
.~;CJive. tiR"/--S' ,,fl. Li' 
'iii~ 
,oltf 
l;. 1.. '\ # c'/5 

VOL XXIII NO. 115 
FRIDAY, MARCH 30. 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student participation in the census is important to city 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Writer 
Sunday, April 1, is the bicen­tennial anniversary of the United States census; census questionnaires will be dis­tributed in the Notre Dame dorms on April 2 through April 19. 
Not everyone will receive the same form, according to Assis­tant Director of Residence Life for Student Affairs Pat Doran. Every sixth student will receive a "long form" and it is very im­portant that these be fill~d out, he said. 
The different forms will have a specific and definite time pe­riod during which they must be completed and turned in, said Doran. 
Doran and John Keane, dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration and ex-director of the Census Bureau, stressed that it is very important for students to fill out these census questionnaires. Students are counted in the census at school, not at home, said Keane. 
If Notre Dame students do not complete the forms it will be detrimental to the entire South Bend community since the number of people in a city determines the amount of money allocated to that area. This money includes federal, state and local funds, Keane said. 
Foreign students should also fill out the questionnaires even if they are not U.S. citizens since the census is an account of the "usual place of resi­dence" of people in the U.S., he said. 
Keane also emphasized that the questionnaire is "absolutely confidential. Neither President Bush, the HUD, nor anyone else can get your questionnaire." 
see CENSUS/ page 4 

Observer file photo 
Springtime is for romance 
A couple enjoys some quite time together near St. Joseph's Lake. The beautiful scenery in the area makes it a perfect place for those who want to spend time alone with somebody they love. 
Kohl asks Poles to admit to injustice to Germans after war 
CAMBRIDGE, England (AP) ­West German Chancellor Hel­mut Kohl asked Poland on Thursday to acknowledge that it inflicted "an injustice" on in­nocent Germans who came un­der Polish rule after World War 
II. 
"We Germans are not entitled to such words, and even less must we try to balance ac­counts in one way or another," Kohl said at a dinner with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. 
The occasion in this English university town marked the 40th anniversary of the Koenigswinter Conference, set up to foster Anglo-German re­lations five years after the Al­lied defeat of Nazi Germany. 
Kohl recalled that one of Va­dav Havel's first acts as presi­dent of Czechoslovakia was to express his country's remorse at the expulsion and persecu­tion of its German population after the war. He suggested Poland could follow Havel's ex­ample. 
Thatcher declared in her own speech that German unification should not weaken security and said that U.S. and British troops and NATO nuclear mis­siles must remain in a united Germany. 
She also unveiled a plan to turn a 35-nation East-West summit this year into a newly enlarged alliance of democra­cies across Europe. 
In the aftermath of World War II, about 13 million Ger­mans were expelled from pre­war German territories that now are part of Poland and Czechoslovakia. 
Germany also became divided into Communist East and capi­talist West Germany, but with the reforms that swept Eastern Europe last fall also came the present drive toward German unification. 
Kohl said Thursday that he had "time and again ... recalled the untold suffering inflicted on the Polish people by Germans" during the Nazi occupation or Poland. 
But, departing from his pre­pared text, Kohl toned down his remarks to refrain from di­rectly accusing Poland of mistreating Germans. 
The prepared text said: 


SMCJunior Mother/Daughter Weekend 
Friday 8-10 p.m. Wine and cheese rect>ption, Hagaar Parlor 
Saturday 
8:30-9 a.m. Aerobics, Angela Athletic Facility 1()-11 a.m. Ann Loux, assistant )Jrofessor of English "Mothers as writers" 
11 :15 a.m. Buses leave for Michigan City Lighthouse MaH 6-7 p.m. Cocktails, South Bend Marriot Hotel 7-7:30 p.m. Welcome 7:30-8:30 p.m. DinMr 8:30-9:30 p.m. Slide Show/Fashion Show 
Sunday 
9:30 a.m. Continental Breakfast, Clubhouse 
10:30 a.m. Mass, Church of Loretto 

Margaret Thatcher 
"It would no doubt be benefi­cial for the relationship be­tween our two people if Poland were to refer with equally clear and noble words, as President Vaclav Havel did for Czechoslo­vakia, to the injustice commit­ted by Poles against innocent Germans." 
When he spoke, Kohl noted that Havel had mentioned "the injustice that was also inflicted on innocent Germans." and said "it would be good" if such words "were also possible now between German and Polish people." 
He said "such a word, such a gesture, would point the way to a future in which the relation­ship between the Polish and German peoples is marked by a spirit of good-neighborliness in a common Europe." 
One-third of Poland was German territory before the war, and Kohl indicated he was not making a Polish apology a condition of honoring his pledge to respect Poland's bor­ders. 
Kohl said a united Germany will enshrine Polish borders in "an internationally binding treaty" with Poland after Ger­man unification. 
He finally made a forthright pledge last month about Poland's borders after months in which his position on the is­sue appeared equivocal. upset Poland and worried officials in other European countries, par­ticularly Britain. 
Kohl said the West German government and the new demo­cratically elected East German government should both quickly issue identical declarations reaffirming the inviolability of the Polish borders. 
"This declaration should unequivocally express the idea that immediately after unifica­tion of the two German states the all-German government and 
Parliament will definitively set­tle the border question along these lines in an internationally binding treaty with the Republic of Poland," he said. 
Days before Kohl's arrival in London, the Polish issue became a source of friction when the Hamburg magazine Der Spiegel said Thatcher claimed Kohl 
was  still  saying  he  did  not  
recognize  Poland's  western  
border.  

A Kohl spokesman denied it, saying the prime minister mis­interpreted Kohl's comments. A Thatcher spokesman would say only that Der Spiegel accurately reported the interview with her. 
Thatcher suggested Thursday that the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) should stipulate conditions for free elections, hold formal meetings of foreign ministers twice yearly and call emergency sessions in times of crisis. The summit is expected to take place this fall. 

Former prime minister of Cuba cal.ls for constitution to guarantee human nghts 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 

Although he does not advo­cate entirely duplicating the constitution, the Constitution of 1940 should be the basis for any code established in Cuba after Castro. said Rogelio de Ia Torre, former chief counsel to the Cuban Prime Minister's Of­fice under Fidel Castro. 
The Constitution of 1940 guaranteed human rights and the dignity of human beings, Torre said yesterday in a lec­ture titled, "The Cuban Consti­tutional Ideal." For example, it included freedom of expres­sion, protection from child ex­ploitation, and prohibition of property confiscation. 
A problem Torre found in the Constitution was its inability to limit the power of the president while making the system actu­ally work. The government of­ficials enforcing the text proved to be more problematit than this deficiency according to Torre. 
"Failing Cuba was the human element, not the text, "he said. 
Torre traced Cuban constitu­tional history to make his basic point that Cubans' desire for a Constitution is not something new. 
"Cubans had a long standin2 love affair with the Constitu­tion,"said Torre. 
Father Felix Varela served as a key figure in the country's ongoing desire for a successful Constitution, Torre said. 
"Varela created and devel­oped the ideas of freedom and independence in the Cuban peo­ple," he said. Varela wrote the first Constitutional Law text­book published in Latin Amer­ica. 
The Platt Amendment to the 1901 Constitution was also dis­cussed by Torre. The amend­ment basically gave the United States power to intervene in 
see CUBA I page 4 

page 2 The Observer Friday, March 30, 1990 
Yesterday's high: 43 
Yesterday's low: 37 
Nation's high: 88 
(Lakeland, Fla.) 
Nation's low: 2 
(Caribou and Houlton, 
Maine) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy and warmer today with a 60 percent chance of light rain. Highs in the middle 50s. Cloudy and warmer tonight and to­morrow with a 70 percent chance of rain and a few thundershowers. Low tonight in the middle 40s. Highs tomorrow around 
60. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Registration still has flaws, despite DART 

It's spring. Almost. Bookstore Basketball is starting, snow has (hopefully) left the forecast, and DART has once again in­vaded our lives. 
I shouldn't complain 

about DART though. Colleen Cronin 

It actually is a good system. No more Accent Editor 
waiting for hours in checkmarking lines, no more of that pre­registration annoyance, and everyone has an equal chance of getting the classes they want. 
Or at least that's how it is supposed to be. 
I am going to be a senior. By now I should be able to get into most of the classes I want. I have gone through three years of al­ternatives, and that is to be expected. But I am almost a senior, have worked (relatively) hard to get to there, and so should be rewarded by finally getting some of my first choices. 
For three semesters I have been trying to get into one of the Fiction Writing courses. I am a concentrating in journalism and this would be of great benefit to me. But no dice. I inquired about the status of the course in the middle of the first DART day and all three sections were closed already. I didn't think that was statistically possible. 
It seems that English majors, and anyone who may have heard through the English grapevine, were able to pre-register for this course (and a few others) at 8 a.m. Monday morning. 
Why? Why didn't anyone else know about this, like American Studies majors who have many English courses open to them for credit towards their major? 
Doesn't this sound like checkmarking, something that DART was supposed to eliminate? Doesn't this sound like a shady deal on behalf of the English department, like some top-secret information that goes out to only English majors and a few other privileged people? 
"English majors should have preference over other majors." That is a valid reason, but if it is a course open for credit to Amer­ican Studies majors, can't the classes be di­vided evenly between the two majors? Or maybe those who were closed out in one semester can have first crack at it for the next semester. There are many viable alter­natives to secret pre-registration at dawn. 
In talking to other students, it is obvious that other departments are at fault for the exact same thing. I can see no reason for there to be this unfairness to the students. Either all departments should go through he registration system in the same manner or trash the whole thing and regress to the checkmarking hell of two years ago. 
Nothing, unfortunately, can be done about this now for the upcoming fall semester. I must stick to my alternative schedule once again. All I can do is cross my fingers and hope that in my very last semester of my college career I can get some of my first­choice classes. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(213)-239·7471  
Today's Staff:  
News  
PeterYob  Production  VIewpoint  
Joe Moody  Chris Labaree  Lisa Eaton  
Janice O'Leary  Kristin Costello  
Kelly Tuthill  Systems  
Mark Sloan  
Mike Muldoon  Ad Design  Tim Quinn  
Kristie Rolke  
Spor1s  Kelly McHugh  Accent  
Chris Cooney  Amy Eckert  Paige A. Smoron  
Quinn Satepauhoodle  Barbara Bryn  


•·,e Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monpay :.gh Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
;,vrver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduct•on :; are reserved. 



page 3

Friday, March 30, 1990 The Observer 
Bush advocates compassion, not discrimination, for AIDS victims 
WASHINGTON (AP) -he said that education is the against AIDS -as a small employees infected with HIV, seat belt. We don't reject the President Bush declared his key to curbing the spread of the fraction of what is needed to the human immunodeficiency cancer patient who didn't quit administration "on a wartime deadly disease. find a cure and to treat victims. virus that causes AIDS. These smoking. We try to love them footing" against AIDS "Every American must learn Bush vowed to press further people, he said, deserve the and care for them and comfort Thursday and called for com-what AIDS is and what AIDS is research at the National same compassion as others them. We do not fire them or passion, not discrimination, not," he said. Institutes of Health in who are sick. evict them or cancel their in-toward people infected with the Bush presented no new policy Bethesda, Md., and the Centers "There is only one way to surance." virus. initiatives, instead spotlighting for Disease Control in Atlanta. deal with an individual who is 
"Our goal is to turn irra-as unprecedented his proposed "We're on a wartime footing sick -with dignity, compas-Bush urged Congress "to get tional fear into rational acts," $3.5 billion in federal spending at NIH and CDC. Tonight, like sion, care, confidentiality and on with the job of passing a he said in his first major presi-on AIDS research, treatment every night, the lights will burn without discrimination," he law" to prohibit discrimination dential address on AIDS. For and education. late in Bethesda and Atlanta, as said. against people infected with Bush, it was an unusually per-AIDS activists dismiss the a group of American pioneers "Once disease strikes, we AIDS or HIV. sonal speech. proposal -although it would work to solve this problem." don't blame those who are sur-"We're in a fight against a 
Addressing the National drastically escalate the federal Bush urged business execu-fering. We don't spurn the ac-disease, not a fight against Leadership Coalition on AIDS, commitment to the fight tives in his audience not to fire cident victim who didn't wear a people," he said. 


Sociology professor spends 18 months with 
By JOHN CRONIN was feeling good," added Me-he added. -NewsWriter Murry, "You can tell a street­Secondly, McMurry thought nick from a straight as far as that the deinstitutionalization After spending eighteen you can see them; just watch of the mentally unbalanced has how they walk." seriously contributed to the in­
months posed as a street per­During one academic year creasing number of homeless.
son, Professor Daniel McMurry and two summers McMurry He said he opposes the releasegave the keynote address at a spent periods of up to eighteen of the vast majority of the men­conference at Notre Dame con­days living on the the streets. tally unstable and stated, "It iscerning the homeless. 
McMurry, a professor of so­He would take breaks to spend these human castoffs who are time with his wife before get­portrayed as the hungry on the
ciology at Middle Tennessee ting back out to the pavement. street, when the reality is thatState University, concentrated "After eighteen days it begins they are incapable of even find­on the daily routine of the many to wear on you. I couldn't tol­ing the end of the food line."
homeless which he followed and 
imitated. From the huddled erate much longer," said Mc­Alcoholism is the third major evenings spent on the tile floor Murry, "If I was going to find problem of street people ac­of the missionary, with the out what street life was really cording to McMurry. moaning and mumbling of the like, not someone else's opinion "Thunderbird" fortified wine at countless other bodies, to the of what It was like, I must fin­$1.25 a pint and twenty percent alcohol is the favorite of the
continual search for a meal. ish what I started." McMurry lived every aspect of McMurry observed the many down and out drunkards. 
problems with the homeless "The problem of the homelessthe down and out. 
"Every time I went out into and determined the three most are almost always a tangle of prevalent causes. Family personal pathology combined
the streets I drifted towards 
and picked up a 'Willy' and I breakup was the number one with fractured relationships. It was 'Willy's' shadow. I tried to cause of homelessness, said is not alcoholism alone or men­
pick someone who was appeal­McMurry. tal illness alone or even poverty ing and non-violent," said Mc­"The dissolution of the family alone that produces homeless­Murry. structure has pathetic conse­ness," he said. 
Never once did anyone sus­quences far beyond our middle 
Photo courtesy of Jack Ross pect him of being an imposter. class comprehension. For these The solution to the problem is Professor Daniel McMurry of Middle Tennessee State University, as "I had to keep reminding myself people family and friends have complex. but essentially it in­he appeared while posing as a street person. He spent 18 months liv­to walk the characteristic always meant not camaraderie volves helping the homeless ing with the homeless to find out firsthand what street life is like. street shuffie, especially when I and friendship, but survival," help themselves, said McMurry. 
DART t

1················································1
•  COURSE EXCHANGE OPTION  DART  CLOSED  COURSES  AS  OF  7:00 P.M.  3/29/90  •  
•  ACCi  231 10 0010  ENGL  485C 01  1208  RLST 200  20 9520  •  
ACCT 231  11 0011  ENGL  4915  01  6540  RLST  200 24  9524  
•  ACCT  231 16 0016  ENGL  492A 01  1210  RLST  200 26  9526  •  
ACCT  475 03  0037  ENGL  495A 01  6541  RLST  200 28 9528  
•  ACCT  475 04  0038  ENGL  495C 01  6542  RLST 213  32 9532  •  
ACCT  476 02  0040  FIN  231 01  1267  RLST  240 38 9538  
•  A new DART Course Exchange Option is now available.  After you have dialed DART,  Accr 479 o1 AERO 444L 01  oo44 0053  FIN FIN  231 o2 U3 01  126& 1299  RLST z4o RLST 240  4o H  954o 9544  •  
+ • • •  you will be able to add one course (call number AAAA) in exchange for another (call number DODD}, even if you have a full course load or the new course has a time conflict 'ith th ld y I h ect' f th DART 'II h kw e o one. au can a so exc ange s 1ons o e same course. w1 c ec to see if the new course is open, that you meet all its requirements, and whether it conflicts with any other course on your schedule. The option works as follows:  AERo 444L o2 AERO 444L 03 AERo 444L o4 AERO 446L 01AERo 446L oz ~g ::~~ ~~ AMST 333 o1 AMST 384 01  oo54 0055 oo56 0059oo6o ~~~~ 6868 0129  oovt 342t o3 GOVT 343 01 oovt 447 01 BISI 305 01aisr 326 01 :~~i !~; ~~ aisr 459 o1 IIPS 410 01  7036 1402 1412 14771482 ~~~~ 6szs 6904  RLsr 24o RLST 251 RLST 312 RLSI 362RLsr 491 ~i ::~ RLsT 491 RLST 491  46 9546 52 9552 o3 9503 04 950454 9554 ;~ :;;~ 57 95s7 58 9558  • •++  
•  AMSI  440 01  0132  liPS 412  01  1584  RLST 491  59 9559  •  
ANTB  388 01  6672  HARK 231  02  1688  RLST  491 60  9560  
• •  The new course does not require permission  BA 362 01 BA 490 01 BLsr 232 o2 BLST 371 01  0332 0339 6661 0501  HARK 231 03 HARK 231 04 HARK 231 o5 HARK 231 06  1689 1690 1691 1692  RLST 491 61 9561 RLST 497 62 9562 RI.Sr 497 64 9564 RLST 497 66 9566  +•  
• • • •  Enter the course you might like to drop (DODD) and the course you might like to add (AAAA) as follows: DDDDAAAA * 0 #. DART will respond with the following message: This call number, DODD, will be dronped from vour fa/1 1990 schedule. This t', I  BLSI H4 01 cBEG 459 oz EE 340L 02 EE 361L o2 ENGL 305B 01 ENGL 306 01 ENGL 3HA o1ENGL 3180 01  6663 o594 0983 1003 1167 6505 65076511  HARK 231 07 HARK 231 o8 HARK 231 09 MUs 2zoo o1 MUS 226 01 PHIL 235 01 PHIL 246 o1PHIL 247 01  1693 1694 1695 2114 2120 2313 23176587  RLST 497 68 9568 RLsT 497 69 9569 RLST 4117 70 9570 RI.Sr 4117 n 9571 RLST 4117 72 9572 SOC 232 02 6685 sTV 247 o1 66o9STV 453 01 6614  • + • •  
• •  call number, AAAA, will be added to your fall1990 schedule. cancel, press ·1·, if you wish to change, press "#".  ff you wish to  ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL  319A o1 319A 02 328 o1 396 01  1174 1175 6512 1188  PHIL zs5 o1 PHIL 265 01 PLS 481 oz PSY 452 01  6588 2327 2s4s 6759  sTV 454 o1 3024 THE0 237 01 3066 THEO 246 o1 6878 THEO 253 01 6799  • •  
•  ENGL  399A 01  6520  PSY  472 01  6760  THEO 260  01  6800  
If you pressed#, and the new course is accessible to you, DART will respond with the  ~:~ :~~  ~~  :;~;  ~i  ~~~  ~: :;~:  •  
•  following statement:  ENGL ENGL  Ho o1 450 01  6529 6530  RLsr RLST  zoo 10 9s1o 200 12 9512  •  
•+  This call number, DODD, has been dropped from your fall 1990 schedule.  ENGL ENGL  453 01 461C 01  6532 6533  RLST RLST  200 14 9514 200 18 9518  +•  
•  This call number, AAAA, has been added to your fall 1990 schedule.  Hiac.  chans••  •  
•  CE  550 01  0578 T B 09:30-10:4~  time chana•  •  
BLST  385C 01  7023  I  B 11:00-12:15 time chana•  
•  ARST  293 01  0220  T B 12:30-03:15 time chana•  
•  The neW COUrSe reQUires permiSSIOn  TBEO 679 01 GOVT 440 01 CBEG 510 01  6817 H W 11:15-12:30 Ume chan!• 6632 is NOT a University elective 5021 has been cancelled  • •  
•  Enter the course you might like to drop (DODD) and the course you might like to add  BIST  307 01  6821 has been cancelled  •  
• •  (AAAA), along NNNNNN #.  with it's permission number (NNNNNN), as DART will respond with the following message:  follows:  DDDDAAAA  •  Addition of courses LAW 620 01 7055 Comparative ConsUtuional Law time to be announced 3.o cr. hrs. LAW students only  • •  
+++  This call number, DODD, will be dropped from your fall 1990 schedule. This call number, AAAA, will be added to your fall1990 schedule. If you wish to cancel, press ·1: if you wish to change, press ·#·.  +++  
• •  If you pressed#, and the new course is accessible to you, DART will respond with the  DART WEEKEND HOURS  +•  
• •+  following statement: This call number, DODD, has been dropped from your fall1990 schedule. This call number, AAAA, has been added to your fall 1990 schedule.  DART will be available between 9:00 a.m., Saturday and 4:00p.m., Sunday  ++  



page 4 The Observer Friday, March 30, 1990 
port of Cuban exiles, said 
C.A.U.S.A. President H.L. Al­

Ban on the Palestinian Cuba Census
berola. According to Albcrola, 

Father Theodore Hesburgh, continued from page 1
continued from page 1 
-University president-emeritus Also, according to a press re­

Press Service is lifted 
Cuba at any moment of turmoil opened Notre Dame up to lease, South Bend residents 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Workers hooked up telexes and cleared away debris in the Palestine Press Service on Thursday after police lifted a two-year closure of the agency that once served as the main source of news on the Palestinian uprising. 
The reopening of the Arab­run service was one of the first casings of the tough restric­tions that Israel imposed on Palestinian journalists at the height of the uprising. 
Yossi Olmert, head of Israel's Government Press Office, said there was decreased interna­tional interest in the 27 -month revolt, so authorities adopted a more liberal attitude. 
"The uprising is declining, and some of the pressure is off," Olmert told The Associ­ated Press. "We can live with the press and the uprising at the same time." 
Arab newspapers still must submit all articles to the Israeli military censor. The army also continues to block foreign journalists from entering trou­ble spots by declaring them closed military areas. 
Two weeks ago, the army gave a hint of easing restric­tions when its spokesman's of­fice issued a directive ordering its employees to respond to queries by Arab journalists. 
Such a practice was unthink-
Albums will be labeled 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Six major record companies plan to create an album labeling sys­tem so retailers and purchasers can identify explicit recordings. 
The label-reading "Parental 
advisory, explicit lyrics" ­
does not mean that the music 
industry is buckling to pressure 
groups complaining about sex­
ual and violent songs, officials 
said at a recent convention here 
of the National Association of 
Recording Industry Merchan­
disers (NARIM). 
"This will absolutely remain a 
voluntary decision to be deter­
mined solely by the label,'' said 
Trish Heimers, vice president of 
the Recording Industry Associ­
ation of America. 
More than a dozen states are 
considering record censorship 
bills, said executives at the 
NARIM meeting. 
The labeling decision may not 
solve the controversy, some re­
tailers said, adding they were 
fearful that legislation won't be 
derailed. 
"This legislation will put an 
impossible burden on us, and 
the record manufacturers have 
ducked the problem," said 
Stanley Gold of Shamrock 
Holdings, which owns Music 
Plus stores. 
Express Press, 
CF I'OANA NCC"IFPOAATED., r------___,c
IQUAUTY PAINTING I 
325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BENO [219] 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STHEET • Nll£S 61 6 684-2080 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYUNG FOR 
ME~•.
.6 ~OMEN 
. . I -. 
I . 
\ 
I 
531 N. Michigan St. 
able early in the uprising, when Palestinian journalists often put the spokesman's office on the. defensive with up-to-the­minute reports of troops firing on Palestinian stone-throwers. 
At the time, the Palestine Press Service was the main liai­son between Palestinians and the foreign press. It distributed information from a network of dozens of stringers, accompa­nying foreign journalists to trouble spots and providing translation services. 
"In the beginning of the uprising, hundreds of iournal­ists would come here. We were the main source of informa­tion," said the agency's co­owner, Ibrahim Karaeen, speaking in his office in Israeli­annexed Arab east Jerusalem. 
On March 30, 1988, four months into the uprising, police ordered the agency closed. Karaeen said army officials told him the office was shut be­cause of suspicions it was funded by Yasser Arafat's PLO. 
For the next two years, the four-room office stood vacant, its door sealed by a police lock. Pigeons sneaked through an open window, leaving behind piles of droppings and three nests of eggs on a table in Karaeen's corner office. 
Karaeen said he was given no explanation why the ban was lifted. 

in the country. According to Torre, "we were all the time complaining about the Platt Amendment." In 1933, this amendment was eliminated. 
When Fidel Castro came to power in 1959, work on a new constitution began. Although based on its 1940 predecessor, the new constitution eliminated the word "God" from the preamble. Cubans complained a lot about this, and Torre said it caused the first suspicion that something was not going very well with Castro. 
Eventually, Castro drafted an entirely different socialist con­stitution. 
"They now control the life of Cuban people to the most minute detail,"said Torre, "To me, there is no legality to any­thing they are doing." 
The newly formed Cuban American Union of Student Ad­vocates (C.A.U.S.A.) sponsored the lecture. Currently, Torre is the assistant chairman of the School of Arts and Sciences at Indiana University at South Bend. C.A.U.S.A. formed this year after some Notre Dame Law students realized there were a number of Cuban Amer­icans in the Notre Dame com­munity. 
"We believe Notre Dame is an ideal staging ground for our activity because of Notre Dame's history for strong sup~ 
Happy 20th Laura X 
X X 
X 
X 

Loue, X X 
Mom & Dad X X 
X Stephen, Paula and Teresa X X 
X 
X 
X 
X X 
X X X X X 
X 
X X X 

k T_h_e_G_r_a_d_u_a_t_e_S_t_u_d_e_n_t_U_n_i_o_n 
is currently looking for interested graduate, law, and MBA students or spouses to fill the following position: 
GRAD CLUB MANAGER 
Applications, job description, and stipend information are available in the GSU Office 
(307  LaFortune)  Tuesday  thru  Friday  
between  II :30  am  and  I :30  pm.  
Deadline  for  applications  is  April  6.  

Cuban youths in exile. Alberola said he believes the Catholic Church will play a key role in the democratization of Cuba. 
C.A.U.S.A. will continue working on many projects for next year, Alberola said. These projects include an interna­tiona! conference on Cuban constitutionalism, the Father Felix Varela Lecture Series on Cuban constitutionalism, and a Law School workshop series. 
who need help filling out the census forms due to illiteracy will receive help from the Indi­ana Complete Census Count Committee. 
They will be "providing a free telephone help line, walk-in help centers and follow-up visits from census representatives,'' said Judy Peak, the coordinator for the group. 
The number for the help line is 1-800-999-1990. 


Happy 19th BO KURTZIII 
We Love You, 
Bird, Leedle, Liacombe, and Jock 
n.TTENTION: 
Grad Students 
Professors 
Employees 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


2909 Sug.u o\'\.\p~ Nonh South &:-ru;1 lnOi.uld 46228 

219. 111. 3731 @ 
1 

'.--··-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii­
ttlJkoago HairCutting~J 
1V1[ • 
• II
. 

M • • HI M • 
• H M •.lA • • • H 


PE LE 
INCLUDES PRECISION CUT It SHAMPOO 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTVAE .
REDKEN 

GflAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
PROFESSIONAL HOURS: Daily 9-8
277-79-40
PRODUCTS Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 
• Haor longer 1han shoulder lenglh $10 --.... OCopyngll c:J Chicago Hair CtAIIng Co. 1990




Friday, March 30, 1990 The Observer pageS 
Senate refuses aid to coal miners despite long debate 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate by a razor-thin margin turned back pleas for special aid to coal miners Thursday, rejecting a measure Senate leaders and the White House said could have jeopardized broader clean air legislation. 
The $500 million assistance amendment was voted down 50 to 49 after five hours of debate during which supporters ar­gued the miners needed help because they would be adversely affected by tougher air pollution controls. 
The measure was seen as the biggest remaining obstacle to passage of major air pollution control legislation that is scheduled for a final vote next Tuesday. A similar bill is pend­ing in a House committee. 
The government has esti­mated more than 5,000 miners of high-sulfur coal are likely to Jose their jobs as Midwest utili­ties switch to other fuels to meet new pollution re uin~­

Child-care bill rejected 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The House rejected the White House's version of major child-care legislation Thurs­day in a vote that cleared the way for a more ambitious Democratic plan. 
The House defeated the conservative alternative on child care on a largely party line vote, 225-195, before turning to the competing and more expensive plan to help families find and afford day care. 
The vote came despite a re­newed threat of a veto from presidential spokesman 

Week-end Liturgies at Stepan Center: Saturday, March 31 
5:00 PM Rev. James King, C. S.C., presider 
Sunday, April1, 1990 

10:00 AM Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., presider Notre Dame Chapel Choir 
11 :45 AM Rev. David Tyson, C.S.C., presider Notre Dame Folk Choir 

HAPPY B I RTHDA 


SRRRH 
Shene 
Alison 
Terre 
Kelly 
Pem Mery 
Anne 



,~ ~

" , , , "' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
, 
, 
,
' 
,
' 
,
' 
,

' ' BEAUX ART8 BALL 
,
' 
,
' 
,

' with TI1E ·cROOvE· 
,
' 
,

' ~ATIJRDAY, MARCH 31 
,
' 
,

' 9:00 pm -'2:00 am 
,
' 
,
' 
,

' -UNDEQGQOUND­
,
' 
,
' 
,

WEAR 1\ COSTUME!!!
' 
,
' 
,
' 
,
' 
,

' TICKIT~ AVAI.LABLE AT LL\fOQTIJNE 
,
' 
,

' $6.00 
,
' 

', , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ',' , , , , 
, 
Marlin Fitzwater. The House first turned back amend­ments aimed at limiting fed­eral aid for church-run day care centers. 
The vote followed eight hours of sometimes emo­tional debate that masked the fact that there was actu· ally bipartisan agreement on major portions of the com­peting versions. 
"What we're talking about here may be the most impor­tant issue we're going to deal with this year." said Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo. 
ments in the coming years. 
The narrow vote was a vic­tory for Senate leaders of both parties -George Mitchell, D­Maine, and Bob Dole, R-Kan. ­as well as the Bush administra­tion which had opposed the as­sistance proposal as too expen­sive and discriminatory against other workers. 
The White House had threat­ened to withdraw support from any bill that exceeded the cur­rent estimated $21 billion-a­year cost, and Mitchell said the amendment pressed by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., prob­ably would have pushed the to­tal beyond that level. 
The vote came after days of intense lobbying from both sides, including last minute telephone calls from the White House to key senators -some calls coming even as the vote was under way. Byrd, whose power as chairman of the Ap­propriations Committee is widely respected, had visited dozens of senators in search of support. 
He got the votes of 38 of the Senate's 55 Democrats and 11 of its 45 Republicans. 
Byrd said later that under in­tense White House pressure "three of my votes took wings." Among those voting with Byrd was Sen. Spark Matsunaga, D­Hawaii, who suffers from cancer and was brought into the chamber in a wheelchair. 
Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., said he voted against the pro­posal in the last minutes after a telephone call from White House Chief of Staff John Su­nunu, who told him President Bush would veto the clean air bill if the assistance proposal were included. 
Senate leaders also had feared that if the measure were approved other senators would seek similar financial aid for workers in other industries. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Tex., promised to do just that. 

Amnesty for Lithuanian deserters who return is possible step toward compromise 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­The Soviet army offered amnesty Thursday to Lithua­nian deserters who return to their units in what appeared to be a first step toward compro­mise in the crisis over Lithua­nia's independence drive. 
The decision announced by the Defense Ministry General Staff came a day after Lithua­nia offered two compromises: it suspended a plan to institute its own border guard, and it told citizens not to resist Soviet at­tempts to seize their firearms. 
Both sides seemed to be yielding in the war of wills over Lithuania's March 11 declara­tion of independence, the strongest defiance of Mikhail Gorbachev in his five years as Soviet leader. 
"I think Lithuania is seeking a way out, and I think Gor­bachev is seeking a way out," said Algirdas Brazauskas, head of the Lithuanian Communist Party, which split with Moscow in December. 
But the war of words did not die down entirely. 
Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis, asked about the Defense Ministry's offer, said: "I don't have much trust in this promise. There have been instances where very high 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

'YAL.L
Lunches starting at_____ Dinners starting at_____ Bar &Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.. Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. · Sat. 11 :30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Way S., South Bend (next to Randall'& lnnl 

' : . • • 
.............. 
COLLEG~~ 
GRADUATE 
FINANCE 
PLAN 

Jordan's Auto Mall 

YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
609 E. Jefferson 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
"This amendment discrimi­nates against all workers who are not coal miners," declared Mitchell minutes before the vote. 
Mitchell and other senators said thousands of workers in other fields, including the steel and petrochemical industries, also could suffer job losses and would not have such benefits. 
Byrd, who has been a staunch advocate for miners for years, argued that the issue was a matter of "fairness .. . and jus­tice" because of the severe im­pact that new acid rain controls would have on Midwest utilities and, in turn, on miners in high­sulfur coal fields. 
The main clean air bill, which is scheduled for a vote in the Senate next week, calls for sweeping pollution controls on industry, automobiles and util­ity plants. 
New controls on sulfur diox­
military officials have lied." 
Lithuanian leaders are angry that the military said nothing before arresting 23 deserters Tuesday. They said the military had agreed to discuss any such move in advance. 
Defense Ministry officials told Tass that Lithuanians who left the Soviet armed forces when their republic declared inde­pendence would not be punished if they resumed their military service. 
However, those who continue to hide will be "searched out, detained and be subject to criminal punishment in accor­dance with current law," they said. 
Red Army soldiers on Tuesday stormed two psychiatric hospitals in Lithuania to ap­prehend deserters. Witnesses said some of the deserters and a policeman who tried to stop the detentions were beaten. 
The Lithuanian prosecutor's office said Thursday it had opened a criminal investigation into the beating of the police officer. The republic's Interior Ministry said the policeman sustained a concussion. 
Lt. Gen. Frants Markovsky of the military General Staff told Tass a special military commis­sion had been set up to track 
Chinese-AmeriCin Restaurant & Cocktail Lounce 
ide emissions from Midwest electric power plants -an ef­fort to combat acid rain -are expected to cause utilities to shift away from high-sulfur coal to cleaner fuels, causing mines in Appalachia and the Midwest to close and miners to lose their jobs. 
Calling on senators to "hear the cries of people" and re­spond to them, Byrd said help for the miners is no different that the federal assistance given to victims of a hurricane or earthquake, who suffer be­cause of no fault of their own. 
"We're not asking for wel­fare," he declared. 
For nearly two weeks, Byrd, a former Senate majority leader who still wields considerable power as chairman of the Sen­ate Appropriations Committee, has cajoled, pressured and pleaded with senators to line up in support of his proposal. 
down deserters. 
Soviet officers visited the families of 97 soldiers who de­serted, and in 40 cases were told the soldiers would return, Markovsky told Tass. In 42 other cases, parents said they were willing to help the military but did not know where their sons were, Markovsky said. 
"No reasoning and appeals for common sense and for parental wisdom, however, worked with the parents of the other 15 deserters," he said. 
Markovsky said 51 soldiers already had returned to their units. 
Soviet officials estimate 250 Lithuanian soldiers have de­serted. Lithuanian figures put the number at about 900. 
Wednesday was the deadline for Lithuanians to comply with Gorbachev's order issued last week to turn in their firearms or have them seized. 
Deputy Interior Minister Va­clavas Zabarauskas said Thursday that only 1,500 of the 30,000 registered guns had been turned in. Local officials have said they will not cooper­ate with Moscow to collect them. 


FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"At'!' you OK to drit~'r "Wiwti! a .few beet"N!" 
"Did you ltat'C' too mm·h to clriuk!" ·r, JX't.t'ectly.fiue." 
"Are !JOII iu auy .~/tape to dt"i.t't'!" "/'tl(' lll't'('l'.fi'fl bettet:" 
"[ t/ii11k !JOII 0I'C' /tad ct.f('ll' too lllaii!J." "Yim kiddiu, I cau dtive with '"!I eye.HIIA~ed." 
"Yim've !tad too much to d1iuk, Jet me drive." 
DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KI.L A fRIEN)5HIB 

page 6 The Observer 

Idaho governor expresses doubt about prudence of supporting state abortion law 
BOISE, Idaho (API-Gov. Ce­cil Andrus on Thursday ex­pressed his first public doubts about signing what would be the nation's most restrictive state abortion law. 
"I am concerned that this bill may narrow it to the point where a woman who has suf­fered rape, who has suffered incest or the mother's life is in danger might not be able to re­ceive an abortion," Andrus said at an impromptu news confer­ence. 
''I'm looking at that," he said. ''I'm agonizing over it." 
But the Democratic governor quickly cautioned against in­terpreting his remarks to mean he has decided to veto the bill. 
"Don't read anything into it," Andrus said. "My views being pro-life haven't changed.... But I am concerned about the bill." 
Pro-choice forces, meanwhile, staged another rally on the Capitol steps, dumping 10,000 potatoes in a show of support 
Special to The Observer 
Karamjit Rai, professor of biological sciences at Notre Dame, has been awarded the Ernest Oppenheimer Memorial Trust W.O. Wilson Visiting Fel­lowship in South Africa for 1990. 
Rai, a specialist in mosquito genetics, will visit South Africa 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
• SOCIETY.
+ 
Sutnnt<'l' Jot.< Over 50.000 summer job openings at Re10rts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Businesses. Cruise Lones. Rancnos. and mora in the U.S.. Ca,_. Australia. and 20 other coumnes. Comple• diraotory only St9.95. Don1 wait till alter tinall. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Springs. CO 80937 
for the campaign to launch a national boycott of Idaho's biggest cash crop should the bill become law. 
To counter that threat sym­bolic-ally Thursday, Wisconsin Right to Life Inc. delivered a half ton of potatoes to the Sal­vation Army office in Milwau­kee. And a group called Con­cerned Women for America, which claims 600,000 members, said it will increase potato pur­chases to offset any boycott by the National Organization for Women. 
"This is a long-term com­mitment," said Beverly LaHaye, president of Concerned Women. "Our membership ... is commit­ted to this cause out of respect for the courageous men and women in the Idaho Legisla­ture." 
A day earlier, the governor said business leaders in key Idaho industries told him they were already losing sales be­cause of the evolving boycott. 

But while expressing concern, he said economic considera­tions would not be the crucial factor in his decision. 
Later in the day, a major buyer of Idaho potatoes, Mc­Donald's Corp., said it had no plans to participate in any boy­cott over the abortion contro­versy. 
Andrus promised earlier in the week he would act by Sat­urday on the legislation that would ban abortion as a method of birth control. Both sides in the debate agree it would make more than 90 per­cent of the abortions performed in Idaho illegal. If signed, it would take effect Julv 1. 
The bill makes abortion ille­gal except in cases of non­statutory rape reported within 
seven days, incest if the victim is under age 18, severe fetal de­
formity or a threat to 
mother's life or physical health. 




ND professor will go to South Africa to study mosquito genetics 

Institute for Disease in the Tropical Environment, and the Tropical Diseases Research In­stitute at Tzaneen, all of which have a strong mosquito re­search component associated with them. 
He also will deliver the keynote lecture at the Biannual Congress of the South African Genetics Society. 
Friday, March 30, 1990 


Pro-choice advocates like those pictured here hope that a bill passed recently by the Idaho State Legislature will be signed into law by the 


now hos o wide selection of 




EASTER CARDS 
Get your Mother's Doy ond Groduotion Cords eorly, too. 
Basement of LaFortune Student Center 12:30-5:30 • Mon -Sat 
We deliver daily to NO, SMC and Holy Cross 


Friday, March 30, 1990 The Observer 
THE ENVIRONMENT IS
WARNING: 
DANGEROUS TO YOUR HEALTH 
"CONSPIRACY AGAINST AMERl:CA: 
TOXIC WASTE' 
Lecture by investigative journalist Karl Grossman Monday, April 2 8 pm, Library Auditorium 
"SOVIET CATASTROPHE: DEATH OF THE ARAL SEA" 

Lecture by Philip Micklin, Professor of Geology at Western Michigan 
You can make a difference!
Thursday, April 5 
7:30 pm, Niewland Science Building, Rm.127 
"IN DEFENSE OF THE WILD" Lecture by eco-warrior Dave Foreman, founder of 
the radical Earth First! Wednesday, April 4 8 pm, Cushing Auditorium 
Attempt to smuggle nuclear devices into Iraq discovered 
LONDON (AP) -Customs of­ficials said Wednesday they foiled an attPmpt to supply Iraq with 40 American-made devices for triggering nuclear weapons, and they arrested five people after an 18-month investigation by U.S. and British authorities. 
The probe climaxed in a freight shed at London's Heathrow Airport as an at­tempt was made to put the de­vices -which may have been dummies -aboard an Iraqi Airways flight to Baghdad, British customs officials said. 
Of those arrested in and around London, one was an Iraqi national who was imme­diately served with a deporta­tion order. authorities said. Iraqi diplomats in London re­fused to comment on the affair. 
In Washington, the U.S. Cus­toms Service said sealed in­dictments had been returned at a U.S. District Court in San Diego. 
Customs officials in London, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the devices were capacitors, electrical components of the detonation chain of a nuclear bomb. 
Defense experts said it demonstrated Iraq's determi­nation to become a nuclear power, even at the risk of being caught violating Western bans on the export of strategic high technology. 
"There are only a very few countries in the world capable of manufacturing this type of technology, and there is no other use for a nuclear trigger­ing device than to trigger a nu­clear weapon," said Tony 
Banks, a Middle East expert at described as a secret Iraqi nu-
the respected Jane's Defense Weekly. 
White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said: "This issue raises once again our concern for the nuclear proliferation in the Middle East. It continues to pose a serious risk to U.S. in­terests, and it continues to ex­acerbate regional problems." 
There were indications the devices deposited at Heathrow were dummies. substituted· for the real hardware as part of the U.S. Customs investigation. 
British Broadcasting Corp. TV said customs officers made the switch after the packages arrived from the United States this week. Channel 4 TV News carried an interview with the manufacturer of the so-called Krytrons, who said his com­pany turned over dummies to 
U.S. Customs late last year. 
"We provided about 40 de­vices ... to the Customs Service and they were deliberately made to be inoperative," said Don Kerr, president of EG & G in Wellesley, Mass. 
He indicated he did not know whether these were the devices that reached London. 
The Iraqi, arrested along with three Britons and a Le­banese, was ordered deported because of "attempted breaches of legislation govern­ing the export of strategic goods from the United King­dom," the Home Office said. 
BBC-TV showed footage of the operation which it said was shot by an NBC crew that was in on the investigation. 
NBC reported that Scotland Yard detectives raided the headquarters "of what is being 
0 Declared nuclear weapon nations. § Have taken steps since 1900 to 
•Not a party to the Nu~ar Non·Promerallon Treaty that requires all installations In a Signatory country to be placed under tnternalional Atomfc Energy Agency inspection. 
··s. Korea took steps to develop weapons during the 1970's. but has stopped. 
Source: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 
clear procurement network," and removed documents and other evidence. 
It quoted authorities as say­ing that "the man at the top of the Iraqi operations is Ali Daghir, who was sent to Lon­don from Baghdad almost two years ago." 
Daghir was arrested at his office shortly after the Iraqi flight took off, NBC said. 
British officials declined to name any of those detained or make any formal statements directly confirming the affair. 
"They're sensitive about Iraq and the number of British citi­
develop or acquire weapons and appear motivated. 
0 Necessary technology exists but not the intent to 
develop nuclear weapons. 
EUROPE 
(NORWAY, SWEDEN, FINlAND, DENMARK, NEtHERlANDS, BELGIUM, 
W. GERMANY. E. GERMANY, POtANO, CZECHOSLOVAKIA, SWITZERLAND, AuSTRIA, SPAIN; !TALY, HUNGARY, YUGOSLAVIA) 
zens there," U.S. Customs­spokesman Ed Kittredge said. He mentioned Iraq's execution March 15 of Farzad Bazoft, an Iranian-born reporter who was working for a British newspa­per. 
Iraq accused Bazoft of spy­ing. Britain reacted by with­drawing its ambassador from Iraq and expelling some Iraqis, but it has been reluctant to let relations with Baghdad worsen further. More than 10,000 Bri­tons work in Iraq. 
The Foreign Office summoned the Iraqi ambassador to inform him of the expulsion but re-
APrT. Dean Caple 
fused to link the action to the alleged smuggling operation. 
Military experts said the de­vices are available only to a handful of major powers, and their export is strictly con­trolled. They recalled two pre­vious smuggling attempts, one involving Israel and the other Pakistan, both of which have nuclear weapons ambitions. 
Iraqi President Saddam Hus­sein is known to harbor ambi­tions of eclipsing Egypt and Syria as the premier military power of the Arab world. 
page 8 The Observer Friday, March 30, 1990 
Study shows no evidence of a cancer and Agent Orange link 
A • LANTA (AP) -A long­Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.D., a history, and secondly to ascer­awaited government study of member of the Senate Veterans tain the likelihood of expo­cancer among Vietnam veterans Affairs Committee, said: "This sure," Hoffman said. found no evidence linking the action has been a long time The study, conducted over disease with exposure to the coming. However, it is not the five years, surveyed 2,067 herbicide Agent Orange, offi­final word. We cannot forget cancer patients who were of cials said Thursday. the many other veterans who approximate Vietnam service 
The study by the U.S. Centers are also suffering and dying age -between 15 and 39 in for Disease Control (CDC), from Agent Orange-related dis­1968, at the height of U.S. which looked only indirectly at eases and who have just as troop involvement. They were Agent Orange, did find veterans much evidence supporting their compared to 1,776 men of simi­at increased risk of a relatively claims." lar age who had no history of rare cancer called non­Agent Orange, sprayed by the cancer. Hodgkin's lymphoma. But re­U.S. military to remove jungle Both groups were studied for searchers noted the risk was cover and crops in Vietnam, risk of six kinds of cancer, in­greater among veterans who contained dioxin, a highly toxic cluding soft tissue cancer and served on ships than those who chemical which some studies similar sarcomas, a group of served on land, where the her­have found to increase cancer cancers that the CDC concedes bicide was used. risks. has been "of great concern 
In Washington, Veterans Sec­Criticism of the study focused among Vietnam veterans." retary Edward Derwinski on its methods, which involved Vietnam vets were found to quickly said he would order the comparing cancer patients of have a roughly 50 percent in­Department of Veterans Affairs Vietnam-veteran age to healthy creased risk for non-Hodgkin's to pay disability compensation counterparts. lymphoma. to vets suffering from non­The study "only indirectly "The study did not find any Hodgkin's lymphoma. evaluated" Agent Orange expo­evidence that the increased risk 
The study was immediately sure, because of the technical might be due to Agent Orange attacked by veterans groups, difficulties in determining two exposure," said CDC Director which complained it failed to decades later how much a pa­William Roper. sufficiently examine the cancer tient may have been exposed to That conclusion, the CDC risks among the thousands of the herbicide, the CDC said. said, came in part because the soldiers who actually worked Specific analysis of dioxin ex­cancer risk among Vietnam with the dangerous herbicide posure was impractical, partly veterans "seemed to be the op­during the war. because researchers don't posite of the pattern for use of 
"It is not an Agent Orange know how cancer may skew the Agent Orange." study," objected Mary Stout, results of blood tests for dioxin Vets from the Navy's ocean president of the Vietnam Veter­levels, said Daniel Hoffman, as­ships had somewhat higher others, the CDC said. nam vets overall is about 1.5 ans of America. sistant director for science at cancer risks than those who Specifically, the yearly risk of per 10,000, Roper said. 
"This is only a look at Viet­the CDC's Center for Environ­served on land. And veterans non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is nam veterans" who had cancer, mental Health. from the region of heaviest about one in 10,000 for men The risk nearly doubled -90 added John Hansen, spokesman "Our study was designed to Agent Orange use were at 35-59, the age group of most percent higher-for Navy vet­
for the American Legion. look at Vietnam experience and "somewhat lower risk" than Vietnam vets. The risk for Viet-erans stationed on ocean ships.
• 
National life-expectancy reaches a record high of 75, researchers say 
ATLANTA (AP) -The na­and the life expectancy for -the highest number ever, as percent, and septicemia, or due to HIV infection, or the tion's death rate has dipped to blacks was 69.4 years, same as the nation's population has blood infections, up 4.7 percent. AIDS virus, because of 1987 an all-time low, and life ex­the year before. grown. The largest racial difference coding changes in the mortality pectancy has reached a record Overall, Americans can now in death rates was for death by study, the CDC said. 75 years, federal health re­expect to live about 12 years The decline in the overall rate homicide; the black homicide But CDC surveillance data for searchers reported Thursday. longer than they could expect came as fatality rates dropped rate in 1987 was six times AIDS reported a 32 percent in­
According to 1987 mortality 50 years ago; the life ex­for 13 of the 15 leading causes higher than that for whites, the crease in deaths between 1986 data, overall life expectancy pectancy in 1940 was 62.9. of death, including the big four: CDC reported. and 1987. and "mortality from was up by 0.2 year-or about Women, on average, outlive heart disease, cancer, stroke AIDS appears to be increasing 73 days -from the record set men by 6.9 years. and unintentional injuries. Overall, annual black death more rapidly than mortality in 1986, said Ken Kochanek, a The death rate from heart rates were 50 percent higher from other conditions," the At-statistician with the Center for The nation's mortality rate in disease, the nation's leading than for whites. lanta-based agency said. Disease Control (CDC)'s Na­1987 -the latest year for killer., dropped 3.1 percent. The AIDS replaced birth defects tional Center for Health Statis­which analysis is available -rate wr cancer fell 0.2 percent, Year-by-year comparisons as the 15th leading cause of 
fell to a record low of 535.5 the rate for stroke and cere-were not available for deaths death.
tics in Hyattsville, Md. deaths per 100,000 Americans. brovascular disease fell 2._3~////////////////////////////////////~That means that someone That's down one percent from percent, and the rate for acci-1.: HfiPPY 21 t <t;. % 
born in 1987 would live, on the the record set in 1986, and dents dropped 1.7 percent. ~ S • ,, % average, 75 years. The life ex­down seven percent from 1979. Among the 15 leading causes% % pectancy for whites was 75.6 A total of 2,123,323 U.S. of death, the only increases% ~ years-up slightly from '86-deaths were reported in 1987 were among diabetes, up 2.1~ MEGAN % 
~ NOONE! ~ ~ % 
~ Bark like ~ ~ the dog ~ ~ thatyou ~ ~ are! ~ 
~ ' y ~ 
"//////////////////;_;////////////////)h 
GETACTIVE!! 

RECYCLE 
NOTRE DAME 
ll?,,ill I{Vfil 
a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
f Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass 
For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 

m 
:lgy•r§ Milling lynshll 
Fri Nite -Live 
SMOKE Taxi 

::::» 
AMERICAN Long Islanders Welcome 
I~ ...I
CANCER 
Sat Nite Guest DJ
zo
SOCIE1Y. 
~­3~ 
-~o 
Norris Harding 
c(<n 
&4el4tt~
:IHl. e..-U4 ..~­
tU __., 
r 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
' 


~ 
Friday, March 30, 1990 page 9
The Observer 
New Romanian regime accused of similarity to rule of Ceausescu 
GENEVA (AP) -The Rev. Laszlo Toekes, an ethnic Hun­garian whose resistance ignited Romania's December revolu­tion, accused the new regime Thursday of abuses reminiscent of ousted Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. 
Toekes, 37, an outspoken Ceausescu critic, has been elected bishop in the Reformed Church. An announcement Thursday by state Bucharest radio said he will serve in the northwestern city of Oradea, near the Hungarian border. 
In comments Thursday in Geneva. Toekes said extreme nationalist Romanian groups were to blame for deadly clashes between ethnic Hungar­ians and Romanians last week in Tirgu Mures, a Transylvania city about 250 miles northwest of Bucharest. 
Toekes, who was traveling in the United States during the ethnic unrest, accused the in­terim Romanian government of failing to intervene and of spreading "false information" that ethnic Hungarians ro­voked the clashes. 
He questioned the value of a proposed official inquiry, say­ing authorities blamed the Hungarian population from the outset. 
Many Romanians believe eth­nic Hungarians in Transylvania want to secede and join Hun­gary. The ethnic Hungarians say they only want more cul­tural autonomy. Last week's unrest in Tirgu Mures report­edly killed six people and left 300 injured. 
In a statement distributed to a meeting at the Geneva-based World Council of Churches, Toekes said "misinformation" from the interim government and the Romanian media "reminds one of the practices of the Ceausescu-era." 
"Ceausescu argued in the same way, in keeping with his long-standing policy of dividing the nationalities and playing ... the Hungarian minority, as if the 'Jews' of the country, against the Romanian nation," he said. 
Ceaucescu was executed dur­
"MyMacintOOwon'thelpme~ct myfuture. Butit'sgoingtohdpmesha~ k" 
Matt Kosterman Third Year Economics Major, t;niver.iity ofWISCOnsin, Madison President, Solutions Marketing (a rnarlceting consulting finn) 

Idon't know where I'll be in five years. But if I'm in the business world, Iknow I'll have my Apple® Macintosh® computer with me. I've seen people in business change their attitudes about computers the minute they get their hands on a Macintosh. They get this look on their faces like, 
ing the revolution, which broke out in the western city of Timisoara when demonstrators tried to evict Toekes from his church. 
Toekes had run afoul of au­thorities by championing Hun­garian rights. After the out­break of the revolution, Ceaus­escu loyalists tried to assassi­nate Toekes, but he escaped without injury. 
In his statement Thursday, he said allegations that ethnic Hungarians in Transylvania want unification with neighbor­ing Hungary are unfounded and intended to incite hatred. 
"What happened in Tirgu Mures was something like a pogrom; its perpetrators came exclusively from among Roma­nians stirred up in the spirit of Ceausescuism...." he said. . 
At a press conference in Thursday in Geneva, Toekes said former Reform Church leaders had collaborated with Ceausescu and his hated secret police. 


"Now Iget it. That's what computers are for." 
Ithink that's what attracted me to a Macintosh in the first place. It lets you take control. You start out working the way you want to work. And it just keeps getting better. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 


The Observer/Steve Moskop
Open courts 
These basketball courts, located behind the bookstore and next to Walsh Hall, were used in the original bookstore basketball tournament. This year's tournament will pit 703 teams against each other. 
Deadliest Navy missile deployed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Navy's newest and deadliest missile -the Trident 2 -has passed all its tests and has been deployed aboard the sub­marine USS Tennessee, the Navy said Thursday. 
The Trident 2 is considered by experts to be the nation's most accurate ballistic missile. 
"This marks the start of an era," said Navy spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Craig Quigley. "This mis­sile will serve as one-third of the nation's strategic triad for many years to come." 
The program encountered problems last year after two of the first three submarine-launched missiles self-destruc­ted. The program was declared on track in January after a $125 million fix of the missile's nozzle system. 
The program, which has cost $35 billion to date, "was deliv­ered two years early and was 12 percent below the budget originally provided," the Navy boasted. 
On Thursday, the program formally achieved what is called the Initial Operational Capability. That marks the end of its land-based and subma­rine-based flight tests, as well as all readiness checks for mis­siles, crew and equipment aboard the Tennessee, the statement said. 
That means, said Navy spokesman Cmdr. Craig Quigley, "that it is declared ready for use." 
Quigley declined to confirm whether the Tennessee had put to sea for its first operational patrol from its base at King's Bay, Ga. A military source, however, confirmed that the submarine had done so early Thursday. 
"It went out around 7:30 a.m.," said the source, who spoke on the condition he not be named. 
Friday, March 30,1990 
Greyhound and union will return to bargaining table 
DALLAS (AP) -Four weeks 
into a violent strike by its bus 
drivers, Greyhound Lines Inc. 
says it is losing hundreds of 
thousands of dollars a day but 
considers the walkout effec­
tively finished in much of the 
country. 
Nevertheless, the company 
and union agreed Thursday to 
return to the bargaining table 
next week, said Bernard 
DeLury, head of the Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Ser­
vice. 
The agency did not say why 
talks were resuming, and com­
pany and union officials were 
not immediately available. 
Greyhound said it plans an expansion Sunday that will put it at 54.1 percent of its total pre-strike miles, adding 112 round trips that will increase service to some cities and add 50 destinations. 
But President Frank Schmieder also says Greyhound has no near-term plans to add some 205,000 unprofitable miles that constitute about 32 percent of the total Greyhound system. 
The decision could leave nu­merous areas without any in­tercity bus transportation, although Greyhound spokeswoman Elizabeth Hale said Thursday the company would attempt to subcontract some of the routes. 
"In no way are we abandon­ing that 32 percent forever," she said. 
Greyhound is the only nation­wide bus company, serving about 9,500 pre-strike destina­tions. In about 9,000 of those areas, the company provides the only intercity transporta­
tion. 
The strike began March 2 when Greyhound and the Amal­gamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions failed to reach agreement on a new, three-year contract. Negotiations resumed briefly, but broke off amid company complaints the union was doing little to discourage violence against its buses. 
There have been more than 
200 incidents of violence, the 
company says, including 25 
shootings, 69 bomb threats and 
more than 100 less serious at­
tacks. 
The union has said it opposes 
the violence and has called for 
prosecution of law breakers. 
Schmieder said Greyhound would like to end the "open warfare" with the union, but contended "we're beginning to have plenty of drivers. ... In certain areas, yes, it's over." 
"Essentially through the Southeast and Southwest, I think it's over," Schmieder said in an interview Wednesday. "Chicago, Minneapolis, it's over," although "it's still tight" in the Northeast and West, he said. 
Greyhound says ridership has increased steadily, although the 
1.3 million riders it has had since the strike began is only 
34.6 percent of the amount for the same period last year. 
"If the company were being as successful as it's claimed to be, I think you would have seen some kind of rush back to work," said union spokesman Jeff Nelson. 


Call 283-BLUE 
2 5 8 3 
New and Improved Hours Sunday -Thursday 7:30 -1:30 Friday -Saturday 7:30-2:00 effective Sunday, April 1 UDENT 

, \ ~CJUN./If~c(:: 
1989 -1990 / 


Viewpoint
Friday, March 30, 1990 
page 11 
=-Ihe_=Obset:Ver~=-== 
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John o·Br•en 
News Editor..................... Ke!ley Tuthtll Viewpoint Editor.. . .... M•chelle Oall Sports Editor. . .......... Greg Guffey Accent Editor..... ...CoiiP.en CroTlln Photo Editor.......... . ........... Eflc Bailey Saint Mary·s Editor ..Cor•nne Pavlis Business Manager Kathleen o·connor 
Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenntnkmeyer OTS Director .................... Dan Shinmck Controller ............. Chns Anderson 
The Observer •s 111e llldepPnd<>nt newspaper publtshed by the students of the Umvers1ly of Notre Dnn)e du L.IC and Samt Marys College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic•es ol the adrntmstra!ton of e•ther instttul!on. The news is reported as accurately and ob1ec1tvely as posstble Unstgned editonals represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Ed•tor tn Ch•ef. Managtng Edttor. News Edttor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Edttor. Photo Ed•tor. and S.11nt Mary"s Edttor. Commentanes. letters and lnstde Column present the vtew~ ot the autl1ors Column space ts available to all members of the communtly and the lr<;e P<P'eSston of varytng optntons on campus through 
letters. is encouraged 


Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my outrage at gubernatorial nomi­nee Clayton Williams for his remark comparing bad weather to rape. As quoted in The Observer (March 26), he said, "If it's inevitable, just relax and enjoy it." For raising this issue, some may label me yet another angry feminist (perhaps not enough estrogen in my system today!); for others, this is just another letter complaining about the intolerable attitude towards rape in our society. 
Well, it is another letter about that attitude -because the attitude still exists, and Williams' comment is proof of that fact. That he could even jokingly suggest that a woman: 
1) should accept rape, that it is an inevitable reality, that it is not something to be fought against; and 2) that somehow the violent abuse and forced domination of a woman's body and mind should be looked at as a pleasure, something for a woman to enjoy, Williams, by getting away with expressing these thoughts, demonstrates the existence and toleration of such attitudes. What I find even more horrifying is the fact that Williams, by his chosen candidacy, believes he best represents the values of the 
DOONESBURY 
people of Texas! 
Is it not enough that 284 rapes occurred and were re­ported in South Bend alone last year, and that it is estimated nine times that many went un­reported? How many women are we willing to continue suf­fering? How many of our friends do we thin_¥ should have to bear this pain? Is not one victim too many? 
Granted, there are many problems in this world, and we all wonder just which ones and how many we are called to ad­dress, but we do have an obli­gation to address at least a 
few. In this particular case, my personal convictions and my personal conscience would not let me remain silent The insen­sitivity of Williams' remark is something, I believe, that has to be more fully understood. It is a time to call attention to an injustice -the toleration and encouragement of rape -in the hopes that we, who have the power to make a difference, will bring an end to this de­structive attitude of condoning violent crimes against human­ity, by silence or by verh:tl agreement. 
Maeve O'Donovan Howard Hall March 27, 1990 
Dear Editor: 
Tomorrow, March 31, is our last official day as student body president and vice-president. It has been a truly rewarding ex­perience, and we feel it is only appropriate to recognize all of those who have helped make this year a success. We would like to thank everyone in our cabinet for their dedication to the goals that we outlined at the beginning of the year. When we were first elected, we stressed the importance of im­proving student services and promoting intellectual life on campus. Our cabinet helped us to realize these goals, with events such as the successful Iceberg Debates, ND Safewalk, the Parents' Weekend dessert buffet and the World Awareness Series. We all worked really well as a team this year. Furthermore, there has been a great working rela­tionship with the other depart­ments within student govern­ment, such as Student Union Board, the classes and the Hall Presidents' Council. The fact that we have been able to work so well together has helped us 
fOR 17LONG YEARS, HE HAIJ 16NOI?tlJ, ON A /JfJ57Y SHtV IN 
A CH/u;AN SOIJV&NIR 5TAU. 
BUTMJfiJ, A5AIR. F(J?{13 TIAJO 7DUCHWlJOWN ON U.7. 50/L-, IT '!£1JMW TH/3 U771J5 rou'5 ~ tQAt; ABaJT7()ENPHAPPIJ,Y. 
all be more effective leaders. 
Student government has also enjoyed a strong relationship with The Observer and Scholastic this year. In the past, this has not always been the case, but we do recognize this relationship has con­tributed to our success this year. These publications have made ardent efforts to cover student government events and issues throughout the year. This has helped increase awareness as to what student government actually does and what it can accomplish. We thank these publications for their support. 
We have also developed a good working relationship with the administration. The Office of Student Activities has been very helpful this year. Furthermore, we have worked well with the Office of Student Affairs. For example, with re­gards to the matching funds is­
~sue, Father Tyson was willing to sit down and reevaluate the situation, taking into consider­ation student input. This shows that the efforts of stu­dent leadership are recogniZf~rl. 
Finally, we would like to ex­press our pleasure in serving as student body president and vice-president this year. It has been an invaluable experience, one we will remember for a long time. We have learned a little more about ourselves and about others. Thank you for the opportunity to serve you and make a difference at Notre Dame. 
Matt Breslin Student Body President 
Dave Kinkopf Student Body Vice-president 
Profanity was not used in discussion 
Dear Editor: 
In his article, "Spike Lee accurately depicts life in New York inner cities" (The Observer, March 21), Mr. Russell Jones misquoted me. I asked the Director of Minority Student Affairs, "What have you been smoking?" There was no profanity at all (as I was quoted in The Observer). 
Sean O'Brien Off-campus March 22 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Oh, dear Lord, three things I pray. To see thee more clearly, love thee more dearly, follow thee more nearly, day by day.' 
Stephen Schwartz 
Godspell 
I· MELISSA COMER 
accent writer 
azz tjaz/ vb. 1.a. ENLIVEN 
J• 
When the nation's oldest Collegiate Jazz Festival hits campus this weekend. that's what they're bound to do. Enliven the 
campus with talent from all 
over the country to share their 
music and to compete with 
some of the best jazz 
ensembles. 
This weekend, at the 32nd annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, the University of Notre Dame will host jazz bands of varying sizes and a number of distin­guished judges. With a total of 15 groups participating in the competition throughout the weekend, it is truly a nation­wide festival. Competitors hail from Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan. Iowa, Kentucky, 
·~ 

~ 
l 
1 
I' 
:I 
.(
r( ( 

Indiana, Texas, and New 

Jersey. The talent that will perform 
MUSIC 
Flesh Burrito, Grace Cotfehouse, 9 p.m. 
in the festival is guaranteed to
Duke Tomato and the Power Street, Center Street 
be among the best in the na­
Blues Cafe, 9:30 
tion. It is an honor to be chosen 

Smoke Taxi, Alumni-Senior Club, 1 0 p.m. 
to participate. According to stu­
Corvallis Calling, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
dent Jerry Ford, the off-campus 
Mr. E., Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
publicity director for the event, "The bands went through a 
CAMPUS 
competitive application process. 
The festival is a prestigious Among the panel of judges, Jazz Ensemble will all perform. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival, JACC, 7:30, 11:30 p.m. 
event to come and play at." but not slated to perform, is At 7:30p.m. tomorrow. the
"Godspell," Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 
The committee selected the composer and director Gerald final session will be held with 
"Up the Down Staircase," Library Auditorium, 8:10 
bands based on tapes submitted Wilson. performances by the Southwest by those interested. The music Scheduled to compete tonight Texas State Univerity Jazz promises to be excellent and at 7:30p.m. are the Notre Ensemble, the Brooks Giles the competition close. Dame Jazz Band, the Eastern Quartet from the New School 
p.m. donations accepted. 

MUSIC 
In addition to the quality of Illinois Contemporary Jazz Program of Jazz and 
The Foggy Nights, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 
the participating bands, the Combo, the Massachusetts Contemporary Music, the 
p.m. 

judges for the festival are also Institute of Technology Festival Michigan State University Jazz 
Ed's Painting Company, Grace Coffehouse, 9:30 
highly respected members of Jazz Ensemble, the University Band I, the New Jazz Ensemble 
p.m. 
the jazz community. Their tal­of Massachusetts Jazz Sextet from the William Paterson 
Mr. E., Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
ent will be displayed in a tradi­and the Emporia State College of New Jersey, and the tional Judges Jam, which is University Jazz Ensemble. University of Massachusetts 
CAMPUS 
scheduled to take place at Tomorrow at 1 p.m. the Jazz Ensemble I. Collegiate Jazz Festival, JACC, 1, 7:30 p.m. 
11:30 tonight following the Western Michigan University In addition, a special guest 
evening session. Jazz Orchestra, the Acoustic appearance will be made by the
"Godspell," Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 
The Jam will feature Donald Outlet (a jazz combo from the University of North Texas One 
"Up the Down Staircase," Library Auditorium, 8:10 
Harrison, alto sax; Carl Allen, University of Northern Iowa), O'Clock Lab Band shortly be­drums; Steve Turre (from the the University of Kentucky Jazz fore the awards ceremony "Saturday Night live" band), Ensemble, the University of Saturday night. trombone; Marc Johnson, bass; Notre Dame Combo, and the The Jazz Festival is a student 
p.m. donations accepted. 

NOTRE DAME 
and Allen Broadbent, piano. University of Northern Iowa run event which involves ap-
Friday "The Package," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Sea of Love," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45p.m. 

Saturday "True Believer," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 

'Stunningly go
"Sea of Love," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45p.m. 
makes the mll 
REGIS COCCIA UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
accent writer 
"Born on the Fourth of July," 5 and 8 p.m. 
G 
ood singing 
"Driving Miss Daisy," 7:40 and 9:40p.m. 
tends to make
"Opportunity Knocks," 7:15 and 9:30p.m. 
for successful 
00 "Love at Large," 7:20 p.m. 
musicals, and
e 
"My Left Foot," 7:15 and 9:15p.m. 
Farley Hall 

"The 4th War," 7 and 9 p.m. 
Players'
"Glory," 7:20 and 9:50p.m. 
production of "Godspell" proves it. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
"Godspell," which opened 
"PreHy Woman," 7 and 9:45 p.m. 
Thursday night in Washington 
Hall, retells the teaching min­istry of Jesus in modern terms. Instead of a solemn, serious 
"Lord of the Flies," 7:20 and 9:20p.m. 
FORUM 
portrayal of the Son of God and
"Joe vs. The Volcano," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. 
the apostles, the show cele­
"Hard To Kill," 9:45p.m. 
brates the gospels in a light­
"Stella," 7 p.m. 
hearted, upbeat way.
"House Party," 8 and 10 p.m. 
Although "Godspell" is nearly 
:··.. .;;_ 
20 years old, its music and 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
message are remarkably enter­
"The War of the Roses", 7:15 and 9:45p.m. 
taining. The show is unusual in 
"The Hunt For Red October," 7 and 9:45p.m. 
that it uses no sets, no fancy 
"Henry V," 5:30 and 8:30p.m. 
costumes, few props and relies almost solely on the acting and singing talents of its cast. 

.,.
.. 
a e 13 
•

rev1ew 


n's premier ensembles this weekend North Texas One O'Clock Lab Band, The Observer/Colin McAteer 
proximately 30 people in the di­rect planning and an additional 60 in the setup and weekend preparations. Senior band member Kevin Keane is chair­person of the event, and Father George Wiskirchen, assistant director of bands at Notre Dame, serves as advisor to the students. ./
All sessions will be held at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center today and tomorrow. Tickets can be purchased for each event individually or as a whole at the LaFortune Student Center box office or at the door. There will be no reserved seating. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival will enliven the campus this weekend with talent, music, competition, and all that jazz. 
ad singing' in 'Godspell' sical a must-hear, must-see 
O'Connor fans get record they want 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
accent editor 
I 
Do Not Want What I Haven't Got, the new 
album by Sinead 
O'Connor, is a record 
brimming with emotion. It does not boast many dance songs--only one actually-but does boast her singing talents, and her songwriting talents as well. 
Her debut album last year, The Lion and the Cobra, was a fast-paced danceable release that reflected the passion and desire of the 20-year-old singer. This second album is the result of those same emotions. 
O'Connor wrote or co-wrote all but one of the songs, so the album became largely autobio­graphical. Though only 21 now, O'Connor proves she has expe­rienced a lifetime of emotions. Her songs range from preg­nancy to discrimination, and all have more substance and con­creteness than those from her debut album. 
O'Connor plays the acoustic guitar on most of the songs and contributes keyboards, electric guitar and percussion on many of the others. 
One of the more catchy songs on the album is "I Am Stretched on Your Grave." The music has a heavy bass pulse and sounds almost tribal. When paired with O'Connor's distinct voice, the song that comes together is completely different from any­thing else I have heard. O'Connor reveals she was very affected by a ruined relation­ship: "I still love you my love and you're dead/ and with you in your cold grave I cannot sleep warm." 
"You Cause as Much Sorrow" 
better portrays her frustration 
and anger. "Why must you al­
ways be around?/ Why can't 
you just leave it be?/ It's done 
nothing so far but destroy my 
life." This is one of the most 
emotional songs on the 
album-you can practically feel 
what she feels. 
O'Connor attacks England and racial discrimination in "Black Boys on Mopeds." This in one of two songs not about love, or the lack thereof, but it is not at all out of place. It has a great deal of emotion and awareness driving it, and she manages to make a definitive political statement: "Margaret Thatcher on TV/ shocked by the deaths that took place in Beijing/ it seems strange that she should be offended/ the same orders are given by her." 
The one track that has made it to the radio airwaves is "Nothing Can Compare 2 U," written by Prince. I would like to think it is being played be­cause it is the song that best shows off her incredible voice, but I am more inclined to think it is due to the Prince factor. 
The album ends with an a cappella rendition of the title song. It is almost prayer-like: "I have water for my journey/ I have bread and I have wine/ No longer will I be hungry/ For the bread of life is mine." 
Though it may take a few lis­tenings to get used to, I Do Not Want What I Haven't Got is well worth the time. O'Connor has grown up within the past year, and has used that experience to fuel this album, which is masterful from any aspect. 
Farley's production, directed by Robin Maher, combines some stunningly good singing with simple but effective chore­ography. 
"Godspell's" only major flaw is the soft-spokenness of sev­eral cast members, who don't use microphones. At times, especially in dialogue and occa­sionally in the songs. the voices are difficult to hear. 
Overall, however, "Godspell" is well-acted and a load of fun to see. Acting out Jesus' para­bles. the cast draws laughs by harmonizing like a '50s group, rapping about the man who didn't forgive his debtor and playing a comical game of cha­rades to show how to treat others. 
Some of the show's best singing occurs in "Turn Back, 0 Man." a cabaret-style number about repentance, and "All for the Best," a soft-shoe routine with straw hats and canes. 
Other memorable songs include "Day by Day" and "Learn Your Lessons Well." 
Despite the happy, casual mood through most of the show, Farley Hall Players' treatment of Christ's passion and death is reverential and deeply moving. 
The apostles chant the sor­rowful song "Long Live God" as they carry Jesus from the cross and off the stage. When he re­turns, alive, the same words signal their joy. 
The cast of Diana Barnes, Margaret Haugh, Joshua Henderson, Theodore Leo, Chris Norborg, Aimee Pernicano, Mary Pozar, Matt Roscoe, Timmy Sullivan and Laura Williams earns applause for an energetic, entertaining performance. 
"Godspell" is playing at Washington Hall tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. Don't miss it. 
page 14 The Observer Friday, March 30, 1990 
A lament to mourn the death of St. Michael's 
At age 64, I think I should be 
furnished me with an ounce of the sky. the great clouds and allowed to write a dirge, la­grace, and I can't be sure that the moon which is risen over ment, or elegy in honor of the Father Robert Griffin I'm not back-sliding. As a mat­Persia. I have a great and as­late, great St. Michael's laun­ter of fact, I'm in the mood for tonishing sense of something dry, connecting it to my crisis Letters to a Lonely God a new religion. Next time, it there, which is 'it.' of aging and of being tested by may be Jewish. if God's Chosen "It is not exactly beauty that I Doubts. People will take me in as a mean. It is that the thing is in 
Fellows as old as I am were from my p.j. s to the laundry. Now when the laundry comes Catholic dropout. itself enough: satisfactory; never intended by God or their and it came back as a leisure back. it's folded, but not The storyTs told of a Hasidic achieved. A sense of my own mothers to take in their own suit. ii·oned. How can you NOT feel rabbi who stood before the ark strangeness, walking on the washing. Some 64-year-olds The letters to the Observer like an orphan when you're us­on the Day of Atonement. earth is there too: of the infi­will tell you they've always done have been asking a foolish ing a handkerchief that has "Dear God," he said, "we come nite oddity of the human posi­their own laundry. and, by God, question: why should Notre never felt the weight of an before you this year. as we do tion; trotting along Russell they show it as they wander Dame men be spoiled by having iron? The shirts come back on every year, to ask Your for­Square with the moon up there around town looking like Span­their laundry done for them? hangers, which you can't pack giveness. But in this past year, I and those mountain clouds. ish-American War veterans. Isn't the answer obvious? The in a suitcase. Who has room to have caused no death. I have 
As a member of the Holy males of the race tend to be hang three dozen shirts in his brought no plagues upon the "Who am I, what am I. and so Cross Community. I was given a slobs. closet? world, no earthquakes, no on: these questions are always laundry number in 1947 that If you don't believe it, take a When I start to wonder what floods. I have made no women floating about in me: and then I I've kept ever since; the number look at their rooms. When has made the winter seem so widows, no children orphans. bump against some exact fact-­is +848. Darby O'Gill starts to growl at long, I realize that part of the God, You have done these a letter, a person--and come to 
the hills of trash on the dorm reason is the loss of St. things, not me! Perhaps You them again with a great sense floors, it is probably because Michael's. should be asking forgiveness of freshness. And so it goes on.
'The letters to the 
the hills are alive, though not In addition, Sacred Heart from me." But on this showing, which is
Observer have been 
with the sound of Muzak. Church is torn up. That makes Here he paused before, saying true, I think, I do fairly fre­asking a foolish In an off-campus house on it unthinkable to dream of dy­softly. "But since You are God, quently come upon this 'it,' then Notre Dame Avenue, the dishes ing, because I don't want to be and I am only Your humble ser­feel quite at rest." (from "A
question: why should 
from Thanksgiving dinner still buried from the chapel at vant..." and intoning the "Kol Writer's Diary")Notre Dame men be haven't been washed, and I'm Moreau. Over there, I would Nidre," he started the service. spoiled by having not even talking about last never get the send-off I'm ex­Perhaps at the end of this Virginia Woolf suffered from 
Thanksgiving. Who can re­pecting my friends to throw for winter of our discontent, God periodic bouts of acute depres­their laundry done for member the year those plates me. Even if Darby O'Gill is my should keep Lent, though not sion, and eventually committed them? Isn't the were packed in a box, shoved only mourner, I hope to be really. suicide. Poor genius! Did she 
under the kitchen sink, and wheeled down the aisle where Is it spring fever that makes lose a laundry. and did the loss
answer obvious? The 
then forgotten, like the little tin Notre Dame immortals have me digress in such a silly way? give her the feeling that shemales of the race soldier all covered with rust? been wheeled down before me. Since I will still be in the same was camping out? tend to be slobs.' For years, I put the laundry But for many months, alas! mood when the high noon of 
bag outside my door on Thurs­We've been deprived of Sacred spring is long past, perhaps I I should go to Fanny May's to 
Once you became Father day night, and the following Heart Church and the Notre could allow Virginia Woolf to shop for jellybeans. Jellybeans +848, St. Michael's would de­Tuesday it came back with Dame laundry. See how we suf­speak for both of us. "I have would be enjoyable as the first liver miracles to your door on a number tags neatly sewn to the fer for the Faith, as the arch­some restless searcher in me. fruits of Easter. Will the Easter weekly basis. You could send socks. The shirts were stuffed bishop said when he burned his Why is there not a discovery in Bunny see his shadow on the them the crotch, or merely the with cardboard to prevent hand on the roast. life? Something one can lay feast day he shares with Jesus? fly, from a worn-out pair of wrinkling, and they were This madness of Lent keeps hands on and say 'This is it?' If he does see his shadow. will boxer shorts, and that surviv­wrapped around with paper dragging on. I started Lent "My depression is a harassed there be six more weeks of ing patch of Fruit-of-the­strips bearing the ND mono­well, but once it was ruined by feeling. I'm looking, but that's Lent? Looms would come back with a gram, like the sanitized ones the semester break, the heart not it--that's not it. What is it? new pair of legs sewn on to it. you find on toilet seats in a mo­went out of me. For two weeks And shall I die before I find it? Here endeth my dirge for the Once I sent the drawstring tel. or more, the holy season hasn't Then...l see the mountains in laundry. 
.• rr •
At the March 26 meeting, Student Senate awarded 4 members e : UDEN of the Notre Dame Community the : 
e CJvtlA''lfl-H --r-IRISH CLOVER AWARD e 
: 1989 _ · ~ for "outstanding Service to the students of the Notre Dame community." :
1990 
• •e
e The 4 recipients are: • MELISSA SMITH Junior VICTOR KREBS • : .-Executive Assistant for Student Governmant .-Assistant Rector, Grace Hall : e ~Assistant Judicial Council Coordinator .-Former Graduate Student Union President e e .-Chair of University Academic Honor Code e e Committee e 
: DR. PETER WMBARDO : 
• 
.-Assoc. Director, Center for Continuing Education e 

• 
GUY WEISMANTEL Senior .-College Bowl Advisor e e .-Student Body Treasurer ..C.L.C. Member e 


e Other nominees: e 
• Ken Schore Vinny Sanchez Phil Johnson e : Matt Thiel Bubba Cunningham Jim Lyphout : e Gina Mahoney Dr. Emil Hofman Tony Lang e Student Govemmant Legal Department Rex Rakow Karen Leonard : 
Friday, March 30, 1990 The0bse~N~e~r--------------------------------------------~p~a~g~e~1~5 
Olajuwon records quadruple double in victory over Bucks 
HOUSTON (AP) -Houston's pie-double in a game against Oct. 18, 1974, and Alvin their fifth consecutive victory. Chuck Person also scored 25 
points for Indiana, including a
Akeem Olajuwon became the Golden State on March 3 only Robertson, then of San The five-game run matches third player in NBA history to to have it withdrawn by the Antonio, with 20 points, 11 re­the Pacers' longest of the sea­3-for-6 effort from 3-point record a quadruple-double -NBA. Olajuwon had been given bounds, 10 assists and 10 son, a feat they accomplished range. Reggie Miller added 21, 
and Vern Fleming contributed
18 points, 16 rebounds, 10 as­a 10th assist when the Rockets' steals on Feb. 18, 1986. twice earlier, while the Kings sists and 11 blocked shots -in staff looked at the game film. The victory pulled the Rockets ended a five-game road trip 17. LaSalle Thompson topped leading the Rockets to a 120-94 After the league ruling, within one-half game of Seattle with their fourth loss. the Pacers with 11 rebounds. victory over the Milwaukee Olajuwon wound up with 29 for the final playoff berth in the Sacramento trailed by as Wayman Tisdale, making his Bucks on Thursday night. · points, 18 rebounds and 11 Western Conference. many as 12 points in the first first appearance at Market 
With 2:50 left, Olajuwon got blocked shots but only nine as­Pacers 111, Kings 101 half, but had whittled the mar­Square Arena since being his 10th assist when he passed sists. INDIANAPOLIS (AP) --Detlef gin to seven after three periods. traded last season to the Kings to Lewis Lloyd, who hit a jump The other two players to Schrempf powered a fourth-pe­And when Wayman Tisdale and for Thompson and Randy shot. record quadruple-doubles were riod surge with 14 of his 25 Antoine Carr combined to score Wittman, scored just two 
Olajuwon's performance Nate Thurmond of Chicago points as the Indiana Pacers six straight points, Sacramento points in the first half and fin­came less than four weeks after with 22 points, 14 rebounds, 13 downed the Sacramento Kings had closed to 83-80 with just ished with 13, well under his he was credited with a quadru-assists and 12 blocked shots on 111-101 Thursday night for under 10 minutes to play. team-leading average of 22.5. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
"It's obviously a monster... a force Mom's Top 15 for herI Need a Rider to help me MICHIGAN WATERFRONT CLUB 23
that cannot be stopped or EARNEST STUMBLERS:drive home to Southern
NOTICES 
California after Graduation 5 Acres-2500 sqft. home, 4 reasoned with."-Georgetown GOOD MUSIC 15.How many packs of gum (May 21 ). If you can help, ponds,barn,On Dowagiac River coach John Thompson DIFFERENT FOOD tonight?
WORDPROCESSING 
please call Angie at x3958. Front. Niles-M-51 N. commenting on... Parts Unknown, 14.Watch out for that tree!
LIVE PEOPLE272-1837 
Weight Unknown. Bookstore. 13.Socrates & the farm animals CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all St. Joseph River Front-2700 SqFt Today. GOOD FOOD 12.Anal Retentive Typing 
positions. Both skilled and brick home,4-1/2 acres,225 ft. on DIFFERENT PEOPLE 11.Bulls--t. Don't bother! 
Pickup & Delivery 
unskilled. For information Call River. N.Red Bud-Buchanan. LIVE MUSIC 1 O.Leave a message w/ Moe & 
277-7406 22 MORE DAYS UNTIL DIANE 
(615) 779-5507 Ext. R-200. he'll call you back 
RICKER IS 22!! 
UNIOUE-4500 SqFt on 17 acres,2 GOOD PEOPLE 9.What was that ripping sound? 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
8.Your fly is down & you're hung
WANTED: barns­DIFFERENT MUSIC
Shipping, Packaging, Copies. PmSBURGH
1 or 2 girls to live at Lafayette pasture,fenced,pond,inground LIVE FOOD like a mouse 
Resumes from $15.00. Anyone driving there 
Square townhouses next year. If pool, indoor hot tub room! A luxury 7.Wait! These aren't mini 
277-MAIL Wed4111
interested please call Beth or Jill at home! Niles. Farley Hall Players present hamburgers
Please call X 1232 GODSPELL, March 29, 30, 31 6.Was there anyone else in the#2722 or #2723INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund 
Over 5000 sqft in this at Washington Hall at 8:00. room w/ Gretchen & Jeff? 
in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! Dennis "I'm Mr. Florida" Wolle
ATTENTION SENIORS contemporary luxury! On 5 Acres­Tickets are $2.00 and are on 5.32 Across: Hindu Ascetic 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 is peeling. That hot tan will
security system,intercom,every sale at the Information Desk 4.Kevin-Did you remember the 
soon be gone. Please give him
Moying to So. Californta? Need a feature you could want. Servants LaFortune or at the door. milk? 
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! your sympathies....
roommate? '89 NO grad seeking quarters with private entrance. 3.WHO was that spot on the PANDORA'S BOOKS 
roommate in Redondo Beach Redfield Rd Near State Line. HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS window? 
Corner of NO ave and Howard Yo! Yo! 
area. For more info call Debbie G. SUMMER? Jet there from 2.Mom has a foot fetish I
233-2342 
at (213)813-8607 Call Leona Proud 616-695-6933 Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for 1.There was potato salad,
MEGAN NOONE
(days) or (213)379-1505 (eve). for info. ERA Day. no more than $229, or from the everywhere!
Responsible,adult male, non­East Coast for no more than $160 3-31-90 Family Reunion. 
smoker, non-drinker will house sit Yeah, we're talkin' to you: 
Need RIDE to Annapolis or Two 100-watt speakers. I bought with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in Attendance mandatory-thatJune thru Aug. References. Call Baltimore MD April 5 or 6-8 them in August and need more NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer means you Jules. Bring your
after 7pm 1-616-465-6292 Have a great 21st B-day!!!
Call Melissa #4431 power for my 10x10 room. Paid Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) secrets, scruples & FEET! Love, $200, want $150 or blo. Joe, 212-864-2000. Mom 
STUDENTS! Do you dread putting How 'bout it?!?
WANTED: x2041 or late at x 1838. 
your resume together? This is the PANGBORN CUP More of those wild and crazy
easiest resume you'll ever do. Just Luv,
Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. OPPORTUNITY! PANGBORN CUP quotes from BILL, MIKE, 
send $10 today for Resume's Dave and Steve
Will share expenses and driving. 1978 CHEVROLET CAPRICE PANGBORN CUP FRANK, COLLEEN, and Made Easy! P.O. Box 41064, Fort Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back by CLASSIC. 100,000 MI. RUNS Entries are still being accepted for MELISSA'S EXCELLANT 
Wayne, Indiana 46804 P.S. Larry Bowa hopes you get his 
4/17. GREAT. VERY DEPENDABLE. the 1990 Pangborn Cup Charity ADVENTURE IN FLORIDA: 
package!
$1,000. WILL BARGAIN. CALL Golf lnterhall Championship. Talk •LEZDOIT! 
KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE --------------------------.\.--------­•Mike, why do we have two
Alex X1580 288-7929. to your dorm president or call Pat 
Summer Rental To Rachel Lovejoy, balls?
x2479 for Info. All dorms are
415 bdrm. 2bth, furnished Hope your 21st was a blast, •What was I just poked with?
86 Plymouth Horizon w/ 1 yr. eligible but entry space is limited. 
913 Leland because in the light of all 
NEEDED:Ride to Pittsburgh on warranty. $2800 but will Tournament day is Sunday, April •Milk me baby!
X4420 eternity ... well, you know
4/12 and back on 4/16.Am negotiate.X4200 or 232-9938. 8,1990. •Well, I didn't know you were 
how it goes! 
flexible .Will help with $$. a cop.
MAKE $50 THE EASY WAY Love, flat 7 PANGBORN CUP 
CALL ALl X x4845 •Big Bone Lick 
sign up for the TRACKS POOL PANGBORN CUP
nCKETS 
•Please secure all loose 
TOURNAMENT in the Gorch The rest of camp is in heat, too. PANGBORN CUP packages.
Games Room-tourney play FOR RENT Except maybe Jose. · 
Hey Seniors, •Please pay after pumping
begins Monday, April 2 POW-WOW on April1 at the JACC
I need 4 extra graduation tickets •Hey Derk 
First Place-$50 STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? THE BOATHOUSE BLUES from noon-7p.m. Admission free
and will pay CASH for any seat •Don't force it--it will come. Second &Third-Tracks Gift BAND!!!! with an ND/SMC 1.0. There will be 
anywhere. So call me at 256-9374 •Ease up New York! 
Certificates Sublet a townhouse at Turtle Native American dancing, outfits,
and get your mula. •14 beers, 4 people, half an 
Creek ... (2 bedrm.,1 THE BOATHOUSE BLUES jewelry and other goods. Come 
hour: no problem!
1/2bathrm,kitchen, etc.l BAND!!!! out to experience the culture of
What do you get after 4 years and •I'm up for any1hing involving

LOST/FOUND 
Call Amy at x2702 your Native American peers!
$50,000? Only 4 grad. tix!l beer! 
at CLUB 23 ----TONIGHT!!!!!!!!!!
Will Pay HEFTY BUCKS for one 
LOST: KEYS ON A 1988 SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP Come see a Mr.E become reality
more. 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP Walk to campus, pool Come join us. tonight and Sat. at
Call Ben @272-7313 Tonight is the debut
KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND. PLEASE etc., 2bdrms, call277-7496 THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BRIDGET'S performance ofCALL CATHY AT 4841 . THANKS. BAND.... MR.E @10:00
SR FORMAL TIX 4 SALE #1727 THE GENERICS! Two (2) houses available for rent. at CLUB 23 -------TONIGHT!!!!! 
The campus music scene from
HEY DAYS FANS!!!!!!!! SENIORS!! HAVE EXTRA GRAD now on will not be the same. 
LOST : Canon Snappy 35mm Close to Notre Dame. Call 232­Jack's HOT!
camera-lost Sat.Mar.24 at the 5411 for more information. 
TICKETS? I WILL PAY BIG$ Good luck Dennis, Brian, 
Jen'sHOT! 271-8245 LEAVE MESSAGE Damian, Aras, and Dave. You
Linebacker. Blackmail pictures on •••••••THE"""""""""""""" 
"""BOATHOUSE•••••••••••• Who thinks they should be will leave the Flanner folks roll inside. You can share in profits 4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
••••••••••sLUEs••••••••• hot together????
if returned! Please call Melissa at AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL 
SENIORS!! HAVE EXTRA GRAD simply amazed. 
x4117 or x3735! Help! YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE ········sANo············ I do. My roommates do. 
TICKETS? I WILL PAY BIG$ From one of your
And so do 8 other callers. 
TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE TONIGHT AT CLUB 23? Yes.
271-8245 LEAVE MESSAGE first groupies 
What do you think??????
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. RENT. 277-0959. 
Call Molly at 3885 to place
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. To the beautiful goddess in
NEED GRADUATION TIX your vote.
REWARD. SEAN 2073 SUMMER RENTAL Godspell (i.e. Margaret Haugh):
CALL KEVIN 277-7167 TONIGHT ONLY! 
TURTLE CREEK TWNHSE. your sweet voice sounds so much MAYORAL COMMANDWANTED:
LOST: Black and gold Seiko POOL, CLOSE TO NO like angels from above, that I can't PERFORM. 
dress watch on the second 272-7449 help but feel guilty for the passion I
PERSONALS 
MAD DOG PETRILL
Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. JONI MARTIN
floor of the library. Please have for you. I'll be the one with the 
Will share expenses and driving. Parrot Heads Forever I!! ITS: CORVALLIS CALLING
call Pat x24 79 or give to STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? virgin white roses for you after Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back bylibrary security at the front 2 bedroom furnished apt. Friday's show. See you then. 
MCCORMICK'S FRI. 10-24/17.
desk. for subleasing RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms 
CALL NOW!! 284-4070 STACEY TURNER 
for Graduation weekend. Located 
Alex X1580 at Toll Road Exit #92, Elkhart (12 Far Side Cards now available!
LOST AT FARLEY/STANFORD CONGRATULATIONS BABE!! 
FORMAL 
FOR SALE miles from South Bend). Minimum Happy Bday BOOParoo Great selection of cards, A navy blue Brooks Brothers Easter Baskets stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per books, and mugs in 
We're sure you'll have tons room. Send letter with deposit to The Country Harvester.
Blazer. Another blazer was found . Easter Bunnies 
. . it might be yours. 72 DODOGE POLARA. Stereo. Easter Candy o'fun 
3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN Lower Level LaFortune 
Alarm, runs great. $575 obo The London Oops really miss
Call John x3779 
46514. 12-5M-F
you And wish we were there for 
call John 1665 Visit the Country Harvester for a 
great selection in unique gifts for
Lost: Green Notre Dame Rugby CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE COMMmEE
the big 21
FOR SALE: One Uniden RD-9 ND/SMC dances, birthdays or justJacket--name Tom on it. 
DESPERATELY WISHES TO ON
radar detector. In good shape. On your way home from the
Taken from coat room in senior SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND to say "I LOVE YOU!" TRUTH AND REALITY 
Pays for itself when it saves you Lower Level LaFortune bars look out for the Twee-s
bar, if found please call 287-8648. MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE
speeding tickets and insurance And be careful of your name­
NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH COTAR
hikes. Best offer. Call Bill at x1777. sake-those walls! 
Live Performances 
\ 
OTHER REAliZE OUR DREAMS. 
Remember not to eat cake off

WANTED 
At the COFFEEHOUSE
EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL THE PUMP DON'T WORK
WALK TO NO-1989 CONDO-2 the floor-PLEASE
\ Fri. 9:30pm
KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT
BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS, But most importantly just
Flesh Burrito 
CAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, (201) 635-1307. Happy Birthday Mom Gill!!! I know
FIREPLACE, CENTRAL AIR, have a ball! 
Sat 9:30pm
sleepaway camp, Massachusetts. your birthday isn't for 3 days-but
BASEMENT. Love-Loop&Coop
Some key positions avail. Also: ""MEGAN HINES"" Ed's Painting Company you know how late you get these
REIMAX 255-5858
WSI. lifeguard, arts & crafts, all Good luck in Italy!! At the Grace COFFEEHOUSE papers!!!
JO MYERS 234-1747.
land and water sports, fitness. 
Notre Dame should be Jeff-ish Thanks Silver-ish
gymnastics, piano/play for shows. proud to have you representing hiag ATTN. SENIORS
1980 Pinto, Runs Well, $600, 
drama, judo, dance, tennis, them!! Anyone who is going to U. of Mich.
277-4269, Kathi or Steve ENGINEER'S WEEK!
Go home to MOMMY ag!
archery. photography. computers, We'll miss you! Love, CKiein,D2, for grad. or prof. school and needs
ENGINEER'S WEEK!model rocketry, guitar. radio, ET, Cubi. Karen, KT, and 28 place to liWJ SMC '89 grads
ENGINEER'S WEEK!
video, yearbook, newspaper, SCUBA GEAR! Cylinder,mask, Siegfried!I looking for roommate.
APRIL 2-6 
GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID
wilderness. woodwork, RN typist. fins.regulator,etc. Great condition. call313-663-&440 
6/18-8120. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Barely used. 232-9938. Parts is parts ... The Hall of Fame every Friday 12:15 Joe-
Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY Administration Building steps Oops!
Game. Friday. Be there. Nex1 time try LAMBSKIN! 11 might 10707. 800/955-CAMP. PLANE TICKET Be There! Who are you?
work better. Have tun in DC and 
rndfrp SB to Wash,DC stev.stuff.liza stay away from 14th Street! I am quite curious! NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE Estr wknd April 12,16 Red Headed Whiskey any weekend-ext 1938 BEST OFFER! X2646 Valentines UNDERGROUND 
Scoreboard 
page 16 Friday, March 30, 1990 
NHL STANDINGS SPORTS CALENDAR 
Friday, March 30 WALES CONFERENCE 
Pab1ck Division w l T ""' GF GA Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational. Lexington, Ky. 
x-NY Rangers 36 29 13 85 276 262 y-New Jersey 36 34 8 80 287 284 Lacrosse at San Diego Slate Tournament, Notre 
y-Washington 34 38 6 74 279 272 Dame vs. Air Force. 
Pittsburgh 32 38 8 72 312 351 NY Islanders 30 38 11 71 275 
286 Saturday, March 31 
Philadelphia 30 38 10 70 285 288 Baseball vs. SAINT LOUIS, Coveleski Stadium. 
Adams Division x-Boston 46 25 7 99 284 p.m.
227 
I 
y-Buffalo 43 27 8 94 278 244 y-Montreal 41 28 9 91 285 
231 Baseball vs. ILLINOIS. Coveleski Stadium 8 82 271 265 (ESPN). 7:30p.m.
y-Hartford 37 33 
l 
Quebec 12 59 7 31 236 399 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Men's tennis al Miami (Ohio). 1t a.m. 
Non1s Division 
Pis GF GA Women's tennis at Michigan State, t :30 p.m. j 32 6 84 304 285 
w L T 
y-Chicago 39 y-St. Louis 36 33 9 81 287 269 Lacrosse at San Diego State Tournament, 
1 
y-Toronlo 37 37 4 78 329 350 Championship/Consolalion. 
y-Minnesota 35 39 4 74 277 284 13 69 284 315 Men:s golf at Kentucky Invitational. Lexington, Ky. 
Detroit 28 37 Softball at Bradley (2), 2 p.m. 
Smythe Division x-Calgary 40 23 15 95 334 259 y-Edmonton 37 27 14 88 309 275 Men's track at "Meeting of the Minds" meet at Rice 286 University, Tx. versus Rice. Drake and Harvard. 
y-W1nn1peg 36 31 11 83 295 y-Los Angeles 34 36 
7 75 331 322 Vancouver 24 41 14 62 239 303 Sunday, Aprtl1 
x-clinched division title y-chnched playoff berth 
Baseball vs. SAINT LOUIS (2). Coveleski Stadium, 
t p.m.
Wednesday's Game Friday's Game 
New York Islanders 6. Toronto 3 Edmonton at Calgary. 9:35p.m. Thursday's Games Saturday's Games 
Men's tennis vs. WISCONSIN. t2 p.m. 
Late Games Not Included Detroit at New Jersey, t :35 p.m. Boston 3, Hartford 2 Hartford at Quebec. 7:35p.m. 
Women's tennis at Eastern Michigan. 10 a.m. 
Buffalo 4, Minnesota 2 Buffalo at Pittsburgh. 7:35p.m. Montreal 5. Quebec 2 Philadelphia at New York Islanders. 7:35 p.m. 
I 
Washington 2. Philadelphia 2, tie New York Rangers at Washington, 7:35 p.m. 
TRANSACTJONS. NBA BOX SCORES 
New Jersy 6. New York Rangers 4 Chicago at Toronto, 8 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at St. Louis. (n) Los Angeles at Vancouver, 8:05p.m. SACRAMENTO (101) MILWAUKEE (94) 
BASKETBALL 
National Basketball Association
Boston at Montreal, 8:05p.m.
Toronto attChicago, (n) McCray 3-9 4-4 10, Tisdale 6-17 t-t 13, Ellison Krystkowiak 5-9 0-0 tO, Roberts 5-7 4-4 14, NEW JERSEY NETS-Signed Sam Bowie.
Winnipeg at Los Angeles. (n) Minnesota at St. Louis. 8:35p.m. 9-13 t-2 t9, Ainge 4-11 0-0 8, Del Negro 5-9 t-t Anderson 6-t4 2-4 t4. Humphries 6-20 5-8 t7, center. to a five-year contract. 
1t, Kite 0-0 0-0 0, Toney 6-9 1-t t4, Carr 10-2t 6-Robertson 8-20 2-2 18, Lohaus 6-tt 0-0 t2. FOOTBALL 
726. Totals43-8914-t6t0t. Grayer 4-1t 1-2 9, Horford 0-3 0-0 0, Brown 0-4 0­
NBA STANDINGS National Football League 
0 0. Kornet 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 40-tOt t4-20 94. DALLAS COWBOYS--Signed Louis Cheek. 
INDIANA (111) HOUSTON (120) EASTERN CONFERENCE 
offensive tackle. 
Person 1t-18 0-0 25, Thompson 2-4 0-0 4, Smits Johnson_7-17 5-6 t9, Thorpe 9-t3 3-5 21.
Atlantic Division LOS ANGELES RAMS--Signed Jerry Leggett. 
6-17t-t13, Fleming 7-11 3-3 t7, Miller 9-t5 2-3 Olajuwon 6-t4 6-8 t8. Floyd 4-7 0-0 t1, Wigg1ns 6­linebacker, and Rodney Lossow. center. 
w l R:l Streak 
21, Schrempf 7-t410-t2 25, Green 0-6 2-2 2, tt 2-2 14, Smith 3-3 0-0 6, Maxwell 3-5 t-2 8. MINNESOTA VIKINGS--Signed Ira Hillary wide
Philadelphia 45 26 .634 Won5 Sanders 2-5 0-0 4, Wittman 0-1 0-0 O.Totals 44-91 Woodson t-5 2-2 4. Lloyd 6-8 0-0 t2, McCormickBoston 41 28 594 3 Lost2 
receiver. NewYorl< 40 29 .580 4 Lost t 
tB-21111. t-4 0-0 2, Caldwell 1-1 0-0 2, Bow1e t-4 0-0 3. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS--Signed Adam Washington 26 44 .37t t81/2 Wont 
Totals 48-92 t9-25 t20. Bob. linebacker. 3-Point goals-Sacramento t-7 (Toney 1-3.
.239 28 Won2 3-Point goals-Milwaukee 0-5 (Humphries 0-2. WASHINGTON REDSKIN&-Signed Marl< Ainge 0-4), Indiana 5-13 (Person 3-6. Schrempf 1­Miami 17 54 
Lohaus 0-3), Houston 5-12 (Floyd 3-5. Maxwell 1­Adickes. guard, and Tom Brown. running back. 2, Miller t-5). Fouled out-Toney. Rebounds­
New Jersey 16 54 .229 281/2 Wont 
2, Bowie t-3. Woodson 0-2). Fouled out-None. COLLEGE Sacramento 53 (Ellison t2), Indiana 45Central Division 
18 Wont Rebounds-Milwaukee 57 (Anderson t3), x-Chicago 46 23 .667 5112 Won2 Houston 60 (Oiajuwon 16). Assists-Milwaukee 23 x-Detroit 52 743 
NCAA-Placed the Plattsburgh State ice hockey (Thompson 11 ). Assists-Sacramento 25 (McCray 
program on two-year probation for major rules 9), Indiana 23 (Fleming 9). Total fouls­Milwaukee 37 33 .529 t5 Lost 1 
(Robertson 8), Houston 34 (Oiajuwon t 0). Total violations. · Sacramento 20, Indiana 20. A-t0,305. 
fouls-Milwaukee 19. Houston t9. A-t5.088.
Indiana 36 34 .514 t6 Won5 Atlanta 33 36 .478 18 112 Won2 Cleveland 32 37 .464 19 112 Lost t Orlando 17 52 .246 34 112 Lost3 
SPRING TRAINING 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Thursday's Exhibition Llnescores AI Bradenton, Fla. Midwest Division AI St. Petersburg, Fla. Toronto 002 020 t 02-7 14 0 
w l R:l Streak Philadelphia 000 100 03Q-4 5 0 Pittsburgh 002 026 22x-14 15 4 x-Utah 50 19 .725 Won4 ~~ Louis 300 000 004-7 7 2 Flanagan, Stottlemyre (4), Henke (5), Blair (6), Cummings (7) and Myers, x-San Antonio 47 23 67t 3 tl2 Lost t Carman, Malone (4), McDowell (6), Gray (8) and Lake. Gibbons (8); Tudor. Borders (6); Walk, Reed (4), Bair (6). Kipper (7). Ruskin (8). Power (9) and Dallas 40 29 580 10 Won6 Mathews (4). Horton (7). Perez (9) and Zeile, Stephens (7). W-Perez. t-0. LaValliere. Ortiz (7). W-Bair, t-0. L-Biair. 0-t. HAs-Toronto. Myers (t). 
Denver 36 34 .5t4 t4 112 Lost4 
L-Gray, 0-t. HR~t Louis. Zeile (t). Brunansky (1), Stephens (t), Pittsburgh, JBell (1), Ortiz (1). Houston 34 36 .486 t6 112 Won2 Thompson ( t ). At Winter HaVWI, Fla. Minnesota 19 51 .271 31 112 Wont 
AI West Palm Beach, Fla. Detroit 20 t 000 000-3 1t 0 Charlotte 14 56 .200 36 112 Lost2 
New York (N) 000 tOO 000-t 6 3 Boston 000 3t0 Otx-5 9 PacHic Division Atlanta 000 001 Ot x-2 9 2 Nosek. Searcy (4), Holman (5), Richards (7) and Heath, Clark (6); Puleo. x-LA. Lakers 52 17 754 Wont Ojeda, Whitehurst (4), Musselman (7) and Lyons. Sasser (7); Luecken, Johnson (4). Manzanillo (7), Murphy (8), Reardon (9) and Gedman. W­x-Portland 50 20 .7t4 2tl2 Wont Castillo (4), Henry (7). Soever (9) and Davis, Mizerock (7). W-Henry, 1-1. L­Johnson, t-0. L-Holman. 0-t. Sv-Reardon (2). 
x-Phoenix 47 23 .67t 5t12 Wont 
Musselman. 0-t. Sv-Boever (t). AI Lakeland, Fla. Seattle 34 35 .493 t8 Lost3 
AI Fort Lauderdale, Fla . Boston 220 122 00-9 t 3 Golden State 31 3 7 .456 20 112 Lost t Baltimore 00 t t 00 001-3 9 4 Detroit (ss) 023 000 3t-9 t5 LA Clippers 27 44 380 26 Lost t 
NewYork(A)100 430 1tx-10 t6 1 Game suspended alter eight innings. rain. Sacramento 22 49 .3t0 31 Lost3 Ballard. Schilling (3), E.Bell (5), Aldreich (5), Holton (8) and Melvin. Hoiles Bolton. Rochford (3). Ellsworth (7). Harris (8) and Pena; x-clinched playoff berth 
(6); Leary. Burns (6). W.Smith (8) and Cerone, Geren (6). W-leary, t-0. L­Robinson. Aldred (3). Vesting (5). Nunez (8) and Nokes. Salas (6). HR­Wednesday's Garnes Dallas 109, San Antonio 105 Schilling, 0-1. HR-New York. Mattingly (t). Boston. Burks (1), Cooper (1). Detroit, Whitaker (t). New Jersey 106, New York 101 Utah at Golden State, (n) At Plant City, Fla. At Port Charlotte, Fla. ' 
Philadelphia 122. Boston 1 04 Atlanta at Portland. (n) Minnesota t 00 000 00 t-2 Chicago (ss) 005 202 tOO-tO 13 Washington 113, Denver 99 Friday's Garnes Cincinnati 2t0 010 OOx-4 8 Texas (ss) 000 000 110-2 7 Miami 109, Orlando 104 Detroit at Boston. 7:30 p.m. Smith, Cook (4), Candelaria (7) and Harper, Robinson, Sabra (3), Lazor (6), Reuss. Edwards (5). Radinsky (8), Hudek (9) and Karl<ovice, Willard (6). Detro~ 106, Charlotte 97 Phoenix at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Allen (8), Dibble (9) and Oliver. McGriff (5). W-Robinson. 1-0. L-Smith, 0-t. Wakamatso (9); Jeffcoat, Amsberg (3). McMurtry (5), Barfield (7). Russell (9) Chicago 117, Cleveland 113, OT Denver at Philadelphia. 7:30p.m. Sv-Dibble (2). and Petralli, Berger (7). W-Reuss. 1-0. L-Arnsberg, 0-t. HAs--chicago, 
Minnesota 93, Sacramento 88 Cleveland at Miami. 7:30p.m. AI Port St. Lucie, Fla. Thomas (1). Woodson (1), Lyons (1). Texas, Buechele (1). 
Los Angeles Lakers 106. Los Angeles Clippers 99 Orlando at Washington. 8 p.m. 
LosAngelesOOO 112 Ot0-5 t1 3 At Scottsdale, Ariz. Thursday's Garnes New York at Chicago, 8 p.m. 
New York (N)t01 OOt 001-4 tO 0 Oakland 000 000 000-0 4 2 Late Garnes Not Included Minnesota at Dallas, 8:30p.m. Neidlinger, Crews (3), Hartley (5), Gott (7). Searage (8), Mayberry (9) and San Fran 02t 000 t Ox-4 t2 0 Phoenix 1 05. Charlotte 92 Golden State at Seattle. 10 p.m. 
Scioscia, Dempsey (6); Darling, M.Miller (5). Valera (7), Schourek (9) and Moore, Burns (4). Klink (7). Law (8) and Steinbach, Afenir (7); Downs. Indiana t1t, Sacramento tOt Portland at Los Angeles Lakers. 10:30 p.m. Mercado. Hundley (5). W-Hartley, t-0. L-M.Miller. 0-t. Sv-Mayberry (1). Gunderson (3), Brantley (6), Quisenberry (9) and Manwaring. W-Downs. t-0. H t t20 M'l k 94 Atl t L A I Cl tO 30 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Saturday's Games, March 31 2:t5-Holy Cross Boogey Down vs. Rat Pack Lyons 11 4:t5-We're Not Tacos. We're Not Burr~os. What Bookstore 9 
Stepan t 3:00 -Gonna vs. Scarlet Pumpernickels 1 :30 -Mike Sheets & The Staff Infections vs. We're the Hell Are We? vs. S.T.A.NK 2:00 -Mr. Stanford & the Emissions Control 
1:30-Parts Unknown ... Weight Unknown vs. Team 4:00-4 Sprockets & Their Monkey vs. F1sh Don't Playing Hoop on the Boat 5:00 -The Quimby Quintal vs. The Vossburgs System vs. Royal Ugly Dudes 
#36 Use Ambesol 2:t5-The Guy Who Registered Is Too Lazy to 2:45 -Satanic Embryos vs. 2 Hooked, 2 Baited. & 2:15-Four F Club vs. Dam Slunkers 4:45 -288-STOP vs. Don't Jerk Our Chains Come Up With a Good Name vs. The Beer F arts Stepan 3 Tom 3:00-Team#: 487 vs. One Game & Out 5:30-Irish Wiske~ Runners vs. Team Lithuania 3:00-Team #664 vs. Dee Dee, Dude, Mic. A Sic, 2:00-Ricky Jez Cown-Et vs. Condors 3:30-Environmental Rapists vs. Em Tae 
4:00-Take It Easy vs. Ceaucesceu, Noriega, and The Terminator 2:45 -5 Fools vs. Tunnel Dwellers 4:t5-Muck Off vs. Viti & 4 Other Cool Dudes Digger & Two Other Guys Who Dug Their Own Stepan 6 4:00-Beer vs. 5 Guys Who Like Hoops 3:30-Jr. Gash & the Scam Pieces vs. Jim Baker. 5:00 -The Traveling Cowboy & His Four Bohunks Graves 1:30-Digger's Offense, Pete's Logic, & 3 Other 4:45-Crime Doesn't Pay IV vs. Kelly's Heroes Digger Phelps & 3 Other Guys Wastin' Our Money vs. Crazy Ladies 
4:45 -Heated Jello vs. EMA Posse Things That Don't Work vs. Return of the Horny 5:30 -Three Pre-Meds & an Enlarged Prostate vs. 4:15-The Go, Go. Go, Gophers. The Texas Toads 
5:30 -The Gothards vs. 3 Guys On a Dog Pile Harlets From Hell Development Dawgs II (Won't be played Saturday) ... vs. Bye 
2:t5-Hennessey's Washington Bar vs. 5 Under 5:00-Cloudsy vs. The Mighty Quinn Bookstore 10 Stepan 2 5'5' Lyons 12 2:00 -Six Open Women vs. Gods of Hellfire 
1:30 -V's Revenge vs. Big Bad Boris & The 3:00 -Diatomaceous Ooze vs. Come Play With Us. t :30 -Veni Vini Vinci (We Came We Saw We Lost) 2:45-Ten Legs. Nine Hands vs. Hard to Kill, Easy L Radical Eclectics We Will Let You Score vs. Paul Radich and 4 Theologians Stepan 4 to Beat 
2:15 -Mom Always Said Don't Play Ball in the 4:00-The Board Bangers vs. Lethal Weapons 2:15-Rabid Dawgs vs. Rex St. Ruffians 2:00 -Air Rullan vs. Economics 3:30-Who Farted vs. Goldfinger & the 4 Pinkies House vs. The Plummers II 4:45-Team# 626 vs. Pangborn's Third Floor Free 3:00 -Have Gun Will Travel vs. Laser Jocks II 2:45 -Satanic Majesty's Request vs. The Blows 4:t5-LaPolla Recourse vs. Viva La Gipp 3:00-At Least We Ain't the Cubs vs. The Blues Fallin' Five 4:00-Earway, Toecheez & 3 Other Secretions vs. 3:30-5 Zorched Idiots vs. Nachos 5:00-Team #: 340 vs. Paula & the 4 Ballhandlers Brothers 5:30-Mutant Comers vs. Tequila Mockingbird NO Employers That Still Have Children & Even 4:15-On vs. Unit&J Demonic Front II 
4:00 -Holy Sorell vs. Pangborn Express Less Health Insurance 5:00-D1gger's Dream Team vs. Mother Popcorn Lyons 11 4:45-Get Out. Get Out Now vs. 4 Dudes Yorst Bookstore 9 4:45-4 Officers & a Gentlemen vs. LBBR 2:00 -The Enemy & 4 Guys Who Want to Die vs. 
5:30 -Shoot The Rock vs. Pittsburgh Is Weak t :30-The Teeth vs. Team No: t92 5:30-Fighbng Irish II vs. Lonely Lads Stepan 5 The Village People 
2:t5-4 Dogs & a Scared Fire Hydrant vs. We Give 2:00 -In the Mix vs. Wave, You're "Dick Addis" 2:45-The Barnyard Animals vs. The Phons· Boys Stepan 3 Good Video 2:45 -The Boyz vs. 4 EEs & a Geek Business 3:30 -Phenylketonuriacs From Hell vs. League of 
t :30 -OFORS vs. The Dockworkers 3:00-Minnie Mights From Hell vs. Fightin' Cajun Sunday's Games April 1 Major J II & Justice For All 2:t5-Mission Impossible vs. Fish Killers Codwedges 3:30 -Hutch Bucks vs Herman & the Heated 4:t5-Panama Frank & the Gringos ... vs. Hans & 3:00-The Slammin' Simpsons ... vs. 3 on 2 4:00-Innkeepers vs. Toothnt's Stepan 1 Wombipines From the Abyss Franz & 3 Other Guys Who Will Pump You Up 
4:00 -JEPOG vs. The Travelin' Dinglebenrles 4:45 -The Losers vs. The Rods 2:00 -Flamingo Dancers of Death vs. Cathy & the 4:15-Paul Payee & the Godfathers of Cred~ vs. 5:00 -Remember H's Stephan vs. Global Stiffness 4:45-Salous vs. Eddie and the Cruisers 5:30 -Weadened Warriors I vs. Weakened 8-Balls Prof. Honk Asks·.. Matrix 
5:30 -Long Shots vs. Bay Patrol Ready For Action Warnors II 2:45 -Drive By vs. Ode to Vic T abek 5:00-Steve Eats the Toast vs. 3 Zona-bonas. The 
3:30-We've Always Been Buster Douglas Fans York Dorl< and Somebody From Quincy Stepan 4 Bookstore 10 vs. Obviously We Have A Drinkin' Problem Lyons 12 
t :30 -Sport Death vs. Call Us a Bye t :30 -Jeff Douglas Doesn't Score But We Will vs. 4:15-Vinny & McFrogwops vs. 5 Guys Lookin' To 2:00 -Inchon Invasion vs. Doggy Angst 2:15-Numb Chucks vs. Drew a Blank A Teapot, A Railing, Hoover & 2 Other Things That Score This Spring Stepan 6 2:45 -Jamere Jackson. Phil Sheridan & 3 Other 
3:00 -The Hardware Store vs. Stick It You. Muthas Leave a Marl< on Sips' Body 5:00 -Macho Squad vs. Enigmatic Nemesis 2:00 -Whatever vs. One Woman Is Enough For Guys Who Won't Score This Year vs. The Hos 
4:00 -5 Guys wlo a Prayer vs. We Heard This Is 2:15 -Gangster Disciples vs. Manifest Destiny These4 Men 3:30-Anti-Slug Team vs. Jimmy Johnson Fan The Best Chance To Score At NO 3:00 -Pepe & The 4 Gringos vs. Club Meerschauw Stepan 2 2:45-Digger, Elway. & 3 Others Done in Digger Club & 5 Other Guys 4:45-By vs. Team Trump 4:00-Total Ale-t90 vs. The Old & The Injured 2:00 -Westhead's Warriors vs. The Domino's vs. Salad 4:t5-Buster D1d n. So Can We vs. Rodents of 
5:30 
-Grand vs. Marilyn Chambers' Fantasy 4:45 -Faculty Jokes vs. The German Express Pizza Team 3:30-Hasselhoff. Monk. Gameshow. Woody, and Unusual Size 

5:30 
-First Round Miracle vs. Investment Office 2:45 -Bass Boys in the Buff vs. Apocalypse & the 4 Some Chuck vs. Hokin'. The Bobo 5:00-HYou Don't Let Us Win We'll H~ You Really, Stepan 5 Opt10n Without a Future Horsemen 4:t5-Small, But Huge vs. Mullin's Men Really Hard ... vs. War Picks IV: Game Overdue t :30-Demon Tortfeesers From Hell vs Shirts 3:30-Jack's Lumpster's vs. Team#: 520 5:00 -Remember Denver??? vs. Billy's 1st Mission 


Top NBA Shooters 
Michael Jordan's 69 point performance on March 28th put him among the top ten NBA individual scoring record holders, as ranked below 
with opponent and date: _S_co_r_e__P_Ia_~y_e_r___________O_w_n__te_a_m__ 100 Wilt Chamberlain Philadelphia vs. New York 78 Wilt Chamberlain Philadelphia vs. Los Angeles Dec. 8, 1961 73 Wilt Chamberlain Philadelphia vs. Chicago Jan. 13,1962 73 Wilt Chamberlain San Francisco at New York Nov. 16, 1962 73 David Thompson Denver at Detroit April9, 1978 72 Wilt Chamberlain San Francisco at Los Angeles Nov. 3, 1962 71 Etgin Baylor Los Angeles at New York Nov. 15, 1960 70 Wilt Chamberlain San Francisco at Syracuse March 10, 1963 69 Michael Jordan Chicago at Cleveland March 28, 1990 68 Wilt Chamberlain Philadelphia at Chicago Dec. 16. 1967 68 Pete Maravich New Orleans vs. New York Feb.25,1977 
• The "vs" terminology refers to games played on neutral ground 
AP/lee Cervera 
Friday, March 30, 1990 
Names 
continued from page 24 
the Meaning of Michael the Deerhunter Parts I and II and the cube of the meaning? We've Got To Do This You See" takes much longer. 
There are those with names after their heroes in Michelle Hamrick Is a Fabulous Babe and a Certified Meteorologist, Wave You're Dick Addis, Pete Gillen Fan Club, The Beaver Cleavers, Simpsons, The Clydesdales, We Support Dolly Parton and Westhead's Warriors. 
Teams 20, 36, 92, 192, 201, 206, 248, 260, 340, 357, 361, 481, 487, 493, 497, 520, 539, 566, 624, 630, 641, 643 and 664 either didn't come up with names or had good ones that were censored. 
Some teams are honest about their chances -Forfeit, One Game and Out, Five Guys Without a Prayer, You Gonna Beat the Heck Out of Us -while others are boastful -You Are Gonna Lose and Eleven Games for Five Bucks. 
The all-vain name goes to Raul Gonzalez, Raul Gonzalez, Raul Gonzalez, oh Raul, while Kristin better be hot for Four Guys Who Can't Shoot and Kristin. 
As usual, Notre Dame bas­
@199011f&T 
ketball coach Digger Phelps re­ceived the most references in the name game. Fifteen teams have some variation of his name in theirs, ranging from Digger's Offense, Pete's Logic and Three Other Things That Don't Work to Digger, Elway and Three Others Done in Denver. 
But not all of those references to Phelps are negative. 
Members of Digger's NIT Express are already on the bandwagon for this fall's pre­season tournament. 
Bookstore action begins with the Hall of Fame game today, and the players on Parts Unknown Weight Unknown put out a lengthy press release to tout themselves. 
Mr. X 1: deadly 97 percent hook shot from three-point land and has scored 50 points on 16 occasions. 
Mr. X2: 16 high school letters, MVP of 1989 McDonald's High School Classic, "could be another Michael Jordan." 
Mr. X3: Wisconsin native cho­sen for "expertise in cheese," averaged 43.6 points in high school. 
Mr. X4: former JUCO Athlete of the Year, chose current team over UNLV, Michigan, Georgetown and Potsdam. 
Mr. X5: won spelling bee in first grade. 
The Observer 

IMPROVE YOUR 






COMMUNICATION SKILLS. 

1~1 sss ~1~2 1111 

aoll nuuu.nu l 
414t 6==-'" l \ ' sss 
An L'fi&[Card helps you rommunicate better, because you can use it to call from all 
kinds ofplaces. Uke afriend's, or apay phone, or out on the road. Yo~ do~t eve~ nee<? to 
have aphone in your name to get one. And every month you get an ttenuzed bill statmg 
where and when you used the carcl. 
To apply for the A1&fcard, call us at 
ATs.T
1800525-7955, Ext.630. Now, ifonly it were that easyto improve 
The right choice. your grade point average. 
page 17 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
"Basically, they are the same team that beat us last year 5­4," said Assistant Coach Brian Kalbas. "They are really ex­cited because this is the first time we have played down there. Miami is a talented group of players. It is impor­tant for us to take each match one at a time. Also, it is critical for us to get off to a fast start and establish dominance in a hostile environment." 
Yes, the Miami contest is critical, but the match in the back of Notre Dame tennis team's mind is the Wisconsin battle. In what could well de­cide the Midwestern NCAA tournament representative, the Irish will face a very solid, deep Badger team that owns a six­year winning streak against Notre Dame dating back to the 1983 season. 
The 12-5 Badgers possess the credentials and the talent to dash the hopes of the 18-3 Irish. To date, Wisconsin has notched victories against Kansas, Minnesota and No. 5 Cal-Irvine. 
"Wisconsin is a very deep squad with three excellent dou­bles teams," explained Kalbas. "In singles, they are solid one through six. Their number three doubles team is ranked nationally and that tells how deep they are. It is important for us to concentrate on each individual match and if we do that we will be in good shape." 
This weekend could acceler­ate the fortune of the Notre Dame tennis program that un­questionably did not expect to be in this position so soon in a rebuilding year. It could also squash the hopes of young, aspiring team. the Irish won't be the only ones interested in the outcome of the weekend ac­tion; the NCAA selection committee will keep a close eye on the Midwest. 
"We are in competition with three or four teams, including Wisconsin, for the Midwest re­gional bid," said Kalbas. "This weekend is extremely important as far as the NCAA goes. The Wisconsin match is one more step that we have to take. Our win against Indiana was the first key, and the match against Wisconsin is the second key. In order to go, we have to beat Wisconsin." 

DENVER (AP) -First is the look, the ~ounddog eyes, the hands-behmd-the-neck slouch on the bench. 
Then there's the nickname,
j 
Tark th_e Shar~.
1 \ l N~xt IS the City_. where books don t necessanly relate to ~lasses and !he Stri~ has noth­mg to do w1th steahng a bas­ketball. And finally is the philosophy that the rules are ridiculous, an
'l outlook embodied by the quip
l' -maybe only half in jest ­
\' that it's better to accept trans­fer players because their cars are already pa~d for. Could anythmg be more ap­propriate than Jerry Tarkanian coaching a team nicknamed the Rebels? 
Lest there be any doubt, though, that the 59-year-old Tarkanian is a real, live bas­ketball coach, not just a Las Vegas act, look at the record: 
Wins 563, Losses 119 in 22 seasons, an 83 percent winning percentage, tops among active coaches. At UNLV alone, it's 44 7-102 over 17 seasons. 
Still, something is missing: an NCAA championship. Tark's Runnin' Rebels have made it to the Final Four twice, but never as far as the final game, a fail­ing that even the usually pes­
Tark looks to capture elusive title 
simistic Tarkanian is hopeful of correcting this time. 
UNLV is a 7-5 favorite to win it all, starting with Saturday's semifinal against Georgia Tech and then in Monday night's championship game against the Arkansas-Duke winner. 
"If we play well, we can beat any team in the country," Tarkanian says. 
If they do, though, Tarkanian insists it will only be sweet vic­tory, not sweet revenge for his long-running fight with the NCAA. 
"This has nothing to do with vindication," he says. ''I'm not even thinking about that." 
Only a day before the Rebels arrived in Denver, Tarkanian signed an agreement bringing to an end the NCAA's 13-year effort to suspend him from coaching an effort Tarkanian claims was part of a vendetta by NCAA officials to run him out of college basket­ball that began in the early 1970s. 
For all his success, Tarkanian is still viewed by many as an outlaw coach, a renegade who takes inner-city players unfit for college and casts them off when their use­fulness expires. 
And controversy seems to 

j 
iI 
( 
r 
,I 
AP Photo 
Danny Ferry (32), Bobby Hurley (11) and the rest of the Duke Blue Devils will be very comfortable within the cozy confines of McNichols Arena, where they will meet Arkansas on Saturday. 
follow the doleful coach, even in a year when his team began the season ranked No. 1 and won 33 of 38 games to reach the Final Four. 
Tark swears it's all unde­served. 
"This group has overcome more adversity than any I've had. and kept winning," he says. "There were other teams in the country who would have packed it in." 
It's quite a litany, to be sure. 
David Butler and Moses Scurry were suspended the first six games of the season for academic reasons, Scurry after flunking physical education. 
Anderson Hunt was sus­pended one game for falling two months behind on student loan payments. 
Eight other players were sus­pended one game for failing to repay incidental hotel charges run up on road trips during the 1988-89 season. 
On top of all that came a brawl after a game with Utah State in which Scurry punched Utah State Coach Kohn Smith. Scurry was suspended for one game, reserve forward Chris Jeter for three games for trig­gering the melee by throwing an elbow that cut an opposing player in the closing seconds. 
Friday, March 30, 1990 

AP Photo 
Greg Anthony, the UNLV guard who proved his toughness earlier this season by playing with a broken jaw and a sore nose, will lead the Rebels against Georgia Tech Saturday. 
Oliver's injury slows Tech's Lethal Weapon 
DENVER (AP) -Bobby Cremins says Lethal Weapon 3 is more like Lethal Weapon 2.7. 
Georgia Tech's high-caliber offensive trio -Dennis Scott, Kenny Anderson and Brian Oliver -has lost some of its firepower due to Oliver's nag­ging ankle injury. 
Through much of the season, Georgia Tech has won although Oliver has been slowed by a stress fracture in his left ankle. Now that his team has reached the Final Four, however, Cremins isn't so sure the ankle can outlast UNLV. 
In the NCAA tournament, Anderson, Scott and Oliver have scored 297 of Tech's 367 points, including 89 of 93 in Sunday's two-point victory over Minnesota in the Southeast Regional final. 
Oliver is still averaging more than 21 points per game, even though he's been at less than 100 percent. But scoring hasn't been the problem, and won't be the problem Saturday against UNLV. 
"We are a poor rebounding 
Duke will be comfortable in Denver 
DENVER (AP) -Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, who knows a thing or two about playing in small arenas, says the Blue Devils should feel right at home in the Final Four. 
The Blue Devils play their home games at Cameron Indoor Stadium, a 9,314-seat facility where boisterous Duke students jam together and sit within a few feet of the playing floor. 
The NCAA tournament's final three games are at Denver's McNichols Sports Arena, whose seating capacity of about 17,000 makes it comparatively small by Final Four standards. The next three Final Fours are in the Indiana Hoosier Dome, the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome and the Louisiana Superdome. 
"McNichols is a great arena," Krzyzewski said. "A small arena is louder and you feel the emotions more in a small arena." 
I: 
1: 
ij 
Duke has yet to win a na­tional title under Krzyzewski, but its semifinal Saturday against Arkansas will mark the Blue Devils' third Final Four appearance in as many years and their fourth in five seasons. 
Now in his 10th season at Duke and the school's win­ningest coach, Krzyzewski said there is no magic formula for his ability to lead teams deep into the NCAA tournament. 
"We've had good players and basically our good players have been healthy in March," he said. 
As was the case following their arrival in Denver on Wednesday night, the Blue Devils held a closed-door workout Thursday at Cherry Creek High School. At the ses­sions was Duke captain Robert Brickey, who has been nursing a hamstring injury suffered last weekend at the East Regionals. 
''I'm hoping by Saturday I'll be ready to go, because this is my last shot," the senior for­ward said. 
Duke and the rest of the Final Four participants are to con­duct open practices Friday afternoon at McNichols. 
Krzyzewski is not on com­pletely unfamiliar turf in Colorado. He spent 18 months stationed at Fort Carson after his graduation from Army in 1969. While at Fort Carson, Krzyzewski was player-coach for the post's basketball team. 
"We won the 5th Army championship," Krzyzewski said. "But I'll tell you, it was more for my playing than my coaching." 
Krzyzewski's latest team dropped three of its last four regular-season games and was a semifinal loser in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. 
But the Blue Devils came back strong in the NCAA tourna­ment, using a 35-point rout of Richmond as a springboard to the East Regional title. 
team," Cremins said, "and be­lieve it or not, Brian Oliver is one of our best rebounders. His injury has disabled us from be­ing a great rebounding team." 
Averaging 6.1 rebounds per game -third on the Yellow Jackets -the 6-foot-4 senior guard pulled down an average 
4.25 rebounds during the NCAA tournament. 
''I've been amazed at the way we've been been able to get by, but we've been getting by by the skin of our teeth," Cremins said. "Against LSU, Michigan State, Minnesota, a basket here or there and you've got another team here." 
Cremins was so troubled by Oliver's play against Louisiana State in the second round that he came close to resting him. Oliver knows that only rest will get him back to full strength ­but that would come too late for the Yellow Jackets. 
"It's still sore, but the more opportunity I get to stay off it the better it's getting," Oliver said. "The biggest thing is to rest so I can get more strength in it." 
He's tying to take it easy and using a special electrode bone­healing system to hasten the recovery. 
"This time of year, I can't af­ford to sit out because I can't take a a chance of getting rusty or lose my timing," he said. "If it starts really bothering me then I'll sit down." 
Oliver reinjured the ankle during the first half of a January game against N.C. State. He came back in the sec­ond half and ended up scoring 27 points. 
But following a win over Temple, the Yellow Jackets dropped their next three games, including an overtime loss to Virginia. 
·Against the Runnin' Rebels' strong inside game, Tech's re­bounding will be crucial. 
UNLV's front line grabs more than 26 rebounds per game, and the Rebels pulled down 56 in a 131-101 win over Loyola Marymount in the Western Regional final. 
Huery wins out over alcohol, looks to win for Razorbacks 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) -Credit Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson with an assist in saving Ron Huery's career. 
As a freshman, Huery was the Southwest Conference Newcomer of the Year. As a sophomore, he was .Arkansas' leading scorer. Last year, he was off the team and in an al­cohol abuse treatment pro­gram. 
And then there's this sea­son. 
Last Saturday, after the Razorbacks' lead over Texas had dwindled to three points, Huery was Coach Nolan Richardson's choice to replace an injured Arlyn Bowers at the free throw line. Huery made both ends of the one-and­one with 16 seconds left and the Razorbacks ad­vanced to the Final Four with an 88-85 victory. 
"I may have bailed him out of the last one," Huery said. "But he bailed me out of the tight spots. If it was another coach, I wouldn't be here. I'd be somewhere out on the streets." 
It was Richardson who suspended Huery last year afte"r problems involving alcohol. Huery was ar­rested in December, 1988, on a charge of driving while intoxicated. He even­tually pleaded no contest to the charge and paid a fine. 
He was also arrested July ~3. 1988, by Memphis po­hce, who stopped a car that was traveling at a high rate of speed with a flat tire. 

Friday, March 30, 1990 The Observer page 19 
lllini 
continued from page 24 
However, Murphy knows they have a number of other players that can play. 
"With Dave Christiansen (at shortstop), (pitcher/first base­man) Bubba Smith, and (catcher) Brian Mulligan." they have three players as good as any three on any team in the country," says Murphy. "They have tremendous balance. speed and power." 
In addition to all the talent on the field, the Illini have one of the elite field generals in col­lege baseball in Augie Garrido. Garrido was a legendary coach at Cal State-Fullerton, where he won a national championship and consistently produced College World Series partici­pants. 
The key combination to stop­ping the potent Illini attack will be seniors Brian Piotrowicz and captain Ed Lund. Piotrowicz, who is 3-2 with a 2.43 ERA and has issued only 8 walks in 3 3 1/3 innings, is a veteran of big games against Miami and Texas. Lund, a master at han­dling the Irish pitching staff, knows there isn't much room for error against Illinois. 
"Our pitching is going to have to be on," comments Lund. "We're going to have to spot the ball well and make big pitches." 
Piotrowicz is the key to the game for the Irish. If he has yet another good performance in a 
t-, STEP T WEEKEND
1\:h\j, ~bu3 ~:~fi 
Ashley Roland Jamey Hampton __...,. 
I'm So Optimistic 
April91h 8pm 
Washington Hall 
big game, the Irish will be suc­
cessful. 
"Brian's going to have to get all three of his pitches over." adds Murphy. "He'll have to open with strikes, but not throw too many good strikes. He must field his position and stay composed." 
If he does get in trouble, Murphy will call on Chad Hartvigson in the early innings, Tony Livorsi in the middle, and Dave Sinnes or Chris Mihalak late in the game. 
Offensively, the Irish need to keep getting the consistent play from Eric Danapilis, Cory Mee and Dan Bautch. Freshman Danapilis leads the regulars in hitting with an astounding .406 average. Mee (.295) is steady with glove at second and at the plate. Bautch provides speed, a great on base % (.460) and a steady average (.267). The Irish need to get big games from some of their big guns though, especially Joe Binkiewicz. 
"Bink has to improve greatly," Murphy said. "I'm disappointed in his perfor­mance so far, but he's a great kid and I know he can come out of it and help us this weekend." 
If pitching takes over the game as the Irish hope, look for the team that runs the bases better to come out on top. The Irish handle the bat well and have players up and down the lineup who can move the runner over or lay down a sacrifice. Bautch leads the team with 13 steals followed by Danapilis with nine and Lund with six. The Illini are not 
\ ' "T11oy"" dl,..,olor~lloNI 1~. 
jugg/ltS. ..,..,..,·­
rhly CtNif dine. trill! 1 ""Y young splril... e~-pltf«<iool on ltlf1t--
Titll -file,.,...oldone..• 
CarrimiH/11 s.no 
" 
-···1111111 to imlgino lllyrhing""""
~pllyfiJ,""""""Itld 
!ponllfiOOIIS.•.To SHit!emII Mri
...-..,,..... __,;.,._ 
....-by,_modap, IWICing 
_.,..ot100r:OIIal<lly.• 
slouches at running the bases 
either. 
"They have good speed and 
they run a lot," says Lund 
whose rocket arm will go a 
long way toward discouraging 
the Illini from running. "They 
like to mix it up, using a lot of 
bunt and hit and run." 
One thing the Irish must put 
behind them is Wednesday's 10­
8 loss to Purdue, a game which 
they led 6-2 in the 7th inning. 
"We have a better ballclub 
than Purdue," observed 
Murphy. "We let things like the 
umpires and the weather get to 
us. That's not a good sign for 
the mental makeup of a team 
but I have every confidence 
we'll bounce back." 
When a team has a game like 
that, it has to go back and find 
the things that made it success­
ful. 
"Tonight (Thursday) we 
stressed the fundamentals, got 
back to basics," commented 
Lund. "You just want to pound 
the wall because you know 
you're better than that. We just 
got back to doing the little 
things right." 
Besides the Illinois game, the Irish have three big games against St. Louis at Covaleski at 1:00 on Saturday and Sunday (two games). 
"St. Louis would love to beat us," Murphy claims. 
These games are just as im­portant to the Irish and Murphy as the Illinois game. Just don't tell ESPN that. 
Umpires reach agreement 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Major league umpires now say they will return to work Sunday under a new agreement that reimburses them for games canceled during the 32-day lockout and gives them three more vacation days during the regular season. 
Lawyers for the umpires' union and the leagues reached the out-of-court settlement Thursday. after U.S. District Judge Norma L. Shapiro re­opened a hearing on baseball's request for an order forcing the umpires back to work. 
The agreement also calls for umpires to receive regular-sea­son per diem payments begin­ning Saturday, and for the leagues to repay them for travel deposits made before January 31, but forfeited be­cause of the lockout. 
The American and National Leagues will divide a $48,500 payment among all umpires. 
Shapiro thought both sides had resolved the dispute Tuesday and announced in court that umpires would end a weeklong boycott and return to work Friday. Management and the union agreed to settle left­over differences by arbitration, and Shapiro appointed retired Common Pleas Judge Stanley Greenberg to do the job. 
But that fell through Wednesday when the owners' rejected Greenberg for undis­closed reasons. That brought both sides back to Shapiro's courtroom. 
And this time, the stumbling block was scheduling umpires for six regular-season games that were postponed from the first week of the season, American League president Bobby Brown said. 
"We were very anxious to get 
STEAKS 
. 
PRIME RIB SEAFOOD .:::
I . 
CALL NOW 683-1959 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 •GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 
Master Mini Warehouses 
a schedule they could work with and we could work with, and that's what took the time," he said. 
The union agreed to drop an unfair labor practice complaint it had filed with the National Labor Relations Board; the leagues agreed to drop their suit aimed at forcing the urn­pires back to work. 
"Fans are sick of squabbles, they're sick of legal terms," Brown said. "Now opening day can take place without any clouds on the horizon." 
In addition to Brown, those working on the final agreement included union chief Richie Phillips, National League presi­dent Bill White and their lawyers. 
"I think it's terrific," Phillips said. "It addresses all the problems we had -it increased the expenses for what's left of spring training, it compensates them for games lost in the lockout and it gives them an ex­tra three-game vacation during the season." 
The umpires boycotted the spring games, which started Monday, to protest not being consulted when regular-season games were rescheduled after the lockout ended. Minor league umps have been working the exhibition games. 
Shapiro, expressing impa­tience with both sides, opened the hearing Thursday by say­ing, "The parties have had am­ple time to resolve this. It is not complicated, it is not difficult." 
During testimony, manage­ment contended that umpires needed to work spring training to get ready for the regular season, while seven umpires testified that spring training wasn't necessary. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
,............,.................
.......,.... 
219-251-9925 

page 20 The Observer . Friday, March 30, 1990 
Crum's Cardinals captured the crown at 1980 Final Four 
Darrell 'Dr. Dunkenstein' Griffith led Louisville to championship over UCLA in dream season 
LOUISVILLE (AP) -The. Square Garden for a February 
won by 20 points. Poncho on them. That time I had to." early part of the .1979-80 sea­date with Jeff Ruland and little Wright's season-long slogan The Cardinals responded. son was a cakewalk for the Iona College. "A good team," was achieved. 'Ville was goin' They stayed close throughout Louisville Cardinals. They sailed remembered Rodney McCray, to the Nap. the second half and then, with through six straight victories, "but not better than us." The semifinal game would be time evaporating, they pounced. five of them in Freedom Hall. The Gaels were 17 points bet­against Iowa, a team that Trailing by five with 6 1/2 min­The only downer was the third ter that night, though, 77-60. prided itself on defense. But utes to play, Griffith converted game, a 77-75 win at Tennessee The Cardinals were embar­Griffith shredded the Hawkeyes an alley-oop pass from Brown when Scooter McCray tore up rassed in the next to last game on a blistering 13-for-21 from and nailed the accompanying his knee. of the regular season and their the field and 34 points as foul. "That took us from five to 
Then it was on to Hawaii for coach thought it was a good Louisville shot nearly 60 per­two real quick," Crum said. the Rainbow Classic. There was thing. cent from the field and won, Louisville was still down by a pit stop in Utah where the "The kids were so preoccu­80-72. four with under four minutes to Cards lost for the first time, pied with being in New York for DennyCrum Louisville's first two Final play, when UCLA's Kiki dropping a two-point decision, the first time, out pounding the Four appearances came in Vandeweghe stole a pass and 
71-69, and then another loss in pavement," he said. "It was a after losing his starting job to 1972 and 1975 and both times went the other way for what the second round at Honolulu, difficult atmosphere. Their Eaves. Branch unloaded and it was eliminated in the semifi­seemed an easy layup. Eaves set 77-64 to Illinois. minds were not on basketball. then held his breath as the ball nals by Crum's old school, out in what seemed futile pur­Jerry Eaves remembers how Iona killed us." caromed high off the rim and UCLA. It was ironic then that suit. Somehow, though, he disgusted he was with the Crum said he could see that then dropped neatly through when the Cards got to the overtook Vandeweghe and cut slump. "I was on the beach," he disaster coming. the net. championship game in 1980, in front of him, disrupting the said. "I saw the coach coming "They had too casual an atti­Final score: Louisville 71, there was UCLA, waiting for layup, forcing a miss. UCLA and I thought he'd be furious. I tude. They weren't concentrat­Kansas State 69. them again. never scored another point. The buried myself in sand." ing in practice. That loss "I don't know how we ever "You don't need additional Cards went on a 9-0 run to win 
Denny Crum never lost his changed them, though. It got won that game," Wiley Brown pressure when you're playing the game and the champi­cool. He said hello to his point their attention. The difference said. "After that, I was sure for all the marbles," Crum said, onship, 59-54. guard and kept right on walk­was night and day. If that was we'd win the national champi­"but UCLA was the team that It was a gratifying victory for ing. the only way to get better, then onship. I remember thinking beat us in the two previous Crum and his 33-3 team. 
When the Cardinals beat it was good to lose when we we'd been tapped on the shoul­Final Fours. Our teams were "Nobody expected us to do Nebraska 65-58 in a consola­did." der that night, that this was similar -not big but with good anything," he said. "But there tion game in Hawaii, it touched The Cardinals bounced back, our year." defense. I remember there was was great chemistry on that off an 18-game winning streak. beating Florida State in the fi­A week later, the Cardinals a stretch where neither team let team. They were the most com­Some of the wins were close nal regular season game and were in Houston for the next the other one score. We were petitive people I've ever calls -64-60 over Tulane at then taking the Metro tournament stop. Again they horrible in the first half." coached. They ju~didn't like to home, 56-54 in overtime at Conference Tournament at struggled into overtime, this After 20 minutes of the lose." Virginia Tech, 76-71 on the Freedom Hall with decisive vic­time against Texas A&M, but championship game, Louisville road at St. John's and 61-57 at tories over Memphis State and they pulled away in the extra was losing by a bucket and 
American
Cincinnati. In the end, it seemed Florida State, again. session for a 66-55 victory. Crum was furious. In the Louisville's pressure defense Now it was on to the NCAA That earned them a date with dressing room, he used words 
Red Cross 
always paid off. Tournament. First stop, LSU with the winner headed for like chokers and rum-dums. 
"We were very organized," Lincoln Neb. for the Midwest Indianapolis and the Final "We were horrible in the first l Darrell Griffith said. "We Regional against Kansas State. Four. Griffith was thrilled be­half," he said. "I had never got­!\ didn't just run and shoot. We The Big Eight champs forced cause it meant a game against ten on them before. I got on were an up-tempo team. If you the Cardinals into overtime. a longtime friend, Louisville na­them then. I just told them it 
\ 
went to a half-court game, we'd Griffith fouled out in the extra tive Rudy Macklin. But the was a shame to have come that pressure you. You'd get behind session and when the game matchup never came off. far and then to not play with and then you were in our came down to one last shot, it Griffith was foiled by foul trou­intensity. If they got beat be­game." went to his replacement, co­ble and forced to the bench cause the other team was bet­
\ I 
It all worked very well, until captain Tony Branch, a forgot­early. Meanwhile, Brown shut ter, that's fine. But not to lose the Cardinals came to Madison ten man in his senior season down Macklin and the Cards that way. It was rare that I got 
************************************************** 

• iC iC Some changes are occurring at Adworks ~ 
~ Look Bill, Adworks is looking for and we'd like you to be a part of them. ~ • some new talent for next year/ • 

J' iC Adworks is looking for people interested iC i( in the following areas: iC 
• iC iC • Production Manager iC : · Directors of Client Relations : iC · Account Executives -tc
. .
·~~ 
iC · Typesetters iC iC · Resume Consultants iC iC • Novelty Artists iC : • Director of Finance : iC · Accountant iC 
i ' i( Adworks is where you can get REAL experience iC I' I iC in a business setting. We are an Advertising and:
I! , 
: Promotional Agency serving the Notre Dame iC iC community. Adworks is going places. iC 
I 
l 
iC Let us bring you along with us. iC 
I 
·r •
I 
1/ 
iJ 
! 
:I ! 
I•· • iC
; ! : 
I 1. • • • iC • iC 
ie 301 LaFortune • 2:30-5:00 pm • (219) ADW-ORKSie 
• iC 
•************************************************.. 
-----··--------------------------------------------------~ 


Friday, March 30, 1990 
The Observer page 21 
SPORTS BRIEFS ~F'E7 shuttle buses will be provided to the Notre Dame vs. llhno1s baseball game at Coveleski Stadium on Saturday. 
The game will be televised by ESPN. The shuttle will leave the main circle at 6:30 and 7 p.m. and depart immediately fol­lowing the game. 
The first 500 fans at Saturday night's Notre Dame baseball home opener vs. Illinois will receive a free Notre Dame baseball. The game is scheduled to begin at 7:30 p.m. at Coveleski. 
The Annual Hall of Fame Game will be held today at 4:30 on the bookstore courts. The Bookstore Tournament will then start on Saturday the 31st . 
Mud Volleyball schedules may be picked up in the SUB office. 
Reebok Supershot Contest sign-ups will be Monday, April 2 from 6-8 p.m. in the SUB office. 
The NROTC Basketball team, after a recent first place finish at the University of Dayton tournament, heads to the Great Lakes ~aval Training Center to participate in a tournament this weekend. The field consists of teams from 12 midwest NROTC units. 
The Water Polo Club will host its Spring Invitational this weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center. On Friday Notre Dame "A" will meet Eastern Michigan at 8:30 p.m. and Notre Dame "B" plays Penn State at 9:30 p.m. Games Saturday will run from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. . 
The Notre Dame women's softball team's doubleheader with Loyola was rained out yesterday. The Irish will travel to Bradley Saturday for a doubleheader. 
Begin 
crmtinued from page 24 
have been installed where 
needed, and maintenance has 
installed pads where needed on 
the backboard poles. 
Bookstore's governing committee has changed the wording in some of its eligibility rules because of past problems with differing interpretations of the rules. McGee said that the committee's decision on interpretation of the rules of the tourney will be final in all cases. 
Bookstore has also had problems in the past with peo­ple who illegally play for two different teams. McGee says he and his committee will do what they can to spot players who cheat in this way, but the size of the tournament precludes the exhaustive review of rosters which would be necessary to catch every infraction. 
"The only thing we can do is check up on it if somebody comes up and reports it to us. With a tournament this big you can't have a sure system," said McGee. 
The Hall of Fame game, 

MONDAY 
* 
Donuts and Hot Chocolate 

* 
Crossword Puzzle Contest 

* 
Movie Night with Popcorn 


WEDNESDAY 
* 
Dining Hall Lunch 

* 
Pine Wood Derby 

* 
Dating Game/Pizza Party 

* 
Senior Bar Night 


ND lax travels west for tournament 
By PETE LAFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be looking to soar past the Air Force Academy this evening in a pivotal game to be held at the San Diego State .Tournament. The Irish will then take on either the host team or Texas Tech tomorrow in the second round of the four­team tournament. 
Notre Dame (3-3) will be looking to take a crucial first step toward an elusive NCAA bid in battling the Falcons (2­2), a team that captured the NCAA berth in 1988. The series stands at 1-1, as the Irish pre­vailing last year 10-7 at home while the Falcons won 14-8 two years ago in Colorado Springs. 
"I think every player on our team wants to play in the NCAA tournament and that's a very important goal for our pro­gram," said Irish second-year coach Kevin Corrigan. "We feel that if we do what we should, then the bid will take are of it­self. It's something that we're not going to talk about every­day." 
The first thing the Irish have to do is beat Air Force, and then wait until the season-end­ing clashes with Michigan State and Ohio State to see where they stand. All four teams are again considered to be the main contenders for the western bid, which was introduced in 1987 to increase interest in the tradi­tionally eastern sport and has twice been captured by the 

which will be begin Friday at and Kathy Cunningham will 
4:30 on the Bookstore courts, take the court for the All-Stars, will pit the Bookstore Celebriif who will be coached by Athletic All-Stars against Parts Director Richard Rosenthal. Unknown Weight Unknown. Mr. Xl, Mr. X2, Mr. X3, Mr. X4 
Tony Rice, Keith Robinson, and Mr. XS will play for Parts Tim Crawford, Derrick Johnson Unknown, Weight Unknown. 
Brian McHugh 
Spartans (in 1987 and 1989). 
The Irish have been in con­tention for the bid every year including 1988, when they lost to Air Force early but beat Michigan State late in the year. But a win over the Falcons tonight is viewed as a must if the Irish are to make their first trip to the NCAA's. 
"We really need to get this win, especially since it's on a neutral field," said senior co­captain Mike Quigley. "If we can get past Air Force, then we will be in the driver's seat when Michigan State and Ohio State come here to play us. We've been too close in the past to not play our best now." 
Air Force will field a typically fast and athletic squad which should challenge the speed of the Irish to create a fast-paced, high-scoring game. And, as usual, the game between the growing rivals should be quite physical and emotional. 
"Every time we play them it seems to be a really fast-paced and intense game," said Quigley, who went to high school with several of the Air Force players, including his younger brother, Paul. "But if we play like we are capable of, there shouldn't be many prob­lems." 
The Irish again will be look­ing for the one-two scoring punch of their starting attack­men, senior Brian McHugh and sophomore Mike Sullivan. Sullivan leads the Irish with 16 points (7 goals, 9 assists) while McHugh has chipped in 14 points (9 goals, 5 assists). 
Sophomore Brian Schirf, who had made four straight starts on the crease, did not travel with the team after suffering a separated shoulder in last week's win over Wooster. Junior Mike Sennett is expected to return to the start­ing lineup for Schirf. 
Middie John Capano, mean­while, is expected to return to the starting lineup after miss­ing the Wooster game with a lacerated forearm. Freshman goalie Chris Parent will be starting his seventh game, hav­ing already established an Irish record 29 saves in one game while carrying a .578 save per­centage into tonight's contest. 
McHugh currently ranks sev­enth on the Irish all-time scor­ing lsist with 85 career points. He needs only seven more points to move into the sixth spot. Quigley currently stands 13th with 49 career points and needs nine more points to move into the twelfth spot. 
"They're talented, but we've gone up against people like The Bushwackers and Demolition," said Mr. X3, who claims to have averaged 43.6 points for Our Lady of the Sacred Foot in high school. 
ENGINEER'S 
WEEK APRIL 2-6 

TUESDAY 
* 
Ice Cream Social *Egg Drop 

* 
Billiards Tournament 


THURSDAY 
* 
Calculator Toss 

* 
Pie Eating Contest 

* 
Beacon Bowl 


FRIDAY 


* Picnic with Volleyball 
* BE SURE TO CONSULT YOUR "OFFICIAL GUIDE TO ENGINEER'S WEEK" FOR IMPORTANT TIMES, PLACES AND DESCRIPTIONS 

Irish striders journey to Houston 
marks, at those distances, in
By MICHAEL MALODY 
Notre Dame history. This
Sports Writer 
weekend, he will compete in the 
To open the outdoor season, 1500 meters. the Notre Dame track team will Searcy, one of the best travel to Houston this Saturday quarter miters in Notre Dame to face Drake, Harvard and history. will compete in a star Rice in a meet annually studded 400 meters field. In nicknamed "The Meeting of the this event, he will face Rice star Minds." Gabriel Luke, the NCAA indoor 
Irish coach Joe Piane is 400 meter champion, and 

l \ 
l 
approaching this meet in per­Drake standout Kevin Little, spective. "I have one goal," he who finished third in the World maintained, "for the team to Indoors at the 200 meters. compete aggressively." Some Searcy will also run both relays. 10 to 12 runners, he contends, According to Piane, the meet are capable of joining team­will be very competitive. The mates Ryan Mihalko and Matt Drake Ducks are strong in field DeAngelis, both javelin throw­events (in particular, the shot ers, in qualifying for the IC4A put and long jump) and middle Championships in New Haven distances, while Harvard is this May. armed with seven talented At the top of the list of distance runners and Rice, hopefuls are senior captains which will host the tournament, I i. Mike O'Connor and Yan Searcy, is strong in the sprints and 
I IJ· 
both returning this season distances. He is optimistic, but 
)! 
from injury-plagued junior contends, "It's anyone's guess 
i\ 
campaigns. who will win." 
Coach 
continued from page 24 
die. "C'mon, c'mon, hustle!" he shouted, when he beat the de­fensive backs to· the huddle. "Don't be walking back in here!" 
During the 1988 and 1989 seasons Darnell served as de­fensive coordinator at Florida, and for seven weeks of the lat­ter he acted as head coach. On October 8 Gator Head Coach Galen Hall resigned, and Darnell guided Florida to a 3-4 record as interim coach before being replaced by the new per­manent head coach, Steve Spurrier. During Darnell's two years at Florida the Gators ranked third in the nation in total defense. 
"When you come to Notre Dame, number one, it's a great honor, and number two, it's a great responsibility," said Darnell at the press conference on Jan. 18 when he accepted the position on the Notre Dame staff. "When we take the field, people expect to see the pinna­cle of collegiate preparation and the very best that can be done." 
Now Darnell finds himself all over the field for Notre Dame, trying to bring his defense to a type of pinnacle he discussed only two months ago. And the problems of which he and Holtz complain? 
page 22 The Observer Friday, March 30, 1990 
O'Connor. who was sidelined 
r------------proved to be that." According to Steitz' annual 
last spring with a stress 
"There's a higher level that we're going to reach," said Darnell. "Lately we've tried to get the fundamentals, but there's so much to be done. There are a few basic things in Lou Holtz's defensive philoso­phy and we're not there yet. 
"The talent is there-we've just got to get that blend where the defense moves easily. We're getting there, some are nearly there, and some are a step away, but we're going to get there." 
After 21 years of coaching, Darnell has not had many problems integrating himself into the Notre Dame scheme. 
"Notre Dame as a place, the Notre Dame people, they give you a chance," he said. "They're open-minded, receptive, and I appreciate that. If things aren't working right, the problem will be right in front of your nose." 
But for now, with spring football only one week old, much work is left to be done. With so much coaching and in­struction ahead of him, Darnell is guardedly optimistic. One might say his optimism, like spring football, is in its rudi­mentary stages. 
"Right now the optimism stands because I know it (the defense) is going to work itself out. Right now we have things that we have to do. In time, the expectations are that somehow, some way, we've got to have an outstanding defense." 
Women's tennis squad travels northward to face Easte~n Michigan, Michigan State 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
The women's tennis team will attempt to improve its 10-6 record when it heads north this weekend to face Michigan State on Saturday and Eastern Michigan on Sunday. 
The Irish snatched a close 5-4 win from Michigan State last ypar, but Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback expects a wider margin of victory against the team tomorrow. 
''I've heard that they're down a little this year from last year," said Louderback. "They've lost to a couple of teams that we've beaten and they're ranked thirteenth in the region." 
Louderback expects a stronger challenge to come from the Eastern Michigan squad, which is currently ranked tenth in the region. The Irish. who are ranked fifth, scored an impressive 7-1 vic­tory over Eastern Michigan last season, but Louderback pre­dicts a closer contest this year. 
"They were at the Eck 
Doubles Classic this year and 
they have good doubles teams," 
said the coach. "Their doubles 
teams make them a little 

The Observer/Trey Raymond 
The Irish women's tennis team will have to survive this weekend's road matches at Eastern Michigan and Michigan State without star first 
singles performer Tracy Barton. 
stronger than Michigan State. It should be close." Although these are the only 
Injuries suffered by the Irish two serious injuries on the squad may make the matches team, fatigue may be a factor even tougher. Tracy Barton, this weekend for the rest of the Notre Dame's top singles road-weary Irish. The squad player, will not play in either made it through a four-day, match due to an injured elbow. four-game stretch last week­Notre Dame's Kristy Doran is end, but the tough schedule suffering from a wrist injury may be taking its toll. and is questionable for the Although the team had a few weekend. days off at the start of the 
NCAA ,considers changing 3-point distance 
DENVER (AP) -The father Notre Dame coach Digger of college basketball's 3-point Phelps, chairman of thee NABC shot doesn't want any alter-board of directors, said the ations to his child. board is in favor of moving the 
But the National Association 3-point line back nine inches ­of Basketball Coaches is con-from 19 feet, 9 inches to 20 sidering lengthening the 3-point feet. 6 inches, which would cor­line, as well as allowing offi-respond with the international cials to consult television re-line. plays in the last minute of a "The 3-point line was put in game. because there was too much 
"I feel right now there is very post play and not enough out­little justification for moving side shooting," he said. "The the line back," Ed Steitz said. board now feels it's overbai­"The rules committee always anced the other way. Nine intended the 3-point shot to be-inches would, we feel, be a way come an integral part of the to balance the game so inside game and not a last second, play is as important as outside desperation effort, and it's play." 
week, several team members are suffering form colds which may hinder their performance. 
Louderback, however, is con­fident of his team's strength and their ability to end the sea­son with a string of victories. 
"We have nine matches left," said the coach, "and we could easily win all nine of them." 
survey of 2,421 coaches, refer­ees. administrators, and bas­ketball writers, 53 percent of the NCAA coaches and 55 of all those responding to t~e s~rvey want to leave the 3-pomt Ime at 19-9. 
But the results have been close enough to provoke debate. This year, 46 percent of Division I coaches supported the status quo and 44 percent suggested the line be moved back to the Olympic distance. Coaches at the Division II and III level were more satisfied with the current distance, sup­porting it by margins of 60 and 57 percent. 
fracture, placed fifth in the
I II
I • 
NCAA indoor championships in the 3000 meters earlier this 
WANNABE ON TV!
month. His times in the indoor ! if " 
mile and outdoor 5000 meters each rank among the top four 
Help IIJrui®IHI IIM®ANII"lnf support 
)\ 
NO BASEBALL
,, 
'· 
FREE 
in the season home opener against 
! ·~ 
ILLINOIS.
TANNING
p 
The game starts at 7:30pm on Saturday March 31 at Coveleski. It will be broadcast LIVE on ESPN. The ATHLETIC DEPT. is sponsoring FREE SHUTTLE BUSES at 6:30 and 7 (More if needed). FREE ND BASEBALLS to the FIRST 500 fans, as well as a BANNER CONTEST. Admission for students is $1.00, $2.00 for adults, and box seats are $4.00 
or FREE with BLUE& GOLD card. 
ii. NEXT TO VENTURE Da11v 9-6 


GRAPE RD .. MISHAWAKA Sat 9-6 277-7946 Sun. 11·5 

' 
I, I 
ii 
j; 
1\ 

Friday, March 30, 1990 page 23
The Observer 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Friday 
4 p.m. Lecture by Charles Moore. Annenburg Audito­rium. Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by School of Archi­
tecture. · 
4:30p.m. Lecture, "DioJ?hantine Approximation and the Theory of Holomorphic Curves," Professor Pit-Mann Wong, Notre Dame. Room 226 Math Building, Coffee 4 
p.m: Room 201. Sponsored by the department of mathe­
matics. 
CAMPUS Friday 
7:30p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival. JACC Arena. 
7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Film, "Sea of Love," Annenburg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Baked Pollock Sesame Cheese Lasagna Cheese Stuffed Pepper Cod Cakes w/Sauce 
ACROSS 27 Napoleonic marshal
1 Staff of life 
28 Civet's African 
6 Used a besom 
cousin 
11 Crate content 
29 Monetary
12 Answer to a 
rewards
lieutenant 
31 Golden: Comb. 
14 Cassowary and 
form
ostrich 32 Tavern quaffs 
15Calm 33 Bangkok native 
11 Superlative ending 34 Talk indistinctly 18 Screen from 37Wins view 
41 "The Story of 20 Govt. agency -H.,"1975 21 Capital of film Calvados 
42 ·-walks in 23 Oozing beauty "· 24 Stag or buck Byron 25 President James 43 Hat worn for sun -Garfield protection 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

44Stoma 
45 Ages and ages 
4701d-time 
tear-jerker,"­Lynne" 48 Misplay 49 State of lawlessness 51 Native of: Suffix 52 Caused by an earthquake 54 What the hero of "The Natural" did 56 Discoverer of the Mississippi 57 Great geometrician 58 Mulching material 59 Horseshoes player's target 
DOWN 1 Grossly flattering 2 Baseball stat 3 Diner sign 4 Family of U.S. author James 5 Thrills for sky divers 6 Mawkish 1 Lean and lanky a Being: La~ 9 Sibilant signal 

10 Famous jeweler 26 Free-for-all 38 Kind of dog or schooner
28 Indian mountain chain 39 Hurried, to 13 Russian money Shakespeare 
11 Winter melon 
30 Saul's 14 Newscaster's grandfather 40 Located summary 42 Dugong
31 Greek letter 
45 Loos or O'Day
16 Be stationary in 
33 W.W. I battle the water 
46 Holler
sites 
49 Roman god
19 Dregs 34 Tricks 
so A hit song of 22 Noteworthy 35 Doted on 1979 24Carmen's 36 Juicy fruits 53 Concorde, e.g. creator 37 Thunder god 55 Wapiti 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 



~-~~~?.-.....·-Cl!:•o•az iil.I!UIIR 11 II WR W F PWIP.Rn WZS.i~~~-(;,~,);c)--Aill·-·''''l'-A'''·-911itl>l81f®l:--.. W////////////////7////////H////////////////////////////H/H//////~ ~////H///////H/H/H/////H////////////H///////A ¥/////////////H//H//H/H/////////////////////////Al 
~ ~ ~,,~. MOVIES lli!~llll ®ff lli'®lMl® @®lMl® (g@JlJl@rgjJ112~@
~ . .l· ~ ~
Jl&Jfi2fi2 
~ ~ ~ ~ • ,_,.,............ Friday, March 30 W@ @ '[G it W@ Jl ~ ~ Friday: The Package 4:3o p.m. ~ ~ 2:00 Jazz Symposium ~ ~ Saturday: True 8 eI i ever See Famous Domers, such as Tony Rice 7:30 Evening Session with ~ ~ and Tim Crawford show their stuff ND Jazz Band ~ ~ 8:00 and 10:15 when the celebrity team takes on ~ ~ Parts Unknown-Weights Unknown 11:30 Judge's Jam ~ ~ Cushing Auditorium on the Basketball Courts. ~ ~ $2.00 ~ ~ ~ 
~ .~
m.v///////////////H///////////////////H///.H/'//H/H/H/////H/H~ !W/AW'H///H//////////////////////////////////HH/..m 'Y/H/////H///////////////H/H/////H//////////////~
·-·­
·' 


The Observer/Pat Kusek 
Tom Sessi looks to pass ott as students prepare for the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Bookstore will officially begin with the Hall of Fame game at 4:30 this afternoon when Parts Unknown Weight Unknown meets the Celebrity All-Stars. The rest of the tournament will get under way Saturday at 1:30. 
The Observer/Trey Raymond David Dilucia and the Notre Dame tennis team will host the Wisconsin Badgers at noon on Saturday and travel to Miami of Ohio this afternoon for big matches with an NCAA bid at stake. 

\ ) 
. 
) 

~ 
Iff 
'1; i'\. 
1( I 
l) 
'J
'·' 
J1l ''1l~f!IId ( 
/:
'\ 
I~ :l Jli.. '' 
) ' 
,!. 
i. 

Sports 
On the road 
Irish lacrosse travels to San Diego, page 21 
Meeting Michigans 
Women's tennis journeys north, page 22 
Drama in Denver 
Final Four previews, profiles, page 18 
NO hosts Badgers Saturday after match at Miami of Ohio 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
For the majority of the past three years, an invitation to the NCAA Collegiate Tennis Championships was a product of the Notre Dame· players' imagination. But as March' winds to a close it is reality. 
With the focus of the Irish eyes on obtaining a regional bid, one of four that are given na­tionally, Head Coach Bob Bayliss's squad is putting it all on the line this weekend as his team travels to Miami of Ohio on Saturday and 
then makes  a quick return home to take  on  
Wisconsin,  the  top-ranked  team  in  the  
Midwest.  

All that Notre Dame has accomplished this season, i.e. its first ever national ranking, wins over No. 8 TCU, No. 20 Duke, then 24th­ranked West Virginia and No. 25 Minnesota, could become an exercise in futility the Irish fall prey to two of their most competitive Midwestern foes. 
On Saturday, the Irish will travel to Miami of Ohio to take on a very experienced, senior-ori­ented squad. Under the reign of Bayliss, the Irish have never knocked off Miami. And this year's journey could prove to be a measurable task. 
see TENNIS I page 17 
to  ensure  that playing condi­ 
tions will  be good.  New  nets  
see BEGIN I page 21  

Darnell fits in well with Irish 
By SCOTI BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
"What we have to achieve on 
defense is a comfort zone-to 
be fundamentally sound. There 
is nothing more important than 
that. To be fundamentally 
sound is the basis of football." 
If you guessed that these words came from a Notre Dame football coach observing spring drills, you are correct. If you guessed these sentiments came from Head Coach Lou Holtz, you're only half right. 
Though the indispensability of having a solid command of the basics is central in Holtz's philosophy, he did not utter these words. The above quote comes from Gary Darnell, new defensive coordinator and in­side linebacker coach. 
The fact is that the philoso­phies of Darnell and Holtz co­here to such an extent that you can almost interchange the names with the words. 
Consider Holtz: "The defense should come on. I just want to see us get better fundamentally and get to where we have to be." 
The inclination to panic about this mutual concern is still a long way off. In fact, such question marks on a team is only natural in spring football, especially when there are four coaches who are acclimating 
themselves  to  a  new  football  
team.  
Darnell,  former  assistant  

coach at Florida, is only the most visible of the new coaches. New on the Irish crew are de­fensive line coach Dick Bumpas, running back coach Peter Vaas, and receivers coach Skip Holtz, son of Lou. 
Darnell has taken to the Irish program with vigor. At practice on Wednesday, Darnell was jogging back and forth from watching his defensive platoon to instructing them in the bud-
see COACH I page 22 
Names are the name of the game in Bookstore's celebration of creativity
In this tourney, the game is the name or the name is the game, whichever you prefer. 
There are Viva Ia Gip, Paradise Jam, the Blue Brothers and Just Plain 
I
Ugly. Mix those with 
Unmarried Wfth Children, 

We Can Do Some Good 
Greg Guffey
Things, Peaches' Latenight All-Stars. Sports Editor 
Complement those with 693 other names and you have Bookstore Basketball XIX, maybe the most consistent event in the world. The hoops count one like always, the three-pointer is uninvented and roman numerals are still in style. 
But it's the name that counts, and this tourney has its share of good ones. 
Five Girls Without a Name Who Just Want to Play proba­bly won't play long, while the Jimmy Johnson Fan Club and Five Other Guys reflect that times change slowly. 
Five PW Girls Who Just Want to Play With Boys might help teams like ND Guys That Can't Score and Five Guys Lookin' To Score This Spring advance to the second round. 
Some teams like Earwax, Bye and On get to the point, but a team like "Prof. Houck asks 'What's the Story and What's see NAMES I page 17
L-----------------------------­
Irish baseball ready for ESPN spotlight 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
This week, you can't mention Notre Dame baseball without saying ESPN in the same breath. 
"The stuff with ESPN, that's over," states Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "It's time to take one more step. We're preparing for this game the same way we prepare for every game. " 
It's not that Murphy isn't happy with the fact his ballclub will be playing before a national TV audience Saturday night. On the contrary, he couldn't be happier, but now it's time to face the task at hand. That next step is not only facing the Illinois Fighting Illini (7:30 at Covaleski), but beating them. That will prove to be a formidable task. . 
"This is the most explosive team we'll face all year," explains Murphy. "They're a senior-ju­nior dominated team with a lot of maturity. We'll have our work cut out for us." 
Illinois has beaten Texas and Oklahoma twice, as well as other national powers Cal State-Fullerton, New Orleans, and Michigan. The Illini have two Team USA players in third baseman Mark Dalesandro (.317) and centerfielder Kevin O'Connor. However, 
see ILLINI I page 19 



