
VOL. XXIII NO. 9 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students attacked Mugging hits bar-hoppers 
By MONICA Y ANT 
Associate News Editor 
Walking the stretch between Bridget's and Club 23 was al­ways a normal activity for "Susan" and her friends. 

Getting robbed at gunpoint wasn't. from the first victim, Susan 
"Everyone walks the route," said. she said, "they think it's safe He then approached Susan. because you can see the other "He ripped off my necklace and bar at the end." grabbed my wallet," she said. 
It wasn't safe August 26, According to Susan, the at­when Susan, an ND student, tacker ordered the third girl, and three of her friends were saying, "Gimme everything you attacked on Francis and South got." The fourth victim had her Bend Avenues at 2:30a.m. by a wallet ready when he ap­man she described as black proached her, Susan said. with a large build, and who The attacker fled on foot with "flashed something silver that about $25 in cash, miscella­looked like a gun." neous identification cards, 
Susan and five of her friends keys, and a bank card, accord­were walking between the two ing to Lt. Norval Williams of bars when the man appeared the South Bend Police Depart­from behind some trees. Since ment. two of the girls had raced Although Susan wasn't posi­ahead of the group, only four tive that the man had a gun, were left to face the attacker, she said that even the threat of she said. a weapon should have made her 
"I saw him from the corner of more cautious. She added,"if my eye," she said. "He grabbed there had been other guys with Ready togo my friend, pointed what looked him, we would have been in a 
Egyptian troops wearing gas masks step into formation in the Saudi desert Tuesday. The Egyptians
like a gun at her, and said, whole lot of trouble." 

have sent about 2000 troops to Saudi Arabia to serve as part of the multination peace keeping force
'What do you think of this?'" 

see ATIACK I page 3 which is defending the Saudis against a possible attack by Iraq.
The attacker took the wa.J]p,t 

Bush acknowledges 'real' help from Soviets in the Gulf 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Meanwhile, the White House "Speaker Foley extended an ministration opposed direct to measure, but one which we Bush administration said announced that President Bush invitation to the president on economic aid as recently as last know is real and has been very Wednesday, four days before would address a joint se.ssion behalf of both chambers," the July at the economic summit of helpful" the U.S.-Soviet summit, that it of Congress next Tuesday night statement said. seven industrial nations in would take a fresh look at di­after returning from his week­White House aides said that Houston. Furthermore, Fitzwater said, rect economic aid for the Soviet end summit with Soviet Presi­the speech would deal primarily But, Fitzwater said of the So­the United States is "willing to Union in light of Moscow's dent Mikhail Gorbachev. Bush's with the Persian Gulf crisis but viets, "They have sent ships to talk" with the Soviet Union "real and very helpful support" topics, aides said, would include that Bush would also give law­the gulf. They have been sup­about a longstanding Soviet in the Persian Gulf. the summit and the gulf crisis. makers a rundown on his ses­portive. President Gorbachev proposal -revived on Tuesday 
The administration has pre­According to a White House sion in Helsinki with Gorbachev. has made some strong public by Foreign Minister Eduard viously rejected the idea. but statement, Bush had brought In pre-summit comments, statements" of support for the Shevardnadze -for a Middle presidential spokesman Marlin up the idea of the joint session White House officials seemed to U.N.-backed trade embargo East peace conference. Fitzwater said, "The Soviet co­appearance earlier in the day in be going out of their way to against Iraq. operation in the gulf has im­conversations with House praise the Soviets. He said Gorbachev's words The conference, which the pressed us to the point where Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Fitzwater said he was certain "have a political impact in the United States long has opposed, we are even more interested in Wash., and Senate Majority the issue of Western economic world of countries that have would seek to resolve all being supportive economically Leader George Mitchell, D­aid to Moscow would come up formally been aligned with the conflicts in the region, including if we can be." Maine. at Sunday's summit. The ad-Soviet Union that is very hard the Arab-Israeli dispute. 

ND to be linked up with local Cityline information network 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY News Writer  dents can dial directly into the category of his choice by a 4­digit touchtone system. These  Activities) only have one." This idea was initially brought to Cassidy by Glenn,  
Cityline, a local 24-hour tele­phone service, recently an­nounced the addition of new Notre Dame recordings which provide information about up­ topics each contain up to three minutes of data on the subject of his choice. Joe Cassidy, director of Stu­dent Activities, said, "It will  who suggested the program in an effort to expand on a pilot program used last year at Saint Mary's College. Glenn offered to expand on the Saint Mary's  
coming campus events. Sponsored by the South Bend  make it easier for students to access information about social  service, which handled approx­imately five to seven hundred  
Tribune and WSBT radio sta­ events."  calls  a  month,  and  Cassidy  
AP PhotoDiscovery rolls out The Space Shuttle Discovery is rolled out of the Vehicle Assembly Building en route to Launch Pad 39-8 Tuesday evening for an October launch carrying the Ulysses satellite.  tions, this service provides stu­dents and community members with information on more than 9,000 different topics. These subjects include special events such as movie listings, concerts, and football game times. Students can also gain access to doctor or dentist listings, local and national weather forecasts, and stock quotes, which are updated ap­proximately every half an hour. Interested students simply have to dial the number 674­0900 to get into the system. Then a computer operator will provide a menu, and the stu- In the past, students needing specific information were forced to listen to answering machines and wait for "five or ten minutes before they found out the information they'd ini­tially called for," he said. Cityline Manager Anita Glenn anticipates "probably three to four thousand calls a month," in the future. She believes it will be beneficial to Notre Dame students because it will save time and "eliminate a lot of un­necessary calls to LaFortune Student Center. We have 20 lines open, while they (Student  agreed to lend his support, be­cause it "looked like a great service." On August 28, Glenn "upgraded our system and added new topics, such as what's hot and what's not, horoscopes, joke of the day, and trivia lines. We revoiced in advance on tape and the transi­tions went very smoothly." Glenn welcomes all sugges­tions for the improvement of this new system. She can be reached in her Chicago Tribune Office at 233-6161. extension 228.  

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


----------------~-­
c.Pa::g::e=2===Jiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiir=======j~=========T~h~e~O~b:se~rv~e~r===============-~T~h=u~rs:d:ay, September 6. 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 




TheYear of Women needs broader focus 
Once again this Uni­versity has decided to broaden the perspec­tives of its students by dedicating the whole year to a par­ticular issue and this year it's women. As a 


woman, and especially Lisa Eaton 
as a gender studies concentrator. I ought Production Manager 
to be thrilled that the university is open minded enough to spend an entire year dealing with issues that are particularly close to my heart, but I'm not. I think that The Year of Women is an all time low in the history of "The Year of... 
The university hopes to raise the con­sciousness of the students by focusing this year on women's issues. This is an excellent idea, especially in view of the current state of male-female relations on this campus, but "The Year of..." context is not the proper place to do this. 
The objection I have to the whole idea is that this year is just a superficial and tem­porary remedy to problems that run very deep. Once this year is over, I predict that women's issues will follow the path of cul­tural diversity and the family to become just a fond memory for the administration to smile about. 
If the consci{msness of the student body is really going to be changed in respect to women's issues, it is going to have to be a long term process, not a quick fix remedy. The administration ought to make male-fe­male relations on this campus a permanent focus for the next few years. I propose, in­stead of the Year of Women, the Decade of Gender Relations. 
Secondly,. the Year of Women is directly relevant to less than half of the Notre Dame student body. If awareness is the goal of the university, it should choose a topic that every person on this campus can relate to directly. Women's issues are really only rel­evant to· women. Let's face it, no matter how liberated and understanding a guy may be, the Year of Women really does not apply to him. 
Cultural diversity was broad enough to encompass all types of people, as was the Year of the Family. Although the last two years have not been as enlightened as this year's topic, they were far more holistic. I think the university ought to strive to focus on issues that are important to alt students. 
Rather than emphasizing the differences between students, they ought to try to focus on the issues that will unite them. For ex­ample, the Year of Political Awareness or the Year of International Relations would be broad enough to be interesting to all people. 
I applaud the university's attempts to fo­cus on women's issues in a positive and constructive manner. I simply feel that they are being short-sighted in believing that the Year of Women will accomplish anything permanent in the way of change on this campus. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's S1aff:  
NBws Joe Moody Kitkat Kane  Sports Rich Kurz Frank Pastor  Business Sandra Wiegand Caroline Clarke  
Accent Shonda Wilson  Production Ann Buff  Graphics Bradford Boehm  
Cristina Ortiz Paul Pearson  Cheryl Moser Viewpoint  Circulation Chris Hanely  
Ad Design  Kathy Welsh  Lu Medeiros  
Kerry Clair Maria Blohm  Systems  
Tony Paganelli Amy Eckert  Mark Sloan Kevin Blot  
Cara Eckman  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~--------------~--------------------------· .. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 6. Lines show high temperatures. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © ~' ~ m 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Learn about the forests that are adjacent to campus-the unknown wilderness of Notre Dame. Come see the destruction that took place this summer at a slide presentation at the Center for Social Concerns-multipur­pose room, 7:30p.m. Thursday. 
German Club will meet Thursday at 7 p.m. in room 108 O'Shaughnessy. Anyone interested in German or Germany is welcome to attend this organizational meeting. Elections for Treasurer and Secretary will be held at this time. If you are interested but cannot attend this meeting, please call Tina at 283-2768 or Margaret at 283-3784. 
BACCHUS, a student run organization promoting responsible drinking on campus, is having an organiza­tional meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. Sorin Room LaFortune. All interested students are welcome. 
Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble will have their first practice Fri. Sept. 7 at 7 
p.m. in 115 Crowley. 
WORLD 
Pope John Paul II on Wednesday urged forgiveness and reconciliation in Burundi, a central African nation with a history of tribal warfare and repression of Roman Catholics. He also said the AIDS virus, which has ravaged Africa, was a moral issue that calls for changes in sexual behavior. The church condemns the use of condoms to check the spread of the deadly disease. The pope said the church has a duty to assist AIDS sufferers with health care and moral support. "These people often tend to close themselves in an anguished silence," he said. 
NATIONAL 
An extract from pokeweed plants can hamper reproduction of the AIDS virus within infected cells, suggesting a possible new approach to treating infected people. In test-tube experiments. the extract worked in tiny amounts that did not disturb key functions in uninfected cells, researchers said. The work is reported in 
Thursday's issue of the British journal Nature 
INDIANA 
State and local police officers began rounding up suspected drug dealers Wednesday in the culmination of an undercover investigation expected to net 76 arrests. Teams of state, city and county law enforcement officers had hauled in at least 45 suspects by Wednesday afternoon. The Indiana State Police investigation started in January 1989 by targeting mainly street-level dealers, according to Vanderburgh County Deputy Prosecutor Chris Lenn. 
A high school teacher has sued the local school board, contending its ban of his classroom use of the "f-word" violated the state Open Door Law. The Evansville-Vanderburgh County School Board voted to ban the word during an Aug. 20 public hearing. Central High School teacher Jim Wootton was told he could no longer teach a lesson on the four-letter word in his semantics class.Wootton filed suit Wednesday. 
Yesterday's high: 
89 
Yesterday's low: 72 Nation's high:1 06 (East St. Louis, Ill) Nation's low: 3 1 (Truckee, Calif.) 
Forecast: It will be partly sunny and humid on Thursday with a chance of afternoon thunderstorms. 

©1990 Ar.r.L-WA~thAr 11 
c. 

~ ~ 


FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
MARKET UPDATE 
1990 
NYSE Index 177.93 t-0.80 S&P Composite 324.39 • 1.30 Dow Jones Industrials 2,628.22 • 14.85 
Precious Metals Gold +$2.40 to $386.10/ oz. 
Silver+ 1.6¢ to $4.735/ oz. 

A meeting will be held for old and new members of the First Aid Services Team on Sunday, September 9 at 12:30 at Gate 14 of the stadium. Please attend-Call Laura at 283-2668 if you have any questions. 
The Student Union Board Music Commission needs musicians who need a band to play in. If you are interested, sign up on Sept. 6 from 7-8 p.m. in the Sorin Room in LaFortune. 
WSND-FM is looking for a news director to handle the general news staff and/or the production of a weekly news program addressing important issues. Please sub­mit resume to student activities, 3rd floor LaFortune by September 14. 
The annual LaFortune Student Center Open House will be held Friday, September 7, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. For fur­ther information or questions call Nancy 283-7308. 
Ousted Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang was seen in public for the first time in about 16 months, playing golf with his wife, Japanese diplomats said Thursday. The sighting was the first since May 1989, when Zhao made a tearful visit to students demonstrating for democracy in Tiananmen Square. A month later, after the violent June 3-4 military crackdown, Zhao was stripped of all his posts. He was accused of "splitting the party" by supporting the popular pro-democracy movement, which officially is referred to as a "counter­revolutionary rebellion." 
NASA scrubbed the launch of space shuttle Columbia for the third time after discovering a leak as liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen were being poured into the fuel tank on Wednesday. The decision was made after unacceptably high concentrations of hydrogen were found in the shuttle's aft compartment. said space agency spokeswoman Lisa Malone. 
ALMANAC 
On September 6: 
e1n 1920: Jack Dempsey holds onto heavyweight crown, knock­ing out Billy Miske in the third round at Benton Harbor, Michigan. 
e1n 1932: Spanish republic abolishes the death penalty. 
e1n 1943: United States asks Chinese Nationalists to join with Communists and present unified front to Japan. 
e1n 1972: Amnesty Interna­tional accuses Brazil of torturing political prisoners. 
eTen Years Ago: Chris Evert Lloyd beats Hana Mandlikova in New York for U.S. Open title. 

r-----------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 6, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Brain communication gene found 
NEW YORK (AP) -Scientists journal Nature by three teams atrist and director of the Mill­report they have cloned a gene of scientists. hauser Laboratories at the New that helps brain cells communi­Dearry, of the Duke Univer­York University Medical Center. cate, a step that may lead to sity Medical Center in Durham, 
Friedhoff said that in many
improved schizophrenia drugs N.C., said the discovery may 
areas of the brain, the D1 re­
and earlier diagnosis of some lead to a test to detect very 
ceptor stimulates the brain cell
brain diseases. early cases of schizophrenia or 
to make a key substance called 
The finding may someday let Parkinson's disease by reveal­
cyclic AMP while the D2 recep­
doctors diagnose schizophrenia ing receptor abnormalities. 
tor inhibits produetion. Exist­
and Parkinson's disease before Parkinson's is a potentially symptoms appear, said re­disabling condition that can in­ing anti-psychosis drugs appear 
to work by blocking the D2
searcher Allen Dearry. clude a tremor, rigidity and 
receptor, thereby promoting
That could allow earlier gradual loss of spontaneous 
cyclic AMP production, he said. 
treatment with greater chance movement. 
Perhaps new drugs aimed at
of success, he said. Further work also may pave 
The gene tells brain cells how the way for better drugs to 
produee the same effect with
to make a protein structure treat psychosis, the loss of 
fewer side effects, Friedhoff
called a dopamine receptor. touch with reality seen in said.
The receptor sits on the surface schizophrenia, Dearry said. of brain cells and receives a Scientists may be able to dis­
Most current standard anti­
chemical messenger called tinguish different variants of 
psychosis drugs include a risk
dopamine that brain cells send the receptor, and design drugs 
of such side effects as tardive 
one another. to act only on those variants 
dyskinesia, a syndrome of in­
The newly cloned gene is for that affect psychosis while 
voluntary mov!:)ments that ean
the so-called D1 dopamine re­avoiding variants that produce 
affect the mouth, tongue, arms,
ceptor. The gene for the other side effects, he said. 
leg or trunk.
kind of dopamine receptor, The new work is a important 
Dearry's group included sci­
Commuters hardship 
AP Phoro

called D2, was cloned in 1988. because it allows new studies of 
entists at Duke and the Howard 
The private transporters of Rawalpindi and lslambad, Pakistan
The new work is reported in the D1 receptor, commented 
Hughes Medical Institute Labo­
have. gone on strike in protest over changes in route, causing
Thursday's issue of the British Dr. Arnold Friedhoff, a psychi­ratories there. 
severe roblems for commuters. 

Saint Mary's gets new clubs 
The club would pair a stu­drug, alcohol, and physical
By RENEE YOUNG 
dent with a mentally or physi­awareness on the Saint Mary's 
News Writer 
cally handicapped person be­Campus through various activi­
The first meeting of the Saint 
tween the ages of 18 to 21. Ap­ties such as Pub Tuesday,
Mary's Board of Governance 
plications for admittance will health break-s, and food-drives. ­
(BOG) was held yesterday, 
be lengthy in order to correctly The club was also voted into
September 5, led by Student 
pair people with the same per­existence by the Board of Gov­
Body President Kathy Schmidt. 
sonality. The Best Buddy Club ernance.
The first order of business 
was voted into existence Another subject discussed
was the consideration of new 
unanimously by the Board of was the upcoming Middle East
clubs. The Saint Mary's Best 
Governance Awareness Week which is being 
Buddy Club was proposed by 
The next dub considered was held on the Saint Mary's cam­
Molly McMahon. The club aims 
proposed by Molly Bringardner, pus September 16-22. Accord­
to make college students more 
commissioner of the Wellness ing to Maureen Lowry, vice 
aware of the mentally and 
Club. The Wellness Club, work­president for student affairs,
physically handicapped citizens 
ing with a Government Grant of there are talks of a mass and various lecturers for panel dis­cussions. 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
The girls did the right thing by walking in a group, said As­sistant Director of Security Chuck Hurley. 
"You've got to become some­what street-smart," Hurley said. He also stressed that stu­dents should always remain in well-lit areas. 
"No property is worth your life," Hurley said. "If you think they have a gun I would not ad­vise anybody to resist them." 
Hurley said that additional information and tips about crime prevention can be picked up at Security or the Office of Student Affairs. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
CRIMES 
AND 

MISDEMEANORS 
<N O~ON ;,cruREs ••~<•~ 
19B9 ORION PICTURES CORPORATION All RIGHTS RESERVED 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 

7:30,9:45 




page 4 
Hussein urges Arabs to fight West in 'holy war' 
(AP)­Iraqi President Saddam Hus­sein on Wednesday urged Arabs to rise up in a holy war against the West and former allies who turned against him, and said 
world trade sanctions are im­periling the lives of Iraqi chil­dren. 
An American citizen, mean­while, was reported shot in Iraqi-occupied Kuwait but de­tails were sketchy. 
The State Department said Wednesday night in Washington that it received a report an Iraqi soldier fired on an Ameri­can who was trying to avoid capture, adding, "We have no information on how serious his injuries might be." 
Iraqi troops have been rounding up Westerners in Kuwait since Iraq invaded and The American women had Ara­bic names, indicating they had married Arabs. 
Japan and the Soviet Union asked Iraq on Wednesday to withdraw at ·once from Kuwait and free all foreigners held in Iraq and Kuwait. A joint state­ment issued in Tokyo by For­eign Minister Taro Nakayama and visiting Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze was the first ever by the two nations on an international is­sue, Foreign Ministry officials there said. 
As a multinational armada grew in the Persian Gulf, U.S. Army officials in Saudi Arabia said the military was using night convoys to move heavy firepower-including ground­to-air missiles and rocket 

The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp
Rings for Juniors 

Karen Balcerzak, a Saint Mary's junior tries on her ring in the Haggar College Center. 
seized the small oil state on Aug. 2. Embassies in Kuwait have been ordered closed and diplomats transferred to Bagh­dad. 
Western women and children detained in Kuwait and Iraq trickled out in small groups Wednesday. leaving behind hundreds who lack permission to depart. Iraq, criticized for blocking releases with red tape, said it was doing everything it could to expedite departures. 
On Thursday, an Air France jet flew into Paris from Jordan carrying 153 Westerners al­lowed to leave Iraq, including three pregnant women. Those aboard included 105 French women and children, 28 Britons and at least nine Americans. 
launchers -into the northern Saudi desert. 
Although Washington says its troops are deployed to defend the Saudis, the recent moves in­crease the offensive capabilities of U.S. forces. 
President Bush indicated Wednesday the United States has not ruled out an offensive role, telling lawmakers back from the gulf that if sanctions do not succeed, "we will review our options." 
Secretary of State James Baker was headed for the Mid­dle East, where he said he planned to discuss with U.S. al­lies a proposed new regional security structure for the Per­sian Gulf. 
WMRD'S 
LOUNGE AND RESTAURANT 
within walking distance of campus-under new management 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK AT 4:00PM 
ALL NEW "PUB BITES"  DJ EVERY TUESDAY  
MENU:  LIVE ENTERTAINMENT  AND THURSDAY  
APPETIZERS  EVERY FRIDAY,  
SANDWICHES  SATYRDAY & SUNDAY 301 DART TOURNAMENT  
PIZZA STEAKS  EVERY SUNDAY  
WMRD  7:30PM  

1516 N. Ironwood, South Bend In 
233-7747 


HAS RE-OPENED FOR THE 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR SERVING ALL YOUR: 
·FLOWERS ·8 ALL 0 0 N S 
AND 

·G R E E T I N G C A R D S NEEDS 
*NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR DELIVERY PEOPLE 
Basement of LaFortune Student Center 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat Closed Home Football Saturdays We Deliver to ND, SMC, and Holy Cross daily 283-4242 VISA/MASTER CARD ACCEPTED 
------~--~--------------------------~----------~~----­
Thursday, September 6, 1990 
BCAC to be more active 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 
The Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) announced plans to become more active in the Notre Dame and South Bend Community at its meeting Wednesday evening. · 
One of the goals Co-President Tony Smith announced is to become more involved with the South Bend community. The club will be working with the Upward Bound program. Two days a week they will tutor un­derpriveleged high school stu­dents who are interested in go­ing to college. The tutors will work one on one with students and try to keep them interested in higher education. 
In addition, a program will be started to provide positive role models for high school students. College students wil be matched with high school students who are in need of positive role models. The col­lege students will be available to listen to the students needs and will try to help them with problems they may encounter. 
The BCAC will also work with the Big Brother/Big Sister program of South Bend. The officers would like to give something back to the South Bend community and think these programs are a good way of doing so. 
The BCAC wants to become more involved with the Notre Dame community. They will work with the Student Senate in hopes to address areas of mi­nority student concerns. They will act as a support network for all minority students and plan to become more visible in the Notre Dame community. They want to be known for more than the annual fashion and talent show. 
The BCAC also voted to change the name of the organi­zation. Member's feel that .a name change will more clearly define the goals they have set for this year. 
Fulbright Fellowships for Graduating Seniors 
Full support for one year of study abroad 
Mandatory Meeting for potential applicants : THURSDAY, Sept. 6 4:15PM 116 O'Shaugenessy 

Advisor : Prof. Steven M. Bell 153 Decio 239-7128 

The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 

Camping out 
Sophomores Patrick Mixon and Alicia Rauth camp out for tickets. Even in their second year, they're willing to subscribe tCI Notre Dame's tradition of line waiting. 
Death squads shooting children 

We're here. Here for support, 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA here for understanding. 
Balfour
It's not easy being gay, lesbian, 
College Rin~ 
or bisexual in a society which is oppressive and discriminatory. 
One Hundred Reasons to Buy Your College Ring
But we can help you meet other people like yourself, other-s who have gone through what you're 

NOW! 
going through, others who have felt what you're feeling. 
If you'd like to know more about our discussion groups or our other activities, call or write for more information. 
And maybe you won't feel alone any longer. 

Upto $100 OFF! 
Save $100 on 18K, $60 on 14K and $40 on lOK gold rings, in great designs only from Balfour. Order yours today-this special Age ofReasons won't last forever! 
See your representative and make these savings on your
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame 
ring during Ring Week 
Post Office Box 194 
Tuesday -Friday September 4,5,6 & 7th 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
in the Haggar College Ctr. game rm. -~ VISA J 
Mike: 237-0788, Carol: 232-3330, john: 259-3157 
3214 Menauquet Trail Michigan City, IN 46360 Deposit required 
LONDON (AP) -Death groups for the estimate of a squads are shooting children death a day and said there were dead in Brazilian cities at a also many cases of children be­
rate estimated at at least one a ing beaten, tortured and muti­day, Amnesty International lated by policemen on duty. says. The organization reminded The proliferation of homeless president Fernando Collar de 
children, many of whom turn to Mello of his pledge June 22 to crime to survive, has led to an stamp out the abuses, in which increase in murders by death he said: "We cannot be and will squads partly manned by off­not again be a country cited as 
duty policemen, the worldwide violent in reports by Amnesty human rights organization said International." in a report to be published It said an Amnesty delegation Thursday. met Collar last month and 
It spoke of hundreds of such asked for "immediate, concrete 

cited Brazilian action" to stop the killings. 
The report cited the case of 
three boys picked up in Rio de Janeiro by military police last month on suspicion of trying to break into a store. It said they were made to play Russian roulette, and a 13-year-old, Le­andro Cardoso da Silva, was shot "in the head and dumped outside a hotel by police. He later died in hospital." 
"Poor children in Brazil are treated with contempt by the authorities, risking their lives simply by being on the street," the report said. "Their most basic rights are trampled on by the very people who should safeguard them." 

. f!i--­
samtMarys eoneg~ 

The Observer Thursday, Septembe~ 
Non-smokers still face risk 
BOSTON (AP) -Non-smok­ers who grew up with smoking parents face double the usual risk of lung cancer, according to a study that provides new evidence of the dangers of sec­ondhand smoke. 
The report estimates that 17 percent of all lung cancer in the United States among people who never smoked cigarettes results from their exposure to smokers during childhood and adolescence. 

smoke. 
"It makes a strong case that exposure to secondhand smoke as a child increases your risk as an adult. This is quite con­vincing," commented Dr. Stan­ton Glantz of the University of Ca1ifornia, San Francisco. 
The study, published in Thursday's New England Jour­nal of Medicine, was based on a survey of 191 non-smokers in New York state who were diag­nosed with lung cancer during the early 1980s. Researchers calculated their lifetime expo­sure to cigarette smoke and 
compared  it  with  that  of  
healthy non-smokers.  
The  researchers  added  up  

each person's "smoker-years." This is the years they lived in a house multiplied by the number of smokers there. For instance, someone who lived at home for 18 years with two smoking parents had exposure of 36 smoker-years. 
"Here is another piece of evi­dence that smoke from other people's cigarettes is harmful to your health. This is the first finding that indicates that ex­posure early in life may be par­ticularly important," said Dr. 


is currently accepting applications 
Dwight Janerich of Yale School of Medicine, who directed the 

for the 
study. 

following paid position: 
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that about 25,000 of the more than 150,000 new cases of lung 

Assistant Production 
cancer annually occur among non-smokers, and 40 percent of them, or 10,000 people, never 

Manager 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp I smoked. If the latest estimate is 
21 means fun 
correct, this.means that about 

For further information, contact
Molly Jason, a Notre Dame senior, prepares to enter Senior Bar. 
caused by childhood exposure 

Lisa Eaton, 283-2761 or 239-7471 
to other people's cigarette 
JUNIOR CLASS 


WELCOME 
CRUISE 
II
SEPT.l3, 1990 

BACK!! 

THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION Wishes you the best of luck for 90-91!! Have a great time! 
Tickets on Sale today in the Junior Class Office 


Don't miss our introductory organizational MEETING on Monday, September 10, 7 pm LaFortune Student Center-2nd floor 

Our traditional PICNIC will be Fri. September 14 Holy Cross Field-4pm Food and lots of fun 

Notre Dame's Student Government cordially invites you to attend the Student BOOy Address on Thursday, Septemre 6, 1990 at 700 pm in the auditorium ofthe Center for Continuing Education 
There will be aquestion and answer 
session immediately after the Address. 
•
STUDENT 
60flllllll 

fin evening with... 

TIM SETTIMI 
1989 CAMPOS ErtTERTfilrtER OF THE YEAR 
FRIDAY. SEPT. 7th 8:00pm THEODORE··s (LaFortune Stodent Center) FREE!! 
Business
page 7 Thursday, September 6, 1990 
Hoosiers pay lowest auto iinsurance rates in· nation 
N.J. drivers pay the highest premiums, with Washington, D.C. not far behind 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indi­ana motorists pay the nation's 13th lowest rate for auto in­surance, averaging about $454 a year, the Alliance of American Insurers rtported Wednesday. 
A major reason for the mod­erate rate is that Hoosiers have 69 percent fewer auto-related lawsuits and 39 percent fewer car thefts than drivers in most states, said company President Franklin Nutter. 
"The system in Indiana seems to be working well," said Nut­ter, speaking at the annual 
CHERRY HILL, N.J. Harvey,. Lamm ra chairman and officer of Subaru lea, vyhich merged with ·Fuji Heavy Ltd., the companies nounced Tuesday. 
The ..joint announcement came four days after the merger ~hat made Subaru of America a wholly subsidiary of Fuji dustries, the Jatlanese facturer that cars. ;¥:¥ 
Lamm: one of the of Subaru of America became its 1986. 
meeting of the Insurance Insti­tute of Indiana. "The cost of auto insurance may be a major issue in some states, but it shouldn't be in Indiana." 
Nutter said there is a miscon­ception that people pay a large chunk of their household in­comes on car insurance. 
However, Hoosier car owners pay just 1.9 percent of their budgets on auto premiums while spending 1.1 percent on life insurance and 1.6 percent on health insurance, Nutter said. 
By comparison, llndiana resi­dents spend 29.6 percent of their annual budget on housing, 
16.7 percent on transportation and 15.1 percent on food, he said. 
New Jersey has the nation's highest auto premiums, a steep $1,100 on avera!~e. primarily because it has the nation's highest number of cars per square mile, Nutter said. Washington, D.C., ranked sec­ond with an 11verage annual premium of abo.... , $879. 
Sparsely populated Nebraska has the nation's cheapest auto premiums, with an average of $336 a year. 
To lower Indiana auto premi­ums even more, Nutter sug­gested being careful when buy­ing a car because newer, more expensive automobiles or ones with fewer safety features are more expensive to insure. He also suggested raising de­ductibles, insuring all house­hold cars under the same policy and keeping a clean driving 
record. Steve Williams, president of the insurance institute, said Nutter's figures agree with a finding by the State Motor Ve­hicles Issues Committee, which reviewed Hoosier auto premi­ums this summer and found last month that no changes were necessary. 
Nutter heads a national trade association representing 170 property and casualty insur­ance companies. 

'Vanishing lady' leaves fortune 
LONDON (AP) -Before she died in January, Dorothea Allen destroyed family papers and letters and tore the date and place of birth from her pass­port. She left more than $2.8 million in cash, no traceable next of kin, no will, no birth certificate, no marriage certifi­cate, and a growing list of claimants to her fortune. 
So far, 31 people have come forward. claiming to be heirs of the woman known in British newspapers as "the vanishing lady." 
By law, claimants have 12 years to prove they are blood relatives. If they fail, the for­tune goes to the state treasury. 
Treasury lawyers ordered the sale of her effects, including mink coats, a 1972 Rolls-Royce Corniche and a 1964 Daimler. jewelry, paintings, furniture, silver and other trappings from a glamorous past that by some accounts included a trip across the dance floor with Fred As­taire. 

The sale, conducted Tuesday by Sotheby's at her 300-year­old home, added $1.08 million cash to the estate. The home it­self, in the village of Sutton-un­der-Brailes 90 miles northwest of London, is expected to fetch another $1.3 million when it is sold. 
According to Sotheby's, the latest claimant to come for­ward is Wilfried Kluber from Baden-Baden, West Germany, who says his grandmother was Mrs. Allen's sister. 
Kluber told Sotheby's that his grandmother's maiden name was Farquharson, and that Mrs. Allen was born in 1901. His letter has been passed along to the treasury, Sotheby's said. 
The Times of London said an­other claimant is Merilyn Hor­ton of Cleveland, Ohio. It re­ported that Mrs. Horton says her great-grandfather was a Scottish immigrant named Far­quharson. 

································!·····························
e COME JOIN THE FUN! :
:  .  
!TOMMOROW  !  
LAFORTUNE•  !  
STUDENTCENTER  ! 

•
•
•OPEN HOUSE
• 
11am-4pm
•
• 

-·_i 
: 

Be entertained by TIM SETTIMI.
• Participate in FUN FLICKS: Totally interactive video. Make your own movie or music video for free with this mobile movie studio .
• 
Enjoy the magic of KEVIN WILSON. 
• 

Have a caricature made by DAMIAN SHINER. Pick up unique give-away items. Hear WVFI. 
Learn about student organizations housed in LaFortune. • Enjoy free samples of Soho Soda and Haagen Dazs at the HUDDLE .• Get free samples of shampoo and conditioner at the HAIRSTLYIST.
• The COUNTRY HARVESTER will have free samples and door prizes. •• THE COPY SHOP will give away 10 gift certificates for 50 copies. The GORCH GAME ROOM will provide free pool all day and free video 
• 

games from 12noon to lpm. SOCIETY BANK will have refreshments .
•

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, September 6, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 

Students must seize chance to participate 
In their campaign last spring, Student Body President 
Rob Pasin and Vice-President Fred Tombar said the students were their top priority for the coming year. This fall, Pasin and Tombar have made a concerted effort to listen to the thoughts of their constituents. 
The first Student Body Address tonight in the Center for Continuing Education, will give students a long-­awaited opportunity to voice their opinions to their leaders. Students are strongly encouraged to attend the address-as contributors, as well as listeners. 
Pasin and Tombar are hosting the event, which will be open to all students. The address, as well as the question and answer session which will follow, exemplifies their desire for increased student input. Communication, however, is a two-way street. Just as Pasin and Tombar are making the effort to communicate with the students, the students must also do their part by attending the lecture, asking questions and making their voices heard. 
Notre Dame students have a right to know what is happening on campus. Along with that right comes the duty to contribute and actively participate in discussion and debate. Passive complaining will accomplish nothing. 
One of complaints heard most frequently on campus is the administration's alleged failure to consult the students on important decisions. A perfect example of this is the change in the alcohol policy at SYRs two years ago. Most of the student body was irate because they felt their opinions were ignored when the change was affected. 
Pasin and Tombar are trying to foster student involvement in light of these complaints. For their efforts to be successful, the students must respond. If the students wish to be treated like mature, thoughtful individuals, they must seize this opportunity to prove themselves. 
Pasin and Tombar are making a concerted effort to keep the communication lines open between students and student government. To achieve this aim, they have installed a telephone hot line for student complaints, and have also scheduled dorm visits to personally consult with residents of each hall. Tonight's Student Body Address is also an important step toward this end. 
The student leaders are making a visible effort to serve the students. It is in the student body's best interest to respond. 
DOONESBURY 
U.S. seeks out uses for military might 
By Enrique Dussel 

Iraq's invasion of Kuwait cannot be legitimized by any means .. . as no military intervention can. Latin Americans, especially, can understand the feeling of the Kuwaiti people after so many 
U.S. interventions in the last centuries. 
In my opinion, the present situation in the "Gulf crisis" and the massive deployment of U.S. troops in the region point to several remarkable situations in the U.S. (and also at the University of Notre Dame). 
1) It appears that, in the 1980s, U.S. society has been very susceptible to a special mixture of nationalist-populist­religious-military-white male­discourse of the White House and most of the national mass media. In these days, some even try to make obnoxious comparisons between the U.S. invasion in Panama and the one in Kuwait. The former is justified by the claim that it was a "legitimate national security problem" and resulted in U.S. troops "placing" a new (U.S. friendly) government, while the "naked aggression" of Iraq, led by a crazy man similar to Hitler, has to be condemned strongly. The 'innocent help' of the U.S. in Panama killed around 4,000 Panamanians. The quick and massive military reaction of the 
U.S. in the Gulf, once one considers the one hundred-plus direct U.S. military interventions in Latin America alone in this century and the recent recurrence of an emphasis on the "autonomy of the nations" and the "sovereignty of states," cannot have any credibility at all and seems to be nothing more than an open hypocrisy. 
2) Far more important, and sadly for all "Rambos," the U.S. is no longer economically able to lead a massive intervention or war, as it did in Vietnam. The U.S. hegemony seems to have accepted a new international labour division; it intervenes militarily, and the affected nations pay the costs (as some European nations and Japan have already accepted). The U.S. military might become (or already is) an international mercenary troop, doing all the dirty work other nations will not do. 
3) Far more serious is the fact that the present "Gulf crisis" might become a personal issue for Bush in the next few months. It seems to be the case that a military solution is not now possible-either in Kuwait or in Iraq. How will Bush react to the increasing pressure of the U.S. population if more than 50,000 soldiers will have to stay in the region and no immediate "actions" are taken (especially in the case of the hostages)? Isn't a military action going to be necessary to reassert Bush's reputation, to justify the costs and deaths in "accidents"? 
4) Did the Bush Admin­istration calculate the risks of sending troops to Saudi Arabia before the UN? A long military presence of the U.S. in the region might have significant effects. How long and how many soldiers will have to stay, even if Kuwait is "recovered"? How will the Arabic population feel if their holy places (Mecca, Medina) are invaded by foreign (non-believing) soldiers? 
5) In this decade, the U.S. will face an increasingly Islamic fundamentalist movement in the Gulf region and in Asia. This movement will be radically hostile to U.S. interests and "superbly" armed by the U.S. itself (as Noriega, an ex-friend of Bush, was). See, for instance, the cases of Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan (Mudjaheidin) and North Africa. 
In this context, the U.S. war machine is working full time at high speed in all possible medias, searching for all kinds of arguments to justify an unjustified military intervention in Iraq. After reading the newspaper or watching TV, one may experience this new "we­feeling." But let us face it: Believing in the "sovereignty of states" argument in the U.S. version is nothing more than naive innocence, which, while having devastating effects in other countries, is especially difficult to accept for an important part of the U.S. population-primarily the military forces themselves. 
Enrique Dussel is a graduate student in the Department of Economics. 

The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues. The first topic is student parking at Notre Dame. What do you like or dislike about the current parking situation? What would you change and how? We're interested in your thoughts! Write them down and send them to P.O. Box Q, The Observer, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. Friday, September 7. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
N&U, TH/fr5 IT, .BABY t:Ja3! YOU OW CARRY ON AU. YOU UJANT; 8IfT 
NO MCJ?& TUBe FOR. ~~~ 7VIJAYI 
THER&'5MORE 7D LIFE THAN 6eRAUJO ANI? OPRAH ANf) 5.4/.../.,YANI? PHIL.. ANI? MORJ'ON ANV 
6AR.Y ANI? R/3615 ANO PEC-U/13& I 
I 

/NCfla}t8t.C AS IT 50UN[)S, THCI?e'S A AAOU3 t<J(;RW OUT5//Je: rF Tl3L.&V/5/0N, 
BABY 00&! lHCR£'5 aN­
7RAL.. PARKI 71£ MU5CVM CF NATURAL H/5700, 7H& 
IJRON.X Z1JO/

1=:"'~"1-.o--/ 
fAJH/J:T'! YaJ 54Y YOUUIANT TO IAJJVCH "A CUR.­R&NTAFFAIF!:.'? 
«JUL., OMY, 8UT 7}{/JJ'5/T! 
I 

N&.KT; SH£3 
FW&RAL. 
&XPR£55W 
HeR.HUS­
8ANP'SHEAV 
7VH15 toV81?.... 
~ 

'A closed mouth gathers no feet.' 
-A wiseman 

1-1% 
~~ ~---~·-~~.---~~--,_--~-----­
Accent
Thursday, September 6, 1990 page 9 
Saint Mary's to finish Fall Foray with luau 
BETH KESSLER accent writer 
To complete a week of activi­ties labeled the Fall Foray, Saint Mary's has planned a joint ND­SMC luau. The event will take place on Friday, September 7, from 8:30p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on the steps of Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. 
In the Hawaiian spirit leis will be given away, and food with a Hawaiian flare will be served. The area will be lit by torches, which will not only provide an appropriate setting, but should help deter the mosquitoes. 
The main emphasis of the evening will be on dancing to the music of the Generics. In­cluded in the activities will be a limbo contest. 
Organized by Amy Halstead and Wendy Kemp, heads of Special Cultural Activities for the Student Activities Board of SMC, the idea for this event came to them last spring .. Hal­stead said they felt there was a lack of non-date dances on the ND and SMC campuses. She and Kemp wanted to provide a fun way for people to get to­gether, dance and socialize, without the necessity of having a date. 

The theme of a Hawaiian luau added an interesting twist. By having it early in the year it will allow freshmen to get involved, transfers to meet people, and upperclassmen to reacquaint themselves with fellow stu­dents. 

Halstead described the luau as a "pre-party," suggesting that it would be a good place to start Friday evening before moving on to a more private party. 
'The area will be lit by torches, which will not only provide an appropriate setting, but should help deter the mosquitoes. ' 
The luau is sponsored by the Student Activities Board of Saint Mary's and is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Halstead is optimistic about a good turnout and extends an invitation to all those who are interested in dancing under the starry skies of Indiana, and maybe allowing the imagination to wander a lit­tle into more tropical climes. 
Settimi's comedy-mime-roller skating show comes to Theodore's 
The Spirit of Notre Dame 

To rise stronger than ever after defeat: To be gracious and proud, though we've been beat; To savor a win with laughter and with whoops, Yet, extending a hand to opposing troops; To never forget, 'fore or after the game. This is part ofthe Spirit of ol' Notre Dame. 
But it's more than nice guys in vict'ry and loss; Or 'membrance of grotto, dome, spire, and lakes' moss. It's giving to each hour that certain plus: Sixty full minutes of the best in us. It's the will to excel in all that we dare, For Him and for her, whose children we are. It's a force and a drive impelling us choose Good over evil, though we seemingly lose. 
It's a spark-aftre!-passed on and on' By Notre Dame men, by father and son. 
Oh, it's wond'rous and awesome, this fire and this force; 
This Spirit that inspires us, this eternal resource. So cherish it dearly, more precious than gold, And when dark hours gather, we'll turn up the flame Of the glorious Spirit of ol' Notre Dame! 
Editor's Note: This was written by Paul A. Fzsher. a 1943 graduate ofNotre Dame, and sent to Ara Parsegian six days after ND lost to USC. 
Special to the Observer 
The Entertainer of the Year is on his way to Notre Dame? 
No, this is not a joke. Tim Settimi will appear on Friday, September 7, at 8:00 p.m. in Theodore's. 
Settimi, voted 1989 Perform­ing Artist of the Year during the "Campus Entertainer of the Year" presenti'.tion of the Na­tional Associatwn for Campus Activities, has performed his one man show "I'm OK-An Evening with Tim Settimi" for over 1000 colleges and univer­sities. 
Having appeared in concert with such diverse performers as Gloria Estefan and the Miami Sound Machine, Doc Sev­erinson, Steve Martin, Willie Nelson, and Kenny Loggins, Settimi would be entertaining for almost any audience. 
Settimi began his live perfor­mance career as a street per­fonner, appearing in such cities as Boston, Toronto, New York, Montreal and his native Chicago. 
A current resident of Atlanta, Settimi's talents have translated well to television and movies, with appearances on "Comedy Tonight," Showtime's "Atlanta Laff-Otr' and in the feature film "The Prize Fighter" with Tim Conway. 
Settimi's current show com­bines mime, comedy, original music, memorable characters and athletic pratfall roller skating that delights all. 
New work in progress for the most honored artist in the Na­tional Association for Campus Activities is a collection of the­atrical interpretations of origi­nal music. The show, tenta­tively titled "Behind Bars," is a live music video, weaving a narrative through eight songs. 
To see more of this talented performer, be sure to catch his act at Theodore's Friday at 8:00 p.m. 



--------,.._--~-~--------­
page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifiecls must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
( NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4002 
30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Balloon for rent. Custom messages. Signs & Banners for your organization. 272-n70! 
PHIL NEEDS WOMEN!!! To work the counter at the all-new Dillon Foodsalesl If you're interested in working for the Big Red call Phil at x4798 after 12 noon. 
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN HISTORIC PARK AVE. NEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + 

l---------~~--~-~-~~---­
COLORTV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. 
WILL BEAT ANY PRICEJJJJIIIII 
need tickets for (ANY OR ALL): 2 Mich GA's , 1 A.F. stud and 1 or 2 Mich stud. 
NAME YOUR PRICEJJJJJJJ X1187 
HELPII HELPII HELPII HELP II Need 3 GA's for 3 Beautiful WOMEN for Air Force Football Game. Call Joe at X1817. 
NEED 1 STUD. TICKET FOR PURDUE!!! CALL KEN X-1078 
HEYYOUII 
PLEASE HELPII 
I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN GAME. 
BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! 

Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Air Force. 
Call Beth at 288-0597 

Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­1934, Bill. 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
1. 
Large Group Meeting When? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm) Where? 427 Stanford 

2. 
Welcome Picnic 


When? 'sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) Main Circle @ 2:30 pm Where? Potawatomi Park Food & Rides 
ALL ARE WELCOME Questions? Call Sean@ x1910 
GRADUATE STUDENTS ! ! FACULTY II STAFF II Grad-Faculty-Staff SOcial This Friday, September 7 
5:00 pm to 9:00 pm Alumni-Senior Club 
MUSICIANS! 
want to start or be in a band 
but don1 know who to jam 

with? Sign-up in the Sorin 
Room at LaFortune from 7­
8pm tonight for a musician 
register which will be printed and 

distrubuted for 
all musicians to refer to. If 
unable to attend, call X3352. 
Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books comer of ND ave. and Howard 233-2342 
LOST/FOUND 

FOUND: Watch near Library early Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to ID. 
LOST: BLUE ND FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG AT MICHIANA AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 234-4961. MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU HAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE CALL ME. 
LOST: 3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW ANYTHING!JIIIIJ 
X4090 OR X4096 

LOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK 
SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 
CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. PLEASE CALL 234-9648. 
LOST-green Navy seabag. 
Left behind bookstore 8126. 
Contains clothes,etc. Please 
call Bart X3285. 
LOST-Green Navy seabag. 
Left behind the bookstore on 
8126. Contains clothes,etc. 
Please call Bart x3285 
FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIXJ PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE DELl IN LAFORTUNE TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET. 
LOST: BOX OF BOOKS WITH 
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
20$ REWARD FOR RETURN. 
CALL AIMEE X3720. 
Lost: brown, plastic glasses. 
Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 
______________________ .,_____________ _ 
WANTED 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 
CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For information Call1­800-442-5507 Ext. J-200. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK APTS. 273-9406. 
WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687 112 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO 239-7207 OR 289-3668. 
Wanted­
llolnO..MiMiilolllallkk 
Wll ,.,..,s 
Cai1--716-0S7t 
Patties is now niring part-time help.Kitchen,cashier,ice cream.Fiexible hours. We can adjust our schedule to yours.Call 255-5525. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!!!!!! 
2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket needed. 
PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 
*GABEL T.V.* 
• 
SALES REPS WANTED 

• 
3 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 

• 
GREAT PT. TIME HOURS 


• $400-$600 WEEKLY 
*CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
CALL FOR INTERVIEW BETWEEN 10-12 NOON. MATI FRIENDSHUH 237-0691 
SELL ME YOUR TICKET APPLIC!I DEBBIE 283-2982. 
!!II WANTED!! I Anybody who is interested in performing at "The Coffeehouse." There is no better atmosphere for music,poetry or performance art. Call Colin@ x1609 
EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3­MONTHOLD. TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5. OUR HOME (BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER MONTH. CALL 259-6006. 
Need used psych books:personality & cognition #2894 
OVERSEAS_, lcRutSESHIPS EMPlOYMENT Mlly posltl.s.
w.n._....._ •...._ 
c.ll (105) 612·7555 Ext. 5-1912 
FOR RENT 
3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­1014. 
719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 BEDROOM. 112 MILE FROM CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 RHONDA. 
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure fum. apt: 755 South Bend Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., references. 616-483-9572. 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 232-3616 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME WALK TO ND 6838889 OR2876389 
FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 2 FRIDGES 4 SALE 

$40.00 EACH 
259-3268 
BIANCHI12SPEED 19" bike, 
lightweight, like new, was 
$350, now $260.or best offer. 
258-0752. 
ZENITH PC-51/4 & 3112 FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON FX-85 PRINTER. $1,000 OR BEST OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S 
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE 
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­
1364 
COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE 
CALL 273-1364 
FOR SALE: 2 OCTOGAN SOLID MAPLE END TABLES WITH STORAGE SPACE -$30 EA. OR $50 FOR BOTH; EXERCYCLE $40; ROLLAWAY BED, $40. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 
ENGINEERING CALCULATORS! 1 yr. old HP-28S,$150, or HP­41CX,$125, with original box. Both include all manuals. Very powerful! machinesll Call 289-8020. STUD. TIX ALSO!! WILL HAGGLE. 
SEIZED CARS, trucks, boats, 4wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA Available your area now. Call (805) 6824755~ Ext. C-2743. 
REPOSSESSED VA & HUD HOMES availo~e from govemrnen for Sl without aeft daeck. You repair_ Also tax delinquenl foreclosures. Call (805)682-7SSS Ext H-3269 for repo list yew arecL 
TICKETS 

NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S and 2 
MIAMI studs. 
Call John S. at 2506 
Oclober 20 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need just ONE(1) MIAMI stud 
ticket 
caiJMatt3024 
NEED 5 Stanford GAs Ultra-rich parents have offered to waive tuition for lucky person. call x2506 and ask for big Steve 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192. 
HELP!!!! Parents' first and last chance to see an NO football game. Desperately need 2 GA's and one student ticket for MICHIGAN. 
please call AMY (R.) 
272-8954 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WE NEED MICH AND MIAMI STUDENT AND GA TICKETS CALL ALLISON OR ANNE,2732 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
MICH TICKETS NEEDED 2STUD, 1 GA PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975 
SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468 
Need 2 Miami Stud TIX Will Pay Big Bucks x 1416 Brett 
WANTED: 
1 AIR FORCE G.A. 
2 MIAMI G.A.'S 
CALL MIKE x1581 PLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEA SE 1 to 3 PENN ST stud tix needed ­Susan x3141 
TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM 513-677-8106. 
You can save a marriage, sell me your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) 
CALL MA TI X 2984 
HELP! NEED ONE PURDUE 
STUD. CALL DENIS X2090 
I NEED TO TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA's for 2 MIAMI GA's. Call SHANNON at x2171. 
I NEED MICH. GA's OR STUD TIX Name your terms! 277-0253 
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
NEED 1 MICH. Tix 

AARON x2384 x2352 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX HAVE CASH #2936 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Mike needs 1 stud. ticket for AF and up to 5 Tix for STANFORD or PURDUE/ #3191 
NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. 
CALLX4045 

HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's WILL TRADE FOR 2 TENN OR 2 MIAMI GA's x3652 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Mark x1576. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Paul xt 755. 
NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ CALL BARB X4419 
NEED STUD. TIX : ALL HOME GAMES.$$ WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$ I CALL JIM 
273-1377. 

NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. 
CALL MARY 273-1377 
I NEED GA'S, ESP. PURDUE 
CALL MA TI AT 3038 
I need 3 Mich. tix (Stud or GA). 
Don x1788. 

I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX 
CALL MIKE AT X4022 
NEED 1 MICH TICKET -PURDY 
PLSX2172 

WANTED: Have TWO MICHIGAN GA's to trade for TWO MIAMI GA's. Will also negotiate. 
ALSO NEEDED: Five AIR FORCE GA's and 1 ST. TOM X3697 
NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO TRADE. LUKE X1213 
I NEED TICKETS 

I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER 
WATCH THE GAMES ON TV 
WILL BUY WHOLE SETS 
CALL X 1167 

Need 4 Michigan GA's; will take single tix or pairs; call at 2786 
~,,,.................,
!~!MICHIGAN TICKETS 
I I
NEEDED!12 68'S • 1 STUDENT I ~ 212-8954 Ill!I RMY RAZZ -~ 
.................................. 
CALLX2819 
I need two Stanford GA's BADII Parents will take back tuition if I don't come throughllllllll Call Mike X3506 
WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL COLL:1-312-745-7210. 
I NEED GA'S TO PENN STATE CALL KENNY AT 271-9349 
Desperately need 1 student ticket for Air Force game! III 
Please call ALICIA at.x3465!11 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ 
WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5GA'SAT ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 
MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$ DEBBIE x2982 
I need 2 Michigan GA's for my Mom + Dad's 34th wedding anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 277-4838 
$$$ will trade 4 PURDUE GA's and CA$H for 2 MICH GA's John x1187 
WILL PAY CASH for 1 student or GA Air Force tick X1187 
HELP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. tickets for hometown buddies driving all the way up from 
S.C. Call Caroline at x3838. 
DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! Please call Kathy 277-9406 or Mike 273-9471. 
NEED 1 or 2 Miami GA or student tix.Name your price .. call x 3285 
My poor friends never went to an Irish game. Please sell me your Mich. student tix! Joni 1839 
GREAT DEAL I 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­other offers welcome x2630 
Need 1 Michigan stud. Please call Peter x1802 
Have 2 USC -need 2 Miami GA Also any home game $$$$$$ Terri x4837 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX........... WAY BAD !Ill 233-7440. PAUL. 
WANTED One set of season student tickets . Will pay for tickets plus $100.00 to you. Call Clint at 289-4914. 
NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings 
HELPII! !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882 
need t-4 Mich tix-stud or GA I'll pay $, trade any stud tix, inc! Miami x2188 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN GA'SI WILL PAY BIG$ CALL JOY X4856 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket to Michigan. Call Matt at x1089. 
NEED GA TJX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. CALL CHRIS X1067 
$$$$$$$$$ NO Alum needs 4 Stanford GAs. Will pay$$$! Call Jim Kirker collect 203-889-3738 $$$$$$$$$ 
Need a MIAMI ticket? I need MICHIGAN. Lets swap! x2601 
Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEAL THY uncle 287-3472 Scotty 
TICKETS NEEDED Jill 
2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 
2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket 
for Air Force 
273-9469 Diane 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 

Need student tickets for Penn 
State, Miami, and Michigan. 
Will pay outrageous prices. 
Call Dan x1126. 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need $$$?Sell 
your ga's to all 
home games. 
Call tom x1597. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICE!!! #3501 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 

NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., 
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT 
X2088 

NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., 
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT 
X2088 

Needed desparately, 4 Stanford 
GA's and 3 Stud tix. Also need 
Miami Tix. Big Bucks!!! Call Jon 
Paul at x4115. 

Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at 273-9367. 
Need 1 Michigan GA 
call Pat 289-5542 

NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD GA'S! CALL DAN@ X1179 
Need 1 Student ticket for Michigan game Call Mike at 4048 

I desperately need a Michigan 
ticket. My roommate is going to 
Rome and this will be her last 
football game for a whole year. 
$$$$$ Call Lisa or Kara at X2761 
!NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!! 
!sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. or! 
!stud. =O.k. Older bro +sis !!I!II 
coming for 1st game $$3022! 
I need 2 Student Michigan 
tickets!!!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE Call Anne 
at 288 0597 
Need 2 Miami GA's Call Matt x3630 

Okay, any student tickets for Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, please call Paige at x2980. This is serious. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 MICH. TIXI G.A'S OR STUD. CALL x3771 or x3791 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
H E L Pill 

NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS PAYING TOP$$$$$ CALL JEFF@277-3998 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI, 
PURDUE,MICHIGAN, 

STANFORD, OR PENN STATE. 
PLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. 
JJIII!IIPLEASE HELP ME!!III!!J 
Friend from Oregon coming to 
see MIAMI game. Willing to pay 
BIG BUCKS! 
Contact Tara at x1124 

WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN GA'S CALL TOM X1441 
$ $ $ NEED 2 stud. tix for MICH. game ­Dan 289-1015 
see CLASS I page 11 

~---~--­
-~ ------~--~--~----­

Thursday, September 6, 1990 The Observer page 11 

McEnroe, Sampras win Open matches
TV 
continued from page 16 
they thought was a five-year, $350 million agreement with the CFA that included Notre Dame. CBS, meanwhile, couldn't offer enough money to broadcast Elkhart High School games, let alone the CFA. 
Both ABC and CBS became aware of the contract after NBC approached Notre Dame. Hence, that eliminated any fo­rum for bidding. And with the intense bidding wars that the networks are waging for sports rights these days, who knows how big the Notre Dame price tag could have been? 
ABC, when it realized Notre Dame would not be a part of the CFA package, devalued its entire five-year deal by an esti­mated $50 million, with the CFA teams losing $30 million. (The remaining $20 million would have gone directly to Notre Dame). 
So, essentially, ABC's $50 million cutback translates into what the network believes is Notre Dame's worth to college football. That's some $12 mil­lion more than what NBC says Notre Dame football is worth. 
Hmmm. Just imagine if ABC and CBS joined NBC in the bar­gaining talks last February and were asked to start the bidding on Irish football. There's not an auctioneer in the country
. 
The Observer 

who could have kept pace. 
f\ 

bidding war could have shat­tered the reported $38 million offer sheet. 
The obvious question arises: 
Why didn't Notre Dame go for 
. the whole enchilada by selling 
itself to the entire market? 
"That's not the way we func­tion," says Beauchamp, who was unfairly cast as the bad guy in this entire soap opera. "NBC came to us and said we'll broadcast these games for this many years and this much money. Now CBS didn't ap­proach us. We are not inter­ested in getting into a bidding war. We felt it presented ethical problems." 
-So ABC and CBS still cry foul. Members of CFA are aghast at the unbelievable wealth that the 
contract will generate for one school. And the University of Kansas announced it won't play a two-game ba'sketball series with the Irish. (Boy, there go our winter weekends). 
But these people haven't con­sidered how much Notre Dame could have made if it didn't go along with a silent, one-to-one agreement with NBC. They also fail to recognize that Notre Dame could have made similar contracts in the past. 
Says Don Criqui, an Irish alum who ironically may call the games for NBC: "Notre Dame could've opened a con­tract similar to this 2S years ago and could've accrued up to $250 million by now. But the university went along as a team player. It stuck by the C:FA and NCAA." 
Forget what could have been. Imagine what it could be after the NBC contract expires. 
Let the bidding begin. 
NEW YORK (AP) -John McEnroe, leaping improbably into the U.S. Open semifinals, toyed with the biggest of the new breed of power hitters, and Ivan Lendl faded against a teen he taught too well. 
McEnroe, 31, played like the master of old in a 6-1, 6-4, 6-4 victory Wedensday night over David Wheaton, a 21-year-old giant with a blazing serve and nothing else that could match the talents of the four-time champion. 
McEnroe treated Wheaton as if he were a beginner, teasing him with drop-shot volleys, passing him easily, returning thundering serves with a flick of the wrist. 
The unseeded McEnroe, who hadn't reached the semifinals here since he was runnerup in 1985, will next take on Pete Sampras, a 19-year-old who serves as hard as Wheaton but also has many of the touch shots and ground strokes that have been McEnroe's trade­mark. 
McEnroe's sweeping serve kept Wheaton off balance, sometimes reaching far out of the court, most of the night, and his brilliant passing shots and volleys intimidated the 6­foot-4 Wheaton. 
"He hit some pretty good shots at the beginning and scared me away from the net," Wheaton said. 
Sampras, touted as one of the best young American power hit­ters in tennis, blasted 24 aces and 27 service winners at up to 120 mph and broke through to the top rank with a 6-4, 7-6 (7­4), 3-6, 4-6, 6-2 victory over Lendl, a three-time champion. 
Sampras, battered so badly in the third and fourth sets that pigeons seemed to circle over him like buzzards, refused to give up in the final set. He charged back with all the youthful strength he possessed to reach the semifinals of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time. 
The slim, slope-shouldered 19-year-old from Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., stopped making the backhand errors that plagued him in the sets Lendl won, and poured on the heat on 
his serve to end Lendl's streak 

of eight straight appearances 
in the finals. Lendl was tied for 
the record with Bill Tilden, who 
reached the finals every year 
from 1918-1925. 
Lendl, a physical fitness buff who is among the best five-set players in tennis, could take some pride in helping Sampras rise to the top echelon of the game. They practiced together for 10 days at Lendl's house in Greenwich, Conn., a couple of years ago and Lendl gave the youngster crucial tips. 
"He had me biking 15 or 20 miles a day," said Sampras, who also got some ideas on diet and match preparation. "We talked a lot and he told me how you have to work to make it. He's a true professional in ev­ery sense of the word. 
"It was ironic. I was thinking about it during the match be­cause he told me you have to train so hard that you can't walk home. I felt just as fit as he did out there." 
"I don't believe what's hap­pening now. It's a dream come true," Sampras said after the 4-hour, 5-minute match. "This is what I've been working for all summer. This is the reward right now." 

DESPERATE!!!!!!! MICHIGAN TIX; need GA's or hiag Eight more daysl!llll STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICEI MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! student; call Brian x3300 still has positions available 
Class 
Think you're the only gay guy forI need 10, that's right 1 0 on campus? You're not alone! SOUND TECHNICIANSNEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX
continued from page 1 0 
Miami tix (student or GA's) I'm just one nice guy interested in STEPAN BUILDING MONITORSFOR MICH JOHN x1384 

VISA OR MASTERCARD!
Every ticKet helps. Family coming meeting for friendship. Discretion and

Evenffbankruptorbad

Looking tor two G.A. tickets to see game. 
assured, it's important to me THEODORES ROOMNeed 2 Purdue GA's.
for the Purdue v~ N.D. game Call Bryan at 2266 
credit! We guarantee you a 

too. Thanks! Steve, P.O. Box MONITORS.
x3566please call Greg at #1594 

card or double your money 

753, South Bend, IN. 46624 To apply stop by
-------------------------------------Hey!! We still need Michigan
WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX MICHIGAN TIX; need 4 GA's; 
315 LaFortune~
back.
tickets. x4189 Molly ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL FRIcall MaryAnn 284-5313 1 MIAMI STUD TIC 

Call (805) 682-7555 
12:15 DOME STEPSStephanie @ 4322 I have stud. and GA tickets to all 

Ext. M1443.

NEED Air Force GAs and stud Dear Brunette,-I forgot to tell youhome games
MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS tix call steve x2924 The Shirt The Shirt yesterday that my roommate said
Call X 1244 

WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM he'd come with us to Hacienda, but NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's for 4 AIR JUNIOFlS he wants to know first if Angie is
Those who ordered The ShirtI need Michigan tickets from the Student Union Board
WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT FORCE GA's. Call x1363. JUNIOHS cute--Sid
2 student Secretary's Desk on LaFortune's(303) 298,9393. ASK FOR BOB. JUNIOFlS

2GA 

PLEASE HELP ME!!!!! 2nd Floor may pick up The Shirt on THEY ARE COMING!
Call Jill 289-8915 

WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, Desperately need MIAMI GA's The Class Cruise is Coming! FRIDAY Sept 7th and there after!! THE 1990 WINDOW POSTERS STANFORD. AIR FORCE, OR September 13, 1990 And don't forget to intimidate those BROUGHT TO YOU BY PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 NEED: 21'vuchigan GAs or 1stud Tickets will be on sale in the
Please sell me your tickets!!!! Wolverines by wearing it on IRISH INSANITY MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239-class office daily from 3:00, 
Saturday Sept 15th!!! 3982. Top Dollar Paid Call Cathy at 273-9624. 5:00 beginning Sept 5. Big Bucks Cups, food and LOTS of tun. 
GO IRISH BEAT WOLVERINES! EVERYONE PLEASE WISH JOHN 
HELP!!! I NEED MIAMI STUD OR Tickets are $20. ASHBY A VERY HAPPY B-DAY GIFT-PENN ST. Wealthy Uncle GA TICKETS! PLEASE CALL PRAYEA MEETING • BIRTHDAY TODAY!!! GOTCHA. KATHY X1704 $$$ DON'T MISS IT! Thursdays@ 7:30pm JULIE 
PLEASE!! NEED 1 OR 2 GA FOR Name Your Price 
MEG#3850 Siegfried Chapel
If any of these phrases catches DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE your eye, please call 
Rich alumnus will pay ?? call Eileen x4815 NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. Andrew @ 1563 
BIG$$$$$ STANFORD CALL 273·1364 CALL KEVIN X1589 YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's for football tix application 
•
$5 HAIRCUTS!!!! or application~ 277-5123 LET'S DEALI Ron x3504 bassisVIead vocals BADLY tor BEER! $$$Sell me your student tix AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! call #1782 Help! Drummer and Guitarist need 
REGULAR & ROTCHELP! I NEED TWO TIX FOR MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR 

classic/danceable rock band~ Scott THEY WILL DISOWN ME~$$$ DRUMMER wanted tor rock band
I need 1 MIAMI stud. ticket DESPERATELY NEED 1 VITO'S BARBERSHOP 239-7666 call Mike at x1701 STUDENT TICKET FOR 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST
CALL GUY AT X1750 with ATTITUDE. Call J.P. 271­SOUTH BEND
MIAMI GAME. Call Christine 0742. Lookout!!! 8 more days until Wealthy Alumni need Michigan x4380 Molly's 21 !I!!
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME GAs. 233-4767
I need a michigan stud tix. CALL 273-1364 Will pay $$$ to see TO's. I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S 
Call Matt x2045 Pat (405)332-3411] Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air
Jimx1583 GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­
PERSONALS ,.
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Force! 4005
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !!!!!! 
call Julie X1992$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BACCHUS

Needed: USC GA's. Will take any

PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT A student run organization DUDE!II!!!II!!!!!! 
amount Contact Scott: 283-1818. NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR
284-4350 promoting responsible Guess who is, like 
PLEASE CALL KARIN AT BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion
drinkin!J on campus. TOTALLY LEGAL TODAY..... 
Needed: 2 Penn State GA's. X1992 groups forming. For info call Carol
I want to buy 2 Stanford GAs. ORGAIIIIZATION MTG.
Contact Greg at 283-1517. 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788.
Call Cory, x2718. THURS. 7:00pm Joyce Karen Bridget Sarah 
PLEASE HELP! PLEASE HELP! 
SORIN RM. LAFORTUNE RAFFO
I need one student Michigan I NEED TO BUY SOMEONE'S Looking tor a really good housing
I am looking to trade All interested please 
ticket. Willing to pay big FOOTBALL TICKET deal? Male (undergraduate)
4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If attend Have a wild and crazy 21st­
money. Call Tim: #2281 APPLICATION. IF YOUR NOT roommate needed to share an 
Love,

interested, call GOING TO BUY FOOTBALL apartmenVhouse~ Washer-dryer,
Hugh at 233-6740. c.c., RAZZ
Mich. StudTix needed. You need TICKETS, SELL YOUR air, storage space. $100-$175 a
I love and miss you! (Happy B,day to "Q"!)
big cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. APPLICATION TO ME FOR BIG month--includes every1hing. (Call
U Need 2 Michigan GAs D.R.
Urgent! BUCKS!!!!I late!) Bill 234-4995
I Need 2 Miami GAs. WINDOW POSTERS! 
CALL KEVIN x1409 or stop
How about a trade? it's got lace doilies....it's got dainty WINDOW POSTERS! 
HELPII DE$PERATELY NEED by 911 FLANNER Do you like camping and kids? Can
Call Bryan at 2266 porcelin trinkets ...it's got a quote WINDOW POSTERS! 
MICH. STUD'S & GA'S. PLEA$E you spare one weekend a month?
book and a collector's plate. WINDOW POSTERS!
CALL MIKE 273 -9338 ND/SMC counselors needed tor a
WHAT IS IT????? WINDOW POSTERS! 
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN local school's environmental 
Jen's dresser top. Vote Jen for THEY ARE FOR NOTRE DAME
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FOR ESCORT ON CAMPUS... camping club--"Earth Crusaders." 
pretties dresser top at ND~ Sign a AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS.
GA's or STUDS PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM Need also musicians for evening
petition today!!!! 

CALL DAN@ X1795 TONY X1590 CALL 283-BLUE campfire. Call Bill (late) 234-4995 sdgf 
--------------~--~ 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1990 
Scoreboard 


BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 

w L Pet GB L10 Streak Boston 76 60 .559 z-7-3 Lost 3 Toronto 71 66 .518 5 1/2 5-5 Won 1 Detroit 66 71 .482 10 112 z-7-3 Lost 1 Milwaukee 64 72 .471 12 z-6-4 Won 1 Baltimore 60 74 .448 15 1-9 Lost 5 Cleveland 60 76 .441 16 1-9 Lost 1 New York 57 78 .422 18 112 z-5-5 Won 1 
West Division w L Pet GB L10 Streak Oakland 86 50 .632 7-3 Won4 Chicago 79 56 .585 6 112 6-4 Won3 
Texas 69 67 .507 17 z-4-6 Won 1 California 68 68 .500 18 z-7-3 Lost 1 Seattle 67 69 .493 19 z-6-4 Won2 Kansas City 66 70 .485 20 z-3-7 Lost 3 Minnesota 63 75 .457 24 z-6-4 Lost 1 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 

w L Pet GB L10 Streak Pittsburgh eo 56 .588 6-4 WenS New York 77 58 .570 2 1/2 z-7-3 Lost 3 Montreal 71 64 .526 8 112 z-6-4 Won 1 Chicago 63 72 .467 16 112 3-7 Lost 1 
Philadelphia 63 72 .467 16 112 4-6 Won 1 St. Louis 61 75 .449 19 3-7 Lost 1
TRANSACTIONS 
SPORTS CALENDAR 

West Division BASEBALL Canadian Football League L GB
Thursday, Sept. 6 w Pet L10 Streak 
American League BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Activated Darren 77 z-6-4
Cincinnati 57 .575 Lost 2 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Purchased the con­Willis, defensive back; Tim Egerton, wide No sports scheduled. Los Angeles 71 64 .526 6 1/2 Lost 2
z-6-4 tracts of Mark Mclemore, infielder. and receiver; and Marion Brown, linebacker; and San Francisco 69 66 .511 8 112 z-4-6 Won2 Stan Jefferson, outfielder, from Colorado Mike Marasco, running back, from the Friday, Sept. 7 Houston 62 73 .459 15 112 7-3 Won 2 
Springs of the Pacific Coast League. practice roster. Activated Paul Wetmore, Men's soccer vs. DUKE, 8 p.m. San Diego 61 73 .455 16 2-8 Lost 2 TEXAS RANGERS-Activated Mike Jeffcoat, linebacker, from the reserve list Placed Women's volleyball hosts the Notre Dame Atlanta 55 80 .407 22 112 7-3 Won5 pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list Emanuel Tolbert, slotback; Mike Henry, Invitational vs. Evansville. St. Louis and Western z-denotes first game was a win 
National League offensive tackle; Kennard Martin, running Mich. CINCINNATI REDS-Recalled Keith Brown, back; and Mark Reid, offensive lineman, on AMERICAN LEAGUE
Saturday, Sept. 8

the practice roster. Released Jeff Stephenson, defensive lineman. 
pitcher, from Nashville of the American Tuesday's Games 
Association. Women's socce vs. DUKE, 2 p.m. Seattle 7. Baltimore 2 PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Called up Jerry Reuss CALGARY STAMPEDERS-Activated Eddie Women's volleyball hosts the Notre Dame Oakland 6, Boston 2 and Vicente Palacios, pitchers; John Brown. wide receiver, from the injured list. Invitational vs. Evansville, St. Louis and Western Detroit 3, Toronto 1 
Cangelosi, Orlando Merced, Steve Carter and Translered Luigi Caiazzo and Srecko Chicago 6, Kansas City 3Michigan. 
Mark Ryal. outfielders; Carlos Garcia, Minnesota 7, Milwaukee 1
Zizakovic. defensive lineman, to the reserve 
Sunday, Sept. 9

shortstop; and Tom Prince, catcher. from list Placed Anthony Hunter and Brock Cleveland 7, Texas 5 
Buffalo of the American Association. Smith, wide receivers; and Art Malone. Men's soccer vs. NORTH CAROLINA ST., 1 p.m. Only games scheduled defensive back. on the practice roster. Women's soccer vs. UNC-GREENSBORO, 1 p.m. Wednesday's Games BASKETBALL HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Activated Terry Late Game Not Included 
National Basketball Association Andrysiak, quarterback, from the inJury New York 2, California CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Released Brian list Released Bill Henry, offensive lineman, U.S. OPEN Oakland 10, Boston 0 Rowsom, forward. and david Adams. running back. Placed Toronto 7, Detroit 3 NEW JERSEY NETS-Named Tom Newell as­James Harris, wide receiver, and Lance Chicago 3, Kansas City 0
Results Wednesday of the $6.35

sistant coach. 
Trumble, linebacker. on the practice roster. Milwaukee 7, Minnesota 4
million U.S. Open tennis tournament

Continental Basketball Association Texas 3, Cleveland 2
TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Activated Keith 
held at the USTA National Tennis

SAN JOSE JAMMERS-Signed Tony Milton, Browner, defensive lineman. Released Jake Seattle at Baltimore, (n)
Center (seedlngs In parentheses):

guard. Vaughan, defensive back. Placed Milt Men Thursday's Games Wilson. defensive lineman. on the practice Cleveland (Candiotti 13-10) at Detroit (Nosek 1-0), 7:05 p.m.
Singles

FOOTBALL roster. California (langston 8-16) at New York (Cary 5-9), 7:30 p.m.
Quarterfinals

National Football League Kansas City (Gordon 10-9) at Texas (Witt 14-8), 8:35 p.m.
Pete Sampras (12), Ranchos Palos Verdes,

CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Lewis Billups, HOCKEY Only games scheduled
Calif., del. Ivan Lendl (3), Czechoslovakia,

cornerback. National Hockey League Friday's Games
6-4, 7-6 (7-4), 3-6, 4-6, 6-2.

DETROIT LIONS-Claimed Dennis McKnight, NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Signed Joe Reekie Oakland at New York, 7:30 p.m.
John McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., del. David

center-guard, oft waivers. Reclaimed Bruce and Chris Pryor, defensemen, to multiyear California at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m.
Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn., 6-1, 6-4, 6-4.

McNorton. cornerback, off waivers. Placed contracts. Seattle at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Willie Green. wide receiver. and Roman PHILADELPHIA FLYEAS-Signed Pat Murray. Chicago at Toronto, 7:35 p.m.
Women

Fortin. guard, on injured reserve. left wing, and Lance Pitlick, defenseman. Cleveland at Minnesota. 8:05 p.m.
Singles

GREEN BAY PACKERS-Placed Shawn VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Announced there­Detroit at Milwaukee, 8:35 p.m.
Quarterfinals

Patterson. defensive end, on injured Reinhart and Kansas City at Texas, 8:35 p.m.
re­tirements of Paul Larry 
Steffi Graf (1 ), West Germany, del. Jana 

serve. Re-signed Blaise Winter, defensive Melnyk, defensemen. 
Novotna (12), Czechoslovakia, 6-3, 6-1.

end. NATIONAL LEAGUE
Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario (6), Spain, del.

INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Ciaimed Mark SOCCER Tuesday's Games
Zina Garrison (4), Houston, 6-2, 6-2.

Herrmann, quarterback, and Scott Radecic, Major Soccer League Atlanta 7, Cincinnati 4 linebacker, off waivers. Chicago 3, Montreal 1
ST. LOUIS STORM-Signed Thompson Usiyan, Doubles
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Placed Dennis Price, forward. Pittsburgh 11, Philadelphia 7
Third Round

cornerback, on injured reserve. Recalled Ron St. Louis 1, New York 0
Natalia Medvedeva and Leila Meskhi (14),

Burton. linebacker off waivers. COLLEGE San Francisco 6. San Diego 4
Soviet Union, del. Patty Fendick,

LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Henry Ellard, ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE-Reassigned Houston 10, Los Angeles 8
Sacramento, Calif., and Zina Garrison (7),

wide receiver, to a three-year contract Lewis Shaine to administrative assistant. 
Houston, default

extension. Wednesday's Games
EASTERN COLLEGE ATHLETIC CON-FERENCE­NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Lawrence Taylor, Announced the addition of Liberty and Late Games Not Included 
Mixed Doubles

linebacker, to a three-year contract and Messiah as members. Pittsburgh 1, New York 0, 1st game
Semifinals

received a two-week roster exemption for ALLEGHENY-Named Shelley Brown women's Pittsburgh 3, New York 1, 2nd game, (n)
Elizabeth Smylie and Todd Woodbridge (8),

him. Signed Matt Cavanaugh, quarterback. assistant basketball and softball coach. Philadelphia 4, Chicago 1 
Australia, del. Rachel McQuillan, Australia,

Waived Robb White, defensive lineman. Montreal 6, St. Louis 2
FRANKLIN & MARSHALL-Named Mick Means 
and Kelly Evernden, New Zealand, 7-5, 6-3.

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Mickey women's soccer coach. Houston at San Diego, (n)
Natalia Zvereva, Soviet Union, and Jim Pugh

Shuler. tight end. Cincinnati at San Francisco, (n)
LE MOYNE-Named Peter Jerebko. men's as­
(1 ), Palos Verdes, Calif., del. Meredith

WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Recalled Stephen sistant basketball coach; John King, as­Atlanta at Los Angeles, (n)
McGrath, Midland, Mich., and Mark

Hobbs, wide receiver; Jon Leverenz, Thursday's Games
sistant athletic director; and Sue Reilly, 
Woodforde, Australia, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3.

linebacker; and Clarence Vaughn, safety, women's assistant soccer coach. Montreal (Gardner 7-8) at St. Louis (Hill 4-3), 1:35 p.m. from waivers. Re-signed Terry Orr, tight MANHATTAN-Named Peter Mastropolo men's Cincinnati (Mahler 7-5) at San Francisco (Garrelts 10-10), 3:35 p.m.
Senior Men

end, and Alvoid Mays, cornerback. Placed golf coach. Chicago (Nunez 1-6) at Philadelphia (Grimsley 1-0), 7;05 p.m.
Singles

Hobbs; Leverenz; Ray Brown, offensive MISSOURI-Declared Tim Bruton, tight end, New York'(Valera 1·0) at Pittsburgh (Tomlin 1-2). 7:35 p.m.
First Round

tackle; Mo Elewonibi, offensive guard; and eligible to play football this season. Houston (Deshaies 6-11) at San Diego (Hurst 8-9), 10:05 p.m.
Peter Fleming, New York, del. Roger Taylor,

Jeff Rutledge, quarterback, on injured re­PENN STATE-Named Joe Hindelang baseball Atlanta (Marak 0-0) at Los Angeles (Hartley 5-2), 10:35 p.m.
Britain, 6-3, 6-3. 

serve. Friday's Games
coach 
Tom Gullikson (2), Palm Coast, Fla., del. 

St. Louis at Chicago, 2:20 p.m.
Dennis Dallas, 6-2,

MIDWEST LEAGUE COLLEGE FOOTBALL Ralston, 6-3. 
Cliff Richey, San Angelo, Texas, def. Bob Lutz (4). San Clemente, Calif., 3-6, 6-4, 6-LEAGUE LEADERS . 
4.

Division Finals (Best-of-3) The National College Sportswriters 
Hank Pfister (1 ), Bakersfield, Calif., det.

Northern Division 
Football Poll with first place votes in Based on 352 at Bats
Owen Davidson, The Woodlands, Texas, 6-1,

Friday, Aug. 31 
parentheses and total points. NATIONAL LEAGUE
7-6 (7·3).

South Bend 1 , Madison 0 G AB R H Pet.
Alex Mayer (3), Los Altos, Calif., del. Tom

Saturday, Sept 1 
1.Miami(16) 449.5 Dykstra Phi 126 498 93 170 .341
Okker, Netherlands, 6-2, 6-2.

South Bend 4, Madison 1, South Bend wins 2. Notre Dame (6) 432.5 McGee Stl 125 501 76 168 .335
Ilia Nastase, Romania, del. Wojtek Fibak,

series 2-0 3. Florida State 'if 403 Magadan NY 117 356 59 118 .331
Poland, 7-5, 0·6, 6-4.

4. 
Auburn (2) 387 Duncan Cin 106 374 59 118 .316

Paul McNamee, Australia, del. Marty


5. 
Michigan 339 Murray LA 128 459 76 143 .312


Southern Division Riessen, Santa Barbara, Calif., 6-4, 6-7 (7­
6. Colorado 312 TGwynn SD 130 529 71 165 .312
Friday, Aug. 31 9), 7-6 (7-5).?.USC 301 Grace Chi 131 493 56 152 .308
Quad City 5, Cedar Rapids 4 Dick Stockton, Dallas, del. Jaime Filial,
8. Tennessee 284 Bonds Pit 125 430 89 132 .307
Saturday, Sept 1 Aspen, Colo., 7-6 (1 0-8), 6-3.
9. Nebraska 

267 Larkin Cin 133 517 73 158 .306
Quad City 10, Cedar Rapids 3, Quad City 
10. Clemson 262 Dawson Chi 121 439 54 134 .305
wins series 2-0 Senior Women
11.111inois 193 LoSmith 377 115
Atl 112 56 .305
Doubles

12. 
Texas A&M 172 Roberts SO 125 462 84 141 .305

First Round


13. 
Alabama 170 Wallach Mon 133 SH 55 157 .305


Wendy Turnbull, Australia, and Virginia

13. Virginia 170 
Wade (1 ), Britain, del. Laura DuPont,

15. Ohio State 130 Home Runs
Championship Louisville, Ky., and Valerie Ziegenfuss, San
16. Arkansas 119 Sandberg, Chicago, 32, Bomlla, Pittsburgh, 31, Mitchell, San Franc1sco, 31,
(Best-of-5) Diego, 6-1, 6-2.
17. Pittsburgh 104.5 Strawberry, New York, 30, MaW1Ihams, San Franc1sco, 27, Gant, Atlanta, 26, Bonds.
Tuesday, Sept 4 Olga Morozova, Soviet Union, and Betty
18. Brigham Young 93.5 Pittsburgh, 25; Saba, Cincinnati, 23.
Quad City 6, South Bend 2 Stove, Netherlands, del. Donna Floyd Fales, Wednesday, Sept 5 19. Penn State 39 Miami, and l\lancy Richey, San Angelo, Texas, Runs Batted In 
South Bend 10, Quad City 2, series tied 1-20. UCLA 36 MaWilliams, San Francisco, 101, Bonds, Pittsburgh, 99; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 99;
6-2, 4-6. 6-2. 

JCarter, San Diego, 99; Strawberry, New York, 90; Wallach, Montreal, 83; HJohnson,
1 Maria Bueno. Brazil, and Sharon Walsh-Pete, New York, 82; Mitchell, San Francisco, 82; Sandberg, Chicago, 82.
Thursday, Sept 6 Albuquerque, N.M., del. Evonne Goolagong and
Other receiving votes; Washington 34, 
Pitching (10 Decisions) .
South Bend at Quad City Kerry Reid, Australia, 6-2, 7-5.
Houston 34, Oklahoma 24, Michigan State Darwin, Houston, 10-2, .833; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 18-5, .783; Tudor, St. Lou1s, 11-4,
Friday, Sept 7 Rosie Casals, Sausalito, Calif .. and Billy
20, West Virginia 16, Fresno State 9, .733; Cook, Philadelphia, 8-3, .727; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 16-6, .727; Gooden, New
South Bend at Quad City Jean King (2), New York, del. Francois Durr,
Syracuse 7, Arizona State 7, Wyoming 5, 
Saturday, Sept 8 York, 15-6, .714; Robinson, San Francisco, 10-4, .714; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667;
Phoenix, and Pam Teeguarden, Los Angeles,

Arizona 2, Louisville 2, Georgia Tech 2, 
Sampan, Montreal, 10-5, .667. Duke 2, Toledo 1, Oregon 1.
South Bend at Quad City, if necessary 6-3, 6-1. 

Thursday, September 6, 1990 The Observer page 13 
three years). player for Colorado, was called Williams also earned All­the "best big-play artist in the
Butkus 
America honors from AP, UPI, land" by The Sporting News. continued from page 16 Kodak Coaches, Walter Camp Besides Williams, and Football Writers, and be­Stonebreaker and McGhee,
like someone's going to go out sides naming him to their All­
other strong picks for the 
there and go for the Butkus America Team, The Sporting award are Miami's Maurice award. You just go out and win News said he "will vie for the Crum (6-0, 222), who has led games. If the plays
defense top pick in the '91 draft." the Hurricanes in tackles in 
well, these things are going to Another highly esteemed pre­each of the past two seasons;come." 
season candidate is teammate Georgia's Morris Lewis (6-4,The frontrunner in the pre­Kanavis McGhee, a 6-5, 250-227), who had 10 sacks last 
season Butkus picks, however, pound outside linebacker for season; and Clemson's Levon is not Stonebreaker. That the Buffaloes. McGhee, who Kirkland (6-2, 230), on one of 
honor goes to Alfred Williams, came back from an ankle injury the country's deepest lineback­a 6-6, 230-pound outside last season to be a high-impact ing corps in the country.
linebacker from Colorado. Williams was named Big Eight Defensive Player of the Year by the Associated Press, United 
The Observer 
Press International, The Sporting News and Big Eight 
Join the more than 12,000 readers who have found 
Coaches based on his over­
the Observer an indespensible link to the two 
whelming ability to penetrate 
campuses. The Observer in your home for $2!5 a
the offensive line and sack the quarterback (22.5 sacks in 
semester or $40 for a full year, The Observer 
/ 
P.O.Box Q

POI§·\:.-fl.,,<~!gl} I.--aur.en 
Notre Dame, IN 46556
· ll.'!-Pci¢toty.Stbre 
RETAIL HELP 
The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory 
:· .~HM N! i
Store is seeking qualified Individuals to fill the following 
i Interested in joining <£>tudent i
positions for its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
: Govemment? : 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER 
FI'IPT SALES ASSOCIATES 
•* Positions are now available for Hall •* Experience with bettermen's and 
: Representitives to the 1990-1991 Freshman :
women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with 
: Class Council. : 
experience. Please apply in person at: 
: For details and application, contact your hall : 
oloJB.alph Lauren Factory Stor 
: president or call Student Government at :
Lighthouae Place 101 Wabuh Street 
: 239-7668. : 
Michican City, IN 

-.~.~~·····~..····--···..····-······..····--···....4t··~~~-·­
one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape · Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. 
And, remember, Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 

10% discount on food to all ND/SMC students, farulty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID required). So why put up with stale pizza and sandwiches... __ 
when you can come home to ~H~a~ci~en~d~a~?.---::;-fi;J4"::~--·
uo((\e to Hacie
Hours: 
Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. 

e.'{' 1Jqq
Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-10 p.m. 
(;0~ 
American Express, VISA, 
=-~~ 
Master Card accepted. 

Hiifiiiuu 
• · · · · • · • · · · • • · • · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · '©'Hacienda MexiCan Restaurants -'1990 
--~­
................................................................... 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Champi­onship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to anyone in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The entry fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 p.m. Entry forms. are available in the golf pro shop. 
Anyone interested in joining the men's and women's varsity track and field teams, there will be an important meeting on Friday, Sept. 7th at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 
Any interested in playing women's off­campus football, call Jill at 288-0597 or Jennifer at 273-1814. 
Racquetball players of all skill levels 
who are interested in joining the Racquetball Club, call x2334 or x2333 and leave a message. 
Hall Athletic Commissioners -Please call the Non-Varsity Office immediately to give them your name, address and phone number. This will get you on the 1990-91 mailing list, enabling you to re­ceive NVA info for your hall. Call 239-5100. 
Hours for Rockne Memorial until Fall Break are: Swimming, Mon.-Fri. 7-9 a.m., noon-6 
p.m. and 8-11 p.m., Sat. from 1-6 p.m. and from 7­11 p.m., and Sunday from 1-6 p.m. and 7:30-11 p.m. The Third Floor Weight Room is open Mon-Fri. 3­
10:30 p.m. and Sat.-Sun. noon-9 p.m. All other facil­ities are open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-11 p.m. and Sat­Sun. 10 a.m. -11 p.m. Family hours are Sundays from 2-5 p.m. 
The Water Polo Club will have an introduc­tory meeting at 6:30 p.m. Friday, Sept. 7th in Montgomery Theater. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will begin meeting this week. The club offers instruction in both Tae Kwon Doe and Jiu Jitsu. Beginners classes meet Thursday from 7-9 p.m. and Sunday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. Returning advanced students begin Friday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. All classes are in 219 Rockne. For more information, call Denis at 283-2090. 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
(FCA) is having their first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Everyone is invited to attend. 
Off-Campus soccer will have practice this 

Friday at 4:30 p.m. on Stepan Field. If you cannot attend, please call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 

preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "is.ew" l5AT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help a5 needed in our TEST-N-TAPP lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. And watch the scales tip in your favo1: 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Glances 1717 E. South Bend A'Ve. 
South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
;-----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1990 
that he puts no stock in any­Graham won the NCAAs last program which has recently thing Thompson has to sayyear and beat her teammate made a major commitment fi­
Fall Notes 
about his stay at Oklahoma,Sandra Birch in the finals. nancially. They had a tremen­calling him "a sociopath, a
continued from page 16 Sandra had won it (the NCAA dous recruiting year; they will continued from page 16 
criminal". Furthermore,
title) the year before. I'm sure be a young team, but they willcruited the number one, four Meanwhile, his star quarter­Switzer claims Thompson'sand five players in the United they'll play at number one and be very, very talented." 
two (singles) for them." Western Michigan will meet back, Charles Thompson, is book was written simply toStates." 
Creighton at 5 p.m. on October putting the finishing touches on make money. 
Notre Dame women's tennis The Irish soccer squad will face Ohio State at 8 p.m. on 5 and Ohio State at 12:30 p.m. a book of his own. Thompson, At least he's not going on a
coach Jay Louderback will face October 5 and Creighton at 3 on October 7 to round out the who is currently serving a two­promotional tour.
competition at that is just as year prison term on a convic­p.m. on October 7 at Krause Irish Soccer Classic. 
formidable at 6 p.m. at the Eck. 
tion of conspiracy to distributeStadium. Coach Mike BerticelliThe Cardinal women have won 
eta life!

said he does not really know The Golden Dome Volleyball cocaine, documents the
NCAA team titles in each of the widespread presence of illegalpast five years, and seven of the what to expect from his own Classic will begin on October 5, drugs and firearms in players' 
Join

team, but offered some insight with LSU facing Hofstra at 6past nine. 
on his opponents. p.m. and the Irish hosting dormitories in the forthcoming
"(Stanford's) top two return­"Down and Dirty: The Life and 

The Observer 
ing players have won the past "Ohio State is one of the most Oklahoma at 8 p.m. at the Crimes of Oklahoma Football". 
two individual NCAA titles," formidable teams in the tour­Joyce ACC. The Classic will continue on October 6. Switzer has repeatedly said
Louderback said. "Debbie nament, and Cre is a 
No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes ends October I. 
1990. For complete details and rules visit your campus bookstore. Sweepstakes open to anyone 16 years or older. Void where prohibited by law. 

Make The Grade With Pilot 
Win a FREE all-terrain bike in Pilot's Free Wheelin' Drawing. 
Head to your college bookstore now and look for Pilot's Free Wheelin' bike display. That's where you'll find entry forms for a chance to win a hot new Columbia Metro IQ-speed all-terrain bike -a S160 value. All entries for this campus cruiser must be postmarked by October I, 1990, so hurryl 
And while you're there, don't forget to stock up on Pilot's 
quality writing products like the Better Ball Point Pen, Spotliter, Pencilier and our long-lasting printer, typewriter and calculator ribbons.
[PILOT] 
From course grades to steep 
® 

grades, Pilot makes it easy.
Quality Office Products Since 1918 


page 15

The Observer
Thursday, September 6, 1990 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS ACROSS 35 Generosity 66 Off Broadway 37 Oat genus award
Thursday 1 Singer Lesley 
38 See 20 Across 67 Resentful

4 p.m. Radiation Laboratory Seminar: "Direct 
41 Birthmark

Ionization Effects in DNA: Study of Mechanisms Using 5 Cry of regret 
42Cancelled

EPR/ENDOR Crystallography," William Nelson, &Recoiled DOWN
43 P.S. building 

Department of Physics, Georgia State University. 141ndigo 
15 Vichyssoise 44 Rabbits' 1 Blarney stone 
Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. Sponsored by 
cousins gift

16 Casals's
Radiation Laboratory. 
46 Greenish blue 2"Sail­

instrument 47Barbara­Union!"
17 Home for a 
10:30 p.m. "Life Choices" program: "Investments in 
tome Geddes 3 Dolores Del-
i-::..--+--+-+­
South Africa," WNIT-TV. Sponsored by the University of 48Singing 4Wapiti
19 Gazelle
Notre Dame. brothers 5Amaze
20 With 38 and 50 
Across, so See 20 Across 6 Weft and woof possible slogan 56 Gem measure milieu
Filming for the Lou Holtz Show will take place on 
for NOW 57 Liz-of S.C. 7Halo 
Friday from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. at WNDU Studios. Anyone in­8 Pantry, in Ayr 
22 Flower's pollen 62Biessed­terested in speaking with Coach Holtz should call bearer 63 Induce ennui 9-Fiow SportsChannel's Chicago office prior to the filming at (708) 26 U.S. spy org. 64 Congress­10 Angler's fly 524-9444. The show will air Sunday on SportsChannel and 27 Pear, to Pedro woman­11 Pelvic bones again on WNDU Saturday, September 15 from 1 p.m. to 2 28British-Okar of Ohio 12 Subject of 
p.m. 31 Suffragist Anna 65 Down at the B.F.'s kite 
Howard-heels experiment 13 Bush's 
-------------Secretary of 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZl:LE La~or 
~:-r.::-r='~ 18 Neighbor of Norw.
4 p.m. Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Direct Ionization 
21 Fem. sibling 

Effects in DNA: Study of Mechanisms Using EPR/ENDOR .:,.:+:;..r;~,-Ei 22 Strip for 33 Temper steel so Chills the 55 King of the Crystallography," Prof. William H. Nelson, Department of drawing curves 34 Walking like a bubbly Huns Physics, Georgia State University, Conference Theatre, 23 Nap~raising duck 51 Church section 58 Apt. units Radiation Laboratory. Admission Free. Sponsored by -=t±:+:=-E-E-1 plant 36 French 52 Dendrologist's 59-Paulo, Radiation Laboratory. "'=+==+=,~ 24 Achieve connectives concern Brazil 
success 

37 Tempe inst. 53 "The-that &OGov. Kay·­25 Champagne 
39 Unit rocks ..." of Neb. 
size 

40 Disturb 54 Schwandorf's 61 Comedian29 Reno-to-L.A. 
river Louis
MENUS -:+.±±'Ei dir. 44 "F~.r-ajolly 
-:-:+;,+:±::,BB:::+.:-i 30 "Vilia" 45 Syrian city 
composer Answers to any three clues in this Notre Dame -=+:::+-:-+=! 31 Slim and trim 47 Rose in "Golden puzzle are available by touch-tone -=+::=+:-=+=-! 32 Medic or Girls" phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each
Top Round of Beef 

medicine 49 Neckline style minute).
Baked Sole w/Rice Dressing Stuffed Shells Baked Potatoes 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
-
THE FARSIDE , GARY LARSON 
~~ l.'\t\ lOO~II-IG M~~~~G M'i O'tolt-1 toR t>-Pt>.GE 0~£. ~E~S?Af'tR It> 
HI \t\Clt-\: l"lt\ 
LEII..O "SroRi. 
CLARK •KENT! 
ON"L 

W'HfiT AR£ YoU 

£'-j£1-l\5 OF 0\JR 1~\ER'HEW '(O\l? 
RE~RI nit 
I:IO'JSEI-IOLD. 


MOVIES THIS WEEK: 
Thursday, September 6 " Fast Times at Ridgemont High" 
8 and 10 pm Montgomery Theatre 
Friday, September 7 "Halrlem Nights" Saturday, September 8 "Hard to Kill" 
8 and 10:30 pm Cushing Auditorium 

STUDENT UNION BOARD
admission: $2.00 
-
' 
Sports
page 16 

Thursday, September 6, 1990 
ND welcomes Weekend of Champions 
By KEN TYSIAC 

Associate Sports Editor 
Yesterday Notre Dame offi­cials announced the completion of a schedule for the October 4­7 Weekend of Champions, which will give several Irish sports teams an opportunity to showcase their skills against top competition. 
Highlights of the weekend will include appearances by the Olympic gold medalist Janet Evans and the Stanford men's and women's swim teams, the Wichita State baseball team which won the College World Series in 1989 and the Stanford men's and women's tennis teams, which have won nine out of a possible ten NCAA titles in the past five years. 
Also scheduled for the week­end are the Irish Soccer Classic and the Golden Dome Volleyball Classic. Ohio State, Creighton and Western Michigan will participate in the soccer tour­nament, while LSU, Oklahoma and Hofstra will compete in the volleyball tourney. And last, but not least, the Irish football squad will host Stanford. 
"All in all, if you enjoy sports and enjoy the opportunity to see amateur sports at its best, collegiate sports at its best, you will be getting a special treat on this weekend," Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal said. 
Mayor Joe Kernan, a former Irish baseball player, also voiced his enthusiasm for the upcoming collegiate sports ex­travaganza. 
"I think what we have seen over the past few years is a re­turn to excellence in all of the (Irish athletic) programs," Kernan said. "I hope that not only the student body and some of the people who are in for the football game and the Notre Dame family, but also parts of the greater community will be able to participate as well." 
Evans, who won three indi­vidual NCAA titles in 1990 and is a world record holder, will lead the Stanford men's and women's swimming teams against the Irish at 4 p.m. on Friday, October 5 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Stanford men's team finished third in the NCAAs in 1990 and won three national championships in the 1980s. 
Irish baseball Coach Pat Murphy will try to find a way to defeat Wichita State in games on October 4 and 5 at Coveleski Stadium. The Shockers have a pitcher named Tyler Green who is one of the most sought-after prospects in the country. Murphy's squad also has a pretty talented pitcher in sophomore David Sinnes, who led Division I hurlers with a 
1.05 ERA. A match-up between Green and Sinnes could turn out to be a sensational show­case of college pitching. 

"As you know, in '89 Wichita State won the national champi­onship, and Gene Stephenson is one of the most recognized coaches in America for his years of success," Murphy says. "They happen to be a very strong returning team." 
· The Stanford men's tennis team, which will visit the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 6 p.m. on October 5, has captured four NCAA titles in the past five years. Irish tennis Coach Bob Bayliss said that the Cardinal's talent is second to none in the 

nation.  
"They  return  three  All­ 
Americans.  Only  six  players  
start,  so  that's  a  pretty good  

nucleus," Bayliss said, punctu­ating his understatement with a hearty laugh. "They've also re-
see FALL I page 14 

-Stonebreaker leads Butkus field 
One of the many predicted ac­colades being thrusted upon
The 

him is the Dick Butkus Award, 

Post-Season 

presented since 1985 to the na­tion's top linebacker. Forget
Awards 

the fact that Stonebreaker did 
art Three of Four 

not play in the 1989 season.L------------' Forget also that he sat out for 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It  has  been  more  than  19  
months  since  linebacker  
Michael  Stonebreaker  has  

played in a collegiate football game, but that hasn't stopped predictors from including him in the elite inner circle of pre­season All-America picks. 
One can find his picture with fellow All-America choice Todd Lyght on the regional cover on The Sporting News's college football issue. Inside, there is a long football story on him. In the Notre Dame Football Magazine Preview, there is an­other full-length feature on "Stoney." 
the 1987 season for academic reasons. And don't even worry about the fact that Notre Dame has never had a Butkus award winner. 
Just remember the success he had in the 1988 national cham­pionship season. 
Stonebreaker, playing inside linebacker at the "eagle" posi­tion, spent more time on the field than any other linebacker. He ranked second on the team in tackles (1 04), including a 17­tackle performance vs. Michigan State and a 16-tackle effort vs. Michigan. He finished third in the Butkus balloting in 1988 behind Derrick Thomas of Alabama and Broderick Thomas of Nebraska. 
In 1989 Stonebreaker was forced to sit out the season due to circumstances resulting from a February 1989 automo­bile accident. Despite having to come back from a drastic hip injury and having not played in more than a year, he is a fron­trunner for the top national honor for linebackers. 
··u's something that's good that after having to sit out with my problems, shows that after hours and months of rehabili­tation, I can come out and get back to form, said the 6-1, 228­pound Stonebreaker. "It's also something that, if the defense plays well, then the defensive accolades are going to come." 
Defensive accolades started brewing in the 1990 spring football practice when Stonebreaker earned defensive MVP honors after making six tackles in the Blue-Gold game. 
"I don't know if there's any great attention for this award," said Stonebreaker. "It's just the kind of thing where they'll vote on it after the season. It's not 
see BUTKUS I page 13 

bidding war could have land bigger TV contract for the Irish 



They say it'll be about $38 million. Thirty-eight million clams for five years of Notre Dame football on NBC. 
It sounds like an ungodly amount of money for just one team, one school, one financial aid office. The scary thing is, it possibly could have been a lot more. 
A whole lot more. 
Notre Dame officials were licking their chops when the NBC contract was finalized on Feb. 5. Finally, they ag.reed.. th~re. is ~n easy way for a 
pnvate mstitutwn hke Notre Dame 
Vic Lombardi 
On The Air 


Switzer takes to the road to promote his dirty laundry 
Last week, former Oklahoma football coach Barry Switzer voiced his con­cern for the integrity of colle­giate athletics by charging unidentified Notre Dame rep­resentatives with offering 
Tony Brooks "illegal induce-
Frank Pastor 
ments" in violation of NCAA recruiting rules in his autobi-Football Notebook 
ography, "Bootlegger's Boy". . . This week, Switzer departs on a multi-City speak­ing tour to promote his new book and, presumably, air more dirty laundry. , 
But before he decides to become college football s collective conscience, perhaps Switzer should step back for a moment and consider the deep impres­sion he has left on the Oklahoma football program. 
Since tendering his resignation as head coach of the Sooners on June 19, 1989 amidst allegations from Oklahoma administrators that he had gambled on college football, fixed drug tests and permitted the use of cocaine on his team, Switzer has spent the past year rationalizing his actions and trying to 

convince the rest of the country that. things at 
Oklahoma  weren't  as  bad  as  they might  have  
seemed.  
So, in  a  last-ditch attempt to  deflect attention  

from the Oklahoma football program, Switzer de­cided to write a book and make some allegations of his own. 
The object of his accusations is Brooks, not sur­prising considering that many consider Switze.r:s failure to land the Tulsa star in 1987 and the cnti­cism from boosters that followed as major factors in his decision to leave the university. 
It also is not surprising considering Brooks's on­again, off-again status at Notre Dame. J.ust w?en Brooks thought his troubles were behmd h1m, Switzer points to his recruitment as an example of everything that is wrong with college football. 
Switzer claimed knowledge of the "apparent" vio­lation in 1987, but chose not to inform the NCAA because he feared alienating a major Tulsa contrib­utor who happened to be a Notre Dame graduate. 
Oddly enough, Switzer concluded his tirade against Notre Dame with a pronouncement about the "pressure placed upon college administrators 
because of the constant need for money and the im­
pact that it has upon athletics." 
Switzer spent Tuesday fielding questions from re­
porters concerning his recent admission to The 
National that he knew some Sooners players were 
taking steroids during his time there and failed to 
confront them about the problem. 
Answering the reporters' queries with anything but the class and dignity with which Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has responded to his accusers in recent weeks, Switzer sounded downright of­fended by the whole matter. 
"Taking steroids?" Switzer said. "Everybody's 
taking them. Oklahoma, Nebraska, for years did it. 
No one thought anything about it. 
"It had been going on for years and no one cared because no one was getting hurt. You're not robbing 7 -Elevens, you're not murdering someone to get steroids." 
Apparently the events of the past few years have numbed Switzer to the effects of a simple NCAA in­fraction. 
see NOTES I page 14 
-
Notre Dame 

07~~51331 
IIIIIII IIIII 111111111111111111111 1111 1111 
0~30850 
Box: 31 
Volume: 23 
lssue:10 
Day: Fri 
Date : 9/7/1990 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 


,------­


VOL. XXIII NO. 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Foreign captives warned not to try escaping Iraq 
(AP) -Iraq tightened the 
pute over land, mon~y and oil. 
screws c.1 trapped Westerners • Bush on Iraqi TV/ page 4 "We will not stand by \vhile on Thursday, warning that one 
country devours another 

anyone trying to leave without unthreatening country whole,"
permission could face life in up its small gulf contingent. Bush said at a Kansas fund­prison. The Soviet Union raised 
At the United Nations, diplo­raiser. "Our cause may not be 
the possibility of Kremlin sup­mats said U.N. Secretary­easy, but it will always be port for sending a U.N. military General Javier Perez de Cuellar right."force to the Persian Gulf. planned to send an envoy to oc­In a surprise move, Bush said Saudi Arabia committed sev­cupied Kuwait to meet with he would make a statement for 
eral billion dollars toward de­diplomats whose embassies are broadcast to the Iraqi people, fraying the enormous cost of surrounded by Iraqi troops, saying he saw "a real opportu­the U.S. forces protecting the and with trapped foreigners. nity" to explain the U.S. view. J kingdom's oil fields from pos­Baghdad would have to give its Baghdad had offered to broad­sible Iraqi aggression, U.S. and consent for the visit. cast an interview wiith Bush, 
l
Saudi officials announced. The State Department again but the White House said the 
U.S. officials said the Saudis blasted Iraq for its treatment president would tape a state­would, at a minimum, pick up of foreign nationals, including ment instead. 
1
all fuel, water and transporta­the shooting of an American in Statements by the Iraqi pres­
tion costs for the 60.000 Kuwait who was trying to avoid ident -which White House 1 American troops now in Saudi capture. Department wags call "Saddamathons" ­Arabia. Earlier this week, spokesman Mark Dillen called have received ample air time in ! I
Baker told Congress the U.S. Iraq's behavior "outrageous." the United States, and the Bush I presence would cost about $6 Washington and Moscow, administration was reportedlybillion by year's end. meanwhile, scrambled to pre­irritated about this. 1 
Both U.S. and Saudi officials pare for the weekend super­Word that Moscow might The Observer/David Short l declined to provide a specific power summit they hope will support a U.N. military force in Student Body President Rob Pasin is shown here during his first
price tag for the commitment. 
bring a break in the nearly 5-the gulf came from Soviet student body address yesterday. Pas in mentioned projects he andBritish Prime Minister week-old crisis. Foreign Ministry spokesman vice-president Fred Tombar worked on over the summer including the
Margaret Thatcher pledged President Bush said the 
Gennady Gerasimov. He indi­attempt to obtain a 24 hour center in Lafortune Student Center. 
more forces to bolster the U.S. United States was determined cated Mikhail Gorbachev maycontingent in the gulf. She did to force Iraqi President discuss the idea with Bush at not elaborate on the deploy­Saddam Hussein to withdraw· their summit Sunday in ment plans. from Kuwait, which Iraqi 
Stud Gov't opens
see GULF I page 6

Egypt, too, said it was beefing troops overran Aug. 2 in a dis-
year with address 
By BETSY PUNSALAN ing to Tombar, who has been News Writer receiving about 20 calls a day. 
The creation of a 24-hour Pasin noted the need for a 
space in the basement of complaint procedure that 
LaFortune is expected to mate­would bring individual student rialize soon, according to Stu­complaints directly to Student 
dent Body President Rob Pasin Government. The new proce­and Vice President Fred 
dure would allow students to 
Tombar in their first Student file complaints in the dorms,Body Address last night. 
which would then be brought by"We worked on it this sum­the dorm president to the Stu­mer for a while," said Tombar dent Government Legal De­
of the 24-hour space. "We hope partment for review. this will become a reality sometime this semester, but at As promised in their cam­
least by next semester." paign last year, Tombar said Student Government also emergency phones and added 
worked this summer on the de­lighting in the parking lots are velopment of a lecture series, in the process of being in­according to Pasin, who was stalled. "[The University's)aided by Dr. William Sexton, working on it and it \viii happenvice president of University Re­as soon as possible. It's just a 
lations. Fifty invitations were matter of University bureau­sent to various speakers and, cracy." thus far, Student Government has confirmed engagements In other related security mat­with such notable figures as ters, Pasin said Student Gov­CBS White House Correspon­ernment is considering extend­dent Leslie Stahl, former Ari­ing SafeWalk to other areas zona governor Bruce Babbitt around campus, as well as ex­and HUD Secretary Jack Kemp. tending the Weekend Wheels 
Pasin and Tombar want to shuttle service to off-campus improve communication be­locations. tween the student body and Student Government . Student In response to a question re­Government newsletters \vill be garding Notre Dame's gay and distributed in the dorms in the lesbian community, Pasin re­hopes of creating a government sponded, "Notre Dame is a 
"more receptive to the needs Christian community and ideallyand concerns of the student should be loving and acceptingbody," according to Tombar. of all its members. (Fred and I) 
Pasin is also currently working would support recognition of on an Observer column in an the (Gay and Lesbian) Club." effort to maintain close ties 
•·,. ~-~:::~v __ :~>~ .~·~ ··' with the student body, and he Last night's address was the hopes to utilize other forms of first of three anticipated for campus media for this purpose the 1990-1991 school year.
d:~~~~~· 
as well. Pasin said he hopes the open . APPhoto Student Government has insti­forum format will encourage
Manan G.eorg~, 2 , waves as she is ~eld by. her n:other, Nithal George and watched by sister Rheem, 11, 
tuted a suggestion line, nick­student participation so that 
upon .the1r arnval at Newark lnterna.t1onal A1rport m Newark, N.J. Wednesday. The family was among 24 
named "the FRED-line," as a Student Government can be
Amencans who were held hostage 1n the Pers1an Gulf and arrived on a Virgin Atlantic Airway flight from
Jordan. · way to improve communication held"more accountable to stu­with the student body, accord-dents." 
The Observer Friday, September 7, 1990 
pa~ 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Shedding light on the topic of parking 
Question: What gives off the most light in the D2 park­ing lot? 
Answer: A full moon. Until the adminis­tration decidfs to put 


in some more :ights in Robyn Simmons D2, it looks like the man on the moon will Asst. Accent Editor be the only person watching over the students who have to walk through the poorly lit parking lot at night. 
For those people who might not be famil­iar with this particular parking lot, D2 has lights set up around the perimeter of the lot, but there isn't any sufficient lighting in the center of the lot--where all of the cars are parked. 
The parking lot is so dark that it is diffi­cult for students to even find their car, and spending 15 minutes wandering around a dark parking lot is equivalent to someone wearing a big sign on their chest saying, "Rob Me." 
As a result, anybody who needs to use their car at night would be risking their safety by walking there alone, and even if they did have one or two friends accompa­nying them, there are still plenty of hiding places for a band of attackers to lie in wait for unsuspecting students. 
The solution is simple: get more lights in D2. The more lights there are, the less hid­ing places there are for thieves and as­sailants, and the safer the students will be. Adding a few more security guards wouldn't hurt either. 
The University's Safewalk program is a step in the right direction towards increas­ing student safety, but the parking lots are so dark at night that I doubt even the bravest safewalkers would want to trot through D2. Students shouldn't have to add a can of mace to their keychains because the administration doesn't feel like adding a few more lights in the lots. 
Something tells me that this University has enough money to afford to put up more lights in all of the campus parking lots. As the number of on-and off-campus attacks escalates, the administration should become increasingly aware of the problem of poorly lit parking lots and do something to rectify that situation. 
The problem of insufficient lighting in the parking lots has gone on for an inexcusably long time. What has to happen before the administration decides to do something about this serious safety problem? I cer­tainly hope it doesn't take another attack in the parking lot to get the administration to do something that should have been done a long time ago. 
This University needs to "lighten up" in more ways than one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 
ProductionNews 

Cristina Ortiz Mike Owen 
Paul Pearson Jeanne Blasi 
Systems

Accent 
Cesar Capella Fran Moyer 
Brian Grunert 
Paul Froning Robyn Simmons 
Orculation 

Bill O'Rourke Ken Tysiac 
Sports 
Matt Novak Rolando deAguiar 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 7. Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's High:  8 9  
Yesterday's  Low:  72  
Nation's  High: 106  
(Borrego Springs, CA)  
Nation's Low: 36  
(Wisdom, MT)  
Forecast:  Cloudy  and  
cooler today with  a  70  
percent  chance  ;f  
thunderstorms. The hit •h  
will be around 80. Partly  
cloudy and cooler tonight  
with  a  low  around  60.  
FRONTS: • •• •COLD WARM  •• •STATIONARY  Sunny and Saturday with the 80's. ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  pleasant a high in  
Pressure  
® <D  tm'  ~  [I]  ~  w  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame Voices of Faith gospel SARG, Student Alumni Relations Group, will hold its ensemble will have its first practice tonight at 7 p.m. in first meeting of the year Monday, September 10, at 7 p.m. 115 Crowley Hall. in room 107 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The Daily Shillelah calendar of events is 
Neighborhoods Study Help Program available for off-campus and graduate students at the needs students to tutor children in centers throughout Information Desk in LaFortune Student Center. South Bend. There are a variety of times and locations available, and we provide transportation. There will be an The "Academic Code of Honor"section on organizational meeting September 9 at 6:30 p.m. in the page 18 of the Fall 1990/91 Schedule of Courses booklet Library Auditorium. Any questions, call Patty Wogan at was printed in error. Beginning with the Fall 1990/91 4570 or P.J. Sheil at 1236. semester, all undergraduate students, including seniors, 
are governed by the Code. 
The Environmental Action Club will hold The Internal Revenue Service ORSl its first organizational meeting Sunday, September 9, announced Thursday the relocation of the South Bend of­from 7-8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. fice. The new office, which is located at 611 Lincolnway East, will open Monday, September 10. The new facilities increase public accessibility to the IRS and provide ample 
Cry the Beloved Country. the movie. will free off-street parking for area taxpayers. The office is begin Mrica week Sunday, September 9, at the Annenberg conveniently located close to the Indiana Department of Auditorium at 7:30p.m. Revenue Office at 501 E. Monroe. 
Irish singer Sinead 0' C 0 n n 0 r' S stark "Nothing 
Scientists in Boston have discovered two defec­Compares 2 U" won best female video tive genes that cause dangerous thickening of the heart,and Billy Idol got best video from a the leading medical cause of sudden death among youngfilm Thursday to kick off the seventh athletes. Glitches in these genes result in an inherited dis­annual MTV Music Video Awards. The order known as familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.23-year-old O'Connor won the first Victims are prone to suffer heart rhythm problems and round of the angst vs. flash battle with heart failure or to die suddenly from cardiac arrest. Madonna's vampy "Vogue" video, Among the most notable victims of cardiomyopathy was which captures a trendy nightclub dance. "Nothing Com­basketball star Hank Gathers of Loyola Marymount, who pares 2 U," written by Prince, garnered five nominations collapsed during a game in March. Experts are uncertain,and is the biggest hit of her newest album, "I Do Not however, whether he had the inherited form of the dis­Want What I Haven't Got," which topped the Billboard ease. charts for weeks. 
WORLD 
Mail bombs exploded Thursday at· the trading floor and on the 11th floor of the Economy Min­Madrid Stock Exchange, the Economy Ministry and the istry, a police spokesman said. Minutes later, the third Constitutional Court, and six people suffered minor in­bomb exploded at the Constitutional Court on Madrid's juries. Police said a shadowy leftist group claimed re­western edge, Spanish National Radio reported. The six sponsibility for the midday blasts. The first two explo­injured, all at the stock exchange, were treated for cuts sions in occurred at about 11:30 a.m. off the exchange's and bruises at a hospital and later released. 
-

INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
A high school teacher in Elkhart felt the Persian Gulf crisis down to the soles of his feet Thursday when he dramatized energy con­servation by walking 11 miles to his classroom. Scores of students joined government teacher Don Chenoweth, voting with their feet in favor of reducing the United States' dependence on for­eign energy sources. "The prices are going up," says Coleman Davis, a 14-year-old freshman at Concord High School who walked several miles. 



"So if lots of people from our school walked, 
NYSE Index 
176.06 {}-1.87
we'd save gas." 
When your

S&P Composite 320.46 {!> 3.93 
A Bloomington woman filed suit 
Thursday against a Japanese manufacturer and 
party leaves 

Dow Jones Industrials 
three distributors of the dietary supplement L­
2,596.29 {!> 31.93
tryptophan, which she claims gave her a rare and 
home­

deadly disease that makes her blood "feel like it's 
Precious Metals 
on fire." L-tryptophan in the past year has been 
designate a

Gold it$3.60 to $389.70/ oz.
linked to the blood disorder eosinophilia myalgia syndrome, or EMS, in more than 1,500 Ameri­
Sliver it 3.7¢ to $4.770/ oz. 
driver

cans, resulting in 27 deaths, according to the fed­eral Centers for Disease Control. 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 3 
Drug lord can be extradited despite new policy 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Despite the government's offer to stop extraditing drug king­pins, Colombia's senior cocaine kingpin still would be sent to the United States for trial, a top government official said Thursday. 
Pablo Escobar, head of the Medellin cocaine cartel, would be sent to the United States un­less he turns himself in and confesses all his crimes, said the official, who is involved in policy and decision-making. He spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. 
The Bush administration cau­tiously endorsed the new policy. "If the government and people of Colombia are now able to enforce their own laws against drug trafficking -prosecuting, convicting, and incarcerating 
these thugs-so much the bet­ter," Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said in a statement from Washington. 
But he warned that "if the so-called extraditables fail to take advantage of this opportunity to surrender ... we will continue to support Colombia's effort to arrest and extradite them to the United States for trial." 
President Cesar Gaviria modi­fled a year-old policy by an­nouncing Wednesday that co­caine traffickers who surrender to Colombian authorities will not be extradited to the United States. 
Gaviria said the decision, which came in the form of an official decree, applies to those who surrender, not those cap­tured by police. 
"If Escobar were captured to­day, he would be extradited," said the official who spoke Thursday. 

He said Colombia would not allow the new measure to be­come a "joke" in which major drug criminals confess only mi­nor crimes to avoid extradition. 
"If Pablo Escobar surren­dered but failed to confess all of his crimes, he would run the risk of being extradited," he added. 
The government hopes to con­vince medium-and lower-level drug smugglers to surrender and cooperate with authorities, he said. 
Officials blame the Medellin cartel, which Escobar leads, for killing about 500 Colombians the past year, including three presidential candidates. 
Thousands of others have died in fighting between rival drug gangs and violence by right-wing death squads financed by drug traffickers. 
During the past year, the Medellin cartel has been de­manding an end to extradition, the fate it fears most. 
In repeated statements, drug traffickers have offered to turn themselves in to Colombian judges, in an apparent attempt to persuade the government to end extraditions. 
The Medellin cartel in July de­dared a unilateral cease-fire in its terrorist attacks, apparently hoping the new administration would end extraditions. Gaviria was inaugurated Aug. 7. 
The official said it was neces­sary to show the Colombian people that the president is seeking solutions based on the country's own justice system. 
Total reliance on foreign courts saps people's confidence in Colombia's institutions, he added. 
Gaviria's predecessor, Virgilio Barco, undertook extraditions to the United States a year ago, after drug traffickers declared war on the state. 
Extraditions are controversial in Colombia because many peo­ple believe sending citizens to face trial abroad is an insult to national pride. 
However, Colombia's justice system has so far failed to keep any major trafficker in jail. Drug lords often bribe or threaten officials into letting them go free. 

AP Photo 

A group of tank commanders review their plans during breakfast for the day's training man,euvers as they sit in the sand near an M-1 Abrams tank in Saudi ~rabia Wednesday morning. The crew is from the 24th Infantry Division based at Ft. Stewart, Ga. Troops such as the ones from the 24th Infantry have been on alert for almost f1ve weeks. 

SOUTH BEND'S FRUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-UIEEKLV SPECIRLS-
Rnd ... of course ... THE BEST 
1J1JI.E ~~JJJf;UIC UN J.DlJJ/:1 

THURSDAY: High Energy Rock-n-roll with "DIGITAL HAIR" FRIDAY: Straight from FARM AID "THE HAMMERHEADS" SATURDAY: Rock -n-Roll at its best "1-900" 
r:--------------­
CLEVELAHORD

I $1.00 OFF COUER 1 

~A~ 

I c61JelJalJiJli~JeS I !t.A ~ s:-~ I I ­
9Xp. 9-9-90 J 1MileNorthofNotreJ?alJ!-eonEmmonsRoadL In Georgetown Shoppins; Center • 277-ln? 
Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
Hap~>Y 20th Birthday 
"Dirty Di" 

Get a life!l 
Join The Observer 
Calvin and Hobbes, Far Side and Spelunker 
Friday, September 7, 1990

page 4 The Observer 

AP Photo Secretary of State James Baker speaks with Sen. Jesse Helms, A­N.C., left, prior to an appearance before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Capitol Hill Wednesday. Baker said the U.S. and its allies must plan a new "regional security structure" for the Middle East that would not only stop Iraqi aggression but deal with future crisis in 
the ion. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

GnemaSttle 
at n1te 
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS 
Bush will appear on Iraqi TV, but on own terms, spokesman says 
TOPEKA, Kan. (AP) ­President Bush will accept Saddam Hussein's offer to broadcast a message to Iraq, but . only on his own terms, Bush's spokesman said Thursday. The president will make a tape in lieu of an inter­view with an Iraqi TV crew. 
"It's a real opportunity," Bush said of Saddam's offer to televise the U.S. leader's com­ments. Bush's spokesman said the president had "a very dis­tinct message" to give the Iraqi people about American reasons for the massive military buildup in the Persian Gulf. 
Iraqi Ambassador Mohamed al-Mashat said in Washington that "of course" Iraqi TV would air Bush's message "in its entirety without editing. Here you edit, in Iraq we do not edit." 
Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Bush's address would be eight to 10 minutes long. 
"We will have a whole pack­age for broadcast on Iraqi tele­vision, and then we'll have a State Department interpreter who will provide the interpreta­tion some way" into Arabic, Fitzwater said, adding that the tape will be released generally. 
On another topic, looking ahead to this weekend's super­power summit, Bush said he will use the meeting not only to discuss the Persian Gulf with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev but to press for a quick resolution to strategic arms talks. 

Before embarking on a one­day political trip to Kansas and Florida on Thursday, Bush spoke by telephone with a num­ber of world leaders on the gulf situation and his upcoming meeting with Gorbachev. They included Syrian President Hafez al-Assad, Turkish President Turgut Ozal, French President Francois Mitterrand and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the White House said. 
He also called United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to thank him for his unsuccessful try at resolving the gulf crisis in talks last week in Iraq. 
Bush also met Thursday with Israel's visiting foreign minis­ter, David Levy, in Washington. 
Naji al-Hadithi, director gen­eral of Iraq's Information Ministry, said in Baghdad that an Iraqi television crew was ready to go to Washington to interview Bush for a broadcast on state-run television. 
Fitzwater said that wouldn't be necessary-"we'll produce it ourselves." 
"Although we have not heard from Iraq directly, we accept their offer of a broadcast to the Iraqi people. The president will tape a message to the Iraqi people in the next few days which will be provided to the Iraqi information minister," Fitzwater told reporters ac­companying Bush on Air Force 
One. 
Bush has said he wished he could have the media access in Iraq that Saddam has had on 
U.S. television. The Iraqi presi­dent's statements and appear­ances have been broadcast widely, many of them on live and unedited CNN reports. 
"The president has a very dis­tinct message that he wants to give to the people of Iraq about our purpose for being in the gulf. He thinks this is a good opportunity," Fitzwater said. 
On a separate matter, Fitzwater said that there is no new economic package for the Soviet Union in the offering, although the Sunday summit meeting in Helsinki will offer a chance to talk about "technical assistance." 

··················=·-·~ 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, SPM
•DINNER SPECIAL 
DINNER SPECIAL • 
Purchase any dinner 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Purchase any dinner •
•
~t regular price and 
at regular price and : 
All seats reserved: $19.00 
receive another dinner 
receive another dinner : 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office,
of equal or lesser value 
of equal or lesser value: 
Nightwinds Record Connection and all the usual in and out
at half price with this 
at half price with this: 
of town locations. Charge by phone: 284-9190
•
coupon. 
coupon. : 
Tickets also available at LaFortune Student Center
Expiration date: 9-15 
Expirationdate:9-15: 
~-l 
1
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer I
page·S 

j
Judge keeps bond for susp1ect in UF murders 
SHARPES, Fla. (AP) -A acting out ... neurotic or psy­judge Thursday cited bizarre chotic behavior." behavior as a reason to uphold Jail officer Emily Glaab testi­a $1 million bond on an assault fled Humphrey described him-charge for a young man sus-self as dangerous and "a sav­pected in the slayings of five age," threatened a female in-college students in Gainesville. mate, and called himself 
Homicide task force investi-"John" and warned "John gators were searching the 18-doesn't take no prisoners." year-old's Gainesville apart-Brevard State Attorney Norm ment and car for clues to the Wolfinger, arguing for the high slayings. But police cautioned bond, said "The fact remains he is only one of eight leading he is a suspect in the Gainesville suspects, and his brother said murders and he knows that." he's being made a scapegoat. Public Defender J.R. Russo 
Because of the unusually high objected, and the judge agreed bond, Edward Humphrey has he couldn't set a bond based on been in the Brevard County jail a case Humphrey hasn't been since Aug. 30 on a charge of charged in. However, the judge battering his grandmother. said he would be doing "a dis­
"I see before me a very dis-service to the community" if he turbed individual," Circuit allowed Humphrey to go free. Judge Martin Budnick said at Budnick ruled that Humphrey the bail-reduction hearing at is a danger to the community. the jail. "I see a great deal of But he indicated he would con-
Hymns composed by Warner published in Canadian book 
Special to the Observer 
"Psaltery," a collection of li­
turgical music by Steven 
Warner, associate director of 
the University of Notre Dame's 
Office of Campus Ministry, has 
been recently published by GIA 
Publications of Chicago. 
The collection includes ten re­sponsorial psalm settings for keyboard, guitar, harp, vocal soloist and four-part choir. The music was written by Warner for Sunday Masses at Notre Dame. 
A combination of two genres 
of sacred music designed for 
use by liturgical assemblies 
with either organ or guitar as 
the leading instrument, 
"Psaltery," according to 
Warner, "seeks to bring to­
gether contemporary liturgical 
music, by way of its lyricism 
and expressiveness on the gui­
tar, with traditional chant 
styles, with its free-flowing 
sense of rhythm and modal 
progressions." 
Some of the material in the collection have been approved for inclusion in the "Canadian Book of Worship," the hymnal used by most Catholics in Canada. 
Warner has worked in the University's Campus Ministry office since 1979, when he be­gan work on a master of arts degree in liturgical studies at Notre Dame. Among the musi­cal instruments with which he is proficient are the guitar and the Irish harp. 
Warner is director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, which regularly leads the music at the 
11:45 a.m. Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart Church. He has taken the choir on two interna­tional tours, both to the Republic of Ireland, in 1988 and 1990. 
For the last two year, he has managed Campus Ministry's li­turgical celebration of the Feast of Saint Patrick, using music written in collaboration with with parishes and litunti­
cal centers in Ireland and di­recting the Folk Choir in a recording of the Mass. 

sider another request for bond reduction and wanted to hear medical testimony about Humphrey's mental condition. 
RU!!,SO did not comment after"\ard on whether he would seek another hearing. He said he was preparing for the trial on the aggravated assault charge, tentatively scheduled for Odober. 
Humphrey's grandmother testified she didn't want to press charges and would wel­come Humphrey back into her home, where Humphrey's mother also lives, in Indialantic, 180 miles from Gainesville. 
"I want it dropped ... defi­nitely," Elna Hlavaty, her right cheek and right eye badly bruised, said as Humphrey watched. 
She said she didn't fear her grandson, although she had called police repeatedly. 
She said she couldn't remem­her anything about the night of the incident other than that she hurt her right side when she fell on a concrete floor. The 79­year-old Hlavaty protested she was old and ill and couldn't an­swer any more questions from prosecutors. 
Sheriff's Deputy Douglas Hammack testified she told him the night of the arrest that she feared Humphrey would beat her again. Humphrey started banging his head against his patrol car when Hammack put him inside, the deputy testified. 
Hammack said he had gone to the grandmother's home five or six times on disturbance complaints and was told Humphrey was refusing to take 
medicine to control mood swings. 
He testified on one visit he had Humphrey remove a knife from the front seat of his car and lock it in the trunk. 
Besides Humphrey's apart­ment, detectives searched his grandmother's home and his black Cadillac. Authorities said the grandmother's home was unoccupied during the search because the family was at the hearing. 
George Humphrey, a University of Florida senior, charged that his younger brother is being made a scape­goat and that the press is sen­sationalizing the killings. 
"Ed didn't do it, Ed didn't do it. He's not capable of it," Humphrey told reporters in Sharpes. 

APPhoto 

First l~dy Barbara Bush takes a call while appearing on the ABC Radio show American Agenda aired from Washtngton Wednesday. The show, hosted by Peter Jenkins, focused on literacy in America. 
Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 


Rugby 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan Saturday, September 8 Stepan Field Admission Free 
Just Show Up! 

Friday, September 7, 1990 
page 6 The Observer 
Dukakis allies put end to rebellion 
BOSTON (AP) -After being governor, would not take any held a political hostage by a action Thursday night. D'Urso mutinous lieutenant governor, did not rule out Murphy acting Gov. Michael Dukakis departed later. on a European trade mission Murphy, who is lagging in her Thursday as his allies moved to Democratic primary race to quash the rebellion. succeed Dukakis, had been a 
Dukakis had delayed his strong supporter of the travel plans Tuesday after Lt. governor in his 1988 bid for the Gov. Evelyn Murphy threatened presidency. But with the state in to seize control of a fiscal disaster and Dukakis Massachusetts' feeble finances not seeking re-election, once he left. politicians have treated him as 
"I think the episode of the a liabilitv. past 24 hours is really kind of Dukakis decided to postpone pathetic," Dukakis said at a his travel plans, prompting brief airport news conference some observers to say he was before boarding his plane to being held hostage by his own Germany. lieutenant governor. 
While Dukakis allies mt.. !d to Dukakis bitterly denounced quash the rebellion Thursday. the tactic as a maneuver with references to a new form designed to gain favor with of "Murphy's Law" and an voters in the gubernatorial 
· "attempted bloodless coup," race. On Thursday, aides to Murphy said her boss was Dukakis echoed that charge. acting "weird" by not letting "Here's a lady who isn't her assert herself. going to get elected governor 
"There's no good will here no matter what she does, and and certainly no mutual she is dangerously flirting with respect," Murphy said. the economic health of the com­Dukakis said he did not speak monwealth of Massachusetts. to Murphy on Thursday, but he That's irresponsible," said L. said he believed her assurances Edward Lashman, state that she would act respon­secretary of Administration 
siblity in his absence. But he and Finance. Lashman said he said he could cut his trip short isn't publicly supporting any if anything occurs that affected candidate in the Sept. 18 the government's stability. primary. 
Murphy spokeswoman Jody According to recent public D'Urso said the lieutenant opinion polls, Murphy is well governor, who is seeking the behind her two Democratic Democratic nomination for opponents. 
Gerasimov spoke a day after Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq
Gulf 
Aziz, met with Gorbachev and displayed no softening in Iraq's refusal to leave Kuwait. Helsinki, Finland. Moscow and Baghdad were 
Previously, the Soviets had longtime allies, but Gorbachev said only that they might par-has condemned the Kuwait in­ticipate if the United Nations vasion as "treachery." decided to deploy a military Expenses escalate daily for force. the U.S. military deployment, 
"We have to go back to the and Treasury Secretary 
U.N. charter and revive certain Nicholas Brady arrived clauses of this charter ... which Thursday in Seoul, South
NDASA announces Africa Week 
may have armed forces -in-Korea, the latest stop on a tour 
ternational armed forces -at to press allies for funds. By SARAH VOIGT assert their own culture and to • A panel discussion entitled its disposal so as to keep inter-Secretary of State James Baker News Writer combat homesickness for their "Recent Political Developments national peace and security," was making the same pitch in 
homeland." he said. "It will also in Southern Africa" will be held Gerasimov told reporters. Saudi Arabia. Africa Week, a first annual promote stronger awareness 
in the Engineering Auditorium'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-''''''''''''-'-'-'-'-'''''''''''''"
series of academic and artistic about African issues." on September 12 at 7 p.m. ~ ~ events scheduled on campus Kougniazonde said that the first of
from September 9-14, was or­NDASA conceived • A discussion entitled "The~ B • h d ~ ganized by the Notre Dame Africa Week as an attempt to Crisis of the Post-Independence~ Happy lrt ay ~ African Students Association recreate the enthusiasm for African State" will be held in~ ~ (NDASA) to discuss and cele­African unity observed in Africa Theodore's at Lafortune on~ rw~ nn\V} ~r?~ n~ R(ol ~ ~ brate African culture. on May 5. September 13 at 7:30p.m. ~ tfu~ljljij IJIJ \S.llJ~lJ~[jlJ ~ 
According to Christophe The events scheduled for Kougniazonde, president of the Africa Week include the follow­• A closing reception with~ ~ NDASA, "Africa Week coincides ing: ~
special African dishes, music~ GO SMC 
with one of the goals of Notre • The film "Cry the Beloved and dance will be held in Stepan~ ~ Dame, which is intercultural di­Country," based on Alan Pa­
~~.ter on September 14 at 8~ SOCCER/ ~ 
versity, a dialogue between dif­ton's story of South Africa, ferent cultures. We want to en­shown in the Annenberg Audi­• Two documentary videos, ~ ~ courage this, to provide a fo­torium of the Snite Museum on "The Africans," by Ali Mazrui~ ~ rum for issues about Africa." September 9 at 7:30p.m. and "Traditional and Modern~ Love, ~ 
Kougniazonde believes that • The Geke Ballet, Chicago African Music," will be shown~ ~ Africa Week will satisfy two based dance company, will per­in the Montgomery Theatre of~ Mom & Dad ~ important needs on campus. form to African drums in LaFortune every day Septembers .··· ~ "This week will help Africans Lafortune on September 9. 
10-15. ~ ~ 

Air Force Reserve Col. Robert Schuldt and his wife, Carolyn, bid farewell before the remains of their son Capt. Br~dley Schuldt: are l~id to rest Wednesday in Arlington Heights, Ill. Capt. Schuldt was among 13 people krlled when therr Persran Gulf-bound C-5 transport jet crashed shortly after takeoff in West Germany 
last Wednesday. 
Correction 
The headline on an article in the Business section of Thursday's Observer regard­ing auto insurance rates was incorrect. It should have read ."Hoosiers pay 13th lowest insurance rates in nation." 
Have a nice day!· 

PliO
•·o11 
specialists in pro bikes is welcomin~students back to school by taking 1O~of1 a full selection of 1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
Mon-Fri 10 am-7 pm sat 9am-5pm on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison) 272-0129 
~''''''''-''''''''''''''''''''''''''''" 

HEY JEFF! 
HOW MUCH HAVE YOU GROWN THIS 
YEAR? 
[f{]£[F)[F)W 

®~~lf[D][WLA\wgg 
FROM THE GANG 

--~---------~------~----------­
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer a e 7 
Judge: Mapplethorpe case must go to trial 
CINCINNATI (AP) -A jury spective is a vehicle for display­must decide whether an art ing the five S&M photographs," gallery and its director broke he said. obscenity laws by exhibiting Defense lawyers contend the five sexually graphic Robert 175 pictures in the exhibition­Mapplethorpe photographs, a mainly portraits and pictures judge ruled Thursday. of flowers -aren't obscene 
Hamilton County Municipal when considered as a group. Judge David Albanese ordered ''I'm disappointed in the rul­Dennis Barrie and the ing. I think the court is incor­Contemporary Arts Center to rect," said Barrie's lawyer, H. stand trial Sept. 24 on one mis-Louis Sirkin. demeanor charge each of pan-Sirkin said he wouldn't know dering obscenity. how Albanese's decision would 
Barrie and the gallery already affect his case until he reviews were scheduled to go on trial the judge's ruling. that day on one charge each of "It certainly doesn't help us," using children in material in-Sirkin said. volving nudity. Albanese said The charges were filed April the trial, which will address the 7, the day the exhibition opened obscenity and nudity charges, to the public. The exhibition could last 10 days. closed May 26, after 81,000 
In his order Thursday, people had visited the gallery .. Albanese rejected defense ar-The child nudity charge is guments that the obscenity based on separate shots in t~e charge should be dismissed be-exhibition of a boy and a g1rl cause state obscenity law ex-with their genitals exposed. erupts legitimate art displays. The Mapplethorpe exhibition 
"This argument combines opened Aug. 1 at the Institute facts, affirmative defenses and for Contemporary Art in issues of credibility. This court Boston. On Wednesday, A court will not pretry the case on clerk in that city refused a re-those issues," the judge said. quest to file obscenity charges. 
Each charge carries a maxi-Marc Mezibov, the lawyer for mum penalty of six months in the Contemporary Arts Center, jail and a $1,000 fine for Barrie asked Albanese whether he was and a $5,000 fine for the aware of the Boston ruling. Contemporary Arts Center. Mezibov said he believes it 
Albanese also granted a means the pictures have artistic prosecution request to let value and would be immune jurors see only the five pho-from obscenity charges. tographs that depict sado-Albanese indicated he had not masochistic sex acts when con-read the ruling. He cautioned, sidering the obscenity charge. however, that Massachusetts 
Prosecutors will only have to obscenity law differs from prove that one is obscene to Ohio's, and that the Boston de­win a conviction, the judge said. cision would have no bearing 
"The court believes the retro-on the Cincinnati case. 


Prepping for rugby 
The Observer /David Short 

Although rugby does not have the status that football does on this campus, several interh~ll teams have sprung up around campus for this interesting game including these players shown stretchmg out. 
Special to the Observer 
"Bruce Bobick: Beans, Quilts, Chance and Determinism," a one-man show featuring quilts and quilt paintings, will open at the Suite Museum of Art Sept. 9 (Sunday) and will continue through October 21. 
Bobick received his master of fine arts degree from Notre Dame in 1958. He is professor and chairman of the de­partment of art at West Georgia College, Carrollton, Ga. 
The quilt series grew out of Bobick's interest in the workings of the subconscious and Louis Pasteur's words, "Chance favors the prepared mind." The exhibit explores "the opposing concepts of de­terminism and free will," Bobick said. 
"In studying history, one becomes aware of the sup­posedly random flukes of luck that have resulted in famous discoveries or inventions, and by knowing that the subcon­scious mind is active during sleep," he said, "I thought it appropriate to do a series of quilts made by grandmothers of famous individuals. The im­ages on the quilts permeated the subconscious of the sleeping children night after night and led directly to the famous discovery, invention, or work of 
art." 
Bobick will be present at the opening of his exhibition and will speak about his "use of beans as a metaphor for the human condition." 
Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday (when classes are in session). The museum is closed Monday and all major holidays. Admission is free. 
Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

Good
Sunday, September 9 
health

Cry the Beloved Country 
starts with 
Annenberg 17:.30 pm 
good nutrition. 
Monday, September 10 Joseph Garba, President of the 

Palla Dllh~•. La1a11:""• l'rllurin~. Mani«•lti. 1'...,1, Oli~:knt ('.arcinto._, (fl<-J:tnila, &.t-r, l+in.,., B<UVJ'"" [!"""'­
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
--, DINNER4 P.M.-11 P.M. :
General Assembly, UN 

~"232..4244 /~
"New Politics Among Nations" 
\South of Notre Dame's Golden Doj~ 
Washin ton Hall 7:00 m ''"'~~~ 
page 8 The Observer Friday, September 7, 1990 
-----~--------~~ ----~----­
~-~ ------------~­
Bridge blocked in Mohawk dispute reopens after 2 months 
MONTREAL (AP) -The carriers in the early morning Mercier Bridge linking mist. Montreal to its south-shore Commuters had started lining suburbs opened Thursday for up their cars an hour earlier, the first time following an horns honking impatiently as eight-week standoff between they waited for the army to armed Mohawks and police. wave them through. 
As army pipers played, hun­"It's about time," one man on dreds of cars and trucks drove his way to work at a Montreal onto the bridge from suburban refrigerated warehouse told a Chateauguay, through the radio station. "The government Kahnawake Mohawk reserve should never have let this hap­and past armored personnel pen in the first place." 
Female football 
The bridge normally handles about 70,000 vehicles during the daily rush hour. It was bar­ricaded by natives from the Kahnawake reserve after provincial police staged an abortive attack on a Mohawk barricade at Kahnesatake near Oka, Quebec, on July 11 in which an officer died. 
The bridge closure led to vio­lent demonstrations by south­shore commuters, including an 
The Observer /David Short 

Members of the Breen-Phillips interhall football team jog in the hot sun yesterday in preparation for their first match-up on the gridiron. With the startup of interhall teams, football season cannot be far behind. 
JACC scheduled to present Food Pavilion this weekend 
Special to the Observer 
The First Annual WSBT-TV South Bend Women's Show/Kroger Food Pavilion will be held at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center September 7-9. 
The show will feature more than 150 booths, fashion shows, beauty demonstrations, cooking demonstrations and aerobic workouts. Michael 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. 
O'Leary, star of the daytime televsion series "Guiding Light," and Don Diamont, star of the series "The Young and the Restless," are scheduled to ap­pear during the weekend. 
The show will be held on Fri­day, Sep. 7, lla.m.-9 p.m.; Sat­urday, Sep. 8, 10a.m.-8p.m.; and Sunday, Sep. 9, 12p.m.­6p.m. Tickets are $3 for adults, $2 with a discount coupon. Children under eight will be admitted free. 
Have a nice day! 
t 100 CENTER t MISHAWAKA . 
WELCOME BACK ND and SMC : tonight: 
Dr. BOP and the Headliners 

i• 
9:30pm 
* 1/2 price admission Wed-Sat with college I.D. 

I• 
• Nightly specials. . . •i 
: 256-0710 for details 
~...............................t 
~.&:>J~· 
<ill!il@l 

incident last week in which a white mob hurled stones at a convoy of Mohawk women, children and invalids escaping the reserve. 
The stage was set for the re­opening when barricades at Kahnawake came down last week after an agreement was reached between the army and Mohawks. 
But in Kahnesatake -where the Mohawk deadlock began over a land dispute -soldiers spent Wednesday firming up their positions around the last Warrior stronghold. 
The deadlock at Oka began when provincial police stormed a barricade the Mohawks erected to stop the town's plans to expand the local golf course, saying the property in question was part of their ancestral land. 
~ illJLt ®1 ~ Iru fh~ q 
al Meetings are also a time to meet other people like yourself.
IFtiD.t!;tnlllil)Y11 ~1LIDC9l ~il~1~ff 
Our Discussion Groups provide ,1 
group of peers to talk with about 
the issues of being gay, lesbian, or 
bisexual in a world that often mis­
understands homosexual people. 
The Discussion Groups sometimes 
have a topic or theme, but people 
are always free to talk about what­
ever they are feeling.
. First Monthly 
The Student Discussion Group
General Meeting 
will be meeting weekly, starting 
this Tuesday night. A Faculty/ Staff Discussion Group is now forming. 
For more information on any of these meetings, or what our group is all about, please call one of the numbers listed below. 


For more information, call 
Mike 237-0788 Carol 232-3330 John 259-3157 

Our monthly General Meetings are a chance for everyone in our group to get together and discuss upcoming projects, lectures, and events in a friendly and unthreat­ening fomm. Along with provid­ing an opportunity to plan and an­nounce group activities, the Gener­


........~----~------~------~---.------------------------~--.-----~~~--~------~-------------------.~~----~.-------------~--~--~~~---­
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
NEED lWO MICHIGAN GA jen's in first place so far, but she TO MIKKI, NONICA, CIZ, LATHY, CALL COLLECT AND THE BADIN BROTHEL­
still needs your votes. Vote JEN,313-663-4830 DON'T FOIHGET ABOUT THE
PRETTIEST DRESSER TOP AT
Class 
M-TH AFTER 8:15PM ND. You'd be her if you could, STUDY (BEER) BREAK IN 305 F-SUN ANY TIME MONDAY!! LOVE, VCB
wouldn't you??? 

continued from page 14 
NEED ALL THE STANDFORD TIX 

BEERI $$$Sell me your student tix Think you're the only gay guy 
I CAN GET. GA's & stud. CALL HEY DILLON FRESHMAN:
or application. 277-5123 on campus? You're not alone! DENNIS X2384 I'm just one nice guy interested in Where's my bra? meeting for friendship. Discretion 
--Swingin' in Farley Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket 
assured, it's important to me 
Call Chris X227 4 

I need 1 MIAMI stud. ticket too. Thanks! Steve, P.O. Box call Mike at x1701 753, South Bend, IN. 46624 
~ANTED 

HELP!! Need MICH stud TIXII HELP!!! call Tanja x1511 Campus rock band PHOENIX Wealthy Alumni need Michigan looking for lead singer. Classic 
GAs. 
rock -no wimps! I would like student tickets 
Call Matt x2045 ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL TODAY 
Pat (405)332-3411) 12:15 DOME STEPS 
for all home games, esp. for call Peten:1414 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Penn St.llll Call Jeff x1747 The Shirt The Shirt 
$5 HAIRCUTSII II Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm REGULAR & ROTC
Those who ordered The Shirt 
little, so DON'T HURT MElli And

NEED AIR FORCE STUD. TIXI!I from the Student Union Board 
give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for VITO'S BARBERSHOP
PLEASE CALL JEFF X1836 Secretary's Desk on LaFortune's 
Stanford and Purdue. x2632 1523 LINCOLNWAYWEST
2nd Floor may pick up The Shirt on FRIDAY Sept. 7th and there after!! 
SOUTH BEND I need a Michigan student tic. 
Needed: USC GA's. Will take any And don't forget to intimidate those 
You need money. Call me. 233-4767
amount. Contact Scott: 283-1818. Wolverines by wearing it on 
Jay x2290 

Saturday Sept. 15th Ill Needed: 2 Penn State GA's. Contact Greg at 283-1517. GO IRISH BEAT WOLVERINES! 
Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air Force! I need one student Michigan MARY GARINO: Why are you 
call Julie X1992 ticket. Willing to pay big sitting in the grass?? 
PERSONALS 

ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR THANKS, ST. JUDE money. Call Tim: #2281 
BISEXUAL.? Weekly discussion KD 
groups fonning. For info call Carol hiag 
232-3330 •>r Mike 237-0788. 

I need 2 Mich. Stud. tix TOP TEN B-DAY QUOTES from Will pay very good $$$ NEED lWO MICHIGAN TIXS TUESDAY NIGHT: Looking for a really good housing Please call Drew @ 1789 PLEASE CALL KARIN AT 10. "Do you guys know Jay?" deal? Mahl (undergraduate) 
X1992 9. "We're going to a prayer roommate needed to share an meeting.• apartment'house. Washer-dryer, NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? Cheap Haircuts!!! 8. "Pasquale, please give us just air, storag•l space. $100-$175 a "If you can describe it, I can do it. one shot?" month--inc:ludes everything. (Call ME TOO Rm #628 Grace (Bryant) late!) Bill 234-4995 
7. "Do you love me, will you love 
me forever?" 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami 6. "I have size 14 feet." Do you like camping and kids? Can fans that need humbling. 5. "Alii how was Hands-on you spare one weekend a month? 
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN Hanson?" ND/SMC cnunselors needed for a 272-8954 Amy ESCORT ON CAMPUS... 4. "Show me the way to go home...• local scho•ol's environmental EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM 3. "Monica, do you always hold camping club--"Earth Crusaders." CALL 283-BLUE Need also musicians for evening 
your !arts in?" I have 2 stud tix for all NO home 2. "I twisted Brian's." · campfire. Call Bill (late) 234-4995 · 
games 271-0999 Best Offer Rich alumnus will pay 1. "AMAZING GRACE--Praise the BIG$$$$$ LORD!" THE SHIRT 
HELP!!I! NEED 3 MIAMI and Thanks to all my buddies for THE SHIRT
for football tix application 1 PSU tix for the family. Will call #1782 making my b-day great. Thanks THE SHIRT pay top $ for the tix! Siegfriedites and Observerites for GET PSYGHEDI call 4867 and ask for Amy my cakes and cards. Thanks GET PSYCHED! 
P.I.G.. GET PSYCHED!
Cengiz for my special card (TB). 
Happy 1 yearll You have made THE SHIRT
Most of all, thanks Monish, ET, me the happiest person in the THE SHIRT
Liza, Alii and Rach (our wonderful 
world! Soon we will be united for THE SHIRT
COKED up driver) for a fun-filled 
Alumni dad coming from Calif. life. We have a lot to look forward 
evening. (Thanks Rob & Terry for NEED one mich. GA to!! Can Still be Purchased on
that special guest appearance.) 1930 I LOVE YOU! F.LE.A. LaFortunels 2nd Floor SUB
Can't wait 'till next year 21 !II --KT Secretary's Desk until game day! 

:::::::::::·········· K from 
T~Ke a b~e:andwiches.
p1zza an . ·· 
After a long day of classes and endless homework. one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. 
And. remember. Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 

1 0% discount on food to all ND/SMC students. faculty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college 10 
required). So why put up w~t~"th~sta~l~e~p~iz=za~a=n~d~s~a~nd~w:-i~ch~e~s-~--;:~~~...;.....:...:-:-----1
when you can come home t~ Hacienda? 
Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 



••••• 0 •••••••••••• 
:Grape Road at Indian Ridge_ Plaza, Mishawaka (Near Phar-_Mor and _T.~ ..Maxxl .z:n~ 1_3_1(3: 
· © Hacil!nda Mexican Restaurants ~ Hey Off Campus/Graduates/Faculty The 
Environment
Shirt is Still Only $8 so if you missed the order deadline pick up the Real McCoy Today! 
center opens 
Dear Sid: Of course Angie is cute. But how do we know about your 
iF'1 Budapest
roommate? See you tomorrow at the Grape Road Hacienda-­
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP)­

Brunette 
Hungarian President Arpad THEY ARE HERE! Goencz planted a tree Thursday THE 1990 WINDOW POSTERS to mark the opening of an in­
AND THEY ARE FREEl 
ternational environmental center to help Eastern Europe
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & STANFORD CALL 273-1364 cope with its widespread 
pollution problems. 
Help! Drummer and Guitarist need 
Proposed by President Bush 

bassisVIead vocals BADLY for 
when he visited Hungary in
classicldanceable rock band. Scott 239-7666 July, the Regional 
Environmental Center is an 
I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN 
independent organization for 
GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­
training and information on
4005 
energy efficiency, public health 
DESPERATEII! and regional cooperation on I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX 
pressing environmental 
FOR THE MICH. GAME. 
problems.
CALL HEATHER 271-9260 
It is designed to provide data Molly J: 7 more days!II! on environmental issues, but not to get involved in political
Band seeks DRUMMER & 
decisions in Eastern European
GUITARIST. Folk rock, some 
blues, some reggae, some countries, said Lee Pasarew, di­surprises. Call DAVE at 2238 or rector of its project devel­CHRIS at 2193. 
opment team. Peter Hardi is the jpt-are you happy? can they hear executive director. you're heartbeat? "The opening of this center 
today is only the latest in a
Preppie­
remarkable series of events
Six months of our own love story I love you, that history will record as the Jenny revolution of 1989," William Reilly, administrator of the
BILL BLANFORD. Sorry we 
were late. Environmental Protection Agency, said in an opening speech.
VIV PADILLA. Sorry we were late. 
Eastern European countries JOHN FLETCHER. Sorry we are struggling with the results were late. 
~-----------------------------------­
of a chronic disregard for the environment that characterized
Moriarty's Meeting Friday at 4 at Senor Kelly's. 
the Communist regimes over­thrown last year. 
Antiquated factories central
AlOE NEEDED TO 
FT. WAYNE AREA 

to their economies still spew 
WEEKENDS. WILL 

tons of waste into the air and 
HELP PAY FOR GAS. 
water. Many forests are
Please call Danuta 234-591G-evenlngs or 
damaged, if not decimated, by 
John at 1-432-2516 

acid rain. 


Reilly said Wednesday that 


the center was a "way of providing legitimacy, in­volvement" for Eastern European environmentalists who had been previously suppressed. 
Half of the $10 million needed to start the center was donated by the United States. The European Community gave $2.5 million; Hungary $800,000; and the Netherlands, Austria and Canada $1.5 million total. 
BEFOBEYOU HAVE TO BURY YOURHEADIN BOOKS••• 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BLOWDRY
$ff95 
• No Appointment! 
• 7 Days a Weekl 
• FBEE Tanning ­Buy4-Get4 FBEE! 
NEXT TO VENTLJRE GRAPE RD.. MISHAWAKA 
277-7946 
HOL.f1S Da••v g.a 
Salurday 9·6 oSuoday ·· ; 

•Copynghl Ch•cago "an C.ni•nt; ; ·• ·""­
Friday, September 7, 1990
page 10 The Observer 

Two fashionably dressed Soviet women taste American pizzas at the first ever Pizza Hut in the USSR Wednesday. The restaurant in undergoing a week of trial and is to be officially opened next week. 
NASA will make next try at launch mid-Sept 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -NASA said Thursday it will replace the fuel pump that likely caused its latest failure to get astronauts back in space and try again in mid-September to launch Columbia. 
NASA Administrator Richard Truly said a new pump will be installed this weekend. If that seems to correct the problem, a fourth launch attempt will be made to launch the shuttle with an astronomical observatory early in the week of Sept. 17. 
"It's not a 100 percent guar­antee. But it's the one shot we have to get the Astro mission airborne" before Discovery's scheduled flight with the Ulysses satellite in October, Truly said. 
The unit is bolted in and can be replaced easily, said launch director Bob Sieck. Crews can­not enter the compartment until Friday because propel­lants remain aboard, prevent­ing a new pump from being in­stalled until Saturday. 
On Wednesday, NASA called off its third attempt to send Columbia on a mission to study some of the hottest objects in the universe with the $150 mil­lion Astro observatory. Thursday's early morning launch was scrubbed after hy­drogen flooded into the rear compartment. 
Officials continued filling Columbia's massive external tank to pinpoint the source and narrowed their search to the shuttle's three recirculation pumps. 
Each of the shuttle's three main engines has a pump. 
Officials were uncertain which one might be leaking or whether there were other holes. 

The pumps are part of the plumbing in the rear of the shuttle, where pipes range in diameter up to 17 inches. They are directly in front of the huge engines and are accessible through side doors. 
"We're not talking about a large leak. We're talking about an extremely small leak," said Forrest McCartney, director of Kennedy Space Center. "It's very elusive and very frustrat­ing." 
"It is a real booger to try to find and isolate," shuttle boss Robert Crippen said. 
If a new pump does not cor­rect Columbia's leaks or the launch is delayed too long, the mission will wait until after Discovery's flight with Ulysses, a satellite being sent on a five­year journey to explore the sun's polar regions. Discovery must lift off between Oct. 5 to Oct. 23 to take advantage of the proper planet alignment. 
"Ulysses is our first priority and we will not compromise that," said William Lenoir, head of NASA's space. flight program. 
Columbia's seven astronauts left for their training base in Houston at dawn. 
The mood at the space center was one of disappointment mixed with relief. 

"My first reaction was frus­tration," said program scientist Ed Weiler. "But my next thought was, 'My God, I'm glad they stopped, some of my friends are aboard.' " 



Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Five T.V.s 
*Basketball Shoot 
*Two Dart Boards 
*Pizzas From Scratch 
*DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 
*Conveniently LocatedJust Off Campus 
Located in University Lanes-1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL 
-----·-·-··························-J 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 7, 1990 page 11 
~Ihe ~Obsen!er­

P.o. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Editor ............•.......... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ....••••.Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor .............•. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .•..••..•.•• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ................•.... Greg Guffey Production Manager ••••.••••••.•Lisa Eaton Accent Editor........•..•••••• Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ...•Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ...........•....•..••.... Eric Bailey OTS Director .......•....••....•.. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .•...... Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Lasting friendships start with Best Buddies program 
By Cecelia Burger 
Mary is a friend of mine. 
There are many things I can tell you about her. For instance, she is a black female in her early thirties. She lives and works in the community. She likes movies and music. She likes to get books to read from the library. And she is especially fond of Pizza Hut pizza, Kentucky Fried Chicken and strawberry ice cream. Mary is friendly but quiet when you first meet her. When she warms up, however, her p·ersonality makes her impossible to resist. Obviously, Mary is a very special person to those who know her. But there is something about Mary which a description of her would be incomplete without; Mary is severely retarded and handicapped. 
Mary and I were paired together through Best Buddies, a program sponsored by the Kennedy Foundation which works through Logan Center. Upon seeing her for the first time, it was apparent that she is disabled. After getting to know her, it was quite enlightening (and surprising) to realize that she is also very able. This occurred the moment I stopped looking at the handicap and began to look at the person beyond the handicap. Some would say that Mary is special, and I agree wholeheartedly. But Mary is not special in my eyes because she mentally retarded or handicapped, but because of the feeling of friendship and caring which has grown betweun us. 
Our relationship has been one of fairly rapid development. In the beginning when I would go to see Mary, I would have to initiate all of the conversation. 
DOONESBURY 

other visits. Obviously, she was getting to know me pretty well. 
After that, I wanted to get around the problem of her viewing all my actions as favors to her, (she thanked me for everything, not realizing that I wanted to see her and do things with her). I also wanted her to start caHing me if she wanted to see me. I found that the best way to let her know these things was just to come out and say them. It was amazing how well that worked. I was extremely aware of the rare honesty and openness that was so prominent in our developing relationship. 
After that "stage," Mary became even more interactive, asking me things, remembering things we had conversed about on previous visits and asking me about them (i.e. "How was your test?"), asking what I wanted to do, wanting to share with me (secrets as well as food), and calling me if I didn't call when I said I would. 
Mary's presence in my life has had an immense impact on my views of mental retardation, the handicapped, and even the basic meaning of the worri "friendship." At first, I d~d not know what to expect, and I was a little apprehensive about working with Mary; I had never had much contact with the Sometimes it was like a police interrogation. I had trouble getting responses, and I didn't know if I was talking "above her level of understanding," or perhaps she just found me boring. I feared that a normal pattern of authoritarian figure and dependant was quickly forming. I decided to stop asking so many questions. 
When Mary and I would go to the movies or some other place, we would ride in the car, listen to music and just enjoy one another. I asked one or two questions and then paused for a time, waiting for a response. Little by little, Mary became more comfortable with me and I with her. She stopped being so uncomfortable about asking me for help or telling me she couldn't do some things because of her handicap. I, in turn, felt more at ease with her handicap and asking about her abilities like the distance she could walk, if she could go up stairs, or if she took the bus to work by herself. I had been telling her some things about myself each visit. Then one day, about the fifth visit, Mary got into the car and, to my astonishment, began the conversation. Not only did she begin, she talked a good five minutes straight! She answered all the questions that I had asked her consistently on our mentally retarded. However, my relationship with Mary has dissolved many of the fears I had. 
My views of challenges, and of people in general, have also been influenced. Mary faces challenges and difficulties in daily life and survival. So much of what is automatic for me presents problems for her. She really has accomplished a tremendous amount. She has worked hard and deserves dignity and respect like anyone else. Instead, she lives in a world where many look down on her and patronize her, focusing on what she can't do rather than what she ran. 
I have also learned about the value of people. So many things about Mary are innate in the human condition. She feels both pain and pleasure, satisfaction and dissatisfaction, approval and disgust. She has ideas and opinions. She laughs and cries and gets angry. She experiences fear and doubt, but she also has her own little successes just like everyone else. Most importantly, she loves and accepts, and desires love and acceptance. 
Mary is mentally retarded. She is also handicapped. She doesn't fit into what most of society may classify as normal. She has limits. But beyond all the labels and stereotypes is a learning. loving, breathing individual who has as much human value as anyone does, and she wants very much what other non-handicapped people want out of their lives. Her intelligence and abilities are limited in some respects, but that is part of Mary; they are only two factors that shape her as an individual. 
Part of friendship is accepting the limits of your friends and cherishing the parts which are truly beautiful and valuable. Yes, Mary is my friend, she is special, and she has taught me the true meaning of friendship. 
I think the Friendship Program is an excellent idea which benefits both participants. The mentally retarded person gets a chance to be socialized, integrated, and experience some normalization of activities with non­handicapped people. The non­handicapped person gets the chance to work with a mentally retarded person and develop a relationship, realizing that such people are not really different in the aspects of human value which really matter. 
Cecelia Burger is a senior psychology and anthropology major and the project coordinator of the Best Buddies Program. 

Is campus parking driving you crazy? The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues.lf you feel the parking situation at Notre Dame could be imtJroved, tell us why and how. Write down your thoughts and submit them to Viewpoint, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I REPOI<T !IJ&U-, ITtu4S NO,IT'5lii<C IN THe 80UNO TO HAP­TH&N&XT MORNING. Pe.N500N&R. CIJUN71<Y OV&R. 
OR LATER. ... NfAR FINLANP. 
\
\ \ ----­

'Lite is like an onion-you peel off one layer at a time, and sometimes you weep.' 
Carl Sandburg 

-----~--~-----------------~;~~, _~-_----------~-----------­
----------~~-------~ ---......... 
' 
A Listener's Guide 


MUSIC Doctor Bop and the Headliners, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45 p.m. 
COMEDY 
Tim Settimi, Theodore's, 8 p.m. 
ON CAMPUS 
Open House, LaFortune Student Center, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Grad Night, Alumni Senior Club, 5 -9 p.m. 
ND/SMC Luau, Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's College, 8:30 -11 p.m. 
MUSIC The Balance, Bridget McGuire's, 10 p.m. E-Z Wright & the N's and Outs, Center 
Street Blues Cafe, 9:45p.m. 
XYZ Affair, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
South Bend Wind Quintet, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall. Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. Twlla Paris, Gospel Music, Morris Civic Auditorium, 7 p.m. 


NOTRE DAME Friday "Crimes and Misdemeanors," Annenberg 
Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "Harlem Nights," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
Saturday "Crimes and Misdemeanors," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "Hard to Kill," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "My Blue Heaven," 5, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Taking Care of Business," 5:20, 7:30 & 9:40 
p.m. "Duck Tales," 1 & 3 p.m. "Delta Force II," 5, 7:15 & 9:25 p.m. "Fiatliners," 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Ghost," 7:20 & 9:50 p.m. "The Lemon Sisters," 5:40 , 7:40 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Mo Better Blues," 7:15 & 10 p.m. "Jungle Book," 1:30 & 3:15p.m. "Wild at Heart," 5, 7:30 & 9:55p.m. "Exorcist Ill," 7 & 9:30 p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "Witches," 5, 7 & 9 p.m. "Darkman," 5:30, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Arachnophobia," 5, 7 & 9:15p.m. 
100 CENTER ""Young Guns II" 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Gremlins II," 7 & 9:15 p.m. 
CAROL DOMINGUEZ 
accent writer 
B 
y day they are Michiana's Classic 
Rock n' Roll station, 
by night they are 
simply Michiana's Rock n' Roll. 
The last three letters in WAOR stand for Adult Oriented Rock, but the station attracts its listeners from diverse age groups. The latest statistics show that music lovers from 12 to 54 are loyally tuned to 95.3 
FM. 
Tom Reed, a part-time disc jockey for the station, says that this loyal audience catapulted the station into the number one ratings spot for local radio stations in the spring of 1990. This is the first time in WAOR's 
ANGEL FARAH 
accent writer 
I 
n this day and age people are looking for variety in their lis­tening experience. Along with a desire to please, popular demand and competitive forces are two factors that drive Mishawaka's ZIP 104 radio station to fulfill these expectations of its listeners. 
Disk Jockey Steve O'Brien, 
who is the current music direc­
tor, believes that it is important 
to "keep in touch with what is 
going on in the listener's mind." 
O'Brien says ZIP 104 relies on 
the basic format of CHR 
(Contemporary Hit Radio) to 
satisfy its "selective audience," 
which is concentrated between 
the 18 to 34 age group, or as 
O'Brien puts it, "the post-baby­
boomers." 
ZIP 104 's song list would be 
best described as a Top 40 
conglomeration, attracting the 
teenager, young adult, and the 
average married couple under 
36. 
Contest give-aways center 
around the radio's main prod­
uct-music. One such contest 13 year history that they have topped the charts. 

Reed believes a wide variety of music equals success. "We try to go from real classics, late 1960s and early 1970s, to the more recent rock. But even our current stuff has to fit the rock and roll style," he says. 
Special promotions also cater to the different audiences. The older crowd, primarily day listeners, hear OJ Billy Dee's "Rock and Soul Cafe" in the lunch hour. Reed says that caller requests during this weekday program "range from Motown to traditional rock." 
Contests geared toward the younger crowd promote new artists by offering free COs to certain callers. Occasionally, a bar that advertises on WAOR will donate tickets to 


UNNY 
101. 
FM 
give-away is.tbe free music weekend, during which time COs, cassettes, and stereos are given away. Another popular prize give-away is the Club Card Promo, which gives those listeners possessing a Club Card a chance to win prizes valued at $250 if their number is called over the radio. 
Although promos and con­tests are common among most radio stations, O'Brien stresses that there "is a difference" be­tween ZIP 104 and other radio stations. In order to attract more listeners and retain pre­sent ones, O'Brien says "It is important to build a better product." ZIP 104 accomplishes this task through a "consistent product," says O'Brien, who compares the station's success to that of a Me Donalds. "When you get a cheeseburger at Me Donalds, you know it will be the events for the station to gi 
away. 

"Block Party Weekends" new station program that three songs in a row by the same artists. According to Reed, this has significantly "boosted the reputation of station." 
In an attempt to -.;uJmu.Iuiul.l more personally with all of their listeners, WAOR fre­quently takes the station on cation to community events 
grand openings of uu"u''"'"''"''~~ 
The popular, full time DJs 
broadcast live from these 
tions. 

By combining great rock roll with a unique personal touch, WAOR has apparently found a good formula for cess. 
same every time." That is ZIP 104 operates. Their ers know what to expect. 
O'Brien says that there to be "a lot of hype" about ranking of radio stations. It not the aim of ZIP 104 to get .every listener out there, but rather to focus on the its selective audience. 
Some of f1e ways ZIP 104 complishes the task of in touch with its audience is through surveys and live broadcasts. 
O'Brien describes the obje tive of this radio station as "serving, entertaining, and i forming its listeners." 
One advantage of this servi is advertising at an affordab rate. "Radio can reach a tho sand people cheaper that an other form of media," says O'Brien. That advantage is p of what ZIP 104 is all about. 

gage 13 

South Bend's Radio Stations 
WZZP 

studying at the 'brare. From 6­ELIZABETH VIDA Sunny 101.5 also showcases 9 p.m., it's "Cruisin' America" accent writer four special programs. Every with Cousin Brucie, and at 9 weekday there's the popular until 12 a.m., "Live from the 
A 
lthough South Bend "Lunchtime Gold" with Jack Re­Sixties" with the Real Don Steel. 

has two top 40 ichert. From 12-1 p.m. classic "Live from the Sixties" usually radio stations and rock and great oldies are sent highlights one particular year one hard rock out over the airwaves. For five in the decade and then plays all station, sometimes minutes during that hour, usu­the great songs of that 
the need arises for a variety of ally 12:20-12:25, Reichert ltests year-and not just the major music: something you can listen his audience's knowledge of hits. He doesn't play "Born to to while studying or relaxing rock trivia. In "Name that be Wild" and "Light My Fire" without getting sick of repiti­Lunchtime Gold", he plays the every hour like other sixties tion. first few seconds or notes of an rock programs tend to do. 
Sunny 101.5 fulfils that need oldies song and the right caller Obscure songs and novelty by providing a mixture of (#12, for example) with the songs are also given their fair songs. In the words of Doug correct answer wins a prize. share of the program. Don Steel 
Hawkes, program director for "The show is a lot of fun. Jack also tries to make the listener 
Sunny 101.5, the music is a is a hometown boy, so he has a feel as if they're back in time, 
·.
golden mixture of both\the best great knowledge of the with facts and trivia from the of the old and the new. In more city,"commented Hawkes. "The particular year. technical radio lingo, it's pro­show has a lot of audience "We try to have a whole gramming is adult contempo­participation, and Jack loves 
bunch of little things going on rary, with a large bulk of the requests. He really tries to at the same time, instead of one 
audience between the ages of thoroughly research all his rare big promotion," Hawkes com­
25 and 39. Yet this is no Barry requests." mented. "Actually," he contin­Manilow or Neil Diamond On Saturday evening from 7 ued, "our ratings have been marathon station, nor is an air to 11 p.m. there's "Super Gold" pretty good of late. We like wave playing heavy metal or with Mike Tanner. Broadcast having a lot of audience partic­rap. Sunny 101.5's format, in­live from the West Coast, it ipation and we're glad that stead, ranges from the Beatles presents a national phone··in we've developed a great audi­to Heart to Billy Joel to Mariah request program. Sunday ence. And we're, of course, very 
Carey to Elton John. evening there are a couple of happy to be in the hometown of 
Along with its regular music, programs to listen to while University of Notre Dame." 

JOHN FISCHER 
accent writer 
U 
93 is no longer a Top 40 station. 
Before the 
fans of Mark 

Durocher, Nicky 93, and the like ru. 'h to change their dials to another station that plays the hot hits of today, it must be made clear that U93 has not changed its format, simply the title of the format. 
"Top 40" has become passe in radio circles; the correct name is contemporary hit radio, or CHR, according to Jack Swart, the Radio Manager of WNDU 93. 
The station is currently enjoy­ing a run as the top-rated radio station in the overall area as well as in several key demo­graphic groups. Arbitron, the ratings system U93 subscribes to, rates them number one in the 18-49 age group, with a 
17.7 share of the audience, and also number one in the 18-34 group with a 19.5 share. 
These numbers are based on the average percentage of lis­teners tuned in to U93 during the hours of 6 a.m. to midnight, seven days a week. Swart says there are a number of rea­sons the station is so successful. 
First among these is the i.ype of music the station plays. The playlist is selected by the pro­gram and music directors, who are influenced by requests from listeners and from sales in local record stores. The biggest hits are placed on the playlist in heavy rotation for a period of 12 to 13 weeks, at which time their rotation is diminished. A song is taken off the playlist anytime from one to one and a half years after its first ap­pearance. 
Because of th~ various tastes of its listeners, the station plays various styles of pop, including soul, hard rock, and rap, if it has crossover appeal. 
The popularity of certain disc jockeys also contributes to the 
station's success. According to U93's overall strategy, the more high profile, energetic DJs are featured during the morning and afternoon driving time. The morning show, headed by Durocher, also boasts a stable of popular characters in a comic format. 
Special programming on weekends includes Rick Dees' Weekly Top 40 on Saturday mornings, and America's Top 40 on Sunday mornings, as well as. Sunday evening's Hitline, a syndicated call-in show featur­ing various artists. 
Perhaps the main factor that leaves U93 fans glued to their stereos, however, is the exten­sive call-in giveaway program the station utilizes. Both inde­pendently and in conjunction wlith sponsors, U93 gives away South Bend Sox tickets, concert tickets, and restaurant gift cer­tificates, as well as larger prizes such as trips, stereo sys­tems, and merchants' giveaway packages. Recent promotions included the $10,000 Key Song and the Endless Summer fea­tures. 
WNDU is affiliated with the University and expresses this by following university policy on such things as the advertising it accepts for airplay. Swart says the station wishes to "reflect the same basic message as that of the University." The station promotes itself mostly through advertising on TV's Channel16, and through billboards in the area. 
As to the competition pro­vided them by similar stations such as ZIP 104, Swart replies that U93 was the first station of its format in this area, and that gives it an advantage over the others. He states that U93's flow of air talent is stronger and that they are in touch with the community better than any of their competition. 
With the air of one in com­mand of the situation, he says simply, "We just keep beating them." 
---~­
page 14 The Observe. Friday, September 7, 1990 
r 
U Need 2 Michigan GAs NEED: 2 Michigan GAs or 1stud 
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !IIIII I Need 2 Miami GAs. DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ How about a trade? 
HeyII We still need Michigan Top Dollar Paid 
Class 
GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT Call Bryan at 2266 tickets. x4189 Molly 
Big Bucks 

CALL KEVIN X1589 284-4350 Name Your Price 
continued from page 16 
DESPERATEIIJ!I!! I have stud. and G.A. tickets to all Wealthy Uncle 
HELP! I NEED TWO TIX FOR I want to buy 2 Stanford GAs. I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! home games Call Cory, x2718. Call X 1244
GREAT DEAL! MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR If any of these phrases catches 
THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ I need 10, that's right 10
6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs -your eye, please call 
CALLGUYATX1750 I am looking to trade Miami tix (student or GA's) I need Michigan tickets 
other offers welcome Andrew @ 1563
4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If Every ticket helps. Family coming 2 student x2630 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME interested, call to see game. 2GA BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Hugh at 233-6740. Call Bryan at 2266 Call Jill 289-8915 Need 1 Michigan stud. 
Please call Peter x1802 see CLASS I page 9
CALL 273-1364 
Have 2 USC -need 2 Miami GA Also any home game $$$$$$ Terri x4837 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX........... 
WAY BAD 1111 233-7440. PAUL. 
WANTED One set of season s. Jdent tickets . Will pay for tickets plus $100.00 to you. Call Clint at 289-4914. 
NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings 
HELP!!! !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN GA'S! WILL PAY BIG$ CALL JOY X4856 
Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x2110 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket to Michigan. Call Matt at x1089. 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES. CALL CHRIS X1067 
$$$$$$$$$ NO Alum needs 4 Stanford GAs. Will pay$$$! Call Jim Kirker collect 203-889-3738 $$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE!! NEED 1 OR 2 GA FOR B-DAY GIFT-PENN ST. MEG #3850 

"!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!1!1!!!!1!!!!11!!!1!!!!!1!!!!1 I'm willing to trade ANY TWO senior stud.tickets for just ONE miami stud.ticket or I'll pay cash. Call 288-4077 between 8&10:30pm 
Mich. StudTix needed. You need big cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. Urgent! 
HELP!! DE$PERATELY NEED MICH. STUD'S & GA'S. PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-9338 

I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 
NEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX 
FOR MICH JOHN x1384 
Need 2 Purdue GA's. 
x3566 
$ $ $ 
NEED 2 stud. tix for MICH. game ­
Dan 289-1015 
Need a MIAMI ticket? I need 
MICHIGAN. Lets swap! x2601 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALl. BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Looking for two G.A. tickets for the Purdue v. N.D. game please call Greg at #1594 
WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX 1 MIAMI STUD TIC Stephanie @ 4322 
MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS 
WANTED! II DENVER ALYM

.. NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT 
C'ESTBOM.
(303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, 
STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR 

Russell Athletic Cardigans always translate into agreat fashion statement. And if you identify this 
PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 
MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­

famous face and the two others from our newspaper campaign, that could 
3982. 

translate into a$1,000 scholarship for next semester from Russell Athletic.* 
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS 

Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 
GA's or STUDS CALL DAN@ X1795 *Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

\.­



--~-------·----------~---------· ~ ----·-------~-~ -~ 
Friday, September 7, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Replacing the 'old Lie' with a new lie .._ 
Father Robert Griffin 
COME JOIN THE FUN! 

ODAY! AFORTUNE TUDENT CENTER 
PEN HOUSE 1am-4pm 
Be entertained by TIM SETTIMI. Participate in FUN FLICKS: Totally interactive video. Make your own movie or music video for free ~~ith this mobile movie studio. 
Enjoy the magic of KEVIN WILSON. Have a caricature made by DAMIAN SHINER. Pick up unique give-away it~~ms. Hear WVFI. 
Learn about student organizations housed in LaFortune. Enjoy free samples of Soho Soda and Haagen Dazs at the HUDDLE. Get free samples of shampoo and conditioner at the HAIRSTLYIST. 
The COUNTRY HARVESTER will have frE~e samples and door prizes. THE COPY SHOP will give away 10 gift certificates for 50 copies. The GORCH GAME ROOM will provide free pool all day and free video 
games from 12noon to lpm. SOCIETY BANK will have refreshments. 

Shortly before being killed in action in 1918, the English war hero Wilfred Owen finished an anti-war poem which was as truthful as a poem can be: "If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood/Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs/Obscene as cancer.../My friend, you would not tell with such high zestffo children ar­dent for some desperate glory/fhe old lie: Dulce et decorum est/Pre patria mori." 
The "old Lie" began with Homer, writing in the Illiad: "A glorious death is his/Who for his country falls. "Homer prob­ably didn't believe it was a lie, or he wouldn't have written it. Hemingway was so contemptu­ous of the "old Lie" that he tried to destroy the myth: "They wrote in the old days that it is sweet and fitting to die for one's country. But in modern war there is nothing sweet nor fitting in your dying. You will die like a dog for no good rea­son." 
Has Hemingway replaced one "old Lie" with another lie when he says, "You will die like a dog for no good reason"? Are you willing to believe that all the 
G.l. Joes who fell in battle on their way to liberating Hitler's death camps died in vain? What if the poet Yeats, who wrote "The Second Coming," turns out to be prophetic, as though he had foresight about the events now unfolding in the Persion Gulf. "Surely the Second Coming is a Hand/ ... somewhere in sands of the deserVA shape with lion body traordinary collection of talent, of human knowledge, that has ever been gathered together at the White House-with the pos­sible exception of when Thomas Jefferson dined alone." 
Nevertheless, O'Connor be­comes the Supreme Court jus­tice because that's the way the cookie must crumble in this age of women's lib. Jefferson, the genius, is left to mediate on Ecclesiastes: "The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all." 
A university committed to coeducation has to put its money where its mouth is in making the appointments that give minorities their place in the sun; frankly, the appoint­ments tend to be a breath of fresh air. It would be churlish for the goats in the talent pool to be a jealous of the sheep gathered at the right hand of the Father Almight. The Miltons, bucking for promotion, have no choice but to remain mute, glorious, and untenured; and the Cromwells, hoping to make heads roll as academic deans, stay guiltless of their colleagues' blood. 
Are there jobs in the groves of academe-like that of dragon-slayer or head football coach-that you must be a member of an inner circle-like the knights of the Round Table-to apply for? Indubitably. If the time came when men and women were equally eligible to serve as king or queen for a day, we could celebrate the "Year of Being Human," so we could all feel good about ourselves as people not conscious of each other as members of a minority group in need of stroking. I'll be joining a minority group of my own very soon: as a senior citizen I'll hear Time's winged chariot hurrying near. As a priest, I'm the member of a minority group that's considered spoiled. The truth is that today priests must stay on the defensive to keep their self-respect. 
I'm so happy to celebrate the "Year of Woman." I hope the time will not be taken up with pope-bashing. Women, I'm willing to agree, have a right to control their own bodies. That 
Has Hemingway replaced one "old Lie" with another lie when he says, "You will die like a dog for no good reason." 
doesn't mean they have a right to abort babies taking up space in their wombs like a house guest, for those innocents didn't invite themselves to life's feast. Is it sexist of me to say this? I'm ready and willing to be sensitive to any issue the women want me to be sensitive to, as long as it's "dulce et decorum est,' and not a lie. It's not only cowgirls who get the blues; when the bell tolls, it tolls for all of us. 
Letters to a Lonely God 
and the head of a man/A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun,/Is moving its slow thighs/while all about iVReel shadows of the indignant desert birds.!fhe darkness drops again; but now I know!fhat twenty centuries of stony sleep/Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cra­dle/And what rough beast, its hour come round at lasVSlouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" 
If the scenario in the Middle­East is being written for Armageddon, should lads "ardent for some desperate glory" retire to a neutral corner, while the battles are being fought for the soul of mankind? Maybe there's a mid­dle ground between the "old Lie" that says it's sweet and proper to die for the father­land, and Hemingway's cyni­cism, "You will die like a dog for no reason." Christianity tells us that the greatest love one can possess is the act of laying down his live for his friend. Arlington Cemetery would be a national embar­rassment if we conclud that all the great sacrificies of the war dead were made "for no good reason." We should be able to agree among ourselves that war is hell without replacing "the old Lie" with Hemingway's half-truth. 


At Notre Dame, celebreating "Year of Women," we should be able to spend time dispelling the myth that men are superior without replacing it with an~ other myth. Eliot's Becket told us that the last temptation is the greatest treason: "to do the right deed for the wrong reason." We shouldn't be tempted to think that Notre Dame owes the ladies the "Year ofWomen", because "every year so far has been the year of men". Even in the real world, it isn't true to say that white males always have their back­sides in a tub of butter. The real truth is that in this genera­tion of emerging minorities, men are taking turns with the women in being the underdogs. 
How could it be otherwise? If the President decides that the politics of liberation mandate him to appoint a woman to the Supreme Court, Sandra Day O'Connor's stand-in will be nominated to fill the vacancy, even if Thomas Jefferson is waiting in the wings. Sandra Day O'Connor's stand-in may be an inspiried choice, gifted in doing her job well, and everyone will applaud the President's choice. Jefferson may be de­serving of President Kennedy's high praise at a dinner for the American Nobel Prize winners: "I think this is the most ex-

~----~--~-~~ -----------·--~------~ 
Friday, September 7, 1990page 16 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
( NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Balloon for rent. Custom messages. Signs & Banners for your organization. 272-77701 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
1. 
Large Group Meeting When? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm) Where? 427 Stanford 

2. 
Welcome Picnic 


When? Sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) Main Circle@ 2:30pm Where? Potawatomi Park Food & Rides 

ALL ARE WELCOME Questions? Call Sean@ x1910 
GRADUATE STUDENTS II FACULTY II STAFF!! Grad-Faculty-Staff Social This Friday, September 7 
5:00 pm to 9:00 pm Alumni-Senior Club 

Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books corner of NO ave. and Howard 233-2342 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
"-L_o_s_Tl_FOu_N_o___.l 
FOUND: Watch near Library early Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to !D. 
LOST: BLUE ND FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG AT MICHIANA AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 234-4961. MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU HAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE CALL ME. 
LOST: 3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW ANYTHING!!!!!!! 
X4090 OR X4049 

LOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. PLEASE CALL 234-9648. 
DID YOU FIND A SET OF KEYS 
WHILE WAITING FOR SOPH: FOOTBALL TIX? CALLJASON AT 1397. 
Found: A set of keys, containing GM and room keys, behind Flanner Hall9/5. Call1749to claim. 
LOST-green Navy seabag. Left behind bookstore 8\26. Contains clothes,etc. Please call Bart X3285. 
LOST-Green Navy seabag. Left behind the bookstore on 8\26. Contains clothes,etc. Please call Bart x3285 
FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIX! PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE DELl IN LAFORTUNE TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET. 
LOST: BOX OF BOOKS WITH MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 20$ REWARD FOR RETURN. CALL AIMEE X3720. 
Lost: brown, plastic glasses. 
Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 
Wanted 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK APTS. 273-9406. 
WANTED-TlX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687 
Patties is now hiring part-time 
help.Kitchen,cashier,ice 
cream.Flexible hours.We can 
adjust our schedule to yours.Call 
255-5525. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS!!I!II!! 
2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket 
needed. 
PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 
NEED 1 STUD. TICKET FOR 
PURDUEIII CALL KEN X-1078 
·cABLE T.V." 
• 
SALES REPS WANTED 

• 31MMEDIATE OPENINGS 

• 
GREAT PT. TIME HOURS 


• $400-$600 WEEKLY 
·cAREER OPPORTUNITY 
CALL FOR INTERVIEW 
BETWEEN 10-12 NOON. MATI 
FRIENDSHUH 237-0691 
EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3­
MONTHOLD. 
TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5. 
OUR HOME 
(BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER 
MONTH. CALL 259-6006. 
Need used psych 
books:personality & cognition 
#2894 
Badminton Partner Needed 
Call Kathv x3232
I FORRENT 
3 ROOM APTs.• 2 PEOPLE PER 
APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES 
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­
1014. 
719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 BEDROOM. 112 MILE FROM CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 RHONDA. 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME 
WALK TO ND 6838889 
OR2876389 
FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION 
NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS 
DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 
NOTRE DAME PHD STUDENT AT TURTLE CREEK E. LOOKS FOR A ROOMATE TO SHARE A 2­BEDR. APT. CALL JAMES 273­1627. 
For Sale 
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
19" COLOR TV, TWO 
SEMESTERS $110, ONE 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 
SEMESTERS $110, ONE 
SEMESTER $80. 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­
5959. 
2 FRIDGES 4 SALE $40.00 EACH 259-3268 
BIANCHI12SPEED 19" bike, lightweight, like new, was $350, now $260 or best offer. 258-0752. 
ZENITH PC--5 1/4 & 31/2 FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON FX-85 PRINTER. $1 ,000 OR BEST OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S 
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE 
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­
1364 
COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE 
CALL 273-1364 
FOR SALE: 2 OCTOGAN SOLID MAPLE END TABLES WITH STORAGE SPACE-$30 EA. OR $50 FOR BOTH; EXERCYCLE $40; ROLLAWAY BED, $40. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 

ENGINEERING CALCULATORS! 1 yr. old HP-28S,$150, or HP­41CX,$125, with original box. Both include all manuals. Very powerful! machinesll Call289-8020. STUD. TIX ALSOII WILL HAGGLE. 
Crib W/Matr, Drsng Tbl, $80 277-7406 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192. 
HELP!!!! Parents' first and last chance to see an ND football game. Desperately need 2 GA's and one student ticket for MICHIGAN. 
please call AMY (A.) 272-8954 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BETH NEEDS TICKETSIIIII 
Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Air Force. 
Call Beth at 288-0597 
Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­1934, Bill. 
Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEALTHY uncle 287-3472 Scotty 
TICKETS NEEDEDII II 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket 
for Air Force 273-9469 Diane 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need student tickets for Penn .state, Miami, and Michigan. J&Jill pay outrageous prices. 
Gall Dan x1126. 
""""$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need $$$?Sell 
your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICEII! #3501 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088 
Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's for 4 AIR FORCE GA's. Call x1363. 
PLEASE HELP ME !!Ill Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
Please sell me your tickets!!!! 
Call Cathy at 273-9624. 
YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! LETS DEAL! Ron x3504 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI GAME. Call Christine x4380 
NEED 2 GA FOR PURDUE, STANFORD, AF, MIAMI.CALL DAVEX1407 
Need 1 student ticket for Mich. and 3 for Miami $$$$$$ Call Dave 1862 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TICKETSIIII GAORSTUD. CHRIS 273-9355 $$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS $$$$$$JULIE X2569 
Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade Penn State or Air Force. Also will to pay big $. Call Jim at x1723 
Help! I NEED 2-4 PURDUE TICKETS!WILL PAY BUCKS!! (GA's) call #349011 
MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDEDII I!II 
Mom, Dad, and bro. have never been to an NO game. 
2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET will help keep them from watching it on t.v. 
272-8954 Amy Razz 

MICHIGAN still has maid service. Let us curse them. Need mucho stud. tixl x1160 
Helplll Looking for Michigan tickets (GAs and Student) Please call John or Regina 258-0809 $$$ 
Please help me recruit little brother. I need Penn St GA & Stud tix. Call John C.@ x1622 
Need 2 GA for Mich. and 4 for A.F. Call Kevin 273-1906 
TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's 
Call Beth at 288-0597 or Art at 277-9203 $$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WE NEED MICH AND MIAMI STUDENT AND GA TICKETS CALL ALLISON OR ANNE,2732 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
MICH TICKETS NEEDED 2STUD, 1GA PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975 
SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468 
Need 2 Miami Stud TIX Will Pay Big Bucks x 1416 Brett 
WANTED: 
1AIR FORCE G.A. 
2 MIAMI G.A.'S 
CALL MIKE x1581 

WILL BEAT ANY PRICEIIII!!!!I 
need tickets for (ANY OR ALL): 2 Mich GA's , 1 A. F. stud and 1 or 2 Mich stud. 
NAME YOUR PRICE!! IIIII X1187 
HELP!! HELP!! HELP!! HELPII Need 3 GA's for 3 Beautiful WOMEN for Air Force Football Game. Call Joe at X1817. 
PLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEA SE 1 to 3 PENN ST stud tix needed ­Susan x3141 
TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM 513-677-8106. 
You can save a marriage, sell me your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) 
CALL MATI X 2984 

I NEED TO TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA's for 2 MIAMI GA's. Call SHANNON at x2171. 
I NEED MICH. GA's OR STUD TIX Name your terms! 277-0253 
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game!! WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
NEED 1 MICH. Tix AARON x2384 x2352 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX HAVE CASH #2936 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Mike needs 1 stud. ticket for AF and up to 5 Tix for STANFORD or PURDUE! #3191 
NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. CALLX4045 
HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's WILL TRADE FOR 2 TENN OR 2 MIAMI GA's x3652 Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Mark x1576. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Paul x1755. 
NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD 
TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ 
CALL BARB X4419 
NEED STUD. TIX : ALL HOME 
GAMES.$$ WILL BEAT ANY 
OFFER $$ I CALL JIM 
273-1377. 

NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. 
CALL MARY 273-1377 
I need 3 Mich. tix (Stud or GA). 
Don x1788. 

I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX 
CALL MIKE AT X4022 
NEED 1 MICH TICKET -PURDY 
PLSX2172 

WANTED: Have TWO MICHIGAN GA's to trade for TWO MIAMI GA's. Will also negotiate. 
ALSO NEEDED: Five AIR FORCE GA's and 1 ST. TOM X3697 
NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & 
MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO 
TRADE. LUKE X1213 
I NEED TICKETS 
I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER 
WATCH THE GAMES ON TV 
WILL BUY WHOLE SETS 
CALL X 1167 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Wanted 
I alA..TICKETS Studanta or General Admlsalon In any section 
Call Chudl collect 
(716) 26!Hl490 8 am-5:30pm and anytime Sat. & Sun. 
Need 4 Michigan GA's; will take 
single tix or pairs; call at 2786 
Needed desparately, 4 Stanford 
GA's and 3 Stud tix. Also need 
Miami Tix. Big Bucks!!! Call Jon 
Paul at x4115. 
H E L P!llllllll!lll!ll!lll My CL'~ fror" Arizona is coming to the Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for any ticket. Call Mary at x1292. 
Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at 273-9367. 
Need 1 Michigan GA 
call Pat 289-5542 
NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD GA'S! CALL DAN @ X1179 
Need 1 Student ticket for Michigan game Call Mike at 4048 
I desperately need a Michigan 
ticket. My roommate is going to 
Rome and this will be her last 
football game for a whole year. 
$$$$$ Call Lisa or Kara at X2761 
HELP! This means YOU. I need two GA's for Miami game. Will pay $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or hotel reservations for any game. Amy 1289. 
I need 4 Michigan GA's. Will 
pay big cash. x4189 Andi 
I need MICH stud tix. Will pay 
$$$. Call Bill x1583 
SON OF CORPORATE CEO 
NEEDS 

1-2 STUD TIX-MIAMI OR MICH 
#4501. 

##################### WANTED: MANY PENN STATE AND 2 AIRFORCE STUD TIX -­PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 ##################### 
NEED 2 Mlr.l-l TIVIII '>77 OAI::') 
ROYAL ORDER: 
Hear yel Hear ye! 
The Queen o' the Irish 
Requires 4 Miami Tickets 
For Her Royal Court 
All Willing to Answer 
Her Highness' Plea 
Please Contact Treven X450.3 
ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs I NEED MICH STUDENT TIX 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 
CALL DAN 234-8608 
NEED MICH GA'S 
WILL PAY TOP $ 
CALL PAT 234-8608 

THIS IS NO JOKE. DAD NEEDS 2 MIAMI STUD OR GA TIX LIKE HE NEEDS TO BREATHE-CALL MIKE X1750 TO MAKE THAT DOWN PAYMENT ON YOUR NEW CAR. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED AS MANY MICHIGAN GA'S AS I CAN GET. WILL PAY ALOT. WILL TAKE SNGLS,DBLS,TRPLS, ETC. CALL DAN X3419 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 
STANFORD GAME TIX 

for use by my nubile young sister 
who's coming to town. 
Call Alison at 4011 
HAVE 2 MICH. GI'.'S. 

WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. 
CALL MARK 212-595-0275. 
I need 2 Student Michigan 
tickets!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE Call Anne 
at 288 0597 
Need 2 Miami GA's 
Call Matt x3630 
Okay, any student tickets for 

Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, 
please call Paige at x2980. This is 
serious. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 MICH. TIX! G.A'S OR STUD. CALL x3771 or x3791 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
H E L P!!! 

NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY 
WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS 
PAYING TOP$$$$$ 
CALL JEFF@277-3998 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI, 
PURDUE,MICHIGAN, 

STANFORD, OR PENN STATE. 
PLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN GA'S CALL TOM X1441 
HEY YOU!! 
PLEASE HELP!! 

I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN GAME. 
CALLX2819 

I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
Parents will take back tuition 
if I don't come through!!!!!!!! 
Call Mike X3506 
WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 

WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 
COLL:t-312-745-7210. 

NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ 
WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 
MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$ 
DEBBIE x2982 
I need 2 Michigan GA's for 

my Mom + Dad's 34th wedding 
anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 
277-4838 

WILL PAY CASH for 1 student or 
GA Air Force tick X1187 
HELP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. 

tickets for hometown buddies 
driving all the way up from 
S.C. Call Caroline at x3838. 

DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO 
Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! 

Please call Kathy 277-9406 or 
Mike 273-9471. 
NEED 1 or 2 Miami GA or 
student tix.Name your price.. 
call x3285 

My poor friends never went to 
an Irish game. Please sell me 
your Mich. student tix! Joni 
1839 

see CLASS I page 14 
------~--_,~---------------------------­

Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer 
page 17 

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Dlvtslon 
w L A:t <m L10 Streak Boston 76 60 .559 z-7-3 Lost3 Toronto 7t 66 .5t8 5t12 5-5 Wont Detroit 66 72 .478 tt 6-4 Lost2 Milwaukee 64 72 .47t t2 z-6-4 Wont Cleveland 6t 76 .445 t5 tl2 2-8 Wont Baltimore 60 75 .444 t5t/2 t-9 LastS New York 57 78 .422 t8 t/2 z-5-5 Wont 
West Division 
w L A:t <m LtO Streak Oakland 86 50 .632 7-3 Won4 Chicago 79 56 .585 6 tl2 6-4 Won3 
Texas 70 67 .5tt t6 t/2 4-6 Won2 Calitornia 68 68 .500 te z-7·3 Lost t Seattle 68 69 .496 tBt/2 6-4 Won3 Kansas City 66 7t .482 20 t/2 2-8 Lost4 Minnesota 63 75 .457 24 z-6·4 Lost t 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eeatotvlsion 
w L A:t <m LtO Streak Pittsburgh at 56 .59t 7-3 Won6 New York 77 59 .566 31/2 z-6-4 Lost 4 Montreal 7t 65 .522 9 tl2 5-5 Lost t Chicago 64 72 .47t t6 t/2 z-4-6 Wont Philadelphia 63 73 .463 t7 t/2 4-6 Lost t St. Louis 62 75 .453 t9 4-6 Wont 
West Division w L A:t (JI LtO Streak Cincinnati 78 58 .574 z-5-5 Lost t 
Los Angeles 7t 65 .522 7 z-5-5 Lost3 TRANSACTIONS U.S. OPEN 
San Francisco 70 67 .5tt Bt/2 4-6 Wont San Diego 62 73 .459 t5 t/2 z-3-7 Wont Doubles
BASEBALL Results Thursday of the $6.35 million U.S. Open Houston 62 74 .456 t6 z-7-3 Lost 1 
Ouerterflnals
National League tennis tournament held at the USTA National Atlanta 56 80 .412 22 z-8-2 Won6 
Sabastian LeBlanc and Greg Rusedski, Canada, 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Activated Bryn Smith, Tennis Center (seedlngs In parentheses): z·denotes first game was a wm 
del. Robert Janecek (2), and Daniel Nestor, 
pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list Men 
Canada, 7-5, 6-1.
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTs-Activated Trevor SinglesAMERICAN LEAGUE 
Martin Renstroem (1 ), and Mikael Tillstrom, 
Wilson, pitcher, from the t5-day disabled list Quarterfinals
Wednesday's Games Sweden. def. Michael Joyce. Los Angeles. and
Boris Becker (2), West Germany, del. Aaron New York 2, California t 
Vincent Spadea, Boca Raton, Fla., 6-4, 6-2.
BASKETBALL Krickstein (9). Grosse Pointe, Mich., 3-6, 6-3, 6·2, Oakland 10, Boston 0 National Basketball Association 6-3. Vimal Patel, Owensboro, Ky., and Mike Sell, 
Toronto 7, Detroit 3 CLEVELAND CAVALIERs-Matched the Miami Andre Agassi (4), Las Vegas, del. Andrei Moorestown, N.J.. def. Tamer Ahmed El Sawy, Chicago 3, Kansas City 0 Heat's offer sheet to John Williams, forward, on a Cherkasov, Soviet Union, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3. Egypt, and Kevin Ullyett, South Africa, default. Milwaukee 7, Minnesota 4 seven·year contract. Doubles Jon Leach, Laguna Beach, Calif., and David Witt 
Texas 3, Cleveland 2 DENVER NUGGET&-Fired Doug Moe, coach. SemHinals Jacksonville Beach, Fla., del. Adam Peterson, Seattle 9, Baltimore 5 
Pieter Aldrich and Dania Visser, South Africa (2), Orange, Calif., and Chris Woodruff, Knoxville, Thursday's Games Tenn., 6-1, 6·3. 
FOOTBALL del. Brian Garrow, Los Altos Hills, Calif, and Sven Late Game Not Included 
National Football League Salumaa, Huntington N.Y., 4·6, 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 7-6 Cleveland 6, Detroit 0, 5 innings, rain eM>
CINCINNATI BENGAL&-Piaced Reggie Rembert, (7-2), 6-2. 
Texas 12, Kansas City 1 wide receiver, on injured reserve. Waived Richard Paul Annacone, East Hampton, N.Y., and David Singles California at New York, (n) Third Round 
Carey, cornerback. Re-signed Mike Barber, wide Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn., del. Patrick Galbraith, 
Only games scheduled receiver. Activated Lewis Billups, cornerback. Tacoma, Wash., and Kelly Jones, San Diego, 7-6 Louise Stacey, Australia, del. Miriam Oremans Friday's Games 
DALLAS COWBOY&-Piaced Kenn<!th Gant, (7-3), 7-6 (7-2), 6-7 (2-7), 7-6 (8-6). (11 ), Netherlands. 6-0 7-6 (7-5). Oakland (Moore t2-t2) at New York (Hawkins 5·11), 7:30p.m. Noelle Van Lottum (5), France, def. Nathalie
cornerback, on injured reserve. Re-signed Derrick California (Grahe t ·2) at Baltimore (McDonald 5-4), 7:35 p.m. Women Baudone (12), Italy, 3·6, 6-4,6-1.
Shepard, wide receiver. Seattle (Swan 2-2) at Boston (Boddicker 14-8), 7:35p.m. Doubles Barbara Rittner (9), West Germany, del. Silvia 
DETROIT LIONs-Agreed to terms with Eric Chicago (M.Perez 12-12) at Toronto (T.Stottlemyre t2-14), 7:35p.m. Querterflnals Farina (7), Italy, 6-1, 6-4. 
Williams, defensive lineman. Cleveland (Black 10·9) at Minnesota (Anderson 6-t?), 8:05p.m. Shi-Ting Wang (t6), Taipei, del. Karina 
HOUSTON OILER&-Piaced Dee Tl1omas, Larisa Savchenko and Natalia Zvereva (3), Detrort (Morris t 1-16) at Milwaukee (Higuera 9-6), 8:35p.m. Soviet Union, def. Natalia Medvedeva and Leila Habsudova (2), Czechoslovakia, 3·6, 7-5, 6-3.
defensive back, on injured reserve. He-signed Don Kansas City (Gordon 10·9) at Texas (Hough 10-10), 8:35p.m. Sofie Albinus (13), Key Biscayne, Fla., del. Kristin
McPherson, quarterback. Meskhi (t4), Soviet Union, 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3. Saturday's Games Godridge (3), Australia, 4-6, 6-4, 7-5. Cleveland at Minnesota, noon Canadian Football League Santor Men Luanne Spadea (10), Boca Raton, Fla., def. Seattle at Boston, 1 :05 p.m. CALGARY STAMPDER&-Activated Albert Singles Patricia Miller, Uruguay, 6-1,6-2. Chicago at Toronto. t :35 p.m. 
Thomas, defensive back; Mike Palurnbo, offensive Ouel1erlinals Magdalena Maleeva (t ), Bulgaria, def. Lisa Oakland at New York, 7:30p.m. lineman; Rick Worman. quarterback; and Luigi Hank Pfister (1), Bakersfield, Calif., def. llie Pugliese, Boca Raton, Fla., 6-0, 6-t. California at Baltimore, 7:35p.m. Caiazzo, defensive lineman. Placed Harald Nastase, Romania, 6-t, 6-3. Kirrily Sharpe (4), Australia, del. Paloma 
Detroit at Milwaukee. 8:35p.m. Collantes, Spain, 6·1, 6-2.
Hasselbach, defensive line, and Moustafa Ali, Peter Fleming, New York, def. Cliff Richey, San Kansas City at Texas. 8:35p.m. Angelo, Texas, 6-3, 6-4. Doubles
defensive back, on the practice rostE<r. Released Sunday's Games Cuaw18rftnals
Brian Hutchings, offensive lineman. Tom Gullickson (2), Palm Coast, Fla., def. Dick Seattle at Boston. 1 :05 p.m. EDMONTON ESKIMO&-Activated Steve Taylor, Stockton, Dallas, defauij. Nathalie Baudone (2), and Silvia Farina, Italy, Oakland at New York, t :30 p.m. quarterback, and Chris Johnstone, running back. Alex Mayer (3), Los Altos, Calif., def Paul del. Michelle Jackson, Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., Camornia at Banimore. 1:35 p.m. Placed Warren Jones, quarterback, and Reggie McNamee, Australia, 6-t, 6-4. and Keri Phebus, Larchmont. N.Y., 6-4, 6-2. Chicago at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. 
Taylor, running back, on the reserve list Doubles Erika deLone (5), Lincoln, Mass.. and Lisa Cleveland at Minnesota, 2:15p.m. HAMIL TON TIGER-CAT&-Piaced Carl Parker. First Round Raymond, Wayne. Pa.. def. Patricia Miller, Detrort at Milwaukee, 2:35 p.m. wide receiver, on the practice roster. Mark Edmondson (2), Australia, and Sherwood Uruguay, and Louise Stacey, Australia, 7-6 (7-3), Kansas City at Texas. 3:05p.m. TORONTO ARGONAUTs-Placed John Cangemi, Stewart, The Woodlands, Texas, del. Bob Hewitt 6-3. quarterback, on the practice roster. and Frew McMillan, South Africa, 6-4, 6-4. Kristin Godridge and Kirrily Sharpe (1 ) , Austalia. NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Tom Gullikson, Palm Coast, Fla., and Dick del. Svetiana Komieva and Elena Makarova (7), 
Wednesday's Games HOCKEY Stockton (t ), Dallas, def. Cliff Drysdale, Durham, Soviet Union, 6-t, 6-3. Pittsburgh 1, New York 0, 1st game 
National Hockey League N.C., and Roger Taylor, Britain, 6-t, 6-t. Petra Kucova, Czechoslovakia and Shi· Ting Pittsburgh 3, New York 1, 2nd game 
BOSTON BRUIN&-Signed Wes Walz, center, to a Jaime Filial, Aspen, Colo., and Peter Fleming, Wang (6), Taipei, del. Meredith Geiger. Oklahoma Philadelphia 4, Chicago 1 
four-year contract New York, del. Wojtek Fibak, Poland, and Paul City, and Pam Nelson, Ross, Calif., 6·3, 6-4. Montreal 6, St. Louis 2 · 
CHICAGO BLACKHAWK&-Named Vladislav McNamee (3), Australia, 6-2, 6·3. San Diego 5, Houston 2 
Tretiak goaltending instructor and scout llie Nastase, Romania, and John Newcombe, Mixed Doubles 
Cincinnati 5, San Francisco 3 LOS ANGELES KING&-Traded Ctlris Australia, del. Bob Lutz, San Clemente, Calif., and Championship Atlanta 6, Los Angeles 2 
Duncanson, left wing, to the Minnesota North Stars Alex Mayer (4), Los Altos, Calif., 1-6, 6-4, 7-5. Elizabeth Smylie and Todd Woodbndge (8), Thursday's Games for Daniel Berthiaume, goaltender. Austrlai, del. Natalia Zvereva, Soviet Union, and Late Games Not Included MONTREAL CANADIEN&-Signed Jean-Jacques Senior Women Jim Pugh (t ), Palos Verdes. Calif .. 6-4, 6-2. St. Louis 4, Montreal 2 Daigneault, defenseman, and Charles Poulin, Doubles 
Featured matches Friday at the $6.35 million U.S. San Francisco 6, Cincinnati 2 center. SemHinals Open tennis tournament: Chicago 5, Philadelphia 2 NEW JERSEY DEVIL&-Acquired Laurie Wendy Turnbull (t ), Australia, and Virginia Wade, 
Steffi Graf (t ). West Germany, vs. Arantxa 
Pittsburgh 7. New York 1 Boschman, center, from the Winnipeg Jets for Bob Britain, del. Olga Morozova, Soviet Union, and Sanchez Vicario (6), Spain. 
Houston at San Diego, (n) Brooke, forward. Betty Stove, Netherlands, 6-4, 6·4. 
Pieter Aldrich and Danie Visser (2), South Africa, 
Atlanta at Los Angeles. (n) NEW YORK RANGER&-Signed Chris Cichocki, Rosie Casals (2), Sausalito, Calif., and Billy Jean vs. Paul Annacone, East Hampton, N.Y.. and David 
Friday's Games right wing. King, New York, del. Maria Bueno, Brazil, and 
Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn. St. Louis (Tewksbury 9-5) at Chicago (G.Maddux 12·12), 2:20p.m. Sharon Walsh-Pete, Albuquerque, N.M.. 6-1, 6-2. 
Gabriela Sabatini (5). Argentina, vs. Mary Joe New York (Cone 11 -7) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 4-6), 7:35 p.m. International Hockey League 
Fernandez (8), Miami. Montreal (Boyd 8-5) at Pittsburgh (Smiley 8-7), 7:35p.m. ALBANY CHOPPERs-Signed Gordon Paddock llo,'s Atlanta (Leibrandt 7-8) at San Diego (Whitson 12-7), 10:05 p.m. and Vern Smith, defensemen. Singles Cincinnati (Rijo t1-6) at Los Angeles (Neidlinger 3-1), 10:35 p.m. KANSAS CITY BLADE&-Signed a working Third Round Houston (Darwin 10-2) at San Francisco (Burkett 11-6), 10:35 p.m. agreement with the Edmonton Oilers. Andrea Gaudenzi (15), Italy, del. Ivan Baron (1), AP FOOTBALL TOP 25 Saturday's Games Plantation. Fla.. 7-5, 6·2. St. Louis at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. SOCCER Marcus Ondruska (2), South Africa, def. Clinton Houston at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. Major Soccer League Marsh (16), South Africa, 6-2, 4-6, 7-5. How the top 25 teams in the Associated Press' New York at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.m. DALLAS SIDEKICK&-Signed Tatu, forward. Daniel Nestor (t2), Canada, del. Dinu Pescarlu college football poll fared Thursday: Montreal at Pittsburgh, 7:05 p.m. (5), Romania, 6-t, 6·2. 
t. Miami, Fla. (0-0) did not play. Next: at No. t6 Cincinnati at Los Angeles. t 0:05 p.m. COLLEGE Mikael Tillstrom (t3), Sweden, del. Oliver Brigham Young, Saturday. Atlanta at San Diego, 1 0:05 p.m. NORTHEAST CONFERENCE-Announced the Fernandez (3), Mexico, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3. 2. Notre Dame (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. No.6 Sunday's Games resignation of Ray Cella, assistant commissioner Karim Alami (9), Morocco, del. Robert Janecek. Michigan, Sept. t5. New York at Philadelphia, 1:35 p.m. for public relations. in order to become the director Canada, 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. 3. Auburn (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. Fullerton Montreal at Pittsburgh, 1:35 p.m. of communications for the Atlantic t 0 Conference. David Witt, Jacksonville Beach, Fla., def. Andrei State, Saturday. Houston at San Francisco. 3:35 p.m. ALFRED-Named Mark McFadden, women's Medvedev (tt ), Soviet Union, 6-4, 6-4. (tie) Florida State (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. East Cincinnati at Los Angeles, 4:05p.m. volleyball coach; and Bill Speca, men's golf coach. Chris Cocotos, West Palm Beach, Fla., del. Carolina, Saturday. Atlanta at San Diego, 4:05 p.m. BROWN-Named Jeffrey Ward assistant athletic Tamer Ahmed El Sawy, Egypt, 6 -7 (3·7), 6-t, 7-5. 5. Michigan (0-0) did not play. Next: at No.2 Notre 
St. Louis at Chicago, 8:05p.m. director for facilrties and support services. Thomas Enqvist, Sweden, def. Alistair Hunt, New Dame, Sept. t5. JACKSONVILLE-Named Doug Corbatt pitching Zealand, 6-4, 6-1. 6. Colorado (1-0-t) beat Stanford 21· coach and Terry Springer men's golf coach. t7. Next: at Illinois, Sept. 15. 
7. Southern Cal (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 2t Penn State, Sept. 15.
LEAGUE LEADERS 8. Tennessee (1-0·1) did not play. Next: at Mississippi State, Saturday. 
9. Clemson (t·O) did not play. Next: at No. 15 
Virginia, Saturday. Based on 357 at Bats Beaed on 357 at Bats 10. Nebraska (1·0) did not play. Next: vs. Northam NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Illinois, Saturday. 
t1. Illinois (0-0) did not play. Next: at Arizona, 
G AB R H Pet. G AB R H Pet. Dykstra Phi 128 506 94 172 RHdsn Oak tt5 4t7 100 .329 Saturday.
.340 137 McGee StL 125 501 76 168 .335 Plmero Tex t29 500 63 161 .322 
12. Texas A&M (1·0) did not play. Next: vs. Magadan NY 119 59 .330 BrettKC 472 t5t Southwestern Louisiana, Sept. 15.
364 t20 123 74 .320 
Duncan Cin 13. Alabama (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Southern
107 378 60 tt9 .3t5 Trammell Det 13t 505 67 t60 .3t7 Murray LA 130 467 79 t47 .3t5 McGriff Tor 128 459 82 t43 .3t2 
Mississippi, Saturday. 
14. VIrginia (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. tO
Grace Chi t32 497 56 t54 .310 Harper Min t17 421 57 t3t .31t TGwynn SO 132 537 72 166 .309 Burks Bsn t26 482 77 t49 .309 
Clemson, Saturday. Dawson Chi 122 t36 .308 133 t59 15. Ar1<ansas (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. Tulsa.
442 55 DParker Mil 5t6 63 .308 
Bonds Pit 128 440 90 135 .307 Puckett Min t25 468 79 144 .308 Sept. 15. Wallach Mon t35 57 t59 Boggs Bsn 527 t62 t6. Brigham Young (Hl) did not play. Next: vs. No.
520 .306 t3t 79 .307 
1 Miami, Fla.. Saturday. t7. Pittsburgh (t -0) did not play. Next: vs. Boston
Home Runs College, Saturday.
Home Runs 
Fielder, Detroit, 44; JCanseco, Oakland. 35; McGwire, Oakland, 34; McGriff, Toronto, 32; Deer, Mitchell, San Francisco, 32; Sandberg, Chicago, 32; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 3t; Strawberry, New t8. Ohio State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Texas
Milwaukee, 26; Gruber, Toronto, 24; RHenderson, Oakland, 24; BJackson, Kansas Crty, 22. Tech, Saturday. 
York, 3t; Gant, Atlanta, 27; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 27; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 25; Daniels, Los 
Angeles, 23; Justice. Atlanta, 23; Saba, Cincinnati, 23. 
19. UCLA (O..Q) did not play. Next: vs. No. 22 
Oklahoma, Saturday. "-lns Balled In "-lns Batted In 
20. Washington (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. San 
MaWilliams, San Francisco, t05; JCarter, San Diego, 102; Bonds, Pittsburgh, t01; Bonilla. Reider, Detroit, 1t4; McGwire, Oakland, 94; JCanseco, Oakland, 89; Gruber, Toronto, 88; DParker, Jose State. Saturday. Pittsburgh, 101; Strawberry, New York, 91; Wallach, Montreal, 86; Mitchell, San Francisco, 84; Milwaukee, 85; Sierra, Texas, 85; Trammell, Detroit, 82; Maldonado. Cleveland, at. 
21. Penn State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Texas. HJohnson. New York, 83. 
Saturday. 
22. Michigan State (0-0) did not play. Next: at Pitching (tO Decisions) Pitching (tO Decisions) 
Syracuse, Sept. t5. Darwin, Houston, t0-2, .833; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 18-5, .783; Tudor, St. Louis, tt-4, .733; Cook, B. Jones, Chicago, 1t·1, .917; Welc~, Oakland, 23-5, .82t; Bolton, Boston, 8·2, .800; Williamson, 
23. Oklahoma (O..Q) did not play. Next: at No. 19 Philadelphia, 8-3, .727; RMartinez, Los Angeles, t6-6, .727; Gooden, New York, 15-6, .714; Harkey, Baltimore, 8·2, .800; Stieb, Toronto, t7-5, .773; Clemens, Boston, 20-6, .769; RRobinson, Milwaukee. g. 
UCLA, Saturday. Chicago, 12-6, .667; Robinson, San Francisco, 10-5, .667; Sampan, Montreal, 10·5, .667. 3, .750; CFinley, California, 17-6, .739 
24. 
Houston (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. UNLV, Saturday. 

25. 
West VIrginia (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. Maryland, Saturday. 



c.:a::oz..:e:....1.:...:8::.._________________________:T~h:.;:;e....;O::.;b::..:s:..:e:..:..rv:..:e:.:..r________________Friday, September 7, 1990 
Ismail 
continued from page 24 
performance in the Buffaloes' 31-31 tie against Tennessee couldn't have helped his chances. Hagan is an option quarterback in the mold of Tony Rice and, for that reason, he won't be able to impress the Heisman voters with his pass­ing marks. 
Junior Ty Detmer of Brigham Young, USC sophomore Todd Marinovich and Miami senior Craig Erickson are the best of a strong contingent of quarter­backs vying for the award. Detmer is the finest passer in the group, but Marinovich and Erickson both play for high­profile programs which could garner them a few extra votes. 
The 1990 Heisman field lacks a solid running back candidate of the Barry Sanders variety, but Houston senior Chuck Weatherspoon, Pittsburgh ju­nior Curvin Richards and Fresno State senior Aaron 
Craver and Alabama senior Siran Stacy will make strong bids for the award. Tennessee sophomore Chuck Webb, a top preseason candidate, is out for the season after tearing the an­terior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
Red Sox in flux over Clemens's shoulder injury 
BOSTON (AP) -Roger Clemens of the Boston Red Sox was reported "much more comfortable" Thursday as he underwent hospital tests for a painful right shoulder. 
Dr. Arthur Pappas, the Red Sox' team physician, said pain and swelling had "subsided significantly.'' 
"Those are encouraging signs and he's more comfortable, but that doesn't necessarily corre­late with what's happening in­
• • 
• 

side his shoulder," Pappas said.• 
Pappas, an orthopedic spe­cialist, said that while there are • "optimistic signs" he had to • wait until the results of tests • become known, probably on 
Friday. • 
Clemens, who has a 20-6 • record and leads the major leagues with a 1.98 earned run • average and 204 strikeouts, • underwent extensive tests at the University of Massachusetts • 
Medical Center. • Clemens took had X-rays and a Magnetic Resonance Imaging • 
procedure done. • 
Pappas virtually ruled out any • rotator cuff trouble and said Clemens problem is "more lim-• ited to two tendons in the front • of the shoulder." 
•

iF=====~• 
/ 

Poib ~¥Et~;~· .i 
HELP 
• 

The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking qualified Individuals to fill the following positions for its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER 
FTIPT SALES ASSOCIATES 
Experience with bettermen's and women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with experience. Please apply in person at: 
Polo/Bolph lA~ Faetoey St.>r• : 
:c:tw~~ :~:t 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Filming for the Lou Holtz Show will take place today from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. at WNDU Studios. Anyone in­terested in speaking with Coach Holtz and being in the studio audience should call SportsChannel's Chicago office prior to the filming at (708) 524-9444. The show will air Sunday on SportsChannel and again on WNDU Saturday, September 15 from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to any­one in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The en­try fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 
p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
Anyone interested in joining the men's and women's varsity track and field teams, there will be an im­portant meeting today at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 
Racquetball players of all skill levels who are interested in joining the Racquetball Club, call x2334 or x2333 and leave a message. 
Hall Athletic Commissioners -Please call the Non­Varsity Office immediately to give them your name, address and phone number. This will get you on the 1990-91 mailing list, enabling you to receive NVA info for your hall. Call 239­5100. 
The Sailing Club will be hosting a regatta this weekend with 15 schools from the Midwest at Diamond Lake Yacht Club in Michigan. Spectators are welcome; call Watts 
at x3657. 

Off-Campus soccer will have practice today at 4:30 
p.m. on Stepan Field. If you cannot attend, please call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
As aMarine Officer, you could be in charge ofa Mach 2+ F/A-18A, avertical take-<>ffHarrier or one ofourother jets orhelicopters. And you could do itbythe timeyou're 23. But it takes aspecial 
Hours for Rockne Memorial until Fall Break are: Swimming, Mon.-Fri. 7-9 a.m., noon-6 p.m. and 8-11 p.m., Sat. from 1-6 p.m. and from 7-11 p.m., and Sunday from 1­6 p.m. and 7:30-11 p.m. The Third Floor Weight Room is open Mo':l:~ri. 3-10:30 p.m. and Sat.-Sun. noon-9 p.m. All other facilities are open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-11 p.m. and Sat­Sun. 10 a.m. -11 p.m. Family hours are Sundays from 2-5 p.m. 
The Water Polo Club will have an introductory meeting at 6:30 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theater. All details concerning season activities will be covered at this meeting. 
No~re ~arne Martial Arts Institute will begin meetmg this week. The club offers instruction in both Tae Kwon Doe and Jiu Jitsu. Beginners classes meet Thursday from 7-9 p.m. and Sunday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. Returning advanced s~udents begin Friday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. All classes are m 219 Rockne. For more information, call Denis at 283-2090. 
The Notre Dame Men's Volleyball team is sponsoring a 2-on-2 Grass Classic on Saturday, Sept. 8th at 10 a.m. on South Quad. Entry fee is $6 per team and prizes will be awarded. If interested, contact Ann at 288-2195 or Tom at 283-3697. 
NO and SMC field hockey players -there will be a meeting on Sunday, Sept. 9th in room 315 Walsh Hall at 
7:30 p.m. for a new club that is forming. For more information, call Suzanne at x4174. 
The ND/SMC Equestrian club will hold its first meeting on Sunday, September 9, at 8 p.m. in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. New members welcome. For more information, call Karen at 283-1715 or Chris at 284-4401. 
a~hman orsophomore, askabout our under­graduate·officer commissioningprograms. Ifyou're a junior, checkoutourgraduate programs. Starting salaries are from $20,000 to $24,000. And .,~ 
commitmenton your part We ..---------------you can counton demand leaders at all levels. f'Y_O ~a ..J-'1.~..-going farther...faster. We teachyou to be one. Ifyou're 0 .1."~ ·ul.,~••• JWrelooking.liJrafewgoodmetL 

•i 
faster. 
• 
: 

Ifyou are seeking aunique, challenging job with the security ofknowing it is guaranteed upon graduation should you • 
~==Mi=ehipn==C=i=ty=,I=N==dJ· ·················f·····i··········;o~····· 
Friday, September 7, 1990 The Observer 
page 19 

Lou speak!:; out 
On football: "Football is an extension of life. Everything that you're going to face in life in the years to come is involved in football. You have some goals, you have some direction. You've got to develop your skills, your talent, your abilities. You've got to vtork exceptionally hard. It's also a game where !IOU need other people. Your future or your success depends on others. You can be a great receiver but if the quarterback doesn't get you the ball, you can't display your talents or abilities. And if you do all this, you still may not get the recognition you think you deserve. You win and they give it to somebody else. You don't get the promotion to the first team.' 
On winning and losing: "You have heartaches and you have disappointments. Things don't go well and you lose. You don't necessarily have a lot of friends. You have to hire pallbearers for your own funeral. And when you win, you have all kinds of people rejoicing and all of a sudden you find out that's not really what's important in life or in football." 
On the volume of mail hE! receives: "We spend half of our time opening mail about speaking requests. I am not a speaker. I'm a coach. I can't imagine going a1nywhere that the volume of mail I get would diminish. If I became a mailman, I wouldn't handle as much mail as I do now." 
On pressure: "I do not feel pressure to win · none. There's never been anyone from the administration who has said that we have to win this game. I like to win and I'm sure they're disappointed when we don't win. Pressure is going to take a big exam when you haven't studied. I do feel pressure to run the program and have our players reflect lhe standards that Notre Dame values and cherishes. We just do the best we can and let things take care of themselves." 
On criticism and accusations: "It seems that the more success you have, the more situations like that arise. It hurts you with some of the things you can't control. You have to look at yourself and say, 'Did I do the right thing?' If the answer is no, you just have to go on. If the answer is yes, you have to ask what you could do to improve that." 
On real pressure: "When you're 35 and the bank turned down your request to re-mortgage the farm, you've got a crop in the field, you've got six hungry youngsters and your wife ran off with the drummer, you'll understand that there's got to be a resilience to you, some determination, something to get you through tough times." 
On life: "Be a participant in life. Do not be a spectator. You do something to experience what it's like. You can do it once and experience it a thousand times. Instead of staying on the sofa watching TV, go do aomething." 
Holtz 
continued from page 24 
said. "I just came and did what the mandate of the university was -which was not to win na­tional championships, not to finish first in the country, not to go to a bowl game. It was to make football a good ·educa­
tional experience and not com­promise the values and the morals and the principals that Notre Dame cherishes. I never came and said 'I want to win this."' 
But Holtz did win. 
After a 5-6 opening season, Holtz led the 1987 team to an 8-4 mark and an appearance in the Cotton Bowl. He followed that with a perfect 12-0 mark in 1988 and the national cham­pionship. The encore was a 12­1 record and a second-place rankin!! in 1989. 

"The only thing I can honestly ported that Holtz had ex­say in my heart is tbat we've pressed interest in the vacant always had the right intentions Atlanta Falcons coaching job, a and done the right things. I can position eventually filled by honestly say if I died tomorrow Jerry Glanville. The reports or if Notre Dame fired me to­linking Holtz to other jobs are morrow or if somebody shot about as common as the prob­me tomorrow that at all times lems and criticism that seems and in all ways I tried to uphold to follow the Notre Dame team. the mandate that was given to "I cannot see myself coaching 
The Observer/Steve Moskop 
me when they hired me." anywhere else or going any­He also discovered that suc­• • • where else," Holtz said . 
cess comes with a price at the Early Thursday morning Holtz is the first to admit most-visible and most-scruti­many members of the sopho­that coaching has changed him nized program in the country. more class had waited all night over the years, that he is not 
••• in line for football tickets. the same coach who took over This was October of 1989, or Holtz showed up with dough­at William & Mary in 1969. 
maybe October of 1988, or even nuts and left a parting shot at "Coaching when you first September of 1988. It was one the crowd. start is the big games., the ex­of three pre-game tunnel inci­"I'll be here when you gradu­citement, the TV shows, the dents at Notre Dame Stadium ate whether you like it or not," book," he said. "You're younger in Holtz's tenure. he said. and you think, 'It would be 
It was before the much-hyped Holtz's future at Notre Dame great to someday have some­Notre Dame-USC game and a has been the subject of great body express my name in the scuffie broke out in the tunnel debate since the Irish won the same sentence with Bear as both teams exited the field national championship in 1988. Bryant and Woody Hayes. after warmups. No one may The National recently re­ever know who really started the altercation, but it is the lin­gering image of a dramatic 28­24 Irish victory. 
"People said we lacked disci­pline and that we were a bunch of thugs," Holtz said. "You look at it and you say, 'I can't change what they said.' You look at it and see if there is any truth to it. There was no truth that we had thugs on our team. Sometimes, they make bad de­cisions, but they're great peo­ple." 
The tunnel incidents were just a small part of the off-field problems Holtz has faced in the past two years. There have been suspensions of key play­ers, allegations of widespread steroid use among Irish play­ers, accusations of recruiting violations and even charges of telephone misuse. 
At times. it seems like Holtz 
wants to lash out at the critics. 
At other times. it seems like he 
realizes the problems come 
with the territory. 
"We were 5-6 and we had no problems," Holtz said. "When we were 8-4, we had a few problems. In today's age, what­ever can be done on Notre Dame. . .oh, I don't know. You'd just have to ask those people. I have no idea why things happen, how they hap­pen. 


If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better LSAT
i 

preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We11 help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the •')tew" 15AT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE-lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor 
ESTANlEY R KAPlAN 

£Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Cltances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
"But then, it's really the asso­ciation with people. It's not be­ing their friend or their buddy. It's setting the standard and then showing them how they can reach it. Yet, if you don't make a firm commitment to being the best you can be, you're doing them a disservice. If we're going to play football, 


1 THE VARSITY SHOP 1
~-----------------------· ••• 
I I Dateline-Notre Dame, the year 2000, the 21st century. If Holtz continues at his cur­rent pace, it will also be a time
i $2 OFF i
when people compare him to the great coaches --KnuteI Any Haircut I Rockne, Frank Leahy, Ara : (:regularly $8) : Parseghian. 
"I'll never be compared to I I those people for a couple of reasons, nor is it my goal,"
I Edison Rd at S.R. 23 277-0057 exo 9/30/90 &.I 
Holtz said. "People today real­
ize I'm just human. I'm jut an

~~
----------------~------average guy. I'm different
no than the next-door neighbor. 
"Ara, Leahy, Rockne, they were in a different mold. I don't have the ability to be classified as a great coach. I consider myself one of the luckiest coaches ever. I'm more con­cerned about what people think about me as a man and a per­son -hard-working, honest, considerate and caring. I think what you are as a man and a person is far more important than what you are as a coach. 
"It's the greatest job in the world, the greatest place in the world. I just can't believe a good old guy from East Liverpool, Ohio, would· end up at a place like this." 
Lou Holtz's Collegiate Coaching Record 
William & Mary William & Mary William & Mary North Carolina St. North Carolina St. North Carolina St. North Carolina St. Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Minnesota Minnesota Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
1969 1970 
1971 
1972 
1973 
1974 
1975 
1977 1978 
1979 
1980 1981 1982 
1983 
1984 1985 
1986 1987 1988 1989 
3-7 
5-7 
5-6 
8-3-1 9-3 
9-2-1 
7-4-1 
11-1 9-2-1 10-2 
7-5 
8-4 9-2-1 6-5 
4-7 
6-5 
5-6 
S.4. 
12-0* ~.......... 

* denotes National Championship season 
The Observer/Michael F. Muldoon 

let's play it to the best of our abilities." 
r--­
page 20 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Coast Conference finals, de­feating NCAA co-champion Virginia along the way. Junior forward Clint Carnell and ju­nior George Dunn are the cornerstones of Duke. 
Berticelli's positive frame of mind has already worn off onto this Notre Dame team. 
"It's a test," said junior goal­keeper Peter Gulli. "We plared well (in an exhibition) agamst Indiana, and that gave us con­fidence we could play with Top 20 teams." 
Senior co-captain Paul LaVigne thinks the Irish have become more focused. "The in­tensity level is key." he said. "What you do in practice is what you do in games, and we've had good intensity levels in practice." 
The road doesn't get any easier for the Irish after Friday's game with the Blue Devils, as Notre Dame will face another strong ACC team in North Carolina State on Sunday. 
The Wolfpack, ranked 17th in 
the nation by Soccer America, 
have two wins so far in the '90 
campaign. against the same 
Jacksonville and UNC­
Greensboro teams beaten by 
Duke. N.C. State's attack has 
proved dangerous this season, 
propelling the 'Pack to a com­
bined 11-1 score irt their two 
victories. 
N.C. State was 8-8-1 last sea­son, respectable considering the strength of the ACC, and re­turns eight starters off that team. Stars for the Wolfpack include All-ACC midfielder Dario Brose, as well as forward Henry Gutierrez, and keeper Dale Allred, who played in every single minute of competition last season. 
The Irish aren't looking past the Blue Devils at the Wolfpack, though. 
"N.C. State is equal, if not tougher than Duke, but we want to take one game at a time," Gulli said. "We'll think about State after Duke." 
Berticelli is confident but cau­tious about his team's chances. "We can be competitive," he said, "but they're experienced 
teams, and we're less experi­
enced, so it's very, very impor­
tant for us to play well as a 
unit. If we do, then we can give 
them a tough match." 
Road trips such as these are a key component in taking a team to the championship-caliber level, and if the enthusiasm the players show and the overtime period against Dayton are any indicators, the Irish could upset a ranked team in the very near future. 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
Nasty boys meet as 'Canes travel west to take on BYU 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Defensive tackle Russell Maryland has coined a label worthy of boxing promoter Don King for Saturday's game between football heavyweights Miami and Brigham Young. 
"Nasty from the East meets Nasty from the West," Miami's Maryland said with a chuckle. 
The top-ranked Hurricanes travel to Utah for their season opener bearing a tradition of verbal intimidation -.on-the­field taunting and off-the-field boasting. Brigham Young, though it is a Mormon school, has been accused in recent years of playing dirty. 
"They're religious and every­thing," Maryland said. "But I guess they're human, too. They're just like us in a sense." 
The 16th-ranked Cougars' opener last Saturday at Texas-El Paso did nothing to improve their image. A 30-10 victory was marred by a bench-clearing brawl in the third quarter and the ejection of star halfback Matt Bellini. 
"I don't expect that to happen with us," Miami coach Dennis Erickson said, "because we never do that kind of stuff." His comment drew laughter from reporters. 
In truth, Miami's reputation has improved since Erickson The Observer/Andrew McCloskey became coach last year. He has Mitch Kern and the Irish will face Duke and N.C. State this weekend. cracked down on taunting and has warned the Hurricanes to 
Saint Mary's volleyball starts season with win 
By CHRIS BACON tion to her four kills and 13 Saint Mary's Sports Editor digs. Despite their impressive vic­
The Saint Mary's volleyball tory Wednesday night, the team made its debut Belles realize that they face a Wednesday night, sweeping St. challenging season. Having Xavier College in straight sets, been promoted from the ranks 
15-13, 15-11, 15-9. of the NAIA division to the 
"St. Xavier is traditionally a NCAA division three, the strong opponent. This was a strength of their schedule has good first win for us. It gets been upgraded significantly. the season off to a positive "We realize we have a lot of start," says coach Sue Medley. work to do before we get to 
where we want to be. The 

Sophomore Karen Lorton led strength of our schedule is very the Belles with 22 kills, 15 digs tough this year. We're working and eight blocks. Senior co­with a lot of different line-ups captain Katy Killilea was sec­because of injuries. So we're ond in kills with ten, and led the not settled into any starting team in digs, with 16 and ser­line-up," Medley said. vice aces, with seven. Freshman However. the Belles have four Michelle Martino totalled up 37 returning starters, Killilea (45 assists for the Belles in addi-service aces, 131 kills. 232 digs, 
Eucharist Presiders of Sacred Heart Church this weekend: 
Saturday, September 8, 5:00 PM 
-Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C 
Sunday, September 9, 5:00 PM 
Mass for the Opening of the Academic Year -Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Sunday, September 9, 11 :45 AM -Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study ­
Join 
Us! 

Fellowshi 
September 10, 1990 
Time: 7pm 
Call Collect 784-2078 
steer clear of disparaging re­
marks about opponents. 

The combat fatigues that 
Miami players wore when they 
arrived at the Fiesta Bowl in 
1986 are all but forgotten. 

"It's taken a lot to kind of 
clear the image that we had," 
senior tackle Mike Sullivan 
said. "It's something that a lot 
of people got tired of here. 

"We'd be winning games and people would say, 'They're just a bunch of trash-talking what­evers.' We try to stay away from that stuff. and I think we've done a pretty good job of it." 
At BYU, the bad-boy image contrasts with school rules that prphimt students from using tobacco, alcohol or caffeine. Cougars coach La Veil Edwards said fights such as the one last Saturday happen once in a while; Bellini said he and his teammates are football players, not angels. 
Nasty East and Nasty West have met once before, in 1988. The Hurricanes won 41-17 and came away from the game shaking their heads about Brigham Young's four flagrant 15-yard penalties. 
"You had some late hits coming from their offensive linemen," Maryland recalled. 
"There were a lot of personal 
fouls and a few shoving matches after plays," Sullivan said. 
29 blocks), senior co-captain Michelle Sibilsky ( 167 kills, 48 assists. 34 service aces, 256 digs, 88 blocks), sophomore Amy Perkins ( 46 kills, 27 as­sists, 39 service aces, 232 digs. 18 blocks) and Lorton(217 kills, 48 service aces, 226 digs, 132 blocks, 96.6 service per­centage). 
Saint Mary's also has a strong bench. If the Belles per­form well and stay healthy, they should fare well in this new season. 
Saturday, the Belles travel to Kalamazoo to ocmpete in the Hornet Invitational. 
"Saturday is going to be a challenge for us. In the past it's been a good tournament. I'm looking for us to do well. But, we'll need a strong perfor­mance from everyone because of injuries." 
PUBLIC NOTICE 
LIQUIDATORS HAVE TAKEN OVER! 
r------------------------T 
STUDENTS 
PRESENT THIS COUPON FOR 
AN ADDITIONAL 10%OFF 1------------------------­

Dally 10 to ~ MASTER Lo-•n..,. 
~~~~ay GOLDBLATT's Acri~~~Eo 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 2500 Miracle Lane (McKinley St.) Mishawaka NOTHING HELD BACK 
--~l 
I 
~ 
I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer 
Agassi, Becker win at Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Sassy and flashy and psyched to the max, Andre Agassi put on a show of blast-away tennis to set up a fiery match against Boris Becker in the U.S. Open semifi­nals. 
Agassi, hungry for his first Grand Slam, chewed up Soviet Andrei Cherkasov 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 Thursday night and gave fur­ther proof that he isn't just the tennis world's loudest dresser. 
America's top player and the gazing at it in admiration be­
fore strutting back to the base­
line.
Football Ticket Sale Information 
Agassi then broke Cherkasov with an assault that had the So':iet sprinting frenetically
Freshmen: TODAY 
from side to side, desperately chasing balls and finally hitting them wide or into the net. Agassi finished the set with a service winner to take the game at love. 
It was more of the same in the second set and third, Cherkasov breaking Agassi a few times but Agassi coming right back with his relentless assault. 
"He has powerful ground­strokes. I think the best in the world," said Cherkasov, a 20­year-old born on the Fourth of July. 
Issue Hours: 9:00AM· 8:00PM 
Slosar 
continued from page 24 Bring application, student I.D. and 
Slosar; teamwork and mentally focusing on the game. 
remittance to Gate 10, JACC. 
"Everybody has the talent (in
One student may present 

college)," said Slosar. "You re­ally have to focus on the mental 
maximum 4 applications and I.D. cards. 
part of the game. It's not high 
The Observer school where you can rely on talent alone. Being smart and using your mind is what puts you above the rest." 
Jennifer Slosar certainly knows what it takes to become the best. She won four letters in volleyball and was a second­team all-state selection her se­
Har31_~!!qtrY ,~tQ!Jen 


TRAIL RIDES 
nior year at Mercy High School Over 500 acres of ~ 219-778-4625 
in Birmingham, Michigan. She meadows, ponds, OPEN All YEAR ROUND 
also excelled in basketball and woods. , 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE. IN 
golf, earning three and four let­
ters, respectively. 
11h Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
"I just have a love for athlet­ics," said Slosar. "I've played basketball all my life. Volleyball is still a new sport to me and I'm still learning. It's something different. It's a lot of fun, but a
KTOC 

lot of work, too. It's a lot different from basketball, espe­cially the conditioning." 
Jennifer's talent certainly 
leader of the pack of young portunity to charge the net .and sluggers on the tour, Agassi, kill the ball on the run. He 20, walloped deep shots relent­didn't show much finesse, but lessly with his oversized, neon after a year of pumping iron, green, power racket and kept his power is undeniable. Cherkasov on the defensive in It was never more so than at every set. the end of the first set and 
Cherkasov, who beat base­throughout the second. Agassi liner Michael Chang in the third took a 4-2 lead in the first set round, found that there's more with a forehand deep in the to Agassi than his funky green corner on game point that and black clothes, and more to whizzed by Cherkasov as if it his game than big ground­were a rocket. Agassi took par­strokes. Agassi took every op-ticular pleasure in that shot, 
Office of University Computing University of Notre Dame 

OUC and Spyglass, Inc. cordially invite you 
to a presentation of software tools for the 
analysis, visualization and management of 
scientific and engineering data on the 
Macintosh. 
Underwritten In part by Spyglass, Inc. Relreshmenls w/11 be served 

United Methodist Students!! 
JOIN US FOR WORSHIP AND ACTIVITIES! First United Methodist Church 
333 N. Main (So. Bend)-across from Burger King 
8:45AM Celebration Service in Sanctuary (45 min) 
9:30 AM Refreshments in Gathering Room 9:45AM "University Fellowship" in Education Wing 
11:00 AM Traditional Service in Sanctuary (1 hour) 
WE ARE HAPPY TO ARRANGE TRANSPORTATION If you need a ride, call 233-9463 Mon thru Fri 8 am-Spm 

AP 1-'noto Boris Becker will meet Andrei Agassi in the U.S. Open semifinals. 

runs in the family. Her father John Slosar played basketball at John Carroll University. 
"My Dad's been my biggest inspiration," Slosar said. "He doesn't really know volleyball, but he's always been my mental coach. He really understands." 
Slosar basically had her pick of the crop coming out of high school. She had scholarship of­fers for basketball but none of the schools appealed to her. Her decision came down to the University of Michigan (which also offered her a golf scholar­ship) and Notre Dame. 
"Michigan had a really good engineering program too, but nothing beats the tradition of Notre Dame. The community spirit is great here. My recruit­ing visit told me where I wanted to be." 
Ah yes, yet another loss for Michigan at the hands of the Irish. 
Slosar is making a good ad­justment to the college game. "The game moves much quicker at this level. T.eams like Stanford and Texas are strong teams. It's boom, boom, boom. The play out West is much 
I03 Computing Center Monday, Sept. 10 I 0:30am 
or 

I 03 Computing Center Monday, Sept. 10 2:00pm 
quicker than in the Midwest. I'm still getting used to it, but it doesn't come all at once." 
"Jennifer is making tremen­dous progress," said Lambert. "She's really coming into her own. Her defense is improved and her passing is better. She's starting to hit like we expected her to hit. When she's on like .< she was against Washington State (18 kills), we can just get the sideout and keep giving her the ball to score." 
Again, like most varsity ath­letes on this campus, Jennifer is never satisfied. 
"There's not one part of my game I don't need to work on. It's mostly a matter of being consistent. I love to hit, but even that needs work." 
Still, this looks like it could be the year for Jennifer Slosar. She played 22 games as a freshman and 62 as a sopho­more. She was second on the team last year with a 2.69 kill average (137 total kills). She had some of her best games against teams in the Top 25. She had 16 kills and four ser­vice aces against Illinois (ranked seventh this year), as well as 16 kills against Kentucky and 15 against Texas-Arlington. 
''I'm really excited about this year," Slosar said."We have a tough schedule, but in order to be the best you have to play the best. Everyone on the team feels that way." 
Unfortunately, Slosar won't be in action for the Irish this weekend. She has been plagued by shin splints in the last few years, but after an unusual amount of pain, a bone scan yesterday revealed a stress fracture in her right ankle. 
"That's not what she needed right now" Lambert said. "We don't know when she'll be back." 
Slosar on the other hand, has different ideas. 
"I'm being fitted for a brace. I won't play this weekend but I'm looking to play in the Big Four TournamenL{Sept. 14­15]." 
A great competitor isn't kept down. 

Women's soccer squad flies south for weekend 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team takes to the skies this weekend as it flies south for matchups against Top 20 opponents Duke and UNC­Greensboro. 
The Irish set off for sunny North Carolina at 8 a.m. Friday morning, in order that they may have ample time to gear up for a Saturday showdown with Duke at 2 p.m. and a Sunday meeting with Greensboro at 1 p.m. 
Does this sound simple? Fly down, win, fly home. Not quite. The Irish are in for two hard­fought games this weekend. Duke, which was ranked 20th in Division I in the most recent NCAA poll, recently trounced fifth-ranked William and Mary (at William and Mary), raising Duke's record on the young season to 2-0. In their first game, the Blue Devils handily dispatched Mercer 6-0 at Duke. 
"Duke is scary," noted Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "They have lots of firepower up front, and they are solid at ev­ery position. Mary Pat Rosenthal, the daughter of Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, is a tough full­back for Duke. We definitely have to be aware of her when we're taking corner kicks. 
"But of course, she is only one of many talented players. It's a difficult situation to go to their place, both because they are playing well now and we have a young team." 
Similarly, UNC-Greensboro, Petrucelli's alma mater, has been in the Top 20 of Division II each of the past three years. 
"Greensboro is a young and talented program," explained Petrucelli. "They are at a point where they have lots of juniors playing, while we have lots of freshmen playing. Again, they will be difficult to beat. The hardest part is that we have to play them the day after we play Duke." · 
Yet the Irish, who tied Wisconsin 1-1 at Wisconsin (no easy feat) in an exhibition game, are 1-0 on the regular season after a 5-1 victory over Northeast Missouri State last national championships on the Giolitto, who scored two ful for Saturday and possible have too many injuries." field we'll be playing on, and it goals in Notre Dame's season­for Sunday, will be temporarily "As far as the season is con­has many good memories for opener, is a junior midfielder, replaced by freshman Andrea cerned, we need to be encour­me. Also, I have a sister and but is a sophomore for pur­Sobajian. aged with the way we are play­friends at Greensboro. I hope poses of eligibility. "The injuries are starting to ing now. Things are starting to that we represent ourselves As a team, the Irish are stack up for us," lamented come together, especially where well." nursing several injuries right Notre Dame coach Petrucelli. the attack is concerned. Our de­
Petrucelli, who was a mid­now. Senior forward Mimi Suba "We've got several players out fense is solid the whole way;fielder on two national champi­suffered a muscle pull against with minor injuries. Also, hav­but a defense does not take as onship teams (1982 and 1983) Northeast Missouri, while ju­ing Mimi injured creates a situ­much time to develop as an at­while a student at UNC­nior sweeper Molly Lennon is ation where we will be young in tack. These are the type of Greensboro, knows a good deal on day-to-day status with a our experience as well as our games you must play to developabout winning. Aside from pulled quad muscle. Jennifer age. Now, we have almost no national competitiveness.spending six years as the assis­Kwiatkowski, a freshman experience. This is a tough sit­Playing ranked." 
tant men's soccer coach at Old sweeper (usually backed-up by uation for the other players. Thus, despite the injuries, Dominion (the post he occupied Molly Lennon), has tendinitis of But I certainly think that we youth and inexperience, the before moving to Notre Dame), the knee, a problem aggravated have people who can fill in and Irish remain confident as their he has coached the men's by extended running. Suba, that they are all capable of showdown with destiny draws Olympic Development Regional whose playing status is doubt-playing. Still, we can't afford to near. 
The Observer/Dave Short 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will fly south this weekend to face Duke and UNC-Greensboro in what will be a homecoming of sorts for head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
Team. The Regional team takes the best players of a certain age in a given region (in Petrucelli's case, the best 16­year-olds from Maine to Virginia) from their respective state teams, before turning them over to the United States National Team. 
"Duke may be rated higher than us, but we have a good chance to beat them," stated a determined Marianne Giolitto. ''I'm really excited about this trip; I can't wait to play. Right now I'm just thinking about Duke. After the game with Duke is over, then I'll think about Greensboro." 
¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥/4 

page 22 The Observer Friday, September 1, 1990 



play. 
"We are excited about the ~ opportunity to play two of the ~ better teams in the country," ~ continued coach Petrucelli. ~ "We';e r_ea!ly looking forward ~ to this tnp. ~ 
"One thing you must know, ~ though, and it is very important ~ -our attitude is not just that ~ we are making a trip. We are ~ 
going down there to win some ~ games. We are planning on iC winning two games. We are not ~ going down there to get "l" beaten." iC "I'm also looking forward to ~ returning to Greensboro," "l" 
weekend at Alumni Field. In i{ . i( short, Notre Dame is ready to ~You've come a long way' Allison~ 
added Petrucelli. "I won two -.lt.¥..¥.¥.¥.¥.¥.lt..¥..¥lt lit..¥..¥..¥.¥.¥.¥~ 
1&1 ~~~~;~ ::f-:':1:':·1:':;~::'~:';~:~;;;::~~:;;;; 
~CLUB 
FRIDAY LUNCH 12 pm-2 pm 

I 
Grad Social Hour 

~ 
5 pm~ 9 pm 

I I I 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
• 
~ 
....,.... 
• 
• 
~ ~ 

liJ9.1mmm r;,)Qci) ~Rr:flf!-..r[l~mO -iC ~ijJ U ~ l:::)lj L!.)IJJlji.Jjl.!J\.!.Ju tl ~ ~
We love you, ~ ~ 
M · ..,_,. 
om, Dad. and Ench ~ 
SATURDAY ARMED SERVICES NIGHT 
Join the DRAFT! 
.·------------T------------~ 
: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : I $899 SaveOver I 99¢ I
I $250 I I 
I For I I I p,;k any tWO Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sund~H~ :liHi I I two Garden Salads. plus your choice of I receive a second one of tilt I 
french Fries or Oman Rings and 2 1 · f 9l)' I
I 
M•ni-Sundaes. same <:tze or 
~~B~a-sNe~b_a~l~l_N_~~h~t-----~------------~L~-~~~~~---1--!~~--J 
Friday, September 7, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORD 

CAMPUS 

Campus 
4 p.m. Radiation Laboratory Semina~, "Dir~ct Ionization Effects in DNA: Study of Mechamsms Usmg EPRIENDOR Crystallography," Prof. William Nelson, Department of Physics, Georgia State University. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. Admission Free. Sponsored bY, Radiation Laboratory. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Baked Pollock Sesame Swedish Meatballs with Mushroom Sauce Vegetable Rice Casserole 
All RIG\-\\, \-\ERE. f>,t-.\0 HEXT Tltl\£., \...Efo.:·JE t-\~ 'S\\lff' 
___.___
fo,LOH't.. G.J\ II? 

ACROSS 33 Talked like a 59 0usted madman liberal Chinese 
1 Spotted horse 
official: 1989 5 Elec. units 62 Royal decree 
34 Hair-raising 
37 No, to Burns 

9 Catamaran 63 Ending for right 
38"-gobragtl" 
64 Basso Pinza 13 Dugout 39Arrested 65 Makes lace 14 Golfer Wayne 

40 English 66 Norms: Abbr. saint-historian 67 Poet Walter­15 Seaweed Mare

41 Asian holiday

derivative 42 Regales
16Man who replaced 59 43 Untamed DOWN Across 44Saudi­
1 Indian rule 19 Queue 46 Redactors 2 Japanese 20 Inscribed pillar 48 She outwrestled sashes21 Study of China Thor 

3Smell-(be

23 Chinese so U.S. physicist suspicious)dynasty Alfred­4 Score minus 
25 Questionable 51 Great panda, one 26 Less 
China's gift to 
5 Bullring sound the U.S. 

experienced 
6-andhaws
55 Macaw2£ Islamic 7 Year in reign of 

chieftains 58Robt.­
Ethelred II 8 Political faction in Ireland ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Auto race with 


G
.• oo i 

'(OO GET IS OE\t\£.R\T5 toR 8£'5\t\IRGHNG 1\-\E CUJS'S 
REI\JT~TIC~, PL\JS f'I'IE. Ot.M£~­
11'5 rOR Ctl\oiDIJG Uti.\3K0\41NG 
.AN Offlq.R, />.NO /l.. <:'8{'5\lRE IN n\E CLUB BooK Rl'K ~OT 
DE\JOOR\t.IG S\lS\E WI-\£N '{OI.) 
\11>.0 1\.\t CHMKE. 
f-I~M. /l..tl.i\1\ING 
E\5f.? 
" 
numerous checkpoints 10 Exchange premium 
11Diller's
"husband" 
deuce 
17 Endocrinologytopic 
Grey 22 "All--," 1931 
song 24 Marvelous 26 "Ninotchka" 
star's first name 
BILL WATTERSON 


I f:>.L~C15T TQLO 1..\ER OOR CODE 
W~Etl. SHE R\113SED tl.'i TUMt.\'i. 

27 Harder to find 28Smash Broadway musical 30 Winter month in Barcelona 31 "M*A*S*H" role 32 Closes a falcon's eyes 
35 Vane letters 36Gone up 39 Accomplishes 40Revealed 
SPELUNKER 
42 Satiate 43-facias 
(sheriff's writ) 45 Engenders 47 Justina-, 
Met basso 49-water (on the carpet) 51 Departed 
52 Hip bones 53 Trim 54 Bright ornament 56 Implode an old 
building 57 Deep blue 60 Donovan's 
secret agcy. 61 Gazelle 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
JAY HOSLER 

\N£'RE. v£RY PJ<ovD 
-

MOVIES: 
''HARLEM NIGHTS'' 
FRI./SEPT. 7~ 8 + 10:30 PM 
''HARD TO KILL'' 
SAT. SEPT. 8; 8 +10:30 PM CUSHING AUDITORI.UM $2.~1l0 



By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
A few days after the Sports Illustrated article appeared accusing Notre Dame of widepsread steroid use in its football program head coach Lou Holtz received a phone call from one of his fraternity brothers at Kent St<.te. 
"He said 'You've got the worst job in the country,'" Holtz said. "He said. 'you're in the worst profession you could be in.' He said, 'We were right

... in college. You sure aren't very smart."' "Now I don't know whether he was trying to be funny or what. One thing was obvious ­he was glad he had his job and I had mine. But I told him, 'I'm in the greatest profession in the world and I'm at the greatest place in the world.'" As he enters his fifth season at Notre Dame, one gets the feeling that Holtz has genuinely found happiness in the most pressure-filled program in the nation. While dealing with steroids, suspensions and pre-game fights, Holtz has managed a 37-11 record in four seasons at the helm of the Irish program. 
-
Volleyball to host Invitational 
By MIKE KAMPADT 
Sports Writer 
The women's volleyball team hopes this weekend is as good as last weekend was bad. After dropping their first three matches of the year, the Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational at the Joyce ACC Friday and Saturday. 
Notre Dame takes on Evansville at 8 p.m. on Friday. Saturday it's back to the court early with a 10 a.m. match against Saint Louis and then a 8 p.m. contest with the Broncos of Western Michigan University. 
"I have no idea what to ex­pect from these teams," said head coach Art Lambert. "We played Western Michigan last year, but they lost everybody and they have a very young 
;-_ 
He is 24-1 in the past two sea­sons, including a national championship in 1988. 
"Every other place there was something missing," Holtz said. "You think it's special here but you don't really understand what it's all about. It happens when you're part of the family. I don't want to be a well-known person. I n_ight be because there's no way you can't be at Notre Dame. I just want to coach here, live here and iden­tify with Notre Dame." 
In the early 1950s Holtz was one of 7 4 boys out for the East Liverpool, Ohio, High School football team. The number would ewmtuallv dwindle to 26 by the end of the season. 
That Holtz was one of those final 26 tells a lot about his character and also a lot about what he expects from those people around him. 
"Our high school coach was very tough, very demanding," Holtz said. "The only reason I didn't quit was that I couldn't figure out how I could tell my dad who was in the Pacific (in World War II) or my uncle who in the Battle of the Bulge that it was too tough. You just don't tell people who went through 


Jennifer Slosar 
team. Still, they're well coached and will be formidable for us. We haven't played Evansville or Saint Louis for three or four years so I don't know a thing about them." 
The Irish recovered from last weekend to have a good pro­ductive week of practice. 
"Things went very well this week," said Lambert. "I was pleased. Now we just have to 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

There used to be an unwritten rule in college football that the Heisman Trophy would not be awarded to underclassmen. 
But with the recent exodus of juniors into the NFL, the senior Heisman Trophy candidate is quickly becoming an endan­gered species. 
This year is no exception as six underclassmen, including two sophomores, are consid­ered strong favorites to win college football's most presti­gious award. It is conceivable that all five invitations to February's trophy presentation in New York's plush Downtown Athletic Club could go to under­classmen. 
Leading the pack is Notre Dame's own Raghib Ismail, widely considered the most ex­citing player in the country. Ismail's versatility knows no bounds as he has been utilized in much the same way as former Irish standout and Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, seeing action at 
transfer that to the court." 

"We practiced really well this week," agreed junior outside hitter Jennifer Slosar, one of last weekend's bright spots who will be sidelined this week­end by a stress fracture in her right ankle. 
"Everyone was pretty upset after last weekend. We know those teams were very heatable. We could have won them all. We can really be an excellent team, it's just that so far our work in practice and the game have been totally different. 
"We can make the NCAAs if we pull together. Everybody has to have their best game all the time. We have to focus and put our minds to it." 
Those are two of things that are firm beliefs of Jennifer 
see SLOSAR I page 21 

The 
Post-Season Awards 
Part Four of Four flanker, running back, and kickoff and punt returner. 
Not one to waste time, Ismail began gathering admirers with his special teams play during his freshman campaign, Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship season. Ismail was awarded the NCAA statis­tical title for kickoff returns despite falling two returns short of the number needed to qualify. The NCAA awarded him the title because his 36.1-yard average would still have led the country even if two returns of zero yards were averaged into his total. 
Now a junior, Ismail returns as a consensus All-American and The Sporting News's num­ber-one preseason candidate for the Heisman. However, the one factor standing between Ismail and the Heisman Trophy 
Irish to play two in Carolina 
By RICH KURZ 
SJ:.rurts Writer 

New head soccer coach Mike Berticelli is about to experience two more firsts at Notre Dame --his first regular-season road trip and his first match with a Top 20 opponent as the coach of ND. The Irish travel to Durham, N.C., to participate in the Metropolitan Life Classic, where they will face lOth­ranked Duke tonight, and 17th-ranked N.C. State on Sunday. 
Notre Dame soccer fans had some cause for concern throughout much of last Saturday's opener versus Dayton, as the Irish were something less than sharp. Much of that concern evapo­rated after a Notre Dame scoring blitz that ultimately gave them a 5-l overtime victory. At least it did in the mind of Coach Berticelli. 
"Hopefully playing better at the end has given us some momentum," Berticelli said, "but the level of competition will be far higher than against Dayton." 
Tonight the Irish will face a team that has already notched two wins against quality opponents, as Duke downed Jacksonville and the University of North Carolina--Greensboro ear­lier this season. 
The Blue Devils return nine starters from a team that compiled a 10-5-1 record and reached the Atlantic 
see SOCCER I page 20 








