

VOL. XXIII NO. 91 FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 16, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush meets with S. American leaders in drug summit 
Schedule of events for JPW 
R.O.T.C Receptions will be held at the following 
Friday, Feb.16: 

times: Air Force: Warrior lounge, 2 p.m.-4:30p.m.
1 p.m. -4 p.m.''Wake up the Echoes", a film Army: Building 5, Cadet Lounge, 2 p.m.-4:30 
chronicling Notre Dame football, will be shown 
p.m.

hourly in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre. Navy: R.O.T.C. Building, 2 p.m. -4:30p.m.
1 p.m. & 3 p.m.Campus tours will originate from the LaFortune Dooley Room. 1 :30 p.m. & 3 p.m.Shenanigans revue, Snite Annenberg Auditorium.
2:30 p.m. -8 p.m. Hospitality room, LaFortune 
Dooley Room. 2 p.m. -4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns open house.
9 p.m. -1 a.m. "Hats Off to Hollywood" Gala,Both domes of the JACC. 2 p.m. The Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform in Washington Hall. 
Saturday, Feb. 17: 2:30 p.m. -4 p.m. A Foreign Studies reception. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
2:30 p.m. • 4 p.m. The Observer reception, 3rd 
Floor, LaFortune 10 a.m.-12 p.m. Academic workshops are 
12 p.m. Tour of the Snite Museum of Art. 
scheduled for each of the four colleges. 
5:30 p.m. Mass begins promptly at 5:30; please 10:30 a.m.A campus tour will originate from the allow sufficient time to find a seat. This liturgy will ~ LaFortune Dooley Room. 
fulfill the Sunday obligation. 11 a.m. • 4 p.m. A hospitality room, Dooley Room 
7 p.m. ·10 p.m. President's Oinner,North Dome of of LaFortune. 
theJACC. 11 a.m., 12, 3, & 4 p.m.''Wake up the Echoes" will ~ be shown in the Montgomery Theatre. Sunday, Feb. 18: 
12:30 p.m. -2:30 p.m.Each dorm will sponsor a 
hall lunch. Off-campus students are encouraged to visit their former dorm: 9:30a.m. •12 p.m. Closing Brunch, JACC. 
.... .. 
CARTAGENA, Colombia (AP) -President Bush and three Latin American leaders, con­ducting drug-fighting summitry under an unusually heavy air, sea and land security cover, agreed Thursday on a coordi­nated attack against cocaine producers and murderous traffickers. 
Flanked by the leaders of the three largest cocaine-producing nations, Bush pledged after the talks to step up attempts to curtail the demand for nar­cotics at home and to help rombat drug-running abroad. 
But in a joint communique, the four leaders apparently ruled out the use of U.S. mili­tary forces in the Andean re­gion. "Each country may in­volve its armed forces in this fight within its own national territory," it said. 
Extraordinary security pre­cautions were taken to protect Bush and his three summit partners, with some 5,000 uni­formed troops watching over the proceedings. Battleships presented an imposing force off shore and helicopter gunships hovered nearby. 
But Colombian guerrillas made their own point, one of defiance. They kidnapped an American priest in Cali, the third U.S. citizen taKen pnsoner by rebels this week. Also, a small bomb exploded Thursday morning, 4 1/2 miles from Barranquila Airport, damaging a voltage regulator of a line that fed the air conditioning of the airport where Bush landed two hours later. 
Summing up his talks with the Latin American presidents, Bush told reporters, "I owe it to the children of America, the United States, ... to these three presidents, to guarantee them that we will do everything we can to cut . . . the demand for narcotics in the United States." 
That was a message that had been awaited by the three ­Presidents Virgilio Barco of Colombia, Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia and Alan Garcia of Peru, who came to the summit complaining that the United States had not done enough at home to curtail demand for drugs. 
Back in Washington, D.C., the 
U.S. capital, federal prosecu­tors sent a separate message ­announcing the indictment of Mayor Marion Barry on eight counts of perjury and posses­sion of a controlled substance. 
Zamora, with a nod to the sweeping reforms that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Mayor Marion Barry was in­dicted Thursday on three charges of perjury and five counts of cocaine possession, accused of smoking crack co­caine and lying repeatedly to a federal grand jury questioning him about drug use. 
His attorney said he would plead innocent to all charges. 
Barry was undergoing treat­ment at a Florida substance abuse clinic when the grand jury returned the indictment to a federal magistrate. He en­rolled in the clinic after his ar­rest last month in what author­ities say was a videotaped hotel drug sting. 
Only one of the charges stems from that encounter between Barry and Rasheeda Moore, an old friend brought in by the FBI. The other charges result from his association with Charles Lewis, who has pleaded guilty to drug conspiracy chanres. 
The 14-month investigation has focused on Barry's ties to Lewis. 
Barry has told top political aides he would abandon his hopes for a fourth term, but sources close to the mayor have said he would refrain from making any quick public state­ment about his political future any time soon. 
The mayor, who is being treated for what an aide has described as primarily an alco­hol problem, has turned the day-to-day operations of the District of Columbia govern­ment over to a top deputy. 
In the face of rumors that have dogged him the past sev­eral years, Barry steadfastly denied ever using drugs. 
The felony perjury counts all stem from questions a grand jury asked him about visits to Lewis' Washington hotel room in December 1988; four of the 
see BARRY I page 6 
had introduced to his part of the world, said a new openness had been attained here. "A per­estroika has begun," he told reporters at a wind-up news conference. 
Zamora said the leaders had talked about creating an "alternate economy" so the peasants of the coca-growing and processing nations would not be dependent on the crop for their livelihoods. 
After the meetings, he said, "We understand the true mag­nitude of the problem and how to face it." 
see SUMMIT I page 6 

:~ . 
Reroute recommended The Observer/John Studebaker Utilitv construction for the Edward Debartolo Classroom Buildinq continues on Dorr Road. Beginning Monday, Transpo and United Limo buses will no lonqer sto on the road, but will stop on the Main Gate Circle instead. The road is to be reopened by early April. 

Marion Barry indicted on drug u.se, perjury 
Main Circle will be used as bus stop
Special to the Observer 
The Main Gate Circle will be used as a bus stop and bus turn around for Transpo and United Limo buses serving the Notre Dame campus starting Monday at 6 a.m. 
Buses will not stop on Dorr Road in front of the Lewis Bus Shelter. Other bus stops and scheduling remain unchanged. The changes at Main Gate are necessary due to continuing utility construction along Dorr Road for the Edward DeBar­tolo Classroom Building. 
Parking and stopping is pro­hibited in the Main Gate Circle beginning Sunday at 11 p.m. 
Access to the U.S. Postal col­lection boxes and the 15 minute Post Office parking area will remain open. The service drive behind the Post Office wi11 be a one-way drive southbound, be­ginning Monday at 6 a.m. The service drive between the Law School and the Engineering School will close Monday and remain closed until the utility project is completed. 
Dorr Road is scheduled to re­open by early April, 1990. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
JPW: A chance to say thanks to our parents 
Mom and Dad, you didn't do such a bad 

Ken Tysiac
job after all. Your 

Sports Writer
babies grew up to be intelligent and some­what responsible people. As we prepare to leave the nest in search of careers and families, we want one --------­
last chance to thank you. 

Sure, you made mistakes. When we were born. Mom. you let the doctor smack us on the behind so hard that we couldn't sit up for six months. And Dad, we have never been embarrassed like on that Sunday at the 17th hole when you broke your nine-iron by bashing it against a tree because it was "defective." 
But as our school debts soar, we realize that through most of our lives you have 
steered us right. We may be in debt for the rest of our lives, but we are enjoying what we are doing. 
You may have let us down sometimes. But we let you down a few times, too. You were very understanding when we told you, for example, that our dates got sick in your car the night of the junior prom, even though you had to drive with the windows open for weeks. We also fought your authority when your restrictions were really reasonable. We were furious when you told us we couldn't go by ourselves to see Ozzy Osbourne. Now we realize you were right. 
In high school you were our biggest sup­porters. You were always at our basketball games, band concerts and dance recitals. But we occasionally treated you as our worst enemies, who wouldn't let us see Texas Chainsaw Massacre even though our friends had seen it at least eight times. 
When the time came to leave home, we realized you were not as stupid as we thought when we were in high school. And when we got our first $250 phone bill after talking to our high school sweethearts for an hour every night, we learned to beg. And limit our time on the phone. 
Since you left us here after Freshman Orientation, we dumped our hometown honeys and made new friends. We have even become accustomed to South Bend. We have made new lives for ourselves. 
We cannot make up for over two years of lost time in one weekend, but we can show you how prudently we have spent the $45,000 you have paid to get us out of your hair. We owe you at least that much. So sit back, relax, and enjoy your weekend here. After all those years of changing diapers. coaching summer soccer and pretending you didn't mind Guns 'N' Roses, enjoy the fruits of your labor. 
This one's for you, Mom and Dad. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
--Ih-e--0-bse.--. ~~r­
--~--=•=-'-' ­
PO Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Friday's Staff 
News Sports 
Tim O'Keefe Ken Tysiac Sandra Wiegand 
Production Acalnt 
Cristina Oritz Colleen Cronin 
Lisa Eaton Paul Pearson Brian Grunert VIewpoint 
Kevin Reisch 
Ad Design Becky Pichler 
Shannon Roach 
Amy Eckert 

Kerry Clair Systems 
Kathleen O'Conner Cesar Capella 
Maria Blohm Deirdre Bell 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~------------..,. 
Friday, February 16, 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 

~
® © ~ ~ m 0 fxxx~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
The Charity Ball needs volunteers to help make this event a success. If you're interested in helping a good cause, call Shannon McAuliffe at 283-4230 or Bryan Liptak at 283-3661. 
Summer Internships in Washington, D.C. are available through the Latin America Area Studies Pro­gram and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Up to three fellowships will be awarded to students dur­ing the summer of 1990 on the subjects of Latin America and human rights. For information and an application contact Linda Hudgins, Kellogg Institute, 121 Decio Hall, 239-7233n580. Deadline is March 9, 1990. 
WORLD 
Thousands of angry whites marched through Argentina and Britain announced an agreement the Pretoria, South Africa on Thursday to demand the Thursday to restore full diplomatic ties nearly eight years resignation of President F.W. de Klerk's government for after they fought a bloody 74-day war over the remote releasing Nelson Mandela and legalizing black opposition Falkland Islands. The announcement followed two days of groups. The opposition Conservative Party staged the talks in Madrid between Argentine and British officials. It rally to kick off a drive to oust de Klerk and preserve the was read in Spanish by Argentine ambassador-at-large apartheid system of racial segregation. Party chief An-Lucio del Solar and in English by British U.N. representa­dries Treurnicht demanded immediate elections and pre-tive Sir Crispin Tickell. dieted de Klerk would lose. 
NATIONAL 
The withdrawal of several thousand U.S. troops from South Korea over the next three years was agreed upon Thursday by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and South Korean officials, as Korea "takes the lead" in its own defense. Cheney, on the first leg of an Asian-Pa­cific tour that is also taking him to the Philippines and Japan, said the troop reductions would not be done "precipitously" and pledged to keep U.S. soldiers based here as long as the Korean people want them. 
A Chicago man was sentenced to life in prison Thursday for the murder of his girlfriend's 4-year­old son, who was beaten, burned, stuck with pins and forced to hang upside down in a closet. The woman was sentenced to life for letting it happen. In sentencing Johnny Campbell and Alicia Abraham, Circuit Judge Michael Getty said if he had let emotions dictate his ac­tions, the two would have received the death penalty for "the vicious, brutally sadistic torture and murder of Lat­tie McGee." 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Segments of the Berlin Wall have made their way to Indiana. Nearly 14 tons of the wall, purchased from East Germany's official export 
Volume in shares

office. were flown to Chicago and trucked to In­dianapolis, according to John Keller of Muncie. 174.63 Million Keller spent over 40 days in East Berlin to nego­tiate purchasing the wall pieces. He plans to market the segments, he said. 
1)-1.49 "Kids Need More than Band-Aids," a S&P Composite /\ 
334.89 1J' 2.88
letter-writing campaign that will urge state law­
Dow Jones Industrials 

makers to ease the burden on Indiana's over­worked child welfare caseworkers, was launched 2649.55 1)-25.23 Thursday by children's advocates. Marion County 
Precious Metals
Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith and Angela God­sey, 24, a former abused child, kicked off the Gold {J. $4.30 to $412.40/ oz. campaign at a Statehouse news conference. 
Sliver unchanged $5.33/ oz. 
Source: AP 
NYSE Index 184.70 

Barbara Bush had surgery to remove a small skin cancer from her upper lip, her press office said Thursday. "Don't make me laugh," Mrs. Bush told pre­schoolers during a visit to a day-care center in Manhat­tan. "I've had a little operation.... So don't do anything funny, no matter what. No laughing -don't even look funny," she said, prompting-of course-laughter. Mrs. Bush's office released first word of the surgery in a statement that described the procedure as "a routine outpatient medical procedure." 
The chief mate of the Exxon Valdez testified Thursday that he'd warned skipper Joseph Hazelwood that the seaman who took the helm on the ship's disas­trous last voyage "needed practice in steering." James Kunkel, corroborating earlier testimony by another offi­cer in Hazelwood's trial, said he'd sailed with seaman Robert Kagan four years earlier and on that voyage Ka­gan could not perform a simple task such as painting a bulkhead without constant supervision. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Minority, International and Non-Traditional Student Life at Saint Mary's will present a program by Cheryl Ash of the special services department of the South Bend Public Library on "What Will It be Like to Live There-Learning About the City You May Move To," at 12 noon Friday in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
Students interested in running for class officer should attend a mandatory meeting at 7:30p.m. Monday in the Sorin Room on the first floor of LaFortune. 
Shenanigans Concerts during JPW will be held Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and 3 p.m. in the Annenberg Audi­torium. 
Yesterday's high: 30 
Yesterday's low: 23 
Nation's high: 97 
(McAllen, Texas} Nation's low: -34 (West Yellowstone, Mont.} 
Forecast: Cloudy, windy and colder today with a 40 percent chance of early morning showers. Temperature falling into the middle 20s by evening. Cloudy tonight. Lows 15 to 20. Partly cloudy and cold Saturday. Highs 25 to 30 . 
ALMANAC 
e In 1804: Lt. Stephen De­catur led a successful raid into Tripoli Harbor to burn the U.S. Navy frigate "Philadelphia," which had fallen into the hands of pirates. e In 1862: During the Civil War, about 14,000 Confederate soldiers surrendered at Fort Donelson, Tenn. General Ulysses Grant's victory earned him the nickname. "Uncondi­tional Surrender Grant." e In 1945: During World War II, more than 2,000 American troops dropped onto the island of Corregidor in the Philippines. e In 1959: Fidel Castro be­came president of Cuba after the overthrow of Fulgencio Batista. 

Friday, February 16, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Mandela says gov't facilities fair targets 

SOWETO, South Africa (AP) -Nelson Mandela said Thurs­day his guerrilla movement considers government facilities legitimate targets and will con­tinue attacking them until South Africa's white leaders negotiate an agreement on ra­cial equality. 
Mandela, the African Na­tional Congress leader released Feb. 11 after 27 years in prison, also said civilian casu­alties are inevitable in a bomb­ing and sabotage campaign. 
In the capital of Pretoria, thousands of conservative whites protested President F.W. de Klerk's decision to free Mandela and legalize the ANC and other black groups. 
The government announced that 1,000 army troops will be deployed in Natal Province to quell violence between black organizations that disagree over the best way to fight for the rights of the black majority. 
"Our objective is that the tar­
gets are government installa­tions," Mandela said in an in­terview from his home in Soweto, the township outside Johannesburg. But he added, "In a conflict, civilians must be caught up in cross fire." 
Mandela helped launch the ANC's guerrilla campaign in 1961, a year after the organi­zation was outlawed, and was 
jailed the following year. The -~~~~;~;;aE=Iilllll
ANC's official policy always has been to limit attacks to gov­ernment facilities and person­nel, although some hard-line ANC leaders have expressed a desire to hit civilian targets. 
There have been numerous attacks on civilians in recent years, but the ANC has said those were the result of guerril­las who had not undergone proper training. 
Mandela said that prior to a De Klerk legalized the ANC on Dec. 13 meeting with de Klerk, Feb. 2. Although there have "I made it clear that the armed been few ANC attacks in the struggle will never be sus­past year, the organization pended, to say nothing of it be­says its guerrilla campaign re­ing stopped, until a settlement mains one of its strategies to is reached, and we stick to that put pressure on the government decision." to abolish apartheid. 
live in portions of land set aside in 1936. The homelands make up about 13 percent of South African territory. 
APIT. Dean Caple 

"We would like to move away strategies." from the situation of conflict The ANC has demanded the and confrontation," Mandela lifting of the 3 112-year-old
said. But "as long as apartheid state of emergency and the re­exists, and as long as the gov­lease of all political prisoners ernment has not created the before it will hold direct talks conditions conducive to negoti­with the government. ations, we will maintain all our 
U.S. Latin America policy will be more indifferent: Wilde 
By PATRICK HEALY News Writer 
The U.S.'s foreign policy to­wards Latin America will be­come more indifferent during the Bush administration. said Alexander Wilde of the Wash­ington Office of Latin America. 
The implication of events in Eastern Europe, China, and the growth of Japan was that the United States was no longer a superpower, but a great power, said Wilde, and that the world is "at the end of an era, for Central America as well." 
Wilde said that Central Amer­ica had reached the end of an era in two respects. First, he said, the "extraordinary atten­tion" given to Central America beginning with the Carter ad­ministration is winding down under President Bush. Second, the improving relationship be­tween the executive and con­gressional branches regarding Central America is a change from recent administrations. 
Wilde reflected on the Nixon, Carter, and Reagan administra­tions to give insight on the pre­sent Latin American foreign policy of the Bush administra­tion and Congress. 
Wilde labeled Nixon's foreign policy a "traditional U.S. vision of Latin America," and cited Nixon and Henry Kissinger's support of the overthrow of so­cialist president Allende in Chile as "sinister." He also noted that Nixon failed to oppose a coup that overthrew a legiti­mately elected government in El Salvador. 
Latin America became the fo­cal point of foreign policy dur­ing the Carter years, according to Wilde. He said that this was because of the vicious dictator­ships in the region. Wilde said that the second half of the Carter administration was the "beginning of significant mili­tary aid that continued into the Reagan era." 
Wilde said that Reagan was "obsessive about Nicaragua," and got into what he called a "stylized" battle with Congress over Contra aid. He said that Reagan's efforts were defeated primarily by the Central Ameri­can Peace Accord in August of 1987.· 
The Peace Accord, written by Costa Rican president Oscar Arias, reinforced the Demo­cratic Party's opposition to contra aid. 
Wilde said the Bush adminis­tration will differ from previous administrations regarding Latin America in that much less attention will be given to the region. 
He pointed out several char­acteristics of the Bush adminis­tration's attitude regarding Latin America. He said that the administration is very "pragmatic," and sees the re­gion as a "no-win situation." He also noted a weariness in Congress regarding the area as well. 
Bush is also looking to avoid ruining improved relations with Congress by engaging in battles over policy towards Latin America, said Wilde. 
Wilde stressed a lack of ideol­ogy by Bush regarding the re­gion, saying the president takes a case-by-case approach to is­sues and is very conscious of public opinion. 
Regarding Nicaragua, Wilde called the country the center of a "shameful, disgraceful policy for a decade." He said that Bush's policy has been neither 


Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 
as bad nor as good as many expected. 
Wilde said that the Bush pol­icy has been to hope the "Sandinistas would stumble" in their effort to win the upcoming national elections. He said that if the Sandinistas win, the U.S. might consider dropping the embargo against Nicaragua. 
Discussing the contras, Wilde said they would not remain in Nicaragua or come to the U.S., but rather settle in Honduras. He added that Honduras would accept the contras after being "bought off' by the adminis­tration. 
Wilde also discussed El Sal­vador, saying that the U.S. government and other nations must put pressures on both ARENA and the FMLN, the right and left-wing parties, to initiate negotiations. He said that a resolution of the investi­gation of the murders of the Jesuits is "crucial" and noted that the religious community in this country is "highly mobi­lized" in Washington. 
Wilde called the invasion of Panama "a stupid thing to do in many ways," and said that Bush got "a chance to prove his manhood," and did. He stated that Americans love "small wars we know we can win." 
He noted serious problems down the road for Panama. He said the U.S. will probably not "even provide for the damage we did in the invasion." 
Wilde said the new Endara government has "limited legiti­macy" and is a "white govern­ment in a not-so-white popula­tion." 
Wilde predicted that the in­difference he believes the Bush administration has shown and will continue to show will allow Latin Americans to have more of a voice in their own affairs. He said the indifference is mostly due to the amount of ac­tivity occurring throughout the rest of the world. 
The presentation was part of the "Prospects for Peace and Democracy in Central America Lecture Series" and was spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute and the Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies, and was entitled, "The Bush Administra­tion, Congress and Central America Beyond the Reagan Era?" 





When the Great American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre D~ for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For iafor111atioa: 
Fr. Jo•• Coaley, CSC Vocatio• Dlredor loz541 loire Da.., II 46556 
239-6315 

page 4 The Observer Friday, February 16, 1990 



IN EASTERN E 
OPE 
~on. Feb. 19,1990 ~on. Feb. 19,1990 Wed. Feb. 21, 1990 "What do the issues in Eastern "Implications and Realities of "Creating a Democracy in Hungary" Europe mean to students as members 
German Reunification" 7:OOpm Montgomery Theater, 
LaFortune Student Center ofthe ND community and as 7:30pm CSC Main Purpose Room 

Thurs. Feb. 22, 1990 citizens ofa nation?" Tues.Feb.20, 1990 "Solidarity and the Future ofPoland: "Lithuania: Is Independence Possible?" After the Euphoria" 
7:30pm CSC Main Purpose Room 7:OOpm Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 
F.E.E.D. M.E. -Fabulous Eastern European Dinner: Meal and Entertainment -Dinner and Polka Dance! 6:30pm Saturday, February 24, 1990 • North Dining Hall • Reservations Required call239-7668 


Alternatives for fighting crack presented in talk 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI 
News Writer 

New approaches for combat­
ting the growing crack epi­
demic were presnnted by Steven 
Thomas, Assistant Commis­
simwr of Corrections for New 
York City. 

Thomas is rnsponsibln for all 
social and hnalth serviens in the 
twelve jails of the City of New 


York. but is on leavn. Thomas 
Steve Thomas 

is currently developing pro­
grams ranging from nnw ap­also said "we cannot ignore 
proaches to detoxification for the need for understanding be­
crack addicts to social services tween crack and poverty." 
for their families. Thomas said there is a lack of 
In New York state alone, support of the fight against 
500,000 people pnr day use ille­crack because the general pub­
gal drugs and thirty percent of lie misunderstands the intensity 
them are under eighteen years of the violence and poverty 
of age, said Thomas. One bil­caused by crack cocaine. 
lion dollars is spent on the 
prison system in New York City Solutions that Thomas pre­
each year. yet funding and ef­sented included increased fund­
forts to deal with the problems ing from the federal govern­
of tlw AIDS virus, the homeless, ment. Funding is, "if not a solu­
and drug addiction are absent, tion. a strategy, and the im­
hn said. mense bureaucracy responding 
For this reason he has taken is the first step for change," he 
!nave from his frustrating work said. With this cooperation, 
within the inner city of New treatment. education, and pre­
York to look for alternatives, vention of crack abuse would 
Thomas said. be possible, said Thomas. 
Saying that there are "very Thomas called for leadership few creative and aggressive re­from the church to assist the sponses to the drug problem," poor affected by crack: "The Thomas proposed his own so­Catholic Church has abandoned eial welfare and substance the responsibility of their poor abuse policies. These policies and helpless and can with try to deal with the damage to community organizations bring 
the family unit caused by success to the lives of crack drugs, such as poverty and lack users and victims of its de­of productivity, he said . struction." In dealing with the crack epi­Thomas currently is a visit­
demic, Thomas said enforce­ing faculty member at Duke ment is the way to attack the University, and is a 1978 cum problem as a criminal issue. He laude graduate of Notre Dame. 

Hard sell falls flat for nude condominiums 
BRANFORD, Conn. (AP) -"You have to be creative in a Not even the prospect of a slow market, but this idea is place to frolic in the nude is dead," said Douglas Nelkin, a 
luring buyers to a proposed marketing consultant on the condominium project in Con­project. necticut's slumping real estate The complex would have been 
market. 

the first of its kind in New PST Corp. of Westport tried England, although they are 
to draw customers to its 42-popular in California and some unit Oak Hill Condominium by Southern states, Nelkin said. offering a "clothing optional" PST has an option on the land 
recreation area consisting of a and was trying to drum up in­clubhouse, sauna, pool and hot terest in condos selling for tub. $179,000 to $199,000. 

AP Photo 

A soldier keeps watch through broken windows in a flat in down­town Dushanbe where a state of emergency and curfew have been declared. 
Schoenherr, former college dean at NO, dies at 96 Special to The Observer Dr. Karl Schoenherr, .former dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, died Feb. 7 in Washington, D.C. lie was 96. Schoenherr was dean of engineering from 1945 to 1958. While a civilian with the Department of Navy, he developed a formula, the "Schoenherr Mean Line," for computing the force neces­sary to propnl a ship through watnr and was awarded the Department's distinguished civilian service medal. The burial was Monday, Feb. 12 in Washington, D.C.  
Calvin and Hobbes, Far Side and Spelunker see page 19.  


"' ~::t... ~::t... ~::t... ~::t... ~::t... ~!:i.Mo. ~::t... ~:~ ~::t... ~:~ ~:~ ~:~ ~:~,.t ~~~~~~~~~~~-­
:.: ~~f e~ '"' rifutd .·,= ·~~ !990 f 
• ATIENTION STUDENTS Off Campus Si2n -ups:
.B February 12-16 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch.
I 


February 12-March 5 at Lafortune lnfonnatlon desk. On Campus Sl2n -ups: Now -March 5. Look for posters in respective donns. 
"Christmas In Aprill990" will take place on April 7, in the Washington Street neighborhood 
•• This project needs your support! QUESTIONS??? Please call: Karen Croteau Xl367 Lora Mangan Xl314 Isabel Navarrete·XI314 Bob Scheibel X2544 


~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Kohl under fire for reunification plans 
BONN, West Germany (AP)­Opposition leaders accused Chancellor Helmut Kohl on Thursday of using the East German crisis to enhance his political standing and secure a place in history as the man who unified Germany. 
During a raucous, insult­filled Parliament session, Kohl in turn accused the opposition of being allied with the old Communists who ruled East Germany with an iron fist. 
The chancellor also came un­der fire in East Germany, where the Communist-led government accused Kohl of exaggerating the country's economic and po­litical problems to speed reuni­fication. 
The verbal brawl in Parlia­ment gave West German voters a preview of what is likely to be a bitter campaign for West German elections in December, and the pivotal role reunifica­tion will play. 
The West German campaign is even influencing the cam­paign for East Germany's first free elections March 18. In an­ticipation of eventual reunifica­tion, West German parties have been aligning themselves with, and in fact influence, the fledgling political parties in East Germany. 
Kohl outlined to Parliament 
his weekend talks with Soviet 
President Mikhail Gorbachev on 
reunification. He said both 
agreed the March 18 elections 
-when the Communist gov­
ernment likely will be ousted ­
were a key to reunification. 
"I was able to underscore my 
firm belief (to Gorbachev) that 
the result of the elections will not only be a democratic and negotiations-capable govern­ment, but also a government program with the clear goal: 'Unity as soon as possible,"' said Kohl. 
Kohl said his talks "set the course" for unification. 
"Never before since the divi­sion of our land ... have we been so close to our goal ... " Kohl told Parliament. 
Hans-Jochen Vogel, head of the main opposition Social Democrats, accused Kohl of providing too little financial help for East Germany and of using unification for his own political benefit. 
"You have talked, awakened hOpes, set conditions ... and meditated over your place in the history books. But there hasn't been much help," said Vogel. 
Vogel also said Kohl was wrong to speak about a "historic breakthrough" from his talks with Gorbachev and said that Gorbachev already had said the Soviets supported Germans' right to self-determi­nation before the talks. 
"If we are to speak about a historic breakthrough, then it was this decision of Mikhail Gorbachev," said Vogel. 
Kohl's address was inter­rupted several times as he lam­basted the Social Democrats for having close contacts with East Germany's now-disgraced Communists during years past. 
"You were allied with these 
people," said Kohl, also charg­
ing that the Social Democrats 
did not favor German unifica­
tion until it became politically 
expedient. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Sophomores Kelly McHugh and Rachel Finke make decorations for the "Hats Off to Hollywood" Gala, a JPW event that takes place today. 
Stolen VCR leads to child molester's arrest 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The discovery of a homemade child­sex tape in a stolen videocas­sette recorder led to the arrest of the VCR owner on charges of molesting a 9-year-old neighbor girl, authorities said Thursday. 
Ward Rafay, 28, was ar­raigned Wednesday on nine counts of child molestation and one of possessing a kilogram of marijuana for sale, and was being held on $50,000 bail. 
Two weeks ago, Rafay told police that a VCR was stolen from his apartment in Downey, 10 miles southeast of down­town Los Angeles. Deputy Dis­trict Attorney Dean Shotwell said the thief sold the VCR with the telltale tape inside. 

The buyer recognized the girl on the tape and arranged through another party for the tape to be turned over to the girl's mother, he said. Authori­ties do not know the identities of the thief or the buyer. 
Rafay was arrested hours after the enraged mother con­tacted police. 
"The mother of the victim no­tified us Saturday that she had a tape depicting immoral acts with her children," said Downey police Detective Capt. Bob Williams. 
He refused to give other de­tails of the case, saying, "We don't want to hamper the inves­tigation. We have a possibility of possibly three other vic­tims." 
The two-hour tape shows Rafay discussing sex with a child, winning her cooperation and engaging in sexual acts with her, according to police. 
If convicted of all charges, Rafay faces up to 25 years in prison. 
The mother's identity wasn't revealed, but Shotwell said she lives with her daughter in the same building as Rafay. The prosecutor said there were no other suspects, but Williams said, "We are looking at other people." 



~~~~s ";::J(GW
SEAFOOD ~ "~~ 


Smnmer 
Jlousing
m 
New 
York 
City 
Housing available 
May 20-August 11 For more information and an application, call toll free 
1-800-228-4NYU Ext. 775 
New York University is an 
affinnalivr arlion/equal opportunilv institution. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and SWiday brunch 
219-259-9925 

Will you be working. doing an internship. or enjoying a summer in New York? You can live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an NYU Associate or join us and take a course in our exciting summer sessions if you wish. 
• 
Minutes from New York's business and cultural centers 

• 
Apartment-style and traditional residenc~s; single and double occupancy 

• 
Outstanding sports-recreation facility 

• 
Includes the New York Experience. an enjoyable noncredit program exploring career. life. and culture mNew York City 


• Over 1,000 undergraduate,
graduate, and at
professional courses offered day and evening 
New 
York 


University 

!;;::~',.! 
~ 
~ i 
NYU Summer Housing 
14-A Washington Place 
New York, N.Y. 10003 



page 6 The Observer 
Tight security seals Cartagena 
CAHTAGENA, Colombia (AP) off security guards spaced Marine amphibious assault -Soldiers wore camouflage around the parade grounds as company that can be us('1d in uniforms and had automatic ri­a U.S. counter-assault team the case of an emergency.fles at their sides. Helicopter looked on -its members Colombian navy frogmengunships made passes over the wearing casual slacks, polo checked the bay, apparently city and its beaches while shirts and huge backpacks. looking for explosives near the frigates patrolled the bay -all "First class. We've got the Spanish fortification where the part of an extraordinary secu­best, the best," Bush said at presidents were meeting.rity blanket thrown over the one point in boasting about the drug summit. security detail. The air corridor between the 
Typifying the protective mea­The U.S. security forces had Caribbean coastal cities of Bar­sures was a swarm of heli­taken extraordinary measures ranquilla and Cartagena was copters that accompanied to guard Bush following a re­closed to civilian aircraft. Two President Bush from Barran­port in December that Colom­American Blackhawk heli­quilla, 60 miles northeast of bian drug lords had taken a copters belonging to Colombia's here, to the summit site at a $30 million contract on the army joined in the security heavily fortified naval base. president's life and reports that cover enveloping Cartagena 
surface-to-air missiles had Bay. 

The helicopters rode fast and been acquired to shoot down There was no apparent sign hugged the terrain in what was his plane. of danger to Bush or to his described as an evasionary Two U.S. warships, the Nas­summit partners -Presidents tactic against any attack. The sau and the Sampson, were Virgilio Barco of Colombia, presidential chopper landed cruising off the 'Colombian Alan Garcia of Peru and Jaime fast. It blew hats and helmets coast. The Nassau carries a Paz of Bolivia. 
Friday, February 16, 1990 


Coca 

Estimated maximum amounts in three Andean countries 
DPeru • Bolivia .Colombia 


Barry AP 
continued from page 1 

five misdemeanor possession charges result from the same investigation. The fifth posses­sion count represents thf' for­mal lodging of a charge in con­nection with his Jan. 18 cocaine possession arrest. 
U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens said of the perjury charges, "Mr. Barry falsely testified ... 
that he was unaware of any
narcotics activity by Mr. Charles Lewis, when he stated that Mr. Lewis had never given him, Mr. Barry, any narcotics, and when he stated that he, Mr. Barry, had never given any nar­cotics to Mr. Lewis." 
Stephens would not take questions after reading a brief statement to reporters. 
If convicted of a felony, the 53-year-old mayor would be required to resign, with city council chairman David Clarke becoming acting mayor. A spe­cial election would be held within 120 days of any resigna­tion, unless that date fell within 60 days of the regularly sched­uled Nov. 6 general election. 
Clarke, one of four an­nounced Democratic candidates vying for Barry's job, described the legal developments as "a tragedy for Marion and for the city." 
Jesse Jackson also has been considered a possible candidate for the post but has said he will not run against Barry. 
Since his arrest, Barry's political support in the city has dwindled and several support­ers have urged him not to seek another term. There also have been calls for his resignation. 

promised to work to help open more U.S. markets.


Summit 
In their communique, the 
continued from page 1 
summit nations called for a "world conference against il­
Barco said, "No," when licit drug trafficking in 1991." asked if Colombia would be The four nations agreed to hold willing to have U.S. naval a high-level followup to Thurs­forces patrolling in interna­day's session within six tional waters off Colombia's months, but specified no level coast to keep track of drug of U.S. aid to help the South shipments. "It is not neces­Americans. sary," he said. Bush previously had pledged 
Said Garcia: "What has $2.2 billion over five years to changed here is concepts, so aid the Andean countries eco­that we never go back -a bet­nomically and militarily in ter relationship between Latin waging the drug war. 
America and the United The statement recognized States." that persuading Andean farm­
Responding to Colombian ers to substitute legal crops for complaints that U.S. trade pol­coca, the leaves of which are icy has harmed its major legal used to make cocaine, would exports such as coffee, cut have "significant, immediate flowers and sugar, Bush and long-term economic costs" 

SOVIET UNION 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan G. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

~ 
Wish "The Kid" a Happy 21st 
L 
Happy 
Birthday, 

E.J. 
Cunningham 
from the rest of the boys<> at Club Oak Hill 


SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, 

teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 
....•••••••••••••••••
DQIININ 
Find out more from 
UIJ,fiQIIS 
Father McDonnell Mon. Feb. 19, Tues. Feb 20, Wed. Feb. 21 9-4pm Center for Social Concerns Contact Mary Ann Roemer 239-5293 

on the three South American guards roamed the nearly countries. empty streets. A squadron of 
Hesponding to Colombian fighter bombers and a fleet of complaints that U.S. trade pol­warships stood by. Dogs icy has harmed its major legal sniffed for bombs. exports such as coffee, cut The bomb at Barranquilla flowers and sugar, Bush airport exploded at a high-ten­promised to work to help open sion electricity tower in the vil­more U.S. markets. lage of Soledad, the manager of 
U.S. officials also reached the electric company for the 
agreement with Bolivia to help state of Atlantico, Eduardo stem the movement of U.S. Berano de La Rosa told the As­firearms into South American sociated Press. 
nations and signed tax accords 
with both Bolivia and Peru He said he could not estimate aimed at establishing a system how big the bomb was but from to trace drug profits and the little damage that it caused, money-laundering schemes. it could not have been very 
Gunboats patrolled Cartagena powerful. No group has Bay. The sparkling blue claimed responsibility for the waterway was closed to harbor bombing, he said. traffic. Frogmen checked the After landing at Barranquilla, bay. Helicopters buzzed over­Bush flew 60 miles in a swarm 
head. Some 5.000 security of five helicopters. 
"STAND UP LIKE A MAN--" 
******************** 

M.9l!l\_'l(rJJI(j(jS! 

TOWNHOUSES 








For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 



232-8256 

More ethnic unrest troubles Soviet Union 
MOSCOW (AP) -Thousands of people defied a ban on protests in Dushanbe, the vio­lence-torn capital of Tadzhik­istan, to demand the resigna­tion of the entire local Com­munist Party leadership, Soviet media said Thursday. 
A crowd estimated at 8,000 also demanded jobs for tens of thousands of unemployed, bet­ter housing and an end to the sale of pork, which the largely Moslem population is forbidden to eat, the official news agency Tass reported. 
Another demonstration out­side the main government buildings attracted 2,000 to 5,000 people who chose a committee that recommended settling problems peacefully. Tass and other sources said. 
Mansur Sultanov, deputy chairman of the Tadzhik branch of Gostelradio, said by telephone there were no shoot­ings or riots Thursday, but Tass said bands of armed mili­tants roamed the streets. 
The news agency said 18 people had been killed and 200 injured since the violence began Saturday night in Dushanbe, 1,600 miles southeast of Moscow near the borders of China and Afganistan. It said 57 soldiers were among the wounded. 
A report of a bizarre incident said an Italian actor whose crime-lighting television show has been broadcast in the So­viet Union was caught in the vi­olence Saturday night and found himself signing auto­graphs when a tank that res­cued him stopped at some burning buses. 
Corriere Della Sera. an Italian 
newspaper, said Michele 
Placido of the television show 
"Piovra" arrived in Dushanbe 
on Saturday to make a movie 
about the war in Afghanistan. 
It said one Soviet member of 
the film crew was killed and 
others were injured when a 
mob stormed their hotel and 
partially burned it. 
Riots began when rumors 
spread that ethnic Armenians fleeing persecution in the Azer­baijan republic were being moved into Tadzhikistan, where housing is scarce. Officials said only a few dozen refugees had arrived. 
Authorities declared a state of emergency Monday that pro­hibits demonstrations and im­poses a curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. to help stop ethnic at­tacks and looting. 
Tass said 5,000 Interior Min­istry troopers and policemen were enforcing the emergency. They appeared more in control Thursday than a day earlier, when seven people were killed and 40 injured in street battles between militants and citizens' self-defense groups. 
Tass qu6ted Maj. Gen. M. Navzhuvanov, the military commandant, as saying about 50,000 residents of various na­tionalities had formed self-de­fense groups. 
Tadzhikistan is the latest of several Soviet republics to suf­fer ethnic strife during Mikhail Gorbachev's five years in power. He has said repeatedly that the turmoil threatens his reform program and has used force to put down uprisings in several republics that have taken hundreds of lives. 
Sultanov, of Gostelradio, de­nied media reports that a mob rampaged through a hospital and smashed life-saving equip­ment. 
He said viewers started call­ing immediately after Thursday evening's edition of the televi­sion news show Vremya men­tioned such an attack. The re­port was not carried in the ver­sion broadcast in Moscow three hours later. 
On Wednesday, young women on a bus were beaten up for "breaking the sharia," or Moslem law, by traveling in public without their heads cov­ered, said Interfax, a publica­tion of Moscow radio. 

BARHANQUILLA, Colombia (AP) -President Bush com­plained testily Thursday about news accounts which he said portrayed him as deceptive, declaring he would hold fewer news conferences and initiate a "new approach" toward re­porters. 
"From now on, it's going to be a little different. ... So we've got a new relationship," Bush told reporters traveling with him aboard Air Force One to the four-nation Colombia drug summit. 
"It will be pleasant. It will be fun. But it's different," said the president, who has averaged one question and answer ses­sion with reporters each week since taking office 13 months ago. 
Later, Bush's press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, said the 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••• president was "just kidding" in 
asserting that he would have fewer news conferences and in declining comment on a series of questions. 
"He was having fun," Fitzwa­ter said. 
The president, who appar­ently read a wire service ac­count of his testy mood on the plane, protested to reporters later: ''I'm not fuming." 
What appeared to have raised the presidential ire were stories detailing instances in which Bush appeared to be saying one thing and doing something dif­ferent. 
Most recently Bush told a news conference on Monday that it wasn't time yet for a conference among the United States, the Soviet Union, Bri­tain and France on the future status of Germany. "Not at this juncture," he told the news con­ference. 
HEY MASON, ~--------------------~ 
A "Z1 BUN GIVE US THE SALUTE" TO LOOK!! YOU ADRIAN! 
.
'1-.~-~< 
HAPPY 19th . 
. 
1111PPtf 81RTIIOI1tf/ 
.f(!)Vt-

Tom, Pete, Elaine, and 
Mary LOVE­PATTY, KERRY, CINDY, TIM, GARRY , JAN& JOHN 
Yet, the next day, a major agreement was announced in Ottawa by Secretary of State James Baker on a German re­unification push that would in­clude a summit among the four powers that vanquished Ger­many in World War II. 
"When I told you . . . that I didn't think there'd be a deal and there shortly was a deal, then I'm hit for deceiving you," Bush groused Thursday. 
Bush, a onetime CIA director, has conducted much of his for­eign policy in secrecy. 
Two missions to China by na­tional security adviser Brent Scowcroft came despite a Bush announcement in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square crackdown that he was barring high-level exchanges between the two countries. 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
ME~.-_&
~OM. EN 

.  .  
I  -.  
I  '  ·.  
I  

531 N. Michigan St. Phone 23 -7 
Xf!!~~NC~!~-­
.--------"'
IHIGH SPEED coPIEs I 

325 DIXIEWAY NOATH • SOUTH BEND (219] 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 616 684-2080 

PASTA DISHES LASAGNA SEAFOOD RISOTIO SHELLS FLORENTINE STUFFED FLOUNDER EGG PLANT PARMIGIANA CAPPELLETII 
BANQUET ROOM 
"Since 1981" 
@a~lol'o 
"The Italian Ristorante" 
Dinner 4 p.m. -11 p.m. Sundays 4-9 p.m. (219) 232-4244 

YOU'RE THE 
GREATEST! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
UL O'll:l{_LOVE­
Mom, Dad, Tricia, Mike, Brian, and Annie 

~J 
Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, February 16, 1990 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Ednor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
University needs fair, clear JPW guidelines 
The University tries to make Junior Parents Weekend a beautiful experience for the juniors and their parents, but in the process manages every year to drive the rest of the student body to take a weekend vacation. 
Although no edict was issued from the office of student affairs for JPW, the cancellation of the Freshman Class Formal, and the restrictions on "gatherings" in most dorms sends a clear message to the rest of the student body: children should be seen, but not heard. 
The Freshman Class Council planned its off-campus formal at a time when there is little else to do as most dorms restrict social gatherings and some even move parietals to midnight or declare 24-hour quiet hours. For some reason, the Council initially received approval from Student Affairs only to have them later postpone the event after complaints from hall rectors. 
Student Activities should have allowed them to have their formal. The event was scheduled off-campus and the Council had taken proper precautionary measures to assure the event would not get out of hand. 
The lack of a clear policy for the weekend has caused confusion in the case of the formal and with the individual dorms. Some dorms have severe social restrictions while others have none at all. 
The University holds the JPW so parents can see their children, meet their friends, and find out what college life at Notre Dame is like. But instead seeing a college campus, parents are greeted by a mausoleum. We can see why the Administration would want to impress the parents but why do they attempt to present such a ridiculous ruse. The Administration does not change the rules for the Parent's Home Football game, why does it choose to do it now? 
An advertisement in yesterday's Observer may leave some junior parents feeling unwelcome. But the mug shot of Manuel Noriega with the words "Feel imprisoned by JPW?" plastered above him captures the sentiments of most Notre Dame students perfectly. The administration needs to provide some clear guidelines for JPW-ones that are fair for all Notre Dame students. 
DOONESBURY 

TH/5/S R01.AJDHEIJt.eY, RJ3POfU­IN6 R<OM A~ veNUe CON5tf?ffRW 8Y 50M/3 70 813 7W IJAN66llJUS TO COV&R ! 
WIJAY TH/3 S/3aJRJTY f1JRCe3 OF 7WO NATION5 /.£7OUTS/6H'3 OF RU/5F A5 PI?&51/?&NT GC(JI?(3f3 8lEH tlfT'aJ/Url!JIANAIR5PN&. 

LETTERS 

Good impression is deceptive 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor... . ........... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor... . . ......... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Editor.. . ...... John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor.... . ............ Eric Bailey OTS Director..... . ........... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.............. Christine Gill Controller..... . . . ........... Anne Lindner 
Dear Editor: 
The highly touted Junior Parents' Weekend will soon be upon us and once again, the highly ethical Catholic institu­tion we love and call our home appears to be practicing decep­tion for the occasion. During this particular weekend we will be subject to 12 a.m. parietals and on campus parties will be prohibited. 
For what reason, you may ask. So that we may have more privacy? So that we may have more study time? No, this is being done to make a "good" impression upon the visiting parents, and a false impression at that. 

Why must a school of such high moral standards stoop to practice the art of deception? I may have been ill advised, but I thought one of the intentions of the Junior Parents' Weekend was to give the parents an idea of what Notre Dame was like. 
Instead, they will witness a carefully doctored image of what life here is not like. Rather than seeing students out and about, parents will see a socially sterile environment that is not typical of Notre Dame. 
The issue at hand is not the loss of four hours of "partying" on one particular weekend. That is not worth any particu-
Trumpeters present 
Dear Editor: 
In Jeanne Blasi's "Inside Column," "Clever N.D. 'men' trumpet their love to women," she remarks on an incident which occurred late one evening outside her residence hall. Some male members of the Notre Dame student body were, according to Ms. Blasi's article, heard loudly singing: "Da-Da­Da-W--chicks suck!" 
I can only take this vague statement to mean that the gentlemen involved were shouting "Welsh chicks suck!" I therefore have no recourse but to publicly chastise Ms. Blasi for her lighthearted treatment of this horrible racial injustice towards the citizens of Wales. Such a violent display of anti­Welsh discrimination cannot be tolerated. The tolerance exhibited here by Observer staffers is an outrage and should be vehemently condemned. 
Be advised, this is far from the first time I have heard anti­Welsh sentiment in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 
tATtR. ~Y, MR. BUSHIAIIUR&TlJRN m7Hf31f/HITI3 Ha£e, 11/HeR& H/3 IS 13XPECTW TO 81?/&F !iTAFFI3/?S aJ TH/3 MOST SI6NIFIC4NT!Jt.V/3tOP­
M/3NT OF HIS M/93/0N HtR&. 

Why, just a week ago I heard a Lyons student make the statement that "all Welsh peo­ple look the same." Two days later, a Saint Mary's student amazed me with a comment to the effect of, "Sure he's lazy. All people from Wales are. The only things they can do are dance and play the harp, and they're always drunk!" And how many times have you heard 
Jar concern. However, when I 
feel a school which I have 
grown to respect is attempting 
to deceive visiting parents, 
something is obviously wrong. 
If we aren't to be trusted to 
behave, then perhaps more RA's 
on duty that particular weekend 
could remedy the situation. In 
any event, I feel it is hardly 
proper for Notre Dame to be 
creating a propagandized im­
age of its student body. I think 
one of the last things we need 
Ho worry about is being labeled 
a "party school." 
Dennis McDonald !·)tanford Hall 
Feb. 8, 1990 
yourself say, after making an 
off-color joke, "Hey, I don't re­
ally mean it. Heck, some of my 
best friends are Welsh." 
It is toward the end of her ar­
ticle where Ms. Blasi shows her 
true colors, as a card-carrying 
non-Welsh Sl)premacist. Was it 
really ever a satiric commen­
tary at all, or do we actually 
understand the author to say: 
"Some of my dorm-mates were 
annoyed at their (the anti­
Welsh N.D. men's) perfor­
mance. Frankly, I think it's great. .. They can express their feelings from many scopes at once." 
Once again, I can only take "scopes" to be an ethnic slur referring to the people of Wales. How much longer will Welsh and Welsh-American members of this community be made to ensure such hatred. I ask you, how would you feel, Ms. Blasi, if they actually had been singing: "Da-Da-Da­Walsh chicks suck!" 
Patrick Marty Morrissey Hall 
Feb. 9, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'True justice is not persuaded by the power of wealth.' 
D. Ricker 

Friday, February 16, 1990 
Viewpoint 
page 9 

South ~rica requires a plurai.~!Y,.E!Un~~!!l!~.~!~!challcngc 
By Oliver F. Williams 
There are many good argu­ments for U.S. companies with­drawing their operations from South Africa, but some of us are still not persuaded that those arguments should carry the day. Those arguing for withdrawal of all foreign busi­nesses have rendered an impor­tant service in the fight against apartheid in that they have 

raised the general level of South African political leader, awareness of the U.S. of the Helen Suzman, see no chance of evil of that system. The media success, in any event, with such attention given to a university a strategy. endowment selling the stock of Many argue for strategic firms with operations in South sanctions, sanctions that pro­Africa or to a city or state vide the crucial external pres­passing an ordinance forbid­sure but fall short of targeting ding purchases from such com­the destruction of the economy. panies have enabled many In the summer of 1985, I spent Americans to have a fairly good some time in South Africa re­idea of the injustice that per­searching a book and lived for meates the daily life of the non­a time with Archbishop Denis 
v. hites-80 percent of the pop­Hurley, a long-time outspoken tdation of South Africa. How foe of apartheid and the then­much these moves aid in the president of the Southern n~moval of apartheid laws­African Conference of Catholic the ultimate goal-remains to Bishops. Under Hurley's lead­be seen. ership the bishops of Southern 
Like most difficult problems, Africa produced a significant it may be that a plurality of document in 1986 offering strategies offers the best hope guidance with regard to eco­for the dismantling of nomic sanctions. apartheid. The disinvestment While clearly acknowledging lobby has placed all of its chips the preference for economic on the hope that the continued sanctions rather than violence withdrawal of foreign invest­as a tool to overcome ment will so weaken the econ­apartheid, the bishops have a omy that the South African key reservation: "... we need white leadership will come to to point out that, in our view, see the wisdom of negotiating a intensified pressure can only be new constitution for a multira­justified if applied in such a cial society. way as not to destroy the 
Yet many sympathetic South country's economy and to Africans. both black and white, reduce as far as possible any have counseled against such a additional suffering to the op­"scorched earth" policy. The pressed through job loss." untold human suffering and In many ways, the sanctions long time frame that such a of the Comprehensive Anti­strategy is likely to entail is Apartheid Act of 1986 meet this revolting and unacceptable to criteria. For example, the sanc­many. Some important anti­tion that bans the landing of apartheid activists. such as the the planes of South Africa Air-
U.S. should pressure Cuba 
Europe prove, but it appearsBy Kevin Smant that the process is a long one. In the Soviet Union, it took sev­The news out of Nicaragua enty years; in most of eastern these days is, not surprisingly, Europe, roughly forty; in China, not very good. fund~mental reform really 
A report of Sandinista elec­hasn't come yet. tion practices by the non-parti­Yet, when meditating on san Puebla Institute, headed by Nicaragua, one's thoughts Humberto Belli, suggests that continually return to Cuba. Commandante Ortega and Co. After all, it was Fidel Castro are up to their totalitarian who provided significant money tricks: denying the United and arms to the Sandinista Nicaraguan Opposition effective revolution, who has served as a use of TV and radio, appropri­model to the commandants, ating state employees and and who,. since 1979, has pro­equipment to help run the San­vided advisors and more arms dinista campaign, frustrating to aid the construction of the independent voter registration Sandinista totalist state. verification, preventing some It has been barely six weeks opposition voters from regis­since President Bush eliminated tering, and using violence and the problem of Manuel Noriega intimidation against UNO ac­through his invasion of tivists. In other words, the Panama. Mr. Noriega's threat Nicaraguan election, scheduled to the Panama Canal, to the for Feb. 25, is being contested U.S. personnel stationed there, on a far from level playing and his drug-running made his field. It appears Comrade removal consonant with Amer­Ortega has visited the Manuel ica's national interest; in addi­Noriega School of Democracy. tion, it re-established democ­
As I said, this should not sur­racy in Panama. I, of course, prise us. After all, the Sandin­supported the President's istas are Marxists, and its his­course of action, because if tory shows that Marxism al­nothing else it demonstrated ways seeks total control over his freedom from liberal non­government, society, and edu­interventionist shibboleths. cation. Elections are only to be Yet in the overall scheme of a show. a cover; they must ei­things, was Noriega America's ther be an outright sham, gravest threat in the region? through permitting only the Mr. Bush's critics are clearly Communist Party to run, or correct about the logical ten­must be stolen. Apparently the dencies of this position. If Sandinistas have chosen the we're going to invade an irri­second alternative, that of tant like Noriega, why not thievery. Indeed, change can eliminate other, more substan­occur, as the events of eastern tial regional problems? 
ways in the United States made a dramatic and important statement, signaling that we are on the side of the blacks in this struggle. Be assured that this statement does not go un­noticed in South Africa. 
Another strategic sanction is the part of the act that bans new U.S. investment in South Africa. Actually, there has been little new foreign investment in South Africa since July, 1985, when the major banks from Britain, Japan, Switzerland, West Germany, and the United States refused to renew short­
term loans because of contin­ued racial violence. Most ana­lysts believe that the sanction that has had noticeable effect on the economy is the decline of new loans. 
One thing is certain: the de­parture of American business from South Africa because of pressures exerted in the U.S. has usually resulted in new non-U.S. owners who are much less interested in solving social problems. The Investor Re­sponsibility Research Center, a Washington, D.C. research group respected for its objec­tivity, concluded a 1988 study with the following observation: "The most notable changes in corporate conduct following disinvestment have been the cutbacks in funding for com­munity development programs and organizations that chal­lenge apartheid policies, as well 

from more progressive organi­zations to those deemed politi­cally acceptable in South African terms." 
There is no doubt, in my view, that external pressure is re­quired to eliminate statutory racism in South Africa. One weapon providing pressure to eliminate apartheid that I be­lieve gets far too little credit is the whole effort of the U.S. companies still remaining in South Africa that fall under the Statement of Principles Pro­gram, the endeavor that was founded and guided by the Rev­erend Leo Sullivan and which continues today under a Na­tiona! Advisory Council. As a member of the National Advi­sory Council, I am not naive about the clout of the U. S. companies remaining in South Africa-only 60 companies re­main there, with over 180 hav­ing sold their holdings. 
The U.S. companies' role to­day in the fight against apartheid is what it has always been, to be a role model, a catalyst, spurring on the vastly more numerous domestic and non-U.S. foreign companies to some significant involvement in activities to overcome apartheid. Some would say the 
U.S. companies are lighting a candle rather than cursing the darkness, but I am more hope­ful. 
A recent report of the activi­ties of the U.S. companies in South Africa, compiled by Arthur D. Little, Inc., as a part of the requirements of the Statement of Principles for South Africa Program, notes that some 60 U.S. companies provided more that $40 million this past year to programs de­signed to eliminate apartheid. Some of these dollars went to assist in black educational en­deavors but many went to activities that most South Africans consider too risky the status quo and advance social change. 
For example, a number of the companies provided the funds and personnel to organize a black consumer boycott of the stores in Boksburg after the lo­cal city council tried to restore segregation in the downtown city park. Other companies di­rectly challenged white mer­chants in Johannesburg by as­sisting blacks in exercising their newly legislated freedom to do business in the downtown areas; this assistance was not only start-up funding but also training in business skills and entrepreneurship. 
Several companies used their influence and resources to se­cure the freedom of union lead­ers who were being detained by the police. Companies are also spending money to encourage non-racial education and medi­cal care, a direct confrontation to the current structures based on a racial hierarchy. Many companies are buying homes in the white areas and making it possible for blacks to assume ownership, thus challenging and eroding the Group Areas Act that zones land by race. 
The obvious objection to all of these examples of incremen­tal change is that the major apartheid laws are still in place. Yet it just might be that there is no quick fix for this evil. At least we ought to allow for this possibility and encour­age a plurality of strategies. Companies that are wiling to take up the challenge and op­pose the system deserve our support-or at least our toler­ation. 
Father Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., is Associate Provost of the Univ. ofNotre Dame. He is also a member of the National Advisory Council to the State­ment ofPrinciples Program. 

..  ·'-''""­"  
,i•  ;l.  -.....-....  
""  
.;,  ~.  

Why not indeed? Our prob­lem lies in believing that this emerging "Bush Doctrine" is wrong. But why think this way? Why not, for example, invade and depose Castro? By providing arms to Communists in Nicaragua in El Salvador, troops to Angola and Grenada, and (at one time) launching pads for Soviet nuclear mis­siles, he has abundantly proved his threat to America's national interest and the interests of the entire region. His transforming of Cuba into a Caribbean gulag, abundantly testified to by the 100,000 Cubans who fled when given a chance in 1980, and by the former Castro prisoner Ar­mando Valladares' haunting book "Against All Hope," pro­vides yet another justification. And the removal of Castro could be only a godsend to the 

would be powerless to stop us , in any event. 
So many people... a knock on the door, a gun in their ribs, and off to prison they go, many to never return. How many has Fidel Castro thus sentenced? It is time for him to feel the chill in his bones when the knock comes on his door. It need not be done tomorrow, Mr. Presi­dent; you have at least three more years in your term, and possibly seven. For once, let's have a policy. Let's not only proclaim our anti-totali­tarian sentiments; lets act on them. 
Open the door Mr. Castro. Or we'll kick it in. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in the history depart­ment. 
Cuban economy, mired in poverty and stagnation and hopelessly addicted to Moscow's foreign aid-which, it appears, will soon end. 
But won't this offend, and possibly harm the cause of, Mikhail Gorbachev? Why should it? If a majority of the present ruling elite in Moscow have really forsaken the key fundamentals of Marxism and recognize the need for a basic systemic overhaul, then it will indeed take place. If such a majority does not exist-if the hard-line ideological faction is still too strong-then nothing we do will matter. Further­more, if Gorbachev is really committed to democracy, free­dom, etc., then what does he care what happens to the old Stalinist, Castro? Most impor­tantly: right now the USSR 


Duke Tumatoe at Center Street: He likes his job in the Power Trio 
ducer John Fogerty. started his own band, the All­
SCOTT KAHNEY 

I Like My Job is a live album Star Frogs, and co-wrote many
accent writer 

of mostly rambunctious crowd­of the Frogs' humorous songs 


participation songs. Tracks like for which they are well-known.
hat is a "Tie You Up," "If I Hadn't Been He started out as a drummer,Duke High" and "More Love, More moved on to guitar and wasTum a­Money" get the Midwestern eventually forced to the micro­toe? 

crowd on their feet and singing. phone. His singing style soonThat 
was Parts of this album were actu­became a distinctive sound for ally recorded at Center Street. the Frogs. 

precisely the question which Duke Tumatoe has his roots In 1983, Duke moved to brought John Fogerty to Center in the south side of Chicago lis­Carmel, Ind., and formed the 
MUSIC 

Street Blues Cafe two years tening to Muddy Waters and Bo Power Trio, a rock 'n' roll band. 
Big Daddy Kinsey & The Kinsey Report, Center 
ago. While visiting his girlfriend Diddley. He started his profes­They soon became a Midwest 
in Mishawaka, he decided to sional career at Chicago clubs cult band due to their wild,
Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. $6 
find out what a band with such and school dances by playing unpredictable performances. In 
The World Tour, Irish music with John Kennedy and 
a strange name had to offer. rocked-up versions of "Bony 1987, the Power Trio's 250-city 
friends, Club 23. 

What Fogerty found was a fi­Maronie" and other rhythm and national tour brought them to esty, old, bald bluesman with a blues standards. Center Street and resulted in a 
The Freddy Jones Band, Bridget's, 10:30 p.m. 
Cliff Erickson, one-man entertainer, Alumni-Senior 
passion for his wine, his "There was nothing else I recording contract. 
Club, 9 p.m. 


women, and his perverse but ever wanted to do. I never even During their current tour, catchy sing-a-long tunes. The thought about a 'career.' " says which includes many college result of Fogerty's foray into Duke. towns and cities in the Midwest, Michiana was Duke's 1989 al­He joined the original edition they will be appearing in the 
MUSIC 

bum, I Like My Job. This is of REO Speedwagon when they East for the first time. Duke's first major recording were a horn-based R&B band Duke Tumatoe and the Power 
and was accomplished with the at the University of Illinois in Trio will be at Center Street help of musician-turned-pro-1968. 1\vo years later he tonight. 
Duke Tumatoe, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. 
The Freddy Jones Band, Bridget's, 10:30 p.m. The Boathouse Blues Band, Club 23, 9 p.m. The Crazy Jamaican, Alumni-Senior Club 
NOTRE DAME Friday "Talk Radio," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 
p.m. 

Saturday "The Abyss," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Born on the Fourth of July," 7 and 9:50p.m. "Driving Miss Daisy," 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Nightbreed," 7:30 and 9:30p.m.. "Steel Magnolias," 7:15 and 9:35p.m. "Loose Cannons," 7:40 and 9:40 p.m. "Madhouse," 7 and 9 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Glory," 7:15 and 9:55 p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:35p.m. 
r/J "Internal Affairs", 7 and 9:30 p.m. 

FORUM "Roger & Me," 7:40 and 9:40 p.m. "Hard To Kill," 7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Stella," 7 and 9:20p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "The War of the Roses", 7:15 and 9:45p.m. "Always", 7 and 9:30p.m. "Flashback", 7:20 and 9:40p.m. "Henry V," 2, 5:30 and 8:30 p.m. 
100 CENTER "Christmas Vacation", 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Tango & Cash", 7 and 9:00p.m. 
SCOTTSDALE "Madhouse," 7:45 and 9:45p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:30p.m. 

-~---------------------------------------------------------------------~~...-------------~------------------------------~~------------~----.. 
11 

Jke Tumatoe, an original member of REO Speedwagon, is currently 1 tour with Power Trio, the rock 'n' roll band he put together in 1983. 
Sugar's unique 'harp' comes to Chicago 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 
B 
lues harmonicist Sugar Blue will be appearing at Kingston Mines in Chicago today and Saturday, and it is sure to be a riveting show. 
Sugar has been hailed as a harmonica virtuoso, and previ­ous reviews have raved about Sugar's high-intensity perfor­mances and his incredible speed. City Pages says that Sugar "wails like a banshee, a jazzman, a tornado, and meta­morphoses like a phoenix at each and every gig." 
Sugar was born Richard Whiting in New York but moved to Paris, where he was discov­ered by the Rolling Stones. He made appearances on three Stones albums and is best known for his distinctive solo in "Miss You." He went on to record five of his own albums, one of which won a Grammy Award in 1985. 
For the past six years Sugar has been living and playing in Chicago, the home of modern blues and the host of the An­nual Blues Fest, though he is far better known in France. His claim to fame, says the Boslon Globe, is his "distinctive har­monica style that emphasizes horn-like phrasing and light­ning-like high-note runs." It has been said that Sugar is creating new limits for ·the blues harmonica in the same way that Jimi Hendrix created new limits for the guitar. 
Sugar himself said to the Boston Herald that "great players have always changed the tradition. If you try and maintain a tradition, you take a musician and turn him into a caretaker." 
Sugar sees blues as the root of rock, jazz and even coun­try/western, and he can play any of them. "The blues is the momma, and the momma can raise all her kids no matter what you call them." 
In concert, says City Pages, Sugar seems to have been "kissed by demon fire" and "could blow a band off a stage.. .just him, his harp (harmonica) and his demon." Due to the intensity of his playing, his vo­cals tend to take a back seat and pale in comparison, but that is no drawback to the 
overall show. International Musician and Recording World described Sugar as having "the habit of making it seem as if he's putting on his last, desper­ate performance," and his per­formances have been described as everything from furious to strange. 
It's been said that Sugar Blue can get many different things out of his "harp," and pure mu­sic is one of them. His show this weekend will be the perfect op­portunity to experience his magic for yourself. Kingston Mines is located on the near north side of Chicago at 2548 Halsted near the corner of Belmont. 
.-------~~..~----..--~------------------~----------~---------.--.---------~------------------~-----------------------~----­
"' 

Friday, February 16, 1990
The Observer
a e 12 

JP Weekend: The Etnerald City's better attractions 
I'd like to ask the special exotic hors d'oeuvre that you guests on campus: "In addition don't have to sample. to the JP Weekend, what reason Notre Dame is not Disney­do you have for being at Notre land, with fantasies on tap, nor Dame? You're here, of course, is it the enchanted island of to enjoy the speeches, the Caliban's dream. Notre Dame is bonding, the meals, and the certainly not Lourdes, 
where 
Father Robert Griffin 
letters to c lonely God 
praying, but is there some wishful thinking going on in your mind? Are there special graces you stand in need of? Does your religious faith cry out to be freshened? Are there sacraments you have neglected and would like now to receive again? Are you spiritually worn out from living a long time without the peace of Christ?" 
Maybe I should have a cup of hemlock poured down my throat for impertinence, but I don't mind telling you that I'd be surprised if there were not a few parents who would like to bP treated as though they were here for a retreat. 
The JP Weekend is not planned as a rPvival or as a parish mission, nor should it be. "They are not long, the days of wine and roses." 'Metanoia' isn't part of the package, which features love, laughter, and weeping, with the Mass as a showcasP for this university at prayer. Yet, as a love feast where God is everywhere, it should be part of our happiness to remembPr that faith experi­ences come with the territory; and when we're gathered for 'agape,' grace should be made conspicuously available, like an cripples who have been granted miracles leave their crutches behind them. However, if you're a true believer, this campus up­stages all those Marian shrines. As Father Hesburgh once told us, Notre Dame is a place like Nazareth and Ephesus. where the Mother of Jesus and our mother makes her home, and I for one share Hesburgh's very Catholic faith. 
The Catholic churches in America have been compared to the "bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds sang." I've mPt Catholics coming in from the cold who haunt the hall chapPls on football weekends, looking for a priest to talk to. from whom they sometimes ask the mercy of an absolution and a restoration of innocence lost, strayed. or stolen (or so they feel) since Hector was a pup. 
At Medjugorje, I am told, confessionals have been set up in the parking lots to accom­modate the pilgrims. On Satur­days in autumn, the thundering hordes don't come to Notre Dame as pilgrims, but as foot­ball fans. If very many of them volunteered themselves as peni­tents, asking for their confes­sions to be heard, they'd have to go to the stadium to find the priests, who are also fans, watching the game. In the parking lots or in the stadium, it isn't unusual to find a Holy Cross priest going about his Father's business on a football Saturday. 

Notre Dame is one of the principal watering-holes of the Catholic religion. and it's part of the myth that any priest worth his salt is always on duty. Out of respect for the myth, priests tend to go far be­yond the call of duty in re­sponding to all who present themselves as sheep in need of a shepherd. Would 'it be inap­propriate or sentimental to suggest that the students host­ing the junior parents be on the alert to serve their guests as extraordinary ministers of the Lord, who is our shepherd? 
The sweat and blood of Notre Dame's faithful servants are in the bricks of the buildings, dat­ing back to the founder. Father Sorin came to this young coun­try to begin a school in the wilderness that's as important to America as the medieval cathPdrals were to Europe. The prevailing climate of hope, which is like our daily bread. may be as refreshing to a tired Christian as the mornings in Eden. 
We trust that our fathers and mothers are on God's side al­ways. for we are beneficiaries of their kindness, but never their judges. Yet there's no law that says kindness can't be a moveable feast. The childrPn can be like parents to the grownups, leading them to the Grotto to light the tall candles. as a substitute for cursing the darkness, and inspiring them to believe that more things are wrought by prayer than this battered world dreams of. Parents should be encouraged to knock on any door that the God-squad uses, for it could lead them to Our Lady, and not the tiger wearing a rector's face. Parents have nothing to fear but fear itself. and this is another lesson the students should teach them. 
Maybe the students are the ones needing to get their act together. They need to find out there's more to this Emerald City of Oz than a burnt-out laundry, the de Bartolo mil­lions, and the football teams which won all the games except the game that counted. If a lad were to look at the Mass through the eyes of the Catholic couple he walked in with under duress, he might understand why the fools, who come to scoff. remain to pray. 
Notre Dame is a Frenchman's dream which would never have come true if it weren't for the luck of the Irish, and thP PoiPs, Italians, and an occasional German, standing back to bark. Then~·s magic in the weaw of the fabric that can haunt you like thP Holy Ghost sanrtif'ying a city to makP it holy. If you'rp not in sympathy with thP magic. howPvPr, it can pain you likP darkness and.leaw you fpeling damned from hPrP to PtPrnity, as thP brooding Ct>lt is quirk to lind out. Coming hPrP, as to Catholic Home, you ~an find your religion or lose it. MaybP that's a sPcrPt an old llolv Cross priest should take to his grave. for truth like that can bP used to hurt NotrP DamP's 
E N G I N E E R I N G , C 0 M P U T E R S C I E N C E & L I B E R A L ~·A R T S 
11The quality of your life is in direct proportion to your commitment to excellence11 -Vince Lombardi 
Catholic faith like a two-edged sword. Notre Dame can be a dangerous place at which to hold a winter carnival, but why should students know that until later. when thPir panmts tell 
them the facts of life? 

Them has always been morP to the JP Weekend than the food, the drinks, the network­ing and the sweet talk. So move over, DomPrs! Make room for the leprPchauns. Who elsP are the leprechauns, according to the Book of Kells, but the fallen angels searching for salvation? Would the students in charge of the long weekPnd now upon us be surprised to learn that the samP thing may bP true of the nearest and dmtrest among their kinfolk'? 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend 
dead. 
Doo't cirM: drunk. 

Reader's Dtgesl 
G R A D U AT E S 

If we are interested in talking to Computer Science, Engineering and Liberal Arts graduates, why are we quoting a sports hero? 
Wouldn't it be better to borrow a few words from Einstein, Sagan, Bell, Proust, Freud, Courvoiser ... 
We don't happen to think so. 
The message we want to get across relates to drive, energy, push and yes, even sweat. 
We think the above qualities have a lot to do with success in the classroom, on the field and in the business world. 
So if you are the kind of person who runs harder and reaches higher than most people ... 
Let's explore career opportunities together. Join us at the: 
PANSOPHIC SYSTEMS, INCORPORATED CAREER PRESENTATION Monday, February 26, 1990 7:00pm Upper Lounge, University Club 
WE'LL EXPLORE CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: 
Software Development Software Technical Support Marketing/Sales Support 
Pansophic Systems, Incorporated is one of the world's largest independent software companies. Headquartered in Illinois, we have offices across America and in 35 countries abroad. We are a major player in "hot" technical areas including departmental computing, portability and standards driven software. If you have superior academic credentials and a desire to spend most of your time in the winners circle ... Run over and see us. We are signing up for interviews now. Even if you have not secured an interview by the presentation 
date, feel free to stop by. We'll try to work you into our schedule. 
PANSOPHIC 
Equal Opportunity Employers, M/FN/H
Quality Software Worldwide 
proclaimed experts, are money promote the improvement or all Jealousy could also stem than Georgetown basketball, and reputation...clout, if you aspects of college football, not from the fact that no other but football as a sport is an
CFA 
will. It seems as if the other just television. football team in the country event, while basketball is a continued from page 20· schools are as concerned with could have made the deal. No game. They're apples and or­likely. I can't imagine that peo­making a buck as Notre Dame Perhaps the problem is that one has the national audience, anges. ple wiH watch less college foot­is. Otherwise, why not be satis­Notre Dame is getting so much no one has the reestablished So thanks, Kansas, for ball because Notre Dame is on fied with assured additional more money than anyone else. success, the image, or the tra­putting the Fighting Irish in NBC. exposure, and not worry about Jealousy rearing its ugly head. dition. No one had Knute, their place. Thank you for 
The College Football Notre Dame? Notre Dame is rich enough al­Leahy, Ara, Devine and now hurting your oranges by keep­Association says its TV deal ready, the critics say. Notre Lou. Sorry, Kansas, Notre ing them away from Notre with ABC and ESPN would have Notre Dame has clout, says Dame has the talent, the facili­Dame didn't mean to be so in­given Notre Dame plenty of the the CFA. Well, the University ties, and the personnel. But like teresting. national coverage it wanted. So hasn't left, or even been kicked almost every other major foot­
football programs like Kansas out, of the CFA. Whatever addi­ball university, Notre Dame has The closest anyone could students, and Notre Dame has come may be in basketball,
(they do have football there, tional influence Notre Dame right?) and everyone else in the gives the CFA is still there in all tuition rising faster than infla­where a few teams 
CFA ought to be pretty happy. aspects but television. Granteq, tion. An additional $23 million (Georgetown, maybe Duke, With Notre Dame out of the television was the most visible into the financial -aid coffer Kentucky and Prairie View way, think of how much more facet of the CFA, but, ideally, would make any school worth A&M) have a broad enough na­exposure the CFA deal will give there is more to the association its weight in FAF forms do a tional base to try to go it alone. the other 63 teams. than multi-million dollar deals. lot worse than sign an televi­But I doubt it. It's not that The problems, say the self-The CFA was established to sion contract. Notre Dame football is better 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
SPRING BREAKSubway Sandwiches Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x Part time driver for delivery to ND­233-6582

\ NOT\CES 
DAYTONA Good wage, car allowance, tips. HELP! I need 2 GA's tor SMC campuses only. 
TYPING AVAILABLE $139 rm only $229 w. trans.
277-7744 GEORGIA TECH. Kevin x163B
287-4082 
high quality accommadations Summer job interviews-Average 
I need some Georgia Tech tickets earnings $3,400. University Attention Class of 93' call Todd 1-B00-265-1799
for my little brothers ..Piease call Directories, the nation's largest The FCC is sponsoring aT-shirt 
Kelly at •4985 publisher of campus telephone design contest. Present entries to 
your FCC dorm rep. 
Need a ride to Columbus this directories, hires over 200 college 

Dad wants to see a good b-ball students for their summer salesPrize: $10.00 in quarters and one weekend, 2/16-211 B
team; Missouri! He's willing to payprogram. Top earnings $5,000­free T-shirt. Deadline: Next 
mucho to those who will sell 2GA's $8,000. Gain valuable experience Wed,21. 
call MikeatX1114

and 2st tix. Call Mike @3646 in advertising, sales and public?? Call Joe Wilson 
X1802 

relations selling yellow page Dan Walter WVFI wants to know: How
PERSONALS

advertising for your campus X1061 
much do you like sweets? available in other university Looking for a fraternity, sorority of markets. Expense paid training student organization that would SUGARCUBES, perhaps? 
telephone directory. Positions also 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
************************ Shipping, Copies, Cards. 
program in Chapel Hill, NC. like to make $500-$1000 for a one 
How about an evening in

Looking for enthusiastic, goal­week on-campus marketing
Laser Quality For Chicago
oriented students tor challenging, project. Must be organized and
Papers, Reports. Resumes, Etc. 
well-paying summer job. hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at with the Sugarcubes???
277-MAIL 
Watch for details soon. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
Internships may be available. (BOO) 592-2121. 
WVFIAM640 

YOU WANT A GREAT JOB... 
****** *** *********'******

20. Sign up at the Career & Parrot Heads Forever !I!
Alumni Senior Club applications for Placement Services. 
bartenders and managers now PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CANavailable in Student Activities PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, Ellen Spiering,Office. 
FOR RENT 
LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY!!! EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF (But please remember to duck WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. 

4 Bdrm home for rent next time)
ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL,REASONABLE PRICES. 

1122 Blyler Place PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL
289-1743. 
(616)695-3786 
COLLECT 513-891-1583. HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 

For a hot tip on where ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room Need Ride to or near Pitt 211 5-16 MIKENEAD!!! 
to find a good time in house near campus. Quiet, or any wknd $$ JoAnne 1270 T. O'JUANAS is calling you back Call 647-0900 ext 1740 
comfortable. Furnished or un­for a repeat performance! St. Mary's Campus Events 
furnished. Considerate, non­(ha ha hal 
Ho~ine 

smoker a must. $225/mo. Call Windy City
232-9952. LLOYD COCHRAN
Windy City LLOYD COCHRANWindy City

LOST/FOUND 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT LLOYD COCHRAN
Cost--$10.00 

SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Happy 21st Birthday!! Hope thing
Your ticket to ChicagoHELP...IIost a sapphire/diamond don't get TOO UGLY for you thisLaFortune Information Deskring! High Sentimental 3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM· weekend ... good luck!

value'..reward CAMPUS. 234-1714. -the chicks from PW 
Call Debbie 2935 Want to work for Student Activities 
Snow White,next year? Get a JOB This is our special day. Happy

FOR SALE 
APPLICATION at the Information LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! 

anniversary, and happy Valentines 

Desk. Jobs open in GAMES ATIENTION FEMALEAn antique ring with a Day.
ROOM, INFORMATION DESK, TRAVELERS 1!111!1!!!!!!!
green square stone; lost on Feb. 
ILOVEYOUIII

BUILDING MANAGER, SOUND FOR SALE: Spring Break plane14 possibly in south dining hall. 
r 
TECHNICIAN, OFFICE ticket to Ft. Lauderdale.
Great sentimental value. 
Your PrinceASSISTANTS, and STEPANREWARD! 

Best Offer call Molly at MANAGERS.
Call Deb at x3B29 234-5410 ? ? NEED TO MAKE COPIES ? ? 
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE 
Tired of being your 

NEC 54" projection TV THE COPY SHOP in LaFortuneWITH A PAIR OF GLASSES 
own worst critic? 

PERFECT FOR DORMS 
Sit Copies & open on weekends Call NO Dept. of Comm. &Theatre(GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND 
If so, join our group

IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239­
focusing on modifying

239-70545791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. 
counter-productive self criticism. 
"SARAH" "SARAH" "SARAH"FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 

[ ncms
123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL 
The 1st of six meetings will

thanks for the flower NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS X409B TO CLAIM. 
i'd love to go to dinner...give 
begin on February 20th, and 
continue through April3rd. 

Lost at North Dining Hall: Blue GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3B53 meacall ERIC I 
We will meet from 

backpack w/ grey suede bottom 'MR. and MRS. VILLALOBOS' 
7:00-9:00 p.m.

containing 2 red notebooks. If Help I I need 2 student tickets and Welcome to ND! Are you ready forfound, PLEASE call Mike x4057. oneGA for the Georgia Tech 
in room 316 at the 
an incredibly exciting andgame. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 

University Counseling 
memorable weekend? Me too.

Found: Men's ring outside 
Center.
Hope you both have a blast. I'm so 
psyched you're here. I love you. 

South Dining Hall. Call David WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO ND­
x.3233 MIZZOU GAME ON MARCH 3. 
For more information, 
--Seeta

CALl COLLECT 314-449-7618 
please contact BRYAN or

EVENINGS.
WANTED 
AN1 OINELL at 239-7336. 

4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs tor 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY HELP! NEED RIDER/DRIVER 
sale.272-6306 DIANE! DO YOU SIT AROUNDTO GET TRUCK TO NYINJ AREA. 

AND CREATE SUCH PROFOUNDWE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! 

WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN CALL COLLEEN 283-2962. SUNSHINE AND MARY THOUGHTS?
MAHONEY LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII 
GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYIJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del TO THE FIGHTIN' F-GS OF 814Mar, CA 92625. $NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ 
llll.ll.llllllll.l\lllll\11.1\llllll.l\.llllliii.AIIIII\I\I\.1\IIIIII.II.IIIII\11 

call Jim x1646 
1111.11.11111111.1\1111. 

ND SPORTS PICTURES WANTED P.S GO 'NISES, ROLL ON P.E.
Will pay good money for Football, INTERHALL BASKETBALL!
Basketball pictures 
HEY NOW!! I NEED DEAD TIX
call Tom@ 2185 FOR LANDOVER,MD SHOWS (SPRING BREAK) MARY 2593808 
NEEDED: A ride to Ball State any Still haven't satisfied that burning weekend x1938 OH BOY DO I NEED MISSOURI 
desire to be the life of the party?BASKETBALL TICKETS! CALL 
Do it at Theodore's and get paid X3601. 
BIG BUCKS. 

French Graduate Student 
••••••••••••*•••••••••••Desparatel 
IRISH MUSIC THE WORLD TOURNEEDS living accomodations 

y need two Missouri B-ball tickets. 
w John Kennedy and whoever near campus. Call Didier Call Kristen at #2670 else shows up. Fridaydays 239-7596 CLUB23 

SUMMER JOBS COUNSELORS-BOYS CAMP, W.MASS./GifiLS CAMP. W.INE. TOP SALARY, FN1801LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST LOVE KIOS AND HAVE SKILLIN ONE OF THE FOllOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY. ARTS&CRAFTS, BASEBALL. BASKETBALL,BICYCLING. CHEERLEADING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF. GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK, KARATE LACROSSE, NATURE, NURSES. PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, RADIO, ROCKETRY, ROPES, SAILBOARDING SAILING, SCUBA. SOCCER, TENNIS, TRACK. W.S.L, WATERSKI, WEIGHTS, WOOO. STOP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD FROM 11:OOAM-6:00PM IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT UNION, DOOLEY ROOM (N37 
READ EXODUS 22:18 READ EXODUS 22:1 8 READ EXODUS 22:1 B 
Kevin McShane and Dan, 
LOST Small, black leather purse with the word "EXPRESS" on it. 
Lost Tues. 216. No money, but other valuable items inside. I can identify it from 20 feet and I want it back. Return it now and no questions will be asked, otherwise... #4145 

To my two favorite Valentines (to· each other, that is). Happy Valentine's Day a little late. Bridget's was fun, too bad you bombed out on the "Love Analyzer" Dan. Better luck next time! Kev, glad I finally met you, stop by sometime--we're practically related you know. Later guys! 
Love, 
Jeanne 
P.S. Bet you thought I wouldn't go through with this. 

Stevey Megargee, Thanx for the Valentine. It was my only one and it kept me from falling into the slumps of depression. See you Monday! Happy late 
PRAYER TO THE 
HOLYSPffiiT Holy Spirit, You who makes me see everything and shows me the way to reach my ideal. You who gives me the divine gift to rorgive and forget the wrong that is done to me. And You who are in all lhe instance of my life with me. I, in this short dialogue, want to thank You for everything and confirm once more that I never want to be separated from You no matter how great the material desires may be. I want to be with You and my loved ones in Your perpetual glory. Amen. Thank You for Your love towards me and my loved ones. 
Person must pray this 3 consecutive days without asking your request. Arter the third day your wish will be granted, no matter how difficult it may be. Then, promise to publish this dialogue as soon as your favor has been granted. 
Valentine's Day! Love, Me 

P.S. I know who you really want to be your Valentine!!!!! 
hi ag CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 Featuring up & coming bands. Don1 miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
'MATIHEW DALE CRAMER' 
Happy 22nd Birthday! You only deserve the best! I love you!!! Tache 
St. Jude, please hear my prayer. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) 
ROME(JUNE17-JULY16) 
TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT., FR., 
SWITZ., GER., ENG., & ITALY. 
COURSES IN ART, BIO., BUEC, 
HIST., IT., SOC. 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
FEB. 19 AT 7:30 P.M. CARROLL 
HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS 
STUDENTS, TEACHERS,& 
PIZZA. FOR MORE 
INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK 
AT 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 

MJG, LIFE IS TOO SHORT FOR ME NOT TO TELL YOU HOW I FEEL, I LOVE YOU -I ALWAYS HAVE AND ALWAYS WILL. 
MMM 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHIL Believe it or not, you have survived to face yet another major holiday with mel!! Thanks for your patience and support, have a happy v-day honey, 
Love, 
Molly 
• new LAMINATING new • at The Copy Shop in LaFortune 
Hey Room440 
Can't you get through V-Day w/o shots and slugging? You kraziesl We love ya anyway! 
BUTIER BUTIER ILOVEBUTIER 
Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!! I 
Love your busy bees! 
ADOPTION 
Physician and wile, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities: We will pay medical and legal expenses. 
Please call collect for a recorded 
message. (219) 625-4205. 
SOPHOMORES !!! 
Are you ready for Advanced 
Registration on March 30th ? 
Have you selected your 
major? 
If you answered no, consider 
registering for the CAREER/ 
MAJOR DECISION MAKING 
WORKSHOP starting the week 
of February 19th at the 
University Counseling Center. 
Call 239-7336 to register or 
for more information. 

FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood,dishwasher 

SE:NIOHS...DON'T FORGET SENIOR FORMAL BID SALES ARE ONLY 12 DAYS AWAY! 
Pat B, Scott K, Dave N, John M; Thanks for a great time Sat. nite at the dance & that "falllily establishment!" We need to get together soon to finish off the last case. You guys are really great but "I can't beleive we broke the l----ing lamp!!" LOVE, Mary Pat, Nancy, Alison, Monica 
DENBEAR, 
Of all the sweet things in this world, nothjng is sweeter nor more perfect than your love. I LUV U ! 
4ever yours. TWINKlE 


.-----~----~------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
Friday, February 16, 1990

page 14 The Observer 
Holy Cross football players pig out in Hog Bowl victory 
Special to The Observer "All the teams had a great time. and we were glad to help Holy Cross Hall sponsored a out homeless children," said campus-wide section flag foot­Holy Cross president Pete ball tournament to benefit the "Sluggo" LaFleur. "The tour­homeless last weekend, and nament really showcased some then came away as the winner of the best talent on campus. of the event. Some of those guys were really 
In the first "Hog Bowl," unstoppable." named after the Holy Cross The tournament ran two mascot, the host dorm defeated days. with the first round being Morrissey 3-2 last Sunday at played Saturday and the re­Holy Cross Field and captured mainder of the event occurring a $100 gift certificate to a se­Sunday. lected restaurant. Teams were In the quarterfinals, Keenan awarded one point for each beat Stanford 3-1, Holy Cross touchdown they scored. edged Zahm 3-2 in overtime, 
The tournament, which in­Cavanaugh tripped St. Ed's 5-2 cluded every men's dorm, and Morrissey whipped a Grace raised $420 for a local home­team 5-1. less center. The monies were Holy Cross defeated Keenan directed to the families of eight 3-2 and Morrissey beat children who stayed at the cen­Cavanaugh 3-1 in the semifi­ter. nals. 
Notre Dame wrestlers set to battle upstart Ohio U. team 
Special to the Observer Two Irish wrestlers rated in the top 12 in the nation by the same publication. Pat Boyd is 
Ohio University is the next rankPd third at 142 pounds. opponent on the schedule for and Andy Hadenhaugh is Pighth the Notre DamP wrestling at 11 H pounds. team. which currently stands 5-Tlw Irish fan~ Ohio Saturday 7 on the season. at tlw Joyce ACC. 
Ohio com~s into the Joyce "Tlwy'll he a typical hard­ACC a big underdog, having nosed group of wrl'stll'rs," been beaten by the Irish 44-0 McCann said. "and I anticipate last season in Athens, Ohio. tlwm to be mentally tough." 
"I know Ohio will comP in ••• here ready to wrestle," Irish head eoach Fran McCann said. MeCann will be inductf'd into "In know their eoaeh really well the NAIA llall of Fanw of and h~'ll have his team pre­February 2H. pared. While coaching at NAIA 
Ohio is coached by llarry school Winona State. McCann llouska. placed his team in the NAIA top 
Notre Dame is ranked 24th in twPnty six limns in nine years. this week's Amateur Wrestling He coached 14 NAIA all­News rankings. Last week they Americans and 3 NCAA all­were unrankf'd. Americans. 


series against the Huskies. The Sophomore center Jeff 
Madson (Minnetonka) and .................................................. 
games will begin on Friday and Saterdalen leads St. Cloud in Kuehl (Edina) head the list of Saturday night at 7:05 South scoring with 19 goals and 30 
Minnesotans on the Notre 


Q •Qj
Bend time. assists. Sophomore right wing 
Dame roster. Schafer, a native 
Tim Hanus (21 G, 21 A) is also 

Senior
of Minneapolis, will be return­

The Irish met the Huskies a threat. Sophomore Mike ing to familiar territory as well. earlier this season for a two­O'Hara (3.77 GAA) handles the 
Formal
game series at the Joyce ACC. 
~NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN1

Coach Hie Schafer's Notre 
•

Dame squad won the first game ~ ~ 
CD

1990 
3-2, but then was manhandled 
~ ®@001001®.~ ND-SMC ~ 

by the bigger, stronger St. Cloud team in an 8-2 defeat. 
Bid Sales
~ lo)\IS)fo\®~~001® STUDENTS ~ 
.G

Notre Dame will count on its 
~ IJ\fll~ 17th Annual Program ~ 

top line of Dave Bankoske (26 G, 22 A), Tim Kuehl (13 G. 26 ~ ~ A), and Lou Zadra (13 G. 18 A) 
~ London Rome ~ 

for scoring punch. Senior Lance 
Madson (4.27 GAA, .877 save ~ May 23-June 22 June 17-July 16 ~ 
28 -ND Lafortune 6-9pm percentage) will start in goal ~ Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, ~ 
March 1-SMC LeMans 6-9pm
for the Irish. 
~ Scotland, and France Germany, and ~ 

The Irish will need to continue 
~ Switzerland ~ 

their recent trend of pro­
*Bid price: $75 per couple
~ * lnfonnatlonal Meeting ~ 

ficiency on the special teams if 
*Tux fittings
~ : come visit with last years students and ~ powerful Huskies. Last weekend ~ * Feb. 19, 7:30pm ~ 
they are going to upset the 
*Flower orders 
the Irish converted six out of ~ : teachers over refreshments and pizza. ~ seven power play opportunities 
*Room arrangements
~ * Caroll Hall, SMC ~ 

and killed off 10 out of 13 
*Dinner seating-5 couples per table
penalties in a two-game sweep 
~ Courses offered in ~ 
of Lake Forest. 
~ ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, ~ 

St. Cloud brings a deceiving 12-18-2 record into this week­~ HISTORY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY For more Info, contact ~ 
Wonderful Tonight...
end's series with the Irish. The ~ and SOCIOLOGY Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 ~ Huskies have already defeated ~ Passport pies available ~ Wisconsin and Northern 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .................................................. 
i\P Photo Olden Polynice and Xavier McDaniel of the Seattle Supersonics swarmed all over the New Jersey Nets last in a 103-92 victory. 
~-----------------------------------------------------J 
Irish hockey faces tough task vs. St. Cloud 
Special to the Observer Michigan among others and are St. Cloud goaltending chores. preparing to join the highly re­The game will be a homecom­Tho Notre Dame hockey team spected WCHA conference next ing of sorts for many Irish travels to St. Cloud State in season. players, as 11 of them hail Minnesota for a two-game from Minnesota. Co-captains 
Friday-Domesticated
• 
Live: Cliff Erickson 
+ Sat.-Baseball Ni~ht
+Live: "Crazy ]amatcan" : Reggae
• 


Wildcats edge LSU, 100-95; Michigan slips past Gophers 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP} ­Richie Farmer sank six free throws in the final 1:05 as Kentucky overcame Chris Jackson's 41 points to upset No. 9 Louisiana State 100-95 in a Southeastern Conference game Thursday night. 
The victory, the fourth in a row for the Wildcats (13-10 and 9-5 in the SEC), snapped LSU's seven-game winning streak and avenged a Jan. 13 loss to the Tigers that was marred by a confrontation be­tween the two coaches. 
The Tigers trailed 87-70, but rallied behind Jackson, whose 
3-pointer capped  a  22-7  run  
that  cut  the  deficit  to  94-92  
with 1:12 to play.  

But Farmer hit both ends of a 1-and-1 after being fouled by Maurice Williamson, then made two more foul shots 17 seconds later to give Kentucky a 98-92 edge. 
Jackson hit his seventh 3­pointer to cut the margin to 98­95 with 41 seconds to go. But Kentucky then worked 33 sec­onds off the clock before Jackson fouled Farmer, who calmly made both free throws for the final margin. 
Derrick Miller led Kentucky with 29 points, followed by Deron Feldhaus with 24, Sean Woods 12, Reggie Hanson 11 and Farmer 10. 
Michigan 77'­
Minnesota 7.1 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Rumeal Robinson scored a career-high 33 points as fifth-ranked Michigan beat No. 17 Minnesota 77-73 Thursday night, snapping the Gophers' 14-game home winning streak. 
Robinson, a senior guard, 
Freshmen-join the sophomores 
JPW ESCAPE Chicago February 17-18 
Transportation Lodging Dinner at Diana's Greek Restaurant Ticket to Second City Time to Shop and Visit Museums 
kets on sale next to the lnformati Desk in Lafortune 
had tied his career high of 29 points on Sunday against Illinois. His 33 points also was a Michigan high for this sea­son, topping the 32 scored by Sean Higgins against Duke. 
Michigan (19-4 overall, 9-3 in the Big Ten) moved into a sec­ond-place tie with Michigan State in the conference, a half game behind Purdue. Minnesota (16-6, 7-5) dropped to fifth place in the league. 
It was the first home loss of the season for Minnesota, which has won 26 of its last 28 games at Williams Arena. 
Terry Mills scored 24 points for Michigan, which never trailed. 
With Michigan leading 53-50. Robinson made a layup and a 3-point shot and Mills made two short jumpers to give the Wolverines a 12-point lead with 
10:10 left. 
But Minnesota then went on a 16-7 run to cut the lead to three points. 
Melvin Newbern completed a three-point play to make it 75­73 with 1:21 left. but Robinson and Tony Tolbert each hit a free throw in the last 43 sec­onds to put the game out of reach. 
Geor~a Tech 83,
Fordham 78 

NEW YORK (AP) -Kenny Anderson had 19 points and 13 assists in his New York home­coming and No. 13 Georgia Tech beat Fordham 83-78 for its sixth straight victory. 
Anderson, a New York native who holds the state high school scoring record with 2,621 points, put on an impressive show at Madison Square Garden in front of a crowd 
NOMINATED FOR 3 ACADEMY AWARDS BEST ACTOR Kenneth Branagh and BEST DIRECTOR 
"1WO THUMBS UP!" 
-SISKEL & EBERT 
"THE BEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR!'' 
-Bob Mondello, NATIONAL PUBUC RADIO 

ABOLD NEW FILM BY KENNETII BRANAGH 
1llE SAMUEL GOIDWYN COMPANY il8d II£NAIS'I\Na IIDIS pic In iiSIOdallon wilb lhr B8C Jli<'C'II HEN1lY V. Adlpal from lhr ploy bf WIIlJAM SH.Wlii'Wl£ 
Starring KENNETH BRANAGH • PAUL SCOFIElD • DEREKJACOBI • IAN HOLM EMMA TIIOMPSON • ALEC MCCOWEN •JUDI DENQI • OIIUSTIAN BAI£ 
Muoic ~bfPAnKX DOYLE l'<lbmcd bf art OF ll1llllNGHAM SYIO'ItONY OlOIESTIA Cooob:tcd bf SIIION IATIU -ProWcaDAVIDPAIF!TT ~ProWcamPI!ENEVANS -.adbfiii!JO:SILWIAN . [))[==.) Dirta<d bf KINNrniiiiANAGH 
which cheered his every move. 
The Yellow Jackets (17 -4) have not lost outside the Atlantic Coast Conference and have a chance to finish 12-0 out of the league with a victory over Notre Dame later this 
month. · 
But Georgia Tech had a lot of trouble with Fordham (14-10), trailing 50-46 at halftime. The Yellow Jackets scored the first six points of the second half to take a two-point lead, but Fordham still led 62-58 with 
13:37 to play. Georgia Tech then went on a 21-5 run to put the game away. 
Anderson either scored or was credited with an assist on Georgia Tech's first 16 points of the second half and it was his full-court passing that started the Yellow Jackets' fast break, which made all the dif­ference in the game. 
Louisville 97~ 
VirginiaTech 18 
BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) LaBradford Smith fueled a first-half surge that helped No. 18 Louisville continue its domi­nation of Virginia Tech with a 97-78 Metro Conference victory over the Hokies on Thursday night. 
Six players scored in double figures for Louisville (19-5, 9­1), which began a stretch in which six of its last seven games are on the road. 
Virginia Tech's Bimbo Coles, bothered by the flu and held to just two points in the Hokies' 96-69 loss at Louisville earlier this month, had a game-high 20 on Thursday. But it was not enough to keep Virginia Tech (10-15, 2-7) from losing to Louisville for the 11th consecu­
continued from page 20 
they shot a lot of threes," McGraw said, "but we really felt we needed to contain their inside game. And it worked." 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, shot 59% and had five players in double digits. Margaret Nowlin contributed 21 points inside and pulled down a team-leading 14 re­bounds. While Nowlin had a double-double on the night, teammate Sara Liebscher pro­duced a triple-double night with her 17 points, 12 boards and 10 assists. Guard Karen Robinson, playing on a 

Chinese-Americ•n Restaurant & 
(i...r;#'"'im. C R £AT 

Cocktail Loun&e Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine
'YALL 

r--=-~-., Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon. -Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. ·Sat. 11 :30 a.m. to 11 p.m. ~----~ Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. xie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's lnnl 
LOVE .9J9.,[1J MISS 
yo11­


AP Photo Rumeal Robinson and the Michigan Wolverines soared to a 77-73 triumph over the Minnesota Gophers in Big Ten action last night. 
tive time. 
The Cardinals were leading 27-25 with 5:30 left in the first half when Tony Kimbro's free throw began a 10-2 run. Smith had six points, one steal and an assist in the surge as Louisville moved to a 37-27 edge with 
3:56 left. Virginia Tech scored the last five points of the half to trim the deficit to 47-40 and cut it to 49-43 on a 3-point shot by Coles two minutes into the sec­ond half. 


But the taller Cardinals began to take charge inside, scoring the next 12 points, all on layups and dunks. 
"The team was really excited for her because she works so hard in practice and usually doesn't see that much playing time," commented McGraw. 
Fitzgerald named a couple of factors that contributed to her explosion. 
"I've definitely been more ag­gressive in practice recently," Fitzgerald said. "Plus coach has me playing forward and is 
letting me shoot from where I want." 
Penny Kroll scored 12 to lead 
the Titans. The Irish blowout of 
yet another MCC foe should 
help Notre Dame's efforts to 
attain an invitation to the 
NCAA tournament. While the 
Irish have been dominating the 
conference with their 12-0 
record, they need to continue 
this level of play to be consid­
ered by the selection committee. 
"We need to continue to win 
by these margins," explained 
McGraw. "When we only win by 
12 it hurts us. But we've played 
Temple, UCLA and Old 
Dominion, so we know we can 
compete with the really good 
teams." 
Notre Dame's dominatioi?-of its MCC opponents calls II?-to question the value of the Irish remaining in a league th.at may not be the most challengmg. 
"I'd like to think we're the best in the conference, espe­cially if we go 18-0. But then you have games like ours against Butler when we lost Karen Robinson and had a lot of trouble," said McGraw refer­ring to Tuesday's 59-46 victory over the Bulldogs. "As for what conference we're in, that's not my decision." 
McGraw's team, its 49.1% shooting ranked ilinth nation­ally. resumes action next Tuesday at St. Louis. 



By BARBARA'MORAN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team will take a tour of the Lone Star State this week­end, facing the University of Texas, Texas A&M, and Texas San Antonio in three matches beginning today. 
The University of Texas, Notre Dame's first opponent, promises to be the toughest foe of the weekend. Not only are the Longhorns ranked ninth in the nation, but their top dou­bles seed (ranked 11th nation­ally) is eoming off an impres­sive victory at the National Indoor Championship last weekend. 
"They're strong, very strong," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "It'll be tough, but we really don't have anything to lose. We'll play them a tough match." . 
After facing Texas, the Irish will travel to neighboring College Station to take on 19th­ranked Texas A&M on Saturday and unranked Texas San Antonio on Sunday. Louderback foresees Texas A&M to be the more competi­tive of the two contests. 
"They're a good, solid team," said Louderback. "Every one of their players is tough. We could win, we'll just have to play well. We're capable of it." 
Notre Dame's biggest hope for the weekend rests in the top doubles team of Tracy Barton and Anne Bradshaw. Though unranked nationally, the duo has seen some strong play in the young season, including a strong 6-3, 6-2 decision over Northwestern last weekend. 
"They played real well against Northwestern, and playing Texas will be good for them," said Louderback. "They haven't played together for very long, so it'll probably be another three weeks before they're ranked. But it's not so much the rank that's important, as seeing how well they can do against these top teams." 

The Observer Friday, February 16, 1990 
Dilucia beats top opponent 
Irish whitewash exhausted Wake Forest squad 
By BOB MITCHELL coming out of the blocks. Wake whole match. David dot into the Sports Writer Forest had to travel today and net frequently and found a didn't get that much sleep. We chink in Amelino's armor. 
Sometimes things are a lot played well and I think we David hit a low sliee to easier than they look. Last caught them flat." Amelino's backhand that was night at the I;:ck Pavilion, the Notre Dame's No. 1 player, really effective. It was as good Notre Dame men's tennis team Dave DiLucia, turned one of his as I have seen him play." thrashed the Deacons of Wake best performances to earn him­The victory over Wake Forest 
Forest, 9-0. self a victory over the fifth­marks the first of four matches 
Sure, on paper, the Irish were ranked player in collegiate ten­that Notre Dame will host the definite favorite but not nis, Gilles Amelino in straight within four days. The Irish take even Bud Collins would have sets, 6-4, 6-3. on Colorado and Iowa on predicted this type of win for DiLucia, ranked No. 44 in the Saturday, 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. re­the 7-1 Irish. Moreover. Notre country, added to his impres­spectively. Dame beat all sorts of odds by sive 1990 resume of victories Yet, the match that is in the turning in its fifth consecutive which includes wins over the back of everv Notre Dame ten­shutout of the season. No. 1 and No. 11 collegiate nis fan's mind is the Ball St. 
"To be honest, I expected to players. contest on Sunday at 1 p.m. at win but not by this kind of "David played brilliantly," the Eck Pavilion. The Irish will margin," said head coach Bob said Bayliss. "He was aggres­try to snap a three-mateh los­Bayliss. "We were really sharp sive and set the tempo for the ing streak. 
Vaas to coach Irish running backs 
Special to the Observer Gators captured North Coast '86, while installing an !-for­Athletic Conference titles both mation attack that produced 
Peter Vass, head football in '87 and '88 and earned Vaas 349 yards per game in '89 coach the last four years at league coach-of-the-year Allegheny College in Meadville, honors in each season. Born April 26, 1952, Vaas Pa., has been named an assis­joined the Holy Cross football tant on the Notre Dame staff. His '87 team ended the reg:.;­team as a walk-on and ended head coach Lou Holtz an­lar season with the first unde­up a three-year starter at quar­nounced yesterday. feated record in 70 years at terback while setting a handful 
Allegheny and earned a spot in of records for the Crusaders. 
Vaas, who wilr coach the the NCAA Division III playoffs Notre Dame running backs, re­(losing 23-17 to Washington He threw for 1,631 yards as a places Jim Strong, who ac­and Jefferson), also a first for senior in '73, completing 135 cepted the head coaching posi­the school. The Gators ended passes that year, including five tion at UNLV in December. up fifth in the national rankings for touchdowns in a single 
that year. game. He graduated with a de­
The 37-year-old Westwood, gree in history from Holy Cross Mass. native achieved a 29-11-1 Allegheny. which had not had in 1974 record in his four seasons at a winning season in seven years Allegheny, including a 9-1-1 prior to Vaas's arrival, finished Vaas first spent five years as mark in '87, an 8-2 record in 6-4 under his direction in both an assistant under head coach '88 and an overall 21-4 mark in '86 and '89. He completely re­Sam Timer at Allegheny, conference contests (17 vamped the Allegheny offense coaching the running backs and straight at one point). The upon taking over the Gators in quarterbacks from 197 4-78. 

-------~------------------~-­
..----------­
Friday, February 16, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Coyle's hustle earns him the chance to represent the U.S. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
When John Coyle crossed the finish line on the rain-soaked fairway of Tyee Valley Golf Course, it wasn't the type of heroic, come-from-behind un­derdog victory that sports journalists love to glorify. 
It was the result of a fresh­man's concerted effort to achieve, and toward this end he was successful. 
John Coyle, a freshman from Lindcroft, New Jersey, won the .Junior Division qualifier for the World Cross Country Championships, enabling him to race in the Junior World Championships on March 24. 
That 7700-meter course in Seattle, Washington was a cu­rious affair. Coyle raced against the best junior runners (19 years old and younger) from all over the comitry, and after exactly 22 minutes he found himself crossing the tape before any of his opponents. 

Did this really happen? Is Coyle the best junior runner in the country? When he goes to Aix-Les-Bains, France, is he going to represent the very best junior cross country athletics has to offer from the United States? 
"My main objective was to win the race," says Coyle, speaking more like an army general than a green-faced lad barely versed in collegiate ath­letics. "It's almost a philosophy of running, that if you shoot for only second you might only get third, and so on. 
"I decided to put it all on the line, risk it all. I knew I was in good shape to do it, so I wanted to see what I could do. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Racquetball Club is still accepting players for second semester. Call x 2334 or x 2274 until Saturday if interested. 
Non-varsity athletics will offer cross country ski rental from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 12 to 1 p.m. Saturday. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
Gymnastics Club will host Clover Classic Gymnastics Invitational at 12 p.m. Sunday at Angela Athletic Facility. Admission is free. 


ever, track coach Joe Piane be­lieves Coyle has put himself among an elite group of junior athletes. 
"This was a way to select the most outstanding freshmen, and you could say that this kid is in the top three, four or five freshmen runners in the coun­try," says Piane. 
Coyle's status -on the higher levels of athletic aptness has not always been solid. During the cross country season, he 
did not start running well until
John Coyle 

the MCC Championships, and So why hold back, protect my­soon after that race he caught self?" a virus that took him out for 
It is true that not all the best the rest of the season. junior-circuit runners were en­Since then, Coyle had been tered in the race. There were training for this event. He and only 27 bodies ready to with­teammate Nick Radkewich ap­stand the mist and muck and proached Piane with the idea, 
compete to represent their and Piane was receptive. They country. both entered the events as indi­By winning the event, how-viduals running unattached. 
Michael Edwards in the back court. Edwards averages 5.3 points and had 113 total assists 
continued from page 20 at the beginning of the week. ness, it's in the back court. "Edwards is doing a good job Syracuse's starting guards in­running the team, but he's only clude a freshman and a natural a freshman," Phelps said. forward. In Wednesday's 79-76 win 
The 6-foot-4 Thompson, a over Marquette, the Irish got two-year starter at forward, is perhaps their best offense from joined by 5-foot-11 freshman their guards all season. .Joe 
Dome 

ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 

We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Damejuniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to sign up for a summer internship interview in our Chicago Consulting Group. 
• 
Math/C.S. 

• 
MIS 

• 
CAPP 

• 
Engi~eers with programming expenence 

• 
Students interested in working in Chicago after graduation 



Interviews to be held on March 6, 1990. 
See the Placement Office for details. 
L------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
"I was really happy with the way I ran the race," says Coyle. "I felt good the whole race, un­der control the whole time. My training really paid off." 
Being the new kid on the block, and an unproven kid at that, Coyle knew that this race could establish him as a con­tending member of the cross country and track teams. 
"I felt I had something to prove, definitely. I don't think I ran to my potential at all dur­ing cross country," says Coyle. "I had something to prove to everyone, especially to myself. I had feelings that I could run the longer distances in college but I really hadn't broken through yet. Now maybe I can build on that." 
"We felt that John could make the team and that he had a shot at winning," says Piane. 
Fredrick scored a season-high 
22 points, while Elmer Bennett 
poured in 16 from the point 
guard position. 
The scoring from the outside 
helped the Irish win on a night 
when leading scorer LaPhonso 
Ellis was held to 12 points. 
"We just want to prove. the 
people wrong who have been 
criticizing us all year," Fredrick 
said. "I read USA Today where 
it says that Phonz is playing 
well but isn't getting any help 
from the guards. We just want 
to help him out." 
Ellis and Syracuse's Owens 
entered college two years ago 
with much fanfare. and the two 
sophomores have put up similar 
numbers. Owens averages 8.4 
rebounds and has dished off 
109 assists to go with his 18.9 
points per game. Ellis is 
scoring 15.9 points and pulling 
down 12.4 rebounds a game, 
both tops on the Irish. 
Senior 6-foot-9 center Keith 
Robinson (14.6 ppg, 7.1 rpg) 
and Fredrick (13.7 ppg) also 
are scoring in double figures 
for the Irish. 


Women's Care Center 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER 
FREE Pregnancy Tests FREE Confidential, Individual 
& Couple Counseling FREE Referral to Sipport Agencies FREE Confidential Care Medical Referral Service Post Abortion Counseling 
1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
24 HOUR HELPLINE 234-0363 


WE WELCOME VOLUNTEERS 
FREE 

TANNING 
NEXT TO VENTURE Daily 9-6 GRAPE RO MISHAWAKA Sat. 9-6 
277-7946 . . Sun. 11 -5
··-...--;}\:··---~

t~~~c~J 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------~·----------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer Friday, February 16, 1990 
Tower adjusts to new role as ouside jump shooter for Irish 
By KEN TYSIAC LaPhonso and they'll say 'Let 
and a lot of times I ignore that "Things like that get you in Sports Writer the seven-foot guy shot the 16-aspect of the game." the right frame of mind," says footer,'" says Tower, "They're But Tower's size doesn't al­Tower. "Coach Phelps has When you first see Keith going to concede that until I hit ways work against him. It's stressed rebounding since Day Tower floating around on the a couple. They're going to con­quite convenient to be 6-11 One when I stepped on campus. perimeter in Notre Dame's tinue to pack it in. and once I when you are crashing the Notre Dame has a tradition of halfcourt offense, you wonder hit a few it will keep the defense boards for rebounds. Tower is being a strong rebounding why a 6-11 center is handling honest and open things up in­one of the best rebounders on team. I know when I get the 
side."

the ball and shooting jump one of the top rebounding stat sheet after the game, the shots from 15 feet. While Tower's duties when in country. He is
teams the first thing I look for is our re­the Irish have the ball have 
fourth on the team with 64 re­bounding margin. It's a matter Why isn't this guy playing in­changed. he is very familiar bounds to date. of pride among the big guys." side? with his daily defensive chores. "We want to go inside to Phelps likes to use Tower's The Irish are an excellent re­But the biggest matter of
" 

(Keith) Robinson and height to intimidate his oppo­Keith Tower bounding team because Phelps pride for the whole team is the (LaPhonso) Ellis more." says nents' inside scorers. fouls on plays which smaller constantly emphasizes NCAA tournament right now. Irish coach Digger Phelps. "We players get away with. He is rebounding in practice. One The Irish have dug themselves a think Ellis will make great deci­"A lot of times I get assigned just so obvious out there that drill which Tower and the rest bit of a hole, and now, with sions with the ball, either kick­to guard their top scorer and the officials can't miss him. of the inside players do every seven games left, they realize ing it out or looking to score. make him adjust his shot. A lot day exemplifies Phelps's that they have to climb out and We're taking the pressure off of post players like to get close "Sometimes I stick out like a commitment to rebounding. ft fight if they are going to im­Tower. We're going to let him to the basket. The idea is to sore thumb," laments Tower. is called the "Manhattan Drill." press the selection committee. shoot facing the basket." push them out a step or two, "Especially when I'm guarding "This is the time of year when 
and now they're taking an a guy who's smaller than I am. Three Irish forwards stand in we have to make a run," says 
The Irish now depend on eight-foot shot rather than a A lot of times it's a sympathy the paint and Phelps throws the Tower. "We can't afford any Tower to hit from outside when five-footer," explains Tower. thing. The ref looks at the big ball up. There are no rules. ex­more silly losses. We can't af­other teams leave him open for guy and says, 'Bully! He's beat­cept that every man is on his ford any more mistakes. We've jump shots. While this is a new Tower, who hails from ing (the little guy) up."' own. He must make two bas­got to get into the tournament, role for Tower. he says he is Pittsburgh, always seems to at­kets in any way that he can be­and that's our goal." fairly comfortable shooting tract the attention of the refer­"A lot of that, too is reading fore his teammates/opponentsfrom the outside. ees when he mixes it up inside. the officials. You've got to do. When he makes two baskets And if the tallest player on 
"I think this is an important It doesn't help that he is usually know where the refs are and he is allowed to take a break, the team starts lighting it uprole because a lot of times my the tallest player on the floor. A know when it's time to hit while another player rotates in from long range, the Irish will 
man will collapse down on lot of times he gets whistled for somebody so they won't see it, to take his spot. probably realize their goal. 
Fencers split weekend matches in Cleveland 
By CHRIS FILLIO Case-Western and finished 7-9 squads will compete in this Sports Writer on the day. Christina Vellucci year's Junior Olympics. to be matched that record, including held Friday, February 16 
The St. Mary's fencing team an identical 3-1 edge over through the following Monday, boasted an impressive outing in CWRU. Leigh Voyt went 2-2 in St. Charles. Ill. 
last weekend's action against versus both CWRU and Oberlin, four schools at Cleveland, OH. to end the day at 5-10. Both Hache! and KellyThe Belles went 2-2 in dual "The girls have been working Haugh (foil) are scheduled to 
meet competition against host hard all season." said Marx. attend. as are sophomoresCleveland State, Northwestern, "And the effects of their efforts Chris Baguer (sabre). Tara Oberlin and Case-Western are really beginning to show. Kelly (foil) and Mary Westrick Reserve. I'm certainly impressed." (foil). Other likely participants 
Training with Irish assistant ••• include Geoff Pechinsky (epee). coach Mike Marx and the In other fencing news. several James Taliaferro (sabre). and L'Escrime du Lac fencing club, members of the Irish fencing Jubba Beshin (sabre). 
the improvements over last year's performances have been quite significant. 
"These girls are fencing for a club sport against NCAA teams," said Marx, who has his hands full in practices with both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's teams. "They spilt their matches that weekend. winning two matches handily (against Oberlin and Case-Western) and just missing a close one against Cleveland State." 
The travel contingency for the Belles was lead by Junior cap­tain Heather Briggs (6-10) who

The Observer/E.G. Bailey Super sophomore Billy Owens will try to lead the Syracuse Urangemen 
had a 4-0 mark against Case­Western. Laura Curtin went 3­1 in matches with Oberlin and 

past Notre Dame in the Carrier Dome Saturday at 4 o.m. 
Junior Parents Weekend 
C©rt1FG~r1!~ 
featuring: 
~ 
enantsans 


Notre Dame's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
When: Saturday, February 17 1:30 & 3:00pm 
Where: Annenberg Auditorium Snite Musuem 
All Are Welcomed! Juniors are encouraged to bring their Parents! 
,_ 

The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday, February 16 
12 p.m.-Lecture, "Karl Klautsky and the Problem of Freedom," Prof. Andrzej Walicki, Dept. of History. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Humanities Colloquium. 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "First-Kind Fredhom Integral Equations in Chemical Engineering Problems," Lee Brown, Los Alamos National Laboratory. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m., room 181. Sponsored by by Dept. of Chemical Engineering. 
Saturday, February 17 
1 p.m.-ND Jazz Band Concert. Washington Hall. 
Sunday, February 18 
2 p.m.-Faculty Piano Recital, William Cerny. Annen­berg Auditorium. 
2:30 p.m. -Overview of Natural Family Planning, by Rev. Dennis St. Marie, Human Life Center, Steubenville, OH. Married Students Community Center. Sponsored by Natural Family Planning. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Salisbury Steak Make Your Own Burrito Vegetable Calzone Reuben Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
ACROSS 
1 U.S. soprano Gluck 5 A Spaniard's homeishis­9 Kimono sash 12 Brag 14Rara­15 Change 16 In trouble 18 Of the ear 
19 Golfer's cheapest purchase 
20 Strap 21 Regional animal and plant life 22 Upand­(active) 
23 Ego 24Circa 27 Warehouse 31 Unaspirated 
consonant 32 Boy singer of the 
30's 33 A Tai language 34 Pugilist 37 Estate manager 39 Berliner's 
"Alas!" 40 "The Girl­Behind Me," 
Colonial song 42-tea 43 More hot and 
humid 45 Human beings, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=+,.:+=..j..=..j 13 Wyo.'s­Range 15 Sheer fabric 17 Reproved 


THE FAR SIDE -GARY LARSON 
47 Drones 48 Poem by 

Cynewulf 50 Lithuanians, e.g. 52 E.r.a., r.b.i, etc. 53 So, in Glasgow 56 Thrill for the Met 
set 57 Extemporane­
ously 59 Carryon so-Centre, 
Minn. 61 Negotiate 62 Cuttlefish 

exudation 63 Spindle 64 Hockey great's 
family 
DOWN 

1 Border on 2-deVega 3 One of a pair 4 Tough, elastic wood 5 "Gigi" star 6 Nemesis 7 Victory, to Hans 8 Request 9 Inappropriate 10 Englishman, for short 11 Quechuan 

21 He wrote "Games People Play" 
22 MacDonald-Eddy specialty 23 Galley word 24Aubades 25 Respond to a stimulus 26 Out of order 28 Raven's haven 29 Propelled a gig 
SPELUNKER 

30 Lincoln's in-laws 32 Jane Fonda's Oscar-winning 
role: 1971 35 Citrus fruits 36 Ancient site of 
Olympia 38 Dry the dishes 41 Peevish 44 Aged: Lat. abbr. 45 One of the 
March girls 46 Map part 49 Jewish potato 
pancake 50 Italian seaport 51 Irish isle 52 Tunisian seaport 53 Plaintiff 54 Distantly 55 Newts 57 Spanish 
she-bear 58--Magnon 
JAY HOSLER 
/ 


"Well, there he is, Bobby -Big Red. Sure he's tough, but if you can ride him, he's yours." 

~ l!JJ) g3 Executive Council Positions for 1990·91 
Applications for: Now available at the Secretruy's Desk Board Manager 2nd Floor LaFortune Director of Programming -
Due February 22, 1990

Director of Relations 
Cushing 
.. Director ofMarketing Auditorium 
$2.00

Controller 
8and 10:1 5llfl1
• 



The Observer/Seen McCants 

Keith Tower and the Notre Dame basketball team will try to crush the Syracuse Orangemen in the Carrier Dome on Saturday. Ken Tysiac 
~--·· ·---·--~.,. .. :....... ;~ ..... ,.. ............ ,..,... 1 Q 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The repercussions of Notre Dame's lucrative football tele­vision contract with NBC have extended into the basketball arena. 
Kansas withdrew Thursday from a scheduled two-game series with the Irish basketball team as a protest against Notre Dame's $30 million foot­ball contract. The home-and­home series was slated to begin with the 1992-93 season. 
"We did not have a signed contract," Notre Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler said. "We just had dates that we had agreed to." 
Kansas sent a letter to Notre Dame officials informing them of the request to drop the pro­posed games from the schedule. 
Kansas, a member of the 
College Football Association 
and the Big Eight Conference, 
.. 
Sports 
Friday, February 16, 1990 
. 
was upset that the Irish left the CFA after the organization signed a $210 million contract with ABC. The CFA pact was renegotiated without Notre Dame for $180 million. 
"We were very concerned when Notre Dame made that decision to negotiate its own TV contract," Kansas Athletic Director Bob Frederick said Thursday from his Lawrence, Kan., office. "Their leaving the CFA package came at a bad time for us. It just struck us as wrong and we decided to do something about it. The only thing we could do about it is cancel these games." 
The Notre Dame Athletic 
Department issued a short 
statement Thursday afternoon. 
That statement read, in full, "Notre Dame Athletic Director Richard A. Rosenthal respond­ing to Kansas Athletic Director Dr. R. E. Frederick's request to be relieved of a proposed home 

Fitzgerald helps Irish motor past Detroit 
Deb Fitzgerald was not about 
Midway through the first half of Notre Dame's 99-58 trounc­ing of Detroit Thursday at the Joyce ACC, Fitzgerald left her seat on the Irish bench and en­tered the game to immediately score 14 points. The efforts of the 5-10 sophomore, who fin­
career high 22 points, paced the drive that allowed the 17-6 Irish to pull away from the Lady Titans. 
"Deb was definitely the offen­sive spark," said head coach 
Fitzgerald bested her previous career-high of 13 with Thursday's perfor­
opportunity tonight to get consistent min­rhythm," a non-starter is used to spending 
and home basketball series 
scheduled for 1992 and 1993 
stated that he had no problem 
of granting the request. 'While 
we grant the request, we do not 
agree with the reasons behind 
it' Rosenthal said." 

Basketball schedules are often determined by television contracts and are finalized only a year before the season. The complete schedule for next sea­son is not yet final. 
Tb.e Irish and Jayhawks played a two-game series in the 1986-87 and 1987-88 seasons, with each team winning one contest. The Irish downed even­tual NCAA champion Kansas 80-76 at the Joyce ACC in 1988. 
Notre Dame and NBC agreed last week to a five-year deal in which NBC will nationally tele­vise all of the Irish home games. The Irish and their op­ponents will each receive a re­ported $500,000 per game in the contract. 
ND tries to end road woes in Carrier Dome 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Searching to find any kind of success away from home, the Notre Dame men's basketball team returns Saturday to the loca­tion where it got its last victory over a Top 20 team. 
The Irish defeated Syracuse at the Carrier Dome 85-81 dur­ing the 1985-86 season. Since then, aside from a 1987 Big Four Classic win over Louisville at the neutral Hoosier Dome site, Notre Dame has had diffi­culty acquiring big wins outside the Joyce ACC. 
Notre Dame (13-8) faces the fourth-ranked Orangemen (18­
4) at the Carrier Dome 4 p.m. Saturday in a nationally tele­vised contest. 

That weakness has reached greater proportions this sea­son, as a 4-8 record away from home has taken the Irish from a national ranking at the be­ginning of the year to a place on the NCAA Tournament bub­ble. But a win at Syracuse would give Notre Dame a strong argument for its sixth consecutive NCAA bid. 
"We've got sP.ven good games left against a lot of good peo­ple," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "Syracuse is a team that ends up in the final eight or Final Four. That's how good they are." 
As good as Syracuse is in general, the Orangemen are even tougher when playing in the Dome, the home stadium for both the football and bas­ketball teams. Syracuse went 18-1 last season and is 11-2 this year at the Dome, which seats 33,000 for basketball. 
The Orange lost to Big East Conference rivals Providence and Villanova at the Carrier Dome earlier this year. Villanova topped Syracuse again 60-56 Monday at Philadelphia, and Syracuse has not played since that upset loss. 
"To go up against them when they're coming off a loss is a dangerous time to play them," Phelps said. "But the fact they've lost at home this year is there." 
Syracuse probably boasts the best front line in the country this season with Derrick a substantial amount of time seated on the sidelines. "I was shooting from the top of the key--my favorite shot--and felt pretty confident." 
The confidence showed. When the Watertown, WI native subbed into the game, Notre Dame was winning 23-16. During the next eight minutes, Fitzgerald keyed a 29-15 Irish run that gave Notre Dame a 52-31 advantage going into the locker room. 
"We didn't change anything," explained McGraw. "Deb just came off the bench and went 7 of 8 in that run." 
The poor showing of Detroit's star Cheryl Day aided the Notre Dame win. Fouling out midway through the second half, Day finished with a dismal eight points and three re­bounds. The 6-1 senior has been averaging 17.2 ppg and 
11.4 rpg, but was frustrated by Notre Dame's inside defense. 
ND and NBC versus CFA: The controversy continues 
The all-initial deal of the cen­tury conti-nues to stir contro­versy from here to the Dust Bowl. 
When NO announced at WNDU that all home TV would be on NBC at 1:30 p.m. EST, it was not OK with the CFA. ND, said the CFA, was AWOL. ABC and ESPN said the CFA better KOthe original pact ASAP. 
Now H.E. of KU, where baskP.tball is the best in the NCAA (not thP NIT), has said BS to ND. Werp, it not for ND, KU says, the CFA would be A-OK in terms of money. 
This is Kansas. a paragon of all that is just and good in college athletics, actually going out of its way, not to nwn­tion out of a lucrative dP.al, to chastisP nasty little Notre Damp, for not playing fair. Mayb1~ Oklahoma and Florida will refuse to ever play football with NotrP. Dame again. At least Notre Dame's additional funds are over the table. 
I'm sure Digger Phelps and the rest of the Notre DamP basketball program have a say in the television contracts for football. Maybe all the schools the Irish compete against can come to an agreemP.nt, and Notre Damp's athletic dPpart­ment can concentrate on a high calibre of interhall ~norts. Alumni and Fisher Halls could field some pretty mean hoops teams. 
Has Notre Dame turned against college football? Not 
see CFA I page 13 


Colmnan and Billy OwP.ns at forward and L1~Hon Ellis at cen­ter. 
Heading into the week. Coleman, a 6-foot-10 senior had 18.1 points and a team­leading 12.6 rebounds per game. Coleman is just third on the team in scoring, behind guard Stephnn Thompson's 
19.3 points and Owens' 18.9. 

Ellis, a 6-foot-1 0 transfer from Kentucky, avPrages 6.9 points and 4.4 rebounds per contest. 
"They're one of the biggest teams in the country," Phelps said. "How much we can con­trol thP.ir size is important." 
Notre Dame also will have to find a way to curP its hooting woes away from hon .. ThP. Irish are shooting well o er 50 percent at the Joyce AC : but 
have hit only 48 percent o  their  
shots on the road.  
"It comes down to shot  elec­ 
tion,"  said  Phelps.  "Th  key  
when  we  go up there  ·  how  

patient we are at wait ng for our shots." 
If the Orange have a weak-
see DOME/page 17 

"I thought our post players did a good job on Day," com­mented McGraw. And her early foul trouble helped too. She was less aggressive." 
With their inside game sput­tering, thP Lady Titans (6-15) turned to outside shooting, specifically to its three-point game. The Titans lead the MCC conferP.nce in shooting treys, and freshman forward Patrice Martin is ranked fourth na­tionally with a .492 percentage from bP.hind the arc. 
Unfortunately for Detroit. Martin had an ofT night, sinking only one of six three-pointers and finishing with just six points total. Her misses re­flected the woes of the entire squad. The Titans completed just 3 of 15 trP.ys and shot a dismal 25%. 
"We were a little worried playing a zone because we knew 
see MOTOR I page 15 






