Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251330 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
030150 
Box: 30 
Volume: 23 
Issue: 81 
Day: Fri 

Date : 2/2/1990 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 

Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

VOL. XXIII NO. 81 FRIDAY . FEBRUARY 2. 1990 . THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

AP Photo

Advising Gorbachev 
President Bush talks on a White House telephone with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, advising him of several announcements he would later make at his State of the Union address, including his plans for arms reductions. 
Security apprehends suspected bike thief 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security appre­hended a South Bend teen for suspicious behavior and possi­ble bicycle theft Wednesday after a call from a University employee, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of secu­rity/police. 
Security learned of the sus­pect from a maid in Pasquerilla East who noticed the boy inside the residence hall. When the suspect was asked who he was visiting, he fled. The maid called security at 2:20 p.m., Hurley said. 
When Security found a boy matching the description near Grace Hall, he was on a bike. "The guy says that he bought the bike off someone in the street, but he can't prove own­ership. We suspect that it is stolen," said Hurley. 
Security discovered that the youth was wanted by other law enforcement officials after running a records check. There was a Body Attachment on him, Hurley said, which is a court order to detain the suspect. The seventeen-year-old was wanted by Parkview Detention Home. 
A resident of PE called Secu­rity at 4:40 p.m. and reported that her bicycle was stolen from the bike rack. The bike recovered by Security, however, did not belong to that girl. 
Hurley said that Security does not yet know the owner of the confiscated bike. 
The suspect was taken to the Juvenile Detention Center. "It is possible that he's involved in other thefts {on campus!. but at this time there is not enough evidence to substantiate it," Hurley said. 
Program to aid students on FAFs 
aid for Notre Dame students is college work study, ac­cording to Student Employ­ment Coordinator, Sue Brandt. 
"All employment on cam­pus has to be cleared 

through the financial aid of­fice, with the exception of independent organizations," she said. 
Preference for work at Notre Dame does go to those who have need, but that does not necessarily mean that students who don't show need may not get a job, Brandt said. 
"There is a fifty-fifty split of those who need to work and those who want to work," she said. 
Many students who do not show need often have jobs on campus that require special skills, or have only certain hours open. A few examples are grading, for which one must have taken the course, research assistants, lifeguarding or computing, said Brandt. 
The average amount of hours students work on campus is 10, although they may work anywhere from 1 to 20 hours per week. The starting salary is $4.70 and 
see AID/ page 4 

AGANA. Guam (APl -Hours bPforP lw was to IPave the is­land to bPgin a prison tPrm, a formPr two-tnrm govnrnor of Guam ehairwd himself to a public statue. wrapped himsnlf in Guam's flag and fatally shot himsnlf in tlw hnad. 
Found at thn base of the statun wnrn four handwritten placards, onn of which said. "I regret I only have one life to give for my island," according to poliCf~ Lt. Phil Dennis. 
Former Gov. Ricardo "Ricky" Bordallo, 63, shot himself Wednesday less than four hours before he was to fly to Los Angeles, where he was to visit his daughter before rn­porting to the fnderal correc­tional facility at Boron, Calif., to begin a four-year prison term for witness tampering and obstruction. 
Heporters who attended a farewnll party for Bordallo earlier in the day said he had appeared to be in good spirits. 
"I didn't think this would happen." Congressional Del. Ben Blaz said from Washing­ton. "Ricky Bordallo always seemnd to bounce back from his many adversities." 
i\t a busy downtown intersec­tion, Bordallo shot himself with a .38-caliber pistol while chained to the statue of Chief Quipuha, the first chief in Guam to adopt Christianity, Dennis said. 
He died a short time later of massive brain damage, accord­ing to a spokesman at the Guam Naval Hospital. His wife, territorial Sen. Madeleine Bor­dallo, was reportedly with him when he died. 
Bordallo told the Pacific Daily News in an interview last Fri­
day  that  he  was  facing  his  
prison  term  with  "complete  
serenity."  

"When a man is innocent. hie;; conscien~£ see GUAM I page 4 
peace wttl said. 
Cocks named as Observer editor-in-chief for '90 -'91 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Junior Alison Corks has been nanwd Thn ObsPrvcr's editor­in-rhiPf for 1990-91 by a ma­jority votn of tlw general board. 
Cocks is a junior American StudiPs major from WHntworth, Surrny, l:ngland. 
"I look forward to the chai­IPngn of guiding Thn Observer through tlw coming year. I hopn to continue to serve the NotrP Danw community in an pffpctivn, objnetivP and infor­matiw mamwr," said Cocks. 
Slw has hPid several posi­tions on the paper since her freshman ypar inr.luding design assistant, dPsign editor, and assistant production manager. Most recently, Cocks served as production manager. 
Cocks will assume the duties of editor-in-chief after spring break succeeding Senior Chris Donnelly. 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Assistant News Editor 
As "College Goal Sunday" approaches, the financial aid office would like to remind students of its purpose. 
On Feb. 4 the financial aid staffs will be at the South Bend Public Library to help residents of South Bend and students fill out the Finan­cial Aid Form (FAF). 
This event is directed espe­cially toward low-income disadvantaged students. The number of minority college goers has decreased across the country, and even more so in Indiana, said Joe Russo, director of financial aid. 
"College Goal Sunday" is sponsored primarily by the Lilly Endowment. 
A large part of financial 

A remarkably clear blue sky is visible above Holy Cross as the hall spends its final semester as a stu­dent housing facility. 
~ea~g~e_2~-------------------------------------------T~h~e~O==bs~e~N~e~r__________________________________F.~y.F~~2.1990 
INSIDE COLUMN Academic freedom cuts both ways Academic freedom. The liberty and au­tonomy requisite for scholarship and the critical examination of issues. It's often a line line between academic freedom and the Uni­versity's mission as a Dave Bruner Catholic university to Viewpoint Editor pass on the Church's teachings to its ---------------­studnnts. This weekend Notre Dame will host a na­tional conference of Catholic students. One of thn primary topics of the event will be a discussion of academic freedom at Catholic institutions of higher education. The Notre Dame campus has seen the is­sue of academic freedom come up several times this year. The biggest frenzy came over "The Last Temptation of Christ"; the most recent, over the lecture by Dr. Sol Gordon. Why all the fuss? Not many would argue against academic autonomy. Freedom to say and think what you will is a right guar­antel~d by our Constitution, a right cher­ished at academic institutions everywhere. Indeed, shouting "academic freedom" is usually enough to quiet most objections about a particular speaker, book, or film. It's line if you don't like the speaker, but don't try to keep anyone from attending his or her lecture. Ask yourself what academic freedom means to you. Can you think of anyone who should not be invited to speak here? Not just someone you'd disagree with; someone who should never set foot on this campus? Who comes to mind-a Ku Klux Klansman?  WEATHER Forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 2. Lines show high temperatures. Yesterday's high: 48 Yesterday's low: 37 Nation's high: 86 (Ft. Myers and Naples, Fla.) Nation's low: -35 (Plentywood, Mont.) Forecast: High in the middle 30s today. Freezing rain and snow likely tonight. FRONTS: •• •• •• •COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc Pressure®© HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet  
OF INTEREST A Concert with NO's Gospel Ensemble, Voices Auditions for the Fantasticks will be held Mon-of Faith, with Sr. Thea Bowman will be held Sunday at 7 day and Tuesday, in Washington Hall. Anyone interested p.m. in Washington Hall. in auditions. tech. work, the pit orchestra, (piano, harp, string bass, percussion) or the student players in general,An informal question and answer session will should stop by the SUB secretary's office, 2nd floor be given by Bill Freeman, a Christian broadcaster and edi­LaFortune, by February 3rd. tor from Arizona in the basement of Farley Hall at 7 p.m. Saturday. The Freshman Snow Tubing Trip to St. Patrick's park on Feb. 4 has been rescheduled to Feb. 11 due to lack of snow. Any questions should be directed toThe Alumni Senior Club is accepting applications Freshman Council officers, Lynn Hamsay at 283-4526 or for managers for the 1990-91 school year. If you are Scott Boehnen at 283-1643. looking for responsibility, experience, fun, and of course, The professional jazz trio, Jazzmania, will prn­money, pick up an application in the Office of Student Ac­sent a concert with Cincinnati jazz trumpet virtuoso Pattivities in LaFortune today. Harbison in Washington Hall at 2:30 p.m. Sunday. with  
Dan Quayle'? Jimmy Johnson? If you thought seriously about the question undoubtedly you came up with at least one person. Now try justifying your decision. "That person is. worthless; there's nothing he could offer anyone as a speaker. Even worse, many lind him offensive." If this was your argument then score one for those who objected to "The Last Temp­tation of Christ." Many found the film not merely incorrect. but blatantly offensive. Notre Dame is a fantastic school. Looking back over my four years here there's no plaee I would rather have been. Yet I'll leave here disturbed that many of us don't realize how seleetive we are in our indignations. The clamoring for academic freedom rings  Les Peetz, pianist, Ed Wiseman, bass, and Hussell Hunt, Dorms with entries to this year's Morrissey drummer. Manor Film Fest on March 24, 1990, must contact Kevin at 283-1914 today. Federal Express now has a drop-off box in the southeast corner of the LaFortune Student Center base­The Charity Ball Committee will have its lirst ment. Packages must be there by 6 p.m. Monday through meeting on Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFor­Friday. A $3.00 discount per package is given when using tune. Benefits go to CRS and the Food Bank of Michiana. the box. Call 1-800-2:~8-5355 for additional information. The east gate guard shack is still available also for the same discount Monday through Friday. WORLD Honeywell Corp. has been ordered to pay a Travelers' diarrhea might be limited to a dura­man $500,000 for urging a rival company to lire him. An tion of just an hour, from an average of :~4 hours with the Allegheny County jury Wednesday awarded Joseph best known previous therapy, by combining an antibiotic Collincini, 42, of Crafton, Pennsylvania $100,000 in com-with an over-the-counter drug, a new study suggests.  

hollow when it becomes clear that the argu­ment is only invoked for speakers one likes. 
Before huffing and puffing about freedom and censorship, ask yourself if that's the real reason behind your fury . 
-Ihe-O.bse.------~~r­
&.-=Y:_._, . 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Production 
Cristina Oritz 
Lisa Eaton 

Systems Viewpoint 
Cesar Capella Kim Skiles News 
Deirdre Bell Greg Lucas Sandra Wiegand 

Ad Design 
Kathleen O'Conner Accent 
Kerry Clair Sports Maria Blohm 
Colleen Cronin Frank Pastor Paul Pearson Amy Eckert Scott Brutocao Brian Grunert Shannon Roach 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
pensatory damages and $400,000 in punitive damages. Collincini, Who worked for Honeywell for 12 years, claimed the company lobbied American Technical Systems to fire him in a series of letters to the company. He was fired in April 1987. 
A lawyer in Tokyo with two Spanish-made sabers he wanted to keep as works of art was ruled against by the Supreme Court on Thursday, a 'court offi­cial said. Japanese law bans ownership of swords and handguns, although some can be kept if registered as valuable artwork. The court ruled the registration provi­sion applies only to Japanese swords, said the court offi­cial. 
INDIANA 
More than 50 concrete barriers installed in a residential area by the Terre Haute Housing Authority have been ordered removed. The hous­ing authority reversed itself because people com­plained that the barriers running along two resi­dential blocks on U.S. 41 were eyesores, authori­ties said. The 56 concrete blocks, which stand waist-high, were installed late last year to protect the occupants of public housing, housing author­ity Director Patrick Harder said. 
The executive director of Action Inc., a federally funded agency in Muncie that aids the poor, has been charged with bribery, authorities said. Sam Simpson, 46, was arrested Tuesday on charges of bribery, a felony, and on possession of marijuana and drug paraphernalia. a misde­meanor. Delaware County police said Simpson has been freed on $14,000 bond. The arrest was part of a year-long investigation, and the charges stem from evidence obtained at the time of the arrest, said investigator Robert Crabbs. 
"We never dreamed it would work so well. It was mar­velous," said Dr. Charles Ericsson, who with Dr. Herbert DuPont led a team of researchers at the University of Texas Medical School at Ilouston. 
The Walt Disney Co., which fought Mickey Mouse's appearance on a day-care wall and Snow White.'s performance at the Academy Awards, wants an anti­pornography group to quit quoting its founder. "Our greatest natural resource is the minds of our children," Walt Disney once said. The Greater Orlando Coalition 
Against Pornography used that quotation in a pamphlet outlining the group's purpose. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for February 1, 1990 
Volume in shares 
154.60 Million 


NYSE Index 181.52 -'i} .02 S&P Composite 328.79 {7 .29 Dow Jones Industrials 2586.26 {7 4.28 

Precious Metals Gold -'i} $5.60 to $418.00/ oz. 
Silveri} 10.5¢ to $5.297 1oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On February 2: e In 1653: New Amsterdam­now New York City -was in­corporated. 
e In 1943: The remainder of Nazi forces from the Battle of Stalingrad surrendered in a 
major victory for the Soviets in World War II. 
e In 1961: The 600 passen­gers of a hijacked Portuguese 
ocean liner, the Santa Maria, were allowed to disembark in Brazil. 
e In 1971: Idi /\min assumed power in Uganda, following a coup that ousted President Mil­
ton Obote. 
Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer page 3 
European leaders support troop reduction 

What 
We 
Can 
Do••• 
logos 
flyers 
cups 
mugs 
posters 
t-shirts 
boxers 
caps 
buttons 
pencils, 
resumes 
graphics 
pens keychains stationery table. tents watches programs yo-yos frisbees coozies rulers note pads sweatshirts steins 
observer ads megaphones luggage tags classic clocks business cards mini-binoculars bumper stickers tennatops magic markers roladex filers bathrobes candies flashlights pencil sharpeners staplers datebooks 
sunglasses 
can openers 
cork screws' 
picture frames 

persondz.ed stuffed anlmala 
auntval knife 
envelope opener 
~:':e-=er 
coaatera 
calendan 
planner•towek coolen 
ln=e".da 
ahopptncblfllll 
tapemeuure trophlea... 

LONDON (AP) -Western Eu­thing like 195,000 soldiers left floor and that no more reduc­ropean leaders on Thursday in East Germany within the tions are envisaged." supported the U.S. proposal next two to three years," said "This will ensure a continued for significant new troop with­Francois Heisbourg, director of strong American presence in drawals from Europe but, amid the London-based Institute of Europe," added the statement hints of anxiety, stressed they Strategic Studies. from her No. 10 Downing St. want a continued American "I think the Soviets will be office. presence. 
Britain said it hoped this was 

275 000
~ ttttttttt, 
• 
~JANUARY1990PROPOSAL 

ttttttf195 
' 
000

~ ttttttf195 
' 
t =30,000 
in central and eastern Europe 
Ceilings for all of Europe 
Applies to 
central and 
eastern 
Europe only 

lucky if there is a symbolic contingent left; a Soviet Guan­tanamo," he said, referring the 
U.S. base in Cuba. 
In London, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said Britain attached "great importance to President Bush's assurance that the new figure will be a 
Thatcher aides said Bush telephoned her Saturday to dis­cuss the proposal, and "we indicated our support." 
Bush sent two senior aides to put this plan to the leaders of the four major Western Euro­pean powers, Britain, France, West Germany and Italy. 
The United States has 305,000 troops in central Eu­rope, and the Soviet Union has 565,000. Another 30,000 U.S. troops in Britain and southern Europe are excluded from the Bush proposal. 
West Germany, where most of the U.S. troops are deployed, hailed the proposal. Defense Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg called it "a balanced combina­tion of disarmament policy and unequivocal recognition of the West's defense readiness and alliance solidarity." 
West German enthusiasm for troop pullouts by both sides reflected eagerness for unifica­tion with East Germany, where 380,000 of the Soviet troops on foreign soil are stationed. 
Two other East bloc nations, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, have demanded that the Soviet forces leave their soil. 
Other European NATO allies are concerned about being dominated by a powerful, single German state. The fears are heightened on a continent that was overrun by Nazi Germany in World War II. 
They are also worried about the United States detaching it­self from Europe as the Soviet military threat diminishes with the collapse of a string of Communist governments in 1989. 
Belgium and the Netherlands 
see BUSH/ page 5 

the last reduction planned by Washington. 
The Soviet Union welcomed as a sign that "things are changing for the better" the proposal by President Bush to cut troop levels in central Eu­rope to 195,000 for each su­perpower -below the 275,000 being negotiated at talks in Vi­enna. 
But Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov complained the plan did not go far enough, adding, "We must continue to have as our goal no foreign troops on foreign soil." 
"It must be the ceiling, not the floor," said Gerasimov. "You can note in his (Bush's) speech he needs American troops in Europe for here to eternity.... This is not a good sign." 
Some analysts said the Bush plan signaled the beginning of the final withdrawal of Ameri­can troops from Western Eu­rope -dreaded by many of the 
U.S. allies in NATO -as well as the departure of all the Sovi­ets. 
"I personally would be sur­prised if the Soviets have any-
Lecture focuses on black American literature 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 
Black American autobiogra­phies traditionally encompass a social message about the life of all blacks rather than just the introspections of one indi­vidual, said Alice Deck, an English professor at the Uni­versity of Illinois. 
"The main thrust of black lit­crature since the slave narra­tive is a social message of gaining basic human rights," Deck told an Afro-American lit­erature class at Notre Dame Thursday. "The black autobi­ographers. therefore, speak in the communal voice." 
Deck compared the autobi­ographies of French writer Jean Jacques Rousseau and American statesman Benjamin Franklin with the African-
American autobiographical tradition. 
The two writers "were eigh­teenth century men, very much under the influence of eigh­teenth century thought which emphasized man's intellectual capabilities, man's individual­ism and man's uniqueness," Deck said. 
"African-American autobiog­raphers are doing the exact opposite of Rousseau and Franklin. Their emphasis is not so much on introspection and meditations of self as it is an examination of the outer dy­namics of the 'we."' The black writer asks "what links me to my black community and how much responsibility do I have to speak for or on behalf of the community from which I come," Deck said. 
The dominant tradition in white personal narratives is the portrayal of family life or ac­complishments, while black au­tobiographies tend to reflect the writer's political awareness, suffering, knowledge of oppression and sense of shared triumph and communal respon­sibility, the professor said. 
Narratives of Black Ameri­cans are characterized by a "very close association between the self and her people." 
Some writers consider the as­sociation an easy task and they have no problem speaking in the plural, Deck said. But others vacillate between an identification with the tradi­tional "we" and a desire to pull away from the group and pre­sent themselves as distinct en­tities. 
Former slave Harriet Brent Jacobs used her 1861 autobi­ography to make a political statement about southern life and an appeal for abolition. Her book "Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl" is one of the few slave narratives which de­picts the sexual harassment of female slaves by their owners. 
"I have not written my expe­riences in order to attract at­tention to myself," Jacobs says in the preface. "I do honestly desire to arise the women of the North to realize the condi­tion of two women of the South." 
Like Jacobs, Ida Wells en­dorsed a political cause in her 1928 autobiography, Crusade for Justice. Wells, a journalist and a crusader against lynch­ings in the South, focuses her 
see LIT./ page 7 


.~KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKM 
f 
Sale t~t-~u /I'UH4­
~~ ~ ~'!! 

~ D!lllllllill 
~ == 'P~ tl/'l~~ ~ 
~ s~. 'l~ 4. 1990 ~ 7:00fult 
~ 'Zf)~~att ~ ~ St4/Qt 7~ '8~ ~ ~~~} 
~..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~....._~......~~~~~~~~~~~~............ 
page 4 

Troop reduction proposal signals change in Germany 
FRANKFURT, West Germany (AP) -Drinking beer, paying rent, buying clothes and fur­nishing their apartments, U.S. soldiers account for about $2 billion in annual revenues alone in one West German state. 
Nationwide, the more than 250,000 Gls, their family mem­bers and civilian U.S. military employees spend several times that amount each year. 
For the tens of thousands of West Germans whose liveli­hoods depend on the presence of the U.S. military, President Bush's troop reduction pro­posal Wednesday signaled a possible major shift in their lives. 
While the Yankees aren't go­ing home just yet. the European nation that grew up with U.S. troops is beginning to contem­plate an end to a large part of their sometimes controversial presence. 
The occupation troops­turned-allies are still a daily fact of life. whether it's a fa­tigue-clad Gl riding the S-4 
Aid 
continued from page 1 

goes up from there according to skill level. she said. 
Students receive paychecks; the money is not deposited in their accounts, Brandt noted. College work study is also tax­able income. 
"Working is not going to fund your direct educational expenses, but rather incidental expenses," she said. 
Minimum wage in Indiana is $:{.35, and the federal college work study program does not require the University to offer more. It is the University's de­cision to raise the salary, said Brandt. 
Forty percent of the under­graduates on campus work, subway home from Frankfurt or the young soldier's wife in Bitburg learning German from her landlord. 
Cars with the familiar black­and-white, American-size li­cense plates crowd the auto­bahn highways, while any sim­ple receiver can pick up the military's AFN radio network. 
"Mad King Ludwig's' Neuschwanstein Castle -faith­fully copied in Disneyland -is one of several meccas for sol­diers and their families every year. 
The U.S. military has also been the target of criticism and even rage, during the anti-mis­sile protests of the 1980s and the low-level training flights that angered civilians. 
Farmers and villagers com­plain about tanks on maneu­vers tearing up fields and crunching pavement. Deadly collisions occur every year. 
Saturday night brawls involv­ing Gls are common, especially in large cities such as Frank­furt. 
and thirty percent of the freshman work. 
"As long as a student can handle it academically, it's great working as a freshman," Brandt said. "It gives you re­sponsibility and helps finance your education." 
Currently, research is being done about students working on campus, she said. 
"Work is called self-help; it can sometimes help so that the student can borrow less," said Brandt. " We would never deny anyone the right to work, although we may force them to make a choice" between work and a loan. 
Working on campus may also be advantageous when looking for a job after graduation. 

MCAT 
I STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Otances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
---------------------------------·---­
Friday, February 2, 1990
The Observer 


Exxon captain on trial 
AP Photo 

Former Exxon Valdez captain Joseph Hazelwood, right, sits with his lawyer Michael Chalos in Anchorage Superior court as the third day of his trial gets underway. Hazelwood faces several charges surrounding the nearly 11 million gallon oil spill on March 24 in Alaska's Prince William sound. 
Guam 
continued from page 1 
But he also said: "My own in­stincts make me believe that I will not be coming back from Boron alive. I'm not dwelling on how it will happen. I will be in 
the hands of people who are masters of intrigue." 
Bordallo was found guilty in February 1987 of getting engi­neer Johnny Carpio to lie to federal officials about a $60,000 political contribution from a group of Japanese busi­nessmen. 
During his trial, Bordallo admitted accepting mo.ney from the businessmen. but contended tlw morwy was a campaign con­tribution. 
Carpio was convicted of ex­tortion and bribery and was placed on five years' probation. 
Bordallo, a Democrat, served as governor from 1976 to 1980, and again from 1982 to 1986. when he was defeated by Republican Joseph Ada. 
~~-------~-----­


Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer 
page·S 

What 
We 
Can't 
Do••• 

De Klerk brings S.African future into question 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP)-President F.W. de Klerk is to outline his plans for re­form Friday in a speech that many South Africans hope will finally signal the end of apartheid and set their country on the road to peace. 
Expectation has ballooned around the world that de Klerk's speech will at least an­nounce the release of Nelson Mandela, South Africa's most famous black leader, clearing the way for negotiations on solving the nation's problems. 
De Klerk, who already has dented the edifice of apartheid, has pledged to create a "new dispensation" in South Africa. Whites and blacks must solve their differences peacefully, and avoid what he says could be a race war that would last for 80 years. 
But political observers are warning that de Klerk's speech in Cape Town at the start of Parliament on Friday won't be the end of white rule. There are no signs de Klerk intends to surrender power or accept the democracy that is the goal of all groups fighting apartheid. 
White rule in South Africa is not going to collapse like the Berlin Wall and the Communist regimes of Eastern Europe, ob-
News Analysis 
servers say; the quest for a so­lution to South Africa's prob­lems is more likely to resemble the tortured search for peace in the Middle East and Northern Ireland. 
The government is in full con­trol of the country, unrest is minimal and the African Na­tional Congress, the main black opposition group, admits its military campaign against white rule has been largely inef­fective. 
While de Klerk does want to ease tensions, some critics say the president lacks a definite plan and is feeling his way, playing for time with moderate reforms to blunt domestic and international opposition and postpone any major confronta­tion. 
"It has not been .shown that Mr. de Klerk has either the vi­sion or the courage to make this moment (on Friday) a mo­ment for historic importance," said Rev. Allan Boesak, an anti­apartheid leader. 
The government rejects any suggestion of black majority rule and says the interests of the white minority must be en­sured. De Klerk has given no sign of what he wants for the future beyond stressing that whites must have veto power in any future state. 
Black leaders say de Klerk must meet a number of basic expectations to clear the way for talks with the ANC, includ­ing lifting the state of emer­gency used to suppress dissent; release Mandela; legalize the ANC and other outlawed oppo-

Protesters return to their township of Bloemfontein, South Africa after a rally at a cricket ground. Police fired rubber bullets and tear gas to prevent more than 1 ,000 blacks from protesting against an English cricket team which played there despite a boycott. 
r·u·~~tn;:l!;~;e ~7u~~~·;~:u~~~;;:;~~o-ga,~~ 
i and 
N A.S.C.C.U. 

Nati..onaL A.ssoci.ati..on of Students at CathoU£ Co[(eqes and Uni.vet"si.ti.es 
l.nvi..te you. to 

by 

Fr. JalllU Heft. S.M. 
Provost, University of Dayton 
Saturday, February 3 at 1:45 p.m. at the C.C.E. Auditorium 
"Sce~urccJhl ifconr 1Ilr1Ult1hl ~ CathoUes m lHillglhler JE([JhJt<eatloiDl" 
by 

Rembert G. Weakland, O.S.B. 
Archbishop of Milwaukee, Chairman of Bishops' Pastoral on Economics 
Friday, Febrwny 2 at 8:00 p.m. at the C.C.E. Auditorium. 
sition groups and allow exiled black leaders to return. 
Critics say that de Klerk as leader of South Africa's Afrikaners cannot surrender white minority rule and accept black majority rule. The Afrikaners, whites of Dutch de­scent, have been ingrained with a sense of racial superiority for 350 years that makes it impos­sible for them to share power with non-whites, they say. 
Helen Suzman, who opposed the National Party throughout her 36 years in Parliament, said de Klerk was elected by the Afrikaners and his mandate is to protect the whites' interests above all other considerations. 
"He would not interpret his mandate for reform as a man­date to jeopardize the political position of the white minority or to threaten its survival," she said in a recent lecture. 
Suzman said she believes de Klerk will end the worst aspects of the apartheid laws that deprive blacks of rights and "excise much of the overt brutality inherent in the apartheid system." 
De Klerk, who took office in August, has freed several elderly black political prisoners and eased restrictions on anti­government protests after years of repression. He also has called for repeal of the law that allows segregation of mu­nicipal facilities. 
But the government has said it will not desegregate schools, hospitals and other public facil­ities and there are few signs that many white South Africans are ready to share power or amenities with non-whites. 
Nonetheless, the government apparently hopes a moderate stance would ease political ten­sion and encourage some black groups to take a softer line that could lead to a compro­mise in which white interests will be safeguarded. 
The government also is eager to end or weaken the economic boycotts imposed by many Western nations to protest apartheid. The boycotts, along with domestic economic prob­lems, have sent the economy into a tailspin and created hard times for many whites. 
Bush 
continued from page 3 
followed Thatcher's cautious 
line. 

"There have to be talks on 
the withdrawal of troops, and I 
oppose a unilateral initiative," 
said Belgian Foreign Affairs 
Minister Mark Eyskens. 
Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek said 195,000 
U.S. troops would be the "minimum level" needed, Dutch TV reported. Both Belgium and the Netherlands, however, have said they are studying the pos­sibility of withdrawing their forces from West Germany be­cause of the diminished Soviet threat. "Some of the smaller NATO countries weren't all that firm in their commitment anyway," said Mark Fielder, an analyst at the Royal United Services In­stitute in London. "Now with the Bush proposal they'll have the best excuse in the world to say, 'Let's have a race to see who can get out first."' Manfred Woerner, secretary­general of the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization, said in Brussels the Bush plan was consistent with U.S. 
p.romises "to maintain signifi­.cant military forces in Europe.", 
page 6 The Observer Friday, February 2, 1990 
'Big Mac attack' strikes Moscow 
MOSCOW (AP) -Thousands of queue-hardened Soviets on Wednesday cheerfully lined up to get a taste of "gamburgers," "chizburgers" and "Filay-o­feesh" sandwiches as McDon­ald's opened in the land of Lenin for the first time. 
The world's largest version of the landmark American fast­food chain rang up 30,000 meals on 27 cash registers, breaking the opening-day record for McDonald's world­wide, officials said. 
The Soviets. bundled in fur coats and hats, seemed un­fazed, lining up before dawn outside the 700-seat restau­rant. the !irst of 20 planned across the Soviet Union. The crush of customers was so in­tense the company stayed open until midnight, two hours later than planned. 
"I only waited an hour and I think they served thousands be­fore me." said a happy middle­aged woman who works at an aluminum plant. 
"And it was only 10 rubles for all this," she said. ''I'm taking it back for the girls at the factory to try." 
Big Macs were priced at 3.75 ruhles and double cheeseburJZ­
ers at 3 rubles -about two 
hours' pay for a starting Mc­
Donald's staffer or the average 
Soviet, but much cheaper than 
other private restaurants that 
have sprung up recently. 
The official exchange rate is $1.59 per ruble but foreign visi­tors can buy rubles for 16 cents each, about what the currency is worth on the black market. 
Half the day's sales were do­nated to the Soviet Children's Fund, which provides medical care and assistance to orphans and disadvantaged children, Gary Reinblatt, senior vice president of McDonald's Canada, said from Toronto. 
The restaurant, built by the company in a joint venture with the city of Moscow that began 14 years ago, brought to 52 the number of countries where McDonald's operates. 
The previous opening-day record for sales was in Bu­dapest, company officials said. Besides its restaurants in the United States, the leading num­ber of McDonald's are in Canada and Japan, the officials said. 
Soviets got a first-hand look at such alien concepts as effi­ciency and fast, friendly service. 

Normally dour citizens broke into grins as they caught the in­fectious cheerful mood from youthful Soviet staffers hired for their ability to smile and work hard. 
Accordions played folk songs and women in traditional cos­tumes danced with cartoon characters, including Mickey Mouse and Baba Yaga, a witch of Russian fairy tales. 
One Muscovite, accustomed to clerks who snarl if they say anything at all, asked for a straw and was startled when a smiling young Soviet woman found him one and popped it straight into his drink. 
For most customers, it was their first experience with a hamburger. Sandwiches were served in the familiar bag marked with the golden arches, but were packed in wrappers bearing Cyrillic letters, approx­imating "gamburger." 
They tried them one-handed. They picked their sandwiches apart to examine the contents. One young woman finally squashed her "Beeg Mak" to fit her lips around it. 
"It tasted great!" a 14-year­old boy said. 

APPhoto 
Hundreds of Soviets crowd around the first McDonald's in the Soviet Union on its opening day in Moscow. The event was instigated-by McDonald's of Canada. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
FeaturiJag Friday night seafood buffet 
ancl SWiclay brunch 219-259-9925 

Get ready for Spring Break 
FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR AVERY UMITED nME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DETAILS ••. 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
272·7653 

Free doses of AZf offered to exposed health workers 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­Firefighters, police officers and health workers exposed to the AIDS virus on the job can get free doses of the drug AZT in a pioneering program in one California county, officials said Thurs­day. 
Orange County officials said they believe it is the first organized program nation­wide to offer emergency workers access to the AIDS­fighting drug. 
"Health care workers are not the only people who get exposed (to AIDS)," said Dr. Tom Prendergast, chief epi­demiologist for the county south of Los Angeles. Paramedics, police and others who risk exposure also should have use of AZT, he said Thursday. 
The program, implemented in September, was discussed by county AIDS coordinator Penny Weismuller at an AIDS conference Wednesday. 
Under the program, five public safety workers took AZT immediately after po­tential exposure to the virus, Ms. Weismuller said. Animal studies indicate that infec­tion may be prevented if the drug is administered within 96 hours of exposure,' she said. 
The therapy was suggested in August by researchers with the National Institutes of Health and the Univ1~rsity of California, San Franeisco, who have dllVPloped AZT programs for their health-
The program is intended 

for workers involved in inci­
dents which would put them 
at serious risk of exposure if 
the other person turned out 
to be infected with AIDS, 
Weismuller said. Examples 
would be cases where the 
worker is actually stabbed 
by a needle, or directly ex­
posed to blood. 
The first pMson to take AZT under the Orange County program was a police officer who cut his arm while the job develop the disease. said Julie Gerberding, a UC researcher. 
Orange County, population about 2.2 million, had an AIDS rate through Novem­ber 1989 of 54.6 cases per 100,000 population. Pren­dergast said. That compares to a national rate of 45.:1 cases per 100,000, he said. scuffling with a man, Weis­muller said. Blood from a cut in the man's scalp dripped directly into a wound the officer sustained during the light. . 
"Thn city called us right away, which was good. be­cause we k1ww this suspect and knew lw was (AIDS virus) positive," Weismuller said. The ol'fker took tlw drug for the recommended four w1wks and continuPs to tnst 1wgativo for tlw virus. she addPd. 
Tlw four otlwr workPrs givPn AZT took it for loss than !'our days, slw said. 

HalfOfThisYear's MedicalSchool ClassGotThere With Our Help. 
. Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly tmposstble. Anempnng to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would 
simply be a bad career move. 

Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
IE STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
& Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Clw¥:es 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
page 7

Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer 
Yugoslavian protests leave at least 18 dead 
PRIS'l!NA, Yugoslavia (AP) -ment said Thursday the situa­Tanks patrolled streets of tion is "further deteriorating," Kosovo and helicopters and the official news agency watched from above Thursday, Tanjug called it "dramatic." the ninth day of protests that The government also said a have cost the lives of at least 18 "dialogue should be opened ethnic Albanians in the impov­with democratic forces in erished province. · Kosovo." 
Demonstrators began gather­ing at midday in towns across Leaders of independent Kosovo, a southern region ad-groups in Kosovo issued a jacent to Albania in which 90 statement Thursday urging percent of the 1.9 million people federal authorities to negotiate are ethnic Albanians. with ethnic Albanians in order 
An Associated Press reporter to avoid a full-scale uprising. saw columns of army tanks and "Ethnic Albanians are not armored personnel carriers terrorists," the statement said. approaching from the direction "They are subjected to ter-ror of the the Serbian republic, of by the state." which Kosovo is an au-Violence in Kosovo has tonomous province. Air force caused a backlash in some jets new overhead. other parts of Yugoslavia, a 
loose federation of six republics 
Tanks also were deployed in and two autonomous provinces, February and March 1989, including demands by Slavs for during a spasm of ethnic vio-weapons so they can fight in lence connected with constitu-Kosovo for the Slavic minority. tional changes made by Serbia Thousands of Serbs held anti-to try to take greater control Albanian demonstrations in over Kosovo. Twenty-eight their republic Thursday, includ­people :were reported killed last ing about 5,000 in Novi Sad, 30 year. miles north of Belgrade, capital 
On Thursday, after days of of both Yugoslavia and Serbia. conflicting figures, the provin-As many as 100,000 Slavs, cial government in Pristina put some firing guns into the air, the death toll at 18 ethnic AI-rallied on Wednesday in Ti­banians. It said 54 ethnic Alba-tograd. capital of Montenegro. nians and 45 policemen had Some demanded weapons and been injured in the riots that volunteered to fight ethnic began Jan. 24. "Albanian nationalists" in 
Ethnic Albanians want more neighboring Kosovo. autonomy. a halt to political One speaker said Montene­trials. release of political pris-grin volunteers would go to oners and an end to the year-Kosovo unless authorities "use old state of emergency. Official all available methods, including media have described the region repression," to end "the Alba-as verging on civil war. nian uprising." 
Yugoslavia's central govern-

Lit. 

continued from page 3 
story on the history of the lynchings. The writer hoped to instill in her audience of young black Americans a sense of the struggles of the post-Recon­struction era, Deck said. 
"Wells stated the intention of 
presenting her memoirs as a 
corrective to southern white 
histories of the Reconstruc­
tion," which usually neglected 
..------------------------. or distorted the contributions 
of blacks, the professor said. "Wells uses the written word to
Happy 21st Birthday 
fill the gaps in American histor­ical and literary reference." "Wells adds another dimen-
Michelle 
Sibilsky 
Loue, Dttd, Mom, Oauid & Sara 

Jllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll­
-
-
-
-
-
=
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--FRIDAY NIGHT SPECIALS: 
-
-
-
-
-
-BUFFALO WINGS: 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--10¢
-
-
-
-
-
-BURGERS: 99¢
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
= Stop in for our weeknight specials! 
-
-
-
-
-
-
: 1804 7 St. Road 23 : South Bend, IN : (1/2 mile east of Notre Dame) 271-8158 
=illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllf 
sion to the black autobiograph­ical tradition in that she envi­sions a black American reader­ship whereas (the slave narra­tives) addressed mainly the northern white middle and up­per classes," Deck said. 
Anthropologist Zora Neal Hurston's personal narrative is more of an ethnography or cul­tural study than a history of black America, Deck contends. Hurston shares her study of black culture in chapters on di­alect, religion and friendship, although she makes no refer­ence to racism. 
Hurston presents her mem­oirs as a corrective to the mis­conceptions and stereotypes of blacks in the 1940s, Deck said. "She argues that American Ne­groes are as diverse in temper­ament and lifestyle as any {other ethnic group). What dis­tinguishes black Americans from the rest of society is its culture and its world view, not racial politics or skin color." 
Richard Wright, author of Black Boy, portrayed a much less positive view of Black America than the cultural ele­ments of Hurston's narrative, Deck said. 
"His strategy was to make white America see just how bleak black life was. He pre­sented black life as an unending state of oppression as a way of pointing out to white America that there was still the necessity for change." 
The next group to tell their story in the communal voice will be the American homeless, Deck predicted. 
Deck, who presented her lec­ture on the first day of Black History Month, teaches Ameri­can literature, women's autobi­ography and black autobiogra­phy at the University of Illinois. 
The lecture was sponsor-ed oy the Notre Dame Dean of Arts and Letters and the Black Stud­ies Program. 

•rt"unninn Historical, Built in Greek 
Style. 2 baths with many extras. 
Friday, February 2, 1990

pageS The Observer 
Rival Christian forces strike truce in Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon {AP) -Ri­
val Christian forces fought to a 
standstill and struck a truce 
Thursday after a three-day bat­
tle that killed scores of people, 
most of them civilians, and 
fillnd hospitals with wounded, 
police reported. 

The two sides pounded each others' positions with tank and artillery barrages Thursday and shells inevitably went astray, smashing homes, schools, hospitals and ehurches. 
"It's a death machine," a woman said. "Victims are lying in the streets everywhere, yelling for help, but no one dares approach them." 
Most of the fighting centered on a cluster of government buildings in Christian east Beirut that house the Justice and Finance ministries. Much of the fighting was house-to­house and some shell-pocked buildings changed hands sev­eral times. 
Police said at least 62 people had been killed and 216 wounded since fighting began Tuesday between soldiers led by rebel Gen. Michel Aoun and Samir Geagea's Lebanese Forces, the largest Christian militia. They said hospitals were packed with casualties, and short of doctors and blood. 
Aoun, who has been dismissed as army commander but clings to his command, attacked to try to gain full control of the 31a­square-mile enclave north and east of Beirut where 1 million Christians live. 
Shortly before dusk Thurs­day. Christian radio stations said Aoun and Geagea had agreed after a "telephone dis­cussion" to begin a truce at 
4:15p.m. 
According to police, the Le­
banese Forces held the 
Ashrafiyeh quarter and port 
area of east Beirut when the 
agreement was reached, with 
secure supply lines to their 
main bases in the Byblos region 
on the 30-mile coastal highway 
north of the capital. 
They said Aoun's forces con­
trolled the eastern and north­eastern flanks of east Beirut and the wooded Metn moun­tains to the northeast. Aoun commands about 20,000 sol­diers and Geagea has 6,000 militiamen bolstered by several thousand reservists. . 
Fighting "noticeably de­creased" after the cease-fire agreement, "but we still have intermittent mortar and ma­chine gun exchanges in east Beirut and its northern sub­urbs," said a police spokesman, who cannot be identified under standing regulations. 
It was the fourth call for a truce since the battle began, and the first to have an effect. 
A report by the Lebanese Broadcasting Corp., operated by the Lebanese Forces, said Aoun and Geagea "agreed that life should return to normal and this agreement should be put into effect immediately." It said they decided, as a first step, "to halt propaganda campaigns against each other." 


GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) ­The dramatic lunch counter sit­in 30 years ago that helped ig­nite the 1960s civil rights movement surprised everyone, even the four black participants who re-enacted it Thursday at Woolworth's. 
"We were scared," recalled Franklin McCain, one of the four college students who staged the first lunch counter sit-in on Feb. 1, 1960. "All I wanted was a Coke and a doughnut." 
"If someone had come up be­hind me and said boo, I proba­bly would have fallen off the 
stool," said another protester, David Richmond. 
When McCain and his three college friends took their same seats Thursday, they were treated like celebrities. A black Woolworth executive gr.eeted them before they sat down to a breakfast of eggs, grits, bacon and coffee. 
McCain, Richmond, Joseph McNeil and Jibreel Khazan, formerly Ezell Blair Jr., were surrounded by dozens of re­porters and spectators when they ordered food from two women who worked there on Feb. 1, 1960. 
Woolworth Vice President Aubrey Lewis, noted that 30 years ago he, too, would have been denied serviee. ''I'm proud you had the courage to open the doors for a movement," 
Lewis said. 
While they waited for their meals, some speetators began singing "We Shall Overcome." Outside there was more sing­ing, directed by the NAACP, and some bystanders carried plac­ards saying "Feb. 1, 1960. It seems like only yesterday but it could be tomorrow" and "The only thing that's worthwhile is change -Remembering Feb. 1, 1960." 


Begin this Monday 
Viewpoint
Friday, February 2, 1990 page 9 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regrs Coccra Rrch lannelh 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .. Molly Krllen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alrson Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr Bernard Brennrnkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Barley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstrne Gill Controller Anne Lrndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICieS of the admtr11Strat1on of etth•u 1nstrtutron The news r_s reported as accurately and ob­1ectlvely as possrble Uns1gned edrtonals represent the oprmon of the maJonty of the lollowrng Edrtor-rn-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor, Executive News Edrtor. Vrewpornt Edrtor Sports Edrtor Accent Edrtor. Photo Edrtor, Sarnt Mary's Editor. Commentanes. letters. and the lnsrde Column present the vrews of therr authors Column space rs avarlable to all members of the communrty and the free expression of varyrng oprmons on campus through letters. rs encouraged 

Ethical traditions within Church need unification 
cal dialogue within the church.Tony Lang Also, I found Curran's views an interesting contrast to theIdeas and Issues Thomistic tradition in which I havP been educated by Notre 
In his recent book, "Tensions Dame's philosophy department. in Moral Theology." Charles Curran wrote, "From the per­Curran analyzes official spective of the gPneral public. Vatican documents and episco­contemporary Catholic social pal letters in order to determine teaching, with its criticism of the ethical methodology of the the United States economic sys­Catholic Church. He finds that tem and of our nuclear war and while sexual ethics are still deterrence policy, falls into formulated in the scholastic what is often called the 'liberal tradition, the social ethics of camp. However, Catholic the Church have taken on a new teaching in sexual matters is methodology. The contrast be­definitely in the more tween what he calls historical 'conservative camp.' " consciousness and classicism is 
In light of the current indicative of the general differ­American political spectrum ence between the two tradi­and the stances taken by the tions. 
U.S. bishops, the American Classicism views certain real­Catholic seems doomed to polit­ities as eternal and immutable, ical schizophrenia. This such as the necessity of both a predicament raises questions procreative and a love aspect in about both the political parties any sexual act, the existence of of the U.S. and about the which is not subject to social or teachings of the Catholic historical norms. The Catholic Church. Some, like Father Church's teachings on birth Curran, would argue that this control, homosexuality, and in seeming inconsistency results vitro fertilization clearly mani­from the lack-of ethical debate fests this classicist approach. within the Church, while others Historical consciousness, would argue that the Church however, tries to incorporate professes a consistent ethic, the current intellectual and so­but that the American political cial trends in its approach. It system is incoherent. is an attempt to discover a 
I realize that in my attempt to unity with the past tradition, articulate the views of Father yet also employ a ·"creative fi­Curran, I will be branded as delity" with that tradition; heretical by some (including what Curran cites as the the­members of my own family). I ologian's ability to combine would admit that I do not agree past church teaching with pre­with many of the positions sent day knowledge. which Curran holds, nor do I The American bishops have think his intransigence in the employed this new tradition in face of Vatican disapproval is their letters on the economy appropriate for a Catholic and nuclear weapons, and even priest. the Vatican has moved away 
However, with little back­from classicism in her social ground in Catholic moral theol­teachings. This shift in official ogy, I found Curran's book en­Church teaching can be found lightening and I would recom­in the gradual elimination from mend it to anyone interested in the papal encyclicals of any understanding the current ethi-specific social utopia, and in 
DOONESBURY 
the present pope's condemna­tion of both capitalism and communism. 
Curran holds that the Church's sexual teachings would be well served by a move to this new ethical approach. He also cit~s this methodologi­cal difference between the way the two ethics are taught as the reason for the inconsistency he first noted. But does Curran go too far with his insistence on 
this new tradition, especially if it sacrifices the scholastic ap­proach? 
If this new tradition is the next phase in the Church's at­tempt to understand the Word of God, why has the sexual ethic remained so firmly rooted in the scholastic tradition? Although Curran attributes it more to his philosophical back­ground, the present pope's re­assertion of the scholastic tra­dition is an indication that 
truth can still be found in the 
logic of Aquinas. 
Curran also does not broach the inconsistencies which exist in American society today. Many claim that the Church holds the only consistent ethic, which often conflicts with nor­mal American political alle­giances. The abortion issue shines a revealing light on these inconsistencies: conservatives support the sanctity of human life in the abortion issue, yet deny that same sanctity in their support of capital punishment; liberals support the dignity of human life in their attempts to lift all persons up to the same economic level while at the same time profane that dignity in their support of a woman's right to choose an abortion. 
Clearly, the American political spectrum faces problems which will be difficult to overcome without substantive dialogue. Today, no such dialogue exists in our government. However, dialogue does exist within the Church, the ethical dialogue of which Curran speaks, and, as members of a Catholic univer­sity, it is our duty to participate in that dialogue. 
The obvious answer to the problem of competing tradi­tions which Curran describes is that the two must be combined. I offer no grand unification theory here, because of both ignorance and cowardice; but together it is our duty to un­derstand these tensions within the Church and draw from them answers which will benefit all of society. Notre Dame must encourage both students 
and faculty in this endeavor, for it is out of these tensions which will come the Word of God. 
Tony Lang is a philoso­phy/P.P.E.Ipeace studies major and is Ideas and Issues Commissioner of SUB. 
LETTERS 

Notre Dame Voices of Faith enrich spiritual community 
This 1989-1990 academic
Dear Editor: 
year, the Notre Dame Voices of
We, the Notre Dame Voices 
Faith Gospel Ensemble consists
of Faith Gospel Ensemble, 
of sixty very talented students
would like to extend to you, the 
from the Notre Dame campus,
Notre Dame Community, an in­
as well as from Saint Mary's.
vitation to "get to know us bet­
Our main purpose is "to enrich
ter." 

the Notre Dame community
Even though our choir has 
through the expression of
been in existence for over 10 
gospel music and to establish
years and has sung at several 
and maintain a spiritual link
masses, services, and other 
between the Notre Dame and
programs both on and off 
the South Bend Christian com­
campus throughout the years 
munity."
(including those in various 
Over the past three years, the
other parts of Indiana and 
choir has grown miraculously
Michigan), we feel that few of 
(from twenty to sixty mem­
you really know about us and 
bers), and we are continuing to
our purpose. Therefore, we 
work hard to secure that spiri­
would like to take a few min­
tual link between the Notre
utes now to tell you a little bit 
Dame and South Bend commu­
about us. 
nity. Our primary method of closing the gap between the two communities is through our annual concert which will be held this Sunday, Feb. 4, 1990 at 7:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. This year's theme is "Safe in His Arms." 
There will be five choirs from South Bend and Kingsford Heights, IN worshipping the Lord with us. Also, Sister Thea Bowman will be present this year at our concert. 
Mary Loretta Murray Asst. Secretary Sonya Smith Secretary Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble Jan.30, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WOK, PR£5/0EJNT6AI!CIA IE ~YS YOU CAN COM/3/f YOU 
AIIANKJN6 
~Z, >t::Vn 60TTO TAK& 5UPACI?lJSS TH/7 80/JVIAN 801<­
'The average man is more
OffiCIAL.~
TH/3 LfJNG VI/31AJ H&R/3.' ~ f)fjf<, CJON A [)156UIS/3 AN/? 1<1{)!3 
IAJOIAJ... 
interestd in a woman who is
01< t.trra<-,811!311 IS60NNA BY 8URRO 250 MIU73 70 A 
51iN/?QfJ4Yt& I R&MOT£3 /t10NA5Tf,R.Y Olf151£J5 
interested in him than he is in a 
70P&RJJ OF CUzt:O, IAJH/3R& YOU 
woman with beautiful legs.'
II/H87H{jf< WOUW M/38TWITH A 
YaJUKE­I?ANKIN6 (j(}V/3/?N­
ITCR M/WTOfFICIAl-. 
NOT! 

~-­
~ 

Marlene Dietrich 
------------~---------------­
-----------------~ 



14th 
COLLEEN CRONIN assistant accent editor 
I 
f this is the 
beginning of 
smnester, it must 
time for the ann 
Keenan Hevue. 
is the fourteenth year for the Keenanites and was a night full of guys in tu skates and oatmeal. 
The Hevue lived up to the name it has made for itself the past. "It is a much more tedmically proficient show: morn sound, more lighting. is a better show already," I>irnctor Dave Vreeland, a senior. 
Those who saw thn show I year. or tlw one tlw yPar be will lw happy to SPP tlw rPt of some of those years' funn acts. Thn golf instructor whc c·onmuwds his mrruits to "always protect tlwir dubs," tlw Flying Zambini Brotlwrs and tlw Physics Gods all m sueeessful returns. The 27 
"Fun with Chester" prove: 
pits NO vs. Miami in the famous wo1 
It Better" features Phil Couri and 
Zambinis" return from two years ag grooving to clips from "We 
-

show combines talent, nology, and Godzilla 
other acts arn by no means in­weeks. They and their staff ferior. and this Hevun alto­screened over 150 acts-more gether shines. Not one of the than any other year-and kept acts is less-than-funny, and the 30. In accepting and cutting evening never lags. acts, they were looking for the 
Very few entities in the Notre best 92 minutes of talent and Damn/Saint Mary's community were not concerned with who escape the humor of the was in the skits. Keenanites. Goldrick. Tyson, Contrary to what most people Malloy, Breen-Phillips, Holtz, think, Keenan does not spend girls who won't say yes, the al­countless weeks preparing the cohol policy and virtually every Revue. Auditions were other rule in du Lac fall victim. announced the first week after 
The acts are not all satirical Christmas break, and the final skits, though. Two original mu­audition was last Thursday. The sical compositions nicely first rehearsal was Saturday, change the pace for a while, the technical rehearsal was and three acts take popular Tuesday, and the second and songs and skillfully change the final dress rehearsal was words to rennet on Notre Dame. Wednesday. 


A few Keenanites also try their This year's Revue is one of voices at impressions and do a the finest ever in the way of first-rate job. both talent and production. and 
Without rPwaling anything. it is unfortunate that not every­orw of tlw bPst acts of the one will have the chance to see HPVUP is tlw intPrnsting rPndi­it. Those who are privileged tion of "Nobody Does It Better." enough to haw those coveted 
Vreeland and Producer Brian tickets are in for one hilarious Gt~raghty, also a senior, put the evening. The audience leaves Revue together in about 2 1/2 laughing and wishing for more. 

:::}.:=:::::: 

. how the seniors love Chester the Freshman. TOP RIGHT: "Wheel of LaFortune" j game. A pseudo-Vanna White is even included. BOTTOM RIGHT: "Nobody Does 1is "dancers" putting any music video to shame. BOTTOM LEFT: "The Flying ) with their death-defying stunts. TOP LEFT: "Fiashdance" features Keenan's best ~t Side Story." 

-

page 12 The Observer Friday, February 2, 1990 
-
'Big AI' Sondej: true grace under pressure 
When I remember AI Sondej, the Pope say that, he might couldn't take time off from the world the world has to kill grace under pressure? I don't this year's winner of the Tom have gone to the Vatican to ask mission he was on. The pre­them to break them, so of want to praise him in a phoney Dooley award, I think of for a donation for food for the sistence of that appeal eventu­course it kills them. The world way that would make him seem Portia's lines in the "Merchant hungry. After seeing AI and lis­ally made it irresistible. breaks everyone and afterward phoney. I want to offer him as of Venice": "How far that little tening to him, the Pope might Still, there were times you many are strong at the broken one who is like you in every candle throws his beams! /So have contributed a chateau or almost couldn't bear to see AI, places. But those that will not way. shines a good deed in a naughty 
two, or a vineyard, or some of and not because you didn't love break it kills. It kills the very What made him larger than 
the kid. You didn't want to be­good and the very gentle and life was the depth of his convic­lieve that the world was in such the very brave impartially. If tion in favor of the poor. Does bad shape that this fine, decent you are none of these you can God call human beings to be­
Father Robert Griffin 
chap really needed to sacrifice be sure it will kill you too but come secular Christs; or do himself so relentlessly. Yet the there will be no special hurry." they lift themsnlves onto that
Letters to a Lonely God 
gentleman was a charmer; and Hemingway counts Christ plateau of grace under pressure he always had a smile, a kind among the courageous and by thPir own bootstraps; or by strong who die young. that self-mliance which is such
world." Big AI was neither little work, and a thank you, whether nor namelike; if he had been, he she no longer uses. you gave him your pocket Hemingway's Christ is a secular a highly-touted part of the wouldn't be remembered as The point is, AI would not change or not. At the end of hero, who has the kind of American Dream? Grace, they "Big" AI. The world he lived in, have been too shy to ask the two years, he collected $25,000, courage that is called "graee say, is everywhere; but is grace as we all know, is more vicious Pope's help, and any Pope who and had everyone's admiration. under pressure." AI Sondej under pressure everywhere? than naughty. hates the thought of children I could fill this page with Big would never have wantnd to be Knowing Big AI makes me 
AI was more of a lantern than going to bed hungry is the kind AI stories which have made him considered a Christ-figure. believe there is. Knowing many he was a candle. We could say of Pope that AI could have a legend. I'll limit myself to Would he be equally scornful of of you makes me hope that of him: "His word was a hugged to his heart. Only AI saying that he died two years himself as a hero who exhibited there might be . 
...... 
lantern unto our feet, and a would have reminded the Vicar ago, heroically and generously light unto our path."; but of that working parents and se-as a firefighter. What I want eourse that's too prayerful, and nior citizens also go to bP hungry. you to remember about AI is World festival comes to ND it's effusive, as though we were I'm not telling you about AI to that he was a student like your-making AI a demigod. Using persuade you to keep his mem-self, who made all the typical PAUL PEARSON that 1~xist around our planet inappropriate biblical imagery ory green. AI is already one of mistakes, and was exposed to accent copy editor through songs, dam~es and tends to diminish AI. However, I the immortals of the Notre all the frustrations that can magnificent costumes." want to sell AI to you as a role Dame myth, and not only to his leave you defeated. He put in Mexico is coming to South The show will include dam·ns model; and so we are trying own generation. Part of Al's time drinking too much, and Bend. from Mexico, the Philippines, thesn metaphors on him for greatness is that he was not a running away from dullness. So arc India, Colombia, India, Colombia. and Ireland. It sizn. His word or example was saint; I'm not even sure he at-Then one day, he saw the light Ireland and nearly :~o othnr will also feature songs from like a lantern showing us the tended Mass. He was not a that never failed him. The countries. countries such as Franee, path we should follow, if we brilliant student or a famous Gospel verse he took most to NO, I am not predicting a Hawaii, Spain, and China. wished to walk in the footsteps athelete. He wasn't a campus heart was: "For I was hungry, massive invasion of immigrants According to Bualuan. "In th£ of the "Man for Others." which politician with a roar that and you gave me meat... to Michiana. I am referring to last few years, the is a description which fits AI as could be heard in Miami, when Inasmuch as you have it to one the annual International International Festival has well as Jesus. But AI was no the Board of Trustees were of the least of my brethren, you Festival. coming to Washington improvt~d tn~mendously. and Christ-figure; or if he was a having a meeting there. Yet ev-have done it to me." It was the Hall Saturday at 7:30 PM. has, ever sinee 1988, truly Christ-figure, he was a secular eryone knew AI Sondej on sight, kind of truth that AI would This event, put together every reached the excellent level." Christ-figure, like Hemingway's and they knew what he stood have used to center his life on, [year by the International Around 170 people from over old man of the sea. for. You couldn't miss seeing whether it were Gospel or not. ~tudent Organization of Notre 30 countries are expect<~d to 
Al's religion was the war him at ~~altimes: at the ~ours ~i~ AI and To_m Dooley have !Dame and Saint Mary's, is a take part in this spectael~. against hunger; what he was o~ the dmmg _halls, collectmg this m common. they never wo-hour show featuring whieh is the I SO's biggest' event 
., 
fighting against was the injus-mcke_ls and dimes to feed the knew when to le! go o~ a good jdances and songs from all over of the year. tice of hunger. The Pope is in s~arvmg people. He could hav~ cause. I wond":r ~f that s why the world. More information is available Africa this week. visiting the giVen M?t~er Teresa a lesson m the Fates had I_t m stor~ for Ramzi_ B.ualuan, ~hai~ma~ }lf at the lntt:rn<~t,iom·t·l ~tudent famine-striken countries. The street mm1st~y. The only ~ppeal them ~oth to die you~g. th_e Festival, descnbes 1t as a Office, which IS loc~tcd on the Popp's lament is: "Too many he used was m always bemg Hemmgway wrote: If peo~le ghmpse at many of the cultures second noor of LaFortune. children are dying." If AI heard there. to let us see that he bring so much courage to this 
'Y///f~./././ff.fJJJ/./J././/ff.ff.f/./././././/_,.,,,,,,,,,,,.,,.,,.,,.,,.,,,,,,,,,,.,_,_,_,,/.J&>f".i'JII'"f.41'i'"i'""'-'"""'"'""'"'"'""'""'"'"""'""'"""~ 
I 
' ~ 
~ e e~~~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 

Feb. s: Debate on Abortion ~ Father James T. Burtchaell, Theology Professor ~ 
~ 

vs Dr. Ellyn Stecker, President of South Bnnd N.O.W. 
~ 

TttEODORE S 8:00PM 
~ 

Feb. 6: Lecture on HuJUan Sexuality ~ 
~ 

by, Father Richard McCormick, Theology Professor 
~ 

LIBitfiitY AUDITOitiUM 8:00PM ~ 
~ 

Feb. 7: MOVIE: The Mission 
~ 

Followed by Commentaries by 
~ 

Father Robert Pelton, Institute for Pastoral 
~

-
and Social Ministry 
~ 

and Father 'I'ho1nas Gedeon, International Hetreats 
~ 
~

CUSHING AODITOitiUM 7:00PM 
~ 

Feb. 8: .Lecture on The Bishop's Pastoral Letter: 
~· 

Economic Justice For All ~ 
... by. Professor Charles K. Wilber, Department of Economic 
ST. ED S HALL. 7;00PM 

Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Shoemaker, the master, retires in style after 40,350races 
ARCADIA, Calif. (AP) -Bill Shoemaker once worked a horse while wearing a tuxedo. Several hours later he donned jockey silks and boots and won the Kentucky Derby. 
Silks, boots and goggles, not top hat, tails and patent leather shoes, go with any mind's eye view of Shoemaker. But when it comes to race riding, The Shoe is The Ritz. 
He handled a whip with the grace of Fred Astair twirling a cane. The main ingredient of his success, however, was not the whip but the hands. Through them he talked to horses, asking them for their best, and he often got it. 
In a career that began in 1949, Shoemaker has won a world-record 8,833 races and finished second 6,136 times and third 4,987 times. His mounts have earned $123,368,024. He has won 1,110 stakes, 263 of them with purses of at least $100,000. 
He'll ride one more time. 
The fadeout in this sunshine land where many stars are of the here-today, gone-tomorrow variety will come Saturday at Santa Anita in Shoemaker's 40,350th race. He will ride Patchy Groundfog in the $100,000 Legend's Last Ride, a one-mile stakes on the grass at Santa Anita. 
"I'm 58-years-old," Shoemaker said. ''I've been rid­ing for 40 years and figure I better get out while I can-in one piece." 
The Legend's Last Ride, a one-time-only event, which will be run at about 2:45 p.m. PST and televised by ABC, does have a Hollywood staginess about it. 
Under the conditions of the race, Shoemaker could pick his mount, then choose two alter­nates. He picked Patchy Groundfog as his mount and Shining Steel and Ofanto as his alternates. A 12-horse field is entered and if all start, the race will be worth $108,850, with $63,850 to the winner. 
If his 1989 world tour and his last hurrah smack of being one big variety show, his career is a docu-drama-the longevity, the fighting back from serious in­jury, the great horses and great rides and, of course, the spice of controversy. Never scandal. 
From the time Shoemaker won his first race in his third attempt on Shafter V April 20, 1949, at Golden Gate Fields until now, nine men have served as president of the United States, beginning with Harry S. 
Truman. The Berlin Wall went up in 1961, the year Shoemaker hit the 4,000-victory mark. Now it has come tumbling down as The Shoe prepares to step down from a horse one last time and launch a career 
as a trainer. 
He's ridden most of the sec­ond half of the century on many of greatest horses of the time. Horses named Swaps, Gallant Man, Round Table, Sword Dancer, Northern Dancer, Candy Spots, Tom Rolfe, Buckpasser, Damascas, Cougar II, Spectacular Bid, John Henry and Ferdinand. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373  NEED 10 tix to Missouri game URGENT!!!! call Dan 2274 NEED 4 MISSOU AND 4 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS! CALL  Top 15 Quotes from Chicago Adventure 15. We have time for Cheers, don't we? 14. Geez, you have small feet!! 13. Watch out for those Irish things!!  A Ia nageuse, Quelle bonne forme vous exhibez en maillot! I need Tickets to the NO-Georgia Tech Men's B-ball game. John  McCORMICKS SATURDAY INTRA VENUS DE MILO " ... they've got armadillos in their trousers!"  
WANTED: 4-6 players to start  12. It's Hedy's fault.  x3584  
BE YOUR OWN BOSS!  AD&D campaign. If interested call  11. Sara farted!!  SUIIIIIEII J08S  
Distributorships, Dealerships, Money making opportunities.  Bob at x1797.  1 0. This is the water tower that survived the fire.  CALLING ALL BAR RATS!! ~ you see DAN COLLINS out this  potJNSELORS-Boys~-W. "'-· I Giril Camp, .......  
Franchises, & Mail order, Detail,  SUBWAY SANDWICHES  Looking for a fraternity, sorority of  9. Steamroll!!  weekend, be sure to wish him a  Top Salary, RnV8diLaurdly, Travel  
send $2.00 to: National Marketing  student organization that would  8. Aah---Choo!!  happy 21st... HE'S FINALLY  Alowance.  
Company, Box 3006, Boston, MA.  Delivery driver-ND/SMC  like to make $500-$1 000 for a one  7. Not now Phoenix, I have a  LEGAL!!  Must love kids and have skill in one I:A  
02130  campuses only.  week on-campus marketing  headache.  the following activilies:  
Good rate + tips.  project. Must be organized and  6. Get your hands off my nalgas!!  Happy Birthday D.C.!!  Archery. Ar1s & Crafts, Baseball,  
TYPING AVAILABLE  277-7744  hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at  5. What's that butterfly thing?  Baske1ball, Bicycling, Cheerteading,  
287-4082  (800) 592-2121.  4. Bill, it's pack, not box.  Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Gall,  
3. OK, maybe Phoenix is a beast!!  INTERNATIONAL  ~-Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback,  
CASH FOR CARS, TRUCKS  Wanted: Ride for 2 to Dennison  ADOPTION  2. My name is Tom and I'm an  FESTIVAL  Karate, Lacrosse, Natuce, Nurses,  
regardless of condition. 277-9954. USED TEXTBOOKS  University. ANY weekend. Call IMolly;;; RENT  Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential.  alcoholic. 1. You drive worse than my ex­wife!!  SATURDAY 213190 7:30PM  Photography, Piano, Racio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailbowding, Sailing, Scuba. Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski,  
AT A DISCOUNT!  Please call Hanna & Mark collect  WASHINGTON HALL  Weights, Wood. Men call or write:  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  (212) 864-5512  Camp Wlnadu, 5 Glen lane,  
corner of N.D. ave. and Howard I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 A PAGE. CALL TANYAAT239­6299.  4 Bdrm home for rent 1122 Blyler Place (616)695-3786 House for 1990-91 school year. Furnished, secure home, 6  The Copy Shop is open late and on weekends. Lower Level LaFortune  DISSER, HIPPO, WARDO, TERRY, WEASAL, KENNEDY; Here's a long distance personal for you. You guys are the greatest and I just want to thank you so much for every1hing, cause I had  Tickets $2 available at the ISO Office and at the LaFortune Information Desk INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL  Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box tn1, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. Food For Hundreds!  
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping. Copies, Cards.  bdrms., 2 baths, competitive rent. Close to ND. 234-6688.  KEYBOARDIST wanted to join established high-energy  the best time. Love, Rhode Island  Food For Hundreds! Food For Hundreds!  
Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/St. Mary's P.O. Box 194  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. FOR RENT; 4 Bedroom home very dean, w /range, refrigerator, fireplace, AC 1019 E. Madison -Near ND  progressive rock/dance band. Good equipment and attitude a must, backing vocals a plus. All interested contact: Dennis #3281 ... Brian #1804 POW/MIA BRACELETS-order in  LET'S START AT 8:00 AND STAY UP LATE. ...  BROTHER MICHAEL, --The students are all over the PLACE!!! And there is NAH-thing the staff can do!!! With affection, Flanner Staff  COMING FEB. 13th TO A RAFFLE NEAR YOU! stay tuned  
Notre Dame. IN 46556 283-4256 LOST/FOUND 1 Lost: set of roomkeys with 1988 National Championship keyring. If found please call x1419  Student R1te .at $200/bednn. -1 mo. call 232-5563 I......._FO_R_S_A_LE__. DEC 350 Computer with IBM compatible printer. Every1hing included. $500. Call271-9810.  dining halls now! Sponsored by Arnold Air Society Daytona Beach largest trip !on campus BpmFeb7 LaFortune ThP.ater 284-4407 jcnnilcr  L.N.O. IV-FEB. 9, Bpm (see your hall rep for info) Daytona Beach Last Chance !Sign-Ups  HELLO MAMBA, DANNY AND MARY!!! GREETINGS & SALUTATIONS!! YOU GUYS ARE TOO MARVELOUS FOR WORDS!! MAY THE SCHWARTZ BE WITH YOU!! DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES -FRIDAY­9:00 GHOSTBUSTERS 11 :30 SLAP SHOT  NO-Missouri basketball Coming soon to an arena near you Hey Folg, Sorry about the ankle. You shouldn't do those 360 dunks with amateurs like us. Folg and T.A.,  
Lost: Men's Signet Ring lnitialsDTC Call David x4779  Encyclopaedia Britannica. Immaculate. Plus year books and Annals of America collection. $500. 271-9810  POW/MIA BRACELETS-order yours today!  8pmfeb7 LaFortune Th~tater li4-+I07 jcnnltcr  -SATURDAY­9:00 GHOSTBUSTERS 11 11 :30 VISION QUEST FREEl  Have a good time at the ham slam party Saturday night. We all know that's why they asked you. Whitey­Safety. Hey and the rest of you  
...AND CHECK OUT THE NEW  guys-no touching or kissing .  
LOST  For sale: Commodore computer,  MENU AT DILLON FOODSALES.  Charitable Chat  
Pair of red wire-rimmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963.  disk drive, printer, accessories and tons o' software. Best offer-must go. John x3584  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY DANNYO.!! LOVE,  SELLING PEOPLE ... IS THAT LEGAL? FEB. 13th  CLUB 23  Whoever took the inflatable DINO from Pop Farley: Please bring him  
LOST?: If you have a navy & tan leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag  STEREO:  11 Ow/ch, dual deck,  S.M.E.XOXO  Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE  back. He was/is a special friend. He doesn't belong to me; he  
that doesn't belong to you,  3 way spks,1 0 bd eq.,seperate  Open for dinner 5 -11 pm  belongs to the Real DINO. Thanks.  
PLEASE return it! Contained checkbook, Sharp graphic calculator. and MANY other  tuner/amp,turntable,case. HARDLY USED! IMMACULATE! Call Tony 289-8020. MUST  0 SONY 3.5" DISKETTE SALE!!! 0 $1.49 each or 10 for $12.99 THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune  Spring Break--RIDE WANTED ·To West Coast Florida Will Share Usuals  Monday to Saturday THE CLUB 23  To Dan, Brad and Eric, our FAVORITE Campus View  
valuble items! REWARD-no  SEE!  tel. 233-4308 (after 4:00pm)  Featuring up & coming bands.  guys:  
questions asked! Please call283­4354  ND SPORTS wall calendar now only $5.0011ncludes action  If in need have faith and pray to Saint Jude.  Don1 miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO'  We don1 know how we would survive if you stopped having those Wednesday  
photos &sporting event schedules.  night bashes! Actually, our  
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz Claiborne leather shoulder bag  Mail order to: AND BOOKS,702 S.Michigan  Parrot Heads Forever!!!  ••••••••wiNTERFEST••••  CHARITY BALL MEETING  GPAs would probably be a lot better! You guys are great!!  
that doesn't belong to you, PLEASE return it! Contains many  South Bend,46618  hiag  TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE  6pm Sun.Feb 4 Sarin Rm Lafortune  Love, Col. W, Melissa  
valuble items, including Sharp Graphic calculator. checkbook, etc! REWARD-no questions  TICKETS  And ... SEAN BROWN turns 21 on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'DAY!  SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES  All interested in helping with the ball or corporate sponsors are welcome to join us.  Rm. 244 Farley  - 
asked! PLEASE call 283-4354 anytime! WANTED  WANTED: 2 KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR SAT NIGHT. WILL TRADE ·2 TIX FOR FRI NIGHT. CALL JOHN AT 1158.  AVOID THE RUSH! AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! COME IN TO THE OBSERVER  ••••••••wiNTERFEsr••• FEBRUARY 4 -10•••••••••  We need you, so give and have a ball!  In 1986 the Board of Trustees promised to divest but didn1. Thursday, Feb.B they meet again. Join the AAN at 12:15 Thursday for  
CAMP STAFF: 21 +,Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts. Some key positions avail. Also: WSI, lifeguard, arts & crafts, all land and water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, tennis, archery, photography, computers,  HELP ME OUT !!! I WILL TRADE MY TWO FRIDAY TICKETS FOR KEENAN REVIEW FOR TWO SATURDAYTICKETS. CALL CHRIS AT X. 1692. THANKS!! NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853  SOON TO ENTER YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. FUNK/DANCE BAND seeks bass player and horns. Contact Brad @ 277-3666 or 283-3745.  You heard them as Life Is Elsewhere, now re-live the rockumentary. INTRA VENUS DE MILO McCormicks ...... Saturday night " ... ~goes to eleven ..."  BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, includes meals, parties, accomodations, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel1-800-638-6786.  a vigil and demonstration on the Fieldhouse Mall. Come because you hate Apartheid and Because you love Notre Dame. A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY PETE For a 22 year old yankee,  
model rocketry, guitar, radio, video. yearbook, newspaper,  I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259  RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend.  MAURA LONG!!!!  you sure know your sugar!  
wilderness. woodwork, RN typist. 6/18-8120. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester. NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP.  HELP! I NEED 4 Georgia-TECH TIX PLEASE CALL DON X1723  Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Cal1219-262-1581.  INTRA VENUS de MILO "bring needles ..."  How's London? Has your shower broken yet? We miss you--and London. Don't study. CLC  love, A Secret Admirer  

Friday, February 2, 1990

The Observer
page 14 
Eck Doubles Classic first competition of year for women 
University of Kentucky. Also the coach. " I'm hoping to get Barton and Anne Bradshaw. Irish past rival Northwestern in
By BARBARA MORAN 
contending for top honors in one of our teams into the finals, Barton finished 13 -2 last fall, their matchup next Sunday.
Sports Writer 
the 11-team field .will be the but it'll be tough. There will be and is currently ranked 29th in University of Hawaii and Big 11 teams there with their the nation. Louderback expects Northwestern holds the fourthThe women's tennis team will Ten powers Illinois, Ohio State, number-one doubles teams all the Cincinnati native to be his spot in the regional preseasonface its first test of the new and Purdue. in the same bracket. top player for the spring sea­rankings, one slot above fifth-year at the grueling three-day 
"We're just hoping to play son.
Eck Doubles Classic this week­place Notre Dame.
First-year coach Jay well. The last couple of daysend at Eck Pavillion. 
"We've had some good prac­
Louderback is cautiously hope­have been rough in practice, "Tracy can hit everything,"
Beginning today at 8AM, the tices and the girls have been
ful concerning his team's and the girls are ready to start said the coach. "She has a good
Irish women will pit eight of chances in the upcoming playing matches." serve and one of the top four working hard," saidtheir doubles teams against Notre Dame will place its forehands in the country." Louderback. "I think we'll have some of the top pairs in the re­Classic. 
"For this weekend, [our hopes on top-seeded doubles Louderback will depend on a good year." 
gion, including those from Top­20 Indiana University and the 
chances! are hard to say," said team of sophomores Tracy Barton's forehand to guide the 





---~ --------------~-~ ~---­
Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer 
Olajuwon leads Houston ~st Bulls 
HOUSTON (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon had 23 points and seven blocked shots, and Otis Thorpe scored 30 points as Houston enjoyed its best offen­sive output this season. 
All five starters scored in double figures as Houston never trailed in breaking a two­game losing streak to win for the 17th time in 21 home games this season. Houston's best previous output was in a 132­94 victory over Miami on Nov. 19. 
The Rockets, who led 41-21 after one period, also got 13 rebounds from Thorpe and 1 0 from Olajuwon. Sleepy Floyd added 20 points for Houston and Mitchell Wiggins 18. 
Michael Jordan led the Bulls with 35 points, 25 in the first half. But Chicago trailed 77-55 at intermission. Houston's first-period and halftime totals also were season highs. 
Suns 102, Hawks 90 
Tom Chambers scored 32 points and Dan Majerle scored 14 of his 22 in the fourth quar­ter as Phoenix beat Atlanta for its 1Oth consecutive victory at home. 
The Hawks, losing their third straight despite Moses Malone's 25 points and Do­miniqun Wilkins' 21, led 50-46 at halftime and 66-57 with 4;43 remaining in the third period. 
The Suns then scored 15 of the next 16 points, with Jeff Hornacek scoring five points and Chambers and Majerle four apiece as Phoenix finished the quarter with a 72-67 lead it never lost. Majerle then scored the first six points of the fourth quarter to make it 78-67 with 
9:51 to play. 
Knicks 96, Kings 30 
Patrick Ewing scored 12 of his 31 points in the first six minutes of the fourth quarter as the New York Knicks re­gained first place in the At­lantic Division with a 96-89 vic­tory over the Sacramento Kings on Thursday night. 
The Knicks, who fell into a tie with Philadelphia by losing six of their previous seven games. improved their record at Madi­son Square Garden to 18-2 this season and dropped Sacra­mento's road mark to 2-18. But the Kings didn't go down with­out a fight, rallying from a 12­point deficit to lead in the sec­ond half. 
Ewing put the Knicks ahead for good at 83-82 with 6:49 left and scored again 34 seconds later for an 85-82 edge, giving him 12 points in the period. The Kings, who scored only 17 
SOVIET UNION 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 
Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) 
For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
Happy 21st Iris_h Guard Dan O'Grady 

"THE SEASON'S SMARTEST AND FUNNIEST FILM!" 
P>fMII>OCOA!I.... fo¥1 ..,.,.,..1 ..1 

"ONE OF THE BEST OF 1989!" 
"TWO 
THUMBS UP!" 
"DAZZ-LING! 
HIGH-SPIRITED, HiLARIOUS AND SCORCHINGLY 
EROTIC!" 


sex,lies,and videotape 
~~ ........,....._...._________, ~ ,.............._... 
~ 

TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
pomts 111 the quarte:. got no ~~o~er than three pomts after 
a · 

Wayman Tisdale led Sacra­mento with 22 points and Rod­ney McCray added 19 for the Kings. Johnny Newman scored 19 points and Charles Oakley had 16 points and 16 rebounds for New York. 
Bucks 129, Magic 111 
Alvin Robertson had 16 points, 14 rebounds and 10 as­sists as Milwaukee handed Or­lando its 16th loss in its last 17 road games. 
Michael Ansley led the Magic with 24 points. Otis Smith scored 19 points, including 16 in the first quarter for Orlando, which has lost 16 of 19 games against Central Division oppo­nents. 
Ricky Pierce and Paul Pressey added 15 points apiece for the Bucks. 
Leading 68-53 at half. the Bucks cruised after a 16-6 third-quarter spurt. Robertson Jed the charge when he scored on a rebound in the opening minute of the second half. Jay Humphries closed the surge with a steal and basket to give the Bucks an 84-59 lead with 
4:32 left in the quarter. 

SPECIAL CHINESE 

13-of-37 shots (37 percent) in the second half. Of course, by
Billikens 
that time, the game had long continued from page 20 since been decided. 
"In the second half, we came 
Nowlin led all players with 10 out a little lackadaisical, but 
rebounds. our defense was fairly good," 
After shooting 62 percent in said Robinson. "It was a step in 
the first half, the Irish hit just the right direction." 
Spring training outlook bleak 
NEW YEAR BUFFETJan. 21,29 5-9 pm.half price 
ALL YOU CAN EAT Jan. 28 11:30Lnt.-8p.m. 
Includes Soup. Appet1zer. 8Entrees and Dessert (Other menu items also available' 
130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's lnnl 
Summer 1990 Like children? Like the Outdoors? Like Water Activities? 
Be a counselor in Pine River, MN at CAMP FOLEY We will be at SMC Feb 1 9:00-4:00 LeMans Lobby We will be at ND Feb2 9:00-4:00 O'Hara Lounge LaFortune 
Now hiring counselors in 14 areas including swimming, tennis, sailing, and many more. 
Questions? Call Mike 283-3508 
NEW YORK (AP) -Even as negotiators for baseball owners and players reached their first, small agreement, the chances that spring training will begin in two weeks grew bleaker Thursday. 
Owners representative Chuck O'Connor said flatly that camps will not open unless there is at least an outline of a new collec­tive bargaining agreement, and 
Children under10 

union head Donald Fehr said the players were prepared for what would be baseball's sixth work stoppage since 1972. 
Meanwhile, the two sides at least agreed on $25 a day in outside housing expenses once spring training does begin. 
The first players are sched­uled to report on Feb. 15. Asked what would happen if there is no agreement by then, O'Connor said flatly, "The camps will not open." 
Sessions are scheduled for Friday and the first three days next week. O'Connor will then give owners a report on the la­bor situation next Friday in Chicago. 
The sides are bogged down over management's revenue­sharing proposal, which calls for players to get 48 percent of the money from tickets and broadcast contracts. It is linked to a pay-for-perfor­mance plan that would elimi­nate salary arbitration. 
Fehr said the owners' insis­tence on their revenue-sharing proposal "almost suggests they don't want an agreement." He said parts of management's plan "get you to completely ab­surd results." 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
-

page 16 The Observer Friday, February 2, 1990 
I Track team plays host at Meyo Invitational, 'Meyo Mile' 
Conference meet, which took The "Meyo Mile" promises to NOTES -Seven Notre Dame
By DAVE DIETEMAN 

Sports Writer place last Friday at Notre be the highlight of the track athletes qualified for the Dame. The victory was the sec-events. "There should be lots of ICAAAA (Intercollegiateond in a row for the Irish since emotion for the Meyo Mile," Association of Amateur 
The Notre Dame men's indoor rejoining the conference at the commented coach Piane. "There Athletes of America) meet as a track team returns to action start of the 1989 season. is a very good chance for a sub­result of their performances at this weekend when it hosts the The Meyo Invitational will minute mile, which is not some­the MCC meet. The ICAAAA is Meyo Invitational meet in the feature teams from coast to thing you see very often." the oldest athletic conference in Loftus Sports Center on coast, including Arizona, This year's edition of Notre the country, and also one of the Saturday. Field events begin at Colgate, Georgetown, Illinois Dame track is an all-around largest, with a membership of 
11:00 a.m., with track trials at State, Iowa State, Kansas solid team, boasting powerful over 100 teams, most of which 
1:00 p.m., track finals at 1:30 State, Navy, Purdue, middle-distance and distance are from the east coast. These p.m., the Meyo Mile at 1:45, and Pittsburgh, Stanford, runners, as well as talentod teams not only come from con­lirnaI ev,ents at 3.·30 p m Wash1"ngton, and Western sprinters, hurdlers, and field ferences such as the Atlantic
. . The Irish,-led by seniors Michigan. should compete against the Coast, Ivy Leagufl, and Atlantic
athletes. Stated coach Piane,
Glenn Watson, Mike O'Connor, As Irish head coach Joe best in the country in track, Ten, but also from the ranks of
"The season is going really
and Yan Searcy, are fresh off a Piane noted, "The level of com-just as should be done in all the nation's independent
well, and we hope it continues 
season-opening triumph at the petition at this meet will be sports. It should be a heck of a schools, notably Army, Navy.
to do so." 
1990 Midwestern Collegiate outstanding. Notre Dame track meet." and Notre Damn. 
------------~------------------­
Wrestlers ~l~~i~~~~i:~~a~:~i~~l~S~verall Hoosiers coast by Badgers 85-61
ver­
continued from page 20 
The probable lineup for Notre 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (API -Melvin Newbern added 14 Carolina on Thursday night.and Chuck WPavcr helped the Dame this weekend includes Lyndon Jones went from near­points for Minnesota (15-4. 6-3 Tlw Yellow .Jacknts (B-4, 3­
Irish ovPrrome a 15-6 Ohio 118-pound senior Andy 
invisible to near-perfect. Big Ten), Lynch had 13. Willie 4) had lost the thrne eonsecu­
Hadenbaugh (14-2-11 at 118
Stall~ IPad. After a stint on the bench Burton and Jim Shikenjanski tivP games -all in the Atlantic 
As good as Ohio State has pounds, 126-pound sophomore 
during which he playnd only live nach had 12 and Richard Coffny Coast ConfPrtmce and all on tlw wrestled this spason. Indiana !\1arcus Gowens (17-6-1 ), 134­minutes in Indiana's previous 11. road -by a total of liv1~ points.
has been pven better. Tlw pound freshman James Posey 
three games, Jones, a junior Kirk Manns, who led Michi­Tlw loss endnd a five-ganw
lloosiers soarPd to the top 10 (7-6). 142-pound senior Pat gan State with 21 points, at­
and frequent starter. got a winning streak for the Tar 
with irnpn•ssive performances Boyd (23-:3). 150-pound junior 
start Thursday night and tnmpted a 3-point basknt that lleels (15-7, 5-2). who rwv!'r in early-srason tourmtmPnts Todd Layton (17-12), 158­
scored a career high 21 points would have tied the game with rebounded from a poor shoot­like the Las Vegas Invitational. pound ju.nior Todd Tomazie as the No. 22 Hoosiers beat 18 seconds left. But Lyneh ing first half. 
and haw yet to suiTPr a SPtbark (14-12). 167-pound sophomore Wisconsin 85-61, their 20th blocked the shot and his layup 
Marquette 75,

this season. Mark Gerardi (26-4). 177­
straight victory over the with 14 seconds left accounted 
Butler 7:l

Indiana, which currently pound sophomore Curt Engler 
Badgers. for the final margin. 
Mark Anglavar scored 32holds an 8-0 record in dual (8-9-1 ), 190-pound freshman 
Coach Bob Knight said he Ken Hedlield added 18 points 
points as Marquette outlasted
matrhns, eonsistently is a Top Steve King (13-12-1) and started Jones "because of bet­for Michigan State (16-5, 5-3) 
Butler for a 75-73 victory20 !Pam. but th1~ Hoosiers sophomore heavyweight Chuck 
ter play. I thought he played and Steve Smith scored 16. 
Thursday in the MidwPst!'rn
rarnly haw enjoyed the amount Weaver (15-11). 
like we expncted him to play. lie The Gophers, who nevnr Collegiate Confnrnnen. 
of sueeess they have seen on the was very talkative and gavn trailed, appeared to have the After trailing 36-29 at half­
mat this season. Hadenbaugh, Gowens, Boyd, good leadership." game in hand when a 12-4 run time, Marquette (5-2, 11-6)"I think this is the best Layton, Tomazic and Gerardi 
After trailing 6-4, the gave them a 65-53 lead with 
opened a 9-2 run to tie the
Indiana team I've seen," said each won tiHJir individual 
Hoosiers (14-4, 4-4 Big Ten) 8::~6 to go. But Michigan State,
McCann. "Their kids have all weight classes at the National game at :38-38 Parly in tlw p!'­
took control with a 17-7 burst which trailed 45-:34 at halftime,
been together for four years. Catholics last weeknnd. riod.
led by Jones with eight points twice cut the deficit to one Butler (0-7, 3-16) quickly
and this is this thPir year. Although the National 
and Eric Anderson with six rn­point, the last limP at 69-68 
took the lead again, but
They're starting eight seniors Catholics was far from the 
bounds. with 3:03 remaining on a dunk
against us." most competitive event in which Anglavar hit a 3-pointer with
by Smith. 
Notre Dame traditionally has the Irish will partieipatn this Minnesota 79, MSU 7 4 12:57 left to play, tying the had trouble with th1~ Hoosiers. season, McCann likes the way Walter Bond 15 points led six Geoooa Tech 102, score 42-42. Tlw Warriors The Irish have a 1-3 record the National Catholics lit into Minnesota players in double N.carolina 75 never trailed again. against Indiana sinee McCann's Notre Dame's schedule. figures and a key block by Dennis Scott scored 37 points The teams battled to ties of 
Kevin Lynch with 18 seconds and Brian Oliver 34 as No. 17 44-44 and 46-46 before Mar­
left helped the 19th-ranked Go­Georgia Tech ended a three­quette operwd a six-point run.
the latter statement. lie leads
Air Force phers defeat Michigan State 79-game losing streak with a 102-led by Trevor Powell's four
the Irish in goals (21) and has 7 4 Thursday night. 75 victory over No. 25 North points.
a team-leading 38 points. 

continued from page 20 

Although he exp11riene1Jd a tem­they've scored only 81 goals. porary slump himself. he cer­Sophomore Mark Majewsi leads tainly has regained his scoring the team in scoring with 12 touch in tallying five goals in goals and 11 assists. the last six games. 
Air Forcn has two defense­Linemates Tim Kuehl and Lou men that provide a good deal of Zadra rank second and third in scoring ability as well. Senior scoring. Senior captain Kuehl Matt Watson has 11 goals and has :n points (11G, 22Al while I 0 assists, while junior Dan the sophomore leftwinger Greene has added 4 goals and Zadra has added 24 points 16 assists. Mark Leibich is the (10,14). Also important to the leader in the net (5-5, 3.53 Irish offense will be the contin­GAAJ. ued support of Curtis Janicke, 
Pat Arendt, and Sterling Black. Thn Irish have slumped as of 
Senior goalie Lam~e Madsen late. espcdally in the seoring will anchor the Irish between 
department. After scoring an the pipes and give the defense average of six goals per game backbone. Madsen, at goalie, is earlier in the season, the Irish rewriting the record books, but 
are only scoring 3.5 goals a there is still one record that al­game in thnir last 11. Part of ludes this outstanding netmin­tlw reason may be the tougher der: career shutouts. compntition (including national Madsen needs one more pownrs Wisconsin and shutout to reach that plateau, Minnesota-Duluth) as well as a and he is more than capable of long road swing over Christmas keeping the Falcons out of th•e break. For the most part, net. However, he'II need the Coach Schafer isn't sure why support of his ent1re team de­it's happenNL fensively. The Irish must avoid 
"It's hard to say why a batter putting extra pressure on goes into a batting slump. Part Madsen by making him face a
-of it is better pitching. Army number of power plays. was a little better than us, but "l{he untimely and unneces­we had some good opportuni­sary penalties (last weekend ties. We just didn't capitalize. I against Army) concern me as think we're looking for the pic­much as anything else," said ture perfect pass instead of just Schafer. putting the puck on the net." Schafer is hoping the Irish The bottom line this weekend can put forth the enthusiasm is to a come away with a sweep. this weekend that was evident "We don't have any tricks up in a comeback win over our sleeve," said Schafer. "We Michigan-Dearborn and a vic­need to play good sound tory over St. Cloud in games hockey. That means good de­earlier this season. fensive play and taking advan­"It's not a lack of desire to tage of our opportunities on of­, win," said Schafer, referring to fense." the team's inconsistent play. Sophomore center David "But it's a lack of visible de­Bankoske will be important in sire." 

THE OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
0MPUS presents MINISlRY 


LIVING FAITH IN THE FAMILY 
A SUNDAY SERIES EXPLORING ISSUES OF FAITH IN THE FAMILY SETTING 
Nurturing Children 1:30 p.m. in a World of Conflict 
Sunday. February 4 

Center lor Continuing 
Jim and Kathy McGinnis 
Education Coordinators of the international 
Parenting for Peace and justice Network 
Cosponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
As parents and teachers, we want to help children develop 
& 

their fullest potential. which is .aot a.a easy task: i.a our world fraught with co.aflict. This program will i.acrease our 
The Institute for 

understanding ofbow forces like viole.ace, discrimi.aatio.a a.ad materialism affect cbilre.a a.ad explore ways as families to 
International Peace Studies 
resist these forces. 


Fridav. February 2, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
Irish men's tennis back in action 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volunteers are needed to assist youngsters from Logan
at home after two-week hiatus 
Center from 10 to 11 a.m. Friday, Feb. 9, at the McKinley 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
On the wall of Notre Dame tennis coach Bob Bayliss' of­fice, there is a quotation that seems particularly fitting for this weekends matches against Illinois and West Virginia. It reads, "Start by doing the nec­essary, then the possible, and soon you will be doing the im­possible." The source of these prophetic words is Assistant Coach. Brian Kalbas. 
After a two-week break from match play, Notre Dame will have a chance to accomplish the "necessary" and the "possible". The "necessary" will be to take to the road for the first time this year and come home the victors against the University of Illinois, which is ranked seventh in the Midwest region. And the "possible", some may say the "impossible", by returning home on Sunday to defeat the Top 25 Mountaineers of West Virginia at the Eck Pavilion at 3 p.m.. 
On Saturday, The Irish will take on the lesser of two teams. How much lesser is the ques­tion at hand. Illinois is a vet­eran team comprised of four seniors who are not spectacular as a unit, yet they are a dangerous foe. 
"Illinois is every solid, experi­enced team," said Bayliss. "They will make us play to our ability in order to win. I think it is important to do three things: 
1) Adjust to the environment, 2) We must be aggressive without making silly mistakes and 3) We need to keep our cool and not react to a hostile crowd." 
The Irish will have to quickly adapt to the playing conditions of Illinois' home court. The Illini courts are much quicker than Notre Dame's practice courts and are not lighted as well. 
"Our biggest concern is the place," said Bayliss. "We have been practicing at one-third of full power and playing with new balls everyday to help us ad­just." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will take on the impressive Mountaineers. This match will mark the home opener of the 1990 season for the Irish. West Virginia, who knocked off Notre Dame last year in Morgantown 6-3, returns every key player plus the addition of the No. 2 junior college trans­fer, Bob Westoo as well as freshman sensation Mark Booras. 
Perhaps the best "key" player 
on the Mountaineer roster is 
Joby Foley, the No. 11 colle­
giate player. Foley possesses an 
excellent backhand and an ag­
gressive approach to the game. 
Not far behind Foley is Paul 
Mancini, WVU's No. 2 player. 
percent from three-point range. given up the ball a lot, looking 
Henderson's counterpart on for the assist. This allows continued from page 20 the Irish is Joe Fredrick, who (Elmer) Bennett and (Daimon)
always plays well against Duke, Sweet to get into the offense looking for that. A big win on including last season's 21 more. He's been creating things the road-that's a challenge for points in the 102-80 Irish loss. more." 
us. We know what's at stake, His role this year has changed, Bobby Hurley is the play­and we know what to expect." however. Although he is third maker for the Blue Devils, with 
Phil Henderson, a 6-4 guard, on the team with 13.5 ppg., he 154 assists in 20 games and a leads the Devils in the scoring is more of a playmaker than a 9.9 ppg. average. Tim Singleton column, averaging 18.3 ppg. He scorer this season. (88 assists) starts at the point leads the Devils in the perimeter "Fred's played very unselfish for the Irish, but the changing game as well, shooting 48 basketball," Phelps said. "He's of the guan!s a!Jd_small for-
Duke 
~~~~Rn_...... 
Teaching math or science as Peace Corps Volunteer, you will a Peace Corps Volunteer will handle responsibilities and meet develop your professional skills in challenges far greater than the classroom and beyond. You those that might be offered in a might teach basic math to rural starting position in the United students in Belize ... and after States. When you return, your school set up a vegetable gar­Peace Corps experience may den to improve nutrition. Or be open new doors to you. Educa­assigned as a physics teacher tional institutions, international in Lesotho. In addition, help firms and government agencies local women market handicrafts value someone with your to earn school fees. As a experience. 
~ars of PEACE CORPS 
The toughest job you'll ever love. 
See our free film Thurs., Feb. 8th at 7 p.m. in the Center For Social Concerns. Interviews, Wed. & Thurs., Feb. 21st & 22nd in Career and Placement Services. St. Mary's interviews, Fri. Feb. 23rd Counseling & Cereer Developing Center. 
School swimming pool. Call Logan Center at 289-4831 or Dennis Stark at 239-5983 for more information. 
Free squeeze bottles will be given to the first 500 fans at tonight's wrestling meet against Ohio State. Match time is 7:30p.m. 
Tonight is college night at the Notre Dame-Air Force hockey game. Students get in for $1 with an ID. The mini mites will perform Saturday night. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 
Both of these players have "We have a chance to make a beaten Notre Dame's No. 1 dent towards our goal of mak­player, Dave DiLucia this year. ing the NCAA tournament," 
"Mancini, Foley and Brad said Bayliss. "West Virginia has Kelly (WVU's No. 3 player) will been in the tournament for the play professional tennis," said past three years. And if you Bayliss. "Mancini is a crafty beat teams that have been in player with a big forehand as the tournament, it will defi­well as a tough competitor. nitely help us. We will accept Brad Kelly is a very aggressive our results as long as we play player who hits the seams off solid and within ourselves." the ball." 
wards includes Bennett, Sweet, and Jamere Jackson. 
Duke's frontcourt includes 6­11 Christian Laettner, who leads the team with 9.2 re­bounds per game and is second in scoring with a 16.8 average, and Alaa Abdelnaby, with 13.7 points and 6.2 boards per game. 
"Knowing how well Duke is playing. especially at home, this is the best I've seen their talent play to their potential," Phelps said. "It's a typical Duke team. They play very well with their motion offense, and their inside game with Laettner and Abdelnaby, that's a plus." 
But that Duke frontcourt will . 
have to face Notre Dame's strength: the inside game. Senior center Keith Robinson is averaging a steady 15.4 points and 6.6 boards per game. Forwards LaPhonso Ellis (12.2 rebounds, 16.2 ppg.) and Monty Williams (4.1, 8.4), when com­bined with Bennett and Sweet, have been tough on the opposi­tion in the inside, but can also 
run the fast break. 
"Ellis has been dominating," Phelps said. "He's been getting the defensive rebounds to trig­ger the transition we've been looking for. He's strong with the outlet, he's got good vision. He's back into his game." 
February Service Specials Killilea Has Done It Again Front or Rear GM Brakes at 1985 Prices $79.95 each (86-89 Toronado models $10 extra)  
Includes: Factory Disc Pads or Shoes Turn Rotors or Drums and Pack Wheel Bearings, if required (rear return springs extra)  ..  
Ends Feb. 28th with 22 pt. safety/service inspection  
- 

page 18 The Observer Friday, February 2, 1990 
Teamwork makes this ND team one of best in the country 
By CHRIS RLLIO Sports Writer 
Molly Sullivan was a four­time All-American while at Notre Dame. In addition, she earned the gold medal at the Pan American Games and was a 1988 US Olympic team member. She was the last captain to lead the women's fencing team to the national championship back in 1987. Many a story since her departure has begun, "Despite the loss of Molly Sullivan, the Irish women's team... " 
But this year's team is no longer at a loss. The only ones with feeling of loss are the likes of North Carolina, Temple and Columbia. They are at a loss to describe what they have just
I 
been hit by after the Notre Dame women's team stormed into town, tarnishing their
f 
I 
pride and stealing their lime­light. 
Fencers 
continued from page 20 
travel to Detroit to face Tri­
~ 
State. the University of Detroit, Eastern Michigan University, Cleveland State, and the University of Michigan. The teams will return home for Sunday afternoon's match-up against Midwest rival Wayn1~ State. Tlw Spartans have a contingency which may include several international fencers, including girls from West c;ermany and Italy. 
"They'll bP at least as good as last year," said DeCicco, "But I think this year we will be able to answPr that with our consis­tency on the fencing strip. Our girl's squad is rPally solid. I'm 
If you wanted to single out a dominating force for the women this season, you could probably sum it up in two sim­ple words: Anne Barreda. No, make that Heidi Piper. No, maybe Kristin Kralicek. Wait, Lynn Kadri. How about one simple word instead? 
Teamwork. 
"I think this team is ready for this weekend," said head coach Yves Auriol, in regards to the upcoming match-up against a strong Wayne State team. " This team is very close, and Anne Barreda is an excellent leader." After dismantling some of the best eastern teams, Wayne State could be the last hurdle on the way to the title. 
"If we beat [WSUJ. that should be an adequate indicator of how we should fare over the rest of the season," said Auriol. 
Barreda. a senior out of Peabody, MA, is returning to 
not particularly worried." 
Senior captain Anne Barreda will lead a womp,n's squad that has both a wealth of experience and talent. Classmate Kristin Kralicek could be in the process of one of her best season's so far, while sophomore Heidi Piper is already exceeding the Irish coaching staffs preseason expectations. Junior Lynn Kadri has been the solid num­ber-four fencer for the womP.n, but not without pressure from undP.rdassmen Tara Kelly and Hache! Haugh. 
"I think we have six or sevP.n girls right now that no other team in the country can match [individually]." said women's head coach Yves Auriol. "We're able to substitute quite easily the Irish lineup after taking last season off to study abroad. She has seemingly grasped the reins of control in an effort to make up for lost time. 
"We've definitely got the con­sistency that we've been looking for," said Barreda. "This year, we've really become a team. a solid team." 
Senior Kristin Kralicek has been the model of consistency for the Irish, amasssing a 98­21 record in three years of competition. The winner of last year's women's foil MVP award, Kralicek could be well on the way to her best season yet. 
"I'd agree that this is proba­bly her finest season," said Auriol. "And best of all, the girls are winning as a team. That's what the idea of team competition is all about." 
Sophomore Heidi Piper has already exceeded all expecta­
and have that depth that we've always been looking for." 
Indeed. as Coach DeCicco has on numerous occasions re­marked on past teams' lack of dPpth. But this year, they're playing a diffemnt tune. 
"Over the past years. we've been looking for the necessary depth," said DeCicco. "Nothing hurts a squad like the lack of dP.pth." 
The men's foil team is per­haps one of the most solid in recent year's. Seniors Jo!'l Clark and Derek Iloleman are both three-time monogram winners. with combined records of 157-15 through last s1~ason. Freshmen Noel Young and JeiT Piper are the perfect comple­ment, with fresh talent to add 
Notre Dame Weekend Sports 
Friday Wrestling: ND vs. Ohio State, 7:30p.m., JACC Arena Hockey: ND vs. Air Force, 7:30p.m., JACC Rink Saturday Indoor Track: ND hosts Meyo Invitational, 10:30 a.m., Loftus Hockey: ND vs. Air Force, 7:30p.m., JACC Rink Sunday Men's Tennis: ND vs. W.Virginia, 3 p.m., Eck Pavillion Fencing: ND vs. Wayne State, 3 p.m., JACC Fieldhouse 
Ul ~~~~t~ ;;::;::::;::i;:~:~;;::;::~-;::;::; 
!CLUB 
Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
-
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 

Questions? Call: 239-7 521. 
=:==::!/' 

tions, going above and beyond what the coaching staff ex­pected. The Australian has con­stantly placed pressure on Barreda, in an attempt to establish herself as one of the top women foilists in the coun­try. 
"Heidi has already done more than we looked for," said Auriol. "Her consistency has certainly been a plus." 
A perennial problem in years past has been depth: the num­ber three, four and fifth spots. Not this year. 
Junior Lynn Kadri, freshman Mary Westrick, and sopho­mores Tara Kelly, Rachel Haugh and Kelly Haugh have made clear their intentions to make a serious contribution to this year's team, much to the delight of Auriol and the rest of the coaching staff. 
''I've always known that AnnP. Barn~da would makn a run for 
to the squad. And thP.n then~·s Phil Leary, the outstanding ju­nior out of Elizabeth. N.J. who has quietly become the most consistent and depPndable foilist on the squad. 
"Hight now, if I had to pick four foilis'ts to go to thP NCAA's, I wouldn't know what to do," stated DPCieco. 
Sabre has bPen anotlwr pleasant surprise for DeCieeo this year. Junior Leszek Nowosielski retunwd to the Irish after a sP.mest!~r off. fol­lowing two superb undefeated seasons. Almost as imprPssiw is classmate Davp, Kirby's two­year rneord of 42-2. S1~nior Dan Yu is wPII on his way to his fourth straight IPtter. and brothers Chris and Ed BaguN arn a powerful !Hw-two punch for any team. In addition, freshman James Taliaferro has been surprising in his first year of competition. 
Ilowever. if the Irish arn to have any hopes of vying for the national title, they will rwed to the individual gold medal," said 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "But right now, I'm not so sure that she won't have to beat a few of her own teammates on the way. That's how solid the women's foil team is. If they can fence competitively with each other during practice, then there's no doubt in my mind that they can fence with the best in the coun­try. It's as simple as that." 
Wayne State University will roll into town on Sunday in an attempt to spoil the party. bringing with them some of the most talP.nted fencers from the world over. Past experience has proven this showdown to be a critical benchmark for both teams as the regular s1~ason winds down. A victory against the Spartans on Sunday af!Pr­noon could lmtve littln but dns­tiny between the womp,n and anotlwr NCAA title. 
mateh the Eastern powerhouses with a team from Paeh weapon eompPting. Because of tlw NCAA tournament structure. only two squads in each wPaJHln qualify from tlw MidwPst. So far. thP Irish an• prPtty good bets in sahrP and mpn's and women's foil. And tlwn tlwrP's PpPP. 
SophomorP David CaldPrlwad and senior captain Mark c;ugPI arP both solid pPrfornwrs with plenty of past experiPneP. llowPvPr. tlw Irish are still looking for sonw valid con­tPndPrs to rival the depths of the otlwr squads. 
WhilP tlw Irish have aln~adv been tPstPd by sonw lop-noteh teams this season. this wePk­Pnd's aetion will give thPm an idea of how tlwy stand in tlwir PITorts to plaeP four teams in tlw NCAA tournanwnt March 24-2S. Tlw honu• llii'Pt on Sunday will begin at I :00 p.m. in thP fnnring gym, aboVP (;atl' 4 of the JAC:C. 
NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Sun. 
(711J;IliY 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 2, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD
MENUS 

ACROSS 30 Added upper 57 K? melody
1 Second-string 61 Westcott's 
33 Nostrils
coli. teams "David-"
Notre Dame 35 Emulate Minnie 
Roast Top Round 4 Author Dinesen Pearl 62 "The Republic" is his work 
Sweet & Sour Port over Rice 8 College Station 361? 
student

Vegetables Marinara 40 Catlike creature 63 Mrs. Gump 13 Little island 
Gabby Crabby 41 Nerds, to Don 64 Nitti, to Ness 
14 Pitcher Ryan Rickles 65 Town west of 
St. Mary's 16 Honeydew, e.g. 42 Planting aids 
London
Veal Parmesan 17 B? 45 Many a West Coast giant 66 Feminine suffix 
Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 20 "You..bet your 49 Rainy mo.
Baked Cod Di)onaise Deli Bar ("Laugh-In" line) 50 Molecular 
DOWN
building blocks 21 Makes amends 52 "This one's 1 Kareem 22 Crooked 
Abdul--of 23 Stingy soul N.B.A. fame 
53 Rhythmic 25 Lusitania's last dances 2 Manly 
LECTURE CIRCUIT gasp 56Asia's­
3-adime 28 Began again Mountains 
4 Racing city, for 
Friday, February 2, 1990 
short 5 Piglet's mom
12:15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Challenge of Gender Studies 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 In the manner of
at Notre Dame," by Dr. Kate Halischak, Room 124 CSC. 
7 Snug canoe
Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
8 Cry of assent 8 p.m.-Lecture, "Search for Truth: Catholics in Higher 9 DNA's milieu 

Education," by Archbishop Rembert Weakland of Milwau­26 Rare fellow 37 Always 48 Condescends 
-.~~~~-· 10 Gliding step, in
kee, at the Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by 111!!1 ballet 27 Cardinals' 38 Bulblike stem 51 "-mio" insignia 54 Skunk cabbage, 
Student Government for NASCCU conference. ~~'f'!"' _..,;.-+:::+.=;-~ 11 Tennis coach 39 Beholders have Tiriac e.g.
29 Ralph of "The them 55 Words of 
Saturday, February 3, 1990 ~='+='~~ 12 Part of Gr. Br. Waltons" 40 Ark. joined this wonderalliance-:+.:::t:::-t:-+=-1 15 Famous 31 Church council 561n a bit
Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 43 Playwright Ellis 
32 Gloucester

!~t!t~~· 18 Added as a 57 That lady 
supplement sheep 58 Bather's goal 
1:45 p.m.-Lecture, "Academic Freedom and the Stu­7+.::+.::+=-i 19 Stoma 34 Crafty 44 Bend 
59 Herriman's was

dent," by Rev. James Heft, provost of the University of 
~~+=-! 23 Makeup mogul 36-Gies, Anne 46 Prompt Krazy
Dayton. Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Westmore 
Frank's 47 Men from 60 D.D.E. 's area of Student Government for NASCCU conference. ,;,;,&,;~~ 24Fancy protector Muscat command 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


·~ Notre DameStudent Players
MOVIES  Cushing Auditorium  ~ ~  Auditions for  
Tonight:  @)Jr  s:oo & 10:15$2 00. I1@\r]E  \  ~ ~ ~ ~  THE FANTASTICKS Februruy 5th and 6th We need Actors and Musicians  
Saturday:  ~ ~  Sign up for a time at the SUB Secretary's Desk, 2nd Floor LaFortune,  
~  by February 2nd.  
~Please prepare a song, not a monologue.  
~  
~  
~­ 

p220 Sports 
Women's basketball, unbeaten in MCC, blasts Billikens 

By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 

If the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team is to continue its thre1~-game winning streak, it's going to have to do it against the fifth-ranked team in the country, in one of the hardest places in college basketball to leave with a win. 
The Duke Blue Devils play in Cameron Indoor Stadium. The Blue Devils' crowd is among the wildest. and definitely the most creative, in basketball. Last season. Duke students camped out in front of the stadium for a week, anticipating the Duke­North Carolina game. Inside (he stadium, they always have a 
our game and not play to their level." 
Notre Dame had five of its eight players score in double figures. Krissi Davis had 13 points. Lisa Kuhns added 12 and Coquese Washington scored 11. Lynette Krzyzewski, the niece of Duke coach Mike Kryzyzewski, led the Billikens with 12 points. and Julie llaeker-Buehne followed with 11. 
Washington finished with a double-double, dishing off 11 assists to match her scoring total. 
"Coquese ran the break ex­tremely well," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "We did a lot of good things. Sara shot the ball well. and Krissi played a good game." 
Liebscher shot 7 -of-7 from 
the field, while Davis was 6-of-

Fencers on quest for national title 
By CHRIS RLLIO 
Sports Writer 
If at all possible, the Notre Dame fencing teams will at­tempt to give an encore pre­sentation to their mid­January championship-eal­iber performance against 
Fencing teamwork I page 18 
Columbia, Duke and Penn State. In their first home moet of the year. along with a day's work at Detroit's Tri-State University, the Irish will seek to find that 
clever, different, or just plain sick tribute to the opposing team. 
"The Duke sixth man has al­ways been an obstacle," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said. "It's great to see the students get involved. We just have to block it out and go after the game." 
Sunday's 4 p.m. game pits the 17-3 Devils against the 11-6 Irish. Duke has proven itself against tough competition, even without senior captain Robert Brickey, who has missed eight games with a knee injury. But Brickey is expected to return against the Irish. 
"That's been the thing that's impressed me, that they've 

8 before leaving the game with a bruised back. The injury did not appnar to be anything that would keep Davis out of Saturday's game at Evansville. 
After the two teams alter­nated baskets for the first few minutes, the Irish went on a pair of spurts that put the game out of reaeh early. Notre Dame went on an 11-2 run, led by Hobinson's six points, to give the Irish a 17-8 lead. 
Then, when baskets by Billikens Missy Keirn and Kelly Frazier made the score 17-8, Notre Dame put on a 16-2 surge that extended the lead to 33-14. Liebseher had six points during that time, including the first and last baskets of the outburst. 
Saint Louis, which committed 32 turnovers during the evening (16 in each halO. never threat­ened again. 
"Every game we've playnd, wn have turned the ball over too much," said Saint Louis coach Steve Cochren. "Notre Dame is without a doubt th11 bP.st team in the conference." 
McGraw said afterward she did not expect her team to suf­
fer from  any  kind  of letdown  
against  the  MCC's  cellar  
dwellers.  

"Wp,'ve already had our let­downs for the year." said the third-year Irish coach. "We need to win every game if we want to go to the NCAAs. We can't just win -we have to dominate the rest of our games." 
Notre Dame's final eight games come against MCC oppo­sition. The Irish are winning their conference contests so far by an average of just under 24 
The Observer 1File Photo 
11-5 defeat to Ohio State. 
Though the Irish have proven their merit on the road over the course of the season, this will be their first opportunity to strut their stuff in front of a home crowd. It could be just the impetus that they need to carry them through the rest of the season on a high note. 
"A win here would rnafly consolidate us as a team, " said DeCicco. 
On Saturday, the Irish will 

see FENCERS I page 18 
points pPr game. 
Th11 Irish. who had a 25-point 
lead on tlw Billikens at half­timP., P.XtP.ndPd the IP.ad to :{6 on a couple of occasions in the second half. Notre Dame outscored Saint Louis 14-4 in tlw first sP.ven minutP.s of that half. 
"ThP. first eouple of times we had the ball in the SP.cond half, we came down and missed shots inside." said Cochren. "If we'd made those types of shots all night. it might have bn11n a little dosP.r. W11 got inside pr11tty P.asy. I was surprisnd by t~w ~ay wn were abln to get in­Sidn. 
"Dnfensively, we were aver­age," McGraw said. "Wp didn't rebound very well." 
Irish forward Margaret 
see BILLIKENS I page 15 
Air Force in for two vs. Irish hockey 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
Afll~r bPing swPpt by Army last w1wknnd. tlw NotrP Danw hockpy tnam may not lw looking forward to racing anotlwr service school. 
ThP Irish. hownvPr. an; dPs­perately in 1wnd of a win as they facl' tlw t\ir Forrn Falcons who will bn visiting at tlw .lt\CC Friday and Saturday. Both games will bngin at 7::W. 
Th!~ Irish split with tlw Falcons ParliPr this SPason in Colorado Springs. winning 4-2 and losing 4-:{ in overtime. In thP latter ganw the Irish ralliPd to a 3-3 tie, only to losn on a disputed call. A shot that had hit the rrossbar and then smothered by Lance Madsen was ruiPd to havn rrossed the goal line. 
"Sadly, the rderee made a very bad call," explained !lead Coach Hir Srhafilr. "I have videotape that proves it. But. I guess that's part of the game." 
That aside, this weekend's series should once again pro­vide dose and exciting games. 
"There are lots of similarities between our team and theirs," said Schafer. "They have some big players as we do." 
The 10-1 1-1 Falcons are not not known for thnir goal-scor­ing prowess. In 22 games 
see AIR FORCE I page 16 
The Observer I Steve Moskop 

J~ni~r guard Tim Singleton (left) and the Irish take their three-game w1nmng streak on the road against the fifth-ranked Duke Blue Devils. 




