-----~-------------------~ 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

An Appalachian October Break 
Students march in effort to 'take back the night' 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 

Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community attempted to raise community awareness about the fear of walking at night by participating in Thursday night's campus-wide "Take Back the Night March." 
The participants in the second annual candlelight march followed a path starting in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall leading to the Notre Dame end of St. Mary's Road. In addition to discussion between the participants, five seniors ad­dressed the group along the way. 
Seniors Lisa Keckler and Alicia Sierra spoke to the group in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The purpose of the walk was "to raise community awareness about the fear women and men have walking on the campus at night," said Keckler. 
"I hope that this walk can help take away the stigma attached to taking precautions," said Sierra. 
Such incidents as students making jeers at Safewalk promote this very dangerous stigma. she added. "Many students feel discomfort in utilizing the new Safewalk service." 
Encouraging people to use Safewalk and security services is another purposl' of the walk. "We hope to make these ser­vices more approachable." Keckler said. 
In front of the Administration Building, senior Rita Robinett spoke about not blaming the victim. 
"This problem does not stl'm from thl' victims of attacks," said Robinett. "It stems from the society that allows the at­tacks to happen and from thl' peopll' who arl' thl' attackers." 
Sl'niors Erin O'NI'ill and Mary Sui'
A group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are shown working at the 
Twohy also spoke during the march. At
Community Garden Co-Op in Chavies, Kentucky, during October break. The group 
thl' march's final stop by St. Mary's Road, 
spent the week siding a house and building a tool shed as part of the Appalachia 
Twohy o!Tf•red a moml'nt of rl.'memhrance
program. 
Visiting prof. speaks on effects of viewing today's soaps 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
News Writer 
1\ visiting professor at Saint Mary's dt~sr.ribl'd thl' fppJing of distustP she had aftPr watching soap opt>ras for six hours t'Vt>ry day for stwt>ral WPt>ks. 
"It was in tlw pit of my stom­ach, likP having natPn only rot­ton randy all day," said Huth MonroP. profPssor and rhair of tlw I>Ppartnwnt of Tlwatn• at Drury Colh>g~•. 
MonroP pointPd out tlw simi­laritit•s hf'lWI'f'll soap OJH'ras and nPwsrasts as shf' rPad from hPr sabbatic·al: "TV Dcwsn't llavl' to BP Cotton Candv: Balancing ImmPdiary and Rt>fl(~rtion ... 
Whilt> manv studt>nts mav ar­gut> otht>rwist>. Monnw n;rog­nizPd tlw dangPrs of viPWt>rs "dPwloping n•al rPlationships with lirtional rharartt>rs." Tlw rhit>f audit•JH't'S of soap opt>ras art• lowPr middlt> rlass pt>oplP who livP alorw and studPnts. MonroP argut>d that TV rrt'­ators play on our nPPd to know and givP "insufficit>nt rPprPsPn-

By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
Bryan Liptak will not ht> doing any pushups this wt~nknnd. but it will not lw btH'ausP tlw Irish fail to seorP a touehdown. 
Liptak. lwttPr known as tlw Irish Lnpn~ehaun. brokf' his IPI't arm praetil'ing gymnastics Monday. lin will miss this wPt•k 's ganw against Navy. but said lw anticipatPs performing at tlw TnnnPSSPt~ ganw Nov. 10. 
IIP said tlw injury should not aiTPet his rolf' as a part of the dJt'PrhHuling squad. 
"I won't lw abh~ to do every­thing I plamwd," hn said. "This will slow up my goals for the n~st of tlw yPar." 
Trirks surh as tht> "lwliroptt>r" and eomplicatt>d flips will have to bP put ofT for a whilt~. Liptak said. 
/\s for pushups. on!' of tht> LPprt~rhaun 's traditional dutiPs, Liptak is optimistic. liP will work sonwthing out, lw said. possibly doing ont•-arnwd pushups although "that could bP rPally tough." 
The injury orrurrPd wht>n Liptak was throwing a baek turk and eanw out of tht> move too parly. lit~ uspd his arm to brtHtk tlw fall. and PndPd up breaking both hcmes in the arm. 
"I've bPen doing them (bark tucks) all year." h(~ said. "so it's for the attacks that have happened on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Women United for Justice and Peace, the Women's Concerns Commission of Student Government, the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination and the ND/SMC Democratic Socialists of America sponsored the march. 
Vandal damages CCE, Univ. Club 

By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Three windows at the Center for Continuing Education and one window at the University Club were broken by a vandal with part of a traffic barricade late Tuesday night, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
Building service employees of the CCE heard noises and called Security, Johnson said. When Security arrived, the suspect was seen running to the central part of campus. 
According to Johnson, the suspect is described as a white male of medium build. He stands approximately six feet tall and has blondish-brown hair. Blood was found at the scene of the crime. Security is unaware of any specific injury the suspect may have suffered, Johnson said. 
It is unknown whether or not the suspect is a student. 
Other Security Beat Information includes the reporting of two separate instances at O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. 
According to Johnson, one woman 
see VANDAL I page 4 

tation of thP complt>xitit>s of living." 
Whilt> soaps art> mort> likt>ly to makP thr lowt>r middlt> class' liws "\pss drab." tht>V art> morl' likrly to providf' an ·!'scapi' for studl'nts. SomP critirs of soap opt>ras suggf'st that "ppoplt> art> not satisfif'd with what thl'v'rl' watc·hing and havP to fit tiwir laSh's to what's availabll'." Monro!' said. 
Today's popular soap operas rontain SPVf'ral common char­artPristics that Monrof' has found through ht>r studif's. Shf' idl'ntifit>d interrelated plot multiplicity, melodramatic suh­jt>cts and flat characters that grow and changt> over many Vl'ars. This seems to he the stereotypical formula that draws audit>nces hack to know tht> outcome, said Monroe. 
Thl' formula method is what corrf'lates soap operas to news programs. A series of political and familiar crisl's appear on the news every day that prove we "not only live. but watch ourselves live," Monroe stated. Both mediums, she said, pro­
vide a continuous nature that maintains audience appeal. 
"Thinking and Watching: Popular Culture and Intellectu­als," the three-day lecture and discussion series continues throughout the weekend. 
Robert Thompson, associate professor of the department of communications, radio and television at the State Univer­sity of New York-Cortland, speaks today at 4 p.m. in Car-
see SOAP I page 4 

rNtlly a frPakish sort of thing that it happt>nf'd." 
Liptak was admittf'd to MPmorial Hospital of South Bend and underwent surgery Tut'sday morning. His arm is bandagt>d and bt>ing kept ele­vatPd. which he said is "really uncomfortable." 
I Ie will be released from the hospital this afternoon. but will recover in the Student Health CentPr through the weekend. Tht> arm will he put in a cast Monday, aeeording to Liptak. 
The injury may be used to Liptak's advantage, he said. "I don't think it's going to be much of a problem." 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
SMC Father/Daughter Weekend 
Friday 
9 p.m.-12 a.m.· Casino Night at Angela Athletic Facility 

Saturday 
8:45 a.m.-Five kilometer run and Nature walk 9 a.m. Tennis and Basketball tournaments 11 a.m. Speaker: Father Theodore Heshurgh at Carroll 
Auditorium 
12:30.5 p.m. Optional activities 6-7 p.m.-Cocktail hour at Notre Dame South Dining Hall 
7:30.9 p.m.-Dinner at ND South Dining Hall 
9:30 p.m.-12 a.m.-Dance at ND South Dining Hall 

Sunday 
9·10:30 a.m.· Continental Breakfast at Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 
10:30 a.m.-Mass at Church of Loretto 
Unlucky leprechaun to miss game 

'lo 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



ND 'humor' carries twisted tradition 
The top 10 typical -------­

ND "jokes": 
1. 
"Hey man, look at all those chicks at the Sundae bar and it's not even Sunday!" 

2. 
"I can't wait to go to IU and get some real women. They're 




easy, not like ND • 
chicks. My friend was1Jeanne Blasi there last weekend Asst. Production Mgr. and he ....... " 
3. 
"No, not her. her left nostril is too fat. No, her thighs are too skinny. Now Paulina and those other babes on the wall over there, those are Hot Babes! 

4. 
"Hey, guess what the most unused item in the vending machines in female dorms is? SLIM -FAST! 

5. 
"Have you seen the new "No Fat Chicks" T-shirts? I bought one for every day of the week!" 

6. 
"That girl's HOT! She must go to SMC." 


7. 
"Holy Cow, look at the guns on that babe!" 

8. 
"Hey, did you hear that last year, Walsh's food sales grossed more than De­Bartolo!" 

9. 
"Did you hear the new analogy on the SAT? ND chicks:Fat :: Hot Fudge:Sundae." 

10. 
"I don't understand why girls take ev­erything guys say so seriously." 


The other day, a friend of mine asked why everyone always says that relations between ND men and women are poor. 
Well, I am sure the above jokes don't have anything to do with it. As I thought about these "knee-slappers," I realized that many people do not realize the effects of these seemingly "harmless" jokes. 
For example, imagine being an ND woman at a party and hearing various guys telling the jokes, laughing. and agreeing with them. Even if this woman is perfect, attractive and thin, I am willing to bet that the comments stick in her head. She may become self-con­scious and wonder, "Is this the image I am presenting to the men? Do they see me this way also?" 
It seems to be a tradition at ND to slam on the women. I remember my brother warning me not to be offended by the female stereo­types prevalent at ND and not to take them to heart. He said, "Don't worry, they have names for all of the dorms-Walsh Whales, Bay of Pigs, Past Gorillas-they don't mean anything." 
Boy he wasn't kidding when he warned me. I can imagine what a naive freshman Walsh girl would think upon coming to Notre Dame. In her first year, she would be subjected to all of these "side-splitting" jokes, called a Walsh Whale, and watch merciless slamming of ND women in the Sorin talent show and the Keenan Revue. 
Unfortunately, she probably would not realize that it doesn't stop after freshman year. The same jokes continue every year. 
' They never die. I shudder to think that they1 may be becoming a part of the Notre Dame tradition. 
Let's just hope that eating disorders are not also becoming a part of the Notre Dame tradition. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thuredey'e Steff 
News Melissa Cusack 
Production 
Carrie Amann Jeanne Blasi 
Frank D. Rivera 
Peter Loftus Syeteme Cesar Capella 
Accent Paul Froning 
Brian Grunert 
Fran Moyer 
Robyn Simmons Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 
Clrculetlon 
Sporte Rolando de Aguiar VIewpoint Frank Pastor Denisse Marion-Landais 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 2. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 7 4 Yesterday's low: 52 Nation's high: 89 

(Gage, Okla. and Childress,60 Texas) 
Nation's low: 20 
(Saranac Lake, N.Y.) 
Forecast: 
Partly to mostly sunny, windy and warm today with highs near 80. Tonight's lows near 40. Cloudy with showers Saturday, with a high near 70 and a low near 40. 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
~;"1990 Accu-Weather. Inc 
Pressure
®© ~~~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a ASSOCiated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST 
Right-to-Life of ND/SMC will sponsor a picket today at the South Bend Abortion Clinic. All those interested in attending should meet at the Main Cirrll' bl'­tween 2-2:15 p.m. A second pick-up will bl' at 3:15 p.m. Transportation will be provided. 
The Office of University Computing is holding an opl'n house today from 2-4 p.m. in the lobby of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building. 
Information for the Spring Calendar of Ewnts (Daily Shillelagh) is due in the Student Activities Offirl'. on Friday. Nov. 2. Please include the name of the event. datl'. time. place and sponsoring organization or department. 
NATIONAL 
Lawyers picked a jury Thursday and began testimony in a case of potty parity. Denise Wells, a 33­year-old legal secretary, is being tried for using the men's restroom at a concert. Her trip to the toilet made na­tional news and led to talk-show appearances with Johnny Carson. Geraldo Rivera and Joan Rivers. But on Thursday she was barred by her lawyer and sister, Valo­rie Wells Davenport, from talking to reporters. At one point before the proceedings began, she went to the women's restroom and emerged smiling while nearly a dozen photographers clicked away. 
When Ken Kesey regrouped the old Merry Pranksters to drive across the country and maybe donate his psychedelic bus to the Smithsonian Institution, he had another trick up his sleeve.The bus currently on the road is not the one that drove into the lore of the psychedelic 1960s. It is a newer model incorporating parts of the old 

and the Smithsonian does not want it, institution spokeswoman Madeleine Jacobs said Thursday. Kesey and the Merry Pranksters became heroes when Tom Wolfe chronicled their 1964 trip aboard the bus, named Further, in his "Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test." Kesey was a bright new literary light then from his novels "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Sometimes a Great No­tion." 
WORLD MARKET UPDATE 
President Carlos Salinas dp, Gortari declared Thursday that his rp,form program has propelled Mexico out of its economic crisis, and he defended his decision to negotiatp, a free-trade 
Volume 1n shares accord with the United States. But his comments, 159.06 Million made in a state-of-the-union address, were re­peatedly interrupted by shouts of opposition lawmakers. "We have lp,ft fear and wp,ariness behind," he told this nation of 81 million peopln 
NYSE Index 167.74 {r 1.42
in the nationally broadcast speech. He assured Mexicans their jealously guarded national 
S&P Composite /\. 307.02 l.f 3.02
sovereignty would survive a free trade pact, thn 
Dow Jones Industrials
economic opening of Mexico's borders, and th1~ 
2,455.95 {t 12.62
privatization of state businesses like banks and telecommunications. 
Precious Metals 
Gold {t $1.80 to $383.1 0/oz. 
Sliver {t 7.6¢ to $4.256/oz. 
Mandatory Urban Plunge orientation will be hl'ld Sunday. Nov. 4 for all participants from 4-6 p.m. in thl' Hesburgh Library Auditorium. For more information rail Sue Cunningham at 239-5293. 
Off-campus students may pick up phone books at the student government secretary's office on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune Monday through Friday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

A discernment group has begun for young women interested in religious life. For more information rail Sisters of Holy Cross membership office Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., 284-4466. Ask for l'ither Sr. Marilyn Zugish or Sr. Patricia Riley. 
Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commander of 
U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf, said Thursday American troops could destroy Iraq but such action might not be "in the interest of the long-term balance of power" in the region. Schwarzkopf, who assumed command of more than 210.000 American troops in Saudi Arabia in Augus.t. said war could erupt any time, but he does not expect 1t to. "President Bush has stated again and again. our argu­ment is not with the Iraqi people, and that (military ac­tion) would cause thousands and thousands of innocent casualties." In an interview published Friday by The New York Times, Schwarzkopf said he recommended to the Pentagon that combat units in Saudi Arabia be rotated out of the country every six to eight months. 
Two Canadian women who saved a neighbor from a knife-wielding attacker were among 18 people recognized Thursday by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commis­sion. Grace Nolan and Irene Beaton were among 7.495 Americans and Canadians honored by the commission since its founding by Pittsburgh industrialist Andrew Carnegie in 1904. The commission every year honors peo­ple who risked their lives to save or to try to save others' lives. Nolan, 50, of Whitby, Ontario, and Beaton, 67. of Lindsay, Ontario, confronted a man who broke into the home of a neighbor, Dorothy Blackhall, 72, and slashed her face. Blackball survived, and thp, attacker was plac1~d in a mp,ntal institution, Nolan said. 
ALMANAC 
On Nov. 2: 
etn 1889: North Dakota and South Dakota hPI~amP tlw :~·Hh and 40th statPs. 
eJn 1947: lloward llughPS pilot1~d his hugP woodl'n llying hoat, known as thl' Sprun• Coos!', on its only llight. which lastl'd about a minut1~ ovPr Long Bl'aeh llarhor in Califor­nia. 
eln 1948: Pn~sidl'nt Truman surprisPd tlw PXJINls hy lwing riH~IIH:tPd in a narrow upsPt ovPr tlw BPpuhlil:an rhaiiPngPr, Thomas I>Pwl'y. 
eTen Years Ago: A young hoy found 11111rdNPd in Atlanta hProtnl's tlw I !ith surh casualty in six months. 

Friday, November2. 1990 The Observer page 3 
Computer




Computer system helps writing skills 
By KATE MANUEL posPd to normal oral classroom tial for chang1~. teacher becomes a fellow writer 
open house 

News Writer discussion. DIS was dnv1doped "It serms the hright of arro­in the network, according to as a rnsJHinSP to problPms gancn to say that things havr Taylor. StudPnts «'llll improvP thPir which havn arisc~n in tnaching no n~ality aside from what hu­"Often the students don't get aids users 
writing skills by working in a t·:nglish to studnnts. mans think, but we do shape a model of a writer. Teachers lPxt-basPd Pnvironnwnl with a i\c1:ording to Taylor's lnetun~. n~ality through language," he t1md to be pretty good writers. 
By MIKE DE FRANCO 

community of rPadPrs rathPr "C:ornputnr NPtworks and C:ol­said. "If WI~ chose to change the It can be overwhelming to see a 
News Writer 

than by rPcPiving nitical in­laborativf~ l.f~arning: Tlw Chal­world, wn ean do it by talking book that the teacher has writ­struction !'rom only a tPadwr. lnngn of Tnaching in. a Chaotic to rach other." ten; they think I can't write a The Office of University Com­according to a cn~ator of an l·:nvironrnnnt," tlwn~ an~ thn~•~ Taylor also draws on a book," he said. "If the teacher is puting (OUC) will hold an openinnovalivP c·omputPr instruc­fundarnnntal problnms: heteroglossia theory of lan­willing to show the students house for students and facultytional program. •Studnnts do not comn with guage, a theory which claims there are drafts for the book, 
to better inform them about

"Wp didn't start as an orga­llw background to convnrsn •~f­that now~ls are the height of lit­this gives the student encour­
computer clusters and how

nil.ation trying to build softwarn fnctiv•dy. Thny an~ mon~ rrature because they have dif­agement." 
they can aid the Notre

and movP into tlw compu!Pr familiar with slang than with ferent characters speaking. Computerized discussions Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
markPt," said Paul Taylor, a th•~ languagP of academic • "One work embodies all these have several advantages not 
The OUC is giving this

proi'Pssor at tlw University of discoursfL dissenting voices and the au­present in oral discussions. ac­
presentation so that wpeople

TPxas-i\ustin, and crPator of •Studnnts snn writing as a thor does not bring them to­cording to Taylor. Typically, few 
will be more aware of the

thP DaPdalus Instructional pnrformanen rathnr than an aet gether in a unified statement of students participate in 
various computer clusters

SystPIIl (IllS). of communication. ThPy are the truth," Taylor said. "As a classroom discussions. Com­around campus," according to"WP slarlPd out as a group of lind to a sensfl of lettf~r grades teacher, I am not one voice. I puter discussions require par­Marilyn Van Bergen, projectl·:nglish graduaLP studcmls and without having a srns•~ of writ­privilege the voices of the stu­ticipation by all, and they often coordinator.
faculty working to build a twt­ing for llw rradPr. dents." produce as many different writ­Hours for the open house arelPr rlassroom by using llw dif-, •TPachrrs havn a l!mdP.ncy to ten viewpoints as there are stu­2 to 4 p.m. in the lobby of thefPrPnl strPngths of various nrnphasizP passivP rather than According to Taylor, students dents. 
Computing Center and Math

t·:nglish spPdaltic~s." said Taylor. aetivn l1~arning. They spend often do not have a topic or do The DIS software implements Building.
"Wp l'ocus on studPnls working limn that could bP spent in pro­not know what to say because six different programs that, "I hope this will give studentslogPtlwr lo learn tlw subject ducing tPxts on lecturing about they view writing as an isolated according to Taylor, integrate the opportunity to see what's mattP r, r a tlw r than j us l good writing. act and believe ideas come as with each other to facilitate the 
available and also give them

passivPiy absorbing from tlw Taylor does not 1mtimly agree "revelations from out of the writing process. These pro­
the opportunity to ask

tPadJPr." with thn social npistemic theory blue." rather than from discus­grams include a word proces­
questions," she said. wsome 

DIS is a rompulPr lll'twork of languagn, thP notion that re­sion. sor. a prompter for receiving 
students hesitate to go to the

which allows sludPnls and tlw ality is entirPiy constructed Teaching in an electronic ideas, a revising method. a di­
clusters because they're not

instructor to •~ngage in a dis­through discoursP, but he does classroom is based on a text­rect mailing service and an sure what to do. This is a low­cussion via computPr, as op-fed it offers an nxciting poten-sharing pedagogy in which the electronic discussion program. 
key way to get information." 


Van Bergen said that she hopes that this informational session will make students and faculty more aware of the four new computer clusters that re­cently opened. These clusters can be found in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, Hayes­Healy Center, Nieuwland Science Hall and CCMB. 
As guests enter the open house, they will be greeted by an informational kiosk, an in­teractive computer that will al­low people to find out what's available in the clusters. By moving a mouse to point on the computer screen, guests will be able to find the information they are looking for. 
The open house will feature a ceremony officially opening the new clusters at 2:30 p.m. Don Spirer, assistant provost for University Computing, will be a featured guest speaker at this ceremony. 
A presentation describing all of the clusters' features will follow the ceremony. The open house will conclude with tours at some of the clusters. 
2 students killed in van crash in Ill. 
MONROE, Ind. (API -Two students were killed and six others were hospitalized with injuries Thursday when a van carrying a choir group from an Illinois college overturned on Interstate 65, police said. 
Witnesses said the van, which was carrying 11 students from Olivet Nazarene University in Kankakee, Ill., was southbound on 1-65 near the Tippecanoe County-Clinton County line when the vehicle dropped off the shoulder of the road around 11 a.m. 
Listed as dead were passen­gers Alex Anderson, 21, of North Olmsted, Ohio., and Cindy Langdon, 21, of Division, Mich., authorities said. 
The driver, 22-year-old stu­dent Neal Woodruff of Bour­bonnais, Ill., apparently over­corrected and the van entered the median, flipping over sev­eral times before coming to rest in the northbound lane of the highway, witnesses said. 


.......--~-----~---~ .,.."";,-::­
• t (·..,,.II l I
'l~., .. ,~:'t.f~) ~.,!'.. i' 


page 4 Rebels bomb Japanese police, killing one officer 
TOKYO (AP) -1\vo bombs set by anti-imperial extremists rocked a Tokyo police dormi­tory late Thursday, killing an officer and injuring six people, police said Friday. 
The Metropolitan Police De­partment also found explosives at a second dormitory and a public restroom in western Tokyo early Friday. In central Japan, a gas bomb was lobbed at a police station before dawn Friday, but no injuries were re­ported. 
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu told reporters the blasts were "extremely regrettable and un­forgivable." 
Misoji Sakamoto, the gov­ernment's chief spokesman, said the attackers were guilty of a "despicable" act that called for "all available legal measures to uproot terrorism." 
Police say they suspect the in­volvement of radicals, but no group immediately claimed re­sponsibility. 
The attack comes as Japan is mobilizing its largest security operation to stave off violence by anti-imperial extremists who have vowed to disrupt the en­thronement ceremonies of Em­peror Akihito. 

Soap 
continued from page 1 
roll Hall. He will speak on "Nerds and Snobs: Belletristic Apartheid and the Study of Television." 
Thompson's talk will be fol­lowed by a discussion at Saga and screening of the movie "Dick Tracy" at 7 p.m. in the Little Theater. Immediately after, another forum will be held with refreshments in Sta­pleton Lounge. 
On Saturday there will be a round table panel in Stapleton Lounge at 10 a.m. to discuss curriculum and theory. Subjects will be taken from the introduc­tion to "No Respect: Intellectu­als and Popular Culture," by Andrew Ross. 
Andrew Cutrofello, assistant professor of philosophy at Saint Mary's and director of popular culture, said that there has been "a lot of enthusiasm about popular culture. Students and faculty can draw connections between popular and tra­ditional culture." All programs are opened to the general pub­lic. 

Vandal 
continued from page 1 
heard noises and thought she saw a prowler around 11 p.m. Tuesday night outside her sliding-glass door. It is believed he was frightened away by the woman calling Security. 
A separate instance was re­ported of a woman hearing a man's voice in the lower level of her residence. When she went down the steps, nobody was in the room, but the sliding glass door was open. This report was made Wednesday, but is believed to have occurred around the same time as the first incident the night before, Johnson said. 
Volunteer. 

ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
The Nov. 12 civil coronation is to be attended by representa­tives from more than 150 coun­tries, including U.S. Vice Presi­dent Dan Quayle and Prince Charles of Britain. 
A police official said the three incidents were being viewed as a single campaign by the ex­tremists. 
Police identified the dead offi­cer as Hiroshi Aoki, 48. He died almost immediately after the two blasts. just before 11 p.m .. ripped through the dormitory in Shinjuku, a bustling district that is one of Tokyo's most popular nightspots. 
Two officers were injured, one with a serious burn on the back of his left leg and the other with a broken left arm and two broken legs, according to a Metropolitan Police De­partment official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
He said the dorm's cook, his son and two other police offi­cers also were injured. 
The police official said the type of explosives and other de­tails of the blast were under in­vestigation. The bombs had been placed near a garbage collection area inside the dor­mitory complex, officials said. 
Some employers promise 



you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,c.s.c Congregation of Holy Cress Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

Every Tuesday Night 

FaSJ:llty/Staff bisc~~~iori*crou p 
Ev~.ry We~iresday Night 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1990 
The Observer/Dave Short 
Relaxed reading 

Hao Tran, a senior in the program of liberal studies, enjoys the shade of a small group of trees while 
studying Thursday. 
Our monthly General Meetings are a chance for everyone in our group to get together and discuss upcoming projects, lectures, and events in a friendly and unthreot­ening forum, Alo;1g with provid­ing an opportunity to plan and an­nounce group activities, thl' General Meetings are also a time to meet other people like yourself. 
Our Discussion Groups provid(• a group of peers to discuss the Issue:-. of being gay, lesbian, or bisexu.1l in a world that often misunderstond:-. homosexual people. The Discus­sion Groups sometimes have a tup­ic or theme, but people are alwny.s free to talk about whatever they are feeling. 
The Student Discussion Group is meeting weekly, every Tuesday night. A Faculty/Staff Discussion Group is now forming, with meet­ings on Wednesday nights. 
For more information on any of these meetings, or what our group is all about, please call one of the numbers listed below. 
For more Information, CJJ. 
MlkC 237-07!PI Carol232-3330 J<ihn 259-3157 
t 


t'~ 
Offilfi~ 
and putting Spirit back into life 

Dr, Dwight K, Nelson 
This week: 'Buried at Sea: No More Dredging· 




Friday, November 2, 1990 
Guiltinan appointed assoc. dean 
Special to The Observer 
.Joseph Guiltinan, professor of marketing, has been appointed associate dean of the College of Business Administration by Professor Timothy O'Meara. University provost. 
Guiltinan 's new responsibili­ties will include Master of Busi­rwss Administration (MBA) programs at the University. 
"Professor Guiltinan brings a wide range of pertinent intdleetual and administrative skills to this position. and we're very fortunate to have him here at Notre Dame serving in this newly created position," said .John Keane, dean of the College of Business Administration. 
A I966 ND graduate, Guilti­nan also holds master's and doetoral degrees from Indiana University. A member of the Notn1 Dame faculty since 1987 and former chair of the De­partment of Marketing, he has taught at the Universities of Kentucky and Massachusetts and worked for the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration. 
Guiltinan has done research and consulting in pricing and marketing strategy and been a faculty member of the Ameri­can Bankers Association's Stonier Graduate School of Banking. lie has contributed arlides to several professional periodicals and is author of 
• The Observer/Dave Short 
"Marketing Management: 
Teachmg under the touchdown 
Strategies and Programs" and "Marketing: Contemporary 
A small class in front of the Hesburgh Memorial Library, under the 
Concepts and Practices," both 
watchful eye of "Touchdown Jesus," was one of many classes held 
of which are now in their fifth 
outdoors Thursday, taking advantage of an unusually warm 

ACTORS,FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASHINGTON IIALL THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 ··si-li\i<ESPEARE's-··As· YOU i..IKE·IT 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
(Scenes from 20th Century lnsh fhcatrd Devised by Sam Dale 8:00pm Tickets: $10, SH '-,cnit't Citizens $6 Students 
Tickets arc available ,11 the dl>Pr ur 111 advance ;t thr 

I a Fortune Student Center Tickt·t Ufl" l' M.lstnLarcl/Visa order~ call 239-812H 
WE BRING MORE ROOMMATES TOGETHER BY SPLITTING THEM UP 

At The Pointe at St. Joseph we realize the closer you are to your roommate, the farther apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate our 2 bedroom 2 bath with a large kitchen, separate dinlnr area, and living room. 

-•-
Now You Can Save Money By Sharing The Rent And Keeping Your Privacy Too

THEPOINTE 
LEASE YOURS TODAY! Graduate Students Mon.-Fri. 9-6 pm
AT-SAINT JOSEPH 
-call: Sat. 10-5 pm 307 East LaSalle Sun.ll-5 pm South Bend, IN 46617 287-2684 
page 5 

ND libraries and archives get grant 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame 
Archives and University Li­
braries have been awarded a 
$48,706 federal grant to create 
machine-readable bibliographic 
records of about 500 University 
collections. 
The grant was awarded as part of the government's Strengthening College and Re­search Libraries Program. This program was created by the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to improve public access to scholarly papers. 
Notre Dame will be using its grant money to catalog materi­als "which are of special inter­est nationally and internation­ally," according to Kathy Blackstead, NO's library ad­vancement officer. 
Upon completion of the pro­ject, scheduled for the end of 1991, the bibliographic records of NO's special collections will be reviewable through UNLOC, the University Libraries On-Line Catalog. UNLOC is accessible locally through ND library computer terminals and na­tionally via computer modems connected with the BITNET in­formation service. 
The information in UNLOC is listed in MARC-AMC format, a data system created by the Li­brary of Congress which allows for high-speed searches of bib­liographic information with a minimal input of information. 
Currently, records for the collections to be cataloged are only available in hard copy. This makes research inconve­nient for non-area residents and cumbersome for those who do not know precisely what in­formation to look for, according to Blackstead. 
The federal grant received by the University will fund 54 per­cent of the project's total cost of $90,078. Private funds from various sources will finance the remainder. 
The cataloging will be di­rected by Robert Miller, director of University libraries, and Wendy Schlereth, University archivist. It will be supervised by Charlotte Ames, associate li­brarian, and William Cawley, associate archivist. 
Among the materials sched­uled to be cataloged are the 1576-1897 Archives of the Dio­cese of Louisiana and the Floridas; the personal papers of Civil War general William Tecumseh Sherman, Postmas­ter General Frank Walker, philosopher Orestes Brownson, early Notre Dame scientists Al­bert Zahm and Julius Nieuw­land, and former Notre Dame president Theodore Hesburgh; and manuscript collections of poet Raymond Ellsworth Larrson, journalist John Fred­erick, artist Eric Gill and mis­sionary/priest Nicholas Louis Sifferath. 




Tou,ho~

Give to the United Way. 
"' 
ChineH-Amerlcan Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at----$3.95 ~anquet rooms 
Dinners starting at----$5.45 ~vailable for u~ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
to 200

~~~~....I Mon.· Thuro. 11:30 Lm.1o 10 p.m. Fri.· Sat. 11:30 Lm.1o 11 p.m. 272-7378 Sun. & Holidayo 11:30 Lm.1o 10 p.m. 
130 Dixie W•y S., South Bend (next to Randall's 
Kimball will be interviewing on an OPQn and invitational schedule on Wednes­day, November 7, 1WO ror the following positions: 
Business Analyst · 11 you have sltong analytical skill~> with a back· ground In entry level programming you oould be perfect lor this job. You will be asked to assist in COBOL-OS/MUS programming to determine business roquiremenls. This candidate wlll be highly visible working with our Execu!!ve Information Systems. December, May or August graduates In Computer ApplicaUons will be interviewed. 
Electrical Englneet -Will seMI as production support or electronic assembly from a compOnent polnl or view. GOOd communication skills with supplier/dealer and ability to analyze component performance and failure are essential. Oeoernber, May, or August graduates in Elecltical EnglneGring will 
be interviewed. 
These majors are Invited tc attend Kimball International's presentation on Tuesday, NovemberG,1990 from 7:00 P.M.·9:00 P.M. For more information contact Placem~nt and services Office, Notre Dame. 
5 KimballlntematiorKlJ 
1600 Royul Street Jasper, IN 47549 



--~------------­
~---~-­
Friday, November 2, 1990 
.... ~. ·.. 
I 
., 

TEAM RECORD NEXT OPPONENT Virginia 7-0 Georgia Tech Notre Dame 6-1 Navy Nebraska 8-0 Colorado 
Auburn 6-0-1 Florida 
Houston 7-0 Texas Christian Illinois 6-1 Iowa Washington 7-1 Arizona Colorado 7-1-1 Nebraska Florida St. 5-2 South Carolina Miami 6-2 Pittsburgh 
NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------, 
SUNDAY : EARLY 
2 Large Pizzas
DOUBLE FEATURE ! WEEK SPECIAL 
1Topping 

$5.99 ! $4.99 $10.95 
Get 2 Large Original Pizzas
(;l't 2sm;tlll1ri~inal pi::as with the topping of your 

Get llarge Original pizza with your favorite dwit-r [,,r onh S'i.<N_ \"alid Sundars onh-. topping for only $4.99 Valid Mondays &Tuesdays only. with the topping of your choice. 

[\pirrs t2111/90

II Expin·s 12/JINll II E\pircs 12/J l/9ll 1 Val1d at partlc1patmg stores only Not valid w1th any other offers Pnces may vary CustOmer pays
v,~~~t~ r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e on~elev~~ ~~~~s\·::~~~d~~~~~~~~e~:fe ~:~~~~;'a0u~a~~v;r~ 5~~~~!s~ys sales t.:~x where applicable Dehvery areas llmtled to ensure sale dnvmg Our dnvers carry less Va~~e~1 ~~~r:~~h~i~'~~P~:~~~~e 00&1rv~~ ~~~~s~:~r~ed ~~~~~~~~e~~te ~:~~~Yma0u~a:Jrv;r~5~~~~/s~ysthan S20 00 OUI dr1vers are not penahzed for late dehvenes 
Than S20 00 Our dnvers are not penahzed lor late dehvenes 

than S20 00 Our dnvers are not penahzed for late deh11enes 
~-------------------------------------­~-------------------------------------­

Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 Somh Bend Ave 289-0033 816 
Ave. 



_F_ri_da~y~,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_2_,_19_9_0 -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-T~h~e~O~~b-~se~--N~~e-~r~ -~~~-------------------------------------------------~ea~g~e~ 

AP Photo
•

Crew comfort 
Sailors aboard the USS lwo Jima comfort each other shortly after a memorial service for shipmates that died in Tuesday's engine room mishap, Thursday morning. The US navy amphibious assault ship, out of Norfolk, Va., has been operating in the Persian Gulf as part of Operation Desert Shield. 
Tenn. lawmaker convicted of Bingo setup 
NASIIVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -A state legislator was sentenced Thursday to five years in prison and ordered to pay $48,000 in restitution for setting up an il­legal bingo hall in 1986. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas lliggins sentenced Rep. Tommy Burnett, once one of the most powerful Democrats in the Leg­islature, on charges of illegal gambling, conspiracy and six counts of mail fraud. 
He said he would wait to sen­tence Burnett, 48, on an addi­tiona! mail fraud conviction un­til he served the five-year prison term. 
"It's a sad, sad day," Burnett told reporters. "I think you al­ways feel bad when something like this happens in your life." 
Burnett's lawyer Bob Lynch, in arguments before Higgins, characterized Burnett as an enigma-a popular, successful legislator and lawyer who could not manage his personal fi­nances and fell deeply into debt. 
"Perhaps I am," Burnett said when asked later by a reporter about the description. "Perhaps sometimes I can do good things and sometimes I can do stupid things." 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­State Attorney General Steven Clark was convicted Thursday of abusing his expense privi­leges. He was fined $10,000 but drew no prison time. 
"Obviously, I'm very disap­pointed," Clark said after the verdict was announced. "As I've said all along, it was never my intention to defraud or de­ceive." 
Judge Perry Whitmore fined Clark $10,000 but did not sen­tence him to jail, which Clark's lawyer said would be a death sentence for Arkansas' top legal official. 
"Even though you are attor­ney general -in this respect I feel ridiculous -but I must tell you, you can appeal," Whitmore said. 
The corruption trial went to the jury earlier in the day after a prosecutor compared the at­torney general's ambitions to a runaway train fueled by state money. 
"The General was feeding that train. And as he was feed­ing that train, to keep his gu­bernatorial campaign alive, he'd throw coal in. That coal is your money," prosecutor Chris Piazza told jurors in closing 
~.........................................................................................................................................., ........................................,. 
~ --------­
~ lrlit the road with a Zenith Datai Systems MinisPort or! SupersPort laptop computer 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ! ~~~i ,;;,;:::;
! 1111!!11 .. ·111'1!1 
~ mnm>H~:m 
~ """""""""' ..... ... 
~ ZDS Laptops give you the ultimate freedom of the road. Take them to the ~ library to work on your paper. Go home for the weekend and take your ~ computer with you. When your friends hit the road and come to your place, ~ your laptop can find a place to hide until it's safe to come out again. ~ Ranging from 6 to 16 pounds, there is a ZDS laptop for you. 
~ LAPTOPS ~ 
~ Minisport HD (6 pound laptop with 20 MB Harddisk) $1569.00 ~ Supersport 286. Model 20 [CGA video, 20 MB Harddisk) $2192.00 ~ Supersport 286 E Model 20 (VGA video. 20MB Harddisk) S22g5.nfl ~ Supersport 286 E Model 40 [VGA video. 40MB Harddisk) $2503.0[] ~ 1 Supersport 386 SX Model 40 (VGA video, 40MB Harddisk) $35110.00 ~ LSupersport 386 SX Model120 (VGA Video. 120 MB Hard disk] $3955.00 
~ PRICE INCLUDES WORDPERFECT 5.1 AND 1 YEAR WARRANTY
' ; dzat~a~syrtst~em/.sf CJ NoTRE oAMEc~~~~~TER sToRE 
~ MEJ.th/Computer Building 
~ Groupe Bull 239-7 477 
~ 
i ~ 
! 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
! ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
! ~ 
i 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
;

i 
~ 
L..............................................................................................................................................................................~ 

Arkansas A.G. convicted of expense mishandling 
arguments. 
Clark, 4~. was convicted of a 
less severe charge. He was 
charged with theft by deception 
of more than $2,500, which 
carried a maximum prison sen­
tence of 20 years and a $15,000 
fine. Clark was convicted of 
theft by deception of less than 
$2,500, which carried a maxi­
mum penalty of three to 10 
years in prison and a $15,000 
fine. 
Piazza said after the verdict 
was announced: "I don't ever 
regret a jury verdict." 
Earlier, Piazza said Clark was 
consumed by his dream to be· 
come governor but could not 
afford to entertain political 
supporters and generate cam­
paign contributions without the 
help of state money through his 
expense account and state 
credit card. 
Defense attorney Bill Bristow 
said Clark already had lost. 
"Another jury has already is­sued a verdict to Steve Clark. That is the jury of public opin­ion," Bristow said. 
"Steve Clark has been the 
subject of ridicule. 'Let's go to 
lunch' is a statewide joke," 
Bristow said. "Steve Clark's 
political dream -the dream to 
be governor -is gone. If Steve 
Clark ran for dog catcher right 
now, he'd lose to a write-in 
candidate." 
Clark, attorney general since 1979, earns $26,500 a year plus a $15,000 salary supple­ment. 
Published reports of discrep­ancies in his expense reports prompted Clark to drop out of the Democratic gubernatorial primary Feb. 7. 
Piazza said Clark "lived off 
the state." 
He said Clark stayed at the Peabody Hotel in Memphis, Tenn., with a girlfriend. "He stayed there on your money. You paid for him and her to have room service," Piazza said. 
Bristow said Clark might be liable for civil penalties if he used poor judgment, but in­sisted that Clark did not break any laws. 
"What you're going to see is unauthorized use of funds, not stealing," Bristow said. 
He said there was little or no restriction on Clark's use of the state Visa card. 
Clark testified he never in­tended to deceive anyone with his expense filings. 
Under cross-examination Wednesday. Clark said he was doing more than the law re­quired by keeping expense records. No other top state of­ficial does so, he said. 
"If I wanted to deceive any­one, I wouldn't have done any­thing and I certainly wouldn't have used the names of promi­nent people so people could come in and say, 'Steve Clark says he ate with you, is that right?~ Clark said. 
Among the prosecution's 141 witnesses, state Supreme Court Justice Jack Holt, several state legislators, lobbyists and re­porters testified that they did not eat with Clark, although their names were on his ex­pense claims. 
Clark claimed he accidentally listed as guests people he talked with at the restaurants, met earlier in the day or who were topics of discussion at meals. He said he waited weeks to update expense records from memory or notes. 
Clark denied the state's the­ory that he name-dropped on his expense claims to hide dates, getaways and political engagements from taxpayers who footed the bills. 

I 


Viewpoint
Friday, November 2, 1990 page 8 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor * News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick S.lnt Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director ................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged.  . fi· Dt~ICIT ·.  

LETTERS 

Group offers non-manipulative,Christian setting 
Dear Editor: let them share in this aspect of self-discoverv. however, some­Perhaps, though, it's because group is simply perpetuating 
I think the Office of Campus you." This is the exact same one should happen to discover Campus Ministry is still buying the stereotypes. Isn't it about Ministry owes Gays and advice that Campus Ministry that he/she is gay, the advan­into the myth that the only rea­time we dispel the myths? Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint goes on to present in its letter. tage of "coming out" is clear: it son gays and lesbians get to­Mary's College an apology for But the fact that Campus helps other people, who are gether is to coerce people into James Cavendish the letter that appeared in The Ministry misquoted last terrified about their own self­unhealthy relationships. To as­Brownson Hall Observer on Tuesday. Oct. 16. Thursday's Open Letter isn't the discoverv. see that there are sume that this happens in our Oct. 17, 1990 The tone used by that letter's infuriating thing. The other very normal people who anonymous author verifies that infuriating part of the letter is have the same orientation. 
Campus Ministry's letter encourages 
Campus Ministry has a com­the underlying insinuation that If members of Campus plete lack of understanding Gays and Lesbians of ND/SMC Ministry paid a visit to our 

students to favor confusion and doubt 
about our groups intentions. I wants people to "come ouC so group, this is what they would am usually not a vocal person we can pursue some hidden find: They would find a group when it comes to these issues, agenda with them. I guess what that is deeply committed to Dear Editor: sexual orientation. Many gaybut I cannot remain silent in Campus Ministry is implying Christian values and shows I realize that it is difficult to and lesbian students, like the face of Campus Ministry's here is that we are going to co­genuine support for living those give a sympathetic reading to a nearly all heterosexual stu­
injustice to Gays and Lesbians erce people to choose a values. They would find a group text with which one disagrees, dents, arrive at this Universityof ND/SMC. I cannot remain si­"homosexual lifestyle" or lead that. for some, involves sup­but Campus Ministry's response already knowing their sexual lent when Campus Ministry. an them into unhealthy relation­porting one another in a chaste, to the Oct. 11 open letter orientation. And, despite con­office that purports to further ships. I resent that. If anything, celibate life (this is what the regarding National Coming Out siderable pressures, very few of Christian values, makes gross Gays and Lesbians of ND/SMC religious members of our group Day betrays a misunderstand­the rest leave here without hav­accusations about a group that challenges its members with have found most valuable). ing so thoroughgoing that I ing come to terms with that is­has done more Christian service Christian values. They would also find a group cannot help thinking it was sue. for gays and lesbians than You see, what Campus that talks openly about how to willful. To suggest, as CampusCampus Ministry has ever at­Ministry fails to realize is that ensure that relationships First, the open letter was not Ministry does, that questioningtempted to do. Let me explain. our agenda is very much like remain healthy and non­signed exclusively by graduate should not come to an end in Campus Ministry asserts that theirs. We are not seeking to manipulative. students and faculty members, the undergraduate years is to last Thursday's Open Letter recruit people or to tell them In light of all of this, it seems and it was not directed exclu­encourage students to reject states, "If you are gay of lesbian that they are gay. We realize, that Campus Ministry should sively at undergraduates. No self-awareness and honesty in , 'come out' to your friends." obviously more so than Campus ask itself one question: Why one was "recommending pre­favor of confusion and self-de­The Open Letter said no such Ministry, that sexual orientation didn't it organize a group like mature disclosure" of anything, ception. Moreover, this attitude 
thing. Rather it said, "If you are involves a discovery, not a this before the inception of our and certainly no one suggested displays a striking sort of gay, pick someone you can choice. We respect where ev­present group? After all, our that one ought to come out to intellectual dishonesty. If I am trust, sit down with them, and eryone is at on their journey of goals seem to be identical. people who would react with sincere in my questioning, I 
hostility or condemnation. It must want the questioning to was merely suggested that one end, precisely because I desire 

Gays and Lesbians at ND/SMC does 
come out to a friend, and surely an answer. any real friend would respond The truth, we are told. will out of love and respect. make us free. Campus Ministry 

not promote "premature disclosure" 
More serious still is the atti­would prefer to see us 1~nslaved Dear Editor: Dame and Saint Mary's selves, whatever their sexual tude toward undergraduates by doubt. Or perhaps they sim­
Far more gay and lesbian (GLNDSMC). he or she (my obligations. The Office of that Campus Ministry's letter ply fear that in too many eases persons have been led into the money is on that it's a single­Campus Ministry should follow reveals. To make blanket the liberating truth will not be "premature disclosure" of false for-life "he") should come to a the group's example. statements to the effect that to their liking. heterosexual orientations and few meetings. If Campus Ministry would be "undergraduates are still am­Thomas Williams entered into unhappy mar­Though not a member of the consistent in its desire to eradi­biguous about matters sexual" Department ofPhilosophy riages than have straight per­group, I have attended some of cate seductions into sexual ori­is not merely condescending; it Oct. 18, 1990 sons been led to declare false its meetings and have not found entations too soon, GLNDSMC is false. Consider the issue of homosexual orientation. If the anyone recommending that un­should be last on its list of tar­
The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers.
anonymous author of the decided persons "comes out" gets. Campus Ministry propaganda in about a sexual orientation. The 
Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box 
The Observer Oct. 16 wants to group does provide a safe Martin Connell 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Please note that the more cast suspicion on the practices place-perhaps the only safe Off-Campus 
concise the piece, the less we will have to edit to fill our space.
of Gays and Lesbians at Notre place-for people to be them-Oct. 18, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU 5HOJW HAV& SeEN THt OH, [)EAR. 5UC/1350R? tAaY, THANK Y04 LAaY, 7HEY {)/STRJCTOf=Fia, 805S! IT'S THATWJ'T YOU !XJNI HAVE A OtAR. YOU WV/3 YOU.' PACKeT?WITH YOUR FORM£!?. 00. I /3I3TTfR. SUa:e5SOR IN MAK£M& U.T TH/3M CONSTITUtN75, SCM& OF THEM eNIXJR5!3 f31THER ' SOUNO /...1/<'E VOTe. FOR RtR.JSINS TO U'AV!3 UNTIL­MY SUa:tS-PARTY-' MU550L-INI. YOU' 
YOU AGRE& TO RJJN SOR~CAN­AGAIN! "'-OtOACY AT 
'It ain't easy being easy.' 
ONrZ 1 
I 
Don Meredith 




-Fr-id-ay-,N-ov-em_b_er-2-,1-99-0----------------~\/~i~~--~-~-J)--()~ill--t~-------------------------p-ag-e--9-~ 
ND Catholicity crumbles with reaction to homosexuality 

consistent with Christian the inaugural Mass of this Uni­scholars who believed that world-wide recognition as an 
By David W. Lutz Scripture and nearly two mil­versity's 1954-55 academic Christian revelation has a cen­excellent research institution,
lennia of Christian tradition year, Fr. Hesburgh contrasted tral role to play within every and lose its own soul? 
What is most significant about was defeated overwhelmingly, the task of the coming year academic department of a 
the many editorials, artieles but that the question was even with the tasks facing non­genuinely Christian university. For well more than a century 
and letters published in the brought up for a vote in the Christian universities: "Here is Is this true today at Notre the Holy Cross fathers suc­
various campus periodicals first place. Whatever problems an apostolate that no other Dame? ceeded in preserving the 
over the past several weeks the Roman Catholic Church secular university today can Christian character of this uni­
concerning "coming out" and may have today, one very undertake-for they are largely We should not assume that versity. Today, however, lay 
tolerance and "homophobia" is attractive feature of Homan cut off from the tradition of the revelation message that scholars and administrators are 
not what has been said. but Catholicism for this Protestant adequate knowledge which Christians believe is so obvious becoming increasingly im­
what has not been said. The is that the Church's positions on comes only through faith in the that it doesn't need to be dis­portant in shaping its future. If one position with regard to certain key moral issues are not mind and faith in God, the cussed and taught frequently Notre Dame is to retain its homosexual practice (as distin­negotiable. highest wisdom of Christian and well. Our faith is constantly character as a Roman Catholic guished from homosexual ori­philosophy and Catholic theol­under attack from many direc­university, it will not be merely lmtation) that I have not seen Much of what has been writ­ogy." Today, however, the task tions. Although Professor because it has a clergyman as expressed is that indulging in ten on this campus recently is to prevent Notre Dame from Mohr's arguments were shoddy, president, a crucifix in every homosllxual acts is a very seri­concerning homosexuality is becoming just one more secular he is a skilled rhetorician, and classroom, and a chapel in ev­ous offense against the Creator right on target. Yes, we should university, his remarks were well-received ery residence hall. It will be be­of the universe. The only ex­respect the dignity of all per­by many members of his cause the leaders of the univer­ception of whieh I am aware is sons, ineluding those whose I know that some will speak audience. If the voices of sity-and especially the lay the letter of Father Richard moral beliefs differ from our of "academic freedom." But the immorality on this campus do leaders-stand firm against the Warner, director of Campus own. Of course, we who have distinction between negative not outnumber the voices of forces of secular humanism and Ministry (The Observer. Oct. 9). sinned (and that includes all of and positive freedom (which morality, they are certainly articulate precisely and His statement that the practice us) should love other sinners, makes an early appearance in louder. frequently what it is that dis­of homosexuality is inconsistent just as God loves us. Certainly, Romans 6:16-23) is as impor­tinguishes Notre Dame from with Roman Catholic teaching, "queer-bashing" is immoral. tant here as elsewhere. True The secularization of the secular universities. The lay however, was only secondary to What concerns me, though, is academic freedom is not free-Methodist universities did not leaders of Notre Dame-faculty, his expression of several administrators, and 
Notre Dame passes the greatwhich Sodom and Gomorrah 

divide that separates Christianwere destroyed may have been that the director of Campus dom from ecclesiastical author­happen overnight as the result and secular universities, it willinhospitality. and that it would Ministry has had to be the voice ity, but freedom to speak the of a single policy decision. It 

never be recovered. The

be ridiculous to believe that we crying in the wilderness, the truth. If "academic freedom" at happened as the result of many Methodist universities are notshould obey all points of the sole public spokesman for the a Roman Catholic university small decisions over many only lost; they are irretrievably
Mosaic Law. lie neglected, position of the Roman Catholic means the freedom to teach years. To remain silent while lost. I hope that Notre Dame
however, to address several Church (and presumably of the anything whatsoever, even if it others attack the theological can learn some lessons fromclear condemnations of University) regarding the prac­contradicts the teaching of the 
commitment of the Holy Cross the mistakes of the Methodists.
homosexual acts in the New tice of homosexuality. And I am Roman Catholic Church, what tradition, to hire new faculty What it needs, without furtherTestament epistles. In 1 concerned not so much about distinguishes a Roman Catholic members without concern for delay, is intellectual honestyCorinthians 6:9-10, Saint Paul the specific issue of ho­university from any other kind their theological and moral be­concerning what is happeningtells us that homosexuals will mosexuality as about the ques­of university? There is nothing liefs, to focus on one's individ­here and a serious public de­not inherit the Kingdom of God. tion of what it means for a uni­
wrong with examining argu­
ual research project without bate about what the leaders of
Homans 1 :26-27 and 1 Timothy versity to be a Roman Catholic ments against Christian moral concern for the Christian char­this University are going to do1: 8-11 also address this issue. university. teaching, or even with inviting acter of the university as a 
to prevent Notre Dame from

To maintain that none of these 
scholars from non-Christian whole, is to decide that Notre becoming merely one more sec­passages condemns the prac­Although I am a Methodist, I universities to present those Dame will become a secular 
ular school. If action is not

tice of homosexuality would be cannot study Christian philoso­arguments. But there is some­university, taken soon, the question will
to bring one's own non­phy in this country at a thing seriously wrong with Much is at stake here. 
be, not whether, but when,

Christian agenda to the text. Methodist university. There no inviting lecturers to campus Because of its Roman Catholic Notre Dame will be a ChristianI am a member of the United longer are any. All that re­with the intention of persuading character and academic quality, university in precisely the senseMethodist Church, and I dis­mains is a collection of secular students that Christian mor11.l 
Notre Dame is one of the very that Northwestern University is 
agree with Roman Catholic the­universities that were founded teaching is false. best Christian universities in now Christian.
ology at several relatively mi­by Methodists as Christian uni­Others will say that what North America at which to nor, yet significant, points. But versities. It should come as no happened to the Protestant uni­study and teach, not only for If Notre Dame is indeed a 
one of the things that I like very surprise that Wesleyan versities could not possibly Roman Catholics, but also for Roman Catholic university,much about Roman Catholicism University and Southern happen here. But what others who wish to study within there should be no reluctance 
is that its leaders, most of the Methodist University were relevant difference is there? a university community of on the part of its leaders (andtime, are not reluctant to state founded as Methodist universi­The reason some of the Roman Christian scholars. I hope that not only its leaders within the their Church's position of im­ties. But how about Boston Catholic universities in this future generations of students Office of Campus Ministry) to portant moral issues. I know University, Duke, Northwestern, country are not yet thoroughly will not be deprived of the op­state that moral truth is not a that some Homan Catholics at Syracuse, Vanderbilt and the secular and most of the portunity that I now have to matter of individual taste, that Notre Dame would like to see University of Southern Protestant universities already study at an ecumenically-sensi­the teaching of the Roman their Church become more California? Some of these are is that many of the tive, Roman Catholic university. Catholic Church will not be 
democratic. But if ecclesiasti­schools still have organizational Protestant universities have Why would anyone believe that compromised on this campus, cal democracy is what you're ties to the United Methodist been around longer. Another what the world needs is one that people who choose for looking for, why not join the Church; but they are Christian reason is that Protestantism more secular university, when themselves a life of sin are also United Methodist Church? in name only. has closer historical ties to in­there are so many already and choosing long-term conse­Every presidential-election My concern is that the pro­dividualistic liberalism. But as so few Christian universities? quences of extreme severity, 
year. we have our own political liberal-democratic ecclesiology Would any amount of secular and that anyone not interested
cess of secularization that re­

convention to determine demo­(such as is practiced in the excellence be worth forfeiting in teaching at a Christian uni­
moved the Methodist universi­

cratically what will be right and ties and, before them, the Ivy United Methodist Church), ac­the Christian character of this versity should teach wrong for the next four years. companied by moral relativism, university? And yet, if our ob­elsewhere-perhaps at one of
League universities, from the 

continues to grow in popularity jective is to become an the formerly-MethodistAt the 1988 General ranks of Christian academic in­among American Roman excellent Roman Catholic universities. Merely to reciteConference of the United stitutions is now occurring here Catholics, the barriers that university, and if we adopt as platitudes about "values,"Methodist Church in St. Louis, at Notre Dame. The fact that have stood between Roman our criteria of excellence those thereby implying that Notrelegislation affirming that "we 11 academic departments Catholic universities and secu­by which the Ivy League schools Dame students are beingdo not condone the practice of would sponsor a lecture like lar humanism will continue to are judged to be excellent, how educated at a Christian univer­homosexuality and consider Professor Mohr's is only one of can we become an excellent sity, without taking steps to en­
this practice incompatible with many indications that the crumble. And a third, perhaps 
Christian teaching" was University is already heading most significant, reason is that university without ceasing to be sure that they are, is to commit Roman Catholic universities a Roman Catholic (or even fraud.
adopted by a vote of 765 to 181. down the trail that the But what is most significant Protestant universities have historically have had manage­generically-Christian) 
ment systems staffed by reli­university? For what does it David W. Lutz is a graduate
about this vote, of course, is not blazed. The reaction to Father 
gious order, diocesan and lay profit a university, if it gain student ofmoral philosophy. 
that a moral position in-Warner's letter is another. At 

NOVEMBER 2 -L 

weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC After Hours Rhythm and Soul Review, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
The James Boys, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 
Medieval Dance, Theodore's, 9 p.m. 
OFF CAMPUS Paramount Laser Spectacular, featuring the music of Pink Floyd, Century Center, 8 & 10:30 p.m. Tickets $13. 
THEATRE 
"As You Like It," Washington Hall, 8 p.m. Tickets $10, $6 students, $8 senior citizens. 

sa 
y 
MUSIC 5 O'Clock Shadows, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
The James Boys, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 

After Hours Rhythm and Soul Review, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Homeless Benefit Concert, featuring Randy Stonehill & 
Tony Loeffler, Calvary Temple, 7:30p.m. Tickets $6. 
EVENTS 

Haunted House, Carroll Hall, 7:30-10:30 p.m. Tickets $2. 
THEATRE 
"Sons and Daughters,"Washington Hall, 8 p.m. Tickets $10, $6 students, $8 senior citizens. 
s 
y 
MUSIC The James Boys, WMRD, 9 p.m. William Cerny, "The Romantic 19th Century Fantasia" 

piano recital, Annenberg Auditorium, 2 p.m. P8ula Hlln1a, voice recital, Moreau Hall little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 2:30p.m. B111• EnMmble, vespers concert, Sacred Heart Church, 7:15p.m. 
FRIDAY 
..Dick Tracy," Moreau Hall little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. "The Hunt for Red October," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m. 
"La Lecb'lce," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. SATURDAY "The Hunt for Red October,Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30p.m. "La Lecb'lce,"Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. 
r 


'Avalon' tells story of immi 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
t's a tall' that has bPPn told bt>forP: an EastPrn EuropPan immigrant comPs to Anwrka in search of thP AmPriran DrPam. ThP storv of "Avalon" mav sound familia~. but writer/d.irPctor Barrv Lt>vinson injects nPw life into ai1 old story. and tlw rt'stdt is a nwmorablP film. 
ThP. moviP opPns with Sam Kriehinskv's (Annin MuPIIPr­Stahl l rpc~>IIPctions of his ar­rival in BaltimorP on .lulv 4. 1914. As Sam walks 'un­dPrnt'ath a row of archPs drapPd in patriotir rPd. whitP and bluP and gazPs at tlw firp­works Pxploding abow him. hP is nmvincPd that BaltimorP is "tlw most bpautiful plarP I had sePn in mv pntirP lifP." 
Avalon. is thP namP of thP 
BaltimorP row-housP nPighbor­
hood whPrP Sam and his broth­
Prs HvmiP (LPo Fuchs.) Nathan 
(lsraPI RubinPk.l and GabriPI 
(Lou Jacobi.) livP and opPn up 
thPir own businPss as wallpa­
pPr hangers. 
Through the yPars. thP Krirhinsky famil~· rPmains rlosP. and thPir periodical "family rirrlP.. mPPtings are a tribute to this intiman·. But thl' Krichinskv clan b!'gins to changp as :\nwrira rhangt>s. PSpPrially during thP yl'ars immediatPly following World War II. 
Sam's son .lull's (Aidan Quinn) 
and nPphPw lzzy ( KP\·in Pollakl 
rhangP thPir surnanws to KayP 
and Kirk (to Sam's dismavl and 
opPn a storP that sPits n;>thing 
but tP)Pvision sf'ts. Although 
businPss is a bit slow in 1949. it isn't long bt>forP tlw tt'IPvision boom arrives and tlw Krichinsky family changPs as rapidly as the soeit>ty of post­war America. 

l.t>vinson plan's a lot of Plll­phasis on tPIPvision as a forrP which SP(HtratPd family mPm­bPrs from t'arh otlwr as tlwy bPramP inrrPasingly nwsnwr­izt>d bv tlw glowing stTPPn and aband;nwd nwaltinw ronvPrsa­tion. 
Anotlwr pxplanation for tlw fragnwntation of tlw Anwriran familv that I.Pvinson offPrs is tlw n1ovP to the suburbs. After tht' initial surrPss of his busi­nPss. Jult's and his family and parPnts movP out of Avalon. and thl' tightly knit Krichinsky family slowly bPgins to unravel. 
Although LPvinson's l'xplana­tions for tlw disintt>gration of tht' Anwriran family arP a little too rut and dry to be valid, Lf'vinson doPs a very good job of capturing an important pP­riod in AmPriran history. and thf' actors makf' thf' rt>lation­ships bt>twpen thf' individual charactPrs vPrv bt>lif'vabiP. 
ThP bulk or' the movie takes plarP during the late 1940s and parlv 1950s. but thPrt' an~ nu­mPr~JUs flashbacks which havP a hazy. drPamlikf' quality that is reminisrPnt of silf'nt films. In onP srPnP, Sam recalls the time whPn his fathPr was brought to AmPrira on a cold winter day. until his wife Eva (.loan Plowright) corrects him and tl'lls him that his fathf'r arrivfld in May. The wintry flashback stops, and starts again with a springtimP setting. 
One of the movie's great strf'ngths arfl the individual ac­tors and actresses and thfl n~la-
Above: (I. to r.) Sam and Eva their daughter-in-law, Ann (Elizabeth Jules (Aidan Quinn), crowd around "Avalon." Below: Sam Krichinsky gives 
tionships bPtwePn their charar­ters. Plowrigl.lt is outstanding in the role of Eva Krichinsky and lwr strained relationship with her daughter-in-law Ann (Elizabeth Perkins) is one of the humorous highlights of thfl film. Sam's closeness to his grandchild Mike (Elijah Wood) is also moving and memorable. 
"Avalon" is largely anecdotal; it is a series of little episodes in 
. the lives of the members of one thrfle-generation family. The movie does gPt a little long. but thP actors' pflrformances carrv the film through the slow parts, and thfl richness of Levinson's rerrflation of an America gone by would make a visit bark in time to "Avalon" Wflll worth thfl trip. 
r 
w 


Jellyfish fails to recapture soun~ 
leased off of Bellybutton. was a bright introduction to album, but an unrealistic portrayal of the remainder Jellyfish's debut. The song is formed around a vBry "Beatlesque" melody and is highlighted by backing vocals reminiscent of the days of "Saturday Night Fever" era. 
llowevflr, it is the enflrgetie tempo and musicianship by the bands drummer Andy Sturmllr that makes thll tune appealing. Two "fairy tale" like breaks in thP song also confirm the psychedPiic roots of the band's sound. From here Bellybutton got~s from hopeful to hopelBss. 
"Thn Man I Used To Be," the album's opening cut, is a blunsy romp that never se1~ms to get moving. While the melody itself holds promise, the song is nPVPr dnVI~IopBd, and monotony ovPrridi~S both music and lyric. Th1~ listl1~ss mood is r:arrind through Bellybutton's seeond tune, "That is why," which fails in its attnmpt to eapturn tht~ sound of thn 1960s and 1970s slow rock classics. 
After taking a turn for tht~ b1~ttt~r with thr~ third track, "ThP King Is Half Undn~ssed," Bt~llybutton restates thP fail un~ of the first two songs in "I Wanna Stay 11omB." Jason Falkner's bass playing is wastPd 
on a tunfl that is unable to 
capture the listtmer's atttmtion. 
Thfl n~mainder of the record follows thfl same path, and JPI­Iyfish ends up unsuccessful in their attempt to accomplish what they appan~ntly set out to do: to provide a compn~hensiw and contemporary yet interest­ing perspective on the music of the 1960s and 1970s. While there are some bright spots by th1~ musidans, Andy Sturmer, Roger Manning, Jason Falkrwr. and Chris Manning. Bdlybutton is a mundane debut for .IPlly­fish. 
One oth1~r stn~ngth the album enjoynd was thP production skills of Albhy (;alutt~n and .lack Joseph Paig. Tlw two were w­sponsible for producing writa­ble 1970s dassi1:s such as thP Bnn Gnps' "Saturday Night F1wnr." ThPir n~cording trkks. howrwer, couldn't givP lkllyhut­ton thn push it nPPdPd. 

If you are attracted to thP ~·· audio and visual gimmit'ks that .ldlyfish employs. and arP hop­ing that BPIIybutlon will dig up somt~ musical nwmoriPs from ,.... your psychedl'lic past. JWrhaps you ·should shop for a provPn classic from that era. As tlw band suggests in tlwir linPr notes, "And WP all dappPd our hands." ...WI'II not me. 

By BRIAN GRUNERT Accent Writer 
n recPnt musical 
I 
history, it seems that whenever a nPW band 
hits the scenP, all they 
have to offer is c I everly d i sgu isPd, r1~cyded vPrsions of songs made popular by othPr artists. Few and far bfltween are new artists whosP material is truly innovative and intPresting. 
JPIIyfish, a band who n~cently ndeased their debut album. Bellybutton, is a hit unique in that they have intentionally tried to capture the sound of othflr bands, while at the same time injecting some originality. 
The band attempts to drag the sights and sounds of the 1960s and 1970s into the 1990s, perhaps in hope that any of the listener's fond mem­ories of that era b1~ associated with their material. Unfortu­nately. .JpJlyfish's SUCCPSS is measun~d only by a group of not-so-convincing Bee Gees/Beatles rip-offs. a psychedelic album eover, and a pretty neat, slightly outdatl~d wardrobe. 
"The King Is Half -Un­dressed," the first single re­




I R I S H 

A Supplement to the Observer 
Friday, November 2, 1990 
THE GAME 
Tht~ (~arne Notre Dame ( 6-1 ) at Navy (3-4) 
Phtet~ (;iants Stadium 
Time 12:05 p.m. 
TV & Hadio CBS Sports: WNDU-TV 16: Jeff .leiTers, Jack Nolan Mutual Hadio Network: Tony Hoberts, Tom Pagna 

Tirkt•ts Tlw game is sold out. 
Colh•giutf• Irish 2nd 

Sportswritt•rs Midshi/lmen not 
Poll Hankings rankm 
AI' Hankings Irish 2nd Midshipmen not ranked 
St•rit•s Notre Dame leads 53-9 
Last Game Notre Dame 41 Navy 0 


NO SCHEDULE 
._:J,.) 

rr-~ . 
(::-'S_~_.) 

SPpt. 15 ND 2S, Michigan 24 Sept. 22 ND 20. Mkhig<tn ~tate 19 Sept. 29 ND 37. Purdue 11 Oct. (, Stanford 36, ND 31 Oct. I:{ Nl> 57, Air Force 27 Ort. 20 · ND 29. Miami 20 Oct. 27 ND 31, Pitt 22 Nov. 3 at Navy Nov. I 0 at Tennessee Nov. 17 Penn State Nov. 24 at Southern California 

SPpt. S Navy 28, Hichmond 17 SPpt. 15 Virginia 56, Navy 14 SPpt. 22 Navy 23, Villanova 21 SPpt. 29 Boston College 2S. Navy 17 (kt. (, Air Foree 24. Navy 7 <kt. I:{ Navy 17. Akron 13 Oct. 27 .lames Madison 16, Navy 7 Nov. 3 NOTHE DAME Nov. I 0 at Toledo Nov. 17 DI·:I.AWAHE Nov. 24 at Army 


GAME NOTES 
•Tiw 
sPries is tlw longest continuous intl'rsl'ctional rivalry in college football. Notre Danw and Navy havt~ met every year siru~e 1927. 

•Tiw 
Irish havt~ won 26 straight games in the series. dating back to 1963 when Hogt~r Staubaeh led Navy to a :~5-14 victory in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish have mon~ victories ovt~r Navy than over any other team in Notre Dame history. 

•Notre 
Dame extended its winning streak to 21 games by recording its first shutout since 19S3 in a 41-0 rout of Navy last stmson in Notre Dame Stadium. That was Lou Holtz's I50th career victory. 

•Tiw 
Irish are a perfect 6-0 in games played at Giants Stadium in the Meadowlands. Their last win was by a 36­13 mark over Virginia in last year's Kickoff Classic. 



The Observer/Man Mittino Senior Donn Grimm, shown here ready to make the stop against Stanford, is the top returning tackler on the Irish defense. Grimm played an outstanding game last week against Pitt, compiling eight total tackles. one blocked pass and one interception. 
Strong and Silent 
Grimm anchors trio of talented linebackers 
By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
Wlwn NotrP DamP won coiiPgP football's mythical national rhampionship in 1988, it boastPd thP tPnth­rankPd rushing dPfPnst' in thP country. onP that allowPd just 112.4 yards pN ganw on thP ground. 
l.iiwbackPrs Wes PritrhPtt. NPd Bolrar and Michael StonPbrPakN rotatPd at thP two insidP spots to bolster what many still considl'r thl' finPst Irish dPfPnSP of the '80s. 
Just two yPars later. Notrl' Darnl' again finds itsPif in the thick of thl' national championship racP with a 6-1 record and No. 2 ranking ht>ading into Saturday's gamP against Navy. 
Tlw dPfensl' has taken on a nt~w look this season under dPfPnsive coordinator Gary Darnell. whosl' attack-oriented philosophy emphasizes spt:wd and pPrformance. But stopping the run remains a top priority, and Notre Dame's talented trio of linebackers Stonebreaker, Demetrius DuBose and Donn Grimm key an Irish defense that has improved tremendously since surrendering 253 yards rushing to Miehigan in the '90 season opener. 
Grimm, Notre Dame's top returning tackler in '90, has started six of the first seven games for the Irish and anchors a defensivP front seven that features all seniors­with national-championship experience-when he is in the lineup. 
"We've all been playing together for three or four years," Grimm says, "so we've been down that road before. We're definitely in the hunt for the national 

The Observer/Man Mltllno 

championship, especially with as many seniors as we have 
Donn Grimm has been a stabilizing force for the Irish. "He's a
right now. We know what it takes to win it, but we've got 
glue kind of guy," says Irish defensive coordinator Gary see GRIMM/page 4 Darnell, "He holds things together." 


Irish Football '90 
Friday, November 2, 1990

page 2 

Overmatched Middies face banged-up Irish 
Substitutes' performances key to victory, says Holtz 
By KEN TYSIAC Jones, although sophomore Associate Sports Editor Junior Bryant should also see 
some action there. Seniors 
An injury-plagued, battle­George Williams and Bob Dahl weary Notre Dame team will will start at the defensive tackle take the field at Giants Stadium positions for Notre Dame. in East Rutherford, N.J. at Junior Devon McDonald, who 
12:05 p.m. Saturday against the is most effective as a pass Navy Midshipmen. rusher, is expected to replace 
Injuries to such stalwarts as Andre Jones at outside nose guard Chris Zorich, out­linebacker. Senior Scott side linebacker Andre Jones Kowalkowski will start at the and tight guard Mirko other outside linebacker posi­Jurkovich have to weigh heavily tion, while classmates Mike on coach Lou Holtz's mind. Stonebreaker (who leads the Despite the injuries, though, Irish in tackles with 58) and there is no doubt which team is Donn Grimm will start at inside the favorite going into the linebacker. Sophomore game. Demetrius DuBose will also 
Saturday's matchup will be spend a lot of time at the 64th between the Irish and linebacker. the Midshipmen in what is the The Irish secondary will once longest continuous intersec­again feature All-American tional rivalry in college football. Todd Lyght and freshman Greg 
The rivalry has been pretty Lane at the cornerbacks, the one-sided of late, though. Navy dependable Greg Davis. at has not beaten the Irish since strong safety and freshman quarterback Roger Staubach Tom Carter at free safety. led the Middies to a 35-14 tri­Stonebreaker says that the 
umph at Notre Dame Stadium linebackers in particular will in 1963. Since then, Notre have to make an adjustment Dame has won 26 straight. with Zorich out. 
Even Holtz, who is famed for talking up his opponent and "Chris does things which trying to lower expectations for normal nose guards can't do," his own team, admits that the Stonebreaker says. "He gets Irish are the stronger team go­across the ball so quickly that ing into the game. as a linebacker you have to 
"I don't think there's any kind of play slower than you doubt that (the Midshipmen) normally would. It's something have less talent than the that, without a dominating University of Notre Dame," player up front, you as a Holtz says. But he quickly adds linebacker have to try to take that "they have good athletes, the game into your own hands they played us very well two a little bit more." years ago down there, they are The Midshipmen will try to good defensively. They are a take the game into their hands good, disciplined football team. with a balanced offense and a You always worry about a lot of trick plays. In recent quarterback getting a hot hand years, Navy has run the wish­and mixing the run and the bone almost exclusively on of­pass and us not playing well on fense, but under Chaump the offense." Middies will follow a more con­
Holtz says that Notre Dame's ventional gameplan, albeit with three goals going into the game a few twists. are to win, to have the substi­"If you want to read a book tutes play well and to avoid in­on trick plays, Navy wrote it 
juries. He is especially con­this year," Holtz says. "They are cerned that the artificial turf at going to run three, four, five, six Giants Stadium will take its toll reverses in a game. Against on his players. In fact, the Irish Virginia (in a 56-14 loss) they coach has avoided practicing on ran four different reverses. You the artificial turf in Loftus might say 'well, that's not Sports Center as much as pos­unusual,' but they ran those sible because he is afraid that reverses on four straight plays." some of his athletes might be Senior Alton Grizzard will injured. likely start at quarterback for Injuries are the name of the the Middies, but classmate Gary 
game on the Irish defense this Mcintosh could see some time week. Zorich will likely be re­also. Grizzard has completed 76 placed by sophomore Eric of 161 passes for 857 yards 
FACES TO WATCH 
with six touchdowns and 11 in­terceptions. He is also Navy's second leading rusher, with 203 yards on 63 carries. 
Mcintosh, meanwhile, has completed 30 of 70 passes for 399 yards with one touchdown and five interceptions. Senior Jason Pace, who leads the Midshipmen in rushing with 368 yards in 78 attempts, will start at tailback, while sopho­more Kwame Moultrie (33 rus~es for 136 yards) will start at fullback. 
Senior flanker Jerry Dawson will be the man to watch when Navy takes to the air. Dawson has caught 31 passes for 450 yards and four touchdowns. Junior wide receiver B.J. Mason (23 catches for 273 yards) and senior tight end Dave Berghult (16 catches for 210 yards) will also be prime targets. 
Dawson should also handle most of the punt returns and kickoff returns for the Middies. He is averaging 12.5 yards per punt return, including a 68 yard return for a touchdown, and 19.3 yards per kickoff re­turn. 
The big man on the Navy de­fense will be senior nose guard Andy Kirkland, an All-American candidate. Kirkland is second on the Middies with 62 tackles. Senior linebacker Bill Bowling leads Navy with 70 tackles. 

Cornerback Chris Cordero (two interceptions) and strong safety Scott Carson (one interception and 46 tackles) will anchor the Navy secondary. 
"I don't think there's any doubt about it. Their defense is the strong point of the Naval Academy's football team. With the exception of the Universtiy of Virginia, nobody has scored very many points on them, and the Universtiy of Virginia had a lot of no gain plays and two­yard gains; Virginia did not have very many long drives against the Naval Academy," Holtz says. 
Holtz's Irish may fare better. Sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer might have an itchy trig­ger finger after last Saturday's disappointing five for 16, 85­yard passing performance in a 31'-2 2 win over Pittsburgh. Despite that performance, Mirer has still completed 78 of 134 passes for 1176 yards on the season. 
Junior Rodney Culver, who leads Notre Dame with 529 yards rushing on 108 attempts, will start at fullback. Seniors Ricky Watters and Tony Brooks should split time at tailback, although junior flanker Raghib Ismail could get more carries at tailback if Brooks continues to be bothered by sore ribs. 
Ismail, of course, kicks the Irish into overdrive when he gets the ball. In the past three games he has averaged 235 to­tal yards. The Reisman Trophy candidate has rushed 42 times for 414 yards (a 9.3-yard aver­age), caught 20 passes for 380 yards, returned eight kickoffs for 240 yards, including a 94­yard touchdown trot against Miami, and brought back five punts for 64 yards. 
Other Irish receivers of note will be split end Tony Smith (12 catches for 177 yards) and tight end Derek Brown (nine catches for 148 yards). 
Senior center Mike Heldt will anchor the-Irish offensive line. He will be joined in the starting lineup by junior Gene McGuire at quick tackle, senior Tim Ryan at quick guard, junior Mirko Jurkovic or senior Joe Allen at tight guard and junior Justin Hall at tight tackle. 
Senior Jim Sexton may take over the punting duties for the Irish if Craig Hentrich's dislo­cated thumb prevents him from fielding snaps. Hentrich, who has connected on 12 of 14 field goals this season, should be able to handle the place kicking chores. 
Junior Jefferson Triplett, who averages 38.8 yards per punt, will start for Navy, while senior Frank Schenk, who has made five field goals in 10 attempts this year, will do the place kicking for the Middies. 


Jerry Dawson 

The senior flanker has caught 31 passes for 450 yards and four touchdowns. He started all season at flanker in 1989 and caught 17 passes for 263 yards and two touchdowns. He has caught at least one pass in all four seasons at Navy. 

Gary Mcintosh 

The senior back-up quarterback has completed 30 of 70 passes for 399 yards with one touchdown and five interceptions. He saw a lot of action in 1988, when he passed for 504 yards and rushed 78 times for 239 yards and five touchdowns. 
Andy Kirkland 
The senior middle guard is one of the leading players on the Navy defense with 62 total tackles. He has one quarterback sack and one fumble recovery. He led Navy's interior linemen in 1989 with 69 tackles, 41 of those unassisted. 


George Chaump 

The first year coach of Navy has an overall career record of 60-36­
2. His nine-year mark includes four seasons at Marshall, four at Indiana, Pa., and one at Navy. He spent 11 years as quarterback coach at Ohio State, where he and Lou Holtz served on the 1968 Buckeye staff. 

Jason Pace 

The senior tailback has carried 78 times for 368 yards and two touchdowns. He played in 10 games as a junior, carrying the ball 1 0 times for 58 yards and two touchdowns. Both of his touchdowns came against Boston College when he stepped in for injured regular Rodney Purifoy. 
Irish Football '90 
......
Friday, November 2, 1990 
a e 3 


Knee injury can't stop a 'determined' McGuire 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Knoe injuries have been a sore spot for the Fighting Irish this season. 
Just ask Gene McGuire, a ju­nior offensive lineman from Panama City, Florida. On the Sllcond drive of Notre Dame's matchup with Purdue, McGuire w1mt down with torn knee cartilage. 
Doctors examined his knee in earnest. The diagnosis was that the Irish would have to survive without his services for at least a month. In fact, McGuire's in­jury nventually required arthro­seopic surgery. 
"When I first got hurt, I knew that I would be back soon. I told llw doctors to do whatever they had to do, but I would back for the Miami game," said McGuirn. "I finally had to have surgery because it was a little worse than I had expected. Still, I told everyone that I would be back for Miami. 
"As soon as I woke up in the recovery room, I start11d doing leg lifts and leg extensions to heal it. I'm still not at one hun-

Grimm 
continued from page 1 
to go out and win one game at a time." 
Navy, who stands at 3-4 this year after losing 16-7 to Division I-AA James Madison last Saturday, should not pose a very serious threat to Irish national championship hopes on Saturday. However, Notre Dame found out last week how easy it can be to overlook an opponent when 3-4 Pittsburgh refused to fold in the 31-22 Irish win. 
The Pittsburgh game holds special meaning for Grimm, who grew up in Scottsdale, Penn., located just 40 minutes from Pitt Stadium. 
"I play my best in the Pitt games," Grimm says. "My high school friends, coaches and tnachers show up for that game. They're half the reason I'm lwre. When I play well. I feel I'm giving something back to them." 
Grimm gave the hometown folks morn than their money's worth last Saturday, compiling eight total tackles, including six unassisted, and singlehandedly stopping two Panther drives 
DEPTH CHART 
Midshipman Offense 
P 
FULLBACK 
p
20 Kwame Moultrie 35 Dominic Flis 
TIGHT END 98 Dave Berghult GUARD ~ 85 Tony Gllless 53 David Ulletloren 
57 Tim Glebels 

p PPPPP 
CENTER

FLANKER 
TACKLE 68 Bob Friedman

80 Jerry Dawson 
74 Greg Hlatky 67 Steve Palmer

3 Rob Holmberg 69 Dave Britt 

Irish Defense 
TACKLE 69 George Williams 97 Bryant Young 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 37 Scott Kowalkowski 30 Nick Smith 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 42 Michael Stonebreaker 44 Jim Flanigan 

CORNERBACK 33 Greg Lane 41 Reggie Brooks FREE SAFETY 
13 Tom Carter 27 George Poorman 
dred percent -it will probably be a month before I am back at one hundred percent. I am not fully back yet, but my knee is good enough to play on." 
McGuire, who has seen play­ing time at right tackle this year, had been viewed as a su­perb backup to center Mike Heldt. Gene also handled the snapping duties at center in the 1990 spring practices while Heldt was out with a dislocated elbow. In fact, McGuire's tenac­ity and work habits practically mandated that he be given a starting spot on the offensive line. 
"Gene McGuire is a very tough and very determined player," remarked Notre Dame offensive line coach Joe Moore. "He loves football, which is the number one thing for any foot­ball player. As an offensive lineman, you have to love con­tact, and Gene loves all the parts of the game. He has the chance to be a truly outstand­ing football player and he is getting better every week." 
Moore has coached more than his share of All-American linemen, both at the collegiate 
deep in Notre Dame territory. 
He batted down Pitt quarterback Alex Van Pelt's pass intended for wide receiver Olanda Truitt on fourth-and-two from the Irish 44 to keep Pitt off the scoreboard in the first quarter. Late in the third quarter, Grimm intercepted a third-down pass intended for Darnell Dickerson 'at the Irish 19 and returned it 12 yards to the 31 to preserve Notre Dame's 17-7lead. 
Donn's brother Russ attended Pitt from 1977-80, playing under present Notre Dame offensive line coach Joe Moore. Russ is now in his tenth season with the Washington Redskins, a veteran of two Super Bowl titles in the '80s. 
"Russ is Russ and Donn is Donn," the younger Grimm says. "We're not out to compare ourselves. If I get the chance to play any kind of professional football, then great, I'll take advantage of the opportunity. If not, then maybe I'll go into some type of coaching or sports marketing." 
Grimm's chances for a professional football career hinge on his performance the remainder of the season. 
NOSE TACKLE 
95 Junior Bryant 
96 Marc deManlgold 
~ ~
_ 


Gene Me Guire 
and high school levels. Andy Heck, another product of Moore's coaching, was awarded All-America honors in 1988 and now performs in the National Football League. In short, he knows a lineman with great potential when he sees one. 
It is indeed a mark of high regard, then, that Moore was not surprised at the speedy re­covery of Gene McGuire. 
"I am not surprised by how quickly Gene recovered," re­lated Moore. "The most impor­tant part of recovery is a player's mental attitude, and 
Following last week's game, he is fifth on the team in tackles with 30, including 18 unassisted. He also has broken up two passes and intercepted one. 
Playing next to Stonebreaker, an All-American and Butkus Award finalist in '88, makes Grimm a better player. However, it also makes him a largely unnoticed player. 
Grimm is not a particularly flashy performer, but his great field instincts and consistent play are indispensable to the Irish defense. 
"When he's out there," Darnell says, "things run smoothly. He's a glue kind of guy. He holds things together." 
The Irish defense needed all the patchworking it could get after permitting Michigan 253 yards on 40 carries (a 6.3-yard average) in its season opener. However, with the exception of Air Force (244 yards), Notre Dame has not given up more than 118 yards in a game since. During that stretch, the Irish surrendered only two net rushing yards in a four-quarter period against Michigan State and Purdue. 
"It took us a while to learn Gene has the right attitude." 
Unlike those faint of heart who may alter their playing styles after an injury, McGuire has chosen to stay the course. 
"I'm taking pretty much the same approach as always," said McGuire. "I only think about the injury after the game is over. I wear a sleeve on it while I play, and I just don't think about it until after the game." 
McGuire's attitude also ex­tends to his outlook on the fu­ture. 
"I'm not worried about rein­juring my knee," said the stern lineman who grew up with an affinity for the Pittsburgh Steelers and Mean Joe Greene. "My knee bothered me at Pitt and I had a lot of pain. These three weeks -Pitt, Navy and Tennessee -are going to be hard on it, but it will be all right." 
Moore, however, does harbor some concerns about the pounding McGuire's knee will take on the artificial turf sur­faces of the Meadowlands and Tennessee. 
"All the coaches are worried about the turf," said Moore. 
what Coach Darnell was looking for," Grimm says. "Everyone adjusts differently to a new defense. In this case, its a more upfield, pressure-type defense." 
Much of the defensive pressure in recent weeks has been provided by nose tackle Chris Zorich, who partially dislocated his right kneecap last week against Pittsburgh. Zorich was named one of four Lombardi Award finalists on Wednesday. 
"We've got to make sure nobody comes up the middle," Grimm says. "Zorro is the best nose guard in the country, but Eric Jones is really quick and he's got great feet. He plays the same as Zorro because he's so quick." 
Quickness is something Grimm rediscovered this past summer when he agreed to lose some weight in order to increase his speed and ward off DuBose's challenge for the starting inside linebacker spot. 
Head Coach Lou Holtz named three of his four starting linebackers following April's annual Blue-Gold game. Seniors Scott Kowalkowski and Andre Jones held on to their outside linebacker spots, and 
TAILBACK 


TAILBACK 28 Jason Pace 
40 Tony Brooks 5 Jason Van Matre 
12 Ricky Watters


Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 

5 Rodney Culver QUARTERBACK 
6 Jerome Bettis 16 Alton Grizzard 15 Gary Mcintosh SPLIT END 
FLANKER QUARTERBACK

25 Raghib Ismail

9 B.J. Mason 
3 Rick Mlrer
17 Shawn Davis 

TACKLE
8 Chef Bolden 
15 Kevin McDougal
73Justln Hall 72 Joe Allen
GUARD ~ 56 Dan Dunaway ~ 62 Bobby GopHarth 
TACKLE TIGHT END GUARD CENTER

79 Michael Davis 75 Bill Bensch 

86 Derek Brown 74 Ml~o Ju~ovic 55 Mike Heldt 
" """"" 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 

INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 
36 Donn Grimm 

96 Brad Brown
~ 31 Demetrius DuBos~ 
91 Steve Hlmelspach
~ 

CORNERBA.CK ~ 
~ CORNERBACK 
22 Chris Cordero

STRONG SAFETY 1 Todd LyQht 
21 Anthony Cofield ~TRON~SAFETY
9 Scott arson
26 Greg Davis 21 Rod Smtih 
26 Chad Chatlos.
29 John Covington 84 lrv Smith 72 Joe Allen 

TACKLE 

Midshipman Defense
93 Bob Dahl 81 Eric Jones 

LEFT TACKLE OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
97 Anthony Hamlet 45 Devon McDonald 
46 Damon Bethel ~8 Shawn Smnh 
b 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER~
55 Bryan Ogden 11 Duke Ingraham 
61 Tim Ruddy 

"Mirko Jurkovic was injured on the turf at Pitt. I don't like the stuff. If you practice on it and live on it, then turf is not quite as bad. But when you go from grass to turf, you are asking for injuries. Turf is not good." 
The casual observer may also be surprised that McGuire, a high school standout from the state of Florida, chose to attend Notre Dame instead of citrus­state big boys Florida State, Florida and Miami. For Gene McGuire, however, the decision was not a matter for brain­wrenching deliberation. 
"I always wanted to play at Notre Dame and I was attracted by the quality of the academics " admitted McGuire. "Vinnie Cerrato IIrish recruiting coordinator] and Coach Yelovich !Irish tight ends coach! were also big factors in my decision." 
It certainly seems that McGuire has made the right call. Moreover, given McGuire's stick-to-it attitude and physical talent, he has the potential for a great future both on and off of the football field lying before him. 
Stonebreaker reclaimed his inside position after a one-year suspension. 
Grimm and sophomore DuBose would battle into the fall for the remaining inside linebacker spot, Holtz said at the time. 
Despite Grimm's impressive numbers in '89 (11 starts, 49 solo tackles, 44 assists, 93 total tackles and two interceptions), DuBose had the inside track coming out of spring practice. He worked with Stonebreaker on the No. 1 unit the last two weeks of spring practice, and his speed (4.68 in the 40) seemed tailor-made for Darnell's new defensive scheme. 
Grimm agreed to sacrifice some of his weight over the summer, dropping from 240 pounds to 225, in an attempt to improve his quickness. The extra work paid off and Grimm dosed the gap as quickly as he shed those 15 pounds. 
"Donn's experience equals Demetrius's quickness," Darnell says. 
"With three linebackers in there, it keeps everyone healthy and fresh," Grimm says. "I'm sure in the long run it will be better for all of us." 
SPLIT END 83 Tony Smith 87 Lake Dawson 

Qil. 
TACKLE 76 Gene McGuire ~ 53 Winston Sandri 
GUARD 
52 Tim Ryan 
60 Brian Shannon 
MIDDLE GUARD 51 Andy Kirkland 76 Robert Goodson RIGHT TACKLE 
.l.lo
90 Robert Kuberski 99 Steve Sterlltz

b b 
~ OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
40Ma~EIIIs 
60 Anthony Domino
~ 

INSIDE LINEBACKER 
92BIIIBowli~ 
66 C. Kendri -Holmes 
~ 

~ 
CORNERBACK FR~SAFETY 2Bi11Yancey49 LaRocca 23 Rodney Purifoy25 Ma~ McGinnis 
Irish Football '90 
Friday, November 2, 1990
page4 

Vaas mixes coaching skill with down-to-earth values 
By RENE FERRAN does care for the [players]. He'll 
would constantly improve. and ht~ar thosP things, and you ·n~ in Sports Writer sit you aside and not even talk more importantly. the peopiP thP football profPssion of to you about football. He'll talk around me can improve." roaching, it immediately gives 
Notre Dame running backs to you about your personal life An example of the tangiblP you credibility. It was an op­coach Peter Vaas just wants to or how school's been going, just results of this stress on im­portunity for nw to learn and to be thought of as a basic, down­get in touch with you so you're provement can be seen with grow professionally, and that's to-earth, average guy. not so far apart." Jerome Bettis. A patient touch why it was an opportunity I just However, one can be neither combined with expectations of couldn't pass up." basic nor average and be an "He's helped me understand a constant betterment have Irish football coach. lot of the new running plays," smoothed Bettis' transition Since arriving at Notn~ Damn, 
said junior flanker Raghib from high school to college ball Vaas quiekly was accepted by 
Consider for a moment his Ismail. "He's a tremendous and led to his moving up the the players and coaching staff. coaching record at Allegheny person . . . he's a good guy. A depth chart to where he now While the fans may not know of (Pa.) College. Vaas took a team lot of the players like him. He's seriously challenges Rodney him that rnadily, he notes and which had seven straight losing been a real help to the pro­Culver for playing time. admires the enthusiasm and seasons and in four years as gram." "He's really been helping me pride of the students and tlw
Peter Vaas 

head coach, went 29-11-1 (21-4 So the question becomes, how by being a little patient with Notre Dame community. 
in conference play). The Gators does a man who professes to be to improve, then everything me," said Bettis. "If he were to "I know last spring wlwn I 
won back-to-hack conference basic and ordinary earn such else, including winning, will fall just jump all over me, then it was first herP," said Vaas, "I 
titles in 1987 and 1988, and high praise? The answer lies in into place. lead to a negative response by was amazed at the activity that 
Vaas was named coach of the the simple values Vaas teaches "I want to see us improvP me. but he's been geting on mt> took plan~ on campus ... and 
... year after each title. and by which he lives. from game to game," he said. when hP nePds to get on me. when you get involved with the Consider also what other "If we get better from game to Basically, hp's been hPiping mP football season, the enthusiasm people think about Coach Vaas. One such value is wanting to game in becoming more com­get through the hard times." of the institution is just phe­"I thought Peter Vaas had be involved one-on-one with a plete players. not necessarily be nomenal. It's just sonwthing to done a real fine job at project. rather than being a more productive as far as Vaas PncounterPd an oppor­behold, thP enthusiasm, and Allegheny," said Head Coach delegator, shaping and not just yardage is concerned. but do a tunity to improve himself when along with that word goes Lou Holtz. "He's very person­directing. Moving to Notre lot of the little things that go Lou Holtz offered him the run­pride. The pridP of the people able; I think he'll be an excel­Dame gave Vaas this opportu­unseen by the traditional fan. ning back coach position last associatPd with Notre Dame lent recruiter. His moral values nity. then I think we've done a good year. The chance to work at and the f~nthusiasm they have are outstanding. I just thought "As a head coach, it's cer­job. But it's a day-to-day, game­Notre Dame. under the high for the institution is just incred~ he blended in well. tainly very enjoyable to call to-game thing, that when it's all standards Which must be met ible." your own shots, to run your over. you can say, 'Boy. in here. as well as with Coach To the students. he says, "I think he stands for what own program, and to make December, we're a heck of a lot Holtz and his staff, made it an "Carry the enthusiasm and the University of Notre Dame hands-on decisions," said Vaas. better than we were in August.' easy choicl:' to leave Allegheny. maintain the pride. It's conta­embellishes, and I thought he'd "One of the things that you "[Changing jobs) was a ques­gious. It just helps everybody be an asset to the University. miss, however, is becoming "I think we all can always im­tion of where you have oppor­seek for perfection." Those are the reasons why I se­closely involved with the play­prove on making demands on tunities to improve yourself lected him, and I'm happy to ers. As an assistant, you get ourselves. It's one of those professionally and personally," While Vaas may not share the say I made a very, very fine de­more involved on an individual things, no matter how hard you said Vaas. "No matter where limelight with Lou Holtz and the cision." basis with your players, and I work, how fast you've run, you you are in this country, but players, that seems to be the "As a coach, he's fair as he missed that an awful lot as a always feel as though there's a especially when you're involved way he likes it. He exudes a can possibly be," said freshman head coach." little more you can give. and in the academic and athletic quiet confidence in his ability, fullback Jerome Bettis. "He Another important quality you have to constantly demand world, when you say Notre and doesn't need the media to · sees it from both sides. He'll Vaas stresses is improvement, that from yourself. I'd like to Dame, you get immediate atten­tell him that he's a good coach. look at it from our perspective. both for the running backs he see myself constantly improve tion. That's the way it should be and then give us his thoughts. coaches and for himself. His the standards by which I mea­"Two words: Notre Dame and for this basic, simple, yet spe­"I think he cares. He actually philosophy is that if one strives sure myself, and that way I Coach Lou Holtz. When you cial man. 
FOOTBALL SCHEDULES 

Saturday, Nov. 3 Bethune-Cookman (2-6) Alabama (3-4) at Mississippi St. (3-4) Louisville (7-1-1) at Cincinnati (1-7) Methodist ( 1-6) 
EAST Liberty (6-3) at Central Florida (5-3). Murray St. (1-7) at Morehead St. (3-6) W. Kentucky (2-5) at E. Illinois (4-5) McNeese St. (4-4) at S. F. Austin (1-7) Rutgers (3-5) at Army (3-4) Night La. Tech (5-3) at NE Louisiana (5-3) Iowa (6-1) at Illinois (6-1) 1exa'5 ("i-1) at Texas Tech (2-6) Syracuse (4-2-2) at B. C. (4-3) VMI (3-5) at Citadel (5-3) Sam Houston St. (3-5) at NW Illinois St. (4-5) at Indiana St. (3-6) FAR WEST Columbia (1-6) at Dartmouth (4-2-1) North Carolina (5-2-1) at Clemson (7-Louisiana (2-6) Iowa St. (3-4-1) at Kansas St. (4-4) Brigham Young (6-1) at Air Force (4-4) Connecticut (4-4) at Delaware (4-4) 2) Mississippi College (7 -1 ) at Bowling Green (2-4-2) at Kent St. (1-7) Oregon St. (1-7) at Arizona St. (2-5). Lafayette (3-5) at Fordham (1-6) North Carolina A&T (7-1) at Delaware Nicholls St. (3-5), Night E. Michigan (2-6) at Miami, OH (3-4-1) Night Brown (1-6) at Harvard (4-3) St. (6-2) Mass. (6-0-1) at Richmond (1-7) Indiana (4-2-1) at Michigan St. (3-3-1) Wyoming (9-0) at Colorado St. (5-3) Bucknell (5-3) at Holy Cross (6-1-1) Wake Forest (2-6) at Duke (3-5) Southern Mississippi (6-3) at SW Oklahoma (5-3) at Missouri (3-5) New Mexico (2-7) at Hawaii (4-3) Colgate (6-2) at Lehigh (5-3) Wofford (8-1) at East Tennessee St. (2-Louisiana (3-5) SW Missouri St. (8-1) at Northern Arizona (4-4) at Idaho (5-3) Boston U. (4-4) at Maine (2-6) 6), Night Catawba (4-5) at Samford (4-3-1) N. Iowa (5-3) Eastern Washington (4-4) at Idaho St. Notre Dame (6-1) vs. Navy (3-4) at Auburn (6-0-1) at Florida (6-1) Florida St. (5-2) at South Carolina (4-3) Colorado (7-1-1) at Nebraska (8-0) (2-6) 
East Rutherford, N.J. James Madison (5-3) at Georgia Florida A&M (5-3) at Southern U. (3-4) Northwestern (2-5) at Ohio St. (4-2-1) Boise St. (6-2) at Montana St. (3-5) Villanova (4-4) at New Hampshire (6-1-Southern (5-3) Temple (4-3) at Tennessee (4-1-2) Michigan (4-3) at Purdue (1-6) Montana (6-2) at Nevada (8-0) 
1) Alabama St. (5-2-1) at Grambling St. Tennessee Tech (5-3) at Tennessee St. Western Illinois (1-7) at Southern UCLA (4-4) at Oregon (6-2) Rhode Island (3-5) at Northeastern (1-(6-2) (4-4) Illinois (2-7) Portland St. (5-4) at Pacific U. (3-5) 
7) Morgan St. (0-9) at Howard U. (5-3) Western Carolina (3-6) at Toledo (7-1) at W. Michigan (5-3) Utah (3-5) at San Diego St. (2-4), Night Penn (2-5) at Princeton (2-5) Texas Southern (4-5) at Jackson St. (6-Tennessee-Chattanooga (4-4). Night Minnesota (4-3i at Wisconsin (1-6) Fullerton St. (1-8) at San Jose St. (5­New Haven (0-0) at Towson St. (1-7) 2), Night Georgia Tech (6-0-1) at Virginia (7-0) Ohio U. (1-6-1) at Youngstown St. (8-0) 2-1) Penn St. (5-2) at West Virginia (3-4) Mississippi (7-1) at LSU (4-3) North Carolina St. (5-4) at Virginia Tech SOUTHWEST California (5-3) at Southern Cal (6-2) Cornell (4-3) at Yale (4-3) Appalachian St. (4-4) at Marshall (4-4) (4-4) Rice (3-5) at Arkansas (2-5) Washington St. (3-5) at Stanford (2-6) 
SOUTH East Carolina (3-6) at Memphis St. (4-Furman (6-2) at William & Mary (6-2) Texas Christian (5-2) at Houston (7-0) Fresno St. (6-1-1) at UNLV (4-5), Night Eastern Kentucky (8-0) at Austin Peay 3-1) MIDWEST Arkansas St. (3-4-1) at N. 'fexas (4-4) New Mexico State (0-8) at Utah State (0-8) Pittsburgh (3-4-1) at Miami. Fla. (5-2) Northern Illinois (5-3) at Akron (3·5-1) Kansas (2-5-1) at Oklahoma St. (3-5) (2-4-1) Elizabeth City St. (3-5-1 ) at Alcorn St. (2-5) at Miss. Valley St. (4-4) Ball St. (4-4) at C. Michigan (7-1-1) Texas A&M (5-2-1) at Southern Arizona (6-2) at Washington (7 -1) 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 


piled as to how each person does  Frank Pastor  Ken Tyslac  Chris Cooney  Pat Murphy  Bill Bilinski  ScoH Brutocao  Greg Guffey  
against the spread.  In  other  Associate  Associate  Assistant  Guest Celebrity  South Bend  Assistant  Sports Editor  
.,..,.  words, it isn't  enough to pick the  Sports Editor  Sports Editor  Sports Editor  40-40-4  Tribune  Sports Editor  32-46-4  
winner of a given game.  45-35-4  43-37-4  40-40-4  Last week:  40-40-4  33-47-4  Last week:  
Last Week:  Last week:  Last week:  9-5  Last week:  Last week:  5-9  
10-4  6-8  7-7  6-8  7-7  
Syracuse 10 over B.C.  Orangemen  Eagles  Orangemen  Orangemen  Orange men  Orangemen  Eagles  
VIRGINIA 13.5 over Ga Tech  Yellow Jackets  Cavaliers  Yellow Jackets  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Yellow Jackets  Yellow Jackets  
CLEMSON 16 over N. Carolina  Tigers  Tar Heels  Tigers  Tigers  Tar Heels  Tigers  Tigers  
,..::,  MICHIGAN ST 14 over Indiana  Spartans  Spartans  Hoosiers  Spartans  Spartans  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  
Michigan 27.5 over PURDUE  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Boilermakers  Wolverines  
Penn State 11 over W VIRGINIA  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Nittany Lions  Mountaineers  Nittany Lions  Nittany Lions  Mountaineers  
FLORIDA 3.5 over Auburn  Tigers  Tigers  Gators  Gators  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
ILLINOIS 3.5 over Iowa  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  
NEBRASKA 6.5 over Colorado  Buffaloes  Buffaloes  Buffaloes  Buffaloes  Buffaloes  Cornhuskers  Buffaloes  
Alabama 8.5 over MISS STATE  Bulldogs  Crimson Tide  Crimson Tide  Bulldogs  Crimson Tide  Bulldogs  Crimson Tide  
WASH 17 over Arizona  Huskies  Wildcats  Wildcats  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  
MIAMI 22.5 over PIHsburgh  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Panthers  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Panthers  
OREGON 10 over Ucla  Ducks  Ducks  Ducks  Ducks  Bruins  Ducks  Ducks  
Notre Dame 35 over NAVY  Irish  Irish  Midshipmen  Irish  Irish  Irish  Midshipmen  



11 



r 
ant family 
• 

Raw intensity of the Clash is 
evident on 1977 Revisited 
By FRAN MOYER 
Accent Writer 
F 
or thosP of Hill who art' sick arld tirt•d of thosP arty. pst>udo-in tt>llt>rt ua I 
bands who drt'ss in 

black and tr~· to art n•ally hip. 
lwn• is an album for vou -tlw 
Clash·s I977 HPvisitP.d. 
I977 HPvisitPd is a colll'ction of ran• songs and B-sidPs that rPOPrt tlw Parlv VPars of onP of tlw most t•xciting bands of all tirnP. Bt>sidPs tlwir sPif-titlt>d dt>but album and thPir U.S. dt>but. CivP 'pm Enough HopP. no otlwr Clash album illustrah•s so pPrfPctly Uw raw intl'nsity that so rharactPrizPd thPsP angry nwn. 
Tlw crudt'nt'ss and. for lark of a lwttPr word. thP anarrhv of a liw Clash pprformarH'P is brought out through thP livP n•rording of "London's Burn­ing." Orw can picturP thP rhippPd-tootlwd .lot-Stumnwr. clad in a HPd BrigadP T-shirt. SITPaming in his tradt-mark stvlt>, whiiP Miek JonPs, ci­g<trPttP in mouth, plays his gui­tar with the fervor of a man possessed. If you like the studio vPrsion of this song, you will dPfinitPIV lovp it liVP. 
ThP r.'nal four songs on thP first sidt> of thP album wt>rP all originally on thP British vt>rsion of thPir dPbut album. but wert> ornittPd on thP U.S. version. ln­cludt•d in thPSP four songs is "Ciwat." which Clash fans will rPrognizl' as ont> of tht> prize ruts off tht> mini-LP, Black 1\tarkPt Clash. 
ThP otht>r thret> songs, ''J)pny"(a harsh vit>w on the life of a· j unkit>). "48 llours"(in praisP of tht> must nt>t>ded wPPkPndl. and "Prott>x Blue" l JonPs' unt>nthusiastic PndorsPmPnt of rondom ust>) an• Pqually mt>morable. and arl' sonw of thP best songs the Clash has product>d. 
Orw of thP best songs on the album is that jazzy "1-2 Crush on You ... This selection is the typP of song Jack KProuac's sordid hipstl'r, Dean Moriarity, would havP been able to "dig," not only bt>rausP it is inherently bt>atific. but also because of the rrazv sax solo that makes one just· want yell "blow daddy blow!" 
ThP Clash's soda! ronsdous­rwss. which is so evident on their other albums, is beauti­fully illustrated in "Stop the World." the eerie B-side to the anti-conscription song The Call Up." This cut, a protest against tht> arms race, is full of back­ground coughs, high pitched rhimt>s, a monotonous drum bt>at. and Strummer's droning vocals; all of which combine to produce a mt>ntal image of a surrt>al post-apocalyptic world. 
ThP best sPlection on the en­tirt> album is "1977," which is tht> B-side to the searing "White Hint." As Strummer snarls, "It's 1977, I hope I go to ht>avenl I'm too long on the dole I I can't work at all," and Jones grinds his guitar, one cannot ht>lp but be caught up in the fury that is the Clash. One has to wonder why this wonderful leftist anthem was not included on any of their previous albums. 
1977 Hevisited is full of loud, crude music and unmelodious, harsh vocals; in fact, most times it is difficult to decipher just what Strummer or Jones is .. yelling. If you love that kind of frenzied unorganized music, then buy this album, but if you don't. then continue to waste your money on cappacino, cigarettes, and melodramatic, uninteresting , "think they have something to say, but really don't" bands. 
pq.ge 12 The Observer Friday, November 2, 1990 
Reverent skepticism and the mysteries of God 
"People must think of us as God's servants," wrote St. Paul, "stewards entrusted with the mysteries ~f God. What is ex­pected of stewards is that each one should be found worthy of his task." 
When I meet young Catholics who tell me that religion is boring, I have a feeling that the mystery of things has never overtaken them. Notre Dame is very good at proclaiming the social Gospel: field trips to Ap­palachia and urban plunges are dead-set on the mark; and such kinds of activism are like giant steps in the right direction, if we believe in Christ; as the Bible warns us, "Faith without works is dead." 
The Bible also invites us to stockpile the quiet times: 

( "Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart, and in your chamber, be still." Sometimes I worry that the so­cial gospel is a hiding place for professionally religious men and women who feel uncom­fortable when they try to pray. To tell the truth, I'm not very good at prayer myself; yet I keep reminding myself that if I were to spend all my time feed­ing the hungry whom I meet in the soup-line, I could become spiritually anorectic. But what is meant by "the mysteries of God?" Aye, there's the rub: Who can explain them? Who can tell you why? Fools give you reasons. Wise men never try. The phrase re­minds me of Virgil's line: "Sunt lacrimae rerum et mentem mortalia tangunt. (There are tears shed for things even here, and mortality touches the heart.)" 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to o Lonely God 
Yet the "tears shed for things (lacrimae rerum)" are only a preparation for the truth hid­den, like unexpected grace, in a line of poetry: "I saw Eternity the other night,/Like a great ring of pure and endless light,/All calm, as it was bright..." 
Or, if that's too intangible, consider this: "They are all gone into the world of light!/And I alone sit ling'ring here;/their very memory is fair and bright/And my sad thoughts doth clear....Dear, beauteous death! the jewel of the just/Shining nowhere but in the dark;/What mysteries do lie beyond thy dust,/Could man outlook that mark!/He that hath found some fledged bird's nest may know/At first sight if the bird has flown;/But what fair well or grove he sings in 
now/That  is  to  him  un­ 
known .... "  
Comparing  the  two  ap­ 

proaches to the Maid of Or­leans, Chesterton favored Voltaire's, "because when a man of Voltaire's school has to explode a saint or hero, he says that such a person is a common human fool or fraud. But when a man like Anatole France has to explode a saint, he explains a saint as "somebody belonging to his particular fussy little lit­erary set." 
Voltaire read human nature into Joan of Arc; but at least it was not Voltaire's nature. But 

M. France read M. France's na­ture into Joan of Arc -all the cold kindness and sentimental­ity of the homeless writer. 
Henan's "Vie de Jesus," says Chesterton, has just the same general intention: that if you do not attack Christianity, you can at least patronize it. This is the method of the reverent sceptic. When you find a life entirely in­credible and incomprehensible from the outside, you pretend that you understand the inside. 
As Henan, the rationalist, could not make any sense of Christ's most public acts, he proceeded to make an ingenious system out of His private thoughts. As Anatole France cannot believe in what Joan of Arc did, he professes to be her dearest friend and to know ex­actly what she meant. 
Christian scholars can sound like reverent skeptics when they exegete the New Testa­ment. Choosing to pick apart the Gospel of Luke, some of them say there's nothing there that reveals Christ as the only­begotten Son, God from God, of one substance with the Father. 
The Lucan Christ only raised the son of the widow of Nain and the daughter of Jairus from the dead, healed leprosy and palsy, and fed the 5,000, to say nothing of His other mira­cles. This was clever of Him, if He was only an itinerant village rabbi; but is the New Testament really ambivalent about Christ as the Son of God? Instead of claiming divine titles, didn't He wait for those titles to catch up with Him? 
Catholics used to believe that the difference between the Catholic Eucharist and the Holy Communion of the Lord's Sup­per at the Congregational or Baptist Church was the mystery called the Real Presence. Now, for many Catholics, the Eucharist is notable for the "Real Absence," as in the Protestant version of the sacrament. As a matter of fact, many young Protestant divines in New England have given up on Holy Communion altogether, because they claim, it has over­tones of cannibalism. 
I'm not a theologian, nor do I wish to attack any Christian's faith; yet as an investigative re­porter on the lookout for the mysteries of God, I can't help thinking that some important mysteries of the Catholic tradi­tion have gone in the direction of the Protestant Reformation. Whether that is good or bad, yet can judge for yourself. 
Where have all the flowers gone? They've gone where the good folk have gone, and were a long time passing. Even hu­man sexuality could lose part of its appeal, if you considered only the views of Dr. Ruth. It must be diminished in charm anyway, if it can never be spon­taneous, and must be mediated through contraceptives. Still, as in receiving Communion, the partners must keep their salva­tion-spiritual or physical-in mind, and don't say that as a mockery. 
"The Holy Ghost over the bent/World broods with warm breast an with ah! bright wings"-to me, this means the Church must have soul. If the Bishops are really in a sweat about evangelization, they should try to put attention of the mass of men who lead lives of quiet desperation; and they might start losing the attention of even more of the priests. 
This doesn't mean I'm threat­ening to leap over the wall; only that I try to keep wonderment­which is a prelude to mystery­on hand like wine that is privately stocked. If you ask God, I'm sure He'll give you the 
ace to do the same. 


Give to the United Way. 
... 

TEACH FOR AMERICA 

information session 
Monday, November 5th 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, Room 1109 
8:00p.m. Teach For America is a nati_onal teacher corps of talented, dedicated individuals from all ethnic backgrounds and academic majors who commit 
.. 
two years to teach in urban and rural areas that have persistent teacher shortages. 

for more information contact Carolyn Moser at Career Services, 239-5200 





--~~----­
Friday, November 2, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
lnterVarslty Chnstian Fellowship Meeting "Why Should Christians Share 
The1r Faith ?" Where ? Stanford Chapel When ? TONIGHT II@ 7:30pm Ouest1ons? Call Tim@ xt985 
JUST SAY NOI Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave & Howard. 233-2342 
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST STUDENTS IN ECON ,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. P1ck up & delivery available. 277-5134 Cathy. 
GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTY STAFF 
THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB IS OPEN exclusively TO YOU! FRIDAY 5:00 PM-9:00 PM 
NO COVER CHARGE! 
LOST/FOUND 
"REWARD'' I lost my RED PLAID UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 in Hesburgh library. VERY h1gh sentimental value (plus, it is unique and I would definitely recognize it I) Please call 2983 with info NQA. I really need my umbrella I 
"REWARD" 
LOST: 14k-gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football F1eld. GREAT Sent1mental Value. If found. please call Cara x3847 
Found at M1am1 game· -one shoe -one pmr of sunglasses 
Call Matt @3472 to ident1fy. 
LOST RINGII! LOST RINGI!I! PLEASE. 1f you found a gold nng w1lh a purple heart-shaped stone bemg held by two hands and w1th a crown on top, CONTACT ERIN at 4634. I live 1n 114 Lew1s Th1s nng means so much to me-­PLEASE CALLIII 
LOST RING I!! LOST RING 111 Gold Clataugh (sp?) nng.. two hands holding a heart­shaped purple stone. With a crown on top PLEASE contact me 1f you've found 111!! II was a pre-Chnstmas g11t-the only one I'll seell Enn at 4634. 114 Lew1s 
LOST Men's gold nng w1th a "D" engraved on 11 Please help. I am startmg to pamc The nng has grea1 sen11mental value If found please call Brooke at X3701 or come to Lew1s 236 Thank you WATCH NEAR STONEHENGE. CALL LEN AT 277-9373 TO IDENTIFY. 
WANTED 
l 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 
AITENTION: Excellen1 income for home assembly work. 504-646­1700 DEPT P5868 
TRAVEL FREE! CAMPUS REPS WANTED. QUALITY VACATIONS TO EXOTIC DESTINATIONS. AFFORDABLE SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO JAMAICNCANCUN! FREE TRAVEL AND $$. 1-800-426­7710. 
ND HOCKEY IS LOOKING FOR AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
an attractive studio in lovely old mansion near ND 255/mo call 2888595 
HOUSE FOR RENT · 527 S. Eddy St. 6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, eat-in Kitchen, Livingroom and finished room in basement. $500 security and $500/month plus utilities. Contact John at 232-1242. 
FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY 273-9406 OR 283-2805 
Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap 15 min. Walkmg from Campus Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 Bob x3234 
FOR SALE 
CD Player. Stereo cabmet. m1sc electromc equ1p. 272-4 t 08. Steve 
tO SPEED BIKE.272-6306 
Plane 11cket to Boston for sale L 11120 A· 11125 "'"ONLY $190.""" Please call x4809 
1977 BUICK SKYHAWK.$550 or BO. Call Nareh (239-5638 days. 271 1208 mghts) 
TICKETS 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games Call tom x1597. 

Need 2 GA's for Penn St call Ryan x 1 048 
I NEED TWO PENN ST GA'sl PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at x1809. 
NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL TOM 273-0302 
$ $ $ $ 

ONE PENN STATE STUD FOR SALE­BEST OFFER Call JOE 271-1211 
$ $ $ $ 

HELP ME! I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. JOE X2358 
I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX CALL ARNOLD 3333 
HAVE 1 ST NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST TONY x1590 
WINDCHILL FROSTBITE NOV17 PENN ST Need I say more? Ryan need 2 stud tix x1048 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME. NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT 
(704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. 
I NEED PENN STATE GA'S FOR UTILE SIS AND MOM PLEASE CALL DIEGO #4075 
I need 2 Navy G.A.'s and 2 Penn. St. G.A.'s or student tickets. 
Please call Kathy x 1296 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Wealthy Phys1c1an to Pay B1g Bucks for PENN STATE G.A.'s or STUDS x 1 935 ask for Alex $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 2 Penn St. GA's Jay x2290 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! 1 need student and GAs for Penn State II Call Kate at x4071 TH,ANKSI! 
1 need MANY Penn State GAs. preferably in groups. Call Paula­283-4096. 
I NEED PENN ST & Tenn I1XS.272-6306 
5 PENN ST GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 716-873-7227. 
Need stud tix for Penn St. Call Geoff at 271-5686 
Call x 1594 and sell Greg 2 tix to the Penn St. game. Stud. or GA's 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 P-~-at the Notre Dame office 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Samt _Marys off1ce, Haggar College Ce~ter. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 OR 5 PENN STATE GA'S CALL PAT AT #1802 
HEY HEY HEY! Make my day Sell me 2 Penn GA's 
Thanks! X3821 
I Need 3 Penn St. GA's or 3 stud. Call Tom at 1155 
Need 4 PENN ST. GAs BIG MONEY. call Rob 259-3268 
Need TN tickets ! call 4010 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X3797 
Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283-1818 and leave a message. 
Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x1581 . Will beat any offer. 
Please help me I need Penn State GA's. And lots of them. They're for these relatives I don't know very well. and if I don't get any. it could be downright awkward. Call x2980. 
need 2 TN ga·s Rick x 1750 
I NEED A LOT OF PENN ST GAS $$$CALL DEREK 234-3356$$$ 
DO YOU HAVE PENN ST TIX? I NEED 81!1! CALL TIM#2704 
Sell me 4 PENN ST GAs and I'll be happy' Cristin x3857 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR PENN ST. GA'SI! I NEED A LOT $$$$ 
X 3028 OR 2546 $$$ 
1 need all the t1ckets that you can sell me lor the Tennessee­
N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 or leave a message. 
1 need two tickets for Penn State. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409 
I need two tickets for Penn State. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. 
NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA TIX FOR UTILE SIS PLEASE I! CALL SARAH 2815 
NEEEEED Penn St. GA's Please Help Jill x4852 

I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'SIII CALL JERRY X2088 
1need Penn St tix Jeff x3320 
NEED GA's FOR PENNIIII CALL 283-2521, Tasha 
Please Help II! I need 4 Penn State GA's!! Call Pat x411 0 
WANTED! 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL TEDS X1388. 
This is my last opportunity to bring my parents to a home game · I NEED PENNST GAs!lll!!! 
Please call Kelly x4839 
2 TENN GA'S FOR SALE CALL KELLY X4839 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs LISA 2341574/JIM 2711703 
SEX. SEX, OH, OH! REALLY, I NEED 4 PENN .. ST. GA'S. I WILL PAY LOTS OF MONEY FOR THEM. FLO X1696 
\ PERSONALS 
hiag 
DO YOU HAVE HIDDEN ARTISTIC TALENT THAT YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO SHOW? 
ART EXPO '90 invites ALL members of the NO community to sign up for this informal exhibit Nov. 5 &6, in the SUB office from 3-5 pm, or call 239-7757. 
WE SING BAD listen for us soon (coming to your room) 
FARLEY HALL TRIP FROM HELL 
1
. 1 guess he never found anyone who bruises so easily 

2. 
It was the first time anything like that ever happened. Whathappened?? Well. put your mind in the gutter. 

3. 
Mary. is that what you really sound like??? 

4. 
It's just a matter of inches. 

5. 
It's either yes or no­no maybe's. 

6. 
If she gives me one more 


B.J .. she'll need braces. 
7. 
I've gotta pee before we hop on the big M. 

8. 
We can do 15. hell-we can do as many as we want! 

9. 
Don't just sit there and play with it-eat it!! 

10. 
ANDI: FORGET MEN. JUST BUY ME A VIBRATOR!!!!!!!!!! 


CHATIY: HAPPY B-DAYI!! From the guys in 309 
P.S. no one ever says any thing bad about ... you as far as you know. 
Adoption: A caring. devoted professional couple wishes to give newborn all the advantages of a lovmg. secure home. Expenses paid. Call Joan/John collect (212) 496-0661. 
Cruise Ship Jobs 
HIRING Men -Women. Summer/ Year Roood. PHOTOGfWIIIFI'S, OUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL Excellent pay plus FREE mel. c.tJb:ean, Hawau, Bahamas. South P8Ciic, lilllico. CALL NOWI c.ll ~­
1-206-736-07751 Cll7 
WEINOORKI What's the deal big guy? Not seeing you around makes me want to see those muscular-well-defined-crew legs like crazyl So when are we going to slam on the plat­form again?-1/3 of the triple 
Can You Stand the Fear? Can You Survive the Terror? Can You Find the Dorm? 
CARROLL HALL HAUNTED HOUSE-SAT. 7:30-10:30 
100 Terrifyingly Creative Vermin Are Waiting 
where's carroll hall? Where's Carroll Hall?? WHERE'S CARROLL HALL??? 
Alter Saturday night, you'll wish you'd never asked 
What could be more terrifying than Dining Hall meatless cheeseburgers, running through the Tennessee student section with an ND banner, or ND hoops going to the Final Four?? Come to Carroll Hall Sat. night and lind out. 
Happy Birthday Dan Cavanaugh I Love, Mouth, Hersh, Flecker & Jackie. 
'"THE COFFEEHOUSE @GRACE PRESENTS MUSIC FIT FOR KINGS·" 
8:30 SARAH MUZZARELLI 
9:30 "CHISEL" 
10:30 "DOGHAUS" FRIDAY!FRIDAYIFRIDAYI IN THE BASEMENT OF GRACE" 
Sunday morning mass and brunch at the country club. Shopping, shopping, shopping,and more shopping. Volleyball games. ONE NATION (I'm 22 not 23) Pretty Woman. Spilled choclolate shakes at Daddy-D's. Thursday night very special (study lounge). Baker Hall. Japanese Steakhouse The Flying Tomato. Purity on Wednesday. Purity on Thursday. Purity-surprise on Friday. Back to reality on Sunday. Thanks lor a fantastic week. 
Shan-Bear, 
The Mouse gladly accepts your interestingly asked offer lor an evening at SMC,but you knew that already( or you should have) .Wanted to go since I heard about it! Can't wait to go.(Nothing has changed I Don't stress) By the way my accent isn'tthat badII 
Cathy Hill, 
Dr. I.P. Freely orders you to have a great b-day( and keep taking that ointment lor that rash). Call and remind her at 
284-5178 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD FALL 1991 Informational meetings ­
Nov. 6, 5:30, ND Library Auditorium. Nov. 7, 6:30, SMC Haggar. 
sdgf 
SPOTLIGHT''''"SPOTLIGHT HEY EVERYONE, ANNETIE MONAHAN IS HERE FROM PC Ill I'M GLAD. 



Scoreboard 
Friday, November 2, 1990
page 14 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Fttday,2~ 
MEN'S and WOMEN'S SWIMMING-NOTRE 
DAME RELAYS 
S.llrdoy, 3 November 
Football w. Navy at East Rutherford, New Jersey 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL vs. WESTERN 
MICHIGAN 
MEN'S and WOMEN'S SWIMMING-MCC DUAL MEET 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Pnlc:k DlvWon 
w L T I'll GF GA NY Rangers 11 3 0 22 64 34 New Jersey 8 4 1 17 53 44 Philadelphia 7 6 0 14 50 49 Washington 7 7 0 14 43 45 Pittsburgh 6 6 1 13 61 53 NY Islanders 3 9 0 6 31 54 

Adlma DlvWon  
Boston  7  4  2  16  42  46  
Montreal  7  6  1  15  46  46  
Hartford Buffalo Quebec  4 3 3  7 5 8  2•3  10 10 9  32 39 40  44 39 59  The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, wnh first-place votes in parentheses, records through Oct. 27, total poims based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's rankings:  
AacOid  I'll  1'1111  Next  
1. VIrginia (44)  7-D-0  1.462  1  116 Georgia Tech  
CAMPBELl CONFERENCE Nonla lllvlllon w L T  I'll  GF  GA  2. Non Dame (6) 3. Nebraska (5) 4. Auburn (2) 5.111inois  6-1-o s-o-o 6-o-1 6-1-Q  1,380 1 ,350 1,284 1,230  3 4 2 5  at Navy 19 Colorado at 115 Florida 113 Iowa  
Chicago  9  5  0  18  49  34  6. Houston (2)  7-0-0  1,196  6  TCU  
St. Loula Detron Minnesota  8 7 2  4 4 9  1 3 3  17 17 7  47 56 38  38 52 58  7. Washington (1) 8. Mlarri, Fla 9. Colorado  7-1-0 5-2-0 7-1-1  1,189 1,074 1,009  7 8 10  123 Arizona Pittsburgh at 13 Nebraska  
Toronto  2  11  1  5  38  66  10. Brigham Young  6-1-0  943  9  at Air Force  
SmythelllvW... L.A. Kings 9 Calgary 9 Vancouver 6 Winnipeg 5 Edmonton 2  3 4 6 7 7  1 0 0 1 2  19 18 12 11 6  61 58 37 42 29  42 39 40 42 32  11. Tennessee 12. Florida St. 13.1owa 14. Texas 15. Florida 16. Georgia Tech 17. Mississippi  4-1-2 5-2-0 6-1-Q 5-1-0 6-1-0 6-0-1 7-1-0  870 807 759 742 638 612 519  11 12 1 5 13 14 16 17  at Temple at South Carolina ailS Illinois at Texas Tech 14Auburn at If Virginia at LSU  
18. Clemson  7-2-0  424  19  North Carolina  
19. Wyoming  9-0-0  407  18  at Colorado State  
20. Michigan  4-3-0  403  20  at Purdue  
WednMdoy'a Gamea  21. Southern Cal  6-2-0  333  21  California  
Boston 3, Buffalo 3, tie  22. Oregon  6-2-0  230  25  UCLA  
Montreal4, Hartford 2  23. Arizona  6-2-0  225  23  at 17 Washington  
N.Y. Rangers 9, Los Angeles 4  24. Penn St.  5-2-0  123  at West Virginia  
Winnipeg 1, Edmonton 0, OT  25. Louisville  7·1-1  108  at Cincinnati  

Thuredly'a a.n.e Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 50, Ohio St. 38, Texas A&M 37, Oklahoma 29, Central Michigan 9, 
Late Games Not lnduded Georgia 6, Indiana 5, Texas Christian 4, North Carolina St. 1, North Carolina 1, South Carolina 1, Boston 3, St. Louis 2, OT Syracuse 1, UCLA 1. Detron 5, Toronto 4 Philadelphia 6, Minnesota 3 

Chicago 6, Quebec 2 Winnipeg at Calgary, (n) New Jersey at Vancouver, (n) 
Friday'• a.m.. 
N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Washington, 8:05p.m. 
Seturdoy'a Gllnea Chicago at Philadelphia. 1:05 p.m. Buffalo at Boston, 7:05p.m. St. Louis at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Washington at N.Y. islanders, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. New Jersey at Edmonton, 8:05p.m. Detro~ at Montreal, 8:05 p.m. Calgary at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 8:05 p.m. 
Sundoy'a Gllnea 

M-Th 8-7:30 Fri 8·6 Sat 8-5
Calgary at Buffalo, 7:05 p.m. Minnesota at Montreal, 7:05p.m. Philadelphia at Toronto, 7:05p.m. Los Angeles at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 


ROCCO'~ ~TYlf ~HOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS:PERMANENTS-COLOR 
November 4 

Orientation Workshop 
Hesburgh Library Auditoriurn 4:00 -6:00 PM 
Urban Plunge 
THIS IS REQUIRED FOR ALL URBAN PLUNGE PARTICIP,\:\JTS 
mi!!'Rll 
~ 
llml:lll!l 
...,
Ntt,..Oamt,IN
...,. 
Zl'•D9·U•l Uf-1)11-filt 
"""""'" 
""""""' 



NOTRE DAMEIS ANNUAL CAMPUS-WIDE DEBATE SERIES 
INTERESTED IN MEMBERSHIP ON THE ICEBERG DEBATES STANDING COMMITIEE? 
ICEBERG DEBATES...._ 
WE NEED PEOPLE IN THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
PUBLIC RELATIONS  ADVERTISING  
DORM LIASON  ARTWORK  
SCHEDULING  POLICY ANALYST  

APPLICATIONS AVAILABE IN SECRETARY'S OFFICE 
tJ 

2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. DUE NOV. 5th BY 5 PM 4lli~~0 

Express Press~ 
OF f".JJOANA NCCli=PCJRATE 
~ 
I HIGH SPEED COPIES I 325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219) 277-3355 

OFFICE SUPPLIES 
~HairCutting Co. INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Dally9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 1 -5 

----~----~~-----------­
Friday, November 2, 1990 
Yzerman scores 300th career goal in Detroit win 
DETROIT (AP) -Johan Garpenlov scored two goals and Steve Yzerman added the 300th of his night-year NHL career Thursday night as the Detroit Hed Wings skated to a 5-4 victory ovflr the Toronto Maple Lnafs. 
Detroit (7-4-3) bounced back from its first home defeat of the season, a 5-2 setback to St. Louis on Tuesday, to run its home record to 7-I. The Maple Leafs ( 2-11-1) fell for the sec­ond time in three starts since Tom Watt replaced Doug Carptmter as coach. Carpenter was lirnd Oct. 26. 
After Garpenlov and the Maple Leafs' Vincent Damphousse traded first-period goals, the Hnd Wings broke the game open with three goals in a 2:11 span early in the second period. including Yzerman's ninth of the season. 
With his goal. Yzerman be­came the fifth player in Detroit history to score 300 goals, joining Gordie Howe (786), Alex Delvecchio ( 456), Ted Lindsay (335} and Norm Ullman (324}. 
Flyers 6, North Stars 3 
Philadelphia rookies Mike Ricci and Dale Kushner both scored their first NHL goals and Keith Acton added three assists as the Philadelphia Flyers snapped a four-game losing streak with a 6-3 victory over the Minnesota North Stars. 
The North Stars remained winless on the road this season with an 0-7-1 record. 
Flyers goaltender Ken Wregget increased h,is overall record to 7-3 this season in turning back 25 shots. The vic­tory was his first since Oct. 20. 
Ricci, the team's first-round draft choice in June, played in his first game since breaking a right index finger in the season opener at Boston Oct. 6. 
Bruins 3, Blues 2 
Cam Neely scored an unas­sisted goal at 3:14 of overtime and the Boston Bruins ended St. Louis' seven-game unbeaten streak with a 3-2 victory over the Blues. 

* ND/SMC SKI CLUB * 
* * 
PRESENTS:

* * 
* 
* 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
STEAMBOAT, LORADO
* * 
Fri. Jan. 4 , Sun. Jan. 13

* * 
* $420 • Transportation via bus * 
• 7 nights lodging on the mountain 

* * 
-6 day lift pass 

* • 2 group parties * 
* • BBQ on the mountain * 
• 2 free races 

* * 
Informational Meeting/ Last Sign Ups Monday Nov. 5 
* * 
8:00pm Nieuwland Science Building rm. 127

* *
Questions· Call: Bob 283-3588 or Chris 283-1606
* * 
* 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre * 



ATLANTA (AP) -The bank account of a current Georgia football player was used to funnel money from an agent to former Bulldog running back Keith Henderson during the 1988 season, The Atlanta Constitution reported in Friday's editions. 
The newspaper said that bank records showed that Jerry Schwartz, a New York accountant who said he was then associated with sports agent Harold "Doc" Daniels, transferred $2,000 into the ac­count of Bryant Gantt at the Citizen and Southern National Bank in Athens on Dec. 20, 1988. 
"Henderson dido't have a 
bank account," Schwartz said. "He asked me to wire the money to {Gantt's) account." 
Gantt currently is a senior outside linebacker at Georgia. Henderson is now a running back with the San Francisco 49ers. 
The paper said Gantt and a bank official confirmed that the player's account number is the same as the one appearing on the transfer documents. 
Gantt denied knowledge of the transaction. 
"I don't remember receiving any money," Gantt said Thursday. "If it was done, it was done without my knowl­edge. That's definitely my checking account number." 
WANTED: UVE-IN STAFF IN A LOVELY APARTMENT PROVIDED IN EXCHANGE FOR NIGHT-TIME AND ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES Dlsmas Is a home where Notre Dame $.tudents live with ex-offenders in a beautiful house in a historic diStrict seven minutes from Notre Dame. We want a grad student or couple to live ~ere in residence. Free room and board is provided in exchange for certain assigned responsibilities. Send letter or resume to Dismas, P.O. Box 4571, South Bend, IN 46634. Direct questions to J.im Roemer, Community Relations, Notre Dame (239­6614).  
Saint Mary's College Senior Father/Daughter WEEKEND EVENTS ----Friday, November 2 9 p.m.-I2 a.m. Casino Night Angela Athletic Facility ----Saturday, November 3---­8 a.m.-II a.m. Sporting Events Angela Athletic Facility II a.m. Speaker Fr. Hesburgh (reception following) Carroll Auditorium I2 p.m.4 p.m. Join everyone at Senior Kelley's & McConnick's to watch the ND/Navy game. 6 p.m.-I2 a.m. Dinner/Dance South Dining Hall (ND) ---~Sunday, November 4---­9 a.m.-I0:30 a.m. Continental Breakfast Clubhouse I 0:30 a.m. Mass Church ofLoretto  

Gantt said he never looks at his bank statements because he knows what he puts in and what he takes out of his ac­count. 
"I don't have anything to say," Henderson told the paper. 
Vince Dooley, Georgia's ath­letic director, said he would "cheek on Gantt's involvement immediately." 
"I want to see what his knowledge of this is or if he knew that was money hP shouldn't be getting," Dooley said. "If hP knew, that will af­fect his eligibility." 
Henderson had a year of eli­gibility remaining when he chose to bypass his final year to play in the NFL. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
was a goal for the Irish, and they seemed to do just that. "I felt like we competed as a team," said junior Katie Kavanaugh. "Everyone has been playing different positions because of injuries, but we came together tonight and played with confidence." Although the Illini have had a tendency to let some close matches slip away, the Irish could not come up with enough offensive power to grab one from Illinois. "Notre Dame played a great defensive game," said Illini freshman Kristen Henriksen, "We've been shaky a few times this season and tend to let down, but we played well tonight." 


ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 


-----------------------------------------~----------------­
Friday, November 2, 1990 

St. Louis kicks Irish out of MCC tourney 


DRIVE TO CURE PARALYSIS 
GAMES PLAYED FRIDAY-SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9-11 AT THE LOFTUS CENTER 
Cit MEN'S, WOMEN'S & CO-REC DIVISIONS $25.00 ENTRY FEE A~L PROCEEDS WILL BE DONATED TO THE MIAMI PROJECT SPONSORED BY NVA 
el

TEAM ENTRIES ACCEPTED THROUGH NOVEMBER 5 
Dilucia 
continued from page 20 
clinch the match at 4-1. However, he blew two break points, giving Cocotos some hope that he might come back. DiLucia held serve the next game, and then closed out the match two games later. This morning at 9 a.m., DiLucia will face Ivan Boron, the No. 1 seed at Georgia and the top­ranked junior player in the world. Boron won the Italian Open juniors and was a semifinalist in the junior sec­tions of the French Open and Wimbledon. More recently, Boron won the 
U.S. National Juniors in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and two weeks ago won the Southern Invitational. 
:.t ,·
SfEAKS ~­
PRIME RIB . .\_ 
I 
SEAFOOD ~~~&se 
HRfSTNJRAJ"'T 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 

We're Fighting For Your Life. 
penalty kick for the 12th­ranked Billikens (15-3-2). 
The Irish hung tough with Saint Louis throughout the match, creating several scoring chances, but were unable to find the back of the net. In the end, Notre Dame came away with nothing to show for its efforts except for its fourth straight loss. 
I
• 
41 


---~ -----------~--------------------------------~-----------------~----------~.---~­
,,)1') "' \, .,_,.,. ~\''_:~-· '\" ~-L.l,' l 
.'1 t.}ll~;q 

Friday, November 2, 1990 The Observer page 17 

~am... 
simplY ,
··the Vest. 
~ 
~-""""'-~, 
FREE'TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHAS~I 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION CALL TODAY 
272·7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 

Confident Bears look to maintain substantial lead over 2nd-place Bucs 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) .:.... Their coach received a vote of confidence this week. Now, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers hope to give themselves one with a vic­tory over the Chicago Bears. 
The NFC Central Division ri­vals meet Sunday with the Bears (6-1) having an opportu­nity to take a commanding lead over the second-place Bucs (4­4), who are trying to work their way out of a tailspin that's taken the luster off a promising start. 
After winning three of its first four games, Tampa Bay has lost three of the last four to teams it was expected to beat. Two losses to Dallas and a 41-10 setback at San Diego last week raised questions that owner Hugh Culverhouse answered about coach Ray Perkins' future with the club. 
Culverhouse said Perkins, in the fourth year of a five-year contract, will return in 1991 even if the team doesn't win another game or fails to make the playoffs for the eighth con­secutive season. 
''I'm perfectly pleased with Ray Perkins," the owner said. "I have no reason not to believe that he will have a winning team." 
Beating the Bears would take some of the heat off Perkins as well as the team, which is growing weary of what some players perceive as a negative 
~ 


GODUSH BEAT NAVY 
Oven-baked 4-Egg Omelettes On Sale through November 

OPEN AT6:30AM DAILY 
attitude among fans and the media. 
"This could be the week for us to get something under our belt to give us some leverage where everybody doesn't have all this worry about what's happening to our team," said linebacker Ervin Randle. 
"There's still a lot of football to be played," he added. "Right now, we're coping with the sit­uation as well as we can ... We have to have confidence be­cause that's the only way we're going to work this thing out." 
Defensive breakdowns and poor pass protection have con­tributed to the team's prob­lems. The Bucs also have turned the ball over 12 times in the last two weeks opposed to eight times in the first six games. 
Vinny Testaverde, the league's second highest rated passer, sat out the San Diego game to give a turf toe injury a chance to heal. He will return against the Bears, but hopes to get better support than Chris Chandler, who was sacked four times and hurried into four in­terceptions by the Chargers. 
The Bucs gained a season­low 157 yards against San Diego, including 38 yards rushing on 18 attempts. Now, here come the Bears with the NFL's fourth-ranked defense and the league's most productive running game. 
Serving 
ND/SMC 
Students 
for 25 years 
rcO'LoNW.PANCAKEHOUsE1 I APPLE PANCAKE I 
SAVE s1.00
1 1 
Exp.12·30-9o offJ 
Fc~ON~::;:,.~~o~e1
I ANY CREPES I 
I SAVE St.OO I L~~~o_ _gffj 

RECEIVE 10°/o OFFFOOD EVERYDAY!! 
~~ With Student ID at 
SNEAKERS 
Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Come Watch the Irish on one of 5 T.V.s 
* Shoot hoops or play darts on one of 3 dartboards 
* Enjoy nightly specials with pizzas, sandwiches, & appetizers ND 
* Dance while a DJ plays every Friday & Saturday Night 
Located in University Lanes-_1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 

"They're really impressive. They're playing football the way you did 20 years ago," said Perkins. "They even remind you of it with those black shoes they wear." 
Chicago is averaging 173.1 yards per game on the ground, and the success the Bears have had running the ball has helped the development of Jim Harbaugh, who's completed 
62.9 percent of his passes for 1,043 yards and six touch­downs while throwing only four interceptions. 
Perkins said the biggest dif­ference in the Bears who've won six of their first seven games and the Bears who lost 10 of their last 12 after a 4-0 start in 1989 is that they're playing together as a team again. 
"They're playing basically the same people ... They're just playing more with a mission than they were last year," said Perkins, whose team beat Chicago twice last season, end­ing Tampa Bay's 12-game los­ing streak against the Bears. 
"The thing that impresses me is that they're getting better as the season goes on," the Bucs coach said. "They've made some changes in their defense that's made it more sound, they're running the ball well and playing real inspired foot­ball." 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
program, we would just as soon be playing good teams like we are as playing Division III teams," Schafer says. "We ran up against some teams that are 
a little better than we are. For instance, Minnesota is a great team. Even though we lost, we actually played well against them, but they are so fast that it seemed like they were playing at 100 percent and we were playing at 50 percent." Freshman goaltender Greg Louder has given the Irish 100 percent this season. He has 121 saves in his first three games and a sparkling save percent­age of . 903. Schafer is already comparing him to Lance Madson, who graduated last year holding several Notre Dame records." "The constant play of Greg Louder has been a definite plus for us," Schafer says. "He has picked up right where Lance Madson left off last year. I just hope that someday our defense can give him more protection." Defense has been a sore spot for the Irish this season. The Irish have had trouble putting the puck in the net, and that concerns Schafer as well. "Our first line has been doing most of the scoring for us this year, but this is a team which has scored five goals in three games," Schafer says. "Still, things will get better. 'We can do better' is our motto right now. We are just looking to get back on the right track" The Irish hope find that track against Kent State. "It's been hard so far, but we have played reasonably well in spots," Schafer says. "We plan to be competitive this week­end." The Irish will have to be com­petitive without defenseman Kevin Patrick. The junior from Schenectady, N.Y. is lost for the season with a knee injury. 

pca~g~e~1~8----------------------------------------------~T~h~e_O~bs~e~N~e~r~--------------------------------~F~riday,November2, 1990 
Men's, women's lnterhall football playoffs to kick off 

Alumni tries to defend title 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The men's Interhall football playoffs begin this weekend with defending champion Alumni (4-0) facing Leahy league rival Stanford (1-1-2), while Off-Campus (3-1) meets Fisher (3-1). 
ALUMNI V. STANFORD In their previous meeting, Alumni easily handled Stanford 16-0. However, both coaches felt that game was an aberration. "Since it was the first game," Alumni coach Paul Szyperski said, "a lot of our team is the same team from last year. We've all played together ... we might have capitalized on the fact that we were working together, knew each other real well." "In that game, we just weren't prepared," Stanford coach Sean Gilboy said. "We had a lot of penalties called against us. We also missed a lot of tackles." 
Gilboy noted that while the defense gave up only 16 points against the Dogs, it has not been scored upon since. He feels this is due to implement­ing more defensive schemes into their game plan. Alumni possesses a potent of­fensive attack, averaging 15.5 points per game. Quarterback Jim Passinault has a wide array of options to choose from: run­ning backs Dave Ludwig and Mark Ross have consistently had big games, and wide re­ceiver Pete Parten and tight end John Carretta are big targets for Passinault to hit. At the same time, the Dog defense has given up only one touchdown all year. The Stud offense has struggled this year, only scoring one touchdown. Stanford will be hurt by the absence of starting tailback Mike McKelvy due to an ankle injury. Tony Augustino, also a standout de­fensive end, will team with Sean White in the Stud backfield. Quarterback Brian Jockisch has two capable wide receivers in Chris Ebert and Kevin Coffman. White and 

Eight teams qualify for women's playoffs 
BY CHAD WISHCHUK Top-seeded and unbeaten Sports Writer Breen-Philips (5-0) faces 
eighth-seeded P. E. (2-3) at 4:00 They are what every female P.M. Sunday. Second-ranked football player at Notre Dame P.W. (4-1) plays Lyons (2-3). strives to achieve. They are the third-seed Howard; whose only 
culmination of weeks of sweat loss was to B.P., takes on Off­and tension. They are the Campus (3-2), and no. four dream that completely fills Farley (4-1) and no. five Lewis their minds in the fall. They are (3-2) square ofT. this year's women's interhall Everybody is gunning for the football playoffs. unscathed giants from Breen­
Eight teams have passed the Philips, and yet co-captain fiery tests of skill and discipline Kristen Ballard claims that the to have earned a berth in the team is relaxed, optimistic, and 
1990 playoffs. Beginning unified. Sunday at one o'clock at Stepan "The two week layoff since Field, and winding up on before Fall Break has caused November 18 in the Stadium, this week's workouts to be a the eight squads with the top little shaky," said Ballard. "We winning percentages over the are experimenting with a course of the regular season couple new plays, but overall will battle for the coveted the team is continuing to do the championship jackets. same kind of positive things we 
American Heart ft Association ~ 
Fred Coffman lead an excellent linebacking corps in the Stud 4­4. The game will be decided by Stanford's ability to move on the Dog defense. In their first meeting. the Studs were unable to sustain a long drive. and Alumni capitalized on excellent field position. If Stanford can control the ball, create some opportunities, and keep Alumni's offense ofT the field as much as possible. it can pull ofT the upset. 
OFF-CAMPUS V. FISHER At first glance. this game has the makings of a romp: big­dorm pounding on small-dorm. However, if the Crime overlook Fisher and focus on a rematch against Grace in the semifinals, the Green Wave are very ca­pable of beating them. "We have to take them seri­ously," said Crime coach Tom Helms. "We can't afford to lose at this point. Fisher's a tough team, and we're not overlook­ing them at all. They made the playoffs. They had a good year. We're looking forward to play­ing them." OfT-Campus' offense comes into this game having racked up 22 points against Dillon in its season finale. The running back battery. led by Phil Coury, is potent, and quarterback Bob Allard has a couple of fine re­ceivers in split end Chuck Moser and tight end James Dillard. The Crime use a 5-2 defense headed by inside linebackers Antwon Lark and John Schoen, and lineman Tom Sutliff. Fisher averaged 14.3 points per game in the regular season. The Green Wave option attack is led by quarterback Rick Ebert and tailback Mick Green. Wide receiver Renzy Smith has three touchdowns this year, as well as several other key recep­tions. The defense has been incon­sistent this year, shutting out two opponents and giving up 29 to the other two. The play of inside linebackers Gene Richards and Joe Mattio will be key to Fisher's success. According to Green Wave coach 
,.". 

k~M 
. . ThelherverITrey Reyrra,dThe Alumm Dogs try to defend the1r lnterhall football crown this weekend when they t k rival Stanford in the first round of the playoffs. a e on Leahy league 
Ebert, another key will be Fisher's conditioning. "Our entire front line on both offense and defense. in addition to some skill players, go both ways." said Ebert. "Hopefully, we won't collapse by the time the second half rolls around. That's the main thing. We also need to get some key turnovers, and score ofT those turnovers." In order for Fisher to move on in the playoffs, it must hope that its defense is on one of its peaks and can stop the Crime. Fisher has the offensive weapons to move on Off­Campus, but if the Green Wave are pushed on both sides of the ball, the Crime will have a field day due to their depth advan­tage. Look for Fisher to try some trick plays in order to get an early lead and hope the Crime panic. NOTES: If inclement weather occurs, teams should call NVA to see if games have been 
moved inside the Loftus Center. 
did all year." 

B.P. 
is led by running back Kristy Alkidas, quarterback Kim Smith, and Alyssia McNeil in the secondary. They hope to lead B.P. to a different playoff result than last year. In 1989, 

B.P. 
also went undefeated, yet lost in the opening round of the playoffs. 


P.W. has other ideas. Following the reversal of the outcome of their controversial overtime loss to Lewis, the girls of P.W., under the tutelage of Danica Petroshius and Heidi Hansan, are determined to go all the way. 
"Practices have been excep­tional," Hansan noted. "We are working hard and everything seems to be going smoothly. We are intense." 
ftAmerican HeartV'Association 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la·N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~"(e~ 
\\\1­c\'3-~..,  \.9(J\S'-'3-"(  1'>..~ ..sr· ¢  s0  \ o~·  fKAPLAN STANlfY H. KAPt.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. DONT COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE  
1717 E. South 8end Ave. South Oend, liN! 466H Phone 2l9/272-4lJ~  

-----·~-------------------------------­
Friday, November 2, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS ACROSS 31 Adherent 59 Pasternak 34 Foe for Puss in 
character Sunday 1 Sorcery Boots 65 Dearth 6 Impecunious 35 School gp. 66 Goodbye, to 10 They go with 37 Cloak: conceal Guido 
ends

1 p.m. Open llouse hostnd by lloly Cross Collnge. 67 At no time 
14 Fishes Without 39 Morley of CBS 
Information program about thn eollege in the auditorium 
pelvic fins 41 Rad1cal org. in 
at I :30 p.m. Faculty. administrators and starr will be 
15 Scarce the 60's 
prt!sent to answer questions and provide personal tours. 
16 Stroller, m Soho 43 Old Nick 70Composer
For mow information. call 2:l3-6H13. 
17 English pony 44 Accustomed 18 Where to find 46 "The Name of 71--ex Columbus the Rose" mach ina 19 Adams or author 72 Elderly LECTURE CIRCUIT Sedgwick 48 Chink or crack 73 Procacious 20 Marlowe 49 Type of cap 
Friday character 50 Abstract being 22 Pilotless a1rcratt 52 Makes tracks 23 Olympic exile 54 Ike's opponent
3 p.m. Vilruvius Colloquium. "llarmony and Type, 
24 A star of "What's 56 One of the 
l.aq.:e and Small Scale", by Thomas Gordon Smith, in autoists
Up. Doc?" conglomerateslloorn 204, t\rchitectum Building. Sponsored by the ar­
26 Dugout gear 57 Cams or rhitPrlurp deparlnwnl. 30 Wooden peg Panthera (equal to) 
4 Concept 

3:15 p.m. "Tiwy Call Iter Pastor: Women !leading 5 Fortuitous 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Objects 7 Punchbowl's 

l'ril!stlnss l'arislws," by Professor Huth Wallaee, sociolo­

~ist from (ieor~n Washington Univf!rsity, in Hoom 1:n, 
s1te

UPdo Faculty llall. 
6 Prayer 
9 -­
Speedwagon (rock group) 
MENUS 
10 "Lulu" or 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's "Lakme" 
11 Hugh Lofting 
character
Beef pot pin 
12"The­

Irish fried llounder Swent and sour pork 
Curse":

Beef noodl!! casserole Baked fish dijonaise 
Hammett

Vegetabln calzone Deli bar 
13 P1 nta1l duck

Grillt>d turkny stPak Mozzan~lla sandwich 
22 "The Dancing Class" painter 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON· CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
Tl-\t. ~f>..RO l>f>..RI R:lR IJS ~'i/1.~1· <;(>.R()£ ro':>l 1'\00ERN ~T\St':, 1'5 OC<...iO'.!'-\G W\-\t:ffit:R OR ~Ci\ TO E1-\BR/I.C£. 
~t.\EitC\/I.LI':>It',. 
Of CO\JI?St., W~t.N Mol ji.,RT\ST G::J't.':> C.OW....t: ROt-.l , \\t. M~'l£'S A. 1'<\CX.I(t:R'{ OF 1\\S '3Tji.,\US fl-S AN OIJ\5\0£R fl-NO Fll.\1. i\11!-IV.\l. 1\£ 'all~S IN\C T\\'1=. CRt-.SS f>.N\) S\I(>..LLO't-1 'I(>..L\JE.S t>.RI '5"0\JLD Tim-l'SC£1'\0. HE. \Rt-.()£:5 n-1£. IN~GR\~ Ot \-\\':> t-.RI toR-~ J\ 
R\C\.\£'S M-Ji}ID~
'---_'"..," \ 'c_ ti\1'<\£ fg
' ~ ­
1­



T_QNIGHI, Nov. 2 and Saturday, Nov. 3: 
The Hunt for Red October 
Cushing Auditorium Playing at 8PM and 1 0:30PM. Tickets are $2. 

25 Name, in Nice 26 Presuppose 27 Capital of Guam 28 Sax Rohmer 
character 29 Bambi, for one 32 Like Goliath: 
1 Sam. 17:50 33 Yurts 36 "Pink Marsh" 
author 38 Tweed twitter 40 Staggers 42 Having a split 
personality 
SPELUNKER 

45 Key to heredity eo Assess • 47 Pledge 61 Comedienne 
Vague

51 What they sold 
&2Rara­

in "Tin Men" 63 Turns right 
53 Smarts 64 Party in 55 Fists, to boxers 
Gomorrah 57 Pleased 
66 Presidential 58 Relieve monogram 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 




Spc~rts
Friday, November 2, 1990 page 20 

NotrE! Dame volleyball team falls to Illinois in three sets 
Sht>lton brought a st>rond wind
BY DAVE MCUAHON if they ran bring it into
into tht> Irish. Notn• Danw got
Sports Writer upcoming ganws against
to within four points at n-<J. Westt•rn Michigan and abut t h t' I 3 t h-ran kP d Ill i n i 
Against an ovt>rpowt>ring Midwt•stt' rn Collt•giate
pullt>d out tlw st'l·ond ganw.
Illinois tf'am that outblorkt>d Confert'tH't~ matchup against
15-<J.

tht> Irish 14-5. tht> Notrt• DamP Xavit>r.
Playing with visiblP im·pntiw.
womPn 's vollt> vball tPam suf­"This has bt't'n a tough year
thP Irish rpfused to go down
ft>rt>d tht>ir six .h straight loss. for us," commPnted Stark, who 
without a light. as frpshman
10-15. 9-15. 12-15 Thursdav finished tht' evPning with a
Molly Amw Stark forced two
night. Notrt> Da mt>'s ( 7-1 9) nPxt tt•am high tt'n digs on dnfensP.
st>rvict> at't'S Pn routP to a 5-2
oppont>nt is W~stt>rn Mifhigan "Wp playPd well on dPfenst'
lt>ad in the third game. After
Univt>rsity Sa :urday night at and got to every ball. They
an lllinois timPOUt, hOWI'Vt'r,
Kalamazoo. had a little extra edge that wt•
tht> lllini rPtaliated, tying the
Tht> lllini (16-7) improvt>d didn't have. but I think we 
srort> at 7-7.

their rPrord to 4-0 against started playing better as a
The Irish matrht>d Illinois
Notre DamP. although tht> Irish team tonight than WI' have
point for point bt>fore freshman
have takf'n tht>m to fivp gamps been."
st>ttt'f Jant>lle Karlan smashed
in two out of thP last thrt>P Sophomore Alicia Turner led 
a servirt> art> past an unaware
matches. all players with 14 kills and
Illini defenst>, giving Notre
Illinois put thP injury-plaguPd managed almost half of the
DamP an 11-10 lead. The Irish 
Irish at bay t>arly, winning the Irish total of 32. Sophomore
could not come up with a tina!
first gamt> 15··10 with a .304 Marilyn Cragin followed with 6 
surge, howt>ver, and lllinois
tPam attack pPrrPntagP rom­kills. while Stark and Shelton
took the final game 15-12. 
parPd to thP Irish's .125, tallied six each. 
TheClbse!ver I~ ~key Despite the loss, Notre Dame
Tht> Irish fell behind in the Playing a competitive match
seemed to play with an
Katie Kavanaugh prepares to serve to Illinois on Thursday. The Irish 
second game, 9-4, before a 
lost to the lllini in straight sets. 
N D hockey team looks for first win against Kent St. 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor

.. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will travel to Kent State this weekend in search of its first victory of the season. 
The Irish (0-3), who split two games with the Flashes last season, will play on Friday and Saturday night at Kent. Kent State (1-2), lost its first two games of the season against Miami of Ohio before beating Mercyhurst 6-1. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, has lost three tough games against difficult competition. The Irish lost 7-2 to No. 3 Minnesota in Minneapolis on Oct. 23, and then were swept by Alaska Fairbanks in a two-game series last weekend. Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer has not become disheartened by his 

.. team's setbacks, though. "With a developing Division I 
see HOCKEY I page 17 

intensity that should be helpful see IRISH/ page 15service ace by senior Tracey 
Back for more 
Notre Dame nose tackle Chris Zorich (50) was named as one of four finalists for the Lombardi Award on Wednesday for the second straight year. 

Dilucia triumphs in first round of Volvo Invitational 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 

Dave DiLucia won his opening­round match in the Volvo All­America Tournament in Athens, Georgia yesterday. DiLucia defeated Chris Cocotos of Stanford 6-1, 0-6, 6-3. Cocotos is the top-ranked 18­and-under player in the U.S. 
DiLucia opened the match aggressively, using a serve­and-volley attack to dominate Cocotos. He never allowed Cocotos to establish his game, and easily won the first set. 
In the second set, DiLucia let up mentally. He missed many first serves and made a lot of unforced errors in his ground­strokes. Cocotos took advan­tage of DiLucia's lapse by tak­ing the second set at love. 
In the third and deciding set, DiLucia got an early break and made it hold up. He went up 3­0 and had a chance to virtually 
see DILUCIAI page 16 
Saint Mary's diver excels both in and out of the pool 
By CHRIS BACON she placed sixth and received 
Last season, the Belles placed Toni Olivieri, a qualifier for and EMILY WILLETT All-American status. fourth in the relays. Coach nationals her freshman and ju­Sports Writers "I was very excited," Cummins Cooper is using tonight's meet nior years, and selected as an 
said. "I worked hard. I would to test the level of performance NAJA Scholar Athlete in the 
Time-management is perhaps have been happy with anything, from both the returning divers 1989-90 SllaSOn. 
the most-preached concept in because I know I did the best and the freshmen. The tlmm n~eorded its first freshman year. For Saint that I could do." winning season und1~r Cooper Mary's first-ever All-American "It's well deserved," Belles "The relays serve as a kind of last year, finishing 7-4. CoopPr diver Carrie Cummins, it is a head coach Dennis Cooper said. 'fun' meet to see how the team feels confident in his team's way of life. "It took some time to get her will handle competition." ability to havt~ yet another win­
Cummins, a junior from there, and we knew that she Cooper said. "It's one thing to ning season. Dayton, Ohio, manages not only belonged there." see the team in practice, but to participate in student But Cummins's accomplish­the meet will show who the "The team has a lot of po­government and alumni rela­ments don't end in the water. racers are." tential," Cooper said. "Tht~ re­tions, but also practices two Off the boards, Cummins's aca­turning lettermen set a positive 
hours a day, five days a week demic performance earned her While the team returns a core attitude for the freshmen. The for the Saint Mary's Swimming a place on the 1990 College of nine lettermen. a strong freshmen bring a greater depth and Diving team. It is this type Swimming Coaches Association support of freshmen join the in every position than we 'vt~ .. of budgeting of time that has of America all-academic team. Csn1e Clmnlns team . ever had before." 
allowed Cummins to excel both on and off the boards. 
Last season, Cummins set school records in both the one meter and 3 meter springboard events (224.7, 241.25, respec­tively) and was awarded the 1989-90 Coach's Award. Not only that, but Cummins's record in the 3m qualified her for the NAIA nationals, where In order to qualify for this award, Cummins had to earn a 

3.5 G.P.A. as well as compete in individual events. 
"I wasn't aware that I could even get an award [like this)." Cummins said. "It really was a surprise." 
As far as Cummins is con­cerned, her awards are great, but there are more important things to focus on, like tonight's season opener at the Notre Dame Relay's, and the rest of the season. 
"Notre Dame Relays are a lot of fun," Cummins said. "It's all teamwork, and you get to see a lot of teams that you otherwise wouldn't see. It's also a chance to see how much you need to improve." 
Returning strengths include sophomore swimmer Jenny Danahy, who set the school record in the 200-meter breast­stroke at the 1990 NAIA na­tional meet. junior Michelle Colburn, another qualifier for nationals both her freshman and sophomore years in the 100 and 200 backstroke, and Cummins's ability in and out of the water certainly sets an example for her teammates, as does her attitude. 
"I'm just exdted about diving," Cummins said. "Getting on boards, going to me1~ts and diving with other ptwple-that's what practiee is all about." 









