
VOL. XXIII NO. 100 FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Endara goes on hunger strike to call for U.S. aid 
PANAMA CITY (AP) -President Guillermo Endara went on a hunger strike Thursday, ap­parently to protest plans to drastically cut a Bush administration request for U.S. aid to re­build Panama. 
Endara set himself up in the Metropolitan Cathedral. announcing his strike was "in soli­darity with my fellow citizens in Panama who suffer malnutrition because of poverty." He made no explicit mention of U.S. aid. 
However, he hinted broadly at the underlying purpose of his fast when he told the National Assembly in a speech shortly before: "Let God enlighten those who have the decision to under­take efforts to provide the necessary financing to solve our people's most urgent problems." 
On Wednesday, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that deals with foreign aid, vowed he would cut the $500 million aid proposal sharply because it was too much to give to Panama. 
• Bush lifts final sanctions against Panama I page 6 
"I guarantee you that's not going to happen," Leahy said, referring to the aid package. "There will be no half a billion dollars." 
"I wouldn't support that, and I'm not sure many others will," he said in an interview. 
Leahy said congressmen would prefer to give some of the money, if it is available, to emerging new democracies in Eastern Europe. He also said he would like to see more go to meet hu­manitarian needs in Mrica. 
In his speech broadcast on Panamanian radio and television, Endara said he would continue to work in coming days, despite his fast. He did not say how long the hunger strike would last. 
In Los Angeles, President Bush announced he had lifted the last sanctions against Panama imposed for its failure to cooperate in drug­fighting efforts. The move will allow low tariffs and fees on Panamanian impnrts. 
see ENDARA I page 6 

Seabrook nuclear plant opens amid controversy 

ROCKVILLE, Md. (AP) -The 
Seabrook, N.H., nuclear power 
plant won federal permission 
Thursday to produce commer­
cial electricity after two 
decades of protests and legal 
struggles that made it a symbol 
of the national anti-nuclear 
movement. 

The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission voted 3-0 to grant 
a license for Seabrook to oper­
ate at full power but delayed is­
suing it for two weeks -to al­
low an expected appeal in fed­
eral court. 

Two of the commission's five 
members abstained from the 
vote because of involvement in 
Seabrook issues prior to be­
coming commissioners. 
• Reactions to opening mixed I page 5 

Opponents have long main­tained that people near the plant would be trapped in a nu­clear emergency, and officials in Massachusetts, with a border just two miles from Seabrook said they would indeed take th~ case to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington. 
Foes also claimed a broader victory, contending that as a result of the long fight against Seabrook, no utility would be willing to risk the monetary and other costs of trying to build and open another nuclear plant. 
~he commission's ruling ratified recommendations by its 

see SEABROOK I page 6 
Greyhound workers strike today after contract expires 
DALLAS (AP) -The union representing 6,300 Greyhound bus drivers told its members Thursday to prepare to go on strike early Friday against America's only nationwide bus company. 
Greyhound Lines Inc., mean­while, worked to ensure that no passengers would be stranded by a walkout. 
Union President Edward 
Strait said the 6,300 drivers and 3,075 office and mainte­nance workers should walk off the job at 12:01 a.m. MST Fri­day unless told otherwise by the Amalgamated Council of Grey­hound Locals or local union of­ficials. The current three-year 
pact expires at midnight Thursday. 
Greyhound has "declared a war on the members of this union," said Harold Mend­lowitz, president of Local 1202 in New York City, which also covers Albany, N.Y.; Hartford, Conn.; and Montreal. 
"If it's a fight that they want it's a fight they are going to get," said Mendlowitz, who added that 60 union men wear­ing fatigues and carrying bats were guarding a Manhattan Greyhound garage Thursday 


Nicaraguan President-elect Violeta Barrios de Chamorro is lifted up the stairs in her wheelchair as she ar­rives for a press conference in Managua. 
afternoon. "We will do what­ever we have to do to defend our jobs." 
Strait, repeating accusations that Greyhound is not bargain­ing in good faith, said the strike had been called because the company would not delay implementing a contract re­jected by union members. 
"The union is now in the pro­cess of making a counteroffer to avert a work stoppage if at all possible," Strait said. "The union's counteroffer will cost the company no more than $20 million during the first year, re­flecting a wage and benefit in­crease averaging 4 percent to 5 percent." 
Greyhound -which says it cannot afford to increase its 
see STRIKE I page 8 

Sandinistas plagued by military desertions 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -Young soldiers have begun to desert from the Sandinista armed forces as the deadline nears for President Daniel Ortega to step down from of­fice, draftees and draftees' rel­atives said Thursday. 
• U.S. says Mexico financed Ortega campaign I page 9 
Ortega was defeated in Sun­day's election by Violeta Bar­rios de Chamorro, who has promised to abolish the draft after she is inaugurated on April 25. Some deserters are apparently planning to hide out until that happens. 
Her office announced mean­while Thursday that the presi­dent-elect will send a special mission to the United States next week to seek economic aid for Nicaragua, ravaged through the years by economic mismanagement and U.S.-im­posed sanctions. 
It s.aid Francisco Mayorga, 41, who has done postgraduate work at Yale, will head the mis­sion. Mayorga has often been mentioned as possible minister of economy after Chamorro 
see CHAMORRO I page 9 
Friday, March 2, 1990
page 2 The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
When it comes to Lent, don't just 'give up' 
Even though the 0 " ' season of Lent has al­ready begun many people are still delib­erating about what to "give up." 
Since childhood, it has been instilled in Catholics tha.t we Janice O'Leary mus~ make ~ difficult Asst. News Editor 
sacnfice dunng Lent, just as Christ sacri---------­ficed so much for us. I can recall giving up many things, the 
most common of which was probably candy. I would try to last that 40 days and 40 nights without my sugar fix. 
The culmination of Lent is Holy Week and finally Easter. For most children this means the end of the torture of not having candy or cookies. It also means gorging on their Easter basket, that wonderful invention that ranks Easter right up there with Halloween on the chocolate scale. 
What one gave up for Lent was a hot topic at school. Kids competed to see who could give up the most difficult thing and stick to it. Unfortunately, the real meaning of Easter is often lost amid the hype and hoopla of baskets and eggs. The "giving up" becomes a competition. 
We like to think that this changes as we get older, and sometimes it does. But it seems as though young adults, especially, tend to give up something that is really for the purpose of bettering themselves through methods other than imitating Christ. 
My original Lenten plan was to give up eating between meals and to give up fried foods. Granted, this may prove difficult to do, but when I thought about my real rea­sons for doing it I realized my priorities 
were in the wrong places. 
I wanted to give up fried foods mostly be­cause I know I eat too much of them and they are bad for me. I was giving up eating between meals to lose those extra pounds that always seem to stay with me. 
After examining my false motives I redefined Lent for myself to include doing more in the spirit of Christ. Instead of doing something for myself, I think it would be more appropriate to do something for others: to be kinder; to pay more attention to those around me, and to be more generous in my actions, thoughts and words. 
I am not saying we should do away with Easter baskets and kill the Easter bunny. We can give up eating sweets any time of the year; that is something you should do for yourself. Lent is a special time, so you should do something special and try to con­tinue it after the season ends. 
I feel that the emphasis during Lent should be focused not on giving up some­thing, but rather on giving more of some­thing. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)·239-7471 Fridlly'a Staff 
5pol1aNllwa 
Frank Pastor Sandra Wiegand Maureen Nelligan Tim O"Keele 
Production 
Cristina Ortiz Aa:«f. 
Usa Eaton Colleen Cronin Paul Pearson VillwpoH 
Kathy Welsh Ado.lgn Becky Pichler Shannon Roach 
Lisa Eaton Amy Eckert Kerry Clair 
SysiiiiTW Kathleen O'Connor 
Cesar Capella Marla Blohm 
Deirdre Bell 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
jury before ruling on a change-of-venue motion. 
INDIANA 

To prohibit the use of skateboards on its eight statewide campuses, Indiana University implemented a new traffic regulation Thursday. The ban was prompted by concern for the safety of people using walkways and streets within IU campuses, said James Kennedy, acting director of administration. "We hope there will be general compliance because we are concerned about the safety of pedestrians as well as those who enjoy riding skateboards," Kennedy said. 
'No smoking' signs were possibly the only thing lit at the Clark County Jail Thursday when a smoking ban took effect. "Smoking is a privi­lege," said county Chief of Police Dean ~arble. "There's nothing that says we have to let mmates smoke." Ashtrays have been moved out of the county police offices and into the entrance hall­ways. Visitors and employees are expected to use them before enterin~. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, March 2. Lines show high temperatures. 

Yesterday's high: 32 Yesterday's low: 18 
Nation's high: 89 (Borrego 
Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low:-9 (Caribou 
and Houlton, Maine) 
Forecast: 
Mostly sunny and 
warmer today. Highs 
around 50. Partly 
cloudy and colder 
tonight and Saturday 
with a 30 percent 
chance of snow show­
ers. Lows tonight 

FRONTS: around 20. Highs Sat­urday in the lower 30s . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
trn ~ [IJ ~~:J ~XXX~
® © ' ~ S~ PT~DY C~21
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLUR,f'IIES SNOW 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
!he Sophomore Literary Festival guest tonight Mark Perlman Paintings will be featured at are­Will be Herbert Mason, Translator of "Gilgamesh," who ception at the Isis Gallery tonight from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. will give a reading of the work at 7:30 p.m. in the Hes­burgh Library Auditorium. Sophomore Business Students interested in 
applying for Assistant Student Body Treasurer may pick
T~e Notre Dame Moot Court fmal argument will up applications in the Treasurers office, Mon. through be giVen today at 4:30p.m. in the Law School Courtroom, Fri. between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. by the Law School's National Moot Court teams. 
Students of German and Russian who intend to 
~verseas Peace Corps Internship for Fall '90, apply for a Culpeper Foundation Summer Stipend this Sprmg '91 or Summer '91 applications are available at year should submit their applications to the German and the Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is Russian Languages and Literatures Department, 318 Friday, March 9. O'Shaughnessy Hall, as soon as possible. The deadline for 
applying is March 7. 
WORLD 
Fierce, frigid winds and blizzards battered Eu­Lithuanians are speeding up election of their rope on Thursday and added to the suffering brought on new parliament so it can vote for independence before by foul weather this week that killed 82 people. Britain, March 12, when Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev is ex­France and West Germany were hit hardest. Nineteen pected to get what on'e activist on Thursday called people were known dead in France, 18 in Britain, 16 in "dictatorial" powers. In the neighboring Baltic republic West Germany, nine in Belgium, seven in Switzerland, six of Latvia, the parliament Thursday chose a collision in Italy, three in East Germany, and one each in Austria, course with Moscow when it gave youths the right to Greece, Ireland and the Netherlands. Gale-force winds, refuse conscription in the Soviet army. And in Moldavia, peaking at 112 mph, buffeted western and northern Aus­another of the increasingly restive Soviet republics, Com­tria and claimed that country's first victim Thursday, a munist leaders admitted their party's past mistakes and 26-year-old brewery worker whose car was hit by a agreed to talks with popular political movements, Tass falling tree, police said. said. 
The case against Manuel Noriega is so closely linked to Fidel Castro that it should be moved out of mili­tantly anti-communist south Florida, a co-defendant's at­torney said in a motion filed Thursday. Samuel Burstyn, an attorney for former Panamanian army Lt. Col. Luis del Cid, said the U.S. District Court trial should be moved to San Francisco, New York or Puerto Rico. Such motions are rarely granted, and judges normally attempt to seat a 
NATIONAL 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March 1, 1990 
Volume In shares 
157.93 Million 
NYSE Index 
183.52 *0.45 
S&P Composite 332.74 '\\-0.85 Dow Jones Industrials 2,635.59 • 8.34 
Precious Metals Gold + $.10 to $409.00/ oz. 
Silveri} 3.1 rt to $5.154/ oz. 
Source: AP 
Andy Rooney returns to "60 Minutes" this Sunday. After CBS on Thursday lifted his suspension early, he said he'll do a commentary on the matter during Sunday's broadcast. ''I'm very pleased," he added after CBS News president David Burke, who on Feb. 8 suspended him for 
three months without pay, reinstated Rooney, effective immediately. Although Burke never specifically said why he suspended Rooney, his action came after The Advocate, a gay magazine, quoted Rooney as saying blacks had "watered down their genes." Rooney denied saying that. 
ALMANAC 

On March2: e In 1861 : Congress created the territory of Nevada. e In 1901: The first telegraph company in Hawaii opened. e In 1929: Congress created the U.S. Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. e In 1939: Cardinal Pacelli elected Pope Pius XII in Rome. eln 1949: Ho Chi Mihn elected president of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi. e In 1969: The California Supreme Court refused Sirhan Sirhan's request to be executed. e In 1974: First Class postage was raised from 8 cents to 10 cents. 

Friday, March 2,1990 

Funeral service held for Lawrence Stauder 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration could sup­port cutting U.S. aid to Israel and Egypt if similar cuts were applied to other nations as a way of freeing money for emerging democracies, Secre­tary of State James Baker said Thursday. 
Baker told a House subcom­mittee that "we're willing to stand up and be counted" on such a plan because it would result in the flexibility to put foreign aid money where it is most needed. 
The secretary also told the panel he has done "pretty much all we can do" to bring the Is­raelis into talks with a Pales­tinian delegation aimed at set­ting up elections in the occupied territories. An Israeli Cabinet meeting was scheduled for Sunday. 
WEEKEND LITURGIES AT THE STEPAN CENTER 
Rev. James King, C.S.C. presiding 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. presiding 
Join our list of satisfied N.D. customers: Office of Student Activities, AnTostal, various dorms, formals & dances, S.U.B., Adworks. Best Prices! Whatever your bash, let us help you celebrate! T-shirts, stadium cups, hats, key chains, all the fun stuff PWS new ideas. Call HURRAY! at 1-294-5631 for Springtime fun! 
In answer to a question by Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., chairman of the House Appro­priations subcommittee on for­eign operations, Baker said administration support for the cuts would "depend on whether we do it in a non-discrimina­tory manner." 
In his busy Middle East diplomacy, Baker said, he has not found any significant re­duction in tensions. But he added: "At the same time, we must find a way to respond to changes in Eastern Europe, in Panama and in Nicaragua." 
"If these leaders are not able 
to produce for their people, we 
will rue the day" that the 
United States fell short in pro­
viding aid, he said. "We are 
talking about supporting an ex­
traordinary outbreak of free­
dom and democracy." 
page 3 
The Observer/Colin McAteer 

Students from campus media organizations comment on changes in Eastern Europe. From left are Derik Weldon of Scholastic, Pat Healy of The Observer and Cathy Cunningham of Common Sense. 
Campus media talks on E. Europe 
By MICHAEL OWEN on Notre Dame. 
News Wnter The discussion was held as a 
response to a week of lectures 
"A university is an optimal on the same topic held by Stu-
place to be to watch the dent Government. Cunningham 
changes that take place in said, "The events over the past 
Eastern Europe and around the year are a trend of self-deter­
world," said a participant in a ruination and peaceful rebel-
discussion on Eastern Europe lion." She focused her eom­
last night. ments on three specific coun-
The panel discussion tries that have been discussed 
"Eastern Europe and Notre this week. 
Dame" was conducted by three Poland, which took "ten 
representatives of campus pub­years, not ten days" to establish 
lications. Derik Weldon of foundations of democracy, was 
Scholastic, Pat Healy of The seen by Cunningham as a 
Observer, and Cathy Cunning­country that "needs to prove to 
ham of Common Sense each of­the U.S. that it has a strong in­
fered their views on the frastructure of government." 
changes there and the effects Hungary, too, was seen as 
~-------------------------. 
LEARN RUSSIAN ON THE BLACK SEA.I 
The programs are organized by Dafna Ronn-Oxley of Vlrtus. Limited in cooperation with Sigma, a privately owned Russian cooperative in Sochl, Russia. There will be 2 sessions: June 8-July 11 and July 6­August 8. each session includes 80 hours of class work taught by qualified teachers at the university level plus 20 hours of class discussion, and also excursions in the area. COST: 1st sesslon-$2500. Price includes the course itself, accomodations with local Russian families, 3 meals per day, excursions and ALL air and land transportation. 2nd sesslon·$2680. Price Includes all of the above plus 4 days In Moscow. FOR INFORMATION CALL 1-800-274-9121 (24 hours a day) and leave your name and address. 
You are invited to an OPEN HOUSE MEETING ON Friday, March 2 between 11 :ooam -3:00pm 
room 

La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame University South Bend, Indiana 


photos. kinko•s· 
the copy center 

• Resume Packages • • 


r:--------------­
I 
• Quality Thesis Copies I I Bring this coupon into a participating Kinko"s Copy Center and receive S2 .00 off I
• Course Packets 

on a set of regularly priced Passport Photos. No appointment necessar)'. Not valid 
• 
Floppy Disks I With any other offer. One coupon per customer. Good throuch 4130190 J 

• 
Term Paper Copies 



Mon.-Fri.-7:00 a.m.-11 :00 p.m.
• Collating/Binding I I 
Sat. -Sun.-9:00 a.m.-6:00p.m.
• Passport Photos 

I I 
• Fax Service 

18187 State Road 23 271-0398
I I 
•••••••••••••L--------------..1 
part of a long term restructur­ing. It now needs to "build a strong middle class and develop Western trade," she said. 
Of all the recently freed coun­tries, East Germany has com­manded the most attention be­cause of the destruction of the Berlin Wall and the possibility of German reunification. The flood of East Germans to the West has increased the former sixty million person population by twenty-five percent in an area the size of the state of Minnesota, Cunningham said. 
East Germany has a strong prospect for economic restruc­turing, she said, because it has "its big brother West Germany with its linguistic and cultural ti~~" an analysis of Mikhail Gorbachev's role in the in­
creased freedom of the East, Pat Healy suggested that "history made the leader, the leader didn't make history." Gorbachev was part of an inevitable stream of events rather than the initiator of them, Healy said. 
Military expansion destroyed 
the economies; it was not a 
sudden trend of good will, he 
said. The new capitalistic sys­
tems will be run by the old 
communist leaders of the coun­
tries in cooperation with the 
business leaders of the West, 
Healy said. 
Derik Weldon of Scholastic spoke of the effects recent events will have on the Notre Dame community. He said these changes help us as students be­cause "they are much clearer than reading an antiquated textbook." 

Special to the Observer 
A funeral service was held for Lawrence Stauder, professor emeritus of electrical engineer­ing, at 10 a.m. today at Stepan Center. 
Stauder taught at Notre Dame from 1937 to 1974. He initiated Eta Kappa Nu, the engineering honor society, and after his retirement from Notre Dame helped with the installa­tion of a new lighting system at St. Joseph Airport. 
Father Edward Malloy, presi­dent of Notre Dame, was the main celebrant, and Father Edmund Goedert was the eulo­gist. 
Stauder died Tuesday at St. Joseph Medical Center. He was 
81. He is survived by his wife, Dolores Tantoco. 
Contributions may be made to the Lawrence Stauder-Price Scholarship or to the Vincent DePaul Society. 
Aid to Egypt, Israel could be reduced 
..---------------------~ -­
4 

UPLAND, Calif. (AP) -Small cities counted the· cost of bro­ken windows and fallen bricks as dozens of aftershocks con­tinued to rattle Southern Cali­fornia on Thursday, the day after a strong earthquake jolted the region. 
The town of Pomona alone suffered at least $20 million in damage, officials said. 
Safety inspectors in Los Angeles and neighboring San Bernardino counties began checking gas and water lines and older, unreinforced brick and masonry buildings in com­munities that sprawl beneath the San Gabriel and San Bernardino mountains. 
Wednesday's 3:43 p.m. quake measured 5.5 on the Richter scale and was centered three miles northwest of Upland, 40 miles east of Los Angeles. 
It was the most serious tem­blor to hit California since Oc­tober's magnitude-7.1 quake in the San Francisco Bay area, which left 67 people dead and sparked fears of the massive earthquake predicted for the state in coming years. 
Dozens of aftershocks con­tinued to shake Southern Cali­fornia on Thursday, with the day's strongest, magnitude 3.0, at 12:55 p.m. 
"We just had a nice little aftershock," Claremont Assis­tant City Manager Bridget Dis­telrath said. "We just get big eyes. They're very short, they don't last long enough to get under a table." 
Immediately after Wednes­day's jolt, there was a 5 percent chance of a larger quake within three days, based on historical 
Summer Jubs 

Over 50.000 summer job openings at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Businesses, Cru1se Lifl9s. Ranches. and more in the U.S .. Canada 
Awstralla. and 20 other countries. Complete d~rectflry only $19.95. Don1 wa1t till after f1nals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937 
''~~Spring Break ~~~~~ IN
0"~CANCUN 
$138 
EE~OO 

7 NIGHT HOTEL PACKAGES AVAILABLE FROM $129 
CAHCOH TOOItS 

Mexico Tours since 1966­Member 888/IATA 602-271-0316 
onn AAI\..Jio~I6 
~ 
200mikis 

statistics, said seismologist Lu­cile Jones of the U.S. Geological Survey in Pasadena. But she said that by Thursday, the probability had dropped to 2 percent or 3 percent. 
Injuries from the quake ap­peared to be minor. Cuts, bruises and a few broken bones were the chief complaints, offi­cials said. 
State Office of Emergency Services officials said it ap­peared that Upland, '~ Verne, Pomona, Ontario and Clare­mont were most affected, with Pomona and Claremont each declaring emergencies. 
La Verne City Council mem­bers on Thursday afternoon decided to withdraw an emer­gency declaration issued the day before. They learned dam­age was likely to range only between $500,000 and 
The Observer 
$750,000, said Mayor Pro Tern 
Thomas Harvey. 
"Things are much better than 
we ever expected," Harvey said, 
adding 62 buildings in La Verne 
were reported damaged. 
Pomona Mayor Donna Smith 
made a preliminary damage 
estimate of $20 million, said 
city fire department Inspector 
Ron Gomez. Pomona City Hall 
was closed as workers shoveled 
out broken glass and repla.ced 
it. 
The city of 113,000 is the 
largest in the immediate vicinity 
of the epicenter. 
There were 120 structures damaged throughout the dty, including the historic Phillips Mansion built in 1875 that was the home of one of the area's founding families, said Smith. A chimney on the mansion crum­bled and crashed through the roof. 
Also in Pomona, brick and concrete trimming from a wall of the chapel of the Trinity United Methodist Church tum­bled through a roof and into an unoccupied Sunday school nursery below. About 40 chil­dren in a day care center in the building escaped injury. 
"It's lucky the Sunday school nursery wasn't being used at the time. I understand there was a brick in a crib," said He­len Tayles, an office manager for the Pomona Unified School District, which operates the center. 


CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 1990 
~-ATTENTION STUDENTS 
Last chance to sign up for "Christmas in April." 
Off Campus Sign-ups: LaFortune information desk. On Campus Sign-ups: Look for posters in your dorm or ask your Hall President. 
THIS PROJECT NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT!!! 
Questions??? Please call: Karen Croteau x1367 Lora Mangan x1314 Isabel Navarrete x1314 Bob Scheibel x2544 


DEADLINE MARCH 5!!! 
---------------~-

APphoto Richard Robles cleans up the mess at the Alpha Grocery Warehouse in Pomona, Calif. after the earthquake yesterday. Mild aftershocks 
continued in the area today. 



No~tre 


Court 
The Fortieth Annual 
Fll\TAL ARGUMENT 
before 

The Ho'n~orable Pierce Lively 
Judge, United States Court ofAppeals 
The Hon~orable John M. Manos 
Judge, United States District Courtfor the Northern District ofOhio 
Patrick F. .McCartan 
Jones, Day, Ret:~.vis & Pogue 
Fritlay 
March 2, 1990 Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Friday, March 2, 1990 


Reactions to opening of Seabrook mixed 
SEABROOK, N.H. (AP) ­Seabrook nuclear plant work­ers cheered and raised a sign proclaiming victory and protesters blocked gates out­side the complex Thursday after the government allowed it to begin producing power. 
About 125 protesters demon­strated at the three gates to the plant. By the time the protest ended around 7:30 p.m., about 6 1/2 hours after it began, po­lice had arrested 72 people, in­cluding 25 juveniles who were not charged, said town police dispatcher Tarnya Janvrin. 
The government announce­
ment flashed in the plant's re­
ception center shortly before 
noon, said Edward Brown, 
president of Seabrook operator 
New Hampshire Yankee. 
Maintenance workers Richard 
Young and Earl Chafe had a 
sign ready and hoisted it on a 
billboard. "Startup '90: We 
Have the Power," it read. 
"It's about time," said 
Young, who has worked at the 
long-delayed plant for more 
than a decade. 
Commission licensing vote gave opponents a stay of up to two weeks to file legal appeals, which foes have promised. The plant has been the subject of anti-nuclear protests since be­fore its 1976 groundbreaking. 
Plant spokesman Dave Scan­zoni noted that a flurry of ap­peals in mid-1989 delayed low­power testing only briefly. "We expect the same situation would happen and we'd be pro­ducing electricity very soon," he said. 
When news of the approval reached 50 demonstrators out­side the gate, they began sing­ing "We Shall Overcome." Kurt Ehrenberg, a veteran protester, became the first to be arrested after he walked through the main gate and posted on a guard shed a sign that read "Shame" over one declaring "License Approved!" 
As protesters chanted slo­gans, 10 teen-agers sat down in the driveway to the gate. They were arrested, as were some 20 demonstrators who walked through the gate later. 

The Seabrook, N.H. nuclear power plant, which received its license Thursday after years of controversy, can be seen from this residential area less than two miles across Hampton Harbor. 
O'Meara writes book on fundamentalism 
The 3-0 Nuclear Regulatory 

PLACEMENT EXAMS FRENCH SPANISH Mandatory Placement Exams in FRENCH and SPANISH will be given on: Thursday, March 8 and Friday, March 9 respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in High School but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame m U S t take a Placement Exam prior to registration. ign up sheets and rurther inrormation are available now in the Language Lab Office Rm. 251 O'Shaughnessy Sign up closes on Wednesday, March 7 at 5:00 m.  

THEY l'IIIGHT BE GIANTS 
~"'I? v'~ 'Oe ~' 
t. 0




({FLOOD JJ 
o(J. "Jo ~ \ v(J. featuring the single & video "Birdhouse In 't'our Soul" 00 t,O 
\. ~ 
0

sale priced this week where all good giants shop: 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS 

Pb. (219) 25a.5898 
OPEN: 

Mon.·fhurL 10 Ill 9 FrL &SaL 11 Ill 10 Sunday 12 te & 
Special to the Observer 

"Fundamentalism: A Catholic Perspective," by Father Thomas O'Meara and William Warren, professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame, has recently been published by the Paulist Press. 
According to O'Meara's foreword, fundamentalism "implies a rejection, more or less, of others. A nat:row and rigid understanding of a reli­gious creed or a political ap­proach will keep its distance from other men and women." While he intends the book to be "a guide to the differences be­tween the Catholic vieyv of Christianity and that espoused by Protestant fundamentalists," the author also offers "observations on the extent of fundamentalism-reaching to Islam and Marxism, or to 
CAMPUS32 TEAM. 

··:·-·::;:::;:;::·: 
SOCCER TOURNAMENT 
1) FIRST 32 TEAMS SUBMITTED TO THE NV A OFFICE WITH $10 ENTRY FEE ONLY 
2) OPEN TO STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
3) VARSITY PLAYERS ARE NOT ELIGIDLE 
4) INSURANCE FORMS MUST BE FILLED OliT 
5) DOUBLE ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT 
6) PLAyTO START MARCH 31 (DEPENDING ON THE WEATHER) 
IDEADLINE -MARCH 7 I 
birdhouse 1n your soul.~ 
American politics-and brief treatments of a fundamentalist theology within Catholicism it­self." 
O'Meara writes that his book "is more about Catholicism 
.than fundamentalism. It is nec­essary not simply 'because Catholics, in an age of change but also opportunity, can find fundamentalisms seductive, but because Catholicism in its ap­proach to Christian life, wor­ship, church and culture, is the polar opposite of every funda­mentalism, Christian or other." 

The World's Longest-Running Erotic Stage Musical Comedy 
"THE CHILDREN OF THE ORIGINAL AUDIENCES ARE NOW COMING TO SEE 'OH! CALCUTIA!' AND THEIR CHILDREN DOUBTLESS WILL TOO: 
ntoiE. 1986 
FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1990 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM $20.50-$15.50 RESERVED VISA/MC: 284-9190 
Direct from New York ­The Farewell Tour. 



()i.~! 
For mature audiences only 


page 6 
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1990 

Bush repeals final economic sanctions again~;t Panama 
Prospects for Peace in El Salvador 
Gladis Sibrian Representative of the FMLN/FDR Will 5peak on the latest developments in her people's struggle for democracy and human right5. 
Monday, March 5 
at 7:30 in the esc 

5pon5ored by: ODN, Student Government & the CSC 
*COMING SOON* 


Central America Week March J9-24 
Endara 
continued from page 1 
Most of the economic sanctions were removed in December. when U.S. forces invaded, over­threw military leader Manuel Antonio Noriega, and put Endara in office. Noriega awaits trial in Florida on federal drug-trafficking charges. 
Endara was widely recognized as the winner of last year's Panamanian elections, whkh Noriega annulled. 
Panama's economy has been battered by the sanctions and by fighting during the U.S. invasion. 
A crowd of supporters accompanied Endara on Thursday as he sat in the cathedral, two blocks from the presidential palace. He was surrounded by bodyguards, and several doctors were in attendance. 
Talking to reporters, Endara also called his fast part of Lent, saying it was an appropriate time for him to express "human solidarity" with his people. 
STEAKS M 



PRIME RIB ti_t:f 
SEAFOOD ~~~~ H2~ 
It is the second hunger strike by Endara, a portly politician of 53, in less than a year. En­dara went on the first fast on Sept. 19 to protest repression by Noriega's now-disbanded 
Defense  Forces.  That  fast  
lasted a few days.  
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS  dl>]  

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
F eaturillg Fridcry Bight seafood butteC cmd Sundcry bnmch 219-259-9925 

Hee-Haw! Happy 22nd ~~my Heimberg! 

How many shopp1ing days are left?? Love, The Gang 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Thursday lifted the last sanctions against Panama, imposod for its failure to cooperate in drug-fighting efforts, and then toured a maximum-security prison, say­ing "tough talk is simply not enough" in battling crime and narcotics. 
Bush, in a day-long series of appearances in Los Angeles, also held a fund-raising lun­cheon with Republican gover­nors and was to address the California Chamber of Com­merce at dinner. 
On Friday, Bush will fly to Palm Springs for a two-day summit with Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu to try to repair relations strained by trade tensions. 
Most of the economic sanc­tions against Panama were re­moved in December following the U.S. invasion and the top­pling of Manuel Antonio Nor­iega, who now awaits trial in Florida on federal drug traffik­ing charges. 
The final remaining sanction was a denial of low tariffs and fees on Panamanian imports. That was imposed in 1988 be­cause of a finding that Panama, under Noriega, was not coop­erating fully with the United States in battling drugs. 
Bush said the U.S.-backed government of Guillermo En­dara was "taking adequate steps" to prevent the sale and shipment of drugs and the ille­gal laundering of drug profits. 
"All sanctions have now been removed against Panama." said White House deputy press sec­retary Stephen Hart. 
Separately, Bush certified that 20 countries where nar­cotics are produced or trans­ported were cooperating with the United States to fight drugs. 
The certification is necnssary for them to be eligible to receive 
U.S. foreign assistance. The countries include Panama and Colombia. Bush said he was including Lebanon on the list as a matter of U.S. national interest. 

Bush said he had decided not to certify Afghanistan, Burma, Iran and Syria. 
On another foreign policy is­sue, Bush said he had sent a message to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua to lay down their arms in light of the defeat of the leftist government of Daniel Ortega. John Sununu, the White House chief of staff. said the message had been. sent through diplomatic channels. 
Bush, on the second day of .a four-day trip away from Wash­ington, spent the morning touring the North Los Angeles County Correctional Facility, a $134 million, high-tech jail built to house 2,064 inmates. It opens next week. 
The president said a tour like his, although brief, "does con­centrate the mind. It was long enough to bring anyone face to face with the reality of what in­stitutions like this represent." 
He said jails were "the ulti­mate proof of the community's determination to protect itself and serve justice." 
Noting that no federal money was used to build the jail, Bush said, 'That's a sign that your vibrant community ... knows that in the fight against crime and drugs, tough talk is simply not enough." 
"And if you're going to be tough on crime, you've got to be tough on the criminals," Bush said. 

Seabrook 
continued from page 1 
staff and several lower-level 
boards that the plant is safe 
and that evacuation plans 
would work. 
"I would be happy to live within two miles of this plant and I wouldn't worry about it at all," said NRC Chairman Kenneth Carr. 
However, Massachusetts At­torney General James Shannon said, "We will be in court in the next few days. . . . There has never been a licensing issue which has been so legally vul­nerable." 
Massachusetts officials along with New Hampshire anti-nu­clear groups have coordinated the Seabrook opposition. 
At the white-domed plant overlooking the Atlantic ocean, 75 protesters sang and chanted slogans, and 10 blocked the plant gate by sitting down in the driveway. When they re­fused to leave, they were ar­rested. Another Seabrook op­ponent was arrested when he posted a sign that read "Shame" over one posted by plant workers reading "License Approved!" 
................... 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERN~~TIONAL PEACE STUDIES 

Monday, March 5, 1990 
A CONVERSATION WITH 

Thomas Malone 
Former Secretary of the American Academy of Science and 

Rev. Don Conroy 
Director, North American Confe1rence on Religion and Ecology on 
11 GLC~BAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE .. 
12:00-1:00 p.m. Room 110 Law School 
Everyone Welcome 


Runyourown 







companyat16, 
We're looking for afew good college students and graduates who can fill the shoes ofaMarine Corps officer. That's apretty tall order. 
It means leading other Marines. Being responsible for their well being. But that's something no civilian job offers you at 26. 
Uyou think you're a real company man, see your ~·~·=­Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer for details. . Vi~ 1-800-MARINES. \..~.-'"-"' 
Friday, March 2, 1990 
The Observer 
APphoto 

An old woman waits to fill her empty canister with water in Beirut as construction workers repair a house blasted during an Intra-Christian confrontation between troops loyal to Gen. Michel Aoun and militiamen of Samir Geagea's forces. 
COME SEE ME SWEET SCOTlY P. WttEH TttE litiStt TAKE Ofi MISSOOitl YOO CiOTTfl BELIEVE! 
page 7 

Christians assaulted in Lebanon by Gen. Aoun 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) .,­
Gen. Michel Aoun's tanks 
pierced the defenses of the rival 
Christian militia in savage 
fighting Thursday in east 
Beirut as the showdown entered 
its second month. 
Police said at least 14 people were killed and 50 wounded in seven assaults by Aoun's Amer­ican-made M-48 tanks against the urban lines of Samir Geagea's Lebanese Forces mili­tia. 
By police count, the fight for control of the 310-square-mile Christian enclave has killed 708 people and wounded 1,984 since it broke out Jan. 30. 
A police spokesman reported minor progress by Aoun's tanks, which advanced over nine hours across the open ter­rain to the edge of the urban area of Nabaa, a pocket held by the Lebanese Forces. 
The advance shattered a 12­day lull that followed a cease­fire called by a neutral media­
tion committee. 
"The tanks are at the en­trances to the narrow alleys" of the densely populated low­income district, the spokesman said. 

He said it would be "extremely dangerous" to push the tanks into the slum-like dis­trict, where they would be easy targets for Geagea's experi­enced street fighters using ar­mor-piercing rocket-propelled grenade launchers. 
The advance stopped at 2 
p.m. after the captain com­manding the attack was killed, but the two sides maintained a fierce exchange of howitzer and mortar shells at the rate of about 40 rounds a minute, said the spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
He said Aoun's tanks had failed to advance along the slopes of Ashrafiyeh, the mili­tia's second stronghold in east Beirut. The neighborhood spills over the highest hill in the Le­banese capital. 
A dozen fires blazed out of control in Ashrafiyeh and Nabaa. Smoke billowed from the districts, and the fire de­partment said its engines were not able to leave their under­ground basement centers to combat the blaze due to the in­tensity of the clashes. 

Clarification 
In the Tuesday, February, 27, story on the Committee on Women at Notre Dame, tho name of the Co-Chair of the Faculty Senate Commit­tee on the Status of Women, Kathleen Biddick, associate professor of History, was omitted. 

page 8 The Observer 

fhe Observer/Colin McAteer 

Anew breed 
The Comedy Troupe from Eerie, Ind. visits Theodore's on Thursday, providing this rare, insightful por­trayal of womankind. 
Crack babies suffer for mothers' mistakes 
BOSTON (AP) When Joshua arrived at New England Medical Center, senior nurse Sharon Hill could have held him in her hand. lie was three months premature and weighed two pounds. And because of co­caine, he was suffering. 
The cocaine addiction was his mother's, but Joshua still pays for it after three months in the hospital. 
Cocaine pushed him into the world so early and ill-equipped that he was immediately hooked up to a ventilator and feeding tubes and had four cardiac monitor electrodes taped to his chest. 
Although babies with breath­ing tubes can't make any noise when they cry, Hill says, "Sometimes you can see an ex­pression that they are crying." 
Last year, about 10 percent of the cocaine babies born in Massachusetts died. Some who 


Strike 
continued from page 1 
$63 million, three-year offer ­says the latest union proposal would cost $272 million over three years. The company val­ued the union's original offer at $406 million. 
The 3-year-old company earned its first profit last year after being created in a"buyout of Phoenix-based Greyhound Corp.'s bus operations. 
Negotiations continued Thursday afternoon and will continue as long as possible, said company spokesman Ge­orge Gravley, describing the talks as "businesslike." 
Greyhound Executive Vice President P. Anthony Lannie, who is heading the company's negotiating committee, said, "The company has acted in good faith throughout the four months of bargaining and has always assumed the union was acting in good faith, too." 
xpress ress~ 
OF NOlANA NC~TEO 
II

IRESUMES TYPESET AND PRINTED I 
325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH EEND [219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 


ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR MEN__& WOMEN 
:~
u 
531 N. Michigan St. Ph ne 23 -7 

survived sufTered strokes or in­testinal failure when cocaine constricted their tiny arteries, but most of their problems re­sult from premature birth. 
Experts now are investigating the possibility that problems among "cocaine-exposed" ba­bies might not show up until years later. 
Cocaine might damage the in­fants' central nervous systems, but it's difficult to study their long-term prospects because researchers find it hard to sep­arate the effects of cocaine ex­posure in the womb from poor parenting, said Barry Zucker­man, director of development and behavioral pediatrics at Boston City Hospital. 
"We don't know what effect it has on the developing brain or how it may later affect behav­ior," Zuckerman said. 
A study by the National Asso­ciation for Prenatal Addiction 
Research and Education has 
shown it takes three months 
before cocaine babies weigh as 
much as drug-free infants and two years for head circumfer­ence, a measure of brain devel­opment, to match that of ba­bies not exposed to cocaine. 
"The most important thing ... is extreme prematurity, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, 15 weeks," said Benjamin Sachs, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital. "A baby that's 12 weeks pre­mature may remain in hospital three months and cost $100,000. That's a serious public health problem." 
Babies born with cocaine in their systems may alternately be lethargic and overstimulated or given to inconsolable crying, Sachs said. 

SUMMER IN UNIVERSITY CIRCLE 
Study at 

Humanities & S'lcial Sciences Engineering Mathematics & Science Management 
JUNE 5 to AUGUST I 

Tuition · $250.00 per credit hour 
For information . (216) 368-4310 University Registrar Room 223 · Pardee Hall Case Western Reserve University Cleveland, OH 44106 


Grad/Faculty/Staff 
0J0[d}Uf[DJITJ)~~ 

Roster minimum of12 
IDEADLINE -MARCH 7 I 
Friday, March 2, 1990 
Security lax on sabotagE3d plane 
LONDON (AP) -Nine months before the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, the airline aban­doned a key safety procedure at Frankfurt Airport requiring all checked baggage to be accom­panied by passengers, a London newspaper reported Thursday. 
The Independent said investi­gators now believe the relax­ation in security gave terrorists the opportunity to smuggle the bomb onto the plane in an unaccompanied suitcase with­out fear of detection. 
The newspaper said its in­formation was based on an in­ternal Pan Am memorandum. It said the memo was sent on March 28, 1988, to Pan Am's 
security staff in  London  and  
Frankfurt, West Germany.  
In  New  York,  a  Pan  Am  

spokesman confirmed the exis­tence of the memo and that the procedure concerning unac­companied luggage had indeed been changed. But he insisted Pan Am did so with the ap­proval of the FAA. 
Asked if Pan Am allowed unaccompanied bags on flights, the spokesman, Jeff Kriendler, said: "Only if the bag had been X-rayed, as per the approved FAA procedure." 
"We did not abandon or eliminate (a procedure), we changed a procedure with the verbal approval of the FAA," he said. 
Kriendler said approval had been given verbally by Hay Salazar, FAA's director of civil aviation security, at a March 1988 meeting with security heads of Pan Am and other air­lines. 
In Washington, FAA spokesman Bob Buckhorn said he did not know whether Salazar gave such approval, "but X-raying baggage is cer­tainly a security procedure that's acceptable." He said Salazar was out of town. 
All 259 people on board Flight 103 died when it ex­ploded over Lockerbie, Scot­land, on Dec. 21, 1988. 
~-------------------------------------~ ~
'
/ 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Quote of th«~ Day Writer 
To apply or receive additional information, contact Michelle Dall at 239-5303 by March 5. 

''-----------------------------------_// 

Sunday ~\~~arch 4th at 11:00 am in Zah1m Hall 

~-~----------------~--------­
Friday, March 2, 1990 The Observer 

APphoto

Aquino feels secure 
Filipino President Corazon Aquino stands at attention as tanks of the Presidential Security Group roll past the grandstand in the traditional pass-in-review on the occasion of the PSG's fourth anniversary 
celebration at their headquarters in Manila. 



SOVIET UNION 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 
Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
HEYJEN 

COYNE! 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR BEHEMOTH ONE. NICEABW'S! 
.iYYI/E-

Meg, Christy, Cristin, Jules, Aggie, Peppy, and Deb 
THE WHARF INTRODUCES 




AWine'r ofa Deal 
Wine, Rose 
and a 

Complete Dinner for Two 
INCLUDING. A select Bottle ofWine (Must be 21 years of age.) 
· A Longstem Rose for your Sweethea Complete Dinner for Two with soup or. salad bar, run of the ~~~~~* menu: including Uve Maine Lobster, and choice of dessen. 

A Sweetheart ofa Deal 
Ont!44.95 



THE WHARF 
page 9 
U.S. says Mexico gave money to elect Ortega 
Chamorro 
continued from page 1 
takes office for a six-year term. 
"It will be an exploratory mission to have an initial pic­ture of what's needed, which we will combine with offers for aid already arriving from Western Europe and Latin American countries," Mayorga told re­porters. 
He said his team will visit Washington and New York for talks with World Bank, Inter­American Development Bank and International Monetary Fund officials. 
Although the leftist Sandin­istas agreed to give up power to Chamorro and her United National Opposition alliance, they have presented tough de­mands as transition teams meet to discuss terms. 
The Sandinistas want the economic structure they set up left alone; UNO wants to decen­tralize the economy, privatize WASHINGTON (AP)-Mexico 


offered upwards of $11 million 
in covert assistance to the 
campaign of Nicaraguan 
President Daniel Ortega, far 
above the acknowledged U.S. 
donations to the victorious op­
position coalition, U.S. officials 
said Thursday. 
When asked by U.S. officials 
about the alleged contribution, 
Mexican officials acknowledged 
that donations had been made 
but that the American figure 
was highly exaggerated, the 
sources said. 
Under the laws governing last Sunday's Nicaraguan election, foreign contributions were re­quired to have been reported to the Supreme Electoral Council. Half of the cash contributions were to have been shared with the council. 
The U.S. contribution to the campaign of President-elect Vi­oleta Chamorro was about $3.3. million. More than $5 million in additional funds were provided for non-partisan ac-t;vities, such as registration and poll watching. 
Efforts to reach. the Mexican Embassy on Thursday for 
state enterprises and free the marketplace. 
The Sandinistas also want the military structure left intact, especially if the U.S.-supported Contra guerrillas don't dis­
band; UNO wants to depoliti­cize the military and reduce. its size. 
Both sides want the Contras to disband immediately, but Contra leaders say not until Chamorro is inaugurated. 
Ortega has insisted on keep­ing the draft, where soldiers get leftist political indoctrina­tion alongside military training. Chamorro wants "children to go back to school" and the government to stop "making a soldier of every child." 
Widespread desertions, as reported on Thursday, could undermine the Sandinista posi­tion and the authority of De­
fense Minister  Humberto  
Ortega,  Daniel  Ortega's  
brother.  

Juan Carlos Medina, 18, said Thursday that 40 of 60 young 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by Friday, March 2 to Colleen Cronin. For further information, contact Colleen Cronin at 239-5303. 

comment were unsuccessful but Nicaraguan Vice President Ser­gio Ramirez denied the U.S. al­legation when asked about it by the Los Angeles Times. 
Ramirez said the Sandinistas reported all donations received. The State Department said press accounts indicated that foreign contributions acknowl­
edged by the Sandinistas  to­ 
taled $300,000.  
According  to  Ramirez,  no  

funds were received from the Mexican government or the ruling PRI party. The informa­tion obtained by U.S. officials indicated the contributions came from the PRI. The initial report of the donation ap­peared in Newsday. 
While expressing irritation over the Mexican contribution, the officials said it was not clear whether President Carlos Salinas de Gortari was aware of it. 
The purported donation, which included cash, T -shirts, posters and other items, was consistent with the support Mexico historically has pro­vided to the Sandinista gov­ernment. 
men in his Sandinista air force unit, posted at the main air base at Managua's interna­

tional  airport,  deserted  this  
week.  
He said,  "They  took  our  

weapons away on Monday and didn't give them back. Maybe they didn't trust us." 
"They gave me an unsigned weekend pass. I changed into my (civilian) clothes and just walked off base," Medina went on. "Nobody asked me any questions. But I'm not going back." 
Official spokesmen could not be reached for comment, but one military source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that President Ortega had ordered the military not to stop draftees from leaving. 
Medina said he has 11 months to go before completing the two-year compulsory mili­tary service for all boys age 16. 
"I left because Dona Violeta is going to do away with the service. So, why wait?" he said. 
Maria Antonieta Mendoza said her grandson, 17 -year-old Jose Manuel Nunez Lopez, de­serted from his Sandinista Peo­ple's Army unit in San Nicolas, near the northern city of EstelL 
"He just showed up here last night with nine other boys from his unit," said Mendoza. "They 

had been hitchhiking all day. I almost died. I told him, what if they come and kill you?" 
Mendoza, who said she had raised Nunez since infancy, let him sleep the night, then early Thursday sent him into hiding with friends. He has six months to finish his military service and will turn 18 this month. 
"They were treating those boys so badly, making them eat only spaghetti for two weeks and digging tunnels," she said. 
She said he told her of other desertions in northern Nicaragua, a battle area with the Contras. 


Correction 
The lecture on "Peace Prospects for El Salvador" will l:ie held in the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30p.m. Monday, March 5. The date of the lecture was inaccu­rately reported in the Mon­day (Feb. 26) Observer. 



Viewpoint 
Friday, March 2, 1990
a e 10 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 {219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg1s Cocc1a  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Mat1hew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  ....Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  ..Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager .......... Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Bias•  Systems Mgr  ...Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Eric Ba1ley  OTS Director .  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Chnstme G1ll  Controller  . .Anne Lindner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther InStitutiOn The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of the majority of the follow1ng. Editor·1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, let1ers, and the lns1de Column present the views of the" authors. Column space is available to all members of the coinmumty and the free express1on ot varying opimons on campus, through letters, IS encouraged 
ND family forgets to support its own 
Dear Editor: 
In 1971 we packed all our toys and headed West from New York. We found our new home in South Bend, Indiana. Dad's dream finally came true-he would be the Head Basketball Coach at Notre Dame. 
We were all too young to re­ally remember his first few sea­sons at the A.C.C. Dwight Clay's shot to break U.C.L.A.'s 88 game winning streak was the first of many memorable upsets. We even got to celebrate 
L..----~-----.......--­
in the locker room after the ful game plan.) We find our­game. selves clapping alone and putting our arms around our 
Through grade school, high Mother, who tries to justify the school, the many cold winters, stupidity of the boos. Dad's players all coming and We have been to many games graduating, Dad's winning in the last 19 years at home basketball seasons, and the and on the road. We can under­trips to the NCAA tournament, stand why there wouldn't be we made South Bend our home. loud cheers for Dad at the op­For more than 18 years the ponent's home, but at our Phelps family has made Notre home? Maybe there is too much Dame its home. All of the emphasis on winning, don't you people in the town and school think? Imagine being at the have always been a part of our place you call home, the place "family". Sure there have been where no matter how bad some frustrating times with things get you can always turn Dad losing games or Dad not to, and then your "friends" and being home because of his busy "family" turn against you. schedule, but South Bend and Notre Dame have always been Dad doesn't even know we our home. are writing this, and honestly 
we have never discussed the 
Now one of us is a 1987 boos. We are not asking for Notre Dame graduate, one will sympathy; rather, those of you graduate from Toledo who aren't clapping for your University next March, and the head basketball coach, ask youngest will graduate from yourselves if you realize what Notre Dame next May. you are really doing. We are Unfortunately, we all can't get sure you don't, but if you do, home to see all of the basket­maybe Notre Dame's family ball games. But this season, theme is a false realization, and Dad's 19th season, we feel we the only home the Phelps family need to be here more than ever. really has is just the five of us. Why? Because of the unsup­porting boos during the intro­
Karen, Rick
ductions. {Even after the Irish 
and Jennifer Phelps
upset Syracuse under a master-
Feb. 26, 1990 
DOONESBURY 

Dear Editor: fluke accident, Jamere dribbled Digger Phelps. Digger didn't 
We are writing in response to the ball off of Keith Robinson's miss key free throws that could the most recent "Digger­leg, and a Georgia Tech player have won the game in Bashing" that has occurred at picked up the loose ball and regulation. Digger didn't the games and in general scored. That too was somehow commit numerous turnovers around campus_ The latest a result of Digger's poor that led to lay-ups for Georgia incident being the relentless coaching as the students Tech in the overtime period. Yet booing and jeering at the expressed their displeasure the howling of "Digger, you s­Georgia Tech game. even louder. -" and "Fire Digger," was the 
It has gotten to the point greatest of these miscues. where every mistake or miscue People should realize that Here at Notre Dame, we're by anyone is somehow the fault Georgia Tech is an excellent spoiled by a football team that of Digger Phelps. One of the basketball team, capable of plays near perfection every most blatant examples making a run like that against year. Was Lou Holtz blamed for occurred during a 20 to 2 run any team. As a team they had the letdowns such as the in the second half by Georgia shot 29% in the first half, and infamous third and 43 Tech. After ND had taken a 50-were bound to heat up. Another disaster? Players and coaches 37 lead, mental mistakes, example of the fans' are human and will always turnovers, and hot shooting by unwarranted disapproval was a make mistakes. It seems as if Georgia Tech resulted in a 57-cry for man-to-man defense all mistakes, by the players as 52 deficit. Throughout the after a three-point shot by well as Digger, are accounted stretch, students hollered at Georgia Tech's Kenny to Coach Phelps. Why is there Digger as if he was personally Anderson. Georgia Tech is one never any credit given to Digger responsible for each error. of the most potent offensive when things go well? For Everyone began pleading for a teams in the country, with three example, he designed a zone time-out {including ourselves). players averaging over 20 defense which held a potent When the score reached 50-45, points a game. Going man-to­Syracuse team to less than 70 the Georgia Tech coach called a man against them would have points in their home floor, the time-out, in effect saving a been suicidal. Who should imposing Carrier Dome. Digger time-out for ND. The break did Digger assign his best defensive Phelps may not be the greatest nothing to stop the momentum player to cover? No matter how college coach ever, or even a of Georgia Tech. Again people we were matched up, at least very good college coach. but he sereamed for a time-out, one of those players would have certainly hasn't earned the almost as if they'd forgotten exploded. harsh criticisms for mistakes that one had been called over which he has no control. already. When it became 55-52 Even after a great effort in in favor of Georgia Tech, almost knocking off the sixth­Steve Walsh Digger motioned for guard ranked team in college Mike Juszynski Jamere Jackson to call time-out basketball, the reasons for the Flanner Hall after crossing half court. In a loss were placed squarely on Feb. 24, 1990 
Coffeehouse project gets off the ground successfully 
Dear Editor: managers, we have been lucky committee: Anne Hyan, Mike 
I would like to thank The to have Mrs. Katherine Penman, Lisa deBoer, Jill Jones, Observer for the coverage of Fredman and her husband, Paul Froning, Alex Nunez, and the Coffeehouse in Grace Hall, Professor Stephen Fredman, Karl Kronenberger, without {Feb. 28). We are all very ex­who have been, in many ways, their creative energy and en­cited about the project and be­the real 'brains' behind the thusiasm we could not have lieve that it addresses an im­brainchild. Besides them. I carried the project through. portant need in our campus. would like to take this oppor-We look forward to seeing 
As you mention in you article, tunity to thank also the many you at the Coffeehouse. there are many people that people that helped us in one Victor J. Krebs have put in countless hours of way or another, to get it all to-Assistant Rector work and energy into the pro­gether. In particular, the Grace Hall ject. Apart from our dedicated Coffeehouse's programming Feb. 28, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF' THE DAY 
TH/5 15 THC. 1?/VO/?LE OF THC.
I 6(71TA SIIY 70 '1rJU Pea­

~,Of 'THe CENTIJI(Y! TH/5
PI,&, I CANT8Cll81& ALL 

{}IVOf?a 15 50 816 I 60T65
7H/3 P/?&55 7H~ THING5 

PWPte AT A P.!<.. FII?M IAJORJ<.­
A77RACTEI)..._ ___, /N6 NIGHTANO I?AY 70G/3TOlJT MY'31/:J&Of 7H/3 H/3U, I'V/3 6f.JT NIN6 P/30Pt..&­SPffOAU5/73, TH/3 "TTPS IN 7H(;IR FIW-JUt;ifHANI?UN6 QUts­"1'06 A80UTMY INF!I?U.I1Y.' 

ANOIA/HAT 
AJOB 
7H8Y'VI3 tXJNe, 
5/R. 
/ 

'To be able to use leisure intelligently will be the last product of an intelligent civilization.' 
Bertrand Russell 


Viewpoint

Friday, March 2, 1990 page 11 
University community neglects grad students 

By Maire Mullins 
This is my fifth year as a graduate student at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. I am writing this column because I feel that graduate students are often treated as if they are invisible on this campus. If one happens to be female, a minority, or a foreign student as well, one becomes doubly invisible. Yet, it is the graduate programs at schools like Berkeley, Yale, and Harvard which give these schools strong academic repu­tations. Why not at Notre Dame? 
Is the undergraduate teach­ing tradition instilled here so deeply that the needs of the graduate student population become shunted and ignored? Are graduate students re­spected and treated within their departments as potential future colleagues? Is the curriculum balanced to meet the needs of the students who must master generalist as well as specialist material? Or does the curricu­lum, rather, reflect the particu­lar (and often eccentric) inter­ests of professors? These are just a few of the questions which must be addressed and redressed if Notre Dame wishes to improve the quality of life of its graduate students. 
Support groups for female, minority, and foreign graduate students should be established. Each of these groups must struggle with issues which oth­ers know nothing about. Sexual harassment, prejudice, and lan­guage barriers are only a few of these concerns. 
The women's resource com­mittee of the graduate student union is perhaps the most active graduate committee on this campus; yet, how many of you have heard of it? Membership is not limited to female graduate students. All are welcome. This committee sponsors events regularly such as brown bag discussions, lec­tures, and poetry readings. 
The graduate student popula­tion is less homogeneous than 
Administration overlooks Duarte's unjust record 
Dear Editor: 
I was shocked when I read Monica Yant's article. "Duarte dies, Hesburgh mourns loss" (The Observer, Feb. 26). While I respect the friendship Father Hesburgh and Jose Napoleon Duarte may have shared, I see no excuse for the one-sided, misleading story that was print­ed. Ms. Yant totally disregarded a number of facts pertaining to Duarte and his regime in El Salvador. 
It saddens me that a univer­sity built entirely upon Christian values could shut its eyes to the brutal human rights violations committed by Duarte's government. I would expect such bias from the Reagan-Bush administrations, but not from Father Hesburgh or Notre Dame. 
Father Hesburgh must have a different definition of justice if he believes Mr. Duarte to have been "an extraordinarily coura­geous man," working all his life for that end. In the early 1980's, El Salvador had the lowest average per capita in­come in Latin America, despite being one of the greatest recip­ients of U.S. foreign aid. While Duarte was president, no less than fifty percent of its people were either unemployed or un­deremployed. This must have been reassuring to Father Hesburgh who hoped that "there will always be a poor student from San Salvador at Notre Dame." Duarte's "fight for political justice" consisted of an agrarian land reform plan that was never carried out, leaving a number of peasant cooperators and U.S. land reform agents murdered by the military. 
The article reports that nego­tiations with leftist rebels failed because Mr. Duarte "did not budge from the demand that they lay down their arms and join the political process." It fails to mention, however, that in 1982. the democratic Latin American governments, the Socialist International, and a number of church groups sought negotiations to end the civil war which, although ac­cepted by the opposition group, were condemned by both the Reagan and Duarte administra­tions. 
What is most appalling is the article's omission of the atro­cious human rights violations that took place under Duarte's government. In 1981 alone, it is estimated that almost 12,000 non-combatant civilians were killed. Amnesty International published a report in 1984 on the state of affairs in El Salvador. It states: "The July 1983 Amnesty International delegation heard testimony of people who have witnessed the seizure of individuals who were never acknowledged to be in custody and were later found dead. It also recorded state­ments by others who said they witnessed summary execution of captive non-combatant civil­ians by government forces." 
According to this report, "the Salvadoran security forces use the cover of civil warfare to carry out large-scale killings of young people,. peasants and others not shown to be involved in guerilla activities." While one may try to argue that Duarte was not directly responsible for such actions, it cannot be dis­puted that there existed a "lack of political will on the part of the authorities to investigate the many thousands of unre­solved violent deaths." 
Jose Napoleon Duarte was most certainly not a hero. He had little regard for the lives of the people he was supposed to protect. I am proud that we can provide an opportunity for a student in El Salvador, but I am ashamed that we have estab­lished a scholarship in this man's honor. I will not mourn for his death. I will, however, mourn for Father Hesburgh and this University. We have turned a blind eye to Duarte's obvious wrongs simply because he had earned a degree from Notre Dame. 
Kathleen Salvaty Walsh Hall Feb. 28, 1990 
the undergraduate population. The spiritual needs of many graduate students, therefore, must often be met off-campus. Inter-faith meetings open to both graduate and undergrad­uate students should be one of the priorities of the campus ministry. 
Married graduate students, too, have needs which often­times go unrecognized. This is the year of the family at Notre Dame. Why not back up senti­ment with reality, and establish an affordable day-care facility on campus? This facility could even by run by students willing to volunteer their time to help other students. 
Graduate housing also needs attention. The male graduate students live in a ramshackle former seminary perched on the edge of St. Joseph lake. This dormitory is desperately in need of renovation. The female graduate students live in the O'Hara Grace town houses, on Bulla Road. Security is a con­stant concern for many of these residents. During my three years at O'Hara Grace, two women were attacked. One of these incidents was an at­tempted rape. A community of 140 women in an area which is relatively isolated represents a security risk. Why not integrate a few male residences? Surely, graduate students can be con­sidered responsible for their sexual behavior. 

'The male graduate stu­dents live in a ramshackle former seminary perched on the edge of St. Joseph lake.' 
Both male and female under­graduate students should be made aware of the existence of the graduate population here at Notre Dame. We, too, have something to offer: our experi­ence, our diverse backgrounds, our interest in our respective fields. Whether or not these undergraduates wish to pursue graduate studies, our presence on this campus affects their education. Graduate students teach many of the undergradu­ates, in the classroom, in dis­cussion groups, and in the lab­oratory. Our interaction with the faculty and our input indi­rectly improves the quality of undergraduate instruction at Notre Dame. 
Nevertheless, most graduate students still feel isolated. Per-. haps this isolation comes from the nature of our work, which is strongly oriented in research. However, greater recognition from the administration, from the faculty, and from the un­dergraduate population would perhaps alleviate the alienation many feel. Recognition, com­munication, support groups, better housing, a day-care cen­ter, and respect: these are the keys to an improved graduate life at Notre Dame. Every one of us can help contribute. 
Maire Mullins is a graduate student in English. 
LETTERS 


Conservative lexicon ignores patriotism of liberals 
Dear Editor: 
It's hard to know what to make of Rick Acker's column, "A Lexicon for Conservatives," (The Observer, Feb. 27). If Mr. Acker is attempting to be funny in what he writes, then he has an offensive and inappropriate sense of humor. And if Mr. Acker is serious about what he writes, that is even more fright­ening. 
Before Christmas, when Mr. Acker shared his "Lexicon for Liberals" with the Notre Dame community, I was upset by the article and vowed that I would write a response. I wanted to respond with an equally clever dictionary for conservatives which would highlight some of the more glaring inconsisten­cies in Mr. Acker's article and in conservatism in general. I even­tually decided not to write that letter because of the use­lessness of the sweeping gener­alizations that are necessarily inherent in that brand of politi­cal dialogue. 

So you can imagine my dis­may when I opened by The Observer to the Viewpoint page and read Mr. Acker's column. Mr. Acker has again shared with us a perspective on the American political spectrum that is about as insightful as a cow's. 
I respect Mr. Acker's right to his view of things, but this time they can't pass without a re­sponse. 
The suggestion that conser­vatives somehow have a lock on patriotism in America is so ob­viously untrue that it verges on being an intentional distortion on Mr. Acker's part. Non-con­servatives, (liberals, and yes even moderates) know that there is more than one way to believe in America. The flag burning issue is a good exam­ple. While I know I risk losing the sympathy of a lot of readers with this next statement, believe it or not, many people who support the Supreme Court decision do so because they be­lieve strongly in America and the incomparable freedoms that it offers. 
Conservatism isn't trendy. The snippets of ideas that Mr. Acker presents in his article are for the most part echoes of a disturbing era that had its day in the sun and has thankfully passed. Most of the prevalent ideas in the political arena today are the heart of what lib­eralism has been talking about for years, and they have simply been adopted by a clever, mod­erat.e politician who realized that the road to the White House was to give at least lip service to the things that most people really care about: solid liberal, patriotic issues like housing, the environment and education. 
Jim Ferguson 
First Year Law Student 
Feb. 27, 1990 
Big business contract threatens NO's moral character 
Dear Editor: 
I have had the opportunity to read your newspaper on a fair­ly regular basis for the last two years and have been quite impressed with the quality of the articles and editorials. With that background I am writing to express some disappointment in a recent Observer editorial concerning the football televi­sion contract (The Observer, Feb. 22). 
In defending the school's de­cision to enter into a separate contract with NBC, The Observer expressed a willing­ness to accept the idea that the only thing that matters in a transaction is a signed piece of paper and that any impressions that may have been created by activities prior to the signing of the contract simply don't count. That disturbs me because, while there may be no legal obligations until a contract is signed, there are ethical and moral norms that call for hon­oring reasonable expectations created by one's actions. 

If in fact Father Beauchamp helped negotiate the CFA deal, as the article states, isn't there some obligation on the part of the University to accept the results of that negotiation, or at least to tell the people in advance that it does not intend to be a part of the final arrangement? I did not see any recognition of that point in the editorial. 
I spent a delightful year on campus last year as a visiting professor and was tremen­dously impressed with the high moral tone at Notre Dame. I fear the pressure of the "big business aspect" of football, as illustrated by the NBC contract and· your editorial response, threatens that atmosphere. 
Peter W Salsich, Jr. '59 Professor ofLaw Saint Louis University Feb. 23, 1990 

--------------~--­
CK 
A 
to a c 
Almaden White Barberra 

 MUSIC The Fabulous Starlettes, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Reggae band, Alumni-Senior Club, 9 p.m. Corvallis Calling, McCormick's, 1 0 p.m.  

 MUSIC The Fabulous Starlettes, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Misfits In Disguise, comedy group, Alumni-Senior Club ,10 p.m. Boathouse Blues, McCormick's, 10 p.m. St. Paul and The Martyrs, Club 23  

 NOTRE DAME Friday "Ghostbusters II," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Vampire's Kiss," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. Saturday "Dangerous Liaisons," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Vampire's Kiss," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Born on the Fourth of July," 7 and 9:50 p.m. "Driving Miss Daisy," 7:40 and 9:40p.m. "Nightbreed," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Enemies, A Love Story," 7:15 and 9:35p.m. "My Left Foot," 7:15 and 9:15p.m. "Madhouse," 7 and 9 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Glory," 7:00 and 9:50p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:40 p.m. "Men Don't leave," 7:15 and 10 p.m. FORUM "Roger & Me," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Hard To Kill," 7:45 and 9:45p.m. "Stella," 7 and 9:20p.m. TOWN AND COUNTRY "The War of the Roses", 7:15 and 9:45p.m. "The Hunt For Red October," 7 and 9:45p.m. "Henry V," 5:30 and 8:30 p.m. 100 CENTER "Look Who's Talking," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Back To The Future II," 7 and 9:15 p.m, SCOTTSDALE "Madhouse," 7:45 and 9:45p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:30p.m.  

Fetzer Gewurztraminer 1988 
California, 750ml, 10.2% ale., $4.79 
Franzia White Grenache 
Taste 17S 2.6 
Overall~~ 2.2 
IW, · ~•., .1 · 11--c::-.-=.==~51 
Color: "Like Cherry 7-Up," "Light and waxy," "Nothing 
natural," "Good bottle," "Carmel," "Orange Life-Savers." Smell: "En Jolie," "Perfumy," "Winey and confining,!" "Flowery," "Smelling salts," "Alcoholie," "Jumpy." 
Taste: "Non-existent," "Too sweet," "It's stemmy and bold," "What taste?" "The kind of wine that doesn't want a relationship." "Berry delicious." 
Overall: "Bland," "Great bottle, fair taste," "Am I drinking perfume? No bubbles, no fun." "Ick!" "Twist that cap!" "Oh, grow up." "Ready to party." 
Taste 117: 3_2 
~verall~~l! .lJ 
Color: "Pink as a baby's bottom," "It reminds me of warm bunny rabbits," "Prostitute pink," "Salon Selectives hairspray," "Peachy," "A pal~e blush." 
Smell: "Reserved," "Nutty pomegranate with a lime twist," "Appley," "Like candles." 
Taste: "Spicy, robust with a full body," "Sweet," "A sweet little wine, if it were a woman I'd ask her out." "Cool, fruity, nippy as a junebug." 
Overall: "A juicy, racy lover," "Awfully sweet," "Would make you run naked down North Quad." "Overall a seductive winner," "A fruit-juicy treat for all ages!" 
1 
Taste 777~ 3_2 Overall~:i-~ 
Color: "A surreal tone," "Mazola," "Anther," "Bubbly like Perrier," "Smokey," "Oh, so light and oily." 
Smell: "Musty, chemical, overtly tart," "Herbaceous," "Gluey," "Unassuming woodsy." 
Taste: "Carbonated," "Elegantly understated," "It teases me," "A rejuvenating and uplifting experience." 
Overall: "Mostly a social, party-life wine." "A festive wine, it seduces me and I oblige." "Has an adolescent vivacity," "Vibrant," "It sneaks up on you." 
Fetzer Sundial-Chardonnay 1989 
California, 750ml, 12.6% ale., $6.99 
Taste iJ  1.7  Color: '"Lemon-sugar' Clinique lipstick without the sparkle," "Like bad cold medicine," "Light and Wheat Thinny," "Foggy dandelion."  
Smell: "Decidedly unusual," "Woody," "Frigid," "NYC subway," High school," "Acidic."  
Overall~--­ li1ii.s  Taste: "Nasty," "Throbbing," "Fleshy, I want it." "A back-alley delight," "You need a sense of humor." Overall: "Taste evaporates as fast as the basketball  

team's 10-point lead," "Yee-haw." 
Fontana Candida Frascati 1988 
R 
omanceis Dinner 
menu co 
elaborate 
a rare 
on a budge 
To impress a date, m Light for Hed, White and 
As a student ""''""'" come to the aid of economical means of other." It was a rough to do it for the benefit of Mary's community. 
Before we could u project, we needed 
We ventured to City­Grape and Edison, and Rousseve. We had only price had to be under 
. ' 

Italy, 750ml, 12.0% ale., $5.99 
Taste 77: 2.1 
Overall~ \P•~c••lii21ii.2 
~~ 

Color: "Its bubbles suggest levity. This is, not a serious wine." "Clear, lightly tinged with yellow." 
Smell: "Lightly peppery and veggy," "Little smell," "Earthy barnyard smell," "ND water," "Bodacious." 
Taste: "Very dry," "Medicinally hippy," "Bone dry." 
Overall: "Drink this wine before an SYR." "Ouch! Bite me ... it did, it did." "Slippery and dry," "Sincere but unwelcomely tart-immature and somewhat too ambitious." 
California, 51, 9.0% ale., $8.99 
Color: "A friendly pink," "Pretty," "Pale mauve linen," "Cherry 7-Up," "Pink bubble bath." 
Smell: "Like a freshman dorm party," "None," "Blah," "K-Mart bathroom," "Light and peary." 
Taste 77~ 2.9 
Taste: "A bit demure," "It presses me wlith fear," "Innocent, shy, virginal, like a blushing bride," "Peachy and smacky," "Juicy," "Fruity," "Like a wine cooler." With thanks to our 
Gallagher,Joe Moody,
Overall~~:i-~ 
Overall: "Pretty good for a box with a spigot," 
O'Brien, Rachel 
"Recurring taste," "Racy and sexy, a Fren.ch Riviera 
And special thanks to:
snack wine," "Not very good but the color was cool." 
Wide Liquors. 

APWI 

handy-dandy guide heap, romantic evening 

La Vielle Ferme Cotes du Luberon 1988 
France, 750ml, 12.0% ale., $5.99 
Taste 7:  _  1.1  Color: "I can see my smile in it," "Like a urine sample," "Light and fleshy," "Ught maize." Smell: "Musty," "Fruity and sweet," "Very smoky," "Pickled sweetness."  
Taste: "Uke a chip off the old farm," "Sour and tart,"  
Overall; ~c 1.2 •••••J-~·-G·~....~'-=·£.,:...~··1  "Yeasty and pungent," "Very powerful and unbalanced," "An evil wine, wicked and bitter," "I'm a bad, bad wine." Overall: "The rising aroma reaches the sinuses as the bold taste and redneck personality attacks the unwitting and defenseless tastebuds and leaves them lying,  

battered and violated in the throat." 
Gundlach Bundschu Sonoma Red Wine 
California, 750ml, 13.1% ale., $4.99 
Color: "Celebrative," "Darty purple,'' "Powerfully rich," 
"Scarlett O'Hara." 
Taste !~ 1.2 

Smell: "Chern lab smell," "Like church wine," "Smelly." 
Taste: "Puts hair on your chest," "Azar's at 3 a.m." "Ash and tar," "Volatile," "Old, expired grape juice," "It burns." 

Overall: "It goes down like Everclear on fire," "Low on
1.1 

the evolutionary scale of wines," "Tastes like the subway smells," "Like being in the pit of the inferno with the 'sowers of malice and discord.' " 
La Vielle Ferme Cotes du Ventoux 1988 
ensive. vo at a restaurant whose of entrees more 1 pizza and hamburgers is nee for college students 
;tudents substitute Bud ·ue. 
.ve felt it was our duty to 1nts and lind an ssing a "significant nment. but someone had ~ Notre Dame/Saint 
:e such an important 
the aid of a professional. lquor, on the corner of te to owner Daniel criterion for our wines: le result was a selection 
Observer photos/Andrew McCloskey of wines, from red to white, and from a variety of countries. 
Our eighteen-member panel randomly sampled, with the chilled whites first, and the reds last. (And we even let the red wine breathe.) 
Aided by "The Official Guide to Wine Snobbery," and a host of other books, our panel of experts soon learned the unwritten rules of wine tasting: bouquet means smell, excessive desire to experience bouquet is not only gauche, but can also result in a noseful of Chardonnay, and uncorking the bottle is more challenging when the corkscrew breaks (making boxes and caps a plus-and yes, we did get wine with corks for under $10.) 
Not all of our judges had the most refined tastes; in other words, they liked the box wine. Keep in mind that these are the impressions of college students, not of advanced wine conniseurs. 
We hope that the sacrifices we've made help the members of the public the next time they're searching for a lot of romance for a little cash. 
The Rating Scale 

Vmeyards, size, alcoholic content and price are listed for all the wines tasted. All wines and prices are from City-Wide Liquor. The wines were rated on a scale from one to five, with five as the highest. Each wine was rated in three specific categories: color/clarity, smell, and taste. Then, an overall rating was given to each wine, taking iiito account each of the different categories and the price. Judges were asked to give comments for each category, number values for the taste and the overall rating. All of the comments were then reviewed and edited, and the most insightful comments have been printed. 
Hogue Cellars Fume Blanc 1988 
Washington State, 750ml, 12.0% ale., $6.99 
Color: "Platinum blonde," "Light and lemony." 
Taste 77~ 2.3 

Smell: "Relatively inoffensive," "Herbacious," "Grassy." 
Taste: "It says, 'know me, love me, enjoy me.' " "Snappy yet mature." 
Overall~-~~ ..... :~ 

Overall: "Should we drink it or gargle it?" "Could --­complement seafood," "Uppity," "Tart," "Kind of sweet." 
Kayser Zeller Schwarze Katz 1987 
Germany, 750ml, 9.0% ale., $5.99 
Taste 777~ 3_8 Overan;.l-1-~ 

Color: "Rosy yellow," "White," "Clear and sparkling," 
"Pale yellow," "Vinegar and oil look." Smell: "Bodacious," "I have two faces, watch out for me." "Silky, sweet," "Bleach," "Odd, lively and subtle." 
Taste: "Smooth and drying," "Fresh and alive, has all the perkiness of The New Kids on the Block," "Discreetly silly with no pungent aftertaste." 
Overall: "This wine is the perfect date, but not deep enough for a true relationship, " "As honest as Ollie North," "A wine that tells you that existentialism is a lie," "Bravo," "It says 'I just want to have fun,' " "Lovely bottle." 
France, 750ml, 12.5% ale., $5.99 
Color: "Wouldn't swim in it," "Like 'Grape Stain' Clinique lipstick," "Welch's grape juice," "Stained red," "Blood."
Taste!~ 1.4 Smell: "Vinegary and over-ripened," "The inside of someone's penny loafers," "Rotten flesh." 
Taste: "It must have a touch of rubbing alcohol," "Band-Aids," "Like the butt of a gun," "Bitter." 
Overaii~)IMillii~i'-lli1iii.6 

Overall: "Like Janet would say -NASTY," "All the subtlety of a sledgehammer," "It's nasty, ukkk," "Like wine at senior prom," "Pain-inflicting." 
Ravenswood Zinfandel 1987 
California, 51, 13.5% ale., $7.99 
Color: "Virile," "Hi-C grape drink," "Real dark," "Looks expensive." 
Taste!!~ 2.3 

Smell: "Totally grape juice man," "Oh, so snippy," "Royal, red smell." 
Taste: "Woody tasting with a kick," "Sharp aftertaste." 

Overall: "It's not just a wine, it's a way of life," "A prostitute of a wine," "Up-licking," "Highest proof: a must for parties." 

shed panelists: Chris Donnelly, John Blasi, Alison Cocks, Sara Marley, Matt 
es, Pete Loftus, Kate Graham, Monica Yant, Missy Irving, Kristi Galli, John 
I Pearson, Paige Smoron, Andrew McCloskey, Tim O'Keefe, Michael Owen. 
riott Foodservices for the catering equipment, the South Bend Tribune, and City­

Accent
page 14 

Suppose Jesus Christ was really a nebbish. • • 

The Jewish word "nebbish" means "a nobody"-not a run-of-the-mill nobody, but a spec­tacuiar nobody. Nebbishes are such outstanding nobodies, my Jewish friends say, that when a nebbish enters the room, it feels as though somebody just left. 
What if Jesus had been a nebbish? He wasn't a nebbish, of course. According to the New Testament, He was a 24­carat gold SOMEBODY, who was praised to the skies by the Sky Chief who created heaven and earth. 
But what would have hap­pened if His contemporaries had written Him off as the lack-luster son of Joseph the carpenter who make a fool of himself as a maverick rabbi? What if He had been buried in some potter's field and forgot­ten like those nameless money­changers in the Temple He picked a fight with? 
If Jesus had been a nebbish, there would have been no Crusades, no Spanish Inquisition, and probably no Holocaust. History would un­doubtedly have seen just as much bloodshed. Human beings would still have had wars to fight in defense of their temples and as part of the worship of their gods. But without Christ, there could never be the dreaded anti-Christ, whom the fundamentalists call the Pope of Rome. There would have been no Catholic Church, Protestant Reformation or schism over "filioque" between East and West. 
Maybe Europeans would have become Moslem, and instead of a cathedral, we would have a great mosque at Chartres. Instead of a convent, maybe we would have a harem at Mayerling in the Vienna woods. 
You can make your own cata-Iogue of the things that might now be different if our Lord's name had been on the short-list 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
great of his­
tory. Even if you're a skeptic, 
ready to shrug Him off as an 
overrated Messiah-figure, you 
must admit that He made a 
name for Himself, which is ei­
ther mumbled in our prayers or 
spat out in our curses. 
An American newspaper re­
porter once wrote: "They 
should have fed Him to the 
lions. His followers would not 
have been able to make a reli­
gious symbol out of mince­
meat." 

Swinburne, a century ago, made use of "Vicisti, Galilaee," the deathbed lament of Emperor Julian the Apostate. Swinburne's great line was: "Thou hast conquered, 0 pale Galilean; the world has grown gray from Thy breath." 
Compare that to the near-obituary that came out of Harvard a generation ago: "Civilization is perhaps ap­proaching one of those long winters that overtake it from time to time ... Romantic Christendom-picturesque, passionate, unhappy episode-may be coming to an end. Such a catastrophe would be no rea­son for despair." 
Notre Dame was founded by a Frenchman who believed that Jesus Christ is a superstar. The Holy Cross priests, sisters, and brothers who assisted him must have shared his creed. 
If Christ had been a nebbish, there never would have been a Notre Dame. If Romantic Christendom should come to an end, Notre Dame could become another Brandeis, but the mo­saic holy card on the face of the library would have no future, except as a conversation piece like the Elgin marbles. As a university, Notre Dame is part of a complicated faith-network that we call the Catholic Church. As church members, we are drawn intG endless argu­ments that would make no sense to any of us if we believed that Christ was a nebbish. 
On days when I have doubts about my faith, or fall out of love with the Church and/or the university, I have to open my Bible to take a look at the street preacher to whom pro­fessing Christians owe their loyalty. 
As much as I might like to, I can't push the Church aside to take an objective look at the Lord of the Church, because the Church is His showcase -the frame for the portrait of the Artist as a young God. History can't explain Him, for He is a faith-figure who relies for His credibility on the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things unseen. The Church says nobody can have an in-depth understanding of Him without the help of divine grace. He has his hooks in me, and, although I've tried, I can't walk away from Him. At the start, you have the faith; before you know it, the faith has you. 
Life would be lonelier if He wasn't there, like a night-light shining in the darkness, but this doesn't mean He is my mystical teddy-bear that I have to hug as I'm going to sleep. Even though He said "I am the Resurrection and the Life," I'm still afraid to die. Yet I do be­lieve that He came from the Father; and that's good news, because it means there is love in the heavens, not just stoney indifference. 
The agnostic tells me that all I can know about Jesus is that He was born, He lived, and He died. Am I supposed to believe 
•hat He escaped suffering the 
Gilgamesh translator talks at NO 
JEREMY MANIER 
accent writer 

Herbert Mason's readings of selected works tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the llesburgh Auditorium will provide an op­portunity for insight into the mind of a uniquely gifted and creative scholar. 
It would be convenient simply to classify Mason, University Professor of religion and Islamic history at Boston University, under a well-defined discipline such as fiction, po­etry, linguistics or history. But Mason's work transcends those definitions. In addition to his published poems and one novel, Mason's Gilgamesh and The Death of al-IIallaj blur conven­tional distinctions between scholarship and creativity. 
Nowhere is this overlapping of disciplines more evident than in Gilgamesh, Mason's master­ful "translation" of the 5000 year-old Sumerian epic. Here Mason has lovingly recrafted the timeless account of a hero's loss into a beautiful verse nar­rative of remarkable poetic !!_ensibility. Gilgamesh, as Mason has rendered it, speaks to our time in the most moving fashion, while remaining faith­ful to its origin. 

In ai-Hallaj, Mason creates a moving portrait of the tenth­century Muslim mystic who re­mains as one of his religion's great spiritual voices. What Mason has created here is not 
quite a play, but, as he puts it, "a celebration of [al-Hallaj's] character and his vision." 
Mason's dramatic narrative 

once again evinces his fantastic 
depth of poetic sensitivity, while 
'Mason is a gifted, 
edifying the Western reader toinsightful poet who, in the thoughts of a wise and 
bridging the gulf gentle Islamic martyr. 
between our time With the fascinating light he 
period and the sheds on the creative process, Herbert Mason represents a
periods of the great 
valuable addition to the 1990minds he has studied Sophomore Literary Festival. and explored, makes More than that, though, Mason 
is a gifted, insightful poet who, 
us all worthy to in bridging the gulf between 
receive their ideas...' our time period and the periods 
of the great minds he has stud­ied and explored, makes us all 
.. 

worthy to receive their ideas 
and make them our own, as he 
has done. 

fate of a nebbish only because Him as the Son of God after 
He was lucky enough to have reading the Passion narratives friends who were smart enough that are powerful enough to to make Him a household break God's own heart. name? 
If Jesus Himself wasn't im-Very often, the human ele­pressive, the public relations ment in the Church gets me team, who left us believing that down, and I wonder why I He was one of the all-time should listen to the alleged pro-greats, were truly geniuses. If fessionals who try to tell me you lined up Jesus in a rogues' what I must do to be a gallery with King Lear, Christian. The moment of truth Florence Nightingale, Hamlet, comes when I try to imagine the Brothers Karamazov, what it might be like to defend Madame Curie, Joan of Arc, my sins before the Lord at the Socrates, St. Francis, and Judgement. Abraham Lincoln, which of those non-conformists would When I give in to my weak-be the most unforgettable? nesses, I can shrug them off 
with a grin, assuring myself 
Even if you demytholo~rized that God understands that boys Him to the status of a long-will be boys. However, when shoreman, Jesus makes those I'm alone at night with my con-other giants look like miidgets. science, iQ.stead of excusing Who did He want us to think He myself to the darkness, I ask was when He said "He who has for God's mercy, and I'm not seen me has seen the Fallher" willing to fall asleep until I have and "Before Abraham was, I made an act of contrition. am?" Do you want me to believe that these claims of divinity Do I get mad at the Church? were part of the hype that His Of course I get mad, but after promoters used? Were the that I ask what the Church has Seven Last Words from the to offer. With the Church to cross also part of their creative help me, I don't feel I'm in one writing? of those no-win situations 
where the blind are leading the 
The pagan Roman soldiers, blind. Yet all of us get fed up who heard him praying, with something that "Father, forgive them," as he Shakespeare calls "the inso­was feeling the sharp bite from lence of office." Mere mortals the nails in His hands, under-shouldn't pretend that they can stood that such a display of know the mind of Christ, as if grace under pressure was god-the Saviour could be reached by like. Or was that magnificent direct dialing. .curtain speech also part of the scenario His script writers in-I have a conscience that vented in order to inspire His warns me of danger like a followers to have the courage Geiger counter. Nothing stands to seek martyrdom on their between Christ and my con­.own? science unless I let pride and 
selfishness get in the way like a 
The Gospels are too full of shadow. If I do that, I am the surprises for us to believe that nebbish, unworthy to have my Matthew, Mark, Luke and John name written in the Lamb's turned the carpenter's son into Book of Life. If the Lord of the a universal folk hero through Church had been a nebbish, the power of positive thinking. how would I have known that How can we fail to believe in there is a Lamb's Book of Life? 

" 
-~---~-----~~­
Friday, March 2, 1990 page 15
The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds ev#ry business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
\ NOTICES] TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 NEED A BABYSITTER? 21 YR OLD, NO SENIOR, WILLING TO SIT EVENINGS. HAVE CARIWILL TRAVEL, RATES NEGOTIABLE. CALL MICHELLE 283-1825. MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL tNSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 For a hot tip on where to find a good time Call 647-0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events Hotline LOST/FOUND  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800-343-8373 Looking for a ride for Spring Break to Long Island/NYC area. Can leave Friday. Call Pat@ #283·1786 WANTED: POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED FOR HIGH-CALIBER BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 Looking for someone to house sit this summer? Responsible St. Marys student is available starting in May. Call Aimie Vargas 284-4417. fOR RENT I SUMMER RENTAL 6/1-8/1 5 Bdrm,2 Bath,Furnished $120p.mnth p.prsn 515 W. Marion JON x2506  Need 1 Mizzou stud. GA ticket. Please call Bill x1696. Thanx NEED Missou tix 4 GA's and 2 Studs Please call Matt x2265 Help mel! My parents need 2 Mizzou B·ball Tix. Call Mike #2940 We have tickets tor the following events at the LaFortune Box Office: 1. The Importance of Being Earnest 2. John Kolisch 3. George Carlin 4. Dream Girls 5. Gallagher 6. Oh Calcutta Thank You St. Jude Need 2 Missouri tixll I PERSONALS 1 Looking tor a fraternity, sorority of student organization that would like to make $500·$1000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592·2121 .  BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college teachers, unable to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible, caring people ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect anytime except Tues!Thurs. 317-743-4512. Snap, krackle, POPI LET THE AIR OUT OF THE TIGERS! GOIRISHI Senator, Snowballs are no fun, but ice can be... l?!?lll Potentate hi ag Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!!! Love your busy bees I Cheer up and prepare for Bookstore--All is not lost! I P.S. Thanks to Ray Flannery and Joe Hippler for a great season. PHILIP KRAKER Will it be the NBA or the business world? Choices, choices. Consult your cruise director Julie McCoy to help  1st Annual B.P. Stairclimb forS.O.S.IIIIIIIII!II Saturday, March 2nd 11am-1pm at Breen · Phillips Hall Come join us,just for the health of itllllllllllllll Prizes!!!! Refreshments!!!! St. Paul WHO??? Come to McConnick's Saturday, Mar. 3rd The McBoathouse McBiues Band 10til2 ---It's McCooler, Man The BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND at McConnick's Sat. Mar. 3rd 1Otil2 -What IS the "scoop" on campus bands anyway??? SPRING BREAK DAYTONA $139 nn. only; $229 w. trans High qua)ity accommadations call Todd 1·800·265-1799 To the blond in the red sweater­You sat in the first or second row of  HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRIGID BRENNAN a.k.a. BABSIIIII!! TOP 1 0 LIST OF WHY YOU'RE OUR FRIEND: 10. you flip your hair in your face when you're drunk. 9. you knew we were psyched when the dry cleaners ruined your dress. 8. the stare. 7. you eat toast and forget. 6. fatal in Spring '89. 5. your parents are Jim and Patty Fever. 4. you take Ed G. to Los. 3. Scabemathy wants you. 2. you drive Packy's car like S· ·1. 1. we love you, but you love yourself more. Love, Madge, Farhead and Gilly Hey mugs! yes, irs me I Get ready for our adventure in Cali, T J, UCSD and crusin' ! K Watt· we'll stick to surfers this trip I Jude-we have to get some practice in! Jen-No visiting Ed this time Amy-I hope those Dil!onhes know missionary! Can we say....! WEEK till break!!!  
LOST Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­Vision case. Please call x2967 if found. LOST: GREY I. D. CASE in the coatroom of the Snite Thursday, 2­22 at 5:10P.M. To the person who took this, you were seen and I. D. ed. Return it immediately and no questions will be asked. LOST: a walkman from the Rocke. It was a x-mas present, $$ reward offered-no questions. call x1703. Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red stripes. Any info call Tom at 234-9728. REWARD  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 2 and 4 bedrm. furnished houses; 90-91 year. Great cond.iarea. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? 2 bedroom furnished apt. available for subleasing Call Now!!! 284-4070 FOR SALE IBM PC system: color-graphics,  HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­8445. ? ? NEED TO MAKE COPIES ? ? THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 6¢ Copies & open on weekends Ride Needed To NH/Boston area for Spring Break. Will share driving & expenses. Call 283-3442. $$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ Need Billy Joel Tickets Ill! Worse than you could believe II Please call #2030 or #48191! Don't forget,$$$$$$$$$$!!!!!!!!!  make your choice. SATURDAY SATURDAY CLUB 23 SATURDAY St. Paul and the Martyrs SATURDAY SATURDAY CLUB 23 SATURDAY a. St. Vik and the Martyrs b. St. Jerry and the Martyrs c. St. Kevin and the Martyrs d. St. Brian and the Martyrs e. St. Paul and the Martyrs come out and enjoy any of these great campus bands  the bleachers behind section 2 with 2 friends. Specific enough? PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES friday nile at club 23 1111111111/\II.AAAAPRE""""""""""""II. """11./\"SWEAT"""""" AAAfTCHIESAA Hey, guys from 2nd floor Grace. How do you feel about women? "We have the highest respect for women. They're sensitive, mysterious, and compassionate," I need a ride to PITTSBURGH AREA (or destinations east on PA turnpike) for break-will help pay for gas, tolls-Lisa X2218  Love , Guid (R B) Valentines To the "ladies" of SMC, All my love, Odie MONICA BADER VALERIE LUKAS CAROL MINDOCK KELLY O'BRIEN KATHY PANOS MARY SANDE Just a personal to say hi-Hill! Having you as friends is a most excellent adventure!  
FOUND: One black Studio Six shoe at St. Ed's late Friday Night (Did you walk barefoot?) Call # 4364 to identify and claim. Did you lose a 1 inch diameter gold earring near Wash Hall? To recover your earring,please come to 213 St. Ed's with the correct match. LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! A gold, Gruen watch with a smooth brown band in between Knott and St. Ed's. Call Brad at x1701.  printer, &software:$1000 or best offer-call X1090 & leave message. Plane TX to DENVER leave 311 0 return 3/17 out of Indianapolis CHEAP! #4825 think spring break!­ATTENTION FEMALE TRAVELERS!III!IIIIIIII!I FOR SALE: Spring Break plane ticket to Ft. Lauderdale BEST OFFER call Molly @284-5410  SCOTT SCOTT SCOTT SCOTT Happy birthday on March 2. 21 finally!!!!!!!!! GILBERT GILBERT GILBERT POP GO THE TIGERS! GO IRISH! I want to buy your Missouri Ticket -­Call 283-2785 GOING TO CINCINNATI3/9-10? Please take me with you I$$$  SATURDAY, March 3 at CLUB 23 Viktor llir Berberi, I've been trying to get a hold of you all week. If you have some time this Saturday, March 3rd, could you play with me and the Martyrs at Club 23 around 1 0 pm until way way late??? Thanks, ST. PAUL p.s. Be prepared to sing B. Dylan's "Isis"  Elli-See Me-Feel Me-Touch Me­Heal Me. I want you now. The Red hot Lover HARASS HER! ANNOY HER! RACHEL CROSSEN IS21 ON SATURDAY!! love, the quad! HMMM.....HMMM...HMMM...AMY HUMMY WE LOVE YOU! HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY LOVE YOUR ROOMIES HMMM...HMMM  Love, KI.M. Hey Sophomore Women!! Join us for a study break!! • IRISH TAKE SOHO • March 7 . 8:30.9:30 Haggar Chameleon Room "PLUS" All NO women are invited to join us for dinner at 5:00, to study afterwards, before the study break! Happy Birthday Amy Heimberg!  
LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. High sentimental value .. ••••reward**••••••• Call Debbie #2935. I WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. Need a ride to Md, Va, or DC area over break. Will pay and help drive. Call Tom 4180 GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL DESPERATELY SEEKING A GOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM.  Boston Acoustics A-70 spks Rated #1 in Consumer Reports. $225 OBO call Tony 289-8020 80' FORD FAIRMONT. AUTOMATIC, AIC. 110,000 MI. RUNS OK. $640. CALL LEE, 272­8538. 75 Buick Runs good X3013 PLANE TICKET South Bend to Denver 3-9 to 3-18. Call Pete 272-9927 I TICKETS I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT 502-582-1920.  Tanya x3688. STUDENTS... JUST DO IT!!!!! Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. Visit the NO Computer Store tor more details. •••NINTENDO TOURNEY••• Two man Tecmo Bowl Win a Nintendo Action Set Open to all classes! Sign up at Sr. Class Office 3-5 by Mon. Permed Blond, I'm sorry, everyone sat behind me in Chemistry. Flowers are gorgeous, thanks. Need another hint. Scoped in class -Respond here- DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS LEARN to play drums from a former Domer Drummer. INTERESTED??? Any Questions? CONTACT Paul at 232-9646 DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS DRUMS Come rain, sleet or snow, The Windy City Shuttle still comes and goes! Tickets only $10 at the LaFortune Information Desk. 1st Annual B.P. Stairclimb for S.O.S. Saturday,March 2nd 11am-1pm at B.P.!!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN PATRICK TANSEY!!!!! did you think I would forget? have a great day. mmm ••••••••••••** * * •* * * ** *•••* ** * ** * *** Spend Your Weekend With Mel Gibson, Harrison Ford, & Steve Martin! DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES -FRIDAY­9:00 Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade 11 :30 Parenthood ·SATURDAY· 9:00 Hoosiers 11 :30 Lethal Weapon II FREE-In the Dillon Party Room  Sorry I won1 be able to join your celebration! -Michael Jordan Hee Haw!! Happy 22 to Amy Heimberg!!!-George Bailey The post-tournament Top Ten (12) Mock Trial Quotes: 12. Throw mine in the blender for later. 11 . I've still got crust on my forehead. 10. She's starting a war she don't want to start. 9. Vengeance has a name. What is that name? 8. So many debts, so little payments. 7. I'm the official scale. 6. Gasoline chips 5. I still think I got harshed. 4. The pie is dangerous. 3. She didn't have anything in her hair until she came in the  
NEED RIDE TO/NEAR PHILL Y  NEED 3 KENTUCKY LOWER  Come and climb, just for  shower with me.  
FOR SPRING BREAK! will pay & help drive. Call Larissa x3719  ARENA G.A.'S. CALL BRYCE X1646  CB Boxing isn't so bad after all.  the health of it!!!  JOHN,  2. Just say no. 1. Don't look at h-just eat it.  
RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA· FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELP DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4078 Pardon me; I am seeking a goodly number of those darling little tank  $Need Missouri Tix X1418 $ I Need Missouri tickets, both GAs and student. Please call Jeanne at 2600 and leave a message.  GOOD LUCK 00 HAPPY 21ST MARIA LASSO HAVE A GREAT ONE!  B.P. Stairclimb for S.O.S. Saturday, March 2nd 11 am-1 pmatB.P. Come and climb for a good cause!!  Here's a Happy Birthday wish to a really old guy. I hope your 20th year is the best yet. Maybe after break I'll learn how to change the water. Something new isn't that bad after all. Love,  ..,  - 
tops that read, "Drink like a champion." Do call X3574.  I Need Missouri Tixl Kevin x1758  LOVE, ALLISON & NANCY  Prizesllll Refreshments!!!!  Goofy  
Chris,  
Need ride home or close to ho-me-­ NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS-CAN  Skinny',  Of all the lives,  
Atlanta; Thomasville, Ga.; or  HEY!I  GOOD SAMARITAINS!II  LEAVE 3-8 OR 3-9-DAVE X1808  of all the guys  
Tallahassee, Fla.  PLEEEEZ help me out here!II!  Are those real or inflatable?  in the world,  
(Southern GA) Can leave after 2:30 Fri.,return by Sun night. Call Shonda X2551 COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE:  I DESPARATELY need to trade my MIZZOU student ticket for a GA for my wonderful father! PLEEZcall Bryan at 272-7313 to help out a man in need Ill  I NEED 1 RIDER TO GO TO HARRISBURG FOR SPRING BREAK. I WILL BE LEAVING 3/9 AND RETURN 3/18. CALL BETH X2722  I'm sorry its just genetics I guess. Keep trying anyway. What room was that in McCandles anyway? I think I left my boots.  you walked into mine. I love youl Happy 21st Birthday\  §WJP®©O&J!J $1 OFF  
Outstanding brother/sister sports camps · 22 mile lake near "On  $$$$1 REALLY NEED TWO  Slimfast  112" international I  
Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls -215-884-3326; boys· 914-698· 1833. ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F  MISSOURI STUDS OR GA'S. PLEASE CALL PETE AT #2043. LEAVE MESSAGE. MISSOURI I MY FRIEND FROM 'NOVA WANTS TO SEE A REAL B-BALL GAME--NEED JUST 1  ELMER BENNETT GOOD LUCK AGAINST • MISSOURI SATURDAY!! HOPE YOU ARE FEELING BETTER!! FROM AN ADMIRER  1st Annual B.P. Stairclimb for S.O.S. When:Saturday, March 2nd 11am-1pm Where:Breen -Phillips Hall Why:For the _t!ealth ol it! I  Maybe if'you had some class, the guys from 2nd floor Grace would respect you. From the Women of NO.  I  combo Free Delivery expires 3/8/90  
10AM-4PM 255-8700  --CALL BRETT AT 3841  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOM SEIDLER  Prizes!!!  Refreshments!!!  P.S. Frank is a classy guy.  



..------_,_________,______ 
-. ---···~~-~--­
~------~~----···-· ·-­
page 16 The Observer 
Big Eight road games still haunt Colorado 
BOULDER, Colo. (AP) -Just last fall, the Colorado football team raced through its 11­game regular season unde­feated, and now the basketball team has compiled an even more incredible streak ... but to considerablv fewer cheers. 
When the Buffaloes capped their season with a 96-82 loss at Nebraska Wednesday night, it marked their 52nd straight Big Eight loss on the road. 
That seemingly endless procession of setbacks, along with meager home attendance and a sleep-inducing style of play, got coach Tom Miller fired. 
The contrasts between the two sports on the same pic­turesque foothills campus could 
Dayton 
continued from page 24 

places tonight," praised McGraw. "She had a great game on the boards and defen­sively. And they don't score from her side of the zone too often." 
Davis played a big role in shutting down Dayton's Kaihra Goodman. The MCC Player of the Week was held to 11 points and eight rebounds. She and guard Annette Melvin, who also had 11, paced the Flyers' scor­ing. 
Robinson led the Irish with 20 points, but five members of the Notre Dame squad finished the game in double figures. Pretty amazing for a team with only seven healthy players. 
"I thought tonight was an ex­ample of how good we can be," said Robinson, who also tallied four assists and three steals. "Even with so few players, this 
year we have a chemistry that wasn't there Jast year." 
Aiding Robinson's effort were center Margaret Nowlin and point guard Coquese Washington. Nowlin's 10 points and rebounds also gave her a double-double, while Washington totaled 12 points in addition to her five steals and five assists. To the delight of the crowd, most of her bas­kets came on court-length fast breaks and some fancy drib­bling. 
"Coquese is really improving," commented McGraw. "She might commit some turnovers, but a lot of that comes from the others not being used to catching her passes. She likes to make the big plays and I en­courage the flashy style. It's exciting." 
Notre Dame also got some help off the bench. With an in­jured Sara Liebscher out of the lineup, McGraw called on Deb Fitzgerald and Majenica Rupe to pick up the slack. Fitzgerald's confident outside shooting gave her 13 points, while Rupe held her own defen­sively, blocking four shots. 
The Irish also stayed out of foul trouble, a necessity when the roster totals only seven
-people. With Liebscher ques­tionable for Tuesday's game at Dayton, Notre Dame may again have to face the prospect of a small number of players getting more than ample playing time, and possibly tiring out. But that didn't seem to bother the Irish last night. Although Dayton started the game in a full court press, McGraw said she wanted Notre Dame to speed up the tempo of the game. "We like to run and we're good at it. We had expected the press." Ramsey admitted that although she used the pressure defense to spark her own team, 
/ 


Photography Department 
is no~ taking apylications f~r the following 
Assistant Photo Editor positions: 
Sports, Features, 
and Saint Mary's 
Submit a one-page personal statement to The Observer office by March 9. For more '-information, contact Eric Bailey at 239-5323 . ./ 


Friday, March 2, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cross country ski rentals will be Thursday-Sunday from 4:30 to 5:30p.m. at the golf shop as weather permits. 
WVFI-AM 640 will broadcast the Bengal Bouts at 8 p.m. tonight and the NO-Missouri basketball game at 2:30 p.m. Saturday. Join Jamey Rappis, Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormick for all the actiion. 
NVA needs officials for floor hockey. The pay is $8.50 per game. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Late Men's BookstorE! Basketball sign-ups for anyone who missed all the other sign-ups will be held from 2-4 p.m. Monday, March 3, in the SUB office. This will be the final opportunity for sign-ups. 
Women's Bookstore I:Jasketball sign-ups will be on March 26. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Assistant "liewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Michelle Dall by 5 p.m. Monday, March 5. For further information, contact Michelle Dall at 239-7471. 


When you go to that all important job interview do you want copies of your resume or do you want originals? 
Adworks 
gives you originals, not copies. 
Each resume we print for you is an original. Do you really want your future employer to see acopy of your resume or a11 original? You decide. 
Adworks • 301 Lafortune • (219) ADW-ORKS 
hardly be more startling. 
Football coach Bill McCartney received numerous coach-of­the-year honors at the end of 1989, and his players also drew accolades during a drive toward the national championship that stalled in an Orange Bowl loss to Notre Dame. 
For Miller, the postseason was short-lived but no less eventful. Just minutes after the loss to Nebraska, CU athletic director Bill Marolt announced Miller's firing. The pink slip actually was handed out earlier in the week, but the announcement was delayed un­til the completion of the final regular-season game. 
Miller will stay on the job for next week's Big Eight postseason tournament, and the final year of his five-year contract will be honored. It will 
pay him $76,000, but he won't 
be able to cash in next year on 
the reported $50,000 he is paid 
for his weekly television show. 
The Buffs' top player, junior center Shaun Vandiver, had vowed to leave the school if Miller was fired, but the nega­tives Miller built up in four sea­sons were too much for the administration to ignore. 
Criticized for his temper and his sometimes abusive treatment of players, Miller let loose one final verbal assault when questioned about his sta­tus Wednesday night. 
Dayton could not keep up with Notre Dame's speed. "They've got solid experience and are really quick," said Ramsey. "They recognize their strengths and take it to you." The win ups Notre Dame' record to 20-6 overall and 15-0 in the MCC. With only one regu­lar game and the conference tournament remaining, the Irish hope their performance last night will help them receive an invitation to the NCAA championships. "I'm trying not to think about it," said Robinson, who is now seventh on the Irish all-time 
scoring list. "I'd like to say our 
chances are good and I think 
we deserve it, but l don't want 
to get my hopes up." 

"They've got my support," 
said Ramsey. "We've played 
some of the other teams that 
will probably be in the tourna­
ment and I think Notre Dame 
should go." 

While the Irish must wait un­til March 11 to see if they'll at­tain the bid, in the meantime Notre Dame sets its nine-game winning streak on the line Tuesday in Detroit and March 9-11 at the MCC tourney. 


·--------------------------~ -­
Friday, March 2, 1990 
The Observer 

Michigan State defeats Michigan 
Minnesota, Wisconsin also victorious in Big Ten games 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) -­Steve Smith's 36 points matched his career high and led Michigan State to a 78-70 vic­tory over No. 8 Michigan on Thursday night, giving the Spartans undisputed posses­sion of first place in the Big Ten. 
The win gave No. 14 Michigan State (23-5, 12-3) a half-game lead over idle Purdue. The Spartans have won seven straight and ended a five-game losing streak against Michigan (20-6, 10-5). 
Smith scored 25 points in the second half, including 13 in a 19-6 surge that put Michigan State ahead 67-53 with 7:01 remaining. 
Terry Mills, who led Michigan with 31 points, scored 10 in a 13-2 run that brought the Wolverines to 69-66 with 2:47 left. However, Matt Steigenga gave the Spartans a lift when 
'••••*~'*'~**~'*'~**~~*·*<l!'*'*<llli'*'~<llli•<litl'@·<llll'~~**~~<i!><S~>~B><S~><S~><i!>
>+ 
~ ~ A 
,. 
,.>+ 
:: T/t,t:r IJ'tt~ o;e~ato~ «.~Iffbe ''20 /Jol( ;tfaJ<-t~ 1. •+ 
:£11APPtf81RTIIOAtfrfA!VOtf/ ;tf();tf&0110:£ 
~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
,...................................... 
he stripped the ball from Michigan's Michael Talley and scored on a dunk to give Michigan State a 72-66 lead at the 1:50 mark. 
Two free throws apiece in the 
final minute by Steigenga, who 
had 12 points, and Mark 
Montgomery, who finished with 
13, clinched the victory. 
Michigan State led 33-28 at halftime. Michigan's only lead was 7-6 when Mills hit a jumper. 
A 12-2 spurt midway through the first half, keyed by Montgomery's five points, gave Michigan State a 23-12 lead. Michigan came back with a 10­2 burst, capped by Demetrius Calip's 3-pointer, to cut the gap to 25-22. 
Minnesota 75,
Indiana 70 

Willie Burton says he couldn't have done it without the Indi-
WANTED: 
One ambitious Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student seeking challenging extra-curricular involvement to fill the following position: 
Observer Typesetting Service Director 
Applicants for this position should: 
• 
Possess strong management skills and the ability to work with all types of people. 

• 
Be eager to develop valuable Apple Macintosh skills. 

• 
Be energetic and enterprising. 

• 
Have the initiative to expand upon the successes of a profitable business venture. 


Contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position.
Ihe Qbset:ver__ _ 

ROSTER MINIMUM OF 12-MAXIMUM OF 16 ALLPLAYERSFROM THE SAME HALL RULES HANDED OUT WITU SCHEDULES HANDROSER.SINATTHENVAOFFlCE PLAYWILLSfARTASWEATHER PERMITS 
IDEADLINE -MARCH 7 I 
ana defense. 
Burton, who scored nine of Minnesota's last 10 points 
Thursday  night  to  beat  the  
Hoosiers  75-70,  said  the  
Hoosiers kept him  quiet  the  

first half and then forgot about him late in the game. 
"I guess towards the end of the game they must have thought I had laid down and died," Burton said. "But I didn't, I just kept working hard." 
Minnesota (20-6 overall, 11-5 in the Big Ten) trailed for the first time with 3:35 to play after Pat Graham hit a 3­pointer. 
But after trading baskets, Indiana (16-9, 6-9) didn't hit another shot from the floor for almost three minutes, allowing Burton to rattle off Minnesota's next nine points for a 74-70 lead. 
"I think Indiana got tired at the end and their youth started to show," Burton said. Indiana played six freshmen. 
Indiana closed to 72-70 on a basket by Cheaney with 23 sec­onds left, but two free throws by Burton 2 seconds later sealed the victory. 
Gophers coach Clem Haskins called it an "emotional" victory. 
"One of our goals was to compete for the Big Ten cham­pionship, and we still have a shot. I'm proud of this team. They've been told they couldn't win on the road, but we've grown and we will win." 
Indiana coach Bob Knight de­clined to talk about post-season possibilities. 
"We got beat at Michigan State because we made enough errors to be in position not to win," Knight said. "Tonight at the end we had a chance and it came down to who was going to make the plays. Minnesota did a good job of making the plays." 
TODAY/ I FRIDAY MARCH 2nd/ I 
SEE IMPACT TIGHTS 
THE FUN TO WEAR FITNESS FASHIONS 
NOON-4:00 

DOOLEY ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

• IMPACT TIGHTS• CUSTOM FITNESS APPAREL AND SWIMWEAR FOR •AEROBICS • DANCING • RUNNING • SWIMMING• 
LARGE SELECTION OF COLORFUL STYLES FROM CONSERVATIVE TO OUTRAGEOUS 
NOW BOOKING FITNESS FASHION PARTIES! CALL291-6543 FOR INFORMATION 
Minnesota took a 7-0 lead in 
the first two minutes and led 20-4 with 14:10 to go as guard Kevin Lynch scored 11 of the Gophers' first 20 points. 
The Gophers hit 7 of 10 from the floor in the opening 5:50 while holding Indiana to 2 of 11 shooting. 
The Hoosiers fought back from a 22-6 deficit with 13:37 to play in the first half, scoring nine straight points in 1:30, led by Calbert Cheaney with 7, to cut the gap to 22-15 with 12:11 left. 
Chris Lawson brought Indi­ana within two with 23 seconds to go, but Burton's 3-pointer with 10 seconds left gave the Gophers a 44-39 halftime lead. 
Kevin Lynch added 15 and Newbern 14 for Minnesota. Graham led all scorers with 21 points, Cheaney added 18 and Anderson 16 for Indiana. 
page 17 
Wisconsin 65, Northwestern 50 

Danny Jones scored 22 points and Tim Locum scored all of his 12 in the second half, as Wisconsin beat Northwestern 65-50 in a Big Ten game Thursday night. 
Jones got 16 of his points in 
the first half when the Badgers 
(14-15 overall and 4-12 in con­
ference play) pulled to a 29-23 
halftime lead. 
The Wildcats (9-17 and 2-13) 
closed to within 35-33 early in 
the second half before Wiscon­
sin went on a 11-0 run to take 
control. 
A dunk by Patrick Tompkins 
off a steal by Locum gave the 
Badgers a 42-33 lead. Locum 
followed with two free throws 
after a technical foul on 
Northwestern coach Bill Foster. 
Two more free throws by 
Locum pushed the lead to 46­
33. Kevin Nixon finally scored for Northwestern to break a 4­minute, 50-second dry spell. 
Walter Lambiotte led 
Northwestern with 15 points. 
Rex Walters added 11 but made 
only 3 of 11 shots from the 
floor. 
Willie Simms added 11 and 
Tompkins 10 for the Badgers. 
Wisconsin allowed North­
western to stay close by hitting 
only 13 of 21 free throws in the 
second half. 
Wisconsin took an early 17­
10 lead behind eight points 
from Jones, but the Wildcats 
went on a 9-0 run capped with 
Walters' 3-pointer with 9:08 
left in the first half. Fouled on 
the play, his free throw con­
verted a rare 4-point play. 
Jones scored Wisconsin's next eight points, leading the Badgers on a 12-4 run to close thP. hlllf 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't dri\.edrunk. 
Reader's Digest 

t. 

~--~----­


Thursday, March 1st, 1990 
7:30•MainPLiqu;eRocm(CSC) 
"What Do the Issues in Eastern Europe Mean to us as Members of the Notre Dame Community and as Citizens of a Nation?" 
Panel-lead Discussion With: Common Sense, Dialogue, Observer, and Scholastic Reporters who covered the events. 
ADWORKS 
page 18 The Observer 
ND lacrosse opens with Canisius 
Great expectations, rule change await '90 Irish season 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's version of the "fastest game on two feet" will be looking to charge out of the starting block on Saturday as it embarks on its lOth varsity season in search of an elusive NCAA Tournament bid. 
The Irish lacrosse team will open its 15-game season Saturday at 12:30 p.m. when it hosts Canisius College at the Loftus All-Sports Center (or Krause Stadium, depending on the weather). 
Coming off a rollercoaster 7­6 season, the Irish again will be aiming for the NCAA Western bid that has narrowly eluded them the past three years. But first come the Golden Griffins, a team making its debut at the Division I level. 
"We really don't know that much about Canisius because they're a new Division I team," said second-year Irish coach Kevin Corrigan . "We played a team last year that was playing its first Division I game, and they were thrilled to be playing us. We need to make sure we take care of our own business by executing and not worry so much about what they're going to do." 
Corrigan is referring to last year's 8-7 overtime loss to SUNY-Stony Brook. That sea­son-opening defeat on the road was followed by two more losses before the Irish rolled off seven straight wins. This year they will obviously be looking for a more positive start, and playing at home should provide a significant help. 
"Obviously. everyone wants to play at home, especially at Notre Dame," Corrigan said. "Canisius will make a great opening game for us. 
"We've always drawn well for students, and I hope that we can get some great support out there on Saturday. We could really use a vocal crowd to our advantage," he continued. "We hope that, by moving up, the starting time, people will come over before the basketball game (against Missouri) and get into the mood to scream." 
The Irish will be looking to overcome the fundamental er­rors that cost them in last year's turbulent season. Four of their six losses were by two goals or less, including season­ending losses to Michigan State and Ohio State that cost Notre Dame the NCAA bid. 
"We just weren't strong fun­damentally last year, and it ended up costing us." Corrigan said. "This year I think the atti­tude is that the guys want to be better and they want to play at a higher level. One of the biggest things that I think we've tried to do in the last year is establish a work ethic. The kids have set goals for themselves that we think are realistic. 
Senior midfielders Mike Quigley (Kings Park, N.Y.) and Dave Carey (Sudbury, Mas.) will co-captain a team that boasts 13 returning mono·gram win­ners and an impressive 17 new­comers. Other newcomers in­clude assistant coaches Mark Vita and Kevin Lawler, who join second-year assistant Gerry Byrne to provide specialized in­
struction not available in the 
past. 

Several NCAA rule changes involving substitution, clearing and the number of long-stick defensemen on the field should have a significant impact on the season. particularly for the Irish midfielders. 
"There are new rules, and they make the midfielder more important than ever," Corrigan said. "Getting consistent scor­ing from our midfield is going to be very important. We'll be playing three groups offensively in the midfield this year be­cause of the rule change." 
The Irish defense will look to overcome the graduation of four experienced leaders, in­cluding two captains. But Corrigan said he isn't overly concerned. 
"I think that we can be better than last year on defense -I really do," Corrigan said. "One thing is we'll have one less long stick on the field, so our mid­dies need to realize the impor­tance of their defense and that they're able to step in and be effective." 
Notre Dame has not lost a home opener since 1981, when the Irish fell to Ohio Wesleyan 17-5. In fact, only five teams ever have beaten the Irish in South Bend, and the Irish have established an impressive 33-12 record at home in nine years of varsity play. Seven home games are on this season's slate, in­cluding matchups with Michigan State and Ohio State in late April that again could determine the winner of the NCAA bid. 
Friday, March 2, 1990 
The Observer 1John Studebaker Mike Quigley (left) and the Notre Dame lacrosse team begins its spring season this weekend at home aQainst new Division I team Canisius.
I American Red Cross + 
r 
"' 
~-Ihe ')bsener___ 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Friday, March 2 to Greg Guffey. For further information, call Greg Guffey at 239-5303 or 283-1662. 
""'
'" 
. \ 

Friday, March 2, 1990 The Observer page 19 
Corpus Christi calls men's tennis to H.E.B. Collegiate Championships 
By BOB MITCHELL talented than any other Irish 
tennis-Chuck Coleman, Andy door competition of the season. Sports Writer team in recent history. But it Zurker, Mark Schmidt and Ron "This weekend we will face also is the youngest squad in Rosas-have kept afloat in the some of the best teams in the recent memory. Notre Dame's rough waters of college tennis. country as 10 of the top 20 The 1990 season has been fortunes heavily rely on youth. teams will be at the H.E.B. nothing short of spectacular While most tennis powers have Championships, said
Coming off a 6-3 upset of No. 
for the Notre Dame men's ten­the luxury of depending upon 25 Minnesota, the Irish con­Bayliss. "We will have to make nis team. Under their mentor experience, Bayliss is forced to 
tinue to battle national colle­two adjustments-the quality of Bob Bayliss, the 11-1 Irish have throw out his youthful players giate powers at the H.E.B. the competition and the ad­far exceeded any collegiate ten­to the hungry sharks of top­Collegiate Championship from justment to playing outdoors. 
nis expert's expectactions and, ranked collegiate tennis pow­March 1-4 in Corpus Chritsi, Corpus Christi traditionally has perhaps it would be safe to say, ers. Suprisingly enough, and Texas. Bayliss &Co. will take on been one of the windiest places their own expectations. thankfully I might add, the Oklahoma in the first round, to play."
Bob Bayliss

Yes, this year's squad is more Fourhorsemen of Notre Dame which also marks the first out-
boxing skill. Wednesday night, should give after winning in the semifinals "Balint looked awfully strong Becklund a run for his money. of the 150-pound division in a
Bengals 
in his fight (Wednesday night)," The highlight of the lower walkover and Chuck Moser will 
continued from page 24 
said boxing coach Sean weight classes could be John meet Kerry Wate in the 160­
Hometown favorite Chris McCormick. "But his match Manfredy's 134-pound fight pound final. Balint, a menacing brawler in with Trainor should be a good against Derek Bartlett. Bartlett Also, Norm Conley will mix up the 167-pound division, will fight." punished Mo Elevado in winning his punches against Jim have his hands full with Mike In the 158-pound division, a unanimous decision on Hawkins in the 162-pound divi­Trainor, who won a unanimous two-time champion Vance Wednesday night and Manfredy sion, Patrick Fay will fight decision over Garth Behrje Becklund, who made Dave chased Bill Wheeler around the Kevin Max in the 174-pound di­Wednesday night. The bout will Tyndall wear a mask of blood ring like an attack dog in the vision and Chris Kiley will con­be a contrast in styles, as in the semifinals, will have to semifinals as he also won tend with Mike Ryan for the Balint will attack with a wild defeat John Sordi to claim a unanimously. 180-pound title. but effective flurry of punches third championship. Sordi, who The remaining fights will fea­"For the finals Friday night while Trainor will try to turn finished off Tim Tyvand 1:11 ture some excellent boxers as this place should be rocking the match into an exhibition of into the second round well. Timothy Phelan and Brian and rolling," said McCormick. 
Stokes will square off in the "It should be a great night. The 127-pound division, Mick Meyer two big guys (Shannon and
what's happening at 7~~ 0 and Erik Milito will battle for Prinzivalli) will be fighting, and the 138-pound title, Shane you should see some great Hitzeman will face Kurt Lauber fights." 
lndie Industrial Innovative•' 
Dance Music Chinese-American 
Restaurant &

·--~'i-C R £A7" 
Cocktail Loun&e 

'YALL 
·;..;;.~.::.,;-... Lunches starting at_____ Dinners starting at_____ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.• Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. -Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11p.m . .,L---.....1 Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Way S., South Bend (next to Randall"s Inn) 
~'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''S
~[[AliT(~ ~ 
s s 
6

NEXTTOVENTURE DaiiV 9· ~ guess we can't ~ 
the 10-2 

GRAPE RD.. MISHAWAKA Sat. 9·6 ~ ._..,_1 15
~27~7-7~94~6iiiii'~·-iiiiiiiirl._.~·~'~S~un~.~-~ ~ blOW off your ~
HOUSE PARTY 
~Chk-agollalrCutttng('~J ~ birthday this ~ ~year ... YOU'RE ~ ~ 21! ~ 
The Following Message May Surprise You ... 
s ~ 
~ WE LOVE YOU ~
----"~ Oldsmobile 
~CROOKS! ~ 
KILLILEA S ---!Moe, Ju{ie, ~ ~ Lowe, 'Erin, andCarofine ~ 
Can put you into a 
~''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''~ 


1990 OLDSMOBILE 
Don't pay thousands for an ordinary car when 1st time buyers can buy a Cutlass Calais for only 
8995* 
Plus Factory To Dealer Incentives on other Oldsmobile Models allow for Great Deals on all Oldsmobiles 
m  rDh  JllheNewGenera11onor  
Michtana ooolds Pros ~ KILLILEA  ~()K::isrroblle  
Oldsmobile  

2102 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544 
(219) 255-9644 
*TAX, TITLE, DFSTINATION CHARGE AND OPTIONS EXTRA SALE PRICE OF $9995 MINUS $600 1ST TIME BUYER 00 
The Differences Between Gays and Straights 
S traigfttJ art from Mrmal famiGu, willi JtrO"tJ moral values twf900ti parentS. 
Gays are from normal fam­Ilies, with strong moral 11olues and good parents. 
:Ma"y JtraiBfttJ wan.t to Jtttu tfown wi.Ui oou pwon in a mDMBamoUJ rtUuiDTtSfrip. 
Many gays want to settle down with one person In a monogamous relationship. 
StraigfttJ are, in a•rural, tflant, cfwnfJ. BOi"tJ, !IJJ(·payi"tf 11JPU of pU1p4. 
Gays are, In general, decent, church-going, taN­paying types or people. 
Straigfus Gnlt tkir fanUI"w twf"""" 10 liawfamiliu of tluir ...... 
Gays lo11e their families and want to ha11e families af their own.
Straigfu fo~ tfit!n'• r.IUJoso to 6t. Jtraig6.1, tfuy just an. 
Gay folks dldn"t choose to be gay, they just are. 
·This ad sponsored by a gay Notre Dame alumnus. 
·we don t mean tb lmJIIY Thlir there are no differences be­tween straight people and gaypeople; there are: 
Straight people don't face prejudice, discrimination, and baseless hatred every day. Gay people do. 
Straight people aren't denied jobs, housing, adoption, in­heritance, tax benefits, and other privileges and rights just because they're straight. Gay people are. 
Straight people aren't told by churches and society that they are sick, sinful, and unlawful because of something they didn't choose and have no control over. Gay people are. 
There are more gay students, staff, and faculty on these campuses than there are Blacks, Hispanics, or Jews. If you're gay, lesbian, or bi­sexual, we're here for you. GLND/SMC offers, support, education, and friendship. Write or call us for more in­fonnation. 
Cays and Lesblana at Notre Dame/St. Mary'tCollep Poat Office Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.,. coli 1uneo (283-(256) .,Mike <283-2045) 

The Observer Friday, March 2, 1990
page 20 

NFL creates two additonal Wild Card teams for playoffs 
NEW YORK (AP) -The NFL decided Thursday to add two more wild-card teams to its playoffs, a move designed to bring in more television money and streamline a complex tiebreaking system. 
The dramatic change in the playoff system, which begins next season, was announced at the same time the NFL reached agreement with ABC on a new contract that will net the league 
close to  $1  billion  over  four  
years.  
The  playoff  change  now  

means that 12 of the 28 teams will make it to the postseason. 
Network sources said the two new playoff teams were added in the paekage after ABC de­manded something extra in ad­dition to Monday night games and one Super Bowl for the price, estimated at slightly more than $900 million. 
The NFL already has reached agreement on cable contracts with ESPN and TBS for $450 million each. meaning it already has nearly $2 billion worth of contracts while negotiations with NBC and CBS continue. 
"Additional television revenue was an obvious factor," NFL spokesman Joe Browne said. 
"But many clubs had also ex­pressed interest in adding play­off teams. Some suggested we break all ties with games on wild-card weekends. This ac­complishes the goal of adding new teams without diminishing the importance of regular-sea­son play." 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said of the new format: 
"We expect the two new first­round playoff games to create added competition and excite­ment around the league." 
The move comes a week after another groundbreaking rev­enue-producing step -the ex­pansion of the season to 17 weeks in 1990 and 18 weeks the year after. 
Under that change, each team will get one week off next year and two weeks off in the following years, with the extra week between the championship games and Super Bowl elimi­nated for 1990. 
But while each team will con­tinue to play 16 regular-season games, the networks will get additonal weeks of NFL foot­ball, meaning more advertising revenue for television and more money for the NFL. 
The new agreement with ABC nearly doubles the network's payments-from $120 million a year under the old agreement to $225 million under the new one. It also nearly ensures that the basic over-the-air format will remain the same -with CBS and NBC carrying Sunday games. 
"This expanded agreement with ABC Sports indicates our satisfaction with their award­winning presentation to viewers for two decades," Tagliabue said. "ABC's NFL Monday Night Football pioneered sports as a prime-time series and it has enjoyed overwhelm­ing success, which, we believe, can only improve." 
Under the new playoff for­mat, which is expected to be ratified without much diissent at their meetings in two weeks, only the two division champions with the best record in each conference will draw a bye in the first week of the playoffs. The third champion would be home to the wild-card team with the worst record, while the wild-card team with the best mark would be home to the team with the second-best. 
Two games would be played on Saturday, both televised by ABC; two on Sunday, with NBC and CBS each doing one ­assuming that they retain the rights to games. 
If the new playoff system were in effect last season, the two additional playoff teams would have been Green Bay (10­
6) in the NFC and Kansas City (8-7 -1) in the AFC. The Packers would have played Minnesota, a team in their own division, in the first round, while the Chiefs would have met Buffalo. 
Normally teams in the same division don't meet until the conference championship although they can in the wild­card round, as Houston and Pittsburgh did last season. But Browne said that detail would be worked out later. 
The new format also would theoretically allow four teams from one division to qualify. 
Browne said that even with 12 teams in the playoffs, the NFL would still have fewer playoff qualifiers than any ma­jor sport but baseball, where only the winners of the four di­visions qualify. In the NBA, 16 of the 27 teams make it; in the NHL, it's 16 of 21. 
Browne also pointed out that in all but two seasons since the 16-game format was instituted in 1978, would a team with less than a winning record have made the playofTs, even with six qualifiers from each confer­ence. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 

Not only will the Irish offense need to click, but the defense has to hold down the Tigers, averaging nearly 88 points a game, and led by junior for­ward Doug Smith, who is aver­aging 19.7 points and nine re­bounds per game. 
"I think we know their strengths as far as what Smith is," Phelps said. "He's strong and physical. He goes inside and outside. With Smith so strong inside, you've got to be concerned with how you front him, or play behind him, or do you double down on him? When 
t 
he goes outside, he not only shoots it in transition, but he's in good position going to the post step-out to shoot the ball." 
Smith teams up in the for­ward spot with senior Nathan Buntin, who is averaging 14.9 points and 9.8 boards per game. 
"Buntin inside is another very physical player, so they have the type of firepower inside that can score," Phelps said. 
Taking on the Missouri big men will be Notre Dame's strength, the inside play of Keith Robinson, who may be slowed by a foot injury. and LaPhonso Ellis. Robinson scored 26 Wednesday in a los-
Ed. The Groove Doors open 9 
Sat 
Misfits in Disguise 
(10-11) 
DJ's 
(11-2) 

ing cause against Dayton. 
"He's been bothered," Phelps said. "He won't practice today. He played well offensively last night, but he was hampered getting down the floor." 
Ellis is the team leader in scoring and rebounding with 
14.9 points and 12.8 rebounds per game. 
Irish backcourt. Fredrick is av­eraging 13.4 points per game, and Singleton, who lost his job to Bennett and his scoring punch, leads the team with 120 assists. 
Missouri's three-guard of­fense features 6-4 sophomore Anthony Peeler, second on the Tigers with a 17.5 scoring av­
If Bennett isn't ready, then erage and the team leader with 
junior point guard Tim six assists per game, and 6-5 Singleton will join senior co­senior John Mcintyre. Coming captain Joe Fredrick in the off the bench is 6-1 senior Lee 
I~-------------------------,I
I \0 DAy·s HE A.\)\\NEs I 
i I 0~ !!~~ ~----!I 
I "our~•c1usw•1'1 ~----~~ 
I ~-''' p;/V , :· II
I · --. I
I THE NAIL STUDIO '· I 
There are 1 veriety of techniques that our nail artists have been II trained to perform including art work and coodltion1ng ol your 1I nails. II you have had poor results in the past elsewhere. why not 
try The Stud10? Come 1n tor a tree evatuat1oh of any nail problem. II We have • 30-d•y guarantee 1I • Soter N•lla • Repaors • Manocures by Jecc1ca I1 •Fill-Ina • 1~K Nail Jewelry • Whirlpool Pedocures· 
I I1 For a set of full sculptured nails 1 
I Re~~~ ~FF$30 The Castle I 
1
I For Students 
272•8471

I Bring !n this ad Sl Rd. 23 at Ironwood Suite 1A I I By appointment only Convenient Psrking I I Expires 3/31/90 The Caatle 2n-0312 1 
·--------------------------· 
SEDUCTION. ROMANCE. MURDER. THE THINGS ONE DOES FOR lOVE. 
NICOLAS CAGE 

Coward, recovering from a broken hand. Coward seored 10 points in his first game baek Wednesday against Kansas State. 
"Coward is a very aggressive defensive player who can put pressure on anybody, whether it's your point guard or your best scoring guard," Phelps said. "I think that's his role and he does it very well, yet it's obvious he can score points." 
The Irish face Missouri, Kentucky and DePaul to wrap up the season, and if the Irish are even on the fence to get into the NCAA Tournament, they can't lose another game. 

Jo n P. O'Ma ey 
Sales Representative New Mt~mberships or Transfers 
llLIIOti·IIDIUA 
Auto & Property Insurance
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWJI.KA, INDIANA 46545 219/277'-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Pleas•~ ask for John o·-·-·· 

US/USSR 
STUDENT 'JVORK PROJECTS SUMIMER 1990 
NICARAGUA July 22 ·· August 20, 1990 
MEXICO July 26 ·· August 20, 1990 
Volunteer work on housing for refugees in Nicaragua and with the Otomi Indians in Mexico. For undergraduate and graduate students who are serious about helping others while learning and working in a multi-cultural environm1mt. Spanish or Russian language and international studie'S or experience would be helpful, but are not required for acceptance. These projects are sponsored by Cooper House, Inc. in cooperation with the Soviet Peace Fund in Moscow and the Office of International Development at Virr,rinia Tech, the 
Evangelico Pro-A}ruda at Desarrollo in Nicaragua, 
Servicio de Educ.acion de Adultos in Mexico. The cost for the pror,rram in Nicaragua is $ 1,295.00. The cost for the program in Mexico is $ 895.00. 
Stephen Darr Cooper House, Inc. 305 Washington St., S.W., Blacksburg, VIrginia 24060 703·552-2473 
At the University of Notre Dame: 
Debt:>rah Spencer 287-7025 
AMPIRE'S 
K I S S 

MARIA CONCHITA .JENNIFER ,\MI ELIZAIJETH 
ALONSO BEALS ASHLEY 
JOHN DALY • DEREK GIBSO\ utr t HE\1DALE FILM CORPORATION 1MAGELLAN PICTURES"*"' \ICOL-\S CAGE + "VAMPIRE'S KISS" MARIA CONCHITA ALO~SO JES\IFER BE\LS,. ELIZ.\BETH ASHLEY¥ 111111~ JOSEPH MINION ,_~BARRY SHILS ! • BARB.-\RA ZITWER ': rm.n ROBERT BIERMAN P•wolw ~-~§ 
IRI-:~~~l:":::-1. 00'-~~~ -·--.. -~ ...­
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:30 
....__ 


----------------~~------------------------· 
Friday, March 2, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Point shaving charges cast shadow on Valvano's future 
RALEIGH. N.C. (APl -Coach Jim Valvano·'s future depends on the outcome of allegations that some members of the 1987-88 basketball team shaved points in as many as four games, North Carolina State officials said Thursday. 
Acting chancellor Larry K. Monteith said the basketball program is still under a review that began nearly a year ago and has already forced Valvano to give up his job as athletic di­rector. 
"Everything is relevant to that review," Monteith said. "Obviously, I don't have the cir­cumstances at the moment to ask him to step down. We will make no judgment until the al­legations have been corrobo­rated. 
"During this year, he's cer­tainly done everything we've asked him to live up to his con­tract as basketball coach." 
Monteith also said it is too early to consider the univer­sity's response should the point-shaving allegations prove true. 
ABC News, citing unnamed "inside sources," said Wednes­day night that as many as four Wolfpack players, including Charles Shackleford, now of the New Jersey Nets, conspired to hold down the scores of four games for betting purposes during the 1987-88 season. Shackleford's agent, Sal Di Fazio of Bridgewater, N.J., has said his client never shaved points. 
The network said that one of the games was against Wake Forest on March 6, 1988. State defeated Wake Forest by four points after being favored by 16. 
Valvano, who has coached the Wolfpack since 1980, has said he had no knowledge of alleged point-shaving or otherwise would have reported it. The coach was said to be in New York on Thursday but attempts to reach him through his agent were unsuccessful. 
On Wednesday night he said: ''I'm angry. I'm bitterly disap­pointed, discouraged. But yet I also feel helpless because I'm a spectator right now like every­body e~e because I have no knowledge or idea of what has transpired." 
N.C. State is already on two years' probation for NCAA vio­lations involving the sale of tickets and sneakers. 
On Wednesday, university counsel Becky French said "there is no question" more NCAA rules were violated when Shackleford accepted $65,000 from two men during his sophomore and junior years. 
"His freshman year is still in question," she said. 
ABC said Shackleford was given money by Robert Kramer, the owner of a New Jersey home improvement business, to distribute to the other players. Kramer's lawyer, Gerard Han­lon, has denied that his client was involved in point-shaving. 
Shackleford has admitted ac­cepting the $65,000, some of it from Kramer, but maintains that it was a loan to help repay a debt to a former agent. 
Kramer has admitted loaning Shackleford $5,000 to $6,000 when he was at N.C. State and an additional $14,000 to $15,000 after the player left school in 1988 following his ju­nior season. 
N.C. State and the NCAA are still asking questions about when exactly the two began ex­changing money. 
"That's our interest -how that relationship began, how long it occurred, and whether any of these individuals are connected with the institution in any way," Dave Didion, an NCAA enforcement representa­tive, said. 
Only forstudent American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest -exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six 
-weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES IDWARDS FREE TRAVEL­


when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. Just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. • 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
.. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges"' 
1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call!-800-942-AMEX. ©!990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
page 22 The Observer Friday, March 2, 1990 
Women's ski team places sixth in Midwest Regional Championships 
Although  LaCrosse,St Olaf's and  very tough competition.  two weekends ago. The  
skiing may not be ready Mike Kamradt  Minnesota. "It was a really great  "I was pretty satisfied with my runs," said Reich." but a  women's team finished first in the team competition  
to take over  finish for us because of the  few mistakes cost a lot of  defeating Miami  
football or Club Corner  caliber of the schools in the  time and with the short  (Ohio},Purdue,Wisconsin,and  
basketball as  race," explained senior Mary  course there was no room  Eastern Michigan. Club  
America's  Beth Skendzel." It's a great  for mistakes."  president Jenene Niedzwiecki  
favorite spectator sport,  for the future because of our  Ski enthusiasts can rest  took first in the vault while  
there is a great deal of  youth."  team came up with an  Mary Malone took third  
excitement in an alpine race.  Skendzel led the Irish as  outstanding third place  place in the all-around  
Who can forget Bill  she tore down the the two  finish with Tim Sullivan, Jose  competition.  
Johnson's dramatic run in  runs in the slalom to a fifth  Martinez, and Tyler Moore  The Notre Dame men's  
the 1984 Olympics to steal  place finish. That, combined  showing ex em pI a r y  ~ate Julie L~onard checked  
the gold metal from the  with an 18th overall in the  performances.  I~ at ~hir~. Je~ene  
more renowned European  giant slalom, was enough to  "It was definitely a  Nt.edz_wecki. fimshed with a  
skiiers. For the Notre Dame  earn her a trophy as an All- fantastic meet," stated  third m the vault.  
women's ski team, last  American skiier for being  Niedzwiecki." especially for  "It was our best meet of  
weekend brought that kind  among the top 12 finishers.  the men."  the season," commented  
of excitement.  Jo Jo Gehl came in on the  The following weekend the  Niedzwiecki.  
"It was definitely the  heels of Skendzel at 6th in  women's team finished  The Irish may have been  
highlight of our year,"  the slalom. Beth Mcintosh  second at the Conference  able to come out on top if  
commented first year skiier  and Mary Schultz were the  Championships behind the  not for an injury to Katie  
Amy Petersen. "It was very  next two Irish racers to  host team of Miami of Ohio.  O'Shea in warm ups.  
exciting."  cross the finish line. In the  Mary Malone shined once  However, senior vice- 
The team competed in the  giant slalom, Gehl checked in  again with a second on the  president Cindy Sandfort  
M i d west R e g i o n  with a 26th place while Beth  balance beam while team- stepped and did more than  
Championships in Welsh  Mcintosh and Amy Petersen  assured that Reich a veteran  simp I y fi II in.  
Village Minnesota and took  turned in good performances  of 17 years on the slopes,  She reacted really well,"  
home a 6th place out of the  as well.  will be back to lead the  said Niedzwiecki. " She  
15 teams competing. The  Bob Reich, who went as an  Notre Dame men next year.  hasn't competed that much,  
Irish had to ski against a  individual for the Irish men.s  The Notre Dame-Saint  but she did great."  
number of varsity clubs  team enjoyed a 19th in the  Mary's gymnastics club  The "Battle of Route 31"  
including the top three of  slalom and a 16th in the  hosted the fourth Annual  was waged between the  
University of Wisconsin- giant slalom against some  Clover Classic Invitational  women's track teams of St.  

and show everybody how life without the pressure of col­"I know I've let a lot of wrong they are." legiate basketball. people down and I've let myself 
Fredrick 

Even if things don't work out "Those are the people I've down," Fredrick said. "I wish I 
continued from page 24 

in the last three games, known forever and they know I had another year after a 
off the mark. It's been a Fredrick should have a bright haven't changed a bit since I disappointing season. If I had disappointing season for ev­future. A potential professional came here," Fredrick said. "If I played well I could deal with eryone. You try to block out career is on the horizon, and he get 25 or 5 points, people back that. I've got to prove it to what people say, but you still eventually wants to settle down home treat me the same." myself. I just never thought it hear it." in Cincinnati, where fellow co­would be like this." 
What Fredrick has definitely captain Jamere Jackson took a Bur for now the future can heard is the cheers turn to job with Proctor and Gamble. wait. Missouri will bring its No. boos, especially for Notre Fredrick gets a hero's wel­3 ranking into the Joyce ACC Mary's and Notre Dame last weekend with the Irish women coming out on top. Amy "Blazer" Blaising won the 3000m with a time of 
10:47. That same weekend, Terese LeManski and Jenny Led rick raced in the primarily men's Alez Wilson meet at Loftus. The two ran in the 3000m against top women runners from some of the premier squads in the country. 
"It was really a big thing to be invited," commented club president IJiana Bradley." 
The weekend before, a trimmed down team due to JPW went to the Indiana Intercollegiates, a varsity meet. Shotputters Karen Harris and Sheila Stewart turned in personal bests while Trisha Joesephson was strong in the long jump and high hurdles. Diana Bradley and Lisa Gorski finished 1-2 in their heat in the BOOm while Amy Blaising ran well in the 3000. 
We need vou. 
A American Heart 
~Association 

'NE'RE FIGHTII\G Fa< 'O.JRUFE 
Dame coach Digger Phelps. come when he returns to Saturday afternoon, and 
Get ready for Spring Break 

"If a company fails, it's easy Cincinnati and his high school Fredrick will have the opportu­to blame the manager and the retired his jersey three weeks nity to at least get a hit, if not 
owner," Fredrick said. "It's ago. It's there that he can enjoy a home run. 
been really unjust. He teaches us and tells us what to do. How is it his fault if people go out and don't do the things he wants us to?" 
What Fredrick needs now is a big, and maybe miraculous, fin­ish. Saturday's game against Missouri will give him the chance to start a strong finish. 
"Joe has to pull a Kirk Gibson," Phelps said. "You struggle a lot, but sooner or later, you're going to hit the home run." 
Fredrick knows the count is two strikes and two outs in the ninth inning. 
"It was do or die against Dayton," he said. "We lost the do and now it's down to die. It's at the point now where I just want to get in the tourney 
• 

FREE TANNING 

TOM with every Purchase! 
FOR A VERY UMITED TIME!

HALLIGAN (WITH THIS AD) FOR DETAILS .•. 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ...
HAPPY 
272·7653
BIRTHDAY TO MY BABY BROTHER! 
.····~~~lit)
•
:·: s..-'·,: 
~-·-
I..,IIN,AM.INC 

University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln.
LOOOVE CATHY 

Think big • 
I'm thinking. Send mr <1 free copy of the Summer Session '90 catalog with
Our intensives in chemistry, physics, math, and languages 
financial aid and rtogistrafion infomJation (available in April).
draw students from all over the country. 
Please send the catalog to • 0 my home. 0 my school. Calll·ROO·FINDS NU (in Illinois, call7081491-4114) or mail this coupon. ~ummer Session '90, 200.1 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois (lll208·2650 

~--------------------­
Friday, March 2. 1990 The Observer page 23 
lECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
~ Sophomore Literary Festival: Kolisch 11World's Fastest Hypnotist.. ~ 
~ I ~ 
~ Herbert Mason 1l'U~~[ll1]' March 7, 7:00 and 9:00pm, Washington Hall ~ 
~ Translator of GILGAMESH $~!1~$~ Tickets on sale NOW@ LaFortune Info Desk ~ 
~ TONIGHT, 7:30pm $2.00 for students, $3.00 for non-students ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Hesburgh Library Auditorium ~ 
-. 
~ ~ St. Paul and the Martyrs March 22 and 23, 8:00pm ~ ~ 
~ OO(Q)VITJES Cushing Auditorium Washington Hall i 
~ 8:00 and 10:15,$2.00 ~ ~ . Tickets on sale MONDAY @ LaFortune Info Desk ~ .. ~ Fnday: Ghostbusters II All proceeds go to St. Hedwig's Outreach Center ~ ~ 
~ Saturday: Dangerous Liasons and South Bend Women's Care Center ~ ~ 
~ ~----~
.& 
Friday 
12 p.m.-Lecture, "Europe: A Continent in Turmoil," 
R.T. Hon Shirley Williams, Harvard University. Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Commit­tee for European Studies. 
12 p.m.-Humanities Colloquium, "Cicero on the Tasks and Modes of Philosophy," Walter Nicgorski, Program of Liberal Studies. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Commit­tee on Critical and Continental Thought. 
3:30 p.m.-Lecture, "Science Courts and the Myth of Substantive Rationality," Prof. Shelia Jasanoff, Cornell University. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Reilly Center Undergraduate Lectures in Science, Technology and Val­
ues. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Broiled Scrod Veg Lasagna Chili Cheese Macaroni Fish Bunwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATTERSON  
~ ~ I''lt Gm fl. GRE/>.i 'NORD AA\) IT's Ot-l 1\"{X)I.)Q\.£ ~ ~·~x!  If \S $0 ~ ~! \T'S b. WORt~\ fOO~t> \t-1. Kt't4 G'JI~! ~~O~t ~1\\AT!  


~~ 
~ 
-::::-t::+:-'+:=-1 1 o More agile -=::+.::+::-~ 11 Role for Geiger? .:..;..L:...L.:..~ 12 Writer LOO!' 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"OK, Frank, that's enough. I'm sure the Jeffersons are quite amazed at your car headlight device." 

13 Drift 32 Kilt feature 
18 Birds of merit? 36 Retreats 37 Ramble 
22"-Love," Porter song 40 Still 
41 Rainbow trouts, informally 
231ntended 
24 Modify 
43 Lambda 25 Hilarious Mister followers Bell? 
45 Cause for a suit 27 Whitney's 
47 Soho scuttlebutt factory? 
49 Ron Perlman 30 Flight member title role 
SPELUNKER 

. 
~ 

• 
50Zhou-of China 52 Courtroom 
doorkeeper 55 Lack, in brief 57 Frogs' cousins 60 Org. started by 
J. Low 61 December 24, e.g. 62 "Oedipus-," Sophocles play 
63 Nickname for Stallone 
JAY HOSLER 

ACROSS 
1 Baltimore chops 5Addis-, Ethiopian capital 10 "Get lost, 
Morris!" 14 Jacob's twin 15 Seat in a bay 
window 16 Corn bread 17 Goodyear 
orchestra? 19 Wreck 20 Tough trip 21 Throw one's 
-the ring (run) 23 A dry Burgundy 26 Gone by 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Do over, as a roof 29 Gives someone a lift 31 Unchaste 33 Finally 34 Type of crocodile 35 "Treasure Island" auth. 38 Entertainer Carter 39 Evangelist McPherson 41 Scrap 42 Cycle starter 43 Fashion item 44 Brightest star in Aquila 46 Of a nerve 

48-del Fuego 49 Set off 51 Actor Gulager 53 Blair of "Marty" 54 Coat, in a way 56 Blind, in falconry 58 "Woe is me!" 59 Lofty Wright 
Brothers? 64 Labor leader Conboy: 

1870-1928 65 Place for a VCR 66 First name in 
daredeviltry 67 Antimacassar 68 Machine parts 69 Risque 
DOWN 

1 "Ringson­fingers. " 2 lnst. at Ames 3 Check 4 Accountant's partial sum 5 Seaport in Israel 6 Rum cake 7 Heavenly Altar aGeniality 9 Star in "The Four Seasons" 

Sports
page 24 

Irish to meet biggest challenge in Missouri 

TheCllseMlr/E.G.Bailey 
Notre Dame's 1989-90 season hasn't turned out quite the way Joe Fredrick and his teammates expected. The Irish have a chance to alleviate some of the pain on Saturday when they face third-ranked Missouri . 
Captain Fredrick reflects on troubled senior cam_paign 
...... 
B GREG GUFFEY 
A!sistant Sports Editor 

There was Notre Dame men's basketball co-captain Joe Fredrick sitting in the middle of the Irish bench Wednesday at Dayton, watching the Flyers roll to a 97-79 victory, suffering through the low point of his collegiate career. 
Fredrick wanted this night to be special. It was his final appearance in Dayton, a short drive from his Cincinnati hometown. It was his chance to shine against players he has known for years. 
But this night ended in the nightmare fashion that has characterized Fredrick's se­nior season. He scored just six points as the Irish lost 
Dayton no match for Irish women 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 

And here's to you, Ms. Hobinson. 
Dustin Hoffman wasn't there, but with an audience of 782 fans and the cameras rolling last night at the Joyce ACC, Notre Dame's Karen Hobinson did what she's been doing well all season long: she sunk the crucial basket. Uncharacteristically, however, this time the critical shot was for herself. With the Irish up against Dayton 64-41, the ju­nior guard made her 1OOOth career point. 
"I wasn't really thinking about it," said Hobinson, who reached the 1000 point plateau at the charity stripe, a televi­sion camera staring her in the face. 
"I knew I was close but I had no idea it was that free throw until afterwards." 
Entering the game with 980 points, Hobinson did not per-
their third consecutive game and 11th in 25 tries this year. 
"People remember the Dayton-Notre Dame game back home," Fredrick said. "People in Dayton live to beat Notre Dame. They'll be able to say they beat me in my last game there. 
"A lot of people wanted me to go to Notre Dame, but Dayton was one of the schools that wanted me. That was for bragging rights. It just really hurts. It's been up and down all year, but that was by far the lowest. But that's life. It's not always going to be up." 
And it hasn't been up for Fredrick and the Irish this season. The loss at Dayton dropped them to 14-11 with games left against Missouri, Kentucky and De Paul. 
form in the 76-47 Notre Dame 
victory like a player with a 
record on her mind. Instead the 
Irish captain took charge of the 
contest at the decisive moment 
and once again keyed the win. 
"I think Karen played one of 
her best games all year," said 
Notre Dame head coach Muffet 
McGraw, who for the third time 
in as many years attained her 
20th victory. "When we were 
losing, she really took charge 
and said, 'I'm going to score.' " 
Dayton gave the Irish some 
trouble at the beginning of the 
game. The Flyers, who fell to 
11-15, came out dominating the 
offensive boards and sinking 
their outside shots. Midway 
through the first half, they led 
13-11 and 15-13, when sud­
denly Hobinson took control of 
the game. 

Driving the lane to tie it up, Robinson then exhibited superb eyesight in spotting teammate Krissi Davis coming out of -nowhere. Her pass to the 5-9 forward underneath surprised everyone but Davis, who sunk 
NO win could impress tourney voters 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's basketball team has played a tough schedule this season, but the toughest opponent of them all may enter the Joyce ACC Saturday. The Missouri Tigers, 26-3 and recently crowned Big Eight champi­ons, take a break from con­ference play to be the last great hope for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame (14-11) needs a win to keep any shred of a chance at entering the NCAA Tournament alive. 
"As we said before we went into Syracuse," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said, "we needed a big win and we got it. I think it's obvious a win over Missouri will do a lot for us here at Notre Dame." 
Of primary concern for Notre Dame is the condition of sparkplug Elmer Bennett, who has been suffering from the flu. He is averaging 10.3 points per game, but has been steadily raising that to­tal since being inserted into the starting lineup. 
.Th~se thre~ game w~ll de­c1de If Frednck plays m the NCAA Tournament for the fourth consecutive year. 
"I still think we can get in if we win the next three," Fredrick said. "You can't do anything about the record. You're 14-11 and that's it. You can only do something about the future." 
Fredrick's future looked bright heading into his se­nior season. He averaged 
16.7 points as a junior and was a star on a team with no seniors. 1989-90 was the can't-miss year, the year when everything would come together for the Irish bas­ketball program. 
But something went wrong on the way to paradise for Fredrick and the Irish. They lost sophomore LaPhonso Ellis to academic ineligibility 
the layup to put Notre Dame ahead for good, 17-15. 
From there, Hobinson scored 
four of the next five baskets as 
the Irish went on a 12-4 run. 

"I think at that point they started to go cold," said McGraw. "We ran better and started rebounding." 
Flyers head coach Sue Hamsey agreed. 
"I think we just got intimi­dated," said Hamsey of her squad, who dropped to 7-8 in the MCC. "We were doing some things we needed to do in the first half, getting the offensive rebounds and scoring from the paint. But when you play well and go into the lockerroom losing by 15, it gets frustrat­ing." 
A revived Notre Dame led 34­21 at half. Davis deserves credit for the turnaround as well, finishing with 16 points and 16 rebounds, her seventh double-double of the year. 
"Davis was in all the right 
see DAYTONI page 16 
"He's in the infirmary to­day," Phelps said. "He 'II come over to watch films and to see what we go through. I don't know how much we'll get out of him in practice. It hurts us, not having that scoring punch." 
The Irish have shown streaks of brilliance against their last three opponents, only to let the game plan, and the game, slip away. 
"I think we've been in a good situation with the game plans," Phelps said. "It comes down to execution in the second half and we need to do things the right way. We lose concentratinn <mrl do the things we're not sup­posed to do, not the things that get us the points. 
'We prepare and go over the right situations, and it's obvious you have to do that in a game," Phelps said, "Somehow, there's not a carryover from practice into the games." 
Not only will the Irish of­fense need to click, but the defense has to hold down the Tigers, averaging nearly 88 
see HOOPS I page 20 
for the fi_rst semester, dropped their first four road games and have never really recovered. 
Fredrick shot just 44 per­cent in the first five games, but has raised that mark to 52 percent. He is averaging 
13.7 points per game, but has only two 20-point games compared to 13 last season. 
What is most difficult for Fredrick is not coming through at crucial times, especially when he had a one-and-one that could have put the Irish in the comfort zone late in the game against Georgia Tech. 
"J just don't know what it is,~ Fredrick said. "Before the season, we'd go through the schedule and we thought a 23-5 season wouldn't be 
see FREDRICK/ page 22 
.....; 
,.;I 
' ~; 
Karen Robinson (20) and the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Dayton Thursday night to remain undefeated in MCC play. 
Friday, March 2, 1990 
Championships on line as Bengal Bouts near finish 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

Jody Armetta. fresh off his split decision upset of defending 154-pound champion David "Sugar" Cane, will try to defeat fellow sophomore Colin Mullaney tonight in the north dome of the Joyce ACC as the final round of the 60th annual Bengal Bouts gets underway at 8 p.m. Friday night. 
"He (Mullaney) should have a nice jab," said Armetta. "He beat a good fighter (in the semifinals), so it looks like it is going to be a good light." 
Super heavyweights Dave Prinzivalli and Brian Shannon will get under way tonight in the lone fight of the 255-pound division. Prinzivalli, who real­izes that two-time champion Shannon will be hard to beat, has tried to get some extra training under his belt by working out with the wrestling team. 
"Shannon has won the last two years and he's a good ath­lete. I've watched him in the past and he can hit pretty hard. I'll just go out there and hope for the best," said Prinzivalli. 
Two-time champ Doug Biolchini will enter the ring once again with 10 stitches in his chin as he fights Lee Whitman for the 144-p~und crown. Biolchini suffered a cut to his chin in his quarterfinal victory over John Padgett on Sunday, and managed to defeat a stubborn Matt Potts in the semifinals Wednesday with a strong third round. 
"There's no way it will impair my boxing ability," said Biolchini, who taped gauze to his chin for his fight with Potts. "It's just a cut under my skin." 
The 185-pound fight features two strong punchers as defend­ing champ Ricky Purcell will go head to head with Hobert Urban. Purcell and Urban both forced the referees to stop their fights early by pummeling their opponents early and often. 
...,.. ··­
.....
-· 

The ClJ5eMlr I John CkJ\191" 





