

r-
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19,1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SE , OTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Shirt brings fame, fortune for seniors 
By SARAH VOIGT 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame finance majors havn proven that a suc­cessful entrepreneurial venture requires neither an original idea nor lots of initial capital. Cleverness. initiative and an emotionally charged football rivalry has been the winning combination for Victor Bierman and Alan Sorce with their controversial "Catholics vs. Convicts Ill" T-shirt business. 
Seniors Bierman and Sorce have not grossnd over $100,000 in T-shirt sales overnight. But close to it. The pair copyrighted the entire "Catholics vs. Con­victs Ill" T-shirt design in early July 1990. They formed their own company called Power Base Management Inc. in early August. 
They have sold over 14,000 T­shirts in less than three months. 
The secret of their success, however, seems not to be their quick action but rather their carefully planned and executed sales strategy. In order to avoid IPgal action, the pair made surn that the T-shirt slogan made no specific mention of nither the University of Notre Dame or the University of Miami. 
The back of the T-shirts says "Thn Final War. October 20, IIJIJO. Take no prisoners." 
"Since we made no use of Notre Dame or its logo, we didn't nned the permission of tht\ University," Bierman The only requirnment is that we don't solicit or sell the shirts on campus." 
The entreprennurs have not let his stipulation present a stumbling block. Instead of snlling the merchandise on 
ScHEDULE OF EVENTS • Miami Weekend 1990 • 
Friday 

3 p.m. Campus tour departing from the statue of Our Lady, Main Gate 
3 p.m. to Pep rally Pre-Pep rally gathering, Morris Inn Patio 
4:30 
p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, from Washington Hall, and steps of Main Building to Green Field 

4:30 
p.m. Glee club, open rehearsal, Crowley Hall, 


Hoom 115 7 p.m. Pep rally, Joyce ACC, Gate 10 
Saturday 

8:30 a.m.· game time ND & SMC alumni & friends 
are Invited to Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC, Gates 2 &3 9 a.m. Band Rehearsal, Cartier Field 
9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous, Center for Social Concerns 
11 :30 a.m. Porn Porn Squad performance, JACC North Dome Noon Porn Porn Squad & Cheerleading performance, in 
front of Bookstore Noon Glee Club concert, JACC North Dome 
12:30 a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC North 
Dome 1 p.m. Band concert, Main building steps 
1:45 p.m. Band steps-off 
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Miami, Stadium After the game ND/SMC all-class reunion, JACC North Dome Gates 2 &3 After the game All alumni are invited to a reception in 
the Law School, Law College (at main entrance) 7 p.m. Mass, Crypt 7 p.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church campus, they decided to dis­tribute the shirts to twenty-four retailers near campus. They have sold the shirts to gas stations, hotels, bars and restaurants at wholesale prices. 
"We just can't keep these places stocked. Some gas sta­tions sell fifty shirts per day," said Sorce. 
Bierman, who handles pro­duction forecasts, said that they maintain enough inventory to give the retailers same or next day delivery. 
On game days the pair also sell the shirts from the back of a trailer on the corner of Edison and Ivy Roads. This strategic location is about as close to campus as they can get. 
Sorce organizes the vigorous advertising and promotion campaigns. Locally, he runs regular advertisements in The Observer and distributes fliers in publication inserts to hotels. 
Nationally, Sorce advertises in Blue and Gold Illustrated, an independent newspaper about Notre Dame sports with a sub­scription of 32,000. The pair also runs a national mail order campaign out of a South Bend residence. 
"The publicity has really taken off since our story has hit the AP wire. We've been in the South Bend Tribune, the In­diana Star and National Sports Daily," Sorce said. 
The pair conceived this prof­itable idea while golfing last June in summer school. They decided to copyright the slogan and launch a marketing and sales campaign. 
Although the "Catholics vs. Convicts" slogan first debuted on campus two years ago, 
see SHIRT I page 4 
-
Nice shirt! 

Eric Eschinger, facing forward, and Doug Descalzi, :ovear "Th~ Caus_e"_T-shirts commemorating the final ND vs. Miami football game, with sales proceeds gomg to acc1dent v1ct1m Zhang-de Wang. 
Professor heads national theology society 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR News Writer 
Theology asks questions about what it means to believe and where the goodness and beauty of life can be discovered, according to Keith Egan, chairman of religious studies at Saint Mary's. 
This summer Egan was elected national president of the College Theology Society. 
The society is comprised of theology and religion professors from all over North America who are interested in "having better programs to connect theology with contemporary life for their students," Egan stated. 
Theologians extract the "big questions" that people should be asking and help their students find answers, Egan said. He said that he too learns by engaging in dialogue with students. 
The society includes an ex­change of ideas between col­

Hesburgh's autobiography released at ND 
Special to the Observer 

Advance copies of "God, Country, Notre Dame," the au­tobiography of Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the University, are now available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The book, published by Dou­bleday and going on sale na­tionally next month, covers Hesburgh's life from his boy­hood in Syracuse, N.Y., to his retirement in 1987 after 35 years as president of the Uni­versity. 
Chapters cover such broad areas as the "student revolu­tion" of the late 1960s and early 1970s, the country's fight for civil rights legislation and the University's struggles with curial officials over academic freedom issues, as well as more personal chapters on the au­thor's lifelong fascination with aviation and his well-traveled daily masses. 
Several photographs covering Hesburgh's career are included. The book is dedicated to Rev. Edmund Joyce, who served as executive vice president during the Hesburgh presidency, and Helen Rosinski, who recently retired after 38 years as Res­burgh's secretary. 
Written with Chicago alumnus Jerry Reedy, "God, Country. Notre Dame" is the first of two Hesburgh books to be brought out by the New York City pub­lishing firm. Hesburgh is now at work editing his travel mem­oirs, highlighted by the year's 
Keith Egan 

leagues that increases the value of 'student-teacher communica­tion in the classroom. 
Egan's involvement in the society began when a Mar­quette University teacher asked him to be a representative. Vice presidency followed until he was invited by the board to run for president. 
As leader of the society, members look to Egan for re­actions to current issues. Egan sabbatical following his retire­ment, much of it spent touring the western United States in a recreational vHhicle. 
He now works out of a lies­burgh Library office and con­centrates his time on University institutes, wrote two other books in the second half of his presidency-"The Humane Im­perative," published by the Yale University Press in 1974, and "The llesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education," published by Andrews and McMeellnc., in 1979. 
Have a great vacation! 
This is the last Observer until after break. The next issue will 
be published Oct. 30. 
organizes responses and keeps members informed of upcoming events in his quarterly newslet­ter. 
The society meets at differ­ent colleges for their annual convention held at Loyola in New Orleans this year. Lectures and workshops are held to promote effective teaching, scholarly exchange, research and publications among pro­fessors of theology and religious studies. 
Egan identified one of the biggest goals of the society as "to promote undergraduate students to give consideration to the theology profession. There is a big need for women in this field. Their experiences enrich the Church and female students have a special wisdom that contributes a lot to the profession." 
He hopes that students he 
see EGAN I page 4 



page 2· · 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The ND posse puts the 'rap' on the Canes 
Ahh, the grandeur of it all. ND vs. Mi­ami: The Final Bat­tle-The Big Game­The Ultimate Test­The Most Important Game In History­make that The Most Important EVENT In History. Forget the John O'Brien budget crisis, forget Managing Editor Kuwait, forget even a condom-free "U."-this is serious business. 
Forgive me if I appear to be a little caught up in the hype, but with everyone talking about the game-including my nine-month­old niece-1 just had to write another NO­Miami Inside Column. 
However, this is special. As a sign of my support for the team, I composed a little rap song, similar to the "Super Bowl Shuf­fle," to be sung by our team. It's called "The Fightin' Irish are the Team to Fear" and it goes like this: 
(Funky bass line starts here) 
My name's Zorro and I'm king of the "D" To go anywhere you gotta get past me I'm known as a nice guy all 'round this 
place But try to cross me and I'll rip off your 
ace You'll see tomorrow and you'll see all year The Fightin' Irish are the team to fear 
(More bass here-add the sound of high-pitched moaning) 
They call me Rocket and I'm squeaky 
clean I move on the field like a flyin' machine I can catch it. run it, return it, too When the Reisman comes I'll prove it to 
you So spread the word and sound the cheer The Fightin' Irish are the team to fear 
(Yet even more bass here and some digi­tally sampled AC/DC guitar rifts) 
Golden Boy Ricky jammin on the mike I'm the guy who all the press likes They call me Montana, the gun for hire I'm the one they call when it's down to the 
wire Go tell the folks from far and near The Fightin · Irish are the team to fear 
tThe bass kicks out and leaves a mean percussion beat) 
I'm numero uno, the man they call "Lyght" I'm tough as a nail and quick in flight Let 'em try to pass it anywhere near me And I'll come down with the I-N-T So forget about beatin' us in the air The Fightin' Irish are the team to fear 
(the bass returns-lots of percussion, moaning, and other noises-some more mean guitar rifts) 
I'm the King of the hill, I'm DJ Lou And I know just what my posse can do I act all nervous and talk 'em down But I know that they're the best around So listen up, 'Canes, you'd better hear The Fightin' Irish are the team to fear 
A big hit? Well, probably not. But maybe I can make a whole mess of money like the "Catholics Vs. Convicts" guys. Even if I don't, I have proven that you can actually have team spirit while having absolutely no musical talent. At any rate, Go Irish. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Thursday's  Staff  
News Carrie Amann Frank D. Rivera Bradley Galko  Production Melissa Cusack Jeanne Blasi  Accent Brian Grunert Fran Moyer Robyn Simmons  
Sports  Sy~ems  Circulation  
Rich Kurz  Cesar Capella  Bill O'Rourke  
Rolando de Aguiar Paul Froning Rene Ferran  Matt Novak  
Viewpoint  

Denisse Marion-Landai! Becky Pichler 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member oi the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, October 19; 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, October 19. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
A 
tx:x~
® CD rn ~ m ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
LaFortune will be operating on a modified schedule during the break. It will be open Monday through Wednesday from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.' All other cam­pus facilities will be operating as usual. 
Final payments for the U.S.C. football trip are due today in the Student Activities Office, Room 315, LaFortune Student Center. If you have any questions call 239-7308. 
WORLD One of Ferdinand Marcos' lawyers was 
Claude Arpels, who headed the U.S. operations of the Van Cleef and Arpels jewelry frrm, died earlier this week in Switzerland, his family said Thursday. He was 79. No details were disclosed about the cause of death Mon­day Arpels and his two brothers Pierre and Jacques were. the heirs of the business founded' in Paris by their' parents and in-laws. Pierre died 10 years ago, while Jacques is the chief executive. 
The 1.5-million-member Dutch Reformed Church voted Thursday to allow women to become minis­ters and elders. An all-male synod voted 242-137 for the proposal after two hours of debate, the independent South African Press Association reported. Previously, the highest office women could hold in the Protestant church was deacon. The Dutch Reformed Church is the main church of Afrikaners, the Dutch-descended whites who dominate the government. 
NATIONAL 
Donald Trump's proposed debt restructuring for his Taj Mahal casino was rejected by a bondholders' representative, who said a bankruptcy court filing would be preferable to the plan. The restructuring, proposed by two Trump subsidiaries, Trump Taj Mahal Funding Inc. and Trump Taj Mahal Associated LP, would give bond­

holders a nearly 20 percent equity staKe in the Atlantic City casino in return for changes in the terms of $675 million in junk bonds. The plan was outlined in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the fil­ing, Trump said the restructuring proposals "are (the) onlv alternative to bankruptcy." 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
A total of 1 ,085 Indiana public schools will receive $10 million in cash awards for 

Volume in shares

demonstrating improvement in performance dur­
204.12 Million

ing the 1989-90 school year, the state Depa_rt­ment of Education announced Thursday. Superm­tendent of Public Instruction H. Dean Evans said 
61.5 percent of the schools will receive cash 
NVSE Index
awards in the second year of the Indiana School 
167.05 
.. 3.46

Incentive Awards Program. Last year, 51.8 per­
S&P Composite ..&..
cent qualified for awards. Under the program, 
305.74 ir 6.98
created as part of the 1987 "A-Plus" education 
Dow Jones Industrials 
reform package, a school can qualify for a cash 
2,452.72 • 64.85
award by showing improvement in performance. 
Precious Metals 
Gold +$3.40 to $370.1 0/oz. 
Silver+ 0.2¢ to $4.198/oz. 
The NO vs. Miami pep r~lly will be h~ld tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
A memorial mass for former Food Services Director Bill Hickey will be held Oct. 28 at 9 a.m., in the Log Chapel. 
London program applications are now available at the program office, in Room103, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Completed applications are due no later than Oct.31. 
indicted with her husband Thursday on_ ~ha_rges of ~aun­de ring about $2.9 million for the late :h1hppme pre~Ident. Helen Rivilla, a member of Marcos le~al team •? _the United States, and her husband, An.to~IO C. M. RIVIlla, were named in the 39-count federal md1ctment, U.S. At­torney Dan Bent sa1'd. The R'_•villas caused ?I'ght Honolulu financial institutions to fail to file reqmred cur~ency transaction reports with the Internal Revenue Service or to file reports that did not identify Marcos and others, the indictment said. The alleged transactions occurred be­tween June 1987 and September 1988, it said. If con­victed Helen Rivilla faces a maximum penalty of 390 years in prison and a fine of $19.5 million. Her hus~~nd faces a maximum 80-year prison term and a $4 million fine. Marcos died in exile in Honolulu last year, ~early four years after being ousted by a popular revolt m the 
Philippines. 

The state of New York on Thursday shut down one of the largest sludge and oil transport compa­nies in New York Harbor, citing a pattern of abuse of en­vironmental laws. Thomas Jorling, state commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, said the order was the first against an entire fleet of barges since the department was created in 1970. The order comes after one of the barges, operating illegally, sank Sept. 27 at the First Marine Shipyard on Staten Island, spilling 50,000 gallons of oil into the Kill Van Kull between the is­land and New Jersey. That was the latest in a series of unrelated spills that have dumped more than 1 million gallons of petroleum products into the harbor during the 
past year. 

Yesterday's high: 43 Yesterday's low: 39 Nation's high: 97 (Phoenix, Ariz.) 
Nation's low: 11 (Gunnison, Colo.) Forecast: Mostly sunny today with a high ranging from 50 to 
55. Clear tonight with lows ranging from 35 to 
40. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday with the highs near 60. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
-
ALMANAC 
On October 19: 

eln 1765: The Stamp Act Congress, meeting in New York, drew up a declaration of rights and liberties. 
eln 1812: French forces under Napoleon Bonaparte began their retreat from Moscow. 
eln 1987: The stock market crashed as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, amid frenzied selling, plunged 508 points -its worst-ever one-day de­cline. 
eTen years ago: In a paid TV address, Republican presidential nomi­nee Ronald Reagan declared his com­mitment to "lasting world peace" while his Democratic opponent, President Carter, warned in a radio address that Reagan's policies would move the U.S. closer to the "nuclear precipice." 


October 19,1990 ' The Observer 


U.N. club travels to Chicago 
By MEG SHUFF News Writer 
Nirw nwrnlwrs of tlw NI>/SMC MoriPI llnitNI Nations Club will attP rul t IH• Arn I' ri nt n Mod n I llnitPd Nations ConfPrPni"P lwld in Chicago ovPr thP rnid­Sf'fllf'Stl'r hrPak, an·ording to thP dub's co-prPsidPnt Mikf~ 1-'<tf'hnf'r. 
Tlu~ confPI'f'IH'P, which begins on Thursday, will indudP Moclel liN dubs from about 50 otlwr f'.ollPgPs and uniwrsitins. At thn conff'rl'nen. tlw dubs will bf~ simulating actual UN nxperi­PncPs and roiP playing diiTerent countrins. Tlw NI>/SMC dub will n•pn•snnt Canada. 
"ThP confnrPIH'P should be 
Health, benefits stressed at fair 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
Tlw I990 Bnrwfits and Lifnstyles Fair for faculty, stan·. retire1~s and tlwir families will lw lwld Oct. :w to Oct. :{I at tlw .Ioyce AthlPtic and Convocation CPnter concourse. 
Tlw fair will promote a lwalthinr livf'lihood and a grnater awarmwss of the Uni­versity's l'mploynn bf'nnfit pro­grams. Tlw fair "will include dPmonstrations of t~xnrrise programs" as orw mnans of en­couraging lwalthier living. ac­cording to Hogf'r Mullins. direc­tor of thn I>PJHLrtnwnt of Hu­man Ht~sources. 
Mullins also emphasiznd that Lhf'rf' will IH' nducational pre­Sf'ntations on tlw hazards of 

Students unable to register to vote 
By JOHANNA KELLY News Writer 
Tlw local CongrPssional ran' lwtWPPn I>Pmorrat Tim HoPmPr and HPpuhlican .John lliiPr has gPnPratf•d quPslions among NotrP DamP studPnts intPrestPd in voting in tlw Plf'rtion. 
According to Marianne By­hack of tlw city ortire of voter 
Town & Country Shopping Centre 
smoking and alcohol use as well as the importance of nutritional awarnness. 
"The big push" added Mullins "is in screening. We'll do blood pressure, diabetes, pulmonary function and cholesterol screening." 
He also mentioned a com­puter that can compare the user's chronological. or physi­cal, age with his biological age. The screening will be per­formed by St. Joseph's Medical Center, Memorial Hospital and University Health Services. 
Mullins, who expects upwards of 2300 participants in this two­day event, has arranged for representatives from Blue Cross, Blun Shield and Social Sncurity to ofTnr counseling to University employees and re-fun and nnable the group to mnnt a lot of intnn~sting peo­ple," said Faehnnr. "The nxpe­rinnrn will bn invaluable." 
"As Wf~ roln play, wn will lw givnn spnrifir issuns that we will havP to solvP . . . as we think Canada would," said Fanhnnr. "Wp thnn pn)Sf'nt our n~solutions (to tlw group) and try to gf't a consensus." 
Also, tlw club will bn given thn opportunity to expnri1mce 
snrving on  the International  
Court  of  .I ustice  at  t!H~  
confenmce.  

In addition to receiving vari­ous donations. the clu.b has benn selling T-shirts to earn enough rnom)y to attend this 

rngistration. Oet. 9 marked the last day of registration for vot­Pr'i in thn third congressional district. including St. .Joseph's County and the ND campus. Students that vowd at ND in the I!JHH pn~sidential election are still Pligibln to vote in Novmnber. Hybark said. 
Students must be registered 
r---~­

1 ~2. 
: 
I 

I I USED I 1 Expires 11-29-90 I 



I~---------------:
$1.00 OFF I 
:  anytape  :  
NOLIMIT  I  
:  EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS AND  I  
1  USED  I  

in District 3 in order to vote and those students with absentee ballots for their home Con­gressional districts cannot vote in both elections, said Hyback. 
Hyback noted that if students are already registered to vote, they should have received a card specifying when and where they are to vote. 
conference. Attending this con­ference is important as it serves to prepare dub members for a larger conference in New York that sonw will be attending over Easter. said Faehner. 
'The eonfernncn in Nnw York is the granddaddy of all the eonfcnmcns. There will be over 200 schools participating and thn meetings are actually held in the United Nations building," he said. 
Students intnrnsted in joining the dub must attnnd one Jlf the regular bi-monthly meetings and pay their dues, said Faehner. 
The first meeting after break will be held Oct. 29. 
tirees. Hepresentatives from the University's health insurance program, life insurance pro­gram and retirement insurance program will also be present to answer questions. 
Mullins described another computer program that will be available to the fair's partici­pants, "we ean actually project for them what income they can expect and what their income at retirement will be." 
The fair will be sponsored by the Department of Human He­sources with the cooperation of several other University de­partments. Also participating in the event will be the Department of Risk Management and Safety, Secu­rity, Non-Varsity Athletics and University Food Services. 

Foreign support 
Photo courtesy or the students 

Juniors in the NO-London program express their support for the Irish from downtown London. The ND vs. Miami game will be broadcast in Europe by sources such as Armed Forces radio. 
Conference will discuss Latin American politics 
By ALICIA REALE bringing in scholars on demo­
News Writer cratic institutions from around 
the world. 
Latin American political insti­The past decade has sePn an 
tutions will be analyzed at a increasing return to dmnoeracy 
conference entitled "Building in Latin America with many of 
Democratic Institutions: Parti1~s thesf' transitions bning fragiln 
and Party Systems in Latin and many otlwrs being strong, 
America," to be held at Notre Scully said. 
Dame Oct. 21-23. "What we hopn to establish is, 
Jointly sponsored by the Ford through comparisons. what arP 
Foundation and the Kellogg In­the eauses, what contributes to stitute for International Studies, strengthening democratic there are two primary ob­institutions," Scully said. 
jectives of the conference: first, Specialists fron1 many Latin to analyze the nature of build­American countries will be in­ing or rebuilding democratic vited to deliver papers on tlw institutions in Latin America; parties and party systems of and second, to examine the their respective countries. Ex­causes and consequences of dif­perts from the United States ferences in party systems in the and other parts of the world region. will complement these speakers 
Father Timothy Scully and by discussing comparative rnf­Professor Scott Mainwaring, erences in the Unitnd Statns Kellogg Senior Fellows and ND and Europn, aeeording to government professors, have 
see LATIN I page 4 

organized this conference,' 
[@JJ~~~~~ MISSION SUNDAY 
This week-end, Rev. Richard Potthast, C.S.C. will preach at all of th~ 
Masses at Sacred Heart Church and will preside at the ?PM 
Eucharist on Saturday and the SAM Eucharist on Sunday. 
Members of the Holy Cross Associates will reflect on that program at 
the 8, 9:30 and 11 AM masses at Sacred Heart Parish (Crypt 
Church) on Sunday. 
Fr. Potthast serves in Fort Portal Uganda and has spent his entire 
ministerial life in service to the African Church. The Holy Cross 
Associates provide ministerial service to the Church in six of the 
United States and in Chile. 

----------~-----~ -­
page 4 The Observer Friday, October 19, 1990 



Shirt 
continued from page 1 
Bierman claims that the idea has never been done legiti­mately and to this magnitude before. 
Sorce explained, "We wanted to make our senior year differ­ent. We wanted to have a good time. We wanted to turn this town upside down. And, of course, we wanted to make a little money." 
"Make a little money" turned out to be quite an understate­ment. Besides grossing $100,000 in three months, the pair has about fifteen people on their payroll. Bierman ex­plained that the fifteen workers distribute the shirts to the re­tailers and receive sales-based commissions. 
Bierman conceded that a Notre Dame loss to Miami would most likely result in a decline in sales. But the pair has high hopes for the future. 
"We have no qualms about sticking together after gradua­tion. We may end up working for ourselves. We have some more projects in the planning 
stages right now," said Bier· man. 
The pair also does not seem to understand why some mem­bers of the Office of Public Re­lations and Information have voiced their objections about the "Catholics vs. Convicts" slo­gan. 
"I think that it is the general agreement of many administra­tors, teachers and students alike that the shirt is in bad taste," said Dennis Moore, di­rector of Public Relations and Information. "Even though we can't control the shirt's distri­bution, we can still express our opinion that the T-shirt need­lessly slanders both universi­ties." 
Sorce disagreed with Moore's comments.] 
"Who's to say what is bad taste? We don't believe that the shirts are offensive," said Moore. "You can't read too much into the slogan. It merely reflects the opposing personali­ties of the two football teams." 
Controversy may well be Bierman and Sorce's other key to success. The slogan "Catholics vs. Convicts" has spurned a conflict concerning good fun vs. bad taste. 

Egan 
continued from page 1 

teaches realize "how interested society is in letting women find out how vital their role is in theology." 
It is Egan's hope that the College reinstates a theology graduate program for women. 
As a teacher, Egan said that his interest in theology history began "when some exciting teachers made a huge impact" on him in school. 
Even for students in other majors, he strongly believes in "the demand that theology places on people not to be sat­isfied with the superficial and to be truthful." 
"Theology prepares young people to look for ways they fall in love with good things in life. Eventually this leads to falling in love with God," Egan said. 
Egan will serve a two-year term as president of the society. He joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1983, and founded the Center for Spirituality, which presents programming that examines the nature of the spiritual presence in contempo­rary life, at the College in 1985. 
Egan is the religious studies department chair and director of the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's and adjunct pro­fessor of theology at ND. 

Latin 
continued from page 3 

and Europe, according to Scully. Scully hopes two publications will result from the conference. 
"One will be a publication by a major press of all the papers and then we'll have another publication which will be for educational purposes and that will be the smaller volume," he said. 
The sessions will be held in 131 Decio Faculty Hall from Oct. 21 to Oct. 23. 
Notre Dame receives grants for research 
Special to the Observer 

The University of Notre Dame received $724,515 in grants during September for the sup­port of research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $542,830, including: 
-$152,900 from the National Science Foundation for research by Ahsan Dareem, professor of civil engineering, on the dynamic response of structures. 
-$130,000 from the Environmental Protection Agency for clay studies by J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland pro­fessor of science, chemistry and biochemistry. 
-$60,000 from the U.S. Navy for research by Albin Szewczyk, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on bluff body wake flows. 
-$50,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Kenneth Olson, ad­junct professor of biological sciences, on hormone metabolism by fish gills. 
-$49,575 from the Indiana State Board of Health on work by Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences, on the North Central Indiana Regional Genetics Center. 
-$38,000 from Stanford University for research by Scott Mainwaring, associate profes­sor of government and interna­tional studies, on Brazilian party development in compara­tive perspective. 
-$37,800 from the National Science Foundation for work by Peter Diffley, assistant profes­sor of biological sciences, on the Graduate Research Fellowship program. 
-$10,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Michael Stanisic, as­sistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on singularity-free manipulation systems. 
-$7,305 from the National Institutes of Health for research on glycolipid metabolism in tumor and transformed cells by Subhash Basu, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, and Manju Basu, associate faculty fellow in chemistry and biochemistry. 
-$3,500 from the Memorial Foundation of Jewish Culture for research by Mark Meyerson, assistant professor of history, on the Jews of Murviedro. 
-$3,000 from the Newmont Metalurgical Service for re­search by Charles Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biological sciences, on microbial treatment of gold ores. 
-$750 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Mark Meyerson, assistant professor of history, on the Jew of Murviedro. 
Awards for instructional programs totaled $1,200 from the National Endowment for Democracy Inc., for a program on the transition to democracy in Paraguay, administered by Rev. Ernest Bartell, executive director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies and professor of eco­nomics. 
Awards for service programs totaled $64,161, including: 
-$27,000 from the Legal Service Corp. for a Legal Aid and Defender Association grant, administered by Frank Booker, assistant dean of the Law School and professor of law, and Eileen Doran and Barbara Basperetti, both of the Law School. 
-$37,161 from private bene­factors for various programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
-$52,148 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for a summer seminar taught by Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy, on Pascal's Ponsees: Faith, Reason and the Meaning of Life. 
-$53, 376 from the U.S. Department of Education for the Jacob Javits fellowship program, administered by Peter Diffley, assistant professor of biological sciences and assis­tant dean for finance of the Graduate School. 


--~--------------------------------------------------~--------------------------~~ ·------­Friday, October 19, 1990 The Observer page 5 

WITH CLASS!
' ' 
' From your little bro. Justin: 
' 
' 
' 

' ' Since you've been gone, a lot of ' 
' 

' ' 
' stuff has changed: 1 )the phone ' 
' 
' 

' has gone dead; 2)the piano, ' 
' ' 
'

' your room, and car have
' ' 
' 
' collected dust; and 3)no more ' ' 
' 
' 

' older people come over ' 
' 
' 

' anymore. Even though all this ' 
' 
' 

' 
' 

' bad stuff is happening, ' 
' 
' 

' remember if bad stuff starts ' 
' 
' 

' 
' happening there, I'm only a ' 
' 

' 
' phone call away. (The phone ' ' 
' ' 
' ' needs to be used somehow!) ' ' I.Buy 4* sessions at the regula71
' ' I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I
' ' 
1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
' ' 
' ' L.9et 6 FREE GET TI-fE~EA~ 
j

' ' 
' ~ Love, Mom, Dad and Justin ' 
' 
' 

'~''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 





Engineering seminar at ND 
By DAVID ZIRINGER News Writer 
Academia and industry will convergn Monday during "Engineering for a Better World," a one-day seminar hostnd by tlw College of Engi­nnering. 
The seminar hopes to foster "mutually beneficial partner­ships," by nxposing area busi­ness<~s to Notre Dame's technological capabilities, aecording to a ncws rclease. 
There exists a belief "that resnarch at the university lcvel is irrnlevant," said Julie Parsons, research dcvelopment administrator. Through University and industry <'.ooperation, the Col­lege of Engineering hopes to disp1~l that myth. 
Such partnerships "facilitate technological transfer," Par­sons said. "Good ideas are put in usn" by sharing University research with businesses." 
Parsons cited international competition, especially from 
Exxon gives grants to Notre Dame 
Special to the Observer The donation is part of the ployees. 
Exxon's University Departmen­
Exxon Corp. has awarded tal Grants program, a nation­Exxon, its affiliate companies $13,000 in unrestricted grants wide provision of $1.8 million to and the Exxon Education to the NI> Law School and De­more than 100 colleges and Foundation annually give more partm<~nts of Chnmical. Me­universities from which the than $20 million to American chanical, and Civil Engineering. corporation recruits its em-educational institutions. 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE o,\l\'1E 01-fiCE Of THE PROVOST PRESENTS 
ACTORS FROM TilE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASIIINGT()N HALL !.:·:rHORSDAY, 'NOVEMBER 1 ;.·sHAKESPEARE'S,. AS YOU LIKE'IT .~~ERIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT . SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
(:,cc:nes lrom 20th Cl'ntury Irish rh~:ilrl') D~visrd by S;un Dale H:OO pm Tickets·: $10, ~H St·niol Cilizcns, $6 Students 
l1ckcls arc ,1vailahk .tt ihl' dt>t>r or 111 ;tJvance al the 
1al·,,rtllnt· '-,tudc:nl Center "lit ket ( 11111 l' :VIao;tn( ·ard/Visa orders call 239-Hl2H 
Japan, for the necessity of co­operation. Japan's and others' success comes from their turning research "papers into progress," she said. 
But while industry may profit from the ND's research and laboratory facilities, the University also has much at stake. 
Through corporate research sponsorships, the University can "add to the scholarship coffers" and offer students more internships and an overall better education, according to Parsons. 
Twenty-seven businesses will be represented Monday. Such national businesses as Whirlpool will be present, but there w~ll be an emphasis on smaller, more local companies, Parsons said. 
"Smaller companies need as much help as the larger ones," she said, and by focusing on area businesses, the University can "affect the community more." 
During the seminar each business representative will attend four of eleven discussion-oriented programs, led by engineering professors. Topics range from "Structural Engineering and Mechanics," to "Signal and Image Processing." 
Parsons noted that ND does not have a wide reputation as a research school, but that will change as awareness of university capacities heightens. 
"We can compete (for re­search sponsorship)...it's just a matter of getting the word out," she said. 
Monday's seminar will be the first of an intended annual event. Parsons remarked that the seminar will "cultivate over time." 
The past year of preparation was concentrated on designing a mailing list, and Parsons expects a greater, more consistent response over the next live years. 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ 
~ HAPPY BIRTHDAY EMILY!! ~ 
' 


Kernan criticizes lack of action by Congress 
By DANNJKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Mayor Joe Kernan of South Bend criticized Congress for their lack of initiative in solving the budget crisis at a meeting of the College Democrats last night. 
Kernan, a 1968 ND graduate, said he the local congressional race between Tim Roehmer and John Hiler will be close, but has been quiet because this is an off year election. He added that the electorate is also becoming dis­content with congressional rep­resentatives mainly because the representatives are worried about protecting their images rather than doing their job. 
He said the "lack of political will on the part of Congress and the President to tackle" the deficit problem is only adding to this discontent. 
The deficit is intangible and is not something people feel on a day to day basis but that even­tually the effects will be felt, said Kernan. "I don't think we can keep our heads in the sand that long." 
He called for legislators to compromise and make tough decisions which may cause them to lose their jobs. He said this would be better than hav­ing people who say things which lack substance because they are "scared to death of what to say and how to say it." 
Regarding the problems with the budget, he criticized Con­gressional actions of the past few weeks saying, "I think what has happened over the past 3 or 4 weeks... in Congress is a travesty." 
"(There is) a general lack of confidence in the way the fed­eral government is handling it's business," he said. 
Kernan also discussed the problems the Democrats have been facing over the past few years. He said the Democrats have been losing ground. "Clearly the last ten years have been a disaster because no one knows what we believe." 
He blames this on a lack of "passion" by Democrats to tell what they are like. "No real voice has been a rallying point." 
He blames this lost ground on labeling by Republicans. 
"We act like (being labeled a) liberal is the absolute worst that can happen to a politician," 

"'"" .. ~-' 
~'(, ~ 
~ ~ 't'-: 
:> ,, • 
' ' 
' ~· t-\ ... ~·. 
Mayor Joe Kernan 

said Kernan. "The reason is that we have let Republicans define what liberal means and what conservative means." 
He said democrats need to give a clear definition of "who's who, who stands for what" and that they should not be taken in by the conservatives. lie suggested that Democrats "come out swinging with passion, common sense and advice." 
Kernan encouraged students to vote. There is a general feel­ing that one vote cannot really make a difference. lie told of a race in which the winner was determined by 4 7 votes and one that ended in a tie. 
"You just don't want to be in the position of knowing you just blew it," he said. 
He also encouraged stud.:mts to volunteer to help on cam­paigns. lie said, "Walk down to headquarters" and volunteer to do something. This gives a per­son a view of what it is like to be involvnd and might lead to a career in politics. "It is tougher and tougher to get people to run and we need good people." 
He asked students to consider doing some type of public ser­vice after graduation. "It is not only rewarding... but it gives you experience you can't get anyplace else." 
In other business, the College Democrats are manning phone banks for the Roehmer cam­paign and need volunteers. They also announced that Lottie Shackleford, vice-chairman of the Democratic National Convention will be speaking at the Century Center Oct. 21 from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Anyone inter­ested in these activities should contact Mike Roebuck at 283­3479 or Patrick Ninneman at 
WEAR IT 


~ 1'''~~c·•c~• >· 1.
>>>· ,.,,..

! .:. \"... --.--------c--.-·.·. ------------------------rh~"'ob;e'N~:-------·-----·.-.--.-.-·-, .. · · · ·-··, ·--·---F~id~y. ·octt;be~ 19. 199a' 
p~a~ge~6~----------------------------~~~~------------------------~~~~~ 


' 

© 1990 Game Day Promotions. All Rights Reserved. Game Day Promotionsand PBM, INC are members of the Knock-off C~lition Power Base Management, Inc., 2424 Bow Court • Building 8 • South Bend, IN 46628 (219)282-9344 

- --~­ -­ 
- 
The Observer  page 7  



Liberals pull upset in election 

EASTBOURNE, England (AP)­The centrist Liberal Democrats upset the governing Conservative Party in a special election held Thursday to re­place a legislator murdered by the IRA. 
They overturned a nearly 17 ,000-vote Tory majority in the last election to take this Conservative stronghold by more than 4,500 votes. 
This south England coastal resort has been Tory territory for more than 70 years and was among the Conservatives' dozen safest seats in the coun­try. 
"Clearly the result is very dis­appointing. It is a very poor re-suit for us, there are no bones about it," Conservative Party chairman Kenneth Baker said early Friday. 
Liberal Democratic candidate David Bellotti took the seat with 23,415 votes, to 18,865 for Conservative Richard Hickmet, a 42-year-old lawyer. 
Ian Gow, 53, the previous legislator, was killed July 30 when the outlawed Irish Repub­
lican Army blew up his car. The vote for the socialist La-
The Observer/Dave Short 

Signs of battle 
bor Party, which is leading in 
A homemade sign hangs out of Browson Hall rooting for the national opinion polls, fell to 
Fightin' Irish as they prepare to face the Hurricanes tomorrow. 2,30R, or five percent. The Lib­
.----------------------------. Gunman 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of 

arrested in 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
A~eric~n Psycho~nalytic Association accredited training: 

California 
U~1Vers1ty of Ch1c~go medical faculty; treating people with personal, relatiOnship, or career problems. Increased 
OAKLAND, Calif. (API -Aself-knowledge reveals new opportunities. Medication used transient was arrested Thurs­only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
day in connection with a shoot­ing rampage that left two peo­
..________________________. pie dead and two others seri-

FREE TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED T~MEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD~ 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 

LOVE YOU, DAD, MOM JIM, KIM, JIMMY, ABBY DAWN, DON AND FLUFFY 
. 
~········································:
• 
i • EE i • THE i• TINY 



i·• LIGHTS! 
eral Democrats took 51 per­Liberal Democratic leaders cent, up from 30 percent in the hailed the victory as restoring 1987 general election, and the party fortunes after internal Tories slumped to 41 percent feuds slashed the centrist vote from 60 percent. to below 10 percent compared 
"This is a fine result for us with their one-fifth share at the and a disastrous one for the last election. Conservative Party," declared But party president Charles Bellotti, 47, a local authority Kennedy cautioned, "One swal­councilman and director of the low doesn't make a summer." Young Men's Christian Associa-Special elections are a fa­tion. vorite time for protest votes, 
Critics accused Hickmet of with voters often returning to overplaying the IRA card in his one of the two major parties at campaign to garner a sympathy general elections. vote. Polls taken nationally still 
Observers saw the result in show Labor with a healthy lead the 71 ,400-voter district partly over the Conservatives and the to a backlash against Hickmet's Liberal Democrats far behind. theme that a vote for an opposition candidate would be Prosperous Eastbourne epit­"a moral victory for terrorism." omizes south England Tory ter-But it also was seen as a revolt ritory -negligible unemploy­against the economic problems ment, a high proportion of re-plaguing the administration of tirees and an abundance of Prime Minister Margaret small businessmen, and voters Thatcher. strong on law and order. 
The Eastbourne result cuts 
Inflation is running a 10.9 the Conservatives' big majority percent, high interest rates are over all the other parties com-squeezing homeowners and bined in the 650-seat HousP of businessmen, and the govern-Commons from 97 to 96. The ment is under fire over funding Conservatives have 373 seats, for the National Health Service, Labor 226 and the Liberal education and an unpopular Democrats 20. The rest are new local government tax, the split among minority regional so-r11ll<>r! poll tax. parties. 
• 
i 
i • 
i• 
• 

ously injured. 
Delaney Marks, 34, was ar­rested in nearby Afameda for investigation of murder, Oak­land police Sgt. Dan Mercado said. 
"lie had the weapon with him and through some admissions we believe he is the shooter in all four cases," Mercado said. 
The rampage Wednesday be­gan when a gunman walked into a Taco Bell restaurant and shot a cashier in the face, Mer­cado said. Mui Loung, 20, was in critical condition Thursday at Eden Hospital Medical Center, a spokesman said. 
SfEAKS~ PRIME RIB~ ~(v: SEAFOOD ~~~~ 
HRIST,>LJRM'1 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


~·····························~~~ 

The Obser.ief :· : Friday, October 19, .1990·.. 
U.S. asks U.N. to demand hostages 


UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The United States on Thursday pushed for the swift passage of a new Security Council resolu­tion condemning Iraq's human rights violations in Kuwait and demanding the release of all hostages held by Baghdad. 
"It's one we hope will pass quickly," a State Department official said on condition of anonymity. However, no formal council meeting, or even private consultations of the whole council, have been scheduled. 
A text of the working docu­ment obtained by The Associated Press threatens Baghdad with unspecified "further enforcement mea­sures" under Chapter 7 of the 
U.N. Charter if it doesn't obey this resolution. Chapter 7 allows collective use of military force. 
Officials were told the council might act on the resolution over the weekend. 
The working text of the reso­lution "demands that Iraq im­mediately cease and desist from 
HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT UNIVERSIT.Y OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITHTIAA-CREF AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 


B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over 1,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, 
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'll have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional 
growth through dividends. CREF's variable annuity offers opportunities for growth through four different investment accounts, each managed with the long-term perspective essen­tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account 
The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account* 
The CREF Social Choice Account* 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 TO FIND OUT MORE Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage some $85 billion in assets. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it. sm 
* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans. 
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
deporting Kuwaiti nationals, taking third state nationals hostage, murdering, mistreat­ing and oppressing Kuwaiti and third state nationals." 
It demands Iraq stop "destroying Kuwaiti demo­graphic records, settling for­eigners in Kuwait, confiscating hospital supplies and equip­ment and carrying out unlawful and wanton destruction and seizure of public and private property in Kuwait." 
Baghdad must permit "the immediate departure from Kuwait and Iraq of as many third state nationals, including diplomatic and consular per­sonnel, as wish to leave," the draft says. 
The five permanent Security Council members have reached broad agreement on the resolu­tion, which also lays the groundwork for a system of compensation. Under the mea­sure Iraq would pay for dam­ages stemming from its Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, diplomats said. 
Judge lowers Keating's bail to $300K 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -A fed­eral judge lowered Charles Keating Jr.'s bail Thursday from $5 million to $300,000, ruling that a state judge was unreasonable in requiring such a high amount from the former thrift chief. 
U.S. District Judge John Davies said Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner arbitrarily set Keating's bail as much as 50 times higher than that of his co­defendants, who already have made bail. 
"I can see no rational reason 
whatsoever... for this disparate 
treatment among defendants," 
Davies said. 

Keating, 66, an Arizona de­veloper, was jailed on charges of fraudulently selling junk bonds issued by his American Continental Corp., which owned the failed Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. 
A federal bailout of Lincoln 
Savings is expected to cost tax­
payers $2 billion, which would 
make it the nation's costliest 
thrift bailout. 

The bail decision came as the 
Senate Ethics Committee inves­
tigated whether five senators 
who received campaign contri­
butions from Keating improp­
erly intervened with banking 
regulators on Keating's behalf. 
Keating's family posted the reduced bail and he was ex­pected to be released from a county jail late Thursday, said sheriff's Sgt. Bob Olmsted. 
One of Keating's attorneys, Jeffrey Powell, said Keating would return to his home in an exclusive Phoenix suburb and begin preparing his defense. 
"I'm extremely pleased," Powell said. "But I think it's unfortunate it took us 33 days to get to this point." 
Deputy District Attorney Paul Turley said prosecutors would not appeal Davies' bail ruling but contended Klausner ruled carefully in considering baiL 

Friday, October 19, 1990 
Tapes used in Florida trial of 2 Live Crew 
FOHT LAUDEHDALE, Fla. (AI') Jurors laughed Thursday as a flustered detec­tive stumbled through her tes­timony in the obscenity trial of three members of 2 Live Crew, unable to understand a tape she made of the group's rap songs. 
The officer had recorded the allegedly obscene Hollywood concert that led to the arrest of the three. who were charged with violating community stan­dards of obscenity by singing about oral and anal sex, among other things. 
The misdemeanor charges against Luthnr Campbell, Mark Hoss and Chris Won~-,rwon could bring ynarlong prison terms and fines up to $1,000. 
Broward County shnriff's lletnctive Debbie Werder was one of eight undercover vice officers who taped the June IOth pt~rformance. Prosncu tors 
asked her to play a few seconds 
of the cassette tape, then tell 
jurors the lyrics. 
She had trouble understand­
ing the scratchy recording and 
repeatedly asked it to be played 
over. Jurors, who worked 
through lunch, were clearly ir­
ritated, shaking their heads and 
laughing. · 
"This isn't the type of music I listen to every day," Werder. explained to the court. "It's not the kind of music I want to memorize." 
One female juror nodded off. A young musician on the jury lightly tapped his feet during the music. 
Testimony was interrupted frequently by objections. And the jurors, who Wednesday had sought and received permission to laugh during the trial, loudly exercised that right in the jury room while the attorneys ar­gued. 
The Observer page 9., 

AP Photo

Cheney visits the Kremlin 
U.S. Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, right, addresses the Supreme Soviet on state security in the Kremlin, Wednesday. This is the second visit by a U.S. defense secretary to the Soviet Union. 
·:·:::::::::::::::::::.:·:·.·. 
:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:
.. ~;::·i.~::::i:/::::/:::.:::::.:·::·;::·::· 

.:~ ~~ ~: ~: ~: ~: ~:::: ... 
IS GOD CALLING YOU TO THE CARMELITE ORDER? 
11 f!OU ~....~iu 
-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:­
e THE GOSPEL • PRAY~R • CHRISTIAN ACTION 


'We ~ ~! 
_ CONTACT _ 
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 1317 Frontage Road • Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 
• (708) 852-4536 •
L _________;:...:..._::.....:::..:..._____________~ 
DEADLINE FOR REGISTRATION FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19th 
Registration/Information Available @ -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry 
·Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library _ Office of Justice Education ·128/159 Madaleva Hall -Campus Ministry . 150 Regina Hall _ Dorm Representatives 
What is the Urban Plunge? 
Answer: 
-program available to all ND/SMC students -48 hour immersion into inner-city life -during Christmas Break (2nd week in January) 
at one of over 40 different cities -opportunity to experience conditions of poverty, injustice, and apathy existing in our cities -chance to survey the sphere of available programs to see which interests you most! -participants receive 1 hour academic credit 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19 
de Klerk lifts state of emergency 
JOHANNESBUHG, South Africa 

~;J~~::~~~~:~~:~~~~;~ 
emergency in violence-plaguedNatal Province. 


~££i~f~:~~~~~~:~~~,:s~
ing power-sharing between the dominant white minority and
the black majority. "There is only one route to peace and reconciliation-that
is through peaceful negotia­
tion." the president said in Pre­movement has claimed 5,000 toria. "The door to this is now lives since 1986. fully open and I am appealing Ending the state of emer­
to all leaders and all South gency was an ANC eondition for 
Africans to accept the chal­lenge." 
The act officially ended a na­tionwide state of emergency de­clared in June 1986, when un­rest spread throughout the country. 
In June, de Klerk lifted the emergency restrictions in the rest of the country but kept them in Natal, where a power struggle between the ANC and the conservative Inkatha 
--~------------------------~ w~ ~~O(!J[@ 'lfiY!Ja @@J[fi)~rNJOa @[ji) 
'{pYJJIJ 
~crrJOOlcfl~ 
From· Bert. Mike, Justin, Joe, & Paul. 
GOOD LUCK IRISH! 

FI<_[~ Db:L!Vb.R( 
z7r-att3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
.·~ Foot Party Subs Available For Tailgating-ORDER NOW 
Avso FoR Da1vERY 
CATHOLICS 
VS. 

CONVICTS 
rir 

T-Shirrs, Sweatshirts, and Neon Hats 
TAKE NO PHI.SON~--­

t==========-=-~~<' 
full-scale negotiations with the white-led government on ending apartheid and giving blacks a voice in national affairs. 
The United States and other nations that have imposed eco­nomic sanctions on South Africa to protest apartheid also have called for the emergency measures to be withdrawn. 
The ANC praised the move Thursday but urged de Klerk to release all political prisoners and repeal all security legisla­tion. 
lnkatha leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi called the decision "a step which should bring South Africa nearer to the negotiating table." 
A spokesman for the white anti-apartheid Democratic Party said ending the state of emergency forced ANC and Inkatha leaders to halt violence. 
Delegations from the two black opposition groups have been meeting in Natal to try to stop the fighting. But Buthelezi and ANC leader Nelson Man­deJa have refused to meet in what has become a political face-off over control of the black opposition. 
De Klerk said the violence, though still sporadic, had re­ceded and that order could be maintained through normal police powers. 
The state of emergency gave police and soldiers wide-rang­ing powers, including detention without trial and the authority to break up political rallies and meetings. Under security laws, police retain the right to impose strict restrictions in what they deem emergency situations. 
More than 30,000 activists, 
· almost all of them black, were detained for varying lengths of time during the four years of the nationwide state of emer­gency. 
Law and Order Minister Adri­aan Vlok told the news confer­ence the number of police and soldiers in Natal would not change. 
Police still have limited spe­cial powers in black townships around Johannesburg that have been declared "unrest areas." About 800 blacks have died in 
· factional fighting around Jo­hannesburg in the last two months. 

Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Editor .•.•..................• Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor ....•.•..•...•. Michelle Dall Sports Editor .................•... Greg Guffey Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor .•.....••.••••••••.••••••Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis 
By Kurt Mills 
The recent Coming Out Day has, if nothing else, served to highlight a major, and some­what frightening, trend on campus. This is, of course, the sickness of homophobia. This sickness is not confined to stu­dents, but also afflicts the up­per reaches of the administra­tion. 
Turning to the students first, the recent debate in the various governing bodies will illustrate the problem. The Student Senate, after a long debate, passed an extremely mild resolution calling for students to stand up against dis­crimination in general and rec­ognized that Coming Out Day existed. The Hall President's Council then rejected such a measure. Last week, the Graduate Student Council passed a similar measure, with the provision that the adminis­tration, too, should be vigilant against discrimination. 
The debate over the measure was quite instructive. First, in response to suggestions that non-recognition of gay and lesbian organizations and other measures against gays and lesbians were discriminatory, one person had the audacity to say that this was not discrimination because of Catholic teaching. This senti­ment, which appears to be widespread, is appalling. The question is not whether or not such actions are discriminatory 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 

Advertising Manager ••••.•..•Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
or not; they clearly are. Any action against a person or group because of some group characteristic is discriminatory. No, the question is whether and how that discrimination is ra­tionalized. It is rationalized by saying that the Catholic Church says homosexuality is wrong and therefore discrimination is OK. This sanctioning of dis­crimination by a religious or­ganization is very disturbing. What is even more disturbing is that so many people go along with it. 
In the past, as well as the present, religion has been used to sanction slavery and various other forms of discrimination; at times, religious institutions, including the Catholic Church, have not stood up to various kinds of discrimination which have sometimes resulted in mass slaughter. To be fair, of course, the Catholic Church today does stand up for social justice and works for an end to other forms of discrimination. However, the Church's stand on homosexuality is a significant black spot on the Church's record. This is especially so in light of the widespread intoler­ance and hate which have re­sulted. 
One person in the GSC meeting stated that this resolu­tion actually originated with the administration, and so the amendment calling on the ad­ministration to stand up against discrimination was meaningless since this resolution proved that it was, in fact, already doing so. 

Correction 
A copy editing error appeared in Professor James Carberry's Oct. 17 Viewpoint letter titled, "T-shirt enterprises trivialize the Church." The fourth sentence of the final paragraph should have read, "Nor do they appreciate the historical significance of the above allusion," instead of "the above illusion." The Observer regrets the error. 
DOONESBURY 
'XJANYtuAY, 7H8Y70WMf3.I'D 6/iT (f)MPUT/3R 7l?A/Nifo¥3 -AND ~ 5/GH. ..:::. I f&U FO!< fT1 H!3U, I HAveN'T 
5UR&,RAY;

&VtN SWJ A aJMPUTEJ< fi/NC/3 
5UR&,I

I fJJl/5TCO' 
CANTCAOI 
YOU... I 

I find it hard to believe that the administration would originate such a resolution, since it does engage in discrimination. This discrimination includes, from what I understand, non­recognition of the gay and lesbian group as an official student organization. In addition, it allows them to meet 
as  a  group  only  in  the  
counseling center.  
The  introduction  in  the  

University's Bulletin of infor­mation given to prospective students describes Notre Dame as a welcoming place, and in many ways it is. However, if I were gay, I would not feel very welcome; in fact, I would feel quite offended. 
The rationale for this discrimination on the part of 
LETTERS 

Advertisement passes judgement, lacks the sensitive ear needed by listeners 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in regards to a Tuesday advertisement of Campus Ministry (The Observer Oct. 16).The distorted views presented in such fair and reasonable guise as this Tuesday's "Campus Ministry and You" deserve rebuttal. 
"Campus Ministry and You" does not do justice to the complex reality of "Coming Out." Coming Out, were you to ask a gay man or lesbian about it, is different and unique for every person. It is more than the mere public disclosure of one's sexual being. It is, first, a self-acceptance. Second, it is a "living-in-comfort" with who one is. It is, third, an unashamed "living-the-truth" with all those one may encounter from day to day. It is the University is, of course, that Notre Dame is a Catholic institution and so must abide by Catholic teaching. Notre Dame is, however, first and foremost an institution for learning. Within a scholarly community, there is no room for such prejudice. Indeed, learning and scholarly discourse can only flourish in an atmosphere of openness and recognition of difference, not where hate or condescension and pity are encouraged. Thus, while putting itself on the line with Catholic teaching, Notre Dame diminishes itself as a place of learning. 
Finally, what are people so afraid of? If someone wants to engage in an activity which does not hurt anybody else and does not infringe on anybody else's rights, so what? Have people become so sexually repressed and uptight that they have to take out their frustra­tion by repressing others? Why are people afraid of diversity? This trend toward conformity is truly frightening. What comes next-ideological conformity? We are already part of the way there at Notre Dame. The ability of individuals to ra­tionalize discrimination can be a powerful tool in the hands of those who would like to impose their views on the rest of soci­ety at the expense of freedom and liberty. 
Kurt Mills is a graduate stu­dent in the government de­partment. 
only lastly, and least importantly, the disclosure of some fact about one's sexuality. 
"Campus Ministry and You" implies, but does not state, that the Office of Campus Ministry offers "safe people" .to gays and lesbians. That may be true or false. The advertisement states that "safe" people do not have hidden agendas. "Safe" people listen and help others discern what is best for the other, not for themselves. Who are these "safe" and "unsafe" people? Of course, the advertisement strongly implies that "campus ministry" is "safe"; gays and lesbians, "unsafe." I suggest instead: before any gay or lesbian student approaches Campus Ministry he or she ought first to consider Campus Ministry's own agenda in regard to gay and lesbian students. 
I would join Campus Ministry in urging gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame Community to find a "safe" person with whom to discuss their sexual being, to discuss the important issues of love and commitment, to discuss ethical issues, to share love and appreciation, to enjoy each other's company, to share intimacy. Such "safe" people are rare. Such "safe" people are true gems, and they are the gifts of God. I can hardly imagine such empathy, such safety or respect, coming from the writer of "Campus Ministry and You." 
Jeffrey T. VanderWilt Department of Theology 
Oct. 16, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~~68T';)()Mesu;eP!  'Forgive your enemies, but  
never forget their names.'  
John F. Kennedy  

~--------------------------------------------------------------------­



Viewpoint
Friday, October 19, 1990 
page 11 

LETTERS 

Campus Ministry has own agenda to hide from truth 

Dear Editor: 
On the surface, I should be pleased with the 'column' which was written by Campus Ministry (The Observer, Oct.15). It supports being "who1wer you are," "embraces gay men and women as valu­able persons in the Notre Dame community," and opposes "all forms of discrimination toward those who are gay or lesbian." 
However, "Campus Ministry And You" contains several challenges to those who signed the National Coming Out Day letter Oct. 11. It questions the appropriateness of graduate students and faculty members in counseling undergraduates in sexual matters. It accuses the signers of attempting to force students into "premature disclosure," saying this is "a serious ethical issue." 
Th1m Campus Ministry divides the world into the "safe" and "unsafe." The "unsafe" have "a predetermined agenda" and "some personally vested inter­est" in the issues students might be dealing with. The "safe" person" sits as a friend rather than a judge, respects your struggles and does not rush to fix them." Finally, Campus Ministry 1mds by saying "corm~ out with your questions, give the answers some time." 
To work back through those statenwnts. Campus Ministry's r.ondusion dearly says to any­
/)ear Hditor: 
The administrators, teachers, and undergraduates here at Notm Dame should be happy to learn that they are not at fault for the University's poor show­ing in the latest U.S. News College poll. The University President, Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, has placed the blame squarely on the poor quality of the graduate pro­grams here. 
In last Wednesday's Observer, he is quoted as saying, "We think we'w among the top un­dergraduate institutions in the country... I think a lot of us look at the Top 25 schools and suspect a lot of it (their rank­ing) is concerned with their graduate schools." I can only hope Fr. Malloy was misquoted, or at the least, that his remarks were taken out of context. If not, there are several reasons why graduate students ought to be concerned. 
First, Fr. Malloy implies that the graduate students are not representative of the Notre Dame community; indeed, his remarks imply that they ought to be excluded from it in evalu­ating the University. If this is an accurate rendering of Fr. Malloy's views, then we all have to question the commitment to improving the quality of the graduate programs here. 
Fr. Malloy has been fond of painting himself as the cham­pion of this cause, although his rhetoric (usually in the form of "We need to make the graduate programs as competitive as the undergraduate") does not in­spire confidence. If the gradu­ate programs are indeed drag­ging down the reputation of the University so much, then why not just sack them altogether, instead of spending the pre­cious money in a futile effort to improve a seemingly hopeless situation? It is no wonder that many of the graduate students here feel alienated from the Notre Dame "family". 
Second, these remarks exac­one wondering about their sex­uality: wait until you leave Notre Dame before you make any decisions. The obvious rea­son for this is that Notre Dame cannot handle your questions. Please, don't deal with your sexuality here. Campus Ministry seems to be pleading with us, gay or nongay, to simply not come to any sexual understand­ings while we're at the University. This is hardly a surprise. 
A more serious problem with Campus Ministry's column comes with the breaking up of the world into "safe" and "unsafe." If anything, the National Coming Out Day letter hoped to create an environment where safety exists-for exam­ple, from fa bashin 
erbate what is always the deli­cate position of a graduate student. We lack the clearly de­fined status and authority of professors which elicit respect from undergraduates, yet we are asked to perform tasks like teaching and grading that de­mand such respect. This situa­tion is usually only bothersome when those who have immedi­ately recognizable authority undermine the graduate stu­dent. For the President of the University to say publicly to the undergraduate community that their reputation has been sul­lied by the poor quality of their teaching assistants is disheart­ening, to say the least. 
Third, this misplacing of blame is a convenient way to avoid asking some tough ques­tions about the problem. If in­deed Notre Dame is not one of the best universities in the na­tion as U.S. News asserts (and this is a dubious assertion), then surely the cause is not the quality of the graduate schools. If anything, the cause is the misallocation of huge resources by an administration that builds dozens of athletic complexes and yet refuses to spend money on the very lifeblood of a great University: its library. How many weight rooms are enough for Notre Dame? 
If Fr. Malloy truly wants a great research institution, then shouldn't we be spending money where it is needed? It is interesting to note that Fr. Malloy failed to mention how the low library budget here (which according to last year's Observer ranks right up there with that of the University of Miami's) affected our ranking. It is surely not as glamorous for a rich alumni to donate a few million dollars for library staff and books as it is to build a new gym. But perhaps with some encouragement and lead­ership from an administration that is not hostage to generous alumni and the concerns of un­dergraduates, such resources and queer-baiting. 
Queer-baiting means playing on others fears about gays and lesbians. Disgracefully, that is what Campus Ministry is doing with its charge of "hidden agendas." As a primary writer of the National Coming Out Day letter, let me expose our agenda: if you're lesbian or gay, it's OK. If you're not, don't make life difficult for those who are. 
I would be remiss if I didn't express total outrage at Campus Ministry's charge of "personal interest" here, as well. That's nothing other than the old line to "watch out, or the queers are going to get you." Of course, that also as­sumes that everyone that signed the National Coming Out D letter is a lesbian or 
as are needed could be found. It is clear however, that this essentially administrative prob­lem of resource allocation can­not be solved by blaming grad­uate students for the University's woes. 
Lastly and most crucial, Fr. Malloy's reaction to the news that the University was not ranked in a second-rate mass media publication was disap­pointing. How should we re­spond best to such a poll? Should we imply that our grad­uate students are somewhat man. That would be a surprise to some of them, I'm sure. 
Those that signed that letter did so to offer support to those struggling with the issues of sexuality on this campus and to give those who want to talk about lesbian and gay concerns someone sympathetic with whom they can talk. They're not trying to "fix" anything, which, again shows Campus Ministry's true colors. There's nothing to fix in coming to terms with your sexuality, be­cause there's nothing broken. It's simply a matter of finding an environment where you have the freedom to be who you are. 
thick? Or, should we question the value of the poll by ques­tioning the magazine's stan­dards for judging the rather complex question as to the na­ture of a good education? This tack assumes that we possess such standards ourselves, and are confident in their intrinsic worth, no matter what worldly success we may achieve with them. 
An increase in reputation does not always reflect an in­crease in quality of education. Indeed, it can be argued that to the extent that Notre Dame when you are a Notre Dame student. "Proper disclosure" of your sexuality, whether gay or not, can occur only after you are no longer a part of the Notre Dame community, after you graduate. 
Finally, Campus Ministry thinks it inappropriate for those experienced in life to share that experience with others. That strikes me as running contrary to the reason that we're put into classrooms with professors in the first place. They know more about things than we do. It's also why we look up to those who are older than us. They can provide us with perspectives on our experiences that we do not yet know. 
Of course, Campus Ministry is queer-baiting, again. It is say­ing, "Don't trust anyone that's older than you that thinks it's OK to be lesbian or gay. Only trust those good ol' heterosex­uals, who, of course, have no plans for you." Give me a break. This is heterosnxist trash. 
The last place I'd go to talk about my sexuality is Campus Ministry, where the only answer they can honestly give you, as a part of this University, is "don't be sexual here." 
J. Michael Vore 
Off-Cam:ms Oct. 17, 1990 

pursues the goods of worldly reputation, she of necessity turns her back on the goods in­trinsic to education; goods that made her great in the first place. Instead of criticizing the graduate schools, Fr. Malloy ought to have reminded us that the last thing we may want for Notre Dame is for her to be­come the Harvard of the Mid­West. 
Thomas W Smith Department ofGovernment Oct. 10, 1990 

Dulac should loosen its parental grip on the private lives of ND grad students 
Dear Editor: 
On Oct. 15, The Observer dedicated significant space to the topic of off-campus housing. Being, first, a heretic and, second, a graduate student, I felt inclined to elaborate on a point which was attributed to Dave McDonald. McDonald equated off-campus living with having the freedom to take care of yourself. 
As both an adult and a non­Catholic, I expect to be treated as such-in both the defacto and technical senses. I believe that Notre Dame can become a world-class research university; however, I am disturbed by the atmosphere of patrimony which seems to permeate DuLac's vi­sion of graduate students' sta­tus. Were I a scholar, invited here to study here, I might be disinclined to accept the offer knowing that, beyond the ex­pectation that I conduct myself with dignity and respect for others, I may be penalized for behaving inconsistent with Catholic doctrine. For example, although I am not Catholic, my behavior is expected to follow Orthodox Catholic doctrine (e.g. parietals), with a possibility of expulsion. There are many exceptional candidates for graduate study who aren't Catholic and may not wish to be required to behave as such. Perhaps this highlights the con­flict between being a university and being Catholic. 
I am 28 years old and should perhaps know better than to arouse the suspicions of those in power who can, in effect, beat me up for not thinking as they do. On the other hand, it is perhaps by virtue of my age and my emancipation from others' rights to affect my choices that I implore the University to consider discard­ing those portions of DuLac which imply the assumed right to dictate behavior that in other religions-or non-religions for that matter-might be considered healthy, even neces­sary, for health. 
I do not ask the University to officially recognize sexuality, for instance, as acceptable or even desirable. I merely request that 
I 

the University provide an atmosphere in which adults freely choose to act according to their own informed morals, absent the interference of Catholic dogmaticians. It is possible for Notre Dame to be Catholic and a world-class re­search institution, offering Catholic doctrine and dogma and encouraging students, through dialogue, to choose to live according to it. Imposing penalties for non-compliance will not encourage the dissemi­nation of Catholicism, but rather reactions against it. 
Until that time, I and others will choose to live off-campus, under the supervision of our own superegos and in relation­ship(s) with our own God(s) and our own communities as might be expected of healthy adults. 
Sean W Elington Off-Campus Oct. 15, 1990 




OCTOBER 19 -21 





weekend calendar 
y 

MUSIC Radio One, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
J.P. Fish & the Peppertones, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
Denny Charles, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS Pep Rally, JACC, Gate 3, 7 p.m. 
sa ay 

MUSIC Flying Bohemian Brothers,McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
Denny Charles,WMRD, 9:30p.m. 
s y 

MUSIC Denny Charles, WMRD, 9 p.m. 
...



··vs 
SUNDAY "Antarctic Adventure,"Dr. Ted Walker, Madeleva Memorial Building, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College 
2:30p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Memphis Belle,"1, 3:10,5:20,7:30 & 9:40p.m. "Duck Tales,"1 p.m. "I Come In Peace," 3, 5, 7, & 9 p.m. 
"My Blue Heaven,"1, 3, 5, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Fiatllners," 1 :20, 4:10, 7 & 9:30 p.m. 
"Ghost," 1 :30, 4:15, 7:20 & 9:50 p.m. "Fantasia," 1:45, 4:15 7 & 9:30p.m. 
TOWN & COUNTRY 
"Pacific Heights," 4:45,7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Postcards from the Edge,"4:30, 7 & 9:15p.m. 
"Desperate Hours," 5:15,7:30 & 9:45p.m. 
100 CENTER "Pretty Woman," 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Problem Child," 7:30 & 9:15p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Narrow Margin," 1:45, 3:40, 5:30, 7:30 & 9:40p.m. "Mr. Destiny," 2, 4:30, 7 &9:30 p.m. "White Hunter, Black Heart,"2:15, 4:45,7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
The storyof 'Hate Miami' 
By DAVID KENNEDY 
Accent Writer 

''I 
s Coach Johnson 
in?" 
"Speaking." 

"Hi, This is a 
freshman from Notre Dame." 
"Yes, how may I help you?" 
"I'm beating the rush." 
"What?" 

''I'm beating the rush. I hate 
you now. We're going to kill 
you this year." 

"Whatever kid." And then he 
hung up. How rude. 

This was the conversation 
which took place between 
Jimmy Johnson, then coach of 
the Miami Hurricanes, and the 
freshman phone caller, Douglas 
Browne. More than anything 
else, this incident exemplified 
the intensity of the Notre 
Dame-Miami rivalry, at least on 
this campus. 

But this year is different. 
There has been no rush to hate 
Miami, although Saturday's 
game is the most anticipated 
game of the year for the Irish. 
The truth is, for ND, the rivalry 
with Miami may be the most in­
tense of the season but it does 
not even approach the fervor it 
reached in 1988, the last time 
the 'Canes visited South Bend. 

The main reason for this de­
cline in intensity can be 
summed up in two words: Na­
tional Championship. In 1988, 
the campus of Notre Dame 
dedicated a great amount of ef­
fort in anticipating revenge 
against Miami. The thought of 
a National Championship never 
entered anyone's mind, at least 
not until after the Miami game. 
The wait for revenge was 
predicated because of Miami's 
outscoring of Notre Dame by a 
margin of 133-20 in their last 
four meetings prior to 1988. 
Included among those routs 
was a 58-7 drubbing, in which 
coach Jimmy Johnson was ac­
cused of running up the score. 

As early as Freshman Orien­
tation Weekend, a huge sign 
declaring "Beat the Rush--Hate 
Miami Now," greeted the re­
turning students from the side 
of Zahm Hall. After Coach 
Johnson's phone number was 
placed in the classified section 
of the Observer, hundreds of 
students called and left a mes­
sage for him with his secretary. 
Their message was simple: We 
hate you. T-shirts around 
campus proclaimed, "You can't 
spell scum without UM" and, 
"Even God hates Miami." 

After gaining revenge by 
beating Miami and then later 
winning the National Champi­
onship, the rivalry has never 
been the same. When a team 
achieves the ultimate, as did Notre Dame's football team in 1988, the only way for its fans to once again be completely satisfied is to repeat the ac­complishment. 
This anticipation of an entire season goal takes some of the emphasis off each individual game and puts the emphasis on the opinion of the AP and UPI poll voters. Even last year, after losing to Miami, Notre Dame still had a chance to fm­ish the season as the nation's top team. Many felt that it de­served to be given the honor. 
Therefore, from a fan's point of view, if the goal for a partic­ular team is to win the National Championship as opposed to beating a particular team, and a loss may not prevent this from happening, then the im­portance of any individual game is less significant. The driving force for most of the excitement this year lies in the fact that a win against Miami or any other team continues hope for a National Champi­onship and a loss ends it. 
Many things have changed in two years and most changes have led to the lessening of campus sentiment against Mi­ami. Jimmy Johnson, who was the number one reason on a popular shirt of 1988 contain­ing the "Top Ten Reasons to Hate Miami," left the team for the NFL after the 1988 season and took much of the hatred with him. Mter beating Miami and wining a National Champi­onship, the 'Canes no longer seemed so much more powerful than the Irish and the schools became peers on the top of the college football world. 
Also, most of the image of a fight between good and evil, symbolized by the battle be­tween the Irish and the 'Canes, has been tarnished because of incidents involving ND, includ­ing pre-game fights, taunting, player suspensions and also a big money television contract and steroid allegations. 
Although much of the hatred this year has been replaced by mutual respect, and the game's true importance lies in its Na­tional Championship implica­tions rather than the fact that this is the last regular season battle between the two schools, the game itself will most likely live up to expectations as far as intensity and excitement on the field. 
Surely, when the Notre Dame Fighting Irish and the Miami Hurricanes finally meet on Sat­urday, all thoughts of National Championships and number one rankings will be temporarily put on hold. The stadium will be filled with the Spirit of 1988. 
'The Cau 
By STEPHANIE SNYD Accent Writer 
T 
his weekend, Dame will be up "The not just Miami, but also 
fellow student. 

The feelings of rivalry venge for tomorrow's m1:1 with Miami have dissi with the advent of tl: "Notre Dame vs. Miar shirts created to suppor Cause." 
Last year on Octob1 Notre Dame graduate zh, 

-




I R I S H 

A Supplement to The Observer 
f 
' 
Irish Football '90 
page 2 Friday, October 19, 1990 
THE GAME 
The Game Miami (4-1) at NQtre Dame (4-1) 
Time 2:30p.m. 
TV & Radio CBS Sports: Jim Nantz, Tim Brant Mutual Radio Network: Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna 
Tickets The game is sold out. 
Collegiate Irish 6th Sportswriters Hurricanes 2nd Poll Rankings 
AP Rankings Irish 6th Hurricanes 2nd 
Series Notre Dame leads 14-7 
Last Game Miami 27 Notre Dame 10 
ND SCHEDULE 
Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 
~ 
~~ ~ 
ND 28, Michigan 24 ND 20, Michigan State 19 ND 37, Purdue 11 Stanford 36, ND 31 ND 57, Air Force 27 Miami at Pittsburgh at Navy at Tennessee Penn State at Southern California 
MIAMI SCHEDULE 
L.J 
MIAMI 
Sept. 8 BYU 28, Miami 21 Sept. 15 Miami 52, California 24 Sept. 29 Miami 48, Iowa 21 Oct. 6 Miami 31, Florida State 22 Oct. 13 Miami 34, Kansas 0 Oct. 20 at Notre Dame Oct. 27 at Texas Tech Nov. 3 PITTSBURGH Nov. 17 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 24 SYRACUSE Dec. 1 at San Diego State 
GAME NOTES 
•Notre 
Dame leads the series 14-7-1 but Miami has won five of the last six meetings and six of the last eight. At Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish hold a 7-1 advantage -with Miami's lone victory coming in 1984 by a 31­13 count. 

•Irish 
Head Coach Lou Holtz is 1-3 against Miami overall and 1-0 against the Hurricanes in Notre Dame Stadium. Holtz lost to Miami 36-14 in 1970 when he was in his second year at William & Mary. 

•Notre 
Dame is now 28-2 overall since the beginning of the 1988 season, including its 23­game winning streak in 1988-89. A loss to Miami in 1989 ended that 23-game streak. 

•The 
sports information office received a huge number of credential requests for this Saturday's game. It's a good bet that all 284 seats in the press box will be filled. The first request for credentials was received on Jan. 10, 1990, in a letter from St. Joseph 


.Cablevision of St. Joseph, Mo. 
•Since 
its national championship season in 1983, Miami has a record of 78-12, the best record in college football. Over the past four years, the Hurricanes have finished first twice and second twice. Only one other team has finished first or second in a four-year stretch ­Notre Dame from 1946-49. 

•Miami's 
program made the biggest turnaround from the 1970s to the 1980s, going from 42-67 to 99-20. 




Teams let media do the talking 

By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
Revenge was high in the minds of the nation's media this week in anticipation of Saturday's annual Notre Dame­Miami grudge match. but players and coaches from both teams were calling a strikingly different tune. 
Mutual respect, national title designs and general disap­pointment regarding the conclusion of this storied rivalry have replaced bitterness and hatred as the central themes surrounding Saturday's game in Notre Dame Stadium (Kickoff is set for 2:37 p.m. EST). 
"I don't have any hard feelings against Miami," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "I never have. This really became an emotional rivalry in the mid-'80's. I remember reading about a lot of bad blood between the two schools in 1984 or '85, and that talk fuels emotion between the schools for the next year they play." 
Miami All-American offensive tackle Mike Sullivan is perhaps the best liason between the two schools since he grew up in the Chicago area and was recruited by former Irish head coach Gerry Faust in the 1985 season. Once Holtz took over the head coaching reigns, however, he dropped Sullivan's name from his recruiting list. 
"There's not any hatred involved," said Sullivan. "There's a great deal of respect on both sides. I was recruited by Faust on a preliminary basis, but Holtz didn't want any part of me. 
"As far as hype is concerned, I have enough trouble remembering the count when I go to the line, let alone what somebody said earlier in the week." 
Nearly everything said during this past week was intended to downplay the role of emotion going into Saturday's game. Holtz called Miami head coach Dennis Erickson earlier in the week to address the problem of pregame fisticuffs. 
"I called Dennis explicitly to talk about the (playing) environment," said Holtz. "I knew he would accept the call in the vein it was given. I believe that if I hadn't picked up the phone and called him, it would have been just a matter of hours before he called me." 
"You're talking about two of the best programs in the country," said Miami head coach Dennis Erickson, whose second-ranked Hurricanes have played No. 6 Notre Dame in 18 of the past 19 years. "You hate to see a rivalry like that end. 
"I wouldn't call it bitter. I think there's mutual respect on both sides of the football. This is a good rivalry that has really gotten better the last couple of years." 
It also is a rivalry that ends after this season. When the two schools agreed to a 15-year pact in 1975, neither expected the series to blossom into the greatest rivalry in college football. 
"If this (series) hadn't come to an end in the last couple of years , it wouldn't have been any big deal," said Holtz. "But in the last three or four years it has become a big game nationally. When the change was made, this team (Miami) didn't have the emotional impact it did the last few years." 
The winner of the Notre Dame-Miami game has gone on to win the national championship in each of the past three years. Both teams enter Saturday's game with an early­season loss but remain very much in national championship contention. 
Miami (4-1) lost its season opener and preseason No. 1 ranking when Brigham Young quarterback Ty Detmer completed a school-record 38 of 54 passes for 406 yards and three touchdowns in the Cougars' 28-21 victory in Provo, Utah. 

Photo courtesy Miami Sports Information 
Fullback Leonard Conley has rushed for 301 yards in 1990. He has also scored four touchdowns. 
Miami fullback Steve McGuire gained 546 yards in 1989, while becoming a vital part of the Hurricane backfield. He has gained 398 yards so far in 1990. 
The Hurricanes fell to No. 10 in the Associated Press poll but regrouped to beat California and Iowa in the next two weeks. Their surprisingly easy 31-22 victory over (then) second-ranked Florida State two weeks ago and 34­0 pasting of Kansas last Saturday moved the Hurricanes back to within striking distance of top-ranked Virginia. 
A victory on Saturday could conceivably vault either team over the Cavaliers and back into the top spot when Monday's AP poll is released. 
A defeat would almost certainly eliminate either team from the national title chase. 
"It's do or die as far as the n.ational championship picture is concerned," said Erickson. "We've both got a loss, but we both have a chance at the national championship. We're right in the thick of things." 
."We're backed into a corner," said Sullivan. "There's nothing we can do but win the rest of our games. We are confident that if we do that, we're gonna have an opportunity to win the national championship." 
As far as Holtz is concerned, Notre Dame was eliminated from national championship contention when it lost to Stanford two weeks ago. 
"I don't feel we're in the national race to begin with," said Holtz. "We're coming in at a 45-degree angle and all we're trying to do is get this sucker to shore. We're not worried about any America's Cup, I'll tell you that. 
"Miami has held the upper hand on us over the last few years. Going into this football game, I think Miami is on top of us a little bit." 
Miami certainly has the edge in offensive firepower. The Hurricanes average 37.2 points (sixth in the country) and 
492.2 yards per game (fifth). Their 306.4 yards passing per game is the fourth best mark in the nation. 
Quarterback and Heisman Trophy candidate Craig Erickson has completed 105 of 184 passes (57.1%) for 1483 yards, nine touchdowns and three interceptions this season. 
However, Miami has won its last two contests on the strength of its running game. Fullbacks Steve McGuire and Leonard Conley combined for 344 yards rushing in the Florida State game alone. 
"We've been more of a running team the last couple of weeks," said Dennis Erickson, "but we're going to mix it up. You'll see the ball thrown more than it has been in the last couple of football games." 
Notre Dame counters with a defense that has shown significant improvement in stopping the rush after yielding 253 yards on 40 attempts in the Michigan opener. Air 
see GAME/page 12 
Irish Football '90 Sports Editor: Greg Guffey Production: Lisa Eaton, John O'Brien 
Contributing Editors: Ken Tysiac, Frank Pastor, Scott Brutocao, Chris Cooney, Dave Dieteman, Rich Kurz, Rolando de Aouiar 
Cover photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, 1990 page 3 


Maryland, Sullivan the ones that got away 
Both Chicago natives might have been at Notre Dame 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO  thought somnday he would play  meet academic requirements  
Assistant Sports Editor  here.  for  admittance  to  the  
"Growing  up  in  Chicago,  University, the Hurricanes of­ 
Thny'rn good friends. They're  maybn I took it for granted that  fered Maryland a scholarship.  
both from Chicago. They're  Notre Dame would recruit me,"  "I was a second-hand pick,"  
both in the running for the  said Sullivan. "I always wore a  said Maryland.  
Outland Trophy, recognizing the  Notre Dame hat, and I thought  
best interior lineman in the  being Irish Catholic would have  Now, through four years of  
country. And they both might  a lot to do with it. But after I  football together they've come  
have gone to Notre Dame.  was recruited on a preliminary  to be thankful for the fact that  
Guard Mike Sullivan and de­ basis by Gerry Faust, I thought  they've played at Miami.  
fensive tackle Hussell Maryland  Coach Holtz would at least give  "I'm not bitter," said Sullivan,  
are two Miami standouts who  me a call. He didn't even waste  "because this is the best pro­ 
could have been lining up for  a quarter on me."  gram in the country. I didn't  
the Irish Saturday if conditions  In  Mayland's  case,  he  know that right then, but now I  
had been different. The way it  received one scholarship offer,  d0. "  
has turned out, they may be the  and that was  from  Indiana  Both players seem to dispel  
obstaeles that impede Notre  State. After making a recruiting  the stereotype of the Miami  
Dame from reaching a national  trip, he decided Indiana State  football player. While Sullivan  
championship.  wasn't for him and declined the  has been outspoken in his ef­ 
Sullivan. a 6-4, 272-pound  scholarship,  hoping  that  forts to downplay the uniquely  
guard  who  has  started  40  someone else would make him  heated rivalry between the two  
straight gamns since his fresh­ a late offer.  schools  (see  game  story),  
man year, grew up in Chicago  lie got his wish. When two  Maryland has been nicknamed  
as a  fan of Notre Dame and  Miami recruits later failed to  "the Conscience" by his coaches  
and teammates.  
Maryland was given the title  
because of his dedicated work  
ethic and sometimes righteous  
values. During practices, he en­ 
courages his teammates to stay  
focused. Who gave him the title  
of "Conscience?" Guess.  
"Mike Sullivan was joking  
around one day and he called  
me (the Conscience) and it kind  
of stuck," said Maryland. ''I'm  
nobody's  father  around  
here-just a concerned player, I  
guess."  
He's a concerned player that  
offensive linemen must be con­ 
cerned about. At 6-2 and 273  
pounds, Maryland is one of the  
strongest, quickest (4.8 in the  
40) and most intense defensive  
tackles in the country. Many  
consider Maryland and Irish  
noseguard Chris Zorich the two  
best defensive linemen in col­ 
Photo courtesy Miami Sports Information  lege football.  
Russell Maryland is a leading candidate to win the Outland Trophy  "Hussell Maryland is a great,  
in 1990. The Chicago native will probably be named to several All­ probably the best, defensive  
American teams at the conclusion of this season.  player we'll ever face all year,"  

 said Irish offensive guard Mirko  
Jurkovic. "He's got speed, he's  
"Since ,.,  got quickness, he's real quick  
off the ball, he's big, he's just  
a ..l6l~  got a good sense of the game. "Everything he does just gels. He's a great player."  
-rb.e I talillll  Maryland, despite being dou­ 
Ristorante•  ble-teamed for most of the sea­ 
son, has 33 tackles and three  
Delidous food pl"l'pal"l'd in  sacks in five games this season.  
Alfredo, Manicotti, and Veal Parmagiana. For festive occasions check out Parisi's Italian Style  Last year he had 83 tackles and two sacks, and in 1988 he had  
dinners, includes everything but the gondola.  


: CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS : 
: GOOD LUCK IRISH! BEAT MIAMI! : 
• •e
e NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR NEXT YEAR e FOR INFORMATION CALL 272 -1441 e 
• 

Notre Dame Stadium will be
Nt'W SUNDAY IIOVRS: 4-9 P.M. 
like it was in 1988-exciting
~~~···l. " ~ ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957
This Sunday only --buy one dinner 
and terrible.
SORBIE

and get second at 1/2 price. 
"It's a unique place to play

PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS
GO IRISH! 
football," he said. "In one of the 
bigger games I've played, the Closed Mon. Open Sun. til 9 
DINNER 4 P.M.-11 P.M. 
...:.,~ :... 

1988 game (in which Notre 
Dame beat Miami 31-30), the
ROCCQ'g gTYlf gHOP


232-4244 
feeling when the fans ran onto
531 N. MICHIGAN ST.
South Of Notre 0111111' Golden Dome 
the field was a feeling that
APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN
1412 South Bend AVItU 
never quite left me. From what I remember from '88, Notre Dame people are not exactly
~~ 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS: PERMANENTS-COLOR 
see SULLIVAN/page 4 

87 tackles and eight sacks. 
"It's unbelievable what he's done," said Miami coach Dennis Erickson. "He's got a great work ethic on and off the foot­ball field. He's developed some good work habits. He also has great leadership." 
So convinced is Erickson of his star lineman's abilities, he has said outright that Maryland should be awarded the Outland Trophy, the highest award for interior linemen. 
Maryland's progress through college has been astounding. Coming out of high school at 320 pounds, at Miami Maryland dropped the pounds but main­tained the strength-a combi­nation that has made him one of the most attractive pro prospects in the country. 
One unanswered issue about Maryland's peformance Saturday will be whether an ankle injury will slow him down as he makes his moves around offensive linemen. 
"A bone spur in my ankle has prohibited me from pushing off and making cuts," said the de­fensive tackle. "I've had it for years-just now it's starting to bother me. The Notre Dame game is a cure for all ills-a big game. I'm going to have to give it my best shot no matter what my problems are." 
Still, he's called the Conscience. Maryland has said he prefers "counselor," but Sullivan's billing has stuck. 
"I've called him a lot of other names over the years, but none of those have stuck," countnred Sullivan. 
For Sullivan, one of only two college football players in the 1980's who were starters on two national championship teams (the other was Miami de­fensive end Greg Mark). the op­portunity to play the Irish in 


--~~-----~-­
Irish Football '90 
page 4 Friday, October 19,1990 
.~·vio·Eo··wAREH·ou·s·E;··iNc:···~
A • 

,., 1 hour quality photo developing : 
•e • receive second set ofprints free with this ad •e e • full video store with blank tapes and video accessories • : • video players available for rent : • • conveniently located behind Campus View Apartments e 
• •e
e 2022 South Bend Avenue e South Bend, IN 46637 • 

Mirer fills Montana's jersey by posting impressive stats 


By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
Before the season, ex-Notre Dame quarterback Joe Montana, who is now with the San Francisco 49ers, asked Irish sophomore Rick Mirer to take care of his number. 
Mirer. who wears the num­ber-three jersey which Montana donned in Notre Dame Stadium from 1975-77. has done that jersey justice through five games this season. In fact, Mirer has exceeded almost ev­erybody's expectations in quar­terbacking the Irish to four vic­tories in their first five games. 
Is Brigham Young's Ty Detmer your leading Heisman Trophy candidate? He might be, but the fact remains that Mirer has a better passing efficiency this season than the junior Cougar star. In fact. the Goshen, Ind. native is third in the nation in passing efficiency with a 
155.2 rating; only Virginia's Shawn Moore (172. 7) and Quinn Grovey of Arkansas 
(158.6) are ranked ahead of Mirer right now. 
At first glance Mirer's num­bers are not awe-inspiring. He has completed 65 out of 102 passes for 938 yards, five touchdowns, and only one in­terception. But if he maintains his current completion percent­age of .637 he will shatter the single-season Irish record held by Steve Beuerlein, who com-
Sullivan 
continued from page 3 
the reserved type. 
"Playing Notre Dame last year in the Orange Bowl was electric when you heard the hometown crowd behind you. That's what really scares me going into this game." 
But concerning the hype that is going into the Notre Dame­Miami rivalry, both Sullivan and Maryland have taken the low­key approach. 
"We just want to go out there and have a good showing against a good team," said Maryland. "The momentum may carry into the rest of the season." 
Added Sullivan: "If you need all that stuff that happens dur­ing the week before the game, you're really in trouble." 
Rick Mirer 

pleted 140 of 232 passes in 1984. 
And as far as taking care of Montana's number goes. Mirer is light years ahead of his pre­decessor in terms of early de­velopment. After Montana's first five starts as an Irish quarterback he had completed just 28 of 72 passes (.389 per­centage) for 383 yards, one touchdown and eight intercep­tions. 
Mirer has performed ad­mirably under pressure as well. In the first two games of the season against Michigan and Michigan State, he drove the Irish for go-ahead touchdowns late in the fourth quarter. He completed five of six passes on both of those drives. He also was within inches of bringing the Irish back a third time against Stanford, but the po­tential winning pass bounced off tight end Derek Brown's 








r$2-0FFl 
I Any Haircut I I (regularly $8) :
---------------1I 
SOUTH BEND 
EDISON RD. at ST. RD. 23 
277-0057 

(Walking Distance From N~D. Campus) 
fingertips and fluttered harm­lessly to the ground. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz says he is going to have to ask for even more from Mirer Saturday against Miami. The Hurricanes are notorious for putting a lot of heat on opposing quarterbacks, so Mirer will have to be at his best if Notre Dame is going to have a chance to win. 
"We aren't going to ask him to do much else except be him­self and play within the system, which we've always done," Irish coach Lou Holtz says, "but the reason I said we're going to have to do more is because Miami puts far more pressure on you. 
"They create more turnovers, they create bad decisions, they don't give you as much time to find the receivers. We're going to ask him basically to do the same things, but if he can do the same things he has done against Miami, he's going to be doing a lot more than he has in the past. We don't want him to do anything but play within the system, but Miami doesn't al­ways allow you to do that." 
If Mirer manages to persevere in spite of the pressure from the Miami defense, he will once again prove that it was not a mistake to give him Montana's old number. The number three might have a little bit more magic up its sleeve; it is up to the Irish quarterback to reach up and find it once again. 

GOOD LUCK GOOD LUCK IRISH! IRISH! 
FR.~b_ Druv'bR( 
Z7t-8lf3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
,....... 11-......... 
& Foot Party Sube Available For Tailgating4RDER NOW 
A~o FoR DeuvE.RY 
CATHOLICS 
VS~ 
CONVIm 
III 
T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, and Neon Hats 
TAKE NO~-­
: 272-4848 : 
Irish Football '90 
page 5 

Friday, October 19,1990 


This Holtz would like Irish to pass more often 
He works for free, but doesn't live 
get where they are now. Also, great receivers, like we have their work habits have made right now." in the shadow of coaching father my job that much easier." Yet fear not Irish faithful, 
Another one of the blessings Notre Dame is making no quick By DAVE DIETEMAN nine men on the line and try to which Skip is careful to count of transition to anything reminis­Sports Writer kill our quarterback, we will is the fact that he works under cent of Air Coryell, Dan Fouts run shorter routes. We'll also his father. and the pass-happy San Diego 
When Notre Dame takes the stay away from the deep routes "To work under Lou has been Chargers teams of the late field against Miami tomorrow if we're short on time. Of very rewarding for me as a 1970s. afternoon, more than a few course. if they drop people off, coach because of what I'm "Lou is a big believer in con­people will be wondering about we'll go for the deeper passes learning," maintained the trolling the line of scrimmage what Haghib Ismail, Derek and the run. mirthful son. "The entire offen­and the clock," explained Skip. Brown and the rest of the Irish "Coach Joe Moore has done a sive staff-coaches Moore, "He believes that you win the 
reeeiving corps will be able to great job with the offensive line. Yelovich, and Cordelli -have game up front, and that is how accomplish against the I don't feel like we'll have any really helped me. It is reward­his teams play. llurricane defens11. trouble from a lack of Skip Holtz ing to be here with everybody "Still, the attitude that we're 
One such wonderer will be quarterback protection. We "Being back at Notre Dame is else as well as being able to see willing to pass more is great for standing on the sidelines, con­have great tight ends and a like a dream come true," con­how Lou approaches every day the receivers. In the past, they fident and hopeful. great offensive line, as well as a fessed Holtz. "Corning back and psychologically handles his knew that their role was mainly 
That curious soul is Skip great quarterbaek. Everybody here has made me feel as if I've players. to be a downfield blocker. It Holtz. on this team has a responsibil­been graced. Having the oppor­"I've learned a lot from seeing was not in their role to make 
Skip, the son of Notre Dame ity. On Saturday, each position's tunity to be back here really how he builds into the week. great catches on third down, head coaeh Lou Holtz as well as job is to uphold its re­made me feel blessed." It's nice to be back around my and they didn't really have the the wide receivers coach, was sponsibility. It's the running The talented receivers which family, but we [Skip and Lou] opportunity to catch in huge 
cautious yet optimistic in his back's responsibility to find the Skip has the luxury of coaching have a very professional rela­chunks in the past. For them, appraisal of what his crew will holes, the wide receivers have have also made him feel tionship in the office. He will knowing that we plan to throw be ahl11 to accomplish on to block and catch balls instead blessed. probably jump on me faster more often is motivational." Saturday. of dropping them. Everybody "As far as the receivers as a than anybody else because I am The players, however. get all 
"Miami does a whole lot of has a job to do. We win when group are concerned, I cannot his son." the motivation that they need things on defense," observed everybody does their job." say enough positive things Perhaps a cause for rebuke from the competition for start­the younger Holtz. "They play a A Notre Dame monogram­about how good they have been has been the prodigal son's de­ing positions. As if that wasn't very aggressive style of defense winner for his special teams for me," admitted Holtz. "They sire to throw the ball even more enough, this week has the -both on the line and in the exploits in 1986, Skip also pay attention and I don't have than the Irish have done so far added motivation of being per­secondary. They are definitely served two seasons as a gradu­to tell them things a million this season. While many Notre haps the most important week more of an attack defense than ate assistant under Bobby times. They really make a con­Dame devotees may be pleased of practices the Irish will go 
they are a defense that reacts Bowden at Florida State. scious effort to be better. with the seemingly new-found through. to th11 offense. They really like During his stay at Florida State, They're all striving to be the airborne prowess of the Irish "With all the players we have to come after you. the Seminoles compiled two 11-best that they can be. It's been offense, Skip Holtz was not at positions like split end and 
"We need to work on blocking 1 records and vietories in the a pleasure for me to work with ashamed to admit that he flanker, there is all ready so downfield because Miami likes 1988 Fiesta Bowl and the 1989 guys like Tony Smith and the would like to take to the much competition at both posi­to attack the receivers and get Sugar Bowl. Last season, he Rocket, especially because of friendly skies a bit more often. tions that it creates intensity to the ball. Blocking has not worked as the wide receiver how hard they have worked to "If it were up to me, we'd and competition that we bn1m our receivers' forte this coach under Earle Bruce at get here. pass a whole lot more," chuck­wouldn't have without all this year. Of eourse, we also have to Colorado State. "Tony Smith has taken a long led Holtz. "I don't think that we talent. Every player and every work on running our routes All of his previous assign­road to get here. You've just got pass enough yet. At Florida week, the competition is tough and catching thn football." ments aside, Skip could not find to take your hat off to him. I State I learned a lot, and I be­to see who starts. How well you 
"As an offense, wn will take enough superlatives to describe admire guys like Tony and the came a big believer in throwing practice determines who sees what their defense gives us," the pleasure he derives from Rocket because they have really the ball -especially when you continued Skip. "If they put being at Notre Dame. overcome lots of obstacles to have a great quarterback and 
see HOLTZ!page 15 

-------·· ··--­

Follow Lou Holtz and the Irish ... 
All year long! 



Subscribe Now 
FRIDAY. OCTOBER 5, 1990 VOL XXIII NO 30 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Subscribe to the only paper that covers the Fighting Irish every day, mail delivered to your home 
$20 for one semester $35 for the whole year 
Name Street Cjty State Zjp 
Send to: The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


THE 



JOURNALISTS PREDICT
EDIA 

THE OUTCOME 
SPEAK 


Sports Restaurant Lounge 
~-----------------,
SNEAKERS I 
I $3.00 I 

* Five T.V.'s I I 
OFF I

* Basketball Shoot Any Large Pizza : Three Dart Boards Excludes all other Discounts 1
* 
Expires 10/31/90 1

* Nightly Specials 
------------------J
* Pizzas/Sandwiches/ Appetizers 
(in University

ND 
Lanes) * DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 
* 
Conveniently Located Just Off Campus 

* 
Come Watch the Irish Beat Miami! 

* 
Show Student ID and Receive 10% Off Food Everyday 


Located in University Lanes-1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 
• I think the only difference is Miami's overall speed. The speed at the skill positions is pretty even, but Miami's linemen and linebackers are faster. Miami is also working hard not to turn the ball over, and that could make a difference. Miami 24, Notre Dame 20. 
-TOM SEGRETTO WTBJ (NBC) Miami 
• Miami is just too balanced on offense. They will pound away with the running game and Erickson will be able to exploit the Notre Dame secondary. Miami 34, Notre Dame 27. 
-JOHN ROMANO St. Petersburg Times 
• The fates are conspiring to help Virginia in every way this season. Miami 31, Notre Dame 31. 
-CHUCK CULPEPPER The National Sports Daily (Virginia '84) 
• For Notre Dame to defeat Miami it had to come into the game playing its best football and would have to force the Hurricanes into turnovers. The Irish are not playing quality football at the present time and have not yet shown a consistent ability to force turnovers. Playing at Notre Dame Stadium with its mystique and the good fortune the Irish seem to have is always a factor against any opponent-except Miami. Notre Dame will be spirited and competitive, but simply does not have enough positives going for it at the present time to defeat a team like Miami. Miami 37, Notre Dame 30. 
-TIM PRISTER Blue and Gold Illustrated. 
• Notre Dame's defense can't possibly be as bad as they've shown this year so far. Somehow the Irish will discover a pass rush, and Touchdown Jesus will be good for a touchdown in this game. Notre Dame 27, Miami 22. 
-RICK TELANDER Sports Illustrated 
• The Canes had nothing going for them a month ago and now they're right back in the driver's seat. The Irish retreated in last season's pre-game stare-down. If they don't let Miami intimidate, they should be okay. The Irish sure won't "beat the living dog out of 'em," but anything can happen in this stadium. Notre Dame 30, Miami 27. 
-VIC LOMBARDI WVFI 
• Lou Holtz talks about smash-mouth football. He will see it Saturday when the Irish meet the Hurricanes. Look for a physical contest with turnovers again being critical to the final outcome. It is mind-boggling the amount of coverage this one game is getting. The Super Bowl has nothing on the Notre Dame-Miami game. If the game is not another classic-it almost surely will be -it will be a major league disappointment. Notre Dame 28, Miami 24. 
-STEVE KRAH 
Elkhart Truth 

• There is no doubt in my mind that Miami is the best team in the country right now. But there is also no way that the Notre Dame defense is as bad as people say. This will be another classic, but it will never match 1988, the best game of the 1980s in college football. No miracle here, just one good team beating another good team. Notre Dame 38, Miami 28. 
-GREG GUFFEY The Observer 

• Craig Erickson will be intercepted four times and be replaced in the fourth quarter by a frustrated Dennis Erickson. Derek Brown will catch nine passes for 170 yards. Notre Dame 36, Miami 30. 
-CHARLIE ADAMS WSBT-22 (South Bend) 

• If Miami doesn't turn the ball over, it should win. Turnovers doomed the Hurricanes at 
Notre Dame two years ago. Miami 28, Notre Dame 24. -JIM MARTZ 
Miami Herald 

• If the Irish are to win, the Lady on the Dome had better not take the day off-and neither had Rick Mirer. Miami 39, Notre Dame 37. 
-BARRY CRONIN Chicago Sun-Times 





~ ----­
byKenTysiac 
Graphic by Alison Cocks 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, '990 
page 7 


Irish have surplus of talent in backfield 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
After a long day of practice Tuesday night, a tired Jeff Burris stood at the exit of Moose Krause Stadium, and Lou Holtz, in a golf cart, drove by. 
The cart stoppnd. 
"llny JniT," said Holtz, "come see me tomorrow. We may be nneding you Saturday." 
Nodding, Burris said he would. 
Never mind that Burris is the number-four tailback on the tentative depth chart for the Miami game. Never mind that he is a freshman, having had only one game of experience of carrying the football, last week against Air Force. And never mind that he has ahead of him such experienced runners as Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters. 
The point is, the Irish are stacked at running back. 
At tailback, Notre Dame can draw upon senior Tony Brooks (41 carries for 166 yards, a 4.0­yard average, with one touchdown), senior Ricky Watters (45-177, 3.9, 2 TD), sophomore Dorsey Levens (13­53, 4.1, 2 TD). freshman Burris (6-30, 1 TD) and freshman Willie Clark (4-6, 1.5). 
At fullback, the Irish have Rodney Culver (74-386, 5.2, 4 TD), freshman Jerome Bettis (9­65, 7.2), senior Ryan Mihalko (3-25, 8.3) and sophomore Kenny Spears (3-18, 6.0). 
Oh, and don't forget All­America flanker Raghib Ismail, who often carries the ball, whether it be from the back­field or on an end-around (19­175, 9.2, 1 TD). 
Collectively, this is a wealth of backs that Holtz can· draw upon, but the quantity of legit­imate choices has made some wonder whether it's actually hurting the Irish. 
That's right, hurting. 
Some have said that having so many running backs to put into the game cuts into the time that the top players could be using to fine-tune their skills. Or the case could be the converse, in which the lower runners on the pole do not get into the game because the Irish have so many talented athletes to play. 
"A couple of years ago, we were not three deep at every position," said Brooks. "Now we've just got so much talent, it's hard to get everybody in there." 
Some people, including run­ning backs coach Peter Vaas, see the relative scarcity of playing time as an advantage to the team. 
"On the surface many people would read the situation that (disadvantageous) way," said Vaas. "But it's not really true because the playing time is a five-or six-day type of thing. When people stay healthier, they're going to get to practice a lot. But when you've got a guy making 25-30 carries on Saturday, he's not going to practice on Monday. 
"We have many backs, so it spreads out the practice for all of them. That way we keep ev­erybody fresh and we keep them for the duration of the season, so that they're all right on the cutting edge, so to speak. They all improve at the same level, and you don't lose anything in substitution." 
This case manifested itself in no better fashion than Saturday against Air Force, when starting tailback Tony Brooks was out with a sore ankle. Holtz played a variety of people to see how they would perform. He started Levens at tailback, and later let many players have a chance, including Bettis, Burris, Mihalko, Spears and junior Walter Boyd ( 1 carry for 2 yards). 
"We were working a lot of different people to find out what we could see," said Holtz. "We want to see people have the opportunity. We felt Dorsey Levens deserved the opportu­nity to start; he gained the starting job at spring practice and was later injured. We wanted to see what he could do with the ball and without the football. 
"This week seems to be a dif­ferent atmosphere, a different attitude that goes from week to week. It's a situation where you cannot stay with the status quo. We've got to keep getting better-and we're not doing it to motivate somebody else. We're just making it abundantly clear exactly what we want, and we go from there." 
Having depth at the positions makes this job easy for Holtz, 
ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ANNOUNCES SPECIAL LOWER PRICING ON LAPTOPS AND DESKTOPS 

Checlc out these new low prices: 
LAPTOPS 

Mlnlsport HD (6 pound laptop with 20 MB Harddislc) 
Supers port 286. Model 20 (CGA video. 20 MB H1Hddlsk) 
Supers port 286 Model ~0 (CGA video. 40 MB Harddlsk) 
Supers port 286 E Model 20 (VGA video. 20 MB Harddlslc) 
Supers port 286 E Model 40 (VGA video. 40 MB Harddisk) 
DESKTOPS 

Z-286 LP/8 Model 20 w/FTM Color Monitor. 20 MB Harddislc. 1 MB RAM.Windows J.D. Mouse. VGA video $1569.00 92192.00 92399.00 92295.00 $2503.00 
91518.00 


Vaas and company. Not only is such a supply of talent a good way to teach the younger run­ners the finer points, but the existence of such talent makes each player strive to improve. 
"Because there's so much competition it makes you get better," said Levens. "You try harder and harder every day at practice to compete with the next guy, and you just get bet­ter." 
With this built-in system of improvement, a coach can choose from many players on a given down and not have to worry about lack of effort. 
"It's kind of like that for ath­letes in general," said Vaas. "They can't rest on their laurels because there are others wait­ing and chomping at the bit. That arouses competition, and that's a big contribution to the football team." 
Even strictly among the freshmen vying for the number­two or number-three spots on the depth chart, competition is 
RESPECT HIS HOLY NAME 
STOP CURSING!! 
"It gives you incentive," said Bettis, who rushed for 46 yards on four carries against Air Force. "If you see another freshman doing good, you fig­ure, 'Well, why isn't it me?' So you start questioning yourself and then you pull deep inside and pull it out." 
With players like Culver, Brooks and Watters leading the running squad, the younger players can watch and learn from veterans who have fought battles over and over in the trenches of foreign stadiums. 
"What I try to do," said Culver, "is just try to be an aid to (the younger runners), help them out with their assign­ments, and show how to go about getting something done." 
With Brooks and Watters, the freshmen have one of the rich­est wells of experience in col­lege football. 
"Tony (Brooks) and Ricky (Watters) help me out a lot," said Burris, who scored the first 
Now Is the time to get the computer you've always wanted. Whether It's word processing. spreadsheets. datDbases or CAD. ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS has a desktop or laptop to do the Job. 
Price Includes WORDPERFECT 5.1 and Done yeBrwarranty. 
ZENITH 
data systems 
Groupe Bull 
CONTACT Notre Dame Computer Store Math/Computer Bldg. 
239-7~77 
Hort9.~!RqtrY ,P.tl~Jena 


TRAIL RIDES 
Over 500 acres of 219-778-4625
+Jtmeadows, ponds, OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND woods. 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE, IN 
11f2 Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
-• " .. • • , • • ... -· '· •. .. ~ , -"-'-, .l a-'-•..&..a..A..l...L. a...... -&... .......................... 4-._....~.......L.......,.~•••L,..t.......,.t&....t ....~ ............... -·'............ _. .. ·-·-·~~~..;.~:r:r.:r:r.:;-:;;:;-;r.;r.;::;-:;-:;r.;:~;;;;-~i;-rr:o .. ;-.. •-~. ~. ~. ~. -;.-;.-;..-;.-;-;-;-;....-;~
.. :o.. ..­

Irish Football '90 

pageS 

Friday, October 19, 1990 

The heart and soul 
Zorich anchors a unit that must make strides in Miami showdown 
By FRANK PASTOR of Notre Dame's 36-31 loss to Associate Sports Editor Stanford two weeks ago. His 15-yard penalty for un­
Notre Dame's defense has necessary roughness gave the struggled in third-and-long sit­Cardinal a reprieve after uations for the last several linebacker Michael years but never as it did last Stonebreaker had stopped full­Nov. 25 in the Orange Bowl. back Tommy Vardell at the 
Leading 17-10 and facing a Stanford 25 on third-and-four. third-and-44 from the seven, The penalty breathed new life Miami quarterback Craig into Stanford's 10-play, 80-yard Erickson hit Randal Hill with a scoring drive, pulling the 44-yard bullet at the Irish 49-Cardinal to within 24-15. yard line. The Hurricanes con­"It hurt," says Zorich. "We verted four more third-down shouldn't have lost that game, situations on that third-quarter but I can't dwell on that be­drive-a 22-play, 80-yard trek cause it will affect my play for that killed 11 minutes. Notre the rest of the year." Dame's 23-game winning streak and any Irish hopes of The same intensity that repeating as national champi­forced the penalty is what sep­ons. arates Zorich from the ordinary 
The memory of that drive and defensive lineman. The 6-1, Miami's subsequent 27-10 vic­266-pound senior nose tackle is tory lingers in Chris Zorich's one of 12 nominees for the 'llind. 1990 Lombardi Award, pre­sented annually to the top line­'It hurt. We man or linebacker in the coun­try. He was one of four finalists
shouldn't have lost 
for the award last year, which that game, but I went to Michigan State linebacker Percy Snow. 

can't dwell on that 
Zorich earned Lineman of the captains on the '90 Irish squad, when sophomore Demetrius With the graduation of de­

because it will affect 
Year honors from United Press joining center Mike Heldt, DuBose replaced Donn Grimm fensive tackle Jeff Aim last May, 
my play for the rest International and the cornerback Todd Lyght and at inside linebacker. Zorich joined Bob Dahl as the 
Touchdown Club of tailback Ricky Watters. He "Our front seven is not play­only returning starters from
of the year.' Washington, D.C. in '89. He is a leads by word and example, but ing too badly," says Holtz. last year's defensive line. 
consensus first-team All­also by emotion. His spirited "Chris Zorich has played out­George Williams, a starter on 
Maybe that's because the American and leading candi­play during spring practice, standing football. We've played the '88 national championship 
Irish defense continues to have date for the Outland Award, when he was twice kicked out well individually up front, but team, returned to his defensive 
problems stopping opponents which goes to the nation's top of practice for "scuffling", set not as a defense. We've given tackle position after sitting out on third down. Notre Dame interior lineman. the tone for the season. the entire '89 season for aca­permitted Air Force scoring Through the first five games, 'I have to keep the demic reasons. 
drives of 76, 78, 70 and 80 Oddly enough, Zorich came to Zorich has compiled 33 tackles, 
yards and 244 yards rushing in Notre Dame as an inside including 21 unassisted. He is linemen off the Dahl was spelled by Troy 
last week's 57-27 Irish win. linebacker out of Chicago tied for the team lead with two Ridgley in last season's Orange

linebackers so that
Vocational High School. He was sacks for minus-15 yards, and Bowl victory over Colorado "We did some good things on considered too slow to play in­leads all Irish defensemen with they can make the when he missed several prac­defense against Air Force," says side linebacker at the college six tackles-for-loss for minus-18 tices the week before the game

play. (Miami) has
Notre Dame head coach Lou level, but his speed (4.68 in the yards. to concentrate on academics. Holtz. "On five of their first six 40) and strength (465-pound good athletes, and Ridgley, who was Zorich's possessions we held them to bench press). coupled with an He also has broken up a pass backup and weightlifting part­one first down or no first uncanny ability to shed block­and recovered a fumble against so do we. We're just ner during the season, made downs. ers, made Zorich the perfect Purdue. nine tackles in Notre Dame's

trying to go out and
"But we don't tackle well candidate for the nose tackle "I marvel at watching Zorich 21-6 win over the Buffaloes and enough and once a team has position. on video," says Miami head play a ballgame.' pressured Dahl for the starting momentum and gets a couple of coach Dennis Erickson, who position this spring before he first downs, we don't do a good Zorich moved to nose tackle will see the real thing on up a lot of big plays. We've was suspended for a semester job of disrupting that rhythm. early in his freshman year and Saturday. "He's as good as missed an average of about 26 by the College of Business 
We're just not a real good de­now has played in 30 consecu­there is. He creates so many tackles per game. We've given Administration for an undis­
fensive football team at the tive games, including 19 starts problems it's frightening. up more plays for 20 yards or closed academic matter. 
present time. It's not that we in a row. Zorich finished third Nobody can handle him alone. more than in the last two years 
don't play hard. But we have on the team in tackles last sea­He's strong, he's got great combined. "You lose a very dear friend," 
some missed assignments and son with 92 (43 unassisted). He quickness and he plays hard." "We're capable of being an says Zorich. "It's sad that he 
we make some mistakes." also recovered two fumbles and Zorich anchors a defensive honors student, but we're not can't join us in our march to the 
Zorich committed one of recorded three sacks for minus-front seven that has started. all right now, any more than a national championship this 
those mistakes -overaggres­27 yards. seniors in every game except third grader is capable of be­see ZORICH/page 9 siveness-in the second quarter Zorich was named one of four last week's Air Force contest, coming a Rhodes Scholar." 


Miami might soon be called Running Back U. 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
The University of Miami. Quarterback U. When you think of the breeding grounds of great NFL quarterbacks, this school stands out. 
The list of former Miami quarterbacks is filled with Heisman Trophy winners and Pro Bowl players like Jim Kelly, Bernie Kosar, Vinnie Testevarde, and now Craig Erickson. But a closer look. at the Miami statistics this year indicates that a new breed of 'Cane is approaching. 
This year the Hurricanes are winning on the ground, chewing up yardage (and time) on the grourid, rather than through the air as the pass­happy Miami teams of old have done. 
So far the low-light of the season for Miami has undoubt­edly been the season-opener to Brigham Young. In that game, the Hurricane rushing attack managed only 95 yards, while the passing attack netted 392 yards. Not coincidentally, Miami lost that game. 
Since then, however, Miami has utilized the run as some­thing more than a way to pick up first-down in a third-and­short situation, grinding out an average of 208.5 yards rushing over the past four games. 
The most telling game for Miami, to date, was Florida State. The Seminoles were ranked second going into the game, and it was supposed to be one of the most closely-con­tested games of the year. 
The Miami running backs and offensive line had a say in the results of the game. When the dust had settled and the wreck­age had been surveyed, the 'Canes had manhandled the Seminoles, 31-22. 

Most impressively, Miami gained 334 yards on the ground, nearly twice its aver­age for the season. They did it on 52 attempts (their season high), for an incredible average of 6.4 yards-per-carry. Two running backs, Stephen McGuire and Leonard Conley, gained over 100 yards. 
The passing stats are equally revealing. Craig Erickson, the latest Heisman Trophy candi­date at Miami, attempted only 23 passes against FSU, his sea­son low. Those 23 attempts re­sulted in 13 completions for 128 yards, both season lows. Obviously this 'Cane team needs to run to win. 
The Miami ground game has two keys. The first is an experi­enced offensive line, led by se­nior tackle Mike Sullivan. He has started all 41 games in his career, and is a leading candi­date for the Outland Trophy, annually awarded to the best lineman in college football. The other five lineman are all se­niors or juniors with plenty of big-game experience. 
"The offensive line is the key to any game," Sullivan said. "If you can create a running game, it's got all the angles covered." 
The other factor is the run­ning backs. The 'Canes have two good ones in McGuire and Conley, which gives them the opportunity to keep fresh legs in the game, as well as making the game plan more difficult for the opposing coach, who doesn't know for which back to prepare his defense. 
"It's a feel-thing," said Miami Head Coach Dennis Erickson, explaining how he uses his two runners. "Whoever's having a good day. It's not necessarily something we plan for before we go into a game." 
The two are fairly inter­changable in the Miami attack. McGuire, a sophomore, has gained 398 yards, while Conley, a senior, has gained 301 yards. They have also combined for 11 of the Hurricanes' 13 rushing touchdowns. 
Coach Erickson indicated that Miami is going to be a pretty evenly balanced team offen­sively versus the Irish. 
"We've become more of a running team the last couple weeks, but we want to mix it up more next week [against Notre Dame]," said Erickson. 
The Hurricanes will run the ball quite a bit tomorrow. They have seen the films from the Michigan game, when the Wolverines ran effectively against the Irish. 
On the other hand, the Notre Dame run-defense has looked better the last few weeks. Nevertheless, as the BYU and FSU games illustrate, Miami needs to run the ball to be suc­cessful. So don't be shocked when you see Miami run the ball as well as pass it. And, de­spite the high-powered passing attacks both teams feature, don't be surprised if the game is won on the ground. 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, 1990 
page 9 

Learning· some lessons through losing 
Bouncing back is nothing . . ... Tony Brooks can't handle 
By CHRIS COONEY ami only gives up an average of 
Assistant Sports Editor 62 yards per game. 
"If they're supposed to be the 
best in the country, bring them 
Notre Dame will beat Miami on," Brooks said. "So far they 
on Saturday, thanks in part to have played mostly passing
its 36-31 upset to Stanford two teams, so we'll see how they do 
weeks ago. against us." 
At least that's what Irish Although he did not play
tailback Tony Brooks thinks. against the Hurricanes last 
One of Notre Dame's more vocal year, when Notre Dame beat 
players after the shocking Miami 31-30 in 1988, Brooks 
defeat, Brooks felt an Irish loss lead the team in rushing with 
this year was inevitable and 56 yards. The psychology major 
may prove to be exactly what looks to be a big factor in this 
the team needed to push them year's matchup as well, not only 
into national championship running with the ball, but also 
form. as part of Notre Dame's reju­
"It was going to happen venated passing attack. eventually," said Brooks. "We Brooks has four receptions were getting complacent, just this year for an average gain of doing what we had to do get by 12.5 yards. He thinks utilizingand never focusing on improv­receivers out of the backfield ing. adds a new dimension to the 
"We've got so many weapons Irish offense and will keep the on the t\]am, we were almost Miami defense on its toes. feeling invulnerable. We've got Versatility is one of Brooks' 
so much talent, we expect to biggest assets. too. While being
win." equally capable of catching and 
The 6-2, 223-pound back is rushing, Brooks combines definitely one of the Irish speed (4.47 in the 40), power w1~apons. BPfore a sore left an­and size to break tackles and kle kept him out of last week's outrun defenders. 
gamn with Air f'orce, Brooks While sitting out all of 1989 to getting hurt. The ankle that prospects chose another school. cornerback for the Irish, to at­
was Notre Dame's second lead­made him a little uncomfortable is currently bothering him was Brooks claims that the coach tend school here. 
ing rusher behind fullback Rod with the Notre Dame offense at broken twice in high school and never spoke to him directly "We're so close, I'm glad ev­Culver. In four games he the beginning of the year, he often feels weaker and more after learning of the decision, erything is working out for us," amassed 166 yards on 41 earri-doesn't think his outstanding vulnerable than it should. While but instead called Brooks' said Brooks, who lives with his 1~rs with one touchdown. performance this season is Brooks said he plans to mother and yelled at her over sophomore sibling. Having a 
surprising. Brooks continually strengthen it during the off­the phone. close relative to support him
'This year, we play worked out during his year-long season, on Saturday it may just "The things he said to her has made life easier for both 
absence and is considered by push him to play harder. were awful," said Brooks. "I brothers.
well during the first 
coaches to be in the best shape "The chips are already had liked the man, but I lost all "Everything I can do to helpseries and last of his life. stacked against you when respect for him then." him, I do," Brooks said. "I take Although Brooks, Culver and you're hurt," he said. "It's al­his welfare into account be­series, but we've let fellow tailbacks Rick Watters most like you have nothing left Switzer also sent some assis­cause I've been through so 
and Dorsey Levens are ready to to lose, so you might as well go tant coaches to Brooks' home to much."
down in the middle. 
battle the 'Canes, the multitude all out." try and change his mind. A couple of years of skilled athletes in the back­The chips have been down "One coach actually cried," In turn, Reggie "is always on field may actually have been a against Brooks in the past, said Brooks. "That's some­my back, mostly about the little
ago, we knew we 
problem for Notre Dame this although the senior would just thing." things, like being on time, hav­were going to get year, according to Brooks. With as soon leave that behind once But Brooks stuck to his deci­ing a better attitude and doing so much more raw talent than and for all and focus on the fu­sion to attend Notre Dame and my homework." The youngerthe job done, no the 1988 team, the Irish may be ture, one that includes leading Switzer's vendetta began. Brooks even wore Tony's num­diminishing the backs' contri­the Irish to the national cham­"I was an easy target," ber 40 in 1989 so that his
matter what.' 
butions by playing so many of pionship. Brooks said, adding that he brother, who was attending 
In addition, the senior has them. "I think I can be a good role chose Notre Dame partly be­Holy Cross Junior College in assumed a leadership role on "When you take people out, model," said Brooks. "Coach is cause his parents wanted him South Bend, would not be for­this season's team. As the sec­you're not letting them get into always talking about facing ad­to leave the South for the disci­gotten or completely removed ond h~ading rusher in 1988 a rhythm," said Brooks. "I think versity. You have to pull up your pline and education he would from the team. (667 yards and two touch­you need to get personal with a boot straps and keep going." receive at Notre Dame. "I Focusing on the present, downs). Brooks felt, after the game. It's hard to get into the wanted to go somewhere dif­Brooks thinks the team is more Stanford loss, that he was in the flow when you're rolling in and 'If they're sup­ferent. Everyone was going to than ready to upend Miami pnrfnct position to compare this out. OU. Besides. they were talking once again.
posed to be the best ­
year's squad with a national "You need to know how the about switching me to championship team that never other team is moving and hit­in the country, bring linebacker. I thought I would "It's time for us to show what diminished its intensity, ting. Your blood's not pumping probably play sooner at Notre we can do. This is just another
them on. So far they 
whether it was winning by one nearly as much when you're on Dame." stepping stone," Brooks ex­point or by 30. the sidelines." have played mostly plained. "The attitude we've 
"This year, we play well dur­Brooks added, however, that Brooks did contribute right established is that whatever the ing the first series and last none of the Irish will having a passing teams, so away, totaling 262 yards in his occasion, let's rise to it and let's sPries, but we've let down in problem staying pumped during freshman campaign, the fifth overcome it."
we'll see how they
the middle," said Brooks. "A the game with Miami. The run­highest on the team, while split­And as Notre Dame looks to couple of years ago, we knew ning backs also realize, he said, do against us.' ting time at fullback and tail­Saturday's game and the rest of we were going to get the job that they must share their time back. And he appreciated the the season, Brooks feels the done, no matter what." on the field and no bad blood After battling what has been atmosphere at Notre Dame so Irish can look to him to exem­
However, the loss has not exists among them. a tarnished reputation at times, much, he helped convince his plify that attitude both on and been as crushing as it could "We just have to adjust to it," Brooks thought he had finally brother Reggie, now a starting off the field. have been, Brooks said, be­said Brooks, when asked about put his troubles behind him cause it has sparked an in­competition between himself when he rejoined the team this crease in leadership and dedi­and good friend Watters. year. Then came a book by on Miami quarterback Craig cation. Now the Irish realize "Neither one of us should be former University of Oklahoma Zorich Erickson and disrupt his they must do more than simply sitting on the bench for the du­head coach Barry Switzer that rhythm if Notre Dame expects what's expected and constantly ration of any game." claimed Notre Dame offered to stay in this game. 
continued from page 8 
push themselves to a higher And although Brooks is still Brooks "improper induce­"I have to keep the linemen level of play. nursing the twisted ankle that ments" during recruiting. year, but we've got to pull rank off the linebackers so that they 
"The real 1990 football team held him out of the Air Force Switzer's autobiography, and go on. He'll be back in the can make the play," says hasn't been seen," said Brooks. game, he expects to play this "Bootlegger's Boy," implied that spring." Zorich, who will again be dou­"We haven't pulled all our tal­Saturday. Irish officials violated recruiting But Zorich will not, which ble-and triple-teamed on ent together yet and become "It's weird, but I think I play guidelines. Switzer later makes Saturday's Miami game Saturday. "(Miami) has good one working machine." better when I'm hurt," he said. specified the vague accusations all the more important for him. athletes, and so do we. We're •• 
While Brooks feels Notre That statement may be true. by charging that Notre Dame The Hurricanes, perhaps bet­just trying to go out and play a Dame has the best overall tal­Brooks played all of '88 with a arranged summer employment ter than any team in the coun­ballgame." 
for Brooks. try, are capable of sustaining
ent in the nation, not many hairline stress fracture in his would argue with him that the left foot. Wearing a special long, laborious drives that eat "In a game like this, you try to Irish definitely have one of the shoe, Brooks said that he, and Brooks flatly denies Switzer's up the game clock. They exe­play down emotion," Holtz said 
best backfield units. That not head coach Lou Holtz or statements, although an Irish cute the run and the pass with earlier this week in trying to should create a good match-up any other coach, made the deci­alumnus did (legally) find a job equal efficiency, and thrive on protect his players from getting when the Irish ground game, sion to continue competing in contact for him. The Tulsa, third-and-long situations. too fired up before they take 
which has tallied 1,239 yards spite of the injury. Okla.. native thinks Switzer the field on Saturday. this year, faces the second best "If I can play, I'm going to made the allegations because Zorich realizes that the Irish That shouldn't be a problem rushing defense in the land. Mi-play," said Brooks, who is used he was mad that one of his star front seven must put pressure for Chris Zorich. 
Tony Brooks says Notre Dame's loss to Stanford two weeks ago may have been just what the Irish needed. Brooks will most likely play a big role in Saturday's game. 

.· ..
. ··-.:· 
.._. 
-.~. 

TEAM RECORD Virginia 6-0 Tennessee 4-0-2 Auburn 4-0-1 Miami 4-1 Florida State 4-1 Notre Dmne 4-1 
'· 
Nebraska 6-0 Michigan 3-2 Houston 5-0 Illinois 4-1 
NEXT OPPONENT Wake Forest Alabama Florida State Notre Dame Auburn Miami Oklahoma St Iowa SMU Michigan St 
-
r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------,
SUNDAY EARLY You've heard of TWIN PEAKS, wellDOUBLE FEATURE 
WEEK SPECIAL Domino's Pizza® is offering OFF PEAKS. 
.... 
$5.99 $4.99 If you order before -1 pm and/or after 8 pm, Gl't 2small L)ri~inal pi::as with the topping of your Get I large Original pizza with your fal'orite you can get I medium Original Pizza with 2 toppings dlllin· for onl1 S~~~~:·alid Sunda1s onh·. topping for only S-!.99. Valid Tuesdays only. and 2sen·ings of Coke® for only $7.99. 
II 
I I

mm [xpirrs tl/JtNll • Expires tl/Jt/90 Expires ll/}t/90 
I ® I
® ® I

V,lhd ill partrc•patmy stores only Not valid \'Jrth any other oHers Pr1ces mao vary Customer pays 
I sales IJX where artfa';~s~'~ o8e'O~~?d~~~~; ~~~~~g, '~e~~~~~~ ~~!e,~~vd~~ven~~ drwers carry less Val1d at part1c1patmg stores only Not vahd w1th any other offers Pnces may vary Customer pays I 
Vahdat panrcrpatmg stores only Not valid wrlh any other offers. Pnces mao vary Customer pays 
sales tax where ar~~c;~~ 0ge'O~?d~~~~; ~~~~g,'ge~~f~~~~ ~~!e~~~~~J~r,ven~~ dnvers carry less sales lax where applicable Delivery areas hm1ted to ensure sale dnv1no Our dnvers carry tess I !han S20 00 Our dnvers are not penalized lor late delivenes I
--------------------------------------L--------------------------------------~ 
--------------------------------------~ 
Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835 South Bend Al'e. 289-0033 816 
Al'e. 



Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19,1990 page 11 
Mihalko, Calvin remain kids at heart with football 


r*____~-Jteetak_* I 
l COOLANT SYSTEM l 
: FLUSH SPECIAL $21.95 i 
I I 
I Flush Cooling System, 1 I Add up to 1 Gallon of Antifreeze I I and Pressure Check Cooling I 
System for Leaks I Also, Inspect Hoses, Belts and I I Radiator Cap I 
I coupon expires 10/31/90 I 
L---------------------~
,---------------------, 
l PRE-WINTER SERVICE INSPECTION l 
: 1. INSPECT Wiper Blades and Windshield Washer Solvent 
1 
1

2. INSPECT Battery and Cables For Corrosion I
I 
3. INSPECT Exhaust System For Leaks I 4. INSPECT Antifreeze Condition and Test For Freeze Protection I I 5. INSPECT All lights for Proper Working Condition I I 6. INSPECT All Vital Fluid Levels I I 7. INSPECT Tire Condition 1
$ 
1 8. INSPECT Hoses and Belts 1
9 9 5 

I coupon expires 10/31 /90 • I 
L---------------------~
r---------------------, 
l OIL AND FILTER CHANGE l 
1 tir 30fl(tiratM tJ~ FREEl 
1 

I TOYOTA • VOLVO • MITSUBISHI I 
• 
Genuine Motorcraft Oil Filter 

• 
Check All Fluid Levels


: 
1 $17.50 l1 
• Check Air Pressure in All Tires 1
I includes up to 5 qts.I of Motorcraft Oil coupon expires 10/31 /90 I 
L---------------------~ ~(} ~~~ft,/8eo.t;ff;{JJI(t,1 
JORDAN'S 
IMPORT SERVICE CENTER 
Service & Parts Hours: 1605 North Cedar St. Mon. 8 • 8, Tues. · Fri. 8 · 5:30 Mishawaka Sat. Parts Hours: 8:30 · 12:30 259·1981 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
There are certain similarities between senior fullback Ryan Mihalko and his hero, Calvin (of Bill Watterson's "Calvin and Hobbes"): spiked blonde hair, a boyish grin, a love for football. However, the differences are more numerous; such as the 200-pound disparity in weight, Calvin's missing third dimen­sion, and Mihalko's superior special teams play for the Irish this season. 
Mihalko, however, admires Calvin for his attitude toward life. "Calvin will always be a little kid and think like a little kid," he said. "I approach foot­ball with an open mind and try to do my best, and enjoy it." 
The multidimensional Mihalko has been a force for the Irish this season, especially in his special teams play. Mihalko blocked both punts against Air Force, and has re­turned one kickoff and one punt this season, for a respectable 12-yard average. "Special teams are such a crucial part of the game," Mihalko said. "You are able to spark something or to change the momentum so quickly." 
The blocks against Air Force were especially exciting for the senior. "The special team was sent with the block called," he said. "Executing the play and actually getting the block made it a high. Doing it again just made it an ultimate high." 
Special teams, which have al­ways been integral under Lou Holtz, have taken on added sig­nificance this year, what with the outcome of one game rest­ing on the play of the kick re­turn team. Mihalko hopes that the special teams are able to in­fluence this Saturday's game in a positive way. 
"We run special teams a lot in practice," he said "Hopefully, the special teams will be able to execute." 
Mihalko notes a difference between special teams play and that of the offensive backfield. "You have to have a different attitude on special teams," he said. "It's a one-shot deal, and you can't redeem yourself on the next play." 
This aggressive attitude has likely been a positive factor in Mihalko's success in the kicking game. 
However, the senior is focus­ing on preparation for Saturday's game, rather than emotional intensity. "We have to focus on getting ready for the game. We'll get psyched later." said Mihalko. "Sure, it's just another game, but... we might be a little more pumped for this one than another." 
Mihalko has remained pumped all season, despite lim­ited playing time on the offen­sive side of the ball. Sophomore Rodney Culver has started each game, and freshman Jerome Bettis has also been used at fullback. The senior's attitude has kept him on top of his game. 
"I never look at playing time. When you focus on playing time, you will lose overall focus 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Friday, Oct. 19 Richmond at Villanova 
Saturday, Oct. 20 
EAST Lafayette at Army Penn St. at Boston College Penn at Brown Maine at Connecticut Dartmouth at Cornell Massachusetts at Delaware Colgate at Fordham Lehigh at Holy Cross Northeastern at New Hampshire Louisville at Pittsburgh Harvard at Princeton Boston U. at Rhode Island Rutgers at Syracuse Virginia Tech at Temple Liberty at Towson St. Columbia at Yale 
SOUTH Southern U. at Alcorn St. Western Carolina at Appalachian St. Florida St. at Auburn Middle Tennessee St. at Austin Peay Albany, Ga. at Betnune·Cookman Georgia Southern at Central Florida Maryland at Duke Tennessee St. at Eastern Kentucky Valdosta St. at East Tennessee St. Cincinnati at East Carolina Akron at Florida South Carolina St. at Florida A&M Vanderbilt at Georgia Jackson St. at Grambling St. North Carolina A&Tat Howard U. Youngstown St. at James Madison Kentucky at LSU Tennessee-Chattanooga at Marshall Arkansas St. at Mississippi Samford at Morehead St. Delaware St. at Morgan St. Clemson at North Carolina St. Southwest Texas St. at NW Louisiana NE Louisiana at Nicholls St. Georgia Tech at North Carolina Memphis St. at Southern Mississippi Citadel at South Carolina Alabama at Tennessee Mississippi St. at Tulane West Virginia Tech at VMI Virginia at Wake Forest Bucknell at William & Mary 
NOTRE DAME 
as a player," Mihalko said. "My goal is to become a better player... In that way, I will play more. 
The senior from Pelham. N.H. is recognized as an excellent blocker, but does not have the breakaway speed of a Culvf1r. In his years at Notre Dame, he has practiced at such varied positions as fullback, offnnsive guard, and noseguard. 
"I am able to grasp the plays and changes very quickly, which helps on Saturday. Hopefully, that will help you perform better," he said. 
Mihalko's grasp of the Notre Dame offense allows him to help his younger backfield mates with their play. The se­nior looks for the running backs to perform well as a unit. 
"The overall goal on the team is to win, and you want the best guys out there. They've got to get the job done," he said. "The offensive backfield has to execute for Notre Dame to be successful. We have to do what it takes to win." 
Mihalko will graduate this May, but has the option of re­turning for another year of football. In addition, Mihalko will compete this spring for the Notre Dame track team as a javelin thrower. 
His attitude toward football mirrors his desire to enjoy life. 
"I've played football since I was seven, and the game's al­ways been fun," he said. "Whenever the game isn't fun for me anymore, I'll have to stop." 
MIDWEST 
Eastern Michigan at Bowling Green 
Toledo at Central Michigan 
Southern Illinois at Eastern Illinois 
Michigan St. at Illinois 
Southwest Missouri St. at Illinois St. 
Northern Iowa at Indiana St. 
Colorado at Kansas 
Ohio U. at Kent St. 
Iowa at Michigan 
Indiana at Minnesota 
Kansas St. al Missouri 
Murray St. at Northern Illinois 
Oklahoma St. at Nebraska 
Wisconsin at Northwestern 
Miami, Fla. at Notre Dame 
Ohio St. at Purdue 
Portland St. at Western Illinois 
Ball St. at Western Michigan 
SOUTHWEST 
McNeese St. at North Texas 
Iowa St. at Oklahoma 
Texas Tech at Alee 
Stephen F. Austin at Sam Houston St. 
Houston at Southern Methodist 
Arkansas at Texas 
Baylor at Texas A&M 
Mississippi Valley St. at Texas Southern 
SW Louisiana at Tulsa 

GOLF SHOP 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND SHOP HOURS 
FRIDAY 6:30AM-5:00PM SATURDAY 6:00AM UNTIL ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME SUNDAY 6:00AM-4:00PM 
SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT 
ENJOYFINEGOLFCLOTHINGANDEQUIPMENTWITH EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAMEWGOS 
AVAILABLE ONLY ATTHENOTREDAMEGOLFSHOP 
-
-
~-~-~~---------­
Irish Football '90 
page 12 Friday, October 19, 1990 
Erickson meeting expectations 
will help cut down the number
By KEVIN BROCKWAY 
of interceptions. 

Miami Hurricane 
"Last year we had some breaks in communication, and 
If Charles Dickens were to 
they resulted in turnovers," write a novel about Craig Erickson said. "We feel a lot Erickson, he would probably more comfortable with our of­entitle it Great Expectations II. fense this season." 
The 6-2, 196-pound senior And with good reason. The quarterback from West Palm Hurricanes only lost two re­Beach has heard all the acco­ceivers to graduation and still lades-frontrunner for the have star running backs 
Heisman Trophy, a can't miss Leonard Conley and Stephen 
first round NFL draft pick, McGuire. But the defense suf­
etc.-but realizes his main goal Craig Erickson fered major losses-Cortez 
this season is to lead the Kennedy, Greg Mark and 
Hurricanes to a second consec­State and was sidelined for Bernard Clark, to name a few. 
utive national championship, a three games. Some felt that the However, Erickson said the 
goal last achieved by the injury affected his throwing defense has the potential to be 
University of Alabama (1978 toward the end of last season, as effective as last season. 
and 1979). but Erickson dispels those ru­
mors. "The defense has more speed "If the Hurricanes are suc­"My finger doesn't feel any than they did in 1989," said 
-
cessful on the field this year, different than it did last sea­Erickson, who faced the de-' then the individual awards will son," he said. "As far as I'm fense regularly during summer come," Erickson said. concerned, it's 100 percent." practices. "They have the ca­"He seems comfortable with pacity for making the big play." the offense thus far and is con­Interceptions proved to be the Erickson not only maintains a fident, which is important," said lone Achilles heel for Erickson level of excellence on the grid­Head Coach Dennis Erickson. in 1989. Although he threw 24 iron, but as a business/finance 
touchdown passes, Erickson major, he currently holds a 3.31 
Last season, Erickson frac­was also picked off 15 times. He grade point average and has 
tured the right knuckle on his hopes that another season of been nominated as an NCAA 
ring finger against Michigan being familiar with the offense Academic All-American. 

Rick Mirer has grown up in a hurry, leading Notre Dame to
Game 
consecutive come-from-behind wins over Michigan and
continued frompage 2 
Michigan State. He has thrown 
Force gained 244 yards last 
85 passes in a row without an week but also carried the ball interception, while the Irish of­62 times in the game. 
fense has committed only one "We gave up almost 30 points turnover in the last four games. 
to Air Force last week," said
.... "The ball was on the ground
Irish nose tackle Chris Zorich, 
five times last week," said 
"but we can't dwell on that. We Holtz, "once by us and four have to go out and improve." 
times by Air Force. The ball Pass defense is undoubtedly bounced into Air Force's handsNotre Dame's biggest concern all five times. We need someheading into Saturday's game. 
help. We need some turnovers,All-American cornerback Todd some fumbles, and Miami has
Lyght will be playing in his 
done that (this season). 

third consecutive game since "We are due an unbelieveable 
returning from an early-season amount pf luck in the first 58hamstring injury. Meanwhile, minutes of the game, and that
inexperience remains the 
could happen on Saturday."

biggest rap against true fresh­NOTES: Tailback Tony Brooks men Greg Lane (short corner­is probable for Saturday's game 
back) and Tom Carter (free after missing last week's
safety). 
contest with Air Force due to a 
Offensively, Irish quarterback minor ankle sprain.... Split 
... 
Wear this every day for year-round comfon! Pictured here is our popular 100% lightweight couon tlannel shin. Blue and white striped for men and women. \1achine wash in cold water, hang to dry. S28.00 
Made in Ireland 
Sizes S, M, L, XL, XXL mail order add 52.50 
We ship anywhere. Fine imports from Ireland. Scotland & Wales. 

414 Fore Stree~ Old Port Portland, Maine 04101 • (207) 773-8372
L--~en.l:~~~~.!!~~~~<!.::~:.:.~~~ _j 
end Tony Smith is doubtful after suffering an ankle sprain against Air Force. He will be replaced in the starting lineup by either Ray Griggs or Lake Dawson. . .. Quick tackle Gene McGuire could return on Saturday after having arthroscopic surgery performed to repair torn cartilage on his left knee on Sept. 30.... Miami linebacker Jessie Armstead is out for the season. 
WE BRING MORE 
Bedroom 
liVIOg 

8ednlom 
14'6" X 1..'0"
10'6"x 12'8" 10'8" X 12'11"

ROOMMATES TOGETHER 
BY SPLITTING THEM UP 
At The Pointe at St. Joseph we realize the closer you are to your roommate, the farther 
Dkmg 
13'0' X 14'0" 

apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate our 2 bedroom 2 bath with a large kitchen, separate dining area, and living room. 
-•-
Now You Can Save Money By Sharing The Rent And KeepingTHEPOINTE Your Privacy Too 
~~ 

LEASE YOURS TODAY! 
............. 
AT SAINT JOSEPH Graduate Students Mon.-Fri. 9-6 pmcall: Sat. 10-5 pm
307 East LaSalle 
Sun.l1-5pm

South Bend, IN 46617 287-2684 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, 1990 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, Bill Bilinski of The South B1md Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcomes of the week's major 








college football games. Hecords Ken Tyslac Frank Pastor Chris Cooney Chuck Person Greg Guffey Scott Brutocao Associate Associate Assistant Guest Celebrity Sports Editor Assistant
are compiled as to how each Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 31-35-4 27-39-4 Sports Editor 
person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough 37-29-4 35-31-4 33-33-4 Last week: Last week: 26-40-4 Last week: Last Week: Last week: 7-6-1 5-8-1 Last week: 
to pick the winner of a given 5-8-1 10-3-1 7-6-1 5-8-1
game. Wolverines Wolverines Hawkeyes Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines
MICHIGAN 13 over Iowa Volunteers Crimson Tide Volunteers Volunteers Crimson Tide Volunteers
TENNESSEE 11.5 over Ala. Cardinals Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers
PITT 6 over Louisville Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes
Ohio St 13.5 over PURDUE Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Razorbacks Longhorns
TEXAS 8.5 over Arkansas Seminoles Seminoles Tigers Tigers Seminoles Tigers
AUBURN 1 over Fla State lllini lllini lllini Spartans lllini lllini
ILLINOIS 3.5 over Mich State Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Trojans Wildcats
USC 14.5 over Arizona Wash 7 over Stanford 
Cardinal Huskies Huskies Cardinal Huskies Cardinal Tigers Wolfpack. Tigers Wolfpack Tigers Tigers
Clemson10 over NC State Buffaloes Buffaloes Jayhawks Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes
Colorado 17 over Kansas Penn St 12.5 over BC 
Eagles Nittany Lions Eagles Nittany Lions Eagles Eagles Cavaliers Cavaliers Deacons Cavaliers Deacons Cavaliers
Va. 27 over WAKE FOREST Hurricanes Irish Irish Hurricanes Irish Irish
Miami 2 over NOTRE DAME 
ASSOCIATED PRESS TOP TWENTY NOTRE DAME FUTURE SCHEDULES 
I Record Pis Pva This Week 
1. VIrginia (38) 6-0-0 1.454 2 at Wake Forest 
1991 Michigan State October 30 -NAVY
2. M1am1. Fla. (15) 4-1-0 1,414 3 at #6 Notre Dame 3. Tennessee 12l 4-0-2 1,354 5 ALABAMA 
Se~ember26-PURDUE November -FLORIDA
4 Nebraska (3) 6-0-0 1,258 7 OKLAHOMA STATE 
5. Auburn 4-0-1 1,238 6 #7 FLORIDA STATE 
September 7-INDIANA October 3-STANFORD STATE
8. Notre Dame (1) 4-1-0 1,208 8 #2 MIAMI 
7. Flonda St. 4-1-0 1,046 10 at #5 Auburn 
September 14 -At October 1 0 -At November -BOSTON
8 1111no1s 4-1-0 971 11 #24 MICHIGAN STATE 
9. Houston (1) 5-0-0 963 12 at Southern Methodist 
Michigan Pittsburgh COLLEGE
10. MIChigan 3-2-C 939 1 #2210WA 
11. Georgia Tech 5-0-0 835 18 at North Carolina 
September 21 -October 24 -BYU
12. Brigham Young 5-1-0 830 13 Idle t 3 Washington 5-1-0 786 17 at Stanford 
MICHIGAN STATE October 31 -At Navy 1994
t 4. Colorado 5-1·1 762 14 at Kansas 15. Southern Cal 5·1-0 761 16 ARIZONA 
September 28 -At November 7 -BOSTON
16 Ol<lahoma 5-1-0 724 4 IOWA STATE 17. Flonda 5-1-0 485 9 AKRON 
Purdue COLLEGE 
t 8. Miss1ss1pp1 5-1-0 374 24 ARKANSAS STATE September 3 -At 19. Texas 3-1-0 354 ARKANSAS 
October 5 -At Stanford November 14 -PENN Northwestern
20 Indiana 4-0-1 312 22 at Minnesota 

October 12-STATE September 1 0 ­PITTSBURGH November 28 -At USC MICHIGAN October 19 -At Air Force September 17 -At
1R c.IMII Serving October 26 -USC 1993 Michigan State 
PANCAKE ND/SMC 

November 2 -NAVY September 24 -PURDUE
Students
HDUSE 
November 9-September 4-October 1 -STANFORD
for 25 years
RataiiUIII 
TENNESSEE NORTHWESTERN October 8-At Boston November 16-At Penn September 11 -At College
rcO'loNW.'PANCAKEHOUsE, 
State Michigan October 15 -BYU
GO IRISH 
I APPLE PANCAKE I 
November 30 -At Hawaii September 18 -October 29 -At Navy 
BEAT MIAMI! 
I SAVE St.OO I 
MICHIGAN STATE November 12 -Florida 
1992 September 25 -At State (at Orlando) 
r.xp.n-30-90 offJ
Healthy Gourmet 
Purdue November 19 -RICEPancakes on sale ~C~ON~===Nt~o1iiE1 September 7 -At October 2 -At Stanford November 26 -USCthrough October. I ANY CREPES I 

Northwestern October 9­
OPEN AT 6AM DAILY 
I SAVE St.OO I 
September 12 -PITTSBURGH MICHIGAN October 16 -At BYU September 19 -At October 23 -USC 
NC)TI~E IJ/~ME 
~ 
RADIO CAP 
$32.95 
Now see it and hear it . .. never miss a play. The amazing Radio Cap with it's built-in AMIFM radio is perfect for listening to your favorite team. AMUST 
_______ ....__
while attending the game! 
Mail to:

Name:._________________________________________ 
C. C. Enterprises 
Address:._____________________________________ P. 0. Box 2427 Durango, CO 81302 
City/St/Zip:.________________ 
-or call­(303)247 -8194 

MC/VISA #:.________________ 

Exp. Date:.____ Price includes shipping and batteries 
1995 
September 2 ­
NORTHWESTERN September 9 -At Purdue September 16 ­
VANDERBILT 

Se~ember23-TEXAS 
September 30 -At Ohio State October 7 -At 
Washington October 14 -At Army October 21 -USC October 28 -BOSTON 
COLLEGE November 4 -NAVY November 18 -AIR 
FORCE 
--~­

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, 1990
page 14 
DEPTH CHARTS , 

Irish Offense 
FLANKER 25 Raghlb Ismail 17 Shawn Davis TACKLE
(jl 73 Justin Hall 
~ 72 Joe Allen 
--~:t~
86 Derek Brown 74 Milko JurkoVfc 84 lrv Smith 60 Brian Shannon 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER p,
45 Darrin Smith 80 Derrick Golden MIDDLE LINEBACKER 
58 Michael Barrow 91 Oarrin Krelrn:· 
CORNERBACK ~ 16 Roland Smith CORNERBACK 47 Ryan McNeil STRONG SAFETY FREE SI&FETY 23 Robert Bailey
8 Hurlie Brown 31 Darty! Williams 
26 Herbert James
2 Charles Pharms 2 Charles Pharms 
* 

Backs 
Continued from page 7 
touchdown of his collegiate career Saturday. "They tell me the things I do wrong and how to improve every time. I'm very happy to be part of such a group, such talented players." 
Said Vaas: "The first thing that comes to my mind is Ryan Mihalko's overall knowledge of the game. That's a tremendous asset in meetings and practices. Ricky Watters's work ethic is exceptionally hard, and he won't run half-speed. Tony Brooks has a tremendous sense of competition, a tremendous drive to excel. 
"Take all three of those, each one a definitely outstanding trait, and have a young guy adopt each one, and he'd be one heck of a football player." 
Still, Holtz recently has ex­pressed concern about the po­tential of the running game to produce the big play. This was a vital aspect of the 1988 championship squad, which was running-rich with Mark Green, Anthony Johnson and the sophomores Brooks and Watters. 
"There were a couple of times this year when I felt if I had broken one more tackle, I could have broken away," said Brooks. 
But the lack of big plays does not concern Vaas as much, especially since the offense showed signs of producing some against Air Force, as in Rodney Culver's career-high 41­yard run and Jerome Bettis's 30-yard bolt. Ismail had a 64­yard touchdown run on a re­verse handoff against Purdue. 
"I see the whole offensive scheme and the role of the run­ning back as having changed since '88," said Vaas. "In '88, they were getting the ball pitched outside more, where this year they run inside more and are being asked to do something different. 
"We don't have the 185­pound backs anymore, either. We're more at 215, and being asked to go out there and fight for the five-to six-yard gain. There are different roles from two years ago. Of course, we're not completely satisfied, and we'd like to break a few." 

Ourprimeribis 
gradedonthecurve. 
$11.95 perperson. Alot of restaurants may be able to get top-grade prime beef. But nobody can seiVe it up like Marriott. Our chefs haveyearsof experience in turning choice cuts of beef into your favorite choices on the menu. Tender, juicy, full offlavor, 
and seiVed with,a fresh garden salad. All for just $11.95. Once you give us a try, the results will be written all overyourface. 
SOUTH BEND 

~arr1ott. 
121 North 51 joseph Street.. Souch Bend, lndiomil 46601 (219) 214·2000 

33 Greg lane 
27 George Poorman 29 John Covington 

MARIGOLD MARKET 
lET US PREPARE YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. SO YOU CAN ENJoy THE GAME! 

GRAPE. ~ClEVElAND 272·1922 

Irish Football '90 
page 15

Friday, October 19, 1990 
-
Rivalry 
continued from page 16 
And it was always difficult for any tnam to play in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I think two things about go­ing into South Bend to play," .Johnson said. "NumbAr one, I think it gives you a great feel­ing, almost chills, to go into a plac~e with so much history. Number two. there is a danger that you could be in awe of that history and tradition. and that can rAally hurt your perfor­mance because you might not be as confident as you would be on another campus." 
"My most vivid memory of that game is the pep rally when I said we would win," Holtz said. "I wnnt home and I thought 'Did I say that?"' 
A pre-game scuffle in the Photo courtesy Miami Sports Information 
tunnel added to the intensity Former Miami quarterback Steve Walsh had a 23-1 record as the 
and appeal of this rivalry. The starting quarterback. His only loss came in 1988 to Notre Dame. Notm Damn players were lined up along the back of the end­"I still have memories of my supposed last message to the zone when thA Miami players last game in South Bend," team was to beat Notre Dame. !waded toward the tunnel. A Johnson said. "The bottom line The 1989 game was billed as scuffle broke out and enough on that game is that we turned another national championship 
Photo courtesy Miami Sports Information 

mAdia attention followed to the ball over too many times to battle. Notre Dame was un­keep the series in the public eye really expect to beat a great beaten, while Miami had just 
Alonzo Highsmith scored four touchdowns for Miami in the 1984 game
well into the 21st century. team that went on to win the one loss. A victory there and 
against Notre Dame, a contest the Hurricanes won 31-13.
Notrp, Dame won that contAst national championship. It was a another against Colorado in the 31-30 when a two-point con­great college football game Orange Bowl would have as­championship with just one version pass by Miami late in There was controversy, but I sured the Irish of a second loss. the game was batted down by accepted the loss because we straight national championship. Two things are certain about Holtz Irish free safety Pat TArrell. The did not play well enough to A victory over Notre Dame and Saturday's game. The loser can 
continued from page 5
Irish won the national win." then a win in the Sugar Bowl spend the remainder of the sea­championship that season while Johnson left for the Cowboys against Alabama coupled with son watching others battle for the most playing time, so theposting a 12-0 record. following that season and his an Irish win over Colorado the title, and this will be the whole group is enthusiastic. Of
would have given the last game in the series. 
course, this is Miami week, soHurricanes the title. It was decided years ago that the enthusiasm is even greater.
1990 would be the last meeting After Monday practices, how­Miami won the game 27-10 between these two teams, years ever, no one player had particu­and went on to capture its sec­before the rivalry escalated to 
larly staked his claim to a
ond national championship in such a level. 
starting chance to slice apart
three years. It's a decision that has both the Miami defensive backfield. 
pros and cons. The rivalry gen­
"Lake Dawson looked im­

The Notre Dame-Miami game erates excitement, but it has pressive in practice yesterday,has decided the national cham­reached the point where the as did Ray Griggs. The Rocket is 
pionship for the past three hype overshadows the game. 
always incredible -he's the
years, and that streak might "I think it's time for a break," 
Rocket, you know. Derek
continue this season. Either Valdiserri said. "I think it really Brown is as good as ever, and
team could win the national needs a rest for awhile." 
Tony Smith, Adrian Jarrel and Shawn Davis have been doing well, too." 
PAlTii:S 
GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Gl1pe ~ • Mishawaka, IN 
255-5525 
, Urnvsrslt'i ~ ?;:-'<,.'.~all '••C1ana Toll ~<c::d 
------------------~O~o~ua~lla~s_____ 
NOTRE DAME 
0o3V

j 
91/2 ",Blue & Gold, Padded Top, 
Embroidered. 

• 
GOLF BAGS 
ONLY$17999 
NDSWEATERS 

Dinner for 2 ONLY$4999 
OFFER EXPIRES 10/28/90 

Save Over 
PRO GOLF 
$zso 
5901 N. GRAPE RD.

Fo~8 99 
Pi::ic any two Gourmet Sandwiches, two Gas den Salads, plus your choice of THE BRAND NAME SAVINGS STORE rr,.nch Fries or Onion Rings and 2 Min1-Sundaes. SCOTTSDALE MALL EXPIRES 10/31/90 1390 Ireland Rd. 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, October 19, 1990 page 16 
The history of war -on the football field 
Notre Dame,  
Miami create  
a monster  
By GREG GUFFEY  
Sports Editor  
In 1955, no one could have  
imagined the monster that was  
being created.  
Notre Dame and Miami met  
for the first time that season,  
with the Irish winning 14-0. It  
was a game and nothing more.  
Even a 28-21 Notre Dame  
victory in 1960 and a scoreless  
tie in 1965 didn't do anything to  
generate any interest in this  
series.  
In fact, no one really noticed  
much of a rivalry in the 1970s,  
when the two teams met every  
year except 1970. That was  
probably because Notre Dame  
won all nine of those contests.  
Nobody said anything about  
running up the score when the  
Irish beat the Hurricanes 44-0  
in 1973 while on their way to  
winning the national champi­ 
onship. Nobody said anything  
about running up the score in  
1977 when the Irish pounded  
the Hurricanes 48-10 on their  
way to winning another na­ 
tional championship.  
"If you just look at the scores,  
you can see that nobody could  
have predicted it would have  
turned into this type of series,"  
longtime Notre Dame Sports  
Information Director Roger  
Valdiserri said.  
But the mid and late 1980s Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Information  
were special. They brought par­ The Notre Dame players celebrate after scoring a touchdown in the 31-30 and went on to win the national championship with a perfect 
ity and na,tional championships,  1988 battle with Miami in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish won that game record. Miami defeated Notre Dame in 1989 on its way to the title.  
taunting and tunnel fights, hype  
and claims of running up the  
score.  Notre Dame Head Coach Lou  the game and passed for a  offense scored every time we  Whether Miami ran up the  
"They were down for a time  Holtz said.  touchdown in the closing  touched the ball. It was simply  score or not, revenge was def­ 
and then they came back when  Schnellenberger took a Miami  minutes of the game.  a perfect performance by a very  initely on the minds of the Irish.  
(Howard) Schnellenberger went  team that was 14-29 over the  There were claims that Miami  talented team."  But they would have to wait  
down there," Valdiserri said. "I  previous four seasons and  coach Jimmy Johnson, now the  For Faust, the game was a  two years since the teams did  
don't think you can just look at  tranformed it into a national  coach of the Dallas Cowboys,  disappointing end to a roller­ not play in 1986.  
the scores. It's the intensity  power. In the process, the  ran up the score and that he  coaster career as the Notre  That 1987 game was also  
with which the games have  Hurricanes and Irish laid the  tried to embarass Gerry Faust  Dame coach.  played in the Orange Bowl, and  
been played."  groundwork for the rivalry.  in his final game as Notre Dame  "It really hasn't affected me a  Miami won 24-0 on its way to a  
In short, the 1980s brought  In 1982, former Notre Dame  coach.  lot," said Faust, whose Akron  perfect season and the national  
the possibly the greatest mod­ Coach Gerry Faust beat Miami  "The most controversial game  team will play Miami in the mid  championship. The greatest ri­ 
ern-day rivalry in collegiate  for the first time, 16-14 on a  was the 1985 game, where  1990s. "The fact that I wasn't  valry in collegiate football now  
football. Forget Alabama and  last-second field goal. The  some felt like we scored mote  going to be coaching at Notre  consisted of two Miami victories  
Auburn, Ohio State and  Hurricanes won the next two  than we should have against  Dame anymore was a lot  by a combined score of 82-7.  
Michigan, Oklahoma and  years, 20-0 and 31-13.  Gerry Faust's last team,"  tougher than the loss itself. If  But the Irish luck would  
Nebraska. Those are regional  But the surprising part of this  Johnson says now. "I think the  you lose by seven points or by  change in 1988, when Miami  
rivalries.  rivalry is that it really became  point that was missed in all the  fifty points, you still lose. I can  traveled to Notre Dame  
Notre Dame and Miami have  heated during one of the most­ controversy that surrounded  understand where Miami was  Stadium for the first time in  
created a national rivalry, one  lopsided games in the series. In  the game was that we had a  coming from because they  four years. It was the most­ 
that generates more interest  1985, the Hurricanes pounded  great team and we played as  wanted to win the national  hyped game of the 1980s, and it  
across America than any other  the Irish 58-7. It wasn't so  flawless a game as any team  championship. But if it had  was the only game in the series  
college football game.  much the huge margin of  that I've ever been around. We  been me on the other side, I  that lived up to its billing.  
"This rivarly has definitely  victory but the fact that Miami  scored on defense. We scored  still would have played the  
caught the fancy of the nation,"  played its starters for most of  on the kicking game, and our  younger kids."  see RIVALRY/page 15  


Greg Guffey 
Sports Editor 

e 13 




a 
re-up ed he T­he 
0, 
de on le, 

Wednesday, the total had risen to more than 15,000, of which 5,845 of them had been pur­chased solely by students and faculty through hall and staff representatives. The students have also worn their shirts each day this week by class, and will wear them again, together, at the game. 
"The student response has just been phenomenal," said Joe Cassidy, Director of Student Activities. "I have to give credit to all the hall representatives who have volunteered. It's not the greatest time for them with midterms, but they keep coming by once or twice a day to pick up more shirts." He added that the most difficult 
aspect of selling the shirts is 
The art of 
ND 
bashing 
keeping up with the demand for them. 
The shirts, according to Cassidy, have produced almost $50,000 in pure profit so far, and he projects that at least 19,000 will have been sold by the time Notre Dame kicks off with Miami, increasing the profit to better than $70,000. 
"This is a concentration on helping the family," Cassidy ex­plained. "This money is for Zheng-de's continued rehabili­tation and therapy, and to help the family out in any other pos­sible way." 
But the aid reaches beyond the T-shirts. Notre Dame Alumni from across the nation 
see Cause I page 14 

By ROBYN SIMMONS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
A 
kinder, gentler Miami? After five years of 
frenzied rivalry 

between Notre Dame and the 
University of Miami, the 
Hurricanes are dead-set on 
beating Notre Dame, but they 
are not as hell-bent on hating 
Notre Dame as they were last 
season. 
"Last year the rivalry might 
have been a little more intense 
because there were national 
championship implications," 
said Kevin Brockway, Sports 
Editor for Miami's student 
newspaper, The Miami 
Hurricane. 
"Last year the attitude was 
revenge," said President of the 
Undergraduate Student Gov­
ernment Irwin Raij. "It wasn't 
in a bad way; it was just be­
cause we lost the year before." 
When Notre Dame won the 
1988 National Championship, it 
was an incentive for Miami to 
defeat Notre Dame the follow­
ing season. Last year the ani­
mosity between the two schools 
peaked on Miami's campus. 
According to Raij. the 
"Catholics vs. Convicts" T­
shirts that made their debut on 
Notre Dame's campus in 1988 
provoked Miami fans to come 
up with a few T -shirts of their 
own. 
Last season one T-shirt 
showed Miami students how to 
make an Irish Daiquiri. The 
shirt featured the leprechaun in 
a blender with Miami's mascot, 
Sebastian the Ibis, turning on 
the blender. After Miami won 
the 1989 National Champi­
onship, one T -shirt proclaimed 
"God made Notre Dame #1­
But UM made them #2." 
One T -shirt from this season 
features an ND football player 
hunched over and kneeling. The 
caption on the front is, "Start 
Praying" and the back of the 
shirt reads, "Only God can stop 
a Hurricane." 
"A lot of (T-shirts) play on 
the religious aspect," said 
Brockway, "In some ways it's 
funny, in some ways it's not." 
Just as 1988 was the year of 
Hate Miami and Jimmy Johnson 
on this campus, 1989 was a 
prime year for Notre Dame 
bashing at Miami on T-shirts 
and by columnists in The Hur­
ricane. Everything from the 
team's golden helmets to Lou 
Holtz was fair game. 
At the beginning of the 1989 
season, one of The Hurricane's 
contributing editors Dan Le 
Batard had this to say, "There 
are, after all, only 81 days until 
the University of Miami plays 
Notre Dame again in football. 
Eighty-one days. Circle it on your calendars and pin it on your foreheads. Nov. 25." 
According to a Nov 21, 1989 column by Todd Cline, another contributing editor, ". . . this year the Irish are grubby, not the clean cut, can-do-no-wrong kids their coach, Sir Lou (say that real fast backwards) Holtz or their university would wish for us and the rest of the coun­try to think. Remember: it's only a matter of inches and those haloes become nooses." 
In a column celebrating Miami's national championship victory, Le Batard said, "(Lou Holtz) is a big fan of contradiction. No, I take that back. He is a puny fan of contradiction who is also unattractive." 
The Orange Bowl wasn't ex­actly a safe haven for ND fans last year when Miami defeated Notre Dame 27 -10. Missie Va­lencia, a 1981 Saint Mary's graduate, says that a few Mi­ami fans stole her watch and kicked her sister in the stomach as thev left the stadium. 
"We were being very quiet 
walking out of that stadium. I 
mean they hound you and they 
taunt you," said Valencia, 
"They hate Notre Dame. It's 
not just rivalry, they hate us." 
That was then, this is now. 
Has there been any change in 
Miami's attitude towards Notre 
Dame? According to Raij, this 
year the rivalry is not as in­
tense. 
"It's changing. Everything is 
very positive," said Raij, "I 
think the athletic department 
tried to stress sportsmanship." 
"I think everyone's trying to say, Yeah, it's going to be fun .. .but take it in perspective, it's just a football game." he said. 
"People will be pumped and people will be yelling and screaming at their TV screens all over UM's campus," said Raij, "The feeling on campus is the game is big but I haven't seen a lot of derogatory stuff on campus." 
Even though Notre Dame and Miami won't be on each other's season schedule for the next few years, Notre Dame will al­ways have Michigan and Miami will always have Florida State University. 
Will this be the last time the Fighting Irish and the Hurri­canes go head to head? 
"Well, there are always bowl games," said Brockway, "I think it's a real shame that the rivalry has been discontinued. I just hope we get the last laugh." 
--~-----------~ ~---~~--·-----~--­
page 14 The Observer Friday, October 19, 1990 
last week to which, according Dame familv...hut it's with a to Cassidy, response has been project like this that you really
Cause A view from the eye 
exceptional. The story has also see it come together."continued from page 13 been broadcasted by WSBT's have sent donations, churches radio station numerous times, Long and short-sleeved shirts have sent collections taken at picked up by the Indianapolis can be purchased from either 
of The Hurricane 
mass and companies have Star, the Associated Press and the Graduate Student's Union, 
By ROBERT MILLER 

called, wishing to supply CBS. Regis Philbin even dis­the Alumni Association Office, News Editor, The Miami Hurricane ranked number two in the na­
wheelchairs and other such played the shirts on his talk the Athletic Departments, 
tion, and Notre Dame is the means of comfort for Zheng-de show, "Live with Regis and LaFortune, the Notre Dame aturday's football only real obstacle left. It's not a and his family. "People are just Kathy Lee." Bookstore, the individual halls matchup between war anymore. It's just an im­popping out of the woodwork," on campus, St. Joesph's Miami and Notre Dame portant game. Cassidy exclaimed. "A lot of folks have come to­Hospital or St. Paul's once again is going to "I don't think it's so intense
S 

In addition, a toll-free num­gether to help him [Zheng-de]," Retirement Center, where be the most important game of because we beat them last ber was broadcasted at the end Cassidy stated. He added, Zheng-de is currently undergo­the year in college football. For year," junior Jorge Sotelo said, 
of Lou Holtz's press conference "People often refer to the Notre ing therapy. 
the third straight year. this "Plus, it's an away game. It's game will set the stage for the hard to get psyched about an national championship deci­away game."
sion. 

"Besides, they lost to 
But, this will be the last time. 
Stanford," sophomore Jeff "We are going to miss beating Davis added, "I think we can them up every year," senior 
take them...even in South 
Robert Marshall said, "I can see Bend." why they don't want to play us 
The football players-com­anymore." 
pletely out of character-are 
The rivalry between the two 
also keeping the hype to a teams will be missed. 
minimum. Randall "Thrill" Hill 
"I am very sorry this great one of the Hurricane's most 
sports tradition is ending," UM 
"vocal" players, refused to 
President Edward T FootP II comment on the game.said. "Some of the funnest 
"I got nothing to say," Hill hours of my presidency came said Thursday. out of it. ..especially in South 
The only thing that really has Bend." 
Miami fans up in arms, is the But, this year, for Miami fans "Catholics vs. Convicts" T-shirt 
anyway, the rivalry between the being sold in South Bend. 
two schools has lost some of its "They are doing that again?"
appeal. 

senior Sherri Langerman
"It's not so much that we 
asked, "Can't they get anything 
want to beat Notre Dame," 
more original?"freshman Scott Carter said, "It's The campus is generally low­that we want another national 
key about it, but you can be 
championship." 

sure everyone in South Florida "The Hurricanes are no will be glued to their television 
longer fearful of the Irish luck," sets Saturday afternoon for the said Tom Higgins, the UM last Irish-'Canes battle duringStudent Government press their regular season play. secretary, "The campus is qui­By the way, Miami fans have 
~ eter this year, but that does not their own T-shirt.
S. mean we are not interested in It says, "Start Praying Notre 0 Dame...Only God can stop a
this game." 
c::: 

"When officials of the two schools met in a sort of • 'love feast' to smoo1h some of the bitterness prior to the'·· 1989 game, Notre Dame officials reportedly told Miami people 4~ that if an opportunity arose, the Hurricanes might get back on the schedule sooner•• , In strictly my opinion, that :d'''':~·. supposed love-feast agreement collapsed on the turf of the Orange Bowl last Nov. 25 when 1he Miami football team en masse marched 
over to 1he Notre Dame bench and openly taunted the football Irish.~ -Joe DoylcJ't column, SOutb Bend Tribune, Oct. 17, 1990. 
-· '4¥k" "'It is the best rivalry in college football.' said Miami coach Dennis erickson. 'Two pf 1he best 
prograrr~s!frthe courniy~'P!ayjng 
each o1hei. You just llatt:to see a rivalry like that and, It's 1he kind of rivalry that college football alive.'" 
-Chicago Trtbun Oct. 17, 1990. 
"i¥l¥118f,; 
"Despite 1he fact both teams come in with a loss, word out of South Bend is that it's 1he toughest single sports ticket to gettbis"year. ltaiso promises to beam' most-watchE!d game season, as Notre Dame will attempt to avenge last year's 27-1 0 Thanksgiving Weekend plucking}!l the Orange Bowl." 
-Mitf'MCllt$0n, FoQt~IJ News 1990,~t~23,1990.,JI_*"A. \! 
~VN H!i@(W&:· 
C......... lty ElbiiiMth VW. 
The Hurricanes are presently Hurricane."
~------------------------~--~~-----------------------------J~ 
March onward Christian soldiers 
American tragedy. tailed 60,000. The GermanWWI, of course, was a count­
Kruschev. the Russian army also suffered greatly,
less number of wars ago; but it 
premier at the time of the though this wasn't known until
was the the kind of war in Father Robert Griffin 
Cuban Missile Crisis, told us, after the war was over.
which soldiers, hunkering down 
" 
"We will bury you." President Were there Domers fighting
in the trenches for weeks, even Letters to a Lonely God 
Kennedy wouldn't tell us it in the battle of the Somme? The
months, at a time, had the 
couldn't happen. Prophecies of memorial doorway on the
leisure to write poetry; they were much more on the move in Jar structure into an annex to phe. "Holocaust," the Jews say, gloom and doom always sound Domeside of Sacred Heart later wars. the Stonehenge peace shrine; "taken strictly, means a burnt silly; yet all of us have grown Church doesn't give us that in­
up, or grown old, fearful that formation. Yet the helmet thatSome of the poetry is and that's a good thing, isn't offering." 
some nuclear superpower could serves that entrance as a lamp­devotional, obscuring the awful it? I mean, if those ROTC pro­The connotation of this-as turn our country into a nation shade was worn by a doughboytruth that war is hell: "Red grams had never existed, some Christian theologians, in WWI; it helps us remember
fangs have torn His face./ God's wouldn't the University feel who also promote pacifism, of hostages; a banana republic blood is shed./he mourns from obliged to invent them? admit-is that the six million could even do it with drugs. those who gave their lives in a his lone place/His children To say it's sweet to die for deaths were a type of sacrifice If Notre Dame can save busi­long-ago war fought in a far­dead." your country may be a lie. It's on behalf of the rest of the hu­ness majors from becoming away place. Some of the poetry is roman­an even greater lie to say you man race. In other words, the mere acolytes in the temple of Those who choose to serve 
~ 
.... tic and lush with idealism: "I could have avoided the risk of term "Holocaust" almost legit­Commerce, it can train young their country as soldiers of have a rendezvous with dying. How can we ignore the imizes the act of the murderers, patriots to be gentlemen war­peace, unacquainted with bat­Death/At midnight in some lessons we were taught by the who, it would appear, were riors, who are either hawks or tlefields, are entitled to respect. flaming town,/When Spring Jews? simply carrying out God's mis­doves. Will it be part of Notre Dame's trips north again this year/And Rabbi Hesche! wrote: sions. The rabbis tell their con­Perhaps the hawks can be greatness as a Christian uni­I to my pledged word am true/ I "Bloodshed has always been an gregations that God weeps for taught gentleness, and the versity if the students of the shall not fail that rendezvous." abomination to the Jews: and the Jews when they're treated doves can be fed intravenous 1990s were to swear their al­
Some of the poetry is grim for two thousand years, they like animals, and I believe the with raven's blood. We should legiance to a non-violent cross; and didactic: "If you could did not raise a sword in self-de­rabbis. pray that all of them live, un­would this make them more hear, at every jolt, the fence. When the leader of Nazi "Peace upon earth!" was said. troubled, to a peaceful old age. 
blood/Come gargling from the Germany announced his inten­"We sing it/ And pay a million Perhaps the ROTC building Christian than the lads, now froth-corrupted lungs/Obscene tion to exterminate our peo­priests to bring it./After two should be regarded as a jaunty buried under the poppies in as cancer, bitter as the cud/Of ple ... we did not believe it. the thousand years of mass/We've step in the direction of peace. Flanders iield, who attended vile, incurable sores on inno­Holocaust left us unprepared... got as far as poison gas." Could it not be the University's Notre Dame when it was a po­
cent tongues,--/My friend, you In 1967, the ruler of Egypt and Poison gas is what the Jews are way of saying, "I believe the dunk school waiting to meet would not tell with such high his allies mobilized vast armies threatened with now by their country needs officers. we can Rockne? zest/To children ardent for equipped with deadly neighbors. Must Christians be­train the brightest and best"? The Domers who died in some desperate glorytrhe old weapons... A war of extermina­lieve that it is God's will that A humane officer has other France as patriots bought their 
Lie: Dulce et decorum est/Pro tion was about to be un­His chosen people should sub­loves than the love of battle and country a generation of peace. patria mori." leashed...What was there to be ject themselves to another the smell of napalm in the The servicemen who went to 
Some Domer might have ap­done? To disbelieve Nasser the Sho'ah, rather than bear arms morning air, and the should Vietnam were their blood propriately read these well­way we disbelieved Hitler?" against the Iraqis? have a respect for all things brothers; but of course the sol­known lines of Wilfred Owen at Shakespeare wrote: "A man Christians would be replacing human, lovely, and true. If he diers of Vietnam felt betrayed 
the dedication of the new ROTC can die but once: we owe God a the 'old Lie," exposed by the has no regard fur God, or fam­by the Flower Children of the building-just as the class vale­death...he that dies this year is peace poets, with a new lie ily, or the decent opinion of 1970s. Do the Flower Children dictorian read them to his quit for the next." Is it our dy­that's even more dangerous mankind, he can't show others of the 1990s abuse the new Notre Dame classmates and ing that makes war offensive to than the original, if they tell the kind of sensitivity he may ROTC building as the landmark their parents at an honors the conscience, or is it the you in anything more than a mistakenly regard as weak­of a government which trains assembly during the Vietnam killing which makes us respon­conjectural way that a nation ness. students to burn babies? unpleasantness. Some of the sible for others dying? of non-violent Jews is holier On July 1st 1916, the British Could this mean the dead parents only booed the young Given a choice between killing than a nation of Jews defended army on the Somme attacked who perished in earlier wars scholar; others turned their or being killed, six million Jews by freedom fighters. the German army along a might look less like heroes? backs on him, or walked out. went like defenseless sheep to Pacifists are usetul in keeping twenty-mile front. The resulting Would our local Stonehenge, 
Continued attacks on the the slaughter. Survivors of the the Pentagon honest; but battle was the turning point of then, become more and more of ROTC programs at Notre Dame camps refuse to call this un­Christians who consider them­the war. and before it was over, a mockery, because the war would seem to be a waste of paralleled mass murder the selves too Christlike to play war there were 600,000 casualties, dead were killers who hurt breath; obviously, the "Holocaust," preferring to use games could be the friends of two-thirds of whom were Christ by their patriotism? University cannot be persuaded the Hebrew term Sho'ah, which our nation's enemies. British. During the first day These are questions which the 
to convert that six million-dol-means destruction or catastro-Armageddon could be an alone, the British losses to-poets haven't answered yet. 
Friday, October. 19, 1990 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office,
Classifieds Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be ­
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES  Lost: Gold chain and cross shaped medal. Please call Brian x3001.  For Sale,Cheap Plane Ticket to FLORIDA, for Fall Break,Call Vinc·e 1396  I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE I My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at  NEED 1 Miami STUD or GA-Call Kevin at 233-8959  4 SALE 2MIAMI STUD BEST OFFER #4635  
TYPING AVAILABLE  xt809.  
287-4082  Need 4 Miami GAs (together  
NOW OPEN/ BED & BREAKFAST Rooms available for all N/D  FOUND: "precious" stone outside SCH Call Ken 239-5611 to Identify.  Round-trip ticket to San Jose leaving 10/19, returning 10/29 $250/ x3958-leave a message  NEED GA TIX FOR MIAMI. 1-800-323-7687 RANDY. WILL PAY TOP$$$.  or pairs) call Man #2052  I need Miami tix! Tim 271-8795  
events. IDEAL for family/ fans/ business associates from out-of-town. Minutes from N/D & toll road exit #83. 219-273-038811-800-669­ FOUND: LADY'S BROWN TORTOISE SHELL GLASSES  0 SAY CAN YOU SEE 2 MIAMI-PENN (ST) 4 THEE #1619 & ASK FOR LEE  NEED MIAMI GA'S. BIG$$$. CALL 233-4693.  Need Miami ticket (stu or GA) for my linle sister. Please call Steve x2366  Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x1581. Will beat any offer.  
0388  LEFT ON TUESDAY IN  We Have 2 MIAMI Stud tix.  
COUNTRY HARVESTER IN  EXECUTIVE COUNTRY  HELPIIII NEED PENN ST. GA'S  Please call 289-6046.  Need Miami Stud & GAs.  
LAFORTUNE.  RETREAT.  AND STUDS.  Call Man @ 273-1849  
4 BR, 2400 SF on 3.6 acre +  PLEASE CALL JOHN X2352  
knock knock ..  pond. $123,900.  X2384  Miami stud. tic for sale  
who's there? the grace hall run  WANTED  RE/MAX 1 00 Realty 255-5858. Mary Jo Shively 277-2279.  call Nick@ 277-2736  $$$ FOR ANY TXS TO MIAMI GAME GAISTUDENT. H-203-953­ 
who?  8571, W-203-677 -8556.  
the grace hall 24 hour run  FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TIK  One Penn stud tic for sale  
October 19-20 noon-noon  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000  FOR SALE LOVELY  CALL-JIM 288-2743  Call Joe@289-t769  
mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA  TOWNHOUSE IN FARMINGTON. 1843' of formal living, plus 1468'  I will pay $280 for your 2 Miami GA's Call Bob 289-0922  
92625.  finished in basement. 3 bedrooms,  NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD.  miami tx for sale  
2-1/2 baths, First Floor Master  PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-9338  best offer  Need Miami ST Tickets?  
!Fellowship and Fun!  Suite. 2 Car All. Gar. 10 mins from  eileen x4161  Call 271-0852  
Inter-Varsity meeting  WANTED: 6 Pin, 6 Penn St.,  Campus.  After 8.30 PM.  
7:30p.m. Friday  4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364  Call for private showing ...Noreen  I have 1 MIAMI stud. ticket to sell­ 
Stanford Chapel  O'Brien-Ladewski 234-5429.  call Chrissy x3958 -leave a  1 Miami student ticket for sale to  
RE/MAX 100 -255-5858.  message and phone #  best offer. Chris x3033.  
Need one Miami GA. Please call  
Make Money Watching T.V. I  258-4324.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  EXCITING new method. Amazing  TV FOR SALE!!! 12-inch, black­ Need 4 std. GA's for Miami.  
219-291-7153  24 hour recorded message reveals details. Call512-585-4808  and-white, portable television set for salE!'. Excellent condition.  Should be in groups of 2 or 4. Ph. 233-2651.  Need 2 Miami GA's x3791  NEED MIAMI STUDS/GAS BAD PLEASE CALL X3028 $$$$$  
Ext. 101.  Make me an offer (trust me, I'm a  
Need a ride to HARRISBURG?  VERY reasonable guy). Call  FOR SALE-MIAMI STUD. TICK.  
Gomg 10/21. Call X4900  x 1208 and leave an offer for Paul.  HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC  3 Miami stud tix 4 sale  CALL AFTER 5 -288-9545  
HELPII need ride to PITT after  CHRIS X3482  288-8927  
Miami $ JoAnne 1275  
Typing  rt plane ticket 58 to Houston  Need Miami student ticket  NEED MIA GA'S ·cALL DAVE  
Pickup & Delivery  leaving 10/19 returning 10/29.  4 SALE:  Dennis 271-9323  X1407  
277-7406  $120 I call284-4094. must be  MIAMIGA'S  
NEED RIDE TO PHILLYI  female.  MIAMI STUDENTS  
X3191 Juan  X1167  FOR SALE: MIAMI STUDENT  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949  TICKETS  ••••LAST CHANCE••••­ TIX. REASONABLE PRICE CALL JOHN X1698  
I NEED MIAMI & PENN ST GA'S  1 stud. MIAMI ticket  
Wanted: Keyboard player for  BRIAN 2049  for sale.  
JUST SAYNOI  N.D. hockey games. Please call  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  JOSE #2248  HELPII MUST SELL MIAMI  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's  239-5227.  GAM ES.272-6306  STUD. TIXIII GOOD PRICE I  
Books, corner of ND ave. &  NEED MIAMI TIX  X2594  
Howard. 233-2342  
wanted: financial support($)  Need:  CALL2210  
for the 1990 GRACE HALL  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  FOR SALE: MIAMI STUD TIC  
Professional Word Processing  24 hour run.  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME  WANTED: MIAMI STUD. TIX  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  X4243  
Serv1ces. When SPEED,  Please contribute ($) to help  GAMES I  2 MIAMI GA'S  CALL 273-1364  
FORMAT, STYLE, and  the Northeast Neighborhhood  PLEASE CALL x1840  Need Penn St. tix.  
ACCURACY are vital ... let THE  Center  CALL JOE X1688  2 GA's and 1 student.  
HOME OFFICE help Call 234­ October 1 9 & 20 at the  Monday-Thursday  NEED MIAMI GA'SI!!!!!I!III  Jay X2290  
3891 , ask for Kristi.  Memorial Fountain  3:30-6:30  Selling  
2 Stu Miami Tixs  JUST WON THE LOTIERY-­ I need 2 Miami GAs  
I NEED A RIDE TO D.C. AREA  FOR RENT  255-5283  I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS Ill  Bill x4274  
FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE  ND GRAD and wife from Calif.  MIAMI STUDENT TIX  wanted:  
EXPENSES, ETC. CALL INGO AT  NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami  CALL 288-2956  PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE  three tickets (G.A. or stud.)  
289-4860  1 BDRM. EFFICIENCY APT.  Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625.  CALL CATHY AT 273-9624  to Penn State game. Call Marc at x2358.  
$160/MO. CLOSE TO ND. 702  FOR SALE  
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS  HILL ST. 277-0873.  50 yd. line stud. ticket  Wealthy Alumni  FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI STUD.  
UNIVERSITY TEACHING  Need 2 GA's for Penn St  for THE MIAMI game Ill  Desparately Need  TIX. CALL X2094  
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST  call Ryan x1048  Call John @ X3895  Miami Tix  
STUDENTS IN ECON  STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK  Call Tim x2015  
,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153  AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 8PM  FOR SALE:  .#%@#$% MIAMI STUD. TIX FOR SALE Ill  $$$$$$$$$$$$  I need PITI tickets desperately. If you have some you want to sell,  
LOST/FOUND  4 Student and 2 Married Student Miami Tix  call Eric xt575 btwn 12:00-3:00 after 11:00  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X3797  please call Kathy x4937.  
TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE?  DAVE X3024  BEST OFFER II!  I need 2 PURDUE GA's $$$  
MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND  .#%@#$%  call Joe X1599  
LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses  BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK  NEED PITISBURGH GA's  
in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. If found, please call Rene 277­ CALL JANE 271-1920  FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home  NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL  CALL MATI #1159  Miami and Penn State stud. tickets. Call Bob 273-1442  
9468. Reward offered.  games.  TOM  
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable  273-0302  Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scon at  Help!! Need Penn State GAs. Call  
and secure apts: 1 bdrm-$275  Call Joe Xt688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM  283-1818 and leave a message.  Michael at 258-1 024 before 9pm and I'll make you an offer that you  
HELPI HELP! HELPI HELPIIIIIIIIIIILOST:  3 bdrm-$380 dep., references 616-483-9572.  NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI,  MIAMI AND PENN ST. STUDS 4 SALE! CALL NOW X2546  MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! Divorced Alum Dad in Houston  can't refuse, or leave a message and I'll make your day.  --.  
BROWN COACH I.D. HOLDER AND KEY CHAIN HOOKED  FOR SALE  PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 234-7644  2 MIAMI & PENN ST TIX FOR  has plane, car, and hotel. Need Miami Tix for GAME on son's 12th  2 Miami GA's FOR SALE  
TOGETHER. LOST NEAR  SALE 272-6459  Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only  CALL Mike x3216  
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS  need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­ 
BUILDING.  IS IT TRUE ...JEEPS FOR $44  We have tickets to all  7604 after 7.  
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  THROUGH THE U.S. GOVT?  HOME games ! !  I need Miami Ga'sll  
PLEASE HELP ME FIND IT.  CALL FOR FACTS!  HELP and call 288-0597  I NEED 8 PENN ST. GA's AND  
THEY ARE VERY IMPORTANT  504-649-5745 EXT. 5-6840  call Estevan or Ritchie  ALL I HAVE IS $$$ CALL TIM  !!!!11!111111111111111!1 HELP  
AND VITAL TO MY LIFE  @2275  @283-2704  I!IIIIIIIII!IIJIIIIIIII  
FUNCTIONING. ALL OF MY  
I. D.'S AND KEYS ARE ON IT. I  2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE X2778  THIS IS A CATHOLIC  I WILL PAY YOU LOTS OF  NEED 2 MIAMI GA  I NEED 2 MIAMI GAs FOR MY  
CAN'T GO HOME WITHOUT IT.  UNIVERSITY ­ MONEY FOR 4 PENN ST. GA's.  #2790  PARENTS! I AM A SENIOR AND  
IF YOU HAVE SEEN IT PLEASE  HELP THE NEEDY­ CALL FLO x1696  IT IS THERE LAST CHANCE TO  
CALL ME OR. RETURN IT-ANY  Plane Ticket: SBN to HTFD  NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud  Need Miami student tix. badly I  SEE A GAME! PLEASE HELP  
PART OF ITI  Saturday Eve. Must Sell I  HAVE MERCY!!!  2 MIDFIELD SEATS -NO-USC.  Call Paul at x1755  ME!  
$REWARD$$REWARD$REWAR  Jim X1353  MIKI 284-4386  (213) 273-9400, ROSLYN.  
D$ TO THE WONDERFUL  I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA'sll  CALL ANN at 283-4872  
PERSON WHO FINDS IT AND  I NEED MIAMI TICKETS I CALL  call Kathleen@ 4081  
RETURNS IT TO ME  1977 BUICK SKYHAWK  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI  TOM@ X2259.  1!111!1!!11!1111111111! HELP  
CALL MELISSA AT X2580  Hatchback, runs great! New parts. $650(or 8.0.) 288-0426  ROSIE 4025  •••• SELLING ••••  NEED MIAMI GAs JOE X1761  111111111111111111111111  
X2580 X2580 X2580 WHEN YOU  2 MIAMI TICKETS: Two  Selling 2 Miami std tickets  
FIND ITIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  SALE  ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S  married student tickets on  A CORPORATE PROBLEM.  Call Luis 273-1528  
4 Miami Grad. Stud. Tix  FOR FAMILY. Call collect at  40yrd. line. Call 282-9399,  NEED 9 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL  
Row 17 x1290  night 601-362-2339 or  leave name, #, and offer by  PAY$$$. 1-262-4990.  
X3140 for questions.  10-19-1990.  NEED MIAMI STUDS 277-8379  
I CAN'T PAY HIGH SCUMMY  CALL BEFORE 3PM FRIDAYIIII  - 
I lost my wallet October 17.  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S  2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE  Need 1 Miami GA x3791  SCALPER PRICES, BUT CAN  1 MIAMI STUD. TIX FOR  
If you find it, please call Joe at 2480 or 2456. Reward offered.  FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­ CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT 277-9406  AFFORD A FAIR $40 PER TICKET FOR G.A'S FROM A  SALE-CALL JOE AT X4062  
Thank you  1364  NEED 4 MIAMI GA's CALL x2012  DESCENT PERSON. CALL 272 9602 AFTER 7:00-JEFF  see CLASS 1 page 17  

-
---------~------~-~-----~­
page 16 The Observer Friday; October 19, 1990 
Canseco and LaRussa have it out after A's loss 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­After losing a critical fly ball in the wind, Jose Canseco got caught smack in the eye of Tony La Russa's hurricane. 
But there's no storm brewing on the defending World Series champions. 
Hurricane Tony touched down on Canseco after the Oakland Athletics were beaten 5-4 in 10 innings in Game 2 of the World Series Wednesday night to go down 0-2 to Cincinnati. 
La Russa and Canseco met for 55 minutes while the A's went through their workout Thursday. Canseco took one turn at batting practice, and La Russa only came out on the field after the practice. 
"This is not a major incident," Canseco said. "I don't want this getting in the wrong hands and having it blown out of proportion." 
After Game 2, La Russa ques­tioned Canseco's play on Billy Hatcher's eighth-inning triple, which led to the Reds scoring the tying run. 
With the A's leading 4-3, Hatcher led off the eighth in­ning by hitting a fly ball to deep right field. After a slow start, Canseco raced back to the warning track, raised his glove, but was only able to deflect the ball. 
Hatcher raced all the way to third before the A's retrieved the ball. He scored Cincinnati's tying run two batters later on pinch-hitter Glenn Braggs's bouncer up the middle. 
"That ball has to be caught," La Russa said after the game. "If you want to win the game, you have got to make that play. . . . He did not get a good jump on the ball and I don't know why." 
Later, back in his office, La Russa said, "If he gets a decent jump, any kind of decent jump, he catches that ball." 
When informed of La Russa's critique of the play, Canseco was steamed. 
"Well, if that's what he says, that's his problem," the slugger said. "If he's going to hang the game on one play, he's totally wrong." 
Canseco went on to say the comments did not sound like LaRussa. 
"That's definitely out of char­acter," Canseco said. "Have you ever heard Tony make a statement like that against one of his players? 
"But you always blame the guy who makes the most be­cause he's the one who is sup­posed to be doing the most. ... When you're frustrated you say a lot of things." 
La Russa said after Thursday's practice that maybe he's guilty of over­estimating Canseco's abilities. 
"I have a tendency to think there's not too much he can't do out there," La Russa said. "Maybe I expect too much from him.... In a nine-inning game or a 10-inning game there are a lot of things that decides who wins. I'm not saying that was the only thing that cost us the game." 
However, Dave Stewart said after Game 2 that he thought Canseco appeared distracted . 
"I think too many other things are becoming an interference for him to concentrate for a whole nine innings," Stewart said. "Mainly, battling with umpires and questioning balls and strikes. You can't concentrate on what you have to do up there. His concentration level is just shot." 
When asked Wednesday night if he thought Canseco appeared distracted, La Russa said, "I agree. I think distracted is a good word." 
Stewart declined to comment on the incident Thursday. 
·When he finally did appear for the practice Thursday, Canseco said his meeting with La Russa went "great." 
"We talked about baseball and stuff," Canseco said, smil­ing. 
When asked if he thought the criticism was warranted, Canseco said, "I don't think anybody is criticizing anybody on this team. It's nothing new. ... I felt I got a good jump on the ball." 
La Russa said his postgame comments were no more than his view of the play. 
"One thing I've tried to do is keep my credibility," La Russa said Thursday. 

AP F't"ol:l 
A's slugger Jose Canseco and manager Tony LaRussa exchanged some heated words after the A's loss to the Reds on Wednesday. 
Class continued from page 16 Will trade 2 TN TIX PLUS $$$ For 3 TN TIX together. Call Mike 202-955-6616. NEED 1 MIAMI GA OR STUD. X4141  ANSWER: Over Fall break, this Flanner Tower section 10-A sophomore will journey to Chicago to show his talent for trivia in his quest to represent Notre Dame in the Annual College Jeopardy Tournament. QUESTION: Who is Paul Pearson?  What animal can survive a Hurricane attack? AN IRISH SHARK! U.S. Shark returns on Oct 20! HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY JIM FERRICK!! Sorry there is no picture, I missed the deadline! I hope you have a great birthday! I Love, Liz  'NOOPSTER!!! Is this the man who wrrrecked the buffet? Go Away ... You Goon! No shame. skr-OOOD!! Look at you! Pizza? You know you want it (snap)! (snap)!  LOST!!! On Oct. 20.0ne female. answers to the name of Mary, Bernard,or Slug.Was last seen at Coaches/Club 23/Senior Bar (circle appropriate one). If found, please return to 445 Lewis. It's her 21st Birthday and her roommates are concerned about her safety. REWARD OFFERED NO QUESTIONS ASKED  ATIENTION: To all of you LOVE BIRDS, IRISH GARDENS is having a 1/2 price sale on ALL FLOWERS -Friday only, while supplies last. Special hours on Friday from 12:30-4. Sorry, no deliveries. Closed Saturday.  
GOOD LUCK PAUL! Bring us back  Don't forget to wish JIM FERRICK  I'll fricken kill you!  
\  PERSONALS  the Nintendo Game.  a happy birthday before you leave for break. He turns 21 October  B_TCHEESE!  
hiag FREE GIFT!! ESTEE LAUDER AT HUDSONS UNIVERSITY PARK MALL­MISHAWAKA. FREE GIFT WITH $12.50 PURCHASE NOW THRU OCT. 20. IF YOU CAN'T GET TO THE MALL BE SURE TO CALL COSMETICS 271-6132 WE  Joe, Justin, Kodiak, Mike, & Bert Follow the Notre Dame Glee Club on tour Sunday, Oct 21 Rochester, NY St. John the Evangelist Church 8:00PM  24th. HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM!!!! •HEY FARLEY FROSH OF 2AW Have we told you lately that you guys are the greatest?! Even though you are generally geeks you all are still pretty cool. And hey, do you guys have any food?? Love, the 2A senior "nerds"  Happy Twentieth from all your friends Bad Boy! REX STREET REX STREET  GOOD LUCK #84 I!! GO IRV! Love, Your Admiring Fan Go SEA BREEZE! Blow Miami Away! "DEPARTURES"  ROOCHIE MOM! Congratulations on Burnett!! You are awesome! Good Luck next year! Love, Bongs HEYY'ALL! The 'BAMA Babe is 21! Happy Birthday KRISTIN SADIE!  
.- OFFER UPS DELIVERY. BEAT MIAMI!! MARY GARING IN D.C. 1. Be good 2. If you can't be good. be careful 3. If you can't be careful, name it after me TALTHYBIUS, GREAT HEAD ... HECUBA POSEIDON, MUST EVERY PASSING FANCY BE LABELED LUST? LOVE, MENELAUS  Monday, Oct 22 New York, NY St. Ignatius Loyola School 48 East 84th Street 7:30PM Wednesday, Oct 24 Montclair, NJ Montclair-Kimberly HS 7:30PM Thursday, Oct 25 Washington DC Gonzaga HS 8:15PM Friday, Oct 26 Radner, PA Archbishop Carroll HS  MICHAEL "I've fallen ... and I can't get up!" FAEHNER will finally be 21 on Oct. 27!! Soon you'll be able to get into Sr. Bar LEGALLY! (Kudos!) THE HUNT IS ON !!!!!Nov. 2 & 3 ATIENTION STUDENT BODY!! FLO HOELKER is nothing but a a perverted geekl! If you see this man, harass him! Ostracize him! HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MOIRE MURRAY!!! Have a great 18th ... but be good!! We love ya-Mighty Mouse, Janey, Mo. Bobana, Mirella and Vonny.  REX STREET 2:00 FRIDAY 2:00 FRIDAY 2:00 FRIDAY This is. the tape®you liave been Maring :4abou~ Song Parody® "Catholics Kill Convicts" To get your copy, call now 271-9482  Arn I the Flying Dutchman Dying Living Cycling Twists of life Turns of Passion Now the time has come For me togo... All of Time cannot fill The single timeless moment As all of Heaven's waters Cannot drown a single Thunderous tear The weary flower weeps Within the dewdrops of the Fading day ... I must I cannot rest This empty ocean set upon me  Love, Jackie, Kristi, Kirstin, Cara, Jen, and Michelle. What do a blindfold, a flashlight, and a hooded sweatshirt have in common? Only Megan knows the answer! · Happy Birthday Megan McGarry! Stacy, congratulations on passing your PhD exam with flying colors. We are proud of you. The Apple Dumpling Gang  
-- Geg Klimczak, go back to Dayton where you belong, you schmuck. Thanks for coming to visit, don't be a stranger. Love and tongue kisses, John. P.S. Tara Abbott is a geek. Got a problem telling the latest RICK(y) Watters joke?  8:00PM Saturday, Oct 27 East Stroudsburg, PA Notre Dame HS 2:30PM Call the local Notre Dame Club for ticket information, or just buy them at the door.  Triton-you are my fleet-footed hero. Thanks for a great week. Can't wait for the dance. Carpe Diem! -Fred Happy Birthday Katie Clark!!!!! Only one more year til it really counts but we'll still be your friends!!!!  Dear ND Students, This Saturday, our team will face perhaps its greatest challenge of the season against the Miami Hurricanes. After the '88 31-30 victory, Coach Holtz stated that it was the spirit of ND that won the game; tomorrow, let the Fighting Irish hear how loud our spirit can be! Remember, nothing's  Like an ever-tightening vise That grips without crushing Raging thoughts yield to the Whispers from my heart But they are louder still ... The living time dies away As when the night expires and The waking flower is kissed By the sunlight of The new day ...  sdf ........·····················.......... HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MARIANNE RAVRY (OCT. 25) YOU TRULY ARE A WILD WOMAN OF WALSH!I!I!!!!!  
Don't blame it on the wind!!!!!!!!!  Hey Judy Blue Eyes!  impossible if you believe-Go Irish!!!  -LANCELOT  HAVE AN AWESOME BIRTHSAY AND DON'T DO ANYTHING I WOULD DO!!!!!!!!  
- We're here to help. CALL x1 FIB (x1342) Answering machine is waiting for  SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN Miami Tickets 4 Sale (ST) Call Dalys x4244 Don't Miss The Final Conflict!  Ricky Watters is the best football  Hey, Goddess of the Gorch Gameroom: WHAT IN THE WORLD IS A  PETE SAVIN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARIANNE! 4526 X4526 CALL MARIANNE AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
player in collegiate history and if  GORCH, ANYWAY!!??  GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR  TODAY!!!!!!!! I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
MARK BELLAFANTE LOVES  you don't believe me, then ask  NUCLEAR SUB INTERVIEWS!  
THE DICE MAN!!!! Ohh! It's a  him.  -The Stir Fry God  KNOCK 'EM DEAD!!  .........******* * ***** •••••••••••••••** *  
your joke.  beautiful thing.  From, Anyone with a pulse  

-
Scoreboard 
-
Friday, October 19, 1990 page 17 
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 
The Top Twenty Five tearTB In the Assocla!ed Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes In parenthes98, records through Oct. f3, total points based on 25 points lor a first-place vote through one point lor a 25th-place vote, and last week's ranklngs: 
f. Virginia (36) 
2. Miami, Fla. (f5) 3. Tenn988ee (2) 4. Nebraska (3) 
5. 
AubOrn 

6. 
Notre O.me (f) 

7. 
Florida St. 


9. Illinois 9. Houston (1) t 0. M lchlgan t t. Georgia Tach f2. Brigham Young f3. Washington f4. Colorado 
15. Southern Cal f6. Oklahoma f7. Florida f8. Ml&&lsslppl 
19. 
Texas 

20. 
Indiana 2t. Wyoming 


22. Clemson 
22. Iowa 
24. 
Michigan St. 

25. 
Texas A& M 


Recood I'll PYa 1hla Week 6-0-0 f.454 2 at Wake Forest 4-f-0 f,4f4 3 at16 Notn! O.me 4·0-2 f,354 5 ALABAMA 6-0-0 f,256 7 OKLAHOMA STATE 4-0-f f,236 6 17 FLORIDA STATE 4-f-0 f,206 6 12MIAMI 4-f-0 f,046 fO ati5Auburn 4-f-0 971 ff 124 MICHIGAN STATE 5-0-0 963 f2 at Southern Methodist 3-2-0 939 1 122 IOWA 5-0-0 835 f8 at North Carolina 5-f-0 830 13 Idle 5-1-0 786 f7 at Stanford 5-1-1 762 f4 at Kansas 5-f-0 761 16 ARIZONA 5-1-0 724 4 IOWA STATE 5-f-0 485 9 AKRON 5-1-0 374 24 ARKANSAS STATE 3-1-0 354 ARKANSAS 4-0-f 3f2 22 at Minnesota 7-0-0 29f 23 WEBER STATE 5-2-0 276 f5 at North Carolina State 4-f-0 276 25 at 110 Michigan 2-2-f 193 at 18 Illinois 4·2-0 ff6 20 BAYLOR 
Other receiving votes: Texas Christian 89. Oregon 93, South Carolina 36, Ohio St. t5, California 14, Penn St. t2, Arizona 1t, Louisville 5, Toledo 5, S. Mississippi 4, UCLA 2. 
NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eat  
w  L  T  1'1:1  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  lllv  
Miami  5  f  0  .833  125 83  3-0-0  2-f-0  5-0-0  0-1-0  4-0-0  
Buffalo  4  f  0  .900  130 99  3-0-0  1-1-0  4-1-0  0-0-0  2-t-0  
lndnplls  2  3  0  .400  9t  t09  1-t-0  1-2-0  f-3-0  f-0-0  0-2-0  
NY Jets  2  4  0  .333  107 f48  f-2-0  f-2-0  2-4-0  0-0-0  t-2-0  
N England  f  5  0  .f67  90  169  0-3-0  1-2-0  1-5-0  0-0-0  1-3-0  
Centre!  
Clncnnati  4  2  0  .667  154 f53  2·0-0  2-2-0  3-2-0  f-0-0  0-1-0  
Houston  3  3  0  .500  146  125  2-f-0  f-2-0  3-f-0  0-2-0  1-1-0  
Pllaburgh  3  3  0  .500  f02  tOf  2-f-0  1-2-0  3-3-0  0-0-0  1-f-0  
Cleveland  2  4  0  .333  96  f39  1-1-0  1-3-0  2-3-0  0-1-0  t-0-0  
.,.  
LA Raldrs  5  1  0  .933  f23  90  4-0-0  1-f-0  4-1-0  1-0-0  3-0-0  
Kan. City  4  2  0  .667  160 95  3-0-0  f-2-0  1-2-0  3-0-0  0-1-0  
Denver  2  4  0  .333  t41  161  2-2-0  0-2-0  2-4-0  0-0-0  2-1-0  
San Diego  2  4  0  .333  t14  fOB  0-2-0  2·2-0  2-3-0  0-f-0  0-0-0  
Seanle  2  4  0  .333  f25  f28  f-1-0  1-3-0  2·3-0  0-f-0  0-3-0  
NATIONAL CONFERENCE  
Eat  
w  L  T  1'1:1  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  lllv  
NY Giants  5  0  0  1.000  130 67  3-0-0  2-0-0  f-0-0  4-0-0  4-0-0  
Washlngtn  3  2  0  .600  t21  75  2-1-0  1-1-0  0-0-0  3-2-0  3-1-0  
Phlla  2  3  0  .400  123 1f9  f-2·0  1-1-0  0-f-0  2-2-0  0-2-0  
Phoenix  2  3  0  .400  60  f2f  1-1-0  1-2·0  0-0-0  2-3-0  2-2-0  
Dallu  2  4  0  .333  73  122  2-f-0  0-3-0  1-0-0  1-4-0  0-4-0  
Centre!  
Chicago  5  1  0  .933  142 75  4-0-0  f-f-0  f-f-0  4-0-0  3-0-0  
Tarfll'l Bay  4  2  0  .667  f34  f24  2-f-0  2-f-0  0-0-0  4-2-0  4·0-0  
Detroit  2  4  0  . 333  f41  f69  f-2-0  f-2-0  0-1-0  2-3-0  1·3-0  
Green Bay  2  4  0  .333  f03  146  1-2-0  1-2-0  0-t-0  2-3-0  f-3-0  
Mlnesota  t  5  0  .t67  t40  135  1-2-0  0-3-0  O·f-0  1-4·0  0-3-0  
.,.  
San Fran  5  0  0  f.OOO  127 94  2-0-0  3-0-0  f-0-0  4-0-0  3-0-0  
Allanta  2  3  0  .400  137  139  2-1-0  0-2-0  f-0-0  t-3-0  1-2-0  
New Orlns  2  3  0  .400  95  100  2-1-0  0-2-0  1·0-0  f-3-0  0-2-0  
LA Ramo  t  4  0  .200  120 f49  0-2·0  1-2-0  0-1-0  1-3-0  0-0-0  
Sundrf'aGa.,..  

San Francisco 45, Allanta 35 Houston 49, Cincinnati 17 Kansas C~y 43, Detroit 24 New Orleans 25, Cleveland 20 San Diego 39, New York Jets 3 Tarfll'l Bay 26, Green Bay 14 Pittsburgh 34, Denver f7 L01 Ange198 Raiders 24, Seanle 17 Phoenix 20, Dallas 3 New York Giants 24, Washington 20 Chicago 36, Los Angeles Rams 9 OPEN DATE: Buffalo, indianapolis, Miami, New England 
Mondr{e Game Phlladephla 32, Mlnn98ota 24 
Truredtly'e Game Miami t7, New England 10 
Sundey'eGa,_ Dallas at Tarfll'l Bay, 1 p.m. Denver at Indianapolis, f p.m. 
New Orleans a! Houston, t p.m. 
New York Jets at Buffalo, f p.m. 
Philadelphia at Washington, t p.m. 
Atlanta at LOll Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. 
Kar.as City at Seat11e, 4 p.m. 
Phoenix at New York Giants, 4 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
Los Angeles Raiders at San Diego, 4 p.m. 
OPEN DATES: Chicago, DetroM, Green Bay, Mlnn9801a 
Mondr{• Game Cincinnati at Cleveland, 9 p.m. 



Women's lnterhall Football Playoffs 
(2-3) 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American lM.QUI! KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Announced the resignation ot Mickey Cobb, trainer. Pioneer League BUTTE COPPER KINGS--Announced the resignation of Mike Shields, general manager. 
BASKETBALL 
Nelonal Basketball Alloci811on 
DALLAS MAVERICKS--Waived Jesse Spinner 
and Jim Grandholm, centers; and Joel DeBortoli 
and Richard Hollis, forwards. 
HOUSTON ROCKETS--Waived Willie Bland, 
guard. 

PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS-Extended the 
contract of Buck Williams, forward, through the 
1 993·94 season. 
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Waived David Rivers, 
guard. 

Continen'-1 Baekelbalf Alloclalion 
CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER BULLETS-Signed 
Chris Gaines, guard, and Kenny Sanders, forward. 
LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Brent 
Carmichael, guard. 
OMAHA RACERS--Singed Pat Bolden, guard, 
and Paul Weakley. forward. 
SAN JOSE JAMMERS--Acquired Michael Tatt, 
guard, from Wichita for the rights to Cedric Ball, 
forward. 
FOOTBALL 

National Footblol I..Hgue 
ATLANTA FALCONS-Placed John Scully, 
guard, on Injured reserve. Signed Robert Lyles, 
linebacker, off waivers from the Houston Oilers. 
DALLAS COWBOYS--Agreed to terms with 
Jesse Solomon, linebacker. 
Canadian Football lM.gue 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Added Eric Starr, 
running back and Andrew Thomas, defensive 
back, to the practice roster. Released David 
Eldridge, running back; Mike Henry, defensive 
lineman; and Emanuel Tolbert, slotback. 
CALGARY STAMPEDERS-Released Darrell 
Wallace, running back. Added Ken Ford, 
linebacker, to the practice roster. 
OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Released Pat Miller, 
linebacker and Derrick Whtte, defensive back. 
SASKATCHEWAN ROUGHRIDERS-Added 
John Bankhead, defensive lineman; Terry 
Blackmon, defensive back; and Brent Pollock, 
offensive tackle to the practice roster. Released 
Bernie Gller, linebacker. 
TORONTO ARGOS--Transferred Hank lleslc, to 
reserve list. Released Andrew Thomas, defensive 
back. 
GOLF 

Senior PGA TOU' 
SENIOR PGA-Announced the Ball Allanite 
Classic will move from the Chester Valley Golf 
Club to the Whtte Manor Country Club In 1991. 
HOCKEY 

National Hockey lM.gue 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Signed Bob Dollas, 
defenseman . 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS--Assigned Mlck 
Vukota, forward, to Capttal District of the American 
Hockey League. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Brian Mullen, 
right wing, and Kelly Kislo, center, to muttlyear 
contracts. 

fntemallonll Hockey League 
SAN DIEGO GULLS--Acquired Dennis Holland, forward, on loan from the Detroit Red Wings. Released Rob Schena, defenseman. 
SOCCER National Proleuloral Soccer lM.gue DETROIT ROCKERS-Signed Steve Boardman and Randy Pr98co11, defenders. 
COLLEGE ARKANSAS-Signed Nolan Richardson, basketball coach, to a seven-year contract. 
NEBRASKA-OMAHA-Announced Larry Sbley, 
linebacker, will no longer play football because of 
a neck Injury. 
ST. FRANCIS, PA.-Named William Gray pan­
time women's basketball coach. 
, NFL BOX 
NewEngland 0 3 0 7-10 
Maml 0 10 7 0-17 
Second auw.r 
NE-FGStaurovsky41, 1:31. 
Mla-FG Stoyanovich 47, 6:15. 
Mia-Higgs 19 blocked punt return (Stoyanovich 
kick), 8:29. 

ThlniQ.w 
Mla-S.Smlth 2 run (Stoyanovlch kick), 12:57. 
Foldl~ 
NE-Adams 4 pass from Wilson (Staurovsky kick), 8:42. 
A-62.630. 
NE Mia 

First downs 11 16 
Rush98-yards 24-49 27-50 
Passing 148 229 
Return Yards 7 f9 
Comp-Att·lnt 18-36-0 20-34-1 
Sacked-Yards L011t 5-39 2-16 
Punts 9-35 5-46 
Fumbi98-LOIII 4-0 5-4 
Penaltl98-Yards 6-42 5-29 
Tlme of Posaesslon 30:26 29:34 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING-New England, Perryman 6-22, Adams 6-1 9, Stephens 9-7, Overton 1-f, Wilson 2­
0. Miami, Logan 8-21, S.Smlth 14-16, Stradford 2­10, Paige 3-3. PASSING-New England, Wilson 19-38-0-187. Miami, Marino 20-34-1-245. 
RECEIVING-New England, Fryar 4-44, Adams 4-15, McMurtry 3-46, Jones 2-40, Perrlman 2-f8, Sievers 2-13, Cook f-11. Miami, Clayton 5-92, Duper 5-74, Edmonds 3-24, Martin 3-23, S.SmMh f-15, Stradford 1-8, Logan 1-7, Jensen 1-2. 
MISSED FIELD GOALS-New England, Staurovsky 52. 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Friday, Oct. 11 Man'• eoccer v. Xavier 7:30p.m. 
s.turcMy, Oct. 211 Mln'e lootbel v. Miami, Fla. 2:30p.m. w-..·.aocc:.r v. Calllin College 1000 a.m. Man'a crou CCJUr*Y V. WIHiam & Mary 10:30 a.m. 
Underdog Champions 
Heavyweight champions who were underdogs in title defenses, compiled by Boxing Illustrated (champions listed first; odds favoring challenger in parentheses): 
CHAMP (ODDS) RESULT 
Jack Johnson (1 0-7) Primo Camera (7-5) James J. Braddock (5-2) Ezzard Charles (2-1) Jersey Joe Walcott (2-1) Jersey Joe Walcott (9-5) Floyd Patterson (10-7) Muhammad Ali (7-5) Leon Spinks (3-1) Michael Spinks (7-5) Trevor Berbick ( 4-1) 
James "Buster" Douglas (8-5) 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Pniclr. lll'4illon  
w  L  T  
NY Rangers  5  2  0  
Philadelphia  5  2  0  
New Jersey  4  2  1  
Pittsburgh  3  3  0  
NY Islanders  2  3  0  
Washington  2  5  0  
Adllme lllvlelon  
Hartford  4  2  2  
Boston  4  2  1  
Montreal  4  3  1  
Quebec  2  3  3  
Buffalo  0  4  2  
CAMPBELL CONFEREN CE  
Norrie lllvlalon  
w  L  T  
Chicago  5  3  0  
Detroit  4  2  2  
St. Louis  4  3  0  
Minnesota  1  5  1  
Toronto  0  6  f  
Smythe lllvlalon  
Los Angel98  5  1  1  
Vancouver  4  2  0  
Calgary  4  3  0  
Edmonton  1  2  2  
Winnipeg  1  6  1  
Tluldrly'e Gamee  

Detroit 5, Montreal 2 Philadelphia 5, Quebec 4 Chicago 3, Toronto 0 St. Louis 4, Calgary 3 
Friday'• aan­
~----­
Knocked out James J. 
Jeffries in 15th round 
Stopped by Max Baer in 11th round 
Lost on eighth-round 
knockout to Joe Louis 
Won 15-round unanimous 
decision over Joe Louis 
Won 15-round decision over Ezzard Charles 
Lost on 13th-round knockout to Rocky Marciano 
Lost on first-round knockout to Sonny Liston 
Knocked out Sonny Liston in first round 
Lost 15-round unanimous decision to Muhammad Ali 
Won 15-round split decision over Larry Holmes 
Stopped in second round by Mike Tyson 
Will defend against Evander Holyfield 
I'll  GF  (M  
10  30  19  
10  30  21  
9  27  25  
6  25  25  
4  15  17  
4  20  27  
10  26  23  
9  25  19  
9  25  28  
7  27  32  
2  20  25  
I'll  GF  (M  
10  25  f7  
10  30  30  
8  19  23  
3  f7  26  
1  13  31  
11  34  18  
8  22  17  
8  25  21  
4  17  20  
3  23  28  


Pittsburgh at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. 
Islanders at Washington, 7:35 p.m. 

N.Y. 
Rangers at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Vancouver at Wlnnpeg, 8:35 p.m. B011ton at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Hartford a! LOll Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 


Saturdlly'e Gamee Detrott at Quebec, 2:0S p.m. Buffalo at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at Washington, 7:35 p.m. Boston at Calgary, 9:05p.m. Philadelphia at Montreal, 9:05 p.m. Chicago at Toronto, 9:05 p.m. Minnesota at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
Sunday'a Gamee Vancouver at Quebec, 2:05 p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m. Minnesota at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 

DATE July 4,1910 June 14, 1934 June 22, 1937 Sept. 27, 1950 June 5, 1952 Sept. 23, 1952 Sept. 25, 1962 May 25, 1965 Sept. 15, 1978 April 19, 1986 Nov.22, 1986 Oct. 25, 1990 
AP/Karl Tate 

Home  Away  
4-0-0  1-2-0  
4-0-0  1-2-0  
4-0-1  0-2-0  
1-1-0  2-2-0  
1-1-0  1-2-0  
2-2-0  0-3-0  
3-0-1  1-2-1  
2-0-0  2-2-1  
3-0-0  1-3-1  
0-1-2  2-1-1  
0-2-1  0-2-1  
Home  Away  
3-2-0  2-1-0  
4-0-0  0-2-2  
t-1-0  3-2-0  
1-2-1  0-3-0  
0-2-1  0-4-0  
4-1-1  1-0-0  
3-1-0  1-1-0  
2-1-0  2-2-0  
1-1-1  0-H  
1-2-0  0-4-f  

lllv 2-0-0 2-f-0 2-2-0 3-f-0 0-1-0 0-4-0 
2-f-2 2-0-0 3-f-1 1-2-3 0-4-2 
lllv 3-1-0 1-0-1 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-1-1 
1·1·1 2-2-0 2-0-0 0-f-2 0-1-1 

Men's lnterhall Football Playoffs 
~
#4 Off•Camous 
(3-1) 
#5 Fisher 

--
----~----.-------------~--------~----------------~~-.------------~------­
The Observer Friday, October 19, 1990
page 18 
t.tiJ, 
.­

-
SAFETY CONCERNS 
·-·-· 

Since the beginning of the school year, the off-campus area just south of the Notre Dame campus has been the site of a number of assaults involving students as victims. 
The principal area of concern is the streets within or around the map outlined below. Other attacks have occured just east and north of the campus boundaries. 
The number of violent crimes remains relatively low on University property but several accostings have been reported in the area of St. Mary's Road, St.Joseph's Lake and the parking lots across from the Library. 
***************** HERE IS WHAT YOU CAN DO TO PROTECT YOURSELF
HERE IS WHAT THE UNIVERSITY IS DOING TO PROTECT YOU 
* 
Assaults have occurred in the area south of campus and in remote areas of campus. Avoid those areas late at night If at all possible.
* 
University security and police officers provide 24 hour foot and vehicular patrols on the campus property. Additionally, security personnel are stationed at the 
* Don't over consume alcohol. Alcohol dulls your judgment and awareness and slows East and Main Gates on a 24 hour basis where you may request assistance. 
your reflexes. 
* 
University security personnel are available for crime prevention programs, 
* 
Be aware of your surroundings at all times. Is there someone in front of or behind you? 
discussions or consultation both on and off campus. Off campus programs are If a person or persons ahead of you appears threatening, cross the street.
cooperative efforts with the South Bend Police or Saint Joseph County Police. 
* 
Don't walk alone, avoid dark areas. and try to travel in groups. Walking in pairs 
* 
Campus lighting has been increased. We are continuing to evaluate on an ongoing may not be sufficient. A number of incidents have involved victims walking in groups basis the sufficiency of lighting on campus. 
of two or three. Avoid large threatening groups of unfamiliar people. 
* Funding has been provided for the Safewalk Escort Program. 
* If driving a car, park in well-lit areas and lock your doors. 
* 
A campus emergency call box system is in the process of being installed. Initially, 18 emergency call boxes will be installed on remote parts of the campus. These phones 
* If you are a victim, don't threaten or pursue your attacker. Get a good description can be used to report crime or suspicious activity directly to the Communications Center and report it to the police. On campus, call 4444 or 5555. Off campus, of the Security/Police Department. The Communications Center has direct contact with all call911.
of the area law enforcement agencies. 
* 
Report suspicious incidents, groups and individuals immediately to the police. 
* 
We are pruning shrubs and trees in problem areas in order to increase open area 
*  visibility. We are also upgrading the radiant light in areas of concern. The second floor of the Campus Security Building is available for all night or late night study. Escorts are available coming to or going from this area.  
*  The city of South Bend and the University are working together to make this a safer environment.  

I 
0
.I:. 
t 
c 
2 
.... 
~
C'; 
cr. 

University of Notre Dame 
j a;
Angela Blvd. 

~
... 

Q) 
E 
~ " ns ~ 
(/)

0 
>­

On campus, ca114444 or 5555. Off campus, call 911. 
* 
Use 
the Safewalk Escort Service on campus from 8pm -2am. Call 283-BLUE. At other times call Notre Dame Security at 4444 or 5555 for escort assistance on campus. 

* 
Learn more about crime prevention strategies by participating in or sponsoring a crime prevention program available through Notre Dame Security/Police. 

* 
Take responsibility for your personal safety and that of others by BEING ALERT AT ALL TIMES! 


-o
a: 
~ 
Q) 
·c:a. 
::J 
-:1 

Q) 
"0 
"0 
w

z
~­
v

~ 
0"
II' Corby St. 

,, 0 ~ 
"'-.1 
~ 

~~#
0 
-IF YOU SEE TROUBLE ON OR OFF CAMPUS,REPORT IT!!! 
This message is brought to you by the Office of Student Affairs and the Notre Dame Security/Police Department. 
-
____.._...-------­
J J J ! , \ • \ " I · I I ·I . '.,, ~ ·, I , .. I 
' . 

Friday, October 19, 1990 The Observer page 19 
Men's IH football playoffs set 

GOTO MEDICA!_$_f!OOL 
tU11iOtl~ 
~ PA\D _J
t.,.,,,_;:rm;ua 
Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and 
fees paid in full-plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school. 
Clip and mail the coupon below. and we'll send you full details on the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the 
Army, Navy or Air Force. 
If selected. you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as 
a commtsstoned officer in the Reserves. 
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology. 
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice­
and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today. 
1 JE$1 Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health ProfessiOns Scholarship Program I 
• can help cut my medical school expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below. I understand I am under no obligat1on. Mail this coupon to Armed Forces ScholarshipS, P.O. Box 2865 Huntmgton Stat1on, NY 11746·2102 9017 
Check up to three: D Army ONavy 0 Air Force 
(21·34 years of age) (21·36 years of age) (18·34 years of age) Please prtnl all mlorma110n clearly and completely 
I I 
[

Name---,,,::-:.,-----..,M,:;:;,,o::-,, ,-,.,:::c,....------,..,.,.,..,...,__0 Male D Female
1 1111
I I
Address _______________Apt. # ______ 
Cily__________State Zipl I I I I I 
Phone D=r::J D=r::J I I Soc. Sec. No. CIIJ o=J I I I I I
I I
Aru Code ~umber 
College _____________ B1rth Dateo=J o=J o=J 
Mo ~ Year 
F1eld of Study ____________ Graduation Date L..LJ o=J 
Mo Year
I IThe mformalton you voluruanly provtde wtll be used tor recrulltng purposes only The more complete titS, the benar we can respond to your reQuest (Authonty 10 USC 503)
.. _______ .. 
Belles close out season, wins could mean playoffs
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
On a cold, windy evening, the sixth participant in this year's men's intnrhall football playoffs was determined. Stanford and Zahm battled to a 0-0 tie, giving the Studs ( 1-1-2) the fi­nal berth. 
In the first round November 4, Stanford will face third-seed Alumni (4-0), while number­four Off-Campus ( 3-1) meets number-live Fisher (3-1 ). The winner of the Stud versus Dog contest plays second-seed Sorin (4-0), while the Crime-Green Wave victor goes up against top-sP.P.ded Grace (4-0). 
STANFORD 0 ZAHM 0 
With large crowds on both sides cheering their teams, both sidfls struggled on offense in the adverse weather condi­tions. 
"The ball was a little bit slick," said Zahm quarterback Matt Lahey, "but both teams playp,d under the same condi­tions, and it [the weather) wasn't as big a problem as I thought it would bfl." 
"The weather affected my play very much," said Stud tail­hack Tony Augustino. "I had a hard time keeping on my feet." 
Zahm (1-3) had two excellent scoring chances in the first half. At the Stanford 22-yard line, Lahey fumbled the snap, but picked up the loose ball and scrambled for an apparent touchdown, only to have the play called back on a clipping penalty at the six. After gaining a first down, Lahey was sacked on fourth down at the 16. 
Immediately, Zahm got the 
ball back at Stanford's 27 when Matt Seng intercepted a de­flected pass. Lahey threw to Adam North for six yards, and Kevin Casey for five more. However, Zahm could get no closer than the 10-yard line after that, and the drive ended. 
"The key to the game was our not capitalizing in the first half," said Zahm coach Dan Stopar. "We were down close both times, but we didn't push it in." 
Stanford's defense took over in the second half. Zahm made no first downs, and was inter­cepted twice by the Stud sec­ondary. 
"Our victory definitely was keyed by our defense," said Stanford coach Sean Gilboy. "The first half they moved a bit on us, but I think we really stuffed them in the second half." 
Stanford is looking forward to its rematch with defending champion Alumni. The Dogs shut out the Studs 16-0 in the opening game of the year for both teams. 
"We had a bad game," said Gilboy, "but I think we'll be prepared after a two-week hia­tus. We'll definitely need tough defense. I think we can score on them. We just have to stop them from scoring. 
OTHER GAMES: 
Pangborn won its first game of the season by trouncing St. Edward's (0-3-1) 22-0. The Violence (1-3) forced five turnovers, and John Jacobs threw two touchdown passes. 
"We knew we were a good football team. We knew we could put it together," said Jacobs. "It was a matter of get­ting people fired up. We've had a couple of bad breaks, but tonight we had the good breaks." 
Defensive lineman Brian Haggarty recovered two St. Edward's fumbles, and re­turned one for a touchdown. He felt the weather had a lot to do with St. Edward's triple-option wishbone not working well. 
"Because of the slippery con­
ditions," Haggarty said, "it 
made it hard to run the option 
for them." 
Jacobs, also a defensive back, 
commended the ability of the 
defensive line to penetrate in 
being able to stop the option at­
tack. 

In the early game, Flanner (2-2) defeated winless Morrissey 7-0. Flanner took the entire third quarter to score on John Bagley's one-yard quar­terback sneak, set up by Clark Warren's 13-yard pass to Bagley on third-and-15 and John Tucek's subsequent fourth-down conversion to the Manor one-yard line. 
NVA Note: The women's playoff situation was settled yesterday when P.W.'s protest was upheld, changing an 18-12 'Joss it sustained against Lewis to a 13-12 Plaid Wave victory. This enabled P. W. to win the Blue Division, knocking Farley 
to second and Lewis to third. 
The first round of the playoffs looks like this: top-ranked Breen-Phillips vs. number-eight P.E.; number-two P.W. vs. number-seven Lyons; third­seeded Howard vs. number-six Off-Campus; and number-four Farley vs. fifth-ranked Lewis (see Scoreboard for complete playoff bracket). 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will try to end their two­game losing streak tonight as they face Indiana University 
at South Bend.  
For  the  Belles,  10-3-1,  
winning  tonight  is  very  
important.  

"Like with any game, you expect to do as well as you can," said Head Coach Tom Van Meter. "It's important for us to win because we have to get back on the winning side after losing the last two [games)." 
Tonight's match will be a key transition match for the team. The Belles will have a break after tonight's game, but will go back into action next weekend to finish their season with a two-game road trip. The Belles will need a win tonight to prepare them for their remaining two games. 
"We've played them before. They're building a new program. They have an experienced goalie in Tawn Ray," said Coach Van Meter. "I think the key for us in the game is execution." 
"It will give us a chance to work on our skills, offensive and defensive," said senior Amy Ross. "We need to put something together before we walk into playing a ranked team." 
The Belles will travel to Bowling Green University on October 27 to face a competitive club team. The Belles defeated Bowling Green 2-0 last year and feel optimistic about this season's match up. 
bn Sunday, the Belles travel to the College of Wooster to face one of division three's top teams. The Belles have beaten Wooster in their last three matchups. But this season's matchup will prove to be tough. 
"They are nationally ranked. The rumor is that they are heading for NCAA Division III post-season play. It will be a very tight match," Coach Van Meter said. 
"It will be very intense, very physical. We played them 
· evenly the last few years. But, they've got an even better team this year," said senior Tricia Troester. Troester added that the game will be a very emotional game for the seniors, who will be playing for the last time. 
Post-season bids don't officially come out until October 28. A win against Wooster could improve the Belles chances of recieving a bid. But the Belles must win all three remaining games to get the bid. 
"I know that we've been considered. That's one positive thing. But the loss to Calvin really hurt our chances," Coach Van Meter said. "A win over Wooster could help our chances. But we can't stumble at Bowling Green or IUSB." 

Brad Tolstedt is 21! FIHfiLLYI 
Thinking of doing ayearof service? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
-
-
page 20 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team will be conducting a football concession stand this weekend in front of Dillon Hall. They will be selling food, "The Cause" t-shirts, as well as their own team t­shirts. 
The NVA Turkey Shoot will be Nov. 13-14. Sign up at NVA after Fall Break. 
Flag Football Drive to cure paralysis will be Nov. 9-11. Sign up at NVA after break. 
Men's basketball will hold an open scrimmage after today's pep rally . Warmups begin at 8 p.m., with the scrimmage set for 
8:30 p.m. Admission is free. 

Men's XC faces test, hosts William &Mary 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team, currently ranked sixth in the nation, will finish up its regular season over break, facing William and Mary at home tomorrow and defend­ing its title in the MCC Championships on October 27. 
The Irish remain undefeated thus far in the season, with their latest win coming two weeks ago at the Notre Dame Invitational. Both Head Coach Joe Piane and Senior Captain Mike O'Conner agree that William and Mary will be their toughest opponent of the regu­lar season. 
Much of the challenger's strength stems from the the leadership of Head Coach Walt Drenth. who transferred this season from Central Michigan with two top runners to take the helm at William and Mary. Drenth inherited a solid pro­gram at his new school, one which includes top runner Paul Vandergrift, who boasts a stunning 3:56 mile. 
"They were solid last year, and they're a hell of a lot better with him (Drenth) and the transfers," said Piane of his opponent. "They will be the best challenge we've had yet, the best total team. They're coming in healthy and they've got nothing to lose." 
"They were good last year, but now they have the luxury of having two teams combined," said O'Conner. "They're defi­nitely the best team we face all season. I don't know if we could have said that at the out­set of the season, but the way they're running now it's defi­nitely true. They'll be ready to run." 
The .Irish are expecting a lesser challenge at the Midwest Collegiate Conference Championships. Notre Dame took first out of eight teams last year, placing six runners in the top ten, and expect the results of this year's meet to be similar. 
"We've got an excellent chance of winning this meet," said Piane, "a much better chance of winning than against William and Mary. It's a big meet because it gives us a chance to win a conference, but William and Mary is better than any opponent we will face in the MCC." 
"It will be a good meet to sharpen up and build team confidence," said O'Conner, "but it's not on the same level as William and Mary." 
The Irish will have two weeks after break to train for the NCAA qualifying meet on November 10, which both Piane and O'Conner have described as the focal point of Notre Dame's season. Two wins over the break will give the Irish additional cohesion and confidence which may help them secure a tournament bid and perform well in the subsequent championship meet. 
Irish runner Ryan Cahill summarized his team's position earlier in the season: "We have the team and the people to make it to the NCAA's, and once we're there, to do good there." 
The Observer Friday, October 19, 1990 
Men 
continued from page 24 

The last time the two teams met was in the MCC finals two years ago. In a brutal, fight­marred game, the Irish pre­vailed 2-0 over the fifth­ranked Purple Aces to gain an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
According to Paul LaVigne, former Notre Dame Head Coach Dennis Grace refused to schedule the Purple Aces last year to protest the play of Evansville in that game. 
"They come right at you," said LaVigne, "but they get so wrapped up in fighting that they forget to play soccer." 
The Irish should be up for the game emotionally. 
"It's a huge game for the four seniors," said LaVigne. "It's the first time we've played them since then." 
The Purple Aces feature two of the best players in college soccer. David Weir is among the leading scorers in the country, having tallied 19 goals and six assists on the season. Goalkeeper Trey Harrington comes into the game with a stellar 0.31 goals-against-av­erage. 
The Evansville defense hasn't allowed more than one goal in a game, and the Purple Aces have outscored their opponents 44-5. 
The Irish have had some success against Evansville in the past. The series record is tied at two games apiece, with the Irish posting a 1-1 record at Evansville. 
After playing Evansville, the Irish will head to the warm sun of Florida to take part in the Southern Bell Classic. 

The ~/Andrew ~loskey 
Goalkeeper Peter Gulli. has played superbly since earning the starting spot and has lowered h1s GAA to 1.14. The first opponent for the teams have met previously was 
Irish will be the University of in 1986, playing to a scoreless ­North Carolina at Charlotte on tie. Friday the 26th. Notre Dame has faced the 49ers only once Paul LaVigne felt confident before, winning 1-0 in 1985. about the upcoming trip to 
Florida. 

The Irish will face the Golden Panthers of Florida "They're games we can win," International the following said LaVigne. "We won the evening. The only time the two tournament two years ago." 
SEMINAR ON BUSINESS FACULTV CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS AND SENIORS AND JUNIORS IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 
ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
What's involved in becoming a business professor? What are the academic qualifications and requirements? How long does it take? How much does it cost? · Are scholarships available? Other financial help? What are the starting salaries and trends? What are the career satisfactions from teaching research, and service? ' How much control over your life do you have? If I am interested, what are the next steps to take? 
I invite you to join many of the College's faculty and other interested students for brief faculty presentations and a panel discussion. I hope to see you there. This meeting just might make you consider an entirely different career! Please join us. 
dean john g. keane 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30,4:15 PM 
ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 

-
-


--------------------~---------------------­
_F_rid_a~y~,_O_c_to_b_e_r_19~·~1_9_9_0__________________________________T~h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r---------=~~~~-=----~----~~==--~~--~p~age21 
Porter 
continued from page 24 
and 1~xplains thmn, so we see how wn ean improvn. That rnakns it nasinr for us to im­prov!~ on thn l'inld. Also, the games rnmm as much to him as thny do to us -hn takes the lossns as hard as wn do, and he likns the wins as much, too. 
"At thn beginning, I was pretty nervous becausn evnry­orw seemed to know everyone nlse," said the gifted Texan. "I fnlt out of it, but the upper­dassmen wnrn rnally nicn from the first day. From thn very start, thlly'vn taken care of us and helped us out. I tust nnjoy nveryonn on thn tnam. 
Whnn asknd about the future of thn growing Irish program, Portnr was optimistic to an ex­
trPml~. 
"I think that we arn just going to kenp getting bigger and bntter," said Porter. "Coach has got more pnopl1~ to hnlp and we're going to knnp improving our program and our sehndule nvery ynar. For tlw nnxt three ynars. wn will havn harder cornpntition 1~aeh year and play against teams with different playing styles." 
The Notrn Damn womnn's soccnr tnam. mnanwhiln. fresh off of its diflhangnr win over Saint Mary's Collegn, takns on Calvin Collegn this Saturday morning in a ganH~ of high­quality midwestern soccer pro­grams. 
The Irish ( 12-3-1) could use anothnr homn win before taking on Florida International (at Florida) on October 24 and hosting Dayton, Marquntte and Xavinr in the MCC Tournament on Oetobnr 27 and 28. So far this season, Notre Dame is 8-1 at home, with its only loss 
:·········································································~
! MUSICIAN REGISTER i
• 
•
* The musician register is a list of student musicians who want to play in bands or need musicians for already established! bands. If there are any questions please call Diana Dow at x3352 or at the Student Union Board Office 239-7757. 
: MISCELLANEOUS! •Joe Cannon and Bob Eberhardt need a drummer who is interested in punk, funk, hardcore and industrial.* Call x2008. 
•
* 
*Jason Winslade needs a guitarist who is interested in punk, funk, industrial, progressive and experimental.
* Call 287-8675. 
:
* *Jason Hoida is looking for a singer who is into the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Bad Brains. Call x1845.
:........................................................................... 
DRUMS  
x2008  cross-list guitar  Kevin Jones  x3498  
x3384  cross-list vocals  Bill Rhomberg  x4586  
x4888  
234-1 048  cross-list guitar  KEYBOARDS  
x 1640  Michelle Beauchesne  277-4322  
Weazel  x 1542  
YOCALS  
x2008  cross-list bassist  Michelle Beauchesne  277-4322  
x1588  Bob Eberhardt  x1835  
x3064  cross-list vocals  John Fletcher  x3384  
x4888  cross-list vocals  Glenn Fogarty  x3064  
x1598  Kristen Harknett  x4888  
x3072  Alison Meriaux  x3736  
234-1 048  cross-list bassist  Weazel  x 1542  
Jason Winslade  287-8625  

Dolphins beat Patriots 
-
for best start since '84 
MIAMI (API -Stingy defense and Mark Higgs' touchdown on a blocked punt helpnd the Miami Dolphins overcome live turnovers Thursday night as they handed New England its fourth consecutive loss, 17-10. 
The Dolphins (5-1) took a half-game lead over second­place Buffalo in the AFC East. The Bills play the Jets on Sunday. The Patriots fell to 1-5. 
An 11-day layoff left both teams looking sloppy. Miami won despite numerous dropped passes, an interception and four lost fumbles, including one in the Patriots' end zone. 
The Dolphins had all live turnovers by halftime, but they
1111 lUI iiK• 
still led 10-3 thanks to Higgs's 
19-yard return of a blocked 
punt. With the ball at the 
Patriots' 36-yard line, he 
slipped between blockers up 
the middle and smothered 
Brian Hansen's kick, grabbed 
the ball on the bounce and 
scored easily. 
The Cllse!Yer!Kenrtelt1 ~ Stephanie Porter has been a key contributor to the Irish women's Dan Marino set up Miami's 
soccer team as a freshman. 
coming against Creighton. 
"Calvin is a big, strong, phys­ical team," noted Coach Petrucelli. "They had good re­sults against Saint Mary's, and they will put lots of pressure on us. We have to try to move the ball quickly and not get caught with it on our foot because they will make things difficult for us." 
Calvin College (8-1). whose only loss came at the hands of Kalamazoo College earlier this 

~BUY YOUR NEXT INTERVIEW SUIT FROM A TAILOR -WE SPECIALIZE IN HARD TO FIT BUILDS -LARGE SELEGION OF QUALITY SUITS 
INCLUDING CHRISTIAN DIOR AND CRICKETEER -100% WOOL SUITS FROM $236 
Sine:. 
1980 
ff}-1:!:1 I:) 


Town & Country Shopping Center 2448 Miracle Ln., lllfi•hawakil, ln. 
•
* 
BASSISTS! Joe Cannon 

* 
John Fletcher

* 
Ellen Lanser! Greg Olson lt Dan Phillips


* 
• 
: GUITAR
* 
Joe Cannon ! Sean Fitzpatrick lt Glen Fogarty

* 
Kristen Harknett! Jason Lyons lt Don McGahn lt Greg Olson


* 
* 
other touchdown late in the season, is the top-ranked third quarter by hitting Mark 
Division Ill school in the nation. 
Clayton for a 36-yard gain to "This is going to be a tough the Patriots' 2-yard line. 
game for us," said Petrucelli. 
Sammie Smith scored on the"They score lots of goals -they next play to cap a 64-yard
have not been shut out this 
drive for a 17-3 lead. 
year. Saint Mary's is the only team that has held them to one New England's touchdown goal. 
"They're not going to create a came with 6:18 left, when lot of chances for themselves, George Adams caught a 4-yard but they will disrupt what scoring pass from Mare Wilson we're trying to do through on fourth down. The Patriots pressure and physical play. quickly forced a punt and took 

cross-list vocals cross-list vocals 
cross-list keyboards plays guitar a bit cross-list bass cross-list guitar cross-list guitar 
cross-list keyboards 
• L---------------------~ 
lt
* 
!
•
lt
! 
lt 
! 
lt 
lt lt 

fXl2f!~~N'~~  
QUALITY PAINTING  
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND (219) 277-3355  
OFFICE SUPPLIES ·­ 


: 
! 
lt 
lt lt
!: 
; lt lt 
!lt ! 
lt 
lt lt lt lt 
: 

TAnGATING? Banquet room and complete menu available-We'll be open after NO victory over Miami! 

over at the Miami 44. But Wilson was stopped for no gain on a fourth-down sneak at the 35 with 3:31 left. 
The Patriots had chances to build a big narly lead, but they failed to pick up a first down after Miami's first three turnovers. The Pats had 34 total yards and three first downs in the first half against Miami's defense, ranked fourth in the NFL. 
E.J. Junior and Hugh Green each had two of Miami's live sacks of Wilson, who completed 18 of 38 passes for 187 yards. His record as the Patriots' starting quarterback fell to 0-8. 
New England scored first on Jason Staurovsky's 41-yard field goal, which was set up by Bonnie Lippett's recovery of Mare Logan's fumble at midlinld. 
The Dolphins moved 35 yards on their next possession and seored on Pete Stoyanovich's 4 7 -yard field goal midway through the second quarter. It was the first Miami possession that didn't end in a turnover. 
With the game scoreless, Miami drove 61 yards to the Patriots' 2-yard line. But Smith fumbled when he was hit by Brian Hutson on a third-down dive play, and Lippett recovered in the end zone. 
The Dolphins came into the game tied for the AFC lead for fewest turnovers, with nine in five games. 
The win gave Miami its best start since 1984. the last time the team made the Super Bowl. The win also gave the Dolphins their fourth consecutive win against intradivision rivals, the team's best such streak since 1986. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION 
MEMORIAL PRCERAM. 


American Heart 6 
Association~ 

This space provided as a public service. 

---~--------~----------------~-­
Friday, October 19, 1-990
page 22' · The Observer 
-Dickerson is back in camp, will play vs. Broncos 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP} -Eric Dickerson is back and the jury is out deliberating if the return of the NFL's No. 7 all-time rusher is good news for the Indianapolis Colts. 
Dickerson is expected to start Sunday when the Colts (2-3) host DenvPr (2-4}, which is try­ing to snap a three-game losing streak to get on the road for a third consecutive Super Bowl appearance. 
Dickerson returns after months of haggling and bad­mouthing of management and some of his teammates. After signing a four-year contract extension worth a reported $10.75 million, the 30-year-old will face opposing defensive players for the first time in nearly 10 months on Sunday. 
"I really don't know how much I'll be able to play, but I know I can play maybe half the plays," said Dickerson, who came off the non-football in­jured list Wednesday. He was placed there Aug. 29 when he failed to take a physical re­quested by the team to deter­mine his recovery from a ham­string injury suffered in the off­season. 
Dickerson began practicing Tuesday and goes into Sunday's 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Arendt scored ten goals and had 17 assists last season. while linemate Sterling Black tied for third on the team in goals with 14. Fellow sopho­more. lf'ft wing Dan Marvin missed the last 13 games with a shoulder injury. 
"Marvin is back at full strength and will use his many skills to advantage," said Schafer. 
Junior Kevin Patrick and sophomore Dan Sawyer lead a core of defenseman that must play more consistent for the Irish to be successful this sea­son. 
Schafer realizes that now is the time for Notre Dame to start making major strides in becoming a team that can com­pete nationally. Also on the schedule this year is back-to­hack Division III champion Wisconsin-Stevens Point. Next, year CCHA teams University of Illinois-Chicago and Michigan as well as others will test the Irish. The Irish got some of their best experience against top competition last year against now WCHA member Saint Cloud State. 
BEAT MIAMI! 
~ ~ 
·The Rush Is On! 
game on the verge of climbing up on several NFL career lists. His 11,226 yards rushing leaves him just 11 short of moving past O.J. Simpson into sixth place on the rushing list. He needs just one rushing toucb­down to tie Jim Taylor for fourth place (83) in that cate­gory and will move past Ollie Matson (12,884) into 10th place in combined yards rushing and receiving with 11 yards. 
Albert Bentley, who has car­ried the offensive load this year with 275 yards rushing and 258 receiving, is expected to start with Dickerson as the Colts uti­lize a two-back offense. 
"I don't think they'll change their attack. just change their personnel," said Denver coach Dan Reeves, who saw Dickerson score four touch­downs and rush for 159 yards when the teams met here two years ago. "Bentley's been playing extremely well. ... The fact that you've got a bigger guy that is one of the great rushers of all time makes our job more difficult." 
While Denver has lost three straight, Indianapolis used fourth-quarter comebacks to defeat Philadelphia and Kansas City in its last two games. 
"Those games were the high­
"We've worked on a couplelights of our season," said 
things in preseason. We've putSchafer. "We played well in 
in a new forechecking systemthree of four. We did certain that is effective when well exe­things in those games that put cuted. Put sometimes all the us in a position to win. We were drills and controlled scrim­extra cautious and patient. We mages you do in preseasonhave to wait patiently for our 
don't turn out the same againstopportunities. opponents." 
roo. :0... ~ i\.~ Chinese-American 

: ~' '~ ~rJ I 
Restaurant &

Cocktail Lounge ~ U 1'\1 j Authentic Szechuan, 
. 'l ft

~.J,..., Mandarin 
& Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at----$3.95 
Dinners starting at----$5.45 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon. -Thurs. 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m, Fri. -Sat. 11 :30 am. to 11 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
130 Dixie WayS., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
?it! 1'1f/.f ~ u 9eda­
?Jt. ~~··· 

"I think they've got a lot of 
confidence whether it's 
Dickerson or Bentley that they 
can get the job done," Reeves 
said. 

The Colts will start Jack 
Trudeau at quartPrback for the 
third consecutive week as top 
draft pick Jeff George continues 
to recover from an abdominal 
strain that has idled him since 
Sept. 23. 

"Most guys will accept Eric on the field," Trudeau said. "At this level you don't have to love somebody to play with him. I think that's how the guys feel about his return. He has friends on this team, but most guys are just going to go out and do their job." 
The threat of Dickerson breaking loose in the secondary is welcomed by Trudeau. 
"When Eric has played his best football, teams (defenses) have had to play the run more against us and it's opened up the passing game. Even though, we were still pretty one dimen­sional. I think now, with Eric, if he can play to his old level, the passing game is a lot farther along than it was ever before," Trudeau said. "We're doing things that we've never done. 
-~ 
~~ 

~·-
APPhotl 
The Colts' Eric Dickerson is back in uniform after holding out for a new contract. He is expected to play against the Broncos Sunday. 


HOWARD JOHNSON 
~~..................., 
Lodge/South Bend 
Special Rate! 
Rooms From 
24.95 
(Plus Tax & Lucal Phnnel 
INCLUDES CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 
This Special Rate is available at the Howard Johnson Lodge, located 1/z mile north of Indiana Toll Road 80/90 on U.S. 31 & 33 North (Exit 77) 
We are just minutes away from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, Down~ town, Shopping and Restaurants. 
For Reservations call 
219~272~1500 
or walk in 
This room rate is valid until April 30, 1991, with the excep­tion of Notre Dame Football weekends (Fridays & Saturdays) and Notre Dame's Jr. Parents' weekend (February 15 & 16, 1991). Nor to be used with any other promotions or discounts. 
HOWARD JOHNSON LODGE 52939 U.S. 31-33 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 Telephone: 219-272-1500 
Friday, October 1·9, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 



CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE 
Wt.lL, \~ II IS~T OL' ~ ~ou cA~'r 1Hl. 'tli-\ICI-\ Roc~T -IMT.' [ GUESS W>-'i l't<\ F(>..C\~G, 9::> 'IC1J 
10U WCllllT B£ ~tKI~ ON cmr ~E"-\c:. \JP F~ S£1\1~~­
ME AA~ ~E ·' st£ I l'!oo\ 1\Jt. FI~P--ll'{ 1i\WM~IH) "iCIJR 
I W~Q.\~G t>. l-IAS\(. 0~ i\1E 1..\\JROtROIJS. ~'i:.CRThTI~! Bf>..G. Of M'1 1\Ef>.O! 
0 

Stand-up comedians are needed for a campus show In near future. Call Adam by today at 283-3374. 
Today Is the deadline for Urban Plunge sign­ups. Registration forms are still available at the Center for Social Concerns or Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, or Campus Ministry and Justice Education office at Saint Mary's through today. 
Habitat for Humanity representative Patrick Murphy '89 will be available to answer questions today at the Center for Social Concerns from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Baked Pollock sesame Swedish meatballs with mushroom sauce Pork tenderloin sandwich Vegetable rice casserole 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 


ACROSS 
1 Retired 5 Civil wrong 9 Playlet 
13 Group of turtles 14 "... with him is beauty-": 
Shak. 16 Hawaiian city 17 Divine vocation 10 Form of 
Japanese poetry 19 Over again 20Annie's exclamation 23 City's political division 24 Kind of code 25 Bon or tableau follower 28 Dark lantern 
33 Scents 34 Le Moko et al. 35Mazel-! 36 Decorated 
tinware ·37 Obtest 38 A vegetable, for 
short 39 Tolkien creature 40 Blunders 41 Neatness 42 Ship section 44 Pitches 45 Hawaiian 
wreath 46 Partner of now 47 Disney 
character 53 Dark red 540newho 
sniggles 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...,:;+:.:..j.,:,+;-R 
.:.:.j..:=+!=+-=~'-=-lH:::..j..:=-1 ~~;+,:,t,:.~~=:;+;;.~ 

55 Romp 57"... -vincit omnia": 
Chaucer 58 Move furtively 59 Bacchanal cry 60 R.N.'s helpers 61 Silicles 62 Gainsay 
DOWN 
1 Network for 
Peter Jennings 2 Idol for Jezebel 3 French 
periodical 4 Red grape grown for table 
use s Informal attire 6 A portrayer of 
Charlie Chan 7 Scold aKon·-, 
Heyerdahl's boat 
nose 31 Rube 21 Reviews 
32 He threw to 

unfavorably 
Chance 22 Is under the 
34 Drain stopper 

weather 37Des-,111.
25 Casts a ballot river
28 "-Care," 1905 song 38 Corrugated 
27--face 40 Liberated, in (reversal) Berlin 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

41 Oil cartel 43"-Tune," 
1941 song 44 Malingers 46 Tendency 47 Move, in 
checkers 48 Byzantine holy picture 
49 Kennel sound 50 Award for a TV 
commercial 51 Roof overhang 52 Disney movie: 
1982 53 Cater-cousin 56 One of 88 for 
Van Cliburn 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900·420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


-
... 
GARY LARSON 

-
0 



0 0 0 
0 
0 

0
0 
0 
0 
" 

-
: ·. :.· .......... ,'' .:.\,,._ ..... ·. 
. ....... ,... . 


Porter leads the freshmen for women's soccer 
By DAVE DIETEMAN tween midfield and forward. 
while being named the MVP Dame inevitably arises, as Sports Writer "Stephanie Porter has been Offensive Player in her junior does when speaking of any very solid in the midfield for and senior years. She was also ented Texas athlete. This weekend, Notre Dame us," remarked Notre Dame a member of the South Texas "I liked the fact that Notr sports fans will have the head coach Chris Petrucelli. Women's State Soccer Team as Dame was a 
-
opportunity to watch an Irish "She may not be the best a senior. school," said Porter. "I liked 
team on the rise. This team player on the field at the "Stephanie is very talented fact that they were gettin features, among a host of beginning of the game, but by on the ball and she strikes the new coach and expanding talented players, a skilled and the end of the game, everyone ball very well," said Petrucelli. program. I had also looked at determined freshman. knows that she's out there. "She could play up front or in George Washington, Stanford, 
Question: Who is it? "She and the other midfield­the midfield. We have tried to Texas Christian, and UNC­Hint: It's not a varsity foot­ers [Marianne Giolitto and play off of her in games Greensboro." ball player. Margaret Jarc] are the key to because she holds the ball very Since coming here, Porter 
Answer: Stephanie Porter of whether we win games or not. well. I don't know if two many confesses that she have taken a the women's soccer team, in In the first half against Saint people expected her to score liking to their coach and fellow action against Calvin College Mary's they didn't win balls, the goals she has scored, but players.
Stephanie Porter 

on Saturday morning at 10 and in the second half we won with the way she strikes the "I think that coach knows the 
a.m. at Alumni Field. every ball. That fact was key to notching three assists (fourth) ball, she is dangerous every game really well, and I think 
Porter , a freshman from our win." for a total of 21 points (third). time she steps on the field." that we all enjoy playing for Spring, Texas, has been a In the 16 games of the sea­Included in her goal total is the Due to the wealth of him," said Porter. "We like him pleasant addition to the Irish son, Porter has taken 35 shots game-winner over Indiana. premium athletic programs in because he breaks things down offense, splitting her time be-on goal, scoring nine goals At Klein High School, Porter the south, the question of why 
(second on the team), and earned two letters for soccer, Porter chose to come to Notre see PORTER I page 21 
.. Irish hockey team ready to begin the new season 
Play first game against traditional power Minnesota 
By MIKE KAMRADT mark. They slumped at the end goalie." Sports Writer of the season but, will be ready One thing Schafer shouldn't to make more strides this year. have to worry about too much 
Last season, the Notre Dame "We're moving up in confidence this season is whether his team hockey team won six of its first levels with good reason," will score goals. The Irish av­seven games and ten of its first Schafer said. "This is the best eraged over 4 1/2 goals a game twelve. They'll be hard pressed last year. The top two lines are
hockey team we've had in the made up entirely of veterans.
to do that again. last three years." 
The top line is centered by ju­"Overall our schedule is The biggest question for the nior Dave Bankoske who ledstronger," said Head Coach Ric Irish this year is at goalteQder. 
the team with 28 goals and 28Schafer. "We have a good mix Gone is the most prolific goalie assists last season. Bankoske,of 22 Division I teams and ten in Irish history, Lance Madson. 
who possesses amazing passing Division III teams." Madson set records in saves for 
skills and great ice-presence
-
The Irish will begin the sea­a season (1288), career wins will be one of the leaders for 
son with a five-game road trip. (56)and saves in a career the team. 
They'll open against traditional (3519), to mention a few. "We're looking for bigger and 
powerhouse Minnesota, travel Although the Irish goalies this better things from Bankoske to Alaska-Fairbanks to face a year are inexperienced they do this year,"said Schafer. "He's an team that Schafer formerly have a good deal of talent. The extremely skilled player." coached, and then go to Kent quartet consists of freshmen Joining Bankoske will be 
sophomore left winger Lou
State for two games. Greg Louder and Brent Lothrop Zadra (17 goals, 19 assists) and"We wanted to go straight to and sophomores Carl Picconato 
classmate Curtis Janicke (10
Alaska and have a nice and Scott Gelling"We have goals, 21 assists).
training camp," said Schafer. some good ones," said Schafer. 
"Janicke made the
"We'll get there Wednesday "Louder is going to thrown adjustment to collegiate hockey and have some time to sight­right in there against 
very quickly last year," said see also." Minnesota. He won't be exactly Schafer. Make no mistake, though, easing his way in. He's shown The Irish don't lose much, if this is not a pleasure trip by in pre-season that he's capable anything with their second line any means. The Irish will be of the spectacular, but he's also on the ice. Junior center Pat ready though, and looking to capable of the very average. I improve on last year's 18-15 think he'll be a good college see HOCKEY I page 22

.. 
Friday, October 19, 1990 
No rest for ND soccer; four games over break 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
While most of the campus is sitting at home, recovering from a hellish week of exams, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will have no such luck. 
Over break, it will play four games, including two big games versus MCC foes Xavier and Evansville. The Irish will then travel to Miami, Fla., to take part in the Southern Bell Classic, where they will face North Carolina-Charlotte and Florida International. 
The Irish, 3-7-3 on the sea­son, kick ofT the weekend when they host Xavier tonight at 
7:30. The Musketeers are only 2-12 this season, with one of their wins coming against the same Detroit team that de­feated Notre Dame earlier this season. The Irish are definitely not looking past Xavier. 
"It's a huge game for our seeding in the MCC 
Tournament," said senior co­captain Paul LaVigne. "If we win, we won't have to play Saint Louis or Evansville in the first round." 
Last year Notre Dame played the Musketeers in the first round of the MCC Tournament, with the Irish prevailing 3-2. Xavier has had trouble with Notre Dame in South Bend. The Irish are 3-0 against the Musketeers at home, with a 2-0 record in Krause Stadium. 
The Irish play their toughest game of the season, in more ways than one, Monday at Evansville. The Purple Aces are ranked second in the country with a 15-0-2 record, but Paul LaVigne remembers them more for their rough play than for their soccer ability. 
"I have never played a dirtier team," said LaVigne. "Evansville was an embarrass­ment to soccer." 
see MEN I page 20 Raghib "Rocket" Ismail bursts for a big gain against Air Force last week.lrish fans hope that the Rocket will propel Notre Dame past the Hurricanes this Saturday. 









