
VOL. XXIII NO. 125 TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Soviet 'rektor' visits ND, studies curricula, promotes student exchange programs 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
(;lasnost arrived at Notre DamP last wnnk in thn form of Vladimir I>obrnnkov, vice rector fhr Hnsnarch and Studios of the llumanilins at Moscow State Uniwrsity. 
Dobnmkov and his wife Nadia madn tlw visit to Notrn Dame as a part of a month-long trip involving visits to a fnw Anwrican uniwrsitins to work on thn devnloprm~nt of nnw curricula which ndlncts the rncPnt changns in the Sovint Union and incorporates knowl­ndgn and nwthodologies from tlw UnitPd Statns and otlwr Wnstl'rn countriPs. 
Promoting scholar Pxchange programs at tlw u ndl'fgrad uatn (pvf'l is also an important sng­nwnt of tlw I>obn~nkov's trip. "It is important that young pnopiP mnl't nach other and gain mutual undnrstanding through friPndship." lw said Monday at a press conference. 
Sovint and Anwrican studnnts should seek knowlndge of thn nrlturP and history of both l'ountrins, hn addnd. 
"Notrn Damn is very intPrest­ing," said Dobrenkov. lie said that hn had heard many good things about tlw University, but lw had nevt>r had the opportu­nity to visit prior to this trip. 
During his stay at Notre Damn. he nwt with University 
Vladimir Dobrenkov 
Presid1mt Father Edward Mal­loy and Provost Timothy O'Meara. Dobrenkov said he also had the opportunity to spend a day with various pro­ft~ssors from the College of Arts and Letters. 
Af'tnr visiting the llesburgh Library. Dobnmkov said. "It is important to learn how other librari1~s function." lie said he exchanged information and ad­dressns with Library Director Hobert Miller. In the future he said lw hopes to exchange books and library specialists. 
Visits to the llesburgh Insti­tute for International Peace Studies. the Kellogg Institute and the Medieval Institute were highlights of Dobrenkov's stay at Notre Damn. 
In their leisure time the Uo­brenkovs visited the Indiana Dunes. "We liked it very much, it was wondnrful." said Mrs. Dobrenkov. 
Mrs. Dobrenkov also visited the University Park Mall. She said that the stores are "very different" in the Soviet Union. American stores have a "great deal of selection" and many "bright colors," added Mrs. Dobrenkov. "In comparison to stores in the U.S., Soviet stores are very modest." 
Dobrenkov commented brinlly on the situation in Lithuania saying that he "hopes our (Soviet) government and the Lithuanian government lind a good sol uti on to the problem." lie added that compromise is necessary before the conflict can be solved. 
Public support . for Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachnv is high, according to Dobrenkov. "Gorbachev is experiencing a very difficult time now," he said. "lie (Gorbachev) is a very dever political leader." 
Dobrenkov said that Gor­bachev is an "intellectual man" and pointed out that Gorbachev is an alumnus of Moscow State University. 
Monday the Dobrenkov's left South Bend to travel to Duke University, they will return to the Soviet Union on April 20. During their time in the United States they visited the Soviet Embassy, the University of Pittsburgh, the Esalen Institute in Big Sur and the University of Wisconsin. 

AP Photo 
Biking to benefit AIDS victims 
Friedr~ch Reher, of Bremen, West Germany, stopped in Pikesville, Ky. th1s weekend. He is bicycling across America to benefit chil­dren suffering from AIDS. 
Llosa will stay in Peru presidential race despite odds for runoff victory 
I.IMA, PIJI'u (API -Mario been ready to end his candidacy ond to Vargas Llosa and has was not enthusiastic about con-his family last Wednesday to Vargas l.losa said Monday he to save Peru the turmoil of two emerged as a favorite in the tinuing his presidential cam-mull over the decision on will continue his presidential more months of election cam­runoff because he is expected paign. whether to continue the race. campaign and participate in an paigning but was persuaded to to pick up the support of voters Key supporters said the nov-lie said Monday night hoped Plnction runoff against Alberto continue for the good of this who favored leftist candidates. elist had been considering the second round of campaign-Fujimori, a political neophyte Andean nation, wracked by Vargas Llosa said a major dropping out because he was ing would produce a "dean de­now favored to win Peru's nconomic problems and a vio­factor in his decision was the reportedly discouraged by the bate" on the best ways to solve presidency. lent guerrilla uprising. constitutional requirement for prospect that he would lose the Peru's problems. 
"I will go to the second round lie had been seriously consid­a runoff if no candidate re-runoff or, if he won, face the News commentators and po­lighting for the n~forms that ering dropping out of the ceives a majority of votes, ef-prospect of governing the coun-litical figures dose to the our country needs," the cele­runoff election after a disap­fectively barring by law from try without control of writer had said earlier Monday brated novelist said in a brief pointing showing in the April 8 withdrawing his name from the Congress. they were convinced he would statement following a two-hour opening round, according to second round. Vargas Llosa, author of such stay in the race. meeting with campaign strate­key ligures in his campaign. That appeared to confirm re-celebrated books as "The Green gists and leaders of his center­Fujimori, the descendent of ports he was participating in House," "Aunt Julia and the Vargas Llosa harshly criti­right Dmnocratic Front coali­Japanese immigrants and a po­the runoff. expected to be held S c r i p t w r i t e r ' ' a n d cized the leftists' policies, while 
litical unknown when he startnd in late May or early June, to "Conversations in The Cathe-Fujimori conducted a concilia­tion. 
Vargas Llosa said he had the campaign, ran a dose sec-fulfill a legal requirement and dral," went into seclusion with tory campaign. 
Kinkopf named Alumni's Distinguished Student 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
David Kinkopf, former stu­dent body vice president, has been named the 1990 Alumni Association Distinguished Stu­dent. 
"David is a Notre Dame stu­dent who demonstrates a healthy balance lin] his lifestyle," said Charles Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association. "llis life is inte­grated physically, emotionally, intellectually and spiritually." 
A senior from Lakewood, Ohio, Kinkopf was chosen from 53 nominees. He carries a dou­ble major in biological sciences and theology, according to Cyn­thia Scott, assistant director of Notre Dame's Department of Public Relations and Informa­tion. 
He was a key leader in the creation of the National Asso­ciation of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities. As founder and first president of NASCCU, he spearheaded the first national conference in February at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Scott. 
"I'm thrilled, it's a tremen­dous honor," Kinkopf said. He recognized the fact that there were many qualified seniors up for the award. 
Kinkopf will spend the next year in Puerto Rico as a volun­teer tutoring and \Wirking in a soup kitchen. The project is sponsored by the Puerto Rican 
see KINKOPF/ page 4 
Youth may be connected to Grace thefts 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
A youth who appeared in Grace Hall on April 14 for the second time may be connected to several robberies in that building, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
"He is believed to he a 'little brother' of a resident of Grace," Hurley said. This may or may not be the reason he was in Grace, aceording to Hurley. The youth is approxi­mately 13 to 14 years old. 
The juvenile had also been spotted at another campus Io~ cation before his appearances in Grace. "The first time he was "All of the items wP.re ac­seen here was back in March at counted for," Hurley said. the Hockne Memorial. The indi­vidual was kicked out of the Also on April 14, another Rockne," Hurley said. resident of Grace Hall reported 
the theft of his wallet from a 
Two r.obberies were reported drawer in his desk. He last saw in Grace on April 14. The first the wallet at about 9 p.m. on involved a resident who went te April 12 and noticed it missing play basketball at the Book· at 9 a.m. on April 13. store courts sometime in the afternoon. Upon returning to "Two juveniles were seen . his room around 7 p.m., the after midnight on April 14 in student noticed that a gold Grace Hall. One of them was chain with a medallion, a identified as the individual last bracelet. a gold diamond ring 'Seen on the 12th." Hurley said. and a walkman were all missing 
from a desk drawer. An investigator has been as­signed to the easEl and the 
The next day, all of the items youth will be questioned by Se­were returned to him wrapped curity this week, accordiQg to ln a handkerchief and placed in Hurley. front of the door to his room. 
Tuesday, April 17,1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Matheney trial 
necessitates 
death penalty 
The man sat there in the chair, his bald --------­
head dotted with electrodes and his hands and feet strapped to the chair. He had just talked to a priest and had a de­licious meal. Sud­
denly, as the wit-John O'Brien 
nesses looked on, a man behind a wall Managing Editor through a switch. The man in the chair writhed and squirmed as the electricity shot through his body. As the flow continued, his eyes rolled back in his head and he lost control of his excretory functions. Soon he was dead. No this was not a scene from some horror movie. The above scene is acted out every time someone is executed in the electric chair. At every execution, protesters are a common sight. They come with signs that read "We have no right to play God," "The death penalty is cruel and unusual punish­ment," or simply, "Don't support legal mur­der." However, there are also protesters from the other side. When mass murderer Ted Bundy was executed, people chanted "Burn Bundy Burn" and sang a new version of "On Top of Old Smokey," substituting the name of Florida's electric chair. The latter group shows what is wrong with the death penalty. To some twisted people, it has become like a circus. This mentality surfaced in the recent Texas Democratic gubernatorial primary. In a now infamous campaign spot, former Gov. Mark White struts through a panorama of faces bragging of the fact that 32 criminals were executed under his tenure. Luckily, White didn't make it to the primary. White was proud of his record. That scares me. The last thing he should have been is proud. It was bad enough that crime was rampant enough to warrant 32 executions, but it was worse that he was proud of the fact that he took the lives of 32 people. Taking the life of a human being should not be a source of pride for White. It's nothing to be proud of but, unfortu­nately, it is necessary in our society. Every day this paper and others like it across the nation run stories of people who are bru­tally murdered, tortured and raped by criminals, many of whom are repeat offend­ers. In a highly publicized local case, Alan Ma­theney has been convicted of murdering his ex-wife, Lisa Bianco, while out on furlough. He had threatened her before, but this time he followed through, clubbing her with the butt of a shotgun as her children watched. In the Matheney case, the jury has rec­ommended that the judge sentence Matheney to death. Does Matheney deserve to die? He has proven to be beyond reform, and prison obviously doesn't scare him Alan Matheney should be sentenced to death. I am not proud of the fact that he should be executed, for I believe in the sanctity of human life. But that includes Lisa Bianco's life. too. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71 Today's Staff: 
Production  News  Sports 
Wendy Cunningham  Monica Yant  
Arnel Gallanosa  Pete Yob  Ken Tysiac  
VII!WpOint  Accent  
Arnel Gallanosa  Paige Smoron  
Joe Zadrozny  Circulation  
Systems  Chris Hanley  
Gilbert Gomez  Ad Design  Lu Medeiros  
Cesar Capella  Amy Eckert  
Kristi Rolke  
Graphics­ Myndy Crist  
Bradford J. Boehm  Kelly McHugh  

Quinn Satepauhoodle 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
r---------------------------·---·­
WEATHER 
50 

Yesterday's high: 60 Yesterday's low: 32 Nation's high: 98 (Presidio, Texas) Nation's low: Z3 (Gunnison, Colo. and Houghton Lake, Mich.) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy and un­seasonably cool today. Highs from the lower to middle 40s. Clear and cold tonight. Lows in the middle 20s. Sunny and a
Pressure 

little warmer Wednesday.
®© m tz3 
Highs from the lower to 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
middle 50s. 


OF INTEREST 

Certified teachers are needed for Transition Craig Shergold is a seven year-old boy in Atlanta, School in Seattle for homeless children (K-6). A ministe­
Ga. who is dying from a brain tumor. His last wish is to rial focus is needed. Youth ministry jobs are available as 
be put into the Guiness Book of World Records for the most get well cards received. In order to help, send cardswell. Contact the Center for Social Concerns or call direct to Channel at (206) 527-2020. 
to: Mr. Craig Shergold rio Children's Wish Foundation; 32 Perimeter Center E; Atlanta, Georgia 30346. 
Hall Presidents' Council is looking for a secretary Of Interests may be submitted for free, one-time 
and an executive coordinator for the 1990-1991 school events. Deadline for submission each day is 1 p.m. at The year. Applications may be picked up in the Secretary's Of­Observer office. fice, 2nd Floor LaFortune and must be returned by April 23. 
WORLD 

Nelson Mandela stepped tri­
Police in Oslo, Norway, estimated 161 people died 
umphantly onto the world stage at a 
in the April 7 fire aboard the Scandanavian Star, but said concert full of rock stars Monday 
the figure was not final because it was still uncertain how night and urged foes of apartheid to 
many passengers boarded the ferry. The Danish-owned wage unrelenting war against the vessel was on an overnight run from Oslo to Frederik­system that jailed him for 27 years in shavn, Denmark. Finstad, the third-in-command, said 
South Africa. The 71-year-old black 
he,Capt. Hugo Larsen, the Norwegian master of the Scan­nationalist leader, spoke for a half­
dinavian Star and other officers left the burning vessel in hour before a sellout crowd of 72,000 
a lifeboat, knowing passengers remained on the deck. The at London's Wembley Stadium. He was interrupted about 
fate of the abandoned passengers, some of whom were 30 times by applause. The address was telecast to mil­
rescued later, was not discussed as they rowed away in lions in 40 countries. The concert sold out in two days. the last usable lifeboat, Finstad said. 
NATIONAL 

Officials at New York Hospital said yesterday Eight in 10 respondents to a survey for Parents that funeral services for Greta Garbo would be private. magazine said animals have some rights. The poll, re­Spokeswoman Myrna Manners said the film great had le~~;sed yesterday, showed that most disapprove of killing been a dialysis patient at the hospital but she released no ammals for sport or for making leather, but most did not other information at the family's request. Garbo starred favor outlawing those activities. Eighty-five percent dis­in 26 films in 17 years but in 1941, at age 36, she quit approved of killing animals to make fur coats, and 63 Hollywood and began living a solitary life. percent said it should be illegal. Eighty-one percent dis­
approved of cosmetics research on animals, and 58 per­
cent said that should be illegal. 

CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE Closings for April16, 1990 
Six hundred and twenty five Notre Dame stu­dents participated in the first Easter Holiday Host pro­gram, according to Rich Daly, assistant director of 
Volume in shares
Alumni Clubs. One-hundred cases of Coca-cola were given away during Badin phone center's free phone calls home 
142.81 Million opportunity, he said. If students have suggestions about the Holiday Host Program, Daly said to stop by the Alumni Association Office in room 201 Administration 
NYSE Index

Building or call him at 239-6193. 
188.94 {} 0.14 S&P Composite
Four University of Notre Dame chemical engi­
400.42 {} 0.46
neering seniors have been awareded National Science 
Dow Jones Industrials 

Foundation (NSF) Graduate Fellowships, according to 
2,763.06 {} 11 .26
Hsueh-Chia Chang, professor and chairman of chemical engineering. They are: Marta Verhoff. a graduate of 
Precious Metals 

Goshen High School in Goshen, Ind.; Donna Martinez, a 
Gold ..!Jr $0.90 to $375.20 1oz.
graduate of East High School in Pueblo, Colo.; and Kim­berly Miller and Theresa Einloth, both graduates of 
Silver..!} 3.7¢ to $5.059/ oz. 
North Hills Senior High School in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Source: AP 

Tuesday, April 17, 1990 The Observer page 3 
English professor Matthias 
Gernes nets 1990 Sheedy Award 
Special to The Observer
to be honored for poetry 
Sonia Gernes, associate
Special to The Observer of Swedish poetry mcluding 
professor of English at th.e
"The Battle of Kosovo." He will 
University of Notre Dame,
John Matthias, professor of receive the Bogin Memorial 
has been named recipient of
English at the University of Award for having written po­
the 1990 Sheedy Award for
Notre Dame, will receive the etry which "reflects the en­
Excellence in Teaching in the
first annual George Bogin counter of the ordinary and the 
University's College of Arts
Memorial Award from the Po­extraordinary, uses language in 
and Letters.
f'try Sodety of America on April an original way, and takes a 
The award, endowed by an
27. stand against oppression in any 
anonymous donor, has been
Matthias. an Ohio native and of its forms." 
given annually since 1970 in 
a member of Notre Dame's The Bogin award memorial­
honor of Father Charles
faculty sinen 1967, is author of izes th!l author of "In a Surf of 
Sheedy, former dean of the
11vn books of poetry including, Strangers" and the translator 
college.
most rncenlly, "Northern Sum­of the work of the Franco­
"Sonia Gernes has been a
mer: NPw and Selected Poems." Uruguyan writer Jules Sup!lr­
sterling example of how a
In addition to his own poetry, vielle. 
creative writer can be a
Matthias has published an­A New York City native, Bogin 
teacher-scholar," says
thologi£~s of cont!Hllporary Bri­was a member of the Poetry 
M i c h a-e I L o u x ,
lish poPts, studies of the poetry Society of America from 1975 
of David Jones and translations until his death in 1988. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Healtn Problem. 


Applications for Junior Parents' Weekend CommiS£>ioner due today, April 17, at &tudent Activities Office, 3rd floor, Lafortune. 
O'Shaughnessy dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "In her close involvement with students and her work to expand the curriculum of the entire university, Profes­sor Gernes stands out as a motivator and thinker for both her students and her colleagues." 
Gernes believes students learn to the degree they are involved in the classroom. ''I've tried to involve them in every class I teach," she adds. "I can't stand to see blank eyes in front of me. I teach many of my classes on the workshop or seminar model, and I insist on discussion even in classes of 50." 
She believes as well that being an active scholar is essential to teaching. "Often the most effective teacher has struggled with the mate­rial and knows the paths into it," she says. "In my writing, I struggle with point 
20°/o Discount TO STUDENTS AND FACULTV 
North of McDonald's 
•Eye Exams  •Large Selection of Frames  •All Types of Contacts  
~- 
-6  - 
~  
1635 N. Ironwood  Professional Vision  
277-1161 South of U.S.23  Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates  277-1161  


a resident professor in the College of Arts and Letters London Program; and serv­ing as a Fulbright Lecturer at the University of Wakaito, New Zealand in 1986. 
Gender Studies, an inter­disciplinary program that explores men and women in society and culture, has proved to be both a teaching and learning experience for Gernes. "Not only is it a wonderful opportunity for
SOnia Gernes 
students to explore this area of view, character, voice and of their lives," she says, "but tone. Out of my own strug­it has brought together fac­gles I can point the way for ulty from various depart­students to work through ments to learn from each their own difficulties." other. It's one of the most 
After four years of teach­exciting curricular develop­
ing high school in her home ments in the 15 years I've state of Minn., Gernes en­been here." tered doctoral studies at the University of Washington. She is author of three vol­She joined the Notre Dame umes of poetry, including faculty in 1975, when the job "Women at Forty" (Notre market was at its worst for Dame, 1988), a collection of literary scholars. After ap­poems based on her experi­plying for every available ences at home and in New opening, she came to Notre Zealand; "Brief Lives" Dame after being (Notre Dame, 1981 ); and "impressed by the way I was "The Mutes of Sleepy Eye" treated, with the (lnchbird, 1981); along with combination of pro-a novel, "The Way to St. fessionalism and personal Ives" (Scribner's, 1982), and concern," she says. After 15 numerous individual poems years at Notre Dame, she and short stories. still finds "a community of friendship here." This is Gernes's second 
Gernes became tenured as­major honor in the 1989­sociate professor of English 1990 academic year. She in 1981. Among the many was awarded a Faculty Open teaching roles she has taken Fellowship from the Lilly En­include chairing the curricu­dowment, Inc., for a leave of lum committee of the re­absence next year, in which cently-created Gender Stud­she will. explore family ies Program; serving as di­archives in Europe and the partment from -1984 to United States to prepare for 1988; teaching a semester as a new collection of oetr . 
Teen's death ignites black unity, increase in activism 

~:<.NGLEWOOD, N.J. (AP) -leaders and community officials Black leaders appealed for took turns at the pulpit to call unity and increased activism for solidarity in the wake of Monday at the funeral of a Pannell's death. black teenager whose shooting Pannell was killed in Teaneck by a white policeman sparked a last Tuesday by an officer re­suburban rampage. sponding to reports that the 
About 300 people packed youth was brandishing a gun. A 

·Community Baptist Church in vigil there the following night this New York suburb for the turned violent, with angry black funeral of Phillip Pannell, 16, youths smashing police car and about 200 more gathered windows and looting stores. outside to listen to the service "No longer will we put up over a speaker. Most were with public officials putting black. guns in the hands of people un­Elected officials, re!igious trained to our needs," said 






After Finals Opportunities 
Appalachian Seminar May 12-18 
A one week seminar in the mountains of Kentucky. Applications available at the CSC. Apply by April20. 
also 


Haiti Trip May 12-28
BoxF Noire D-ame. IN 

46556 A two week service seminar to the impoverished Caribbean country. 
219-239-5142 219-239-5319 

Information: contact Mike Afflech Center for Social Concerns 
University of 

239-7943
Noire Dame 


Theo Bolden, a junior at Tea­neck High School. "Today we say goodbye to Phillip Pannell, but with our minds and hearts and souls we must say hello to the black community of tomor­row." 
George Powell, president of the Bergen County chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, touched on a theme heard throughout the two-hour service, saying parents in the minority community must listen to children who complain of ra­cial harassment. 
"We apologize to our children for letting them down and not lending an attentive ear in a critical time of need," Powell said. 
Herbert Daughtry, the Pannell family's pastor, read the names of about 10 blacks killed recently in altercations with police in the New York metropolitan area. Despite the riot in Teaneck the day after Pannell's death, the black community has been compla­cent in responding to violence from police, he said. 
"I just wonder what would happen if a black officer killed a 15-year-old Irish, Italian or Jewish kid," said Daughtry. 
r 
t r 
I 
l 
I 
t 
'
I
• 
~ 
f 
I I 
r 
~ 

AP Photo 

President of the Lithuanian Parliament Vytautas Landsbergis, holding his voting card in Vilnius, thirty days after Lithuania declared indepen­dence from the Soviet government in Moscow. 

Kinkopf 

continued from page 1 
Alumni Club, and there will be 
other ND graduates joining 
him. 
"You would be hard pressed 
to find a student on campus 
who has contributed as much 
to the University as Dave," said 
Rich Daly, assistant director of 
alumni clubs. 
As a freshman Kinkopf 
served on a University commit­
tee charged with developing an 
institutional policy to handle 
students found violating the 
drinking and driving statutes 
~ Supportthe 
and regulations, said Scott. 
Kinkopf was sophomore class president, spent a semester of his junior year in the London program and returned to cam­pus this year as student body vice president. 
He entered the University as a Notre Dame Scholar and has been a dean's list student for all seven semesters at Notre Dame. In addition, he was an Indiana state finalist in the Rhodes Scholarship program, according to Scott. 
Kinkopf has been accepted into Harvard Law School and plans to begin his studies there in the fall of 1991. 


~ Ma~~LQ!!!'es 
• Door .... ODd Dad. 
• 
• There'• ~ dw I'" boeoo ...... 10 1111 
• 
• 
yoa. I'm telllnJ yoa IIIII -.... I '-"' you boch very much ODd Willi 10 lbaN 1hll pon tl my wllb • 
yoa. 
• I'm 1117·• 
I ,.... you may bo lbodood ............ -rbo
• I w-"'" 1e

llllll' or ooofuoed. -dall ­
• 
... iD uo way 10 bl-r... tllll. Ia raoc. ~ lo
• 

• 
ao blame to place ~-I'm DDt ubarDed or.....,.. 
• 
ruocd about boin1 I•Y· II laa'l .-lllq dall 
wu cauocd by bid pamltlnJ, uor wu I -w
• ruruiled or molclted. lt'a n01 tt.r I caa't o.d • 1i:i1 lba1 Ute me, or 111ytbin1 like dial. ScloellJu 
• 
and aociolo&iltl don't exactly know wily I"m py, 
• 
• 
but lhcy &lmoll all ._ 1ba1 II illl't a c1ookoo I nwle, lba1 I juol am and uo ..,_ ol -.py 0< 
•........utaa wUl chao,. dw.
• You may be wonderina why I don't Melli py, wlaJ
• 

I duu't ru 1be p-you have of 1117 people.
• 

You'rw probably 1hillldac. "I -·• •• .,. -le 
• 
become lib 'tllooc f14op/4.'" Y• P1l .-.w• 
• 
know lb&l 1be 11ereocn-dial you ba" boeoo -­ditlooed 10 I<CDpl -· • .,. people u.,ly ..... 
Bold .. oeuty aU 117 peap1e an ipMeetep•+•hh
• from auaiahu. We doe't ••'*· •• ._., u.,, w
• 

don't wuu to wear ....... n•u ... -...
• 

... D ahrCJI ...... .. Nine toll ,........... Uld boeu proad or lor ovor ._, ,...... 
• 
• : hope that telling you dda IMina• ua ..._ topdl­
• 
er. I love you bolh • o.ly 10ld yw -" boeiUM 
I hoped ,.,. would ·-'li tl1ll w.,-.
• [Y__ Low,....., 
• 


The Observer Tuesday, April 17, 1990 
Lithuania asks for Soviet meeting 
MOSCOW (AP) -Lithuania on Monday asked Mikhail Gor­bachev to meet immediately with the secessionist republic's president to provide details of Moscow's threatened economic sanctions so that Lithuanians can be prepared. 
It would be Gorbachev's first meeting with Lithuanian Presi­dent Vytautas Landsbergis, who was elected after the Baltic republic declared independence from the Soviet Union on March 11. 
Some Soviet publications suggested Gorbachev, with newly expanded presidential pawers, will refuse to discuss the standoff as long as Lands­bergis is leading the breakaway republic. 
Landsbergis told a news con­ference Monday night that if the Soviet Union closes Lithua­nian borders to prevent ship­ments from foreign countries, "We will consider it a form of aggression." 
In a telegram to Gorbachev, Lithuanian Prime Minister Kazimieras Prunskiene said Lithuania wants to explain to its people what difficulties they may face if they continue ignor­ing an ultimatum Gorbachev is­sued Friday. 
Gorbachev gave Lithuania 48 hours to rescind laws aimed at bolstering its drive for inde­pendence or face a cutoff of products the Kremlin supplies. He did not spell out the items, but Lithuania depends on the Kremlin for oil, gas, machinery, raw materials, chemicals and automobiles. . 
The deadline expired Sunday night with no visible cut in de­liveries, but also no yielding by Lithuania. 
Prunskiene's telegram said such broad action would dam­age both the Soviet and Lithua­nian economy. She suggested the best way to clarify the threat would be at an immedi­ate meeting in Moscow with a Lithuanian delegation headed by Landsbergis. 
If measures are not defined, Prunskiene said in an interview on Soviet television Monday night, "this is a cold and very hard war, a war with the people of Lithuania, which includes people who consider themselves citizens of the Soviet Union." 
Her remark implied that Gor­bachev's sanctions would boomerang, hurting loyal Sovi­ets in Lithuania he claims to be protecting. If fuel is cut off, many Russian factory workers would lose their jobs and plants in the Soviet Union would stop getting parts manufactured in Lithuania. 
The evening newscast Vremya ran the Prunskiene interview in an unusually straightforward broadcast. Much Soviet news coverage of the Lithuanian cri­sis has been slanted, despite Gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or openness. 


Vilnius Radio quoted Prun­skiene as saying the leadership of Lithuania's legislature de­cided that "until we see definite physical measures against Lithuania's industry and econ­omy, all contractual obligations to the U.S.S.R. must continue to be carried out by all our enter­prises, so there should be no pretext for possible disruption of supplies by the Soviet Union." 
The telegram was sent to Gorbachev after an emergency meeting Monday of the Presid­ium, or legislative leadership. 
ADVENTURE 
SKILL 
EXCITEMENT 
CLASS PATES 
REGISTRATION 

FOUR POOL SESSIONS EQUIP PARTICIPANTS WITH THE SKILLS FOR A ONE-DAY EXCURSION AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE COURSE 
APRIL 17, 18, 24, I 28 
8:30 -1:00 PM A I ROLFS AQUA TIC CENTER -POOL I CLASSROOM 
SATURDAY, APRIL 28-TO BE PLANNED BY GROUP $11.00 PER PERSON (INCLUDES EQUIPMENT ADVANCED REGISTRATION AND FEES NECESSARY 
ENROLLMENT: MINIMUM OF 5 
SEMINAR ON BUSINESS FACULTY CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS, SENIORS AND JUNIORS IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 
ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
WHAT'S INVOLVED IN BECOMING A BUSINESS PROFESSOR? WHAT ARE THE ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS? HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE? HOW MUCH DOES IT COST? ARE SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILAB·LE? OTHER FINANCIAL HELP? WHAT ARE THE STARTING SALARIES AND TRENDS? WHAT ARE THE CAREER SATISFACTIONS FROM TEACHING, RESEARCH, AND SERVICE? HOW MUCH CONTROL OVER YOUR LIFE DO YOU HAVE? IF I AM INTERESTED, WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS TO TAKE? 
I INVITE YOU TO JOIN MANY OF THE COLLEGE'S FACULTY AND OTHER INTERESTED STUDENTS FOR BRIEF FACULTY PRESENTATIONS AND A PANEL DISCUSSION. I HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE. THIS MEETING JUST MIGHT MAKE YOU CONSIDER AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT CAREER! PLEASE JOIN US . 
DEAN JOHN G. KEANE 
TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 4:15 PM ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 

10:00 AM 3 & 6 MILE RUNS 
NEW DIVISIONS 
$4 IN ADVANCE 22-35 UNDERGRADUATE 
$5DAYOF 36-45 
NEATT-SHIRTS 46-55 
WEAR GREEN AND GET A BUCK BACK 

56 ANDOVER 
on a "system of negotiation and Finally, this idea is mani­use of discretion," De Lima said fested in the fact that torture that the Brazilian justice sys­of prisoners is allowed in tem is based on a "system of Brazil. In this regard, De Lima suspicion." said that in Brazil, "torture in 
According to De Lima, order to gain information is a Brazil's system stems from the legitimate technique." 
GOD GIVES EACH OF US ONE LIFE 
WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH YOURS? 
Have you considered 
lHf HOlY C~O~~ CANDIDAU YfA~? 
A one year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame Tor college graduates interested in exploring ministry as aHoly Cross priest or brother. Scholarship grants are avairable. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Tuesday, April17, 1990 

AP Photo 

Phoenix financier arrives in Washington 
Charles Keating Jr., trying to regain control of the government seized Lincoln Savings and Loan, has introduced documents in Washington which he says show that regulators devalued Lin­coln's assets to make it appear insolvent. 
DEPARTMENT OF I'IIILOSOI'IIY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE MCMAIWN/HANK INAUGURAL LECTURE 
BY 

ALASDAIR MACINTYRE 
MCMAIION/IIANK I'IWFJo:SSUH OJ I'IIJI.OSOJ>IJY UNIVERSITY OF NOTHE DAMF 

'THE PRIVATIZATION OF GOOD' 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18TH 
7:30 P.M. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 
Three Noire Dame racully mtmbtrs will cumrnenl on Proressor Macintyre's 
talk: Donald Kommers, Deplrhntnl or Go\·crnmenl and School or Law; 
Richard McCormick, Department or Thrology, and David Solomon, 
Department of Philosophy. Following lhr st>ssion, Hlfrt> will be a reception 
In honor or Professor Macintyre. 

The Observer page 5 


Former dean, professor emeritus Sheedy dies Sat.; funeral service to be held Thurs. 

Special to The Observer 
Father Charles Sheedy, pro­
fessor emeritus of theology and 
former dean of the College of 
Arts and Letters at Notre 
Dame, died Saturday. He was 
77 and suffered from chronic 
lung disease. 
Funeral services for Sheedy 
will be Thursday, April 19, at 
3:30 p.m. in the Moreau Semi­nary Chapel. Father Theodore llesburgh, University president emeritus, will be the principal celebrant and homilist. Burial will be in the community ceme­tery. 
A wake service will be held at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday, April 18, in the chapel. Hickey Funeral Home is in charge of arrange­ments. 
Sheedy enrolled in the Uni­versity in 1929, graduating in 1933 with an A.B. degree in theology. Returning to his home town, he studied law for the next three years at the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh, where he re­
-ceived an L.L.B. in 1936. 
He entered the novitiate of the Congregation of the Holy Cross January 1, 1937 and was ordained a priest on June 24, 1942. From 1944 to 1946, he studied at the Catholic Univer­sity of America, where he re­ceived a doctoral degree in the­ology. 

' -· ... .
A.. .. "'-...' ....... ........... 

U.S., Brazil differ in justice systems 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
The criminal justice systems in Brazil and in the United States are greatly different, ac­cording to Robert Kant De Lima. 
De Lima, a visiting professor from the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said, "In order to enhance our understanding of society and culture, empha­sizing differences is more im­portant than noting similari­ties." 
De Lima, a native of Brazil, spent 10 years researching criminal justice in both Brazil 
Father Charles Sheedy 

A specialist in moral theology and Christian ethics, Sheedy oc­casionally took controversial stands on many contemporary social issues. In 1957, long be­fore the morality of nuclear arms had become a concern of the mainstream Church, he had condemned the use of nuclear weaponry even for defensive purposes. 
In 1964, testifying before a legislative committee of the Commonwealth of Mass., he advocated the abolition of capi­tal punishment. Following the Supreme Court decision in 1973 to legalize abortion, Sheedy correctly predicted that the is­sue of "meaningful" human­hood would soon carry over into areas such as retardation, euthanasia and suicide. 
A major postwar figure at the University, Sheedy was dean of 
and in Birmingham, Ala. 
In his April 12 lecture, "Criminal Justice: A Compara­tive Approach, Brazil and the United States," De Lima said that, in the United States, "negotiation is the ideal resolu­tion of conflict." This would explain the practices of judicial pre-bargaining and police bar­gaining. It also explains the American style of reaching a verdict, which De Lima called "a negotiated public decision." 
According to De Lima, this notion comes from the idea that "A good deal will serve justice better than a fair trial." 
In contrast to the American justice system, which is based traditional idea "that society is already in order. Any conl1ict is going to hurt society." 
This idea is manifested in the fact that police records may be introduced in trials. De Lima said that these records "may legitimately influence a judge." 
It is also manifested in the fact that members of the seven­member jury are not allowed to talk with each other. "Even when giving the verdict, they cannot discuss [the easel with each other. In fact, if it can be proved that they discussed it with each other, the trial can be nullified." De Lima said. 
the College of Arts and Letters from 1952 to 1968 and was twice appointed chairman of the department of theology. 
In 1968, an anonymous .~lumnus established a fund in the College of Arts and Letters for the Charles Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching, de­scribing an excellent teacher as one "who can teach students what is truly important and en­during, and why this is so." 
From 1968-1971 Sheedy served as the dean of theologi­cal studies and institutes and then was in residence as a re­
search scholar at Notre Dame's Ecumenical Institute in Tantur, Jerusalem. lie returned to campus in 1972 and joined the staff of Moreau Seminary where he taught moral theology in the master of divinity pro­gram. 
He retired from teaching in 
,
1979 and went to serve on the staff of Holy Cross Novitiate in 
"" 
Cascade, Colo. In 1982 he moved to Holy Cross Center, Berkeley, Calif., where he also served as a staff member. In 1985 he returned to Corby Hall on the Notre Dame campus and in 1989 retired to Holy Cross House, where he was in resi­dence at the time of his death. 
page 6 

Medellin Cartel questions leader's terrorist activities 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­The Medellin drug cartel rejects its longtime leader, Pablo Escobar, because of his indis­criminate terrorism, according to a statement claiming to be from cartel members. 
The newspaper El Tiempo on Monday doubted the the state­ment's authenticity. It said the format and lettering were dif­ferent from previous docu­ments sent by the traffickers to local media. 
Defense Minister Oscar Botero said Monday he did not know if the statement was au­thentic, but that a split in the cartel does exist over tactics in a battle against the govern­ment. 
"There are many drug traf­fickers," Botero said in a TV interview broadcast by the Cinevision news program, adding that some members of the Medellin Cartel were op­posed to terrorist violence. 
The statement was issued Sunday night and declared: 
"We the Extraditables do not agree with the terrorist acts that Pablo Escobar is ordering in an indiscriminate and per­sonal way. Previously we asked Pablo Escobar to stop detonat­ing bombs and executing inno­cent people because such acts did not help our cause. 
"From now on, we declare ourselves in total disagreement with the terrorist acts ordered personally by Pablo Escobar. We reject the violent way (Escobar) is forcing us to carry on his personal war by kidnap­ping, torturing and threatening our families." 
Authorities have blamed the 
Medellin Cartel for a campaign of bombings and other terrorist violence that killed 238 people in the last eight months. 
The attacks were in retalia­tion for a government crack­down in which 15 drug suspects were extradited and hundreds of traffickers properties seized. 
Last month the cartel ended a unilateral truce declared in Jan. It said the renewed violence was in reply to continued gov­ernment pressure on them. 
In two weeks, terrorists killed 28 police officers in Medellin. On April 5, police defused a 1,650-pound dynamite truck bomb on a main avenue in Bo­gota during morning rush hour. Authorities say the bomb could have killed thousands. 
Authorities blamed the Medellin cartel for all the at­tacks. The statement makes it appear that Escobar may have acted alone. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 17, 1990 

rhe Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
New ROTC building 
Lately, new buildings seem to be appearing all around campus. This new ROTC building is part of the wave of new construction at Notre Dame. ROTC will soon move here from their temporary building. 


is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 

Layout and Design Staff 
To apply, or for further information, 
contact: 
Joe Zadrozny, Production Manager 
at 239-7471or at 283-3128. 
*Can the Soviets trust us to keep our end of the bargain? *What's in the future for U.S.-Soviet Relations? 








U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS 
*Can we trust the Soviets to keep their end of the bargain? *Is a nuclear war "winnable"? 

April 18, 1990 \\ ~rms Control and the Changesin the Communist World*~ 
presented by: 


AMB. RALPH EARLE II 
• 
Chief U.S. negotiator at the SALT II Thlks in Geneva 

• 
Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarma­ment Agency 

• 
Senior Civilian Representative of the Defense Department at NA1D Headquarters 


TIME CHANGE 
8:30 Cushing 

STIJOF..NT UNION BO:\RO 
Tuesday. April 17, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Train explosion leaves 80 dead 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -A leaking gas cylinder explodnd in a moving commuter train on Monday and snt off a lirn that lnft at least SO people d11ad and (,5 othms woundnd, news re­ports and oflieials said. 
Heporters at the scene said the explosion and lire killed at least 100 people. 
Fire swept through two of the train's 16 ears as it traveled near Kurnrahar in Bihar state, 500 mil11s southeast of New lklhi. Tlw fire began at 9:30 a.m. 
· 
Firelighters evnntuaIIy extm­guished the blaze, but "The hnat was so intensn no one dared to entnr the train for at lnast a half-hour after the lire," said S.K. Sharma, the top eivil administrator in the re­gion. Sharma said a cylinder of oxyaeetylene gas, used in weld­ing, was found in one of the guttnd ears. "The outer shell of the bogies (ears) was intact, but the inside was terrible," Sharma said in a tnlephone intnrview. Mathew John, the director of safety for the rederal Hailway Board in New Delhi, said two cylinders of gas caught lire. lie said one of the cylinders was 
SRI 600 miles 'LANKA 
~_::===~---~=:.___)AP 

leaking and apparently ignited when someone lit a match. 
Ham Naresh Singh, a sur­vivor, was quoted by Press Trust of India as saying that because "I would not be able to save anyone and would get killed myself, I jumped off the train." 
The United News of India quoted local officials as saying at least 80 people died and 65 were wounded. 
The Passengers Welfare As­sociation said the train had no emergency brake. 
"It is the most neglected train running in the state. There is 
MOVI UP MOVI OUTI 



1/1, I 

no light, no water, and even no alarm chain," said association President Rameshwar Pandey. 
Press Trust of India said many bodies were buried under smoldering wooden berths and heaps of luggage. 
Bihar is one of the poorest of India's 25 states. 
The train, which was travel­ing from Mokammeh to Arrah, is widely used by morning commuters to Patna, the state capital. 
More than 1 0 million people ride Indian trains every day, and major disasters are re­ported every year. Trains are jammed, often with people rid­ing on the roofs. 
One of the worst train acci­dents in recent years occurred in the southern Indian state of Kerala on July 8, 1988, when 1 03 people died after a train plunged into a lake. 
Two derailments in 1989 claimed 131 lives: 67 near Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh in north central India on April 18, and 64 near Mughalsarai in eastern Bihar on Nov. 1. 
AP Photo 
India's 38,324 miles of tracks 

Children grieve for their slain father
form the world's third-largest rail network after those in the 
The children of slain hostage Mushir ui-Haq cry in New Delhi, In­
Soviet Union and the United 
dia. Haq, who was vice chancellor of Kashmir University, was one 
States. 
of three hostages killed by Moslem secessionists. 
At the end of the semester, the move is on ... to home, to a new apartment or a new job. Whether you're moving from a dorm or off-campus apartment, you'll find Hertz Penske's "do-it-yourself" move is quick, easy and very affordable. 
Get together with a couple of friends or go it alone. Hertz Penske will help you "keep it all together" with everything from packaging materials and accessories to a moving guide that helps you plan every step. Our trucks are some of the newest on the road and are available with all the good stuff ... automatic trans­mission, air conditioning, radio, easy load ramp and much more. 
For an estimate of what your move will cost. or to make a reservation, call today. And be sure to mention your college to receive your "return discount," a 10% discount for your return to school. .. or your next move. 

1·800·111·0177 

Her~z 

PENSKE 

TruckRental 

cab killings frighten N.Y. drivers 
NEW YOHK (AP) -The 

killings of five cab drivers in 
the Bronx, including three who 
may have been victims of the 
same robber, have terrorized 
hundreds of drivers who are 
sacrificing profits for daytime 
driving. 
At the Seaman Car Service, 

employer of the latest victim, 
black flags flew Monday from 
the antennas of cabs, and 
drivers held a memorial pro­
cession. 
At the Flash Car Service Co. 

in the Bronx, only 15 of the 80 
drivers who normally work 
Sunday nights showed up for 
work, said dispatcher Pablo 
Feliciano. 
"Most of them are switching 

to the days," Feliciano said. 
"They're really disturbed about 
what's going on. Everybody's 
shaken up really badly." 
Drivers again vented their outrage later Monday when 400 to 500 cabs descended on a sec­tion of the Bronx and tied up traffic after hearing a false re­port on their radios that an­other driver had been shot, said Officer Fred Weiner. 
With lights on, the cabs parked in the street and blocked traffic from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., said Weiner, a police spokesman. 
"A canvass of the car service companies did not turn up any drivers missing," Weiner said. "They caused a major traffic jam over there." 
The latest killing Saturday and another three days earlier were dismissed by police as un­related to the first three, but the slayings heightened fears in an area where cab drivers haven't felt safe for decades. 
Officer James Terretta, part of a task force of about 30 of­ficers investigating the slayings, said police do not have a suspect in any of the killings but are receiving many tips. 
Mayor David Dinkins has of­fered a $10,000 reward for in­formation leading to the killer or killers. 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -A jury's condemnation of a mur­derous ex-husband adds to a growing intolerance of family violence, says the director of a Elkhart women's shelter. 
The jury, sitting in South Bend, convicted the former husband of a shelter counselor, Lisa Bianco, in her 1989 mur­der. The jurors, nine men and three women, then recom­mended execution. 
"I do feel that they sent a message to the people by their verdict, and by their recom­mendation, that they're not go­ing to. tolerate this anymore," said Michalyn Chilcote. 
"No matter what circum­stances you have lived under, you never have the right to go out and bludgeon somebody." 
Bianco's death was a stun­ning blow to the shelter staff and the battered women she had counseled there. She had finally broken free of a some­times attractive but dangerous relationship, successfully pressed assault charges, and set about rebuilding her life. 
She still so feared Alan Math­eney and his eventual release 
IHJ.fiJM ~11 ~rt ~arrfl!h~~M $rt~pfhflwl•iii iL®rD•a INJ©m~ Jl))~~ I!W<dl Clw~fJ 
Location: Comer of Main & Afth Niles, Ml 683-3317 
Protect yourself and loved ones. / I 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
Tuesday, April 17, 1990 





Verdict condemns domestic violence 
that she planned to move away with her two daughters and change her name. On March 4, though, she had time only to flee her house, and send the children rushing for help, when Matheney broke through the kitchen door brandishing a shotgun. 
He beat her to death with the unloaded weapon outside a neighbor's house. Five hours earlier he had been released, without a promised warning, on a short furlough. 
Her ordeal and the attention the case brought to the women's shelter may have helped others escape before it was too late. 
The eight-bed Elkhart shelter helped more than twice as many women last year and re­ferred even more for help else­where, said Chilcote. ''The pub­licity of the Lisa Bianco case has opened doors so that peo­ple knew these resources were available." 
Callers have asked how to help . friends and co-workers who may have been battered, she said. "Call in, do some­thing, get involved," she said. 



page 8 
Metheney awaits sentencing 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­A jury recommended execu­tion Thursday for a convict who murdered his former wife while on prison fur­lough. 
The same jury Wednesday convicted Alan Matheney of murder and burglary in the 1989 slaying of Lisa Bianco. The jurors rejected his de­fense of insanity. 
Matheney, who listened im­passively to the verdict, stood quitely as the judge read the recommendation of death in the electric chair. Lake Superior Court Judge James Letsinger set sentenc­ing for May 4. 
The defendant's mother, Martha Matheney, showed no emotional reaction as she sat in the back row of the courtroom. She left without comment. 
Eugene Bianco, the victim's father and the grandfather of her two daughters, said he was pleased with the jury's work. 
"It's a just sentence (recommendation) for the crime he committed," he said. "I hope it doesn't drag on for years." 
He said the children still have nightmares from their memories of Matheney's breaking into their home, armed with an unloaded shotgun, and threatening their mother. Matheney chased the partially clad Lisa Bianco into the street and beat her outside a neighbor's home. 
"The kids miss their 
mother more, and they wish 
Matheney was no longer 
their father," Eugene Bianco 
said. 
Letsinger extended a gag order on the trial attorneys until the sentencing. St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes cited the order and declined comment. 
Defense attorney Scott 
King, however, held a brief 
news conference outside the 
courthouse and said he will 
argue for a prison term. 
"The jury was out quite 
some time, so it was obvi­
ously not a snap decision," 
he said. 
The Lake County jury, 
brought with Letsinger to 
South Bend on a change of 
venue, declined to speak with 
reporters. The jury was dis­
missed, and the jurors re­
turned to Lake County. 
The jury of nine men and three women began delibera­tions around 2 p.m., broke two hours for dinner, and signaled a decision around 8:15p.m. 


BRIGHT'~I'(3HT fljBLASTING'$.~~~.~~ 
Buy today for protect1on tonight! 
Pull the activator pin on new pocket size Emergency Alarm Lite. A loud, blasting scream demands attention ... calls for help. Does not stop until activator is replaced. Carry w~h you everywhere for instant protection. No bigger than a pack of cigarettes. Convenient, built-in flashlight perfect for finding dark keyholes and checking the back seat of parked cars at night. A must for your hotel room. runs on inexpensive pen-lite batteries. Great for camping, boating, all sports. Stay safe ... get your Emergency Alarm Lite today. Be ready tonight. 
Send Money order for $9.95 + $1.00 for postage and handling to: 
J.B. Imports 
P.O. Box807 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 
Allow 3 to 6 weeks for delivery 
"Since 1981" 
PASTA DISHES LASAGNA 




§'a~ioi'o

SEAFOOD RISOTIO SHELLS FLORENTINE 
"The Italian 

STUFFED FLOUNDER EGG PLANT PARMIGIAN·A 
Ristorante" 
CAPPELLETII PIZZA 

Dinner 4 p.m. -11 p.m. 
BANQUET ROOM 

Sundays 4 -9 p.m. z= (219) 232-4244 South of Notre Dame's Golden Dome 
.......-::~;;;;;;:::1412 South Bend Avenue 
April Special 
Purchase any dinner at regular price and receive another dinner of equal or lesser value at haH price with this coupon. 
This offer good daily before6 pm. 
D Antwerp, Belgium-lnt'l. Trade D China-Chinese Language and Culture D Tours, France-Language and Culture D Fiesole, Italy-Italian 

Institute D Greece-Humanities 
D Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
D Public Affairs Internships 
D High School Programs 
D Intercultural Training 
D Interpretation and Translation 
D Language Courses D Oxford, England-Comparative D Theology Conference Business (undergraduate) D Literary Criticism Conference D Oxford, England-International D Institute for H.S. Teachers Management (graduate) D Institute on Sacred Scripture D Quito, Ecuador-Spanish D Alumni College D Trier, West Germany-German D English as a Foreign Language D Middle East-H.S. Teachers D Helping Families Cope; D Leningrad, USSR-Russian 
Ethical and Pastoral Care Language and Culture Issues in Genetics D Dublin, Ireland-Modern Irish Literature
Sessions 
D Leicester, England-Shakespeare 

Pre-May 21-June IS First-June It-July 13 Call(202)687-5942ormail to: 8-Week Cross Session-SSCE-Georgerown U niversiry 
June li-August3 3061ntercultural Center Second-July 16-August 17 Washington, D.C. 20057 FAX: (202)687-8954 
Name_______________________________________ 
Address__________________________-,-__________ 
-------------------------------Zip.____ 
Gtt)/KfiW'» ( 'nitvnity is on tqual opportunitylaffirmatit.Jt anion institurion in nnpJoymrnl tJnd admissions. 
Tuesday, April17, 1990 The Observer 
Doctors claim TV causes violent behavior, childhood obesity; urge viewing restraints 
CIIICAGO (AI') -Long-term tPievision viewing is one cause of violnnt or aggressive behav­ior in children and contributes substantially to childhood obfl­sity, tlw American Academy of Pndiatrics said Monday. 
In its first policy statement on childrnn and tnlnvision since 19H4. tlw 39,000-membnr academy called for morn in­volvement by parents and pndi­atridans in regulating chil­dnm's vinwing, and urged that vinwing time bn cut in half. 
By the time a child today reaches agn 70, he or she will have spent approximately seven years watching television, the pediatricians said. 
"For some children, the world shown on television be­comes tlw real world," the statemnnt said. 
The academy also recom­mendnd: 
•lntnnsifying 
p,fforts to teach parnnts and pediatricians about television's innuence, and promoting critical viewing among children. 

•Parnnts' 
limiting children's viewing to one to two hours daily and dnvnloping activitifls such as reading, athlP.tics and hobbies. 


•Supporting 
legislation mak­ing broadcast of high-quality children's programming a con­dition of license renewal and mandating at least one hour per day of educational chil­dren's programming. 

•Supporting 
efforts to ban programs that have toys as main characters. 

•Portraying 
sexuality respon­sibly. 

•Working 
to eliminate alcohol ads on television and encourag­ing extensive counter advertis­ing. 


A.C. Nielsen Co. data indicate children ages two to five watch TV about 25 hours weekly; six­to 11-year-olds, more than 22 hours weekly; and 1.2-to 17­year-olds, 23 hours per week, said the policy statement. 
"We're asking that parents cut their kids' television viewing in half or more," said Dr. Vic­tor Strasburger of the Univer­sity of New Mexico School of Medicine. He added that the academy did not recommend a time limit five years ago. 
Experts have established a link between heavy television viewing and obesity, he said. The policy statement credits a 1985 study by Drs. W.H. Dietz and S.L. Gortmaker that ap­peared in the .Journal of Pedi­atrics. 
Dietz, a member of the academy committee that pre­pared the policy statement, has done followup research, Stras­burger said. 
"It could be that television watching is such a sedentary activity," he said in a telephone interview Monday. "It could be because the nutritional mes­sages on television are so terri­ble. Or it could be that kids usually ... eat while they're watching television .... It prob­ably is all three." 
He said TV still offers "a steady diet of violence," causing some children to believe "that if you're the good guy, violence can be acceptable" to solve some problems. 
The policy statement also calls for contraceptive advertis­ing and for responsible por­trayals of sex. 
Strasburger said "no na­tional networks have been brave enough ... or public-spir­ited enough" to advertise con­traceptives. 
©19901'ir&T 

IMPROVE YOUR 



COMMUNICATION SKILLS. 

An AJ'&Jcard helps you communicate better, because you can use it to call from all kinds ofplaces. like a friend's, or apayphone, or out on the road. You don't even need to have aphone in your name to get one. And every monthyou get an itemized bill stating where and when you used the carci. 
To apply for the AI'&rcard, call us at ......._... 
1800 525-=7955, Ext. 630. HIall 
Now, ifonly it were that easyto improve The right choice. your grade point average. 
page 9 

AP Photo 

Problems forming a new coalition 
Israel's Labor party leader in the parliament yesterday morning as he requested that a vote of no confidence on his new government be postponed. The vote was postponed until a later time. 
Saudi Arabia frees 7000 prisoners 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) 
-The government said Monday 
it had freed nearly 7,700 
inmates, including all political 
prisoners, as a goodwill ges­
ture marking the holy month of 
Ramadan. 

There is "not a single political prisoner" in the kingdom, according to an Interior Min­istry announcement broadcast by state-run Hiyadh radio, be­cause King Fahd had deelan~d amnesty for 7,681 prisoners. 
The gesture was made possi­ble by benefactors who donated about $87 million to help pay the public and private debts of some prisoners, the ministry said. 
In a report on Saudi Arabia issued in .January, the London­based human rights group Amnesty International said more than 700 people were de­tained without trial from 1983 to 1989, mainly Shiite Moslems, including Iranian-backed fun­damentalists. 
The report said at least 100 people were seized last year and named 66 held in three prisons. 
Saudi Arabia denied the re­port. Monday's announcement did not specifically refer to the Shiites. 
Those still jailed were being held for capital crimes or were convicted and awaiting sentHnc­ing. 
Capital crimes under Islamic law include murdnr, punishable by bnheading; adultery, punish­able by stoning; and thievery, punishable by cutting of hands from the wrist. In recent years, beheading was also decreed by Moslem theologians for drug smuggling. 
The amnesty included Saudis and foreigners, but no break­down was released. It referred to an unspecified number of foreigners detained for various misdemeanors, financial crimes and public law violations. It said their embassies were asked to prepa're for their de­portation, as is customary. 
Neighboring Gulf countries have already announced their amnesties for Ramadan, but they have not exceeded 200 prisoners. 
-~-----~-~­
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, April 17, 1990 
Merchants strike in protest over Chinatown freeway 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -De­spite a merchants' strike that shut down the city's famed Chi­natown, the Board of Supervi­sors voted Monday to tear down a quake-damaged free­way the merchants consider a vital link to their community. 
Almost 1,200 shops, restau­rants and professional offices -all but five small businesses -signed up to take part in the three-hour shutdown, said protest organizer Rose Pak of the Chinese Chamber of Com­merce. 
Many of the business people attended the meeting at which the supervisors considered a proposal by Mayor Art Agnos to consider replacing the ele­vated Embarcadero Freeway with either a surface or under­ground road. 
The board voted 6-5 to accept Agnos' proposal. The state De­partment of Transportation previously agreed to abide by the supervisors' vote on the state-owned freeway. 
Supervisor Angela Alioto said the vote means the freeway that runs along the waterfront will have to be torn down, but Pak vowed to continue the fight and hold state officials to a plan to repair the road. 
The strike began at 1:30 p.m. and Chinatown came to a grinding halt. Most stores closed, with shopkeepers taking their goods off the sidewalks. 
The usual shoulder-to-shoul­der pedestrian traffic in the heart of Chinatown went away. The noise of car horns was re­placed by the sound of chimes blowing in the breeze. 
"We just got in to Chinatown and already got kicked out of two shops," said Michael Kiri­azis, a businessman from Port­land, Ore., just as the strike be­gan. 
Hundreds of Chinatown busi­ness people and residents climbed aboard buses that shuttled them to City Hall. 
GETA 


REAL JOB! 
The Passionist Lay Missions Program offers a variety of ministry opportunities designed to bring the missioner closer to the realities of the struggle of the poor in inner-city Chicago and Detroit. For a copy of our "job lists" for August 1990-August 1991 , please complete and mail attached coupon. 
passionist lay missioners 
Please send me your jobs list for 1990-1991 and more info. about the program. 
Ndme ________________ Adrureu._______________ 
Cty/State ------------
Dp _________________l 
5700 North Harlem Avenue 
Chicago. IL 60631 
312-631~ 



It has stood empty since a 7.1-magnitude earthquake shook northern California six months ago, killing 68 people, cracking concrete columns supporting the waterfront roadway. 
Agnos recently proposed tearing down the elevated free­way, long considered an eyesore as well as an' easy entrance for drivers into Chinatown and the restaurants of North Beach and tourist attractions at Fish­erman's Wharf. In its place, the mayor suggested building an underground road that he be­lieves would be safer from earthquakes and more aesthet­ically pleasing. 
But Pak and others such as Supervisor Tom Hsieh contend repairing the existing freeway would be better because it would get business traffic back into the economically depressed Chinatown area sooner and cheaper.
Temko argued for a buried freeway, and said San Fran­cisco could once again be the "beau ideal of a civilized Amer­ican metropolis, as it was be­fore the freeway transformed one of the loveliest waterfronts in the world into one of the 
AP Photo 
Trying to instill discipline 
An army recruit got some close-range advice from his group leader as new soldiers trained on a street in the Haidian district of Beijing, China last Thursday. 

Viewpoint 
page 11
Tuesday, April 17, 1990 
Ihe ObserYer___ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bualn... Manager John O'Brian Kathleen O'Connor 
Newa Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advert Iaing Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sport• Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Syatema Mgr .... Bemard Brennlnkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Balley OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chrla Anderson Art Dlractor ... . . ...... Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminlstnation of either institution. The news Is reported 115 accurately and objec~vely 115 possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Sam! Mary's Editor. Commentaries, loners and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression or varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS 


Pro-choicers' caricature of pro-lifers is misleading 
, 1 
, 
Dear h'dilor:  complicating moral factors do  personal choice"  (though  not  corns "truth." Sierra and Eck­ will repeating it endlessly raise  
In their article "Pro-choicers  enter the "special"  cases  but  exactly with  the  problematic  ert claim "The pro-life  move­ it to that status. That question  
arc not pro-abortion" (The Ob­ not the general. Is this so obvi­ way in which they understand  ment claims to have monopoly  is perhaps central only if abor­ 
server, April 5), Alicia Sierra  ously contradictory? One per­ it). The reason I disagree with  on  truth.  The  pro-choice  tion is not a  moral issue--like  
and Amy Eckert pose  a  chal­ son's death, when caused by  their  (related)  claim,  the  movement denies the existence  e.g. one's taste in coffee. Unless  
lenge for  pro-lifers; they also  another, is considered murder  "Women must be able to decide  of any such truth." My impres­ and until such a time as this  is  
perpetuate a seriously mislead­ under  certain  conditions,  for themselves if and when an  sion of their claim: Since we all  shown I see no convincing rea­ 
ing pro-choice  caricature  of  manslaughter  under  others,  abortion is a moral option," is  know that truth is not an easy  son to accord it such powerful  
pro-lifers as decision imposing,  and accidental or even as self­ that the  morality of abortion  thing to get a purchase on, how  status in the abortion contro­ 
women-suppressing, dogmatic  defense  in  still  others.  The  (or of any action) is not a mat­ insensitive and domineering are  versy--to do so would be to im­ 
individuals.  As  a  pro-lifer,  I  point of this analogy is to sug­ ter  of choice;  though  to  be  the  pro-lifers;  how  sensitive  properly conflate the morality  
want to respond to the former, positive challenge as well as  gest that different considera­tions often and quite rightly en­ moral is. Sierra, Eckert and many other pro-choice advo­ and understanding are the pro­choicers--shouldn't we there­ of an action with the choice to be moral.  1 I  
address  the  latter, seriously  ter into the attribution and de­ cates  appear  to  be  implicitly  fore side with the latter? And  Sierra  and  Eckert  raise  a  
misleading fiction. Sierra and Eckert argue the  gree of moral (and legal) re­sponsibility accorded certain  but pervasively conflating these two distinct issues.  my response: How unfounded in fact is the distinction between  point pro-lifers should not ig­nore--a bit of fresh air in this  ~  
following: The pro-lifer's will­ actions and their results. So at  Moreover,  it  is  precisely  the two views here portrayed. I  otherwise stale debate. Unfor­ 
ingness  to  allow  abortion  in  least a consistent case can  be  because individuals  are  moral  myself deny any such monopoly  tunately they also perpetuate  
"spedal" cases like rape, incest and physical threat to the woman. but not more generally, makes "the morality of abor­ made for permitting abortion in the "special" but not the gen­eral cases. I can only sympathize with the  agents and are capable of abiding by such laws that we are (partly) justified in holding them responsible for violating  on the truth--1 take the stand I do on a very sensitive and com­plex issue with the full aware­ness that I am possibly mis­ the seriously misleading carica­ture that we are decision-im­posing, women-suppressing, dogmatic individuals--what  !  
tion conditional on the circum­ woman  who  must  decide  to  such laws. Do  we  devalue  as  taken.  sane  person  wants  to  be this  
stances  of  the  pregnancy"  abort the fetus for the sake of  moral agents any and everyone  Lack  of  guarantees  about  kind of person? I hope this ploy  
rather  than  based  on  the  her life, or sacrifice her life for  capable of e.g. rape and incest  significant issues is for better  can  be seen  for what it really  
'"universal truth' that abortion  the sake of the fetus; for me,  because laws prohibiting such  or  worse  part of the  human  is--nonsense;  I further  hopt~  
is  murder." In  response.  two  the  same  holds  for  cases  of  actions  are  enacted  and  situation. I take a stand on this  that, in future discussion, pro­ 
points should be noted. One is  rape and incest, though  to  a  enforced? Of course not. Or, if  important  issue  nonetheless.  choice  advocates  will  desist  
the fact that politics is largl;)ly  lesser degree.  Grounds other  so--if  the  enactment  and  But the pro-choice people also  from such nonsense as a means  
an arena of compromise. Thus,  than  that  we  are  willing  to  enforcement  of  laws  per  se  take  a  strong moral stand  on  of argument. Imposing moral  
pro-lifers who adhere to the so­ permit  abortion  in  certain  constitutes  "imposing  moral  the  very  same  issue--they  decision is not the same as tak­ 
called  "universal  truth"  can  cases  but not others  must  be  decisions on others" --then pro­ remain neither neutral about  ing a moral stand and/or hold­ 
consistently respond that minus  adduced  before  the  pro-life  choicers  no less than pro-lifers  the  issue  nor  agnostic about  ing individuals responsible for  
some  compromise  (e.g.  the  position  can  be  considered  are guilty of it.  the  truth  as  they  see  it.  To  their moral decisions. I, as well  
"special" cases),  a  more  gen­ contradictory with any degree  Since pro-choicers deny they  suggest otherwise is dishonest;  as  other  pro-lifers (and  pro­ 
eral prohibition simply is  not  of justification.  are so guilty, yet do attempt to  to  accuse  the other side with  choicers!), favor the latter but  
forthcoming. This hardly seems  Now  for  the  other  part of  enact and have enforced certain  intolerance  is  even  more  not  the  former.  So  pro-lifers  
a contradictory position given  Sierra and  Eckert's article.  I  laws, by parity  of reasoning  dishonest.  aren't for imposing moral deci­ 
that our goal is to reduce the  address it because it perpetu­ neither  can  they charge pro­ This brings me to my second  sions on women. We also value  
number  of abortions  in  this  ates  a  fairly  common  carica­ lifers  with  imposing  moral  point.  Pro-choice  advocates  women  as  moral agents.  Pro­ 
country; it is rather the clear  ture of pro-lifers that simply is  decision on women. And if the  make "choice" the preeminent  lifers are "pro-choice" and pro­ 
perception  that  consensus  on  false.  It  is  that  we  impose  imposition of moral decisions is  and determinative value to be  women. We are, however, anti­ 
matters of moral significance  moral decisions on women and  what devalues women. as Sierra  lauded  in  this  struggle.  But  abortion. This stand represents  
cannot always be had; that one  (thereby)  devalue  them  as  and Eckert suggest, and pro­ what cogent reasons have been  the only morally significant dis­ 
must  do  the  best  one  can  in  moral agents--both claims are  lifers impose them. then pro­ offered for taking "choice"  as  tinction  between  pro-life and  
such situations given our politi­ rubbish.  lifers don't devalue women. (We  the  determinative  value  by  pro-choice advocates.  
cal and legal system.  Sierra and Eckert claim that  don't devalue women anyway.)  which to decide this tragic is­ 
Another is that, for pro-lifers  "women must be able to make  We believe only that abortion  sue? "Who decides?" is not ob­ Mark Webb  
like myself who are reluctant to  their own personal, moral deci­ should be prohibited.  viously the central question in  Graduate Student  
take a pro-life stand on the ba­ sions and that any woman who  Two final points.  One  con- the abortion controversy;  nor  Apri/9, 1990  
sis of the "universal truth," it  is denied the right make this  
seems open for use to concedfi  choice is indeed oppressed and  Have something  to  say? The Viewpoint page depends  on  
that. in fact. the "universal truth" is not a universal truth-­but this is just to admit that  powerless." Well, I agree! I also agree that "the abortion issue is a matter of individual and  commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

Mti<E, JU5T BeCAuse ZONK&R.'S
M/1<&?... 
W5T HIS MJNO fl05N7MlfAN 'rWMIAT HAVe 7D llJS/3 '!WRS.' 6M3 YWR-THtR£'5 50M& H6Yl
TIM&/'3 
17~ 5etFA 8REAK,UJ!WA ~ YW ?RUTH 7D /IH)/DTHAve. TH& M05T OYE&UROf.JGHT 7HAT. 
TH~N/6HT

\ OlVSCICNCO IN AWiRICA t 
U6HT­
I 

I CN! 
'Find something worth dying for, then live fervently for it." 
Anonymous 

Viewpoint
page 12 Tuesday, April 17, 1990 

Aversion to pro-abortion label reflects ambivalence 
By Kevin Smant 
An old refrain has reared its ugly head again--one that al­ways pops its face out of the swirls of the abortion contro­versy. It is an attempt to wrig­gle out of the moral and ethical questions that abortion poses; since the position it reflects is so untenable, I suppose it's not surprising that its advocates use it. Anyway, the refrain is: "To be pro-choice is not to be pro-abortion." It's time, r think. to give this cliche a little closer scrutiny. 
The issue isn't about abor­tion, say many of the so-called "pro-choiee" advocates. Rather, since the "theological" question of the status of the fetus has not and cannot be decided, lawmakers should not impose "their values" on the female de­cision-maker. Pro-choicers are neither pro-nor anti-abortion, they claim; the only thing they care about is that the proce­dure for making the decision be entirely "individual." 
How ingenious. And yet how fundamentally misleading and morally anarchistic. For the fact is that much of the pro­choice crowd, perhaps a major­ity of them (although one can't be sure, due to the Cuomoistic ''I'm personally opposed but..." position), takes a stand on the issue of the status of the fetus. To them, it is nothing more that a piece of tissue, a lump of protoplasm, a blob of cells. Removing it from a woman's body has all the significance of the excision of a benign tumor. 
This position is reflected in their attitude towards the ac­tual performance of abortions. They resist any restrictions upon it, even the relatively mi­nor proposal of requiring parental consent for abortions administered to women under the age of eighteen. They establish and fund abortion clinics and actively promote abortion as an alternative to pregnancy. They publicly ex­press no sorrow at the fact the number of abortions performed yeatly now extends into the 
millions. 
One must ask, then, why such advocates run from the term of being "pro-abortion." The fetus is not human, they say; remov­ing it has all the moral portents of popping a pimple. Many of them (though perhaps not all) aid, abet and encourage its practice. Yet they insist they in­sist that this is not "advocating" abortion. Why? 
It could be that some of the facts of this issue--not the ideo­logical abstractions--prick at the pro-abortion conscience. Medical research shows that, at nine weeks, the fetus has all of the genetic characteristics of a nine-year old child. Medical ad­vances now indicate that it is at least possible for even only a four or five month old prema­turely born fetus to be viable. And is it really logical to con­sider a fetus of any age as be­ing, in essence, a nonentity? 
Normally arguments in poli­tics over semantics, labels and titles only bog us down and ob­scure the real issues. But this time a label assumes real im­portance. Pro-abortionists' re­sistance to the title which best explains the objeetive results of their position reflects their own ambivalence, I think, with that position. Could it be that ''I'm not pro-abortion!" really means "I'm 'pro-choice' but not at all comfortable with abortion?" If so, then these owe it to them­selves to carefully examine why this feeling exists; they must stop shouting and start think­ing. 
Meanwhile, anti-abortion ad­vocates must not worry about the charge of "imposing their values" on others. After all, it was Abraham Lincoln who "imposed his values" on South­ern slave owners. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in the history depart­ment. 
LETTERS 
'Pro-choicers' should accept full implications of their title 
Dear Editor: "pro-choice." They accept their abortion carnage of 1.6 million value us all as moral agents. "pre-natal and post-natal care, 
Why are so-called "pro­signification as being for capi­babies per year is certainly a Our society has simply decided paid parental leave and child choice" forces so reluctant to tal punishment. Whether their desperate situation) to get that there are some rights, care," but these are not merely accept their more accurate position is right or wrong, at some type of legislation passed some general moral truths-­elements of so-called "true-re­designation as "pro-abortion?" least they have the integrity to the protection of which is more productive freedom," they are 
They will answer that they do accept their aecurate title and important than a specific indi-inherent to any truly pro-life not want every woman to have its implications. vidual's "right to choose." I (and not merely anti-abortion) an abortion, but do want every Yet as Hamlet says, all of this personally am grateful that our position, which is the one I woman to have a choice. They is "words, words, words." The legal system places my right to urge. try to avoid the real issue-­crucial deception of the pro­live over someone else's right to The pro-life movement docs abortion--by calling themselves abortion argument is revealed not "elaim to have a monopoly "pro-choice." They attempt to in the remainder of the April 5 he/she would prefer my death--­on truth," but it does recognize distance themselves from all letter from Alicia Sierra and or as Sierra and Eckert assert the same truths proclaimed in the overwhelmingly negative Amy Eckert. They point to the "to draw her [or his! own ethi­documents as fundamental to associations that the word Idaho bill drafted by the cal lines." our country as the Declaration "abortion" evokes--subcon­National Right to Life, which I fully agree with Sierra and of Independence: "We hold sciously denying, even to them­prohibits abortion except in Eckert when they claim: these truths to be self-evident, selves, their defense of the right some cases of rape, incest, se­"Traditionally. the Left sup­that all men are created equal, to kill babies. vere fetal deformity and threat ports the rights of the power­that they are endowed by their 
Comparing this debate to the to the mother, and attempt to less." This laudable history, Creator with certain unalien­one over capital punishment re­label the pro-life movement as however, is completely com­able rights. that among these veals the sophistry of the inconsistent: "Certainly, these promised and tainted by much are life, liberty and the pursuit "we're not pro-abortion, we're guidelines do not adhere to the of the Left's support of abor­of happiness." Notice the pref­pro-choice" position. When a 'universal truth' that abortion 0 personally think the erential ordering of these fun­person says he/she is for is murder." I must agree. children. The exceptions are, at Left-based "Feminists for Life" damental rights: life comes "capital punishment" or "pro­Yet their claim that these least partially, a political move perspective is the most consis-first. death penalty," this person is concessions "place the existence and one sensitive to social tent and humane position in not saying that he/she wants of any such truth into serious abhorrence of rape and incest, this whole debate.) It is obvi-Maria Rhomberg every individual found guilty of doubt" is simply false. The as well as the reality that a bill ous, yes obvious, that in any Vice President a serious crime to be executed. most consistent position would not made into law benefits no real appraisal of the ND/SMC Right to Life Most supporters of capital have been to forbid all one. The veto of the bill, even in mother/unborn child relation, April 9, 1990 punishment will claim that abortions except in the case of its modified form, the name "powerless" must be what they want is an option for threat to the mother's life, but demonstrates the validity of reserved, primarily if not com-Have something to the death penalty to be used ei­the intent of the bill is obvious: their reservations. pletely, for the unborn child. 
say? The Viewpoint
ther in specific types of cases to save the lives of unborn chil­Pro-life laws against abortion The Left's support of abortion 
page depends on
or at the discretion of a judge. dren. do not devalue the "woman as is a tragedy to their tradition. 
Yet these supporters do not This bill can be understood as moral agent" any more than Sierra and Eckert rightly commentaries from call themselves "pro-option" or a desperate attempt (and the Jaws against theft and rape de-point to the importance of its readers. 

Human children are 'babies' before and after they're born 
Dear Editor: tor Bruce Morton, which criti­they would have aggravated "baby" and the word "child" to hies are rational, loving beings?Until just recently, local radio cized abortion opponents for Griffin. refer to what is being aborted. Perhaps if he had fathered and stations had been playing over using the word "baby" instead Would the kindly old Griff "Babies the size and age of the helped care for six as I have, he and over again a public service of "fetus." Morton, apparently growl at the woman who said ones seen on local billboards would realize that a new-born announcement that came to much like Griffin, thought such to her husband, "Put your hand are not being aborted," she infant, shorn of its potential haunt me. A young woman, the use tried to seize an unfair on my tummy, honey, and you wrote. The "babies" I have seen and regarded as only what can mother of a premature baby. emotional advantage and can feel the baby kicking"? on local billboards are fetuses be seen, is not very impressivespoke plaintively to other young amounted to begging the issue. Would the good father admon­eight weeks old. And again, "It at all, somewhat like that tissue women to encourage good pre­Ever since then I have listened ish the mother who said, "I is a rare woman who would in the Whitman Sampler box 
natal care. She concluded with carefully to our language and gained 15 pounds when I was abort a child in the context of a that Griffin was afraid to look the plea, "If you are pregnant, have been impressed with how pregnant with Suzy" that she loving mutually supportive rela­at. Indeed, the day-old calves your baby needs your help universal the use of the word should say, "I gained 15 pounds tionship against the wishes of that have frolicked in our 
now." "baby" or "child" is to refer to when I was pregnant with the the father." pasture would have appeared 
It was a moving appeal, in what the pregnant woman car­thing that was in the process of It amazed me that Stecker more impressive, and more plain language; and, as far as I ries in her womb --with one becoming Suzy"? What sort of would say these things. Perhaps capable, and more precious know, it generated no contro­exception and that is when the pastor would Griffin be if he it is impossible to suppress and more lovable than my day­
versy. But yet how telling it subject is abortion, and then consoled a couple who suffered completely what deep in our old infants, had not my mind was. The woman did not say, only when people do not let a miscarriage with the words "I hearts we all (with the possible been enlightened by the "Your embryo needs your help down their guard. am sorry you lost your what­exception of Griffin) know so perception of the wonder which 
now," or "Your own body, I began to accumulate the ex­ever it was"? Would Griffin well. lay hidden within, a perceptionwhich you have a constitutional amples: A blurb I got from paste the phrase "who knows I wonder just how Griffin whieh the human race univer­right to control, needs your Psychology Today touted an ar­what" over the word "baby" would define the word "baby" sally experiences and expresses
help now." But if the statement ticle explaining "how much above the arrow on those shirts and how he would impose his in everyday language.that "if you're pregnant, your your baby learns while still in pregnant women wear pointing definition on a living language After all, the Gospel, at least baby needs your help now," was the womb." An Indiana State to their protruding abdomen? that reflects the apparently in its literary wisdom if not universally understandable and Health official declared that And what reprimand would universal perception that the also in its theological wisdom, 
socially acceptable, why would "every child, born or unborn, Griffin reserve for the most creature in the womb does not says that Mary was "with people like Father Robert has a right to good health prominent local spokesperson change its essence when it is child," not that Mary "was with Griffin take such exception to care." An ad by the American for abortion rights, Dr. Ellen born. evolving life, about which I can the similar statement: "If you Cancer Society featured a pic­Stecker, (for whose arguments Indeed, I wonder what Griffin not tell you much." are pregnant and you have an ture of a pregnant woman Griffin has expressed admira­thinks a baby is. Perhaps he abortion, your baby is killed"? smoking a cigarette with the tion in the past) who in an es­has adopted too many puppies James Rakowski Several years ago, I listened words "the ultimate child 
say published in The South which are already alert and Associate Professor on the car radio to a abuse." None of these seemed Bend Tribune in January of lively and stare at him with Economics Department
Newsnotes piece by commenta-controversial, and I wonder if 1989 used both the word doleful eyes. Does he think ba-April 8, 1990 



Accent 
Tuesday, April17, 1990 page 13 


FREEDOM 
Thanks to glasnost and perestroika, changes in the Soviet Union aren't only in the government 
ALISON COCKS 
editor-in-ch1ef 

T 
lw tinu•s. tlwy arP a­changin'. 
hH' Moscow State 
UniVPrsity\ VirP HPktor, 
Vladimir DobrPnkov. his 
wifP :'IJadia. and tlw 

studPnts lw tPadws. the changPs in Hussia arP a positivn step for Hussian higlwr Pdumtion. 
Tlw rww fn•pdom ylasnost and fWN'slroika haw aiTordPd Hussian citiZPIIS has h•·nn n·cPiwd with Pnthusiasm by tlw Moscow StatP Uniwrsity community. Studnnts rnwl in thP right to PXprPSS tlH'IliSP)VPS fnwly and a numiH'r of difl'PrPnt political groups-not all or whi!'h agnw with tho curTPnt govnrnnwnt-havn dnvnlopnd on campus. 
Coursns on tlw history of tlw Communist Party haw giVPn way to offPrings such as "Tiw Social and Political llistory of thP 20th CPntury." SltHIPnts slill fan• manv coursl' n•quin•mPnts, but objn(·tivity is now valuml. NPw tPxts and courses will prn­sPnt not only tlw Marxist and Lnninist points of viPW, hut t hosP of WPstnrn scholars. allowing studPnts to compare diiTPrPnt approadws and dPddn thnir ViPW~ for thPIIISP)V('S. 
J>ohn·nkov hirnsPif. whosP rP­sponsihilitins as vicP n•ktor indudP rPSParrh. studiPs of tlw humanitins, and ovPI'SPPing tlw univPrsity lihrarins is an Plrthusiastir and instrunu•ntal partic­ipant in bringing thPsP changPs about at \1oscow Stat«' Uniwrsitv. Otlwr conHHitliiPIItS incJUdP ((:aching history and sociolog~·. nwmlH•rship in tlw ln­tPrnational Sociological and Philosophical CongrPss. and tlw vicn­prPsidPrrry of thP LISSB-LJSA l;riPndship SoriPty. and rPilP•·t a dPsirP to knPp pan• with his changing world and to hrin~t Bussia's !H'\\'(•r. mon• n•cPptiw outlook to tlu• classroom. 
"1-'«11· our profPssors it is difficult to adapt quickly,'' admittPd l>olm~nkov. StuldPnly tlwy arP n~quirPCI to prnsnnt viPws in tlw rlassroom tlwy wnrP not pPrmittPd to study as undPrgraduatns. 
l·:ntlwsiasm abounds and rlassroom approadws haVP broadPnPd already. hmvPwr. AssistPd by information hP has gatlwrPd from brid visits to tho Esa!Pn lnstitutP at Big Sur, tlw Univnrsity of Pittsburgh, thn UnivNsity of Wisconsin, and Ihr kn LJ nivnrsity. as wPII as Notre DamP, I>obn~nkov hopPs to continue to reshape his university's curriculum to furtlwr fadlitatP an introduction of new ideas. 

The university's faeulty will also lw per·mittnd to "rewrite Soviet history," in the form of a new tnxtbook. which will give tlwm a chancP to pwsnnt tlw country's history from a hroadPr perspertiVP. 
"This is a rPally good opportunity to to have morP obj•~rtiVP msearrh about our history," said I>olm~nkov. 
The student prPss has been pPrmittml to bP very rritieal of the governnu•nt. Moscow State Univnrsity's rwwspaper gives studnnts plenty of opportunity to express uncnnsornd thoughts. Tlwy can also purchase newspapers from otlwr countries. USA Today is availabiP on a daily basis. 
The addition of a Wnstnrn perspective to the univnrsity has not only all'erted intellectual life. Students are interested in popular culture from other countries and are familiar with American tilms and music. For tlw 12,000 studPnts residing in Mos•~ow State Univmsity's dormitories, them is ample space and opportunity to dance, drink and socialize. The two studPnt bodies arc "the samP. Absolutely," said Dobn~nkov. Above all, Moseow StatP Uniwrsity students arP no longer afraid to lw active. 
"It snmns to nw that it is now more important to have coop•~ration between our univNsities," lw emphasized. 
Tlwn~ an~ currently 50 Anu•rican students at Moscow StatP Uniwrsity, a number Dobn~nkov would like to incrnasn to 400-500, with Notn• Dame students among tlw number. 
"It is important for young pnop!P to meet and come to a mutual understanding of each ot.lwr and form cooperative friPndships." h•~ noted. 
DobrPnkov dons not viPw all aspPcts of WnstPJ"n inlluencn as positiv•'. howcvnr. ThrnP trips to tlw bookstore to view the snlnction of t•~xtbooks rPvealPd morn than titles. Unlikn Moscow State University studnnts. who can ch•~r.k texts out of the library for a tNm in­stead or buying them for two or thrcn rubles. Dobrnnkov learrwd that all Notn~ Damn stud•~nts acquire tnxts through the bookstore. While purchas­ing books is a rarn or.currencn in Moscow, at Notre Damn it is not only usual, but, as Dobrnnkov observed,"very expnnsive." 
Mexico City, the best bet for Mexican experience 
For owr 20 yPars, tlw tourism industry has played an important rolo in tlw Mexican Pconomy. MPxico has sonw of thP most lwautiful bParlws in tlw world. and millions of visi­tors takP advantagP of Mexico's tourist locales nwry ynar. 
Wlwn pnopln think about taking a vacation in Mnxico, thny usually think about lxtapa, Canntn and (obviously) Aca­pulro. Whi!P tlrns«' hnaclws of'­fpr an PrHIIPss varil~ty of food and PnlPrtainnwnt options, thP rPsort arnas of Mnxiro oll'nr v•~ry little of the nml Mexico. 
Although it is snvnntl hours from a bnach, Mnxko City rn­ePivns a lot of tourists. and tlw Zona Hosa is the most popular hangout for foreigners and MPxieans alikn. I>nspitn the largo amount of tourists in MPxieo City. this sprawling city of' approximat11ly 20 million in­habitants is still the b11st place to go if you want to truly nxpe­rinnen MPxico. 
Obviously, if you deeide to spend all of your time in the Zona Hosa, you will only get to sen tho major hotels and restaurants, which includns McDonald's, Denny's, and Pizza llut. (lneidPntally, Mexican pizza doesn't quite comparn to American pizza. espnr.ially for thosn of us from the Chicagoland arna. but the Pizza llut pizza in Mnxieo is just as grnasy as the Pizza Hut cuisine back home.) 
Outside of the Zona Hosa, Mnxieo City is a microcosm of the Mexican people. Thnrn are snr.tions of extremn povnrty contrasted by amazingly wealthy neighborhoods. While most pnopln could get by in tho Zona Hosa using a minimal amount of Spanish, the non­Spanish spnaking traveler might have a considerabln amount of difliculty communi­cating in thn middle-class neighborhood where I live. 
In the rnsort areas such as Acapulco and lxtapa. the situa­tion is rnvnrsed. Most people spend their vacations at the Mexican beach resorts without 

Robyn Simmons 
Accent Writer 
spnaking a word of Spanish, because thn Mnxir.ans who work at thnse rnsorts all speak English (and sometimes a few other languages as well). This is unfortunatn beeausc it makes the resort areas seem less Mex­ican. Speaking Spanish is thn bnst way to immerse yourself in the Mexican eulturn, and thosn people who don't try to speak the language are definitely missing out on a valuable cul­tural experience. 
When I wont to Acapulco sev­eral weeks ago, the amount of English used by the Mexicans there and the great quantity of American stores gavp, me a m­vcrsc cultun1 shock. I hadn't seen so much English since I flew out of O'llare Airport in January. We ran into several Amp,ricans therP (a few of thnm wern stereotypieally "ugly") and I was amazed at how diffP-rnnt the atmosphere was in Aca­pulco as eomparnd to Mexico City. 
As popular as Acapuleo is, a lot of people don't like it be­cause it is too touristy. Thn beach is linnd with luxury ho­tels and the nightlife in Aca­puleo exceeds all of the other cities in Mexico, including Mex­ico City. I have to admit that I had a grnat time in Acapulco, but for a tranquil vacation, Acapulco is delinitnly a place to avoid. 
Ixtapa is not quite as estab­lished as Acapulco, but it's get­ting there. Alnmdy the coast of lxtapa is lined with luxury ho­tels and expensive boutiques (where, unfortunately, you can't bargain to get the price down). Hight next door to Ixtapa is the small fishing villagn of Zihu Atanejo. which is prderable to lxtapa bn•~ause then• are less pnopln. lnss buildings, and the accommodations arn cheap-which is w~ry important for travelers living on a student's budgnt. 
The only big-name beach rn­sort wn haven't visitnd yot is Cancun. in tlw Yucatan penin­sula. but it's our nnxt stop. Caneun is supposed to bP somnwhen• in bntwenn lxtapa and Acapuleo as far as "touristy-ness" is concerned. During the 1970s, both Ixtapa and Cancun w1~rn chosen by the computer of Mexico's Tourist ministry to bncomn nnw luxury resorts to accommodate the ovnrllow of tourists coming to Acapulco. 
For those pnople who lovn sun, sand, surf, as wnll as an exciting nightlife. Acapulco. lx­
-
tapa, and Cancun arn the thren hottest spots in Mexico. But for those who want to sen what Mexico is really like, be sure to swing by Mexico City. 
r-~----------------------------~----~­
i I 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 17, 1990 
B.C. Lions of CFL express interest in QB Major Harris 
VANCOUVER. British Columbia {AP) -The British Columbia Lions of the Canadian Football League liked what they saw in a workout by Major Harris and said they will pursue the former West Virginia quarterback. 
Harris flew home Sunday after a 45-minute workout Saturday with the CFL team. The Lions must wait until after the NFL draft next Sunday to see whether they have a realis­tic shot at signing him. 
"He's a prototypical profes­sional quarterback, whether it's in the CFL, NFL or any league," coach Lary Kuharich said. "He certainly has a strong, strong arm and a bonus of escapability. When he does run, he's like a big running back at 220 pounds plus." 
Harris, 22, announced earlier this year he will forgo his se­nior year at West Virginia. He is eligible for the NFL draft although some scouts predict he will be no higher than a middle-round pick because of his lack of height and some­times erratic arm. 
The higher he goes, the less chance the Lions will have at matching the money offered by the NFL team that picks him. 
Kuharich said the Lions will continue to pursue Harris this week. 


"There will certainly be dis­cussions but realistically there's less than one calendar week until the NFL draft and I'm sure Major and his repre­sentatives want to see where they fall in that draft," the coach said. 
The 6-foot-1, 220-pound Harris said he was impressed with Vancouver. 
"I just came up here to feel things out, to meet the coaches and some players, to see what type of offense they run, to see where I would fit in and stuff like that," Harris said Sunday. "It felt good. " 
The Lions rolled out the red carpet for Harris, his fiance and business representatives. They picked them up at the air­port Friday in a white Rolls­Royce and took them sightsee­ing by boat Saturday. They also managed to squeeze in a tour of B.C. Place Stadium. 
Harris led West Virginia to a 25-10-1 record as starting 

AP Photo 
quarterback. The Mountaineers 

Jay Bell of the Pittsburgh Pirates throws the ball toward first base
played in bowl games each of 

The Pirates lost 6-4 to the St. Louis Cardinals yesterday and ar~
his three years but lost each 

now one game out of first place. 
time. 

College juniors may be sorry for jumping to NFL 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) Many of the college juniors who have entered this year's NFL draft may be disappointed with the outcome and their agents will have to answer, the presi­dent and general manager of the Kansas City Chiefs said Monday. 
Of 32 juniors entering the draft, which will be held early next week, only 12 are "draftable" and not many of those may be taken early on, said Carl Peterson to sports writers attending a workshop hosted by the Great Plains Region of the Associated Press Sports Editors. 
There are many good seniors in this year's draft, Peterson said, and many of the juniors who elected to enter the draft are doing so on the basis of "poor advice" from agents. 
Peterson said he opposed al­lowing college players to enter the NFL before completing their eligibility and blamed the agents for the growth in the number who are doing so. 
"It's being driven strictly by player agents looking for more money for themselves," Peterson said. He cautioned that "the money they thought will be there" may not. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day lrom 10 a.m. lo 3:30p.m. al the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
Corner of NO ave and Howard 
233-2342 
STUDENTS! Do you dread putting your resume together? This is the easiest resume you'll ever do. Just send $10 today for Resume's Made Easy! P.O. Box 40164, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46804 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Black Students Only! Earn $5 for 40 minutes of your time, by filling out some simple questionnaires for a research study on Ethnic Identity! Come to room 128 
Haggar Hall, 7 pm Wednesday April18! 

Buy any 12" Italian sub with one litre soft drink 
and 
•
recetve 


$1.00oFF 

FREE:' 

IEI.l.IVERY!

-
coupon expires 
4-20-90 

Earth Week April 16-20 
Tuesday Events Debate @ Theodore's 7:30pm Movie: "Never Cry Wolf" Montgomery Theatre 9pm 1990 EARTH DAY APRIL 22 
We can change the world. 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: At the Senior Formal, my 
date lost his Notre Dame 
monogram ring. If you found a 
men's ring anywhere, please call 
Kristen at #2670. The ring is very 
valuable. 
FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan 
Courts on Thursday 
4/5. Keys are held together 
by a piece of string. Call 
Pat at x1560 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko 
dress watch on the second 
floor of the library. Please 
call Pat x2479 or give to 
library security at the front 
desk. 
LOST--A black briefcase by American Tourister. No contents, lost in the lobby of Hurley Business Hall monday night, 4/2/90. My only bag, gilt from mom. Please call Ted at x3276. No questions. 
I lost my Canon CAMERA at the 
Senior Formal dance. Please call 
Kay at 277-8813 if you found one. 
LOST: If you or your date picked up the wrong camera at SENIOR FORMAL by accident on SAT. night, please call #1765. It's really important! If the film you develop is not yours, please call! 
SENIOR FORMAL: Are those pictures you developed not yours? Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #1765. THANKS 
LOST: Blue NO wallet w/my entire 
life in it-Sat. night in 
Carroll. Please return-no ?'s 
asked. X4961 
LOST: One brown leather jacket, Saturday night at Corby and NO Ave.ltis a "Mirage" brand. Monetary reward offered. Call Steve at 283-3591. 
WANTED 
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE 
any weekend-ext 1938 
CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and 
unskilled. For information Call 
(615)779-5507 Ext. R-200 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 
Bridget McGuire's is looking for a few good women & men! Apply in person betw 3&4 W-Th-F Bar&Maintenance help. Become a working part of a Notre Dame tradition! 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED!! TO SHARE 2BDRM APT FOR NEXT YEAR (AND SUMMER IF POSSIBLE) FOR MORE INFO CALL LINDA@ 259-6841 !II!!! 
Needed: Ride home to San Diego alter finals (May 11 ). Will help with expenses and driving. Call x1420 
HEY NOW04/29/72LIVEDEADIN WEST GERMANY-WHOHAS THIS BIRTHOAYSHOWPLEASECALL TWICE AT X3270-WILL TRADE 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/year 
income potential. Details. (1) 602­
838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, 
Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
-FOR RENT 
I 
1 

STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? Sublet a townhouse at Turtle Creek...(2 bedrm., 1 1/2bathrm,kitchen, etc.) Call Amy at x2702 
Campus View Apartments, renting now for summer. 2 bedrooms­furnished-utilities included-short term leases. $425 per month. Call 272-1441. 
Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 
SUBLET A TURTLE CREEK 
APARTMENT!! BEAUTIFUL, 
PICTURESQUE, AND MORE ... 
CALL KELLY AT 4985 OR JULIE 
AT 287-9378 NOW!! 
A safe 3-4 bedroom house located across the street from campas. Washer/Dryer, garage and 2 full baths. ph. 234-7650. 
6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. 
1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 
234 6688 or 234 5041 . 
NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, 
MICRO, CLEAN & FURNISHED, 
1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947 
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable 
turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., 
efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., 
references. 
616-483-9572. 
GRADUATION HOUSING FOR 4­
5 PEOPLE. 708-355-4848. 
4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL 
YEAR. FURNISHED, W/0. CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE 
RENT. 277-0959. 
SUBLEASING FURNISHED 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273­
0302. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
219-291-7153. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097 
CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, 
VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, 
LARGE CLOSETS. 232-3972. 
2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, WILL RENT TO GROUP OR INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. 
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, 
AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. 
CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
f FOR SALE 
-SPRING BREAK -DAYTONA 199( A Two Hour Video. See What You 
Saw or See What You Missed. 
$17.95 plus $2.00 handling and 
shipping. 1-800-633-1639 . 
"Realistic" AM/FM stereo receiver. 60 watts per channel. Great condition but MUST SELLI $175 or b.o. Call 271-5686. 
1979 MGB convertible, British 
Racing Green, AM/FM radio, 
excellent condition, 54,000 miles, 
$4,300. Call 277-6551. 
LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST. LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to Rent. Condo~n Historic Bldg For Sale. 10 mins. to Wash. U & SLU Mad Ctrs & Main Campuses. Spacious Rehab w/Appliances & More. Call 271-8242. 
1978 VW HATCHBACK RABBIT. 
EXCELLENT CONDITION. AC. 
61,000 MILES. 272-1134. 
Is It Tnue....Jeeps for $44 
through the Government? Call 
for facts! 1-708-742-1142 Ext. 
7316. 

HEY!! ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO SEATILE !! -CHEAP!! leaves May 12'th. CALL JOE x 3489! 
PHONE RINGERS!!!...PLAYS THE NOTRE DAME "FIGHT SONG" DURING INCOMING CALLS AND STOPS WHEN YOU ANSWER. GREAT GIFTS FOR ONLY $15. AVAILABLE AT THE JACC PRO SHOP 

need grad tix! will pay big $ call277-8692 
Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. 
:.~~.~~':.:?!l.?reg at 3114 
NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN 
3rd Year Law Students Seniors -Anyone with Extra Graduation Tickets ­
HELP!! Need tickets desparately!!! II! Will pay lots of cash. Call 
Meleah at X4229 
I HAVE TWO GRADUATION TICKETS TO SELL. CALL BRUCE AT X1004 
Need 2 GRADuation tixl Will pay $$.Call Tom-1694. 
Wow, I'm finally older than you are. Hope you had a great birthday!!! 
Love, Your roommate Tina who was in Austria last year 
EARTH WEEK EVENTS "Is development possible w/o environmental backlash?" Panel Discussion 7:30pm Theodore's with experts 
Earth Week Earth Week Earth Week 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245 
SMC FRESHMEN Alter the Tequila Sunrise sets look towards the night for the 
Midnight Masquerade is coming!! 
Eccentric millionaire seeking new heir wants GRAD TIX. 
far~~ALS 
CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. 
spunk lords rule 

START YOUR NEW CAREER 
WITH A NEW CAR! 

We have special financing for 
employed graduates. 
Call: Gary Erb 
At: Gates Toyota 
237-4999 

Pub Tuesday ion April17 in 
Haggar Parlor-from 9-11 Come 
hear the summertime music! Men 
of NO come enter the "He's Got 
Legs" contest and win 4 dinners at 
Hacienda for 1st prize! See you at 
the Beach Party!! 

PHISH IS COMING!! WED. APRIL 25 
EARTH DAY 
EARTH DAY 
EARTH DAY 
hiag 

Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 ! 
'MO' 

SCOTI PADDOCK--nice race at the pool, Monday. How does it feel to lose to a girl????? 
ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic tutu re. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. 
BRUCE MARTZ IS THE STUDY CHUBBLES 
BROWN LEATHER JACKET: 
I lost my "Mirage" jacket on 
Saturday night at NO Ave and 
Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, 
please call me-lt's of great 
sentimental value. Reward!! Call 
Steve @3591 

Congratulations Matt Potts! Best of luck with the quotes this next year. You'll do a great job! Rene 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY STEPHIII 
Tuesday, April 17, 1990 Scoreboard page 15 ­
Boston Marathon 
WOMEN CHAMPIONS 1989 I. Kristiansen. Nor 1988 A Mota, Por1ugal 1987 R Mota, Ponugal 1986 I Krtshansen. Norway 1985 L Weidenbach, U.S 1964 L Moller, N Zealand 1983 J. Benoit, US 2'22:43 1982 C.Teske, W Germany 2:29:33 1981 A. Roe, N. Zealand 2:26·46 1980 J Gareau, Canada 2:34:28 
BOSTON MARATHON 
Men 
1. 
Galindo Bordin, Italy, 2 hours, 8 minutes, t9 seconds. 

2. 
Juma lkangaa, Tanzania, 2:09:52. 

3. 
Rolando Vera, Ecuador, 2:10:46. 

4. 
John Campbell, San Francisco, 2:11 :04. 

5. 
Rob DeCastella, Australia, 2:t1 :28. 

6. 
lsidrio Rico, Mexico, 2:t3:02. 

7. 
Geoffrey Smith, Mattapoisett, Mass., 2:13:38. 

8. 
Salah Ooqaiche. Morocco, 2:13:53. 

9. 
Futoshl Shlnohara, Japan, 2:t4:10. 

10. 
Philip O'Brien, Britain, 2:14:21. 

11. 
Tesfaye Tala, Ethiopia, 2:14:29. 

12. 
Gerry Curtis, Ireland, 2:14:37. 

13. 
Peter Maher. Canada, 2: t5:25. 

14. 
Darrell General, Temple Hills, Md .. 2:15:28. 

15. 
Thomas Eickmann, West Germany, 2:15:51. t6. Osamu Monee. Japan. 2:16:02. t7. Kjell Erik Stahl, Sweden. 2:16:19. 


18. 
Arthur Boileau, Eugene, Ore., 2:16:26. 

19. 
Steve Spence, Hanover, Pa., 2:16:40. 20. Delm1r Dos-Santos, Brazil. 2:16:44. 


21. 
Ryszard Marczak, Poland, 2:t6:44. 

22. 
Rich McCandless, Hayward, Calif., 2:16:56. 

23. 
Joseph Leuchtmann, St. Louis, 2:17:25. 

24. 
Mario Cuevas, Mexico, 2:17:30. 

25. 
Vincent Ruguga, Uganda, 2:17:46. 

26. 
lvo Rodriguez, Brazil, 2:18:13. 

27. 
Guido Genicco, Italy, 2:18:40. 

28. 
Paul Herlihy, New Zealand, 2:18:45. 

29. 
Joao Alves·de Souza, Brazil, 2:18:53. 

30. 
Manabu Kawagoe, Japan, 2:19:54. 3t. Bill Rodgers, Sherborn, Mass., 2:20:46. 


32. 
Abraha Arega, Ethiopia, 2:21 :16. 

33. 
Ernesto Beatriz, Mexico, 2:21:31. 

34. 
Laszlo Jajcz, Huegary, 2:21:31. 

35. 
Dave Long, Britain, 2:21:36. 

36. 
Artemio Navaro, Mexico, 2:23:07. 

37. 
Herb Wills, Tallahassee, Fla., 2:23:30. 

38. 
Yasushi Yoneyama. Japan, 2:23:59. 

39. 
Todd Smoot. Marietta, Ga.. 2:24:13. 

40. 
Kazimlerz Lasecki, Poland, 2:24:29. 

41. 
Russell Foley, Australia, 2:24:52. 

42. 
Pekka Vhah·Vahe, Finland, 2:25:23. 

43. 
Luis Lopez, Costa Rica, 2:25:30. 

44. 
Flavia Rivas Paz, Guyana, 2:26:22. 

45. 
Panagiotis Massaras, Greece. 2:26:41. 

46. 
Humberto Clavijo, Colombia, 2:26:47. 

47. 
Todd Coffin, Bath, Maine, 2:27:04. 

48. 
Wolfgang Muenzel, West Germany, 2:27:15. 

49. 
George Tomlinson, Canada, 2:27:26. 

50. 
Michael Keohane, Livingston, N.J., 2:27:40. 

51. 
Jose da Silva, Brazil, 2:27:44. 

52. 
Antonio Reve Duzzu, Cuba, 2:27:51. 

53. 
Christian Bloor, Seminole, Fla., 2:28:02. 

54. 
Michael Slavin, Amherst, Mass., 2:28:28. 

55. 
Michael Bressi, Elizabethtown, Pa., 2:28:29. 

56. 
Timothy Jones, Loveland, Colo., 2:29:00. 

57. 
Steven White, Newark, Del., 2:29:07. 

58. 
Daniel Banville. Canada, 2:29:15. 

59. 
Steven KAndall, Fairfax, Va., 2:29:32. 

60. 
Antonio Riscado, Portugal, 2:29:50. 


Women 
1. 
Rosa Mota, Portugal, 2:25:24. 

2. 
Uta Pippig, West Germany, 2:28:03. 

3. 
Marla Trujillo, Phoenix, 2:28:53. 

4. 
Kamila Gradus, Poland, 2:28:56. 

5. 
Kim Jones, Spokane, Wash .. 2:31:01. 

6. 
Veronique Maret, Britain, 2:31:09. 

7. 
Zoya lvanova, Soviet Union, 2:31:15. 

8. 
Ritva Lemettinen, Finland, 2:38:44. 

9. 
Dimltra Papaspirou, Greece, 2:38:45. 

10. 
Anne Roden, Britain, 2:39:36. 

11. 
Jane Wetzel, Gainesville, Fla., 2:42:04. 

12. 
Chle Matsuda, Japan, 2:42:14. 

13. 
Christa Vahlensieck, West Germany, 2:42:18. 

14. 
Cindy New, Canada, 2:44:08. 

15. 
Gillian Horovitz, New York, 2:45:00. 

16. 
Janina Aiello, Point Reyes, Calli., 2:45:02 


MEN CHAMPIONS  
1989  A Mekonnen, Eth.  2:09:06  
1988  I. Hussein, Kenya  2:08:43  
1987  T. Seko, Japan  2:11:50  
1986  R. de Castella, Aus.  2:07:51  
1985  G. Smith, Britain  2:14:05  
1984  G. Smith, Britain  2:10:34  
1983  G. Meyer, U.S  2:09:00  
1982  A. Salazar, U.S.  2:08:52  
T. Seko, Japan  2:09:26  
B. Rodgers, U.S.  2:12:11  

APICynthla Greer 

NHL PLAYOFFS 
Thursday, April 12 Chicago 5, Minnesota 1 St. Louis 4, Toronto 3, St. Louis wins series 
4· 1 

Calgary 5. Los Angeles 1 Edmonton 4, Winnipeg 3 
Friday, April 13 Boston 3, Hartford 2 Montreal 4, Buffalo 2 Washington 4, New Jersey 3 New York Rangers 6, New York Islanders 5, Rangers win series 4-1 
Saturday, April 14 
Edmonton 4, Winnipeg 3 Minnesota 5, Chicago 3 Los Angeles 4, Calgary 3, 20T, Los Angeles wins series 4·2 
Sunday, April 15 
Montreal 5, Buffalo 2, Montreal wins series 4-2 Washington 3, New Jersey 2, Washington wins series 4-2 Hartford 3, Boston 2, OT, series tied 3-3 
Monday, April 16 
Chicago 5, Minnesota 2, Chicago wins series 4·3 Edmonton 4, Winnipeg 1, Edmonton wins series 4-3 
Tuesday, April 17 Hartford at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
Minnesota 1 0 1--2 Chicago 0 4 1--5 
First Perlod-1, Minnesota, Barber 3 (Bellows), 9:02 (pp). Penalties-Manson, Chi (cross-checking), 8:47; Duchesne, Min (tripping), 11 :52; Brown, Chi, major-game misconduct (high-sticking), 14:5t; Savard, Chi, major-game misconduct (high­sticking), 17:37. Second Perlod-2, Chicago, Presley 4 (Sutter), 3:00. 3, Chicago, Presley 5 (Creighton, Thomas), 4:36. 4, Chicago, Roenick 4 (Goulet, Presley), 12:41. 6, Chicago, Roenick 5 (Larmer, Thomas), 14:06. Penalties-Barber, Min (hooking), :22; Wilkinson, Min (unsportsmanlike conduct), 5:45; Gagner, Min, misconduct, 5:45; Gilbert, Chi (unsportsmanlike conduct. 5:45; T.Murray, Chi, misconduct, 5:45; McRae, Min (roughing), 8:t 0; Chambers, Min (unsportsmanlike conduct), 8:1 0; Churla, Min (unsportsmanlike conduct), 8:1 0; Presley, 
Chi (roughing), 8:1 0; Thomas, Chi (unsportsmanlike conduct), 8:10. Third Perlod-6, Minnesota, Dahlen 1 (Murphy, Tinordi), 9:58. 7, Chicago, Gilbert 3 (Lemieux, T.Murray), 17:10. Penalties-None. Shots on goaf-Minnesota 14-8-10-32, Chicago 11-15-7-33. Power-play Opportunities-Minnesota 1 of 3; Chicago 0 of 2. Goalies-Minnesota, Casey, 3-4 (26 shots­22 saves), Takko (2:08 third, 0-0), Casey (5:55 third, 7-6). Chicago, Millen, 3-3 (32­30). A-17,883. Referee--Andy vanHellemond. Linesmen­Swede Knox, Wayne Bonney. 
Winnipeg 0 Edmonton 2 0 
First Perlod-1, Edmonton, Anderson 1 (Gregg, Ranford), 8:54. 2, Winnipeg, Steen 2 (Eiynuik, Nummlnen), 9:21. 3, Edmonton, Lamb 3 (Anderson, Lowe), 17:52. Penalties­Ranford, Edm, served by Simpson (slashing), 11 :32; Fenton, Win (hooking), 12:36. Second Period-None. Penalties­Taglianetti, Win (elbowing), 6:13; Evans, Win (elbowing), 15:03. Third Perlod-4, Edmonton, Tikkanen 4 (MacTavish, Kurri), 5:09. 5, Edmonton, Kurri 4 (Lamb, S.Smith), 17:48. Penalties-Gregg, Edm, double minor (cross-checking, unsportsmanlike conduct), 5:50; Donnelly, Win (charging), 1 0:28; S.Smith, Edm (cross­
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
New York Toronto Boston Detroit Cleveland Milwaukee Baltimore West Division 
Oakland Chicago 

· California Texas Kansas City Minnesota Seattle 
Saturday's Games 
w  L  
3  
5  3  
4  3  
3  4  
2  3  
2  3  
2  4  
w  L  
5  t  
4  1  
5  2  
3  4  
2  4  
2  5  
1  5  

Pet  GB  
.750  
.625  
.571  1/2  
.429  1  1/2  
.400  1/2  
.400  1  112  
.333  2  
Pet  GB  
.833  
.800  112  
.714  1/2  
.429  2  1/2  
.333  3  
.286  3  112  
.167  4  

Boston 4, Milwaukee 3 
Baltimore 7, Detroit 4 
Texas 8, New York 4 
Kansas City 3, Toronto 1 
Chicago 9, Cleveland 4 
Oakland 5, Seattle 2 
California 7, Minnesota 5, 12 innings 
Sunday's. Games 
Milwaukee at Boston, ppd., rain 
New York 3, Texas 1 
Detroit 6, Baltimore 4 
Chicago 4, Cleveland 1 
Toronto 5, Kansas City 4 
California 4, Minnesota 1 
Oakland 3, Seattle 0 
Monday's Games 
Late Game Not Included Milwaukee 18, Boston 0 Toronto 4, Baltimore 2 
Cleveland 6, Kansas City 3 Minnesota at Seattle, (n) 
Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games 
New York (Leary 0-0) at Detroit (Tanana 0-0), 7:35 p.m. Baltimore (Ballard 0-1 >' at Toronto (Flanagan 1-0), 7:35 p.m. Boston (Dopson 0-0) at Chicago (King 0-0), 8:05 p.m. Cleveland (Black 0-0) at Kansas City (Dotson 0-0), 8:35 p.m. Milwaukee (Knudson 0-0) at Texas (Brown 1 -0), 8:35 p.m. Minnesota (Anderson 1-1) at Seattle (Hanson 0-0), 10:05 p.m. 
Oakland (Moore 0-1) at California (Langston 1-0), 10:35 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games New York at Detroit, 1 :35 p.m. Baltimore at Toronto. 7:35 p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:05 p.m. Cleveland at Kansas City, 8:35 p.m. Milwaukee at Texas, 8:35 p.m. Minnesota at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. Oakland at California, 10:35 p.m. 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division 
w L 
z-Boston 49 29 
z-New York 45 34 
Washington 30 48 
New Jersey 17 61 
Miami 17 62 
Central Division 
x-Detroit 57 22 
z-Chicago 53 25 
z-Milwaukee 42 37 
z-lndiana 41 38 
Cleveland 38 40 
Atlanta 38 41 
Orlando 17 61 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Midwest Division 
w L 
z-Utah 54 24 
z-San Antonio 53 26 
Dallas 43 35 
Denver 40 38 
Houston 39 39 
Minnesota 22 56 
Charlotte 18 61 
Pacific Division 
x-LA Lakers 60 18 
z-Portland 55 23 
z-Phoenix 52 26 
Seattle 39 39 
Golden State 35 43 
LA Clippers 30 48 
Sacramento 23 56 
x-clinched conference title 
z-clinched playoff berth 
Saturday's Games 
Indiana 124, New Jersey 113 
Washington 113, Chicago 103 
Philadelphia 109, Charlotte 102 
Detroit 1 1 1 , Orlando 107 
Cleveland 93, Miami 85 
San Antonio 105, Sacramento 94 
Milwaukee 109, Atlanta 9:! 
Houston 103, Utah 99 
Seattle 96, Phoenix 89 
Denver 136, Portland 127 
Sunday's Games 
Boston 101, New York 94 
Utah 103, Minnesota 80 
Los Angeles Lakers 113, Houston 102 
Monday's Games 
Late Games Not Included 
New York 119, Miami t02 
San Antonio 110, Charlotte 101 
Indiana 11 1, Chicago 102 
Portland at Los Angeles Clippers. (n) 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL Pet GB .692 .671 1 1/2
z-Philadelphia 51 28 

Pet  GB  
.646  
.628  1 112  
.570  6  
.385  20  1/2  
.218  33  1/2  
.215  34  
.722  
.679  3  112  
.532  15  
.519  16  
.487  18  1/2  
.481  19  
.218  39  1/2  

,,

.551 .513 14 .500 15 .282 32 .228 36 1/2 
.769 .705 5 .667 8 .500 21 .449 25 .385 30 .291 37 112 
Tuesday's Games 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
East  Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Chicago  4  3  .571  
Montreal  4  3  .571  
St. Louis  4  3  .571  
New York  3  4  .429  
Philadelphia  3  4  .429  
Pittsburgh  3  4  .429  
West  Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Cincinnati  6  0  1.000  
San Diego  5  2  .714  t/2  
Los Angeles  4  3  .571  2 1/2  
San Francisco  2  4  .333  4  
Atlanta  5  .167  5  
Houston  5  .167  5  
z-denotes first  game  was  a  win  
Saturday's  Games  
Chicago 4,  Pittsburgh  1  
Houston 7, Los Angeles 3  
Montreal 6, New York 5  
San Diego 5, San Francisco 3, 10 innings  
Philadelphia 6,  St.  Louis 2  
Cincinnati  at  Atlanta,  ppd.,  rain  
Sunday's  Games  
Pittsburgh 4, Chicago 3,  10 innings  
Philadelphia 4,  St.  Louis 0  
Cincinnati  13, Atlanta  6  
Los Angeles 5, Houston 4,  10 innings  
San Diego 4, San Francisco 3  
Montreal 3, New York 1  
Monday's  Games  
Late  Game  Not  Included  
New York 10, Chicago 1  
Montreal  5,  Philadelphia 4  
St.  Louis 6,  Pittsburgh  4  
Cincinnati  5,  Atlanta  3  
San Francisco at Los Angeles, (n)  
Only games scheduled  
Tuesday's  Games  

San Diego (Benes 1-0) at Cincinnati (Browning 1 -0), 2:05 p.m. Philadelphia (Combs 0-1) at Montreal (Gardner 0-1), 7:35p.m. Chicago (Nunez 1-0) at New York (Fernandez 0-1), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (Mathews 0-1) at Pittsburgh (Heaton 1-0), 7:35p.m. Atlanta (Smaltz 0-1) at Houston (Portugal 0-1), 8:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Martinez 0-0) at San Francisco (Garrelts 0·0), 10:35 p.m. Wednesday's Games Los Angeles at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. San Diego at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at New York, 7:35 p.m. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Ga~ lor Tuesday, Apr1117 Stepan 1 
4:00 ·Sweet Scotty P. & The Dwarfs vs. UNLV ( Untamed Notoriuosty Lude Vigilantes) 
4:45 . 5 Guys From Zahm Who Can't Win vs. The Sloths 
5:30 . 3rd Degree Burns vs. Rich Holtz Gets Chicks Stepan 2 
4:00 ·Plop Plop Fizz Fizz vs. Freedom Rock II: Turn 
It Up Streak 4:45 . Shay's Rebellion vs. The Churnin' Urns of Won 2 Burnin' Funk Won 6 5:30-Newton Was Wrong vs. The Teeth 
Won 1 Stepan 3 

4:00 · Shoot To Thrill vs. We Can Do Some GoodWon 1 ThingsLost 3 
4:45 ·A Boa, A Python, Digger & 2 Other Choke Lost 8 
Artists vs. J. Crew Cotton Knit Reversible Weave 
Mango Barn Jacket Won 5:30-The Cotton Club vs. 4 Grey Hounds & A Lost 2 Poodle 
Won 1 Stepan 4 

4:00 · Harem Globe-Trotters vs. The Blues BrothersWon 2 4:45-It Doesn't Count Unless You Get The J vs.
Won 2 

Team #520 
Lost 1 5:30 · Don't Pass to Fruball: He'll Shoot vs. Team 

Lost 12 #664 Stepan 5 
Streak 
Won  1  
Won  4  
Lost  
Won  
Lost  
Lost  
Lost  4  
Won  2  
Lost  
Lost  
Won  2  
Lost  4  
Lost  1  
Lost  3  


Washington at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. New Jersey at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Denver at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Los Angeles Lakers at Seattle, 8 p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Cleveland at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Sacramento at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Utah at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Wednesday's Games Orlando at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Indiana at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Utah at San Anionic, 8:30 p.m. Portland at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Los Angeles Clippers at Golden State, 
FOOTBALL 
4:00 -Diggerbobs vs. Goldfinger & 4 Pinkies 
4:45 
. Moot Points vs. We Don't Need No Stinkin' Keith Tower 5:30-Beecher, Tool & Dye vs. Hutch Bucks Stepan 6 4:00-Lobule & Friends vs. Eddie & The Cruisers 

4:45 
-Just Chillln' vs. The Beaver Cleavers 5:30-Anita Better Basketball Team vs. Hodge Mooters Bookslore9 


4:00 -Sweet Lou & The Teabags vs. The Return of Bjorn Nittmo 
4:45 -2 All Beef Patties. Special Sauce, Lettuce and Cheese vs. Rabid Dawgs 
5:30 -The Flat Girls vs. Mouthfulls Bookstore 10 
4:00 · South Bend-Mishawaka-Alive With Pride vs. The Resurrected Blasphemers 
4:45 · Lenny's Swollen Utters vs. 5 Guys Who Weren't Offered Money From Illinois 
5:30 One Dribbler, One Shooter & 3 Other Guys Who Can't Score vs. Stick It, You Muthasl Lyons11 4:00-5 Guys Who Drive the O.J. Shoemaker Van vs. 5 Zorched Idiots 4:45-Acta Sanctorum vs. 5 Vermin Who Have Yet To See the Second Round 5:30-Earway vs. Anti-Slug Team Lyons 12 
4:00 ·Big Yellow Jellybeans vs. Ultimate Ninjas 4:45-Backjack's vs. The Traveling Cowboy & His 4 Bohunks 
5:30 · Everybody Wang Chung Tonight vs. Irish Wiskey Runners 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Tuesday, Aprtl 17 Men's tennis at Michigan Softball at St. Joseph's (Ind.) (2) 

10:30 p.m. Wednesday, Apr1118 
Baseball vs. NORTHWESTERN, Coveleski Stadium, 7 p.m. 
Thunlday, Apr1119 Baseball vs. BUTLER (2). 1 p.m. 
Friday, Aprtt 20 
Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay Men's Golf at Akron Invitational 

17. Cesarlno Taronl, Italy, 2:46:32 checking), 19:49. 
American League National Football League Saturday, Apr1121
18. Chiem! Saito, Japan, 2:47:28 Shots on goal-Winnipeg 7-10-10-27. 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Sent Lance McCullers, DENVER BRONCOS-Signed tan Howfleld, Baseball at Dayton (2)
19. 
Jane Hutchison, Webb City, Mo., 2:47:55 Edmonton 6-12-7-25. 


pitcher, to Columbus of the International kicker, and Paul Calhoun, punter. Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay 
20. 
Krlstl Norling, Shoreview, Minn.. Power-play Opportunities-Winnipeg 0 of 4; Men's Golf at Akron Invitational

League on a 30-day rehabilitation MIAMI DOLPHINS-Announced they will not 
2:49:13. Edmonton 0 of 4. assignment. retain the rights to Bob Brudzinski, Lacrosse at Ohio Wesleyan .. 
21. Judith Hine, New Zealand, 2:49:30. Goalies-Winnipeg, Beauregard, 1-3 (25 Softball at MCC Tournament
linebacker; Bruce Hardy, tight end; Jon 
22. Junko Kawakami, Japan, 2:50:04. shots-21 saves). Edmonton, Ranford, 4-3 
Giesler, tackle; and Don McNeal, cornerback. 
Sunday, April 22

23. Christine Gibbons, Elmwood Park, N.J .. (27-26). 
HOCKEY Signed George Swarn, running back. 
Baseball at Dayton (2)

2:50:09. A-17,503. 
National Hockey League COLLEGE Men's golf at Akron Invitational 
24. 
Maureen Griffith, Canada, 2:50:40. 


Referee--Kerry Fraser. Linesmen-Gerard PHILADELPHIA FLYEAS-Fired Bobby Clarke. UC IRVINE-Named Tom Ford athletic Men's tennis vs. OHIO STATE, 1 p.m. 
25. 
Mary Wood, Montrose, Colo., 2:51:09. Gauthier, Bob Hodges. 

vice president and general manager. director. Softball at MCC Tournament 
page 16 

-Big 10 has second thoughts about inception of Penn St. 

CHICAGO (AP) -Nearly four months after the Big 10 an­nounced tentative plans to add Penn State as an 11th school, a published report indicates that that some conference officials are less than enthusiastic about the proposal. 
Addition of the Nittany Lions is encountering increased op­position from athletic directors and coaches, especially Rick Bay of Minnesota and Bob Knight of Indiana, the Chicago Tribune reported in Sunday's editions. 
In response to the opposition, Big 10 Commissioner Jim Delany emphasized that invita­tion to Penn State represented only a _tflntative arrangement. 
"It's a two-step process," Delany said. "The first step was the invitation. The second step is for them to be brought in formally. That's under a process of review." 
Delany said the conference has set up a Transition and Expansion Committee, which has subcommittees on aca­demics and governance, com­petitive format and television and revenue sharing. 
The opposition to adding Penn State reportedly focuses on the Pennsylvania school's relatively remote location. 
''I've been to Penn State," Knight said recently. "And Penn State's a camping trip. There's nothing for about 100 miles." 

Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.) Then get ready to take off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
American Express and Northwest Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. travel privileges on Northwest -exclusively certificates and other certificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) her you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES 1DWARDS FREE TRAVEL-and personal service you would expect from OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig-Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Northwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for Each certificate is good for a six-month AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER the Card. And start packing! 
period, and they will arrive within six IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. -weeks after you receive the tard. Current Just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­Cardmembers will automatically receive AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 application and begin to process it provided they are still full time students~ immediately. (If you have your banking 
information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 
1-800-942-AMEX 

NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
.. 
*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student 10 and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensbow, NC 27425. Fa~e is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at thts fare are hm1ted and may not be available when you call. Travel must ·ongmate by ceruftcate expuanon date and be completed wlthm 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. © 1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
Tuesday, April 17, 1990 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Makarov will play for Soviets Czechs hammer
Team USA, 7-1 
Non-varsity Irish Spring run is scheduled for Saturday, April 21st. Sign-up at NVA. Cost is $4, but you get a dollar
in World Hockey tournament _r~~~~u~~A~:~\~;t~n~n(:JJ back if you wear green. 
-
CALGAHY, Alberta (AJ>) -a six-game international Sergei Makarov, who has suspension dealt to him after spent this season in the NIIL, he slashed the Soviet Union's will play for the Soviet Union Andrei Lomakin during the in the World Hockey 1987 Canada Cup. Championships in Originally it was thought Switzerland. Makarov would first have to 
"It's going to be much ny to Moscow to pick up a easier for me now. I'm used visa before travelling to to that type of hockey," Switzerland. Makarov said through an in-"I don't know if I have to terpreter. go back to the Soviet 
Makarov is one of nine Union," he said. "They might Calgary players joining make the visa here." teams from four different Makarov has played in nine countries following the world championships and Flames' elimination from the won seven gold medals. Last first round of the Stanley year he scored five goals and Cup playoffs. added three assists in 10 
Defenseman AI Macinnis, games at the world champi­centers Doug Gilmour and onships and was named a Joe Nieuwrmdyk, and winger first-team all-star. Theoren Fleury will play for A return to the Soviet na-Team Canada. Left winger tiona! team means Makarov Paul Hanheim, center Joel will be reunited with coach Otto and defnnseman Gary Victor Tikhonov, whom he Suter will play for Team has feuded with in the past. U.S.A., while center Jiri "I'm not going for Ilrdina will JOin the Tikhonov, I'm going for my Czeehoslovakians. country," said Makarov. "I 
Joe Mullen declined an invi-don't care who the eoach is. tation to play for the United .I just want to play and win, States. Suter is going even even though a lot of things though he will have to serve depend on coaches." 
containing only four NHL play­ers, was routed 7-1 by Czechoslovakia on Monday night in its opening game at the World Hockey Championships. 
The Czechoslovaks led 1-0 after the first period, then scored four goals in the second to put the game out of reach. 
Zdenko Ciger, Hobert Reichel and Jiri Dolezal scored two goals apiece for Czechoslovakia. Chris Dahlquist of the Pittsburgh Penguins scored the Americans' lone goal at 7:19 in the third period. 
In an earlier opening-round game, Team Canada beat West Germany 5-1. The Soviet Union, the defending champion, blitzed Norway 9-1 and Sweden beat archrival Finland 4-2 at Bern. 
Team USA missed an excel­lent chance to get back into the game when John Fritsche was stopped on a penalty shot early in the second period with the Americans trailing 2-0. Instead, the Czechs took a 3-0 lead about two minutes later when Ciger scored his first goal. 
"The Czechs played very well and they deserved to win the game," Team USA coach Tim 

• 

''I'M A COLLEGE STUDENT. AND 
WORKING FOR 
KELLY HAS HELPED ME UNDERSTAND THE BUSINESS 
WORLD.'' 

"I've broadened my education and expanded my knowledge. Improved my skills. It's the perfect job experience to put on a resume or an application." 
KELLY~~:;:ry 
• 
<:)1990 K<olly Services, Inc. The Kelly Giri®People-The First and The Best® EOE M/F/H/V Nol an agency -n...r a lee 
•~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NVA upcoming events include: bike tour on Sunday, April 22nd; Bike clinic on Wednesday, April 18th; the Irish Spring Run on April 21st; team tennis tourney April 21st and a kayak race April 17th. 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
WVFI-AM 640 Sports Talk will hear from basketball analyst Dick Vitale, football color man Joe Theisman and many more as hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan discuss recruiting at Notre Dame from 8 to 9 p.m. tonight. Call 239-6400 with questions. 
Crew team will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 104 O'Shag. Bring money for Madison and awards ceremony. 
The Notre Dame softball team swept a doubleheader against Loyola yesterday by scores of 4-0 and 15-1 to raise its record to 18-13 on the season. The Irish will travel to St. Joseph's of Indiana today for a 3:30 game and return home for a 3:30 match against MCC-leading Dayton on Wednesday. 
Taylor said. "We tried hard, least four are expected to ar­but we haven't had the training rive on Tuesday, when Team together and we don't have USA plays Canada. many of our top players with us Among the expected arrivals in Switzerland. It makes it very are goalie Chris Terreri of the difficult this early in the cham· New Jersey Devils, Joel Otto pionships." and Paul Hanheim of the 
The American team has spots Calgary Flames and possibly for five more players and at Mark Johnson of New Jersey. 
Hoops

• continued from page 24 
and Bill Cartwright will all have to turn their games up a notch if the Bulls plan on defeating the achilles heel, the Pistons, to reach the finals. 
5. 
Portland: The Trail Blazers are the best team you've never seen on network television. but they have won only two playoff series since Bill Walton led them to the league title in 1976-77, so expe­rience could be a problem. 

6. 
San Antonio: One win in their final three games would give the Spurs, who were 21-61 last year, the all-time greatest one-season turnaround in NBA history. San Antonio needs a year or two for Hod Strickland and Sean Elliot to improve, however, before it reaches the finals. 



• 
7. Boston: The Celtics have plenty of experience, but Robert Parish, Larry Bird, Kevin McHale and Dennis Johnson have all lost a step; the battle scars are taking their toll on the old warriors. 
8. Philadelphia: Bruise 

brothers Charles Barkley and Rick Mahorn will knock some people around, but can a team which starts Mike Gminski de­feat the Pistons or the Bulls in a seven-game series? 
9. Phoenix: Kevin Johnson is much underrated as a point guard and a leader, but the Suns aren't strong enough in­side to muscle with the big boys. 

-
-
-

r 
-Brewers batter Boston 18-0; Blue Jays bounce Baltimore 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, April17, 1990 
BOSTON (AP) The Milwaukee Brewers recorded the largest shutout in the club's history, pounding out 20 hits and beating the Boston Red Sox 18-0 Monday before a Patriots Day crowd of 35,478 in Fenway Park. 
Dave Parker and Greg Brock had four hits each and Gary Sheffield, Edgar Diaz and Brock drove in three runs apiece. Milwaukee had nine doubles, one triple but no home runs. 
Blue Jays 4, Orioles 2 
TORONTO (AI') -John Cerutti pitched five shutout in­nings and the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Baltimore Orioles 4-2 Monday in the first game between the teams since their season-ending series last year. 
Toronto entered last season's 

-final weekend with a one-game lead over Baltimore in the American League East. The Blue Jays won the first two games of the series to clinch the division title, then lost to Oakland in the AL playoffs. 
Mets 10, Cubs 1 
CHICAGO (AP) -Frank Viola extended his scoreless streak to 13 innings and Howard Johnson doubled twice to drive in three runs as the New York Mets beat the Chicago Cubs 10­1 Monday. 
Viola (2-0) struck out eight, walked none and allowed four hits before Alejandro Pena re­lieved and got his first save for New York. Viola had combined with John Franco on a five-hit shutout last week against Pittsburgh. 
Reds 5, Braves 3 
ATLANTA (AP) -Barry Larkin, with at least two hits in all six games, keyed a three-run first inning with the first of his four hits and Cincinnati re­mained the only unbeaten team in the majors. 
The Reds, off to their best start since going 8-0 in 1980, jumped on Pete Smith (1-1) for four hits in the first. They made it easy for Jack Armstrong (2­0), who ran his scoreless string to 11 innings before the Braves, losers of four straight and five of six, scored in the sixth. 
STYLE S-2 Two color. Black and Orange Silk Screen on pre­mium quality white sweatshirt. Sizes (S-M-L-XL) $23.00 plus $2.00 shipping. 

-


STYLE S-4 Two color, Black and Orange Silk Screen on pre­mium quality white sweatshirt. Sizes (S-M-L-XL) $23.00 plus $2.00 shipping. 
Indiana Residenls add 5% Sales TIVC . 



.. 
26190 QUINN ROAD NORTH LIBERTY. IN 46554 

-
Cardinals 6, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Terry Pendleton had a two-run double and Jose DeLeon and five re­lievers combined on an eight­hitter, leading St. Louis over troublesome Pittsburgh. 
Jose Oquendo and Vince Coleman also had RBis as St. Louis, 5-13 against Pittsburgh in 1989, ended a six-game los­ing streak against the Pirates that dated to last year. 
John Smiley (0-2), still recov­ering from off-season elbow surgery, retired the first two hitters before Todd Zeile walked and Pedro Guerrero singled. Pendleton doubled down the right field line, scor­ing both when the ball struck the bullpen fence and caromed away from Bobby Bonilla. The Cardinals made it 4-0 in the fourth on doubles by Brunansky and Oquendo and Coleman's RBI single. 
DeLeon (1-0), winning for the second time in five career deci­sions against his former Pittsburgh teammates, allowed two hits in 5 1-3 innings, in­cluding a two-run homer by Bonilla in the fourth. Bonilla has two homers and five RBis in his last two games. 


; 

. D . h APPhoto
Dwight Evans of the Boston Red Sox! shown here agamst etr01t, ad a tough time yesterday against 
Milwaukee, QoinQ hitless in four at-bats 111 an 18-0 Red Sox loss. 
Expos 5, Phillies 4 who was relieved by Jell 
MONTREAL (AP) -Montreal Parrett. He loaded loaded the 
took advantage of four walks bases on walks to pinch-hitters 
and Spike Owen's first home Mike Aldrete and Larry Walker 
run to score three times in the and a bunt single by DeLino 
seventh inning. DeShields. 
With the Expos trailing 4-2, 
Owen started the seventh by Tim Raines singled home with the tying run, but DeShields was thrown out at the plate by right fielder Von Hayes. Todd Frohwirth relieved Parrett (0-2) and issued back­to-hack walks to Tim Wallach and Andres Galarraga to force Walker home with the go-ahead 
page 19

Tuesday, April 17, 1990 The Observer 

-
~~,YA~E~}~~~ 21\i1"£l~~~~"~!!!~, ~~~,~. ~~~~. 
Clarke was fired as vice presi-manager, the Flyers won three surable. 
dent and general manager by the Philadelphia Flyers on Monday following the team's poorest season in 18 years. 
'This afternoon I met with Bob Clarke and relieved his of his duties," Flyers President .Jay Snider said at a hastily eaiiPd press conference. "After much discussion over months, we had fundar111~ntal differ­m1cns. Wn had the same goal-to win tho Stanlny Cup. We dis­agrned on how to do it. 
"This is a very difficult and painful docision ... it has be­come apparent that Bob and I differ on tlw direction of the team. and thus I fenl that this step is a rwcnssary one," Snider said. 
Clarke, the greatest scorer in Flyers' history, had been vice president and GM since May 1984, following his 15-year playing career in Philadelphia. 
Patrick Division titles and two Wales Conference champi­onships. They reached the Stanley Cup semifinals three times and the finals twice, los­ing to Edmonton both times. 
But the team's regular-season performance has dropped each season since 1984-85, when the Flyers finished first overall before losing in thn finals. This season, the Flyers were last in the Patrick Division and ended up under .500 for the first time since 1971-72. 
Clarke is the Flyers' all-time leading scorer with 358 goals and 852 assists for 1,210 points. lie also recorded 42 goals and 77 assists in the playoffs, led the Flyers to their only two Stanley Cups, in 197 4 and '75 and was inducted into the llockey llall of Fame in 1987. 
Snider said Clarke's contribu-
Senior Formal Candid Proofs 
on display April 16-20 in Senior Class Office at ND & Game Room at Haggar (SMC) Formal Packages and Candid Pickup-Wed. April25, 12-5 
Any St. Mary's Party Pic's can be reordered Wednesday at Haggar. 
ILLINOIS CAMPUS* 
200 Glendale Street Wheeling, 60090 (708) 215·7870 
MISSOURI CAMPUS* 
1322 S. Campbell Springfield, 65807 (417) 831·7902 
HAWAII CAMPUS* 
46·005 Kawa Street Kaneohe, 96744 (808) 247·2117 
ALABAMA CAMPUS 
2611 Leeman 
Ferry Road 
Huntsville. 35801 
(205) 536·9088 
*handicapped 
accesstble 


I f you're looking for an accredited graduate school to help you emerge into a success­ful clinical psychologist, you'll want to examine our credentials. We've been preparing serious students for professional psy­chology for 10 years. 
Our four-year DOCTOR OF PSYCHOLGY IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY program will turn you into a well-rounded, effective practitioner. It pro­vides professional knowledge and clinical skills through three years of psychological and clinical study, 800 hours of supervised training and a one­year internship. 
Our five trimester MASTER OF ARTS IN PSY­CHOLOGY program will build a strong background for Psy. D studies. 
For more information about us, 
Call TOLL FREE 1-800-779-PSYD 
Forest Institute of Professional Psychology 
"His commitment and work ethic as a general manager were equal to that of Bob Clarke, the player ... Bob will always be the ultimate Philadelphia Flyer." 
Snider was asked if there were any specifics that prompted the firing. 
"The way I've run the team is to let the coach do the coaching and the general manager do the general managing," he said. "This is not an issue of the past, but of the future." 
lie said no decision had been made about the s~atus of coach Paul Holmgren, who was hired two years ago by Clarke when Mike Keenan was fired after getting the Flyers to the finals for the second time in three years. 
"The focus was solely with 
-
the general manager and what was necessary for the future. I have not dealt with the coach­ing position up to this point," Snider said. 
He also said he had not looked into a successor for Clarke. 
AP Photo

"I will talk with my people. 
The Winnipeg Jets fell short in their bid to upend Edmonton as the
We will develop a long list and 
Oilers won game seven of their best-of-seven series last night by 
then cut it down to to a short 
a score of 4-1. 
list.We will have to agree on fundamentals. " 
• .: . . . 
-------~-~-~ 
·====······= 
COLLEG~~ 
GRADUATE FINANCE PLAN 
the basketball program's 84­

Jordan's Auto Mall 
YOU DESERVE 
year history, became an assis­

SOME CREDIT. 609 E. Jefferson
• 
tant at Virginia in 19S2 and 

. Mishawaka 
played under Holland in 1979­

II­
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 
S2.
(219) 259-1981 

"Any success that we accom­~=~==========::::::::::======:::. plish will be built on the foun­
l[pcoming Events 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 
Lecture 
DANIEL LUECKE Director, Rocky Mountain Regional Office Environ­mental Defense Fund 
"GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES & NATIONAL SECURITY: Comments on Our Common Future" 
4:00p.m. 
Room 121 Law School 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
IIIII~N~~~o~~~~: 
Ex-Assistant will succeed Holland as coach of Cavs 
CIIARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (APJ -Assistant Jeff Jones was named Monday as Virginia's basketball coach, ending a search that saw three more prominent coaches turn down a chance to succeed Terry Holland. 
The 29-year-old Jones, who becomes the youngest coach in 


dation he has established," Jones said of Holland, who left after 16 years to become ath­letic director at Davidson. "There will be some changes, but I promises you that the physical and mental toughness and pride with which players wear the Virginia jerseys will continue." 
During the coaching search conducted by athletic director Jim Copeland, Providence coach Rick Barnes turned down the job and Xavier's Pete Gillen and Stanford's Mike Montgomery turned down overtures about coming to Virginia. 
"I got a little lucky," Jones said. "Some things fell into place. But I'd like to think that hard work for Coach Holland has prepared me for this task." 
.Iones called the period of the search "a little bit of an emo­tional roller coaster. I've tried not to let my emotions get too high, or too low. But when the season was over, it was hard to keep and even keel." 

Copeland said Jones "has an ­uncanny grasp of the technical and strategic aspects of the game." 
A native of Owensboro, Ky., .Iones was the Cavs' point guard during the Halph Sampson era. Those teams were 102-28, won the 19SO NIT and reached the Final Four in 1981. .Iones still holds the school record for career assists at 598. 
In the summp,r of 1974, Holland took over a Virginia program that had never sent a team to the NCAA tournament and had produced winning records in just four of the pre­vious 25 years. 


Tuesday, April17, 1990
-~---. ~-----­

-Robinson spurs San Antonio to victory 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­The San Antonio Spurs, with rookie David Robinson bounc­ing back from his worst game of the year with 25 points and 12 rebounds, tied the NBA record for the most improved team with a 110-101 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Monday night. 
The Spurs are 53-26 after winning only 21 games last season. The 32-game improve­ment ties the Boston Celtics, who did it in 1979-80, Larry Bird's rookie season. 
The Spurs also pulled within 1 1/2 games of idle Utah in the race for the Midwest Division championship. The Spurs have three games remaining, includ­ing a home date Wednesday night against, the Jazz, who have four games left. 
Robinson, who was held to a
.. 
career low five points Saturday night against Sacramento while suffering from a stomach virus, scored 12 points in the fourth quarter as the Spurs held off the Hornets, who lost their fourth straight. 
After Randolph Keys pulled Charlotte to 97-96 on a driving 
AP Photo 

shot with 3:30 left, the Spurs
Rookie David Robinson of the San Antonio Spurs scored 25 points 
sealed the victory with a 9-0 
and added 12 rebounds in a 11 0-1 01 win over Charlotte last night. 
run. 


r
iDIIIHIIHIIHHimU..miiiiiiiHIUITDIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHUIIWIIIII 
=-SUMMER STORAGE a
I FOR STUDENTS = ;§ High St. Storage :: 1212 High St. I§! 288-3575 
= = 
!! ACC Jt.. 
~ * I
= = Edison N =­
Douglas's court battle with King is delayed again 

LAS VEGAS (AP) Heavyweight champion Buster Douglas' courtroom fight with promoter Don King has been delayed once again and now may end up being heard first in New York instead of Las Vegas. 
A federal judge in New York on Monday said he might hear the case on April 30 if a crimi­nal trial set for that date does not go forward. 
That would put the New York trial ahead of a planned trial in federal court in Las Vegas, now set for May 21. 
Douglas initiated the legal battle after he knocked out Mike Tyson in February to win the heavyweight crown, claim­ing he should be free of his con­tracts with King so he could de­fend his title in September against Evander Holyfield at The Mirage in Las Vegas. 
King filed a suit of his own in New York, asking that the con­tracts be declared valid and that The Mirage be stopped from interfering with them. 
Both sides agreed earlier this month to go to trial April 23 in Las Vegas, but that date was later vacated by U.S. District Judge Howard McKibben, who set a new date of May 21 for the Las Vegas trial. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet on Monday said he would hear the New York case April 30 if a scheduled criminal case does not go forward, or May 28 if it does. 
Douglas has agreed on a $60 million two-fight deal with Mirage operator Steve Wynn, but the fights are contingent on Douglas winning the suit and being free to fight at the resort. 
Under terms of the pact, Douglas will get $25 million to defend the title against No. 1 contender Evander Holyfield in September. Should he win that fight, he will receive another $35 million for a rematch with Tyson. 


Jobs In Alaska 
HIRING Men -Women • Summer/ Ye&l Round. CANNERIES, ASHING, LOGGING, TOUMIM, CONSTRUCTION up to MOO ~. pU FAEE room and oo.rd. CALL NOWI c:.Mlndlble. 1·2 7 BT 

= a ~ == 
II :g = 
!!!!I!! w ­
Calll-800-MBA-NEXT ;;= Lincoln Way = for Complete Information. 
II R~r 
= = 
High St.*
•I 

Iilii = 
II = ;;;
=== =LA deposit will hold your storage unit 
Hurry Now-Spaces are going fast! = tu•n•unoiiHIIIIUIIIIIHIIIIHUI.IIIIUIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII. 
Willie Anderson scored 28 points in helping the Spurs to their fourth straight victory. Kelly Tripucka led the Hornets with 24 points and Kenny Gattison, filling in for Armon Gilliam, out with the flu, had 18 points and 11 rebounds. 
Pacers 111, Bulls 1 02 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Chuck Person scored 33 points, nine in the fourth period, and the Indiana Pacers earned only their third NBA playoff berth in 14 years as they beat the Chicago Bulls 111-102 Monday night. 
The victory was a present for the Pacers' second-year coach Dick Versace, who celebrated his 50th birthday. The Pacers' only other NBA playoff appear-
Knicks 119, Heat 1 02 NEW YORK (AP) -Kiki Vandeweghe and Patrick Ewing combined for 28 points as the New York Knicks scored a sea­son-high 46 points in the third quarter and beat the Miami Heat 119-102 Monday night. 
The Knicks had two more points in the third period than they did in the entire first half, breaking away from a 44-44 halftime tie by outscoring Miami 46-26 in the quarter for a 90-70 lead. New York made 16 of 23 shots in the third pe­riod and Vandeweghe, who was 0-for-6 and failed to score in the first half, was 6-for-6 and scored 15 of his 22 points in the quarter. Ewing scored 13 of his 25 points in the period. 
Ask the Manager Who Has the MBA from liT. 

Full-time, part-time evening and Saturday MBA programs are offered at liT's main campus, liT Downtown Center, liT West in Glen Ellyn and the Galvin Center in Schawnburg. 
Stuart School of Business 
II 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Chicago, IL60616 © l!l!llllllinccisln!->litutt•clfTP('hllcllcc).t\ 
L-----------------------------------------J 
The countdown is on!! Only 3~ more days to go! Celebrate by getting involved in Senior Month activities 
Today: A limited number of tickets for the April 22 Cubs Game ($17) and May 5 Great America Trip ($25) are on sale in the Senior Class Office from 3-5. 
Tonight: Pat's Pub 901 W. 4th St., Mishawaka Dinner specials and more! 6:30 p.m. 
Consult your Senior Month Booklet for more fun-filled activities ahead. 
-
I 
l 
I 
I 
... 

Tuesday, April17, 1990 The Observer page 21 
-
Graf returns to winning ways with Bausch & Lomb trium 

Student Government's lAST LECfURESERIES 
SrunENf 
/}~ 
Professor Himes from the TheologyDept. 
8:00pm atthe 
Librmy Auditorium 
AQWOBKS 

-
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. (AP)-Martina Navratilova had Just when the third longest streaks of 74 matches in 1984 winning strnak in women's ten-and 58 in 1986-87. nis history looked vulnerable, Hight now, though, the West StnfTi (;raf rmtf'l1rmnd her sta-German is more concerned with tus as the world's No. 1 player. the consistency of her game 
Graf, shrugging off a pair of following her return from a unimpressive pnrformances, two-month layoff due to a bro­trounc!~d Arantxa Sanchez ken right thumb. She passed Vicario 6-1. 6-0 on Sunday to her first test, but not without a win the Bausch & Lomb few anxious moments. Championships. Graf uncharacteristically 
Tlw victory extended Grars made 42 unforced errors while winning streak to 57 matches beating Carling Bassett-Seguso since Sanchez Vicario beat her in the quarterfinals and had 49 in last year's Frnneh Open final. more before defeating Natalia 


The Smart College Studenfs Summer Checklist 
l . Job applications 
2. /USB SUMMER SCHEDULE* 
+------1990SUMMER SESSIONS -----41 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY AT SOUTH BEND 
Session I: May 14-June 25 (Register May 9-10) 
Session II: July 2-Aug. 13 (Register June 26-27) 
*Summer Schedules available from IUSB Admissions Office, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., P.O. Box 7111, South Bend, IN 46634 (phone 219-237-4455). 
Mak·e this summer count 
Zvereva in the semis. 
Meanwhile, Sanchez Vicario 
rolled along against Helen 
Kelesi and Gabriela Sabatini 
and entered Sunday's final 
confident she could beat Graf 
again. 

"I didn't have the easiest time 
(in the quarterfinals and semi­
finals). but I knew what I was 
doing wrong," said Graf, who 
defeated Sanchez Vicario in 47 
minutes. 

"I talked to my father and my 
coach about what to do. It was 
just a matter of keeping loose, 
and they tried to get me more 
relaxed." 

Graf, 20, made a few minor adjustments, but said the biggest difference was that she was more patient in the final. She had only 14 unforced er­rors against Sanchez Vicario and allowed the Spaniard one point or less in nine of 13 games. 
"Clay is a slower surface, so you have to play more economi­cally. You can't just try to al­ways hit winners," Graf said. 
"You have to have the right shot selection, the right timing. I just approached it a little bit morn intelligently. I didn't go for too much. I hit the right shots when I had to." 
Sanchez Vicario -the youngest woman to win the French Open at 17 years, six months when she beat Graf last June -took the loss in stride, despite missing out on an op­portunity to jump from fifth to third in the world rankings. 
"But it's OK, I'm still learn­ing. When my game is 100 per­cent, I can beat Steffi. It's not going to be like this next time," said Sanchez Vicario. who's 1-6 against Graf. 
"When somebody doesn't make any mistakes, you try something different, but noth­ing worked," she added. "I tried to come back, but I didn't have a chance. I think she played her best." 
The victory gave Graf her third Amelia Island title, but the first since 1987. She lost tu 
• 
Sabatini in the semifinals two years ago and again in last year's final. 
"After the last two years, I'm happy to play this well and end up a winner again." Graf said. "And I'm happy I had some tough matches, even if I didn't play well. There are some big tournaments coming up, and this should help me get ready for them." 
TUE~DAY, APRIL 17th 
.. 
--~--------~-·------­
--------------~-----~-~----------------------­
page 22 The Observer Tuesday, April17, 1990
.. 
Bordin, Mota stride to Marathon triumph 
BOSTON (AP) -Olympic champions Gelindo Bordin and Rosa Mota both made history Monday by becoming Boston Marathon champions. 
Bordin won the men's marathon, becoming the first Italian and first Olympic cham­pion to accomplish the feat. Mota, of Portugal, ran away with the women's race for her record -setting third Boston Marathon victory. 
The 31-year-old Bordin did what nine other men's Olympic champions failed to do by over­taking Tanzania's Juma Ikangaa at Heartbreak Hill and winning in 2 hours, 8 minutes and 19 seconds. It broke the Italian mark of 2:09:27 Bordin set in finishing fourth at Boston in 1988. 
"It is. not easy being an 

• Olympic champion," Bordin said. "For three or four months, I couldn't move with­out people stopping me -at a restaurant, on the road, every­where. If I didn't go, I hurt the sport." 
He's about to become even more well-known. The race was broadcast live in Italy, with the announcers screaming as Bordin covered the final yards. 
"Gelindo's victory on the streets of Boston brought back for me the emotions of the Olympic Games in Seoul, emo­tions which I thought couldn't be repeated," Gianni Gola, president of the Italian Track Federation, said. "But today the emotions were even more intense." 
For Ikangaa, it was another heartbreaking defeat. It was the third straight time he has finished second at Boston. Ikangaa, a one-second loser to Kenya's Ibrahim Hussein in '88 and beaten by 50 seconds by Abebe Mekonnen of Ethiopia last year, finished 1:33 behind Bordin, in 2:09:52. 
Rolando Vera of Ecuador was third in his marathon debut in 2:10:46, a South American record. 
Mota, who also won at Boston in 1987 and 1988, led the women's division the entire way, finishing in 2:25:24. Her other winning times were 
2:25:21 in 1987 and 2:24:30 in '88. 

Mota finished 42nd overall and beat runner-up Uta Pippig of West Germany by nearly three minutes. Pippig finished in 2:28:03, while Maria Trujillo of Mexico was third in 2:28:53. 
In the Masters division, 41­year-old John Campbell of New Zealand smashed the Masters world best. clocking 2:11:04 and finished fourth overall. Campbell, sixth in 1988 and fifth last year, erased the mark of 2:11:10 set by New Zealand's Jack Fultz in 1974. 
World bests also fell in the men's and women's wheelchair divisions. 
Moussetapha Badid, 24, of France took more than six minutes off the previous men's mark, winning in 1:29:53. The first eight finishers also went under the mark of 1:36:04 set 

-
by Philippe Couprie of France last year at Boston. Franz Nietlispach of Switzerland was second in 
1:31:31 and Couprie third in 1:32:15. 
In the women's wheelchair section, Jean Driscoll, 23, of Champaign, Ill., won in 1:43:17, also more than six minutes un­der the previous mark of 1:50:06, set by Connie Hansen in winning at Boston in 1 ':)89. 

r 
AMERICAN 
+
CANCER 
SOCIETY• 

But it was the stirring per­formance of the unconventional Bordin who most excited the crowd that lined the 26-mile, 385-yard course from subur­ban Hopkinton to the finish line at downtown Boston. 
Running a smartly paced race, he let a group of African runners burn themselves out with a blistering early pace be­fore making his move over the hills -especially over the gru­eling Heartbreak Hill, the 20­to-21-mile mark of the race. 
"They run crazy -4:20 the first mile," Bordin said of the Africans. "I understand it im­possible to win the race at that speed. I just run by myself, con­trol my pace." 
Bordin is one of 21 children and started running at 14 wearing oversized shoes. Until five years ago, he designed homes, churches and other buildings. And now, in between running, he designs a line of clothing for a sporting goods store he manages in Verona. 
Bordin ran his first marathon in 1984 and won the European championship. He also won the European title in 1986 and the Rome Marathon in 1987, was third in the 1987 world cham­pionships and third in the 1989 New York City Marathon. 
This was his first victory since winning the Olympic gold at Seoul. 
He and Mota each collected $50,000 from the $350,000 purse. 



3. Burn a laundry. 
4. Let it all out at 
Summer 
..-f'RD
TORAGE 

While Mota's victory was an easy one, there was some drama in the men's field. The group of African runners, in­cluding Ikangaa and Hussein, went out so quickly it appeared the world best of 2:06:50 set by Ethiopia's Belayneh Densimo in 1988. would be broken. 
But one by one, the group broke up, until Ikangaa was far ahead after 16 miles. By 19 miles, he had stretched his lead to about 120 yards. 
Shortly afterward, however, he began experiencing cramps in his left calf and slowed no­ticeably. 
That's when Bordin, running a consistent pace, began mak­ing inroads on the faltering Ikangaa. Once he sped past him, Ikangaa could not cover the move, and steadily fell back. 
"I feel unlucky," Ikangaa said. "I will keep trying until I win. I was very disappointed. I thought I could control the pace, but I couldn't." 
Instead, it was Bordin who controlled the pace and the race the rest of the way. 
As he neared the finish line, he pumped his right hand into the air three times, then just 

AP Photo 
The Raiders might not move back to Oakland after all. Oakland Mayor Lionel Wilson says the movement to return the Raiders to Oakland may die because a campaign put the matter to a vote. 
HOW TO RELIEVE FRUSTRATION.
before he broke the tape, he clenched both fists and smiled to the crowd, which loudly ap­
1. Fight with your roommate. 
plauded his popular triumph. 
2. Fight with your boyfriend/girlfriend. 
(It's heen done.) (It'• heen done.) (It's heen done.) 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOWI 683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Ware houses 
BIKE CLINIC 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 4:00PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
new producu 
In cue or bad weather, the clinic will be held In the FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM at the JACC 
call 239 -:5100 for further information 
Our thanks to OUTPOST SPORTS for presenting the clinic 
NIGH I 

h c facullt ~ and StudentS 
at the 
Saturday, April 28 oc Y~~~ ~ 
in the basement of Grace Hall 
For all you frustrated co:media.ns. 
Coffeehouse Hours: Interested faculty and students Wednesday-Thursday 8:30--12:00 contact Alex Nunez at x1580 Friday-Saturday 8:30-1 :30 or VIctor Krebs at 239-5520 
Sunday 8:30--12:00 to set up an audition. 
BIKE TOUR 
25 MILE ROUND TRIP LAKE MICHIGAN ROUTE SUNDAY, APRIL 22 
ADVANCE REGISTRATION REQUIRED $3.00 FEE TO COVER FOOD COSTS REGISTERATNVABY ,APRIL19 
••••··•••··•••••···•···•·••···•••··········••·•·····•··· 

... 

Tuesday, April17, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS

Tuesday 
6:30p.m. Films, "Soothing the Bruise," "The Man Who Could Not See Far Enough," and "You Only Live Once." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO communication and theatre. 
7:30p.m. Film, "Don Giovanni," Room 206 Architecture Building. Sponsored by ND School of Architecture AlAS. 
9:15p.m. Film, "Mean Streets," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND communication and theatre. 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. lloly Cross Mission House. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Tuesday 
2:45 p.m. Leeture, "The Marine Air-Ground Task Force War Fighting Presentation," Col. Bartels and a 6-man team from Virginia. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Naval Scienee. 
3:30 p.m. Leeture, "The Hole of Water in Activating Nnarly Dry Enzyme Powders," Professor M. E. Paulaitis, Dnpartment of Chemieal Engineering, University of Delaware. Hoom 356 Fitzpatrick. Refreshments, 3 p.m.Hoom 1 Rl. Sponsored by department of chemical engineering. 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Hevolution from Above? Gorbachev and the Heform Tradition in Hussian History," Benoit Eklof, Indiana University. Hoom 122 llayes~llealy. Sponsored by thn department of history. 
4:30 p.m. Leeture, "Particulate Organk Carbon Supply and Trophie Dynamics in a Southeastern Flood-Control Heservoir," Prof. Nieholas Aumen, department of biology, University of Mississippi. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Biologieal Sciences. 
8 p.m. Last lecture series continues in the library audito­rium with Professor Himes of the theology department. 
MENUS Notre Dame 
Chieken Homann Beef Stew/Biscuit Sea Strips Three Cheese Croissant 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
\J£'i (II,\..~ IN,  '(()l.l t.\l.lS\ BE.  'iO\J Ml:f>..N  
DIDNi iCl\J  ~t. 00\..'i ~'i  I'M ~'t:.  
S\@ \JP 10  W\.1() 0\l>t{T.  ONL'i ISO'i  
Plt>.'i 6f>.St.B/>.LL A.\ RKESS 7  M.L nit: 0'\\i~ t>.Rt PLI>.'iiNG IN -rnt. Bf>..CK.  ON f>.. Plt>.'IGRC\JNO {:IJ\.l Of  
t:'l t:\.D'S.  GIRlS.~"  

RE~.
OONO.' 

S\\lPIOII'i MR i=IUt.R!
l'M IN 

PRCC\J<X.S MR FILTER.'
COOTIE 
~N\1001>11:5.
CENTRAl..' 

I
I
I "11-~N'T 
~(>..\) ~i 
SOOTS.' 


ACROSS 24 Laundry appliance
1 Christie or 25 PrecedeKarenina 27 Kin of hurrahs 

5 Mosque priest 29 Disprove
9 Certain phantom's 

33 Simians 
haunt 37 Munched 14 Good soil 38 Spat 15 Houston-based 39 Fall back 
Govt. agency 41 Kind of race 16 He couldn't 42 Intern's milieu pass the bar 
43 Highland 17 Ancient Roman headgear road 
44 Bone: Comb. 19 Trick's form alternative 45 Insect's eye 20 City near 46 Monad Vesuv1us 
48 "I go to prepare 21 Hold up .":John 
23 Spreads hay 14:2 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

SPELUNKER

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CROSSWORD 
50 Race tracks  
55 N.C. cape  
58 Formicary  
dweller  
59 Writ no longer  
legal in England  
so Exec. branch of  
the U.S. Govt.  
62 Famous street in  
Rome  
64 Roi's mate  
65 Chase. the  
author  
66 Lulu  
67 Fund  
68 Meadows  
69 Twain or  
HopkinS  
DOWN  
1 Jerrold's "-­ 
of Plenty"  
2 Stock term  
3 Downy  
4 "A miss is as  
good as-"  
5 Taverns  22 City NE of Milano  34 Hide  
6 Fowl's crop  25 Celebration of a  35 Nobelist Wiesel  
7 "Red--is  sort  36 Oldest  
she": Coleridge  26 First. second or  independent  
8 Public official  reverse  country in  
9 Giant of a Giant  28 Milano's opera  Europe  
10 Italian Riviera  house  40 Procurer  
resort  30 Shoshone  41 Execrate  
11 Foil's cousin  Indians  43 Tangible  
12 Perused  31 Assay  47 Double agent  
13 Crafts' partner  32 Old tongue  49 "-Chorus" in  
18 Drome preceder  33 Curves  "II Trovatore"  



-
51 Poison 52 Rocket stage 53 Metric measure 54 Mute bird 55 Diet 56 Place west of 
Nod 57 Surrounded by 59 Gabor and 
Le Gallienne 61 Modern 63 Alias 
JAY HOSLER 


$5 general public $3 students/senior cititzens 
SUB Performing Arts sponsors The Notre Dame Student Players production of 

STUODIT UHIOH IOdD 

Reserved Seating Tickets
Thursday, April 26 thru Saturday, April 28 
are available at the 
7:30 p.m. Washington Hall Lafortune Student Center Box Office. 
.. 
~--------~---­
Sports
page 24 Tuesday, April 17, 1990 
Irish overcome adversity of loss of Danapilis~ Binkiewicz 
By MIKE KAMRADT from the MCC this year, so the Sports Writer Irish need to win their non-con­ference games against midwest 
Adversity. Some teams fear it, opponents. but the Notre Dame baseball The Irish were in Cincinnati, team thrives on it. OI-l to play Xavier in a four 
Head coach Pat Murphy fre­game set over the weekend. quently tells his team to expect After a 6-4 win on Saturday, it and be ready to adapt. The the yet another Irish game was Irish have done so in dealing washed out by a downpour. with the horrible weather this Notre Dame dropped Sunday's season and now they will have first game 3-2, but came back to face a new adversity: injury. to win 4-2 in eight innings in The Irish lost freshman right­the nightcap. In that game, se­fielder and .420-plus hitter Eric nior reliever Mike Coffey got Danapilis and first base­out of a bases loaded. one-out man/pitcher Joe Binkiewicz this jam in the seventh with a past weekend. strikeout and a groundout be­
The Irish still had a success­fore the Irish won it with two in
-ful Easter weekend as they won the eighth. four of five games. Last Yesterday was Dave Sinnes's Thursday, the Irish thumped day as the freshman hurled _a Purdue 14-?. Saturday the Irish one-hit gem. Sinnes lowered hts prevailed 6-4 over Xavier. After ERA to 0.55 and will be among a Sunday split, the lrish beat the leaders in the NCAA in that the Musketeers again yesterday category. He had a perfect 2-0. game through five innings and The Irish exacted sweet re­ended up facing only three bat­venge Thursday at Coveleski in ters over the minimum. In 33 cooking the Boilermakers. Mike innings he has struck out 42. Rotkis led the offense with a Sinnes got all the support he homer. double and three RBis. needed in the third. Cory Mee Craig Counsell chipped in three singled and moved to second on RBI's and Dave Sinnes chalked an error. Counsell moved him up the win on the mound. The over on a groundout and Dan win was pivotal to Notre Bautch drove him in with a sin­Dame's post-season hopes. gle. The Irish later picked up an There will be no automatic bid insurance tally. Chicago defeats North Stars, wins playoff series 4-3 
CHICAGO (AP) -Wayne Presley and Jeremy Roenick each scored a pair of rapid-fire goals in the second period Monday night and the Chicago Blackhawks rolled to a 5-2 vic­tory over the Minnesota North Stars to win their Norris Division semifinal series in seven games. 
The Blackhawks. the regular­season Norris champions, will open the division finals at home Wednesday night against the St. Louis Blues, who eliminated the Toronto Maple Leafs in five games. 
Presley tied the game 1-1 three minutes into the second period and put the Blackhawks ahead to stay at 4:06 with his fifth goal of the series. Both came from directly in front of goalie Jon Casey, the second on a short wrist shot during a de­layed penalty. 
Roenick knocked in his own second round at 12:41 for a 3-1 lead, then scored again at at 
14:06. giving him five goals for the series. 
Greg Millen, who was pulled for the third time in Game 6, was outstanding in goal for Chicago, stopping 30 of 32 shots. 
The Blackhawks were in trouble during the first period. They fell behind 1-0 on Don Barber's power-play goal, then went down two men when Keith Brown took a high-sticking major for cutting Barber at 
AP Photo 
14:51 and Denis Savard got a 
The Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Minnesota North Stars 5-2 last
major and was ejected for 
night to advance to the second round of the NHL playoffs. 
drawing blood when he high­sticked Neal Broten at 17:37. Savard's penalty at the start of 
game for the only goal of the 
.. 
the second period, but Barber opening period. Dave Manson That gave the North Stars a drew a hooking penalty 22 sec­
drew a cross-checking penalty chance to break the game open, onds into the period, short-cir­
at 8:47 and Barber tipped
but they failed to cash in. The cuiting the rest of the power Brian Bellows shot from the Blackhawks were two men play. 
point past Greg Millen at 9:02. 
short for 2:18, but the Bfatkhawks' penalty-killers, Once back at equal strength, The North Stars closed the urged on by ear-splitting cheers the Blackhawks took control gap to 4-2 when Ulf Dahlen frorri the sellout crowd, com­and put the game away with scored at 9:58 of the third pe­bined with Millen to keep their four-goal outburst. riod but any hopes of a late Minnesota from adding to its comeback were doused when lead. The North Stars capitalized Greg Gilbert added an insur­
There was 2:37 left on on their first power play of the ance goal with 2:50 to play. 


Something seems strange in first round of Bookstore 
Wait just a minute here. Something seems a little bit strange in this Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Commissioner Kevin McGee and some other Bookstore offi­cials play on a team called Jamere Jackson, Phil Sheridan and Three Other Guys Who Won't Score this Year. In its first round game on Ken Tysiac Wednesday, Jamere Jackson, Phil Sheridan and Three Other World of Sports Guys won 23-21 over a team named The Commissioner Likes to Beat Girls. 

Does anybody else smell a rat here? I can't say that I had the pleasure of seeing that game, but I'm sure those two teams battled tooth and nail right to the end. After all, the Bookstore Committee wouldn't fix games so its members could advance easily against a bunch of girls, would it? 
I don't know. What do you think? 
I suppose there is no great harm done even if the game was fixed, but it doesn't seem fair that the Bookstore offi­cials can play charades in their opening games while other teams must play their hearts out to advance to the second round. 
I just hope McGee and his friends haven't scheduled an­other Iaugher for their second round game. 
Remember when there were only three teams in the National Basketball Association? When year in and year out, the NBA title was won by either Boston, Los Angeles, or Philadelphia? 
Those days are over. A strong dose of parity has injected some life into the NBA, and as a result the first few rounds of the playoffs could be entertaining. The following teams, listed in order of relative strength, could challenge for the ti­tle. 
1. Detroit: Chances are, if you don't live in Detroit, 1) You hate the Pistons, and 2) You will be disappointed at the out­come of the playoffs this year. 
The Pistons have three excellent guards in Isiah Thomas, Vinnie Johnson and Joe Dumars, who should return from his an injury in time for the playoffs. They also have good strength up front and play great defense, but perhaps their greatest asset is their depth, a factor which always plays a key role come playoff time. 
2. 
The Los Angeles Lakers: Last year injuries to Byron Scott and Magic Johnson doomed the Lakers, but this year's club looks healthy. The only real weakness here is the lack of a true center now that Kareem Abdul-Jabbar has finally re­tired. 

3. 
Utah: The Mailman, Karl Malone, is a force, and John Stockton may be the best passer in the league, but a lack of outside shooting could doom the Jazz if and when they play the Lakers. 

4. 
Chicago: Michael Jordan can't carry the Bulls to the championship all by himself. Scottie Pippen, Horace Grant 


see HOOPS I page 17 








