

VOL. XXIII NO. 43 
THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 1, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Prisoners' day celebration 
5 thousand people rallied in the ?enter of Moscow two days ago in support of political prisoner's day. 
People carrymg old Russ1an Emp1re flags and portraits of Lenin's face blanked out are shown. 
At least 24 die in Indian violence as Hindu fundamentalists storm shrine 
AYODHYA, India (AP) -the rioters. At least two of the confidence scheduled for Nov. Thousands of Hindu fundamen­injured died Wednesday, doc­7. talists failed in a new attempt tors said. Singh's attempts to ride the 
W1~dnesday to storm an ancient Press Trust of India said at religious and political crisis re­shrine daimcd by Moslems, and least 22 other people were ceived another setback at least 24 more people died in killed in street battles between Wednesday, when the deputy viohmce sparkPd by the dispute. Hindus and Moslems in four minister for sports, Bhakta 
A government minister re­widely separated cities. Charan Das, resigned to protest signed to protest Prime Minister the police action at Ayodhya. V P. Singh's attempts to block In Washington, State Das, a Hindu, accused Singh 
construction of a Hindu temple Department spokeswoman in his resignation letter of "lack on the disputPd site, deepening Margaret Tutwiler said the of foresightedness" in tackling the crisis in his beleaguered administration is "very dis­the crisis. 
coalition. tressed by the violence and loss 
Armed paramilitary troops of life and we hope that this The dispute also triggered vi­bloeked about 5,000 Hindus crisis can be averted without olence in neighboring from attempting to re-enter the further bloodshed." Bangladesh, an Islamic nation, mosque in Ayodhya, which has The dispute has killed at least where Moslem mobs attacked been the center of a decades-old 170 people in the past eight temples and Hindu shops and dispute between India's Hindu days and pushed Singh's 11-homes after hearing of the sit­majority and Moslem minority. month-old government to the uation in Ayodhya. Authorities verge of collapse. The Hindu clamped curfews in the capital Hindu fundamentalists broke fundamentalist Bharatiya Dhaka and the port city of 
through police cordons on Janata Party withdrew support Chittagong to curb rioting. Tuesday and chipped away from the governing coalition In Ayodhya, volunteers of the bricks and bits of plaster from last month to protest govern­fundamentalist World Hindu 
the one-story mosque, which ment policy on the temple pro­Council said they would make they want to replace with a ject. another attempt to storm the temple. mosque on Thursday. Officials 
At least five Hindus were The desertion left Singh without said they had information that killed and 20 injured when po­a majority in Parliament, but he hundreds of Hindus would try lice opened fire to throw back has said he will win a vote of to enter the town at night. 
Sale of 'cause' T-shirts raise money for accident victim; new version now for sale 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN In addition to the sales on campus outlets. 
News Writer campus, an 800 number was The Bookstore, Alumni 
established to take phone Association, Information Desk, 
orders. 4000 more shirts were and the Hockey ProShop will 
The story of the "T-shirt with sold this way raising the total be selling the shirts and a eause" which surrounded the to nearly $100,000. "The sup­featuring the short-sleeved Notre Dame-Miami football port of the Notre Dame com­version with the final 29-20 game is not over. munity has been overwhelm­score on the front. 1-800-345­
ing," said Joe Cassidy, Notre 5027 is still taking orders for The game commemorative Dame director of student activ­the T-shirt, as well. shirt. created by the Notre ities, 
Dame student body to raise For those still interested in In addition to the T-shirts, money for a hit and run victim buying a "Cause" T-shirt, they watch for order forms that will graduate student, sold out be­will be on sale "until the soon hit campus for the 
fore kickoff on October 20. bottom falls out and the 
"Cause" sweatshirt that bears 
About 20,000 T-shirts were demand no longer exists," says the original T-shirt design. This pre-pay, pre-order option
bf}Ught in a span of two weeks, Cassidy. Cassidy hopes that by creating nearly $85,000 in the end of the week both long is open only to students and profit. All of this will be donated and short sleeve versions of the faculty of Notre Dame and St. to the victim. shirt will be available at all on Mary's. 
Soviets announce new program for economy 
Palestinian family gives the victory salute in an expression of defiance after their home was completely destroyed by Israeli soldiers Tuesday, in the West Bank town of Sinjil. 
MOSCOW (AP) The Russian parliament voted Wednesday to start a 500-day transition to a market economy on Thursday, putting it on a collision course with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and the national legislature. 
Gorbachev and the Supreme Soviet legislature agreed Oct. 19 on a compromise economic rescue plan that is slower and less radical than the 500-day plan. 
Russia, the largest of the 15 Soviet republics, has declared sovereignty from the central Soviet government. It claims the right to put its own economic reform plan into effect on its territory, which covers two-thirds of the Soviet land mass. 
It is unclear who will be obeyed if the Russian government. led by Gorbachev's leading political rival, Boris N. Yeltsin, gives economic orders that contradict the national government. 
Already, the central gov­ernment has warned bank officials they will be fired if they carry out a new Russian republic law creating independent banks, according to Deputy Russian Premier Gennady Filshin. 
The Russian parliament also challenged the Kremlin by claiming control over the 
republic's natural resources and other assets, including state institutions and construction projects, Tass reported. 
It said the legislation was intended to "lay the foundations for the republic's economic sovereignty." The bill says the Russian government has the right to accredit foreign firms and control imports and exports from its territory. 
The parliament voted 155 to nine with two abstentions to begin implementing the 500­day plan on Thursday, but it did not approve any specific steps. It had previously approved the plan on Sept. 11. 
Ivan Silaev, the republic's prime minister, told parliament that a series of proposed laws would be drafted within the next three weeks. 
"Really, all this means is they have started the clock ticking and underlined their determination to go ahead" with the 500-day plan, said Shod Muladzhanov, a political commentator for the newspaper Moskovskaya Pravda. 
"I spent the whole day here asking people what concrete steps they planned to take, and no one could give me an answer," he added, gesturing from a balcony overlooking the parliament's marble meeting hall. 
.-. 

-
AP Photo 

1"""'-----~------~----------------o------------~---~------------~­
Thursday, November 1, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
ND must learn to live in a glass house 
Returning to Notre Dame as a junior, I thought I knew a fair amount about the character of this in­stitution. But more than once this year news commentaries 

WEATHER 


Yesterday's high: 7 4 Yesterday's low: 50 Nation's high: 93 (Coolidge, Ariz.) Nation's low: 1 3 (Pinedale, Wyo.) 
Forecast: 

Mostly sunny and warm 
Thursday. Highs in the 
middle 70s. Mostly clear 
and milder Thursday 
night. Lows from the 
upper 40s to about 50. 
Partly sunny and 
FRONTS: continued warm Friday. Highs from the lower to middle 70s . COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
concerning Notre K hi W I h 
Dame have surprised at een e S 
m~ver the summer. Asst. Viewpoint Editor when the steroids issue surfaced, one media person commented that when you live in a glass house, you have to expect a few stones hurled your way. He went on to call Notre Dame the "quintessential glass house." More recently, the media has made com­ments similar to the line that opened a Chicago Tribune article following the Stan­, ford game, "The Irish are mere mortals." Perhaps these comments are just sensa­tionalized news lead-ins, yet they may give rise to some interesting reflections on our part with respect to our public and private identity. Why do those who deliver such news about us to the public seem to delight in any opportunity to criticize us? Lou Holtz said in a press conference that to get the number one ranking we have to win consistently and convincingly, implying that perhaps we are judged on a different, more difficult stan­dard than other teams. So, even in our achievements, it seems our critics are exceedingly unmerciful on the football field and, I would suggest, in a gen­eral response to Notre Dame. The "glass house" analogy is a useful one when one tries to understand these outsider reactions to Notre Dame. Perhaps we could excuse this anti-NO sentiment as sore­losership on the part of members of the public and media that have loyalties to other schools and want to see the long-time winning team lose a few. But I am inclined to see this issue in a broader light, where the media commentary on football is just one example of a broader-based sentiment. I don't think people would disagree if I said that religion and morality are a large part of our identity both as we see it, and as it is seen from the outside. We have seldom attempted to hide our positions on moral is­sues. And these are often stances that, in this age of conformity, make a lot of people uncomfortable. Our openness with respect to our morality and, as a result, our vulnerability to the scrutiny and criticism of others lend them­selves to the glass house analogy. Yet, to live in a glass house is frightening because it feels like one small stone could shatter that whole image which is so much a part of us. While so many are throwing stones, the last thing we want to do is give them ammunition to be used against us. I think this is why our own behavior, as stu­dents, is so important. As an institution, we are frequently and poignantly reminded of our failures. Still, at Notre Dame we ought to realize that it is better to be dwellers in the glass house than stone throwers. · 


-Ih-e-O.bse..~~er­
----. -.a.~•~ -. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Today's Staff: (219)-239-7471 
Sports Systems
News 

Rich Kurz Cesar Capella 
PeteYob 

Scoreboard: Gil Gomez
Siobhan McCarthy 

Dave McMahon Business
Accent 

Production Monica Yant 
Shonda Wilson 

Kelly Lynch Alicia Reale 
Stephanie Snyder 
Santiago Wong 
Cristina Ortiz 

Lisa Eaton Graphics Bradford BoehmAd Design 
VIewpoint
Kerry Clair 

David Certo Circulation
Maria Blohm 

Kathy Welsh Chris Hanely 
Tony Paganelli 

Allison lima Lu Medeiros
Amy Eckert 
CaraEckman 

Pressure 
® (f) ~" ~ []] ~ rn 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
"The Nuts and Bolts of Applying to Graduate School," a workshop for seniors, at 4:30 p.m., today in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 
Take Back the Night March-A candlelight procession to bear witness to the fact that people do not feel safe walking alone. Meet in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall at 8 p.m. 
Clubs, Organizations & Departments-­Information for the Spring Calendar of Events (Daily Shillelagh) is due in the Student Activities Office, on Friday, Nov. 2. Please include the name of the event, date, time, place and sponsoring organization or department. 
Off-Campus Students may pick up phone books at the Student Government Secretary's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune, Monday-Friday from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
WORLD 

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak warned Wednesday that the Persian Gulf crisis "could explode at any time." Mubarak urged "our Iraqi brothers" to realize the danger in which they have placed the Middle East. Egypt has contributed 16,000 troops, and Baghdad has 460,000 troops in southern Iraq and occupied 

Kuwait. Mubarak's warning came a day after Iraqi President Saddam Hussein reportedly told his military commanders the United States might attack Iraq within 
days and to prepare for battle. 
INDIANA 

Two people were killed and a teen-age girl narrowly escaped injury in three separate St. John, Indiana shootings that Lake County police believe could be linked.St. John Police Chief Bernie 
Johnsen said information provided by a 17-year­old girl who escaped unharmed from the second shooting led him to believe that one gunman might have been responsible for all three shoot­ings Tuesday night. The first shots were fired about 8:45 p.m. Tuesday An hour and a half later, Rhonda Lee Hammersley, 25, was shot to death while taking to a co-worker outside the store. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Senior Father-Daughter Registration in Haggar Game Room is 6-8 p.m. tonight. Please have all table assignments turned in. 
University Computing Open House­University Computing invites ND/SMC faculty, students and staff to an open house featuring the nine computer clusters. Nov. 2, from 2-4 p.m. in the lobby of the Computing Center/Math Building. Cake and refreshments. 
Urban Plunge Extended Deadline-Today is the last day to turn in Urban Plunge registrations. Registrations information is available at both Campus Ministry offices and the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame. At Saint Mary's: Campus Ministry at 161 Regina Hall, and Justice Education at 128 Madaleva Hall. This is an opportunity to participate in a 48 hour learning experience in an inner city near you during the week of Jan. 5-12 during Christmas break. 
The Hispanic American Organization will hold a meeting this Thursday, at 7:30 p.m. in Farley Hall's basement. Details for the upcoming dance will be discussed. 
A Chilean bodyguard for President Patricio Aylwin was accidentally shot and seriously wounded by a col­league Wednesday night at the underground parking lot in the presidential palace, police said. The accident oc­curred as the presidential bodyguards were getting out of their vehicles after bringing Aylwin back to palace from an official ceremony at a Santiago suburb, officers said. "The firearm of a member of the security detail acciden­tally went off, wounding police officer Rosbel Garcia," said a brief communique issued by police. Garcia was rushed to a nearby hospital for surgery. His condition was described as serious. 
MARKET UPDATE 

+ 0.09 + 0.06 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,442.33 + 5.69 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.40 to $381.30/oz. Sliver + 6.3¢ to $4.153/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On Nov.1: 

etn 1512: Michelangelo's paintings on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel were first exhib­ited to the public. 
etn 1755: A devastating earthquake and its aftershocks killed about 50,000 people in Lisbon, Portugal. 
etn 1765: The Stamp Act went into effect, prompting stiff resistance from American colonists. 
etn 1913: Notre Dame's 
football team upset Army 35-13 
in a game at West Point that 
popularized the forward pass, 
and brought attention to Notre 
Dame's team captain, Knute 
Rockne. 

---------~--~ -----~~-~---~-------~-------------·...,l 
Thursday, November 1, 1990 
The Observer page 3 
Bookfair held to benefit I 
I

education organization 1 I 

By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 

The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) will be holding a bookfair on November 2 and November 5-8 in Havican Hall on Saint Mary's campus. 
According to Terri Kosik, the ECDC, a non-profit organization, is holding the bookfair to earn money to purchase educational and classroom materials. The or­ganization will be selling chil­dren's literature as well as nonfiction books and books for older adults. World Book Encyclopedia's and Atlas' will also be available. 
Kosik also said Discovery Toys can be purchased. "(These toys) are educational, manipulative toys that foster cognitive development," she 
said. 

Office of University Computing Campus Clusters learn more about the computer labs through a computerized presentation starring the Macintosh NOVEMBER 2 2-4 PM IN THE LOBBY OF THE COMPUTING CENTER/MATH BUILDING -free t-shirts -ceremony at 2:30 -cake and refreshments  

The fair began about five years ago because there was a need to provide quality litera­ture for children, according to Kosik. "It's really hard for par­ents to find... award winning books locally." She said that award winning books were available in libraries but not in stores. 
She also said, "(The bookfalr) is a way we (ECDC) can raise money and provide a valuable service to families." ECDC will receive thirty percent of the proceeds from the bookfair. 
Kosik said reading to children is the "best pre-academic" activity parents can engage in. Although she does not suggest that parents should stop buying toys, she explained, " We're trying to offer an option to toys." 
The bookfair will be held from 7:30a.m. to 5:30p.m. 
Careers to be focus of showcase 
BY SUSAN MINAHAN 
News Writer 
"Showcase '90: Spotlighting Career and Employment Choices," will provide students and faculty the opportunity to meet over 40 representatives from various corporations, non­profit organizations, graduate schools, and government agencies tonight from 3 to 5:30 p.m. 
According to Jeffrey Roberts, Assistant Director of the Counseling and Career Development Center and Coordinator of Placement Services, the Showcase is an excellent way for students to become acquainted with in­ternship and occupational op­portunities, build professional networks, and obtain informa­tion on particular organiza­tions. 
Approximately 12 represen­tatives are Saint Mary's alum­nae, and six are fathers of Saint Mary's students. IBM, Price Waterhouse, the Food and Drug Administration, Holy Cross Associates, and Arthur Andersen & Co. number among the guest organizations. 
According to Hoberts the Showcase is one of the biggest events offered during the year because it not only provides a clear idea of the opportunities available to students following graduation, but it is an excel­lent way to gain respect from the employment sector as well. 
Volunteer. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 


Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-992.5 

page4 The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1990 

BOSTON (AP) -College Board trustees announced Wednesday the most sweeping changes ever in the Scholastic Aptitude Test, adding some math questions that aren't mul­tiple choice and introducing optional essay questions. 
Board officials rejected sug­gestions that charges of cul­tural bias prompted the revi­sions in the test used heavily in deciding who gets into what college. 
The new Scholastic Aptitude Test, called SAT-I, will be in­troduced in the spring 1994, said College Board President Donald M. Stewart. 
In the language section, em­phasis· on reading comprehen­sion will be increased. Students will be allowed to use calcula­tors in the math section. 
The revisions are aimed in part at reducing students' re­liance on test coaches, Stewart said at the board's annual meeting. 
Critics have long charged that the SAT -the most widely used college entrance exam ­was biased, particularly against women and minorities. 
"Nothing could be further from the truth," Stewart said. "The SAT has been in almost c.ontinual evolution. It has never been set in concrete. 
"The new SAT will combine the high, academically demanding standards of the current tests with revisions that increase their educational relevance and quality for all college-bound students." 
The old SAT had 85 verbal and 60 math questions. The SAT-I will have 75-85 verbal and 55-60 math questions. 
The new math questions re­quiring students to produce an answer rather than choose one from a list will make up about 20 percent of the math section. 
The changes also include the introduction of the optional SAT-II, an expansion of the achievement tests that some schools presently give in addi­tion to the SAT to help gain admission to some colleges. 
SAT-II will include a written essay section, language profi­ciency tests for native speakers 
.\.Group for 

GillyI :Lcs;~@i1~lihl11 Jl:I,ltl ']31;t~::n.1<llR &:trm rdht l1il. \r~? 
DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 
.F!It:·.rrrl'i:y, jJ::tl~l §~<!llfif 
Monthly General Meeting 
Sunday, 4 November 1990 
Student Discussion Group 
Every Tuesday Night 
and Faculty/Staff Discussion Group 
Every Wednesday Night 
of Japanese and Chinese, and proficiency tests for non-native English speakers. 
Observers had predicted the essay would be included in the main SAT. But Gregory Anrig, president of the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J., which administers the test, said field trials showed an essay would make the exam too long. 
Bob Schaeffer, a spokesman for the group FairTest and co­author of the book "Standing up to the SAT," said the changes fail to solve the prob­lem of the test's bias. 
"The new SAT amounts to little more than rearranging the deck chairs on an educational Titanic," Schaeffer said. "The SAT should be optional and it should be comprehensively overhauled to address its prob­lems." 
FairTest and other critics have claimed that the SAT tends to cover subjects that white male and affluent test­takers are more likely to be familiar with. 
Our monthly General Meetings are a chance for everyone in our group to get together and discuss upcoming projects, lectures, and events in a friendly and unthreat­ening forum. Alo;,g with provid­ing an opportunity to plan and an­nounce group activities, the General Meetings are also a time tc1 meet other people like yourself 
Our Discussion Groups providt• 11 group of peers to discuss the tSSlie~ of being gay, lesbian, or bisexu,,J in a world that often misunderstand~ homosexual people. The Discus­sion Groups sometimes have a top· ic or theme, but people are ;1)way~ free to talk about whatever they are feeling. 
The Student Discussion Group is meeting weekly, every Tuesday night. A Faculty/Staff Discussion Group is now forming, with meet­ings on Wednesday nights. 
For more information on any of these meetings, or what our group is all about, please call one of the numbers listed below. 


For more information. cul1 M1kc 2J7.078X 
Ca.rol232·3330 jol'm 259·3157 

Stanford band can't play after it offends audience 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) ­Stanford University's marching band won't be marching for a while after offending Oregonians with a halftime spoof of the spotted owl timber controversy. 
The "Incomparable Leland Stanford Junior University Marching Band," known for shows that poke oflbeat fun at current events, was banned from the field for one game be­cause of a weekend perfor­mance in Eugene, Oregon. 
Offended spectators from the University of Oregon booed and Stanford's own supporters swamped its athletic depart­ment with angry telephone complaints. 
The band Saturday took on the northern spotted owl, a threatened species at the center of a bitter battle between the logging industry and environmentalists. Measures to protect the owl's habitat in the old growth forests of the Pacific Northwest are opposed by loggers who say their livelihood is threatened. 
"Trees and spotted owls are disappearing like crazy and ev­erybody wants to know why," the announcer said during the halftime show. 
"Mr. Spotted Owl! Mr. Spotted Owl! Your environment has been destroyed, your home is now a roll of Brawny (paper towels) and your family has flown the coop," the announcer continued. "What are you going to do? 'Me, I'm going to Disneyland!' " 
Band members spelled out "spot," then formed "pot" on the field. 
Slogans and signs at demon­strations over the owl contro­versy often depict the threat­ened bird as a menu item. 
The Oregon Ducks and their fans were not amused by the show. 

is currently looking for interested people to fill the following paid position: 
Typesetter 
for the late shift on Wednesdays 
Computer experience is necessary, preferrably on the Macintosh. If interested, contact Bernard Brenninkmeyer at The Observer office at 239-5303 
................. 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED 
NOVEMBER 1 
Because of M & M -Midterms/Miami Registration/Information Available NOTRE DAME: -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry: ·Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library -Dorm Representatives 
SAINT MARY'S: -Office of Justice Education 128/159 Madaleva Hall -Campus Ministry_ 161 Regina Hall 


Thursday, November 1, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Canadian government will ignore U.S. Cuban trade bill 
,, $,· , . .,; 

~ *' ':~ ·<\t··~ 
~:--;(. ', ~­
.I 
AP Photo 

Homeless children 
Two children sleep while hugging each other to keep warm on a street in downtown Lima, Peru, three blocks from the government palace. More than 400 homeless children live on the streets of Peru. 
New York Daily News strike grows; gains momentum as more unionist join walkout 
NEW YORK (AP) -More than 500 unionists joined striking Daily News workers Wednesday at a raucous, old-fashioned labor rally outside the News building, portraying the newspaper battle as a fight to save all unions. 
Pickets were buoyed when News columnist Jack Newfield, a management employee with ties to the city' unions, resigned. He took a job at the New York Observer. 
"If this strike succeeds, it's because the whole city is behind us," said News feature writer Nancy Stedman. "It's now about the survival of unions." 
Also on Wednesday, Daily News publisher James Hoge met with Mayor David Dinkins to discuss Dinkins' suggestions about resolving the strike. 
Hoge, who earlier this week declined to attend a meeting with Dinkins and union repre­sentatives, said he would not consider any of the mayor's suggestions until "terrorism by union members" against news­stand operators stops. 
The mayor would not reveal to reporters his suggestions to Hoge. 
The strike of eight unions be­gan Oct. 25. The Newspaper Guild, representing reporters and other editorial employees, joined the strike the next day, following months of negotia­tions over contracts that ex­pired in March. 
The unions charged unfair labor practices following an in­cident that prompted some drivers to walk out of the News' Brooklyn printing plant. The drivers led the strike hours later. 
OTTAWA (AP) -The gov­ernment on Wednesday ordered Canadian companies to ignore a 
U.S. bill that would prohibit them from trading with Cuba, External Affairs Minister Joe Clark said. 
The U.S. proposal has cleared both houses of Congress and needs only presidential ap­proval to become law. Proposed by Sen. Connie Mack, D-Fia., and known as the Mack amendment, it would make it il­legal for U.S. subsidiaries abroad to do business with Cuba. 
"This is an intrusion into Canadian sovereignty," Clark said, adding that diplomatic pressure and protests of the bill have had no effect. 
The order prevents Canadian subsidiaries from complying with the Mack bill -if it be­comes law-and forces them to notify the government of any instructions or directives they receive that relate to the mea­sure. 
"This action demonstrates our determination to block measures that infringe on Canadian sovereignty," said Justice Minister Kim Campbell. "It is the government of Canada which makes the laws and policies that govern inter­national trade and commerce by Canada-based companies." 
The Bush administration has opposed the amendment, but it is attached as a rider to legisla­tion the president wants, in­cluding measures to implement the trade embargo against Iraq for its invasion of Kuwait. 
The bill has not yet reached the White House and may not for a few days, a White House official said. Once it is received, the president has 10 days to sign it or veto it. 
Derek Burney, Canadian am­bassador in Washington, said this week he doesn't know whether Bush will sign the bill. 
"The complication for them is how they weigh ... their support for our known view, against the broader interest that this bill is intended to serve," Burney said. 
Canadian subsidiaries that would be affected by the bill did about $26 million of business with Cuba last year. 
Canada and the United States have been feuding over trade with Cuba since the early 1960s, when the Americans banned trade with Havana and first sought to extend the pro­hibition to subsidiaries of U.S. firms. 
The Canadian order, an­nounced by Clark and Justice Minister Kim Campbell, is the first to be issued under 1984 legislation known as the Foreign Extra-territorial Measures Act. 

Security Council puts Iraqi assets in escrow 
W ALUMNI.,••~.,._,.,., SENIOR I{, ·~l(~.,lft'UW%1.~·. 

1fJeded S~ Au ~I
~CLUB 

Thursday Friday Saturday 
Don't Lunch 11-2 join the forget Grad Social Draft... your Hour 5-9 cup! "ARMED "BASEBALL'' FORCES" CUP NIGHT NIGHT NIGIIT 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Security Council's next move against Baghdad is a resolution that would put Iraq's frozen assets into an escrow account to pay for war damages, U.S. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering said Wednesday. 
Pickering told reporters the resolution would allow Iraqi funds and property frozen for the duration of the crisis to be put into a "compensation ac­count." 
The assets from each coun­try's escrow account would not be divided until the crisis has run its course, because there is no way of assessing total costs until then. 
On Monday, the Security Council voted to hold Iraq liable for human rights abuses and war damages during its occu­pation of Kuwait. But that res­olution did not contain a means of distributing Iraqi funds. The new resolution apparently would provide such a mecha­nism. 
Pickering said the council could begin deliberating the measure later this week or early next week. 


NOTRE DAMEIS ANNUAL CAMPUS-WIDE DEBATE SERIES 
INTERESTED IN MEMBERSHIP ON THE ICEBERG DEBATES STANDING COMMIITEE? 
ICEBERG DEBATES~ 
WE NEED PEOPLE IN THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
PUBLIC RELATIONS  ADVERTISING  
DORM LIASON  ARTWORK  
SCHEDULING  POLICY ANALYST  

APPLICATIONS AVAILABE IN SECRETARY'S OFFICE 
rJ 
2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. DUE NOV. 5th BY 5 PM .-mv~ 
He becomes president of the council for the month of November, with powers to sway the pace of negotiations and help set the body's priorities. 
Pickering alluded to the escrow account plan Monday, when he told the Security Council that Iraq would be li­able for full compensation for the losses and damages it has caused by its illegal invasion and occupation of Kuwait. 
Iraq has about $4 billion in overseas assets, of which about $800 million are in America. That money could be used to help rebuild Kuwait if its gov­ernment is restored after an Iraqi withdrawal. 


-~~ ----~ --~----~~---~· ~ ---~-~~ -------~~· 
page 6 The Observer 

AP Photo 

Strong arm of the law 
A policeman grasps a passenger of a mini-bus Monday after the police seized two vehicles and assaulted the occupants outside a hostel. 
Anxious hostage families worry a_bout fate and condition of relatives held in captivity 
(AP)-Simple daily rituals are growing more difficult for Margaret Williams, whose son and daughter-in-law are among Saddam Hussein's "human shields." 
She sets the dinner table and recalls a month-old letter smuggled out of Iraq in which her son says food is growing scarce. She pulls an electric blanket down from the closet and thinks of the desert win­ter's unforgiving cold. 
"It's awfully hard to do these things when you know your kids are suffering," Mrs. Williams said Wednesday from Germantown, Tenn. "We've just got to help these people out." 
Spirits were boosted late Wednesday by a report that Baghdad officials had promised that the families of American hostages in Iraq would be of­fered an opportunity to see videotaped messages from their loved ones. 
Anxious relatives were some­what less enthusiastic about another offer from the Iraqi government: to let them come visit Saddam's "guests" over the Christmas and New Year's holidays. 
"It's probably just another psychological ploy," said Dawn Bazner, whose husband was videotaped early in the crisis asking Saddam to let foreign women and children go. ''I'm hoping that we won't have to visit (my husband) there ... but if it comes down to it, I will go." 
''I'd like to see a video of him, sure," said Doris Whatley of Shreveport, La., whose husband was last reported at an Iraqi military installation. "But what I really want is for him to come home ... where he's safe." 
The families of many hostages held in Iraq and Kuwait have repeatedly called the Kuwaiti Task Force at the State Department in recent weeks to express concerns about the conditions under which their loved ones are living. 
"We are looking into the pos­siblilty of sending packages to our embassy in Baghdad to be forwarded to the Iraqi govern­ment, which would then hope­fully forward them to the hostages," said Diane Salisbury, a task force spokeswoman. 
Similar attempts have been made to get letters to hostages, but Ms. Salisbury said the pro­cess was complicated and the results unclear. She also said it was not necessarily possible or advisable to make contact with Americans in hiding. 
"In any case," she said, "we are holding the Iraqis account­able for taking care of the hostages -whether or not they receive packages from home." 
Donnita Cole isn't willing to leave the situation up to the 

~­
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
University of Notre Dome Notre Dome. IN 46556 
Library Concourse 219•239-6536 

Vigil ofAll Saints: 
Sacred Heart Church 
Feast ofAll Saints: 
Sacred Heart Church: 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt: 
Refer to your residence hall bulletin board for scheduled masses in the dorm. 
Werlllesrlay, October 31, 1990 
Vigil Mass 5:15pm 
Thursday, November 1, 1990 
Mass 11:30am Solemn Mass 5:00pm 
Music provided by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
Masses 6:30am 7:15am 10:00am 
12:10pm 7:00pm 

----~-~--~-.... 
Thursday, November 1, 1990 
Shuttle Atlantis lift-off delayed by Air Force 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The Air Force on Wednesday delayed Atlantis' classified flight next week because of problems with a spy satellite aboard the shftttle. 
"Details are classified, and it is too early to predict a new launch date," the Air Force said in a two-sentence statement. 
The Air Force described the problem as "anomalies discovered during cargo testing." Capt. Marty Hauser, a Pentagon spokesman in Washington, refused to say when the problem was detected and declined to discuss the flight further. 
Sources speaking on condition of anonymity have said the satellite was to spy on Iraq. 
Top NASA managers on Tuesday scheduled Atlantis' launch for Nov. 9. The shuttle was cleared for flight following a fueling test last week that found it free of dangerous hydrogen leaks. 
A fueling test on Tuesday cleared the shuttle Columbia for a December astronomy 
mission. NASA spokeswoman Lisa Malone said it was too soon to know whether that mission would be affected by Atlantis' delay. 
"We don't know how to set dates or how to plan" because the extent of the problem the satellite aboard Atlantis is un­known, she said. 
Sources estimated the delay would be one to two weeks. 
It is the seventh shuttle flight dedicated entirely to the Defense Department. Two more Defense Department missions are planned, both next year, but their cargoes are unclassified. 
"The bottom line is it's no longer affordable" to maintain secure operations for a mission, said a Pentagon official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The delay was disappointing news for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which had been hoping to close the year with six shuttle flights. NASA had planned for nine missions this year, but was plagued by hydro­gen leaks on Columbia and then on Atlantis. 
The name of the event is 
ART EXPO 190 
and we (SUB) want to invite all campus and off-campus artistically inclined people (including faculty) to participate by submitting 2-D or 3-D original works. Sign-ups are Nov. 5th, 6th in SUB office from 3-5, or call239-7757. 


. 1100on Hall 219·239·52<2 ;-;Fe':'-'a':';s"-tD~af,y-;;M~a~s~sbes:!____---:-::-:---:--~--:---:-------­


Business 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Business Editor 
ND Video will tentatively open for business in mid-November in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
Containing 300 titles, mostly new releases, ND Video will be targeted primarily to the stu­dent body, but will be accessible to the faculty and staff as well. There will be an initial member­ship fee of $5 and membership this semester will also include a free video rental coupon. 
Hegular rental fees will be $2 per tape per night. 
Steve Perkins, a senior busi­ness major, will manage the store that will occupy the space 
•acated by The Cellar record 
store. The Student Business Boar 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The new budget carries a pledge from top Democratic lawmak­ers to try to spend billions of dollars more for black colleges and inner-city programs. It also makes it easier for Holo­caust survivors to get Medicaid nursing-home aid. 
Other provisions only now coming to light in the massive deficit-reduction measure lay aside assistance for Americans fleeing Iraq and Kuwait, create a cash award named after a House committee chairman for protecting coastal land, and provide money for certain cen­ters to treat patients with AIDS 
which will oversee ND Video costs. The $12,000 that ND or Alzheimer's disease. operations, decided last May to Video will receive is the "bare The items are among many change the focus of the store bones" amount of money little-noticed details lawmakers from records to videos. At that needed to cover costs, said stuffed into the package of tax time, Perkins was manager of Perkins. "We plan to spend increases and spending cuts The Cellar. roughly $10,000 on the pur­that Congress passed Saturday 
When the Student Business chase of videos and the other before adjourning for the year. Board approached Perkins with $2,000 on other miscellaneous The measure was the main the idea of incorporating videos expenses such as advertising thrust of an effort to slash the along with compact disks at and video cases," he said. federal deficit by $496 billion The Cellar, Perkins proposed over the next five years. that the store move to an all­Perkins is counting largely on Hiding obscure provisions in video format instead. membership fees to generate major bills has become such an 
NO Video is funded by a capital in the very beginning. art form in Washington that $6,600 grant, $6,000 of which ND Video will be operated by gadfly Rep. Curt Weldon, R-Pa., was carried over from funds the Notre Dame Student Busi­is offering dinner for two at a for The Cellar, and a $5,400 ness Board, which also oper­Capitol Hill restaurant for any­loan from Notre Dame Student ates two other LaFortune­one who brings one to his at­Government. The $5,400 loan is based businesses-Irish Gar­tention that benefits five or significantly less than the dens and Adworks. The board's fewer people. $9,000 Perkins was seeking function is to provide services "The clever way the language earlier in the semester. to the student body while also is written, you might never even 
Perkins initially requested 'Providing valuable work experi­see it or realize it's there," $15,000 to cover start-up ence for students. Weldon complained Werlnesday. 
No one has yet unearthed a 
provision in the budget that 
benefits such a small number of 
people. But there are items that 
target particular groups or lo­
cales. 
The report accompanying the 
bill contains an unusual 
promise by Democratic con­
gressional leaders to try to in­
crease federal spending for mi­
norities by at least $8.8 billion 
over the next three years. 
The leaders promise an effort to target science and energy re­search and education initiatives to traditionally black and His­panic colleges and universities. They say they will try to set up a new federally backed bond program for new construction at the schools, of which there are about 120, mostly in the South. 
The Democrats also say they will try to increase spending on foreign aid to Africa; housing; urban development; education, health, child-care and anti­gang programs in inner cities; welfare; job training and veter­ans. 
House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., said Tuesday that the language had nothing to do with the hunt Democratic leaders made last week for support for the bud­get, which the House approved 228-200. 


Save yourself the hassle of waiting in lon lines!! 

• h 
12:30-5:30 friday and saturday Z83-4Z4Z Visa/MC Accepted 
--~---­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 1, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 

News Edltor •.•.................... Kelley Tuthill VIewpoint Editor .........•....• Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..•........•.••....•• Greg Guffey Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ••••••••••••.••••.....•.. Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor .•••••.•Corinne Pavlis 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 

Advertising Manager ..•.•...• Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager •••••••••••• Amy Eckert Production Manager ......•••••••Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr ••.•Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director •••••••••••.•........Dan Shinnick Controller...........••••••••••••Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does n~t necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op!nion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ed1tor, V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and lns1de Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 
"Take Back the Night March" regains human right to safety 
Dear Editor: 
At schools large and small, urban and rural, Midwestern or in New York, one out of seven female students is a victim of rape. When incidents of sexual assault are added, the statistic rises to a frightening one in three. Unfortunately, Notre Dame is no exception. 
In response to this, Women United for Justice and Peace, the Center for Social Concerns, Democratic Socialists of America, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination and student government are sponsoring a "Take Back the Night March." The purpose of this march is to illuminate the areas on campus where women no longer feel safe walking alone. 
An open invitation is extended to all people. who wish to bear witness to this gross injustice. A basic human right is removed when one is no longer free to walk safely. The march is tonight, Nov. 1, at 8 
p.m. It will be a candlelit procession through campus, from O'Shaugnessy to Saint Mary's road. Please come. 
Erin O'Neill Women United for Justice and Peace Oct. 31. 1990 

Observer prints tasteless photo 
Dear Editor: 
I had hoped that The Observer staff, after their re­r cent blunder in covering Notre r Dame's Multicultural Fall Festival (The Observer, Oct. 1), would find it prudent to be more sensitive about what it prints! This they proved wrong 
~ 
r 
by printing the tasteless AP photo of a dwarf-throwing con­test in The Observer, Oct. 15. When will the editors learn what is, and what is not, ap­propriate? 
Emily Neufeld Lewis Hall Oct. 15, 1990 

EltVATOR '/ /
.: ' I 
I 
. f 

II 
. 


1
UI 
1
I I ,. 
Ij 
. ! / . ~ . . 
I 
. 
~ 
/
I 

"~~;y B~~.Tl-IISISNOT MY f:"LOOR .... " 
Homeless plight hits close to home 
By J1m Joyce
Center for Social Concerns 

The deadline for signups for the 1991 Urban Plunge is rapidly approaching. The Plunge is a 48 hour program which enables students to see, firsthand, the struggles that the underprivileged face in inner­city America. As a participant in the Pittsburgh area Urban Plunge during Jan. 1990, I highly recommend this program. I would like to share some of my experiences from last January with you, firstly, to give an example of an Urban Plunge and, secondly, to eliminate some common misconceptions concerning the plight of the homeless in our society. 
One group I was involved with during the Plunge believes in assisting the homeless by teaching them job skills, setting them up with job interviews and helping them to develop social skills. This organization is called the Pleasant Valley Shelter and is located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The facility is operated by a group of churches on the north side of Pittsburgh called Northside Common Ministries. The shelter was run by six men who showed me the importance of helping people rebound from a bad break and getting them back on their feet as soon as possible. 
The first night before actually entering the shelter, "Reggie" (one of the men who is called the "caregiver") gave us a talk about what to expect when we arrived at the shelter. It was Reggie's talk that helped me realize what the workers were there to do, and it helped me see the homeless in a totally new light. Reggie told us that we should not stereotype the men in the shelter as fat, lazy winos who would never amount to anything in the world. He told us that many of the men in the shelter were just like us, but because of circumstances beyond their control, they were forced into this situation. At first I found this hard to be­lieve, but as I went into the shelter and began talking to these men, I found that Reggie was right. The following is a brief description of some of the men I met and how they ended up in the shelter. 
Jeff is a young man of about 26 who has very strong beliefs and who works very hard to make his beliefs known. Jeff reminded me a lot of myself in many ways. He was a college student at a small midwestern college. He seemed quite intelli­gent but stated many times that school just was not for him, so he quit. He said that since he quit college, he had been travelling around the country working for minimum wage. He was quick to add that it was the minimum wage that had him "trapped" in the shelter. He said that he did not earn enough working for minimum wage to rent an apartment, so he was forced to stay in the shelter to survive. He felt that the government should raise the minimum wage. After hear­ing his story, I tend to agree with him. 
Dean is quite different from Jeff, but he still reminded me of many people I have known. Dean is a middle-aged man who graduated from Penn State University with a degree in business. He said that his life was pretty normal until he be­gan taking classes at a local community college to earn a degree in psychology. It was at this time that his wife divorced him and took the house in the divorce settlement. Dean was without a home and, being in college, he had very little time to work to support himself. This is why he had to turn to the shelter. Dean continues to take classes and relies on the shelter for a home. 
The last man I will describe is Chris. He was approximately 30 years old. Chris said he was once a musician in a band and was quite wealthy. He told us he got mixed up with drugs and eventually became an addict. He spent all his money on drugs and ended up in the shelter. 
While I was at the shelter, I talked to many more men, each with his own unique story. But, as Reggie told us, most of these men were a lot like us. After my two days in the shelter, I can definitely see this is true. Any one of my friends, or even I, could end up in a homeless shelter if we had a few untimely bad breaks and had no one to turn to. This leads me to believe that we must do something for the poor immediately and stop stereotyping their situations. Eliminating stereotypes begins with a change in attitudes. Through the firsthand experi­ence of programs such as Urban Plunge, we can see the homeless in the proper perspective. 
This Christmas break, I urge you to participate in an Urban Plunge. It is an opportunity to gain understanding for the plight of the less privileged in our society, so that we will not be as insensitive to their needs. Looking back on my experi­ences of Urban Plunge, I found that the 48 hours of my time were insignificant compared with the ·perspective I gained while at the shelter. Homeless people demand our attention. This Christmas, give them at least that, and give yourself a chance to respect and under­stand them. You might be sur­prised at what you learn. 
Jim Joyce is a junior in the College ofArts and Letters. 
r DOONESBURY 
r GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
r 
HI, /3055. (3()1355 TAKE A LaJKAT THIS, 
IA/HrB 01577<10" LAC8I. A PFJTIT/ON fROM 
Off/C/3 ft3 A 28,000 CON5TITUeN75 MOB ::x:::eN&. ASKiNG 'IW 70 f<ljN 
FO/?. (J)NGR£5S AGAIN,., 
OH, CJCAR... OCAR... I'M NOT 5Uf<& I'M 
UP70TH/S, .. 
'\ 

NO, NO, UP70 WRITING RUNNING? 28,000 THANI<.)()U
I NOT&S.( 
'One generation pas seth away, and another generation cometh; but the Earth abideth forever.' 
Ecclesiastes 
Accent
Thursday, November 1, 19!::1U page 9 
Norm! 
George Wendt 'Cheers' for his 'Old Notre Dame' 
BY PAUL STELZER  when George Wendt, better  crowd at the J.A.C.C. Wendt,  
accent writer  known as Norm Peterson on  who was once a student at  
"Cheers," made a surprise ap­ Notre Dame but never gradu­ 
Catholics vs. Convicts. The  pearance for an intense capac­ ated, began by saying, "I think  
Cause. Unfinished Business.  ity crowd at the Miami pep  we all know that there is some  
The Final Countdown. And  rally. For once a campus rumor  serious unfinished business to  
Norm Peterson.  proved true.  attend to. And I'm not referring  
.Just when you thought the hype for the Miami game was its peak, it grew even higher  Sporting a T-shirt for "The Cause," Wendt delivered a rousing speech to anxious  to my first semester junior year course of studies. I'm not even referring to that honorary de­gree that we all know is well  
overdue... I'm referring to  
three of the darkest Saturday  
afternoons of my life."  
Wendt was alluding to Notre  
Dame's most recent setbacks at  
the hands of the Miami  
Hurricanes. Sending the crowd  
into a frenzy, Wendt concluded  
by cascading the arena with a  
series of primordial roars.  
Minutes before the rally,  
Wendt appeared relaxed and  
jovial in his dressing room. He  
agreed to take a few minutes  
from preparation for the show  
to answer some questions. Prior  
to his years at Notre Dame,  
Wendt attended a strict Jesuit  
prep school in Wisconsin.  
Noting that the prep school  
provided "absolutely no social  
life," Wendt described Notre  
Dame as "a party." He found  
"college, even the likes of Notre  
Dame in 1966, to be like Sodom  
and Gomorrah ... a valley of  
freedom."  
In his first weekend at Notre  
Dame, Wendt slept through  
Freshman Orientation after a  
night of carousing in Niles,  
Michigan. "I got home at dawn,  
and the security guard was  
asleep on the sign-in table,"  
Wendt said. "My roommates  
were up and brushing their  
teeth when I came home.''  
Eventually, Wendt, bearing a  
0.0 junior year GPA, was dis­ 
George Wendt excites an anxious  crowd at the NO-Miami pep rally with  missed from Notre Dame.  
his prediction of an undoubtable N otre Dame victory.  George Wendt forged his ca- 

INXS' new album X is as simple as it sounds 
BY PAUL PEARSON ated). The song that follows is to wait a little longer. Perhaps, 
accent writer great for dancing, but reminds if X fails in a big way, they will 
you too much of "What You reexamine their music and re­The only title INXS could Need" done in a different key. It turn to innovation. come up with for its new album contains a feeble attempt at was all of one letter, X. They wisdom: "Don't you see/ the Okay. That part of the review might have borrowed a better colour of deception! turning was for the fans of The Swing title from Aerosmith-"Same your world around again." and Listen Like Thieves. The Old Song and Dance." Ah, yes, just what everyone rest of this is for the people who 
wants. A few profound lyrics for "discovered" INXS on the 
Once upon a time, the six­everyone to ignore because mainstream radio, the ones man Australian team of Andrew they are too busy dancing to the who fell in love with "Need You Farriss, Michael Hutchence, familiar guitar chords. Tonight" and "New Sensation" .Jon Farriss, Garry Gary Beers, The songs that follow also and dubbed INXS a "Top 40" Kirk Pengilly and Tim Farriss reek of the same 'Shut up and group. were known as a group of Dance' mentality to much un­This group of INXS fans will innovators, as the band you like the songs found in Listen eat up X for the very same rea­could count on to come up with Like Thieves and The Swing. son the other group will reject something you had not heard "Disappear," another song ofT it-the fact that it sounds so before. the album, shows another at­much like Kick. 
Now, it seems that after their tempt at profundity: "All the The songs, most of which are 
phenomenal success with the problems/ all the fears/ and the driven by Beers' bass and multi-platinum album Kick, life world seems to disappear." Farriss' guitar works, contain in the limelight has turned the same steady rock beat that INXS from innovators into imi­The one thing that struck me has put INXS on dance floors 
tators. In fact, another appro­about the album is that the everywhere in the past few 
priate title for this new album songs sound too much alike. If years. would be "Kick, the Dance any of them, including "Suicide "Lately," for example, fea­Remix." Blonde," were removed from tures Hutchence's breathy vo­
The album's first single, the album, the only person who cals over the standard guitar "Suicide Blonde," opens with a would notice would be the one riffs. It also features some of brief harmonica rifT, supposedly with a stopwatch running. the same style of just-slightly In the attempt to do something Those fans out there who ofT-beat lyrics: "The taste of 
original (even though there are were waiting for a return to the your freedom/ was sweeter very few harmonica Listen Like Thieves-style of the than love/ cause you never had arrangements left to be ere-INXS of the past will just have a chance to live." 
reer in comedy with the Second City troupe out of Chicago. He summed up his six years (1974­
80) with a group that included Shelley Long and Jim Belushi as being "great fun." Many as­sume that these years must have been a struggle in relative anonymity for the aspiring ac­tor. Wendt disagrees. 
" Struggle? It was the most fun. It's a riot-beautiful girls, actresses, ... partying." 
Nevertheless, as a father of five and a self-proclaimed fam­ily man, Wendt prefers the slower, more secure lifestyle he now has. 
Wendt's second gig in sixteen years as an actor has been the popular sitcom, "Cheers." He portrays barfly Norm Peterson, perhaps the most beloved tele­vision character in the history of the medium. 
In its ninth season (episode number 200 airs Nov. 8), "Cheers" is a regular at the top of the weekly Nielsen ratings. What has been the key to such longevity and success? Wendt attributes this phenomenon to the writing and directing of "Cheers." Certainly excellent character actors, e.g. George Wendt, have contributed a great deal as well. 
Borrowing the words of a "Cheers" producer, Wendt re­capitulated the trend of the show's popularity: "Somewhere in the last couple of years, we went from this old show that everyone was tired of, to this old show that everyone is suddenly fond of." Wendt digressed, "Now, I think it's like nobody wants it to go away. It's like a part of America." Wendt expects "Cheers" to continue for one to two more seasons. 
Broadening his horizons, Wendt recently completed work 
The best way to judge your reaction to X is to compare it to your reaction to Kick. It will be impossible to hate one and love the other. No matter what reaction you had to Kick, how­ever, you should agree that this album could be renamed "Kick on a film with Robert De Niro, arguably the best dramatic ac­tor in film today. When asked about performing with an actor of this stature Wendt said, "It was really interesting ... ln a conversational scene, you go, 'Wow, I can do this. I'm working with De Niro. This is cool. I'm there.' And then you come up to an intense scene, and he would just click into this mondo intense thing, and really leave 
me awed." Wendt then con­firmed that De Niro goes by 
"Bob" on the set. 
The film, presently entitled "Fear No Evil," will likely carry a new title when it arrives at the theaters. 
Despite his climbing career, Wendt has not lost his spirit for the school he once attended. Wendt's prediction for the October 20 Notre Dame-Miami showdown was, "something fairly embarrassing for Miami... Notre Dame, 35-10." 
"I took a logic course here at Notre Dame. And I passed it. And logic tells me that if Stanford can beat Notre Dame in South Bend, then we (Notre Dame) can win the rest of our games and win the national championship." In other words, Wendt believes that Notre Dame will have no prob­lem coming back because our upset to Stanford was so unbe­lievable and inconsistent. 
George Wendt presented him­self as a genuinely nice guy, much like his character, Norm Peterson. From Notre Dame to Second City to "Cheers," Wendt has amused millions. What do you say, Father Malloy, how about an honorary degree for Mr. George Wendt? 
Revisited." Or "INXS Makes More of the Same." Or "Mike's Purple Elephant." 
Or ANYTHING but X!!! C'mon, guys, you can do better than that for a title. 


-------, 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1990 
Tyson is found guilty of battery
NO's Zorich is a finalist 
NEW YORK (AP) -A jury on
for the Lombardi Award 
Wednesday decided that former 
HOUSTON (AP) -Moe Gardner of Illinois, Russell Maryland of Miami, David Rocker of Auburn and Chris Zorich of Notre Dame on Wednesday were named fmal­ists for the Lombardi Award, given to the nation's top line­man. 

! 
All four are defensive players, although offensive linemen also are eligible for the award. 
Twelve players were nomi­nated before the season. That 

! 
list was narrowed to four finalists -all seniors -by a 
heavyweight champion Mike nationwide committee of 
Tyson fondled a woman at a college coaches, sports 
Manhattan dance club in 1988 writers and sportscasters. 
and awarded the woman $100 The winner will be an­
in compensatory damages. nounced Dec. 6. 
The five-women, one-man jury Gardner was an All-Big Ten 
will return to Manhattan's fed­selection as a sophomore and 
eral court on Thursday to hear junior. Rocker, whose brother 
testimony on Tyson's financial Tracy won the Lombardi 
status before ruling on punitive Award in 1988, anchors 
damages. Auburn's highly rated 
The woman, Sandra Miller, defense. 
asked for up to $2.5 million in Maryland, who had a career­
punitive damages in her civil high 20 tackles against Notre 
lawsuit. Dame two weeks ago, has 64 
The jury deliberated about 4 tackles this season with six 
112 hours before finding that sacks. 
Tyson, the former heavyweight champion, grabbed Miller's breasts and buttocks after she refused his advances at Bentley's Disco on Dec. 10, 1988. 
Tyson, who had denied that the incident ever took place, showed no outward emotion as 
U.S. District Judge Michael B. Mukasey read the verdict, which found the fighter had committed battery but not as­sault. 
In his instructions on the law, the judge had explained that assault required no finding of contact but must include a threat. A finding of battery re­quires actual contact, he said. 
Tyson said he was not disap­pointed with the verdict. "If they thought it was serious, they would have given her more than 100 bucks," he said. 
When asked how she felt, Miller, a 26-year-old computer operator from Queens, said, "Great that they know that he did it. .. 
Tyson, who testified during the three-day trial, acknowledged that he was at Bentley's Disco that night but denied knowing or ever touching Miller. 
Before deciding punitive dam­ages, the jury will get a copy of Tyson's financial statement. Miller's attorneys said they also plan to call another woman who has sued Tyson for a simi­lar incident that allegedly hap­pened the same night at Bentley's. 
l 
l The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next ·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291·7153 
JUST SAY NOI Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233·2342 
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST STUDENTS IN ECON ,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277 · 5134 Cathy. 
BIG BROTHERS,BIG SISTERS Chicago Trip This Saturday, Nov. 3 Call237·1983 to R.S.V.P. CHICAGO BIG BROTHERS,BIG SISTERS 
GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTY STAFF 
THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB IS OPEN exclusively TO YOU! FRIDAY 5:00 PM-9:00 PM 
NO COVER CHARGE! 
I LOST/FOUND ) 
I lost my wallet October 17. If you find it, please call Joe at 2480 or 2456. Reward offered. Thank you 
FOUND: "precious" stone outside SCH Call Ken 239-5611 to identify. 
"REWARD** I lost my RED PLAID UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 in Hesburgh library. VERY high sentimental value (plus, it is unique and I would definitely recognize ill) Please call 2983 with info NOA. I really need my umbrella! 
**REWARD** 
LOST: 14k·gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football Field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please call Cara x3847 
Found at Miami game: -one shoe -one pair of sunglasses 
Call Matt @3472 to identify. 
LOST RING!!! LOST RING !Ill PLEASE, if you found a gold ring with a purple heart-shaped stone being held by two hands and with a crown on top, CONTACT ERIN at 4634. I live in 114 Lewis. This ring means so much to me-­PLEASE CALLI!! 

LOST RING!!! LOST RING!!! Gold Clataugh (sp?) ring ... two hands holding a heart· shaped purple stone, with a crown on top ... PLEASE contact me if you've found it!!! It was a pre-Christmas gift-the only one I'll see!! Erin at 4634, 114 Lewis ........ 
LOST: Men's gold ring with a "D" engraved on it. Please help. I am starting to panic. The ring has great sentimental value. If found please call Brooke at X3701 or come to Lewis 236. Thank you. 
WANTED 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
SPRING BREAK/CHRISTMAS BREAK TOURS INDIVIDUALS OR STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NEEDED TO PROMOTE OUR SKI/SUN TOURS. EARN MONEY & FREE TRIPS TO CANCUN, MONTREAL, DAYTONA, VERMONT. CALL HI-LIFE 1·800· 263-5604. 
Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1·615-473·7440 Ext. B 340. 
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 
ATTENTION: Excellent income for home assembly work. 504-646· 1700 DEPT. P5868 
TRAVEL FREEl CAMPUS REPS WANTED. QUALITY VACATIONS TO EXOTIC DESTINATIONS. AFFORDABLE SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO JAMAICA/CANCUN! FREE TRAVEL AND$$. 1·800·426· 7710. 
WANTED: ENTREPRENEURS, PEOPLE WHO WANT TO WORK THEIR OWN HOURS, MAKE GOOD MONEY, AND HAVE SOME FUN SELLING 20 CENT PER MINUTE PHONE CARDS ON CAMPUS WITH THE HELP OF EFFECTIVE POSTERS AND FLYERS. FOR FREE INFO. PACK, CALL 1-800·223-7592, AT TONE DIAL 268·2678. TOUCHTONE PHONES ONLY. 
Needed: 4 PSU GA's Jared X4246 
Needed: 4 PSU GA's JARED X4246 
FOR RENT 

an attractive studio in lovely old mansion near NO 255/mo call 2888595 
HOUSE FOR RENT · 527 S. Eddy St. 6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, eat-in Kitchen, Livingroom and finished room in basement. $500 security and $500/month plus utilities. Contact John at 232·1242. 
FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY 273·9406 OR 283·2805 Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap 15 min. Walking from Campus Avail. Dec. 1 ·May 31 Bob x3234 
FOR SALE 
CD Player, Stereo cabinet, mise electronic equip. 272·41 08, Steve 
1 0 SPEED BIKE.272·6306 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273· 1364 
Why rent when you can buy? Duplex condos for sale.$41 ,000 ea. or $78,000/duplex. 2 bdrms, 2 baths, kitchen-all appliances. $2000 down for NO students. 10 mins. from campus. 273-0388 
TICKETS 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 
Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688 Monday· Thursday 3:30·6:30 
Need 2 GA's for Penn St call Ryan x1048 
I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at x1809. 
NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL 
TOM 

273·0302 
$ 

ONE PENN STATE STUD FOR SALE· BEST OFFER Call JOE 27H211 
$ 

HELP ME! I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. JOE X2358 
I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX CALL ARNOLD 3333 
HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. TONY x1590 
WINDCHILL, FROSTBITE NOVH PENN ST Need I say more? Ryan need 2 stud tix x1048 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT 
(704) 322·3709 ASK FOR MARK. 
I NEED PENN STATE GA'S FOR LITTLE SIS AND MOM PLEASE CALL DIEGO #4075 
Need up to 4 Penn GAs & 2 stu. x2567 
I need 2 Navy G.A.'s and 2 Penn. St. GA's or student tickets. 
Please call Kathy x1296 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Wealthy Physician to Pay Big Bucks for PENN STATE G.A.'s or STUDS x 1935 ask for Alex $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
2 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE CALL JOY X4856 
HELP · I need PSU GA's PLEEEAASE call Beth at 288.0597 
Need 2 Penn St. GA's Jay x2290 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! I need student and GAs for Penn State!! Call Kate at x4071. THANKS!! 
I need MANY Penn State GAs, preferably in groups. Call Paula­283-4096. 
I NEED PENN ST & Tenn tixs.272·6306 
5 PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 716-873-7227. 
PENN STATE TIX; need 1 student; call Bill x3300 
Need stud tix for Penn St. Call Geoff at 271·5686. 
Call x1594 and sell Greg 2 tix to the Penn St. game. Stud. or GA's 
I NEED 2 Penn St. G.A.'s or Studs. Aimee x4112. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 OR 5 PENN STATE GA'S CALL PAT AT #1802 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273·1364 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X3797 
Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283·1818 and leave a message. 
Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x1581. Will beat any offer. 
Please help me I need Penn State GA's. And lots of them. They're for these relatives I don't know very well, and if I don't get any, it could be downright awkward. Call x2980. 
I NEED A LOT OF PENN ST. GA'S $$$CALL DEREK 234·3356$$$ 
DO YOU HAVE PENN ST. TIX? I NEED 81111 CALL TIM#2704 
Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll be happy! Cristin x3857 
Need 2 studs for Penn St. Call Billxt583 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR PENN ST. GA'SIII NEED A LOT. $$$$ 
X 3028 OR 2546 $$$ 
I need all the tickets that you can sell me for the Tennessee· 
N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 or leave a message. 
I need two tickets for Penn State. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. 
I need two tickets for Penn State. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. 
NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA TIX FOR LITTLE SIS PLEASE!! CALL SARAH 2815 
I NEEEEED Penn St. GA's Please Help Jill x4852 
*Nov. 20, 1987 @ psu ·30 degrees, snow flurries • Nov. 19, 1988@ NO 30 degrees, cold So. Bend rain • Nov. 18, 1989@ psu -20 degrees, snow flurries ••stay HOME, Stay WARM** 
Sell me your Penn St. Std.'s or G.A.'s CALL Ed 277·8974 
WHY PAY $40 FOR A PENN STATE TICKET?? JUST GO THROUGH THE CARROLL HALL HAUNTED HOUSE 20 TIMES 
NEED GA's FOR PENNI! II CALL 283·2521, Tasha 
WANTED! 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL TEDS Xt388. 
DESPERTL Y SEEKING PENN ST. GA'S AND STUD'STIX Call Julie 289·1440 
I PERSONALS ] 
hi ag 
Are you and your roomate an odd couple that have little in common but have found a way, or system, of living together? If this is you and you want your situation published in the South Bend Tribune, call Scott at x1818. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY, 
KATIE MCBRIDE!! We heard your (oh wait, it's you're) expecting-Hope it's a Pvnrtll 
Love, Lisa and Annie 
P.S. Benzene Man died. 
WE SING BAD listen for us soon (coming to your room) 
FARLEY HALL TRIP FROM HELL 
1. 
I guess he never found anyone who bruises so easily 

2. 
It was the first time anything like that ever happened. What happened?? Well, put your mind in the gutter. 

3. 
Mary, Is that what you really sound like??? 

4. 
It's just a matter of inches. 

5. 
It's either yes or no­no maybe's. 

6. 
If she gives me one more B.J., she'll need braces. 

7. 
I've gotta pee before we hop on the big M. 

8. 
We can do 15, hell· we can do as many as we want! 

9. 
Don't just sit there and play with It· eat It!! 

10. 
ANDI: FORGET MEN, JUST BUY ME A VIBRATORIIIIIIIIII 


ALESE BROZ·YES YOU sorry, I screwed up, but HAPPY BELATED 20TH BIRTHDAY • love me and Elmo Five pleasant, sensitive seniors searching for five compelling females to accompany us on an entertaining and exciting evening Saturday night. We need SYR dates no dogbook no dialing will do Call2097, we need you. 
WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGEII!I! You got your wish times 5! (Is 5 your lucky number?? Tee hee.) 
JON, I am formally requesting your presence at my formal Nov. 30. This invitation entitles you to a night of dancing, smiles, and fun. RSVP ASAP please :). Diddo, KAL 
hey POOPEY·HEAD happy 3/411 I LOVE YOU!! -sweetums 

The feeling has gone but the rage is still there, feeding the beast as it scours for food, and all the while a small voice pleading for the mercy of a kind Hell is consumed in the wake of compassionless anger. Yet it feeds. And it feeds. And it grows. And grows. As Time it expires and light it devours, its only recourse is to scream at the night it's become. And still the small voice pleads. Can you hear it? 
Can You Stand the Fear? Can You Survive the Terror? Can You Find the Dorm? 
CARROLL HALL HAUNTED HOUSE· SAT. 7:30·10:30 
tOO Terrifyingly Creative Vermin Are Waiting 
where's carroll hall? Where's Carroll Hall?? WHERE'S CARROLL HALL??? 
After Saturday night, you'll wish you'd never asked 
RITA KICKS BUTT! 
Wanted: 

one extremely good looking male; 6'2";Brown hair; Brown eyes;distinct New York accent;adore the #80;goes by the name of a famous mouse-to join Shan-Bear for an evening at SMCII 
sdgf 
Do you want to join or
•

find out more about the Knights of Columbus ? Come to our open house on Thursday, November 1st from 7p.m. to 10 p.m., at our building, next to the bookstore. Questions ? Call239-7018. 

Thursday, November 1, 1990 Scoreboard page 11 
NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
All Tim.. EST 
1990 Jim Leyland, Pittsburgh 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eul w L T Pet. PF Buffalo 6 1 0 .857 167 Miami 6 1 0 .857 152 N.Y. Jets 3 5 0 .375 151 ndlanapoils 2 5 0 .286 105 New England 1 6 0 .143 100 Central Cinclnnall 5 3 0 .625 205 Houston 4 4 0 .500 181 Pittsburgh 4 4 0 .500 150 Cleveland 2 6 0 .250 128 West LA Raiders 6 1 0 .857 147 Kanaas City 4 3 0 .571 167 Denver 3 4 0 .429 168 Seattle 3 4 0 .429 144 San Otego 3 5 0 .375 164 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eut w L T Pet. PF NY Giants 7 0 0 1.000 171 Washington 4 3 0 .571 144 Philadelphia 3 4 0 .429 151 Dallas 3 5 0 .375 110 Phoenix 2 5 0 .286 100 Central Chicago 6 0 .857 173 Tampa Bay 4 4 0 .500 157 Detroit 3 4 0 .429 168 Green Bay 3 4 0 .429 127 Minnesota 1 6 0 .143 150 West Sen Francisco 7 0 0 1.000 174 Allanta 3 4 0 .429 199 LA Rams 2 5 0 .286 174 New Orleans 2 5 0 .286 115 Sunday's Games Buffalo 27. New England 10 Detroit 27, New Orleans 10 Miami 27, Indianapolis 7 Green Bay 24, Minnesota 10 New York Jets 17, Houston 12 Philadelphia 21. Dallas 20 Chicago 31, Phoenix 21 Sen Francisco 20, Cleveland 17 San Diego 41 , Tampa Bay 1 0 New York Giants 2t, Washington 10 Atlanta 38, Cincinnati 17 OPEN DATES: Denver, Los Angeles Raiders. Kansas City, Seattle Monday's Game Pittsburgh 41, Los Angeles Rams 10 Sunday, Nov. 4 Allanta at Pittsburgh. 1 p.m.  PA 136 90 190 162 196 204 152 138 193 99 114 178 135 142 PA 96 103 152 156 172 96 182 179 156 159 118 200 214 150  All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L T NY Rangers 11 3 0 New Jersey 8 4 1 Washington 7 7 0 Pittsburgh 6 6 1 Philadelphia 6 6 0 NY Islanders 3 9 0 Adams Division Montreal 7 6 1 Boston 6 4 2 Hartford 4 7 2 Buffalo 3 5 4 Quebec 3 7 3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w L T St. Louis 8 3 1 Chicago 8 5 0 Detroit 6 4 3 Minnesota 2 8 3 Toronto 2 10 1 Smythe Division Los Angeles 9 3 1 Calgary 9 4 0 Vancouver 6 6 0 Winnipeg 4 7 1 Edmonton 2 6 2 Tuesday's Games St. Louis 5, Detroit 2 Los Angeles 4, N.Y. islanders 1 Pittsburgh 6, Philadelphia 2 Toronto 5, Minnesota 4 Calgary 6, New Jersey 3 Washington 2, Vancouver 1 Wednesday's Games Late Game Not Included Boston 3, Buffalo 3, tie Montreal 4, Hartford 2 N.Y. Rangers 9, Los Angeles 4 Winnipeg at Edmonton. (n) Thursday's Games St. Louis at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m. Quebec at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Winnipeg at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. New Jersey at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Friday's Games N.Y. islanders at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Washington, 8:05 p.m. NHL LINESCORES  Pts 22 17 14 13 12 6 15 14 10 10 9 Pta 17 16 15 7 5 19 18 12 9 6  GF 64 53 43 61 44 31 46 39 32 39 38 GF 45 43 51 35 34 61 58 37 41 29  GA 34 44 45 53 46 54 46 44 44 39 53 GA 35 32 48 52 61 42 39 40 42 31  BASEBALL American League CLEVELAND INDIANS--Waived Dlon James. oullielder. National League ST. LOUIS CARDINALS--Exercised the 1991 contract option of Jose Oquendo, infielder. American Association INDIANAPOLIS INDIANS--Named Jerry Manuel manager. BASKETBALL National Buketball Aaaoclation CHARLOTIE HORNETS--Waived Richard Anderson, lorward, and Michael Holton, guard. INDIANA PACERS--Waived Dyron Nix and Gary Plummer. forwards. and Greg Wlltjer, center. LOS ANGELES LAKERS--Walved Keith Smtth, guard. MIAMI HEAT-Waived Jeff Senders, forward. NEW JERSEY NETS--Placed Roy Hinson. forward, on the injured list. NEW YORK KNICKS--Waived Earl Cureton. forward. ORLANDO MAGIC-Traded Sidney Green, forward, to the San Antonio Spurs for Mark McNamara. center, and a 1991 first round draft pick. PHOENIX SUN&-Piaced Andrew Lang, center; Ricky Blanton, forward; and Nagele Knight, guard, on the Injured list. PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZER&-Released Shawn McDaniel, guard, and Mark Bradtke and Todd Mitchell. forwards. SAN ANTONIO SPURS--Waived Rick Calloway, guard. WASHINGTON BULLET&-Traded Steve Colter, guard, to the Sacramento Kings for Byron Irvin, guard. Waived Sam Jefferson. lorward, and Tony Harris. guard. FOOTBALL National Football League NEW ENGLAND PATRIOT&-Released Don Overton. running back. Signed Mickey Washington, cornerlbeck. PHILADELPHIA EAGLE&-Signed Dick Chapura, defensive tackle. Waived Maurice Henry. linebacker. Placed Greg Mark, defensive end, on injured reserve. Claimed Anthony Edwards, wide receiver, off procedural recall. Waived Eric Wainwright, linebacker, from the physically unable to perlorm list. HOCKEY  
Dallas at New York Jets, 1 p.m. New England at Philadelphia. 1 p.m. New Orleans at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. Phoenix at Miami, 1 p.m. Los Angeles Raiders at Kansas City, 1 p.m.  At Hartford, Conn. Montreal 1 3 Q-4 Hartford 2 0 0-2 First Period-I, Hartford, Cote 1 (Krygier, Ladoucaur), 8:09. 2, Montreal. Courtnall 4 (Svoboda, Gilchrist).  National Hockey League TORONTO MAPLE LEAF&-Sent John Kordic, right wing, to Newmarket of the American Hockey League.  
Sen Francisco at Green Bay, 1 p.m.  14:25. 3, Hartford, Cunneyworth 5 (Cote, Holik), 19:36.  SOCCER  
Washington at Detroit, 1 p.m.  Second Perioo-, Montreal, Savard 6 (Keane. Schneider). 1:07 (pp). 5. Montreal, Courtnall 5 (Lefebvre,  U.S.  SOCCER  FEDERATION-Loaned  John  
Buffalo at Cleveland. 4 p.m. ChiCago at Tampa Bay, 4 p.m. Houston at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m.  Desjardins). 8:43. 6, Montreal, Skrudland 6 (Svoboda), 15:48. Third Period-None. Shots on goal-Montreal 9-9-8-26. Hartford 9·11-8-28.  Harkes, midtielder, lo Sheffield Wednesday of the English second division through the end of the 1990-91 season.  
Sen Otego at Seattle, 4 p.m. Denver at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Monday, Nov. 5  Goalies-Montreal, Roy. Hartford, Sidorklewicz, Whitmore. A-10,573. At New York  National Prolasalonal Soccer League MILWAUKEE WAVE-5igned Dzung Tran, midtielder. and nm Bartra. forward.  
New York Giants at Indianapolis, 9 p.m.  Los Angeles  2  1­ 
N.Y. Rangers  2  2  5-9  COLLEGE  
Firs\ Period-I, New York, K.Miller 4 (Ogrodnick), 1:10. 2, Los Angeles, Granato 7 (Robinson. McSorley).  ERSKINE-Named Monty Wooley men's  
3:31. 3, New York, Mullen 7 (Leetch), 11:23 (pp). 4, Los Angeles. Gretzky 9 (Sandstrom,  assistant head basketball coach and Richard  
NFL LEADERS  Duchesne). 15:59. Second Period-S, New York. Broten 2 (Turcotte, Patrick), :10. 6, New York, Sheppard 3 (Turcotte), 1:15  Marshall men's assistant basketball coach. NORTHWESTERN STATE-Extended the  
(pp). 7. Los Angeles, Jones 2 (Kasper), 1:51.  contract of Sam Goodwin. football coach,  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Receiver• NO Givms, Hou. 40  Yda 571  Avg 14.3  LG t80  TO 5  Third Peri~. New York, Leetch 5, 1:12.9, New York, Ogrodnick 5 (K.Miller, Hardy). 2:16. 10, New York. Turcotte 7 (Gartner, Erixon), 3:07. 11, New York. Erlxon 2, 10:18 (sh). 12, New York, Ogrodnick 6 (Leetch, Sheppard), 14:56 (pp). 13, Los Angeles, Taylor 2 (Eiik, Duchesne). 16:46. Shots on goal-Los Angeles 19-11-12-2. New York 10-15-12-37.  through 1991. ROBERT MORRIS--Named Marty Galosl director of sports Information and marketing. VANDERBILT-Named Robert Vowels Jr. assistant athletic director and Greta Corcoran  
Jefflres,  Hou.  39  427  10.9  35  3  Goalies-Los Angeles, Barthiaume, Hrudey. New York, Richter. A-16,325.  comptroller tor the athletic department.  
Hill, Hou.  38  544  14.3  t33  3  
Duncan. Hou.  38  424  11.2  31  0  At Buffalo, N.Y.  
Patge, K.C.  33  528  16.0  t83  2  Boston Buffalo  1 0  2  1  0-3 0-3  NL MANAGERS OF  
Scoring Touchdown•  First Period-I, Boston, Janney 3 (Ruzicka, Walz), 5:20 (pp). Second Period-2, Buffalo, Mogilny 4 (Hawerchuk). 3:17. 3, Buffalo, Makela 1 (Ruuttu. Snuggerud), 10:14.  THE YEAR  
TO  Rush  Rec  Ret  Pta  4, Boston, Christian 4 (Brickley, Bourque), II :11.  
Fenner. Sea. Brooks. Cln. Butts, SO. Green, Pitt.  8 7 6 6  1 3 6 0  1 4 0 6  0 0 0 0  48 42 36 36  Third Period-S, Buffalo, Valve 7 (Krupp), 8:08. 6, Boston, Carpenter 3 (Galley. Bourque), 10:15 (pp). Overtime-None. Shots on goal-Boston 12-14-9-1-36. Buffalo 5-7-5-1-18. Goalies-Boston. Lemelin. Buffalo, Malarchuk. A-14,668.  The National League Managers of the Year as selected by the Baseball Writer's Association of America (the BBWAA began selecting in 1983):  

-

Smith, Mia. 6 6 0 0 36 
RESULTS SPORTS CALENDAR 1989-Don Zimmer, Chicago 
Volleyb&il 1988-Tommy Lasorda, L.A. Kicking Thursday, November 1
Notre Dame del. Minnesota 15-10, 3-15, 15-4, 15-1987-Bob Rodgers, Montreal PAT FG LG Pta 12 (10/21) 
Men's soccer at St. Louis (1st round MCC 1986 -Hal Lanier, HoustonTourney)Breech, Cln. 23-23 14-15 46 65 Purdue del. Notre Dame 15-3, 15·4, 15-11 (10/23) 
1985-Whitey Herzog, St. Louis Lowery. K.C. t8-18 13-16 44 57 Butler del. Notre Dame 15-12, 8-15, 15-11, 9-15, 15-10 (10/24) 
Volleyball v. Illinois 
SMC Volleyball at Lewis University 1984-Jim Frey, Chicago Leahy, Jets 16-16 13-t4 47 55 
1983-Tommy Lasorda, L.A.

Pittsburgh del. Notre Dame 15-6, 15-9, 15-7
Norwood. Buff 19-21 12-18 48 55 Friday, November 2
(10/27) Treadwell, Den. 19-19 11-16 44 52 Men's and women's swimming host Notre Dame
George Washington del. Notre Dame 10-15, 15­Johnson, Sea. t5-16 11-16 51 48 Relays
10, 15-13, 12-15, 15-8 (10/28) Hockey at Kent State Penn St. del. Notre Dame 15-8, 15-9, 15-4 (10/28) 
SMC Volleyball 

American Heart Saturday, November 3 
Saint Mary's del. Chicago State University 15-3, 
Football v. Navy at Giants Stadium 15-3, 15-8 
Association

Volleyball v. Western Michigan
SMC Soccer Saint Mary's del. Bowling Green 1-0 Men's and women's swimming host MCC Dual MeetSaint Mary's tied College of Wooster 1-1 Hockey at Kent Stot" 
Alex's-An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been serving the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can't take the streetcar anymore, but today's quick trip downtown still rewards you with cartng, friendly service (often while you wait) and old time craftsmanship. 
Keep your feet In shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital.
ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASHINGTON HALL tHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 ··sHAkESPEARE'S. AS YOU i.tKE·IT 
, I 

-~­
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT 
SHOE·HOSPITAL 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
115 West Washington
(Scenes from 20th Century lnsh fhra1rrl Devised by Sam Dale 
Downtown South Bend 8:00pm Tickets: $10, $H Scnil'l Citizens, $6 Students 
Dally 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Tickets arc available ,1\ 1hc door or in advance at the 
Telephone 288-2188
Lafortune Student Center T1cke1 orr" e Mastt>rCard!Visa orders call 239-812R 





page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1990 
Belles finish season tonight 
By CHRIS BACON 
Saint Mary's sports editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team finishes their season tonight on the road facing 1989 Division II Great Lakes Conference defending champion Lewis University. 
The Belles, 13-15, head into tonight's game still reeling from Tuesday night's decisive victory over Division I Chicago State University. The Belles swept Chicago in three games, 15-3, 15-3, 15-8. 
"Offensively, we hit very well and served smartly and aggres­sively," said Belles Head Coach Sue Medley. "We played better defense [Tuesday night] than we did in recent games." 

" I was pleased. I think we did a great job keeping the enthu­siasm up," said senior co-cap­tain Michelle Sibilsky. "We knew we could beat them and we took them in three. We def­initely played the way we wanted to." 
Sibilsky led the Belles with 11 kill and hit .714. Senior co-cap­tain Katy Killilea added eight kills. Sophomore Sara Jisa tal­lied five service aces while sophomore Karen Lorton had eight digs. As a team, the Belles hit .379. 
Tonight's game will be a challenge for the Belles. Although they feel they can beat this Lewis team, Coach Medley says confidence is the key. 
"They are one of the strongest Division II teams. It will be an emotional game for both of us. I know we have the ability to beat them. The key for us is to play with team con­fidence." 
Leyland is NL Manager of Year 
NEW YORK (AP) -Jim Leyland, who turned the Pittsburgh Pirates into con­tenders and guided them through the pressure of a pen­nant race, was selected the National League manager of the year on Wednesday. 
Leyland took a team that went 74-88 and was fifth in the NL East in 1989 and molded it into a division champion at 95-67. The Pirates overcame the New York Mets and all the odds in the stretch to finish with the second-best record in baseball. 
The Pirates had Barry Bonds and Bobby Bonilla for offense, but did not have a set starting rotation or a relief ace. Leyland juggled his staff and wound up with 18 different pitchers get­ting victories. 
Leyland got 17 of the 24 first­place votes and finished with 99 points. Lou Piniella, who led Cincinnati to the World Series championship in his first season with the Reds, got three first­place votes and was second with 49 points. 
Montreal's Buck Rodgers also got three first-place votes and was tied for third with 32 points with Los Angeles' Tom Lasorda, who got the other first-place vote. San Francisco's Roger Craig and New York's Bud Harrelson tied for fourth with two points each. 
No manager was named on all 24 ballots. Two members of the Baseball Writers Association of America in each NL city vote, and voting was completed be­fore the start of the playoffs, in which Cincinnati beat 
Pittsburgh in six games. **************************************••················••***************** 
Jeff Torborg of the Chicago 

: ..SUB Music presents•• :
White Sox was selected the American League manager of 
•* a progressive band from New Jersey. ••
the year on Tuesday. Leyland, 45, won in his fifth •• Performing at Stepan Center on Tlhtursdlay, November 1 at 7:30llPM. •• 
If what happened : The Critically Acclaimed : 
on your inside • • happened on your 
! ITINY LIGHTS! ! 
• *outside, would 
• 
: "Tiny Lights recall an era when Talking "Tiny Lights musicality refreshing" •: 
you still smoke? 

* Heads played a small club with the same -The Daily Iowan • : arty punch as. this Hoboken outfit." : 
NOVEMBER 15. 

: -The Gayjn Report :
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 

: "Modern rockers shouldn't let this slide by." : 
: -Billboard :
~~~ 
tsoaETY' 

• * 
: "...you've got alternative music with a "Tiny Lights just glow--Band's eclectic : 
: touch of class." sounds stem from innovation." :
• : -Illinois Entertainer -The Houston Press : Touch a life. Give to the United Way. 
: lPROMO"JI'llNG irlHllBJIR NJBW AILJBUM lHIOir CJHIOCOIL.A1'1B MASSAGJB : 
... 

****************************************************************••········· 
season with Pittsburgh. He was a career minor league man be­fore that, playing seven seasons as a catcher in the Detroit or­ganization and then managing for 11 years in the Tigers' sys­tem. 
He joined the White Sox as a coach in 1982 and studied un­der manager Tony La Russa, who remains one of Leyland's closest friends, and was finally hired to manage in the majors in 1986 with Pittsburgh. 
Pittsburgh improved the first three years under Leyland, go­ing 85-75 in 1988 and challeng­ing the Mets for most of the season. But in 1989, the Pirates slipped far back and they were given little chance this season of competing with the Mets, the defending champion Chicago Cubs or St. Louis. 
The Pirates struggled for the first two weeks, then hit their stride and took over frrst place. Pittsburgh stayed there for most of the season and, even when the Mets nudged ahead in the first week of September, would not fold as many pre­dicted. 
Leyland would not let his team collapse, guiding the Pirates with an intense yet cool de­meanor. He quit smoking mid­way through the season and just when his own team ex­pected him to become more nervous, he did not. 
Instead, he kept the Pirates in front by skillfully sticking with whoever was the hot reliever, be it Stan Belinda, Vincente Palacios or Bill Landrum. Leyland also had the benefit of Doug Drabek, who emerged as one of baseball's best starters, plus the Killer Bs -Bonds and Bonilla, along with Sid Bream, Wally Backman and Jay Bell. 
The Pirates finished four games ahead of the Mets. Many had thought the division would be decided by a three-game, season-ending series against New York at Three Rivers Stadium, but by the time the 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will be testing its ranks Sat, Nov. 3rd at 10 a.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. All spectators are welcome. 
Irish Insanity will not meet this Wednesday. All members are encouraged to attend the Nov. 9 hockey game. Details will follow. 
Off-campus soccer team -the first playoff game will be Sunday at 1 p.m. vs. St. Ed's at Stepan North. Questions, please call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
Men's interhall football equipment return is today at Gate 9 of the Stadium. The time are: Carroll, 6 p.m.; Pangborn, 6:15 p.m.; St. Ed's, 6:30 p.m.; Dillon, 6:45 p.m.; Morrissey, 7 p.m.; Flanner, 7:15 p.m.; Keenan, 7:30 p.m.; Cavanaugh, 7:45 p.m. and Zahm, 8 p.m. The teams who turn in everything on the first day will be placed in a hat determining issue for next year. Jerseys and pants must be returned no matter what condition. If not, a charge will result, and the team will be among the last to receive equipment next year. 
St. Mary's diver Carrie Cummins has been named to the 1990 College Swimming Coaches Association of America all­academic team. Cummins, a communication and business administration major with a 3.55 average, earned NAIA All­American honors for the Belles last spring. She is-one of 156 athletes to receive the award this year. 
LIFE IS YOUR MOST &t'aAmerican Heart 
VALUABLE POSSESSION. 
~Association 

PASS IT ON. 



A year later, a football tragedy still affects two players 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) ­Catcher Darren Daulton, who had declared free agency, changed his mind and returned to the Philadelphia Phillies Wedm~sday, signing a a three­year contract worth $6.75 mil­lion. 
Both Daulton and the Phillies said the key to their agreement was Daulton's right to test the frefl-agnnt markflt at the expi­ration of his new contract. 
Phillies president Bill Giles, who personally negotiated the contract, said that if Daulton, 28, had signed with any other tflam he couldn't bflcome a free agent again for five years. 
Daulton, a .206 lifetime hitter until this year, hit .268 in 1990 and set career highs in almost every offflnsive department, in­cluding games played (139), home runs (12), doubles (30), RIHs (57) and walks (72). 
General manager Lee Thomas said Daulton had agreed to a $500,000 signing bonus, a salary next season of $1.7 5 mil­lion and $2.25 million in 1992 and '93. 
"We're glad to have him be­fore he goes into the so-ealled mine field (free agency)," Thomas said. "Once you get out there you don't know what can happen. You want to keep your own and that's what we did." 
Daulton, who was visiting with his parents in Kansas, said by telephone that he and his agent 
.JACKSON. Miss. (AP)-Brad Gaines telephoned Chucky Mullins last Thursday to see if he was traveling to Nashville for the Ole Miss-Vanderbilt game. Chucky said no. Gaines said he didn't think he was go­ing to the game, either. 
Too many memories. Too many nightmares. 
Brad Gaines was the Vanderbilt receiver whom Mullins hit when he suffered his broken neck. 368 days ago. Chucky, of course, remains paralyznd. 
Gaines, 23 and a non-football Sflnior at Vanderbilt. remains captive by the consequences of that single play. 
"FASCINATING! 
TWO TIIUl\mS UP!' -Roger Ebert, SISKEL & EBERT , 
"There's not a day that goes by," Brad Gaines said, "that I don't think about Chucky Mullins." 
He remembers almost every detail of the play: The catch. The ball being jarred loose. The scramble for the ball. Staying on his knees in an attempt to catch his breath. 
"Then five minutes passed. Ten minutes passed. I finally walked over to their huddle and asked them what was wrong. They said, 'He can't move any­thing.' I'll never forget the feel­ing that took over my whole body when I heard that." 
For a week, he couldn't discuss 
'W.

"'' ·~ -~..,.­
FULL SERVICE FLORIST  
Balloon Bouquets Balloon Stuffing Dish Gardens  Plants Corsages Boutonnieres  Bouquets Arrangement Fresh and Sit  

~-----------------------·
l1 0°/o OFF CASH AND CARRYJI with SMC or ND student ID • 
Darren Daulton will remain a Phillie for at least the next three years after signing a $6.75 million contract. He was expected to be one of the most highly sought catchers in the free-agent market. 
talked to some teams and they effectively handled a young were interested, "but in my pitching staff that won 10 more heart I wanted to stay in games and helped the club out Philadelphia, and I wanted to of the East Division cellar. keep my free-agency status at Daulton said the New York the end of the contract." Mets, San Francisco Giants and 
The Phillies were anxious to some American League teams sign Daulton because he had had expressed interest in him. developed into one of the top He made it clear that no con­defensive catchers in the NL. tract terms were discussed He threw out 39 percent of since that was illegal until after opposition base stealers and Nov. 5. 
the play with anyone. "We played Virginia Tech the next week, and I was absolutely hor­rible," Gaines said. 
He finally went to Vandy coach Watson Brown. "I told him, 'Coach, I feel like I need to do something for the guy.' But Watson told me that the psy­chologists and doctors he had talked to didn't think it was a good idea that I see Chucky at that point." 
On the field, Gaines managed to block out Mullins, to some degree, the remainder of the year. "I finished up strong," he said. 
Off the field, he couldn't get Mullins out of his mind. "I used to go to bed at night, thinking of Chucky," he said. "And when I'd 
WANTED: UVE-IN STAFF IN A LOVELY APARTMENT PROVIDED IN EXCHANGE FOR NIGHT-TIME AND ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES 
Dismas is a home where Notre Dame students live with ex-offenders in a beautiful house in a historic district sevlilll minutes from Notre Dame. We want a grad student or couple to live tt1era in residence. Free room and board Is provided In exchange for certain assigned responsibilities. Send letter or resume to Dismas, P.O. Box 4571, South Bend, IN 46634. Direct questions to Jim Roemer, Community Relations, Notre Dame (239­
6614). 
h 
./:J
PI
v/}/ ,f, •·· 

Happy Birthday 
A 
AP 
Daulton said he really didn't know what turned him around as a hitter in the last half of the 1990 season. He hit .297 in the second half. 
"Maybe it was being moved up in the order," he said. He had been the eighth-place hitter in the lineup and was elevated to batting second, where he saw a lot more fastballs. He is known as a good fastball hitter. 
wake up, he'd be the first thing I thought about. That went on for quite awhile." 
Gaines finally met Chucky face to face last December, on the day of the Rebels' Liberty Bowl game with Air Force. 
"Me and my brother drove down to Memphis, and when we got to the hospital there must've been 100 people in line, waiting to go in to see him," Gaines recalled. 
He wondered how the people would react once they learned who he was. 
"I knew it wasn't my fault," he said. "But I still felt guilty because I was a participant. And I couldn't help but wonder what all those people were thinking about me." 
Once inside, Gaines experi­
"I really had a fun year," said Daulton, whose career nearly ended in June 1986 with a se­vere knee injury. "And I think we are headed in the right di­rection. If we can acquire a quality pitcher we can win." 
Daulton said that despite the reconstructive knee surgery that handicapped him for mon~ than two seasons, "I always thought in my heart and mind I'd reach this level of play. And I'm going to do a lot better." 
Giles said he always had ad­mired Daulton because "he's a workaholic. I like people who show extra effort and dedica­tion." 
Daulton had been seeking a four-or even five-year contract, but changed his direction when the subject of retaining his free­agency rights after three years instead of five was put on the table. 
Giles said he had told Daulton's agent that the club president was goin-g on vaca­tion as of Wednesday night, and that if they didn't reach agreement by then, it wouldn't before free-agent negotiations began. That meant the catcher would lose the three-year free agency rights. 
The Phillies also announced the signing of Johnny Podres, 58, as pitching coach to succeed Darold Knowles, who was released after last season. 
enced the "most humbling ex­perience of my life." 
He explained: "The last time I saw Chucky, he was a big, strong football player, playing in the SEC, which has some of the best athletes in America. I go in there, and he's lying on his back with tubes stuck all in him. He couldn't move. He could barely talk." 
Gaines visited with Chucky about 30 minutes. Neither men­tioned the play. "We just small­talked," Gaines said. "I told him to hang in there, to keep praying." 
Gaines broke down on his way to the elevator. ''I'm a fighter and a competitor," he said. "But that trip to see Chucky showed me a whole new side to playing games." 
Soccer 
contimued from page 16 
was able to convert on oppor­tunities, leaving the score tied. 
Overall, the Belles ended the season tying the school record for wins in a season with 12, and recorded the fewest losses by any Saint Mary's varsity soccer team (3). Coach Van Meter, pleased with the success of the season, commented on the overall improvements in Saint Mary's soccer, and the school's move to Division Ill. 
"I thought it was a great sea­son," he said. "No one blew us out on that level. It it weren't for the few bumps along the way, we would have made it to post-season, after just one sea­son." 
"I think that being in Division III adds more credibility to the program and to Saint Mary's athletics in general." 

(Sorry it's late)
The er-ings ...U I 
THE AMERICAN HEART

------------------------· 
Soulb ol Unlvalllty PIIR Mall 211•I 29 
ASSG::IATION MEMORIAL PR<I;RAMe

5901 Grape Rd. 24-hour answering service Your adoring Love Bunnies 
Mishawaka. IN <\eM~ 
Heidi, Bambi, and Candi 
-


----~----~ ~--~--~ -~ 
~--~ 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 1 , 1990 
Rangers knock off Kings; Sabres, Canadiens win 
NEW YORK (AP) -Darren Thrcotte set up two second-pe­riod goals and scored the clincher in a five-goal third pe­riod as the New York Rangers routed the Los Angeles Kings 9­4 Wednesday night in a battle between the NHL's two hottest teams. 
The Patrick Division-leading Rangers (11-3-0) won their eighth home game in as many tries and 11th in 12 games overall. They cooled off the Smythe-leading Kings, who came into the game with a 9-2­1 record and the best winning percentage in the league. 
Turcotte set up goals by Paul Broten and Ray Sheppard in the first 1:15 of the second period for a 4-2 lead. His seventh goal of the season capped a three­goal outburst in a 1:55 span that gave New York a 7-3 lead. 
Sabres 3, Bruins 3 

BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP)-Ray Bourque, returning to Boston's lineup after a four-game ab­sence with a shoulder injury, set up Bob Carpenter's game­tying goal midway through the third period as the Bruins tied the Sabres. 
Carpenter tied the game at 
10:15 of the third period after Rick Vaive had given the Sabres a 3-2 lead at 8:08, beating Reggie Lemelin with a shot on which Bourque screened his goaltender. 
Craig Janney and Dave Christian also scored for the Bruins, while Alexander Mogilny and Mikko Makela were Buffalo's other goal scor­ers. Boston is 0-5-1 in its last six road games. 
Canadiens 4, Whalers 2 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Russ Courtnall scored twice, in­cluding the go-ahead goal in the second period, as Montreal handed Hartford its fifth straight loss. 
Courtnall tied the game 1-1 at 
14:25 of the first period, then put his team ahead to stay at 
8:43 of the second period on a breakaway for a 3-2 lead. 
The Canadiens added an in­surance goal at 15:48 of the second period when Petr Svoboda's slap shot deflected off Brian Skrudland's leg and into the net to make it 4-2. Denis Savard had Montreal's other goal. 
Patrick Roy made 24 saves for the Canadiens, allowing first­period goals by Sylvain Cote and Randy Cunneyworth. 

Westhead believes his system will work in the NBA 
DENVER (AP) -A man with a vision has no time to picture defeat. 
"Is it possible this system won't work in the NBA?" Paul Westhead paused, repeating the question as though this were the first time he had ever con­sidered it. 
"Maybe. I'm not going to say categorically 'No.· But that is something that will be proven to me," he added, "only after I'm satisfied that the system is in place." 
On the back wall of the Denver Nuggets office that Westhead inherited from Doug Moe nearly two months ago, there are 13 picture hooks, but no pictures. Since walking away from his job at Loyola Marymount and back into the NBA. he has made no time for anything but the system. Pro basketball, Westhead is convinced, will be made ready for the next century now or not at all. 
"What's going on here is best described as walking a tightrope stretched between two tall buildings," he said. "You have to have wits, courage, balance and you must think you are not going to fall. If you think you'll fall, you will. 
"If you master this system, you get to the penthouse sooner than the guy who would rather walk down the street, walk in the door, take the elevator and not care if he gets there 10 minutes later." 
Like most high-wire acts, this is something that has to be seen to be believed -if not believed in. 

Employing a fast-break of­fense every trip up the floor and a full-court, gambling, trapping defense every trip down it, this is Westhead's ver­sion of Dr. Naismith's game played with a finger glued to the fast-forward button. When his college teams played this way, he often referred to the 45-second clock as the "4-to-5­second clock." With the time frame pared to 24 seconds in the NBA, Westhead is fretting now about fractions of seconds. 
One writer has likened the system to football's two-minute drill played for 60, or a hockey power play that begins at face­off and never ends. Boston Celtic great Bob Cousy saw it two weeks ago and called it "schoolyard basketball." 
Phoenix coach Cotton Fitzsimmons saw it and didn't know what to call it. "I cannot describe to you that game," he said afterward. "You had to be there to see it." 
In six of the eight exhibition games the Nuggets played with the system's incendiary devices, they were burned beyond recognition. In the first one, Fitzsimmons' Suns threw down 32 dunks en route to a 186-123 win; in the third, the Atlanta Hawks scored 116 points in the second half of a 194-166 vic­tory; in the fourth, the Boston Celtics shot 70 percent from the field in a 173-155 runaway. 
Being kind, a primer of the Nuggets' preseason might read something like this: See Denver run. Denver can run. See their opponents laugh. Their oppo­nents -taller, stronger, more experienced -can run, too. 
Being less kind, the newspa­pers are having a field day. Westhead is lampooned as Dr. Strangehoop, Dr. Frankenstein and Dr. Flubber -every out-of­his-mind medical man, it seems, but Dr. Jekyll. 
His conditioning programs were recounted with reverence and labeled innovative just a few short months ago during 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990·1991 
SAl NT MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
---Iii------­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME I ~DJA;-.;A 
Loyola Marymount's breathtak­ing run through the NCAA tournament. Now they are quirky; photos of the Nuggets running wind sprints in a swimming pool are daily fare. 
One story recalled how eight years ago, during a brief stint as coach of the Bulls, Westhead may have greased his departure from Chicago by trying to convince some players they would run faster and jump higher by wearing necklaces (called "energy bars") with liquid mercury in them. Several more have used his background as a college teacher of Shakespeare to fashion punchlines. 
The humor underpinning this is supposed to be that every­body knows how funny his seri­ousness is except Westhead. 
That once he has wised up and lost enough games, this stubborn adherence to the system. this insistence that the Nuggets will learn Plan A because there is no Plan B. will go by the boards. That while an ali-or-nothing approach was fine for college kids, the guys who play for pay (often five times as much as the coach is making) and the guys who pay them will not sit still much longer. That Westhead will remember the lesson of a decade ago, when after winning consecutive championships with the Los Angeles Lakers, he was fired the day after Magic Johnson issued his "him or me" proclamation. 
If so, he has not gotten the message. 
How to start your law career 6efore you start 
law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands ofLSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
one pre-law CL urse that determines the 
course ofyou: law career. 
'"'":>r-.'\ ~(e;~\ f KAPLAN
,,~(.) ~ ~0 \'}.\ ~\.,'3-( c\'3-..;; STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DON'T COMPETE WITI-1 A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 116637 
Phone 21~/272-4135 

----~--~----~------~ 
. lA 

Thursday, November 1, 1990 The Observer page 15 

CAMPUS 

2 p.m. Presentation "Computer Networ~s ~nd Collaborative Learning: The Challenge of Teachmg m a Chaotic Environment," Paul Taylor, University of Texas, Austin. Room 103 Computing Center/Math Building. Refreshments will be served. Sponsored by OUC and the College of Arts and Letters. 
4 p.m. History and Science Graduate Colloquium, "The Disappearance of Galenism in the 13th Century," Prof. Mark Jordan, Medieval Institute. Room _221. O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by the Departments of History 
and Science. 
4 p.m. The Indiana Consortium on Latin All_lerica ~ectu~e, "Mexico City Poor House, 1774-1821: An ~xpenment ~n ~Cial Policies Toward the Urban Poor, Associate Prof. Silvia M. Arrom, Indiana University. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Recursive Groups," Prof. Sarah Oates, Purdue University. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Department of 
Mathematics. 
8 p.m. Shakespeare's "As You Like It," Actors from the Royal Shakespeare Company. Washington Hall. Admission $6 for students, $8 for senior citizens and $10 for public. (Tickets available at the LaFortune Student Center Information Desk.) Sponsored by Provost's Office. 
8 p.m. Film, "Dirty Harry," Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
10 p.m. Film, "Dirty Harry," Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Lemon Baked Cod Stir Fry Beef & Green Pepper Rotellini w/ Spring Veg 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
39 Scottish 25 Cat, in Cadiz nightshirt -=+::+:-+:-! 28 Having a 43 To the rear of a holiday ship 
CROSSWORD 
54 Lip-(sing, in a way) 
55 Topper 
57 Word with wear or water 58 Hit song sung by 22 Across 60 Vermont marble 
center 61 Debauchee &2 Part of the 
handwriting on 
the wall 
&3Im prove 
64 Make a boo-boo J.:.::-+-+-­
65 These may be martial 
DOWN 

1 Cluny, e.g. 
2 Pigment for 
Gainsborough 3 Kind of balloon 4 Dry, as wine 
... 
5 He's a Wonder 
6 Jewish month 
7 Ambassador's res. 
29 Half of CIV 
a--pearl 
30Work unit (nacre) 31 Eddie's spouse90n land 32 Gear tooth 
10Diadem 
33Numero­1t Of the kidneys 34-on (urge) 
12 Annoyed 36 Puttered 
14Jonathan or aimlesslyTom 37TardynGenghis-36 Amo, am as, 23 Falls back 
44 "-service" (waiter's phrase) 
45 Skin disease 46 SPAR's org. 47 Island off 
Venezuela 48 Two hours before noon 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

Q-.1 T"t. Ot-lt. 1-l"-t-ll:l, IrS ~ 
GooO SIGN RJR \JS fl..RTI':.TS 1"\.lr>-.\, If\\ W.l5 fl..G't. Of 'J\SIJ"-l BOM~fl..Q.OM£N\ ~tl\ N..l ~tll 
A. S\1'<\l'll: DRAWl~~ ON PR!:l~JOK.E. A.t-lD S\.IOCK. '/\t.W£12.~. 
IT CO~f\R~5 11-111--1 \M~S r---~,------. S\ILL ~"-'JE ~WER. 
to\~ "C-" FIR~L~ C\.\A.LL£NGt5 ""ME I<.N~·N<:lW.ING 
'f\.1\<:, DR.NtllN.G l DID ~10\JSL'i 
!;:SThBl\S"£.S COMI'LA.QtK~ Of moSE \'1\b 
!'<\£ 01'\ 1\\t. PREFER SAFE, PRt.DtGEsrEO, 
C\JTfiNG EI)G.£ 
OF 1\-\E A.\/r>.~I-GEN.R't SC£~6. 
BUC.Ol\C. 

G,...RDt. ~~....._ 


CHARTING 'P~RCE:IVE'D .ATT&flGTIVCNE:GS AT THE: BAR 
The fate of Don King's great-great-grandfather 
49 Department in central France 50 Concernin'J 51 Church officer 52 Former Red Sox pitcher 56 Hennas sa Land measure 59 Singer Sumac 



ACROSS 
1Scads 5-Annede Beaupre a Kind of lineage 13 "God's Little 
-":Caldwell 14 Flower stalk 15Willow 16 Orchestra 
leader who promoted 22 Across 
18 Express gratitude 19 Monroe's­of Good Feeling 20Center of activity 21 Dike, Eunomia and Eirene 
22 Jazz singer from Newport News, Va. 
26 Poker stake 27 Swiss river 28ACassini 31 Division word 32 Hint 35 Apt title for 22 
Across 40 Trifling amount 41 "-Camera" 42 Excited 43 Former 
Broadway org. 44 River in E Asia 47 Song made 
famous by 22 Across 53 Income for Pierre 



Sports 

Thursday, November 1, 1990
page 16 

Men's soccer will face St. Louis in MCC Tourney 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 

With a 4-10-3 record, the Notre Dame men's soccer team probably couldn't be blamed if they hung their heads or devel­oped a negative attitude. 
Well, this team is not one to pout on might-have-beens or what-ifs. Instead, they're look­ing ahead to their first-round MCC Tournament match with Saint Louis, a nationally-ranked team. 
"We want to use this as an opportunity to turn our season around," said senior co-captain Danny Stebbins. 
The two teams played earlier this season at Moose Krause Stadium, with the Billikens pulling out a 3-2 win, scoring the game winner with only 11 minutes left to play. The Irish played an exciting game against a good Saint Louis team, and attracted a spirited crowd. 
After that promising start, Notre Dame has struggled. The Irish have lost their last three games, and five of their last six. Notre Dame did play well in its last game, however, a 3-2 overtime loss to Florida International, and it might have 
Volleyball hopes to rebound vs. Illinois 
"I was talking to a friend the 
other day, and he said that two 
of SLU's best guys are out for 
the game," said Stebbins. 

The last two years have seen 
the Irish facing the Billikens in 
the MCC Tournament, with 
Notre Dame knocking Saint 
Louis off two years ago on its 
way to the MCC Championship, 
and losing 2-1 last year. 

The seniors have a special 
motivation to play well, as their 
playing days are numbered, but 
the LaVigne twins also have 
another reason to play well ­
they come from Saint Louis. 
"This could be our last colle­
giate soccer experience," said 
Paul LaVigne. "There'll be 
about 100 people we know in 
the stands. We definitely want 
to play well." 

The Irish are certainly under­
dogs in this match, which may 
actually work in their favor. 
They appear loose going into 
the match, and are confident 
knowing that they played the 
Billikens tough earlier this sea­
son. Add in the desire of the se­
niors, who are facing the end of 
their career, and you have a 
dangerous team. At the very 
least, expect Notre Dame to 
hang close. 

·sMC soccer ends record year 
even won the game if they hadn't had four goals called back. 
The Billikens, on the other hand, have enjoyed a successful season, playing its way to a 14­3-2 record and a second-seed berth in the MCC Tournament. Saint Louis goalkeeper Kevin Johnston has a GAA of 0.88, and has eight shutouts on the year. 
Even so, the Irish don't sound like underdogs. 
"This is the best draw we could get under the circum­stances," said senior co-captain Paul LaVigne. "We know we can beat SLU." 
Part of Notre Dame's confi­dence comes from its new style of defense. Although the system itself is the same, a change of approach suits the Irish players better. 
"We slow the pace down, and let them come to us," said LaVigne. 
Danny Stebbins echoed LaVigne's comments. 
"We played really well [against FlU] with the new style," he said. 
A phone call Danny Stebbins had the other day also gave the Irish some more hope. 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's volleyball team hopes to put a halt to its five-game losing streak tonight when it hosts the 13th-ranked Illinois Fighting Illini at 7:30 p.m. in the pit of the Joyce ACC. SportsChannel will tape the match for broadcast at a later date. 
Illinois, bringing a 15-7 mark into the match, has been a tough test of late for the Irish. In their 1988 NCAA Tournament clash, the Illini got off to a slow start, losing the first two games before taking the match in five games. 
Last year, the Irish jumped out to a quick start before go­ing down in defeat, 15-6, 15­10, 12-15, 7-15, 15-9. The Illini are by no means invincible, though. 
"Both teams have had rough seasons," commented Irish sophomore Marilyn Cragin. "We've had some tough prac­tices in the past few days, so we should be able to come out and give them a good match." 
Despite coming up short in their last five outings, the in­jury-plagued Irish have made some adjustments in hopes of finding the right combinations. Last Sunday at Penn State, the Irish played well but lost in three games, 8-15, 9-15, and 4-15 to the 31-0 Nittany Lions. 
"We lost to Penn State, but we gave them a good match," said Cragin, who registered 13 kills for the Irish in the Penn State loss. 
While the losses have been difficult and often, the Irish want to begin a win streak tonight that will take them into the fmalleg of a grueling schedule. 
"We're looking forward to giving them a good match," said Cragin. 


By CHRIS BACON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's soccer team wrapped up its first NCAA Division III season on the road this past weekend, defeating Bowling Green University and tying with College of Wooster, finishing its season at 12-3-2. 
The Belles, coming off their week-long layoff, experienced unexpected turbulence in win­ning a 1-0 match against a Bowling Green club team. 
"I thought we played well, considering we had a week off. We just had to gel," said Belles Head Coach Tom Van Meter. 
"I think that the week off hurt us. We came out slow and it was tougher than we ex­pected," said senior Trisha Troester. 
Troester scored the Belles' only point midway through the first half. On a Bowling Green goal shot, Troester beat her de­fender and drove in a 20-yard shot for the score. 
"I was on offense and the de­fender was out of place. I just happened to be in the right spot," said Troester. 
The team contained Bowling Green throughout the rest of the match. But in the second half, with strong winds on their side, Bowling Green made sev­eral offensive strikes against the Belles. Junior goalie Mary Alice O'Neill's outstanding per­formance saved the Belles from a possible defeat. 
"I really didn't feel the pres­sure. I was just doing my job. It was instinct," said O'Neill. "I think that the defense as a whole played well." 
"Bowling Green made some key shots. The wind was favor­ing them and Mary Alice had to make back to back saves," added coach Van Meter. "That really cooled their momentum." 
On Sunday the Belles travelled to then 18th-ranked College of Wooster. In an evenly played, aggressive match, the 
Belles  tied  Wooster  1-1,  
ruining all hopes of a  p£•st­ 
season bid.  

The Belles came out strong offensively. Just four min Ites into the game, junior for• 1ard Greer Gilliland scored the team's only point off of an ssist from sophomore center half Kristen Crowley. 
"I was really pumped u '· We all really wanted to beL this team," said Giililand. "We needed the win for post~season and they need the win for tour­nament play also." 
"We definitely outplayed them in the first half. We played them evenly in the second half," coach Van Meter commented. "But the problem was us not converting on opportunities." 
Wooster's offense came alive in the second half. With just eight minutes left in the match, Wooster scored, tying the match at 1-1. The match went into overtime, but neither team 
see SOCCER/page 13 
Men's tennis plays in Volvo's 
ByCOQUESE WASHINGTON 
Sports Writer 

While most of the student body was recovering from their fall break festivities this past weekend, the Men's Tennis Squad was in Athens, Georgia, participating in the Volvo All­America tournament. 
This tournament, part of the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association's Grand Slam, is one of the most important matches of the year, featuring 150 of the most outstanding players from across the coun­try. 
Dave DiLucia, the No. 1 sin­gles player for Notre Dame and lOth-ranked player in the coun­try, begins play today. He was one of 32 players who received an automatic entry into the main tournament, exempting him from Pre-Qualifying activ­ity. His opponent will be Chris Cocotos, ranked last year as the No. 1 junior player. 
Of the seven Irish players who played in the Pre-Qualifying tournament, sophomore Chuck Coleman advanced the farthest. He defeated Chad Lowery of Murray State without losing a set, and continued on to win his next three matches to advance to the Qualifying tournament. He there lost to Patricio Arnold of Georgia, the No. 1 player in Argentind, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. Coleman put on a magnificent performance before Arnold got on top of his game and put it out of reach. 
Mark Schmidt also won his first three matches to reach the qualifying round, but was forced to withdraw when, after complaining of a sore throat and tiredness, he was diag­nosed with mononucleosis. 
Ryan Wenger and Tad Eckert were both victorious in the opening round before being ousted from the tournament. Wenger defeated Marti Maure of Washington 5-7, 6-4, 7-5, prior to his loss at the hands of Karl Schulsze of Alabama 6-2, 6-3, while Eckert lost to Bart Aanes 6-2, 6-4, after soundly defeating Jay Harris of Cincinnati 6-1, 6-2. 
Sophomores Ronnie Rosas and Andy Zurcher both lost in the first round to Mike Knowles of Mississippi and Chris Munnerlyn of Clemson, respec­tively. 
"I was really pleased with ev­eryone's play," said Coach Bob Bayliss. "This type of competi­tion will prepare us well for our season, when we play four of the top five teams in the nation, and a host of schools ranked in the Top 20." 


