
VOL XXIII NO. 135 TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1990. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hofman ends 40 years at NO, leaves a legend 
By ANDREA CAVANAUGH 
dean of the Freshman Year of man's time at Notre Dame,News Writer • Photos I page 4 Studies. 
espncially his chmnistry classes. 

l~mil Hofman, currently dnan Hofman's many awards tes­Students report dreadingof tlw Frnshman Y11ar of Stud­convinced him to become a tify to his devotion in teaching quizzes they tcrnwd "Emils." ins, is retiring at the nnd of this tPaehnr. 
and in promoting excellence Before tests, students com­yPar. Aft1~r 40 years of hard t\fter completing his M.S. de­within the Notre Dame commu­monly recited the "Our Father" 
work in various capaeitins, hn gree at Notre Dame, he became nity. with a slight revision to "deliver 
will bn lnaving the UnivNsity. part of the faculty of the chem­• In 1963, ho was tho first re­them from Emil." llofrnan said it was limn for istry department. In accepting cipient of the Thomas P. Mad­During finals week, Ilofman 
him to rntirn because "when this position, he interrupted his den Award for excellence in formed a paradn with different you ar1~ 70 years old. you havn Ph.D. research. He said, "I teaching freshman. themes in order to lighten the 
to think about tlwsn things." loved the teaching so much, I • In 1982, he received the students' mood. lie dressed as 
lin plans to stay in South Bend delayed the research." James E. Armstrong Award in Bruce Springsteen or Notre and promises he will not do Balancing his research and recognition of his outstanding Dame's quarterback, 007, and 
anything he "does not want to." teaching, he managed to com­Emil Hofman service to the University and his proceeded with his teaching as­Hegardl1~ss of what he does, plete his Ph.D. in 1960. tant dean in the College of personal qualities that reflect sistants to tlw site of the final 
llofman hop1~s he will bn abln to Science. the principles of the University. exam. 
n~main involved in the Univer­In 1963, he was appointed to Two of Hofman's important •In 1983, A scholarship was Hofman has many stories to sity. assistant chairman of the accomplishments are the endowed in his honor for un­tell of students who performedlie nntered Notre Dame in chemistry department. Hofman Teacher Training Institute dergraduate students at the poorly freshman year but re­
1950 as a chnmistry graduate implemented many creative which educated high school University. ceived a 4.0 senior year, and 
student and teaching assistant. programs to increase the qual­teachers for their M.S. degree • In 1987, he received the students who paid their wayllofrnan had always hoped to ity of the students' education. and directed the International Shilts/ Leonard Teaching through school and now are havn a carnnr in industry bul His energy and creativity soon Science and Engineering Fair. Award in the College of Science. 
working as a teaching assistant earned him the office of assis-In 1971, he was appointed _Many storjes surround Hof-see HOFMAN I page6 
Shiites release American hostage Reed; Bush thanks Syria and Iran for assistance 
DAMASCUS, Syria (APJ -He was freed in Beirut at 8:30 could be no rest "until ali Anwrican hostage Frank Heed p.m. (1:30 p.m. EDT), Syrian hostages are free." was frond Monday aftnr being officials said, and was driven to There are still 16 Westerners, lwld for 43 "endless" months, the Syrian capital, where For­including six Americans, held in much of tlw time blindfolded, eign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa Lebanon. by Shiite Moslem kidnappers in turned him over to U.S. ambas­"I hope this is a forerunner LdHtnon. lin was the sneond sador Edward Djerejian. to the release of the other Arrwrican fnwd in nirw days. lie left Damascus at 2.22 American hostages and the 
"I'd like to tell my family, a.m. Tuesday (7:22 p.m. EDT others from other countries 
~~specially my son Tan~k. that Monday) on a U.S. military held against their will," Bush 
his daddy is wPII. ll11 is a littln transport plane headed for the said. 
skinny, hut he will bn home very U.S. Air Foree Base at Wies­The Iranian newspaper 
soon." tlw 57 -year-old edueator baden, West Germany, where he Tehran Times said Tuesday 
from Malden. Mass., told state­will undergo medical checks that unless Washington an­
run Syrian TV after his release. and a debriefing by a State De­swers the latest releases with 
In tlw Boston suburb of partment team. goodwill gestures, no more Malden. Hnnd's Syrian Moslem President Bush hailed Heed's Americans will go free. witi~. Fahirna "Fif'i" Heed. 3<J, release as Bush welcomed Heed, who appeared pale and saw lwr husband on television former hostage Hobert Polhill had grown a white beard, said and exclaimed, "lin looks to the White House, another at a briefing at the ministry gr-nat! lin's in a suit. ... I want U.S. educator who was freed in that he could not answer some to sl'~: nv1~rybody happy as I am Lebanon on April 22 after 39 questions out of concern for now. months in captivity. Bush 
those still held -"I do not 

Hned. who lived in Beirut thanked Syria and Iran for want to say,anything that could Fifi Reed (right) smiles with family members while holding a photographsince I977, convnrtnd to Islam their help in securing the re­harm them. . . of her husband Frank, who was freed by captors yesterday. Frankto marry Fahirna. Tarek is leases and said "things seem to The freed capttve appeared m Reed has been held captive for the past 43 months in Lebanon.
tlwir 9-ynar-old son. be moving," but that there reasonable health. 

Nelson says resources are top world issue 
By MIKE OWEN 
News Writer • Press conference I page 3 
The status of our re­devise some way of getting it 
sources induding air, water, in," said Nelson. 
soil, ()(~eans and natural The idea was suggested by 
beauty is the most important Nelson to Hubert Humphrey 
issue facing the world today and John Kennedy in the 
since it effects the quality of early 1960s but was never 
our livns, according to Gay­taken as a serious issue 
lord Nelson, the founder of facing the nation. 
J·:arth Day.. "It was not until I visited 
Nelson, a former senator Santa Barbara, Calif. in July 
in Wisconsin, gave a brief of 1969 after one of the 
history of Ear:th Day and worst oil spills occurred 
outlined some Iii' the tactics there in January of that year 
we should usn to help save that the issue started to get 
the environment in his some backing." Nelson said. 
spnneh "The Greening of The actual idea for an 
American Politics." Earth Day was announced 
The purpose of the first later that year in Sept. while 
Earth Day was to bring the Nelson was speaking in 
idea of environmental Seattle. Nelson stated that 
awareness into mainstream the idea of Earth Day gained 
America, according to popularity because it was a 
Nelson. positive issue being raised 
"Many years before the on college campuses at a 
first Earth Day, the issue of time when so many issues 
the environment was not in were negative ones. 
the political mainstream. 

The important issue was to see EARTH I page 6 
Meeting people key for transfe~s . 
By PAUL PEARSON 

ND, she was. placed tn ~h~ Col-Assistant News Editor 
lege of Busmess AdmmJstra­tion. "I didn't want to be there, Two Notre Dame transfer 
urr~IDITi:l®~®rr but that's where I ended up," students said that they prefer 
she said.

~~[\J]@@[)l)~@ 
If she were asked to give a Gina Mahony, a transfer from ND to their previous colleges. 
The second of a two part series potential transfer student ad­James Madison University, is '----------------' vice, Mahony would say. "Jiang proof that the process of trans­day of classes. "I was really in there. Things always work ferring can be socially reward­lucky," she said. out." , ing. Campus budgeting is one of One person who wants to help 
In Craig Tiller's case, the lack the differences Mahony sees things work out for next year's of social interaction during his since coming to Notre Dame. transfers is Tiller, the 1990 transfer period led him to be­"Everything is so tightly bud­transfer orientation coordina­come involved with transfer geted. You can see it in how tor. Tiller, who transferred to orientation, a process that will well they keep up the halls and ND from Western Michigan this year involve many activities the quality of the campus." University in 1987, knows what to help students adjust socially. Mahony also says she enjoys these students go through. 
According to Mahony, who ND's student body. ''I've had a 
transferred last year, ND is great time here. People defi­The fifth-year arehitncturn "much more demanding aca­nitely know how to have fun," student from Portage, Michigan demically" than James Madi­she said. said that his own transfer ori­son. Despite all its advantages, entation "wasn't really that 
Mahony, a junior government according to Mahony, ND can­good. It was basically getting major from Annandale, Vir­not beat James Madison in one us registered. There wasn't too ginia, was put on the waiting category-the food. "The food much social interaction." list when she applied during her [at James Madison] was one of freshman year. When she was the tops in the country." When asked how much he accepted as a transfer student Making friends at ND was learned about the campus from last year, she faced one big not a problem for Mahony be­his orientation, Tiller replied, "I problem: housing. "I drove out cause she was on the swim didn't. I knew about the campus here with no place to live." team and in ROTC. "I immedi­from football games and stuff 
She lived off-campus for a ately had 50 people I knew," like that, but when they ori­week, but received a room in she said. Siegfried Hall before the first When Mahony first arrived at see TRANSFER I page 6 

~-~--------~---------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Parietal patrol: Chastity Guard on duty 
The clock strikes 2 a.m.; parietals are now in effect. A steady stream of men begin to flow out of every female dorm on campus. What power­ful force drives these 

men so quickly out Jeanne Blasi 
the door? Standing 
in •the doorway, Design Assistant 
smugly glaring at all these men, is the Chastity Guard, gun in hand and ready for action. 
She uses any means possible to protect the virtue of ND women. From ESP to her bloodhound's nose, she is trained to detect the signs of a helpless female falling prey to the charms of a nasty boy. Remember, every room is a bedroom. 
In some dorms, the guard makes rounds through the hallways, peeking under door­ways on her hands and knees, holding a glass up to the door to listen for male sounds, and sniffing for the aroma of cologne in her quest for virtue. The Univer­sity even plans to install new, larger key­holes in all the women's dorms. Money is also being set aside to purchase supersonic glasses to pick up extra sounds through doors. 
One Chastity Guard was even seen hanging from the roof by a rope as she peered through the windows. After this incidence, the University proposed to purchase a new fleet of helicopters to make their endeavors less life-threatening. 
After 2 a.m., a few brave men dare to stay with their dates in 24-hour lounges, strictly monitored by the Chastity Guards. 
They are brilliantly lit and if a light goes off. alarms sound loudly and the Chastity Guard rushes in, gun in hand, and escorts the guy out the door by his ear. 
The "four-feet-on-the-floor" rule must be strictly observed at all times. This rule eliminates any type of "close encounters of the horizontal kind." 
Violators receive the harshest punishment. Male violators are usually castrated on sight and female violators are lectured pro­fusely on averting the typical ND male's drive. In extreme cases, the violator must pin a large scarlet "C" on her at all times to remind her of evils of temptation. 
Some evil women find ways to get around the Chastity Guard. For example, some claim to have developed a sixth sense that alerts them when she is on the prowl. Others delegate lookouts or set up traps to warn of her arrival. 
The most daring try to break parietals (Note: breaking parietals and having "social gatherings" do NOT occur at ND). However, the addition of non-removable screens on the windows makes this feat more difficult now. Since the men can no longer hide on the window ledges, women must disguise or hide their male compan­ions in their rooms. One has to wonder, though, when she sees a laundry bag walk­ing by itself to the bathroom at 4 a.m. 
It's nice to know that while Big Brother monitors the people of Beijing, Big Sister is on the lookout for walking laundry bags. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff:  
Production Wendy Cunningham Jeanne Blasi  News Amy Leroux Monica Yant  Systems Gilbert Gomez Deb Walker  
Pete Yob  
VIeWpOint Julie Shepherd  Accent  Graphics Bradford J. Boehm  
Kathy Welsh  Catherine Danahy  
Circulation  
Sports Frank Pastor  Ad Design Amy Eckert  Chris Hanley Lu Medeiros  
Ken Tysiac  Kelly McHugh  

Quinn Satepauhoodle 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through· Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer Tuesday, May 1. 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, May 1. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
National high:102 (Presido, Texas) National low: 7 (Pinedale, Wy.) 
Yesterday's high: 69 
Yesterday's low: 50 
Forecast: Partly sunny and cool today. Highs in the middle-to upper 50s. Tomorrow cloudy with a chance of rain. Highs to­morrow in the upper 50s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Transfer students interested in helping with next year's transfer orientation should attend a manda­tory meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Montgomery The­atre in LaFortune. We will be compiling a list and giving specific information about the fall schedule. 
A Mother's Day pottery sale will be held May 2 and May 3, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the Ri­ley/O'Shaughnessy lawn. 
WORLD 
Boris Yeltsin was taken to a hospital in Spain yesterday with a slipped disc and was to undergo back surgery, regional television said. The outspoken Soviet Congress deputy, who has a history of heart trouble, arrived in Barcelona Sunday night and was to have appeared on a television 

panel show Monday. The television, TV-3, said Yeltsin would be oper­ated on at Barcelona Hospital. TV-3 said Yeltsin had complained of back pain during the day and had canceled a scheduled news conference and meeting with officials. 
NATIONAL 
California Polytechnic State University 
President Warren Baker has called off future celebrations of the annual Poly Royal festival for an indefinite period after a morning meeting with San Luis Obispo Mayor Ron Dunin. On Friday and Saturday nights, party-goers hurled rocks and bottles at police officers, who used tear gas and fire hoses to disperse crowds. Sixty-four people were injured, including 14 police officers, and there were 110 arrests. 
Amtrak would have to suspend passenger rail service to Florida if a judge rules that it must quit dumping sewage from moving trains, Amtrak's president testified yesterday. U.S. District Judge Howell Melton is to decide if the national railroad can be prosecuted for dumping waste in northern Florida waterways. Amtrak appealed to federal court after a state jury found Amtrak guilty in of four felony counts of commercial littering. 
MARKET UPDATE INDIANA 
Closings for April 30, 1990 

A dozen fires set on the Indiana University campus in Bloomington within 16 days appear to be random and probably are not the result of a single arsonist, the campus police chief said yesterday. The 12 fires set since April 14 have caused thousands of dollars in damages, said IU Police Chief George Huntington. The School of Music and Fine Arts buildings have been hit twice. 
S&P Composite 
329.11 \7 3.81 

Gov. Evan Bayh announced plans Dow Jones Industrials yesterday for a regional office complex in Gary 2,656.76 {}11.72 that will improve access to four state agencies 
Precious Metals
for residents in northwest Indiana. "State 
government provides services that affect the daily Gold \7 $2.60 to $371.40 1oz. 
lives of every Hoosier," Bayh said. "Therefore, Silver{} 1.5¢ to $4.932 I oz.
state government offices should be conveniently located in every region of the state." Source: AP 

Washington D.C. Club will be driving two trucks back to Washington D.C. for anyone wishing to send personals home. Club members will be receiving a bulletin in the mail with further details. Anyone with questions should call 271-5691 or 283-1416 on campus. 
Female singers interested in forming a contem­porary a cappella group should contact Margaret at 283­4081. 
Peasants in an Andean mountain village in Peru stoned to death a local leader of a Shining Path guerrilla group along with his mother and sister, police said yesterday. Police said almost 200 peasants attacked Similiano Chavez Yanac and his sister, Vitaliana, as they were visiting their 65-year-old mother, Alberta, in the town of Huamarin, 180 miles north of Lima. Chavez, 43, and his 35-year-old sister were members of the Maoist­inspired Shinning Path group and were armed with auto­matic weapons, police said. The mob beat the three with sticks and then stoned them to death, police said. They said Chavez has led a guerrilla force for years. 
Jurors in Imelda Marcos' fraud trial in New York were told yesterday about $1 million in newly­minted Philippine pesos and jewelry that were seized after the Marcoses fled to Hawaii. Twenty-two boxes of currency and jewelry, including a diamond tiara, were on a U.S. Air Force plane that followed the Marcoses to this country on Feb. 26, 1986, the day after Ferdinand Marcos was ousted as president, U.S. agent Leslie Kinney said. 
Americans will spend an average of two hours per day, the equivalent of seven years over a lifetime, sitting in front of the tube, according to a 13­year study of viewers released yesterday. The findings were published in a book, "Television and the Quality of Life: How Viewing Shapes Everyday Experience." Viewers in the study reported their hours in front of the tube made them feel worse rather than better. 
ALMANAC 
On May 1: e1n 1884: Construction began on the first skyscraper, a 10­story structure in Chicago built by the Home Insurance Co. of New York. e1n 1931: New York's 102­story Empire State Building was dedicated. 
eln 1967: Entertainer Elvis Presley married Priscilla Beaulieu in Las Vegas. eJn 1987: During a visit to West Germany, Pope John Paul II beatified Edith Stein, a Jew­ish-born Carmelite nun who was gassed in the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz during the Holocaust. 


" 


By SANDRA WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
A "conservation ethic" must become a part of the U.S. cul­ture. encouraging people to consider tho impact their ac­tions will havo on tho environ­mont, according to Gaylord Nelson, tho founder of Earth Day. 
Nelson. who spoke at a press confernnce Monday, served as a Wisconsin senator from 1962 to 1980. A· "conservation gen­

The Observer/Bill Mowle 
eration" must be raised. hn

Showers for the end of April 
said, and education is the key. Nelson was recently asked

The last day of April was one of the first days the fountain, located 
what legislation he would have

just outside of LaFortune Student Center, was activated. Yester­
passed if he had the choice, he

day also saw temperatures moderating from recent summer-like 
said, and answered that "every
readings as rain and cooler weather took over. 
single school in the U.S., grades K through 12, should have an environmental element in every 
Now in our new location: 


course."
1724 N Ironwood Dr. 
Such legislation has been
South Bend, IN 
passed in Wisconsin, he said,
272-0129 

adding that if it reached a na­tional level, "the president wouldn't bo able to stand by si­lently as he has." Bicycles by: • Thule car racks 
Hegarding what has some­

*Raleigh •Basso •Giordana clothing 
times been called a lack of ac­

•Bridgestone •Miele • Diad ora shoes 
tion by President Bush, who

•Eddy Merckx •DeRosa •CIC heart rate monitors 
claims to be the

•Pinarello • Exceed sport nutritional 
"Environmental President,"

supplements 
Nelson said, "I think it's a real tragedy; at least he's an im­

The area's ONLY certified FIT-KIT Technicians for 
provement over Beagan, who proper fit and position 
totally trashed the environ­ment...but he hasn't made any
•NECA Frame Alignment 
proposals. He needs to propose
•Customer Wheel Building 
an environmental agenda, rally­
•Certified Mechanics 
ing the country around it." 

decades for the necessary change to come about, he said, and presidential initiative is a necessity. 
Although the stat11 of the en­vironment has worsened in the 20 years since hn began Earth Day, Nelson said, the rate has been slowed from the course it would have taken without pre­sent efforts. 
Earth Day was started, he said. to reach leaders in the private sector, and to initiate demonstrations so large that they force the issue into the mainstream of political dia­logue. 
One sign that the message is getting across, lw said, is the increased number of corporate executives who call him, wish­ing to become involved in Earth Day activities. On the first Earth Day in 1970, he said. none wished to partieipate. 
To encourage environmental awareness in less developed countries, the U.S. should pro­vide technical and scientific in­formation, Nelson said. 
Countries like Brazil, he said, cut down rain forests because they are trying to support themselves on a day by day ba­sis. The U.S. must provide aid to encourage more long-term planning, because a sustained 
The Observer page 3 

1 ne uoservertt:lJII Mowle 

Gaylord Nelson (right), founder of Earth Day, speaks with senior James Dailey, head of the Environmental Action Club. Nelson spoke yesterday at ND about the history of Earth Day and tactics that should be em­ployed to help save the environment in a speech titled, "The Greening of American Politics." 
Earth Day founder says study of environment a must for all 



REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
IF YOU RENTED A REFRIGERATOR AT THE FALL MALL IT MUST BE RETURNED. 
WHEN: FRI MAY 4TH 2PM--5PM WHERE: STEPAN BASKETBALL COURTS 
The refrigerators MUST be CLEAN, DRY and DEFROSTED in order to receive your deposit. 
in the long run. lw said. 
Nelson said hn would likn to s1~e half of the "peace dividend" resulting from reduced defense spending go toward sustaining ecological rnsourcns. If tho de­cision wnrn his. lw said, tlw dn­fensn budgnt would be cut in half within tlw next tnn years. 
"All we'rn doing is making ourselves worse off (by spend­ing so much on ddense)," lw said. 
Nelson said that although tlw rising world population is o1w reason for the nnvironm1~ntal crisis, pollution is caused by "what people usn and do,h not merely by their nxistenee. 
From 80 to 90 pnrcent of tlw pollution in tlw world could have b1~nn prnvented. he said, and the cost of not implnnwnt­ing environmentally sound poli­cies is going to be "1 00 to 1,000 times grnater" than tiH' cost of making such changes. 
Asked about his feelings about organizations such as Earth First which are consid­ered radical. Nelson said, "I don't condone violnnce... but most of the groups anm't vio­lent. All groups have a role to play. If they want to lie down in front of bulldozers, they know they will pay the consequences. I'm not going to go around saying my way is the only way... l don't blame them." 
Correction 
In the Monday, April :-w. story on transfer students at Notre Dame, there were sev­eral factual errors. The headline incorrectly stated that Notre Dame will take 700 transfer students; most from Saint Mary's Co11oge and Holy Cross College. It should have said that Notre Dame receives 700 transfer applications; most applica­tions from Holy Cross College and Saint Mary's College. According to Susan Joyce. transfer coordinator for the Office of Admissions, the number of transfer stu­dents who are admitted to Notre Dame is approxi­mately 150. In addition, University requirements in­
clude six credit hours in both philosophy and theology, not six semesters. 
We're Fighting For Vour Life.



NO EXCEPTIONS 
t. .
~Amerlcr!n Heart ~Association 

----~~--~---------------~-----~­

EMIL HOFMAN RETIRES 
page 4 Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
DELIVER Us FROM EMIL 
PSALM 23 (revisitfldl 
The Emil is my teacher; I shall not pass. lie maketh me to sit in an assigned scat; And causeth me to answer seven questions; lie confuseth my mind. lle guides me For his name's sake. 
Yea, though I walk through the Shadow of the Valley of 
Death I fear no Emil, for thou art with me. Your review sessions and your staff, They comfort me. You set a periodic table before me in the sight of my classmates. You inundate my head with facts my notebook runneth over. Surely worries and anxiety shall follow mn All the Thursdays of my life. And I shall dwell in the Hall of Cushing for months to come. 
This psalm/prayer can be said in the place of the usual "and deliver us from EMIL" prayer at the start of class. You freshmen may even want to clip out this artidP and keep it in your text to remind you that things arnn't so bad. Maybe it will keep you from "making those mistakes that all freshmen make." I could write more about Emil T. But maybe anything but a prayer would bn useless. 
Good luck ... you'll need it! 
This prayer by Jim Greene originally appeared in The Observer on September 10. 1982. 


Observer file photos were taken by Joe Raymond, E.G. Bailey and Zoltan Ury. 
Tuesday, May 1, 1990 The Observer 
•


NATO ISSUe nags Germanys 
BONN, West G11rmany (API­West German leaders at­tempted Monday to overcome Kn~mlin opposition to a united (;errnany belonging to NATO as pn~parations got under way for historic unification talks. 
Experts from the two Ger­manys and the four vietorious World War II powers held dosml-door procedural talks in Hast Berlin to prnpare for the formal "two-plus-four" negoti­ations at the l'on~ign ministers' level in Bonn. 
No dntails on thn East Berlin talks werP reh~as1~d. 
Wnst Gnrman Pomign Minis­Wr llans-Dietrich Genscher as­sun~d Vietor Karpov, the Soviet deputy forPign minister, during a private mneting Monday that Bonn would not overlook Moseow's "justified seeurity in­
terests." 
Genscher told the Soviet ofli­cial that German unification would represent the "solution of a serious European problem (the division of Europe), and not the creation of a new one." 
In an effort to make some headway before Saturday's "two-plus-l'our" talks, the West German government announecd that Genscher would hold sepa­rate meetings friday with So­viet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and U.S. Secre­tary of State James Baker. 
Baker will also meet Friday with West German Chancellor llelmut Kohl, said West Gnrman government spokesman Dieter Vogel. 
Kohl indicated that West Germany was prnpared to offer eeonomic and other incentives to the Soviet Union to overcome reservations about German uni­fication within NATO. 
Kohl, in a statement read by Vogel, said he is "certain that we will come to a reasonable agreement, also with the Soviet Union" on the matter of a united Germany's strategic: al­legiances. 
Kohl added that West Ger­many is "ready for comprehen­sive cooperation with the Soviet Union in the areas of economy, technological exchanges, ath­letic meetings ... and coopera­tion in seeurity questions." 
Kohl's statement did not elaborate. West Germany is the Soviet Union's largest trading partner in the West. 
Berlins expect May Day celebration, riots 
WHST BHHI.IN IAI'I -Thou­sands of 1~xtra polirn wern de­ploynd Monday in both Berlins alwad of fparnd May Day riots, as tlw dty prl'parnd for its first joint eel1~hration of the holiday siru~e thP Bnrlin Wall came down. 
llnion organiznrs said tlwy PXJHH't up to !iO.OOO pnople from both sides of the city to attPnd tlw fpstivities today. 
Polien forrns in Hast Bnrlin and West BNiin will mu·.h have :l,OOO extra oflicprs on tlw job, and WPst Bnrlin policP said they will hn prPpared with watnr cannons and tear gas. 
Tlw main May Day event will lw a cnlnhmtion in front of the fornwr HPichstag, or parlia­nu~nt building, in West Bnrlin. 
For the last three years, May I, tho international workers holiday, has been marked by dashes between the eity police and youth gangs, foreigners and extremists. 
Last ynar some 2,000 riotnrs rampaged through the streets of W!~st Berlin, smashing win­dows and ears and looting gro­cery stores and other busi­nesses. More than 300 police ol'l'icnrs, demonstrators and passers-by were injured. 
Last wenk. hundreds of right­wing "skinheads" and lnftist nxtrernists rampaged in Hast Berlin and police fear that troublemakers from both sides of the city will join forces to­day. 
"We'II do our best to see that violent pnople don't cross the border," West Berlin police spokesman Gernot Piestert told The Associated Press. "We 'II search anyone who looks suspi­cious." 
Skinheads and youths in blaek leather will be special targets, Piestert said. Skinhead is a popular term for right­wing extremist youths with dose-shaven heads. 
PiBstnrt said the polien wlll, however, not close any of the more than 35 border check­points between East and West Berlin, whieh Germans can cross after presenting a valid passport. 
"We're too happy about the borders being open to close them now," Piestert said. 
The Berlin Wall and the rest of East Germany's western border were opened in Novern­bnr 1989. 
For the first time police in both Berlins will cooperate to ensure security for the holiday. 
Catnpus Ministry and You 
page-s 


~ 
I 
I 
AP Photo

Endara visjts the U.S. 
Panamanian President Guillermo Endara talks to reporters on his arrival at Andrews Air Force Base as Secretary of State James Baker stands near. The Panamanian leader was scheduled to meet with President Bush yesterday. 



@0PUS

----------------------MINISTRY 
CULTURAL DETERRENTS TO INTIMACY 
This past week was a beautiful one. Sunshine, warmth, a definite end to the midwest's longest seeming season of winter. Nature let itself be known in very graphic ways. 
Most graphic of all, perhaps, were the ducks and geese on the two lakes, letting it be very clear to whoever might be there to observe what nature's primary purpose for this season is: recreation, renewal, reinforcement of the species. 
We humans have been affected by the season too, certainly. Garb is less confining. Romance blossoms in us around the lakes and around the rest of campus, too. Feelings become more vulnerable than at other times, and in ways more directly related to the weather than is usual. 
Spring is a season for intimacy: for drawing close and sharing in ways that effect change-in ourselves and in our others. Yet certain elements of our culture seem to work against our nature and its natural call to intimacy. 
Wftve established a hierarchy of relationships that detract from healthy intimate development. When we reflect on our relationships, it's often to establish just what they are. Are we "boyfriend-girlfriend"? Just friends? Going together? Dating? Lovers? Needing to quickly establish our relationships in that context as early as possible and to update it as often as we can does work against our nature and does detract from intimacy. In that context, intimacy is in danger of becoming no more than an audition for status. 
James D. and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead define intimacy as: "the capacity to commit ourself to particular people in relationships that last over time and to meet the accompanying demands for change in ways that do not compromise personal integrity." That may or may not be what's going on around the lakes these days. 
We are always challenged by life to go out beyond ourselves toward others. The purpose of that going out is somewhat complex, however. At times it appears to be In order to procreate. At other times it seems to be In order to learn from someone some important thing about ourselves or about life in 
general. Sometimes we go out in order to give or receive something needed by one party or the other. These reasons and others beyond them all converge In one person -us, and make us feel rather split. Is our need for Intimacy primarily physical? If so, is it primarily sexual? Or is our need primarily spiritual? Is the call beyond ourselves a call to God in some way? A call to service and altruism? How can we know? 

The Whiteheads' definition works either way. If the Intimacy quest Is primarily sexual and will fit most notions of being fully moral, It will Involve elements of commitment and fidelity and change. If It Is primarily 1plrltual, It will also Involve those same elements. 
But these are most likely not the questions folks ask as they walk around the lake, holding hands or wanting to. The pressure of defining the relationships precludes those questions. She'll think I'm too serious. He'll be scared off by wondering if I'm too smart for him. 
The need to be In a relationship has replaced the need to live out essential issues of Intimacy. It's as if the culturally demanded category allows or disallows exploration of these Issues In a particular relationship. If we're "just friends", we can't discuss these things until we at least move to boyfriend/girlfriend status. Then, It might be ok. But 'till then the only valid question is "Who are we to each other," not "Who are we?" 
As Christians, we're called to be appropriately Intimate in all of our relationships. The intimacy comes first. Categories might (might not) follow. I share who I am with you because of a belief that we are both images of the same God, and if we're going to know who that God is and be In relationship with that God we need to know the image as well. 
That's certainly not to suggest that we use people and share with pebple only as a way to get beyond them to what we really want God. Rather, It is to suggest that by getting to know people and getting them to know us In loving ways we are being our God to each other or having an experience of who our God is. 
We love because it is our nature to love. We reveal God to each other 
because we love. When categories and hierarchies get in the way of our loving 
or cause it to become artificial or limited, those categories and hierarchies need 
to be discarded. 
At our healthiest and holiest we reach out to each other not In order to move 
up the culturally determined ladder of relationship and be fulfilled by 
possessin& what that level offen , but, just lib the ducb and the geese, In 
order to live honestly live out who we are In nature and the world of nature 
about us. 
Brought to you \Weldy by the Olflce of ~llnlstry n The Observer 







5 different stY,les available 
Send them now because we'll be closed during finals!!! 

We also have a larg_e selection of graduation cards b Rec cled Pa er Products 
...... 

Hofman 
continued from page 1 
very successful. 
"It was the interaction with the students that I enjoyed," he said. Hofman was well-known for his friendly association with students. He often had break­fast with his male students and lunched with the females. "I have always boasted that I have had more dates than any other man on campus," said Hofman. 
As he leaves Notre Dame, Hofman will not have only in­fluenced students socially but also academically. As dean of Freshman Year of Studies, he has reorganized the Freshman Curriculum, the Freshman Learning Resource Center, and Freshmhn Orientation. 
Also as dean of Freshman Year of Studies, he has been especially interested in minority issues. He described diversifica­tion as an important compo­nent of education and wants students to be prepared to live in a diversified world. "In help­ing minority students, we are helping all students," Hofman said. 
r 
r Hofman is in the midst of clearing his office in order to make room for Associate Provost Eileen Kolman, the in­coming dean of Freshman Year of Studies. He wants the change of leadership to be a smooth transition in which Kolman can bring "new thoughts and new motivation for the benefit of all students." As Hofman ends his time at Notre Dame, he says he envies those who are just beginning theirs. "Of all the people in the world today, the people I envy most are the incoming fresh­men. I know what is ahead for them, and I would love to expe­rience it myself." 
------~ ~ 
------------..
---~-----~---~--------------------~­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
level of the nation has realized ety including agriculture, busi­"We have more environmen­that we are endangering the ness, labor, religion, the gen­talists in the legislature than

Earth 
ecosystem. "Without it (the re­eral public, and the govern­ever before." He said that in continued from page 1 alization) nothing would be ment. The social compact 1963 he could think of only five The date, April 22, was se­done," said Nelson. would be a joining together of Senators who were environ­
lected because that week was Another change cited by Nel­these levels spontaneously in mentally conscious. the best week for colleges to be son is the fact that the issue response to an urgent problem. involved without having vaca­used to be deemed unnecessary According to Nelson, U.S. tions or holidays interfere, ac­by businesses, but today every "We've done it before," said presidents such as Washington, cording to Nelson. business is interested and par­Nelson. He cited the bombing Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt 
Nelson stated that he felt that ticipates. of Pearl Harbor by Japan as -a became great because they de­Earth Day would survive be­Nelson cited the main cause prior example. feated a great challenge. "This cause, "at the time I knew that of our environmental problems challenge is more serious than everyone could see something today as the lack of an envi­Nelson concluded by stating any other and the damage will happening." The transforming ronmental ethic in this country. that he felt the future is be far greater. President Bush of Lake Erie into a "cesspool" "We have consumed without promising for an improvement has a chance to go down in his­could be paralleled to a similar regard to the environment. We in the environment because of a tory if he succeeds." situation in any region of the have always assumed that na­coming "conservation genera­country. ture could handle anything," tion." Today's children are Monday's lecture in Washing­
As for the biggest change be­Nelson said. "much better informed than ton Hall was sponsored by the tween Earth Day 1970 and To solve this, Nelson sug­those of 20 years ago. We Center for Social Concerns, the Earth Day 1990, Nelson stated gested a "social compact" must continue to move in that Environmental Action Club, and that the leadership of every among different levels of soci-direction," Nelson said. the Student Union Board. 

Transfer 
continued from page 1 
ented us, it [the attitude] was basically 'Find out about it on your own."' 
This inspired Tiller to volun­teer for the 1989 transfer ori­entation, which was coordi­nated by senior Kevin Keane. Tiller credits Keane for improv­ing the social aspect of the ori­entation. "He turned it around 180 degrees." 
Tiller hopes to produce "the same kind of program" that Keane produced. However, Tiller also wants to "give them [transfer students] more social interaction." 
On the first day of this year's transfer orientation, August 
22. the transfer orientation committee plans to present a Mass and a luncheon. Also, each college will make a pre­sentation about its curriculum. 
According to Tiller, the intent is-socially and academically." 
"to get them oriented academi­cally." 
On August 23, the transfer students will register for classes. 
Tiller has also planned many social events for that weekend, including a softball game and a volleyball game. When return­ing students start coming back on August 26, the committee plans to take transfer students off-campus, possibly taking a trip to Michigan Sand Dunes. "We try to get them away from campus when it starts getting hectic," he said. 
Tiller, who has never lived on­campus, said that he regrets the feeling of isolation that liv­ing off-campus creates. "I re­ally did not experience the dorm situation, which is very fraternal," he said. 
Tiller said he would advise transfers to "get involved as much as they can handle, both 
lilt~ 
.c 
~,_-,""""­
The Observer/Bill Mowle 

Mac-Attack! 
Students facing last minute paper deadlines crowd the Macintosh computer lab in LaFortune. The lack of late night computing facili­ties on campus has brought complaints from students who are forced to wait hours for available terminals. 
----~----~----------­
Tuesday, May 1, 1990 The Observer page 7 




Volcano threatens survival of Hawaiian town 
KALAPANA, llawaii (AP) -A 2,000-foot-wide river of lava from Kilauea Volcano de­stroyed another house Monday as it thrna!Pned to bury and burn the center of this coastal community. 
Kilauna, the world's most ac­tive volcano, was pumping all of its daily output of 650,000 cubic: yards of molten rock into tlw Kalapana an~a on Hawaii Island, and authorities had lit­tin hope the community would survive. 
"This is a massive glacier of lava, at least a quartnr of a milo wide, at least 10 to 40 feet high lwhind the front of the flow," said llawaii County Civil Ddense Administrator llarry Kim. 
Kilauea has dnstroyod 120 homos sincc~ its latnst nruption bPgan .Jan. 3, 11JH3, 44 of them in April. 
Lava was a quarter-mile from tlw Kalapana Store and Drive-In and two churches in the town eentPr, whkh Kim said AP Photo could be overrun by Tuesday at 
A parishioner prays following Sunday Mass at Star of the Sea Church in Kalapana, Hawaii. Government offi­
cials estimate that the church may be destroyed by lava from the Kilavea Volcano within a week.
tlw cmrlic~st. 
Walter Yamaguchi, who built I win. I leave it up to heaven." Hobert Lippi, chief financial cated across the street from tlw store in 11)74, said he was Parishioners made plans to offer for the Roman Catholic Star of the Sea, said the content to leave the fate of his move the historic Star of the Diocese in llonolulu, said church's structure was rotten husirwss in the hands of God Sea Church, which sits on an church officials would wait un-from termites and not worth and tlw volcano goddess Pele. oceanfront lot in the direct til lava was certain to overrun saving. 
'"In fact, Madamn Pelc owns path of the lava. A trucking the church before moving it. thn whole place. So I belinve in company volunteered to move "It looks pretty inevitable," They said some artifacts and her and I bnlievn in God," the the church for free. Volunteers he said. a church bell made in the 1800s H2-year-old man said. "I leave began removing the church's Leaders of Kalapana Mauna would be the only things sal­it up to tlw good Lord whether stained glass windows Friday. Kea Congregational Church, lo-vaged. 

China lifts yearlong 
SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, APRIL 27 11:25p.m.NotreDamePoliceciteda Michigan resident lor Exceeding the 
1:30 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re· Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had ported that his car had been struck in a b 
martial law in Tibet
11. 

hit and run accident in the D·2 lot. The een trave mg 43 mph in a 30 mph zone accident occurred sometime between on Eddy. 
BEIJING (AP) -Chinese au­Jokhang Temple, Buddhist Ti­
4124 and 4127 SUNDAY, APRIL 29 
thorities lifted martial law to­bet's holiest shrine and a flash­
4:43 p.m. Notre Dame Police were 12:35 a.m. A resident of Greencastle 
called to the scene of a two car accident was cited by Notre Dame Police lor Dis· 
day in the Tibetan capital of point for anti-government 
on Juniper Road. No injuries were re· regarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Ivy 
Lhasa, nearly 14 months after demonstrations, at midnight
ported. and Bulla Roads. 
the restrictions were imposnd Monday.
2:56 a.m. Notre Dame Fire and Police SATURDAY, APRIL 2 8 Departments were dispatched to St. Ed· 
to quell bloody nationalist riot­Troops have manned check­
ward's Hall. Unknown person(s) had 
ing. China said social order had points on main roads leading
5:20 a.m. A Safe Walk worker re· pulled an alarm on the first floor. 
been restored. into the temple and maintained
ported seeing a suspicious person in the 1:21 p.m. Notre Dame Fire Depart­D·6 parking lot at approximately 1 a.m. 
The official Xinhua News sentries around the Barkhor
ment was called to Lewis Hall to extin·The man left the area without incident. 
Agency said martial law, im­Square that encompassns the
guish a fire in a trash can.
1:15 p.m. A Flanner Hall res1dent re· 1:40 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­
posed March H, 1989 after temple.
ported the theft of cash from his wallet in ported that someone had entered his un· 
three days of anti-Chinese riot­It is likely that the army and
his unlocked room. The theft occurred locked room and removed a number ofbetween 12:30 and 1:10 p.m. 
ing, oflicially ended on orders the paramilitary People's
blank checks. 
5:45 p.m. An off-campus student re· 
of Premier Li Pong. Armed Police will continue to be
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame Police re·ported that his car had been broken into sponded to a hit and run in the C·1 lot. 
"In view of the fact that the deployed in large numbers
while parked in the Green Field. Stolen The accident occurred between 1 p.m. 
situation in ... Lhasa has be­around the city.
from the vehicle were a stereo, receiver. 
and 2:30 p.m.
and amplifier. In addition, the dashboard 
come stable and social order Anti-Chinese, pro-indepen­
3:30 p.m. A Morrissey Hall residentsustained damage. Total damages are 
has returned to normal, the dence sentiments remain high
reported that his vehicle had been van·estimated at $450. 
dalized on 4/28. 
task of enforcing martial law in in Lhasa. Xinhua warned Mon­
9:33 p.m. Notre Dame Security was 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame Police were 
the city has been successfully day that "separatists on both
called to Knott Hall on a report of three called to the scene of a two car accident women selling magazines without per· 
fulfilled," said a Cabinet order sides of the border ... are still
in the B-2 parking lot. No injuries weremission from the University. 
signed by Li. plotting to continue their sepa­
reported.

11:13 p.m. A New York resident was 10 p.m. A staff member at the Uni· 
Xinhua said People's Libera­ratist and destructive activities.
cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding. 
varsity reported that his vehicle had 
tion Army troops were ordered We absolutely cannot relax our
The defendant had been travelling 43 been struck in a hit and run accidentmph in a posted 30 mph zone on Dou· 
to leave their posts around the vigilance."
while his vehicle was parked in the JACC qlas Road. 


Pac&Ship 
National Library Week 
specializing in UPS service 


Raffle Results 
We will be on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses for your 
The University Libraries of Notre Dame
convenience: 
congratulate the following persons, each of 

whom has won $50 worth of free database
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Stepan Center LeMans Parking Lot 

searching at any University Libraries' 
May 8-11 May 8-11 

database location: 
1pm-5:30pm 1pm-5:30pm May 15-18 May 15-18 1pm-5:30pm 1pm-5:30pm 
1. 
Johnathan Peterson, graduate 

2. 
Anne Tabor..Morris, graduate 

3. 
Teri Einloth, undergraduate 


10% OFF FOR STUDENTS!! 
4. 
Julie Poletta, undergraduate 

5. 
Stefan Nawrocki, graduate 


or visit open daily
Pac & Ship 9-S 
6. Barth Pollak, faculty 
Sat 10am -7

277-7748 115 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 

Colombia 
gains new 
candidate 
MEDELLIN, Colombia (AP) -A former guerrilla, left with one leg and slurred speech aftnr an assassina­tion attempt six years ago, gained thn support of a left­ist coalition Monday as re­placement for a slain presi­dential candidate. 
Former field commander Antonio Navarro replaces Carlos Pizarro, his onetimn guerrilla boss, on the May 27 ballot. Pizarro was assassi­nated last Thursday. 
The government is printing 16 million new ballots to re­place those carrying Pizarro's name and photo­graph. Photos help illiterates identify candidates. 
The Dnmocratic Alliance, a coalition of many of Colom­bia's leftists that daims to have the support of the na­tion's labor unions, will sup­port Navarro. He is the new leader of thn M-19 move­ment. Last month M-11) dis­banded as a guerrilla orga­nization and becamn a politi­cal party. 
Colombia's Communist Party refused to support Pizarro and does not sup­port Navarro. The party is divided as a result of Com­munist loss of prestige and power througout the world. 
The secret police m•~an­while said they could not verify the authenticity of a lettnr purportc1d to be from Pablo Escobar, chinf of the Medellin drug cartel, claim­ing that Escobar did not murder Pizarro, as sug­gested by national policn. 
The letter said Escobar sheltnred M-11) guerrillas in the past. 
The movement took its namn from the date of the April 19, 11)70 presidential elections that rebels said were rigged. 
Former president Misael Pastrana of the opposition Consnrvative Party urged President Virgilio Barco on Monday to resign before his four-year tnrm ends Aug. 7. His remarks came in an in­terview publishnd by the Bo­gota daily La Prensa and in ~ live broadcast interview wit the radio chain RCN. 
Correction 
The Monday, April 30, cut­line under the photo of the De La Soul concert was in­correct. According to Ted Sheehan, promotions man­ager for Theodorn's~ the group was seheduled to be­gin playing at 12:15 a.m. and were contracted to pnrform for 45 minutes. He said the band started to pnrform early at 11:45 p.m. and eon­tinued playing for the con­tracted 45 minutes. 
AmNTpt WIWW!fii!JIACHFAS 
Pwloct_...,..f'fiPT.,._.iloU.I.A.
r....._.,.._,..._... __ 
....long----·~
-odoltaooh-..laol---llwougll
--....-...-­
• .,..-·_ _,Tioondoy, 7 pm· 
---"-··-lorT-Honnctn. 


--~ -~-~-----~-----------~ 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
-=-Ihe Obsei:Ver___ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
EdHor..JrK:hlat Alison Cocks Managing EdHor Bualn-Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
Newa EdHor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VI-point Edltor-............... Michelle Dall Ad Dulgn Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sporte Editor ..................... Greg Gulley Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent EdHor ................. Colleen Cronin Syatama Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo EdHor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Dlractor ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's EdHor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlractor .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either lnsdtudon. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 
,. 

LETTERS 

Death penalty reflects prejudices in application 
Dear Editor: on the subject of deterrence. So, to answer Longeway's cumstances shall anyone be its members and setting an ex­
I am writing in response to There is no conclusive evidence question, "Should capital pun­subjected to torture or cruel, ample of respect for human Christopher Longeway's that the death penalty deters ishment be abolished?", the an­inhuman or degrading punish­life. It should not teach its Observer article on April 25. He people from killing. In fact, swer is yes, and not for eco­ment. No matter how it is car­members that one can solve claims that "capital punishment murder rates have increased nomic reasons or deterrence ried out, the death penalty is problems by killing people. is effective and useful." He ob­everywhere in the United States reasons, but for moral ones. always cruel, inhuman and de­The death penalty is not a viously speaks out of igno­in the past decade and even Capital punishment is a matter grading punishment and it is a punishment. It is a crime. rance. The use of capital pun­more so in states where the of human rights. The United violation of human rights. It is ishment is not limited to the death penalty exists. Murders Nations in the Universal wrong to kill, and a society that most flagrant and malicious are most often committed as Declaration of Human Rights executes its own people legit­Kelly Reuba actions as Longeway claims. crimes of passion when ex­states that every individual has imizes killing. The state should Lewis Hall The death sentence is imposed treme emotion overcomes rea­a right to life and U!lder no cir-be in the business of protecting April 25, 1990 in a discriminatory way on ra­son or under the influence of cial minorities and those who drugs or alcohol. These people are poor and cannot afford de­do not see beyond their actions cent legal representation. and, therefore, cannot be influ­African-Americans and enced by the threat of death. Hispanics are more likely than Even when murder is premedi­white defendants to be sen­tated, the individual rarely be­
tenced to death for the same lieves that he will be caught or Co-ed housing threatens tradition 
crimes, and murders involving executed, and I do not believe white victims are more likely to that a potential murderer goes Dear Editor: As desirable as this may or may When Howard Hall was con­result in death sentences than through a "cost/benefit analy­Should coeducational housing not be, it is wrong according to verted to a women's dorm in murders involving black vic­sis" as Longeway describes. be an option for students at Catholic thought. Therefore, 1987, sweat shirts were made tims. I do agree that life imprison­Notre Dame? This question, the University, in its touted with "Howard Hall 1931-1987" 
Longeway also says that "The ment can be ineffective. The which has become a hotly con­Pastoral Mission, is obligated printed on them. This symbol­system does not choose to sen­problem lies within our judicial tested issue in recent years, has to prevent such opportunity for ized the "death" of the dorm tence the mentally ill to death." and prison systems. If a person been argued from all possible temptation. Regardless of what and the disgruntlement of the Since 1984, at least eleven peo­is sentenced to life imprison­perspectives. While supporters people's beliefs are on the sub­men who had lived there. Of ple suffering from mental ill­ment, then he should remain of co-ed dorms believe that this ject, there is one clear, definite course, there could be a phase­ness have been executed. This there for life and under no cir­new living environment would and correct teaching. I do not in as seniors graduate, but in past summer, on June 26, the cumstances (unless wrongly enhance the social life of the believe co-ed housing is accept­any case, the character of the Supreme Court ruled that the convicted) should he be re­University, critics of coeduca­able under that teaching. dorms would drastically Constitution permits states to leased on a weekend furlough, tional housing feel that co-ed In addition to disrupting the change. Traditions would end, execute murderers who are as Alan Matheney was, or be dorms would disturb the moral morals of the University, there and the fraternity and sorority­mentally retarded as well as released on parole. and Catholic traditions that is also a question of cost. like atmospheres within the those who were as young as dominate the atmosphere of Someone has to pay for the dorms would disappear. sixteen when they committed Since Longeway is a business Notre Dame. I believe that the conversion of the dorm. That, While coeducational housing their crimes. To say that "the major, I am surprised that he negative aspects of co-ed of course, will be the student could produce a better quality death penalty is punishment did not bring up the point that dorms outweigh the supposed through hidden increases in tu­social life, it could also destroy that is distributed unequally the death penalty is a cost ef­benefits of a new housing sys­ition and decreases in financial the foundations and traditions and, therefore, unfairly" is fective way to deal with crimi­tem. aid. Do students really want an that separate Notre Dame from true. Between 1976 and 1978 in nals. Perhaps it is because he The first drawback of coedu­increase on an already taxing all other universities across the Florida, Georgia and Texas, 89 knows that the death penalty cational housing is associated tuition? nation. Hopefully, people will percent of the 92 blacks ar­costs more than life imprison­with the strong moral beliefs Finally, there is a major consider the negative draw­rested for killing whites were ment. A 1982 New York study that are present at the problem in converting a single­backs of co-ed housing before under the death sentence, while concluded that the average University. Notre Dame is one sex dorm to a co-ed dorm. any decisions are made to only 5.25 percent of the 38 murder trial and first stage of the foremost Catholic uni­When a dorm becomes co-resi­change the housing system of whites arrested for killing appeal cost taxpayers $1.8 mil­versities in the nation. It is dential, half of the residents the University. blacks were under the death lion--more than twice as much inevitable that, in a truly co-ed have to leave to make room for Jim Cretella sentence. as it costs to keep a person in situation, "late night liaisons", the other sex. This, I guarantee, Fisher Hall 
Longeway is terribly mistaken prison for life. to put it mildly, would increase. will be met with opposition. April28, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ANTI-U.5. ICAN R/015! AFTeR /MJV31N& HOW 
AU I'Vt f)()Nt­THATM/6HTfOR 7H/5 RAT­Be /JtMORAJ.,­HOtbOFA !ZING, 5/R..... 
COUNTRY' I 

'I don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is trying to please everybody.' 
Bill Cosby 

I ... I
Accent
Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
page 9 

'Happy Trails:' Bloom County says goodbye 
PAIGE SMORON Trails." things in life, but this is the first Edition, featuring fat hairy men and sexist self in a dramatic Breathed's drawing is more time I've been preoccupied with in Speedos, is definitely a clip­moment. When everyone starts
assisant accent editor 
"I never thought Berke polished than in his earlier penguins going on welfare. and-save. looking for job in other comic Breathed had talent. so he was books, but at the same time, he Breathed seems to have strips, he auditions for one in probably forced to quit." seems to lose much of his spon­There are several bizarre plot picked up an environmental which women look like "Dolly This quote from Donald taneity. There is also a perva­twists, typical of Bloom County. conscience, and tackles the is­Parton in zero gravity," but 
Trump opens tlw latest and last sive feeling that the end is com­The reason Donald Trump is so sue of "acid snow." He also ac­ends up in "Cathy." //loom County book, "llappy ing, even in the funniest strips. harsh on the critic's page is tually introduces a sensitive Still, it's hard to laugh when Trails," and sets an ominous Breathed's formerly off-beat probably because of a non-flat­character, Honald-Ann, whose Opus occasionally laments: 
tone for this snlnction of comic and original humor seems tering plot-line in which his mom is still trying to pass gym "Comic strips aren't supposed forced in this book. Usually, the brain is transplanted into the class. Her favorite possession is to end! Neither arc good mar­
strips. 
strips are more sad than funny. body of Bill the Cal. (He buys a doll who doesn't have a head riages! Or frinndships. Or loyal­At times the characters con­six "Roach Hotels" and offers to (she got caught in the crossfire ties. Or happiness ... happiness Whntlwr Brnathed was forcnd 
to quit or lw voluntn1~rt~d. thn front the situation. In one strip, let Ivana redecorate them.) during the Christmas drug-turf isn't supposed to just end. Gilda Opus sees a shooting star, then Opus, as usual, undergoes a battles). Hadner isn't supposnd to end ... " 
strip did din rncnntly, along 
faces the audinnce and says, "I traumatic experience in the "Happy Trails" isn't Bloomwith Opus, Bill thn Cat, Milo, wish-I wish I knew if I'll have form of an illegal back-alley Some old characters return to County's best, but it's worth anBinklny. and tlw rest of thn east 
lw 1·rmttPd. 1/lomn County, meaningful employment after nose liposuction, and ends up Bloom County for a reuinion. investment for sentimentality's whieh inspired many T-shirts, August 6." For a cartoon char­looking like "a mosquito with Steve Dallas, who had had his sake. and probably Bill the Cat eults, aeter, that's pretty depressing. gas." And for feminists every­brains scrambled by aliens, re­And wherever Opus is, I hope 
where, the Annual Swimsuit turns to his original ofl'ensive he's happy . 
brnatlws its last in "llappy I've worried about a lot of 
.£¥/P..J mow fi(}W >W 7li!NK. I~ II Fl/1/.fll?€" liS II 
stW... ,.,yBI//.1£T1/NP A/t... 
GI?CIIT'

B</TI'tff (}t)NN/1 TRY ONCe 
SCOTT. IriS?

MORe. ~tlt IGIJT MYo5€/.F 
711111''5 II OH /Jell!?.

II tJOG. 
IENGfllll. 

\ I
I 

/t11/I?GARer? 
I~ GOING 1lJ 
lHIIIJC OVI? 50N 
IN FOR II N£W 
Sfi81/Rfl. 
\I 

The true meaning behind 'Lion Taming' 
have to explain a lot sooner­you see, if I were to ring up the less than your own. And neverPlease fill in above informa­why this column is called "Lion circus and tell them 'I've got a lose the gift of being able totion and then start story here ... lan Mitchell 
I got a letter from God the Lion Taming Taming." The title, predictably fellow here who wants to be a laugh -at both the world and ... enough, is taken from "Monty lion tamer' their first question yourself. Taking things too se­
other day. Or rather, I got a 
to me is not going to be, 'Does riously is the number one caus1~Python's Flying Circus" (the TVletter signed: "G.O.D. (Greatly show). In the "vocational guid­he have his own hat?... "' And of death in America. (Or if it's Outspoken Dames)." Allow me favorite writer, perhaps of all the skit goes on from there -I not, it should be.) 
to quote briefly from this little time, and they want to bear my ance counselor" sketch, an ac­
children. countant walks in and explains can't really do it justice in print "Lion Taming" is (sorry, was)love notn: "We are writing to 
that he's tired of his job and (certainly not without violating dedicated to those who dream,express our moral outragn at Well, I don't write to annoy some kind of copyright law, no matter how, unrealistic the the blatant stupidity or your ar­people, and I don't want to wants to become a lion tamer. 
tidns which continue to plague make enemies of people I don't When he is told that it's quite a anyway), but that's the reason dream may be, and to those 
behind the column title. who laugh, no matt11r how seri­know -at least I assume I jump from accountant to lionour only student newspaper." 
ous things seem. So good luck

And thn Iotter really picks up don't know them: you have to tamer, and asked if he has any A year or so ago I was talking to a math major and he on finals. llaVf~ a good summer.
from from tlwm, using a few admire poopln with the courage qualifications, he says some­(For seniors, have a good life.) 
words wn won't print in tho to stand by their opinions and thing like: "Well, I've got my mentioned how much he hated newSJHlPI'r. (I lint: One of them hidfl bnhind anonymity. own hat -a black top hat with math. It turns out he was a And maybe you might want to 
with the words 'lion tamer' math major because his parents buy yourself a hat -something
rhynws with "luek," and the Anyway, G.O.D. doesn't have ...
expected him to be one. I hate along the lines of. oh, I don'tmuch to worry about. This is written in great big neon lettersotlwr is a means of generating know ... a black top hat with the
hyd roelectrie power.) Basieally, the fiftnnnth "Lion Taming" of so you can tame the beasties at this idea. Don't bn an ac­tlw point of tlwir letter was that the year. and it's the last. night when they're less feisty." countant if you want to be a words "lion tamer" on it in 
great big neon letters so youtlwy love me and want me to But bdore I finish, I want to The guidance counselor, after a lion tamer; don't live someone 

else's dreams, never settle for can tame the beasties at night. ..
pause, responds: "Yes, well... 
write twice as often. I am their explain something I thought I'd 
-
The Observer accepts cla~;ifieds every business day from 10 a.~. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1990 

NOTICES  I  10 Speed bike.272-6306 MOVING TO CINCINNATI?  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097  COMPUTER FOR SALE AMSTRAD (IBM compatible) lncludes:Color monitor,modem  An-Tosta\1990 Somebody should have stopped it!  PETE'S BREWING COMPANY  
UPS ON CAMPUS  and EPSON printer;  LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED  
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 239-6174 -LAFORTUNE  I need a roommate for the summer to share a nice apt. in the Clifton area.  AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­ ALL FOR $485. Call Panos at 237-0027  GOING HOME !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim at x1143 ASAP.  SPECIALTY BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K.  
WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! $100 FREE INSURANCE Discounts Available  (Female, please) HEIDI X2658  9364. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FOR  LET US HELP YOU! SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY $100 FREE INSURANCE  BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES  
**MOVING OFF-CAMPUS** Need Furniture (beds, tables,  STU REPORTER WANTED NEXT FALL Need knowledgable ND fan to file daily sports update-$$.  SUBLEASING. CALL NOW!!! 284­4070.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE  EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383.  
desks, couch, etc ... ), then call 272­6117. All furniture must be sold!  Journalism exp a plus. 312-248­5148  SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER.  WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP!  SENIORS SENIORS  
So CALL NOW!  Looking for a triple loft, 'U' shaped,  UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 LEAVE MESSAGE.  Discounts available  SENIORS  
WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  to fit a room of a two-room triple. Call X4067 or X4081 ARE YOU GOING TO AMERICAN UNIV. OR JUST MOVING TO D.C. IN AUGUST? LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE? ME TOO! CALL 271-9858 Patties is now hiring for the summer. Flexible Hours Day and Night. Our work schedule is perfect for students. Apply in person. 3602 Grape Rd.  SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE/FULLY FURNISHED CALL KEVIN x1636 SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or SARAH AT x4068. FOR RENT Furnished apt-like rooms, air, kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus 272-0615  One Litre Soft 1>rinl(_ anareceive $1.00 off ca{[ 277-3324  Louii-Give the frog back •••••••*FOR SALE••••••••• Couch with a pull out BED Best Offer takes it!!!!! Call Beth Natasha or Sara atX2722 Jack Devereaux is mine!!!!!!!!  Are you planning on volunteering next year? Please sign up at the Senior Class Office in Lafortune or at the C.S.C. to participate in the ceremony during graduation weekend. DEADLINE IS MAY 1. PROFESSIONAL COUPLE DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE CHILO'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL  
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245  Outpost Center Share driving ONLY to Bedford, VA, or en route 5/10 or 11call Patty,1675.  FREE, almost! Furnished houses (2) on N.D. Ave., $115 mo. per person for entire summer, OR flat $190 pp for summer session; plus electric. DEPOSIT. REFERENCES.  :free Ve!ivery coupon ezyires:  0-317-298-8548 OR ATTORNEY 0-317-882-9799 (ref#89-129). Matthew Ashford is hot!!!!  
LOST/FOUND FOUND: Blue wrist keychain­O'Sullivan?-with 2 car keys-Found Sat. at 5 PM at Bookstore Semis­on grassy hill near Stepan. Tom­1887 LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. REWARD. SEAN 2073 LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk. LOST: Women's high school class ring ... gold ring, dark blue stone with gold crest on top ... class of 1986 ... initials LAG on the inside ... PLEASE CALL #2533 LOST--RAY BAN SUNGLASSES­-Black wire-rims, left on a PA speaker at Earthday during the mind-shattering mega-jam of Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. LOST: A Canon Sprint camera at Senior Formal. Please call Kay at 277-8813. Thanks! PLEASE!! I LOST MY  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. $5,000+/month! Over 8,000 openings. Free transportation! Room & Board! No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed. BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615)779-7111 Ext.T-530. ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602­838-8885. EXT R-6262. ATIENTION : EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262. ATIENTION: EARN MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885. Ext. TV-6262. Need GUYS to coach FARLEY football, hoops, & softball ­call Aimee x4222 '----FO__R_R_E_NT......,...___.l ------------------------------------­ 259-7801 days, 255-5852 5-6-90 evenings. &.--------------.1SUBLET FOR SUMMER 2-bdr apt. partially furnished For Sale: Apple lie, monitor, dbl. Turtle Creek-price negotiable disk, wp programs and manuals, call Anne x4267. hundreds o' games, $500. Greg x1462 4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL 1-WA Y Chicago to Houston YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE May 24 $40 John 277-4152 TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE RENT. 277-0959. -NICE-FURNITURE FOR SALE An entire apartment! Must sell this FOR RENT week. Best offer or only offer! Call 272-6117 TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE PRICE NEGOTIABLE Notre Dame Men's Volleyball PLEASE CALL EITHER: Team is selling NO volleyball TRACIE X4026 OR T-shirts. Three styles to LAUREN X4035 choose from. Prices $10 & $11. GOING TO NORTHWESTERN For info call Tom x2333 FOR SUMMER SCHOOL? JOB IN EVANSTON/CHICAGO? 112 2BDR VOLVO-1978 4-dr. sedan. APT TO SUBLET, 3 BLKS TO NU, Auto. trans. New: tires, battery, 1 TO EL. SARA 1674. tune-up, exhaust sys., $1800 obo. Dave 258-1165. Female wanted to share a recently redecorated 2 bdrm SPEAKERS -Project One, 3-way house for the summer. $200 spkrs. $50 obo. Call Dave: 258­mo. Call Now: 232-7970 1165. I FORSALE ::~-.-::·f"oR-s~~"E::·::::::::·---I '--I_nc_m_s__,  Mo, Good Luck on the CPA! You'll do great! Party hard this weekend. You deserve to. Love, ThePWgang To the HOT, INCREDIBLE babe that is about 5'3, dark hair and lives in 829 PE -I saw you walking across campus and I fell into a pool of emotion! -your nervous Campus View admirer. NEW JERSEY CLUB TRUCK LOADING TIMES 5/10/90:6:00-7:00 PM STEPAN COURTS 5111/90:4:15-7:00 PM STEPAN COURTS ANY PROBLEMS, CALL LEE OR  FREE BEER AND FOOTBALL TIX! Now that we have your attention, the Transfer Orientation Committee will have a meeting for all those interested in helping next fall with orientation! If you want to help you must be there, Tonight (Tuesday) 8:30pm Lafortune's Montgomery Theater. Attendance is mandatory!!! Congrats MOLLY MAHONEY on Bookstore. Its too bad you had to play all week with a broken hand, but we love you and think you jammed. Love SUNSH and MARY. CHRIS B-A-L-C-E-Z-A-K: Congratulations on surviving both MCATs and initiation on the same day! You definitely deserved M.V.P.! ••Attention•· The Pittsburgh Club is looking for a freshman from the Pgh. area to take an exec. position in the club. Job offers a bevy of excitement. If interested, call Steve x1177 or Chris x1238 CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS  
COMPUTER DISKS -YES WITH ALL MY PAPERS -IN LAFORTUNE LAB OR SOMEWHERE IN THE HUDDLE. THEY WERE IN A RED CASE HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH  NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE  A couch with a pull out bed Best Offer takes couch!!!!!! Call Beth, Sara or Natasha at X2722  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! please call Kathy at 277-8813 ******** ***•"'"'******* *** Grad Tix = Big $$ Call Steve@ 287-2105  DAVE (3883,4235) ASK ME IF I AM A CAR. ARE YOU A CAR?  REGARDLESS OF CONDITION. 277-9954. ROOMMATE WANTED: To share a house with 3 other girls, close to campus, $130 total a month, for summer and/or school year. Call  
THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY  3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS  Yipes! My ultra-rich grandma  NO!  233-3263  
REALLY NEED THESE!!! IF YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 OR LEAVE IT AT THE LAFORTUNE LAB. THANK YOU!!!! LOST-BLACK S100EF KODAK CAMERA ON SATURDAY AT  $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549 SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302  Furniture:Game Table,Sm Ref., Sofa,etc. Great for house or dorm. 232-3972 For sale-Macintosh 128k Complete package: printer, second disk drive, mouse, keyboard, software, only $785. 233-9428, after 6 p.m.  needs a ticket for graduation or she'll beat me into submission with her cane. I will give you CASH today for your ticket. CALL X4238 and name your price. I NEEO GRAD TIX $$will pay$$ 283-3536  ARE YOU A CAR? UH, UH,NO! HAHAHA!!!!! SENIORS: STOP IN AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK  LOVE is MADNESS, LUNACY, ORDINARY TO: Lisa, Lisa, Julie, ND Martial Arts Club, the women of Knott, Lise, Eric, Dave, Scott,BERT!, Boski, and everyone else who assisted me in the gimp phase, esp. Anna "I  
HOGSTOCK. CALL KATH ANNE 283-4044. \lost my SEIKO wristwatch with black wristband. Maybe on North Quad. If found please call Diana x4003 LOST: dropped a single key (42g)somewhere near St. Mary's  New 2 Bdrm., 2 Bath Condo. Available for 1990-1991. Walk to campus. Call Michelle at x4981. 2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272­6306  DINING ROOM SET; EXCELLENT COND. $45 : SMALL DESK $20 OR BEST OFFER. KEVIN 256-2927 FURNISHINGS FOR THE STYLISH STUDENT: Red shag carpet (approx. 9x12) and a wood bookcase (3 shelves). Best Offer. Call Rich at 1265.  NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. I need graduation tickets for huge  OUR HOUSING I ROOMMATE INFORMATION EXCHANGE. Going to D.C. for the summer or moving there permanently? D.C. Alumni Club can help you find housing. Call Mike Jones at (202) 546-7582 (evenings)  have EMS training" Wiese, my roommate Tricia, and Delli­THANK YOU THIS MUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Love, the Knott gimp-K.T. LAW STUDENT LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE IN D.C. THIS FALL. CALL KATHLEEN AT 1918.  
....  Lake or Holy Cross last week. PLEASE call x4897 if you picked it Up. LOST: Gold Chain Sat. between the An Tostal picnic and the Blue and Gold Game. Extreme Sentimental Value REWARD!! call Kelly 284-5464 WANTED \ NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938 BOXES TO SHIP HOME FOR YOU. UPS ON CAMPUS DAILY THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LAFORTUNE BASEMENT  SUMMER RENTAL. House or Rooms.Near campus.272-6306 NEAR NO: Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave*efficiency-$225;*1 bdrm-$265 dep.,references 616-483-9572 Party Off Campus Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand V-ball court, washer/ dryer, safe. Bruce : 234-3831 or 288-5653 Two Bedr Condo 2Baths, Lg rooms,pool,great for Grads 232-3972. Castle Point Studio for summer rent;fully furnished 277-8379  Furniture: A whole apartment full of CHEAP goods. Must go this week. Call Tom anytime 234-7083 LOVELY HOME-Near ND , 3+br, $69,900, 287 9341/239 5080 1978VW EXCELLENT CONDITION 61 ,000 MILES, NC 272-1134. Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1-708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. FLIGHT to SALT LAKE CITY, one­way, leaving South Bend May 11, female only. CHEAP!!! Call Karin at 2565.  family. Please call Jeanne at 2600. HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 NEED 2 GRAD TIX ! ! ENTER LOTIERY 4 ME ! ! CALL JIM X1415 ------------------------------------­lPERSONALSI START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999  hiag 00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245  Hey K.P.­1cannot believe the year is over.. I will miss you so much over the summer..Know I will always love you .. -P.R. *****POTTERY SALE..*** Riley Hall -outside on the lawn May 2nd & 3rd 1 0-4pm •••••poTTERY SALE***** DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO SEE DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE BAMBOO GANG ON WED., MAY 2 IN THE FIELD SOUTH OF MADELEVA, 5-8 PM PMS-THIS WEEK LOOK FOR DETAILS-EVERYBODY DOES IT!  
239-6714  LARGE 5 BR HOUSE 2 BATHS  ANNA BUNGER  SENIORS: STOP IN AT CAREER  Going to VIRGINIA after finals?  
WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP!  11/2 KITCHENS WET BAR IN BASEMENT. NEAR ST. JOE  AMSTRAO LAPTOP WI EXTERNAL MONITER. 2  GOOO LUCK ON YOUR FINALS LOVE  AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING I ROOMMATE  Need a rider? Call Christine at 284-4345.  
HOSP. $480 MO. 9M LEASE 271­ DRIVES.MUST SELL SOON.  CLANCY  INFORMATION EXCHANGE.  
Discounts available  0373  GARYX3952.  *** ************* ••••••••  see CLASS I page 14  




page 11

~ru=e=sd=ay=,M=a=y1=·=19=9o~------------------~~~~oreboard 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL TRANSACTIONS 
SEATILE SEAHAWKS-Signed Todd Oberdorf AMERICAN LEAGUE 
BASEBALL and Michael Lindsey, tackles; Felton Parquet,

AMERICAN LEAGUE American League
Oakland 021 100 101-6 11 0 
fullback; Alvin Lee, wide rece1ver: Xavier Jordan New York 000 000 000-0 6 1
East Division BAL TIMOAE ORIOLES-Sent Ben McDonald. 
and Willie Walker, linebackers: Jonathan Walls, Welch and Hassey: Parker, Robinson (7), Guetterman (7), Plunk (9) and Geren. W-Welch, 3-1. L­
w L Pet pitcher, to Rochester of the International League for 
safety: and Bobby Garcia, guard. Parker, 0-1 HAs-Oakland, McGwire (7), Canseco (5), A. Henderson 2 (3). 
Milwaukee 12 6 .667 a rehabilitation assignment. 
HOCKEY
Boston 11 8 .579 1 112 BOSTON RED SOX-Sent Daryl Irvine. pitcher, 
National Hockey League Toronto 410 113 OOQ-10 19 0
Toronto 12 9 .571 11/2 and John Marzano, catcher, to Pawtucket of the 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Called up Mark Cleveland 100 200 010--4 7 0
Cleveland 9 9 .500 3 International League. 
Ferner and Bill Houlder. delensemen; Jim Hrivnak, Stottlemyre. Acker (6), Wills (8), Henke (9) and Borders: Bearse, Shaw (1 ), Wickander (7) and
Baltimore 9 11 450 4 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Traded Bill Long, 
Now York 7 10 .412 4 1/2 pitcher, to the Chicago Cubs for Frank Campos, goalie; Tyler Larter. Steve Maltais and Kent 
Alomar. W-Stottlemyre, 3-2. L-Bearse, 0-2. HAs-Toronto, Felix (3), Hill (2), Fernandez (1), Bell (6). 
Paynter, wings, and Steve Sattel and Alfie West Divtsion 15-day disabled list. Purchased the contract of Turcohe, centers, from Baltimore of the American Milwaukee 110 101 002-6 9 
Detroit 8 12 .400 5 pitcher. Placed Dave Gallagher, outfielder, on the 
w Pet Rodney McCray, outlielder, from Birmingham of the Hockey LE\ilgue. Detroit 000 000 001-1 8 3
Oakland 14 5 .737 Southern League. Released Greg Walker. first COLLEGE Chicago 9 6 .600 3 baseman. BOSTON UNIVERSITY-Named Aus Bradburd
Knudson, Grim (9) and Surhoff; J.Aobinson, Gleaton (9) and Nokes. W-Knudson, 2-0. L­J.Aobinson, 1-2. HAs-Milwaukee, Yount (2), Brock (1). Detroit, Fielder (7). 
Texas 11 8 .579 3 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Claimed Sergio Valdez, associate head men's basketball coach 
Callforma 8 11 .421 6 pitcher, off waivers, from the Atlanta Braves. Sent DARTMOUTH-Announced the resignation of Seattle 000 ooo ooo-o 6 o
Seattle 8 13 .400 61/2 Kevin Bearse, pitcher, to Colorado Springs of the Jeff Kosak, head hockey coach. M1nnesota 7 12 .368 7 Pacific Coast League. OKLAHOMA STATE-Announced the
Boston 130 200 14x-11 12 0 
Holman, Knackert (4), Comstock (7) and Valle, Bradley (8): Boddicker, Murphy (8), Reardon (9) and Pena. W-Boddicker. 2-3. L-Holman, 3-2. HA-Boston, Pena (2). 
Kansas City 6 12 .333 71/2 MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Placed Tom Filer, resignation of Myron Roderick. athletic director, 
effective June 30, so can become president of thepitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. Transferred 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Mark Birkbeck, pitcher, from the 15-day to the 21-National Wrestling Hall of Fame. East Division day disabled list. OREGON STATE-Named Dutch Baughman 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
w Pet New York 001 001 020--4 7 MINNESOTA TWINS-Released Rich Yell, athletic director Pittsburgh t4 6 700 Atlanta 002 221 OOx-7 8 1 
pitcher. 9 3112 Cone, Whitehurst (6), Musselman (6), Pena (8) and Sasser: Smoltz, Henry (8), Soever (9) and Whitt.
Montreal 10 .526 NEW YORK YANKEES-Placed Pascual Perez, 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
9 .526 3 1/2 Olson (9). W-Smaltz, 1-2. L-Cone, 0-2. Sv-Boever (1). HAs-New York, Johnson (4). Atlanta, 
Philadelphia 10 pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. retroactive to New York 9 10 .474 4 1/2 McDowell(2), Treadway (1). 
April 26. Sent Chuck Cary, pitcher, to Tampa for a St. Louis 9 11 .450 5 rehabilitation assignment. Optioned Deion DIVISION FINALS 11 51/2 000 5
Chicago 8 .421 Philadelphia 100 010-2 2 Sanders, outfielder. to Columbus of the Wednesday, Apnl 18 Cincinnati 300 000 12x-6 7 1
West Div1sion International League. St. Louis 4, Chicago 3 w Pet K.Howell, Carman (7), Akerfelds (7), McElroy (8), Parrett (8) and Daulton; Aijo, Charlton (8), Dibble 
OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Sent Mike Bordick, Edmonton 7, Los Angeles 0 Cincinnati 13 3 .813 (8) and J.Aeed. W-Aijo, 1-1. L-K.Howell, 2-2. Sv-Dibble (3). HA-Cincinnati, J.Aeed (1 ). 
infielder, and Dave Otto, pitcher, to Tacoma of the Thursday, April 19 Los Angeles 11 9 .550 4 
Pacific Coast League. N.Y. Rangers 7, Washingtor~3 10 51/2 Houston 000 030--4 11 2
Houston 9 .474 100 TEXAS RANGERS-Returned Ramon Manon, Bosotn 1 , Montreal 0 San Diego 9 10 .474 5 1/2 Montreal 001 1 00 000-2 7 o 
pitcher, to the New York Yankees. Friday, April 20 San Francisco 7 12 368 71/2 Des.haies, Andersen (6), Schatzeder (8). D.Smith (9) and Biggio; D.Martinez. Frey (9), Sampan (9) 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Sent Ozzie Virgil, Chicago 5, St. Louis 3 Atlanta 13 .235 91/2 and Fitzgerald. W-Andersen, 2-0. L-D.Martinez, 2-1. Sv-D.Smith (7). HAs-Houston, G. Davis 2 
catcher, and Paul Kilgus. pitcher. to Syracuse of Edmonton 6. Los Angeles 1 z-denotes first game was a win (6). the International League. Saturday, April 21 AMERICAN LEAGUE National League 
Boston 5, Montreal 4, OTBASEBALL'S TOP TEN 
Sunday's Games ATLANTA BRAVES-Waived Sergio Valdez, Washington 6, N.Y. Rangers 3 
Based on 34 at Bats.Oakland 1, Boston 0 pitcher. Claimed Joe Hesketh, pitcher, off waivers Sunday. April 22
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Calllorn1a 4, New York 3 from the Montreal Expos. Sent Rick Luecken, St. Louis 5, Chicago 4,
G AB A H Pet.
Cleveland 6. Minnesota 4 pitcher, to Richmond of the International League. Edmonton 5. Los Angeles 4
Heath Det 14 36 3 16 .444
Milwaukee 6, Detroit 1 CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Greg Smith, Monday, April 23
Pena Bsn 19 72 8 29 .403
Baltimore 5. Seattle 4 infielder, and Dean Wilkins, pitcher, to Iowa of the Washington 7, N.Y. Rangers 1
Griffey Sea 20 80 10 31 .388
Chicago 10, Toronto 3 American Association. 
Boston 6, Montreal 3 Kansas City 5, Texas 2 CINCINNATI REDS-Placed Danny Jackson, Tuesday, April 24 
Stillwell KC 17 57 10 22 .386 
Webster Cle 14 48 9 18 .375
Monday's Games pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list Chicago 3, St. Louis 2 
Felix Tor 20 66 10 23 .348
Oakland 6. New York 0 HOUSTON ASTAOS-Activated Eric Anthony. 
Edmonton 6, Los Angeles 5, OT, Baltimore 2. California 1, 12 lnmngs outfielder, from the 15-day disabled list Placed Edmonton wins series 4-0 
WWilson KC 16 55 10 19 .345 
Larkin Min 17 64 10 22 .344
Boston 11, Seattle 0 Mark Davidson. outfielder, on lhe 15-day disabled Wednesday, April 25
BJackson KC 14 53 10 18 .340
Toronto 10, Cleveland 4 list. Optioned Dave Rohde. infielder, to Tucson of 
Washington 4. N.Y. Rangers 3, OT Milwaukee 6. DetrOit 1 the Pacific Coast League. 
AHdsn Oak 17 65 16 22 .338 
Montreal 4, Boston 1 Texas at Chicago. (n) MONTREAL EXPOS-Placed John Costello, 
Home Runs Thursday, April 26Fielder. Detroit, 7; Gruber. Toronto. 7: McGwire, Oakland, 7; Bell, Toronto, 6; Canseco. Oakland, 5;

Only games scheduled pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive to Chicago 3, St. Louis 2
Gnffey, Seattle, 5; 5 are tied with 4.
Tuesday's Games April 25. Named Richard Morency vice president of 
Friday, April 27 Oakland (Moore 1-1) at New York (Hawkins 0-2) communications.Gruber, Toronto. 20: Fielder. Detroit, 19; McGwire. Oakland, 18; Felix, Toronto, 17; Griffey, Seattle. 
Runs Batted In 
Washington 2, NY Rangers 1, OT, Washington Callforma (Abbott 0-1) at Baltimore (Tibbs 0-2) NEW YORK METS-Piaced Keith Miller, 
wins series 4-117, Bell, Toronto, 16; S1erra. Texas. 16; Fernandez, Toronto, 15: lncaviglia, Texas, 15.
Seattle (Johnson 2-1) at Boston (Hetzel 0-1) outfielder, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive to 
Boston 3, Montreal 1. Boston wins Toronto (St1eb 3-1) at Cleveland (Candiotti 3-0) April 25. Purchased the contract of Darren Reed,
Pitching (3 Decisions) series 4-1Bosio, Milwaukee, 3-0, 1.000; Candiotti. Cleveland, 3-0, 1.000; KBrown. Texas, 4-0, 1.000; Ryan, 
Minnesota (Tapam 2-2) at Detroit (Morns 2-2) outfielder, from Tidewater of the International Saturday, April 28Texas, 4-0, 1.000: Stewart, Oakland, 5-0. 1.000; Clemens, Boston, 4-1, .800; CFinley, California, 3-1, 
Texas (Ryan 4-0) at Ch1cago (Perez 1-2) League. Claimed Daryl Boston, outfielder. off St. Louis 4, Chicago 2 .750; St1eb, Toronto, 3-1, .750; Welch. Oakland, 3-1, .750.
Milwaukee (Higuera 2-0) at Kansas City (Saberhagen waivers from the Chicago White Sox. Sent Julio 
Monday, Apnl 30 Wednesday's Games Machado, pitcher, and Lou Thornton, outfielder. to 
Chicago 8, St. Louis 2. Chicago wins series 4-3 Milwaukee at Kansas City. 2:35pm Tidewater. and Chuck Carr. outfielder, to Jackson
NATIONAL LEAGUE G AB A H Pet.
Oakland at New York, 7:30p.m of the Texas League. St. Louis 0 
1-2

Kennedy SF 14 39 5 16 .410
Calilorma at Baltimore, 7:35 p m PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Waived Todd Chicago 2 3 3_ 8Duncan Cin 15 49 13 20 .408
Seattle at Boston. 6:05pm. Frohw1rth, pitcher. Optioned Brad Moore. pitcher. to First Perlod-1, Chicago, Aoenick 8 (D Wilson.
Santiago SO 18 63 9 25 .397
Toronto at Cleveland. 7·35 p.m. Scranton Wilkes-Barre of the International League. Presley), 2:47. 2, Chicago. Aoenick 9 (Goulet. 
Sabo Cm 15 64 16 25 .391
M1nnesota at DetrOit. 7·35 p m PITISBUAGH PIRATES-Named Jim Mallon D.Wilson), 13:03. Penalties-Featherstone, StL.
Larkin Gin 16 65 12 25 .385
Texas at Ch1cago. 8 05 p m manager of Weiland of the New York-Penn maJor (f1ghtmg), 7:28; Gilbert. Chi, maJor (ftghtlng). 
Backman P1t 11 43 7 16 .372 
League. 7.28, Thomas. Ch1 (roughing), 9:4!. 
Butler SF 20 82 16 30 .366
NATIONAL LEAGUE ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Placed Terry Second Perlod-3, Chicago. Larmer 4 (Graham. 
McGee StL 20 83 15 30 .361
Sunday's Games Pendleton, third baseman. on the 15-day disabled KBrown), 3:03 (sh). 4, Chicago, Savard 4 (Larmer. Owen Mon 19 64 6 23 .359
Atlanta 3, Philadelphia 1 list Gilbert), 7:28. 5, Chicago, Manson 2 (Yawney,
Daniels LA 18 52 7 18 .346
Montreal6. Ctncmnatt 3 FOOTBALL Larmer). 10:22 (pp). 6, Sf. Louis. Maclean 4
Home Runs 

Houston 2. New York 1. 10 Innings National Football League (J.Brown). 12:06 (pp). Penalties-Presley, Chi
Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 7: GDavis, Houston. 6: Guerrero, St Louis, 5; Saba, Cincinnati. 5; g are tied with 
San Franc1sco 9, St Louis 7 (slashmg), 1:22: P Cavallini, Stl (tripping) 4 43; St
4.

Pittsburgh 10, San Diego 1 NFL-Suspended Frank Warren. New Orleans Louis bench, served by G.Cavalltni (too many men
Runs Batted In 
Ch1cago 4. Los Angeles 0 Saints defensive end, for at least one year alter on ICe), 8:43; Chicago bench, served by D.Sutter 
Bonilla. Pittsburgh. 21: Guerrero. St. Louis, 20; JCarter, San Diego, 17; WCiark, San Francisco, 17;
Monday's Games testing positive lor drugs a third time. (too many men on ice), 11:16; Momesso, StL,
Dawson. Chicago, 15; MaWilliams. San Francisco, 15; GDavis, Houston, 14; ONeill, Cincinnati. 14.
Cmcmnau 6, Philadelphia 2 ATLANTA FALCONS-Signed Joe Meerton, tight mater-game misconduct (high-sticking), 15:35.
Pitching (3 Decisions)Houston 4. Montreal 2 end, and William Evers, cornerback. Third Perlod-7, Chicago, Gilbert 5 (Konroyd.
Armstrong, Cincinnati. 4-0, 1.000; Cook, Philadelphia, 3-0, 1.000; Heaton, Pittsburgh. 4-0. 1.000;
Atlanta 7, New York 4 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Signed Vernon Larmer), :35. 8, Chicago, Creighton 2 (Larmer, San Franc1sco at Los Angeles, (n) 
Tudor: St. Louis, 4-0, 1.000; Viola, New York, 4-0, 1.000; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 4-1, .800; LaCoss. San Maxwell, Bob Davis, Lawrence Oliver and Eldonta K.Brown), 3:45 (sh). 9, St. Louis, Oates 2 (Hull),Franc1sco, 3-1, .750; Maddux, Chicago, 3-1, .750; Morgan, Los Angeles, 3-1, .750.
Only games scheduled 
Osborne, linebackers; Darren Flutie, Bill Hess, 17:19. 10, Chicago, D.Sutter 1, 19:49. Penalties­Tuesday's Games 
Amod Field and John Jackson. wide receivers; Lowry, StL (roughing), 1 :17; A. Sutter, StL Philadelphia (Ruffin 1-2) at Cincinnati (Mahler 1-0), 12:35 p.m. 
Mike Johnson, quarterback; DeWaine Jones, (slashing), 2:04; Aoenick, Chi (roughing), 2:04; New York (Darling 1-2) at Atlanta (LIItiqutsl 0-3). 5:40p.m. SPORTS CALENDAR fullback; Dennis Smith, tight end; Win Lyle and Yawney, Chi (trippmg), 2:46; P.Cavallini StL 
Houston (Portugal 1-3) at Montreal (Gardner 0-2), 7:35 p.m. 
Kevin Nicholl, placekickers; Preston Waters, (slashing), 9:14; P.Cavallini, StL (chargi~g). 14:02; St. Louis (B. Smith 2-2) at San Diego (Whitson 2-0), 10:05 p.m. 
cornerback; Mike Applewhite and Jeff Mathis, Oates, StL (high-slicking), 14:02; Manson Chi Pittsburgh (Terrell 0-0) at Los Angeles (Belcher 1-2), 10:35 p.m. 
defensive linemen; John Brandom, guard: Mike (roughing), 14:02. ' Chicago (Bielecki 0-2) at San Francisco (Hammaker 2-1), 10:35 ~· "'· Tuesday, May 1 
Thursday, May 3 Pfeifer, offensive tackle, and Lance Prouty, Shots on goal-St. Louis 5-8-15---28. ChicagoSoftball vs.DePaul (2) 4 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games Softball vs. Valparaiso (2) 4 p.m. offensive lineman. 12-10-7-29. 
Chicago at San Francisco, 3:35p.m. 
Men's Tennis at Kalamazoo 3 p.m. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49EAS-Signed Reggie Power-play Opportunities-St. Louis I of 4; Atlanta at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Bynum, wide receiver, and Kevin Lewis, Ch1cago 1 of 6.
Wednesday, May 2 Friday, May4Cincinnati at New York, 7:35 p.m. cornerback. Released Matthew Fitts, offensive Goalies-51. Louis, Riendeau, 3-4 (15 shots-11
Baseball vs. Valparaiso (2) 2 p.m. Softball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 4 p.m.
Houston at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Lacrosse vs.Michigan St. lineman; Tom Flesher, defensive end, and Garry saves), Joseph (7:28 second, 14-10). Chicago 
St. Louis at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 
James. running back. Balfour, 4-1 (28-26). ' Pittsburgh at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
~ 
I BOUNTIFUL BASKETS 
ATTENTION: 
Baskets of Gifts for All Occasions 
Grad Students J 
J 
Professors 
MOTHERS DAY-GRADUATION 
Employees
Precious moments, Lasercra{l Stationery, Floral paper weights, scented Items, gourmet foods 
•furnished and unfurnished suites
J 

over 100 Items to choose from 
•nexlble 
leases 


•washer 
& dryer each apt. 


Shipped UPS. Delivered Locally 
•locked intercom entrances 
272-9776 

•spacious floor plans w/country kitchens 
I 
( I 
( ( 
FOOD BASKETS for FINALS 2 doz. homemade cookies, 2 muffins, 4 pkgs. crax & cheese, 3 pkgs cheese 
Work up to 6 months m Bntatn, Ireland,

or comchlps, 4 fruit, 2 gum, 2 candy, J 
France. Germany, Jamarca, New-Zealand.
game pencil 
and Costa Area Counctl's Work Abroad Pro·
J 
gram. the only one ol11s k1nd 1n the U.S cuts
ONLY 18.50 
through all the red tapet

J 
~ 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs. 
d1scoun1 rm lares language courses. and

J DELNERED 
more
~ 
Council on lnt'J Educattonal E>fchange
CALL 272-9776 
( 
(US Sponsor ol the lnt'l Sluden/1.0 Card)
or 
I
1-800-373-9716 

We will be on campus, Monday, 
290') 'Su,!.M ~ Nor! 
~lh 8f-nrt lnc1MI~ .tbllft
May 7th, from 11am -3pm 
Lafortune Sorin Room 

219. 211. 3731 

J 


page 12 The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
Golfers finish spring season 
Irish women place fourth in Boilermaker Invitational 
By FRANK BARLETTA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team wrapped up its 1990 spring season with a fourth-place finish in the Boilermaker Invitational this weekend. The Irish recorded a team score of 1014 in falling to Big 10 leader Wisconsin in the tournament held at Purdue University on Saturday and Sunday. 
Kathy Phares and Allison Wojnas led the Irish, each turning in a score of 252 over the 54-hole competition. The rest of Notre Dame's scores came from Cappy Mack (258 strokes). Pandora Fecko (259), Roberta Bryer (260), and Kristin Kolesar (283). 
Head Coach Tom Hanlon expressed disappointment with his squad's performance. "Even though we are improv­ing as a team, I feel we're not improving fast enough," said Hanlon. "I know we're still young and we can't be great 


NO men slip to 17th in Kepler Invitational 
By STEVEN WALSH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team closed out its season this past weekend at the Robert Kepler Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. Despite a promising opening-round showing, the Irish gradually slipped back in the standings as the tournament continued, finishing the three-day tournament tied for 17th in a field of 23. 
After firing a first-round score of 311, the Irish found themselves in ninth place and looking to improve on last year's record-setting perfor­mance. Instead, the team was unable to maintain this pace and slipped to 13th place after a second-round total of 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
in the Top 5 in Division III," says Assistant Coach Brian Kalbas. "They are a well­coached team and they always play hard. They have six guys that are even in talent. They don't have any superstars, but they love to beat Notre Dame." 
Under Bayliss' three year stint as head coach, Kalamazoo edged the Irish 5-4 during the 1988 season at Kalamazoo. Yet last year's Irish squad wal­lopped Kalamazoo 8-1 at Notre Dame. Considering the recent rise of the Notre Dame tennis program, the Irish squad should have a rather easy time. 
"We really don't foresee a tough match," said Kalbas. "Kalamazoo is a little weaker this year. If we play aggressive, we shouldn't have too much trouble." 
NOTES: Notre Dame's chances of a regional invitation to the NCAA team champi­onships were dealt a blow this weekend by their Midwestern rival, Northwestern, who blanked Indiana 9-0 on Saturday. Northwestern, led by the nation's No. 1 player, Todd Martin, edged Ohio State 5-4 on Sunday. Northwestern is con­sidered Notre Dame's top rival for the Midwestern bid to the NCAA Championships.The Wildcats have a perfect re­gional record, while Notre Dame faltered to Midwestern foe Wisconsin. Northwestern still must compete in the Big 10 Championships this weekend. 

25-man rosters take effect in young baseball season 
overmgnt, but at the same time, we can't have scores reach the upper 80's and 90's. I'm still encouraged by our play, but I'm disappointed that we're not getting solid performances out of key play­ers." 
Hanlon had hoped to get strong performances from several of his players at the Purdue competition. However, the team was hurt by inexpe­rience and by the limited schedule they played this sea­son. This season was only the second for women's golf as a varsity sport, and the Irish did not play in as many tournaments as Hanlon would have liked. 
This season included the first-ever tournament victo­ries for the women's team, at the Lady Greyhound and Franklin College Invitationals. Phares led the team with an average of 83.33 strokes, fol­lowed by Mack with 84.45, Wojnas with 85.20, and Bryer with 86.07. 
(AP)-The 25-man roster, to be restored next season, returned a year early Monday as major league teams cut extra players allowed to stay for three weeks because of the delay in spring training due to the lockout. 
Teams had until midnight EDT to get down from 27 men to either 24 players or 25. The first has been observed by gentleman's agreement in ma­jor league baseball since 1985, the second is still the official limit. 
Twenty-five seemed to be the rule, in part because no team seemed ready to let rivals get the advantage. 
"If the other teams go to 25, then we will, too," said AI Harazin, vice president of the New York Mets, echoing what other team officials said. 
Many teams, including the Mets, used the disabled list to help pare the roster. The Mets put center fielder Keith Miller on the DL with a hamstring in­jury. 
Others disabled included 
White  Sox  outfielder  Dave  
Gallagher,  Brewers  pitcher  
Tom  Filer,  Yankees  pitcher  

Pascual Perez, Expos pitcher Rich Costello, and Cardinals third baseman Terry Pendleton. 
The biggest names placed on the DL belonged to the Reds ­left-hander Danny Jackson and center fielder Eric Davis, who has a sprained knee. 
The 27-man roster was set just before the start of the reg­ular season to give teams extra bodies because of the shortened spring training. Some teams used it to get an added look at rookies; others to try out vet­erans. 
In many cases, barring injury, it was the rookies who went Monday. 
The Chicago Cubs lopped off two extras -infielder Greg Smith and pitcher Dean Wilkins, while Pittsburgh op­tioned catcher Tom Prince and pitcher Mike Roesler to Buffalo. That left the Pirates with 11 pitchers, a course many teams seem destined to follow. 
The Cards optioned pitcher 
Ken Hill to Louisville. 
Minnesota released veteran 
pitcher Rich Yett. 

Some teams actually added 
players on Monday. 
Sports Information Allison Wojnas shot a 252 over the 54-hole Boilermaker Invitational last weekend. 

314. Efforts to bounce back in the final round fell short and Notre Dame dropped to a 17th place tie with a round of 325. 
The three day team total of 950 was good enough, how­ever, for Notre Dame's second lowest 54-hole total ever at the Kepler, 11 strokes off last season's record. Miami of Ohio shot a 901 to win the championship, marking the first time in over ten years a school other that Ohio State walked away with the title. 
"I was a little disappointed with our performance after the first round," Irish assis­tant coach Joe Thomas said. "We were ninth, and I felt we could do even better. I thought if we could have picked up a few more shots, we would make it into the top 
10. Unfortunately, our short game went bad, and we had problems putting and chip­ping. We were able to hit well from the tee to green, but once we reached the green, we had trouble putting the ball in the hole." 
The Irish were led once again by senior co-captain Pat Mohan, whose 
performance in his final collegiate tournament was typical of his stellar career at Notre Dame. His score of 234 placed him 45th overall at the Kepler, marked the seventh time this season he led the Irish, and assured him the low team average for the sec­ond year in a row. 


SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field: Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meeting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Any further questions. please call the Track Office at 239-6989. 
Notre Dame boxers: those who ordered videotapes, your tapes will by at Lafortune from 7-9 p.m. on Wed., May 2 under the boxing picture. 
HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
219 233 2179 

MALE GRADUATE HOUS.ING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 9 month lease 
A SPECIAL THANKS To the student assistants working in the University Libraries, the Library faculty and staff extend a word of thanks and appreciation for your help in serving the University this past year. Special thanks, congratulations and best wishes to the following students who will be graduating on 
David Andrew Furkan Javaid Donnette Bailey Mark Malloy Brian Bajuk Christopher Morphew Scott Baker James Neill Timothy Bauman Raho Ortiz Margaret Bruns Carmina Perez Doreen Bussi Patrick Russell Angela Calabresse Maura Schoshinski Gina Cammarano Michael Sefransky Marilyn Campbell Christopher Shank Joseph Casey Michael Shewey Peter Dillon Melissa Simmermeyer Christopher Emert Evan Smyth Ginger Escobedo Kathleen Stanaway Maureen Finnigan Scott Sullivan James Fleming James Talerico Christopher Hair Kelly Terrill Ann Hebenstreit Stephanie Thomas Christine Heslin Ina Turner Adrianne Holmes James Vespalec Carolyn Huber Lori Weidner 
Tuesday, May 1, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Braves shock Mets behind two home runs 

ATLANTA (AI') -Oddibe Ml'l>owPII and Jnf'f' Treadway Pach hit two-run honwrs and Atlanta addPd two othl'r runs whiiP startPr David Corw ar­gtwd a l'all at first hasP as tho BravPs lwat NPw York 7-4 Monday nighl. 
It was tlw sPrond vietory in a row for tlw BravPs, who lwat thl' MPts for tlw first timP sinen .July Ih, snapping a six-game losing strf'ak against NPw York. Atlanta is only 4-1 :~ for thP sPason. Tlw Mnts havn lost thrPP straight. 
TIH• Braws got tlu· gift runs from Conn in tlw fourth. With «IIH' out. l>aiP Murphy singiPd and stolf' SPI'ond lwforP Hrnin Whitt walki'CI. Af'tPr Andrns Thomas fliPd out, Cmw ap­pParPd to IH• out of tlw inning whPn I.PmkP hit a groundPr bP­twPPn first and SPI'ond. 
SPI' o rHI has!' nHtn (; n•gg .JpffriPs fiPidi'Cl tlw ball and thrPW to ConP covpr·ing, but first hasP umpirP CharliP Williams ruii'CI Cmw faill'd to toul'h thP hag. Tlw pitrlwr was l'hargPd with an t•rror on tlw play. WhiiP Corw arguPd tlw l'all with his bal'k to lht• infiPid, Murphy and Whilt seorPd. 
Reds 6, Phillies 2 
CINCINNATI IAI'l -Paul O'NPill's two-run singiP in tlw first inning hPipPd .JosP Hijo gain his first victory sint'P last 
Junt· as Cincinnati IH'at 
l'hiladl'lphia. 
Hijo (1-1 1 allowPd four hits and strul'k out six in Sf'Vf'n in­nings for his first victory in his last sPVPn starts. Hob DibbiP pitrlwd I t-:l innings for his third saw. fanning thrPP. 
Hijo's last virtory was Jun«' 
G:l ovf'r l.os AngPII's. l.owf'r 
bark spasms limited him to just four morn starts last ynar, and lw went 0-2 bPforP going on tho disabled list for thn r<'sl of the season July I 7 with a cracked 
lumbar wrt<'bra. The Ht•ds hav<' won tlwir lirst 16 games.  13 of  
Brewers DI\THOIT  6, Tigers (API  1 Mark  

Knudson earn<' within an out of 
exl<'IHiing Milwaukpn's major league lead in shutouts, and Uohin Yount and Greg Broek homered as the the Brewers beat the Detroit Tigers 6-1 Monday nighl. 
CE~eil FiPider hit his snventh honwr, off Knudson with two out in the ninth inning. Knudson (2-0l allowed Pight hits, struck out three and walked two bPforn giving way to Chuck Crirn for llw final out. 
Tlw BrPwors worn trying to sPt a club record for April with six shutouts. It was tlw 10th victory in tlw last 12 gamPs for MilwaukPP, whieh IPads tlw Anwriean Leagun Easl. 
Milwaukf'P, which hit just fiw htHIII' runs in its first 15 gam<'s. hit six in its last tlm•p with Detroit, from whirh tho BrPwors took a four-ganw Sl'rii'S ;{-1. 
JPfT Hobinson ( 1-2) gave up ninP hits. walkPd four and struck out two in S 1-3 innings. liP thrPw two wild pitrlws and tlw Tig<'rs committPd two Pr­rors, accounting for on<' un­Panwd run. 
Tlw BrPwPrs, who havP sror<'d first in Pal'h of tlwir 1H games, did it again as Yount hit his SPCOIHI homer in thl' first inning. 
In tlw Milwauk<'P s<'cond. GrPg Vaughn walked and scor<'d on ILl. Surhoff"s doubl<'. 
Milwauk<'e mad<' a :{-0 with an urwarnPd run in the fourth. Brock singled off Hobinson 's leg, reached spcond on a throwing pr-ror by third hasP­man Tony Phillips and scon~d when shortstop Alan Tramnwll droppPd a two-out popup by Surho!T. 
Brock hit his first homor leading off tlw sixth. 
(;us l'olidor addPd a run­scoring singiP in tlw ninth. A f'ip)dpr's choicP and Phillips' sf'rond throwing Prror gavP tlw BrPWPrs anotlwr run. 
Athletics 6, Yankees 0 
NI':W YOHK lAP) -Bob Welch pitehed a six-hittPr, Hickoy Henderson hit two hom<' runs and .Jose Cansero and Mark MrGwire also r:onnnet<'d Monday night, )pading tho Oakland AthiPties over the Now York YankPes 6-0. 
Weleh (3-1) gaw up four sin­gles, walked none and struek out four in Oakland's S<'C'ond eonserutivn shutout liP pitelwd his 26th eareor shutout and first since July G4, 19SS. 
It was WPlch's first compiPLP gamn since last May 29, and thP A's first complPtn game of tlw S<'ason. 
Wnlrh rPtired 12 straight battPrs in the middlE' innings and allowPd only two hits until tlw snvPnth. Last yE~ar. tlw Athll'lirs thrPw 20 shutouts, but Mike Moon• was tho only pitrlwr to do it in a rompiPt.P gamP. On Sunday. l>aw St<'wart and l>mmis 1\ck<'rsloy eomhirwd to bPat Boston, 1-0. 
CansPeo. McGwir<' and IIPnd<'rson homPrPd in tlw sanw ganw for t.lw first timI' ovl'r. Tlw A's improwd to 11-0 in gamPs in which tlwy st·or<' first, and tlwy tii'Pdf'd only onl' run this timP. 
MrGwir«' l<'d ofT tlw S<'('OJHI inning with his sEWPnth honw run of tlw s<'ason. a long driv<' to IPft f'iPid ofT Clay Parkl'l' (O­Il. 
Attention Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors 
Earn
·­

while you learn. 
Manpower is looking for students interested in earning great pay. We offer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience. Plus free use of a personal computer. 
If you're a full-time student, Sophomore or above, with at least a B average and are computer familiar, Manpower nfteds you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of th1 IBM Personal System/2 on campus. 
Send resume to: Lynette Lottie Collegiate Rep Manpower Inc. 320 W. La Salle South Bend, Ind. 
46601 

Baseball 
contrnued from page 16 
atomic blast of tlw yPar, but Detroit ti<'d in the bottom of tho Pighth ofT eventual winrwr 
GETA 
REAL JOB! 
The Passionist Lay Missions Program offers a variety of ministry opportunities designed to bring the missioner closer to the realities of the struggle of the poor in inner-city Chicago and Detroit. For a copy of our "job lists" for August 1990-August 1991, please complete and mail attached coupon. 
passionist lay missioners 
Please send me your jobs list for 1990-1991 and more info. about the program. 
Nwne _________________ 
Addre~·-------------­
Cty/State ------------­
np _________________) 
5700 North Harlem Avenue Chicago, IL 60631 
312-631-6336 
Mikl' Coffey (4-1). Tlw Irish won it in the ninth wlwn .Jacobs rParlwd on an error followPd by a Maisano doubiP to put rumwrs at. second and third. Matt Krall (.:~10) thnn came through with the game winner as he singled home .Jacobs. Chris Michalak survivPd two ninth inning walks to rPeord the savP. 
Sunday's nrst gamn followPd thP prceedPnt set the day hPfore of tight ballgames. With tho scorn tied at one in thn sixth. Mike Coss came up with his biggest hit of the year as he lined a throe-run honwr to left. Detroit came baek with one in the sixth and one in tlw sevnnth ofT Michalak, but Tony Livorsi camn in to savn the win for Pat Leahy. Leahy didn't havP on<' of his better performances in go­ing 5 innings. liP gav<' up two Panwd runs and only thn•t• hits, but lw walkPd six. 
Notr<' Danw finislwd ofT thP swPPP with a 4-2 win in tlw nightcap. Down 2-1 in tlw ninth, thP Irish sror<'d thrP(' thanks to Miko Coss' (4-for-41 s <' (' o n d H B I a n d Cr a i g CounsPII's two run dingPr. Alan Walania was on as lw wPnt S 1/3 innings for the victory. Michalak finislwd up for his SPC'Ond SUVP of tJw WPPkPrHJ. 
NOTES: 
Tlw Irish haw now won II of tlwir last 1 G and arP :n-9 owr­ail as tlwy d rivP toward an NCAA tournanwnt bid. 
Tlw Irish bullpPn corps con­timH'S to play a kPy rolf' in tlw winning ways of tlw Irish. Tlw rPiiPVI'rS haVP rPC!ll'dPd 13 of tlw tl'am's :C{ wins and also havP <'ight sav('S (thnw this WPnkPnd). Tony Livorsi (1-G) has a l.G:l 1\HA in 14.7 innings whiiP MikP Cof'fpy is 4-1 with a saw and a 1.73. Tlw main l«'fty out of tlw pPn, Chris Michalak, is :{-I with liv<' saves and a 3.41 EHA 
...1~.00 tuition scholarship olua room 111.1d board are provided by
aponaortng ND Alumni Clubs. 
For more lnfonnallon atop lh at the center for Social Concerns 

,. 

----~-------------­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
----~­
Hawks dispose of Blues 8-2
Outdoor track splits squad, 
struggles in separate meets 
By SHANNON FAY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team struggled against tough competition this week­end. The Irish divided into two squads as half the team traveled to Michigan to participate in the Hillsdale Relays. while the remainder headed to Des Moines. Iowa. for the Drake Relays. 
In order to participate in the Drake Relays. athletes had to meet certain qualifying standards. The Irish met up with qualifiers from the Southwestern Conference, the Big 10, as well as the Big 8. Coach Joe Piane said of the Relays, "It was one of the two top meets in the country this weekend... a great meet." 
Piane cited strong per­formances from senior Tom O'Rourke and fn~shman John 
Wisconsin 
MADISON, Wis. (AP)-Two University of Wisconsin football players will be charged with criminal trespass to prop­erty in a weekend incident at a campus apartment. a prosecu­tor said Monday. 
Don Davey, 22, a senior co­captain from Manitowoc, and David Czech, 19, a freshman tight end from Chippewa Falls. were arrested early Sunday after police were called to a UW apartment complex in which Davey resides. 
David Stoor. 21. a friend of Davey's from Manitowoc, also 

Coyle. O'Rourke competed in 
the 3,000-meter steeplechase 
and Coyle in the 5.000-meter 
run. Both O'Rourke and Coyle 
met qualifying standards for 
the IC4A Outdoor 
Championship meet on May 
19-20, in New Haven, CT. 
Despite such performances. 
however. stiff competition 
prevented either of the ath­
letes from top-placing fin­
ishes. 

Coach Piane feels that the weekend's competition will definitely help the team in their upcoming meet. Next weekend, the Irish will be hosting over twenty teams. including Michigan. Michigan St., Purdue, Iowa, Loyola, and Marquette. During the indoor track season, the· team fin­ished fifth in the competition and Piane is hoping to better this performance. 
trespasses 
was arrested. 

A mountain bike and sun­glasses were among items re­ported missing from an apart­ment, the police report said. The bike was later found dam­aged after it had been driven repeatedly into a fence. accord­ing to the report. 
Dane County District Attorney C. William Foust said police reports indicated there was a burglary but he would not file that charge. 
"There's no burglary there," Foust said. 
HAMMES 
NDTREDAME 

Scotch Mailing Tape (tan) 
$1.99 
CHICAGO (AP) -Jeremy Roenick scored two first-period goals and Steve Larmer and Adam Creighton added short­handed goals Monday night, leading the Chicago Blackhawks to an 8-2 victory over the St. Louis Blues in the decisive seventh game of the Norris Division final. 
The victory vaulted the Blackhawks into the Stanley Cup semifinals against the Edmonton Oilers in a best-of-7 series that will begin Wednesday night in Edmonton. 
The rout was the first in what had been a tightly-played series. Each team had scored a total of 20 goals while splitting the first six games. 
Larmer. who also had four assists, scored his short­handed goal to start a three­goal second period and Creighton added his at 3:45 of the third period, long after the issue was decided. 
The Blackhawks came out de­termined. Roenick scored at 
2:27 of the first period when he took a pass from Doug Wilson, faked around Jeff Brown and shot a backhander. 
Roenick scored his 9th goal of the playoffs at 13:03 when he brought the puck around one-handed with Harold Snepts hanging all over him and slipped it between goalie Vincent Riendeau's pads. 
Chicago's Wayne Presley drew a slashing penalty at 1:22 of the second period when Larmer scored his short-handed goal at 
3:03 on a slapshot from the top of the left circle. Denis Savard made it 4-0 at 7:48. At this point St. Louis Coach Brian Sutter lifted Riendeau, who had ~een excellent throughout the Jeremy Roenick (1.) scored two goals Monday night to lead the Chicago Blackhawks to an 8-2 victory over the St. Louis Blues. Chicago won the Norris Division finals four games to three 

series. in favor of Curt Joseph. St. Louis drew a bench 
penalty for too many men on 
the ice at 8:43 and Dave Manson scored a power-play goal at 10:22. The Blackhawks 
returned the favor with their own penalty for too many men on the ice and Paul MacLean scored on the power play at 12:06. 
Greg Gilbert scored 35 sec­
onds into the third period and Creighton scored his short­handed goal at 3:45 with Trent Yawney sitting out a tripping 
cIas s 
continued from page 10 
Are you an ND student from 
DuPage County or the Chicago 
suburbs? Interested in doing any 
community service in your 
tree time this summer? 
Fellowship of American 
Ccllege Students organizes 
various activities during the 
summer and provides college 
students with service work 
opportunities in their spare 
time. Call Ron X1716 if 
interested. 

"Stick With The One You Know" 

Scotch Clear Box Sealing Tape 
$2.59 
'~ 
. . 

Scotch Strapping Tape 
$2.39 

... 



Tuesday, May 1, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 

CROSSWORD 
Tu~sday 
cinnamon
35 Fissure
1 Boast source

6:30 p.m. Film, "Good Morning Babylon," and "Gently 5 Wrong 38 Spanish Mrs. 
61 Lasso

Down the Strnam," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by 10 Disgusting' 39 Equine father 62 Burns
Nl> eornrnunieation and theatre. 14 Sharpen 40 Leap celebrated this 15 Florentine poet 41 Comical theater John 16 Stereo's 
piece 64 " .. baked in 

6:45 p.m. May devotions at Grotto with Father Albert predecessor 42 Sea eagle " 
I>'Alonzo. 17 Church section 43 Ivan of the 65 Unyielding 19 Smug moralist 
courts 66 Part of a G.l.'s weaponry
44 Locale 67 Veggie choice 20 What Ford gave 
Nixon 45 A gender 68 Hacienda 
7:30 p.m. Faeulty Senate meeting. Room 202 Center 
for Continuing Education. 21 Droop 47 Oft prescribed material22 Against pill 691ntend23 Tear 49 Vouchers 
7:30p.m. Film, "Bieyele Thief," Hoom 206 Architecture 25 Dissolve and be 51 --Aviv 
washed away DOWN
Building. Sponsored by ND School of Arehiteeture, AlAS. 52 Norse god of 
27 Make very angry thunder 
1 Gent 31 Discerning 54 Airline abbr. 
2 Capitale d'ltalia 
9:25 p.m. Film "Damned If You Don't," Annenberg 3 Nonpareil Auditorium. Sponsored by ND communication and the­4 Go on (one's
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE way)
atre. 
5 He was "boared" to death 
6 Damage 27 "Hedda Gabler" 37--ease 50 Settled and 

1 Country havens 
playwright (uncomfortable) steady a Real bargain 2BBete­40 Bit of the 52 Ambush 9 York or Preston (bugbear) backbone 
53 Aspire 10 Collision 29 Overflowing 41--fi 
55 Formerfullness 43 Floral ring 

MENUS 
11 Nebraskan constellation 
30 Cezanne's around the collar 
12 Broken bones 57 Confidence 
summer 44 Spread apart 
usually do this game
32 Singer Lopez 46TV's"­
Notre Dame 13 Bear or Berra 58 A few or more
33 All gone, as Company" ~=+=~ 18 Like many a joke 59 "-Ia Douce"
dessert 48 Formally
Irish Fried Flounder 

..:+.=+=:-+=-! 24 Kind of pie 36 U.S. agency in withdraw from 60 In a bit
Egg Foo Yung 

.=...L:::.J..:::~ 26 Inquire the news membership 63Women's-
Pasta Bar llot llam and Swiss Hoagie 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
S·l

~l\ERt.'S \tiE LHT ­HEL~r.'--~ 
SO~E.~OD'( 
O:IC\-1 IT.' / 
ME. C/\\JG~T IT! \T'S ~ OJT.' ~ 


"On three, Vince. Ready?" 


.. 
page 16 

Auerbach's Celtics make one last run at NBA title 
How about just one more 
championship for old times' 
sake? 
Last year, with Larry Bird on the bench, the Boston Celtics exited quickly and quietly from the National Basketball Association playoffs as they were swept by the eventual champion Detroit Pistons in the first round. 

With Bird back in the lineup this year the Celtics seem de­
termined to return to the form which helped them win three 
championships in the 1980s. They hammered the New York 
Knicks to the parquet floor in Boston Garden this weekend, 
going up two games to none in the best-of-five playoff 
series. 

The way Boston won game two Saturday was particularly 
impressive. In a 157-128 triumph, Coach Jimmy Rodgers's 
club set single-game playoff records for most points scored 
and highest field-goal percentage (67 percent) and sent the 
Knicks back home with their tails between their legs and 
three days to think of a way to get revenge at home in game 
three on Wednesday. 

If and when the Celtics get past the Knicks, the competition 
will get much tougher. They will likely run up against the 
deep and talented Pistons in the second round of the play­
offs, and even if their old war horses can keep up with 
Detroit in the first couple of games of the series, their 
greatest enemy could rear his ugly head as the playoffs 
progress. 

That enemy, of course, is Father Time. Four of the Boston 
starters are older than 32; third-year man Reggie Lewis is 
the only youngster in the lineup. Bird, Kevin McHale, Robert 
Parish and Dennis Johnson all have taken a beating 
throughout the years as they logged 40 minutes per game 



APPhoto Kevin McHale (32) and the aged Boston Celtics have jumped out to a 2-0 lead in their series with the New York Knicks. 
while taking teams with weak benches to the finals year in and year out. 
With all of these factors working against them, it is doubtful that Bird, McHale, Parish and Johnson will bring home the title. But it still would be nice to see one more World Championship banner raised in the Garden. Those who hated those Bird-led Celtic teams could at least take heart in the fact that superbrat Danny Ainge is no longer wearing kelly green. 
Boston is the only team with all of its old stars playing to­gether (with the exception of Ainge, but nobody really liked him anyway). Philadelphia has put together a talented club, but Julius Erving and Bobby Jones have retired and Maurice Cheeks is Il()W a New York Knick. Los Angeles still has Worthy and Magic, but J.<areem thankfully hung up his high­tops last year. 
The nucleus of the old Boston ballclub is still intact, although this may be their last year together. With point guard Brian Shaw returning from Italy, Johnson's job will be in jeopardy next season, and Parish, McHale and Bird can't have too many more years left. 
Even though Red Auerbach's club no longer has Cedric Maxwell, supersub Scott Wedman, or loudmouth M.L. Carr, the fact that this may be the last time the old warriors join forces in battle should be enough to elicit a bit of empathy for the Celtics from even the staunchest Celtic hater. 
As for the staunchest Celtic supporters, they might as well rally behind their team now, because it could be a long time before Auerbach assembles another lineup as talented as the one he puts on the floor now. 
Sports 
Tuesday, May 1, 1990 
Irish spell trouble for Detroit 
Balanced hitting, pitching key baseball team's four wins 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
They call Detroit the Motor City for good reason. This past weekend the Notre Dame base­ball team drove over the Detroit Titans for a four-game sweep. 
There was a playoff atmo­sphere at the Campell Complex as the host Titans were only three games out of first going into the weekend, but the Irish wiped out any Titan hope of re­peating as regular season champs of the MCC East with 3­2, 10-9, 4-3 and 4-2 victories. 
The Irish got off to a quick start in Saturday's first game with two runs in the first. Craig Counsell, who raised his aver­age to .242, started things with a single. Frank Jacobs slapped a single to left and both run­ners moved up an error by the 

leftfielder.  Up stepped  every  
opposing  pitcher's  worst  
nightmare  as  of late,  Adam  

Maisano. The freshman DH drilled a double to bring both runners home and give the Irish a 2-0 lead. Notre Dame added one in the sixth on a Frank Jacobs RBI, but the Titans touched freshman Dave Sinnes for two in their half of the in­ning. Sinnes, though, set the Titans down in order in the seventh to notch his second complete game victory. Sinnes lowered his ERA to an amazing 

0.81 (in 44.3 innings of work) by allowing no earned runs. · The Titans only managed two 
hits. The second game proved to a much more wide open game with offense taking center stage. Detroit roared out to an 8-0 lead after five innings as Brian Piotrowicz took the brunt of the Titan assault. The senior righthander gave up 5 runs (3 earned), 4 hits and walked 3 in three innings. Senior lefty Dave Legus came on to slow down the Titan Express over the next 3 2/3 innings in yielding only two earned runs. 

Meanwhile, the Irish began yet another tremendous come­back. In the sixth, walks to 

•
Softball team WinS 
dy MICHAEL MALODY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish softball team, suc­cessful in 16 of its last 17 out­ings, will host the Lady Blue Demons of DePaul for a dou­bleheader 4:00 o'clock this afternoon at the Notre Dame Softball Field, the second such meeting between the two foes this season. 
In early April, the Chicago­based Blue Demons captured both games of a doubleheader 


over the Irish in the Windy City. 

Sheri Quinn
DePaul convincingly controlled the first game, battering the hit the ball well, play great de­Irish 6-1 in the second, the fense, and have strong pitchers. Demons squeaked out a 3-2 But if we have a productive day 
come-from-behind victory. offensively, we are capable of "DePaul has a very talented beating them." team," Boulac assessed. "They For offensive production. the 

Cory Mee and Dan Bautch pre­ceeded a three-run shot by sel­dom used catcher Greg Hudson. The Irish picked up one more in the seventh, and then opened the flood gates with five in the eighth. The Irish picked up one make it 8-5 and then Adam "Throw me a fastball and I'll crush it" Maisano launched a grandslam that almost disman­tled the Campell Complex's leftfield scoreboard. The Irish led 9-8 after Maisano's 4th 
see BASEBALL I page 13 
16 of 17 

Irish (32-14) depend on the speed of their catalysts in the top of the lineup and the power in the heart of their line-up, 
featuring  the  bats  of Rachel  
Crossen,  Megan  Fay,  Amy  
Folsom,  and  Sheri  Quinn.  

Quinn, showing no signs of her early season injury, has ignited as of late. The freshman third baseman hit .500 this weekend with a home run and 4 RBI. 
Inspiring performances from Missy Linn, Staci Alford, and Ronny Alvarez have been the pitching strength for the Irish. Linn, in particular, is coming off the first perfect game of her career, blanking Saint Mary's on Saturday. She is expected to start the first game and Alford will likely start the second. 
Men's tennis to face Division Ill force Kalamazoo 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 

While the 23-4 Notre Dame men's tennis team anxiously awaits to hear from the NCAA selection committee regarding its tournament chances, Head Coach Bob Bayliss takes his squad to Kalamazoo, Mich., to take on Kalamazoo, the No. 1 team in Division III. 
The Irish case to be a partici­pant in the 1990 NCAA team championships in Indian Wells, Cal., has rested. Bayliss and company have a very strong case that would be hard to rule against. 
"Kalamazoo is traditionally 
see TENNIS I page 12 




