
VOL. XXIII NO. 22 TUESDAY , SEPTEMBER 25, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lecture promotes hemp for food, fuel, and fiber Herer: marijuana legalization can 'save earth' 
By JOE GODIN be a majority in favor of legal­hibits contained hemp. Herer 
News Writer ization." called the Smithsonian and 
Although he realized it would asked them why the public does 
Jack Herer has been studying still take a long time to achieve not know this. He said they 
marijuana for over 17 years. legalization, he felt there was claimed that children should 
And last night he spoke in hope. He wrote a book called not know about that. 
front of about 75 people at the ~ which demonstrated both He has documented his latest 
Center for Social Concerns on the positive and negative effects discoveries in his newest book 
what he has learned and what of marijuana. The Emperor Wears No Clothes. 
he believes the world must do According to the book, mari­Among his most interesting 
to cure our energy problems, juana dilates the arteries, low­discoveries are that marijuana 
reverse the greenhouse effect, ers body stress and tempera­may have been the first plant 
and help people to live longer. ture and also allows you to live ever cultivated on earth. 
Before he founded the na­longer. After Jack Herer Smoking marijuana can cure 
tional organization called Help started smoking marijuana, his glaucoma, asthma, and 
End Marijuana Prohibition ulcer went away. anorexia. According to Herer, 
(HEMP), he had little contact Soon after publication, Herer there are five people in the U. 
with marijuana. started receiving calls from S. smoking marijuana solely for 
He first smoked marijuana in people who had researched the glaucoma, an eyesight disease. 
1969 with some friends. At the subject. He found out that "The problem with this is that 
time he was a California busi­marijuana is also called they have to smoke about 11 
nessman. After finding startling cannabis hemp, which, joints a day because they smoke 
facts about the true nature and throughout history, has been green leaf. The U.S. govern­
various uses of marijuana, also used to make canvas and rope. ment will not let them smoke 
known as hemp, he started a This material made up the anything stronger," said Herer. 
personal crusade for marijuana sails that powered 16th and Herer also said that in the 
legalization. 17th century ships, including 1930's it was widely believed 
"When I first smoked mari­the Mayflower. Herer asked the that once machinery was com­juana, music sounded good to crowd,"We have a product that plete hemp would become the me. I would see different colors is left out of our education. biggest single industry in the in the air. I didn't even like What do you think of your United States. music before," Herer said. It teachers for not telling you Herer's lecture became more was at that point that he began about this? Are you mad?" A dramatic when he moved to the studying marijuana. barrage of arms shot into air. topic of the greenhouse effect. 
In 1972 he petitioned in In World War II, hempseed oil He called the government of­California for the legalizati{Jn of was used because it had a ficials in charge of reversing marijuana. Thirty-four percent better viscosity. Furthermore, a the greenhouse effect and of the people responded in his visit to the Smithsonian re­global warming. Both officials favor. llerer thought, "Only 17 vealed that over 80 percent of percent more and there would the Colonial and Maritime ex-see HEMP I page 7 
Soviet Union makes steps toward free marKet economy 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev stock markets trading shares in program, but also says the developed by legislative legislature voted Monday to re­sitting alone on a raised stage competitive companies. more conservative recipe committees and the authors of verse seven decades of Commu­in the chamber. The program marked a drafted by Prime Minister the various programs. nist-style economics, giving The lawmakers then began significant change in Nikolai Ryzhkov should be preliminary approval to a debating the resolution clause Gorbachev's tactics. His incorporated into it. The Soviet public has become rescue plan for switching the by clause. They were to vote on perestroika program had been increasingly disappointed in Soviet Union to a free market possible amendments later aimed at "restructuring" A third, more radical plan, Gorbachev's handling of the economy. Monday. centralized socialism, but now has been adopted by the economic crisis, and dozens of 
Members of the Supreme The program would reverse is moving toward destroying it. Russian Federation, the largest protesters chanted at Soviet voted 323-11 to endorse the basic aim of the Bolshevik Lawmakers had been of the 15 Soviet republics with lawmakers as they arrived for a blueprint for making the eco­Revolution and Stalin's brutal scheduled to vote on the half the country's people and the morning debate. nomic conversion within 500 collectivism, whose legacy is an program on Friday, but failed to three-quarters of its territory. days. It was not immediately inefficient economy where food muster a quorum and had to Previous attempts to merge "The people don't trust Gor­clear when the program would rots on its way to market and adjourn to Monday. the conflicting proposals have bachev," about a dozen demon­begin. consumer shortages now Gorbachev had expressed failed because they are so strators shouted outside the 
Fifty-six legislators abstained include bread. frustration on Friday, saying fundamentally different. Kremlin's Spassky Gate. They from the historic vote. there was no more time to held signs that read "a 
There was no applause or It would create a federation "talk, think, try and Monday's resolution says a fi­president -not an emperor" other display of emotion when of republics with economies experiment." nal detailed program should be and "all decrees of the the electronic vote result was built on private businesses, The resolution endorses Gor­presented to the Supreme president are battles against announced, not even by individually owned farms and bachev's compromise economic Soviet by Oct. 15. It is to be democracy." 
Judge refuses Keating's Security reports three plea to have bail reduced incidents of indecent 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Jailed charges against him are so se­

exposure around ND 
savings and loan executive rious he might flee. Charles H. Keating Jr. asked a That amount is far too high Special to The Observer The suspect is described as a 
state appeals court Monday to for Keating to meet and 50 male Caucasian, 18 to 20 yearsreduce or cancel his $5 million times higher than the bail im­Notre Dame Security is cur­old, slight build and tall, bail in a criminal fraud case posed in identical cases, his rently investigating three re­medium length dark hair and 
stemming from the collapse of lawyers said in papers filed ported incidents of indecent ex­pale complexion, Hurley said. his Lincoln Savings. with the appeals court. posure.Keating's multimillion-dollar They said he has shown he The suspect's vehicle is de­
income, lavish personal habits isn't a flight risk by never The suspect's method of op­scribed as an older model, and risky investments made dodging any proceeding against eration was to call a female to cream colored station wagon,him a symbol of the savings and him, even though he's known his car and ask where the Ad­with a ladder on top of it. loan debacle. He contends he's for a year he was under crimi­missions Office was located, being made a scapegoat, is nal as well as civil investigation. said Chuck Hurley, assistant di­If anyone observes a vehicle broke, and cannot adequately They painted a picture of a rector of Security. on or around campus matching
defend himself against the host man of exemplary ties to family this description, they are asked of lawsuits against him if he is and community, ready to sur­The offenses occurred at: to please contact Security locked up. render his passport, with no 4:15 p.m., Sept. 19 on Dorr immediately and attempt to 
After a two-day hearing last homes or bank accounts out­Road, east of Juniper Road; obtain the license plate number. week, Superior Court Judge side the country, wanting only a 4:17 p.m., Sept. 19 in the D-2 Gary Klausner refused to lower chance to vigorously defend his parking lot; and 4:32 p.m., Security can be reached at the $5 million bail, saying the innocence. Sept. 19 in the C-1 parking lot. 239-5555. 




page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Notre Dame needs some 'play time' 
With all the con­struction going on around campus I'm surprised Notre Dame has not yet found space for the 

one structure we truly Alison Cocks need: a playground. Editor-in-Chief 
Sure, a $33 million classroom complex and an extra gold structure or two are 
probably helpful in achieving the Univer­sity's newest goal: to become a REALLY GREAT research institution, but a play­ground would help to resolve a more impor­tant issue: morale. It's a rare individual who can take himself seriously while playing "Red Ught, Green Ught" in the sand pit. 
After all, short of actually living together in the SAME DORM, what could possibly re­duce tensions between the sexes more than an opportunity for girls and boys to throw sand at each other? 
It works at age three when Susie Snowflake invites everyone to her birthday party except one or two people. Three-year­olds never invite fifty of their closest friends to analyze lost invitations in the Huddle. In­stead they form an army, douse some pony­tails in some dirt and forget the whole thing. 
I also have visions of 'King of the Hill' contests on the $10 million gold-plated jun­gle gym replacing the student body elec­tions. 
The candidate who pushes the opposition off the jungle gym the quickest, without the aid of table tents, skywriting, or hopelessly dry campaign slogans wins the FRED line, a corner suite in LaFortune and the right to be harassed on a daily basis by Observer reporters. 
It could also do wonders for weekend sto­ries. Instead of "Oh boy, I got really WASTED last night and puked in the glove compartment of the taxi and mashed with my Assistant Rector in our 24-hour lounge," we'd hear, "I sat in a swing and pumped so hard I could see the stars, and then I jumped off and I was so dizzy I couldn't stand up for two minutes." It would be an excellent venue for the an­nual snowball fight too. Instead of breaking windows in the Administration Building, students could aim their missiles at a tree­house with a replica of the Dome on top. Cynical readers are probably asking what use a playground could be in inclement weather (i.e. most of the year). No problem. Stepan Center is vacant once again, since Sacred Heart has re-opened. I can't picture the University holding serious functions in a building that looks like a golf ball, but with a little sand and some equipment, Stepan could actually earn its keep. If nothing else, it could provide the most creative justification ever for raising tuition. I might even swallow it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

Freshman registers will be distributed Sept. 25, 26, and The English Majors Club will be holding a meeting today 27 from 9 a.m. -5 p.m. at the Information Desk in the at 7 p.m. in Room 217, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Attendance LaFortune Student Center. of members is vital, as preparations for the upcoming 
concession stand before the Purdue game will be dis­
Free information on natural family planning will be of­cussed. Interested non-English majors are also invited to fered today at 7 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. attend. Classes for married and engaged couples will also begin Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healy auditorium. For All geographic club presidents are asked to stop in the more information or to register, call the NFP office at Alumni Association Office, 201 Main Building, to report 237-7401. their names and addresses. This information is needed to 
answer student's questions regarding transportation 
Math club organizational meeting will take place today home during breaks. at 7 p.m. in Room 188, Nieuwland Science Hall. For more information, call Tim at 283-1421 or Dan at 283-1509. Senior formal committee applications can be picked up 
at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune or the Hag­Senior portraits are still being taken this week. Sign up gar College Center at Saint Mary's and must be returned at LaFortune Information Desk for an appointment. by Wednesday. 
WORLD Israeli army bulldozers razed shops and Winnie Mandela and seven former associates houses on Monday to punish Palestinians suspected of will stand trial in February on charges of kidnapping and killing a soldier in a Gaza Strip refugee camp, Arab assaulting four young men, a magistrate decided Monday. reports and U.N. officials said. A dozen buildings were The charges against Mandela stem from a. De~e~ber destroyed before a Supreme Court restraining order 1988 incident in which 14-year-old Stompe1 Se1pe1 as halted demolition, they said, including the gas station killed. The former head of Mandela's bodyguards, Jerry where the soldier was stoned to death. Reserve Sgt. Richardson, has been convicted of murder and sentenced Amnon Pomeranz, 46, was stoned to death in the Bureij to death in the case. During Richardson's trial, the other refugee camp Thursday after his car hit a donkey cart, three victims testified they were abducted by members of injuring two Palestinian teenagers. The Palestinian mob the Mandela United Football Club -Mandela's body­set his car and body afire with gasoline-soaked rags. The guards -and taken to her Soweto home. They said Man­army spokesman's office declined comment. dela beat them with a whip, and the others also assaulted 
them. 
NATIONAL

Alan Cranston . Senator from California, says he will vote against 
The American Red Cross opened a center the confirmation of Supreme Court devoted to tracing the fates of people held in Nazi nominee David Souter because the fed­concentration camps Monday to handle flood a requests eral appelas court judge refuses t,o expected now that the Soviet Union has released records back the pro-abortion stance. Sena­on 400,000 prisoners. The Holocaust and War Victims tors Howell Heflin, D-Ala., and Dennis Tracing and Information Center offers hope to people still DeConcini, D-Ariz., joined the five Re­wondering about their loved ones 45 years after the end publicans on the 14-member panel of World War II. The latest documents include nearly who have made public their support 70,000 death certificates from the Auschwitz for Souter in advance of Thursday's vote. Three years concentration camp in Poland. Also included are the ago, opposition from Heflin, DeConcini and Sen. Arlen names of 130,000 prisoners forced to work in Germany Specter, R-Pa., the most liberal Republican on the panel, and 200,000 names of victims in other camps 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  Production  
Beth Peterson  
News  Christine Anderson  
Joe Moody  VIewpoint 

Keraleen Ryan Julie Shepherd Caroline Clarke 
Accent 
Jennifer Querin 
Systems Gil GomezSports 
Fritz Valsaint Frank Pastor 
Rolando Deaguian 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

-----~-------------~ --~ ---~ -~----­
Tuesday, September 25, 1990
The Observer 
WEATHER 

FOrecast tor noon, Tuesday, Sept. 25. Lines show high temperatures. 
60 
Yesterday's high: 67 Yesterday's low: 40 Nation's high: 97 
(Phoenix, Ariz.) Nation's low: 33 (Falls City, Neb.) 
Forecast: 
Sunny and breezy today 
with highs in the low 70s. 
Lows tonight in the low 
50s. Slightly warmer to­
morrow with highs in the 
middle 70s. 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~~~ ~ m 0 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
helped doom Judge Robert Bork's chances. 
ALMANAC 
On September 25: 
eln 1513: Spanish explorer Vasco Nunez de Balboa crossed the Isthmus of Panama to discover the Pacific Ocean. 
eln 1890: Mormon president Wil­ford Woodruff issued a Manifesto formally renouncing the practice of polygamy. 
eln 1957: Nine black children who had been forced to withdraw from Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., because of unruly white crowds were escorted to their classes by U.S. Army guards. 
eln 1981: Sandra Day O'Connor was sworn in as the first woman justice on the U.S. Supreme Court .. 
e Ten years ago: The Freedom sailed to victory to retain the America's Cup, defeating the Australia in the best-of-7 series off Newport, R.I. 
INDIANA 

The Associated Press on Sept. 22 erroneously listed the number of confirmed AIDS victims in Indiana as 456. The State Board of Health says that as of Sept. 1 there had been 891 confirmed in Indiana. The lower figure was cited by Dr. Howard Hess of Indianapolis, head of a state task force on AIDS, in discussing the group's yearlong study of the disease. 
A new survey shows Gov. Evan Bayh and Sen. Richard Lugar are neck-and-neck when its comes to their personal popularity among Hoosier voters. Lugar, a Republican, and Bayh, a Democrat, shared a favorability rating of 78 per­cent. The poll, which surveyed 802 registered vot­ers on Sept. 10-12, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, was com­missioned by the Indianapolis Star. The survey said most voters are satisfied with Bayh's job performance. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 167.51 .. 3.52 S&P Composite 304.59 
.. 6.73 
Dow Jones Industrials 59.41
2,452.97 .. 
Precious Metals Gold +$13.6 to$ 403/oz. 
Silver+ .13¢ to$ 4.915/oz. 

------~ ---~-----~--------------------------------~-----~----­
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 The Observer page 3 


Pandora's campaigns against book banning 
By COLLEEN CONLEY racism and discussing and
• More on banning I page 4
News Writer evaluating it with them, the chances are better that they 
Visitors this week to Pan­and "to get interested in more won't grow up to be prejudiced dora's Books will be greeted by than what's going on in their or bigoted, she continued. a yield sign cautioning them to lives." 
be aware of "books at work," Arnold pointed out that it is Arnold went on to say that as the store kicks off its cam­commonly school districts or children should be opened to paign against censorship and public libraries who ban books topics that society traditionally banned books. and that "they have the best in­wants to shield them from, such terests of the community at as the occult or witchcraft. The display, at the store's 808 heart, trying to protect the because it is through exposure 
Howard St. location, is part of a community from perceived to these fantastical mediums nationwide promotion evils. But they do more harm that children learn to discern "Celebrating the Freedom to than good by banning, story from reality. 
Read" and will contain a collec­[because] there's not much tion of historically controversial freedom when you can't print Additionally, there are 
and challenged books. These the things you want to ... cen­"horrendous theories and books have been banned for sorship is the same kind of de­philosophies" such as Adolf reasons ranging from language nial by not allowing [books] to Hitler's Mein Kampf that are that is considered offensive to be accessible ... read your First worthy of reading because "in content that is considered Amendment." a tangential sort of way ... [it] is racist. a means of ensuring that these 
School children, in particular, things are not forgotten." 
Store manager Mandy Arnold, are seriously disadvantaged by a Notre Dame graduate censorship because when they Saint Mary's assistant pro­student, said Pandora's hopes are denied access to delicate fessor of political science Sean to make "people aware that subjects, they miss the whole Savage affirmed Arnold's posi­censorship is alive and well in point of discussing and ques­tion favoring intellectual free­this country," and to encourage tioning a book's portrayal of dom. On a level of secondary attitudes that will allow for education, he maintained that
sensitive material, said Arnold. 
wide accessibility to all types of "This is not very healthy ... and "as long as books are not sexu­books. f)eads to] a society of mindless ally explicit, I really don't see idiots running around who any reason to have a censor­"We are not out to gross don't question their existence." ship policy. The First Amend­
The Observer I Eric Bailey
sales," Arnold said. Instead, the ment protects virtually com­
Pandora's bookstore is currently participating in a nationwide
store's primary focus is to incite By introducing children at a plete and absolute access to 
promotion to heighten awareness of the results of book banning.
oeople to "enliven their minds" young age to issues such as ideas in print." 



'Gays and lesbians' make plea to be accepted and recognized by Notre Dame 
By PETER AMEND often feel the oppression that News Writer comes from misinformation and misunderstanding about 
Mike W. Miller and John homosexuality, we call upon the Corvino, co-chairs of Gays and student body of this University Lesbians of ND/SMC, ask that to open their minds and hearts the Notre Dame community ac­to their gay brothers and sisters cept unconditionally their gay and to stand up against any members by recognizing Na­form of violence. discrimi­tional Coming Out Day (NCOD). nation, or harassment. 
Miller and Corvino spoke at •Also, recognizing how diffi­the Student Senate meeting this cult it is for gay and lesbian week and offered the following people to live openly in an op­written proposal: pressive environment, we sup­
•The Student Senate of the port the students in the Notre University of Notre Dame, rec­Dame community who have ognizing and fully appreciating chosen to live openly and not to the Catholic nature of this Uni­conceal or repress this basic versity and all that it repre­aspect of their identities. sents, wholeheartedly con­•Therefore, be it resolved demns discrimination, harass­that the Student Senate of the 

The Observer I Elisa Klosterman ment, and violence against gay University of Notre Dame pro­

Dining out 

and lesbian people. claims 11 October 1990 Na­Freshman Jenny Tate and Allyson Grippando relax and enjoy the sumptuous and varied cuisine offered •Recognizing that gay and tional Coming Out Day at Notre to all students at North Dining Hall. lesbian students on this campus Dame in conjunction with the celebration across the country of NCOD in America. The Senate will vote on the proposal next week. Also addressing the Senate, Adworks President, Damian


SAyiTWITff 
Shiner, explained how Adworks has been reorganized to pre­vent another loss. Shiner said he has cut the payroll staff by one third, and made the ac­counting and distribution sys­tems more efficient. "We have had no problems this year, and do not foresee any losses," said 

BA:l:lOO}{S: 
""' '\''\.,!. 
Shiner."'"""' .... Finally, the HPC report stated 
~OM ~ c . -. ' 
.---~"~~
l that the HPC will sponsor the 
#-___ .
::.o_~-----_. 
first annual "Quarter Smorgas­
tfljj' ' . • 
~ . . . 
bord", held this Friday from 4-7
lf1. h 
. . p.m. on Holy Cross Field. All : . proceeds will go to the Women's Care Center and Zhengde


lta~~ens ~ 
Wang, the ND student who was 
hit by a drunk driver and is still at St. Joseph's Hospital. 

Basement of Lafortune 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
We Deliver daily to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross campuses 
Visa/Mastercard 283-4242 Closed home football Saturdays 
page 4 
ALA kicks off national Banned Books Week 
CHICAGO (AP) -What do Dr. Seuss, Stephen King and the editors of Webster's dictionary have in common? Theirs are among the scores of books banned or challenged in the past year, the American Library Association said Monday in launching Banned Books Week. 
"We need to bring to the at­tention of American public the fact that our First Amendment rights are under attack," said Judith Krug, director of the association's Office for Intellectual Freedom. 
A Webster's Dictionary edi­tion was challenged in the Up­per Pittsgrove Township, N.J.. school district because parents objected to the definition of sexual intercourse as "the sexual joining of two individuals," said Paul Whitman, secretary of the school board. 
The 1986 dictionary -an edition edited especially for teenagers -was removed from fourth and fifth grade classrooms last fall, but continues to be used in upper levels, he said. Whitman said 
Adrianne Moore takes part in a candle lighting ceremony held at Dag Hammarskjold Plaza in New York on Sunday to demand that world leaders work to prevent the deaths of 40,000 children a day. 
he didn't know what portion of the definition provoked the challenge. 
"The Lorax" by Dr. Seuss' was challenged in a Laytonville, Calif., school district last September. Parents working for a local logging company said the book portrayed their industry negatively. 
The book remained on the second-grade required reading list after the challenge. but teachers voluntarily moved it to an optional list the following spring, said Superintendent Brian Buckley. 
Stephen King's "The Stand" was restricted to ninth-grade students with parental consent at Whitford Intermediate School in Beaverton, Ore. after some parents objected to violence and sexual language. Another King novel, "Christine," was pulled from the library at Washington Middle School in Meriden, Conn., after a parent complained about offensive passages. 

AP Photo 

Clarification 
In an article in The Observer of Wednesday, Sept. 19, one of the cosponsors of the upcoming lecture titled "Understanding and Claiming our Sexuality" was omitted due to an error in a press release Student government is also cosponsoring this event. 


Focus 
on

America's 

Future 


Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
~ ~!Eboc9l~\Q1.2§ 
THIS SPACE CONTRIBt.JTEO BY THE PUBLISHER 

The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1990 

CINCINNATI (AP) 
Potential  jurors  in  an  
obscenity  trial  involving  
Robert  Mapplethorpe's  

sexually explicit photos were asked Monday whether they look at Playboy magazine or attend arts fund-raisers. 
Many questioned during the first day of jury selection said they'd seen such adult magazines as Playboy, Pent­house and Hustler, but said they didn't subscribe. None acknowledged having taken an art class or attending a fund-raiser for the arts. 
The Contemporary Arts Cen­ter and its director, Dennis Barrie, were charged in April with pandering obscenity and displaying nude photos of chil­dren. The photographs were from the exhibit "Robert Map­plethorpe: The Perfect Mo­ment." 
The seven-week exhibition 
of photographs by Mapplethorpe, who died of AIDS in March 1989, attracted a record crowd of more than 80,000 people to the gallery last spring. 
About 150 gay-rights and anti-censorship demonstrators protested the trial outside the Hamilton County Courthouse from mid-morning through the noon hour Monday. They sometimes disrupted traffic, but there were no arrests. 
The charges are both misde­meanors. If convicted. Barrie. 43, faces a possible fine of $1,000 and six months in jail on each count. The gallery could be fined $5,000 on each count. 
A panel of eight jurors and two alternates will be chosen to hear the trial in Hamilton County Municipal Court. Jury selection was expected to con­tinue through Tuesday, with testimony lasting into next week. 
A pool of 50 prospective jurors was assembled Monday, but attorneys got less than 
halfway through questioning the first group of eight. "Would you avoid a homo­sexual art display?" the 
gallery's attorney, Marc Mezi­bov, asked one prospective juror. 
"I wouldn't put out money to see homosexual art," the man 
responded.  
Mezibov prospective testimony  also jurors will deal  told that with  

Mapplethorpe's homosex­uality. 
Prosecutor Frank Prouty asked prospective jurors whether they had seen Playboy, Penthouse or Hustler magazines and whether they had taken art classes or at­tended an arts fund-raiser. 
Judge David Albanese asked all 50 prospective jurors if they had any personal contact with the art community. One person said she was a member of the Contemporary 
Arts Center, and three said 
they had seen the exhibit. 
Protesters outside denounced the trial as homophobic intimidation. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~. 
UNDERSTANDING AND CLAIMING OUR 
SEXUALITY 
A Presentation and Discussion with 
Patricia Livingston 


September 26, 1990 
7:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
•
STUDENT 
1111111111 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 The Observer page·5 





AIDS victim made sex a hobby 
Sleeping with 15 girls regularly proves deadly 
NAIROBI. Kenya (AP) -By women is infected with the adults in many African coun­the time Ronnie Mutimusekwa HIV virus that causes AIDS. In tries, said Merson. was 15, he was sleeping regu­the United States, which has The average African victim, larly with three different girls. recorded about half the however, differs from his A few years later, the number world's known cases of AIDS, American or European coun­had grown to 15 and he was one of every 75 men and 700 terpart, who is usually a proud to think any woman he women has HIV, WHO homosexual or an intravenous asked would go to bed with estimates. drug user. In Africa, most him. Because of under-AIDS casualties are 
"I guess I made sex a recognition, under-reporting heterosexuals. Because of hobby," said the 34-year-old. and delays in reporting, WHO this, the number of women A deadly hobby. estimates only a fraction of infected roughly equals the 
Mutimusekwa, from Zim­the world's cases of AIDS and number of men. babwe's southern city of Bul­HIV have been recorded. And because many of the in­awayo, contracted AIDS. He As of mid-1990, about fected women are in their does not know who gave it to 65,000 AIDS cases had been prime, HIV transmission from him, nor does he know who reported from Africa. But mother to child is an may have caught it from him. WHO estimates closer to increasing problem. 
Behavior like his has con­500,000 adult AIDS cases Already this year, about tributed to the rapid spread of probably exist -more than 500,000 children carrying the the disease in Africa, and has half the estimated global total. HIV virus have been born in helped make the continent the In what it calls a Africa, says WHO. The organi­AIDS center of the world. conservative estimate, the zation estimates an additional 
Two-thirds of the world's es­organization says 5 million 2 million to 3 million infected timated AIDS cases are in Africans may be HIV carriers. infants will be born before the Africa, and most of those are "AIDS and HIV are year 2000. Another 10 million concentrated in about 12 becoming more and more a children born to infected countries across the disease of the developing mothers but who will not continent's central, eastern world," said Michael Merson, contract the disease are and southern regions. WHO's anti-AIDS chief, in a expected to become AIDS­
The problem only threatens telephone interview from related orphans in the 1990s, to get worse, according to Geneva. "By the year 2000, says WHO. medical experts. Infection we expect 80 percent of the rates, unlike those in most cases to be in the developing Dambudzo, a 26-year-old other areas of the world, are world." unemployed Zimbabwean, lost rising in Africa. If current a 2-year-old daughter to the trends continue, millions of The organization says about disease. The divorcee said she African infants will be born 20 million cases worldwide learned she had AIDS while with the deadly disease, and are expected by the end of the still in the hospital after Africa's population growth century. delivering her baby. rate -now the world's Merson includes Latin highest -will be cut as AIDS America when he speaks of "I was really hurt because kills those in what should be AIDS and the developing the baby had also contracted the most productive time of world, but WHO statistics the disease and whenever she their lives. show the severity of the was brought in for breast­
Which way is home?
The Geneva-based World disease in Africa far outstrips feeding, I would look at her Health Organization estimates any other continent. and cry," Dambudzo told 
U. S. Air Force First Class Bob Edmond of Haverhill, Mass., 
that in sub-Saharan Africa, Today, AIDS is the leading Ziana, Zimbabwe's news 
stands outside his tent in Saudi Arabia next to a set of signs 
pointing to various points "back home" Monday. one of every 40 adult men and cause of death among young agency. 
SATURDAY,SEPTEMBER29 5:00p.m. Rev. Thomas Zurcher, CSC 
OFFICE OF 
(Z\MPUS
MINISTRY SUNDAV,.SEPTEMBER 30 

University of Notre Dame 
10:00 a.m. Rev.Thomas Zurcher, CSC
Notre Dome, IN 4eS~6 

11:45 a.m. Rev. Stephen Newton, CSC
Utrcrv c:oncws. 21t•Z3a·e~e 
lol*l Holl211•238·&242 
GRADUATE STUDENT STUDY BREAK TUESDAY NIGHTS 9:00-9:30 p.m. 103 HESBURGH LIBRARY Come out of your carrels and enjoy conversations, rendevous,coffee and snacks in the Campus Ministry office. 

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
Oil prices peak as world tightens sanctions on Saddam 
(AP) -World leaders opened a U.N. General Assembly session Monday by condemning Iraq as a warlike state for its invasion of Kuwait, as Iraqi President Saddam Hussein vowed to fight for "a thousand years" to keep the oil-rich emirate. 
While the world body pre­pared to tighten sanctions on Iraq, the economic repercus­sions of the Persian Gulf crisis spread and strengthened. 
Oil prices peaked at $39.20 a barrel and settled at a record $38.25 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, where oil futures have been traded since 1983. Gasoline and home heating oil both topped $1 a gallon. The International Monetary fund, meanwhile, moved to help poor countries whose economies are being devastated by the conflict. 
The stock market in New York fell to a 14-month low Monday, battered by rising oil prices and trouble in the banking industry. The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 59.41 points to 2,452.97. 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 19 

4:17 p.m. A resident of Breen· Phillips Hall and a resident of Farley Hall reported that a man exposed himself in the 0·2 parking lot after asking for directions to the Admis· sions Office. 
4:32 p.m. A law student reported that a man exposed himself in the C-1 parking lot after asking for directions to the Admissions Office. 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 
20 

5:10 p.m. A Notre Dame em· ployee reported damage to her car that was parked in the B-1 parking lot. 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 21 
10:40 a.m. A Notre Dame em· ployee reported the theft of house· hold appliances from his office at the Galvin Life Sciences building. 
2:20 p.m. A resident of Lyons Hall reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall. 
3:20 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported vandalism to his car while it was parked in the A·15 lot. 
5:40 p.m. A suspicious person was reported loitering in the racquet­ball area of the JACC. 
2:59 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported money stolen from his room. 
SATURDAY, SEPT.22 

11 :35 p.m. A suspicious person was reported at O'Hare -Grace apart· ments. The suspect was posing as a pizza delivery man. 
Hemp 
continued from page 1 
agreed that what the world has 
to stop doing is burning fossil 
fuels. 
Herer is one of the only peo­
ple in the U.S. allowed to smoke 
marijuana legally. He main­
tains an extremely serious atti­
tude toward the cause for 
which he has been fighting for 
one-third of his lifetime. 
Herer was incredulous, won­dering how someone could sac­rifice the safety of the world on the premise of legality. "When I was a kid, and believe me I'm not being facetious, I never dreamed that politicians would sell out the sky, the ozone layer, and our country," Herer said. 
"Facts are our only clue to 
what the future holds for us," 
Herer said. He believes that 
hemp is the only way the world 
will be saved and he won't back 
down from anyone who tells 
him otherwise. "I'll get in your 
face if you do not let me live 
longer. I will step in your face 
when you are on your deathbed 
if you do not let me live longer." 
French President Francois Mitterrand delivered the first of a series of condemnations of Iraq, warning that Iraq's aggression could lead to global anarchy. Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze speaks Tuesday, and President Bush is to address the 160-member assembly next Monday. 
Bush said in Washington on Monday ''I'm not going to be distracted" by Saddam's ef­forts to link the crisis with the Israeli-Palestinian dispute. 
"First we've got to take care of the situation that exists right now, naked aggression of one country against the other. That cannot be permitted to stand," Bush told a group of Arab-American leaders in Washington. 
Saddam has suggested one way to ease the crisis would be for Israel to leave the Arab territories it has occupied since 1967. 
Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, was to address the United Nations the same day as Bush, but he has insisted on traveling to New York aboard Iraq's flag carrier, 
E ti f . . . . AP Photo
Iraqi Airways. 
gyp ans rom the 4th Infantry DiVISIOn march off a shtp as part of an arrival display for Saudi dignitaries at the port of Yanbu, on the Red Sea, Saturday. ­


Tuesday, September 25, 1990 The Observer 
page 7 

Deficit hits record high 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House and congres­federal budget deficit jumped sional negotiators are trying 
$52.8 billion to a record $241.7 billion in August, but could be reduced before the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, the Treasury Department reported Monday. 
The 67 percent surge over the comparable 11 months of 1989 boosted the spending imbalance well over the record of $221.1 billion posted in fiscal 1986. The August total, however, fell short of the one-month record of $53.3 billion set last March. 
"We used to have years that were that bad," economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch said of the August deficit. 
The department said about $25 billion of the August deficit reflected a shift of payments normally made in September such as military pay and Social Security checks to the previous month to avoid Labor Day weekend delays. 
"This will affect September's results by $25 billion as com­pared to last year," it said in a statement. 
Still, without the $25 billion early payment, the deficit so far this fiscal year would have totaled $216.9 billion. The deficit in September 1989 was $6.1 billion. 
The Bush administration had forecast a $218.5 billion imbalance for all of fiscal 1990. 
Support the

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One 
March of Dimes 
Child Health Problem. illlilliiBIRTH DEFECtS FOUNDATIONllliliillii 
Student "Jump Start" Computer Classes Sponsored by: 


Office of University Computing 

Problen1: Solution: Call: 

• 
Paper due by 12:00 noon 

• 
Must use word rocessor 


• YOU DON'T KNOW HOW!! 
• 
OUC Student Training Program 

• 
Learn Macintosh and DOS word processing applications 

• 
Information Resource Center 


to reach agreement on reducing the deficit by $50 billion in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 and $500 billion over the next five years. 
Without an agreement, the White House estimates the fis­cal 1991 deficit will total $232.3 billion. 
Revenues in August totaled $78.5 billion, up 3.1 percent from the comparable month in 1989. But the receipts were offset by $131.2 billion in outlays, a 33.5 percent gain over August 1989. 
In addition to the early pay­ments, the spending bill in­cluded $2.6 billion for the Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency charged with bailing out the savings and loan industry. The S&L bailout cost $3.2 billion in July and $37.8 billion so far this year. 
The government hopes to regain much of the bailout cost by selling real estate, loans, securities and other assets from failed thrifts. That would help reduce the deficit in future years. 
"It's just a continuation of the trends we've been seeing," Steinberg said. "Receipts are not that strong because the economy is weakening." 
Revenues for the first 11 months totaled $928.6 billion, up 4.2 percent from the first 11 months of last year. Spending during the period totaled $1.2 trillion, 12.8 percent over the comparable period of 1989. 
As usual, the biggest spend­ing categories were the mili­tary, Social Security and other programs of the Department of Health and Human Services and interest on the national debt. 
Military spending totaled $27.8 billion in August and $269.2 billion so far this year. It is projected to total $290.2 billion for the entire fiscal year. 
Social Security payments amounted to $41.2 billion for the month and $244.2 billion for the year. They are projected to total $244.9 billion for the year. 
Other HHS payments, including Medicare and Medicaid, totaled $18.3 billion in August and $179.7 billion for 1990 so far. They are projected to total $192.4 billion in fiscal 1990. 
Interest on the national debt amounted to $18.9 billion for the month and $247.6 billion so far this year. Such interest is projected to total $261.1 billion for the entire year. 
Bush's son faces judge for costing taxpayers $1 billion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's son Neil goes be­fore a judge Tuesday in Denver for a rare public hearing that could lead to his being barred from working for a bank or savings and loan. 
Federal regulators have ac­cused Bush, 35, of conflict of interest in his former role as a director of Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association, a Denver thrift that failed in late 1988 at an estimated cost to taxpayers of $1 billion. 
The hearing before an administrative law judge is the centerpiece of the government's complex proceeding against Bush, which has taken the form of a paperwork battle since the Office of Thrift Supervision filed the charges in February. 
The OTS is seeking an order against Bush, an oil and gas developer, to effectively bar him from working for a bank or a savings and loan. The agency contends that Bush failed to adequately disclose to Silverado his business relationships with developers Kenneth Good and Bill Walters, two big borrowers from Silverado who defaulted on their loans. 
Bush could have avoided a public hearing by agreeing not to dispute the conflict-of-inter­est charges, as other S&L offi­cials have done in nearly all such previous cases. By fighting the government, he has taken the case out of attorneys' and regulators' offices into a public forum. 
"The swords are drawn," Bush's attorney, James Nes­land, said recently. 
Bush plans to testify in his own defense at the hearing, which is expected to continue through most of the week. 
Although such a public hearing is almost unprecedented, the participants don't expect any fireworks or courtroom drama. In fact, Nesland said, "This is going to be an ex­traordinarily boring hearing." 
That's because it will mainly be a replay of written testimony already submitted to the administrative law judge, Daniel Davidson. Regulators and outside experts will be cross-exam­ined on that testimony by at­torneys for the two sides. 
The judge won't issue an opinion for some time. 
-------------------------· 
: The Castle & Co. : : I Men's Hairstyling I ; 
I YOU CHOOSE A FIRST ClASS CAMPUS, I : WHY NOT A FIRST ClASS HAIRCUT? I 
1 Haircut, SJ!!!mpoo, Blow Dry & Condition : 
: Reg. $15.00 1 I ~· Now $8.50 with I: ~ i: coupon : 
I .. MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1
239-8111 for information 
I 272-0312 277-1691 1
and registration 
I ~ 54533 Terrace Lane I 
I Across from Martin's
1:1::::====================================±1·-------------------------I 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990
page 8 
~Ihe_DbserYer-~-= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor.....•..•.........•.... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .•..•.......... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .•..••...... Amy Eckert Sports Editor •...•.••.•.•.•...•... Greg Guffey Production Manager ...........•. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ••.••.••..•.•••••Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ••••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .•••.•..•••..•.•......•.. Eric Bailey OTS Director ....••.•.•..••..•.•.•Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .••....•Corinne Pavlis Controller •................•••••• Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

By Mike Byrne 
I just turned 21 this past August 31 and one of the places where I was feted and sated at was The Commons. It's a friendly bar which can be found, for those underage peo­ple cannot get in there and thus, do not know its location, directly across from Bridget McGuire's. It was a memorable evening, for those I was with. And at one point during the night, while I was pensively downing a Prairie Fire, I re­membered something a man said to me in that very bar just two years ago. 
He was an older man, all alone at a barstool, but by no means in a stupor. He did have a beer in hand, but he quaffed it at his leisure-"nursing it," as some might say. His task at hand was not getting drunk. In fact, he really didn't seem to have a task at hand. The gospel he preached, however, when one was forced to get near him to order something from the here-because I could do bartender, was, "It's just so nothing but nod-and more 
complex, man." head shaking. "So complex." I 
Now here I am, waiting ever was pretty speechless, so I just so patiently for a stout lady to patted the guy-who had just serve up some stout, and this returned my pity-on the guy is just staring at me, shak­shoulder, and said, "You take it 
ing his head a little, and hand­easy, man," and walked away. ing me some philosophy jive. That piece of his mind has Now, one usually expects such remained with me since. It's spewings at the PLS-infested nothing you have to reflect Commons, but usually not from upon too deeply, and it providesthe mouth of someone with a no solutions. It just observes, grease-stained Seattle Mariners and it's true. I'd like to think of 
hat on his head. So I'm waiting, myself as someone who keeps so I bite. "What do you mean?" up with current events; I mini­I say out of curiosity, and, I am mally read The Observer every sorry to say, out of pity. weekday, and try to read The 
He said, "I don't know man. I New York Times or Chicago
feel bad for all you guys. I Tribune at least three times a thought I had it tough under­week. standing things when I was I'm afraid I'll have to pause
growing up. But nowadays, here a bit and pontificate about man, it just gets more complex why one should keep up with everyday." Some pausing the news, which I did not want 
DOONESBURY 

to have to do. But I realize that those who don't really follow the news, who are simply read­ing this to pass the time at lunch, in order to have some­thing to mutually rip on with the person across the table, will have no reason to continue reading unless they believe there's some reason to follow the news. Here goes. One should follow the news-in newspapers, magazines, on ra­dio, and/or on television, for, at a minimum, utterly selfish, practical reasons. If one is aware of the events which daily affect and change the globe, the nation, the state and the local­ity in which one lives, he can shape his actions on a local level so as to secure the best future he can for himself, his family and his friends. Conversely, the uninformed in­dividual unnecessarily gambles, to a greater degree, with his future. 
I once again apologize for placing this primer in front of adult eyes, but I felt the need to do so after entering a dorm bathroom recently to find each of four empty stalls with a newspaper on it floor. Three were turned to the Sports sec­tion; the fourth section was un­intelligible, as it was being used 
· to soak up water from a toilet whose bowl overflowed. All four were "USA Today." Now back to our show. Like I said, I like to stay relatively in­formed; I think it's a necessity. But reading straight through The New York Times these days is even more dizzying than it used to be. First of all, it would take hours to accomplish such a feat. We do have to live our 
lives, and not endlessly deter­mine, through weighing new in­formation. how to live them; hence, graduation. Secondly, even if one could somehow allo­cate enough time to read every­thing everyday, he could never have the necessary historical background to put these myriad news bites in context, to judge these editorials intelligently and objectively. As communications and economies expanded globally in recent years. we unpreparedly became inun­dated with new information. And the fact is that much of this new information is not ex­traneous; it is vital to be under­stood by our citizenry so they may make wise political choices for America and wise personal choices for themselves. 
That guy in the bar, that wise man, knew this. He said it, too. He didn't simply pass it off the instant it crossed his mind with a tired shoulder shrug. He ac­knowledged it, and it really dis­turbed him. It certainly is a disheartening task these days to try to keep informed when we have less "leisure time" to do so than ever before and when hundreds of events and business transactions-most beyond any deep understanding to the average guy-spiral out­ward each day, for the most part out of our control. I guess it's just a matter of gleaning the papers for those few articles with which we feel a connec­tion, upon which we feel the possibility of acting locally to affect change for the better. It's what we really must do to act responsibly, for our own sake and for others. Because it's even more disheartening to think of living in this complex global village without a clue­informationally unarmed, and dangerous. 
Mike Byrne is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Parents who wonder where the younger generation is going should remember where it came from.' 
Sam Ewing 

Accent 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 page 9 
DIAL F-R-E-D! 
New suggestion line attracts offbeat grievances 
STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 

In its first year of existence, the FRED line is bringing an in­teresting new aspect to the Notre Dame community. The FRED line, NO student gov­ernment's latest method of gaining input from the student body, is bringing in important suggestions and comments for possible improvements by stu­dent government. 
ND students who dial x3733 (F-R-E-0) are welcomed by a short, recorded message which requests that they leave their suggestions, along with their name, address and phone num­ber so that they can be con­tacted later. The use of an an­swering machine in this process enables the service to be of­fered 24 hours a day. 
At regular intervals, the mes­sages are replayed by student body Vice-President, Fred Tombar. Fred takes down the messages on a suggestion form, which is designed to facilitate the referring of suggestions to the appropriate department for action. Then, student body Secretary, Nicole Farmer, makes sure that the suggestion forms are sorted and given to the proper department coordinator. Nicole also occasionally assists in the taking of messages. 
The first weeks of the FRED line's existence brought a steady stream of calls into the student government office, which is located on the second floor of LaFortune. According to Fred, there were originally about 20 calls a day. Numbers have now begun to level out at about five calls daily. Of these five, three or so usually can be recognized as "helpful" or "very helpful. II 
Most of the useful sugges­tions thus far have been re­ferred to the student life de­partment. The department covers women's concerns, minority concerns, campus improvements, and student services, as well as campus security and the areas of alcohol, food, and health. Numerous students have responded in the areas of student service and campus improvement. There have also been significant ideas expressed about security. In fact, the new lighting being developed in the 02 parking lot can be linked with the FRED line. 
Yet, along with the Mhelpful" calls, the line has also received a great number of calls which, although not necessarily discouraged by student government, have created a certain FRED line mystique. These calls, ranging from the abstract to the obscene, make up the more bizarre half of the FRED line. 
The FRED line's bizarre calls have provided student government with entertainment and an abundance of ideas which would probably not arise at even the greatest of brain­storming sessions. They have also provided criticism of everyday elements of the university from interesting perspectives. And as a service to some students, the FRED line has managed to serve, from the viewpoint of student body President, Rob Pasin, as "almost a 976 number " or a "Dear Abby." People have mourned about football ticket sales, as well as problems oc­curring in relationships. 
Some specific examples of bizarre calls may shed light on the mysterious side of the FRED line. They also will serve as testimony to the ingenuity of the student body. While some of these calls were possibly in­tended to be serious, it is highly unlikely that they all were. 
Looking at the structure of the academic year, one student commented that classes should not be held on Mondays or Fridays. Another felt that classes should start later in the year so that students would have time to build their lofts. 
The area of campus im­provements brought yet an­other interesting request. Apparently nighttime waders through the Hesburgh reflect­ing pool were shocked to dis­cover that, upon emergence from the water, their legs had turned blue. It was suggested that the dye presently used in the pool be removed to avoid further incidents. 
Some socially conscious sug­gestions have been made. For example, a student requested that the gold in the dome be melted down and the proceeds used to feed the hungry people of the world. 
The mention of bizarre calls to the FRED line would be in­complete without the mention­ing of the line's regular caller. This caller claims to be, incred­ible as it may sound to political science majors, to be the high ranking official which leaked the Watergate scandal, "Deep Throat." This notable official, now a resident of Pangborn Hall, has observed various in­justices occurring on the cam­
pus grounds. 
One of "Deep Throat's" ob­servations was made at the South Dining Hall. Note that this observation has been summarized to remove what seemed to be suspiciously off­color details. Much to a stu­dent's dismay, he was only al­lowed to remove two pieces of fruit from the cafeteria instead of three. The third piece of fruit was confiscated by a cafe­teria employee. The official was also rudely kicked off South quad during a pickup baseball game. 
MDeep Throat" has expressed great confidence in Fred. One of the official's messages closes with "Fred, I believe you, I trust you, and I know you can do something about this." There are rumors of a possible plot by MDeep Throat" to place Fred in power as President, although details are uncertain. 
Among the really bizarre calls, Fred and Rob have re­ceived interesting propositions. Supposedly the line is helping them to gain dates, as well as hear from admirers. One fe­male in the office uses the line to make comments about Rob's physique. 
As a final note, the student government seems pleased with the response to the line. And what about the origin of the name? Well, apparently Fred never knew about the name un­til it was installed, and there­fore he had no way of knowing what would hit him. 
Saint Mary's Popular Culture Club prompts music, film, and chats 
JENNIFER KACARAB "Dick Tracy" will be presented understand the various accent writer on November 2 at 7:00pm in relations of power among the Little Theater, Moreau Hall. people. You must understand Saint Mary's College has Cutrofello stressed that the surface symbolism and then stablished the Popular Culture club is willing to take sugges­probe beneath that in order to lub to analyze and critique tions from anyone and is open understand the ideology behind erica's popular culture. The to any member of the Notre the symbol," he said. asic purpose of the club is to Dame community, as well as the Cutrofello explained that the 
ring faculty and students to­South Bend community. "The idea for the club started when ether on an informal basis in response from students has he and Pat White, associate 
rder to discuss how popular been good; they have been dean of faculty at Saint Mary's, ulture affects everyone. eager to see what the Popular went to the Popular Culture Cutrofello, one of the Culture Club is all about," said Association's convention in 
ounders of the club, will be Cutrofello. In the future, the Toronto, Ontario, in March of laying at Club Tuesday on club hopes to hold meetings in 1990. Papers presented at the eptember 25 at 9:00 pm. His the dormitories in order to al­convention dealt with such erformance will feature Bob low more students to become topics as "Sexual Imagery in ylan songs and afterwards, he involved with the club. A the Market Place," "Vietnam 
"ll give a light critique of lecture series is also in the Image," and "The Value of ylan's music. planning stages. Convenience in America: From The Popular Culture Club is "There is a difference be­Sex to Violence. II 
ponsoring a film series at Saint tween talking popular culture Cutrofello and White enjoyed ary's, with informal group and actually doing popular cul­themselves so much that they iscussions to follow each ture criticism. Personally, I be­decided to hold a faculty meet­ovie. The next movie in the lieye you have to have a little ing in order to determine how 
dm series, "Pretty Woman," Marxist in you in order to really many would be interested in ·n be presented on October 17 critique popular culture, starting a popular culture club at 6:00 pm in Carroll Hall. because you have to at Saint Mary's. 
-~-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Notices  Need GAs for AIR FORCE and TENNESSEE Jackie x4112 WANTED: One national energy  Two round-trip tickets to SEATTLE for sale-$230 each. Leaves South Bend on 1 0/20 after the Miami game and returns to SB  HELP! NEED STUD. OR GA FOR STANFORD GAME. CALL LAURIE 2822.  4 RELATIVES ONLY HAVE 3 WEEKS TO LIVE !I LET THEM SEE A NO FOOTBALL GAME BEFORE THEY GO. SELL ME 4  NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546 AFTER 6 PM.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  policy. Must be flexible, economical, and be great for tax write-oils. Efficiency is not a necessity. For more information, please contact our Washington office at 1-800-GET-CLUE.  on 1 0/27. Call Carol or Julie at x4937. I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM AND LEAVE B.O. #3770  Need Purdue Tickets call Joe or Glenn x3320 NEED 1 AIR FORCE STD. TICKET CALL PAUL 1121  AF GA'S-4 TOGETHER OR 2 + 2. CALL CHRIS X3309 NEED PURDUE GAs or STUD. WILL PAY$$$ BILLY 233-7817 NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX AND  NEED TENNESSEE TICKETS I HAVE $$$ AND STANFORD STUD TICKET. CALL ROBERT 4057 WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S FOR SIX BETTER MIAMI GA'S  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233-2342  Need Money ??? Local Book Distributor Needs Help. Flxbl Hours. Many Opportunities. Call Mr. Turner 288-1002 12-5 M-F I NEED AIR FORCE TIX STUD. OR GA'S CAN BE SEP. OR TOGETHER  HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 FOR SALE: ROUND TRIP TO CALIF. OCT. 2-OCT. 11 $223 OR BEST OFFER? 239-6611 EXT. 137.  Desperately seeking Air Force Tix-GA's and Student Call x4808 2 GA tix needed for Air Force. 277-8036 after 7 p.m. need two Purdue G.A.'s.  4 G.A'S CALL MARIA X3857 ~HELP! I NEED ONE STUDENT AIR FORCE! CHRISTIAN X1478tvV NEED TIX TO ANY GAMEl!! CALL SHARON 284-5089  PLUS$$$ ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S FOR$$$ CALL GREG 288-9075 NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY $$$$$$. CALL JOHN X 1177.  
WILL PAY ANY PRICE  Call Steve 273-9471  NEW STRIP BAR TO OPEN IN  
CALL MIKE -1731 PLEASE  THEODORE'S!!!  BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR  
Tickets  Need stud. tix to  I need AIR FORCE GA's. If you  FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD  
Lost and Found LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM HALL AND 02. GREAT PERSONAL VALUE, PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND. 271-9312  Christmas Help National firm has many openings available. $8.10 starting. Gain great business experience . Weekends and evenings available.call 271-8699 WANTED: 2 Perdue GA's Call Ellen x3842  Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Calltomx1597. NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  Purdue, Dan x1795 3 STUD MIAMI TIX BEST OFFER 271-0836 Wanted: 2 tickets for Miami Game. Face value plus picture of President Grant. 272-1981  can help me or want to become a part owner of the new bar, call DAVE AT X2201. Need PURDUE STUDENT TICKETS Call Maureen x1704. HAVE PURDUE ST.TIX #1747  GAME. CALL LAUREN 273-1380 NEED PURDUE TIX! CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN MIAMI, MIAMI, MIAMI NEED 1 STUD TIX  
LOSTIII LOST! !I LOSTIII RAY-BAN ARISTA OUTDOORSMAN GOLD FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL TO ME-GIFT FROM SOMEONE!!!!! WIL OFFER REWARD! CALL DIANA 284­5484.  need 2 GA's and 1 stud for Stanford game! Betsy 283-3829 caricature artist. call x2982 CHILD CARE AND RIDES TO PRE-SCHOOL NEEDED FOR  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at273-9367.  NEEDED -2 PURDUE GAs Call Tom at x1513 WANTED: ONE PENN STATE STUD. TICKET. BEST OFFER. CALL AMANDA X4953  ASK FOR LANCE NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S STU. TIX FOR SALE Dave X3024 Look! all I want is one Stanford stu. (that's it) Call Gerry x1832  X2481 PAUL ##################### NEED MANY PENN ST. STUD TIX PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 #####################  
FOUND: MALE WATCH AT MICHIGAN TAILGAITER g/16 CALL JOSE 283-1985  CHARMING 5 YR. OLD GIRL. NEED TO OWN CAR AND LIKE CATS. $3.00 2HR. #287-3315.  BIG DOLLARS! NEED STUDENT TIX ALL HOME GAMES  SELL US YOUR STANFORD TICKETSII (PLEASE) We're desperately searching for 2 student tickets. If you have any,  need Air Force student tixl Please call Dianne at x4807  N.D ALUM HAS 2 PURDUE GA TIX. WILL TRADE FOR 2 STANFORD OR PENN STAT TIX.  
LOST: GOLD BRACELET  CALL 1597  call Julie x3851 or Michelle x3879.  H E L P !I!  CALL JOHN 201-764-6313.  
WED. 9-19 Please Return if found II X2728  For Rent BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian C. at x3546 or x3540  have 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET for sale Jackie x4112  NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS PAYING TOP $$$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL ALLISON 2732.  
LOST: BLUE KODAK 11 0 CAMERA IN BLACK&BROWN CASE WITH EXTRA FILM,ETC. - 2 Bedroom Apt w/ Full Bath + Kitchen  WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE AT2344  Have 2 Purdue GA Need 2 Stan GA TRADE? Rob 2463  CALL JEFF@277-3998 need two Stanford GA's BAD!!  $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX HEY! I NEED 2 MIAMI TIXS!  
IN LAFORTUNE SAT. 9/15. I HAVE SOME REALLY SPECIAL PICTURES ON THE FILM THAT'S IN THE CAMERA. PLEASE CALL AMY 284-4322 IF FOUND. THANKS!  GREAT Location + Price Call x3077 Studio Appt. Turtle Creek 1 0 min walking from campus. Available Nov. 1st272-1981  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S WILL EVEN PAY $. CALL FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay$$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1055  Desperately Seeking 5 AIR FORCE Ga's ... will buy as many as you have to sell. Please call me! Angela @2496 Need one Purdue GA  Parents will take back tuition if I don't come throughllllllll Call Mike X3506 Need 2 Miami GAs Big $$ Angie x2110  JASON X2099 Needed: 2 Air F. Stud.; 4 Air F. GA; 7 Penn St. Stud. Will trade Purdue Stud. or pay. Colleen 272-5939  
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOSTI LOST! SET OF KEYS WITH THREE  MALE ROOMATE NEEDED FOR 2 BDRM APT AT TURTLE CREEK  DESPERATELY need PURDUE GAs!!! Paul x1626  Please Call Bill x4115 Need:  PENN STATE TIX; need 3 GA's and 2 studs; call Money x3374  2 Airforce GAs needed;  
DORM KEYS AND THREE OTHERS. DORM KEYS HAVE 1013 ON IT AND THERE IS A BOTTLE OPENER KEY CHAIN. IF FOUND, CALL MIKE AT 1788.  277-8976 For Sale  Need 2 Miami Tickets Students or GAs Will Pay Top Dollar Call Eric x2095  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364  1 Miami stud for sale x284-4109 Wanted 4 GA Tix NO vs. MIAMI  
FOUND ON WHITE FIELD: KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS. CALL LORI AT 284-5017 TO IDENTIFYI!I I I anyone lost a key on one of the buses for the Junior Cruise, it can be identified and picked up in the  REPOSSESSED VA &HUD HOMES available from govemmen for Sl without cretlt check. You repair. Also tax delinquent foreclosures. Cdl (805)682-7555 Ext. H-3269 for repo lkt yow area.  NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL SAM AT (201 )334-3804. MIAMI TIX WANTED $ STUDENT OR GA $ (201) 334-3804  Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 need "4" GA'S for the PURDUE GAME. I will pay big $$$$. Call Jeannie 284-4073. We have Student Tickets to all Home games ! ! !  NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? ME TOO 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami fans that need humbling. 272-8954 Amy  1-800-243-4153 Ext. 2387 -Mickey need Penn St stud tix Melinda x4852 REALLY NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SI IF YOU CAN HELP ME, CALL BRIAN X2153  
offfice from 3-5 on Mon-Thurs.  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO  Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or  ### Call  NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752­ need MIAMI TIX  
I ost my keys!! 277-8379  SEMESTERS $110, ONE  GA Please call Matt X3024  Cristina or JJ @ x4842  5314.  -Chris 234-8891  
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO  
LOST: 14k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football  SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80.  For Sale: Tickets for all home games  need 2 Purdue GAs x1640 Pete  WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707.  NEED 2-3 STANFORD GA'S. $$$JIM 271-1703.  
field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please call Cara at x384 7.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959.  call Joe X1688 Monday -Thursday 3:30-6:30 PM  
1980 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  NEED PURDUE TICKETS  
LOST: class ring I class of '91 blue stone 277-9366  VERY GOOD CONDITION AUTOMATIC, AM/FM STEREO CASSETTE, POWER BRAKES/STEERING. $895. 289­ WANTED: 2 GAs to the STANFORD game. Call E.J. at 272-4715.  NEED 2 GA & 2 STU. TIX FOR PURDUE. CALL CHRIS X1 067  CALL ALEX X1068 New York Attorney needs Stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$  CALL JOHN 258-0809  
1440.  Need 2 Purdue GA  Call Paul at201-334-3804 or  WANTED PAIR OR SINGLE  
Miami GAs and Studs  Nancy at 277-2942.  MIAMI GA X1581 TOM  
Wanted  Mike 273-1537  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE!!  ***I NEED TICKETS!"**  
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME.  AIR FORCE TIX!!  GIVE ME A BREAK! I NEED 6 STANFORD AND  CALL KATHLEEN AT 4081  I would be forever in your debt for 3 Air Force student  
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340.  NEEDED 7 GAISTUD  8 PENN ST. GA's  NEED STANFORD GA'S  ticketsII Call John at x 1802  
MONEY IS NO PROBLEM  CALL TIM #2704  CALL ERIK AT X2088.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED! I  CALL JULIE X4975  HAVE 1 MIAMI  
During home FB games  HELP  GA.DESPERATELY SEEKING (2)  
Call Steve at X1037.  need 1 Miami stud.  *I need 1 (one) PURDUE GA.*  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  STANFORD GAs. WILLING TO  
TREK 412 Bicycle very good  x1640 Pete  #2185 DAN  NEED STANFORD and MIAMI  DEAL. MIKE X3526  
cond. 277-7262  TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S  
WILL TRADE MIAMI GA FOR 1  Need 1 Stanford GA, Stan x2742  Call Mary at3816.  
- WE NEED STANFORD TICKETS!!!! If you can help us out, call Michelle x3879 or Julie x3851. WANTED: Subway needs delivery driver/counterperson for Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Uniforms, meals, and hourly bonus.  TREK MOUNTAIN BIKE New hard packs, tires, $250, (like new, retail $400) Call Jason, (Hurry, I'M BROKE) 233-4065  MIAMI STUD AND 1 AF STUD 271-8749 NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD GAs AND 1 STUD WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI STUD 271-8749  WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S + $$$·CHRIS 277-9363 $$$ PURDUE STUDENT TICKET NEEDED. CALL DAN x4110 $$$ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'SIII CALL KERRY x1852.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need Student Tix for Stanford big$$$$$ Mason X2787 Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force big bucks paid call Mason at 2787  NEED PURDUE GA'S AND PENN ST. STUDS CALL KEVIN @2235 HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027  
Appplicants must have dependable transportation. Call  OVERSEAS AND  HELP! MY PARENTS ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM  $$$$$  
277-7744 for interview appointment.  ~RUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT Many positions. Work Month-H0111 Motth.  MONTANA AND NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL RENZV AT X1945  NEED 4 G.A.s FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME !II! PLEASE CALL NANCY AT 273-2024.  WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687  NEED 6 PURDUE GA'S CALL KATIE x3771 x3791 $$$$$  
WANTED: Subway needs night closers for S.R. 23 store. Uniforms, meals, and hourly  Cal (lOS) 612-7SSS Ext. 5-1912  Need Miami GA's or Married Pairs  We need: FIVE FIVE FIVE FIVE  $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ FOR STANFORD, CALL  NEED PURDUE GA'SI CALL ERIN X3425  
bonus. Call277-7744 for interview appointment.  Good$$$$ Mark 232-4589  Purdue Stud Tix Call Barb 4852 or Lisa 4868  COLLECT (416) 851-0817, AFTER 8:00 P.M., RENO.  see CLASS/page 12  


-~----~~---~------­
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
IM•UifllEADERS 

TENNIS Women AMERICAN LEAGUE 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes WITA Money Leader• East Division 
in parentheses, records through Sept. 22, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through1 Martina Navratllova, $1,027,030. 2, Steffi Graf, w L 
Pet GB L10 Streak one point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's rankings:$e00,070. 3, Monica Sales, $875,474. 4, Gabriela Toronto 84 70 .545 z-8-2 Won2 
Record Pts Pvs 
Sabatini, $848,533. 5, Jana Novotna, $513,482. 6, Boston 82 71 .536 1 1/2 2·8 Lost 2 1. Notre Dame (43) t ,478 1
2·0·0 

Zlna Garrison, $485,018. 7, Helena Sukova, Detroit 74 79 .484 91/2 5-5 Wont 
2. Florida St. ( 1 1 ) 3-0-0 1 ,397 2 $401.684. 8, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, $398,299. Cleveland 73 81 .474 11 z-8-2 Lost t 3. Auburn (3) 1 ,364 3
2-0-0 9, Natalia Zvereva, $393,363. 10, Katerlna Baltimore 71 81 .467 12 Won6 4-0-0 1,261 4
6·4 4. Brigham Young (3) Maleeva, $282,163. Milwaukee 69 84 .451 14 112 1-9 Lost7 
5. Tennessee 3·0· t 1,168 6Men New York 62 92 .403 22 Lost 1 6. Michigan t-t-0 1,156 7
2-8 ATP Tour Money Leader• 
7. Virginia 4-0-0 1,1 06 to 1, Stefan Edbarg, $1,137,176. 2, Boris Becker, Weal Dlvlalon 
8. Nebraska 3-0-0 1 ,082 8 
$905,902. 3, Ivan Lendl, $797,802. 4, Andre w L Pet GB L10 Streak 3-0-0 t ,042 1 t 
9. Oklahoma 
Agassl, $765,212. 5, Andres Gomez, $764,055. 6, 
Oakland 97 56 .634 z-6-4 Lost2 10.Miami,Fia. t-t-0 1,034 9 Pete Sampras, $732,697. 7, Goran lvanlsevic, Chicago 69 64 .582 6 z-8-2 Won3 
tt.TexasA&M 3-0-0 916 12 $593,325. 8, Emilio Sanchez, $529,639. 9, Texas 60 73 .523 17 z-5-5 Lost3 12. Washington 3-0-0 21
787 Thomas Muster, $490,447. 10, Brad Gilbart, California 76 77 .497 21 z-4-6 Wont 
t 3. Houston 2-0-0 696 14 $473,853. Seattle 74 80 .481 23112 4-6 Lost 3 2-1-0 621
t 4. Illinois t 5 Kansas City 72 81 .471 25 5-5 Won3 
15. Ohio St. 2-0-0 595 t 6 AUTO RACING Minnesota 70 84 .455 27112 z-5-5 Won2 t 6. Arizona 3-0-0 582 t 8 NASCAR 
t 7. Florida 3·0·0 525 19 Money NATIONAL LEAGUE 
18. Southern Cal 2·1-0 518 5 1, Dale Earnhardt, $1,569,930. 2, Mark Martin, East Dlvlafon 
19. Clemson 3-1-0 510 17 
$767,695. 3, Rusty Wallace, $746,444. 4, Bill w L Pet GB L10 Streak 
20. Colorado 2·t-t 493 20 Elliott, $713,965. 5, Geoff Bodine, $896,785. 6, Pittsburgh 88 65 .575 4-6 Wont 
21. Arizona St. 2-0-0 281 23 Kyle Petty, $813,565. 7, Ken Schrader, $609,110. New York 85 68 .556 3 3-7 Lost t 
22. Michigan St. 0-1-t 212 24 8, Derrlke Cope, $480,530. 9, Davey Allison, Montreal 81 72 .529 7 z-6·4 Lost4 
23. Arkansas 1-1-0 155 t 3 $452,655. t 0, Ricky Rudd, $415,332. Chicago 73 80 .477 15 5-5 Wont 
24. Fresno St. 4-0-0 t 06 
CART Philadelphia 73 80 .477 15 z-8-2 Won4 25. South Carolina 3-0-0 64 Money St. Louis 68 85 .444 20 z-4-6 Lost t 
Other receiving votes: Texas 60, Georgia Tech 51, Wyoming 44, Indiana 33, Mississippi 29, Georgiat, Arie Luyendyk, $1,566,742. 2, AI Unser, Jr., 
21, Pittsburgh 19, Syracuse14, Loulsvllle12, Iowa 11, Maryland 10, Oregon 10, Stanford 7, LSU 4. $1,318,441. 3, Bobby Rahal, $1,176,616. 4, West Dlvlalon 
Penn St. 4, Toledo 2. Emerson Flttlpaldi, $1,131,442. 5, Michael Andrettl, w L Pet GB L10 Streak $912,255. 6, Rick Mears, $867,752. 7, Mario Cincinnati 87 66 .569 6-4 Won4 Andrettl. $773,779. 6, Danny Sullivan, $757,003. 9, Los Angeles 83 71 .539 4 1/2 z-7-3 Won1 Eddie Cheever, $866,656. 10, A.J. Foyt, Jr., San Francisco 79 75 .513 8112 4-6 Won2 $550,744. San Diego 71 83 .461 16112 z-4-6 Lost6 NFL STANDINGS Houston 70 84 .455 17112 z-5-5 Lost 3 BOWLING Atlanta 62 91 .405 25 z-4-6 Won2 Men z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN CONFERENCEt, Amleto Monacelli, $174,625. 2, Chris Warren, w L T Pet. PF PA$172,275. 3, Ron Palombi. Jr., $137,920. 4, Brian AMERICAN LEAGUE EastVoss, $130,280. 5, Jim Pencak, $129.850. 6, Monday's Games Buffalo 2 1 0 .667 63 47Parker Bohn Ill, $ t 20,215. 7, Robart Lawrence, Baltimore 6, New York 3, 1 0 Innings Miami 2 1 0 .667 60 51 $ t 08,390. 8, Dave Ferraro, $ t 05,400. 9, Tony Kansas City 10, Oakland 3 New England 1 2 0 .333 47 82Westlake, $100,973. tO, Dave Husted, $96,105. Toronto 9, Milwaukee 5 N.Y. Jets 1 2 0 .333 51 76 
California 3, Texas 2 Indianapolis 0 3 0 .000 34 66 Only games scheduled 

Games

TRANSACTIONS Tuesday's 
Central Baltimore (Telford 3-2) at New York (Eiland 0·1), 7:30p.m. 
Cincinnati 3 0 0 1.000 87 43 
Cleveland (Swindell 11·8) at Boston (G.Harris t 3-8). 7:35 p.m. 
Cleveland 1 2 0 .333 48 51 
BASEBALL Seattle (Swift 6-4) at Detroit (Terrell 5-4), 7:35p.m. 
Houston 1 2 0 .333 60 77 
American League Minnesota (Guthrie 6·8) at Chicago (McDowell 13-8), 8:05p.m. 
Pittsburgh 1 2 0 .333 26 42 
CLEVELAND INDIANS--Claimed Alex Sanchez, Oakland (Stewart 21 -tO) at Kansas City (Appier 1 t-7), 8:35p.m. pitcher. on waivers off the Toronto Blue Jays' roster Toronto (Black 12-10) at Milwaukee (Krueger 5-8), 8:35p.m. 
West 

to complete the Sapl t 7 trade for Bud Black, California (Lewis 0·0) at Texas (B.Witt 17-9), 8:35p.m. 
LA Raiders 3 0 0 1.000 51 25 
pitcher Wednesday's Games Denver 2 1 0 .667 67 68 
Senior Boaeball League Baltimore at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Kansas City 2 1 0 .667 64 48 SUN CITY RAYS-Named Fred Stanley director Cleveland at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
San Diego 1 2 0 .333 54 52 of player personnel. Signed Rollle Fingers, Lerrln Seattle at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. 
Seattle 0 3 0 .000 44 68 
LaGrow. J1m Umbarger. Bo Mclaughlin, Jack Minnesota at Chicago, 8:05p.m. 
Lazorko, Bob Owch1nko and Ron Davis, pitchers; Oakland at Kansas City, 8:35p.m. 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Bill Hayes. catcher; Pete LaCock. first baseman; Toronto at Milwaukee, 8:35p.m. 
w L T Pet. PF PA 
Guy Sularz, and Bert Campanens, shortstops; Alan California at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
East 

Bannister. Infielder, and Joe Charboneau. 
N.Y. Giants 3 0 0 1.000 75 30 
outl1elder. NATIONAL LEAGUE Washington 2 1 0 .667 63 41 FOOTBALL Monday's Games Dallas 1 2 0 .333 39 61 
National Football League Chicago 4, New York 3 Philadelphia 1 2 0 .333 68 71 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Activated Vann Philadelphia 3, Montreal 0 Phoenix 1 2 0 .333 30 80 
McElroy, safety. Placed Garry Lewis, cornerback, Los Angeles 7, Houston 5, 11 innings 
on injured reserve. San Francisco 3, San Diego 1 
Central 

World Leegue of Amercan Football Only games scheduled 
Chicago 3 0 0 1.000 67 29 WLAF-Named Joe Collier competition Tuesday'• Games 
Tampa Bay 2 1 0 .667 75 76 consultant Atlanta (Giavine 9-1 1) at Cincinnati (Charlton 12·7), 7:35p.m. 
Detroit 1 2 0 .333 62 75 Canadien Football League New York (Fernandez 9-14) at Montreal (Nabholz 6-0), 7:35p.m. 
Green Bay 1 2 0 .333 52 72 HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Fired AI Bruno, head St. Louis (Magrane 9-16) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 8·9), 7:35p.m. 
Minnesota 1 2 0 .333 69 46 
coach. Named David Beckman Interim head Chicago (S.WIIson 4-8) at Pittsburgh (Drabek 20·6), 7:35p.m. .. coach. Los Angeles (R.Martinez 19-6) at Houston (Scott 9-13), 8:35p.m. 
Wast 

HOCKEY San Diego (Benes 10-9) at San Francisco (Reuschel2·6), 10:35 p.m. 
San Francisco 3 0 0 1.000 58 38 
National Hockey League Wednesday's Games Atlanta 1 2 0 .333 74 67 NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Darren San Diego at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. 
LA Rams 1 2 0 .333 80 77 Turcotte, center Atlanta at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. 
New Orleans 1 2 0 .333 43 52 
American Hockey League New York at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. CAPITAL DISTRICT ISLANDERS-Named St. Louis at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
Sunday's Games 
Andrew McGowan director of public relations. Chicago at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. 
Washington 19, Dallas 15 COLLEGE Los Angeles at Houston, 8:35p.m. 
Houston 24, Indianapolis t 0 BENTLEY-Named Don Moorhead goff coach. 
Kansas City t 7, Green Bay 3 SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE-Named Joe New York Giants 20, Miami 3 Falcon assistant track and cross country coach. LEAGUE LEADERS 
Chicago 19, Minnesota 16 Cincinnati 4t, New England 7 AMERICAN LEAGUE New Orleans 28, Phoenix 7 
I 
MAGIC NUMBERS 
Based on 415 at Bats San Diego 24, Cleveland 14 
San Francisco t 9, Atlanta 13 AL Eaat G AB R H Pet. 
Philadelphia 27, Los Angeles Rams 21Brett KC 137 530 81 175 .330
()'1 

No Los Angeles Raiders 20, Pittsburgh 3 
Plmero Tax 145 562 70 181 .322Toronto 9 9 RHdsn Oak 130 466 112 149 .320 Denver 34, Seattle 31, OT Trammell Oat 142 548 70 169 .308 Tampa Bay 23, Detroit 20 ALW..t 
Boggs Bsn 148 593 85 181 .305 Monday'a Game 
()'1 

No CJames Cia 134 501 60 152 .303 Buffalo 30, New York Jets 7 Oakland 
9 1 EMartinez Sea 141 479 70 145 .303 Sunday, Sept. 30 Puckett Min 140 526 82 159 .302 Dallas at New York Giants, 1 p.m. NL E811 
Burks Bsn 143 551 84 166 .301 Denver at Buffalo, 1 p.m . 
()'1 

No DParker Mil 150 581 70 175 .301 Green Bay at Detroit, t p.m.
Pittsburgh 9 
7 Indianapolis at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
Miami at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. NL Weal 
Home Rune Tampa Bay at Minnesota, t p.m.
()'1 

No Chicago at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. 
Fielder. Detroit, 48; McGwlre, Oakland, 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Toronto, 34; Grubar, Cincinnati 9 5 Toronto, 30; Deer, Milwaukee, 27; RHenderson, Oakland, 27; BJackson, Kansas City, 26. Cleveland at Kansas City, 4 p.m. Houston at San Diego, 4 p.m. NOTE: The magic numbar Is derived by adding 
New York Jets at New England, 4 p.m. one to the numbar of remaining games and 
Runs Batted In Washington at Phoenix, 8 p.m. subtracting the numbar of games ahead In the loss 
Fielder, Detroit, 126; Grubar, Toronto, 113; McGwire, Oakland, 107; JCanseco, Oakland, 95; OPEN DATE: Atlanta, L. A. Rams, New Orleans, San Francisco column from the second-place team. 
DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Sierra, Texas, 91; Maldonado, Cleveland, 90; Trammell, Detroit, 89. Monday, Oct. 1 Cincinnati at Saattle, 9 p.m. 
SPORTS CALENDAR Pitching (12 Decisions) 
Weich, Oakland, 25-6, .806; BJones, Chicago, 11-3, .786; Clemens, Boston, 20·6, .769; Stieb, Toronto, 18·6, .750; King, Chicago, 11-4, .733; RRobinson, Milwaukee, 11-4, .733; Wells, Toronto, tt-NFL BOXES 
NCAA 1-AA TOP 20 
4, .733; CFinley, California, 18-8, .692. 
Bills 30, Jets 7
Buffalo 7 13 3 7--30 ----------------.-----------------:--:-:--:-:-::::-, Y. Jets 7 0 0 0-7 
First Quarter MISSION, Kan. (AP)-The top 20 teams In the NYJ-Baxter 1 run (Leahy kick), 7:15. NCAA Division 1-AA football poll with first-place But-Davis 1 run (Norwood kick), t t :04. votes In parentheses, records through Sept. 22, 
Second Quarter total points and last week's ranking: Buf-Rolle 2 pass from Kelly (Norwood kick), 
4:48. 

Record Pts Pvs Buf-FG Norwood 48, 11 :55. 1. Middle Tenn. (4) 4-0·0 80 2 Buf-FG Norwood 42, 15:00. 2. Montana 3-0-0 74 
3 Third Quarter 3. New Hampshire 3·0-0 72 4 Buf-FG Norwood 27, 10:10. 
4. Furman 3-t-0 71 1 Fourth Quarter 5. Grambling St. 3-0·0 64 5 Buf--McKeller 6 pass from Kelly (Norwood kick), 6. SW Missouri St. 3-1-0 60 6 ... 8:26. 7. E. Kentucky 3·0·0 56 B A---£9,927. 
8. Libarty 4-0-0 52 9 9. Citadel 2-1-0 48 11 Buf NYJ 10. Nevada 3-0-0 43 13 First downs 23 17 
t t . Rhode Island 3-0·0 37 12 Rushes-yards 35-292 29-124 (tie) Youngstown St. 4-0·0 37 15 Passing 159 125 t 3. North Texas 2-1-0 35 7 Return Yards 5 0 14. Boise St. 3-t-0 28 17 
Comp-Att-lnt 16-26-1 15·30-0 15. NE Louisiana 2-1-0 23 
tt8 Sacked· Yards Lost 2·15 3-28 
16. Texas Southern 4-0-0 16 Punts 4-33 6-43 
17. Massachusetts 1-0-1 10 118 Fumbles-Lost 0-0 
3·2 18. N.lowa 2-2-0 9 Penalties-Yards 7-66 7-55 
19. W. Kentucky 2·1·0 6 14 Time of Possession 30:49 29:11 20. E. Washington 2-1-0 4 10 INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
(tie) William & Mary 2-t-0 4 RUSHIN~uffalo, T.Thomas 18-214, Mueller 
8-42, Davis 7-31, Smith t-3, Kelly 1·2. New York, 
Baxter 7-36, B.Thomas 6·31, Hector 10·24, McNeil 
3-21, O'Brien 3·12. 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990
The Observer
page 12 

WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S 
I NEED PURDUE TIX 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING 

AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2 
6GA'sl 
BAHAMAS: 45ft Captained

Class PERSONALS
MIAMI GA'S. CALL BERT AT
JIM #4274 

Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven
WORK AT 1-800-437-9318. 
GET TOP$ 
continued from page 1 0 
BOSS NEEDS MIAMI GA's Call Diane -273-9469 
NEED TENNESSEE -NO TICKETS WILL SWAP PENN STATE FOR THEM. CALL 216­877-6042. 
FATHER GRADUATED NO 48 YEARS AGO AND HAS NEVER BEEN BACK. NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL COLLECT 
(404) 640-0464 BOB LYNCH. 
Have SR. nx 
3 AF, 2 Penn 1 Stan, 1 Purdue Best Offer X4283 
4 Miami GA's together lor sale best mler by 1 0/5 call 273-1364 
T ix needed: 4 Purdue GAs Stanford Students Miami Students call X1772 
HAVE 2 PURDUE TICKETS best offer X 1167 
HELPIHELPIHELP!HELP!HELP! Need 2 GAs lor Stanford. Call x1572 and leave message PLEASE IIIII 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S JOHN 272-7849 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR FORCE AND 2 MIAMI GA'S 
HAVE TO IMPRESS 
GIRLFRIENDS PARENTS 
MONEY IS NO PROBLEM !Ill! CALL JOE X1165 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
##### 
I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'SI CALL THERESA@ X36171 ##### 

HELP! MY IRISH FATHER AND TWO BROTHERS WANT NO/STANFORD NEED 2 TIX. PURDUE G.A.'S (I NEED 3) CALL CALL 412-339-0736. 284-5461 A.S.AP.III NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX. CALL KATE AT X4045. 
F ::>A SALE UP TO 7 STUD. TIX 
FOR MIAMI-ALL SEATED NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!IIII!!I TOGETHER CALL DAVID X3952 JUST WON THE LOTTERY­
NEED PURD. STUD. TICK?. I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! 234 -5840 JOHN PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE NEED GA TIX FOR PURDUE! CALL SHARON 284-5089 CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 


ATTENTION THRILL SEEKERS: VISIT UNIVERSAL STUDIOS, KNOTT'S BERRY FARM, & SIX FLAG'S MAGIC MOUNTAIN! CALL 
239-7308. 

L IMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR 
PURDUE VS NO GAME AT JAMISON INN. CALL 277-9682 FOR RESERVATIONS. 
STEPAN CENTER COURT TIME scheduling meeting will be held THURSDAY, SEPT. 27 in Montgomery Theatre, 
LaFortune. All groups wanting to reserve court time must attend this 
meeting. Call Student 
Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. $448.00 each Including Accommodation and Meals. SPRING BREAK HOTLINE! 1-800-999-7245 1 OAM-8P 
Does fatality frighten you? You love her not, omnicient eyes. My prophecy will be fulfilled: the petals will die on Stanford weekend. Do you have the endurance for perfection? -c.T. 
CONGRATULATIONS 
TO THE 

OFF-CAMPUS PLAGUE on their first victory against Walsh. the keg is definitely on KIENSTRAIIII 
FOR YOUR 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 1-800-733-8499 
ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL 
see CLASS/page 14 

Here's your opportunity to clean up your act! 
Isn't it time you co~idered doing away with the low resolution of the Laserwriter1 No longer do you have to settle for printing materials in which the type is jagged and difficult to read at small point sizes. Using our Unotronic 200P your fonts and graphics are accurately spaced and registered, blacks are solid, whites are clean and tones are crisp. 
What's more all jobs are guaranteed to be completed in twenty-four hours or less or we'll output it for free. And we offer pick-up and delivery to any administrative or academic office on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus. 
Best of all, we offer high quality outputting at extremely reasonable prices. In fact our prices are some of the lowest in the nation. Special discounts are also available for large jobs. 
Our staff is familiar with most major desktop publishing and graphics programs for the Macintosh. And we have a large library of Adobe Typefaces. 
Isn't it time you did away with the 300 dpi resolution of the I.aserwriter and switched to the 1270 dpi resolution of our Unotronic Imagesetter? 
For more information call Observer Typesetting at 239-7471. 
ffiHffiB observer typesetting ffiHffiB 
314 LaFortune Student Center 
239-7471 
If you were one of the many crazy but enthusiastic people who signed up on Activities Night to work for 
The Observer 
Then we want YOU! 
If you are still interested in working for the only publication to cover both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on a daily basis, then come to an informational meeting on 
Wednesday, September 26 at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, First Floor LaFortune 
And if you didn't come see us on Activities Night but would still like to work with us, come to the meeting. More crazy people are always welcome. 
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
The Observer 
page 13 

Notre Dame stumbles in Rl volleyball tourney 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
Entering the Rhode Island Tournament last weekend, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team needed a boost in order to catapult itself into the toughest part of its schedule. Unfortunately for the Irish (5-5). the weekend did not prove to be the springboard coach Art Lambert had hoped it would be, as the team came away with only one win. The weekend did not start off well for the Irish. Facing Sherbrooke, a team from Canada, the Irish found trouble. After losing the first game 15-9, Notre Dame staged a short-Jived comeback, taking the second game 16-14. However, the Irish were put away quickly in the third and fourth games, 15-10, 15-13 by the Vert & Or. On a bittersweet note, the loss was not added to the Irish record due to the international standing of the match. Notre Dame looked better in the second match of the day against Syracuse, which posted a 28-9 record in 1989. The Orangemen (9-7) went down easily in the first game, 15-10, but stormed back to take games two and three, 15-8, 15-9. Notre Dame rolled in the 
fourth game, 15-6, and fought for the fifth game, winning 16-14. The match was highlighted by 17 kills by sophomore hitter Jessica Fiebelkorn and the 50 assists 
set  by  freshman  Janelle  
Karlan.  
. In  the  weekend's  closer  

against the University of Rhode Island, Notre Dame came out strong, but fizzled. The Irish put URI away in the first game, 15-10. Rhode Island took the second game, 15-11. Notre Dame came back in the third, 15-13, but then the host Rams (6-4) took control, winning the fourth and fifth sets, 15-9, 15-10. "We didn't do enough," said Coach Art Lambert, who was hardly pleased with the team's performance this weekend. "We have to im­prove our blocking, which did not exist." Notre Dame will host Penn State and Miami (Ohio) on Friday and Saturday, respec­tively. During the weekend of October 5, the Irish host the Golden Dome Classic, which includes such strong teams as Hofstra, Oklahoma, and Louisiana State. "We are beginning the teeth of our schedule," said Lambert. "The teams in our early season were only . 500 
teams. We've got some seri­ous thinking to do, and some 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Join guest Chris Zorich and hosts Hugh McGowan and Vic Lombardi for WVFI SportsTalk tonight from 8-9 p.m. on ypur 6400 AM dial. Call in and talk to the Outland Trophy candidate at 9-239-6400. 
NVA Domer Run winners in the three-mile race: Janice Heis, Lisa Pagura, Bill Borgos, Kevin Yaley and Mike Broch. In the six-mile race: Suzanne VonLuhrte, Catherine O'Hearn, Brian Polock, Tim Terwey, Mike Kenahan and John Affleck­Graves. 
Stepan Center Basketball court time scheduli~g meeting will be held Thursday, Sept. 27th, 6-7 p.m. m Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All hall athletic commissioners and group representatives requiring court time must attend this meeting. Please RSVP for the meeting by Tuesday, Sept. 25th to Student Activities, 239-7308. 
All varsity rowers meet in 104 O'Shag on Wednesday, Sept. 26th at 7:30 p.m. to organize for Pittsburgh. 
St. Mary's College Varsity Track meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 26th at 7:30 p.m. in Angela Athletic Faeility for new and returning athletes. 
The Hapkldo Club will meet Tuesday and Thursday at 
8:30 p.m. rm. 219 Rockne Gym. Learn self-defense. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
The ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club is having its organizational meeting Thursday. Sept. 27th at 7 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. All interested please attend. Questions call: Kristin at 3572, Jackie at 3821 and Debbie at 284-4379. 
ND/SMC Field Hockey will practice Tuesday and Thursday from 4-6 p.m. on the astroturf. For more infor­mation, call Suzanne at x4174. 
~ .. z ~ 
.; 
(0150N

228 W Edison Mishawak•. IN 46545 Hours 10 AM · 7 PM M Sat. 255·3151 
NATURAL  SNACK  FOODS  
-FRUIT  & NUT  MIXES  ORGANIC  
-CHIPS  and  JUICES  PRODUCE  
FAST  HEALTHY  ENTREES  
-BURRITOES  -POT  PIES  NATURAL  
-PIZZA  -SOUPS  COSMETICS  

Think Globally, Buy Naturally. 
Men 
continued from page 16 
"They (MSU) took advantage 
of a mistake and made it stand 
up," said Petrucelli. "It's tough 
to win when you don't score 
any goals." 
Notre Dame's frustration be­
came apparent when Head 
Coach Mike Berticelli and 
Petrucelli were both given red 
cards for arguing with the ref­
eree at the 85-minute mark, 
forcing them to leave the game. 
Assistant Coach John 
Stollmeyer was left to coach the 
remaining five minutes. 
The Irish then traveled to 
Milwaukee, Wis., to face the 
Marquette Warriors Sunday 
afternoon, hoping to erase 
some of the bad luck that had 
plagued the team ever since it 
shelled Valparaiso over a week 
ago. 

That good-luck leprechaun 
must have been exhausted 
after helping the Irish football 
team past Michigan State, 
because he certainly didn't 
follow the soccer team from 
East Lansing, Mich., to 
Milwaukee. 
The Irish, starting freshman 
Matt Fitz in goal after he re­
placed Peter Gulli in the second 
half of the MSU game, played 
well in the first half against the 
Women 
continued from page 16 
1:04 left in the game, as her shot deflected off a Spartan defender and into the opposite corner of the net, well beyond the reach of the Michigan State goalie who had fallen and could not get up. 
"When Tasha scored her goal, we were really at that point where we'd had so many chances that everybody on the field felt like we were going to get one sooner or later," noted Petrucelli. "Michigan State is probably the best Division I team that a Notre Dame team has ever beaten. This was really a great victory for our program, and the kids are excited about it. 
"If you look at the history of this program, Notre Dame lost to Michigan State 4-0 last year. But this year, we really played well and deserved to win that game." 
Key to the Notre Dame win, aside from the entire defensive unit, were Strawbridge and Roemer. In her last three games, Strawbridge has scored five goals, including a crucial tally against Saint Joseph's and the game-winner against Michigan State. Roemer, meanwhile, has provided a tremendous spark off of the bench. 
"I think we have to recognize that since her injury, Tasha Strawbridge has really come on," reflected Petrucelli. "It has been a big difference for us the way she has come off the bench and lifted the team. 
Warriors. 
Going into half time the game was a scoreless tie, but it didn't take long after the intermission for that to change. Just 25 seconds into the second stanza, a barrage that would last until the closing minutes of the game began. 
At the 45:25 mark, the Warriors' Josh Norman took a pass from James Daneher at put it past Fitz to notch the first score for Marquette. Eight minutes later, Jay Spatzek got into the act, scoring the first of his two unassisted goals after 
53:54 had passed in the game, to make the score 2-0. 
Fitz and the Irish defense were able to buckle down for over 30 minutes, hoping in vain for the ND offense to get the game back within reach, but ul­timately Marquette broke Notre Dame's lines and put the game away. 
Spatzek again beat the Irish defense and scored at the 85:02 mark to seal the fate of Notre Dame. Then, to add insult to InJury, Marquette's Matt Breines added an unassisted goal with just under three min­utes to play to make the final score 4-0 in favor of the Warriors. 
With those two losses, the Irish capped a week in which 
The same is true of Marta Roemer, but without the goal production. Marta has changed games and covered up for us when we have made mistakes." 
Also instrumental in the Irish win was forward Susie Zilvitis, who did not score, but provided a tremendous distraction for the Michigan State defense. 
"I thought that Susie Zilvitis was dangerous all weekend," stated Petrucelli. "Sometimes people do not see her contribu­tion unless she scores goals. She draws attention to herself because every time she gets the ball the other team goes into a panic. Just having Susie on the field creates scoring chances for us." 
On Sunday morning against Marquette, Notre Dame again put on a first-class perfor­mance, but could not finish the pesky club team. The Lady Warriors drew first blood early in the matchup, but the Irish quickly proceeded to tie and dominate the game. Alison Lester had the lone goal for the Irish, while Zilvitis was awarded an assist. 
"We played very well against Marquette," said Petrucelli. "I was concerned after the Michigan State game that we would come out flat. We started slow and gave up a goal early that we probably shouldn't have given up. From then on, we played very well. 
"We totally dominated every aspect of the game. We had shots hit the post four times, went one-on-one with the goalie three times without scoring and Marianne Giolitto missed a penalty kick. Still, for 
"I never said we were the number-one team," he said. 
Holtz 
Convincing people that Notre continued from page 16 Dame does not deserve to be 
No matter if it's Purdue or the top-ranked team in the 
Miami, the games get a little bit country could be Holtz's 
tougher when you're the toughest sell. The last two 
hunted. Of course, Holtz might weeks have left him with little 
take issue with that. defense for such an argument. 
they played four games in seven days. Notre Dame now has until Friday to rest, regroup, and solve several problems before it faces last year's NCAA co-champions, the Indiana Hoosiers. 
One of the most pressing of the problems for ND is the lack of offense. After scoring six times against Valparaiso, Notre Dame's offense has deserted it. The Irish have now gone three games and eight days without posting a score. 
Another question mark for the Irish is at goalkeeper. Freshman Matt Fitz replaced junior Peter Gulli after the lat­ter surrendered only one goal, on a penalty kick, in Friday's game. Fitz did not allow an­other goal against Michigan State, but was rocked for four goals in the Marquette game. 
"It was a tough stretch of games, especially since we were losing," said senior co­captain Danny Stebbins. "It's been a hard season. We've kind of been unlucky, but you make your own luck. A couple days of rest and practice, and we'll come together. 
With the way things have been going for the team, they'll take any kind of luck they can get, even if it isn't from the leprechaun. 
most of the game, we totally 
dominated." 
Once again, the Notre Dame defense saved the day, holding Marquette to less than three shots. 
"Margaret Jarc, Marianne Giolitto and Stephanie Porter have totally dominated the midfield in the last three games," said Petrucelli. "Those three players dictate how we will play. If they play well or decide that they will work hard, then everybody does the same. Michelle Lodyga has also been very solid in goal." 
Going into the weekend's ac­tion, Notre Dame was ranked tenth in the midwest region. Michigan State, on the other hand, had been ranked sixth. All things considered, recent performances by the Irish have significantly enhanced Notre Dame's push for regional prominence. 
"I think that we're really starting to play well," ex­claimed Petrucelli. "Our brand of soccer is an attractive style right now. We're playing to­gether very well, and I think that we're exciting and fun to watch. Everybody who is play­ing is playing very well and the bench is doing a great job for us. We have made great strides from the first day of preseason to now. 
"Looking at the past, I don't think that anybody can match what we've done so far. Marquette beat Notre Dame 3­0 last year. We believe that we can play with anybody and I think that we have shown that on the field." 
A look at the Irish schedule ­the toughest in the country ­shows that the last two weekends could become the rule rather than the exception. 
"I can't control the future," 
Holtz said. "I just take it." So far, he likes what he 
-

Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 


-~-~ ---------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
St. Edward's Hall Forum 
Professor David Link, Dean of Notre Dame's Law School will speak on: "How to Get Into and Succeed at a Good Law School." Wednesday, Sept. 26 St. Edward's Hall Forum 
$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA CALL BETH 288-0597 
dave glenn does dishes 
To the unbearably beautiful redhead walking up the Admin. steps last Wed. at 10 am-I saw your brilliance, and could see nothing else. Really. 
-an Admirer
·tooo~:K. 

NEED PURDUE TICKETS: 
Earn up to $1000 in one week 

2 GA'S AND 8 STUDENT TIX 
for your campus organization. 

CALL JILL AT 288-0597 
Plus a chance at 
$5000 more! 
This program works! 

need 2 GA's and 2 stud. tixs for 
No investment needed. 

Purdue. Call Shannon at 271-9260 
tall 1-IOMJZ.OSZI 

NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &
Ext. 50 

STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
Clemens given 
O.K. to pitch 

Friday against rival Blue Jays 
BOSTON (AP) -Boston's Roger Clemens, sidelined with a sore right shoulder since Sept. 4, was given medical clearance to pitch on Friday against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
"He plans to throw on Tuesday and he's looking forward to pitching on Friday," Dr. Arthur Pappas, the Red Sox' doctor, said Monday at a news conference at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in Worcester. 
"Roger feels he has pitched through more than this in the past," Pappas said after exam­
.. ining the two-time Cy Young Award winner. "Roger wants to pitch and he feels he can pitch Friday night." Pappas, an orthopedic spe­cialist, emphasized that there is nothing seriously wrong with Clemens' right shoulder. "There is no problem with his rotator cuff," Pappas said. "There is no structural damage within his shoulder." Clemens, 20-6 with a 1. 98 earned run average, was stricken with severe tendinitis on Sept. 4 when he lasted just 5 1-3 innings and had an eight­game winning streak snapped by Oakland. After daily medication to re­duce inflammation and fluid buildup in the front of the shoulder, he aired out his arm last Tuesday, throwing 80 pitches in the bullpen in Baltimore. 
Detmer 
continued from page 16 

his performance in big games and his ability to bring his team team from behind. On Sept. 8 Detmer completed 38 of 54 passes to lead Brigham Young to a 28-21 triumph over Miami, which was the top­ranked team in the country at the time. And on Sept. 15 he rallied the Cougars from a 29-7 deficit against Washington State, throwing three touchdown passes in the last 15 minutes of a 50-36 BYU victory. 
Vaughn has not exactly been racking up the yards against a bunch of slouches, either. His 201-yard performance came against a top-ranked Notre Dame team which gave up only 117 yards rushing against the entire Michigan State team on Saturday. And UCLA, which is having an off-year, is still al­ways a decent team. 
Some of the credit for Vaughn's success will go to a Michigan offensive line which may be the biggest and best in the country. Likewise, a portion of Detmer's success will be credited to the sophisticated passing attack of Brigham Young coach La Veil Edwards, and a weak Cougar schedule.
-
Virginia quarterback Shawn Moore, who was a preseason favorite just like Detmer, might sneak into the race, too. Moore has completed 53 of 7 4 passes for 831 yards in four games this season, but he will play against an even weaker 
-
schedule with the Cavaliers than Detmer will this year, and he will almost certainly end up with inferior numbers. 
So if Vaughn and Detmer continue to perform like they have in the first few weeks of the season, it will be difficult to give the Heisman to another candidate. It will also be dif­ficult to choose between them. 
OLIVIA, 

HAPPY 21STIII 
I'D TAKE YOU TO MICKEY'S FOR UNA BIRRA GRANDE, FREE CHAMPAGNE AND SAMBUCA BUT IT'S NOT EXACTLY WITHIN DRIVING DISTANCE. MARY AND I WILL GET THE RED TUB READY ANYWAY. HAVE A FUN ONE!!III!!I 
LOVE, ANNE 
Top 1 0 Quotes from Wrigley Field 
1. 
You and me, babe, we're doing it after the game! 

2. 
We're following weirdos! 

3. 
l·feellike Ferris B'ueller. 

4. 
I hate men with hair on their backsll 

5. 
You are hitting on HER and the bees are hitting on YOU! 

6. 
Dude, the HOTIEST girlII 

7. 
Oh boy, we're going over the Skyway! 

8. 
What about Ed's?? 

9. 
G, another red light??!!? 


10.0K, boys on the bottom, girls on the top! 
Thanks Tommy, Katrina, Jen, Paul, G, Jeff, and Joanne! Kim 
Anna C., How much longer do I have to wait? -Getting Anxious 
TOP ?? LIST FROM ROADTRIP TO END ALL ROADTRIPS: -"So, where's the weirdest place you've ever scammed?" -"Puke check, Monica" -"Hey, I've got a really gross dorrr story.. ." -"Who farted?" -"1 thought we said no car tarts?" -"In Michigan, people drive with their lights on ma'am." -"Puke check, Monica" -"Who farted again?" -"Where do y'all do that, not in a bar??????" -"Uh-oh, Jen's hooking up with the Rax employees" -"Isn't that Renee???" -"1 think it was the fartmaster" -"Hey Lush, it's the Homeboy." -"If you can't go to college, go to State" -"By senior year, we'll all have these sweaters." -"Final puke check, Monica" 
A good time WAS had by all. Thanks for taking care of me in my time of need, and fire up for Tennesse????love,mo 
L 0 YOU MISS THE BIGGEST AND sdgf ~EST TRIP OF YOUR N.D. 
.,---iiiiii-------.
CAREER? NO vs USC-CALL 
SEIZED CARS, trucks, 
239-7308 
boats, 4wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS,
IT'S DISNEYLAND'S 35th ANNIVERSARY! VISIT MICKEY, ·iiEA. Available your area MINNIE & THE GANG. CALL 239­
now. Call (805) 682~7555 
7308. 
Ext C-2743. 


n~a~~toyou .. 
it works... 
for 
ALL OFUS 
UnitedWay
• 
i 

Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, 
i

manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems. diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Liliy is a Fortune 500 company : that has maintained record sales and earnings for 29 consecutive years. The company has a presence in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
We will be speaking with interested students about opportunities for Careers in Information Systems. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain many business/scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment 
I

including IBM, DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Lilly representatives from the Systems Division will be on campus: 
Thursday, September 27 7:00 -9:00 p.m. LaFortune Student Center 
Foster Room, Third Floor 
•i 

This presentation is geared toward students who are MIS, CAPP, Math/CC, or EE/Computer Sequence majors and for students with strong computer classwork experience. 
Lilly representatives will return to campus for interviews on Wednesday November 7, 1990. 
Refreshments will be provided. We look forward to discussing your opportunities in the systems field. 
Eli Lilly and Company an equal opportunity employer 

Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 33 Not windward 58 "To err is human,-": 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
1 Destroys with a 34 Ignited
3:45 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Pope
ray gun 35 Scrooge 59 Stravinsky
Seminar, "Numerical Simulation of Aerodynamic/Dynamic 
5 "-..-ofangels interjection 
so Eared seal 
Interaction," Dean Mook, Virginia Polytechnical Institute 
36 "Faint heart 

61 "When I was 
and State University. Room 303, Cushing Hall of Engi­10 Sheet of stamps -"(oldneering. Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engi­
14"-aman ..." saying quoted Gilbert neering. by Cervantes)
15 Spiteful 62 Org. 40 Make lace 63 Sells
16 Greek warrior 
4:30 p.m. Lecture: "Paleoceanography and 64 Mtg.
17 "-deserves 41 Boleyn and Paleolimnology of Petroleum Source Rocks," Lisa Pratt, the fair": Dryden Bancroft 
associate professor at Indiana University. Room 101, 20 Common spice 42Article 
DOWN
Earth Sciences Building. Sponsored by the Department of 21 Ireland, to a 
43 German poet: 

Earth Sciences. Gael 1759-1805 1 An element 2 Mine: Fr. 
22-Nevis, 
45 Longfellow 

3 Sean or William 
6:30-8 p.m. "Sexual Exploitation on Campus: What highest peak in subject 
4 British gun 
Every Student Should Know," Mickey Franco and April Great Britain 
47 Charon's river 5 Shrewdness 
Metzler, University Counseling Center. Hesburgh Library 23 Increases 
48 Precollege 6 Relay rod 

Lounge. 25"-onthe 
exam 7 Business-letter Keys" abbr.
49Rubik's­

29 Pulitzer Prize 
7:30 p.m. "POW/MIA: a Political Question," Ann Hart a--degree
cartoonist: 1967 51 Imputation
and Mark Waple. Sponsored by the William Miller Soci­9 Color 
10 Boston Celtics 
ety/SUB. Law School Moot Courtroom. 
star ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 What a closed 
7:30 p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass, Log 
door is not
Chapel. 
12 Wheel hub 13 Devon river 29Bid 48 Sewing case 53 Blue or White 18 Na"ive person 
30 Lessen river
48 McCarthy'sMENUS 
31 Consumer cousin 54 Genetic19 Electronic 
signaler 

advocate materials
23 Inventor Howe 49 Gear teeth 
32 Garden herb 55 Ref. books
24-Te 

50 E.T.'s vehicles? 
Notre Dame Kanawa, famed 34Addition 56 Aunt, in Avila soprano 37 Cronkite or 51 Terrible czar? 57 Cuomo of N.Y. Hampden
Chicken Romano 25German 
52 Gabor and Le 58 Inhabitant of: 
3&Simply

Chili Cheese Macaroni •••• philosopher's Gallienne Suffix 
family 39 Actress
Beef Stew w/ Biscuit 
lilt=+::+.::+:+.:;+.;; 26 Pertaining to Ullmann ~:=:-f:=+.:-the ileum 44"AStar-" Answers to any three clues in this f-:-1--:+-:-t:::-1 27 Canines, e.g. 45 Boxer Turpin puzzle are available by touch-tone Saint Mary's r.:t~;:+.:;-1 28 Thrice: Comb. and singer phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each form Travis minute). 
Baked fish w/ Oriental Ginger Sauce Turkey Burger Parmesan French Style Waffies w/ Strawberries Deli 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDF 
~------------------~~ 
IN fl.. '5(\E~I\HC t-\\':1'5\0N 10 TI{E: 1\t-.lC~OR Cro-\C~ts \)ISCO>J~~ ~l-IP..\ 1-\P..PP£\ItS W\-\t.N 00 ro-\-\1\.l.S\DE! 
E)(TRE.MELY 6HY CIIRTt>oN QtRRACTE:R
1\\JO Pl~NITS CDLL\0£, SPK't.· S?lrF [X)Wt{SI-\IFI'S 
two 1us TRAIN£ o Pu;.
MI\N SPliT DRoPS ,&..tK®R ' fiND GUNS ~ 
ll<\P£R.Ct.PIIBL'{ P..T FIRST, \1.11~ ... BREAI<.\NG OR~ IT, PLM~IT" Plt>-N£T SlDWl'l 1'<\01/E'S, TD'«ED PIC~'S Ul' SP£t::D, 1-\VRLING­/\lONG B~ OJR 1-\E'i<C. \Jt-IT\l ... 






Sports
Tuesday, September 25, 1990 
page 16 

Notre Dame both lucky and good in early going 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz sat alone in the lockerroom after the Irish had just rallied to defeat Michigan State 20-19 on Saturday afternoon. 

Greg Guffey 
Sports Editor 

His eyes were fixed straight ahead, somewhat oblivious to the congratulatory words thrown his way. His expression looked like he couldn't believe what had happened the past two weeks. At times, he looked like he was waiting for the players to leave so he could clean the lockerroom, not like the coach who had just won his second consecutive close game. 
When the talk turns to war at the next family reunion ­his father was in the Pacific theatre and his uncle in the Battle of the Bulge -Holtz can say that he participated in two in September of 1990. 
He looked battle-weary, but he was victorious. And in war, that counts for something. 
"I don't think anybody has any idea what it's like to be the football coach at Notre Dame," Holtz said. "Every week, big games, big opponents." 
In the past two weekends, Notre Dame has overcome fourth-quarter deficits to post big victories. The Irish were behind 24-14 to Michigan two weeks ago, but came back to win 28-24. They were down 19­7 to Michigan State and came out with a 20-19 triumph. 
Those victories have led many to call this one of the luckiest teams ever. Sometimes, it is better to be lucky than good. But the Irish have been both. 
"We've been lucky but we've had some bad luck too," Holtz said. "Good luck and good things happen to those who play hard." 
As each week passes, the Irish solidify their position at number one. The target on their chest grows at a propor­tional rate. 
"It's getting harder," said Irish linebacker Scott Kowalkowski. "Everybody is shooting for us." 
Says tailback Ricky Watters, "How can we relax after two games like that? We haven't had a complete game yet." 
see HOLTZ I page 13 

Detmer, Vaughn travel different roads to top 
Same foes, different results 
Men's soccer team loses to Michigan State, Marquette 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 

The leprecha.un that has been following the Notre Dame football team, guiding it to last­minute victories the past two weekends, obviously hasn't had time to follow the men' s soccer team. 
The Irish (2-6-1) dropped two games over the weekend, losing to Michigan State 1-0 Friday night and getting battered 4-0 by Marquette Sunday afternoon. 
The Michigan State game was played on a wet, muddy field that had been torn up by the women's game that immediately preceded the men's game. The playing conditions were definitely to the Spartans' advantage. 
"It (the field) affected us," said Assistant Coach Chris Petrucelli. "They were bigger and faster, and we were smaller and quicker. It slowed us down." 
Regardless of the field condi­tions, the final box-score on the game indicated the parity of the two teams. The Irish had only two shots on goal while the Spartans managed only four, leading to two saves by MSU goalkeeper Pat Trese and three saves for Notre Dame (two by Peter Gulli and one by Mike Fitz). Furthermore, Michigan State had only two corner kicks, while ND had just five. 
In a game in which the two teams played as evenly as Notre Dame and Michigan State did Friday evening, a single break for one team determines the outcome of the game. And this was one such game. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the break went to the Spartans. A handball in the goalie's box by aND player led to a penalty kick for Michigan State with just under 10 minutes left in the first half. Carl Hofinger hit the shot in the lower left corner of the goal, scoring what proved to be the deciding goal. 
No matter how the Irish tried, an offense that has been anemic since the Valparaiso game simply could not put the ball in the net, making the Spartans' lone goal the decid­ing score. 
see MEN I page 13 
The two players who have emerged as the early-season frontrunners in the race for the Heisman Trophy have 

Ken Tysiac 
World of Sports 

reached the spotlight from opposite directions. 
Brigham Young 
quarterback Ty Detmer was 
one of the preseason 
favorites to win the Heisman. 
Irish women defeat Spartans,tie Warriors 
By DAVID DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team (5-2-1) trounced Michigan State and tied Marquette this weekend, helping itself to a good measure of success in midwestern regional action. 
On Friday, Notre Dame capi­talized on two deflected balls ­one with 1:04 remaining in the contest -as it tromped the Spartans 2-1. Oddly enough, the Irish football team would pick up on the women's "deflected ball motif', as well as its "last­second victory motif" to sneak past the Spartan football team 20-19 barely 24 hours later. 
"We played an excellent game," remarked Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We were playing on the road against one of the top teams in our region, and for the most part, we dominated them. 
"It was a scoreless tie at the half, but we really felt like we were in control of the game at that point. It has been said that we were lucky because of the deflected balls, but lucky or not, we were the better team." 
The Irish wasted little time converting their control into goals in the second half, as ju­nior midfielder Marianne Giolitto scored at the 47:34 mark. The shot by Giolitto, which was the first of several 
He has still managed to important deflections for Notre 
surpass the expectations of Dame last weekend, ricocheted 
all but the most optimisticoff a Michigan State defender 
BYU fans in leading the toward the net, where Spartan 
Cougars to victories in their goalkeeper Andrea Gerbi was 
first four games. 

unable to stop it, having slipped to the ground. Marta Roemer Michigan tailback Jonwas credited with the assist. 
Vaughn, on the other hand,Michigan State, who fell to 2­
was not even assured of a
3 after the loss to the Irish, tied starting spot until the weekthe game at the 57:56 mark. 
of the Wolverines' first gameTammy Anderson launched a 
against Notre Dame. Thehigh shot from the left side tailback position was
which just eluded leaping Irish 
supposed to be a question
goalie Michelle Lodyga for a 1-1 
mark for Michigan this
tie. 
season with last year's starFreshman Tasha Strawbridge Tony Boles gone. Butnailed the game-winning goal Vaughn, who won the jobfor Notre Dame with a meager from senior Allen Jefferson, 
see WOMEN I page 13 
has instead turned the tailback position into an exclamation point under new coach Gary Moeller. 
Vaughn, who gained only 11 yards on 10 carries last season as a freshman, opened the season with a 201-yard performance in a 28-24 loss to Notre Dame on Sept 15. He improved on that Saturday in his second game of the year, gaining 288 yards on 32 carries against UClA Both of those games were seen by a national television audience; Vaughn has achieved nationwide attention in a hurry. 
Detmer, meanwhile, was expected to live up to the tradition that former Cougar quarterbacks Jim McMahon, Steve Young and Robbie Bosco had laid out for him. As a sophomore last season he broke or tied 13 NCAA records. In last year's Holiday Bowl, a 50-39 Cougar loss to Penn State, Detmer passed for more yards (576) than any other player ever has in any bowl game. 
The San Antonio native has been sensational this season as well. Saturday he completed 26 of 38 passes for 514 yards and three touchdowns in a 62-34 win over San Diego State. That brought his season totals to 129 of 189 (68.3 percent), and 1,755 yards (439 yards per game). 
Also to Detmer's credit are 
see DETMER I page 14 




