
VOL. XXIII NO. 92 MONDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Japan's conservative party retains majority 

TOKYO (AP) -Japan's con­servative governing party fought off criticism about scandals and an unpopular tax and held onto its majority in parliament's powerful lower house, official returns showed Monday. 
The Liberal Democratic party, in power since 1955, looked as if it may have lost about 30 seats in Sunday's na­tional election. But its seat count reached the bare majority of 257 after vote counting resumed Monday morning, ac­cording to returns on Japan Broadcasting Corp. and Kyodo News Service. 
Financial markets showed lit­tle reaction to the victory of the pro-business Liberal Democrats, which had been predicted in media polls. The key index on the Tokyo Stock Exchange opened a moderate 
134.11 points higher Monday at 
Exiled ANC leader speaks on state-run T.V. in S. Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (APl -A top-ranking exiled leader· of the African National Congress, in an un­precedented interview shown Sunday on state-run television, appealed to whites to help build a post-apartheid South Africa. 
Thabo Mbeki, the ANC's equivalent of a foreign minister, told viewers they had been the victims of a prolonged mis­information campaign that de­picted his organization as seeking to impose a communist­style one-party state. 
"What has inspired the ANC for all these 70-plus years of its 
NDto start literacy program 
By PAUL PEARSON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is starting a lit­eracy program involving the University community and its members' families, University President Father Edward Malloy announced. 
The program, titled "Literacy 
101: Each One Teach One," will use University students, faculty, and staff members to tutor other members of the Notre Dame community, said Linda Sumner, an employee relations and training manager for Hu­man Resources. 
According to Sumner, who will coordinate the program, the University tried to start a similar program in June, 1987, which "didn't come together:." 
Then, in August, 1989, the St. Joseph's Literacy Council was incorporated into the United Way and, Sumner said, "the publicity happened to cross my desk." 
Sumner contacted the direc­tor of this program and gener­ated interest for starting a program involving Notre Dame. 
Literacy 101 will be geared 
see LITERACY I page 6 

existence has been the vision of Until Feb. 2, when President a South Africa that belongs to F.W. de Klerk lifted a 30-year all the people," Mbeki said ban on the ANC, it was a crime from Lusaka, Zambia, the for South African media to group's headquarters. "If they quote Mbeki and other senior acted together, they could ANC leaders. transform this country into Asked about de Klerk's peace something great." initiative, aimed at starting ne­
It was the first time the South gotiations on a new constitu­African Broadcasting Corp. has tion, Mbeki replied: "The road conducted and broadcast its ahead is still a long road, with own in-depth interview with one lots of problems in front of us. of the ANC's exiled leaders. But hopefully the doors to a 
On Thursday, it carried an in­political settlement of this terview by two of its reporters problem have been opened." with Nelson Mandela, the ANC "What white South Africa leader freed Feb. 11 after 27 needs to do is to join the pro­years in prison. cess of ending the apartheid 
• Elected despite scandal I page4 
37,594.43, and the dollar opened slightly lower at 144.28 yen. 
A jubilant Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu declared the re­sults had "purified" the Liberal Democrats of scandal. But op­position parties said political reforms still were required, and the legislative outlook was dif­ficult since the opposition con­trols the less powerful upper house of Parliament. 
Vote-counting had stopped Sunday night with the Liberal Democrats in a clear lead and heading for a majority. Then on Monday counting for 81 seats in the Tokyo area started, and the governing party quickly surpassed the bare majority. 
At 9:30 a.m.. with 460 of the 
see ELECTION I page 4 

system," he said. "Presumably these people who acted together to change the past would have confidence enough in one another to build the future." 
He said whites have "a very, very wrong perception of the ANC, the result of many decades of misinformation ... that the ANC is some commu­nist-dominated group whose in­tention is to impose itself on the people of South Africa with a one-party state, that it's go­ing to destroy the economy." 
"It is important that the ANC should not be demonized in the eyes of the people," Mbeki said. 
He said he was not surprised at a backlash among right­wing whites opposed to de Klerk's reforms. 
On Friday, the ANC executive committee said in Lusaka it would send a delegation to South Africa for talks with de Klerk on how to remove obsta­cles to full negotiations on a new constitution. 
De Klerk has lifted bans on 
the ANC and other opposition 
groups, said political exiles can 
come home and made other 
concessions that met many of 
the ANC's pre-conditions for 
negotiations. 


The Observer/David Lee Chrissy Ciletti and Tracie O'Connell attend brunch with their parents on Sunday as Junior Parents' Weekend comes to an end. The we·ekend included talks by University President Father Edward Malloy and William Sexton, vice president for University Relations. 

page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
Are you dating? Don't commit to adirect answer 
Love knows no bounds. It also knows Kendra Morrill 
no definitions, expla­nations or logical Assistant terms to describe it. News Editor 
Everyone, at one time or another, tries to describe the rela­tionship he or she is in. If you try to avoid description, good luck. "Friends" inevitably forces some definition or explanation by making people ask outright what the situa­tion is. 
To avoid giving the "wrong" answer, memorize several "right" ones, depending on the situation, and reel them off as though you know what you are talking about. Questions and answers usually vary by degree of commitment/emotional attachment. beginning with the least: 
Are you dating'? This is fairly easy to an­swer without committing yourself. After all. what is "dating?" Going to movies or par­ties together? Meeting at the dining hall? Going to more than one SYR with the same person? You are fairly safe in saying, "Yeah, I guess we're kind of dating." But to be really safe, stress that you also date other people. 
Are you seeing each other? This asks for a little more commitment. It implies you are, temporarily at least. attached to whomever you are "seeing." It involves more than doing things together -it means you like to do things together. To be safe, you could add that you'd like to see other people, or that this is just a temporary ar­rangement. 
Are you going out? This is a little stronger than "seeing each other." Com­mitment is definitely implied. The person you're going out with can be construed as your boyfriend/girlfriend, which leads to ... 
Are you, like, boyfriendgirlfriend? This 
must be asked with a giggle, with "like" in­
cluded, and with "boyfriendgirlfriend" pro­
nounced as one word. It belongs in the same 
group as "Are you, like, going to the Mall?" 
and "Dude, like, check out my new skate­
board." The best answer you can possibly 
give is an emphatic "No." Regardless of 
whether you are, like. boyfriendgirlfriend. 
this is a silly question and puts a silly label 
on you. 
To avoid answering any question directly, 
give a longer explanation: "Well, we're 
really good friends and we do a lot together 
and we like to spend time together and we 
have a lot in common." My favorite is: ''I'm 
in like." 
The problem with this occurs when you enter the serious commitment/emotional attachment phase. Then you might have to say the "L" word. Once you admit that to yourself, you will probably have to admit it to the person you're in L--with. That means saying "I L--you." 
If you've reached this phase, you're on your own. No form answers can guide you. 
(This column appeared in The Observer on April 21, 1988.) 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
Viewpoint  News  Sports  
Kevin Reisch  Kelley Tuthill  Theresa Kell•y  
Sandy Wiegand  
Systems  Production  
Amalia Meier  Joe Zadrozny  
Dan Towers  Accent  Beth Peterson  
Colleen Cronin  
Business  Cristina Ortiz  
Monica Yant  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Monday, February 19, 1990
The Observer 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Monday, February 19 
Yesterday's high: 40 
Yesterday's low: 23 
Nation's high: 87 

(Fort Myers, Lakeland, 
Orlando, and Bartow 
FL) Nation's low: -19 (Massena, NV) 
Forecast: 

Sunny today with a high from 35 to 40. Clear and cold tonight. Low from 15 to 20. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

Foreign Relations Commission needs juniors in-All Candidates for Class Officer are required to terested in this position for 90-91 academic year. If you'd attend a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the like to learn more about this Student Government posi-Sorin Room on the 1st Floor LaFortune. Rules and regu­tion, call Kara 283-1825 or Thorn 283-3207. lations will be discussed at this meeting. At least one can­
did?te from each ticket must be present for that ticket to 
be considered for eligibility. 
WORLD 

The United Nations opens a special session Supporting the year-old death sentence 
Tuesday on the international anti-drug war, seeking ways against British author Salman Rushdie, thousands of stu­to cut supplies, reduce demand, and undo traffickers' dents demonstrated Sunday and also demanded that Bri­schemes for laundering profits. But it is unclear if the ton Roger Cooper be executed, according to Iranian me­world body can make a dent in the problem when it is so dia reports. Cooper, a 53-year-old British businessman, badly strapped for funds. "The funds that we have at our has been held in prison on spying charges in Iran since 
disposal are extremely limited in relation to the problem," Dec. 7, 1985. He lived in Iran for 20 years prior to his ar­said Margaret Anstee, director-general of the U.N. office rest. In London, the British Foreign Office said it "deeply in Vienna and coordinator of U.N. drug programs in an deplored" the call for his execution. interview. "In the area of drugs, we are being asked to do much more with less." 
NATIONAL 

Nadia Comaneci thinks her 
A Christian Scientist couple who tried to heal defection from Romania may have their ailing 15-month-old child through prayers have been helped trigger the revolution there, the acquitted on charges of involuntary manslaughter and former Olympic gymnast says in Life child endangerment. Los Angeles County Superior Court magazine's March issue. Comaneci Judge Robert Thomas ruled Friday that there was insuffi­said her flight to the West in Novem­cient evidence to convict Eliot and Lise Glaser on the ber hit her homeland "like a bomb. A charges filed in the death of their son, Seth. The toddler bomb for the government. Because died March 28, 1984, of meningitis following a two-day what will the people think? :1/lf.m!l illness. That even Nadia leaves Romania. "They thought I had the good life, but I didn't. I lived just like the others," said President Bush hopes to bring Soviet Presi­
Comaneci, who won glory for her country when she dent Mikhail Gorbachev to visit his oceanside retreat to scored perfect lOs in the Montreal Olympics in 1976. Kennebunkport, Maine during June's superpower summit. About a month after Comaneci left, Romania's commu­"I think he'd enjoy it," Bush said, speaking with reportersnist government was overthrown and dictator Nicolae as he and his wife Barbara enjoyed a brisk hour-long
Ceausescu was executed. 
walk on the beach. Bush also said he continues to believe that a reunified Germany should be part of NATO. despite Soviet reservations. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATEINDIANA 
Closings for February 16. 1990
On February 19: 

The annual winter eagle count in Indi­
e In 1807: Former Vice Presi­ana turned up 72 bald eagles and two golden ea­dent Aaron Burr was arrestedgles, a drop of 21 eagles from last year's count in Alabama. (He was subse­but still the second highest total since 1979, state quently tried for treason andofficials say. The count Jan. 4-18 also turned up 
acquitted.)

s~ven bald eagles spotted on either the Kentucky 
e In 1878: Thomas Edison re­
Side of the Ohio River or the Illinois side of the ceived a patent for his phono­Wabash River, said John Castrale. a wildlife bi­
graph.

ologist for the Indiana Department of Natural 
Resources. e In 1881: Kansas became the first state to prohibit all alco­
S&P Composite

The ~onviction of a Marine corporal holic beverages. 332.72 .0 2.17 from Indiana who served 226 days in the brig in e In 1942: President Franklin Dow Jones Industrials 1988 for allegedly having sex with another D. Roosevelt signed an execu­2635.59 {7 13.96 woman was overturned by a military appeals tive order making possible the court, court documents show. In an unusual de­wartime internment of 
Precious Metals cision, the Court of Military Review in Washing­Japanese-Americans. Gold 'iJ $4.70 to$417.10/oz. ton on Thursday found that two of the officers e In 1963: The Soviet Union 
Sllver'i} 1.0¢ to $5.34/ oz.
serving on the jury at Mishawaka, Ind. native informed President Kennedy Barbara Baum's court martial were biased and that it would withdraw "several Source: AP that the military judge had allowed uncorrobo­thousand" of an estimated rated testimony. 17,000 Soviet troops in Cuba. 

NVSE Index 183.75 

Monday, February 19, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Graduation ticket info. announced 
By PETER LOFTUS 
News Writer 
Guest ticket request forms for the' 1990 commencement will be mailed to all prospective graduating students by the end of February, according to Daniel Winicur, dean of admin­istration and registrar. 
Each student will be asked to specify the number of tickets needed, he said. The tickets will be distributed beginning May 15 in room 422 Administration Building. 
Those who request only one or two guest tickets will be guaranteed the best seats in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, said Winicur. Those who request only three tickets will be guaranteed seats to­gether. 
Students who request four tickets will be guaranteed three tickets. The fourth ticket will be distributed if there are enough for all requesting a fourth ticket. If there are not enough tickets there will be a lottery, said Winicur. 
It's possible for students to get more than four tickets, he said, if there are enough. There would be a lottery for those fifth tickets. 
The precess for ticket distri­bution is basically the same as last year, Winicur said. The only difference is the possibility that the students will not have to fill out the senior survey, a questionnaire about students' plans after graduation, which seniors were requested to fill­out in past years when they picked up their tickets. 
Winicur said there have not been any problems with ticket distribution in the past, and he does not expect any this year. 
All commencement ceremony guests will need a ticket to en­ter the Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center May 20 be­cause of the high demand for seats, said Winicur. 
The University has required tickets for commencement at­tendance since 1977. 
Soviets protest lack of consumer goods 
MOSCOW (AP) -Tens of thousands of people gathered Sunday in the Tadjikistan capi­tal of Dushanbe to protest liv­ing conditions and a lack of consumer goods and medicines, Tass news agency reported. 
It said the crowd also decried further ethnic violence in the republic, where rioting in the last week has killed at least 22 people. 
Shodi Shabdolov, a secretary of the Tadjikistan Communist Party, blamed the violence on unresolved social problems, the party daily Pravda reported Sunday. 
He told Pravda one source of tension was that 117,000 young people had only seasonal jobs and an additional 70,000 were unemployed in Dushanbe, a city of 600,000 located 600 miles 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
southeast of Moscow. 
Shabdolov said riots had caused $12 million in damage and losses from looting amounted to $3.3 million more. 
The violence was touched off on Feb. 10 by rumors that Ar­menian refugees were arriving by the thousands and receiving scarce apartments in the city. 
Mobs rampaged through the tree-lined streets of Dushanbe, nestled at the foot of a high mountain range, and set fire to buildings, broke windows and smashed public vehjcles. 
Tass said Sunday the situa­tion remained unstable despite patrols by more than 7,000 

The Observer/David lee

Blowing his own hom 
Senior Colin Quinn performs at just one of the many rocking activ­ities for students on Junior Parents' Weekend, a Jazz Band per­formance Sunday. 


regular police and Interior Ministry and army troops. It said protesters defied an 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. 
official mourning period to 
Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint.
hold rallies in two districts near Dushanbe and demand 
Join the Ad department or work in the Production 
improved living standards. 
aspect of the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Tass said 61 people were ar­rested in the previous 24 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. 
houses for violating the state of 
You'll be glad you did.
emergency still in effect, and 44 
pounds of narcotics were 
seized. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
SWEATER SPECIAL 
START YOUR CLIMB TO CAREER SUCCESS THIS SUMMER. 
Apply for Army ROTC summer leader­
OFF
ship training. You'll develop confidence and decisiveness essential for success. 
Bring in any 3 sweaters
And you'll qualify to earn officer credentials while completing college. 
or more and get them cleaned for HALF OFF the regular price. 

Limited time only. 
ARMY ROTC 


2 Convenient Locations
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM 
Near Campus 207 Dix~ay South (Roseland) 

THE SMARTEST COWGE 
272-8093 Ironwood at South Bend Ave. Greenwood Shopping Center 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
272~9461

contact Maj. Weiss 
Anny ROTC 239-6264 


Final returns were expected
257. .!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::====~~==~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::byA2 ;;~~ctionof270seatsfor 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN
the Liberal Democrats would 
leave them 25 shortofthe 2951-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
they held in the last house. 
The opposition rejected Kaifu's claim that the Liberal Democrats had been cleared o any wrongdoing by the election. 
"Simply being elected does 
not mean one is absolved,'....--------------------------------------------------1• 
Socialist  Secretary  Genera  
Tsuruo Yamaguchi said. "The need for political reform is big­ger than ever."  THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND  
Koshiro Ishida, chairman of the Komeito, said: "There has been no 'purification.' I'd lik  LETTERS  
to  know  how  the  Liberal  
Democrats  plan  to  take  re­ 

sponsibility (for corrupt poli-.-------------------------------------------------1 
page 4 
Politicians elected despite their ties to recent scandal 
TOKYO (AP) -Voter outrage 
over Japan's worst postwar 
political scandal appeared to 
have subsided by Sunday's na­
tional election. when leading 
conservative politicians won re­
election despite their ties to the 
case. 
"A general election is a judg­
ment by the people, and I 
passed," said former Prime 
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, 
one of many linked to the 
widespread influence-peddling 
scandal named for the informa­
tion conglomerate Recruit Co. 
Dozens of influential politi­
cians, bureaucrats and busi­
nessmen gained millions of dol­
lars in donations or profits 
from cut-rate stock offered by 
Hecruit. 
Noboru Takeshita resigned 
as prime minister to take re­
sponsibility for the scandal, 
and his successor, Sousuke 
Uno, stepped down after only 
two months because of election 
setbacks last July stemming 
from the Recruit case and an 
unpopular sales tax. Uno also 
was embarrassed by a former 
geisha who said he had paid 
her to be his mistress. 
Nakasone left the governing 
Liberal Democratic Party in 
disgrace. and several other 
prominent Liberal Democrats 
who received money from He­
cruit stepped out of competi­
tion for the prime minister's 
post. 
But the only Hecruit-linked 
candidate who lost Sunday was 
Kunio Takaishi. a former vice 
minister of education who is 
under indictment for bribery. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
512 seats declared, the Liberal Democrats had 253, the Socialists 127. the Komeito ­or Clean Government Party ­32, the Communist Party 14, the Democratic Socialist Party 12, the United Social Democratic Party three and the Progressive Party one. lndf~pendents held 18 seats, and about a dozen of them were conservatives expected to join 
the Liberal Democrats in the lower housn. Within an hour the Liberal Democrats' total climbed above 
tics)." Kaifu pledged to reform poli­
tics when he became prime minister last August, but he ha 
made little headway. Voters returned to their par­
liamentary seats virtually all 0 
~~~e~ji~e;:; ~eec~~~rs~~sc~~t~~-­
dal, in which many politicians
profited from cut-rate shares. 
A program arranged by Dean MICHAEL J. LOUX and the Faculty of Th C II g f A t d L tte S
e 0 e e 0 r s an e r 
6:30 P.M., Tuesday, February 20, 1990-Engineering 
( Cushi"ng) AudiOtori'urn 
Takaishi, 59, bought 10,000 shares of Recruit-Cosmos, a Recruit real estate subsidiary, reselling most of it for a hand­some profit. 
Caught lying on national TV in 1988 about his stock pur­chase, he decided last year against running for Parliament, but changed his mind again in December. Late Sunday, police arrested one of his private sec­
retaries on charges of handing out cash to voters. 
All but two other Recruit­tainted Liberal Democrats were declared winners within hours after the polls closed. 
"The election results are a significant verdict of the people according to the constitution," Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu told reporters outside his offi­cial residence. "It is a form of purification." 
The opposition was quick to challenge Kaifu's interpreta­tion. 
"Simply being elected does not mean one is absolved," So­cialist Secretary-General Tsu­ruo Yamaguchi said. "The need for political reform is bigger than ever." 
Koshiro Ishida, chairman of the Komeito (Clean Government Party), added, "There has been no 'purification.' I'd like to know how the Liberal Democrats plan to take re­sponsibility (for corrupt poli­tics)." 


CAll~NG All lEPRECHAUN§ 
COME TO THE INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
February 21st, 7:00p.m. Basketball Arena 
Monday, February 19, 1990 
On the campaign trail 
AP Photo Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega reaches out from a pickup truck to shake hands during a campaign rally in Matagalpa. The nation goes to the polls Feb. 25 to elect a new president. 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 
CC?me to t~e cheerleading 1nformat1onal meeting 
FEBRUARY 21st 
7:00pm in the Auditorium next to the Football office in the JACC. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
Among the Recruit-linke~------------------------------------------------.. candidates who won were former prime minister 
FRESHMEN FRESHMENFRESHMEN
Yasuhiro Nakasone, 72, and 
NoboruTakeshita,65. ................................................................................................... 
--------~~--~~~-----­
---------------~--~-­
Monday, February 19, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Cheney arrives in the Philippines 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
Quit smoking. 
VvFRE FIGHTING FOR American Heart \DJR LIFE Association 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN 
ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE 
STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A 
TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. 
ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE 
VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. 
THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD 
OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED 
IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
· 

MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Defense Secretary Dick Cheney flew into Manila Monday for security talks, facing a rare snub from President Corazon Aquino and anger over what many Filipinos consider a U.S. failure to meet its obligations. 
Leftist groups announced plans for demonstrations on Monday to demand closing of the six American military bases in the Philippines. 
Cheney, on a two-week tour 

of the Pacific rim th!,!.t included 
Dick Cheney 

a stop in South Korea, arrived from Hong Kong and was during an August 1987 coup at­taken by helicopter to the tempt. Department of National The unrepaired structure Defense at Camp Aguinaldo for stood as a symbol of the politi­talks with Defense Secretary cal challenge facing the Aquino Fidel Ramos. government and continuing dis­
content within the 160,000­
Later, Cheney was to visit the member armed forces, whose U.S.-run Subic Bay and Clark members have tried six times to military bases before leaving topple Mrs. Aquino. Tuesday for Japan. At U.S. officials said Cheney was Aguinaldo, he reviewed an expected to tell Ramos that the honor guard near the armed United States hopes to reduce forces headquarters, gutted its troop strength in the Far 
I Ml:. t11LI:. Y l"'t11£t: IN
------~~~--· 
ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN 
ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE 
INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME 
GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 4:30PM ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11 
In October 1988, then­Secretary of State George Shultz agreed that the United States would provide $962 mil­lion over two years to maintain the bases until their lease ex­pires in 1991. 
This year, President Bush asked Congress for $360 mil­lion for base maintenance pay­ments, but the figure was cut by $96 million. U.S. diplomats in Manila say it is unlikely the cuts will be restored. 
The cuts were made while the 
U.S. and Philippine govern­ments prepared for talks on ex­tending the base leases beyond 1991. Any new agreement re­quires approval of two-thirds of the 23-member Philippine Senate, where anti-base senti­ment is strong. 
Many Filipinos are convinced the United States wants to maintain its bases here at all costs and that claims of bud­getary pressures and a possible voluntary withdrawal are mere negotiating tactics. 
"Being a big, rich and power­ful nation, it (the United States) intends to get what it wants by bamboozling the Filipinos into submission," said the indepen­dent daily, The Manila Times. 
= 
Macintosh 
SE/30 


. . . .. . . ····-···-·······-··-·-····· ··-· 
-:· .·.:~~1\ M~~ ~-~ ::: ..:·:.:: :\ftt/:i{~~if!j}t::r
TmTmnmmmnrmrrrmnnrmr 
East by 10 percent to 12 per­cent over the next three years and that Congress is unlikely to keep paying as much for their upkeep. 
Mrs. Aquino, who said she would refuse to see Cheney, in­structed Ramos to complain about the Bush Administration's failure to de­liver promised compensation for the use of Clark, Subic and the four smaller U.S. installa­tions in the Philippines. 
The Apple Advantage 
t1 Powerful technology that's easy to use. t1 Thousands of consistent applications that work together. t1 Abroad product family that runs that same software. tl Built-in networking capability. 
, 

• An avenue for growth without disruption. 


NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building
Apple 

® Computer 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
©1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are n:gisten:d trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 


Monday, February 19, 1990 
page 6 The Observer 
Opposition leads Managua rally 

February 23 
See Castles in the Air 
And learn your way around the world 
"If you have built castles in the air, now put the foundations under them." Henry David nw .... u 
Study in London for $4325 per semester. Includes air fare,
GETACTIVE!! 
resident tuition, field trips, home stay with meals. 
Study in Seville, Spain, for $3625 per semester. Includes resident 
tuition, field trips, home stay witfi. meals. No foreign language 
proficiency required. 

Summer program also available in London.
RECYCLE 
IDTRE DAJIE 

For further information, write or call: 
Institute for Study Abroad Programs
a planet is a terrible thing to ~~;t~ 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 
1 University Plaza 

Platteville, Wisconsin 53818-3099
f Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass 
608-342-1726 

For more information contact Paul Ruesch 2n-6172, or call239-7668 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -The United National Opposi­tion closed its election cam­paign on Sunday with the largest anti-government rally in 10 years, and its presidential candidate promised peace in Central America if she wins. 
The broad, U.S.-backed coali­tion of 14 parties and one na­tive Indian organization ­known as UNO -is the major rival of the ruling Sandinista National Liberation Front in general elections next Sunday. 
"On this bright day, which announces the end of the dark night of Sandinismo, I raise my flag of national reconciliation," Violeta Barrios de Chamorro told a crowd of about 60,000. 
Chamorro repeated campaign promises to end the draft, re­build the economy and reduce the size of the army, the largest in Central America. 
"Next Sunday ... the vote of the people is going to knock down the wall of shame, as the German people did with the Berlin wall," she told cheering supporters at the Plaza of the Revolution. 
She is challenging President 
Daniel Ortega for a six-year 
Literacy 
continued from page 1 
toward "members of the service 
occupations that don't involve 
reading or writing," Sumner 
said. The program will 
"function under the umbrella" 
of the St. Joseph's Literacy 
Council. 
According to Sumner, no Uni­versity employee will be forced to attend the program. "This will not he a situation where people will have to attend to get a promotion or to keep their job," she said. 
Tutors will undergo four 
three-hour training sessions, 
the first set of which is sched­
uled for March 19, 21, 27, and 
28. Training will take place at Theodore's. "It's very easy to be certified," Sumner said. 
Any student interested in be­
coming a tutor for the program 
can contact Notre Dame's Hu­
man Resources Department at 
239-5900, she said. 
It is too early to measure the feedback from University em­ployees, Sumner said. However, questionnaires were distributed to employee managers last Monday, and the feedback from these have been "Hxcellent," she said. 
Sumner predicted that, for the first 6 months of the pro­gram, "we'll probably have more tutors than students." 
"I have the feeling that, if I am able to change at least one person, it will have been worth it," she added. 
·~ 
.. 
Violeta Chamorro 

term, in an election that has been called a referendum on 10 years of Sandinista rule. 
About 1. 7 million Nicaraguans, nearly half of the population of 3.8 million, have registered to vote in the elec­tions for president and vice president, National Assembly, 144 municipal councils and two regional councils. 
The rally drew the biggest opposition attendance yet. UNO complained, however, that of­ficials refused to allow in a sound system rented in neigh­boring Costa Rica and that supporters coming from 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 22 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 


IIru1!cerrce~1!cecDl ilru J])il~ruruilru~ 
~rr~ru~ifcerr 
®rrilceru1!~~il®IID f 
Applications can be picked up at the 
secretary's desk an the second floor \ of LaFortune 
Deadline: Friday, 
provincial towns were blocked or harassed. 
Police in riot gear had been stationed throughout Managua since Saturday night, and police jeeps with tear gas grenade­launchers were lined up on streets. 
Public transport was almost non-existent in the capital Sun­day morning. Some people said they did not attend the rally be­cause they feared trouble or had no way of getting there. 
"They (police) stopped our caravan outside Masaya," a town 30 minutes from Managua, said one man at the rally, who would only give his first name, Santos. "They kept us there for a long time, and people were getting angry. They finally let us go, but one truck at a time, very slowly." 
Chamorro's running mate, Virgilio Godoy, spoke of 200,000 people at the rally, but international observers and journalists agreed on the esti­
The Observer/David Lee
Sharing wisdom 

mate of 60,000. Chamorro, publisher of the Father Edward Malloy mingles with the guests at the Junior Par-newspaper La Prensa, promised ents' Weekend closing brunch. 
that Nicaragua's soldiers ·u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiAAiiAA~~~~~
would be be trained for civilian g: 
jobs. 


Happy Birthday Marcia and Heather! 

Love, Us (+A) 
University of Wisconsin Platteville 
~ ~ 

Monday, February 19, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Russian defense lawmakers tour Kennedy Space Center 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Russian defense committee lawmakers toured the Kennedy Space Center Sunday as NASA groomed the shuttle Atlantis for a Thursday launch with a secret satellite that reportedly will spy on the Soviet Union. 
The committee chairman and head of the delegation, Vlaidimir Lapygin, said he was impressed by the shuttle launch facilities, and when asked by a reporter what he thought of Atlantis' spy satellite, he replied with a smile: 
"We have no special secrets. ... I think you are wasting your money." 
The unprecedented five-hour Soviet visit here and stops at other U.S. military installations are results of the new openness in the Soviet l3nion and follow a similar trip to that country last August by members of the U.S. House Armed Services Commit­tee. 
The group of 23 included 10 members of the Defense Com­mittee of the Soviet National Legislature and advisers on 

~~®~~~~~~ 

KILLILEA 
l
z 
(offer ends March 9, 1 
Keep that great GM feeling w1th genuine GM parts. 
~ ~ 
&i ·""~ . . ~ 
~ . . Olds~oblle ~~ 
~ 2102 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544 ~~~~~~~(219) 255-9644~~~~ 
'~~~~ J~ ~< --~~~!!!!!G!e!t!re!a!d!y!fo!r!S!p!r!in!g!B!r!ea!k!!!!!~
~)~~;; 
, ,. }/ FREE TANNING 
~I ·~\ with every Purchase! 
• , }/, ' I 
FOR A~ VERY UMITED TIME! 
~ ~' . /I / l (WITH THIS AD) '/ v y~ FOR DETAILS ... 
\ / \ '·.. · stop in to see our 1 --....._ \~.) \ salon. or call us at ... 1\~ \' . I 272•7653 
\'; ...~.\ ~ 
;J t~J!JiilBou.. 
University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln. 
space, science, disarmament and foreign affairs. 
They toured facilities where space shuttles and their pay­loads are worked on, a launch control center and shuttle Launch Pad 39B, from where they could view Atlantis on Pad 39A, two miles away. 
At Pad A, workers were but­toning up the shuttle's engine compartment and making other preparations for a darkness launch early Thursday. 
The countdown began on time at 8 p.m. Sunday when electri­cal power was sWitched on in the shuttle. Because Atlantis' payload is classified, the Pentagon and NASA will not announce the precise launch time until nine minutes before blastoff to make it harder for Soviet satellites and a recon­naissance ship sitting offshore to track the spaceship. 
Officials have announced only that launch will occur between midnight and 4 a.m. However, sources close to the project said Atlantis and its crew of 

London. 
6nights. 
as per
$214
little as person* 
The "London As-You~Please" Holiday offers London fo~ the independent traveller, including: 
• 
6 mghts hotel accommodation 

• 
Continental breakfast daily 

• 
Airport transfers; Sightseeing 

• 
7-day London Transport Card 


• Shopping and Dining discounts Contact your travel agent or call British Airways at 1-800-AIRWAYS. 
C> \990 Briush Airways 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 
'-------­
The worlds favounre airline.• / 
*Land price ranges from $214 to $572 per person. All rates based on double occupancy. Does not include airfare. Subject to availability. Valid for travelll/1/89-3/31190. 

BREAK INTO SPRINC~­
,. 
. ­
l' 
five military officers are to take off at 1 a.m. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the shuttle's payload is a 37 ,300-pound satellite with a dual role to snap high-resolu­tion reconnaissance photos and eavesdrop on military and diplomatic communications. 

They said the satellite will be launched into a high-inclination orbit that will cover most of the Soviet Union, including north­ern areas not previously over­flown·. 
Questions remain for Hazelwood 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) ­After two weeks of testimony, prosecutors plan to wind up the case against Joseph Hazelwood by offering a few more pieces of the Exxon Valdez puzzle and some expert witnesses to put it all together. 
Navigation experts are ex­pected to testify as well as those who have studied the ef­fects of alcohol over long peri­ods. 
Coast Guardsmen who went aboard the crippled vessel in the hours after it hit a jagged reef are likely to provide ac­counts of the final hours in Hazelwood's ordeal at sea. 

The 987 -foot tanker he com­manded, one of the newest and most advanced in Exxon's fleet of oil cargo carriers, grounded on Bligh Reef in the early morning hours of March 24. The holes gashed in its giant tanks caused the nation's worst oil spill, a gusher of 10.92 mil­lion gallons of oil spurting into the crystal waters of Prince William Sound. 
Countless birds, fish and wildlife perished and hundreds of miles of rocky shore was blackened. 
_Hazelwood, 43, of Hunting­ton, N.Y., is charged with felony criminal mischief and three misdemeanors -reckless endangerment, negligent dis­charge of oil and operating a vessel while intoxicated. If con­victed he could face a maximum of 7 1/4 years in prison and $61,000 in fines. 
At his trial, a procession of 23 prosecution witnesses have given accounts of the disaster and its possible causes. Testi­mony has focused on Hazel­wood's alleged intoxication and his behavior as commander of the ship. 
Key points of inquiry have been: 
•Was Hazelwood drunk? Crew members say he neither 

Before you head south for the sand and waves make sure you go east to OUTPOST SPORTS for the finest selection of 1990 funwear! 
3602 GRAPE ROAD MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 (219) 259-1000 
slurred nor staggered and was cool and calm in the wake of 
the  accident.  But  blood  and  
urine  tests  taken  nearly  10  
hours  after  the  accident  

showed alcohol in his system, and he was seen drinking in a Valdez bar earlier in the day. 
•Did 
Hazelwood act recklessly when he left the bridge of his ship in the hands of the third mate and a helmsman during a tricky maneuver past ice? Witnesses say Hazelwood knew the helmsman needed close su­pervision, even when doing simple tasks. The veteran third mate, Gregory Cousins, said he agreed to take charge of the ship while Hazelwood went be­low for a few minutes. 

•Was 
Hazelwood trying to steer his ship off the reef after the accident? Witnesses have said that backing the tanker off the reef might have caused it to capsize, adding loss of life to the tragedy. 




EAS 
Moolay, Feh 19, 1990 
7:30pn Man PtlqxJie Room (CSC) 
Panel Discussion: 
"Implications and Realities of German Reunification" 
Prof. J. Robert Wegs, 
Chairman and Professor, History Prof. Donald P. Kommers, Professor, Govt. and Law, Govt. and lnt'l Studies, Law School 
Prof. Bernard Norling, 
Professor Emeritus, History Dr. Jurgen Brauer, Visiting Scholar, Institute for lnt'l Peace Studies 
Thesday, Feh 20, 1990 7:30pm Man PtlqxJie Room (CSC) 
Lecture: 
"Lithuania: Is Independence Possible?" 
Mr. Victor Nakas, 

Washington, DC, Branch Manager of the Lithuanian Information Center 
Wednesday, Feb. 21, 1990 
7:00pm 

Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 
Panel Discussion: 
"Creating a Democracy in Hungary" 
Mr. Miklos Simon, Graduate Student Mr. Gabor Forrai, Graduate Student Ms. Katalin Fabian, Graduate Student Prof. Theodore B. lvanus, Professor Emeritus, Govt. and lnt'l Studies 
F. E. E. D. 
.E. 
Fabulous Eastern European Dinner: Meal and Entertainment-Dinner and Polka Dance! 
Saturday, February 24, 1990 6:30pm North Dining Hall, North Wing • Reservations Required: Call 239 -7668 • 
Thursday, Feh 22, 1990 
7:00pm 

Mongomery 'lbe*r, LaFortune Student Center 
Panel Discussion: 

"Solidarity and the Future of Poland: After the Euphoria" 
Prof. Andrzej Walitcki, 
O'Neil Chairman, History Mr. Marek Szopsky, Graduate Student Prof. Jacek K. Furdyna, 
Professor, Physics 
Prof. Donald T. Critchlow, 
Associate Professor, History 
TBA 
Panel Discussion/Follow Up: 
''What do the issues in Eastern Europe mean to students as members of the ND community, 
and as citizens of a nation?" 
Observer, Scholastic, 
Common Sense, Dialogue reporte'rs who covered the events (Yes, undergrads!) 
AOWORKS 

--~--------~-------------­
Business
Monday, February 19, 1990 page 9 
Drexel fires workers, Joint Ventures
gives slim severances 
Most Joint ventures in Eastern Europe are in sales and service. Of the 200·plus 
NEW YORK (AP) -Drexel vaded Manhattan." 
EASTERN EUROPE S 

manufacturing investments abroad in the last 
Burnham Lambert Inc. fired Drexel spokesman Steven 
two years, only a handful were in an East
thousands of workers Friday Anreder said an unspecified 
European country outside the Soviet Union. 
Cllu.EtiE

and doled out slim severance number of employees -from packages as the Wall Street investment bankers to secre­wonder of the 1980s headed taries -would remain tem­
U.S. joint ventures in Eastern Europe as of 1989: 
Czech-East
into oblivion. porarily as Drexel transfers 
Bulgaria Hungary Poland Romania 
oslovakia Germany
The bulk of Drexel's 5,300 some business to other firms 
employees were turned loose and liquidates its portfolio of 
5 II 2 II 0 II 100 II 60 II 0 
into a slumping securities in­junk bonds and other securities. dustry that already has wit­Under a hastily prepared sev­nessed tens of thousands of erance plan, employees will re­
Here are major U.S. joint ventures announced in the last two years: 
layoffs since the 1987 stock ceive a maximum of 24 weeks' 
r:J GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. II!:) SYBRON CORP. 
market crash. pay for 15 or more years of 
..Product: Light bulbs ~ Product: Microscope slides 
Drexel workers, some tearful, completed service. The scale 
-City: Budapest, Hungary City: Budapest. Hungary 
carried boxes and wheeled begins at three weeks' pay for 
Status: Pending Status: Produc1ion in 
shopping carts filled with com­salaried workers with one year 
March 1990 

puter equipment bought at a of service and two weeks' for discount from the firm as they unsalaried workers, Anreder 
111r~ CHRONAR CORP. f3 SCHWINN BICYCLE CO. 
U~[j Product: Solar panels ra1 Product: Bicycles 
left the headquarters in lower said. 
... City: Split, Yugoslavia ~ City: Budapest, Hungary 
Manhattan. 
Status: Production started Status: Production started 
Drexel's parent company filed The payments are coming out 
spring 1989 in 1989
for protection from creditors of the firm's remaining assets, 
zunder Chapter 11 of federal which are not covered by the 
~ CURTIS INSTRUMENTS INC. IZ] GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES 
bankruptcy law Tuesday when parent's bankruptcy filing. 
~ Product: Instruments and I:::::LI CORP.
it defaulted on some debt and "We deeply regret this short 
controls for battery-powered Product: Glass 
banks refused to lend money. notice of termination to you, 
industrial vehicles and (windshields, windows, 
The company then began liqui­but we made Herculean efforts 
golf carts furniture)
dating its businesses, including to obtain additional capital, 
City: Sofia, Bulgaria (first City: Oroshaza, Hungary 
the once-powerful securities which we believed would be 
U.S. manufacturing joint Status: Plant under 
firm. available, and anticipated a re­
venture in Bulgaria) construction; produc1ion 
Status: Produc1ion in 1990 expected in 1991
financing of our debt obliga­
"It's a beautiful day, isn't it?" tions as has been done in the 


'Dakota' cigarette takes on Marlboro 
•··· WASHINGTON (AP) She's young, she cruises, she's white, she thinks traq­tor pulls are cooL She's just what the R.J. Reynolds To· bacco Co. is looking for. 

A marketing plan to test a new brand of cigarettes, called ''Dakota," targets women 18 to 20 who like to watch "Roseanne" and evening soap operas and who hope to get married in their early twenties, The Washington Post reported Saturday. 
Until · that trip to the church, this ideal smoker is content to spend her free time "with her boyfriend doing whatever he is doing," according to the newspaper, which obtained the com­paJ1y's marketing proposals for the cigarette. 
"Different products are designed to different cate· 

one Drexel executive said, past," the letter said. Department AP/Cynthia Greer 
gories of consumers," the pointing to a drizzly, gray sky. "Unfortunately, this did not oc­
company said in a statement. "It's like the day King Kong in-cur. 
"Dakota is no different. It is 
not a male brand or a female 
brand.'' 

The marketing studies say
Restructuring to boost stock prices in the'90s 
Dakota is to "replace Marl· boro as the brand of choice
structuring by selling most of its buyback in October. They streamlining their businesses, 
among female smokers J8·
NEW YORK (AP) -With the restaurants and buying back immediately bid the computer trying to improve their profits 
24.'' ... expansionist 1980s behind most more stock, company officials giant's shares up $2.37 1/2 to and, consequently, the price of 
The marketing plan ob­
U.S. companies and tl;w leaner said enhancing shareholder $104.12 1/2. IBM is currently stock. If they decide to repur­tained by the Post draws thls
and more conservative '90s value -Wall Street's catch­trading at about that level. chase stock, the price often profile of the preferred
under way, corporate re­word for raising the firm's stock How much a restructuring goes up under the law of supply Dakota smoker:structuring may well become price -was among their goals. affects a company's stock price and demand. 
•Education: High school, more popular as a way to in­It doesn't always work, and depends on a number of fac­But some firms are forced but no more. 
crease the price of a firm's when it does, it can take time. tors, including the kind of move into restructuring by the threat •Employnlent: "Workis a
stock. The day the Marriott restruc­undertaken, how much money of hostile takeover attempts. 
job, not a career."

Junk bond financing is just turing was announced, the is involved and whether the The buyout binge may be over, •Interests: "Partying withabout on hold and fewer company's stock fell $1 a share shares themselves are directly but a few companies have be­friends, dancing, going·· to
takeovers are getting done, so to $33.62 1/2. involved, as in a buyback. Con­come the targets of investors clubs and bats; cruising:
it's harder for companies to Marriott's shares have traded ditions on Wall Street are also a who want a better return on boost their stock prices by lower since then, but the com­variable. their holdings -in other watching television; shop­ping at the mall.''
making acquisitions. But buying pany has been subject to the There is nothing new about words, a higher stock price. 
• Live Entertainment:back shares, divesting un­same· doldrums that have restructurings, but analysts 
"Drag races; motocross,derperforming units or taking eroded prices for most issues have predicted there will be Georgia Gulf Corp. had to motorcycle races; hot rod
other restructuring steps is an on Wall Street this year. more of them in the coming formulate a recapitalization shows; cycle shows; traCtoreasier and sometimes cheaper Investors were more months and years now that the plan to try to fend off Texas in­alternative. enthused when International takeover boom has ended. vestor Harold Simmons, who pulls,. monster trucks; wrestling, tough man compe­When Marriott Corp. an­Business Machines Corp. Companies are now working holds about 9 percent of the titions;"nounced in December it was re-announced a $1 billion stock from within, rearranging and chemical company's stock. 
Banks battle credit unions as the financial war continues 
As if the savings and _ financial services for upper-income households. This proverbial extra mile ... Banks can't or won't match us." loan fiasco had not LOUIS Rukeyer left community banks holding the bag for low-income Powers, whose institution primarily serves AT&T and cause? enough turmoil in Tribune Media earners, the ABA maintains. Bell Laboratory employees, claims that studies show Amencan finance, hunker The banking lobby cites a new study showing that credit-union members generally are more satisfied with down now for a new Services 42.2 percent of consumer loans made by credit unions the service they receive than are customers of shootout between the----------­went to households earning $40, 000 or more and 11.8 commercial and thrift institutions. banks and the credit unions. percent to those in $10,000 to $20,000 bracket. In As for the critical question of financial safety, so 
The key to the confrontation is the explosive growth contrast, community banks provided 39.9 percent of obvious in the wake of the S&L collapses, Powers of the nation's more than 15,150 tax-exempt credit such loans to the high-income households and 14.6 maintains that "credit unions are the most solvent, unions, which cater to 59.6 million corporate percent for those in the lo~er bracket. secure industry in the financial community," with most employees, fraternal-organization members, retirees credit unions federally insured up to $100,000 for and workers in most branches of the federal gov­This strong new effort by the bankers to pose as depositors by the National Credit Union Share ernment -including Congress itself. cripples champions of the poor will not go unchallenged Insurance Fund (NCUSIF), which he termed "far and 
With credit union assets increasing by 10 percent a by the credit unions. Contending that as a non-profit away the healthiest of the three federal deposit year, commercial banks and thrift institutions complain industry they are rightfully exempt from taxes, the insurance agencies." that they are losing retail accounts to these nonprofit 8,597 federally chartered credit unions, with the competitors, which often do not charge financial fees to support of their 6,200 state-chartered counterparts, Credit unions, which originated in Germany around their members or require minimum balances on are readying a vigorous counterattack. 1879 and took root in thls country in 1915, have seen interest-bearing accounts. Nor is it going to be quite the "big banks vs. the little their assets mushroom from $53.7 billion 10 years ago 
The now-familiar demand for a "level playing field" is guys" battle that it might first appear. For the credit to $198 billion today. That's still only roughly 23 being voiced in a lobbying campaign spearheaded by unions have such formidable blue-chip members as percent of the nation's banking assets, but with the American Bankers Association (ABA), the trade AT&T, IBM, General Motors, the Navy, the State forecasts of increases to more than $500 billion by organization for some 12,600 U.S. banks. The ABA Department and a powerful new recruit that came 1999, community bankers are worried about what they wants Congress to enact legislation that would tax aboard in 1987, the American Association of Retired see as unfair competition on loan and savings rates. credit unions· at the same 43 percent rate that applies Persons. They note that, in addition to their tax-exempt status, to banks. many smaller credit unions receive other subsidies 
As the bankers see it, the old image of credit unions The crux of the credit unions' argument is that they denied to bankers, such as volunteers workers and free as fringe outfits offering accounts to poorer customers deserve their present special status because they exist or minimum rent. is as out of date as the abacus. The big change came to meet the needs of their members and not to create With so many Americans now enjoying the benefits of when Congress allowed credit unions to offer a dividends for their stockholders. As Thomas Powers, these subsidies, the bankers clearly have their work cut smorgasbord of services such as credit cards, IRA's, Jr., president of First Commonwealth Federal Credit out for them. The coming collision in Congress should certificates of deposit, home mortgages and other Union in Lehigh Valley, PA, put it to me, "We go the be a matter of profit -and interest -to us all. 
-~-­
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, February 19, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regis Coccia  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  .Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  ...Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  ....John Bias•  Systems Mgr  Bernard Brennmkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Eric Bailey  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  ..... Christine Gill  Controller  Anne Lmdner  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers•· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­Icies of the adm1mstrat10n of either Institution. The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the op1nion of the ma1onty of the follow•ng. Ed1tor-1n·Ch1ef. Managing Editor. Executive News Ed1tor. V1ewpomt Ed1tor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor Commentaries. let:ers. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varymg opm1ons on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Exploring world issues boosts our awareness 
Dear Editor: the Soviet Union lacking one of frontation with the seemingly residents or citizens of this ered the past week's events, 
In light of the fantastic events its most industrially and agri­indomitable Communist Party, nation live up to these values is have agreed to lead a discus­occurring in Eastern Europe, culturally productive territo­led by a military general. a legitimate question we should sion addressing what the issues our student government has ries. Martial law was imposed at ask ourselves-especially when in Eastern Europe mean to us decided to sponsor an Eastern The U.S. will have to walk a that time, but as in Hungary, the peoples of Eastern Europe as members of the Notre Dame European Week as part of its ·fine line not to offend Moscow, brute force buckled at the are ready to fight and go community and as citizens of a World Awareness Series. It will while Moscow will need to find knees under the weight of the through the terrible hardships nation. This panel discussion's occur from Feb. 19 through a way of keeping Lithuania un­people's wilL just to have a chance to live by time and place will be an­Feb. 24. It is time for Notre der its thumb without the use Now, Solidarity has a new these values. The people in nounced soon. There will be Dame to reflect upon and dis­of military force. A most im­mission as does the rest of Sofia, Bulgaria did not chant panel discussions each night cuss the events and issues in portant fact one should re­Poland. Many Eastern "USA" to rekindle memories of this week on all the topics in Eastern Europe. member while going to this lec­European nations look for a hockey game. this letter. 
"USA, USA, U-S-A!" echoes in ture is that, unlike the rest of guidance from Poland, where Notre Dame's philosophy has Give yourself a chance to sit the memories of many Eastern Europe, not one drop the current public struggles for its own set of values. The same back and think. not about some Americans as a proud remem­of blood has been spilled in self-determination all started. question should be posed to the metaphysical principle or eso­brance of the U.S. Hockey Lithuania's quest for indepen­Most of us at Notre Dame entire Notre Dame community teric doctrine, but about what Team's glorious victory over dence. Victor Nakas, have genealogies, which have in the context of the NO philos­is going on in the world, what the Soviets in the 1980 Winter Washington, D.C. Bureau Chief their roots in a country other ophy, the values it cherishes. is making history, and where Olympiad. On Feb. 10, this of the Lithuanian Information than the United States. This The scenes from Eastern you stand in these historic same exaltation thundered Center will speak on the country in which we now live Europe certainly make one times. through the streets of Sofia. prospects for independence in has become the symbol for cer­appreciate the conditions in Gailius Drangelis Bulgaria, greeting U.S. Lithuania. tain values espoused by peoples which we live. Assistant Commissioner Secretary of State James Baker Hungarians proved to the around the world, especially in The reporters of Common Intellectual Life Committee 
III. But the circumstances are world that fighting for one's Eastern Europe. Sense, Dialogue, The Observer. Student Government obviously different. convictions in freedom and hu­Whether or not we as and Scholastic, who have cov-Feb. 15, 1990 
The cracks in the Iron man rights is not a vain strug­Curtain are as wide· as those of gle in the face of oppression 
U.S. intervenes for the wrong reasons 
the defunct Berlin Wall. Such and brute force. In 1956. 
Dear Editor: replace them with puppets. that a leader with which the U.S.
well-cultivated symbols of op­Soviet tanks rolled through the I am always amazed, as well it is absurd to claim such a might feel comfortable.
pression have seemingly become streets of Budapest and as frightened, when I see a let­thing. While Endara may not be In connection with thP
anachronisms in a fortnight. squashed the Hungarian peo­
ter such as Michael Gaffney's a puppet, the fact is that the Panama Canal. it is true thatConventions have lost their ples' quest for freedom. Given (The Observer, Feb. 6). The to­U.S. contacted him just before there is a dause in there aboutmeaning; onP which has lost all the present developments in tal disregard of facts and the the invasion and told him that intervention. However. it cer­credibility is that of a forever Hungary (let alone the rest of way he upholds U.S. self-righ­it was invading-whether he tainly does not say anythingdivided Germany. The definition East Europe), it is safe to say teousness prompts me to cor­liked it or not-and asked him about intPrvening anytime theof Europe in liPu of a reunited that the Soviets won the battle rect some of the misinforma­if he was interested in joining U.S. feels like it, as Mr. GaffnpyGermany will be one of the in 1956, but have ultimately tion and distortion he is propa­and supporting the action. seems to think. This kind of
topics addressed by our lost the war in 1990. 
gating. First, whether the inva­Apparently, he was not too thinking can only come frompanelists. Hungarians havp begun a new sion was raeist or not has happy about the rircumstanres. ac!:Pptan l'P of tlw MonroeThP Baltk Statns (Lithuania. struggiP. 
nothing to do with Gen. but did not feel lw had much of Doctrine and ManifHst Destiny.
l.ativia, and Estonia! offer an Now, their challenge lies in a Powell's race. I hardly think a choice. unilaterally proclaimed by tlwintriguing challenge to the complete restructuring of their that tokenism at the upper Regarding South Africa, I U.S. in the last century andUnited States as well as the country. This is a formidable levels of power can say any­would say that if the U.S. is go­duly followed by every U.S.
Soviet Union. Recognized as an task. which is not aided by the thing about this particular sit­ing to intervene anywhere­administration since then, asoccupied territory by the U.S.. fifty years of economic, social, uation. which I do not think it should­the U.S. has repeatedlyLithuania keeps its own em­and political stagnation under Second, the reasons the U.S. the fact that the system is in­intervened in, stolen territorybassy in Washington and nu­a corrupt government's thumb. 
invaded Panama had nothing to credibly oppressive and inhu­from. and generally tried tomerous consulates. with full Solidarity became a house­do with supporting a duly mane should be the guide more dominate Latin America. 
diplomatic status, throughout -hold name in the early 1980's. 
elected government. The U.S. than the fact that the South Kurt Millsthe country. If it gains inde­The entire world was left spell­has helped to undermine or African government has not al­Graduate studentpendence, it will certainly look bound by the courage of overthrow so many govern­lowed the majority to engage in International Peace Studies toward Washington for eco­heroes, such as Lech Walesa, ments-elected and not-and to Western-style voting to choose Feb. 6, 1990nomic assistance, and will leave who led their union into a con-
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IA/et..L, I.AIJI&S ANOG&NT5 OF THe NOWMWIA,IAJ&'Ve /?ON/3 


'Do not conceive that fine 
IT! ltf/f.'vt: OU/3RM!Nt0 CON­

clothes make fine men, any more
atJ5/VUY THAT SUF-esTUM W& fl3Cl-GOOO ABOlfT 1'3 A 50QAL-VAaJN/3 THAT f!UING GOO[) ABOUT 
than fine feathers make fine 
&MPOWei<S US TO l-IV/3 

birds. A plain, genteel dress is
YOU~-' ""'-~ · 
/?135PON5/BL-Yl 

more admired, obtains more
RJ6H?; GANG 2 "" 
credit in the eyes of the judicious and sensible.' 
George Washington (1732-1799) 

Accent
Monday, February 19, 1990 page 11 
I 
I 
j I 
Rap music performers 

Young MC
establish the~mselves 
Run-DMc 
DAVID BAUDER ized the technique of associated press writer "sampling" 9ld sounds in new 
Rap music has come a long music. · way from the days of parties in Rap also has emphasized dif­the South Bronx, when disc ferences -political, racial, jockeys manipulated records in musical and generational ­a frantic competition to see still alive in music and society who could keep people on the as a whole. dance floor the longest. Hap technicians quickly 


Now it seems rap is every­learned to mine old records for where, and is firmly established new sounds. Now it's a popular as a music category at the an­practice. Janet Jackson's hit, nual Grammy Awards, which "Rhythm Nation," uses a pas­will be held Wednesday, Feb. sage directly lifted from an old 
21. Sly and the Family Stone 
Rappers sell millions of record. Jailed soul star James records, but their names and Brown has reached a whole music are as bewildering to a new generation of listeners be­generation of Americans over cause of old passages age 21 as John, Paul, George "sampled" in new rap songs, and Ringo were more than 25 says LL Cool J. years ago. Some artists are flattered by 
It's a veritable alphabet soup the new attention, others so musical form right now." 1 on the Billboard singles tempt to find new stars. of stars. There's LL Cool J and angry they launch lawsuits. Rap and rock have forged an charts because some Top 40 But radio resistance hasn't Kool Moe Dee. There's NWA, Many pop music fans say rap interesting alliance. They were radio stations won't play rap. stopped rap from seeping into Heavy D, Ice-T and Run-DMC. has claimed the mantle of inno­thought to be contrary camps, No rap single has ever reached mainstream culture. 
There's Young MC and MC Lyte, vation that rock music earned until Run-DMC's hugely influen­No. 1 on the Billboard pop Advertisers looking for a OJ Jazzy Jeff and D-Nice. in the 1960s. tial remake of Aerosmith's charts. youthful market know rap sells. 
There's Salt 'n' Pepa, Flavor One fan is 38-year-old "Walk This Way" broke down Occasional violence at rap Rap was incorporated into the Flav and the Fat Boys. William Adler. He's admittedly barriers in 1987. concerts has given communities work of several Top 40 musi­"The groove is good. You can a little biased, since his job at High ratings for MTV's "Yo! jitters and caused some cancel­cians through the 1980s, from 
dance to it," said LL Cool J, up­Rush Artists Management in­MTV Raps!" show also indicate lations. Rappers say it's not the Blondie's "Rapture" in 1980 to dating the line teenagers have vollves steering the careers of that rap is not just music for music that causes trouble, but Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the used to praise records on rap artists such as Public black teenagers. some fans who are gang mem­Fire" in 1989. 
"American Bandstand" since Enemy and LL Cool J. The Grammys created a new bers. 
"There's nothing wrong with before he was born. "To me, it's the most thrilling category last year to honor rap Some rappers are worried that," LL Cool J said of the Like Bob Dylan in the 1960s, rock 'n' roll being made today," music. But several of its stars about too much rap, not too lit­,.competition with Joel, subur­rap has opened the door to Adler said. "Do I want a big boycotted the awards because tle. They wonder if rap will go ban Long Island's favorite many artists who aren't con­beat? It's there. Do I want re­the rap Grammy wasn't pre­the way of disco and collapse white son. "I like it. That justventional singers but have bellion? It's there. Do I want sented on prime-time television. under the weight of too many shows that people are openingsomething to say. Because of wit, do I want sex, do I want Also, although Tone Loc's sly mediocre records. Hussell 

rap, the beat has overshadowed homage to sex, "Wild Thing," Simmons, founder of Def Jam up. If an artist like Billy Joel 
social engagement, do I want does something like that, the melody as the primary ele­nonsense? All there. And it de­last year became the biggest­Records, complains that major maybe people will listen to a lit­
ment in many pop songs. To the livers it to me in greater mea­selling single since "We Are the record labels are signing too chagrin of many, rap popular-sure than any other comparable World,'.' it never made it to No. many bad rap acts in their at-tle guy like LL Cool J.'' 
'True Blue' 


Joe Bucolo New York's landmarks into its Casey (Grant Show) is a storylines. One episode presents ~rash young cop from Malibu.
To Be Continued 

a bomb exploding aboard a Jessy Haley (Ally Walker) is a ferry in New York Harbor. caring girl who dedicates her­Another plot utilizes the Statue self to the first aid needs of the 
"Hill Street Blues,'' the com­of Liberty during its climactic force. Lt. Bill Triplet (Beau pelling story of "Chicago's scene. Starr) is a hot-headed officer finest," will probably go down The storylines of "True Blue" who takes his job very seriously in television history as one of are, unfortunately, nothing and views each criminal's ac­TV's greatest police series. It new. There are bombs going off tion as a personal vendetta was only a matter of time be­in children's hospitals and against him. These characters fore New York's P.O. received teens hanging from tall build­are what makes the show a hit. equal coverage. They are "True ings' drainpipes. Fans of The writers deserve some Blue." "CHIPS" may recognize the sit­praise as well. While they need 
NBC presents "True Blue" on uations immediately. a jump start of creativity to Fridays at 9 p.m. opposite The beauty of the show comes plan some totally new predica­CBS's "Dallas" and ABC's from the manner in which these ments for their characters, the "Perfect Strangers" and "Just familiar storylines are told. writers do an outstanding job the Ten of Us." As one might Each plot adds an aura of mys­with dialogue. Witty remarks have guessed, the show stars a tery and intrigue unsurpassed and in-depth conversation cast of excellent actors as by most cop shows. The among the "extra" characters members of New York City's episodes unravel and move necessary to the plot help view­police department. Together, quickly, helping to disguise the ers feel as if they're seeing one this band struggles to maintain cliche plot with action and sub­hour of real people's lives. law and order in a city that plots. "True Blue" is a great show. seems to be a bomb waiting to Another attribute of the show Original situations would make explode. is the d·epth of the characters. it better; however, it seems to 
-
As "Hill Street" left no doubt Each has his own personality, survive through its creative in viewers' mind that the show and the show focuses mainly on methods of storytelling~ NBC took place in Chicago, "True a few of the show's regulars presents its true colors with Blue" makes every effort to put each week. "True Blue." 



r 
I I page 12____________________________________________~Th~e~O~b~se~N~er~-------------------------------=M~o~nd~a~y~,~F~e~br~u~a~ry~1~9~,~1~9~9~0 
How the Associated Press' top teams fared Sunday: ­
1. Kansas (25-2) did not play. Next: at Colorado, Wednesday.
Smith, Tigers set to retake No.1 
Doug Smith's heroics put Missouri in position to reclaim its No. 1 ranking. But coach Norm Stewart couldn't care less. 
"This time of season, the top ranking doesn't mean ·any­thing," Stewart said after Smith's three-point play with 40 seconds left gave the Tigers a 92-90 victory over No. 11 Ok­lahoma on Sunday. 
"If somebody else wants it, they can have it. If we can, we'll mail it to them." 
Smith sat out much of the first half with foul trouble, but dominated in the final eight minutes. when he got 11 of his 23 points. He also had 14 re­bounds, including one after Ok­lahoma had three shots at tying the game in a frantic final 10 seconds. 
That put Missouri, which beat top-ranked Kansas Tuesday at Lawrrmce, in position to regain the top spot it held for three weeks earlier this season. 
In other games Sunday involving ranked teams, No. 9 LSU beat Vanderbilt 121-108; No. 16 Oregon St. 83, 
2. Missouri (24-2) beat No. 11 Oklahoma 92-90. Next: vs. Iowa
Washington St. 63 and Ten) hit a free throw to break a 
$tate, Wednesday. 
Stanford beat No. 23 UCLA 70-61-all tie. His second shot spun 
3. Georgetown (20-3) did not play. Next: vs. No. 24 St. John's,

69. out, but Jackson tipped it in 
Wednesday.

In Saturday games, it was from the right side to end a 
4. Syracuse (18-5) did not play. Next: vs. Boston College, Tuesday. 
Kansas 94, Nebraska 67; No. 3 four-game Michigan winning 
5. Michigan (19-5) lost to Ohio State 64-61. Next: vs. Northwestern,
Georgetown 68, Seton Hall 60; streak and drop the Wolverines 
Saturday.

Notre Dame 66, No. 4 Syracuse to 19-5 and 9-4. 
6. Duke (22-4) beat Wake Forest 71-56. Next: at North carolina State,
65; No. 8 Arkansas 77, SMU No.6 Duke 71, 
Wednesday.

46, and No. 10 Connecticut 89, Wake Forest 56 
7. UNLV (22-4) beat No. 20 Arizona 95-87. Next: at UC Irvine,
Boston College 67. Robert Brickey scored 10 of 
Thursday.

No. 12 Purdue beat Wisconsin his 14 points in the first half as 
8. Arkansas (21-4) did not play. Next: vs. Texas A&M, Wednesday.
62-55; it was No. 13 Georgia Duke handed Wake Forest its 
9. LSU (20-5) beat Vanderbilt 121-108. Next: vs. Alabama,
Tech 95, North Carolina State 13th straight Atlantic Coast 
Wednesday.

92 in double overtime; No. 21 Conference loss. The Blue Devils 
10. Connecticut (22-4) did not play. Next: vs. Providence, Monday. 
Michigan St. 70, No. 15 Illinois (22-4, 9-2) jumped to an 18­
11. Oklahoma (19-4) lost to No.2 Missouri 92-90. Next: at Nebraska,
63; No. 17 Minnesota 90, point lead in the game's first 10 
Wednesday.

Northwestern 72, and No. 18 minutes and extended the lead 
12. Purdue (18-4) did not play. Next: vs. Indiana, Monday.
Louisville 72, Virginia 56. to as much as 23. 
13. Georgia Tech (19-4) did not play. Next: vs. Virginia, Thursday. 
No.7 UNLV 95,
Ohio St. 64, 
14. La Salle (22-1) beat Fairfield 72-49. Next: at Loyola, Md., Tuesday.
No. 20 Arizona 87
No. 5 Michigan 61 
15, Illinois (18-6) did not play. Next: vs. No. 12 Purdue, Wednesday.
Larry Johnson scored 17 of 
16. Oregon State (19-4) beat Washington State 83-63. Next: vs.
Jim Jackson scored 16 points, his 26 points in the second half, 
Southern california, Thursday. 
including a key tip-in off a hitting three straight late bas­
17. Minnesota (17-6) did not play. Next: vs. Wisconsin, Thursday. 
missed free throw with 12 sec­kets to put the game away for 
18. Louisville (20-5) did not play. Next: at Memphis State, Tuesday.
onds left, as the Buckeyes won UNLV. The Rebels never trailed 
19. Loyola Marymount (20.5) did not play. Next: vs. San Diego, Friday.
for the lOth time in 12 home and led by as many as 15 points 
20. Arizona (17-5) lost to No.7 UNLV 95-87. Next: at California,
games. Neither team led by midway through the second 
Wednesday.

more than four in the second half. But the Runnin' Rebels 
21. Michigan State (21·5) did not play. Next: vs.lndiana, Feb. 25.
half, and there were 15 lead were never able to shake Ari­
22. Xavier, Ohio (21-2) did not play. Next: at Detroit, Thursday. 
changes and 13 ties, the last zona, which closed to 77-70 
with 14 seconds left. Then Mark Baker State (13-10, 7-6 in 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

I 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!!! 
Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1.400 Cost: Zero Investment 

Campus organizations, clubs, 
frats, sororities call OCMC: 
-· 
1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-84 72, ext. 10 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

EXPERT TYPING $3/PG 291-3829 
Attention Class of 93' The FCC is sponsoring aT-shirt design contest. Present entries to your FCC dorm rep. Prize: $10.00 in quarters and one free T-shirt. Deadline: Next Wed,21. 
?? Call Joe Wilson 
X1802 DanWatter 
X 1061 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies. Cards. Laser Quality For Papers. Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL 

YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 289-1743. 
For a hot tip on where to find a good time •• Call647·0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events Hotline 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! An antique ring with a green square stone; lost on Feb. 14 possibly in south dining hall. Great sentimental value. REWARD I Call Deb at x3829 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET W\ ND ID AND NY LICENSE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA X1268. IrS 3 WEEKS TO MY 21ST 1111111!11 
··­
Found: Men's ring outside South Dining Hall. Call David X. 3233 

MISSING 
WHcever took my walkman from the SMC dining hall could you please return it. It was a gift, please 
just tum it into dining hall lost and 
found and no questions will be 
asked Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. 
Dark blue, with red pinstripe. If you don't want me to go to a 2nd interview in my boxers, call Tom at 234-g728. Reward 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and 
unskilled. Apply from home. For 
information Call: (615) 779-5507 
Ext. R-200. 
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B­340. 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. 
For casting info. Call (615) 779­7111 Ext. T-1481. 
ATIENTION · EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602· 838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 

ND SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Will pay good money for Football, Basketball pictures call Tom@ 2185 
HELP I I need a ride to Ft.Wayne Thurs. evening(2·22) or Fri morning(2-23). Julie 3789 
Summer job interviews · Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000­$8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal­oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
20. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
RIDE NEEded TO nEW jERSEy.4a GirL&hERbroTher#2845502 
[ FORSALE 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Round-trip Airfare anywhere 
in Continental U.S. $100 Call #3457 for more info. 

23. UCLA (16-7) lost to Stanford 70-69. Next: at Oregon, Thursday.
with five minutes left before 
24. St. John's (20-7) did not play. Next: at No.3 Georgetown. 
of Ohio Johnson scored on three 
25. New Mexico State (21-3) did not play. Next: vs. Utah State.
the Big straight possessions. 
ATIENTION FEMALE TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOR SALE: Spring Break plane ticket to Ft. Lauderdale. Best Offer call Molly at 234-5410 
NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call ND Dept. of Comm. &Theatre 239-7054 
TOWf\ffiOUSC:S FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood,dishwasher CALL 232 -8256 
TICKETS 

Help! I need 2 student tickets and oneGA for the Georgia Teeh game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO ND­
MIZZOU GAME ON MARCH 3. 
CALL COLLECT 314-449·7618 
EVENINGS. 
WANTED 3 MISSOURI TICKETS 277-9750 
4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs for sale.272·6306 
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!! I! WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 
$NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim xt 646 
•••***•••"'* •* • * • • • • ** ***Desparatel y need two Missouri B-ball tickets. Call Kristen at #2670 
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x 233·6582 
I need some Georgia Tech tickets for my little brothers .. Piease call Kelly at '4985 
Need 4 Mizzou Tix-GAorSTU 
$$$$$Call 277-7260$$$$$$ 
Mom & Dad are coming & they want tix to Missouri & G Tech Call Jeff X3555 

Parrot Heads Forever Ill 
Congratulations on 
-a perfect season Stanford A Basketball! 

Good luck in the playoffs! 
The Observer accepts classifieds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3·30 p.m at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p m. at the Samt Marys office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds 1s 3 p.m. All classil1eds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day 1ncludrng spaces 
Jeanne and Meg-
Could you be like MORE Happy Jack? If only I had no classes and we could see eacn other 
sometime I Let's go to Chicago soon! Love, the Greek 
PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. 
HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­8445. 
Welcome home Annie!!!!!!!!! 
OTHE COPY SHOP in LaFortuneO Copies'Printing'Binding'Fax Resumes'Laminating Transparencies & MORE 
Kevin McShane and Dan, To my two favorite Valentines (to each other, that is), Happy Valentine's Day a little late. Bridget's was fun, too bad you bombed out on the "Love Analyzer" Dan. Better luck next time! Kev, glad I finally met you. stop by sometime--we're practically related you know. Later guys! 
Love, Jeanne 

P.S. Bet you thought I wouldn't go through with this. 
Stevey Megargee, Thanx for the Valentine. It was my only one and it kept me from falling into the slumps of depression. See you Monday! Happy late 
Valentine's Day! Love, Me 
P.S. I know who you really want to be your Valentine!!!!! 
Grand Opening Feb. 23 -at Grace Hall The COFFEEHOUSE 
Mat,Tito,fellow cold miser, You are a good roomate but you stink. Stop playing Led Zepplin because AC/DC is gooder. You and Greg can gain membership to the Gypsy Road Crew if you come to Seattle! No more gals before except sometimes. AC/DC rules. Your Freind and Love, 
Bill Hall Oh yeah, Happy Birthday, dude. 
hi ag 

RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 
deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262·1581. 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 
Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening spedals. 234-3541 'MO' 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) ROME(JUNEi7-JUL Y16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT., FR .. SWITZ., GER., ENG., & ITALY. COURSES IN ART, BIO., BUEC, HIST., IT., SOC. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS STUDENTS, TEACHERS,& PIZZA. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK AT 284·4460 OR 272-3726. 
ADOPTION 
Physician and wife, happily 
married for ten years, would dearly 
love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the !Y.Jst educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded message. (219) 625·4205. 
SOPHOMORES !!! 
Are you ready for Advanced 
Registration on March 30th ? Have you selected your major? 
If you answered no, consider registering for the CAREER/ MAJOR DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP starting the week of February 19th at the University Counseling Center. Call 239-7336 to register or for more information. 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
Tired of being your uwn worst critic? If so, join our group focusing on modifying counter-productive self criticism. 
The 1st of six meetings will begin on February 20th, and continue through April3rd. We will meet from 7:00-9:00p.m. in room 316 at the University Counseling Center. 
For more information, please contact BRYAN or ANTOINELL at 239-7336. 
PEGGY ABOOD IS 20 TODAYIIIIIIIII HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY LENA!! WISH HER ONE AT 284-40231111 
TO MY FAVORITE GEO MAJOR: Happy anniversary! Was it your magnetic personality or ...?? 
Love, Squirrel Bait 
SUMMER JOBS COUNSELORS· BOYS CAMP, W.MASSJGIRLS CAMP. MAIN£ TOP SALARY, RMIBD/lAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST lOVE KIOS AND HAVE SKILL IN ONE OFT HE FCX.LOWING ACTIVITIES ARCHERY ARTS&CRAFTS, BASEBALl. BASKETBALL,BICYCLING. CHEERLEAD lNG, DANCE, DRAMA. ORUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL. GOLF. GUITAR, GYMNASTICS. HOCKEY. HORSEBACK, KARATE lACROSSE, NATURE, NURSES. PHOTOGRAPHY. PIANO, RAOIO, ROCKETRY, ROPES. SAILBOARDING SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TENNIS. TRACK. W S I . WATERSKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD STOP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2JRD FROM 11 :OOM~-6:00PM IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT UNION, DOOLEY ROOM IN3/) 
Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!!! Love your busy bees! 
To those of you who made my 22nd b-day a real SCREAM: Can I Just Tell You? You are MOST EXCELLENT!! !I I love ya dudes. KP. 
Thank you St. Jude for request granted. Kathy Thomas. 
I need a ride to Daytona for Spring 
Break Colin x4057 I NEED A RIDE TO EASTERN PENNSILVANIA FOR 3-10 BREAK steve· 1723 
OBSERVER LAME DUCKS! Only 15 more issues. But who's counting? 
Pat B. Scott K, Dave N, John M; Thanks for a great time Sat. nile at the dance & that "family establishment!" We need to get together soon to finish off the last case. You guys are really great but "I can't beleive we broke the f-ing lamp!!" LOVE. Mary Pat, Nancy, Alison, Monica 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE NO MORE FAKE I.D.s THAT LOOK NOTHING LIKE 
YOU!! HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY KAT!! LOVE... MO, DO, STIEN, COL, FRAGGS. MEGO, JULES. KEL.. 
AUGUST A AUGUST A AUGUST A AUGUSTA AUGUSTA AUGUSTA 
THE BRADY BUNCH 
GENERATION WEEK BEGINS TODAY: RERUNS!!!! in the lounge, 7:30. TICKETS FOR SATURDAY FESl' ON SALE. BUY YOURS TODAY!!! 
Brady Bunch Generation admit it you are part of it! II! 
Buy your tixlduring events in AUGUSTA starting todayll 
5$$5$$$5$$ includes the dancing the prizes, and oh yeah, you have to be 21, so you figure out what else is going to be there!! 
LOOK FOR US IN LeMANs Tues. and Wed. to buy your tix questions\feellike talking to someone cute: call Nancy@5309 
Monday, February 19, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Chambers scores 56 in Suns' win 
OAKLAND (AP) -Tom Chambers scored a team­record 56 points Sunday and the Phoenix Suns ended Golden State's franchise-record 15­game home winning streak, 131-113 over the Warriors. 
Chambers, whose previous career-high was 46 points, scored 40 in the first half, the most ever allowed by the War­riors. Wilt Chamberlain held the previous high in a half against Warriors with 36 for Philadelphia on March 3, 1966. 
Chambers made his first 10 shots from the field and fin­ished 19-for-29. He made 16 of 19 foul shots. Karl Malone's 61 points for Utah against Mil­waukee on Jan. 27 were the most in the NBA this season. 
The Suns won their fifth straight game, including a 135­114 victory over Golden State at Phoenix on Friday. 
The Warriors, charged with seven technical fouls, trailed in the second quarter 68-39 ­with Chambers having 38 points at that time. 
Bulls 111, Bucks 88 
Michael Jordan scored 39 points and the Chicago Bulls went on a 18-0 run in the fourth quarter, holding Mil­waukee scoreless for more than seven minutes and routing the Bucks 111-88. 
Horace Grant added 18 points, Scottie Pippen 16 and Stacey King 14 for the Bulls, who beat the Bucks for the ninth time in the last 10 meet­ings. 
Jordan scored 18 points in the third quarter and the Bulls used an 18-t burst over the fi­nal four minutes to take an 83­74lead 
Lakers 116, Celtics 110 
Magic Johnson scored 12 of his 30 points in the third quar­ter and Byron Scott added eight of his 24 during a 2:47 span of the fourth period as the Los Angeles Lakers completed a two-game season sweep of the Boston Celtics with a 116-110 victory. 
Reggie Lewis paced Boston with 24 points, while Kevin McHale had 21 and Larry Bird and Robert Parish added 20 apiece. James Worthy added 25 for the Lakers. 
Orlando Woolridge tied the score at 98 on a slam dunk with 8:51 to play, and his inter­ception of Bird's pass led to a 3-pointer by Scott. After Scott hit his third 3-pointer of the game to put Los Angeles up by 
~ SENIORS:
r"" 
Be a missioner for one year, ~ teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 
~ 
................. 
mmrl'llll 
~~-················· 
...-m• Find out more from 
I+:.J.itQ••Lw 
Father McDonnell Mon. Feb. 19, Tues. Feb 20, Wed. Feb. 21 9-4pm Center for Social Concerns Contact Mary Ann Roemer 239-5293 
four, Worthy rebounded Dennis Johnson's 18-foot baseline miss and fed Scott with a quick out­let pass for a breakaway slam dunk and a 106-100 lead with 
5:33 left. 
Bullets 116, Pacers 97 
Ledell Eackles scored 13 of his 19 points in the final 16 minutes as the Washington Bullets beat the Indiana Pacers 116-97 in a fight-marred game. 
Bernard King led the Bullets with 27 points in 27 minutes, before being ejected, along with Indiana's Chuck Person, follow­ing a brawl. 
Washington's Jeff Malone and Indiana's Reggie Miller later got into a pushing match and coaches Wes Unseld of the Bullets and Dick Versace of the Pacers argued on the way to the locker room. Seven techni­cal fouls were called in the game. 
SuperSonics 85, 
Hornets 70 

Xavier McDaniel scored 20 points and sparked a third­quarter burst that helped the Seattle SuperSonics to a 85-70 victory over the cold-shooting Charlotte Hornets. 

ters golf title by two strokes. 
Norman finished the four rounds over the Huntingdale course with a 19-under-par to­tal of 273, including a closing round of 68. Faldo, the leader by two strokes going into the final round, had a 72 to finish 

When the Great 
American Dream 
two shots behind in a three-way 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be frm 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in the Great Hall of O'Shag. The fee. is $5. 
Irish Insanity will hold an elections meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre. 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 10:45 p.m. Monday. 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30p.m. Tuesday in 204 O'Shag. 
Students interested in trying out for cheerleader or leprechaun should meet at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the football auditorium. 
Evander Holyfield will meet heavyweight champion James "Buster" Douglas in the fall, forcing Mike Tyson to wait a year for a rematch with the man who took his title, Douglas' manager said Sunday. Holyfield, the top-ranked challenger, and Douglas will fight in September under an agreement manager John Johnson said he reached Saturday with Holyfield's manager, Dan Duva. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 
Nonnantops Faldo in 


Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
272-6702 

Chinese, Vietnamese and 
Australian

American Food 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Australian Greg Norman 
6.329 University Commons 
overcame third-round leader 
South Bend .IN 
Nick Faldo of Britain Sunday to win his sixth Australian Mas­
tie for second with Australian Mike Clayton and American John Morse.

isn't Great 
Norman, who also said Sun­day that he had resigned from the Australian PGA Tour, 
earned $72,000, while Morse, Clayton and Faldo each took

Enough
NOW! 
home $28,000. 

Have you considered? 
American David De Long shot 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
a 70 Sunday to finish two 
strokes back of the second­

WE HAVE 
A one-year program located at Moreau 
place trio at 277 along with

Seminary 81 Notre Dame for college graduates 
Australian Rodger Davis, while

who are seriously interested in exploring a 
Curtis Strange of the United 

vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
States shot a 6 7 to finish at 
280. Norman stumbled badly at 

DELIVERY 
For i•formation: 
the par-5 sixth hole with a double bogey seven, but he re­trieved the two shots with an

Fr. John Conley, CSC 
eagle 3 at the-following hole.

Vocation Director 
The turning point came at the

Box 541 
par-5 14th where Norman 
rolled in a birdie putt to join

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADWORKS 
Faldo at 18 under. 

239·6385 
·--------------------------------------~20% Discount :
:
Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame I TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : 
and St. Mary's campuses during the 
I I following times: 
-------~-----------------------------­
5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Sun. 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
~ 
~ 
~ 
= 
-== == 

Professional Vision 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
Dr. Ronald Snyder 

1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates 

North of McDonald's 277-1161 


page 14 The Observer Monday, February 19, 1990 
'Inspired' Ellis puts the controversy behind him 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor · 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -LaPhonso Ellis ended a harried week with an inspired performance Sat­urday that included a pair of key plays in the final minute. 
Ellis, who led all players with 15 rebounds, grabbed an offen­sive rebound on Elmer Ben­nett's missed jump shot with about 45 seconds left and the Irish trailing 63-62. Ellis man­aged to draw a foul, then made one of two free throws to tie the game. 
"This was one of Ellis' best games on the boards," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "To get 15 against Syracuse ... " 
His most important play came in the final three seconds, when he caught Keith Robin­son's inbounds pass at mid­court, then had the presence of mind to pass up a shot and pass to an open Elmer Bennett while enough time was on the clock for Bennett to shoot. 
Ellis picked up his fourth foul with 11 :07 left in the game. Phelps replaced him with Keith Tower, but put Ellis back in the game just 27 seconds later. 
"We had to take a chance when Phonz got his fourth," Phelps said. "We put Robinson in the center of the zone and Ellis out on the wing." 
Ellis managed to go the rest of the way without fouling out and was a key force in Notre Dame's 68-66 upset of the na­tion's fourth-ranked team. After spending Friday having to field questions about his role in the NCAA investigation of Illi­nois, Ellis took questions more relevant to the game Saturday. 
One reporter asked Ellis if he was surprised to rebound so well against a team like the Or­angemen. 
"I've done a pretty good job rebounding all vear. and I didn't think this game would stop me from rebounding," the 6-foot-9 sophomore forward answered. "Teams do miss shots." 
Syracuse forward came into college with similar credentials to Ellis and came out of Satur­day's game with similar num­bers. 
After scoring just four points (shooting 1-of-5) in the first 
.::.·;· :·. /.... ·.. ·_:· ... . ·: 
half, Owens finished with 14 points and 10 rebounds. Ellis had 11 points to go with his 15 boards. 
Owens also hit a driving left­handed shot with three seconds left that would have been the play of the game were it not for Bennett's heroics. 
"Billy wasn't making anything in the first half, but did a great job in the second of taking what was there," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said . 
Syracuse's loss Saturday was 
its second straight, but Phelps 
had some words after the game 
for anybody criticizing the 
team. 

"If the fans and media leave 
;..:..:: ..;.:· :::}) /.r..:: :· ::·.r:..: :..;-: .. ·: . .. . : ; ... :. . . . 
these kids alone, they could win you a national championship," Phelps said of the Orangemen. "The biggest distraction they have is the fans and the media. The best thing to happen to them is to be shipped west for the (NCAA) regionals, like Hawaii. Then they'd get to Den­ver." 
Notre Dame and Syracuse are the only schools that rank among the top 15 nationally for all-time wins in both basketball and football. 
The Irish are second in foot­ball (683 wins) and eighth in basketball (1,320), while Syra­cuse is 15th in football (550) and 1Oth in basketball ( 1,284 ). 
. ·. . .·: .:. :::::-::<: :: .: . 


f I 
~ 
l I I I I I I I I I I 
f 
I 
I 
t 
f 
I I I I 
I 
I I I I 
~~~------------~------------~. 
Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest -exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF 1WO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-:-tO many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they Will arrive within six weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
~~thwe;f'Airlines..···· 
',notJUSt agreat pr1ce. agreatexper1ence. 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT -with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

1-800-942-AMEX 
speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges• 
~ 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within ?4 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. «:ll990 American Express Travel Reillted Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
---~~~---­
Monday, February 19, 1990 
Orange 
continued from page 20 
"It seems like every weekena we were on national TV and losing," said Bennett, one of five Irish players in double fig­ures with a game-high 18 points. "But we were confident. We knew someday we'd turn it around." 
That day finally arrived Sat­urday despite another poor (41 percent) shooting afternoon. It happened because Notre Dame stuck to a game plan that slowed down the pace and frus­trated the vaunted Orange in­side game. 
Syracuse's "big three" of Coleman, Owens and Stevie Thompson, who came into the game scoring a total of 56 points per game, were held to 44 points Saturday, with each player ending up under his sea­son average. Coleman led the Orange with 16 points, while Owens and Thompson each had 14. 
Keith Robinson scored 13 for 
Notre Dame, Fredrick and 
Monty Williams each had 12 
and Ellis added 11. 
"We had to hold down the transition points and the sec­ond shots, so we packed in a 2­3 zone and a 1-3-1 zone," said Phelps. "We were going to live with them taking the outside shot." 
Notre Dame had tried run­ning with Syracuse last year, and the Orange shot 71 percent and won 99-87 at the Joyce ACC. This time, the Irish usually were killing some time before taking shots. 
"We knew that their number­
one offense is the transition 
game, so we had to play to our 
strengths and not theirs," Ben­
nett said. "We didn't want to 
walk the ball up the court every 
time, but we needed to play a 
little conservatively." 
Syracuse shot just 42 percent, 
and the Orange outside game 
was out of synch for much of 
the game. Freshman point 
guard Michael Edwards best 
symbolized the difficulties on 
offense. hitting just 3-of-16 
shots. 
"He got good shots," said 
Boeheim. "Right now he's 
struggling a little bit. This is 
why we didn't start him earlier 
in the year." 
Neither team led by more than four points in a seesaw first half. and a 10-foot jumper by reserve guard Mike Hopkins with nine seconds left gave Syracuse a 30-29 lead at the in­termission. 
Then the Irish shocked the Carrier Dome crowd by scoring the first 10 points of the second half. Each of Notre Dame's five starters -Fredrick, Robinson, Bennett, Ellis and Williams ­scored a basket during that stretch. Those five players pro­vided all of Notre Dame's points Saturday, a major con­trast to the 11-man rotation the Irish have used for much of the season. 
A 10-foot turnaround jumper by Coleman With 16:37 left gave Syracuse its first points of the second half, but the Irish con­tinued to roll. 
Notre Dame built its lead to 47-34 with less than 12 minutes to go on a pair of Bennett free throws, ending an 18-4 Irish spurt to begin the second half. 
"We didn't come out ready to play," said Owens. "There's no excuse for this." 
Reserve guard Tony Scott fi­nally got the Orange offense in gear, hitting a three-pointer that began a 7-0 Syracuse run. Scott hit three long jumpers, including two three-pointers, in the second half. 
A pair of Bennett free throws ended the Orange rally with the score 49-41, and Notre Dame's lead went somewhere between three and eight points until the game's last three minutes. 
"They bank on getting those long runs," Fredrick said. "Every time they made one, we were able to stop it with a bas­ket or free throw. 
"We played Duke (an 88-76 loss) tough, but when they got on a run, we wouldn't stop it. We were playing 30 good min­utes on the road, but those 10 bad minutes would lose it for us. We thought we'd be all right if we could minimize it to five minutes." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, those bad minutes were the last five of the game. A three­pointer by Coleman cut Notre Dame's lead to 59-57 with 3:02 to play, and Syracuse's full­court press at last started to· affect the Irish. Ellis hit a pair of free throws to make it a four-point advantage, then Thompson answered with a layup. 
The lead dwindled to one when Coleman hit a basket after Bennett made one of two free throws on the other end. 
Then, Coleman stole the ball at around midcourt, passed to Edwards, who dished it to Thompson for the layup. With just 1:02 to play, Syracuse had 

-~-~--~-~-----------~---, 
The Observer 

its first lead or the second half, 
63-62. 
"This is as good a job as we have ever done, in a situation where we're not making any­thing, of using our defense to get it turned around," Boeheim said. "When you're down 13 to a team with good guards and good foul shooting, it's difficult to come back. We did a good job of trapping both half-court and full-court." 
Notre Dame called time out, then Bennett missed a shot. El­lis leaped over a pair of Or­angemen to grab the rebound,· his 15th of the game. Ellis drew a foul on Thompson, and made one of two free throws to tie it at 63-63. 
That set up the Owens basket and the Bennett miracle. 
"The kids have learned a lot from our road schedule this year," Phelps said. "Since we're not in a conference and since we played well in the first and second rounds of the NCAAs last year, we felt we didn't need to play 1 8 road games and pad our schedule with 24 to 25 wins." 
"Losing LaPhonso the first semester really hurt us and we had to play catchup. Today we caught up. 
NOTRE DAME (66) 
Williams 4-12 4-4 12, La.Ellis 2-6 7-8 11, Robinson 6-7 1-2 13, Bennett 6-13 5-6 18, Fredrick 4-10 3-4 12, Ellery 0-0 0-0 0, Tower 0-4 0-0 0, Singleton 0-0 0-0 0, Paddock 0­0 0-0 0, Jackson 0-0 0-0 0. 22-53 20-24 66 SYRACUSE(65) 
Coleman 5-8 4-8 16, Thompson 7-5 0-1 14, Le.Ellis 2-4 0-0 4, Owens 6-12 2-2 14, Edwards 3­15 0-0 7, Scott 3-7 0-0 8, The Observer f John Cluver 
Hopkins 1-3 0-0 2, Manning 0-0 Irish sophomore LaPhonso Ellis was a monster on the boards against 0-0 0. 27-65 6-11 65. Syracuse, pulling down 15 in the Notre Dame win. 
Halftime-Syracuse 30, Notre outside shooters on the team. whether the Irish could beat the 
Dame 29. 3-point goals-Notre "It's designed to go to any of clock. Dame 2-4 (Bennett 1-2, the three shooters, whoever "At first I thought he shot it Fredrick 1-2), Syracuse 5-18 happens to be open," Bennett late," said Fredrick, who was (Coleman 2-2, Scott 2-5,. said. "I knew whatever shooter underneath the basket at the Edwards 1-8). Fouled out­would be open -me, Joe or time. "With three seconds left, none. Rebounds-Notre Dame Monty Williams." and the ball getting passed 39 (Ellis 15), Syracuse 35 Bennett ended up being on the twice ... " (Coleman 11). Assists-Notre receiving end of Ellis' pass, Bennett, staring an NIT bid in Dame 13 (Bennett 5), Syracuse inches behind the three-point the face, hit nothing but net, 15 (Edwards 6). Total fouls­stripe in front of the key. though he didn't feel too !loori Notre Dame 14, Syracuse 13. "We wanted to go for the about the shot as he got it off. 
three, and Elmer made a great "It felt good when I put it up, 
shot," Phelps said. but then I thought it would hit 
Even Bennett wasn't sure the back of the iron and fall 
continued from page 20 whether he actually was behind off." he said. 
the line when he took the shot. It didn't, and Bennett silenced 
court, and I looked for some­"As soon as I got it, I took the crowd of 32,747, the second 
body else to take it." the shot," he said. "I wasn't largest in Carrier Dome history. 
Ellis had a choice of passing looking at my feet. I just Instead of Syracuse students to Bennett, Joe Fredrick or wanted to get that shot off." storming the floor, it was an Monty Williams -the three best Fredrick was skeptical as to elated Phelps doing dances ­
across it. He did everything but 

Shot 



Owners balk 
at dropping original plans 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Chuck O'Connor, management's chief negotiator in the baseball talks, said Sunday he had trouble convincing some owners to drop their revenue sharing and pay-for-performance propos­als. 
Commissioner Fay Vincent last week substituted the origi­nal proposals with a nine-point plan that calls for a 75 percent cap on salary increases in arbi­tration. 
"If you're asking me, 'Did you have difficulty convincing some clubs on the PRC of it?' the an­swer to that is yes," O'Connor said. "We had lengthy discussions, morning and afternoon conference calls ... but we were able to emerge with a consensus that this was the way we're going to go."
-
O'Connor and players associ­ation head Donald Fehr spoke Sunday during a forum on baseball collective bargaining at a meeting of the Associated Press Sports Editors. Fehr was in Tampa and O'Connor partic­ipated from New York by tele­phone hookup. As the lockout enters its fifth day, negotiations resume in New York with two sessions on Monday. The morning is sched­uled to be devoted to non-eco­nomic issues and the afternoon to the central areas of con! tention. Sunday's meeting with re­porters was unusual in that Fehr and O'Connor spoke jointly for 30 minutes and had the opportunity to rebut state­ments. After negotiating ses­sions, the two hold separate briefings. O'Connor said Vincent's pro­posals resulted from discus­sions that followed the owners meeting on Feb. 9 outside Chicago. 

OURS: Mon. -Fri. 8:00 -5:30 Sat. 8:00-3:00 PLE LANE BARBER SHOP 2112 South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 4663D 
272-6722 . ' next to Coach's · 
Monday, February 19, 1990
The Observer 

Saint Mary's basketball romps over Northwestern club team 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team trounced Northwestern University's club team Saturday 96-41, upping its season record to 10-9. ­
The Belles dominated from the start. Playing strong off the boards, they jumped to an 18-4 lead within the first five minutes of play. Sophomore guard Teresa Clemens, who led the Belles' scoring efforts, came off the bench to score eight of her 13 points in the first half. The Belles capitalized on Northwestern's weaknesses and extended their lead to 52­24 at the half. 
"They are only a club team," Belles coach Marvin Wood said. "We dominated them on the boards and ran on the breaks real well." 
In the second half, the Belles continued their strong rebounding. Senior center Anne Gallagher led the Belles in the second half. scoring all of her nine points. Sophomore forward Catherine Restovich added another six points to the score. Senior guard Dawn Brohman and junior guard Mea Tettonborn sealed the Belles offensive slaughter of Northwestern with one three point goal each. 
Adding to the Belles' scoring efforts was junior forward Linda Garrett, with 12 points and nine rebounds. Sophomore forward Kelly Cook, sophomore guard Janet Libbing and Restovich each contributed eight points. Freshman forward Kim Holmes tallied eight points and nine rebounds. 
The Belles shot at 53 percent from the field and 72 percent from the line. 
Absent from Saturday's game was senior guard Julie Radke, who leads the team in scoring and assists. She has been side­lined for the last month with a mild stress fracture in her left leg. 
Radke is expected to return to action Tuesday night when the Belles host the University of Wisconsin-Parkside. She begins practice today. 
"The main thing is that she'll have to make a quick adjust­ment," Woods said. "I don't think that she'll have a problem with that, but I am concerned about problems she might have with her mental game." 
Radke doesn't expect to have any problems adjusting either. 
"At first it was a problem (playing) because I wasn't too sure how serious it was," Radke said. "But now that I know that it's only a mild stress fracture, I won't be thinking about it too much. I know that playing on it won't be a risk." 
Hadke's return could not have come a moment too soon. The Belles have three games re­maining on their schedule and their playoff hopes are still alive. 
"This is a big week for us. Those games really count for us. If we win all of our games, our chances of playoffs are good," Wood said. 
The -l 
Observ~ 
RETORttlttG FOR FfiLL SEMESTER 1990??? 
• fin advance enrollment form and $100 (if required) 
MOST be mailed to: University of ttotre Dame 
•
Cashier s Office ttotre Dame. Itt 46556 -5632 
DEfiDLittE: February 28. 1990 
If you have not received an advance 
•
enrollment form and are a continuing undergraduatv studvnt. forms may be
• 

obtained from the Student Accounts
•

• Office. Room 102. Administration
• 

Building.
• 

················································: 
Monday, February 19, 1990 

Dame.
Lou Holtz, a 1959 Kent State graduate, was named to the school's 
Despite the allegations, T.J.
athletic hall of fame Friday in Kent, Ohio. 
I 
I I I Mon.

t 
I 
r·----------·------···-,
BEAT THE CLOCK 

Order 1 large original pizza with 
1 toppin(l between 4 and 7 PM 

and the ume on the clock is the 
price that you pay. 
Offer valid Monday's only! 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 


~alpa<~~oP~~~on.gttor.•only HQtvaifd...,thanyOIIW!ott.< Pratmay,.,.,. CuWome• p.,.. ~· ta• _,.,.,, ~.PP~oc•bl• o.u.....ry ,,., Umltlld 1o en1u11 ..-. dt"""''ig CN!dt~n«ytanthanl2000 Ourclfl..,,..,'>CIIPin.allllldiQt._ ~~ CtN9 OomrAO'I I'<UI. Inc llsb/an 
·----------------------· 
Tues. 

r·····················-,
TRIPLE TUESDAY 1 
I I 

Present this coupqn and receive 1 3 small original chHae pizzas 1 for $8.89. Additional toppings available I
:.::-::a: II.i
J 

......... ~-....,.Nclllllld..-..,.._ ....,......_..,. I ~-==~=.==:,.-:.=.:::=: I 
~•-Do!Nnct'1 ""-Inc. 1/lbiCm I 
·-----------··········-· 
Weds. 
r·····················-,
WILD WEDNESDAY 
Present thil ~and IWClllllw 
1 small original pepperoni pizza tor $2.6. 1iOdlliorill topplnglavailable at an eddltlonel chlrge. 
Offer Vllid Wednelday's only! 

II 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/3fJ/90 : ~ 
.....,......_...,..............................,_, 
~

..........................,_......_....
....._ow.._....,......--.ow.._••....._..... .......o........,....._a..._••,......,..
,....._o..lllft,..,.. ......._Do!Mw'l......... ,.....
•......................• ........................
ow_...,___..__,_ 
The Observer page 17 
No change in plans for lllini recruits 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) ­Three basketball recruits who signed letters of intent to play at Illinois say they still plan to attend despite the threat of sanctions on the team resulting from NCAA allegations of im­proper recruiting. 
And an East St. Louis Lincoln High School basketball coach who figures in the investigation says at least one of the allega­tions levied by the NCAA against Illinois is false. 
In addition to cash and cars, the NCAA charges unveiled Fri­day said Illinois basketball re­cruits were given athletic equipment and personal pho­tos, and that a recruiter en­gaged in "a knowing and willful effort" to break NCAA rules. 
Names were deleted in the NCAA charges, but published reports have indicated the probe involved the recruiting of top prospects Deon Thomas of Chicago and LaPhonso Ellis of East St. Louis. 
The investigation led Illinois to withhold freshman Thomas from play and assistant coach Jimmy Collins from recruiting. Ellis is a sophomore at Notre
AP Photo 

Clemons of Springfield, and Seott Pierce of Euless, Texas, say they still want to attend the university. 
"I definitely intend to play atf. Illinois," said Whealer. "I really don't let it bother me." 
"Scott's still committ~d to the University of Illinois," said Tommy Newman, Pierce's coach at Trinity High School. "He's pleased with his deci­sion." 
"I knew when I signed that they were under investigation," Clemons said. "Now, if they go on probation for a couple of years, I'm still going to stick with it and go there." 
Item No. 4 of the NCAA Offi­cia! inquiry charges that in 1987, an Illinois recruiting prospect received between $200 and $300 from his high school coach, who the report says got the money from an agent of the university. 
The prospect has been identified in published reports as Ellis. But his high school coach at East St. Louis Lincoln, Bennie Lewis, says the allegation is false. 
"He needed some clothes and shoes for the prom," Lewis said. "I know $50 came out of 
Wheeler of Christopher, Rennie my own pocket. They (Illinois 
--..-..--~--..-..----------·-.._...._.._-..-.-..-....-.c-·.-.c-.-.c_..-....-c.._..___-._..-~-......-..-..-,
I'? SEVEN TASTYWAYS · --=: I tr TO IMPROVEA tr 
I -. COLLEGE EDUCATION.-. 
It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Every 
day this week, you can get a special oHer 
from Domino's Pizza® Whether it's free extra 
crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's 
more reasons to make this the week for a 
special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why 
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, 
you'll see why this is the week you've been 
waiting for. 
CALL US! 

271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DEUVERS.
II.

FREE. 
Sun. 
r·····················-,
DOUBLE FEATURE Present this~ n~ ...... 
2 amall original chMM plzzaa
tor$5.29. 

OFFER EXPIRES: MtJR0 
-........-.......................••...
a.-...,........_..........,_......._ ... 
Thurs. 
r----·················-,
THICK THURSDAY 
Present this coupon and receive 1 medium pizza smothered in cheese and pepperoni. 
PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00 
Offer valid Thursday's only! 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
~~e 

\'alid., par1k:ipadlng ~Coraonly.lokll ....aid withanyolheron.t Prion 11\11)'-r. Cusa.om.rpays......_lax..,_,..appllcable.Deltvery-llnlftedlaena~ .. Qn..,ng. Our dr.....,. eany leN than S2Q.Oil Qui' d•l-4t• .,. not pendHd 1o1 "* 
~--Cllri1811' Oomino't Piua.. 1ne. 1/sblan 
·----------------------· 
Fri. 
r·····················-,
DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 
Present this coupon and receive 2-12' original pizza!! with 2 toppings and 2 COKES for $11.49. 
011er valid Friday's only! 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 
.....,.,.,....._..,...............,.................,.,. 
~,. 

....................................._.. 
....(MdrhiWI_, ..........~drMn-nal: ............ ......... ·-o...n P'WIL-1/lb!MI 
Sat. 
r·····················-,
PARTY SPECIAL I 
I 

OFFER EXPIRES: 8/30190 
a.-......,..................,_....,AWl__......
...........-.................. _

•• I 

.....__........,_,_ 'UIWIIII 
,I$

..................a.--............. 
L.:._.._...._...._....-...,_.~~.._..---,_...._....,_..~=-=---------------..---------·---..---------·----------.. 
coaches) haven't sent me anything. Nobody gave us anything from the University of Illinois. Every time he (Ellis) needed anything, he came to us." 
Lewis said he resents the charges made by the NCAA. 
"They're putting us in as middlemen and that's not true," Lewis said. 
Collins is a target of the NCAA probe, Lewis said, because of his success. 
"I definitely think it's a conspiracy to get him out," Lewis said. "He's one of the top recruiters in the country. When Y'OU start getting that reputation, somebody's going to throw a monkey wrench in there to mess things up." 
Collins' attorney, Mark Goldenberg, said he can "paint a nice picture for the NCAA Infractions Committee." 
In a detailed letter of official inquiry, Collins was cited in six serious recruiting allegations involving Thomas and Ellis, and was associated with four lesser charges. 
This led to an unethical conduct charge in which the NCAA said he had "demonstrated a knowing and willful effort to violate NCAA legislation." 
St. Cloud 
continued from page 20 
good chances. The Irish ended up one-or-seven on the power play. 
St. Cloud took advantage of two consecutive penalties to tie the score at one with just over 12 minutes to play in the pe­riod. Leonard Esau gave the Huskies a 2-1 lead in the sec­ond period with a blast from the point, but Notre Dame scored the tying goal at 12:24 of the third as Kevin Markovitz coralled a loose puck in front of the net and punched it in. St. uoud St. went up 3-2 with 5:34 remaining after a rebound shot trickled by Madson who played outstanding on his 22nd birth­day. 
The Irish got a break with two minutes left as the Huskies Esau was called for having too mueh eurve on his stick. With a minute to play Madson came to the bench and the Irish used six attackers, and although they again had some good chances, they couldn't find the net for the tie. 
"Saturday we just wanted to play," explained Schafer." Our goal was to not let the referees take us away from what we in­tended to do. " 
FREE 
TANNING 

NEXT TO VENTURE Daily 9-6 

GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA Sat 9-6 277-7946 Sun. 11-5 

... 
'· 
Monday, February 19, 1990 
Some wrestlers rest; others roll over Ohio 

Special to The Observer 
In a match that featured respites and milestones, the Notre Dame wrestling team downed the University of Ohio 25-6 Saturday at the Joyce ACC. 
Seniors Pat Boyd and Andy Radenbaugh, the Irish wrestlers with the two best records on the team, sat out Saturday's match against the lightly-regarded Ohio team. 
In Radenbaugh's place, Dave Iacaponi lost his match at the 118-pound division. Freshman Jamie Boyd sat in for his All­America older brother and won the 142-pound match. 
Three Irish wrestlers reached individual plateaus on the season. Sophomore 167­pounder Mark Gerardi earned his 30th victory of the year, while 126-pound Marcus 
The Observer 1 Tami Lowery 
The Notre Dame wrestling team got the best of Ohio University Saturday at the Joyce ACC. 
' 



TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 
~~~dm~=-~~=-=-===-=========dm~~~~ 
Gowens and 150-pound Todd Layton each won for the 20th time on the season. 
All the Irish wrestlers aside from Iacaponi and 134-pound freshman James Posey won their individual matches, yet Notre Dame coach Fran Mc­Cann was unimpressed by his team's performance. 
"We're just not wrestling very well right now, and we're going to have to do it sometime be­cause we're not wrestling Ohio next week," McCann said. 
Instead of Ohio, the Irish go back to face the University of Iowa, which is leading the strong Big Ten Conference. The Hawkeyes are identified as the strongest traditional wrestling program and had a string of nine consecutive national championships snapped in 1987. 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR lOUR LIFE 

American Heart ~:._•a Association ,,. 

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 


Monday, February 19, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS

Monday 
6:30 p.m. Workshop, "Career/Major Decision Making.~ Room 300 University Counseling Center. For Additional Information, call 239-7336. Sponsored by the University Counseling Center. 
7 p.m. Shakespeare Films, "MacBeth.~ Engineering Au­ditorium. Sponsored by Department of English. 
Tuesday 
12 pm. Fireside Chat, "Messages in the Music.~ ISO Lounge. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Monday 
12 p.m. Lecture, "The Significance of Oral Tradition and Photographs as a Research Source," Ben Wilson, associ­ate professor of Black American Studies. International Lounge, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Office of Minority Student Affairs. 
4 p.m. Lecture by Eric Owen Moss. Room 207 Architec­ture Building. Sponsored by the School of Architecture. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Delayed Oscillation in the Fitz-Hugh Nagumo Equation,~ Professor Jianzhang Su, University of Minnesota. Room 226, Math Building. Coffee in Room 201 at 4 p.m. Sponsored by Department of Mathematics. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Southern Fried Chicken Shepherd's Pie Waffles Mar Flank Steak Sandwich 
BILL WATTERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 

w 
u 
M 
P! 
~ 
~ 
~ o
~~UJJOO 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ Applications Boa~ Manager
~ for: • ...,-• 
~ Dtrector OJ Programmtng 
~ ~ Director ofRelations ! _.., Director of Marketing 
~ ~~.<-~~,o~~ Controller 
~ ~~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 

Executive Council Positions for 1990-91 ~ 
~ 

• 
d 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Best of Carson'' 23 Former name of Varanasi, India 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CROSSWORD 

54 Tear 57 Golfer Palmer 59 In the center 63 Jewish month 64 Card-game 
phrase 66 "La Boheme" 
heroine 67 First victim 68 Dance of 
Bohemian origin 69 Kind of mother 
or son 70 Word on a towel 71 Appease 
DOWN 
1 Wan 2 Way off 3 Wild OX 4 Theater section 5Wood for skis 6 "I Love a-," 
1931 song 7 Gathered a Early inhabitant 
of Britain 9Awry 10 These often get tickled 11 City in the 
Keystone State 12 Hamlet. e.g. 13 Snow vehicle 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

Now available at the ~ 
I ~ 

Secretary's Desk ~ 2nd Floor LaFortune Due Febru"'"' 22. 1990 ~ 
-..
~J ~ 
25 Wing part  38Vim  54 Bellwethers  
26 Bistro  39 Haw. before  55 Redact  
27 Silly  1959  56 Appoint  
28 Collar woes?  41 Novelist Harper  58 Gown  
29 "Peanuts," e.g.  59 GJ truant  
31 Kindled  44 AA candidate  60 Factory  
33 Strad competitor  48 Gazelles of  61 Actress-writer  
34 E. Indian cereal  Arabia  Chase  
grass  _51 Rani's spouse  62 June 6, 1944  
36 Caesar from  53 Finished, to  65 Baden-Baden is  
Yonkers  Keats  one  
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  

ACROSS 
1 Actress Prentiss 6 Hemingway's 
sobriquet · 10 G-men 14 Hair styles 15 Novelist 
Kingsley-­16 Soviet stream 17 Sitcom add-on 19 Supreme Court 
number 20 Gaelic 21 Speed 22 Want 23 Th1ngs with 
springs 24 Route 26 Enchantress 30 Slippery one 32 Metal beam 35 Negatively 
charged atoms 37 Ambassador or 
envoy 40 Letters to stars 42 'Twixt 12 and 20 43 Surrounded 45 Surpassing: 
Comb. form 46 Suffix with 
inchoative verbs 47 Period 49Willow 50 Soviet div. 52 Press 



Sports 
Monday, February 19, 1990
page 20 
Win over No.4 SU revives tournament hopes 
By STEVE MEGARGEE nary turn of emotions in the Fredrick said afterward that Associate Sports Editor game's final five seconds. After "we practice that play every Notre Dame had led for almost day," while Phelps stated that 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -Joe Fred­the entire second half, Orange the Irish occasionally worked drick claimed it was a play the forward Billy Owens drove on it. Irish practice every day. Sy­down the lane, shot with his left "We've diagrammed that 
racuse forward Derrick Cole­hand and connected from four thing and worked on it for four man brushed it off as the "luck feet out to give Syracuse a 65-years," Phelps said. "The last of the Irish." 63 lead with three seconds on time we practiced it was over the clock. the holidays." 
• Ellis rebounds I page 14 
"I didn't think (Owens) would ••• 
Either way, Eimer Bennett's get that far," said Syracuse As amazing as Bennett's shot buzzer-beating three-pointer at coach Jim Boeheim, who was, it was almost as incredible the Carrier Do.me Saturday watched his Orange lose their that the Irish had a chance to gave Notre Dame a 66-65 upset second straight and fall to 18-win the game at the end, con­of No. 4 Syracuse and resusci­5. "Billy drove all the way to the sidering the road woes Notre tated Irish hopes of an NCAA basket and made a great play." Dame has endured this season. Tournament bid. The Irish came into the Dome 
"This puts us in a position of And now, a forgotten play. with a 48 percent shooting per­credibility." said Notre Dame After an Irish time out, Keith centage and a 4-8 road record coach Digger Phelps, whose Hobinson threw the inbounds away from home, including na­
team moved to 14-8 and to the pass half the length of the tionally televised losses to LSU, top of the list of borderline court to LaPhonso Ellis, who Duke and Houston three of the tournament teams. "We knew passed it to Bennett. The last four weekends. Syracuse 
we had enough road games to sophomore point guard. with had not lost a regular-s~ason finally pull it together. and we his feet just in front of the home game since the Irish last did it today." three-point stripe behind the came here in 1986. 
The Carrier Dome crowd key, hit the shot as the buzzer went thorough an extraordi-sounded. see ORANGE! page 15 
A 'second' chance at victory 
By STEVE MEGARGEE put on the clock. Without it, the seconds left," Phelps said. Associate Sports Editor Irish never would have been "Don't panic." able to convert the extraordi­The Irish followed their 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -Sometimes narily effective buzzer-beating coach's orders, and seconrls onf1 second can make the dif­drive down the floor that gave later they had Phelps dancing ference of a lifetime. Notre Dame its 66-65 upset. across the Carrier Dome floor 
In the case of the Notre Dame "When we called time, it was in something that remotely re­mp,n's basketball team, the four (seconds), and the ref saw sembled an Irish jig. addition of one second to the it and said it was three," Phelps The possession started with Carrier Dome scoreboard may said. Keith Hobinson's inbounds pass have prolonged the length of Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim to LaPhonso Ellis. the Irish season. saw it a little bit differently. "Hobinson did a great job of 
After a basket by Billy Owens "I thought there were two ball-faking first, then throwing put Syracuse ahead of Notre seconds left," he said. "Whey the pass to Ellis," Phelps said. Dame for just the second time they changed it to three sec­Ellis got the ball around the in the second half, the Irish onds. I have no clue." center of the court, surrounded called time out. The Owens shot That extra second gave the by two Syracuse defenders, try­fell through the hoop with three Irish a fighting chance of get­ing to decide whether to shoot seconds on the clock, but when ting the ball down the entire or pass the ball further down­the Irish huddled to plan strat­court and scoring before time court. egy for their last play, the ran out. Phelps made sure to "I thought about (shooting) scoreboard showed only two get that across to his players until I found out where I was seconds remaining. during the team's final confer­positioned on the floor," Ellis 
Irish coach Digger Phelps ence. said. "I saw I was close to half-conferred with the officials and Elmer Bennett gets fouled by Syracuse's LeRon Ellis. Bennett's was able to get an extra second "I told them there's three see SHOT I page 1 5 buzzer-beating three-point jumper beat the Orangemen Saturday. 
Irish have unhappy homecoming 
Hockey team falls 7-3 and 3-2 to St. Cloud State 
By MIKE KAMRADT its lead to 4-1 with 1:51 gone in Lance Madson played a Sports Writer the third. strong game in stopping 42 "They showed some of their shots and senior defenseman 
Although almost half the size in strength," said Schafer Mike Leherr turned in some players on the Notre Dame in reference to the fDur goals outstanding work. hockey team are from the Huskies scored after the "You won't see his fLeherr's) Minnesota, this weekend's trip initial Irish marker. name on the score sheet," to their home state wasn't as Sophomore defenseman Hob Schafer said, "but he played the pleasant as it normally would Copeland cut the Huskie lead to best hockey of his career." be. The Irish ran into a tough 4-2 with 15 minutes to play as Saturday night's 3-2 loss was St. Cloud State team on Friday Mike Curry assisted on the a tough one to swallow as the and Saturday nights, and the goal. The Irish hopes to climb Irish controlled the game out­Irish dropped a 7-3 decision closer were dashed when the shooting the Huskies 36-23, and a hard fought 3-2 loss as a Huskies struck for two goals in something not too many teams three game winning streak was ten seconds to up the margin to accomplish against St. Cloud. snapped. 6-2. One might think that this "We deserved to win," said 
"I'm disappointed, sure," was due to a defe.nsive break­Schafer. "We played good commented Irish coach Hie down, but that wasn't the case. hockey. We had excellent de­Schafer. "I would have liked to "Their player (Jeff fense and a lot of good get one win, but I'm not at all Saterdalen) made some spec­chances. We just couldn't bring disappointed with the way we tacular moves," explained it home." played." Schafer. "He moved around two Four minutes into the game 
Notre Dame got on the or three of our players and Dave Bankoske tallied his 27th scoreboard first Friday night beat Madson. That was one for goal of the year after he stole a as sophomore Lou Zadra, who the highlight film." pass, skated in, and blasted the has played very well as of late, The Irish narrowed the mar­puck home. This night the Irish took a Tim Kuehl pass and gin to 6-3 on Tim Kuehl's 14th kept the pressure on after tak­found the mark for a 1-0 lead. goal of the season, but were ing the lead as they had a five­The Huskies answered at 9:51 ·not able to get any closer. on-three advantage for 1:20 and then took the lead with midway through the period, but 
18:34 gone to take a 2-1 lead "We hurt ourselves by getting couldn't capitalize on some 
The Observer I Scott McCann after one period. St. Cloud frustrated at not scoring goals The Notre Dame hockey .t,eam played well in defeat this weekend, and some of the officials'
scored the only goal of the sec­
see ST. CLOUD I page 17falling twice to tough St. Cloud State. ond period and then extended calls," stated Schafer. 





