


ByJOEMOODY 
News Writer 
With security guards standing at every door, the first vice president of Panama in a gen­nration condemned his tyranni­cal predecessor and exalted the vision and willrulness of the Panamanian people. 
"What has taken place in Panama in just four months is indeed a great change in the eountry," proclaimed Vice Pmsident Hicardo Calderon in his lecture last night. 
Just four months ago. Panama was still suffering un­dPr a harsh, erime ridden dieta­torship. The nearly 3-to-1 vie­tory of the Christian Demo­cratic party was deelared void by tlw dictator General Manuel Noriega. lie had assumed abso­lute power and pronounced a state of war. Freedom of ex­pression and dun proeess of law were grossly violated. Cor­ruption went uncheeked, said Calderon. 
Calderon was elected viee president of his country in May, 1989, but the refusal of General Noriega to recognize thfl elec­toral results forced him and othnr opposition leaders into exile. lie took his oath of office at the lloward U.S. Air Force Base immediately following the Deeember 20 invasion whieh toppled the Noriega regime, ae­cording to Michael Garvey of 
• Press conference/ page 4 
Notre Dame Department of Public Helations and Informa­tion. 
"The basic thrust for libera­tion was ours -Panamanian to the core, as a result of our struggles," said Calderon at­tributing the democratic revo­lution in his country the result of the people's enduranee and vision for justice, as well as the eulminating role played by the United States military. 
"The peoples of the world are showing a great resolve to be free," Calderon commented, adding, "Freedom is indivisible in this small world. You cannot have a world one-half free and one-half slave. Your own (American) history taught you that. The resolve to be free goes hand in hand with the re­solve for justice." 
Calderon painted an opti­mistic portrait of the future deelaring, "Peace and freedom are no longer a utopian dream, but have become a horizon in our reach, and we must reach for it now." 
"The yearning for peace springs from the most ra<;iical human experience, a sense of dignity. And peace will now last unless we satisfy the conditions of justice," Calderon continued. 
Of the changes already taking place in Panama, Calderon of­fered the following observa­tions: 
•
Panama now enjoys full free­dom of the press and due pro­cess of law. 

•Panama 
is, for the first time in 21 years, living in a democ­racy free of oppression. 

•The 
government has estab­lished the first balanced budget in three years. 

•The 
economy is still anx­iously awaiting aid, but despite that limitation, it is experienc­ing an improvement. 

•The 
Panamanian people have regained a trust in themselves. Their eyes are turned from fear to hope and prosperity. 

•The 
government is attempt­ing to turn Noriega's so-called "defense" forces into security forces of the police nature. 


"Our task is transferring from a dictatorship to a democracy.. . It has really been a profound, great change in four months," summarized Calderon. 
Of his more dramatic experi­ences, following the U.S. mili­tary invasion and the transfer of power when his life was en­dangered, Calderon reflected saying, "In that dark hour, you learn the affairs of man are not just in his hands. The affairs of man are in the hands of God." 
The lecture was titled "Three Months of Democracy in Panama." It was given Wednes­day in Notre Dame's Cushing Hall of Engineering. 
Terrorists promise to free U.S. hostage if prisoners are released 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A U.S. ambassador to Lebanon pro-Iranian group holding from 1983 to 1988, when the three U.S. educators hostage eight Americans were seized. promised on Wednesday to free Kelly was in Bonn, West Ger­one of the Americans within 48 many, on Wednesday. hours as a humanitarian ges­In Washington, Secretary of ture and said he would carry a State James Baker appeared to message for President Bush. welcome the reports. 
Reliable diplomatic sources in "Of course we're always Damascus, Syria, confirmed an hopeful," Baker said while reit­American would be freed Friday erating a longstanding U.S. in the Syrian capital. demand that all eight Ameri­
The group, Isla_mic Jihad for cans held in Lebanon be re­the Liberation of Palestine, did leased unconditionally. not say which of the three Baker, however, hedged on would be freed. Its statement the demand for Kelly to ny to was accompanied by an instant Damascus. "At the present photograph of Jesse Turner of time, the Middle East is not on Boise, Idaho -the first photo his agenda," he said. of him alone since three months Presidential press secretary after his 1987 abduction. Marlin Fitzwater told re­
However, the White House porters: "We would not antici­rejected one demand of the pate him becoming involved in hostage-takers: that a senior hostage release in any way." 
U.S. diplomat fly to Damascus Fitzwater said of the rnports, to coordinate the release. "We don't know if they're trUI~. 
The Islamic Jihad for the Lib­We've seen this many times be­eration of Palestine holds fore. We hope they're trtH~. Turner, Alann Steen and Hobert We'll wait and see." Polhill. All were abducted from Diplomatic soun~es in Dam­the eampus of Beirut University ascus said Fon~ign Minister College on Jan. 24, 1987. They Farouk Sharaa last month car­are among 18 Westerners, in­ried a letter on tlw issue from cluding eight Americans, held Syrian President llafez Assad by pro-Iranian groups in Le­to President llashmni Hafsan­banon. jani in Iran. 
The longest-held is Terry An­The letter stressed the neces­derson, chief Middle East eor­sity to close the hostages' file, respondent for The Associated according to one of the Press, kidnapped March 16, sources, speaking on condition 1985. of anonymity. 
The kidnappers demanded lin said the Syrians wen~ fol­John Kelly, U.S. assistant sec­lowing a pledge made by retary of state for Near East­Sharaa in February to hostag1~ ern affairs, fly to Damascus. families to seek the release of 
"The arrangements for the all the captives in Lebanon. release should be accomplished The kidnappers' 26-line mes­by the arrival of John Kelly in sage was delivered to the inde­Damascus to coordinate some pendent Beirut newspaper An­final steps to guarantee success Nahar and a Western news within 48 hours," the handwrit­agency in Beirut. It was deliv­ten statement said. ered at sundown Wednesday, 
It did not specify what the whieh could mean the deadline kidnappers expected Kelly to do 
see HOSTAGES I page 8 
in Damascus. Kelly served as 

The Observer/Dave ::;non 
Snuggling on the steps 
Margaret Branick, a senior from Farley Hall, and Don Elbert, a se­nior living in St. Ed's Hall, get close on the steps outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall Wednesday. The concrete steps can't be too comfortable, but at least they have each other. 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 19, 1990 
INSIDE 'COLUMN 
The secrets of women as told through purses 
My friend Larry is very smart, but will admit without hesitation to being fully-blown gonzo confused by women. In a futile attempt to gain some insight, he 

recently conducted an Paige Smoron 
independently funded study of: the contents Asst. Accent Editor ladies' handbags. I'm 
not sure why. These were his findings: Type A purse (petite) 
•random 
unused cosmetics 

•typewriter 
(small) 

•periodic 
table 

•can 
of mace 

•discreetly 
wrapped condom (just in case) 

•tire 
iron (small) Type B purse (moderate) all of the above, plus: 

•more 
cosmetics 

•extra 
can of mace (for that two-fisted attack) 

•iron 
mace (for really pushy people) 

•family-sized 
Nuprin 

•Bartlett's 
Famous Quotations 

•
hot rollers 

•spare 
change of clothing 

•the 
complete works of William Shake­


speare (just in case) Type C purse (big) all of the above, plus: 
•still 
more cosmetics 

•2-liter 
bottle of Diet Coke •straw 

•pitchfork 
(just in case) 

•rain 
hat 

•Beethoven's 
Ninth Symphony (cd) •searchlight 

•cellular 
phone 

•answering 
machine 

•power 
drill 

•extra 
vodka and orange juice Type D purse (really big) all of the above, plus: 

•more 
cosmetics, circa 1978 

•sweater 
(wool) 

•sheep 
(just in case) 

•dentist's 
drill 

•fifty 
feet of climbing rope (just in case) •handcuffs 

•box 
of condoms (not necessarily related to handcuffs) 

•combination 
thresher (definitely no rela­


tion to handcuffs) •sofa 
•automatic 
transmission 

•spare 
spare tire 

•CRC 
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 

•beach 
towel •bathtub •plumber 

•yet 
another can of mace (for when you can't find the other two) 

•Doberman 
pinscher (just in case) 


I'm sure this probing analysis will clear up any shaky male-female relations here at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Ad Design 
VIeWpOint
T oday's Staff: 
John Cronin Maria Blohm 
Kerry Clair 
News 
SystemsTony Paganelli Paul Pearson Molly Schwartz Amy Eckert Pete Loftus Deb Walker Cara Eckman 
Accent 
Business
Sports 
Shonda Wilson Sandra Wiegand Chris Cooney Fran Moyer Mike Kolar Greg Guffey Cristina Ortiz 
Caroline Clarke Circulation Production 
Graphics
Chris Hanely Greg Tice Bradford BoehmLu Medeiros Andy Morrow 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday th~ Frtdav except during exam and vacation periods. The Mtr Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights ..reserved. 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Thursday, April 19. Lines show high temperatures.
'--.. 
70 
Yesterday's High: 55 Yesterday's Low: 24 Nation's High: 92 Nation's Low:16 
Forecast: Increasing cloudiness, 
breezy and warmer today 
with a 50 percent chance 
of afternoon showers. 
Highs around 60. Mostly 
cloudy and mild tonight 
and Friday with an 80 
percent chance of show­
ers. Lows tonight in the 
upper 40s. Highs Friday
FRONTS: 
in the lower 60s . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ [Til LJ tx:x:l 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST A Chilean Lunch is being served at the Center for Acoustic guitar duo John DiOrego and Dave Rupal, Social Concerns from 11:30a.m. to 1:30 p.m. All are wei-accompanied by various vocalists, will play at 9 p.m. come. Grace Hall Coffeehouse. They will be followed by an open microphone for audience participation. Model UN/OAS-There will be an informal discussion concerning the United Nations and the Organization of Dome Yearbooks will be distributed at Theodore's American States and recent trips by students who at­from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. today, tomorrow, and Saturday. tended mock sessions 4 p.m. at the Center for Social Con­ID is requin~d. cerns Coffeehouse. Questions, call Michael x1610. Craig Shergold is a 7-year-old boy in Atlanta, Ge­Attention Government Majors and those with an orgia, who is dying from a brain tumor. His last wish is interest in the Middle East: Pi Sigma Alpha's 2nd World to be put into the Guiness Book of World Records for the events rap session on current issues of the Middle East most get-well cards received. In order to help, send cards will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in Lewis Hall. Come and to: Mr. Craig Shergold c/o Children's Wish Foundation, 32 discuss these issues with Professors Dowty and Gaffney. Perimeter Center E., Atlanta, Georgia 30346 Questions, call Sally x1120 or Michelle x2542. Sandinista Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Alen­Hispanic American Organization-A short infor­jandro Bendana will speak tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Cen­mal meeting to welcome visiting minority recruits will be ter for Social Concerns on "Nicaragua After the Elections: held at 7:30 p.m. in Siegfried Hall to be followed by a A Sandinista Point of View." movie and refreshments. Class of 1991-Tomorrow is the last day to turn in Senior Class Board applications. 
NATIONAL 
Rev. Ralph David Abernathy, who was a friend and confidante to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. but was spurned by civil rights colleagues last year for discussing King's alleged infidelity in his memoirs, died Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta, Ga. He was 64. His tombstone will 


carry the two-word epitaph he chose before his death: "I tried.""That was more or less his motto. _But in my eyes, he did more than try. He made a difference," said Abernathy's son, state Rep. Ralph David Abernathy III. 
With Earth Day approaching, Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York has formed an investment trust comprised of what it calls "environmentally responsible" companies. Merrill even printed literature for the trust on recycled paper in green, biodegradable ink. The scheme by the na­tion's largest brokerage is among latest attempts by large corporations since last year's Exxon Valdez oil tanker spill to capitalize on investor demand to make money while showing concern about the environment. 
John Morton-Finney of Indianapolis has made good use of the nearly 101 years of his life. Marton-Finney has earned a dozen academic de­grees in the humanities and law, is fluent in more than a half-dozen languages and has traveled widely. All that, and the fact that he still lectures and studies, earned him the title of "America's most-seasoned scholar" bestowed by President Bush earlier this month. 
A film production team has arrived in Evansville to begin work on a movie about women's baseball in the 1940s, but officials re­main tight-lipped about the project. A production team for the movie, tentatively titled "A League of Their Own," has set up administrative offices at the Executive Inn and rented a former automobile showroom and garage. Filming is set for July. 
MARKET UPDATE 

{)r 1.98 
S&P Composite 340.72 {)r 3.96 Dow Jones Industrials 
2,733.88 {>-32.89 
Precious Metals Gold {} $1 .30 to $376.1 0 1oz. Silver{} 3.1¢ to $5.078 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On April19: e In 1775: The American Revo­lutionary War began with the Battles of Lexington and Con­cord. e In 1910: After weeks of being viewed through telescopes, Hal­ley's Comet was reported visible to the naked eye in Curacao. e In 1943: Thousands of Jews living in the Warsaw Ghetto be­gan their fight against Nazi oc­cupation forces. e In 1951: Gen. Douglas MacArthur, relieved of his command by President Truman, bade farewell to Congress, say­ing, "Old soldiers never die; they just fade away." e In 1982: Astronauts Sally Ride and Guion Bluford became the first woman and first black to be tapped for U.S. space missions. 


Thursday, Apri119, 1990 The Observer page 3 
CLC says 'No' to two spring semi-formals, drinks in halls 
By JAY STONE News Writer 
The Campus Life Council ap­proved two recommendations, tabled one recommendation, and denied two other recom­mendations proposed by the Student Government Committee on All-llall Semi-Formals. 
The council passed the pro­posals of asking the University to reevaluate its commitment to the recommendations of the Task Force on Whole Health

Studious sunbathers The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
and the Use and Abuse of Alco­

Liz Baer (left), and Meggan. Schmerg~, ~aint Mary's freshmen, enjoy the lovely weather Wednesday as they hol (spring, 1988) and estab­
catch some rays and do a little studymg m front of LeMans Hall. Rain may come tonight and Friday but tem­lishing a non-alcoholic fresh­
peratures should be in the 60s Friday. 
man-only semi-formal, spon­sored by one to four halls, to be held within a month of the be­
ginning of the fall semester. The council tabled the pro­posal asking that the Office of 

Saint Mary's student says would­
Student Affairs develop new rules to recognize and address 

be rapist attacked her on Easter 
By MICHAEL OWEN News Writer 
A Saint Mary's student re­ported Wednesday that she was the victim of an attempted rape that occurred on Easter Sun­day, April 15, according to Mike Garvey, assistant director of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
The student described her at­tacker as a white male, 20-21 years old, with a thin build. lie had short light brown hair that sho dnscribod as "mossod up." lie had a few days' growth of facial hair. She deseribed his eyes as "intense looking" but could not rmnembnr their color. lie had a low, groggy voice and worn a grey sweatshirt and blunjnans. 


of the student government re­port's recommendations. 
Mike Carrigan, chairman of the report, emphasized the positive aspects of semi-for­mals, citing that 95 percent of 
CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILY OR 2 PAIRS EXTENDED WEAR OF TINTED


$3998 $9998 
Softmo!e clear. dally. or Sottmo!e 6 or 6 & l ·o· tinted extended wear lenses lenoes. In 2 different colo" Eye exam required for contact• Soln$ power restrictions apply 

The attack took place at about 10 p.m. on Sunday as the victim was on her way to Mass. She was walking east on Saint Mary's Road when the assailant approached her from behind as she passed the Holy Cross Cemetery, Garvey said. 
According to Garvey, the vic­tim said her attacker asked her where she was going. He also told her that he had seen her walking there before and liked her. He then began to run his fingers through her hair. She in turn quickened her pace. 
The attacker followed her to the bus shelter near the Grotto. At that point he seized her by the throat and struck her in the face. She broke free and ran up the sidewalk toward the Admin-students responding to the re­cent SYR survey believed semi­
formals were an opportunity for positive interaction. Carri­gan also said the report "is not a cure-all". However, the ma­jority of the students on the council believed the committee's proposals would open the door for other and more improved alternatives for social interac­
'• 
tion. 

The 
MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION PRESENTS 
Eye Exams Available Ottlef doclafl RXI nlled • All Insurance pi<H1l welcome GM Preferred Vision Provide,... progron; · t>tropohton Ford • Chrysler • Worner Gear • f>.', · l•r:OJd 

FRIDAY, APRIL 20
EE a[J;]~ 


4:45 
MONTGOMERY THEATER (LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER) 
The faculty and administra­tion on the council fnlt that tho report did not adequately ad­dress the problmns of social in­teraction on and off campus. Several rnembnrs bnlieved that another hall semi-formal in the spring would re-enforce the idea that semi-formals are the only opportunity for social in­teraction on-campus. 
~ather Michael Sullivan, rec­tor of Carroll llall, cited the findings by the University task force that for 34 percent of the student body semi-formals were their only form of dating. "The real issue is how to be more creative," said Sullivan. 
Peter Lombardo, associate director of the Center for Con­tinuing Education, and John Goldrick, associate vice presi­dent for residence life, reiter­ated the concern that more semi-formals would only facili­tate the student fixation that they are the only opportunities for dating. 
Lombardo criticized the re­port for being too narrow, fo­cusing only on hall semi-for­mals. Lombardo said he feared that an additional semi-formal would be seen as the solution to the problem and not the begin­ning of new improvements. 
The majority of the council denied the last recommendation of allowing students to have drinks in the hallways on the grounds of the legal implica­tions to the University. Goldrick said that the Univer­sity has no authority to allow underage drinking in the hall­ways. However, he said that the University also honors the student's right-to-privacy and will not enforce the drinking law in dorm rooms. 
This was the Campus Life Council's last meeting regard­ing hall semi-formals. They will reconvene in the fall semester to readdress the pro­posals which did not pass and discuss alternatives to on-earn­pus hall semi-formals. Accord­ing to Carrigan, the proposals which passed will go on to Fa­ther David Tyson, vice president of Student Affairs, who will make a decision about them probably by the end of the semester. 
istration Building. He seized her again, this time by the shoulders. The student screamed and her attacker fled the scene. She did not remem­ber which direction he went, Garvey said. 
Assistant director of Security Chuck Hurley said that it was not known why the victim waited until yesterday to report the attack. Hurley said, "This is the first report like this that we have received." The case is not believed to be connected to any others on campus, according to Hurley. 
Hurley stated that anyone having any information about the case should contact Notre Dame Security at 239-5555. 
cases of severe alcohol abuse at semi-formals. 
Lastly, the council denied the recommendation of allowing halls to have two spring on­campus semi-formals if the halls satisfy the 70 percent minimum in the fall and the recommendation of allowing students to have drinks in the hallways on the night of semi­formals. 
The council's main consensus of the student government re­port was that serious tensions exist between Notre Dame men and women and something should be done to improve these relations. While the stu­dents, faculty and administra­tion on the council all agreed that hall semi-formals provide positive social interaction, they disagreed on the effectiveness 

"THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN 
Buy One Pair -Get Another For A $1. 
Buy a complete pair of glasses (frames and lenses) 
CHRISTIANITY AND ISLAM" 
from our Fashion Collection and get another pair from our recently expanded Premium selection (same prescription) for just ONE DOLLAR! 
Offer Includes clear. plasfic, lenoes. No other discounts. prevoous orde". or >ale ~ems apply. Limrted Tim$ Offer. 
ALECTUREBYANWARZAmAL 
l l l l E. Ireland Road 291-4000 





page 4 
AP Photo 

Demonstration outside Holy Sepulchre 
Palestinian youths and women with the Palestinian flag demon­strate outside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre Tuesday in soli­darity with Christians after a house nearby was taken over by Jewish settlers. 

Panamanian vice president says U.S. must send aid 
By SANDRA WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
If the United States does not give financial aid to Panama­promptly, according to Pana­manian Vice President Ricardo Calderon, the contribution made by the U.S. to the libera­tion of Panama will have been of little merit. 
At a press conference at Notre Dame on Wednesday, Calderon said Panama "needs and expects" U.S. aid. George Bush's proposal of $500 million in aid to Panama is "a good proposal," he said. "We hope that Congress will approve the proposal, and approve it quickly." 
Calderon said that he believed 

U.S. 
military intervention in Panama had been justified, be­cause by that time it was clear that negotiation with Manuel Noriega would not lead to democratic reform, and that "collective diplomatic and polit­ical action" by Latin American countries or by the Organiza­tion of American States (OAS) was not forthcoming. 

Basic knowledge about the present state of Panama, which Calderon said he wanted the 

U.S. 
public to keep in mind, in­cluded the demilitarization that is taking place in the country now. 


Under Noriega the armed forces were unified to include an army, navy and air force consisting of approximately 16,000 people and a budget of about $150 million per year, he said. 
"We made the decision that Panama needed no army, no air force and no navy," said 
Calderon, "What it needed was 
four separate security organi­
zations of police nature." 
The security organizations 
have separate commands and 
budgets, and the positions are 
filled by about 13,000 people. 
The Panamanian government is proposing to the National Assembly a budget of $80 mil­lion for the military, "as indica­tion of the priorities of the new government," said Calderon. 
More emphasis will be placed on education and on social se­curity and public health, he said, which would receive $260 million and $590 million re­spectively if the budget pro­posal is accepted. 
Calderon also stressed that a major screening of former mili­tary members is taking place. Of former generals and colonels, 100% have been des­ignated "unable to render fur­ther service," he said; 83% of lieutenant colonels, 38% of ma­jors, 31% of captains, 19% of lieutenants, and 10% of sub­lieutenants have been dismissed 
as well. As a result of the dictatorship in Panama during the last two years, Calderon said, the coun­try's Gross National Product has declined by 25%. The level of unemployment is currently 30%, and the country has "one of the largest per capita public debts in the world." This debt totals about $6 billion for a population of around two mil­lion. "We are convinced that a major factor in overcoming this situation is our own work, but we need international aid," Calderon said. 
Have a 

KNOCKOUT 
Z1$t 




HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
" THIRD DEGREE " 
~~ 
Mom, Dad, Linda and Tim 

The Observer 
The Notre Dame Recyclin' Irish, created last year in an ef­fort to address the recycling problem on campus, have, in the past year, already recycled 20,000 pounds of aluminum. 
"I think that recycling is an important program because it teaches people that what they do as individuals can have (an) effect on environmental prob­lems," said James Dailey, founder of the Recyclin' Irish and president of the Environ­mental Action Club. 
According to Dailey, the Recy­clin' Irish was created last year, originating from a recy­cling project of the EAC. The club's primary goals were: to recycle aluminum, paper and glass; to involve the University administration in the program; and to make the program a permanent part of the Univer­sity. 
Indiana residents will get two days to voice their environmental worries to legislature 
Special to The Observer 
Indiana residents will have an extended opportunity to cele­brate Earth Day 1990, the 20­year anniversary of the begin­ning of the modern day Ameri­can environmental movement. 
Two days of activities on April 21 and 22--including a massive rally in Military Park on Saturday--will allow Hoosiers statewide to show their broad base support for cleaning up and protecting our Earth. 
A committee has been work­ing since August to stage "Celebration at the Crossroads of America," a day-long festival of music, speeches, entertain­ment and environmental ex­hibits being presented in coop­eration with White River State Park on Saturday, April 21. 
In addition, hundreds of indi­viduals and groups are plan­ning their own activities to co­
incide with the internationally hibits and displays .sponsored Line, (317) 356-2796. 
.-------------------------------------iii-111 
NOW OPEN TO ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS 

>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
FALL SEMESTER, 1990 1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 9:30, 11:00, 1:15 SECTIONS FOCUS: WRITING SKILLS 
SPEAKING SKILLS 
INTERPERSONAL SKILLS 
NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY FOR MORE INFORMATION AND/OR FOR REGISTRATION 
"We've made incredible strides up to this point," said Dailey. "From January last year, when there was just a marginal can collection process in some of the dorms, to this year. where we're collecting aluminum cans over most of the campus, and newspapers and glass over parts of it, it's a remarkable progress." 
In addition to the amounts of aluminum, the Recyclin' Irish have recycled 40,000 pounds of newspapers and 10,000 pounds of glass in the past year, said Dailey. 
The materials are picked up by Superior Waste Systems of South Bend and are processed 

organized Earth Day 1990 on Sunday, April 22. 
Steve Keller, co-chair of the Earth Day Indiana organizing committee, said, "The Saturday celebration is a great opportu­nity for the general public to demonstrate their desire for a cleaner, safer Indiana. Every­one wants a better environ­ment, but most people don't take the time or have the chance to show that support and tell their legislators how they feel. April 21, all of Indi­ana will have that opportunity. 
"As a side benefit, they'll ·be able to tour the booths, ex­
by the various environmental organizations, speak to mem­bers of those groups, learn about their activities and per­haps see a cause or a concern that they'd like to know about." 

Lori Bennett-Kolb, the committee's co-chair, adds, "The visitor may 1wen decide to get personally involved with one or two of those groups. There's a lot that needs to be done and the celebration will give people the chance to decide what they can do to, quite literally, help save the Earth. Even if they just leave with the commitment to plant a tree or buy recycled products, they'll have made that first step." 
The Earth Day Indiana committee formed several groups to carry the message of Earth Day to the community. If you'd like to get involved, call the Earth Day Indiana Hot 
Thursday, April 19, 1990 
for shipment to markets around the country depending upon prevailing prices, accord­ing to Dailey. 
"On campus, I would say 
've had an excellent response 
the program," said Dailey. "I think that more people should be aware that the stuff we recy­cle is not garbage." 
Despite the involvement of the University, Dailey admitted there is some work needed. 

"I think the University has taken a very active stance to this," said Dailey. "And while they have been very supportive of this, they haven't been willing in my opinion, to dedicate the amount of money and effort necessary to make it a full­fledged program." 
Dailey said the recycling in­volves aluminum cans in all dormitories and most campus buildings and newspapers in most dorms. Class recycling began in the Alumni-Senior Club. 
Thursday, April 19, 1990 The Observer page-s 


Tennis, anyone? 

Tim Sullivan (left} and John Pratte, Flanner Hall freshmen, walk back to their dorm after a tough practice at the Courtney Tennis Center. They are scheduled to play in the Non-Varsity Athletics lnterha\1 Team Tennis Tournament, to be held this weekend. 


Lecturer: Gorbachev faces many problems 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 

Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev is an open-minded, competent leader with an enormous amount 6f problems, said Ambassador Halph Earle in his lecture Wednesday. 
One of these problems is the present sjtuation in Lithuania. "However illegally it was brought into the Soviet Union, Lithuania has been a part of the Soviet Union for exactly fifty years," said Earle. lin compared, putting aside the il­legalities, Lithuania to Texas and that what Gorbachnv is presently saying to what Abra­ham Lincoln said in 1860. 
"Gorbachcv cannot afford to permit a member of the 
U.S.S.R.. by the vote of its local parliamcnt, to secede," said Earle. However, he continu­ously said that he hoped both countries would cool down a bit and work out a compromise. "I think they could cut a pretty good deal." said Earle. This deal would give Lithuania some autonomy. but would not serve as a precedent for other re­publics within the U.S.S.H., ac­cording to the ambassador. 
The U.S. will be involved in the situation in Lithuania. If Gorbachev gets tougher on Lithuania, Earle said the U.S. would be forced to act. lie said, "The Senate passed some ill­conceived resolutions that we must be tough on the Soviets, if they are tough on Lithuania." 
Earle also addressed the problem of chemical weapons. However, he said this was not a problem presented to the lJ .S. 
by the Soviets. but one from the third world countries. Chemical weapons can be produced within 48 hours and arn rnla­tively easy to make. 
Earle said the chemical weapons become "scary when I think about the Gadafi's of this wnrlrl " 
"The good news is that Gadafi is not w~tting a nudcar wnapon, the bad news is that North Korea is very dose to getting a nudear weapon," said Earle. U.S. and Soviet inten~sts coincide here and thern has been sharing of information on this subject aeeonling to him. 
Tlw failing economy was an­other major Sovi1~t problPm which Earle pointed out. An example he provided was the many soldiers without jobs and houses caused by Gorbarhev's withdrawal of troops from Western Europe. 
These problems will not take earn of tlwmsdves and tlw U.S. needs to worry about them a lot, said Earle. "Tiwy don't rwed financial aid. but adminis­trative assistance." lw said. The Soviets need lwlp with set­ting up a judiciary systmn and establishing marketing and production techniques, said the ambassador. 
Despite all of Gorbachnv's problems with his country, Earle continuously praised his competency. In support of this, hn pointed out Gorbachev being ahead on neological problems. 
Earle said that the bask mla­tionship between llw U.S. and the Soviet Union has changnd for the bnttnr, but lw warned that we eannot relax. 


Calllpus Ministry and You 


(N0PUS

----------------------MINISTRY­
AFRICAN AMERICAN ROMAN CATHOLIC EUCHARIST 
APRIL 25, 1990 7:00PM STEPAN CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESIDING CELEBRANT: ARCHBISHOP EUGENE MARINO ARCHDIOCESE OF ATLANTA HOMILIST: REV. FERNAND CHERI 
THE NOTRE DAME VOICES OF FAITH GOSPEL CHOIR WILL LEAD THE CONGREGATION IN SONG 
Come early to practice the music. A collection will be taken for the Sister Thea Bowman Foundation 

ALSO 
APRIL 26, 1990 7:30PM GRACE HALL UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A PANEL DISCUSSION ON THE ROLE OF DIVERSITY IN THE SETTING OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC EUCHARIST 
ALL ARE INVITED AND WELCOME 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Multi-Cultural Executive Council Notre Dame Office of Campus Minstry Sister Thea Bowman Foundation for the 
Education of Black> Catholic College Students 
Brought to you w.eldy bythe 011c1 or ~-llnlstry lnd The Obaervar 
page 6 



NO students can write to Senators for Earth Week 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN News Writer 
A legislative writing session is being held by the Environmental Action Club (EAC), as part of the Earth Week activities, on Friday, April 20, at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The letter campaign will be directed to Senators from the participants' home states, as well as to organizations within the United Nations and various corporations. 
According to James Dailey, president of the EAC, and chairman of the Earth Day Committee, the letters will ad­vocate issues such as protecting the earth's atmosphere by ban­ning all chlorofluorocarbons (CFC's), curtailing carbon dioxide emissions, and combat­ing acid rain, as well as health issues involving air quality. 
In addition, the letters will also support market incentive recycling bills, bills to increase protection of the remaining wildlife areas in the country, and the Clean Air BilL 
Daily said that the letter campaign would encourage "oil companies to develop alterna­tive fuels, automobile compa­nies to produce more efficient cars, and chemical companies to aim for zero pollution in all their production." 
"Anyone can participate. We welcome students, faculty, and staff," said Daily. Participants will be given form letters which they can use as a guide. Postage will be available at the writing session, which is from 
1:30 to 3 pm, in the esc this Friday. 
Ask one of the 3 million 
Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 

Weare 
. .


w1nrung. 
lAMERICAN 
WCANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 

The Observer Thursday, April 19, 1990 


Lithuania acted very hastily, diplomat says 
~.. 


This weekend lOPMFRIDAY 




at COR'1r_us 
~ ~lNG



l{f;/PJ! 

AP Photo 
Warcry 
Angry Indians shout anti-Pakistan slogans at a police barricade close to the Pakistan Embassy in New Delhi during a demonstra­tion against Pakistan Wednesday. Tension is growing between the two nations because of a Moslem insurgency in the disputed territory of Kashmir, in northern India. 
By MONICA~ Assistant News Editor' ·~ 
Lithuania has played " y unwisely" in declaring indepen­dence from the Soviet Union, according to Ambassador Ralph Earle. 
''They can't really be indepen­dent," said Earle, a specialist in Eastern European affairs and U.S.-Soviet relations. ''They don't have gas or oil of their own, and there is a significant Russian minority (within Lithuania) who do not want in­dependence." 
Lithuania may have acted hastily in declaring indepen­dence, Earle said. With the Cold War ending and Eastern Eu­rope moving closer to democ­racy, the republic may have gambled on its declaration. 
"There wasn't a lot of thought given to the conse­quences," he said at a Wednes­day press conference. 
Earle emphasized the dilemma Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev faces in dealing with Lithuania's seces­sion. Allowing the republic to gain independence is "a prece­dent he (Gorbachev) can't af­ford to permit," berause of the implications the decision could have on existing problems in other republics like Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan. 
Because Lithuania is part of the Baltic Republics, the coastal area where much of the Soviet air defense system is located, granting its independence could significantly alter Soviet na­
tional security. he said. 
But Gorbachev has publicly admitted that Lithuania was annexed illegally more than forty years ago, Earle said, an indication that the Soviet Union may be willing to compromise with the republic. 
Although the Soviet leader has recognized the fact that Lithuania was brought into the Soviet Union under illicit condi­
tions, he contends that the re­
public is still a part of the na­
tion, Earle said. He likened 
Gorbachev's statements on the 
Lithuanian situation to those of 
Abraham Lincoln in 1860 when 
faced with the South's seces­
sion. 
Gorbachev is not the only world leader coping with Lithuania's threat. The Bush administration too must con­sider both sides of the issue, while keeping in mind that it is the United States' goal to see Gorbachev succeed in restruc­turing his country, Earle said. 
If the Soviet Union uses force to restrain the republic, Ameri­can politicians will be put in a difficult situation. "There's no politician in Washington that can say it's all right for the So­viets to use force on Lithuania, even if they believe it's right (to do so)," he said. 
He said the Soviet Union is likely to make a deal with Lithuania, possibly granting semi-independence. Lithuania would be likely to "receive home rule, but the Soviet state would manage foreign affairs and would continue to play Lithua­nia's role in matters of national security," Earle said. 
Earle said he doubts the U.S. will intervenn in thn situation in any way other than cutting economic benefits or altering the Soviet Union's most favored nation status. Any other inter­vention "would be contrary to our own goal, which is to see Gorbachev succeed." 
Earle was involved in seven years of negotiations with the Soviets for the SALT II treaty. lie served as head of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and as senior U.S. civilian representative of the Department of Defense at NATO headquarters. 
SATURDAY: the 10-2 
~ DfiHCE PARTY 
> 
GET BUSY with our 
~ 
~ 
~ 
B'l~!tsrJi.1~ 
~ 



ATTENTION! 


FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES 
RECEIVING 

FINANCIAL AID 
FULFILL ALL OR PART OF YOUR REQUIRED WORK STUDY HOURS BY WORKING AT 
... 
FOR THE 1990-1991 ACADEMIC YEAR APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT IRISH GARDENS APPLICATIONS DUE WEDNESDAY APRIL 25, 1990 WE ARE ALSO ACCEPTING APPLICANTS FOR DELIVERY PEOPLE FOR NEXT YEAR. 
Basement of the LaFortune Student Center 12:30-5:30 Daily We deliver to ND, SMC, and HOLY CROSS. 
APWOBKS 

Thuffiday, April 19, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Colleges are asking ROTC to drop ban on homosexuals 
Wi\SIIINGTON (i\1') -Major Maj. Doug Hart said that be­removed from a campus as a univt~rsities are warning the cause the policy is being chal­result of the opposition. Pentagon that a military policy lenged in court tho department The HOTC, in the past year. barring homosexuals from ser­has limited respon · . to a writ­has denied several gay cadets vice is gnnnrating pressure to ten statement tlining the rea-their officer's commission and oust HOTC from campuses. sons for rring homosexuals. sought repayment of thousands 
"The contradiction between military contends that of dollars in scholarship the university's principle of ho wsexuality is incompatible money. non -discrimination against in­ith military service because of Until recently, gay men and dividuals on the basis of sexual the close quarters in which lesbians have been on their own orientation, and the presence of people of the same sex must in lighting the Pentagon policy. an HOT(: that dons discrimi­live and because of the security One such student, Hobert Bet­nate, cannot 1~xist on thn cam­risk posed by the possibility of tiker. was one semester from puses indnfinitldy," John a homosexual officer being graduation at MIT when he told Deutch. provost of the Mas­blackmailed. his superior that he was gay. sachusetts Institute of Toch­Top administrators, faculty Bettiker was denied his com­nology said in a lnttnr to Dn­groups and students from MIT. mission and asked to repay fense SntTI'tary Dick Cheney. the University of Wisconsin, $38,612 in scholarship money. 
"Many universities will with­University of Minnesota, The growing concern among draw from tlw HOTC program," Northwestern University and university officials confronts Deutch wrote. others have actively cam­the Department of Defense for 
The Department of Defense paigned against the Heserve Of­the first time with institutional has dedirwd to comment on the ficer Training Corps policy. opposition to the policy. campus pressure. No HOTC program has been In many instances, the oppo­

AP Photo 
Beds with Legs? 

Delivering goods. like large wooden beds, is but a small job for strong men in Nepal's capital Katmandu. Rugged Nepalese porters have transported everything from limousines to mountain climbers gear over the Himalayas, making a strong back the primary means of transportation. 
sition stems from explicit anti­"supportive but not optimistie" 
discriminatory provisions in that Congross could pass a law 
university charters. Wisconsin overriding the Pentagon policy. 
has a state law barring dis­i\t Northwestern University in 
crimination against homosexu­Evanston, Ill.. an ad hoc stu­
als. dent group called for the re­
The University of Wisconsin moval of the campus non: faculty senate voted in Decem­program and the student gov­ber to expel HOTC from campus ernment organization voted to because of its policy on homo­ban the program from using sexuals. The university regents university facilities and funds. refused to accept that proposal Neither recommendation was but told President Kenneth accepted by the administration. Shaw to lobby the state con­i\ faculty group at the Uni­gressional delegation, which in­versity of Minnesota urged cludes House Armed Services administrators to lobby Wash­Committee Chairman Les /\spin. ington Ia wmakers to chango a Democrat. ·the policy. 
"We want to see the law changed," Shaw said in a tele­"We really shouldn't be phone interview.•"We're not in­standing for discrimination at terested in getting out of any level," said Dick CaldecoU, ROTC." the university's liaison for ft~d­
Shaw said that /\spin was eral relations. 
United States must help Third World beat global problems, scientist says 
By JOHN CRONIN population control. lie believes News Writer that the United States must en­gage itself in helping to set up 
Daniel Luecke, senior scientist family planning centers in many for the Environmental Defense of the Third World countries. Fund, lectured Wednesday "In my opinion the United about global environmental is­States has backed off from a sues and the national security. commitmnnt to population con­
The major problem Luecke trol on a world scale and tlw sees is how to minimize the ad­U.S. has a responsibility of verse effects on the environ­getting back into the business," ment and still meet the needs addnd Lunckn. and comforts of the world's Helieving the debt burden people. Specifically this affects carried by Third World coun­the burning of fossil fuels, tries is also a top priority of which is the primary cause of Luecke's. "If the Third World the global warming trend. nations arn going to be able to Luecke stated that 50 years achieve a standard of living from now we will seo a one-to­that provides some measun• of four-degree Celcius increase in dignity it is going to rPquirP global temperature. some measuro of industrializa­
"In history there has never tion." said l.twcke. been a global change which has occurred so rapidly," added According to Luecke tlw Luecke. With this statistie in United States must play a role mind, Luecke said, the problem in setting up efficient industry is how we can increase the nn­which uses less energy in tlw ergy uso in the developing cowl­Third World countries. "If we tries when minimizing global don't help, then no matter what warming? we do at home to reduce emis­
Luecke stated that he did not sions of carbon dioxides will be have a specific answer to the offset rather quickly by emis­pressing environmental prob­sions elsewhere," said Luecke. lems, but several suggestions which may help. Luecke feels "}Jere at home one of the best that the problems requirn more measures we can take is to put than research right now, but a dollar tax on every gallon of rather action. fuel that is imported, for opl~n­
The top agenda Luecke sees is ers,"added Luecke. 
GOD GIVES EACH OF US ONE LIFE 
WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH YOURS? 
Have you considered 
lH~ HOlY C~O~~ CANDIDAH nA~1 
A one year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame Tor college graduates interested in exploring ministry as aHoly Cross priest or brother. Scholarship grants are available. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Focus 
on 
America's 
Future 


D---:---0 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Supportth• 
~ ~!9b£LQ!Q1~ 
as seen on the

9:30PM 
THURSDAY at COMEDIAN WALLI COLLINS half hour Comedy Hour 



NIGHTCLUB 
Free sports bottles to the the first 100 people through the door 
page 8 The Observer Thursday, April 19, 1990 
National Library Week Hostages 
continued from page 1 
wouldbeatsunsetFriday.
In the photograph, TJ.Irner, 42, was squinting behind his heavy-framed glasses. He had a dark beard and was wearing a 
white T -shirt. He stood with his arms at his side, against a background of a patterned blue cloth. 
The kidnappers said the deci­sion to release a hostage came in response to behests from Iran and Syria. Iranian news­papers associated with Rafsan­jani have urged the hostages be released on humanitarian 
grounds. More radical elements in Iran have called hostage­taking a means of confronting the West. 
The statement added: "We have decided to move the hostages affair forward by re­leasing an American hostage within 48 hours on the basis of reciprocal moves to accomplish what is required to accelerate the happy ending. 
"We want the humanitarian move to be balanced between both sides. This is a condition to move forward. Otherwise there is no meaning for a one­sided movement." 
"We have responded to the behests, hoping to reach a solu­tion as proposed and on the basis of the verbal message that will be conveyed to Presi­dent Bush. We are ready to re­ciprocate o scalate. The other side has to choo 
The sentence ap ared to indicate that an exchan was involved and that the fr , d hostage would carry a message for Bush. 
The Islamic Jihad for the Lib­eration of Palestine. believed made up of pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem extremists, threatened in its last statement March 15 to kill the three hostages unless the United States met unspeci­fied demands. It also threat­ened attacks on airlines flying Soviet Jewish immigrants to Is­rael. 
The group previously offered to trade the three professors for 400 Arab inmates held in Israeli jails. Israel rejected the swap. 
The statement did not indi­cate what prompted the group to change its hard-line stance. 
Turner taught mathematics and computer science at Beirut University College. His Lebanese wife, Badr, is visiting her family in the United Arab Emirates along with her daughter, Joanna, born five months after her father's abduction. 
Turner's mother, Estelle Ronnenburg of Boise. told The Associated Press that she felt hope tempered with caution. 
"I do feel full of hope," Mrs. Ronnenburg said. "But I talked 

· to the State Department and they told me that they are checking things out and not to let myself get too worked up, because we have had rumors like this before that have not worked out." 
Polhill. 55, ofNew York, was a lecturer in accounting. 
His Lebanese wife, Feryal, reached by telephone at the university, told The Associated Press: "I shall live on my nerves until it happens. May God help me." 
Steen. born in Arcata, Calif., and a former resident of Boston, turns 51 Sunday. 
His wife, Virginia Rose. of Jackson, Mich., who also taught at the university, now lives in the United States. 

comes to Notre Dame 
By MICHAEL OWEN News Writer 
The Hesburgh Memorial Li­brary will be participating in National Library Week, April 22 -28, by establishing a bot­line open to suggestions, raf­fling free database services and generally "helping the commu­nity realize the value of a li­brary," according to Robert Miller, director of University Libraries. 
National Library Week also brings attention to the quality and improvements of a library. The biggest improvement in the library system recently at Notre Dame has .been the automation of circulation which has made finding materials easier for both users and staff members, according to Miller. 
The library currently uses the UNLOC system of computerized circulation information and several "CD­ROM" machines that hold mostly periodical literature on compact disks. "Approximately 95 percent of our holdings are currently on UNLOC," Miller said. UNLOC stands for the University of Notre Dame Libraries' On-line Catalog. 
Another important improve­ment in the library has been new acquisitions. Miller said that the library recently "purchased major collections of the Irish Rebellion of 1798, and authors Samuel Beckett and Edward Gorey." 
Miller pointed out some other major changes in the library that are not quite as visible. Miller said that recently the li­brary staff has been "devoting a lot more attention to collec­tion space problems in the li­brary." 
A third improvement is greater attention paid to the preservation of the library's holdings. Miller cited acidifica­tion and deterioration of books as two major problems for the library. "Research libraries have always been in danger of having almost 50 percent of their collections literally crum­bling within 10 to 20 years," Miller said. 
The use of microfilm, the re­binding of books, and minor book repairs are all efforts cited by Miller that are cur­rently used to preserve the holdings. 
The Associated Press re­ported in March that a collec­tion of various libraries' books had been seized in Ottumwa, Iowa, and may have included some books from Notre Dame. "A list of what is missing from our collection has been sent to the investigators in Iowa and we will go from there. This is always a slow process," Miller said. 
Miller also mentioned another theft in Los Angeles where the FBI arrested a man who had some Notre Dame material. This theft is "of a much smaller scale, but we hope to get them back soon." 
The shift toward an increas­ingly research-oriented univer­sity will have some affects on the library, according to Miller. "This trend is evidenced by the increased use of the Inter-Li­brary Loan system," Miller said. 
The library has been re­sponding to this new trend in various ways, according to Miller. The library recently purchased a system called 'TLG' for use with the CD-ROM system. It allows enormous amounts of text to be stored on disks. One part of TLG that the library has been working with is the text of almost all Greek writings to 600 A.D.. Another one contains all of the works of William Shakespeare and sev­eral 19th and 20th century writers. 
When asked what he felt were the greatest assets of the Hesburgh Library, Miller said that the library's collection of Dante's work is "one of the best in the country." Irish lit­erature, medieval research, lit­erature on American Catholi­cism, and sports research are several other of the greatest possessions of the library, Miller said. 

ATTN: ALL THOSE WITH AN INTEREST IN THE MIDDLE EAST: 
DO YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ON THIS TROUBLED REGION? THEN ATTEND PI SIGMA ALPHA'S 2ND WORLD EVENTS RAP SESSION ON CURRENT ISSUES OF THE MIDDLE EAST 
COME AND DISCUSS THESE ISSUES WITH PROFESSORS DOWTY AND GAFFNEY THURSDAY, APRIL 19th, 7:00pm IN LEWIS HALL 
QUESTIONS? -SALLY x1120 or MICHELLE x2542 
.: . . . 
·····~~·~-· ~ 
======·····== 



COLLEG~~ 
GRADUATE FINANCE 
PLAN 
Jordan's Auto Mall 

YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
609 E. Jefferson YOU'VE EARNED IT. Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
Pizza Hut"Delivers on CampusFast, Hot and Free! 

©1990 Pizza Hut, Inc. 
Limited De&very Area

FAST FREE DELIVERY Call: 232-2499 

Piua Hut is a registered trademark of Pizza Hut. Inc. 

Large Cheese Pizza

$600 
Toppings Extra Available on Pan, Hand-Tossed Traditional or Thin 'N (rispf Pizza VALID ON DELIVERY OR CARRYOUT 
Offer Expires May 30,1990 
: ~~ 1 ~4~ 

: ~~ 
I
I 

@1990 

6-Pack Pepsi-Cola®




fR E E 

with the P.Urchase of any Pairs"' or Large Pizza at regular price. 
VALID ON DEUVERY OR CARRYOUT 
Offer expires MAY 30, 1990 

Plta111111fl" ...... w1o11 .-..,. 6nt IIXIpGfl par p!l1y par ~lit a1 ~~ combination with any other Pizm Hut® offer. PaiB ~a trademark ~~ pcrtfdpaling l'inaiM" r.-01115. Hal .did in mrnlinatioo wilh 111y other of Pizza Hut, Inc. Pep1i-Cola ~a relJ~tered trademark of l'iuaiM" aller. ® doliproul9slared kadomarks of Aua Hul,lnt Lin~ed ' 1 Pepsi-Co., Inc. Umited delivety area. Our driveB carry no more ' 
doi..,yaroo. Otr mi""arrynomortrhlll S20.00. l/20c cuslulldetr,lioo than $20.00. I/20C cash redemption value. vofuo. ©1990 l'izzatu, 1nt DEUVERY I ©1990 Pizza Hut, Inc. DELIVERY 
cmJ: 232-2499 I Call: 232-2499 
Please montlon coupon when ordering. One coupon per ponyI per v~it at participating Pizza Hut® r8ltauran~. Not valid in
I 

....~............~............~..-----.------------~~-----------------------------------------------------------­
page 9

Thursday, April 19, 1990 The Observer 




/Business 
Ford rebate LoWest U.S. trade deficit in six years reported 
targets graduates 
Tht1 Ford Motor Company has announced a College Graduate Purchase Program that can make it easier and less expensive for O()W grad­uates to buy or lease a 1990 or t 991 model Ford or Mer­cury car, Ford light truck or 19R9 Mercury Tracer. 
Participants in the pro­gram receive a $500 rebate, and are permitted to take advantage other current in­centives being offered (except Ford Employee Pur­chase Plans and the First Time Buyer Program). The program also includes pre­approved eredit amounts from Ford Motor Credit Company for eligible Ford and Mercury vehicles. 
All graduating seniors earning bachelors degrees are flligible to participate. as well as students graduating with advanced degrees. Ve· hiclos must be purchast)d or leased from dealer stock be· tween April l, t 990 and De­cember 31. 1990 or factory ordered by October 1, 1990. 
The $500 cash rebate may be received as a direct pay­ment from Ford or applied to the purchase. For those who finance through Ford Credit. no so-signature or down payment Is required if the delivorod price of the ve· hide falls below thP pre-ap­proved credit amount for that vf'hicln. 
Students wanting more in­formation should call the pi'Ogram's toll-free tele­phone numbPr: 1-800-321· 1536. 


'Environmentally responsible' companies form trust 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States in February recorded its smallest trade deficit in more than six years, a $6.49 billion imbalance that reflected a sharp drop in oil imports, the government reported Wednesday. 
The Bush administration, which is counting on strong export growth this year to boost a sluggish domestic economy. hailed the dramatic narrowing of the deficit. 
But some private economists cautioned that the improvement could be short-lived. 
The Commerce Department said February's trade gap was down 30 percent from a $9.32 billion January deficit. It was the best trade showing since December 1983, when the deficit was $5.68 billion. 
Imports fell by 7.6 percent, to $38.12 billion, while U.S. exports totaled $31.63 billion, a modest 1 percent decline from an all-time high for exports set in January. 
Michael Boskin, President 
Bush's chief economic adviser, 
called the trade figure "very 
good news indeed" while 
cautioning that "we can't tell 
yet the extent to which it is a 
temporary ,or permanent 
phenomenon. 
Some private economists remained pessimistic, contending that February's good showing came primarily from a huge 20 percent drop in oil imports that's not likely to be sustained. 

With U.S. domestic oil production at 25-year lows, many economists look for America's dependence on foreign oil to continue rising, 
thus  holding  back  
improvements  in  the  trade  
deficit.  
Last  year's  trade  deficit  

totaled $109 billion and many analysts are looking for the figure to deteriorate this year, reflecting a higher oil bill and weaker export growth because 
of the strength of the U.S. dollar. 
A stronger dollar makes U.S. goods less competitive in overseas markets. 
"It's nice to have a low number for February, but it would certainly be a mistake to conclude that our competitiveness problems have disappeared and everything is now terrific for us on international markets," said Lawrence Chimerine, senior economic adviser at the WEFA Group, an economic consulting company in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. 
But Bruce Steinberg, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, said he believed the trade deficit would shrink further this year, falling below $100 billion for the first time since 1983. 
He said America's trade fortunes were being helped by strong demand in Western Europe, the primary market for 
U.S. exports. 
While the trade balance with Japan worsened in February, rising to $3.12 billion, the United States ran a $1 billion trade surplus with Western Europe. 
"We have gone from running big trade deficits with Western Europe to being in rough balance and everything is in place to start running big surpluses," Steinberg said. 
The deficit with Japan, which accounted for half or 

,... II C' n ... _, -1 ,..~ '" 
"~'P"ebruary's total imbalance, is coming as the Bush administration applies heavy pressure on the government of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu to open Japanese markets to more American products. Regardless of their view about future trade prospects, economists agreed that February's improvement would significantly boost overall economic growth for the first three months of the year. In the final three months of 1989, the GNP grew at a sluggish 1.1 percent rate. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The only kind of green Wall Street usually cares about has nothing to do with saving the planet. 
But with Earth Day approaching, Merrill Lynch & Co. has formed an investment trust comprised of what it calls "environmentally responsible" companies. Merrill even printed literature for the trust on recycled paper in green, biodegradable ink. 
The scheme by the nation's largest brokerage is among latest attempts since last year's Exxon Valdez oil tanker spill to capitalize on investor demand to make money while showing concern about the environment. Other "socially responsible" investment funds have existed since 1970. 

But in the rush to jump on the enviro-bandwagon, environmentalists have criticized several new funds for investing in companies with track records Mother Nature wouldn't be proud of. 
"It's not just investing in companies that are dealing with environmental cleanup. It's dealing with companies that are themselves environmentally responsible," said Carsten Henningsen, president of Progressive Securities Financial Services, a Portland, Ore., investment adviser. 
To avoid pitfalls and criticism, Merrill hired four outside environmental groups to help set up its "Eco-Logical Trust 1990." Merrill denies seeing the environmental movement as one more fad from which it can make a buck, and independent environmentalists praised Merrill's handling of the issue. 
"We really thought it was a way to call attention to the 
environmental movement and 
to companies that are doing the 
right thing," Michael Perini, companies to make money out of the environment -by telling the truth about it," said Peter Camejo, president of Progressive Asset Management in Oakland, Calif. 
Merrill's  director  of  unit  
investment  trusts,  said  
Wednesday.  
"This is the way  we  want  

Camejo, a critic of some environmental funds who helped set up the Merrill trust, alerted Merrill last year that some of the pollution control companies in a trust formed after the Alaska oil spill were polluters themselves. 

atellite dishes to make a comeback in the next decade 
A few years ago, before the ten-foot gizmo on our cations Association reports that is currently received by
BY LOUIS RUKEYSER
roof was not exactly her that sales last year climbed most U.S. dish-owners.
cable television came to the idea of Better Homes and Tribune Media Services back above 350,000 systems, General Electric hasrural neck of the woods Gardens. I caved in and, like and the new uptrend seems announced a $100 millionwhere I was living, I bought the rest of the world, eral Instrument, Channel to be in its early stages. Per­joint venture with a group of

a satellite dish. It was fun for a while: catching the subscribed to cable. Master, Zenith and Chappa­haps surprisingly, the recov­the nation's largest cable 
ral had sold and installed
unedited network feeds and Now comes word that my ery was sparked in part by companies to begin limited watching superficially pleas­capitulation may have been about two million of the 8-the very programmers, such Ku-Band programming 
premature. Bolstered by new to 12-foot dishes on roofs or within the next year. A
ant anchormen explode at as HBO, Showtime and 
technology and a change of in back yards-fully 800,000
their makeup artists, seeing Turner Broadcasting, who second Ku-Band project,
in 1985 alone. In 1986, how-­
movies and sports events heart by some of the pro­had shaken the industry with involving NBC, Cablevision, intended for other eyes, grammers themselves, home ever, as word spread that scrambling. These pro­Rupert Murdoch's News 
satellite television appears the dishes were no longer Corp. and General Motors'
peeking at the parliamentary grammers and other 
poised for a significant pulling in free, unscrambled 
maneuvers of foreign lands. "packagers" now offer home Hughes Communications,
movies, demand dropped so
comeback. At the least, it aims a planned one billion
In the end, though, it was satellite subscribers deals 
will greatly expand the op­precipitously that many an­
more trouble than it was comparable or lower in price dollar investment at 
tenna and receiver manufac­
tions available to the aver­broadcasting to even
worth-and not just because to those offered to cable
turers closed their doors­
the broadcasters began to age homeowner over the subscribers. A package of smaller, napkin-sized flat 
and sales fell below 250,000. 
next decade. "dishes" by 1994.
scramble their signals. The premium movie services, ba­
Meanwhile, the broadcast­
technology was The industry, based on sics and superstations typi­These advances, combined 
ers, for their part, were irri­
cumbersome: first you had home-grown American tech­cally costs around $25 a with a more sophisticated
tated by the proliferation of
to find the right satellite -nology, was born in the mid-month. scrambling system, are ex­
satellite "pirates," who com­
(from a choice of 14), then 1970s when cable TV com­But the real breakthrough, pected to make satellite re­
promised the encryption or 
you had to locate the right panies found it unfeasible to which industry observers be­ception cheaper, move con­
scrambling system by mak­
channel on the satellite, then wire some 20 million, mostly lieve could lead to as many venient-and less piratable­
ing modifications to the le­
you had to get the right rural homes. What seemed as 12 million home satellite as the decade unfolds. Those 
gal, industry-standard de­
"polarity" (horizontal or to many the kiss of death systems in place by 1999, is who can't get more conven­
scrambler manufactured by
vertical). Network came four years ago when on the equipment side-in­tional reception, or TV fa­
General Instrument and ac­
anchormen have been fired cable programmers like HBO cluding the advent of natics who find even the 
cessed the scrambled pro­
in less time than that took. and Showtime began cheaper and smaller multiplicity of choices on
gramming while avoiding
Besides, I was caught scrambling their signals, to parabolic antennas, which cable too limiting for their
payment.

between the technicians, who prevent unauthorized (and are already in use in Europe eclectic tastes, may find that
Today. however, there
maintained that if I really uncompensated) viewing by and Japan. The new technol­in 1990s television the sky's
have been turnarounds in
wanted decent reception I dish owners. ogy is called Ku-Band, a the limit, after all. 
both marketing attitudes
had to chop down four trees, At that point such equip­higher power transmission
and technology. The Satellite 
and my wife, who thought ment manufacturers as Gen-process than the C-Band
Broadcasting and Communi­

Viewpoint
p_agf3_10 Thursday, April 19, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-ln-Chlet Alison Cocks Managing Editor Busin... Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertlalng Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle DaJI Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sport• Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Syatema Mgr .... Bemard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric BaJiey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'a Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controllar....................... Chrla Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediiOrlaJs represent the opinion of the majority of the EdiiOr·ln·Chlef, Managing EdiiOr, News Editor, VIewpoint EdiiOr, Accent Editor, Photo EdiiOr, and Salnt Mary's EdiiOr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available 10 all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

LETTERS 
Black unity does not shun whites 
Dear Editor: some level, or they would have about their fate (their color). 
If more blacks took the time gone to an all black school. It is Not this black woman! When to educate themselves about unreasonable to ask for total Lewis said she felt like a white who they are, then there would integration because some peo­person trapped in a black body, not be an abundance of black ple are still being smacked by my heart had to go out to her. people running around eager to the rippling effects of slavery. What is so wrong with a black claim any race as their own, For those that do integrate body? Nothing! I see millions of but the black race. The black fully, that is fine too, but be­people all too willing to risk culture has been around longer neath it all, the black commu­cancer to have their skin color than any other; we built the nity does care about each closer to mine. I see white pyramids that cannot be repli­other; and whether you go to women braid their hair over cated; we endured slavery, and every event (Black Cultural Arts breaks, excited to come back to still some blacks cannot stand Council) or not, they like to camnus to show it off. I am tall. If only they understood know that you're okay, and only too proud to be black, and their past, then they could care about what's going on. I find an abundance of beauty make sense of the present and Just because blacks recognize in the black race as in any entertain the idea of a promis­each other and choose to inter­other race. ing future. act with one another does not Lastly, I address Lewis' com­
Upon reading "Black stereo­mean that they are shunning ment about the awareness of types abound at Notre Dame" whites, or anyone else. Cultural race within oneself as the only(The Observer. April 9,) there likenesses bring some blacks necessary ingredient, and it is a was one emotion that rang together, and, unless I am mis­valid point. I would like to add through my anger--compas­taken, I thought that it was our to it. Regardless of how black sion. First of all, there was differences that made a diverse anyone is, and whether they anger because Lewis belittled world a better world. admit to being black or not, my race and reduced it to a Too much weight is given to none of them would be here (at mere misfortune. I realize that blacks dining and associating Notre Dame) if it were not for she reflected on her past expe­with one another in groups. Let the persistence of past leaders riences, but the negative mes­me use my soccer team analogy such as Dr. King. I only hope sage she sent only served to here. If there were a soccer that they will remember that confuse the already confused team, and all of the members our race, on a whole, has not Notre Dame community. were familiar with one another yet reached its goals and, thus, 
I felt compassion because I because they wore alike shirts we should not forget those of could not grasp the fact that and could easily recognize one our race who are less fortu­Lewis really thought she was a another, of course they would nate. white person in a black body. I come to know each other I leave all (blacks) with this. wondered if the content of our through spending time with one Do not be afraid of what whites characters had colors. Lewis another even if it were only on can do to you, for they have said that she wasn't really an impersonal level. It has been tried their best. They have black. because. after all, she my experience to find that killed your bodies, but never was an intelligent person who groups of people spending time could kill you soul. In churches, had always integrated with together often bond. I cannot in books, and here even todaywhites. speak for every black person, (at Notre Dame) you are very
Perhaps Lewis did not realize but, as for myself, I easily rec­much alive. Only fear what we that she called all of the blacks ognize my black friends and am can do to ourselves. I tell youwho do not care for total inte­comfortable with my acquain­nothing new. Black people
gration unintelligent. Some tances. Being black does not know yourselves, because when 
people can easily integrate mean that you have to like every you know yourself. no one can 
based on their background, or black person. You don't even tell you who you are! God Bless 
perhaps an easy-going disposi­have to eat at the same black us All. .. (that's everyone). 
tion, but other people cannot table if you don't like. It really 
and may never be able to inter­is this simple, and the issue has Sherry-Ann Morris 
act on that level. Yet everyone been made more complicated Siegfried Hall 
here is willing to integrate on than necessary. April 18, 1990 
Lewis' article made it appear DOONESBURY as though blacks are miserable 

Observer reinforces stereotypes; misleading caption is unexplained 
Dear Editor: sacred part in the formation of 
I am writing in response to a opinions of the American peo­photograph and caption ple, abusing its position? printed in The Observer on I am not only enraged, but Tuesday, April 17, 1990. On extremely saddened. I am not a page 7 appeared a picture of confirmed anti-American. I two crying individuals, entitled, think America can be beautiful. "Children grieve for their slain It has the money and power to 
father." The caption reads, save our world. But vast human "The children of slain hostage resources, at least on campuses Mushir ui-Haq Cry in New such as this one, are not being Delhi, India. Haq, who was fully tapped. Intellectually, this vice-chancellor of Kashmir university is a gold mine. But if University. was one of three the mind is not challenged, it hostages killed by Moslem se­will revel in what it thinks is cessionists." There is no ac­true knowledge. companying story explaining The Observer, and other the situation in its entirety. newspapers, have a responsibil­
The only way this caption can ity to enhance the American ed­be interpreted by an unsuspect­ucation. But if statements such ing non-Moslem is to think, "0, as this caption, or those identi­Moslems--those radicals who fying criminals in Security Beat go around waving the sword of as "black males," continue to Islam and killing innocent peo­be printed randomly, then ple." An unexplained caption stereotypes will be reinforced in such as this one not only mis­the minds of otherwise intelli­leads the readers, but it per­gent. compassionate human petuates ignorance of a people beings. and a way of life that is foreign This is a plea to make people to them. think about what they read in 
Why are Americans (on this the paper, and to evaluate it for campus in particular, but else­themselves instead of taking where in general) settling for the type-set, printed word as an this sort of misrepresentation end in itself. of issues they are not familiar with? Why are the people let­ting the media be their opinion? lluma Ehtisham And why, when the media Badin Hall knows its integral and possibly April 18, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'One man can make a difference and every man should try.' 



Accent
Thursday, April 19, 1990 page 11 
j 

a murder mystery by 
those involved with it. The pri­
MARC JOHNSON 
mary reason behind the pro­
accent writer 

duction involves the funds that will be raised for DismasThe Flanner-Siegfriml llall House, but the other reasonl'lay1~rs will be performing might not be as obvious.
Agatha Christie's "Mousetrap" Agatha Christie
on April 20 and 21 in thP J:<uller would like to sen theLibrary Auditorium. The pro­North Quad develop some of theduction will bP at HP.M .. and older traditions found on thetlwn~ will be no admission. 

South Quad. "Yes, I would like Donations, hownv1~r. will be to make our futurn productionsLakPn to benelit l>ismas llouse, comparable to the Fisherwhich is a South Bend rharity Hegatta or the Morissey Film that allows reforming criminals Festival, but we realize that wea rhance to lead produetiw are still in the incubationlives in mainstn~am society. 
stage." "Tiw Mousetrap" is a murrlnr 
Nine students eomposn thnmystPry which Lakes place at cast, and many others playedMonkswell Manor. 1111e hour major rolns in the production.
from London. Molly and (;ilns Diane Withum served as assis­Baulston host four guests. Mrs. 
tant director, Davn BlerschBoyiP, Christopher Wren, Major served as stage manager, andMPtnlll'. and I.PsliP CasewPII. 
Hache! Bamberger was in charge of sets. "The work ofThe party is surprisNI by two thes•~ three was essential. andsurprisP guPsts. Mr. l'aravidni the production could not haveand Detnetiw TroUPr, who ar­gone on without thmn," saidrive to investigate a murder. 
Fuller. Others who aid1~d in the
WhiiP Llwy arp inw~stigating tlw 
process arn Tim Schorn andoriginal murder, howPvnr, an­publieity man Ian Mitchell.
ollwr 0111' ocrurs in their prns­PnrP. Nothing morp can be rn­The production has bnen un­waiPd of tlw plot, but it does dnrtaknn with much nnthusi­forus on the inwstigation of asm, and the results will obvi­
thPSI~ nwrcfl~rs. 
ously prove this. The plot is very interesting, but the butlerStPVP FuiiPr, who sPrvPd as did not do it-"The Mousntrap"both thP dirertor and produePr does not have one. The mur­of tlw play, listed a number of derer will be known only toreasons that he felt tlw produc­those who s1~e the play.
tion was wry important to 
N D Chorale and Orchestra to perform Mendelssohn's 'Elijah' 
MARC JOHNSON 
accent writer 

Tlw University of Notre I>anw Chorale and Ordwstra will per­form Felix MPndelssohn's ora­torio "t•:lijah" on April 21 and 
22. Tlw April 21 pprformanen will take place in Washington llall at H p.m., while tlw April 22 pPrformance will tak1~ place at tlw First Presbyterian Church in Ni11~s at fdO p.m. 
The admission will be $3 for students and $5 for non-stu­dents. 
The conductor for these per­formances will be Carl Stam, who has direeted the Chorale since joining the Notre Damn faculty in 19H 1. lin is currently director of thn Notrn Dame Glee Club, and tnadwr of dasses in eondueting and choral litera­ture. 
Under the direction of Stam will be four distinguished soloists. Baritone Leonard Van Camp will play the title role of Elijah, while soprano Doris Stam, mezzo-soprano Christina Seavey-Alves, and tenor Patrick Gorman will also be featurnd soloists. 
An oratorio is a musical composition based on a Biblical story that is usually from the Old Testament. This particular oratorio focuses on the time and life of Elijah. During the course of the production, the audience realizes that the peo­ple are suffering a terrible drought at the hands of God. The drought is a punishment for their worship of pagan idols; and by the end of the first act, 
.God is persuaded by Elijah to 
relieve the torment of his 
people by creating a rain storm. 
The second act deals with other biblical tales. Thn play culminates in Elijah's ascension to heaven in a fiery chariot. 
The production is approxi­mately two hours long. For thosn who have not seen an oratorio, the nxpnrinnce is a new and nxciting one. The pro­duction is much like a play, but without thn scenery. The overall experience is not that of a normal concert. but it is deli­nitely worthwhile. 

"Best New American Band" -Rolling Stone Reader's Poll 
The BoDeans 
with special guest, Big Shoulders 
Friday, April 20 8 p.m. Valparaiso University, Valparaiso, IN 
Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk or at the door. 
$10 general admission 
-
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April.19, 1990 
Oakland will talk with Davis about Raiders' return to city 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -The referendum to spike the plan. Haskell, one of the three offi-one" in talks with the NFL a proposal and, in myOakland City Council, bowing to Nearly 32,000 signatures have cials who voted against the team, but a leading backer of judgment, the prospects of angry constituents, has backed be~n collected, aimed at getting original deal. thej>lan was not hopeful. having the Raiders play football away from the $428 million the; question on a ballot this The Raiders weren't on the "Tite deal has been killed," here are very dim." deal to bring the Raiders back year. council's official agenda Alameda CQ__u_~ty Board of Although the council also to their original home. But it "This is an issue in which the Tuesday night, so another vote Supervisor_s ~irman Don called for new talks with the also called for new talks with time has come for the commu-will have to be taken, as re-Perata said after the council team, it was unknown whether owner AI Davis. nity to come together ... to try quired by state law. vote. "The council, by its action, the Raiders still were willing to 
The 6-0 vote came Tuesday to work it through," said Observers said the latest vote has formally terminated our negotiate. Davis did not return night under the threat of a local Councilwoman Marge Gibson meant "going back to square agreement. We no_ longer have telephone calls for comment-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY TO FIFTH FLOOR FLANNER, Congratulations,I READING BOOKS! $32,000/year ( PERSONALS THE FISHER QUAD +2, AND ALL ANGIE CALABRESE 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
income potential. Details. (1) 602-MY FRIENDS HERE AT SMC 
Good luck presenting your TYPING term 838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. SPRING BREAK-DAYTONA 1990 START YOUR NEW CAREER (YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE): research at the American papers/reports/letter/resumes. WITH A NEW CAR! THANKS FOR MAKING MY 20TH Chemical Society meeting Pick up & delivery available. 277-ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT BIRTHDAY SO AWESOME! in Boston! 
A Two Hour Video. See What You We have special financing for SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Saw or See What You Missed.
5134 Cathy. employed graduates. YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST! -The ND American Chemical 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, $17.95 plus $2.00 handling and Call: Gary Erb LOVE, CHRIS. Society Student Affiliates WORDPROCESSING Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-shipping. 1-800-633-1639. At: Gates Toyota 272-1837 602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 237-4999 BETH SEALL, Top Quotes from Charleston 
"Realistic" AM/FM stereo receiver. HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY. YOU'RE 1. Ya know ... you remind me of a ALASKA SUMMER 60 watts per channel. Great PHISH IS COMING!! A REAL WOMAN NOW. janitor $$$FOR TEXTBOOKS! EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. condition but MUST SELL! $175 WED. APRIL 25 LOVE, KIM, SHEILAH, RENEE, 2. GET TO KNOW ME!! PANDORA'S BOOKS $5,000+/month! Over 8,000 or b.o. Call 271-5686. MAGGIE & COLLEEN. 3. What are wedgies? Corner of NO ave and Howard openings. Free transportation! 4. The Body 0' Christ 233-2342 Room & Board! No experience EARTH DAY 5. It was a mutual whamo 
1979 MGB convertible, British 
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. EARTH DAY SUMMER OR FIT JOB: ND family 6. Bottom of the seventh and two
Racing Green, AM/FM radio, 

Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box EARTH DAY in Chicago area looking for Nanny down
excellent condition, 54,000 miles, 
84008, Seattle, WA 98124-for 18mo boy. Live in or out. Top 7. For goodness sakes ...
$4,300. Call277-6551. 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Satisfaction Guaranteed. ••••• CLASS OF 1991 ••••• pay. Call (708) 433-1628. 8. The water wouldn't stop rising! MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 9. That's it, man ... game over' 
LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST. 
Today! Get your Junior Class UNLV 10. So that's what the plastic LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! FOR RENT Scrapbooks in Montgomery Too bad those cute buns of yours applicator is tor.
Rent. Condo in Historic Bldg For 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Theatre from 2-5pm or in either didn't move faster-but you tried! 11 . Is Heather ugly? 
Sale. 1 0 mins. to Wash. U & SLU 
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. dining hall during dinner. Maybe next year . I'll still love you 
Fum. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Med Ctrs & Main Campuses. 

On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. Quantities are limited at the low guys anyway. Hi Mary Marianne and Mary 
Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand Spacious Rehab w/Appliances & 
277-6245 price of $8 so don't miss out! Karen Allison! Hope you have a great day 
V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234-More. Call 271-8242. 

Remember also that Senior Board and please remember to stay3831.
PRO-LIFE DAY applications are due tomorrow in away from the candy. No fat 
1978 VW HATCHBACK RABBIT. 
APRIL 19, 1990 the Class Office. EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN chicks!!!
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? EXCELLENT CONDITION. AC. 
Check Thursday's Ad for details!!! See the future of the Catholic Wayne
SUBLET A TURTLE CREEK 61,000 MILES. 272-1134. 

Church: the ordination of Women. 
APARTMENT!! BEAUTIFUL, 

Dick Holliday and the Bamboo PICTURESQUE, AND MORE ... 1989 DODGE OMNI Lost and Found 
hi ag Gang coming May 2 to SMC! CALL KELLY AT 4985 OR JULIE LIKE NEW CONDITION LOST: At the Senior Formal, rny 
AT 287-9378 NOW!! LOW MILEAGE Do you like to read ? Bring 
SMC EARTH DAY FESTIVAL THIS 5SPEED your books to CLUB 23 !
date lost his Notre Dame 

SAT., APRIL 21, 1-5 pm, FIELD 6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. AM FM CASSETIE
monogram ring. If you found a Class of 1991. Get involved during 
SOUTH OF MADELEVA-with 1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 4600.00 CALL 2333458 'MO'
men's ring anywhere, please call your Senior Year at ND. We need 
bands, dancing & food!! Save the 234 6688 or 234 5041 . 
Kristen at #2670. The ring is very people interested in making the Planet!!
valuable. most of senior year for the Senior
PHONE RINGERS!!I...PLAYS THE •••• ANTOSTAL 
Class Board. Applications are due
NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, NOTRE DAME "FIGHT SONG" SIGN-UPS The One and Only 
FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan on Friday, April20 at the Junior 
MICRO, CLEAN & FURNISHED, DURING INCOMING CALLS AND 
Courts on Thursday Class Office. Applications may be 
1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947 STOPS WHEN YOU ANSWER. GOLFTOURNEY A Charity Ball 
4/5. Keys are held together picked up at the Secretary's Office 
GREAT GIFTS FOR ONLY $15. AIRBAND N
by a piece of string. Call on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune.
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable AVAILABLE AT THE JACC PRO MATIRESS RACE T THE GROOVE Pat at x1560 
turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., SHOP TIRE ROLLING 0 IMPERSONATIONS S Fri. April20 
Lost: silver framed glasses efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., 
'80 Dodge Aspen CHARIOTS T
in black case, at Cartier references. The Senior Month Mystery Trip 
4 dr, AC, new tires,good PILLOW FIGHTS A Tickets at LaFortune 
field or vicinity. Reward. 616-483-9572. leaves Holy Cross Field at 1 pm 
condition. $750. 283-4348. TUGOFWAR L
Call Mike at x2082. Saturday and it will give you a GRADUATION HOUSING FOR 4-warm, fuzzy feeling. Info. Desk or 
Couches, Beds, etc. Off-Campus FRIDAY, APRIL 20 6-8 PM5 PEOPLE. 708-355-4848. 
Furn. 4 Sale SUB OFFICE 283-BAND
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ROCK FOR JUSTICE 
271-5651 CHEAP

ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE ROCK FOR JUSTICE ADOPTION. We are a childless,
REWARD. SEAN 2073 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS ROCK FOR JUSTICE educated, secure, happily married, 
$525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT To a special Victorian suitor-­

TICKETS white Christian couple. Give your 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko 232-3616. FREE CONCERT THIS FRIDAY! Indeed, we choose those similar. 
baby a fantastic future. Let us
dress watch on the second FIELDHOUSE MALL 4-7pm Thank you for bringing Chicago 
adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­
floor of the library. Please Turtle Creek Apt and New York closer by a mere
I NEED GRAD TKTS 974-8227.
call Pat x24 79 or give to furnished/summer SPONSORED BY: three blocks. 
$$DAVE P. 3270

library security at the front Matt x3549 AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL What I don't say in my many words 
BROWN LEATHER JACKET: 
desk. & Nevertheless warrants
need grad tix! will pay big $ I lost my "Mirage" jacket on 
ODN expression ... 
call 277-8692 Saturday night at NO Ave and SUBLEASING FURNISHED 
T-SHIRTS & INFO CONCERNING Thank you for making my Easter
Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES bright
please call me-lt's of great 
I lost my Canon CAMERA at the FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273-And my days bright. 
sentimental value. Reward!! Call 
Senior Formal dance. Please call 0302. From what I see, my eyes being 
Hey! B I L L Y J 0 E Lfans: AT THE COFFEEHOUSE Steve@3591
Kay at 277-8813 if you found one. little better than warthogs's, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
Would you like two tickets to his -come and see BIG HANDS 
You are handsome and wonderful, APRIL 24 CONCERT IN THE acoustic guitar duo w/ Fiesta en casa de Hector 11iernes219-291-7153. 
and I love you dearly. 

ROSEMONT HORIZON? various vocalists Ia u~ima del afio 
SENIOR FORMAL: Are those I may not fall in your top nine, 
music will start at 9:00pm 
pictures you developed not yours? NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD But you surely fall in mio_~
If so, call Phil at #1 051 or Molly at FOLLOWED by an OPEN MIC. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!I!
Maybe you or your date picked up SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF --...._ -'--'-,.,--'!­
#2669 or #2648 for more ticket at the Grace Coffeehouse Mail Boxes Etc. 
the wrong camera by accident on ND 2773097 
information We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12,SAT night. Please call #1765. 
BEST OFFER/ACT FAST In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! 
THANKS CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, Top 1 0-440 Easter Quotes UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, Help! My little old Italian 10. I think THEY'RE my right size! 277-6245
LOST: One brown leather jacket, LARGE CLOSETS. 232-3972. 
Grandma is coming tor graduation! 9. He can be bigger than a banana.
Saturday night at Corby and ND 

I need an extra ticket or I'll be out 8. W I bet you say that to NEED RIDE : to IU for 
Ave. It is a 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR 
of the will! I will pay much bucks. all the guys! UTILE 500 4/20-4/22 "Mirage" brand. Monetary reward 
Call X4238 and leave a message. 7. Mich likes it Call Jenny X4998 offered. Call Steve at 283-3591. 
ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, 6. Ready to sleep together? 

WILL RENT TO GROUP OR 5. Does he have a stick? He has aINDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK A green, 3-speed, Schwinn 

Attention please. stick! As long as keep your feet in clay, GLORE 232-1776. 
bike. It was left at Stepan 

I need two grad tix bad 4. Mich, you've had worse things in your blue eyes on the sea, your 
Buy any 12"
b-ball courts last week. If found, 

FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, honest, I am willing to pay big your mouth. auburn head in the mountains, and 
please call Tim x1828. 

bucks for them. 3. There's me and Rob in that your heart in Atlanta, I'll put up with Italian subAIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. 
Monetary reward offered. 

Please call Greg at 3114 dress. you.
CAMPUS. 272-0615. 

************* 2. Nancy and I figured out how to Happy Birthday!! with one litre do it in the Water Tower Place. 
Sublet a townhouse for summer! 2
LOST: A BLACK & GREEN 

bedrm, 1 1/2 bath, kitchen, living; 1. I was more interested in what I P.S. The South won't rise again. soft drink CAMOUFLAGE JACKET. 
had in my box!! 
partially furnished. Call Amy orREWARD. 234-9648. 

-Monroe Fykus NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CPA TAKERS Sharon, SOONI X1302 
and 

CALL #2059-JOHN Help! I need a ride to and from ELLI,
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED: 


WANTED 

Chicago for exam. Will help pay Happy 19th Birthday! •To share furnished 2 bdrm. 
expenses. Tom 2196. Vincenzo 
recetve
apt. for the summer. Low rent, 
pool etc. call M.J. 277-7496 
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE 

The halls are alive, with Diane's hi ag -I'll see you at the Charity 
any weekend-ext 1938 

birthday (hum,m,m,m,m)! Carnival 
And you said there were no more 
Sign up for the 


$1.00oFF
fun birthdays, Diane. 
NEEDED lrnediately : Full time Eccentric millionaire seeking person to watch 2 yr. old. 5 new heir wants GRAD TIX. NORTH QUAD COUNCIL 
SUSAN E. O'CONNOR FROM days from 6a.m. to 4 p.m. AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 Harry x2263. "CHUMP" INDIANA, in the Student Government Pay negotiable. send letter or BEDROOM HOUSE, office, 2nd floor, La Frotune. 
GOOD LUCK ON JEOPARDY, come to 316 E Broadway, Mish COMPLETELY FURNISHED. WANTED-GRADUATION 
Or call Mike Gaffney at
YOU ARE A WHIZ KID! 
between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234-TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800-239-7668
BEST WISHES, THE HOCKEY 9364. 888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK 
and leave your name and phone 




lllfle~lr
CHICK. FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT number. 
HEY NOW04/29/72LIVEDEADIN TURTLE CREEK SUBLET AFTER 5 616-342-0729. WEST GERMANY-WHOHAS THIS 
TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR GOING HOME !?!?!? WHODUNIT? Find out at THE BIRTHDAYSHOWPLEASECALL THE SUMMER Need 1 ticket for graduation. For great rental van rates call Tim MOUSETRAP 8pm FRIDAY and TWICE AT X3270-WILL TRADE CALL KEVIN,MIKE,OR JEFF Price negotiable. Please call at x1143 ASAP. SATURDAY Library Auditorium coupon expfres 
X1644 Mary-Frances x2909 
4-20-90 


Thursday, April 19, 1990 Scoreboard page 13 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dtvtalon w L A:t 
(E 

z-Ph1ladelphia 52 28 .650 Wo z-Boston 
50 30 .625 2 ••~
on t 

34 .570 6 t/2 Wontz-New York 45 
20 112 Won2

Washington 3t 48 .392 
63 35
Miami t7 .2t3 Lost9 
.2t3 Lost5
New Jersey t7 63 35 
Central Division x-Detrolt 57 22 
.722 Wont z-Chlcago 54 25 .684 3 Wont z-Milwaukee 42 .525 Lost t
38 15 112 41 39 .513 161/2 Lost!
z-lnd1ana Cleveland 40 40 
.500 17 1/2 Won4 
18 1/2 Wont Lost 14 

Atlanta 39 41 .488 
Orlando t7 63 .213 40 112 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L A:t (E Streak Won5
z-San Antonio 54 26 .675 z-Utah 54 26 .675 
Lost2 44 35 .557 9112 Wont
z-Dallas Denver 4t 38 
.519 12 1/2 Won2 
39 13 t/2 Wont
Houston 40 .506 
57 31 Lost2 .238 Wont 
Minnesota 22 .278 112 
Charlotte 19 6t 35 Pacific Dlvtalon Won3
x-LA Lakers 61 t8 .772 z-Portland 57 .713 Won2
23 4112 53 27 .663 81/2 Lost 1 
z-Phoenix .494 Lost 1 Seattle 39 40 22 Golden State 36 44 
.450 25 112 Wont 
31 112 Lost3

LA Clippers 30 50 .375 
57 38 112
Sacramento 23 .288 Lost4 
,NHL PLAYOFFS SPORTS CALENDAR 
x-chnched conlerence Iitie 
z-cllnched playott berth 
Wednndrl'• Gamea Thuraday'o Gamea Thuraday, Apr1119Boston 133. Orlando II2 Dallas at Charlotte. 7:30p.m. 
DIVISION FINALS Campbell Conference 
Baseball vs. BUTLER (2). 1 p.m. 
Cleveland tOO. New Jersey 93 Philadelphia at Detroit, 7:30p.m. 
Non1s Division Philadelphia 124, Indiana 113 Washington at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
Wales Conference 

St. Louis vs. ChicagoCharlotte 98. Miami 91 New York at Milwaukee. 8:30p.m. 
Patrick Division Friday, April 20 
Wednesday, April 18 San Antonio 102, Utah 93 Denver at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
Washington vs. N.Y. Rangers Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay
St. Louis 4, Chicago 3, St. Louis leads series t -0 Portland I 28. Phoenix 120, OT Seattle at Sacramento, 10 p.m. 
Thursday, April t9 Men's Golf at Akron Invitational 
Friday, April 20 Golden State 133. Los Angeles Clippers t 20 Minnesota at Los Angeles Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
Washington at N.Y. Rangers. 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, April 21 St. Louis at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 
Saturday, Aprll21 Washington at N.Y. Rangers. 8:30p.m. Sunday, April 22 Baseball at Dayton (2). t2 p.m.MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Monday. April 23 Chicago at St. Louis, 7:05p.m. Outdoor Track at Kansas Relay 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, April 24 Men's Golf at Akron Invitational Wednesday. April 25 Lacrosse at Ohio Wesleyan. 2 p.m. 
Chicago at St. Louis. 8:35p.m. AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
thursday, April 26 Eaot Dlvlalon Eaa1 Dlvlalon 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:30p.m. Softball at MCC Tournament. Dayton. Oh1o 
St. Louis at Chicago, 8:35p.m.. if necessary(E Friday, April 27 
(E w L Pet. .667 Washington at New York. 7:30p.m., if necessary Saturday, April 28 Sunday, Aprtt22
w L Pel 

3 Sunday, April 29 Baseball at Dayton (2). 12 p.m. 
New York 4 2 .667 Chicago 6 Chicago at St. Louis, 8:35p.m.. if necessary Toronto 6 4 600 Montreal 5 4 .556 t 
New York at Washington, 7:30p.m., if necessary Monday, April 30 Men's golf at Akron Invitational
Boston 5 4 .556 112 St. Louis 5 4 .556 1 St. Louis at Chicago, 8:35 p.m .. if necessary
Tuesday. May I Men's tennis vs. OHIO STATE, t p.m.
Detroit 4 5 444 t t/2 Philadelphia 4 5 .444 2 
Washington at New York, 7:30p.m., if necessary Softball at MCC Tournament. Dayton, OhioMilwaukee 3 4 429 t t/2 Pittsburgh 4 5 .444 2 Balllmore 3 5 .375 2 New York 6
3 .333 3 Cleveland 2 5 .286 2 f/2 West Division 
(E

w L Pel TRANSACTIONS
Weal Division (E 0 t.OOO
w L Pet. Cincinnati 8 Adams Dlvlalon Smythe Dlvlalon 
FOOT18ALL
Oakland 6 t .857 Los Angeles 6 4 .600 3 Montreal vs. Boston Los Angeles vs. Edmonton Canadian Football League Ch1cago 5 2 7t4 t San Diego 5 4 .556 3 t/2 Thursday, April t 9 Wednesday, April t 8 BRITISH COLUMBIA LION$-Signed MichaelCalifornia 5 3 .625 t t/2 San Francisco 3 6 .333 5 t/2 Montreal at Boston. 7:35p.m. Edmonton 7. Los Angeles 0, Edmonton leads 
2 5 .286 5 t/2 Jones. cornerback. Pat Sperduto. defensive end. 
Kansas City 4 4 .500 2 112 Houston Saturday. April 2t series 1-0 
t43 6 t/2 and John Sullivan, and Gary Shipman. 
Texas 4 5 .444 3 Atlanta t 6 Montreal at Boston, 7:05p.m. Friday, April 20 linebackers . 
M•nnesota 4 6 .400 3 t/2 Monday. April 23 Los Angeles at Edmonton. 9:35p.m. 
National Football League 
Seattle 2 7 .222 5 Boston at Montreal. 7:35p.m . Sunday, April 22
• LOS ANGELES RAM$-Signed Lupe Sanchez.
Wednesday' a Games Wednesday, April 25 Edmonton at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. 
delensive back. 
Late Game Not Included Wednesday's Games Boston at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Tuesday, April 24 NEW ORLEANS SAINT$-Agreed to contract
Detroit 8. New York 4 Late Game Not Included Friday, April 27 Edmonton at Los Angeles. t0:35 p.m. 
terms with Gill Fenerty, running back.
Balt•more 8. Toronto 5 Los Angeles 6, San Francisco 2 Montreal at Boston, 7:35p.m.. if necessary Thursday. April 26 HOCKEY
Boston 7. Chicago 5 Cincinnati II. San Diego 7 Sunday, April 29 Los Angeles at Edmonton, 9:35p.m.. if necessary National Hockey League
Kansas City 7, Cleveland 0 Philadelphia 4, Montreal 3 Boston at Montreal. 7:05p.m.. if necessary Saturday, April 28 NEW YORK RANGER$-S1gned Steve R1ce. right
Milwaukee 1t. Texas 6 Chicago 8, New York 5 Tuesday, May 1 Edmonton at Los Angeles. t0:35 p.m .. if 
w1ng.

Minnesota 4, Seattle 3 St. Louis 3, Pittsburgh 0 Montreal at Boston, 7:35p.m., if necessary necessary COLLEGE
Oakland at Calilornla. (n) Atlanta at Houston. (n) Monday, April 30 NCAA-Certified the Sunshine Football Classic toLos Angeles at Edmonton. 9:35p.m.. if necessary be played Dec. 28 or 29 at Joe Robbie Stadium. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
ReauKo lor Wednesday's Games Joe & Who Are Your Friends over Mo & The The Kids From Down the Hall over Copy Center Stepan 3 6:15 -5 Sally Guys vs. Sanctum Excrementum Copycats by t 3 4:00-The Cotton Club vs. The Blues Brothers Bookstore9
Loveslaves by t 7 
Stepan 1 Bookstore 10 4:45-It Doesn't Count Unless You Hit the J vs. 3:15-IBM vs. Drew a Blank
Painfully Huge over Machosquad by 9 Fran McCann's Fan Club & 3 Other Wrestlers Remember It's Stepan over Killway by t 3 Silent Assasins over 4 Monkeys & a Boy 4:00 -Multiple Scoregasms vs. Everclear
Don't Pass to Fruball -He'll Shoot over The Judean People's Front by 9 Stepan 5 Named Spanky by 3 5:30-Clockwork Orange vs. t Game & Out 4:45 -5 Guys Who Have Never Been In Cliff's We Ain't Soli over Cheeseballs by 12 Malicious Prostitution over Metamucil, a Pencil 5 Guys Who Follow Digger To Akron over 6: t 5 . We've Always Been Buster Douglas Fans Kitchen vs. Air Zirutile Sail. Salt Salt Shaker over Irish Hoops Blow & 3 Other Cures by 18 Fightin' Cajun Codwedges by 5 vs. Bottle of Bacardi & 3 Others Who Give Pleasure 5:30-Chunks of Frog Feed vs. Reckless Another One by 2 Nothmg Fancy over Scurvy Dogs -Balls. Sorin Hall Foodsales over Luc's Revenge by t 2 Stepan 4 Abandon We've Golla See A Man About a Clog over Scrabitts by 17 The Deviant Hatfields over 4 Monogamous & 4:00-Goldfinger & the 4 Pinkies vs. We Don't 6:t5 ·Dry Heaves & Drool vs. The Dunking Irish 
Ours Go to 1t by8 Mary. Cathy, Wendy & 2 Other Dodger Scams Andrew Campbell by 20 Need No Stinkin' Keith Tower Bookstore 10 Stepan 2 over Bobby a & the Toastmasters by 3 4:45-Hutch Bricks vs. Eddie & the Cruisers 4:00-Prof. Longhair & Manhattan Express vs. Last Year's Champs over Leg1on of Doom by 5 De La Sole over Four Men & a Mole by 10 5:30 -Environmental Rapists vs. Tonsil Hockey Gangster Disciples 
Secretary's Dream over D1gger's Offense. Games lor Thursday, Aprtl19 4:45-5 Big Organs That Need Tuning vs. Team
Stepan 6 Pete's Log1c. & 3 Other Things That Don't Work by The Dogs over Open Loop Shooters by t 2 6:t5-Moses. Ezekiel. Jeremiah, Elijah & Sal #260 8 Hennessey's Washington Bar over The PTP's vs. Stuff Fest 
Stepan 1 5:30-3rd & Short vs. ED 
Dead By Dawn over Pete Gillen Fan Club by 2 4:00 -Sweet Scott P & the Dwarts vs. 5 Guys Stepan 5 6: t 5 -Santa Blitz en & 3 Guys vs. 0 for 3 But We The Good. The Bad, The Laundry over Slaty Team #579 over Big Dawgs by 13 From Zahm Who Can't Win 4:00 -Tequilla White Lightning vs. You're Done Still Have Our Health 
Cleavage by t 2 Tasmanian Devils over One Guy Who Can 4:45-3rd Degree Burns vs. Freedom Rock II: 4:45-Hanging Out With Judas lscariot vs. Lyons 11 Stepan 3 Spell...by 9 Turn It Up Noxious Gaseous Emissions 4:00 · Rubber Cement II vs. Shirley's Mole Soul Sonic Force over Air Swoop by forteit Stepan 7 5:30 -Nubian Pharoahs vs. Fergusons 5:30-Gel Off R Bad Self 2 vs. Digger's NIT 4:45-I.A. Gash & Slam Pieces vs. Have Gun The Six Man From Sk1d over Team #36 by 7 Doggie Angst over Screaming Midgets From 6:15-4 Hockey Players &...vs. L Train Express Will Travel The Return of Skip Holtz. The War Memonal. & Hell by t2 Stepan 2 6:t5-Drive By vs. Sons of Chachi 5:30-Spider Agnum P.l. vs. Juco's 
3 Other Useless Blocks over Flamenco Dancers of Bookstore9 4:00-Shay's Rebellion vs. The Teeth Stepan 6 6: t 5 -Tunnel Dwellers vs. Shoot Or Get Off 
Death by 6 Expresso Pizza over Moose's Men by 8 4:45 -We Can Do Some Good Things vs. J. 4:00-Sweet Lou & The Teabags vs. Veni, Vini. Lyons 12 The Innkeepers over Forte1t by t 5 Lethal Weapon Ill over We Have the Tools & Crew Cotton Knit Reversible Weave Mango Barn Vinci (We Came. We Saw. We Lost) 4:00 -Phenylketonuriacs From Hell vs. Enawd Stepan 4 Not the Talent by 2 Jacket 4:45 -Mouthfulls vs. S.B. Mishawaka Still Alive 4:45 -4 Ninjas & A Banshee vs. Sh1rts 
Team #357 Magnum over Royal Ugly Dudes by Chunky K's Boyz That Work Overtime at the 5:30-Clark & Company vs. Cub's Crew With Pride 5:30-Barnyard Animals vs. 5 Guys Who Would 12 Lumberyard over Hawaii 5-0 by t 7 6:t 5 -Hokey Jokeys vs. Kelly's Boylriend & 3 5:30-We've Got Krunch & You Don't vs. 4 Have Accepted Illinois' Offer Other Guys Studs & A Chemist 6:15 -Whatever vs. Snapperheads 
by 17 


******************************* 
!LU\V!E 

Don't miss Friday Lunch, you never know who might be there!!! 
·Fri & Sat Nites Live-Cliff Erickson Seniors, last chance to see him ***Don't miss out*** 
'IIIIIGrad Students ATTENTION: 
1M Professors Employees 
•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 


•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


1:12;::_ lCX)t} Su!"' ~ Non ~lh ikn(t lnc11A+\,t A()l2ft 
219•277•3731 
-

-~ -~~ ---~­
-------~---------~ 
The Observer
a e 14 

Reds remain only unbeaten team 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Trammell, who started the Montreal's four-game winning 
Cincinnati Reds equaled the gaip.e tied with Toronto's Tony streak. best start in club history Fernandez for the season's Howell allowed two first-in­Wednesday night, improving to longest hitting streak, had two ning runs, then held Montreal 8-0 as Mariano Duncan, Paul hits in three at-bats and scored scoreless until the sixth. O'Neill and Chris Sabo homered twice. Meanwhile, Gross (0-1) yielded in an 11-7 victory over the San Jack Morris (2-1), improved four runs, five hits and eight Diego Padres. his record to 7-3 against the walks, one intentional, in five 
Duncan's two-run homer tied Yankees in Tiger Stadium. He innings. the game 5-5 in the third inning struggled during his 75-pitch cardinals 3, Pirates 0 and O'Neill put the Reds ahead outing, giving up three runs, PITTSBURGH -John Tudor to stay with a three-run homer two earned, on eight hits in five continued his comeback from in the fourth. O'Neill, who en-innings. Urbano Lugo started arm miseries by extending his tered the game as a pinch hitter the sixth for Detroit, followed scoreless streak to 19 innings in the third inning, had four of by Paul Gibson, Dan Petry and and Tim Jones was 3-for-3 with the Reds' 14 hits. Mike Henneman, who got his two RBis as the St. Louis 
The eight wms matched the second save. Cardinals beat the Pittsburgh 1980 team's start and gave the Cubs 8, Mets 5 Pirates 3-0 Wednesday night. Reds their longest winning NEW YORK -Marvell Tudor (2-0), limited to six streak since they won eight in a Wynne's three-run pinch triple games for Los Angeles last sea­row in September 1988. The highlighted Chicago's tie-son because of elbow and 1982 Atlanta Braves hold the breaking five-run seventh in-shoulder problems, gave up six National League record of 13 ning as the Cubs took advan-hits, struck out four and straight wins to start a season. tage of poor New York defense walked one in seven innings to 
Dodgers 6, Giants 2 for the second straight game improve to 8-1 lifetime against 
SAN FRANCISCO _ Eddie and beat the Mets 8-5 Pittsburgh. Ken Dayley pitched 
Murray homered from each Wednesday night. the final two innings for his 
The Cubs won 8-6 in 13 I·n-first save.

side of the plate Wednesday to 
power the Los Angeles Dodgers nings Tuesday night on third Orioles 8, Blue Jays 5 
to a 6-2 victory over the San baseman Howard Johnson's TORONTO Craig 
Francisco Giants and said he is two-run throwing error. It's Worthington homered and 
aiming for Mickey Mantle's the first time since 1976 drove in four runs, including 
record for a switch-hitter. Chicago has won its first two the tiebreaker in the sixth in-
Murray accomplished the feat games in New York. ning Wednesday night as the ';r 
for the ninth time in his career The Mets have made 13 er-Baltimore Orioles beat the 
and first in the National rors in nine games, going 3-6. Toronto Blue Jays 8-5 and .,P,. 
League, one shy of Mantle's Phillies 4, Expos 3 ended a three-game losing 
major league mark. M0 NT R E A L _ T h e streak. 
"The record is one of the few Philadelphia Phillies took ad-Randy Milligan, who hit a 
I think about," said Murray, vantage of six walks and two three-run homer, and 
who drove in three runs and wild pitches by Montreal's Worthington each got three 
just missed a third home run. Kevin Gross in the second and hits as the Orioles stopped Trailing 2-0, the Phillies tied the fourth on Dykstra's leadoff 
"But I'm proudest of doing it third innings to push across Toronto's three-game winning the game in the second when double and Von Hayes' single. 
with Baltimore in back-to-hack three runs and beat the Expos string. Gross walked three batters and Rookie Delino DeShields led 
games. 4-3 Wednesday night. Royals 7, Indians 0 Rod Booker and Dykstra deliv-off the Montreal first with a 
Tigers 8, Yankees 4 Ken Howell (1-1) scattered KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Storm erect RBI singles. bunt single, took second on 
DETROIT -Alan Trammell nine hits in seven innings, Davis shut out Cleveland on five An inning later, Gross walked Howell's wild pickoff throw. 
extended his hitting streak to Roger McDowell earned his hits through seven innings three more batters, one inten-went to third on Marquis 
nine games as the Detroit third save and Lenny Dykstra Wednesday night and Bob tionally. and the Phillies took a Grissom's fly ball and scored 
Tigers beat the New York and Von Hayes had two hits Boone drove in three runs, 3-2 lead on Charlie Hayes' RBI on Tim Raines' groundout to 
Yankees 8-4 Wednesday. apiece as the Phillies snapped leading the _Kansas City Ro~als single. Philadelphia added what first. The Expos made it 2-0 on 
over the Indians 7-0. proved to be the decisive run in Tim Wallach's single . 
At-' t-'noto 
The Cincinnati Reds remain the only undefeated baseball team in this year's major league season. 
y

E A R T H D A 
A THURSDAY APRIL 19 •Talk with Grant Smith, Director of Citizen Action Committee on Indiana Toxic Action Project, Cushing Auditorium 1:15 pm 
•Movie: NEVER CRY WOLF, Montgomery Theater inR Lafortune, 9:30 pm 
T 
FRIDAY APRIL 20 •Discussion with Joe Miller: "Taxies and the 
Environment and Us: Issues and Alternatives" at the C.S.C 12:15-1 :00 pm 
•Legislative Writing Session at theH C.S.C. 1 :30-3:00 pm 
SATURDAY APRIL 21 ·Tree Planting Project: 1 00 trees to be planted at the RES Retreat Center,w leave from C.S.C. 1:00 pm, for more information call Steve 283-1232 
E SUNDAY APRIL 22 •Run for the Environment, 9 am Fieldhouse Mall EARTH DAY!! •Mass at the Grotto with Fr. Malloy and Fr. Himes 
11:30 am; Tree Dedication following mass 
•Earth Day Fair noon-7 pm on Fieldhouse Mall
E 
including Live Music of Boathouse Blues Band Mr. E, St. Paul and the Martyrs; Informational ' 


Boot~s sponsored by campus clubs; Dramatic
K Read1ng of Dr. Suess' book THE LORAX; Tie Dyeing; Obstacle Course; Scavenger Hunt
.. 

Thuffiday,April 19,1990 The Observer page 15 
Irish baseball miffed at loss of automatic MCC invitation 
Cavs need one to make playoffs 
The thrilling MCC Champi­
ing the decision? llopefully, they watched more onship the Irish baseball than one game and if they only were able to t1mm captured last year with catch one, pray it wasn't a St. Louis-Butler four wins in a span of 23 contest. Admittedly, these two arc the weak hours is something that will sisters in the conference. Butler was 12-32 a never be repeated. Literally. year ago and St. Louis checked in with a dis­This year them won't be a mal 14-37 mark. But most every conference in hid for the MCC to the NCAA any sport will have its weak teams. The Big playoffs as them has been Ten was one of the best basketball conferences the last f1~w y1~ars. The in the nation last year, but they still had 
NCAA, in its infinite wisdom, Mike Kamradt Northwestern, Wisconsin and Iowa. However, has demned tlw confPrence baseball shouldn't be compared to basketball. not competitive enough. Sports Writer "Baseball isn't like basketball or football," "I don't think its justified at all," said Irish says Murphy. "The results aren't always coach Pat Murphy. "Obviously there's a lot of indicative of the best team. You can play great politics involved. The system's not perfect. I baseball and still get beat by a good pitcher. don't think they were singling out our confer­That's why the Majors play 162 games." ence, hut every year I've been here each team The MCC has certainly been a competitive has improved." conference, especially in the last three years Did they watch any MCC games before mak-with the emergence of the Notre Dame pro-

PHILADELPHIA (AP) Hersey Hawkins scored a sea­son-high 31 points as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Indiana Pacers 124-113 Wednesday night, redueing their magic number for winning the NBA's Atlantic Division to one. 
The 76ers need a vietory or a Boston defeat to dineh their first division title since Julius Erving led them to the NBA championship in the 1982-83 season. 
Philadelphia plays at Detroit Thu~sday night and closes out the season at home against the Boston Celtics on national tell~­vision on Sunday. Boston, which defeated Orlando, plays host to the Chicago Bulls Friday night before facing Philadelphia. 
Hawkins scored six points during a 10-2 run in the third quarter that gave Philadelphia an 81-65 lead, and the 76ers extended the margin to 93-73 at the end of the period. 
The Pacers, Philadelphia's probable opponent in the first round of the playoffs, never got close in the final 12 minutes. Heggie Miller scored 18 points to lead Indiana. 
Cavaliers 100, Nets 93 

EAST HUTHEHFOHD, N.J.­Craig Ehlo had 19 points and live tfmmmates scored in double ligures as Cleveland won for the fourth straight time and 
reduced its playoff magic num­
her to one by defeating New 
Jersey. 
A victory by the Cavalinrs or a loss by the Atlanta Hawks in thn teams' final two gamns of the season will clinch Cleveland's third straight Eastern Conferencn playoff spot. The Nets have now lost five in a row and 20 of their last 22. 
Cleveland took the lead for good by outscoring New Jersey 32-12 to open a 34-14 advan­tage in the first period. Ehlo led the early spurt with nine points, while Mark Price added seven. 
Chris Morris scored 25 points for the Mets, while Chris Dudley had 19 rebounds. Dudlny, who had missed 16 straight free throws entering the game, ex­tended his streak to 19 before hitting his first free throw with 
2:55 remaining in the first half. 
Celtics 133, Magic 112 
BOSTON -Kevin McHaln, taking up the slack in the ab­sence of ailing Larry Bird. scored 33 points as Boston handed Orlando its 14th con­sncutive loss. 
With their lOth consecutive home victory, the Celtics kept alive hopes of overtaking Philadelphia in the Atlantic Division with two games left in thP regular season. The Celtics trail the 76ers by two games but would win the division if the teams finish with the same record. 
With Bird hospitalized after minor surgery for an abscess on his buttocks, McHale was helped by Reggie Lewis with 20 points and Jim Paxson with 18. 
Boston also was missing Dennis Johnson, sidelined with a leg injury, while Orlando played without Sidney Green and Terry Catledge. 
Morton Wiley topped the Magic with 24 points, two more than Reggie Theus. 
Hornets 98, Heat 91 
MIAMI -Kelly Tripucka scored 26 points, including a 3­point buzzer-beater at the end of the third quarter that put Charlotte ahead to stay as it handed Miami its ninth consr>c­

'************************************••
"'DO THE RIGHT THING' i ­ls.~..~.~~.~!,~!.~M." . ~~ 





P0, ~I~Bi!i k~~ 
$~ :!{.~· Al:~~~!.~~I.RIJiA~I ~ / : 
* : .. 
* 
: Cinema at the Snite : : FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 : 
t************************************.: 
gram. The three top teams are the Irish, De­
troit and Evansville. Last year, Notre Dame 
managed wins over Texas and Miami last year, 
but lost six of eight to Detroit. 
The conference has also proved it can play with the big boys around the country at tour­nament time. In the 1988 NCAA regional, Evansville beat perennial powerhouse Arizona State 1-0. Last year, the Irish beat Portland in the regional and took top live Fresno State to the wire in a 9-8 loss. 
The MCC might not have a bid but at least some of the other top conferences around the country do. I wouldn't be able to sleep at night if I the Big South didn't have an automatic bid. Yes, those boys from Augusta College, Hed­ford, Coastal Carolina, Campell (soup?) Uni­versity, and the rest of them sure can play. Look for Murphy to beef up the schedule next year with these rhouses. 
utive loss. 
The Hornets brokn a four-game losing streak and earned a split of the two-game snason snries with the lleat. The teams also split two games last sea­son, their first in the NBA. 
Miami remained tied with New Jnrsey and Orlando for tim worst record in the league, 17­63, each with two games re­maining. Charlotte improv1~d to 19-61. 
Tripucka's basket at the end of the third quarter gave the Hornets a 75-72 lead. Miami scored nine consecutive points to get within two, but Charlotte's Handolph Knys hit two baskets and Tripue.ka made a free throw and a basket for a 94-87 lead with less than two minutes left. 
Spurs 102, Jazz 93 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas David Hobinson had 30 points and 16 rebounds as San Antonio became the most im­proved NBA team ever by de­!'eating Utah. 
With the win, the Spurs also moved into a tie with the Jazz for first place in the Midwest Division. 
Both teams now have 54-26 records with two games re­maining in the regular season. If they finish in a tie, the Spurs would win the division bncause of a 3-2 edge in the season series. 
The Spurs, 21-61 last season, broke the 32-victory turnaround record set by the Boston Celtics. Before the Celtics went from 29 to 61 wins in 1979-80, the Milwaukee Bucks held the improvement record of 29 games since 1969­70. 
San Antonio, which also set a franchise record for victories, led by as many as 16 points in the fourth quarter, but with two consecutive 3-point shots, Utah moved to within seven with 1:30 remaining. The Jazz got no closer, hownver. 
John Stockton led Utah with 29 points and 15 a·ssists, while Karl Malone had 20 points, only live in the first half. 
a e 16 The Observer Thursday, April 19, 1990 


Bears face tax problems with IRS 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago Bears on Wednesday said pub­lished reports had exaggerated the amount of taxes in dispute between the IRS and the team's owners. 
The sports daily The National reported in Wednesday's edi­tions the IRS was seeking about $43.5 million in gift and inheri­tance taxes stemming from a 1981 reorganization of the NFL team. 
The newspaper reported in­terest and penalties could drive the assessment to more than $50 million, a figure the report said would require the family to sell the team. 
The IRS contends the reorga­nization placed an artificially low value on the 49.35 percent of the team's stock then held in the name of team founder George S. Halas, who died Oct. 31,1983. 
U.S. Tax Court Judge Lapsley 
W. Hamblen Jr., before whom the case will be heard May 15 in Washington, refused Wednesday to release court documents specifying the amount involved, a tax court clerk said. 
The IRS claim was disclosed at a hearing in December 1988 before Cook County Circuit Judge Henry Budzinski. At that time, the IRS claimed a tax de­ficiency of $20.7 million and a penalty of $5.6 million. 
"Recent reports greatly ex­aggerate the amount of taxes in dispute," the Bears said in a three~sentence statement re­leased Wednesday. The state­ment did not provide another figure. 
Virginia Halas McCaskey, Halas' daughter, and Michael McCaskey, Halas' grandson and president of the team, have filed petitions in U.S. Tax Court in Washington challenging the assessments. 
The family has also asked permission to pay any taxes the court rules it owes in 10 annual installments, a request the IRS had already refused. 
"In order to avoid litigation, the McCaskey family hopes to reach a settlement with the IRS. However, if the case does go to court, the Bears are confident their position will prevail," the team's statement said. 
Tam spokesmen refused to answer further questions and would not say whether the 
honors in 198 7. split time with Michael Stone.breaker and Wes

Draft 

Pritchett in '88 before returning continued from page 20 to his starting role as a fifth­prove upon his performance as year senior in '89. He is listed a senior. Bolcar, who earned as the No. 119 player by Kiper, second-team All America while Smagala comes in at No. 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey Notre Dame senior Anthony Johnson is considered one of the best prospective fullbacks in the nation and should be picked in the early rounds of thA NFL draft. 
-~''~~,,~,,~,~,,~~,~~~~~''~'~'~'''~ ~ 6 6 ~ 
~ rct~Y o r-11tth ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Balloons Plants Bouquets ~ ~ Bouquets Corsages Arrangements ~ ~ Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Silk ~ 


~ ,-----------------------· ~ 
~ J lOo/o OFF CASH AND CARRY 1 ~ 
~ L.-~J~-s~~~~~!?~!l!'!.~~!~ __; ~ 
... 
~ 'Die~.-. 5901 ~ 
§ 8olltll ollJDitrawltJ P.rk 1111111 § 
~ .MiabawaQ.m 4GMs Grape Rd. ~ 
§.. 277·1291 ~ 
~~,~~~,~~~'~'~~~~,,~,~~'''~ 
assessment threatened the Halas' ownership of the Bears. 
James L. Malone III, Chicago attorney for the Halas family, refused to comment Wednesday, saying the Bears' statement would be the only comment from the family. 
Halas left his share of Bears stock to trusts for 13 grand­children, meaning each got 3.8 percent of the team. 
The reorganization was aimed at passing on the fran­chise to Halas' 13 grandchil­dren while avoiding heavy taxa­tion, IRS investigators charged. The Halas estate ultimately paid tax on Halas' stock based on a value of just over $8 mil­lion. 
Some tax experts have asserted that the move legally saved the estate about $15 mil­lion, but the IRS apparently contends that the estate's part of the stock was undervalued by more than $31 million, the newspaper said. 
.That would ·place the IRS's estimate of the total value of the team at about $80 million in the early 1980s. 
106. 

Bolcar, Francisco, Brown and Brennan were proclaimed "worthy of mention" by TSN. Brennan, originally a walk-on at Notre Dame, holds down the 89th spot in Kiper's Top 150. 
Fullback Walter Boyd, who recently recovered from a sprained ankle and knee, bruised his ribs during a full­contact drill at Tuesday's practice. The junior-to-be left the playing field on a golf cart and was immediately taken in for x-rays . 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz will be the featured guest on WVFI's "Sportstalk" show from 8-9 p.m. on Wednesday, April 25th. It marks the first time the Irish football coach will be heard on campus air­waves. Holtz will talk about the spring season which comes to a conclusion with the Blue-Gold Game on Saturday, April 28th and be available to field ques­tions from students. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
e Hapkido Club meets Tues. at 7:30 and Thurs. at 8 
p.m. i . 219, Rockne. Learn self-defense from 6th degree Korean rna ter. Beginners welcome. FREE! 
The 60th Annual Blue-Gold Game will be April 28th at 
1:30 p.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitted at gates 15 and 16 upon presentation of their J.D. card. General admission tickets are available in advance at gate 10 of the JACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mon-Sat. Adult tickets are $4 in advance, $5 day of the game while children's tickets are $2 in advance and $3 the day of the game. 
Hoa Tran and Kevin McKay, two Notre Dame students, are candidates for Black Belt in the N. D. Tae Kwon Do Club. Their testing is open to the student body on Thurs.. April 19th at 8:30 p.m. in the JACC fencing gym. 




Pro-Life Day 
Thursday, Apri119, 1990 
4pm Anne Mulvaney: "Pro-Life Activism" 
speech on Fieldhouse Mall (Rain: 118 Nieuwland) -Pro-Life Action League, Illinois Right to Life Committee -Pro-Life Counselor, Lobbyist, Teacher -Fulbright Scholar, East-West Center Grant 
5pm Pro-Life Mass Farley Hall Chapel 
6:45pm Chris Godfrey: "Champions for Life" Video 127 Nieuwland Science Hall -Member of Athletes for Life -Members of New York Giants Super Bowl Championship Team 
7:15pm Prof. John Potts: "Looking to the Future" 
127 Nieuwland Science Hall ~Valparaiso Law School -Worked on Webster v. Reproductive Health & Idaho Legislation 
SPONSORED BY ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 



CHICAGO (AP) -Hookie Hod Brind'Amour scored two goals and Hick Meagher and Brett Hull one each Wednesday night, leading the St. Louis Blues to a 4-3 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks in the opening game of their second-round playoff series. 
The victory took away the home-ice advantage for Chicago, which finished first in the Norris Division. Game 2 will be here Friday night before the series switches to St. Louis for games Sunday and Tuesday nights. 
The Blues grabbed a 4-1 lead midway in the second period before the Blackhawks staged a comeback that fell short after goalie Greg Millen was replaced by Ed Belfour. 
Chicago put on the pressure in the final period but couldn't offset the tight checking of the Blues. With 42 seconds remain­ing, the Blackhawks pulled Belfour for a sixth attacker, but were stopped cold by Vincent Riendeau. 
The outcome was an exten­sion of the regular season, when the Blues held a 5-2-1 edge over the Blackhawks and were 3-1 in Chicago. 
Brind'Amour put the Blues ahead 5:42 into the game, but the Blackhawks tied it at 9:26 on Doug Wilson's first goal of the playoffs. 
Meagher broke the tie and 


Trade
•InJOUr 



-r.:
bigbuckS: 
Now, check out trade-In time at Notre Dame Credit Union where we are now re-writing loans for all of Michiana at big savings on interest. And, if we re-write your present loan as a home equity loan, you may be able to save even bigger bucks on your taxes next year.' 
If you have a car, boat, RV, appliance or home improve­ment loan from any other institution, call our loan trade­in hot line now (288-NDCU) and ask how much we can save you on re-financing. 
Our interest rates have never been better! 
'Consult your tax advisor. 
l[NDIER 

@ '{}. 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the University 

page 17 

Blues and Oilers win in 2nd round of action 
put the Blues ahead at 18:58. 
Chicago killed a penalty early in the second period, only to have Brind'Amour score his fourth go~l 16 seconds later. 
Midway in the period, Hull scored his sixth goal and Chicago coach Mike Keenan yanked Millen in favor of Belfour. Millen appeared ex­tremely upset as he left the ice. 
The Blues' Gord H.oberts was penalized when Trent Yawney scored to cut the lead to 4-2. The Blackhawks continued the pressure and. at 18:24, Adam Creighton scored after a mad scramble in front of Hiendeau. 
Riendeau was playing in place of Curtis Joseph, who suffered a shoulder injury in the final game of the Toronto series and is expected to miss the first two games of this series. 
Oilers 7, Kings 0 

EDMONTON, Alberta-Esa Tikkanen scon~d two goals and goaltender Bill Hanford got his first-ever playoff shutout as the Edmonton Oilers beat the Los Angeles Kings 7-0 Wednesday night in the opening game of an NIIL playoff series. 
Jari Kurri scored his 86th ca­reer playoff goal, second-high­est title in Nlll. history, as the Oilers took a 1-0 lead in the best-of-7 Smythe Division final series. Kurri is two goals be­hind the Kings' Wayne Gretzky, who leads with 88. 
Hanford stopped 25 shots for the third playoff shutout in the history of the Oilers. Grant Fuhr, who is injured, had the other two. one a 4-0 win over the Kings last year. 
Tikkanen, whose main job is to hound Gretzky on dnf'ense, did that effectively and also scored his fifth and sixth goals of the playoffs. 
Game 2 of the series is scheduled for Friday night at Northlands Coliseum, where only 16,778 fans -about 700 under capacity -watdwd Wednesday's opening game. 
Hanford earned the shutout largely by his brilliance in the first period, when he stopped the Kings several times from in close until the Oilers took command. 
Kurri's goal came midway through the first period when he deflected a point shot past Los Angeles goaltendor Kelly llrudey. 
Glenn Anderson, Mark Messier, Joe Murphy and rookie Martin Gelinas, with his first playoff point in the Nlll., also scored for the Oilers. 
1-ND Fully
Autographed Football 
~,..................,
..,..,.......... 

........... b.... IU.a 
C.UUI-­

................ 

-
London $245 Madrid $258 P11rl1 249 Rome 215 Fr~nkfurt 249 
Scheduled carriers' Book any11me' Fares 1/2 AT from Ch1cago. Some re· stric\lons apply. On·lhe·spol rail· passes. lntl Sludent I D. cards. youth hostel passes. work and sludy pro· 
... 
grams Call lor FREE Travel Catalog. 

page 18 

Softball tops in MCC after sweep of Dayton 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame softball team swept a doubleheader with Dayton on Wednesday, defeating the Flyers 5-0 in the first game and 4-3 in the second. The wins up the Irish record to 22-13 overall and 9-3 in the Midwest Collegiate Conference. 
ln the first game, Missy Linn pitched a two-hit shutout while striking out six Dayton batters and walk­ing none. Linn who is now 9­6 on the year, got help from a Notre Dame offensive out­burst which contributed 10 hits to her effort. 
Four batters, Debbie Boulac, Amy Folsom, Kathy Vernetti and Megan Fay, each had two hits to pace the Irish. Boulac also scored and drove in a run while Fay stole a base. F.olsom and Vernetti scored as· well. 
In the second contest, the game was tied 3-3 going into the bottom of the seventh. Ronny Alvarez entered the game to pinch run for Laurie Sommerland who had been walked. Alvarez stole second and scored on a hit by Rachel Crossen. Besides driv­ing in the winning run, Crossen went 2-4 in the game. 
Pitching for Notre Dame was Staci Alford. Upping her record to 11-6, the freshman allowed nine hits~ one walk and two earned runs while fanning five. 
The Irish scored in small doses in the second game, getting one in the first in­ning, two in the third and one in the seventh. Sheri Quinn contributed two hits and two RBis for Notre Dame. 
The victories move the Irish into first place in the MCC. Dayton fell to 12-12 overall and 5-3 in the MCC 
with the two losses. The 
Flyers are seeded fourth in 
the upcoming league tour­
nament while Notre Dame 
holds the top bidding. 

Two-time Heisman winner to speak at NO 
Special to the Observer 

Archie Griffin, the only two­time Heisman Trophy, will make his first visit to Notre Dame on Tuesday, May 1. 
Griffin, currently the assis­tant athletic director at Ohio State University, will be the guest speaker at the OSU Alumni Club of Greater South Bend's annual spring dinner in the Monogram Room of the Joyce ACC. 
Griffin won the Heisman 


Trophy in 1974 and 1975 while Archie Griffin playing for the Buckeyes. He rushed for 100 or more yards Joyce and Athletic Director in 31 consecutive games, which Richard Rosenthal are involved is still an NCAA record. in the program. 
He is Ohio State's all-time For more information, con­leading rusher with 5,589 yards tact Professor Don Tidrick at in 924 carries, an average of 239-6268. over six yards per carry. Griffin played from 1972-75 under le­gendary coach Woody Hayes, 
STEAKS

and the Buckeyes posted a 40-6 record that included four Big 
PRIME RIB 

Ten championships and four 
SEAFOOD
Rose Bowl appearances. 

After the successful collegiate career, Griffin played eight years for the Cincinnati Bengals in the National Football League. He was inducted in the 
College Football Hall of Fame in 1986. 
BIKE TOUR 
He received his undergradu­
ate degree in labor relations a quarter early and has spent ex­
25 MILE ROUND TRIP
tensive time speaking with youth groups across the coun­
LAKE MICHIGAN ROUTE 
try. Griffin will comment on the importance of family and faith, SUNDAY, APRIL 22 topics especially appropriate in Notre Dame's "Year of the 
ADVANCEREGISTRATIONREQUIRED
Family." 

$3.00 FEE TO COVER FOOD COSTS Although the event is spon­REGISTERATNVABY APRIL19
-sored by the OSI Alumni Club, anyone from Notre Dame is welcome to attend. Father 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 

Northwestern began i.ts scoring drive, spurred maybe by the confrontation. 
For Notre Dame, all three 
runs came in the third inning. 
Cory Mee scored on a wild 
... 
pitch, Craig Counsell singled in Bautch from third, and later in the inning Lund's sacrifice bunt scored Counsell. 
Bautch, Coss, Smith, and Frank Jacobs all had two hits for the Irish . 
.. 

BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird of the Boston Celtics was hospi­talized Wednesday after under­going minor surgery for an ab­scess on his buttocks. 
Dr. Arnold Scheller, the Celtics' physician, said an inci­sion was made and the abscess drained at New England Baptist Hospital. 
"All we did was pop it," Scheller said. 
Bird scored 23 points while playing 45 minutes in Boston's 111-105 loss at Chicago Tuesday night and went to the hospital after the team re­turned home Wednesday. 
Scheller said that the abscess had been bothering Bird since last Sunday and "he started to 
American Red Cross 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA F......Friclay nithl...._. INIIel ....s-lay'lnach 219-259-9925 
develop more systemic signs of infection." 
"When you get (cold) sweats and you develop a fever, that means it's starting to spread," the doctor said. "That's what we mean by systemic." 
Scheller said that Bird "will probably be in the hospital for 24 to 48 hours" for intravenous antibiotic treatment. 
Bird missed a game with the Orlando Magic Wednesday night. 
Scheller said that Bird was questionable for a game with the Chicago Bulls in Boston Garden Friday night, but prob­able for Sunday's regular sea­son finale in Philadelphia. 
Thanks toyou ... itworl<s ... 
for 
ALL 
OFUS 
Unitedway
• 
1riHIIE 

•JPIR?J.\lfliNtG OOAW111IS• 1rl!JJRN~ 211 'INJ>JD)AY.. 
II~ 7f1HIII~ 
7rlHilE JL([]) <lJ)JI{ <lJ)IF. A CCJBIJllMIJPJI<lJ)N? 
The 353 Guys 
& Kathy 


A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with othera, to deepen your understanding of youraelf, your values, your relationship with Chrf.t, your experfence of Chrfatlan community and Hrvlce. 
PLAN NOW FOR THE FALL! 
RETREAT 

DATES:  September 7... 1990  
APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED:  1April 20 • 211  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Office  
103 Hesburgh Ubnuy  
239-7800  
COST:  $20.00  



CAMPUS  
Thursday  ACROSS  25 Outcome  
4 p.m. Workshop, "Where Are You In Your Job Search?"  1 Eliot's "­ 28 Forefront  
Jeff Hice, Assistant Director. Foster Room, LaFo~tune.ede"  30Girl  

Sponsornd by Career and Placement Services. 
'd 1. h "Ch . .,. .. 'd 
. 6:_45 _p.m. V1 eo Speec , • ~mpwns ~or L11e, VI eo, Chns (,odfrey of Athletes for L1fn. 127 N1euwland. Spon­sornd by ND/SMC Right to Life. 
7 p.m. Video Presentation, "A Man's Woman," Lara Kipinis, video artist and feminist. O'Shaughnessy Loft. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
9:30p.m. Film, "Never Cry Wolf," Montgomery Theatre. Sponsored by Environmental Action Club. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT Thursday 
1:15 p.m. "Indiana Toxic Action Project," Grant Smith, dirnetor of Citizen Action Committee. Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Environmental Action Club. 
4 p.m. "A llistory of Brazilian National Identity," Thomas Skidmore, Department of History, Center for Latin Ameriean Studies, Brown University. Snite Museum of Art. H1~ception follows in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Co­sponsored by Kellogg Institute, College Fellow Office and Snite Museum of Art. 
4 p.m. "Pro-Life Activism." Anne Mulvaney, Pro-Life Action League. Fieldhouse Mall (rain: 118 Nieuwland). Sponsornd by ND/SMC Hight to Life. 
4:15 p.m. "The Images of a Family: Ameriean­llungarians i1f South Bend, as Seen Through the Lens of a Hungarian Anthropologist," Mihaly lloppal, Academy of Sdence, Budapest. llesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Department of Anthropology and Year of the Family. 
7 p.m. "Experiencing New Traditions/ Nuevas Tradiciones," Hobert Phelan, Guest Curator, New York State Museum. 
7:15 p.m. "Looking Into the Future," Professor John Potts, Valparaiso Law School. 127 Nieuwland. Sponsored by ND/SMC Hight to Life. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
1\e~. loo\c.it on ~eqY.,? -the siss'l ~ho '(ou'd rc1ther didn't sign 1.1p pia~ dolls on for recess \h~ pla~q~u~ 
~sebal\! wi\\-1 <3irls. 
Sur~ '{O'oJ I'M ~OT f\ 
'tler~"·t! WIMI>.' 11-1 FAG, Le.t~see I 'NP6 GO\t-lG yr~Jr Barbie. TO ~E. OFFICE doll, '/0\J TO Sl~ \JP siso:.y wi111p~ fOR B(>.St.B~LL 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.-;~-F.:-~ H~±±B~:'-:+.=+:-+=-~~~ 


:7:+-,.:..t,i...._. 12 Elbe tributary 13 Finishes a j 't:-17:+.:=-i 21 Odometer reading 22 Chromosome parts 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey Pork Fried Rice Spaghetti w/ Marinara Sauce Reuben Sandwich 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
----~-----~­
,.....--------­
Thursday, April19, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD 
48 Part of H.R.M. 50 Large Atlantic fish 51 End of the 
question 59 Group of eight soOn 61 Wallaroo 62 Fissile rock 63 Get checkmated 64 Bohr's subject 65 Succinct 66 Mimicked 67 Aught 
DOWN 1 Actor Baldwin 2 Kathleen Battle IS one 3 Deposed tyrant 4 Sled dog 5 Abjure 6 Grown-up 1 Tree or monkey 8 British submachine gun 9 More logical 10 Ethically neutral 11 Contents in the silly question, paronomastically 

Saint Mary's 
Baked BBQ Pork 
Yankee Pot Roast 
Macaroni & Cheese 
Deli Bar 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
00 
0 


"Now Betty Sue, we know you're upset ... breaking up with a boyfriend is always hard. But as they say, there are more protozoa in the lower Intestine." 
25 Sped  38 Small donkey  51 Part of H.C.L.  
26 Corrigendum 21 Net 28 Kind of parking 29 Saharan 31 Spoil 32 Christmas add-ons 33 Actress Spacek 35 Guadalajaran coin  39 Calorie 40 Belgian or Spaniard 45 A bike has two 47 Piled 49 Helena's competitor 50 Selected  52 Pine 53 Betelgeuse or Rigel 54 Part song 55 Desist 56 Marmon or Kissel 57 Niblick or mashie 58 Alaskan cape  

5 Deserters 
9 Cut wood 
14 Kind of bean Bl _ .
15 1
ue pencl16 South-of-the­border pal 17Wicked 18 Attractive 19 Piece for an ennead 20 Start of a silly question 23 Coin 24 Historical period 

34 Ridge; crest 35 Peel 36Agnus­
(Christian 
emblem) 37 More of the question 

41 Ages and ages 42 Manipulated 43 Shucks 44 Limned 46 Trumpery 47 The Inquisition's target 

1rQ01JJ~wrt~~ llli®!])~C9 JJ.>®0rlr:BW0 ~Tfg}rtiJJ~~ ~222 
Thursday, Aprill9 
•

12-4 p.m. Sorin Room 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

A terrifying Suspense Thriller 
Dead Calm 
Times: 8:00 and 10:15 
Where: Cushing Auditorium (no alcohol allowed in auditorium) 
1st Floor LaFortune 

----------------------------~~~~-----------------------------~-------------­
Sports
page 20 

ND loses in the 1Oth after physical battle 
Special to The Observer the play, Coss tried for home 
Amidst a bench-clearing and collided with catcher Tom skirmish and a violent collision Dodge, breaking Dodge's jaw at the plate, the Notre Dame and loosening four of his teeth. baseball team lost to In the bottom of the sixth, Northwestern 7-3 in 10 innings Smith again was up to bat with Wednesday night at Coveleski a runner on second, this time Stadium. senior captain Ed Lund. Smith 
Northwestern scored two in hit a grounder up the middle, the seventh and one in the Riccioni stopped it, and threw eighth to send the game into late to first in the same fash­extra innings and then exploded ion. But this time firstbaseman for four runs off senior Mike Tom Sandt's throw to home Coffey (3-1) in the top of the was on time, getting the sliding tenth. Wildcat pitcher Jason Lund. Wallace picked up the win. At the conclusion of the play 
Tempers started rattling in the catcher spiked the ball on a the second inning with Notre prostrate Lund, causing both Dame up to bat and Mike Coss teams to run out on the field. on second base. lrv Smith sent No punches were thrown and 
a bouncer up the middle and the altercation was very brief. Northwestern secondbaseman After that inning Andy Riccioni made a diving 
see BASEBALU page 18

stop, throwing late to first. On ' 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Notre Dame lost to Northwestern last night 7-3 in 1 0 innings. The game was marked with physical play as the two team~ participated in a bench-clearing brawl and a collision at home plate. 
The Observer/Andrew McClosKey Only 256 teams are left in this year's bookstore basketball tournament. Action intensifies as the competitors near the finals. 
~--_ ··"J Malicious Prostitution wins !] With 4 of 5 returning from last year, champs look tough Fan Club and Five Other shots to pace Expresso Pizza~l0 ~RE~~0~UFFEV Wrestlers downed The Judean past Moose's People's Front 21-12. Men 21-13, while Irish football Malicious Prostitution con­The winners shot just 21-of-assistant Skip Holtz hit for tinued its quest for a second 57 from the field in advancing three points in a 21-15 win for consecutive Bookstore Basket­to the next round. Freshman The Return of Skip Holtz, the ball title Wednesday afternoon Steve King led the effort with War Memorial and 3 Other with a 21-3 rout of Metamucil, eight points and 17 rebounds Useless Blocks. a Pencil and 3 Other Cures. as Fran McCann's Fan Club John Bergmann led the attack jumped to a 7-0 lead and never Forfeit should have, as it lost for the defending champs with really looked back. 21-6 to The Innkeepers. Air seven points, while Pete "We started out pretty good," Swoop did forfeit. allowingVanDyke and Jim Flynn chipped King said. "It's wrestling condi­Soul Sonic Force into the round in four points each. tioning, and some of it's quick­of 256. "We played pretty good," said ness. We get a lot of steals and Joe Scott, last season's MVP that helps." Digger's Offense, Pete's Logic who scored three baskets. "It There were several close and Three Other Things That was the first time we had really games as the field was paired Don't Work didn't work vpry all played together this year. down to 256 teams. well together, dropping a 21-13 They were smaller than us, so In the highest scoring game decision to Secretary's Dream. we got a lot of easy layups." of the day, Lethal Weapon III Four of five players return edged We Have the Tools But Last Year's Champs may not from last year's championship Not the Talent 25-23. Tom have won the tourney last sea­team, a team that went virtually Krebs keyed the effort with 10 son, but it did get a 21-16 vic­unnoticed until the late rounds baskets. tory over Legion of Doom be­of the 1989 tournament. Salt, Salt, Salt Shaker edged hind the nine points of Sean "It's going to be hard to re­Irish Hoops Blow Another One !Iayden. peat," Scott said. "I think there 21-19 behind the six hoops of are better teams in this year's Kenny Spears. Dead By Dawn Hawaii 5-0 couldn't even tourney. Everybody knows downed Pete Gillen Fan Club score that many in a 21-4 loss about us this year. Last year, 21-19, while Mary, Cathy. to Chunky K's Boyz That Work we were kind of a surprise." Wendy and Two Other Dogger Overtime at the Lumber Yard. A group of Notre Dame Scams beat Bobby Q and the That team didn't need to work wrestlers continued its early­Toastmasters 21-18. overtime on Wednesday after­round success. Fran McCann's Kevin Warren hit 9-of-14 noon. 
Notre Dame seniors offer plenty of talent to NFL draft 
Many NFL scouts, football analysts and other draft ex­perts consider the 1990 se­nior class a very talented bunch, but one that is per­haps a notch below those in recent memory. Despite the wealth of information at their fingertips, draft ana­lysts have failed to reach a consensus regarding the strength of this weekend's NFL draft as compared to those in previous years. 
The emergence of juniors such as Alabama linebacker Keith McCants, Florida running back Emmitt Smith and USC safety Mark Carrier has vastly improved the level of talent available in the minds of some while proving little more than a tem­porary distraction for others. 
But regardless of the varied perceptions concern­ing the '90 NFL draft, one thing is certain-Notre Dame will be well represented. 
As many as 12 Irish seniors could be selected Sun­day and Monday. Most observers agree that at least eight of those 12 are sure bets to be drafted, while the other four may go, depending on specific team needs. 
Safety Pat Terrell, fullback Anthony Johnson and defensive lineman Jeff Aim are widely considered prospective first-or second-round picks, while cen­ter Tim Grunhard, tackle Mike Brennan, cornerback Stan Smagala and linebacker Ned Bolcar are ex­pected to be taken at some point during Sunday's first five rounds. 


Offensive guard Dean Brown, quarterback Tony Rice and safety D'Juan Francisco are distinct possi­bilities in the second day. Offensive guard Tom Gorman and fullback Braxton Banks, both ham­pered by injuries throughout their collegiate careers, have outside shots at getting drafted. 
Terrell topped the list of safeties on almost every­body's list until Carrier announced his decision to enter the draft. He is listed 23rd on Inside Sports' Top 30 Draft List. Former Dallas Cowboys vice president in charge of player personnel Gil Brandt included Terrell in his Top 45, describing the senior safety as "a natural defensive back". 
Aim, whose uncanny ability to bat down passes at the line of scrimmage arrested the attention of NFL scouts, has been mentioned among the top five de­fensive linemen eligible for the draft. He also made 
Brandt's Top 45, Inside Sports' Top 30 (No. 21) and ESPN analyst Mel Kiper's Top 150 (No. 28), which appears in Blue and Gold Illustrated. He is listed as the fifth-best defensive lineman in The Sporting News' draft preview. 
Johnson is a unanimous choice as the top fullback prospect in the draft. TSN calls him "the epitome of a fullback from the standpoint of production". 
Brandt's Top 45 has a place for him, as does Kiper's Top 150 (No. 38). Johnson particularly im­pressed the scouts at the Indianapolis Combine by bench-pressing 225 pounds 22 times, considered outstanding for a lineman. 
Rice also posted impressive numbers in Indi­anapolis, topping all quarterbacks in the vertical leap (37 inches) and broad jump (9 feet, 10 inches). But he turned in a disappointing 4.79 in the 40-yard dash, a full three-tenths of a second slower than his 
4.49 average. 

Rice earned the distinction of "Best Athlete" among the quarterbacks in TSN, but he is consid­ered a late-round selection at best. Despite an in­credible 28-3 record as a starter and a fourth-place finish in the '89 Heisman vote, Rice is the 20th­ranked quarterback in the draft, according to Kiper. Rice's inconsistent passing skills concern NFL scouts, but his willingness to line up at receiver in post-season bowl games should improve his posi­tion in the draft. 
Grunhard, ranked 83rd in Kiper's Top 150, earned recognition as the No. 2 center by TSN. Although he played guard for Notre Dame the past two seasons, Grunhard is listed as a center primarily because of his skills as a deep snapper. 
Smagala and Bolcar had the misfortune of playing so well in their junior seasons that neither could im­
see DRAFT I page 16 




