
VOL. XXIII NO. 89 WEDNESDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Superpowers agree on German reunification 
OTTAWA (AP) -The United States and its European allies forged agreement with the So­viet Union and East Germany Tuesday on a two-stage for­mula to reunite the two Ger­manys after 45 years of divi­sion, according to a statement obtained by The Associated Press. 
In the first stage, East Ger­many and West Germany would meet on legal, economic and political issues, according to the statement. The talks would begin soon after East Germany 
Buy me 
holds its March 18 national elections. 
In the second stage the for­eign ministers of the two Ger­manys would meet with the for­eign ministers of the United States, France, Britain and the Soviet Union "to discuss exter­nal aspects of the establishment of German unity, including the issues of security of the neighboring states." 
The statement, hammered out at an East-West "open skies" conference and scheduled to be released later in the day, added 

Theodore's held a Valentine's celebrity auction Tuesday. Pictured left to right are: Jamere Jackson, Joe Frederick, Tim Crawford, Monty Williams, Nick Smith, Jamie Bailey, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail 
(obscured), and auctioneer Tim Flood. 
Coats to seek another term as U.S Senator 
By JOHN CRONIN 
News Writer 
U.S. Senator Dan Coats of Indiana announced Tuesday his candidacy to continue his pre­sent position. 
Coats was appointed one year ago by then-Governor Robert Orr to succeed Vice President Dan Quayle in the U.S. Senate. 
"I can promise you a Senator who listens not just to the stri­dent, but also to the quiet, and then votes his convictions in the best interests of the state I love," stated Coats. in a speech at Michiana Regional Airport. 
Coats praised the economic recovery that the United States has made in the past decade and committed himself to help in continuing this growth if elected. "Now, I'm enough of a malist to know that I won't win your support through charisma or the gift of speech," added Coats, "I ask for your support when you're convinced I have a record of commitment to prin­ciple." 
Promising to run his cam­paign "based on what I'm for, not who I'm against," Coats said he hopes to avoid the neg­ative campaign tactics that have been so successful in past elections. 
In his first year, Coats' legis­lation has concentrated on the quality of life, with particular emphasis on the family. Coats introduced 27 different bills, 13 


Dan Coats 
of which were passed. The Re­publican incumbent added that he would continue to focus on the family, for he believes it to be the basis for finding solu­tions to many social problems. 
"I want to remain your United States Senator because I seek to serve a standard we share-the guidance of princi­ple, the demands of compas­sion." said Coats. 
The Senator stated that he supported the Clean Air bill as long as Indiana is not asked to do more than its share. How­ever, Coats expressed concern for maintaining a balance be­tween proper advances in cleaning up the environment and still maintaining an eco­nomic base. "It is in the back room negotiating stage at this point...but we will have a clean air bill this year." said Coats. 
that "preliminary discussions at the official level will begin shortly." 
Although the statement was not specific, among the "external aspects" to be con­sidered by the Big Four allies of World War II -who defeated Nazi Germany and its allies in the most devastating war in history -will be whether the new Germany is a member of the main Western military al­liance, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
The United States wants a 
The Observer/L.A. Scott 

united Germany to remain in the NATO alliance, while the Soviet Union wants a neutral Germany. East Germany now is a member of the Warsaw Pact. 
U.S. officials bill the plan as "Two plus Four," a reference to the four World War II allies and the two Germanys. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Ed­uard Shevardnadze met earlier Tuesday along with his West German counterpart, Hans-Di­etrich Genscher and with U.S. Secretary of State James Baker III. 
Genscher on Tuesday af­firmed that East and West Germany would reunite and sought to reassure the world that the new country would not pose any threat to peace. 
"We tell all our neighbors what we want to unite: The Federal Republic of Germany, the German Democratic Repub­lic and the whole of Berlin -no less, and no more. We do not have territorial claims against any of our neighbors." 
"We seek a European Ger­many, not a German Europe." 
Alcohol Policy hits alcohol ads in 'U' 
The following is part one of a two-part series dealing with Notre Dame's alcohol policy. 
By JOE MOODY 
News Writer 
"Non-alcoholic" versions of "U. The National College News­paper" will now be distributed to Notre Dame beginning with the April issue. 
This resulted from a contro­versy questioning whether the newspaper violated the policy in Du Lac stating that no publica­tion funded by the University or bearing sponsorship by use of its name may contain adver­tisements promoting alcohol. 
U. has consistently had alcohol commercials since it has been distributed on campus. 
The Observer, though an in­dependent publication, is also restricted from using alcohol advertisements by the adminis­tration. 
U., a national newspaper out of California, is distributed monthly as a supplement to The Observer. With each issue it states on the front "Brought to you by Notre Dame Student Government." 
Student Body President Matt Breslin said, "Myself and Dave [Kinkoptl did make the decision at the beginning of the year to fund this paper." Breslin says that he was not aware of the alcohol advertisements when he 
see ALCOHOL I page 4 



Valentine's day means bi 
Money really can buy love 
(AP)-Oh, St. Valentine! How to capture the rapture? Does confection affirm af­fection? Do flowers floor? Or will it take a gold mine to get you to be mine? 
• Letters to the Love God and Goddess/ page 1 0 
Valentine's Day-colored rose red, punctuated with ar­rows from Cupid's bow, sweet as a bon bon and pretty as a bouquet -ac­tually has its roots in blood, gore, guts and gluttony. 
Historians say Valentine's Day began in the tnird cen­tury, when two Christian saints, both named Valen­tine, were executed. Because the martyrs' feast day, Feb. 14, was around the time of a pagan Roman festival called the Lupercalia, which cele­brated fertility, St. Valentine was popularly designated the patron saint of lovers. 
It's been 1,720 years since the heathens had their way -today, we shower our sweeties with perfume, jew­elry, lingerie, candy and flowers. 
We'll also buy them paja­mas, stuffed animals in all shapes, acrylic legs filled with German chocolate -at 
see HEARTS I page 9 

Valentine's Day The American Way 
Just how much of the two traditional romantic gifts will be sold in 1990? 
CHOCOLATE 
Americans will buy $611 million worth of chocolate for Valentine's Day this year. Melted down, that is enough to make 11 .3 billion regular size chocolate kisses, or one big one 166 feet across, twelve stories high, and weighing 6,110 tons. 
20ft.-{ 
The foil to wrap a chocolate kiss that big would be 416 feet square and cover the area of three football fields, end zones included. Wrapping all the regular size kisses would take more than 1,800 times as much foil. 
Americans 

will buy 70 million roses Valentine's Day this ich works out to about 
dozen roses given every minute over the full 24 hour day. 
80% Red 

Other colors 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Valentine's Day love is food for thought 
It's Valentine's Day and I'm lonely. 
That's nothing new; I've been lonely on past Valentine's Days, too. Nobody visits me Regis Coccia or calls me. I seldom Managing Editor get valentine cards, and that's just as 
well. Cards are nice, 
but if you really care, 
send food. 
You know something, loneliness rots. But, for that matter, so does love. I'm talking about romantic, not familial or Platonic love here. 
My ex-roommate once said, "Love is a splintered post." I didn't think much of it at the time, but I have since observed it to be true. The more you come in contact with it, the more you get hurt. 
Take some advice from a guy who knows: if you feel yourself falling for someone, think it through. Spare yourself the hassle of emotional involvement. 
My heart has been broken so many times that my cardiologist told me to lay off heavy relationships altogether. 
Despite the trouble relationships cause, people still go hog wild over Valentine's Day. 
How did all this fuss get started? The legends vary, but most depict St. Valentine as the patron saint of lovers. 
According to one legend, he had a garden where he let children play and lovers meet. While in prison, St. Valentine tied the keys tq the garden to two pigeons, with a mes­sage calling the children to return. 
We can't be sure about such stories about St. Valentine; there are 17 listed in the Catholic Church's book of saints. 
But we do know that an Italian priest named Valentine was martyred in the year 270 when he was beaten with clubs and be­headed. It must have affected people in love -many of them act the same way. 
Love isn't as bad as it seems; it's worse. It seems good, until you see it for what it is: headaches and heartaches. 
If you can't have love on Valentine's Day, don't fret. Enjoy the other aspect of this holiday -food. I especially enjoy getting sweets, such as chocolate. 
Aztec chieftain Montezuma was believed 
to have drunk a cup of cocoa before enter­
ing his harem. lie thought it increased his 
virility. 
Chocolate doesn't necessarily make me more virile. But it does put me in a better mood. Care packages are just the right perks when I've had a lousy day. Few things brighten the afternoon gloom like home­baked goodies. 
If only love were like eating chocolate. 
Now, that would be sweet. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
News  
Sports Greg Guffey  John O'Brien Peter Loftus  Systems Mark Sloan  
Chris Cooney  Matt Gallagher  Tim Quinn  
Production  Accent  Sports Wednesday  
Chris Labaree  Paige A. Smoron  Molly Mahoney  
Kristin Costello  Barbara Bryn  
Christina Ortiz  Graphics  
VIewpoint  Bradford J. Boehm  
Lisa Eaton  Ad Design  
John Cronin  Shannon Roach  
Mike Truppa  Kristie Rolke  
Mindy Breen  

The Observer (:JSPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 

The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 14. Lines show high temperatures. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © ~~~ ~ rn 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Natural Family Planning Information , a free pre­sentation on safe, effective ways of avoiding or achieving pregnancy will be held at 7:30p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. All are welcome. 
Iceberg Debates, Round Three will take place tonight in a dorm near you. The topic of the debate is ROTC's compatibility with Notre Dame's Christian char­acteristics. Please attend. 
WoRLD 
A crowd stormed Communist Party headquarters in the Tadzhikistan capital of Dushanbe Tuesday in ethnic rioting that has killed at least 37 people and injured 108, news reports in Moscow said. Armenians fled the city by the hundreds to escape the violence, which began Monday. The situation worsened Tuesday, with at least 200 new attacks and other incidents despite a curfew and state of emergency, late-night television news said. Soldiers in tanks and armored personnel carriers were reportedly in control of the central Asian city 1,600 miles from Moscow, but violence was spreading to the suburbs. 
NATIONAL 
The United States has withdrawn all of its invasion troops from Panama, leaving an American force of 13,504 in the country, the White House said Tuesday. In the face of resentment from many Latin nations, which objected to the continued presence of the invasion troops in Panama, President Bush promised in his Jan. 31 State of the Union address to bring the invasion troops home by the end of February. The U.S. troop strength in Panama is now just under the 13,597 stationed there be­fore the Dec. 20 invasion, said presidential press secre­tary Marlin Fitzwater. 
The first officer of an airliner that skidded off a La Guardia Airport runway and into the East River, killing two and injuring 31 people, recalled Tuesday in New York that he had to struggle to keep the plane from drifting to the left. However, Constantine Kleissis testified at a Na­tional Transportation Safety Board hearing into the Sept. 20 accident that he was surprised when USAir Capt. Michael Martin decided to abort the takeoff, cutting the Boeing 737's engines. 
MARKET UPDATEINDIANA 

Closings for February 13, 1990 

A Marion County firefighter has been named one of 10 Outstanding Working Women for 1990 by Glamour magazine. Debra Carlson, 36, division chief of training for the Pike Town­Volume in shares ship Fire Department, started as volunteer and 144.44 Million now commands five fire stations. She holds six Indiana master firefighter certifications. She earned a bachelor's degree from Wesleyan Uni­versity and an associate degree in fire science technology from Indiana University. 
S&P Composite 
A Franklin Central High School student 331.02 {f 0.94 who said he found and kept half of $1,676 stolen Dow Jones Industrials from the school has been expelled for the rest of 2624.10 {f 4.96 the year. Franklin Township Schools Superinten­dent Elmo Carver said it has not been determined Precious Metals if the 16-year-old student will be allowed to re­Gold~ $1.60 to$417.60/oz. turn for the 1990-91 school year. Carver and 
Sliver{/ 3.0ct to $5.333/ oz.
Principal Don King said the youth has admitted that he took half of the stolen money. However, 
Source: AP 
the student said he found the money in a hiding place. 
NYSE Index 182.85 {f 0.30 
©1990 Accu-Weather. Inc.  
[23  
FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Notre Dame's Tax Assistance Program, in which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's accounting students assist low-income taxpayer:; with preparation or their state and federal tax returns, begins Wednesday, Feb. 14, and continues through Wednesday, April 11. The program is in the coffee house of the CSC. The program will not take place from March 8 through March 17. 
An adviser to Mikhail Gorbachev acknowledged on Tuesday that some East European nations may even­tually may leave the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet military al­liance. Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, former Soviet chief of staff, was asked in an interview whether he thought one or two of the seven Warsaw Pact members might with­draw, and replied: "Probably." He would not say which ones. 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, a Maine Democrat, known in the nation's capital for his scholarly, measured political arguments, tried his hand at television sportscasting Tuesday, going on the air live with stories about heavyweight boxing, tennis and other sports on WCSH-TV. "That was fun," Mitchell said after stepping off the set. He appeared on the noon news as a "celebrity sportscaster" with his brother, John. the assistant men's basketball coach at Colby College in their home town of Waterville. 
A federal judge in Dallas has dismissed a 2-year-old lawsuit against rock star David Bowie filed by a woman who claimed he sexually assaulted her. U.S. District Judge Sam Cummings on Monday threw out the lawsuit filed by Wanda Lee Nichols, who accused Bowie of assaulting her in his hotel room on Oct. 9, 1987, during a four-day con­cert stopover in Dallas. Bowie conceded hP had spent the night with Nichols, but denied accusations he sexually as­saulted her. Cummings called the case a "nuisance suit." 
ALMANAC 

On February 14: 
e In 1929: The "St. Valen­tine's Day Massacre" took place in a Chicago garage as seven rivals of AI Capone's gang were gunned down. e In 1876: Inventors Alexan­der Graham Bell and Elisha Gray applied separately for patents related to the tele­phone. (The U.S, Supreme Court eventually ruled Bell the rightful inventor.) 
e In 1980: CBS announced that Dan Rather had been cho­sen to succeed Walter Cronkite as anchorman and managing editor of "The CBS Evening News" the following year. 
Yesterday's high: 57 Yesterday's low: 42 Nation's high: 88 (Lajitas, Texas) Nation's low: -15 (Caribou, Maine and West Yellowstone, Mont.) 
Forecast: A 60 percent chance of light snow and sleet likely today. Highs in the lower 30s. Cold tonight with an 80 percent chance of light snow and sleet. Lows in the middle 20s. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------.---------, 
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 The Observer 



~•a• 3 

Mandela welcomed home 
120,000 hail return of their hero in Soweto 
SOWETO, South Africa (AP) -Nelson Mandela came home a hero Tuesday, welcomed after nearly three decades by an ecstatic throng of blacks who de­lighted in his freedom but also heard him mourn the oppression of apartheid. 
More than 120,000 people crammed into the country's largest stadium to greet the man revered by most South African blacks as their leader. Many were getting their first glimpse of him. 
"The march toward freedom and justice is irre­versible," Mandela told the roaring crowd in the town­ship that has become one of the bleakest symbols of apartheid. 
At what the independent South African Press Associa­tion called the largest politi­cal rally ever in southern Africa, Mandela exhorted blacks to end their factional disputes, take control of a crisis-ridden school system, and work with discipline to end white-minority rule. 
Whites, he said, must be reassured that "a South Africa without apartheid will be a better place for all." 
Some spectators came six 
, ·"'' 

Nelson Mandela 
hours early to get seats, and the 80,000-seat stadium was overflowing by the time Man­dela arrived. Youths perched precariously on wall tops, others scaled 120-foot-high light towers, and more than 30 people were injured as crowds shoved and pushed to get a view of the podium. 
An explosion of joy shook the stadium when Mandela, 71, emerged from an under­ground walkway, saluting with a raised fist. 
"Mandela! Mandela!" the crowd roared as he slowly walked around the field, flanked by top leaders of his African National Congress and other anti-apartheid 
groups. People thrust fists 
into the air and danced  as  
Mandela passed them.  
"Today.  my  return  to  

Soweto fills my heart with joy," Mandela said. "At the same time, I have returned with a deep sense of sadness that you are still suffering under an unjust system." 
In Cape Town, the govern. ment issued its first formal response to Mandela's statements since his release Sunday after more than 27 years in prison. 
Constitutional Develop­ment Minister Gerrit Viljoen said the government agreed with Mandela that apartheid must be eliminated and vot­ing rights extended to blacks. But he criticized Mandela's support for con­tinued guerrilla violence and economic sanctions. 
"The government is not prepared to accede to the handing over of power," Viljoen said. "If that is the goal of the armed struggle, then there is no meaningful way ahead." 
Mandela, speaking from a podium on the playing field, said the thought of returning to Soweto helped him endure his years in prison. 



FRAmE 
SOmEOnE ~OU LOVE 

Volentine's Day. when purchased frame someone in the some visit! bytaking them to One for each of any Dr. Tavel's Pre­you. or both for mium Optical lo­one of you! But cation. As a spe­don't delay. this cial Volentine's of­offer is only good fer. we're giving until this Satur­you and your day.February 17. loved one (or so hurry in and whoever Is with frame your loved 
you!) two oolrs of one. 
glosses for $99,98. 
WITH Q PAIRS OF GLASSES FOR $QQ.QO CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILYOR $~998 2PAIRS ~9998 
EXTENDED WEA~ OF TINTE~ 
$39.98 opplel to Softmate clea. claly, Of ..t.nded ~ ar-. S99.98 appliel to Soflmate BOf B& l •0" tinted ..,_,In 2 different cololl. e.,.. ewam ~for conloctl. Some~ -lrictionl apply. 

'Christmas In April' planned for April 7 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 
Christmas in April is sched­uled for April 7. 1990, and the committee that sponsors it at Notre Dame is aiming to work on as many as 7 5 homes this year. 
Christmas in April is a project that uses volunteers from the Notre Dame and South Bend communities to renovate and clean up homes of the poor in the Washington Street neigh­borhood, according to Senior Karen Croteau, a member of the committee sponsoring the project. 
This is the second year that Christmas in April will take place and Croteau stressed the need for student volunteers. 
She said that sign-ups are taking place now through March 5 in the residence halls. Off-campus students may sign up this week in North and South Dining Halls during lunch and at the LaFortune in­formation desk through March 5. 
When the committee ap­proached the Hall Presidents Council this year. Croteau said that many presidents expressed concerns about last year's pro­ject. 
Some said that students were unhappy that they were as­signed to cleanup parking lots rather than homes. Others said that there were too many stu­dents assigned to one home. 
Croteau said that the commit­tee has decided that no students will be assigned to parking lots 
"SPELLBINDING~'•• 
RIChard Corliss -TIME MAGAZINE 
"MESMERIZING~'.. 
Bruce Williamson -PLAYBOY MAGAZINE 
TALK.ID 
/f4' ,R. :C:: I~~~~m~l ~tul~l 
\Ji~t' <I~SONI~IlOniDNIIIIIS IN[ AIIRIGHISRI~RiiO 
Cinema at the Snlte 
AlDAY 7:30,9:45
-

this year. Last year 43 houses 
were fixed-up, according to 
Croteau. This year Patrick Do­
ran, assistant director of resi­
dence life, told the committee 
that the aim was for renovation 
of as many as 75 homes. 
"Last year we had no idea how many students would show up," said Croteau. "We were pleasantly surprised." She said that the committee did not want to take on too many homes last year, to ensure tha·t no one was disappointed. 
"It is important that we have an even greater response than last year," she said. 
Christmas in April is sched­uled for the same weekend as Senior Formal weekend, said Croteau. "Students should not sign up unless they are not go­ing to Senior Formal. We don't want to disappoint people." · 
If seniors would like to make a contribution to Christmas in April, Croteau said that there will be a special collection at dorm masses on Feb. 25. She said, however, that the stu­dent's time is the most valuable asset to this project. 
She said that no special skills are necessary to participate be­cause skilled labor is provided by workers in the South Bend community. 
If people would like to sign up in groups, they should indicate so on the sign-up sheets. Groups may be no larger than 20, she said. 
"Any clubs, teams or organi­zations are welcome to partici­pate as a group project," said Croteau. 
The committee is trying to improve upon last year's pro­ject, said Croteau. "It is very important that people sign up as soon as possible." 
\leneed someone with theronfidenceofaSUIJteOO,thededicationof­amarathonerandthe rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps \Uiunteer Call us all--800-424-8580, Ext. 9~. 





The Nation's 

Over 100 Centers Nationwide Proven Preparation ForThe Bar Exams 
California  F1orila  Massachusetts  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  
Connecticut  Maine  NewHampshire  
Dis!.of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  

STANLlYH. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
r---------~----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
Currency talks to aid German reunification 

BONN, West Germany (AP)­The Germanys agreed Tuesday to begin formal talks on mak­ing the West German mark the official currency of East Ger­many, a move that could lay the. economic foundation for reuni­fication. 
The rush to reunify the Ger­manys gained further impetus in Ottawa, where British For­eign Secretary Douglas Hurd said Tuesday that the Western allies and the Soviet Union are close to agreeing on a way to unite the Germanys. 
The announcement referred to a U.S. plan to have East and West Germany work out proce­dures for a merger immediately after East Germany holds na­tional elections on March 18. 
The allies of World War II ­the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union ­then will discuss security ques­tions, including whether a re­unified Germany would be a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
The Soviets want a neutral Germany, while the United 

Survey shows Germans favor neutrality 
MUNICH, West Germany (AP) -A survey has shown that 58 percent of West Germans and 92 percent of East Germans qunstioned want military neu­trality for a unified Germany. a magazinn said Tunsday. 
Tho survny also showPd ovnrwhnlming support for Bnr­lin as the capital of a singln Gormany. tlw Munich-based we1~kly magazine <)uiek said. 
Thn survey, which questioned 3,599 Germans -2,170 in 


Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
made the decision. 
.Jon Cassidy, din~etor of stu­dent activities. questioned whether U. was really in viola­tion of the Du Lac policy. "We'd have to go over to the library's resource center and say 'Time Magazine has an ad for alcohol so we have to get rid of it."' 
Cassidy said there might not be any violation if the Student Governmnnt is only paying for a subscription and not the actual publication of the newspaper. 
After The Observer phoned U.'s Santa Monica office and discovered that the newspaper West Germany and 1,429 in East Germany-was conducted for the magazine by the Tuebingen-based Wickert Insti­tute. 

Seven percent of the East Germans and 42 pPreent of the West Germans questioned would want a unified Germany to be a NATO member, the sur­vey said. 
Only 1 percent of East Ger­mans questioned would favor continued membership in the 
also publishes a non-alcoholic version. Breslin decided to change the contract to receive that version, " strietly to avoid anymore controversy. It would be in our best interests." said 
Breslin. 

Concerning the generaJ policy ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;~o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
of banning alcohol ads from University funded or sponsored publications, Breslin concluded, "I believe it is wrong. I don't feel the original policy that The Observer can't have alcohol ads is re~.lly justified in the first place. 
The next issue of U., in March, may still contain alcohol ads. The change will not go into effect until April. 

G
Senior 
.0 Formal 
0 


1990CD
. 
Bid SalesG 

March 14-N.D. LaFortune 6-1 Opm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-1 Opm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9pm 
*Bid price: $75 per couple 
*Tux fittings *Flower orders *Room arrangements *Dinner seating-5 couples per table 
Wonderful Tonight... 


Warsaw Pact, according to the 
States is pressing for NATO membership. 
Hurd made the announcement during an East-West summit on aerial surveillance. 
Deep problems, meanwhile, still exist between the govern­ment of West German Chancel­lor Helmut Kohl and the rickety Communist coalition of East German Premier Hans Modrow. 
"We still have a difficult stretch of road ahead of us be­fore fulfillment of German unity," Kohl told reporters after his meeting with Modrow. 
Their brief summit produced an agreement to set up a joint commission to devise a way to make the West German mark the official currency of both na­tions. 
Although the com m1ssron. which is to begin talks next week, will deal with an impor­tant component of reunifica­tion, any system it comes up with would not be put into ef­fect until after Modrow's lame­duck government is succeeded in March. 

survey. 
Support for Berlin as the capital was overwhelming. The 
You 

survey said that 91 percent of 
ROCKE

East Germans questioned want Berlin as the government seat 
you...

of a unified Germany. East Berlin already is the capital of East Germany, although the United States, France and Bri­ta;n say that status violates p.>st-war agreements. 
Love­
Rumor~ 
,uc spreading 

Chrissy,
I.L~tcr th.tn .\IDS. 

Lauren 
for the facts call your local Red Cross. or write, 
and Karen 
AIDS 
+
American Red Cross ~:!!!;: 
'N.Ishington. IX 20006 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24th 12:30-5pm 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
For couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
PRE-REGISTRATION Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Lib. Applications are due by Wednesday~. FebruarY 21st. 


-~ 

Wednesday, February 14, 1990 


46804-6513 

FEEL IMPRISONED BY JPW? 
9:30 Thursday­COMEDIAN David Orion Friday & Saturday-The 10-2 DANCE PARTY 
This week at ~~ 
NIGHTCLUB 



FEEL IMPRISONED BY JPW? 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Will You be Looking For A Job During Spring Break? Do you need help with your interviewing skills? Get help from a personnel manager' There are 50 interviewing hints and a job search checklist from a professional interviewer in the booklet, "Making Every Interview Count." 
To order, just send $3 along with your name and address to: "Making Every Interview Count" c/o Aboite Publishing 9417 Crystal Spring Drive, Dept. N-21490 Fort Wayne, Indiana 
page 5 

Bush considers using radar net versus drugs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush may use the four­nation drug summit to revive the idea -shunned in Latin America -of using U.S. mili­tary forces to cast a "radar net" over Colombia to track co­
caine-carrying aircraft,  a  se­ 
nior adviser said Tuesday.  
Brent Scowcroft, Bush's  na­ 

tional security adviser, said the idea was "on the shelf for the moment" because Colombian officials balked last year at news reports that the United States was considering a naval "blockade" of their ports. 
Scowcroft said the plan probably would not win ap­proval "in the next several days" -the summit is Thurs­day -but he added that "it's an idea we think has merit." lie said, "I expect it might be dis­cussed" at the summit. 
Another administration offi­cial, speaking anonymously, played down the sensitive sub­ject, calling it "not a significant agenda item." 
Bush, after a pre-dawn flight from Washington on Thursday, will join the leaders of Colom­bia, Bolivia and Peru in the coastal resort of Cartagena for 
six hours of drug-fighting talks. 
The summit site, at a heavily guarded naval base isolated on a peninsula, was selected to provide maximum protection in a nation torn by drug-related violence. 
Underscoring the hazards, police reported Tuesday that leftist guerrillas had kidnapped_ two Americans in the drug capital of Medellin, Colombia, to protest Bush's visit. They were identified as David Kent, a teacher from Indianapolis, and James Donnelly, employed by a company that manufactures hydraulic equipment. 
Colombian authorities say about 5,000 security agents will be on hand for the presidents' protection at the summit. 
To bolster security, two American warships have been deployed in the Caribbean, along with a Colombian escort ship. 
The U.S. vessels are the USS Nassau, an 820-foot amphibi­ous assault ship which carries helicopters and a Marine land­ing team, and the USS Samp­son, a 437-foot destroyer armed with missiles. 
Bruno's
r~~­
Q~ I Nnnh EdJy l<.inodwtll Pl:11.a 1 
Snu1h fknd. lnllmm..

'\~ 
114·~$6.oo-FRE-EDE-LiveR-v1 
116" $8.00 with coupon I I 18" $1 0.00 *limit one item per pizza 
I 

LARGE PARTIES (minimum 12 people) 
·----------------------­
*All you can eat for $4.00 *Free pop and specials *Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 
289-4625 
Dear NursingBoards 
booster, 
(Excerpts from actual letters" 

Stanley H. Kaplan has received from 
satisfied NCLEX-prep takers.) 

"Not passing the NCLEX the frrst time was the worst thing to happen to me ... taking Kaplan was the best thing fve ever done ... " 
-Studentfrom Berkeley. California 
I feel that your nursing program is solely responsible for my 550 point increase ... " -Student from Birmingham, Alabama 
"I hadn't studied for my first NQEXand did not pass. Kaplan really motivated me to study hard to achieve a passing score the second time around ... " 
-Studentfrom New York City. New York 
No one but Kaplan gives you small classes led by ex­perienced nurses, and a tape review series. So ifyou want the best and most experienced in test prep, do what these RN's did. Call Kaplan! 
"If YOU"DliKE TOREAOMORE lEITERS liKE THESE. 
~"KAPLAN 
COME VISIT US. 
a 

STAHUY H. KAPlAN lDUCAnONAl aNTlR LTD. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN •"37 PHONE 219/272-4135 

Love, Dad, Mother and Mara 
-----------~-------------------------­
Viewpoint
page 6 Wednesday, February 14, 1990 


LETTERS 

Abortion issue not helped by 'The A Rag' 
In a press conference follow­
By James J. Carberry 
Dear h'dilor: ing the first Post-Season Hat­ing-Time Bowl victory in the 
The thought we dared not ut­Toilet Bowl at Flushing, N.Y. ter -until this week past: That IN./>. 78.2 -Yale 0.51. NBC an­ghastly primitive appellation nounces nPw. mor1~ far maehing "Fighting Irish of Notre Dame" contractual n~lations twixt du is now into history. Into that Lac and tlw Peacock. eelebrated dustbin (or, EPA permitting, ash-'heap·) of his­Ever conscious of the proper tory. A sigh of relief is n~adily balance between thn athletic audible throughout our fair and academic (not to slight the Hepublic -and on this bank bahtncn. mind you) NBC 
"culturally diverse" eampus. has established multimillion After all. who needs a Fighting dollar cndorsenwnts for: Irish Peaee Institute: a Cenwr· 1) The Notre Dame "L.A. for Fighting Irish Social (ist) Law" School ConePrns. 2) Tlw "Anothnr World" Tlw­
who one1~ had an abortion. but ology DPpartmPnt is now anti-abortion. and a list Observer's News Today," one Abortion is one of tlw most 

NBC has eome to kneel at 3) The "Tie, Tar., Dough"
of upcoming events of interest would get the impression that important moral issues of the Canossa. To our benefit! MBA programto pro-life supporters. Mr. Sheliga and the rest of The previous two decades, and in The voice of Ed McMahon will 4) The "Unsolv1~d Mysteries"However, the bulk of the paper, A Hag staff are strong advo­1990, we are no closer to a soar above the crowds' eries Seienee and Engineering de­nearly one and one half pages, cates of unbiased journalism. resolution of the abortion de­each forthcoming fall season, partmentsis an editorial devoted to criti­Wrong. The paper's so-called bate than we were in 1970. 
at the Notre Dame Studio, as (Cheek your local TV programeism of The Observer news de­"news" stories about pro-life Scientific fact and human the Fighting Peacoek team. led guide for exact elass sehnd­partment, which The A Rag rallies attract "the largely pro­feelings should guide this de­by its coach, emerges from the ules)_daims to b1~ biased against the abortion press" and "the bate. Biased rhetoric and im­
tunnel. "Heeeeere's Lou -and
pro-lifn movement. Supreme Court's tragie Roe v. position of religious sentiments the 'Fighting Peacocks' of. While offieials at the VatieanAlthough I occasionally write Wade decision." One article are irrelevant. Both sides of ahem, the new Notre Dame." 
expressed some eoneern re­
for Viewpoint. I know very little even eoncludes with the state­the issue have valid points that garding the Fighting Peacoekabout The Observer. Basieally, ment, "With the recent Supreme people should hear. Doc Severenson and the NBC 
alliance, spokespirits of the
I know as much about it as Court ruling allowing for states Unfortunately, some pro-lifers Symphony break wind-instru­Santa Barbara Division of thedoes any person who reads it at to enact minor safeguards for and pro-choicers would rather ments with a spirited rendition (An)other World Notre Dameluneh every weekday. As are­some children, (pro-life ralliers 
employ hollow rhetoric and of "Also Spracht Sparta." 
Theology Department assure
sult. I do not feel qualified to in South Bend) realized that name-calling than Iogie and Willard Seott gives Last Rites 
Panzerkardinal Hatzinger that
eounter the eriticisms found in now is definitely the time to be 
fact. 28 
his trial before the Gulag du ever, that The Observer has its struggle over a child's right not abortion clinic blown up. We Bryant Gumball interviews Jane Lac "Common Sense" Tribunal good points as well as its bad to be killed by abortion." don't need to see politicians Paully Scholars amongst the will be caneelled should llis Cheer Leaders of "Cheers" Eminenee agree to appear on 
The A Hag. I do know, how­eounted in the continuing We don't need to see another to geriatrics in Section 27' . 
points and, in two and one half Certainly the articles in The A and doetors benefitting from {Nightly _ EST). 
The Today Show-or pleading
years of reading it, I have never Hag are biased. Some may jus­the misery of others. We don't 
insanity, The Phil Donahue
deteeted bias in the news sto­tify this by saying that they need to see frightened young At halftime: {AC-Nielsen Show.
ries. balanee the bias of other news­women made to feel like mur-Score: ND =31.7; others 21.1), 
For further details tune in atMiehael Sheliga. editor of The papers or that The A Rag is not derers. We don't need to see an President Gorbachev announees CNN at WSND-FM.
A Hag, would disagree with a newspaper but a pro-life allegedly national university al-that all are free to leave the me. lie believes that members leaflet. Whether these state­
low only one side to be heard. Notre Dame Studio for a vodka of The Observer news staff in­ments are valid or not, The A We don't need to see one-sided break. 
James J. Carberry is a pro­ject pro-choice sentiments into Rag does little to help serious and simple-minded papers such An NBC poll released at sun­fessor of chemical engineeringtheir eoverage of the news. debate of the abortion issue. 
as The A Rag be the forum for down deelares NO/NBC the vie-at "old du Lac. " 
Those who read The Observer Pro-life (or even pro-choice) debate. .,_.:::::,:.:..:.:...::..:::..:::.:..:::.::.::.....:..:..::..:..:..::.:...:..=-;_-----------1and have read The A Rag ean propaganda disguised as news 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns ?n a .
deeide for themselves whether only adds to the dose-minded­to agree or disagree with Mr. ness of strong supporters of ei­
variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: V1ewpo1nt,
Brendan Short

Sheliga and his staff. ther side and to the confusion 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Stanford Hall 

From reading the editorial of undecided people. such as 

entitled "Whose Opinion is the myself. 
DOONESBURY 

MR. VIa PRESI{)ENT,W.W YaJ AGRt£; 7HAT MR.BI.JSI{S 7RIP7D me PR£511Jt:NT JIET 7HI3 COf.,()MB/AN WJXJ~ 15N7CW/3 7D RliN AWAY 15RXJUSHANIJ~? FRtJM A FIGHT. NOT THAT 
H8 HAS ANYTHING 70PI?OV8 
/ NJT~AU-... IN 7HJlT 1/13PAI<TM/3NT. H8 f)()tSN'T.t H/3 WAS A {}&aJR­ATW NAVAL.. AVIAlDR f}()R!NG
~ 
TH/3!JIG QV8! I 
~ 
BUT I CAN T/3U YOU, AS A VI£.TNAM-13RA V/37ERAN 
MY~ 50M8TIM8S A MAN'S GOTTA {}{) lA/HAT A MAN'S 60TTA t:XJ.t 
\ 

;ZY' 
Feb. 5, 1990L------------------------' 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
fA/HIJ:T  fA./eU, 5G+fc:TI/11E5  
a#ISIT  7H8GUY5WJW  
>tVHAt:J  PAR8M8 70  
70 [)(),  GO AIA/0/.. FOR  
SIR~  BR&I.U5K/5.  

'To love another person is to see the face of God.' 
Les Miserables 

ROTC deci'!~J!l£«?.mP~!!~!~, ~!t~ ~~~~!!!~~ .!~~~~~~!!2~!"··· 
Third World country or on a tary are socialized from day killing. on an ethic of nondiscrimina-By Kurt Mills massive scale with J1Uclear one to follow orders, and while Even if one accepted the ar-tion. Yet, the U.S. military is an weapons. we always hear that they are gument of pragmatism, one extremely discriminatory insti-Is HOTC consistent with There are several responses obligated to decline to follow cannot really say that our na-tution. Gay men and lesbians, Christianity, and therefore, given to this. First, the cadets an order which is not legal, I tiona! military forces have con-regardless of their perfor­given Notre Dame's identifica­will say that the fact that they wonder whether this happens tributed to peace and security. mance, are not allowed in the tion as a Catholic university, are receiving their ROTC educa-very often, and I wonder if any-The current world situation is military. In fact, several lesbian does it belong on campus? No. tion at an institution such as one who does this will have hardly one of peace. In this military personnel have been This article is not about Notre Dame, which puts an much of a career left. In addi-century alone eighty million sent to prison after they were whether or not states have a emphasis on Catholic values, tion, orders which may be con-people have keen killed, and "found out" by their superiors. right to self-defense. including means they will be better pre-sidered legal according to U.S. there are dozens of wars cur-Not even under US civil law-the use of violence. And, the in­pared to use their moral back-law, such as launching nuclear rently being waged around the which is still discriminatory it­tention of this article is not to ground to influence U.S. mili-weapons to obliterate millions world. self -except in a few back-provide voluminous scriptural tary policy. While I do not im-of people in the Soviet Union, In addition, the simple fact of ward states, can one be perse­passages to support my argu­pugn their motives, will a few can hardly be considered the existence of nuclear cuted in this manner for one's ment. Instead, I will give my mid-level officers who may moral. Even the U.S. Catholic weapons is a significant and sexual orientation. Women as a general impressions of what I think that the U.S. does not use Bishops have stated that the unmitigatable source of insecu-group-fully half of the popu­have always considered to be a its forces in a manner consis-use of nuclear weapons is im-rity for all of the people of the lation -are discriminated relatively uncontroversial tent with Christian values make moral. Yet, I hear many people world, and especially the popu-against in the military. reading of Christianity. This is much of a difference? For in the military, who profess to lations of the U.S. and Soviet Everyone knows that women that it counsels nonviolence, years we have had Christian be Christian, say that they Union. Pragmatic resort to cannot participate in combat even in the face of violence. ROTC, but I see little evidence would carry out such an order. military means, then, has done and therefore are excluded 
What is taught in ROTC that that any progress has been A second response is that very little to ensure our secu-from some of the highest makes it so antithetical to made in infusing the military Christianity can support ROTC rity. Second. in taking a more reaches of power in the mili-Christianity? The cadets are with Christian values. on pragmatic ground. This general look at Christianity, tary. taught strategy, military ethics, When I see a ROTC cadet claim is untenable for two rea-pragmatism does not play a In sum, then, the basic roes-leadership, and other things from Notre Dame interviewed sons. First, on the specific case very large role, if it plays any sage on which Christianity is which do not sound very odi­for a program about peace-of the Catholic Church, this di-role at all. I have always under-founded --do no harm to ous. The cadets will say that making, I hear him say that the rectly contradicts its own stood that Christ's basic mes-others and, in fact, aid those in they are learning all of these United States needs to function teachings. If the Church can sage was fairly straightforward need-is incompatible with the skills and are participating in as a "big brother" for smaller claim that abortion is murder and unequivocal-do not harm ultimate ends of ROTC. The the military to keep peace by states, especially those in Latin and therefore immoral, why do other people. There does not cadets will say that their mis-preventing war from breaking America, because they do not they not totally and absolutely seem to be much leeway in that sion is the "management of vio­out. Some of them have said always make the right choices condemn all other violence and message. It does not say do not lence." Yet, this still entails the that they are in the same busi­for themselves. I have found murder. and the teaching harm other people unless your use of violence. Therefore, ness as those of us in the Peace this paternalism and arrogance thereof? One can certainly government tells you to or for ROTC is inconsistent with Institute-peace. Yet, at the is prevalent among the military. make the case that abortion other pragmatic reasons. It Christianity. very heart of their training. the and I must ask whether ROTC should be legal on pragmatic does not, as I have always non: cadets are being taught at Notre Dame is achieving its grounds, but the church has ig-understood it, have any to follow orders and ultimately, goal of instilling the Christian nored any such arguments. One qualifications whatsoever. Kurt Mills is a graduate stu­if given the order, to kill other values which might be useful in may assume. then, that resort In addition to the above ar-dent in the Institute for human beings. whether one by the military. to pragmatism is inconsistent guments, let me make one more International Peace Studies. 
Notre Dame reinforces values essential to the military 
discuss what they had learned 
By Douglass Hemphill 
here, including the University's 
role in clarifying their con­
Hound three of the 1990 science. They said discussions Iceberg Debates concerns the with non-ROTC students, best compatibility of ROTC pro­challenged their thought pro­grams and the Christian char­cesses and focused their convic­acter and teachings of the tions. Furthermore, the seniors University of Notre Dame. all agreed that the more dra­
Because this is a question I've matic challenge had come from 
been involved with for close to small class discussions, most 
four years now, the Iceberg specifically the Arts and Letters 
Debates Steering Committee Core Course, with its focus on 
asked me to set out my views. value-oriented discussion. 
As the 1983 U.S. Catholic Each went on to say that, in 
Bishops' pastoral letter Ffhe their opinion, the supportive 
Challenge of Peace: God's community, the atmosphere of 
Promise and Our Hesponse) religious belief, and the 
makes clear, we Christians are common dedication to values 
not in agreement on how to here mak!=J it an ideal place for 
meet our "inalienable obliga­the development of conscience. 
tion" to defend peace; some of 
us do so by bearing arms, while These are lofty goals, but leader must be able to transmit different; leaders at every level ROTC programs are designed 
others forswear arms entirely. they must be lofty; from that those values to others, and are expected-in fact, required to select, motivate and prepare 
I don't intend to argue the rela­moment, each of these officers must be ready to stand by those by their own freely taken students to assume roles as 
tive merits of Just War theory will play an active part in the values regardless of the cost in oath-to set the example. When leaders in maintaining the na­
and Christian Pacifism; these preservation of peace, the pro­personal success or popularity. they do so, the United States tional defense and ensuring 
theories coexist, however un­vision of security, and the A leader, in the Armed Forces military is a model of integrity, that deterrence continues to 
comfortably, in Catholic think­maintenance of freedom. Their or in civilian life, will be in­responsibility. and commit­succeed. Students, like those at 
ing. What I do want to discuss commissions charge them to volved daily in ethicaVmoral de­ment; when they fail, everything Notre Dame, whose ethical 
is the focus on values and ethi­act as representatives of the cisions. Not all of them will al­the Nation stands for is convictions are examined and 
cal behavior which creates United States, in accordance ter the face of society; most, in threatened. In the military reinforced on a daily basis-are 
what I believe is a great degree with the laws, treaties and val­fact, will appear so inconse­profession, moral standards some of the very best candi­
of compatibility between ROTC ues that define this Nation. The quential that making them be­are not simply nice to have; dates to assume those roles 
and what Notre Dame is about. training and instruction they comes almost automatic. But they are essential-they are the and exercise ethical leadership. 
In a little more than three receive in ROTC classes make these daily moral decisions are foundation of the entire profes­Those of us in the Armed 
months approximately 175 se­very clear the obligations they not nearly so inconsequential sion. Forces. or who are about to en­
niors from the Notre Dame have under the law, and the as they may at first appear. So what does all this have to ter military service, have a spe­
community will accept commis­moraVethical foundations of Every one of them establishes a do with ROTC at the University cial obligation "as the custodi­
sions as United States Army, these obligations. precedent for subsequent be­of Notre Dame? A great deal, ans of the security and freedom 
Marine Corps, Navy and Air havior that will become habit­in my mind. The University of of their fellow countrymen." 
Force officers. The oath they But ROTC classes are only a ual, and that habitual behavior Notre Dame is in the business 
will take swears them to uphold part of their education and will determine how the larger of creating leaders: not the What better place to reinforce 
the values and ideals upon growth. If a university is truly a ethical decisions are made. kind of leaders who measure the values that are the basis for 
which this nation was founded. "community of ideas," then the value or success in terms of the this obligation than a university 
In swearing that oath, these ideas with which students come Maybe even more signifi­"bottom line," but leaders who dedicated to the service of God, 
new officers will commit them­in contact sixteen or more cantly, the daily decisions and understand that success is Country and Notre Dame? 
selves " ... without any mental hours every day are even more daily behavior that a leader ex­quantified in terms of steward­What better place to prepare 
reservation ... to support ... de­significant in their preparation hibits are absolutely critical in ship and service, of commit­moral, responsible officers than 
fend ... [and) bear true faith for postgraduate life. And when shaping the ethical behavior of ment and competence, and of a university which has been at 
and allegiance" to the values these members of the student his or her subordinates and caring. the center of the search for 
expressed in the Constitution: body develop leadership, judg­contemporaries. It is, sadly peace? ROTC is here because 
liberty, equality. human dignity, ment, and the ability to influ­enough, human nature to think, This kind of leadership begins the University of Notre Dame 
justice, and personal freedom. ence others, the emphasis on "If the boss does it, I can do it with ethical values, whether the provides the caliber of 
At the same time, they will responsibility, integrity and too." Major corporations rec­leader be military or civilian. individual we need to lead our 
promise their respective mili­ethical action which they receive ognize this, and those which When the University Committee Nation and our Armed Forces. 
tary services to base their pro­through HOTC is fed back into lead the way in terms of corpo­on Ethics in ROTC was in ses­
fessional and personal conduct the community at large. rate ethics have leaders who set sion two years ago, seniors Lt. Col. Douglass Hemphill is a 
on integrity. responsibility. and Commitment to ethical values the example for their employ­from the three ROTC units met professor of military science in 
service. is only a beginning, though. A ees. The Armed Forces are not with the committee members to the Army ROTC program. 

Happy Valentine's Day 
page 8 Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
"coyote ugly," and "double coy­
Summer job interviews -Average HUMAN IT AS JOURNAL NOTICES earnings $3,400. University PERSONALS now accepting essays, fiction and 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY ote ugly" (aquired by three most heinous and unfortunate Directories, the nation's largest book reviews. Submit to English PHILIP JOHN JOSEPH ROBERT publisher of campus telephone Office by feb. 16th. 
CLIFFORD KRAKER!!!! acts of my own). ...................... THE VOTES HAVE been tallied; 
directories, hires over 200 college ADOPTION Word Processing students lor their summer sales Doctor & artist, happily married, 
...................... its formally and unquestionab-Can return on disk program. Top earnings $5,000-warm, seek white newborn to love 
ly a landslide victory for JC. Pick up and delivery $8,000. Gain valuable experience and cherish. legal, confidential. CLUB 23 
.... 

NEXT TIME WE TRY to stop 
271-9114 in advertising, sales and public Please call Hanna & Mark collect HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY you-relations selling yellow page (212) 864-5512 Offering our specialty TO THE FIGHTIN' F-GS OF 814 LISTEN TO US!! 
Signed: Rags
TYPING AVAILABLE advertising lor your campus MIDDLE EAST CUISINE •••••••••••••••••••••• 287-4082 telephone directory. Positions also Parrot Heads Forever!!! Open for dinner 5 -11 pm 
...................... 

available in other university Monday to Saturday •• 
AMK, VG, & JK, 
EXPERT TYPING markets. Expense paid training PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN P.S GO 'NISES, ROLL ON P.E. $3/PG program in Chapel Hill, NC. PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, THE CLUB 23 INTERHALL BASKETBALL! 
YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST 
291-3829 looking lor enthusiastic, goal­LOVING HOME FOR YOUR THREE ROOMMATES EVER.
oriented students for challenging, BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS Featuring up & coming bands. 
I'LL MISS YOU NEXT YEAR. 
looking for a corporate sponsor well-paying summer job. OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. Don't miss our evening Do you have that special gilt you ENJOY YOUR VALENTINE'S 
for your fundraiser? Maybe I can Internships may be available. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. specials. were always afraid to use in DAY!
help. Jay x 1856 Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. 234-3541 'MO' public? Maybe $450 will change 
20. Sign up at the Career & your mind. 
LOVE+SMILESMAIL BOXES ETC. Placement Services. Happy Valentine's Day JEFF 01 Shipping, Copies, Cards. CP, Silver BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Dear Cannon, ML, Sherbert, YZ, HNJ laser Quality For French Graduate Student Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, Sadist, and John, 
Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. NEEDS living accomodations includes meals, parties, 
Happy Valentine's Day Thanks for the couches, com­Need a ride to Columbus this 
277-MAIL near campus. Call Didier the BR & !bass -Ag, Jeff, accomodations, some rooms have forter, and counselling. Hope weekend, 2116-2118
days 239-7596 Louise,Carolyn,Sally, Joe kitchens, leaves from Ft. you have a great Valentine's 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB .. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, Day. call Mike at X1114
Alumni Senior Club applications Happy Valentine's Day 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Love, Hawk and Big Butt ~ Lewis 4N -Your RA Break Travel 1-800-638-6786.
for bartenders and managers now FOR RENT available in Student Activities 
WVFI wants to know: How

Office. 4 Bdrm home for rent Dearest Douglas: Steve, 1122 Blyler Place -just a little something ...................... I hope we can remain, together, 
•••••••••••••••••••••• 
much do you like sweets? 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. (616)695-3786 to let you know what I think forever young. SUGARCUBES, perhaps? 
about you! Happy Valentine's I Love You .....
REASONABLE PRICES. Tracey, Happy Valentine's Day ........................ 
289-1743. House lor 1990-91 school year Day. I love you! WPF and Furnished, secure home, 5 -Forever yours, Donna ...................... (remember that first phone call) 
How about an evening in Chicago
RIDE NEEDED bedrooms, WID ...................... Happy 7 months! 
with the Sugarcubes???
to St.louis, this weekend! Close to NO Watch for details soon.

Will pay $$. Call Josh #1525 Competitive rent 264-601 0 Need Ride to or near Pitt 2/15-Tam WVFI AM640 
16 or any wknd $$ JoAnne 1270 ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room St. Jude, please hear my prayer. IRISH MUSIC THE WORLD in house near campus. Quiet, Jess TOUR w John Kennedy and 
' LOST/FOUND I 
comfortable. Furnished or un­Roses are red Coming soon .. whoever 
!!'BOY WHAT A SURPRISE!!! 

HELP...I lost a sapphire/diamond furnished. Considerate, non­Violets are blue Cliff Erickson else shows up. Friday To: Col, W, Melissa, Flex, Meg, ring I High Sentimental smoker a must. $225/mo. Call If I give you fifty bucks Where? Alumni Sr. Club CLUB 23 Sheila, Jen. Liz, Breeze, Katie, 
value'"reward 232-9952. will you be my valentine When? Feb 15 & 16 Theresa, Scooter, Karin, Mary, 
Call Debbie 2935 Sid, Staph, Dave, Little Pete, Kelly, 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Hess-man Check out the New Price on I • you ...... sooooo much!'!! 
Gucks. Miss Boyden. The Wing.
FOUND: RING IN 116 O'SHAG 219-291-7153. Club Cup Nile ............ .. Nancy 
Dorothy and anyone else that I
CALL X 4852 JEANMARIE Sid and Nancy. Stuff. 
may have forgotten (sorry)due to
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SPRING BREAK 
my old age as well as my roomies
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 MJG, Eighteen, Divwop and the ex­
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE •••••••••••••••••••••• LIFE IS TOO SHORT FOR ME DAYTONA Prime Mmister. 
WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES 3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM NOT TO TELl. YOU HOW I FEEL, 
•••••••••••••••••••••• 
Thanx for everything -You Guyz
(GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND CAMPUS. 234-1714. ••• I LOVE YOU -I ALWAYS HAVE $139 rm only $229 w. trans. 
are the Best!!! 
IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239-Margaret, AND ALWAYS WILL. high quality accommadations Don't go Chang in' --> Neaux
5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. WANTED TO RENT-SUMMER I'm glad things are happening the MMM APT: Ex NO staffer and wife desire way they are. You're a great girl. call Todd 1·800-265-1799 
I hereby rescind my thank you to
FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM to rent furnished apartment for Sorry we can't go out Wednesday, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHIL six of the above -nice pic!! 
123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL summer, preferable in Mishawaka. but we'll definitely do something Believe it or not, you have TF X4098 TO CLAIM. Non-smokers, references. Write on Friday. HAPPY VALENTINE'S survived to face yet another major 135 Lakeview Dr., Mulberry, Fla. DAY! holiday with me!!! What? Another surprise for you? Lost at North Dining Hall: Blue 33860 or call (8 13) 425-4404. ...................... Thanks for your patience and Candy and a personal too! 
HAPPY LOVE FEST EVE TO
backpack w/ grey suede bottom ...................... support, have a happy v-day I just wanted another way to say, 
ALL II
containing 2 red notebooks. If honey, Have a splendiferous Valentine's lovefest 90 lovefest 90!!! 
found, PLEASE call Mike x4057. Love, Day! 
LOVE FEST 90 LOVE FEST 90!!! 
FOR SALE hey Mary, Molly Well, again I've left my mark. 
love is coming back to town
congrats on Michigan. Have More later ATTENTION FEMALE fun, study hard, and doni eat to 'new LAMINATING new'
WANTED 

TRAVELERS !!!!!!!!!!!!!! much ice cream!!! (don't get at The Copy Shop in LaFortune Love, 
PRE PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY
FOR SALE: Spring Break plane obligated either') the Shark 
MEETING 2/14

CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all ticket to Ft. lauderdale. Peggie ADOPTION 6:30PM 127 NIEUWLAND positions. Both skilled and Best Offer call Molly at Hello, General Campus Sense: SHORT -PLEASE COME
unskilled. Apply from home. For 234-5410 Physician and wife, happily •••••••••••••••••••••• information Call: (615) 779-5507 DON'T WALK TO SENIOR BAR married for ten years, would dearly Ext. R-200. NEC 54" projection TV OR THE PARKING LOTS love to adopt a baby. We have a 
We love you. Mike Kolnik! 
PERFECT FOR DORMS ALONE!!! comfortable home to share and The story of Valentine's Day is OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 Call NO Dept. of Comm. & Theatre CALL SAFEWALK!!! most importantly lots of love, pertinent to you, because it 
xoxox

mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII 239-7054 283-BLUE patience and understanding. We involves your ancestors. 
The Gang 

Countries,AII fields. Free info. live on 20 rolling acres with a large Long ago, St. Valentine was (left, right, and on top)
Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona lawn, pond and woods. We will imprisoned in a cellar, and he Del Mar, CA 92625. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO provide your child with the best wanted to send messages to his 
JON SAMPSON 

[ TICKETS SIEGFRIED ROOM 334!!! educational opportunities. We will loved ones. So he plucked heart­
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 1990
DESPERATELY SEEKING A LOVE, REM pay medical and legal expenses. shaped leaves from a PLANT by PIANO IN GOOD CONDITION. NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO VS Please call collect for a recorded his window, and poked messages DO YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 message. (219) 625-4205. in the leaves with a pin. These 
Happy Valentines Day 
TO SELL TO ME? CALL SHIRLEY Join the RUSH Defamation were the first 'Valentines.' This is Uncles Joe, Jake, Dave& Chris 
@ 239-5303 BETWEEN 8:30 AM Help' I need 2 student tickets and League! Apply on door, 333 important to you because, of Your best niece, Jill 
& 3:30PM. one GA for the Georgia Tech Stanford. course, you are a HOUSEPLANT. game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
SWOOP,SHAG,CALLIE,LONGWA
Ride needed to COLUMBUS, ...................... 
Y AND PETEY­
OH Friday 2/16. Call Jackie WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO ND­SOPHOMORES !!! 
Happy Valentine's Day.
x4114 MIZZOU GAME ON MARCH 3. ...................... Happy Valentine's Day!!' 
CALL COLLECT 314-449-7618 ...................... Are you ready for Advanced ••••••••• 
-your secret admirer 

EVENINGS. ••••sarah C. Sarah C. Sarah C. Registration on March 19th? Love, 
The guy selling the flowers at Have you selected your J-vowel-double consonant ROB VIEYRA, 
COUNSELORS, summer camp for $NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ SMC (alias Brennan H.) would major? AT AN OSWEGO SUNSET ON 
MR, June 1 0-Augusl 18, Orlando, call Jim x1646 like to cordially invite you to the St. Happy Valentine's Day, Pete. 
VALENTINE'S DAY, I'M
FL (407) 889-8088. Ed's SYR on Feb. 23. If you answered no, consider love, THINKING OF YOU.
HEY NOW!! I NEED DEAD TIX -Brennan H. registering for the CAREER/ Kelly LOVE.
FOR LANDOVER,MD SHOWS P.S. I have your number. Mine is MAJOR DECISION MAKING ...................... 
MICHELLE
(SPRING BREAK) MARY WORKSHOP starting the week 
x1634. ...................... 
NO SPORTS PICTURES 2593808 of February 19th at the WANTED •••••••••••••••••••••• University Counseling Center . ...................... Dear Carra, 
Will pay good money for OH BOY DO I NEED MISSOURI Call 239-7336 to register or ...................... 
Hey Gorgeous! I finally 

Football, Basketball pictures BASKETBALL TICKETS! CALL for more information. 
got a personal in for you! 
call Tom@ 2185 X3601. hi ag Hey, Pete, look lor another secret I love you very much!
personal elsewhere in today's 

........................Desparately This is also a belated happy
classilieds. 

9-months. It's been incredible and 
NEEDED: A ride to Ball State any need two Missouri B-ball tickets. ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF READ EXODUS 22:18 will only get weekend x 1938 Call Kristen at #2670 PRAYER AND JOYOUS READ EXODUS 22:18 better.
COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A READ EXODUS 22:18 ATTENTION: 
I love you, 

Subway Sandwiches CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: •Joel The Slayer Scruffy Man 
Part time driver for delivery to ND· 4 Billy Joel nx for sale. Mon Feb POOR CLARES, •Men of Lawrence SMC campuses only. 19. Market Square Arena, Indy. 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY •OC Vermin Good wage, car allowance, tips. $30 each. Call x2615 SOON I!! KOKOMO, IN 46901. •••••••••••••••••••••• •and all Carrollites 
277-7744 ...................... Tom-
LET IT BE KNOWN that due to Thanks for making me real
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x the set of circumstances sur­
Happy Valentine's Day 
233-6582 DJW-Happy Valentine's Day! I SUNSHINE AND MARY rounding the aforementioned Love, Kristin
Ride to U of W, Mad1son. Friday love you. Love, Your Maiden MAHONEY party (i.e. JC) on 12 Mon.1990, anytime to Sunday. Call Tara HELP! I need 2 GA's for I regretfully yet humbly step x4058. GEORGIA TECH. Kevin x1638 down from both of my reign­ing titles, hitherto known as 
Happy Valentine's Day 
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
...................... 
Oh, by the way­Don't you know that I can make a dream that's barely half awake come true? I wanted to say-But anything I could've said I felt somehow that you already knew. 
...................... 
Happy Valentine's Day to the one and only 
...................... 
...................... 
T.Bass 

............,,,,,,,,.. 
Love and plenty of smooches. Jeff 
Happy Valentine's Day to the B.R .. in London. Warmest wishes from Jeff. 
' 
LAURA GRITZ: Hey baby! (Strange hand motion). Thank you for the pieces of the Wall!! Hope you didn't wreak too much havoc on Russia! Where did you hide your rubles!!?? WE MISS YOU! Wuv (true wuv) from: Pita, Hoofs. & Lisa G. 
P.S. Happy Valentines Day•••• 
' 
To the women of 5N REGINA: May your Valentine's Day be as sweet as you are. 
Love. your RA 
MELISSA MANCIAS 
Happy VD from your crazy valentine. I know that this isn't very proper. but then neither arn L We, however, are great together. Opposites do attract. 
Love. 
Marcus 

Lisa Michelle. Happy Valentine's Day! The past four months have been the best. • I LOVE YOU!¥ Love Always. Mitch 
KJT· Somehow you've made it to another Valentine's Day with me, so I"m starting to think that we might have something going here! Have a great day and thanks for everything you do for me. I LOVE YOUJIIJI -JFD 
Marilyn-••You are the greatest person that I have ever metI•• Ever since Dec. 31, 1988, I haven't been able to stop thinking about you.'''' want to be BEST 
FRIENDS FOREVER ''''' Happy Valentines Day! ¥James• 
Kathy Ann, Have a wonderful Valentine's Day!! 
Love always, Jeff 

For all the special times. For what has been and what wiU be. I send in this long distance Valentine. All my love to you Anne-Marie. 
TOP TEN THINGS WE LOVE ABOUT THE FISHER GUYS: tO. Eric Lutz's ability to enter-tain without knowing it-his trend-setting hair, too! 
9. Doug and Eric's "late night olympic" ice-throwing and Doug's dancing ability just can't be beat-"11 was I___ -ing awesome!" 
8. Ken's knack for knowing when the '1ime is right for a silly song." 
7. Anthony Valle's love for his teddy bear, his beer mug, and his Doors double album. 
6. Dave Hail: soulmate-"Susan lives on a golf course." 
5. Rob Henning's many loves: Sol Goldman, Barry Manilow, feet, "Grace", Ron Jeremy, the mermaid, and periwinkle blue. 4.Rob Nabor's quote:"You know these guys come [over] and they are still hard [to relate to] ... Oh! Hi Dianne!" P.S.-Turn around, Rob! 
3. Steve(t.S.W.) Reed: shares the couch, shares the tunes, but shows no mercy when the ch.28 weather babe is on!! 
2. Pat Midden's RED sleepwear, ability to make the most of the least he can get, and his "42" ways of serving things cold. We • you, Patster! !.The lovely floral arrange­ments in the 72-1 mean 24 hr. lounge. Love the decor, Br. Ed! 
WE • YOU GUYS!-Eyore&Molly 
To S.O.L, my favorite BEANCOUNTING Major, HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!, and if you're ready to take me up on my offer, how about dinner, Friday, at the Fondue Parlor. Sound good? 
Kermit 
P.S. Not bad for a MARKETING major, huh? 
Be sure to come out and wish Jim Shilder a Happy 22nd at 1 p.m. in the 01 Parking Lot at the James P Shilder Memorial Fence. This fine landmark is dedicated to Jim by our very own Security Dept. 
Beatrice, Will you save me from the pit of disp.air? Judas just isn't good company. 
R2: Will you be my Valentine on Thursday? Love, TB 
...Hope you see this one! Happy V-Day #4 
Love. Rob 
¥Jim Happy Valentine's Day! Watch My lips, Je !'amour. 
•Moe 
AL YCIA TOZAR To the nicest girl I know Have a Happy Valentine's Day! Your favorite pest 
Roni Garza is the hottest babe at the University of Notre Dame and possibly the world. 
•••·MJG 
CHRISTINA TELESCA 
"I"m lonely tonight I'm missing you now I'm wanting your love" 
Happy Valentine's Day (from very far away) 
TAZ 
Dino, my Dino ...you're the best big brother in the whole world, even if you hate my hair. ••:••monica 
roberto, spunk king and microbe hunter: do me, do me, make me holler. and, have a happy sweetheart's day. •mo 
will¥¥word, you goose. smooches and smooches. mo 
Queenie cocks and TUTS: you two make my liver quiver, my bladder splatter. thanks for letting me be your pet freshman, even if I am a scammer. ¥¥¥¥Mony 
...................... 
¥ WUB NUl! WUB NU!! WUB NUl!¥ 
...................... 

HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, COLE & KRISTIN! NOW YOU CAN'T SAY THAT NOBODY LOVES YOU! 
YOUR GEEK ROOMMATE 
FROM MAINE 

ERIC, THANK YOU FOR TWO YEARS AND EIGHT MONTHS OF BLISS. 
I THINK YOU ARE THE GREATEST AND AM ANXIOUS FOR OUR FUTURE. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY FROM YOUR KU SWEETIE! I LOVE YOU . DANA 
Colleen, 
Happy Valentine's Day, Sweetheart. Wish you could be here . 
Love Always, John 

P.S. You know what they say about those Irish girls. 
•
JIM, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! I MISS YOU VERY MUCH AND I HOPE YOU ARE ABLE TO VISIT ME SOON. 
LOVE, LIZ 

Here's to a great final Valentine's Day with all you Seniors! Thought I"d take a minute out of my ever so busy schedule to say Hi and good luck on the job searches! Remember Minnie, Laurie, and any other wandering minds that Chicago is it!! New York? Seattle? ...... Naa! ...... Kel. .... 
BOB: I hope you have a great Valentine's day (after). I"m looking forward to our 3rd. I love you! Rl 
KEVIN O'MEARA, 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE WISH YOU WERE HERE WITH ME AT X.U. 
LOVE, TRIPLE M 
Australopithecus Afarensis: Missing you terribly. Can't wait for fun in the sun in San Diego. Happy Valentine's Day! CAL 
P.S. Also can't wait to see the little something. 
Jill, Kendall,and Monique: Are you ready for singles night? Let's share it together so we have decent memories!' 
¥Michael 

TO THE WOMEN OF 5 NO. REGINA: HOPE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY IS AS SWEET AS YOU ARE. LOVE, YOUR R.A. 
BUBBLE BATH QUEEN, YOU'LL NEVER KNOW JUST HOW MUCH YOU MEAN TO ME. YOU'RE THE GREATEST. 
LOVE, YOUR YANKEE SWEETHEART 
...................... 
Joe DiMaria, Happy Valentine's Day! I love you very much. Love, Kelley 
JFD& J 
Bubba you! And by the way, I haven't lost my VSA yet, have you? Show me. Love, KJT & M 
Happy ¥Day to a valentine who IRONS! Love, Di 
PRISCILLA 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY I COULD NEVER LOVE YOU MORE 
PETE 
''''SPHB, 
Roses are red 
And so·are you! Happy Valentines Anniversary 
'''''''''''''KEITH AND 
KEVIN'''''''' HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO MY FAVORITE A-HOLES. LOVE YOU GUYS A TON!!!!!!!!!!!! 
xxoo 
-YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
your art is fabulous, Rembrandt! Happy Valentine's Day! i luv u! FOP 
MISTER SEVENZ: HEY PHIL: HAPPY V -DAY! love, your VEE 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
KRISTIN!!! I HOPE IT'S ONE THAT IS FILLED WITH LOTS OF SUGAR, LOTS OF MELTING, AND EVEN A MISTAKE OR TWO! 
LOVE, PETE 
Cathy, To the sweetest Valentine anyone could wish for ... Happy V­Day! Love John . 
love ya, LAMB. who else? 
JESSICA-I had no idea that lifting was this rewarding! Happy St. V's Day • Timmy 
BRIAN¥¥¥ Happy 3rd Valentine's together! I Love You! ¥Cheryl 
Elizabeth, Thank you for making my Sophomore year so great. Happy Valentine's day. Oh, don't forget to feed the kid. Love, 
John•••••••••••..•••••• 
Hey Lori, Happy Valentine's Day! Love, All 
Jeanne Blasi, Betcha didn't think I'd actually go through with this ad. I know it's not the most exciting personal in the world, but I hope you like it as much as those nightly serenades. Have a happy Valentine's Day. 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Mom, Dad, Terri, Jason, Megan, and Grandma Wasko!! I LOVE YOU ALUI 
Luv, Lisa 
I JUST WANTED TO TELL MS, SM, KM. BS, NT, HH, JD, NR TO HAVE A HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! AND I CLAIM ANY SNORTING GUYS! 
LOVE,RY 
..., .... 
• 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY & HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
MM-The past year has been wonderful and I hope the best is yet to come. Take care of yourself . I wish I was there . 
-RH 
page 9 

The mystery of St. Valentine 
(AP)-The identity of the first St. Valentine is about as mysterious as love itself. 
Historians say Valentine's Day has its origins in the third century, when two Christian martyrs, both named Valentine, were executed. A pagan festival to fertility, called the Lupercalia, was still being cele­brated at that time, and because it fell around the martyrs' Feb. 14 feast day, St. Valentine became the protector of lovers. 
The people of Terni, Italy, a steel-making town between Rome and Perugia, insist their St. Valentine was the one who started the annual day of love. The town's patron saint was beheaded Feb. 14 in the year 270, after having been imprisoned and whipped. 
Legend has it that Valentine had a garden where he let children play and lovers meet. While imprisoned, Valentine tied the keys of the garden gate to two pigeons with a message inviting the children to return to the garden. 
A version of the Terni story has Valentine, in his 76 years as bishop, giving lovers flowers from the gar­den. One couple who encountered the bishop enjoyed such a happy marriage that every couple wanted his blessing. 
The story is complicated by a second St. Valentine, also beheaded in the third century, in Rome, and who also has a feast day Feb. 14. 
But "Valentine 2" may not have been a saint at alL Some scholars say a church built on Rome's Via Flaminia by a man named Valentine somehow became known as St. Valentine's church, starting a legend about a non-existent saint. 
The Roman Catholic Church takes a neutral stance and designates no patron saint of lovers. The Vatican Congregation for the Causes of Saints says 17 Valentines are listed in the official encyclopedia of saints, including ones from Italy, France, Spain and Germany. 
Terni's bishop, Franco Gualdrini, also refuses to claim his town's saint as the definitive champion of love. 
"It is a popular tradition," Gualdrini once said of the adulation St. Valentine now receives. "Some things are proclaimed from above, some are proclaimed from below." 
Hearts 
continued from page 1 
$98 a limb at Macy's -and Vietnamese potbellied pigs. 
Americans will give their Valentines $611 million worth of candy this year, about $2.50 in sweets for every man, woman and child, says Richard O'Connell, president of the National Confectioners Association. 
If that $611 million were translated into choco­late kisses at the New York City price of $5 a pound, about 93 kisses, it would buy 122.2 million pounds. If all those kisses were laid end to end, the chain of chocolate would circle the globe 6.4 times. 
If you don't want to make your baby  a  blimp,  
merchants have a few suggestions.  
Bloomingdale's  has  some  "really  fun  boxer  

shorts with hearts on them," said spokeswoman Jennifer Conner. They also have T-shirts with "big red lips" on them. The apparel will set you back about $20. 
Victoria's Secret, the mildly racy lingerie chain, offers toiletries for those who don't feel their rela­tionships are up to intimate underthings. 
But business is still brisk in undies, said spokeswoman Laura Holbrook. "Oversized satin T­shirts, silk camisoles and pants in rich gem colors like emerald, ruby, sapphire will be big," she said. 
A little more upscale, Bergdorf Goodman has red silk pajamas for $375, a matching robe for $375 and bath oil for $63 -a mere $813 to get your sweetheart clean and ready for bed . 
SUMIIEA J08S fxluNSELORS-Boys~. W. t.Ws. I Girts Camp, Maine Top Salary, RmiBdll.aundry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one ol the lolowing activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, ease.~~. Basketball, Bicycling. Cheerla.ing. Dance, Drama. Drums. Fencing, Golf. ~ar. Gymnastics, Hockey, ~ Karate. t..ac:ro.se. Nu.n, Nurses, Photography. Plano, Radio, Rocketry. Ropes. Sallboning, Sailing, Sab3, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, WattNiki, Weights, Wood. Men call Of write: Camp Wlnadu. 5 Glen ~. Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. WCIK1l8n call or write:~ Vega, P.O. Box 1n1, Duxbury. MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 

Accent
page 10 Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
Dear Accent Love Goddess, 
This guy in my Finite class asked me to his SYR, but I'm afraid that he wants to get more physical than dancing. How can I let him know I'm not that kind of girl? 
-Persistently Pure in P.E. 
Boys only want one thing, and it's up to us to deprive them of it after teasing them into an erotic frenzy. If one of your suitors has the audacity to try to kiss you with his mouth open, try one of my little speeches: "Please, (insert name for personal touch), don't pressure me into heavy petting. I lind you attractive as a mate and admire the way you do pivoting in class, but I am a flower of Mary, and wish to keep my virtue intact." Most Notre Dame men will respect you for your values and fall to their knees, saying, "Praise Jesus! I was merely testing you; I see you are the woman I was meant to marry." (P.S.) 
Dear Accent Love God, 
I am embarrassed to write because I think you might lind my problem silly. You see, I have a crush on one of my teuchers. She's u lot older than me and I cun't even get up the courage to talk to her. I have tried slip­ping in phrases in my papers that say things like, "I want you so bad," hoping she'll leav(~ some positive comments on my paper. However, she returned it with only "It's ·r want you so badly', not 'so bad'." Needless to say, I'm failing her class. Please help me befort> r either flunk out or explode with desire. 
-Frustrated in American Studies 
You're right, I do lind your problem silly. What a silly problem! HA IIA IIA IIA! No, no, just kidding, we here at Accent never laugh at people with problems. (Not to their face, anyway.) So you're in low with your teachPr. Your first move, trying to reach her through your assignments, was a good one, but perhaps you should stop trying to address her conscious mind. Try accessing the subliminal, as this sample illustrates: "By the late 16th century (You love me), the renaissance was in full bloom (You want me) as artists from throughout Europe sought the patronage (You ne1~d me) of the powerful deMedici family." After a few more paragraphs like that, she'll either be putty in your hands, or your grades will be so bad you 'II finally be able to drop out of Notre Dame and entf~r the wonderful and fi­nancially rewarding world of refrigerator repair. (J.M.) 
Dear Accent Love Goddess, 
Chicks just don't dig me, and I'm oot sure what the problem is. rs there a certain cologne r should be wearing? How should I dress? Should I get a nickname? 
-A Dweeb from Dillon 
There are so many ways to score big with the babes. Cologne is a start-for instance, generous douses of "Obsession" make us want to pose with several nude men with indistinguishable limbs, like in the ads. Your attire can 

Frustrated? Confused? Repressed? Put a little Accent into your love life 

also be very influential; don't dressing on her. What can I the world's food output, be afraid to layer your do? scientists estimate it may be leathers. But I think your best -Salivating in Sorin only a matter of hours before bet would be to procure a the entire planet is covered in provocative nickname. Women Kool Whip, grape jelly, eighteen feet of processed are irresistably drawn to guys chocolate syrup, sour cream food, effectively suffocating all named "Snake." We can't help and ranch dressing? Why life on earth. "There's just too but wonder how the "Hocket" stop there? How about a little much food to eat," said one really got his name. Animal Bluebonnet margarine­worried scientist. "Unless we nicknames are preferred; ask "Everything's better with lind something else to do with yourself. "What poultry would Bluebonnet on it," remember? it-like, say, smearing it on I like to be? Is there an But seriously, as an objective women's bodies-civilization amphibian that embodies the journalistic observer, it is my as we know it will come to an qualities I wish to 
end." emphasize?" Don't make the Bon Appetit! (I.M.) mistake of choosing something like "Maggot," which might Dear Accent Love Goddess, turn off women, or "Sperm I am a beautiful Whale," which might frighten junior, the pride and joy of them. Trust me; "Chinchilla" Mod Quad. My problem is I will get more chicks than want freshmen. Big "Warren" will. (P.S.) inexperienced freshmen. Is 
this motherly instinct Dear Accent Love God, normal? Please help me. Cathy -A Siren in Siegfried 
considered professional and I have a great relation­
opinion that you sound like 
ship, except for one thing: I Who can resist a younger
one sick puppy. Still, there
think that using assorted man? They're fresh. 
may be a way for you to
foodstuffs in sexual unspoiled, and haven't
satisfy your kinky condiment 
situations can be both realized yet that lines like 
craving (no extra charge for 
exciting and fun. Just a little "Have you seen the view of the 
that alliteration there). Try
Kool Whip or Smuckers Dome from my bed?" don't 
cutting out the following and 
Grape Jelly can liven up an work. But you're forgetting 
showing it to Cathy sometime 
otherwise dull evening and that they are at an
when she's not thinking too 
introduce a little variety in a impressionable age, and are
clearly:
relationship. She says that especially vulnerable to ad­with all of the hungry and vances from sultry older 
WORLD HUNGER ELIMI­

starving people in the world, temptresses. Instead of toying 
NATED; FOOD SURPLUS
"wasting" Chocolate syrup or with them, encourage them to
THREATENS PLANETARY 
sour cream in this way would go out with girls their own
SURVIVAL

be immoral. I've tried to age, who share the same
NEW YORK (AP)-The
convince her that we can use interests, who are in the same
United Nations announced 
the extra stuiT that they gym rotation. The gratification 
today that the last hungry 
throw away at the dining from "breaking in" a
person in the world had been
halls, which would go to freshman is nothing compared 
fed. "No thanks, I couldn't eat 
waste anyway, but she says to the warm feeling of 
another bite," the satisfied 
that dining hall food disgusts socializing a freshman. If you 
Ethiopian was reported to
her, and that it's too don't teach them that there is
have remarked upon being 
fattening anyway. I really more to Notre Dame than 
offered a second helping. 
love he~·. but this problem Nintendo, Monday Night 
With hunger a thing of the 
has been gnawing at Football, and passing out after 
past and modern agricultural 
me-she'd look so much 11 Bud Lites, they'll never
advances and manufacturing 
better with a little ranch know. (P.S.)
techniques daily multiplying 
Dear Accent Love God, 
Please help me before it's too late. I'm dating a tall, beautiful Notre Dame woman. She's intelligent, elegant, funny, and gorgeous. Her only problem is that when she drinks, she gets horny, and I mean HORNY. It's gotten to a point where my roommates don't expect me home for days at a time when they see her chuggin' down those Millers. I haven't been to a class in weeks and I can't even look at the Swimsuit Issue without grimacing in pain. Please save me bt>fore the hot honey with hormones from hell kills me. 
-Exhausted in Morrissey 
Son, you don't have a prob­i lem, you have a dream come 
I 

true. Either keep her from drinking or stop whining and be a man about it. (I.M) 
Dear Accent, I am prespntJy 3,000 
1
miles away from my honey. It's been 41 days since we last hugged and kissPd ea,~h other and I'm afraid he's going to forget mP. I know we are meant for each other but I have heard through the grapevine that another 
woman is after my man. What can I do? -Languishing in London 
The simplest solution. of course, would be a tactful (but anonymous) phonn call to the woman in question; something like, "Stay away from my boyfriend or I will rip off your arms and beat you over the head with them." You'll be surprisnd how quickly she'll pick up on thn hint. If not, would oral surgery for your boyfriend be out of the question? You'll lind having his jaw win•d will be socially limiting for him, as well as painful. Long bPfore he heals, you'll be back in his arms again, hugging at least, if not kissing. (P.S.) 
Dear Accent, 

It se(•ms like all you're doing in this column is poke fun of people with some really serious problems, giving them punchlines rather than help. This kind of behavior seems cruel and irresponsible. 
-Robert D. 

All right, Robert D., Here's a little something for you to cut out and save for future refer­ence: 
Joke (n.): A humorous story or anecdote intended solely for the purposes of amusement, as in "Jinkys Robert. it's just a joke!" 
Now, Bob (may I call you Bob?), perhaps you've read about jokes on the inside of those "Bazooka Joe" wrappers or maybe, Bobby boy, you've even heard someone you know use a joke in everyday life. We're just having a little Valentine's Day fun with you, Bob-urns. These letters are made-up (at least, that's what they told me). Either you're spending this Valentine's Day with someone you care about (and arc thus a little too busy to care about the newspaper, anyway). or you feel a little left out of things, in which case you could probably use a laugh. Either way, Happy Valentines Day. (I.M.) 

~--·-------------------------­

Sports Wednesday 
11 

TOP 25 BASKETBALL POLLS SCOREBOARD 
The Top Twenty Five Women's Top Twenty Ave 
Scoreboerd
Home games in all CAPS Men's tennis vs. The Top Twenty Five teams in the The Top Twenty Five women's 
Hockey (17·11-0)
Associated Press college basketball poll, basketball teams, with first-place votes of
Wednesday COLORADO/IOWA, 9a.m., 5 p.m. 
with first-place votes in parentheses, 60women's coaches in parentheses, total Notre Dame 6-7, Lake Forest 4-3 Men's basketball vs. Men's basketball at Syracuse, 4 records through Feb. 11, total points points based on 25·24-23-22-21-20-19-Wrestling (5-7)MARQUETIE, 7:30 p.m. p.m. based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5­
Purdue 17, Notre Dame 15
Thursday Women's tennis at Texas A & M 16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 4-3-2-1, season records through Feb. 11, 
Women's basketball (1~)
and last week's ranking: points and last week's ranking as compiled
Women's basketball vs. Sunday 
by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia Notre Dame 75, Loyola 63 
DETROIT, 7:30 p.m. Women's tennis at Texas-San 
Inquirer: Men's tennis ( 6-1) 
Men's tennis vs. WAKE FOREST. Antonio Record Pis Plls Record Pis Plls 
Results of the Notre Dame
6:30p.m. Men's tennis vs. BALL STATE, 1 . Kansas (58) 24-1 1,570 2 1. La. Tech (66) 21-0 1,650 1 
Quadrangular:
Friday p.m. 2. Missouri (4) 22-2 1,442 1 2. Nev.-Las Vegas 21-1 1,559 3 
3. Georgetown 19-2 1,423 5 3. Stanford 20-1 1 ,487 2 Notre Dame 9, Western Michigan 0 
Wrestling vs. OHIO, 7:30p.m. Monday 4. Syracuse (1) 18-3 1,379 6 4. Tennessee 19-4 1,462 5 Notre Dame 6, Southern Illinois 0 
Hockey at St. Cloud State, 6:05 No sports scheduled 5. Michigan 18-4 1,249 7 5. Washington 19-2 1 ,354 7 
Notre Dame 6, Bowling Green 0 
p.m. Tuesday 6. Duke 19-4 1,170 4 6. Texas 17-3 1,349 6 
7. UNLV 19-4 1,161 9 Women's tennis (0-1)
7. Georgia 20-3 1 ,266 4
Women's tennis at Texas Women's basketball at St. Louis 
8. Arkansas 20-3 1,147 3 8. Steph. F. Austin 19-2 1,162 9 Northwestern 6, Notre Dame 3 
DEPAUL,

Saturday Men's basketball vs. 9.l.SU 19-4 997 11 17-4 1,033 11
9. N. Carolina St. Women's swimming Hockey at St. Cloud State, 6:05 7:30p.m. 10. Connecticut 20-4 940 8 10. Virginia 21-3 986 12 
Notre Dame won the MCC
11. Oklahoma 17-3 911 13 11. Auburn 18-5 976 13
SPORTS LIST 12. Purdue 17-4 857 10 Championships by tallying 1,078
12. Long Beach St. 17-5 966 8 
13. Georgia Tech 16-4 821 16 13. Purdue 17-4 856 10 points, crushing its nearest 14. LaSalle 19-1 14 16-5 16 St.
801 14.1owa 801 opponent, Louis, who finished 15.111inois 17-5 661 12 15. Northwestern 18-2 786 15 
with 589 points
16. Oregon St. 18-3 557 18 16.Hawaii 19-2 615 17
Shopping 
17. Minnesota 16-5 529 17 Men's swimming 
17. S. Mississippi 20-2 546 18 
18. Louisville 18-5 512 15 18. Louisiana St. 17-5 488 14 Notre Dame captured the MCC
What Americans buy each day 
19. Loyola Marym'nt 19-4 459 20 19. South Carolina 15-6 426 19 Championships with 966 points,20. Arizona 16-4 439 22 
20. Tenn. Tech 17-3 382 20 
378 easily second-place
21. Michigan St. 19-5 23 21. St. Joseph's 18-4 233 21 topping 
1. 
Golf balls 22. Xavier, Ohio 19-2 285 21 Evansville who recorded 524.5

22. Providence 18-4 220 24 

2. 
Sets of golf clubs 23. UCLA 16-5 216 19 23. N. Illinois 19-4 211 23 points 

24. St. John's 19-6 190 24 24. Mississippi 18-5 203-Men's basketball (12-8)

3. 
Pairs of aerobic shoes 25. New Mexico St. 20-2 160 


25. Connecticut 19-3 65­
Notre Dame 63, SMU 49
4. Basketballs 0thers receiving votes: Penn St. 60, 
Houston 93, Notre Dame 82 
Other receiving votes: N. Carolina St. 44, Vanderbilt 44, Arkansas 40, Montana 37,
5. Skateboards 
Indiana 40, Clemson 28, Brigham Young Clemson 33, Missouri 18, Miami, Fla. 14, Baseball (1-0) 
6. Soccer balls 23, E. Tennessee St. 15, North Carolina Maryland 13, Kansas 12, Kansas St. 12, Notre Dame 3, Goshen 0 15, Alabama 9, Texas 8. Houston 7, Holy Florida St. 9, Toledo 9, Holy Cross 8, 
Indoor track
7. Pairs of bowling shoes 
Cross 5, Idaho 4. Kansas St. 4, Southern Rutgers 8, DePaul 7, Kentucky 7, New 
Notre Dame finished fifth in the
8. Hockey sticks U. 3, Ala.-Birmingham 2, Ball St. 2, Mexico St. 7, Oregon 6, Old Dominion 4, California 2, Colorado St. 2, Georgia 2, S. Richmond 4, Dartmouth 3, SW Missouri St. Central Collegiate Championships Mississippi 2, SW Missouri St. 2, Stanford 3, Wyoming 3, Maine 2, Temple 2, Bowling with 50.5 points. Eastern Michigan 
2. Green 1 , Seton Hall 1 . 
won the meet with 141 points Men's fencing (18-0)
BIG TEN STAN DINGS 
Notre Dame 25, Northwestern 2 
Notre Dame 14, Cleveland State 2 
w L Pet w L Pet Northwestern at Illinois Notre Dame 24, Case Western Purdue 9 2 .818 17 4 .809 Thursday's Results 
Conference Overall Wednesday's Games 
Reserve 3 
Michigan St 9 3 .750 20 5 .800 Michigan at Minnesota 
Notre Dame 27, Oberlin 0 
Michigan 8 3 .727 18 4 .818 Ohio State at Wisconsin Minnesota 7 4 .636 16 5 .762 Saturday's Games Notre Dame 22, Ohio State 5 Illinois 7 5 .583 17 5 .773 Iowa at Indiana Women's fencing (14-0) Indiana 5 .455 6 .714 Illinois at Michigan State 
6 15 Notre Dame 11, Northwestern 5 
Ohio State 5 6 .455 11 10 .524 Minnesota at Northwestern 
Notre Dame 16, Cleveland State 0 
Iowa 3 9 .250 11 11 .500 Wisconsin at Purdue
SOURCE: National Sporting Goods Association The Observer/Laura Stanton Wisconsin 3 9 .250 12 12 .500 Sunday's Game Notre Dame 16, Oberlin 0 
N'Western 1 10 . 091 8 13 .381 Michigan at Ohio State Notre Dame 11 , Ohio State 5 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE NHL STATISTICS AUantic Division 
NEW YORK (AP)-The National Hockey 
w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni WALES CONFERENCE New York 32 16 .667-Won 5 21-2 11-14 18-8 Patrick Division
League's scoring and goaltending leaders, Philadelphia 30 18 .625 2 Lost 2 19-4 11-14 25-10 W L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div
through games of Sunday, Feb. 11: Boston 28 18 .609 3 Won 1 18-8 10·10 17-12 Scoring NY Islanders 28 24 6 62 216 208 13-12-4 15-12·2 9-11-!} Washington 18 31 .367 14 112 Lost 1 13-12 5-19 10-19 Gm G A Pis Pim New Jersey 25 25 7 57 211 221 14-12-3 11-13-4 13-7-4 New Jersey 12 35 .255 19112 Lost 10 8-13 4·22 10-18 Lemieux, Pgh 57 44 77 121 78 Pittsburgh 26 27 4 56 241 258 17-13-1 9-14-3 14-12-2 Miami 10 39 .204 22 112 Lost 3 5-18 5-21 6-25 Gretzky, LA 56 29 78 107 40 NY Rangers 23 24 10 56 181 189 13-8-8 10·16-2 7-11-4 Central Division Messier, Edm 58 33 61 94 54 Washington 25 30 4 54 221 218 12-13-2 13·17-2 13-13-0 Detroit 35 14 .714 Won9 21-3 14-11 23·8 77 Philadelphia 22 27 8 52 205 199 12-14-2 10-13-6 9-11-3
Yzerman, Del 56 42 45 87 Hull, StL 57 52 34 86
Chicago 28 19 .596 6 Lost 4 18-2 10-17 14-11 20 Adams Division 
LaFontaine, NYI 58 39 38 x-Boston 5 208 15-10-3 14-9-3
Milwaukee 27 22 .551 8 Lost 1 17-7 10-15 15-13 47 86 34 20 73 164 19-10-2 Indiana 25 23 .521 9112 Won2 16·7 9·16 15-12 Nicholls, NYR 56 33 53 86 80 Buffalo 32 20 6 70 196 174 19-7-2 13-13-4 14-8-2 Atlanta 22 24 .478 11112 Won 1 13-7 9·17 14·15 Kurri, Edm 57 30 47 77 34 Montreal 30 22 6 66 190 166 20-8-3 10-14-3 13-8-1 Cleveland 21 25 .457 12112 Won 1 13-10 8-15 14-16 Coffey, Pgh 57 21 55 76 73 Hartford 26 25 6 58 195 191 11-14-4 15-11-2 8-10-2 Orlando 14 33 .298 20 Won 1 10-14 4-19 9-22 Robitaille, LA 56 39 36 75 30 Quebec 9 41 6 24 172 283 5-18-5 4-23-1 3-17-2 
Turgeon, Buf 58 26 48 74 20 
Francis, Hart 57 22 51 73 40 Midwest Division Norris Division 
WESTEoRN CONFERENCE CAMPBELL~ONFERENCE
Oates, StL 57 15 57 72 18 Neely, Bos 57 41 30 71 79
w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni W L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div Bellows, Min 59 37 32 69 42
Utah 33 14 .702 Won2 22-3 11-11 21-6 Chicago 30 21 4 64 229 210 18-8-1 12-13-3 9-10-1 San Antonio 32 14 .696 112 Lost 1 21-2 11-12 20-6 150 Toronto 30 26 2 62 260 253 20-8-1 10-18-1 15-9-1
Tocchet, Pha 52 29 40 69 Nieuwendyk, Cal 58 31 37 68 32
Denver 26 20 .565 6112 Won 1 18-6 8-14 14-15 St. Louis 27 22 8 62 203 187 15-9-4 12-13-4 10-12-1 Dallas 26 22 .542 7112 Won2 18-8 8-14 17-19 Minnesota 25 31 3 53 202 223 20-8-1 5-23-2 12-12-1
Leeman, Tor 57 36 31 67 42 Houston 22 25 .468 11 Lost 1 18-5 4-20 14-18 GOAL TENDING Detroit 20 30 7 47 207 229 14-12-3 6-18-4 9-12-2 Minnesota 10 36 .217 22112 Lost 3 8-16 2-20 5-22 (Empty-net goals in parentheses) Smythe Division Charlotte 8 37 .178 24 Lost 10 7-17 1-20 5-24 Edmonton 28 19 11 67 231 200 17-7-5 11-12-6 14-6-3
NP GA so A~
Pacific Division Lemelin 1578 69 1 2.62 Calgary 27 18 13 67 240 196 17-5-5 10-13-8 9-11-3 
L.A. Lakers 35 11 .761 Won4 22-2 13-9 20-6 Winnipeg 26 24 7 59 212 214 15-9-4 11-15-3 11-8-2
Moog 1990 93 3 2.80 
Portland 33 13 .717 2 Lost 1 23-3 10-10 23-9 164 Los Angeles 24 27 6 54 247 240 14-13-2 10-14-4 10-8-5
Boston (2) 3576 4 2.75
Phoenix 28 17 .622 6112 Won 1 19-5 9-12 20·10 Vancouver 18 32 9 45 175 219 10-12-7 8-20-2 3-14-5
Roy 2075 85 3 2.46 Seattle 22 23 .489 12112 Lost 1 17-6 5-17 11-14 Hayward 1424 76 1 3.20 x-clinched playoff spot Golden State 23 24 .489 12112 Lost 1 18-5 5-19 15-14 
Racicot 13 3 0 13.85 Monday's Games Wednesday's Games 
L.A. Clippers 21 26 .447 14 1/2 Won 1 14-7 7-19 11-17 Montreal (2) 3521 166 4 2.83 Toronto 5, Los Angeles 3 Hartford at Toronto, 7:30p.m. 
Sacramento 12 34 .261 23 Lost 5 10-14 2-20 7-23 Puppa 2436 111 0 2.73 Detroit 1, New Jersey 1 , tie Vancouver at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
Wednesday's Games Denver at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Malarchuk 1066 60 0 3.38 Tuesday's Games Pittsburgh at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Boston at San Antonio. 8:30p.m. Buffalo (3) 3514 174 0 2.97 Vancouver at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Los Angeles at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Ch1cago at Orlando. 7:30 p.m. Utah at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Joseph 291 13 0 2.68 Calgary at New York Islanders. 7:35p.m. Boston at Winnipeg, 8:30p.m. Indiana at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Portland at Los Angeles Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Millen 1245 61 1 2.94 New York Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Washington at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Charlotte at Minnesota. 8 p.m. 
-

:························································
e STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD: : e "WHEN HARRY MET SALLY'' • : tonight and tomorrow night in CaiTOIIAuditorium : : $1.00 admission at 9:00 and 11:15 : 
• Reminder: Elections begin this Sunday-come meet e : the candidates on February 19 in Haggar : e watch for signs-it's your Democratic duty to vote e 
e Coming soon: "Parenthood", Sophomore Parents Weekend, e : WELLNESSMC, and much more!!! : 
e 'HAPPY VAlENnNe·s DAY"' e 


page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
Morrissey and Sorin to face off in IH basketball playoffs 
His team returns the starting Morrissey A-1 's running game, proved offensively and I feel and finish out the season versus
By RICHARD MATHURIN 

five from last year's champi-but Zidar does not plan on us­good about our team, better Off-campus on Thursday.
Sports Writer 

onship team, which includes ing that strategy. than I expected." "We're very happy because 
The most anticipated match­Derek Johnson, Tom Veltz, "We definitely won't stall, but our goal at the beginning of the up of the men's Interhall Kevin Kade. Rod Culver and just play hard man to man de­A team that could surprise season was to win our division basketball season takes place Keyes. Unfortunately, Culver fense," predicted Zidar. "We many in the playoffs is Fisher. and make the playoffs." com­on Thursday night as the only will miss the contest due to realize that the higher the score They were runner-ups to mented Stanford captain Hay two undefeated teams from the knee surgery. gets, the less of a chance we Morrissey last year and return Flannery. ACC conference, Morrissey A-1 have, though." four of the five players from Flannery is worried about and Sorin, face each other. Sorin Captain Tom Zidar that team. Captain Todd Off-campus, even though his Both teams sport 5-0 records does not feel sorry for his op­Sorin will look to get the ball Wagenblast feels that team defeated Zahm 69-50 on and this game will decide the ponents. inside to freshman Eric Jones if Thursday's game against Sunday. number one seed in the upcom­"Dorsey Levins will fill in for they hope to pull off the upset. Alumni will be crucial. ing playoffs. Rod Culver and Morrissey is al­In the Big 10 conference, "We've worked hard, and 
ready very talented," said Morrissey A-2 (6-1) has "If we can play well in that after defeating Zahm to let Morrissey A-1, the defending Zidar. wrapped up the division, despite game, it could be a springboard ourselves down against Off­champions, have blitzed "I feel that this is a David losing to Pangborn in overtime into the playoffs," said campus would be cheating our­
ICEBERG ~aAJES 

9:00 p.m. 
A debate on ROTC's Compatibility with Notre Dame's Christian Character will be held at a dorm near you. 
Get out and support your team. 
ROUND THREE 

-
~ ilam LQQa1iQn 
Aff Walsh at Walsh All Cavanaugh at Cavanaugh 
Neg Off-Campus I Neg Stanford 
Aff Siegfried at Holy Cross All St. Edwards at St. Edwards 
Neg Holy Cross Neg Grace I 
All Sorin atAICJmni 
Aff Flanner I at Morrissey Neg Alumni 
Neg Morrissey All Keenan at Keenan 
Aff Pasquerilla West at Pasquerilla West Neg Grace II 
Neg Zahm Aff 011-CarllXJS II at Pasq..rertlla East 
Aff Ranner II at Badin 
Neg Pasquerilla East 

Neg Badin All Dillon al Breen-Phlllips 
Aff Farley a! Farley
UDENT Neg Breen-PhiiUps 
Neg Carroll Aff Fllher allewls 
Aft Pangborn at LyonsNeg Lewis Neg Lyons 
at Howard
19H~~ 

through their schedule, im­versus Goliath matchup, " con­on Sunday night. They defeated pressing all who have faced tinued Zidar, "we'll just play rival Fisher (5-1) earlier in the them. Captain Kevin Keyes at­with intensity and emotion and year. tributes his team's success to feel the game out." "our fast break offense where Many teams have attempted "We've been a surprise to ev­we run a lot and hit the to slow down the pace of the eryone," said Morrissey A-2 
boards." game considerably to combat Captain Ed Larkin. "We've im-
IH women head into post-season 
ByRICHKURZ BTTCG, accepted a forfeit playoffs. 
Sports Writer 

from Lyons, and Siegfried's The A league games will tough defense held Breen­take place next Monday If it's the middle of Phillips to 13 points as night, Feb. 19, in Gym 4. PE February, then it must be Siegfried raised its record to will square off with Siegfried playoff time for Women's 5-1 with a 28-13 victory. at 7:00, while Lewis and BP Interhall Basketball. Regular Meanwhile, this past will meet in the second game, 
season play wound down last Sunday saw a full load of scheduled to tip-off at 8:00. night as several teams made action. In Al games, BP All four teams head into the their final appearances of defeated PW 39-24 to ensure playoffs with identical 5-1 the year and the playoff themselves of a playoff spot, records. schedule was finalized. while Badin forfeited their "I would have to make 
Siegfried, the lone playoff game to Lyons. In the A2 Lewis the favorite," said PE team in action last night, division, Knott took away a coach Ray Flannery, citing tuned up for the playoffs 30-27 win from their talent and a tradition of with a 58-14 demolishing of meeting with Howard, and winning as Lewis's 
Badin while Pasquerilla West PE clinched a playoff spot as strengths. "We just try to notched a 39-32 victory over they handed Lewis their first work hard." Lyons in A 1 play. Howard loss, 38-29. B league playoff games knocked off Walsh 39-32, The top two teams from start tomorrow night in Gym 
and Lewis took a forfeit win each of the A divisions 2 with first-place Siegfried from Knott in A2 action. advance to post-season play, facing BP at 7:00, and In B league games, the and all four teams in the B second-place BTTCG taking graduate student team, league were entered in the on Lyons at 8:00. 
Wagenblast. selves," said Flannery. 
In the Big Sky conference, Aftnr Thursday's games, the Stanford has clinched the divi­playoff seeds will be derided sion with a perfect 6-0 record. with thn top two teams from They defeated closest rival each division making the play­Grace (6-l) earlier this season offs. 
Women's team beats Butler to remain unbeaten in MCC 
Special to The Observer ready to knock us off since we were their only loss in the 
Krissi Davis scored 17 points MCC." and pulled down a game-high Margaret Nowlin added 15 seven rebounds in her points for the Irish on a perfect Indianapolis homecoming shooting day, hitting 6-of-6 Tuesday to lead the Notre from the field and 3-of-3 from Dame women's basketball team the line. past Butler 59-46, keeping the Irish undefeated in the Midwest The Irish, who led just 28-26 Collegiate Conference. at halftime, improved to 11-0 in 
Davis, a 5-foot-9 junior, hails conference play and 16-6 over­from Noblesville, a suburb all. Notre Dame has won five north of Indianapolis. Her ef­straight games and has a 16­fort helped lead the Irish past a game MCC winning streak dat­tough Butler team which has ing back to last year. lost only two conference games this season, both to Notre Butler (15-6 overall, 9-2 in Dame. MCC) was led by Shelley Hoby 
"It was probably our toughest and her game-high 18 points. conference game of the year," Roby, a 5-foot-11 senior, Davis said. "They definitely scored the Bulldogs' first 12 
------------~----------------~-------------------------------~------------------------~----------..................... 
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Vincent hopes to prevent lockout Douglas is champion,
NEW YORK (AP) is going to go yet." ture. Commissioner Fay Vincent gave He tempered his remarks by The sources, who asked not the union a new management adding, "I do not want to sug­to be identified, also suggested 
Tyson seeks rematch proposal Tuesday at the stalled gest that this has been some a committee on revenue sharing baseball labor talks, and the sort of breakthrough that will could be part of the proposal. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Now, have to do is get a rematch. union will consider it on lead to a conclusion." "The mere fact that we're at 
the boxing world agrees: As you know, the catching Wednesday -one day before Though neither side would least dealing with a framework 
Buster Douglas is comes before the hanging." spring training was to begin. describe Vincent's suggestion, for discussing these issues is a 
heavyweight champion. And King said he was Management negotiator two sources with knowledge of little ahead of where we were 
it almost agrees: His first negotiating with Chuck O'Connor described management's thinking said last week," Fehr said. 
challenger will be Mike representatives of Douglas Vincent's concepts as they believed it involved negoti­For months, management has 
Tyson. and Holyfield to work out an "substantive and procedural." ating a new agreement along been insisting on a proposal in 
The final barrier to agreement. Union head Donald Fehr said the framework of the one that which players would get 48 
Douglas-Tyson II was Tyson, who appeared with cautiously: "There was a series expired Dec. 31, provided that percent of the revenue from 
breached Tuesday when King at the news conference, of suggestions made. I don't the union made a commitment ticket sales and broadcast con­
Evander Holyfield's man­said his loss was "a know where, if anywhere, this to revenue sharing in the fu-tracts. 
ager, Ken Sanders, said in temporary, minor setback. I ­
Atlanta that his boxer don't take it to heart. I'll be 
under McCann. Fame with his former coach probably would step aside to the champion again. I'm still 
Items 
After leading Winona State to Feb. 29 at Fort Hayes, Kan. 
allow the rematch. one of the best fighters in a third-place finish in the NAIA ••• 
Billionaire developer the world and when the
continued from page 16 
Donald Trump says rematch comes I'll prove it." Notre Dame wrestling coach McCann was selected as NAIA Hall sponsored a celebrity auc­
championships in 1970, St. Edward's Hall and Farley 
Douglas-Tyson II will be Holyfield, as the No. 1­Fran McCann will be inducted coach of the year. He earned tion Tuesday night at 
June 18 in Atlantic City, ranked contender, is the into the NAIA Hall of Fame similar honors from the Theodore's, allowing students 
although neither Douglas WBC's and WBA's next month in honor of his Northern Intercollegiate to bid for the opportunity to 
nor Tyson have signed mandatory challenger, but it nine years spent coaching Conference twice. "own" some Notre Dame sports 
contracts. looks like he'II wait for Winona (Minn.) State. While tallying a 50-20-2 heroes for a few hours. 
In fact, Douglas only Tyson-Douglas II, then fight McCann, whose lifetime record, McCann produced 14 For what it's worth, three 
learned hours earlier that he the winner. record is 156-99-2, coached NAIA All-Americans at Winona Irish track stars went for $37. 
was undisputed champion "We've been approached to Winona State from 1969 to State, and three of those while you needed just $25 (less 
when the World Boxing make a deal, by Don King, to 1978 and his Warrior teams wrestlers earned the same dis­than half the price of season 
Association became the last step aside and make way for finished in the NAIA Top 20 six tinction from the NCAA. tickets) to buy the majority of 
of the sport's three major the rematch," Sanders, said. of those seasons. Winona State One of the McCann-coached the men's basketball team. The 
governing bodies to "We're waiting for the also won two Northern All-Americans, Jim Panniehill, female contingent of the Irish 
recognize his lOth-round contract from him. If it's Intercollegiate championships will be inducted into the Hall of cheerleading squad took in 
knockout of Tyson on what they said it would be, $110. 
Sunday in Tokyo. we probably would do it." 
"We don't have a rematch 
now," Don King, Tyson's Sanders said Holyfield 
promoter and advisor, said would fight a tuneup on the
The 
Tuesday at a news undercard, then fight the
Exect1tive Management 
conference. "We're trying to Tyson-Douglas winner in
Observer 
get one. The first thing we September or October.
Associates 

Campus Recruiting Information Night 
Thursday Feb. 15 7:30pm CSC 
Internship and Etnploytnent in H un1an Services Con1panies 
Accounting  Human Resources  
Programming  Recreation  
Psychology  Hispanic Services  
and more  


GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 

AITENTION STUDENTS 
Off Campus Sip -ups: February 12 -16ln North and South Dining Halls during lunch. February 12-March 5 at Lafortune lnfonnation desk. On Campus Sl2n -ups: Now -March 5. Look for posters In respective dorms. 
~------------T------------~
: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : "Christmas in April1990" will take place on April 7, in the Washngton Street neighborhod.
: $899 Sa;l~~er : 99¢ : 
This project needs your support!
I For I I 
QUESTIONS??? Please call:
I Pick any lWO Gourmel Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I 1 two Garden _Salads, plus y~ur choice of I receive a second one of the I Karen Croteau X1367 
Lora Mangan X 1314 
French Fnes or Omon Rmgs and 2 1 · f 99' 1
I 
Mmi-Sundaes. same SIZe or Isabel Navarrete X1314 Bob Scheibel X2544 
·L--~~~8!.~~~2.--l---~~~-=~~~--J 
.---~~~~~--.-~--------------------------~----------------------------~------~------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer 
Missouri knocks off No.1 Kansas in quest to regain top spot in polls 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP) -Dean Smith's staff in the game. Tuesday night. Anthony Peeler scored 22 After Scott gave Georgia Tech 
Providence 94,
points, including the basket a 79-76 lead, Maryland's Tony that gave Missouri the lead for Georgetown 90 Massenburg made two free good, and the second-ranked throws with 1:31 left to play. Tigers beat No. 1 Kansas for PROVIDENCE, R.I. Tech freshman Kenny Anderson the second time this season, 77-Providence made a season-high completed the scoring when he 71, on Tuesday night. 12 3-point shots and Carlton hit the first of two free throws 
The Tigers (23-2, 9-1) beat Screen led the Friars with 29 with 54 seconds left. the Jayhawks (24-2, 7 -2) 95-87 points as they upset No. 3 on Jan. 20 and their second win Georgetown 94-90 Tuesday Connecticut 80, over Kansas keeps them atop night. 
Pittsburgh 77
the Big Eight standings as well. The Friars beat the Hoyas 
Missouri's last victory was without junior guard Eric PITTSBURGH -Nadav also over a top-ranked Kansas Murdock, their leading scorer, Henefeld scored 27 points, in­team. The Tigers were ranked who complained of fatigue be­cluding four free throws in the fourth that week and moved to fore the game and was taken to final 40 seconds, as No. 10 the top spot with the win. They a hospital for observation. Connecticut held off Pittsburgh held No. 1 for three weeks until 80-77 Tuesday night to tie
Georgia Tech 80,
losing last Thursday at Kansas Georgetown for the Big East State. Conference lead. 
Maryland 78 
This was the first matchup of Henefeld, a 6-foot-7 fresh­Nos. 1-2 since top-ranked ATLANTA -Dennis Scott man, scored 19 second-half North Carolina beat Georgia scored 36 points, including a points after Chris Smith scored Tech 78-77 on Feb. 4, 1986, tie-breaking 3-pointer, as No. 18 of his 22 points in the first and that was also a road vic­13 Georgia Tech edged half for the Huskies (21-4), tory. Kansas coach Roy Maryland 80-7 8 in an Atlantic who won for the 11th time in Williams was a member of Coast Conference game 12 games. 

Don't miss: Thursday Grad Lunch 
Friday Lunch noon-2 
Satu amaican" 
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ski Club will meet to discuss the Winter Park spring break trip at 8 p.m. Thursday in 118 Nieuwland Science. Final payments, room selections and insurance forms will be 
taken  at  the  meeting.  Call  x3662  or  x2962  for  more  
information.  
WVFI-AM  640 will  air  the  Notre  Dame-Marquette  

basketball game tonight at 7:30 p.m. Join Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormick for all of the action. 
Cycling Club is forming a race team to compete in the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Association. Men. women and graduate students are welcome. No experience is necessary. Call 288-4409 or x3472 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will have a pregame meeting tonight in 152 Alumni. 
Entry deadlines for noor hockey and racquetball are today. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run morn than two times. 
Write your name on a page of history. The Observer 
Be a part ofit! 
News Sports
ViewpointAccent Business 
Call 239-5303. 


Rediscover 
1 
,. 1es_C] 

The Carriage House 
a touch of class 
" 
OPEN TUESDAY through SATURDAY 219-272-9220 RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED 
24460 Adams Rd South Bend, Indiana 
• rrTT~~~~rr77~~~rrrrTT~~~rrrr~
...------------------------------~ 
The MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL is looking for new members to become part of a very exciting and enhancing experience. If you are concerned with the growth of cultural awareness on the Notre Dame campus then maybe you should get involved. 

Applications are available NOW in the Student Activities Office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune until February 21. Interviews will take place 
February 26 -March 2. 
If you have any questions regarding the specifics please feel free to contact Teresa Herman 234-7274 or Mary Feliz 283-1341. 




-~----------~--------------------~-----~-------~~-----------~-,----------, 
Wednesday, February ~ 4, ~ 990 The Observer page 15 
CAMIPUS CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
CAN l ~~C)t\\£~ 
IS ~t.?i' OK, .lUST 10 M\~\JTE'S.' TI-l£~ l'll. Q:l STRAIGI-U m 
SED! H'l~ ~\~UTES. ~-~:---''-JUST ~W£. l>\1~\lit.S I~~ 
le()l(, l.'ll ~IJSI W~IC\-\ f>.. l=t.W MORt C~t.RC\fi.I.C:., 
CYt::? sa, 1-1£R£s 
!>\~ ~~'lOR\Tf 
G\JM CCII.M£II.CI A l ! 


"This is no use, Wanda. It's like they say-we just don't have lips." 

P'/H///A7HHA7H//H/H///A7H.Hb'//.Hb'H///H/HH/H////H/H/A7//////Hb7/HA7/H/H/H/HH/A7/H/HHH/H/HH/H/H.Hb'H/HH/H//HA7A7AW'UAV/.Hb'/,Qb'AWiW'H~ 
~ I 
~ ~ ~ U)J J]3 Executive Council Positions for 1990-91 I ~ 
~ 0 i 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Board Manager ~ 
~ Applications for: ~ 
~ Director of Programming Now available at the ~ 
D • ,.t: R l • Secretary's Desk 1 ~ I! trector OJ e attons 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ 
~ Director of Marketing ~ ~ Controller Due Februacy 22, 1990 ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ STUDENT UNION BOARD ~ 
~ ~ 
b--u//.Hb'/.Hb'.Hb'///A7//HAV'HH/A7A7AWUAVHA7/~/AVb"/HAV'HAYHHA7HHHHHH'HHA7A7A7H.Hb'AVb"/AVb"/~_A 
Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
12:10-1:00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholic Anonymous. Holy Cross House. 
7:30 p.m.Basketball. ND vs. Marquette. JACC arena. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

3:15 p.m."A Free Boundary Problem for a Hamilton­Jacobi Equation Arising in Ions Etching," Professor Bei Hu, University of Minnesota. Room 225 Computer-Math Building, Coffee room 201 at 2:45. Sponsored by Dept. of Mathematics. 
4:20 p.m."Theory of Large Amplitude Collective Motion with Applications to Chemistry and Nuclear Physics," Prof. Abraham Klein, University of Pennsylvania. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Building. Coffee at 3:45, room 
284. Sponsored by Dept. of Physics. 
4:30 p.m."Applications of IK-theory in Galois Theory," Bill Jacob, University of California. Second Floor Computer-Math Building. Coffee at 4:00. Sponsored by Kenna Lectures in Mathematics. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cajun Chicken Breast Ham & Broccoli Rolls Rotellini wNegetables 
Knockwurst on Roll 

ACROSS 31 Avian perch 58 Artifice 
1 Marten's fur 32 Delight 59 Moved gradually &Cudgel 35 Carouse 60 Other 10 Neat 39 Fla.'s-Largo 
61 Long-billed bird 14 Swiftly, to a poet 40 Adlai's running 
62 Spacious

15 Singer Coolidge mate: 1956 16 Decorate anew 41 Sacrament 11 Make merry 42Admitted DOWN 20 Native 
43 Kind of car or 1 "The Square 21 Mollifies game Egg" author 
22 Bridge ace 45 Run at full speed 2 Ugandan exile Culbertson 
47 Range of vision 3 Famed 23 Hit hard organist­
48 Wall decoration 
25 Reserved; composer retiring 
49 Deter from doing 
4 Comparable to 29 Frolics 54 Go on a spree 
5 Acclimates 30 Incite 57 Stolen goods 
6 Close friend 7 Fuzz aWestern

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Amerind 9 Kind of relief 
~.:+-;;;+::-~ 10 Gives medical aid to 
~:::+::+--+=-! 11 Singer Della 12 Dawdled 13 Sphagnum, e.g. 
~,...+.,,.-~ 18 Animal's skin 
-~-1-:::-'1-=+..,.. .;.;.,1-;4.:+.;~~ 19 Succored 
23 Writer Pasternak 24 Writer Ludwig 25 Mummer's 
cover-up 

~~:+.:~ 26 A double-reed -.=:.:..a..::.J..;.;.J 21 Moist 
1-n-+--+-+----lf-­
28 D.D.E.'s command 29 Tied the knot 
again 31 Daisylike flower 32 Lockup 33 Lyricist Harbach 34 North Sea 
feeder 36 Most recent 37 Anglo-Saxon 
laborer 38 Bruin great 42 Mandarin or 
Temple 43 Jalapa coin 44 Rebuttal 45 Swimmer's 

stroke 46 Costa Rican statesman 47 Predatory birds 
48 Cathedral's projection 49An Arnaz 50 Cause the ruin of 51 Jason's ship 52 Consider 53 Small whirlpool 55 Prefix with corn or pod 56 Focal point 


Sports
page 16 Wednesday, February 14, 1990 
Irish host rival Marquette tonight 
Notre Dame looks to avenge trouncing earlier this year 
By GREG GUFFEY Irish play five games at home -Powell averages 16.8 points Assistant Sports Editor Marquette, De Paul, Georgia and 8.0 rebounds per game. A big smile appeared when Tech, Missouri and KHntucky -Other Warrior starters in dou­someone asked Notre Dame and three contests on the road ble ligures include senior for­men's basketball coach Digger -Syracuse, Dayton and De ward Tyrone Baldwin at 13.0 Phelps the biggest difference Paul. points and junior guard Mark between now and when the "I just think we've got to beat Anglavar at 10.5. Junior center Irish played Marquette in somebody good for our own Rod Grosse (2.6 ppg, 4.6 rpg) December. credibility and confidence," rounds out the starting lineup. 
"This time we'll have Phelps said. "You have to look LaPhonso Ellis," he said. for the positives and there are For the Irish, Keith Robinson 
Without Ellis in December, a lot of positives on this team. and Fredrick join Ellis in double Notre Dame dropped an 80-68 When thfly click in, good things figures at 14.8 and 13.3 points decision to the Warriors in are going to happen." per game. Robinson also pulls Milwaukee. That loss was the Trevor Powell sparked the down 7.0 boards per contest. third conseeutive at the time Warriors in December with 25 for the Irish and lowered their points and nine rebounds, while Sophomore guard Elmer overall record to 1-3. Tony Smith chipped in 20 Bennett has seen increased 
Ellis, after missing the lirst points. That was the first playing time in recent games six games beeause of academic Marquettfl win over the Irish in for the Irish. He has boosted ineligibility, has been Notre the last 13 games. his average to 9.3 points per Dame's leading scorer and re­The Warriors bolted to a 32-game and has hit double ligures 
bound11r with 16.2 points and 22 lead early, but the Irish bat­in five of his last six games. He 
12.4 rebounds per game. lie is tled back to trail just 36-32 at played 32 minutes against the hitting 55 pereent of his shots halftime. Marquette sealed the Warriors in December and from the linld. game at the free-throw line, scored 14 points. 
l~llis and the Irish face a hitting a total of 33-of-37 free must-win situation at home throws, 9-of-10 in the last two NOTES -Tonight's game will following a 1-2 roadtrip that minutes. Joe fredrick led the be televised by Sportschannel, included losses to Duke and Irish with 19 points. while Saturday's contest with llouston. At 12-8, Notre Dame "The preparation is more in­Houston was shown nationally needs a strong finish to impress tense because they beat you al­on CBS...Notre Dame leads the the NCAA Tournament selection ready," Phelps said. series with the Warriors 68-26. com m i ltefl. Smith, a senior guard, is the ..The Irish have won the last 
A strong finish will mean leading Marquette scorer at six games between the teams b11ating some good teams. The 22.1 points per game, while played at the Joyce ACC. 


Zadra takes aggressive approach as catalyst for ND scoring attack 
By KEN TYSIAC "Lou's strtmgths are working Sports Writer hard to fight for the puck and lind position," Irish Coach Hie 
Notre Dame left wing Lou Schafer said after Zadra Zadra's bump and grind per­scored two goals on Friday formance this past weekend night. "I guess that paid hand­against Lake Forest perfectly somely for him tonight. lin was illustrated his value on the Irish where he was supposed to b1~ hockey team to their fans. on the goals." 
Zadra scored three crucial ''I'm playing with two excnl­goals in leading the Irish to a lent players, Timmy Kuehl and two-game sweep of the Dave Bankoske," says Zadra. Foresters which improved their "They're both sensational and record to 17-11. Zadra's they're easy to work with. My shorthanded goal at Lake rule basically is to go into the Forest on Saturday night gave corners and just work as hard the Irish a two-goal lead and as I can to gel the puck out bn­helped stave off a Forester eause once you put it on their rally aided by questionable stkks they ean find the net, no penalties. problem." 
It was a typical Zadra goal. Zadra has had some success 
"We were forechecking hard linding the net himself this sea­and the guy tried to pass," says The absence of finesse is not son. lie is now third on th11 Zadra. "It (the puck) bounced surprising. Zadra is not a fi­Notre Dame scoring chart with 
-

off his stick and was rolling in nesse player. lie delights, 13 goals and 18 assists for :~ 1 the corner. (Dave Bankoske) rather, in digging the puck out points. When he does seore, TheOlseNerI Rle Photo went in there and took the de­of the corners and throwing it Zadra, a crowd favorite, is Sophomore Lou Zadra has been a big factor in the Notre Dame hockey fenseman's body out and I out to talented linemates Tim 
see Zadra I page 14 
team's recent wins. KenTysiac features Zadra at right. came in and picked up the puck. Kuehl and Dave Bankoske. 
Schafer's troops slowly gain ground in rebuilding program 
It had been feast or famine change in schedule strength and experience. ships, and we played an extremely good game to for the Notre Dame hockey "We're a better hockey team than we were last beat them," commented Schafer. team during the first two season, and our schedule is better suited to what we Plans for next season include four games with Air are as a hockey program," said Schafer. Force and a trip to Alaska to face Alaska­
years of Hie Schafer's tenure 

as head coach. Last year's schedule included teams like Boston Anchorage, the team Schafer coached before arriv­Schafer inherited a veteran College, 111inois-Chicago, Western Michigan, Alaska­ing at Notre Dame. The Irish also will take a trip Anchorage and Michigan. That proved too drastic a East that includes games with Princeton, Army, New
team and a weak schedule in the 1987-88 season, and the change for a young team that had spent the previous Hampshire and Boston College. Irish posted a 27-4-2 record, season beating up on the Daytons and Villanovas of One of the Irish coaching staff's top priorities has 
to be finding a goaltender to replace senior Lance
the best in their history. The the world. following season, a much "We had three scholarships, and we played almost Madson, who has started all but one of Notre younger team attempted to half our schedule against fully-funded Division I Dame's 66 games in the last two seasons and has handle a much more difficult teams," explained Schafer. "That was my mistake." played in 95 of the 99 Irish games since Schafer's sehedule, and the Irish fell to This season's schedule has been much more real­hiring. 10-26-2. istic. Notre Dame did make a holiday trip to "We really are an upstart hockey program," said In two seasons, Schafer's teams had set a pair of Milwaukee for games against Wisconsin and Schafer. "It was great for us to have a sound goal­records: most wins in a season during the 1986-87 Minnesota-Duluth, but the Irish no longer are facing tender who gave us at least a chance in many campaign, and most losses in a season one year nationally-ranked teams on a consistent basis. games. We'll miss his presence, but that's the nature later. That doesn't mean the schedule has not been of college sports. It's quite a feat to play as many As Schafer's third season winds down, things are challenging. A home win against St. Cloud State, a games as he has the last three years, but he seems 
much more normal for the Irish, who hold a re­team the Irish face this weekend, has been one of to thrive on it." spectable 17-11 record with six games left to play. the highlights of Schafer's time at Notre Dame. ••• Schafer attributes the team's improvement to a "That's a team fully funded, that has 20 scholar-see Items I page 13 









