
VOL. XXIII NO. 4 THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Iraq leader denies reports of secret deal 
Saddam Hussein says he will not be an easy target declares Kuwait to be a province of Iraq 



PARIS (AP) -Saddam Hus­sein said in an interview Wednesday that he is constantly moving so he won't provide an easy target for a possible U.S. air attack. 
Saddam spoke in separate in­terviews with French television and CBS, his first to Western reporters since the Iraqi presi­dent sent his forces to invade Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
In an hour long interview with CBS anchor Dan Rather taped in Baghdad on Wednes­day, the Iraqi leader declared flatly. "Kuwait is part of Iraq. 
We have said this, and the legislative bodies in Iraq have issued a clear decree saying that Kuwait is an Iraqi province," he said. 
Saddam also denied that he is making any secret proposals to pull out of Kuwait. 
A White House official con­firmed Wednesday that the Bush administration received a secret Iraqi offer to free all captives and withdraw from Kuwait if certain conditions were met. 
The conditions were that the international trade embargo against Iraq be lifted and Baghdad be granted access to the Persian Gulf and sole con­trol of an oil field that dips into Kuwait, according to the New York area newspaper Newsday. 
The White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the offer was rejected. 
In his comments for French television, Saddam asserted once again the United States cannot defeat Iraq, adding "I 
BONN, West Germany (AP)­Chancellor Helmut Kohl's gov­ernment said Wednesday the two Germanys will likely sign within two days a treaty providing the formal basis for unification, although 
differences  remain  over  
abortion.  
In  East  Germany,  an  esti­ 

mated 90,000 public employees in at least 20 cities held a sec­ond day of warning strikes over fears their jobs will be endan­gered by unification with West Germany. 
About 10,000 nurses, garbage men, bus drivers and others stopped working for two hours in East Berlin. 
Strikes of up to two hours were also reported in Erfurt, Potsdam, Leipzig, Gera and several other cities. Fire trucks and garbage trucks blocked several streets, and the airport capital, Interior Minister Wolf­gang Schaeuble said a treaty to serve as the document formally merging the nations on Oct. 3 and meshing their laws is near approval. 
in  Leipzig  was  temporarily  
closed.  
In  Bonn,  West  Germany's  

Closed-door talks among government and opposition of­ficials continued into the night in an effort to clear up the re­maining difficulties. But Schaeuble said no difficulties were expected in getting the approval of all sides. 
Parties within Kohl's coali­tion had already signaled they would yield to the opposition Social Democrats' insistence no West German women be prose­cuted for seeking abortions in East Germany after unity. 
The left-of-center Social Democrats had threatened to 
States "is not the angel of and sent some of them to death." strategic installations to deter 
That interview was conducted any U.S. attack, announced in Baghdad on Tuesday by Tuesday that women and chil­French anchorman Patrick dren could leave. The French ·Poivre d'Arvor of station TFl. interview was taped that day 
The first part of the two-hour before the announcement. session, with excerpts broad­Saddam spoke with an air of cast on the evening news, took confidence, despite the huge place in .front of a group of buildup of U.S., European, Western hostages, Poivre Arab and other forces in the d'Arvor said later. He objected region to counter Iraq. when the Iraqis proposed in­"A victory for the United cluding the hostages in the ses­States is not realistic," Sad dam sion, and it was then continued said. He said America would in private as the two men have to defeat the Iraqi army, strolled together. the Iraqi economy and "defeat 
Poivre d'Arvor said the film the Iraqi regime." was confiscated and returned In his CBS interview, Sad dam eight hours later with a ques­renewed Iraq's argument that tion on Western h.ostages the foreigners held by Iraq deleted. should not be called hostages. 
Saddam, who has barred Westerners from leaving Iraq see SADDAM I page 5 
Malloy travels to Helsinki, California during summer 
By KEVALEEN RYAN dressed such topics as the fu­News Writer ture of higher education, the 
various avenues of student and 
faculty exchange programs, the 
While some spent their sum­impat:t of science and technol­mer months working on their ogy, current economic and po­tans, University business took litical realities and their pre­President Edward Malloy on sumed effects on the universi­excursions around the globe. ties and other relevant subjects. For a week in August, Malloy, However, according to Mal­along with university presidents loy, it was the informal ses­from 120 other countries, at­sions. "over coffee or lunch tended the Ninth General Con­breaks," that generated a more ference of the International As­interesting and profitable ex­sociation of Universities in change. The actual address to Helsinki, Finland. the mass audience tended to be 
The purpose of this council, more philosophical and eso­according to Dennis Moore, as­teric, rather than practical, sociate director of Public Rela­said 1\loore. tions and Information, was to "It is clear that Notre Dame bring administrators together enjoys a good reputation inter­and provide them with the op­nationally. This gives us a good portunity for a unique ex­opportunity to enhance our change. presence abroad and to foster 
The conference consisted of international cooperation and approximately 20 different exchange in the future," said speakers, including officials Malloy. from UNESCO (a United Na­tions organization), who ad-see MONK/ page 7 
Saddam Hussein 
do not beg before anyone." 
The Iraqi president said he is not an easy target because he does not remain in one place "to invite being bombed." He said defiantly that the United 


veto the treaty over that issue. 
But late Wednesday another disagreement arose in the abortion dispute -how long after unity the two Germanys would keep their widely differ­ing abortion laws. 
East Germany's abortion law is far more permissive than West Germany's. 
The major political parties had already agreed the two Germanys should keep their re­spective abortion laws for an interim two-year period until an all-German parliament can choose abortion statutes for a united Germany. 
But the Social Democrats in­sisted Wednesday night that there should be a three-year ex­tension if the all-German par­liament fails to agree on a new abortion law. Lawmakers from 
see GERMANY I page 3 


page 2 The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Absence of maids really 'stinks' 

Since the University--------­
is now forcing us to flush our own toilets in its quest to pro­duce mature, respon­sible and CLEAN Catholic graduates, I feel obliged to offer the community, obvi­ously shattered by the 
Alison Cocks
loss of the maids, my 
Editor-in-Chief

residence hall survival tips. --------­
You must always find the positive in every situation. Since your trash will only be emp­tied once a week (some weeks, anyway) and you know nothing will possess you to do it, you have a new excuse to add to the list of reasons why you cannot hand in your final 
paper. 
Forget horror tales about malfunctioning software, and LaserWriters that refuse to spew out your document. Stop vandalizing toner cartridges and disks all over campus to lend credibility to your tale. You have it made. 
By the end of the semester you will have accumulated so much garbage that if you tell your professor that your dog threw the masterpiece away by mistake he will auto­matically waive your final requirement. After all, it is unsanitary to expect students to dig through that much filth. 
And who cares about a few mice, roaches or ants? The attendance rate at your par­ties will double, which provides a great means to impress the opposite sex. Your scope might think he/she has competition. 
Granted, this lack of cleanliness could 
cause a few odors. They'll cover up the 
ethanol smell beautifully. And there's always 
the outside hope that if the entire campus 
smells like a brewery after a couple of 
weekends, the administration will be forced 
to acknowledge the existence of alcohol. 
The 'behind closed doors' approach will 
be more difficult to take, since rectors will 
never know whether the Coke you're carry­
ing down the hall is liberally spiked with 
rum or whether it's the lingering scent of 
your last three social gatherings. 
Don't forget that you never have enough money by Christmas. If you stop cleaning your sink now, you should have enough plant life growing from it by December to decorate in lieu of an expensive Christmas tree. 
This might prove particularly effective for Planner and Grace residents hoping to im­press their Christmas Formal dates with some extra holiday spirit. 
I suppose we could actually be responsible about this but why take the easy way out? If you're concerned that the University is not adequately pampering you, consider finding other students with similar desires for neatness. 
How about the students who clean out the War Memorial fountain periodically when they dump a week's supply of soap into it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471

Today's Staff:  
News  Sports  Systems  
Amy Leroux  Frank Pertor  Mark Sloan  
Catherine Kane  Chris Cooney  Kevin Blot  
Paul Pearson  Jon Stewart  
Production  
Accent  Andy Morrow  Business  
Shonda Wilson  Greg Tice  Sandra Wiegand  
Cristina Ortiz  Ann Buff  Caroline Clarke  

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, Aug. 30. Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 92 
Yesterday's low: 6 6 
Nation's high: 109 
(Borrego Springs and 
Needles, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 3 7 
(West Yellowstone, 
Mont.) 
Forecast: Thursday 
will be mostly sunny, 
cooler and less humid 
with highs in the 80s. 
Mostly clear skies 

FRONTS: Thursday night will allow lows to fall into the lower to middle 60s. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Prassure 
® © ~ ~ m EZ3 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURR_IES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associat9d Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Big Ben's bell is back in business, tolling the Masked Mohawks on Wednesday helped hours as it has done for 131 years. The famous, booming soldiers tear down barricades set up seven weeks ago to tone of the 13 1/2-ton bell resumed at 10 p.m. Tuesday block the Mercier Bridge to the island of Montreal, for the first time since March 26, the Department of the avoiding a bloody confrontation. They then began Environment said. Inspectors found earlier this year that dismantling a barricade near Chateauguay on a highway the hammer which strikes the bell was suffering metal fa­bloci(ed since July 11, when Mohawks at Oka fought a gun tigue, so repairs were made. Big Ben, named after Sir battle with provincial police in a dispute over land the Benjamin Hall, a government works commissioner, first community of Oka earmarked as a golf course. The sounded May 31, 1859. Indians said it was ancestral land. 
Vice President Dan Quayle said Wednesday that the threat to peace posed by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein vindicates the Republican-led U.S. military buildup of the past decade. Address­ing a warmly receptive audience in the 72nd annual meeting of the American Legion, 

NATIONAL 

After leaving a note saying we decided we don't want anymore," an 82-year-old man, shot and killed his 80-year-old, cancer-stricken wife in her hospital room Wednesday, then killed himself, police said. "It appears to be a homicide-suicide, mercy-type killing," Police Chief Frank Pomeroy said. Jane Harbrecht had been at Com­munity Memorial Hospital for about two weeks awaiting surgery Her husband, Raymond Harbrecht, had previ­ously been married to another woman who died of cancer. "A lot of financial and emotional concerns came from that," Pomeroy said. 
OF INTEREST 

Volunteer tutors are needed for elementary and high school students on Tuesdays from 6 to 7:30 p.m. September 10 through December 11 in Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's. An orientation meeting will be held September 10 from 6 to 7 p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If you are interested call Hallie at 284-5316 or Betsy at 
Ad Design Viewpoint Graphics Kerry Clair Kathy Welch Bradford Boehm Maria Blohm Tony Paganelli 
Circulation Amy Eckert 
Chris Hanely Cara Eckman 
lu Medeiros 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacat1on penods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
284-4441. 
INDIANA 

A burglary convict serving a 12-year sentence at the Indiana Reformatory was stabbed to death Wednesday, Department of Correction officials said. Sam Shawn Miller, who had been sentenced out of Indianapolis, was due to be released in October 1994, officials said. 
State and federal environmental protection investigators went to two northern Indiana landfills Wednesday to talk to operators about medically contaminated out-of-state trash rejected for disposal, officials said. They visited the T.H. Landfill near Peru and the Spring Valley Landfill near Wabash. 
The Annual LaFortune Student Center Open House will be held Friday, September 7, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. If you want further information or have questions, call Nancy at 7308. 
All off-campus students can now pick up. a copy of Du Lac: Student Life P.olicies and Pro~e?ures. m the Office of Student Affairs, 315 Admmistratwn Building. This booklet contains important information for 
all students. 
ALMANAC 
On August 30: 
e In 1922: All of South Russia re­ported in revolt against Bolsheviks. e In 1937: Joe Louis beats Tom Farr in first title defense. e In 1949: In Paris, the U.S.S.R. rejects Western plea for reunification 
for Germany. e In 1969: 96 of the 113 members of the hijacked TWA jet are set free by 
Syrians. Israelis are the only ones not released. e Ten Years Ago: Poland gives 
workers the right to independent unions, but walkout continues. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 1 77.78  '!} 1.52  
S&P Composite 324.19  '{} 2.85  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,632.43 '{} 17.58 Precious Metals Gold +$0.10 to $385.30/ oz. Silver{/ 1.6¢ to $4.826 I oz. 

--------~-~---------~------~~----------~--­
Thursday, August 30, 1990 
The Observer page 3 

AP Photo 
No handicap for Channel swimmer 
Legless swimmer Lucyna Krajeswka, 21, of Dortmund, West Ger­many, is carried from the English Channel in Dover Monday night by her British guide Richard Armstrong after she completed her swim of the channel. Krajeswka completed the swim in a remark­able 12 hours 29 minutes. She failed to finish the swim when she attempted it for the first time last year. 

is looking for: Advertising Representitives and Advertising Clerks 
Please call Beth Bolger at 239-6900 or 288-0597 for more information. 
' 

preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 

Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP? lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor. 

! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour dumces 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
NO student claims new parking lot construction is harming wildlife 
By PETER AMEND News Writer 
In the process of construct­ing a new parking lot on the corner of Juniper and Douglas Roads, five acres of foliage were removed, which has the Environmental Action Club (EAC) concerned about the safety of the wildlife in the sur­rounding area. 
Last summer, Sam Nigro, a member of the student-run EAC, discovered the destruction crew in progress. "I was strolling through these woods when I saw the crew of back­hoes digging up the trees. I asked one of the crew to stop what he was doing because he was killing a lot of plants and animals," he said. 
Nigro began a petition to stop the destruction of these woods. He said he obtained 136 signatures from both students and local residents. "I was working with a sense of des­pening right then and there and not that many people were on campus to know about it," Ni­gro said. 
Thomas Mason, vice presi­dent of Business Affairs, was one of the administrators re­sponsible for overseeing the parking lot project. Mason said the plot of land used for the parking lot was once farm property with few healthy trees remaining. 
"We removed all the old bushes and left the trees that were still good. Notre Dame has a strict policy that any tree removal for construction pur­poses has to get administrative permission," Mason said. When asked why the parking lot was being constructed, Mason said, "we have to respond to the needs of an expanding univer­sity." 
Within the 580 acres of woods that ND owns, Nigro's primary concern is the cluster of deer dens located a few yards from where the foliage


Several soldiers from the 24th Infantry Division (mechanized) read copies of the Arab News, an English language newspaper, under the wing of an airplane Tuesday. These troops arrived Tuesday in Saudi Arabia to take part in Operation Desert Shield which originated when Iraq annexed Kuwait. 
WHO: The Class of 1991 WHEN: September 3rd-21st WHERE: 3rd Floor of LaFortune WHY: To Be In The 1991 Dome 
SIGN UP AUGUST28th-31st NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Production Manager 
To apply, please submit a resume and a two-page personal statement to Alison Cocks by Friday, August 31 at 5 p.m. Any questions should be directed to A1ison at 239-7471. 

was removed. He has tried to bring the issue to Indiana's De­partment of Natural Resources (DNR). Nigro says nothing can be done legally because "the laws simply aren't written to save our resources." 
Nigro has asked whether or not the land in question con­tains any endangered species. He said the DNR had not yet given him a response. Nigro said he was disappointed that in order to save l"and, a rare species has to be found on the property. 
University President Father Edward Malloy recently an­nouneed the formation of the Environmental Concerns Committee, chaired by Mason, which will focus on the ecologi­cal issues facing Notre Dame. 
Nigro will give a presentation and slide show about last summer's campus events at the Center for Social Concerns on September 6 at 7:30p.m. 
AP Photo 
Germany 
continued from page 1 
Kohl's coalition said the more restrictive West German abor­tion regulations should auto­matically extend to what is now East Germany at the end of two years. 
Earlier Wednesday, Schaeuble expressed confidence that all major obstacles to the treaty would be worked out. 
Schaeuble also said Kohl's government and West Ger­many's 11 states agreed that Oct. 3, the chosen date of unity, will be written into the treaty as an all-German national holi­day. 
The Interior Minister told re­porters the treaty will likely be signed Friday in West Berlin at a ceremony in the Reichstag, the former Parliament and one of Germany's most important landmarks, "if everything goes according to my own desires." 
He said the two German gov­ernments will hold one final round of negotiations on the treaty Thursday. 
Schaeuble made the remarks after Kohl met with governors of the 11 West German states, most of whom belong to the opposition Social Democrat Party. 
The conservative chancellor needs a two-thirds parliamen­tary majority to ratify the treaty and thus the support of the Social Democrats, the sec­ond-largest party in West Ger­many. 
The Social Democrats had given Kohl until Wednesday to reverse his earlier decision on abortion. During the past two days, he had given strong sig­nals he would do so rather than jeopardize the treaty. 

~-~-------------~~--~­
~------------~~-~---------------­
r page 4 The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1990 
I 
I 
r
' 
Tornadoes tear through northern Illinois 
24 killed, more than 300 injured by surprise storms; Bush declares scene disaster area 
CREST HILL, Ill. (AP) -Res­cuers on Wednesday searched a tornado-devastated swath of northern Illinois for the missing and the dead, while folks began salvaging belongings from homes the twisters shredded "like an eggbeater." 
At least 24 people died and more than 300 were injured Tuesday by the tornadoes, which steamrolled across a re­gion known as "Tornado Al­ley," about 35 miles southwest of Chicago. 
Scores of people were left homeless. Others spent the day cleaning their yards, hammer­ing on temporary roofs, sifting through rubble, piling up be­longings in pickup trucks lining the streets in neighboring Plainfield. Offers of aid have poured in, including one from the Soviet embassy in Washing­ton. 
Theresa Rabaduex, a 23­year-old school bus driver who lived in a complex ripped apart 

AP Photo 
A resident is comforted by a friend after she arrived at the Crest Hill Lakes apartments in Crest Hill, Ill., after a tornado roared through the town Tuesday. The woman thought her children, who were later found safe, were in the top floor of the complex which was destroyed. 
ND student named Cadet of the Year 
Special to The Observer 
Amy Patrin, a University of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC 
cadet (Detachment 225), has/"::=====================:::-"

been named the Air Force ROTC Outstanding Cadet of the Year by the Air Force Association. 
The Cadet of the Year award is one of the highest awards given by the association and re­flects excellence across the full spectrum of attributes and abilities. 
Patrin, a senior electrical engineering major from Apple Valley, Minn., has made the dean's list each of the last three semesters. She served as direc­tor of operations for the 225th cadet group, as well as director of transportation for Area IX Headquarters of the Arnold Air Society (AAS), the service orga­nization closely affiliated with 
10 miles AP 

Volunteer. 
American Heart t/aAssociation V 

tho indt-prnd•ml ..W.nl ,....paper 5<'I'Vinf! "'-dame ond sainl nwv'• 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
the Air For.ce Association of~:::======================:::;~
America and the Air Force ROTC. 
This year she will hold the position of vice commander on the AAS National Staff. 
She also conducts a popular weekly aerobics class for cadets, assists in chapel ser­vices as eucharistic minister and lector, and has worked with the Notre Dame Urban Plunge program. She is active in non-varsity athletics and participated in varsity crew her freshman year. 
Patrin's peers selected her as the detachment's cadet of the year for 1990 as well. She will receive the AFA award with a formal presentation during the Air Force Association National Convention in September. 
Attention: Off campus students Graduate students Faculty 


Purchase THE SHIRT now 2nd Floor LaFortune S.U.B. Secretary's Desk 
by the storm in Crest Hill, said tenants in her building were being moved to free lodging "but that doesn't do you any good if you don't have any of your things. I don't even have a bed." 
She walked through the de­bris, trying to find her three black cats. "That's all that re­ally matters to me," she said. 
"It was like an eggbeater went through the inside of the house," Bruce Marshall said as he tried to fashion a makeshift cover for his roofless home in neighboring Plainfield. · 
The storms struck virtually without warning Tuesday afternoon along an eight-mile path. Hit hardest were the small towns of Crest Hill and Plainfield. Portions of Joliet also were damaged, including a new subdivision of houses torn down to their foundations just a few months after they were built. 
Gov. James Thompson said he's seen a lot of disasters dur­ing 14 years in office, but "nothing in my personal expe­rience ... compares with this." 
"Anything that is still stand­ing is pure luck," he said after touring the stricken area Wednesday. 
"All I can say is thank God the death toll is not in the hun­dreds. We are very, very lucky." 
President Bush declared the region a disaster area. The So­viet officials called the gover­nor's office seeking informa­tion on how to help, Thompson said. 

Illinois will provide at least $25 million in state deposits for low-interest loans to tornado victims, said state Treasurer Jerry Cosentino. 
There were 24 fatalities con­firmed Wednesday, and toll could reach 30 dead, said John Plunk, acting director of the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency. 
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 

•u•••. *D&IoU 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask tor John O'Maley. 

·s currently looking for interesting and dedicated people to write for the News Department. If you want to be part of the team that delivers the news to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community each day, then you should attend a meeting on Monday, September 3 in the Sorin room on the first floor of LaFortune at 7 p.m. If you are unable to attend, please call Kelley or Janice at 239-5303. 
HELP WANTED!! 
Multiple student positions are open for Fall/Spring Semesters in Information Se~ices, Department of User Services, Office of University Computing. 
Documentation Students: Need 2 documentation students who will be responsible for writing introductory user guides to specified computer software products. Extensive knowledge in at least one of the following Macintosh software packages is required: PageMaker, Excel, WordPerfect, Hypercard. Strong writing skills a must. 
Editing Student: Extensive writing/editing background is required for this position. Experience using Macintosh, PageMaker, MSWord and graphics software is preferred. 
Publications Graphic Designer/Layout Student: Heavy graphic arts background with experience using Macintosh graphics software (particularly, Adobe Illustrator) is ideal. Responsible for graphic design and layout of OUC publications. 
Graphic Designer: Strong graphic arts background with experience using Macintosh graphics software packages. Responsible for OUC graphic design projects which includes computer screen design for special presentations. 
Multimedia Student: In search of a student to conduct multimedia product evaluations (includes audio, video: animation, text and graphics products), 
develops multimedia presentations and assists in maintaining the OUC's 
Multimedia Lab. Programming on the Macintosh with knowledge of 
Macintosh authoring languages recommended. 
Office Students: Students needed to staff the business office. Computer, 
typing, filing and general office experience required. Need to have a good 
phone personality and strong organizational skills. 
Applications for Employment may be picked up from Denis Lindquist, Room GOOI in the basement of the Computing Center/Math Building. 

APPhoto 
Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu talks to reporters after a talk be­tween church officials and President F.W. de Klerk, who pledged to in­vestigate charges of police bias in township violence. 
HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
218 233 2178 

MALE GRADUATE HOUSING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 
· 9 month lease 

The Observer page·S 
South African groups begin discussions to end fighting 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Police used bird­shot, batons and tear gas Wednesday to disperse student marches against fighting in black townships. Three blacks died in new violence, raising the toll to 518 in less than three weeks. 
Also Wednesday, delegations linked to the African National Congress and the conservative Inkatha movement met in Natal Province to discuss the violence, according to news reports. 
The independent South Africa Press Association reported a member of the ANC's national executive committee, Jacob Zuma, took part. 
Inkatha, who are supported by the Zulus, have been at war with ANC-affiliated groups since the mid-1980s in Natal. Battles erupted in the town­ships around Johannesburg on Aug. 12. 
Low-level delegations from Inkatha and the ANC have met previously, but ANC leaders have refused to meet Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi. They contend Inkatha spread the conflict to the Johannes­burg area this month to broaden its constituency. Inkatha accuses the ANC of terrorizing other black opposi­tion groups to try to consoli­date power. 
Inkatha and the ANC both oppose apartheid, South Africa's system of racial sepa­ration, but they differ on ways to fight it. 
Buthelezi reiterated his call Wednesday for a meeting with ANC deputy president Nelson Mandela. He also said in a statement the ANC should end, instead of merely suspending, its armed struggle and stop calling for sanctions to push South Africa to end apartheid. 
The violence around Johan­nesburg has eased markedly since the initial days of fight­ing, when dozens of blacks were killed daily. But protests against the fighting and allega­tions of police bias toward Inkatha have continued. 
In Cape Town on Wednesday, police fired tear gas and bird­shot at students from the Uni­versity of the Western Cape, near Cape Town, who were protesting the recent violence, witnesses said. 
Police Maj. Gys Boonzaaier told the independent South Africa Press Association the students were throwing rocks at police and passing vehicles. 
Separate protests against the fighting also were held in Jo­hannesburg and Pretoria. 
Police used batons and tear gas to disperse a march by stu-
United way
• 
It brings out the best in all of u~" 

dents from the University of the 
Witwatersrand in Johannes­
burg, SAPA reported. Forty-six 
students were arrested and two 
police officers slightly injured, 
police said. 
Later, students from several 

organizations held a protest 
along a downtown street to 
protest the police action. 
Riot police in Pretoria halted a march by students of the Medical University . of South Africa. police and the univer­sity's rector said. The students said they had not sought per­mission for the march. 
In the township violence, two men were hacked to death and set alight at a migrant work­ers' hostel in Tembisa, north­east of Johannesburg, while another died at a hostel in Katlehong, southeast of the city, police said. 
Some anti-apartheid leaders have blamed police for fueling the fighting in the townships. 
President F.W. de Klerk told Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu and other church leaders Tuesday he would investigate charges that police sided with Inkatha. 
De Klerk has previously said individual officers may have acted improperly but that the police force as a whole followed orders to be impartial. 
Sad dam 
continued from page 1 
"A hostage by definition means that you have to take someone and ask for someone in return for releasing them. What have we asked from the United States in return for re­leasing them? We have asked for nothing," he said. 
Saddam claims he has 6.5 million men under arms. Iraq is estimated to have armed forces of about 1 million, but Saddam claims about 5 million Iraqis serve in a militia known as the Popular Army. 
In the French interview, the Iraqi president also denied ear­lier reports he had pledged to Egyptian President Hoshi Mubarak he would not invade Kuwait. 
Research works. 

,1riangle Drafting SupplyNDTRE DAME AND sAINT MARv·s sTuDENTs ' BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS 1 021 North Moi n Street PLUS MishtlWtlktl 1ndiono 46545 20" DISCOUNTS WITH STUDENT ID ON MOS
DON'T BUY YOUR BOOKS !!! 8 
259~2459 ITEMS 
M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT 9AM-NOON 
(Yet) Before you overpay for books, shop at 
Dillon's STB Booksale 

The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1990 
Library loses rare books and manuscripts to theft, adopts new security procedures 
By DEBBIE LOHMAN thefts are more sophisticated mutilation. We hope that the News Writer and therefore attract more na­new measures will not prove us tional attention. Consequently, wrong, and that our patrons 
On March 21, 1990, the FBI Hesburgh Library staff mem­will endure these changes for confiscated a stash of rare bers are taking steps to in­the benefit of all." books stolen from institutions crease security. Notre Dame's Rare Book Col­across the country, including Jordan states, "We have lection contains over 27,000 ti­
the Theodore Hesburgh Li­made modifications to our in­tles. It includes such treasures brary. ternal procedures as a way of as handwritten manuscripts 
Sonja Jordan, head of Special providing assurances to our dating back to the 11th century, Collections and Preservation, patrons and our community rare books such as Historic confirmed that some books that we are sensitive to the in­Scholastica, cuneiform tablets were indeed stolen from Notre creased possibilities of theft or and original works of art. Dame's special collection. She explained, "At this point, we are unable to determine which 
books are actually missing be­cause the FBI has not yet com­pleted its investigation. " 
FBI agents discovered ap­


orate the 1Oth anniversary of 
Post office announces hours 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame Post Office hours are the following: 8 am -4:30 pm Monday through Friday, 
9:30 am -12 pm Saturday, and closed Sundays and Holidays. The Post Office Lobby is open from 5 am -9:30 pm. Postage Vending Machines are located in the Post Office Lobby, at the LaFortune Student Center, and at the Haggar Hall Student Center, Saint Mary's. 
The following zip range has a one-day originating service commitment listing : 463-469. 
The following zip ranges have a two-day originating service commitment listing: 150-152, 155-156, 158, 161, 163-168, 170'-171, 173-177, 179-182, 184-187, 189-196, 200, 202­206, 208-212, 214-218, 220­223, 226-237, 239-264, 266­268, 270-278, 280-283, 285­298, 300-312, 316-319, 350­352, 354-364, 367-393, 399­418, 420-427, 430-432, 434­462, 470-516, 520-528, 530­532, 534-535, 537-551, 553­554, 556-564, 566, 570-577, 600-606, 609-620, 622-631, 633-641, 644-658, 660-662, 664-681, 683-693, 716-717, 719-729, 739. 
The following zip ranges have a three-day originating service commitment listing: 004-098, 100-149, 153-154, 157, 159­160, 162, 169, 172, 178, 183, 188, 197-199, 207, 219, 224­225, 238, 265, 279, 284, 299, 313-315, 320-340, 342, 346­347, 349, 365-366, 394-396, 433, 565, 567, 580-588, 590­599, 700-701, 703-708, 710­714, 718, 730-731, 733-738, 740-741, 743-816, 820-838, 840-847' 850, 852-857. 859­860, 863-865, 870-875, 877­885, 889-891, 893-895, 897­898, 900, 902-908, 910-928, 930-999. 
This list is not a guarantee, but a goal which, according to the Post Office, will be reached 90% of the time. 
proximately 11,000 stolen 

is currently accepting applications for the 
books and rare manuscripts at the home Stephen Blumberg, a 

following positions: 
resident of St. Paul, Minnesota. Law enforcement officials had 

Associate News 
been investigating Blumberg for two years. Due to an increased aware­

Editors 
ness of the value of rare books, 

To apply, please submit a two-page personal 
we·re Fighting For Your Life. A Czech lady poses in front of the Polish House of Culture which 
statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley 
is decorated by Polish graphic designer Jerzy Kalina to commem-!t. 
Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
the founding of Solidarity. ~American Heart 
~~~~~~~~V~As:so:c:iat~io;n-Ja.~====:;======~ 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS ON THESE DOORS FIRST. Why? Because Army ROTC helps you develop management and leadership skills. Builds your self-confidence. And makes you a desirable candidate in the job market. There's no obligation until your junior year, but stick with it and you'll have what it takes to succeed-in college and in life. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN Tm. 

Thursday, August 30, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
'Devout Christian' sues National Endowment for Arts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A The lawsuit was filed against from Los Angeles. the NEA-supported catalog for lawyer filed a lawsuit against the NEA and its chairman, John The suit cited the NEA's the Wojnarowicz show includes the National Endowment for Frohnmayer, in U.S. District grant last year for "Tongues of an image depicting Jesus Christ the Arts on Wednesday, alleging Court by the Rutherford Insti­Flame," an exhibit of works by as an intravenous drug user. It that its $15,000 grant for an tute, a non-profit legal services David Wojnarowicz of New said the catalogue also refers artist's controversial exhibition organization, on behalf of York that was organized by to Roman Catholic Cardinal displayed "open and notorious David Fordyce. University Galleries at Illinois John O'Connor of New York as hostility toward religion" and Fordyce, a lawyer, was de­State University. a "fat cannibal" and "the violated the Constitution. scribed as a "devout Christian" The Fordyce suit alleged that world's most active liar about 

GREEKS HAVE ALWAYS APPRECIATED COMFORT. 
What is real comfort? ARussell Athletic Sweatshirt. And if you know your history, you could be living alot more comfortably next term. Simply identify this famous face and the two others in our newspaper campaign, and you could win a$1,000 scholarship from Russell Athletic for next semester.* Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 
*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

condoms and safer sex." 

Fordyce said NEA support for the catalog conveys "ames­sage of hate and animosity to­ward institutionalized religion" sponsored by the federal gov­ernment in violation of the First Amendment's provision for separation of church and state. 
He asked the court for a perma11ent injunction prohibit­ing the arts endowment from "funding, sponsoring and en­dorsing works which promote blasphomous and sacrilegious hate material." 
The rndowment, an indepen­dent, $171 million federal agency that underwrites a wide variety of artists and arts or­ganizations, had no immediate comment on the lawsuit. 
The NEA is embroiled in a controversy over art, obscenity and freedom of expression stemming from allegations by religious fundamentalists and conservative lawmakers. 
Monk 

continued from page 1 
Malloy called the conference "a chance to interact with peo­ple from all over the world.~ He discovrred thaf "Notre Dame enjoys a good reputation inter­nationally." 
Such casual exchanges also provided an opportunity to dis­cuss such simultaneously oc­curring global events as the Iraqi crisis. The circumstances­forced an Iraqi university pres­ident to withdraw from the running for vice-president of the Central Office. 
While Malloy did not have a great deal of contact with the representatives of various Arab schools, he said, "comments from one Iranian university president indicated his desire to have better communications between their part of the world and ours." 
Earlier in the summer, Malloy also wont to Spain to address the Tri-annual Conference of the IntPrnational Association of University Presidents on the "various aspects of culture and how they affect what goes on in higher education." 
This also afforded him the 
opportunity to visit some of the 
sites of the world's oldest uni­
versities, such as Salamanca, a 
part of the world he had never 
seen before. 
However, the majority of the summer months were not spent abroad as Malloy's schedule was complete with meetings and addresses all across the United States. 

In Moraga, Calif., he spoke to an audience of 600 Christian Brothers at Saint Mary's Col­lege on the future of higher ed­ucation. In Chicago, he deliv­ered a similar talk on chal­lenges that face this higher ed­ucation. This included reference to demographics, diversity, the humane use of science and technology and a better sense of community. 
In addition, he addressed the National Press Association on the ethics of photo journalism, calling attention to today's ca­pacity for computer manipula­

tion, the issue of privacy and other topics "relevant to the re­sponsible practice of the pro­fession." 
With regard to the University, Malloy, along with the officers of the Provost office and their spouses, vacationed at the aquatic research facilities in Land 0' Lakes, Wise., to review the events of the past year and discuss plans for the 1990-91 academic year. He was also available on campus to monitor the summer activities. 
r-------------------~----~ -------~-­
Viewpoint
page 8 
The Obset:Ver ~= 
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) ~~39-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Managm John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... aeth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ...............M1chelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor................. Colleen Cron.n Systems Mgr .... Bernard Elrenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Enc Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinn1ck 
Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller.. , .................... Chris Anderson 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the Univers1ty ol Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther .nstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJonty of the Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the v1ews of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 


Thursday, August 30, 1990 

I '! I ·r. 
•,'I 
. r 


Civil rights extend beyond the right to smoke 
By Ashok Rodrigues should have. By lending his infamous with its recent ing "that's why I quit twenty and in his civil rights activities. 
name, his picture, and the name Uptown and Dakota brands. years ago." But when asked if It is upsetting, then, to see him 
This summer, a full-page ad­of the school to the ad, he Other companies operate simi­he would have done the ad if an support Philip Morris, and to vertisement appeared through­mocks his role as an educator larly. Time magazine notes organization such as Planned be so evasive in his justification out the country in publications and civil rights advocate, and that "a survey in Baltimore Parenthood sponsored it, his for it. In a tribute to Hesburgh such as Newsweek, Time, and tarnishes Notre Dame's reputa­found that 20% of billboard answer was merely, "Of course upon his retirement, America The New York Times. The ma­tion. In dealing with public to­advertising in white communi­not, that's different," though he magazine said that "for a suc­jority of the page was com­bacco smoke, there are more ties was devoted to smoking would supply no analysis. My cinct commentary on the posed of a picture of Father rights to consider than those and drinking. In black neigh­point is not to bring abortion achievements of Father Theodore Hesburgh. Next to few for which !Philip Morris borhoods 76% of the billboards into the issue. The point is that Hesburgh... an explanation this, a large type quote read took out the ad. promoted such vices." both organizations, in borrowed from Thoreau fits "The unfinished business of the The first set of these rights Though these companies are Hesburgh's opinion, have a exactly: "At what an expense Bill of Rights ... " The following are those of the passive adamant that they do not en­hand in hundreds of thousands any valuable work is per­text quoted Hesburgh on the smoker. At the same time the courage youths to smoke, this of deaths a year. However, one formed! At the expense of a continuing need to recognize ad began surfacing, the EPA is hardly the case. In an article is simply "different," whereas life." It is unfortunate that and fight for the basic human released a study estimating entitled "Selling to Children," he didn't even have to "think Hesburgh has so tarnished his rights contained in that docu­that due to other people's to­Consumer Reports noted that twice" about lending his name valuable works and now is ment. bacco smoke, 3,800 nonsmok­Philip Morris has spent hun­and reputation to the other. helping others expend their 
On the whole, it would seem ers die yearly from lung cancer dreds of thousands of dollars Without a doubt, Hesburgh lives. an admirable reiteration of the alone. When other cancers and to have its cigarettes appear in has many remarkable achieve­premises this nation was heart disease are included, movies with young target audi­ments, especially in giving this Ashok Rodrigues is a junior 
in the College ofEngineering.

founded on. Unfortunately, it other studies have put the ences. In Japan, Philip Morris university its current status is not. In bold-face type below death toll around 50,000 annu­uses youths directly in their the quote we see the name of ally. Philip Morris doesn't stop ads. Such tactics work. Time LETTERS the Philip Morris tobacco com­at just denying that these notes that "half of all current pany. With it is the distinctive statistics are true. The com­smokers first lighted up by age Hesburgh ad tarnishes reputation insignia that appears on the pany has gone so far as to 15." Even more tragic is the packages of the company's ci­publish its own magazine en­National Cancer Advisory Dear Editor: nently sponsored by a tobacco garette products. couraging people to insist that Board report that noted that in Today I was deeply disap­
company, Hesburgh is lendingPhilip Morris is not a com­they be allowed to smoke in the United States alone, pointed to find a full page ad­his voice (and, by extension, pany concerned with human front of people who do not wish 120,000 children under 12 use vertisement in Newsweek that of the Church and of Notre and civil rights in the context of them to. Philip Morris is using tobacco. magazine from the Phillip 
Dame) to those of the nicotine Hesburgh's quote. It is a com­the Bill of Rights as a catch To me, it is unbelievable that Morris Company quoting drug companies. Their efforts, pany trying to protect its prof­phrase. But it provides no Hesburgh could support such Father Hesburgh, former pres­
and now his, serve to thwart 
its by ensuring people's "right" analysis of why smokers should advertising. Hesburgh's expla­ident of the University of Notre critical public health endeavors. to smoke. This ad is merely the have a right that impedes upon nations of why he did it are Dame. On the face of it, one can latest in a series of attempts by the rights of the rest of the vague and unsatisfying. He argue the moral consequence of Tobacco smoke kills more Philip Morris to insist that population. claimed to have no idea why a pre-eminent person such as people in this country than any smoking persists in the The second group of people Philip Morris paid for the ad. Hesburgh speaking of "the un­othpr identifiable cause--some American environment. suffering due to the actions of He said that the company does finished business of the Bill of :lSu,OOO deaths each year from Unfortunately, their use of this companies such as Philip produce other products, citing Rights." However, he is a man excess strokes, heart disease quote is a gross misinterpreta­Morris are smokers themselves. Kraft foods as an example. of great intelligence and wis­and cancers according to the tion of the civil rights work our Nicotine is a highly addictive However, Kraft foods do not dom. He knows well the impor­Surgeon General. The evidence former president has done. agent that prevents many who bear the Philip Morris name or tance of context. is also strong for significant 
The blame is not Philip use it from quitting. Few peo­insignia. More importantly, no Although there has been some harm done by "passive smoke" Morris' alone. Hesburgh ap­ple not associated with the one is questioning anyone else's progress towards limiting the to children and other innocent proved of and was paid for the Tobacco Institute dispute the right to eat Philadelphia Cream advertising and use of tobacco bystanders. I hope that ad .(The money was donated to latest Surgeon General's report Cheese. products, these efforts have Hesburgh will refrain from is­the school). When interviewed, showing 390,000 smokers die A claim that Philip Morris been fought vigorously by the suing any other implicit or ex­he said that it didn't matter from tobacco each year. placed the ad out of the good­tobacco companies. Their ma­plicit endorsements of this who had taken out the ad. He Furthermore, it is the policy ness of its heart is hardly cred­jor argument seems to hinge on lethal drug. stated confidently that he of tobacco companies to target ible and terribly naive. When first amendment rights. Clearly, "didn't think twice" about the youths and minority groups to asked about the death statistics by permitting use of his name Richard H. Sandler, M.D. fact that it was Philip Morris encourage peoph~ to take up relating to tobacco, he said in an advertisement on first Boston, MA sponsoring the ad. Perhaps he smoking. R.J. Reynolds is most that he agreed with them. say-amendment rights to be promi-July3,1990 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 

'Nothing great was ever 
achieved without enthusiasm.' 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
( 1803-1882) 

DOONESBURY 
MOI?NIN6, CAMPEI?S. MAJ?.Vet.­

7HANK5, MMJ<.
OUS MARl< HiiRe IUffH AN 

IT's GReAr TO 
~!?PITICW~'U!?JJ4N 
BeiNAFUUY
IDMe fUtfPJ4NtON:Ff!A71J~N6 
HEA7lil? 81JIWIN6-' 
OiJR OUJ ~ ElMONT.' 


-------------------------------------~--~-~----------"""""11 
Accent ­
page 9

Thursday, August 30, 1990 
Living Legend leads fans through time warp 
Bob Dylan performs at the Holiday Star 
JOE MOQDY nally born-again Christian Bruce as hundreds of wattage Shall Be Released," the audi­out on burgundy but soon hit accent writer stages (breath in). blasted through my ears just ence got up and gathered the harder stuff." he confesses He has evolved from a won­feet away from front stage: "Go around the stage in a hippie in "Just Like Tom Thumb's dering street hipster into a to him now, he calls you. You convergence singing, "I see my Blues." The smoke rings in his 
"The time's, they are a­righteous, God-inspired family can't refuse. When you ain't life come shining from the west mind though the foggy ruins of changin ·." They may not have man. And he reminded every­got nothin '. You got nothin' to down to the east. Anyday now, time have taken toll. changed the way Bob Dylan en­one in the theatre Tuesday Lose. You're invisible now, you anyday now, I shall be re­At age 20, his freshman year visioned in 1964, but they did night of each faze as he time got no secrets to conceal. How Leased." in college at Minnesota, he de­momentarily for the faithful warped from song to song. does it feel? ... " At one point he actually com­cided to drop everything, go who attended his concert last At one moment he would tell ·His lyrics alone are consid­plemented the audience, down Highway 61, and make a Tuesday as he shook the win­his aware audience that "It ered poetry, of which he re­"You've been good." -A rarity life as a "Song and Dance Man," dows and rattled the walls of may be the Devil, or it may be ceived an honorary degree from in Dylan mannerisms who in the beatnik-ridden streets the Holiday Star in Merriville. the Lord, but you're going to Princeton. Jimmy Carter thrived on the boos that rose and coffee houses of New York 
The curious crowd ranged have to serve somebody. " Then quoted him in his 1976 cam­from folk purists in 1965 when City. On his reflections of from the learned old to the later he would fire up with his paign speech (the election he he put down his acoustic guitar college, he told a reporter, loaded young and everywhere cleverly titled Rainy Day won). A guy in front of me re­for a moment to play the elec­"College is like an old-folks in between. Ironically, ties Women #12 and 35. You know, cited and echoed every word of tric guitar at the Newport Folk home, except more people die seemed more common than tie­the one that goes "But I would each song to his girlfriend Festival. Dylan has never set in college." dyes. Most of Dylan's praising not feel so all alone . .. throughout the entire concert. his priorities at being a crowd His past loves have included peers appear to have gotten everybody must get stoned/" A It's romantic, but common man, pleaser. folk legend Joan Baez and a jobs and swung their political contradiction in messages? get a room. So why shell out twenty-five Playboy Bunnie, each with their pendulums to the right a few Nahhh. The biggest let down of the bucks to see a guy who couldn't own attractions, obviously .... miles, except for the never dy­Dylan's music and powerful evening wasn't the half-U2, care less about your criticism? Luckily, Dylan has managed ing but always grateful Heads. lyric were responsible for in­half-REM, surprisingly impres­That's exactly why. throughout his career to avoid 
Dylan, whose songs have ducing artists such as Bruce sive Wire Train, who opened Being a self-taught musician becoming too commercial. He's been sung by everyone from Springsteen and John Cougar the show, but the fact that who's mastered piano, guitar not sponsored by Budweiser, he Jimi Hendrix to Billy Joel to the Melloncamp to choose a career Bobby only played for an hour and, of course, harmonica, he's hasn't done a Seagram's or a Red Hot Chilli Peppers, began of song. "It was like a door and a half. At twenty-five dol­held his own while playing with Michelob commercial, and you his show in electric. being kicked down in my head," lars a ticket, my wallet cried famed fans such as Eric don't need your Visa to get a 
He sang songs from his early commented Springsteen on his out for an encore. Clapton, The Grateful Dead, seat at his shows. folk days in New York going metaphysical experience upon However, Dylan did appear and George Harrison. On the future of this living le­into his defiantly psychodelic first hearing Dylan's "Like a much more alive and cheerful His appearance on the stage gend, he himself said it in his 60's era on through his simplis­Rolling Stone." than he has in the some of his doesn't hide the wear and tear 1988 album Down in the tic country days onto his When Dylan sang that song more recent performances. of his life on the road. And what Groove: "One ofthese days and Spanish, Middle Eastern and fi-Tuesday, I sympathized with When he began the ballad, "I a long strange trip it's been. it won't be Long, I'm going down 
From rumored heroin-use to to the valley to sing my song. alcohol trouble to a life-long I'm going to sing it loud, sing it smoking habit, he ran every strong. Let the echo decide ifI bridge he crossed. "I started was right or wrong. n 


Left: Sitting in the window seat of his hotel, Bob Dylan writes the songs that have inspired many of today's artists. Above: Dylan, accompanied by his associate. poses an impressive stance in his early performance days. 
'Twin Peaks' deserves a second glance 
MARC JOHNSON on ABC. worthy of a season high 22 the public opinion most in Twin nightmare is actually quite accent writer The highly acclaimed David Emmy nominations. Is "Twin Peaks had of Palmer. Federal interesting. A sprinkle of vio­Lynch is by no means a typical Peaks" really as good as the Agent Cooper (Kyle lence, a dash of the mysterious
"Twin Peaks" was viewed by television series director, for his critics claim? The answer is a MacLachlan) reveals a Laura and a lot of bizarre might ac­almost no one on the Notre style is better suited for the resounding "yes." Palmer that was never known tually be considered fun. Dame campus last season. freedom of the movie theater. to exist. His method of revela­
While Domers were glued to "Cheers" Thursday after Thursday, a large group of television viewers was watching and discussing the nightmarish visions of David Lynch's televi­sion creation. 
Though none should abandon Norm and Cliff, "Twin Peaks" is definitely deserving of a chance on campus. This chance may come this season as "Twin Peaks" moves to a 
9:00 p.m. time slot Saturdays This freedom allows Lynch to present the entirely shocking in the incredibly mundane. 1986's "Blue Velvet" illustrates this point as it tells the story of a young man in small-town America who discovers forbid­den sexual self-knowledge. 
The work is not exactly premiere material, but movie critics regard the creation as worthy an Oscar nomination for best director. Television critics also regard "Twin Peaks" as 
"Twin Peaks" is actually the name of a mythical lumber town in the Pacific Northwest. The series traces the events immediately following the mur­der of the most popular girl in the local high school, Laura Palmer. Nearly two dozen characters are directly involved in the investigation, and each character reveals more and more information regarding Palmer's private life. 
This private life is contrary to tion proves interesting enough to carry the show alone. Dreams are regarded as almost indisputable evidence because of Cooper's experience with the plight of the Tibetan people. Get it? Watch the show, and it will all make perfect sense. 
David Lynch claims that he is attempting to create a "daydream that is a fun place to visit." Most would never dream of a place called "Twin Peaks," but once they arrive, the 

How was your summer? Did you have an internship, service project, or interesting job? We'd like to hear about it for a future Accent page. Drop a line in the Accent mailbox at the Observer, 3rd floor of LaFortune. please include your name and phone number. 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1990 
McEnroe bullies his way to third round of Open 
win majors. It would be a won­Foreign Legion hat, or perhapsNEW YORK (AP) -John According to Grand Slam rules, hope it's not in the eye," derful exit" from tennis. a lot more practice on hard
McEnroe, scrapping like the a total of $7,500 in fines results McEnroe said. "I put ice on it. fighter of old and sporting the in a ban from the next Grand It's OK now. I tried to regroup The last time he won a Grand courts. Gomez, a clay court 
Slam title was 1984, when he specialist, fell to Luis Mattar,
bruised eye of a boxer, is back Slam event. and assess where I was. I was 
won his fourth U.S. Open and 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, and joinedin the U.S. Open in all his McEnroe got only half of his fortunate it was not in the eye. 
third Wimbledon. Wimbledon champion and top­racket-smashing glory. first serves in, but he dealt out It was bothering me and I was Ivan Lendl donned his desert seeded Stefan Edberg as a
McEnroe cracked a plastic 11 aces and 16 service winners. not ready to play. I was up a courtside USTA sign with his He lost his temper a couple of set and a break. There was no hat under a broiling sun and first-round loser.­
wandered in the wilderness for It was the first time since the racket, drawing a warning times as he fell behind 2-5 in sense in rushing." 
from the umpire, and bashed a the third set, but regained con­McEnroe, who lost in the first 40 games before becoming the Open era began in 1968 that 
ball within inches of a trol to take the next five games round at Wimbledon in June, only one of this year's men's two reigning Grand Slam 
lineswoman before beating with a splendid array of touch said it felt good to progress be­Grand Slam champions to sur­champions lost in the first 
David Engel, 6-2, 6-3, 7-5, volleys, hard groundstrokes yond the first couple of rounds, vive here. round of the U.S. Open. Lendl lost his way in the sec­Edberg's conqueror,
Wednesday to reach the third and deep, angled serves. but added, "there's a lot of ond set as he struggled with er­Alexander Volkov, didn't enjoyround here for the first time­He came off the court with a progressing left" to do. He said rors against West German his success very long as he
since 1987. mouse under his right eye, as if it would be a major step back if Michael Stich, but came tumbled out in the secondMcEnroe was fined $500 for he'd just come out of a mid­he could beat his next oppo­through with a 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, 6-round against Todd Witsken, 6­the racket-abuse warning, dleweight bout. This bruise, nent, No. 10 Andrei Chesnokov. 
3 victory to reach the third 2, 6-2. 6-3. 
bringing him closer to banish­though, was partly self-in­
round. Women's Wimbledon champment from the Australian Open flicted, the result of a serve by McJ:<:nroe, 31 and thinking French Open champion Martina Navratilova had no
next January. He was fined Engel in the second set that about retirement, conceded $6,500 for his cursing and ricocheted off McEnroe's that "at this point it's a real Andres Gomez, the fifth seed, problems winning her second­
might have benefited from round match, 6-0, 6-4, against
racket-throwing tantrum at the racket. longshot (to win) this particu­Australian last January. "For the initial second, you lar tournament. It's difficult to Lendl's flapping French Clare Wood. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
COUCH & 10 speed bike.272-6306 BETH NEEDS TICKETSIIIII Attention Freshman 
Take notice before it is 

Student tickets needed for too late Ster, 
'--_N_o_nc_e_s--JJ I..__FO_R_R_ENT_ __. PERSONALS 
719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and this may be your best advice 
TYPING AVAILABLE NEED A LOFT? I'VE GOT ONE Happy 19th Birthday'! 
BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM Air Force. all year
FOR YOU!! It's sturdy, hand­287-4082 Get ready for a fun-filled year on

CAMPUS. A ITACHED GARAGE. DO NOT BELIEVE A WORD 
painted and only $35. If interested, possibly the highest

BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING Call Beth at 288-0597 PETE "DMOC" RAUSCH SAYS 
Used Textbooks! call Michelle x3879. 
(and hottest) point on campus! 25% OFF LIST PRICE 
ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. Even Katherine has learned 
Forget the sober semester ­
SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need 
Pandora's Books On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak those 19 shots are going down! 
RHONDA. PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­
corner of NO ave. and Howard Hill condo like new condition, 2 Love,
1934, Bill. HI
233-2342 bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice Your four favorite fourthNEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and location in complex. $65,900. 
floor friends PRAYEA MEETING

secure turn. apt: 755 South Bend CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Need two MIAMI tickets for Thursdays@ 7:30pm
REALTY 282-2351. long lost WEAL THY uncle 
Siegfried Chapel references. 616-483-9572.

One month student loans up to 287-3472 Scotty ?? call Eileen x4815 
VISA OR MASTERCARD!
$250. Inquire at 2nd floor of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES 
Even if bankrupt or bad
78 Ford Fairmount 6 cylinder TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 

-------------------------------------FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 
credit! We guarantee you a
automatic, no rust, good tires, 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 
Can you hack the 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 

card or double your money
runs fine, $1275.00, call 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket 

MONSTER FUNK?
232-3616 
Mark 232-1846 for Air Force 

back.
I LOST/FOUND 
273-9469 Diane Bassist and singer with hard

Call (805) 682-7555
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME 2.1 cu. ft. Avanti Refrig. $50 x5456 funk chops and attitude My blue Notre Dame bookbag WALK TO ND 6838889 
Ext. M1443.
DESPERATELY need 3 Michigan needed to step in where was taken from a locker at OR2876389 

LOFTS: Call Joe or Jim tix and 3 Purdue tix. Stud/GA. TARTAR GUN left off-CHILlS: the bookstore on 8/24. It had 
288-3461 Aileen 259-9638. PLEASE!!!!!!!! COLOUR:BONE:SPYZ: etc. 
valuable files in it. If you 

3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER Jason (x1845) can help me find this bookbag 
APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES Need $$$?Sell BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Vince (287-9566)and its contents, please call 
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282-your ga's to all Loving couple, both college 
Desmond at 271-5693. No 
TICKETS

1014. home games. teachers, unable to have children. 
questions asked. Call tom x1597. Husband has adopted sisters. We 
Furnished room, air, kitchen, are responsible, caring people 
FUNK IS COLORBLIND! 
phone line. Close to campus. 272-FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ready to share our love with a
WANTED 

0615 PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S much wanted baby. Medical MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON NAME YOUR PRICEI!! expenses paid. Confidential and WANTED-Subway delivery HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. EDDY 9/22 & 9/23. $119.50/PERSON legal. Please call collect anytime 
DRIVERS NEEDED. $7-10/HR. 
#3501

driver/counterperson for Notre ST. · 6 BEDROOMS, 2 FULL BUT DBL. OCCUPANCY except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512. 
NIGHTS. DOMINO'S PIZZA, 271­
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 0300.
Dame & St. Mary's. Uniforms, BATHS, LIVING ROOM, EAT-IN REQUIRED. CALL 233-7056. 
meals, and hourly bonus. KITCHEN AND FINISHED ROOM SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI hiag Applicants must have dependable IN BASEMENT. LEASE CLUB. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306

transportation. Call277-7744 for REQUIRED THROUGH 5/31/91. VISA & MASTERCARD 
interview appointment. $720/MO. $600 SECURITY. ACCEPTED. STEPHANIE PORTER and DO YOU WANT TO BOOGIE??!!! CONTACT TAMMI AT 232-1242. JENNIFER BENNING: 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

STOP BY FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED 
I need student or GA's THEODORESWelcome to ND and Farley. I'mforMICHIGAN and MIAMI SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK THURSDAY, FRIDAY very excited about my two newest

APTS. 273-9406. NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. Will pay big bucks!!!!!!! 
AND SATURDAY 

FOR SALE 
"little sisters." here's to a great
CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717-CALL TOM 271-8245 

Enjoy the atmosphere, good year ... monica 
297-2192.
SliTER NEEDED TWO 

friends and your favorite AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A 
INEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!! 

tunes by your favorite DJs. WEEK. MUST DRIVE, 
SEIZED CARS, trucks, 
FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL !sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. or! THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 
boats, 4wheelers, 
PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR !stud. =O.k. Older bro + sis !!1!11 ITS GREEN ITS GREEN KNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­
MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON coming for 1st game $$3022!
8380 

motorhomes. by FBI, IRS, 
Green ND shirts to wear for the 
9/21 & 9/22. $119.50/PERSON NEED A QUICK AND TIMELY 
DEA. Available your area 
Michigan game... orders being 
BUT DBL. OCCUPANCY GETAWAY?? taken NOW thru August 31 See Needed: Assistant coaches for 
now. Call (805) 6 82<7555 
REQUIRED. CALL 233-7056. HEAD TO CHICAGO FOR THIS your REP for details. 
local age group swim team 2 to 4 

SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI SATURDAY!! DON'T MISS OUT! 
evenings per week. Call 233-1366. 

Ext. C-2743. 
3 Miami tickets desperately DRIVERS NEEDED. $7-10/HR. VISA & MASTERCARD DEAL 
CLUB. WINDY CITY SHUTILE IS A 
needed: Kathy x2567 

COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
NIGHTS. DOMINO'S PIZZA, 271-ACCEPTED. AT 8 DOLLARS FOR THIS FIRST 
19" COLOR TV, TWO 
I need 2 Student Michigan SEMESTERS $110, ONE ''THE SHIRT' -on sale now! 
0300. TRIP, ITS REALLY QUITE A 
WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn tickets!!!!! STEAL
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO JUST DO IT 
State.Call316-775-6143 alter $$$$$$$$$$$$ GET YOUR TICKETS AT THE SEMESTERS $110, ONE 
6pm. Leave message. PLEASE Call Anne 

Chicago Tribune carriers LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
SEMESTER $80. 
at 288 0597

needed for immediate campus INFORMATION DESK 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-ND · MICHIGAN GAME 
morning delivery. TELL THEM PAUL SENT YOU 
5959. wear ''The Shirt" ORDER NOW
BUY OR TRADE 2 OR 4 Need 2 Miami GA's (LAST DAY FOR ORDERS IS Some collecting required 
PURDUE,STANFD,AF GA TIX Call Matt x3630 FRIDAY, AUGUST 31) and dependibility a must. 
FOR MICH,MIAMI,PSU. CALL Call City News Service, $5 HAIRCUTS!!!! 
Okay, any student tickets for ASHLEY 283-4046. 
232-3205. 
REGULAR & ROTC

REPOSSESSED VA &HUD 
Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 

HOMES available from governmen 
please call Paige at x2980. This is VITO'S BARBERSHOP GRAD STUDENTS serious.

for $1 without credit check. You
-•• ANYONE NOT BUYING ••• 

HELPIIII 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST
FACULTY MEMBERS ••• STUDENT TICKETS ••• 
repair. Also lax delinquent 
Parents' first and last chance SOUTH BEND Purchase "The Shirt" for $8 at the I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR to see an NO football game. 

foredosures. Call (805) 682-7555 
SUB Secretary's Desk, 2nd floor APPLICATION #289-9654 Desperately need 2 GA's and one 233-4767
Ext. H-3269 for repo list yow area. 
LaFortune.
student ticket for MICHIGAN. please call AMY (R.) IF YOURE NOT USING YOUR 

All Graduate Student 
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO 272-8954 FOOTBALL TIX APPLICATION WE'RE BACK (and they're notWelcome back celebration SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN 
TWIN BED LOFT FOR SALE. CALL JERRY X2379 happy to see us!)
Friday, August 31, 8:00PM
HISTORIC PARK AVE. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
PROFESIONALL Y MADE AND The91 ChEgsWilson Commons' LoungeNEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 READY TO ASSEMBLE. $100.00 
"The worst class in 25 years" MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + 
289-8404 AFTER 5PM. WANTED ''The worst class in 15 years" 
ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR 1/2 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO "The worst pertormance in recentBISEXUAL? Student Discussion 239-7207 OR 289·3668. 
One set of season student tickets. 

HELP!! Groups meeting weekly. For time memory"
REFRIGERATORS for sale, Will pay for tickets plus 50.00 to 
NO MORE ORANGES! $40-$120. Will deliver. Also Mace, you. Call Doug at x1245. 
$7. 234-0515 and place call Mike 237-0788. 
Will trade 2 MICHIGAN, 2 Air Force summer. Mummy and Daddy say GA's, AND/OR$ for 2 MIAMI GA's. 
Dear Skip, I missed you this
OVERSWAND 

---CRUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. 
BEST BUY ON CAMPUS 
Money is no object/parents will pay "hello". I may be busy getting •MUST SEE• Desperately need 2 GA's for ND vs
Many posltlclts. 

big bucks --call Mike at x1802 REFRIGERATOR· $45 Penn State. Willing to pay big $11 settled into the dorm and getting a 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI jump on my studies, but I know I 

Work Meltlt-Hat M01th. 

RECLINER CHAIR PURDUE,MICHIGAN ' will see you at LaFortune Open sdgfEXCELLENT CONDITION-I YR. Call 283-4321. 
Clll (lOS) 612·7SSS 
STANFORD, OR PH.iN STATE House on Friday, Sept 7. Love,ONLY $75 CALL X2051 

PLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. Valentines
Ext. 5-1912 
Buffy

•MUST SELL• ------------. 
----------._.., 
Thursday, August 30, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Scoreboard 

BASEBALL STANDINGS .. SPORTS CALENDAR RESULTS 
Thursday, August 30 Saturday, September 1 

AMERICAN LEAGUE No sports scheduled. Men's soccer vs. DAYTON, t p.m.
East Division Volleyball at Washington State Invitational Men's Soccer
w L Pet Gl LtD Streak Boston 72 57 .558 z-8-2 Won 6 Friday, August 31 Notre Dame t, Central Michigan 0 (Exh.) 
Toronto 67 64 .5tt 6 2-8 Wont Sunday, September 2 Detroit 60 69 .465 t2 6-4 Lost t 
Volleyball at Washington State Invitational 

Milwaukee 60 69 .465 t2 z-7-3 Lost t Women's soccer vs. N.E. MISSOURI, t p.m. Baltimore 59 69 .46t t2t/2 z-3-7 Lost 5 Cleveland 59 70 .457 t3 3-7 Lost3 New York 56 73 .434 t6 z-7-3 Won4 
TRANSACTIONS 

West Division w L Pet Gl L10 Streak BASEBALLOakland 80 48 .625 z-5-5 Wont American League CINCINNATI BENGAL5-Signed Reggie Rembert, 
Chicago 73 55 .570 7 z-4-6 Lost5 SOCCER
BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-claimed Brian DuBois, wide receiver.

Texas 66 63 .5t2 t4t/2 z-5-5 Lost2 Major Soccer League
-pitcher, from the Detroit Tigers' waiver list. INDIANAPOLIS COLT5-Piaced Eric Dickerson,

California 65 65 .500 t6 5-5 Won4 ST. LOUIS STORM-Named Ron Sadler 
OAKLAND ATHLETICs-Acquired Harold Baines, running back, on the non-football injury list. 

Kansas City 64 64 .500 t6 z-7-3 Lost t accountant-ticket manager and Joe Berardino
outfielder, from the Texas Rangers for two players KANSAS CITY CHIEF5-Piaced Deron Cherry, 

Seattle 63 66 .488 t7t/2 3-7 Wont sales representative. Announced that Denny
to be named later. safety, on the physically unable to perform reserve

Minnesota 59 7t .454 22 4-6 Won3 Vaninger will assume the duties of director of youth 
SEATILE MARINERs-Signed Ken Griffey, list. Placed Ernest Thompson, running back, on 

development. NATIONAL LEAGUE COLLEGE
outfielder. injured reserve. Waived Angelo Snipes, Craig TORONTO BLUE JAY5-0ptioned Rob McDonald, Hudson, Eric Thomas and David Ward, 

East Division ARIZONA-Announced Arnulf Mobley, linebacker, 
pitcher, to Syracuse of the International League. linebackers; Bryan Barker, punter; Ken

w L Pet LtO Streak was ruled academically ineligible for the t990 Pittsburgh 75 54 .58t z-5-5 Wont football season. 
National League Hackemack, defensive end; Kevin Harmon, Bren CHICAGO CUBs-Activated Rick Sutcliffe, pitcher, Lowery and Michael Owens, running backs; Will

New York 7t 55 .563 2t/2 z-5-5 Wont CALIFORNIA, PA.-Named Rob Kettle men's and Montreal 67 62 .5t9 8 z-5-5 Lost t women's soccer coach.
from the 60-day emergency disabled list. Optioned Hill and Johnny Thomas, safeties; Tony Jeffery and Dave Pavlas, pitcher, to Iowa of the American Tim Ware, wide receivers; Lee Johnson, defensive

Chicago 6t 67 .477 t3t/2 4-6 Lost t CANISIUs-Named Raymond Hennessy assistant Philadelphia 59 67 .468 t4 t/2 3-7 Lost t baseball coach.
Association. lineman; Rod Jones, tight end; Ken Karcher, HOUSTON ASTR05-Activated Glenn Davis, first quarterback; Mike Kiselak, guard; and Bjorn

St. Louis 59 70 .457 t6 4-6 Wont DARTMOUTH-Named Mike Brass strength and 
baseman, from the 2t-day disabled list. Nittmo, placekicker. 

West Division conditioning coach and Steve Plisk assistant 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE5-Agreed to terms with NEW YORK JETs-Activated Jim Sweeney, 

• w L Pet LtO Streak strength and conditioning coach. 
Len Dykstra, outfielder, on a three-year contract. center. Waived Irvin Smith, cornerback. 

Cincinnati 7 4 54 .578 6-4 Lost t FLORIDA STATE-Announced that Oliver BASKETBALL PHOENIX CARDINALs-Traded Rob A walt, tight 
Los Angeles 68 60 .53t 6 z-7-3 Won3 Strickland, defensive tackle, is academically 
National Basketball Association end, to the Dallas Cowboys for an undisclosed

San Francisco 67 62 .5t9 7t/2 6-4 Wont ineligible for this season. San Diego 60 67 .472 t3t/2 z-5-5 Lost t 
CHARLOTIE HORNETs-Named Tom Nissalke draft pick. Claimed Elston Ridgle, defensive end, 

assistant coach. on waivers from the Seattle Seahawks. MANHATIAN-Named Liam Frawley graduate Houston 58 72 .446 17 5-5 Wont 
HOUSTON ROCKETs-Announced the retirement SAN DIEGO CHARGERs-Waived Elliott Searcy, assistant trainer. of Ray Patterson, president, effective September t. wide receiver. MONMOUTH, N.J.-Named Jeff Stapleton 
Atlanta 50 79 .388 24 t/2 5-5 Lost t 
z-denotes first game was a win UTAH JAZZ-Agreed to temns with Walter Palmer. Canadian Football League assistant director of athletics and Rich Bruer
AMERICAN LEAGUE Tuesday's Games 
center, on a two-year contract. EDMONTON ESKIM05-Released Kevin Clark, academic counselor. Continental Basketball Association defensive back. RAMAPO-Announced the resignation of Steve 
New York tt, Baltimore 3 CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER BULLETs-Named WINNIPEG BLUE BOMBERs-Transferred James Grube, assistant athletic director, track and field 
Boston 6, Cleveland 5 Milwaukee 6, Toronto 2 
Steve Cahl assistant coach. West, linebacker, to injured list. and cross-country coach. Promoted Tom Carney to FOOTBALL HOCKEY volleyball coach. Named Tom Bisceglia assistant Minnesota t2, Chicago 6 National Football League National Hockey League football coach and ·men's head tennis coach. 
California 2, Texas 0 Oakland 3, Kansas City 2 
ATLANTA FALCON5-Piaced Galand Thaxton, NEW JERSEY DEVILs-Named Doug Sulliman WYOMING-Announced Dorell Drake, defensive 
linebacker, on injured reserve. assistant coach. tackle, has qutt the football team.
Seattle 4, Detroit 3 
Wednesday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Toronto 7, Milwaukee 3 U.S. OPEN New York 3, Baltimore 2 Boston 7, Cleveland t Minnesota 6, Chicago t 
Kansas City at Oakland, (n) Results Wednesday of the $6.35 million U.S. Open Doubles Raffaella Reggi, Italy, del. Nathalie Herreman, Detroit at Seattle, (n) tennis tournament held at the USTA National ArstRound France, 6-t, 4-6, 7-6 (7-5). Texas at California, (n) Tennis Center (seedings in parentheses): Royce Deppe, South Africa, and Bret Garnett, Sandra Wasserman, Belgium, del. Andrea Farley, 
Thursday's Games 
Men Columbia, S.C., del. Fredrick Nilsson and Tobias Cincinnati, t-6, 6-3, 6-3. Chicago (McDowell t 0-6) at Minnesota (West 7-8), t :t5 p.m. Singles Svantesson, Sweden, 6-2, 6-7 (6-8), 6-3. Csilla Bartos, Switzerland, del. Elise Burgin, Kansas City (McGaffigan 3-t) at Oakland (Stewart t7-t0), 3:t5 p.m. ArstRound Steve deVries, Suisun, Calif., and David Baltimore, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. New York (laPoint 6-9) at Baltimore (Harnisch 9-9), 7:35p.m. Veli Paloheimo, Netherlands, del. Jeremy Bates. MacPherson, Australia, del. Joey Rive, West Palm Silke Meier, West Gemnany, del. Claudia Porwik, Boston (Clemens t9-5) at Cleveland (S. Valdez 2-5), 7:35 p.m. Britain, 6-3, 7-5, 6·4. Beach, Fla., and Robert Van't Hot, Dallas, 4-6, 6-3, West Gemnany, 6-4, 2-6, 5-2, retired. Detroit (Tanana 6-7) at Seattle (Hanson t2-9), t0:05 p.m. Luiz Mattar, Brazil, del. Andres Gomez (5), 7-5. 
Second Rourid Only games scheduled Ecuador. 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Pat Galbraith, Tacoma, Wash., and Kelly Jones, Gabriela Sabatini (5), Argentina. del. IsabelleFriday's Games Amos Mansdorf, Israel, del. Broderick Dyke, San Diego, del. Michael Mortensen, Denmark, and Demongeot, France, 6-t, 6-t. 
New York at Boston, 7:35p.m. Australia, 3-6, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-0. Karel Novacek, Czechoslovakia, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4. 
Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere (9), Swttzerland, del. 
Toronto at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. Goran lvanisevic (t 5), Yugoslavia, del. Omar Rikard Bergh and Per Henricsson, Sweden, del. 
Debbie Graham. Fountain Valley, Calif., 6-0, 6-2. 
Detroit at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Camporese, Italy, t-6, 6-4, 6-t, 7-6 (7-3). . Ville Jansson, The Woodlands, Texas, and John Dinky van Rensburg, South Africa, del. SylviaBaltimore at Milwaukee. 8:35p.m. Jean-Philippe Fleurian, France, del. Todd Martin, Sobel, Miami, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-3). 
Hanika, West Gemnany, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. 
Chicago at California, t 0:35 p.m. Lansing, Mich., 7-6 (8-6), 6-3, 7-6 (7-5). Oliver Delaitre, France, and Marc Rosse!, 
Helena Sukova (tt), Czechoslovakia, del. LauraTexas at Oakland, t0:35 p.m. Christo van Rensburg, South Africa, del. Martin Switzerland, del. Doug Eisenmann, Santa Anna, Garrone, Italy, 6-3, 6-0. 
Kansas City at Seattle, t0:35 p.m. Strelba, Czechoslovakia, 7-6 (t0-8), 7-6 (7-0), 6-2. Calif., arid Matt Lucena, Chico, Calif .. 6-4. 6-4. 
Martina Navratilova (2), Aspen, Colo., del. Clare 
Patrick McEnroe, Oyster Bay, N.Y., del. Jeff 

Wood, Britain, 6-0, 6-4. 
Tarango, Manhattan Beach, Calif., 6-3, 6-4, t-6, 2­

NATIONAL LEAGUE Jason Sioltenberg and Todd Woodbridge, Judith Wiesner (t5), Austria, del. Kimiko Date,
6,7-5.

Tuesday's Games Australia (t6), del. Kelly Evernden, New Zealand, Japan, 7-6 (7-5), 6-1. 
Second Round

Cincinnati 2, St. Louis t and Nicolas Pereira, Venezuela, 7-6 (7-3), 6-7 (5-Halle Cioffi, Loudon, Tenn., del. Natalia 
Montreal 5, San Francisco 2 Kevin Curren, Austin, Texas, del. Malivai 7), 6-t. 
Medvedeva, Soviet Union, 7-5, 6-2. 
Washington, Swartz Creek, Mich., 7-5, 7-6 (7-5), 6­

New York 4, San Diego 0 Leila Meskhi, Soviet Union, del. Natalia Zvereva Los Angeles 5, Philadelphia t 4. 
Sergi Bruguera and Tomas Carbonell, Spain, del. (t4), Soviet Union, 6-4, 6-0. Atlanta 9, Pittsburgh 0 
Jaime Yzaga, Peru, del. Thierry Champion, France, 

Gianluca Pozzi, Italy, and Balasz Taroczy, West Robin White, San Diego, del. Julie Halard, France, Chicago 5, Houston 2 
6-t' 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Germany, 2-6, 6-0, 6-4. 6-4, 6-3. 
Paul Annacone, East Hampton, N.Y., del. Martin 

Wednesday's Games 
Katia Piccolini, Italy, del. Sandra Cecchini, Italy, 4­Late Games Not Included 
Jatte (t6), Argentina, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, 6-2. 

Women 6,7-5,6-4.St. Louis 9, Cincinnati t 
Ivan Lend! (3), Czechoslovakia, del. Michael Stich, 

Singles Larisa Savchenko, Soviet Union, del. Carrie San Francisco 6, Montreal 5 West Gemnany, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, 6-3. 
RrstRound Cunningham, Livonia, Mich., 6-4, 6-4. 
San Diego at New York, (n) Fabrice Santoro, France, del. Jim Grabb, Tucson, Katerina Maleeva (7), Bulgaria, del. Magdalena Mary Joe Fernandez (8), Miami, del. Miriam Los Angeles at Philadelphia, (n) Ariz., 7-6 (7-0), 6-4, 7-6 (7-5). 
Maleeva, Bulgaria, 6-3, 6-t . Oremans, Netherlands, 6-4, 6-t. 
Pittsburgh t 0, Atlanta 0, 7 innings, rain Jakob Hlasek, Switzerland, del. Tommy Ho, Winter Manon Bollegraf, Netherlands, del. Gretchen Shaun Stafford, Gainsville, Fla., del. Helen Kelesi, Haven, Fla., 6-3, 6-2, 7-6 (7-4). 
Houston t, Chicago 0 Magers, San Diego, 6-2, 6-1. Canada, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
John McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., del. David Engel, Thursday's Games . 
Karin Kschwendt, Luxembourg, del. Lisa Raymond,
Sweden, 6-2, 6-3, 7-5. 
DoublesSan Francisco (LaCoss 4-2) at New York (Fernandez 8-t 0), 7.35 p.m. Wayne, Pa., 6-2, 6-3. 

David Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn., del. Jonas 
ArstRound Svensson, Sweden, 6-4, 7-5, 7-5.

Los Angeles (Martinez t5-6) at Philadelphia (Combs 6-9), 7:35 p.m. Alexia Dechaume, France, del. Federica 
St. Louis (Oliveras 0-0) at Atlanta (Giavine 6-tt), 7:40p.m. Bonsignori, Italy, 6-2, 6-1. Steffi Graf, West Germany, and Lori McNeil,
Todd Witsken, Carmel, Ind., del. Alexander Volkov, 

Elna Reinach, South Africa, del. Sabine Hack, Houston, del. Samantha Smith and Hallas ter Riel,Cincinnati (Jackson 4-2) at Chicago (Bielecki 6-8), 8:05 p.m. 
Soviet Union, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3. 

Netherlands, 6-2, 6-t.
West Germany, 6-t, 6-2.

Only games scheduled 
Alex Antonitsch, Austria, del. Carl Umberger, 

Friday's Games Maria Strandlund, Sweden, del. Beverly Bowes, Linda Barnard and Dinky van Rensburg, South 
Australia, 6-t, 5-7,6-4,6-3. 

San Antonio, 4-6, 6-t, 6-2. Africa, def. Regina Rajchrtova, Czechoslovakia, Cincinnati at Chicago, 3:20p.m. 
Thomas Muster (6), Austria, del. Anders Jarryd, Los Angeles at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
Monique Javer, Britain, del. Jennifer Santrock, and Andrea Temesvari, Hungary, 6-3, 6-t. 
Sweden, 6-4, 6-3, 4-6, 6-t. 

Plano, Texas, 6-t, 6-1. Nicole Provis, Australia, and Elna Reinach, SouthSan Francisco at New York, 7:35 p.m. 
Emilio Sanchez (7), Spain, del. Jim Pugh, Palos 

Africa (8), del. Robyn Field, South Africa, andSan Diego at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
Verdes, Calif., 6-t, 6-2,6-2. 

Claudine Toleafoa, New Zealand, 6-t, 6-0.
St. Louis at Atlanta, 7:40p.m. 
Andrei Chesnokov (tO), Soviet Union, del. Shuzo Pittsburgh at Houston, 8:35 p.m. 
Matsuoka, Japan. 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-t, 6-3. 

BURNS PARTY SHOP 

Washington Hall 
University ofNotre Dame 
FUNDRAISING 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219) 239-5956

RENTAL 
Washington Hall Job Openings
EQUIPMENT 
We have a large assortment of equipment to suit every fundraising need: 
Two student employment positions are open. 
• 
Cotton Candy Machines • Snow Cone Machines 

• 
Hot Doggers • Barbeque Grills 


• Student workers at Washington Hall work 
• Popcorn Machines •Roasters 
10 hours per week, evenings and weekends. 
• Griddles • Assorted/Logo Balloons 
• Technical Theatre experience is a plus. 
• 
Pop Coolers •Dunk Tank 

• 
Deep Fryers • Souvenir (T-shirts, etc) 


• Knowledge of Macintosh computer and 
programs: Word, PFS:File, FileMaker II, Excel, and PageMaker a plus. 
*Choice of FREE DELIVERY or 10% discount 
Bums Party Shop 832 W. Mishawaka Ave. (Comer of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 

Interested students should contact Tom Barkes at Washington Hall or call239-5956. 
259-4807 259-2833 
page 12 
CEO retires from position with ESPN 
NEW YORK (AP) -Roger Werner, who solidified ESPN's dominant role in cable televi­sion by acquiring rights to ma­jor league baseball and retain­ing the network's contract with the NFL, quit Wednesday as president and chief executive officer. 
Werner will become president and CEO of Prime Ventures Inc., a new company being formed by Bill Daniels, who has interests in several regional ca­ble networks. 
No successor was named by ESPN, an 11-year-old venture that was one of the first major steps into cable television. The network, which has 56 million subscribers, is 80 percent owned by Capital Cities-ABC and 20 percent by RJR Nabisco. 
The 40-year-old Werner, who joined ESPN in 1982 as a senior vice president, became presi­dent of the network on Aug. 17, 1988, succeeding Bill Grimes. 
Herb Granath, president of 


Cap Cities video enterprises and  AP Pholo  
chairman of ESPN.  said that  Former Oklahoma football players Nigel Clay (center) and Bernard Hall  
Werner was not fired and left  are led to the Cleveland County Jail in November after being found  
on his own. Both Granath and  guilty of first degree rape.  Problems continue for Oklahoma  as  
Werner said money was not an  widespread possession of firearms on campus was reported.  

---------------------~-~ ~--....... 
Thursday, August 30, 1990 
Former QB points finger at Sooners 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) -A Thompson said coaches, in­former Oklahoma quarterback cluding former head coach serving time for cocaine viola­Barry Switzer, rarely checked 
tions says guns and drug usage rooms or exercised oversight in were common sights during his the dorms, and several players stay at the school's athletic used or sold illegal drugs. dorm. Switzer, who released his own 
"If you had toured the play­book last week, said recently ers' rooms in Bud Hall, you that he puts no stock in any­might well have thought your­thing Thompson says. He said self in an armory," Charles Thompson's book was written Thompson says in published solely to make money. excerpts from his soon-to-be Athletic Director Donnie released book "Down and Duncan, in a recent radio inter­Dirty: The Life and Crimes of view, said Thompson's book Oklahoma Football." would likely be "trash," and 
"There were handguns, hunt­said he would not read it. He ing rifles and shotguns all over said no merit could be found in the place." a book written by a convicted 
An excerpt of the book, co­drug dealer. authored by Allan Duncan, however, said he Sonnenschein, is printed in the would probably read Switzer's October issue of Penthouse book, "Bootlegger's Boy." magazine. The book is being Mter the wave of incidents in published by Carroll and Graf. the athletic dorms in spring 
Thompson, serving a two­1989, which included the rape year federal prison term in of a woman for which two Texas on a conviction of con­players were later convicted, spiracy to distribute cocaine, the university created provi­says crimes, including the sions designed to tighten over­shooting of a player, that sight of the dorms. The plagued the football program changes included a temporary in 1989 were accidents waiting halt on female visitation and to happen. nightly security patrols. 
issue but would not comment if r----------------------------------------------------1
equity ownership was. 
They also denied that losses in the baseball package were the reason for Werner's depar­ture. ESPN said it will lose be­tween $30 million and $40 mil­lion this year after projecting a $31 million loss. 
"It has nothing do to with dissatisfation I have with ESPN," Werner said. "We were upfront anticipating losses on baseball. There are no sur­prises on the baseball losses. That is not a factor in my deci­sion to leave." 
Daniels owns a majority of Prime Ticket; a Los Angeles­based network, and has minor­ity shares of Home Sports Entertainment (Texas), Prime Sports Network (Denver-Salt Lake City), Sunshine Network (Florida). Prime Sports Network Midwest (Indianapolis) and Prime Sports Network Upper Midwest (Minneapolis). 
Granath said Cap Cities had had discussions about acquir­ing interests in regional sports networks, including those owned by Daniels, but that nothing was imminent. 
On Jan. 5, 1989, ESPN agreed to a $400 million, four-year contract with baseball that be­gan this season. The network's coverage is now dominated by baseball for half the year, with single games on Wednesday and Sunday and doubleheaders on Tuesday and Friday. A total of 1 7 5 games each season are being shown. 
Last March, the network re­tained its rights to eight Sunday night NFL games each season, but the price went up from $150 million from 1987­89 to $450 million for 1990-93. 
Granath said that profits for ESPN would be down slightly this year, but that was antici­pated because of the baseball startup costs. 

DRIVE STDA~IIr
INDIANA."., 

MovelOyears aheadof the class. 



The new HP 48SX and a free 'library card' can get you there. 
.-:.821 l~atri"J ~J n T 
· [ 0•0 -K~r'lo 1 I 
P-, V I 

With over 2100 built-in functions, our 
new HP 48SX Scientific Expandable 
calculator takes a quantum leap into 
the 21st century. Buy an HP 48SX 
between August 15 and October 15, 1990, and HP will send you a free HP Solve Equation Library card (a 
$99.95 retail value). 
The plug-in application card alone contains more than 300 science and engineering equations, as well as the periodic table, a constants' library, and a multi-equation solver. It's like having a stack of reference books right at your fingertips. 
The HP 48SX calculator is so advanced, it will change the way you solve prob­lems forever. ·It integrates graphics with calculus, lets you enter equations the way you write them, and does automatic unit management. 
Check your campus bookstore or HP retailer for HP's range ofcalculators and special back-to-school offers. Then check out the calculators that are years ahead oftheir class. 
There is a betterway. 
Ff/fl'l HEWLETT 
II.!~ PACKARD 

---~---­-~­ --------------------------------------~----~------------------------------·  
Thursday, August 30, 1990  The Observer page 13  

riffey joins son in Seattle 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Jr., 20, the Mariners' """"rT·m<T center fielder the past asons, attended a me news conference his father before 
sday night's game be­with Detroit. 
The father-son duo then took batting practice. 
The younger Griffey bantered with his father but said nothing to reporters. 
Griffey, an 18-year major league veteran, was placed on waivers Friday by the Cincinnati Reds for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. He cleared waivers Wednesday morning, making him a free agent. 
Griffey publicly thanked Reds owner Marge Schott "for the opportunity to let this happen." 
He also thanked former Reds manager Pete Rose for bringing him back to Cincinnati in 1988 after he was released by Atlanta. 
Griffey initially retired Aug. 2 because the Reds needed a roster spot. But he asked for, and received, his release from the Reds last Sunday. 
Griffey will wear No. 30 with the Mariners. His son wears No. 24. 
To make room for Griffey on 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! 
Pizza Party at Barnaby's on Grape Rd., 5:30-8:30, Thursday, August 30. 
$4 All you can eat! Be There! 

their roster, the Mariners placed stopper Mike Schooler on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to Saturday. Schooler, who has 30 saves, has been diagnosed with weak­ness in the back of his right shoulder and has been put on a two-week exercise program to 
strengthen it. 
When he left Cincinnati, Griffey was hitting .206 in 46 games. He had 13 hits, includ­ing a homer and two doubles, in 63 at-bats. 
He has a lifetime average of .296 with 148 home runs, 832 RBis and 200 stolen bases in 2,046 games. 
He was selected to three National League All-Star teams, in 1976, 1977 and 1980. He was a member of Cincinnati's "Big Red Machine" that captured the World Series in 1975 and 1976. 
Griffey Jr. had a .306 batting average with 18 homers and 62 RBis entering Wednesday night's game. He was eighth in the AL in batting and led the league with 152 hits. 
Seattle manager Jim Lefebvre said the elder Griffey would be asked to contribute down the stretch. 
"A lot of people are going to look at this as a dog and pony show," he said. "It's not going to be that way. He's going to play and he's going to make a contribution." 
Griffey said he wasn't ready to play Wednesday night, but Lefebvre said he would put him in the lineup as soon as he feels comfortable. 
"We're shooting for this weekend," he said. "It may be sooner than that." 
Anyone interested in trying out for the wrestling team should meet at Coach Fran McCann's office Friday at 
3:30 p.m. on the second floor of the JACC, near the pool. 
A women's tennis walk-on tournament will begin Friday. Anyone interested should call Maureen McNamara at 239-5149. 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to any­one in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The en­try fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 
p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
The first Off-Campus football practice will be today at 5 p.m. on Stepan Field for all interested off-campus students. If you have any questions or unable to make the first practice, call Tom Helms or Shannon Fish at 287-2218. 
Anyone interested in playing off-campus soccer, call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
Notre Dame Varsity Hockey -There will be a mandatory meeting for all those trying out for the team at 
4:30 p.m. Friday August 31st at the Football Auditorium in the JACC. . 
Tickets for the 1990 Irish football season go on sale next week for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Senior tickets go on sale Monday, Sept. 3 at 9 a.m. Juniors can get their tickets Tuesday; Law and graduate students can buy tickets Wednesday; sophomores on Thursday and freshmen on Friday. Issue hours are 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Students can purchase tickets for the 6 homes games for $69. Ticket applications will be mailed to students this week. 
Varsity softball tryouts will be Monday, Sept. 3 at 4 
p.m. in Loftus. Freshmen and first year players should come dressed for practice. 
Crew meeting for all prospective varsity women row­ers in tonight at 4:30 p.m. in the main circle. Any questions, call Meg at x2869. 
Notre Dame rugby meeting for anyone interested in playing for the N.D. rugby club should meet in the Haggar Hall auditorium on Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 5 p.m. No experi­ence or pads necessary. Call Deuce at x3502. 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
" Nobody has that significant
is currently looking for interested people to fill 

of an edge that she can relax,"the following position: 
he said. "Marilyn Cragin will push Choquette for the starting
is currently accepting applications for the 
spot at right front and the
following positions: 
Viewpoint Copy 

competition in the middle will be intense." 
Assistant News 
With everyone pushing each other to their maximum poten­tial and the experience of play­
Editor

Editors/Copy Editors 
All students are encouraged to apply. If 

ing a rugged schedule last year, this year's women's volleyball
interested, submit a 1-page personal statement 

season could be a very success­
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
ful campaign. Top twenty
and resume to Michelle Dall at The Observer statement by 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 3 to Kelley 

teams beware. 
office (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Friday, August 31.

Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
Give. 
A American Heart V Association 
/

©~lMJ~OJJ® 
Pol$·~fi?-lP~< ~auren 
· .. Pclqf:ory Store 
RETAIL HELP
®~~©[f{] 
The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking qual~ied individuals to fill the following 
~ [IDO~ lJ[f{]lb@~ 

SATURDAY 

positions for its Michigan City, IN 
Factory store: 
SEPTEMBER 1 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER 
FI'IPI' SALES ASSOCIATES
ST. JOSEPH BEACH 

Experience with bettermen's and 
women's apparel preferred. 
Excellent benefits provided. 
,EJ]>=\-·N-J:])O)Ip] ____ 
Salary commensurate with 
EJ~;-\Dl:J p;.\iTf'Y 
STARTS AT 11:00 AT THE BEACH 

experience.
STARTS AT NOON HALF MILE SWIM & 2 MILE RUN 
Please apply in person at:
CANOES FOR RENT REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA 
SAILING AND ROWING CLUB DEMONSTRATIONS 

!Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store
VARSITY-TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL BEACH GAMES AND SWIMMING 
Lighthouse Place
NON-VARSITY -TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL 
HOT DOGS & SODA 

101 Wabash Street Michigan City, IN
(MEN'S, WOMEN'S & MIXED IN BOTH DIVISIONS) 
page 14 

Mitchell's 30th HR defeats Montreal 
MONTREAL (AP) -Kevin Mitchell and Robby Thompson rallied San Francisco with solo home runs in the ninth inning against rookie Bill Sampen.Mitchell, who brought the Giants within 5-4 with a two-run homer in the sixth against Dennis Martinez, hit his 30th homer leading off the ninth. Two outs later, Thompson hit his 13th. 
Jeff Brantley (5-3) pitched two hitless innings for the win and Steve Bedrosian retired the Expos in order in the ninth for his 10th save. Rookie Larry Walker had three hits, including a two-run homer, and drove in three runs as Montreal built its 5-2 lead against Kelly Downs. 
Pirates 10, Braves 0 
Doug Drabek pitched a two­hitter and became the National League's first 17 -game winner and Barry Bonds matched his career-high with five RBis as Pittsburgh snapped a four­game losing streak in a rain­shortened game. 
Bonds hit an RBI single in the fourth inning, a two-run single in the sixth and a two-run dou­ble in the seventh. The game was called with two out in the top of the seventh. 
Drabek's career-high 17th victory -he is 17-5 -gave him an 11-0 record against the NL West. He struck out five and did not walk anyone. Drabek, 8-1 since the All-Star break, is 10-2 this season following Pirates losses. Atlanta rookie Steve Avery (3-8) was the loser. 

Astros 1, Cubs 0 
Chicago's Rick Sutcliffe held Houston to a run and two hits in five innings in his first ap­pearance of the season follow­ing shoulder surgery but came away a loser when Mark Portugal and Larry Andersen combined on an 11-hit shutout. 
Portugal (8-9) won his fourth consecutive game, scattering eight hits in seven innings and striking out nine, equaling his career high. Andersen pitched two innings for his sixth save. He yielded three hits. 
Blue Jays 7,
Brewers 3 
Tony Fernandez ended three Toronto slumps with one swing Wednesday when he hit a three­run homer to lead the Blue Jays over the Milwaukee Brewers 7­3. 
The Blue Jays hadn't homered in 11 games and had totaled only four runs in losing their last five games. During the los­ing streak they fell from one game behind the first-place Boston Red Sox to six back be­fore Wednesday's game. 
Jimmy Key (9-6) was the ben­eficiary of the Blue Jays' offen­sive awakening. 
"I was just lucky to be pitch­ing today," Key said. "It was good for the team." 
Thursday, August 30, 1990 

Key gave up six hits, striking out six and walking none in six innings. Only Paul Molitor, who hit a two-run homer, doubled and singled to go 3-for-4, gave him trouble. 
Duane Ward held the Brewers hitless for three innings for his 10th save. 
"Key pitched well, challenged hard in, got his breaking ball over," said Milwaukee manager Tom Trebelhorn. "Ward pitched fine, too. They pitched 


PHILADELPHIA (AP) 
National League president Bill 
White disputed Joe West's in­
terpretation of what White said 
about breaking up player fights 
and the umpire's handling of an 
ejection. 
West had said Tuesday that 
White, who met with the umpire 
earlier in the day in 
Philadelphia amid feuding be­
tween West and the 
Philadelphia Phillies, told him 
umpires "are not to become in­
volved in any more fights." 
White issued a statement in 
New York on Wednesday saying 
that only West was told not to . intervene, not other umpires. 
"In my meeting with Joe West 
yesterday, I told him that since 
he has been involved in a num­
ber of on-field incidents with 
players, he is no longer to 
physically touch a player," 
White said. "All other umpires 
are to continue acting as they 
have in the past." 
White attended the game 
West worked Tuesday night 
between the Los Angeles 
Dodgers and Philadelphia. The Phillies had criticized West for throwing Von Hayes out of a game in Los Angeles last week over a remark he heard Hayes make about another umpire. 

In his statement, White criti­cized West for ejecting Hayes, saying: "I also told Joe that I did not agree with his handling of the Von Hayes situation." 
But West, who worked Tuesday night's game at Veterans Stadium, told The Philadelphia Inquirer that White told him he handled the Hayes situation appropriately. West claims Hayes made a comment to umpire Harry Wendelstedt, though Hayes claims he was talking about the umpire to first-base coach John Vukovich. 
"At first, he thought it was unusual," West told the news­paper. "He didn't know that we eject players for comments they make to other umpires. Once I explained it all out, he told me I did the right thing." 
White met with Hayes, West, umpires union counsel Richie Phillips and Phillies manager Nick Leyva, general manager Lee Thomas and Vukovich. The Phillies' side was keeping mum on their talks with White, and Phillips did not immediately re­turn a phone call Wednesday. 
Thomas had called West ar­rogant and Leyva said West . was unprofessional and had a grudge against the Phillies. 
West had worked Phillies games against the Dodgers and New York Mets when fights broke out. In the Mets game, he lifted Phillies pitcher Dennis Cook during the brawl and threw him to the ground. 
White wasn't commenting Tuesday night on what he told West or Phillies representatives. 
"If they (players) want to fight, let them go kill each other. If it gets that out of hand, we'll call the National Guard," West said. 
"It's just a matter of forget­ting about what's gone on and getting on with it," Leyva said. 
Phillies fans weren't so willing to forget. When West was introduced Tuesday night as first-base umpire, they booed. 
better than we did." 

Paul Mirabella relieved Mark Knudson (10-7) with two out and two on in the fourth. He said Fernandez's homer was not hit very hard but it caught "a little jet stream that goes out that way." 
Boston 7, Indians 1 
Dana Kiecker shut out Cleveland on three hits for seven innings and Ellis Burks homered as the Boston Red Sox beat the Indians for their sixth straight win, all on the road. 
Wade Boggs had three hits for the Red Sox, who main­tained their six-game lead over second-place Toronto in the American League East. The six­game road winning streak is their longest since they won eighth straight road games in June 1986. 
Kiecker (6-6), a 29-year-old rookie, walked one and struck out six. He 12 retired the first 
12 batters before Candy Maldonado led off the fifth with a single. Maldonado singled home a run in the ninth against Rob Murphy. 
Mike Walker (1-4) took the loss, giving up five earned runs on 10 hits, nine of them singles, in 6 2-3 innings. 
Yankees 3, Orioles 2 
Matt Nokes and Kevin Maas homered on consecutive pitches in the sixth inning as the New York Yankees sent Baltimore to its fifth straight loss. 
Tim Leary (8-16) gave up one run on four hits in seven in­nings. He allowed only one bat­ter to reach base in the first five innings. 
Dave Righetti relieved to start the ninth and gave up pinch hit­ter Tim Hulett's two-out home run, but got his 29th save. 
1 
Trailing 1-0, the Yankees! took the lead in the sixth when Nokes hit a 1-0 pitch from Anthony Telford (1-1) over the right-field wall for his 11th homer. Maas followed by driv-' ing a breaking pitch into the right-field seats for his 16th home run. 
Twins 6, Chicago 1 
Mark Guthrie pitched a five­hitter and the Minnesota Twins turned four errors into four runs in the second inning to beat Chicago, the fifth straight loss for the White Sox. 
Chicago matched its longest 
losing streak of the season. The White Sox began the day 6 1/2 games behind Oakland in the American League West. 

APF'how Umpires such as Randy Marsh are free to break up fights betwee teams, National League president Bill White said Wednesday. 
Thursday, August 30, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 32 Be about to 61 Coeur d' --, happen Idaho city 
1 Dance of the 
36 Tops 62Hound

30's 38 Feel free to act 63 Edom5 Axlike tool 64 Kitchen gadget
41 Metal strap 

9 Timetable, for 65 Nashville
short 421n-(soto 
attraction
speak)

14 She gets what &&Incline 
she wants 43 Monogram of 15lpecac is one 
Atlanta's burner 

16 K.G.B. ancestor 44 A rhyme for DOWN credent
17 Bedouin 1 A lot 
chieftain 46 Money in the 2 Man's castle?
bank 3 Familiar follower 18 Lady C:-Japlin 

48 "--that I loved Caesar 19 Like a trireme 

ofet

20 Express 
less ...": Brutus 4 Treat a sore 

thoughts carefully 49 Work incentive throat 
5 Forster's "­with a View" 23 Hebrew letter 52 Keep cool when 

vexed 

25 Halley's--58 Hot and sticky 6 Part of a Blackmore title ©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
24 List dosing 
28 Part of a shoe 59 Official records All Rights Reserved 
7 Sectional 31 Porter or stout 60 Pier support a Greek letters 

9 Moves hastily 59 Afr. ruler 
10 Certain drawing

ACROSS ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
60 Augury

1 Muslim judge pencil
61 North Sea5 Mountains feeder9 Whit 

62 In addition ..:.:..f~=-F+==-1 12 Barely 28 Words before 45 Tremble 54 Acronym
13 Tyrant ldl 
63 Emcee Convy manages, with instant or 47 "-fidelis" originating in
14 Rebound II out" 
1949 .

uproar 17 -DOWN ~~W!Jii. 13 Celebrant in 29 Early film mogul 55 Galileo's 
16 Ordered 49 Digest, for short 
rock 50 On the move
1 Army off. June and family 
18 Soap plant birthplace
51 Virgil called it 
2 Asian river 21--hand 30 On the mother's
19 Like -of Ausonia 56 Its capital was 
bricks 3 Eating area -...=~~ (humbly) side 
Sus a 

4 India -33 "-Me," 1929 52 Wahine's dance
20 Numerical ~=+-=4-==-l 22 Actress Barrie prefix 5 Tick song 53 Hebrew dry 57 Enlist again 
and Hiller 21 Attraction 
6 Fernando or 34 Attention­measure 58 Gen. Arnold
1!:1JtJjjll 25 Moneyed

Lorenzo getting sound23 Nostril 
~ country singer?

7 Stem 35 Flock member
25 Alicante aunt 
26 Fished 8 Arias e.g. ;:+:..:.+::::+::-F.+=-8 26 City on the 37While's Answers to any three clues in this 28 Fall short 9 Manila hemp ~.,..+..'-+'-'-Allegheny forerunner puzzle are available by touch-tone 30 Ram: Br. 10 So long 1-=-1-=+=--1-'~ 27 Reagan Cabinet 39Call-in phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
33 -over 11 Fragrance member 40 Desist's partner minute). (meditated) 12 Darn 34 Deal with 15 C1te 36 Gr. portico 21 -Scott 37 Pep up 22 Gold paint 
35 "-only a
38 Sketch 24 " ... -and 
blunder of ..." 39 "Old -" (US hungry look" (Nietzsche)frigate) 26 Point in an 37 Permit
41 "A miss is as orbit good as -" 27 -Dame SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 42 Religious 28 Intense 
school: abbr. excitement 43 Maple genus 29 Ripens 44 Wading birds 30 Working 45 Cinnabar leisurely 46 Chin. weight 31 Practical old 
47 Easy mark style 52 Label 32 For -sake! 55 Court order 
34 Brood of 
B~~tJ3,[o)@[Z 31J(

56 Fry pheasants 57 Swing music 
G!UYl I'M 0'051 IN 58 Sidekick 
CHAKGE OF ME::DiUM T-5 HIRTS. How 5Ho\JLD I I<N ovJ ~.<.'fH:: R E TD FIND 

"nr: BooKs" 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Italiano . Chicken Patty Sandwich Beef Turnover w/ gravy Spaghetti Eggplant Parmesan • Fresh Vegetable Pasta Julienne Ham Deli Bar 
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 
5·8 
CALVIN AND HOBBES by Bill Watterson 

MOE KEEPS K~CJC.KING ~[ 
I SURt. fl.\11 Glf>.D iO\l'Rt: 1\t{ ... M-lb we~ RIGI-IT. 1-D&tS. \X)W\'-1 ~~ SC.\\OOl R)R t-.1() 
~\{\1-fl.I\L. AI-1\Mfl.LS SCMEIIMI:S C\Jtt.R. TOO. G<Y.)D PJ\~i. R8\<JJN. \-\E.'S !'<\'tAN .l~S\ 
....
FOR KICKS. 

"So once they started talking, I just remained motionless, taking in every word. Of course, it was just pure luck I happened to be a fly on the wall." 







By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
It was a very short scrim­mage, but Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz accomplished his objective ­get quarterback Rick Mirer some more work. 
Mirer, a sophomore from Goshen, completed 5-of-11 pass attempts for 92 yards in the brief scrimmage against the second-team de­fense at the conclusion of Wednesday's practice. 
"We tried to get some con­tinuity on offense and Rick Mirer some more work un­der fire," Holtz said. 
Mirer failed to complete six of his pass attempts, but some of those were catch­able. He had receivers open across the middle on two oc­casions but both of those balls were dropped. 
"We didn't catch the ball very well," Holtz said. "Our concentration was not very good, but we don't have to play tomorrow. This is the time we need to get those things done." 
Mirer is playing with a flak jacket like former quarter­back Tony Rice, something Holtz says he will not ap­preciate "until he gets blind­sided." One completion was about a 52-yard touchdown pass to freshman Lake Dawson. 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey Quarterback Rick Mirer, pictured here in April's Blue-Gold game, is beging tested "under fire" as the Michigan opener approaches. 
Mirer works under fire in football scrimmage 
middle when he lined up at tailback. 
Former Irish assistant coach Jim Strong is setting some big goals after taking over as the head coach at Nevada Las Vegas. The Rebels were 4-7 last season and have not posted a win­ning record since 1986. 
"Our number one goal is to have a winning season," he said during UNLV's recent media day. "Our secondary goal is to win the conference championship and to go to a bowl game. And our third goal is to become a top 20 team." Strong has 32 lettermen and many key starters back from last year's squad. Wide 
receiver Keenan McCardell says Strong's leadership is so good that he "could run 
for president; he's that strong of a leader." 
Holtz on the 1990 Irish: "This group really wants to win. Can we win? I don't know yet." 
Another look at the pre­season Associated Press poll shows that Notre Dame will meet seven of the top 25 teams, more than any Irish opponent. 
Purdue and Pittsburgh will play six teams in the top 25, 
Sports 

Thursday, August 30, 1990 
Former OU coach accuses ND of recruiting violations 
By FRANK PASTOR 
time I was considering a medi­Associate Sports Editor cal career, and I felt attending Notre Dame and being part of 
Notre Dame's tumultuous the academic environment here offseason took yet another turn were the best things I could do this week when former to prepare myself." University of Oklahoma head Said Notre Dame executive
coach Barry Switzer accused vice-president Rev. E. Williamthe school of offering running Beauchamp, C.S.C.: "I am famil­back Tony Brooks "improper 

iar with the recruitment of
inducements" during recruiting Tony Brooks, and I feel every

in his autobiography, 

aspect of it was handled com­"Bootlegger's Boy". 
pletely within NCAA rules."
Switzer said he intended to Brooks, from Tulsa, Okla.,

report the "apparent" violation feels Switzer was moved toto the NCAA but was told to make the allegations by thedrop the matter by Oklahoma memory of his failure td land

President Frank E. Horton. Tony Brooks 
the hometown boy. 

Horton feared that reporting of Notre Dame's interests. 
"He was upset because Ithe incident would "jeopardize "We couldn't 'match the offer' didn't go to Oklahoma," saidmajor contribution sources". because we felt that what had Brooks. "It is a great programIn his book, Switzer pointed apparently been promised to and all my friends went there,to the 1988 recruiting of Tony would constitute improper but I was looking for moreBrooks as an example of the inducements under NCAA re­than it had to offer at the time.
constant pressure to raise cruiting guidelines." 

"I didn't have any regretsmoney and its impact upon col­Brooks flatly denied the alle­when I made my decision to at­legiate athletics. Brooks had gations and stood by his deci­tend Notre Dame, and I don'tnarrowed his choices to Notre sion to attend Notre Dame. 
now. All Notre Dame has everDame and Oklahoma before de­"There was no one connected offered me is character." 
ciding to attend Notre Dame. with Notre Dame who made "It didn't take long to figure any illegal offers to me during 
out that we had no chance for the time I was being recruited," ••• Tony," said Switzer, "because said Brooks. Student season tickets go he began asking us whether we "When I made my choice to on sale Monday...Kickoff could make the same promises attend Notre Dame, I told the for the Sept. 15 opener with to him that he said had been other schools I was interested Michigan is set for 8 p.m. in made to him by representatives in more than football. At the Notre Dame Stadium. 
More experienced Irish volleyball team in position to compete with top-twenty foes 
By MIKE KAMRADT the challenge. Last year's 14-17 Freshman Julie Harris, Sports Writer team faced 20 teams that sophomore Jessica Fiebelkorn, achieved national rankings and and junior Chris Choquettte Irish baseball coach Pat ten that went to the NCAA should rack up most of the Murphy used to have a sign on tournament. blocks for the Irish. Leading his desk that read,"The will to "The physical part is the offensive attack will be hit­prepare to win is greater than there,"said Lambert. "So is the ters Alicia Turner (sophomore) the will to win." effort and the attitude. The big and Wagner. Turner compiled Women's volleyball coach Art question is the mental tough­sensational numbers as a Lambert couldn't agree more ness. We have to avoid the freshman. She led the team in with that statement. mental errors that cost kills with 396 and had an im­"If you ask 100 people if they matches." pressive 3.38 kill average. Her 
want to win, probably 99 will The three seniors of outside defensive skills can't go unno­say yes, they do want to win. Of hitters Tracey Shelton and ticed as she led the team with those 99 people, how many Colleen Wagner, as well as set­340 digs. 
want to pay the price to win? ter Amy White will be key. Wagner is recovered from a 
Maybe one-half. Then, maybe "The seniors have done a knee injury that slowed her last one-third of that number will great job. Tracey Shelton has season and should be a force really put in the effort needed been super." for the Irish attack. 
to win." Shelton came on strong last Before those hitters can get So coach, what about the year after not playing much in untracked, setter Amy White, in 1990 Irish? her previous years. In 100 her first year as the starting 
"This group has worked their games she compiled 244 kills, setter, will have to get them [butts] off," said Lambert. "This 255 digs and 22 service aces. the ball in hitting position. is the finest pre-season we've The Irish have traditionally "I've been really pleased with­ever had. Hopefully, it will been a strong defensive team Amy. She's had her ups and 
translate into wins on the including top ten rankings in downs," said Lambert. "We court." blocks in recent years. Shelton need her to be more consistent, 
The Irish will get their first will also be very important de­and if she does that, we'll be big test of the season this fensively. fine." weekend in the Washington "We're not as strong One thing that Lambert 
State Invitational in Pullman, [defensively] as we were last stresses is that no one on this Wash. Washington State, year, but we're working at it team is a star or sure starter. hard. With Shelton in the back
Mississippi and Montana will 

row the defense really comes
help the Irish see what kind of see IRISH I page 13 
alive."
season this can be. "We really don't know a lot about the teams we're playing 

ND soccer triumphant
this weekend," said Lambert. "Washington State lost a good amount of people. I don't even 

Special to The Observer showing us· a lot of good know the coach at Mississippi, 
things but we need some and Montana has everybody 
The Notre Dame men's time to mature." back from a team that finished 
soccer team ended its exhi­second in the Big Sky last 
bition season Wednesday by Notre Dame went 2-1 in year." 
defeating Central Michigan pre-season scrimmages, de­Although this weekend will be 
1-0 at Krause Stadium. feating Northern Illinois and a good indication to what the 
Kenyon Meyer scored the fortunes of the Irish will be, the 
match's lone goal nine min­Central Michigan and losing rest of the schedule is 
utes into the first period. 1-0 to seventh-ranked 
while Michigan, Stanford, 
tougher-much tougher. The 

"I think we played a little Indiana. The Irish open their 
One of the biggest offen­

Penn State and Southern 
Irish will face top ten foes 

better today than we have season at home on Saturday,
sive outbursts was a 70-plus 

California will play five of 
been playing," said Irish
Texas, LSU and Illinois. Notre
yard scamper by tailback 

those teams. Miami and 
head coach Mike Berticelli. Sept. 1, against MCC rival
Dame also meets top 25 Ohio
Rod Culver. Junior Raghib 

Tennessee have four of the 
State, Penn State, San Diego 

''I'm pleased with how we're 
Dayton. The match begins at
Ismail had two big gains, 

top 25 teams on their 
coming together. Kenyon
State, Minnesota and Colorado. 

1 p.m. at Krause Stadium.
one on a reverse and 

Meyer and Paul LaVigne are
schedule. 
Still the Irish should be up to
another on a run up the 



