

VOL. XXIII NO. 14 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990 
-
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Iraq gains support from Iran in call for 'Holy War' 
TEHRAN (AP)-Iran's spiri­tual leader offered more sup­port to Tehran's former arch­enemy Wednesday, calling for a holy war against Western forces gathered in the Persian Gulf since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei de­clared that Moslems who die fighting to oust Americans from the region would be martyrs bound for heaven. His speech in Tehran came amid reports Iran had agreed to help break the 
U.N. embargo of Iraq by 
Change in South Africa 
allowing in food and medical supplies in return for free Iraqi oil. 
A U.N. sanctions committee broke up Wednesday after be­coming deadlocked over what kind of food aid to allow into Iraq and occupied Kuwait. Most of the delegates want to allow shipments only to foreigners and children. Cuba and Yemen were calling for a broader resolution allowing in food to all civilians. 
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Ab­dul Al-Anbari, said interna­tional agencies would not be allowed into the country to dis­tribute any food shipments to foreigners. More than 400 Americans and Britons ­women and children stranded in Kuwait since the Iraqi inva­sion -left Baghdad and landed in London late Wednesday. Their Boeing 74'7 was char­tered jointly by the United States and Britain. Another flight carrying 10 ailing and elderly Italian men flew to 

Johnny Pitshwaini, Patrick O'Meara, Thomas Cornelius. and Peter Walshe (left to right) composed the panel of guests last night at "Recent Political Developments in South Africa," part of Africa Week activities. 
Evidence sought against U.F. killer 

GAINESVILLE. Fla. (AP) ­Edward Humphrey's history of mental illness, scarred face and fondness for knives helped make him stand out in the search for the methodical killer of five college students. 
But after nearly two weeks, authorities won't say for sure he's their man. 
Police called for National Guard help for an intensive search Thursday of 10 square miles near Humphrey's Gainesville apartment in a search for evidence. Police re­fused to reveal what they are looking for, but say the evidence they are seeking could rule out or confirm Humphrey as a suspect. 
While circumstantial evidence mounted against the 18-year­old University of Florida freshmen, even those close to him wondered about dramatic changes evident in the Eagle Scout and high school honor student. 
Humphrey has been in the Brevard County jail in lieu of $1 million bond since Aug. 30 on unrelated charges, including one that he beat his 79-year-old grandmother. He has not been charged in connection with the Gainesville deaths. 
Normally, police won't pub­licly identify a suspect before an arrest is made. But this is a hiiZh-nrofiJ.e case. 
"He's the one we've received the most information about," said police spokeswoman Lt. Sadie Darnell. "So I think that's 
why he became the focus  - 
rightly or wrongly."  
Police  searches  of  

Humphrey's Gainesville apart­ment and Indialantic home and car turned up six long-bladed knives, a butcher knife hidden in a milk jug, a fishing gaff and an advanced version of the fan­tasy game Dungeons and Dragons, The Orlando Sentinel reported Wednesday. It said po­lice are looking for videotapes or audio tapes recording the slayings, human flesh and pho­tographs of the victims. 
Police have refused to discuss such details. 
Humphrey enjoyed dressing up in military clothes, strapping on a knife and slipping into the woods around his apartment for nighttime pseudo reconnaissance maneuvers, neighbors told police. 
Neighbors said he bragged he was going to fight in Saudi Arabia and, three weeks before the slayings, he was found in a restricted area on the Patrick Air Force Base near his home, walking in circles and claiming to be a member of the elite 82nd Airborne Division. 
He was freed without being arrested, a base spokesman said. But two knives with 6-inch blades were confiscated from his car. 
"He's not the same person he used to be," said friend Jeff Deratany. "He's not Ed Humphrey." 
During high school in the up­scale coastal town of Indialantic -about 180 miles southeast of Gainesville Humphrey appeared to be the All-Ameri­can boy with looks, good grades, positions on the student council and junior varsity football team. He hung around with surfer buddies and dreamed of becoming a lawyer. 
Friends said the youngest of four children was emotionally affected by his parents' bitter divorce about five years ago. 
Two years ago, when Humphrey was hospitalized for several weeks with mononucle­osis during his senior year at Melbourne High School, he be­came severely depressed, telling friends he could "smell death." 
Soon after that, Humphrey either fell or jumped from a car traveling at 70 mph in Gainesville. 
The accident left him with a limp and months of therapy. stays in mental health pro­grams and a reliance on the drug lithium to control mood swin!ZS. friends said. 
Rome. 

Iraqi President Saddam Hus­sein has said he will allow for­eign women and children to leave Iraq and Kuwait but is restricting the movements of most Western men. 
The State Department said Wednesday that Iraqis in Kuwait were holding about 80 American hostages and were intensifying their search for Americans in an effort to find more human shields to deter a possible U.S. military strike in 
S. African Blacks still struggling, says panel 
the aftermath of Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. 
President Bush, in an address Tuesday night to a joint session of Congress, said his heart went out to the families of the American hostages, but he de­clared, "America and the world will not be blackmailed." 
Bush also prepared a video­taped message to Iraq's citizens Wednesday in which he said, "We have no quarrel with the 
see IRAQ I page 6 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Associate News Editor 

Blacks in South Africa are still struggling for their freedom despite the recent changes initiated by the South African government. 
This was the prevailing opin­ion of a panel of guests invited to speak on "Recent Political Developments in Southern Africa" Wednesday night. 
Although the struggle for freedom in South Africa has been a long one now turned old, the resolve of the South African people is not broken, and the fight will continue for as long as is necessary, according to Cornelius Thomas, Notre Dame graduate student and native of South Africa. 
"Our bondage has been legis­lated into a science so that we are forbidden to pursue life, liberty, or happiness," said Thomas. 
Speaking of the recent 
changes in South Africa, Thomas said that events have now become more complex than ever, more than people re­alize. 
Patrick O'Meara, director of African studies at Indiana Uni­versity of Bloomington, said that South African President F. 
W. de Klerk is driven more by political necessity than by altru­istic tendencies. 
According to O'Meara, the building internal and external political and economic pres­sures forced de Klerk to either change some aspects of South Africa, or risk political extinc­tion. 
"South African government had to contend with changing world and black consiousness, and with the economic power of sanctions," he said. 
"With the release of Nelson Mandela and the legalization of 
see S. AFRICA I page 4 


lucy Haske and Catherine Funston, nursing majors, study parts of a skeleton in order to learn the 200 bones in the human body and their markin s. 



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Life after N D: A guide for the perplexed 
So, what are you going to do for the REST OF YOUR LIFE? 
It's hard to believe that after about 21 years, four of them spent at this illustri­


ous instit~tion, manyChristine Walsh 
of us semors have no 

idea what we want to Business Editor 
do when we get out of college, let alone what we will be doing. 
Fear not brave upperclassmen, gradua­tion is still a good eight months away. Some of the greatest term papers have been writ­ten virtually overnight, and any deadline can be met with a prayer and the help of Fed­eral Express. Eight months is an infinite amount of time. 
The following are a few tips to ensure that you have a definite plan of action for­mulated by the time the dean (God willing) hands you that piece of paper in May. 
• 
Take the easiest course load possible, making sure that you get in the maximum 'one' pass/fail course. This keeps horne­work at a bare minimum, consequently maximizing time that can be spent 'networking' at Senior Bar. 

• 
Put off those standardized tests as long as you possibly can. This is your last foot­ball season and the last thing you want to be doing on the morning of the Stanford and Air Force games is take the LSAT and GRE. After all, that would also mean sacri­ficing the festivities of the nights before. If you actually intend to study for these bears, you may even have to stay in a few nights during the week as well. 

• 
Compile your resume when you have time to do it-say, sometime within the next decade. By the end of the '90's, most of the yuppie-types should be applying for early retirement, and the job market will be begging for individuals with a few extra years of 'life experience'. 

• 
Buy that interview suit when you get 


your tax refund in April. The money will be safely saved with Uncle Sam until then. You will be free to get that new ND sweatshirt and matching plaid shorts which you need to buy while you are still a student and can 
get to the bookstore more than once a year. Besides, you can borrow your roommate's sportcoat with the leather patches on the sleeves until April. 
• Roadtrip every (non-football) weekend possible (Fridays optional). All those fre­quent flyer miles you have accumulated over your four years at Notre Dame are probably due to expire, and once you actually get a job (gasp) you will not have any time to take a vacation. Besides, if you do interview in far away places, they fly you. 
I hope this clarifies and dispels any anxi­ety you may be having as senior year starts to move ahead at full speed. Remember, all is never lost-There's always Mummy and Daddy ... or another year at ND. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471
Today's Staff: 

News Systems
Sports

L. PeterYob Mike Kamradt Cesar Capella Catherine Kane Kevin Blot 
Scoreboard Accent Business
Scott Brutocao Shonda Wilson Sandra Wiegand Cristina Ortiz Caroline Clarke 
Production 
Paul Pearson 
Cheryl Moser 

Ann Buff Graphics Ad Design Bradford Boehm Kerry Clair 
VIewpoint

Maria Blohm Circulation
Allison lima Tony Paganelli Chris Hanely 
Kathy Welsh Amy Eckert Lu Medeiros Cara Eckman 
The Obaerver (USPS 599 2·•000) ia published Monday through Frie!av exc.pt during exam and vacation periods. The Obaerwr ia 1 member of the Auociated Prns. All reproduction 
rlllhlsart~. 
The Observer Iburs9ay, September 13, 1990 
r---------------------------,.......
-------------------------~ 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 13. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © E~~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

A Mexican-Argentinian Lunch will be held at the CSC today from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. All proceeds will go to the El Carnpito Day Care Center. 
The CSC Van Drivers seminar will be held on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. This class is mandatory for all who plan to drive the vans this year. If you took the class dur­ing 1989-90 there is no need to repeat it. The class will meet at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Beta Alpha Psi will hold a closed organizational meeting today in 222 Hayes/Healy at 4:15 p.m. Upcoming events will be discussed as well as sign-ups for projects. Attendance is mandatory. 
WORLD 

The highest-ranking officer accused in the murder of six Jesuit priests in El Salvador was relieved from his command more than a month before authorities acknowledged his implication, the judiciary said yesterday from San Salvador. The judiciary issued a statement giv­ing details on closed-door hearings held on the murder case. The statement raised questions as to when members of the high command learned of Col. Guillermo Benavides' alleged involvement in the massacre. President Alfredo Cristiani announced on Jan. 13 the names of the nine men -Col. Benavides, three lieutenants and five soldiers ­charged with the killings. The priests, their housekeeper and her daughter were slain before dawn on Nov. 16. 
NATIONAL 

A measure to require girls to obtain parental con­sent for an abortion flew through the Michigan Legisla­ture on Wednesday, but abortion-rights activists pledged a quick counterattack. The measure requires unmarried girls 17 and younger to have permission from a parent or a judge to get an abortion. It will become law 90 days after the last legislative session in December, taking ef­fect about April 1. The Legislature approved an identical bill earlier this year but Gov. James Blanchard vetoed it. 
CAMPUS 

The 1990 Dome received a first place certificate from the Columbia Scholastic Press Association, based on critique of the yearbook's concept, design, writing and photography as well as overall coverage. 
The CSPA is a national organization founded to serve collegiate journalism. The Dome has received several awards from the CSPA. However, it has been several years since it has been honored a first place certificate, according to 1991 editor-in-chief Madelleine Castellini. 
MARKET UPDATE 

1990 
NYSE Index 177.09 •.70 S&P Composite 322.54 .. 1.50 Dow Jones Industrials 2,625.74 .13.12 
Precious Metals 

Gold +$1.50 to$ 382.10/oz. Sliver+ 2.4¢ to$ 4.801/ oz. 

Former President Reagan, who once used the Berlin Wall to give the East bloc a rhetorical bashing, grabbed a hammer and chisel Wednesday to take a few real whacks at the remnants of the Cold War bar­rier. Onlookers applauded and shouted, "We love you Ronnie!" and, "Bravo, Ronnie!" as the 

79-year-old Reagan and his wife, Nancy, walked through the landmark Brandenburg Gate between East and West Berlin. 
The Hispanic American Organization would like to welcome all old and new members to its picnic over at Carroll Hall today at 6 p.m. 
NO Volunteers for the Homeless club will be holding an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the esc. Anyone interested in volunteering this semester at the South Bend Center for the Homeless should attend. Questions or problems call Steve Raymond 289-0002. 
Fireside Chat on the Crisis of the Post­Independence African State tonight at 7 p.m. at Theodore's in conjunction with Africa Week. 
An administrative law judge has denied Neil Bush's request to dismiss the government's case against him for alleged conflict of interest in his role as a former director of a collapsed Colorado thrift, the government disclosed Wednesday. Judge Daniel Davidson turned down Bush's petition in an order issued Tuesday. The Office of Thrift Supervision, which is seeking to bar the president's son from working for any bank or savings and loan, made Davidson's decision public late 
Wednesday. 
ALMANAC 
On September 13: 

eln 1788: The U.S. Constitutional Convention authorized the first national election, and declared New York City the temporary na­tional capital. eln 1922: The highest shade temperature on the earth's sur­face was recorded in El Azizia, Libya, which reached 136.4 de­grees Fahrenheit. eln 1943: Chiang Kai-shek be­came president of China. eln 1971: A four-day inmates' re­
bellion at Attica Prison in New 
York ended as police stormed the 
facility. The siege and final as­
sault claimed the lives of 32 pris­
oners and eleven prison workers. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
~~  ~XXX~  
FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Yesterday's  high:  
74  
Yesterday's  low:  
61  

Nation's high: 119 (Thermal, Calif.) Nation's low: 2 8 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: Today will be partly sunny and warm with a high in the mid-80's. There will be increasing clouds towards evening with a 50% chance of thunderstorms tonight. 
Thursday, September 13, 1990 
The ObseMn page3 
O'Hara discusses NCAA infractions 
By SHANNON RYAN and ROLANDO de AGUIAR News Writers 
"The drive behind NCAA rule violations is the combination of the basic competitiveness of sports, as well as the fact that this (college athletics) is big business," former NCAA Infrac­tion Committee member Patri­cia O'Hara said last night at the St. Ed's Hall Forum. 
"Big business" includes rev­enues generated by television contracts and post-season play, according to O'Hara. 
O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs and professor of law, defined the Infraction Committee's role as mediator between the NCAA Enforcement division and the institution accused of violations at NCAA hearings. The panel imposes discipline for major violations, defined by the NCAA 
• as "anything other than a limited recruiting advantage or inadvertent, accidental or isolated." During her two-year stint on the committee, O'Hara sat on the panel which judged the cases against the football pro­grams of the University of Houston and Oklahoma, and the basketball programs of Kansas and North Carolina State. O'Hara's last case was that of UNLV basketball. 
The harsh penalties levied against the Runnin' Rebels prompted her to state that she "went out with a bang, not a whimper." 
The NCAA was criticized harshly by the press for the UNLV decision, in which the basketball program was banned from NCAA tournament play in 1991. The punishment was incurred because UNLV did not comply with NCAA penal­ties, particularly the suspension of coach Jerry Tarkanian, which were imposed after a 1977 investigation. O'Hara de­fended the UNLV decision, cit­ing the logical, as well as the legal aspects of the case. 
"We did not pick a penalty di­rected to Tarkanian, but a penalty which we clearly had the power to impose," she said. 
O'Hara cited the UNLV case 

Overcharge a 'mistake' says Tribune 

By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
An unintentional overcharg­ing of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for the delivery of The Chicago Tribune will be corrected, according to City News Service of Michiana, Inc. 
"It was a mistake," said Gary Alwine, circulation manager at the City News Service (CNS). "There was nothing fraudulent intended." 
The apparent overcharge was discovered by ND junior Tony Yang. Yang was offered daily delivery of The Tribune, includ­ing Sundays, for around $29 by the Chicago newspaper's tele­marketing network. However, he received a bill shortly after­wards for $35.70. 
The rate quoted by The Tri­bune was 40 percent off the regular subscription rate, or $2.10 per week. Not including breaks, there are just over 14 weeks in the first semester, which would make the total ap­proximately $30. 
Flyers were distributed by CNS at the beginning of the semester which listed the rate for one semester as $35. 70 .. 
According to Alwine, CNS mistakenly believed that the semester was 17 weeks long, thus the higher rate. 
He said only a small percent­age of students have been billed already; and those that paid would be given the correct re­fund. Students who haven't been billed will be billed the correct rate, he added. 
Alwine said that his student branch manager from last semester left CNS and took an­other opportunity near the be­ginning of the fall semester, leaving CNS with little time to hire someone new and to straighten out ND distribution. 
"I feel very bad (about the mistake)," said Alwine. 
He said the new branch man­ager and six other student em­ployees have been working very hard since the start of the semester. However, they have had difficulty in getting into some of the dormitories each morning to deliver the paper. 
Alwine estimated that around 650 ND and 100 Saint Mary's students receive the Chicago Tribune through CNS. 
City News of Michiana is an independent news agency lo­cated on Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend. 
The Chicago Tribune offers 40 percent discounts to stu­dents at 47 universities, includ­ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, according to Janet Liebert, national operations manager at The Tribune. · 



as the most legally interesting that she encountered while part of the NCAA committee, due to the fact that it was appealed to the Supreme Court before being brought back to NCAA jurisdic­tion. However, the case brought against the University of Ken­tucky program was O'Hara's most difficult. 
"The public perceived that there were numerous violations brought against Kentucky, but there were really only two ma­jor violations," she said. 
The two violations she men­tioned included the shipment of $1,000 to prep standout Chris Mills, and the falsification. of The Observer/ Ken Osgood ACT scores of another Kentucky Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs and former NCAA recruit. Infraction Committee member, said the recent allegations of recruiting 
violations against the University are false. She also discussed 

Both of these allegations decisions on other college athletic programs in her lecture last night were seen as severe by the for the St. Ed's Hall Forum. NCAA, but the· penalty was re­duced because the university 
Liberian rebel factions clash cooperated with the investiga­tion. 
in capital after Doe's death 

In response to recent allega­ 
tions of ND recruiting violations  MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) - rage of shell, rocket and gun­ 
by former Oklahoma head  Fighters loyal to rebel leader  fire. They moved past the  
coach Barry Switzer, O'Hara  Charles Taylor advanced to  Spriggs Payne Airfield and John  
said, "In my capacity (vice­ within firing distance of the  F. Kennedy Hospital to City  
president of Student Affairs) we  presidential mansion Wednes­ Hall, a few hundred yards from  
view the allegations as baseless  day, filling a vacuum left by a  the executive mansion.  
and false ... we have interviewed  rival group's execution of Pres­ About 230 relatives and rem­ 
all concerned parties and have  ident Samuel Doe.  nants of Samuel Doe's army  
determined these allegations to  The British Broadcasting  were trapped inside the hilltop,  
be untrue."  Corp., quoting exiled Liberians  seven-story mansion.  
in the United States, said Taylor  Prince Johnson ­who earlier  
O'Hara attributed Notre  had executed some opponents,  in the week had been hunting  
Dame's adherence to NCAA  among them prominent  down Doe loyalists around the  
regulations to the structural  politician Jackson Doe.  city ­agreed Wednesday to al­ 
separation of the positions of  Doe, no relation to the late  low the late president's follow­ 
Head Coach and Athletic Direc­ president, was the 1985 presi­ ers to leave Monrovia if they  
tor, which provides an internal  dential candidate of the  surrender their arms.  
system of checks and balances.  Liberian Action Party. Many  
observers said he was robbed  Johnson made the offer in re­ 
She also cited the fact that  of victory by election officials  sponse to a request by the  
athletics are not financially au­ appointed by Samuel Doe, who  chairman of the Economic  
tonomous, but a unit of the  took power in a 1980 coup.  Community of West African  
university subjected to a bud­ Taylor's force, mainly un­ States, Gambian President Sir  
get.  trained youths, had been  Dawda Jawara, who ordered a  
bogged down by Samuel Doe's  West African task force to save  
Further, the absence of ath­ men for nearly three months on  Doe's supporters.  
letic dormitories enforces the  Monrovia's eastern outskirts.  
integration of academia and  But Doe died Monday after  A long convoy of vehicles  
athletics.  being captured by rebels under  from the 3,000-strong West  
Prince Yealu Johnson, and his  African peacekeeping force in  
Finally, the university makes  loyalists fled in disarray, offer­ Monrovia was approaching the  
strong statements to its alumni  ing an opening for Taylor.  mansion late Wednesday to of­ 
that booster programs, or  Columns of smoke rose as Tay­ fer safe conduct in a convoy  
raising funds for inducement,  lor's rebels advanced through  escorted by two tanks and a  
will not be tolerated.  eastern suburbs behirud a bar- small group of Johnson's men.  

TONIGHT Fireside Chat 
The Crisis ofthe Post-Independence 
African State 
Theodore's Theater!LaFortune Center 7:00p.m. 

not]nst
for priests 
anymore
Friday, September 14, Closing Reception 
The ~ecret'• oat-the finest 
made, moat comfortable moe 
ia nailahle iD South Bend at:
Special African Dishes, 
SHOE REPAIR

African MJlsic and Dance 

228 s. Michlg8l'l 
.:::l!fiJ 
South Bend

Stepan Cent~r 8:00 1--'.m. $2(payable at the door) 

The Observer ThuJsday, Sept_ember 13, 1990
page 4 


S. Africa 
continued from page 1 

opposition groups like the African National Congress (ANC), the South African gov­ernment is sincere to a point," said O'Meara, "but they are si­multaneously trying to carve out the maximum stake they can in the future of South Africa." 
"The government of South Africa will likely exert pressure to try to split black groups," he said, "and their working with the ANC is a relationship of ex­pediency." 
However, the ANC is a power­ful force to contend with, and its self-organization in the coming months is very impor­tant to South Africa, said O'Meara. 
"The ANC faces a tremendous task of organizing itself into a political party, in that it has to set up offices. gather funds, and establish set policies on a variety of issues," O'Meara said. "And this all came about quite suddenly." 
Peter Walshe, professor of government and director of the African Studies Program at Notre Dame, agreed that the ANC has an enormous chore in the near future. 
"It is now in an awkward in­terim situation," he said. "Once organized it will work, but now it is very difficult." 
Walshe said that the abrupt­ness of the ANC's becoming le­gal and trying to operate above ground for the first time in decades has left it somewhat unprepared, but that it is doing the best it can under the cir­cumstances. 
He also said that the recent "tribal killings" or "black-on­black" deaths are not in fact tribal, but ultimately sponsored by the South African govern­ment. According to Walshe, the deaths are caused by inter-Zulu factions which are spurred on by a black township leader, who · is in turn supported by the white South African govern­ment. 
As for the future, O'Meara said that many problems face South Africa, among them bu­reacracy changes, social ser­vices, education, and employ­ment concerns. Investors must be kept in the nation, but changes must coincide with their continued presence. 
Walshe said that the entire economic structure and outlook of South Africa must change if it is to survive and prosper. 
ND professor questions 
U.S. moves in Gulf 
BY CATHY FLYNN 
Staff writer 
Americans need to ask what the real motives are for the U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf, said Father Patrick Gaffney, professor of Sociology and an expert on the Middle East. 
"If we are the international police force, why are we not condemning the invasions led by other countries such as Israel, Morocco, or Turkey?" Gaffney asked at the Knott Hall Middle East seminar yesterday. "These are the guys on our side." 
The United Nations has con­demned these invasions in much the same way as it did the Iraqi aggression, he said. Iraqis are asking why we ignore these international breaches of the law and concentrate only on their actions. 
"If the U.S. is involved in this situation purely for economic reasons, we need to ask our­selves what kind of country· we want to be," said Gaffney. "Do we have the right to invade Canada if we want cheaper wood?" 
U.S. involvement is seen to Arabs as another unwanted Western presence in the Persian Gulf, Gaffney said. Americans have inherited the negative . feelings Arabs previpusly reserved for the British, he added. 
"People studying this situa­tion thirty years ago knew it was problematic, "Gaffney said. "The whole can of worms is open now." 
Britain set up the boundaries of the Arab nations following World War I, dividing the area between allies. Arabs felt that England had broken a promise to them when they gave land in the Gulf to French and Jewish allies, he said. 
"The invasion of Kuwait now puts in question the borders ev­erywhere else," Gaffney said. "All of the boundaries we see between the nations in the Persian Gulf are very question­able to the Arabs." 
"We've jumped in on chapter eighty-four of a book without realizing all that's gone on be­

fore and the implications of that ~~~~~lQ~~~~~~~~IQI~~~~IXt9CK~~~~
on the future," said Gaffney. ~ 
"Iraq's ideological claim on Kuwait does not extend to Saudi Arabia." 
However, Hussein's unpre­dictable moves in the past should be remembered also, cautioned Gaffney. He sees himself as a hero of Iraq and wants Iraq in the the center of a sort of Arab "orbit", Gaffney explained. 
"Hussein is not the madcap, Hitleresque figure that Bush and the media portray him to be," Gaffney said. "There is room for negotiation." 
The chances of real war 

HAPPY 21ST JEANINE! 
LOVE, THEBARN 
breaking out are about 50150, ~IXIQIX~~~~XJ~X1~X1~~!Ql~~~~~~~~~~ said Gaffney. He sees the situa­tion as extremely volatile, but thinks that Bush can still rea· son with Hussein. 
"We need to give more room to maneuver," said Gaffney. "he has made some reasonable demands." 

~\m £ II0:JIP[piT 8CDiJOJ illJlillffiTJJl)£IT?) J1®illJJ 

Cinema at the Snlte FRIDAY 7:30 , 9:45 
Grant allows homeless center's new additions 
By KATE KECKLER Homeless developed a mission News Writer statement, and they contacted 
South Bend's Center for the other area organizations to Homeless has a full slate of provide services to fulfill the projects and renovations mission. planned thanks to the approval The Center's mission is an of a $400,000 grant from Allied ambitious one: "To meet the Signal Inc. last December. basic human needs (shelter and 
According to Dennis Duggan, meals) while also providing ac­director of the Center, monies cess to either on or off site ser­from the grant will be used to vice providers with the hope of renovate the second floor of the establishing or re-establishing Notre Dame owned building. independent lifestyles." 
The women's dormitory will Numerous local organizations be expanded, eight new family are on hand to help fulfill this rooms and two additional mission. Notre Dame Law classrooms will be created. School students provide free le­There will be a small youth gal counsel, the Madison Center center, and administrative assists with the chronically, offices including space for mentally ill, the Indiana Health Notre Dame law students Center Project Homecoming involved with the program will provides medical and dental be added. care, the South Bend school 
The first floor will continue to corporation offers GED classes, house the men's dormitory, and the Junior League of South kitchen, dining, and group facil-Bend sponsors a kid's club and ities. mother's support groups. 
Father Dick Warner, Presi-Keeping with their commit-dent of the board of the Center ment to the homeless, the cen­for the Homeless described AI-ter does not operate on a time lied's goal in the donation as limit basis. According to Dug­"an opportunity for all of the gan, "We review each sectors of the community to individual case once a week, come together and face a and as long as progress is being growing problem, the problem made, interview appointments of homelessness." are being met, and families are 
The expansion {completion is actively seeking employment, expected around November 15) we allow them to stay on as will allow the center to serve long as necessary. Currently, approximately 200 to 225 peo-the average stay is close to pie a day, an increase of about sixty-nine days." 50 persons compared to last There are presently ten full­year's capacity, said Warner. time employees, and the build-
The Center for the Homeless ing is staffed seven days a was a spin-off of combined ef-week, twenty-four hours a day. forts. A founding board includ-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ing The University of Notre students are encouraged to Dame, the city of South Bend, participate with the center. the United Religion Commis-Generally, 200 students spend sion, the South Bend Junior some time handing out towels, League, and the Council of issuing beds, answering phones Providers for Service to the and serving meals. 

Thursday, September 13, 1999 The Observer page·5 
South African fighting escalates in black townships; fifty dead 


JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Chaotic violence raged Wednesday through black townships, where armed gangs set fire to homes and chased people through the streets. Police said at least 50 people were killed. 
It was some of the worst unrest in a month of black faction fighting in townships near Jo­hannesburg. More than 700 people have died. 
People piled possessions in wheelbarrows and supermarket carts to flee clashes between groups armed with machetes, axes, spears and clubs in the black townships. 
"We have to leave. We are helpless without guns," said one man who refused to give his name. 
Ambushes in Soweto killed a white policeman and three blacks, while street fighting killed 46 blacks in four other townships, police said. 
Later in the day, police reported four black men in a van opened fire with an AK-47 assault rifle 
me. 

It's the biggest game of this very young college season. Traditional powers. Traditional rivals. Notre Dame and Michigan. Two of the country's best, in the game that could start either on their way to the #1 ranking. 
Over 70,000 will be at the game live. Many more will be watching it on TV coast-to-coast. And when 
I 

Waiting 
Armed men sit outside a shack in Katlehong, South Africa Wednesday after overnight savage fighting continued in townships around Johannesburg. More than 700 people have been killed in the past month. 
on passersby in downtown and cars were set alight, and Johannesburg, killing at least charred corpses remained on three blacks. The independent the street in several areas. South African Press Association said 10 people were wounded. "The Zulus are killing us," said 
one man at the Tokoza squatter Officers fired tear gas and camp, who was carrying an birdshot to disperse crowds in axe. "Every night they come Vosloorus and Soweto. Houses with guns." 
A resident of the Katlehong township told the South African Press Association that youths attacked a train there Wednes­day night, setting three wagons on fire. The man, Muzi Mango, told the news agency that he heard gunshots and people screaming. 

Cable channel to feature ND professor's lecture 
Special To The Observer 
T.V. Morris, associate pro­fessor of philosophy at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, will be the featured lecturer for the October program in the "University Lecture" series produced by the national cable network, The Learning Channel (TLC). 
TLC producers will tape the program Wednesday on the Notre Dame campus. The show will feature Morris lecturing to his Philosophy 101 class on the subject, "The Ethics of Every­day Life." TLC also will tape an interview with Morris to be in­tercut with his lecture. Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy will open the program with a brief description of the University and an introduction of Morris' lecture. 
Morris, whose specialty is the philosophy of religion, joined 


CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990. 1991 

SA I NT MARY'S COLLEGE 
the Notre Dame faculty after receiving his doctorate from Yale in 1980. During his decade at the University, he has taught as many as 1,200 undergradu­ates a year, served seven years as a director of the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) summer seminars for school teachers, three years as a professor in the National Elderhostel summer program, been awarded NEH and Howard Foundation research fellowships, and published nine books, including "The Logic of God Incarnate," "Philosophy and the Christian Faith," and "The Bluffer's Guide to Philos­ophy." 
The Learning Channel is available to Elkhart subscribers of Heritage Cablevision, but is not offered to South Bend and Mishawaka residents. 
Police said they had no report of such an attack. 
African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela dis­cussed the violence Tuesday with President F.W. de Klerk and called for the military to end the fighting. Mandela and other black leaders have been unable to bring peace, despite repeated pleas. They have ac­cused police of fueling the fighting and allege that whites with blackened faces or wear­ing masks have joined in the at­tacks. 
The fighting involves Zulus loyal to the conservative Inkatha movement and Xhosas and other blacks linked to the ANC. It began Aug. 12 in Jo­hannesburg-area townships after spreading from Natal Province in the east. Natal is the traditional Zulu homeland. 
ANC supporters have charged that much of the recent fighting began with Inkatha attacks on squatter camps and other dwellings. 


page 6 The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1990 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Iraqi people," and that Iraqis should blame hardships created by the embargo on their own government. 
Bush made the eight-minute tape after the Iraq government offered to send a TV crew to in­terview him and broadcast the interview on Iraqi television 
Bush opted to make his own tape instead. White House offi­cials said they doubted the en­tire message would be broad­cast in Baghdad. 
Iran's Khamenei, meanwhile, reiterated his opposition to Iraq's invasion. But the con­demnation was muffled by his bitter denunciation of the U.S. forces deployed to protect Saudi Arabia. 
"What has the security of this region got to do with you?" he asked. "The security of this re­gion is the business of the na­tions of this region." 
Speaking amid chan.ts of "Death to America!' and "Death to Israel!' by an audience of hundreds, Khamenei warned: "Moslem nations will not allow America to set up its security and defense system in the region." 
"The struggle against American aggression, greed, plans and policies in the Persian Gulf will be counted as a Jihad (holy war), and anybody who is killed on that path is a martyr," he said in the speech carried by Tehran radio and monitored in Nicosia. 
Lt. Col. John Olsen, a U.S. military spokesman in Saudi Arabia, would not say if Khamenei's statement had led to new security measures. 
"We always are monitoring the situation and we will implement whatever steps we feel are needed," he said. 
Iran's spiritual leaders often referred to their 8-year conflict with Saddam's secular regime as a crusade. But Saddam last month withdrew troops that occupied Iranian territory since a 1988 truce, and agreed to share sovereignty over the dis­puted southern Shatt-al-Arab waterway. 
On Sunday, Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz was in Iran for the first visit by a high­ranking Iraqi official in 15 years. Officials said Iran agreed to allow food and medical supplies into Iraq in return for 200,000 barrels of free oil a day. 
Analysts said Khamenei's comments may have been aimed at placating anti-Western radicals in the Tehran hierarchy who have been critical of the U.S. presence as well as the moderating policies of President Hashemi Rafsanjani. 

• 
It brings out the best in all of us:M 
United Way 

SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, SEPT. 10 
11 a.m. A Moreau Seminary resi­dent reported damage to the rear window of his automobile in the Moreau Seminary parking lot. 
1:28 p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported the theft of his duffel bag containing clothing and NO football tickets from the South Dining Hall. 
3:47 p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall reported the theft of his backpack from South Dining Hall which con­tained books, a Hewlett-Packard cal­culator, wristwatch, and keys. 
6:01 p.m. A silver women's watch found at the Main Circle bus stop was turned in to Security. 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 11 
12:21 a.m. A resident of Knott Hall reported receiving an obscene phone call. 
9:26 a.m. A University employee reported the presence of three suspi­cious persons near the bike racks of University Village. Security appre­hended and questioned the suspects. 
11:00 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of football tickets from the LaFortune Hall Deli area. 
11 :30 a.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported the theft of laundry from a washer in Grace Hall. 
1:45 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported the theft of a bookbag con­taining notebooks and books from the lobby of the Bookstore. 
3:51 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported the theft of a suitcase, sheets and towels from the main of­fice of the fencing gym in the JACC. 
4:45 p.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported a man who exposed himself from his car while asking for directions in the B2-C2 parking lot. 
5:37 p.m. A resident of Howard Hall received an obscene phone call from a male claiming that he was conducting a survey. 
9:16 p.m. A Security Officer re­ported three suspicious persons in the Visitor's Lot of O'Hara-Grace parking lot. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 12 
2:08 p.m. A resident of Lyons Hall reported the theft of her bike from O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
-· 
Join 

The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEED STUDENT TICKET FOR TRADETRADETRADE Rl, CALL KARIN x1992 MICHIGAN I have two 50 yard line tickets to Happy Birthday, even though it's 
HEYDOMERS: 

One more day til Molly's legal!! NEED ONE MICHIGAN x3843 trade them for two Miami GAs. Call AL 
Class 
BILL 3540 the Michigan game. I would like to long distance. Have a great one. 
continued from page 12 ATTENTION I ATTENTION! 
NEED MICH STUD TIX Kelley at 283-4854. MICHIGAN studs and GAs ANY#CALLMIKE1625 SID AND MARK-WHAT
MICHELLE HOERSTER'S 21ST BIRTHDAY-SEPT. 13TH. IF SEEN
needed. Will pay $$. Please call URGENT! I need 1 Michigan, 1 COMMENT? ALL ANGIE SAID 
Need MICH. Student TIX. Will pay Darrell at 283-3302. Miami, and 5 Stanford Tix. STUD ON CAMPUS, HUGS AND KISSES WAS MARK HAD THE BIGGEST top $$. Call Woody at 4653. If no or GA. David at x4115. ARE IN ORDERIIII WET BURRITO SHE'S EVER answer, leave message. 
SEEN. HOW ABOUT WHAT YOU I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force GUYS SAID ABOUT OUR NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED2 "MUSH" FORMERLY KNOWN ASWILL EVEN PAY$. CALL MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ 
LISA PHILIPS -TIME TO GIVE
tix. Call Pat x 233-7328. FAJITAS?-BRUNETTE AND
FOR SALE FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 CALL NICOLE 234-8882 BACK THOSE THINGS THAT 
ANGIE NEED MICHIGANGA 
DON'T BELONG TO YOU.
If interested, call 4500. NEED 2 MICHIGAN TIX WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S STUDORGA DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE 
Miami Tix PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE !!!!! 
FREE BEER!!I FREE BEER!!!
Phone: x1755 I NEED MICHIGAN GAs FOR MYCALL LYNN X1277 AT2344 
I desperately need AIR FORCE
SELLING 2 Ml GA'S TO BEST PARENTS CALL ANN 283-4872 I II FOR SALE I II 
GA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS$$$
OFFER BY THUR MIDNITE NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET. CALL HELP I NEED MICHIGAN TIX FOR 
CALL DAVE AT 2201
CALL 284-5196 TARA X1267. MY ROOMMATE WHO IS GOING 3 SR. MICH STUD. TIX dave glenn does dishes TO ROME $$$$$$$ 
MONEY TALKSII BEST OFFER BY THUR. MIDNITE X 3541 MAGGIE HOSTS
ATTENTION BEER POUNDERS!!!
Will Trade: COLLEENX4508
I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. 
Thursday is KEVIN CANNON'S
MICHIGAN GA's (pairs) for CONOR SINGS FRANK
CALL BILLY -x1817. 
20TH BIRTHDAY!! I STOP BY 911
MIAMI GA's ...... also selling Need 2 Air Force GA's call SINGS THE BEATLES...
Need 1 student Penn State ticket FLANNER TO POUND A FEW

MICHIGAN GA's. Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 call for time
TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR for a future Domer. Please call Pat WITH HIM OR CALL AND POUNDcall PAT or BRIAN at #1770. 
at 273-9367.

2 PRDU GA'S "TIM"1407 
OVER THE PHONE. tix: 2 GAs and 5 St. tix. Call football game. Will pay big $$ 
Help me out. I need Michigan TICKETS NEEDED for any home 
HAPPY POUNDING KEV!!! NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, NEED GA'S-3 MICH, 1 AF, 3 The Rat and Cloutier
Need 1 Michigan GA 

Faris@ x3082. Call Tom at x3280.
call Pat 289-5542 

STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752-MIAMI"DAVE@ 1407 
5314. HAPPY BELATED 20th
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MICHIGANII! SINGER AND KEYBOARDIST
I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GA CALL CHRIS X1067 SOUGHT FOR EST. CAMPUS
This is an easy one. I need KERRY CLAIR 
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. PURDUE TICKETS! Call Carrie at I NEED 2 PURDUE GA You were in rare form on Sat. nite. 
BAND. CALL Rich x3342 orBRIAN X2153

X4049.
TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. I'll do any1hing for 2 Michigan GA's Dancing on tables, Scott 234-3356. or Mich. Air For Miami student tix. "Darlin'" · loved it! WANTED: 2 tickets to the Notre 
BIG DOLLARS! 
Brian x-1306 
Jrs.-1 need a cruise tix! Joni 

NEED STUDENT TIX 1839
Dame-Miami game. Call Mark at 1-Please sell me your tickets!!!! 
ALL HOME GAMES800-325-5275 or leave message. 

NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXSII Call Cathy at 273-9624. CALL KARIN x1992 RICHIE-RICH (THAT'S YOU
CALL 1597 MOM IS GONNA KILL MElli
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! I RICH) and the other Jellydonuts, Unless I get two Michigan tickets. 
NEED 2 MICH TIXIII 277-9452

NEED 1 MICH. TICKET, ANY Help!!I Looking for Michigan Last weekend was kind of lame 
$$ I NEED TICKETS $$ I'll take your GA's or StudTix. BIG­
KIND. DESPERATE! HELP! tickets (GAs and Student) wouldn't you say?
Up to 4 Airforce G.A.s TIME CASH!!!)
ROYAL ORDER:

#4032 Please call John or Regina Rich, you are definately a
and 2 Stanford Studs. CALL TOMAT1779Hear ye! Hear yel
258·0809 $$$ "JELLYDONUT DELUXE." WAY
Call Christine @ 2682 
The Queen o' the Irish Requires MICHIGAN tix 

TRADE 2 MICHIGAN OR PENN TO PASS OUT ON A STRANGE THANKS TO THE GREAT FRIEND
STATE TIX FOR TWO MICH TICKETS NEEDED CHAIR. Do you really remember WHO MADE MY TUESDAY
STANFORD OR MIAMI. 259-7229. 2STUD, 1 GA For Her Royal Court EVERYTHING that happened?? I "HAPPY AND SMILEY!!!" THANKS
PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975 All Willing to Answer HELPII '90 NO GRAD NEEDS don't know, I've been hearing 
FOR THE BALLOON!!

NEED: 2 PURDUE GA'S AND 1 Her Highness' Plea MICHIGAN STUD TIXI PLEASE stories. I don't know about you. AIR FORCE STUDENT. You can save a marriage, sell me Please Contact Treven X4503 CALL SANDY X41211 Pellecchia, I don't know about you B.P. PLEASE CALL TRISH x3860 your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. ANY PRICE!I GAs or Studs and your hormones either. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYNeed Michigan Student Tickets. 

Well Rich, I just hope your KERRY QUINN
Call Nader at 273-1849 

HAVE 5 MICHIGAN STUD. TIX I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) I NEED MICH STUDENT TIX performance isn't repeated on 
FROM YOUR MBA FRIENDS

CALL 234-2728 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS Friday night. That would really be CALL MATT X 2984 CALL DAN 234-8608 lame. Have fun!! II
WANTED: 2 GA TIX TO WHO WANTS TO GO SEE BILLY

I HAVE TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'S!II MICHIGAN. WILL PAY. CALL Love, BRAGG ON 9/20 IN CHICAGO?
I NEED 1 MICH. STUD AND TWO I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ NEED MICH GA'S COLLECT MORNINGS AND ASK us 
CALL DAVE 2789.

PURDUE GA.'S. CALL OR LEAVE I need 2 GA's for EVERY home WILLPAYTOP $ FOR CATHY. (508) 687-1050. MESSAGE FOR CHRISTINA AT game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER I CALL PAT 234-8608 P.S. Toddles and Rich, 
LORI MILLER
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN TIX

273-943811 PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ You don't have a chance to win our When you watch sports, it's FOR 2 MIAMI. CALL (312) 975­
DESPERATELY SEEKING football duel against the fearsome tun. When you play a sport, 
*o/o*o/o*o/o*%*%*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o NEED 1 MICH. Tix STANFORD GAME TIX 2299 AFTER 6:00 P.M. Bias and Bubs and our 
it's recreation, but when you

CALL ME BEFORE YOU SELL AARON x2384 x2352 for use by my nubile young sister impenetrable defense!!!!! 
work at a sport, it's Judo! 
TICKETS I TICKETS! TICKETS! 

YOUR MIAMI GA'S who's coming to town. Quit while you're ahead and save 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

I WILL BEAT ANY PRICE!! NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. Call Alison at 4011 facellllllllllllllllll tm. your Buds.
NEED MICHIGAN STDS OR *o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*%*o/o*%*% HAVE 2 MICH. GA'S. 
BILL X1562 CALLX4045 
GA'S. KELLY 234-8744 
NEED ALL TICKETS X1167

Need five GA's for Michigan game. WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S WE NEED 4 TICKETS FOR OCT 6 Will pay top dollar. Call Mark OR WILL SELL. I HAVE A MICH. STUD. TIC.
[ PERSONALS

STANFORD GAME. x1576. CALL MARK 212-595-0275. Call Michelle at x2734 with best CALL 708-882-3215 COLLECT offer by Fri. 5pm.
hiag COME WATCH
Need five GA's for Michigan game. WILL TRADE TWO MIAMI GA'S 4 MIAMI GA's are what I need. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x161 0. FOR TWO MICHIGAN GA'S OR HERE'S THE AD YOU WANTED
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 22-SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY
So give them to me, please. Pete STUDENTS. CALL (708) 530-WAYNE! HOPE YOU HAVE A
MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR

x1745 Need five GA's & STUD. for 2153 TODAY BEFORE 4:30. GREAT WEEKEND. I'M SURE
MON.WED.FRI. OR M-F. 8-12:30. AT
Michigan game. Call Paul x1755. YOU'LL LOOK GREAT IN
234-8743.

I HAVE 2 GREAT MICH GA's Miami Ticket BLACK!I! 
BRIDGET'S TONIGHTNEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD Available 

$5 HAIRCUTSIIII 

I WANT 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ x1412 
REGULAR & ROTC 
MUSIC BEGINS AT 9:00
BROTHER WHO IS AN '83 GRAD CALL BARB X4419 WITH B.S.O.J. 
Please! Please! Please! 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 

GIVE TIM A CALL EXT. 3558 I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX I need one Mich. ticket of 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST CALL MIKE AT X4022 any sort! Lisa x3212 
SOUTH BEND 

Need GA's and stud tix for NO JUNIORS 
vrs Stanford PLEASE call Lisa NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & need 2 Ml GA's Rick C. x 1750 
233-4767 

at5012 MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO SELL ME YOUR CRUISE TICKET
TRADE. LUKE X1213 Need 2 tickets (any kind) for Sammy's got the bar back 
FOR BIG PROFIT! NEEG: TWO MICH. TIX Michigan game Sammy's got the bar back!! Call Chris GA'S OR STUD'S. PLEASE HE L Pl!!l!!llllllllllllll My cuz from call Ry X1048 
x1056 

CALL ZAC #3797 ANY TIME. Arizona is coming to the CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN DESPERATE!!! Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for Need Miami GA's ESCORT ON CAMPUS... I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX NEED MIAMI TIX? We have 2 any ticket. Call Mary $$$$$$$ no object EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM FOR THE MICH. GAME. NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & Call x4112 at x1292. Call Mark 232-4589 CALL 283-BLUE CALL HEATHER 271-g260 STANFORD CALL 273-1364 


Thursday, September 13, 1990 
The Observer 


AP Photo 

Back to School? 
Si~-yea~-o~d Gregg Govan finds an awkward way to get comfortable while sitting at his desk in Mrs Sp1nner s first grade room at the Eliot School in the North end of Boston on Monday. · 
Engineers finish shuttle repairs 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP) -A crushed seal that escaped repeated checks of Columbia's leaking rear compartment has been replaced, and a confident NASA set Tuesday as the date for the shuttle's fourth launch attempt. 
Engineers initially believed one of Columbia's three recircu­lation pumps leaked during fu­eling last week for NASA's third attempt to send the shuttle on an astronomy mission. The crushed seal was discovered Tuesday as technicians checked the newly installed pumps. 
NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said Wednesday the seal apparently was damaged when it was installed improp­erly after Columbia's last flight 
--...-........................................... . 
0 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
After a long day of classes and endless homework, one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. 
And, remember, Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 

1 0% discount on food to all ND/SMC students, faculty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID required). So why put up with stale pizza and sandwiches... 
whenyoucancomehometo,IH~a~c~ie~n~d~a~?------~-.:~~~~--J---~--~ 
uot"<\e to Hacie
Hours: 
Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. 

e ~~ IJqil
Fri.& Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 

(Jo~ 


:::::::.l~-~-~~·-=-=-~~·~~~C~~~=~:~=~~~~~~~·-~~:~·~:~-~~~~~~~~~~~~M~D:~:~=::~:I:~:~~-;~;R~~~-~~i_i~i-~~~.~-~-~:~:~:~: 
................................................................... 
: : : :Grape Road at Indian.Ridge_ Plaza, M.i~hawaka _(Near Phar-Morancj_T.~. Maxxl .277~1.3.18: : : 
•••••••••••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · © HaciMda ME!Xitan Re~urants c 
'• •••••••.••• 0 •••••••• 
in January. The Teflon seal, about 2 1/2 inches in diameter, is part of a valve on a hydrogen line that leads to one of the shuttle's three main rocket engines. 
"They feel extremely confi­dent that's what stopped our show last time," Hartsfield said. "They think they've cured it. It's a great thing to be able to say." 
NASA has been trying to send Columbia on an astronomy mission since May, when the shuttle's hydrogen leaks first were detected. The space agency replaced the hydrogen lines between the orbiter and external tank, and made minor repairs in the aft compartment. 
The new components did not leak during fueling for Thurs­day's launch attempt. But hy­drogen flooded the rear com­partment, where the pumps and three main engines are located. 
Tests of the pumps that were removed found only minor leakage, and that could not ac­count for the amount of hydro­gen that filled the compart­ment, Hartsfield said. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has only a few days next week in which to launch Columbia with seven astronauts and a $150 million observatory called Astro. After that, the flight will have to wait until after Discovery's top-pri­ority mission to send a satellite on a five-year journey to study the sun's polar regions.· 
page 7 

Crew of eight to begin long stay in biosphere 
ORACLE, Ariz. (AP) -Eight environmental pioneers were named Wednesday to spend two years with just each other ­and 3,800 varieties of plants and animals -inside a glass­and-steel dome trying to dupli­cate Earth's ecosystem. 
Among the crew are a 66­year-old gerontologist, an elec­trical engineer, a marine biolo­gist and a botanist. They are two Britons, a Belgian, a Ger­man and four Americans. 
All the "biospherians" have worked together for at least three years on the Biosphere II project, an attempt to copy the planet's natural environment inside a 2 1/4-acre closed, self­sustaining system. The planet's natural environment is desig­nated Biosphere I. 
''I'm working five years to­ward this aim of a two-year closure, and the closer the day comes, the more excited I get," said crew-leader Bernd Zabel, a 41-year-old German. 
As a laboratory for showing ways to solve environmental problems such as pollution, the privately funded Biosphere could become a moneymaking venture, scientists have said. It also is a prototype for sustain­ing life in space. 
Inside the sealed geodesic frame, all air, water, food and wastes will be regenerated and recycled. 
Only electricity will link its ecological system with the out­side. Computers and telephones will provide communications with mission control and the rest of the world. 
Crew members will be able to leave via airlocks in event of emergency. 
Plans call for the venture to begin Dec. 5. The other crew members, all 

single, are Abigail Alling, 31, a marine biologist and co-cap­tain; Dr. Roy Walford, a na­tionally noted gerontologist and nutritionist and professor of pathology at the UCLA School of Medicine who will be medical officer; Linda Leigh, 38, scientific director; Sally Sil­verstone, 35; Taber MacCallum, 26; Jane Elizabeth Poynter, 28, and Mark Van Thillo, 29. 
The $30 million world-within­the-world will be like a space colony tethered to Earth. It consists of distinct ecological areas, or biomes: desert, ocean, savannah, fresh and saltwater marshes, agriculture and hu­man habitat. 
''I'm sure there'll be many emergencies that arise during that two-year period, but I think also that it ought to be an extremely stimulating and mind-expanding experience," said Margret Augustine, chief executive officer of Space Bio­spheres Ventures. 
She said all the crew mem­bers are highly qualified, tal­ented, dedicated, enthusiastic and "extremely special people." By facing difficult and danger­ous situations in other ventures, she said, they have shown themselves capable of "coming up with the needed decisions and actions at the appropriate time." 
Augustine said six other peo­ple who were candidates for the crew also hold key management positions with the project and will be involved in the experiment. 
Asked about possible rela­tionships developing among the people sealed inside the Bio­sphere, Leigh said that would be a personal matter as long as it doesn't interfere with their work. 
Business 
P~9!8 

ND Video store scheduled to open within the month Student manager seeks $9,000 loan 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 

Student government has ap­proved a $6,000 grant for establishing a video store in the LaFortune basement space pre­viously occupied by The Cellar music store. 
Steve Perkins, a Notre Dame senior, is the student slated as the manager of the proposed video store. 
Many obstacles remain before the store becomes reality, Perkins said. "We still need about $9,000 before this store can float. The university ad­ministration denied our loan request, but we have ap­proached the Student Business Board for the $9,000," said Perkins. 
The Cellar was consistently running in the red from the start, said Perkins. Last year alone, the store lost between $2,000 and $3,000. 
The Student Business Board decided last May to change the focus of the store from records to videos, with the hope of re­versing the store's monetary losses. 
"The competition from other records stores just killed us. With what our distributors charged us, we could not set competitive prices compared to other local stores," Perkins said. 
The original start-up money 
would be used to purchase 500 
videos, plus help remodel The 
Cellar area to accommodate 
videos. 
Any revenue made would be reinvested into the store, pur­chasing more videos and even­tually video players for rental, according to Perkins. Some money would also help pay back the $9,000 loan, which Perkins hopes to extend over three years of payment. 
Perkins has a fairly strong idea of how operations will run. "Anybody wishing to rent will have to buy a membership. We'll originally sell those with a three dollar sale, but the nor­mal membership price will be five dollars. This will give us a strong cash flow right off the bat," said Perkins. 
The Student Affairs commit­tee will oversee the selection of videos, but he does not expect a great deal of censorship, ac­cording to Perkins. "Something like 9 112 Weeks should not be any problem. The selection will range from more recent, popu­lar movies to the cult classics, he said." 
If the loan is approved on next Monday by the Student Business Board, Perkins hopes the store the be operating by the end of the month. He wants to call the establishment Notre Dame Video. 

Monopoly money 
AP Photo 

Demobilized Contra rebels make fun of Gold Cordoba bills, the new currency that officially is worth the same as the dollar. The former rebels wanted their government aid paid in dollars because banks charge a commission to change the Gold Cordobas. Old cordobas undergo weekly inflational devaluations. 
Indiana home prices up 4.35°/o 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­The median home price rose Prices for Hoosier homes are 4.35 percent in Indiana during growing at a faster rate than in the second quarter of this year, the country at large, a new according to the study con­study shows. ducted by the Indiana Associa­
"For the last two quarters, tion of Realtors and the IV cen­we've seen a continuing trend ter. toward Indiana outpacing the 'The study found the median rest of the nation on increases home price during the second in home prices," said Jeffrey three months of 1990 was Fisher, director of Indiana Uni­$60,000, up from $57,500 in versity Center for Real Estate the previous quarter and 
Studies. $58,000 during the same period a year ago. 
The nation's median home price was $94,800 during the second quarter, down 0.42 per­cent from $95,200 in the previ­ous quarter but up from $92,600 in the second quarter of 1989. 
The gap between the median home prices for the state and nation will probably continue to narrow, Fisher said. 
SCHEDULED 

-DILLON'S MEMBERS OF APPEARANCES BY: 
THE 1990 IRISH SQUAD -DONN GRIMM 
-"THE BLUES BROTHERS" -CHRIS ZORICH 
-COACH CORDELL! -...AND A "SLIGHTLY-OUT 
-ANDRE JONES
-OF-TOUCH" GROUP OF 
DILLON HALL FRESHMEN 
THURSDAY, SEPT.13, 6:45PM 
ALL WELCOME... ON THE QUAD IN FRONT OF DILLON I FOR THE ANNUAL HOME-OPENER RALLY I 
I 
f 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 13, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor .................•.••.• Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••••••...Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ....•••........ Michelle Dall · Ad Design Manager •••••••••••• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager..••.•.••••.•lisa Eaton Accent Edltor........••.••.•.. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr •.•.Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •...............•.......• Eric Bailey OTS Director .........••.•........ Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .•...... Corinne Pavlis Controller..............•..•...•. Chris Anderson Art Director.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 

Biking solves parking problems Parking at ND 
Dear Editor: "mountain" bikes that have ment look into ways that stu­I have a modest proposal for sprouted up all over campus dents can "gang up" for the improving the parking situation were bought with the idea that ride home during the night. 
at Notre Dame: reduce the use they would be useable during At this point in the develop­of cars. When I lived 2.5 miles the winter. A good sports out­ment of American civilization, I The current parking situation at Notre Dame is enough 
needs improvement 
from campus, I could get from fitter should be able to supply needn't point out the environ­to make any car-owning student buy a bike. Parking 
my house to my school building cold-weather and rain gear, mental and health benefits of faster on my old one-speed bike which can be quite fashionable riding a bike. I think that welots are usually a short hike from the students' dorms, than by car. I even challenged a and attractive, as well as func­could easily reduce car use atand after finally making it to the parking lot, students roommate to a race to prove it. tional. Notre Dame by a factor of two 
can expect to find a dark, dangerous place, and-if 
(It was a tie.) or more if we put our minds to they're lucky-their cars. The campus parking situation 
Any able-bodied person, who The University should pro­it. This would cure any per­therefore needs to be reassessed. 
lives within two miles of cam­mote the use of bicycles as an ceived parking problem more pus, should not complain about alternative to parking. They quickly than any other way.
First, security in the parking lots needs to be improved. 
the parking situation unless he have already started to install

Currently, the lots are poorly lit and infrequently 
walks or rides his bike to the first truly functional bike Francis Deck patrolled, making them quite dangerous for both people 
school regularly. Weather is no racks in the world. Also, I sug­Graduate Student and property. Increased lighting, increased Security 
excuse. Many of the expensive gest that the student govern-Sept. 5, 1990 
patrols, and "call boxes" containing campus phones would allow better visability, provide a deterrent to vandals and a way to contact SafeWalk or Security for an escort home. 
Second, with the expansion of the D2 parking lot and other lots on campus, it has become more difficult to actually find cars once they're parked. While increased lighting would help alleviate this problem, we recommend marking rows with signs or numbers. This would create a means to remember where a given car is parked. 
Third, the allocation of parking spaces needs to be reevaluated. Some students living in Morrissey, 
.1\UV\ 

Pangborn and Fisher are forced to park in the D2 parking lot, which requires them to walk across campus just to get to their cars.While the D6 parking lot, which 
Reports dispute perceived smoke ills 
is right behind the Security building, was expanded 
Dear Editor: The researchers found that being exposed to cigarette
over the summer, it remains little more than half-filled. 
An AP article in your paper adult non-smokers exposed to smoke. I am sure that there is It is ridiculous that this lot is not open to all residents of 
on September 6 entitled "Non­cigarette smoke in the work­some unknown reason for this these South Quad dorms. 
smokers still face risk" stated place were at no greater risk of interesting result, but what is Also, the B2 faculty lot on Juniper Road could be 
that exposure to cigarette getting lung cancer than non­apparent is that passive smoke smoke while a child doubled a smokers not so exposed, and presents much less health dan­utilized to serve the students better. While it is full on non-smoker's chances of getting even more interesting, they ger to non-smokers that anti­weekdays, it sits virtually empty on weekends. In order lung cancer. I found a number found that adult non-smokers smoking activists would like us to relieve congestion in D2, students should be allowed 
of points in the article puzzling who were exposed to cigarette to believe. But then to para­to park their cars in B2 on weekends providing they are 
and so I read the New England smoke socially were signifi­phrase Benjamin Disraeli, removed by Monday. 
Journal of Medicine paper from cantly less likely to get lung "There are lies, damned lies, which this story was taken. I cancer than those who weren't statistics and journalistic arti­The current state of campus parking is unacceptable. 
was very surprised by a (approximately sixty percent). cles selectively reportingWhile there is no immediate solution to the problem, we number of more interesting The researchers could not ex­statistics." 
feel our suggestions would make a good start. If this 
things that were discovered by plain this result. dangerous situation is not improved, an increase in 
the researchers but not re­Ulick Stafford vandalism to cars and many lost or injured students 
ported in the article by the anti­Now I am not going to claim Off-Campus smoking press. that non-smokers are better off Sept. 10, 1990could result. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

PeTER, I'M 9'e.4KING 70 7WO weu, trsA ~wARM, BUT NliWARRIVAL-S IN THe GUL-F HeY, IAI£'RE HeRe 70 R6HTFa< 70f)AY-A RAW [}eMOCJ?At,Y AND/J/3A!NS7 
58A50NW R&5/.:RVISiT.' 7YRANN'ft AND 7HAT'S RRSTRE.tll:T/17.15. /A/HATtu/7R& GONNA DO! 
6/MMe A 8REAK! we'ReHeRe 
FOR CHtAP OIL.! h/b'ReHeRe SO lA/£ lXJN'T NeE// AN t:Nm3'1 ffJU­c,yf tu£'Re Hti<E SO BUSH CAN 
/JRJV&A BOAT SO~ fT'S Fi4 VOR&D £Jf 7HAT'5... THAT's AWFUL.! 
I 

'Experience is what we call our mistakes.' 
A Wiseman 



page 10 
Saint Mary's offers substantial opportunities for student fun 
On Thursday, Sept. 27, there By Edward will be a Broadway production"' Palmisano of ''..Camelot." October 3 finds "Dracula" in O'Laughlin per­
Anyone who remotely knows formed by a ballet group from me knows that I spend a good Pennsylvania. Next semester, a deal of time on the campus of national touring compar\y of Saint Mary's College. "Ba'llet Met" will perform, as Sometimes people ask me, will the cast of the satirical "Why do you go there so "Forbidden Broadway". much?," or make similar re­O'Laughlin also offers a number sponses that reveal an igno­of Christian Rock concerts, rance of what Saint Mary's has special SBSO concerts, and two to offer·students of both cam­student plays. More information puses. The response I like to can be obtained by calling the hear more is, "I didn't know box office at 284-4626. about that. That sounds inter­esting." If you've been sitting in the 
There are some wonderful same carroll at the library for opportunities at Saint Mary's the past three years, you might that more people should be want to try a modern looking aware of and take advantage library with some reading of. You may not have heard it lounges that actually have 
yet, but soon your neighbors will be saying, "South Bend is so lame. There's nothing to do." Wrong. There's a pleasant selection of events right across the street. Last Saturday, in Moreau's Little Theater (no, not Moreau Seminary-Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's), the prin­cipal players from the South Bend Symphony Orchestra gave a concert to a barely half-filled auditorium. Friday night there was a beach party in the Haggar Center that, once the band showed up, was a fantas­tic way to start a Friday night (not to mention a refreshing break from Theodore's, musi­cally). 
I was amazed and disap­pointed to see so many girls fro.m Saint Mary's getting off the shuttle at Notre Dame without giving their own school a chance to entertain. They missed a good time and a chance to instill some pride and recognition in their own school. 
It is not too late to repent, however. There are a number of upcoming events in O'Laughlin Auditorium (that's the place were you go to see the Keenan Revue-an event which, for most Notre Dame women, marks the one annual trip across the street). 
cushions. The Cushwa-Leighton Library is also a good place to check out books that your professors at ND make you wait in long lines to read in the reserve room. 
Moreover, try taking advan­tage of the cross-campus classes at Saint Mary's before you claim it is a school meant only for girls who simply want a husband or couldn't get into ND. They have an outstanding faculty that really cares about your personal needs. I have some friends there who, aca­demically and musically, could run circles around me (and a lot of you). 
Notre Dame has more than its qualified share of facilities, opportunities, and special events, but if we (Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students) opened our eyes to the oppor­tunities and resources at Saint Mary's, imagine the possibili­ties. (Saint Mary's could help by providing more info to ND). Take some time out. It only costs a quarter to get there. If you walk it's free. There's more to Saint Mary's than what you see in the dog book. 
Edward Palisano is a junior majoring in Music Education. 
LETTERS 
SMC needs a female president 
Dear Editor: than a man. 
I am troubled by the fact that This situation reminds me of the president of my school, the incident at Galludet Saint Mary's, is male. This says University, an all deaf college in a lot about what is important Washington D.C. Since the and who is important in the university was established, Saint Mary's/Notre Dame com­every president has had full munity, not to mention the hearing. In the most recent Catholic tradition. selection of a president in 1989, 
I find it particularly ironic the board chose another that every president from 1895 hearing president. until 1968, when the women's The students revolted. Board movement and Vatican II members preferred a hearing fabricated, was female and ever president who could not sign, to since then (with the exception a deaf president who could; of two years) the president has after all, most of them could not 6een male. The message I infer sign themselves. They felt it from this fact is that the more important for the administration feels threatened president to communicate by the women's movement, and, easily with them, the hearing determined to keep the status world, and with the Congress quo in balance around here, (Galludet's indispensable elected a male to "show who's patron), than with Galludet's boss." This also indicates a lack students and alumni. Finally of confidence in women. the board gave in and the first 
A female president would be deaf president, Dr. I. King beneficial for several reasons. Joran, was put into office. First, the women of Saint I chose St. Mary's because I Mary's College would have a wanted to attend an all strong, powerful role model. women's college. Having a male Also, a woman would better president throws a few large understand Saint Mary's dashes of salt onto my students' demands, and make perception of it as such. Let us appropriate decisions accord­begin a transition from ingly. Finally, because Saint paternalism. Mary's prides and promotes itself as a women's college, a Devon Marcuson woman would act as a better Off-campus/SMC representative for our school Sept. 12, 1990 
Blacks must reexamine problems 
immense wealth. housing, in crime and drug­
But black people do not know infested neighborhoods, and
By Paul Peralez or do not care that Mandela is a they must come to the sobering 
vengeful man who seeks realization that black America 
When Nelson Mandela, leader nothing more than to end white is crippled-perhaps 
of the embattled African rule, to seize what the white irreparably-by a past which 
National Congress, stepped foot m~n has built, and to do it by black Americans seem all too 
in the United States, the wine violent means if necessary. eager to cite as a justification 
was already being chilled and Mandela's visit and the for what is an apparent lack of 
grand ballrooms were being reception which greeted it, initiative and collective 
festooned with balloons and particularly that from the black responsibility. Indeed, the 
ribbons. Washington and community, provoke one to operative principle seems to be 
Hollywood celebrities jockeyed contemplate the significance of "If at first you do not succeed, 
for precious few opportunities race in the world and the shout 'racism!" What blacks 
to be enraptured by his domestic economy of power seem to not realize is that no 
presence, and hundreds of and money. Benjamin Disraeli amount of legislation or protest 
thousands of people-mostly once proclaimed that "All is is going to eliminate racism and 
black-waited in block-long race; there is no other truth." that white people owe them 
queues to purchase tickets to When pondering the social and nothing. 
rallies where the "would be" political behavior of black 
saviour of South Africa would America-especially in light of Having returned to South 
deliver his messianic message Mandela's visit to the United Africa with a fattened purse, 
of black liberation and States-one feels compelled to Mandela has already stockpiled 
empowerment. give credence to the words of more weapons for the African 
Disraeli. Indeed, for black National Congress. On this, the 
For a precious moment, black America, race consciousness closing day of Africa Week, it is 
Americans could bask in the has profoundly affected their appropriate that we all focus on 
emotional euphoria spawned by thoughts and behavior. They the emerging role that Africa 
a black man who had shaken have been plunged into a has in world affairs. Black the resolve of one of the world's psychosis of self-hatred and Americans, in particular, should most powerful governments. intense animosity toward realize that being African Invited to the White House, whites and other non-blacks consists of more than wearing a where as recently as the which has hampered their dashiki and shouting a few Reagan presidency neither progress and caused terse phrases in an obscure Jesse Jackson nor NAACP irreparable damage to the self­African tongue. They should President Benjamin Hooks was concept -not only of the black realize that citing Egypt and not ever welcome, Nelson individual but, alas, the whole West Africa as the area from Mandela's very presence of black America. which the overwhelmingembodied the dignity and self majority of black Americans are respect to which many blacks Today, black Americans are descended is an attempt to aspire. He commanded a the single largest proportional arrogate the accomplishment of position of world renowned beneficiaries of the welfare Egyptian civilization and thus leadership in a world which state which limousine liberals, gain the respectability of the had erstwhile not seen any namely the Kennedys and their Western World rather than significant political figure ilk, crafted in the late fifties and embrace their real story. And, emerge from the black African sixties and which is today at a time when more black continent. When his American crashing under its own weight. males are in prison than on stage presence had come to an Black America is lacking in college campuses and when an end, Nelson Mandela left the effective leadership perhaps outrageous number of black United States more than five ·because it has yet to realize children are being raised in million dollars richer and with what style of political behavior single parent households, a mandate from black America. is effective in promoting, blacks should embrace the 
Mandela is a man who quite acquiring and maintaining the wisdom of an old Ashanti literally suffered himself into political, social and economic proverb, "The ruin of a nation celebrity and power. His regal progress that it seeks. Black begins in the homes of its mien and well tailored suits leaders like Jesse Jackson, people." How can blacks certainly might conceal from Louis Farrakahn and Lenora simultaneously sing the praisesthe casual observer that he is a Falani win great applause from of their glorious homeland and man who embraces physical black audiences with their then ascribe their failure to violence as a means to invective, often tinged with whites? This is a quest.ion I politically empowering black anti-semetic pabulum, against can't answer and one which South Africa.. Even more the white establishment. Once blacks should ask of 
invidious, he has subscribed to blacks leave the intoxicating themselves. economic violence-namely the aroma of these incendiarydeath bed philosophy of words, however, they often Paul Peralez is a sophomorecommunism-as a means for return to substandard, in the College of Arts and distributing South Africa's government-s ubsi diz e d Letters. 
Have you cleaned up your act? 

Now that Notre Dame has been without maid service for a few weeks how
' 

does your dorm look? How do you feel about the new cleaning procedures? Did the administration handle the change well? How does the cleanliness of your room (or lack thereof) compare with that of the "community areas" in the dorm? Write Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and let us know what you think. Deadline for submissions is Monday, Sept. 17. 
------~ --~-­
-~-----~~-·------­
Accent

Thursday, September 13, 1990 ~11 
SMC students captain ND squads 
KRISTIN BAZANY wonderful opportunity to unite accent writer the women of both campuses and establish meaningful 
The election of two Saint friendships, regardless of which Mary's students as officers of school you attend." The Notre Dame activities estab­squad's tryout process is helpful lishes status and recognition for because it does not look at Saint Mary's women at Notre which school the girls are from Dame. during the tryouts. This pro­
The 1990-91 Notre Dame cess prevents quotas among the 
Cheerleading Squad and Porn squad. Pon Squad will see Keilleen Phelan, 1990-91 Cheerleading Phelan and Bridget Gott, re­captain, said, "my experience spectively, as officers for the as cheerleader and captain has 
upcoming year. helped not only Saint Mary's 
The appointment of the two relations, but ND as well. We Saint Mary's women to such are all working for the same positions establishes the pres­thing, not two separate places, ence of many opportunities for but one community working to­Saint Mary's women throughout gether for spirit. " She doesn't the Notre Dame community, feel jilted at all because she at­while helping to bridge the gap tends Saint Mary's, but feels she between the two communities. receives insight both ways, 
With these appointments, which she can share with other Notre Dame is abolishing the members of both communities. stigma that Saint Mary's is just Uniting the two campuses the sister school of Notre Dame seems to be a common goal and setting forth the notion of among students, and the ac­equal opportunity for members complishment! of Kielleen 
of both campuses. Phelan and Bridget Gott are Gott, 1990-91 Porn Pon cap­taking both communities one tain, views her position as "a step closer to that goal. 
'Parenthood' is great, unless you've seen the movie 
series based on the movie of the many of the complications tionships are portrayed with television series apart from the same title, and it most definitely faced in modern American soci­both humor and sensitivity. movie still produces only an ad­
Marc Johnson 
would have the two types of ety. Having seen the movie before equate rating. The series is viewers previously mentioned. I Their only son is a very loving the television series, however, I amusing, but not funny. It may am a member of the first group, father who married a beautiful was most disappointed with the produce a smirk, but not a 
To be continued ... for I saw the movie and and loving wife and has a way these relationships were laugh. thoroughly enjoyed it. seemingly perfect family. The portrayed. "Parenthood" is not necessar­The season premiere of difficulty arises when the caring Steve Martin gave a typically ily geared to a college audience. "Parenthood" followed the plot father unwitting creates a son excellent performance in the Instead it attempts to be a 
If a television program de­of the movie in every detail, and who carries all the worries he movie role of the worried fa­comedy for the same cides to pattern itself after a the plot for the entire season obtained from his own ther. Although Ed Begley Jr. "thirtysomething" crowd to successful movie, then obvi­will continue the original story childhood. gives an adequate performance, whom many programs have be­ously there will be two types of line of the movie. The oldest daughter is di­it is nowhere near the caliber of come increasingly more re­viewers for this program. Peo­"Parenthood" is based on the vorced and faces a reentry into Martin's. sponsive during the late 1980s. ple may watch the television relationships of four genera­the dating scene at a middle The same comparisons can be The only portrayal of young series because they enjoyed the tions of family. The patriarchs age, while the youngest daugh­made between Ken Ober of adults is not flattering in the movie upon which it was based, of this family no longer interact ter has married a man who ob­MTV's "Remote Control" and least and definitely not funny. or the viewers may tune in to in a loving manner due to their sesses over the creation of the Ric Moranis. Ober's movie por­the series based on its merit ongoing dispute relating to the perfect child. trayal of the obsessive father is "Parenthood" is a series with alone. fate of the great-grandmother. These characters are refresh­far inferior to Moranis'. basically good intentions, but 
"Parenthood" is a television Their three children represent ingly realistic, and their rela-Evaluating "Parenthood" the lacking in good results. 
Johnny Gill displays vocal range in debut solo album 
DANNIKA SIMPSON range of octaves. The song be­accent writer gins in a low octave. As the song continues, Gill fluctuates 
Johnny Gill's self-named de­between high and low octaves but album shows promise of before reaching very high oc­becoming a huge success. taves at the end of the song. 

A former member of the This song features guest soloist group New Edition, Gill sang Kenny G. and background backup and had a few solo ap­singers After 7. pearances on the album Can "My, My, My" and "Rub You You Stand the Rain. As a mem­the Right Way" have been the ber of New Edition, Gill was not most visible songs on the album able to demonstrate his full thus far. However, the other singing potential. With the re­songs on the album have the lease of his solo album, Gill has potential to become as popular shown that he is able to capti­as the aforementioned singles. vate an audience on his own. "Fairweather Friend" has a 
Produced by the Grammy tempo which is between "Rub award-winning production You the Right Way" and "My, team of Jimmy Jam and Terry My, My." It has a soothing, Lewis in cooperation with L.A. melodic tempo. Reid and Babyface, Johnny Gill The rest of the songs, includ­shows his ability to sing a wide ing "Never Know Love," "Giving variety of songs. The first single My All To You," and "Just An­released from the album, "Rub other Lonely Night," shows You the Right Way," is an Gill's ability to adapt to differ­upbeat tune which was well re­ent styles of singing. The qual­ceived by its listening audience. ity of his voice never changes 
"My, My, My," the second re­despite these varying styles. lease from the album, is a bal­Johnny Gill possesses a voice lad in which Gill demonstrates which music lovers will be his ability to sing in a wide hearing often in the future. 
L_____________________________________________~~--~----------------------­



page 12 Thursday, September 13, 1990 
rr ­

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifi~s is _3 p.m. All classilieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK HELP ME PLEASE!! JUDGE NEEDS TICKETSII! WILL NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !!1!!1
I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S

NOTICES READING BOOKS AT HOME. I desperatly need 2 GA's for the PULL STRINGS FOR YOU. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
NAME YOUR PRICEII!

CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. Michigan game. Will pay just about parents coming out this week­PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT 
#3501 anythingII end to enjoy tickets I was 284-4350TYPING AVAILABLE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE call soon! Ask for Nancy supposed to get. HELP!! NEED 2287-4082 at #284-5038 MICH GAs call 4995 now. I am looking to tradeI NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME

FORRENT 
I 

4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. IfNeed infant daycare by licensed GAMES.272-6306 
PLEASE. I really, really need HOTEL ROOM FOR MICHIGAN interested, call facility? Call Renee Graf at 256­FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of WEEKEND. CALL ERIK-X2088 Hugh at 233-6740.
7311. NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,
PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MONEY. Call Sean x1723
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT WILL TRADE 2 MICH GA's DESPERATE!!II!!!

MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS.
GRAD STUDENTS!! X2088 
WANTED (together) for 2 PENN ST GA's I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! $100+COST (together) call Frank X2262 
272-0615. 
GRAD CLUB NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I need 10, that's right 1 0 
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT 

219-291-7153. 1 SET OF STUD TIX WANTED: Penn State Stud Tix Miami tix (student or GA's)
FRI. SEPT. 14 X2088 
call ANNE at x1704 Every ticket helps. Family coming AN ATIRACTIVE STUDIO IN JON 237-9533 to see game.
4:30 -7:00 PM PLEASE HELP ME !II!I , Call Bryan at 2266MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
255 PLUS DEPOSIT 2888595 
Wanted­
WILSON-coMMONS 

I need one student Michigan FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Senior stud. tixs. Will FOR SALE: 2 MICHIGANStudent tickets for Stanford, ticket. Willing to pay bigPurdue and Air Force. 
Notn Dame-Mioni footboM tkkel!
GRAD STUDENTS !I 

money. Call Tim: #2281 NON-SMOKER offer. Dave x1219 
accept best offer.$$$ 

FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS -'tall Amy at x4624 to make an 
W~lpaytop S
PRAYER MEETING I need 2 Mich. Stud. tix273-9406 OR 283-2805Thursdays @ 7:30 

Colll-800-736-0570 
Will pay very good $$$ HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will payHAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIXSiegfried Chapel $$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1 055 Please call Drew @ 1789CALL 287-6947. 

?? call Eileen x4815 HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME
' 

FOR SALE 
THIS IS A CATHOLIC 2 miami ga's-make offer 237­
HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIX BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'SUsed Textbooks! 
UNIVERSITY -0788
CALL 287·6947. CALL 273-1364 
25% OFF LIST PRICE 
HAVE MERCYIII
Pandora's Books COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: NEED 2 miami GAs! 284-4386 NEED MIAMI TICKETS????

HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIX

corner of ND ave. and Howard HAVE TWO STUD. MICH. TIX.
19" COLOR TV, TWO CALL 287-6947. 
233-2342 NEED TO TRADE FOR TWO
SEMESTERS $110, ONE ALL I NEED IS A GOOD MAN AND ME TOO 
-------------------------------------G.A.'S OR SELL FOR $$CASH$$.
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 1 MICHIGAN TICKET! PLEASE CALL KEVIN X3347
SEMESTERS $110, ONE CALL LISA AT 4929 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami 
I NEED 3 AF GA's. CALL PETE

SEMESTER $80. ATX2340. tans that need humbling.
I LOST/FOUND ) 
NEEDED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'SCOLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­ALL I NEED IS A GOOD MAN AND plus $Cash$ for TWO MIAMI GA'S.
5959. ONE MICHIGAN STUDENT 272-8954 Amy
WE HAVE 4 MICH. GA'SLOST: TICKET! CALL LISA 4929 NEEDED: TWO MICH STUD and

3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC PLANE TIX CHI to LAX And Tp I have 2 stud tix for all ND home
JOHN OR DAVE X3024 TWO AIR FORCE GA'S.

ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR Lv Oct20 Ret0ct28 ONLY $200 MICHIGAN TIX; need 1 student; games 271-0999 Best Offer 
CALL TOM X3697TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF obo Call Nicole x2853 
call Bill x3300 YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and

ANYTHING!I!!III SOLD COTIAGE\MUST SELL I NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR
ORPSUGA'S stud tix for any game. Todd x1747X4090 OR X4049 FAST! PICNIC TABLE $35, 8' 

STANFORD, PENN, & MIAMI SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE PICNIC TABLE $40, GREAT 7' FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1­
CALL BASS X3945
DAVEX3024 WE NEED A MICHIGAN GAI!IIIII!

FOUND: BRACELET IN THE POOL TABLE with ACCESSORIES 800-875-4525. SOUTH END OF NORTH DINING $500, WHITE SCULPTURED RUG 
NEED 1 OR 2 STUD TIX TONEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX Please call 273-9624

HALL. IF IT IS YOURS, CALL $50, PORTABLE DISHWASHER MIAMI X1581-TOM NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA
X3566 X1553. 

CALL COLLECT$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

313-663-4830
MICHIGAN student tix and GAs FOR SALE:

SEIZED CARS, trucks,
Lost-Detex somewhere on Mod M-TH AFTER 8:15PMneeded. Please call Darrell at 283­I need 1 Purdue student Quad (pos. by Grace). If found, 
boats, 4wheelers, 
3302. I have ONE MIAMI TICKET! F-SUN ANY TIMEplease call X4905. 
motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, 
Need it? Call 4624. PLEASE HELP a friend see 1st NEED ALL THE STANFORD TIX I$$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ ND game Scott x3314
DEA. Available your area
LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME CAN GET. GA's. CALL$$$$ #2894 $$$$ Need MICH Ga's or Stud tic's FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG DENNIS X2384
now. Call (805) 682-755 
Call Susan at 258-0635 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$AT MISHIANA REGIONAL 
Ext C-2743.
AIRPORT--CONTAINED Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticketWANTED WANTED NEED 2 MICH. TIX!
CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY, Call Chris X2274 Michigan and Miami G.A'S OR STUD.
AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. 
HELP HELP HELP HELP student tickets. CALL x3771 or x3791

REPOSSESStD VA & HUD
PLEASE CALL TONY AT I would like student tickets HELPIIIIIII 
Call Greg at x1517

X1970. 
for all home games, esp. for

HOMES a-:ailble from govemmen 
MY WONDERFUL PARENTS ARE WANTED WANTED $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Penn St.!!!! Call Jeff x1747 COMING UP FOR THE MICHIGAN
for Sllllilhout aedt died!. You
FOUND: KEYS IN FLANNER. SET GAME ON SAT. THEY PLAN ON I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS IIIIIIIIPLEASE HELP ME!!!III!I
rep*. Also tux delinquent
CONTAINS 3 KEYS. CALL RICH Hi. My name is Colleen and I'mTHROWING A HUGE TAILGATER CALL KEVIN NIGHTS ONLY Friend from Oregon coming to239-5370 & IDENTIFY KEYCHAIN. 
little, so DON'T HURT ME!!! And
foredoswes. Cdl (805) 682-7555 
(food, BEER, fun, for all). 

271-9312 see MIAMI game. Willing to pay give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for
Ext. H-3269 fur npo list yotr area. 
Unfortunately, they don't have BIG BUCKS!

FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN Stanford and Purdue. x2632tickets and they won't come unless WANTED: Contact Tara at x1124OBSERVER OFFICE. KEY RING they get two tickets, or at least one.
HAS A MITSUBISHI KEY ON IT HELP!!!! No, I don't need Miami
$150, BIG MICROWAVE $150, CALLX4526 2 AIR FORCE STUDS OR GA'S I need two Stanford GA's BAD!!
PLUS SEVERAL OTHERS. COME tickets ..... I really, really need
CALl CATHY 233-6586. 
Parents will take back tuition 
UP TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE Air Force tickets and I'm dead
RYAN@2478 if I don't come through!lllllll
IF THEY'RE YOURS. if I don't get 'emf Please call 
BED: QUEEN/LIKE NEW 2870929 Call Mike X3506 lynne@ X2687.
ATIENTION ALL! II 

WANTED: 2 MICH GA'S TO TRADE FOR Have Mich. Std For Sale! 
WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
A CORPORATE PROBLEM­
WANTED 

STUD. & $ : 2870929 Need 2 Mich GA's 2 PURDUE GA'S WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL NEED 8 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN.
Call Thurs Midnight COLL:1-312-745-7210. 

WILL PAY$. 1-262-4990.

PENTAX MX 35mm CAMERA Eric 288-1351 STEPH @4322 Perfect for beginning 
Desperately need 1 student 
OVERSEAS AND 

NEED TWO TICKETS!!! WILLphotography students. Hey-We need 3 Miami GA's HELP ticket for Air Force game!!!! 
PAY$$$!!!-NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS
RUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. 

INCLUDES: 50mm LENSE, Call Diana 234-4974 or NEED MICHIGAN TIX FOR AIR FORCE OR PENN
PENTAX FOCUSING SCREENS, David x1244 STUD. OR G.A. II Please call ALICIA at x3465!!!
Many positi01s. 

STATE. CALL SHANA 2735!!!
CAMERA CASE AND STRAP. HAVE $$$$$$$
Work Month-Home Month. 

Call TIM @ 273-9287 HAVE 2 AF Ga (50 yd 14 row!) 
NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX DEATH will come my way if I don't Trade for 2 MIAMI Ga + $$ (or
Call (805) 682-7555 

PLEASE CALL x2012 $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ get 2 PURDUE GA's! Help me. CallI HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S just $$) Call Steve at 1603.
Ext. 5-1912 
Steve X2478 FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE Mom will kill to see Miami! PLEASE

I NEED MICH GA'S WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-Pleease HELP ME! CALL PAT AT #1010 THANKS ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 
I need 1 Stanford G.A or Student
1364
WANTED-TIX ticket! CALL Mike-273-9471 
NEED: 3 MIAMI GA'S NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI OR 2 GREAT DEAL IMIA-N.D. GAME COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE HAVE: 2 PENN ST GA'S, 2 AIR GA'S FOR AIRFORCE-X2152: ML 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­

CALL 800-323-7687 WE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OF
CALL 273-1364 FORCE GA'S-ALSO HAVE FREE other offers welcome STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3ROUND-TRIP AIRFARE TO NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT x2630 USC TIX! Call ALYSSA or NANCYIBM compatible 286 portable TRADE TIX JOE#1352 x3822
computer, 1.2 floppy, 40 meg HD, CALL X2246-LEAVE MESSAGE NEED STUD/GA TIX
WANTED: 1 meg RAM. Lotus2.1 & Q& A NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL for any/all games 
HOUSESITIERJCOMPANION WANTED:
included. 287-0534. NEED TICKETS$$$$$$$$$ 
X4285. Call x2341 or (708)850-9314
FOR 15-YR-OLD MALE OCT. 11-ANY GAMES TIX GA'S 
evenings

14. KNOLLWOOD AREA. CALL OR STUDS.
13" DIGITAL MITSUBISHI CLR TV I DESPERATELY NEED MICH. NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN,
277-8654 AFTER 6 PM. ASK FOR CALL AARON #1581
$125.00 SHARP RECPTN. PURDUE, STANFORD, MIAMI, Need 2 Miami GAsJOHN OR ROSEMARY. 
X1970 STUDS OR GAS DUE TO AND PENN STATE. CALL JULIA Big$$ I need your MICH tixRECENT NEWS!!!! 
X3505 Angie x2110

Want to hire art student puh-LEEZE! x4272
1 MICH., AF., MIA., STNFD, STUD CALL X 3028 OR 2546 AFTER to paint leprechaun on rec 
TIC. 4 SALE. BEST OFFER CALL 6PM. NEED ALL TIXIII #1588 Kevin Mich. StudTix needed. You need
room wall 273-9158 ME TOO! NEED MICH TIX! STUD
288-2745 (AFTER 7 PM) $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ big cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. 
& GA --TIM 271-8795

-------------------------------------THE DEAL OF THE CENTURY 
Urgent!

DON'T FULLFILL MY WILDEST WILL TRADE 2 GA TICKETS TO
DREAMS NEED MIAMI TIX.
HELP!I Need MICH stud TIXI! 

SEE UNDEFEATED MICHIGAN I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FOR
TICKETS
DON'T SELL ME YOUR MIAMI WILLING TO PAY A LOT
$$!call Tanja x1511 FOR 2 GA'S TO SEE THE PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN.

TICKER X 1167 CALL SHERI AT X2773
HELPLESS HURRICANES. IF 
Got Miami and other stud tix TONY X1590
INTERESTED PLEASE CALL

NEED MONEY ?? KEVEN 1588 4 Michigan Tix Needed. Contact 
THE BULL AT 287-9670

Downtown Book Co. Needs Pat x1787 or Hugh 233-6740.
For Sale: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. 2 Michigan Studs. Tix. Parents coming for NO-Miami YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT!
HELPIIII DESPERATE STUDENT

Many Opportunities. Call Mr. 35YD. Une Game. Need to buy general I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 2 Mich studs or GA's needed 
NEEDS 1 MICH. STUD. & 2 GA'S 

Turner 5-7 pm M-F 288-1002 call Jim 277-6405
Call Joe X1688 admission tickets. Call Mary Lou MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT
FOR ANY HOME GAME

Best Offer or Ray 234-3873. Would like to 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$
CALL SHAUN 273-9241

Students, need extra spending NEED 4 MICH. GA'S, 4 STUD.
buy them now!!! money???? MACRI'S DELl IS Needed: Miami tix, stud. or GA. MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS BILLX4274
Have 4 MICH TIX and Need MIAMI

NOW HIRING FULL AND PART 
Please call Matt i need 2-4 miami tix WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM
TIX · Wanna trade? 

TIME COOKS AND EVENING I can afford to pay $80 for a pair of 
X3024 and 1 purdue tix NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX.
Call Greg Bohdan (714)727­

BUSSERS. Good employee GA's to the ND-Mich. game. 272­
call pat x3800 WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT
1911

benefits, flexible schedules, and a 9602 after 7:00 
BETH NEEDS TICKETSIIIII (303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. great place to work. Apply within: 
WANTED: Michigan Student Tix 
If you don't sell me your MICH.

Located in University Center on NEEDED 2 GAs FOR MICHIGAN
Student tickets needed for and 2 Michigan GA's. Please WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE,
stud. ticket, I hope you drink so

Grape Road. call Erin x4492
Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and call x1840. STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR
much on Saturday that you vomit Will Pay

Air Force. PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2
and pass out before game timelll Fraternities, sororities, campus RICH ALUMNI ACCOUNTANTS MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­

Pete x1745

organizations, highly motivated I NEED PURDUE TICKETS.
Call Beth at 288-0597 NEED 2 MICH TIX. WILL BUY 3982. individuals-Travel free plus earn PLEASE CALL ROGER AT
SEPARATELY. PLEASE CALL up to $3000+ selling SPRING Need $$$?Sell 233-7673. #3074 AFTER 7PM. BREAK trips to:Cancun-South 
your ga's to all NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS Padre Island-Orlando/Daytona 
home games. I need tix for all home games FOR SALE: 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. GA's or STUDS Beach: 1-800-258-9191. 
Call tom x1597. call Joe X1688 CALL 708-328-1523. CALL DAN@ X1795 see CLASS I page 6 


Scoreboard

Thursday, September 13, 1990 


BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East Division 
w L Boston 80 63 Toronto 76 67 Detroit 69 75 Milwaukee 68 75 Baltimore 64 77 Cleveland 65 79 New York 58 84 West Division 
w L Oakland 91 51 Chicago 80 62 Texas 75 68 California 71 71 Seattle 70 73 
Kansas City 67 76 Minnesota 65 78 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Division 
w L Pittsburgh 84 59 New York 81 61 Montreal 75 67 Chicago 67 75 Philadelphia 65 77 St. Louis 64 79 West Division 
w L 

Cincinnati 80 61 San Francisco 75 68 Los Angeles 74 68 San Diego 66 75 Houston 64 78 Atlanta 58 85 
z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Wednesday's Games 
Laie Game Not Included 
· Oakland 9, Seattle 3 
Boston 6, Milwaukee 1 
Texas 5, New York 4 
Baltimore 2, Detroit 1 
Cleveland 12, Chicago 2 
Kansas City 7, Toronto 5 
Minnesota at California, (n) 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wednesday's Games 
Late Game Not Included 
Chicago 9, Philadelphia 3 
San Francisco 8, Atlanta 3 
Montreal 6, St. Louis 2 
New York 2, Pittsburgh 1 
Houston 3, Cincinnati 1, 13 innings 
Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
BOSTON RED SOX-Activated Jeff Reardon, pitcher, from the 21-day disabled list. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Extended the contract of John Wathan, manager, through 1991. 
National League 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Purchased contract of Brian Barnes, pitcher, from Jacksonville of the Southern League. Recalled Scott Anderson, pitcher, from Indianapolis of the American Association. 
BASKETBALL 
National Basketball League 
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Signed A.J. English, guard, to a two-year contract. 
FOOTBALL National Football League . HOUSTON OILER8-Re-signed Don McPherson, quarterback. 
INDIANAPOLIS COL T8-Signed Randy Dixon, offensive lineman, and Jon Hand, defensive end. 
LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Damone Johnson, tight end, to a two-year contract. 
MINNESOTA VIKING8-Signed Kirk Lowdermilk, center. Canadian Football League 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-
Activated Major Harris, quarterback; Norm 
Jefferson, cornerback; Kennard Martin and 
Keith Stephens; running backs; Rick Ryan, 
safety. Placed Chris Major, cornerback, on 
the reserve list. Placed Mike Marasco and 
Lorenzo Graham, on the practice roster. 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Thursday, Sept. 13 
No sports schedules. 
Friday, Sept 14 
Men's soccer vs. ST. LOUIS, 7:30p.m. 
Women"s soccer vs. VALPARAISO, 5 p.m. 
Volleyball at Big Four Tournament 
Saturday, Sept. 15 
Football vs. MICHIGAN, 8 p.m. 
Volleyball at Big Four Tournament Women's cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, 10 a.m. Men"s cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, 10:30 a.m. 
Sunday, Sept. 16 
No sports scheduled 

Coaches with 1 00 Career Victories 
Coach Wons Lost George Halas 325 151 Don Shula* 285 132 Tom Landry 270 178 Earl (Curly) Lambeau 229 134 Chuck Noll* 193 140 Paul Brown 170 108 Bud Grant 168 108 Chuck Knox* 162 109 Steve Owen 153 108 Hank Stram 136 100 Weeb Ewbank 134 130 Sid Gillman 123 104 George Allen 118 54 Don Coryell 114 89 John Madden 112 39 Ray (Buddy) Parker 107 76 Vince Lombardi 105 35 Joe Gibbs* 102 48 
' 
Bill Walsh 102 63 "Still active 
LEAGUE LEADERS 
Based on 370 at Bats NATIONAL LEAGUE 

G AB R H Pet. Dykstra Phi 134 529 97 178 .336 McGee StL 125 501 76 168 .335 Magadan NY 125 387 65 128 .331 Murray LA 135 484-80 152 .314 Dawson Chi 128 466 60 145 .311 LoSmith Atl 119 401 61 124 .309 TGwynn SD 138 561 78 173 .3oa Grace Chi 138 517 61 158 .306 DeShields Mon 111 437 64 133 .304 Duncan Gin 112 391 61 119 .304 
Home Runs 

Mitchell, San Francisco, 34; Sandberg, Chicago, 34; Strawberry, New York, 33; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 31; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 30; Gant, Atlanta, 28; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 27; Daniels, Los Angeles, 24; Justice, Atlanta, 24. 
Runs Batted In 

MaWilliams, San Francisco, 111; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 1 05; JCarter, San Diego, 1 05; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 103; Strawberry, New York, 97; Mitchell, San Francisco, 89; Wallach, Montreal, 89; Dawson, Chicago, 86. 
Pitching (11 Decisions) 

Darwin, Houston, 11-2, .846; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 19-5, .792; Tudor, St. Louis, 12-4, .750; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 17-6, .739; Cook, Philadelphia, 8-3, .727; Gooden, New York, 16-6, .727, 5 are tied with .667. 
Unitedway 
Itbrin~ outthe best in all of u~M · 
l';otre Dame ('ommnni<:atillll ,tud Th~·~ltrt· presPnh , 
C'al~o~~~ ~~~~;~~(?'~;~~~·~~;~·~~In~ I 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
Sunday, Sept. Z3 3:10pm 
Washington Hall 

Tickets cwailable at tM door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu..! Sen. Cit... Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders eall 239-8128 
Pet .559 .531 .479 .476 
.454 
.451 .408 
Pet .641 
.563 
.524 
.500 
.490 .469 .455 
Pet .587 .570 .528 .472 .458 .448 
Pet .567 .524 .521 .468 .451 .406 
GB 
4 111/2 12 15 151/2 211/2 
GB 
11 161/2 20 21 1/2 24 1/2 261/2 
GB 
21/2 81/2 161/2 181/2 20 
GB 
6 61/2 
14 
161/2 23 L10 4-6 z-7-3 z-5-5 5-5 4-6 z-6-4 2-8 
L10 z-9-1 z-4-6 z-8-2 5-5 5-5 1-9 z-6-4 
L10 z-7-3 4-6 z-6-4 5-5 3-7 4-6 
L10 z-4-6 z-8-2 z-4-6 z-6-4 4-6 z-5-5 
. 


* 
Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 1 00 Master Artists 

* 
Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $15! 


*Wide Variety of photographs ...... beautiful landscapes to high tech., ETC. 
*This is your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 


page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1990 
Cone, Mets, close on Pirates with 2-1 victory 
NEW YORK (AP) -David Cone knew the New York Mets had to prove they were still a force in the National League East, and they did on the strength of his three-hitter in a 2-1 victory Wednesday night over the pace­setting Pittsburgh Pirates. 
"It was a huge game for us," Cone said. "We knew we had to win tonight to prove we're still alive. The Pirates came here looking for a split." 
The teams meet Thursday night when Doug Drabek will try to become the Pirates' first 20-game winner since John Candelaria in 1977. Dwight Gooden (16-6) is scheduled to start for the Mets, who have won 10 straight at home. 
By winning, the Mets moved within 2 1/2 games of the Pi­rates. In losing, the Pirates were not overly upset. 
"When you come into the clubhouse after losing 2-1 and still with a 2 1/2-game lead, you can't be too devastated," said Bobby Bonilla, who drove in Pittsburgh's only run with a bases-loaded walk. 
Cone (12-8) improved to 5-0 lifetime against the Pirates, striking out eight and walking four. In his last 18 starts, the right-hander is 11-4. 
Cone had to be good Wednes­day because John Smiley (8-9) allowed only five hits in eight innings. 
New York matched its output in three losses at Pittsburgh last week, including a double­header sweep, by scoring two runs in the first inning off Smi­ley, a left-bander. The Mets en­tered the game 1-7 in the previ­ous eight games started by a left-bander, and 22-27 for the season. 
Gregg Jefferies walked lead­ing off the first and Keith Miller followed with a single. Both scored when Dave Ma­gadan doubled to right-center field. 
Astros 3, Reds 1 
CINCINNATI -Mike Simms' 
first major-league hit knocked in the go-ahead run in the 13th inning for Houston. 
Simms, who replaced Glenn Davis at first base in the 12th, singled to center off Tim Layana (5-3) to score Eric Yelding. Layana wild-pitched in another run. Juan Agosto (7-7) 
Hamill 
continued from page 20 
clubs throughout the nation will hold NutraSweet skate days, in which many will give free admission, skate rental, lessons and clinics. 
"I think you'll see that you can really have a lot of fun and that you don't have to be an aspiring Olympic athlete to get the fun out of figure skating," said Hamill. "What I really love about (skating) is to share the benefits that I think are so great about skating to people of all ages and ability levels." 
Good health starts with g:ood nutrition, 
pitched 1 2-3 innings for the victory with Brian Meyer get­ting the last out for his first save. 
Jose Rijo took a two-hitter into the ninth, but Ken Caminiti hit a game-tying single. Eric Anthony then doubled, but Caminiti was thrown out trying to score. 
Bill Doran, obtained from the Astros last week, led off the first with a homer off Danny Darwin, and Rijo made the edge stand up until the ninth. Rijo, 2­0 against the Astros this year and 7-1 in his career, struck out 11 in nine innings, a sea­son-high for the Reds. 
Dodgers 10, Padres 3 
SAN DIEGO-Pinch-hitter Kal Daniels broke a tie with a three-run double in the eighth inning, and Eddie Murray homered and scored four runs to lead Los Angeles. 
Hubie Brooks scored three runs and both Murray and Lenny Harris had three of 16 hits by the Dodgers. Los Ange­les moved within six gam.es of first-place Cincinnati and re­mained tied with San Francisco for second place in the National League West. 
The decisive rally began with one out when Murray singled off reliever Atlee Hammaker ( 4­8). After Murray went to sec­ond on Hammaker's balk, Brooks was intentionally walked. Mike Sciascia singled, loading the bases and forcing Hammaker from the game. Greg Harris came on, but Daniels hit a drive down the right-field line to clear the bases. 
Tim Crews (3-5) was the win­ner, getting the final out in the seventh to end a three-run San Diego rally. Jay Howell went the final two innings for his 15th save. 
Giants 8, Braves 3 
SAN FRANCISCO-Matt Williams hit a three-run homer and rookie John Burkett pitched San Francisco to its eighth straight victory over At­lanta. 
Burkett (12-7), winless in seven straight starts since Aug. 11, allowed 10 hits in 7 2-3 in­nings as the Giants won their fifth straight game. 
Williams' 30th homer came in the first inning, ending the hot spell of Charlie Leibrandt (8-9), who came in with three straight victories and a streak of 25 consecutive innings without an earned run. 
Brett Butler and Mike Laga added solo homers, and Gary Carter had three hits and two RBis. 
Lonnie Smith and Dave Jus­tice, with his 24th, had solo homers for Atlanta, 0-6 at Candlestick Park and 2-11 overall against the Giants: San Francisco has outscored At­lanta 108-44 in 13 games. 
Expos 6, Cardinals 2 
MONTREAL -Rookie Delino DeShields drove in a career­high four runs to support Oil Can Boyd, who has lost only two of his last 17 starts. 
Boyd (10-5), who has won three straight games, pitched seven innings. He allowed two runs on five hits, struck out two and walked two. 
DeShields had an RBI single off Bob Tewksbury (10-6) in the first to extend his team­high hitting streak to 14 games. DeShields drove in two runs with a double in the third and hit his fourth homer, a solo shot off Frank DiPino, in the fifth to give the Expos a 5-2 lead. 
In three games since being dropped from leadoff to third in the order, DeShields is 8-for­13 with nine RBis. Pedro Guer­rero and Ozzie Smith had RBis for St. Louis, which was elimi­nated in the NL East. 
Cubs 9, Phillies 3 
CHICAGO -Andre Dawson had a two-run single to highlight a six-run first inning by Chicago, and Ryne Sandberg tied for the league lead with his 34th homer. 
The Cubs, who scored 10 runs in the second inning Tuesday against Montreal, used three walks, four singles and an er­ror against Jose DeJesus (5-7). 
Sandberg tied San Fran­cisco's Kevin Mitchell for the league lead with a two-run homer in the fourth. One out later, Dawson hit his 23rd. 
Greg Maddux (13-13) went the first seven innings and im-


proved to 9-4 with a 1.95 ERA Dykstra went 1-for-3 to remain in his last 13 starts. in the league lead with a .336 Ricky Jordan hit a two-run batting average. homer for the Phillies, and Len 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. Join the Ad department or work in the Production aspect of the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. You'll be glad you did. 


~ 
l 
I
Thursday, September 13, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Bo's four RBI's, homerun, propel Royals 
Veteran Brett adds four hits as Blue Javs fall to 3 1/2 games behind Boston in AL East race 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­Bo Jackson drove in four runs, three with a first-inning homer, and George Brett had two triples among his four hits as the Kansas City Royals snapped a season-high nine-game losing streak and cooled off the Toronto Blue Jays 7-5 Wednesday night. 
Mark Davis, who led the majors with 44 saves a year ago, went two scoreless innings for his sixth save of a disappointing season and his first since May 7 as the Royals celebrated John Wathan's rehiring as manager. Wathan, who had come under heavy criticism, signed a one-year contract for 1991. 
The loss snapped the Blue Jays' six-game winning streak and dropped them four games behind Boston in the American League East. 
Brett's fourth four-hit game of the year raised his average to .3266129, just behind Oakland's Ricky Henderson at .3272311 for the league lead. 
Jackson's towering three-run homer gave Tom Gordon (11­
10) a 3-0 lead in the first inning. The blast over the center-field fence was measured at 430 feet and was Jackson's 24th. 
In the Royals' fourth, Kurt Stillwell doubled, went to third on an error by right fielder Junior Felix and scored on a single by Steve Jeltz. Brett's triple in the fifth was followed by Jackson's double, giving the Royals a 6-1 lead. 
Loser Todd Stottlemyre (13­
15) gave up six runs and 10 hits in five innings. 
The Blue Jays got a run in the fourth on Rob Ducey's RBI single, then scored four in the seventh to pull within 6-5. 
Ducey opened with a double, Manny Lee walked with one out and Felix singled to make it 6­
2. Mookie Wilson doubled a run across and, after Tony Fernandez grounded out, Kelly Gruber singled for two more. 
Kansas City scored a run off John Cerutti in the eighth on singles by Brian McRae, Steve Jeltz and Gary Thurman singled to second. 
Athletics 9, Mariners 3 
SEATTLE-Rookie Dan Howitt's first major league hit, an RBI triple, ignited Oakland's five-run sixth inning as the Athletics beat the Seattle Mariners 9-3 on Wednesday. 
Scott Sanderson (16-9) combined with three relievers for a seven-hitter as he matched his career high for victories, set with Montreal in 1980. The Athletics won for the ninth time in 10 games. 
Howitt's triple off Mike Gardiner (0-1) broke a 3-3 tie and Terry Steinbach added a two-run double in the sixth­inning rally. 
Ken Griffey Jr. drove in his 40-year-old father, Ken Sr., for the first time since Ken Sr. arrived in Seattle on Aug. 29, hitting a two-run homer in the first inning. 
Angels 8, Twins 6 
ANAHEIM, Calif.-Devon White drove in three runs with a two-run single and his 11th homer. Rookie Joe Grabe (2-3) staggered through six innings, yielding five runs and nine hits but got the win when the Angels erased a 5-4 Minnesota lead with three runs in the sixth against reliever Tim Drummond (3-5). 
California loaded the bases on infield hits by Dave Winfield and Dante Bichette and Lee Stevens' single. Winfield scored and the other ruriners advanced as Jack Howell grounded out and White's single to left scored Bichette and Stevens for a 7-5 lead. Johnny Ray hit his fourth homer off Drummond in the se.venth for California's final run 
Orioles 2, Tigers 1 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Jeff McKnight hit his first major league homer and Cal Ripken singled home the go-ahead run as Baltimore scored twice in 
the eighth inning. Rookie Ben McDonald (7-4) allowed three hits, striking out seven and walking three. Detroit's only run came on a first-inning single by Cecil Fielder, his 117th RBI. 
T.oser Jack Morris (11-18) took a two-hitter and a 1-0 lead into the eighth but McKnight broke a 1-for-20 slump with a homer. David Segui walked and was forced at second on an attempted sacrifice by Billy Ripken. But Steve Finley singled Ripken to third and went to second on a wild pitch and Brady Anderson was intentionally walked before Cal Ripken's game-winning single. 
Rangers 5, Yankees 4 
NEW YORK-New York's Steve Adkins made his major league debut by walking five consecutive batters in the second inning as Texas scored three runs without a hit. Adkins, who walked eight of the 11 batters he faced, did not give up a hit and retired the first batter in the second but then walked Mike Stanley, Steve Buechele, Scott Coolbaugh, Jeff Kunkel and John Russell, giving Texas a 2-0 lead. 
Mark Leiter relieved and walked Rafael Palmeiro, forcing home a third run. 

OUTDOORSADVENTURE! 
NEVER TRIED CAMPING? 
ONE-NIGHT CAMPING TRIP SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
POTATO CREEK STATE PARK 
REGISTRATION AND TRIP PREPARATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30-9:00PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM 
ROPE BRIDGES SHELTER BUILDING "OWL PROWLS" 
SPONSORED BYNVA 

JJllmiiClD~ ~ 
STARGAZING 


JJIP\JY li~IICCWIIWll <CcrDWWIIWIIII APPLICATIONS NOW AVAilABLE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE -3rd FLOOR lAFORTUNE Available positions include: 
Esec. Coordinator  Secretary Chairman  Hotels: Hospitality Chairman  
Dinner Chairman  Mass Chairman  Hall parties Chairman  
Brunch Chairman  Workshop Chairman  
Cocktail Chairman  Finance Chairman  
Help make  JPW  1991 one of the best weekends ofyour experience!!  

APPLICATIONS DUE SEPTEMBER 17 
SPoRTS BRIEFS 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 p.m., Room 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. All are welcome. 
The Notre Dame Cheerleadlng team, along with the Notre Dame Porn Pon squad, will give a performance in front of the bookstore on Saturday at 3 p.m. in preparation for the N.D.-Michigan game. 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will have its first meeting at 
8:30 p.m. tonight in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. All beginners are welcome. Any questions, call Nelson x3291. 
Tickets for "Irish on Ice," the ice-skating exhibition show featuring Dorothy Hamill, Lou Holtz and Dick Rosenthal, are now on sale at the Notre Dame box office at 239-7356. ND/SMC students may purchase reserved-seating tickets for $4 or general admission seats for $2. 

DRIVE STRAIGHt 
INDIANA. 
There's only
ORe way IO 

come outllllld 
olllle pack. 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 


Delivery areas limned to ensure safe driving. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
• 

OPEN FOR
IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ 
LUNCH
Call Us! 

NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave.
--------
--------
-------.,I
• I
ou've heard of Twin Peaks.SUNDAY DOUBLE Domino's Pizza is offering I
• I FEATURE I SPECIAL I 
OFF PEAKS I II Get 2 small pizzas I Ifyou order before 4pm I Get 1large original I I I and/or after 8pm, you can I pizza with your favorite I
each topped with
I I get 1 medium original pizza I topping for only $4.99. I
• I your favorite topping I with 2 toppings and 2 Cokes~ Valia Mondays & I I for $5.99 I for only $7.99 I Tuesdays orily. I 
I I . I
~~ I

I I :. ® I 
I II® I em® ! 
I v.lid at participating stcns only. Not valid with any Oilier offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax whent applbble. Oe!Mry areas may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Oe!Nery areas may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 1 
• 
I valid at partiapabnO stores only. Not valid wtlh any other oller. Prices I valid at participating stores only. NoC valid with any other otter. Prices I 

• 
I I ~mted to ensure safe driving. Our diNers carry less than S20.00 I ltmoted to ensure safe driving. Our driwrs carry less 1han S20.00. 


Mmiled to ensure safe drivino. Our diNers carry less than S20.00. Our diNers are not pena~zed for late delillenes. Our drivers an! not penahzed for late deiM!nes Our dnvers are not penalized for late deliveries. 

-
The Observer

Thursday, September 13, 1990 
ChiSox continue to flounder 
CLEVELAND (AP) ­
Bud Black won for the first time in more than a month and Brook Jacoby and Alex Cole each had four of Cleveland's 17 hits hits as the Indians pounded the slumping Chicago White Sox 12-2 Wednesday night. 
The loss was the sixth in seven games for the White Sox, who fell 11 games behind first­place Oakland in the American League West with 20 games remaining. The Athletics' magic number for clinching the divi­sion is 10. 
Stan Jefferson and Carlos Baerga homered for the Indi­ans, winners of four of their last five. 
Black (11-10) gave up eight hits, walked none and matched his season high with eight strikeouts in seven innings, ending a personal four-game losing streak. In his previous two starts, he was the victim of a no-hitter by Toronto's Dave Stieb and a shutout by Min­nesota. 
Melido Perez (12-14) lost for the fourth time in five starts, yielding five runs and nine hits in 5 1-3 innings 
Jefferson hit a solo home run in the third, his first this sea­son. Baerga put Cleveland ahead 2-1 with his seventh home run in the fourth and Alex Cole hit an RBI triple and scored on Felix Fermin's sacri­fice fly in the fifth. 

AP Photo 
Boston Manager Joe Morgan is a bit distraught at the_ umpires i~ a recent Red Sox game. Last night's 6-1 win should help h1m relax a bit. 

6573 Days Old ... 
CAN YOU BELIEVE IT ? 

Happy Birthday Maria! 

~~~~~~vvvvvvvvvvvvvv~~~~~~ 
The Indians added a run in the sixth on Dion James' RBI single and broke it open with three in the seventh on Jerry Browne's RBI single and Ja­coby's two-run single. Cole, who had four hits, tripled to start a four-run eighth, which included RBI singles by Fermin and Baerga. 
Chicago scored a run in the first on a double by Ivan Calderon and a single by Carl­ton Fisk and another in the sixth on rookie Frank Thomas' thir-d home run. 
Throughout the game, players swatted at flying insects that swarmed over the field for the second time in three nights. 


AP Photo 

The Chicago White Sox continue to struggle as of late. Their chances of catching the first-place A's are slim as they lost to Cleveland 12-2. 
Boston ends skid after beating Milwaukee 
BOSTON (AP) -Mike Bod­dicker stopped Boston's skid with a seven-hitter as the Red Sox ended a long homestand Wednesday night with a 6-1 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Ellis Burks and Carlos Quin­tana led a 13-hit with three singles each as the Red Sox, who began play three games ahead of second-place Toronto in the American League East, won for just the fourth time in 10 games and completed a 7-6 homestand. 
Boddicker (15-8) struck out three and didn't walk a batter as he reached the 15-victory mark for the second year in a row, a personal high since he won 20 for Baltimore in 1984. 
Milwaukee's Teddy Higuera (1 0-7) gave up all the Boston runs and 12 hits in six innings. 
The Red Sox took a 1-0 lead in the first on Wade Boggs' two­out double and Burks' single. In the second, Tom Brunansky singled and went to third on a single by Tony Pena, who took second on right fielder Rob Deer's throwing error. Luis Rivera scored both runners by grounding a single through a drawn-in infield. 
The Red Sox made it 4-0 in the fifth on a single by Quin­tana, a wild pickoff throw by Higuera and a single by Burks. 
The Brewers, who won the season series with Boston 8-5, spoiled Boddicker's shutout bid in the sixth. Paul Molitor broke an 0-for-16 slump with a lead­off triple and scored on Jim Gantner's grounder to first, which Quintana fumbled for an error. 
Boston added two insurance runs in the sixth on RBI singles by Quintana and Boggs, who raised his league-leading total hit total to 173 . 
•

Saint Mary's soccer cru1ses 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team continued its winning ways Tuesday by soundly defeating Tri-State University, 8-0, im­proving its record to 3-0. 
The Belles dominated throughout the game and con­sistently kept most of the play near the opponents goal. Freshman Shannon O'Toole be­gan the rout with a hard-hit goal to the far corner. Junior sweeper Kelly Cook scored the following goal 28 minutes into the half. Within the next ten minutes, sophomores Kristen Crowley, Stacey Winget and ju­nior Greer Gilliland each con­tributed to the Belles scoring efforts. 
In the early minutes of the second half, Gilliland, assisted by O'Toole, headed the ball into the net for the Belles sixth goal. Freshman Mandy Eiler capped off the defeat with two unas­sisted goals. 
Although the score indicates a 
Roya~~hire

( ENTER N 0 W! 1 I ~ J.~~~~.:;~;.,~.~·;.~~..
I 
~ 
;, 
! ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
:illlll 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
t:;::3 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
0 
:z: 
~ 
·
s:· 
z· 
· 

IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S IH SOCCER GRAD/FA C • SOCCER CAMPUS GOLF CAMPUS RUN AND FUN 
. a preseason favorite in the :illlll American League West but lost ~ its ninth straight game Tuesday ~ night, was re-hired Wednesday! as manager of the Kansas City
~Royals 
~ "I feel like I've been accepted ~ back into the family for another 
:i11111 
year," said Wathan, 40, who ~ has been with the Royals' ~~ organization since he was 21. 
111!!1 General Manager John ~ Schuerholz said during a newsI conference that Wathan had ~~ ~~~~:~ ~9~~-e-year contract 
~ "With what's happened this Ill!! year, I don't think I deserve a ~ multi-year contract," Wathan ~ said with a smile. 

ENTER IN THE NV A OFFICE, JACC ~ t::es~~nret-g:;n~hl~s}~~;~~~si! 
~ record. It plunged the Royals to :illlll 66-76, sixth place in a division ~ which they expected to win 

DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 13 ~ after huge investments in free-
Ill!! agent pitchers Mark Davis and 

~ 
:illlll 
~ 
:illlll 
Jill! 
fl.'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-''''''''''''''-''''''''-'''''~ Storm Davis inflated their pay-
decisively offensive game for the Belles, their defense also achieved its second shutout of the season. 
"Everyone contributed and played a good level and no one let down. The team's spirit made a significant impact on the team effort. The attitude of the team was excellent," said head coach Tom Van Meter. 
The Belles will travel to Indi­ana University-Bloomington on Sunday to face a competitive Hoosier club. 

Wathan 
roll to the highest in the major leagues. 
But Mark Davis, the 1989 Na­tional League Cy Young winner, has been ineffective from the beginning. Storm Davis, who pitched in relief Tuesday night, is 7-10 with a 4.74 ERA. Mark Davis lost his job as bullpen stopper at midseason and is now 1-7 with 
In addition, crippling injuries to such important players as pitchers Mark Gubicza and Bret Saberhagen and off-years by others helped doom the season and lead to speculation that Wathan was through. 
"We know circumstances around this year have been rather bizarre," Schuerholz said. "We do not believe those circumstances reflect on John's ability to manage the Kansas City Royals. This is the same man who managed 92 wins last year." 
Schuerholz said Wathan's coaching staff would be evalu­ated at the end of the season. 


page 18 
George, Meyer,hope Pats pay for errors 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) -In­dianapolis coach Ron Meyer used to be with New England. Indianapolis quarterback Jeff George thought he would be. On Sunday, they get a chance to beat the Patriots. 
The connections become more tangled when you consider Meyer's relationship with Patriots coach Rod Rust. 
In 1984, Meyer, then New England's head coach, fired Rust as defensive coordinator without management's ap­proval. Management responded the next day by firing Meyer and giving Rust his job back. 
"I have no ill feelings about Rod Rust whatsoever," Meyer said Wednesday. 
'This is a game between the Colts and the Patriots," Rust said of the meeting in Indi­anapolis, "not between the coaches." 
One of those Colts almost was a Patriot. 
New England was eager to take George with the third pick of this year's draft. And George liked the idea. He had relatives in Lowell, Mass., where he spent time during the summer. He would watch the Patriots' summer training in Smithfield, R.I. 
"New England was the team I heard from nearly every day" leading up to the draft, he said. "That's where I thought I was going to end up." 
But Atlanta had the top pick. 

The Colts were willing to pay the Falcons' price and gave up tackle Chris Hinton, wide re­ceiver Andre Rison and draft picks. The Patriots decided to deal the draft's third pick to Seattle for the eighth and 1Oth choices, which brought linebacker Chris Singleton and defensive end Ray Agnew. 
"A good choice for (the Colts) might not have been a good choice for us," Rust said. "We got Agnew and Singleton and I think that was a bigger prior­ity. 
"I liked the way (George) threw the ball. We all did," he said. Not making a trade to draft him "was one of those decisions based on the appar­ent price and did we want to pay it." 
While Rust was pleased with his own quarterbacks, Steve Grogan and Marc Wilson, in last Sunday's 27-24 loss to Mi­ami, he praised George's per­formance in a 26-10 loss to Buffalo-13-of-24 for for 160 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions. 
"What he's done has proven (the Colts) were right" in drafting him, Rust said. 
He even praised Meyer's coaching staff for trying to help George's introduction to NFL defenses while still making him the focal point of their offense with running back Eric Dickerson out because of a non-football injury and contract dispute. 

Racing president Balestre vows changes 
(AP)-Italy 
Jean-Marie Balestre of France, president of the Feder­ation International du Sport Automobile, the world sanction­ing body of auto racing, is talking tough. 
This past weekend at the Italian Grand. Prix in Monza, Balestre released a statement with a series of relatively minor rule changes for Formula One and the World Sportscar Championship. 
At the end of that statement was a paragraph announcing that Balestre will visit New York and Detroit "sometime soon" to discuss with an unidentified person or persons a proposed new FISA-sanctioned, worldwide oval-racing series. 
Presently, the only open 

wheel racing in the world is being done by CART, which, incidentally, has drawn FISA's wrath for its scheduled debut in Australia next March, as well as future plans to race in Japan. 
Balestre has said repeatedly that it is illegal for a domestic racing organization, such as CART, to race anywhere outside its own country and its con­tiguous neighbor countries. 
He reportedly told reporters in Italy that anyone taking part in a CART race in Australia ­including drivers, team-owners, crewmen, corner workers, of­ficials and car and engine man­ufacturers -would face a life­time ban from international racing. 
Now the Paris-based FISA is talking about having its own 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team played to an overtime 2-2 tie with Loyola Monday night in Chicago. 
The Irish, who beat the Ramblers twice last season by a combined score of 7-0, managed one goal in the 90-minute regulation period, sending the game into overtime. In the first 15-minute overtime period, Notre Dame scored a goal with 
oval-racing series, with "four or five event." That would likely include one each in the U.S., Australia, Japan and one or two 
in Europe. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway, whose famous 500­
• 
• • • 
• 
mile event is still sanctioned by • the U.S. Auto Club-not CART • -is currently acting as consul-• tant for a proposed replica of the 2.5-mile oval speedway in • Japan. • 
Sources close to FISA say that • Indianapolis officials could play • a major role in that orga­nization's oval series plans. • 
CART's offices are located in • a suburb of Detroit, but it is of-• ficials of the major American car companies that Balestre is • expected to visit in the U.S .• Their help would be invaluable • in planning and carrying out • such a new series. 

nine minutes left, but Loyola countered with a goal seven minutes later. 
In the second 15-minute 
overtime,  neither  team  
scored.  
In  game  action,  Jake  

Kreikemeier scored for Loyola at the 15:39 mark, putting the Ramblers up 1-0. 
The Irish tied the score 1-1 with 30:15 elapsed when Tom Connahan scored a goal on a pass from Danny Stebbins. 
Six minutes into overtime at the 96-minute mark, Steve LaVigne scored off a corner kick by Mitch Kern. 
In the 13th minute of the first overtime period and the 103rd minute overall, John Anderson of Loyola tied the score, 2-2. 
Notre Dame outshot the Ramblers 23-12. 
The next game for the Irish is a home contest versus Top-20 opponent St. Louis at Moose Krause Stadium Friday night at 7:30p.m. 

Baxter 
Come Talk to Us Careers in 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 

• 
Marketing 

• 
Operations 

• 
Information Systems 


Thursday, September 13, Noon -5:00 PM LaFortune Student Center -O'Hara Lounge Sponsored by Marketing and Management Clubs 
and A & L Business Society 
Wednesday, September 19, 6:00 -8:30 PM ACC -Monogram Room Sponsored by Finance Club 
Monday, September 24, 6:00 -9:00 PM ACC -Monogram Room Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi 
Wednesday, October 17, 7:00 -9:00 PM University Club -Upper Lounge Meet Baxter Night 
Sponsored by Baxter 
• 


Thursday, September 13, 1990 The Observer PIP 18 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Thursday
7 p.m. Lecture: Science Placement Night: Representa­tives from Ciba Corning Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, and The Prudential. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Fireside chat: "The Crisis of the Post-Indepen­dence African State," Theodore's. Sponsored by Notre Dame African Student Association. 
7:30 p.m. Slide show/lecture: "Sculptures of Stephen Luecking," Room 200 Riley Hall, Isis Gallery. Sponsored by Art, Art History and Design Departments. 
Friday
12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Con­cerns: "Notre Dame and the Year of Women," Eileen Kohman, Dean of Freshman Year of Studies and Chair. The Year of Women Committee. Room 124, Center for So­cial Concerns. Brown bag lunch. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Lemon Baked Cod Stir Fry Beef & Green Pepper Rice Rotellini w/Spring Vegetables 
ACROSS 
1 Maxims 
5 Like some cash 10 Freebie 14 Stuff 15 Signora's love 
1& Vocal 17 Glad eye 
18 Amber, e.g. 19 Lottolike game 20 A better hand 
than 42 Across 22 Aesop 
character 23 Joyous 24 Steep 26 Lascivious look 29 Like prodigies 
33 Intrude, with "in" 37 Game for one 39 Glacial ridges 40 Cases for trivia 41 Discarded 
cards 
42 Some good hands 44 Pursues 45 Brownish pigment 46 Bouillabaisse 48 Family members 50 Sooner 55 Karpov's game 58 Blackjack &1 Brooklet 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
CROSSWORD 
&2 Push 63 Rustic 64 Song for Freni 65 Havens 66 Pitcher 
Hershiser &7 Headlight &a Worn-out &9 Eye-shadow 
recipients 
DOWN 
1 Flout 2Wrangle 3 Ramparts 4 Silversides 5 Word of honor &Down Under 
bird 7 Fling aTrustworthy 9Craving 
10 Deadpan 
12 Serif or souci -"+-+;'-E-~ preceder
•••lJ$W-~n!~··· 13 Opening 
21 Vigorous 22 Temptation 
.::-:+:::+:~ .-.r.:-r.::.r::~E-1 25 Sponsorship ~~=-+::--+=B 27 Bible bk. 
...... 28 Stampedes!I 30Jade -=+:=-+::::+=-! 31 Actor Rhodes 
.;::.+;=+::+.=:-! 32 Society's newcomers, for short 


33 Foreman 52 Paradise nymph 57 Lamb's 34-spumante 53 Ran its course pseudonym 35 Steak order 54 Wavers 59 In the know 36 Bridge feat 55 Complain 
60 Unruffled 

38 Catalogue 56 Frank Tuttle's "This Gun for &2Author­
40Heavens! 
Passos43 Balin and Claire 44 Hit like Ruth 
47 Borgnine or Answers to any three clues in this 

Truex 

puzzle are available by touch-tone 49 Subway hanger phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 51 Yodeler's milieu minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

\,VHAI NOTP.£ PA,t<l£ WOl:ILD LOOK LIKE IF Tit£ T-sH IRI HAD NEVER 3EEt-i INV£NlED. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WELL, w1-11:.t-~ ~ GOT 1t:> mE Clf>..§ROO~, Wt. S~'t-1 ffi~T ALL \\-IE K.\0'3 1-\~D OR!\~~ 5Uf·POR\RM\'5 \N ~RT CLAS5, ~\llt> \.11\D LEFT 'ffit. ?ICT\JRt.'S ON 'ffi£.\R OCSKS SC -m£. 
P~Rt.~\5 WCAJLO REC~\Il\"ZE 'ffi£\R C\.1\LD's 5£1\\. I 
TII~Ts f\ 1\lERE Wt<.'S 00£ CIJ'tt IDEA. DAA\'J\~G r::k (\ DID '{OIJ GREEN ~lD 
FIND CAL~\1'\S Wrrn FAN.GS, 
PICI\JRE ~ SIX E.'<E5, AAO H\5 FINGER UP \\\5 NCSE. 



Sports

page 20 Thursday, September 13, 1990 
Meyer playing with confidence 
Scored two of three Irish goals in tourney 
By COQUESE WASHINGTON "Last year the team was ings, they still hope to break Sports Writer much more mechanical and into the Top 20 and earn their people were somewhat limited second NCAA tournament bid. 
First year men's soccer head in what they could do on the Meyer describes the current coach Mike Berticelli has field, but Coach Berticelli gives losses (both to Top-20 teams) as brought a new tone to the Irish. us a lot of freedom and we're encouraging. "We have playedThat attitude, according to allowed to be more creative," hard and looked good at times. Berticelli, "is a positive one, said Meyer. I feel we can play with and beat and it's about winning and The starting mid-fielder has any team in the country, on anythinking as a team." taken this newfound freedom given day." 
This philosophy has been and exploited it fully, showing This Friday, Meyer and com­wholly absorbed by junior some of the offensive skills that pany will get another crack at a Kenyon Meyer, whose strong garnered him all-regional and solid Top-20 squad, when the mid-field play has been the team MVP honors as a senior in 14th-ranked St. Louis Billikins, backbone of the men's soccer high school, without losing any the only team to ever hand team so far this season. The of the defensive tenacity he has Notre Dame a conference loss, Berticelli influence has pro­developed at Notre Dame. At travel to Krause Stadium for vided Meyer with much needed the recent Metropolitan Life what promises to be an exciting confidence, as well as tactical Classic in Durham, North match. knowledge of the game. Carolina, .Meyer tallied two of "This game will be a good 
the three team goals on the indicator of the team's progress
"I think I've learned more weekend against Top-20 teams, and will also provide the under Coach Berticelli in the playing well enough to earn a players with valuable expe­past few weeks, than I have in berth on the all-tournament rience early," said Meyer.
the past three years," said team. Already he has doubled "With good fan support, the Meyer. his statistical performance from squad can bring home a bigConsequently, Meyer's confi­last year, recording a total of win." 
dence has skyrocketed, elevat­three goals and six points. They also need the Kenyoning his play to new heights. "Coach Berticelli has really Meyer of late to show up on the After a freshman campaign in given me a lot of self-confi­field, for if Meyer continues to which he saw no game time, dence, and he is very encourag­play with such magnificent con­and a sophomore season where ing, which is the main reason fidence, St. Louis and future he was used mainly as a defen­why I've been playing well," Top-20 opponents won't have sive substitute, Meyer has said Meyer. an easy time when they face-off prospered under the new Although the Irish have with the Irish. coach's style of play. dropped two of their three out-
Hamill to skate at JACC in October 
By Scott Brutocao Trenary, 1989 U.S. men's Hockey League will enter the Assistant Sports Editor champion Christopher Bow­rink and skate with the hockey man, two-time national dance team and celebrity figure 
Olympic gold medalist champions Susan Wynne and skaters. Dorothy Hamill, Athletic Direc­Joseph Druar, and 1990 U.S. "We are very excited about tor Dick Rosenthal and hockey pairs bronze medalists Sharon this event," said Rosenthal. coach Ric Schafer announced Carz and Doug Williams. "We've had our share of na­Wednesday that the three will Hamill will take the ice with tional champions here at Notre join Lou Holtz and the Notre Holtz, Rosenthal and Schafer to Dame, but never the calibre of Dame hockey squad to present coach the trio on some of the national champion figure a figure skating and hockey ex­basics of figure skating. skaters you'll see here October hibition Oct. 8 at the Joyce Ath­"I am personally looking for­8." letic and Convocation Center. ward to getting you all out on The first event of the Ice 
"Irish on Ice," an event to the ice," said Hamill to Rosen­Skating Month will be held benefit the Notre Dame hockey thal and Schafer. "Hopefully (I Sept. 30 at the Mt. Vernon team and to raise awareness of can) show coach Holtz maybe a Recreation Center in Alexan­ice-skating activities during Nu­trick or two. I know he has a dria, Va., in which Hamill, traSweet Ice Skating Month, long list of things he wants to Bowman, 1990 Goodwill Games will occur at 7 p.m. on the ice accomplish in his lifetime, and I champion Kristi Yamaguchi and rink in the north dome of the don't think learning to figure various other performers will JACC. skate is one of them, but I put on a skating show. 
Activities will start with an promise that we're going to Throughout October, partici­intra-squad scrimmage by the show him a good time." pating ice rinks and skating Notre Dame hockey team, fol­After the exhibition, members lowed by skating performances of the Michiana Figure Skating 
see HAMILL I page 14 

by 1990 World Champion Jill Club and the Michiana Youth 
Former Irish assistant proves valuable to Michigan
t 

Gary Moeller is not the only 
missal from the university over the summer moved new coach at Michigan this Football Irish Extra: See tomorrow's Observer three freshmen into competition at the preparation year. for a special pullout section focusing on Saturday's stage. 
Mike Bossory, a former football game with Michigan. "Kent Graham, Jake Kelchner-if any one of those graduate assistant with the two things happened, we'd be fine," said Holtz. Notre Dame football team, left tivities of Notre Dame football players reached a ••• the university in late July to ridiculous peak this week when a Michigan daily Kelchner hopes to follow Tony Brooks's path back to accept a similar position with claimed members of the team were spotted mimicking Notre Dame. After his dismissal from the university for the Wolverines. Mirl-..:gan's fight song. academic reasons, Kelchner enrolled at Holy Cross 
Bossory, who was prepared to "I unequivocally deny that our players have mimicked College with the intention of reapplying to Notre Dame enter his third year with Notre Michigan's fight song," Holtz said at Tuesday's press next year. Dame, w?rked with the def~nse FRANK PASTOR conference. "Our football players have not done that, ••• an~ sat ~~ on team meetmgs F t b k nor would I allow them to do that." Nose tackle Chris Zorich, who Holtz describes as "the
tb 11 N
durrng sprmg oo a o e oo The absurdity of the situation lies in the fact that it pulse of our football team in many respects", has found 
practice. His wide familiarity was ever considered newsworthy in the first place. a new way to control his ferocity on the field. with the Irish system concerns ••• some Notre Dame officials on the eve of the Michigan The lack of a bona fide backup quarterback behind Instead of getting into fights (he was twice thrown out opener. Rick Mirer leaves the Irish offense unusually vulnera­of spring practice for engaging in on-field fisticuffs), 
"It was an unusual time for him to leave," said Head ble. Yet scant experience at quarterback is something Zorich has learned to augment his anger with laughter. Coach Lou Holtz, "but there are some things I just can't Holtz normally protects against. It's probably just as well, for Zorich estimates that he control. "I like to have four quarterbacks," said Holtz. "One loses nearly 14 sets of contacts during the course of a "I don't think he'd do anything to hurt Notre Dame, retiring, one playing, one preparing and one maturing." season. but he would do everything to help Michigan." With Tony Rice honing his skills in Canada and Kent "My mom sees me rubbing my eye during a game and ••• Graham now at Ohio State, Mirer was forced into the she thinks I got hit," Zorich says, "but I just lost another The media's suddeN. fascination with the off-field ac starting spot ahead of schedule. Jake Kelchner's dis-contact." 







