.----------------------.-----------------------------------------------------r~---------------------------------------------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 21 MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 1990 
.THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND students to attend conference on environment 
By DAVID KINNEY around the world to organize dents...and decision makers." It others. Billy Bragg and other corporation. Students should News Writer the future of the student will also allow students to shrug bands will perform during the have a say in what is done with movement. off the image of apathy and conference. the money that they invest in 
Members of Notre Dame's The objective of the confer­aimlessness with which they In addition, the Student their institutions, according to Environmental Action Club ence is not only to educate, but are often associated, she added. Environmental Action Coalition Denham. (EACJ plan to participate in a also to diversify the student ef­The two-day conference will (SEAC). sponsor of the event, Direct action is vital after the national conference which fort. According to a press re­feature many student-led work­will launch a campaign to conference; groups are encour­hopPs to develop better student lease, it will equip students shops on organizing environ­establish corporate environ­aged to participate in letter awanmnss of environmental is­with effective tactics for action mental groups and action. Also mental accountability. The writing campaigns, to boycott suns. and help participants create to be featured are several group plans to use job boycotts, jobs of companies who are not 
CATALYST. the National change at the campus level. speakers, including Ralph divestment campaigns, and environmentally sound, and to Studnnt Environmental "Students are key to these en­Nader, environmental advocate; direct action to affect corporate support Congressional bills that Conference, will be held on vironmental movements," said Helen Caldicott of Physicians behavior. help the environment. October 5-7 at the University of Helen Denham, CATALYST For Social Responsibility; The conference also plans to ND students hope to gain ed­Illinois in Champaign-Urbana. committee member. "A gather­Robert Redford, actor; Cesar address the issue of maintain­ucation and awareness of envi-Its aim is to bring together ing of 3000 students will have a Chavez, President of the United ing the environmental account­thousands of students from dramatic influence on both stu-Farm Workers; and several ability of the university as a 
see EAC I page 4 

Iraq threatens oil fields and Israel 
IRAQ (APJ-Iraq on Sunday to try to force it to give up threatened to destroy Middle Kuwait, Iraq said: "We will East oil fields and attack never allow anybody, Israel if other nations tried to whomever he may be, to force it from Kuwait. strangle the people of Iraq 
At the same time, Iraq without having himself apparently sought to improve strangled." relations with France, admitting that its soldiers had raided the French 
see GULF I page 4 
ambassador's residence in Kuwait 10 days ago. It apol­
Gas prices
ogized for the incursion, which sparked a wave of retaliatory expulsions and 

soar to

increased tensions between Iraq and European nations. Iraq also said it would not 

record high
attend the U.N. General Assembly session which opens LOS ANGELES (AP) -­Monday because its delegation Gasoline prices have hit an was not being allowed to all-time high in the wake of travel to New York on Iraqi the Persian Gulf crisis, with Airways. The airline has no the average pump price landing rights because of the jumping 2.91 cents per gallon 
U.N. trade embargo. in two weeks, an industry
Foreign women and analyst said Sunday. children wrenched from their "The new high doesn't take husbands and fathers flew into account inflation, but home on the last U.S.­even so, it's significant," said chartered flight from Trilby Lundberg, who Baghdad. publishes the Lundberg Letter. 
In Washington, top finance She said her latest twice­officials from the world's monthly survey of 18,500 wealthiest nations met for a gasoline stations nationwide second day, seeking to forge a showed motorists were paying united front against threats to an average of 138.35 cents the global economy stemming per gallon. The survey was
Moving wall 
from the gulf crisis. They met with mixed success.
Joanne Koren, center, wipes her eyes as a candle is lit during the first day of the Vietnam Veteran see GAS I page 4
In warning other nations not
Memorial "Moving Wall" in Greenville, S.C., Thursday. Koren's son is now in the Middle East. 

Government report calls for better ways of avoiding teen pregnancy 
WASIIINGTON (API -The fnderal government spent more than $21.5 billion last ynar on welfare programs for families started by ttwn-agers. aer.ording to a report released Sunday. 
The amount is $1.7 billion higher than for 1988 -partly because of inflation and expansion of Medicaid benefits, but also due to an increase in births to teen­agers, said the Center for Population Options report. 
Thn figures illustrate the nned for greater efforts to prevent teen-age pregnancies -including sex education, family planning counseling, support for delaying sexual activity, access to contraception, and medical services, including abortion, the report said. 
"We can no longer let our youth stumble into parenting, a course that should be em­barked on only when one is ready, willing and able to be­come a parent," the report said. 
The costs of teen-age preg­nancies go far beyond those of public support, the report said. 
"Too-early childbearing often impoverishes ... the lives of girls brought too soon into the rigors and responsibilities of motherhood, of boys bewil­dered and unable to parent and provide adequately, of babies not planned or welcomed," the report said. 
"It places a heavy burden on families and communities and contributes to our country's unconscionably high rates of low birthweight and neonatal mortality," it said. 
The most alarming increases in teen-age pregnancies are occurring among 15 to 17 year olds, the report said. 
After a downward trend in births among this age group from 1970 into the mid 1980s, the rate began increasing. It jumped from 30.6 per 1,000 teen-agers in 1986 to 33.8 in 1988, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. 



ND to hold conference on church gatherings 
By JESSICA been an emphasis of tho ZIEMBROWSKI RENEW program, aeeording News Writer to Father Robert Pelton, host of the conforenee and 
Invigoration of Catholic director of Notre Dame's parish life will be the subject Institute for Pastoral and of discussion at a Notre Dame Social Ministry. HENEW is a conference, titled "Toward a twelve year-old, nationwide Small Christian Community parish renewal project. Model of Church in U.S. 
parishes." Pelton hopes that the 
The conference, running m1;1eting will accomplish a from September 30 to "consensus statement October 3. will focus on addressed to the Catholic existing parochial structures bishops of the U.S. on the and the prospect of changing appropriate role of the small church gatherings to those faith communities." where members pray, study Notre Dame plans to host scripture, and commit and facilitate a national themselves to service together consultation that will follow on a larger scale. 
Such experimentation has see CHURCH I page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Roadtripping: a learning experience? 
On the road again, I just can't wait to get on the road again ... 
Ahh. what a wicked web we weave when we commence to roadtrippin.' The Irish went to East 


Lansing this weekend John O'Brien 
and won big-on the 
field and off. I, as an Managing Editor upstanding member of the University media, decided it was my job to file a report from an exotic place. 
As that was not possible, I settled for MSU. From this trip, I acquired a plethora, no-a myriad, no-make that a cornucopia of knowledge. 
First, my colleagues on this roadtrip pro­vided me with the most useful knowledge. With this being the Year of Women and all, I decided to venture north with five -count 'em FIVE-young ladies. When they can­celled out, I was stuck with 5 ND chicks. 
The old saying says, "When in Rome, do as Romans do." While none of these ladies were actually Roman, I decided to spend the roadtrip being just "one of the girls." Thus, before I left, I learned all the words to "I Am Woman" by Helen Reddy, bought some "coolers," and even got some of those Leprechaun face tattoos for the big game. 
I spent Friday night in a room at the Knights Inn with all five of the women, or more accurately on the floor of a room at the Knights Inn while the other five hogged the prime sleeping space (If you're reading this, Mom, don't worry-they're all in the convent program here and it was totally­almost painfully-platonic.) 
Let me tell the men out there that I've been to the other side and I now know that women are just like us. Yes guys, they snore, they have cottonmouth breath in the morning, and in what must be the God-given equalizer, they pass gas. I'm serious. 
Second, I learned that streets in East Lansing, and probably Michigan in general, are really weird. In three days, we drove for about 13.6 hours on a street called "Saginaw." I have come to the conclusion that all streets in East Lansing are actually one street-"Saginaw." 
For example, to get to Dooley's Bar from the Knights Inn, you take "Saginaw" north to "Saginaw," and follow that for two miles until you hit "Saginaw." Turn right and there you are-Dooley's-1034 S. Saginaw. 
Next, I discovered that the only way to get around East Lansing is in an open convert­ible packed with five women. People who saw us cruising down "Saginaw" in the car probably thought I was a pimp, or at the very least, a stud. As anyone who knows me will attest, neither of these is true. 
What is true, however, is that roadtrip­ping can be both fun AND educational. If you have never gone on a roadtrip, do it be­fore it's too late. You never know what you might learn. And if you're considering going to the Tennessee game, call me. I have rela­tives there. They live on "Saginaw." 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 

Business Ken Tysiac News Chrissy Ciletti Peter Loftus 
Scoreboard 
Christine Walsh Siobhan McCarthy Colleen Gannon 

Production 
Rene Ferran

Michelle Wood Karen Newlove Ad Design 
Accent 

Lisa Gunsorek VIewpoint Cristina Ortiz Anita Covelli 
Becky Richler Shonda Wilson Tony Paganelli Paul Pearson Joy Harris 
Systems Sports
Paul Froning Circulation Fritz Valsaint 
Chris Cooney Bill O'Roukrke Matt Novak 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, September 24, 1990 
r--------------------·-··-·-­
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Monday, Sept 24. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
90 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

® © ~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
80 
Yesterday's high: 53 
Yesterday's low: 47 
Nation's high: 100 
(Yuma, AZ) 
Nation's low: 2 3 
(Wisdom, MT) 
Forecast: Mostly 
sunny today. Warmer, 
with highs in the upper 
60s. Clear tonight and 
cool, with a low in the 
upper 40's. Mostly 
sunny tomorrow. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
A

~ ~ 


FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
Freshmen Registers will be distributed September 25, 26 and 27 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Information Desk in LaFortune Student Center. 
Memorial Service to be held for Liz Baer and Regi Symonds, Class of '93. The mass will be held at 4:45 
p.m. at the Church of Loretto today. 
Jesse Jackson, civil rights ac­tivist said Sunday that he hoped to mediate a solution to the standoff between police and Mohawk Indians in off began over plans to sell property in Montreal, Canada. The standoff began over the town of Oka, which Mohawks claim is ancestral land. Army spokesman Maj. John Paul MacDonald 
said Jackson will be denied access to the treatment center, where protesting Mohawks are surrounded by police. 
NATIONAL 

Newlyweds Kenneth and Stephanie Miller did not have the marriage made in heaven that they had envi­sioned, but they were in good spirits after the hot-air balloon they exchanged their vows in crashed into a tree in Nevada last Saturday. The balloon, with six people aboard, was launched at Gardnerville, Nev., 15 miles east of Lake Tahoe. An unexpected easterly breeze caught it and sent it west. The balloon deflated after it struck a tree and landed in Kinsbury Grade. The basket fell slowly to the ground, and no one was hurt. The reverend who performed the service commented, "We do specialty wed­dings but we don't guarantee such exciting landings." 
INDIANA 

Sheriff Charles Mulligan said that the marijuana harvesters who flock to Newton County, Indiana on weekends could wind up staying much longer than they planned. Seventy­eight "pot pickers" have already been arrested and jailed since the illegal plant became ready for harvest in July. Mulligan said authorities are pa­trolling fields continuously. Most of the pickers are charged with the possession of more than 30 grams of marijuana, a class d felony charge punishable by two years in jail and a fine of up to $10,000. 
College students from around the state met in Indianapolis on Sunday, September 16 to organize efforts for Senator Coats' upcoming Campaign. College Hoosiers for Coats coordina­tors gathered at the Waterfront Plaza Hotel for a preview of events which college students will or­ganize at their individual campuses. Those people wishing to help with the Coats Campaign effort at Notre Dame can contact coordinator Tom Ehrhardt at 283-1121, or the campaign head­quarters at 1-800-589-8683. 
WORLD 

Jack Herer, environmental activist and author of a book on the potential of cannabis and hemp as renewable, non-polluting sources of energy for transportation and industry, will give a talk in the Multi-Purpose Room of the esc today at 7:30p.m. 
CSC Mexico Project meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the CSC. For more information, call Lauren 273-1380 or Kathy 277-9406. 
The heaviest rainstorm in 90 years flooded large sections of Chihuahua City, Mexico on Sunday, killing at least 40 people and leaving more than 5,000 homeless, authorities said.The storm hit Saturday night in the area around Chihuahua City, about 200 miles south of El Paso, Texas. Authorities feared that the Chihuahua and Chuviscas dams would overflow and firemen, police and army troops began evacuating 10 neighborhoods near the two dams on Sunday night. More than 350 homes were destroyed and another 1,000 damaged, said Gov. Fernando Baeza Melendez. 

ALMANAC On September 24: 
eln1789: Congress passed the First Judiciary Act, which provided for an Attorney General and a Supreme Court. 
eln 1934: Babe Ruth made his 
farewell appearance as a regular 
baseball player with the New York 
Yankees in a game lost to the Boston 
Red Sox 5-0. 
eln 1988: Members of the eastern Massachusetts Episcopal diocese elected Barbara Harris to be the first woman bishop in the church's history. 
eTen years ago: Polish labor leader Lech Walesa formally applied to have the Solidarity independent trade movement certified by officials in 
Warsaw. 

"The Cosby Show" drew more than twice the num­ber of viewers than a repeat of Fox's cartoon clan, "The Simpsons," national Nielsen audience estimates showed Friday in New York. Bill Cosby's TV family averaged a 
19.8 rating on Thursday night. Fox, which startled the industry by scheduling "The Simpsons" opposite Cosby's series, got only an 8.3 rating for its show. Part of Fox's lower rating is due to the fact that it only has 13 3 affili­ates, compared to more than 200 each for NBC, CBS and ABC. Another new series premiering Thursday, CBS' "The Flash," was second to Cosby's show in head-on competi­
tion. 
for Sept. 21, 1990 
Volume in shares 

201.05 Million 
NYSE Index 171.03 •.19 S&P Composite 311.32 •.16 Dow Jones Industrials 2,512.38 • 5.94 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.30 to $ 389.40/oz. 
Silver t-1.2¢ to$ 4.790/oz. 


--~--------------~-~-~---­
, -~--------l~•••Jttag~ement training program combines ~_ __________________. First Chicago with year-round
---.----------··----~· 



evening division of The University '"".,..,uuu.~" School of Business or the J.L. 
Monday, September 24, 1990 



Witness describes Doe's grisly death 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (AP) -Grisly details emerged Sunday about the torture­slaying of former Liberian Pr11sident Samuel Doe, who dind earlier this month at the hands of rebels led by Prince Johnson. 
In Liberia's capital of Monrovia, meanwhile, a eease-fire continued to hold between two rebnl factions, a West African army and soldiers of the deposed leader. 
In an account in London's Sunday Observer newspaper, a Lebanese merchant from Monrovia said he watched Johnson's men torture Doe aft1~r thn president was cap­tured during a battle Sept. 9 at the headquarters of the West African army. 
"Doe's hands were cuffed to­gether and he had been shot in both legs and was bleeding heavily. They were abusing him," said the merchant, identifind only as Joseph. 
"Then one of Johnson's men took a knife, a machete, and cut off his ear. Then they cut his face like this," he told the nnwspaper, indicating diagonal slashes across the cheeks. "lie was crying and the blood was running down his cheeks from his face and head." 
The man said Doe at one point blew on the blood that had pooled on his body, and "one of Johnson's men thought he was trying to do some kind of juju (magic), blowing on himself to make himself disappear." 
"So he shot him again," the merchant continued. "He was nearly dead then, anyway, from loss of blood." The man said that was the last he saw of Doe. 
The Observer also quoted a Liberian teacher, identified only as Oliver, as saying he saw Doe's body later in the day. 
"They had him in a wheelbarrow and were pushing the body around the town. They were shouting, 'We've killed Doe,' and firing their guns in the air. 
"People were coming up to the body and cutting it with knives. Slashing at him. He had two fingers, maybe three, missing from one hand and they had cut off his testicles," the teacher said. 
"Then they took his body to the Island Clinic. For the first two or three days a lot of peo­ple were going to see it, but then the smell got too bad," Oliver said. 
Both witnesses were inter­viewed in Freetown, Sierra Leone. 
Their description was remi­niscent of an October 1985 scene when Doe put the muti­lated body of Brig. Gen. Thomas Quiwonkpa on display in an open car that toured Monrovia. 
Quiwonkpa was a mentor of Johnson, who served under the former army commander when Quiwonkpa tried to overthrow Doe and was captured. 
The Observer page 3 
Iraqis wait for bread AP Photo 
Iraqis line up in Baghdad Thursday for bread which is being rationed in response to the U.N. trade em­bargo. The U.N. embargo may be extended to the air under a resolution being considered by the U.N. Security Council. 
IU's trustees will study proposal to ban ROTC over program's homosexual policy 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Indiana University trustees have agreed to study a request from students to ban the ROTC program if military policy toward homosexuals doesn't change. 
The Bloomington student Senate approved such a resolution last week by a 16-3 vote. 
The students are seeking a ban on the student military organization if the U.S. military doesn't begin allowing homosexuals into the service by 1995. 
lU-Bloomington Student Association President Jerry Knight presented the request at the trustees' business meeting Saturday morning. 
Trustee John Walda said the panel wants feedback about ROTC from student groups on other campuses. They also need information about the effect of such a ban on military science classes and student scholarships. 
Trustee Robert McKinney noted that IU has about $2.5 million worth of Department of Defense grants in health areas "and we'd hate to lose those." 
About 300 students are in ROTC on the Bloomington campus. Although gay stu­dents may take ROTC classes, they may not enlist as many students do after the first two years of classes, and are not eligible for ROTC scholarships. 

To ftndo~ stop by our Information Session 
~·. ~ 

at tiJt MilP.U,/ld Notre Dame Room, 6:00-8.·00 p.m. 
BeltaJ!J1er 25, 1990 
......
--~~~-~ 
• 
page 4 


Gulf 

continued from page 1 
"The oil areas in Saudi Arabia and in other states of the region, all the oil installa­tions, will be rendered inca­pable ... and Israel will be transformed into something different from what they are now," said an Iraqi government statement broadcast by state-run Radio Baghdad and monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus. 
"America must realize clearly that it is pushing the entire region . . . in fact, even the whole world ... to the brink of a bottomless abyss, from which the region will never see light for dozens of years," said the statement, translated from Arabic by The Associated Press. 
Iraq's decision to stay away from the General Assembly session was reported by the official Iraqi News Agency. It said Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz told U.N. Secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar that Iraq's delegation would not come to New York unless restrictions on Iraqi Airways, its flag carrier, were lifted. 
A State Department official said the matter was still under consideration. 
In any event, Iraq was hardly likely to get a warm welcome at the United Nations. The Security Council was to meet Tuesday and 
EAC 
continued from page 1 
ronmental issues through the conference, according to Amy Jenista, Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the EAC on campus. "We have a lot of energy in this club. This confer­ence will help us to know what we can do and how we can get organized." 
The ND club has been at­tempting to affect the environ­mental issue through both edu­cation and action. EAC spon­sors speakers around the University and keeps students informed about some of the most pressing issues. 
The group has attempted to designate some of the land owned by the University as wilderness areas, to support recycling, and to reduce the amount of paper waste on campus. The club is also push­ing for an environmental audit of ND in order to determine problem areas. 
The EAC hopes that the con­ference will lead to direct talks with the Administration about issues on which the club is working and an increased awareness of students on cam­pus. 
"I think everyone should be aware," said Jenista. "It (the environment) should be some­thing that everyone should feel personally responsible to find out about." 
She encourages all students to attend the conference. "Going to a conference like this will really shock a lot of people into understanding how press­ing the issues are." 
"I don't think it's a fad ... the issues are real and they're not going away," Jenista added. 
Anyone interested in attend­ing the conference or joining the Environmental Action Club should contact Jenista. 
consider tightening the trade embargo against Baghdad with an air blockade. Baghdad also was expected to come in for widespread condemnation in General Assembly debate. 
Among the first scheduled to speak was French President Francois Mitterrand, who dis­patched troops to the gulf after Iraqi soldiers violated French and other diplomatic compounds in Kuwait earlier this month. 
The Iraqi Foreign Ministry Sunday apologized for the Sept. 14 raid. It said its soldiers had not realized they were entering the French ambassador's residence because the house was outside the diplomatic quarter of Kuwait City. Iraq previously had denied the raid took place. 
The first units of a French rapid deployment force arrived in the gulf region Sunday, joining tens of thousands of U.S. troops deployed in the Saudi Arabian desert. 
Secretary of State James Baker said that despite the huge deployment, the United States was still seeking non­military means of forcing Iraq out of Kuwait. 
Baker, interviewed Sunday on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press," was asked about the possibility of war. "We have said many times we hoped there won't be," he replied, but added that President Bush was not ruling out any 
AIDS quilt at MIT 
The Observer Monday, September 24, 1990 


Desert diplomats 
AP Photo A southern sergeant and a Saudi trucker make a cross-cultural connection Thursday while pausing from their respective labors at a desert airbase. U.S. Army transportation officer Sgt. Marvin Smith, right, of Birmingham, Ala., and his friend spent their break time learning more about each other's customs and 


common concerns. 
options. 
Meanwhile, a charter flight carrying 112 evacuees from Iraq and Kuwait left London for North Carolina on Sunday. The passengers had left Baghdad a day earlier aboard what the State Department said was the last U.S.­chartered airlift planned from Iraq. 
At the London stopover, the exhausted evacuees told of hardship and terror in Kuwait and Iraq. Western women and children have been allowed to leave, but the Baghdad gov­ernment has kept foreign men captive to serve as human shields at strategic sites. 
AP Photo 

Robert Canterbury, 44, of Boston stands Thursday among some of the 1,000 panels of the International AIDS Memorial Quilt placed for exhibit at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass. 
Gas 
continued from page 1 
conducted Friday. 
The previous record high was just under 138 cents, set in March 1981, she said. 
Motorists were spending an average of 135.44 cents a gal­lon for gasoline on Sept. 7, Lundberg said. 
Fear of war in the Middle East in the wake of Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of neighboring Kuwait and a subsequent mili­tary buildup have caused oil prices to fluctuate greatly in recent days, said Lundberg. 
"The fears are that a war could create a serious supply upheaval and that supply re­placement could be difficult," she said. 
Those fears are causing the price of crude to go up and, in turn, pushing up gasoline prices, she said . 
Analysts cited continued fear of war in the Middle East among reasons for the surge in crude oil prices during late futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Friday. 
The price of crude oil for October delivery rose $1.53 a barrel, to $34.71. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS 




TOLEDO,-· SPAIN 
1991 ACAQE.MJC _YEAR 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR CARLOS JEREZ-FARRAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1990 4:30P.M. ROOM 114 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BLOWDRY
$1195 

• No Appointment! 
• 7 Days a Week! 
• FBEE Tanning ­Buy4-Get4 FREE! 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTUR!: GRAPE RD.. MISHAWAKA 
277-7946 

Monday, September 24, 1990 

The Observer/Kenneth Osgood 
POWs and MIAs remembered 
ROTC students from all three branches hold flags at a ceremony marking "Indiana POW and MIA Recognition Day," held Friday at the Library auditorium. South Bend Mayor and Notre Dame gradu­ate, Joe Kernan, a former Vietnam POW, addressed those gath­ered for the service. 

The Observer pageS 

Firing of Dallas police chief highlights city's racial woes 
DALLAS (AP) -A black county commissioner's threat that a violent street war would erupt if the city hires a "good old boy" police chief exposed festering racial tensions that some say threaten to tear Dallas apart. 
"The problem in Dallas is not the minority community and the Dallas Police Department," said Pettis Norman, a former Dallas Cowboys football star who is now a successful local businessman. "The problem is the institutionalized racism we have in Dallas." 
As the talk turned last week to who would replace the ousted Mack Vines as police chief, minority activist and County Commissioner John Wiley Price issued a call to arms. He warned that Vines, a white whose policies were praised by minority leaders, had better not be replaced by a "good old boy" -a traditional Southern white. 
If that happened, Price said, 
a violent street war would 
follow in which he and others 
would shoot at police and 
"take this whole city." 

Although shocking, Price's 
words were only the latest of 
several indicators that all is 
far from well in this city of 
nearly 1 million residents, of 
which about a third are black: 
•The southern suburbs are 
. threatening to secede amid reports that more tax money is spent in affluent, mostly white North Dallas. 
•In 
December, residents go to the polls to vote on a referendum that would eliminate at-large City Council districts, which a judge ruled dilute minority voting strength. 

•Last 
month, a Dallas Times Herald survey of 1988 sentencing revealed killers and rapists whose victims were white received harsher punishment than those whose victims were black or 


Tim Moses Computer Science Vanderbilt University 
"Macintosh practically eliminates the need to keep manual<; next to my computer, because­regardless ofwhich program I'm using­!can open, close, save, and print files in exactly 
the same way And you can't say that about any other computer. "Today lots ofother computers are attempting 
to look and work like aMacintosh, but it's just not possible.They're too fundamentally different to begin with.111is may sound alittle strange, but 
comparing aMacintosh to other computers ,''?it<:· is like comparing apples to oranges. .·.. ':~:,:;,:~f-j,;.~~,.~, Y<lll can squash the orange into ·' :_(:l~~~i~;:\;*:···· ·.~:~\, shape and paint it to look like an 
·
.--~~r·.·p·-~r-.· .. 

.··,/· i :, ·;:,~~~f/!f' ;!;';j1; / · L:... . : lif!!1-i 
. ······:.·,..!. ·. 
· "!!.-.·: ..::· 
,.::-· •·.! 
·.~ . · <· apple, but u~.der~eath the makeup, Its still an orange. 
.
"It's tunnv-I work at the Vanderbilt " computer store and I've seen lots ofpeople switch from other com­
puters to Macintosh, but I've never seen anybcx:ly with aMacintosh 
switch to another 
computer." 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Why do people love Macintosh®? Ask them. 

C 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple,the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc 
Hispanic. 
•A Dallas Morning News survey in 1988 reported that 44 percent of the city's black population and 44 percent of its white population agree race relations have deteriorated within the past five years. 
"Change must take place now that lessens racial po­larization and bridges the gaps between our people," a task force called Dallas Together concluded last year. The force was formed after a record number of police shootings of citizens, most of them black or Hispanic, in 1988. 
Norman said the racism extends beyond the police department and includes churches that don't denounce racism and a business community that makes it hard for black business people to get loans. 
Israelis debate Arab retaliation 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israeli Cabinet ministers recommended Sunday that Israelis be allowed to shoot more freely at Arab rock­throwers and retaliate forcefully for the death of a reservist stoned and burned in his car by Palestinians. 
For the fourth day, the army clamped a curfew on the El Bureij refugee camp in the oc­cupied Gaza Strip, where Capt. Amnon Pomeranz was slain Thursday. 
Vengeful Jews stoned cars of Arab laborers leaving for work in Israel Sunday morning, forcing many to turn back, Israel radio said. A 47­year-old Gaza man was hospitalized with head wounds, Arab reports said. 
"This is a murder that cannot be ignored or regarded as statistics," said the right­wing agriculture minister, Rafael Eitan. 
"The  punishment  they  
deserve  is  ...  that  today,  
tonight,  we  need  to  go in  

there, grab 200 local youths and deport them to Lebanon," he said in an interview. 
"No stone should be left standing around the gutted car; the residents should be prevented from going to work or traveling on the roads until they decide if they want war or not. If they do, they will get it," said Eitan. a former army chief of staff. 
Health Minister Ehud Olmert said on Israel radio and television that any civilian or soldier surrounded by Palestinians "must feel he can use his gun and kill those who want to kill him, plain and simple." 
The comments reflected the shock felt in Israel over the killing, which came at a time when many believed the 34­month-old Palestinian uprising in the occupied lands was waning. 
The Palestine Liberation Organization on Sunday called for the escalation of the upris­ing in the West Bank and Gaza Strip to confront "a new Israeli plan to step up the use of fire and gas bombs." 

page 6 The Observer Monday, September 24, 1990 
Krushchev critical of Castro in memoirs 
NEW YORK (AP) -Nikita Khrushchev, in memoirs dic­tated in the late 1960s but just now released, called Fidel Castro hotheaded for advocat­ing a nuclear strike against the United States during the Cuban missile crisis. 
Khrushchev, who was ousted from power in the Soviet Union in 1964 and who died in 1971, also thanked Julius and Ethel Rosenberg for helping the Soviet Union develop the atomic bomb. 
Khrushchev made a series of tapes as he lived out his last seven years under virtual house arrest in the village of Petrovo-Dalneye, on the outskirts of Moscow. Many of the tapes were smuggled to the West and two volumes of memoirs, "Khrushchev Remembers" and "Khrushchev Remembers: The Last Testament" were pub­lished in the 1970s. 
But Khrushchev's friends and relatives withheld some of the tapes, fearing that he had been too candid. Last year, Time magazine acquired the tapes. Excerpts were published in the Oct. 1 issue and another book, "Khrushchev Remembers: The Glasnost Tapes," is due out in October from Little, Brown. 
In the memoirs, Khrushchev said Josef Stalin was grateful to the Rosenbergs, who were executed in 1953 after being convicted of conspiracy to commit espionage by spying on American atom bomb secrets for the Soviet Union. 
Khrushchev said: "I was part of Stalin's circle when he mentioned the Rosenbergs with warmth. I cannot specifically say what kind of help they gave us, but I heard from both Stalin and (Vyacheslav) Molotov, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, that the Rosenbergs provided very significant help in accelerating the production of our atom bomb. 
"Let this be a worthy tribute to the memory of those 

Church 
continued from page 1 
up on a parish study which reported that "core Catholics have indicated they would like to experience community more deeply," said Pelton. 
The data from the study will be analyzed and presented to various bishops attending from around the United States. Presentations will be given by various professors of theology, including David Leege, profes­sor of Government and director of the Program for Research on Religion, Church and Society at Notre Dame. 
ceJ 

people. Let my words serve as an expression of gratitude to those who sacrificed their lives to a great cause of the Soviet state at a time when the U.S. was using its advantage over us to blackmail our state and un­dermine our proletarian cause," he added. 
On the Cuban missile crisis, Khrushchev said the Soviets decided to place missiles in Cuba to deter the United States from an invasion. 
Khrushchev said President Kennedy "understood that in spite of the American advan­tages, the missiles we had al­ready installed could strike New York City, Washington and other centers." 
Then, Khrushchev recalled, intelligence reports indicated that the United States was preparing to strike Cuba and that an invasion was unavoid­able. 
"Castro suggested that to prevent our nuclear missiles from being destroyed, we should launch a pre-emptive strike against the U.S.," he said. "My comrades in the leadership and I realized that our friend Fidel totally failed to understand our purpose. We had installed the missiles not for the purpose of attacking the U.S. but to keep the U.S. from attacking Cuba." 
Khrushchev said Kennedy then sent a message "somewhere between threat and prayer; he both demanded and begged that we remove the missiles. We agreed to remove the rockets and warheads if the president would publicly give assurance, in his own name and that of his allies, that their armed forces would not invade Cuba." 
Kennedy did. 

"Castro was hotheaded. He thought we were retreating ­worse, capitulating. He did not understand that our action was necessary to prevent a military confrontation." Khrushchev said. 




A small Indian boy studie~ his empty plate as he waits for a meal at the Azrac refugee camp Thursday. The camp, located 63 m1les east of Amman, is reported to be able to prepare one meal a day for refugees from Iraq even for children and babies. 
City officials unhappy with Census figures 
WASHINGTON (AP) -From the great cities to the small towns, America's municipalities are telling the federal government they can't possibly be as small as census takers say. 
By the thousands, local officials are demanding something be done about the 1990 Census. Even states are contesting the preliminary figures, aware that the more residents they are credited with, the more federal aid they will get and the greater their representation in Congress will be. 

Some voices from the na­tionwide chorus: 
•"Unadulterated 
nonsense ... statistical grand larceny," said New York Mayor David N. Dinkins. 

• 
"There are errors ev­erywhere," said Detroit re­search director Juliette Okotie-Eboh. 

•"It 
really stretches credibility to the breaking point," said Hartford, Conn., Mayor Carrie Saxon Perry. 

•"They 
missed our farthest south street," said Hays, Iowa, City Oerk Judy Grothe. 




The Arctic tern spends three months of each year in the Tel: 593-3783 Arctic regions, three months in the Antarctic and almost 

Saint Louis University In Madrid
) 

Bravo Murillo, 38 Edlflclo Gonzaga, Planta BaJa Madrid 28015 Spain 
All were reacting to the preliminary results of the Census Bureau's April15 head count. 
The preliminary reports were sent out in late August and early this month to give officials a chance to file challenges in time for the bureau to double-check its numbers before announcing its fmal count Dec. 31. 
Census Director Barbara Everitt Bryant has already told Congress there will be big changes in the initial numbers. 
Saint Louis University's 
Academic Year In Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: Engnsh, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU In Madrid Is a member of AAIEOE 
Oraduate Courses oHered durtng Summer Session 

Apply NOW for Spring, Summer nnd Fall 
More than 1,000 students In the Program. 
Contact: 
Saint Louis University Study Abroad Coordinator Admissions Office 221 North Grand Blvd. St. Louis, MO 63103 Toll-free tel: 1-800-325-6666 

six months in the air. 
September 25 
Dr. Cutrofello 
Haggar Parlor 
Strums some 


From 9:00 -11:00 p.m.
f(}.e;edo.~ Bob Dylan 
Free Nachos! Sponsored by SAB 

Monday, September 24, 1990 The Observer 

AP Photo

Anti-U.S. coeds 
Coeds from an exclusive Roman Catholic university chant anti-US slogans as an American flag is burned before them during a brief rally inside their campus to protest the ongoing talks on the future of US militar bases in the Philli ines. 
Irate New Jersey taxpayers protest governor's record-high tax hike 
THENTON. N.J. (API ­Thousands of New Jersey tax­payers gathered at the StatehousP on Sunday to protest $2.8 billion in tax hikes. 
Protestnrs focused their anger on Gov. Jim Florio ­hanging his likeness in effigy, hawking $2 posters of Florio disguist~d as Adolf Hitler and singing anti-Florin songs. 
The eVfmt was organized by Hands Across New Jersey, the group leading a stah~wide tax revolt. 
"Wn need accountability in govt~rnment and criminal proseeution for those who rip us ofT," said John Budzash, a Howell mailman and Hands Across New Jersey co-founder. "I>o we have efficient spending in government? No." 
State Police Sgt. Peter Hinkle said that the 4 1/2 hour rally peaked at about 4,000 
Washington Post defends reporter arrested while interviewing youths for curfew story 
WASHINGTON (API -The managing editor of The Washington Post says a staff reporter broke no law when hn was arrested for allllgedly contributing to the delinquency of a minor while working on a story for the newspaper and called the police action "unwarranted." 
"Based on the information we have, the arrest of a Washington Post reporter while he is reporting a story and breaking no law himself appears unwarranted to us," said Leonard Downie, Jr., Managing Editor of the Post. 
''I'm particularly concerned that the police pursued this people. Budzash disputed the police estimate, saying at least 10,000 attended the event. A similar rally in July drew about 6,000. 
The $2.8 billion tax hike, the largest in state history, was passed by the Democrat-con­trolled Legislature less than seven months after Florio took office. The governor is a Democrat. 
"Politicians will not budge until you make yourself heard," said Ken Chiampou, a talk show host on WKXW-FM, a Trenton-area radio station which publicized the anti-tax movement. "This is about get­ting pqliticians to respond to the people." 
The $2.8 billion tax package is designed to close a budget gap of more than $1 billion, provide $1.1 billion in new state aid to public schools and ease some property taxes. The 
after the reporter identified himself and his purpose and that the police took his notes," Downie said. 
Michael J. Ybarra, 23, a re­porter with the Post's Metro staff was arrested late Friday while working on a report about a new curfew for minors in Quantico, Va. 
Ybarra's supervisors said the reporter was not available for comment concerning the incident. 
Ybarra was taken into cus­tody and his notes confiscated while conducting an interview of two 12-year-old boys in a restaurant in the Virginia town about 30 miles south of state's income tax will be in­creased for those in the top 17 percent of the tax bracket. 
Florio also raised the state's sales tax from 6 percent to 7 percent. The sales tax also was expanded to include some previously exempt items such as alcohol, cigarettes, telephone bills, soap and disposable paper products. 
Budzash said his group is seeking four goals: the repeal of the tax increases, the right to recall the governor and legislators, the right to use initiative and referendum to make laws, and a more efficient state-government. 
Florio declined an invitation to attend the rally, instead speaking to supporters at Trenton State College. Florio spokesman Jon Shure said the governor "remained convinced that what he did was right." 
the nation's capital. 
The Quantico Town Council recently imposed a 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew for youths under age 18 following recent vandalism in the area. 
Ybarra is the second adult charged in connection with a curfew violation, but no youths have been arrested. 
"I believe that the reporter was trying to do his job and just got mixed up at the wrong place and the wrong time," said Leo Rodriguez, Quantico Police Chief. 
Rodriguez said the reporter's notes were held as evidence but a copy would be made available to the Post. 
page 7 Comment shows Japan's prejudices 
TOKYO (AP) -A Japanese Cabinet minister's offhand suggestion that American blacks ruin white neighborhoods reflects the deep prejudices and provin­cialism that still hinder Japan's much-touted interna­tionalism, analysts say. 
Justice Minister Seiroku Kajiyama's public comments Friday, in which he compared blacks to prostitutes, were the latest to aggravate relations between Japanese politicians and U.S. minorities. Blacks also have heard themselves belittled in recent years as illiterate and financially ir­responsible. 
Each incident has drawn howls of U.S. protest. Yet such comments keep cropping up because Japan, for all its export savvy and love of Western goods, remains in many ways as isolated from Western thinking as it has for most of its long history, observers say. 
"Japan is a society of funda­mental discrimination against other ethnic and racial groups," said Patricia Steinhoff, former head of the University of Hawaii's Center for Japanese Studies. 
"Japanese politicians used to be able to get away with this kind of thing, but now all of a sudden they can't" because of adverse publicity, she said. "I don't really think they know where to draw the line." 
At a news conference fol­lowing a police roundup of foreign prostitutes in Tokyo, Kajiyama commented Friday that such prostitutes "ruin the atmosphere" of neighborhoods when they arrive. 
"It's like in America when neighborhoods become mixed because blacks move in, and whites are forced out," said the newly appointed minister, who previously held two other key Cabinet posts, including head of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. 
Shortly afterward, the Justice Ministry issued a statement from Kajiyama, who said he meant to convey that people living in that district of Tokyo feel insecure. 
It said the 64-year-old minister's comments con­tained "expressions that may cause misunderstanding." But it did not offer an explicit apology. 
Ralph Neas, executive direc­tor of the Leadership Conference on Civil Bights in Washington, ealled Kajiyama's co~m~nts "reprehensible and 
racist. 
Japanese analysts say racism here often reflects the nation's pride in its own supposed racial purity. In 1985, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a report attributing Japan's economic successes to its racial homogeneity. 
"Japanese are continuously being reminded of the unique­ness of their culture ... by their teachers, newspapers and TV programs," Dutch author Karel Van Wolferen wrote in a much-discussed recent book, "The Enigma of Japanese Power." 
Even Japanese who have been partially educated abroad "are actively dis­criminated against and are often the object of teasing and class bullying" when they return, Van Wolferen said. "They are invariably made to feel they are contaminated." 
Black athletes and enter­tainers are popular on Japanese television, along with others who seem to satisfy an everlasting hunger here for things Western. And officially, the government continues its policy of "intern a tionalization" urging companies to hire more foreigners. 
But in Japanese eyes, for­eigners always remain "gaijin"-"outside people." 
Large 4x8 Glossy Prints 
Get one roll of film developed (12, 24 or 36 exp.) for 99¢ with this coupon. One. I coupon per household. Not valid with other offers. Expires October 1 2, 1990. 
: SIEA./R/S 8.AT AMERICA'S 
1 1 anda whole lot fi'IDte. N DO 
1 )burmoneysworth ' PHOTO SHOP 
L-------------------------------­fSEAR$1 ...FILM ~ ~ ~,fi dB ThoseWhoK.nw ­
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL Sears lower level at Hardware 271·6500 

The Observer 

THE AMERICAN HEART ASS([:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM. 
~~ 
American Heart Association 


This space provided as a public service. 
Voters may be lying to pollsters, recent primary surprises indicate 
BOSTON (AP) -Democrat John Silber's unexpected vic­tory in the Massachusetts gu­bernatorial primary is renew­ing questions about whether voters lie to pollsters. 
The same questions followed the careers of Barry Goldwater and George Wallace, whose support was understated in some polls. 
Silber, on leave as president of Boston University, defeated former Attorney General Francis X. Bellotti by a com­fortable 9-point margin, win­ning 53 percent of the vote in Tuesday's Democratic primary. 
Polls published just before the election showed Bellotti ahead and "surging." One poll gave Bellotti a lead of 50 percent to 39 percent. An election-eve survey showed Bellotti leading 49 percent to 35 percent. 
Gerry Chervinsky, whose polls at KRC Communications Research in Cambridge showed Bellotti in the lead close to the primary, believes some poll respondents hid their support for Silber. 
They liked Silber's combative style and confrontational rhetoric, but weren't willing to admit it, he believes. 
"I don't think there's any question at all that voters were not forthcoming about voting for Silber," Chervinsky said. "It was socially unacceptable to say, it was impolite to say, 'I'm voting for Silber.'" 
Other factors also con­tributed to the polling problem, such as the difficulties of predicting turnout in a primary and of determining whether in­dependent voters will take a Democratic or Republican bal­lot, Chervinsky said. 
But Silber, in a television in­terview Sunday, said his and election results elsewhere in the nation reflected a growing "anti-media sentiment." 
On ABC-TV's "This Week With David Brinkley's' program he said he believed one of the polls was "slanted in the sample that it took." 
Silber had warned weeks before the primary that some pollsters would be "looking for work" after Sept. 18 because they were missing his support­ers. He speculated that his backers viewed questions from pollsters as "an invasion of privacy." 
The polls were off only in the Democratic gubernatorial primary. Other Massachusetts races, some of them close and volatile, were predicted accu­rately. 
Exit polls indicated as many as 20 percent of the voters made up their minds in the last days of the campaign and went overwhelmingly for Silber. But Chervinsky said voters who concealed their support for Silber could have skewed polls by as much as 10 points. 
Experts differ on whether voters willfully mislead poll­sters. 
"If I believed that people lied in the telephone interview process I'd have to get out of the polling business and get a broom," said John Becker of the Sudbury-based Becker Institute Inc., which conducted some early polls. "It's all speculation. No one ever produces any evidence that people lie." 
University of Virginia politi­cal scientist Larry Sabato says lying "is more of a pollster's excuse than a reality." 

Notre Dame Law School professor re­elected to American Judicature Society 
Special to The Observer 
James Seckinger, director of the National Institute for Trial Advocacy and a law professor at the Notre Dame Law School, was recently re-elected to the American Judicature Society Board of Directors at the Society's annual meeting in Chicago. 
A graduate of the ND Law School, Seckinger is a member of the International Society of Barristers, the Association of American Law Schools' Evidence and Litigation Section, the American Bar Association's Section on Litigation and Division of Judicial Administration, and a consultant to the New Zealand Law Society. He is a frequent coordinator and lecturer for continuing legal education pro­grams and is the author of numerous articles and publica­tions. 
Also re-elected at the meeting were the Society's officers: AJS President Robert Banks, a law management consultant; Chair of the Board Honorable Diana Murphy, U.S. District Court for Minnesota; Vice Presidents Honorable Robert Utter, Washington Supreme Court; Honorable Judith Chirlin, Superior Court of California Los Angeles County; and Lawrence Okinaga, of Carlsmith, Wichman, Case, Mukai and Ichiki, Honolulu; Secretary Honorable Henry Frye, North Carolina Supreme Court; and Treasurer Edwin Hendricks, of Meyer, Hendricks, Victor, Osborn & Maledon, Phoenix. 
Both Aetna Life and Causalty Norman Krivosha were fea­tured speakers at the meeting. 
Vice  President  Stephen  
Middlebrook  and  former  
Nebraskan  chief  justice  

Founded in 1913, the American Judicature Society is a national independent organi­zation of more than 20,000 concerned citizens working to improve the nation's justice system. Among its goals are to create greater public under­standing of the role of the courts, to select judges for their professional qualifications, and 
to  protect  judicial  
independence  while  
maintaining  the  highest  

standards of judicial ethics while improving court systems. 
AJS holds conferences and seminars, maintains an infor­mation and consultation ser­vice, conducts empirical re­search, operates the Center for Judicial Conduct Organization, and publishes newsletters, monographs, and a journal en­titled Judicature. 

Monday, September 24, 1990 
Provost announces two faculty appointments 
Special to The Observer 
Timothy O'Meara, provost of the University, recently an­nounced the appointment of two new faculty members to endowed academic chairs at Notre Dame. 
Thomas Frecka has been ap­pointed Vincent and Rose Lizzadro Professor of Accountancy and is chairing the accountancy department in the College of Business Administration. Philip Mirowski has been named Carl E. Koch Professor of Economics. 
Previously, Frecka was the Ernst & Whinney Distinguished Professor of Accountancy at the University of Illinois, where he had been a member of the faculty since 1977. 
Most recently, he was associ­ate head of Academic Affairs and director of the Illinois Accountancy Ph.D. program. He received his doctorate from Syracuse University in 1978 and holds a bachelor's and a master's degree from Ohio University. 
Prior to his career in aca­demics, he worked as an audi­tor and senior consultant for the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Company . He also worked as an internal auditor for Kennecott Copper Corp. 
Frecka's teaching interests lie in the fields of financial report­ing and managerial accounting. His publications encompass a variety of empirical research areas, including capital mar­kets theory, normative portfolio selection procedures, capital structure theory, inflation the­ory, market response to ac­counting information, and fi­nancial statement analysis. 
He edited "Accounting for Manufacturing Productivity," which was published in 1988 by the Association for Manufacturing Excellence. He will be the editor of the forth­coming publication, "The State of Accounting Research As We Enter the 1990." 
The Vincent and Rose Uzzadro Chair in Accountancy was established by the couple's son, Dominic Uzzadro. Dominic received a degree in accounting from Notre Dame in 1933, and 
Class 
continued from page 12 
Hey Tony!! 

BIG HAPPY B·DAY 
on your 24th. C'mon girls. This one's gonna be a LAWYER-$$$$. Good luck in law school. 
Love, Your Big Bro 
(My fault it's latel Sorry Tony! -Emily) 
GET TOP$ 
FOR YOUR 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 1-800-733-8499 
ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL 
is currently an insurance executive in Oak Park, Illinois. He also underwrote the Uzzadro Magnetic Resonance Research Center in the University's College of Science. 
Philip Mirowski was a faculty member at Tufts University for nine years. During this time, Mirowski was a visiting faculty member at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and at Yale University. Prior to his stay at Tufts, he was on the faculty of the University of Santa Clara for three years. 
Mirowski is the editor of the book, "The Reconstruction of Economic Theory." He is also the author of four books, the most recent of which is "Who's Afraid of Random Trade: How Stochastic Concepts Came to Economic Theory," published by the Princeton University Press. His research interests included examining the philo­sophical underpinnings of eco­nomics, which he has compared with the philosophical under­pinnings of physics. 
Mirowski graduated from Michigan State University in 1973. He received his master's and doctorate degrees in eco­nomics from the University of Michigan in 1976 and 1979, re­spectively. 
The Carl E. Koch Professorship was endowed by Mrs. Paula Koch in memory of her husband, a successful Chicago businessman who established the Koch Foundation in order to aid the evangelization of the Catholic Church. The professorship is one of several benefactions to Notre Dame by the Koch family, who also established the Koch scholarship at the University. 
Weare 
. .
w1nrung. 
IAMERICAN 'I/CANCER 'SOCIETY~ 

•••••••••*LISA*******••• HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY LOVE, YOUR BODACIOUS ROOMIES PHONEI...IT'S FOR YOU. 
St. Edward's Hall Forum 
Professor David Link, Dean of Notre Dame's Law School will speak on: "How to Get Into and Succeed at a Good Law School." Wednesday, Sept. 26 St. Edward's Hall Forum 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS: 45ft Captained Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. $448.00 each Including Accommodation and Meals. SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE! 1-800-999-7245 10AM-8P 
sdgf 
Valentines 

Business
Monday, September 24, 1990 

Enrollment on the rise for business schools 
INDIANAPOLIS {AP) -A Part of the reason for that slow decline in the numbers of increase is that the school students opting to focus on started a master's in business business may be ending, a new administration program this study indicates. year and admitted 160 stu­Most business schools in In­dents. Also, Edwards said he diana are reporting slight in­has been noticing more people creases in enrollment for the entering the work force out of fall semester, according to pro­high school and then deciding jections. to enter college two to five 
The numbers came as a sur­years later. prise to some observers, who At Indiana University's said the interest in business School of Business, enrollment studies declined in the 1980s as into the graduate program is more students turned to liberal limited to about 600 students a arts. year, said Dan Dalton, director 
"A few years ago, my answer of graduate programs. But the would have been that the num­number of people applying to ber (of business school en­the master's program is up rollees) would be down," said from previous years, he said. Neil Palomba, dean of the Col­About 1,700 people applied lege of Business at Ball State for the 1989-90 school year,
Rooms with a view University. "Now, I'm but that figure rose to about anticipating that they're going 1,900 for 1990-91, he said. The 
A 25 percent equity interest in the World Financial Center (the three buildings at left) is for sale by owners, to stay about the same." undergraduate business pro­
Olympia & York, who are reportedly trying to raise cash for a huge real estate development in England. In the 1980s, interest in busi­gram at Indiana University is ness, particularly at the gradu­limited to 1,200 students. ate level, waned in part because Robin Livesay, dean of the of the scandals that hit Wall University of Indianapolis
Rushdie dedicates fairy tale to son 
Street. School of Business, said its un­
LONDON (AP) -Salman death after the author's first at "the stupidity of the Islamic 
Brit that has begun to turn dergraduate program is up
Rushdie's first book since Iran novel, "The Satanic Verses," deathmongers, burning a book around, said John G. Keane, about 20 students over lastcalled for his death is a fairy was deemed blasphemous to Is­they do not have the intelligence dean of the College of Business year to 410 full-time students.
tale for children, acclaimed by lam. to understand." 
Administration at University of Figures for this school yearcritics Sunday as a charming The new book tells the tale of Burgess called it a "great Notre Dame. Notre Dame's aren't in for Ball State's busi­
and lighthearted work with a a Hindu storyteller whose talent tribute to the resilience of Mr. graduate program in business ness program. But Palomba
serious message for adults as is suddenly destroyed by a Rushdie's beleaguered spirit is operating at capacity and said he expects them to remain
well. fanatical dictator who poisons that he should write so charm­had to defer 13 admissions this about the same as a year ago.
Reviewers marveled that the springs of his inspiration. ingly funny a book." 
semester, he said. For the 1989-90 school year,Rushdle could write with such His brave son, Haroun, even­"I'd speculate that with 3,689 people were undergradu­mischievous humor despite 19 tually defeats the enemy of sto­"It is a book to enjoy and not 
global competition that ate business majors and 169
months in hiding under police ries and restores his father's to explicate but, if we wish, we {interest) reflects intense com­people were in the graduate
guard, during which he has gift. can take it as a piece of Swif­petition within the country; a program, he said.
moved constantly and become tian outrage at human folly desire to have more education,"separated from his wife, the Rushdie dedicates the book to disguised as a children's tale," 
he said. But enrollment has declinedAmerican novelist Marianne his own son with these lines: Burgess wrote. 
Emmet Edwards, dean of the slightly at Indiana State Uni­
Wiggins. "As I wander far from University of Southern Indi­versity's School of Business. 
view Rushdie, a British citizen ana's School of Business, said There were 1,951 undergrad­Read, and bring me home to born into a Moslem family in
Most critics, however, also he expects enrollment in the uate business majors this fall, 
saw signs of pain and despera­you." India, was sentenced to death 
business school to be about down from 2,036 in the fall tion In the prose of "Haroun British writer Anthony February 14, 1989. Even after 2,000 this year. That's up by al­semester of 1989. Graduate en­and The Sea of Stories." Burgess, reviewing the book in Khomeini's death last year, the most 300 students over last rollment decreased slightly, by 
The late Ayatolah Ruhollah the Observer newspaper, said sentence was not lifted by Ira­year. about 10 students. Khomflini called for Rushdie's the dedication "renews rage" nian leaders. 
Keating_to receive no 'bailout' Teachers complain of 'babysitting' or leniency from the courts NEW ORLEANS (AP)-The One picket at Lafayette Ele-the next day." 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -picket signs read "No raise, no mentary School last week District officials refused to Fallen savings and loan work." But for many of the wrapped her sign in toilet pa-discuss student discipline poll-mogul Charles Keating was 3,000 teachers on strike in New per. "Dr. Williams, yes it's true. cies. However, the district said able to lead a lavish lifestyle, Orleans, it's a matter of toilet We provide toilet paper. Here's the cars in question are two but now he leads a simpler paper, discipline and dignity. some for you," proclaimed the years old, are le~s~d and life as a prisoner at the Los "When teachers strike, you sign addressed to Superinten-needed by seven admtmstrators Angeles County Jail. know it's more than just the dent Everett Williams. whose jobs require regular vis-
pay. If all it was was money, Others omplained of spending its to schools around the city. they wouldn't be teaching in the as much as $500 a year of theirKeating, 66, surrendered 
last week to face a 42-count 
first place," said Mike Stone, own money to buy paper, Before last week's strike, an English teacher at McMain workbooks and other instruc-teachers had dropped earlier
indictment alleging fraudu­
lent sales of worthless junk Magnet Secondary School. tiona! supplies. demands for 10 percent pay United Teachers of New Or-District officials deny such raises, saying they would settle
bonds to thousands of 
elderly investors through his leans, which represents the charges. instead for having the district collapsed Lincoln Savings New Orleans Parish's 4,420 provide $1 million to cover half teachers and 1,100 teachers' "I can assure you there's of a $300-per-person increase
and Loan Association of 
Charles Keating aides and secretaries, went on enough hand towels and toilet in health insurance costs. Man­
Irvine. 
strike Sept. 1 7. The district tissue in New Orleans public agement offered $600,000,Superior Court Judge Gary adjacent to the jail hospital. 
Klausner ordered Keating He's not permitted to eat, kept schools open with substi­schools. Teachers are not buy­saying that was all the district held in lieu of $5 million bail tutes and a little more than ing them out of their private could afford.
exercise or otherwise mingle 
1,600 regular teachers who funds in any numbers that Iand refused Friday to reduce with any of the other prison­crossed picket lines last week. know of," said the district's After the walkout, teachersit to $500,000 despite pleas ers. 
On Friday, 62,277 of the dis­chief negotiator, Frank Fude-reinstated their demand for 10from Keating's attorneys "We do it because of his 
trict's estimated 85,000 stu­sco. percent raises as well as the $1that he posed no risk of flee­newsworthiness. Because of dents attended classes. "The reason is money," million insurance package. 
ing. who he is," said sheriffs Union officials say a dispute school board spokesman Henry Deputy Bill Linnemeyer. "We 
Klausner said Keating has over who would bear the bur­Joubert said flatly. Salaries range from $19,455
do the same with all per­
"significant reasons not to den of $400,000 in health in­for a starting teacher to
sonalities for their well being 
stay around." surance costs -the teachers Teachers also complained $35,111 for someone with a
and safety."
The judge did reduce bail or the district -triggered last that the administration isn't doctorate and 25 years experi­for three Keating associates For Keating and the other week's walkout that has dis­backing them on discipline of ence. named in the indictment. inmates, the day begins at rupted education in the state's students and wastes money on But the teachers insist the 
5:30 a.m. when lights in the largest school district. adminstrators who drive new real issue is respect. Keating spent the weekend jail are turned on. It ends at But New Orleans Parish cars equipped with telephones. "The real problem is the 
in the Men's Central Jail 10 p.m. when the lights are teachers on the picket lines say "Students are hitting teach­school board and top adminis­downtown, one of the na­turned off. the issues are not only in­ers," said Ann Legaux who tration," said Ellen Picou, a tion's largest with nearly Keating is given one hour a creased insurance costs, but teaches gifted children at Fan­school librarian. "We're on the 7,000 inmates. day to exercise, watch the poor working conditions, dis­nie Williams Middle School. picket line here on Claiborne 
Keating occupied a private television or use the tele­cipline and the feeling that "Do you think they're going to Avenue because the school cell In a high-security wing phone. many parents regard them as be expelled, as it says in the board . . . has no Idea how overpaid baby sitters. handbook? No. They're back teachers feel." 
,..........·...... ~.:.;.;..:. ...... -....., 
Viewpoint 
Monday, September 24, 1990
eage 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor..............•...•.•.. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager •••.••...Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............••• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ......•..... Amy Eckert Sports Editor .......•..•.••....... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ••••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................•.• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .•••••••Corinne Pavlis Controller....•...••••.....•.•... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Ticket distribution not fair to students 
Tickets to last weekend's Michigan State football game were advertised and distributed in an unfair, inconsistent and arbitrary manner. 
In a September 18 Observer ad, the Student Union Board instructed interested MSU spectators to "bring Student ID" with them when receiving their lottery numbers. The ad, however, did not specify that students could only get lottery numbers with Notre Dame student IDs. Since The Observer serves both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities, SUB should not have assumed the only "students" who read the student newspaper are those who attend Notre Dame. As a result of SUB's ambiguous ad, several Saint Mary's students waited for lottery numbers--along with their Notre Dame peers--only to be turned away at the head of the line. 
In addition to the advertisement, itself, being misleading, the policy behind the ad was blatantly inconsistent. As both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are granted equal access to student tickets for all home football games, the ticket office's failure to abide by a similar standard for away games is contradictory. 
Furthermore, when the ticket office learned that an additional 150 MSU tickets were available, a representative from the office asked The Observer to publish a notice relaying the surplus in the following day's paper. Because the tickets went on sale at 9 a.m. the following morning, however, and most students read The Observer at lunch, individuals who were aware of the sale before the newspaper was distributed on Thursday were given an unfair advantage to get tickets. By the time most students learned of the surplus, the ticket office was already sold out. 
To avoid this dilemma, the ticket office logically should have postponed the ticket sale to mid-afternoon, giving all students an equal opportunity to learn about the surplus and take advantage of the sale. 
All students deserve an equal shot at acquiring tickets to away football games--particularly when demand exceeds supply and fair distribution is well within the University's reach. Publishing ambiguous advertisements and releasing privileged information about the sale of extra tickets to only a select group is unfair and undermines the credibility of both the Student Union Board and the ticket office. 
A commitment to integrity is imperative in Persian Gulf 

By Michael Masone 
In a joint session of Congress on the Persian Gulf crisis last Tuesday night, President Bush declared that, "America and the world will not be blackmailed" by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. "Vital issues of principle are at stake," Bush said, "and America will not be intimidated." Such a firm stance is precisely what Hussein's recent aggression calls for; in fact, Bush has promised that the United States will not recall its forces from the Gulf until Iraq has pulled its own out of Kuwait. But the stark reality is that this theory is being put into practice at the risk of thousands of young lives, and it compels one to ask: At what price is the U.S. willing to get what it wants? 
To a generation too young to remember the horrors of Vietnam, the thought of full­fledged war involving conventional weapons appears unfathomable. Today's college students have been raised on a sort of false arrogance about the dominance of the United States and its military forces. But rest assured, a war with Iraq, which appears to be more of a reality everyday, would not be won easily. To begin with, our military buildup-the largest in any one place since 
Vietnam-still  leaves  us  
outnumbered  in  both  
manpower  and  equipment,  

such as the armored vehicles which are imperative for desert warfare. The U.S. has always relied on superior technology as its military advantage; however, it is a fact that warfare in desert conditions creates difficulties with the high-tech our tanks. As a result, U.S. troops would be forced to go outside their tanks in the heat of battle in order to clear out sand which would cause malfunctions. Our soldiers, most of whom have never seen actual combat, are fighting on our opponent's own terrain against rivals who would benefit from eight years of intense battle experience from Iraq's war with Iran. In essence, our troops, who do not subscribe to the same union of religion and country that their adversaries do, are fighting against individuals who are not afraid to die. 

Naturally, most hope that a diplomatic solution will be found. Unfortunately, however, rational thinking is not one of Hussein's trademarks, and the man who has been described as no more than a "ninth-century barbarian" will not withdraw his forces from Kuwait unless he is forced out. Our troop face an enemy whose leader has not hesitated to use chemical weapons, an act forbidden in the world's military community, on his own people. As a result, our fighting men would be forced to don burdensome protective gear which hinders movement in battle and causes excessive perspiration in the sun. Bush has called the Iraqis "isolated" and has said that this crisis is a "struggle between Iraq and the world." But while the U.S. does enjoy the verbal support of nearly the entire world, no nation capable of offering substantial manpower assistance has done so, and other U.S. officials have been forced to plead for financial assistance from economic su­perpowers Germany and Japan. 
What it comes down to is a crazed Arab dictator who will not be moved back and the most influential leader in the world who stands firm in opposition. My aim is not to predict a victor as one would in a prizefight. But before we become content to accept the policies of one man, let us at least understand what will be the consequences of our actions. Let's not be fooled into becoming glassy-eyed, flag­waving American supporters, so sure of predominance in world affairs. A commitment to integrity is necessary in this situation; unfortunately, however, firm stances are much more easily taken in plush offices that on a desert plain by men and women no older than we here at Notre Dame. 
Michael Masone is in the Freshman Year ofStudies. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is not a dress rehearsal.' 
Fr. Tim Scully 
--------------~----c---~~-----­
Accent 
Monday, September 24, 1990 page 11 
KARA KEELING look at oneself honestly in order to discover that accent writer inner power that every person possesses. The key, he said, is being able to tap into this power. "What good is a formal education if you don't Madhubuti stated that when a person is in a con­
Black
know who you are?" demanded Michele Cage, co­stant state of material and mental slavery, there president of Notre Dame's Black Cultural Arts ceases to be a self. Madhubuti, in following in the Couneil, in the speech she presented on Friday to tradition of The Black Man's Think Tank, touched the participants in the University of Notre Dame's on some very deep and crucial subjects. first annual Black Man's Think Tank. Wade Nobles, an experimental social psy­
Man's
The Think Tank, organized by Ken Durgans, chologist, also came to the Think Tank with a Virge Gilliam and several others from both the pageful of credentials. He is the founder and 
South Bend and Notre Dame communities, was Executive Director of the Institute for the Advanced designed to begin to provide African American Study of Black Family, Life and Culture, Inc., and Students with a sense of "self." The theme of The has recently been given the responsibility of 
Think Tank is "NOMMO-The Word Made Flesh." developing a center in California to identify, 
Think Tank 
The bulk of the Think Tank consisted of the explain and apply the culturally consistent presentation of lectures by four very impressive educational teaching and practice relative to and learned men. African-American educational excellence. 
Ellis Liddell provided the Black Man's Think Tank Nobles brought this knowledge and experience to 
with an economic perspective which he termed Personal self-knowledge and the Think Tank this past weekend in the form of a "gettanomies." Liddell, who has worked success­lecture in which he touched upon a variety of fully over the past ten years in life insurance and community unity emphasized different ideas. • finance, recently founded Liddell Enterprises, Inc. It was with Nobles that t.he Word "Nommo" 
to manage public speakers such as Wade Nobles, began to acquire a definition. He placed great em­Susan Handolph, and Lynn Jeffries. phasis on not only "Nommo," but on any uttered 
Liddell's whole idea of "gettanomics" is to word by asserting that any spoken word has power generate additional money for the black and that by proclaiming something verbally, it is community. He suggested the idea of redirecting brought into existence. funds and eneouraged the audience to rethink Nobles also played with the word by varying it to ways of generating funds. "no more" as in the black man will take no more 
Liddell pointed out that the average business abuse and also to "know more" as in the owned and operated by African-Americans makes acquisition of knowledge. Nobles touched many only $45,000 annually. The cost of an effective-ad­other ideas and topics that stimulated the audience 
vertising eampaign itself greatly exceeds this fig­and challenged them to think, reflect and act. ure. PP The last speaker was Na'im Akbar. Akbar, like 
In order to overcome this economic situation, the rest of the men that lectured this weekend, Liddell asserts that the African-American student came to the Think Tank with an impressive list of must have a vision as opposed to a dream. A credentials. He has received many awards and 
"vision transcends the dream" in that the vision recognitions, including the Dr. Martin Luther King, 
has a plan, he said. From here, Liddell went on to Jr. Distinguished Scholar Award and the honor of present the audienee with a few possible plans to having the mayor of Atlantic City, N.J., proclaim a help to turn that economic vision into reality. "Na'im Akbar Day." 
llaki Madhubuti, a widely acclaimed poet, Akbar also stressed the Word "Nommo" and said 
publisher and edueator, presented the participants that it can be seen as the unity of all things. He of the Think Tank with a powerful presentation of asserted that, because of this unity, all black peo­his philosophy on several issues facing the African ple have a responsibility to each other. 
Ameriean today. Akbar also presented the idea that there are two 
Madhubuti's credentials could take up a page by types of assaults against African-Americans, ex­llwmsnlves, but include co-founder of the oteric and esoteric. Akbar defined an exoteric as­Organization of Black American Culture Writer's sault as an obvious attack from the outside. An 
Workshop (OBAC) and co-organizer of the Midwest esoteric assault, he said, is the first assault which contingency for the Second World Black and leads to the esoteric attack from within the African Fllstival of Art and Culture (FESTAC) that individual. It is also a delayed reaction in and 
took place in Nigeria in 1977. against the individual, Akbar said. 
Madhubuti asserted that black people "cannot eontinue to use racism as an excuse for not going It is this reaction, according to Akbar, that to get ours" and went on to outline the resolutions breaks up the community. Among the other that he feels African-Americans must adopt to do concepts that Akbar brought up is the assertion just that. These resolutions included the necessity that history should never be seen as a place to 
for black people to know and understand them­return to, but as a "launching pad from which to selves, to listen to wise people, to define and go." understand their enemies. and to develop their own world view. Booths selling African and African-American The rest of the speech was designed to give books, clothing, jewelry and other miscellaneous guidelines to achieve those resolutions. Madhubuti items of interest were set up throughout the week­also pointnd out that destructive behavior comes end. Saturday's events concluded with meetings from one's environment and stressed the ability to For Black Women Only and For Black Men Only. 
Midnight Oil performs high-octane rock 'n roll 
JOE GODIN ing. The energy in the group Sky Mine." After playing "Beds to the right of him while a stage song, finishing with a deafening accent writer was obviously high-octane. are Burning," the crowd roared hand would toss him a new guitar solo. The lead singer de­The lead singer, a bald, tall, and gave a standing ovation. piece of wood. scribed the group before the fi­
Midnight Oil upheld its repu­skinny Australian named Peter The group then went off stage At the end of the song, the nal song by saying, "We are a tation as one of the most so­Garrett, was at the center of briefly before returning to play lights dimmed and the music liberal group who believes that cially consdous bands around attention. He would dance "One Country," a new song. The slowed to the end. Then the people should know what they by playing an intense concert at madly around the stage, arms lead guitarist started the song lights flashed on and the want and go out and get it." the Michigan Theatre in Ann and legs going every which on a guitar solo,with Garrett drummer raised all his sticks Outside the concert hall there Arbor last week. The concert way, at a frenetic pace. The and the rest of the group high in the air and thrust them were two environmental was played in front of 1700 drummer complimented him by entering one by one. down on the stage and Midnight groups, Greenpeace and The people at the small theater. raising his left arm high in the Garrett made a plea to the Oil exited the stage to a stand­Rainforest Action Network 
It was very evident that big air and pounding the drum on crowd to avoid the use of drugs, ing, clapping, stomping crowd. (RAN), campaigning for sup­things were going to happen the beat and drumming at a using football players as an porters. Greenpeace was selling when I approached the door of rapid pace with his right arm. example. "There aren't many The crowd was visually pins and shirts to help fund the theater with two other After the initial set of songs, gridiron players here tonight," shaken by the intensity of the their cause. They also provided Notre Dame students. The Garrett commented on their Garrett said to the crowd concert. When sophomore Matt information for anyone inter­crowd outside was bubbling current tour. "After being on consisting of mostly Michigan Taylor was asked what he ested in supporting the group. with excitement and anticipa­and off tour for the past 18 students. "That is too bad thought of the concert he re­The RAN was trying to get peo­tion while waiting for Midnight months, it is hard to keep up a because we know how big sponded, "What? My ears are ple to sign a petition against the Oil to hit the stage. high level of intensity," Garrett gridiron is here. But we do un­ringing, I can't hear a damn destruction of rain forests. 
Immediately we were ae­said. He also invited the crowd derstand that the gridiron thing. Good concert. though." Midnight Oil exuded class costed by a saleswoman who to help the Greenpeace envi­players have to go home and Chris Lenhart had a more dra­throughout the concert and ex­wanted to sell us shirts for six ronmental group and, "help take their drugs and go to matic comment: "After seeing pressed a great concern for the dollars. So we bought three something alive instead of sleep." Midnight Oil in concert they welfare of people all over the 
shirts and went inside, only to something dead, as your tax have replaced New Kids On The world. They have touched base find out that the shirts we dollars go to. One dollar to The group concluded the con­Block and Milli Vanilli as my with many problems in the 
bought were from their last Greenpeace is like hundreds of cert with "Compassion," a song favorite groups." world, such as drugs, rain for­tour. We also noticed that the thousands of dollars to your dedicated to a drug-free Amer­The opening group, The Ori­est burning, homeless people, shirts reeked of Mad Dog. Congressman," Garrett said. ica. The song concluded with a gin, was well received. They Third World hunger, and 
Hight off the top, Oil came out As the concert progressed, two-minute long drum solo that were a liberal group who others. Throughout this they 
fired up with "King Of The Midnight Oil would jump from rocked the house. The played mostly mellow music. At have maintained popularity and Mountain," a song off their old songs such as "Dead Heart" drummer would toss broken the end of their concert they have produced good music. newest release, Blue Sky Min-to their current hits like "Blue sticks into a barrel/instrument played a hard rocking intense Keep an eye on them. 

-
Monday, September 24, 1990
eage 12 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Christmas Help WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S 
Wanted: 2 tickets for Miami Game. HELP!! I NEED 4 PURDUE NOTICES National firm has many openings DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE Face value plus picture of GA'SI NEED 2 PURDUE GAs FOR MY available. $8.10 AT 2344 
President Grant. 272-1981 CALL KATIE AT X1297 PARENTS, WHO WILL PAY$. TYPING AVAILABLE starting. Gain great business 273-0318 
287-4082 experience . Weekends and NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S 
HAVE 2 A. F. G.A.'s,need 1 Miami I NEED STANFORD GA'S evenings available.call 271-8699 WILL EVEN PAY $. CALL 
stud. tic.Will make deai.Need CALL ERIK AT X2088. NEED PURDUE TICKETS SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 
response by 9pm Monday. Call CALL JOHN 258-0809 237-1949 WANTED: 2 Perdue GA's 
x2336 or x3709 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Ellen x3842P HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will 
NEED STANFORD and MIAMI WANTED PAIR OR SINGLE JUST SAY NO! pay $$$$$$$$1 Call Matt X 1 055 
NEEDED-2 PURDUE GAs TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S MIAMI GA X1581 TOM Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's I need 2 GA's and 1 stud for 
Call Tom atxt Call Mary at 3816. Books, corner of ND ave. & Stanford game! NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ "'I NEED TICKETS!'" Howard. 233-2342 Betsy 283-3829 HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE WANTED: ONE PENN STATE I would be forever in your CALL BETH 233-9226 
STUD. TICKET. BEST OFFER. Need Student Tix for Stanford debt for 3 Air Force student tickets!! Call John at x1802
\ LOST/FOUND 1 ( FOR RENT ) CALL AMANDA X4953 big$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY need PURDUE 
Mason X2787 LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN \...------=====~ GAslll Paul x1626 HAVE 1 MIAMI 
SELL US YOUR STANFORD SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY GA.DESPERATELY SEEKING (2) 
TICKETSII (PLEASE) Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force 
We're desperately searching for 2 big bucks paid 
HALL AND 02. GREAT 219-291-7153. I Need 2 Miami Tickets STANFORD GAs. WILLING TO 
PERSONAL VALUE, PLEASE ----------Students or GAs DEAL. MIKE X3526 
student tickets. If you have any, call Mason at 2787 RETURN IF FOUND. 2 Bedroom Apt w/ Will Pay Top Dollar 
call Julie x3851 or Michelle x3879. 271-9312 Full Bath + Kitchen Call Eric x2095 NEED PURDUE GA'S 
Need 2 PENN ST. GA's GREAT Location+ Price for dad & little bro AND PENN ST. STUDS
I have 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET LOSTIII LOST!! I LOSTIII Call x3077 NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS Jackie x4112 CALL KEVIN @2235 
for sale -will sing & dance-RAY-BAN ARISTA MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR 
BEST OFFER, Andy@11 08 
OUTDOORSMAN GOLD Studio Appt. Turtle Creek GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA 
FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE 1 0 min walking from campus. SAM AT (201 )334-3804. WANTED-TIX CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 
.. Have 2 Purdue GA 
Need 2 Stan GA MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL Available Nov. 1st 272-1981 
TRADE? Rob 2463 MIA-N.D. GAME TO ME-GIFT FROM TEXAS ALUMNI NEEDS 2-3 G.A. CALL 800-323-7687 HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA 
SOMEONEIIIII WIL OFFER roommate wanted to share two TICKETS TOGETHER IF CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 
Desperately Seeking 5 AIR REWARD! CALL DIANA 284-bedroom house. two minutes POSSIBLE FOR MIAMI AND 
FORCE Ga's ... will buy as many as $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ 5484. from campus. 2730087 PENN STATE. CALL BROTHER 
you have to sell. Please call mel FOR STANFORD, CALL 287-0461 AFTER 6 P.M. 
Angela @2496 COLLECT {416) 851-0817, PLEASE! I really, really need FOUND: MALE WATCH AT MALE ROOMATE NEEDED AFTER 8:00P.M., RENO. either 3 GAs or 1 GA & 2 STU for MICHIGAN TAILGAITER 9/16 FOR 2 BDRM APT Need: PSU GA's Need one Purdue GA AIR FORCE! call X1883 CALL JOSE 283-1985 AT TURTLE CREEK Have: Purdue, AF, Pitt GA's 
Please Call Bill x4115 NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL 277-8976 Trade? Call Dan X3466 
DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546 LOST: GOLD BRACELET 
Need: AFTER6 PM. $$$$$ WED. 9-19 MIAMI TIX WANTED 
TICKETS FOR ALL HOME NEED 6 PURDUE GA'S Please Return if lou nd II $ STUDENT OR GA $ 
FOR SALE 

GAMES! I NEED TENNESSEE TICKETS CALL KATIE x3771 x3791 X2728 (201) 334-3804 
CALL JOE X1688 I HAVE $$$AND STANFORD $$$$$ COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
Monday-Thursday STUD TICKET. CALL ROBERT LOST: BLUE KODAK 11 0 19" COLOR TV, TWO Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or 3:30-6:30 4057 Don't let boilermaker fans (if there CAMERA IN BLACK&BROWN SEMESTERS $110, ONE GA Please call Matt X3024 are any) have your Purdue CASE WITH EXTRA FILM,ETC. -SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 
need Air Force stud. tic. I NEED 2 STUDENT AND 1 GA STUDS! IN LAFORTUNE SAT. 9/15. I SEMESTERS $110, ONE For Sale: 
Brian x1066 FOR AIR FORCE Sell them to mel X 4012 HAVE SOME REALLY SPECIAL SEMESTER $80. Tickets for all home games 
PICTURES ON THE FILM THAT'S COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-call Joe X1688 For Sale: 1 Sr Stud tic for all home 
I need "4" GA'S for the PURDUE CALL MIKE X3039 IN THE CAMERA. PLEASE CALL 5959. Monday -Thursday GAME. I will pay big $$$$. Call games, Incl. Miami! Call X3461 If AMY 284-4322 IF FOUND. 3:30-6:30 PM 
Jeannie 284-4073. WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S no answer, leave message. THANKS! 1980 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX 
FOR SIX BETTER MIAMI GA'S VERY GOOD CONDITION WANTED: 2 GAs to the 
We have Student Tickets PLUS$$$ I NEED PURDUE GA'S! FOUND ON WHITE FIELD: AUTOMATIC, AM/FM STEREO ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S CALL ERIN X3425 
STANFORD game. Call E.J. at 
to all Home games I I I KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS. CASSETTE, POWER 272-4715. 
### FOR$$$ CALL LORI AT 284-5017 TO BRAKES/STEERING. $895. 289-Call CALL GREG 288-9075 PURDUE student tix needed Ill Cristina or JJ @ x4842 
IDENTIFYII! 1440. Need 2 Purdue GA x4053. Miami GAs and Studs 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR If anyone lost a key on one of the TREK 412 Bicycle very good Mike 273-1537 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY BOSS NEEDS MIAMI GA's 
I need 2 Purdue GAs buses for the Junior Cruise, it can cond. 277-7262 
x1640 Pete $$$$$$.CALL JOHN X1177. Call Diane -273-9469 be identified and picked up in the Have 1 stud tix for home games. 
offfice from 3-5 on Mon-Thurs. One way ticket to SEATTLE for leave message. best offer. 2735 A Certain $$$MILLIONAIRE$$$ NEED TENNESSEE -ND
NEED 4 GA's FOR PURDUE. OCT. BREAK, leave SB Fri 
CALL FRANK x1867. Needs 2 AF GA's and 4-8 STAN or TICKETS WILL SWAP PENN LOST: Colliagte Football on White afternoon $100 or Best x2751 AIR FORCE TIXII 
PURDUE GA's CALL Pat x1900 STATE FOR THEM. CALL 216­Field last weekend. The name on NEEDED 7 GA/STUD 877-6042.
NEED FOR GA's FOR AIR the side is "TATE" Please call TREK MOUNTAIN BIKE MONEY IS NO PROBLEM 
FORCE. CALL FRANK x1867. I need one Penn State GA Chad at xt852. New hard packs, tires, CALL JULIE X4975 
Please call ANNE at x1704 FATHER GRADUATED ND 48 $250, (like new, retail $400) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YEARS AGO AND HAS NEVER lost my keysll277-8379 I need 1 Miami stud. 
GIVE ME A BREAK! BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR BEEN BACK. NEED 4 GA'S FOR Call Jason, (Hurry, I'M BROKE) x1640 Pete 
I NEED 6 STANFORD AND FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD PURDUE GAME. CALL LOST: 14k gold rope chain 233-4065 
8 PENN ST. GA's GAME. COLLECT bracelet on Stepan Football WILL TRADE MIAMI GA FOR 1 
CALL TIM #2704 CALL LAUREN 273-1380 (404) 640-0464 BOB LYNCH. field. GREAT Sentimental MIAMI STUD AND 1 AF STUD Value. If found, please call IS IT TRUE ... JEEPS FOR $44 271-8749 
HELP NEED PURDUE TIXI Cara at x3847. THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T? 
'I need 1 (one) PURDUE GA.' CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN PERSONALS CALL FOR FACTS! NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD 
#2185 DAN LOST: class ring! 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840 GAs AND 1 STUD 
NEED PURDUE ST. TIX #2287 SMC FRESHMEN class of '91 WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI 
I NEED 3 PENN ST GAs! WILL VOTE TODAY for PresN-P and blue stone TOSHIBA 52" TV great cond. STUD 271-8749 Freshman Board in the dining hall 
TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GAs & MIAMI, MIAMI, MIAMI 277-9366 cost $11 OO,Iet go for $600 
WILL PAY $$$1 MAURA 2928 NEED 1 STUD TIX at all meals. abo Sean @283-2025. HELP! MY PARENTS ARE 
X2481 PAUL COMING ALL THE WAY FROM H E L PIll To the unbearably beautiful WANTED \ FOR SALE: ROUND TRIP TO MONTANA AND NEED 
N.D ALUM HAS 2 PURDUE GA redhead walking up the Admin. CALIF. OCT. 2-OCT. 11 $223 OR 2 STANFORD GA'S 
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY TIX. WILL TRADE FOR 2 steps last Wed. at 10 am-I saw EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK BEST OFFER? 239-6611 EXT. CALL RENZV AT X1945 
WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS STANFORD OR PENN STAT TIX. your brilliance, and could see READING BOOKS AT HOME. 137. 
PAYING TOP $$$$$ CALL JOHN 201-764-6313. nothing else. Really. CALL 615-473-7 440 EXT. B-340. Need Miami GA's or Married 
CALL JEFF@277-3998 -an Admirer Pairs
I 
TICKETS 

$EX $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX BABYSITTER NEEDED!! Good$$$$ 
I need two Stanford GA's BAD II HEY! I NEED 2 MIAMI TIXSI ATTN: 'Vich #1 During home FB games Need $$$?Sell Mark 232-4589 
Parents will take back tuition JASON X2099 I hear that there are co-ed Call Steve at your ga's to all 
if I don't come throughllllllll tents on ROTC overnights, 
X1037.P'------­home games. HELP I NEED STUD. OR GA FOR Call Mike X3506 Needed: 2 Air F. Stud.; 4 Air F. especially for slimy bananas !I Wanted a superior english student Call tom xt597. STANFORD GAME. CALL 
GA; 7 Penn St. Stud. Love ya anyway, to help me with my papers and LAURIE 2822. 
I NEED TIXIII 2 GA'S FOR Will trade Purdue Stud. or pay. 'Vich#2 reports. 277-5934 $$ I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. Colleen 272-5939 GAMES.272-6306 Need Purdue Tickets 
TONY X1590 12 BEERS AND A PEN!!! WE NEED STANFORD call Joe or Glenn x3320 
2 Airforce GAs needed; WeiiGeelll TICKETSII II You can save a marriage, sell me 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 1 Miami stud for sale If you can help us out, call your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. NEED 1 AIR FORCE 
PURDUE GA'S FOR POOR x284-4109 12WORDSI Michelle x3879 or Julie x3851. STD. TICKET 
RELATIVES. I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ CALL PAUL 1121 
CALL KEVIN X1589 Wanted 4 GA Tix NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & WANTED: Subway needs delivery I need 2 GA's for EVERY home 
NDvs. MIAMI STANFORD CALL 273-1364 driver/counterperson for Notre game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! I need dos PURDUE tix, stud or 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME 1-800-243-4153 Dame and St. Mary's. Uniforms, PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ GA Marty@289-1015 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Ext. 2387 -Mickey WANNA GO TO THE TONIGHT meals, and hourly bonus. 
CALL 273-1364 SHOW AND SEE JOHNNY APplicants must have dependable Need 1 student Penn State ticket Desperately seeking Air 
I need Penn St stud tix CARSON, ED, & DOC? CALL transportation. Call277-7744 for for a future Domer. Please call Force Tix-GA's and Student 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? Melinda x4852 239-7308. interview appointment. Pat at 273-9367. Call x4808 
ME TOO 

4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami I NEED 4 PENN STATE GA'S IT'S DISNEYLAND'S 35th WANTED: Subway needs night HELP I This means YOU. I need 2 GA tix needed for Air Force. 
fans that need humbling. REALLY BAD. I'LL DO ALMOST ANNIVERSARY! VISIT MICKEY, closers for S.R. 23 store. two GA's for Miami game. Will pay 277-8036 after 7 p.m. 
272-8954 Amy ANYTHING TO GET THEM, MINNIE & THE GANG. CALL 239­Uniforms, meals, and hourly $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or 
EVEN PAY CASH. LOTS OF IT. 7308. 
bonus. Call 277-7744 for hotel reservations for any game. I need two Purdue G.A.'s. 
NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, SO CALL FLO AT x1696. interview appointment. Amy 1289. Call Steve 273-9471 
STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752-HOW COULD YOU MISS THE 5314. Iii' bra' needs stud. tx-all home BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF Need GAs for AIR FORCE and BIG DOLLARS! SALE I Purdue & STNFD stu tix games. 277-8379 YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs TENNESSEE Jackie x4112 PP NEED STUDENT TIX 271-9714 
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. USC -CALL 239-7308 ALL HOME GAMES 
TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. I REALLY NEED 3 PENN STATE WANTED: One national energy CALL 1597 SALE! STNFD & AF stu 217 9714 
GA'SI IF YOU CAN HELP ME, BACKGAMMON PARTNER policy. Must be flexible, 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL BRIAN X2153 NEEDED 233-3059 JERRY economical, and be great for tax I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force I need 1 Penn St. stud. tix 
CALL ALEX X1068 write-oils. Efficiency is not a tix. Call Pat x 233-7328. Call John F. x1622 
Will trade 2 AirForce GA's for LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE 
necessity. For more information, 
New York Attorney needs Stanford 2 Stanford GA's. Dan x1666 FOR PURDUE VS ND GAME AT please contact our Washington Need 2 Air Force GA's call Need stud. tix to 
GAs. Will pay big $$$ JAMISON INN. CALL 277-9682 office at 1-800-GET-CLUE. Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 Purdue, Dan x1795 
Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's FOR RESERVATIONS. 
Nancy at 277-2942. Karen x4806 Keyboard player for N.D. Hockey HELPIIII DESPERATELY NEED 2 3 STUD MIAMI TIX games. Contact Hockey Office: MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ BEST OFFER 
I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE II NEJ;D 2-3 STANFORD GA'S. See CLASS I page 8 239-5050 CALL NICOLE 234-8882 271-0836 
CALL KATHLEEN AT 4081 $$$JIM 271-1703. 
4 • r 1 ' ,. t • f i /' 11 ; 1 1~ 
-
Monday, September 24, 1990 page 13 BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Dlvtllion 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Toronto 83 70 .542 7-3 Won1 Boston 82 71 .536 1 2-8 Lost2 Detroit 74 79 .484 9 5-5 Won 1 Cleveland 73 81 .474 101/2 z-8-2 Lost 1 Baltimore 70 81 .464 12 z-6-4 Won 5 Milwaukee 69 83 .454 131/2 1-9 Lost 6 
New York 62 91 .405 21 z-3-7 Won2 West Dlvtllion w L Pet GB L10 Streak Oakland 97 55 .638 6-4 Lost 1 
Chicago 89 64 .582 81/2 z-8-2 Won3 Texas 80 72 .526 17 z-6-4 Lost 2 California 75 77 .493 22 z-4-6 Lost 2 Seattle 74 80 .481 24 4-6 Lost3 Kansas City 71 81 .467 26 z-5-5 Won2 Minnesota 70 84 .455 28 z-5-5 Won2 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Dlvtllion 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Pittsburgh 88 65 .575 4-6 Won1 New York 85 67 .559 21/2 z-4-6 Won2 
Montreal 81 71 .533 61/2 6-4 Lost 3 Chicago 72 80 .474 151/2 z-5-5 Lost 2 Philadelphia 72 80 .474 151/2 7-3 Won3 St. Louis 68 85 .444 20 z-4-6 Lost 1 Wa.totvtllion 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Cincinnati 87 66 .569 6-4 Won4 Los Angeles 82 71 .536 5 z-7-3 Lost 1 
San Francisco 78 75 .510 9 3-7 Won1 San Diego 71 82 .464 16 z-5-5 Lost5 Houston 70 83 .458 17 z-6-4 Lost 2 Atlanta 62 91 .405 25 z-4-6 Won2 
z-denotes first game was a win AMERICAN LEAGUE 

s.turday'a Gan.~ 
Cleveland 5, Toronto 2 NFL BOXES Kansas City 4, California 3 Oakland 5, Detroit 1 Eagles Z7, Rams 21 Phi LA 
Everett17-35-1-260. 
New York 5, Boston 2 Philadelphia 3 14 3 7-27 First downs 25 15 RECEIVING-Philadelphia,Baltimore 3, Milwaukee 2 LA Rams 7 7 0 7-21 Rushes-yards 37-171 15-35 Jackson 4-77, Toney 4-49, Quick 3-37, Minnesota 2, Texas 0 First Quarter Passing 234 246 Byars 3-20, Barnett 2-39, Williams 1-14,Chicago 14, Seattle 5 Phi--FG Ruzek 43, 8:42. Return Yards 21 0 Shuler 1-12. Los Angeles. Ellard 7-145, Sund8y'l GaiMI LA-Ellard 50 pass from Everett (Lansford Comp-Att-lnt 18-29-1 
17-35-1 
Holohan 3-21 , McGee 2-25, Johnson 2-6, New York 5, Boston 4 kick), 10:55. Sacked-Yards Lost 3-14 2-14 
Cox 1-26, Anderson 1-25, Faison 1-12. Baltimore 2, Milwaukee 1, 10 innings Second Quarter Punts 1-10 4-36 
MISSED FIELD GOALS­Toronto 5, Cleveland 4, 10 innings Phi---Quick 15 pass from Cunningham Fumbles-Lost 2-2 1-1 
Philadelphia, Ruzek 36. Los Angeles, Minnesota 6, Texas 4 (Ruzek kick), 7:29. Penalties-Yards 4-40 7-55 
Lansford 48. 
Kansas City 4, California 0 LA-MeGee 10 pass from Everett Time of Possession 36:18 23:42 Detroit 6, Oakland 0 (Lansford kick), 13:03. 
Bears 10, VIkings 16 Chicago 2, Seattle 1 Phi-Williams 14 pass from Cunningham INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
Minnesota 0 6 3 7-16 Mond8y'l GaiMI (Ruzek kick), 14:26. RUSHING-Philadelphia, Toney 
Chicago 3 10 3 3-19 Baltimore (Mesa 2-2) at New York (M.Leiter 1-1), 7:30p.m. Third Quarter 24-103, Cunningham 7-44, Sherman 3-14, First Quarter Oakland (C. Young 9-5) at Kansas City (Gordon 11-11 ), 8:35p.m. Phi--FG Ruzek 18, 5:23. Byars 2-8, Drummond 1-2. Los Angeles, Chi--FG Butler 23, 5:08. Toronto (Key 11-7) at Milwaukee (Navarro 7-6), 8:35p.m. Fourth Quarter Warner 9-18, Green 1-9, Gary 4-5, Delpino 
Second Quarter California (Langston 9-16) at Texas (Ryan 13-7), 8:35p.m. Phi-Drummond 2 run (Ruzek kick), :51. 1-3. 
Chi--FG Butler 51, 1 :20. 

Only games scheduled LA-Gary 1 run (Lansford kick), 6:47. PASSING-Philadelphia, 
Min-FG lgwebuike 26, 4:59. TUHdey'a Gan.~ A-63,644. Cunningham 18-29-1-248. Los Angeles, 
Chi-Anderson 8 run (Butler kick), 13:06. Ba~imore at New York, 7:30p.m. 
Min-FG lgwebuike 24, 14:57. Cleveland at Boston, 7:35p.m. 
NFL STANDINGS Third Quarter 
Seattle at Detroit. 7:35p.m. 
Min-FG lgwebuike 22, 5:19. Minnesota at Chicago, 8:05p.m. 
Chi--FG Butler 32, 11 :40. Oakland at Kansas City, 8:35p.m. 
All Times EDT 
Fourth Quarter Toronto at Milwaukee, 8:35p.m. 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Mi~ones 17 pass from Wilson California at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
East 
(lgwebuike kick), 13:05. Miami 2 1 0 .667 60 51 w L T Pd. PF PA 
Chi--FG Butler 52, 14:56. NATIONAL LEAGUE 
A-65,420.

Buffalo 1 1 0 .500 33 40
s.turday'l Gan.~ 
N.Y. Jets 1 1 0 .500 44 46
St. Louis 3, Pittsburgh 2 
Min Chi New York 11, Chicago 5 
New England 1 2 0 .333 47 82 
First downs 15 15 Philadelphia 3, Montreal 2 
Indianapolis 0 3 0 .000 34 66 
Rushes-yards 28-133 43-215 Atlanta 3, Houston 1 Central 
Cincinnati 3 0 0 1.000 87 43 Passing 152 40 Cincinnati 6, San Diego 4, 1st game 
Return Yards 39 Cincinnati 9, San Diego 5, 2nd game 
Cleveland 2 0 .333 48 51 50 
Comp-Att-lnt 5-16-1 Los Angeles 6, San Francisco 3 Houston 2 0 .333 60 77 13-28-2 
Pittsburgh 2 0 .333 26 42 Sacked-Yards Lost 2-7 1-3
Sund8y'l GaiMI 
West Punts 4-35 4-42 Pittsburgh 7, St. Louis 2 LA Raiders 3 0 0 1.000 51 25 
Fumbles-Lost 3-0 0-0 Atlanta 3, Houston 0 Denver 2 1 0 .667 67 68 
Penalties-Yards 2-10 3-20 New York 7, Chicago 3 Kansas City 2 1 0 .667 64 48 Time of Possession 25:37 34:23 Philadelphia 2, Montreal 1 , 16 innings San Diego 1 2 0 .333 54 52 San Francisco 6, Los Angeles 2 Seattle 0 3 0 .000 44 68 INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
"•:'Jo
Cincinnati 9, San Diego 2 NATIONAL CONFERENCE RUSHING-Minnesota, Walker 
18-72, Wilson 3-36, Finney 4-24, Clark 2-1, New York (Viola 19-10) at Chicago (Lancaster 8-5), 2:20p.m. w L T Pd. PF PA Newsome 1-0. Chicago, Anderson 23-91, Montreal (Barnes 0-0) at Philadelphia (Combs 9-9), 7:35p.m. N.Y. Giants 3 0 0 1.000 75 30 Muster 14-90, Harbaugh 4-29, Green 2-5. 
Los Angeles (Valenzuela 13-12) at Houston (Portugal10-10), 8:35p.m. Washington 2 1 0 .667 63 41 PASSING-Minnesota, Wilson San Diego (Lilliquist4-10) at San Francisco (Downs 1-2), 10:05 p.m. Dallas 1 2 0 .333 39 61 13-28-2-159. Chicago, Harbaugh 5-16-1-43. Only games scheduled Philadelphia 1 2 0 .333 68 71 RECEIVING-Minnesota, 
TUHdey'a Gan.~ Phoenix 1 2 0 .333 30 80 
Mondey'l Gan.~ East 
H.Jones 5-72, Carter 4-38, Walker 2-2, Atlanta at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. Central 
Jordan 1-38, Finney 1-9. New York at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Chicago 3 0 0 1.000 67 29 Chicago, Boso 1-25, Muster 1­St. Louis at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. Tampa Bay 2 1 0 .667 75 76 
12, Smith 1-8, Morris 1-2, Anderson 1­Chicago at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Detroit 1 2 0 .333 62 75 
(minus 4). 
Los Angeles at Houston, 8:35p.m. Green Bay 1 2 0 .333 52 72 MISSED FIELD GOALS­San Diego at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m. Minnesota 1 2 0 .333 69 46 
Chicago, Butler 36. West San Francisco 3 0 0 1.000 58 38 SPORTS CALENDAR 
TRANSACTIONS 
Atlanta 1 2 0 .333 74 67 LA Rams 1 2 0 .333 80 77
receiver. Released Lee Hull and Steve 
84'3fAAU.. New Orleans 1 2 0 .333 43 52 Friday, September 21
Zatylny, wide receivers, and Quentin 
American LAague Sunday'aGanws
Riggins, linebacker. 
SEATILE MARINERs-Named Randy Washington 19, Dallas 15 Michigan State 1, Men's soccer 0 Adamack vice president of communications. HOCKEY Houston 24, Indianapolis 1 0 Volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament 
FOOTBALL Kansas City 17, Green Bay 3 Women's soccer 2, Michigan State 1 
National Hockey J..aague National Football League LOS ANGELES KINGS-Sent Robb 
New York Giants 20, Miami 3 

GREEN BAY PACKERs-Placed Bobby Stauber, goaltender, Darryl Williams and 
Chicago 19, Minnesota 16 Houston, linebacker, on the non-football Brandy Sernchuk, left wings, to New Haven 
Cincinnati 41, New England 7 illness reserve list. Re-signed Carl Bland, of the American Hockey League. Sent Sean New Orleans 28, Phoenix 7 Football20, Michigan State 19 
wide receiver. Whyte, right wing, to Phoenix of the San Diego 24, Cleveland 14 Volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament Canadian Football League International Hockey League. 
San Francisco 19, Atlanta 13 Philadelphia 27, Los Angeles Rams 21 5und8y, Seplelnber 23 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Added Ryan NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Sent Stanley Los Angeles Raiders 20, Pittsburgh 3 Hanson, running back, to the active roster. Reddick and Mark Romaine, goaltenders; Denver 34, Seattle 31, OT Marquette 4, Men's soccer 0 Reactivated Jan Cannel, slotback, from the Todd Copeland, Chris Kiene, Marc Laniel, Tampa Bay 23, Detroit 20 Women's soccer 2, Marquette 1 injured list. Transferred Tony Visco, Mike Posma, Jeff Sharples, Sergei Starikov Mond8y'a Game linebacker, to the Saskatchewan and Bob Woods, defensemen; and Perry Buffalo at New York Jets, 9 p.m. Roughriders to complete an earlier trade for Anderson, Mike Bodnarchuk, Neil Brady, Jeff Sunday, Sept 30 RESULTS Dan Payne, tackle. Christian, Bill Huard, Jeff Madill, Brennan Dallas at New York Giants, 1 p.m. 
CALGARY STAMPEDERS-Aeleasad Maley, Chris Palmer, Steve Rooney, Jason Oenver at Buffalo, 1 p.m. Paul Clatney, linebacker, from the injured Simon, Kevin Todd and Claude Vilgrain, Green Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m. Monday, September 24 list. forwards, to Utica of the American Hockey Indianapolis at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
League. Miami at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. 
No sports scheduled 
Tampa Bay at Minnesota, 1 p.m. 

SASKATCHEWAN ROUGHRIDERS­TUHdey, Septembel 25
Chicago at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. ­
COLLEGEActivated Greg Harris, wide receiver, and 
Cleveland at Kansas City, 4 p.m. 

INDIANA, Pa.-Named Keith Fritz assistant 
Jeff Fairholm, slotback. Transferred Mark No sports scheduled 
Houston at San Diego, 4 p.m. 

men's and women's swimming coach. 
Guy, wide receiver, to the reserve list. 
New York Jets at New England, 4 p.m. Released Slater Zaleski, slotback. Wednesday, September 26 
ST. FRANCIS, N.Y.-Named Frank Conroy Washington at Phoenix, 8 p.m. 
men's full-time assistant basketball coach OPEN DATE: Atlanta, Los Angeles Rams, New Orleans, San Francisco 
WINNIPEG BLUE BOMBERS-Activated 
WOMEN'S SOCCER vs. Indiana-South
and Andrew Marinos men's volunteer Mond8y, Ocl1
David Ward, linebacker; Terry Cochrane, 
Bend,5p.m.
Cincinnati at Seattle, 9 p.m. 

assistant basketball coach. 
running back; and Perry Tuttle, wide 
Monday, September 24, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
The Observer/Patrick Kusek A referee signals Notre Dame's game-winning touchdown in the closing minutes on Saturday. 
The Observer/Patrick Kusek Ricky Watters cruises into the endzone for one of his two touchdowns against Michigan State. 




-
Adrian Jarrell clutches his key fourth quarter 
reception. The sophomore flanker grabbed the pass 
after it bounced off defender Todd Murray's chest. 

Monday, September 24, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Reds near division title, Blue Jays lead Red Sox 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Eric Davis had four hits and Barry Larkin had three as the Cincinnati completed a four­gamn sweep of the Padres and lowered their magic number to live in the NL West. 
Larkin drove in three runs and Luis Quinones homered for thfl Hnds, who had 16 hits. Cincinnati outscored the Padrns 34-12 in the series and outhit San Diego 54-31. 
Danny .Jackson (6-6) allowed two runs and six hits in seven innings, struck out six and walked two. Ed Whitson (13-9) gave up seven runs and 10 hits in four-plus innings as his ERA -second in the league at the day's start -rose from 2.39 to 2.63. 
Giants 6, Dodgers 2 
LOS ANGELES -Hookie .John Burkett won his third consecutive game as San Francisco dropped the Dodgers five games out of first place with nine games remaining. 
Matt Williams had three hits, including a pair of RBI singles, and tied Joe Carter of San Diego for the league HBI lead with 114. Stan Javier also had three hits for the defending NL champion Giants, who would have been eliminated with a loss. 
Burkett (14-7) gave up eight hits and struck out a career-

In 1890, Price Waterhouse opened its first U.S. office. Already recognized overseas for innovative account­ing and business services, our goal was to introduce these new strategies to the American market. The response was phenomenal. Before long, we were one of the nation's most respected and fastest-growing firms. Today, we face a new century -not only as a respected worldwide public accounting firm, but also as a premier consulting firm offering the full range of quality technical and business services. 
The Office of Government Services (OGS) in Washington, D.C. is a vital part of our nationwide information systems consulting practice. Our clients include Federal, state, and local civilian government agencies, as well as select private sector clients. Our engagements typically involve the development of financial, human resource, and manufacturing man­agement information systems and information sys­tems auditing. While the majority of our staff members are based in the Washington, D.C. area, our engagements are nationwide; subsequently, all staff must be willing to travel. Wherever and whatever your initial assignment may be, be assured you will be designing and implementing systems using such powerful tools and technologies as: 
• 
DB2, Oracle, UNIX or C 

• 
Structured Methodologies 

• 
CA..'iE tools If a strong academic record in a technical rna,jor I e.g., MIS, Systems Engineering, etc.), consultant l<'VI·I communication skills, and career plans in a dynamic information systems consulting environ­ment are part of your eredentials, your future may 


well be with Price Waterhouse as we begin our next 100 years. 
On-Campus Interviews November 2 
To he considered for an interview with Price 
Waterhouse's Oft'ice of Government Services, drop 
your resume at Career and Placement Services 
September 24 or 25, 1990. 
Price Waterhouse 
Office of Government Services 
Ms. Caryn Perrelli 
Recruiting Manager 
I ; I /f ! . / . I f/1 ! fs.J 1801 K Street, N.W. . 1 . 1 1 I ; 1i Washington, D.C. 20006 An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. 
ltice Waterhouse 


high nine in his second com­plete game in 30 starts. Jim Neidlinger (5-2) lost for the first time in six decisions, allowing four runs and live hits in three innings. 
Phillies 2, Expos 1 

PHILADELPHIA -Charlie Hayes singled home the winning run in the 16th inning as the Expos fell 6 1/2 games out of first place. 
Howard Farmer (0-3), the sixth of seven Expos pitchers, walked Von Hayes to open the 16th. Hayes stole second, took third on a wild pitch and scored when Hayes looped a single down the right-field line ofT Bill Sam pen. 
Don Carman (6-2), the fifth Phillies pitcher, pitched 3 1-3 innings. 
Tigers 6, Athletics 0 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Cecil Fielder's 48th home run and second grand slam this year led the Detroit Tigers to a victory that postponed the Oakland Athletics' plans for a pennant­clinching party. 
The Athletics could have clinched at least a tie for their third straight American League West title by winning, but in­stead fell victim to Fielder's slugging and Jack Morris' four­hit pitching. 
Morris (13-18) faced the A's 
..... 

AP Photo Kelly Gruber of the Blue Jays is tagged out at the plate by Indians catcher Sandy Alomar on Saturday. Toronto beat Cleveland 5-4 on Sunday to take sole possession of first place in the American League East. 
while Jose Canseco and Carney Lansford sat out with sore backs, and posted his third shutout of the year. He walked three and struck out five in his 23rd career shutout as the Tigers and A's finished their season series with six games apiece. 
Detroit opened the game with three straight singles to right field but failed to score, then cashed in big with six runs in the second inning against Mike Moore (12-14). 
White Sox 2, Mariners 1 

SEATTLE (-Rookie Frank Thomas homered to break an eighth-inning tie and the Chicago White Sox stayed in the American League West race for at least another day, beating Seattle in the Mariners' home finale. 
Chicago's victory, coupled with Detroit's 6-0 win over Oakland, kept the Athletics' magic number for clinching the division at two. 
Blue Jays 5, Indians 4 

TORONTO -The Toronto Blue Jays moved back into first place in the American League East on Sunday, rallying to tie Cleveland in the ninth inning and beating the Indians 5-4 in the 10th on Mookie Wilson's single. 
The Blue Jays won their final 
THURSDAV.SEPTEMBER 27 Brown Bag 
MICHAEL S. STOHL, Professor of Political Science, Purdue University; 
Visiting Faculty Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies 
and GEORGE A. LOPEZ, Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies; Associate Professor of Government and International Studies 
"TOWARD A NEW FRAMEWORK FOR HUMAN RIGHTS MONITORING" 
12:00 noon-Room 101 Law School 
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 4 Brown Bag 
REV. WILSON D. MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. Assistant Professor of History 
"REFLECTIONS ON A VISIT TO VIETNAM AND CAMBODIA" 
12:00 noon-Room 101 Law School 
Ill INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL
111111~~;;:~!:~ 
game of the season at the SkyDome and moved one game ahead of Boston, which lost to New York 5-4. Toronto plays its last nine on the road while the Red Sox are home for eight of their last nine, including three against the Blue Jays next weekend. 
Yankees 5, Red Sox 4 
NEW YORK -Tom Bolton, starting instead of Roger Clemens, lasted only 1 1-3 in­nings Sunday as New York beat Boston 5-4 to send the Red Sox to their eighth loss in 10 games and drop them out of first place in the American League East. 
Clemens, sidelined since Sept. 4 with severe tendinitis in his right shoulder, was scratched Saturday night because of con­tinued tenderness. The Red Sox led Toronto by 6 1/2 games when Clemens last pitched, but are 6-12 since. 
a e 16  The Observer  Monday, September 24, 1990  
ND holds on to No. 1 in sportswriter's poll The National Collegiate Sportswriters Poll By RENE FERRAN with records, first place votes inSports Writer parentheses and total points. 1. Notre Dame (24) 2-0 698 Notre Dame maintained its top 2. Florida State (9) 3-0 677ranking in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters Poll 3. Auburn (1) 2-0 641 released Sunday evening, but 4. Brigham Young (1) 4-0 595Florida State edged closer to knocking the Irish from their 5. Michigan 1-1 520 perch. 6. Tennessee 3-0-1 506The top spots in the poll re­mained unchanged. The Irish, 7. Virginia 4-0 478 20-19 victors over Michigan 8. Nebraska 3-0 476State, received 24 of the possi­ble 36 first-place votes and 9. Miami, Fla. 1-1 473 compiled 698 po-ints. Florida State, with its 31-13 victory 10. Oklahoma (1) 3-0 424 over Tulane, placed second, 11. Texas A&M 3-0 312gaining nine first-place votes and 677 points. Auburn, idle 12. Washington 3-0 243 this week, held on to third posi­13. usc 2-1 225tion with one first-place vote and 641 points. Brigham Young 14. Houston 2-0 198 stayed in fourth with one first­15. Illinois 2-1 197place vote and 595 points after defeating San Diego State 62­16. Ohio State 2-0 182.5 34. 17. Clemson 3-1 170Washington and Houston made the largest jumps in the 18. Florida 3-0 148 rankings. The Huskies climbed from 21st to 12th by knocking 19. Colorado 2-1-1 129 off USC, while the Cougars 20. Arizona 3-0 127 gained five places (19th to Also receiving votes: Arizona State 14th) even though they were 31, Michigan State 29.5, Arkansas 27, Pittsburgh 9, Columbia 7, Wyoming 7,idle. The biggest decliners this UCLA 7, Georgia Tech 5, Mississippi 4,week were the Trojans (5th to Fresno State 3, Texas 3, Alabama 2, 13th) and Colorado, which fell Penn State 2, Stanford 2, Toledo 1, from 14th to 19th despite its Iowa 1.  Luck continued from page 20 two-yard line Saturday against Michigan State. Jarrell's catch set up the winning touchdown with 1:30 left in the game. An unscientific sampling of Irish players who had a part in the victory drives of the past two weeks reveals that the team believes that luck has been an integral part of these victories. "I thought it was over," Mirer said of the pass which bounced off Murray's chest. "I thought, 'Man, there's no way I should have done that.' but we got for­tunate, or lucky, or whatever you want to call it and Adrian was right there to make the catch." Jarrell, who also caught the winning touchdown pass against Michigan a week ago, subscribes to the Divine Inter­vention theory. "There's definitely someone looking over us," Jarrell said. "It makes you wonder." Senior quad-captain Ricky Watters downplayed the impor­tance of luck in the victories. "I don't like to think about luck. I like to win going out. I think it's more like we're putting ourselves in a position to win," Watters said. "It's when everyone is running their patterns right and we have great concentration out of our receivers that we get a great play like that. "On the deflection, you couJD  say that was luck, but then he caught it, he had the concentra­tion to catch it. Same thing last week-Lake Dawson had the concentration to watch the ball into his hands after the deflec­tion off Rocket (Ismail). I guess you could say it's luck, but the players are putting themselves into a position to do it." Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz admits that the Irish have been lucky, but agrees with Watters when he says that Notre Dame players help make their own luck. "There's no doubt we were lucky in some respects, but with some people it would have hit the guy's chest and been an in­completion. One thing a Notre Dame player did do was go to the ball. That's one thing that they're taught. That's twice that we have done it. Yeah, we're lucky, but I also think we played well in some areas," Holtz said. Holtz does think that Notre Dame has a certain mystique. These past two games appear to have reinforced that belief. "I really and truly believe it," Holtz said. "I believe there's a special thing about Notre Dame, I really do. Is it true? I can't say. All I can say is that I believe it." It seems that Holtz has con­vinced his players to believe it, too. And as long as they are re­solved to preserve that mys­tique, the Irish will be tough to beat regardless of whether they are good, lucky, or blessed by God.  Notre Dame 20, Michigan State 19 Notre Dame 7 0 0 13--20 Michigan St. 0 12 7 ~19 NO-Walters 5 run (Hentrich kick) MSU-FG Langeloh 43 MSU-Safety, blocked punt out of end zone MSU-Hickson 1 run (Langeloh kick) MSU-Duckett 1 run (Langeloh kick) NO-Walters 2 run (Hentrich kick) NO-Culver 1 run (run failed) A-80,401 NO MSU First downs 18 18 Rushes-yards 49-156 43-117 Passing 155 196 Return Yards 53 35 Comp-Att-lnt 14-21-0 17-25-1 Punts 5-31 5-38 Fumbles-Lost 1-0 0-0 Pena~ies-Yards 4-40 2-10 Time of Possession 29:34 30:26 INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING-Notre Dame, Watters 17-43, Culver 12-39, Brooks 9-32, Ismail 3-26, Mirer 8-16. Michigan St., Duckett 18-66, Hickson 15-63, Enos 10-(minus-12). PASSING-Notre Dame, Mirer 14-21-0-155. Michigan St., Enos 17-25-1-196. RECEIVING-Notre Dame, Ismail 5-71, Culver 3-10, Brooks 2-14, Jarrell 1-24, Brown 1-19, Smith 1-13, Watters 1-4. Michigan St., Hawkins 7-94. Bradley 3-41, Young 3-20. Hickson 2-26, Duckett 1-9, Roy 1-6. Focus on America's Future  

29-22 victory over Texas. Arkansas, with its 21-17 loss to Mississippi, dropped out of the Top 20 altogether. Thirty-five schools nationwide contributed to this week's poll, the largest number yet. 
Writers and editors from the following schools voted in this week's poll: Ball State, NC State, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Utah, Pennsylvania, Oregon, Michigan, Kansas, Indiana, Columbia, Brown, SMU, Arizona, Alabama, Notre Dame, Illinois, Arizona State, Miami, Nebraska, Virginia, Brigham Young, Colorado, Clemson, California, Harvard, Texas, Purdue, USC, 

Help Prevent Birth Defects
How you live 
~ Support the 
may save your life. 

'3i' ~!~DECQU?oJ!!l~ 

-· 
If you were one of the many crazy but enthusiastic people who signed up on Activities Night to work for 
The Observer 
Then we want YOU! If you are still interested in working for the only publication to cover both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on a daily basis, then come to an informational meeting on 
Wedneseday, September 26 at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, First Floor LaFortune 
And if you didn't come see us on Activities Night but would still like to work with us, come to the meeting. More crazy people are always welcome. 
..-------~~------~ --------------------~---------~----~-----­
Monday, September 24, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Improved defense holds MSU to 117 yards rushing 
Hawkins' seven catches a problem for NO, Lyght missed in secondary and on punting team 
By GREG GUFFEY and KEN TVSIAC Sports Writers 
EAST LANSING, Mich.­Notre Dame outside linebacker Scott Kowalkowski said he noticed an overall improvement In the Irish defense. Nose guard Chris Zorich said he thought the defense improved about 70 percent. 
But both agreed that the de­fense is still not where it should be. 
"We want to totally dominate an offense and a game," Kowalkowski said. "We're not to that point yet, but we will be." 
Michigan State gained 117 yards on the ground, but 32 of those were on a cutback by Hyland Hickson in the second quarter. Michigan gained 253 
' 

yards on the ground last week. 
"Other than a couple of cut­backs, we played the run pretty well," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. 
Said Kowalkowski, "We shut them down for the most part. We were much improved over last week. Overall, I thought in our attitude and fundamentals, we made great strides. We're still not where we want to be." 
Zorich recorded 11 total tackles, including one sack for a loss of six yards. 
"I think we made about a 70 percent improvement compared to last week," Zorich said. "I think it's coming along." 
It was obvious that Notre Dame missed All-American cornerback Todd Lyght in the secondary. Freshman Greg Lane, who replaced Lyght, had a hard time covering Michigan 
.

Heres your opportumty to clean up your act! 
Isn't it time you considered doing away with the low resolution of the l..aserwriter? No longer do you have to settle for printing materials in which the type is jagged and difficult to read at small point sizes. Using our Unotronic 200P your fonts and graphics are accurately spaced and registered, blacks are solid, whites are clean and 
tones are crisp. 
What's more all ~Jhs are guaranteed to be completed in twenty-four hours or less or we'll output it for free. And we offer pick-up and delivery to any administrative or aGtdemic office on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus. 
Best of all, we offer high quality outputting at extremely reasonable prices. In fat1 our prices are some of the lowest in the nation. Special discount~ are also available for large jobs. 
Our staff is familiar with most major desktop publishing and graphics programs for 
the Macintosh. And we have alarge library of Adobe Typefaces. 
Isn't it time you did away with the 300 dpi resolution of the l.aserwriter and switched to the 1270 dpi resolution of our Unotronic lmagesetter? 
for more information call Observer Typesetting at 239-7471. 
BffifEj3 observer typesetting tffi1ffiB 
314 LaFortune Student Center 
239-7471 
State star Courtney Hawkins, 
who caught seven passes for 94 
yards. 
Lyght's absence was less ob­
vious, but just as critical, to the 
punting team. Michigan State 
almost got to punter Craig 
Hentrich early in the second 
quarter, and then managed to 
block a kick through the end­
zone for a safety with 8:13 re­
maining in the first half. 
"We lost Todd Lyght in the kicking game and had to make a few changes, and we had a missed call," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "On the one before we had one guy miss (a block) and we corrected him, and the next play another guy thought, 'Well, gee, I must have been wrong,' and we ended up with a blocked kick and those things are disastrous." 
Lyght made the trip to East 
Lansing but did not dress for 
the game. 
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer is making a name for himself as a clutch player. For the sec­ond straight week he completed five of six passes on a late fourth-quarter touchdown drive. Mirer says his teammates help him keep his cool down the stretch. 
"I think what sticks out is the senior leadership. The guys who have been through it all before don't get uptight and don't get nervous. They just 
Win 
continued from page 20 
a four-yard gain by Brooks, 
------_., 

Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
say, We've done it before and 
we'll do it again, that's part of 
our job,' " Mirer said. "We have 
guys like Ricky Watters and 
Tony Brooks who have been 
through this before and they 
carried us through again." 

Senior quad-captain Ricky Watters explains that the se­niors have to keep their emo­tions under control. 
"What a senior has to do is just keep everyone calm," says Watters. "We have to have a lot of enthusiasm, but we can't be all radical and everything. The seniors are the ones who have to say, 'Hey, relax, everything's cool, we're just going to do like we always do.' We feel like we're the champs, and we just have to play like that." 
Michigan State coach George Perles lived up to his promise that he would keep kickoffs away from Raghib Ismail. 
Ismail was back deep for four kickoffs but fielded only one. He picked that one up on the bounce and returned it 12 yards. 
"It doesn't bother me at all," Ismail said. "You expect it now." 
Ismail returned two punts for 30 yards. 
Perfection usually comes with practice. The success of Notre Dame's late drives must be at-
Mirer hit Tony Smith on third­and-four for a 13-yard gain to the Michigan State 43. Then on third-and-nine from the 42 ­possibly the biggest play of the drive -Mirer found Brooks over the middle for an 11-yard gain and a first down. Two plays later, he connected with Jarrell on the deflection. 
The Spartans had one last chance with 34 seconds remain­ing, but could not put anything together. 
"There were a lot of breaks in the game," Michigan State coach George Perles said. "Some went with us and some went against us. Obviously, we think we can play with anyone 
~:XK,;; ::oaD<)M<~:~~::laiK~~~~~~ in the coun.try. Today we got 
SIGN-UPS 
TODAY& TOMORROW! Register by submitting your resume to the Placement Center. 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS October 30th & November 1st 
INFORMATION SHARING Monday October 29th 7:00p.m. Alumni Room Morris Inn 
A Unique Consulting Firm 
HewittAssociates 
is visiting the University ofNotre Dame 
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and actuaries specializing in the design, financing, communication, and administration of employee benefit and compensation programs. We are included In the publications The 100 Best Companies to Work for In America and The Best Companies for Women. 
We are Interested In students with the following majors: 
ComputerApplications Math 
with Computer concentration Management with MIS concentration Economics Math 
Finance Accounting 
We look for people who are adaptable. creative. analytical, and intelligent; people who work well to,:!;ether. Our challen,:!;e Is to identity and develop those people wbo can respond to the opportunities oftoday and tomorrow. 
~ 
Hewitt Associates 
• Uncolnshlre. IL • SantaAna. CA. •\\Slnut Creek, CA. 
• Rowayton. CI' • Boston. MA • Bedmlnlster. NJ 
• Atlanta. GA • Las Collnas. TX • The \\bodlands, TX 
~. beat by a pomt. The team was a ~ point better than us."
INotre Dame scored first, but 
then Michigan State controlled .... the middle quarters. 
Raghib Ismail got things started for the Irish, returning a Josh Butland punt 21 yards late in the first quarter to the Michigan State 41. Two plays later, Ismail gained 19 yards on a reverse around the left side. On third-and nine from the 18, Mirer hit Ismail in the right flat for 10 yards and a first down. Watters scored the touchdown 
i Happy 18th 
I Birthday 
~ Jennifer! 
I 

September 24, 1990 
I 
I 
I Love, MomandDad 

An equal opporlwtlly employerrnlf. 
~~~~~~--~..~--~......~......... 
tributed to some other source, 
though. 
"We don't work on it all," 
Irish coach Lou Holtz said of 
the two-minute drill. "I don't 
even know if we have one. 
We've worked on it a total of 
maybe 20 minutes; 10 minutes 
twice. We've got enough things 
to work on besides the two­
minute drill. If we run it right 
(throughout the game), we 
don't need a two-minute drill." 
Notre Dame nose tackle Chris Zorich got the best of former teammate Jeff Pearson in the trenches. Pearson, the Spartan center who transferred out of Notre Dame three years ago, allowed Zorich to record a team-high 11 tackles. Zorich also sacked Michigan State quarterback Dan Enos in the fourth quarter four a six-yard loss. 
Irish linebacker Mike Stonebreaker turned in his sec­ond straight outstanding per­formance against the Spartans. Saturday Stonebreaker sacked Enos once and had eight tack­les and one interception as well. The Irish senior last faced the Spartans two years ago in East Lansing. In that game, Stonebreaker recorded 17 tackles and returned an inter­ception for a touchdown which provided the final margin in a 20-3 Notre Dame victory. 
on a five-yard run two plays later. 
"We came out strong but then we died down a little bit in the second quarter," Mirer said. 
Michigan State got on the board early in the second quar­ter when John Langeloh con­nected on a 43-yard field goal shortly after a Tom Carter in­terception was called back be­cause of a roughing the passer call against the Irish. The Spartans added a safety on the next series when Murray blocked a Craig Hentrich punt into the endzone. 
Michigan State made it seven points in less than 10 minutes after receiving the free kick from Notre Dame. The big play was a 32-yard run by Hyland Hickson to the one-yard line. Hickson, who finished the day with 63 yards rushing, scored the touchdown three plays later. 
The Spartans tallied their fi­nal score on their only posses­sion of the third quarter, an 88­yard drive on 12 plays. Enos did the damage in this series, completing four of five passes for 75 yards, a third of his total 196 yards passing. Tico Duckett scored the touchdown on a one-yard run. 
... 
.. 
-----------~~--------------­
The Observer 
page _18 

Bengals, Giants and Bears win 
Montana leads San Francisco over Atlanta 19-13 
(AP) -The Bengals, Giants and Bears remained unbeaten in. varying fashions on Sunday. Cincinnati used quick-striking offense, New York did it with overpowering defense and Chicago won with special teams. 
The 49ers and Los Angeles Raiders also won their third straight games, San Francisco doing it on the wing of Joe Montana, naturally, while the Raiders continued their hot play at home under Art Shell. 
Montana threw for 398 yards and two scores in a 19-13 victory over Atlanta. Roger Craig tied Walter Payton's record for career receptions by a running back and Dave Waymer intercepted two passes. 
The Raiders, now 8-0 under Shell in games at the LA Coliseum, got TDs from Marcus Allen and Mervyn Fernandez 
2:31 apart in the fourth quarter in a 20-3 win over punchless Pittsburgh. 
The Bengals and Giants cruised over New England and Miami, respectively. The Bears, however, got a big break and converted it into Kevin Butler's 52-yard field goal with four seconds remaining for a 19-16 victory over Minnesota. 
Vikings punter Harry Newsome fumbled a snap with 25 seconds left. The Bears recovered on the Minnesota 39, failed to make a first down, and Butler kicked his fourth field goal of the game. 
With just 1:55 remaining, the Vikings (1-2) tied it on a 17­yard pass from Wade Wilson to Hassan Jones. 
"It ranks right up there," Butler said of his game­winning kick. "Any kick that wins a game ranks right up there." 
The Bengals grabbed a 31-0 lead on the way to a 41-7 rout of New England, which fell apart with four fumbles, two interceptions, two blown coverages on defense, a botched punt and an end zone interception nullified by a holding penalty. Cincinnati's Jim Breech hit a 46-yard field goal in the first period that gave him a league-record 152 consecutive games with a score, surpassing the NFL mark set by Fred Cox of Minnesota. 
"I was glad to get it out of the way early," Breech said. "When l saw it fly through l said, 'Yeah!' It got that over, and it got us off to a quick start." 
The Giants completely shackled Miami's offense, which managed only 39 yards rushing. Dan Marino had a mere 115 yards passing and New York kept the ball for 40 minutes, 18 seconds in a 20-3 win. Ottis Anderson scored on a pair of 1-yard runs as he became the NFL's No. 8 all-time rusher with 9,433 yards, moving ahead of Earl Campbell. 
In other games, it was Philadelphia 27, the Los Angeles Rams 21; Denver 34, Seattle 31 in overtime; Washington 19, Dallas 15; Houston 24, Indianapolis 10; Kansas City 17, Green Bay 3; New Orleans 28, Phoenix 7; San Diego 24, Cleveland 14; and Tampa Bay 23, Detroit 20. 
Buffalo visits the New York Jets on Monday night. 
49ers 19, Falcons 13 
At San Francisco, the defending champions didn't get many points, even though Montana was on fire. He made 24 of 36 throws, hitting Jerry Rice for a 35-yard score and Brent Jones for 67 yards. Jones carried Deion Sanders on his back the last 10 yards. 
Craig tied Payton's record of 492 catches with a second­quarter reception that lost two yards. 
Raiders 20, Steelers 3 
As Pittsburgh's attack continued to sputter -the Steelers have not scored an offensive touchdown this season -the Raiders kept up the defensive pressure. They have yielded only 25 points so far and had six sacks of Bubby Brister. 
Allen scored on a 1-yard run with 11:03 remaining and Fernandez caught a 66-yard TD pass from Jay Schroeder with 
8:32 left for only the third and fourth touchdowns by the Raiders' offense this season. Fernandez had five receptions for 130 yards. 
Bears 19, Vikings 16 
At Chicago, Butler had field goals of 23, 51 and 32 yards before his winning kick, while Donald Igwebuike connected on three kicks for Minnesota. 
Neal Anderson had an 8-yard touchdown run in the first half and the Bears controlled the ball with 17 straight running plays at one point in the second half. But Wilson completed five passes on an 80-yard drive to the tying touchdown. 
Then came Newsome's bobble. 
"I let down 4 7 guys, I let down the coaches," Newsome said. "I just wonder why it happened. I always considered myself to have good hands. I practice that 30 to 40 times a day. Now, it will stick in my mind the rest of my life. It was a wobbly snap and it went through my hands." 
Bengals 41, Patriots 7 
At Cincinnati, Rodney Holman scored two touchdowns, one on a shovel pass from holder Lee Johnson on a fake field goal, and the Bengals held New England to 34 yards rushing. Boomer Esiason had two TD passes, but none to Tim McGee, who still managed six catches for 163 yards. 
Marc Wilson, starting in place of the injured Steve Grogan, had his first pass intercepted and things never got any better for the Patriots (1-2). 
Giants 20, Dolphins 3 
The first meeting between the Giants and Dolphins since 1972 -and only the second ever ­was a disaster for Miami. The Dolphins got into New York territory only once and their running game, ranked second in the league, was invisible. Sammie Smith, whose 215 yards rushing led the league, went for nine on five carries. 
"This was the first big game we've played in a while," said Dolphins coach Don Shula, whose team was trying to start a season 3-0 for the first time since 1984. 
Eagles 27, Rams 21 
At Anaheim, the Eagles finally got going after two losses. Randall Cunningham threw for two touchdowns and Andrew Toney ran for 103 yards in a matchup of last year's NFC wild card teams. 
The weak running game was bolstered by Toney, who became the first Eagle since 1987 to rush for 100 yards. Tight end Keith Jackson caught four passes for 77 yards just four days after ending a 50-day holdout and Cunningham had scoring throws to Calvin Williams and Robert Drummond. 
Broncos 34, Seahawks 31 
At Denver, John Elway and David Treadwell reworked their magic six days after rallying the Broncos over Kansas City in the final moments. 
This time, they needed to go into an extra period. Elway completed three passes and Bobby Humphrey ran 26 yards on a draw play, setting up Treadwell's 25-yard winning field goal. 
Redskins 19, Cowboys 15 
The Cowboys couldn't duplicate their last two trips to Washington, when they won. Chip Lohmiller kicked four field goals, one from 55 yards, and Darrell Green ran an interception back for a touchdown. 

-----­--­Monday, September 24, 1990  
SPORTS BRIEFS The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastic Club will meet Mon.-Fri. from 4:30·6:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility at SMC. New members are welcome; no experience necessary. Questions, call Mary at 284-5341, Timmy at 3268, John at 2101 or Katie at 4877. Stepan Center Basketball court time scheduling meeting will be held Thursday, Sept. 27th, 6-7 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All hall athletic commissioners and group representatives requiring court time must attend this meeting. Please RSVP for the meeting by Tuesday, Sept. 25th to Student Activities, 239-7308. The Ice Rink is opened to students, faculty and staff , Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 12-1 p.m. FREE ICE. All varsity rowers meet in 104 O'Shag on Wednesday, Sept. 26th at 7:30p.m. to organize for Pittsburgh. St. Mary's College Varsity Track meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 26th at 7:30 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility for new and returning athletes. The Notre Dame men's soccer team lost to Michigan State 1-0 on Friday night and lost to Marquette 4-0 on Sunday. The women's team beat Michigan State 2-1 on Friday and tied Marquette 1-1 on Sunday. See Tuesday's Observer for full details.  
for us to get sick, but we'r going to go out and have a goo1Tennis time and play good tennis." DiLucia got his closest comcontinued from page 20 petition from Coleman, as h won his early matches 6-2, 6-1 North, who defaulted in the 6-2, 6-1; 6-1, 6-4; and won hi second set of the B Flight semi­semi-final match 6-2, 6-2. H(finals because of torn hip mus­ 

------...----.. 
got his passing shots at the fee 
cles suffered during the match. 
of his opponents and rare!
After taking the first set 6-3 
missed when he played at th~and up 4-3 in the second, North 
net. 

was forced to withdraw Sophomore Paul Anthony was 
Freshman Tad Eckert, the 
the surprise of the tournament,
number 19 seed in the C Flight, defeating his first round singles
also played much better at opponent and reaching the A 
home than at Navy, reaching 
Flight doubles quarter-final
the singles final, which was 
with Ryan Wenger. 

postponed until later this week. Eckert has strep throat and "Paul showed the kind of per· 
teammate Ryan Wenger, the 
formance that we thought he 
ninth seed, has the flu. which 
had the potential for," said 
caused coach Bob Bayliss to Bayliss. "He didn't play much postpone the match until later last year and came out and didin the week. 
a great job." Ron Rosas lost in the B Flight 
"The freshmen played with singles quarter finals, 6-4, 6-1, 
more confidence and adjusted 
but teamed with sophomore
well to the switch from outdoor Mark Schmidt to reached the 
courts to indoors,"said Eckert. 
semis in B Flight Doubles com~ 
"It was just a really bad time petition. 
If You're Considering ACareer In Tax···There's Something Important You Should Know 
Your clients won't expect you to know every word and phrase of the Internal Revenue Code. They will expect you to know the industry-specific business issues they are facing and how the Code affects their particular business. And they will look to you, the broad­based tax adviser, to manage a series of relationships involving a wide range of tax sub­jects-from the general to the highly specific. 
Most people who join the PW tax team directly from college become broad-based business advisers responsible for the overall client relationship. You can count on PW for the techni­cal tax training and practical experiences you need to become a top-level tax professionaland business adviser that clients can rely on. 
To learn more about becoming a Price Waterhouse Tax Adviser, please interview with us when we're on campus October 8 & 9. 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIH Price Waterhouse 

Monday, September 24, 1990 The Observer 
page 19 

.. 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Old Testament &1 "... -daily book bread" 
1 Rooms at Ga. 
Monday 29 Tropical plant &2 Card game
Tech 8 p.m. Concert: SAUD Four-Piece Jazz Ensemble. 30 Blubbers
5 African snake 64 Bizarre 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre 34 One, in 
1oWeaken &5 Certify
Dame's Office of Minority Student Affairs. Germany 
13 U.S.S.R. range 66 Where Ia Chine 
3& Cottons to is14 Co-op 

39 Board gameemployees &7 Bandleader
42 England's Scilly 15--Aviv Brown 16 Children's 43 Shortly &&Innermost part game 
44 Mex. wives' &9 Golfers' needs 18 NATO member titles 
19 One of 
45 Actress Turner 
DOWN

baseball's 47 Kooks
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Jacksons 
49 Grain ears 1 Comedian 20 Greek letter Bert's family 
51 Picked up the 21 On the-2 Foreigner
Tuesday tab 
(punctual) 56--la-la 3 "The Red -of
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar: "Latin America: 
22 Showed disdain 57 Sigma follower Courage"
Consolidation of Democracy in Times of Economics 
24 Siberian plain &o Diner 4 Military 
Crisis," Faculty Fellow, Francisco Weffort. Room 131 
encirclement

Declo Faculty Hall. Brown Bag Lunch. Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 5 Kind of hen or 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
turtle 

6 Church 
... 
projection 25 Face-powder 40 Anglo-Saxon 53 Badger
7 Come together 

ingredient laborer 54 Tennessee­a Swimmer's­
2& Actors Estrada 411mplore Ford stroke 
and Rhodes 4& Crafty 55 One of Connie 9 Question 28 Architectural 48 Actor Connery Mack's stars MENUS 
10Card game bracket 49 Kind of pigeon 5&Moviedog 30---fi 50 Bluenose 
59 Consumer

11 Fabulist 52 Facing the &2 Cheer
31 Cries of surprise12 Piece of
Notre Dame pitcher &3Adherent
tableware 32 Table game 14 "Gesundheit" 33 Kind of thief
Roast Top Round 

Answers to any three clues in this Turkey Turnover w/ Supreme Sauce puzzle are available by touch-tone
preceders 35 Holler 
17 Leeds's river 37 Epoch

Vegetables Marinarsa phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 23 Dehydrates 38 Draft agcy. minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
~ Sh\Po.ll RED f..I 11\E mtHI<OI.S, liS 
S?Po.CIOCAAFT .-Nc:.t-lt. 0\\-IE.R 1\lP-.N CYJR BRE.M~S 114R.C~JG4 FE~Rl£.SS 1-\ERO, 1\-IE. CLO\JO COIJ~ SPP..CE.MP>.~ SP\F~! cr t-\~Sit.RIO 
S'ISID<\ PLAI'IEI'.' 

..
POW/MIA LECTURE 


...., 
-
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
---------~ 
, 
Sports 

Monday, September 24, 1990
a e 20 

Notre Dame pulls off second comeback miracle 
Jarrell grabs deflected pass to set-up Culver's touchdown as Irish beat Michigan State 20-19 
... 
The Observer/Patrick Kusek Rod Culver barrels past Spartan linebackers Dixon Edwards during Saturday's game against Michigan State. Culver had 39 yards rushing and scored the game-winning touchdown. 
ND is more than lucky in two late-game victories 
EAST LANSING, Mich.-For the sec­ond straight week a tipped pass was a 
pivotal play in a nailbiter of a Notre Dame football victory. Is ·the hand of God steering these key passes into the hands of Notre Dame receivers? Are the Irish just lucky? Or is this just another case of a team making its own breaks? 

We will never know the answer to that first question. We do know that Ken Tysiac theologians generally frown on the Associate Sports Editor 
concept of Divine Intervention in Football Games, but we cannot be cer­tain in this life whether God really made Notre Dame number one the past two weeks. 
But how much of a part does luck play? 
In last week's game against Michigan, freshman receiver Lake Dawson plucked a Rick Mirer pass out of the air for a 45-yard gain on a key third-down play late in the third quarter. Normally, that would not seem unusual. But that pass had already bounced off the hands of Irish flanker Raghib Ismail, the intended receiver. 
As if that wasn't enough, sophomore Adrian Jarrell caught a Mirer pass which caromed off the chest of Spartan cornerback Todd Murray for a 34-yard gain down to the 
see LUCK 1page 16 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Oave Dilucia defeated teammate Chuck Coleman in the Flight A finals of the Tom Fallon Invitational on Sunday. 
• 
-

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­Another weekend, another miracle for the Notre Dame football team. 
The top-ranked Irish over­came a 19-7 fourth-quarter deficit Saturday to defeat Michigan State 20-19 before 80,401 fans in Spartan Stadium, the largest crowd ever to watch a MSU game. 
Notre Dame turned in a near repeat performance of last weekend's 28-24 victory over Michigan in improving to 2-0, while Michigan State fell to 0-1­1. 
"We just have to find a way to win each and every week," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "It looked bleak. Once again, we were down by two scores late in the football game but we found a way to win." 
Rodney Culver scored the game-winning touchdown on a one-yard run with just under one-minute remaining in the game, but it was an improbable deflection that put the Irish in position to get the victory. 

On second-and-five from the Michigan State 36, Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer threw a bullet near the right front corner of the endzone. The ball bounced off the numbers of Spartan cornerback Todd Murray and into the hands of Irish receiver Adrian Jarrell, who went out of bounds at the two-yard line. Culver scored three plays later. 
"I was ready to make the tackle," said Jarrell, who caught the winning touchdown pass against Michigan. "It just hit him in the chest and I caught it. I was in the right place at the right time and I just stayed in bounds." 
Said Mirer, "As soon as I let go of it, I saw the defender. I hadn't seen him coming. Adrian was right there again, making another great play. We were just trying to make something happen. I thought I was going to have to play defense for a second." 
The Irish made little happen until late in the third quarter when Mirer orchestrated a 16­play, 66-yard drive that ended when tailback Rick Watters ran two yards for the touchdown. That pulled the Irish within six at 19-13. 
The Spartans retaliated quickly, moving into Notre Dame territory on just four plays. But on second and 16 from the 39, Irish linebacker Michael Stonebreaker inter­cepted a Dan Enos pass at the Notre Dame 26 and returned it 23 yards. That was Stonebreaker's second inter­ception in as many games. 
After the teams traded punts, Notre Dame took over for its final drive with 5:15 left in the game on its own 19. Mirer opened with a 19-yard pass to Derek Brown, but then offen­sive holding negated a 12-yard run by Tony Brooks. 
After an incomplete pass and 
see WIN I page 17 

Notre Dame linebacker Donn Grimm stops Michigan State's Hyland Hickson while other Irish defenders rush to assist. Hyland had 63 of the Spartans' 117 yards on the ground. 
Dilucia beats Coleman in finals 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
The return of All-American David DiLucia to the N()tre Dame men's tennis team brought a surge of confidence that helped the Irish dominate this weekend at the Tom Fallon Invitational. 
Rainy conditions forced the tournament inside to the Eck Pavilion ·and South Bend Racquet Club, which hurt some teams but allowed Irish team­mates DiLucia and Chuck Cole­man to reach the A Flight sin­gles final, which DiLucia won 6-2, 6-4. The two also paired up to take the A Flight doubles championship, 6-3, 7-5 over a Ball State duo that beat the Notre Dame team of Ryan. Wenger and Paul Anthony in the semi-finals. 
The Sunday night singles matchup was tough for both, who had played eight previous matches over the course of the tournament. DiLucia, after an All-America performance last season, is on the pace for an even better showing this year. 

"DiLucia played extremely well," said coach Bob Bayliss. "He's playing at a level above where he was last year. He just mixed in high loops and short chips, and ran everything down. 
Coleman reached the finals by beating two of the best players in the tournament. An impressive 6-3, 6-2 win over West Virginia's Patrick Westoo, the singles champion at last week's Navy Tournament, was only the start for Coleman. He went on to an even more impressive 6-1, 6-2 semi-final victory against Michigan's Dan Brakus before facing DiLucia in the finals. 
Neither player admired the task of facing a teammate to determine the winner, however. 
"We play each other so much in practice and we know what to expect from each other," said DiLucia, who played much of the tournament with a broken toenail. "After playing so many matches this weekend, it was kind of hard to get motivated for a Sunday night final, but I think we brought out the best in each other." 
Coleman, able to play with the help of a stellar performance by the Irish trainers, was pleased with the overall team effort that was lacking last week. 
"The Navy tournament woke us up and made us realize how bad we could actually play," said Coleman. "It was great to come back from last week and make it to the finals, but play­ing Dave was a tough situation to be in." 
After an opening tournament last week on the road, the young Irish squad relished the chance to compete on its own courts. 
"I was really nervous at the Navy tournament and just wasn't able to play my type of game," said freshman Tommy 
see TENNIS I page 18 




