
VOL. XXIII NO. 129 MONDAY , APRIL 23, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. hostage freed by Iranian-backed capt1ves 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) -A 
briefing by U.S. intelligence of­captivity and tried to keep his 
Robert Polhill 
gaunt, pale Hohnrt Polhill was ficers at a U.S. military hospi­mind off the possibility of free­freed Sunday by pro-Iranian tal. Other American captives dom. 

Kidnapped
Shiit•~ Moslem militants in freed in the past have also gone "I strived to continue to be 
Jan.24, 1987

Beirut after 1.1 R2 days as a fuMe. · angry, knowing at all times 
Released

hostag•~. and lw said his anger President Hush thanked Syria that if I began to lose that 
Apr/122, 1990

kept him aliw. and Iran for their roles in free­anger I would just sort of be­lin was the first American ing Polhill, and called for the come a vegetable and I didn't 
hostage to lw relnas•~d in nearly release of all the hostages. want that to happen," he said 
3 112 ynars. Seventeen Western hostages in the interview. 
Polhlll was held hostage
remain missing in Lebanon, in­The terms of the release, 
by the Islamic Jihad for
• Bush's reaction/ page 6 
cluding seven Americans. which followed a series of 
the Liberation of Palestine. 
In Iran. a newspaper dose to Polhill, a professor of business communiques from the Shiite 
• Age 55, New York 
Iranian l'n~sidt~nt Hashemi studies and accounting at Moslem kidnappers, were not 
• Professor of business 
Hafsanjani said Monday that Beirut University College, and known. 
studies and accounting at


Robert Polhlll

the Lebanese kidnappers should two other U.S. educators, Jesse Guards outside the 
Beirut University College 
ndnas1~ anotlwr American happy man tonight," Polhill Turner and Alann Steen, were Summerland who witnessed the 
• Currently married to his
hostage immediately without told a news conference in held by the Islamic Jihad for release said Polhill stepped out 
second wife, Feryal. Polhill
coml i lions. Damascus, looking dazed but the Liberation of Palestine. of a car that screeched to a 
has two children from his 
l'olhill. 55, of N1~w York, was elated. In a Syrian TV interview, halt about 50 yards from the 
first marriage.
freed nnar the sr,asidr, Polhill said he was grateful to hotel. 
• Polhillls a diabetic who 
Summnrland 11otel in Moslr,m Early Monday, he and his those who helped him, but He was immediately picked up 
requires daily medication. 
wPsl lkirut at 5:15 p.m. (11: 15 Lebanese wife, Feryal, took off added: ''I'm still deeply con­by a three-car Syrian convoy 
• Attended Cornell University and graduated from New 
a.m. 1-:llT) and driven immedi­from the Syrian capital in a cerned about my two friends and driven off at high speed. 
atPly to l>amasrus wlwn~ hr, U.S. Air Force C-131 transport and others who are still held in The Syrian TV footage 
York University In 1961,
was tunwd ovPr to U.S. for Weisbaden, West Germany. the conditions I was held in." showed Polhill being driven Ambassador l·:dward l>jnrnjian. In Weisbaden, Polhill will un­Polhill said he played cards 
after which he began work "I want to tPII you I'm a very dergo medieal checks and a de-with other hostages during his see Hostage I page 6 
as a New York accountant. 

Coup attempt in AP Nigeria crushed 
LAGOS, Nigeria (API -Tho military govern­ment said it crushed a coup attempt Sunday after heavy lighting with ronegado troops who wanted to broak up Nigeria's federation of states to end Moslem domination. 
The rebellious soldiers battled troops loyal to President Gen. Ibrahim Babangida for control of the capital Sunday after radio reports said that a coup was under way in this sprawling West African nation. 
But 11 hours after tho fighting began. Lt. Gen. Sani Abacha. army chief and chairman of tho joint chiefs of staff, went on tho radio to say tlw coup was smashed. lie also said Babangida was safe. 
Ahacha's declaration that rebels not already in custody should give thomselvns up suggested that pockets of resistance remained. 
The rebellion appeared to be led by middle­ranking officers opposed to traditional domina­tion by Moslem northerners over the e1mtral and southern states, which are mainly Christian and animist. 
Early Sunday, a man identifying hims•~lf as Maj. Gideon Ngwozor Oka announced on tlw Lagos station of Hadio Nigeria: 
"Fellow Nigerian citizens, on b•~half of the pa­triotic and well-meaning peoples of the Middle Belt and southern parts of this country, I ... wish to happily inform you of the successful
The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Spring comes to ND 
ousting of the dictatorial, corrupt, drug-baro­
nish, inhumane, sadistic, deceitful, homosexually 
Many students enjoyed the beautiful weather this past weekend by participating in act!vities such as the Fisher Regatta, Hog­
centered and unpatriotic administration of Gnn. 
stock,and St. Ed's carnival or just by stretching out on the quad to catch some of the f1rst rays of the tanning season. 
Canadian air force jet fighter crashes in Pacific 
t·:DMONTON. Alberta (AI') Comox on the British 
-A Canadian air force jet Columbian island were 
lighter craslwd Sunday into searching for the jet. 
the l'adlk Ocean about 1R The fighter is part of the 
miles wnst of Vancouver 441 Tactical Fighter 
Island, a military Squadron based at CFB Cold 
spokeswoman said. The fate Lake. 
of the pilot was unknown. The CF-1 R is a version of 
The one-man CF-1 R the American-made F-18 
1·.rashed shortly after 2 p.m. fighter, built by St. Louis­
PDT, said Maj. Jan based McDonnell Douglas. 
Martinsen of the Canadian The crash was the second 
Forces base in Cold Lake, involving Canadian Forces F-
Alberta. lie did not release 18s in five days. One pilot 
the pilot's name. was killed and another 
The aircraft was on a rou­slightly injured after two of 
tine training mission with a the Canadian jets collided 
second CF-1 R, she said. over the West German city of 
Search and rescue aircraft Karlsruhe, showering the 
from the forces' base in city with flaming debris. 
Ibrahim Babangida." 
Sandinistas content with electoral process in Nicaragua, official says; wants peace 
Chamorro, is scheduled to take
By PETER LOFTUS 
control of the Nicaraguan gov­
Assistant News Editor 
ernment Wednesday, April 25. The Sandinistas, whosn ideol­Although he will be out of a ogy is bas•~d on a Marxist-so­job by April 25, one Nicaraguan 
cialist foundation, have bnen in government official is content 
control of the government sinee their revolution in 1979. In 
• Story on lecture I page 7 1984, they also won a free 
election whieh allownd them to that the democratic electoral retain power. process was successfully car­Bendana, 39, who roceivnd a ried out, and that the first Ph.D. in history from Harvard peaceful transfer of power in University in 1979, said that he, Nicaraguan history will take "can't pretend not to be disap­place. pointed" that Chamorro won 
Alejandro Bendana, the secre­the presidential election on tary general of the Nicaraguan February 25. foreign ministry. answered questions at a Friday press conference about his views on see Bendana I page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Urgent messages for urgent times 

"Because something is happening here and you don't know what it is, do you, Mr. Jones?" was a ques­tion asked by those "in" during the 60s and is being asked again now by pilgrims Joe Moody returning from Med-. . jugorje, Yugoslavia. Assistant News Editor 
While most of the 

campus will be racing to get away from 
academia as soon as possible, or just plain 
getting sloppy, thousands of peace-loving, 
Rosary-praying people, either in-touch with 
or searching for God, will be streaming to 
Notre Dame to keep-up or find out what is 
happening. 
The University's own JACC is the location of the 1990 National Conference on Medju­gorje. It begins the last day of finals (May 
11) and continues until Sunday. 
The uproar began nearly nine years ago when the Virgin Mary was reported to be appearing to six children (called visionar­ies), and delivering them urgent messages. 
After spending the "best years of their lives" growing up conveying the messages to the world, the visionaries (all adults now) still receive the apparitions while continu­ing to follow the messages and live their ordinary lives as citizens. 
From the simplicity of this small agricul­tural community between two mountains are coming the simple messages of prayer, peace, and conversion. New? No. 
Is humankind trying to breathe life back into a dead God? Or is God trying to breathe life back into a dead humankind? 
I went. I saw. And my answer is "both." If 

God works, he is at work there. The pil­
grims struggle too -struggling to awaken 
themselves, and to reform themselves. 
No matter what the weary critics or the 

"lonely" letters to a god say who haven't 
stepped foot in Medjugorje, the fact remains 
that the floodgates have opened spilling 
forth a conversion over millions from that 
remote Communist village that the critics 
and letters have not. 
Maybe it's no different than the kids on 

the "Mysteries of the Unexplained" commer­
cials saying they were suspended in midair 
by some "force" at Stonehenge. 
Maybe they're no different than the fol­

lowers of Charles Manson in his "helter 
skelter" days, or Shirley "New Age" 
MacLaine relating to the public her "past 
life" as a donkey in Mozambique. But look 
at the fruit to judge the tree, and the differ­
ence becomes obvious. 
The messages stemming from Medjugorje 

are the same as Lourdes and Fatima. But 
they seem much more urgent this time 
around. In Lourdes the apparitions oc­
curred in the morning, in Fatima at noon, 
and in Medjugorje at sundown. Will there be 
a midnight apparition? Probably not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o.f The Observer. 


-Ih-e-Obse..~~or_­
_ _ _ _ • 4 
a.~Y=-'-' 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 . (219)-239-7 4 71 
Today's Staff: 
News VIeWPOint Ad Design 
Pete Loftus Melissa Gorham Lisa Gunsorek 
Mike Owen Kathy Welsh Anita Covelli 
Becky Pichler Tony Paganelli 
Accent Joy Harris 
Cristina Ortiz Systems Ryan Roberts 
Colleen Cronin Amalia Meier Mary Sain 
Dan Towers 
SportS 
CirculationRich Kurz Business Bill O'Roukrke 
Sandra Weigand Matt Novak 
Production Maureen Gallagher 
Christine Anderson Scoreboard 
Beth Peterson Scott Brutocao 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frida¥ except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Monday, April 23. 
Yesterday's high: 73 


Yesterday's low: 42 Nation's high: 94 
Lines show high temperatures. 
(Chamoerlain, SD and Presidio, Tex.) Nation's low: 26 
(Bradford, PA) 
Forecast: 
Mostly sunny and warm today with a high around 
75. Tonight will be fair and warmer with a low in the middle 50's. Partly sunny Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of after­noon thunderstorms. The high will be in the 70's. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

An exchange of ideas among liberal and conserva-Interested in teaching in Japan? Come talk with tive students and professors will take place at 7:30 p.m. Father Peter of the Good Shepherd Movement at the CSC today in Theodore's. The panel discussion will include today from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. maximum audience participation. 
Tuesday's CILA meeting will be attended by There will be an informational meeting for all University President Father Edward Malloy for an infor­those interested in trying out for next year's Irish Guard. mal chat about his involvement with CILA, particularly the It will be held Tuesday, April 24, on the second floor of time he spent in Mexico. Come to Mass in Sorin's Chapel the LaFortune Student Center in the Notre Dame room at 
at 11 p.m. and stay to talk afterward. 5 p.m. Any questions, call Craig at 283-4075. 
The Sandinista army turned over an eastern military base in El Ay­ote, Nicaragua to United Nations ob­servers Sunday, and the first contin­gent of U.N. troops rolled in!o Nicaragua to enforce Contra demobi­lization and disarmament. An accord signed Thursday by the Contras, the 

outgoing Sandinista . . government and representatives of _President-elect_ Vwleta Chamorro requires a cease-fire venfied by the U~I~ed !'la­tions in seven security zones set up for demobihzatwn. Chamorro takes office Wednesday, ending the decade-old 
rule of the leftist Sandinistas. 
Lava flowing from Kilauea Volcano swallowed two more homes Saturday, and an evacuation order was expanded in Kalapana, Hawaii, the city threatene~ by the long eruption. A 40-foot-wide finger of lava, whrc_h. ~e­stroyed three houses in the Kalapana Gardens subdivisiOn on Friday, set one house ablaze about 11:20 a.m. Saturday, said Lanny Nakano, a Civil Defense spokesman on Hawaii Island. Kilauea lava has destroyed eight homes in April, including five since Wednesday. So far, 87 homes have burned since the current eruption began in January 1983, said Butts. The volcano has caused more than $20 
million in damage. 

INDIANA 
In what local cardiologists believe to be the world's first-ever heart transplant between infant twins, Alison Page Whisman received a heart transplant from her brother Tyler four days after their birth on April 10. Page is the youngest and the tiniest newborn to undergo a heart transplant since the operation program be­gan at Riley Hospital and the Indiana University Medical Center in 1986. Tyler was borri one minute after Page but his well-formed 5.5-pound body was limp because he was brain dead, as­phyxiated in the womb just before his birth. 
More than 200 people. including Gov. Evan Bayh, held a candlelight vigil Sunday night in Elkhart to honor the memory of Lisa Bianco on her 32nd birthday. B,ianco was beaten to death March 4, 1989. A jury convicted her former hus­band, Alan Matheney, of murder and burglary on April 12. A judge is scheduled to decide May 4 if Matheney will receive the death penalty. Mildred Bianco, the victim's mother, lit the first candle at the 45-minute ceremony and the rest of the crowd lit their candles from her flame. 
WORLD 
NATIONAL 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings lor April 20, 1990 

335.12 • 2.97 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,695.95 -f15.99 
Precious Metals Gold -f $0.70 to $376.60 I oz. Silver{!r 3.0¢ to $5.108 I oz. 
Source: AP 

A bomb exploded during a charity dance in a town just north of San Salvador, killing one person and injur­ing 40 people, a Red Cross spokesman said Sunday. Fourteen of the injured in the explosion at a home in El Sitio late Saturday were taken to hospitals for treatment, the spokesman, Carlos Lopez Mendoza, said. Earlier Saturday, an economics professor was killed in the capi­tal when a bomb exploded in his car as he was leaving the University of El Salvador. 
Clayton Williams, the Texas Republican gubernato­rial candidate, disclosed that he paid prostitutes for sex a number of times in Mexico and his native West Texas, a newspaper reported Sunday. He said it has been at least 35 years since he visited a prostitute and considered it a rite of passage. Williams, who faces Democratic state Treasurer Ann Richards in the November gubernatorial general election and has campaigned as a law-and-order candidate, said the disclosure has no bearing on his lead­ership capabilities as a mature adult. Williams came un­der fire from women's groups and political opponents last month when he jokingly likened bad weather to rape, saying if it was inevitable to "just relax and enjoy it." 
ALMANAC 

On April23: 
e In 1789: President-elect Ge­orge Washington and his wife moved into the first executive mansion, the Franklin House, in New York. · 
e In 1969: Sirhan Sirhan was sentenced to death for the as­sassination of New York Sen . Robert Kennedy. The sentence was later reduced to life im­prisonment. e Five years ago: The Coca­Cola Co. announced it was changing the secret flavor for­mula for Coke, the world's best-selling soft-drink. Adverse public reaction forced the com­pany to resume selling the original version. 
_M_o_n_d_a~y~,A_p~r_il_2_3~,_19_9_o___________________________________T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r_______________________________________________ paQe~ 
-.;.;~~j ,f ,,. World goes green for Earthf'·'l 1 ., ..: · · Day; 200 million participate 

LONDON lAP) 

Environmentalists collected 
tons of garbage from Japanese 
beaches, sculpted a giant ther­
mometer from a French glacier 
to protest global warming and 
rallied on the world's streets 
and mountaintops Sunday to 
mark Earth Day. 
Organizers estimated that 200 million people in 136 coun­tries took part in events dedi­cated to saving the environ­ment. 
"If Earth Day does nothing else, it will ... give the clear message to politicians that mil­lions of people are aware of the problems facing the earth and what needs to be done about it," said Andrew Lees, of the British branch of Friends of the Earth. 
Students carried a globe on a stretcher, symbolizing a sick Earth, in a parade in Hong Kong's twin city of Kowloon. 
About 1,000 people marchnd, many dressed as trees or ani­mals and waving green ribbons and banners. 
In Chamonix, France, ice sculptors Christian Claude! and Francis Cuny carved a giant thermometer on the Mer de Glace glacier to protest global warming resulting from air pollution. · 
In Japan, about 35,000 people gathered on Yumenoshima, or Dream Island, an artificial island in Tokyo Bay made from landfill consisting mostly of garbage from Tokyo. A tempo­rary facility for recycling tin cans was set up to emphasize the problem of waste disposal on the island nation. 
In western Japan, volunteers gathered six tons of trash on a beach and set it ablaze, accord­ing to the public TV network NIIK. 

ND law student named as head of ND legal association 
By L. PETER VOB News Writer 
Pam Voirh, a Notre Dame law studt~nt. will serve as the Executive Dirnctor of the Notre Danw Legal Aid and Defender Association during the 1990­199 I acadmnic year. 
Tlw main Legal Aid office is staiTnd by law students, some of whom receive academic credit. Thn ol'lke is located in tho l.aw School. 
Thnrn arn five different divisions within Lngal Aid, each of which has also announced rww d i rt~dors for the next acadt~mic year. 
.Jesus Olivas, a second year law studPnt, will hi' tlw director of t111• Campus J.pgal SPrvii'Ps division. This division offers legal assistance to ND staff, stuc!Pnts and others. all of whom must meet minimum income guidelines. 
"We do some wills," Olivas said. "The bulk of our work is landlord/tenant." Voich added that in the past the division has done some divorce work for NO staff members. 
As Voich and Olivas discussed the work of Legal Aid, examples of their ongoing work were obvious. A law student emerged from an adjacent counseling room with a client 
and  the  two  conversed  in  
Spanish  for  a  few  moments  
before  the  dient  left,  

apparently satisfied. 
At ont~ point a student entered the office with a qw~stion about a lease. Olivas excused himsnlf to a counseling room so the student could explain the legal problem. 

lJPcoming Events 
THURSDAY, APRIL26 Lecture BISHOP THOMAS GUMBLETON "NOTRE DAME AND THE POST COLD 


WAR WORLD" 
12:00 noon -Room 121 Law School 
Everyone Welcome 
"Introduction to Peace Studies" (liPS 
320) still has a few openings for fall, 1990. This class is required for the "Concentration in Peace Studies" but is also open as an elective to all ND/SMC unde~raduates. Enrollment permission may be obtained at the Institute office in Room 135 of the Law School. 
Summer Session 1990 liPS course 
descriptions are available at the 
Institute office and in the Summer 
Session Bulletin of Information. 
INSTITUTE FOR 

INTERNATIONAL 


Jesus Olivas 

According to Voich, Campus Legal Serviens cannot dispense legal adviee over the phone. She also said that the division takes civil cases only, and cannot brrome involved in criminal casf'S. 
The civil cases Campus Legal Services accepts eannot be income producing or fee generating type cases. 
Olivas said that the cases they accept are a "big responsibility." "All cases are important," he added. 
Legal Aid also operates a legal clinic for the homeless, which will be directed by law students Jonathon Bergman and James Lewis next year. The clinic is located in the Center for the Homeless in downtown South Bend. 
The primary concern in advocacy for the the homeless is with assisting those without shelter to secure benefits, such as disability, veterans and unemployment insurance. 
Christine Ireland, a second year law student, will direct Legal Aid's Court Appointed Special Advocates program (CASA). 
Qtl@Jf;>f;>1J ~~[b IDDfJTII[}Ll®@JV ~aJ[K]~ ruaJ~[1§l]!JaJ 
·.·· Love. .· Dcld. Mom. 

Beth. 
Carmen and 


Allison 

'11 
I 



.. REGISTERED



B.'! 
NURSES 

\1 
Qualify for a $5000 bonus!* 
The Mr Force needs 
you. As an Air Force nurse 
officer, you can enjoy great ben­efits, including complete medical and dental care. Plus 30 days vaca­tion with pay per year and ongoing professional and personal oppor­tunities to advance. Serve your country while you serve your career. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COLLECT 317-848-5830 STATION TO STATION 
*See your recruiter for details 

CASA voluntners are community members who are specially trained to serve as advocates for children in abuse cases and occasional custody cases. Legal Aid students support these CASA volunteers. 
Legal Aid has a Michigan Misdemeanor Division which allows law students to represent clients in Michigan courts in misdemeanor cases arising in Cass County. Maureen (j'Heilly, a second ynar law student, participated in the program this year and will be its director next year. 
This program "works like a public defender" situation, O'Reilly said. According to her. typical cases students deal with arc Operating Under tlw Innuence cases, Assault and 
Battery,  and  Driving Without  
Insurance.  
Voich said  that Legal  Aid's  

Domestic Violence Division is the "Division that is expanding the most." She said that there are seven to eight r.alls and referrals per day in this area concerning domestic violence. 
There has been a phenomenal increase in calls and reports concerning domestic violence recently, said Voich. She said that reports have tripled lately, which she believes is due in part to the publicity surrounding the Alan Matheney trial. 
Matheney was recently convicted in South Bend of murdering his ex-wife Lisa Bianco. Bianco, who worked in a women's shelter, had suffered from Matheney's physical abuse in the past. 
Women are not sitting there and taking it anymore, said Voich, explaining her view on why reports have increased. 
The Domestic Violence Division will be directed by law students Sheila O'Sullivan and Scott Martinsen next year. 

Focus 
on 
America's 


Future 



Bendana 
continued from page 1 
"We (the Sandinistas) would 

like to believe that the electoral 
process was reason for enor­
mous satisfaction even though 
the results of that process may 
not have been," Bendana said. 
~Democracy has more to do 
with the rules of the game than 
with who wins or who loses." 
"And we take credit," he added, "for having established those democratic rules of the game for the first time in Nicaraguan history." 
If the cease-fire agreement reached between the contras­the armed anti-Sandinistan guerilla organization-and Chamorro last week is honored, then Nicaraguans will see the first peaceful transfer of gov­ernmental power in their 169­year history, Bendana said. 
As for the Sandinistas role 

during the next six years, Ben­
dana said, "we are going to be 
a belligerent opposition, but we 
also plan to be constructive and 
responsive." 
The Sandinistas intend to 

demand that the programs of 
UNO be implemented in those 
areas where it is geared to ser­
vice social interests, he added. 
Bendana stressed that 

although the Sandinistas lost 
the presidential election, they 
can't be written off. 
Forty percent of the vote went 

to the Sandinistas, whose pres­
idential candidate was the cur­
rent president, Daniel Ortega. 
Also, the Sandinistas will still 
be well represented in the Na­
tional Assemblies, as well as in 
several major municipal gov­
ernments. 
"We are the largest, single, 

most cohesive, disciplined, ef­
fective political force not only 
in Nicaragua, but in Central 
1£LI£{jJfl(J& SP;<tCIO'US 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1671 Riverside Drive @ 
Of'P!IIIIINIT'r 
·-­


STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be aND/SMC student. Only nat works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, paintings) with amaximum size of a·d·. 
The exhibit willbe shown attile lafoPtune StudentCenteP, Appilao-May 4. 
PIIICHASE PRIZES, STAmNG AT 1811, WIU BE AWARDm. 
AppllcaBons will be available Aprll19-28 In the Student Government omce, Student Activities omce, and the Lafortune Information Desk. 
Speclallllll*s 10 1111 M.-Aaol:tllb~ 1111 Solie MIISIIIII, 1111 1111 ADIIIIIel*r elm lor II* •ann.IIIIIIIIRIIISI!I'Ile awn. 
The Observer 

but was quick to point out that the U.S. had a large amount of influence on the elections. The 
U.S. government contributed to the UNO campaign fund, he said. 
Many of the Sandinistas' at­tempts to achieve peace and economic prosperity were thwarted by former U.S. presi­dent Ronald Reagan's adminis­tration, said Bendana. He said that "too many (30,000) Nicaraguans died in Mr. Rea­gan's war, just to prove his macho, anti-communist creden­tials." 
He had lighter comments for President Bush, saying "anything over Reagan is an improvement." He said Bush opened new peace processes. 
Bendana criticized the U.S. State Department for preparing to blast the last elections for being unfair, had the Sandin­istas won. Instead, it praised the electoral process, as the UNO won. 
Bendana said there is a need to remind people of the 1984 elections, which were held in similar fashion to this year's elections, complete with inter­national observers and fair procedures. 
He again criticized the U.S. government for calling the 1984 elections unfair, simply because the Sandinistas won. 
Bendana plans to teach at a Nicaraguan university, write, and "reflect critically over a unique experience and its impli­cations and successes" after the UNO takes control of the government Wednesday. 
We're Fighting For Your life. 

Monday, April 23, 1990 

ND and SMC students win summer language grants 
Special to The Observer 
The following five Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents have won this year's Culpeper Foundation Summer Grant in the Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures. 
•Melissa 
Falb, Notre Dame freshman, for German, will at­tend summer school in Salzburg, Austria preceding her year of studies abroad in Inns­bruck, Austria; 

•Timothy 
Frommer, Notre Dame senior, for Russian, will attend summer school at Bloomington, Indiana; 

•Marnie 
Johnson, Notre Dame freshman, for German, 



will attend summer school in Salzburg, Austria preceding her year of studies abroad in Inns­bruck, Austria; 
•Kevin 
Roach, Notre Dame junior, for Russian, will attend summer school at Leningrad; 

•Gisela 
Rust, Saint Mary's ju­nior, for German, will attend Goethe Institute summer ses­sion at Prien, southern Ger­many. 


These winners have been se­lected by a panel or faculty members of the Department. Each grant carries a stipend of $750 in support of tuition and living expenses of attending summer sessions for foreign lamwages improvement. 

Summer 





TORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL Nowl 683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


University of Notre Dame International Student Affairs Office 
and 

The japan-America Society of Indiana 
cordtally Invite you to 

JAPAN: 2000 
A VIdeo and panel presentation by The Japan-American Society of Indiana Forum 
7:00 p.m., Wednesday, April 25, t 990 
Doors open at 6:30 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, Snlte Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
Jackson H. BaDey, Ph.D. 
Director of the Institute for Education on Japan at Earlham College, Richmond, and a co-developer of the Japan: 2000 television series. Japan's government conferred on him the Order of the Sacred Treasure 
for his efforts to promote understanding between our countries. Barbara Ito, Ph.D. Director of East Asian Studies at the Rose-Hulman InstiMe of Technology. 
Jimmy W. Wheeler, Ph.D. 


Director of Economic Studies at the Hudson Institute. George M. WDson, Ph.D. 
Year

Director, East Asian Studies Center and professor of history and of East Asian Languages and Cultures at Indiana University. 
Of

Telephone Reservations: ISO 239-5243 
The 

Everyone Is invited to meet the panelists at a reception in the Family Oriental Court ofthe Snlte Museum immediately followl the presentation. ADWORKS 



Chair of ordination committee calls for brave stand by ND 
Annual award will commemorate late Notre Dame priest 
By PETER AMEND 
News writer 
John llouek, co-ehair of the committee on Notre Dame's position on the ordination of women, wants the University to take a brave stand in the effort to coerce the church to ordain women. 
llouck said that the committee was established in 1989 with a threefold purpose: "first. to express our solidarity with our women students, graduates, and eolleagues who ar11 being discriminated against by tlw ban on tlw ordination of 
Special to the Observer 
A special award memorializ­ing the late Father Williain Toohey will be given annually to a member of the Notre Dame community beginning in May 
IIJ<J I according to Father Hiehard Warner, counselor to NotrP Dame's pn~sidnnt and Dirnrtor of Campus Ministry. 
Toolwy dirertl'd tlw Offke of Campus Ministry from 11170 ur.l­til his death on Ortober 13. 1CJHO. A natiw of Hadne, Wis., 


"I've broadened my education and expanded my knowledge. Improved my skills. It's the perfect job experience to put on a resume or an application." 
KELLY~~:::ry
• 
©1990 Kelly ServiceI, Inc. The Kelly GirlePeople-The First and The Best"' EOE M/F/H/V Not an agency · never a fee 
• L______________________________________________________________
• 
women in the Catholic Church; second, to provide public forums in the university community to explore what Notre Dame and its sister Catholic institutions can do about the ban; and third, to support efforts within our de­liberating bodies to express Notre Dame's position on the continuation of the ban on the ordination of women." 
This week the committee has planned several activities including the following: 
•A liturgy of Vision will be held today at 12:15 p.m. by the benches at St. Mary's Lake. 
he was graduated from Notre Dame in 1952, served in the Marine Coprs for two years. en­tered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1955, and was or­dained to the priesthood in 1961. 
Well known for his dedication Lo the thenw of social justice in the Gospel and in Catholie doc­trine, Toohey's preaching and writing attracted wide and en­thusiastir audiences both on campus:.:.a_n,;...d_c_>f_f. 
• 

''I'M A COLLEGE STUDENT. AND 
WORKING FOR 
KELLY HAS HELPED ME UNDERSTAND THE BUSINESS 
WORLD.'' 
Petitions supporting the ordination of women will be available at the liturgy. 
•Tuesday 
at 7::{0 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, two local bishops will discuss their views on the issue. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium a panel will discuss the issue. 

•Petitions 
will be available for signing today through Wednesday at the Hesburgh Library, Fieldhouse Mall, O'Shaughnessy Hall, and the dining halls. A film will also be shown in Montgomery Theater 


In addition to his work as di­rector of Campus Ministry, he published a cassette series enti­tied "Communication the Gospel Today" and several books, in-eluding "Fully Alive," "Rebuilding Faith: Values that Endure," and "Free At Last: The Christian Odyssey." 
The William A. Toohey, C.S.C. Award will be conferred eaeh year on a member of the Notre Dame community whose preaching, writing or example e_m....:p_h_a_s_iz_e_s_th_e_s_o_c_ia_l_di_·m_en_­
today through Wednesday. ac­eording to a group publication. 
Houck stated that a potential law school student told me how hurt she was that members of her sex could not be ordained. How painful it was for her to think tha:t no one at Notre Dame, except for a couple of women faculty, was concerned about this injustice. To my reeollection, Notre Dame has always gone to bat for its graduates when there was a diseriminatory ban. I eouldn't defend Notre Dame's reticence in this matter. It eertainly is 
sion of the Gospel in a remark­able way. 
A five-person ad hoc nomina­tion committee for the award will be appointed each year by the direetor ofeampus ministry to prepare a slate of three nominees by March 15. 
The committee will indude the rector of Sacred Heart Church, one staff member from the campus ministry oflice, one staff member from the Center for Social Coneerns, one mem­ber of the University's faculty 
• 
• 

questionable that nearly 40 pereent of our graduates ean't hold an offiee in' an organization we are affiliated with, and we do not formally say a word." 
Houck said the topic of ordaining women will be discussed at the Board of Trustees meetings in May and October. "Notre Dame will make a decision by the end of this year," said Houck. "By the year 2000 there will be the ordination of women and I want my University to start now." 
and one student. 
The final selection will be made by a standing committee eomposed of the vice president for student affairs, the director of campus ministry, and the di­rector of the Center for Soeial Concerns. The man or woman selected for the award will re­ceive a stipend of $1000. 
The Toohey Award will become the sixth special annual award given by the University's administration to Notre Dame faculty and staff members. 
Support 

March of Dimes 
-BIOIH D!FECTI> FOUNDAIION-

Hours: Mon.-Fri. e:00-5:30 Sol. e:00-3:00 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
2112 South eend Avenue South Dend, IN 46637 

I.Buy 4* sessions at the regula71I price and get 4 FREE. Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 L...9et 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~ 
INDIANmDGE PLAZA -HOURS 





Nine members of AFROTC group voted to headquarters 
Special to the Observer 
Over the Easter Holiday, nine members of Air Force ROTC's Arnold Air Society (AAS) at Notre Dame were voted in as the Society's 1990-91 National Headquarters Staff. 
Along with 11 other members from Notre Dame's Benjamin 
D. Foulois Squadron, these nine presented their headquarters bid at the AAS/ Angel Flight National Conclave (NatCon) in Atlanta, Ga., over the weekend. Students from Georgia Techno­logical University also com­peted for the prestigious na­tional headquarters. 
Both schools gave 20-minute presentations to the NatCon assembly of over 1200 students from around the nation, as well as a number of active and re­tired general officers of the 
U.S. Air Force. On Monday, April 16, the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron was voted in as the next National Headquar­ters by a margin on 111-18. 
The staff is led by the new National Commander, AAS/Brig Gen C.G. Wander, making him the highest ranking cadet in the nation. The other staff members include AAS/Col Army Patrin and AAS/Lt Cols Victor Fehrenbach, Dawn Wolfe, Kathy Burke, Michelle Mackey, Steve Marques, Jim Peredo, and Eric Werner. 

Arnold Air Society is a pro­fessional honorary service or­ganization within AFROTC and 
_performs numerous service projects for a large variety of local and nationwide organiza­tions. Angel Flight is a compan­ion organization composed primarily of civilian students. 
! ­

Though both organizations conduct many local service pro­jects, AAS has an ongoing na­tional project of promoting awareness of the POW/MIA is­sue. Also, every other year, the two organizations vote on a new service issue to emphasize for two years. 
This past weekend, the con­clave voted to stress the issue of Environmental Awareness and Resource Conservation through local service projects. 
AAS is composed of 153 squadrons (chapters) across the country which are grouped into 19 Areas. The current membership is over 5,200 Academy and ROTC cadets (accounting for 25 percent of all Air Force cadets.) 
This past year, AAS as a a whole participated in 1,681 campus and community service projects. At Notre· Dame, the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron does work with Logan Center, Habitat for 'Humanity, and Christmas in April among others. 

The Society is run by students with the hel'p of a number of permanent advisors. A new National Headquarters is voted on every year, and different squadrons run for the position depending on their abilities and desire to accept the time con­suming challenge. 
The duties of the new Na­tional Headquarters will be to oversee all activities and busi­ness of the Society as well as conduct an inspection tour of the 19 Area Headquarters lo­cated throughout the United States. 

Bush grateful for release of hostage but demands more 
ISLAMORADA, Fla. (AP) ­President Bush welcomed the release of an American hostage Sunday, but declared that "i don't have forgiveness in my heart as long as one American is held against his will." 
Bush emphasized that the re­lease of Robert Polhill was not enough to warrant a goodwill gesture from him -other than words of thanks -toward the kidnappers or the countries they follow. 
''I'm not trying to think up any gesture," Bush said in re­sponse to a question. "I want all of those hostages out. We're not going to trade." 

Hostage 
continued from page 1 
through Beirut, sitting in the 
back of a car and puffing heav­
ily on a cigarette. He appeared 
drawn after his long ordeal and 
smiled wanly several times. 
At his news conference, 

Polhill, gaunt and pale, said he 
was too tired to answer any 
questions about seven other 
American hostages or his cap­
tivity by the pro-Iranian Islamic 
Jihad for the Liberation of 
Palestine since Jan. 24, 1987. 
Polhill, a professor of busi­

ness studies and accounting at 
Beirut University College, joked 
to reporters: 'Thirty-nine 
months is a long time to have 
to stand here." 
Standing beside Polhill, 

Djerejian said: "We will keep 
communication lines open to all 
parties that have influence with 
the hostage takers. We are go­
ing to continue doing everything 
we can, we are going to 
continue talking, to continue 
trying." 
Also speaking at the news 
conference, Syria's foreign 
minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, 
said he hoped Polhill's release 
will lead to other hostage re­
leases. · 
In an editorial in Monday's editions, the Tehran Times newspaper said another hostage should be freed to test 'President Bush's claim that 'goodwill begets goodwill."' 
"This they shguld do swiftly in order to leave the ball in the other party's court to demon­strate its goodwill, if it has any," said the English-language newspaper, which often reflects Rafsanjani's views. 
Bush, on a fishing trip in Florida, said all American hostages must be free before the United States will recipro­cate with a goodwill gesture. 
"I don't trade for hostages," he said. 
-Polhill's mother, Ruth Polhill of Fishkill, N.Y., was overjoyed at news of the release and the prospect of seeing her son. 
Bush learned of Polhill's re­phone with Polhill, his wife and lease while on a daylong fishing his mother, and that they all expedition in the Florida Keys. noted that other Americans are lie was kept updated by ship­still hostage. tc :-;hore communications with "This is a mission uncom­the White House situation pleted," Bush said. room. Polhill was to be flown to a 
As Polhill relished his first U.S. military medical facility in day of freedom in 39 months, Wiesbaden, West Germany for seven· other Americans re­a physical examination. A State mained in the captivity of ter­Department "hostage recovery" 
rorists in Lebanon. team was dispatched to aid 
"I can't talk forgiveness," Polhill's return to freedom and Bush said. "I don't have for­U.S. officials offered giveness in my heart as long as transportation to West one American is held against Germany for Polhill's family. his will and as long as one In a written statement, Bush family has a broken heart." expressed thanks to Iran and 
He said he talked by tele-Syria for efforts leading to 
MANUFACIURERS HANOVER 
Some straight 'A' options from EFG 
Guaranteed and non-guaranteed loans. Lines of credit. Flexible budget plans. Given the high cost of higher education, it's essential to have more than one financing option to cover your tuition costs. That's why The Educational Financing Group of Manufacturers Hanover offers a straight 'A' lineup of options designed to help you achieve your academic financial objectives. 
It's as easy as EFG: No one else offers a more comprehensive range of options. Because no one else understands your needs better than the Educational Financing Group. Call us at 1-800-MHT-GRAD and go to the 
head of the class. 
Polhill's freedom. Iran, particu­larly, has been a U.S. adversary for more than a decade, and Syria has been denounced as a sponsor of terrorism. 
However, Bush omitted Iran from his words of appreciation in a later face-to-face meeting with reporters. 
"I have goodwill toward Syria for playing an active role in this releasn," he said. 
As ror Iran, he said, he was "stopping a little short." 
"I don't want to give credit when I don't know the facts," he said. 
From the day he became president, Bush has been 

Educational Financing Group 
Achievement 
prom1smg that "goodwill begets goodwill" an apparent invitation to the kidnappers as well as Syria and Iran to free the Americans. 
Yet on Sunday, Bush said he was not making any goodwill gesture merely because one hostage, Polhill, was freed. 
"I don't go ante up one step and another," Bush said. "Ire­joice at this release.... And I will thank those who facilitated the release and that's exactly the way it's going to stay." 
tie said nothing short of the. release of all hostages would satisfy him. 


Monday, April 23, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Nicaraguan official credits Sandinistas for democracy 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
A Niearaguan government of­fkial posed what he called the "fundamental qunstion" sur­rounding the presidential elec­tions held in February: Why hold an election under condi­tions that entail a risk of loss for the Sandinistas'! 
"We wanted peaee," answered Alejandro Bendana. the secre­tary general for the Nicaraguan fornign ministry, in a lecture at Notre Dame Fri­day. 
"We wanted to aehiev11 an end to the war, but not by winning," he said. "We wanted no more lost lives." 
Bendana will stnp down from his government post when the United National Opposition (UNO) coalition headed by President-elect Violeta Chamorro takes over the gov­ernment Wednesday. 
Bendana stated that the San­dinistan government decided to hold democratie elections in the hopn of putting an end to the war in Nicaragua and to eco­nomic instability. 
lie noted that the odds against the Sandinistas before _the election were high. They had been in control of the Nicaraguan government since 1979 revolution, and had to face such U.S. measures as an economic blockade and support of the anti-Sandinistan contras. The results of these measures have been a poor economy and a prolonged civil war. 
The Sandinistan government provided "extraordinary facili­ties" for the campaigning of the opposition parties, and also al­lowed foreign finance of cam­paigning, a measure which the 
U.S. exploited by contributing to the UNO campaign fund. 
The Sandinistas even moved the election date up to February 25 of this year. Elections had originally been scheduled for later in the year. 
The Sandinistas invited about 2,400 international observers to be present throughout the campaign and the elections, thus ensuring that the electoral procedures would be fair. 
In return for such an exem­plary electoral process, the Sandinistas hoped that the con­tras would demobilize, said Bendana. Also, they hoped that the electoral process would re­fute two common U.S. pre­sumptions: 

•That 
the Sandinistas would not hold free elections; 

•That 
even if the election were free, the Sandinistas would not accept the results in the event of a UNO victory, be­cause of their "totalitarian im­age." 


The Sandinistas wanted to prove that they could hold a free election, Bendana said. In 1984, the Sandinistas won a free election, but the U.S. criti­cized it for being unfair. 
The Sandinistas assumed that if there were free elections, then the least the U.S. could do would be to end the economic blockade and to promote the demobilization of the contras, he said, regardless of who won the elections. 
Bendana criticized the U.S. for having an enormous influ­ence on the results of the elec­tions. He cited the following in­cidents: 
•In November, President Bush met with Chamorro and told her that if she won the election, the U.S. would lift the economic blockade of Nicaragua. This sent a message to the Nicaraguan voters that unless they elected UNO, they would face more economic instability. 
•The U.S. invaded Panama in December of 1989. The mes­sage to Nicaraguan voters: "If you support a government that we {the U.S.) don't like, then this is what will happen to you," said Bendana. 
These incidents caused Nicaraguan voters to support the UNO coalition. 
Bendana compared the U.S. influence on the Nicaraguan elections to the forced signing of legal contract. If someone was forced, for example, at gunpoint to sign a contract, then it will not hold up in a court of law, said Bendana. 
Similarly, the U.S. used intim­idation to get the result it wanted in the Nicaraguan elec­tions, he said. 
"What if an entire nation has a knife to its throat?" asked Bendana. "Is that election fair?" 
However. said Bendana, the Sandinistas did not contest the results of the election. Instead, they began preparations for a transition of power. 
The Sandinistas have always believed in a multi-party sys-tern, Bendana said, but no one ever believed them. He credited his own party for the unprece­dented event of a popular, revo­lutionary government turning 
from a dorm or off-campus apartment, you'll find Hertz Penske's "do-it-yourself" move is quick, easy and very




MOVI UP 

affordable. 
Get together with a couple of friends or go it alone. Hertz Penske will help you "keep it all together" with everything from packaging materials and accessories to a moving guide that helps you plan every step. Our

MOVI OUTI 

trucks are some of the newest on the road and are available with all the good stuff ... automatic trans­mission. air conditioning, radio, easy load ramp and much more. 
For an estimate of what your move will cost, or to make a reservation, call today. And be sure to mention your college to receive your "return discount," a 10% discount for your return to school. .. or your next move. 
1·80 0 ·J,J,J,·O.t77 
Hertz 
PENSKE 
TruckRental 
At the end of the semester. the move is on ... to home. to a new apartment or a new job. Whether you're moving 
over office to a right-wing, conservative group. 
Bendana hopes that the UNO government will "be aware of the system which allowed them to take power." 
"There is no going back to 
the pre-1979 death squad rule," 
Bendana said. 
lie said that, because of the 
efforts of the Sandinistas. there 
will be no more social and po­
litical uprooting of the state, as 
long as the U\'JO government 
sustains the political stability. 
There has been a change in 
government. but no change in 
the system of the state. 
Bendana discussed the reac­
tions of some Nicaraguans to 
the results of the elections. 
There was an actual danger 
of civil war in the days after the 
election, Bendana noted, be­
cause many pro-Sandinistan 
farmers were afraid that the 
contras would take over the 
present Sandinistan army. 
Bendana suggested that many 
voters cast their votes for the 
UNO coalition because they ex­
pected the Sandinistas to win 
by a large margin, and they 
wanted to give the UNO some 
votes. 
Those who voted in this man­
ner were sorry they did so when 
they saw the results of the 
election, said Bendana. 
Sandinistan officials were 
forced to go out into the coun­
tryside and convince the farm­
ers that the new UNO govern­
ment was not a revolution, but 
rather a legitimate government 
that came out of a democratic 
framework. 
The Sandinistas' status as a legal opposition will be some­thing new to the Sandinistas, Bendana said. Before their rev­olution in 1979, they were an outlawed opposition force. 
The Sandinistas will support Chamorro's efforts to benefit the popular interest, said Ben­dana, and will work within the law when it comes to opposing the new government. 
Bendana called for an imple­mentation of a U.S. "yankeestroika" in dealing with countries in Central America. lie said that U.S. -supported armies in Central America are still killing people. He ques­tioned whether the U.S. is ca­pable of breaking with the his­torical pattern of behavior of Latin American intervention. 
It is hypocritical of U.S. politicians to complain about the Soviet economic blockade of Lithuania, but to turn around and support blockades of gov­ernments they don't like and enact other measures which undermine the governments of Central American countries, Bendana said. 
Bendana drew applause when he emphatically stated that the 
U.S. had no right to go invade Panama, and install a govern­ment more to its liking. 

Focus 
on 

America's 

Future 

Help Prevent Birth Detects 
"'"' Support the 

~ ~!~D~9.tQ.~cr-~ 





Business 
Monday, April 23, 1990
page 8 

Cellar to be converted to video store in hopes of gaining revenue 
BY PATRICK NINNEMAN Business Writer 
The Student Business Board has decided to change the Cellar record store into a video store, with the hopes of directing more revenue to the estab­lishment. 
Steve Perkins, the student manager for the Cellar, stated that "something needed to be. done to bring more money into the store. We had over $2,000 in losses as of March this year." 
· Steve Lawrence, the previous manager of the Cellar, sug­gested the video store idea at the last Student Business Board meeting. The Board grabbed onto the idea and told Perkins to work on the video project for the next school year. Perkins said. "The record store in its present format just wasn't working. We were trying to provide an alternative to the bookstore's selection, but not enough of the campus was in­terested in the progressive se­lection of the Cellar." 
He mentioned that the size of the store made for a very lim­ited inventory. Other stores such as Tracks could sell for less than the Cellar because of their larger inventory, while providing a comparable selec­tion. 
Perkins said he considered opening a joint record/video store, but then decided only one or the other could be sold in a store the size of the Cellar. Still, he hopes that elsewhere on the campus a progressive record store can be opened for the students. 
"After two years of working here, l feel partial to the record store. I hate to see it go," he said. 
Perkins is working on opening the video store as part of a franchise, but added "anything we are planning now is tenta­tive. We do want to open with some sort of franchise, which would have some immediate benefits." 
Some of the benefits he noted include easy start-up opera­tions, a ready video catalogue from which to choose what videos to carry, and an estab­lished distribution system. 

He noted that the Student Af­fairs Committee will oversee the selection of videos at the store. The details of the supervision are still very hazy, but Perkins does not expect excessive cen­sorship. 
"Everyone knows we can't run X (-rated) videos. We want to be a typical family video store with G, PG, and R movies. As long as we stay in that range, we shouldn't have any trouble." 
The present video vending machine will be removed from LaFortune when the Cellar starts up its own operations. 
As for the record store, Perkins does not expect a re­opening in the near future. He is continuing to work with the administration to find a differ­ent, more suitable location for a store. "The record store can work, but a better location with more room needs to be found," he said. 
Officials urge Japanese to import more U.S.. auto parts 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­
Bush administration officials 
said Friday they would prod 
Japan to import more U.S. 
automotive parts, but re­
fused to say whether retalia­
tory action would be taken. 
Japanese automakers have shown no serious commit­ment to increasing pur­chases of U.S. parts, despite recent announcements of changes in their procure­ment system, said Mary Toman, deputy assistant commerce secretary. 
Although the U.S. motor vehicle trade deficit with Japan has narrowed slightly, the parts deficit continues to grow and hit $10.5 billion in 1989, she said. 
"Until there are significant increases in sales, we will not be convinced that Japan truly has opened its markets to the world," Toman told the Senate subcommittee on innovation, technology and productivity. 
Richard Roberts, whose Mount Clemens, Mich., com­.pany manufactures molds for plastic auto parts, said his efforts to break into foreign markets had been rebuffed. 
"This is most discouraging to a company that wants to grow and have the same op­portunity their companies receive here in the United States," Roberts said. 
Under a 1988 law , the administration can restrict imports from countries that engage in unfair trading practices. The next round of import restrictions is scheduled to be announced by the end of the month. 
Toman and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Don Phillips declined to say whether Japanese auto parts would be on the list. 
Japanese and U.S. negotia­tors agreed on a plan April 5 to reduce trade friction by making broad reforms in both countries' economies. President Bush has praised Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu for promising vigorous efforts to open his nation's markets. 



Real estate problems are spreading, analysis shows 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Real estate problems are spreading from the Southwest and North­east, threatening metropolitan markets across the nation, ac­cording to a new statistical analysis by banking regulators. 
Banks in regions already be­set with falling or flat real es­tate prices have responded by 
Milken to plead guilty in fraud case 
NEW YORK (AP) -Former junk bond financier Michael Milken has agreed to plead guilty to six felonies and pay $600 million in penalties to settle the largest securities fraud case in history. 
The plea bargain disclosed Friday by sources is a stunning reversal for Milken and caps negotiations between the gov­ernment and attorneys for the ex-head of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s high-yield bond department. 
Milken and Drexel were im­plicated by speculator Ivan Boesky, who cooperated with the government in settling charges that he ran an insider trading network. Boesky' s dis­closures implicated major fi­nancial figures and shocked Wall Street in the 1980s. 
Milken is expected to enter the guilty plea to the felony counts and agree to pay fines and restitution next week in 
U.S. District Court in Manhat­tan, said individuals close to the case, who asked not to be named. 
Volunteer. 
t 
~American Heart ~Association 

N89190-15A. (21Ae" w. X 1" d.) 
tightening their lending policies. An analysis by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. shows that lenders elsewhere also may have reason for concern. 
The FDIC, which insures bank and savings and loan deposits up to $100,000, has fashioned what it hopes will be an early warning system that identifies soft real estate markets before they turn sour. 

A preliminary version re­leased last week examined commercial real estate in 40 metropolitan areas. Some well­known sore spots in the South­west ranked high on the list. Phoenix, Ariz.; was first, Austin, Texas, was sixth and 
n conjunction with National Volunters ~ week, April22-28, the Legal Services 


Program of Northern Indiana wishes to recognize and thank all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who have so generously and unselfishly volunteered their time to our agency 
over the past year. Knight Andersen Kathleen Hwang Scott Baker Matthew Johnson Carolyn Broering Martha Judge Wendy Dillon Barbara Martin Grovanni DiCenso Ann Marie Piscione Becky Fisher Sean Rohen Gary Francesconi Kathryn Snell Colleen Graham David Steigerwald Janet Herold Peter Tarsney Elizabeth Holmes Jennifer Trucano 
Oklahoma City was seventh. 
But many of the riskiest mar­kets were surprises. Nashville, Tenn., was second, followed by Anaheim, Calif., Atlanta and Philadelphia. Rounding out the top 10 were San Jose, Calif., Detroit, and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
The FDIC ranked the markets on three factors: increase in new office construction started, growth in office jobs and change in office vacancy rates. 
Markets with the slowest job growth, the biggest increase in construction and the steepest increase in vacancies are con­sidered the most vulnerable to a downturn. 

• .: . . . 
-•------•-•• 
.1111.111111 


COLLEG~, 
GRADUATE 
FINANCE 
PLAN 
Jordan's Auto Mall 

YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 609 E. Jefferson 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 
Do you find yourself sittin' around listening to MUSIC or watching MOVIES a lot? YEAH. Well you might as well get paid to do it! 

is now ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for the '90-'91 school year. Pick one up in the store today but remember, you gotta be work study: The deadline is Tuesday, May 1st 
LaFortune VISA 12-8 Mastercard




JUST BUY CO's 
Viewpoint
Monday, April 23, 1990 page 9 
--Ihe Obset:Ver _ 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Editor.......................Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .........Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ...............Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor .....................Greg GuHey Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor.................Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ....Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .........................Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........Corinne Pavlis Controller.......................Chris Anderson 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ol either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ot the majority of the Edltor·in·Chief, Manag1ng Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ed1tor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the v1ews of the authors. Column space is available to ali members ot the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

Due credit for Chinese metaphor goes unplaced 
/Jear Hditor: are completely different from 
This is a lntter I'm sorry to one another. You'll bP able to have to write, since it's done in pronounce anything..." rnsponse to a moving plea for YANG: (After the young ethnic and racial understand­Siong asks, "Why did she do ing. I refer to Siong Yang's that to me, Ma?") "So that you "Heflections of Minorities" in would never be tongue tied. So the April 10 Observer. that your tongue would be able Unfortunately, that essay gains to move in any language and much of its eloquence, and its you could pronounce anything central metaphor, from Maxine and would never have trouble Hong Kingston's memoir The learning..." Woman Warrior, first pub­lished some fifteen years ago. There are other borrowings I have before me the Vintage as well in Yang's article, as paperback reprint of that striking as those I've noted. rnmnoir. Let me cite just two of The case for a charge of pla­several strikingly parallel pas­giarism would be easy to make. sages, first Kingston's version But I'd rather try to learn why 
(p. 1<JO, Vintage edition), thfm Yang came to represent his Yang's. case through Maxine Hong Kingston's unacknowledged KINGSTON: "Maybe that's words and metaphors. Dozens, why my mother cut my tongue. if not hundreds, of persons on She pushed my tongue up and these two campuses have read sliced the frenum. Or maybe The Woman Warrior and will she snipped it with a pair of have recognized the episode nail scissors. I don't remember and the phrases. I think we'd her doing it, only telling me all like to see some explanation about it..." for the usurpation, as well as a 
YANG: "Maybe that was why full acknowledgement of the the midwife eut my tongue. She woman to whom the words and pushed my tongue up with a the striking image rightfully pair of scissors and sliced the belong. frenum. I don't remember her Few would take exception to doing it, only my mother talking the ideas in Siong Yang's arti­about it..." cle. The sentiments are so 
laudable that one can only be 

KINGSTON: (After Maxine very disappointed that they be asks, "Why did you do that to put forward in such a dubious me, Mother?") "I eut it so that fashion. you would not be tongue-tied. Your tongue would be able to Linnea B. Vacca move in any language. You'll Asst. Professor of English bn able to speak languages that Apri/14, 1990 
Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 
NIC/370
MRS. 
se& YOU 

RXAT£3t,i..t~ 
AGAIN,

1'3 THAT 
JOAN,'­
YOU~ /JtiJRI
\ 


r--------..., 
r ' 
I WnL.SIR,lNrnE \ I ill'lG RUN IT WAS Jl!.L I I 'v\tfflH IT rffiTH~ I OPR/RfUNITY 10 ~ I
I 

AN\NWF Yi?JR I l I~SI(jf\TMDVI~IO!'{.. j



,_{[_____,. 
LETTERS 


Dear Editor: best, but I must have closely happened, and although not 
With reference to Professor followed her words describing unique to me, were described Vacca's letter dated April 14, the experience. From as far with sentiments and images 1990, I would like to explain back as I can remember, that that I truly believe to be mine. the similarities between my ar­conversation has always been Any similarities to Kingston's ticle and Maxine Hong in my diary. book were not intended. Kingston's The Woman War­I can only surmise at the My article was written over a rior. other similarities Vacca noted. period of 3 weeks with the ad­
My article was written pri­Kingston's book is titled vice and guidance of many marily from a diary that I had "Woman Warrior," and I make friends. It materialized after kept. In it, I gave accounts of the assertion that my name hours of soul searching and important events in my life. I means warrior in Chinese. My back tracking. incorporated many things in my name truly does mean warrior; Now that I am aware of the writings, from a thoughtful line it is derived from the Chinese similar incident in my article uttered by a friend to an characters 'Ying Siong.' I was and in Kingston's book, I fully arresting phrase on a billboard. named after a close relative aeknowledge and credit her for The diary was never intended that had passed away. There is her account of her experience: for anyone else's eyes but my mention of foot binding and Along the same lines, I should own, so it had never occurred slave girls in my article, as in also credit the many other peo­to me to identify my sources. Kingston's book, but that is a ple who have helped shape my 
I read Kingston's book about fact well known to many thinking process and writings ten years ago. I even had a Chinese people. Lastly. through their works and chance to meet her in person. Kingston's mother was born in words. Thinking back, I was struck by the Chinese almanac's Dragon I'm glad this was pointed out the similarities of our tongue Year. My mother was also to me. It would certainly be un­cutting experience. I did ques­born in the Dragon Year, which fair for me to receive credit for tion my mother about it and the comes around every 12 years. efforts of others. reply was not dissimilar from This fact can be verified from that in The Woman Warrior. my records. Siang Yang My recollection of writing that The experiences that I related Fisher Hall entry in my diary is fuzzy at of my growing up years really April 16, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NOTSO 6<X.v. Ht'SBC&N 

I'MIER&
A5KIN'70 563 I ... I ... 

'We are too strong to be so
ANf7'/..,IA/HifT
7H&IlOCA /A/ANT YOU
15 IT? 
weak; we are too wise to be so
tor... 708001< A&I<OSMITH 
foolish; we are too rich to be so
\ 
fOR MY 
poor.'
RJN~. 

Martin Luther King, Jr. 
-~-~~------------~~-~-----~--~--------,_---~-·------­
r____..~----­





COLLEEN CRONIN 
accent editor 

Notre Dame can say it finally had a weekend of nice weather, and it couldn't have come at a better time. The past weekend was one of the most action­packed this campus has seen in a long time. This was college ­life. 
Under perfectly blue skies and near 70-degree weather Saturday, the fourth annual Fisher Regatta was another success. The Fisher boat took the trophy, but it was a debat­·able win. Cavanaugh and Fisher were involved in some under­handed sailing and the judges had to make a last-minute judgem1mt call for the winner. This little ineident will surnly resurface and heat up next year's Hegatta. 
The afternoon did not end with the Hegatta--Holy Cross's last blowout of the year imme­diately followed. Hogstock lived up to its name: there was lots of good music, lots of peo­ple, and there were hogs. The special appearance by members of the Generics turned into a performance once they realized their drummer did indeed show up. Their small set of dance tunes broke up the classic rock mode for a while, and then too Boathouse Blues and St. Paul cannot 


artyrs took the stag!~ {)r tlw llogstock n. 'Cross cNtainly wnnt , hang. llopnf'ully this bnconH' annual. ~~vnn 
~ly Cross will bn 
,nl. mrd 's IIall finishnd up r.nd with thn Charity 
unday aftnrnoon. 
with downs. a dunk­liv•~ tmtnrtainmnnt. notlwr day of' good 
. tlw Carnival drnw :rowd whieh lingnred ~rly H p.m. ' st wnnknnd of An 
us eollegn. It is really hat nvery wenkcnd 
~ 
tc like this. 

______________,----------------------------------~~------~---·--------~----~~-­
Monday, April 23, 1990
page 12 The Observer 
Elkington wins Greensboro Open 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) ­Steve Elkington came from seven shots off the pace Sunday with a 31 on the back nine for a 6-under-par 66, then watched his challengers fade away to win the Greater Greensboro Open, his first win in three years on the PGA Tour. 
Elkington, an Australian who 
hasn't missed the cut in his 11 
starts this year, started the day 
seven shots behind third-round 
leader Mike Reid. It marked the 
second time this year that a 
golfer came from seven shots 
back to win. The other was 
Elkington's countrymate, Greg 
Norman, who won the Dora! 
Open in a playoff. 

"A long way back in the tour­nament, I was 4-over-par on my first nine holes and I made a long way back from there," he said. 
Elkington finished with a 72­hole total of 282 to earn $225,000 from the $1.25 mil­lion purse, raising his winnings in 1990 to nearly $350,000. 
After three days in which golfers were tested by gusty winds and high rough which kept their play conservative, the winds subsided and the scores came down. 
"The weather was better to­day -no wind," Elkington said. "Today, you felt like you had a little more confidence in pulling the club out because there's no wind." 
Elkington, an early finisher, finished his round tied with Jeff Sluman at 6-under. But the possibility of a playoff disap­peared when Sluman bogeyed 15 and 17 and finished with a 71 for 284. He was tied with Reid, who faded with three bo­geys on the back nine for a 75. 
Fred Couples was within two shots with two holes to play, but his bogey at the par-3 17th hole ended his hopes. He fin­ished with a 73 and was at 285 along with Mike Hulbert, who had a 69, and Paul Azinger, who shot a roller-coaster 6 7. 
This space contributeqbv the ptbhsher 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
""Support the 


'li:' ~~¥!JEC~t~~a'~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must bf' 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.



Classifieds 

NOTICES  RESPONSIBLE STUDENT LOOKING TO HOUSESIT THIS SUMMER. NON-SMOKER, NON­ 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED,  WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK  BASS PLAYER and LEAD SINGER  Dick Holliday and the Bamboo Gang coming May 2 to SMC!  
EXPERT TYPINl::i $3/PG 291-3829 TYPING term papers/reports/letter/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­ DRINKER. CALL KATHY 284­4245. CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For information Call (615)779-5507 Ext. R-200  WILL RENT TO GROUP OR INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. CAMPUS. 272-0615.  FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. Need 1 ticket for graduation. Price negotiable. Please call Mary-Frances x2909  Needed for established campus band-mostly classic rock­experience and equipment required-to begin playing Fall '90 call Rich x1475 Pete x1429  Hey Nerd, HAPPY 20th! You're passed your prime, and you're stuck with me! But, you know you're the only "guy" for me!  
5134 Cathy. UPS ON CAMPUS THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 239-6174 -LAFORTUNE WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! $100 FREE INSURANCE Discounts Available WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) 212-864-2000. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH USI MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245 ------------------------------------­LOST/FOUND Lost: silver framed glasses in black case, at Cartier field or vicinity. Reward. Call Mike at x2082. LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH WITH BLACK STRAP SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1  Earn $300 to $500 per week reading books at home. Call615­473-7440 Ext. B340 ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. $5,000+/month! Over 8,000 openings. Free transportation! Room & Board I No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed. ATIENTION: Excellent Income for Home Assembly Work. Info. Call 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868. *MAKE EVERY DAY* *EARTH DAY* SUMMER CAMPAIGNS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500-$3500 Help pass the Clean Air Act, tighten pesticide controls & promote omprehensive recycling Available in 18 states & D.C. Call Kate toll-free: 1-800-75-EARTH FOR RENT  3-4 bedroom house with 2 full baths, washer/dryer & garage. Located safely across the street from campus. Ph. 234-7650 AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­9364. TURTLE CREEK SUBLET TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR THE SUMMER CALL KEVIN,MIKE,OR JEFF X1644 SUMMER SUBLET Furnished Turtle Creek Apt Upstairs, 2bdrm 277-9470 Tom or Dave STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 2-BDR. APT. AVAILABLE FOR SUBLEASING. CALL NOW!!! 284­4070. SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 LEAVE MESSAGE. FOR SALE SPRING BREAK-DAYTONA 1990 A Two Hour Video. See What You Saw or See What You Missed. $17.95 plus $2.00 handling and shipping. 1-800-633-1639. 1989 DODGE OMNI LIKE NEW CONDITION LOW MILEAGE 5SPEED AM FM CASSETIE 4600.00 CALL 2333458  HeyI B I L L Y J 0 E L fans: Would you like two tickets to his APRIL 24 CONCERT IN THE ROSEMONT HORIZON? If so, call Phil at #1051 or Molly at #2669 or #2648 for more ticket information BEST OFFER/ACT FAST Help! My little old Italian Grandma is coming for graduation! I need an extra ticket or I'll be out of the will! I will pay much bucks. Call X4238 and leave a message. Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for.them. :J~::~:.~!I.~reg at 3114 'I NEED GRAD TIX' My grandmother from DC would kill or die to see me graduate . I will pay BIG $$$ for 2 grad tix call BRAD @ 271-0758 $$$ If you are selling GRAD TIX, call me first. MONEY NO OBJECT!!! Harry x2263 PERSONALS START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999 PHISH IS COMINGII WED. APRIL 25  TIM -THE BEST PRESENT YOU COULD HOPE FOR · RICH IS GONE! St. Edward's Hall Forum Coach Lou Holtz Speaks On: "Here's How I See the Future of Football at Notre Dame." Tuesday, April24 7:00pm St. Edward's Hall Forum JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI, THANK YOU FOR THE PAST 21/2 MONTHS WITH YOU. THEY'VE BEEN THE GREATEST AND SO ARE YOU. I WISH TO DATE NO ONE ELSE, FOR I LOVE ONLY YOU VERY MUCH. YOUR BOYFRIEND, PAUL GIMBER LET US HELP YOU! SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY $100 FREE INSURANCE THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! Discounts available 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED TO LIVE AT LAFAYETIE SQ. TOWNHOUSES NEXT YEAR. (5 BEDROOMS/WASHER/DRYERIN EW AND MORE) PLEASE CALL BETH OR JILL AT 2722 OR 2723  LOVE, TheNJ WOP FACULTY, DEPT. HEADS & BOSSES: WEDNESDAY IS SECRETARY'S DAY. We Have Neat Mugs, Delicious Coffees, Teas, Cocoas and other great gifts for your SPECIAL SECRETARY. Phone orders & Deliveries available. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LAFORTUNE LOWER LEVEL 239-6714 l-ID FullyAutographed FoOtball ~,...........ally..,...,m.u.. ........btllllltdn CaDIIZ.181................ PETE'S BREWING COMPANY LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED SPECIALTY BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383.  
PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE. LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18. CALL FATMATA 239-5243 BEFORE 5 PM OR 288-0440 AFTER6 PM.  Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. 6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house.  SMC-approved LOFT --great condition; fits any dorm except Regina singles. Call Beki @ 283-2629. Best offer.  CPA TAKERS Help! I need a ride to and from Chicago for exam. Will help pay expenses. Tom 2196.  SUEO., HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!!! LOVE, PEG, KAREN AND CINDY. hiag  PRO-LIFERS: ANYONE INTERESTED IN GOING TO RIGHT TO LIFE RALLY THIS SAT. APRIL 28 IN D.C CONTACT MARIA 4500.  
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD. SEAN 2073  1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 234 6688 or 234 5041. NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable  FASHIONABLY CHEAP, ONE  GOING HOME !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim at x1143 ASAP.  Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 !  
 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk.  turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE  EARTH TONE PLAID COUCH, ONE DARK GREEN CHAIR, ONE TAUPE LEATHER-LIKE EASY CHAIR, ONE COFFEE TABLE, PERFECT CONDITION FOR YOUR DECOR. 232-5534 AFTER 5PM.  SUMMER OR FIT JOB: ND family in Chicago area looking for Nanny for 18mo boy. Live in or out. Top pay. Call (708) 433-1628.  'MO' 00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS  'Buy any 12'  
SENIOR FORMAL: Are those pictures you developed not yours? Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #1765. THANKS  3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549  ENTIRE ROOM­EVERYTHING MUST GO!! GIANT 10FT CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH-MUST SEE! ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 ANDY OR GREG.  EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN See the future of the Catholic Church: the ordination of Women.  ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­ Italian Sub witli One Litre Soft 'DrinK_  
LOST: A BLACK & GREEN CAMOUFLAGE JACKET. REWARD. 234-9648. LOST: Women's high school class ring ...gold ring, dark blue stone with gold crest on top...class of 1986...initials LAG on the inside... PLEASE CALL #2533 ·-----------------------------------­WANTED NEEDED: A ride to BALt. STATE any weekend-ext 1938  ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished room in nice, quiet house near campus. Considerate, mature, non-smoker a must. Available mid­May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call232­9952. Thanks. _________.;___________________________ SUBLETIING our Turtle Creek townhouse for Summer '90. Call Mike, x2010. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1MILE NORTH OF ND2773097  DO YOU NEED A FLIGHT TO PROV. R.I.?? monday, may 22, best offer! call Kris x2735 '80 Dodge Aspen 4 dr, AC, new tires,good condition. $750. 283-4348. TICKETS Need grad. tix for big $. Call Kevin 277-2399 ' NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN  THE ORDINATION OF WOMEN: The View of Two Bishops Tuesday Night 7:30 Library Aud. Come and Learn as Two Bishops share their view of the Future. EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN: Sign Petitions Today supporting the Ordination of Women. Petitions on Campus STEPAN CENTER BUILDING MANAGERS are needed for next year. Apply now at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune.  974-8227. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!II Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5112, In La Fortune (Dooley Room)I UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245 Sign up for the NORTH QUAD COUNCIL in the Student Government office, 2nd floor, La Frotune. Or call Mike Gaffney at 239-7668 and leave your name and phone number.  anc[ receive $1.00 off ca[[ 277-3324 ~ree tJJefivery coupon ezyires: 4-29-90  



Monday, April23, 1990 Scoreboard 
page 13 

NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division  w  L  Pet  CE  Streak  
y-Phlladelphia z-Boston  53 52  29 30  .646 .634  ,  Lost I Won3  
z-New York  45  37  .549  8  Lost3  
Washington  31  51  .378  22  Lost3  
M1ami  18  64  .220  35  Lost I  
New Jersey  17  65  .207  36  Lost 7  
Central Division  
x-Detr01t  59  23  .720  Won2  
z-Chicago  55  27  .671  4  Lost2  
z-Milwaukee  44  38  .537  15  Won2  
z-Cieveland  42  40  .512  17  Won6  
z-lndiana  42  40  .512  17  Won I  
Atlanta  41  41  .500  18  Won3  
Orlando  18  64  .220  41  Won I  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midwest Division  w  L  Pet  CE  Streak  
y-San Antonio z-Utah  56 55  26 27  .683 .671  ,  Won 7 Lost I  
z-Dallas  47  35  .573  9  Won 4  
z-Denver  43  39  .524  13  Won I  
z-Houston  4t  4t  .500  t5  Wont  
Minnesota  22  60  .268  34  Lost 5  
Charlotte  t9  63  .232  37  Lost 2  
PacHic Division  
x-LA Lakers  63  t9  .768  Lostt  
z-Portland  59  23  .720  4  Won4  
z-Phoen1x  54  28  .659  9  Lostt  
Seattle  4t  4t  .500  22  Lost t  
Golden State  37  45  .45t  26  Wont  
LA Clippers  30  52  .366  33  Lost5  
Sacramento  23  59  .280  40  Lost6  
x-clinched conference IItie  
y-clinched division title  
z-clinched playoff berth  
Saturday's Games  
Atlanta t30, Miami t09  

Milwaukee 96, New Jersey 95 Portland tt8. Sacramento ttO Los Angeles Lakers t25, Los Angeles Clippers tt5 

SUnday's Games Boston tt B. Ph1ladelph1a 98 fnd1ana t27, Washington 1t7 Cleveland t 15, New York 99 San Antonio t 08. Phoemx 93 Denver tt5, Minnesota t 08 Detroit ttt, Ch1cago t 06 Golden State 124, Seattle t22 Orlando ttO, New Jersey t02 Dallas t I 8, Charlotte t 07 Houston t 00, Utah BB Portland t30. Los Angeles Lakers 88 End Regular Sasson 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Friday, April 20 Joe and Who Are Your Friends over Magnum by t4 Slapan 1 Painfully Huge over Remember it's Stepan by 7 Air Check and Ground Support over A1r Zamea by3 Stepan 5 The Wishes over Basketball alia Quatra Lenny's Swollen Utters over Stick it You Formaggi by It Muthers! by 2 We Ain't Soft over Frank McCann's Fan Club 5 Guys Who Drove the OJ Schomacher Van and 5 Other Wrestlers by t3 over 5 Vermin Who Have Yet to See the 2nd Salt. Salt Shaker over We Golla See a Man Round by 3 about a Clog by 8 Malicious Prostitution over Nothing Fancy by 7 De Ia Sole over Mary, Cathy. Wendy and Other 
Stepan 2 Dodger Scams by t4 We G1ve Good Video over Alley Rats by t4 The Fuddle Dudd1es over Asia Ia Vista Baby by Stepan 6 
20 Anti-SW6 Team over Big Yellow Jellybeans by Secretary's Dream over Last Year's Champs by 14 t2 Irish Whiskey Runners over Traveling Cowboy The Good, the Bad and the Laundry over Dead and His 4 Bohunks by tt by Dawn by 16 The Dogs over Hennessey's Washington Bar by tO Team #579 over Tasmanian Devils by 15 Stepan 3 Hawk Will never d1e over Pangborn Express by Bookstore9 9 Chunky K's Boyz over The Kids from Down the Return of the Chickenheads over 5 Guys Who Hall by 14 Like Hoops by t3 Expresso Pizza over Leathal Weapon Ill Soul Son1c Force over The 6-man From Sk1d by Dr. D the Swami and Super Dave's Last Hurrah 10 over You're Gonna Lose by 12 Return of Sk1p Holtz Memonal... over The IBM over Drew a Blank by 4 Innkeepers by B Gauchos over Drinks for All My Friends by 9 
Stepan 4 Bookstore 10 She's Golla Have II over Gus and Ethel by 7 The Deviant Halfiefds over Sarin Hall D1gger Phelps, Sal Aunese and 3 other Guys Foodsales by I 
who Will never see Denver over Royal Ugly Dudes Team #20 over Loyola Marymount Without the by3 Points by tO 
~0
() '0 
~~ 
~~ 
//~Y~0



t-~~~~'S 

0~~'?'? 
Monday, April 23 
7:30 p.m., Theodore's 
designed for maximum audience participation 

SPORTS CALENDAR 
Monday, April 23 Baseball at Dayton (2), 2 p_m_ Softball vs. ST. FRANCIS (2), 3:30p.m. 
Tuesday, April 24 Baseball vs. CHICAGO STATE (2), Coveleski Stadium, 5 p.m. 
Wednesday, April 25 Softball vs. GRACE COLLEGE (2), 3:30p.m. 
Thursday,.Aprll26 No sports scheduled. 
Friday, April 27 Women's tennis vs. BUTLER, 3:30p.m. Track at Drake Relays Men's golf at Kepler lnvilationai. Columbus, Ohio 
Saturday, April 28 Baseball at Detroit (2), 12 p.m. Men's tennis vs. MARQUETTE, t2 p.m. and DRAKE, 2p.m. Lacrosse vs. OHIO STATE, 4 p.m. Track at Drake Relays and at Ball State Invitational Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Women's golf at Lady Boilermaker Spring Classic, West Lafayette. ln. 
Sunday, April 29 Baseball at Deloit (2), t2 p.m. Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Women's golf at Lady Boilermaker Spring Classic Softball vs. MARQUETIE (2), t p.m. 
RESULTS 
Men's Tennis Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 3 
Women's Tennis Notre Dame 8, Indiana State 1 Notre Dame 8, Illinois State t 
Lacrosse Ohio Wesleyan t6, Notre Dame 6 
Softball Won MCC tournament First round-bye Second round Notre Dame 2, Dayton t Third round Notre Dame 3, St. Louis 2 (t3 inn.) 
Men'sGoH Finished 25th out of 32 teams at Akron Invitational 
Rabid Dawgs over Jakes Finest by 6 Silent Assasins over 5 Guys Who'd Follow Digger to Akron by 4 
Jamere Jackson, Phil Sheridan and 3 Others Who Won't Score This Year over Buckhead Lawn and Racquet Club by 4 
Lyons 11 Big Mac, Pork Chop and 3 Other Hotdogs over Illinois Wouldn't Offer Us Enough by 8 Big AI and Bibbles over Members of the Board 
by2 Segue over 5 Guys Without a Prayer by t5 Raw Talent over HWA by 14 
Lyons 12 Steve Eats the Toast overTeam Trump by 7 Denver Women Want to Hold Nuggets over 
Anything Otronic Featuring Flash by 1t Pants Without Zippers over Team #340 by 7 Paradise Jam over 5 Guys Lou Holtz Doesn't 
Know by 7 
Saturday, April 21 
Bookstom9 Economics over Carpe Merkin by 7 All the President's Men over Earl Dippold 
Tavern by 10 Fast Break over 5 Guys Who Play Hard by 4 Fighting Iris II over Dining Hall Meatloaf by 16 4 Go-go-go-gophers and the Texas Todd over 
Earwax, Toecheese and 3 Other Bodily Secretions by t3 
Bookstom 10 Remember it's Denver over A Few Good Men 
1990 NFL Draft First Round Results 
There are only 25 picks in the first round in 1990 because three teams (the Broncos. Cowboys, and Cardinals) have already each used a pick from this year in last year's supplemental draft_ e = Junior; all others are seniors 
PICK TEAM PLAYER POS., SCHOOL 


II Indianapolis Colts II New York Jets II Seattle Seahawks II Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
..San Diego Chargers II Chicago Bears 
Detroit Lions 

II 
II New England Patriots Miami Dolphins
D 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
New England Patriots ID Los Angeles Raiders lEI Cincinnati Bengals m Kansas City Chiefs m New Orleans Saints Houston Oilers Buffalo Bills Dallas Cowboys Green Bay Packers Green Bay Packers Atlanta Falcons Pittsburgh Steelers m Philadelphia Eagles Los Angeles Rams New York Giants San Francisco 49ers 
Who Play Full. .. by 7 Beer, Broads, Bookstore: 2 Good Reasons to go to ND over Billy's t st Million by 14 Ammi-Jet Engine Repair over Dolly Parton and 3 Other Boobs by 19 Doggie Angst over 4 Horsemen and a Jackass 
by4 
Small but Huge over Old Milwalkee and the Sunday Morning Odors by 8 
Sunday, April 22 

Stepan 1 Slow Punch Mem Team over Air Pots and the Fly Boys by 4 Gods of Hellfire over Michelle Nambrick is a Fabulous Babe... by 5 Ad Works over Air Midget and Ground Crew by 
9 
Fighting Kernels over V's Revenge by 8 
Stepan 2 
Senior Bar over Screamong Ughes by 15 
Modacious Meatuses over 5 Good Men by 12 

Apocalypse and the 4 Horsemen over Mom Always Said Don't Play Ball in the House by 8 Pittsburgh Is Weak over t 0 Legs 9 Hands by t3 
Stepan 3 Cotton Club over It Doesn't Count Unless You HittheJby11 Sweet Scottie P and The Dwarfs over 3rd Degree Burns by 9 
J-Crew Cotton Knit... over The Teeth by forfeit 

Eddie and the Cruisers over Goldfinger and the 4 Pinkies by 5 
LIBERAL/CONSERVATIVE: THEIR ROOTS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES 
Professor John Houck Co-director Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
Professor Teresa Ghilarducci Assistant Professor of Economics 
Mike Schadeck Senior, Govemment Major 
Professor James Carberry Professor of Chemical Engineering 
Professor Bernard Norling Professor of History 
Jim McCarthy Senior, Government Major 
e Jeff George qb, Illinois Blair Thomas rb. Penn State Cortez Kennedy dt. Miami, Fla. 
e Keith McCants lb. Alabama 
e Junior Seau lb. Southern California 
• 
Mark Carrier db, Southern California 

• 
Andre Ware qb, Houston Chris Singleton lb. Arizona Richard Webb at, Texas A&M Ray Agnew dl. N. Carolina State. Anthony Smith de, Arizona James Francis lb. Baylor Percy Snow lb. Michigan State Renaldo Turnbull de, West Virgina 

• 
Lamar Lathon lb. Houston James Williams db, Fresno State 

• 
Emmitt Smith rb, Florida Tony Bennett lb. Mississippi Darrell Thompson rb, Minnesota Steve Broussard rb, Washington State Eric Green te, Liberty Ben Smith db, Georgia Bern Brostek c. Washington 

• 
Rodney Hampton rb, Georgia Dexter Carter rb, Florida State 


AP 

Stepan 4 Digger Phelps, Sal Aunese ... over She's Gatta Have II by tO Air Check and Ground Support over The Wishes by 4 The Fuddy Duddies over We Give Good Video by4 The Hawk Will Never Die over Return of the Chickenheads by 2 
Stepan 5 
Small But Huge over Doggie Angst by 4 
Ministers of Pain over Conscientious Revolter 
by tO 
Flipper and the Undertows over Hold the 
Fatone by tt 
Fastbreak over Economics by 7 
Stepan 6 
Just Chillin' over Bachus and the Labotomies 
by2 

Shirts over Enawd by 9 
IBM over Fighlin Iris II by 1 0 
Bookstore9 Anti-SW6 Team over lnsh Wh1skeyRunners by 
South Bend, Mishawaka, Still Alive with Pride over Sweet Lou and the T eabags by 12 Lenny's Swollen Utters over 5 Guys Who Drive the Schumaker Van by B 
Bookstore 10 
Denver Women Want to Hold Our Nuggets over 
Pants Without Zippers by 8 
The Gauchos over Dr. D, the Swami by t4 
Rabid Dawgs over Team #20 by 7 
Segue over Big Mac. Pork Chop, .... by 2 
WOMEN'S RESULTS 
Saturday, April 21 
Stepan 7 Slow Motion over Jacks and the Beanstalk by 7 
Stepan 8 
Untamed Lyons over Team #46 by forfeit 
Lyons 11 
Chickens Have Lipps over Not Telling by forfeit 
Hoosier Lawyers over Mary Shine and 4 Other 
Gi~s That Know What a B-Ball Looks Like by forleil 
MetaMucils over 5 Wild MBA Women by 16 
Hey Loppo. What's That on Your Neck over Juan's Angels by t9 Hoosier Lawyers over Doin' Monroe Proud by forleit 
Lyons 12 
T and A over Happy Dyngus Day by forleil 
SUnday, April 22 
Stepan 4 
4 Dunak and a Dink over SDYPD by 20 
Rebels With a Cause over We're Whorrible by 12 
Lyons 11 5 Girls Who Just Do II over Knott Necessarily a B-Ball Team by 19 Smooth, Sweet and Sweaty over Turlel Pollee by9 5 Sistahs Tired of These Fools Trying to be Meh... Yes You I over Hell from Above by 12 
Lyona12 
Hair, Hell and the 3 Jens over Let "Em Sprt Blood by tO 
No Surrender over Jo-Jo's Angels by 10 
Heavy B and the Girls over A High Post and Low Post and a Lampost by 14 Denial over 5 Teenage Mutant Ninja Midgets by t6 
NOTE: SCHEDULES FOR MONDAY, APRIL 23 WERE NOT AVAILABLE TO THE OBSERVER. 



Blues down Chicago, take 2-1edge in series 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Gino Hull extended his scoring Cavallini scored on a rebound streak to all eight of the Blues' with nine seconds remaining to playoff games, during which he give the St. Louis Blues a 5-4 has 10 goals and seven assists. victory over the Chicago He scored his fifth power-play Blackhawks Sunday night and a goal of the playoffs in the first 2-1 lead in the Norris Division period, setting a team record. finals. Sergio Momesso set another 
Cavallini, scoring his first team record, for the fastest playoff goal in three seasons, goal at the start of the game, put the rebound of a slapshot scoring after 18 seconds. by Jeff Brown past fallen goal­The Blues were 2-for-5 on the tender Greg Millen to cap a wild power play after going 1-for-8 third period. Each team scored with the man advantage the twice in the final 7:34. first two games or the series. 
Brett Hull's second goal of The Blackhawks were 1-for-6 the game and 10th of the play­on the power play. offs tied it 4-4 with 4:36 re­Doug Wilson and Dave maining. Manson also scored for the 
Hull tipped in a shot from the Blackhawks, who outshot the left point by Gordie Roberts 48 Blues 21-7 in the third period seconds after Steve Thomas and 48-28 overall. scored on a wraparound while Momesso gave the Blues a on his knees to put the quick lead when he beat Millen Blackhawks ahead. from the slot off a centering 
Chicago entered the third pe­pass from Hull. Peter Zezel had riod trailing 3-2 but had the the puck first but he was first 13 shots of the period. The knocked down and Momesso pressure finally paid off as Bob recovered it, blasting it past Murray scored a fluke goal Millen's stick side. 
AP Photo

with 7:34 to go when his The goal bettered by 13 sec­
The Chicago Blackhawk's Seve Konroyd is followed by teammate
centering effort deflected into onds the previous team mark 
Doug Wilson as the Hawks continue their quest for the Stanley Cup. 
the net off the knee of for fastest goal at the start of goaltender Vincent Riendeau. a playoff game set by Jean-Guy Game 4 Tuesday night, also at back late in the first period but 
Thomas made it 4-3 with 5:22 Talbot in 1970 and equalled by the Forum. remained in the game. to go. Thomas was stopped on Brind'Amour last season. Only two teams in playoff The Kings eliminated a breakaway late in the second history have come back from 3-Edmonton in the I first round 
period, but he got two swipes Oilers 5, Kings 4 0 deficits. last year, Gretzky's first season at the puck from the side of the INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Craig Wayne Gretzky, the NHL's all-with Los Angeles after a trade net before putting it past Simpson scored twice and time scoring leader and the top that shook the hockey world. Riendeau. launched Edmonton's comeback point-maker during the regular The Kings seemed to have 
Brown's power-play goal at from a two-goal deficit as the season this year, finally man-solved Oilers goaltender Bill 
9:42 of the second period had Oilers beat the Los Angeles . aged to get a point against his Hanford, who had allowed only given the Blues a 3-2 lead. The Kings 5-4 Sunday night to take former Oilers teammates when one goal in the previous two Blues caught the Blackhawks a 3-0 lead in the Smythe he scored the Kings' fourth games. 
up ice and got a 3-on-2 break, Division finals. goal with 1:09 left. The Kings But Hanford won his sixth and Brown scored just inside The Oilers can wrap up their were skating with a sixth at-straight game and the Oilers the left side of the net after a sixth Smythe Division playoff tacker when Gretzky scored. continued to get economy out pass from Rod Brind'Amour. title in eight years if they win Gretzky took a hard shot to the of their shots on goal 

Rockets win way into playoffs as season ends 
HOUSTON (AP) -The next-to­ Antonio on Thursday and  of 13.9 assists per game with  The Spurs (56-26) won the  
last game on the final night of  Phoenix at Utah on Friday.  14.5.  division for the first time since  
the 1989-90 NBA season finally  The eight Eastern Conference  Seattle blew a chance to  1983 and finished the regular  
determined the playoff pairings.  teams were determined before  clinch a playoff berth when Tim  season with a seven-game win­ 
The Houston Rockets, given  Sunday, but the exact matchups  Hardaway's layup with three  ning streak. They won 35  
life earlier Sunday when Seattle  weren't decided until Sunday.  seconds remaining gave Golden  games more than last year, an  
lost 124-122 at Golden State,  On Thursday night, it's  State the victory.  NBA record for one-season im­ 
took advantage of the opening  Indiana at Detroit, Cleveland at  Golden State led 122-116 with  provement.  
by defeating Utah 100-88 be­ Philadelphia and New York at  43 seconds left in the game, but  Phoenix, finishing the regular  
hind Akeem Olajuwon's 28  Boston, followed on Friday by  Dana Barros hit a 3-pointer to  season at 54-28, had a chance  
points and Vernon Maxwell's  Milwaukee at Chicago on  pull Seattle within three, and  for the No. 4 spot in the  
27.  Friday.  Quintin Daily followed with an­ Western Conference, but the  
"The key was getting into the  Utah's Karl Malone, who led  other 3-pointer, tying the game  loss dropped the Suns to No. 5.  
playoffs, now we can wipe the  the Jazz with 20 points and 11  with 7.1 seconds left.  Brad Daugherty scored 26  
slate clean. It's a new situa­ rebounds, said Houston was in  After a Warriors timeout,  points as Cleveland clinched  
tion," Coach Don Chaney said.  a tough spot because it had to  Hardaway cut down the lane  seventh place in the Eastern  
The Rockets finished in a tie  rely on Golden State's victory to  for a pass from Rod Higgins  Conference and won its sixth  
with Seattle at 41-41, but  gain a playoff berth.  that led to the winning basket,  straight game by defeating New  
Houston was 28-28 in confer­ "If I was drowning I would  giving the rookie guard 28  York 115-99.  
ence play compared to the  rather find the log myself to  points.  Indiana beat Washington  
SuperSonics' 26-30.  float on than depend on some­ Dale Ellis led all scorers with  127-117 and finished the regu­ 
"Now it's like a new season.  one else to save me," he said.  33 points and 11 rebounds for  lar season with a 42-40 record,  
We can put all the disappoint­ Larry Smith had a season­ Seattle before fouling out with  its best since 1980-81, and the  
ments behind us and all we  high 18 rebounds and Otis  1:41 left. Xavier McDaniel had  Pacers finished above .500  

Monday, April 23, 1990 

Teams pick juniors early in NFL draft 
NEW YORK (AP) -NFL teams put away their skepti­cism Sunday and went for tal­ent over experience. 
It was the first year the draft 
was unconditionally open to ju­
niors and they went fast -live 
underclassmen in the first 
seven choices; eight in the 25­
player first round and two 
more in the second round. 
They included Illinois quar­
terback Jeff George as the No. 
1 pick by Indianapolis, 
Alabama linebacker Keith 
McCants by Tampa Bay, 
Southern Cal linebacker Junior 
Seau by San Deigo, Southern 
Cal defensive back Mark 
Carrier by Chicago and 
Houston Heisman Trophy win­
ner Andre Ware by Detroit. 
George, who on Friday signed 
a six-year, $15 million package 
with Indianapolis, was the first 
pick, the Colts having obtained 
it for tackle Chris Hinton, wide 
receiver Andre Rison and next 
year's No. 1. 
He was followed by two se­niors, Blair Thomas of Penn State and Miami defensive tackle Cortez Kennedy, who went to Seattle after the Seahawks gave up the eighth and 10th picks to move into New England's No. 3 slot. 
Then came the rush to under­
classmen with McCants, Seau, 
Carrier and Ware. 
Of the juniors, Carrier was 
the shocker -he was consid­
ered no more than a late first­
or second-round choice by most 
teams. One reason is that he 
had already agreed to a five­
year deal. 
Another one came five picks 
later at No. 11, when the 
Haiders made one of their clas­
sic picks -Anthony Smith, a 
defensive end from Arizona 
who has a hi.:;tory of knee 
problems and played at three 
colleges, starting with 
Alabama. 
After Ware, taken by Detroit 
with the seventh pick, came 
Arizona linebacker Chris 
Singleton to New England; 
Webb, the Texas A&M offensive 
tackle, to Miami; North 
Carolina State defensive tackle 
Ray Agnew to New England; Smith to the Raiders; Baylor linebacker James Francis to Cincinnati; Michigan State linebacker Percy Snow to Kansas City and West Virginia defensive end Renaldo Turnbull to New Orleans. 
Then came another junior, Houston's Lamar Lathon to the Oilers, where he will play for his colle~ coach, Jack Pardee. 


have to do is. win, and I think Thorpe added 19 points and 15 21 points and 14 rebounds for we can," Olajuwon said. rebounds for the Rockets. the Sonics. 
Houston will play the Los John Stockton had 11 assists San Antonio clinched the Angeles Lakers in the first to break his own NBA single­Midwest Division title and No. 2 round beginning Friday. season record, increasing his spot in the Western Conference 



EUROPE! 
Elsewhere in the Western total to 1,134, six more than he playoffs, beating Phoenix 108­Conference, it will be Dallas at had in 1987-88. He also broke 93 behind Terry Cummings' 27 
WITH SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL
De11ver at San Isiah Thomas' 1984-85 record oints. 
Seven Seas Travel, your local European travel experts, can help you with any travel plans you may need to experience Europe this Spring and Sum­
mer. We know Europe well ... and can help you with your travel plans .. regardless of your travel budget.
20°/o Discount 

TO STUDENTS AND FACULTV 
EUROPE!

•Eye Exams •Large Selection of Frames •All Types of Contacts 
with Seven Seas Travel Seven Seas Travel Is Your Local Europe Travel Specialist 

*Lowest Airfares To Europe 
*Eurail Passes 
~ 

Professional Vision 

*Assistance With Tour Planning 
1635 N. Ironwood 277-1161 

For Your Trip To Europe:
Dr. Ronald Snyder 277-1161
South of U.S.23 
and Associates 

SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL
North of McDonald's 

525 North Michi an St. South Bend IN 46601 Tel: 219-232-7995 

--~------------~-­
OSU the latest victim to fall to the Irish men's tennis team 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
Three years ago, Head Coach Bob Bayliss could only imagine having a capacity packed crowd on hand to watch Notre Dame matehes. a pnrfect sunny day in South Bnnd, and a Big 10 power as the foe. Well, every­thing Bayliss imagined was a reality on the Courtney Tennis Courts on Sunday afternoon. Not only did his dream become a reality but Notre Dame's 6-3 drubbing of Ohio State brought the dream of an NCAA Tournament appearance a little closer to rnali ty. 
"Today's win will help us a lot," said Bayliss. "Hopefully we are going to finish with one loss (Wisconsin) in thn region. 
Northwestern still has to play Ohio State and Indiana. Maybe one of those team will knock off Northwestern. Also, we are still in contention for an at­large bid where 16 of the top 17 teams nationally go to the tournament." 
For the second time in a week, Notre Dame earned a convincing win over a Big 10 foe in the singles portion of the contest. The 20-4 Irish, who downed Michigan for the first time in 29 years earlier this week, took five of the six sin­gles matches including No. 1 Dave DiLucia's straight set victory over the much heralded Ty Tucker, 7-6 (7-2), 6-1. 
"We played a solid match," said Bayliss. "We have been ready for this match. We have 


Walter Dolhare 

worked really hard and I think we are starting to play rather well. This match was the first match that we played outdoors and the heat makes it hard to play." 
"I think the difference in the match was the home courts," 
said Ohio St,ate Head Coach 
John Daly. "We have done well 
at home this year but we have not played well at all on the road. The home court means more in tennis than any other sport. It is just those little things like the tennis balls and the surface that make a differ­ence." 
In the marquee match of the contest, DiLucia, the No. 26 player in the nation, utilized a strong overall game to beat Tucker. The pivotal point of the match was the first set tiebreaker. After battling to a 6-6 tie, DiLucia capitalized on a number of Tucker's unforced errors to race to a S-0 lead and take the first set. Thereafter. DiLucia dictated the match and notched another victory against a nationally ranked opponent. 
"David victory was a key to the match," said Bayliss. "David showed a lot of courage and a pretty good patience to­day. He put pressure on him and moved him around well. In my opinion. the biggest thing is that David went right after him." 
Senior captain Walter Dolhare, the No. 2_ player, came up big in the third set to post a solid victory against Kevin DiBelius, 6-1, 4-6, 6-4. 
"That was a big win for Walter," said Bayliss. "Walter made sure he hit good shots and stuck to his game plan. It certainly wasn't his prettiest match of the year but he won." 
Only for studentAmerican Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many of tbe more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six 
.weeks after you receive the tard. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 

• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 
speed the process.) 

Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 





1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

•If you arc already a student American Express Cardme~ber and have a question about this prow-am, ~lease send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express,. P.O Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensbo10, NC 27425. Fare IS for roundtnp travel on Northwest Auhnes. T1ckets must be purchased w1thm 24 hours after making reservations. Fa,res are nonrefundable and no Itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may. not be.available when you call. Travel ~ust ·originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Tnve~ may not be ava1lable between cities to which Nonhwest docs not have pubhshed rouungs. Cn:y fuel surcharges not mcluded m fare from Boston ($2.50), Ch1cago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Flonda_Citles ($2.00). Cerram blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete: offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
----------------------~----------------------------­
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
•••-·••••-•a.a••.a•··•.a•~~••••---••• . , A.~:IJ, ~.~ 



SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
A.Picnic for all St. Mary's athletes will be held on Monday, Apnl ~3 fro~ 6-7 p.m. It will be at the North end of Angela Athletic facility by the softball diamond. Come one come 
all! ' 
Irish Insanity will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of Lafortune. Next year's plans are being made so please attend. 
~~A Sp~ing runs were held last weekend. Carl Vogel and Ja.mice Rms won the undergrad 3-mile run. while Craig Stilwell and Mary Beetel won the 22-35 division Dave Flickinger and Maria Rhomberg won the 6-mile undergrad run. Brad Moening and Pam Stricklin won the 22-35 division while Marec Szopski and Rita Gautier won the 36­45 race. 

NO softball beats Billikens to capture the MCC crown 
Special to The Observer 
A dramatic 13-inning victory over Saint Louis allowed the Notre Dame softball team to capture the Midwest Collegiate Conference tournament title on Sunday. 
Lisa Miller's sacrifice fly scored Amy Folsom in the bot­tom of the 13th to give the Irish the 3-2 win over the Billikens in the final game of the tourna­ment. Folsom, who had four hits in six at-bats in the game, singled to start the inning and moved to second on a sacrifice. Co-captain Kathy Vernetti sin­gled Folsom to third to set up Miller's game-winning sacrifice. 
Freshman Staci Alford pitched all 13 innings to record 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
six in a 21-7 Raw Talent victory. 
Defending Bookstore champion Malicious Prostitution advanced with a 21-14 victory over Nothing Fancy. Point guard Joe Scott led the way for Prostitution with eight points, while John Bergman pitched in seven and added nine rebounds. 
A bit of controversy surrounded J-Crew Cotton 
Knit's forfeit victory over The Teeth. After The Teeth defeated J-Crew in a hard-fought 21-18 ballgame, it was determined 
... 
that The Teeth had played with an ineligible player, and J-Crew was awarded the victory. 
In other Bookstore action, 

Zack Nagle's eight points led 
Cotton Club t It Doesn't the win for the Irish in a game which was scoreless until Saint Louis scored two runs in the top of the 12th. The Irish coun­tered with Rachel Crossen's two-out, two-run double in the bottom of that inning before finishing off the Billikens in the 13th. 
Notre Dame also beat Dayton 

2-1 earlier in the ~urnament ~~~~~~~~a~y~s=a~.v=e~~~o=~~=~~~e~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
as sophomore Missy Linn went the distance to record the win. The Irish were down 1-0 to the Flyers in the seventh but scored two runs in the bottom of that inning to win. 
Next up for the Irish is a 3:30 
p.m. doubleheader today against Saint Francis at Alumni Field. 
Count Unless You Hit the J. in a 21-10 triumph; Small but Huge came up big in a 21-13 win over Old Milwaukee and the Sunday Morning Odors on Saturday and a 21-17 victory over Doggie Angst on Sunday; and Modacious Mnatuses motored past 5 Good Men 21-9. 
Also, The Fuddie Duddies rode Phil Batchelor's seven points to victory over We Give Good Video; and Slow Punch's Memorial Team managed to record a 21-1 7 win over Air Potts and the Fly Boys despite shooting just 21 for 89 (24 percent) from the field. 



Women's Bookstore gets started 
By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 

Over a weekend perfect for Bookstore Basketball, the women's field of 66 teams was cut down as seeded teams ad­vanced to the next round. 
The Meta Mucils, a final eight team from last year's tourna­ment, won easily over 5 Wild MBA Women 21-5 as former Irish basketball walk-on Molly Mahoney carried the team with 13 points. 
"We were pleased to win be­cause we had an unexpected piece of news when we found out that Kathy Cunningham in­jured her back in spring work­outs with the volleyball team," Mahoney said. "Luckily, we were able to pick up former Irish basketball center Beth Morrison." · 
5 Girls Who Just Do It did, as it crushed Knott Necessarily a B-ball Team. The players from Knott seemed to be anything 
How you live t~ 
1~~ SOCJETY111
I 

r The University Libraries of Notre Dame celebrate 
National Library Week April 22-28, 1990 
Special Library Line -239-6680 
Monday -1bunday, 10:00 a.m. -500 PM, April 23-26, 1990 
Make suggestions! Get answers! University Libraries' administrators will handle calls! 
Win $50 Database search Register at Hesburgh or any of the five branch database locations Six winners will be drawn 
University Libraries-check them out! 
but a basketball team as they lost 21-2. 
Jill Bodensteiner and Pandora Fecko led 5 Girls with six points each, and former Irish center Sandy Botham . who returns from last year's championship team, scored four times in their victorious effort. 
In other lopsided action, Hey Loppo, What's That On Your Neck stopped Juan's Angels 21­
2. Four Dunks and a Dink made SDYP2 sorry it showed up when the final score read 21-1. 
Denial denied any further play to 5 Teenage Mutant Ninja Midgets when it won 21-5. Amy Mountz, who scored five points in the winning effort for Denial, commented on the positive at­mosphere as helping their team. 
"It was so nice out, and there was music playing from Hogstock, that it seemed more like a party than a basketball game," she said. 
Slow Motion wasn't playing slow on Saturday when it beat Jacks and the Beanstalk, 21-14. 
"The tournament was run very smoothly, and it was fun to play," said freshman Amy Bacigalupi, who led the winners with seven points. "It was also fun to win." 
Smooth, Sweet, and Sweaty, a team from Howard Hall, de­feated the Turlet Police, an­other team from Howard, 21­12. 
"We had fun, but it was kind of strange playing against your friends," said Marianne Haggerty, who led the winners with 10 points. 
The weekend's action was marked by five games won by forfeit. Hoosier Lawyers, a Final Four team from last year's action, won as Doin' Monroe Proud didn't by not showing up. The seeded team of five law students continues to the next round. Not Telling weren't doing anything as it forfeited to Chickens Have Lipps. 
• 






All Junior Accounting &Finance Majors 
Arthur Andersen presents: 

Preparing for the Fall Interviewing Process 
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 5:00PM Monogram Room Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
Dress is Casual Pizza & Refreshments to Follow
Ifyou wme to us, we'll tcU you how you can help uop abuse ofour public :and!i. Btoncofthcgoodguys 
Wmc. Take PndeinA.merica, P.O. Box 1339, jessup, MD 20794 

~~----------------~ --------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------~--~­

Unser Jr. sets record in winning grand prix 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (AP) -This time, AI Unser Jr. left no room for doubt. 
Last year, Unser stirred controversy and drew a chorus of derision from the fans by shunting aside Mario Andretti on the way to winning the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach. But on Sunday, he took no chances, staying in front for all but four laps on the way to a record-setting third straight Long Beach victory. 
"All I want to say is that we did it right this time," Unser said after holding off a late charge by tena­cious Emerson Fittipaldi. 
Unser, who led for 91 of 95 laps on the l.b7 -mile, 11-turn downtown street drcuil. said he didn't feel the victory came easily. 
"It was very competitive," 
the freckle-faced 28-year­
old said. "Emerson had me 
worried big time there at 
the end. 
"He caught me and really got on me. But today I had straightaway speed that we didn't have earlier this week." 
Fittipaldi, the defending CART Indy-car series champion, paced himself early in the race, conserv­ing fuel in a race that usu­ally puts a premium on fuel economy. 
However. the only full­course caution flag of the 158.65-mile event came late in the race and ended those worries. 
The margin of victory was '1. 724 seconds. 

NOTICE 

Regretfully, our honey which many of you en­joyed at the "Taste of Notre Dame" over the past several years is no longer used in the Notre Dame dining halls. 
Our honey continues to be available at prefer­red food centers throughout Michiana, including Cira's, County Market Hank's, Kroger. and Martin's! 


Saint Mary's wins one at regionals 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team was defeated this weekend at the NCAA Division III nationals qualifier match at Madison. 
In the tournament, all re­gional Division III schools competed. The top three teams will compete in the national tournament. 
The Belles regular season number one singl~s player, Jen Block, a senior, playing injured, competed in the number four singles position at the tourna­ment. The Belles won in the first round, defeating Carlton College in a close match, 5-4. 
Winners for the Belles in­cluded sophomore Ellen Mayer at number three, number four Block, sophomore Marie Koscielski playing number five singles, and a freshman, Natalie Kloepfer at number six. The doubles team of Kloepfer and freshman Denise McDonald were also victorious. 
The Belles did suffer some defeats, however. Number two McDonald lost a close match, 7-5, 7-5, and the number two doubles team of Mayer and Koscielski lost in three sets, 4­6, 6-3, 5-7. 
In the second round, the Belles lost to the number two seeded Kenyon College, 6-3. Number one singles player Sarah Mayer, a junior, lost her first set, but then battled back to defeat her opponent in three sets, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
"The difference between her playing and her opponents was that she never gave up. She was tired, but she wouldn't give up. I think that she just wanted the win more. She played a great match," said Belles coach Charlene Szakjo. 
Ellen Mayer, at number three, lost in tough three sets, 7-6 (7­4), 2-6, 2-6. Number five Koscielski was narrowly de­feated by her opponent in 
straight sets 7-5, 7-5. Block de­feated her opponent at-number four in straight sets, 6-2, 6-0. 
In the doubles competition, the number one team of Block and Sarah Mayer won 6-4, 6-4. while the number two doubles team of Koscielski and Ellen Mayer lost in three sets, 6-0, :~­6, 4-6. 
The Belles then lost, in the backdraw round, to De Pauw University, 5-4. Number two McDonald lost her first set, battled back to win the second, but then lost a close third set, 1-6, 7-6 ( 7-4), 4-6. Playing at number four singles, Jen Block easily defeated her opponent 6­1, 6-3. Number six Kloepfer won in a close third set battle, 
6-2. 3-6, 7-6 (7-3). 
In the doubles competition, the number one team of Block and Sarah Mayer won in straight sets, 6-1, 7-6 (7-4). The match was tied at 4-4, and came down to the number three doubles match. The team of McDonald and Kloepfer was defeated in the first set and was down 5-2 in the second. The team battled back to tie the set at 6-6, but lost in the tie­breaker. The final score was 1­6, 7-6 (7-5). 
"Overall, I think we played well. It indicated that we could compete and that we are at the same level as Division Three schools. It was just a couple of points that made the differ­ence," said coach Szakjo. 
The Belles will finish their season this weekend against Grand Rapids College and the University of Toledo. 
Mirer 
continued from page 20 
undoubtedly his most impres­sive outing of the spring. 
Sophomore inside linebacker Demetrius DuBose, pushing se­nior Donn Grimm for the "Mike" position, led all tacklers with 12. Sophomore outside split end lUcky Watters. 
NOTES: Ismail returned to the field on Friday after miss­ing much of spring practice to concentrate on academics. Split end Tony Smith, defensive tackle Troy Hidgley, tailback Rusty Setzer and outside linebacker Shawn Smith missed Saturday's scrimmage for simi­lar reasons. 
linebacker Eric Simien posted 11 tackles, including one for an eight-yard loss. Nose tackle Chris Zorich had nine, including two for losses. 
Sophomore inside linebacker Randy Scianna made the first interception of the spring, snagging a Mirer pass which bounced out of the arms of 
Laney Family Honey Company  Help Prevent Birth Defects  
North Liberty, Indiana 46544  ~ Support the  
~------------------~~~~!J~~tu~~~~-----------------------~  


Student Government's lAST LEOURE SERIES 



SrunENf 
~~ 




TUE~DAY, APRIL 24th 
Professor Morris from the Philosophy Dept. 
8:00pm at Theodore's 
APWORKS 

,.. 
-~ ---­

Irish victors in two matches 
Braves hand Reds first loss, 3-1 
By BARBARA MORAN 

Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team took two wins over the weekend, beating Indiana State and Illinois State on the road to improve its record to 16-8 overall. 

The Irish took both victories on Saturday at Illinois State, defeating Indiana State 8-1 in the morning and wrapping up the day with an 8-1 win over Illinois State. Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said that the weekend's competition was stronger than he had expected. 
"Indiana State was pretty solid at the top, and Illinois State was solid all the way down," said Louderback. "Illinois was a little better than I'd thought they'd be. Both teams weren't that bad." 
Louderback was pleased with his team's overall performance, and especially 


Draft 
continued from page 20 
returning to a warm-weather climate. 
"I was kind of hoping to go to a team that was warm again," said Terrell. "That was defi­nitely a plus." 
Rated the second-best safety in the draft, Terrell expected to be selected shortly after the Bears took Mark Carrier with the sixth pick of the first round. However, things didn't quite happen the way the ana­lysts had predicted. 
"The mixed feelings started late in the first round," said Terrell. "I saw myself slipping, but I was happy Carrier went to the Bears because I thought I would be picked soon after that. Then the second round started and more defensive backs went ahead of me. 
"I was a little bit upset and disappointed at first, but when you get picked in the NFL all feelings and emotions stop. It is a thrill, a dream come true for me. I'm more than satisfied." 
Rams' head coach John Robinson told Terrell that he would keep six defensive backs on the roster and had consid­ered moving a cornerback to safety. But once he found Terrell was still available, the move no longer proved neces­
sary. 
Quick tackle Mike Brennan 

was a fourth-round selection by 
the Cincinnati Bengals, the 
92nd player taken overall. A 
first-year starter on the Irish praised the play of Katie Clark, who took over at the top singles spot for the injured Tracy Barton. 
"Sometimes when you play against a team which you don't expect much problem from, you play down at their level," said the coach. "But we went out and played the best we could. We played well. 
"Katie Clark played really well against Illinois State. She won 7-5, 6-2 at No. 1 singles, and the last time she had played this girl, she had lost. She played really well." 
Kristy Doran also performed admirably in her first appearance since she sustained a wrist injury several weeks ago. She took a victory in her doubles appearance with Eniko Bende, and also won a singles match 6-2, 6-0. 
Tracy Barton, the other half of the injured Irish duo, did not compete last weekend. 
stepped in to replace All­American Andy Heck, who was a first-round selection of the Seattle Seahawks. 
The 6-5, 260-pound fifth-year senior originally came to Notre Dame as a 180-pound lacrosse player. He joined the football team in 1986 as a walk-on tight end before following Heck's path into the draft. 
Cornerback Stan Smagala, Terrell's roommate at Notre Dame, also will be playing pro ball in Los Angeles. He went to the Los Angeles Raiders in the fifth round of the draft. the 122nd player taken overall. 

IAMERICAN 

WCANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 

CINCINNATI (AP) -The Cincinnati Reds figured they'd stay unbeaten until they ran into a hot pitcher. 
Tom Glavine proved them right. 
The Reds finally lost. falling to the Atlanta Braves 3-1 Sunday after starting the sea­son with a team-record nine straight victories. 
"We knew sooner or later we'd run into a good pitcher," third baseman Chris Sabo said. "He's tough. It seems he always pitches well against us." 
Glavine is 5-2 lifetime against the Reds, and gives them fits with his sharp slider. It was breaking nicely Sunday. 
Dale Murphy's three-run homer in the first inning helped the Braves end their seven­game losing streak and protect their record for the best start in National League history. Atlanta won its first 13 in 1982, a mark matched by Milwaukee in 1987. 
Manager Lou Piniella lost for the first time with Cincinnati. The Reds' winning streak, which included four victories over Atlanta, was their longest since 1975, when they won the World Series. 
Dodgers 2, Astros 0 
LOS ANGELES -Ramon 
Martinez pitcher! a three-hitter 
and Lenny Harris drove in both 
runs as Los Angeles beat 
Houston Astros. 

Martinez (1-0) pitched his third career shutout in 24 starts. The right-hander, be­ginning his first full season in the major leagues, struck out nine and walked one. 
Mets 5, Expos 0 

NEW YORK-Sid Fernandez pitched a two-hitter and Keith Miller hit a two-run homer as New York beat Montreal, giving the Mets consecutive victories for the first time this season. 
Fernandez (1-1) struck out 


Place your ring order before you leave 
for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
assure you of having it when you 

I return to school in the fall.


I I HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M.
I 

I 
I I Monday -Friday I I I 
I 

I • IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
..._ ___ _

----~~~~-------­
four and walked two in his sixth career shutout. He al­lowed just a pair of singles by Tim Raines in his fifth lifetime two-hitter, and 16th complete game in 166 starts. 
Phillies 5, Cardinals 3 
ST. LOUIS -Randy Ready hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning and drove in three runs as Philadelphia rallied past St. Louis for a three-game sweep. 
The Cardinals lost their fourth straight game and have dropped five in a row at home, their longest skid at Busch Stadium since five consecutive losses May 27 -June 2 last ye~r. 
Pirates 3, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO -Bobby Bonilla hit a two-run double, raising his National League-leading RBI total to 16, and Neal Heaton won his eighth straight decision as Pittsburgh beat Chicago. 
Heaton (3-0) gave up two runs on five hits in six innings. He walked none, struck out two and even stole a base in his third start of the season. TPd Power went 1 2-3 innings for his first save. 
Indians 5, White Sox 2 
CLEVELAND -Cory Snyder hit a two-run, go-ahead homer in the fifth inning and Bud Black (1-0) allowed five hits in eight innings as Cleveland won its third straight. 
Felix Fermin added a solo home run in the seventh, his first career homer in 655 at­bats over 231 major league games. 
Snyder gave Cleveland a 4-2 lead when he homered off Greg Hibbard (1-1) on the first pitch after Carlos Baerga singled with two outs in the fifth. 
California 5, Minnesota 2 
MINNEAPOLIS -Donnie Hill had three hits, including a tie­breaking single in the seventh inning. 
Chuck Finley (3-0) allowed seven hits in 6 1-3 innings and Mark Eichhorn finished for his third save as California stopped a four-game losing streak. 

Orioles 3, Tigers 2 

BALTIMORE Mike Henneman walked Brady Anderson with the bases loaded in the 12th inning, Anderson's fourth walk of the game. 
Detroit pitchers issued 12 walks in the game and walked 35 in the four-game series. 
Craig Worthington doubled and Henneman (0-1) intentionally walked Joe Orsulak. Billy Ripken's bunt single loaded the bases and Henneman walked Anderson on a 3-1 pitch. 
Red Sox 4, Brewers 2 

MILWAUKEE -Jody Reed hit a two-out, two-run single off Dan Plesac in the 11th inning. 
Milwaukee's club record of 31 consecutive scoreless innings ended in the third when Ellis Burks hit an RBI single. 
Randy Kutcher doubled off Plesac (0-1) with one out in the 11th and took third on Marty Barrett's single. Barrett stole second and Reed lined an 0-2 pitch into left field. 
Rangers 10, Yankees 4 

ARLINGTON, Texas Harold Baines and Mike Stanley hit three-run homers and Rafael Palmeiro hit a two-run homer. The Rangers outscored New York 25-15 in the three­game series. 
Kevin Brown (3-0) gave up four runs and 11 hits in 7 1-3 innings. Jeff Russell got the final four outs for his fourth save. 
Mariners 5, Athletics 2 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Ken Griffey Jr. and Jeffrey Leonard drove in two runs each as Seattle gained a split of the four-game series. 

Many of Our Best MBA's Came from Liberal Arts Programs. 
You don't !WE'd a rE><"ognizE>d 
high-tech engineer­MBA program. 
ing, math, or computE>r Don't hE> afraid to apply. 
science degree to E>xeel WE' prE>pare agilE> mind'i 
in liT's internationally from many <lisdplirws for 
btt'iinE>ss success. 

Calll-800-MBA-NEXT for Complete Information on the MBA Program at liT. 
Full-time, part-timE> E>wning and Satmday :\1BA programs are 
offered at liT's main eamptt'i, liT Downtown CE>nter, liT West 
in Glen Ellyn and the Galvin Center in Sc·hatunbm·g. 
Stuart School of Business 

m 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Chicago, IL60616 ]!l!lllillmoi-.ln... lillilt•ttl Tt•dlllnltt),t\ 
4 Region  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  5 In abundance  
6 Love, Italian  
style  
7 Bluish-white  
metal  
8 River in  
Germany  
9 Angular meeting  
place  
10 Rebel  
..;...,;.+:::+::-+=:-~  11 Venetian-blind  
part  
11!!!11-:-+:::~~:+.:::+=-t  12 Dorothy's dog  
~::+.:::+.::;:+.-r.-t:;+.=i  13 Bridge  
-':+±~EB:+.~  21 Showy bulb  
flower  

The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


Stimulating Issues-Liberal/Conservative: Their Roots and Their Consequences 
A formal exchange of ideas among liberal and conservative students and professors 
Designed for maximum audience paricipation 
Monday, April 23 


Free

7:30 P.M. Theodore's 
Admission 
7 p.m. Film, "Tout Va Bien", Annenberg Auditorium. SponsQred by ND Communication and Theater. 
9 p.m. film, "He pulsion", Annen berg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theater. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

2:30 p.m. Lecture, "Privatization of State-Owned Enterprise Ownership vs. Privatization of Management in Latin America," Hichard Mallon, Harvard Institute for International Development and Economics. Room 131 Deeio. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Economics Development Workshop. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Dorigen and the Falcon," Jennifer Goodman, Texas A & M University. Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's. Sponsornd by the Dept. of English. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Brown Bag, "Basismo: Ideological Background and Practical Prospects," David Lehman. University of Cambridge, England. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
12:10 p.m. Lecture, "Twentieth Century Art From the Frederick Baer Collection." by Stephen Spiro, Chief Curator, Snite Museum of Art. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Pot Boast a Ia Mode Grilled Sole Broccoli, Cheese, Rice Casserole BBQ Pork Sandwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
GO 0\lT t. UTilE S\'1, t-.~0 l.'Ll \.11\ '(QIJ fl.. GROO~IUt,R. 

'ri\.1'( DID I. 'SIGN IJP FOR TI\\'S? I. ~LO 
~ 11 J\l':.l l'<t:Nt: · 
~.--€ 
~·· 
~'(().)OK? \\lt>.G5 fOR 11\E 
T\B, or>.D. aM.l. \l:I'Jt~e.Es 
9:lt.\Hil'IIE5 \tit. 
riDE t~~~ ~o~ IJP L\K£. 1\.\ft..\, 
fi..KO ~0 \0 IN M~O iCI\l'~E GO\ 
ICE. ':J:) \\.It'\ TO Bt RtJt..t>i. 
(.b.~ 5t't-l 10 
BAG OD.' 

ACROSS 29 Norse god of 47 Jackie's second war spouse
1-mater 
31 R-V connection 48 Alan 5 Stare 
34 Grape seeds 57 Abolish 9 Concerns of trout 
35 Twenty quires 58 Infrequentfishermen 
36 Enoch's father 

59 Excessive14 Roulette bet 37 Alan so Stock15 Encompassed 
40-Bombeck, 

61 Muslim prince by author­62 Well, in Milan
16 Ship's lowest columnist deck 63 Pitches
41 S-curved 17 Pine or palm molding 
64 Golfers' gadgets 42 Pivot 65 Kind of ball or18 The-Ranger fall
43-Plaines, Ill. 

19 Lariat 44 Printer's
20 Alan direction 

DOWN
23 Suffix with 
45 Swinger at the 
depart 

plate 1 Formicary 24 Nectar inspector denizens
46 "Isn't-Pity?": 25 Esprit de corps Gershw1n song 2 Knowledge 
3 Bearing 
GARY LARSON 

22 S. American snake 25 Coupled 26 Pigment for Gainsborough 21 Rawhide thongs used in Africa 20 Looped handle 29 Doctrine 30 Levere! 31 Joan of Arc, e.g. 32 Touch of color 
SPELUNKER 

-.. 
33 Noted racing driver 35 Fashion 36 Small voucher 38 Jots 39 Series of links 44 Steps over rural fences 45 Thorny bushes 46 Habituate 47 Eagle's nest 
48 Bygone 49". walk­my parlor?": M. 
Howitt 50 Soon 51 Waste allowance 52 Renown 53 Newhart and 
Crosby 54 Level 55 City in Nev 56 Expanded 
JAY HOSLER 

STUOBNT UNION IICI'JU) 
r 
Sports
page 20 Monday, April23, 1990 
Anthony Johnson first Irish player selected in NFL Draft Grunhard, Aim, and Terrell join A.J. after being picked in second round 
By FRANK PASTOR was young. I'll do anything they 
"I'm very happy to be able to really positive and we left on a Associate Sports Editor ask, whatever they need." show people who pay attention good note. I knew they needed a Johnson, who was a tri-cap­~ to college football that I am center." 
As long as he continues to tain on the 1989 Irish squad, second-round caliber," said The Houston Oilers selected play football, fullback Anthony carried the ball 131 times last Grunhard from his Chicago defensive tackle Jeff Aim with Johnson may never leave the season for 515 yards and 11 home. "Kansas City's program the next pick in the draft. the state of Indiana. touchdowns. In his four years is similar to Notre Dame's be­41st overall. Aim, who received 
The Irish senior and South at Notre Dame, Johnson rushed cause they're both aggressive All-America honors in 1989, Bend resident was the first of 358 times for 1,512 yards and teams that stress the running had 133 tackles last season, in­four Notre Dame players se­32 touchdowns. game." cluding 61 unassisted. lected in the second round of Notre Dame head coach Lou Grunhard was told by the Opposing quarterbacks have Sunday's NFL draft, going to Holtz often referred to Johnson Super Bowl champion San continually struggled to throw the Indianapolis Colts as the as the most underrated player Francisco 49ers that he would over Aim's 6-7, 270-pound 36th overall pick. in the country. But Johnson's be their second-round pick if he frame, as evidenced by his 
In all, six Irish players were solid senior season earned him was still available by the time team-high three interceptions taken during the first day of honorable mention All-America Anthony Johnson they made their selection, the during the '88 championship the draft. honors and he was widely rec­56th overall. Kansas City first season. 
''I'm ecstatic," said Johnson. ognized as the top fullback 40th pick in the draft. With expressed interest in Grunhard Free safety Pat Terrell went "I didn't know if I would be available in the draft. Mike Webster nearing retire-at the Indianapolis Combine. to the Los Angeles Hams with taken on this selection or not. I Center Tim Grunhard, who ment and considering a career "I had a meeting with the di­the 49th pick overall. A Florida was hoping and praying I played tight guard for Notre in coaching, Grunhard should rector of player personnel, the native, Terrell looks forward to would be. Actually, the Colts Dame, was selected by the be able to step right in to an-general manager and the head 
see Draft I page 18
were my (favorite) team when I Kansas City Chiefs with the chor the Chiefs' offensive line. coach," said Grunhard. "It was 
Mirer named as starting Irish QB by Holtz 
By FRANK PASTOR the scrimmage. He was more scrimmage today and just pro­Associate Sports Editor concerned with putting the ball tect the ball." in the endzone against a stingy Raghib "!locket" Ismail was 
Exactly one week before the Irish defense. able to overcome the problems Blue-Gold game, where quar­"It (the starting assignment) on the offensive line to rush for terbacks Rick Mirer and Jake doesn't mean a whole lot right 51 yards on nine carries, a 5.7­Kelchner were expected to bat­now," said Mirer. "Hopefully we yard average. He scored on a tle for the starting quarterback can just move the ball more 37 -yard touchdown run which position, Notre Dame head consistently. Some things have just may have been his most ex­coach Lou Holtz named Mirer got to be improved on, but I citing yet. his No. 1 signalcaller following feel confident in our offense." Ismail took Mirer's handoff Saturday's intrasquad scrim­The announcement came on from the tailback slot, hit the mage in Notre Dame Stadium. the heels of the most lackluster line of scrimmage and leaped 
Mirer took every snap on offensive showing of the spring over a player while spinning Saturday after Kelchner season. Breakdowns in the of­away from cornerback Hod bruised his knee at Friday's fensive line allowed four quar­Smith. He sprinted toward the practice. He completed 12 of 24 terback sacks and three more sidelines with three defenders passes for 157 yards, including tackles-for-losses. in pursuit, spun back around to a 67-yard bomb to Ray Griggs. "This was a terrible day," the middle of the field and 
"Rick Mirer is our No. 1 Holtz said, already resuming cruised into the cndzone. quarterback regardless what his patented poor-mouthing Sophomore tailback Dorsey happens the rest of the spring," tactics. "It was the worst of­Levens continued his fine spring Holtz announced to a group of fensive performance I've seen by rushing for 63 yards on 12 reporters. "He's throwing the since I've been in coaching. If carries, keeping his spring av­ball a little bit more consis­we make a first down this year, erage above eight yards a tently, he's tough and he's had it will be because of a penalty. carry. more reps." "We don't have anything re­Senior fullback Ryan Mihalko 
Sophomore-to-be Mirer later sembling an offensive line, so gained 50 yards on 10 carries, 
revealed that he had not been you can't blame it on Rick. He 
told of Holtz's decision before was able to go the whole see Mirer I page 17 
Senior Bar, Gauchos among favorites 
who advance as Bookstore rages on 
.-
keep that in mind, we'll be victory as Tony Rice, Derrick 
By KEN TYSIAC okay." Johnson and Cedric Figaro Associate Sports Editor Gauchos also appear to be each scored five points. out there to win. After Pete "We played well, it was one of 
Several top teams reached the DiGiovanni scored nine points our better games," said Jim round of 64 as Bookstore to lead the team to a 21-12 win Dolan. "I think we shape up as Basketball XIX continued to over Drinks For All My Friends good as anybody else (in the rage across the Notre Dame in a game on Friday which was tournament). We are just out to campus this weekend. marred by rain, Gauchos run up and down the floor and 
Senior Bar capped a two­scored a 21-7 victory over Dr. hopefully win a few games as victory weekend with a 21-6 D. The Swami and Super Dave's well." triumph over Screaming Uglies Last Hurrah behind 10 points University President Rev. on Sunday. Although his team by Rob Vasquez. Edward Malloy's All The has waltzed through the first "We run the ball pretty well President's Men squad defeated couple of rounds, Senior Bar and we've played together quite its first challengers in the center Joe Hippler says he is a bit," says Gaucho Mike Toner. tournament on Friday after aware that the competition is "We knew we'd come in as an advancing by forfeit in round getting tougher. underdog, but we have a couple one. Fr. Malloy scored five 
"I think we are playing well of good interhall players, and points in the 21-11 victory over right now, but we still need to maybe we'll pull off a couple of Earl Dippold Tavern. improve. When it gets down to upsets down the road." Former Irish center Scott the final 64 and the final 32, "We want to go as far as we Paddock of Sweet Scotty P. and you know you're going to run can," adds teammate Tom the Dwarfs deserted his dwarf into good teams," Hippler says. O'Connell. "It would be nice if teammates for the second time 
Teamwork has played a vital we could beat a name team." in three games, but the dwarf role in Senior Bar's success up Although Gauchos isn't one of contingent managed to win 21­to this point. Hippler, Tim the most recognized names on 12 over 3rd Degree Burns. Phil Crawford, Ray Flannery and Ed campus, the team's balance and Hauen and Tom Eck led Sweet Cosgrove can all score both chemistry are two elements Scotty P. with seven and six inside and outside, while point which weigh in its favor. points respectively. guard Tony Dill distributes the Combine that with a well-run Only four HWA players ball effectively. fast break, and the Gauchos showed up for a game against 
"I think the most important pose a threat of which the top Raw Talent Friday. HWA could thing is that we're not selfish," seeds should be wary. have used that one player and a Hippler says. "All of our guys Adworks, last year's runner­couple more as well as Keith are smart and everybody up, also advanced to the round Robinson tallied seven points hustles. I think it's obvious that of 64 Sunday with a 21-12 and Raghib Ismail chipped in nobody's out there to score 21 triumph over Air Midget and 
I points all by themselves. We're Ground Crew. A balanced Bookstore teams were blessed by warm weather and sunshine in I just out there to win, and if we attack propelled Adworks to see Hoops I page 16 weekend action. ! 
I 
~ 













