

VOL. XXIII NO. 87 MONDAY , FEBRUARY 12, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
~f!!r.,..~?;,years in prison, Mandela is released 
(APl -Nelson Mandela walked • World reaction I page 5 through a prison gate to free­dom Sunday, setting set off • U.S. reaction 1 page 5 joyous celebrations and violent dashes as blacks nationwide 
welcomed their leader back • What next? I page 5 from 27 years in jail. "Comrades and fellow South the white-haired Mandela, who Africans. I greet you all in the looked much more an elder name of peace, democracy and statesman in his suit and tie frnedom for all." Mandel a told than a guerrilla leader. tens of thousands of cheering "Today, the majority of South supporters who thronged out­Africans, blar:k and white. rec­side City llall at twilight, many ognize that apartheid has no getting their first look at the future. It has to be ended by African National Congress our decisive mass action," he leader. said in a rousing half-hour But he emphatically reaf­speech frequently interrupted firnwd his r:ommitment to the by roars of "Viva!" ANC's guerrilla r:ampaign and "We have waited too long for railed for increasPd pressure to our freedom." 
Pnd white-minority domination Violence broke out about the -tlw sanw cause that resulted same time Mandela's motor­in his life sentence on charges cade arrived in Cape Town \ 
of plotting against the govern­from Victor Verster prison and 
.,,:;'

mPnt. liP also reiterated that dnlayed his speech. Police said a talks with thn government can­black lcJOter was shot to death not begin until it lifts the state by officers, and first aid work­4 
_--~­

of mnnrg~mcy. ers said more than 100 people "I stand herP before you not were injured when riot police as a prophet, but as a humble 
see MANDELA I page 4 sPrvant of you the people," said 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Sanchez and Smith went "It's a matter of interpreta­according to Smith. The table Kevin Craig has been penalized
News Writer 
through "all of the proper tion" of the by-laws on the Sen­tents are "a good way to reach for an advertisement that Dia­
Student body president and channels" in getting approval ate's part, Breslin said. out to the student body and ask logue at Notre Dame magazine vice president candidates Vinny for the table tents, Breslin said. Breslin and Smith said that for support," Smith said. "They ran in The Observer Friday en­Sanchez and Melissa Smith "We're not treating this as a the Senate should have stood are a traditional medium." dorsing Bettencourt's ticket. were told by the Student Senate violation against Vinny or behind the original decision of The table tents cost $15 to The ad violated a rule in the to remove table tents promot­Melissa," Loya said. "It's not the Election Committee. make, Smith said. The $15 is by-laws to the student body ing their tir:ket from the dining their fault." Loy a said that he Tom Rask, election committee part of a $125 spending limit constitution that prohibits paidhalls. -considered the table tents to be chairman, said that the prob­set by the Election Committee. advertisements by outside 
The Senate held an emergency posters. lem stems from the first elec­"This puts a little hitch into sources, according to Breslin. meeting Sunday after com­Sanchez and Smith obtained tion meeting. Rask told the the election," Breslin said. He Dialogue magazine originally plaints were filed by the tickets approval from the Election candidates that the Dining speculated that the closeness of wanted to endorse the ticket of of Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar, Committee, Breslin, student ac­Halls were "off-limits," but he the campaign race was a factor Bettencourt/Craig in one of and Sigi Loya and Raja Singh. tivities, and University Food never clarified whether that in the original filing of the­their own issues, but did not Sanr:hez and Smith had put up Services to put up the table meant only for posters. complaint. have enough time to print one, the table tents Sunday morning tents, Smith said. The official vote of the quo­"We have four strong candi­according to Matt Schlapp, edi­before brunch. Pasin said that the vote was rum was 7-6 in favor of re­dates," Breslin said. "It will be tor-in-chief of Dialogue. 
The official wording in the not to penalize Sanchez and moval of the table tents. Pasin, a close race, and people are Schlapp contacted Chris Don­by-laws to the student body Smith, but to correct the situa­Loya, and Sanchez, as voting looking at the rules." nelly, editor-in-chief of The Ob­constitution is: "Posters are not tion and make it fair for the members of the Senate, each "It's unfortunate that it had server, and paid for a half-page to be placed on or within dining other tickets. He had been un­voted in the decision, according to happen at the last minute," ad that ran in Friday's Ob­hall walls." according to Matt der the impression that the to Breslin. Smith said. server, endorsing Bettencourt. Breslin, current student body dining halls were "off-limits" to Candidates have used table In other election news, the 
see ELECTION I page 4 

president. cam ai nin . tents for the past two years, ticket of Mark Bettencourt and 
Anti-Apartheid group builds shantytown 
By CINDY PETRITES They were assembled last O'Donovan claimed that News Writer Thursday morning, with the though she received no re-approval from the Office of sponse from the Board of' 
Students from the Anti­Student Activities, to coincide Trustees concerning the shan­Apartheid Network constructed with the meeting of the Board tytown that their general reac­a shantytown on Fieldhouse of Trustees taking place that tion to the report was positive. Mall last Thursday to raise afternoon, said Checkett. "They were glad to see the stu­student awareness of apartheid At the Board meeting, Anti­dents informed," she said. and to protest the Board of Apartheid Network member The Board planned to vote on Trustees' stance on divestment Maeve O'Donovan presented a Friday, although the results are of holdings in South Africa. progress report to the Board not yet known, she said. 
One of the goals of the shan­regarding their 1986 statement South Bend media including tytown was "to remind stu­on divestment. Channels 16, 22, and 28 and the dents of the immediacy of the In 1986 the Board of South Bend Tribune covered the problem (of apartheid)," said Trustees pledged to divest of all shantytowns, interviewing John-Paul Checkett, president holdings in South Africa if the Checkett and O'Donovan. of the Anti-Apartheid Network. constructive engagement of "It became a real media 
Given students' isolation and companies was not working or event," said O'Donovan, who physical distance from the the conditions in South Africa was also pleased at the re­problem, he said, "it is easy for worsened. The South African sponse the shantytown had re­them to divorce themselves government declared a state of ceived from students. The from the issue." emergency one month after the Network also organized a 
"But, on the Notre Dame Board's decision, said prayer vigil at the shantytown campus, the issue goes beyond O'Donovan. and a march to the Center for divestment," he added. "The purpose of the shanty­Continuing Education to 
The "shantytown," three ply­town was not so much a report protest apartheid. wood structures spray-painted on the necessity of divestment In response to questions in red bearing the words, "Free as on the credibility of the about the release of African Mandela," "Du Lac Shaped Board of Trustees," said National Congres leader Nelson 
AP Pnoto 

Nelson Mandela and wife Winnie, walking hand in hand, punch the air on his release from Victor Verster prison, Cape Town, Sunday. The African National Congress leader had served over 27 years in detention. 
Controversy surrounds student body pres. elections 


Senior Molly Mahoney takes advantage of the new SafeWalk Your Tuition," and "End Checkett. "In 1986 they voted Mandela after 27 years of im­escort program. She is escorted by Freshman Lou Blaum, left, Apartheid," were meant to sim-to divest and four years later 
they still haven't kept their

and Freshman Pat Madden. ulate the shack homes of blacks see SHANTY I page 4 
promise."

......--------------------------.living in South Africa. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Election tainted by absurd rules 
Article I of the Student Body Constitution Bylaws, the "Official Election Hules" for the positions of Student Body President and 


Vice President con-Alison Cocks tains enough regula­tions to prevent can-Production Manager 
didates from unau---------­thorized breathing. 
The Bylaws regulate the amount of money candidates can spend on campaign materi­als. Fine. Nobody wants Norman Hockefeller buying his way into office. 
But it also regulates how each ticket spends its $125 allotment. 
If Joe Schmoe wants to blow his $125 on skywriting, let him. It's a good indication to voters of how he will allocate Student Government funds. 
Joe can't because Item 10 in Article I reads, "No skywriting, airplane banners or moving sound trucks are allowed." Item nine tells Joe he cannot use computer or "throw-away" paper, or handmade posters. 
The Election Committee apparently does not wish to foster initiative. They'd rather see four tickets with standard flyers. They wonder why the student body is lackadaisi­cal in its voting practices. 
Candidates who can actually manage to find a small loophole in the bylaws find their names are mud at an Emergency Top Secret Meeting of the Student Senate. 
Sanchez and Smith, for example, obeyed the rule against plaeing posters on the din­ing hall walls, and used table tents instead. Their idea was approved by the appropriate officials, yet they still faced the wrath of the Student Senate because they managed to get around one of the sacrosanct rules of the Constitution. 
They have respected fellow candidates throughout the campaign period, and they went through the appropriate channels to ensure their table tent placement was not in violation of the rules. 
Other candidates complairwd, however, and happened to be in a position to do something about it. 
This demonstrates bad sportsmanship on those candidates' parts, and also shows how foolish the election process has be­come. The Election Committee seems to have traded the hassle of answering post­election whining from losing candidates for headaches about whose approach follows ridiculous rules. 
Perhaps campaigners should be allowed to show what they can do in their cam­paigns, not after they are elected, when it's sometimes too late. 
Sanchez and Smith have to suffer this year, unfortunately. 
Author's note to the Election Committee: This column is in no way an endorsement of Sanchez and Smith, who should therefore not be subject to any fines or punishments. So there. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71  
Today's Staff:  
Produc11on Wendy Cunnigham  Viewpoint Dave Bruner  
Beth Peterson  News  Becky Pichler  
Kelley Tuthill  
Monica Yant  
Systllma  
Amalia Meier  
Accent  Dan Towers  
Colleen Cronin  
Cristina Ortiz Liz Havel  Spolts Steve Megargee  ~ Matt Gallagher  
Alison Cocks  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
with lows in the lower 30s and a 30 percent chance of light rain late. Highs in the upper 40s. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Violence continued in Addis "Hideko Ito-mother and lawyer. She'll do her Ababa, Ethiopia, as government best," is the slogan of the Socialist candidate who hopes troops and secessionist rebels battled to attract votes away from the scandal-wracked, male­for a fourth day Sunday for Ethiopia's dominated Liberal Democratic Party, which has governed vital Red Sea port of Massawa, state Japan for 34 years. Ito, running for the powerful lower radio said. The Sunday morning house of Parliament, is riding a wave of blossoming sup­broadcast by the government-con­port for female candidates -dubbed "Madonnas" be­
trolled station conflicted with an ear-­
cause of the departure they represent from postwar poli­lier claim by the Eritrean People's tics, an all-male enclave of pork-barreling and backroom Liberation Front that it had captured the eity. The gov­
deals. ernment broadcast did not directly deny the rebel claim but said fighting was continuing around the port, one of only two on Ethiopia's Red Sea coast. 


NATIONAL President Bush has turned down an invitati?n Defense Secretary Dick Cheney on sunday sliced to speak to the Sixth International Conference on AIDS m one day off a scheduled visit next week to the Phillipines San Francisco this June either live or on videotape, a after President Corazon Aquino said she would not meet White House spokeswoman said. "I think the president with him. Aquino, in a snub a week prior to Cheney's first has good reason for not coming," said Stephen Morin of visit to her nation as defense -secretary, announced Satur­the conference's community task force, ··neither the peo-day she'd refuse meet to him after expressing unhappi­ple of San Francisco nor the scientific community think ness over U.S. support for her government and negative much of his AIDS policies." At least 16 groups. including reports in the U.S. media about the effieaey of her gov-the International League of Red Cross have said they will ernment in light of a series of coup attempts. boycott the conference of 12,000 scientists and policy­makers unless the U.S. entrance restrictions are ended. Cleanup continued Sunday on Southern Califor­nia beaches smeared with globs of oil spilled from a
Six convicts escaped from a Joliet, 111. maximum­
tanker, but a 14-mile-long slick in the water may be im­
security prison early Sunday, apparently as a result of a 
possible to skim, the Coast Guard said. One-third of an 
"breach of security," Department of Corrections 
estimated 400,000 gallons of Alaskan crude spilled
spokesman Nic Howell said. The escapees, including three 
Wednesday still menaced the coast, but Coast Guard Capt. 
murderers, were considered extremely dangerous. They 
Jim Card said damage to beaches could have been worse. 
had to cut through bars on the segregation cells, break a 
But Chief Warrant Officer Hiek Meidt cautioned, "It's too 
window, cut through bars outside the window and cross a 
soon to declare a victory-there's 131,000 gallons of oil 
fence to get away. 
in the water." 
lt4DIANA 

The first black student body president of Purdue University's West Lafayette campus won in a landslide Hoosiers celebrated the freedom of South election this week. Tarrus Richardson of Bellwood, Ill., African black leader Nelson Mandela with church celebra­and his running mate, Tina Mattingly of Greenfield, Ind., tions Sunday. About 550 people celebrated Sunday at the received 70 percent of the votes in Wednesday's election, New Hope Baptist Church in Evansville, said the Rev. W. which Richardson said was not based on race. "We H. Brown Jr. "People danced in the aisles," Brown said. strived for a diversified campaign touching as many stu­"We did the best we could to have a kindred spirit with dents as possible." the people of South Africa," Brown said. 
OF INTEREST MARKET UPDATE 
See the world with Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students who just returned from Japan, 
Volume in shares

India, China, and Europe. They will be sharing their experiences with slides and videotapes. 
146.91 Million Steapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's, 4 
p.m. today. 
NYSE Index 184.39 'I} 0.30 S&P Composite /\. 333.62 1.f 0.66 Dow Jones Industrials 2648.20 'I} 3.83 
Precious Metals 
Gold {!! $2.60 to $418.70/ oz. 
Silver{!! 7.8¢ to $5.273 I oz. 
Source: AP 

... ----.. -.. ---• ----... -.. I. -... --._---......... ·-...... :_ ... • ­
ALMANAC 

On February 12: e In 1809: Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of the United States, was born in a log eabin in what is now Larue County, 
Ky. e In 1554: Lady Jane Grey, who had been queen of England for nine days, was beheaded after being charged with trea­son. e In 1733: English colonists led by James Oglethorpe landed at Savannah, Ga. e In 1870: Women in the Utah Territory were granted the right to vote. e In 1909: The National As­sociation for the Advancement of Colored People, America's oldest civil rights organization, 
• ·was·founded.---------· 
Monday, February 12, 1990 Tho Ob.;:,~rvor 
a o 3 

Baker offers Romania $80 million in food aid Sunday 
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) 
-U.S. Secretary of State 
James Baker offered Romania 
$80 million in food aid on a 
brief visit to Bucharest Sunday 
morning, but told the country's 
interim leaders that the United 
States expects continued 
movement toward democracy. 
"We want to do our part to 
assist the transition to political 
pluralism and a free market 
economy," Baker said after 
meeting with interim President 
Ion Iliescu and Premier Petre 
Roman. 
Baker is the highest-ranking 
American official to visit Ro­
mania since December's revolu­
tion which toppled Communist 
dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. 
His visit came amid contro­
versy over the new Provisional 
Council of National Unity, 
which will run the country until 
elections on May 20 and in­
cludes opposition parties for 
the first time. 
Many of the 18 party leaders 
who met Baker said they told 
him the old National Salvation 
Front Council. which took 
power during the revolution, 
has kept its grip on power in 
the new council. Several said 
the Front is a guise for the old 
Communist Party. 
Baker said he told Iliescu and 
Roman that "the betterment of 
relations of the United States 
with Romania will depend on 
fully free, fair elections and the 
respect for human rights and 
the rights of minorities." 
Terming the changes since 
the overthrow of Ceausescu "a 
reform movement that clearly I 
think we have to applaud," 
Baker told reporters after 
meeting with the officials that 
his visit was intended "to en­
courage the continuation of the 
process of reform." 
"It's very important to the 
United States that the commit­
ment to reform towards 
democracy is expressed in the 
conduct of fully free and fair 
elections," said Baker. 
The U.S. official announced the humanitarian aid package at a meeting with leaders of 18 parties and four unions at the residence of U.S. Ambassador Alan Green Jr. 
"I was pleased, in the meeting I had with the president and the prime minister, to say that we're prepared to make avail­able to Romania, on highly con­cessionary terms, $80 million in food assistance," he said. 
A State Department official said the assistance would in­clude 500,000 metric tons of feed grain and 7,500 tons of butter. 
Asked by reporters whether the United States would restore Romania's favored-nation trade status, Baker said: "We are re-examining now our posi­tion, just as we are re-examin­ing it with respect to some other countries in Eastern Eu­rope. 
"Whether we move towards that depends on ... continued movement towards free and fair elections, openness, free­dom and democracy," he said. 
Baker said Romanian officials assured him "they are committed to fully free and fair elections." 
Roman said after his meeting with Baker that he viewed the visit "as the beginning of a new relationship on a new basis, taking into account the new democracy (in Romania)." 
"From now on we can speak of American aid as not just humanitarian, I mean aid to rebuild," Roman added. 
Baker made several appear­ances outside the ambassador's residence, one with ethnic Hun­garian priest Laszlo Toekes by his side. The authorities' efforts to remove Toekes from his home in the western Romanian city of Timisoara sparked December's revolution. 
"Mr. Tokes, through the brave example that he set for freedom of religion and for democracy, really served as the catalyst for the reform effort that we see taking place in Ro­mania," Baker said. 
"We've been talking with the reverend about the importance of respecting the rights of mi­norities in America and the im­portance of freedom of reli­gion." 

Pigskin pride 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 

Holy ~ross Hall takes on Keenan Hall in Sunday's Hog Bowl. The event, sponsored by Holy Cross, was a sect1on football tournament benefitting homeless children in South Bend. 

Students perform first c:lid service 
By LIZ HOLTZ News Staff 

Last fall, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's branch of the American Red Cross was reor­ganized to form the First Aid Service Team (FAST). 
FAST is composed of stu­dents, faculty and staff Red Cross volunteers that serve the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community with medical ser­vices and first aid. 
They have covered most events on campus for the past seven years, which included ac­tivities ranging from non-var­sity athletics to concerts at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Joanne Barrington, a staff member of FAST said, "They are an outstanding group of people. FAST covers over six hundred events a year." 
"The group meets at least once a semester for seminars and training," said Barrington. In January, a sports injury seminar was held for members of FAST. 
Training and recertification are done periodically to keep the members ready for any emergency. 
The time donated by the stu­dents is strictly on a volunteer basis. FAST consists of ap­proximately thirty five mem­bers. "The students volunteer all kinds of hours to supply the community with adequate med­ical services," said Barrington. 
This organization plays a vi­tal role for the University. Patty Weed, the student coordinator said, "We work very closely with security. If an injury re­quires a hospital visit, security provides the necessary assis­tance." 
"It is a great way to get in­volved and see all kinds of events. We even covered the ROTC tournament this week­end," said Weed. 
"Members have had standard first aid and adult CPR, but we can get any person interested together with a charter member to work with them and get them into a standard first aid class," said Weed. 
Barrington said, "Anyone in­terested in providing assistance to others can be in this group. The group is composed mostly of students, however the faculty and staff are welcome to join." 
"This organization is one of the most used and least recog­nized on campus. We are at ev­erything from interhall games to varsity football games," said Barrington. 

N.A'TY OFFICER Youare'lomorrow.
ftl' You are the Navy. 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
News Editor  Advertising Manager  
Sports Editor  Ad Design Manager  
Accent Editor  Production Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  OTSManager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Controller  
Photo Editor  Art Director  
Systems Manager  

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to A1ison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 
Applications are still being accepted for the ·following position: 
Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be 
submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 

----------~-~--­
Mandela is free 
page 4 Monday, February 12, 1990 
Nelson Mandela 
TIMELINE 

Born July 18, 1918 1940 Expelled from college for participating in a student strike; completes degree by mail. 1944 Helps form the Youth League of the African National Congress (ANC); later becomes president. June 26, '52 Breaks curfew laws with 51 others to start Defiance Campaign. Dec. '52 Charged under the Suppression of Communism Act; receives suspended sentence and is prohibited from attending meetings or leaving Johannesburg. Dec. 6, '56 Mandala is among 156 political leaders arrested and charged with high treason: they are all acquitted. June '58 Marries Winnie Madikizela after divorcing his first wife. Mar. 21 1 '60 Sixty-nine black protesters are killed by police in Sharpeville; a state of emergency is declared and the ANC is outlawed. May '61 Working from underground, Mandala leads an effort to organize a national stay-at-home strike on May 29-31. Jan. '62 Makes appearance at Pan-African Freedom Movement Conference in Ethiopia; travels to Algeria for guerrilla training and to London to meet leftist politicians. Aug. 5, '62 Charged with incitement and leaving the country illegally when he returns to South Africa; receives a five-year term. July 11 1 '63 While Mandala is imprisoned, police raid ANC headquarters seizing documents outlining guerrilla campaign; Mandala and seven others are tried on charges of sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government. June '64 Mandala and seven others are sentenced to life in prison. June 13, '80 An international "Free Mandala" campaign culminates with 
of  Victor  Verster  prison  in  
Paarl,  35  miles  from  Cape  
Town.  

a call for his release by the U.N. Security Council. May 12, '84 Allowed a contact visit with his wife, the first since jailed. Jan. 31 1 '85 Pres. P.W. Botha offers to free Mandala if he renounces 
violence: Mandala refuses until the government takes the initiative in dismantling apartheid and granting full political rights to blacks. 
Aug. 12, '88 Mandala is hospitalized for tuberculosis. May 17, '89 Receives his bachelor of laws degree earned through correspondence study with the University of South Africa. Feb. 2, '90 Pres. de Klerk declares that the ANC is now legal and that Mandala will soon be freed unconditionally. Feb. 11, '90 Mandala is freed after 27 years in prison; he addresses a crowd in Cape Town hours later, saying that the conditions that led the ANC's policy of armed struggle 






Shanty 
continued from page 1 

prisonnwnt. Checkett said that he is definihdy pleased, but added that it is equally impor­tant to remember that Man­dela's rnlease does not end the problem of apartheid. 
"It is the imposing of eco­nomic sanctions that has re­sulted in the current improve­ments of the situation in South t\frica." said Checkett, "and they must continue in order to 
ond apa<the.and fo' aiL" 
Remember. Only you can prevent forest fires. 
against the government still exist. 
APIT. Dean Caple. G. Vilato 
HAIL TOTHE DUCHESS! Happy 21 Linda. Love, 

Jen, Patty, Kathy Amy, Judy, Sport, Barb, Marisa, &Erin 
·:.:·.:·.:·...·.:·.::.:·.::,.··..-·.:·.:·.:·..-·.:..:...:..:...:..::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.:··.:·.::.:·.::..··.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::..··.::..·..:....·..::.:·.::.:·.::.:-.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::.:·.::..·..... ··.·:.: 

)::: JPW registration packets (tickets a .__ :>:: calendar of events) can be picked up:::::::: 
today and tomorrow in the Dooley Room in LaFortune between 2 • IOpm  ·_.·­·--::-­ 
QUESTIONS? call 239 -6028 Mon • Thurs 7 -9 pm or Steve X3131  

::-:-::-_.-.-..-:.-:<--:-:_.·:-:_.·:-::.-:-.:--:·.\·::.-:-:_.-:-:_.·:-:.-·_·..-.-_·._-.-·..-_.-:-:_.-:-:_.-:-:.-:-:.-:-:.-:-:_.-:-:_.-:-:_.-:-:_.·:-:_.-:-:.-:-:.-:-:_.·:-:_.·:-:_.-:-:_.·:<---·-:_.·:-:_.-:-:_.-:-:_.-:-:_.-.-::-::::: 
group. police said 12 blacks were killed in factional fighting


Mandela 
Sunday. It was a harsh re­
continued from page 1 

minder of the bitter feuds in­fired shotguns after groups of volving black factions who dis­black youths smashed shop agree on the best way to fight windows in the city center. for equality. 
Some youths retaliated by Elsewhere, hundreds of thou­hurling bottles at the officers. sands of blacks danced and Hundreds of terrified people jogged through the streets of waiting to hear Mandela ran big cities and impoverished for cover as police fired blasts townships, rejoicing at Man­of shotgun pellets. deJa's freedom. 
Clashes between police and "Very good news, very good celebrating blacks were re­news," President Bush said ported in at least two other ar­after Mandela's release. Bush eas, including the tribal home­said he telephoned Mandela, land of Ciskei, where hospital told him all Americans "were officials said police shot three rejoicing at his release" and in­people to death and wounded vited him to the White House. 
20. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, 
In Natal Province, where ANC speaking at a church service supporters have been feuding outside Cape Town shortly be­with a more conservative black _ fore Mandela was released, 

Election 
continued from page 1 

Each candidate is responsible for all information pertaining to their campaign, according to Rask. 
"I realized that it was a rule violation," Bettencourt said. He said he did everything possible to stop the ad from being pub­lished. 
"I was flattered to be en­dorsed," he said. "We were caught in the middle. We were the victims of something out of our control." 
"I saw it as an endorsement. not an advertisement," said Donnelly. 
Donnelly expressed concern over the fact that Bettencourt and Craig were penalized for something out of their control. 
Rask said that he presented Schlapp with two options on Wednesday. He could put a free ad in The Observer or he could publish an issue of Dialogue containing the endorsement by Friday. Anything outside of these two options, Rask said, 
robab " result in a commended the South African government for making a "courageous step" but said "the pillars of apartheid remain in place." 
A thunderous cheer went up as the man who was the world's most famous prisoner walked hand-in-hand with his wife, Winnie. through the gate 
Under a brilliant blue sky, the Mandelas gave clenched-fist salutes to the hundreds of sup­porters who had waited for hours outsid(~. many of them waving green, gold and black ANC flags and wearing T-shirts emblazoned with a youthful im­age of Mandela. 
line on Bettencourt. 
Schlapp said that Donnelly told him later in the week that it would be all right to run the ad. Schlapp also stated that the Election Committee has no con­trol over independent publica­tions. 
The fine, 20 per cent of the $125, was a "slap on the wrist," Rask said. This lenience was due to the fact that Betten­court told the Election Commit­tee that he had made every ef­fort to prevent publication of the ad. 
"The problem lies with Dia­logue," Rask said. "It was an error of judgement on Schlapp's part for not contact­ing election officials" about the ad. 

It would have been permissi­ble if Bettencourt had used part of the $125 spending limit to place an ad. Breslin said. 
Rask said that the decision to impose the line did depend on what the ad looked like and what it said. lie said that half­page ad cost $150. 
Hask said that the campaign­ing rules are "old and out" dated" and that they have "created problems." 
lie also stressed that in both cases. the candidates them­selves were not at fault. 

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR 7WO TERMS IN 



OXFORD 
Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is Nar a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 mJntmum index in major required. 
An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for students with mlnimum indexes of 
2.7. Students will have social and athletic lights in an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less. 
INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON 
WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior­level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced Journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring and Summer). 
The Washington 
International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. 
Suite 450

WRSC 
Washington, D.C. 20002 
EOIAA 
(202) 547-3275 

......______________________. 
Mandela is free 

Monday, February 12, 1990 pa~e-5 
Bush telephones Mandela, invites him to White House 
LONDON (AP) -Nelson Mandela's emergence Sunday from nearly three decades in prison brought praise from world leaders. but the interna­tional rejoicing was tempered by appeals for swifter progress toward ending apartheid. 
As Mandela, 71, walked from the grounds of his prison out­side Cape Town into crowds of supporters who had cam­paigned ceaselessly for his re­lease, the African National Congress welcomed him "to the warm embrace of our people and the national liberation movement." 
President Bush said he tele­phoned Mandela, told him all Americans "were rejoicing at his release" and invited him to the White I louse. 
"I stated to him our desire to see a peaceful evolution to­wards a totally racially free South Africa, a society without prejudice, a society of total freedom," Bush told reporters in the Rose Garden. 
In Atlanta, Coretta Scott King. widow of slain U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., said she was overjoyed by the release of Mandela, "who has shown us the tn~mendous power of unearned suffering for a just cause." 
SpPcial church services were scheduled in many U.S. cities. India's Prime Minister V.P. 

Singh called Mandela a "valiant soldier of independence, justice and equality," and French Premier Michel Rocard invited him to visit Paris. 
Gabon's chief of state urged other African nations to restore diplomatic ties with South Africa, and Britain said it was time to reconsider international sanctions. 
Anti-apartheid campaigners took to the streets to celebrate, including thousands who thronged to London's Trafalgar Square, singing, dancing and waving flags of the newly legal­ized ANC. 
Mandela's release provided a "surge of hope" that should be harnessed to open talks be­tween the government and the black majority, British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said. Hurd's deputy, Foreign Minister William Waldegrave, called Mandela "a leader of real stature to represent the Africans who can enter into di­alogue." 
Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda called for the ANC to suspend guerrilla actions in South Africa but to maintain its military capability in case of vi­olence by right-wing extrem­ists. 


U.S. applause Mandela's release­
(AP)--Churchgoers danced in 
Indiana and Seattle's mayor proclaimed Nelson Mandela · Day in his city on Sunday as 
Americans rejoiced in South 
Africa's release of the long-im­
prisoned black leader. 

"It was a great celebration. 
People danced in the aisles, and 
we did our best to have a kin­
dred spirit with the people of 
South Africa," said the Rev. 
W.R. Brown Jr. of the New Hope Baptist Church in Evansville, Ind. "We had a mixed congregation. Some of our white brothers came to eel­ebrate with us." 
C h u r c h s e r vi c e s commemorating Mandela's walk to freedom also were scheduled in San Francisco and Oakland, Calif., and Seattle, where Mayor Norm Rice's proclamation honored the freed African National Congress leader. 
"This is only the first step, a little step, and we should not forget this," said Mandela's daughter Makaziwe Mandela­Amuah. "The battle is not over. It's only starting at a renewed, higher level." She spoke in Amherst, Mass., where she is attending college. 
At Shiloh Baptist Church in Washington, D.C., the Rev. Henry Gregory III said his an­nouncement of Mandela's re­lease was greeted with pro­longed applause. He then preached a sermon citing Man­dela titled, "Standing for the Right." 
In Atlanta, Coretta Scott King, widow of slain U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., said she was overjoyed by the release of Mandela, "who has shown us the tremendous power of unearned suffering for a just cause." 
"I sincerely hope that the government and the anti-apartheid movement will con­tinue to embrace the non-vio­lent spirit in their negotiations 
as they seek a multi-radal democracy based on one per­son, one vote," Mrs. King said in a statement. Also in Atlanta, the Rev. Joseph Lowery, head of the 
Southern Christian Leadership Conference, interrupted his ser­vice at Cascade United 
Methodist Church to offer a prayer for Mandela. 
"The crumbling of the walls in Eastern Europe have re­moved from South Africa the principal argument that if they cave in to the ANC, they would turn the country over to com­munists," Lowery said. "What happened in Hungary, Poland and East Germany disproves that." 
In New York City, Karen Daughtry, founder of an anti-apartheid organization of sev­era) hundred black American women, said Mandela's release does not mean the end of apartheid 

Experts examine the future of S. Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Once the eupho­ria over Nelson Mandela's re­lease dies down, South Africa will still face the enormous challenge of ending its cen­turies-old racial divisions and building a new nation. 
Black and white leaders say a major era in the country's his­tory is coming to an end with the impending demise of white­minority rule. But the future is foreboding, they warn, with many obstacles and the threat of conflict ahead. 
OPEN Tua. -Sat. 

5:00pm TksXALABA 

ExceUent lndf.an Culslne 
Jt.l:ttRP.AT\OHS DtSUED 1709 SOV'TK !OlD .API:. 

NEWS ANALYSIS 
South Africans must peace­fully solve the country's prob­lems and find a way to live to­gether in equality after 40 years of apartheid, leaders say. But the white government and its opponents appear to be far apart, with whites insisting on a special role in the future de­spite black objections. 
"Now there can be no going back. Irreversibly, South Africa 





CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 
Come to the cheerleading informational meeting 
FEBRUARY 21st 
7:00pm in the Auditorium next to the Football office in the JACC. 
FULL SERVICE FLORIST  
Balloon  Plants  Bouquets  
Bouquets  Corsages  Arrangement  
Dish Gardens  Boutonnieres  Fresh and Sil  

r----------------------~


11 0°/o OFF CASH AND CARRVI L with SMC or NO student ID I 
'DaeQ-oeeiiiiJ',.... Soutla of Ualvenlty P..-11: J11aU Mlahawaka. m4GM~ 


-----------------------· 
277-1291 5901 Grape Rd. 
has been placed on the path to 
its new future," The Sunday 
Times said in an editorial re­
flecting the views of a growing 
number of South Africans. 
While the search for peace is 
likely to be long and difficult, 
changes that would have been 
unthinkable even a year or two 
ago are already taking place. 
President F.W. de Klerk's de­
cision to free Mandela and end 
bans on black opposition 
groups after years of armed 
conflict stunned many whites 
and blacks. He pledged to find 
"a new dispensation" that 
would end the exclusion of the 
country's 28 million blacks 
from political power. 
De Klerk says he opposes 
black majority rule and that a 
new constitution must include 
protection for "group rights" 
to ensure whites are not 
swamped in a future demo­
cratic state. The government 
says it will also retain, for now, 
such apartheid legislation as 
laws segregating residential 
districts. 
While the government declines 
to outline its position in talks 
on a future constitution, governing National Party offi­cials say they favor splitting the country into a series of racially based, semi-independent can­tons or counties. 
The cantons would be united under a federation that would oversee economic cooperation and other national issues. 
Critics reject such plans as "apartheid in another guise" and the ANC and other opposi­tion groups say they will accept nothing less than total democ­racy. 
Mandela has indicated he will not bend on his insistence on equal rights. 

The dead line for signing up for insurance (Parker & Parker), is Friday, February 16, 1990. You may apply at the Uniuersity Health Center's Insurance Office. 

(EDUOHIIMU.S. 2!) (219) 271-0115 
to "dis" you on your 19th Birthday, so here's a little aduic:e: "Eat ltl" You loue us, Agnes, Andrea & Mary 

Get ready for Spring Break 

FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR A VERY UMITED nME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 

FOR DETAILS ... 
stop in to see our salon. or call us at ... 

272-7653 
University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln. 


 Chinese, Vietnamese and  
American Food  
Fresh Ingredients  6329 University Commons  
No Mass Productions  South Bend IN  
272-6702  







Communist economies face troubled future 
page 6 Monday, February 12, 1990 
Soviet economy 
.


worsen1ng 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Com­munist Party decision Wednes­day to relinquish its power monopoly meets one demand of disgruntled citizens, but takes only a step toward relieving the main grievance -an economy slipping from chaos to catas­trophe. 
The decision attacks the most visible targets: middle-level party officials who have long been under pressure from Mikhail Gorbachev and now feel heat from bnlow. 
Changing the Stalinist struc­turn that producnd those lead­ers will take longer. The changes will depend on Gor­bachev's success in attracting new people not encumbered by ideological baggage that limits their willingness to innovate, and their ability to gain the people's confidence. 
Gorbachev is gambling he can find the right people in the Communist Party and keep them there. 
llis risk is that the apparatus now apparently on its way out has so damaged the party's credibility that the peoplH he needs will turn to alternative movements and parties given 

Communism's Vanishing Act 
The Soviet Union has joined its six Warsaw Pact allies in embracing the multiparty system. Old-style Communist one-party 
states have all but disappeared from Europe. Hardline regimes have been replaced by reformers and non-communists. 
TIMELINE 
1989 AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC. JAN. '90 FEB. 
Poland L___:__] D First non-communist government -since World War II takes power 
Hungary ~~ ·~ Communist party disbands and 
L_jL.L__
______I becomes Socialist party 
East Germany ~~Communists' monopoly on powerL....::....J abolished by Parliament; 
LJ 
Hardliner Erich Berlin Wall leadership resigns Honecker resigns opened Bulgaria 
Parliament votes to abolish 
Hardliner Todor Zhivkov resigns Communist Party 
Czechoslovakia ~~~Communists' monopoly on power ~ abolished; new coalition with Hardliner Milos Jakes non-communists takes power and his cabinet resign Romania Popular revolt drives hardliner 
I[] 

Nicolae Ceausescu from power 
Soviet Union ,_..,-------------~ Communist Party ~ Y ~ officials agree to Gorbachev, on visit to Lithuania, drops r President Mikhail s. his opposition to multiparty system Gorbachev's platform calling for abolition of the party's constitutional guarantee of power 

Hardline Moderate Reformist 
AP 
People drain cripples East German industry 
BONN, West Germany (AP)­ Germany, which is finding it  
The deteriorating condition of  hard to absorb hundreds of  
the East German economy,  thousands of East Germans,  
crippled by a daily drain of  many of them craftsmen, who  
1,800 people leaving for the  already have fled seeking a bet­ 
West, has heightened concern  ter life.  
among officials but both Ger­ Kohl on Wednesday formed a  
man governments denied Fri­ Cabinet committee charged  
day that collapse is imminent.  with working out unification of  
A top official in Chancellor  the two German states, includ­ 
Helmut Kohl's government,  ing immediate efforts to make  
speaking privately, said earlier  the West German mark the  
Friday the decline fueled by  common currnncy in an effort  
worker exodus, widespread  to stabilize East Germany's  
strikes and high absenteeism at  .  economy. The East German  
many industrial sites has accel­ currency is virtually worthless  
erated to the point that  outside the country.  
"insolvency could be within a  Since the October ouster of  
few days."  hard-line Communist leader  
Kohl will discuss the need for  Erich llonecker and the  
immediate aid in the "billions of  November opening of the Berlin  
marks" (dollars) for East  Wall. reunification has become  
German neighbors during his  a major issue of debate. West  
weekend visit to Moscow, said  Germany, with 61 million resi­ 
the senior official.  dents, has tried to dismiss fears  
But Bonn government  that a single Germany would  
spokesman Hans Klein issued a  endanger the rest of Europe.  
statement later in the day say­ In an address in the East  
ing Bonn was not officially pre­ German city of Potsdam, West  
dicting an East German col­ German Fornign Minister Hans­ 
lapse.  Dietrich Genscher proposed the  
"The federal government is  two German states jointly agree  
not of the opinion that East  to issue border guarantees to  
Germany in the next days will  their neighbors and renounce  
be insolvent," Klein said, but  possession of atomic weapons  
noted that some individual  as a prelude to unity.  
leaders "fear such extreme  The Communist officials still  
possibilities."  running the East German gov­ 
A spokesman for East Ger­ ernment have reacted coolly to  
many's Communist government  Kohl's currency union offer, as  

of Premier Hans Modrow de­it hinges on wholesale adoptionthe green light by the Central now is the position of our cadre promising to be a struggle nied the nation of 16 million of market economics.
Committee decision. at the center and localities," between reformers and residents is in such dire cir­But East German EconomicsPolitburo mtlmber Alexander and he indicated changes at the conservatives, citizens in a few cumstances. Minister Christa Luft said Mod­Yakovlev, Gorbachev's most top also were coming. large cities took their "As long as the Modrow gov­row would discuss the proposalpowerful adviser in the party's "It is necessary to realign frustrations out on local ernment exists, East Germany when he visits Bonn next week. 
ruling body, told a news con­forces in the upper echelons of leaders. 
will remain solvent," Bundesbank President Karlference Wednesday the Central power in order to give more Popular protests caused party spokesman Wolfgang Meyer Otto Poehl met with reportersCommittee meeting dynamism to perestroika pro­officials to quit in four large told reporters in East Berlin. earlier Friday and emphasizedrepresented a "crucial and cesses and ensure more firmly cities of the Volga region, the The senior Kohl official also the positive aspects of monetaryhistoric" moment for the Soviet their irreversibility," he said. Ural Mountains and the said East Germany's first-ever union, although he had saidUnion. Next week, the Supreme So­Ukraine. 
free elections, set for March 18, aftnr an East Berlin visit threeThe economic crisis, charac­viet parliament will consider On Wednesday, activists re­are threatened by the economic days earlier that it was far tooterized by a huge budget laws on ownership of land and ported a similar protest in disaster. early to introduce harddeficit, inflation, a worthless other property, taxation and Donetsk, a Ukrainian coal­"Certain state offices don't currency to East Germany. 
currnncy and empty store other issues. Although the laws mining center, and said another exist any more. There are those Economic union with Eastshelvns, got worse in 1989. have been discussed for was scheduled for the weekend in East Germany who doubt Germany will mean major sac­Prnsident Gorbachev, ad­months, they remain vaguely at Saratov in the Volga region. 
that the March election date rifices for both populations,
dressing the Central Committee worded and could be liberally Vitaly Korotich, a popular can even be reached,'' the offi­Poehl acknowledged. But heon Monday, said the crisis had interpreted by local officials if reformist editor, told thousands cial said. "The situation cannot pointed to West Germans'not reached bottom and the key the leadership wants it that of people who gathered near 
be assessed dramatically prosperity and glowing eco­economic questions now in­way. the Kremlin on Sunday they 
enough." nomic forecasts in arguing thatvolved personnel. In recent weeks, with the should not have to live so An accelerated decline would Bonn could afford such aIn relieving food shortages, Central Committee plenum poorly in the future. 
likely send more fleeing to West bailout.
he said, "the crux of the matter 




Lotteries: The ticket for avoiding a look in the mirror 
Governments love -----------­to authorize casinos, New Jersey, did so with the heavy population bought at least one lottery ticket last year, them. Moralists hate Louis Rukeyser reservations, and palpable reluctance, of a girl who investing $18.5 billion-and getting about half that them. People enjoy Tribune Media Services halfheartedly decides to let some unloved guy kiss her, back in prizes. them. You should avoid comforting herself that she's not really kissing his back. Around the world, as around the country, the moral them. You probably won't. And then there are the lotteries. Until 1964, when objections to gambling have gone down in inverse 
We are talking, folks, about lotteries-one of the most tax-hating New Hampshire found a new way to "live proportion to the steady rise in taxes. As Hobert enduring symbols of America's refusal to come to terms free or die," lotteries were illegal in every state. Now Mullane, the astute chairman of Bally Manufacturing with its true economic self. they operate in 32 of the 50. And, according to a report Corp., the globe's leading supplier of lottery products, 
llistorieally, Americans officially regarded gambling prepared exclusively for this column, more than 5,500 services and instant tickets (3 billion annually), put it to as one of the devil's basest temptations, to be shunned individuals have cashed in $1 lottery tickets for $1 me, "Lotteries with instant winners are sweeping the by all right-thinking people and their duly elected million or more each. No wonder it remains the ulti­world. The concept of an immediate payoff has lawmakers. Unofficially, we gambled like crazy. mate "get rich quick" dream of the masses. significantly increased sales in every country in which 
We were from the start a nation of risk-takers, first Last year alone, nearly 1,000 bettors achieved it has been introduced." in crossing dangerous seas to an unproved land, then theoretical millionaire status. (The lottery payoffs in 
in boldly challenging the might of the century's fact are generally spread over a 21-year period, And why not? In an age that demands instant dominant power. Lotteries were a part of that culture, making their actual present value less than satisfaction, the prospect-however faint-of hitting it too-helping, for example, to build some of our advertised-and taxes are automatically deducted.) big without pain or delay has brought lofty profits to snootiest universities. Thomas Jefferson, perhaps the Some did considerably better, including a $115 million those who supplied the increasingly legal need. (Belly most universally admired intellectual this country has winner in Pennsylvania and a $61 million payoff in has roughly half the instant ticket printing contracts; produced, set the tone when he praised lotteries as a California. the rest divided among Control Data, General "tax ... laid on the willing only." Since only an estimated 40,000 Americans get to Instrument, Webcraft and GTECH.) And given 
But then the puritan tradition took over, and report an annual income of $1 million or higher politicians' nonstop hunger for new revenue, few seem gambling of all sorts became legally anathema. Casinos through more traditional means, the temptation to play likely to repeal a source that has brought the states were operated only by "the mob"; lotteries were "the the lottery is clearly there. Never mind that lotteries more than $40 billion since 1964. numbers game," penny ante for slum-dwellers. Even are said to exploit the country's least sophisticated The final irony is that a political system that after Nevada demonstrated that Americans would flock citizens; never mind that the real odds are ludicrously cheerfully rakes in the revenues from lotteries to legal games of chance (something that every church worse than at any self-respecting racetrack or casino. continues to penalize with equal fervor the rewards of 
bingo operator could have told us), the only other state Industry experts estimate that nearly half the U.S. more productive risk-taking. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~~.. 



Viewpoint
Monday, February 12, 1990 page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .......... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ...... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...Theresa Kelly Production Manager ..... Airson Cocks Accent Editor John Blasr Systems Mgr....Bernard Brennrnkmeyer Photo Editor .. Errc Barley OTS Director . . ...... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor ...... Chrrstrne Grll Controller... Anne Lindner 
The Observer rs the rndependent newspaper published by the students of the Unrversr­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sarnt Mary's College. It does not necessarrly reflect the pol­rcres of the admrnrstratron of erther rnstrtution The news rs reported as accurately and ob­Jectrvely as possrble Unsrgned edrtorrals represent the oprnron of the maJority of the lollowrng Edrtor-rn-Chref. Managrng Edrtor. Executrve News Editor. Vrewpornt Editor. Sports Edrtor. Accent Edrtor. Photo Edrtor. Sarnt Mary's Editor Commentarres. letters. and the lnsrde Column present the vrews of !herr authors. Column space rs available to all members of the communrty and lhe free expressron of varyrng oprnrons on campus. through letters. rs encouraged 

Arguments for legalizing drugs come up short 
By Christopher Coury 
I low long must the ridiculous legalization debate continue? ExpPrts who deal daily with the war against drugs have repcmt­edly argued that such a policy would be a catastrophic mis­take. yet some people still be­lieve that this issue is ripe for discussion. Plain and simple, legalization is not the answer to our drug problem. 
Although the arguments fa­voring legalization appear compelling at face value, when examined they show their short-sightedness. Proponents fail to acknowledge that drugs are more potent, harmful. and addictive than alcohol. 
Moreover, they also neglect thn fact that after Prohibition was repealed, more people used aleohol in American society. So if drugs were legalized. there would be an increased number of people who used drugs, and consequently. more people who became addicted to them. Le­galization would result in an unprecedented need for sub­stance-abuse treatment facili­ties on a long-term basis. 
According to those in favor of legalization, this cost could be met by taxes on drugs and a re-allocation of the current $6 billion being spent on supply­reduction programs, such as border patrols. However, this argument fails to account for the fact that the FDA would never legalize the most potent, addictive and harmful drugs. 

Nevertheless, the human de­sire of experimentation would create a large market for those harder drugs. Thus, the black­market would continue to exist even if some drugs were legal­ized. Moreover, the traffickers for these drugs would have a much easier time smuggling than they do today, because no one could justify spending $6 billion on border patrol and drug interdiction programs in a society in which drugs are le­gal. In fact, the only changes which legalization would brin!! would be that more people would use (and abuse) drugs, and people who experimented with drugs would do so with more dangerous and potent ones. Does this sound like a reasonable alternative? Cer­tainly not! 
The notion that legalization would benefit drug producing countries also overlooks the reason most Colombian farm­ers grow coca leaves-money. Peasants can earn two to three times more money annually by raising coca leaves than by growing coffee. 
But, if drugs were legalized, corporations would immedi­ately capitalize on the opportu­nity for a big buck, and would seek to produce as much as possible for the lowest price. Thus, it is ludicrous to assert that legalization would help the citizens of Andean nations, and even more so that proponents cite this as one of the most compelling reasons favoring their proposal. 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 

He 60T CAUW BACK 70 WASHING7DN AT TH8lAgfMINI.fT&. 
Obviously the answer to the drug problem cannot be legal­ization. We must look to pro­grams which have proven effec­tive in recent years: namely, user accountability, treatment, education, and prevention. Although the older "puppet" drug laws have proven ineffec­tive, there has been a nation­wide campaign to toughen them, and already some battles are being won at the state and local levels. We need to move forward with aggressive new laws which will fight the scourge of drugs. rather than retreat with our tails between our legs through legalization. 

The time has come for people to stop discussing the ludicrous idea of legalization, and sup-
LETTERS 
port the etrort against drugs. Some people may think "we need a sober debate on the sub­ject." In Great Britain, however, there is no debate on legalization-and there aren't daily drug-related stories on the front page. 
Christopher Coury is a junior in Notre Dame's London Pro­gram. 

Frosh officers regret cancellation of freshman formal 
Dear Editor: 

We would like to inform the members of the freshman class of the cancellation of our formal. This regrettable out­come is the result of a lack of communication between the Student Activities Office, which endorsed the project, and the Office of Student Affairs, which later rejected it. The Freshman Class Council invested two months of time, much energy, and many financial resources in planning this event. The Council, however, was com­pelled to abandon the project on Tuesday, Feb. 6, when the Office of Student Affairs unan­imously voted to oppose the Feb. 16 formal on the grounds that such an event would be inappropriate during Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Although the Student Activities Office has offered an explanation of the decision, we await a further clarification by those involved in the decision­making process. Be assured that we will continue our ef­forts to obtain an explicit ex­planation of University policy during Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Refunds for the formal will be handled through the Freshman Class Council dorm representa­tives. Further information will follow through them. 
On behalf of the entire Freshman Class Council, we wish to express our regret for this unfortunate administrative decision. We thank our class members for their enthusiastic support of the formal and hope that all will remain informed of upcoming Freshman Class events, including a Class Mass in March. 
Lynn Ramsay Chairperson Scott Boehnen Vice Chairperson Freshman Class Council Feb. 7, 1990 

Make your voice heard by voting in elections today 
Dear Editor: 
The message is simple. Today is election day, where you, the undergraduate student body, have the opportunity to make a difference. The success of student government depends on its student leaders, and you are being given the chance to put the best people in student leadership positions. 
Last year, we were fortunate enough to see over 50 percent of the voting constituent vote. It showed us that at Notre Dame, students care about who is representing them. More and more people are realizing your part. Elections will be that student leaders affect them held today from 11 p.m.-1 p.m. in one way or another. and 5 p.m.-7 p.m. in the lobby 

There are four excellent tick­of all dorms. Off-campus stu­ets running for the position of dents may vote in the student Student Body President and government office on 2nd Floor Vice-President. These are the LaFortune during those same students that are going to rec­times. Seniors are eligible to ognize your needs and work to vote. Show you care who the see them met. They will be the next student leaders are­people that will represent you VOTE. to the administration. These are the people that will invest 40 hours per week to make a Matt Breslin difference. Any one of these Student Body President tickets can successfully hold Dave Kinkopf these two important positions. Student Body Vice-President 
It is your responsibility to do Feb. 11, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
MY GU&SS 15 7H&Y WANT 
SIR, WHATHIM IN PLAC& IN CAS£3 
IB&U&V& TH& GlleF G&TS IAJAXW 
HAPP&$1F 
1'08&S&NT
7H&PR&5/0&NT 
7DH/5
ON HIS WAY t:?OWN 7D 
J 

0117.3/N
7H& ORUG CONF&F<aa. 

RJNei<AL-. 
" CDWM£3/A~ 
/ ~ I ~ ~ 
\§ 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'living is not breathing, but doing' 
Jean Jacques Rousseau 
(1712-1778) 



Viewpoint
pageS Monday, February 12, 1990 

University of Notre Dame investment policies 

TV deal shows NO's priorities 
Dear Hditor: 
I imagine that as a graduating senior I should applaud the University's recent deal with NBC to tnlevise all of our games for the next few years. It is great for alumni, families of students. and especially for the University. Notre Dame will be guaranteed the most national exposure of any college (or professional, for that matter) football program. Notre Dame has secured itself a very promising position for recruit­ing and dominating college football in the 1990s. 
Ilow about the number that Notre Dame pulled on the College Football Association, as well as smaller football pro­grams? The CFA depended on Notre Dame as a power in the 64 team association-indeed Notre Dame helped found the 
LETTERS 



Fundraising needs accountability 
Dear Editor: years at the University partici­
Articles reporting and debat­pated in ROTC. It is, neverthe­ing the home football television less, good to see that an ex­rights contract Notre Dame panded alternative now ap­made with NBC are now mak­pears to bn in the works. ing headline news nationwide. The articles uniformly quote However, both NBC and the Father Beauchamp to the effect University have declined to that the "bulk" or "majority" of publicly release both the cash the cash the University will re­amounts Notre Dame will re­ceive will go to fund a student ceive as a result of the deal and scholarship endowment. what percentage of these dol­
lars will be devoted to the So, there appears to be new, scholarship fund. big money going to financial aid. As Father McBrien taught me here a few years ago, the most 
Currently, something around important issue in fund-raising 10 percent of all students at is accountability. Those who Notre Dame are ROTC cadets accept that premise should on scholarship. Judging from make a vigorous demand for the size of the new ROTC build­the specifics of Beauchamp's ing, this may continue, and I promise. have absolutely nothing against this. Many of my friends and Lou Brenner. Jr. some of the most impressive Third Year Law Student people I have met in my seven Feb. 7, 1990 
Editor's note: In the interest offostering informed debate on the issue of divestment The Observer is reprinting the offi­cial University policies on gen­eral investment and on South Africa investment. 


South Africa Investment 
Recognizing the enormity of the tragedy of apartheid, the Notre Dame community of stu­dents. faculty, administration, staff and members of the Board of Trusteos wishes to express its abhorrence of. and objections to, the conditions being inflicted upon the op­pressod poople of South Africa. Justice, charity and compassion demand that we speak out against practices that strip fel­low beings of their human dig­nity, that impoverish their way of life, and prevent them from exercising even the most basic human freedoms. 
While we have been dedicated to ending segregation in the workplace and doing what we could to improve the well-being of those suffering under apartheid, we now commit ourselves even more directly to doing all in our power to hasten the elimination of the apartheid system itself. 
It is a moral imperative that the University of Notre Dame, as a Catholic University, use whatever influence it has to pressure the South African government to abandon apartheid and to negotiate with legitimate black leaders. It is our intention to evaluate the progress of the South African government in bringing such negotiations to a successful conclusion and dismantling apartheid. 
In this way a new political, economic, and social dispensation can emerge for the people of South Africa. Decisions regarding further in­vestmont or divestment from corporations and banks doing business in South Africa will be made on the basis of both of the above criteria: genuine ne­gotiations and the ending of apartheid. 
A committee composed of representatives of all of the above named Notre Dame con­stiluencifls has reviewed the University's South African in­

/ -~ Mand.ela 
vestment policy established in 1978. The following policy is now recommended: 
1. 
Notre Dame will not invest in any company, lending institu­tion, or government if such an investment would support the policy of apartheid. Such sup­port wold include, but not be limited to, selling strategic goods or services to the South African police, military, gov­ernment or government agen­cies. 

2. 
Notre Dame will not invest in any company doing business in South Africa that has not signed the Statement of Principles. In addition, compa­nies will be judged on the inten­sity of their support for the provisions of the Statement of Principles, and the proposals of The American Chamber of Commerce in South Africa. 

3. 
International companies will be judged on the country of origin's guidelines on sanctions, and on any formal written codes of conduct. It is expected that such guidelines and codes of conduct will, at a minimum, support the provisions of the Statement of Principles. 


4. 
Notre Dame will not invest in any bank that makes loans directly or indirectly to the South African Government or its agencies. 

5. 
Notre Dame will not invest in any banks or other institu­tions that engage in the sale or trading of South African Krugerrands. 


To implement the University policy, the Administration will take the following steps: 
1. 
Investment advisers will be informed of the policy as set forth in this statement. 

2. 
Portfolio companies will also be informed of the policy. 

3. 
Shareholders' resolutions consistent with this policy will be intiated and supported. 

4. 
The objective of this policy, apart from a moral imperative required by Notre Dame, is to contribute to the elimination of apartheid. Therefore, the progress of portfolio companies in complying with this policy, as well as the willingness of the South African Government to negotiate a just agreement, will be reviewed periodically. 


5.The Executive Committee and the Administration are em-

CFA in 1984. Notre Dame was, according to ABC, one main reason they recently signed a lucrative contract with the CFA. 
But our university is just do­ing what any school with the chance 1would have done, right? Just doing what will probably lead to other big Qame schools jumping to other networks, with the lesser name schools losing out and losing much needed revenue they would have gained from the CFA deal. Just looking out for number one. 
Greed. Quite a concept at the University of Notre Dame. If you go to Mass in almost any chapel here on a Sunday, you will hear the virtues of helping your fellow man, following Christ's example, and that there is more to life than money and greed. Then occasionally the University will show us the importance of greed. Of course, they also need you and I to fol­low their "looking out for num­ber one" example by passing through this yuppie training ground so that we can someday donate to Notre Dame. 
Tim Flood St. Edward's Hall Feb. 7, 1990 _ 
powered and authorized, after consultation with the Investment & Finance Committee, to divest immedi­ately of any holdings if in their judgment those companies do­ing business in South Africa: 
a. 
are not influencing the dismantling of the system of apartheid, or 

b. 
should circumstances war­rant this action because of fur­ther deterioration of conditions in South Africa. 


6. 
The Executive Committee and the Investment & Finance Committee are mandated to utilize the University's influence with portfolio companies to support and promote the dis­mantling of the system of apartheid, and to monitor carefully the performance of such companies. 

7. 
The Executive Committee and the Investment &Finance Committee shall review this policy at each meeting and re­port to the full Board. 


Approved by the Board of Trustees October 25. 1985; 
Amended May 9. 1986; 
Amended October 26. 1989. 


General Investment 
The University of Notre Dame commits itself to an investment policy which reflects both its identity as a Catholic university as well as its intention to pro­mote the basic moral values of fairness, respect for human life, defense of human rights and social justice. One privileged source of clarity in this work of ethical discernment is to be found in the established social teachings of the Catholic Church. 
There are many ways in which the University can have a positive influence on society and the Church. Foremost among these is the wise alloca­tion of the University's re­sources to support teaching and research. In addition, the University is an employer, a user of produets and services, and a participant in specific so­cial, economic and political orders. In all of these areas there is a moral obligation to adhere to the highest standards of social responsibility. 
The starting point of the formulation of an investment policy is the fundamental re­quirement that the trustees of the University have a moral and legal responsibility to ensure a satisfactory return on invest­ments necessary for the support and growth of the institution as a whole. 
Within the perimeters of this principle and in consideration of its social responsibility in in­vesting, the University of Notre Dame will weigh: (1) excluding from the portfolio securities of firms whose policies are inimi­cal to the values the University espouses, (2) investing in firms that demonstrate a high level of social concern, and (3) influ­encing the social behavior of invested firms through the ex­ercise of ownership rights. 
It is the responsibility of the Investment Committee of the Board of Trustees to take into consideration these basic prin­ciples, and prudentially to de­termine appropriate strategies on the basis of information and advice from external as well as internal sources, at all times keeping foremost in mind the future welfare of the University of Notre Dame. 
May 6, 1988 




Accent
Monday, February 12, 1990 page 9 





Umoja III 

The Observer/Kevin Weise 
beauty of body and soul 

The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Students moonlight as models 

LIZ HAVEL 
accent writer 
Fashions ranging from ca­sual wear and business suits to evening dresses, leather, and swimwear were displayed in the annual Black Cultural Arts Festival Fashion Show Saturday night at the J.A.C.C. Monogram room. 
"Umoja lli Beauty of Body and Soul" was the title of the program which, under the di­rection of coordinator Lois Conrad, skillfully combined mu­sic, lighting, and various props to show off the clothes of guest designers Queen Topin of Gary and Fuddie Lewis of South Bend. Additional fashions were provided by stores from the University Park Mall, Scottsdale Mall, as well as other South Bend clothing out­lets. 

Sixteen students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's served as the models during the high energy three hour performance. 
An exciting combination of mu­sic and choreography added a professional edge to the display of the latest styles. 
"The end of the show was wild, incredible. Since this was my first year seeing the show l had no idea what to expect. I was definitely surprised," commented freshman Shonda Wilson. 
Umoja,the Swahili word for unity, served as the theme for the show for the third year. This theme ties into the theme of the Black Cultural Arts 

Festival, which promotes unity 
as the key to equality. 
Saturday's performance suc­cessfully paired the latest trends in fashion with a slick performance of music, dance, and light. This year's show also serves as an integral part of the Black Cultural Arts Festival which began with a gospel performance last week and is 
scheduled to include a talent show some time next week. 

-~~~--~~--~-­



Accent
page 10 Monday, February 12, 1990 


Quantum Leap 
-""·~,.....,-r· 
'

,;;1.
·. ·•<i"" 
JOEBUCOLO To be continued... 
Ever want to be someorw else? livnryonn dons at one lime or another. Sam Beckett is lucky enough to be a diiTernnt person every week in NBC's new drama "Quantum Leap." 
Beckett (Scott Bakulal makes his leap every Wednesday at 10 
p.m. on Channel 16. lie's a sci­entist trapped in an experiment gone awry. The strange situa­tion flings him into a different person's body (and often into a difrerent eral so that he might prevent something terrible from happening. The show is as outstanding as the premise seems ridiculous. 
In one episode, Beekett finds 

himself in the body of an under­
study to the actor who plays 
Don Quixote in "The Man of La 
Mancha." What makes the 
story inter·nsting is that, while 
he assumes the role of a 
stranger, Sam does not acquire 
the inh1mmt talents or abilities 
of the person. In this instance, 
he cannot sing. I lis mission is 
to prevent the arrogant, stuck­
up drunk of an actor from 
tripping and breaking his leg. 
Beckett is thus caught be­tween a rock and a hard place. Sam cannot convince the vet­eran actor he's too drunk to go on stage. At the same time, if the actor falls, Sam must go on for him and-ugh-sing. 
To make matters worse, a new actress joins the cast. She is none other than Beckett's old piano teacher whom he had a crush on as a child. She doesn't recognize him because he's in someone else's body. 
In other episodes, Sam as­sumes the roles of a disc jockey, a football player, and even a woman. The quality of the show sterns from its inter­esting storylines. The technical­ities of the experiment keep Beckett locked in a time period 

~~~~~ 
I<Etuts, 
MEXICAN -IRISH CAFE 
Buy One Dinner and get The Second One for half price. 
(equal or less value) 
Good thru month of February 
Downtown South Bend 
119 N. Michigan 
(Opposite First Source/Marriott Hotel) 
,t\jgrt;~ (219) 234-5389 
SOMMERS GRAPHJ(/1~· 
Grand Opening 
of our full service CoQY Center featuring 
6¢ copies • High Speed Copying Full Color Copying • Full Color Transparencies Photo Typesetting • Lasar Printing 
Offset Printing • Poster Enlargements Banners • And much, much more 
Sommers Graphics is a high quality, full service copy center with many colors of paper and over 700 Ink Colors to choose from for your special projects. 
One and a half miles north of NO and SMC 52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 466637 (219) 277-6991 
~ Check Us Out! 


of 30 years. Therefore, the show will never have to rely on flashy costumes of the 18th century or famous historical personalities to keep audiences interested as NBC's now-de­funct "Voyagers" did. 

The producers of "Leap" aren't afraid to address impor­tant issues either. in one episode, Sam finds himself in the body of a retarded child about to be mainstrearned baek into school. Another episode shows him as a blind man. 
llumor plays an important role in the show's appeal. Seeing Bakula in a dress is funny for audiences. and the strange situations and dialogue prove to be quite funny as well. 
'"Quantum Leap" is a show whose absurdity ends with its premise. It is an out­standing piece of fast-paced, quality entertainment. The ac­tors are serious and believable while the writers take viewers on a wonderful adventure each week. For a little fun and a lot of creativity each Wednesday, 



[@a,.i.,i'_,] 
-THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE­
' I'
Let Us Make This Valentine's Day a Special Italian Feast! 
Special dinners including champagne and Italian Rum Cake "Stuffed Chicken Breast *Veal Marsala *Fettucine Alfredo 
*Italian Wines and Cocktails *Live Music by Larry Dwyer 

T H E • E X T R A 0 R D I N A R Y • F L 0 R A L • C 0. .~ 
"' 
k VALENTINE'S DAY FEB 14 
Roses, Fresh Flower Arrrangements, Balloons, Blooming Plants & Gifts 
10% off with Student I.D. 
SPECIAL HOURS Sun 12-4 , Mon 9-7 
Tues 9-7,Wed 9-7 

e Deliver 256-7277 Down the road 
the stadium. 


l 
I 
I



Wilkins claims Dunk contest; Hodges takes 3-point title ·-­
I 

Monday, February 12, 1990 
The Observer 
page 11 

MIAMI fAP) -Kenny Smith Smith's fancy dunks, which in­
lost the NBA slam-dunk contest eluded tossing the ball between 
by making a shot he should his legs and off the backboard 
have missed. before the slam. 
Michael Jordan, who gave up "Kenny's been holding out on 
'iunking to try long-distance us," Wilkins said. "He lied to 
.shooting, lost because he us. He said he was just trying ·missed almost everything. to get past the first round." 
In Saturday night's final Jordan switched to the 3­
round of dunking. Smith tossed point shooting contest and 
the ball high in the air and lost matched the lowest-scoring 
control bnfore softly dunking it round in the five-year history of 
through the net. He earned 47.2 the event with five points. 
points for the dunk, but if he Jordan's teammate on the 
had missed completely, he Chicago Bulls, two-time finalist 
would've had another chance. Craig Hodges, won the 3-point 
• , "It's the only time you get contest after three-time winner lenalized for doing well," Larry Bird also was eliminated ~mith said. "I slipped on the in the first round. 
takeoff. I had to grab the rim. "It was good for me to get Unfortunately, it went in." out and feel that type of compe­
1 
Dominique Wilkins' two-tition," said Jordan, the dunk handed dunk in the final round champion in 1987-88. "It's dif­earned 49.2 points, more than ferent from dunking. I'd like to . enough to pass Smith and win come back and try it again. If 
146.8 to 145.1. you don't do well, you want to 
Wilkins. who also won the come back and do better." dunk contest in 1985, was im-Smith was the more creative pressed by the unheralded dunker, with several off-the­
·••••••••••••••••••••••••C 
t Wrap up your Valentines in a C t Special way with elegant bags, fancy CJ giftwrap, tissue paper, mylar, confetti : t and balloons. C
• c 
l
• 
i: 
l
•
J 
t 
floor, off-the-glass slams, but he couldn't overcome the power of Wilkins, who at 6-foot-8, is five inches taller than Smith. 
"We were both using our cre­
ativity out there." Wilkins sairl "People don't realize the degree of difficulty. There's only so many dunks you can do." 
Smith received 49.8 points for his second of three dunks in the final round. Smith bounced the ball off the floor and the back­board before reverse dunking. 
Wilkins, who was going to skip the contest this year until injuries to other entrants al­lowed him to change his mind, was only .3 behind after scoring a 49.7 with a soaring one­hander. 
Then came Smith's mistake on the final dunk. 
"He'd have won if he'd made the last dunk," Wilkins said. "He was ahead, but his timing was off a little." 
Hodges had 19 points and Reggie Miller of the Indiana 
Write your name on a page 

Pacers 18 in the final round of the 3-point contest after Hodges outpointed Jon Sundvold of Miami 9-7 in a 24­second shootout. Hodges and Sundvold tied for second in the semifinals behind Miller. 
Hodges, who set a record for a single round in the contest with 25 points in the first round in 1986, lost in the finals to Bird in 1986 and Dale Ellis last year. 
Hodges said the music that plays during the event made it difficult to concentrate. 
"The music shocks you went you first start shooting," said Hodges, the NBA leader with a .477 percentage. "My son asked me to get the 3-point trophy after seeing Larry Bird win it, but I told him it wasn't going to be that easy." 
Bird, who won the contest in 1986, 1987 and 1988 before missing last year with an injury, had 14 points in the first round and failed to make the 
semifinals, finishing behind Hodges' 20, Miller's 16 and 15 
each  by  Sundvold  and  Bob  
Hansen of Utah.  
"I  feel  like  I  went  to  Las  

Vegas and.lost $20,000," said Bird, who failed to shoot the 25 balls allotted for one minute. 
"I couldn't believe I didn't get off all the shots," Bird said. "When the horn went off, and I had balls left, I couldn't believe it. I've never had trouble get­ting off all the shots before." 
Jordan's five points in the first round matched the worst round by any player. Detlef Schrempf had five in the 1988 semifinals. 
In the Legends Game, Cazzie Russell, who played 12 pro sea­sons with the New York Knicks, Golden State, the Los Angeles Lakers and Chicago, hit a base­line jumper with 17 seconds left, giving the East a 37-36 lead that held up when Dave Cowens missed for the West in the final seconds. 



-
-
-
-

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ------------~------------~ 


I FOUND: RING IN 116 O'SHAG WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR I need 3 GA's for Georgia Tech Need Ride to or near Pitt 2/15-16 STILL NEED MICRO-ECONNOTICES CALL X 4852 -JEANMARIE BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP or any wknd $$ JoAnne 1270 BOOK BY BROWNING. CALL AMY TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!! 
AT 3874

ram~;;;~
Word Processing 

LOST A GREY GLASS CASE Objective: Fundraiser hiag 
Can return on disk 

Commitment: Minimal Pick up and delivery 
WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES CHILDREN AT NOTRE DAME OF 
Money: Raise $1.400 ADOPTION 271-9114 IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239-Cost: Zero Investment Doctor & artist, happily married. now accepting essays. fiction and discussion group Tuesday 13. 7:00 warm. seek white newborn to love 
(GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND HUMANITAS JOURNAL DIVORCED PARENTS: Come to a 
5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. book reviews. Submit to English pm in Lewis. Details: Christina TYPING AVAILABLE 
Campus organizations. clubs. and cherish. Legal, confidential. Office by feb. 16th. 3445 287-4082 
frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800) Please call Hanna & Mark collect 932-0528/1 (800) 950-8472, ext. (212) 864-5512 FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 
123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL CLUB 23 MacShane do you know what you 10.
X4098 TO CLAIM. are kneeling in
SUIIIIER JOIIS 

Parrot Heads Forever !!! Offering our specialty For Rent 
potJNSELORS-Boys~. W . ....__ 

Lost at North Dining Hall: Blue MIDDLE EAST CUISINE
I Girta Camp, Mlline 
'new LAMINATING new"

backpack w/ Qrey suede bottom To my Valentine: Open for dinner 5 -11 pm
Top Salaty, AnVBdllaundry. Travel at The Copy Shop in LaFortune 

containing 2 red notebooks. If 4 Bdrm home for rent Cars are red. Monday to Saturday Musl ~ l<idll .00 have skiH in one of
-
Alowance. 
found, PLEASE call Mike x4057. 1122 Blyler Place Forests are green. (616)695-3786 Chemists smell sweet, THE CLUB 23 NEED 2 STUD TIX FOR THE
the lolowing activilies: 

MARQUETIE GAME CALL AMY
LOST If you smother them with whipped #2654
1vcttery. Arts & Crafts. BaseNII. 

Small, black leather purse with the AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL cream! Featuring up & coming bands. Dance. Drama. Drums, Fencing. Golf. 
B~. Blc:yding. Cheerta.ling. 

word "EXPRESS" on front. Lost YEAR -LARGE 4 BDRM. HOME. Don't miss our evening 
:iuitar. Gymn8111cs. ~. Horuback. 

Tues. 2/6. No money but other COMPLETELY FURNISHED. To the girl in NorthDining Hall on specials. NEEDED: A ride to Ball State any Karate. ~-Nalure, Nurses. 
valuable items contained inside. I CLOSE TO SCHOOL. CALL 234-Saturday night who liked Jimmy 234-3541 "MO" weekend x 1938 Photography. ,._no, Radio, Rockelry. 
can identify it from twenty feet and 9364. Buffett---Let"s get together and R~ S"*-ding. s.lting. ~ 
I want it back. Return it now and no listen to his greatest hits BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 
ADOPTION 
Soccer, Tennis. Track. WSI. Waterski. 

questions will be asked, House for 1990-91 school year sometime.! Give me a call. 3128 Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279. Weights, Wood. Men call or write: 
otherwise... #4145 Furnished. secure home, 5 includes meals, parties, Physician and wife. happrlybedrooms, WID
C&rrCI Wln8du. 5 Glen Lane, 
accomodations, some rooms have married for ten years. wouldClose to ND
Mamaroneck. N.Y. 10543 (914) 

AVOID THE RUSH! kitchens, leaves from Ft. 
love to adopt a baby. We have a
WANTED 

Competitive rent 264-601 0 AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE!
381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Lauderdale. Cancun Bdays $399. 

comfortable home to share andVega. P.O. Box 1n1. Duxbury. MA COME IN TO THE OBSERVER 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring most importantly lots of love. 
02332 (617) 934-6536. 

CRUISE SHIPS Now hiring all ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room SOON TO ENTER YOUR Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. 
patience and understanding. We
positions. Both skilled and in house near campus. Quiet, VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. 
TYPING term live on 20 rolling acres with a
unskilled. Apply from home. For comfortable. Furnished or un­
papers/reports/letters/resumes. lawn. pond and woods. We will
information Call: (615) 779-5507 furnished. Considerate, non­PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN NO-Missouri basketball 
Pick up & delivery available. 277-provide your child with the best
Ext. R-200. smoker a must. $225/mo. Call PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, 
5134 Cathy. educational opportunities. We will
232-9952. 

LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. Coming soon pay medical and legal expenses. 
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF to an arena near you

EXPERT TYPING Please call collect for a recorded
READING BOOKS AT HOME. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL. 
$3/PG message. (219) 625-4205.
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. 8-219-291-7153. 
PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL291-3829 
(\l\.f\IIII.IIIIAAI\/I.fr,I\I\/I.AI\I\I\/I.A/1./1./I.A/I.AAAAAAA/1./I./I.

340. COLLECT 513-891-1583. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT /I.A/1.111\AAAAAA
MAIL BOXES ETC. LOVEFEST '90! ...
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Looking for Love in all the Tracey, I Love You ..... 
Shipping, Copies. Cards. 
mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII 

wrong places? Try something WPF
Laser Quality For ...Mothers hide your daughters..
Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write 3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM IIAAAAAAAAAAI\AAAAAAAAAAAA/111/IAAAIIAAIIAA
new--February 13
Papers, Reports. Resumes, Etc. ...Father hide your 8.8...
IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del CAMPUS. 234-1714. 
277-MAIL ...Farmers hide your sheep ...
Mar. CA 92625. 

Matchmaker. Matchmaker.-I make me a match, find me a Seniors...............................................

FORSALE 
IT'S OUTRAGEOUS...IT'S

DESPERATELY SEEKING A PIANO IN GOOD CONDITION. DO NEG 54" projection TV 13 LOVEFEST "90
CruiMihlpJobs find, catch me a catch. February Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club 
HIRING Men-women. Summer/ from 10pm -2am Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS, 
YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE TO PERFECT FOR DORMS LOVEFEST '90 
Got a Date/ Need a Date TOUR GUIDES. RECREATION 
SELL TO ME? CALL SHIRLEY@ Call ND Dept. of Comm. &Theatre LOVEFEST '90!!! 
Flowers for Sale!!!! People for Senior Formal Spring Raffle PERSONNEL. Excellent pay plus 
239-5303 BETWEEN 8:30 AM & 239-7054 Sale?!?! A Valentine Event you Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc..
FREE travel. Caribbean, Hawaii, 

3:30PM. xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxox
won't want to miss. February 13Bahamas. South Pacific, Mexico. 
JUOOGI ox ox CALL NOWI CAll refundable. 
Ride needed to COLUMBUS. for sale St. Jude. please hear my prayer. JOHNS.
Have you ever wondered what you
1·206·736-0775, Ext. 600 N. 

OH Friday 2/16. Call Jackie size3 HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!!
could do with a few x4114 Coming soon.. We love you. Mom. Dad. Joey, 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB... call Laura x3887 cheerleaders? Find out -February Alumni Senior Club applications for Cliff Erickson Ellen. Kevin & Roger
13 
bartenders and managers now COUNSELORS, summer camp for Where? Alumni Sr. Club xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxox available in Student Activities MR. June 10-August 18. Orlando. TICKETS When? Feb 15 & 16 oxox
"3 Basketball players and a FL (407) 889-8088.
Office. wrestler" Coming soon to an 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS auction near you! II February 13 SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. )GUITARIST: Seeking established GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) REASONABLE PRICES. band or SERIOUS musicians to ROME(JUNE17-JULY16) Ballroom Dance Club
THE VALENTINE AUCTION 
289-174 play almost anything from Pink I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets TRAVEL IN IRE .. SCOT., FR., 
Buy a date with your favorite Floyd to 10.000 Maniacs. Pro. For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259 SWITZ., GER., ENG., & ITALY. Mondays 7pm
campus celebrity: equipment and good attitude a HELP! COURSES IN ART, 810.. BUEC.
•Fr. "Monk" Malloy must. Call Ken X 3303 HIST., IT., SOC. Fencing Gym. JACC
•Chris 
'Zarro' Zorich $$$REWARD$$$REWARD$$$ NEED 4 GEORGIA TECH ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING

•Chuck 
'WNDU' Freeby Lost pair of black lined leather TICKETS. CALL JOANIE x3851 FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL If you're not there,

•The 
Rocket gloves. If found please call HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS you're nowhere

•The 
Irish Guard Claudine x4045. Really neect1wo Missouri Tickets. STUDENTS, TEACHERS.&

•The Leprechaun $$$ Call Pete #2043. PIZZA. FOR MORE

•The 
Cheerleaders & many IF YOU FOUND!TOOK A BLUE Leave message. INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK GOTCHA 


Summer job interviews -Average 
earnings $3.400. University more! 
JANSPORT BOOK BAG FROM AT 284-4460 OR 272-3726.
The Valentine Auction is Tuesday, THE LAFORTUNE CENTER $NEED GA"s for Georgia Tech$ Feb. 13, 9p.m.-1 a.m. All players must prck up portfoliosDirectories, the nation's largest 
publisher of campus telephoneARCADE ON TUESDAY, FEB.7,1 call Jim x1646 at Theodore's. There will be door MJG. T-nite in Stanford Rm. 307 Failure
directories. hires over 200 collegeWILL GIVE YOU A $40 REWARD LIFE IS TOO SHORT FOR ME to do so automatically disqualifies 
students for their summer sales prizes. FOR THE PROMPT RETURN OF NEED 3 GEORGIA TECH NOT TO TELL YOU HOW I FEEL. I you.
program. Top earnings $5.000­ALL OF MY NOTES. YOU CAN TICKETS. CALL KEN x4074. LOVE YOU -I ALWAYS HAVE AND 
$8.000. Gain valuable experience THE RAFFLE KEEP MY BOOKS, AND THERE ALWAYS WILL. 
Buy a chance at the over $1700 in WILL BE NO QUESTIONS ASKED. MMM Meredith, 
-in advertising, sales and public 
prizes to be won at the Valentine CALL SHAALU AT 272-3174 I NEED 1 GEORGIA TECH Auction on Tuesday, February 13 happy 19th birthday-you're legal relations selling yellow page 
advertising for your campus TICKET. MIKE X3501 in canada-aren't you excited?!

at Theodore's. It's only a buck and HELP...IIost a sapphire/diamond You sLJrvived the formal! You're a telephone directory. Positions also 
is available at the dining halls at ring! High Sentimental NO and Haggar Hall (downstairs) HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHIL great roommate (even if you do cut available in other university 
markets. Expense paid training 

value•••reward Need one ticket for Missouri 
atSMC. Believe it or not, you have survived classes a lot!)Oh yeah, Go Irish I Call Debbie 2935 Ca11Mattx1213 to face yet another major holiday Love, katie program in Chapel Hill, NC. 
Looking for enthusiastic, goal­

r 
--· 
Monday, February 12, 1990
page 12 The Observer 
Robinson's 291ead Michigan over lllini; Purdue falls 73-72 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -Rumeal Robinson matched his career-high with 29 points but it was Michigan's frontline whictrreally impressed Illinois coach Lou Henson. 
Center Terry Mills scored 20 points and forward Loy Vaught added 16 points and a career-high 18 rebounds as the No. 7 Wolverines (18-4, 8-3) beat No. 12 Illinois (17-5, 7-5) 93-79 in a Big Ten game. 
~~~~i~so~::b1~r~~r~~~s~~g12-foot jumper with 32 seconds l>evfetr hN"ft0e_d 10NoP.ur1d7ueM in ~ e so0tan 
( _ _ 73 72 
Sunday. 

Newbern, who finished with seven points, had thrown the ball away 21 seconds earlier to allow Purdue (17-4, 9-2) to take its final lead in the Big Ten rnatehup. Tony Jones picked off Newbern's pass near the top of the key and racPrl the length of the court for a dunk, giving the Boilermakers a 72-71 lead with 53 seconds left. 
Sooners 89, Seton Hall 84 
Reserve Smokey McCovery scored 20 points and sparked a decisive run early in the second half and No. 13 Oklahoma held ofT stubborn but stumbling Se­ton Hall 89-84 on Sunday. 
Oklahoma (17-3) never trailed in sending the NCAA runner-up Pirates to their 


~~~~~eJt~!t~~\~~~~·1 ;-~~) t~=~ 
low the .500 mark for the first ti~ e since Janh. 30s, 1986. h
1

r owever, t e ooners, w o have been struggling a little themselves lately, had to work hard against a rebuilding team that got a career-high 30 points from freshman guard Terry Dehere. 
Missouri 107, Nebraska 85 Doug Smith nearly got a Mis­
souri scoring record. The top-ranked Tigers got back to their winning ways. · 

~~ t 1 J l \\i~\_,_~_-;
l ~ 
I. ' \ 
Rumeal Robinson 
Smith scored 44 points-two short of the 29-year-old school record-and Missouri bounced back from a loss to Kansas State with a 107-85 trouncing of Nebraska on Saturday. 
"Doug Smith had a tremen­
dous game," Missouri co:u~h Norm Stewart said after the Tigers matched a school mark with their 29th straight home victory. 
Kansas 88, Iowa State 83 
Kansas, which plays host to 
Missouri on Tuesday night, will 
likely retake the top spot in the 
poll after winning at Ames, 
Iowa for the first time since 
1983. The Jayhawks (24-1, 7-1) 
did it with a four-point play 
with 1:03 left. 


le~:~~~nw~~r~e~~~aa1~ 2~8a~ 
fouled by Iowa State's Brian ~earsont as _JeffKGueldner nit a 
JUmper o g1ve ansas an 84-81 lead. Randall made both free throws as the Cyclones (7-13, 2-6), who lost for the seventh time by five points or less, missed two 3-pointers to tie in the last 15 seconds. 
Duke 114, Maryland 111 
Duke (19-4, 8-2), avoided 

their second straight road loss 
and held on to the top spot in 
the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
They used a 16-2 run to take a 95-92 lead with two seconds left but Teyon McCoy hit a 3­pointer at the buzzer to force the overtime. Maryland (13-1 0, 3-6), played the extra session without four starters who had fouled out. They led 103-102 before the Blue Devils ran off seven straight points to seal the win. 

v;l~i~~h~~;:;,~r~=~~:~teswi:~ 
Baylor 82, Nn. ~ Arkansas 77, ~(~-~ GP(rsgetown 5~ 0 F1Norida 
; o. yracuse • o. 8 Connecticut 86; No. 9 UNLV 100, Oklahoma State 84; No. 11 Louisiana State 119, Tennessee 113; No. 14 La Salle 99, Man­hattan 78; No. 16 Georgia Tech 94. No. 15 Louisville 84; No. 22 Arizona 83, No. 19 UCLA 74; No. 20 Loyola Maryrnount 139. St. Mary's, Calif. 110 

Haggar GorltJgu Cbnl&r. Q.,auune fur ilext--Jdf cidssrlieos ',s J f.). ill. Ail dassmed~ must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
withmelll LOST well-paying summer job. THE FLOWER DELIVERY Thanks for your patience and Brown Leather Jacket taken from Give that 'special someone' a support, have a happy v-day I NEED A RIDE TO THE TOM 
oriented stu9ents for challenging, 
Internships may be available. 

party at 304 Campus View. I really 1 round trip plane ticket to WA, DC surprise flower for Valentine's Day. honey, PETTY CONCERT IN CHICAGO
Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
like It so please return it...or else I'll for.spririg break $158 It's just a buck and we deliver on Love, ON 2/15. PLEASE CALL 284­
20. Sign up at the Career & 

call crime stoppers. No questions Call Theresa at 2771 Feb. 141 Molly 5090
Placement Services. 
asked #1804 (Brian) 

r 
Monday, February 12, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Racquetball Club will hold a meeting for anyone interested in playing during second semester. The meeting will be held in 343 Nieuwland on Feb. 13 at 8 p.m. Call x 2334 or x 2274 for more information. 
Freshman John Coyle captured first place in the junior division in the inaugural World Cha~pionship Qualifying Cross Country Trials Saturday m Seattle. Coyle is now eligible to represent the U.S. in the World Championships March 24 in Paris. More details will appear in Tuesday's Observer. 
Equestrian Club will meet at 8:30 p.m. today in 222 in the library. All members must attend. 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 10:30 p.m. tonight. 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre to discuss plans for the Marquette game. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Ob­server in Lafortune. The Observer does not guaran­tee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space con­straints, no brief may run more than two times. 
UNTIL THERE IS 
NO LONELINESS, 
NO DESTITUTION, 
NO SICKNESS, 

NO WAR ... 


The Observer page 13 


O'Connor leads Irish at Collegiates 
Special to The Observer The Notre Dame men's track team competed in the Central Collegiate championships in Madison, Wis., finishing fifth against Big 10 and MidAtlantic Coast competition. "It was our best team show­ing in five years," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "Mike O'Connor ran very well for us, taking first in the 1000-meter run and running the last leg in the distance medley relay for two first place performances. The team did really well overall and we were very pleased to finish fifth against some very good competition." Eastern Michigan captured 
NBC 
continued from page 20 
future programming sequence 
that contained "Alf' reruns, 
Notre Dame football and stale 
"Gilligan's Island" episodes 
every Saturday afternoon. 
Where would this 
network/university partnership 
end? A deal in which George­
town, Duke, or Syracuse signed 
with a network for the rights to 
their basketball games suddenly 
becomes a possibility, and 
further developments after that 
might be making NBC 
executives dream in dollars. 
Further, the parity of college 
football may be at stake. 

first place in a field of 25 teams with a total of 141 points. Pur­due placed second with 119, followed by Illinois (71) and Michigan State (64). Notre Dame tallied 50.50 points as the fifth-place finisher. 
The Irish received top-point performances from O'Connor, who placed first in the 1000­meter run with an indoor per­sonal-best time of 14:12. The Notre Dame distance medley relay team of Shawn Schnieder, Lance Decker, Mike Rogan and O'Connor also placed first, with a time of 9:53.48. 
Ryan Cahill placed second in 
MCC 
continued from page 20 
medleys (2:15.26 and 4:52.82). 
"As a forecast for our upcoming championships, this meet has made us extremely optimistic," said Welsh. "Far more than half the team swam lifetime bests, a number that is extraordinary. The meet was exciting because of what hap­pened and what we expect to happen." 

Next on the schedule for the teams is the Eastern Intercollegiate Championships. The women swim Feb. 22-24, and the men compete the fol­lowing week, March 1-3. Thanksgiving was the last weekend of classes in which the squads did not race, so this up­coming weekend will give the 
he can guarantee his prospect national exposure for at least six games a year. It's either Notre Dame and the surety of national exposure or State U. and try your luck. As more schools strike deals with networks, this threat to parity grows ever bigger. 
The time has come for Notre Dame to reevaluate why it is involved in college football. Surely it has brought it financial gain, but is that why the university pursues it? Only an idealist would say that col­lege football is not big business, but being at the forefront of a momentous step in the further development of the sport as a money-making the 3,000-meter run with a per­sonal best 8:17.33. Rusty Setzer took third in the 50-meter dash with a 6.40, and placed sixth in the 200-meter dash with a time of 22.37. 
Irish teammates Yan Searcy and Glenn Watson added two fourth-place finishes, Searcy's in the 600-meters (1 :20.48) and Watson in the high hurdles (7.55). John Cole placed sixth in the high jump with a jump of 
2.1 meters. 
Notre Dame will take to the track again when they travel to the Indiana Intercollegiates in West Lafayette. 
swimmers a much needed rest from a demanding schedule. 
The women have two full weeks before their meet in Baltimore, while the men will prepare for three weeks before traveling to Cleveland. 
"We will be prepared and ex­cited for our final two meets," Welsh said. "We will spend the time in practice polishing our skills and sharpening speed." 
Beauchamp sits as the secretary-treasurer of the CFA, he votes for what's best for college football. But when he is not sitting for the board, he's standing for Notre Dame's interests. By signing the agree­ment with NBC Beauchamp and Notre Dame have demonstrated which interest takes precedence. 
Is there a "me first" clause in DuLac? 

the~~with thededication~ 
amarathonerandthe 
rourageofanexplorer. 
Wt need a Peace Corps ~luntcer. CaJI UUI1..fl00..424-8$80, Ext. 9l 


FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 

EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
APROGRAM ARRAr~GED BY DEAN JOHN KEANE FOR FRESHMEN HHO HISH TO LEARN MORE ABOUT 
A MAJOR IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 


6:30 P.M. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1990 ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
' '·I 


Monday, February 12, 1990 

page 14 The Observer 


Defense leads East over West 
MIAMI (AP) -The East won Sunday's NBA All-Star Game with a weapon foreign to play­ground basketball: defense. 
The East forced 23 turnovers and held the West to 44 percent shooting in a 130-113 victory. The West's point total was the lowest in the All-Star Game since 1976, when the East beat the West 123-109. 
"Harely do you find defense in an All-Star Game," said Chicago's Michael .Jordan, who had five of the East's 16 steals. "And I think our team played great defense. 
"I don't think either team knew the defense would be as active as it was. We were get­ting our hands on a lot of stuff." 
The defensive effort by the East may have been innuenced in part by Coach Chuck Daly, whose Detroit Pistons won the NBA title last year with tough defense. The East players had only about an hour together at Saturday's practice. but Daly said it helped. 

"We talked a lot about the defensive end and to make sure we matched up on transition," Daly said. "They don't have to play hard on defeJ:se, but they're willing to do it because they're great competitors." 
The East, with no player scoring more than 17 points, was balanced on defense as well as offense. Jordan and lsiah Thomas of Detroit made things difficult for the West guards, and the East's interior defense, led by Patrick Ewing of New York with five blocked shots, was outstanding. 
The West's starting front line -Akeem Olajuwon of Houston and Los Angeles Lakers A.C. Green and .James Worthy ­missed 25 of 28 shots. The 7­foot Olajuwon even had a shot blocked -by Charles Barkley of Philadelphia in a one-on-one situation. 
"That's one of those plays where if you block it it's good, if you foul it's good, and if you get dunked on it's embarrass­ing," Barkley said. 
"You don't want to get hurt and you don't want to get em­barrassed. Those are my two most important goals in this game." 
The East stars' 54-percent shooting helped-their defense by making it difficult for the West to get its fast break go­ing. 
"I thought if we were going to win it would have to be with quickness and running," West coach Pat Riley said. "But we never got the chance because they shot too well." 
In the lowest-scoring All-Star Game since 1982, the West played some defense too. Magic Johnson, the game's most valu­able player, scored 22 points and also made a tenacious at­tempt to guard Barkley. 
"One time Charles picked me up and threw me out of the lane and said, 'You don't belong here,'" Johnson said. "I sai?, 'I agr~~· but you're my assignment. 





Magic named MVP despite loss 
MIAMI (AP) Magic . Johnson was a little stunned. Even he didn't realize he could win in defeat. 
The Los Angeles Lakers guard walked away from the NBA i\11-Star game with most valuable player honors Sunday, capturing one of the few major awards that's escaped him in II years despite playing on the losing team. 
.Johnson scored 22 points. grabbed six rebounds and handed out four assists in the West's 130-113 loss. llt1 estab­lished All-Star single-game and can1er records for 3-point bas­kets and edged Michael Jordan, Patrick Ewing, Hobert Parish and lsiah Thomas of the East in the MVP voting. 
"I never thought I'd win in a game like this," said .Johnson. a 1 0-time All-Star who has five world championship rings. two NBA Most Valuable trophies and three playoff MVI' awards. 
"I was here to have a good time and give the fans a good show, but never imagined I'd wind up winning," said John­son, only the third MVP to come from a losing team and the first since 1977. "Sometimes it's not about winning (games). Just being here, you won. .. . l lost the ga~?· but I didn't lose the fun. 
Johnson hit four of six 3­
point attempts to set the 
single-game All-Star record. He 
now has five career 3-pointers 
in nine All-Star appearances, 
tying him with Thomas, who 
made one of one on Sunday. 
"lie surprised me a few times 
with some of those threes," 
said Jordan, who started the 

game matched against Johnson on defense. "We played them (Lakers) last week and he hit three. I didn't think he could shoot from there." 
The East set the tone for the afternoon, taking a 40-23 lead after one period. The West ral­lied, but never got closer than nine points in the final quarter. 
Johnson felt the key  to  the  
game  was  that the  East  re­ 
serves  played  as  well  as  the  

starters. "Once you get down 
20 points, it's hard to come back," he said . 
East coach Chuck Daly was asked who he would have picked as the winning team's MVP. "I wouldn't even want to vote, everybody played so well." he said. 
Johnson joined Julius Erving (1977) and Bob Pettit (1958) as the only players to win the MVP 
trophy  on  a  losing  team.  lie  
dedicated  the  award  to  his  
mother and father.  


MARY B. GREEN MICHAEL BAUER 
"'Ff8wsu oU. Gi6f& (1M td! ~, FREE DELIVERY! 
COME IN AND BROWSE ~ Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM After years of dishing off assists to the game's eventual Most Valuable Player, Magic Johnson of the Los Angeles Lakers finally was selected himself as the MVP of the NBA All-Star Game. The Eastern Conference still defeated the West 130-113 Sunday at Miami. 

BHIDAL SERVICE  Cundeya 9:00AM to 12:00 Noon  
FRUIT BASKETS  SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARrS  
FUNERAL TRIBUTES  SERVING SC.. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS  


r~~~..-.c~..-....-..~.._....._..~..-....-..--.._.._...._..._..._..._.. ....1 1 Join the team 
I 

I that brings ND/SMC 
l 1
The Observer 1 

._..._..._.._._..._..._..._..._..._..,~--......-......--.-..~._..~ 
**************************************************~ 
•  ''WHENHARRY MET SALLY"  •  
~  this Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday  ~  
• ~  in Carroll Auditorium at 9:00 and 11:15 $1.00 admission  •!  
•  co-sponsored by the Model United Nations  •  
~  "GOT A DATE, NEED A DATE" tomorrow night  ~  
~  at  ...Alumni  Senior  Club­ 10:00  to  2:00  $2.00  •  
~  Later this month: Club Tuesday with Brian Huskey  •  




~**************************************************~ 

Monday, February 12, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Zadra leads Irish to 'inspired' home-and-h9me sweep ­

By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
Left wing Lou Zadra and the Notre Dame hockey team had something to prove in this past weekend's home-and-home series against Lake Forest. 
Zadra and the Irish re­sponded to the challenge with two spirited performances which resulted in victories over the Foresters on Friday night at the Joyce ACC and Saturday night at Lake Forest. 
Zadra, who had been in Irish coach Ric Schafer's proverbial doghouse after a poor showing the previous week, scored the game-tying and game-winning goals in the third period on Friday as the Irish defeated the Foresters 6-4. He also tallied a timely goal in Saturday's 7-3 victory, which upped Notre Dame's record to 17-11. 
Early in the third period Friday night, things looked grim for the Irish. They had blown a 2-0 first period lead, allowing the Foresters to grind their way back and take a 4-3 lead on freshman Greg Selby's goal at the 9:16 mark of the fi­nal stanza. 
But Zadra and the Irish re­fused to roll over and die. With Lake Forest's Randall Williams in the penalty box for roughing midway through the third period, Zadra flipped the re­bound of Dan Sawyer's blast from the point past Forester goalie Dan Vacco to tie the game. 
Notre Dame had a couple of golden opportunities to take the lead after that, but Vacco stopped senior Tim Kuehl and sophomore Dave Bankoske from in close. 
Kuehl and Bankoske eventu­ally had the last laugh. 
With the Foresters serving another two-minute penalty, Bankoske gained control of the puck deep in the corner to the right of Vacco. lie took a few 
strides back toward the blue line. then slid a crisp pass to Kuehl in the slot. Kuehl relayed quickly to Zadra, who was standing to Vacco's right, and Zadra found paydirt to give the Irish a 5-4 lead with 2:22 left in the game. 
The Foresters weren't fin­
ished yet, and after Notre 
Dame defenseman Mike Leherr 
was sent off the ice for rough­
ing with 1:50 left in the game, 
Lake Forest pulled Vacco for a 
6-on-4 manpower advantage. 
The Irish defense prevailed, 
however, and freshman Tom 
Miniscalco added an exclama­
tion point with an empty net 
goal in the game's final sec­
onds. 

"That was a pretty exciting hockey game, wasn't it?" Schafer asked rhetorically after the win. "It was everything you could ask for in a college hockey game. All that and a happy ending as well." 
The Irish took control early the next night against Lake Forest. After Bankoske tallied twice and Kuehl once in the first period, freshman de­fenseman Dan Sawyer scored on a slapshot from the point to give Notre Dame a 4-0 lead early in the second period. 
With a little help from the of­ficials, the Foresters climbed back into the game. Lake Forest converted on a pair of 5-on-3 power plays to come within 4-3. Schafer was not at all pleased with the officiating at that point. 
"There came a time in the third period when the referee was doing his part to stage a comeback," Schafer said. "He was handing out penalties like the government hands out cheese." 
But Zadra arrived once again to save the day. On yet another Lake Forest power play, he scored a shorthanded goal which staked the Irish back to a two-goal lead. Freshman Sterling Black added an insur­ance goal, and Bankoske put the icing on the cake with his third goal of the game and 

The CllsetverI Soott McCann 

David Bankoske (12) helped charge the Notre Dame hockey team to a weekend sweep of Division Ill school Lake Forest in a home-and-home twinbill this weekend. The two wins improved Notre Dame's record on the season to 17-11 . 
fourth in two nights as Notre three-goal game of the season The Irish travel to St. Cloud Dame prevailed 7-3. did not go unnoticed. State to play two games 
"It was a team effort that "That was perhaps David's against the Huskies this coming won the game for us," Zadra best game of the season," weekend. said. "I was in the doghouse stated Schafer. "But not be­for taking stupid penalties. cause he scored goals. He was Coach had all the reason in the everywhere on the ice, and he world to do that (bench Zadra really made other people stand in the third period last weekend still and watch him. against Air Force). I got my ''I'm happy to say we're play­priorities straight, though, and ing well again. Regardless of 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or writeo 

was able to do the job tonight." what happens at St. Cloud next 
+­
AIDS 1"-ic-
American Red Cross 
'Mishington. OC 20006

Bankoske also had an excel­weekend, I'll be happy if we 
lent series, and his second continue to play this well." 


RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

START YOUR CLIMB TO CAREER SUCCESS THIS SUMMER. 
Apply for Army ROTC summer leader­ship training. You'll develop confidence and decisiveness essential for success. And you'll qualify to earn officer credentials while completing college. 


ARMY ROTC TWO-YEAR PROGRAM 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 

contact Maj. Weiss 
Army ROTC 239 -6264 


lJrcoming Events 
WEDNESDAY,FEBRUARY14 
Brown Bag Seminar 
BISHOP THOMAS GUMBLETON 
Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit and President of Pax Christi USA 
"CITIZEN ACTION AND CHRISTIAN WITNESS" at 12:00 noon -Room 110 Law School 
THURSDAY,FEBRUARY15 
Lecture 
ALEXANDER WILDE 
Director, Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), Washington, D.C. 
"THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION AND CENTRAL AMERICA: BEYOND THE REAGAN ERA?" at 4:00p.m.-Center for Social Concerns Multipurpose Room. Co-sponsored with the Kellogg Institute. 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR
••• INTERNATIONAL




111111 ~~~;~~!:~ 
The Observer Monday, February• 12, 1990 
Phelps upbeat during tough times 
Irish faced with tough schedule for final eight contests 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

HOUSTON -Notre Dame men's basketball coach Digger Phelps still has the towel in his hand. 
And he has no intention of throwing it in. 
Following a 93-82 loss to Houston Saturday afternoon in Hotheinz Pavilion, Phelps wrote two phrases on the blackboard -"We will be fine. You've got to believe." 
"We just have to stay in a positive frame of mind," Phelps said. "We're just trying to keep our heads above the water and fight to get in the tourney." 
The loss to the Cougars dropped the Irish to 12-8 with eight games left in the season. Notre Dame is a perfect 8-0 at home and just 4-8 away from the Joyce ACC. 
The remaining games -three on the road and five at home ­will be crucial for the Irish. And they will not be easy. 
Notre Dame hosts Marquette Wednesday and then travels to Syracuse for a nationally-tele­vised game Saturday afternoon. The team returns home to host DePaul the following Tuesday and then entertains Georgia Tech on Feb. 24. 
The Irish play at Dayton Feb. 28 before returning home for a big game with Missouri March 
3. The season ends with Kentucky on March 5 at the JACC and a contest at DePaul on March 10. 
One person who is convinced that Notre Dame belongs in the NCAA field is Houston coach Pat Foster. 
"They're good enough to be there," Foster said. "They're certainly one of the best 64 teams in the country. They're probably solidly in the Top 40 in the country." 
The strength of the Notre Dame schedule could play a role in determining its fate. The Irish have played or will play nine teams in last week's Associated Press Top 25 ­Missouri, Duke, Syracuse, Louisville, LSU, LaSalle, UCLA, Georgia Tech and Indiana. 
Even with that, the Irish will need some big victories in the next few weeks to solidify their tournament hopes. 
The weekend games were a homecoming for the Texas Express of sophomores Elmer 


Houston 
continued from page 20 

points. Then we're back in a negative situation." 
Houston scored the first four points of the second half for a 44-32 advantage before Notre Dame got untracked again. The Irish chipped at the lead and cut it to 47-42 with 15:13 left. and still trailed just 51-46 when Robinson hit two free throws with 13:35 remaining. 
But the Cougars rebuilt the lead to 66-52 on a jumper from Teheran with 8:30 left. Notre Bennett and Daimon Sweet. 
Bennett was a Texas Mr. 
Basketball at Bellaire High 
School in Houston, while Sweet 
received All-American recogni­
tion at Central High School in 
Beaumont. 
Bennett scored 10 points and 
dished out three assists in a 63­
49 win over Southern Methodist 
Thursday, and had 11 points 
with seven assists in the loss to 
the Cougars. He played 32 min­
utes in Saturday's game. 
Sweet tallied six points against the Mustangs and then equaled Bennett's total of 11 with Houston. Sweet scored the 11 points in just 13 minutes of 
·action. 
Notre Dame seniors Joe 
Fredrick and Keith Hobinson 
should end their careers with 
more than 1,000 points. If suc­
cessful, they will become the 
32nd and 33rd Irish players in 
Irish history to surpass the 
mark. 
Fredrick has 959 career 
points with Hobinson at 944. 
Robinson has also pulled down 
622 career rebounds . 
Austin Carr (1968-71) leads 
the Irish in career scoring with 
2,560 points. 
Dame put one more run to­gether, reducing the margin to 70-64 with 4:38 left, but the Irish could get no closer. 
The Cougars hit 11-of-14 free throws in the last live minutes to seal the vietory. 
The Irish will host Marquette at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. 


ELECTION COMMITTEE ASKSALLSTUDENTSINCLUDING SENIORS TO VOTE 

J1Jlo1l[/ §o~ JP]t¥1 ITN AJ1J1 [))(Q)ffiJMI~ 
MAKE AN EDUCATED CHOICE 





VOTE TODAY 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT 


--• 0 4 


February 12-March 5 at LaFortune infonnation desk. On Campus Stun -ups: Now -March 5. Look for posters in respective donns. 
"Christmas in Aprill990" will take place on April 7, in the Washngton Street neighborhod. 
--------~---­
Monday, February 12, 1990 
Solid as Larock: Boilermakers defeat Irish wrestlers 17-15 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
In its quest to win the first Shillelagh trophy ever awarded for wrestling, Notre Dame got caught between Larock and a hard place. 
As Saturday's match at the Joyee ACC came down to the heavyweight division. Purdue sent in 29-year-old freshman Larock Benford. The 228­pound Superboiler subdued Notre Dame's Chuck Weaver 16-4 to give Purdue a 17-15 victory. 
Benford, a staff sergeant with the U.S. Marines, has a 6­0 individual record at Purdue since earning eligibility this semester. 
"We had everything cleared with the NCAA," said Purdue coach Mitch Hull, whose team improved to 6-3-2. "lie's a full­time student taking 12 credits. lie came out of high school weighing just 155 pounds." 
Irish coach Fran McCann 

knew that his team would be in 
trouble if the Boilers still had a 
chance by the time the 
heavyweights took the mat. 
"They had a 30-year-old ex­

Marine going against a 19­
ycar-old kid," McCann said. 
"lie's not your ordinary 
frnshman, I'll tell you that." 
Notre Dame (5-7) came into 

the match ranked 24th in the 
nation and looking to get back 
to .500 for the first time since 
last month's ill-fated California 
trip. Also at stake was the 
Shillelagh, a trophy that has 
b1wn awarded to the winner of 


Off Campus Stun -ups: February 12-16 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. 
the NO-Purdue football game since 1957 but never before had any involvement with the two schools' wrestling programs. 
After the first five matches, it looked to most observers as though Notre Dame would maintain its position in the Top 
25. The Irish had won four of those lighter weight categories to take a 12-3 lead. 
Notre Dame's early momentum came as no surprise to either coach. 
"The match went exactly as I figured it would go,;' said Hull. "We've got a really strong group of heavyweights, but are young in the lighter weights. That's where Notre Dame's strength is, in the lighter weights." 
McCann, who said before the match that whoever got the most bonus points would come away with the victory, did not get major decisions from any of Notre Dame's three big guns ­Andy Radenbaugh, Pat Boyd or Mark Gerardi. 
Radenbaugh beat Purdue's Gabe Zirelback 7-3 at 118 pounds, Boyd defeated Aaron Moran 6-1 at 142 and Gerardi beat Chris Lemanski 9-5 at 167. A wrestler must win by eight points to earn a major decision, which gives a school four team points instead of the three points given for an ordinary victory. 
"Our kids didn't work hard 
enough for (bonus points)," 
said McCann. "We had 
opportunities, but it didn't look 
like we were hungry enough." 
Sophomore 126-pounder 

Al"I'ENTION STUDENTS 
Marcus Gowens and junior 150-three matches, two of them 
pounder Todd Layton also got coming on major decisions. 
victories for Notre Dame in the Mike McHenry, the third­
early going. After Purdue's ranked 177-pounder in the 
Dave Walter beat Irish 158-nation, whipped Notre Dame's 
pounder Todd Tomazic, Curt Engler 15-6. In the next 
Gerardi won the 167-pound weight division, Purdue's Eric 
match to give Notre Dame a Schultz toppled Steve King 7-4 
15-6 lead. in a heated match that ended 
That's when Purdue made its with the two wrestlers move. exchanging unpleasantries. The Boilers swept the final That set the stage for 
::::::::::::::::m~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::~::m:m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::; 
Benford, who left hts • mark, andI Weaver, on the JACC mat. 
"(Benford) might be the best in the Big Ten from what I've seen," said McCann. ''I'm disappointed because we had a really good week of practice, and the guys had worked their tails off. Then, they come here and wrestle like they're just trying to get by." 


This project needs your support! 
-
QUESTIONS??? Please call: Karen Croteau Xl367 Lora Mangan Xl314 Isabel Navarrete Xl314 

Bob Scheibel X2544 



a a a 0 --~ ~~­
Monday, February 12, 1990 

page 18 The Observer 

Tyson gets KO'd by Douglas, then files protest 


Mike Tyson 

Meyran fouled up the count when Douglas was knocked down in the eighth round, the result was suspended pending meetings of the two organiza­tions' executive committefl. 
As of now, however, the International Boxing Federation considers Tyson a loser and Douglas a champion. The IBF sanctioned the early afternoon fight, but had no representative present because the Japanese Boxing Commission does not recognize it. 
Due to a lack of snow, the Freshman Snow Tubing Trip to St. Patrick's Park, scheduled for Sun., Feb. 11 has been canceled. Refunds will be made on: Tues. Feb. 13th 2:30-4:30 -and-Thurs. Feb. 15th 2:30 -4:30 in the O'Hare Lounge, next to the Information Desk in LaFortune. Please bring ticket and student I D. 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 
4:30 PM ON WEDNESDAY I APRIL 11 
Tyson left the Tokyo Dome without comment, but he re­turned about six hours later for a news conference. 
Perhaps his bruised psyche was somewhat soothed by his belief he had knocked out Douglas in the eighth round :md that he has yet been de­clared a loser-officially by the WBC and WBA. 
"I've lost before," Tyson said. "There's nothing wrong with losing. I can handle it, but I want to lose fairly. I had him out before he had me out." 
Tyson was in trouble along the ropes late in the eighth round when he nailed Douglas with a right uppercut. 
Douglas went down, but got up when Meyran's count reached nine. 
Meyran, however. mistakenly started his count at one instead of picking up the timekeeper's count at four. 
"I just want fair play," Tyson said. I thought legitimately he was out." 
A loss would the 23-year-old Tyson's first since he was beaten by Henry Tillman in the 1984 Olympic Trials and box­offs. 
TOKYO (AP) -Buster  rematch 1s absolutely manda- 
Douglas did the unthinkable,  tory," Sulaiman said.  
but recognition of his shocking  While King did not immedi­ 
knockout of Mike Tyson is be­ ately comment on the contro­ 
ing withheld -at least by the  versy, rival promoter Bob Arum  
World Boxing Council and  of Top Rank Inc. said: "The  
World Boxing Association.  WBA and WBC should be  
Just hours after Douglas' im­ banned. They're totally im­ 
probable 1Oth-round knockout  moral organizations. They're  
of Tyson on Sunday, the presi­ not smart and they offend the  
dents of the WBC and WBA  sensibilities."  
suspended the result pending  Douglas' disputed victory has  
an investigation into a "long  created a wide-open heavy­ 
count" protest lodged by  weight division that for three  
Tyson's promoter Don King.  years had been the personal  
Tyson, knocked out for the  domain of Tyson, who was 37-0  
first time in his pro career, said  with 33 knockouts. It's still un­ 
he's still the champion. "I  dear what will happen next in  
knocked him out before he  the division, although a re­ 
knocked me out," Tyson said.  match between Douglas and  
Douglas, however, said: "Just  Tyson appears likely, especially  
call it a victory for the small  since King promotes both  
man."  fighters. Meanwhile, No. 1 con­ 
While the fight is being called  tender Evander Holyfield  
one of the biggest upsets in  awaits his chance at a title  
boxing history, the "long  fight.  
count" controversy once again  Another contender, George  
has the boxing world in a state  Foreman, was not shocked by  
of confusion.  Tyson's loss.  
A tape of Sunday's heavy­ "That's what happens when  
weight championship fight at  you live the tough life,"  
the Tokyo Dome showed th~t  Foreman said. "In a way, I'm  
because of referee Octa~no  glad things came out the way  
Meyran's error, Douglas was  they did because so many kids,  
on the canvas for 12 seconds  because of Mike Tyson's image,  
after being knocked down late  thing that's the way you can be  
in the eighth round. Two  and come out on top."  
rounds later, Douglas knocked  Randy Gordon, chairman of  
out Tyson.  the New York State Athletic  
Jo~e Sulaiman of Mexico,  Commission, said "it may be  
pres1dent of the WBC, and WBA  the greatest upset of all time,  
president Gilberto Mendoza of  but because this is such a polit­ 
Venezuela, both announced they  ical business, don't be sur­ 
were suspending the result.  prised if a rematch is ordered  
"There is no champion before  immediately."  
Feb. 20," Sulaiman said. The  Tyson was scheduled to de­ 
WBC executive committee will  fend the title against llolyfield  
meet Feb. 20 at Mexico City to  on June 18 at Atlantic City, N.J.  
resolve the controversy.  Holyfield has no contractual  
Natural!~, .there are differ- obligation to fight Tyson, how­ 
ences of opmwn.  ever, if Tyson is not the heavy­ 
" Right now, a~ this point, we  weight champion.  
have to recogmze Douglas as  'Tm the No. 1 contender,"  
champion," Bob Lee, president  Holyfield said on ESPN before  
of the International Boxing  learning of the WBC and WBA  
Federation, said in a telephone interview from his .home i~  actions. "Tyson had his chance and he lost. It's only right fo;  
Fanw.ood, N.J. Lee sa1d the IBF  me to get my opportunity."  
sanctwned the bout as a cham- Douglas did not go to the  
pionship match, but the the  post-fight news conference, but  
Japan Box~ng Commission does  Tyson did. And Tyson said he  
not recogmze the group.  would welcome a rematch with  
While the WBC executive  Douglas.  
committ~e is to meet _next w~ek,  "There's nothing wrong with  
there w1ll be a specml sessiOn  losing, I can handle a Joss, but I  
of the. W~A exec~tive and  want to Jose fairly," Tyson  
champ10nsh1p comm1ttees in a  said. "I want to be the cham­ 
week or 10 days, Mendoza said.  pion of the world. I want fair  
.At a news conference about  play. 1 thought legitimately he  
SIX hours after the early after- was out."  
noon fight, Sulaiman indicated  Douglas had Tyson in trouble  
wh~t cou.rse the two governing  along the ropes when Tyson  
b~~1es m1ght take.  suddenly landed a right upper­ 
When there are problems. a  cut to the jaw.  
"  

~ ;
I 
~ 
5tt ~.:~ 
0 ~\~ 
D(IV£ 
SEC DICK DlJID 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 

r 
I 
l 
~ 
TOKYO (AP) -Four days be­fore he fought Buster Douglas, a bored Mike Tyson told a news conference: "No way I can lose." 
lie was wrong. 
While Tyson still believes he's the heavyweight champion ­even after he was knocked out by Douglas in the 1Oth round Sunday -the previously invin­cible heavyweight now has to deal with a loss, albeit a dis­puted one for now. 
Tyson, who watches films of great fighters of the past, may now look to those former champions as he plans to re­gain the title. 
"Greater fighters than I have lost," Tyson said Sunday night, dark glasses covering his bat­tered face and a closed left eye. 
The end of the fight was a scene to boggle the mind. As he hit the canvas in the lOth, Tyson's mouthpiece popped about 18 inches into the air. He groped for it and put it in his mouth -backwards. 
"The hardest part is coming back from losing to show how tough you are," Tyson said at·a news conference where World Boxing Council and World Boxing Association officials said Iron Mike wasn't lost yet. 
Because referee Octavio 

1""'11'N.6Hifhlnrltor"""n 
lnldh,tl'ncflllhcrr 
l'l?ll~l'M:u"r•nl•fnc:rll 
·•rh<Lnr1«....,.,..,. 
~..cknt•~'""'''.. 
Ifthe press didn't tell us, who \\OO!d? 
roJCL printed LnltlriNIIOfl nn 1~ role ul 1 In:~ pre:'~ and hiM II pruiC'CI~ Y~r riJhh lWIOdiKIJ'\am r~f fl~~' ltMK UJI I he: flr'\1 Amc"ndmc'nl Crn1rr &I 1·800-.S...J.ItJOO 
~OURS: Mon. -Fri. 8:00 -5:30 Sat. 8:00-3:00 jMAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 2112 South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46630 
272-6722 . ' next to C6ach's ' 

-

Monday, February 12, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

ACROSS 25 -overa new 

Monday, February 12 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "A Survey of Algebraic K-theory and Its Applications to Problems in Field Theory," Bill Jacob, University of California, Santa Barbara. Second Floor of Computing Center/Math Building. Coffee at 4 p.m.. Spon­sored by Kenna Lectures in Mathematics. 
7 p.m. Film, "M." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. Admission. 7 p.m. Shakespeare films, "Henry V." Engineering Audi­
torium. Sponsored by Department of English. 
7:30p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting. CCE Room 202. 
9 p.m. Film, "Design for Living." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. Admis­sion. 
Tuesday, February 13 
12 p.m. Noontalk, "Etchings," Richard Diebenkorn. Snite Museum of Art. 
12 p.m. Brown Bag, "The Argentine Church and the Transition to Democracy," Jose Maria Ghio, Faculty Fel­low. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "Understanding and Managing Fam­ily Resources, Tax Paying and Planning," Kevin Misiewicz, Professor of Accountancy. Hesburgh Lounge. Sponsored by Year of the Family. 
C'Mo".' W"M.. ~R't. iO\.l ~r..\1\t-IG­t'CR~ R~'l \JP 
11\£ Cf>..R.' 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Turkey Noodle Casserole 
Cheese Lasagna 
Gyro 
Roast Pork Loin w/ Apples 

BILL WATTERSON 
\NRR'i .' It' ~E ..l\Jtl\1> II'\ n\t: 
CJ\R , '(0\.J c~" zo::t~~. \IP, ~~'S 1Wc. B\IS ON ~ STRMG"I~VJ(),'(, DRCf' tilE 
Gl=t' ~~ f>-LATER '5\tlP, f>."O I C~ RIOE 11-\E B\.15 ~ T\.\t.R.t: ! 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=..~..::;..o..;..&.;'-' 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THAT '5£1TLE5 IT1 :I'M NOT tnO/N(i, ~TO 
5P£Ak' lo YoU AGJAIN 

The deadly couch cobra -coiled and alert in its natural habitat. 


62 Bridge 
63 Fatuous 
64 Solemnly 
declare 65 "... bearded like 
the-": Shak. 66 Isabel was one 67 Fen footing 68 Fruit drinks 69 A component of 
liquor 70 Present for a Me. lad 
DOWN 
1 Defeats 2 Beta predecessor 3 "Fits a dull fighter and ­guest": Shak. 4 Elks congregate here 5 Like James Bond films 
21 Tate offering 34 Concerning 51 Inflections 
6 Valhalla VJP. 
22 Tomorrow's 35 Diamond 53 Certain snow 1 Creche 
preceder developed in jobs

characters 
Brooklyn 54 Carp

26 Samovar a Dido 36 How many 55 Emulate Gaspar 
21 Took a taxi 

9Calm assemble at 56 Emulate ZsaZsa
28 Mrs. Helmer and 
10 Some Canadian Times Square on 57 W.W. I plane 
Mrs. Charles 

provinces, with New Year's Eve? 58 Darnel 
"The" 30 Exactly 38 Big butte 
59-accompli 11 "lt'saSintoTell 31 Odd, in Ayr 41 Beneath 
so British queen or 32 What workers 42 Retreat princess 12 Parts of slaloms enjoy on Jan. 1 47AII 61 Expensive 13 Epoch 33 Disposition 49 Bambi's mom 62 Health resort 
' 

1 Jezebel's deity 
5 Capers 
10 Labyrinth 
14 County site of Sugarloaf Mountain 15 Antarctic cape 16 E P.A. calls this a pesticide 
17 Did a Little job 18 G. Burns's hot companion 
19 Capital of Latvia 
20 Period fondly remembered now 
23 Less unreasonable 24 Gnarl 
leaf 29 Film cutter 33 Place where 
nobody stops on a dime 37 Elbow follower 39 Juliet's emotion 
40 Difference between 20 and 57 Across 
43 Celestial hunter 
44 Another Jan. 1 delight (see 32 Down) 
45 R.b.i.. e.g. 46 Mislead 48 Part of concrete 50 Dispatched 52 "Sesame Street" 
grouch 
-_... 


---~ ~------~------------­
Sports
page 20 Monday, February 12, 1990 
·ns Irish with one more loss on the road 
Poor shooting once again fatal for road-weary NO 
ND swimmers dominate MCC 
University of Houston Sports lmonnanon Craig Upchurch (3) scored 15 points and pulled down a game-high six rebounds to help lead Houston to a key victory over Notre Dame. The loss dropped the Irish to 12-8 with eight games left in the season. 
Houston 

, 
NBC contract reveals lack of ethics by NO 
Although the not all of them have been approving ones. will have enormous ramifications for nchot~s are only Consider the words of Vince Dooley, Ge­college football. faintly a~dible orgia's University's athletic director: "I think this is a positive step for us now, thn source of SCOTT BRUTOCAO "Surprise. Shock. Greed. And ultimate and for intercollegiate athletics," Athletic the disturbance lies greed, that's the reaction I'm getting Director Dick Rosenthal has said. in our backyard. Sports Writer from people." That positive step is more like a broad 
.... 
Notre Dame, Or examine the sentiment of Oval jump. Notre Dame will be receiving a with its multi-mil­Jaynes, Colorado State's athletic direc­surplus of money for NBC's exclusive lion dollar contract tor: "The bottom line is money and it right to televise its horne games. The with NBC over the boils down to one word-greed. Notre money is earmarked for student financial rights to televise Dame wants all the exposure and all the. aid. Notre Dame also will be able to have its home football money." its games televised across the country, games, crnated a Indeed, this negative feeling has been something that Irish fans nationwide will 
the immediate response of certain people applaud. Here is a way to get the na­frenzy in newspaper headlines a-cross when the University of Notre Dame ti<mal exposure necessitated by its broad the country that has ranged from signed a five-year contract with NBC for· base of fans, and to pick up a little extra scathing invective to a half-page spread the rights to televise its home games. money on the side. on the mystique of Notre Dame in USA This resentful attitude has been especially The positive step for intercollegiate Today. acute since ABC signed a contract with athletics might instead be a trip from be­
The most recent development has been the CFA prior to the NBC agreement that hind. No college team has never had its that the College Football Association is assumed Notre Dame would be in the own network, and this aligning of college going to lose about $30 million in its coo­package. Now that the Irish have fled, sports programs with television compa­tract with ABC as a result of Notre ABC is crying foul. nies may set an undesirable precedent. Dame's unexpected departure from the But what does Notre Dame have to No one would like to envision a future CFA television alliance. say? This move that it has just made, this 
All eyes are focusing on the Irish, and unprecedented, groundbreaking motion . 
see NBC I page 13 

. . . . . . -~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Controversy~ 
Mike Tyson gets KO'd by Buster Douglas ...but will it stand up? 
Magic 
East beats West, Johnson named MVP in losing cause. 
Sweep 
-Notre Dame hockey sweeps Lake Forest 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 

HOUSTON -The arenas change, but the luck remains the same for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
The Irish dropped another road contest Saturday after­noon, this time by a 93-82 count to Houston before 7, 763 fans in Hofbeinz Pavilion. 
The loss, the third in the las1 four road games, dropped Notre Dame to 12-8 and also kept the Irish frustrated away from the Joyce ACC. They are just 4-8 on the road and have lost on national television in big games three of the last four weekends to Louisiana State, Duke and the Cougars. 
"What this team hasn't been able to do is go out and grab somebody good," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "This (Houston) is the type of team you play in the first and second rounds (of the tournament). You have to go out and grab one of those teams." 
The Cougars improved to 1 7­6 and enhanced their chances of an at-large berth in the NCAA Tournament. Winning the title in the Southwestern Conference tourney would give 
By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 

Domination was the key word in this weekend's Midwest Collegiate Conference Championships for the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams. Both squads took first place by large margins, setting new conference records and personal best times. 
"The meet was swimming at its most pure," said Irish coach Tim Welsh, who was named Coach of the Meet in the women's division. "It was con­tested at a higher level than ever before, and was exciting for everyone, regardless of team place." 
Evidence of the level of per­formance can be found in the list of MCC records set this weekend. In the 40 events spanning three days, 25 record times were established. Notre Dame set 14 of those marks. 
"Each of the three nights were remarkable," Welsh said. "We had enormous enthusiasm, Houston an automatic bid. 
"It just puts another game under our belt against a team that is rated pretty high," Houston coach Pat Foster said. "Every win is a big win, but a win against a quality opponent like Notre Dame is a plus." 
Once again, the Irish had a sub-par shooting game, while their opponents were on fire. Notre Dame finished at just 4 7 percent (30-of-64) from the floor, and Houston hit 57 per­cent (33-of-58) of its attempts. 
The Irish are shooting 55 percent from the field at home, but that figure drops to 4S pPr­cent on the road. That poor shooting has resulted in several slow starts that have left them in an early hole. 
"They shot 57 percent thn first half and we shot 41," Phelps said. "That's not going to beat people on the road." 
Houston placed six players in double figures, led by guard Byron Smith with 24 points and five assists. Joining Smith in double figures were Craig Upchurch and DPrri<'k DaniPis 
with  15  points  each,  Carl  
llerrare  with  13  and  Alvaro  
Teheran with 12.  
LaPhonso  Ellis  and  Keith  

Hobinson tied for Notm Dame 
and our performance continued to get better over tlw weekend." 
The men won their division with a score of 966, as tlwy set five new conference records. Second-place finisher Evansville followed with 524.5 points. Dave Thoman recordnd an MCC-best time in the 1 00-yard freestyle (46.91 ), and took firs1 place in the 50 freestyle with a time of 21.66. Thomas also was on the winning 400 freestyle relay team, combining with Tom Penn, Jim Birmingham and Mike Messaglia to set a record time of 3:11.59. 
Diver Ed Veome captured both the 1-meter and 3-meter events, scoring a conference­best 465.90 points on the 1-me­ter board. .Junior John Godfrey established records in the 200 (1:56.85) and 100 (54.12) backstrokes. He teamed with Jim Boutrous, Ken Wincko and Steve Tann to take the 400­medley relay with a time of 3:36.91. 
"Thn combination of fresh­men and seniors kept up our high-point honors with 1S each. Ellis had 16 rebounds and Hobinson 11. Senior co-captain Joe Fredrick had 13 points fol­lownd by Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet with 11 each. 

After a 63-49 road victory over Southnrn Methodist last Thursday, Notre Dame started well against the Cougars. The Irish jumped to an S-2 lead as Ellis and Hobinson scornd four points each. But the Cougars battled back to tie the game at 16 and eventually built a 25-17 lead on a Teheran jumper with 
8:36 remaining in th11 first half. 
Trailing 32-24 with 5:07 IPft, the Irish went on an eight-point run to tic the ganw. Hobinson hit four frne throws, Ellis dunked after an offensivP w­bound and Frndrick hit a jumpPr after driving tlw lane. 
But Notre Dame lost ,tlw mo­mentum as quiekly as i1 gained it. Tlw Cougars ran ofT tlw last night points of llw half on thrPP points Ntch from Smith and Upchurch and an outsidP jumpN by DaniPis. 
"Wiwn we tiPd it at :{2, WP had tlw chaneP to make tlw run," Phelps said. "Tiwn llwy rome off with eight straight 
see HOUSTON I page 16 

enPrgy and exritenwnt," Welsh noted. "The gn1at thing about having a big team is that every­one contributes to every ouncP of suecess. It was a total team effort." 
The women's team won their championship by an even larger margin, seoring 1 07S points to seeond place St. Louis' 5R9. 
Freshman Susan Bohdan set a reeord time of 17:51.05 in the 1650 freestyle, and also took the 200 freestyle in 1 :5S.97. Shana Stephens had two indi­vidual first place finishes in the 100 and 200 backstrokes, set­ting conferencn best times of 
1:01.32 and 2:11.24, respPc­tively. 

Sophomorn Jenny Kipp domi­nated the diving nvents by tak­ing the 1 and 3-meter events, with record scores in both competitions of 364.15 and 
398.00. Doubln victories also were achieved by Kay Brodnrick, who triumphed in the 200 and 400-individual 
see MCC I page 13 








