~------~--~~-----------.----------------.----------------------------------------------------,
U: c(J' L­
'C 

; --,­
., 

VOL. XXIII NO. 36 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Police punished for handling of assault 
Special to The Observer 
Two St. Joseph County police officers were suspended with­out pay Thursday for their roles in investigating the Oct. 7 off­campus attack and armed robbery of a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
Cpl. Daniel Wisniewski was suspended for 15 days and Cpl. Donald Gruler for five days for "-conduct unbecoming an offi­cer." 
Sheriff Joseph F. Nagy said in a press release issued Thursday that the suspensions are retroactive to Tuesday. 
Nagy said the suspensions were based on the officers' failure to assist the victim in a professional manner. 
The victim claimed he called the police department, but the responding officers were unwilling to file a report on the incident or call an ambulance. 
The Notre Dame student said he was assaulted with a metal pipe and struggled with the as­sailant, after which the as­sailant ripped off the victim's pocket and took his wallet. 
The victim reported $38, identification and credit cards missing. 
The victim was later taken to St. Joseph's Hospital and re­
Highstepping 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 15. 1990 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
ceived 16 stitches on the top of 
Members of the Irish Guard march past Washington Hall Saturday morning before the game. Their audi­
his head. 

ence stretched from the theater to the stadium. 

Salvadoran earthquake victims are being denied aid 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
The poor families of El Sal­vador have not received any of the international aid sent to re­lieve earthquake victims be­cause of the Salvadoran gov­ernment's intervention, said Lucia Ramirez, a representative of the urban poor of El Sal­vador. 
After the earthquake of Octo­ber 10, 1986, many Salvado­rans found themselves in the street because their low income housing had been destroyed. Although aid arrived from other countries, Ramirez said, the poor did not see any of it. 
"We began to unite and or­ganize ourselves and form committees representing com­munities of homeless families," she sard. "Even with these committees representing us, we were not able to get any of the aid." 
On January 18, 1987, the central committee of the National Union of Earthquake Committee member of UNADES. a Salvadoran human rights organization. 
Victims of  El  Salvador  
(UNADES)  was  formed.  
Ramirez  serves  as  the  
Treasurer  and  Executive  

Because threats of removal remained constant, many poor Salvadoran families decided to join together and look for va­cant lots. Eventually Ramirez and 39 other families found a lot in front of the presidential theater in one of the wealthiest communities. On the fifth of September 1987, 40 families arrived on the lot and named the community "Fifth of September, #1." 
However, elements of the armed forces quickly arrived at the lot. "Through the press, we asked for support from inter­national and national organiza­tions that we be allowed to stay on that piece of land," Ramirez said. 
Although they were allowed to remain on the lot, the munic­ipal police took more than half of the supplies that they had received from humanitarian organizations. "The govern­ment that we were hoping to receive supplies from sent peo­ple to come and take the sup­plies away from us," she said. 
"This is one example of how one community was formed, but many of the other commu­nities were formed in the same way, facing the same obsta­cles," Ramirez said. "And we never received any of the inter­national humanitarian aid." 
Ramirez said she noticed that each of the communities had a need for basic necessities such as drinkable water, electricity, and sanitary services. After the national water company and city government refused to help them, the community took the initiative to connect water pipes to the city's water system. 
As they were digging trenches, the armed forces ar­rived and began asking ques­tions. When they asked who 



Students rap 

The Observer!Macy Hueckel 
N~ stud~nt group M.C. Bones performs some "stone cold rhyming" at the annual Sorin Talent Show on 
Fnday n1ght. 

gave them permission to do this, the families said, "Necessity gave us permission." 
The repression has also been severe, she said. "Because of our successes, the government and armed forces gained a cer­tain amount of respect, a little bit of fear, and some hate for us," Ramirez said. 
On July 18, 1989, the police ransacked UNADES' office and took everything, including Ramirez and fourteen others. "We were there for 72 hours without sleeping, without eat­ing, or without drinking a drop of water, with continuous beat­ings and tortures," Ramirez said. 
"They repress us because we say we have a lot of needs, and we are hungry," she said. 
Due to international pressure, the government returned most of the supplies they had taken from the office. However, they returned to the office on November thirteen and re­mained there for five months. 
"We find ourselves again with nothing as we began," she said, "But this time at least we have experience." Now, UNADES continues forward and are now looking for new support, said Ramirez. 
Ramirez' lecture titled "Democracy Beyond the Ballots: a Campaign for Democracy through Community Self­Development in El Salvador," was part of her one month tour of the United States. Ramirez hopes to raise funds for a Vo­cational Community School to empower poor communities in El Salvador and other self-de­velopment projects of UNADES. She also hopes to generate active U.S. support for a negotiated solution to the war in El Salvador. 
A worker on a North Ameri­can campaign in support of UNADES translated Ramirez' lecture. The Center for Social Concerns and the local branch of the Pledge of Resistance sponsored the lecture. 

More students choosing to reside off-campus 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 

The number of Notre Dame students living off-campus has increased in the 1990-91 school year, with the largest increase taking place among senior fe­males, according to figures re­leased by the Office of Student Residences. 
The total number of off­campus students for the 1990­91 school year is 1157; 515 of these are senior males and 129 are senior females. 
1085 undergraduate students lived ofT-campus in the 1989-90 school-year, according to these same figures. Of this total, 512 were senior males and only 82 were senior females. 
This rise in the number of students living off-campus is 

OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
FIRST OF A THREE PART SERIES 

not due to an unavailability of on-campus housing, according to Evelyn Reinebold, the direc­tor of Student Residences. 
While there are waitiu'.! lists for on-campus housing. •hese lists are comprised of tra.nsft:r students, students who got stuck in leases, and students who are returning from foreign study programs conducted through other universities. Nor are these waiting lists unman­ageable, according to Reine bold. 
see HOUSING I page 7 
Monday, October 15, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


NO-Miami '88: stiII exciting after two years 
They said that even the weather was in their favor. Brent Musburger and Pat Hayden had given the game to Miami before anyone came out of the tunnel. But wflen 


it was over. they Michael Muldoon called it the Game of Art Director the Century. 
It was two years ago today. October 15, 1988, that Notre Dame defeated the number-one Miami Hur­ricanes in what is colloquially known as The Game of the Century. It seemed like everyone on this campus was among the 59,075 in the stadium. At least, that's how it looked on television. 
Now, I never watched much Notre Dame football before I came here. I knew about 58-7 and 24-0, thanks to my wonder-alum dad. When I rooted for Miami in the 1987 Fiesta Bowl-cool uniforms, man-Dad nearly threw me out of the house. 
The week before The Game, there was no way that I could get as jacked up as my fel­low students. In my infinitely freshman naivete, I flew home Friday. Telling my roommates, "We're gonna lose anyway." I sold my game ticket for $30 and took off. 
Miami was untouchable. They were Na­tional Champions, and just too good. But I saw something happen on TV that day. Tony Rice scampered into the end zone, 7-0. Pat Terrell flew down the sideline on an in­terception return, 21-7. 
Later. right after Brent said, "Wouldn't it be something if it came down to the two­point conversion?" I saw Andre Brown, all by himself in a corner of the end zone, catch a bullet, 31-30, and The Game was nearly theirs. 
Then, quicker than you could figure out what was going on, Steve Walsh's arm be­came a blur. and the ball was airborne, headed for Leonard Conley. 
A blue jersey jumped and hung in the air, and when he came down Pat Terrell was swallowed by the crowd. All I remember of the next 45 seconds is my dad yelling, "We beat those --" and an image of Tony Rice with his arms raised in victory. 
For almost two years I've regretted miss­ing that game. I've read every article writ­ten on The Game. I've done drawings of ev­ery aspect of The Game, and I even went down to see us play Miami last November. 
I always hoped that doing all this could make up for not being at Notre Dame Sta­dium on October 15, 1988. Now. however. I've quit trying. I'm as much a part of that win as anyone in that stadium, or watching on TV, or hearing the score on the radio the next day. It was a Notre Dame victory. 
No matter what happens this Saturday, or for the rest of the season. remember, wher­ever you were two years ago today, no one can take 31-30 away from you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  
Production  Accent  Business  
Michelle Wood  Shonda Wilson  Jay Colucci  
Karen Newtove  Paul Pearson  Christine Walsh  
Lisa Eaton  Colleen Gannon  
News  
Peter Loftus  Circulation  
Christine Stephan  Bill O'Roukrke  
Rene Ferran  Man Novak  Ad  Design  
Joy Harris  
Tony Paganelli  
Sports  Systems  Anita Covelli  
Ken Tysiac  Amalia Meier  Lisa Gunsorek  
Fritz Valsaint  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproductiOn rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, MONDAY, Oct. 15. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

OF INTEREST 

Oversees Development Network has a Call for Auditions foi-Tom Stoppard's Meeting tonight, Monday. at 6:00 pm in the C.S.C. We will "Rosencrantz and Guildstern are Dead" will be held be discussing our activities for the rest of the fall. Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 17-18 at 7 p.m. in the Old including tutoring Central American refugees. Please Band Room in the Basement of Washington Hall. Anyone come. who cannot make these nights should contact Gerry Smith 
at 232-7269. 
WORLD 

Police have rounded up 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's party strengthened its dozens of Moslem extremists and for­dominant national position Sunday with a near sweep in eigners suspected of involvement in the elections across former East German territory in Berlin. assassination of the parliament projections showed Kohl's conservative Christian speaker. including 25 Palestinians and Democrats took four out of the five eastern states, Iraqis in Cairo. newspapers reported adding momentum for national elections Dec. 2 and giv­Monday. But Iraq denied any involve­ing the party control of both houses of Parliament. pre­ment in the killing of Speaker Rifaat liminary returns indicated. "The Dec. 2 elections have not el-Mahgoub, his driver aQd four been won. the results will come on Dec. 2," Kohl said. security men Friday in Cairo. The official Iraqi News "But we are in a good starting position." Agency said the reports linking Iraq to the slayings were "based on the promotion of lies" and meant to "cover up popular -indignation" against Egypt's support of the U.S.­led forces in the Persian Gulf region. 
NATIONAL 

Leonard Bernstein, the impassioned American American Telephone & Telegraph Co. has cut maestro who thrilled an international multitude with his short its offer for U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia to call spirited shows "On the Town" and "West Side Story," his home for free, disappointing soldiers who said the calls podium pirouettes and his hundreds of recordings, died boosted morale. The troops racked up so many calls that Sunday in New York at age 72. Bernstein was a conduc-Saudi communications officials complained their long-dis­tor. pianist, educator, author and composer. His compo-tance lines were being clogged. After just one week. and sitions included the theatrical, chamber music, sym-an estimated 100,000 calls at a cost of $1 million, AT&T phonies, ballet and even a Mass. on Wednesday notified the military it was scrubbing its 
free. direct-dial service, spokesman David Bikle said Sun-
A savings and loan became insolvent after lending day. President Bush's son Jeb and a partner about half the money toward purchase of a $9 million office building, About 200 inmates suffered food poisoning symp­and the federal government ended up repaying most of toms at Martin Correctional Institution, lndiantown,Fla. the loan. a newspaper reported Sunday. The New York The inmates had eaten a spaghetti dinner, and 21 of Times reported that the loan arrangement involved no them were escorted to the hospital in chains or handcuffs, criminal behavior, but stood as an example of some sav-the prison said Sunday. State health officials planned to ings institutions' poor lending practices that led to the in-visit the prison near Indiantown, about 25 miles north­dustry's troubles. west of West Palm Beach, on Monday. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On October 15: 

MARKET UPDATE Porter County's homeless people soon 

eln 1860: 11-year-old Grace will have a place to take shelter: A Christian 
Bedell of Westfield, N.Y., wrote a letter to presidential candidate Abraham Lincoln, suggesting he would look better 
group is going to put them up in a mo­
tel:Christian Community Action, a group provid­
if he were to grow a beard.

ing referral services for people in need of housing 
eln 1928: The German dirigible
or other support, has purchased the Spring Val­
Graf Zeppelin landed in Lakehurst, N.J., 
ley motel on U.S. 30 in Valparaiso with the idea 
on its first commercial flight across the
of turning it into a homeless shelter that will ac­
Atlantic.

commodate 15-20 people at a time. NYSE Index 
eln 1937: The Ernest Hemingway164.42 {} 2.22 
novel "To Have and Have Not" was first 
S&P Composite 

published.A Vevay man was in custody Sunday after 300.03 11 4.57 
eln 1946: Nazi war criminal
Dow Jones Industrials 

plowing a bulldozer through a school just outside 
Hermann Goering poisoned himself one that southern Indiana town State police said 46-2,398.02 {j-32.92 
day before he was to be executed. 
year-old Jerry Sample has been charged with in­
eTen years ago: Lawrence R.
Precious Metals

stitutional criminal mischief after tearing up the 
Klein of the Wharton School of theGold {t $2.20 to $387.50 I oz. 
University of Pennsylvania was named Craig Elementary School. Sgt. McKinney said of­Silver~ 7.01¢ to $4.306/ oz. 
gymnasium and some classrooms at Jefferson­
the winner of the Nobel Prize for 
economics. Source: AP 
ficers "had no idea" why Sample did it. Sample 
was being held in the Switzerland County Jail. 
Monday, October 15, 1990 
page 3
The Observer 

Writing course added to Arts & Letters musts 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Th~ Arts and LettPrs Advisory Council has voted to mquire all students in the College of Arts and Letters to take an intensive writing course prior to gradua­tion. 
MichaPI Loux. dean of the College, said the program will begin with next year's incoming freshman and that the change will not affect students presently enrolled in the col­lege. 
The recommendation for the course was made by the Com­mittee on the Quality of Under­graduate Education, which is chaired by Associate Dean. Jennifer Warlick. 
"There is a consensus across the college that we do a good job teaching writing in the freshman and sophomore years," said Loux. "We have the Freshman Writing Program and the Sophomore Core Course, but there's a concern that we've paid less attention to the skills of writing in the junior and senior years." 
The Writing Intensive Course will bP a one semester, three­credit course related to the student's major. The class will be a "smaller course in the ma­jor which will focus heavily on writing," said Loux. 
"Each department will engage in discussion within the department to precisely define what its writing intensive pro­gram will require," he said. 
Each department will deter­mine the number of papers the students write, the kind of stu­dent teacher interaction neces­sary for the course, the stan­dards required for the papers, and the page length. The de­partments will then send their requirements to Loux for his approval. 

The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Cheer for old Notre Dame 
The Notre Dame Glee Club performs at the J.A.C.C. Saturday morning before the ND-Air Force football game. The concert was one of several evetlts scheduled for parents' weekend. 


Former ND research chief and science dean dies at 91 


Special to The Observer Dame following seven years as of Standards, Washington, D.C., 
dean of the College of Science, rising to the position of chief of lie also maintained 
FredPrick Rossini. Notre associate dean of the Graduate the section of thermochemistry memberships in the Dame's first vice-president for School and professor of and hydrocarbons. Philosophical Society of resParch and ·sponsored chemistry. Washington, the Albertus programs and former dean of lie was a member of the Magnus Guild, the Catholic Notre Damp's College of SciPnce lie left Notre Dame in 1971 as National Academy of Sciences Association for International died Sunday of pneumonia in professor emeritus and joined and the American Academy of Peace, Phi Lambda Epsilon, the Juno BPach. Fla .. at tlw age of the faculty of Hice University, Arts and Sciences and a fellow Cosmos Club in Washington, 
91. He was an internationally remaining there, first as of the American Association for D.C., and the Franklin Institute. known authority on petroleum professor of chemistry and then the Advancement of Science, chPmistry. as professor emeritus in the American Physical Society A native of Monongahela, Pa., 
residence, until 1 97S. and the American Institute of Hossini held undergraduate and Hossini in 196 7 assumed the Chemists. master's degrees from Carnegie
University's highest honor,
leadership of research and In 1965 he received Notre Tech, and a doctorate in 
. which has been conferred
sponsored programs at Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the During his career, Rossini chemistry from the University
annually since 1883 on an 
served as president of Sigma Xi, of California at Berkeley.
outstanding American Catholic 
the Washington Academy of 
layperson. lie was the second
-------------------------· 
I The Castle & Co. I Sciences, the Permanent lie lecture under the auspices 
scientist to receive the coveted 
Council of the World Petroleum of numerous colleges
I I 
award and the first person to 
Congresses. the Associated universities and professional
be so honon~d while serving on
: Men's Hairstyling 1 Midwest Universities, and the organizations in this country
the Notre Dame faculty. 

Albertus Magnus Guild and was and abroad.I YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, I a past chairman of the Catholic lie came to Notre Dame in
I WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? I Commission on Intellectual and He was given the National 
1960 after a ten-year 
Cultural Affairs. Medal of Science in 1977.
I Haircut. Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition : association with the Carnegie 
Among other honors he 
Institute of Technology.
I I $ I In addition. he was a membP.r received were honoraryI Reg. 15.00 I Pittsburgh, Pa .. where he was of the American Chemical doctorates from six schools,
Silliman professor and head of Society, the American Institute including Carnegie Tech. and
I Now $8.50 with 1 
the department of chemistry, as 
of Chemical Engineers, the Notre Dame; the Hillegrand
I {. I well as director of the chemical
coupon American Petroleum Institute, award of the Chemical Society1 1 and petroleum research the American Society for of Washington, DC; the John
I .. MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1 laboratory. 
Engineering Education, the Price Wetherill Medal of the I 272-0312 277-1691 I Chemical Society, the Franklin Institute , and the 
From 1928 to 1950 he was a
54533 Terrace Lane Geochemical Society. Phi Kappa Priestly Medal of the American
I ~ 1 
scientist at the National Bureau
1 Theta and Tau Beta Pi. Chemical Society. 
Across from Martin's
•s•••••••••••••••••••••••• 


We're < ,, Fighting For Your Life. 
' 

American Heart A Association ~




GRAND OPENING 

A WEEK OF EXCITING SALES & EVENTS 
Located 1f2 Block South ofl SR 23 on Ironwood COME IN TO REGISTER FOR THE LAS VEGAS DRAWING GRAND PRIZE· Las Vegas Drawing, October 25-28, 1990. See store for details. FREE PRIZES ALL WEEK LONG ... 
WE CARRY SOFTWARE FOR: IBM AMIGA APPLE MACINTOSH 
• Computers • Peripherals • Plus a complete selection of books & magazines 

(219) 272-5484 
1724 N. Ironwood Suite B ...... South Bend, IN 46635 
~-------­
' SERVING YOUR MICROCOM•P-U,.T,.,.ER"""' NEEDS SINCE 1980 

CLUB COLUMN 
OCTOBER 15-19, 1990 
Amnesty International Group #43 will meet at 7 p.m. in the C.S.C. on Monday, October 15. Speaker: Tom Dickson on victims of torture. Letter: Action against abused children in Guatemala. 
SMC Italian Club will have a meeting at 7:00p.m. in 144 Regina. A guest speaker will talk about Italian Art. Bring $6 dues. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 
eage 4 
Special to The Observer 
The Office of University Com­puting announces the opening of four new computer clusters on campus and the renovation of five existing clusters. The new Notre Dame computing fa­cilities, located in Fitzpatrick, Hayes-Healy, Nieuwland, and the Computing Center/Math Building, add 147 workstations to the total a vail able for the Notre Dame community's use. 
These labs contain a variety of different computers to meet the needs of Notre Dame's stu­dents, faculty and staff. Each lab accommodates different computer systems which may provide access to Macintosh, Zenith and IBM microcomput­ers; Sun SPARC station and NeXT workstations; and access to the IBM and Convex main­frame systems. Software packages which are available on lab computer networks in­clude word processing, spread­sheet, graphics and database applications. 
People may use their own software in the labs if it is compatible with available com­puters. The more powerful mi­crocomputers. workstations, and mainframes provide pro­gramming languages, statistical packages, high-end graphics, and advanced scientific and engineering tools. All members of the Notre Dame community with valid IDs may use the computer labs. 
Cluster growth was spurred by the 1986 Task Force on Computing report detailing a plan for developing new direc­tions for computing at Notre Dame. "We envision publicly accessible clusters of worksta­tions located in academic building .... to be the primary mode of access to computing resources for most undergrad­uate students," wrote the task force in its report to the Provost. 
A ratio of 20 undergraduate students per workstation was determined a reasonable target by the task force. By the end of this fall semester (with the ad­dition of a cluster in Campus Security), the ratio will be reached. The report defined workstation "as a generic term for single-user environment. ...Workstations range from simple terminals to high-pow­ered stand-alone microcomput­ers." 
Campus computing resources include 189 Macintoshes, 65 DOS computers. 117 Unix workstations and 34 dedicated terminals with 41 printers and plotters available in 10 campus clusters. Another cluster also is planned for the DeBartolo classroom building when it is 
I 1 . ' ' 
The Observer Monday, October 15, 1990 
,--------~---·--------~---------, 
LEGEND 
D Campus Security llJ Nieuwland Science EJ Architecture EJ O'Shaughnessy Hall lEI Fitzpatrick Engineering [] Hesburgh Library D Hayes-Healy I!J Computing Center/ 
Math Building 
SOURCE: Office of
l3 LaFortune Student Center 
University Computing 
,!\ ,,--,1.....,-,i /• .......-::~~­
,H. ._ r_. . l u , .M.... ·1 0::1 1 ene :::: ,:, vv e e i ~­Oct 15 
"•..• n 1 • ·=c r·· --i •..•.-. · 't-'L i f o .-. +. , ' -.
D . . t -·-~ ,_ • I..J 1 IJ ,_.. ; I ' '4 ·=~ ·-~j t ~ } 
r...,·:. i.-' ' ,., ;1 r--t) L-.1,-. c. .-. .-~ r· .-i r· t •---1 -,...!'. -r--1 1 -••
lut,lil~ '-· J: :_.r::-:: ijl_ .:f!ji,!f..: .ij, d ::; !_.u, ,ege 
(opens in Nov.). 
For further information about campus computing facilities, please contact the Information Resource Center, room 111 Computing Center/Math Building, phone 239-8111. 



'~.' ,,,,
To"'h'~
Give to the United Way. 
... 
.--r-\.. l--k-
The Observer/Sean Donnelly, Alison Cocks 
•./'• 
tlappy 22nd Birthday. ·~ 
Elizabeth Anne Crisp 


We re proud of you! Mom ~Dad 
.it,~ 0'14.~~16-!Jth .9 &/!ft;•tffr (~.-4.JHIJI_ori_lllli adtniM!M$1: '"' ( -.....--.") 
....... ,i 

Monday, October 15, 1990 The Observer page 5 

Up-up and away 
AP Photo 
John Mudimon of greater Cincinnati tosses a dwarf, who calls himself Little Mr.. T, in a dwarf tossing contest Thursday night at a suburban Cincinnati pool hall. The contestant to throw the dwarf the farthest receives $200 in cash. 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 

OCTOBER 20, 1990 

On the evening of Octobe1· 20 last year. Zheng-de Wang, a Notre Dame graduate student from Tianjin, China, wasstruckdown byacarwhile walking on Notre Dame Avenue. Zheng-de had already received his , master's degree in sociology, was· ·•· · . pursuing a doctoral degree and was hoping ((; obtain a from Notre Dame for what would cenainly have been a distinguished career in international law. Uninsured at the time of the accident, Zheng-de was severely injured and comatose for sen·1·almonths. Now confined to a wheelchair and underg<'>ing therapv, Zheng-de is able to recognize old friends and to move his fingers for rudimentary communication, but his recovery is 
far from complete and far from 'certain. ' 
Profil'i derived from the sales of this T -shirt will be donated to Zheng-de's family for the enormous expenses this tragedy has inflicted on them. 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO. DESK, BOOKSTORE, PRO SHOPS, & G.S.U. OFFICE (307 LA FORTUNE) 
PROCTER & GA 
E 





FINANCE 

Water gun battle will be part of Student Government's fundraiser 
By MIKE SCARSELLA 
News Writer 
A campus-wide water gun game called GOTCHA will be part of Student Government's annual fund raising drive to benefit the South Bend United Way. 
The events began with a dessert reception on Saturday for parents and students. 
"The dessert reception was a great success with about $500 going to the United Way," said Kristin Costello, the executive coordinator of special projects. The reception included performances by the glee club and two jazz band combos. 
Individual dorms will be responsible for the majority of the drive. The Student Govern­ment hopes to get at least fifty cents from each student. 
Each dorm will decide the way it wants to go about collecting the money. As a mo­tivating force, a VCR will be given to the dorm that raises the highest percentage of money. 
"The dorm proceeds could make or break the entire drive," said Costello. Money will be collected through Mon­day October 29th. 
GOTCHA will be started in the hope of raising additional money for the cause. Sign up for GOTCHA will take place in the dining hall today through Friday. A one dollar donation is necessary to play the game.. 
A participant receives a name of someone else playing the game. He or she then finds that person and shoots him/her with a squirt ,gun. He or she then takes on the eliminated person's name. The cycle con­tinues until only one person is left. The winner receives $75. 

The goal for this year's drive is $3500. "The drive will be a success and I am very op­timistic about the whole thing," said Costello. 
The money will benefit the Big Brothers/Big Sisters and the Logan Center of South Bend. Notre Dame has stipulated that the donated money may not be used for projects that go against Catholic morals. 
"The United Way has been a long standing tradition here at Notre Dame and we hope to make this years drive as good a success as the drives in the past," said Costello. 
Law school caravan stops at Notre Dame 

By MICHAEL MASONE 
News Writer 
A traveling presentation of various law schools throughout the country will stop at Notre Dame Tuesday. The event, called the Law School Caravan, will feature admissions repre­sentatives from 75 law schools nationwide. 
The Caravan is co-sponsored by the Career and Placement Services and the Pre-Law Soci­ety. Admissions representatives will offer information on: 
• admissions criteria; 
• 
characteristics of each par­ticular school; 

•special 
programs and oppor­tunities available; 


• job placement figures. 
The Caravan has been held annually for several years, but this year's number of visiting representatives (75) is substan­tially larger than the usual number of thirty or forty. Most of the nation's top law schools will be represented, among them Michigan, Duke, Yale, Notre Dame, Wake Forest, Northwestern, and Southern California. 
Information criteria 


DAVID 
The people ofProcter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can learn more about you. 




You Are Invited to Attend Date: Monday, October 15, 1990 
a Presentation 

Time: 7:00PM

We encourage casual dress­
please come as you are Place: University Club, Upper Lounge 
Refreshments and food to follow 
scores, a student's undergradu­ate record, and median G.P.A. No specific applications will be made available, as this is merely an informational session designed to answer questions. 
Notre Dame is only one stop on the Caravan's journey. Be­fore arriving on campus Tues­day, it will be at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, and then will travel to Indiana Uni­versity at Bloomington on Wednesday. 
The Caravan is open and en­courages anyone with an inter­est, students from freshman to senior year, as well as faculty advisors to attend. It will be possible to pick up dozens of brochures and pamphlets within an hour. 
The Law School Caravan will 
be held on Tuesday, October 16, 
from 10:30 to 2:30 at Stepan 
Center. 
German mail addresses ann,.,unced 
Special to The Observer 
The Postal Administration of the Federal Republic of Ger­many has announced the fol­lowing information of address­ing mail to the unified Ger­many. 
Effective October 3, 1990, the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) unites with the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany) and becomes the Federal Republic of Ger­many. In the united Germany, cities in the East and West sec­tors will have similar postal codes. Until a new postal num­bering system is adopted, mail­ers should observe the follow­ing procedure to distinguish the postal codes in the two postal sectors. 
Postal codes for addressf in the East postal territory sh uld be preceded by the letter 0 Ost is the German word for Ec.st). Codes in the West postal terri­tory should be preceded by the letter W. A hyphen follows the postal alpha code W or 0. 
Proper addressing formats for the West and East postal sections follow. The country name for both sectors is the Federal Republic of Germany. 
•West 
Postal Territories: name, address, W-5300 Bonn 1 or W-1000 Berlin 12, Federal Republic of Germany. 

•East 
Postal Territories: name, address, 0-7010 Leipzig or 0-1020 Berlin. Federal Re­public of Germany. 


Monday, October 15, 1990
page 6 The Observer 

day mission in this photo released by NASA Thursday. Cabana, his foot anchored in a foot restraint, prepares to shoot some motion pictures. 



Town stages underwear celebration 
PIQUA, Ohio (AP) -Wearing underwear -and nothing else -in public is becoming a proud tradition in this western Ohio town's annual "Made in Piqua" parade. 
This weekend's two-day Great Outdoor Underwear Festival was the community's third. 
Patricia Cunningham Flesh, grand marshal of Sunday's festival parade, said underwear has been good to her family and the community. She is the widow of Alfred Flesh, whose father, Leo, founded the Atlas Underwear Co. 
Mrs. Flesh, 83, considers it a duty to her community and the family name to take part in the parade. 
"Where else would you put underwear but on flesh?" she said. 
The hour-long parade each year includes about 100 units -at least one of which touts the virtues of underwear. 
Organizers cautioned that the 
parade is a family affair. Risque 
lingerie is not welcome. 




$ $ $ 
MEDICAL SCHOOL 
WHO WILL PAY YOUR EXPENSES? 
The Navy will, because the Navy has a medical school scholarship program for you. So you can devote full time to your studies and let the Navy take care of the finances. The real benefit to you is that the program pays all of your tuition and fees, reimburses you for books and supplies and gives you a stipend. If you have been accepted to or you are already attending medical school, you can start your application for a Navy scholarship now. 
A Navy Medical Re;>resentative will be at the Pre-Med Office 
on Tuesday, October 16 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. with information 
for scholarships. A Navy Medical Representative will be at the 
Placement Office on Wednesday, Octobet 17 from 10 -4. for inter 
views. For additional information call toll free 1-800-553-1147. 
TWO-, THREE-, AND FOUR-YE~ SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
.A'TV OFFICER You and the Navy,
N

il.l I Full Speed Ahead. 
ABC will apologize for ad slighting Cleveland 
CLEVELAND (AP) -ABC television will try to soothe bruised feelings in Cleveland stemming from a joke in a promotion for the situation comedy "Coach," the mayor's office says. 
Robert A. Iger, president of ABC Entertainment, promised to air an apology the night of Oct. 22, when ABC broadcasts the Cleveland Browns' home game against the Cincinnati Bengals, a statement by Mayor Michael R. White's office said Saturday. 
When the Browns played in Denver against the Broncos on Oct. 8, the network broadcast a brief promotion for "Coach." 
Actor Jerry Van Dyke, who plays an assistant college foot­ball coach on the series, com­mented that even if the Browns beat Denver, they would still lose "because they have to go back to Cleveland." 
White sent a letter to ABC, calling thfl remark insensitive and disrespectful to the city. 
"Any comedian or comedy show that uses Cleveland as the punch line for a joke has never visited our city and is relying on what has been for years the crutch of feeble comedians," White said in his letter to ABC. 
IACCOUNTING SENIORS I 
PLANNING TO TAKE THE MAY 1991 CPA EXAM ARE INVITED TO ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING TO DISCUSS 

THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 

STUDENT DISCOUNT AVAILABLE 
Registration must be received by October 19 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS Room 137 Hayes-Healy 
239-5285 





THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW & GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 
A Lecture 



BY WILLIAM J. BENNETT Director 

OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY ON ''Modernity and the Care of Our Children" Wednesday, October 17 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Monday, October 15, 1990 The Observer page 7 
major, originally had no option but living off-campus. 



Housing 
continued from page 1 "Housing is limited to first­born Domers, and l am a natu­ralized Domer," he said. Now 
'There are 107 males on the Raymond says that he would 
waiting-list for on-campus not move on campus even if he housing. We've taken care of all could. females that wanted on for this fall, although there is a female Whatever the individual moti­
waiting list for spring and next vations for living off-campus, fall," said Reinebold. ' the Office of Student Residences is available as a resource for all Those students who have off-campus students, and all moved off-campus and continue students planning to move off­to live off-campus want to be campus should consider con­off-campus, she said. tacting them, according to 
Reinebold. 

Cecelia Burger. a senior an­thropology and psychology "We keep a listing of places double-major who moved off­in the community available for campus two years ago, de­rent. When they are rented, scribed her decision to move they are crossed off the list," off-campus. she said. 
"I was looking for a place not "We do not contact the 
affiliated with Notre Dame," landlord, and we do not inspect she said. "I wanted to be on my the apartment or house," said own. It does give me a place to Reinebold. "All we are is a physically remove myself from listing service the stress of campus." 
The student has to use his or 

Because he was a transfer her own judgment. We also student, senior David Raymond, have a sample lease that all a biology and french double-students should see." 
The Observer/Alison Cocks 
PLO chief hi.nts at Saddam's 'flexibility' in the Gulf crisis 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel said on Sunday it rejected the 
U.N. decision to investigate the Israeli shooting of 19 Palestini­ans on the Temple Mount and would not cooperate if the world body sends a delegation. 
The decision came after a four-hour meeting of Israel's Cabinet and was announced by Foreign Minister David Levy. 
Israel radio reported the Cabinet turned down Housing Minister Ariel Sharon's pro­posal to block U.N. investigators from entering the country. 
Levy, speaking on Israel ra­dio. said the government "unanimously rejected the deci­sions" Friday of the U.N. Secu­rity Council and "determined its refusal to accept such a mis­sion." 
The Cabinet's rejection came despite a recommendation from Israel's U.N. delegation, which advised accepting the mission in order to prevent a con­frontation with the United Na­tions and the United States. 

Asked what would happen if members of the mission arrive despite Israel's decision, Levy said: 
"I don't know if they would come at all. The government has made a decision and it's obligatory." 
Other ministers indicated that Israel would not block the ar­rival of the U.N. group but would not cooperate with it. 
"We have refused to meet any members of the delegation," said Religious Affairs Minister Avner Shaki. 
The Security Council on Fri­day condemned Israel and de­cided to send a team under Sec­retary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to investigate the slay­ings. Israeli troops on Monday fired live ammunition at Pales­tinian protesters on the Temple Mount, known in Arabic as Haram ai-Sharif, or Noble En­closure. Haram al-Sharif is considered Islam's third holiest shrine. 

Israel maintains its police were provoked by Palestinian rioters who threw rocks from the Moslem compound on the Temple Mount at Jews worship­ing at the adjacent Western Wall, also known as the Wailing Wall. 



ATTENTION STUDENTS INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL: 
The LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN will be 
held on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16 From 10:30 to 2:30 at STEPAN CENTER. Representatives from over 75 law schools will be present--including Yale, Michigan, Duke, and Northwestern 
Business 
page 8 Monday, October 15, 1990 
Student housing: Weighing the options 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Business Writer 
Students find that living ofT-campus is less expensive, and often a more enjoy­able alternative to living on-campus in dormitories. 
According to several students living off-campus, the cost of rent, utilities, food, gas, and other expenses is gener­ally cheaper than paying the standard room and board for on-campus hous­ing. 
On-campus housing costs vary greatly between undergraduate and graduate students. 

OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
Room and board (which includes room, meal plan, the maid service, and other services) for an undergraduate student costs either $1657.50, $1682.50, or $1707.50 per person per semester, which varies from dorm to dorm and room to room, said Kathleen Holcomb of the Office of Student Ac­counts. 
"The room itself has a rate associated with it," and each person in the room could be paying any of the three rates, said Holcomb. This rate depends pri­marily on the number of people in the room, the size, and the configuration, according to Jim Lyphout, associate vice president of Business Affairs. 
Graduate student housing for males in Brownson and St. Joseph's Halls costs $650 per person per semester for the room only. Females in O'Hara­Grace Townhouses pay $686.50 per person for the room, plus $167.50 for 
utilities.  Married  students  ran  be  
housed  in  the  University Village  for  
$182 per unit per month.  

Housing fees are directed to a general fund "to support food service operation 

ON -CAMPUS HOUSING 
Per Semester 
and dormitory maintenance," said Lyphout. 
OfT campus housing costs vary: 
• Campus View apartments, which are furnished and include utilities, range from $450 pPr month for one bedroom and $920 per month for two brdrooms. 
• 
Turtle Creek apartments start at $375 per month for a furnished effi­ciency (a one-bedroom apartment), and $515 per month for a two bedroom townhouse. 

• 
Castle Point apartments vary from $381 per month for one bedroom to 



$542 per month for a three-room apartment. 
• 
Lafayette Square apartments range from Pfliciencies costing $270 a month to two bedroom units costing $370 a month. 

• 
Off-campus houses vary greatly. with rents ranging from $200 pPT month for two bt>drooms to $450-500 per month for five bedrooms. 


Generally, several students will divide the rent for an apartment or house and share other major expenses, such as utilities, food and even car expenses. Over one-third of all Notre Dame se­niors and 15 percent of all undergradu­ates live off-campus. 
Dave McDonald, a senior living in Lafayette Square, found that he "can eat cheaper [by buying food at the store[ than at the dining hall." He felt he was losing money by paying for meals and then skipping some of them throughout the course of the semester. 
While food is the primary extra ex­pense, most students find that, whetlwr eating out or cooking at home, they spend roughly $25 a week on food_. 
Over all, students said that they found the cost for room and board off-cam­pus approximately equal to or cheapPr than on-campus accommodations. Cost. however, is not the .primary reason stu­dents !Pave campus housing. 
"Living in the dorm is like living at home," said McDonald. "We wanted our own freedom... [Living off campus means] taking care of yourself and be­ing on your own." 
Off-campus accommodations provide more room, freedom, and a change from three years of dormitory life, said several students living off-campus. 
"We decided to move off-campus to enjoy our senior year... basically for a change." said David Swihart, a senior living in Turtle Creek. "Although I spend all day on-campus... it's good to have an apartment to go back to." 
Many stmiors remain on-campus pri­marily for conv(•niem·e aNllor becausl' of an attachment to the social atmo­sphere of dormitory life, according to senior Mike Sullivan. 

Wall Street veteran takes to the pulpit 
NEW YORK (APl-The in­my first day will seem like a coming chairman of the New piece of cake." York Stock Exchange took Donaldson's brief trans­to the pulpit at a cathedral formation into preacher 
Sunday and denounced the stemmed from a rally at the materialism of the 1980s, eathedral last May during the "deeadc of abundance." which Mayor David Dinkins 
William II. Donaldson, called on civic leaders "to who will take office formally help restore faith and in January. delivered a community in the city. 
sermon in which he also Donaldson's was the first of decried "a city in which it a series of weekly sermons seems like everybody is at dedicated to what church everybody else's throat." officials call "sharing 
visions." 

. Donaldson urged everyone "Last May, remember the from the ''chairman of the days when our beloved New board to the janitor" to York was going to explode communkate as individuals with hatred," said the Rev. and share their talents to James Parks Morton. dean promotfl a greater sensr of of thP cathE>dral. as he intro­wpll-being in the city. duced Donaldson. "Now WP 
hopP to heal and bring peace 

Donaldson. 59, a securities and unity to New York." industry veteran, is a friend of PresidPnt Bush and the During his 25-minutP ser­fourth, full-time paid chair­mon. Donaldson called the man of the New York Stock 1980s a dPrade in which "it Exchange. He and two was easy to SPe how good friends founded Donaldson. things were for some people Lufkin and Jenrette. the na­and even easier to not see tion's 10th-largest broker­how bad things had bc>romP age. lie also served in the for others.·• Nixon and Ford administra­tions. It should not be left to the 
captains of industry and 

But he was so jittery Sun­government to reverse the day about speaking at the tide of selfishness and greed, CathPdral of St. John the Di­Donaldson said. vine. h(' said, that by com­''It is a spirit that must parison "on January 1, when spring from the individual. I pass through thosn worldly not the employee manual," portals on 11 Wall Street ht• said. 

Are we amidst a recession? 
Economic analysts unsure of country's future 
HOT SPHINGS, Va. (API ­Business leadPrs cannot agrPP on whethPr the U.S. eeonomv is hPaded for a recession. · 
"I guess I would align myspJf with those who believP we an• in or are Pntering a recession," said Willard ButehN. chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank. 
But whilP John Reed. chair­man of Citicorp, describes it as a "difficult period." he says he's "not ready to throw in the sponge." 
And David Kerns. chairman of thr Xerox Corp.. says hP doesn't "have the slightest idea" whethPr the United States is in a recession. 
Thrre werr othPr topics dis­cussed at thP Businr.ss Council's wePkPnd merting-the Persian Gulf crisis, the fPderal budget deficit and thP baseball playoffs -but rPcession took cPnter stagP. 
Tht> council's st>miannual economic outlook rpport. prP­part>d b~ 19 rorporatP Peonomists, sf't thP tmw. 
"Then• is. first of all. a verv big diffprence in what our ron: sultants are projprting no". compared to what they werr projecting last spring." LPwis PrPston, chairman of .J.P. '\1or­gan & Co. and council vier chairman, told rPportPrs bPfort' prest>nting thl' rt>port to IPadnrs of thl' nation's top 100 corpo­rations. 
\\'hilt> thrPP-fourths of thl' Pconomists bPiiPVI' thP PCOnomy still can skirt a recession this year. projected growth in tlw serond half was down to 0.3 pPrcPnt at an annual ratP, compan~d with a 2 percent ratP projected in May. 
Five of the 19 panelists said an economic downturn would occur bPfore year's end. 
In a spssion with reporters, 12 of the council's corporate chiPfs assessed their particular industries. While most agreed on the overall economic slug­gishness, many nou~d that weakness variPd from industrv to industry and from region to rPgion. 
"It fPPls likP (a rncessionl in some segmPnts." said Getwral Elertrir Co. Chairman .John WP!ch Jr., who bt>comes coundl chairman in January. "In othPr 
segments.  things  are  quitP  
good."  
Citirorp's  H•·Pd  said  con­ 

sumers werP rPfiP<'ting tlw f't'onomv. 
"\VP look at our credit card busi1wss ... and WI' sN' different patterns deprnding on the state of thP PC<momy in a givPn an•a." he said. 
"In areas where thP economy is wrv weak. consumPrs tend to prPpay their outstanding and put thP card in a drawer," Heed said. "And in arPas when• thpy're f(•eling good. they tend to usP it normallv." 
But most agrepd that even thosP industriPs that had not bPPll grPatl~ affpctPd b~ thP economir sluggishness ParliN in thP ypar, slowt>d dramatically after tlw Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. 
"Tiwm is still growth but at a lesser ratP than in thP past." said .lamPs Hobinson Ill. chairman of thP American Ex­prPss Co. 
"This. too, changes as you go across thP countrv -the Northeast. of coursP, being quite hard hit now: Central and WPstern parts of the countr}. however. spPnding still a bit morP robust," he said. 
Hobinson, Wt>Ich and others agrPPd that housing and ron­sumPr spending on durable goods -big-ticket itPms such as appliances and automobi!Ps -haw bPen most adversPiv af­fprtPd. · 
ThosP itPms wpre sliding PV<'II beforP thP PPrsian Gulf crisis, in part because of high intPrt•st rates. The oil-pricP shock has removpd PVI'Jl mon' monP\' with which to buy thpm. · 
"!lousing starts. instPad of bPing up about 2.25 pPrcPnt. arP going to be down about 
12.25 pPrcc>nt this y(•ar," said 
S.D. BPrhtPI .Jr., chairman PmPritus of thP BerhtPI Group Inc. "~Pxt year'? ~orP of tlw sanw. 
Bt>chtPI also said non-rPsiden­tial ronstrurtion would bP down ronsidPrably this y<'ar. 

Viewpoint
Monday, October 15, 1990 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor ..... -................ Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ....Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Locke.r room oolicy
unfair to women 

Recently a debate has been brewing at the professional 
and collegiate level over whether female reporters should 
be allowed into the locker rooms to interview male 
athletes after games. Several incidents of harassment of 
female reporters have brought the issue into the spotlight 
during the past few weeks. 
The issue is an important one as the right to privacy is pitted against freedom of the press. At stake is whether women will continue to be excluded from typically male­dominated careers such as sports writing. 
At Notre Dame Stadium, female reporters are not allowed into the locker room following the game. If a woman would like to interview a player, she makes a request and the interview is conducted in a separate room. 
Although Notre Dame does make the effort to assist female reporters, such a policy is inherently discrimi­natory. 
Because male reporters can go into the locker room, they have access to more information than their female colleagues do. They can interview the players immediately after the game and are able to gather quotes a female cannot. The male reporters have greater opportunities to capture the team's post-game spirit than a female reporter who is only allowed to interview select players outside the locker room. 
If a paper's best sports writer is a woman, it is troublesome that the paper would have to think twice about sending her to cover a football game. In the case of The Observer, female reporters have typically talked to the coaches after the game, while the male reporters talk to the athletes. The Observer must consciously select a male repor:ter to cover the locker room because a woman would not be able to do the job as thoroughly -not because she is a woman, but because she is unable to gather the same information as a male. 
The situation can be resolved if the coaches and players are willing to create a space where athletes can meet with reporters of both sexes. Both reporters and athletes will agree that conducting interviews in a locker room is not ideal. Having the players funnel into a waiting area following the game, for example, would solve the problem of equal access to information. If the players are given a few moments to shower and compose themselves in private before facing the press, this arrangement should not inconvenience them. 
Sports reporting is no longer solely a male field and football programs, both collegiate and professional, must accommodate the rights of female members of the press. Creating a separate waiting area for interviews is a viable solution to make Notre Dame Stadium a place where women and men are treated equally. 
DOONESBURY 
YOU KNOW, IT'5 OPP, MIK£. 8.[). ANP HIS 8UP{}I/3S AI<& OVtR 12/XXJ Mll&S AWA'ft 
E3I.JT I CANflZI-7HE3/R V18RA­
TION5 AS 5TRON6l-YA51F THeY 
W&Re C£MII-K3 .-:.'--.--­
FRCM EJUR-EJ,4NKt 

Dear Editor: 
The recent shake-up in the women's volleyball program needs to be explained but should be handled by the ath­letic department. Until it is ex­plained, half-informed sports editors should refrain from edi­torials that are belligerent in tone and insinuate some wrongdoing on the part of the players. 
The headline of Greg Guffey's Oct. 5 editorial read, "Lambert's future uncertain as volleyball team revolts." This was not some violent takeover of the ACC; rather, it was an effort on the part of college-level athletes to improve playing conditions. the morale of the team and, through such advances, improve the Notre Dame Women's volleyball program. 
Later in the same editorial. Guffey stated, "Lambert's son, Greg, is the other assistant coach." I think this exemplifies Mr. Guffey's interest in, and knowledge of, the 1990 volley­ball team. Greg Lambert has not been an assistant coach at any time during the 1990 season. 
In the editorial of Monday, Oct. 8, Guffey wrote, "I like the public Art Lambert. I don't 
Logan Center appreciates ticket donors 
Dear Editor: making that day special. One of 
On behalf of the clients of the the clients said it best when she Logan Center. we would like to told one of us, "Even though we say a big thank you to the Notre lost, it was a lot of fun." Dame/Saint Mary's community. Because of your generosity, the We are always amazed at the clients were able to enjoy the response we get when we put NO/Stanford football game in out the ticket appeal every year. person. So many of you offer to give of 
yourselves by donating your 

We would also like to thank tickets, it speaks highly of the the NO ticket office, the stadium type of students present at Notre crew, the cheerleaders and Dame/ Saint Mary's College. everyone else who had a part in To those who offered to 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I 58N'5tA 
'One thing you always got to 
Ofii3P t/JNGING 
IN 71-£J!< !?REAMS, remember about a pretty girl; 
M!Kb-A {;()UU;.­
somewhere, somebody is tired
T/Ve CRY FROM 
TH!3HMRT1 
of her.' \ 
D. Jenkins 

know the private one." Does Mr. Guffey believe a mid-season change would be based on the "public" Art Lambert? The players know the "private" Art Lambert, and in that light, shouldn't their judgement on the situation of the team and on his coaching of the team be respected and taken seriously? He then asked why the change came now: "Was it something that no one could have taken action about in the past six years?" I would like to point out that three seasons ago. two scholarship athletes did take action after only one season under Art Lambert. Ironically, that was after the 1988 season. Lambert's most successful at Notre Dame. 
Furthermore. Guffey seemed to expect a statement from Maria Perez following the matches this weekend. She had every right to decline to com­ment because the athletic de­partment had not yet made an announcement concerning the coaching situation. 
In his Oct. 10, editorial, Ken Tysiac wrote "The Irish looked pretty pathetic in the Golden Dome Classic this weekend donate their ticket and were turned away, your generosity was noted and greatly appreci­ated. Thank you again for making that day special for the clients of Logan Center. 

Janet Kunst Sally Greene Co-Presidents Notre Dame/Saint Marys Council for the Retarded Oct. 6. 1990 
page 9 

without Lambert on the side­lines." The performance of any athlete or team in any given game, math, or tournament does not depend exclusively on the coach on the bench at the time of the game; it depends on the preparation and condition­ing the team has had through­out the season. Any team expe­riencing a coaching change goes through a transition period and should be allowed time to adjust. 
Finally, I would like to quote the headline from Mike Kamradt's Oct. 8, Inside Column. It read, "Team needs support even after loss." and although he was speaking of the football team, I think the sentiment is appropriate for the volleyball team also. I hope that the student body is willing to stand behind the women's volleyball team through this transition period, and that Maria Perez and the team she coaches are given the time and opportunity to improve. 
Karen Hohberger Lyons Hall Oct. 10. 1990 
Viewpoint

page 10 Monday, October 15, 1990 
LETTERS 

Use of sexist language influences social values 
Dear Editor: 
This letter generally addresses the representation of women in language, an issue necessary for a full appreciation of the "Year of Women." Specifically, however, it comes about as an attempt to correct Dr. Nigro's charge that sexist language exists only relative to the Gnostic 'feelings' of certain individuals. (The Observer, Oct. 5). 
While the doctor is certainly correct in concluding that the sexes are biologically distinguishable, he misses the central issue of symbolic representation in language. Far from being a symbolic gesture, the "Year of Women" manifests itself as a response to the inequality of linguistic gender representation: namely, an order of representation which takes the masculine as its measure of value, thus, necessarily devaluing its foil, the feminine. 
Sexist language is real. As a culture, we value that which is active, rational, objective, powerful -all considered masculine characteristics. This is the reigning ideology. Everyone understands what I mean if I use the metaphor of the church as bride and God as the bridegroom: the church is meant to serve the will of God, for it is from God that the church derives its meaning. This metaphor works, however, because in some residual way the relationship of bride and groom is understood as servant to master. (" ... your urge shall be for your husband, and he shall be your master." Gn. 4:16). 
This reigning ideology, valuing the masculine over the feminine, is 'naturalized,' accepted as 'the way things are,' as we have grown into our roles as social beings through language, the primary tool of socialization. Examples of this include the way we order the external world through linguistic categories, giving the world a contextual meaning within which we understand one another. It is also language which distinguishes our social relations: 'brother,' 'mother,' or 'stranger.' 
In other words, it is through language that we understand 'reality.' Since our consciousness is dependent upon language, the language we come to use inherently 
Fatherly relationship with God justifies masculine references 
Dear Editor: 
In this age of feminist move­ments. is not the issue of gender pushed beyond meaningful lim­its? Viewed from within an ex­aggerated concern about gender, one might even ask, since God has no gender, why did He become incarnate as a male and why does He reveal Himself as a Son and ultimately as a Father? To suppose, as Regina Coli apparently does, that it is the Church that casts God in the masculine gender or that Jesus was a heretic (since He always referred to God as His Father, never using the female image) is a bit much. 
The social explanation simply won't wash, at least as regards the Fatherhood of God. God does not conform to human so­cial norms. I find in a book by Edward J. Farrell, a passage which, to me, suggests a deeper and theologically acceptable an­swer. That God is our source is beyond question and we are not produced like furniture, but in His image and likeness, as His children. 
A child born naturally knows its mother intimately, immedi­ately, and to a degree that it is difficult to fathom. It knows its mother from living within her, from somehow sensing her as the being from which it came forth, as the source of its nour­ishment, its most natural and immediate love. The gender question is, of course, unknown to the child in the initial stages of its nurturing. This person is simply "the one" upon whom the child depends physically, emotionally, psychologically for its very existence. The mother can sweep aside as irrelevant anything that might somehow come between her and the one 
to whom she has given birth. She need not explain "You are flesh of my flesh, bone of my bone." 
But the father is quite differ­ent. How long it takes for a child to recognize any relation­ship let alone one that is, in any way biologically, emotionally, psychologically, on a par with that of the mother! It takes ef­fort on the father's part, proper circumstances, sometimes just good fortune, for a child to come to realize the love that the father has, the love that it should have for the father. Sometimes it is fairly late in life that one begins to dimly realize how much o.ne has inherited, how much one is an image of, how much one is or was loved by one's father. 
The analogy should be obvious. God is not someone we naturally, instinctively, immediately and intimately know and love. The ultimate object of all our love, that which we should come to love before all else, including ourselves, safeguards our freedom pre­cisely by not making us love Him. He stands as one whom we must come to recognize by our own efforts, by our willingness in faith to respond to His self-revelation. He reveals Himself as a Father most appropriately then. 
Whatever the value of this re­flection, it remains that God ­not the Pope or bishops or other dastardly defenders of church doctrine -did choose the mascu­line gender in making His self­revelation. To those who find this unacceptable, I say "take it up with God." 
Charles Weiher Philosophy Dept. 
Oct. 9, 1990 

The Viewpoint Department welcomes submissions from any and all members of the Notre Dame /Saint Mary's community. You don't have to be a regularwriter or a member of the Observer staff to submit a column. Voice your views and make a 
difference-write Viewpoint at P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
influences our view of the world. Sons and daughters of wealthy families who grew up hearing their parents refer to African-American servants as 'boy' or 'girl,' inevitably accepted on either a conscious or unconscious level the subordinate position of blacks. They obviously understood that the fifty-year old butler was not a 'boy' in the sense that he was a child. The 'slave' had been freed, but the African-American population's subordination lived on within the highly ideological context of language. 
Today, the linguistic context within which the feminine is represented perpetuates a similar ideological bias. Through language both one's social being (relation to. the world) and consciousness ( the ordering of phenomena) is established. The linguistic representation of women, however, is one which perverts and devalues the feminine, confining its measure to the terms of a reigning patriarchal ideology. 
Viewing the evolution of terms for feminine endearment and social status illustrates this 
Dear Editor: 
The National Catholic Reporter has just arrived at our home. The front page leads with the ugly story of the continued bullying -persecution would not be too strong a word -of a distinguished moral theologian, Fr. Charles Curran. Many at Notre Dame are no doubt familiar with the Vatican's shameful removal of Fr. Curran from his teaching position at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. Fr. Curran's pastoral approach to moral the­ology had upset the hard men in Rome who preferred a more formal, dogmatic framework. Unwilling to curb their spite, inquisitional churchmen have gone so far as to pressure non­Catholic institutions to refuse Fr. Curran a tenured faculty position. 
At last the NCR has answered the question that troubled some of us at Notre Dame, namely: why didn't our University, which has given much lip-service in recent years to the principle of academic freedom, pick up the ball? Here is what the NCR had to say: "Long before urging in print that Catholic universities across the nation consider hiring Curran, Fr. Richard McCormick and Fr. Richard McBrien made appeals in their own backyard. In 1987, McBrien and McCormick said, they met informally with Notre Dame President Fr. Edward Malloy -soon after he became 
women. It has been shown that some 120 words exist in the English language depicting a sexually promiscuous woman (approx. 20 exist for male promiscuity). The curious thing is that they very nearly all originated as either terms of status corresponding to masculine equivalents (i.e. "mistress," "madam," and even "queen"), or they originate as terms of endearment (i.e. 'tart'). 
Others argue convincingly that the feminine has always been identified as non-male, as having no linguistic representation except as a qualified sort of male (i.e., 'fe­male,' wo-man'). Whether or not one views this as a substantial claim really doesn't matter. The tendency to view the feminine in this manner is a social reality. Look at Dr. Nigro's comment: "Does this [centuries-old imagery] not accentuate the fact that god made us 'male and female' and not a unisex creature out of man?" The fact that Dr. Nigro speaks of creation as "out of man" speaks of more than the myth in Genesis. The very idea illustrates the tendency to see the feminine as a social 
President -to discuss the possibility of bringing Curran to Notre Dame." 
"We were politically astute," said McBrien, explaining that the two sought a "compromise" in which Curran would teach at Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies. Placing him in peace studies instead of theology "would please everyone" and "wouldn't raise a red flag," McCormick said recently. 
According to McBrien and McCormick, Malloy "felt that just starting his new term -and I could sympathize with this -to embroil himself right off in such a bold, daring and controversial move ... would hamper him as he tried to get under way in the post-Hesburgh era." ... 
The proposal was dropped. 
In June 1989, McCormick 
said, he approached Malloy a 
second timu, arguing that 
"college presidents who would 
turn down (Curran) would be in­
volved in a continuing injustice." 
McCormick declined to 
comment on Malloy's precise 
reply. 

But McBrien said it was his understanding that, at· that meeting, Malloy expressed openness to a peace studies appointment for Curran provided that the academic and ecclesiastical communities found it acceptable. However, the second attempt at a compromise did not pan out. 
the masculine. Ironically, Dr. Nigro's prejudice here is so steeped in the domination of the masculine that even a unisex being would have come into existence "out of man." 
The ways we speak tell all about how our conception of how the world is organized. Conversely, the ways in which we come to view the world are deeply ingrained by the ways of speaking we become accustomed to. 
Whether or not people are comfortable with the change, our language is undergoing a transformation tied to the changes of our social consciousness. Women, as equal social beings, must be symbolically represented as equals. Sister Cannon states, "Language is the way in which we express belief in God." If all of creation stands equally humble before God, necessarily, then, the linguistic representation of women demands meaningful equality in keeping with the value­representation of the masculine. 
D. C. Brearley Off-Campus 

(Reliable reports indicate that one of the reasons was the Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy expressed opposition to a Curran appointment in a letter circulated to a handful of bishops. NCR could not obtain the letter; D'Arcy could not be reached for confirmation despite repeated attempts.) 
McBrien. however, added, "it would not be true to say Fr. Malloy turned down the request to hire Curran." The theology department never made the request, he explained. "The next step would have been to be mischievous and bring Charlie in and interview him and so forth. But by that time we didn't have a slot anymore," McBrien said. With0ut having a position open, to confront the administration at this time would be "irresponsible and silly for me." he said. Notre Dame President Malloy declined comment. 
The story goes beyond Notre 
Dame, McBrien said. There is 

"almost a voluntary compliance" 
with the Vatican censure even 
though, unlike Catholic 
University of America, such 
schools do not fall under direct 
Vatican control, he said. 
"This has got to stop," he 
added. 
Peter Walshe Department ofGovernment Ann Pettifer '76 Oct. 4. 1990 

Accent
Monday, October 15, 1990 
page 11 

For your dining pleasure: 'Hotel California' 
If you've ever sped down releases are collections of pre­Chicago's Lake Shore Drive at viously released songs as well twilight tuned in to 105.9 FM, as unreleased B-sides from sin­then you've heard it. gles. They'll be available both If you ever hung out on the on compact disc and cassette. corner of Haight and Ashbury And in November, look for a 
' in San Francisco, then you've live work by former Cream seen it. member and legendary 
If you've ever prayed at the singer/guitarist Eric Clapton. Grotto in the rain, then you've felt it. An interpretation 
Now, read it. (for your dining pleasure) 
Webster says that psychedelic Chances are, if you were means "to cause an extreme tuned in to Elmwood Park's change in the conscious mind" 105.9, you heard the Eagles (I tried to find Psupper but it immortal classic "Hotel Cali­This is a pretty strange place. wasn't in there). fornia." Who hasn't? It sounds like Don just went 
Immediately upon uttering Critics, fans and musicians through some sort of religious the word psychedelic, images of alike are still captivated by the conversion here. And what are paisley collars, bold bell-bot­mysteriously sweet yet weary these "voices?" toms, and long-haired, bead­chords set to the burned out, Welcome to the Hotel Califor­bearing love children trying to fast-track story of one man's nia. forever feel groovy flash into visit to a California hotel. Such a lovely place. the mind. Is the song in question, how­Such a lovely face. 
However, though that genera­ever, really about a hotel? There's plenty of room at the tion growing up in the 60s saw On a dark desert highway, Hotel California. an unprecedented attempt to cool wind in my hair. .. Anytime ofyear. You can find raise the consciousness and ex­An innocent enough begin­it here. pand the mind-set of them­ning. The song continues as So the "place" (the hotel) is selves and all around them, the Don Henley narrates his experi­"lovely." What is this "face?" counter-culture that rose and ence of approaching the Maybe the face of the deity, or fell over that time was only a "hotel." master of this strange place flash of what true psychedelia Up ahead in the distance, I where candles are lit, bells encompasses. shall a shimmering light. ring, voices echo out, and you 
Their demise, mainly at.­My head grew heavy and my can be shown "the way." tributable to when their illegal sight grew dim, I had to stop Her mind is tiffany twisted. and for the most part untested for the night. She's got the Mercedes Benz. psychedelic substances stopped O.K. So he's tired of traveling, She's got a lot of pretty, shedding light and began to he needs a place to rest, right? pretty boys. she call friends. master. "What in the world ever (Remember, for future These lines are a distraction became of sweet Jane?" reference, his sight "grew to the underlying meaning of 
The realm of psychedelia cov­dim"). the song, though they still tie in ers everything from undergoing There she stood in the door­with the theme (Remember rapid eye movement to witness­way, I heard a mission bell. "twisted," and the materialis­ing the football team lose on And I was thinking to myself tic/promiscuous images). our own field to some pagan this could be Heaven or this How they dance in the court­Californians. could be Hell. yard. sweet summer sweat. 
What? A mission bell? Sounds Some dance to remember, Some upcoming releases religious. Heaven or Hell? This some dance to forget. South Bend stores will have is getting deep. Whatever is going on at the 
the new Traveling Wilburies re­Then she lit up a candle. and "hotel" seems to be a form of lease on October 30, one week she showed me the way. escapism, as implied by this after new releases by the Byrds There were voices down the line. and Led Zeppelin are due out. corridor. thought I heard them Here's where Don stops 
The Byrds and the Zeppelin say... beating around the bush: 
'The Brady Bunch' has returned­now playing on a Chicago stage 
CHICAGO (AP) -OK. video Jill Soloway, who jointly pro­sons and Alice. their old-maid kids, fill in the blank: duce and direct the shows for housekeeper. 
"Here's the story the Metraform theater com­Brady family crises involved "Of a man named -----" pany. such mundane aggravations as If you answered "Brady," get "We pay tribute to the Dad's misplaced architectural 
in line for the unlikeliest hit on Bradys, we don't disrespect plans and middle daughter Jan Chicago's theater scene: 'The them," Jill said. sneaking a peek at eldest Real Live Brady Bunch." daughter Marcia's diary. 
Like the young professionals And as self-styled Brady his­
The show is a live, word-for­who fill the theater, the torian Max Merlin, a North­word re-enactment of an Soloways are in their mid-20s western University film student, episode from the early 1970s and grew up watching the observed, "their problems al­television series, "The Brady Brady Bunch. which stayed on ways worked out in 23 1/2 min­Bunch." The all-adult cast plays television from 1969-74 and utes." it straight, from the dopey sing­ran as an hour-long series in along theme song to little 1977 before hitting the rerun Actress Eve Plumb, who Cindy's irritating lisp. trail. played Jan in the series, experi­
The show has become so "We were all really jealous of enced the Brady revival first­popular since beginning its the Bradys," Jill said, a senti­hand when the Soloway sisters Tuesday night run in early June ment also expressed by several flew her in from Los Angeles to that the 110-seat Annoyance spectators at a recent perfor­guest star in one of their shows Theater added a second weekly mance. during the summer. She played performance in mid-August. Brady envy? It's not hard to a bit part, choosing not to 
The cramped theater in a understand. reprise her role as pubescent funky, North Side neighborhood Jan at age 32. charges $7 a ticket. In their suburban digs, the It was "a totally bizarre ex­
Bradys resided in a universe far perience," Plumb said in a tele­
If "The Real Live Bradys" is removed from the social and phone interview from Los Ange­art -and not even the actors political turmoil of their times. les, where she is a rotating cast agree on that point -it may be Teen-ager Greg Brady never member of the Groundlings, an the first case of art imitating TV worried he might be drafted improvisational troupe. sitcom life, a kind of life so far and sent to Vietnam. No Brady She said she doesn't under­
removed from the real thing ever wondered if Nixon was a stand the Bradys' enduring ap­that it's, well, laughable. crook. peal, but thinks the Chicago Nor were the Brady children show is "soct of a hoot." 
A concept this loopy could ever stressed by the dynamics only have been hatched by peo­of their 'mix-and-match family: "Brady Bunch" creator Sh­ple with genuine affection for a widower and his new wife, erwood Schwartz, who also the Bradys: sisters Faith and her three daughters, his three gave us "Gilligan's Island," 
So I called up the captain. Please bring me my wine. He said. 'We haven't seen that spirit hear since 1969.' 
In 1969 the First Church of Satan was founded in California by Anton Levey. The "captain" is the high priest of the cere­monies who told Don that they haven't seen the "spirit" of wine (Christ's blood in a Christian mass) since 1969. 
And still those voices are calling from far away. Wake you up in the middle of the night, just to hear them say. 'Welcome to the Hotel Cali­fornia. 
Such a lovely place. 
Such a lovely face. 
They're livin' it up at the Ho­tel California. What a nice surprise. Bring your alibis. ' The voices would appear to 
be supernatural forces within the Church (demons?) The fact that they're 'livin' it up' would go along with the theme of Sa­taoism. It would also fit the philosophy of Levey when he founded the Satanic Church: to indulge in every vice and follow your own will in any direction that you want. Live it up. 
"Bring your alibis" is an indi­cation of the fact that a good number of those who join the Satanic Church do not use their real names to protect their other public and social lives. 
The song continues, further proving the point: 
Mirrors on the ceiling, 
The Black Mass held within the Church was notorious for staging large scale orgies with the members and the priest or priestess, 
pink champagne on ice, 
Satanists used pink cham­pagne as the sacred drink dur­ing ceremonies as a form of blasphemy and mockery of the Christian wine. 
suggested the lure of the Bradys is mostly nostalgia. 
"It's something people have as a reference point in their youth, and they hold fond memories of those shows," he said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. 
But Chicago actress Jane Lynch, who plays mother Carol in "The Real Live Bradys." holds that nostalgia is only part of the show's draw. 
She said the other half -the 

And she said, 'We are all just 
prisoners here, of our own de­
vise.· 
And in the master's cham­bers, they gathered for the feast. 
They stabbed it with their steely knives but they just can't kill the Beast. 
This last line is in reference to the Beast (666) in Revelation that suffered a mortal wound but still did not die. 
Last thing I remember. I was runningfor the door. I had to find the passage back to the place I was before. 'Relax' said the nightman, 'we are programmed to receive. 
You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave.' 
Thus, Don made an attempt to renounce the Church, but it is part of the ritual initiation of joining the Satanic Church that once you join. you are always a member, no matter what you do or where you go. 
So it's understood that you can "check out" of the Church, "but you can never leave." 
This interpretation, no matter how psychedelic it is to your view of the Eagles or the song itself, does put their other hits such as "One of These Nights" and "Witchy Woman" into a new perspective. 
Dessert 
With Bob Dylan's latest re­lease "Under the Red Sky," he appears to have fallen from his high wall of lyrical genius and relentless soul searching. And even with the help of such tal­ent as David Crosby, Bruce Hornsby, George Harrison, and the late, great Stevie Ray Vaughn, all the king's horses and all the king's men could not put this pathetic album back together again. 
"Wiggle, wiggle, wiggle .. "??? 
element that transforms "The Real Live Bradys" from camp into art -is the realization by audience members that the Bradys' uncomplicated lives were nothing like what life turned out to be. 
"A teacher once told me the purpose of art is to enlighten and inform," Lynch said. "This informs us as to what we bought into as children and en­lightens us that it was crap." 

Monday, October 15, 1990

page 12 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifil!Qs every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be
Classifieds 

prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
an attractive studio in lovely old We have tickets to all NEED GA TIX FOR MIAMI. 
MARY GARINO IN D.C. 

mansion near NO ,255 plus HOME games ! I 1·800·323· 7687 RANDY. I need three Miami GA's and one 
1. Be good 
\ NOTICES 

deposit ;please call 2888595 d WILL PAY TOP $$$. Stud tix call Tim at 1416 
2. II you can't be good, be 

TYPING AVAILABLE call Estevan or Ritchie careful 
287-4082 STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK @2275 NEED MIAMI GA'S. BIG $$$. Yes, Yes, Yes I do 3. II you can't be careful,
AVAILABLE NOW CALL 233·4693. Have 2 stu tixs 
name it after me 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 271-1833 AFTER SPM THIS IS A CATHOLIC Just lor you Info on semester, summer, J-term, UNIVERSITY -I NEED 12 MIAMI TIX 2AF, 2MIAMI too 
HELP II! Need a ride to Cleveland 

Graduate and Internship TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? HELP THE NEEDY-GA'S OR STUD., NEGOTIABLE 255-5283 lor October break. 
programs. All run under $6000. MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud FROM $1200 Will help pay lor gas and tolls. 
Curtin University. BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK HAVE MERCY!!! PETER (312) 935-9675 FOR SALE: One MIAMI Student Call Kathie X4045!!! 
1-800-878-3696. CALL JANE 271·1920 MIKI 284·4386 ticket. Call Clem or John HELP!!! I NEED PENN ST. GA'S (x 1177) with best offer. 
BOUNTIFUL BASKETS 

NOW OPEN/ BED & BREAKFAST I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's! AND STUDS. 
Baskets of Gifts for all occasions. 
FOR SALE

Rooms available for all N/0 PLEASE! 277-4838 PLEASE CALL JOHN X2352 I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay Box of goodies necessary for mid­
events. IDEAL lor family/ X238 lots of money for them. and will semester. 
fans/ business associates MAC 512K with BOOk drive $400, 2 Miami Stud Tix give you my first-born as well. Flo 2 doz. choco. chip cookies from out-of-town. Minutes IBM PC, 512K, 2 Drives, Amdek For Sale Need 1 Miami GA or Married x1696. 
2 large muffins 

from N/D & toll road exit #83. monitor $425. Call after 4:30 277· Best Offer Mark 232-4589 41ruit 219-273-0388/1-800-669· 1761. John x1808 I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay California mix -sesame mix 
0388 !!!! HAVE 2 MIAMI STUD TIX !!!! lots of money lor them, and will Cheese balls 
O'HARE to NWRK ••••••FOR SALE•••••• give you my lirst-bom as well. Flo 
2 gum, 2 candy bars 

SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING Sun 10/21 7pm $100 One MIAMI STUD --BEST OFFER--· x1696. 237-1949 Dave #1100 Best offer by 1 0/17 
$19 · free delivery 

Call Tom x1808 • Brian 3810 • Need MIAMI stud tix & GAs. 
Locally 272·9776 

JUST SAY NO' 2 Miami stud tix, reasonable Call Darrell at 283·3302. 
1·800-373-9716. 

Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's x5689 (D) or 272-3550 (N) Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME Books, corner of NO ave. & 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S For Sale: 1 Miami stud. 
YO, FROGGY! 

Howard. 233·2342 FOR SALE STUD EJ x1053 CALL 273-1364 Bo x1726 1 SENIOR MIAMI TICK. 
I NEED A RIDE BACK FROM 

BIG VARIETY 0' ID'S I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX. CALL $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS I need 2 Miami GA's !!!!!!!!!! and 
THE D.C. AREA AFTER FALL
I LOST/FOUND 

CALL DAN @1772 STACY 271·1953. 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL 1 Miami student ticket, call 
BREAK. WILLING TO LEAVE

RED...REo•••RED•••RED••• PAY$. CALL WIL · 217/223-9609. Allison, 2732 ANY TIME DURING THE WEEK· 
jacket lost at stanford barn I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S I NEED MIAMI TIX I'LL SPLIT COSTS. CALL GINA dance...also FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE CALL JOHN 258·0809 NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!!! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S X4853 
RED ground grafic piece from NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-$$$$ X-2601 $$$$ RED car in 0-2 lot...PREITY 1364 I need GA's lor Miami, Penn ST JUST WON THE LOITERY-­
This is a tribute to Vince, the best 

PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, and Navy. WILL PAY WELL. I also For sale: looking. most intelligent.
RETURN THEM !l! X· 4096 FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Ttx will buy GA's for any other game I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! Miami-Notre Dame TICKETS. 
and most athletic person on 

ask lor PAULA. call X 1346 too. Call Jason atx3413 or x3419 Please call after 7 p.m. 
campus, on this, his 20th birthday. 
PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE 232·3330. 
From, Your Fellow 

LOST: A "Berenger" watch with a FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Uncle Morris from Iowa is coming Pangborn Sophomore 6 Mates black band, a black face, and gold Sam X1726 lor the Miami game and ..surprise CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TIX Roman numerals. I lost it he has no ticket. Call Kara if you -CALL JOHN X1736 Top 10-Honest to God-We Swear 
somewhere between Farley and FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs have a Miami GA for Uncle Morris Need two tickets to NO vs. USC He Really Said This Quotes from 
the Center for Social Concerns on Sam X1726 at x2761. game, student or GA's. Call AAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!!!! 
Vince

Monday morning. II found, Betsy at x3899. I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS 10. Yeeeeaaaah! 
PLEASE call Michelle x3879. The FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs need miami GAs please call x3735 WAY BAD!! 
9. Time for a K·Nappy

watch was a gift and is very, very Sam X1726 Wealthy Alumni I'LL BE YOUR BEST FRIEND 8. Look at the size of that thing! 
important to me. Have 1 Miami tix Desparately Need AND GIVE YOU MONEY!! 
7. I don't even remember going 

FOR SALE: Stu. Tix lor MIAMI Bob 2384 Miami Tix 272-1981 OR X1879 
into the hockey captain's closet 

Lost: Pink, rimless eyeglasses in call DIEGO #4075 Call Tim x2015 6. Take away his scholarship 
blue Oakley soft case. II found, SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET $$$$$$$$$$$$ Yes, I have MIAMI GA'S lor sale 5. I want my picture taken with 
contact Jim at x-1716. For Sale: One Miami stud. ticket -call LuAnn X4766 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
·the sheep 

call Mark-1305 I Need PSU GA's x3760 
4. I'm the greatest! Just ask me,

LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI Call Beth 288·0597 I'll tell you 
in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30p.m. ROSIE4025 4 Sale: 1 Miami Stu tix 3. If only you had the social skills 
TICKETS I do 9468. Reward offered. For Sale call Jen. X4084 
If found, please call Rene 277-NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S 1 Penn Stu Tix 2. II my dad were coaching here, 
Need $$$?Sell 2Miami GA's CALL X3797 they wouldn't have gotten a first 
LOST: A GOLD AND SILVER your ga's to all 1 Miami Student down SEIKO WATCH between Niewland home games. 1 Air Force NEED PIITSBURGH GA's Interested in going to the 1. Nobody move-I dropped aand Hesburgh Lib. Call tom x1597. Call Jim at 2298 CALL MAIT #1159 Tennessee game?? 
quarter!

10/8/90 from 2:00-3:00 p.m. REWARD, please call •2959 I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Two(2) MIAMI GA's lor SALE Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at Call for information about a bus 
P.S.· Go have 3 beers and pass 

GAMES.272-6306 call 277-5745 between 283·1818 and leave a message. trip from South Bend that includes: 
out in the closet, Vince

LOST:FRESHWATER PEARL 9:00 am · 5:00 pm. transportation, hotel and BRACELET WITH GOLD BEADS. HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will Leave best offer on machine. ••••••••so YD. LINE....... TICKETS. 
...HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY...TO SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL pay$$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1055 INDULGE YOURSELF !!!! Call Beth at 288-0597 lor 
VINCE FAZIO, THE SEXIEST

TERRI 239-5812 SELLING MIAMI STUDENT details 
.....MAN ON CAMPUS!! ..... Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or TIX FOR SALE 
I LOST MY HP28C CALCULATOR GA Please call Matt X3024 2 (together) stud tix LV. OFFER CHRIS #4817 It Really Hurts To Do This AMY BLAISING*AMY BLAISING 
ON FRIDAY THE 28TH OR SO. •••••···so YD. LINE....... but when it comes right down to it, 
NOW THAT I'VE GOITEN YOUR 

HELP! I'M AN ENGINEER AND Need Miami GAs & Studs Miami or Air Force we need the money to go home ATIENTION, I WOULD JUSTI'M FLUNKING WITHOUT MY Mike 273·1537 MIAMI TIX; need 1 GA; call more than we need our two miami LIKE TO SAY THAT I FINALLY 
CALCULATOR. MY NAME Call Jim with BEST OFFER Bob x3300 student tickets. 
DID DO SOMETHING AFTER I

"STAGER" IS ON IT. REWARD Need: 271-0333 If interested, we'll be taking the SAID "THAT'S IT."
$$.CALL DON 283·2173. I Need MiAmi StUd best offer by 1 0/17 AMY, YOU ARE A POTATOHEAD! 
TICKETS FOR ALL HOME Have stud tix lor Miami and Penn Call ToBy 4010 GAMES! State. Call-287-69~7 .. Jeanne ·3619
I WANTED 
P.S. BY THE WAY, YOU OWE ME 
2 miami stud tix lor sale ANOTHER DINNER 

JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give CALL JOE X1688 NEED 2GA'S FOR PENN ST. call kim at 277·7489 NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MIAMI hundreds of employers Monday-Thursday KELLY X5076 CHRIS x1067 
To all those who PLANNED, 

(including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank 3:30-6:30 I NEED MIAMI AND PITI TIX HOSTED, ROLLED, TAPPED, 
One, the Federal Reserve, NEED $$TO IMPRESS JEWISH CALL PAT 234-8608 For SALE. 2 Roundtrip Tix on 
etc...

Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, NO Alum needs 3 GA tix lor Penn HTH! Midway $320. value each. Best on friday at the Skip ..... 
Procter & Gamble, and Random St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) WANTED: 2 G.A TICKETS FOR Offer. Call Nase 289-6133 A big THANKS!! 
House) access to your resume 257-5971, BUY MY MIAMI STUD\ TENN. GAME. (404)923-4707. 
Lov, from all of the 'Skippers'through Targeted Recruiting II am-Spm, M-F. Need a Miami stud. tik soon? Services (TRS). Only $10 before MARY X5072 MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! Let's talk. X1899 Mike 

Need 1 Miami GA

Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment TOP $ for Your Ga tix to all home Divorced Alum Dad in Houston Call Kevin X1477 
kit plus a free Corporate Profiles games call 277-9357 ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S has plane, car, and hotel. Need Magazine, describing opportunites Patty FOR FAMILY. Call collect at Miami Tix lor GAME on son's 12th I NEED 4 MIAMI GAs 
AVID 

at the nation's leading employers, night 601·362-2339 or Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only Call Matt #2052 My, my... "weaken the knees," You
call 1·800· TRS-JOBS. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! X3140 lor questions. need 2; Call Collect (713) 524· flatter yourself, mylriend. Be wary 
2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE 7604 after 7. NEED MIAMI GAs JOE X1761 
of underestimating my potential, 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 50 YRD. LINE -TO HIGHEST lest you may find yourself at a mo. Summer. Yr., round, All BIDDER BY THURSDAY 277-2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE FOR SALE: 2 Miami married lor sale MIAMI stud tix loss.

Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 8379 CALL LATE. CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT stud. tix #489·9660 call andrew 1307 Reveal your identity, as to not risk 
92625. !!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 277·9406 a dwindled interest at this end. 
DESPARATE: I need MIAMI tix! For SALE, 1 Miami Stud. Call CAROLINE
NEEDED: Ride to/from Dallas ROUND-TRIP AMERICAN Will pay $$$!!-Kristi x4231. Nase 289-6133 lor break. Diane x5468 NO GRAD and wile from Calif. AIRLINES TICKET (EXP. 12114/90 
I need a ride back from the 

NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami AND NOT GOOD T.G. WEEK) NEED 2 MIAMI GA Chapel Hill or Greensboro,
I PERSONALS
Earn $300 to $500 per week Game. Call Collect (818)591· BEST OFFER. 259·7820. #2790 NC area 1 0/27 or 1 0/28. I'llReading Books at home. Call 2625. 
pay gas$. Christine-3884.

1-615·473-7440 ext. B 340. I Have a pile o' money and I FOR SALE: TWO MIAMI AND 1 hiag MIAMI TIX FOR SALE desperately need Miami GA's. AIR FORCE STUD TIX. CALL NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY Call Hugh at 233-6740. KEVIN AT X1409 GOING TO OR THROUGH 
FAST 

4 BREAK· EILEEN 284·4253 DAVE X3024 KNOXVILLE. TN -OCT. BRK · I NEED PENN STATE TIX $$$ AFTER MIAMI?? I NEED A 
FUNDRAISING 

Need a ride from L.l. to N.D. FOR SALE: I have 2 GREAT Penn St. GA's. 4-STUD & 2-GA 273-9077 RIDE;WILL SHARE$$ CALL 
PROGRAM

after Oct. break? Call X3725. Ttckets for all remaining home Looking to trade for Miami GA's. X1511 games. Call Hugh at 233-6740. 4 SALE: 3 MIAMI STUD TIX BEST OFFER-273·9088 Happy 22nd Birthday Elizabeth· 
FOR RENT 
'1000=

Call Joe X1688 I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! Anne Crisp. 
WUII. 

1991·1992 Reserveyour Mon.-Thurs. 3:30·6:30 PM PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My Need Miami student tix. badly ! We will always love you! 6,5.4. or 2 bedrm house. parents will pay substancial Call Paul at x1755 Mom and Dad 
Earn up to $1000 in one week Call Bruce: 234·3831 or 288· NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, amounts of cash. Call Marc at 
for your campus organization. 5653 PENN STATE TICKETS x1809. Sale 4 Miami Stud Drummer looking to join a band. CALL 234· 7644 x1290 Open to any type of music. If 
Plus a chance at 

Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet HELP!!!! Need some Miami GA's interested call Rob: ?33-7440. 
$5000 more! 

Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3 lor big NO fans from Miami! I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA's!! 1/2 baths, 2 family rooms with AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR Call Matt@ x3515 call Kathleen@ 4081 «LONG ISLAND BUS» 
This program works! plenty of room. Professors or SALE X1511 Seats going last! Call now to 
No investment needed. mature students welcome. 272-Selling 2 Miami stud together. 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET reserve spot on "the bus from 
call l.aoo-912-GSZI

8939. NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND Best offer by Wed 6PM. Call Sean FOR SALE HELL"! Joni 1839.Janice 2993 PSU STUD. CALL 1511 @ 3068. CALL MARY X1727 & get$ in by 10/16' 
Ext. so 

Monday, October 15, 1990 The Observer 
page 13 
"It's always good to feel like the guy's going to be open." said 

Rocket ND has to improve on defense
Mirer. who passed for a career­

continued from page 20 
chance, he almost broke it for a touchdown. weaving 34 yards through a cluttered arrange­ment of blockers and defenders 
"It was pretty obvious that we were trying to kick away from Ismail," said Air Force head coach Fisher DeBerry. "I have a great deal of respect and admiration for his abilities. They will be able to make their team highlight film from this game alone. They will be able to make a highlight film just for Ismail from this game, too. He is a great football player. There is not a better one in the whole country." 
In a very real sense. Ismail was responsible for Notre Dame's excellent field position throughout the game. As a con­sequence of the Faic"n kicking team's fear of Ismail, 'fotre Dame's worst field position after a kickoff was at its own 26. The average field position for Notre Dame after a kickoff was its own 35, but since Ismail was deep the kickoff never went past the Notre Dame 19. 
Christ's punts, besides the two that were blocked by Hyan Mihalko, averaged 31.7 yards, with much yardage lost because the punts crossed out of bounds in the air. 
"lie definitely affected the outcome of the game," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "He's an exciting player. He does a lot of things in a lot of different ways. We definitely want to get Hocket involved more." 
Ismail's biggest play of the day was a 52-yard touchdown catch with 3:12 left in the sec­ond quarter, when Hick Mirer threw 37 yards in the air to a wide-open Ismail on a post pat­tern. It made the score 24-7. 
Volley 
continued from page 20 
"I have had a hard dealing with Art Lambert having to re­sign," said Indiana coach Tom Shoji. "Jie was basically forced to resign. I don't know if the Notre Dame players know what they have done here. I'm not going to schedule Notre Dame next year." 
True. the events of the last couple weeks have rui1wd any recruiting opportunities for next year. No recruit would want to conw to a situation as unstable as this one. The ramifications may even be felt two. three years from now. Still, it does seem a bit strange to me that the Hoosiers waited until they arrived here to voice their concern over this issue. "We were upset with thr com­ments their coach made." said Irish player Chris Choquette. "Any coach who jeopardizrs a chance for his team to play is not a very good coach. lie was just looking for publicity." 
Needless to say, it was a strong statement..The details behind Lambert's resignation are not known and it remains to be seen if they will ever become known. Obviously. they were pretty seven• for him to resign in the middle of the season. 
"It (the last couple weeks) has been very draining," said Choquette. "The administration asked us as a favor not to say anything. If we said anything the administration would be upset." 
Maybe the administration feels since. it did the players a favor in getting rid of LambPrt. they should keep silent. 
"I have a great deal of respect for my players." said Shoji. "If high 253 yards and tied his best effort with two touchdowns. "If he's behind the secondary and you try to throw a deep. ball. you really don't have to throw a perfect pass. You just kind of let him run to it. He got behind them a few times, and he made it look easy." 
Said Ismail: "We worked hard 
all week and it paid off. The 
chemistry with Mirer and all the 
receivers is getting better every 
week. We're just fortunate to 
have him at quarterback." 
Besides an expert quarter­back, Rocket said, the defensive patterns itself facilitated a big day. 
"There was a lot of zone," said Ismail. "The safety wouldn't run the pattern, and the post was kind of open a lot. Due to the coverage that they played, we thought the middle when you throw it deep was something that we could get in. As it turned out, it was there." 
Being inserted in the lineup after missing last week's game with a bruised thigh, Ismail said the injury didn't affect his pass patterns but that he was still not 100 percent. He did say he'd be ready Saturday when the Irish face Miami, but could say only that the coming week of practice would be crucial for chemistry, both on offense and defense. 
"We've had (chemistry). but it's just so off-and-on that we really haven't had a chance to be consistent," said Ismail. "We just have to get in the situation that we're totally concentrating on whatever it is that we're do­ing, and not having lapses, and that's what we're trying to work out in practice. 
"We have it all. We're improv­ing as the year goes on. It's go­ing to take everything to beat Miami." 
they have a problem with me, they come to me with the problem and we iron it out. I would hope that coach Lambert will tell his side of the story some time. If there is going to be a resignation. I would hope it is because of a specific thing. like this person did this one thing. not because of innuendos or accusations." 
I would hope that Lambert would tell his side of the story too. Even more. I would hope the team would tell its side. Of the 15 players on the roster only four are freshmen. So the rest have had plenty of time to get to know Art Lambert. Did he have some characteristics that just could not be tolerated anymore'? Did he do one certain thing? I certainly would like to know and I'm sure a lot of other people would too. 
Ohio State coach Jim Stone also questioned the situation with the Irish volleyball team. 
''I've heard things. but you never know if it's true." Stone said. "I'm in Columbus. Ohio so I'm not in a position to respond to any of that. I've always played Notre Dame because Art's a friend. 
"This is the middle of the conference season and it's not normal to play a non-conference match. Sin·ce Art's not here anymore, I don't think there's any real reason to come up here anymore." 
"We'd like to put all that's happened behind us," said Choquette. 
Unfortunately, that's probably not going to happen. Granted. I understand that it's a difficult thing to try and concentrate on playing when all this extra­curricular stuff gets in the way. But. it's becoming apparent that the team will have to say something eventually. whether the administration likes it or not. 

By SCOTI BRUTOCAO the kicking column. Not only did proved himself once again to be Assistant Sports Editor the Irish enjoy ample field one of the toughest open-field position all day, but they receivers to tackle in the 
With Notre Dame's 57-27 managed two blocked punts, country. victory over Air Force. Lou both by senior Hyan Mihalko. In the final play of the 36-31 Holtz didn't want to disparage "The coaches made the punt­loss to Stanford Oct. 6. Brown 
his defense, although it was block call. and everybody hit had the winning touchdown 
clear that it has a long way to their gaps," said Mihal.ko. "I pass slip between his fingers in go before the Irish face Miami guess they just didn't zone out the end zone. Saturday. · enough. I did get in there pretty On Saturday. however. Brown 
"I was a little disappointed in clean. The ball snapped, and caught four passes for 61 yards how our second unit on you explode off the ball, and we and one touchdown. On one defense performed," said Holtz. said all of a sudden, 'Let's get play, a 24-yard gain late in the 
"We played a lot of people. but this.' second quarter, he broke two we need to narrow it down. We "On the second one, we were tackles in the open field before have to make an awful lot of just determined to get it. We set finally being brought down by progress this week in our mind to it, and we were able Eric Faison. 
preparation for Miami. We to get it again." Four plays later, Brown never made the big play today. • •• caught his touchdown pass on a but we are going to have to do The Irish rushing attack may cross-field pass from Mirer, that next week. have been dominated by making the score 31-7 with less 
So concerned is Holtz about fullback Rodney Culver, who than 30 seconds in the half. his defense that he directed his rushed for 102 yards on 10 "We wanted to get the ball to coaching attention to the carries. but two of his backups, Derek, because he can do so defense during the whole week both freshman. made significant many things with it," said Mirer. of practice before the Air Foree contributions. "Once he gets it. he's like a game. Prior to that, he spent Jerome Bettis. Culver's first receiver but he's also like a 
most of his time in practice backup. gained 46 yards on only fullback, running over people. with the offense. four carries, including one 30-He's got good speed and we 
"We played a lot better as a yard scamper in the third can't afford not to give him the unit (with Holtz watching at quarter. Before the game, ball." practice)," said defensive tackle Bettis's season total was 19 • • • George Williams. "Holtz gets on yards on five carries. Holtz's stepped-up us, but we need to have him do involvement on defense has put that once in a while. If you Jeff Burris, making his more assistant coaches working don't do what you're supposed collegiate football debut carrying on offense. Heeeivers coach Skip to, he'II pull you out and get the ball, gained 30 yards in five Holtz wore the offense headset 
somebody to do the job." carries, including a one-yard on the sidelines, sending in the Against the Falcons, Notre touchdown late in the fourth plays to the offense. Dame allowed 337 total yards quarter. In that drive, Burris got "(Quarterback) Coach (Pete) on offense. Of the total, 244 the call for the final four plays. Cordelli and (running back) 
were on the ground against the "I thought Bettis performed coach (Peter) Vaas were in the wishbone formation. Air Force very. very well," said Holtz. "I press box, and they were calling had averaged 257.5 yards was also impressed with the most of the plays," said the through six games before way Burris ran." younger Holtz, who said he had meeting the Irish. • • • worn the headset during a game• • • After ending the Stanford before. ''I'm just the Notre Dame may have game on a particularly sour middleman. It would be hard to 
dominated Air Force most in note, tight end Derek Brown screw that up." 
on their next drive, going 76 found tight end Derek Brown in yards in 6:34. Jason Jones the endzone for a five-yard
Win 
capped the drive with a three­touchdown completion. That yard touchdown run. was a 65-yard drive that took
continued from page 20 
just 1:16 and saw Mirer team The Irish scored two more with Brown for three
ond blocked punt at the Air 
quick touchdowns late in the completions and 53 yards. 
Force 48 and seven plays later 
first half. Mirer hit a wide-open

Levens scored again, this time Ismail over the middle for a 52-The Irish added a safety and a
from five yards out, to give 
yard touchdown strike on the 26-yard field goal from HentrichNotre Dame a 17-0 lead. Those first play of a series with just in the third quarter and thenthree scoring drives took just over three minutes left in the finished the damage with two5:26 off the clot:k. 
half. Hicky Watters touchdown runsThe Falcons got on the board After an Air Force punt, Mirer in the fourth quarter. 
Montana, Rice help 49ers soar 
(APl-Joe Montana's career "My confidence level is not Cincinnati and its coach, Sam highs of 476 yards and six shaken," Dimry said. ''I'm just Wyche. who poured it on 61-7 touchdowns passes -five to down because I had a bad day. last December. Jerry Hice to tie an NFL Hice is a total package and great The outburst was the biggest receiving record -enabled all-around receiver." by Houston since a 49-33 vic­unbeaten San Francisco to whip Montana. who completed 32 tory over San Diego in 1971. It Atlanta 45-35 on Sunday. of 49 passes. also threw a 43-also put the Oilers (3-3). win­extending the 49ers' league yard scoring pass to Mike ners of six straight against record to 1 3 straight road Sherrard. Montana was one of Cincinnati at the Astrodome, victories. several San Francisco quarter­within a game of the Bengals in 
Hice had a club-record 13 backs who had previously the AFC East. catches for 225 yards, with TD thrown five TD passes in a receptions covering 24. 25, 19, game. Chiefs 43, Lions 24 13 and 15 yards. lie tied the Mike Cofer joined the record­Free agent Barry Word rushed touchdown record shared by setting binge with a 56-yard for a team-record 200 of Kansas Bob Shaw of the Chicago field goal on the final play of the City's 563 total yards and Bill Cardinals and Kellen Winslow of first half. breaking by two yards Maas led the defense with two the San Diego Chargers. the team mark shared bv Steve sacks, one for a safety on Bob 
Neither Montana nor Hiee Mike-Mayer and Bruce G~ssett. Galgiano. seemed overly impressed. The victory was the 1Oth Word. outperforming All-Pros 
Montana rated his perfor­straight for the 49ers (5-0). who Barry Sanders and Christian mance "on and off. .\t times I have won 13 in a row counting Okoye, broke the record of 193 played pretty well. but I didn't playoff victories last season en yards by the late Joe Delaney. feel like I played up to the stan­route to their second Word carried 18 times as the dard of the Super Bowl. I was consecutive Super Bowl cham­Chiefs (4-2) ran up their highest up and down." pionship. point total in more than five 
Hice "had a decent game to­years. day ... but I don't compare Elsewhere Sunday, it was 
Saints 25, Browns 20
games. I don't think I made two Houston 48, Cincinnati 17; mistakes in the Super Bowl. Kansas City 43, Detroit 24; New a
Steve Walsh, acquired in Today I made four or five." Orleans 25, Cleveland 20; trade with Dallas 20 days ear­
Montana and Hice picked on Tampa Bay 26, Green Bay 14. lier. threw three touchdown cornerback Charles Dimry and San Diego 39. the New York passes in his New Orleans debut throughout the game. · .Jets 3. after replacing Jon F<iurcade in 
"He's a great defensive back, the second period. but it is one-on-one coverage Oilers 48, Bengals 17 Walsh completed 15 of 26 and the defensive back doesn't Houston, with Warren Moon passes for 243 yards. liP en­
know where I'm going." Hice throwing a career-high five tered the game after Cleveland said. touchdown passes. got back at (2-4) tied the score at 3-3. 

With the aid of a block from freshman fullback Jerome Bettis (6), Irish quarterback Rick Mirer rolls to his left. 


Air Force defenders were chasingIrish receivers like Shawn Davis Irish tailback Ricky Watters (12) dives into the endzone for one of his two touchdowns. 
all day. 


M__o_nd_a_y_,_o_ct_o_b_e_r_15_,_1_9_9o___________________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_~_e_r_____________________________________________ Page15 
Basketball practice gets underway for men, women 
McGraw's troops promise NCAAs are within reach 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The opener may be over a month away. but the Irish women's basketball team is al­ready promising big results. 
"This year's Notre Dame women's basketball team is go­ing to make history," predicted Sara Liebscher. this season's tri­captain along with fellow seniors Karen Robinson and Krissi Davis. "We're going to make the NCAAs for the first time." 
The formidable expectations are not unfounded. The squad that finished last year with a 23­6 record graduated only one player (Lisa Kuhns) and returns six starters. While the NCAA selection committee snubbed the program last year, a tougher schedule and influx of talent should make them viable contenders for a tournament invitation come February. 
While Notre Dame, which be­gins practices today, will face Tennessee and Old Dominion late in the season. the 'make-it­or-break-it' games will probably occur early on for the Irish. The team travels to California at the end of November to play UCLA and Stanford in its third and fourth games. 
"If we could come back from that trip undefeated, we would definitely get votes in the Top 20," said Robinson. 
Easier said than done. Stan­ford is the defending national champion while the Bruins are still smarting from Notre Dame's one-point victory at home last year. Still. the games should prime the Irish, who must face Indiana, Syracuse, and Louisiana Tech among others all before January 1. 
"The whole of December is going to be big," said Head Coach Muffet McGraw. "It will be a good test if we're going to be ranked in the Top 20. I think we're going to surprise people." 
McGraw definitely has more bodies to work with this year. Four talented freshmen and the return of junior Comalita Haysbert should add much­needed depth to a team that at times last year featured only seven healthy players. 
"All of them will make an im­pact right away," said Liebscher of freshmen Andrea Alexander, Katura Jones, Kristin Knapp and Sherri Orlosky. The 6-1 Jones and 5-11 Orlosky were Gatorade Players of the Year for Oklahoma and Maryland, respectively, as seniors in high school, while Alexander, 5-10, and Knapp, 6-3, were first team All-State in Michigan and California. 
'The best players are going to play," said McGraw, "although none of them have been penciled in (as starters)." 
McGraw already has the unusual comfort of returning six starters. When Haysbert was declared academically inel­igible at midseason last year, sophomore Coquese Washington found herself play­ing point guard while the 5-8 Liebscher moved to forward. Robinson, Davis and junior Margaret Nowlin were the other regulars. 
"Coquese Washington has a vear of experience at point 


Muffet McGraw 
guard and that's the pivotal position," said McGraw. 
Despite Haysbert's return, Washington may see a good deal of playing time again this season. Liebscher recently un­derwent surgery to remove bone spurs in her ankle and may not be healed in time for Notre Dame's opener Nov. 16th versus the Latvian National Team. 
Meanwhile, McGraw has wel­comed back the six foot Hays­bert, who led the team in scor­ing before her suspension. 
"Comalita is our best defen­sive player," said McGraw. "She does everything we want to do. She'll help us run the break and gives us good height un­derneath." 
McGraw said that while Notre Dame's basic playing style should not differ much from last year, having 12 people on the team will allow the Irish to pick up the tempo and defend man­to-man more often. 
That upbeat outlook, com­bined with some clutch wins on the road, could just land the Irish in the NCAA tournament, and the history books, by the end of the season. 
Last yearwe madeover14,000students Wall Streetl}'coons in the... 
e™ 

November 1, 1990 to February 28, 1991 


Emer this year's competition and you'll become a Wall Street tycoon, buying and selling stocks with your own $500,000 broker­age account. If you're the best trader at the end of this national stock market competition, you 'II be cashing a check for a very real $25,000! 
Real Trading 
There is no better way to get hands-on stock market experi­ence. You're on the phone, call­ing your broker on a toll-free AT&T 800 Service line to buy and sell stocks. "Give me $100,000 worth of SARA LEE and another $50,000 worth of AT&T." You start with a fictitious $500,000 brokerage account. 
Cash Scholarship Awards 
1st. ....................$25,000 2nd .....................10,000 3rd ......................7,500 4th ......................5,000 5th ......................4,000 6th ......................3,000 7th ......................2,500 8th .............. ' .......2,000 9th ......................1,500 10th ......................1,000 
Co·sponsored by: Win atrip for you and aguest compliments of the Holiday Inn Lucaya Beach Resort in Freeport, Grand Bahama, Bahamas and the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism. 
Build your portfolio from over 5,000 stocks listed on the OTC, New York, and American Stock Exchanges. Brokers will give you up-to-the-second quotes and exe­cute your orders. Monthly state­ments will keep you informed of your fortunes. 
Real Prizes 
Over S200,000 in total prizes will be awarded! This includes cash scholarship awards, trips 
to the Bahamas, and hundreds of monthly prizes from Cham­pion USA. More than 1,000 win­ners in all. You can win a cash scholarship award of $25,000. Imagine cashing that check! Top winners receive weekly national recognition from USA TODAY. 

You can follow the current standings of the AT&T Colle­giate Investment Challenge every Monday during the competition in the "MONEY" section of USA TODAY. 
Enter and Win 
The Third Annual AT&T Collegiate Investment Chal­lenge begins the morning of November 1, 1990 and ends on February 28, 1991. Your trading can lead to fame, a great Bahamas tan. and a $25,000 fortune. Call now to enter or to get your free brochure. 
Registration deadline: October 27, 1990. 
Entry fee only 
$49.95 
Call Today

The AT&TCollegiate Investment Challenge is produced and managed by Wail Street Games. Inc.. 40 Grove Street. Wellesley, MA 02181. 
Irish will soon find out about season 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will find out quickly what kind of season to expect. 
The Irish open the 1990 sea­son in exactly one month in the pre-season National Invitational Tournament. They host Fordham in the first-round of the 16-team event. 
"The pre-season NIT is a great opportunity for us," Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps said Friday afternoon during media day at the Joyce ACC. "It's a big advantage when you can play for something before going to the NCAA. We're looking at it as a 16-team regional." 
Said junior Daimon Sweet, "We're taking that tourney very seriously. How well we do in that tourney will tell how well we will do the remainder of the year." 
Notre Dame finished 16-13 last season and then lost to Virginia in the first-round of the NCAA tournament. The Irish lost five seniors in Joe Fredrick, Jamere Jackson, Keith Robinson, Scott Paddock and Tim Crawford 
The biggest loss might have come two weeks ago when the Irish learned that sophomore Monty Williams could not play any competitive sports because of a potentially dangerous heart condition. Williams, who will remain on scholarship, was expected to play a big role on this year's team. 
If the Irish are to play in their seventh consecutive NCAA Tournament, they will need play well against a tough schedule on the road. They struggled away from the JACC last season and will face a tough road schedule this season that includes UCLA, Kentucky, North Carolina, Temple, St. John's, Dayton, De 

Upcoming Events 

TUESDAY.OCTOBER16 
Panel Discussion 
"HOW TO GET INTO A GRADUATE 
SCHOOL IN INTERNATIONAL 
AFFAIRS" with representatives from 
Program in International Affairs 
(Columbia), School for Foreign 
Service (Georgetown), SAIS (Johns Hopkins), Woodrow Wilson School (Princeton), and Fletcher School of 
Law and Diplomacy (Tufts) 
4:00p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
CAROL E. COHN 

Director, "Nuclear Discourse Protect,' Center 
for Psychological Studies In the Nuclear Age; 
Research Associate, Department of Psychiatry, 
Harvard Medical School 
"THE ROLE OF GENDER IN 
NATIONAL SECURITY DISCOURSE" 
7:30 p.m. -C.C.E. Auditorium 
WEDNESDAY.OCTOBER17 
CAROL E. COHN 

"INTERNATIONAL SECURITY: 
LANGUAGE AND ASSUMPTIONS" 
4:15 p.m. -Room 121 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
111111~~~~~!~ 
Paul, Louisville and Missouri. 
"You have to have guys com­ing out with the killer instinct." said senior captain Tim Singleton. "We didn't really have that killer instinct last season. Everybody sat back and waited for things to happen. We can't be playing timid like we did last year on the road." 
Phelps did point to the per­formance of junior LaPhonso Ellis as a key to Notre Dame's success. Ellis missed the first seven games last season be­cause of academics, but then finished as the third-leading rebounder in the country while scoring over 14 points per game. 
"He has to st~p up, be counted and become one of the premier basketball players in the country." Phelps said. 
Junior Keith Tower will need to make his presence known in the middle. Tower attended two camps this summer -one with the Boston Celtics and another with legendary coach Pete Newell in California. 
"I think the biggest improve­ment came in my confidence playing against NBA players." Tower said. "We did a lot of fundamentals in California and worked on moves with my back to the basket. That was very beneficial." 
Senior Kevin Ellery and junior Elmer Bennett round out the returnees expected to contribute in big ways for the Irish this season. Ellery can play inside or shoot the outside jumper, while Bennett will contribute to a strong Irish perimeter game. 
Phelps wants to allow the four freshmen -twins Jon and Joe Ross, Carl Cozen and Brooks Boyer -to develop at their own pace. 
"There is no pressure on them." Phelps said. "It will be interesting to just see what they can do." 
-·· 


The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism  

1800 545·1990Ext. 33 



page 16 The Observer Monday, October 15, 1990 
Lost 
continued from page 20 
refusal to take the floor. "We'd 
been warming up for an hour 
and 45 minutes." 
The Irish took the early lead 
1-0 on a kill by Jessica 
Fiebelkorn (15 kills, 14 digs 
.483 hit percentage) from the 
back row. Indiana caught the 
Irish at three, and then looked 
like they may run away with the 
game as they pulled out to an 8­
3 lead behind the hitting of 
Diane Hoereth (18 kills). Alicia 
Turner made it 8-4 with a ser­
vice ace. but then served into 
the net. Indiana extended the 
lead to 9-4 before Marilyn 
Cragin (10 kills) got a side out 
and a point with two powerful 
cross-court kills. 
Indiana moved ahead· 12-7 
but that was all the points 
Indiana would get for the game. 
Cragin set Choqette (19 kills 
.378 percentage) for a kill down 
the left sideline to make it 12-9. 
Notre Dame tied the score at 12 
on a Fiebelkorn ace. The Irish 
took the lead for good when 
Turner put down an errant 
Hoosier pass that hung up over the net. Choquette made it 14-12 with a solo block and IU hit long to finish the game. 

Game two was close at 4-3 before the Irish ran off eight straight points. Choquette had three aces in the run including one that looked like a punt finding the coffin corner. The Irish only lost service once and that was quickly regained by Turner, who led the Irish with 20 kills. 
Then the walls caved in. The Irish scored only one more point as IU came back to win. 
"We just let up." said Choqette. "They changed their offense and started going to more offspeed tips. That threw us off. I think we lost some intensity when they started coming back. After we lost that game. the momentum really shifted." 
"I can't really say what hap­pened in that game," explained Fiebelkorn. "They did some smart things to counter our plans. but we just didn't react fast enough to what they were doing." 
·The Irish had a chance in game three. After the Hoosiers broke an 8-8 tie, Turner gave the Irish the lead with two beautiful tips around the Indiana block. A Colleen Jordan kill tied it at 10 for IU and Irish mistakes contributed to Indiana running off four of the las~ five points. Those mistakes were epitomized when the Irish stood and watched helplessly as a Cragin dig fell to the floor for the final point. 
"I don't think Indiana was more talented than us," said Fiebelkorn. "Matching up one to one we're better than a lot of teams we play. But that's not really a factor." 
There was no question about yesterday's match with Ohio State. The Buckeyes took 55 minutes to beat the Irish 15-2. 15-1. 15-6. The Irish hit only .106 for the match and had a mere 23 kills. Fiebelkorn and Choqette each had six. 
"Realistically our team goal is to win the MCC Championship." said Choquette. "We have to forget about what's happened and start with our next match against Minnesota."· 
"We're still looking for an­swers," said Fiebelkorn. "I think we need to be more intense on every point. We have to take things one game at a time the rest of the way." 

Series revives memories of 1972 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Eighteen years ago, they were the Swingin' A's and the Big Red Machine, bad-looking dudes against a clean-cut crew. All of them swung mean sticks. 
Reggie Jackson was yet to be christened "Mr. October." Pete Rose, Johnny Bench and Joe Morgan were just finding out how good they were. 
No one knew then they would be the best teams of the '70s. And we haven't seen anything that good since. 
When Oakland and Cincinnati meet in Game 1 of the World Series on Tuesday night, it will bring back the memories of 1972. 
Just like now, Cincinnati won the National League pennant by 
)(/'~····· 
._, .· '·'f 
-
' . 
It

1 l 
l 
·beating Pittsburgh. Williams. To many, they were 
Just like now, people poured 
into Fountain Square to cele­old guard. they were brate the return of the NL flag with long hair. to the Queen City. Now, it's shortstop Walt Weiss 
Just like now, Oakland came who is the Oakland casualty. in missing a starter because of a Then it was Jackson, playoff injury. cleanup hitter and main man. Just like now, a tight-fisted IC>:O~~N:;>:<?::;O::O::O::<;;:ol 
owner who loved animals held sway over a team. 
The 1972 A's were the van­guard of '70s baseball. Nineteen of the 25 were mustachioed, and so was their manager, Dick 
Regis has great new hairstyles just for you ... For the best in you! Shampoo, cut & style, only $14 

Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 

Irish aren't disappointed after second-place finish 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
At first glance, it might look like the Notre Dame women's cross country team should be disappointed with its second­place finish at the Indiana Intercollegiate Championship held at Indiana State on Friday. After all. the Irish were beaten by Purdue 39-60, after defeating the Boilermakers last weekend the Notre Dame Invitational. 
In reality, it was probably the best performance for the Irish this season. They placed seven runners in the top thirty, in­cluding two in the top ten. 
Purdue's Amy Koontz took first-place honors, coming home in a time of 18:19.5 for the 
5.000 meters. 

A rejuvenated Diana Bradley led the Irish. posting a seventh­place finish with a time of 
18:44. It was the best race she has run since the Georgetown meet Sept. 15. Of course, Ms. Consistency Amy Blaising was right there ·also, placing eighth with a time of 18:48. Senior captain Terese Lemanski re­bounded from a disappointing race last week to place a strong eleventh in the meet covering the distance in 18:56. 
"It was a real good perfor­mance. Diana Bradley and Terese Lemanski came back real strong. As always, Amy Blaising was really solid." said Irish coach Tim Connelly. 
The remaining Irish finishers were Patty Villarreal (16th­19:07),. Renee Kaptur (18th­19:10), Lisa Gorski (22nd­19:18), Sarah Esterline (29th­19:46). and Andrea Sullivan (37th-20:08). 
Again. Connelly was particu­larly pleased with the perfor­mance of freshman Patty Villarreal, saying, "She needs to gain more confidence and know she can compete with the top four (runners). but she can close with anyone." 
"Well. people will say, "They beat Purdue before, so they should have won." . but Purdue ran horribly at Notre Dame Invitational and ran about the best they could on Friday. We're improving every week and you can't ask for anything more," said Connelly. 



When and Where: Monday, October 15, 1990 
1:00-2:30 

Center for Continuing Education 
ETS Theater (basement) 
Apple Computer, Inc., maker of the Macintosh and Apple family of personal comput­ers, is hosting a major product introduction event. This event will be broadcast live via satellite to the Notre Dame campus! 
This broadcast will introduce three exciting new products that will break some of Macintosh's traditional price and performance boundaries. These exciting products will be showcased in Apple's Fremont, California and Singapore factories; as well as 
by customer demonstrations, live via satellite, in East Germany; Erie, Pennsylvania; 
Des Moines, Iowa; Kirkland, Washington. 

For more information call Information Resource Center (IRC) at 239-8111. 


The Power to be Your Best. 
Monday, October 15, 1990 The Observer 
Jacobs, Danapilis lead ND to win 
Special to the Observer relief. allowing only one walk second baseman Greg Layson. and striking out five. Alan Notre Dame got two back in 
Frank Jacobs launched a two-Walania pitched a shutout ninth. the bottom of the third when run homer and Eric Danapilis Air Force opened the scoring Frank Jacobs slammed a two­had four hits as the Notre Dame against Price in the first with run shot to right after Danapilis baseball team beat Air Force three runs. With one out, David had singled. 12-5 Friday night at Coveleski O'Keefe singled and Mike In the fifth. Counsell singled Stadium. Kazlausky reached on first and Danapilis knocked him in 
The win. wh1ch concluded the baseman Joe Binkiewicz's two with a double. Jacobs then fall season for the Irish, put error.s, one a botched fielding walked. and Edwin Hartwell Notrn Dame's fall season record play when Rinkiewicz charged followed with a well placed bunt at 3-2. including a two-game Kazlausky's dribbler down the down the third-base line but sweep of Air Force. The Irish first-base line and another when was called out on interference beat the Falcons 8-2 Thursday he threw wild into right field, with the catcher. Binkiewicz night. trying to throw out Kazlausky at then walked, loading the bases. 
Jacobs's home run gave him first. Layson then grounded to first two during the fall. The first Outfielder Ian Pharris followed baseman O'Keefe, who threw came two weeks ago when he with a double that scored both home to catcher Steve Cowart launched a towering blast to runners, and Vern Mullis for the force. Cowart, however, right center against Wichita knocked in Pharris with a sin­failed to step on the plate, and State. Danapilis, 4-for-5 Friday gle. the score was 5-5. night, was 6-for-7 in the two-In the bottom of the inning, Freshman catcher Matt Haas, game series with Air Force with Notre Dame put a run on the substituting for Cory Mee, six runs scored and three RBI. board when Dan Bautch walked walked ,with the bases still 
In the game Friday, Irish and moved around the bases on loaded to make it 6-5, and an­starter Tom Price pitched five two wild pitches and a passed other run came across when innings for the win, allowing ball. pitcher Brad Smith threw a wild five hits, one walk and five runs Opening the second with the pitch. (two earned). He struck out five. score 3-1, Air Force scored two Notre Dame added to its lead 
Irish sophomore Pat Leahy more runs on two Notre Dame in the sixth an seventh innings, entered in the sixth and pitched errors, one by third baseman scoring a run both times on er-three innings of near-perfect Craig Counsell and another by 
rors by Cowart. In the sixth, Danapilis came home on
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ Cowart's passed ball, and in the 
seventh Layson scored when he stole third and Cowart's throw
: ~ : 
went into left field. ~ ~ In the eighth with the score 9­5, the Irish scored three more
~ GO TRIXIE! ~ 
runs. Counsell walked and ~ 1GO TRIXIE! ~ Danapilis doubled to put run­ners on second and third. ~ GO TRIXIE! ~ Jacobs's sacrifice fly to center scored Counsell and sent ~ ~ Danapilis to third. making it 10­
~ ~ 5.Danapilis scored when first 'Keefe bobbled
~ ~ baseman O 
pinch-hitter Dave Yawman's
~ HAPPX!JIRTHDA Y, KID! ~ round ball. Yawman moved to
gthird when Korey Wrobleski
t ~
Eli, Cath, and 

singled, and scored on a 
~ your many men ~ 
fielder's choice when Wrobleski was caught stealing at second. 
page 17 

SPORTS BRIEFS The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts today at 7 p.m. 
St. Mary's varsity basketball practice will begin today from 8 -10 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in being on the team is welcome. 
The ND/SMC Ski Team will hold a meeting today at 8 p.m. in Rm. 127 Nieuwland Science Building. At the meeting, $100 deposits will be collected for the Steamboat Trip over Christmas Break and turtlenecks will be handed out. Bring your checkbooks. Call Mike at 271-8901 or Rob at x3588 if you have questions or r.an't make the meeting. 
Talk to Rick Telander, the infamous co-author of Sports Illustrated's Steve Huffman story, live on WVFI-640 AM SPORTSTALK this Tuesday from 8-9 p.m. Join hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan, as they discuss the commercialization and contamination of college football. Call in at 239-6400. 
Virginia now on top of poll 
The National Collegiate Sportswriters· 
By RENE FERRAN 

Poll, with last week's rankings, Sports Writer 
records, first place votes in parentheses, and total points: 
Virginia moved into the top spot 
in this week's National 

1 (2) Virginia (20) 6-0 512 Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll 2 (3) Miami. Fla (2) 4-1 471.5 released Sunday night, while 3 (7) Tennessee (1) 4-0-2 463 the Irish moved to· no. 6. 4 (5) Auburn 4-0-1 431 Twenty-six schools participated 5 (6) Nebraska (2) 6-0 424 in this week's balloting. 6 (8) Notre Dame 4-1 374.5 
7 (9) Florida State 4-1 339 
The Cavaliers. 31-0 victors over 

8 (1) Michigan (1) 3-2 336 North Carolina State, received 9 ( 11 ) Houston 5-0 269 20 out of a possible 26 first­10 (4) Oklahoma 5-1 265 place votes and 512 total points. 11 (13) Illinois 4-1 254 Miami moved into the no. 2 spot 12 (12) Brigham Young 5-1 213 after defeating Kansas 34-0. 13 (18) Georgia Tech 5-0 197 14 (14) usc 5-1 182
The Hurricanes gained two 

15 (17) Washington 5-1 178.5
first-place votes and 471.5 total 

16 (15) Colorado 5-1-1 175
points. Tennessee jumped four 

17 (1 0) Florida 5-1 106.5
spots to third with its 45-3 

18 (nr) Wyoming 7-0 53
victory against Florida. 

19 (nr) Michigan State 2-2-1 44 
Notre Dame, with 374.5 points. 

20 (nr) Indiana 4-0-1 34 
climbed from eighth to sixth after its 57-27 victory over the Othersreceivingvotes:Misstssippi
31. Texas 28. Clemson 21, Iowa 21. Air Force. Michigan, last week's TexasA&Mte.oregon9.Tcu 4. no. 1, fell to eighth with its 28-Penn State 3. Toledo 2. Arizona t.
Schools participating this week: 
27 loss to in-state rival Utah.Michigan.BaiiState.Kentucky,PennState, Michigan State. However, the WestVirginia.Nebraska.Miami.Colorado.
Arizona. Alabama. Syracuse. Illinois. Brown. 
Wolverines still did receive one Kansas. Oregon State. Columbia. Purdue. Florida. first-place vote. Oregon. Cornell. Texas. Wisconsin. Arizona State.
Notre Dame. Harvard 
p,_;.EW..<~~---: --~-:~·:. ~--<. ~:~~:~::~:X~C<··:~~:,w(~-,..,... -:~:.Nr..<.:~. ::«&:: X~t<::~·:: :«>::. :~. ::«-· ::.3"/.~4C'{::~ :,..:.:~:,w(~Xie{~:~::~-.:::..c,
I ~ :, 
I 
. I 
Do you want to earn $75 from $1 ?? 
I

'Tfiis game is for ')'"O'l.l!!!! 
'Everyom wlio sitfns up will 6t issuetf a cart! witf. a random name I
... 

on Octo6tr 29tf.. '11u game 6tgins! · 
I 
:Jirui your victim & 6fast '•m witf. water!! 
:Have a witness sitfn your cart! arui t~ your victim$ card:
I :Jirui tf.is person and' 6last ·em witli water!!! 
I -~""so on ...... 'Until you are uft as sou survivor wim 17S!!!! 
I I I 
Sign up at SOUTH DINING HALL October 15-19 5:00-6:30 BRING YOUR DOLLAR! 
@ 

~TUDE NT 
GOY!IIIIIl 
If 
1! 
~ 
I I
~ 
r: 
~ 0 
I 
I 
SMC will try to rebound from loss to Calvin 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team lost to Calvin College 1-0 Saturday at Calvin in a critical game that will affect the chances of a post-season NCAA bid. 
The Belles started out slug­gishly against Calvin and con­tinued to play poorly throughout the first half. Calvin took advantage of the situation and scored the only goal of the game near the end of the first half. 
The Belles pulled together in the second half playing a more intense game. Saint Mary's had opportunities to score, but they were unable to capitalize. 
"The team lost their compo­sure," said Coach Tom Van Meter. "We played a good second half but we were unable to convert the chances we had into goals." 
The Belles (11-2-1) will face a difficult task today when they play Notre Dame in a highly emotional game at Saint Mary's Field at 4 p.m. The match pits a tough Irish squad against a growing Division III Belles team. 
Saint Mary's is counting on the senior leadership to guide the Belles, who barely lost to the Irish last year 1-0. Captains Trish Troester. Marcie Gaus. and Amy Ross will lead the team in shutting down the Notre Dame offensive and defensive game plan. 
Troester plays a major part in setting up many scoring op­portunities as she has done all year. Junior I;orward Greer Gilliland is also a great assett to the Belles offense and she will prove tough in tomorrow's game. Gaus, Hoss, and Kelly Cook lead the defense. 
Junior goalie Mary Alice O'Neill will play a vital role in her first game against riv:~l 
Quit smoking. 
&•aAmerican Heart .,_, Association 

A CAREER RIGHT HEREIN MICHIANA!!! 
Page 18 The Observer 
Monday. October 15, 1990 

Belles, Irish psyched for today's big soccer match 
NO ready for challenge after trouncing of Northwestern 

By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team. gearing up for a meeting with cross-street rival Saint Mary's College. handily dispatched the Northwestern Wildcats 11-1 on Saturday morning at Alumni Field. 
The Irish, who came into Saturday's game ranked ninth in the central region, upped their record to 11-3-1. In the game, the high-powered Notre Dame offense launched 30 shots, while Northwestern managed only six. 
"Northwestern is not a bad team," remarked Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "I thought that we played really well -maybe the best we've played all year. 

The Observer/Kenneth Osgood 
"One thing that made a big difference for us was that Coach

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Berticelli [Irish men's soccer 

women's soccer squads will 
coach] did a session with us on 

square off at 4 p.m. today. 
moving the ball around. Of Notre Dame. O'Neill has course. this team does recorded seven shutouts in the everything you ask of it, and last 14 games. they showed that today because 
"The Belles face two major they really moved the ball well. obstacles." said Van Meter. "We Nobody has blown 
had a tough loss to Notre Dame 
Northwestern out like this all ========:::==:::===:::::=:::===:::=:::;:::::==::::=::::::::::======n:
and the Irish had an impressive win over Northwestern." ye~~: Irish first scored 17:59 
Saint Mary's will have to play into the game. A crowd of play-an almost perfect game today to ers was swarming the ball at come away victorious. The team the left front corner of the spirit and confidence along with 
penalty box when Marianne 

the tremendous talent will help 
Giolitto dumped it back to 

the Belles' efforts. Stephanie Porter. who was 
"We have to play the best de-· trailing the play up the center. fensive game we can," said co­Porter then beat the Wildcat captain Amy Hoss. "If we can goalie. placing her shot in the 
control their defense we will be left corner of the net. able to take advantage offen­
Notre Dame rattled off six sively and win the game." more goals before the half, The two teams are counting on tremendous student support from both sides. "This game is a chance for the students to show their true school spirit." said co­captain Trish Troester. "The 


swelling its advantage to 7-0. 
In the second half, the Irish attack poured on much of the same, as sophomore Denise Chabot ran wild on the Northwestern defense. 
Christie Lewis first found the net at the 56:56 minute mark. taking an assist from Chabot and drilling it into the right corner. 
With the Irish leading 8-0. the Wildcat offensive corps finally clicked, escaping shutout at the 
62:20 mark. 

Michelle Hurst finished the Irish scoring with an stunning shot from far outside on the right front corner of the penalty box. Her shot sailed high across the front of the net and into the lower lefthand corner of the goal. 
Michelle Lodyga and Cara Lewis. who split the Irish goal­tending duties, recorded six saves on the day. On the season, they have a combined 1.06 GAA. 
Today at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's Field. Notre Dame takes on the rival Belles of Saint Mary's, in a game which puts pride as well as records on the line. 
"It's obviously a big rivalry between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," observed Petrucelli. "This is a great game for both teams. as well as a good game for the community of South Bend and soccer in this area. I just hope that both teams play to their capabilities and that we put on something that is enjoy­able to watch. 
"I think that Saint Mary's is a very good team. and they've been doing great all year. I'm sure that they've been looking forward to playing. and we are too. I expect a nice crowd and I think that it's going to be a good game." 
Molly Lennon. a junior sweeper from South Bend. con­curred. 
"This is going to be a great game. We aren't taking this lightly at all. This game means a great deal to us as far as the future and our striving for re­spect is concerned. We are go­ing out to take it to them and put them away early. Last year there were a lot of questions and "what ifs" -this year we're out to put those questions to rest." 
CH......CA--GO
1 
MOTOR
CLUB 

John p. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AAA-CHlCAGO MOTOR CLUB 
5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please •*tor John O'Male . 
SENIOR CLASS 

HALLOWEEN PARTY 
Best Costume Contest lsi prize 35mm camera 
Oct. 31 
Benefits go to Senior Formal 

Be a FIELD UNDERWRITER with Indiana's oldest and strongest mutual. "A+ Superior" rated 
Alumni Matt Spellman e 
Badin Kelli Fitzpatrick • 
B-P Jennifer Cabel 
Carroll John Fiero • 
American United has $4 Billion in 
assets. 

Cavanaugh Jim Hawkins e Farley Barb Rossman e Fisher Chris Pastega e
Sign up for on-campus interviews 

Flanner Mike Hobbs
Mon Oct 15 

Grace John Stewart • Howard Allison Connolly •
Toes Oct 16 

Keenan Frank Barletta e
at Career and Placement for interviews taking place 
Knott Julia Bradley e Lewis Katie Bambrick e Lyons Gabriella Gonzale. 
on Nov. 6 to start on your own professional practice 
using the Financial Need Analysis process. 

Laura Psouts Morrissey Kevin Roxas • Pangborn Douglas Webb e
For more information in South Bend:232-3222 
P.E. Lori Brossard e 
P.W. Amv Rohs e St. Ed's Jim Mccarthy Siegfried Amy Listerman 
•

AMERICAN UNITED Kelly Madden 
• 

• 
Sorin Jim Joyce • Stanford Chris Infante e Walsh Julie White e Zahm Mike Lane • 
OF INDIANAPOLIS 
• Jon Peppetti • 
'I' 

Monday, October 15, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Monday 
2 p.m. "Sports and Entertainment Law" Lee Steinberg and Roger Valdiserri, attorneys from Southern California and Notre Dame. Law School Courtroom (Room 222). Sponsored by Student Bar Association. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Kellogg S~minar (Brown Bag Lunch) "Brazil Beyond the Threshold of Crisis: The Collor Plan," Lourdes Sola, Faculty Fellow. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
12 p.m. "Women and International Business," Dr. Ulma Sekaran, Southern Illinois University. Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by the Department of Business and Economics and M.I.N.T. 
12:10 p.m. "Basic Car Care II," Marty Ogren, John Hirschler and Indiana State Police. Transportation Center (Maintenance Building). Sponsored by The Year of Women. 
CAMPUS Monday 
7 p.m. Information meeting on the London & Rome Summer Programs. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's Col­lege. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Meatloaf Chicken Teriyaki Pasta Primavera 


46 Sgt.'s 55 Nineteenth U.S. right-hand man President 5& Medicate
47 Hangs on to 58 Otologist's
so Tales 
concern 51 Some lroquoian 
59 SackIndians 

&o "--pro nobis" 53 Utopian 
61-Abner 54 Simpletons &3 Ex-G.I. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
ACROSS 
1 "When I was "· Gilbert 5 Gaelic language 9 Eire's largest county 13 Israeli dance 14Animals 16 Reed instrument 17 Observer 19 Writer Lardner 20 Certain oil paintings 21 Instructor 23 Reduce drastically 24 Surprise 28 Caravansary 
30 Change secret signals 31 Small cobra 34 Kind of blue 36 Spruce or bay 37 Daisylike flowers 
42 Nonsense! 43-away (erode) 
44 Vane reading 45 Light into 48Gamete 49 Keenly perceptive 52 Behind the-­ball 57 Make as profit 58 Inspire affection 59 Philippine machete 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Sleuth 64 Melody for Myra 
Merritt 65 Grimace 66 On a voyage 67 Impudence 68 Atl. crossers 69 For fear that 
DOWN 
1 Attention getters 2 Faithful 3 Amphitheater section 4 Coolidge's Vice President 5 Salamanders 6 Skedaddled 7 Fatty a Follow 9 Rectifies 10 Nagasaki sash 11 Baseball's Guidry 12 Small cask 
15 Actress Mary 18 "-,therefore
I am" 
22 Untie, to Keats 
25 Writer Ephron et al. 
2& Barbara and Anthony 
27 Former Dodger shortstop 
29 Highlander's refusal 
31 Diplomat Eban's namesakes 
32 Laziness 33 Fettuccine, e.g. 35 Evergreen 38 Drawing crayon 39 Legal <;iocument 40Decline 41 Imperative 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 


Hopeful parents 

~E Sft..'iS l C>B'IIO\lSl'i OlD 1\<:l R£'5£ARGI 'tiAATSOt'JtR ~ ~TS "'I'ID lt\ft..T M.'i 
SCI~NDF\C. llL\lS\AAiiON 
LOOKs LIKE l ~1\\£ 
Bft.TM"'N ~ ~0 t>.DO£D 
~GS.' 
AH DON'1 UNN£RSTAND Al..L THIS 
R£C£N T REC'/CLI/11' FUSS. WE BIN DOIN' II FER 'fE.ARS. 

BILL WATTERSON 
.. 

1'\C>THI~G. ~NO IF ~0\l'li Gl'4t ~£ ~ H~O HER£, IT 'rilll SO.'f -m.rW/t..~.  ·-_,  
- 


----------------~=-~----~-------------------------------~--~---------------------------------­
Sports 

Irish slam Falcons; now can focus on Hurricanes 

Team has a lot of work to do before it is ready for Miami 
By GREG GUFFEY can focus on them," said Irish 
run of his career (41 yards).

Sports Editor cornerback Todd Lyght. 
The Falcons did have some 

The outcome of Saturday's 
rushing success out of the 

Notre Dame took some big game with Air Force was never 
wishbone. They ran for 244 

steps in Saturday afternoon's really in doubt. The Irish tallied 
yards, the most yards allowed 

rout of Air Force. the first three scores to take a 
by the t-Jotre Dame defense 

But Coach Lou Holtz said the 17-0 lead and then increased 
since the season opener with 

Irish must take the biggest steps that margin to 31-7 at halftime. 
Michigan. Quarterback Hob 

this week in practice before Air Force controlled the ball­
Perez led the Air Force attack 

Saturday's showdown with more than 38 minutes to Notre 
with 118 yards on the ground. 

MiamL Dame's 21 -but the Irish 
"We always expect to run the 
Notre Dame bounced back controlled the game. 
ball that well," said DeBerry,

from a shocking loss to Stanford "We dug ourselves a hole 
whose team was averaging 257 

and routed the Falcons 57-27 early," Air Force Coach Fisher 
rushing yards per game. 

before the customary 59,075 in DeBerry said. "We just didn't 
Said Holtz, "The wishbone is 

Notre Dame Stadium. The win give ourselves a chance to be in 
hard to stop. Our first team 

showed the Irish could rebound the football game today. I think 
gave up 14 points, but they

from a defeat. but it also you will find them in the hunt 
were also getting some positive

showed there is still much room for the national championship at 
field position. When they were 
for improvement. the end of the year." 
able to get a rhythm, we 

"I was glad to win and we It was a record-setting day for 
weren't able to take them out of 
needed to see a few more posi­several Irish players.­
that rhythm." 

tive things," Holtz said. "We •Notre Dame's 57 points were 
Craig Hentrich put the Irish 

have to make an awful lot of the most ever allowed by an Air 
on the board first when he con­

progress this week in prepara­Force team. Colorado State had 
nected on a 28-yard field goal

tion for MiamL We never made the previous high of 54 in 1971. 
on Notre Dame's first posses-­

the big play today, but we are •Raghib Ismail set career sion. 
going to have to do that next highs in receptions (6), receiving 
Ryan Mihalko got credit for 

week." yards (172) and all-purpose 
the next two Irish scores when 
Notre Dame can now turn its yards (223). 
he blocked two punts that led to 

attention to the long-awaited •Quarterback Rick Mirer set a 
two touchdowns. Notre Dame 

showdown with Miami, set for career high with 253 yards 
recovered the first punt at the 

2:30 p.m. Saturday in Notre passing and tied his career mark 
two-yard line and tailback 

Dame Stadium. The winner of of two touchdown passes in one 
Dorsey Levens scored on the 
that game the past two seasons game. 
next play.

has won the national champi­•Fullback Rodney Culver had 
The Irish recovered the sec­

onship. his second consecutive 100-yard "They're finally here and we rushing game and the longest see WIN I page 13 
Ismail rockets back into Heisman race after sitting out Stanford game last week 
SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
"That (the Heisman trophy) is Asst. Sports Editor the furthest thing from my mind," said Ismail. 
Seemingly making up for time Heisman mumbles might lost Oct. 6 versus Stanford, have been shouts instead, had Raghib Ismail rocketed his way Ismail had an opportunity to back into Heisman form return any more balls. Back for Saturday, setting career highs every kickoff and punt, Ismail for pass receptions (six), pass could only watch as punts
Scott Brutocao 
receiving yardage (172) and all­sailed out of bounds and purpose yardage (223) in the Assistant Sports Editor kickoffs flew to players 10-20 57-27 Irish victory over Air yards in front of him. Force. "It wasn't frustrating," said 
In Notre Dame Stadium after Ismail. "I guess it's just a kind the game, fans filed through the of respect." exits mumbling "Heisman." and It was the ultimate sign of re­reporters maneuvered around spect, and the only time Ismail
What they found was a soft­
discarded towels and uniforms did get a chance to return one
spoken Ismail with a towel over 
in the locker room seeking was on a punt after a safety in
his head, as if to hide from the 
Ismail's confirmation of those the third quarter. In that
inevitable questions that were mumblings. 
about to come. see ROCKET I page 13 


ND volleyball once again is the center of attention 
Women lose to Weekly soap opera frustrating for Indiana, Ohio St. players and reporters alike 
over weekend Like a never ending soap opera, the plot continues to
By MIKE KAMRADT 

thicken for the Notre Dame
Sports Writer 

women's volleyball team. Once again, interim coach MariaThings were looking bright for Perez continued to exercise herthe women's volleyball team constitutional right to not talk toFriday night. They came out the press after a match.
fired up and aggressive in game It's one thing when she re­

one after Indiana delayed taking Mike Kamradt 
fuses to answer questions about the floor for 45 minutes. They the Art Lambert situation. But Sports Writer won that game 15-12 and then when she won't even answerblew out to a 12-3 lead in the questions about the match, shesecond game. But... 
has a problem.
Indiana came back to win that It's frustrating as a reportergame 15-13 and then went on to to cover an event and then nottake the next two games. 15-11 be able to hear how the coach

and 15-8. to win the match. tion, I learned that Indiana was
feels. Lou Holtz, who obviously
The Irish were vocal on the protesting the match and re­
was very disappointed after
court and excited in game one. fused to play. After a meeting
losing to Stanford. talked to the
M~r each point they huddled at with assistant athletic director
press. Come on Maria. lighten
center court and shouted, up. Missy Conboy, in which she in­"IRISH!" formed the Indiana players
But that's not even the tip of
"We were upset by what they she'd be sending letters to the
the iceberg. Upon arriving at
tried to do," said Chris NCAA and the Big Ten, IU de­
the Joyce ACC Friday night, I
Choquette referring to Indiana's cided to take the floor.
was told there would be no match. Upon further investiga-see VOLLEY I page 13
see LOST 1page 16 











