
VOL. XXIII NO. 96 FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 23, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NO Law School protests ABA stance on abortion 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
The Law School faculty at Notre Dame has taken a stance against the American Bar As­sociation's (ABA) opposition to restrictions on abortion rights. 
At a Feb. 20 faculty meeting, Notre Dame's law faculty by a 

Rafts needed 
majority vote adopted a resolu­tion which describes the ABA's decision to support abortion rights as "wholly inappropriate and beyond the competence of the ABA," according to Michael Garvey, assistant director of Public Relations and Informa­tion. 
"We're not saying they should have taken the opposite posi-

Juniors Tom Sessi and Dave Diluciano wade through the floodwater in front of Pangborn Hall. Snow is ex­pected to add to the messy conditions today. 
Campaigning for class officers begins Monday 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Campaigning for 1990-1991 class officers begins Monday, and elections will be held on March 5. 
Candidates for president, vice presidr,nt, secretary and trea­surer run on joint tickets. Run­ning for senior class offices this year. in the order of presi­dential. vice presidential, secre­tarial and treasurer candi­dates, are the ticket of Michael Shinniek, Dennis Lynch, Molly Grunenwald and Jennifer Lint­ing and the ticket of Steve Cur­tis, John Fletcher, Dave Brown and Pat Healy. 
Running for junior class of­fice are Rob Pritchard. Jim McGuire, Ashok Rodrigues, and Dave Jacobson, a ticket consisting of John Coffey, Brian Murphy, Kristin Gafvert and Julie Robertson and the ticket of Jennifer Switzer. Steve Hanson, Megan Weyers and Tim Thornton. 
Sophomore class candidates include the ticket of Rob Hor­ton. Mike Griffin, Catherine Danahy and Anthony Cornetta, the ticket of Joe Wilson, Julie Bradley, Anthony Aguilar and Dan Walter, the ticket of Patrick Mixon, Dave Cathcart, Robin Stumpf and Molly O'Neill, the ticket of Jay Dettling, Margaret Tortorella, Angela Smith and Christopher Boone, the ticket of Keith McKeon, Kristen Clark, Joe Virgil and Ken McGrath, the ticket of Lynn Ramsay, Scott Boehnen, Greg Butrus and Jenny Witt and the ticket of Sonia Miller, Dave Certo, Shawn Duffy and Rob Hennings. 

Voting will again take place in dorms. A runoff election, if necessary, will be held on March 7. 
sors effective Sept. 1 unless the lar action. The Texas state bar ABA has rescinded its abortion has scheduled a vote to decide resolution, Garvey said. whether to withdraw from the 
Notre Dame pays the annual ABA's policy-making House of $1,900 dues for about 30 law Delegates over the abortion is­faculty members of the bar as­sue. sociation, Link said. The delegates, meeting Feb. A spokeswoman at ABA head­13 in Los Angeles, voted by a 2­quarters in Chicago said 1 margin to oppose legislation Thursday she knows of no or other government action other law school taking a simi-see ABA I page 8 
Reagan says he didn't know about Contra aid 
Testifies for Poindexter trial 
WASHINGTON (AP) Former President Reagan tes­tified in a videotaped deposition released Thursday he never "had any inkling" his aides were secretly arming the Nicaraguan Contras during a congressional ban on military aid. 
In testimony for the upcoming trial of John Poindexter, the former president also said he remained unconvinced there 

had been a diversion of Iran 
John Poindexter

arms sale money to the rebels -until prosecutors confronted him with the report of the He said at numerous points Tower Commission he ap­that he couldn't recall a date, a pointed. name, whether someone had 
Reagan said he would have told him something or not. expected Poindexter, his former Reagan said decisively that he national security adviser, to in­agreed with a letter Poindexter form him of any diversion of sent Congress saying the White funds to the Contras "unless House was complying with the maybe he thought he was pro­ban on help for the Contras ­tecting me from something." a letter that forms part of the 
Reagan's testimony was basis for one charge Poindexter taken in Los Angeles last week faces. and made available in Washing­But he also said, when told by ton. The former president was prosecutors, that he was learn­jovial and testy by turns during ing from them for the first time eight hours -winking at that former National Security Poindexter as he took the stand Adviser Robert McFarlane, and talking amiably with the Poindexter's predecessor, had judge but also answering in pleaded guilty to misleading abrupt fashion when Iran-Con­Congress in the affair. tra prosecutor Dan Webb said Reagan testified, "It was my he wasn't addressing a ques­tion. see REAGAN 1page 8 tion," said David Link, dean of the Law School. "They just shouldn't be in this when you think of the division that still exists among members of the bar association and in the courts." 
The law school faculty has also recommended to Link that the Law School stop paying ABA dues for member profes-
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

SMC Soph. Parents' Weekend events 

Friday, Feb. 23 

3 p.m. ~ 6 p.m. Regjstration; reception desk at Haggar College Center. 
8 p.m. -10 p.m. Movie, "Pare:JJthood," Car~ roll Hall. 
8 p.m. "Michael Mauldin in an Evening with Mark Twain," O'LiwghlinAuditorfum. 

Saturday, Feb. 24 

9 a.m. ·11 a.m. Late registration, Haggar College Center. Reception. 
9:30 a.m. · 10:30 a.m. "Financial Aid In~ formation Session," Mary Nucdarone, as­sistant director of Financial Aid. Game room, Haggar College Center. 
"Difficulties in Career Decision Making," Karen Kylf). care~r counselor. 303 Haggar College Center, · 
10:45 a.m. -11 =45<.~~m. "Life After..~aint Mary·~, .. Karen Ky~~! care~f counselor; 303 Haggar College C';Jnter •.;;;t1,, 
"Telling Family Stories,~ Ann Loux, assistant professor of English. Parlor. Haggar College Center. 
1 p.m. -3 p.m. Academic Open House, Regina North Lounge. 
4:30 p.m. · 5:30 p_m. Mass at Church of Loretto. 
6 p.m. -7 p.m. Social hour at Century Cen~ ter. 
7:15 p.m. -7:45 p.m. Welcome: Patricia McGowan, Sophomore Parents Weekend chairperson. William Hicket, president of Saint Mary's College. 
7:45 p.m. Dinner. 
9:30 p.m. -1 a.m. Dance. 

Sunday,Feb.25 
9:3Qa.m. ~ 11 a.m. ·Brunch, Dining lthll. 
page 2 The Observer Friday, February 23, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
NO's slip-up on 
ice removal is 



a good lesson 
It's always nice to have a friend lend a hand when you're down. 
Regis Coccia 
That thought came home to me as my Managing Editor friend Tim reached down to help me up after I slipped on a sheet of ice outside my dorm last week. 
"Are you all right?" he asked. 
"Oh, I'm fine," I said, brushing myself off. "But I wonder how many people got hurt in falls like that. It doesn't look like anyone cleared the walkways." 
"There's not that much snow, either. I'm surprised that nothing was done to the ice," Tim said. 
"You can't get any traction at all," I said, sliding alongside. "This is ridiculous. Why wasn't salt or sand put on the ice?" 
"Even kitty litter would help. You'd think the University would do something before the snow iced over, especially with Junior Parents' Weekend going on." 
I thought to myself, "If this is a hazard to students, what's going to happen when par­ents fall? Notre Dame will be up to Mary's golden ears in lawsuits." Maybe the warm weather caught people off guard. 
"Nah, the warm weather was just Mother Nature setting us up for the grim reality of South Bend weather," Tim said. "Did you really expect to have spring in February?" 
After a few near misses and waddling like penguins to avoid falling, Tim and I made it to LaFortune. Getting around campus was treacherous, to say the least. 
We saw lots of people slip and slide. Most left the walkways and treaded across the 
quads. It wasn't easier to walk on the snow, 
but there was less chance of slipping and 
falling and risking serious injury. 
Fortunately, there is a relatively easy 
solution to the problem of icy walkways. 
Salt the walks. Put sand on them. Plow the 
walks, don't brush them. Chip the ice, chop 
it up or scrape it away. Do anything to 
improve traction. 
The fact that more tracks are found on 
the quads than on the walks makes the 
need for a better method of clearing the 
walks obvious. The machine with the over­
size brush that clears powdery snow from 
the walks is not only ineffective against ice; 
it polishes it to an even more slippery sheen. 
Caring for Notre Dame's 1,250 green 
acres in four season is a big job, and a 
necessary one. Looking out for trouble be­
fore it happens will make life on campus a 
little easier -and a little safer -for 
everyone. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 
Friday's Staff 
News Production Ad Design
Cristina Oritz Tim O'Keefe Shannon Roach 
Sandra Wiegand Lisa Eaton Amy Eckert 
Maureen Nelligan Kerry Clair 
VIewpointDannika Simpson Kathleen O'Connor 
Lisa Eaton Maria Blohm 
Accent 
Colleen Cronin SportsPaul Pearson Systems Frank Pastor 
Cesar Capella
Brian Grunert Ken Tysiac 
Deirdre Bell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) rs publrshed Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatron penods The Observer rs a member of the Assocrated Press. All reproductron rrghts are reserved 

WEATHER 
Yesterday's high: 48 Yesterday's low: 39 Nation's high: 88 (Fort Myers and Naples, Fla.) Nation's low: 1 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy today with a 40 
percent chance of light 
snow showers. Highs 
from the lower to middle 
30s. Cloudy and colder 
tonight with a 50 per­
cent chance of light

FRONTS: 
snow showers. Lows 15• • to 20 . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
~

® © ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNat 
OF INTEREST 
The Grand Opening of the Coffeehouse at A Mass in French will be celebrated this Sunday at Grace Hall is tonight at 9 p.m. St. Paul & The Martyrs will 4:30 p.m. in the Log Chapel. provide live musical entertainment Saturday. 
WoRLD 
All 18 Western hostages in Lebanon should ~e Poland signed World Bank loan agreements freed, according to an Iranian newspaper close to Presi­for $360 million Thursday, delivered with the promise dent Hashemi Rafsanjani, because they have beco~e a that up to $2.5 billion will be available if Poland sticks to propaganda tool for Iran's enemies. Most of the captives its dramatic economic reform plan. World Bank President are believed held by kidnappers loyal to Iran. "Regardless Barber Conable also pledged that the total of $5 billion of the West's propaganda ploys, Moslem forces, out of Is­his agency plans to lend in Eastern Europe in the next lamic and humanitarian considerations, should wor~ to three years won't come at the expense of aid to impover­get the hostages free with n~ p~econditio_n,". the English­ished nations elsewhere which have traditionally bor­language Tehran Times sal~ m a~ ed1ton~l, parts ~f rowed from the international development bank. which were carried by Iran s official Islamic Republic 
The last statue of Josef Stalin in the Mongolian 
News Agency. 
capital was toppled Thursday to the cheers of pass.ersb~.
Leaders of the center-left Labor Party in 
illustrating the dictator's dramatic fall from grace m thisJerusalem on Thursday threatened to quit Israel's coali­long-time Soviet satellite. Shortly after midnight, the 51­
tion government unless the Cab~net adopts c_ompro~i~es foot granite statue was lifted from its pedestal onto thewithin two weeks aimed at startmg an Israeli-Palestiman back of a truck and carted away. Some people applauded peace dialogue. The 107-member Labor ~ureau.passed .a 
its removal; some even kicked it. It had stood in front ofresolution saying "there is a need for an Immediate deci­the national library in the city center since 1951. 
sion on issues that will ensure the continuation of the peace process and that a further delay will cause serious harm to Israel." 
NATIONAL 
More economic sanctions on South Africa are Of people who had eye surgery to correct their being opposed by the Bush administration because, nearsightedness, two-thirds were able to see without "When someone is starting to do the right thing, you glasses four years later, but doctors still can't predict the don't kick them," an official said Thursday. Herman Co-outcome of the costly operation, a study says. "Our study hen, the assistant secretary of state for African affairs, and others have demonstrated fairly well that there are predicted South Africa's white-ruled government might be some adverse outcomes, but they are relatively rare," said able to satisfy conditions that could lead to the removal John Carter, coordinator of the study, based at Emory of U.S. economic sanctions "in the next three months." University in Atlanta. The surgery, known as radial kera­
totomy, is painless and can be performed on an outpa­
Infant safety seats may be required for all air­tient basis. plane passengers under 2 years of age if a propos.al .by the airline industry is adopted by the Federal Aviatwn NASA delayed the launch of Atlantis from Administration. The proposal could require thousands of Cape Canaveral for a second day on Thursday to let the 
shuttle's commander recover from a sore throat and toparents each day to buy tickets for children who now fly await better weather. The secret military mission to put afree. Airlines would still have the option of offering free spy satellite in orbit is not expected to take off until Sat­rides or reduced fares. 
urday morning at the earliest. 
INDIANA 
MARKET UPDATE Closings for February 22, 1990

Marilyn Quayle, the wife of Vice President Dan Quayle, will speak March 22 at the annual Tribute to Women dinner sponsored by the area YWCA. The program honors contributions made 
Volume in shares 
by women in the professions, business and indus­
184.32 Million
try, and in the community in general. Kathy Platt, YWCA community coordinator, said the topic of the speech hasn't been determined. "One of her interests is in education," said Ms. Platt. "We 

NYSE Index 

also asked if she could possibly speak about the 180.28 .0. .79 achievement of women -after all, that's what 
S&P Composite n

the Tribute to Women is all about." 
325.70 v 1.97 Dow Jones Industrials 2574.77 {7 8.79 
Teen-agers convicted of purchasing or Precious Metals obtaining alcoholic beverages would lose their Gold \7 $2.60 to $415.70/ oz. driver's licenses for up to a year under legislation approved Thursday by the Indiana Senate. House 
Silver.{} 1.3ct to $5.273/ oz. Bill 1451, sponsored by Sen. Robert L. Meeks, R­
Source: AP
LaGrange, cleared the Senate on a 42-7 vote after some senators objected that it would tie the hands of juvenile court judges. 
ALMANAC 
On February ~3: 
e In 1836: The siege of the 
Alamo began in San Antonio, 
Texas. 
e In 1861: President-elect 
Lincoln arrived secretly in 
Washington to take office, an 
assassination plot having been 
foiled in Baltimore. 
e In 1942: A Japanese sub­marine fired on an oil refinery in Ellwood, Calif. 
e In 1945: During World War II, U.S. Marines on Iwo Jima raised the American flag atop Mount Suribachi in a scene captured on film by Asso­ciated Press photographer Joe Rosenthal. 
e In 1954: The first mass inoculation of children against polio with the Salk vaccine be­gan in Pittsburgh. 

Friday, February 23, 1990 
St. Joseph's residents say parking lot unsafe 
By PAUL PEARSON 
News Writer 
Campus Security needs to block off access to the St. Joseph's Hall parking lot from Douglas Road, four residents of the hall said Thursday. 
At least eight cars parked in that lot have been broken into or vandalized since Sunday, in­cluding the car of Norris Hard­ing, a graduate student living in St. Joseph's Hall. 
Currently, the parking lot has what Harding called "free ac­cess," from Douglas Road-no gates, no fences, and no posts at the entrance. "Security sends a car through there once or twice a night," he said. The lot also has two mercury lights which, according to Harding, "don't light it very well at all." 
Harding said that his car was broken into Sunday night and that between $2,000 and $3,000 worth of goods. includ­ing a fencing bag, various fenc­ing equipment, and a bag of golf clubs, were stolen. His car stereo was also damaged. 
Harding recommended that Campus Security install a gate, as well as more lighting, in the parking lot. "They should block off Douglas Road altogether and make the lot accessible only from the campus," he said. 
Bob Hersh was also the re­cent victim of automobile van­dalism. He said that someone shattered the windows on his car. causing about $200 in damage. 
Hersh said that last year, six or seven automobiles were bro­ken into in the St. Joseph's lot, and four or five car stereos were stolen. 
According to Hersh, last year's manager of St. Joseph's Hall tried to contact Father David Tyson, vice president for Student Affairs, to discuss this problem. "[He) didn't get too far with that." Hersh said. 
This year, according to Hersh, Father John Lahey, rec­tor of St. Joseph's Hall, tried to contact a member of the administration to talk about this matter. "No action" resulted from this, he said. 
Hersh recommended that Se­curity cut off access to the lot from Douglas Road. "There wouldn't be a problem with that.. ..The students who park there already have access from the campus side." 
Robin Collins, another St. Joseph's resident, said that the break-ins are becoming very common. '"Common' isn't even the word for it." 
Collins' automobile was van­dalized Tuesday night. How­ever, it only suffered "insignificant damage," he said. 
Collins says there has been "a lot of concern" since early last summer, when two cars parked in the lot were broken into and suffered major damage to the windows and dashboards. 
"They should install a gate there (at the Douglas Road en­trance), but there'd still be a problem. People could park outside the lot and walk in," Collins said. 
According to Collins, Security said that "they would 'step up security.' " However, "''ve seen an improvement in the amount of patrols, but that hasn't helped the situation," he said. 
Bill Harris, St. Joseph's Hall Manager, said that Security cannot be blamed for the rash of break-ins. "The problem is that it is too easily accessible from off the street...and, be­cause of its location, it is not very easily patrolable." 
Harris believes that Security is "doing a good job." However, he said that "there doesn't seem to be one party responsi­ble for it .... They beef up secu­rity, but that doesn't seem to he helping." 


Poor security in the St. Joseph Hall parking lot is causing some residents to demand that access to the lot be blocked off. At least eight cars in the lot have been broken into or vandalized since Sunday. 
Reagan testimony hurts Poindexter 
WASHINGTON (AP) aides were not helping the they can persuade Poindexter's Ronald Reagan's videotaped Nicaraguan rebels in violation jury of that, Reagan's state­deposition gave Iran-Contra of a congressional ban. ments about what he did or prosecutors new ammunition The former president, who didn't authorize could be a for the trial of John Poindexter winked and nodded at Poindex­problem for his former aide. even though the former presi-ter when he took the witness dent tried hard to help his stand, said he was "in total Prosecutor Dan Webb said to former national security ad-agreement" with the letter and Reagan concerning the truth­viser. hadn't authorized anything but fulness of the letter, "You do 
Reagan endorsed the truth-the truth. understand that is a matter fulness of a letter Poindexter But Iran-Contra prosecutors that ultimately the jury will wrote to Congress assuring charge the letter ~as a false have an opportunity to deter­lawmakers that White House statement to Congress. And if mine in this case, don't you?" 
Bowen speaks on health in U.S. 
By DAVID CERTO Sexually transmitted dis-wide mailing on AIDS, in which News Writer eases, drug abuse and violence everyone received the latest in­are the nation's most pressing formation on the disease, are a Otis Bowen, M.D. led a dis­health problems, said Bowen, a step in the right direction, said cussion entitled "Health: Our two term governor of Indiana Bowen. He also proposed a Most Precious Resource" and Secretary of Health and plan for institutes of higher Thursday evening at the Hes­Human Services under Presi-learning to set aside one .per­burgh Library Auditorium. dent Reagan. cent of their gross revenues to 
According to Bowen, the best further research. 

way to fight these ailments is As the brainchild of the through education. "It's the catastrophic health care plan, obligation of the government to Bowen addressed national provide correct information to health policies. In his opinion, people so they can make in-"The catastrophic health care formed personal decisions," plan should have been fixed and Bowen said. He also stated that cleaned up rather than re­the decline in medical research pealed." Bowen also said that and development funding also there probably will eventually poses a major threat to the be an American system of so-public health. cialized medicine, similar to the 
Efforts such as the nation-one in Canada. 
WEEKEND DISCERNMENT EXPERIENCE 
Friday, March 2 
7:00pm Saturday, March 3 9:00pm 
Moreau Seminary adjacent to Notre Dame campus 
For those studnets who wish to come together to learn more about discerning an interest in religious life and priesthood. 
Contact: Fr.John Conley, CSC Holy Cross Fathers & Brothers Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
page 4 The Observer 
Panel discusses Poland's future 
By PAT HEALY News Writer 
A four-member panel ana­lyzed the recent dramatic events in Poland and offered in­sights on possible future devel­opments in that nation in a dis­cussion Thursday entitled "Solidarity and the Future of Poland: Mter the Euphoria." 
The panel consisted of Prof. Andrzej Walicki, O'Neill Chair­man of the History Depart­ment, Marek Szopski, a gradu­ate student, Prof. Jacek Fur­dyna of the Physics Depart­ment, and Prof. Donald Critchlow of the History De­partment. 
The Soviet Union's actions towards Poland during World War Two were highlighted by Critchlow. He noted that the Soviets failed to support the Polish uprising in Warsaw against the Nazis and also re­fused to allow an American airlift of food to the region. Critchlow said the Russians only moved into Poland after the Germans had begun to re­treat. 
Critchlow called the recent events in Poland "the first suc­cessful working-class uprising in Europe since the Russian Revolution." He said the devel­opments in Poland were "a rev­olution from below," and not a revolution from above directed by Gorbachev and the Soviet leadership. Critchlow stated that the Soviet leadership had to "acquiesce" to the events in Poland. 
Prof. Walicki focused his dis­cussion on the present eco-
The World's Longest-Running Erotic Stage Musical Comedy 
"THE CHILDREN OF THE ORIGINAL AUDIENCES ARE NON COMING 10 SEE "OH! CALCUTIA!' AND THEIR CHILDREN DOUBTLESS WILL 100" 
TIME. 1986 

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1990 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM $20.50-$15.50 RESERVED VISA/MC: 284-9190 
Direct from New York ­The Farewell Tour. 


()1,.~/ 

nomic outlook of Poland. He said that the use of "euphoria" in the discussion's title was "not adequate" because the Polish people are realizing the serious challenges of rebuilding their economy. He said that the economy "must be dismantled and rebuilt.~ 
Walicki said that the eco­nomic situation in Poland is very bad, noting that real in­come has fallen forty percent under the new governments di­rection. However, he called the government's economic strat­egy "bold" and said that the Polish people are heavily sup­portive of the government, giv­ing them an 85% approval rat­ing. 
Despite his dismissal of the possibility of Poland returning to a communist system, Walicki said he could envision the peo­ple supporting a dictatorship wishing to implement a com­mand economy. He said one problem with the economic re­forms is that there is no middle class in Poland, and the people "feel disenfranchised" by the capitalistic economic reforms. 
Szopski discussed Solidarity's role in Poland over the last ten years. He said Solidarity should not be thought of as a labor union, but movement." He said many members of Solidarity were not concerned with the trade union aspects of the organization, but 
as  an  instrument  for  
"fundamental  change  in the  
system."  

Furdyna discussed the impli­cations and importance of the events in Poland in relation to the U.S. and other Western na­tions. He said that the U.S. could not afford to let Poland fail in its efforts not only for political and humanitarian rea­sons, but also because of the possibility of economic benefits for this country. 
Furdyna said he was "worried" that "we lack the statesmanship" in the U.S. as compared to the efforts of Eastern European leaders like Poland's Lech Walesa and Czechoslovakia's Vaclav Havel. He stated that he felt there is "nostalgia for the Cold War" in Washington, D.C., and that they "would rather see the boat not being rocked." 
Calling democratic success in the Soviet Union "the big prize," Furdyna said that if democracy in Poland fails, the chances of perestroika working 


AP pnoto
Peace restored 

An elderly Tadzhik crosses a street under guard by Soviet troops in Dushanbe. Soldiers restored order in Tadzhikistan after more than a week of rioting and violence in which 22 people died. 

Youtllike your roommates 
awhole lot better iftheydidn't 
show up onyour phone bill. 
john called Chicago. Andy called L.A. Or was that Pete? 
Don't sweat it. Sorting out roommates is easywhen you get AT&ICallManagerSen ice. Because with it, you can all get your long distance charges listed separately, even though you share the same phone number. And it msts you nothing. 
To find out more about the free A1&ICallManagerService, diall 800 222-0300, ext. 600. It11 make both your bills and youF roommates much easier to liVe with. 

ATs.T 
© 1990AT&T 
The right choice. 
--· ~~---~-----~-----­
Friday, February 23, 1990 page 5
The Observer 

E. German minister calls for defense cuts if Germanies unite 

EAST BERLIN (AP) -The two Germanys should reduce their combined military by two­thirds when they unite, and some U.S. and Soviet soldiers should remain during the unifi­cation process, the East Ger­man defense minister said Thursday. 
Adm. Theodor Hoffmann said the armed forces should be purely defensive and both states should remain in their respective alliances until they are reunited under a new Euro­pean security system. 
West Germany belongs to NATO and East Germany is in the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact. About 380,000 Soviet soldiers are stationed in East Germany and NATO has more than 300,000 in West Germany, in­cluding about 250,000 Ameri­cans. 
Hoffmann said a joint Ger­
man military should be reduced 
to about 300,000 men initially, 
and later to 150,000-200,000. 
All three services -army, 
navy and air force -should be 
i'etained because all are essen­
tial to defense. he told a news 
confPrence. 
G1m. Hans Deim. East Ger­
many's delegate to Vienna talks 
on reduction of conventional forces, told the reporters ·any­thing over 300,000 men "would cause security concerns of our neighbors, especially France and Poland." 
West Germany has 490,000 military personnel and East Germany says its armed forces have shrunk from 170,000 men to 100,000 in recent months. 
Until a new European system supplants NATO and the War­saw Pact, Hoffman said, U.S. and Soviet soldiers should re­main on German territory "even if this becomes symbolic at a certain time." 
The United States and Soviet 
Union have agreed to reduce 
their troop strength in central 
Europe to 195,000 each. Most 
of the reductions will be made 
in Germany. 
Keeping some U.S. and Soviet troops until unification under a new security system would pro­vide stability in Europe, Hoff­man said, and described fears of a hasty union as justified. 
"Although unification is un­stoppable, it is going faster than the process of uniting all of Europe" and Europeans have "legitimate security con­cerns" about it, the defense minister said. 
"Our neighbors have had bit­

ter experiences with a united government is formed, Hoffman Germany," he added, recalling said. the two world wars of this cen­The victorious World War II tury. Allies -the United States, So­
Talks with the West German viet Union, Britain and France military on merging forces -have agreed on a two-stage could begin soon after East plan for reunification. Germany's first free elections After talks between the Ger­are held March 18 and a new manys on merging_their politi-

APphoiO West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl welcomes 250 carnival performers at Bonn Chancellery for a car­nival reception. The traditional street carnival opens tomorrow. 
Kuwaiti tanker explodes in the Persian Gulf; two killed 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) -A U.S.-flag Kuwaiti tanker loaded with naphtha and diesel fuel exploded Thursday in the Per­sian Gulf and two American crewmen were believed killed. 
The other 23 seamen, all Americans but one, abandoned the burning ship and were res­cued by a U.S. Navy frigate. 
U.S. sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said remains had been found in the water but it was not clear whether they were of one or two people. A U.S. military spokesman said he could not confirm the rt. 
Other American military sources said the two men miss­ing, and evidently killed, were the captain and first mate of the 81,283-ton Surf City but further identification would have to come from the owners, the Kuwait Oil Tanker Co. No one at the company was avail­able for comment Thursday night. 
Capt. Ron Wildermuth, chief spokesman for U.S. Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla., said there were no reports of mines from the Iran-Iraq war in the area and "initial indicate the ex-

Being aMarine Corps Officer can open the door lo opportuniue; • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn you may have lhougtu were heynnd your re:och. 11 helped Marine more than $2100 Officer Charle; Bolden become aNASA a.'lrOnaul. And ifyou're • Free civilia.n Dying lessons ~illing 10 make d1e commilmcnl, il could help ~JU also. You can •Aslartingsalaryofmorethan $20,000 
get started while you're in cnUrgc with our Platoon leaders lnunedialely upon gradu:llion you could become aMarine aa.~' PfU!:r.ll11. You could lake 
Officer. ll's your choice. ad>-an~e of ge!Ung; 
Maybe you're the kind of £


(/Jii

• 
$100 amonth while in school man we're looking for. 

• 
Freshmen and Sophomores !rain during two si.x-wcek summer ses. sions e:och paying more than $1200 


Hr~ /ooAingirllkwgoodmen.
mwant~ou 
togoas.tar 


asyou can. 
IRAN 

plosion was internal." AP 
The Surf City exploded 20 miles off the United Arab Emi­rates, said U.S. officials and shipping sources in the gulf. 
"It was a huge explosion, the ship just blew up, sa10 vvayne Cohen, 27, of Boston, who was standing watch on the bridge. 
He and crewman Earl Wash­ington, from Louisiana, were cut by flying glass when the pi­lot house windows shattered, Cohen said. 
"There was some panic," he said in a telephone interview. "We made our way to the lifeboat." 
Both were among survivors picked up by the missile frigate USS Simpson, and were taken to a hospital in Dubai. 
Cohen, a member of the Surf City crew since September, said 
(Jane Special) Student Haircuts $8.00 ByJaneOnly I'm only 5 min. from campus 





The Castle 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Convenient Parking 
Z7Z·8471 


cal, economic and legal sys­tems, the four powers are to join them for discussions of the international ramifications. 
Some Europeans worry about the formula, called "two plus four" and Poland wants a peace treaty guaranteeing its borders. 
he looked back as the lifeboat reached the Simpson and saw "nothing but fire and smoke." 
Late in the day, the tanker was reported still burning and taking on water. Wildermuth said U.S. warships and other craft in the area were "standing off' in case of an­other explosion in the highly volatile cargo. 
The Surf City was among 11 Kuwaiti tankers given U.S. flags in 1987 so the Navy could protect them from Iran, which had made Kuwait's merchant fleet a target because it sup­ported Iraq in the war. 
In 1987-88, the Surf City made dozens of trips unscathed under U.S. escort. No armed attacks or minings have been reported in the gulf since Iran and Iraq agreed to a cease-fire in August 1988. 
An Iranian Silkworm missile badly damaged a sister tanker, the Sea Isle City, at Kuwait's main loading terminal Oct. 19, 1987. Two months earlier, the reflagged supertanker Bridgeton struck an Iranian mine on the Navy's first convoy up the gulf. 
Direct escort ended five months after the truce, but U.S. Navy ships still monitor the movements of U.S.-flag tankers. 
If you think you have what H takes, call 

1-800-728-9228 
to learn more about the Marine Corps Officer programs. 


finance committee of Notre 
Scott Malpass has been Dame's Board of Trustees in namPd investment officer at the developing and implementing University of Notre Dame and investment policies for the Uni­has been acting in that capacity versity's growing endowment, since May 1989. which had a market value of 
The holder of baccalaureate $542 million at the end of fiscal and M.B.A. degrees from Notre year 1989. Dame, Malpass came to the in­vestment office in August 1988 Thomas Mason, vice presi­from the Wall Street firm of dent for Business Affairs, said Irving Trust, where he managed the promotion of Malpass in­structured equity investments sures "a new level of profes­and was a consultant for a sionalism and creativity in the varinty of the firm's institu­management of the University's tiomtl cliPnts. lie will work financial resources." 
-

There are o~er
450 in cash prizes to the winners of the March 29 /L_,_/_ ~ _, TALENT SHOW ~----,, 

'/_~rAU14S 0 ~-, :_ 
NIGHTCLUB I \ \ To audition for the show please \ '-..../ apply at the Student Activities \ / office by FEBRUARY 28. .....____/ 
Chinese-Americ1n Restaurant &

l.i.-~'t{P, cR£rl'f 

Cocktail Lounse Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisme



'YALL. 
Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thurs 11.30 a.m. 10 10 p.m. Fri.· Sat. 11:30 a.m. 1o 11p.m ~----..1 Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. 10 10 p.m. ixie WayS., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 272-7 
The Observer 

Alumnus Malpass named 
The ·­
investment officer for NO 


Observer

Special to the Observer: closely with the investment and 
. AP photo Nelson Mandela, le~. laughs wtth vet~rans ~f the ~NC's military wing "Umkhonto Wa Sizwa." The recently released leader cont111ued to hold meettngs wtth vanous delegations at his home in Sowato. 
Friday, February 23, 1990 

De Klerk accepts ANC proposal for meeting 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -President F.W. de Klerk on Thursday accepted a proposal by the African Na­tional Congress to send a dele­gation for the first formal talks between the white government and its foremost adversary. 
The ANC's commitment to di­alogue "is a positive step," re­flecting a desire to "search for solutions through peaceful means," said de Klerk, who lifted a 30-year ban on the guerrilla movement three weeks ago. 
De Klerk also made his first public statement on a contro­versy involving Defense Minister Magnus Malan, who has been linked in press reports to a secret military unit that al­legedly assassinated anti­apartheid activists. 
The president, interviewed by the state-run TV network. said the allegations would be thor­oughly investigated by a judicial commission, criticized the press for conducting a "trial by me­dia," and praised the role of the security forces in saving South Africa from "anarchy and chaos." 
Oppositton political leaders demanded Malan's resignation and urged de Klerk to ensure that no cover-up takes place. 
Malan, in statements this week, denied having ordered assassinations, but did not rule out the possibility the unit may have committed such acts. He pledged the military would not interfere with any investiga­tions. 
The Star newspaper of Jo­hannesburg quoted sources as saying Malan had been aware of the unit at least since 1987. 
Police investigators have said in court papers that members of the unit, called the Civil Co­operation Bureau, are sus­pected of involvement in the as­sassinations last year of David Webster, a Johannesburg hu­man rights activist, and Anton Lubowksi, a civil rights lawyer and pro-independence activist in Namibia. 


2% of Americans Ballroom Dance. 
5% of Americans Golf. 
6% of Americans Bowl. 
6% of Americans Hunt. 
7% of Americans Jog. 

10% of Americans are Gay. 


Who's Abnormal? 
If you're gay, you're bound to hear a good number of people say that you're "abnormal." "Homosexuality is wrong be­cause it's abnormal." 
Why? 
Being gay isn't "against the laws of nature." Biologists have found homosexual behavior in all higher strata of the animal kingdom. 
Being gay isn't some aberration that occurs from a demented childhood or a sleazy seduction and recrui"tment or a low self­image or never scoring with the opposite sex. It's just one of na­ture's variations on a theme, like left-handedness. 
America's 25,000,000 gay citi­zens (and Notre Dame's 1000) don't ask for too much.... Just for people to realize that, first of all, we have a right to exist (Can you believe some people don't even admit that?) And that we are the same people as every­one else and deserve to be treat­ed as such. Accepted, under­stood, respected. Not harrassed, persecuted, and dis­criminated against. And that we're not "abnormaL" 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/St. Mary's College Post Office Box 19 4 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
or call James (283-4256) or Mike (283-2045) 
This ad sponsored by two gay Notre Dame alumni. 
--~-----------­

Friday, February 23, 1990 
Baker: fair elections not enough for Sandinistas 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­tary of State James Baker said Thursday that even if interna­tional observers find the Nicaraguan government wins Sunday's elections fair and square. the Sandinistas will have to show "a substantial pe­riod of good behavior" before there can be normal relations with the United States. 
lie also said the Bush admin­istration reserves the right to decide on its own if the election is fair. 
Baker. appearing before the House Foreign Affairs Commit­tee. said the administration would insist on "a substantial period of good behavior," in­cluding an end to support for leftist insurgents in neighboring El Salvador and reconciliation with domestic political op­porHmts -before ending eco­nomic sanctions and restoring full diplomatic relations. 
The secretary accused the government of President Daniel Ortega of intimidating oppo­nents and poll watchers besides denying visas to congressional observers. 
The leading opposition group -the United National Opposi­tion, headed by Violeta Chamorro-has received U.S. aid in its bid to govern the country. 
Baker said that the Unites States is "prepared to recog­nize a government that wins a free election." But he then set conditions that must be met for the restoration of normal rela­tions and asserted U.S. author­ity to judge the elections. 
"Before we talk about nor­malizing relations (if Ortega is re-elected), ... we must see a sustained period of good behavior. 
"The government of the United States must be satisfied that there will continue to be open political space in Nicaragua. Then we can con­sider beginning to look at how we might normalize" relations, including lifting the trade sanctions. 
Answering a question from Rep. Gerry Studds, 0-Mass., Baker said, "It seems to me that if you believe in democracy you believe in respecting the re­sults of a free and fair elec­tion." 
But he added, "The United States must reserve the right to make the judgment (as to) whether the election is free and fair." 
Observer groups, including one led by former President Carter and another sponsored by the United Nations, will assess the election and "arrive at reasoned judgments" about its fairness, the secretary said. "But, in light of experience, the United States needs to make its own judgment." 
The Nicaraguan government, in denying visas to congres­sional observers appointed by President Bush, argued that the observers could not be objective because the United States is providing money to the Chamorro campaign. 
While the United States has never broken relations and maintains an embassy in Managua, it is staffed by only a handful of American diplomats. 


APphoto 

Nicaraguan soldiers disabled in fighting with the Contras wheel themselves through Managua in a show of 
support for Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega. 
The last U.S. ambassador was expelled in July 1988. 
The Reagan administration provided military aid to the Contra rebels until Congress suspended it in February 1988. The Bush administration is us­ing economic and diplomatic pressures against the Sandin­islas, while holding to a trade embargo imposed in 1985. 
In an hour of testimony be­fore the House committee, Baker also: 
• 
Credited the Chinese gov­ernment with freeing some po­litical prisoners, toning down its anti-U.S. rhetoric and showing interest in receiving Peace Corps volunteers. 

• 
Said the administration would consider holding negoti­ations to withdraw short-range nuclear weapons from Western 


Europe if NATO and the War­saw Pact conclude a treaty to reduce troops and conventional arms. 
The treaty, now in negotia­tions in Vienna, would leave up to 225,000 American soldiers in Western Europe and 195,000 Soviet troops on foreign soil. 
• Showed impatience with a lack of progress in starting ne­gotiations between Israel and Palestinian Arabs. 


-----· ---­
page 8 The Observer Friday, February 23, 1990 
Reagan 
continued from page 1 
impression" that National Se­curity Council aide Oliver North's assistance to the Con­tras was limited to "communicating back and forth . . . on the need for the support of the Contras." 
"I guess that I had never ... had any inkling that we were guiding their strategy in any way," Reagan testified under questioning by Webb. 
Asked what he thought North was doing, Reagan said that "you have to have people that can be available to make con­tact with the leaders of the Contras .. . sometimes closer than just writing a letter." 
ABA 
continued from page 1 
"that interferes with the confi­dential relationship between a pregnant woman and a physi­cian, or with the decision to terminate the pregnancy." 
Supporters of the resolution were reacting to the Supreme Court's Webster decision in 1989 affirming Missouri efforts to restrict access to abortion. 
"It's pretty unique for the ABA to come out with a posi­tion contrary to a recent Supreme Court decision," Link said. 
Link said the faculty stand should not be interpreted as opposition to women's rights. "Like any other constitutional question, it's not a matter of whether rights exist, but how do you balance competing rights," he said. 
About 80 percent of the law faculty are members of the Catholic church, said Link. But the faculty vote Monday repre­sented a professional, not a re­ligious, objection, he said. 
"(The ABA) ought to take po­sitions in things unifying to the ABA, rather than divisive, be­cause it interferes with the rights of some minority mem­bers," said Link. "I don't think it's inappropriate at all for de­bate to go on in an organiza­tion, but it's too early to cut that debate off." 
"The ABA should not have taken up this issue," said Fernand Dutile, associate dean of the Law School. Dutile said that there is another issue at stake. He said he believes it is a violation of academic freedom to ask that the faculty vote and take a stand as a group on an issue such as this. 
lie said that Notre Dame's action is wrong for the same n;asons that the ABA's action is wrong, because in both cases a group speaks for all of its members on a controversial is­sue. 
Link defended the Law School's action saying that the majority of the faculty voted that "this is the best tactic." 
Link said some members of the law faculty opposed the 
~·······················
:Express Pres.s:,. : 
: CF I'\OANA NCX::R='CAATEO •
. .
.,
• IQ&J.WTY PAIIVTINO I : 
: 325 OIXIEWAY II«:RTH • SOJTH 8ENO • • (219) 277-3355 • 
• 215 S. 11TH SffiEET • M1.ES :
:.......,~w~......• 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 



MEl&-"

~~MEN 
/ ·. 
I 
531 N. Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

"It -was my understanding be­cause his name would crop up in memos and so forth that that's what he was doing," the former president added. 
Poindexter, who faces trial 
March 5, is charged with con­
spiracy, two counts of 
obstructing Congress and two 
counts of making false 
statements. 

It was Poindexter's lawyers who had won a court order to take Reagan's testimony, hop­ing to show Reagan had ap­proved of the activities that led to his former adviser's indict­ment. 
However, Iran-Contra prose­cutors used cross-examination of Reagan to introduce evidence that Poindexter lied to Reagan about the secret aid operation after a C-123 cargo plane was shot down over Nicaragua dur­ing a supply flight on Oct. 5, 1986. 
In written interrogatories to the Iran-Contra grand jury earlier, Reagan said Poindexter first told him that the sole sur­vivor of the crash, Eugene Hasenfus was not connected with the U.S. government. 
Hasenfus, who was tried and convicted of terrorism by Nicaragua's Sandinista gov­ernment and later released, was involved in North's secret resupply effort, according to investigators. 
During his videotape~ testi­mony, Reagan said he couldn't recall which adviser told him about the crash and said he did not know if Hasenfus was con­nected with North's secret op­eration. 
Reagan said Thursday that "no one has proven to me" that profits from secret arms sales 
to Iran were diverted to the rebels fighting the leftist San­dinista government in Nicaragua. 
But later in his testimony 
Reagan was confronted with 
details of the diversion from 
the February 1987 Tower 
Commission report. 

"This is the first time that I have ever seen a reference that actually specified there was a diversion," Reagan said of the much-publicized report. 
"Is this the first time . . . that 
you came to realize in fact that 
a diversion had actually oc­
curred?" asked Webb. 

"Yes," replied Reagan. 
Webb asked whether Reagan 
expected Poindexter to report 
such a diversion to his boss. 
"Yes," replied Reagan. "Unless maybe he thought he was protecting me from some­thing." 
At that point Reagan seemed to lose his train of thought, saying, "But, no, I don't under­stand. This is very confusing to me about this." 
Poindexter told Congress in 1987 that he purposely didn't tell the president about the di­version in order to provide him with "deniability." 
Reagan grew testy with Webb, who told U.S. District Court Judge Harold Greene that the former president had not answered his question. Reagan retorted that he was trying to be responsive. 

resolution, arguing the profes­sors should act as individuals. Link did not disclose totals of the vote taken Monday. 
"The ABA action is a total disgrace," said Charles Rice, professor of Law. He said he was supportive of the decision to protest the ABA's opposition to restrictions on abortion 
right~ 

Ttie ABA's action "can only be described ... as an endorsement of murder." He said that the ABA has no right to take such a stance on abortion and proceed to claim the right to accredit law schools. 
The ABA has received about 80 resignations from among 365,000 members nationwide since approving the abortion policy, said spokeswoman Nancy Slonim. The association has taken stands on controver­sial, unresolved issues, includ­ing opposition to discrimina­tion against homosexuals and opposition to the death penalty for juveniles and the mentally disturbed, she said. 
The ABA has also called for federal legislation that would effectively overturn five recent Supreme Court decisions which the association believes dam­aged civil rights of minorities, she said. "We do take a Jot of social positions." 
Link said that the abortion issue is different from other is­sues. "In those situations (mentioned by Slonim) there is a pretty good consensus," said Link. He said at this point the ABA cannot accurately reflect the views of all its members on the "highly political and moral" issue of abortion. 
A member of the ABA for 28 years, Link said he would work to repeal the resolution at the annual convention scheduled for August in Chicago. 
"There is a good chance the stance will be rescinded," said Link. He said he spoke to the Secretary-elect of the ABA on Thursday who said he filed a motion to have the stance re­considered, according to Link. 
In his motion, the Secretary­elect called for the issue to be brought up at the House of Delegates and at the General Assembly, which is open to all members. 
Link said he may resign his personal membership if the ABA resolution is allowed to stand. 
Link said that a good number 






MODEL 
SEARCH 
is coming to 
NOTRE DAME 
MARCH 2-3 TO SHOOT N.D. STUDENTS 
TO APPEAR IN OUR 1991 NATIONAL CALENDAR. IF YOU'VE BEEN TOLD YOU'RE GOOD WOKING. SEXY. OR OUGI-IT TO TRY MODEilNG. TIUS IS A PERFECT OPPORrUNITY TO TEST YOUR APTITIJDE. TO ARRANGE A FREE TEST SHOOTING. SEND YOUR Nfu\1E. ADDRESS, PHONE. AND PHOTOS (2-3. ANY QUALITY) TO 
~~~r/~, 
87 DRUKIIOND STREET. CINCINNATI. OB 45218 OR CALL (813) 825-3788 J'OR IIOIUt llU'OIUIATION co-sPONSORED BY: ~e.«e.,u.u ~A~ 
Be A Part of America's Hottest Calendar! 
of students are supportivfl of the faculty's decision. On Wed. Feb. 28 at noon in the Law 
School Lounge there will be a meeting for law students to discuss this issue, said Link. 
Notre Dame enrolls 510 stu­dents in its 121-year-old Jaw school, the nation's oldest Catholic Jaw school. 
The Associated Press contributed to this story. 






IN EASTERN EUROPE 


F.E.E.D. M.E. 
Fabulous Eastern European Dmner: Meal and E'ntertairunent -Dinner and Polka Dance! 
Saturday, February 24, 1990 
6:30pm 

North Dining Hall, North Wing • Reservations Required: Call 239 -7668 • 
TBA 
Panel Discussion/Follow Up: 
"What do the issues in Eastern Europe mean to students as members of the ND community, 
and as citizens of a nation?" 
Observer, Scholastic, Common Sense. Dialogue reporters who covered the events (Yes, undergradsl} 

~-------------------------------­

Friday, February 23, 1990 
Teacher fired, said the Holocaust a myth
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A nal record and inaccuracies in part-time college history in-his employment application, structor fired for teaching that Barlow said. the Holocaust was a myth said Hiner pleaded guilty to theft he would not teach the infor-in 1988 for stealing World War mation again. II items from the Indiana 
Donald Hiner, 50, was dis-World War Memorial, including missed Wednesday from his job German headgear, buckles, at Indiana University-Purdue medals and insignias. He was University at Indianapolis. His placed on probation for a year. firing is effective March 1. Hiner's comments in class 
"What I did was attempt to came to light after a student teach another school of taped a lecture. thought concerning World War Among other things Hiner I and World War II." Hiner said in class was that there is said. "I made a mistake that I no proof concentration camp should not have." victims were gassed; that pea-
Dean John Barlow of the pie instead died of typhus and School of Liberal Arts at IUPUI starvation, for which Germans said Hiner declined to meet can accept some responsibility; with him Wednesday. Instead, that photographs and films of Barlow read to Hiner on the death camps and mass graves telephone a letter outlining the were doctored to make things reasons for the dismissal. look worse than they were; and 
"lie was teaching material that the worst thing Adolf that was not appropriate to the class. He was offering it as an Hitler did was to ensure the alternative view of history and creation of Israel. he did it at length," Barlow "I did not say that I adhered said Thursday. to the revisionists, just that 
"One of the principals of aca­they existed," he said. "I do not demic freedom is that you do consider myself a revisionist." not teach matters that are ir­Historians generally agree an relevant to the subject matter estimated 6 million Jews were or inappropriate and he has vi­killed under Hitler's regime in olated that." an act of genocide known as 
The letter cited Hiner's r.rimi-the Holocaust. 

page 9 


Prof. speaks on tree shortage 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI News Writer 
A University of Florida pro­fessor spoke at Notre Dame about an innovative project to solve the tree shortage crisis in Haiti. 
Professor Gerald Murray said that the project combined the efforts of anthropologists. missionaries, and clergy of the Catholic church in Haiti. He added that there are plans to try the project in other third world nations. 
"We are headed toward a treeless planet," said Murray as he explained why he manages the project. Since the majority of the forests in Haiti and the rest of the world also have been significantly damaged, conser­vation is no longer the only is­sue. We must work for recon­struction of trees, he said. 
The effort, funded by the United States government through USAID, which handles and appropriates all non-mili­tary foreign aid, began in a small village of 1 ,200 people the project began Murray saw it as "the kiss of death for the environment." Efforts were made to convince the peasants to stop the cutting of the trees, yet it was necessary to find a way to fulfill their economic needs. 
Currently the growth of trees actually benefits the existing crops because of their nitrogen­fixing characteristics. With a further eight million dollar grant from the U.S. gov­ernment, 20 million trees have been planted and the major 
GOTO 

MEDICA~ SQIOOL 

PA\D 
tU11lOM\ 

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and 
fees paid in full-plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school. 
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 

We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the 
Army, Navy or Air Force. 

If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as 
a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 

After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service 
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits 
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical 
technology. 

If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice­
and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today.
.,

1 YES1Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
• can help cut my medical school expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below. I understand I am under no obligation. Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9016 
Check up to three: D Army D Navy D Air Force (18-35 veara ol aoel (21-36 yea,. ol agel (18·34 years or agel 
I I 
Please print all Information clearly and completely_ 

Name---,F,=rst----------.,M,::;;dd;:;-le~,:;:-:: -------;-;;,,;;-,___D Male D Female
,.,
1 11 
1

I I 
Address: ___________________________ Apt. #~~~::::::;==;:::=:; 
City,______________ State ___________ Zipl I I I I I 
Phone ITIJ ITIJ Ll_L._..L_.l._ll Soc. Sec. No. 0::::::0 [I] I I I I I
I I
Area Code Number 

College' ---------------------Birth Date [I] [I] [I] 
·-Mo ~ Year 
Fi'eld of Study______________________ Graduation Date LU [I] 
Mo Year
I IThe mformat1on you voluntanly provide will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete it is, the better we can respond ro your request /Aurhoflfy: 10 USC 503).
.. ______ _
.. 

and grew to affect 130,000 crop and economic base of the 
families, said Murray. country, charcoal, is essentially The wood of Haiti continues being grown, he said. 
to be used almost totally in the The lecture was sponsored by 
charcoal industry, and before the Anthropology department.
/ + American RedCross 
Join our list of satisfied N.D. customers: Office of Student Activities, AnTostal, various dorms, fonnals & dances, S.UB., Adworks. Best Prices! Whatever your bash, let us help you celebrateJ T-shirts, stadium cups, hats, key chains, all the fun stuff PWS new Ideas. Call HURRAY! at 1·294-5631 for Springtime fun! 

I
I 
r 
r 
Viewpoint 
Friday, February 23, 1990
page 10 




P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor .. Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor ..... Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .. Enc Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .. Chnstine Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSI· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol· 1c1es of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther InStitutiOn The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the maJority of the follow1ng. Editor-In-Chief, Manag1ng Editor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor, V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes, letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors Column space is available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of vary1ng op1mons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 

LETTERS 

Service in housing projects teaches sharing
Dear Editor: graduate of NO) and James come a regular pro at giving the love between all the speak-I thmk I, along with the many 
Have you ever gone into a sit-spoke of how they enter the speeches at schools. I was im-ers. who were touched by the uation with a set of expecta-housing projects and befriend pressed by the sense of humor How easy it is to forget, or to speech, wish these young men tions, only to find that you were the residents. Their words are and depth of character in all ignore, the fact that those in of distinction t~e brightest of completely off base? Situations never judgmental, never these you~g men wh? had the ghettos are all part of the f~tures. By their selfless a~­such as these are often the ones preaching. They speak to the grown up m such a difficult human race wh1ch loves, twns, the Brothers and the1r which touch you the deepest, youth, visit those in the hospi-atmosphere. We learned about laughs, cries, fears, and friends have shown that it is and which permanently change tal, attend funerals, and give each other, and I felt like they dreams. How easy it is to draw only by coming together that the way you view the world. I love in so many ways. Countless were friends whose lives I truly lines of distinction b~t~een us we can mend all that has fallen had the opportunity for an eye-times the Brothers have cared about. and them. How easy 1t IS to let apart. opening experience, and I hope stepped between warring gang fear and ~rejudic~ prevent ~ou 
to share it with you. factions. Brother Bill has been At 8 p.m. they gave a talk and from makmg a fnend, .hold1.ng 
Beth Apone

On Jan. 31, two brothers shot at 28 times alone. The answered questions. We a hand. As Brother Bill said, 
Farley flail

from the St. Malacky Parish in young men said that the pres-learned of their day-to-day ex-"You cannot love what you 
Feh.12, 1990

Chicago came to speak along ence of the brothers brings istence and the way it feels to fear. h 
with five young men from the comfort to the people, as well lose a close friend or a brother Cabrini-Green Housing Projects. as a peaceful spirit that has to gang violence. As Brother Abortion perpetuates lack of respect
I was invited to eat with them calmed much of the violence. Bill said, "In these areas, death before they spoke, and I'll is something that happens to for human life by seeking a 'quick fix' 
admit that I felt a little appre-I spoke to Antonio who told the young. h All of them had Dear Editor: is the only possibility. By con­hensive. After all, our lives me of his job, his girlfriend, been shot once or several times. 
The Observer has served the trast, those who equally valueseemed so fundamentally dif-and the baby they are expect-They spoke of the anger that Notre Dame community well in unborn and born human lifeferent. What could we possibly ing. We discussed how difficult comes when outsiders act fear­publishing Ms. Ann Pettifer's understand that there is nohave in common'? Would they it can be to suddenly have many ful, clutching their purses a lit­pro-abortion letter (Feb. 13), such thing as a quick fix. 
even be interested in meeting responsibilities at a young age. tie tighter and locking their car because it so clearly illustrates Abortion doesn't solve anyme? Would they be unfriendly? I spoke to Demetrius who doors when they walk by. We the contrast between abortion tragedy; it only compounds it.
At dinner. Brothers Bill (a works at a hospital and has be-also saw the brotherhood and 
advocates and life advocates. So life-advocates ehoose a V!~ry Part of the contrast is the long, arduous and eostly two­rhetoric. Ms. Pettifer prefers to lane road: seek legal protection 
TV pact is strictly a business maneuver 
characterize those who seek a for unborn human life. and 
Dear Editor: ceive. But the new contract will ficiency. "Hight to Life" amendment as seek viable solutions to tlu~ Why did Notre Dame break not considerably increase ND Although ND's decision is a ones who seek to "crirninalize problems that push women to for the CFA and sign a lucrative football's availability to the TV sound one, I find it strange that abortion." And she claims be­abortion. This is where genuine television contract with NBC'? It viewer. This year, ND football no one in the Administration wilderment by thn "fact" that "pastoral pragmatism" enters is not a matter of ethics. It saturated the airwaves with six wants to admit that it was done amendment advocates "are the the picture: do everything pos­comes down to a simple, oppor­games on network TV, while because "the money was right." same reactionary skinflints sible to get our people. our leg­tunistic business decision, the remainder (except for Athletic Director Dick who think money and social islatures, our courts and our driven by self-interest. Stanford) were carried by na­Rosenthal is blurting out non­services corrupt the poor and Constitution unanimously and Although, this is the first time a tional cable. The decision sense about the deal alleviating disadvantage people." unambiguously to proclaim university has made such a deal should actually help other tra­ticket availability problems. Basically, she fails to stay that unborn human life has the with a network, it should not ditional football powers, who Others claim that the deal was within a believable distance of same value as aln~ady-horn 
come as a shock to people. may choose to arrange a simi­made to give students more fi­the truth. human life. 
Other organizations with a fi­lar network deal in the future. nancial aid, but as an ND se­But moving from rhetoric to nancial interest in sports have The schools who lose out are nior, I've seen this before. substance, Ms. Pettifer seems similar contracts, such as the those who were part of the Somehow the money from foot­to have no tolerance of abso­Cubs' exclusive agreement with CFA. but whose teams weren't ball TV contracts and major lute values, particularly that of WGN. shown on television. As a CFA bowls just doesn't find its way unborn human life. Just like 
Hegardless of the fervor this member, NO was, in effect, us­to the students. More likely, it those who seek protection of decision has aroused, it really ing its popularity and revenue will remain in the school's cof­the unborn, she recognizes the won't change college football producing ability to provide fers or go toward enhancing desperate situation in which all significantly. Sports writer, welfare for schools like our intricate system of under­too many pregnant women find ground pipes and tunnels.
Scott Brutocao (The Observer, Northwestern who spend far themselves. But there the simi­Feb. 12) said that the TV deal less money on their football Patrick Kearns larity ends. Ms. Pettifer appar­threatens parity because of the programs. The CFA's revenue­Stanford Hall ently seeks a "quick fixh, and increased_ coverage NO will re-sharing program rewards inef-Feb. 13, 1990 under that constraint abortion 
Rev. Ronald .1. Wasowski. C.S.C Department of Earth Sciences Feb. 13. 1990 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU
DOONESBURY 


'Thought takes man out of servitude, into freedom.' 
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow 


Viewpoint
Friday, February 23, 1990 page 11 
Armchair general takes charge in 'just cause' 
David J. Scantling On Human Rights 
I guess I've always been somewhat of an armchair gen­eral, spending endless hours of my youth arranging olive drab plastic army men in columns and formations amongst my mother's philodendrons. The grand attacks, sweeping thrusts through the forward edge of the battle area, culmi­nating with an air-raid and M­80 firecracker destruction of the tank columns, kept me in a state of complete excitement and challenge. I loved it. It was a quantum leap from doing SRA assignments, pulling weeds or waiting for the aftertaste to hit after choking down a brus­sels sprout. 
Now that I'm away from home and paying my own taxes, my flower bed has grown from mom's unweeded furrows to the garden we call the Third World. The term "playing army" just doesn't cut it any more. I have to use big words now like Low-Intensity-Conflict. Let me share with you a view from my armchair. 
In the pre-dawn hours of Dee. 20, 1989 we invaded Panama. I watched the CNN reports that day. They were quite a pattern interrupt from my frantic Christmas shopping. That afternoon I found myself wan­dering about aimlessly in a Toys-R-Us store-with a G.l. Joe stealth fighter tucked se­curely under my arm-musing over the days' CNN video im­ages. The best way to describe my thoughts is through the eyes of the child that I was, that great general, the fearless commander, General Kurtz ... 
"Are my briefing slides ready?," I asked the young 
green beret lieutenant. "Yes, General Kurtz!" barked the shavetail. 
"OK, call it." It's time to brief the big dogs on Operation Just Cause. 
"Room, Tench... Hut!" The lieutenant makes good use of his command voice. Over a hundred suits of green, blue and black snap to attention as I walk to the podium. Their ac­cess badges glisten under the spotlights. This isn't coffee and doughnuts at the Pentagon. This is the situation room at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina, a veritable U.S. special opera­tions mecca. Here goes ... 
"As you were, gentlemen. First slide. Not more than twelve hours ago, at 0100 Panama local time, we success­fully completed the largest night combat parachutes drop since D-day in World War II. The U.S. Military Airlift Com­mand employed 111 aircraft­including 22 Lockheed C-130s, 77 Lockheed C-141 s and 12 Lockheed C-5As-to complete the initial airlift and insert 4,000 of our boys where they needed to be. Next slide." 
"One of the first drop runs was here a Tocumenfforrijos International Airport east of Panama City. About 700 sol­diers from the 1st Ranger Bat­talion of the 75th Ranger Reg­iment from Fort Stewart, Ge­orgia and one company from the 3rd Ranger Battalion at Fort Benning, Georgia parachuted in to attempt cap­ture of General Manuel Nor­iega-who was relaxing at the officer's club-and to neutralize the Panama Defense Force's (PDF) 2nd Infantry Company and air force units stationed at the airport. The crafty devil eiuded the rangers, escaping in a car during the ensuing fire­fight." 
"Our Air Force boys in blue brought the planes in at less than 500 feet to avoid radar detection and decrease the risk of being shot down by surface­to-air missiles. Over 4000 men went out the door at this alti­tude or less this morning." And I know they weren't wearing reserve chutes. If the main doesn't deploy, you bounce. 
"About the same time several Lockheed F-177A Stealth Fighters skimmed the nap of the earth at over 500 mph to pickle off two 2000 lb bombs with time delayed fuses at the Rio Hato airport about 60 m1ies southwest of Panama City. In this aircraft's first combat operational test the or­dinance was deployed to stun and confuse the 6th and 7th Rifle Companies of the PDF's elite battalion 2000. The bomb­ing was followed by an air as­sault of 1000 Rangers from the 2nd Ranger Battalion of the 75th Ranger Regiment from Fort Lewis, Washington and the rest of the 3rd Ranger Bat­talion. Our airborne troops took their heaviest casualties here." I wonder if the desk jockeys in front of me under­stand the blast effect alone of a 2000 lb bomb would do to their face. "Next slide please." 
"The Navy's Sea-Air-Land (SEAL) Team 4 had a rough time of it at Paitilla airport downtown Panama City. Most of the team was wiped out by heavy resistance from the PDF. However, they were able to knock out Noriega's learjet 35A, which was waiting to wisk him away with an unrefueled range of 2,200 nautical miles. As of this afternoon we don't have the good General in cus­tody, but it won't be long." How he got away from the rangers­the "President's own"-the world may never know. Clausi­witz' theory of the fog of way holds true here, too. 
"Well, that's all I've got. I have time for just one question. Yes, Colonel Marlow." 
"Sir, I was just wondering if this operation was a manifesta­tion of George Kennan's 1948 
lq 
prediction that and I quote, "We have about 50% of a the world's wealth, but only 6.3% of its population ... In this situa­tion, we cannot fail to be the onject of envy and resentment. Our real task in the coming pe­riod is to devise a pattern of relationships which will permit us to maintain this position of disparity without positive detriment to out national secu­rity?" 
"Perhaps, colonel." I think you know the answer already. 
As this film in my mind came to an end I placed G.l. Joe and his air force buddies back on the shelf. As I turned and looked down the Toys-R-Us aisle, a waist high blond haired kid stood in front of me em­bracing a plastic M-16. As I matched his stare I pondered the horror of the heart of darkness swelling within us. 
Dave Scantling is a member of the Coalition on Human Rights, sponsors of the On Hu­man Rights column. 

Biased view of sex hinders free conscience 

God, neglects to acknowledge of these questions, given the By J. Michael Leger 
the existence of homosexual terms of its own discussions, it emotion. Even if the person is is no wonder the writer 
Campus Ministry has really primarily heterosexual, he or "forgets" he has raised the is­dropped the ball this time in its she will be doing violence by sue of homoeroticism. recent advertisements on sexu­merely repressing, rather than Even if it wished to explicitly ality. Ignoring all but its own integrating in an individual (if deplorably) make the state­interpretations of human sex­way, the homoerotic feelings ment that gay orientation is ual behavior, it has betrayed ills which are present. unspeakable and dirty, which own fear. and sold the integrity the first amendment certainly of this Catholic University. I suspect, however, that ad­allows it the right to do, Cam­When challenged by the pres­vising such integration is nei­pus Ministry would be bound by ence of that which it refuses to ther possible nor desirable to the Catholic tradition of justice understand, it publicly falls the men of Campus Ministry and freedom of conscience to back upon the last and most dismissed without even being ual scenarios and suggesting (who certainly ought to be then. present the official refu­destructive defense employed by discussed-an appalling sug­facile solutions for the aware that it is possible to have tation of its own position. The paternalism: Campus Ministry gestion for the treatment of "problems" it projects upon the and not act upon sexual emo­latter Catholic tradition calls has fallen back upon silence. controversy at a university. players in them, Campus Min­tions). Inclined to treat homo­for responsible individual deci­
It is bad enough that the only Such complex human phenom­istry (not at all surprisingly) erotic feelings as diseased, de­sion making, which is not pos­possible explanation Campus ena are not to be faced down forgets that it had raised an­spite seventeen years of official sible without all the data. Ministry can find for the active with the silence of fear. other issue. We can only pre­American Psychiatric Associa­sexuality of a young woman is sume that the advice offered to tion repudiation of the disease By choosing to run from the the explanation that she is de­In its first advertisement, this young man and to any model, these men consider the issue, Campus Ministry protects pendent or immature, or that Campus Ministry sets up four other young men who take such young man's sexual attraction itself from the logical conclu­she was abused. Such assump­scenarios to introduce sexual a "problem" to Campus Min­toward his friend as something sion of a fair presentation of tions negate the possibility that situations it considers prob­istry is to ignore such sexual dirty and unspeakable. This is the issue: the thoughtful and she might have the right to lematic. The second scenario emotion and wait for it to go portrayed despite evidence sug­independent analysis of the is­make her own decision about involved a playful wrestling away. Such advice, even if it is gesting that (gay) orientation is sues of freedom of conscience, the meaning of "moral" behav­match between friends which only implied, does no one any innate or formed very early in and of homosexuality. By so ior. Paternalism certainly can­resulted in the arousal of one good. life (or both). protecting itself, it betrays both not stomach that. of the young men. The other Raising the issue of homosex­missions this University claims 
young man fled the room, and Homoerotic feelings may or uality again in its second col­to hold in balance: it betrays 
It is bad enough that a young he and his friend never dis­may not "go away" from the umn, replete with rhetoric sug­Catholicism by robbing man's uncomplicated enjoyment cussed the incident. The un­life of a pre-or early­gesting sexuality as a reflection Catholics of their right to rely of his own sexual function is named writer of the Campus pubescent individual. When they of God, would have raised a too upon the discernment of the associated with the dysfunc­Ministry piece patronizingly as­are experienced in adulthood, embarassing line of questions: Spirit in making decisions of tional behavioral category of sures the young man (I hope a whether as primary or as sec­If all sexuality is innate or personal morality and spiritu­compulsion or with the use of fictional one, because I hope ondary sexual emotion, the only early-acquired, if sexuality is a ality, and it betrays the Univer­pornography, in an attempt to OCM has better advice to offer healthy option is to integrate reflection of God's creativity, sity by subverting the freedom enforce the anachronistic con­to real people) that he need not them into a whole sexuality: could gay sexuality be a reflec­of inquiry characteristic of demnation of the activity of worry about the incident, which only the most violent repression tion of God as well? Could the such institutions. By doing so, masturbation. "might say little about... sexual will remove them. creativity of gay love also re­it betrays us all, gay and non­
The worst of Campus Min­orientation but a lot Again, not surprisingly, the flect the creativity of God? gay alike. istry's recent hysterical offer­about... sexuality." CM column, which suggests the Could the :'integration" the sec­ings is its assumption that an In its next advertisement, integration of sexual emotion is ond colurnq prescribes include issue as important as homo­although offering facile healthy because such emotions the integration of gay sexual­J. Michael Leger is a graduate sexuality can be raised and assessments of the heterosex-reflect at our core the being of ity? With the inevitability of all student in English. 
~­


MUSIC The Professor's Blues Review, Center Street Blues 
Cafe, 9:30 p.m. $5 
Mr. E, Bridget's, 10:30 p.m. 
Phoenix, Alumni-Senior Club, 9 p.m. 
The Pre-Sweat ltchies, McCormick's 
An Evening With Mark Twain, a one-man perfor­mance by Michael Mauldin, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. $10.50-&13.50 
The Generators, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. $5 
Mr.E, Bridget's . 10:30 p.m. 
Misfits In Disguise, comedy group, Alumni-Senior Club 
NOTRE DAME Friday "The Wall," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 
Saturday "La Lectrice," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Honey, I Shrunk The Kids," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Born on the Fourth of July," 7 and 9:50p.m. "Driving Miss Daisy," 7:40 and 9:40p.m. "Nightbreed," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Steel Magnolias," 7:15 and 9:35p.m. "My Left Foot," 7:15 and 9:15p.m. "Madhouse," 7 and 9 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 

r:./'1 "Glory," 7:00 and 9:35p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:35p.m. "Men Don't Leave," 7:15 and 10 p.m. 
FORUM "Roger & Me," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Hard To Kill," 7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Stella ," 7 and 9:20p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "The War of the Roses", 7:15 and 9:45p.m. "Flashback", 7:20 and 9:40p.m. "Henry V," 5:30 and 8:30p.m. 
100 CENTER "Look Who's Talking," 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Tango & Cash", 7 and 9:00p.m. 
SCOTTSDALE "Madhouse," 7:45 and 9:45p.m. "Revenge," 7 and 9:30p.m. 
DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH 
accent writer 
on't let their day 
jobs fools you; 
these guys can 
jam. Although 
they are most at home when performing, the members of the campus band Smoke Taxi have talents that lie outside the musical realm. 
Kurt Gerdenich, the bass player, raises pigs on a Mishawaka farm with his roommate. If you look closely at his bass, you will see a pic­ture of a pig pasted to the front of it. Rich Pagan, the barefoot drummer, arranges flora at Irish Gardens. (Perhaps it is his green thumb that draws the disproportionately female crowd to Taxi performances.) The lead singer, Gerard Don­nelly, spends his days and occa­sional nights minding the "Vermin" of Carroll Hall by working as a resident assistant. The lead guitar player, Scott Lindley, can be found behind the reference desk of the li­brary accommodating academ­ically ambitious Domers. And last, but certainly not least, Dave Kirchner, the rhythm gui­tarist who also plays a potent harmonica, is engaged in the active pursuit of leisure. 
Smoke Taxi plays a mixture of classic rock as well as newer music. Their repertoire con­sists of songs such as "Heartbreak Hotel", "Takin' Care of Business" and "Desire" by U2. Before the band begins, they decide on the songs they will play in each set. As the night progresses, they are flex­ible and will change depending on the mood of the audience. 

The five members of the band Smoke Taxi are: (I tor) Dave Kirchner, Kurt Gerden 
Scott Lindley, and Gerard Donnelly. 
"We play to entertain the crowd," said Kurt, the bass guitarist. As well as playing cover songs, Dave and Gerard are currently working on creat­ing some original music. The lyrics Gerard writes are often inspired by dreams; when he wakes up he records them on a Dictaphone. 
Each member has been influ­enced by various musicians. Pagan and Lindley are most af­fected by Led Zepplin. Kirchner is impressed by the guitar skill of Eric Clapton. Gerdenich, on the other hand, prefers the progressive sounds of REM and The Smiths. Donnelly, has been most influenced by the soulful yet cutting voice of Bono, the lead singer of U2. 
Smoke Taxi first played to­gether on Fieldhouse Mall last spring without a name or a rhythm guitarist (a random rhythm guitar player stepped in for Dave). The band was less 
vorva111s Calling is: (I to r) Ray Cihak, Hod Wells, Joni Martin, Steve Petrill, John Cihak, and Kevin Jones. 
JANICE O'LEARY 
accent writer 
orvallis Calling had 
its beginnings early 
in life. This campus 
band was started 
when the three leaders were in high school, back in Corvallis, Oregon. 
There are six members of the band: brothers Ray and John Cihak, Hod Wells, Steve Petrill, Kevin Jones and Joni Martin. 
Ray, Hod and Steve are all seniors, John and Joni are sophomores and Kevin is a freshman. 
Although Corvallis Calling has been around since 1985, the current band was only formed this year with the addition of Joni, Steve, and Kevin. 
The type of music the band plays ranges from classic rock to "danceable stuff," according to John Cihak. "We have more of a gritty sound, with the harder side as Aerosmith and the lighter side as INXS," he continued. 

"We play a mixture of music," said Joni Martin. "Everything from Led Zeppelin to Pat Benetar to Heart." 
Corvallis Calling has played at such popular off-campus clubs as Bridget's, McCormick's, and Club Shenanigans. They have also performed at Senior Bar and NAZZ (last year's campus battle of the bands). 
John and Joni are the vocal­ists for the group, and John also plays keyboards. Ray plays bass, Kevin is on the drums, Hod plays the guitar, and Steve plays the saxaphone. 
Corvallis Calling will be play­ing again on March 2, at Mc­Cormick's. 
than proud of their perfor­mance, and it may have beRn to their benefit to be anonymous. Rich confessed, "For the next week we all walked around campus wearing dark sun­glasses." 
Since then, the band has found their present name, a derivation of the Dead Kennedy song, Police Truck. Fortu­nately, they did not opt for their first idea, Firebus. They have also been practicing at least once a week in the basement of Keenan Hall. 
With an identity, a rhythm guitarist and some experience, Smoke Taxi has established themselves as a popular cam­pus band. They have played at such familiar hangouts as Club 23 and McCormicks. They will be playing at the Sophomore Formal on March 2, and Senior Bar on March 30. They hope to be playing at Lenny's in the near future. In addition, the band plans to enter thfl Nazz 

,..,..,..~,...,...,= 
JOHN O'BRIEN 
accent writer 

f you haw hPard of Blind Faith. Power Station, or the Trawlling Wilburys, you are probably 
familiar with the tPrm "SupPrgroup." This is the namP given to rock groups that am made up of superstars from sewral famous groups and that rome together to share a com­mon musical vision as well as sell millions of records. While not as famous as most Super­groups, Notre Dame has been takfln by storm by a Super­group of its own: Phoenix. 
J)p,vastated by graduations and transfers, J)p,adhorsfl and After Hours, two of last year's hottest campus bands, looked toward 1989-90 with concern. However, out of the ashes of these two bands came Phoenix, a group which combines the hard rock of Deadhorsfl with the variety of clas­sic/contemporary rock of After I lours. According to bassist Jim "The Jimmer" Burke, "You could describe our music as the classic rock of After Hours with a little more force." 
In last year's NAZZ I battle of the campus bands), Deadhorse came in fourth place out of 20 bands. It was the band's first public appearance, and they played music from Led 
-----·------------------------------~ 
13 

up & coming...
mpus ban 
the 


tion in the spring. very satisfied with the we've made since we said Gerard. Smoke 
joys performing for an ic audience. "It's the eling to play to a dead 
said Dave. asked about other \lands, the members of axi responded favor­~y respect the different rthe other student d they do not find any for places to play. a limited amount of ad each one has their net sound." Dave said. t compete with other e cater to the the ::;erard added. 1vious that Smoke Taxi :ause it is what they 
1. And they do it well. ·ased it best when he tying really isn't so 
effort. as it is a way to ople forget their prob­1feel for a while." 

5 
JASON WINSLADE the Weasel. Using a style in­fluenced by Ray Manzarek of 
accent writer 

GENERICS
the Doors, the Weasel blends well with the other instruments,

o, it's not short for COLLEEN CRONIN 
their practices the chemistrya feat not often accomplished Mr. Ed. It's not an 
assistant accent editor among them is perfectly clear
by bar bands using keyboards. 
anagram for as they interact and play off of 
The sounds are professional,
R.E.M., although otre Dame has each other. The five play as
not tinny, due mainly to thethey might do an yet to experience equals, no instrument or vocalquality of the keyboards. 
occasional R.E.M. cover. Mr. E what should dominates.
Sean's powerful voice ex­
is a musical group that was re­prove to be the The playlist is not too intri­
pands many ranges, allowing 
N
cently formed by three Notre hottest campus cate: songs people can let loose 
him to accurately cover U2, the
Dame students and two local band. to. There are not many dance 
Cult, the Doors, and others,
musicians. A play on the word "Stellar, very stellar," are the bands that play on campus at
while Sean's bass and Tim's
"mystery" seen on a license first words Damian Shiner, lead SYRs and the like, and The
high energy drums provide the
plate, Mr. E consists of John on vocalist, found to describe The Generics want to remedy that. bass, Tim (Fitz) Fitzpatrick on groundwork for the band. Generics. "Halls should be able to get a
One of the advantages Mr. E
drums, and an energetic key­The Generics are five guys, good dance band if they want
has is its diversity of influence. 
boardist affectionately known three formerly of the now-de­one," said Geist. 
They play everything from 
as "The Weasel", all Notre funct Calcutta Rain, whose Their repertoire thus far in­
mainstream progressive to
Dame students. Providing the primary goal is "to have people cludes not only the usual songs
classic rock and old fashioned 
vocals and guitar are Sean and come hear us and drink beer like "What I Like About You"
rock 'n' roll. They even can
· Chris, respectively. and get rowdy." If the song is The Romantics and "Melt With break into the obligatory blues 
With such disparate influ­not danceable, they do not play You" by Modern English, butjam, although their style pushes
ences as The Grateful Dead. the it. they also stray from the 
towards the harsher edge of 
Doors, and U2, Mr. E creates a The band is brimming with band status quo by taking on
that spectrum. Although for the
sound that definitely becomes talent-each of the five has The Cult, Icicle Works, Simple 
most part Mr. E is a cover band,
the party atmosphere needed at been playing an instrument for Minds, Echo and the Bunnymen 
their originality is shown in 
the band's major venues: bars. at least nine years-and it is and vintage U2. A lot of time 
interpretative covers of songs 
Technical skill along with high excitingly obvious that all of and effort have gone into 
quality equipment give Mr. E such as the Dead's "Fire on the them love to play. mastering these songs, which the good mix essential for any Mountain", and a few original Sophomore Dennis Wolfe, gives them that certain edgebar band. The band as a whole compositions showing the older drummer for The Generics, is and wakes up even the typical
interacts well and they are en­U2 influences. With a casual credited with concocting the party tunes that everyone has thusiastic about what they do. attitude of "think about when name of the band and getting heard a million times. Here is Who wants to see a bored, dull you want to" and a philosophy the group off the ground. He where their originality lies. ... band, anyway? of "we aim to entertain", Mr. E was a member of Calcutta Rain The Generics are anxious to 
Chris's guitar solos are influ­has the diversity to become one and when they broke up he had start playing for people and enced by Van Halen, and he of the most entertaining bar the perfect opportunity to put take the campus by storm. makes use of various simple ef­bands for the Notre Dame his idea into motion. Wolfe motivating force is to not only
fects. No second guitarist is crowds. Catch Mr. E at Bridget's talked to two other Rain mem­have fun but create fun," said used and that gap is filled by this Friday and Saturday at 10 bers, bassist Brian Grunert, a Grunert. "We want to get to the the ard workings of pm. sophomore, and Shiner, a ju­places everyone can go, 21 or 
nior, and they found "positive not." They have every intention energy" and a definite match in to be the band, and be a bigger creativity. Forming their own phenomenon than The band was the obvious route to Groove was last year. take. 

Through the grapevine and The name may sound strange through auditions, the three and arbitrary, but there is a became five. Sophomore Dave concept and an image govern­
really like it because I get to sit Geist took over on electric gui­ing it-it just has to be seen. In back while he takes over." tar and freshman Aras Ulenis the way of talent and sound, 
Phoenix's brand of classic entered on keyboards. though, the group defies their rock includes songs by The The Generics have not yet name. Once they play that first Who, Pink Floyd, Boston. and played in front of an audience, gig, the Notre Dame band scene The Doobie Brothers. They will not be the same. play incredible versions of 'We Won't Get Fooled Again' by The Who and 'Comfortably Numb' by Pink Floyd. "I like to get in­volved with the crowd, so we always try to do requests when 
MARY MURPHY unique elements like the violin. 
we can." said Shubert. Molloy The band's ideas are
added that, "we can pick up a accent writer 
by underground artists like the song after only one or two 
A 
tingle. A tickle. An Waterboys, Dinosaur Junior, 
tries." They also try to play itch. Sal Roe and and Camper Van Beethoven. 
songs other than the typical
The members of the band Phoenix include: (I tor) Pete Charleton, Flip Paul Hart caught The ltchies usually play cov­
classic rock staples. "We want
Molloy. Jim "Jimmer" Burke, Rich Della Pietra, Kurt Shubert, and Brian these symptoms of ers mixed with some original 
-

people to hear a song and say
Wenzel. the "pre-sweat Pre-Sweat material. Their fa­
'This is a great song-! haven't -~eppelin, Black Sabbath and Along with Burke, Deadhorse heard it in a long time." said itchies," and the rest is history. vorite song to perform is the Lead singer Sal Roe and indescribable "Paul's Back" 
Guns N' Roses. brought lead singer Kurt Shu­Della Pietra. "One of our drummer Paul Hart founded which they wrote about a
bert, keyboardist Rich Della Pi­biggest hits as Deadhorse was N"ter Hours edged out their etra, and guitarist Brian Wenzel 'My Sharona' by The Knack. the progressive rock band The friend. 
Pre-Sweat Itchies this year with The ltchies usually play in current bandmates of into the merger with After We played it as a joke but it lead guitarist John Immonen, two types of settings -bars andDeadhorse in coming in third Hours. Shubert sees quite a was a really big hit." 
rhythm guitarist Kristen parties. Although they like the place in the NAZZ competition. difference in Phoenix, "We're a Harknett, bass guitarist Ellen informal atmosphere at partie
They finished just behind The lot better now as Phoenix than As is usually the case with 
Groove and Catholics in Bad we were as Deadhorse and Supergroups, Phoenix can not Lansler, and violinist Shanon they prefer bars because they Standing, two of last year's After Hours. Now we (former stay together forever. Burke, Lynch. Roe and Hart are are more professional, and 
backed by three years of expe­draw a more diverse crowd. 
hottest bands. According to Flip members of Dead Horse) don't Molloy, and Shubert are all Se­drummer for After gear ourselves to a specific niors, and Wenzel is a first year rience in the band Barbara "The bars have more pres­MBA student. Thus, its ques­Billingsley, with whom they sure, they're more like an
and Phoenix, "Deadhorse group and this has allowed us a little too heavy, while we to attract a larger following." tionable whether Phoenix V'.ill produced a record. Through pation," said drummer Paul 
fly next year. You can catch Billingsley, they met John Im­Hart. 
re a little too light." Molloy, Della Pietra added, "The term The Itchies will be playing at
is joined by former After 'Supergroup' would apply be­them tonight at Senior Bar form monen, formerly of Youth In Asia, and eventually met McCormick's Bar this Saturday--l"'"r~ guitarist Pete Charlton, cause there are so many indi­10 p.m. to 2 a.m.. The Harknett, Lancer, and Lynch. in downtown South Bend. 
d that Phoenix has improved vidual talents." Shubert agreed, opportunity to see two of last The Pre-Sweat Itchies play -­the "recent, slower stuff of "One of our better songs is 'Just year's best bands under the banner of one of this year's best music ranging from "folksy in­And lastly, just in case you're
Hours. Now we play The Same Way' by Journey surely cannot last forever. fluences to distorted under­wondering, Sal Roe's favorite consistent classic rock." which Rich does vocals on. I ground," according to Paul cereal is King Vitamins, and 
Hart. The band tries to make Paul Hart's favorite cereal is their music offbeat, drawing in soggy Grapefruit Nuts. 



.... ­
The Observer page 14 
Women in the pastures of the good shepherd 
HeineiTiann pulls his readers into the VietnaiTI War 
When I went to Washington tend to speak for my class­
to study theology in 1950, all of mates, I don't think any of us us seminarians were more or would take pleasure in handling less naive; and seen in hind­the flock roughly, because we sight, this was probably unfor­were taught to be pastors, and givable. Yet my classmates and not hypocritical legalists who 
I were decent lads who believed burdens like the 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
in fair play, and we had faith in the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and the leadership of Jesus. 
Believe it or not, we were not educated to be male chauvin­ists. All of us had known a mother's tender, loving care, and most of us had sisters whom we respected deeply. If anyone had tried to brainwash us into treating them as an in­ferior gender, we were cheeky enough to have answered back, seeing to it that the teacher ei­ther changed his mind, or changed the subject. 
The celibate life was not pre­sented to us as any big deal. All we were told was that if wanted to be priests, celibacy came with the territory. Nobody ever said that celibacy was the lifestyle f the children of light, or that marriage was the cure for strong desire that the Church imposed on second­class Christians. Because brothers, nuns, and priests who belong to religious orders were willing to be poor, chaste, and obedient, they could give them­selves unreservedly to the ser­vice of the Church. 
Ever since I was ordained in 
1954, I've always tried to be on 
the side of the shorn lamb for 
whom the wind is not visibly 
tempered. Though I don't pre­
sunday, feb. 25 
8:30 p.m. Reading-Larry Heinemann, Library Auditorium 
monday, feb. 26 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Larry Heinemann, Library Lounge 8:30p.m. Reading-Ken Kesey, O'Laughlin Auditorium 
tuesday, feb. 27 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Ken Kesey, 
Library Lounge 8:30p.m. Reading-Sara Vogan, Library Auditorium 
9:00 p.m. Reading-Melissa Pritchard, Library Auditorium 
wednesday, feb. 28 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Sara Vogan, 
Library Lounge 8:30p.m. Reading-W.P Kinsella, Library Auditorium 
thursday, mar. 1 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-W.P. Kinsella, 
Library Lounge 8:30p.m. Reading-Joseph Coulson and Maura Stanton, Library Auditorium 
friday, mar. 2 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Joseph Coulson and Maura Stanton, Library Lounge 8:30p.m. Reading-Herbert Warren Mason, Jr., Library Auditorium 
saturday, mar. 3 
10:30 p.m. Discussion Forum-Herbert Warren Mason, Jr., Library Auditorium 


Pharisees... For nearly 36 
years, I've tried to offer grace 
to all comers, and to avoid say­
ing anything that would cause 
them to lose hope. 

Since this is so, why are mad­cap Catholics using brickbats, trying to break up that old gang of mine? Years ago, every Catholic in sight knew what guilt was; nowadays, I hear that guilt is an idea that the priests invented, as a way of keeping the world safe for God and His hirelings ... I don't care whether you call it guilt or the morning-after; I didn't in­vent the condition of people who have screwed up their lives, and neither did my class­mates. In any self-respecting church religion is what happens after the guilt is removed. The removal of guilt is the depart­ment of the Lamb of God; and if you want to know the truth, I didn't invent the idea of Him ei­ther. 
Just to let you see that I'm smarter today that I was yes­terday, let me mention that at lunch on Wednesday, I was in the University Club talking to a senior Theology major about Evelyn Waugh's "Brideshead Revisited." I said, "One morn­ing in New York at 4:00 a.m., when I finished reading the novel for the fifth or sixth time, 
BENJAMIN KELLY 
accent writer 
As college students who are too young to remember the Vietnam, most of us are willing to take the war on the face value of what old newsclips and 
books tell us. Larry 
Sophomore Literary•· Festival 
Heinemann's novels, however, take the reader to Vietnam and back to America after the war, in a way that requires the reader's scrutiny and feeling. Heinemann's two novels, "Close Quarters" and "Paco's Story," are his presentations of what Vietnam really meant to those who fought in the war, and to the country that is still reeling from its effects. Heinemann performs Monday, Feb. 25 in the Library Auditorium. 
Heinemann should know what he is talking about. He was in­ducted at age 22 into the Army in 1966 and served a tour of duty with the 25th Division in Vietnam as a combat infantry­man. 
Heinemann's first novel, "Close Quarters", could be con­sidered a diary in the year of the life of a Vietnam infantry­man. Philip Dozier first ap­pears in the novel as a green, unprepared youth who really has no idea what he is about to experience.After a year of mid-I realized in a"deeply moving way that it's the Eucharist that had traditionally given the Catholic Church its unique charm and grace. The Eucharist is the sacrament that the old-fashioned Catholics want most to receive as they lay dying." Later that afternoon, this insightcame back to me, when I noticed the signs put up by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 

When did the romance start to leave the Catholic Church? It began the day the Eucharist lost its magic as a religious symbol, and it started to taste flat, like tired champagne.The Eucharist is still with us, thank God; but who talks today of the Real Presence, which moved me so much as a young Protestant that I fell in love with the Catholic Church? Once you feel at home with the Eucharist. the denominational churches feel comfortless, unless their crowded with worshippers, be­cause the empty sanctuaries make you feel conscious of the Real Absence of Christ in the Eucharist. 
As a doctrine, transubstanti­ation may, or may not, be nego­tiable; but the trouble with lesser doctrines explaining this sacrament of love is that they leave you feeling cheated, as though the Catholic Eucharist were a Protestant ritual, chiefly efficacious in reminding us of the Real Absence. 
But you may object: Christ is God, and God is everywhere; so why get fixated on a sacramen­tal presence? That's like say­ing: all of us are children of the living God, so what's the big deal about the Incarnation of the only-begotten Son? 
So when in the career of the Catholic Church did the dark­ness begin to hit the fan? It started as soon as we began to demythologize and in other ways diminish the Eucharist as a religious symbol. It doesn't matter whether you receive Communion in your hands or on your tongue, if, at the same time, you receive Christ in your heart as an act of faith. Something is lost aesthetically, however, if the homemade altar bread--used at Sunday Mass in place of the hosts prepared in the convent-starts to look like a doggie treat when it's taken out of the tabernacle as a leftover on Monday. 

These trivialities led to the scandals which may have caused God to weep; that is, the "Pizza and beer/ Jesus is here" liturgies, celebrated on the beach, as the sun was setting, after a swim. "Pizza and beer is what Jesus would use," those Catholic flower children told each other, "if He were hosting His last supper among us tonight." Stuff like that took place in the time of Vietnam, when a hippie Mass was re­garded as better than no prayers at all, since the contro­versy over whether God is dead was still alive. 
It's now been twenty years since I saw a student going to Communion at a peace Mass held outside in the South Quad with the cigarette she was smoking in her hand. Her gen­eration now have children of their own who may have been raised as Catholics. What would it mean to them, coming here to school, if you described Notre Dame as the "City of the Blessed Sacrament?" Even if they go to Mass every Sunday, what would it mean to them that in every chapel, the Blessed 
night ambush patrols, sniper fire, and meaningless death, Dozier leaves Vietnam a con­fused, hardened man who knows what he has experi­enced, but has no idea how to feel about it. 
"Close Quarters," if anything, is authentic: Heinemann drags the reader's eyes, ears and nose into the Vietnam War. There is the dying screams of battles, the blank stare at the sight of a dead person, the deafening 
sound of airplane bombing 
runs,a and the sight and smell 
of dirt, blood and marijuana. 
Heinemann's mastery at relat­
ing the sensory perceptions 
makes "Close Quarters" alarm­
ingly realistic. 
Heinemann's second novel, "Paco's Story," is his account of what it means to be a Vietnam veteran in America. It 
is not war story, he is quick to 
point out at the book's begin­
ning. It is a story of post-war 
perceptions, prejudices, and 
hardship. 
"Paco" is Paco Sullivan, a vet­eran who was the only survivor of a vicious firefight between two Army and VietCong pla­toons. His survival is miracu­lous, but it is hardly a glorious victory. Paco's horribly burnt and scarred skin marks him for life as a war victim. 
Upon his return to the United States, Paco is unable to find his way back into the main­stream, primarily because of society's unwillingness to let back into it. "Paco's Story" is Heinemann's startling comment on how America reacted to the Vietnam War and its veterans, and the reader is compelled to react to Heinemann's feelings. 
Heinemann is, arguably, one of the best new novelists in America. "Paco's Story" won Heinemann the National Book Award for fiction, along with many honors and recognitions. He is forceful writer who ig­nites the reader's senses and emotions. 
Sacrament is reserved in the tabernacle? 
A broiling and turbulent stream of events has passed under the bridge over troubled waters in the past twenty years. Whether you love John Paul II, or regard him as a hindrance, you could take to heart Christ's warning that a house divided against itself cannot stand. Applied to Catholicism, that might mean that Church is coming apart at the seams, like the Soviet power bloc. Maybe, someday, all that will be left of the ancient structure is a dozen Christians gathered in an Upper Room, to reenact the memorial meal of the Lord's passion. If that should happen, maybe the Church, starting over, would be more careful about cheapening the sacred mysteries, the next time around. 
I'm writing all this as a reac­tion to the notices of a panel discussion on "Women Priests: History and Symbol" that took place this week. In their strug­gle to become ordained minis­ters of the Eucharist, the gentler sex has set their hearts on gaining access to our reli­gion's all-powerful symbol. If their motive is political, they could-prematurely, I trust­be digging a grave for the Church. If their motive is spiri­tual and loving, why do they seem so willing to trash the lifework of old priests, who might be inclined to wish them well? I hear them when they're reasonable, and feel I'd like to be their friend. I hear them when they're shrill, unreason­able and accusatory, and I wonder if the Church could sur­vive their ordination. 

.. 
Friday, February 23, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Turner Broadcasting to start showing NFL games in 1990 
NEW YORK (AP) -Turner Broadcasting Systems and the NFL agreed Thursday to a four-year, $450 million c9ntract to show 47 prime-time games on SuperStation WTBS, beginning this fall. 
The agreement calls for WTBS to televise three pre­season games each year, plus regular-season games in the first nine weeks of the 1990, 1992 and 1993 seasons and the first eight weeks of the 1991 season. Most of the games will be on Sunday night. 
"The NFL is among tele­vision's most elite program­ming. We are extremely pleased with the addition of the NFL to our sports telecast lineup," Terence F. McGuirk, president of Turner Sports, said in a statement. "This increased distribution of the NFL games will benefit TBS and fans of the NFL as well." 
NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said: "The NFL is pleased to join TBS in the presentation of NFL games over the next four years. I look forward to an association with TBS that I expect will bring an­other first-class offering to millions of fans throughout the nation." 

Television sources said ESPN will keep its package of eight Sunday night games in the second half of the season, which will stretch to 17 weeks in 1991 and possibly 18 after that. ESPN, which also gets the Pro Bowl and two exhibition games, also is expected to pay about $450 million. ESPN paid $153 million in a three-year deal that expired earlier this month. 
"We are still negotiating with the NFL," Roger Werner, president of ESPN said. 
"An important factor was the additional promotional opportunity afforded by Turner with its four networks and also Turner's presence overseas," said Dick Maxwell, the NFL's director of information. 
Officials from CBS met with the NFL on Monday and offi­cials from NBC met with them Tuesday. A source familiar with the negotiations said NBC no longer is interested in trying to obtain NFC games as part of its deal. 
CBS, the long-time network of the NFC, pays a premium for that conference because the teams come from larger markets. 
ABC, meanwhile, is trying to keep its Monday night package despite competition from Fox and CBS. 
The deals are expected to be completed by March 10, when the NFL starts its annual meetings. Judging by the money the networks have been throwing at other sports, the NFL would appear to be in line for a big revenue jump. 
CBS turned over $1.06 billion to baseball for four years. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 to 3 p m at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
SPRING BREAK IN THE SUN 
Guaranteed Lowest Prices! 
·cancun--$424 South Padre--$169 •Bahamas--$469 
•(Airfare included) Call Ted x3276 
EXPERT TYPING AVAILABLE. CALL LIZ 234-1075 AFTER 1 PM. 
For a hot tip on where 
to find a good time Call 647-0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotline 

I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! An antique ring with a green square stone; lost on Feb. 14 possibly in south dining hall. Great sentimental value. REWARD! Call Deb at x3829 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET WIND ID AND NY LICENSE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA X1268. IT'S 3 WEEKS TO MY 21ST!!!!!!!!!! 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify 
LOST 

Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­Vision case. Please call x2967 if found. 
Found: Men's ring outside South Dining Hall. Call David X. 3233 
A PAIR OF WOMEN'S GLOVES 
Found on the walkway near North Dining hall on Saturday, February 17, in the morning. They look like they belong to somebody's mother from JPW. If you can describe them, they are yours. Call x3311. 
JPW dinner table #37-­found roll of film, call Anne #2783 
WANTED 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
ATIENT ION -EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 
NO SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Will pay good money for Football. Basketball photos call Tom@ 2185 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Outstanding brother/sister sports camps -22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls -215-884-3326; boys-914-698­1833. 
Apple Computer is now accepting applications for the campus position of student representative. Responsibilities include marketing and some technical. Prefer sophomores and juniors. Please send resume to: 
Apple Computer 6133 N. River Road Rosemont, IL 60018 Attn: Bill Duff 
ATIENTION! ATIENTIONI Anyone interested in playing AD&D please contact Bob at 
x1797 
COUNSELOR Women's Care Center, pro-life pregnancy help center looking for full-time counselor to do pregnancy testing, support counseling, social service and medical referrals to offer positive a~ernatives to abortion for girls/women facing unplanned pregnancies. BA or equivalent experience required. Salary and benefits commensurate with experience. Will train. Send resume to: wee 
417 N. St. Louis St. South Bend, IN 46617 Attn: Jeanne Thelen 
I need a ride to K.C., or St. Louis, Mo., or to Ottumwa, Ia over Spring Break. Will help with driving and expenses. Call Maureen 284-4336 $$$ 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 BDRM, WiD. CLOSE TO NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­6010. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 and 4 bedrm. furnished houses; 90-91 year. Great cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 
FOR SALE 
GUITAR FOR SALE!!!!!!! GIBSON Epiphone Strat Copy Like New -Black on White $150.00 or bio call Michael at x2259 
Kenwood 40-Watt receiver for sale. $140 or B.O. 277-9905 ask for John. 
Realistic AM/FM stereo rcvr. 65 watts/channel. Must sell-$200 or best offer. Call271-5686, ask for Geoff. 
1982 Volkswagen Rabbit 4 door, air cond; $600 Call Chris @1690 
TYPEWRITER-$75; SHORT­WAVE RADI0-$60; 287-2834 
1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000 loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy Bumper/Hitch. $5,800 or B/0. 271-8016. 
FT. WALTON BEACH, FLORIDA One Way Ticket. Leaves SB on 3/8,$55. Call John X1812 
Plane Ticket to L.A. -Leave: Thurs. 3/8, Return Mon. 3/20 $100-Must be female! Call Beth 284-5209 
I TICKETS 
4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs for sale.272-6306 

Help! I need 2 student tickets and oneGA for the Georgia Tech game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 
I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT 502-582-1920. 
NEED GEORGIA TECH TIX, ST. & GA. CALL JOAN IE x3851 
I need two tix for the Missouri game. Call Tim Thompson at 277­
5398. 

Need 4 Missouri GA's. Call Robin x 4011. 
GEORGIA TECH! GEORGIA TECH! I need tickets like you wouldn't believe. Please sell me yours before my rich alum brother boils my skin in oil. TOP DOLLAR!!! John x3584 
SUMMER JOBS COUNSELORS· 90VSCAMP. W.MASS.IGIRLS CAMP. MAINE TOP SALARY. RMIIIDILAUNDRY. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST LOVE KIDS AND HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY ARTS&CRAFTS, BASEBALL. BASKET9ALL.BICVCLING. CHEERLEADING. DANCE. DRA~IA. DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL. GOLF GUITAR, GYMNASTICS. HOCf:E Y. HORSEBACK, KARATE LACRLSSE, NATURE, NURSES. PHOTOGRAPHY. PIANO. RADIO. ROCKETRY. ROPES. SAIL90ARDING SAILING, SCUBA. SOCCER. TENNIS. TRACK. W.S I. WATERSKI, WEIGHTS. WOOD STOP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD FROM 11 :OOAM-6:00PM IN LAFORTUNE 
STUDENT UNION. DOOLEY ROOM 1#37) 
need 3 GA tix for Georgia Tech. call x1512 
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x 233-6582 
I need some Georgia Tech tickets for my little brothers .. Please call Kelly at •4955 
Need 4 Mizzou Tix-GAorSTU $$$$$Call 277-7260$$$$$$ 
FOR SALE: Spring Break Plane ticket to NEW YORK CITY call: ALl X x4845 
OH BOY I REALLY NEED TICKETS FOR THE MISSOURI GAME--CALL X1128. 
4 SALE: 1 WAY AIR TICKET TO PHX ON 219. BEST OFFER­X11651AN. 
NEED 4 G. Tech and 4 Missou GA's and 2 Missou studs. Call Matt at x2265. 
Need TODD RUNDGREN tix for Vic Theatre, Chicago -3/2 or 3/3. Kevin x1160 
Need TODD RUNDGREN tix for Vic Theatre, Chicago -3/2 or 3/3. Kevin x1160 
HELP!!!! Desperately Need 4 Missouri tickets for big bra! PLEASE CALL!!! Ann 4x5087 BIG BUCKS INVOLVEDIII 
I PERSONALS I 
To the girl in the red sweater at the DePaul game on Tues., from the guy in the gray T-shirt, if you're interested, respond here. 
PAUL, JEFF & SUPE, Don't expect things when we are drunk. It's more creative when we're sober. 

Looking for a fraternity, sorority of student organization that would like to make $500-$1000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (BOO) 592-2121. 
HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­
8445. 
Grand Opening Feb. 23 -at Grace Hall The COFFEEHOUSE 

SUNSHINE: I hope you're not feeling quite as cloudy now & MARY, in all seriousness, that $3 has turned you into one FABULOUS BABE!!! 
KILLER-how much better than Nelson?-Spitfire 

Do you wants lots of money? Sell me your Georgia Tech tickets and I'll give you enough to surround yourself with booze, babes and bashes. TOP DOLLAR!!! John x3584 
To the girl who invited me to the junior dance on Friday: Thanks, but I have my SYR that night. Tim, 409 St. Eds. 
ted & scott no shaving this weekend! we're gonna party tough 
-love us 
P.S. I know a secret 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx What, Kate's not here? xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
Notre Dame welcomes Cathy Latka with open arms ... especially Whitey 
----PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES----­at McCormick's Saturday, Feb. 24 ----PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES----­
SCOTI WALKER... Get OUT of MY section! 
BURST TECH'S BUBBLE! GO IRISH! 

SOPHOMORES!! Get ready: THE SOPHOMORE EXPRESS 
is on it's way. WHERE? Union Station WHEN? Friday, March 2, from 
9:30pm to 1:OOam Featuring the band: "SMOKE TAXI" 

Tickets are $15.00 per couple and on sale NOW!!!! They include two souvenior glasses and round trip transportation. 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 

Featuring up & coming bands. Don1 miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
ADOPTION 

Physician and wife, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded message. (219) 625-4205. 
READ EXODUS 22:1 8 READ EXODUS 22:18 READ EXODUS 22:18 

Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!!! Love your busy bees! 
SPRING BREAK 
DAYTONA 

$139 rm. only $229 w. trans. high quality accommadations 
call Todd 1-800-265-1799 

Give up? She's MARGARET TORTORELLA and she'll be 19 so give her a call and wish her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY! #3706 
Need a ride to St. Louis on 3/30!!! Call Julie x3141 

Ride the Windy City Shuttle $10.00 at the Information Desk JUST DO IT!!! 
PLEASE, PLEASE offer me your--­Georgia Tech tix! call Paula x4633 
THE PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES MC CORMICK'S FEB 24 10PM-? BRING DEODERANT 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
THE PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES MCCORMICK'S SAT. 10PM 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
TOWNHOUSES 

FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE 
LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood ,dishwasher CALL 232 • 8256 
Claud-babe and Kaster-­dumplings are out, Mancuso is in! See you tonight -Tigger and Pooh 
CONGRATULATIONS TO DANNY MCCARTHY!!! LOOK OUT MALDEN CATHOLIC!!! AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM!!! LOVE BRIAN AND AMY 
NEED THREE GEORGIA TECH TICKETS!!! CALL KEVIN AT X17BB 
Lucy, Patty & Julie-Have a great day & get psyched for the weekend, although nothing can match last weekend's Hoosier Hysteria & the progressive high school boys!!! 
LEE Best wishes at the Bouts! You'll always be looking good to us! Love your SMC fan club-joy, amy, anne, jeni, julie & mo. 
Valentines 
T. 
Have a great weekend. The other T. of"TnT." 
Bernard, We're off to the Bahamas! For some fun in the sun. 
Terry 
Mark. I hope you're really hung after your B-day. 
Steve, How much is in your account? Five dollars. I bet you got a lot. Rico 
Frank. you don't have what it takes to beat Slimfast. 
The last of the Mock Trial Quotes: 
10. We had to settle for Cokes-pizza took too long. 
9. You resemble that remark. 
8. It was short but it was secure. 
7. But Chicago is two hours from here! 
6. Karen, you definitely win the hung-over award in terms of looks. 
5. "The lupohound: a double barreled shotgun with a tail." 
4. Party foul 
3.1• HUGS 
2. What they can tell us is why Toledo and Rhodes made it to the finals. What they can't tell us is why Notre Dame didn't. 
1. Notre Dame: Fourth place. Miami of Florida-nowhere in the top ten?! 
GO IRISH POP TECH! 
MELISSA!!! Only 2 weeks until we finally get to have some fun in the WARM sun!!! Florida will never be the same! 
hiag 
RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. 

-----~------­
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 23, 1990 
I I 
I Stith's jumper stiffs Georgia Tech at buzzer and Cavaliers win ACC battle 
ATLANTA (AP) -Bryant points, Kenny Turner added 17 La Salle won its 16th straight pointer with 1:51 remaining to Derek Strong added 18 points I Stith's short jumper in the lane and Crotty 14. game Thursday night, a 100-60 give the Explorers a 44-28 lead. for Xavier (22-2, 11-1), which I at the buzzer gave Virginia a Oliver had 23 and freshman Metro Atlantic Athletic The basket capped a 9-1 run clinched its third regular-sea­
I 
73-71 upset victory over No. 8 Kenny Anderson 21 for the Conference -victory over for La Salle's biggest lead of son Midwestern CollegiateGeorgia Tech on Thursday Jackets, who got a poor shoot­Manhattan. the half. Conference championship in the 
I 
night, snapping the Yellow ing game from leading scorer Simmons ended the only sus­Doug Overton and Simmons last five years. Jamie Gladden Jackets' seven-game winning Dennis Scott, who finished with pense of the evening with 12:44 powered La Salle in the second scored 16 points, eight during streak. 11 points. remaining in the first half, hit­half, with the Explorers taking the Musketeers' 18-0 run. 
Stith's game-winner came on Scott hit only three of 16 ting the front end of a two-shot an 86-48 lead on Simmons' 3­
I 
an in-bounds pass from John shots, three of 14 from 3-point foul to become the fifth pointer with 6:19 to go. The Titans (9-15, 2-9) took a
I 
I Crotty after a Cavalier turnover range. Division I player to score 3,000 Simmons then left to a standing 25-22 lead on Shawn Williams' I enabled Tech to gain a tie at 71 Neither team was able to points. ovation by the 8,136 fans. rebound with 5:45 left in the 
on Brian Oliver's 3-point basket build more than a five-point The Civic Center erupted with first half but Xavier led 33-30I with 41 seconds to play in the lead, that by Virginia twice in blue and yellow streamers fly­at halftime. I Atlantic Coast Conference the final seven minutes, 64-59 ing from the stands and bal­Xavier 74, Detroit 62 Detroit struck back for a 59­
game. and 66-61. loons faijing from the ceiling as DETROIT (AP) -Tyrone Hill 54 lead on Dwayne Kelley'sI There were 14 ties and 21 Simmons reached his milestone scored 23 points and No. 19 eight-foot jumper with 10:54 I I lead changes before Virginia La Salle 100, to give La Salle (24-1, 14-0) a Xavier held Detroit scoreless left in the game. But the Titans I (16-8, 5-6 ACC) got its second Manhattan 60 15-10 lead (10-16, 6-9). for nearly 10 minutes down the then went cold, missing 12 
victory of the year over the PIIILADELPHIA (AP) Simmons, who has a career stretch while reeling off 18 shots while Xavier went on its ~ Yellow Jackets (19-5, 7-5) and Lionel Simmons scored 27 total of 3,024 points, passed consecutive points and rallying 18-0 run over the next 9:52. An 
snapped a five-game losing points to pass the 3,000 mark Hersey Hawkins' 3,008 for for a 7 4-62 victory over the 18-footer by Gladden put theI streak against Tech in Atlanta. and move into fourth place on fourth place list with his last University of Detroit on Musketeers ahead to stay 60-59 I Stith led the Cavs with 19 the all-time NCAA list as No. 14 basket of the first half, a 3-Thursday night. with 6:29 remaining. I I I I 
l 
Only forstudentAmerican Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express~ Card.

-Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six 
.weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 

• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES 1DWARDS FREE TRAVEL­


when you enroll in Northwests WorldPerks~ Free Travel Program. · 
AND NOW BECOMING ACARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS ATELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges• 
1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

"If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO. Box 35029, Ann: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Scats at this fare arc limited and may not be available when you caU. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call l-800-942~AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 


St. Edwards Hall Forum Father Oliver Williams, CSC, Associate Provost Speaks On: "What I think about Nelson Mandela and the Future of South Africa" A First-Hand Report Thursday, March 1 7:00p.m. St. Edward's Hall 


FOR BOYS  FOR GIRLS  
5GLENLANE  P.O. BOX 1771  
MAMARONECK, N.Y.10543  DUXBURY, MA. 02332  

STAFFING NOW FOR THE 1990 SUMMER SEASON POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER COUNSELORS WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONG SKILLS AND THE ABILITY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Computer Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General Counselors, Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneering, Riding, Rocketry, Ropes Course, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Support Staff, Swimming, Tennis, Track, Volleyball, Waterskiing, Weight Training, Windsurfing, Woodworking, Yearbook 
FULL EIGHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW; 
TODAY FROM 11:00 AM-4:00PM LA FORTUNE STUDENT UNION-DOOLEY ROOM (137) 
page 17 

upsets, and they have to pick 
three or four teams from a 
conference, that'll hurt us. I 
know thre.e Big 10 teams will 
go, and Northern Illinois." 
Other teams may get in, but 

none is more deserving. Despite 
the dearth of players, the Irish 
uptempo offense hasn't been 
stalled. The team is averaging 
75 points per contest, 81 per 
game in the MCC. Despite aver­
aging just over 5-8 in the start­
ing lineup, the Irish are third in 
the MCC in rebound margin. 
"We haven't changed just be­

cause we're down to eight peo­
ple," McGraw says. "We still 
run our offense, and we've 
stayed uptempo. We've had to 
change our defensive strategy. 
We play less man-to-man than 
I'd like to, but our zone defense 
has been good." 
The young Irish are led by floor general Karen Robinson, a junior seeking her 1000th ca­reer point, currently averaging just under 15 points per game. Contributing in the frontcourt are junior Krissi Davis (11.1 points, 6.9 boards per game) and sophomore Margaret Nowlin (10.5 ppg, 6.9 rpg). Junior Sara Liebscher and Freshman Coquese Washington complete the three-guard lineup, and reserves Lisa Kuhns, Deb Fitzgerald and Majenica Rupe see plenty of playing time. 
If the Irish were bypassed by the NCAA, playing in the NIT might prove difficult. 
"In the NCAA, you play Wednesday and Saturday, or maybe Thursday-Saturday," McGraw says, "but the NIT plays three games in three days. I just don't know if it'd be worth it, or fair to the NIT. If we lost even one player...! don't know what you can do with seven people." 
The Irish may have picked a great time to come through with a tremendous season, as California's Lisa Leslie, the best high-school senior in the coun­try, who nearly broke Cheryl Miller's single-game scoring record, is considering playing for Notre Dame. 
"She was just given the na­tional Outstanding Student­Athlete Award," McGraw says. "She's a good student. It's a question of whether she's going to play far from home or not. She may be leaning toward USC, but USA Today called them one of the biggest disap­pointments this season. They're 6-18. 
"I think Lisa could take us to the next level of competi­tion ... Top 20, Final Four..." 
And although Leslie would be a welcome addition to any team, right now the eight Irish players are a handful enough for the MCC. And maybe, just maybe, the NCAA. 
FREE 

TANNING 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
advantage of the positives, running up an impressive 13-0 record against the Midwest Collegiate Conference and an 18-6 mark overall. The Irish are currently on a seven-game winning streak and will finish the season with two home games against conference op­ponents before the MCC Tournament. 
"There are good and bad 
points," McGraw says of having 
a bench that only goes three­
deep. "The team has grown re­
ally close. They have a great at­
titude. There's no complaining 
about playing time. They all 
know they're going to get to 
play. They know they can only 
be as good as eight people can 
be." 
But this year, eight may be enough to get the Irish a first­ever NCAA tournament bid. Not bad for a small, scrappy team that has gone up against women's basketball powers like Tennessee, UCLA and Old Dominion. 
"We're not in the driver's seat," McGraw says of the Tournament possibilities for the Irish. "We're on the bubble, so we've gotta keep winning. I know they're looking at us. We have a great record against a good schedule. We haven't had any bad losses. We've played well in all our losses, except DePaul." 
The women's Tournament, like the men's, depends on con­ference championships and tournaments, so late-season upsets could spell NIT for Notre Dame. 
"It all depends on who goes," McGraw says. "If there are 

Camp Vega 
Friday, February 23, 1990 

page 18 The Observer 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
dous motivator, because the boxers receive no scholarships or athletic perks for their par­ticipation in the bouts. Balint and Cane have been fighting since September when they or­ganized the Novice Bengal Bout Tournament and now put in nearly four hours a day in the gym preparing themselves, and their fellow pugilists, for the three-round Bouts. 
"Practice is tougher than the actual fight." Cane said. "You've already done the things you need to do to prepare, like fighting bigger boxers to get used to their strength and smaller fighters to get used to their quickness. So by the time you step into the ring you're able to see your hard work pay off." 
Balint and Cane once de­pnndnd heavily upon their cap­tains to guide their develop­ment. And now that they have ascended into a leadership role, thl~Y are committed to sharing the knowledge that they have gained with the younger fight­ers getting their first taste of Bengal Bouts. 
"There are no cuts here," Balint said. "There's a natural 
Tech 
continued from page 24 
of coming out on top,.. says 
Hobinson, who needs 23 points 
to become the 33rd player in 
Notre Dame history reach the 
1,000 mark in a career. "We 
will try to stop their guards 
from shooting threes and 
they'll try to stop us inside." 
6-4 senior sharpshooter Joe 

weed-out process that occurs during the first week of train­ing when we show the boxers what is expected of them. But when it comes down to it, we don't make them show up for practice. You get out of it what you put in, so we encourage them to take responsibility for their own success or failure." 
"We do want to see the box­ers improve though," Cane said. "We enjoy seeing a boxer suc­cessfully use a technique we've shown them. You have to be self-motivated to be a boxer, but we stress that if you work together you can enhance your own skills while also helping someone else." 
Balint and Cane may share the same philosophy when it comes to performing their du­ties as Bengal Bout officers but their fighting styles are as dif­ferent as night and day. 
Cane, better known as "Sugar" Cane in the 150-pound boxing division, grabbed his Bengal Bout title last year using his quickness and long reach and plans to utilize these attributes again. 
"I use a Iot of foot move­ment," Cane said. "I try to keep moving around the ring. I'll move in on my opponent, throw three to five punches and then get out. I'm a firm believer that you don't have to go toe to toe 
Fredrick (13.8ppg) and 6-7 freshman forward Monty Williams (7 .8 ppg) should round out the starting lineup for the Irish. 
Notre Dame must bounce back from Wednesday's disap­pointing 63-62 loss to a DePaul team which is also fighting to gain the attention of the NCAA selection committee. The Irish led by as many as 1 7 points in the first half, but they faltered with a fighter to win. 
"I've been boxing since my freshman year and I've never bled. I just use my reach be­cause I usually have a two-inch advantage over my opponent with it and then-do my damage, score points and keep moving away from his punches." 
"Boom-Boom" Balint, who stands at 5-8, but weighs in at 170 pounds, stands in stark contrast. The barrel-chested Balint claimed his title two years ago before being upset last year in the finals and plans to slug it out inside in hopes of regaining his crown. 
"Most of the guys I'll fight will be about 6-2 and have the reach on me," Balint said. "But I don't need to immolate my opponent to win, I just have to score points. So I go into the fight knowing I'm going to give up some points early when my opponent throws his jab, be­cause I have to get inside to do any damage. 
"I work my way in tight and then throw five hard punches to, his body to weaken him. I don't have the kind of quickness Dave has so I keep moving side-to­side and wear my opponent down until he leaves some openings for me to get these short, stubby arms on him." 
Both Balint and Cane are pre­
late in the game and lost on Stephen Howard's dunk at the buzzer. 
"We just didn't do a good job controlling the ball as far as turnovers go, and we didn't do a good job of keeping (DePaul) off the offensive boards. When you have 25 turnovers that ob­viously limits your shot selec­tion," says Phelps. 
Nothing would be more sat­isfying to the Irish than banish-rued majors, with Balint focus­ing on Biology and Cane on Psychology. And they plan to do more than keep these good heads planted firmly on their shoulders. They plan to use them to outsmart their oppo­nents. 

''I've lost 24 pounds to get ready for these fights and I don't plan to lose again in front of my family and friends," Balint said. "I don't plan to disappoint myself or the people pulling for me because I know if I use both strategy and skill I'll win." 
Balint won't be the only Irish boxer hoping to bring home a crown. A slew of former and current champions returns to ring this year, including John Manfredy, who should be a force in the 130-pound division. 
Senior Doug Biolchini will try to win his third Bengal title in the 145-pound division as will fellow sfmior Vance Becklund, who will battle sophomore Mike Trainor in the 162-pound cate­gory in hopes of bringing home the trifecta. 
Sophomores Kerry Wate and Mike O'Neill will be defending their titles at 155 and 180 pounds, respectively, while se­nior Rick Purcell, a walk-on cornerback from the football 
ing the DePaul game out of their minds with a victory over Georgia Tech. 
"We're looking forward to Saturday," says Robinson, "We're back in the same situa­tion that we were in last week at Syracuse (when the Irish upset the Orangemen on a Bennett three-pointer at the buzzer). Our hopes for the tournament are still alive." 
squad, will try to hold on to his 190-pound title. 
And last. but not least, junior Brian "The Cannon" Shannon will try to bring the house to its feet again in the super heavy­weight division. The 6-5, 250­poun<.l offensive guard will get stilT competition this year from senior center Dave Prinzivalli, who is no slouch himself, standing at 6-2, 247 pounds. 
NOTES: The action begins Sunday at the Fieldhouse in the Joyce ACC, with the quarterfinal rounds beginning at 12:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. The semifinals will be at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday and the finals will be at 8 p.m. Friday. Tickets can be pur­chased at the ticket office in the JACC. 
Tickets for ringside seats are $6 Sunday and Wednesday and $8 Friday. Gfmeral admission for the quarter and semifinals will be $4 and $5 for the finals. Tickets can be purchased at the Ticket Office at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. 
Fieldhouse of the Joyce ACC Quarterfinals: Sunday, Feb. 25 at 12:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Semifinals: Wednesday, Feb. 28 at 7:30p.m. Finals: Friday, March 2 at 8 p.m. 


~need someonewith theconfidmreofaSlll'gOOn,thededicationot amarathonerandthe ~ofanexplorer. 
Wt ncc:d 1 Puce Corp~ o,olunlttr Call u1 aii-I00-4l4-8S80, Ex I. 9l 


HEY EVERYBODY! 
Join IRISH INSANITY in supporting NOTRE DAME HOCKEY in the final home game for seniors: 
LANCE MADSON TIM KUEHL KEVIN MARKOVITZ MIKE LEHERR BRUCE GUAY 

on Saturday FEB 24 at 7:30 pm after MEN'S BASKETBALL WRECKS TECH! 
AND on Sunday FEB 25 IRISH WRESTLING hosts DEFENDING NCAA CHAMP IOWA at 7:30 pm in the JACC ARENA 
GO IRISH ••II 
Friday, February 23, 1990 The Observer page 19 
Breen-Phillips wins lnterhall crown 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ByRICHKURZ would have the whole game. 
B.P. showed that they too

Sports Writer 
could go on a run. A pair of 

How even was the women's free throws late in the third interhall final? Both teams en­quarter sparked an eight to tered the championship game three run that put B.P. up 24­with identical 6-1 records, and 21 partway through the fourth after 32 minutes of action, in­quarter. cluding five lead changes and P.E. wasn't about to give up eight ties, the teams were still yet, though. They fought back knotted at 25-25. to take a 25-24 lead, and had a 
But when Lora Mangan hit a chance to go up by three with short jumper with four seconds 15 seconds left, but a fast­left in overtime, Breen-Philips break opportunity resulted in beat Pasquerilla East 29-27 to tragedy when P.E. guard Rachel win the women's interhall bas­Crossen, leading the break, had ketball championship, the first her knee give out on her and time they had done so after lost control of the ball. She had reaching the finals the last four to leave the court and was years and coming up short each eventually taken to the hospital. time. After a long delay to help her 
P.E. 
had a chance to win the off the court, B.P. called a time­game in the last seconds, but a out with 11 seconds left in reg­40-foot heave that somehow ulation, down by one. B.P. in­found its way into the basket bounded the ball, and a few came a second too late, as the seconds later point guard Carol final whistle had just blown. Elliott was fouled. 

"I was nervous on the first 


P.E. 
opened the game with a shot, but not on the second," quick hoop, but B.P. recovered she said after the game. Her to build a three-point lead be­first shot bounced off the rim, fore P.E. went on a 5-0 run to but she didn't let her team­regain the lead at 9-7 midway mates down with her next shot. through the second quarter. It was string music all the way, The Blitz regained their compo­and she had earned her team sure soon enough to forge a another chance for the win. 12-12 tie going into halftime. 


The shooting cooled off in The teams traded baskets the third quarter after both early in the overtime, and after teams had scored one basket misses by each team, B.P. found apiece. It took five possessions itself in possession of the ball each before either team could with just seconds remaining. BP manage another bucket. P.E. called time-out, and Coach Jeff then scored off two steals to Heilert designed a play. "It was take a four point lead, 18-14, just a clear-out working this the largest lead either team side [the leftl of our offense," 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 




TONITE LIVE ... PHOENIX SATURDAY MISFITS -N-DJ's 
he said. B.P. inbounded the ball Bookstore Basketball signups will be from 1 to 4 p.m.
and got it to Mangan, who then Sunday in the Great Hall of O'Shag. The fee is $5.
hit the game-winner. Both coaches were pleased 
~omen's Bookstore Basketball signups and registration
with the play of their teams Will be Monday, March 26, 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room atafter the game. P.E. Coach Ray LaFortune. A SMC location and time for that date to beFlannery complimented the vic­announced.
tors after the game. "They (B.P.) get credit. They hustled 
Notre Dame lacrosse will hold two scrimmages Sunday atand played well as a team," he Loftus. The Irish will meet Lake Forest at 12:30 andsaid. "We were ready emotion­Michigan State at 2:00 p.m. Admission is free.
ally. We played hard and hus­tled. There's no more you can 
Notre Dame will play Georgia Tech on Saturday in men'sask for," he said of his team. 
basketball. Some tickets had listed the game as Sunday.
"We knew it would be close," said B.P. 's Lora Mangan. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer inBoth Mangan and B.P. cap­Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs willtain Christine Churchill were be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length.
quick to praise their coaches. 
Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than"We have the best coaches in two times.
the world," they said. Overall both teams deserve 
credit. Basketball games don't get much better than this. The 
Douglas will get $25 million 
level of intensity could not have been greater had the game been 
for matchup with Holyfield
for the NCAA championship, LAS VEGAS (AP) -Buster just looks at him and says, 'Youand tomorrow is sure to find 
Douglas will make $25 million got it."'
several players with sore knees. 
to fight Evander Holyfield and By agreeing to the purse de­the result of numerous dives to anot~er $35 million for a po-mands, Wynn sewed up thethe hardwood in pursuit of tential rematch with Mike fight for his new $640 millionloose balls. 
Tyson under a deal with casino resort and kept Douglas andA vocal and rather large mogul Steve Wynn. Johnson from planned negotia­crowd obviously enjoyed the Douglas also will get an op-tions scheduled for next weekgame, and definitely spurred tion to buy 100,000 shares of with billionaire Donald Trump.
both teams on. "We had excel­Golden Nugget Inc. stock as Holyfield has yet to agree tolent crowd support,"said Coach part of a package deal with terms, but his manager. KenFlannery. "That's more fans Wynn t_o host the two fights at Sanders, said Thursday that he
they we had at my men's 
The Mirage resort, promoter is willing to begin negotiationsgame." 
~ob Ar~m said Thursday. Wynn with The Mirage after beingIn the earlier game, for the B 1s chairman of the Golden told the hotel is prepared to of­league championship, Siegfried Nugget, which operates The fer Holyfield "more than he hasran away with the game as they 
Mirage. been offered for any otherdefeated the graduate team. 
The deal was struck Tuesday, bout."
BTTCG, 28-18, to claim the Arum said, when Wynn gave Most boxing observers believechampionship. 
Douglas and his manager, John Holyfield, the No. 1 contender, Johnson, everything they de-would get $9-10 million for the manded in a meeting that fight. lasted only five minutes. Both of Douglas' purses
Research works. 
"I've never seen anything like would top the record payout of it in my life," Arum said. "I nearly $21 million that Tyson coached the guy (Johnson) be-got for fighting Michael SpinksAmerican Heart 
fore the meeting and told him in June 1988, although the $35 to ask for 25 for the first fight million for the Tyson fight is L-_...:::....
___________J and 35 for the second. Wvnn contingent on Douglas beating 
Association 

SOVIET UNION 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 
Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
Holyfield to retain the heavy­weight title. 
The deal would be void if Douglas is not able to get out of his promotional contract with promoter Don King, now the subject of lawsuits in both Las Vegas and New York. 
Wynn and Johnson declined comment Thursday on the terms of the agreement, but boxing analysts said the hotel operator stands to lose millions on the Douglas-Holyfield fight and has only an outside chance of making money on a Tyson­Douglas rematch. 
But the exposure for the hotel -and Wynn's oft-stated desire to be a major player in the boxing business -apparently played the deciding edge in the huge offer. 
"I don't see it as a big fight," said Rick Kulis, whose Choice 
Entertainment is a major han­
************************************* dler of pay-per-view promo­
-

tions. "These dollars are totally
! DI51111GUI5HED 51UDEIII AIMAAD ! out with I
of whack reality. 

think Mr. Wynn is just playing a* * game with Donald Trump to 
show him who has got the big­
* 1 The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations * 
ger bankroll."
* until February 28 for the 9th Annual Distinguished Student Award. * Even Arum, who claims to have a handshake deal to han­
* The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an * 
dle the undercard and market* outstanding senior student at the University based on the * the pay-per-view rights, said he doesn't understand the eco­
* following criteria: * 
nomics. "I'll help him cut down the
* * 
losses as much as possible, but
* 1) Service to Notre Dame1 * 
I'm doing this for a fee and not** 2) Service to Community1 and ** a percentage," Arum said. 
"This fight is guaranteed to
* 3) Academic Good Standing. * 
lose a lot of money." Arum said for Wynn to even 
* *
* Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on * approach breaking even on the 
Douglas-Holyfield fight it
* the second floor of the Main Building, The Center for Social Concerns, * 
would have to be the biggest
* and at the Campus Ministry Office in the Hesburgh Memorial Library. * grossing fight in history. The 
previous biggest fight is be­lieved to be the Tyson-Spinks
* *
! Nominations must be submitted to the Association by February 28, 1990. ! bout, followed closely by the 
1987 Sugar Ray Leonard­
Marvelous Marvin Hagler fight.
************************************* 
~..&~....--~..--~..........................~------~-------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 20 
Iowa 

continued from page 24 
Radenbaugh is eighth in the 118-pound bracket. 
The Irish also have a 30­match winner in 167-pound Mark Gerardi and two other wrestlers with 20 wins in 126­pound Marcus Gowens and 150-pound Todd Layton. 
"I think we can match up pretty well with them," McCann said. "We'll be tough with them in four or five weight classes." 
McCann likes the way his team looks in practice heading into the final dual matches of the season. Notre Dame wres­tles at Illinois on Wednesday to close the regular season, then head to the NCAA Western Re­gionals on March 10 at Charleston. Ill. 
"They're looking pretty good and working hard." McCann said. "The enthusiasm is really high. They're anxious for the dual matches to get out of the way, so they can get ready for the big tournaments to begin." 
McCann sensed that attitude in last weekend's uninspired 25-6 win over a lightly-re­garded Ohio University team. 
"They came in with the idea that we're going to win. and they did just enough to get by," McCann said. "I don't really like that. I like for them to go out with enthusiasm and dominate people, and they didn't show that (against Ohio). I hope it's different this week against Iowa. and it had better be be­cause like I said earlier this week, we're not wrestling Ohio University this weekend." 
Friday, February 23, 1990
The Observer 

Men's tennis team prepares to face tough Gopher squad 
positive mental outlook. ''I'm optimistic about this match, but I'm cautious," said assis­tant coach Brian Kalbas. "They're very talented, and it's tough to play them away. We'll have to play our best match of the season." 
Key to the Irish hopes is the play of senior team captain Walter Dolhare, of Buenos Aires, Argentina, and sopho­more David DiLucia, of Norristown, Pennsylvania. Yet as a whole, the Notre Dame team is very well-balanced. "If someone has a bad day, the next person has a good day, and takes the burden off of him," noted coach Bob Bayliss. 
Six of Notre Dame's next eight matches will come against teams ranked among the top 25 in the nation including Minnesota, Oklahoma, and Duke. Yet the rigorous schedule is part of Bayliss' master plan for a post-season appearance in the NCAA tourney. "I'm looking forward to this mateh ­this is what we want," ex­claimed Bayliss. "Our guys keep coming up with superhuman ef­forts, and I will ask tlwm to do it one more time." 
VVhere the season is con­
cerned, things have certainly 
gone the right way for the 
Irish. 
"I think we've played well." continued Bayliss. "We've been relatively injury free, and we've managed to win the close matches that simply must be won in order to have a good season." 


By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team will be looking for a com­bination of hard work, perse­verance, and a little luck of the Irish as it heads to the University of Minnesota this weekend for a showdown with a Golden Gopher team ranked 25th in the country. 
In its quest of an NCAA tour­nament bid, Notre Dame has recorded several convincing victories in matches against top-notch opponents, including Ball State, ranked third in Notre Dame's region of compe­tition. 
Yet Minnesota, ranked second in the region, has several astonishing wins to its credit as well, including a triumph over the Crimson Tide of Alabama. ranked #10 in the nation. As if that was not enough of a challenge, the Golden Gophers are perennially tough to play at home in Minneapolis. 
"Minnesota is an excellent 
team with a lot of depth," noted 
Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. 
"They have good doubles 
tandems, and the competition 
should be terrific for us. We 
need to play very well against 
them. not only because of the 
talent they possess, but because 
of the big crowds. These 
matches are a big deal in 
Minneapolis." 
Despite the challenge which 
looms on the horizon, the Irish 
refuse to abandon their careful, 
I 
Women's Care Center ] 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER 



FREE Pregnancy Tests FREE Confidential, Individual & Couple Counseling 

is currently accepting applications for the 
FREE Referral to Sipport Agencies FREE Confidential Care 

following position: 
Medical Referral Service Post Abortion Counseling 

Assistant News Editor 
1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 

To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
24 HOUR HELPLINE 

statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley 
234-0363 

Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
WE WELCOME VOLUNTEERS 


TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
\YAYJ\Yl[F~ 

is accepting applications for the 1990-'91 Station Manager. Submit a personal statement including your qualifications to the station manager's mailbox in the studio (suite 200, LaFortune) by midnight, Sunday, February 25th. 
wvr;a, 
The========64Voice of the Fighting Irish 
-
--------------------------------------------~·------------­
Friday, February 23, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Irish meet Dearbornas season winds to a close
Notre Dame 

By CHRIS COONEY 

Weekend 
Sports Writer 

Sports 
Seniors on the Notre Dame hockey team will play their final home game this Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in the second part of an home-away series with rival 
Friday 

Women's tennis 
Michigan-Dearborn. Although the Irish (17 -13) soundly beat the Wolves earlier this season, 

vs. Illinois. 6 p.m., Eck 
Tennis Pavilion 
the match-up promises to be in­
tense and hard fought.
Saturday 
Mike Hunitz, Assistant Coach 

Indoor Track 
at Michigan-Dearborn, ex­

hosting the Alex Wilson 
plained that although the

Invitational. 10:30 a.m., 
Wolves (21-11-1) have no 

Loftus. 
chance of post-season competi­tion, the team is excited to have another shot at defeating the

Women's tennis 
Irish. 

vs. Kansas (1 0 a.m.) and 
"These are our final two games of the season--win, lose or draw," said Hunitz, whose team will host the Irish Friday 

Drake (5 p.m.), Eck. 
Men's basketball 
night. "Normally it might be 

vs. Georgia Tech. 4 p.m., 
difficult to get pumped up for them. The <llseNerI SrottMcCam
Joyce ACC Arena. 
"But we won't have any trou­The Notre Dame hockey team meets Michigan-Dearborn in a home-and-away series this weekend. The Irish ble getting psyched this week­play in Michigan tonight and then r.eturn to the Joyce ACC arena on Saturday. 
Hockey 
end, since it's Notre Dame." 

The two teams have a fierce rivalry. Last year Michigan­Despite the defeats, Irish who as team captain will be 24 assists for 43 points. In goal 
vs. Michigan-Dearborn. 
7:30p.m., Joyce ACC Rink. 
Dearborn took five-of-six from head coach Ric Schafer con­participating in his last home for the Wolves will be either the Irish. In the matchups this tends that his squad is far from game, leads Notre Dame in as­Dave Church or Brad Kippe. year, the checking has been down. sists with 27. His 14 goals The two have split playing time rough, leading to a few brawls. "Sure, we don't like to lose," place him second on the Irish with Church appearing in 23
Sunday 

Women's tennis 
Schafer remarked, "but it's a scoring list with 41 points. games for an 11-8-1 record 
vs. Miami, Ohio. 9 a.m., Eck. 
"They are really a physical consolation when you play "We need to play good, sound and a 3.90 goals against aver­team," claimed Irish center Pat pretty good hockey and come hockey," Schafer forecasted. age. Kippe holds a 3.10 goals­
Wrestling 
Arendt. "We'll have to come out up short." "We don't plan on any tricks against average while going 7­
vs. Iowa. 7:30 p.m., Joyce 
hitting right away and show Leading Notre Dame as usual but will need consistent execu­2. 
ACC Arena 
that we're ready to play." will be the trio of sophomores tion of the fundamentals of 
The Wolves have gone 4-3 in Dave Bankoske and Lou Zadra, hockey." "We've been playing them for their last seven games, includ­and senior Tim Kuehl. a number of years," said ing 7-5 and 8-1 losses to Lake Bankoske tops the Irish roster Michigan-Dearborn is led in Schafer, explaining the rivalry. Forest last weekend. Notre in goals and total points with scoring by Larry Piluel who has "They are an upstart program
Am.erican+ Dame is coming off back-to­27 and 50, respectively. Zadra 30 goals and 42 assists on the just like us. Last year was their hack losses as well, falling to has exploded recently for 14 year. Following him, Dave year, but we'd really like to win 
Red Cross 
St. Cloud State, 7-3 and 3-2 . goals and 18 assists. Kuehl, O'Kraigley adds 19 goals and our final games of the season." 
~ ~ / ~ / "" "' , , , "' , , , "' , , , "' , , "' , , "' , , , "' , , "' "' , , , , "' "' "' , , , , "' , , , "' , "' , , , , , , , "' , , , "' "' , , , , , "' , "' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , "' "' "' "' ,
'n, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
,~~~, ,~,
"' "'"'"''"'"''"'~~/ {0~///~// ~~//~///~~/// ,~,,,,
-

, / / / / / / / /// 
' 0' ' " 0' ' ' ' ' ' 
' ' '\,; ' .,JI ... ~
~ '~ ~ ~ ~ '~~' ~ ~ ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ... ~ ~ ~ ~ '"~ ~ ~ '~ ~ ~ ~ ~'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,,,,~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ea ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ',-' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 'not'' ' ' ' ' ' '*f~ ' ' ,' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,' ' ' ' ,' ' ' ' ' 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ~ ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ~ ' ~ ' 
' ',/'' ' '~ ' '~ ' '~ ' '~ ' ',/'' ' ' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' '~ ' OE~1NYRNED' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 'tN' ' ' 'HDIOt"' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' '~ '~ ',/'' ',/''~ ',/'"' ' '~ ' '~ '~ ',/'' ',/'"""' ' ' '~ '~ '
~, ~, ~ ,/' ~ ~ ',/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/'' ' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ~ 
,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ 
''''''''''''''''''''''''''' ' ' ' ' ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ~ ' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~
,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' 
,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 'BS ' , , , ' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' 
~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
~~~~~~.~.~~~~~~~~/ / / / /~/ / /,.~ / / / ""' "~"," -',/ ~~~~/ /'/ / /---~;.;.~,~~~~.:.~~~~~~/ /~~~~;~;~;~;~
/ / / -,V/'9Jln~/iJy,al~/~"'"",.&/ ~~~~~IIJVH'~ /'1t*,a~/'~/T'7/"!";T~ ~ 7~ / /" 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '~~~~~ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '~~ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '~,/'' ' ' ' ' ' '/ ' ' ' 
~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ; ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ~ ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' , ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , .1' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
.1 / .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' / / .1' .1' / / / / ,/' .1' / .1' .1' / .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' ,/' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' ~ / .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' I .1' .1' / .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' I .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' / 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
.1' .1' / , / .1' / / .1' .1' / 1 .1' / I .1' .1' ~ .1' I I .1' .1' ~ ~ I ~ .1' ~ I / ~ / .1' / .1' ~ ~ / .1' .1' .1' / .1' / I / I .1' I / I .1' I I I I .1' I ~ ~ I / .1' I I I .1' .1' I .1' I I I / .1' I I I I .1' I / , / .1' I ~ .1' ~ ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/', , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/'W$;',~, ' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
, ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,~,, ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , 
' ' ' ' ',',' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ',' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,~, ' ' ' ' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/'c;•'' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/', , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ' ' , ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ',' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ,',' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' 
,',/'',/'',/'',',',',',',/'',/'~ , ,',/'',/'',',',',',',',',',/'',/'',/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~',',',',',',',',',',','.1'',/'',',',',',',',',',',',',','
,/' ,,/' ,/' , , , ., ,,/' ., ,., ., ,,/' , , , , ,/' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,. , , , ,/' , ,/' , ,/' u·/ ,/' ,,/' , , ,/' , , , , , , , , , ,/' , , , , , , , , , , 
,~ --~ /~,, , ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
.1'.1'/.1'/.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1' ~~,/' ,,,,,,,,,,, .1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'~.1'.1'~,,,,,,.1',.1'/.1'.1'.1' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,~, ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 'f)i:C''~' ....0' 0~ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ~ 
.1'/.1'.1'.1'.1'/.1'.1'.1'.1'.1' '.1' /.l'.l'/.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'/.1'.1'.1'.1'/.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l',/'///.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'l.l'/.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'/.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l'.l' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
,/', ~ ,/' ,/', ,/',, ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ' ' ..., ' ' ' ' ' Mao' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/'
,/',/',/',/',/',/',/',:.Chief~ ~,/' ~,,, 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ',/'' ',/'' ' ' ' ' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/',,' ' ' ',/',' ...mess/ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/'' ',/',' ' ',/'' ',/'' ',/',' ' 
''''''''''' ' ~ '''''''''''' ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
, ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' / ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , 
.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'/.l'.l'.l'/.1'.,,,,,,.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1',,,,,,.1'~~.1',
,,~C'"''~,/',/'/;.,/'.I'/.1'.1'.1'.1'/.1'.1'~.1',,,,,,,
' , , , , , , , , , , ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ~ ' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , .a , ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
lURO'ft: ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
,~,t!!'E~' ~ 
',',,,',',',,,,,',,,' ,/' ' ' ,",',',.1',.1''.1''/'.1''.1''/'.1''.1''.1''.1''.1'~ , ' ~~~11~ ,',,,,,',,,',~,,,",,,',',,,',',,, ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' , ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ,/' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' , ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' '
, , ,/' ,/' ' ~ ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ',' ~ ' ,/' ','"'' ~ ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' "' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' "' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' , , , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/',,,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',',',',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,. ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ', ,/' '
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ',' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ',' ~ ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ' 
,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,. ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ~ , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ~ ' ',' ,/' ' ~ ' ' ~ ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ~ ' ' ' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ~ ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' ,/' ' ' 
';Sltlmtit~~~resume~nctirO-v_er;Jewer:;~ta'"-.."~ '/our;..~~~cat'iO.DS;.:;~;:;~;:;~;:;~;~;~;~
'''''''' ''''''' '~~'~'' '' 
/Ad~//~;:~,,,,,,.,, ''''''''''''''''''' t"~k" //StUd"'' , , , , ,~/ '''''"1/''/·tt,''' //:Om',/',.,/'' '~~~'''/~na·,. , , , "Mar/'' ''''''"m/ /~,, '' '''''''', , ,/',, ,/',
' a ' ' ,..... ........_' "6. ~'+ ' 'lA+ ~· ~~ ~A.' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
, ~ , •••,..aaa, ~' ~•.., ._.._., ...,.. ~m', .,.;;, , ,_ ,/' . ' '-.,,',',",...,",", 
/ / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
/.,./ / /~'/
"'' ,/' '"'' ~ ' ,' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,', ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ' 
, ' / ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' ~ ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' ~ ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' ~ ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' ~ ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' ~ ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' / ' / ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' I ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' .1' ' / ' .1' ' ./ ' / ' / .1' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' .1' ' ' .1' ' ' / ' ' .1' ' ' / ' ' '.1' ' ' ~~ ' ' ' .1' ' ' .1' ' ' .1' ' ' .1' ' ' .1' ' ' ' ' ' ' / ' ' / ' ' .1' ' '
.I'D'" .1' / .1' .1' .1' .1' ~·I/ .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .!'..... .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' / .1' .1' .1' .1' .1' ~w_.,L .1' / .1' "U~v.;;;;..l' .1' .1' ~ .1' .I .1' .1' / .1' ' / .1' .1' .1' .1' ///I .1' ./ / .1'
7

~J~~~,,..·_.~,~~~'.ft':qt;'S~j~lj~'~O:~iS~'~~~JWjj ~4'S~~~'~b'ri~'''' '' '''''' 
,~,:' ,/,'' ,/:' ~''' '/':'' '~/~' ,',','' '/'' '/~ '/'~'/' ,',', ,7~ '/'7'' ,-,' ,-,-~' '~' , , '''' ,", ~ ,~~/,',' ,',', '/'''' '/~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/Rti/ /"' //~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/'
~/ ~ J' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , / ,/' ~ , ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , 
' !a~ '-.t ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
; ,/' ,/', ,/' ,/' ~ ,~, ,'~ ,/' ,/' ~ ;~'~';';'~';';';'~'~';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';';'
,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',', ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ~ ' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ',',',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' / ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' '
"' 

' 
,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',',',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ~ ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ',' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,. ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,. ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ~ ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' , ,/' ,/' ,/' ,/' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
,/',/',/' .1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'~.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'/.1'//,/'.l'.l',/'.l'//,/'.l'.l'.l' .1'.1'.1'.1'/.1'//.1'.1' ,/',/',/',/',/',/' ,,, ,/',/',/',/'~,/',/',/',/',/' .1'.1'.1'.1'/.1'.1'.1'.1'.1'.1' 
/ / 
' ' ' 

~--------­
Friday, February 23, 1990

page 22 The Observer 
Fencers defend their sport against ridicule, opponents 
"Sport. Such an activity requiring more or less vigor­ous body exertion and carried on according to some tradi­tirmal form or set of rules, whether outdoors...or in­
doors." CHRIS FILLIO No one is really sure what 
Sports Writer 
sports Noah Webster lettered in during his collegiate days, but he is certainly undisputed as one of the pioneers in the establishment of the English language. A man of many words. Millions. 
At the very base of any sport is competition. Ath­letes pitted against one another, whether individu­ally or in teams, in contests of skill and knowledge. 
In the sport of fencing-and it is a sport, for those who don't know (in fact, one of the original Olympic eventsl-the very heart and soul of competition is borne out of the athlete. Hours of practice and preparation weigh on the shoulders of a single per­son, with no coaches or teammates to aid the en­deavor. 

In such an atmosphere of intense athletic compe­tition, the Irish fencing squads have climbed moun­tains, crossed valleys, and navigated deep waters in becoming one of the best college teams in the nation. Consistently. 
"These kids really work hard to be their best," Irish head coach Mike DeCicco said, "and it's a shame that they don't get the recognition and re­spect that they deserve. These are athletes in their truest forms, and it's such a credit that they are al­ways among the tops in the nation." 
For those who are still doubting Thomases, the Notre Dame fencing squads will be competing this Saturday in the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse, beginning at 
9:00 a.m., in their only home meet of the season. Half of the split squad will travel for dual meet ac­tion in Rutgers, N.J., to wrap up the season. 
Some of the top fencers will make the roadtrip in an effort to establish a good credit rating with some of the best Eastern schools, including Yale, Rutgers and Princeton. The women will also square off against traditional powerhouse Farleigh Dickinson. 
In the home meet, the Irish will take on Michigan State, Eastern Michigan, Lawrence, Purdue and Mi­ami (Ohio). In addition, Saint Mary's College will 
field a team against MSU, Lawrence, Miami and 
EMU. 

"Our women's team is ready for this wePkend, " said DeCicco. "They know that FDU and Yale are strong and perhaps are standing in their way of the national title. That should provide plenty of incen­tive." 
Indeed, the women will put their win streak on the line as they will send four to Rutgers, but keep enough talent at home to finish off competitors at hand. 
Likewise, the men will operate with split squads this weekend. Despite illness to Noel Young and Dave Calderhead, along with recovering sabreman Dan Yu, the Irish will boast complete squads in all 
weapons. 

"Almost all of those East Coast teams will have full [four-squad! teams at the NCAA's," said DeCi­cco. "Being undefeated against them could hopefully place us high in the NCAA seedings. But first we will have to beat these teams this weekend. That is our 
immediate priority." 
A good showing should give the Irish the proper impetus to propel them into next weekend's Great Lakes Regional Championships in Appleton, Wise. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
"If you could go to a top four basketball game, wouldn't you go?" 
This rhetorical question by indoor track coach Joe Piane is an attempt to pinpoint the rea­son why people will be flocking to Notre Dame's Meyo track for the Alex Wilson Invitational on Saturday. 
The trite basketball analogy is appropriate because some of the best indoor track competi­tors in the country will be at­tending to try to qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
The distance runners like the Meyo track because it is the largest collegiate indoor track in the country, and the broader turns of the track increase the possibility for better times. 
The sprinters are drawn to the Meyo because of the state­of-the-art surface of the track. 
They're certainly not coming for the sun. 
One thing everyone will be coming for is the competition. Indoor track powerhouses such as Arkansas, Villanova, Georgetown, Penn State, Arizona, North Carolina and North Carolina State will be joining Notre Dame in this ex­hibition of athletic talent. The national scope of competition ranks among the broadest Notre Dame has ever hosted. 


top athletes are going to be there. People who go are going to get the opportunity to see some great talent in indoor track." 

GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road ··Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 

~------------T------------~
: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : 
: $899 sa;i~~er : 99¢. : 
I For I I I Piclc any two Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I I two Garden Salads, plus your choice of I receive a second one of the I 
I French Fnes or Onton Rmgs and 2 1 · f 99 1 
Mmi-Sundaes. same stze or • l Expires 3/6/90. I Expires 3/6/90. I 
L. 

------------~~-----~-----~ 
NBA players face 
players, including Chuck Person of Indiana and Bernard King of 

I he CbserverI File Photo 
Scott Vandenberg and the Notre Dame track and field team host the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Meyo Track on Saturday. The event features one of the most nationally representative fields ever to compete at Notre Dame. 

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 
Friday, February 23, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORD
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Yankee Pot Roast Chicken Tetrazzini Mushroom Stroganoff Law School Grill 

49 A Neptune neighbor 51 Take on 521n­(positioned) 56 Potato or carrot 57 How to make a tortoise capsize 59 Cather's "One of " so Eras 61 Solo 62 Boise's county 63 Garden plot 64 Ice-cream holders 
DOWN 
1 Pier of a sort 2 Noisome 3 Radial, e.g. 4 Feudal serf 5 It crosses the 
bar 
25 Bart or Brenda 21 Ratite bird 30 Imitates a 
partridge 33 Ornamentations 
on costumes 35 Spouse 37 Mounted 38 More 
cantankerous 40 Fries, in a way 41 But, to 
Britannicus 42 Finished 44 Fallen into 
disuse: Abbr. 45 Part of St. 
Patrick's Cathedral 47 Soft mineral 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DAD, II= '{0\J 1\iRE'f.J 
('. S~CAA~\.l.. 1\1 
9Jt>\EOWC., BVT D£.l\B£RAID.'I fiiiSStll, WOULD 1\lt..T -..-~ 
B£. "BNJ? 
1'\0, 1'101 THAT BP-.0, SUPI'OS£ 8\JT ~£ l1111N '(QIJ JUST II= 'iO\l 1-tf...Ot\1 GRA'Z£P T\\RO~N II t-.1 ill. Til£ 1'£~ 
1-\GW Bt-.0 WOIJU> 
TIIAT B£? 
BILL WATTERSON 
'fl£U., l S\Jf'?<Y5£ rn~T 'flO\llD BE \>RQ'/0\(\NG, SO iES, 11 'NO\JLO BE f.. LimE ~0. 

6Arcana 7 Chills and fever 8 Tar 9 How to make 
rural crossings subway entrances 
10 Leave out 
one B::':-F-+.::-1 16 Meadow -=+::~~ 20 How to make a jacket for a traitor 
GARY LARSON 
THE FAR SIDE 


1-:+=+::-t=+=:-1 11 Oz dog E+=+=:::-F.i:F--t;:;iiilllllll 13 Omits 

21 How to make a cricket series a dessert 22 Unrefined  29 Employs 30 Certain U.S.N. men 31 Loser of a fabled  48 Confederate immortal 49 Outrigger of Malay 50 Stentorian  
23 How to make  race  51 Immense  
more or less a traffic circle  32 Net 34 Chow  52 W.W. II battle site  
24Comedian Johnson 26 River on  36 Cincy player 39Abed  53 Mashie or niblick 54 Melody 55 Western Indians  
Paraguay's  43 Repairs socks  57 Bill  
border  46 Members of an  58 Varnish  
28 Ancient Iranian  A.B.A.  ingredient  
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  


ACROSS 
1 Following 6 Droop 9 Baby 
12 Clamorous 13 Mariposa lily 
14 Japanese wrestling 
15 How to make a belt catch a rod tightener 
17 Review: Colloq. 18 Toward shelter, 
at sea 19 Gael's republic 20 Lone Ranger's 
sidekick 21 Record 22 Severs 23 Kind of cross 


Sports
24 

Irish attempt to sting Yellowjackets 
Phelps' squad to face Georgia Tech's potent backcourt 
fide player of the year candi­when he drives to the basket,
By KEN TYSIAC 

date. and Anderson has lived up and has added a whole new di­
Sports Writer 

to his preseason billing as the mension to the Irish offense in best freshman in the country by averaging 13.7 points over the The Notre Dame men's dishing out 9.0 assists per past nine games. basketball team will face a game while playing point If the Yellowjackets, who are 
must-win situation once again guard. Oliver, a 6-4 senior. coached by Bobby Cremins, this weekend when the eighth­earns his keep by lurking in the have a weakness, it is in the ranked Georgia Tech shadow of his backcourt mates frontcourt, where 6-10 fresh­Yellowjackets visit the Joyce and slashing toward the basket man Malcolm Mackey (7. 9 ppg, ACC Saturday at 4 p.m. when opponents concentrate on 7.3 rpg) and 6-9 senior Johnny 
It won't be easy for the Irish, stopping Scott and Anderson. McNeil (5.5 ppg, 4.5 rpg) will 
who enter the game on the "(We'll) just hope that Scott attempt to control the boards. NCAA Tournament bubble at has an off-day, Anderson Mackey and McNeil will at­14-9. Coach Digger Phelps and doesn't get hot and Oliver just tempt to slow down the power­his squad face the unenviable doesn't like cold weather." ful Irish inside, but it won't be task of stopping the muses Phelps. "They're very easy. 6-9 Sophomore forward Yellowjacket starting backcourt good. I just think we'll have to LaPhonso Ellis (15.2 ppg, 12.6 of Dennis Scott, Brian Oliver play a perfect game defensively. rpg) and 6-9 senior center and Kenny Anderson which may I think we can't let them get Keith Robinson (14.3 ppg, 7.5 bn the best in the country. into a rhythm. It's obvious that rpg) have been dominant on the Scott (2R.5 points per game), they're very, very explosive of­boards as of late. and Notre Olivnr (21. 9 ppg) and Anderson · fnnsively with that type of lire­Dame will probably try to dump 
(20.2 ppg) all average over 20 power." the ball down low to them early 
points per contest for Georgia The Irish have been getting and often. Tech. which boasts a 19-5 some stellar backcourt play "If we do a good job of stop­record aftt>r Thursday night's themselves from sophomore ping them and we start scoring 
73-71 loss to ACC rival point guard Elmer Bennett. inside, we have a good chance Virginia. Bennett is adept at shooting the 
see TECH I page 18
Scott. a (,-s junior, is a bona ball as well as dumping it off 

The Observer 1John Studebaker Elmer Bennett, who scored 18 points in Notre Dame's 63-62 loss to DePaul on Tuesday, leads the Irish against eighth-ranked Georgia Tech Saturday at 4 p.m. 
Women fight for NCAA bid despite several key injuries 
When the Notre Dame No, repudiation of gender 
women's basketball team roles hasn't hit the team. 
plays on the road, they have Injuries have. The team only 
a tendency to surprise has eight players, so the stu­
observers who see them dent managers and assistant 
during their walk-throughs. coaches step in to run the 
plays. 


"They're pretty good." Irish head coach Muffet McGraw says. "They're really strong and quick, and it's been a big help. The coaches play, too. I don't know where we'd be without 
(assistant coach) Sandy 
Botham. We're fortunate 
that we haven't gotten
THERESA KELLY 

desperate enough to use me. Sports Editor I don't think they want a pregnant woman out there." McGraw's baby is due in 
May. Playing with only eight There are guys practicing players isn't an ideal with the team. situation. but McGraw and Isn't that against some her squad have taken sort of NCAA by-law or something? see HOOPS I page 17 
Wrestlers battle 3rd-ranked Iowa 
is enough to be beneficial for "This n~ally isn't a good time
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

them. to get Iowa because tlwy mally 
Associate Sports Editor 

"Late last spring we got a call prime for the Big Ten and saying they'd like to play us and NCAA tournaments," McCann 
In some respects, the Notre would be willing to come here. I said. "I knew that wlwn I Dame wrestling team will have nearly fell off the chair." schedul1~d thnm, but I didn't earned a victory even before it As difficult as it may be to care. I just wanted to have takes to the Joyce ACC mat schedule the Hawkeyes, it is a them on the sdwdule." Sunday night. much more difficult task to de­This year's team has contin­
The 24th-ranked Fighting feat them. Iowa's only three ued in that tradition, as Pight Irish {6-7) are facing third­blemishes this season have Iowa wrestlers are ranked in ranked Iowa (18-2-1) 7:30 come in losses to top-ranked the top 12 nationally in their Sunday in the Joyce ACC, in a Oklahoma State and a tie with wPight class. matchup Notre Dame coach second-ranked Arizona State. Nationally-ranked Iowa Fran McCann has been trying Iowa fell to Oklahoma State for wrestlers include 134-pounder to schedule for two years. the second time this season in a Ton Brands (first), 190-pound 
McCann realizes that the fact tight 19-18 match. Brooks Simpson (third), 126­Iowa, the school with the most "One of those three teams will pound Terry Brands and wrestling tradition in the na­win the NCAA championship heavyweight John Ostendorp tion, would agree to face the this year, depending on who (both fourth), 118-pound Steve Irish is indicative of how far has the hot tournament," Martin (fifth). 150-pound Doug the Notre Dame program has McCann said. Streicher (sixth) and 142­come in the last several years. Under legendary coach Dan pound Troy Steiner and 167­
"It's tough to get on their Gable, the Hawkeyes dominated pound Bart Chelesvig (both sev­schedule because of the limita­collegiate wrestling for the last enth). tion on dates and the fact they 15 years. After taking its first Notre Dame has two have to face their traditional NCAA title in 197 5, Iowa took wrestlers ranked nationally. rivals both inside and outside the crown every year from 1978 Pat Boyd is third in the 142­the Big Ten," McCann said. to 1986. The Hawkeyes have pound division, while Andy "They don't wrestle anyone un­won 16 consecutive Big Ten less they think the competition championships. see IOWA I page 20 
Captains are ready to battle in Bengal Bouts on Sunday 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
"People like "Nappy"
Assistant Sports Editor 

Napolitano and our coaches like Sean McCormick, Jack "Strong bodies light that the "Tiger" Mooney and Walt weak may be nourished." Hogers have pushed us to be­
For 60 years this has been come more than better boxers." the motivation for Notre Balint said. "We know our main Dame's Bengal Bouts which job is to raise money for the raise money for the Holy Cross Bengladesh Missions." Missions in Bangladesh. "We raise about $25-30,000 a 
This year, two South Bend year. but most of that money is products-Chris Balint and already spent by the missions David Cane-will lead the 110-by the time we get it," Cane man field into the ring for the added. "They count on that 60th time since former Irish money when they do their bud­football coach Knute Rockne gets because they depend on it started the Bouts hoping to to handle to problem of flood­keep his players in shape in the ing and shortages of food, shel­off-season. ter and clothing in that area. 
Balint and Cane were chosen Bengal Bouts are a great expe­to captain the 1990 squad after rience because they allow you getting three years experience to help those less fortunate and a Bengal Bout title under than yourself and give you the their belts. They hope to carry chance to be recognized for it on the tradition of Dominic J. in the ring." "Nappy" Napolitano, who The cause is indeed a tremen­
... 

The 60th annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts get underway Sunday at 12:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. Proceeds coordinated the Bouts from from the bouts benefit the hungry in Bangladesh. 1932 until his death in 1986. see BOUTS I page 18 




