

VOL. XXIII NO. 80 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush proposes troop cuts in State of the Union 
WASIIINGTON (AP) across the world in attendance, ments gave way in Poland, East speech, Bush said: fit "the changing circumstances President Bush, acclaiming the Bush told a joint session of Germany, Romania, Bulgaria "We recognize that the Soviet in Europe and the fiscal pres­··revolution of '89" in Eastern Congress and a national broad­and Czechoslovakia. Within the military threat in Europe is sures" at home. Europe, proposed a sharp new cast audience, "We are in a pe­Soviet Union, there are drives diminishing but we see little The troop offer was the sur­cut in U.S. and Soviet combat riod of great transition, great for some level of independence change in Soviet strategic mod­prise centerpiece of a speech in troops Wednesday night, saying hope, yet great uncertainty ... from the Baltics to the ernization. . . . But the time is which Bush also proposed lofty in his first State of the Union "The events of the year just Caucuses and in between. In right to move forward on a goals for American schools and address "the time is right to ended -the revolution of '89 such locations, Bush said, "the conventional arms-control prodded lawmakers to approve move forward" in Europe. -have been a chain reaction, idea called America is alive." agreement to move us to more his plans for a capital gains tax 
Bush also announced plans to change so striking that it Hours before he delivered his appropriate levels of military cut and bills dealing with clean withdraw all of the nearly marks the beginning of a new address, Bush telephoned forces in Europe." air, child care, crime, drugs, 13,000 troops sent to Panama era in the world's affairs. Soviet President Mikhail His troop cutback proposal education and other issues. in an invasion to oust Gen. "Think back," Bush asked his Gorbachev to advise him of his won immediate praise from "It's time to act together," Manuel Antonio Noriega "well audience, "to the world we proposal to cut U.S. and Soviet Democrats, including Sen. Sam Bush said in a speech intended before the end of February." knew as 1989 began." In the forces in Central Europe to Nunn, chairman of the Armed 
With ambassadors from year since, Communist govern-195,000 on each side. In his Services Committee, who said it see BUSH I page 4 
Kelly gives lecture at ND on Pan. invasion 
By MATI GALLAGHER Two related incidents directly News Editor triggered the U.S. intervention, Kelly said. On Saturday, One of tlw principal planners December 16 four American for Operation Just Cause, the military officers got lost near I>nc. 20 invasion of Panama by the PDF headquarters. PDF Anwrican armed forces, said soldiers. who were drunk ac­
U.S. intervention was sparked cording to Kelly, challenged by a desire to protect American and threatened the Americans. lives and property and to pro­Kelly said the four Americans Wet the Panama Canal. fled, only to encounter another 
Army Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly. PDF checkpoint. The PDF sol­
who scrvnd as an associate diers opened fire on the 
professor of military science at Americans' automobile, killing 
Notre Dame from 1963 to a Marine lieutenant and 
196(,, currently serves as the wounding an Army captain. 
dirnrtor of operations for the A young Navy couple, Kelly 
Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS). In said, witnessed this second en­
this roiP, he said. he is respon­counter. The PDF forces ar­
sible for overseeing the plan­rested them. 
ning all operations carried out Kelly said a "senior PDF offi­
by U.S. military forces world­cer" hit and kicked the 
wide. American Navy lieutenant, 
Knlly said the U.S. began physically abusing him for sev­
planning for a possible inva­eral hours. The officer said 
sion of Panama following the "lascivious things" to the offi­
failed Oct. 3 coup attempt by cers wife. Kelly said. 
officers in the Panamanian It was at this point that the 
Defense Forces (PDF). U.S. began to consider inter­
"The coup was ill-planned." vention, Kelly said. The JCS met 
Kelly said. lie said those who at their chairman's home on 
were involved in the coup at­the following day, Sunday, to 
tempt had no plan regarding determine alternatives to 
what to do with Panamanian achieve the goals of protecting 
dictator Gen. Manuel Noriega U.S. lives and property and 
once they had captured him. protecting the Panama Canal. 
"The President was right not to Following this meeting, 
support the coup attempt." President Bush was briefed in a Following the coup, Kelly 1 hr. 40 min. meeting, which 
Gorbachev remains at the helm
said, the U.S. "started having Kelly attended. It was then that 
AP Photo 

concerns about the safety of Bush decided to go ahead with President Mikhail Gorbachev, shown here during a session of the Supreme Soviet, denied rumors 
U.S. citizens in Panama... and Wednesday that he was considering resigning as head of the Soviet Communist Party as was suggested 
see KELLY I page 4

about the Panama Canal." earlier by the Cable News Network. 
Rising Tuition Changing loan policies effect needy students 

$6,000 ningham, a financial aid coun­More restrictions were put on The government pays the in­to the government for it. The selor at Notre Dame. students in order to qualify, she terest on both the Stafford and financial aid office then has to 
$4,000 Previously, almost any family said. Income became just one of Perkins loans while the student decide who will receive the could apply for the Stafford the figures looked at, instead of is in school, and also during a money, and it typically goes to Loan, which is one of the most the sole basis. "grace period" after gradua­the needier students," she
$2.000 
widely used loans. Undergrad­In addition to increased tion-6 months for the Stafford added. uate students were awarded qualifications, the government and 9 months for the Perkins. Students may wish to delay$2,500 per year and graduate increased the amount of the After that the borrower has paying off their loans in order students were given $5,000 per loans. Stafford Loan recipients 10 years to pay back either to continue with school, and 
can receive $2,625 per year as loan. The interest rate for the may apply for a "deferment" 
"In 1986, the government a freshman or sophomore and Stafford Loan is 8 percent for from the lender. During this pulled in the reigns and reor­$4,000 as a junior or senior. the first 4 years of payment time the government will againganized the student loan pro­Graduate students can now get and 10 percent beginning with pay the interest on the loan. 
gram. Now everyone has to fill up _to $7,500 per year. the fifth year. The Perkins Loan The lender may be one of 2 tlfiiJSI[II!!mH'''~' out a needs analysis form, like The reason for the large dif­has an interest rate of 5 per­
1111111111111 
year. 
the FAF for example," said ference between how much a cent. 
$16.000 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
Assistant News Editor

$14.000 t---------IIH 



Financial 
Editor's note: this is the fourth m a

$12,000 t-------IH..H 
Aid
five part series. 

$10,000 t-----i..RH..H 
Within the last 4 years stu­dent loan programs "took an

$8,000 
about face," said Tina Cun­Cunningham. 
student can borrow as an un­Through the Perkins Loan dergraduate, according to Cun­program, a students may bor­ningham, is that the govern­row up to $9,000. ment does not want to over­This loan is "cheaper money," burden students with high loan because one may borrow more, payments after graduation. and pay less interest on it, but 
Last year the average indebt­it is also more difficult to qual­edness of an undergraduate ify for it, Cunningham said. student was $11,500. "The University has to apply 
The Observer 
-~­

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Keenan Revue ticket lines are tough as always 
It is 5:13 p.m .. Fri­day. Jan. 26. I have just escapnd from one of the most horrifying experiencns: Kennan Hevue ticket distribu­tion at Saint Mary's. 
Okay, so it does not Christine Gill 
sound like one of the 
"Top Ten Tortures Saint Mary's Editor 
from Hell," but if you have expnrienees this, you will argue for at lnast a Number Five ranking. 
All week there has been a sign in Haggar, whern the tickets arn distributed, telling everyone that lines cannot form bnfore a certain time. !low did we get this far without being abln to follow simple instruc­tions? 
Today, however, a strange event occurred as the line-up time approached. A hostile alinn species took over the bodies of stu­dnnts, causing normally well-adjusted, respectful women to act like, well, a hostile alien species. 
llow can the dassmate you sit next to suddenly make you shudder with a death stare bm~ause she thought you were trying to cut in front of her. It does not matter that you were only trying to move so as to breathe, away from the crowd's pushing and shoving. 
A security officer said that a girl had been "squished" in the crowd. She did not look hurt. but the fact that she had to get out of line supports my theory of a hostile species. 
Last year, the situation was not as bad. Thern were lines, but they went out of Haggar. onto the terrace and down the steps. This year, there was no organization. Obviously someone was conducting a study on the relationship between humans and pit-bulls. 
Besides being hostile, members of this new species were slobs. The second floor was littered with pop cans, candy wrappers, newspapers and other trash. They had not studind our culturn nnough to know that those plastic or metal containers, known as trash cans. am not just for decoration. 
Thn Keenan Hevue is a great tradition, but th•~rn must be a better way to give out ticknts. I do not know why the distribution was moVPd from ()'Laughlin Auditorium. It seems to bP a better place, with much larger open spaces and it does not require !inns to snake through a small area like Haggar. 
It is now 5:55 p.m. and I have a strange feeling the impostors will be gone. I am almost positive that if I leave right now, I will meet the studnnts with their original pnrsonaliti1~s. I wonder if the alifms will re­turn next yNtr? I bet they visit more than just once a year. That would explain a lot of things -like registration for classes and football ticket distribution and... 
Join The Observer 



-Ih-e-O.bse.~ror_
-----. A-=Y:.'-' ­
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Accent Today's Staff: VIewpoint Kim Skiles 
Terri Walsh John Cronin 
Shonda Wilson News Katie Foster
Alison Cocks Janice O'Leary Joe Moody 
Business Systems
Ad Design Sara Marley Molly Schwartz 
Val Poletto 
Caroline Clarke Cesar Capella 
Lisa Gunsorek 
Ryan Roberts 
Jeanne Naylor 
Quinn Satepauhoodle 
Graphics Sports 
Bradford Boehm Molloy Mahoney 
Production 
Greg Tice Arne! Gallanosa 

The Observer (U::iPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frid&¥ except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights aru ruserved. 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 1. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

Men's Auditions for Godspell will be in the Middle Room of Farley Hall at 7 p.m. tonight. No prepa­ration is necessary. Direct questions to Robin 283-4011, Room 303 Farley. 
A Chinese New Year Celebration will be held in the North and South Dining Halls celebrating Chinese New Year at dinner, Thursday, Feb. 1. Chinese cuisine will be featured. 
Yesterday's high: 45 Yesterday's low: 23 Nation's high: 85 (Ft. Myers, Fla.) Nation's low: -22 (International Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: Thunderstorms developing today, look for a high near 40.Rain could change to snow Friday afternoon. • 
WORLD 

Firefighters airlifted to a ferry in the Irish Sea put President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador said out an engine room blaze Wednesday and the vessel, car­U.N. Secretary-General Javier Pernz de Cuellar agrnPd rying 285 passengers and crew, was towed to port. the Wednesday to try to restart peace talks between the gov­coast guard said. No injuries were reported, and passen­ernment and rebels in the Central American nation. "We gers remained on board rather than be evacuated by heli­feel positive and hopeful that we will be able to re-estab­copter, said Sealink U.K. Ltd., the ship's owner. The fire lish the dialogue process and that hopefully we will find was extinguished by 14 firefighters who were airlifted by that political solution that we are all anxious for in our three helicopters to the 8,000-ton ferry, the St. Columba. country," Cristiani told n~porters after mnPting tlw U.N. 
chief. 

Volunteer Week concludes tonight with a video presentation and discussion concerning donwstic violence by Mona Muthers of the YWCA. The event begins at 8 p.m. in 117 Haggar and is sponsored by the Social Concerns Commission. 
There was an error on the dates for this week's SUB movies. The following schedule is eorrect: Thurs., "Cry Freedom", Friday, "Sea of Love", and Saturday, "Hoxanne." All shows play at 8 p.m. and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
NATIONAL 

The final defendant in the McMartin preschool molestation case will be retried on the 13 counts of child molestation and conspiracy that left jurors deadlocked, prosecutors announced Wednesday. The decision to retry Haymond Buckey came after long meetings with District Attorney Ira Heiner and after a loud public campaign by parents whose children attended the McMartin nursery school. The parents appeared on television, called news conferences, enlisted politicians and solicited letters sup­porting Buckey's reprosecution. 
A copy of the first printing of the Declaration of Independence sold at a New York auction Wednesday for $1.6 million, a record for any printed piece of Americana. Sotheby's announced. The copy, bought by a Chicago rare book and manuscript dealer is one of only 23 known to exist and one of just two remaining in private hands, said a spokesperson for the auction house. Also Wednesday, George Washington's own copy of The Federalist Papers sold for $1.4 million to a private American collector. 
Pro-Life supporters in Wisconsin dHH~red two votes said to be overwhelming victories for their national movement. The Wisconsin Assembly approwd a bill which will require minors to receive parental consent beforn having an abortion. Also defeated was an attmnpt to rP­peal a dormant law that provides criminal penalties against anyone who performs an abortion. "This sends a clear signal nationally because it mark(ld such a resound­ing victory." Welch said. "I think this was a shot heard round the world." 
In Joseph Girzone's New Testament epilogue. "Joshua and the Children," Girzone presents a lattclr-day Jesus who has radical ideas to change humanity's relationship with God. In between healing the siek and restoring sight to the blind, he preaches against drugs and ocean pollution, uses TV Pvangelism to get his message across and buys gallon jugs of table wine from liquor stores."This is my attempt to present the dear and simple message of Jesus that's lwen lost over the centuries," said Girzone. a retired Homan Catholic priPst. 
INDIANA 

The Hoosier Lottery, boasted Wednesday of higher-than-expected sales, but made no men­tion of problems experienced during recent months. "Demand for lloosier Lottery tickets has remained significantly greater than anticipated," the report said. Through the end of the year, the lottPry's sales never dipped below $10 million per week. About one-third of the revenues raised will eventually be transferred into the Build Indiana Fund, which will pay for capital improvements. Tho balance of the revenues goes to cover lottery expenses, including a share for ticket retailers. 
Legislation banning abortion in Indiana's public facilities and restricting it when a pregnancy has reached 20 weeks was assigned to be voted on Tuesday by a Senate committee that defeated Pro-Life legislation earlier this year. It would also prohibit abortions when tests show the fetus could live outside the womb, either natu­rally or with life support. Such abortions would be permitted only if the mother's life is in danger. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 181.50 {( 3.07 S&P Composite 329.08 {( 6.10 Dow Jones Industrials 2590.54 {( 47.30 
Precious Metals Gold {!>-$6.40 to $412.40/ oz. 
Silver{>-1.7¢ to $5.228 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On February 1: e In 1790: The U.S. Supreme Court convened for 
the first time, at the Hoyal Ex­change Building on Broad Street in New York. (However, since only three of the six jus­tices were present, the court 
recessed until the next day.) e In 1960: Four black col­lege students began a sit-in protest at a lunch counter in Greensboro. N.C., where they had been refused service. e In 1979: Ayatollah Khomeini received a tumul­tuous welcome as he stepped off a jetliner in Tehran, ending nearly 15 years of exile. 

Thursday, February 1, 1990 The Observer 
Czech Republic leader resigns 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -Frantisek Pitra. the last old guard Communist left in power by the peaceful revolution, re­signed Wednesday as leader of the Czech republic, the official news agency CTK reported. 
The 57-year-old Pitra also is expected to give up his job as deputy premier after Parliament approves his resig­nation from the Czech post. 
lie had strong links with the orthodox Communist leader­ship that ruled from 1968, when Soviet tanks crushed a n~form movement. until the pro-democracy revolution last fall. lie lost his seat on the party Politburo in November, along with party leader Milos .I akf~s and otlwrs. 
Pitra survived as Czech prPmiPr, howPvf'r. after making his rPpublic's gowrnnwnt the first in Czt>rhoslovakia since I ()48 that was not dominated by Communists. That paved tlw way for similar changes at the fPderal lewl. 
ThP Czech prPminr automati-

Lecture discusses 'myths' of love 
BY PAUL PEARSON News Writer 
I.IIVI' and SI'X arl' no PXCUSeS for w•tting marriPd, Sol Gordon said at a IPrturP WPdrwsday. 
"Half of all modnrn mar­riagPs brPak up within fiw or six yPars. I want you to bnat tlw odds," Gordon said. 
(;ordon, a profl'ssor l'meritus of Child and Family Studies at SyracusP UnivNsity. said that tlw dPrision to marry should bP "a rational and intellectual de­rision." 
In a humorous and animatr~d IPrturn sponsorl'd by the Year of thP Family Committee and tlw GPndPr Studies Department. Gordon talked about the many "myths" concerning sex. love, and rPlationships. 
On!' of tlwse was the idea love 
is blind. "J.ovP is blind for only 
24 hours. Then you have to 
opPn your eyes and sm~ whom it 
is you'rp in love with." Gordon 
said. 
Gordon discussnd thn idea 
that onP ran only fall in love cally is deputy premier of the national government. 
CTK did not give the reason for Pitra's resignation, which came a day after the Communists ended 40 years of dominance in Parliament by giving more than 100 of their seats to pro-democracy groups. The realignment completed an effort to include those groups in Parliament before the free elections set for June 8. 
Parliament swore in 120 new deputies Tuesday, only nine of them Communists, under an 
agreement  to  replace  more  
than  one-third  of  the  350­ 
member legislature.  

Communist representation in Parliament now has declined to 139 from 242. 
More than 40 political partins have emerged in the two months since Parliament re­moved the constitutional provi­sion guaranteeing the Communist Party a monopoly on powPr. 
In other developments WPdnesday, Foreign Minister 
only once. "You can fall in love at least 18 limPs. After the Pightnr~nth time, you should stop. because thPn thn law of diminishing returns starts to take el'fnct." 
Gordon also condemned con­fusing sex with love. "You can be sexually attracted to people that you can't hold an intelli­gPnt conversat~on with. You can be sexually attracted to parts of people." 
Gordon also said that "Sex is unrelated to love .... There are pr~ople who have great sex and can't stand each other." 
lie also talked about the mis­conception that "once a boy starts Ibecoming aroused). he can't stop. This is the basis for ~irtually all acquaintance rape. 
Gordon advised women in this situation to say, '"I think I hear your mother coming.' He'll stop on a dime." 
"The best way to test a rela­tionship is to hold off having sex," Gordon said. 
"We need to return sex to in-Jiri Dienstbier met with a papal representative on restoring ties with the Vatican, and state ra­dio announced plans to resume 

broadcasting  religious  pro­ 
grams.  
In  his  meeting  with  

Archbishop Francesco Colasuonno, the papal envoy, Dienstbier also discussed the visit Pope John Paul II, planned for April 21-22 as the new gov­ernment seeks to restore sanc­tioned religious observances following decades of repres­sion. 
The talks concerned "the early resumption" of diplo­matic relations between Czechoslovakia and the Vatican, CTK reported. Czechoslovakia broke ties in the 1950s. 
Last year, Poland became the first East bloc nation to restore diplomatic ties with the Vatican. John Paul is a native of that country. 
tirnacy. Parents are not telling their children about sex. Schools are not telling them. We don't have sex education, we have courses in plumbing." 
"!The U.S. has! the highest rate of unwanted pregnancy, abortion and venereal disease in people under age 24 of any developed country. People say, 'don't talk about it.' Knowledge is not harmful. Ignorance and unresolved curiosity are harm­ful," Gordon said. 
"What do we tell them to do in the mean time? There is no response. Masturbation is a healthy, normal expression of sexuality." 
Gordon avoided setting a limit on a "healthy" frequency of masturbation, but advised, "once is too much if you don't like it or your religion is against it." 
''I'm not telling you to mas­turbate, but if you are going to molest, seduce or rape some­one, it's better to masturbate." 
see LOVE I page 6 


Notre Dome Student Gouernment 
and 

N A.S.C.C.U. 

Nation.al. :Association of Students at Catho(ic Co[{,eqes and. Uni.vet"si.ti-es 
l.nvi.te you to 


by 

Fr. Jallle8 Heft, S.M. Provost. University of Dayton Saturday, February 3 at 1:45 p.m. at the C.C.E. Auditorium 
"S<euccihl 1f(())lr TnJtlli~ 
Catln.oll!cs !n lHiiglhler !Ed1UlcSLtlolDl" 
by 

Rembert G. Weakland, O.S.B. 
Archbishop of Milwaukee, Chainnan of Bishops' Pastoral on Economics 
Friday, Febrwuy 2 at 8:00 p.m. at the C.C.E. Auditorium. 
Limited seating, please pick up a free ticket at the Information desk at LaFortune Student Center, 1st Floor 

Architectural interests The Observer/ sarah Vakkur 
Professor Smith and Professor Featherstone discussing the "Founding Monument" with visitors at the architecture building. 



New decade provides Church with challenge 
Ruth Fitzpatrick lectures at N D 
By MICHAEL OWEN News Writer 
Ruth McDonough Fitzpatrick, National Coordinator for the Women's Ordination Committee, (WOC), gave a speech entitled "Women Priests: Vision for the Year 2000" last night in the Hesburgh Auditorium in which she out­lined a brief history and possi­ble approaches to integrating women priests into the Roman Catholic Church. 
Fitzpatrick suggested that the 1990s will be a very challenging decade for the church as many questions fac­ing the church will have to be answered. She said, "The ques­tion is do we take what is given to us or do we create something new?" She felt confident that women will have the opportunity to be ordained within the next few years. "We will have women priests but for the wrong reasons -namely a shortage of male priests." 
Aside from being the WOC's National Coordinator, 
Summer 1990 
Fitzpatrick is involved in sev­eral other committees and has helped with the struggle for women's ordination since the 1970s. She attended the 1979 Latin American Bishop's meet­ing in Puebla, Mexico which was opened by Pope John Paul II. 
A mother of three grown children and two grandchildren, Fitzpatrick was named by People Magazine as one of the nine people Pope John Paul II would least like to encounter on his most recent U.S. visit. 
In 1975, Fitzpatrick was part of the Detroit Call for Action which she described as "a foretaste of what could happen with Bishops, nuns, priests, and the church working in a democratic way." In a response by the Vatican, two reasons were given why women can never be ordained. She said that the first reason given was the statement that "women do not image Jesus." The second 
see PRIEST/ page 6 



Be a counselor in Pine River, MN at CAMP FOLEY 
We will be at SMC Feb 1 9:00-4:00 LeMans Lobby We will be at NO Feb2 9:00-4:00 
O'Hara Lounge LaFortune 
Now hiring counselors in 14 areas including swimming, tennis, sailing, and many more. 
Questions? Call Mike 283-3508 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuriag Friclay night seafoocl buffet ancl Sunclay brunch 
219-259-9925 

Thursday, February 1, 1990
page 4 The Observer 
Coast Guard fires on boat suspected of carrying drugs 
AP Photo 
President Bush, in a contemplative state in the Private Study of the Oval Office Tuesday, works on the State of the Union address that was delivered Wednesday night. 
by parachute in 10 minutes as Panama." Kelly noted that the build democracy in Panama." troops were killed in tlw inva­you could land in a day and a current Endara government Kelly said thn 27,000 troops sion. About 314 I'I>F soldiPrs

Kelly 
half." Kelly said no deaths was legally elected earlier in involved in the invasion are al­w1~re kiiiPd, and 203 dvilians ()(~urred during the parachute 1989, but was prevented from ready beginning to pull out. wnre killed, some of whom
continued from page 1 
drops, which often encountered taking office by Noriega's in­There are currently about were mnrnbPrs of tlw pro­the intnrvention. resistance by PDF forces. timidation. "That democrati­16,000 U.S. troops in Panama, Noriega "dignity battalions." 
Knlly said the invasion did not American strategy in Panama cally-elected government Kelly said. lie pn~dicted that Kelly said that failing to cap­occur until Tuesday because of was to defeat the PDF, and to wanted to serve the people of the troop levels would reach ture Noriega in th1~ op1~ning thn time necessary to assnmble take control of the two major Panama. but they eouldn't be­10,000, the pre-invasion figure, minutns of the invasion was not the military airplanes neces­metropolitan areas near the cause the PDF stopped them." bnfore mid-summer. a major failure. "lin exerted sary to transport the airborne Canal Zone, Panama City and "We have turned over the gov­The U.S. stations about zero command and control troops to Panama. Colon. These goals were both ernment to President Endara." 10,000 troops in the Canal over the PDF" from tlw mo­
Opmation .I ust Cause, Kelly achieved, Kelly said. Kelly said. "They're going to Zone to defend the canal. ment of tlw invasion, Kelly said, was "one of the most American forces had defeated need some help for a while to Kelly said that 23 American said. complieatPd operations every the PDF forces in the invasion attPmptPd. It was probably tlw area by the Pnd of Wednesday, most sucenssful U.S. military Knlly said. On Thursday, opnration since World War II, American troops began to as­and it was tlw most successful sume control of Panama City. 
airborrw opPration ever." Noriega's "Dignity Battalions." 
KPlly said over 27,000 troops, paramilitary organizations rnpresm1ting tlw Army air­loyal to Noriega personally, borne, infantry and rangers, were "quitf' active in Panama and Mari nn Corps troops, as City, shooting, looting and wnll as Air hJrcn and Navy killing." supporting forces, attacked at Kelly said there was a "short, least 31J targets in Panama. tight" chain of command for 
"Tiw application of force was Just Cause, with the comman­surgical and precise, with the der of the 18th Airborn1~ Corps intention of causing minimal responsible for planning and 
casualties." Kelly said. lin executing the operation. noted that only two bombs The U.S. military received were dropped in the entire op­criticism following the 1982 in­eration, and no artillery was vasion of Grenada for control­used in Panama City. ling the operation from 
The two bombs were dropped Washington, rather than from by the nnw F-117 Stnalth the area of battle. fightnr, and they hit exactly Currently, Kelly said. where they were aimed. Kelly "Panama doesn't have a major said they were intended to stun military threat, but there is a 
troops approximately 200 major criminal threat, because yards away. of all the weapons we found 
Kelly said the decision was down there." Kelly said U.S. made to drop airborne forces forces have found over 51,000 by parachute. rather than land weapons to date. Kelly said thnm by transport plane at Noriega was probably serving U.S.-controlled airfields, be­as an arms middleman. cause of speed considerations. U.S. goals in Panama now in­"You can get as many troops in dude "restoring democracy to 
Serving South Bend's Finest Chicago Style Pizza 

Carry out and/or FREE delivery Open 4pm daily -closed Monday comer of Fir & St. Road 23 277-8460 


NEW OHLEANS (AP) -A Coast Guard cutter sprayed a Cuban-operated freighter with machine-gun fire and shells Wednesday when the ship re­fused to stop for a drug inspec­tion, but tim vessel escaped into Mexican waters, officials said. 
The 250-foot IIPrmann took 




Bush 
continued from page 1 
to hnlp s1~t an election-year 
agenda for a Democratic-run 
Congrnss. 
lie condemned racially moti­
vatnd mail bombings. saying 
the nation "must confront and 
condemn racism. anti-semitism, 
bigotry and hat1~ .... 
"And let me say that so long 
as wn remnmber the American 
idna -so long as we live up to 
thn American ideal -the State 
of the union will remain sound 
and strong," he said. 
Confronting a snnsitive issue, 
Bush pointedly rejected a pro­
posal by Sen. Daniel Moynihan, 
D-N.Y., to roll back a Social 
Sncurity tax increase that took 
effect Jan. I. 
"The last thing we need to do 
is mnss around with Social 
Security," Bush said. 

several hits from the cutter 
Chincoteague as it was chased 
for more than 26 hours across 
the Gulf of Mexico, said Coast 
Guard spokesman Joe Gibson. 
Coast Guardsmen saw no evi­
dence of casualties aboard the 
freighter, said Jack O'Dell, a 
Coast Guard spokesman in 
Bush also expressed concern over the nation's health care. and directed llealth and lluman Services Secretary Louis Sullivan to lead a review of recommendation on Washington. 
When the Panama-registered ship reached Mexican waters, the 11 0-foot Coast Guard cutter held fire and asked the Mexican government to take over and determine whether the vessel was carrying drugs, Gibson said. 
the quality, cost and accessibil­ity of the health care system 
"I am committed to bring the staggering costs of health care under control," Bush said. 
The president said the chat­
"We were in international waters," Gibson said. "We can­not pursue vessels into other countries' waters." 
The IIermann steamed on unaccompanied toward the cen­tral Mexican coast. Later, two Mexican navy vessels escorted the ship to the port of Tampico, 
lenge before America now is "to take this democratie system of ours, a system second to none, and make it better." 
lie spoke grandly of a nation where everyone could gnt a job, feel confident that their chil­dren are safe, where the envi­ronment is clean, the economy is stron~ and where "Made in 
the USA ' is a symbol of quality and excellence. 
"Ambitious aims? Of course. Easy to do? Far from it. But the future's at stake. This na­tion will not accept anything less than excellence in educa­tion." 
llis troop cutback proposal won immediate praise from Democrats, including Snn. Sam Nunn, chairman of the Armed Services Committen, who said it fit "the changing circumstanclls in Europe and the fiscal pres­sures" ar home. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., who was to and authorities began search­ing the vessel, the Foreign Ministry said. The inspection was expected to take at least 24 hours. 

An 1iffieial at the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington called the incident a provocation. 
deliver the Democratic re­sponse, said that "very sub­stantial reductions are not only possiblt~. but I think inevitable." 
Bush's plan would produce rnductions in the more than 265,000 U.S. troops in WestNn Europe and 565,000 Soviet forces in Central and Eastern Europe. There are an addi­tional 35,000 U.S. troops in Britain, Italy, Greece and Turkey who would not be af­fected by the latest plan. 
Last May, Bush propos1~d a 275,000 ceiling on U.S. and on Soviet forces throughout all of Europe and said negotiations to reach that goal should bn wrapped up within a year. 
The 1989 proposal, still under 1wgotiation, would n~quire th1~ United States to withdraw 30,000 combat troops and forcn the Sovints to rnduee thnir troops by about 325,000. 
ND Alumni Assoc. to host teleconference on marriage 
........--------~ ­
Thursday, February 1, 1990 
The Observer 


By JOE MOODY News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame's Alumni Association will host a nationwide satellite tele­conference discussing the chal­lenge and meaning of a Christian marriage. 
A recent survey of 1986 alumni revealed that well over 50 percent of them rated Notre Dame as not very. or not at all effective in marriage prepara­tion. Over 30 percent rated Notre Dame as ineffective in fostering a "mature sense of interpersonal relationships," according to the 1988-89 "Fact Book." 
The program is entitled "The First Fifteen Years of Marriage: 'I Do' to 'Don't You Dare,"' "It will be for everyone who is either thinking of get­ting married to the couple cele­brating their 15th wedding an­niversary." said Kathleen Sullivan, director of alumni continuing education at Notre Damn. 
The teleconference will fea­ture a panel discussion ad­dressing such topics as the ero­sion of romantic love, the irri­tation and hurt feelings engen­dered by personality differences as well as the balancing of sacrifice and self­assertion. 

Charles Lennon, executive di­rector of the alumni associa­tion originated the idea of us­ing satellite technology to bring programs to the alumni. "Notre Dame will be the first university ever to bring a purely educational program to its alumni and communities." said Sullivan. 
The live, call-in program has been endorsed by the U.S. Catholic Bishops' division of Laity and Family Life. 
The 90-minute show will be aired on March 11 at 2 p.m. (EST) on the Catholic Telecommunications Network (CTNA) and on the Vision Interfaith Satellite Network (VISN). Between 30 and 50 lo­cal alumni clubs will participate in the program through CTNA affiliates. Locally, it can be seen on the C­Span channel. The program will potentially reach 90 million households. 
The panelists will be Rev. Michael Himes, associate pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame; Patricia Livingston, as­sistant professional specialist in Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry; and Rev. Frederick Pfotenhauer, a Lutheran Minister and adjunct assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame. 
This show is the second in a series. The 1st dealt on the subject of dual career families. Planning to make more shows dealing with topics concerning the family, Sullivan said, "We're interested in learning what future programs on the family the students and alumni would like to see produced." 
De Klerk demands judicial inquiry 
.JOIIANNESBUHG. South Africa (AP) -Pn~sident F.W. de Klerk rev!'l'sed himself WPdrwsday and ordl'f'Pd a judi­cial inquiry into aiiPgations that policP rarried out autho­rized killings of anti-apartheid activists. 
liP raiiPd for a separate in­vestigation of tlw dPath of a 20-yPar-old black man found hanged in his prison rnll. Tlw man. Clayton Sithole. was rlosPiy as.sociatt>d with tlw 
family  of  imprisorwd  black  
IPadPr :'I!Pison MandPia.  
NPwspapers  said  dl'  Klerk  

would meet with MandPia on Thursday, tlw day bPI'on• dPiiv· ering a major addrPss to Parliament. 
Tlw Cape Times and Busirwss Day, riling government sources they did not identify. said the meeting probably would innu­ence de Klerk's speech, which is expected to outline his plans for rPform. 
lk Klerk is expected to re­IPase Mandela within weeks. Tlw nation's best-known black IPadPr, now 71, has spent mom than 27 years in prison for his nl!P in planning the guerrilla campaign of thP African National Congress, the main blark group fighting white domination. 
Mandela's n~lease is seen as necessary before black leaders will rwgotiate with the govern­rm~nl. There has b(~en an in­ernasn in political unrAst re­
·rently. however, and the gov­
ernnwnt fears releasing him 
could lead to violence among 


ROJL4SCE, GREAT }fFSIC. EXl'BERA1\T DA.YCISG 
The London Hit Musical! 
A love story woven with international intrigue based on a chess game between Soviet and Americ.an Masters. Features the hit songs "One l\ight in Bangkok" and "I Know Him So Well", one of ·whitnev Houston's favorite songs from her new alhu~. 

Morris Civic Auditorium February 9-10 
Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. Tickets: Eves.-$28.50 $23.50 $16.50 $12.50 Matinee-$23.50 $19.50 $14-.50 $10.50 
BOX OFFICE OPE:\ 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday Telephone 284-9190 


MasterCard & VISA Group. Student &: Accepted Senior Citizen Discount 
A Broadwa.v Theatre Lea[!ue Pre.<enlati.on 

the disenfranchised black ma­jority. 
De Klerk's decision to inves­tigate the alleged police hit squads comes less than two months after he refused to ap­point such a commission. The controversy began late last year when thme former police­men said they participated in killings of government oppo­nents under authorization of their superiors. 
Police have denied the exis­tence of any hit squads. 
Justice Minister Kobie Coetsee said de Klerk appointed Supreme Court Judge L.T.C. Harms to investigate "the al­leged incidence of murders ... in order to achieve, effect or pro­mote constitutional or political aims." 
"In a number of cases attor­neys-general are considering the reopening of inquests," Coetsee's statement said. 
He said details on how the in­quiry is to be carried out would be published soon in the official government gazette. 
An anti-apartheid group that has demanded an inquiry into the alleged death squads wel­comed the move and called off a Thursday protest planned for Cape Town. 

Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the 
advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the 
country. 

Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYourGlances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 


Student body pres. elections schedule set 
Special to The Observer 
There are four tickets run­ning: Mark Bettencort and Kevin Craig, Sigi Loya and Raja Singh, Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar, and Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith. 
The campaign begins on Monday, Feb. 5 at 12 a.m. and will end Sunday, Feb. 11 at 11:59 p.m. 
Presidential and vice-presi­dential debates will be held on Feb. 8 at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Memorial Library. 
The date scheduled for a run-off, if there need be, is Wednesday, Feb. 14 from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5-7 p.m. 
Student senate elections were moved back to March to give the student senate a chance to analyze the posi­tion of student senator. 


Thursday. February 1 , 1990 

Ordination of women in the Church remains an issue 
By SARA MARLEY 
News Editor 
The first step toward the or­dination of women is the Church's recognition of patri­archy as a sin, Huth McDonough Fitzpatrick in a press conference Wednesday. 
"The patriarchal system is sinful. It comes out of a vision of reality that is based on fear. The result is a lot of '-isms': 
sexism,  racism,  militarism,  
heterosexism,  agism,"  
Fitzpatrick said.  

The national coordinator of Women Ordination's Conference, Fitzpatrick said, "The patriarchal system is harmful to both men and women, laity and ordained." 
"History was written by those who had power. It is an incom­plete history. You have to dig beneath the surface to find the Vatican II VPry, very seriously, that we are the Church." 

"The majority of women in the Church have no say, no de­cision-making power." 
Fitzpatrick is quick to note hat not everyone in the Church. is patriarchal. 
"There are some wonderful people on the inside. They are working with pick-axes from thn inside while we circle with rams' horns from the outside." 
Although opponents claim the women's ordination issue is dead or a North American. middle class conc£Hn, Fitzpatrick points to support in Europe, Scandinavia, Central America and even a W.O.C. nwmbpr in Krakow, Poland. 
"The ordination of women because of a shortage of priests is the worst reason. But the Church is pragmatic. so 
Aid 
continued from page 1 

f11deral guarantnP agencies, 50 state guarantel' agencies or millions of banks across the country, Cunningham said. 
llowevnr, Notre Dame did somn research and carrw up with 7 diffewnt banks nation­wide whom students may wish to use. They are listed on the Stafford Loan application. 
"Wn only facilitate the stu­dent getting tlw money," Cun­ningham said. "We just doter­mine your eligibility for tlw studnnt loan. Thn bank or the guarantee ag!'ncy have final approval of wlwtlwr or not you w~t it." 
Then~ is no pre-payment penalty involvnd with eitlwr thn Stafford or I'Prkins loans. This nwan that is tlw loan is paid ofT before the I 0 y!'ar pPriod. tlw borrownr is not penalized for not spreading out the pay­ments. 
A major probiPm with loans nationwide is dPfaulting-not paying hack thP loans, she said. Last year there was $1.8 billion defaultPd in studPnt loans. 
Our default rate at Notre Dame is less than 2 pereent. The national average is approximatPly 15 percent. 
"This means two things," ae­eording to Cunningham, "our students not only get good jobs, hut onps with high salaries within one year out of college." 
Another and an increasingly popular option is parental bor­rowing. The Parental Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUSl is an example of this, said Cunningham. 
Parents may borrow up to $4,000 per year through the PLUS program. It is a "non­need base loan." she said. 
The internst rate is variable on a PLUS loan with a ceiling of 12 percent. For the year of '88­'89 the internst rate was 10.4 percent; this year, '89-'90 the rate was 12 percent. 
Panmts must immediately begin paying off their PLUS loan. They may Plect to defer, but if' so, the govnrnment will no longer pay the interest on the loan. 
"More and more farnilins arn borrowing al ternativn (non­governnwntl loans," said Cun­ningham. 
Loans for education outside of the governmnnt such as the Tnrry Loan or the Excel Loan are available for people who applied for aid and were re­jected or if the Notre Dame fi­nancial package is not enough, she explained. 
These loans are more expen­sive because they are not subsi­dized. Variable interest rates apply and contain no ceiling. 
viewpoints and stories that mayb(~ they will take women
real loneliness is, have a rela­
make up the whole story." somH\r than later because of
tionship with someone who 
"We love the Church. We take that," said Fitzpatriek.
doesn't care about you." 

The second thing Gordon that is vPry. wry 1wgatiw." pointed to is a sense or humor. Among tlwsn things arP tlw


Priest 

"No family with a young child blacklisting of tlwologians, tlw 
continued from page 3 

can survive without a snnse of dosing of innnr eity parisiH•s, humor." and tlw murdPr of church ofli­
Th1~ third thing is communi­was "because it has nPvPr bn!'n eials in Latin Anwrica. Slw fppfs cation. "At a resort, if you see done in tlw past -wonwn wl'rP wonwn IH'Pd to lw includPd in two pnople togethnr and not not at tlw Holy Thursday Last ordPr to lwlp with tlwsP proh­talking, thny are married." Supp1~r." IPms. Slw finislwd by sitying, 
In r.ondusion, Gordon advisnd Fitzpatrir.k concludnd lwr "Tiw pro!'PSS of lilwration lw­the young people of Notre sp1~nrh by urging tlw audi1men gi ns "·twn pPopll' ar!' val Ul'd Dame to "start a new twnd. to help. "Tiwrn's a lot and appweiatPd and appn~eiatP Fall in low with a friend." happening in tlw church today tlwmsl'Ivi's." 
Here is your chance to develop few. You will take on respon­your professional skills by teach­sibilities and meet challenges ing children eager to learn ... in that would never be offered you a country where teachers are in a starting position in the United highly respected. More than 45 States. When you return. you will countries are asking for Peace find that your Peace Corps serv­Corps Volunteers in almost every ice will open new doors to you. field of education: Math and Educational institutions. interna­Science, Primary, Vocational tional firms and government and Special Education and agencies value Peace Corps Industrial Arts. to name only a experience. 
25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
See our free film Thurs., Feb. 8th at 7 p.m. 
in the Center For Social Concerns. 

Interviews, Wed. & Thurs., Feb. 21st & 22nd 
in Career and Placement Services. St. Mary's 
interviews, Fri. Feb. 23rd Counseling & Career 
Developing Center. 




Love 
continued from page 3 
"Now it is totally stupid to hav1~ snx without tlw condom. Peopln say the condom is not one hundrPd pnrr.ent safn, but that d£H~S not nwan takP !HlP hundred pen·pnt risk." Gordon said. 
Gordon also distinguislwd b1~twnnn "maturP and imma­turn" rPlationships. 
In an immaturP n~lationship, "you hav11 a tnndPncy to hn 
mean to your parents, your brothers, your sisters, land) your family dog." 
On the other hand, in a ma­ture relationship, a person tends to be morn energetic and kind to people. Also, "You don't givn up your friends in a rna­turn relationship." 
Gordon notl'd three things that Iw fePls arP critical to a mature rplationship. Th£\ first of these things is intimacy, or caring, which he callnd "the rnal turn-on in a long-term rn­lationship." 
"If you want to know what 




Business
Thursday, February 1, 1990 
page 7 

Moscow gets a deserved break

Economic index 
MOSCOW (AP) -Thousands 
at such alien concepts as effi­of queue-hardened Soviets on ciency and fast, friendly service. 

jumps after lull 
Wednesday cheerfully lined up Normally dour citizens broke to get a taste of "gamburgers," into grins as they caught the in­WASHINGTON (AP) -The and equipment orders, 
"chizburgers" and "Filay-o­fectious cheerful mood from government's main economic higher stock prices, a rise in 
feesh" sandwiches as McDon­youthful Soviet staffers hired forecasting gauge rose a ro­the money supply, an in­
ald's opened in the land of for their ability to smile and bust 0.8 percent in Decem­crease in building permits 
Lenin for the first time. work hard. ber, the Commerce Depart­and a gain in and index mea­
The world's largest version of Accordions played folk songs ment said Wednesday in a suring consumer confidence. 
the landmark American fast­and women in traditional cos­report indicating the na­The biggest drag on the 
food chain rang up 30,000 tumes danced with cartoon tion's sluggish economy can index last month was a drop 
meals on 27 cash registers, characters, including Mickey skirt a recession. in the price of raw materials. 
breaking the opening-day Mouse and Baba Yaga, a witch The jump in the Index of While such a decrease is 
record for McDonald's world­of Russian fairy tales. Leading Economic Indicators considered good news for 
wide, officials said. One Muscovite, accustomed to followed a tiny 0.1 percent inflation prospects, it is 
The Soviets, bundled in fur clerks who snarl if they say gain in November and a 0.3 counted as a negative in the 
coats and hats, seemed un­anything at all, asked for a percent decline in October. It index because it also can re­
fazed, lining up before dawn straw and was startled when a was the largest increase flect declining demand. 
outside the 700-seat restau­smiling young Soviet woman since a similar 0.8 percent Other negatives were an 
rant, the first of 20 planned found him one and popped it advance last April. increase in weekly unem­
across the Soviet Union. The straight into his drink. The index, composed of 11 ployment claims, a decline in 
crush of customers was so in­For most customers, it was forward-looking statistics orders for consumer goods 
tense the company stayed open their first experience with a designed to forecast eco­and a speedup in business 
until midnight, two hours later hamburger. Sandwiches were nomic activity six to nine delivery times. 
than planned. served in the familiar bag months in the future, was The average work week 
"I only waited an hour and I marked with the golden arches, the latest indication that the was unchanged. 
think they served thousands be­but were packed in wrappers economy, while weak, can The various changes left 
fore me," said a happy middle­and disadvantaged children, bearing Cyrillic letters, approx­avoid an actual decline in the index at 145.7 percent 
aged woman who works at an Gary Reinblatt, senior vice imating "gamburger." growth. for its 1982 base of 100. For 
aluminum plant. president of McDonald's They tried them one-handed. The December report the year, the index posted in­
"And it was only 10 rubles Canada, said from Toronto. They picked their sandwiches showed the index up just 0.4 creases in seven months: 
for all this," she said. ''I'm The restaurant, built by the apart to examine the contents. percent for the year, com­January, April, July, August, 
taking it back for the girls at company in a joint venture with One young woman finally pared with an increase of 3.9 September, November and 
the factory to try." the city of Moscow that began squashed her "Beeg Mak" to fit percent for all of 1988. It December. It declined in 
Big Macs were priced at 3.75 14 years ago, brought to 52 the her lips around it. suggests that economic ac­February, March, May, June 
rubles and double cheeseburg­number of countries where Under the sign of the goldentivity this year could be more ami_OctQber. 
ers at 3 rubles -about two McDonald's operates. arches, accented by the Soviet sluggish than in 1989. The latest Commerce re­
hours' pay for a starting Mc­The previous opening-day hammer-and-sickle flag, hun­Six of the statistics con­port on the overall 1989 
Donald's staffer or the average record for sales was in Bu­dreds lined up for the long­tributed to the December economy, the gross national 
Soviet, but much cheaper than dapest, company officials said. awaited grand opening at 10 gain, led by an increase in product, showed growth 
other private restaurants that Besides its restaurants in the a.m. on Pushkin Square, reach­the backlog of manufac­slowing from 3 percent in 
have sprung up recently. United States, the leading num­ing out excitedly for McDon­turer's unfilled orders. the third quarter of 1989 to 
Half the day's sales were do­ber of McDonald's are in ald's flags and pins as the Others showing strength just 0.5 percent in the Octo­
nated to the Soviet Children's Canada and Japan, the officials hamburger chain's army ful­were an increase in plant ber-December period. 
Fund, which provides medical said. filled the Soviet penchant for care and assistance to orphans Soviets got a first-hand look souvenirs with Western logos. 


FACUL7Y COURSE EVALUA710NS 

YOUR CHANCE 70 BE BEARD!! 
ALL DATA WILL BE TABULATED AND RESULTS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN A BOOKLET FOR YOUR BENEFIT 
• 
CHECK YOUR MAILBOX 

• 
7AKE A MINU7E TO FILL OUT THE FCE 

• 
YOU CAN OB7AIN 7HE NECESSARY COURSE INFORMA710N/NUMBERS FROM YOUR PAST SEMESTER'S REPORT CARD · 

• 
PLACE TBE RESULTS IN 7BE RECEPTACLES LOCATED IN 7BE LOBBY OF YOUR DORM BY FEB. 3 UDENT 





Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 1, 1990
page 8 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg•s Cocc1a  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  Molly K1llen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  .AI1son Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Biasi  Systems Mgr  Bernard Brennmkmeyer  
Photo Editor  ..Enc Ba1iey  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Chnsl!ne Gill  Controller  Anne L1ndner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty oi Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reilect the pol· 1c1es of the adm1n1strat•on of e1ther 1nstituhon The news is reported as accurately and ob· Ject•vely as poss1ble Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the ma1onty of the tollow1ng Ed•tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Ed1tor, Viewp01nt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor Accent Editor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor Commentanes. letters. and the lns•de Column present the views of the~r authors. Column space IS available to all members ot the commumty and the tree expression of vary1ng opin1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
LETTERS 

Censorship hinders mission of education 
Dear Editor: do this, one cannot present any sored to avoid contaminating
I am writing this letter in re­reasonable, well eonsidcred ar­young minds. Censorship in the sponse to Charles Hice, who gument for one's position, and name of religion. however, is fePis the University should not merely accepts that position on still censorship, and it is always present any speaker who does the word of others. The result dangerous. By restrieting the not hold Catholic positions (The is a person who is not well edu­range of ideas that can be con­Observer, .Jan. 21J). This view cated, is incapable of reasoning sidered, such a system seriously implies that the University or thinking for himself, and is impairs the ability and motiva­should only allow its students confident of his positions only tion of students to examine all to consider Catholic positions, in a self-righteous sense. sides of an issue, whieh, as since these positions are obvi­The purpose of a university is mentioned previously, is at the ously thtl only correct ones. to present it's students with an heart of an aeademic environ­
However. I contnst that this is opportunity to perform exactly ment. not only contrary to the mis­this type of reflection and ex­In order to produce well­sion of thn University, but also amination. As a result, the educated students and conform 
not in thn best interest of University must present a wide to its mission as a university. Catholic education. range of ideas. This will at Notre Dame must invite a wide 
Many times in my education, I times include ideas that the range of speakers, and this in­have hnard it stated that one University does not agree with. cludes Dr. Sol Gordon. must examine othnr points of Hice would have Notre Dame view and other positions in instead become an institution 
David Wirthman 
order to be confident of one's of Catholic indoctrination in 
Off-Campus 
own positions. If one does not which opposing views are een­
Jan.29. 1990 
Rockne remodeli inconveniences users 
Dear Hditor: the resulting benefits'! I eer­Once again. the University tainly did not need a new floor administration has failed to that makes you dizzy if you utilize the input of the look at it long enough. Nor do I population it should be doing appreciate the present ar­its best to serve. rangement of equipment which 
During semester break and has the benchpress next to the for tlw lirst two wePks of this only door in and out of thn term, tlw third floor weight weight room. 
room in the Hockn1~ Memorial I am not going to ask that the Building was closPd for n~mod­weight room be returned to its Piing. This past weekend it was ..,.Wii:i::;;..--""'"o...~""'"'-,. former arrangement (Although, opened again for regular use. lift weights themselves. I found it was better that way). I am Among the "improvements," it particularly frustrating to asking however, that the miss­thew is a new floor II liked the learn that the reeommllndations ing equipment, which is essen­old one better). a new rule of the weight room staff were tial to most workout routines,
prohibiting gym bags, eoats sought and, as it turns out, be returned to the weight room. 
and other necessary items from ignored. Instead of removing A negative situation such as 
entering the weight room and, only the old and rarely used 
this can be avoided in the fu­most importantly, a list of machines, the renovators pro­ture if the University would missing equipment essential to ceeded to remove maehines and 
simply subscribe to the basic most lifters' routines. Of equipment that virtually always marketing principles it pro­course, this equipmnnt tins had people waiting to use them. 
fesses in the elassroom by
partially disassembled in the The question which perplexes seeking the input of the stu­
corridors of "The Hock" where me the most in light of the out­dents whom its decisions ulti­it dons a lot of good. eome of this renovation is why mately affect. 
Obviously the person(s) re­was the weight room remod­Rich Saldana sponsible for deciding what eled'! It obviously cost over a Carroll 1/a/l equipment should stay do not thousand dollars, but what are Jan. 28.1990 

DOONESBURY 


Administrators rightly allow diversity 
Dear Editor: Personally, I do not agree 
Profnssor Charles Hiee seems with many of Dr. Gordon's to have misinterpreted the opinions on sexuality and love. University's priorities in his re­Yl't I appn~eiate that tlw eent letter to the editor. administration is willing to 
I agree that Notrn Dame provide impartial and must preserve its rich Catholic un prej udieed information from tradition. More importantly. both sides of an issue. however, the University must maintain its status as a I think I'll take Profl'ssor Catholie university. Hiee's advice and writP my 
Despite the fact that many mother to tell lwr what I'm 
conservative Catholics on earn­learning lwrn. Slw might apprP­pus may consider Dr. Sol riall~ th1~ fart that slw's not Gordon's lecture to be blas­paying fifteen thousand dollars phemous. it is the University's a year for a narrow-mindl'd obligation and duty to provide and bigotPd Pdueation. the Notre Dame community with a variety of perspeetiVPs 
Michael Du/Jay 
on a pressing topic in this Ynar 
Grace 1/a/1
of the Family. 
Jan ..W. /990 

NO athletic spirit neglects females 
/Jear h'ditor: fans who remained'! We sug­
Notre Dame rightly holds lec­gest the messagn was loud and tures on a host of vital. perti­clear when tlw Victory March nent topies which attempt to came to us via tape! Tnw, thn raise consciousness and serve exodus of the student body also 
as change catalysts for tomor­spoke volumes. but rmnembt~r. 
row's world. Ilowever, we sug­the band and cheerleading gest there are "home" justice squad arc sponson~d (financed)issues which need to be ad­and eontrollnd by the dressed on the eampus. University. 
One had only to witness the ThP band members and thn departure en masse of the cheerleading squad could bn band, all female cheerleaders split(neither volume nor enthu­and some of the male ones at siasm would suffer) and justiee the conclusion of the ND -and equality in one small area 
Miami game to recognize that on this campus would be not only many men but also served. many women focus only on Sister T.J. Burns N D 's male image. What mes­Therese Whitsell, !·i.P. sage was eonveyed to the Program For Church Leaders women's team as it took the 0 '/lara Grace Townhouse floor against DePaul and to the Jan. 28,1990 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 

IN 1901, 7HB U/3. ~7T<IJC1X3 70 COLOMB/A; IN 1902, TO PANAMA; IN 1903, HONPUIW3, /XJMINICAN 
/?£PU8UC ANI?m.NAMA; IN 1904, I?OMINICAN RePUBUCIW/? PAN4· 
t7!AI,,u-.....,;·1907,Ha.JPU/?A'3,­
BAOWCK. 

'Nowhere can man find a
Hf3.'5A 
HI570R.Y 

quieter or more untroubled 
NUT. 

retreat than in his own soul.'
I 



Marcus Aurelius 
(A.D. 121-180) 



Accent 
Popular music labelled Sex, rock, censorship obscene and racist 
COLLEEN CRONIN Due to the controversy over the ence favored the ban. 
assistant accent editor allegedly blasphemous video Two other major radio sta­
and a threatened boycott, Pepsi tions in South Bend, U93 and 
"Just say no" is a phrase all promptly pulled the commer­WAOR, did not join in banning Americans are acquainted with cial. Actually, the video was in­Guns N' Hoses. The program regarding drugs. But over the tended to be a statement director from U93 claimed, "It 
past two years. this has tran­against violence directed at is not fair to penalize the scended the drug realm into the blacks. group's fans for something the music realm. rock 'n' roll in Some of the outcries have had group did." He added that the particular. more concrete provocation. day after the incident at the 
All across the United States Poison's recent album, Open Up American Music Awards, sales music groups are being fined and Say ...Ahh!, had a less­of Guns N' Hoses skyrocketed. and arrested for offenses than-tasteful depiction of a cat­The group received the ranging from "dancing sugges­like person with an extremely publicity they were looking for, tively" to "promoting obscene long tongue that eventually fell and U93 did not want to albums." Recently, many of the victim to the black censor bar. contribute to that any further. 
nationally publicized incidents A few people will remember the 
have involved heavy-metal and controversy that raged over a John Vance from WAOR felt rap groups (Skid How and Dead Kennedys' album that in­the ban was simply a marketing Public Enemy), though cleaner, cluded a poster that was bla­move on WZZP's behalf and did top-forty oriented groups have tantly phallic. not want to give the group any 
also been attacked (Bobby It is not just the sexual ob­more free publicity. "Yeah, 
Brown), as well as relatively scenity that the anti-rock they're disgusting, and kids obscure progressive groups groups are targeting. Many shouldn't hear the 'F-word' on (The Cure and XTC). groups have been denounced television or at all. But there 
For the past five years, the for satanic messages and have been worse: guys urinat­music industry has been inun­causing kids to commit suicide. ing on airplanes and throwing dated with requests by the Springsteen is targeted because up on stage." Parents Music Hesource Center of hishit-single "Dancing in the In the South Bend area, cen­(PMRC). Tipper Gore's project, Dark" from his record-breaking sorship is not obvious. A few of as well as various anti-rock Born in the USA album. The the local record stores have groups with govnrnment and PMHC claims the song contains been asked by customers to pull religious affiliations, to crack satanic messages. particular albums, but instead 
down on certain albums. Hecently, Guns N' Roses was the store will just not display Record stores have been asked dropped from an AIDS benefit the album where it is obvious to to stop selling "obscene" al­concert because of their song all who enter. They will still bums to people under 17, or to "One In A Million" which con­carry the album. No record 
stop selling them altogether. tains many racial as well as store has had any major upris­
Many storns require identifica­sexual slurs. Another incident ings over an album. 
tion if the customer is buying involving Guns N' Hoses oc­Whether to ban rock 'n' roll 
one of these obscene albums. curred during the recent or censor it or put warning 
So far. no concrete definition American Music Awards. While stickers on albums has been a 
of "obscene" has been offered, on live television, a certain pro­heated debate which is sure to but the targeted artists include fane word slipped by the cen­continue. As Frank Zappa Prince, LL Cool .1, Simply Hed, sors. and as a result, many ra­stated at a presentation of anti­Tina Turner. Madonna and dio stations refused to play PMRC petitions to the Justice 
Bruce Springsteen. Guns N' Hoses. Department in September, "Can 
Madonna ent!~red the national WZZP in South Bend imposed I say this? Yes. Can I sing a news last March when Pepsi their ban immediately. It was to song about this? Maybe. Will aired a commercial featuring be indefinite, but was reduced anybody play my song on the her and the next day her "Like to one week after a listener poll radio or allow it to be sold in a A Prayer" video made its debut. showed that only half the audi-record store? Probably not." 


Voices of faith promise a spiritual experience 
CHELSEA LATIMER 
accent writer 

A group of peopln take slow. inharmonious steps as they pass Washington flail. They stop as they hear harmonious singing and words of praise. These sounds now from the mouths of the Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble preparing for their concert which will be held on Feb. 4. 
A distinct voice can be heard rising from the melodious sounds. This voice belongs to Sister Thea Bowman. a black Catholic nun who has previously made public appearances at ND. She may also be heard this Sunday at 7 p.m. with the ehoir. 
The choir consists of 60 members who all enjoy singing for the Lord. The aspirations of the choir are to enrich the Notre Dame community through the expression of Gospel music and to establish and sustain a spiritual link between the Notre Dame and South back to bless us once again, health watch," said Camille Horne. members of an audience. Their disso­Bend Christian communities. permitting. Spreading her spirituality This special concert will challenge nance will transform into melodious 
The Gospel Ensemble has traveled to through books, lectures and passionate people to learn something new about clapping and singing as they feel the many South Bend churches as well as to singing, Sister Bowman has received na­the_mselves, their spirituality and black spirit billowing inside Washington Hall. Gary and Kingsford Heights, Ind., and tional exposure including an appearance spirituality. "People shouldn't be ashamed or em­Kalamazoo, Mich. "Over the past three on "60 Minutes." Even though she has "Last year, I attended many of the barrassed if they feel the urge to stand years, the choir has grown miraculously, cancer, she still believes she is safe in choir's concerts. Their enthusiastic up or clap. We invite you to," said and we are continuing to work hard to God's arms. "Safe in His Arms" is the performances inspired, taught and Regina Steele, a director of the choir. secure that spiritual link between Notre theme of the glorious evening. The motivated me to join this year. I am If you are safe in His arms, please join Dame and South Bend," said the secre­tender image of resting in God's hands proud to say I am now a member and the Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel tary, Sonya Smith. Five area church secures all who live with God. not just an observer," claimed Lisa Ensemble, Sister Thea Bowman, and choirs were invited to join the gospel "We are much more than a singing Robinson. South Bend Church choirs in singing of choir and sing of their blessings. group. We are working for God. We are If the group of people walking by the security He gives to all of us. 
If you did not see and feel the spirit working toward God. You have to decides to come in, they will become a On Feb. 4 at 7 p.m., do not just pass by of Sister Bowman last year, she will be participate in our concert, not just part of the celebration instead of Washington Hall. Walk in. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1990 
Thomas claims he is not the only Bear guilty of drug use 
own stated policies, the three was uncertain whether they ac-prised to hear the allegation, "There was no preferential 
Chicago Bears running back received no mandatory counsel-tually tested positive, but was which he said "will be treated treatment." 
Calvin Thomas, who served a ing or treatment. sure they would have been no-by Bears management as un­Thomas, a reserve running 
30-day drug suspension two CIIICAGO (APJ -Former 

Under league policy, a first tified of such a result and with substantiated. Until evidP-nce back and special teams player years ago, said he saw four positive result subjects a player that assistance, apparently arises, the claim is sP-en as pure for six years with Chicago, was to counseling and "probable managed to steer clear of vio-speculation. Also, the club one of 30 players suspended
teammates getting high on 

cause" testing, without the lating the league's substance-completely denies the accusa­over the last two seasons after
drugs just days before a sched­

name being revealed to the abuse program. tion that a coverup of players' a second positive test for either
uled 1987 drug test. 

But Thomas said the players, public. A second-time offender "They were guys who had drug tests occurred." marijuana, cocaine or alcohol. 
who he declined to identify, is suspended for 30 days and been on the team," Thomas NFL spokesman Joe Browne He said he was not notified 
undergoes drug-rehabilitation said of the players he witnessed reached in Hawaii at the Pro that he had tnsted positive in
were steered clear of sub­

stance-abuse problems with the treatment. A third-time of-using drugs several days before Bowl said, "Confidentiality is the 1987 test until he was 
fender is banned for life, the August 1987 test. the cornerstone of the league callnd into the Bnars' front of­
assistance of the team -help 

though he can apply for min-"I asked the guys, 'Don't you policy and whether or not this fice in Septnmbnr 1988 and no­
he daims he nnver was given. 

statement one year after ban-know this (test) is coming up'?' incident occurred, players wern tifind of his suspnnsion bncause
Thomas' charges come on the 

ishment. They just kept on doing it. treated and counseled and ad-of a sncond positivr. tnst rnsult
hnels of a televised report dur­

Thomas said Tuesday that he "None of thosn guys were vised on an individual casn-by-in 1988.
ing Super Bowl week in which 

Washington station WJLA said believed his four teammatP-s suspended," he added. "I don't case basis. And whether it was Thomas' second positivn tnst. 
positive cocaine tests on three had tested positive in the 1987 know if they were told or a frontline player such as taken during training camp in 
"star" white quarterbacks test, but softened that state-what." Dexter Manley, or a backup 1988, revealed substantial 
went unheeded by the league 

ment Wednesday. Bears spokesman John such as Calvin Thomas, they all traces of cocaine in his urinr.. and that contrary to the N FL's 
lie said Wednesday that he Bostrom said the club was sur-received equal treatment. 
·1 htl Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.

Classifieds 

FUNK/DANCE BAND seeks bass the survey asks "judy, are you Joe. Thom. Barnie. Brian. Chris­player and horns. Contact Brad @ 
single NOW?" ..... Good luck with the Revue I !I!! We
NOTICES 1. wANT~~-...---II~_nc_m_s___, 
277·3666 or 283-3745. 
are looking forward to Saturday night. We hope you put on a goodCAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, Do you have two SATURDAY night Word Processing hiag CLUB 23 show. but a better party!!!! Break asleepaway camp. Massachusetts. Keenan Review tickets you wouldCan return on disk 

Some key positions avail. Also: trade for two THURSDAY night leg'
Pick up and delivery Had a party lately? Spilled " 
Offering our specialty Katie, Molly, Lisa. Debbie. Jeanne. 271·9114 refreshments" on your carpet? Call MIDDLE EAST CUISINE and Molly
WSI, lifeguard, arts & crafts. all tickets? Please call Matt at 283· 
land and water sports, fitness, 1961 and leave a message. 
SPARKLING Open for dinner 5 ·11 pmgymnastics. piano/play for shows.
BE YOUR OWN BOSS' CLEANERS Monday to Saturday HELLO MAMBA. DANNY AND drama, judo, dance, tennis, WANTED: 2 KEENAN REVUE TIX 
Distributorships, Dealerships, to have your carpets cleaned. 
MARY!!!

archery, photography. computers, FOR SAT NIGHT. WILL TRADE 
Money making opportunities. call Mark or Cesar at 283­GREETINGS & SALUTATIONS!! 
SHEILAH MCFADDEN SORRY model rocketry. guitar. radio. 2 TIX FOR FRI NIGHT. CALL

Franchises. & Mail order. Detail, 1584! 
YOU GUYS ARE TOO THE TESTS WERE POSITIVEvideo, yearbook, newspaper. JOHN AT 1158. 

send $2.00 to: National Marketing MARVELOUS FOR WORDS!! 

BUT HAPPY YOU ARE FINE NOWwilderness. woodwork. RN typist. WANTED: Ride to PGH on FEB 2! 
Company, Box 3006. Boston. MA. 
MAY THE SCHWARTZ BE WITH 6/18-8/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 HELP ME OUT!!! I WILL TRADE Call x288002130 YOU!!

Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY MY TWO FRIDAY TICKETS FOR THE CLUB 23 10707. 800/955-CAMP. KEENAN REVIEW FOR TWO RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has TYPING AVAILABLE DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIESSATURDAYTICKETS. CALL rooms for Graduation weekend. Featuring up & coming bands. 
287·4082 -FRIDAY·

SUMMER JOBS CHRIS AT X. 1692. THANKS!! Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 Don't miss our evening 
9:00 GHOSTBUSTERSALL LAND/WATER SPORTS deposit per room. Send letter to specials.

CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS t 1 :30 SLAP SHOT 

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart. IN 234·3541 'MO'
regardless of condition. 277·9954. 
·SATURDAY·

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS GEORGIA TECH JOHN X3853 46514 or Call219-262·1581. NEAR LAKE PLACID GEORGE B FROM KEENAN­
9:00 GHOSTBUSTERS II USED TEXTBOOKS 
11 :30 VISION OUEST 

CALL 1·800·343·8373 I NEED 4 Georgia· TECH TIX WINTERFEST TOURNAMENTS Tell us about those 
AT A DISCOUNT! 
FREE'PLEASE CALL DON X1723 23 inches. You said it was thePandora's Books 233·2342 ...AND CHECK OUT THE NEW Earn $300·$500 per week reading biggest on campus.

corner of N.D. ave. and Howard books at home. Call1·615·473· SIGN-UPS MENU AT DILLON FOODSALES. 

PERSONALS
7 440 Ext. B340 
I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 BROOMBALl. VOLLEYBALl. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! 

ADOPTION 6299. Doctor & artist. happily married. 
A PAGE. CALL TANYA AT 239· 

I want a ride to Champaign.IL on FLAG FOOTBALL (and Groundhog's Day Eve) 
Daytona Beach! 
212. $$$. Doug X2358. 

warm. seek white newborn to love 
Largest trip 
BRIDGET MURPHY MAIL BOXES ETC. and cherish. Legal, confidential. 

on campus

WANTED: 4·6 players to start SUB OFFICE 
Please call Hanna & Mark collect AD&D campaign. II interested call MON.· WED. 5·7 P.M. love.
Shipping, Copies. Cards. 

Laser Quality For (212) 864·5512 
8 pm Feb 7 . 

Bob at x1797. DoylePapers. Reports. Resumes. Etc. 
••••••••wrNTERFEsr••• 
LaFortune Theater 

Parrot Heads Forever !!! Market Discover credit cards on 
277-MAIL 

284·4407 Jennifer your campus. Flexible hours. Earn TOURNAMENTS. BENDIX 
KEYBOARD1ST wanted to join as much as $1 0/hr. Only 1 0 WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY. ICE CHARITY BALL MEETING 
established high-energy positions available. Call 1·800· SKATING. ALL-NIGHT MOVIES
progressive rock/dance band. 
FOR RENT: 4 Bedroom home 

950-8472, Ext. 3028. 6pm Sun.Feb 4 Sorin Rm 
Good equipment and attitude a 
very clean, w /range, refrigerator, 
Gays and Lesbians Lafortune 
fireplace, AC

must, backing vocals a plus. SUBWAY SANDWICHES '""'"WINTERFEST"" All interested in helping with the at Notre Dame/St. Mary's 1019 E. Madison-Near NOP.O. Box 194 All interested contact: ball or corporate sponsors areDennis #3281 ... Brian #1804 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
Studenl Ro~le AI S2001'bt-dnn. -1 mo. 

Delivery driver · ND/SMC FEBRUARY 4 · 10"'''"" welcome to join us.
283-4256 
call 232-5563 

campuses only. We need you. so give and have a Good rate + tips. ball!
POW/MIA BRACELETS-order in 277-7744 You heard them as 
GOTCHA 

dining halls now! Sponsored by Life Is Elsewhere, now re-live the PLAY THE SURVIVAL GAME SUMMER JOBS 
Assasinate your friends and Arnold Air Society potJNSELORS • Boys Camp, W. Mass.
rockumentary.
win BIG$$$. I Girls Camp, Maine
FOR RENT 

INTRA VENUS DE MILO
Don't miss your chance to Top Salary, RmiBdllaundry, Travel 
McCormicks ...... Saturday night to play. Call x2046. 
Allowance.
BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 

POW/MIA BRACELETS-order Must love kids and have skill in one of"...it goes to eleven ..." Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, yours today! 
the following activilles: includes meals, parties, NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball,accomodations, some rooms haveLOST/FOUND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 SEAN BROWN ... I'm sorry Basketball, Bicycling, Cheljr1eading,INTRA VENUS de MILO kitchens. leaves from Ft.

people think you put that Dance, Drama, Drums. Fencing, Golf,"bring needles ..." Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, 
4 Bdrm home for rent puijar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback,
6 days Jamaica $369. Spring1122 Blyler Place personal in for yourself. They Karate, lacrosse. Nature, Nurses,LOST ·Maryland License Plate· Break Travel 1·800-638·6786.

(616)695-3786 are just jealous-especially Photography. Plano. Radio, Rocketry,"IRISH91". Reward. X1745. 
A Ia nageuse.
JOEY DIMBERIO because I 
Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY didn't put one in yet for his 
Ouelle bonne forme vous exhibez HOLY SPIRIT, YOU WHO MAKE 
Soccer. Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, en maillot! ME SEE EVERYTHING. AND 219·291·7153. B'day on February 4th. 
Weights, Wood. Men call or write:Lost: set of roomkeys with GAVE ME THE DIVINE GIFT TO Camp Wlnadu, 5 Glen lane, Anyway, both of you have1988 National Championship FORGIVE AND FORGET THE Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914)awesome 21st B'days!!!!!l 

keyring. II found please call 

FOR SALE 
I need Tickets to the NO-Georgia WRONG THAT IS DONE TO ME. I, 
381-5983. Women call or write: CampI hope this clears things up! 

x1419 Tech Men's B·ball game. John IN SHORT, WANT TO THANK 

Vega, P.O. Box 1n1. Duxbury, MA '''SENIORs··· 
x3584 YOU AND TELL YOU I NEVER 
02332 (617) 934·6536. 

WANT TO BE SEPARATED FROM 26days until....
Lost: Men's Signet Ring YOU OR MY LOVE ONES INSENIOR FORMAL BIDS SALE!II 

lnitialsDTC 

DEC 350 Computer INTERNATIONAL YOUR PERPETUAL GLORY. 
Need a date?
Call David x4779 with IBM compatible printer. FESTIVAL Say 3 days before asking your

Come to SR.! Alumni Club Tues. Everything included. $500. wish. Then publish publication. Has
Feb. 13 for "Got a date/Need a
LOST?: II you have a navy & tan 

Call 271-9810. SATURDAY 213/90 never been known to fail.
date" night!!! 
leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag 7:30PM MMN that doesn't belong to you. 

WASHINGTON HALL Get ready for some LOVIN' !I!
PLEASE return ill Contained 

Encyclopaedia Britannica. SOPHOMORES
LOVEFEST IS BACK I!
checkbook, Sharp graphic Immaculate. Plus year books Tickets $2 available at the calculator. and MANY other and Annals of America collection. ISO Office and at the valuble items! REWARD-no $500. 271·9810 LaFortune Information Desk 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/

If in need have faith and pray to questions asked! Please call 283· SOPHOMORESSaint Jude. 
DArTOU BEACH '"""lf29•
4354 For sale: Commodore computer. INTERNATIONAL 

7 NIGHTS 

disk drive. printer, accessories and FESTIVAL TODAY IS THE LAST 
One more time 
SOUTH PADIIISIAIID """'lf29 • 
5 0117 NIGHTS
tons o' software. Best offer-must MR. E at Bridget's 

go. John x3584 DAY TO SIGN UP FOR THE 
LOST: II you have a navy &tan Liz come out and stay out on thurs. 
mAMsOAr -•ror· 
2, 5 011 7 NIGHTS

RIDE NEEDED: Cols. OH leave that doesn't belong to you, MR. E starts at 10. 
Claiborne leather shoulder bag Drinking starts when you get there! 
212, return 2/4 Call Laura SKI TRIP 
FOITIAUDIIDAJI '"""lfJJ• 
7 NIGHTS

PLEASE return it! Contains many STEREO: 110w/ch, dual deck, 284·4322 $$ IN THE SOPHOMORE CLASS 
HltrtJfl HOD ISJAIID """lf27•

3 way spks.1 0 bd eq.. seperate OFFICE 2ND FLOOR OF 
valuble items, including Sharp AVOID THE RUSH! 
7 NIGHTS

tuner/amp,turntable,case. LAFORTUNE
Graphic calculator. checkbook, AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! Hi L!l 
COIPUS Cllllm I 
HARDLY USED! IMMACULATE!

etc I REWARD· no questions COME IN TO THE OBSERVER Have you gotten anymore long, 
IUSTAIIC ISWID """'199 •
Call Tony 289·8020. MUST

asked I PLEASE call 283·4354 SOON TO ENTER YOUR cylindrical things lately? Have you 
5 011 7 NIGHTS
SEE!

anytime! VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. slept on campus lately? What 
CALL 10LL FIIEE 10ll'IY 

about that man's drawers ... Did you 
NO SPORTS wall calendar now Needed: Anyone with any form BROTHER MICHAEL. 


1·800·321·5911

find what you needed there? I 
only $5.001 Includes action of electronic percussion/drum The students are all over the
LOST: I lost my camera at hope you did. If all else fails. 
machine/sampler/4· PLACE!!! And there is
photos &sporting event schedules. Mail order to: track/keyboard for temporary NAH·thing the staff can do!!!
Pop Farley on Saturday night. remember the rules of economics 
II you find it, please call John and ma.rketing, and that recipe J 
Q/

AND BOOKS,702 S.Michigan experimentaliindustrial/performan With affection. 
at x1453. Thankyou. gave you, and you'll go far, maybe 
'Depending on btl~k d~tts ~nd ~ngtn of stJt'

South Bend.46618 ce art project. Call Jason at x3677. Flanner Staff 
even all the way to the top!!! 

w= --­


Thursday, February 1, 1990 
-

Hornets give Harter his walking papers 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. (AP)­ing over a good team. My The Charlotte Hornets fired last situation, I took over a head coach Dick Harter on bad team." Wednesday and named as­Little's said he found out sistant coach Gene Littles about 6:15p.m., 75 minutes as interim coach. before the Hornets played 
"At the present time, Mr. the Spurs in San Antonio. (George) Shinn and I felt "It was tough for George that a coaching change was to make the decision," necessary," said team Littles said. ''I'm sure they president and general wanted Dick to stay and 
manager Carl Scheer in a they wanted things to im­statement released to the prove." media. Team spokesman Bo 
"The decision wasn't Hussey said Shinn and 
made due to our wins and Scheer flew to San Antonio losses, we know that the Wednesday afternoon, building process is a long where the llornets played one and that was not a fac­the Spurs, but were unable tor. But the development of to land because of fog and our younger players and headed back to North the team is our priority, Carolina. and with that in jeopardy, a Littles r.ould not explain r.hange was necessary," why the transition took Scheer said. place the way it did. 
Harter. 58, was 8-32 this "I don't think they antici­season and 28-92 in 1 1/2 pated getting rid of him," years with the NBA expan­Littles said. "Dick came sion team. here (San Antonio) with the 
"A coach is a key member intention of coaching the of an organization. I hire team." skill1~d people thinking that they can do the job and give Harter, who was not them thP frePdom to do available for comment. had their job." llornets owner been critidzed over the last George Shinn said. "A skill few days by Shinn, Scheer that a coach must have is and s1weral players, notably eommunir.ation and it came guard Hex Chapman. to the point wlwre I !'ouldn't, as the owner, WBT Hadio, which 
AP Photo 

communieate with Dick and broadcasts the team's 
The Pittsburgh Penquins' star Mario Lemieux became the NHL'S' highest paid player when he was granted a 
I know that hP had lost his games, reported that 
salary of $2 million a year, plus deferred payments. 
communication link with llarter met with his players the playPrs." in a closed meeting earlier Littles will begin his sec­Wednesday. 
Lemieux earns highest NHL salary
ond stint as an interim .coach as he compiled a 4-At tlw meeting, the radio 11 n~eord for tlw ClevPiand station reported. Harter 
Kings' Gretzky no longer the best paid player in hockey
Cavaliers in the 1985-86 also disr.ussed the death of TOHONTO (APl -'Mario points this season, is the third­"It puts us all on equal foot­sPason whPn he replaced his older brother. John highest paid. He earns ing," Goodenow said. "The
Lemieux, who scored four goals in the recent NIIL All-Star $500,000 plus $450,000 in de­owners compared information
Georg1~ Karl. Harter. of Vero Beach. 
"This is nothing com­Fla.. who died on freely the and
game, is hockey's highest paid ferred payments. (in past) we player. St. Louis' Bret Hull, who is never had the information. 
pared to my last interim Wed1wsday following a 
job." Littles said. ''I'm tak-long bout with cancer. According to a list of NHL leading the league with 45 "I think they (NHL players) salaries obtained Monday by goals, is earning only $125,000 looked at baseball and saw the Canadian Press, the Pitts­this season. But this is the last that, when the salaries 
were burgh Penguins' star has a year of Hull's four-year disclosed, it wasn't such a hor­
con­base salary of $2 million a year tract and the Blues forward rific thing. They saw it could plus some deferred payments. can count on a big increase actually help them increase 
That's even more than Wayne when he negotiates a new pact. their salaries. All it can do is Gretzky of the Los Angeles "I think they (St. Louis) are help." Kings, hockey's all-time leading pretty happy with the con­The list, which was completed point scorer. Gretzky earns tract," says Hull's agent, last week, shows two Soviet $1.72 million a year. lawyer Bob Goodenow of De­players, Igor Larionov and Mark Messier of the Edmon­troit. Vladimir Krutov, are the high­ton Oilers is the only other mil­A copy of NHL base salaries est paid players on the Vancou­





MCAT 
lionaire in the Nlll.. The Ed­obtained by The Canadian Press ver Canucks. They earn indicates inequity will be a hot
monton Oiler center earns $375,000 (Canadian) each. $990,700 (Canadian) plus topic of discussion around the The list also shows that Doug 
$42,800 in deferred payments. league. Wickenheiser, who was recently But while he is the third mil­Goodenow was recently hired demoted to the minor league by lionaire in hockey, actually by the NHL Players' Association the Washington Capitals, is 
Messier is the fourth-highest as the eventual successor to ex­probably the lowest-paid player paid player in the league. ecutive director Alan Eagleson. in a major league team sport. Dave Taylor of the Kings, And he says he favors salary Wickenheiser is shown to have who has nine goals and 23 disclosure. a base salary of only $25,000. 

music 
at 
with spinning Wli~il by 
=====64
"the 


TIM F.~~~.. en z 
THE ~ (0)=2 HOUSE rPARTV I­
I­
W~lH [))J 9§ 
:::J 

Roy Landry m 
& 
w 

"smokin'" Joe Watson w 


a a: 
first 200 people thru the door each nite get LL
y 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1990
-
No. 8 Purdue beats No. 4 Michigan to stay atop Big Ten 
Jones' 23 points leads Boilermakers to win ·' ·· ~.,.. 

i\NN i\HBOH, Mich. (i\1') ­Tony Jones scored 2:3 points and No. H Purdue tighterwd its grip on first plan~ in the Big Ten with a convincing 91-73 win over No. 4 Michigan Wednesday night. 
Purdw~ ( 16-2, H-0) shot a tor­rid 70 perepnt and extended its winning streak to nine games, matching the mark of thP 1936 Boilerrnaker squad which also won its first night conference games. 
Michigan (15-4, 5-31 had its Crisler i\rpna win streak snappPd at 10 games. The de­fending NCAA champions shot 50 pPrctmt. 
Tlw BoilPrrnakPrs, tlw only 

Illinois' Henson stands by Collins 
Clli\MPAICN: Ill. (i\Pl ­Illinois haskPtball coach Lou flpnson is standing by .Jimmy Collins, his rhiPf rPrruitPr, who has bPPn a kPy figurP in allega­tions of irrPgularities in bas­kPthall rPnuiting at the school. 
An NCAA inwstigation is lw­liPvPd to haw Pmled Ttwsday and Illinois is Pxpecting a lettPr of ofTidal inquiry from tlw as­sudation latPr this wel'k. 
Illinois will have approxi­matPiy 60 days to respond to any chargPs. 
"I belif~VP in Jimmy, I'm I00 percent supportive of him through this," llt'nson said WPd nesday. "Anyone rnigh t inadvnrtPntly brPak a rule in recruiting, but it will bt~ a sur­prisn to nw if a major rule was 
brokt~n." 
The NCAA has bPnn checking into possibiP irrPgularities in undefeated team in the Big Ten. made live of six 3-pointt~rs and 16-of-20 free throws. 
Humeal Hobin,;on led Michigan with 17 points, but had only one basket and a pair of free throws in the seeond half. 
Purdue, which led 47-38 at halftime. jumped to a 55-42 lfHtd with 16:04 left in the game. But the Wolverirws, get­ting live points from Denwtrius Calip, went on a 10-0 run t<l' narrow it to three points with 
13:59 remaining. 
The Boilermakers respondPd with another run. led by Jones' six points, and took a 68-52 lead with 7:39 (pft while 
tlw recruitment of 6-f'oot-9 forward [)pon Thomas, a 19HIJ graduatP of Chicago Simeon who had hPPn onP of tlw na­tion's top prPp prospects. 
Iowa assistant roarh Brut·e I'Parl has givl'n tlw NCAA a tapP reeording of a telephonp convPrsation in which Thomas rPportedly said hn rPeeived $HO,OOO and a ear for attl'nding Illinois. 
Thomas, a frt~shman, has bPPn withheld from c·ompetition this season by tlw Fighting lllini pnnding completion of the probe. 
In another development, Notrl' Dame's LaPhonso Ellis reportedly has told the NCAA that lw was of'fpred an auto­mobile and an $85,000 package to attend Illinois. Ellis gradu­atnd in 19H8 from East St. Louis, Ill., Lincoln aftpr ltmding 

Broncos' Dorsett ends 13-year career in NFL 
DI\NVI\H (API Tony Dorsett has made it official: lin is retiring after 13 seasons as an NFL running back. 
But although Dorsett says it's official with him. it is not offi­cial with tlw I>PnvPr Broncos. 
"I read Tony's commt~nts in tlw papl'r, but I don't bnlievl' at this point that lw has inforrnnd (Coat·h) Dan Htwves of that," Jim Saccomano, Bronco's spokesman, said Wednesday. 
Dorsett. a virtual lock for tlw NFL's flail of Fame aftpr fin­ishing his carPPr as tlw lf~agun's No. 2 all-tirnP rusher with 12.731J yards, sat out this past sPason af'tl'r undPrgoing n~con­strurtive k1wn surgPry as a rP­sult of a training ramp injury. It was his sPcond season in Dmlvl'r aftm I I vears with tlw Dallas Cowboys. · 
''I'm through," Dorsett told tlw Hocky Mountain NI'WS in a tl'lnphorw intPrview from his Dallas honw on Tuesday. "It's official. I don't have any im­mndiate plans except to rnlax. I want to try to get my knee back to normal." 
Dorsett indicated earlinr this month that his career most likely was over, and said hP hopnd to get a job in broadcasting. 
Saeromano said that it was understood in the Bronco's camp that this was Dorsett's last year with the team due to "age and a lot of factors," but Saecomano said he doesn't know if Dorsett has "visited with Dan Heeves yet." 
"Not unlike if one person says to anotht•r: 'Gen I'm going to quit my job...'. That's all well and good but you need to tPII tiH' employer," Saecomano said. 
But Saccomano insisted that 
Dorsett's "unofficial oflieial rn­
tirement" was not a problem. 
l~xpncted to join Dorsett on tlw Broncos' retirement list was offensive guard Keith 
Bishop. 

FULL SERVICE FLORIST  
Balloon  Plants  Bouquets  
Bouquets  Corsages  Arrangement  
Dish Gardens  Boutonnieres  Fresh and Sil  

~----------------------,
110°/o OFF CASH AND CARR\'1 


L-~t!'-~~£.2r.tJ.P..!ll!r!~'!U.O_J 
'llle Q-oepl... ..... SOUtb ol Unlvt:nlty Pa'll Midi Hlatunnk.a. IM 48M~ 

5901 Grape Rd.

277-1291 

Michigan went scoreless on nine consecutive possessions over a 5:08 span. 
Ryan Berning scored five of his nine first-half points in the first 5:35 of the game, including one of Purdue's four 3-point baskets in the half, as the Boilermakers took control early and jumped out to a 16-6 lead. 
The Wolverines, behind the shooting of Hobinson. twice narrowed the deficit to five points. But the Boilermakers, shooting 70.4 percent. led 43­32 on a 3-pointer by Clyburn with 2:33 left in the first half and were ahead by nine when the period ended. 
the school to suecl'ssive Class 
AA Illinois High School cham­
pionships. 
Collins, barred from rl'cruit­ing until the mattl'r is snttll'd, disputl's the aiiPgations. 
''I've bt~Pn a straightforward recruitl'r," lw said. "I hawn't done anything to violate tlw NCAA ruins." 
During a Big Ten coarhes tPieconfnrnncl' TuPsday. Collins said of the ordeal: ''I'd be lying if I said it has bPPn a vacation. 
It's been very tough because we've been instructed by the NCM not to say anything. 
AP Photo 

Pearl. who has said Iowa did No. 1 ranked Missouri outlasted Iowa State Wednesday while No. 8not turn Illinois in for the re­Purdue clobbered No.4 Michigan 91-73. In other action, Duke edged
cruitment of Thomas, says he 
Clemson 94-80, Arkansas slipped past Rice 70-66, Georgia downed
taped the conversation with 
Auburn 88-75, Xavier nipped Cincinnati in overtime 90-88, and NorthThomas to protect himself be­Carolina State soundly defeated Virginia 84-58. The Boilermakers wincause Iowa had bPen accused of cements their hold of first place in the Big Ten.
illegal recruiting practices. 

Thursday, February 1, 1990 
even if she could not have played basketball.



Hoops 
"I had decided to come here continued from page 16 even before I was offered a 
scholarship," said Liebscher, scorer's role vacated by who considered academics first llaysbert. and has enough former Domers 
Liebscher agreed with her in her family to form a sepa­coach's assessment but added rate alumni club. "It just fell that focusing on certain moves into place when I could play during practice aided her tran­basketball," Liebscher said. si lion. Liebscher added that since 
"We didn't change our game she was not heavily recruited, plan at all, but I was looking she had doubts about her abili­for the shot more," Liebscher ties upon entering Notre Dame said. "And then in the practice her freshman year. Once she before the Evansville game, I arrived, however, Liebscher re­worked on moves to the basket alized that with then first year a lot. I guessed it helped." coach Muffet McGraw, she had 
While the Davenport, Iowa an equal opportunity to prove native may have surprised some herself. pnople with her scoring out­After learning the ropes burst. Liebscher's rebounding freshman year and gradually abilities have been well-known increasing her playing time, for some time. In the past eight Liebscher stepped into a start­contests, Liebscher has totalled ing role last year. She lead the 79 boards-an unexpected stat team with an .818 free throw for a backcourt player. percentage and made substan­
"Sara has always been an ag­tial contributions in all aspects gressive rcbounder," McGraw of the game. said. "She instinctively seems to McGraw explained that she know where the ball is going to views Liebscher's role on the bfl. Oftentimes she's not team as low-key, consistent blocked out because people kind of player who is well-re­don't expnct her to be there." spected by her teammates. 
For Liebscher, positioning "Sara is our scholar athlete," hnrself in the dangerous jungle said McGraw of the Academic of flying elbows beneath the All-American nominee. "The basknt is not an unfamiliar team respects her because she task. works so hard at everything. 
"I played post in high school She's not a big talker but just and had to rebound," Liebscher goes out and does it." commented, "so I know how to As for Liebscher's contribu­box out and where the ball is tions this year, McGraw added corning off." that in the pre-season, she 
While attending Assumption never expected the guard's role High in Davenport, Liebscher to expand as it has. scornd 1.400 career points and "She has a good shot and we SPt 15 sehool records while wanted her to score more, but earning all-state honors three we never expected she'd be as 
The Observer I Steve Moskop 
times and All-American honor­rebounding as much," McGraw 
Junior forward Krissi Davis has been asserting herself in the paint for the Notre Dame women's basketball
able mention her senior year commented. "She had good 
stats for a point guard and we team this year. She recorded her first double-double last Thursday on the road against Xavier, scoring 12
from USA Today and other na­
points and grabbing 12 rebounds. The 5'9 Davis is averaging 11.1 points per game and 6.9 rebounds,
tional publications. Yet surpris­didn't think we'd need her to 
helping the Irish to a 11-6 record overall and a perfect 6-0 MCC record.
ingly, Liebscher says she would score as much. It's been a big havn enrolled in Notre plus." 
NBAs' Stern rules on Knicks buzzer-beater 
(API -NBA Commissioner Stern said that the error by David J. Stern ruled Wednesday the off1cials was one of judge­that officials erred by allowing ment, not a misapplication of 
a game-winning shot that gave the rules, and therefore not a the New York Knicks a less­sufficient basis for overturning than-last-seeond victory over the game. the Chicago Bulls but refused to "The NBA has consistently overturn the game. denied protests on errors in 
Stern, however. said a new judgement by the game offi­directive on last-second shots cials," Stern said. should prevent a similar situa­Under NBA procedures, a 
tion in the future. protest may be· sustained only 
The Bulls had contended that in the event of a violation or officials in the Jan. 15 game misapplication of a playing between the teams in New York rule, the release said. should have disallowed the "We believe we had a merito­game-winning three-point shot rious case and the commis­by Trent Tucker, who reeeived sioner didn't, thus the matter is an inbounds pass by Mark closed," said Jerry Krause, vice Jackson with one-tenth of a president of basketball opera­second left. tions for the Bulls. 
"The question before me is "The unfortunate irony of 
not whether Tueker received this case, of eourse, is that the Jackson's pass and released his League implemented the tenths­shot within one-tenth of a sec­of-a-seeond clock to assist the ond -plainly, he did not," referees in officiating exactly Stern said in a prepared state­the type of split-second, end-of­ment released from NBA head­game sequence which occurred quarters. here," Stern said. 
Happy Belated 21st 
JlEFF SM~TH WHAT A GUY 
Love (your little sis) Kate 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··-----­

Duke 
continued from page 16 
excited about racing in such an environment." 
Both the men and women have recent wins giving them momentum going into this weekend's road trip. Each Irish squad is currently on a live­meet winning streak, dating back to the middle of January and eontinuing through a grueling home and road sched­ule. 
After the teams return on Sunday, they will eontinue preparations for the MCC Championships. to be held in Holfs Aquatic Center on Feb. S­
10. The championships arn a full three-day meet. eompletl' with trials and finals. 
Ed Veome continul's to seon~ points for the men in tlw diving events whiln Tom Penn, Bill JackoboirP, Dave Thoman and Tom Whowell have been scoring 

The Observer I David Lee points in tho 400-nwdley rday. 
Notre Danw has also bi'Pn Carolina State. The meets will be the squads' first clashes with Atlantic Coast Conference opponents as getting strong individual Notre Dame's men's and women's swimming teams will head east this weekend to face Duke and North 

Thursday, February 1, 1990 
lim Welsh 
Cornick in the 200-yard fnwstyle, .Jim Birmingham in the 50-yard lhwstyle and .John Godfn•y in the 200-yard barkstroke. 
It comes as no surprise that Tanya Williams contintws to rack up points for tlw wompn's squad. And, slw has bPen g<'t­ting sornn lwlp from .Jenny Kipp in tlw diving ewnts and Susan Bohan in tlw distancP ewrrts. 
All will bP factors as tlw Irish tP<llllS hPad toward tlw most rhaiiPnging st.agn of tlwi r sPa­sons. 
"\Vp want to <~oncludP our dual nwPt season with an Pxrit­ing nwPt," said Welsh.

they hope to preserve their five-meet winning streaks. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ski Club will nwet at H p.m. Thursday in 11 H Nieuwland SeiPncP. ThP dub will takl' $200 dPposits for the spring trip. There ar«> a limited number of spaces left on the trip. Call x3662 or x2<J62 for more information. 
Volunteers are needed to assist youngsters from Logan Center from I 0 to 11 a.m. Friday. Feb. <J, at the McKinley School swimming pool. Call Logan Center at 2S9-4H31 or Dmmis Stark at 239-59H3 for more information. 
Men's volleyball team will host Western Michigan at 7:30 
p.m. tonight in the Joycn ACC pit. Admission is free. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortunl'. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will bn printed and brid's will be editnd for clarity and length. Because of spaen constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 
AUCKLAND. Nnw ZPaland IAI'l -A sPrond drug storm hurst owr tlw WPish ll'am at tlw CommonwPalth (;amPs on Thursday wlwn c;areth lliVPS ol'fieially was namnd as tlw third wPightlift..r to fail a drug lPst. 
CommonwPalth c;amPs FPdnration sPrrPtary David IJixon said that !lives. who won tlm~P silwr nwdals in tlw I00­kilogram class. had tnstPd posi­livP for slanozolol. an anabolir stProid. liP will forfeit his tlm•n nwdals and was PXpPlll'(l. 
Two otlwr compntitors also failnd drug tPsts «>arlinr in tlw c;anws. Both WPrP WPightlil'lPrs: Subrata Kumar Paul of India and Hicky Chaplin of Wall's. 
Chaplin won a gold m«>dal in tlw 75-kg rlass. and Paul. who won two silvPrs and a bronzn in tlw 67.5-kg catPgory, haVI\ like llivns, had tlwir nwdals re­srindPd and havP been exp1.Jied. 
T h p In t f' rna tiona I 
benn infornwd of the cases and 
may takP action. 
"Wp cannot aecnpt this situa­
lion," said Dr. Tamas Ajan, 
gPrwral SP('f!'tary of tlw IWF. 
Wnlsh tmun managnr Myrddin .John said he was "saddened and distmsspd" by tlw nPws. 
"It is n~grnttabln and vnry sad. It is unfortunatn that we havP a fpw individuals who bring dislrPss, not only to lhPmsPIVPS and tlwir family, but also to tlwir lPam." hn said. 
All drug tPsts at thn GamPs arP carriPd out at the Australian c;overnnwnt's ana­lytical Laboratory in Sydnny, and supervised by International Olympic Committe«> testing ex­pPrt, Manfr«>d DonikP. 
Ajan said earlinr reports Britain could bP thrown out of international competition for two ynars following tlw drug of'fpnsps by the two Wnlsh liftPrs w<•m incorrect. 
"Any form of chPating should 

Weightlifting FPderation has bn stampnd on," Moynihan said. 
SUMMER•JOBS 
COUNSELORS 
Boys Camp, W. Mass. • Girls Camp, Maine 
Top Salary, Rm./Bd./Laundry, Travel Allowance Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activites: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, Guitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse, Nature; Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights. Wood. 
Men call or write:  Women call or write:  
Camp Winadu  Camp Vega  
5 Glen Lake  P.O. Box 1771  
Mamaroneck, NY  Duxbury, MA  
10543 (914) 381-5983  02332 (617) 934-6536  

pprformances from Brian Bini in the 200-yard butterfly. Greg 




Hockey 
continued from page 16 
tribute to the Irish attack as soon as he slipped into a jersey with an 'ND' on it. lie made the timely pPnalties." 


all-state team as a senior, and  
scored  a  school-record  130  
points in 70 high school gamns.  
Why  did  he  choose  Notre  
Dame'?  
"I committed last year in the  
middle of my season, and the  
reason  I chose Notre Dame is  Curtis Janicke  
because  they  have  the  best  work to do before he reaches  
combination of academics and  his  potential  as  a  hoekny  
athletics. The hockey program  player. lie also has throe years  
is  a  little  low  right  now,  but  ahead  of him  to  improve  his  
knowing Notre Dame it will g<'t  game.  
better, and you can't beat the  "W()'ve seen a couple of times  
academics here."  when  he  needs to eontrol  his  
While  Janicke  has  enjoyed  temper  a  little  bit."  Schafer  
success this year to the extent  said.  "lie gets  so  excited  out  
of  becoming  a  point-a-game  there. He'll bn the first to admit  
scorer.  he  still  has  a  lot  of  that he's had  a  couple of un­ 

.Janicki' is tiPd with rlassmatP Dan Marvin for sPrond on tlw team in pPn<tlty minut«>s with 
34. Only di'I'P nsPman Dan Sawyer, who !Pads tlw Irish with ;{S minutPs in pPnaltiPs. has spPnt morP time in tlw box than .lanirkP. 
.Janicke also fePis lw rwPds to improvn his passing skills. 
"I havP to work on my tPam concept a littiP bit," lw said. "I have to learn wlwn to pass tlw puck. Sornetinws I givn tlw puck up at the right time, but tlwrn 
an•  otlwr tinws  when  I hold  
onto  the  puck  a  little  bit  too  
long."  

As .Janicke irons out thesP lit­tle kinks in his game, nxpnct tlw Irish to beeonw a b1~ttPr hockny team. And don't be surprised if the goal judge llashns his littiP red light much morn fn~qunntly wlwn Notrn Damn has a power play. 

THURSDAY ~N 


NIGHT~~ 

NIGHTCLUB 
9:30p.m. Thursday-comedian STEVE SEAGREN 
First 100 PEOPLE through the door get free BUTTONS 



IS 8~ 

Ill~~~~N~ ;~~~:~::;;::;;;;,;~~;;;;;::; 

~!:CLUB 

Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 

Questions? Call: 239-7521. 
Thursday, February 1, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Thursday 
46 Most modern 29 Bachelor party 47 "-toworry" 

ACROSS 27Weep 
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch at the Center for Social 1 Pb 33 Embarrass
Concerns, sponsored by Native Americans Group. 5 It has teeth but 49 Trace can't eat 34 "For want of 50 End of the truism " 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Nightmares of Latin American 9 Everyone's 58 Tocsin 36"-dien"
Exporters: Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties," by 
ancestor 59 Formerly,
(Prince

Shane Hunt, Department of Economics, Boston University 13 Florence's river formerly
Charles's motto) 

in room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 14 The maples 60 Nothing for Graf 
37 More of the 15 Kobold truism 61 Dubs
7 p.m. The Keenan Review in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 
16 Wehrmacht goal 40 Popular papal 62 Skid
sponsored by Keenan Hall. 
name

11 Capp's Hyena 63 Toward shelter 41 Approaches
Friday 18 Jibe 64 Leg joint 42 Ancient Greek 
19 Start of a truism 65 Prepared to
physician

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum, 'Racism and Sexism in the 22 African port drive 
43 Snick's partner 

Classroom.' Talk by Kate Halischak, Executive Officer of 66 Average
23 Mimic 
45"You-

Gender Studies on "The Challenge of Gender Studies at 
24 Easy pool shots There"
Notre Dame." Room 124, CSC. Brown Bag or Soup and 

DOWN

Bread $1.00. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
1 Cilium ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 Fourth of HOMES 30ver 4 Kennel 5 Famed soprano: 

MENUS 
1923-77 
21 Nun's garb 34 Between Shebat 49 Offspring6 Thalassic locale and Nisan 

24 Mizzen and jib 50 Row 7 Carte 

35 Musically Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
aBoast Buddy smooth 52 Identical 9 Fishes 
25 Entertainer 51 Verve 
26 Western lake 38 Lasso 

53 Usual fob site 10 Dickens heroine 
27 Trap 39 Drum sound 54 Perry's creator 

Oriental Style Pork Deluxe and Cheese Pizza 11 Iowa State site 
28 Boobs 44 Main course 55 Kind of shirt or

Bamboo Beef Farmer's Omelette 
12 Proper aoDeed 46 Prepared an pony

Imperial Chicken Moroccan Lemon Chicken 
15 Pant 31 Is sore auction 56 Always 
20 Annie, for one 32 Treaty city 48 Resistance units 57 Judge 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

,................................................• 
t "Did He Do the Right Thing?" ••+ Panel Discussion with: + t (r rrf1 -Mr. Kenneth Durgans t ~ [{ n n [J [{ ® ® l]_J @ []]} (Office of Minority Affairs) :
+ ~ -Mr. Percival Everett + : (Professor of English) + 
'-f 0 n j g h f Thursday, Feb. 1 : 
: 8:00 and 10:QQ 8:30pm Center for Social Concerns·. $2.00 per student 
•• Cushing Auditorium 
sponsored by: SUB, Hispanic • American Org ., Democratic

+ Socialists of America, and +
+ Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union sJ"uoENT uNioN BOAR.O Black Cultural Arts. : 






t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

---~--­


Sports
Thursday, February 1, 1990 

Janicke part of youthful corps leading Irish hockey squad 

r--­
1 
I ~ 
Janicke learns to adjust to quicker collegiate hockey 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
The power play has sputtered lately for the Notre Dame hockey team, so coach Hie Schafer dedded to move fresh­man center Curtis Janicke to the point when his team has the man-advantage. While it is too soon to evaluate the move, don't be surprised if the Irish start scoring more when oppo­nents head to the penalty box. 
Irish fans caught a glimpse of Janicke's potential in a 7-4 loss to Army this past Friday night when he wound up and drove a low, hard slapshot past Cadet goalie Brooks Chretien on a power play in the third period. 
"1!11 has the skills necessary (to play the point)," says Schafer, "lie's got a good shot, so when the opportunity pre­sents itself w11'd like him to shoot. If h11 doesn't have the shot we'd like him to get it into tlw playmakNs we have up th11re." 
Janicke, who hails from Brooklyn Park. Mairw, is tied for third on the team in scoring with S goals and 16 assists for 


By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
Bad luck has been stalking the Notre Dame wom11n's bas­ketball team this year, striking at unsuspecting players and killing their season hopes with swift, mighty blows. 
One by one prospective Irish contributors such as Comalita Jlaysbert, Dionne Smith and Annie Schwartz have been vic­timized by this ruthless beast, dampening the outlook of the entire team and confronting the other squad members with an added pressure to excel in thp, wake of these difficulties. 
Yet out of this depressing scene, many Notre Dame play­ers have excelllld, playing ex­tended roles and picking up the slack left by their fallen team­mates. In the process, many of those who once remained out­side scoring limelight have been thrust into the forp,front, sud­denly becoming heroes that are keying Irish victories. 
Sara Liebsrher is one of these standouts. Liebscher, who has earned 

Swim teams prepare to head east 

By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
Ending the dual meet portion of the season, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams take to the road for two chal­lenging meets this weekend against Dukp, University and North 'Carolina State. 
These meets mark the first time the Irish have faced teams from the Atlantic Coast 

The Irish face Duke friday in the Irish face North Carolina what appp,ars to be an evenly State on Saturday. The men's matched meet. Not only are the team of North Carolina is na­swimmers at similar competi­tionally ranked, and both the tive levels, but the two schools men's and women's squads are both known for high aca­outscored Notre Dame in the demic quality along with strong Eastern Intercollegiates. athletic programs, and the "On any given day, one can't swimming programs are simi­predict the outcome of a meet, larly funded. but the advantage would have 
"We match up very well to go to North Carolina," Welsh against Duke," Welsh noted. "If said. "The men's team so far we race well, we have an excel­have been faster in almost every 24 points on the season. Although he spent some time as a defenseman in high school, Janicke is still learning the role of the point-man on the power play. 
"Last weekend was the first time I was back there, and I made a few mistakes which cost us a couple of goals. It is a learning experience, and as the game progressed I gained more confidence, and at the end of the game it showed when we got a couple of power play goals," says Janicke. 

Janicke is just one freshman from a very talented class which is hoping to bring the Notre Dame hockey program back into national prominence. Schafer has high expectations for the future of this class of recruits. 
"Even though they're playing well right now, I'd like to pie­turn them and what they're go­ing to be next year and in the years after that. They're cer­tainly getting a lot of ice time. A lot of other freshm11n around the country are just paying their dues and seeing spot ac­tion. In (my players') case, 


Sara Llebscher 

the title "Steady Sara" this sea­son with her consistent play. has quietly worked to improve her game, waiting for the op­portunity to fully demonstrate her talent and play to her ca­pabilities. 
The 5-8 junior guard anchors the Irish backcourt with team­mate Karen Robinson whilp, av­eraging a reliable 8.6 ppg and 
5.4 rebounds per game. Her chance to sparkle finally ar­rived last Monday. 
That night Liebscher ex­ploded for a team-and career­high 20 points and a team­leading 10 rebounds in pacing Notre Dame to a 79-45 ·romp­ing of MCC fop, Evansville. 
For Liebscher, the offensive outburst did not happen by sur­prise but rp,sulted from a con­certed effort to contribute to a weakened offense by seizing open shots. 
"I was looking to shoot and wanted the ball more," said Liebseher. "Everyone had been 
telling me to take the chance and shoot more. so I finally did. With only eight players, every­one has to do their part." 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw agreed. 
"It came down to Sara being a little more aggressive offen­sively," McGraw commented, "and picking up the slack for Comalita being gone." 
McGraw was referring to six­foot sophomore forward Comilita Haysbert who was av­eraging 13.9 ppg before being sidelined this semester with poor grades. McGraw re­marked that Liebscher had to adjust mentally and assume the 
see HOOPS I page 13 
-

The Observer I Scott McCann 
Freshman center Curtis Janicke has helped the Notre Dame hockey team to a 14-1 0-0 record thus far with 
his aggressive play on both ends of the ice. He is tied for third on the team in scoring with eight goals and 16 
assists and is tied with fellow freshman Dan Marvin for second in penalty points with 34. 
they're in there, making some lege game in the beginning of the season progressed I gained good plays and making some the season. Janickp, credits confidence, but some of the up-mistakes. They're really going some of his more experienced pPrclassmen, especially Tim to help us down the road." teammates with helping him Kuehl, Lance Madson and Mike promises Schafer. become accustomed to the col-Leherr--the three captains-­
While Janicke has been the lege game. have helped me out a lot." most prolific scorer among "The pace of the game is Janicke was expected to eon-those freshmen, he had some much faster in college than in problems adjusting to the col-high school," says Janicke, "As . see HOCKEY 1page 14 
The Observer 1Patrick Kusek 
Junior Sara Liebscher's manifold contributions to the Notre Dame 
women's basketball team has lifted it to a 11-6 record overall and a 
perfect 6-0 record in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Tennis teams ready for tough matches 
Special to The Observer Action will begin at 8 p.m. each morning. 
The Notre Dame women's The men's squad will take tennis team will open its sea­to the road to face Illinois son this weekend by hosting on Saturday, Feb. 3 and then the Eck Doubles Classic. The return to the Eck Pavilion to tournament will take place open their home schedule at the Eck Tennis Pavilion against 25th-ranked West from Friday, Feb. 2 to Virginia at 3 p.m. Sunday, Sunday, Feb. 4. Feb. 4. 

Irish prepare for MCC opponents 
Liebscher's contributions leave NO 6-0 in conference 
Conference under Irish head lent chance of winning." event. and though the women 
The 12-team field offers a The lrrsh stand at 1-1

coach Tim Welsh. The two teams will meet match up well, North Carolina 
slew of talented opponents after falling to second­

"Part of the oi:Uective of our again in the Eastern has the depth advantage. But 
including 11th-ranked ranked Georgia 6-3 and

swimming prog~m iii -to fac& lntercollegiates. held on Feb. we are excited about having the 
Indiana and 19th-ranked beating Southern Methodist

schools that allow us to ex­22-24 for the women's team opportunity to race against 
Kentucky. Hawaii and Big 10 University 6-3 two weeks

pand, both geographically in and March 1-3 for the men. them, and the swimmers are 
teams Illinois and Ohio State ago in the American Airlines 

the areas in which we race, and The challenge of expanding 
will also participate. Invitational.

in quality," said Welsh. the schedule is apparent when see DUKE I page 14 



