
VOL. XXIII NO. 39 THURSDAY , OCTOBER 18, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
William Bennett advocates values, culture in NO lecture 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
A friend of William Bennett, thn national "drug czar," re­cnntly refnrred to him as "the Chris Zorich of drug policy." 
At a lecture Wednesday, Ben­nett did nothing to dispel this image by saying that values and culture "arn more real. more important and have more im­pact on the lives of our chil­dnm" than other issues facing thn nation today. 
BPnnett was at Notre Dame to discuss the problems facing American children, which he said wern "rootnd in behav­iors." lin said that the worst problem facing children today is drugs, which he ealled "a problem of private behavior and morality." 
lin criticized the findings of Code Blun, tlw report of a na­tional commission on America's tiHmagers. "Code Blue," he said, "idnntifics a crisis of the spirit, a sickness in the soul and it mcommends aspirin, Band-Aids and a hall pass to sec the nurse." 
BP.nnett agreed with Code Blue's conclusions that most of thn problems facing American tnmmgnrs am rnlated to behav­ior. llowever. he disagreed with the n~port's recommendations for guarantnPd access to health sc~rvkllS and lwalth instruction for tPimagn students. 
Bnnnett c~allPd the rnport's responsn to these problems "worse than irrelnvant-it is ac­tually part of the problem to 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

Drug czar William Ben~ett discussed the problems facing American children at his lecture on campus Wednesday. Bennett po1nted out that most of the problems were "rooted in behaviors." 
begin with." cost. It will be to our children." 
Instead, Bennett summed up Bennett criticized what he his solution to the problems called "the fear of renewed Pu­facing America's youth by say­ritanism" which he felt would ing that America must "talk result from his recommenda­openly and candidly about the tions. "Cotton Mather," he said, moral good as an essential part "has been dead for 250 years, of our life together." and this country is hardly at 
"If we ridicule and caricature risk of a renewed interest in his morality as the hang-up of thinking." uptight, obsessive prudes," In his lecture, Bennett said Bennett said, "there will be a that the government should al­ways "seek to sustain and fix the family first." He said that a parent's love is critical to the upbringing of a child. "We know young people can grow up by themselves, but they can't be raised by themselves." 
Bennett defended this by say­ing that family. should be viewed as "a trust held by par­ents on behalf of their children. A family's first object of love and attention must be its chil­dren." 
In addition to the family, Bennett also emphasized the role of.America's schools "to help instill sound and full char­acter in our children." 
He said that the problem with the current educational system is that "we are still waffling on the need to teach the tougher­minded virtues, like self-disci­pline and self-control, individ­ual and civic responsibility, perseverance, and hard work. To neglect these is a mistake." 
However, Bennett warned that the government cannot provide all the solutions to these problems. 
"Great as it might be," he said, "government has never raised a child. And it never will." 
Bennett said that society must be the primary agent for moral education. 
"The state does not, cannot, and even should not always piek up where families and in­dividuals leave ofT," he said. 
On the other hand, Bennett said, "a decent society will not nourish or decay because of what goes on in Congressional committees, the courts, state houses or even the White House. Because regeneration comes from within." 
Students attend conference Senate continues budget debate 

on the environment at Ill. 
By CAROL DOMINGUEZ 
News Writer 
Forty Notrcl Dame and Saint Mary's students recently at­tended the nation's largest stud IHl t Pnviro nmen tal confenHJce held on the earnpus of the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. 
More than 7,000 college and university students from over 1,000 campuses attended the CATALYST conference held Oct 5-7. The student nnvironmental leaders met to plan an nnvironmental agrnda for tlw I !J90s. 
Most of tlw NI> students partir.ipating in the eonferenee wnm members of thn local chapter of the 
S.E.A.C. (Students for En vi ron nw ntal Action Coalition l. Amy Jenista, prnsid1mt of the club, said that tlw group rnturned with defi­nihl plans to address environ­mental issues at Notre Dame. 
Speakers included Hobert Bedford, Halph Nader and .Jesse .Jaekson. Although their spnechns were laced with statistics concerning the nnvironmnnt, Jenista said that they elicited a strong emotional response from the students. 
Nader spoke of student effi­caey in the area of corporate responsibility. Jenista said that he focused on corporate accountability and stressed that students should play a major role in enforcing eorporate "conscience" in the area of environment. 
After a march through Champaign, student delegates from foreign countries spoke of environmental issues facing their own countries. Jenista said that she was particularly struck by a Chinese student who had graduated from ND. lie said that he had contacted an underground revolutionary from his homeland who asked him to remember to campaign for environmental rights as well as human rights. 
.Jenista said the remainder of the conference centered around workshops that stressed local and campus activism. The students attended different sessions in order to pool their in­formation. SEAC is now "overflowing with ideas," Jenista said. 
The chapter hopes to focus on the issues of energy conservation, food choice and corporate divestment at the University. "We plan to become more active and implement more projects on campus," Jenista said. 
"The new generation of students will point the way to heightened environmental activism and help mobilize thousands of people around the environmental issues,"she said. 

WASHINGTON (AP} -Senate leaders Wednesday night scrambled for support for a $250 billion deficit-reduction plan that would double gasoline taxes, cut Medicare benefits and mildly boost income taxes on the wealthy. 
The measure includes a broader-based tax increase than the soak-the-rich House version that President Bush has said he will veto. 
Democratic and Republican leaders spent much of the day trying to line up enough votes to defeat what they called a killer amendment that would strip the gasoline tax boost from the measure. The amend­ment by Sen. Steve Symms, R­ldaho, would cost nearly $43 billion in revenues over five years. 
"We're either going to come out of this exercise with a $500 billion deficit-reduction pack­age, or with nothing," warned Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine. 
As debate began, Democratic Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn., said, "We tell the American people 
see BUDGET I page 4 



Outside reading 
A group of Saint Mary's juniors work on their Developmental Reading Class for Education Thursday. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



ND needs better concerts than New Kids 
It's just damn de­pressing around here lately. Just last week we lost at home to a bunch of Ivy Leaguers whom a high-school team could beat. Then during the week we fell out of U.S. News Mike Owen and World Report's Top 25 National Uni-News Copy Editor versities. 

You might ask, "Mike, what can possibly shock us now?" Well, if you think you've cried your last golden tear for a while, just wait: THE NEW KIDS ARE COMING! 
Yes, that's right. In just a few short weeks our friends from SUB will be bringing us Jordan, Danny, Johnny, Donnie, and Joey. 
Go ahead. Let it out. Have a primordial yell or an earth shattering scream. Our campus is being invaded by the Titans of Top-Forty, the Princes of Pre-Pubescence, the Commandants of Cosmetics: the NEW KIDS. 
What is this University coming to? Our "army" lost the big battle, we were academ­ically ridiculed and now, instead of locusts we get THE NEW KIDS! 
More importantly, the Notre Dame con­cert scene has been definitely lacking in the last couple of years. Recent examples in­clude Barry Manilow, Def Leppard, Richard Marx, and now, ZZ Top. 
Last year seemed to be an oasis in this fog 
of eternal bad taste. R.E.M played a decent 
(yet overrated) show, as did Squeeze. So, 
we were a little behind in the times for the 
ascent of these bands, but remnants of 
something decent i§ better than nothing. 
Maybe it's just me, but don't names like 
Def Leppard or the "new" Van Halen remind 
you of junior high? Those bands were great 
back then, but now we are in college. Hope­
fully we have gained something during our 
collegiate transition. 
The Student Union Board should take 
some initiative and book an alternative 
band instead of the typical mainstream 
bands they have booked in the past. These 
bands might not appeal to everyone in the 
South Bend community, but they would have 
a large following among the students here. 
If the acts aren't going to sell out with 
just Domers, then why don't they book them 
in a place like Theodore's. 
Remember De La Soul? They were an al­
ternative success minus a few problems. 
Not only were the students satisfied, hut 
many of them got their first glimpse inside 
that underground mecca called Theo's. 
The prospective concertgoer at Notre 
Dame appears to have three choices: (a) 
demand we have Dread Zeppelin or another 
alternative band booked by Spring, (b) put 
on your chest size button of your favorite 
New Kid and take a St. Joe's 9th grader to 
the concert, or (c) NO's favorite method of 
avoiding an issue-crank up Billy Joel's 
Greatest Hits Volumes I &II and pound 
thirty Old Milwaukees. It's your choice. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 


-Ih-e-0-bse..~~er-.
------.&.-=Y~ ­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
Systems Sports Mark SloanNews 
Frank Pastor Jon Wm. StewartPete Yob 
Scoreboard:
Frank Rivera 
Dave McMahon Business Christine Walsh
Accent 
Production Alicia Reale
Shonda Wilson 
Kelly Lynch Maureen GallagerJennifer Guerin 
Cheryl Moser 
Ad Design Kerry Clair 
Viewpoint Circulation Maria Blohm 
David Certo Chris Hanely
Kathy Welsh Lu MedeirosTony Paganelli 
Allison lima
Amy Eckert Cara Eckman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Thursday, October 18, 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, October 18. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
70 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © m1' ~ [}]] CJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctated Press GraphtcsNet 
Yesterday's high: 6 7 Yesterday's low: 61 Nation's high: 96 (Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 7 (West Yellowstone, Mont.) 
Forecast: Cloudy, windy and much colder Thursday with a 70 percent chance of show­ers. Temperatures falling into the middle 40s by afternoon. Mostly cloudy and colder Thursday night with a 50 percent chance of rain. Lows from the upper 30s to around 40. Becoming mostly sunny and very :ool Friday with highs 
3.round 50. 

OF INTEREST 
George Long and Sean Hackett will be at The Knights of the Immaculata will have a the Fieldhouse Mall tomorrow from 3:30 until 5 p.m. They meeting tonight at 7:15pm in the Library Lounge. Father will be answering questions about themselves, life at James McCurry, the national director of the Knights of Notre Dame, and various mysteries of the universe. the Immaculata, will be the guest speaker. 
A required driver seminar for anyone plan­ning to request use of a Center for Social Concerns van will be held at 4:30pm, Thursday, October 18, in the Cen­Friends of Bill Hickey, who was a Food Ser­ter's Multi-Purpose Room. This is a mandatory class for vice Director at NO, are invited to join Bill's widow, Ann anyone who plans on driving a Center van and has not Hickey on October 28 for Mass at 9 a.m. in the Log Chapel previously taken the class. on Notre Dame's campus. 
The German Club is having a dinner discussion tonight auf Doetsch. We will meet at 6:15pm outside the For seniors applying to Holy Cross Associates in north entrance of North Dining Hall and will be in the Chili, the deadline is November 9. Pick up information and blue room. Bis dann! an application at the Center for Social Concerns before 
break. 

College Democrats will be having a discussion and idea session tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. The guest speaker with be Joe Kernan, Mayor Stand Up Comedians are needed for a cam­of South Bend. pus show in near future. Call Adam 283-3374 by Friday if 
you are interested. All students are invited to a lecture that might help answer that difficult question -what are you 
The Advisdry Council to the School of Busi­planning to do when you graduate? A NO degree might ness will sponsor a panel discussion entitled "Women inget your foot in the door, but where do you go from Business-Issues in a Changing Corporate Culture." Friday,there? Find out at 7 p.m. on Thursday at the Hesburgh October 19, at 10 a.m. in Auditorium of the Center for
Library. It is presented by SARG as part of the LAND Continuing Education. 
series. 
WORLD 

Radical students armed with steel pipes, fire­Benazir Bhutto, ousted prime bombs and clubs attacked the U.S. Embassy in downtown minister of Pakistan, was accused in Seoul early Thursday, but were quickly arrested by riot. two additional cases of corruption police, witnesses said. There was no apparent damage to filed Wednesday by the succeeding the embassy compound and there were no injuries re­caretaker government, one week be­ported, police said. Scorch marks from a half-dozen fire­fore national parliamentary elections. bombs burned the sidewalk about 10 yards from the Some legal experts expressed doubt heavily guarded entrance to the embassy's visa section. that any of the six cases against her, 


There were about 50 people, mostly Koreans, waiting her husband and major members of outside for the offices to open when the students at­her fo~mer government will be completed before the Oct. tacked. Witnesses said 11 students were involved in the 24 votmg. Special one-judge tribunals would hear the attack. "They tried to throw the firebombs over the walls cases. A hearing was set for Oct. 20 by Justice Moham­and they waved big sticks," one man said. mad Amir Malik to determine whether the 37-year-old
Bhutto should stand trial. 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
MARKET UPDATE 

On October 18:

Closings for October 17, 1990 

e In 1685: King Louis XIV of France revoked the Edict of Nantes, which had established the legal tolera­
The 1990 "Dome" has received an All­
Volume in shares 

tion of France's Protestant population,
American Award from the National Scholastic 
161.26 Million 

the Huguenots.
Press Association (NSPA) and the Associated Col~ 
eln 1767: The boundary between
legiate Press (ACP). The All-American Award is 
Maryland and Pennsylvania, the Mason­
the highest ranking awarded for yearbook pub­
Dixon line, was agreed upon. 
lishing by these organizations. The "Dome" re­
NYSE Index 

eln 1873: Representatives of
ceived marks pf distinction for its coverage, con­
163.59 {} .05 

Columbia, Princeton, Rutgers and Yale
cept, display, photography and graphics. The 
S&P Composite 

Universities drew up the first rules for in­
panel of judges included qualified professional 
tercollegiate football.

298.76 {} .16 

journalists and advisers to top-rated publica­
Dow Jones Industrials 

eln 1962: Dr. James D. Watson of
tions. The NSPA and ACP are national organiza­
the United States, and Dr. Francis Crick 
2,387.87 {f 6.68

tions founded to serve scholastic publications 
and Dr. Maurice Wilkins of Britain, were 
such as yearbooks. Precious Metals 
named winners of the Nobel Prize for Medicine and Physiology for their work
Gold {f $4.70 to $366.70 I oz. 

in determining the double-helix molecu­Silver\r 5.6¢ to $4.19 I oz. 
lar structure of DNA. Source: AP 


---·
---~--­



The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Oktober run 
Students, faculty and staff prepare for a 3-mile run around Saint Mary's campus as part of Oktoberfest. 

Professor speaks on the effects of language in international relations 
By SCOTT KEEGEL 
News Writer 
l.an~uagP plays a major role in domestie and international rPlations, according to Carol Cohn of Harvard University, 
Cohn said language can, "prevent good thinking" or even "stop thinking altogether." An Pxample she provided was the usn of the word "deterrent" to justify nuclear arms. 
Application of such vocabu­lary can help to end some unePrlainties about nuclear weapons by placing a definitive answer in the middle of all the "what ifs" and moral issues, aeeording to Cohn. 
She said labeling someone such as Saddam Hussein as "another Hitlt~r" brings about thoughts of the terrors of World War II and thP atrocities of the holoeaust. 
"This is one way that a gov­ernmPnt such as (that oO the 

Sign up now! 



Snow Volleyball 
Six person teams 

November 2-10 
3 men/ 3 women 
United States can (ease objec­tions to) mobilization," she said. 
Cohn spoke of the role of Third World countries and how they are perceived by security and defense analysts. While working within the defense analysis circles she said she was "flo.ored" by how Third World countries were spoken about as factors in U.S.-Soviet relations rather than as sepa­rate entities. 
In the meantime, Third World countries are viewed as strictly independent threats by many others, she said. 
"After all, they (Third World countries) are unpredictable since they have a complete lack of impulse control and are very apt to have maniacal leaders," she said. 
According to Cohn, Vice President Dan Quayle pointed out that now that the Cold War has ended we need the Strategic Defens·e Initiative 

-BUY YOUR NEXT INTERVIEW SUIT FROM ATAILOR ·WE SPECIALIZE IN HARD TO FIT BUILDS ·LARGE SELECTION OF QUALITY SUITS 
INCLUDING CHRISTIAN DIOR AND CRICKETEER ·I00% WOOL SUITS FROM $236 
Since 
1980 

EfilJ:!:II:) 


Town & Country Shopping Center 2448 Miracle Ln., Mishawaka, ln. 
system to protect the United States from the Saddam llusseins and the Khomeinis who may "just decide to lob a nuclear warhead into the United States." 
Cohn also discussed world se­curity in the post-Cold War era. She told the audience of an ar­ticle in Atlantic magazine which said that "the mathematical likelihood of conflict in Europe is more likely" without the bal­ance of power present during the Cold War. 
The United States, among others will have to take a close look at its policy dealings with some countries (namely Ger­many, Poland, and Czechoslo­vakia) in the future, she said. 
According to Cohn, Henry Kissinger, in reference to a question about the end of the Cold War, said "it remains to be seen if we [the United States will have permanent allies o permanent interests." 
Thanks toyou... it works ... 
for 
ALL OFUS 
Unitedway
• 
page 3 




Prof. speaks on economic impact of disarmament 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
The economic impact of dis­armament may be negative and costly in the short term, but it will definitely include positive benefits for the consumer in the long run, according to Jurgen Brauer, visiting associate pro­fessor of business administra­tion and economics at Saint Mary's. 
Brauer, a visiting faculty fel­low at Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies, helped to organize "Economic Issues of Disarmament," a con­ference for Economists Against the Arms Race, to be hosted by the Institute Nov. 30 to Dec. 1. 
The negative economic im­pacts of disarmament include the lay-offs that will occur when the military sector is con­verted to civilian production and the costs of cleaning up ar­eas that were formerly devoted to military production, accord­ing to Brauer. 
"(For) those workers that presently produce war materi­als, it might mean they lose their jobs," said Brauer. "What do they do? Will South Bend lose a thousand jobs? And, that would mean less money for the government. Disarmament may be costly in the short run." 
However, disarmament will also have positive economic ef­fects, as those workers who formerly produced for the mili­tary begin producing consumer goods that civilians want, and as there are greater opportuni­ties for trade with the Soviet Union, he said. 
"It is possible that workers can be more productive in pro­ducing civilian goods than in armament production," said Brauer. "Economists have been working along these lines for at least two hundred years. Economists have in general 
Interview program will help charitable groups 
By Frank Gaul modeled after Harvard Law News Writer School's Students Against Homelessness program. Re­
In an effort to encourage cently, students in the Stanford corporations to use their money University M.B.A. program ini­for charity rather than on tiated a similar effort. extravagant lodgings for The money raised through prospective employees, senior the program will be used to Kevin Cavanaugh and the Office support educational of Campus Ministry have opportunity in the South Bend started the Graduates Inter­area through the Center for viewing For Tomorrow (GIFT) Basic Learning Skills. program. Cavanaugh said GIFT's long 
The aim of GIFT is to get term goal is to set up a students seeking employment to scholarship fund at ND for stay with family, friends or in students with financial need. less expensive hotels when in­terviewing for jobs, said Ca­Cavanaugh is in the process vanaugh. In the future, GIFT of producing a brochure which might use an agency to facili­will be distributed to seniors tate with student travel plans to later next month. Anyone inter­their interviews. ested in this program may con­
Notre Dame's program was tact him at 283-4307. 
_WEAR IT ., AMERICAN
I
WCANCER
WITH CLASS! 
'SOCIETY® 

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
American Psychoanalytic Association accredited training; University of Chicago medical faculty; treating people with personal, relationship, or career problems. Increased self-knowledge reveals new opportunities. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 243-5656. 
agreed that it would be prefer­
able not to produce for war." 
"In producing for war society loses something," he said. "It loses the labor of those who produce missiles; labor that could have gone into producing tables and chairs." 
The papers and discussions presented at this conference will reaeh and affect the gen­eral public in a variety of ways, according to Brauer. 
"We have benn in negotiation with publishers to produce a scholarly conference volume. There is also the possibility of video-taping," he said. "Students in my classes down the road might have to read the papers. The discussions may also influence the testimony that conference participants might be called on to give in Congress or at conferences." 
The three day conference will be divided into eight sessions focusing on different economic concerns, including the conver­sion of the military sector to civilian uses, the effects or dis­armament on international trade, the impact of disarma­ment on Third World develop­ment and the environmental impact of disarmament. 
There will also be one session open to the public, which Brauer encourages everyone to attend. 
While this is the first such conference to be sponsored by Economists Against the Arms Race, a group formed in December 1988, Brauer said he likes the notion that sueh a conference might become an annual or biannual oecurrenee. 
"I would hope that this would be a continual effort," he said, "but I am very happy to be hav­ing a conference on the eco­nomic issues of disarmament as opposed to the economic issues of armament." 

~---------~---­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1990 


Banquet celebrates parents and teachers 

You may not know our name, but we've been a cornerstone of America for 125 years. 
We wouldn't be a bit surprised if you didn't recognize our company name-Cargill. But we've been in business since 1865, helping America's farmers feed the world. 
We're a company built on talented people. Our particular skills include market­ing; handling and processing bulk commodities; risk management; strategic cap­ital investment; and taking an innovative approach to generating cost efficiencies. 
We apply those skills to a broad range of businesses. Today, Cargill handles com­modities as diverse as scrap metal and molasses, cocoa and fertilizer, cotton and ocean freight, and wheat and orange juice. Our operations vary from flour mills to futures trading, from meat-packing plants to mining salt, and from steel mills to selling seed. Cargill, its subsidiaries and affiliates, employ more than 55,000 people worldwide. 
If you have a good academic background, above-average communication skills and a desire for advancement, we'd like to talk to you. Career opportunities exist for talented, ambitious people from diverse educational backgrounds. 
Recruitment date is as follows: 
October 31 , 1990 Accounting 


-------------------------·
I The Castle & Co. Ii Men's Hairstyling ! 
I YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, I ­: WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? I 1 Haircut, ~poo, Blow Dry & Condition : 
I Reg. $15.00 1 I Now $8.50 with 1 : coupon : 
I MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1 I 272-0312 277-1691 1 I 54533 Terrace Lane II I Across from Martin's I 
·0·----------------------­
DEADLINE FOR REGISTRATION FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19th 
Registration/Information Available @ -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry 
·Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library -Office of Justice Education ·128/159 Madaleva Hall 
-Campus Ministry · 150 Regina Hall -Dorm Representatives 
What is the Urban Plunge? 
Answer: 

-program available to all NO /SMC students -48 hour immersion into inner-city life -during Christmas Break (2nd week in January) 
at one of over 40 different cities -opportunity to experience conditions of poverty, 
injustice, and apathy existing in our cities -chance to survey the sphere of available programs to see which interests you most! -participants receive 1 hour academic credit 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19 
Budget 
continued from page 1 
that there will be some sacrifice 
in this package. But we tell 
them at the same time that it 
will be fair." 
And the White House said the 

Senate version could form the 
basis for ending the govern­
ment's long budget stalemate. 
"The White House is ready to 

receive the bipartisan package 
similar to the Senate package," 
said Bush's chief of staff, John 
Sununu. "Get it to the presi­
dent's desk and he'll sign it." 
The administration also said 

Bush might not shut down the 
government Saturday if law­
makers show good faith 
progress toward a deficit-re­
duction package. Sununu said 
Bush might sign legislation 
keeping the government 
operating if it included budget­
cutting provisions that "show 
Congress meant business about 
it." 
Until now, the president has tried to keep the pressure on by threatening to shut the gov­ernment down unless Congress sends him a full budget he can accept. Without emergency leg­islation, federal authority to spend money expires at 12:01 
a.m. Saturday. 
Acting one day after the Democrats pushed a bill much tougher on the rich through the House, Senate leaders chose to face Election Day just three weeks off with a proposal bearing all the marks of a polit­ical compromise. 
There would be limits on de­ductions for people with in­comes exceeding $100,000, but no boost in tax rates for the rich as the House approved. The 9-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax would be doubled, but the earned-income tax credit for the poor would increase, too. 
The package would shave about $250 billion from the federal deficit over the next five years by raising $142 billion in new taxes and paring Medicare, farm support and other benefit programs. Savings in other bills -mainly defense cuts ____,. would bring total deficit-reduction to about $500 billion, including 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
$40 billion in the budget year that started Oct. 1. 
Bush had threatened to veto the House bill because of its in­crease in the upper bracket in­come tax rate. Though adminis­tration officials objected to some provisions in the Senate version, Sununu said in an in­terview on NBC-TV the presi­dent liked the compromise. 
Despite the pi an's powerful supporters, the Senate's Demo­cratic and Republican leaders spent the day defending their plan from lawmakers unhappy for regional or philosophical reasons. 
Western senators complained that the higher gasoline tax would be a severe blow to states such as theirs, where people routinely drive long dis­tances. Others insisted that the bill's overall tax package was unnecessary, that spending should have been cut more deeply instead. 
"Grab your wallets and run for cover because Congress is getting up a head of steam to raise your taxes," said Symms. 
Special to The Observer Independent Colleges and Universities of Indiana. 
Sophomore William Schenher First generation students and John Szot, his former from 30 Indiana private col­teacher at Andrean High School leges and universities and the in Merrillville, Ind., will be secondary school teachers who among the students and teach­most encouraged them to pur­ers gathering at the Embassy sue a college degree will be Suites Hotel in Indianapolis for honored in the event. the "Realizing the Dream" ban­quet Saturday. In addition to students and 
teachers, parents and represen­
The banquet celebrates the tatives of the participating col­roles played by teachers and leges and universities will be parents in encouraging higher present at the banquet, where a educational aspirations among $500 contribution will be made high school students and cul­to the general scholarship fund minates a three-year project of each participating college in made possible by a grant from the names of the students being the Lilly Endowment to the honored. 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Universities distribute whistles to deter crime and enhance the safety of students 


Mark Rose of the Florida Atlantic University's Athletic Department pre­sented "Two Salespersons and Ecologies of Technological Kn~wledge, 1920-1940," Wednesday, as part of a campus lecture senes. The lecture stemmed from his book. Cities of Liqht and Heat. 
Rose discusses sales pitches and technology 
gas and electrical heating. 

By KERRY SCANLON 
"Crystallizing the latent fea-

News Writer 
tures in the culture," said 

Sales pitches tend to be gen-Rose, is what advertising dered and centered upon the promoters focus upon to win improvement of living that the consumers' perceptions of modnrn tnchnology could bring adjusting lifestyles to more 
to an individual, according to modern fuels and technology. Mark Hose of the Florida According to Rose, the late Atlantic University's Athletic Hoy Monroe, a sales 
f>ppartment. executive, went unrecognized 
Husn presented "Two but was responsible for Salnspersons and Ecologies of advertising techniques that Tnchnological Knowledge, were able to "perceive the I<J20-l<J40," Wndnesday as part social phenomenon of the of tlw VincPnt DeSantis lecture day" and greatly influence the serif's. public's perceptions of 
lie focusnd partieular atten-modern technology. 

tion upon tlw evolution of hous1~hold technology and the Hose's lecture title and main progrnssion this country has focus of discussion stemmed taken from using coal to the from the sixth chapter of his mort~ rnodnrn fuels of natural book, Cities of Light and Heat. 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
With the recent increase in crime on campuses across the country, several universities have taken steps to ensure the safety of their students. 
The University of South Carolina-Columbia, has special festivities throughout October, National Crime Prevention Month. 
The university, student gov­ernment and safety force joined resources at an outdoor fair where the main attraction was the distribution of safety whis­tles, according to Lieutenant Weaver Grayson, training offi­cer of USC Security. 
This is the fourth year that 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, OCT. 15 

12:41 a.m. A Farley Hall resident reported receiving a suspicious phone call from a person who claimed to have 
struck her vehicle in the 02 parking lot. No such damage was actually sustained. 
3:40 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported the theft of her bicycle from the 
Lewis Hall bike rack. 
TUESDAY, OCT. 16 
9:10a.m. A University employee reported the theft of cash from an of-lice cabinet on the second floor of 
Nieuwland Science Hall. 
8:32 p.m. A Farley Hall resident reported the theft of her tan jacket from 
a class room on the second floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 17 
10:25 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of his decal from his automobile while parked in the B2 parking lot near the Aerospace Engi­
nearing Laboratory. 
these tri-tone whistles have been distributed. Students at­tach the whistles to their key chains and use them to attract attention if a problem would ever occur. 
"Even if the students don't need the whistles because of a problem, they are a good re­minder to walk in pairs and to take other safety precautions," Grayson said. 
Because of the increased awareness of campus safety, emergency responsl;_l call boxes have been installed around the USC campus, he said. 
On campus, Notre Dame Se­curity and Student Government have been working together in order to increase crime preven­tion. 
According to Rob Pasin, stu­dent body President, an emer­gency response telephone sys­tem will be installed on campus by spring break. Last year, Student Government organized the SafeWalk student escort service, Pasin said. 
"We've never discussed han­dling whistles, but if security feels it would make a difference and if it would not be cost pro­hibitive, we'd like to do any­thing we can to help," Pasin said. 
"Whistles are not a bad idea as long as they are taken seri­ously," said Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of Notre Dame Security. "However, they don't take the place of common sense." 
Students, faculty see parallels in film and life 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
to go on than image. One stu­
News Writer 
dent said appearances are a consideration but "at an SYR, 
Students and faculty drew once the package Is opened, It's parallels between the film often discarded." "Pretty Woman" and college life in a Popular Culture Group dis­cussion Wednesday. In the movie, Vivian is at­
Audience members recognized tractive enough, but students said that if she hadn't been a
the material values of the movie 
captivating person, Edward
at and identified the similar (Richard Gere) and Barnievalues at Saint Mary's and (Vivian's front desk friend)
Notre Dame. 
The "Dogbook" is a popular wouldn't have liked her. Byersf f · 1 said the superficiality was "to
re erence or meetmg peop e appear the part and conform toand students admitted that it the class she was invited toinvites judgments based on a join."
picture. · 
"It doesn't matter much what he (your date) says, you're looking at the way he's Chuck Pressler, professor wrapped," was the sentiment of of sociology, said the movie Peggy Byers, a professor of stressed the popular belief that communication/dance/theater, "sight is the most important about SYRs. sense." The audience believed 
Participants reponded to the movie probably wouldn't Byers' statement with varied have worked if Kit (Vivian's opinions. A general idea was hooker-roommate) had played that in the beginning of a rela-the leading lady because she 
r-------------------------------~::::::::::::::::::::::::__ ti~o,n.sh•i•p•t•h~e•r•e•i•s•n•o•t•h•in.g._m•o•r•e..•d•i•d•n•'t·"•l•o•o•k•r•ig•h•t•."........~ 
A Unique Consulting Firm 
HewittAssociates 
is visiting the University ofNotre Dame 
We will conduct ON-CAMPUS inten.Jiews October and February. See yourPlacement Officefor sign-up details. 
Hewitt Associates is an international firm ofconsultants and actuaries specializing In the design. financing, communication, and administration of employee benefit and compensation pro~rams. We are Included in the publications The 100 Best Comranles to Work for in America and The Best Comranies 
forWomen. -­
We are interested In students with the foilowlng majors: 
Accounting Computer Applications Economics Finance Math Math 
with Computer concentration 
Management 
with MIS concentration 
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and Intelligent; people who work well together. Our challenge is to identll)r and develop those people wbo can respond to the opportunities of today and tomorrow. 
~ 

Hewitt Associates 
• 
Lincolnshire, IL • Santa Ana, CA • Walnut Creek. CA 

• Rowayton, CT • Boston, MA • Bedminister. NJ 

• 
Atlanta. GA • Las Colinas. TX • The Woodlands. TX 


An equal opportuntty employer m!f 
The name of the event is 
ART EXPO 190 
and we (SUB) want to invite all campus and off-campus artistically inclined people (including faculty) to participate by submitting 2-D or 3-D original works. Sign-ups are Nov. 5th, 6th in SUB office from 3-5, or call239-7757. 
Alex's-An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been serving the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can't take the 


streetcar anymore, but today's quick trip downtown still rewards you with caring, friendly serv1ce (often while you wait) and old time craftsmanship. 
Keep your feet in shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital. 
-~­
SHOE·HOSPITAL 
115 West Washington Downtown South Bend 
Daily 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Telephone 288-2188 

~-­


page 6 
ND to sponsor meeting of Catholic Physicians 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame will host the 1990 meeting of the National Federation of Catholic Physi­cians' Guilds. 
The meeting, "Curing and Caring in Contemporary Soci­ety, Is There a Catholic Per­spective?" will take place Oct. 25-28. 
Among the meeting's public events, all of which will take place in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, will be a session Friday beginning, where Charles Dougherty, professor of phi­losophy and director of the Center for Ethics and Health Policy at Creighton University, will present "The Crisis in Health Care Delivery and Its Ethical Dilemmas." 
Dr. William Fitzsimmons, a family physician from Oak Park. Ill., will speak on "The Ethical Dilemmas for the Physi­cian in Practice." 
John Robinson, director of the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government at Notre Dame, will speak on "A Chris­tian Agenda for Catholic Physi­cians." 
Rev. Joseph Gremillion, pro­fessor emeritus, will speak on "A Historical Perspective on Catholic Social Teachings." 
Drew Christiansen, associate professor of theology, will speak on "Catholic Social Teachings and Contemporary Health Care." 
Dougherty will speak on "Proposals for Change in Health Care Delivery. 
There will be a panel discus­sion on "Health Care Delivery: Ethics and Reality." Panelists will be Christiansen, Dougherty and David Betson, associate professor of economics. 
Kevin McDonnell, associate professor of philosophy at Saint Mary's, will speak on "An Overview and Critique of Em­bryo Research." 
There will also be a panel dis­cussion on "Embryo Research." Panelists will be McDonnell, Eugene Diamond, professor of pediatrics at Loyola University's Stritch School of Medicine and Sidney Callahan, associate professor of psychology at Mercy College. 
On Saturday , Edmund Pelle­grino, director of the Center for the Advanced Study of Ethics at Georgetown University, will speak on "The Christian Virtues and the Christian Physician." Callahan will speak on "Conscience and Decision Mak­ing." 
W. David Solomon, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, will speak on "Virtue and the Medical Profession." 
Solomon, Callahan and Pelle­grino will be panelists in a dis­cussion of "Issues of Virtue in the Profession." 
Victoria Thorn, executive di­rector of the National Office of Post Abortion Reconciliation and Counseling, will speak on "Project Rachel and the Post Abortion Ministry." 
Josefina Magno, president for the International Hospice Insti­tute and director of hospice services for the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, will speak on "The Role of the Physician When There is No Hope for a Cure." 
Herb Sorensen, physician at Likuni Hospital in Malawi, East Africa, will speak on "A Call From Likuni: Our Answer and Our Journey." 
Antonio Brenner, minister at LaMesa Prison in Tijuana, Mex­ico, will give a presentation ti­tled "They All Are Our Chil­dren." 
The meeting will conclude Sunday (Oct. 28) with a morn­ing of recollection and a Mass in Alumni Hall Chapel. Rev. Michael Himes, associate pro­fessor of theology, will preside. 
The National Federation of Catholic Physicians' Guilds was established in 1932 to uphold the principles of Catholic faith and morality as related to the science and practice of medicine, to uphold Catholic hospitals in the application of Catholic moral principles, to communicate Catholic medical ethics to the medial profession and the wider community and to enable Catholic physicians to deepen their mutual support and understanding. 

The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1990 
Guarded Temple Mount 
A handicapped Moslem worshipper stares at Israeli border policemen as ~e leaves the entrance of the Dome of the Rock Mosque on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem aft?r t_he Fnd_ay p~ayers. Many ~?slems were denied entry due to security measures following last Mondays nets wh1ch k11led 19 Palest1mans. 
Soviet 
continued from page 7 
ceived Russian stackable dolls which it markets as souvenirs. McDonald's has not received revenues but reinvests in the Soviet Union so it will be able to open more chains. 
Another impediment to forming a Western economy is the lack of trade laws. Copyc right laws do not exist in the Soviet Union. Marzke brought up the example of a computer software designer who made little profit off of his programs since there was no law against pirated copies. There has been no need for copyright laws since the government has had control of all production. 
Marzke suggested that there was a need for a change in atti­tude by the people. 
Association president, Chet Kaminski, asked if there was hope with the younger genera­tion. In speaking with younger Soviet citizens, Marzke found them to be more receptive to change. "Children there are learning English and think Western," he said. 
The present working class has no incentive to work since they do not feel rewarded for their effort. There is no mone­tary incentive because their currency is relatively worthless. Most have plenty of money but nothing to spend it on. In addi­tion there is no sense of job in­security which prompts people to work harder. Unemploy­ment does not exist in the So­viet Union, workers are simply moved to another area if their performance is poor. 
The other major difficulty that must be solved is one of unity. "Gorbachev was riding a horse that has now become a bucking bronco which is out of control," said Marzke. Ethnic unrest can only be solved through a sense of leadership and with confidence in both the country's economy and its lead­ership. Once some of the inner strife has been put to rest eco­nomic changes can be made more smoothly. 
Marzke remarked that he did not think that his visit had sig­nificant impact on Soviet com­puter security procedures. The EDP auditor for CMS Manal!e­
ment Systems applied for the program because of his interest in the changes in the Soviet Union and a "naive notion that I could help." Although Marzke thinks that there are many hurdles left to overcome, rapid changes in the Soviet Union make a Western style economic system a growing possibility. 
The Michiana Chapter of the National Association of Ac­countants meets monthly. Stu­dents are eligible to join the Chapter. 
DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 

ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASHINGTON HALL THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE· IT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
(Scenes from 20th Century Irish Theatre) Devised by Sam Dale 
8:00pm Tickets: $10, $8 St>nit't Citizens, $6 Students Tickets are available at the do(>r ur Ill advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Offtce MasterCard/Visa orders call 239-Hl2H 
All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
---~--­Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 

Business
Thursday, October 18, 1990 page 7 

Business ethics: An oxymoron? 
By Father Oliver Williams 
In reeent weeks we have been overwhelmed by reports in 
the media of ethical failures in business. Whether it be the 
shady deals of financial genius Michael Milken or the irre­
sponsibility of Denver's Silverado Banking, Savings and 
Loan, the American people are increasingly angry that the 
ethical business executive seems to be a dying breed. What 
can we do to assure ourselves of a better ethical climate in 
business today? More specifically, how can I prepare myself 
so that I am not the Michael Milken of tomorrow? 
In my view, a major benefactor for ethics teaching and re­
search at Harvard Business School, John Shad, stated the 
challenge well. Shad, former ambassador to the Nether­
lands, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and most recently top officer of Drexel, Burn­
ham, Lambert, Inc., put it this way: "The (business) schools 
must hone their ability to certify that their graduates have 
the character and integrity to use the knowledge gained for 
the benefit-rather than the abuse-of society" (The Wall 
Stroet .Journal, July 27, 1987, p. A19). 
.John Shad, by emphasizing the need for character analysis, 
or 'virtue theory', pointed to the single weakness in the pre­
sent state of the field of business ethics. What Shad, and I 
dare say, all of us want in the business world is not simply 
people who know what principled action is, but rather peo­
ple who exhibit uncommon virtue in maintaining allegiance 
to their principles. That is, we want people of character. 
How does one grow in those human strengths or virtues 
that are so admired in the character of a Jim Burke of J&J 
or a Bill Hewlett of Hewlett Packard? The point here is that 
much of the behavior that is cited as exemplary in the corpo­
rate world, for example the Tylenol decision by Johnson & 
.Johnson or the Hely product recall decision by Proctor and 
Gamble, is not sufficiently explained as just principled action. 
Hathor, what made the top management of these firms cor­
porate heroes in the eyes of many is that they exhibit un­
common virtue in maintaining allegiance to their principles. 
This was demonstrated, for example, in the courage to act 
to protect human welfare even in the midst of incomplete in­
formation, as well as in the integrity and humility in com­
municating with consumers about possible difficulties with a 
product. Some of the virtues highlighted for the professions 
by one ethicist advocating a theory of virtue include perse­
verance, courage, integrity, compassion, candor, fidelity, 
prudence, public-spiritedness, justice and humility. 
Where the virtue of fidelity serves as the glue of a business organization, there is a promise by business to its public that every effort will be made to look out for human welfare within the limits of its operation. The Johnson & Johnson Tylenol withdrawal was not so much a matter of telling the truth (principled action) as it was of being true to its promise (virtuous action). 
The very virtues which may prevent us from going the way of the white collar criminals so prominent in the press today are the same ones that enable us to live in a community here at Notre Dame. To live a humane life with others we develop certain virtues or skills such as honesty, truthfulness, com­passion, loyalty and justice. Often ethical failures are the re­sult of these virtues being eclipsed by the values so dominant in our culture today: efficiency and effectiveness. While effi­ciency and productivity are clearly important, when they be­come the only values reinforced in an organization, slowly people are molded to do whatever will get the job done with­out adverting to broader considerations. Expediency rules the day and business ethics does indeed become an oxy­moron. 
Theories of principles need to be complemented by virtue theory-rules need a context or vision. However, there is also a less obvious point here: In our own professional life we need more than a set of rules to maintain our ethical bearings, we need a vision and set of habits or virtues. We should all have an idea of the sort of person we would like to become and the sort of families and communities we would like to form. The central questions then become: "What sort of person am I shaping?" and "What sort of organization am I shaping?" Is it the sort of person that I want to be? ... the sort of organization I want to be part of? Had Michael Milken or the Silverado crowd asked those questions along the way they might not be where they are today. 
Father Williams is an associate provost and a teacher and researcher specializing in the area ofbusiness ethics. 

Soviets attempt capitalism 

By CATHLEEN MCLAUGHLIN Business Writer 
The Soviet Union's efforts toward a Western-style econ­omy was the focus of a speech by Dave Marzke at the Michi­ana chapter of the National As­sociation of Accountants meet­ing Wednesday. 
Marzke had visited the Soviet Union for three weeks in May as a computer security special­ist with the Citizens as Ambas­sadors program. During his stay in Moscow, Minsk, and Leningrad, Marzke had an op­portunity to observe the chang­ing economic system. 
The Soviet Union's switch to­ward capitalism has left some hurdles to overcome. 
The central economic plan­ning system has caused the most difficulty, particularly be­cause of the central pricing sys­tem followed by the govern­ment, said Marzke. Prices of both inputs and outputs are legislated by the government rather than determined by the market. This method makes it difficult for supply and demand to equilibrate. 
Government regulated prices 
DaveMarzke 
along with imposed annual quotas also make the economy unstable. The quotas are not based oa any sort of demand analysis so variations in taste tend to cause shortages. Citi­zens do not have the option of going to another store or pro­ducer because there is no com­petition. 
You can usually find what you are looking for, as long as it is not something that is in short supply, but your choice is very limited, Marzke said. However, if you can't find it in the stores there is a "healthy black mar­ket'' in operation. Most items tend to be stolen or homemade since selling government items would be too risky. 

To assist the transition to 

capitalism many Western com­panies have become involved in joint ventures in Hussia. 
The 'cooperatives', as they are referred to, are self funding companies which receive no support from the government. Cooperatives are still required to adhere to government regu­lations and high taxes are le­vied against them. The high taxes function to bring in Eu­ropean money which helps the Soviet economy. 
Currently, Pepsi, Ben and Jerry's and McDonald's are a few of the companies involved in joint ventures in the Soviet Union. The Western companies do not take money out of the Soviet Union, since Soviet money is worthless in Western markets. 
Instead, companies take their revenues in the form of goods. Pepsi has received shipments of 
vodka  to  sell  in  the  United  
States.  Ben and Jerry's has re- 
see SOVIET I page 6  

Housing starts continue to decline 
Eight-month slump is the longest on U.S. record 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Hous­
ing starts skidded 0.6 percent 
in September, continuing an 
eight-month slide that has be­
come the longest decline on 
record, the government said 
Wednesday. Analysts foresee no 
improvement before next year. 
"The expectation is, we will 
slide down gradually into the 
first quarter," which should be 
F. Seiders, chief economist with the N a tiona! Association of Home Builders. 
"The basic trend ... is declin­ing levels of new construction" through the first quarter, 
chief economist with the Mort­
gage Bankers Association. 
The Commerce Department said starts of new homes and apartments fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.14 million units on top of a 1 per­cent drop in August. 
It was the first time starts had fallen for eight consecutive months since the department began recording them in 1959. And the September level was the lowest since construction fell to 1.05 million units in Au­gust 1982 during the last re­cession. 
Seiders said the Home Builders are forecasting starts to total just 1.04 million this year, down from 1.38 million in 1989 and 1.49 million in 1988. Already, starts are off 10.4 percent from the first nine September alone, when another 20,000 jobs were lost, he 

Housing 

added.
Starts Single-family construction rose 4.2 percent to an annual 
Seasonally adjusted 

rate of 877,000 units last
annual rate, 
month, the first advance in six
millions of units 

months. But Peach noted that 
1.6 single-family starts in the third 
1---------1--------------l 
quarter declined 3.5 percent to LS 864,000 units from the April­the low for the cycle, said David 1---------._.1----------1 May period. 
And multi-family starts1_.4__...._r----l"l-----------j plunged 14.3 percent to 258,000 units at an annual 
1.3 
rate. They had gained 8.3 per­
~-------~~--~~~-------~ 
cent in August, the first ad­
1.2 
vance since last April. 
agreed Richard Peach, deputy 1--___.._......_.._..._..._.._.._...._r------1 Part of the problem with apartment construction, Peach 1-1-·1 said, is the pileup of starts ear­lier this year as builders at­
1989 1990 
Sep. '89 Aug. '90 Sep. '90 

I 1.2s I I 1.14 I I 1.14 I 
Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce  AP  
months of 1989.  
Building  permits,  often  a  

barometer of future construc­tion activity, did not suggest improvement either. They were down 4.2 percent to an annual rate of 1.01 million applications on top of a 3.0 percent drop the previous month. 
The weakness in the housing industry has resulted in the loss of 311,000 construction jobs since last February, Seiders said. Construction unemploy­ment totaled 11.8 percent in tempted to beat a deadline for expensive new regulations de­signed to make apartments more accessible to the handi­capped. 
Other problems for both sin­gle-and multi-family construc­tion, Peach added, included high interest rates and limited sources of financing following the savings and loan crisis. 
Starts dropped 11 percent, to an annual rate of 105,000 units, in the Northeast and 4.4 percent, to 328,000 units, in the West. 
However, starts rose 3.3 per­cent, to 249,000 units, in the Midwest and 3 percent, to 453,000 units, in the South. 
'McPaper', 'McDome'-What's next? McDonald's markets pizza 
OWENSBOHO, Ky. (AP) ­Stacy Mcintire and her visitors want11d something with cheese and sauce, so they did the obvi­nus thing at a not-so-obvious plaee. 
They went out for pizza -at McDonald's. 
"We had company over and we fed four people on two piz­zas for something like $12," she said. "We went to the drive­through and didn't even have to get out of the car. We got it in five minutes." 
Pizza, in the land of all-beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions and sesame-seed buns? Is this a fast-food induced nightmare? 
Not at all. McDonald's, which for years counted its ham­burger sales in the billions, may soon be counting pizza, pasta and other non-traditional offerings in an attempt to boost siuggish U.S. dinner sales. 

Owensboro's four Golden Arches and 10 others across the Ohio River in Evansville, Ind., are among 240 restau­rants nationwide which are test-marketing tomato pies. The 12-inch pies also are being tested in Las Vegas; Hartford, Conn.; Fresno, Calif.; and sub­urbs of Chicago. 
"Our customers are interested in a little more variety and more choices," said Melissa Oakley, spokeswoman at Mc­Donald's Corp.'s Oak Brook, Ill., headquarters. "But we have to be very careful in what we choose. We're still committed to serving a limited menu." 
McDonald's, held up by many as a model American corpora­tion, has long been committed to test marketing. Salads, the McDLT and Chicken McNuggets made the grade; the Hula-burger-two slices of cheese with a slice of grilled pineapple on a toasted bun, did not. 
McDonald's sacrificed fresh dough for frozen in its attempt to make pizza a fast food. Some customers say the dough will be the pizza's downfall. 
"It tastes like cardboard," said 16-year-old Josh Hamburg of Owensboro. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 
a e 8 




Stu_dents pay for degree, not minutes 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michaei Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
,ll•ljkiiJ.TJ 
::..·~.1·11~1 



LETTERS 

Inhumane research procedures torture animals without benefit for humanity 
Dear Editor: 
October 20, 1990, could be one of the most exciting days for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students this year. The day will entail cheering, party­ing, tailgating and just plain going nuts. Yet this is not all that will occur. Grace Hall's 24 Hour Run 1990 will have kicked off its fund-raising for the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
The Center, located at 803 North Notre Dame Avenue, helps families and residents of the neighborhood who are not in the best of situations. Activities include trash cleanup, dealing with area recreational problems, the establishment of the "Neighborhood Watch" program to reduce crime and technical assistance to elderly and low-income homeowners. Also, volunteers of the Center have distributed basic food and clothing commodities to hun­dreds of local residents. 
To run the Center, about $15,000 is needed annually. The state used to fund the 
OOONESBURY 
I'[) JU5TBaN LA/0 OF!; ANO I WAS (j(}/N6 NOWHeR& Rt:Al­FAST, 50 MYtu/Ff3 5&NTAWAY 
FOR 7H&S/3 ~y !31<0CHU!<l3S ANO :iTAR:r50 R8Af)ING 7Ht:M 
70 M& OV~ !3ReAI<:FAST. .. 
Center, but since 1984 the grant has not been renewed. This is where the community's help and fund-raisers like Grace Hall's 24 Hour Run is needed to maintain the operation of the Center. 
Starting at noon on Friday, Oct. 19, Digger Phelps, Tim Roemer and students of Grace will be taking turns running around the campus. However, this unbelievable accomplish­ment in itself will not raise the money. A tent will be set up in the Fieldhouse Mall where Grace residents will be asking for donations. Note: these stu­dents are not going to harm you, so avoiding or ignoring them is unnecessary. A gift of loose change, a bill, or more will be greatly appreciated by the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
To make this exciting week­end complete, remember Grace Hall's 24 Hour Run and its need for donations. 
Karl Nass Grace Hall Oct. 10, 1990 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the article by Shannon Ryan (The Observer, Oct. 10) which explained Dr. Richard Doyle's view that medical research us­ing animals is necessary and acceptable. As a person con­cerned with animal welfare, I would like to challenge his views and balance the article with some additional informa­tion. 
First, Dr. Doyle mis­characterizes the position of animal rights groups when he says that they "attempt to con­fer human rights upon animals and present them as equals." The views of Peter Singer, a leading authority on the animal rights movement, are articu­lated in the book Animal Liberation. Singer makes it clear that animal rights ac­tivists do not claim that animals are equal to humans, but merely that animals share with humans the capacity to feel pain, and that their pain should 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the Viewpoint letter entitled, "Cancellations cost students a bundle," (The Observer, Oct. 11). In the letter, three Lewis 
_women complained that for each cancelled class, the University was cheating them out of their $26.67 of paid tu­ition. I would like to ask, "Do you actually think you can buy an education?" Learning can be attained practically free; the only costs are the investment of some time and a lot of initiative. Almost anyone can pick up a book at the local library and not be discounted. 
I also disagree with Dr. Doyle's portrayal of the existing state of animal research and the laws which govern it. He implies that most research is humane and of great benefit to mankind, when in fact the majority of animal research is severely painful and unrelated to saving human lives. Moreover, the federal Animal Welfare Act and funding re­quirements provide little pro­tection for research animals. While the act provides for cer­tain constraints on research using cats, dogs and primates (an estimated five percent of animal research), no procedure is actually illegal. Researchers can and do burn, freeze, elec­trocute, starve, poison, drown, blind and dismember live ani­mals without anesthetic. 
Finally, I would like to emphasize that the views of Dr. Doyle are not representative of the medical profession. A growing number of physicians are objecting to the use of ani­mals in biomedical research. The non-profit organization "Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine" is a group of physicians who oppose research on animals and promote alternatives including cell, organ, tissue and bacteria cultures, clinical and epidemio­logical surveys and mathematic and computer models. The group has begun to impact the medical community's views on animal research. For example, in the past two years, twelve medical schools have stopped using dogs as part of their educational curriculum. 
Because an estimated 40 million animals are used each 
· year in the United States for research purposes, and such research is largely paid for with tax dollars, the issue is deserving of public concern. 
Jere Recob Off-campus 
Oct. 12. 1990 
educate him/herself. 

Most students agree that sit­ting in a classroom for the full fifty minutes does not guaran­tee any additional learning. The fact remains that the material learned in the classroom is a minute aspect of students' edu­cation. So, what does tuition money pay for? The answer is obvious: a Notre Dame degree. 
A Notre Dame degree opens the world to students. if they want it to. The four years which students purchase expose them to an infinite number of experiences, ranging from free 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
lectures by world renowned speakers to Chicago trips. So, the next time your class is can­celled, use the time and make the effort to teach yourself something new. Visit the Snite Museum of Art or volunteer your time at the homeless shel­ter. The question should not be whether the faculty is cheating you of your investment, but, rather, are you cheating your­self? 
Jill Liebler 
Walsh Hall 
Oct. 11. 1990 
OfCOURS& 

'How much you do is important.
NOT, RAY. AT 0400,1 CAN'T 613T &NOUGH 

How well you do it is decisive.' 
OF YOUR.. 
Ufe 
Anonymous 


Accent 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 
page 9 

'The Happy Hooker' 
Security guard Jeanne Miller latch-hooks aspects of NO life for Lyons Hall 
By LISA EATON 
Accent Writer 
A visit to Lyons Ilall is no lonw~r complntn without a visit to thn now famous latch-hook rugs (at lnast among Lyonites) of Jnannn Milh~r. the hall's se­curity guard for thn past sixteen ynars. 
For many years now Joanne has lwPn hooking her way into tlw !warts of all who meet her and she has definitely left her mark upon tlw halls of Lyons. Tlw latrh-hook portraits of Fr. llnsburgh and Lyons llall arn continual rnmindnrs of all that .Jeanrw has donn for Notre Damn and for "her girls" at Lyons llall. 
.Jnanne started this hobby many ymtrs ago to give herself sornnthing to do to while away the many quiet hours of the night. .Jeanne's youngest daughter, Lori, had a kit that somnonn had given her for Christmas that she did not have thn tirnn to start. One night .leannn gave it a try, and the rnst, as they say, is history. She fnll in love with it immediately and has benn hooked ever sincn. Shn was dubbed "The Ilappy !looker" because of her nnw found hobby. 
Through tlw ynars, .Jeanne has passnd from a rank ama­tnur to a latch-hook profes­sional. Slw now dnsigns hHr work lwrsnlf. Thn enormous rug of Lyons llall was her first major work and she has now progrnssPd to portraits of such Notrn Damn favorites as FathHr Tlwodon~ llesburgh and Lou lloltz. 
Last ynar .Jnannn celebrated hnr fiftnenth anniversary as a security guard at Lyons Hall. 
During thn surprisn party the hall threw for her, she was fi­nally able to present Father Ilesburgh with the rug that had been sitting in her closet for two years. Now framed and hanging in a prominent position in the dorm, the latch-hook is a reminder to all not only of the great things Father llesburgh has done for Notre Dame but also of all the great things Jeanne has done for Notre Dame. 
Jeanne started working at Notre Dame in 1974 when Lyons was first converted to a women's dorm. She remembers her first night vividly. "The night was so wild and crazy. We had a brand new rector, assistant rector, and five R.A.s and me. We hardly knew what we were doing. This was all so new to us." 
Despite some initial frustra­tions and crazy times, Jeanne cannot imagine doing anything else. "If is wasn't for the girls and the people, I wouldn't have stayed all these years. I would really miss it. I'll walk by rooms, and I'll still remember from.. years back who lived hern. 
She still keeps in touch with all of the rectors with whom she has worked throughout the years. "Closeness with the staff has kept me here for all these years," statns Jeanne. Her job keeps her young, she says, be­cause she has to keep up on all of the latest college "lingo." 
Jeanne can certainly tell many stories about her years at Lyons from the wild and crazy 1970's when there was no alco­hol policy of any importance to today. Jeanne has watched many generations of students 


Jeanne Miller, security guard of Lyons Hall, presented Father Hesburgh with a latch-hook rug of himself at her fifteenth anniversary party thrown by the hall. 
pass through the university, and she thinks that students are getting more mature and responsible each year. 
Jeanne has put her many life experiences, including those that occurred in Lyons, into words. She has written her life story entitled "Sentimental Journeys" which documents her life from the time she was five years old until the present. She has also written "Lyons-zoo-ol­ogy #101" which tells all about everything that she has seen, heard, and experienced as a se­curity guard for Lyons Hall. 
One of her favorite stories is about the winter of 1977 when it snowed so much that school was cancelled and everything was shut down. Jeanne carne to work through a snowstorm because she knew that they were going to need her that night. She ended up being stuck at Lyons, having to spend the night at the firehouse for two nights. She wrote in her book, "The students really started to 'climb the walls.' They ran out of beer and couldn't get out to buy any." When she returned a couple days later she brought apples and and "a lot of munchies [for] the girls." She was mobbed. Everything was gone in fifteen minutes. 
Jeanne says that she feels more like a house mother than a security guard. She is always there to take care of illnesses, injuries, and anything else that comes up during the night. She often walks the halls and sees people up typing papers and thinks to herself, "If I could only type her paper for her so she could go to bed." 
Being a good listener is an essential part of Jeanne's job. She has had men and women alike come to her in the middle of the night to just talk about whatever. She has been the first person that some have told of their engagements. She says, "I try not to give advise because I'm still learning, too, and I don't want to give the wrong advise, but I'm a good listener." 
When Jeanne is not busy working at Lyons, she is busy doing something else. Latch­hook is just one of her many hobbies. She knits; one winter she knitted over 250 navy and gold scarves for students and faculty. She is an interior dec­orator in her spare time, spe­cializing in Christmas trees. One Christmas Jeanne and her husband, Dale, had an upside down Christmas tree because "the world was turning upside down." 
She also golfs; she was one of the first women to join the Ladies Golf League at Notre Dame. Before Burke Memorial Golf Course would allow women on the course, Jeanne dressed up as a man because she was determined to play on Notre Dame's golf course. She made it to the fourth hole. 
Destiny seems to have brought Jeanne to Lyons Hall. She was born the same year Lyons was built. When Jeanne was younger and dating NO men, she broke parietals, ironi­cally, in the same dorm (thnn a male dorm) where she would end up enforcing parietals as a security guard. Many students and rectors have come and gone through Lyons, but Jeanne is always there, no matter what. 
Perhaps Jeanne was summed up best by the Lyonite who said, "She is sooo cool." That's Jeanne, security guard, house mother and woman of many hobbies. 

CBS' sitcom 'Uncle Buck' disappoints viewers with unsuccessful humor 
The endless pursuit for a new and humorous sitcom contin­ues, and it will still continue after viewing "Uncle Buck," for this program most definitely does not fill this gap. Continuing the trend of the cur­rent television season, "Uncle Buck" exhibits a lack of both humor and originality. 
"Uncle Buck" can be viewed on Monday nights at 7:00p.m. on CBS, and although hard to believe, it finds its basis in the movie of the same name. If the astute moviegoer is able to re­member, and it may be easy to forget this particular film, the reviews of "Uncle Buck" the movie were not tremendously stellar. John Candy was said to have a few moments of minor comedy, but the movie as a whole was average at best. 
Why would CBS then choose to base an entire series on a relatively unsuccessful movie? NBC seemed to make a better choice with "Parenthood," for that work did meet with a number of successful reviews, but CBS' decision seems a bit ridiculous. 
The background of "Uncle Buck" is easily understood, but then complexity is not a trade­mark of its genre. Uncle Buck Russel (Kevin Meany) has be­come the guardian of his late brother's three children. In his care are Tia (Dah-Ve Chodan), 
MARC JOHNSON 
TO BE CONTINUED... 
who is age 16, Miles (Jacob Gelman), who is 8, and Maizy (Sarah Martineck), who is 6. 
Buck is the antithesis of the man one would desire to care for the children. He is quite a slob, a bit ignorant, and some­what crude, but he is a Chicago Cubs fan, so he is definitely not all bad. 
Uncle Buck exhibits this well­meaning side in the episode this week. His girlfriend Stacy has returned, and the plot revolves around the conflict that Buck faces between his easy going past and the responsibility of his future. 
When Uncle Buck first re­unites with Stacy, his romantic intentions are stymied by the fact that he cannot find a baby­sitter for the two youngest children. Tia is finally bribed into the task. Buck asks Stacy, "How much money do you have?" When she responds $50, Buck says that won't do. When she then responds with a plane ticket (she is a stewardess}, Buck says that will do. Our only response can be that this hu­mor won't do. 
Buck does go on a date with Stacy, and their relationship is as strong as ever. It is so strong that Buck and Stacy decide to marry. The series here throws the viewer a major twist because instead of the children being a hindrance to the rela­tionship, they are the catalysts for Stacy's feelings. What a move of pure genius. In the end the romance dies because nei­ther party really asknd if they loved the other. 
If you just finished reading this last paragraph and are somewhat confused, then do not feel terribly upset. I had a very difficult time with the ro­mantic Buck Russel. A fat guy in a tight shirt and shorts is not my concept of a love machine. 
I had heard that "Uncle Buck" was a slightly off-color series, and I was hopeful that a couple crude jokes might have been learned before the demise of Buck and Stacy's fling. There was one joke about Miles writ­ing his name in the snow, but it seemed fairly tame. On a previ­ous show Maizy said to Miles "You suck," but college students have heard worse. 
In general, I was disappointed by the quality of "Uncle Buck" as I have been disappointed by most television series this fall season. Each is approached with an open mind, and perhaps the positive review is just around the corner. Then again, don't hold your breath. 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m at the, Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 

..  NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, summer, J-term, Graduate and Internship programs. All run under $6000. Curtin University. 1-800-878-3696. knock knock ... who's there? the grace hall run who? the grace hall 24 hour run October 19-20 noon-noon !Fellowship and Fun! Inter-Varsity meeting 7:30 p.m. Friday Stanford Chapel BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. & Howard. 233-2342 I NEED A RIDE TO D.C. AREA FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. CALL INGO AT 289-4860 TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST STUDENTS IN ECON STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 Lost and Found LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. If found, please call Rene 277­9468. Reward offered. FOUND! blue nike nylon jacket in o'shag computer lab. call x1511 to claim! HELP! HELPI HELP! HELP!!!!!!!!!!!LOST: BROWN COACH I. D. HOLDER AND KEY CHAIN HOOKED TOGETHER. LOST NEAR KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUILDING. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP ME FIND IT. THEY ARE VERY IMPORTANT AND VITAL TO MY LIFE FUNCTIONING. ALL OF MY J.D.'S AND KEYS ARE ON IT. I CAN'T GO HOME WITHOUT IT. IF YOU HAVE SEEN IT PLEASE CALL ME OR RETURN IT-ANY PART OF IT! $REIII1ARD$$REWARD$REWAR 0$ TO THE WONDERFUL PERSON WHO FINDS IT AND RETURNS IT TO ME. CALL MELISSA AT X2580 X2580 X2580 X2580 WHEN YOU FINDIT!!I!!!!!I!!!II!!  Make Money Watching T.V.! EXCITING new method. Amazing 24 hour recorded message reveals details. Caii512-5B5-4BOB Ext. 101. HELP! I need ride to PITT after Miami $ JoAnne 1275 NEED RIDE TO PHILLY! X3191 Juan Wanted: Keyboard player for N.D. hockey games. Please call 239-5227. For Rent Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3 1/2 baths, 2 family rooms with plenty of room. Professors or mature students welcome. 272­B939. 1 BDRM. EFFICIENCY APT. $160/MO. CLOSE TO NO. 702 HILL ST. 277-0B73. STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271·1B33 AFTER 8PM TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALLJANE 271-1920 NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure apts: 1 bdrm-$275 3 bdrm-$3BO r·~;~;,, O'HARE to NWRK Sun 10/21 7pm $100 Dave#1100 FOR SALE: THREE MIAMI SENIOR STUDENT TIXS--40 YD LINE!! !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER BY THURS(10/1B). CALL DAVE OR MARK X1219 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE X277B Plane Ticket: SBN to HTFD Saturday Eve. Must Sell! Jim X1353 1977 BUICK SKYHAWK Hatchback, runs great! New parts. $650(or B.O.) 2BB-0426 I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Tix call X 1346 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726 For Sale, Cheap Plane Ticket to FLORIDA,for Fall Break, Call Vince 1396  rt plane ticket SB to Houston leaving 1 0/19 returning 10/29. $120 I caii2B4-4094. must be female.I TICKETS I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 HELP! This means YOU. I need two GA's for Miami game. Will pay $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or hotel reservations for any game. Amy 1289. Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 TOP $for Your Ga tix to all home games call277-9357 Patty ND GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (BIB) 591­2625. Need 2 GA's for Penn St call Ryan x1 04B FOR SALE: 4 Student and 2 Married Student Miami Tix DAVE X3024 FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home games. Call Joe X 1 688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 234-7644 We have tickets to all HOME games!! call Estevan or Ritchie @2275 THIS IS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY­HELP THE NEEDY ­NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud HAVE MERCY!!! MIKI 2B4-43B6 Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD EJ x1 053 I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI ROSIE 4025 ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S FOR FAMILY. Call collect at night 601-362-2339 or X3140 for questions. 2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT 277-9406 ROUND-TRIP AMERICAN AIRLINES TICKET (EXP. 12/14/90 AND NOT GOOD T.G. WEEK) BEST OFFER. 259-7820.  need 4 Penn. St. GAs BIG MONEY. Rob 259-326B NEED TICKETS FOR NO-PITT x3684 2GA'S FOR SALE FOR MIAMI. BEST OFFER BY 10/19. CALL #2745 LEAVE OFFER. HAVE: MIAMI STUD NEED: 2 PENN ST. GA's Call MARK@ 4125 Need 4 std. GA's for Miami. Should be in groups of 2 or 4. Ph. 233-2651. MIAMI STUDENT TIX FOR SALE CALL X2911 OR X2915 W/OFFER HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC CHRIS X34B2 4 SALE: MIAMIGA'S MIAMI STUDENTS X1167 I NEED MIAMI & PENN ST GA'S BRIAN 2049 NEED MIAMI TIX CALL2210 WANTED: MIAMI STUD. TIX 2MIAMIGA'S PLEASE CALL xt B40 Selling 2 Stu Miami Tixs 255-5283 SELL-3 Sid Tix MIAMI caii2B7-9763 FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC. 2BB­5859, 7-B AM + EVENINGS. MIAMI STUDENT TIX CALL 288-2956 1 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL JEN X26B7 FOR SALE 50 yd. line stud. ticket for THE MIAMI game ! ! ! Call John @ X3B95 •#"fo@#$% MIAMI STUD. TIX FOR SALE!!! call Eric x1575 btwn 12:00-3:00 after 11:00 BEST OFFER!!! •#"fo@#$% 2 MIAMI STUD TICKETS CALL WITH OFFER x2499 NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL TOM 273-0302 MIAMI AND PENN ST. STUDS 4 SALE! CALL NOW X2546  SALE! 2 Penn St. stu 2719714 NEED 1 Miami STUD or GA-Call Kevin at 233-8959 One Penn stud tic left Joe@2B9-1769 Need 4 Miami GAs (together or pairs) call Matt #2052 I NEED MIAMI GAs!! x1277 Need Miami ticket (stu or GA) for my little sister. Please call Steve x2366 HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609. NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!\! JUST WON THE LOTTERY-­I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 Wealthy Alumni Desparately Need Miami Tix Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X3797 NEED1-2GA-MIAMI X14B8 NEED PITTSBURGH GA's CALL MATT #1159 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 2B3-181B and leave a message. I NeEd MiAmi StUd Call ToBy 4010 MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! Divorced Alum Dad in Houston has plane, car, and hotel. Need Miami Tix for GAME on son's 12th Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­7604 after 7. I NEED B PENN ST. GA's AND ALL I HAVE IS $$$ CALL TIM @2B3-2704 NEED 2 MIAMI GA #2790 Need Miami student tix. badly I Call Paul at x1755 I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA's!! call Kathleen@ 4081 1 pair Miami married stud. tix for sale. GOOD AS GA'S. 273-9349  I CAN'T PAY HIGH SCUMMY SCALPER PRICES, BUT CAN AFFORD A FAIR $40 PER TICKET FOR G.A'S FROM A DESCENT PERSON. CALL 272 9602 AFTER 7:00-JEFF MIAMI STUD. TICKET BEST OFFER CALL 2B7-B793 4SALE 2 MIAMI STUD BEST OFFER #4635 I need Miami tix! Tim 271-B795 Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x15B1. Will beat any offer. I need Miami Student tix.!!!! Call Lloyd 287-221B Need Miami Stud & GAs. Call Matt @ 273-1849 TRADE; have 1 Miami tix; need 4 Penn state students; Jeff x3374 4 SALE: 2 MIAMI STUD TIX, BEST OFFER . 234-2728 2 NAVY TICKETS TO SELL. CALL JOHN 703-52B-B2BB. $$$FOR ANY TXS TO MIAMI GAME GAISTUDENT. H-203-953­B571, W-203-677-8556. I will pay $2BO for your 2 Miami GA's Call Bob 2B9-0922 ##################### Need Miami GA's Please call Pat at #1 010. ##################### Need Miami ST Tickets? Call 271-0B52 After 8.30 PM. NEED BOTH MIAMI AND PENN STATE GA's!! PLEASE CALL 284-4350 ask for Kristin ·cALL A.S.A.P: 1 Miami student ticket for sale to best offer. Chris x3033. NEED MIAMI STUDS/GAS BAD PLEASE CALL X3028 $$$$$ FOR SALE-MIAMI STUD. TICK. CALL AFTER 5 -2BB-9545 NEED MIA GA'S •cALL DAVE X1407 FOR SALE: MIAMI STUDENT TIX. REASONABLE PRICE CALL JOHN X1698 Two Miami stud tix for sale call Mike X1565 I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. HAVE A MAX OF $50 TO SPENO ON EACH. PLEASE CALL DAVE X1045.  
FOUND: "precious" stone outside SCH Call Ken 239-5611 to identity. ( WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. NEEDED: Ride from STL to SBN for 1 or 2 people Oct. 28. Will share expenses, driving. Please call Kathy x3631 or Tim x1466. Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. NEEDED: Ride to!lrom Dallas for break. Will help pay for gas. Diane x5468 WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 College Students: Earn up to $500/week between or after classes, stuffing envelopes. Don't Delay. For info: Send SASE to DAWalker P.O. Box 14245, Washington D.C., 20044-4245  Round-trip ticket to San Jose leaving 1 0/19, returning 1 0/29 $250/ x3958-leave a message 0 SAY CAN YOU SEE 2 MIAMI-PENN (ST) 4 THEE #1619 & ASK FOR LEE EXECUTIVE COUNTRY RETREAT, 4 BR, 2400 SF on 3.6 acre + pond. $123,900. RE/MAX 100 Realty 255-5B5B. Mary Jo Shively 277-2279. FOR SALE LOVELY TOWNHOUSE IN FARMINGTON. 1B43' of formal living, plus 1468' finished in basement. 3 bedrooms, 2-1/2 baths, First Floor Master Suite. 2 Car All. Gar. 10 mins from Campus. Call for private showing ...Noreen O'Brien-Ladewski 234-5429. RE/MAX 100 -255-585B. You don't need I.D. to Games! Sale: 2 Miami Married stu. Tix 1 Penn State married Tix.Call: 271-9059 Sale! Making a deal TV FOR SALE!!! 12-inch, black­and-white, portable television set for sale. Excellent condition. Make me an offer (trust me, I'm a VERY reasonable guy). Call x1208 and leave an offer for Paul.  I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at x1809. NEED GA TIX FOR MIAMI. 1-800-323-76B7 RANDY. WILL PAY TOP $$$. NEED MIAMI GA'S. BIG $$$. CALL 233-4693. HELP!!! I NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND STUDS. PLEASE CALL JOHN X2352 X2384 FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TIK CALL-JIM 288-2743 NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD. PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-933B I have 1 MIAMI stud. ticket to sell ­call Chrissy x395B -leave a message and phone # 1 Miami student tik. for sale call me at 3213, we'll make a deal. 3213 For Sale! 2 Miami GAs or 1 student Call Andy @ 1563  SELLING 2 MIAMI STO, 1 PENN CALL LUIS 273-152B 2 MIAMI & PENN ST TIX FOR SALE 272-6459 I need Miami Ga's!! HELP and call 288-0597 I WILL PAY YOU LOTS OF MONEY FOR 4 PENN ST. GA's. CALL FLO x1696 2 MIDFIELD SEATS -NO-USC. (213) 273-9400, ROSLYN. I NEED MIAMI TICKETS! CALL TOM @' X2259. .... SELLING .... 2 MIAMI TICKETS: Two married student tickets on 40yrd. line. Call 2B2-9399, leave name, #, and offer by 10-19-1990. Need MIAMI GAs. Please call Darrell at 283-3302. Need 1 Miami GA x3791 NEED 4 MIAMI GA's CALL x2012  I need 2 Miami GA's II!!!!!!!! and 1 Miami student ticket, call Allison, 2732 Interested in going to the Tennessee game?? Call for information about a bus trip from South Bend that includes: transportation, hotel and TICKETS. Call Beth at 2B8-0597 for details NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MIAMI CHRIS x1067 Need a Miami stud. tik soon? Let's talk. XI B99 Mike NEED MIAMI GAs JOE X1761 Will trade Penn St GA's for Tenn. GA's Tim X3515 6 Miami GS's Best offer by 1011 B call 273-1364 FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI Stud Ticket Best Offer by 1 0/18 Tim x3015 7:30-? PM A CORPORATE PROBLEM. NEED 9 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY$$$. 1-262-4990.  HELP!! MUST SELL MIAMI STUD. TIX\11 GOOD PRICE! X2594 NOT-SO-WEALTHY ALUM (&GENUINE NO FAN) WILL PAY FACE FOR YOUR 2 EXTRA MIAMI TIX 272-3229 FOR SALE: MIAMI STUD TIC X4243 Need Penn St. tix. 2 GA's and 1 student. Jay X2290 I need 2 Miami GAs Bill x4274 wanted: three tickets (G.A. or stud.) to Penn State game. Call Marc at x2358. MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE x2546-NOW MIAMI STUD TICK FOR SALE CALL NELL x2525 FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI STUD. TIX. CALL X2094 see CLASS I page 11  

~ -~---------~~ 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Sabres lose again 
BUFFALO. N.Y. (AI'J-Mike Turcotte, who has scored at Keane scored twice as the least one point in all seven Montreal Canadiens took a 4-3 games this season, converted a <Incision over the Buffalo goalmouth feed from Hay Sabres, who remainnd winless Sheppard while Phil Sykes and after the first six games of the Handy Carlyle were in the NilI. season. penalty box. Keane sc.on)d both his goals on Gartner added an insurance tip-ins of blocknd teammates' goal at 13:50 for New York, shots. Keane pushed the puck which outshot Winnipeg 34-28. past Sabrns goalie Daren Puppa The Rangers. who have surren­arter l'uppa stopped shots by dered 182 shots in their five Eric Desjardins in the first wins, had outshot only the period and Shayrw Corson in Minnesota North Stars in their thl) SI)COnd. seven games. Brian Skrudland and Denis Savard also scored for the Devils 3, Capitals 2 Canadiens, and Savard also Kirk Muller's disputed goal with recorded two assists. as 5:54 remaining in regulation Montrnal outshot thn Sabres gave the New Jersey Devils a 3­:n-30. 2 victory over the Washington l'ierrP Turgeon srorPd twice for Capitals. Buffalo. whose 0-4-2 record is the worst six-gamt) start in The victory kept the Devils franrhisP history. unbeaten at home 14-0-1) while 
the Capitals lost their third in a 

Rangers 5, Jets 3 row and fourth in five games. llarn•n Turcottl' 's tin-brPaking Paul Ysebaert set up the win­power-play goal at 2:47 of the ning goal when he led a rush third period, his 'third point of into the Capitals' zone, swung tlw ganw, liflPd the Nnw York behind the net and fed Peter Hangers to a 5-3 win over the Stastny for a backhander. Winnipeg Jets Wednesday Stastny's shot glanced off night. Muller's left skate and squirted Brian Mullen and Mike Gartner past goaltender Don Beaupre. scored twice for the Hangers, The Caps unsuccessfully who won their fifth straight protested to referee Andy van­game and extended the Jets' Hellemond that Muller kicked losing streak to six. the puck into the goal. 
Lynn is gone, but Vikings vow to keep Burns for remainder of year 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. (AP)  - the World League of Ameriean  
Jerry Burns will coach the  Football, the NFL's  new inter­ 
Minnesota Vikings for the rest  national entity that is scheduled  
of the 1990 season, general  to begin play next spring. Lynn  
manager  Mike  Lynn  said  has been a big Burns supporter.  
Wednesday.  While a subdued Burns told  
Burns hinted Tuesday that he might consider stepping down  reporters that he might use the Vikings' week off to mull his  
before  the  end  of his  fifth  immediate future, Lynn was in  
season.  But Lynn said, "I asked  Chicago on NFL business. Lynn  
him specifically about it. He  said he read about Burns' feel­ 
said  he's  not  giving  any  ings in Wednesday morning's  
thoughts at all to leaving the  newspapers.  
Vikings."  
Coming off an NFC Central championship and its third  I talked to Jerry as soon as I got back today," Lynn said  
straight postseason appear­ Wednesday. "I asked him how  
ance, Minnesota (1-5) has been  he was feeling and he said he  
the NFL's most disappointing  was fine to continue coaching.  
team this year. Its most recent  "It was a  tough week for him.  
loss,  32-24  Monday  at  With  me doing what I did and  
Philadelphia on national televi­ then  having  to  go  to  
siOii,  came after the Vikings  Philadelphia and lose the way  
blew a late nine-point lead.  we lost that particular game, it  
Things became unsettled last  would be tough on anyone. But  
week when Lynn announced  he's fine now."  
that he would s1ion leave the  Burns couldn't be reached for  
Vikings to become president of  comment.  
Class continued from page 10 I need PIIT tickets desperately. If you have some you want to sell, please call Kathy x4937.  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR YOUNG ALUMNI AND WIFE COMING IN FROM BOSTON CALL 277-9452. PERSONALS  HEY ALL YOU MONKEY HEADSI!! Come watch SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY perform at Bridget's on Thursday night. It promises to be a strikingly purple, flowing, and bald production.  To the beautiful blonde who walked through the Flanner Pit after midnight on 10112 and loved the song "Leningrad," what are you doing on Nov. 3? I would be honored if you would go to my SYR with me. THE PIANO MAN  SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN Miami Tickets 4 Sale (ST) Call Dalys x4244 Don't Miss The Final Conflict!  
I need 2 PURDUE GA's $$$  hiag  
call Joe X 1599  SUBLIMINAL MESSAGE ...  
Miami and Penn State stud. tickets. Call Bob 273~ 1442 Helpll Need Penn State GAs. Call Michael at 258-1 024 before 9pm  Geg Klimczak, go back to Dayton where you belong. you schmuck. Thanks for coming to visit. don't be a stranger. Love and tongue kisses, John. P.S. Tara Abbott is a geek.  On Thursday night, the band SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY will play at an establishment that serves alcohol (bar) located on Eddy St. (Bridget's).  Hey Sandbox! I'm so glad you're finally here! Its gonna be great spending time with you. I love you.­N.E.R.D. p.s. You're such a sapl!!  GO IRISH  
and I'll make you an offer that you  The Anti~ Elvis is hereby dubbed:  
can't refuse. or leave a message  SIR TALKS ALOT OF THE  



and I'll make your day. 
This is. the tape . 
you have been haarmg 
4abou~ 
®song Parody@ 
"Catholic• Kill Convict•" 
, To get your copy. call now 
271-9482 
2 Miami GA's FOR SALE CALL Mike x3216 DO YOU HAVE HIDDEN ROUND TABLE ARTISTIC TALENT THAT YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO SHOW? 
The Peterson Party TourART EXPO '90 continues ... 
invites ALL members of the ND Got a problem telling the NICOLE SEBASTIAN IS 211community to sign up for this latest RICK(y) Watters joke? 

informal exhibit Nov. 5 &6, in the SUB office from 3-5 pm. or call Don't blame it on the wind!!!!!l!!! 

239-7757. We're here to help. 
Late night strolls at the beach 9 112 hours Hey Judy Blue Eyes! 
CALL x1 FIB (x1342) opportunityThe Simpsons is being shown Pink Floyd every Thursday at 7pm in the Answering machine is waiting for You are the leader (always) Knights of Columbus building. your joke. 
Ice on SaturdayEveryone is welcome and this Need ride from St. Paui/Minn Area Pierced ear on Wednesdayweek the Knights will be serving to N.D. after Oct. break-
free ice cream! 

Please call Lisa at x3738 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1990 
Scoreboard 
-

NHL STANDINGS WORLD SERIES GAME 2 BOX SCORE TRANSACTIONS 
All Tlmea EDT World Serlo By The Aeaociated Preea WALES CONFERENCE By The Auoclated Pre.. BASKETBALL Patrick Dlvlalon Game 2 National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon w L T Pta GF GA 
BATTING SUMMARY LOS ANGELES LAKERS-5igned Irving OAKLAND Thomas, forward.
NY Rangers 5 2 0 10 30 19 ab r h 2b 3b hr rbl SEATTLE SUPERSONICS-Waived JimNew Jersey 4 2 1 9 27 25 

RHdsn II 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 McPhee, guard. Philadelphia 4 2 0 8 25 17 Lansford 3b 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 Continental Baakatball A..oclatlon Pittsburgh 3 3 0 6 25 25 Canseco rl 5 1 1 0 0 1 2 LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed VInce 
NY Islanders 2 3 0 4 15 17 McGwlre 1b 4 1 2 0 0 0 0 Hamlhon, guard. Washington 2 5 0 4 20 27 
DHdsn cl 4 1 2 0 0 0 0 Steinbach c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FOOTBAll
Adama Dlvlelon 

Randoph 2b 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 National Football LeagueHartford 4 2 2 10 26 23 Hassey c 4 0 2 0 0 0 1 CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed Mike Morris,Boston 4 1 1 9 24 16 
Bordlck ss 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 center. Waived Ken Rose, linebacker. Montreal 4 2 1 9 23 23 Gallego 88 4 0 1 0 0 0 1 HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Robert Lyles, Quebec 2 2 3 7 23 27 Baines ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 linebacker, and VInce Courvllle, wide receiver. Buffalo 0 4 2 2 20 25 Eckersley p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Agreed to contrad CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Welchp 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 terms with Joe Ferguson, quarterback. Waived Norrie Dlvlalon Hnyctt p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ken Clark, running back. 
McGee cl 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Traded Vann
w L T Pte GF GA 

Totale 37 4 10 0 0 1 4 McElroy, safety, to the Seanle Seahawks for anChiCago 4 3 0 8 22 17 
undisclosed draM pick.Detroit 3 2 2 8 25 28 CINCINNATI 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Traded David St. Louis 3 3 0 6 15 20 ab r h 2b 3b hr rbl Galloway, defensive end, to the Denver Broncos Minnesota 4 3 15 23 Larkin ss 5 1 3 1 0 0 0 for an undisclosed draft pick. Released Reggie Toronto 0 5 13 28 Hatcher ct 4 2 4 2 1 0 1 McKenzie, linebacker, from injured reserve. Re­
Smythe Dlvlelon 

ONelllrl 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 signed Amod Field, wide receiver, to the pradlce Davis W 5 0 0 0 0 0 1 roster. Announced Bob Clasby, defensive tackle, Los Angeles 4 9 29 16 Morris1b 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 will miss the rest of the season after undergoing
Calgary 4 2 0 8 22 17 Braggs ph 0 0 0 0
1 0 t knee surgery. 
Vancouver 3 2 0 6 19 16 Dibble p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Edmonton 2 2 4 17 20 Bates ph 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 
HOCKEY Winnipeg 6 3 23 28 National Hockey League
Sabo 3b 5 0 3 0 0 0 0 Wedneeday'e Game• Oliver c 5 1 2 1 0 0 t WINNIPEG JETS-Signed Thomas Steen,
Duncan 2b 3 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lata Gamea Not Included r""'ter, to a munlyear contrad. Jackson p 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 American Hockey League
N.Y. Rangers 5, Winnipeg 3 Scudder p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CAPITAL DISTRICT ISLANDERS-Sent MikeHartford 3, Toronto 1 Oester ph 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 KaNer, center, to Kansas City of the International

New Jersey 3, Washington 2 A111"6lngp 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Hockey League. Montreal 4, Buffalo 3 Wnghm ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 E..t Co..t 
Hockey League Minnesota at Los Angeles, (n) Chrttn p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ROANOKE VALLEY REBELS-Named Boston at Vancouver, (n) Benzinger 1 b 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 delenseman Bill Whitfield player-assistant Thursday's Games coach. Traded the rights of Mike Chighisola, 
Totala 40 5 14 4 1 0 5 
forward, to the Cincinnati Cyclones lor future PITCHING SUMMARY considerations. Suspended Bob Dorsey, Kevin Montreal at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. 
Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 

Oakland Harvey and Carey Durant, forwards, for Jailing toToronto at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 
report to training camp.
St. Louis at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 

International Hockey LeagueFriday's Games lp h r er bb eo 
PHOENIX ROADRUNNERS-Announced theWelch 71-3 9 4 4 2 2
Pittsburgh at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Los Angeles Kings traded Scott Harlow, left
Honeycutt 1 2·3 2 0 0 1 0
N.Y. 
Islanders at Washington, 7:35 p.m. wing, to the New Haven Nighthawks of the

Eckersley L,0·1 1·3 3 1 1 0 0

N.Y. 
Rangers at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. American Hockey League for Jerome Bechard 


Total• g 1·3 14 5 5 3 2 leftwing. ' 
Vancouver at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Boston at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Cincinnati Hartford at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. lp h r er bb ao SPORTS CALENDAR 
Jackson 2 2·3 6 4 3 2 0 Scudder 1 1-3 0 0 0 2 2 
Thursday, Oct. 18 no sports scheduled 

A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 Armstng 3 1 0 0 0 3 
Chrltn 1 1 0 0 0 0The Top Twenty Five 
Dibble W,Hl 2 2 0 0 0 2 
Friday, Oct. 19 The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, 
By The Associated Press Men's soccer v. Xavier 7:30p.m.

Totals 10 10 4 3 4 7with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Oct. 13, total points based SCORE BY INNINGS Saturday, Oct. 20on 25 points tor a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote, and 
Oakland 103 000 000 0-4 
Men's football v. Miami, Fla. 2:30p.m.
last week's rankings: 

Cincinnati 200 100 010 1-5 
Women's soccer v. Calvin College t 0:00 a.m.
Record Pis Pvs One out when winning run scored. 

1. 
Virginia (38) 6·0·0 1,454 2 Men's cross country v. William & Mary t 0:30 

2. 
Miami, Fla. (15) 4-t-0 t,4t4 3 a.m.


E-Jackson, Oliver, Hassey, McGwire. DP-Cincinnati t. LOB-Oakland tO, Cincinnatl10. 2B-larkin,3. Tennessee (2) 4·0·2 t ,354 5 Hatcher 2, Oliver. 3B-Hatcher. HR-Canseco (1). SB-RHenderson (1). S-Lansford, Welch. SF-Hassey.
4. Nebraska (3) 6·0·0 t ,258 7 Umpires-Home, Roe; Firs~ Quick; Second, Hendry; Third, Marsh; Left. Barnett; Right, Pulli.

5. Auburn 4-0·1 1,238 6 T-3:31. A-55,832. . MONEY LEADERS 
6. Notre Dame (1) 4-1-0 1,208 8 7.FioridaSt. 4-t-0 1,046 tO 

TENNIS 8. Illinois 4-t-0 971 tt 
Women 

9. Houston (t) 5·0·0 963 t2 WORLD SERIES COMPOSITE BOX SCORE 
Through Oct. 14 t 0. Michigan 3·2·0 939 1 
Composite Box WITA Money Leadera t1. Georgia Tech 5·0·0 835 18 
Cincinnati lead• aerie• 2·0 1,SteffiGraf, St,114,070.
t2. Brigham Young 5·1·0 830 t3 By The Aeaoclated Preas 2, Martina Navratilova, $1,041,380.

1J. Washington 5·1·0 786 t7 BATTING SUMMARY 3, Monica Sales, $885,924.

t4. Colorado 5·t·t 762 14 OAKLAND 4, Gabriela Sabatini, $681,783.

15.SouthernCal 5-t-0 761 t6 r h 2b 3b hr rbl avg 5, Jana Novotna, $532,732.

•b
t6. Oklahoma 5-t-0 724 4 Jennings ph t 0 t 0 0 0 0 1.000 6, Zina Garrison, $487,193.

17. Florida 5-t·O 485 9 RHdsn If 9 t 4 2 0 0 0 .444 7, Helena Sukova, $422, t84. 

18. Mississippi 5-t-0 374 24 Hassey c 5 0 2 0 0 0 t .400 8, Arantxa Sanchez VIcario, $420,749. 

19. Texas 3-1-0 354 DHdsn cl 5 1 2 0 0 0 0 .400 9, Natalia Zvereva, $393,363.

20. Indiana 4·0·1 3t2 22 Lansford 3b 8 0 3 0 0 0 0 .375 10, Mary Joe Fernandez, $362,116.

2t. Wyoming 7-0-0 29t 23 McGwire 1b 7 1 2 0 0 0 0 .286 Men 22. Clemson 5·2·0 278 15 

Steinbach c 4 0 t 0 0 0 0 .250 Through Oct. 14 22. Iowa 4-t-0 278 25 
McGee cl 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 .200 ATP Tour Money Leadere 24. Michigan St. 2-2-t t93 
Canseco rl 7 1 1 0 0 1 2 .t43 1 , Stefan Edberg, St,251,991.25. Texas A&M 4·2·0 t16 20 
Gallego 88 8 0 1 0 0 0 1 .125 2, BOfls Becker, St,102,332.Other receiving votes: Texas Christian 89, Oregon 83, South Carolina 36, 
Randolph 2b 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 .t25 3, Ivan Lend!, $973,182.
Ohio St. 15, California t4, Penn St. 12, Arizona tt, Louisville 5, Toledo 5, S. 

Welch p 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 4, Andres Gomez, $800,890.
Mississippi 4, UCLA 2. Baines ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 5, Andre Agassl, $785,212. Stewartp 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 6, Pete Sa!'lll'as, $732,697. Bordlck sa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 7, Goran lvanlsevic, $641,510. Bums p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 8, Emilio Sanchez, $542,324. By The Associated Pr966 Ett<eroley p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 9, Brad Gilbert, $511,803. Team• that took 2~ leada In World Serlee play and the reaulte Hnyctt p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 tO, Thomas Muster, $492,597. 
Nelson p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 1907-Chicago (NL), defeated Detroit (AL) 4-0 Sanderson p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
WORLD SERIES FACTS 

Totale 72 u 2 0 4 .264 NFL LEADERS 
4 1 1910-Philadelphia (AL), defeated Chicago (NL) 4·1 1914-Boston (AL), defeated Philadelphia (NL) 4·0 1908-Chicago (NL), defeated Detroh (Al) 4·1 
CINCINNATI AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 1916-Boston (Al), defeated Brooklyn (NL) 4-t •b r h 2b 3b hr rbi avg OFFENSE 1917-Chicago (AL), defeated New York (NL) 4-2 Hatcher ct 7 5 7 4 t 0 2 1.000 Yards Rush Pass 1919-Cincinnati (NL), defeated Chicago (Al) 5-3 Bates ph 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 1.000 Houston 2290 440 t850 192t -New York Yankees (AL), lost to New York Giants (NL) 5-3 
Oester ph 1 0 t 0 0 0 1 t.OOO Kansas City2096 8t0 t286 1922-New York Giants (Nl), defeated New York Yankees (AL) 4.0 Sabo 3b 8 0 4 0 0 0 2 .500 Cincinnati 2014 584 1430 1927-New York Yankees (AL), defeated Pittsburgh (NL) 4-0 Larkin ss 9 2 3 1 0 0 0 .333 Denver t987 744 t243 t928-New York Yankees (AL), defeated St. Louis (NL) 4·0 
Oliver c 9 1 3 1 0 0 1 .333 Jets t942 799 tt43 1929-Philadelphia (AL), defeated Chicago (NL) 4-t Rijo p 3 0 t 0 0 0 0 .333 Seattle t877 703 t174 1930-Philadelphia (AL), defeated St. Louis (NL) 4-2 Davis N 9 2 2 0 Q 1 4 .222 Miami t553 538 10t5 1932-New York Yankees (AL), defeated Chicago (NL) 4-0 Duncan 2b 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 .167 1933-New York Giants (NL), defeated Washington (Al) 4-1 Morrls1b 7 0 1 0 0 0 0 .143 
DEFENSE 1937-New York Yankees (AL), defeated New YorkGiants(NL)4·1 ONelllrl 6 1 0 0 0 0 1 .000 
Yards Rush Pass 
Benzingr 1b 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 PiMsburgh 1496 536 960 1939-New York Yankees (Al), deleated Cincinnati (NL) 4.0 Braggs ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 .000 Miami t282 4t2 870 1947-New YDfk Yankees (Al), deleated Brooidyn (NL) 4·3 Jackson p 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Raiders 1599 527 1072 1950-New York Yankees (AL), defeated Phlladeph\a (NL) 4-0 Wnghm ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Houston 1608 550 t058 1953-New York Yankees (Al), defeated Brooklyn (NL) 4-2 ArrTBtngp 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 San Diego 1756 581 1t75 1954 -New York Giants (NL), defeated Cleveland (AL) 4-0 Chrltnp 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Cleveland t761 663 t098 1955-New York Yankees (AL), lost to Brooklyn (NL) 4-3 1938-New York Yankees (AL), defeated Chicago (NL) 4-0 
Dibble p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Kansas City1839 692 1147 1956-Brooklyn (NL), lost to New York Yankees (AL) 4-3 Myero p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE1958-Milwaukee (NL), lost to New York Yankees (AL) 4-3 Scudder p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 1963-Los Angeles (NL), defeated New York Yankees (AL) 4-0 Totale 71 12 24 6 1 1 12 .338 OFFENSE 1965-Minnesota (AL), lost to Los Angeles (NL) 4·3 
Yards Rush Pass 1966-Bahlmore (AL), defeated Los Angeles (NL) 4-0 
PITCHING SUMMARY San Francisco2044 349 1695 Oakland Rams 1822 459 1363
1970-Banimore (AL), defeated Cincinnati (NL) 4·1 1971 -Baltimore (AL), lost to Pittsburgh (NL) 4·3 g lp h r er bb eo era Atlanta t816 386 t430 1972-Oakland (AL), defeated Cincinnati (NL) 4·3 
Hnyctt 1 1 2·3 2 0 0 1 0 0.00 Philadelphla1783 627 t156 1976-Cincinnati (NL), defeated New York Yankees (AL) 4·0 
Nelson 1 t 1-3 2 0 0 1 0 0.00 Washington1653 625 1028 1978-Los Angeles (NL), lost to New York Yankees (AL) 4-2 1 1 0 0 0.00 t976 1249
Sanderson 1 0 0 Minnesota 727 1980-Phlladephla (NL), defeated Kansas Chy (Al) 4·2 Welch 1 7 t-3 9 4 4 2 2 4.91 Tampa Bay t916 744 1172 
Eckrsly0-1 2 11·3 3 t 1 0 1 6.75
1981-New York Yankees (AL), lost to Los Angeles (NL) 4·2 1985-St. Louis (NL), lost to Kansas City (Al) 4-3 Stewrt0-1 1 4 3 4 4 4 3 9.00 DEFENSE 
Burns 1 2-3
1986-Boston (AL), lost to New York Mats (NL) 4·3 4 3 3 t 0 40.50 Yards Rush Pass 1987-Minnesota (AL), defeated St. Louis (NL) 4·3 Totale 2 17 1-3 24 12 12 II 6 6.23 Giants t221 353 868 t988 -Los Angeles (NL), defeated Oakland (AL) 4-1 Chicago 15t7 548 969 1989-Oakland (Al), defeated San Francisco (NL) 4-0 Cincinnati Philadelphia 1372 345 t027 1810 -Cincinnati (NL) g lp h r er bb eo era Phoenix 1507 6t8 889 
Rljo 1-0 1 7 7 0 0 2 5 0.00 Dallas 1814 791 1023 Armstrong 1 3 1 0 0 0 3 0.00 New Orleans t539 455 1084 Dibble 1-0 2 3 3 0 0 t 2 0.00 Washington1539 445 1094 Scudder 1 1 1·3 0 0 0 2 2 0.00 
Charlton 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0.00 
Myers 1 1 1 0 0 0 2 0.00 Jackson 1 2 2·3 6 4 3 2 0 10.13 Total• 2 u u 4 3 7 14 1.42 
--------~---~-~---------~---­
Thursday, October 18, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Marino presents new problems for Patriots 
MIAMI lAP) -In a s1~ason t hat has hmm had news for the Nnw England Patriots, here's some more: Thny no longer 
have Dan Marino's numbnr. 
Thn Pats won six in a row against Marino's Miami Dolphins from 19X6 to 1988. holding his oiTnnsn to 10 points or lnss four tinws. But Marino has played well in his past three games against New England, and Miami has won tlwm all. 
Thn AFC East rivals meet again Thursday night at Jon Hobbie Stadium. Miami is 4-1 and shan~s the division lead with Buffalo; New England is 1-4 and has lost three consecutive gamns sincP Sf!Veral players were accusnd of sexually harrassing a female reporter. 
The Patriots have been outscored 111-40 during their losing streak. 
"No one really cares what our problems are." coach Hod Bust said. 
"It's a disappointing season right now for us," cornerback Honnie Lippett said. 
In the past, New England could count on getting well against Marino, who holds 18 NFL reeords. Statisties show that no team has done a better job of containing him. 
Marino has thrown more in­terceptions than touchdown passes against only one AFC team -the Patriots. They've intercepted Marino 27 times. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Notre Dame Sailing Team will be condueting a football concession stand this weekend in front of Dillon llall. They will bn selling food. "Tiw Cause" t-shirts, as well as their own team t-shirts. 
"Walk-Away" -The walk today will be led by Dr. Kate llalisehak, Special Assistant to Father Beauchamp and Head Academic Advisor. Everyone is invited to spend 30 minutes walking and talking with Dr, llalischak beginning at Washington Hall. 
The NVA Turkey Shoot will be Nov. 13-14. Sign up at NVA aftnr Fall Brnak. 
Flag Football Drive to eure paralysis will be Nov. 9-11. Sign up at NVA aft1~r break. 
Women's Field Hockey will have practiee today from 4-6 
p.m. on the astroturf. This is the last practice bf!fore we play Goslwn on Oct. :10. Anyone interested can come or eall Suzanne at x417 4 or Mnlissa at 277-7 496. 
Men's basketball will hold an open serimrnage after Friday's pnp rally . Warmups bngin at 8 p.m., with the scrimmage set for 
STEP ON OUT TO 


New England Patriots running back John Stephens, top, flies over Miami Dolphins linebacker Cliff Odom for a touchdown in a game played earlier this season between the two teams. 
T H E 0 D 0 R E' S THIS WEEKEND ! Dance to the tunes of your favorite DJs. Open Thursday and Friday at 9:30 p.m. 


S.A.R.G. 
Student Alumni Relations Group 
in cooperation with the 
Notre Dame Alumni Association 
present 

CAREER PLANNING 
Many students think a Notre Dame degree is all they need. Unfortunately, that isn't always the case. True, a degree from Notre Dame might get your foot in the door, but where you go from there will depend on many other factors. Mr. James Hunt, President of BDS, Incorporated will be honoring us with his insights as to what every undergraduate should be aware of when making decisions about their career. 
This is one in a series of four 
L.A.N.D. Lectures (Life After Notre Dame) presented to the student body. 
The lecture will start promptly at 7:15 pm in the Hesburgh Library. 
ball, we shouldn't expect to wm, outfielder Dave
Series 
Henderson said. "It's simple. You usually lose when you don't
continued from page 16 
play well. This time things worked for 
"They are doing a lot moreOakland. 
things than we're doing.
Hickey Henderson scored the They're tacking on more runsarne's first run in the first. Jose 
in different innings. They're
Canseco hit Oakland's 
keeping the scoring throughfirst postseason horne run in 
nine innings. That's one thingthe third. They played solid de­we're not doing."
fense, Bob Welch did not cave 
And to top everything off,
in to World Series pressure, and 
Dennis Eckersley, who has
still the A's lost. 
pitched as close to flawless this'If we don't play good base­
man the Beds beat with three straight 1Oth-inning singles. 
"You can't make a mistake or you lose when you do what I do," Eckersley said. "I did, and !lost." 
The A's were expected to come to Cincinnati to begin their one­sided march to a series championship, a sweep even. Instead they return to Oakland in quite a spot. 
"We'll just have to get our stuff together in Oakland," Lansford said. "If we keep playing hard, the worm will turn for us. We'll just have to get the job done." 
Clubs 
continued from page 16 
Hudgens. "Lake Michigan was about 45 degrees. I tried to right the boat, but (crew Adrienne Briggs) had to be taken by the crash boat." The A team did not finish the race, and this dropped the team from a sure first-plaee finish to third out of four teams in the standings. Over the fall break, the team will compete in the Halloween Regatta at Cincinnati. Additionally, the club will be training on Lake Michigan for the National Sloop Championships, to be held at Annapolis. 
The team qualified for the nationals in these large-keeled boats earlier this season with a second-place finish at the Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association sloop champi­onships at the Detroit Yacht Club. The Notre Dame Rugby Club faced the Kalamazoo Men's Club on Saturday, and was defeated, 38-19. The more experienced, bigger Kalamazoo players wore down the Irish in the 80-rninute match. Notre Dame trailed by only three at halftime, but was simply outmanned after that point, as the Kalamazoo team was able to put together several scores late in the game. This weekend, the Irish will face a new challenge as the Notre Dame Old Boys come back to South Bend to take on the youngsters. The Old Boys are a conglomeration of former Irish rugby players, convening on South Bend this weekend for the Irish-Miami Hurricanes football game. Last year, the Old Boys. many of whom still play organized rugby, defeated 
the Irish. 
... 
Thursday, October 18, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team rallies to beat Indianapolis 
By EILEEN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Division II school Indianapolis in a nail-biting match, 15-13, 12-15, 13-15, 15­8, 15-11 on Tuesday. It was the last home game of the season for Saint Mary's, who begins a five-game road trip to Boston over midsemester break. 
The Belles were down two games to one but came back strong to win the final two games. In the third game, Saint Mary' jumped out to a 12-5 lead before falling, 13-15. 
"It goes back to the inconsis­tent style of play we've been trying to work through," said Saint Mary's head coach Sue Medley, "but in the games where we started out on a bad streak, we didn't let them (the Greyhounds) run on it." 
The Belles realized that they needed to work hard to win the next two games. In the fourth game, they gained a 5-0 lead on their way to a 15-8 win over the Greyhounds. 
In the last game· of the match, Saint Mary's seemed to have lost its concentration early in the game, falling behind 2-7. However, the Belles came back, playing as a team to tie the score, 8-8. In the forty minute see-saw battle, Saint Mary's came out victorious 15-11. 
"We did a good job coming 
senior co-captain Katy Killilea. "We pulled together as a team. The bench was awesome, and we proved we can do it. It was a great way to end four years of I volleyball at Saint Mary's." t 
During the game, sophomore Karen Lorton came up with 23 kills, 28 digs, four solo blocks and three service aces. Katy • t 
Killilea executed 20 kills and 23 , digs, and freshman Ann Jagodzinski contributed 10 kills and two solo blocks. I 
"Most importantly," stated I 
coach Medley, "we never gave up, we never quit. I think we're understanding the difference j 
• 
"The last home game was very exciting," said senior co-captain ~ Michelle Sibliski. ''I'm extremely happy we won. It was a great * 
** 
game because we worked as a 
:
team. It's hard to believe four years have gone by. The team 
* 
made the last game very special." !
* 
* 
"Basically, we're taking the 
:
opportunity to just play ball," said Medley. "Eastern * Connecticut State is one of the * best Division II programs in the 
* 
country. We only need to play : up to our ability and consis­!
*
tently and we will do well." 
SfEAKS ~~· 
:.t ,·
PRIME RIB ..( I SEAFOOD ~~~&se 
HRLSTNJRA,"'I 
* 
* 
:
* 
* 
: 
:* 
* 
* 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and 
i !* 
Sunday Brunch * 100 Center-Mishawaka 
* 
:
219-259-9925 

Off-Campus qualifies for Interhall playoffs 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 

The interhall playoff picture cleared slightly last night as Off-Campus clinched a berth and Keenan was eliminated. 
ALUMNI 6 KEENAN 0 

The two defenses shined in this contest played. with in a 25 mph south wind. The game's only score was set up when at the Knight 33, Maier was flushed from the pocket and sacked from behind by Chris Jafford. The ball was knocked free, and Brendan Fitzpatrick recovered with 49 seconds left. 
Jim Passinault then led the no-huddle offense to perfection, finding Pete Parten for 22 yards and Caretta for nine more. After two incom­pletions, with no time left, Passinault found Parten in the middle of the end zone for the touchdown 
"On that last drive, I was thinking we had to suck it up and play like champions," said Parten. "We showed lots of composure out there." 
OFF-CAMPUS 22 DILLON 0 
The Off-Campus defense, led by Antoine Lark and John Schoen, rose to the occasion, holding Dillon to two first downs and nine total yards while the Crime rolled up 12 first downs and 202 yards on the ground. Phil Coury gained 90 yards on 15 runs and Brian Doherty 83 yards. 
"The key to any halfback's success is his line, and our line really did a number on them tonight," said Coury. 
The Crime scored just before halftime when Bob Allard lofted a pass over two Big Red defenders to Chuck Moser in the end zone from the 11. Off­Campus broke it open by dri­ving 65 yards to start the half, capping the drive on Allard's one-yard sneak. The Crime's final touchdown came on its next possession on a Doherty 34-yard run. 
"The line really gave me a lot of time to pass," said Allard (6­15, 57 yds, 1 int, 1 td). "I wasn't on tonight ... but [my receiving corps] made up for it with spectacular catches." 
SORIN 20 CARROLL 2 
The Otters closed an unde­feated season by overcoming an inspired Vermin attack. After a scoreless first quarter, Kevin Kramer found Vic Lombardi on a corner route with 5:20 in the second from 31 yards out. The TD was set up by a key fourth-down catch by Sean Ryan. 
Sorin then took the second­half kickoff and scored on a three yard counter run by Ryan keyed by a Kramer-to­Lombardi 62-yard hook-up. 
"I think our offense hit fifth gear tonight," said Lombardi. "We're definitely going into the playoffs on a high note." 
Sorin's last score came when Kramer hit Tim O'Shaughnessy, who broke two tackles and dove into the end zone. Carroll's points came on a safety when Chris Estes was tackled in the end zone by a host of Vermin. 
back and not giving up," said·~-._-.....-....-...............-....-....-............-.....-.....-.... 
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ...... ~ 
6 ~~y .ft 6p4-P""' L.
_r-b ~ Y ~ ~\....II'\ ~ 
FULL SERVICE FLORIST 
Balloon Plants Bouquets Bouquets Corsages Arrangements Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil~ 
Miami 
continued from page 16 

Amy from Farley and six of her friends pooled their tickets in order to get home early and to make some needed money. She's received offers for their student tickets ranging from $30-$100 apiece, with the typical caller offering $50. 
''I'm hoping that other ticket sellers won't back down on their prices," says Amy, "because if they sell out, they'll ruin it for the rest of us who want to make a lot of money." 
For every seller, though, there has to be a buyer. Lloyd, an off­campus senior, noted that the phone has been ringing off the hook in response to his ad to buy a student ticket. Most callers are asking $50, al­though a few have been in the $75-$100 range. 
None of this should be any surprise to Bubba Cunning­ham, the Notre Dame ticket manager. His office fielded737 calls Tuesday, some for local concerts, but the majority of callers asking for tickets for the NO-Miami game. 
One person thought the per­sonal touch might get Bubba to send tickets. He wrote a letter claiming to be the biggest fan in Amsterdam, Ohio. As proof, he offered photos of his licens11 plate ("ROSARY"), the roof of his car sporting a replica of the Golden Dome, and his silo, complete with golden dome. It wasn't enough; he didn't receive tickets. 
Shane Hitzeman and Matt Helminiak have run an ad for Miami tickets for several days for friends from Boston College. Tickets selling for as high as $125 last week now are $50. "The price is dropping because people were holding out hopin demand would go up, and i just didn't happen," said Matt. 
Another Grace resident is in the market "to bring buyer and sellers together in friendly manner." He's fin din also that the market ha. collapsed recently. His ad als asks for GA's, but these are to hard to come by at the moment. 
"I expect the market to im prove greatly this weekend al the pep rally and before gam time," he said. "Hopefully, GA' will be more available with th influx of alumni." 
Not everyone, however, be lieves in the almighty power o the dollar. 
"There's no way I'd sell m Miami ticket," said senior Chri Sullivan. "No way I'd jeopardiz missing this, or any, game." 
"There's no way I'm going t miss the Miami game," said ju nior Katherine McCarthy. "It' dPfioitelv more imoortant tha 
gettm home early.._"___.., 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI :z:
"' 
-

~~~R IT... t~'" 
=, 
·r~'I'll CLASS' 

1 CLASS OF '94 • MONDAY • OG 15 1 
CLASS OF '93 • TUESDAY • OG 16 CLASS OF '92 • WEDNESDAY • OG 17 CLASS OF '91 • THURSDAY • OG 18 
All CLASSES • FRIDAY • OG 19
p-----------------------. ~.
l1 0°/o OFF CASH AND CARR'fl ~ 1 
EVERYONE • SATURDAY • 00 20
I with SMC or ND student ID 1 ~ 1 
'lhe <ZOMings Jllall I
------------------------~ ~ 
Soutb of Unlve:mlty Park Jllall ~ I Mishawaka.'" 46545 5901 Grape Rd 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO DESK, 
277-1291 · 1 1 
BOOKSTORE, THE PRO SHOP, AND GSU OFFICE 
between trying and succeeding ............................................................................................................~ insetting our goals." --------~-----------------------.... 
~·········································································~ 
MUSICIAN REGISTER i * 
The musician register is a list of student musicians who want to play in bands or need musicians for already established * bands. If there are any questions please call Diana Dow at x3352 or at the Student Union Board Office 239-7757. ! 
BASSISTS  DRUMS  
Joe Cannon  x2008  cross-list guitar  Kevin Jones  x3498  
John Fletcher  x3384  cross-list vocals  Bill Rhomberg  x4586  
Ellen Lanser  x4888  
Greg Olson  234-1 048  cross-list guitar  KEYBOARDS  
Dan Phillips  x1640  Michelle Beauchesne  277-4322  
Weazel  x1542  
GUITAR  VOCALS  
Joe Cannon  x2008  cross-list bassist  Michelle Beauchesne  277-4322  
Sean Fitzpatrick  x1588  Bob Eberhardt  x1835  
Glen Fogarty  x3064  cross-list vocals  John Fletcher  x3384  
Kristen Harknett  x4888  cross-list vocals  Glenn Fogarty  x3064  
Jason Lyons  x1598  Kristen Harknett  x4888  
Don McGahn  x3072  Alison Meriaux  x3736  
Greg Olson  234-1048  cross-list bassist  Weazel  x1542  
Jason Winslade  287-8625  
MISCELLANEOUS  

*Joe Cannon and Bob Eberhardt need a drummer who is interested in punk, funk, hardcore and industrial. 
~~ 
* 
* 
!
* 

: cross-list vocals * cross-list vocals * 
* 

: cross-list keyboards * plays guitar a bit !' 
cross-list bass ; cross-list guitar * cross-list guitar !' 
; cross-list keyboards * 
* !* 
* 
* 
* 

*Jason Winslade needs a guitarist who is interested in punk, funk, industrial, progressive and experimental. Call287-8675.  :*  
*  
*Jason Hoida is looking for a singer who is into the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Bad Brains. Call x1845.  :  

._________............................................................................... 

-~­

page 15 The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1990 
CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 




OPEN FORUM  
THIS AFfERNOON  
at 12:15PM  
Fieldhouse Mall  
Come one, Come all!!  STUDENT UNION BOARD  

Thursday 
4:15p.m. Lecture, "Hethinking Culture: New Directions in Film Studies," Professor Thomas Schatz, University of Texas at Austin. ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Edueation. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "Career Planning," LAND-Life after Notre Damn Series, James Hunt, BDS Company. Hesburgh 
Library  Auditorium.  Sponsored  by  Student  Alumni  
Helations Group.  
7:30  p.m.  Lecture,  "Alice  Aycock  Recent  Work."  

Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Department of Art, the Snite Museum and the Alice Tully Endowment of the Arts. 
MENUS 
Top Hound of Beef Baked Sole w/ Hice Dressing Stuffed Shells 

Across 11 Norwegian river 12 Of hearing 
.:,;..j.:,:+:..+==-l 13 Churchyard's -gate 15 Biblical book 21 Simmer down 23Wild goat c:+::::-+:-±t-1 25 Billiard shot 26 Very simple animal 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
I T\-IIN\'-OJR

~£.5, I)() 'i0\1 TI-ll~¥-OJR 
KI\Ct-\'3 SNOW

t'IORAl\T'i IS DE.HI'lE.D 8'( 
~11~:rs 11'-l ()IJR

OOR ~Ci1()t{S, OR B'i ~~~~TS 
IN ()JR 1\E,._\1-iS? ,..., _ __.....,.,. 
11£.M~.\5. 
I RESENT 
11-\AT! 
27 Of a part of the lungs 
29Aaise­(behave destructively) 
31 Page or LuPone 32 Argus-eyed 33--slipper 
(orchid) 35 Actor in 65 Across 39--Gay, W.W. 
II bomber 40 Clinker 42 A wife of Jacob 
SPELUNKER 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢: each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
ACROSS 

1 "--Carlotta," 
T. A. Daly poem 4Workswith rattan 
9 Line winder 14 Constant 16 Spit<Jful 17 "-Dundee," 
1986 movie 18 Like many rings 
or watches 19 Reeve role 20 Actor in 56 

Across 22 A cube's sextet 24 Curmudgeon's 
cry 25 Golfer Peete 28 Woman's wide, 
lacy collar 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
30 Gift for some Scorpios 
34 Soap plant 36 Boozer 37Wingding 
38 Put in a new carton 41 Tardy 43 City in Scotland 44 The real issue 46 What some burglars gain 47 Playwright Connelly 48 Port on the Black Sea 51 "-Magic," Doris Day hit 52 Actor Linden 54 Of both kinds: Comb. form s6"The-," 1981 movie 


60"­Enchanted Evening" 
64"-·­
Romance" 
65"The­People," 1959 movie 
67 Abdui-Jabbar 
was one 68 Jet design 69 Dice throws 70 A strong point 71 Mich. locks, for 
short 
DOWN 
1 Rocker Jagger 2 Concerning 3 Bath's county 4---Magnon s---camp 6 Carpenter, 
often 7 Gets one's help a Jugged hare, 
e.g. 9 Milan's La-­Opera House 
45 Parish officers 49Whiffs 50 Tinker Bell, e.g. 53 Natives of the 
U.S.A. ss "Was it a cat 
-?'' 

56 Shaker contents 
57 Almost out of sight sa Much the same as 59 It's nothing to Juan 
61 Name in lifts 
62 Kind of rail 
63 Therefore 
66 Thug's heater 


~· 
Sports 
Thursday, October 18, 1990 
Reds enjoy 2-0 Series lead after come-from-behind victory over A's 
Pacers ride second-half spurt to beat Mavericks 

APF'rotl Cincinnati Reds right fielder Paul O'Neill watches his game-winning double to left field in the second game of the National League Championship series against Pittsburgh. 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Lose Game 1? No problem. But lose the first two games of the World Series, and even the Oakland Athletics consider themselves in a bit of a spot. Mter the Cincinnati Reds won 5-4 in 10 innings on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the World Series, the concept of losing dawned on the /\s for the first time. 
"What are you going to do?" third baseman Carney Lansford said. "You're either going to crawl in a hole and let them win or you stay and fight it O)lt. 
"We're the defending world champions. I'm not going to give anybody anything. If I'm going to go down I'm going to go down fighting." 
Up and down the Oakland locker room after Game 1, player after player declared the /\s alive and well on their 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The Indianapolis Pacers cruised to a 111-91 victory over the Dallas Mavericks after opening the second half with a 27-8 run which ran them out to a 30-point lead in an NBA exibition game Wednesday night at the Joyce ACC. 
Forward Chuck Person led the way for the Pacers with 24 points, while Reggie Miller added 17 and Rick Smits chipped in 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Mavericks, playing with­out injured stars Rolando Blackman (sore right knee) and Alex English (pulled ham­string), were led by center Roy Tarpley, who scored 14 points andadded 13rebounds. 
Indianapolis went with its starters for much of the game while Dallas opted to give some of its substitutes a chance to play in the absence of Blackman and English. The Pacers' starters averaged 28 minutes apiece, compared to 
Students flood market with Miami tickets 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
Eighty-five dollars was the magic figure for LuAnn, a freshman in Knott, to sell her Miami ticket. She wanted to get back to Pittsburgh in time to catch her friends before they went back to school. It took seven callers responding to her ad before finding her price. 
''I'm going to throw a party Saturday afternoon with my friends to watch the game," LuAnn said in defense. "I trea­sure my friendships back home...and I miss them." 
see MIAMI I page 14 

21 1/2 minutes for the 
Mavericks. 

"For them (Dallas), this was a game to see what different players could do, since they didn't have those guys," said Smits. "They didn't put the emphasis on winning tonight." 
The Pacers, who did put more emphasis on winning, turned the tempo up a notch in the second half. Point guard Vern Fleming took advantage of numerous Dallas defensive lapses to drive the middle and convert easy layups and dish to Miller. 
Indianapolis took control of the game in the early going and never let Dallas get back in the game. The Pacers scored the first six points of the game, and increased their lead to 31-23 at halftime. By halftime it was 58-45, and then Indianapolis put the game away with the early second-half explosion. 
Still, the Pacers weren't en­tirely pleased with their per­formance. 
"Our only weakness seemed to be our rebounding. That was a definite weakness," Smits said, "but we still have got a bunch of (exhibition) . 
games left and we will just have to progress step by step." 
"The game turned out pretty good, we played excellent indi­vidual and team defense," Person said. "We ran the court really well, but we still gave up too many second shots." 
For Dallas, Randy White added 12 points and Lafayette Lever, acquired from Denver in the off-season, pitched in 11 to go with four assists. But the biggest cheer from the 2,362 fans at the JACC went up when Indiana graduate Steve Alford, who led the Hoosiers to a National Championship in 1986 and the United States Olympic team to a gold medal in 1984, scored his first basket. Alford fmished with six points for the Mavericks. 
Still, the game belonged to the Pacers, and Person credits his team's success to an un­selfishness which has surfaced this preseason. 
"Each guy has to be willing to pass the ball to the other guy," Person said. "Last year each guy was trying to make himself look better, but this year we're concentrating on making the other guy look better." 

TheObserver I Andrf!N McCloskey Tickets for Saturday's Notre Dame-Miami game sold for as much as $200 last week but plummeted to $50 the past several days. 
way to defending their World 
Series title. It was an unruffled 
room. Mter Game 2, the /\s looked a little more disbelieving, a little 
more shocked. They knew they had lost a game they could 
have won. 

They had been unable to de­liver an early knockout, and they allowed the Reds to hang around long enough to win on points. 
"We played better ball tonight than we did last night," Lansford said. "We pushed and pushed and pushed and we just couldn't get that big hit · late in the game, and they did." 1\velve of the first 23 A's to bat Wednesday night reached safely, and Oakland scored four times. But the other seven stranded runners represented wasted opportunities. 
The story of Game 2 was ac­tually the same story as Game 1, in which Oakland stranded 
APF'rotl Indiana Pacer forward Chuck Person drives to the basket against the Orlando Magic in an NBA exhibition game Sunday night. Person scored 24 points in the Pacers' 111-91 win over Dallas last night. 
Sailors cop two thirds 
With the weather cooling off, many club teams at Notre Dame are heating up. 
The Sailing Club sent teams to two regattas this weekend and brought home two third-place trophies. 
The Irish sent a team to Columbus, Ohio for the Ohio State Fall Regatta. In the A division, the boat was skippered by freshman Michael Kane, with Laura Rolando deAgular Scully serving as crew. Patti Losinske Club Corner skippered the B boat, and Susie Tobin was the crew. Overall, the team finished third out of 18 boats. 

"I was pleased," said Kane. "I've done offshore sailing for years, but it's taken a while to get used to lake sailing." At the Lake Forest Regatta on Lake Michigan, the Irish suffered a bad break which cost them first place. The A boat, skippered by senior sailing aficionado Watts Hudgens, suffered a freak capsize while leading its race. "We were in first place by a good bit when we capsized," said 
see CLUBS I page 13 11, going 0-for-9 with runners in scoring position. 
This time the A's stranded two runners in the first, third and fourth innings. In the second, seventh and eighth, they stranded another runner each time. 
"As far as the offense is con­cerned, we got it going early today, but then all of a sudden nothing happened," first base­man Mark McGwire said. "That's not us. That's not the Oakland A's. 
"We've got to score in more than a couple of innings in a game and take the pressure off our pitching staff and keep them from having to shut them out the rest of the way. I mean that's tough to do." 
Nothing went right in Game 1, so it was easy to shrug off that one. 
see SERIES I page 13 




