
VOL. XXIII NO. 70 THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · 
Computer 'bugs' delay fall grades 
By KELLEY TUTHILL "It wasn't until the first week Assistant News Editor of January that we could work 
on all of them (the grades)." 

Many Notre Dame students In addition, grades from two 
did not receive their fall courses were not turned in 
smnester grades before they re­until early this week, and 
turned to school mainly be­grades from overseas were 
cause of computer problems at also late, she said. 
the Office of the Registrar. Another problem, explained 
Notre Dame recently Spaulding, was that the grades 
switched from an International were run through computer 
Business Machine (IBM) system systems twice. First the Regis­
to a Hewlett-Packard system, trar's office ran the grade list 
according to Lora Spaulding, through the new Hewlett­
associate registrar. As with Packard system. Then the 
any new computer program, grades were run through the 
there arc "bugs" that must be IBM program so the Regis­
detected, she said. trar's office could check the 
One problem that caused de­new program against the old, 
lays at the Registrar was that said Spaulding. 
the last day to turn in grades When the Registrar checked 
was December 28, later than the grades run through the 
usual, according to Spaulding. Hewlett-Packard, Spaulding 
She said that some grades were said that several grades were 
turrwd in on the 29th, while 
others arrived even later. see GRADES I page 8 
Kremlin attempts to halt fighting 
MOSCOW lAP)-The Kremlin in outrageous attacks has and the current troubles were 
Wednesday told the thousands made the situation unbear­sparked by its demand in commissioned by the Navy 
of soldiers it sent to the Cauca­able,'" and the soldiers now February 1988 to be annexed and designated a naval avia­
sus to shoot if need be to halt were permitted to use their by Armenia. It has about tor in 1976. He was assigned 
bands of Azf~rbaijanis and Ar­weapons in accordance with 160,000 people. to the carrier John F. 
menians fighting each other in military rules and Soviet law. Iran's spiritual leader, Aya­Kennedy from 1977 to 1980, 
hills around the disputed terri­Four burned bodies were tollah Ali Khamenei, said according to Phil Mintz, 
tory of Nagorno-Karabakh. found in Baku, the capital of Wednesday that Islamic fervor writer for Newsday in Long 
Thousands of Armenian Azerbaijan, the official news was behind events in Soviet Island. 
refugees poured from the agency Tass said Wednesday. Azerbaijan, and warned Wetherbee was selected by 
southern republic of Azerbai­Eighteen Armenian residents Moscow not to deal harshly the National Aeronautics 
jan. many beaten or chased were injured in Azerbaijan the with the Shiite Moslem upsurge, and Space Administration 
from their homes by angry past 24 hours. Tehran radio reported. (NASA} as an astronaut 
mobs. Some blamed the attacks The violence erupted Saturday The broadcast, monitored in candidate in 1984. He com· 
on Azerbaijanis who earlier fled with anti-Armenian riots in Cyprus, quoted Khamenei as pleted the one-year training 
ethnic violence in Armenia. Baku. Fighting rapidly spread saying "anyone who thinks or and evaluation program in 
The death toll rose to 58, to Nagorno-Karabakh and pretends that the motives be­1985, qualifying him for as­
mostly Armenians, and the nearby areas of Azerbaijan, hind these movements are eth­signment as a pilot on future 
number of injured to 169 in five with the belligerents using heli­nic or nationalistic is making a space shuttle flight crews. 
days of civil warfare, an Inte­copters, armored vehicles, ma­big mistake. These sentiments A native of New York 
rior Ministry official said. chine guns and other arms are Islamic, and Soviet leaders state, Wetherbee now lives in 
The evening TV news show seized from government arse­should face this fact with real­Hous~on with his wife and 
"Vremya" ran a statement nals or offered by compatriots. ism." two children, according to 
from the KGB and the interior It was the worst fighting be­The Kremlin has empowered Scott. 
and defense ministries, which tween mainly Moslem Azerbai­local officials to ban demon­Accompanying Wetherbee 
control troops in the area, that janis and mostly Christian Ar­strations and strikes, impose on the mission is the Laetare 
said: menians since their decades-old curfews, censor the media, con­medal awarded by Notre 
"Risking their lives, they have feud over Nagorno-Karabakh fiscate weapons, disband unof­Dame to Albert Zahm, a 
so far refrained from using erupted in violence two years ficial organizations and detain professor of mathematics a 
arms against criminals to pre­ago. The enclave, populated people for up to 30 days. Inte-century ago at Notre Dame. 
vent bloodshed. mainly by Armenians, has been 
see SHUnt.E I page 8

"However. a sharp increase ruled by Azerbaijan since 19n see SOVIET I page 8 



Dorr Road to close next week until April due to construction 
By MONICA YANT to begin in May. either the University Club or the News Writer The closing will not affect ac­Center for Continuing Educa­cess to the bus shelter, the tion drives. 
Dorr Road between Notre Morris lnn, the Center for Con­The Notre Dame Post Office Dame Avenue and Old Juniper tinuing Education, Main Gate, parking lot and drive-through Road, opposite the Snite Mu­or the University Club. will remain open during the seum of Art, will be closed to Dorr will remain open be­first stage of construction, but through traffic from Monday, tween the Snite Museum and will be closed later, as the pro­January 22 until early April, Juniper Road. ject pro~resses. said Dennis Moore, associate Access to Notre Dame park­director of Public Relations and ing lots Bl, Cl, and D1 will be A small parking lot located Information. from Notre Dame Avenue and behind the University Club, 
The road will be closed for Old Juniper Road. Traffic from which is a portion of Bl, will the construction of under­Juniper Road should enter now be reserved solely for fac­ground utilities to the site of these lots by traveling west on ulty and staff, said Phil John­the new Edward J. DeBartolo Dorr to Old Juniper, then south son, assistant director of Notre Classroom Building south of to the specific lot. Dame Security. The lot was Dorr, according to Donald Traffic from Notre Dame Av­formerly divided by a median Dedrick, director of physical enue should use the University which separated faculty and plant. Construction of the Club drive to enter lost Cl and staff parking from student classroom building is scheduled D1. Lot B 1 can be enteyed from parking.
The Observer I Laura Stanton 

The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1990
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Thursday, January 18. 
50 Yesterday's high: 54 Yesterday's low: 50 Nation's high: 86 (McAllen, Texas) Nation's low: 17 (International Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: Partial clearing and cooler today Highs in the lower 40s. Mostly clear and colder tonight. Lows from the lower to middle 20s. Mostly sunny and colder Friday. Highs from the lower to middle 30s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Assoc1ated Press Graph1csNet 
Elephants turn Orange Bowl into circus 
The Orange Bowl has come and gone, and despite our vic­tory over Colorado, Miami garnered the national champi­onship. There were a lot of memorable 
moments that came 
Robyn Simmons 
out of New Year's 
(a.k.a. College Bowl) Assistant Day 1990, and I'll ...:A....:.c~c~e::.:.n.!!t....:E=.:d:::.:i!.::to::.:.r ___ leave the sports talk to the experts. 
What sticks in my mind about the Orange Bowl -pardon me, the Federal Express Orange Bowl-is "A Twist of Orange," one of the most ridiculous halftime shows I've ever seen. 
I suppose elaborate halftime shows are to be expected now, and perhaps I haven't watched enough bowl games to become immune to the glitz of prime-time college football, but elephants doing headstands on a football field is a bit much. 
I wasn't in Miami for the Orange Bowl, so I watched it on TV. NBC devoted a few minutes to the Notre Dame and Colorado marching bands. most of which was inter­rupted by eommcrcials and sports commen­tators. The network did a great job, how­ever, of covering "A Twist of Orange," featuring Chubby Checker, dancing elephants, and Paul Williams in a leather jacket. (Boy, was he a hot-looking speci­men.) 
The medley of songs ranged from the ex­pected to the bizarre. Some songs are not meant to be performed at a halftime show. and Em1~rson, Lake and Palmer's "Karn Evil #9" is one of them. I knew we were in trouble when the show opened with 
"Weleome back my friends to the show that rwv1~r ends, we're so glad you could attend... " 
It seems the Orange Bowl officials, net­work nxecutives, or whoever comes up with these halftime productions believes the show draws big ratings. Viewers didn't tune in to hear Paul Williams sing or see circus elephants prance across the field; they tuned in to watch #1 Colorado play #4 Notre Damn. The emphasis is on the two sdwols during the game, and that's where it should be at halftime. 
Instead of showing celebrities sing and dance (and massacre classic rock tunes) the networks might focus on the schools' marching bands. During the season. the rwtworks cut away from the game at half­time to giw updates on other college games, so viewers usually don't see the bands perform. 
If the networks are adamant about tele­vising the halftime show during bowl games, why don't they showcase the univer­sity bands that have been working so hard all year? 
If football players represent their schools during the game, why can't the bands rep­resent their schools during halftime? I'd rather watch any college band do "Louie, Louie" at halftime than see those dancing elephants again. 


WORLD 

Four opposition activists were arrested for Chad and the Lockheed Aircraft Corp. are ne­"aggression, offenses and lack of respect" said President gotiating for the release of three U.S. technicians de­Daniel Ortega. An opposition candidate said police used tained nearly two weeks ago for destroying a mainte­tear gas Tuesday night to break up the demonstration nance manual. Irving Thrash, Marvin Gambill and Ernest that occurred in Granada, Nicaragua. Luis Sanchez San­Ruse, all from the Atlanta area, were detained Jan. 5 cho, a spokesman for the United National Opposition after they completed a year of training Chadians to ser­coalition, accused police of attacking a small rally of vice a Lockheed C-130 transport plane, company offieials about 1,000 UNO demonstrators, but conceded they had said. The aircraft, built in Marietta, Ga .. near Atlanta, no permission to stage it. was the first of several the government of President 
Ilissene Habre bought for his air force. 
NATIONAL 

Vice President Dan Quayle will visit Panama, Prison officials made last-minute preparations Honduras and Jamaica this month, aides said Wednesday, Wednesday to carry out convicted Missouri killer Gerald but one official said privately that other countries feeling Smith's request to be executed by lethal injection for the resentment about the U.S. invasion of Panama were dis­1980 slaying of his girlfriend.Death-penalty opponents couraging Quayle visits at this time. Quayle himself said made a last-ditch effort to save Smith's life by filing a that "diplomatic sensitivities" have held up scheduling his motion Wednesday afternoon with the U.S. Supreme trip to Central and South America. But he denied any lin­Court. The court voted 7-2 to reject the appeal by the Mis­gering "deep resentment" among Latin leaders after souri Capital Punishment Resource Center in Kansas President Bush's Dec. 20 invasion of Panama. "No coun­City.It would be Missouri's second execution since 1965 try has said, 'We don't want the vice president, period,"' and the 121 st nationwide since the U.S. Supreme Court he told a luncheon gathering of the Hoover Institution. allowed states to restore the death penalty in 1976. 
The State Department took a swipe Wednesday at Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and said no U.S. The Who, Simon and Garfunkel, The Four Tops, money could be used to assist Jewish settlers on the West four other rock 'n' roll acts, and two songwriting teams Bank and in Gaza. Shamir came under fire for declaring were inducted into the Hock and Holl Hall of Fame Israel must hold on to the land to accommodate a boom­Wednesday in New York. In addition to the songwriting ing influx of Soviet Jews. "Our position is clear," the U.S. team of Gerry Goffin and Carole King, whose first hit was official said, reading from a statement. "We do not think "Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow" by the Shirelles, rock that building settlements or putting even more settlers in classics ranging from the Four Tops to the Kinks were the territories promotes the cause of peace." honored. 
OF INTEREST WVFI shift picks will be tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the 
r---------------------------­


The Observer 
P 0 Box 0 NotrP. fJilmP. lndlilll<l 4GS5G 
1219)·239·7471 
Today's Staff: 
News Business Janice O"Leary Liz Panzica Sara Marley Joe Zadrozny
Accent Joe Moody Lauren Deluca
Shonda Wilson Monica Yant 
Terri Walsh 
Viewpoint Katie Foster
Production Systems 
Greg Tice Molly Schwartz Andy Morrow Dan Towers 
Sports 
Ken Tysiac 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat10n penods. The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduCtion 
nghls are reserved 

Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Source: AP 
INDIANA 

A Vietnam veteran who lost his ability to speak when he suffered a stroke seven years ago is among 30 contestants competing in a special Hoosier Lottery program Friday in Evansville. Michael Graham, 40, may make his choices by using paper and pencil in vying for a chance at the $1 million top prize. The former construction worker has collected disability since two strokes four years apart left him mute and walking with a limp, and able to communicate only with a number and letter board. 
Hoosier Lottery profits will not be used for capital improvements at the local level. The state Senate voted against a proposed bill Wednesday which would have set aside 25 percent of the profits for such measures, instead opting to sup­port the fledgling Build Indiana Fund, which will use lottery projects to build new buildings, bridges and roads at all levels of government. 
ALMANAC 

On January 18: e In 1788: The first English settlers arrived in Austrailia's Botany Bay to establish a penal 
colony. e In 1912: English explorer Hobert Scott and his expedition reached the South Pole, only to discover that Roald Amundsen had beaten them there. Scott and his party died during the return trip. e In 1919: The World War I peace Congress opened in Ver­sailles, France. e In 1943: During World War II the Soviets announced they had broken the long Nazi siege 
of Leningrad. 
MARKET UPDATE 
NYSE Index 
186.86  {71.51  
S&P Composite  
387.99  {7 3.35  

Dow Jones Industrials 

2659.13 {733.49 
Precious Metals Gold {t $1.50 to $4413.70/ oz. Silver'\} 2.7¢ to $5.308 I oz. 


Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 3 
$12 mil. in gifts adds business complex to new quad 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Assistant News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame has received $12 million in gifts which will be u!fed to under­write the construction of a new complex to house the College of Business Administration. 
The complex, to be located on the new DeBartolo quadrangle, will be underwritten by gifts from University Trustee Donald Kelly, 1959 alumnus Vincent Naimoli and an anonymous donor. 
"We accept these major con­tributions to the future of busi­ness scholarship at Notre Dame with gratitude and antic­ipation," said University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy in a press release. "In the area of business ethics particularly, we look forward to further en­
DART-ing dilemmas 
hancing the strength of our business programs," he said. 
John Keane, Gillen dean of the College of Business Admin­istration, called the announce­ment "wonderful news. We're grateful to all; the donors, the administration and everyone who helped make the complex a reality." 
"This new complex will help to ensure the continued excel­lence of the College's under­graduate program and, at the same time, will foster its growth at the graduate level," said University Provost Ti­mothy O'Meara in the press re­lease. 
The new complex is expected to provide some 80,000 square feet of floor space for class­rooms, offices and program centers, as well as library, computer and research facili­ties, said Keane in the press re­lease. 

The anchor building of the complex will be underwritten by a $6 million gift from Kelly and will house the College's faculty and administration. Gifts of $3 million each from Naimoli and the anonymous donor will un­derwrite two pavilions housing the College's research center and its graduate studies and seminar rooms. 
According to O'Meara, the new complex is expected to be completed in mid-1993. The College is currently housed in Hurley Hall of Business Admin­istration, completed in 1932, and Hayes-Healy Center, com­pleted in 1968. 
According to Keane, the new business complex will house all aspects of the College "except for the undergraduates" who will use the Edward J. DeBar­tolo Classroom facility, part of the original gift that estab­lished the quadrangle. 

Kelly, a university trustee since 1987, is president and chief executive officer of D.P. Kelly & Associates, L. P. He was a member of the College of Business Administration Advi­sory Council from 1976 until 1988 and served as chairman of the University's Sorin Soci­ety, an organization of Notre Dame benefactors, from 1981 until1984. 
Naimoli is chairman of the board, president and chief ex­ecutive officer of Anchor indus­tries. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1959 with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and has been a member of the College of Busi­ness Administration Advisery Council since 1987. 
The College currently has an enrollment of 2,109 students in its undergraduate, MBA and MSA programs, making it the second largest academic unit at Notre Dame, exceeded in size by the College of Arts and Let­ters. 
Over the past decade, under­graduate enrollment in Busi­ness Administration has almost doubled, the College's faculty has grown from 60 to 1 00 members, and four new centers of scholarship have been estab­lished: the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Busi­ness, the Center for Business Research, the Center for re­search in Banking and the Cen­ter for International Develop­ment. 

Indiana house to vote today on Gary casino gambling 
Advocates of the casino bill

Ed Foss makes adjustments to his schedule on the DART terminal. The new system of scheduling, via 
told the 26-member committee
DART, is designed to not only ease the course selection process, but aid in dropping and adding 
that the measure offers Gary a
courses as well. 

unique chance to recover from urban blight and high unem­ployment that resulted from
SMC professor wins holography award 
layoffs in the steel industry. 
heap near Lake Michigan "into a mecca all can enjoy, but also into a significant economic de­velopment tool." 

"We have a chance for a new 
industry and a new Gary," he 
said. 
Citing the tough economic

Applications are now being accepted 
times in his city, he said, "We used to boast of-being Amer­ica's magic city. We used to

for the position of 
boast of having some of the finest neighborhoods in the en­



Editor-in-Chief 
is currently accepting applications 
1990-1991 
for the following paid positions: Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Anyone interested in applying must submit a resume and a 
Applicants for this 2-3 afternoon per week, paid 

personal statement of no more than five pages to Chris 
position should possess strong English skills. 

Donnelly. Further information is available from Chris Donnelly at The Observer. 
For further information, contact Dave Bruner at 239-5303 or 277-5843

Applications are due by 5 p.m., Friday, January 26, 1990. 

tire nation. 
"But now there is no neigh­borhood that doesn't bear the scars of urban blight and re­trenchment," said Barnes. 
Casino industry officials said they were sure casinos could flourish in Gary -provided that a state law is written in such a way that several busi­nesses in the gaming industry can band together to build huge hotels joined in a large com­plex. 
James Ritchie, a counsel for the Golden Nugget casino com­pany, painted a "picture of the Emerald City that may well be Gary some day." 
Representatives of Circus Cir­cus and Resorts International also spoke in favor of the bill, as did several elected officials and labor leaders from north­west Indiana. 
Allan Rachles, an accountant hired to do an economic analy­sis for the casino industry, said 26,000 to 36,000 jobs could be created if six to nine casinos were built in Gary. City resi­dents could hold 14,000 to 19,000 of those jobs, he said. 
Revenues in gaming, property and innkeeper taxes could range from $183 million to $228 million annually, he said. 
The proponents said the mea­sure also has adequate safe­guards to prevent the infiltra­tion of organized crime into casino operations. 
But opponents questioned that and other assertions made by casino advocates. 
"I think we've listened to a Roman orgy this morning," said Paul Oakes, an Indianapo­lis businessman and longtime gambling opponent. 
Oakes also cited poll results showing Hoosier citizens op­pose casinos. 
The Observer/L.A. Scott 

INDIANAPOLIS {AP) -A bill to legalize casino gambling in Gary faces a close vote in an Indiana House committee that heard two hours of debate on the measure Wednesday, the Democratic chairman of the panel said. 
Ways and Means Democratic Chairman B. Patrick Bauer of South Bend said a vote is likely Thursday on House Bill 1200, but only after members of his committee get a chance to sug­gest changes in the bill. 
"I think it's close," he said. "It depends on how willing they {the bill's sponsors) are to make changes." 
Special to The Observer 
Holographic artist Douglas Tyler. an assistant professor of art at Saint Mary's College, has been chosen as the first recipi­ent of the European Jlologra­phy Award, presented by a West German museum. 
The award was presented to Tyler on the occasion of the 1Oth anniversary of the Mu­seum fur Holographic & Neue Visuelle Medien in Pulheim, West Germany, on Nov.4. 
The award, which is dedicated exclusively to international holographers whose work represents a major contribution to the aesthetical development of the medium, is endowed with a 10,000 Deutsche Mark {approximately $5,500) grant, which is presented to the chosen artist. 

Tyler was seiected for the award by a five-member jury of European museum directors, academics and government cul­tural affairs directors. As part of the award ceremony, several pieces of Tyler's work were displayed at the Pulheim mu­seum. 
Tyler has exhibited his holo­graphic works extensively in Europe. 
Opponents of the bill said casino gambling would bring more crime to the city, which they claimed should look. at more traditional methods of economic development. 
Gary Mayor Thomas Barnes, careful to avoid using the word "casino" during his statement to the committee, portrayed casinos as part of an enter­tainment and tourist industry that could revive his city. 
The casinos could turn a slag 

.-----------------------­
------------------------~------­
The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1990
page 4 

Bush:Troops may remain in Six Dallas girls snatched from beds 
Panama during drug summit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush said Wednesday he still wants the rest of U.S. inva­sion troops withdrawn from Panama "as soon as possible," but he feels under no pwssure to get them out before next month's drug summit in Colombia. 
Bush. posing for pictures in thn Hose Garden with Gen. Maxwell Thurman, the com­mandnr of U.S. forces in Panama. congratulated Thur­man and his troops for "the outstanding job they did for our country." 
Bush denied that the United Statns was having diffkulties finding countries willing to host Viee Presidnnt Dan <)uayln on a fnnce-mending mission to the region. Quayle will visit Hon­duras, Panama and Jamaica .Jan. 27-29. 
Pnruvian President Alan Gar­da. perhaps the most outspo­ken eritie of the Dec. 20 U.S. invasion that toppled Manuel Antonio Noriega. has said he won't attend the Feb. 15 drug summit unless the U.S. invasion force is out of Panama before then. Garda plans to send a minister in his stead. 

The United States sent nearly 15,000 troops to Panama for the strike against Noriega and his Panamanian Defense Forces, more than doubling the 12,000 troops on permanent duty there to defend U.S. bases and the Panama CanaL 
"We want them out of there as soon as possible," Bush said. "It's my objective to get the troops out and get back to the levels before this military action." 
But he emphasized, "It has nothing to do with the summit in Cartagena at alL This is pru­dent, it is right.... I'm not driven by the summit." 
"I want to do what's right for Panama. I want to do what Panama wants," the pwsident told reporters. 
"It's Panama's show now." Bush said before going into a National Security Council meet­ing with Thurman and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to dis­cuss Panama and its needs. 
Bush said the new Panama­nian government of President Guillermo Endara "is strength­ening their democracy." 
DALLAS (AP) -Life in a quiet, residential section of the city isn't the same since a nocturnal intruder snatched six sleeping girls from their homes. 
Officers patrol on foot. homeowners use security systems even When they're home and parents and school officials grapple with protecting children without traumatizing them. 
Some parents tell of changing the pink drapes in their daughters' rooms to white to avoid tipping someone to the location of girls' rooms. 
Since September. six sleeping girls have been taken from their north Dallas homes in the middle of night. A man sexually assaulted three of them and tried to assault the other three, police say. 
Sometimes. he called them by name as he took them from their beds. 
The latest episode occurred a week ago. when an intruder carried an 8­year-old girl from her 
bedroom but dropped her outside the house, unharmed, after she screamed. 
Some neighborhood men have quit taking evening walks for fear people will suspect them. Other residents worry that someone will get shot acddentally as tensions rise. 
"The parents are really struggling with how to protect their children and at the same time keep from instilling fears in their children so that they can't sleep at night." said Lori J\1esserschmidt, who has coordinated counseling for families in the neighborhoods where the attacks occurred. 
More than 500 parents from the middle-to upper­class neighborhoods came to meetings Tuesday at two schools to talk about the attacks with school officials and police. 
In the exclusive Bent Tree West development where the latest attack occurred, the homeowners' association passed out fliers asking par­ents to take safety precautions: locking doors. watching their children, using security systems even when they're at home. 
"Our neighborhood knows each other, that's why it was so shocking," said Jane Hood, who lives in the development. "But I think everybody on our street is remembering to lock their doors." 
Police said Wednesday thny have no solid leads in the at­tacks. The victims, all elementary school-aw1 girls. haven't been able to give good descriptions, although all say the attacker was a white man with dark hair, police said. 
Investigators say some of the victims have been in heavily secured homes, complete with elaborate alarm systems and fences. But in at least the last attack, an unlocked patio door provided the intruder an easy way in. 

Dogs maul, kill elderly grandmother 
LOS ANGELES (AI') -The owner of two part-pit bull dogs that fatally injured his eldnrly grandmother in a half-hour at­tack wants the dogs destroyed, but authorities said Wednesday the animals' deaths must await an investigation. 
Marjee Lilly, 70, died Wednesday at County-USC Medical Center despite six hours of surgery that included tlw amputation of her left arm. 
"She had puncture wounds on most of her torso and all the llnsh had biHlll natnn off both arms from the wrist to the shoulder." police Lt. Alan Ker­stllin said Tuesdsay. The dogs gnawed on the woman for about :{0 minutes. 
The San Diego woman had been visiting her grandson, Clarence Hubbard. when the dogs attack11d Tunsday. 
Lilly. who remained conscious during the mauling, told police thn dogs attacked while she was trying to feed the 45-to 50-pound animals. 

Hubbard. 34, who found his 4-foot-11, 130-pound grand­mother on the lloor. said he's owned the 14-month-old pit bull terrier-boxer mixed breed dogs since th11y were puppies and they had never attacked anyone bdore. 
Hubbard told police he wantnd the dogs destroynd, but dty Department of Animal Con­trol Lt. Michael Burns said the dogs would remain in quaran­tinn at the North Central Ani­mal Care and Control Center. 
"Our investigation is far from bning complete,'' Burns said. "We arn going to hold the dogs for two masons: First. we don't know if they have bitten anyone else so we are holding thnm on a 10-day rabies quarantine, and second. we have to sen if thnrn is any kind of negligence." 
Because there are morn of them, G11rman shepherds are the nation's No. 1 biting dog. "But per capita. you will have greater injuries with pit bulls," Burns said. 

~~when Icall Mom,she either wants 
to talk art or football. 


Usually football?' 
Go ahead, call her up and let 
her know the score. 
A10-minute coast-to-coast call, 
dialed direct anytime, any day with 
Al&T, costs less than $3.00.' And 
with fast connections and immedi­
ate credit for wrong numbers, how 
can you miss? 
R)r more intiJrmation on AF&T Lung Dista11ce Seruice, and products like the AT&TCard, call 1 800 S2S-795S, Ext. 100. 
'Add applicahle ~axes and surcharges. 

ATs.T 

The right choice. 

~-------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 18, 1990 


Gibbons named to post of VP for University Relations 
Special to The Observer 
James Gibbons. director of special events and protocol at the University of Notre Dame, has been named an assistant vice president for University Helations. 
Gibbons. who will continue his role of directing special events at the University, joined Notre Dame's public relations staff in 1963 as an assistant to the late J. Arthur Haley. 
In 1969 he was appointed di­rector of special projects, and has continued to be the Univer­sity's liaison with its Board of Trustees and Advisory Councils. 
A native of Chicago, Gibbons graduated from Notre Dame in 1953 and returned to the Uni­vmsity in 1956 where he was assistant basketball and base­ball coach until he joined the public relations staff. 
Known to many as "Notre Dame's maitre d'," Gibbons re­ceived a Presidential citation in 1979 for outstanding service to the University. 
In 1988 he received the Notre Dame's Alumni Association's .lamPs Armstrong Award, which honors a University graduate and employee for dis­tinguished service. 
Dwayne Hicks has been pro­moted to assistant director, alumni clubs, of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Hicks. a 1985 Notre Dame graduate, has been with the Alumni Association staff since October 1988. He joins two other graduates, Richard Daly and Peter Pranica, as an assis­tant director. 
As a club representative, Hicks is responsible for liaison with more than 85 of the Asso­ciation's 220 clubs. 
He provides information, leadership, training, program development and maintains an open line of communication be­tween the University and these satellite clubs throughout the country. 
In addition to his work with alumni clubs, Hicks is the Asso­ciation's liaison with the black alumni of Notre Dame, orga­nized to act as a unifying force for black alumni and as a sup­port system for black students at Notre Dame. 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 


Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
ANNOUNCING 
A 


LECTURE 
Sponsored by 





East German coalition in danger 
WEST BERLIN (AP) -East Germany's ousted Communist Party chief, Egon Krenz, said Wednesday he blundered in dealing with dissension in the past, but denied being respon­sible for last fall's brutal sup­pression of pro-democracy protests. 
In other East German devel­opments, a political party threatened to bring down the shaky coalition government and the official news agency ADN announced the resignation of the nation's chief Supreme Court judge, Guenter Sarge, and the firing of the country's deputy chief prosecutor, Harry Harrland. 
Last week, Parliament opened disciplinary proceedings against both men, for allegedly moving too slowly to prosecute corruption and abuse of office. 
Krenz appeared before an in­vestigating commission of the East Berlin city government looking into police brutality during Oct. 7-8 street protests. 
The protests, coinciding with the visit of Spviet President 
The Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and The Institute for International Peace Studies 

~ 
~~I 
•P 
.( 
~ . .~ 
.. ­
,o,J ,. 
January 18, 1990 Room 121 Law School 

4:00p.m. 

University of Notre Dame 
The Church: Its Role and Influence in Yiew of the February 25th Nicaraeuan Elections 
by Rev. John Medcalf· (Autho,r of A Parish at War--Letters from Nicaragua, Templegate Publishers) 
Mikhail Gorbachev, provided a turning point in the pro-democ­racy movement that led to the ouster of hard-line leader Erich Honecker 10 days later. 
Krenz said he accepted "joint responsibility for misjudging dissident citizens and dissident groups for years." 
"From today's viewpoint, it is incomprehensible that there was no general Politburo dis­cussion about the negative de­velopments then taking place in society," said Krenz, an influ­ential Politburo member even before Honecker's fall. Krenz succeeded Honecker and him­self was ousted six weeks later. 
Krenz added that he and other Politburo members at the time failed to realize the Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches were "not working against but rather for the German Demo­cratic Republic." 
Krenz, who was in charge of many police functions at the time of the October protests, criticized the attacks by club­swinging officers. 
"The excessive action of law enforcement authorities was neither politically nor morally justifiable," he told the panel, but he said he was not person­ally responsible for orders to attack protesters. 
Another ousted Politburo 
member told the commission Honecker himself ordered the attacks. 
"Honecker took things into his own hands," Guenter Sch­abowski said. Like Krenz, Sch­abowski denied personal re­sponsibility for the orders to attack the demonstrators, most of them young people. 
The panel members are inves­tigating the possibility of filing criminal charges against the ousted leaders. 
Communist Premier Hans Modrow is struggling to hold together the coalition govern­ment formed to govern the na­tion until elections May 6. 

The Christian Democrats, one of the non-Communist parties in the coalition, threatened Wednesday to pull out to protest the Communists' con­tinued tight grip on power. 
Party spokesman Lothar Lueck said the party leadership was showing "a very strong tendency to leave the govern­ment." The party holds three of the 27 Cabinet seats. 
A collapse of the coalition could force Modrow to appeal to the pro-democracy opposi­tion to help govern the country until elections in May. 

HalfOfThisYear's Medical School ClassGotThere With OurHelp. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years ofexperience. Our small classes. Or the 
advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the 
country. 

Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
&STANLEY H. KAPlAN
.&Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Cl1ances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

AP Photo 
Freeway's last stand 
Three months after the Oct. 17, 1989 earthquake in Oakland, the Nimitz freeway is almost completely demolished. The remaining section has been used for seismic testing and will be gone by month's end. 
Three-day crime wave in Seattle results in 8 deaths 

No money was taken and the only thing believed missing was a handgun, said Bremerton Po­lice Capt. Dennis Plumb, who said police have few leads and no suspects. 
The pawnshop shootings brought to eight the number of deaths in shootings in the area during the past thme days. 
On Monday, two Seattle lawyers wen~ found shot to death in a house thP.y wem fix­ing up just south of the eity. 
Capt. T. Michat~l Nault, King County police major crimes commander, said the lawyers were not killed at random and 
The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1990 
ND receives grants for research 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame received $2,025,726 in grants during November for the sup­port of research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $1,816,769, including: 
• 
$408,916 from Interna­tional Business Machines for research on a distributed com­puting environment for hetero­geneous computers by David Cohn, professor of electrical engineering, and William De­laney, visiting assistant profes­sor of electrical and computer engineering. 

• 
$300,000 from Argonne Na­tional Laboratory for research on remediation of hazardous wastes by Hobert Irvine, pro­fessor of civil engineering and director of the Center for Bio­engineering and Pollution Con­trol; Lloyd Ketchum Jr., associ­ate professor of civil engineer­ing; and Charles Kulpa Jr., as­sociate professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$280,000 from the Ford Foundation for work by Rev. William Lewers, C.S.C., profes­sor of law and director of the Center for Human Hights, on a teaching and research program in international human rights law. 

• 
$156,712 from the U.S. Air Force for modeling, simulation and analysis of quantum trans­port by Supriyo Bandyopadhyay and Craig Lent, assistant pro­fessors of electrical and com­puter engineering, and Wolf­gang Porod, associate profes­sor of electrical and computer 


WELCOME BACK WEEKEND 



DANCE PARTY 
!:>t!TATED BUT NEVER OUPLIC.-\TED 
Friday: Spinning by John Yang and Joe Watson Saturday: Mike Jennings and Johnny B. are on the cut 
10 PM-2AM 
engineering. 

• 
$149,490 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Subhash Chandra Basu, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on glycolipid metabolism in normal and pathological tissues. 

• 
$135,956 from the U.S. Army on research on scanning tunneling microscopy by John Dow, Friemann professor of physics, James Kaiser, profes­sional specialist in physics, Hobert Jaklevic, adjunct pro­


fessor of physics, and Howard Blackstead, associate professor of physics. 
• 
$104,000 from the U.S. Air Force for research by John Dow, Friemann professor of physics, on vibrational proper­ties. 

• 
$88,900 from the American Heart Association National Center for research by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleidernr-Pezold professor of biochemistry, on regulatory domains of protnins involved in fibrinolysis. 

• 
$64,500 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Alexander Lappin, associate professor of chem­istry and biochemistry, on stereoselectivity in electron transfer. 

• 
$50,000 from the U.S. Navy for research by Flint Thomas, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on turbulence be­havior in shock wave and tur­bulent boundary layers. 

• 
$29,220 from the National Science Foundation for re­


search by Hsueh-Chia Chang, chairman and professor of chemical engineering, on non­linear techniques. 
• 
$29,075 from the Whirlpool Corp. for research by Kwang­Tzu Yang, Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on cold storage for refrigerators. 

• 
$12,000 from E. I. Dupont DeNemours and Co. for re­search by Hobert Irvine, pro­fessor of civil engineering and director of the Center for Bio­engineering and Pollution Con­trol, on identification of envi­ronmental issues at the DuponVBeaumont site. 

• 
$9,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by James Kolata, pro­fessor of physics, on nuclear reaction and structure studies with heavy ions. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $43,600 from Quantnl International for development of an active fre­quency-stabilization device by Dennis Jacobs, assistant pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­chemistry. 
Awards for instructional programs totaled $150,000 from the John Olin Foundation, Inc., for a program by Halph Mcinerny, Grace professor of medieval studies and director of the Jacques Maritain Center, on religion and American public policy. 
Awards for service programs totaled $13,857 from private benefactors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
SEATTLE (AP) -Two sailors at a top-security submarine base and a pawnshop clerk were the latest victims in a deadly thrnP.-day crime wavf! that left night dP.ad in five ap­parently unrelated shootings, police said. 
The rash of killings lnft invf!s­tigators searching for motives and for an nxplanation to the sudden jump in Snattln-area homicides. 
"I can't renwmber evnr hav­ing this many in a three-day pe­riod," said Cecil Hay, a police spokesman for King County, which includes Seattle. Thn county had only one slaying this year beforn tlw latest spren. 
Navy oflidals said the sailors werP found shot to death Tues­day in thn baclwlor enlisted quarters at Naval Submarine Basn, Bangor, whieh is about 25 milns west of Seattle on tlw llood Canal. 
Tlw oflicials said little about the killings, whkh occurmd at the base for the Navy's West Coast lltwt of Trident sub­marines. The sailors were identified as David Allen Parker, 21, of San Diego, and Scott Anthony Seely, 18, of North Hidgeville, Ohio, west of Cleveland. 
Parker was a radioman and Seely a fireman on the subma­rine USS Michigan. 
Special Navy investigators wt~re railed in from San Fran­cisco and San Diego to help a Naval Intelligence Service offi­cer at Bangor investigate the killings, Navy spokesman Gene Homann said. 
The gun used in the shootings has not btwn found. Except for those used by security guards, guns are banned on the base. 
Homann said the Navy killings were not connected to a shooting later Tuesday at a Bremerton pawnshop in which derk Julie Michaels, 32, was killed and her 35-year-old brother critically wounded. 
Bremerton is about 10 miles from the naval base. 


~ Tour includes all of the following for one low cost: ~ *Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago-London via British Airways. *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport -Hotel *8 NIGHTS: The Royal Nationar··Hotel-all rooms with private bath &continental breakfast. *7 day London Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford *Experienced Guides to Assist with: theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing 
**Total Cost per person: $975.00 ~ Call SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details ~ 232-7995 Deadline for deposit: January 29, 1990 
~......~~-----------------------.--~--~--------~~------­
Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Chinese gov't. drafts stricter laws towards Hong Kong 
HONG KONG (AP) -China on Wednesday further hardened its line toward Hong Kong by deciding that top officials in the post-1997 government could not possess the right to live abroad. Hong Kong govern­ment radio said. 
A top Chinese official also announced that Hong Kong civil servants with British pass­ports would not be allowed to seek British consular protec­tion while in the territory after it returns to Chinese rule in seven years. 
Local newspapers quoted Lu Ping, deputy secretary-general of the Basic Law Drafting Committee, which is writing llong Kong's post-1997 blueprint, as saying civil ser­renounce their Chinese citizen­ship. 
In London, the British For­eign Office said it was "seeking clarification" of the announce­ment. 
The announcements threw into doubt a British plan to of­fer passports to 50,000 key llong Kong professionals and officials, including civil ser­vants. 
The passports were being of­fered as a security neL for Hong Kong residents. Confidence in China's promise to retain Hong Kong's free-wheeling economic system for 50 years evaporated after the bloody June 4 crack­down on a movement for democracy in Beijing. 
The moves marked new re­
Quake victim improves 

ture political system. Last month, China outlawed "subversive groups" from op­erating in the territory after 1997. 
The Basic Law Drafting Committee decided in Canton that the territory's chief execu­tive, its principal officers and all its executive councilors could not possess the right of abode in another country. 
Government radio said the committee still must decide whether to ban the territory's two top judges and all its legis­lators from possessing the right to live abroad. 
Under the Basic Law, Hong Kong's top officials are already prohibited from holding a for­eign passport. The move by the 
AP Photo 


Erik Carlson, shown after the ~ctober 17, 1989 earthquake in Oakland, will leave a California hospital Fnday. Although Carlson rema1ns aral zed from the waist down, he is continuin 
thera . __ 
Chile imposes ban on fruit transport 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) -Au­thorities on Wednesday banned the transport of all fruit out of central Chile's Aconcagua Val­ley after the discovery of at least 12 Mediterranean fruit flies in the area. 
The government Agricultural Service chief. Juan Carlos Sepulveda, said the flies were found in a residential neigh­borhood in Los Andes. a city 48 miles northeast of Santiago. He said none had been detected in the fruit-growing areas. 
Nonetheless, Sepulveda said, diately implemented that in­cluded banning the transport of all fruit out of the valley. 
Grapes, peaches, nectarines and kiwis are grown in the Aconcagua area. About 16 mil­lion crates are expected to be harvested this year in the valley, virtually all for export to the United States, Japan and western Europe. 
Police roadblocks were established to enforce the quarantine, which coincides with the start of fruit harvest­ing in the Southern Hemi­

Regional governor Raul Celis said authorities believe the problem -the first time Mediterranean fruit flies have been found in Chile since 1978 -will be resolved quickly. 
The emergency plan, Sepul­veda said, includes fumigation of fruit and trees with chemi­cals. Harvested fruit will be placed in cold storage three to four days, a common procedure to kill the fly and its larvae. 
Sepulveda said the Mediter­ranean flies found in Los Andes are believed to have been come 

~~ ©[}=l]~lNl©~ IF@ ~~~ILW IF@lfJ ~ W~lfJ @IF !F@lfJ~U@lNl ~trlUJ[Q)W 
IN ANCEQ6, fQL\NCE; INN6BQUCK, AU6TQIL\; MEXICO CITY. MEXICO; NAGOYA. JAPAN; TOLEDO, 6Pi\IN 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 1, 1990 
For Further Information Contact : Claudia Kselman, Assistant Director Foreign Studies Programs 
420 Administration Building 239 -5882 
ther restriction on politicians' activities, prohibiting them from holding, for example, a 
U.S. "green" card or a resi­dence permit for Canada or Britain. 
Britain has said it hopes the passport package will boost confidence by encouraging key residents 'to stay in the terri­tory by giving them a last re­sort. 
But China says the· package violates the 1984 agreement under which Britain will hand the colony back to China. 
Lu said the British Consulate in Hong Kong would be prohib­ited from helping Hong Kong civil servants with British pass­ports after 1997. 
He said that without the right of abode in Britain, Hong Kong's people would settle in Hong Kong. 
"Now you, Britain, grant them right of abode, so just in case they commit corruption offenses or get int trouble, they can flee Hong Kong," Lu said. 
Lu's statement directly con­tradicted assurances made Tuesday by British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, who said all Hong Kong residents with British passports would be granted consular protection. 
China does not recognize dual nationals. 
The committee is expected to finish drafting the Basic Law in four days. Then it will go to China's parliament, the Na­tional People's Congress, for a largely ceremonial vote in March. 

Medellin cartel vows to stop drug trade 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­The Medellin cocaine cartel said Wednesday the government has won the war on drugs, and it said it would halt its terror campaign and stop dealing drugs in exchange for a par­don. 
The cartel released two kid­nap victims to back up its offer, which was similar to previous proposals that have been re­jected by the government. The difference in this proposal was the cartel's statement that it accepted defeat. 
Also Wednesday, a Colombian brother and sister were flown to North Carolina to face ­charges of running a cocaine­trafficking ring. That brought to 13 the number of Colombians extradited to the United States since President Virgilio Barco launched the crackdown in August. 
The drug cartel's commu­nique followed Barco's state­ment Tuesday night that his government is not "inflexible" in regards to a negotiated set­tlement with drug lords. Previ­ously, Barco ruled out talks. 
Barco, President Bush and the leaders of the cocaine-pro­ducing countries of Peru and Bolivia have joined forces to fight drug traffickers. They are expected to sign an accord to that effect at a drug summit in Cartagena, Colombia, next month. 
Patricia Echavarria. who was kidnapped Dec. 16 in Medellin along with her daughter, car­ried the 11-point communique when the two were freed Wednesday in Medellin. 
Interior Minister Carlos Le­mos Simmonds verified the au­thenticity of the communique. When asked if the government would negotiate, he said simply that officials were pleased the traffickers had conceded de­feat. 
The communique, like others from the traffickers, was signed by The Extraditables, the name of the Medellin car­tel's armed wing. 
"We accept the triumph of the state," said the commu­nique. "Thus we will Jay down our arms and abandon our ob­jectives for the benefit of the highest interests of the father­land." 
"We submit to the existing legal establishment in the hope of obtaining from the govern­ment and from society respect for our rights and our return to our families and communi­ties," the communique said. 
That has been the traffickers' way jn the past of saying they want pardons and to not be ex­tradited to the United States. 
Barco began his crackdown on drug dealers five months ago after drug lords assassi­nated a leading presidential candidate, Sen. Carlos Galan, who demanded more action against drug trafficking. 
As part of the crackdown, Barco revived Colombia's ex­tradition treaty with the United States, something feared by traffickers here. 
In the latest extradition, Di­ana Maria Caballero Rangel Gamber, 29, and Roberto Ca­ballero Rangel, 32, were turned over to U.S. marshals by Colombian authorities and flown Wednesday to Greens­boro, N.C., the Marshals Ser­vice said. 
The two were arrested Oct. 
20 by Colombian authorities in 
Bucaramanga on trafficking 
charges stemming from a 1988 
indictment returned by a fed­
eral grand jury in Greensboro. 
Drug traffickers have re­sponded to the government crackdown with a terror cam­paign that has killed 209 people. 


SPRING BREAK '90







ACAPULCO 
$499. IIJayl/1,_ Nr. HoW IIUI& PLUS, •• 
DChlcago UIIITED 8PACEI 
FOR MORE INFORMRTION CRLL: 
101 RT 1-100•528•6028 



CRLL TGDIVI 

page 8 The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1990 
Ethnic Composition of Soviet Republics 
Each of the constituent republics is namMd for the predominate ethnic group. Charts show the size of the majority (white), proportion of ethnic Russians (black) and other significant minorities (shaded). 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 
rior Ministry officials said they could not recall such measures being imposed since World War 
II. 

Foreign reporters have been barred from the region. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev sent 11,000 army and internal security troops to the southern region Tuesday, but they have been slowed by Azerbaijanis who erected barricades on roads and at a military airfield. 
The reinforcements "haven't helped yet because they haven't started to act," said Dmitri Se­leznyov, spokesman for the In­terior Ministry in Moscow. 
Troops engaged in at least one battle Tuesday, when an armed group tried to seize five armored personnel carriers near the village of Tazikend. Soldier!) fired on the group, wounding two men, Tass re­ported. 
"Since then, attempts to take APCs have stopped, because be­fore this they weren't used to having weapons used against them," Seleznyov said. 
Heinforcements also were sent to the nearby border with Iran, Tass said. More than 7,000 Armenians have been evacuated from Baku, many in ferry boats across the Caspian Sea. 
In Baku, a· handful of Soviet soldiers for nearly three hours held back a crowd of 5,000 people trying to prevent the de­tention of 10 nationalists who broke into the apartment of' a Hussian family, Tass said. They finally agreed to release the 10, and led the Hussians and an Armenian family out of the house, protecting them with shields. 
In Armenia, residents broke into police stations and other buildings seeking weapons, Se­leznyov said. About 50,000 people attended a rally in the Armenian capital Yerevan to hear reports about the fighting, said Armenian aetivist Karen Shakhbazyan. 
Azerbaijanis staged protests in Baku and elsewhere to' de­mand they be armed and al­lowed to defnnd tl11~ir daim to Nagorno-Karabakh, newspa­pers and officials said. 
Azerbaijanis continued their rail blockade of Armenia's 3.5 million people, cutting short fuel and other supplies. Azer­baijan has 6.9 million people. 
The Soviet government and the Communist Party issued a joint statement of condolence to families of the dead. 
In Moscow, a 49-yl~ar-old Armenian woman spoke sadly of the night Azerbaijani thugs 
beat  her  in  front  of her 15­ 
year-old son.  
"They  are  killing us," said  

/\lisa i\rakelova, her face swollen and black from a frac­tured jaw, lwr left wrist and two fingers broken and encas1~d in plaster, and fingen1ails blackened and smashed. She escaped Baku for Moscow aft1~r the attack in her apartment, just days before ethnic hatrnd eruptPd in the latest, most deadly round of two years of etlmic violeneP in the Caucasus. 
She said tlw police advised them to leave. and said they have lost control of the city. 

II Ukraine r:J Russian Rep. 

4% Ukrainian ~~~ian 12% Other 1%Jewish 
5% Other 
EJ Belorussia IIMoldavia 
12% Russian 13%. 
RUSSian 

4% Polish 
14%

4%0ther 
Ukrainian 9%0ther 


IIGeorgia 
CHINA 

Ill Uzbekistan 

11 o/a Russian 4% Tajiks 16%0ther 

IS Kazakhstan 
Russian 
6% Ukrainian 14 Other 
(j
8% Russian 
9% Armenian 
14% Other 

0 Turkmenistan 
13% Russian 9% Uzbek 9%0ther 


mJ Azerbaijan 
8% Russian 8% Armenian %Other 

Not9: numb9rs may not squat one hundred due to rounding 
Source: The Central Intelligence Agency 

Grades 
continued from page 1 
missing and some people were left ol'l' llw grade list. She said that the program was "elearwd up" using the old drop and add forms so that discrepancies can be avoided in the future. 
Students received their spring smnester schedules late due to problems with programming on the Hewlett-Packard, according to Spaulding. Like the grades, the schedules had to run through the computer twice, a tim<~ consuming process. 
"The llewlett-l'ackard system itsnlf ran line," said Spaulding. Slw said that the "bugs" had to he dnaned out of' the system. 
Finally, the Oflic1~ of the Heg­istrar had problems with com­puting studPnts' grade point averages (GPi\s). Spaulding said that GPi\s arn eomputed on tlw IBM systPrn. "This was a otw-tinw problmn," she said. "This usually doesn't happen." 
Spaulding said that most of llw problmns wPre caused be­
AP/T. Dean Caple 
cause of "bugs" in the new sys­tem. She expects that the prob­lems will not oecur again next semester. 



Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
Zahrn received the 1925 l.aetare medal for his pioneer studies in aeronautics. 
Zahm's contributions to aeronautical studies included the first description of the modern method of launching an airplane and controlling its llight. lie also built the first wind tunnel for comparing the lift and drag of aeronautical models in 1882. 
The  Laetare  Medal  is  the  
oldest  and  most  prestigious  
honor  awarded  American  

Catholics. Given annually by Notm Dame, past recipients of the nwdal include President John KenrH~dy and Speaker of' tlw llouse Thomas "Tip" O'NPill, Jr. 
Wetlwrhee and the medal are due to return with the Columbia shuttle sclwduled to land 
Friday. 

Myers Portage Laundromat  
next to Domino's Pizza  
Toploaders  STILL  .85¢  
Double loaders  $1.50  
FREE WASH after 10 washes  
STUDENT DISCOUNT on drop off  
I  •••~02S~2~~~~~~J~~~2~---­FREE WASH COUPON  
I I I  Myers Portage Laundromat 828-830 Portage Ave.  

South Bend, IN 466161Good for one free topload wash,Mon-Thurs, Limit one per customer. Exoires 2/18/90 
1 
I 
I I I 
I 
: 

L 1 
--------------·--------­

AP Photo A soviet captain is treated for wounds received during clashes involving Moslem Azerbaijan gangs attacking Christian Armenians. At least 32 people have been killed in the clashes, according to Soviet media on Mon­day. 

At Michigan National Corporation, our goa~ '·s to be a world·dass banking institution that provides the finest quality service in our industry. 
To realize our goal, we need people who are willing to accept the challenge of becoming the best in the business. We seek aggressive, intelligent, driven people who believe in our philosophy, and who are willing to make the sacrifices necessary to attain our goals. In return, you'll work in an exciting, entrepreneurial environment that gives you the freedom to be your best. 
If you are up to 'Our challenge, we will be conducting campus interviews January 31st. Please contact your Placement Office for further details. 
£.® 
Michigan National Bank 

Equal Opportunity Emplayer 

Religious items sold on TV can be taxed 
WASHINGTON {AP) -Reli­gious items sold by television evangelists through the mail or at crusade appearances may be taxed by states just like any other merchandise, the Supreme Court ruled Wednes­day. 
The court said such taxes do not violate religious freedom, and unanimously upheld lower court rulings that forced the Louisiana-based Jimmy Swag­gart Ministries to pay $183,000 in back taxes to California. 
Most states tax the proceeds of at least some mail order sales to their residents, but Cal­ifornia apparently is the only state that does not exempt reli­gious organizations. 
Other states searching for additional tax revenues now could follow California's lead. 
"California's non-discrimina­tory sales and use tax law ... imposes no constitutionally significant burden on {Swaggart's) religious practices or beliefs," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote for the court. 
The tax at issue was imposed on the sales of religious books, tapes and other merchandise sold by Swaggart's organiza­tion from 197 4 through 1981. 
Swaggart did not challenge California's taxing T-shirts, mugs, bowls and crown-of­thorns mplicas sold by his min­istry. 
Mail-order sales from Swag­gart's base in Baton Rouge, La., to California consumers during those years totaled $1.7 million. Sales of merchandise at California crusades totaled $240,000. 
Swaggart's challenge of the 
tax had been supported by an 
array of religious groups 
-from Hare Krishnas to mainline Protestants. Lawyers for the National Council of Churches, represent­ing most Protestant denomina­tions, called the California tax "a serious threat ... a tax on the dissemination of religious messages, and thus a forbidden tax on the exercise of religion." Backing California's authority to impose such a wx were two organizations not usually allied in court -the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Conference of State Legislatures. Swaggart's lawyers had relied heavily on a 1943 high court ruling that overturned the convictions of Jehovah's Witnesses who violated a city ordinance requiring all people engaged in door-to-door can­vassing to get licenses and pay fees. 
The Jehovah's Witnesses were distributing religious literature, and the 1943 ruling said, "This form of religious activity occu­pies the same high estate under the First Amendment as do worship in the churches and preaching from the pulpits." 
But Wednesday's decision drew a distinction between those fees and the California tax. 
"Our concern (in the 1943 ruling) that a flat license tax would act as a precondition to the free exercise of religious beliefs is simply not present where a tax applies to all sales and uses of tangible personal property in the state," O'Connor wrote. 


Outer space experimenting 
AP Photo 

Space Shuttle mission specialist David Low shows one of the tubes of pink bread mold being grown in space in this television picture Monday. 
Court to rule on Reagan subpoena 
WASHINGTON {AP)-A fed­eral judge Wednesday ordered a hearing in connection with John Poindexter's effort to subpoena former President Reagan as a witness at Poindexter's upcoming trial. 
U.S. District Court Judge Harold Greene said next Tues­day's court session will focus on whether a president or former president may be sub­poenaed to be a witness at a trial under any circumstances. 
Greene asked that lawyers for Reagan, Poindexter, the Justice Department and the Iran-Con­tra prosecutor's office address possible alternatives to bring­ing Reagan to court to testify during Poindexter's trial. 
Alternatives might be having Reagan give a videotaped depo­sition or giving written re­sponses to questions. 
Poindexter is seeking court approval to subpoena Reagan's testimony, asserting that the president authorized some of the activities in the Iran-Contra affair for which the ex-national security adviser now is accused of crimes. 
The judge said the lawyers should address what kind of showing Poindexter must make regarding the "materiality or necessity" of Reagan's testi­mony before the former na­tional security adviser is al­lowed to subpoena his ex-b(!ss. 
In connection with a separate subpoena, Reagan was ordered by Greene to turn over to the court by Jan. 7 portions of the former president's diaries per­taining to Iran-Contra matters. 
Greene is expected to rule on whether the excerpts will be turned over to Poindexter in preparation for his trial. 
Attempted hijacker overpowered by police 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -A man accused of trying to hijack an American West airliner to Cuba seemed agitated before the flight but told airline agents he was nervous about flying and worried about a sick rela­tive. 
Airline employees accepted his explanation and allowed Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Gonzalez, 39, of New Orleans, on Tues­day's 10:45 p.m. flight from Houston to Las Vegas, an air­line spokesman said Wednes­day. 
Shortly after, passengers said, Gonzalez-Gonzalez grabbed flight attendant Stacy Wood, 26, announced he had a bomb and demanded to go to his native Cuba. 
He was apprehended at Austin's Robert Mueller Munic­ipal Airport by a police officer who climbed up an emergency chute and overpowered him. 
Gonzalez-Gonzalez, a native of Cuba, was to be arraigned Wednesday afternoon on air piracy charges, a federal of­fense punishable by 20 years to life in prison. Police said he signed a confession. 
No bomb was discovered, but a device made of a toothpaste container and a "flashlight­type article" was found, said FBI agent Michael Wilson. 
Authorities declined to elabo­rate on a motive for the at­tempt. 
"The only thing he asked for was to be flown back to Cuba. ... He just felt like, I think, that he was personally being threat­ened and people were out to get him," Austin Police Deputy Chief Kenneth Williams said. He said Gonzalez-Gonzalez has been in the United States since April 1962. 





Business 
page 10 Thursday, January 18, 1990 
Kemp kills HUD's mortgage insurance program 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Hous­essary regulatory approvals. at HUD during the Reagan criticized many of the co-insur­sured for $47.2 million and ul­ing Secretary Jack Kemp on In the interim, Kemp ordered, administration. ance lenders for approving timately defaulted because of Wednesday killed a program effective immediately, that pri­The co-insurance program, bloated mortgages that far ex­vacancy problems blamed on that allows private lenders to vate lenders preparing to ap­created in 1983, was part of the ceeded the property value. rents that were too high for the commit the government to in­prove a co-insured loan first Reagan administration's effort The General Accounting Of­depressed Houston real estate suring mortgages and that has submit all documentation to to reduce the federal bu­fice has estimated that defaults market but necessary to cover 
eost taxpayers nearly $1 billion HUD for approval. reaucracy by turning over work and other related losses have the mortgage. IIUD was forced b1)eause of sour loans. to the private sector. cost taxpayers at least $960 to take over Colonial House and 
Because of projects in the ap­Kemp's decision comes four The program allows private million. recovered just $8.9 million proval pipeline, Kemp said the months after HUD officials said lenders to process mortgages The most notorious case -when it auctioned the develop­program would have to be the co-insurance program for multifamily housing devel­which Kemp cited in his state­ment last year. phased out, a period Depart­would be reformed and revived. opments and unilaterally ment announcing the decision ment of Housing and Urban It was one of many HUD pro­commit HUD to insuring -was the HUD-backed loan for Kemp suspended the program Development officials said was grams investigated during last roughly 80 percent of them in the Colonial House apartment last summer as evidence of likely to last several months or year's allegations of misman­the event of default. Audits by complex in Houston. shoddy mortgage underwriting perhaps longer because of nee-agement and influence peddling HUD's inspector general have The development was co-in-mounted. 
Trade deficit widened in Nov., poor showing partly due to strike 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Amer­cent surge in the October mines and utilities rose 0.2 per­ica's trade deficit widened to defieit, left private economists centage point to 83.3 percent of $10.5 billion in November, its disheartened about the chances capacity. worst showing in 11 months, as for further improvement in the Much of the strength was at­
U.S. exports took a tumble country's trade performance tributed to a return of striking caused in part by a strike at any time soon. Boeing workers and a record Boeing, the Commerce Depart­Wall Street reacted to the jump in utility usage, caused by ment said Wednesday. trade report with disappoint­unusually severe weather in 
The Commerce Department ment as well, sending the Dow December. 
said that while imports dipped Jones industrial average down slightly from an all-time high by 33.49 points to close at But analysts, noting that in­set in October, U.S. exports 2,659.13, its lowest closing dustrial production figures for 
saiHs declined Hven more, since Nov. 22. September, October and falling to their lowest level However, in better economic November were all revised up­since last March. news, the government reported ward, said the new-found AP Photo 
Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher said the Bush administration 
As a rnsult, the trade deficit, Wednesday that industrial pro­strength in U.S. industry pro­tlw difference bPtween imports duction rose 0.4 percent in De­vided further evidence that the was still looking for "continued moderate improvement in the trade and Hxports, rose 2.4 pereent. cember, its best showing since current economic slowdown deficit" in 1990. Trade improvement, which has accounted for almost The incrnase, corning on the August. while the operating should not worsen into a reces­half the U.S. ecominic growth the last two years, seems to be running out of steam.
luwls of an even worse 20 per-rate at American factories, sion. 


The Center for Social Concerns 
University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS 

(FOR INFORMATION: 239-5283)  Feb. 5-Monday 4:00p.m.  "Solidarity with the Poor: A Family Perspective" with Jim and Kathy McGinnis (Co-sponsored by  
NOTE: Events will be held at the Center for Social Concerns,  120 Law School  the Peace Institute and Year of the Family)  
unless otherwise noted.  Feb. 7 ­ Wednesday  Summer Service Project  -application deadline  
Jan. 19-Friday  Urban Plunge reflection papers due  Washington Seminar -application deadline Appalachian Seminar -application deadline  
Jan. 21 -Sunday 6:45 -10:00 p.m.  Urban Plunge followup -Meet at Hesburgh Library Auditorium -then to faculty homes  Feb. 8 -Thursday 7:00 -9:00 p.m.  Peace Corps Information Night  
Jan. 24 -Wednesday 1:00 -5:00 p.m.  Summer Job Fair (The Center will be a participant.) {Center for Continuing Education)  Feb. 17 _Saturday 2 00: p.m.  Junior Parents Weekend  -Reception  
Jan. 25 -Thursday 7:00-10:00 p.m.  CSC Activities Night (See details below.)  Feb. 22-Thursday 11:30-1:00 p.m.  Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Women United for Justice and Peace  
Jan. 29 ­ Feb. 4  Black Cultural Awareness Week {See events below. Others will be announced.)  Feb. 23 -Friday 12:15 -1:00 p.m.  Friday Forum for faculty and staff Topic: "Racism &: Sexism in the Classroom"  
Jan. 29-Feb. 2 Videos available for continuous showing: 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. •King's '1 Have a Dream" speech LaFortune, Dooley Room •"Eyes on the Prize" -6-part series  Feb. 27 -Tuesday 7:00p.m.  Appalachian Seminar Meeting  
Jan. 29 -Monday 7:00 -8:00 p.m.  Appalachian Seminar Information Night  Feb. 28-Wednesday 7:00p.m.  Washington Seminar Meeting  
8:00 -9:00 p.m.  Washington Seminar Information Night  Mar. 6 -Tuesday  Appalachian Seminar Meeting  
Feb. 1 -Thursday 11:30-1:00 p.m.  Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Native Americans  7:00p.m. Mar. 7 -Wednesday  Washington Seminar Meeting  
7:00p.m.  
Feb. 2 -Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m.  Friday Forum for faculty and staff Topic: "Racism &: Sexism in the Oassroom"  Mar. 10-17  Appalachian Seminar  
Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble  Mar. 10-17  Washington Seminar  
with Sister Thea Bowman (Washington Hall)  
<The Choir Concert is sponsored by the Black  Mar. 10-18  Mid-semester Break  
Cultural Awareness Council.)  

DO YOU WANT TO ADD VARIETY TO YOUR LIFE? Find just the right way to broaden and deepen your START THE SEMESER WITH NEW ENERGY academic experience. More than thirty groups and COME TO THE SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL agencies will be represented at the festival. They will Thursday -January 25 -7:00 to 10:00 p.m. answer questions about their programs and provide At the Center for Social Concerns information about schedules and the kinds of service and social action opportunities that they offer. Get involved and enrich your life as well as the lives of those you meet. 
------------------~----------------­



Viewpoint __, 
Thursday, January 18, 1990 
page 11 




P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regrs Coccia  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager...........Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  . Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager ...... Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  . . . . .Theresa Kelly  Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Blasr  Systems Mgr ...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  .Enc Barley  OTS Director................. Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Chnstme Gill  Controller.......  . .................. Anne Lindner  

The Observer rs lhe rndependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the admrmstratlon of either mstitutron. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible Unsigned edrtorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following Editor-in-Chief, Managrng Edrtor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Edrtor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present the vrews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communrty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged 
........ 
_;;..-_
,~ 
I 1 
' ' 
I I 
I I ,, I I II I I 
·.·~··tl

I ,, 
·~ I 
-~r:-·
,.. 
-~ 

~"· '~\\~~ 



The Observer Viewpoint Department Policy 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. While individuals not associated with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the Viewpoint department gives priority to those individuals who are directly associated with the community. 
I I . All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons submitted to the Viewpoint department become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in-chief or the permission of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. If the commentaries have not been printed in The Observer, the Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors. 
I I I . The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint de­partment. The Observer has no obligation to print commentaries submitted. Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelli­gible or submitted by anyone mentally unbalanced. 
DOONESBURY 
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circumstances will unsigned commentaries appear in print in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. The author's name appearing in print must be one by which the author is commonly known. 
V • Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists 
VI. 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. The means of verification are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VII . Only those individuals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organization's name. In such cases, the primary author of the commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the organization. 
OBVIOU5iY, THe WHO/..£ POINT OF 7Ht5 N&W PU&It F(}f?{J3 15 70 t?t-&7TABU5H C/?W/8/UTY 
WITH TH& PANAMANIAN I'/3()Pf,&. 
JUST Ol/TOF CJJR105~ H011JMANY 
CF YOU Pit/?& IN NO/?Jf(JA'5 OW 
P.!JF.~ 
I 

VIII. 

Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or publications. Exceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. 
IX. 

The opinions expressed in the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House editorials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regular columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; and cartoons are commentaries. Such status is determined by the Viewpoint editor in all incidences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the lnsta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 
X. Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose commentaries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that commentary in let­ters to the editor. 
This policy must be approved be the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the 
XI. 
Viewpoint department  of  The  
Observer.  
XII.  No commentaries of  

any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning and candidate for student government or hall office once the official campaign period has begun for that office. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer reserves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor-in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 


XIII. 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A vacation is over when you begin to yearn for your work.' 
Morris Fishbein 

-
--
.----------------------­



Accent 
Thursday, January 18, 1990

page 12 
-~~-------------~~­
-
Holy Cross Associate Sarah Aauh worked with developmentally disabled adults last year in Hayward, 
California. Each year about 36 Notre Dame graduates join Holy Cross priests at one of five domestic sites or 
in Santiago, Chile. 
GINA CAMARENA the opportunity to do service Program. Roemer singlnd out and put her future goals into accent writer 'What hit me the work while in college -that HCA for giving its volunteers perspnctive. "What hit me the other activities restricted their the "ability to be close with most about the Holy Cross
most about the

Some recent Notre Dame time. Hoerner believes these people." Program is that, regardless of graduates who earn only Holy Cross volunteers want the chance to "It develops confrontation what you want to do-such as enough to meet living expenses give something back to the and communication skills. It law school-you benefit so in a break-even budget are ex­Program is that, community as gratitude for the helps us to learn to be better much from living with the peo­periencing the best year in their time spent at Notre Dame. "It lovers, better friends and better ple. As a lawyer, I will have the 

regardless of what

lives. They do not have profes­is sometimes a feeling of jus­listeners," said Hoerner. btmefit of knowing what people sional earners and are not stu­you want to do -tice," she said. Irene Loftus-wife, mother, need. By sharing and being vul­dents in graduate school, but Kenneth Cotter volunteered and law student -traveled to nerable, I learned from those I 

such as law

they are developing a deeper because it was something that Hayward, California after was helping," said Loftus. 
sense of themselves as volun­school-you "just felt right." Cotter, a law graduating in 1981 and worked Hoerner also felt that vulner­
teers in the Holy Cross student and assistant rector in in a youth center. An old school ability is another strength of
-Associates Program. benefit so much Cavanaugh Hall, counseled building had been converted IICA. "lt puts you in a situation 
Eaeh year an average of 30 from living with the troubled junior high students in into a youth center, providing where you are vulnerable and graduates participate in the Phoenix. "The best thing about services in health care, job (challenges you to be) consis­one-year domestic program, people.' the program," said Cotter, placement, child care, aid for tent with your values," she said. and approximately six onter the ------"was learning about myself and battered women and other such Loftus also enjoyed working two-ymLr program in Chile as a and South Bend which was what things were important to areas. with the Jloly Cross priests. transition from college life to added to the list this Fall. The me." "What really hit me," said "We became very good friends," the real world. The IICA pro­two-year diverse program is lo­The greatest impact on Cotter Loftus, "is that there are those she said. Those very good gram is a "deepening and de­cated in Santiago, Chile. was not the job itself, but the of us who have all this educa­friends performed the ceremony 
.. 
velopment of spirituality that Volunteers work in one of experience of living and com­tion and somehow we think we when Irene married .Jamie, a means Christianity-but not in many social service areas: promising with five other vol­know what other people want former IICA voluntenr in an evangelical way," said Mary teaching in Catholic schools, unteers. "I think I am better -but we really don't." Portland, Oregon, and they Ann Hoerner, Coordinator of programs for the elderly, alco­prepared to be married now," Loftus worked with juvenile baptized the couple's second Post-Graduate Service hol and drug treatment facili­said Cotter, who found sharing delinquents who came from pe­child on Nov. 11. Opportunities at the Center for ties, food banks, shelters for one bathroom with five others nal institutions. She would help The idea of lay people experi­Social Concerns. women, and youth ministry. and budgeting time and money them find jobs, teach them how encing the ministry was the ba­
The IICA program, sponsored The program attracts two difficult. to fill out job applications and sis of the HCA program 11 by the Indiana Province of Holy types of volunteers. Hoerner Not only did Cotter learn to run through mock interviews. years ago. "It began by people Cross priests, gives graduates said most choose IICA as an ex­compromise with his peers, but Loftus found that some youths of like mind who saw lay people an opportunity t.p ~xplore the tension of service they have he also learned how to accept were successful in turning their wanting to integrate service life M lay ministry before pur­done in the past, such as the others who have different lives around -others were not. within their lives without being suing a career or graduate two-day Urban Plunge program tastes, interests or values from "lt is hard to work (with priests or nuns," said Hoerner. school. Volunteers spend one or or the two-month summer ser­his own. "l learned to look past them) for such a short time. Both Cotter and Loftus two years in areas where the vice project. These volunteers all that. lt is allowing yourself The cycle is already started. agreed that the year in HCA 
-
Holy Cross priests are at work. want to put their past service to mature," said Cotter. You need to get them at a was the "best year" in their 
Domestic sites include work into perspective and "see ln fact, the idea of community younger age in order to break lives. According to Cotter, it is 
Portland, Oregon; Avondale, where their service work is is what differentiates HCA from that cycle," said Loftus. an opportunity "to sift through 
Arizona; Hayward, California; leading," said Roemer. other service programs, such The HCA experience helped what you want to do with your 
Colorado Springs, Colorado; Others feel they did not have as the Peace Corps or_ the Jesuit Loftus learn more about herself life." 
... 

Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Hornacek leads Suns to win over Mavs; Celts beat Magic 
(AP) -Jeff Hornacek scored seven straight points to ignite a 21-7 burst over the last 
8:50 that carried the Phoenix Suns to a 108-88 victory over the Dallas Mavericks on Wednesday night. 
The victory was the fifth straight for Phoenix. Dallas has lost four straight and seven of eight. 
Tom Chambers led Phoenix with 26 points, 14 in the third quarter when the Suns hit 73 percent of their shots. Hornacek finished with 20. James Donaldson and Rolando Blackman each scored 17 for Dallas. 
With 8:50 to play, Phoenix led 87-81. but Hornacek's seven straight points, capped by a 3­pointer, made it 94-81 with 
3:41 remaining and the Suns outscored Dallas 14-7 the rest of the way. 
Phoenix led 28-24 after one quarter and Eddie Johnson came off the bench to score eight second-quarter points as the Suns stretched the lead to 50-44 at halftime. The Suns outrcbounded Dallas 29-14 in the first half and scored many of their baskets after offensive rebounds. 
A 1 0-4 run by Phoenix in the early minutes of the second half built the Suns' lead to 60-49 but Dallas countered with an 11-2 spurt behind Blackman, who had all but two of his points in the quarter, and the Suns' led 84-76 after three pe­riods. 
Hous. 107, Cavs 98 
Otis Thorpe scored six of his 21 points during a 23-6 spurt that broke the game open, and Akeem Olajuwon had 19 points and 19 assists as the Houston Rockets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 107-98 Wednesday night. 
Buck Johnson led the Rockets 
with 22 points. 
Larry Nance led the Cavaliers with 20 points and 11 re­bounds. Mark Price added 17 points. 
Leading 53-52 after the first 
basket of the second half. 
Houston outscored Cleveland 
23-6 during the next seven minutes for a 76-58 lead. The Cavaliers were never closer than 13 points again until the final two minutes. 
Houston took a 20-14 lead with 4:22 left in the first quar­ter after scoring eight straight points. The Rockets led 27-25 entering the second quarter. 
The Rockets had a 39-35 ad­vantage midway through the second quarter and held their biggest lead of the half, 52-45, with 1:36 remaining. 
Spurs 101, N.Y. 97 
Willie Anderson scored 26 points, including 13 in the fourth quarter to lead the San Antonio Spurs to their 14th consecutive home-court victory, 101-97 over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night. 
Terry Cummings had 21 points for the Spurs and David Robinson added 20. Patrick Ewing led the Knicks with 27. 
New York, trailing by 11 points late in the third period, got back in the game with a 10­2 surge, then held San Antonio without a field goal for nearly seven minutes in the fourth quarter. 
With the scored tied at 90 and 1:26 to play, Robinson hit an 8-footer, then stole a pass intended for Ewing, leading to 
a  pair  of  free  throws  by  
Anderson.  
After  a  basket  by  Gerald  

Wilkins, Anderson's field goal and free throw gave the Spurs a 97-92 lead with 26 seconds left. 
Robinson blocked a dunk by Ewing, but Maurice Cheeks missed two free throws, and Ewing countered with a field goal, pulling the Knicks to 97­94 at the 11-second mark. 
After Vernon Maxwell's dunk, Mark Jackson banked in a 3­point shot to make it 99-97 with two seconds left. Anderson closed it out with two free throws. 
Robinson scored eight sec­ond-quarter points to trigger a 14-3 San Antonio spurt, helping the Spurs to a 4 7-42 halftime lead despite shooting 36 per­cent. 
San Antonio set a team record with 16 offensive re­bounds in the half. 
Celts 133, Orl. 111 
Robert Parish scored 25 points and pulled down 26 rebounds and the Boston Celtics made their first 25 free throws and never trailed in a 133-111 victory over the Orlando Magic on Wednesday night. 


Larry Bird, playing in his sec­ond game after missing four with a severe left ankle sprain, had 14 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists. Kevin McHale added 21 points for the Celtics. Terry Catledge led Orlando with 24. 
After the teams traded bas­kets in the first minute, Boston took charge with a 12-0 run, including six by Bird. The Magic, which lost its fourth straight game, scored the next two baskets to make it 14-6 but got no closer. 
The Celtics steadily increased their lead as five Boston players scored in double figures en route to a 70-53 halftime lead. 
Boston shot 58.1 percent and outrebounded Orlando 51-31. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
HELLO
WANTED ENTHUSIASTIC TOP TEN 'BONE tbass&theBRM. FELICIA PEACH!! 
STUDENTS TO RUN TRIPS FOR SPRING BREAK. EARN FREE 

NOTICES FOR SALE ORANGEBOWLTHEMES we miss you -stay moleful 
& 

10. Orange Whip? -ag,louise.carolyn.jeffWord Processing TRIPS AND COMMISSIONS. 
FIONA RODERICK!! Is it True...Jeeps lor $44 through 
9. Hey guys, there's a lireI Can return on disk TRIPS INCLUDE DAYTONA 
8. Free McKenna! Pick up and delivery BEACH. MEXICO, JAMAICA AND 
the Government? Call for facts! 1· LETS MAKE LUNCH PLANS. OK? MARCH FOR LIFE 
7. Fay Faying 271-9114 BAHAMS. IF INTERESTED 
708-7 42-1142 Ext. 7316 in South Bend 

6. Lurch Faying PLEASE CALL TODD AT 1-800­
CP, meet at K of C Hall815 N. Ml 1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4-DOOR, 
5.' Orange Whip? WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF 265-1799. STUDENT TRAVEL 
j.o. noon Sun 1/21AM-FM STEREO CASSETTE, 
4. THUNDER CHICKEN!!! BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE SERVICES. 
3. Okay, okay, okay ... okay,UP TO $1 ,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!!! 
44,000 MILES. POWER 

SPRINGBREAK SAILING STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 
okay.. okay, okay, okay. Objective: Fundraiser 
ATTENTION: EXCELLENT BAHAMAS Ellen you should have expected 
2. Win one lor the Wacker!
272-5651. MAKE OFFER. 

Cor(lmitment: Minimal INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLE 45ft Captained Yachts something like that from Chris. 
1. Three orange whips I. 

Money: Raise $1,400 WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 Groups of Eight Mammy you almost got some of 
75 Volvo 164E. Classic styling, Seven Days Barefoot in the your own. Christine. boy did you Cost: Zero Investment DEPT. P5868 
high miles, some rust. $1200. Call JUNIORS
Campus organizations, clubs. Bahamas miss a great show and I bet you ..
289-9067. Leave message. 

frats, sororities call OCMC: Earn $300-$500 per week $455.00 each All Accommodation regret it . Chris. you know , it really 1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-8472. Reading books at home. Call 1· & Meals ain't that big. Willy , I heard they 
JUNIORS 

615-473-7440 Ext. B340 SPRING BREAK HOTLINE needed mace to subdue you. And\ PERSONALS 1-800·999-7245 Anytime Mac. what were you doing in the ext. 10 CHICAGO TRIP 1/27-1/28 
alley. ADOPTION 
TIX ON SALE NOW AT 
Earn $300-$500 per week reading books at home. Call1-615-473­

1 LOST/FOUND I 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S (Jan. 27) Doctor & artist, happily married, LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING -parents' anniversary x4352 warm. seek white newborn to love .JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE 
7 440 Ext B340 FINALSII PLEASE CALL IF YOU and cherish. Legal. confidential. 
FOUND IT· MUCH SENTIMENTAL Please call Hanna & Mark collect LIMITED SUPPLY 
BE ON T.V. many needed for VALUE. X4286 (212) 864-5512
commercials. Now hiring all ages. hi ag 


-
DON'T MISS IT !!

For casting info. call Are you a semor guy who got a Joe reads LOVESWEPT Babysitter needed for 15 mo. old
(615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1481 Lovely Lisie, packet of Senior Photos of a M-F or MWF orT-Th 8-12 or 1. 

I 
Happy belated 20th B-day!!!!l Youfemale? Then I probably have Please call 234-87 43 are the first yours. Please call Sara at The Happy 21st Birthday Kim Kolber! 
one of us to be two decades old! 

Observer. 239-5303. Due to your recently celebrated 100 CHILDREN ARE WAITING TO Watch out birthday you now have the BE MATCHED WITH ND/SMC BIG for those gray hairs and kiss your admiration and respect of your BROTHERS AND SISTERS. 
teenage years

IL.,~W'!'--A-:--:N""'":'T""'":'E_D~-.1' 2 apts~~~~ENT 
younger peers and a difficult duty DO YOU CARE? 
goodbye. Don't worry, we'll still Ht:LI-'! Grad student needs 1 studio on E. Jeff. 250 mo to uphold(buying beer for parties). COMING JAN. 25 love babysitter Tues and Thurs AM fro Apt with river view 395 mo May you rise to the occasuion (as 

you-you old tart!!!! 
Michael "Chia Pet" Faehner,

9:15 to 12:45 in her home. 234-includes utilities you did Tuesday night ) and show Love, The Quint + 1 0022 233-7631·234-8743 fertilize and watch it grow. 
the world what it means to be 21. 
***** 
.. 

....------------------~~----~-------------~---~-­
Thursday, January 18, 1990

page 14 The Observer 
·­
Boston Marathon course will not change despite new rule 
(AP) -The Boston Marathon course won't change, despite nnw rules that exclude races run on it from consideration for world or American records. rae!~ din~ctor Guy Morse said Wednesday. 
lie also said the race will ron­tinue to award bonuses to run­ners who beat the best time ever run by Americans or for­eign competitors or who set course rPcords. 
The New York City Marathon, in the same predicament, also intends to maintain its course and systl\m of bonuses, race coordinator Allan Steinfeld said. 
The Athletics Congress, which oversees track and field and road racing in the United States, adopted rules last month in an apparent attempt to standardize the kinds of courses on which marathon rncords can be set and limit the possibility of one being set on an easy course. 
In the past, TAC had one record for marathons whose starting and finishing lines were relatively close to each other and another for marathons which started at one point and finished at a dis­tant point. 
Under the new rules, TAC will 
recognize only one record. The 
races must be run under the 
following guidelines: 
-The starting line can be no more than one meter per kilo­mnter -about 42 meters ­higher in altitude than the lin­ish line. The difference in Boston is about 150 meters, said Basil llonikman, TAC's na­tional records chairman. 
-The starting and finishing linns can be no further apart than 30 percnnt of the race dis­tance -or about eight miles. If a racn doesn't meet that stan­dard. it still can qualify for a record as long as the wind doesn't exceed a certain level still to be established. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

NVA has announcPd sewral upcoming deadlines. lntPrhall nwn's and wonwn's doubles rarqul'tball, tPams racquetball and w-rec volleyball will have a .Jan. 24 deadli1w. Sign up at tlw NVA ollicn. ANobics will begin .Jan. 24 and 25. 
Novice women's crew willnHwt at 5:30p.m. today at gatP ;{ of tlw .JoycP ACC to lwgin workouts. 
Cross country ski clinic for bPgimwrs will b1• held from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday, .Jan. 21 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. The cost is $4 with equipment rental available for $2. Deadline is Friday, .Jan. 19. Sign up in NVA office. 
Water Polo Club will practice at 8:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Cenwr. Anyone interested in playing should attend. Plans for the upcoming semester will be discussed. 
Signups for iee rental for intramural teams will be at 1 
p.m. today. rirst-eomP, first-serve at the .Joyce ACC ice rink. Call Scott Gosselin at 239-5227 for morP information. 

... 
If you've set your sights on law school. there's no better lSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. . . . 
Our lSAT prep will open you eyes with score-ratsmg strateg~es and techniques. We'll'help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively All our class and study material is based on the "new"lSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additiOnal help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP~ lab. open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
-
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor. 
& STANLEY H. KAPlAN
c£ Take KaplanOrTakeYourChances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
"It clarifies a system that lacked integrity." Ilonikman said. 

Bob Hersh. chairman of the TAC rules committee, said, "This is designed to bring legit­imacy and give the proper recognition without having the circumstances like excessivQ wind and excessive downhill being a factor." 
The New York race meets the first standard. but its start and finish are further apart than allowed. 
Although Boston doesn't meet either criterion, Morse contends that it is not an easy course. Only three world records, whose validity are now in doubt, have been set on it. An attempt to exempt Boston from the new rules failed. 
"It's clear to any athlete you talk to, world class or everyday runner. that it is a tough course that beats you up," Morse said. lie hopes to con­vince T AC to change the rulPs. 
Morse and Steinfeld said courses cannot be comph~tely 
standardized since they are run outdoors in different cities throughout the world. They were particularly upset by the retroactivity of the rules, which wipes out from record consid­eration any times already run in Boston and New York. 
Morse said eight of the top 18 times run by Americans were run in Boston. Until the new rules were adopted, the fastest accepted marathon run by an American was Alberto Salazar's time of 2:08:51 in Boston in 1982. TAC now rec­ognizes Tony Sandoval's 1979 time of 2:10:20 as the Amnriean record. 
Steinfeld said thn rntroaetivity "doesn't make any sense whatsoever." 
Hersh said the new rules first were approved by TAC's three committees that dPal with long­distance running. But Steinfeld, a mnmber of the mpn's long­distance running eommittee, said he and possibly other members didn't rnalizn the rules would be applied retroac­tively. 
llonikman said the records system is just a small part of thn sport and TAC will keep a list of the top marathon per­
formances no matter what 
course they wern run 011. 
.Jack Mahoney, sports mar­keting consultant for .John llancock Financial Services, which sponsors the New York and Boston races, said llancoek has no plans to chal­lenge the rules. 
"What can you do rPally?" he said. "I think there's more amu~emPnt here than anything else. 
"This is absolutely crazy," Steinf~ld said. "The rules sup­posndly wPrn supposPd to makn morP sense of things." 
llonikman said the Intnrna­tional Amateur Athletic FPdera­tion has b1Hm talking about set­ting more uniform standards. 
"It sePms to be a good idea to work toward an intPrnational syst1w1 of world rncords." he said. 

Notre Dame /St. Mary's 
Newsstand Price 

Every day the Chicago Tribune puts the world at your fingertips...with the Midwest's best news writing, sports coverage and business reporting. It's transmitted via satellite to a printing site near you so that you get up-to­the-minute information on global and national events. 
Order now to have the Midwest's best newspaper delivered to your dorm or apartment at 40% off the regular newsstand price! 
Feel the action with Sports. Follow your favorites with the Midwest's most colorful coverage of college, prep and pro sports! Get award-winning action photography, plus expert commentary from Bob Verdi, Bernie Lincicome and Jon Margolis. 
Enjoy Tempo. Every day, enjoy articles about science, arts, literature, current events and interesting people, plus comics, puzzles and the Chicago Tribune crossword puzzle. 
Compare opinions with award-winning columnists. When it comes to forming an opinion, these Chicago Tribune columnists have very definite ideas: Mike Royko, Bob Greene, Ann Landers and Dear Abby. 
Stay on top of the world with national news. Chicago Tribune journalists cover the world with the kind of depth and analysis you just can't get from radio or television. 
Track your future in Business. Complete financial tables and the Midwest's largest business writing staff enable you to make sound decisions on your future-from the career path you follow to the stocks you want to buy. 

Call now to receive the Chicago Tribune at 40°/o off: City News (219) 232-3205 or 1-800-TRIBUNE. Ask for Operator 59. 
Offer expires 15,1990. 

• 
Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Noah, McEnroe advance in Australian Open 
(AP)-Yannick Noah is back in all his glory and threat­ening to crash a party that seemed reserved for the usual big names in tennis. 
Diving and leaping, his dreadlocks flying wildly, Noah's resurgence is sending a buzz through the Australian Open equal to the excitement about the rejuvenation of John McEnroe. 
Noah and McEnroe, two of the most colorful and popular players in tennis, advanced to 
the  third  round  Wednesday  
night  and  moved  closer  to  a  
quarterfinal clash.  

Noah, a soft-spoken 
Frenchman with a powerful Antonitsch 6-1, 6-2, 6-1. year has been attributed in part serve and acrobatic net game, "I like to play against John," to a Cameroon witch doctor's was electrifying in his 7-6 (7-3), Noah said. "When I play bizarre cure for Noah's tendini­6-3, 6-3 victory over aggressive, against·him I try not to look at tis of the knees -a brisk beat­hard-hitting Ronald Agenor of him, he's so beautiful to ing with a panther tail. Haiti. watch." Ralston prefers to credit 
In matches involving seeded Noah, under the tutelage of Noah's hard work on the court players early Thursday, Mark former American star and and good sense in taking care Woodforde of Australia upset Davis Cup coach Dennis of himself off the court. No. 11 Andrei Chesnokov of the Ralston, is playing almost as Ralston also worked with Noah Soviet Union, 6-3, 6-2, 7-5 and well as he did in 1983 when he on his forehand and got him to No. 7 Hana Mandlikova of won his only Grand Slam event, improve his first-serve accu­Australia defeated Cammy the French Open. racy, resulting in a victory last MacGregor of Palos Verdes, The years since then were not week against top-ranked Ivan Calif., 7-6 (8-6). 6-3. always kind to the 29-year-old Lend! en route to a tournament 
McEnroe, his touch and all­Noah as he exited early from victory in Sydney. court game close to where it the majors and fought various "I wasn't really going for the once was, looked no less bril­injuries. big, big serves," Noah said liant in beating Austria's Alex His comeback over the past after the Agenor match. "I was 

Kidder,Peabody 
Will Be on Campus 
University of Notre Dame Monday, January 22, 1990 Upper Lounge University Club 
Presentation Beginning at 7:00pm Reception to Follow 
Second Year MBA Students Interested in Investment Sales 
Kdder, Peabody & Co. is a full-service investment banking and brokerage firm. We are a member of the prestigious General Electric organization-which gives us a measure of stability not enjoyed by many of our competitors. 
We have openings on our National Sales team for Investment Sales Associates. 
If you are an entrepreneur with analytical and sales ability, business savvy, people skills and sales acumen-we can offer you: 
• 
a chance to make a long-term career commitment to a quality fum 

• 
a new state of the art Investment Sales Training Program­the most extensive and sophisticated in the business 

• 
a superior compensation package that includes a competi­tive base and incentives 


Positions exist throughout our 40 branch national network. 
We cordially invite you to attend our presentation and reception. We are eager to discuss what we think you can bring to the firm ... . . . and what you can expect in return. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
just trying for a good percent­age." 
To Agenor and most ob­servers, though, Noah's serve was big enough. In the final set, Noah lost only one point in five service games. In the second set, he lost only three points in four service games. 
McEnroe, a self-proclaimed longshot here, is looking less so every day. 
He sounded gleeful as he re­counted in diabolical detail the demise of his second victim. 
"He became very, very shaky," McEnroe said after the 78-minute mismatch against Antonitsch. 
Ellis 
continued from page 20 
"We went with last year's 
starters in the second half and 
then got things going," Phelps 
said. "We played very well in 
the second half. And against 
Boston College, we played two 
really good halves." 
The Irish downed Boston 
College 80-67 behind the 21 
points of Robinson. Fredrick, 
Tim Singleton, Ellis and 
Jackson also hit double figures. 
LaSalle handed Notre Dame 
its fifth loss of the season 86­
78 as Lionel Simmons and 
Doug Overton scored 27 points 
apiece. The win improved the 
Explorers to 10-1, their only 
loss coming at the hands of 
Loyola-Marymount. 
Against Rutgers Tuesday 
night, Fredrick and Robinson 
turned in good efforts off the 
bench. The score was tied at 27 
at halftime, but the Irish pulled 
away to lead 48-36 and then 
held on for the win. 
Now it's back to the road for 
the showdown in New Orleans, 
the showdown against high­
scoring Chris Jackson and a 
team tabbed by many as one of 
the best in the country. 
"If we can improve on the 
road and cut down on our 
turnovers and cut down on 
other teams getting offensive 
rebounds -that's part of the 
process," Phelps said. 
The process may seem slow 
at times. but it's definitely 
coming. 

~~~·I'M-' u,,~bl'il•cnrnon lllldh~cnulllfon'T 
1"7~ ·Nil~ '<:Ht'lllfl ·l•~no.·ral ·~ Ilk• I nl!t"d \at• on• l"llt>-Plt'•lllcn! ·~ \u•ln~ 
..
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who \\OO!d? 
Tu (lt't pnntt'd rnlurmauun un the n1h: n1 .1 !ret' prt''' and hu\1 it protc:ct' \uur n(lhh or 10 d1-.cu~~ an\ fn:r pre" 1~'-Ut'.ral11tK-Fu·.,• ~m.:nd~nl (cnlt'r a1 l.t«_)().,54:!·1MKl 

For the facts call your local Red cross. or writeo AIDS 
+
American Red Cross ~ 
\\lishingtoo. IX 20006 


page 16 
North Carolina back 
Tar Heels throttle arch-rival Duke 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. lAP) -for a 45-21 advantage. North North Carolina's intense de­Carolina hit 21 of 37 shots for fense and Rick Fox's 19 points 56.8 percent in the first 20 tt~d the Tar lleels to a stunning minutes, yet missed all six free 79-60 victory over eighth­throws it attempted. The Tar ranked Duke Wednesday night Heels made just two of its 12 in the Atlantic Coast Confer­free throws for the game. ence. It took the Tar lleels more 
The Tar lll~els (12-6, 2-1) ap­than three minutes to get their plied pressure from baseline to first score in the second half baselirw, forcing 15 Duke when Fox scored on an alley­turnovers in the first half -oop. Duke went on a 9-2 run, seven by freshman Bobby Hur­sevnn by Christian Laettnnr, but ley. In one stretch. the Blue only cut the gap to 47-30 after Devils made seven trips down­Laettner's free throw with eourt and gave the ball away 15:24 left. six times and missed one shot. The Blue Devils cut the deficit 
Duke (12-3, 3-1) normally down to 67-52 on a 3-pointer makes 51 pPrcent of its field­by Phil Henderson with 6:11 goal attl~mpts. but was held to remaining. but North Carolina ~-for-25 (32 percent) in the iced the game by bringing its first half. North Carolina's de­four corners offense out of fmlsP also kept the Blue Devils deep freeze and running down from scoring for 9:02 while the thfl dock. Tar Heels ran off 16 straight points for a 25-7 lead after Ge­King Rice scored 13 points orge Lynch's short jumper from for North Carolina. Pete Chil­the low post with 7:38 left be­cutt scored 12 points and re­fore halftime. serve Hubert Davis had 10. 
Lynch capped the half with a Laettner scored 18 points, 14 running 35-footer at the buzzer in the second half, for Duke. 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
MUSICIANS PERFORMERS TECHNICIANS 
The Observer 

King Rice and the North Carolina Tar Heels scraped and clawed their way to a 79-60 victory over the Duke Blue Devils in Chapel Hill last night. Rice scored 13 points in the win. 
Merrill Lynch, a leader in the financial services industry is seeking college students with leadership !X)tential to join the Corporate Systems Program. This 14-week Business Applications Training Class provides you with the business and technical knowledge to become a business applications programmer. Throughout the program, there is a strong emphasis not only on developing technical skills, but also on developing leadership skills and the ability to effectively work as p:rrt of a team. 
What We Look For 

This unique program is designed for a select group of individuals with undergradu­ate majors in computer science, engineering, mathematics, management information systems or liberal arts, with a serious interest in pursuing a career in computer technolo­gy and business applications programming. Evaluation of candidates will focus on proven 
-1:J57\leadership skills and superior performance in academic, extracurricular and work envi­ronments. We are looking for motivated individuals with the desire and !X)tential to contribute to our technological push into the 21st century. 
Corporate Systems Progrcun Will be on Campus Jcmuary 29, 1990 to conduct interviews 
Interested students are invited to obtain more information from the Placement Office. 
~Merrill Lynch
A tradition of trust. Merrill Lynch is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. 
BEREA, OHIO: Tuesday, Jan. 9 Baldwin-Wallace College Kulas Musical Ans Building Registration: 2:30 -4:30p.m. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO: Wednesday, Jan. 10 Ohio State University Drake Union 
... 
Registration: 5:00-8:00p.m. DAYTON, OHIO: Thursday, Jan. II Ramada Inn Airpon (Nonh) 4079 Little York Road Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. BOWLING GREEN, OHIO: Friday, Jan. 12 Bowling Green State University 
University Union-Ohio Suite Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. YPSILANTI, MICHIGAN: 
Monday, Jan. 15 Eastern Michigan University McKenny Union Registration: 2:30-4:30 p.m. 
MT. PLEASANT, MICHIGAN: Tuesday, Jan. 16 Central Michigan University Norvall C. Bovee University Center Registration: 2:30 -5:30p.m. 
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN: Wednesday, Jan. 17 University of Michigan Michigan Union ­Anderson Room Registration: 4:00-7:00p.m. 
KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN: Thursday, Jan. 18 Western Michigan University Dalton Center, School of Music 
MUNCIE, INDIANA: Tuesday, Jan. 23 Signature Inn Comer of McGalliard & Bethel Roads Registration: I:30-5:30p.m. 
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA: Wednesday, Jan. 24 Indiana University Indiana Memorial Union­Solarium Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
DECATUR, ILLINOIS: Thursday, Jan. 25 Millikin University Richards Treat University Center Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. 
AKRON, 01110: Monday, Jan. 29 University of Akron Gardner Student Center Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. 
PITTSBURGH, PA.: Tuesday, Jan. 30 Point Park College Studio #4 Registration: 3:00-6:00p.m. 
KENT, OHIO: Wednesday, Jan. 31 Kent State University Student Center-Third Floor Registration: 2:30 -5:30 p.m. ­
SANDUSKY, OHIO: Thursday, Feb. I Cedar Point Park Attractions Office Rehearsal Studios Registration: 10 a.m. -4 p.m. 
For further information contact: Live Shows Auditions P.O. Box 5006 

(Parle at Miller Auditorium) Sandusky, Ohio 44871-8006 Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m. (419)-627-2390 
P.O. Box 5006, Sandusky, Ohio 44871-8006 

Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Trojans to play in Kickoff Classic 
USC will meet Syracuse to begin the 1990 NCAA action 
(AP) -Rose Bowl winner Bo Schembechler's final game ment, his secretary said. Southern California and as the Wolverines' head coach. "We are all delighted to have Eastern independent Syracuse "Playing in the Kickoff the opportunity to play one the will open the 1990 college foot­Classic is a great opportunity nation's finest programs," said ball season in the 8th Annual for us and it will certainly be a Larry Kimball, Syracuse's Kickoff Classic in late August, challenge to go up against such sports information director. organizers said Wednesday. a fine team as Syracuse," said "Southern Cal is one of the 
"This will be an intriguing Smith, who has a 27-8-1 mark finest programs in the country east-west confrontation," said in three years at Southern Cal, and we are looking forward to Robert E. Mulcahy III, chief ex­including a 9-2-1 record last the challenge of playing them." ecutive officer of the New season. "It's not often that USC Both Southern Cal and Jersey Sports and Exposition plays on the East Coast, so Syracuse are guaranteed to re­Authority, the game's host. we're excited about that. It's an ceive a minimum of $550,000 "We are very impressed with attractive matchup and will for playing in the game at the strengths of the teams. provide good exposure for us." Giants Stadium in the New Both universities bring long Syracuse has posted a 29-6-1 Jersey Meadowlands. histories of success to the mark in the past three years Les Unger, the director of game." under Dick MacPherson, includ­college athletics for the sports 
Southern Cal of the Pac-1 0 ing an 8-4 record this past sea­authority, said serious talks and Syracuse also have had re­son that included a 19-18 Peach about playing in the Kickoff cent success, with both appear­Bowl victory over Georgia. The Classic were held with at least ing in three straight bowl Orangemen defeated Louisiana six to eight teams, but organiz­games. State 23-10 in the 1988 Hall of ers wanted a Pac-10 team. 
The Trojans have gone to Fame Bowl and tied Auburn 16-Under the guidelines set up three consecutive Hose Bowls 16 in the 1987 Sugar Bowl. when the Kickoff Classic was under coach Larry Smith, in­MacPherson was in Texas on established, the organizers cluding a 17-10 victory over a recruiting trip and not im­pledged to invite one represen­Michigan earlier this month in mediately available for com-tative from the Big Ten, the Pac-1 0, the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Southeastern Conference, the Southwest Conference, the Big Eight and the Western Athletic Conference, plus two indepen­

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street 
dents, in the first seven years of Mishawaka 
the game. All the conferences except the Pac-1 0 received a bid in those
259-6322 
first s'even years, although or­Hours: 7:30a.m.· 9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
ganizers were granted an ex­tension for the Pac-1 0. 
WASHIER§ ONlY 85¢ 
"We wanted to pick Southern Cal, but if they were unable to 
Tuesday FREE Tide ·in every wash 
play, I'm sure we still would 
Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound 
have picked another Pac-1 0 Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
team," Unger said. USC and Syracuse have Pick-up, wash. dry, fold. deliver played once, with the Trojans 
SAME DAY SERVICE beating the Orangemen 16-0 at the Los Angeles Coliseum in 1924 . 
IABC outbids competition to telecast CFA football action 
(AP) -ABC Sports said CBS and NBC passed at 
scored its first major victory $40 million. Th,e source said in six years on Wednesday both networks evalWJ.ted the when it took the College package at slightly less than Football Association away $33 million a year. from CBS for $210 million "We were not prepared to 
over five seasons. triple the rights fee, which 
ABC will become the only was the price requested by over-the-air network to the CFA and apparently televise college . football agreed to by ABC," CBS starting in 1991. It already Sports president Neal H. has contracts with the Big Pilson said in a statement. Ten and Pacific-1 0 NBC officials did not wish Conferences that run to comment, NBC Sports through the 1994 season. spokesman Kevin Monaghan
For ABC, a network that said. once dominated sports tele­
In addition to the ABC vision, it was the first major deal, The CFA already has a acquisition since Jan. 24, cable contract with ESPN. 1984, when it got rights to which is for $110 million 
the 1988 Winter Olympics over four years, 1991-94. for $309 million. ABC has Capital Cities, ABC's parent,broadcast college football owns 80 percent of ESPN. 
for 24 consecutive seasons. "This was clearly the best 
"There's one network that deal for a variety of rea­will be covering it all," said sons," said David Ogrean,Stephen J. Solomon, the se­assistant executive director 
nior vice president of ABC of the CFA. "There's no get­
Sports. "We think the oppor­ting around that in this tunity for putting together marketplace, the bottom line all of college football is a is money." 
wonderful broadcasting op­All of college football was 
portunity." 
included in one TV package

The CFA, which has 64 sold by the NCAA until June member schools, is com­1984, when the Supremeprised of six Division 1-A 
Court voided it for violating

conferences -the Atlantic 
antitrust laws. In 1991, all Coast, Big Eight, Division teams will be back Southeastern, Southwest and on one network for the first 
Western Athletic -and 20 time since the decision. But 
independents. 
now there will be competi­The CFA has one season tion from cable. remaining on a $64 million, four-year deal with CBS, Soloman said ABC would 
which had an exclusive ne­be showing 25 to 35 gamesgotiation period that ended each year under the CFA and last week. A network source, Big Ten-Pac-1 0 contracts 
who spoke on the condition and that many games would that he not be identified, be televised regionally. 
• 
• • • •
•
• •
• • 
•
• • 

"'Stick With The 
·One You KnoYI'' 

Scotch Scotch 
Post-It

Mounting Wallsaver 
Memo Cubes

Squares 
Tape 
(450 sheets)

$.79 (Removable Poster tape) 
$2.98

$1.95 
Special Hours: 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM Thursday danuary 18, 1990 

Whalers tie Bruins; Isles trip Habs 
(AP) -Kevin Dineen scored with 17 seconds left as the Hartford Whalers rallied to tie the Boston Bruins 5-5 Wednesday night. 
Mikael Andersson, Randy Ladouceur, Scott Young and Pat Verbeek also scored for the Whalers, who are an NHL-best 13-8-2 on the road but only 8­13-2 at the Hartford Civic Center. 
Hay Bourque had two goals and Handy Burridge, Gary Galley and Bobby Carpenter also scored for Boston. Craig Janney added three assists. 
Burridge and Bourque scored goals 1:53 apart early in the third period to give Boston a 5­4 lead. 
Bourque scored a power-play goal at 3:51 of the third period to tie the score at 4. Burridge, who has 20 goals in 29 career games against the Whalers, gave the Bruins the lead at 5:44 when he scored on breakaway. 
But the Whalers, who at one point trailed 3-0, pulled goalie Kay Whitmore and earned the tie when Dineen beat Andy Moog from the slot for his 16th goal of the season -enabling Hartford to avoid a sweep in the home-and-home series. 
The Bruins led 3-0 lead early in the second period, as Janney assisted on goals by Galley, Carpenter and Bourque, before the Whalers rallied, scoring four times within a span of 10:33. 
Andersson seored from be­tween the circles at 6:59 and Ladoueeur tapped in a rebound at !0:07 to bring Hartford within 3-2. Young's blast from the left circle at 15:20 tied the game at 3-3 and Verbeek's tap­in at 17:32 gave Hartford its 4­3lead. 
Galley opened the scoring at 
2:49 on power play with a ris­ing slap shot from the top of the right circle. Carpenter made it 2-0 at 10:15 when he con­verted Janney's pass from the 
I 
2nd set ()f rrints f~ff! 
I I 
I I All week!
I I I I
I .,:,:;: ,.. 
I I 
I':·· 
1: ..
1<·:__ .:·:.··· 
:><·:·· 
I 
•I ••
f' .:"'·.<·:·:::::·:::::· 
I .. . . 
: ·. ·''''··' · · · good 01/22/90-01/26/90 
goal line. 
Bourque, the NHL's top­seoring defenseman, made it 3­0 at 2:14 of the second period when he took a drop pass from Janney, slipped past the Whalers' defense and scored from the right post. 
Isles 6, Habs 3 
David Volek scored two goals Wednesday night as the New York Islanders made it eight wins in a row, the longest streak in the NHL this season, with a 6-3 victory over the Montreal Canadiens. 
Volek snapped a 1-1 tie at 
3:15 of the seeond period and Gerald Diduck beat Patrick Roy with a bad-angled slap shot 13 seconds later as the Islanders moved over the .500 mark for the first time this season and tied New Jersey for the Patrick Division lead. 
Pat LaFontaine, Don Maloney and Hubie McDonough also scored for the Islanders. Shayne Corson had two goals and Mats Naslund also scored for Montreal. 
Hawks 3, Stars 1 
Jacques Cloutier made 25 saves as Blackhawks rebounded from two poor defensive showings to beat the North Stars. 
Steve Larmer, Dirk Graham and Steve Thomas scored for Chicago. Dave Gagner had the North Stars' only goal as the Blackhawks' tightened up de­fensively after allowing 13 goals in losses to Calgary and Toronto. 
The North Stars played with­out Shane Churla and Basil McRae while Chicago played without Wayne Van Dorp. All three were suspended after the brawl prior to Minnesota's last visit to Chicago Stadium on Dec. 28. This time, there were only 13 minor penalties and no fights. 
Oilers 6, Jets 3 

Mark Messier scored three goals and Glenn Anderson had four assists as the Edmonton Oilers downed the Winnipeg Jets 6-3 Wednesday night to move back into first place in the Smythe Division. 
Messier scored twice in the second period and added an­other goal with 1:39 left in the game for his second three-goal game of the season and the 12th of his NHL career. He also set up a goal by Randy Gregg. 
Anderson set up all three of Messier's goals and had an as­sist on Gregg's goal as the Oil­ers moved two points ahead of Calgary. 
Petr Klima, who has been struggling since being traded to Edmonton two months ago, also scored for the Oilers, who won for only the second time in seven games. Defenseman Kevin Lowe scored a short­handed goal into an empty net with 48 seconds left. 
PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 
FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN JAPAN ISRAEL NEW YORK 
International programs are offered for students, teachers and working professionals. Courses include: archaeology, architectural history, art history, ceramics, decorative arts, drawing, fashion, fiber, metal and surface design, graphic design, painting, and photography. Undergraduate and gradu­ate credits are available to qualified students. For more information, please mail the coupon below or call: 
Parsons Office of Special Programs (212) 741-8975 
I I I I 

Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 
I 

66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011 
I I 

Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs. 
Name ___________________________________ 
Address----------------­
City---------State ___ Zip ___ 
Phone ___________________________________ 
CP34 
1 


IDavid Volek scored 2 goals to lead the New York Islanders past the Canadiens last night at the Forum in Montreal. 

·-----------------------------------~ 

Thursday, January 18, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
4 p.m .: "The Church: Its Role and Influence in View of The February 25 Nicaraguan Elections" by Father John Medcalf, author of "A Parish at War-Letters from Nicaragua," Room 121 Law School. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies and Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey Spaghetti w/ Sauce Pork Fried Rice 
More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
IAMERICAN 
f~. 

33 *Hit the brake: 51 Fervency 24 Lively dances infielder 
52 Eyelashes26 A great Greta 35 Equal: Prefix 53 Singer Smith 27 Avifauna 39 Crooks 
from Norfolk 29 Some night 
42 Strength of a 
55 Hibernianspots solution 
30 Trap: Var. 56 Swiss painter 
47 On the way out 31 Swiss canton, 58 Pig's pad 
49 Cloudyformerly 59 Till
50 Peg Wolfing­
32 Biblical land of ton's creator so Cenozoic, e.g. 
treasure 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
ACROSS 
1 Propound 
5 Rudimentary 11 Anguish 14 Mythic sea 
monsters 15 "Spectre de -,"Weber-Fokine ballet 16 Gloucester's 
cape 17"-ldeas" 18 *Fervid: reversal 
=like leftovers 20 Lovers' -­21 Clinic doc 22 *Endures: fails 25 Hence 28 Brunch. e.g. 29 Oust, legally 31 Cattle genus 34 Half of MCIV 36 *Successively: 

hit the hay 37 Pertinent 38 Tweed rule, e.g. 40 WW.II theater 41 *Grew fast: 
outcome 43 Formerly 44 Boxers' stats 45 Fats and waxes 46 Snuggle up 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....,."'"""'"""F-~~ I!"!"P.~~-EE-1 
~. '{tJJ G\l~S \-l~'ft TO
BE.nt.R \ElL 
~()JR !<\OM W 
Sir>.'{ I"' \-\ERE. .a._ND B£ R£~L 
Q\l\U! IF t<\~ ~t<\ F\N.l>S
P\l\ QIJ\ 1\-1£ 
0\J\ A~T' 1\1\S, S\-\£.'Ll
£X\AA i~L£ 
san~. 
Hr>-'lE ~FIT.',---­

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
48Whilom 49 *Close pitch: shower tool 54 Pest in the 

audience 57 A cheese 58 *Naval absence: 
clear port 61 Unemployed 62 Rugged peak 63 Van man 64 Wool knot 65 Still 66 Wright or Brewer 67 Dismal 
DOWN 
1 WW.I soldat 2 Harmonium 
3 Lift of a wave 4 Prize 5 Mideast gp. 

6 Italian dishes, American style 1 A Forsyte 8 Sahl et al. 9 Noted netman 10 Sly glance 11 • Antelope stem a flood 
12 Unit 13 Complete .:.,:+.:+.::~+=-! 19 "-of robins 
-=+=-+==+=-....., 23 Tree with pink flowers 
BILL WATTERSON 




~1-\r>-T "' '&\Jt-~<1\ r '1\{IN.K 't.l£ r:::fr \)~10\lS. SHCM.D 0\~C: L\ffi.E. S\IKKEIIS! INTO ~ \\01tl '1(\-lg£'0 \\\£"( \Jt.ITIL 1\\IS l£~RN TO IS OIJ£R . 
M\SB£.1-\~'1£. 
L\\(E 1\\t>.l ~~ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

.. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

L__ 



Sports
page 20 
Ellis returns to bolster Irish lineup 
But Phelps says his team has yet to meet expectations 
By GREG GUFFEY The Irish came home points to take a commanding Assistant Sports Editor Wednesday for the first time lead. Ellis and Robinson scored since Jan. 2 following Tuesday 18 points each. with Fredrick 
l.aPhonso Ellis is bark for the night's 74-69 victory over ehipping in 13. Notre DamP mf'n's baskPtball Hutgers in the Meadowlands. The winning streak was team. Now, it's just a rnattN of Joe Fredrick scored 1 H points, halted on Jan. 3 in Omaha when getting things to click. Ellis 17 and K1~ith Hobinson 15. Creighton downed Notre Dame 
Ellis, acadPmically inf'ligibiP "They were going to play us by a 77-7 5 eount in overtime. during tlw first semester. re­tough and we knew that," Creighton led by 10 points at turnPd to tlw Irish linPup Phelps said. "It was a game we 53-43 with 8:50 to play in regu­against ButiPr on Df'e. 30 and had to win and we won the lation and then 62-53 with 1:21 helpPd tlwrn to a 4-2 record thing." remaining, but the Irish rallied. that indudPd five road gamf's. Notre Dame began the break They scored 13 points in that Notrn DamP, now H-5, won with a 97-70 vietory over span, including a three-point ganws against Valparaiso and Valparaiso at the Joyce ACC. bomb from Jaekson with just l.afayf'ttn with Ellis still on the The Irish plaeed four playnrs in four seconds lnft that sent the siddirws just bdorn Christmas. doubln figures, including game into the nxtra period. 
"I think it's now thre1~ SPa­Hobinson with 21, freshman The Irish never led in the sons." Notre Damn roaeh Monty Williams with 20, overtime. Creighton boostnd the Digger l'hPips said. "It was a Fredrick with 13 and Jamere lead to 72-66 before Notre season without Ellis. Tlw sec­Jackson with 10. Dame scored four straight ond sPason is now with The Irish followed that game points to makn it 72-70. Down l.al'honso back in tlw lineup. with an H6-71 home win over 77-75 with four seeonds to Then WI' would like to get in the Lafayette the nnxt night. They play, Notre Dame forced a groove wlwre w1~ were against built a 45-29 lead in the first turnover, but a Williams Georgetown and Vanderbilt half, as Williams keyed the jumper hit the rim as time ex­(last y1~ar in thn NCAA tourney). spurt with 12 points. Notre pired. Hobinson scored 16 
"It's almost like we're start­Dame had balanee again -points to lead the team. ing the season again. It's the Fredriek with 20, Williams and Notre Dame found itself beginning of the season for Elmer Bennett with 12 each, down again at Southern l.al'honso, but the other teams Hobinson with 10 and Jamere California, this time 48-38 at have playnd 14 games." Jackson with 9. the half. The Irish bounced 
Notre Dame will get its The four-game homestand back well in the second half. biggest tf'st sinee the return of ended with the 97-65 triumph outscoring the Trojans 48-33 Ellis on Saturday against LSU over the Bulldogs. The Irish to get their first road victory of in Nnw OriPans. Gan111 promot­opened up a 52-36 lead at half­the year. Ellis scored 27 points f'rs hope to attract the largest time. The Bulldogs dosed the to lead the winners. 
LaPhonso Ellis returned from an academic suspension to join the Irishcrowd to ever watch a regular­gap to 60-50, but the Notre

... see ELLIS 1page 15 basketball team on December 30. In his first game of the season Ellis
season college basketball game. Dame ran off 16 of the next 18 rl1mked the ball four times as Notre Dame pounded Butler 97-65. 
ND women host Warriors tonight 
By GREG GUFFEY Marquette. Loyola could never get dosPr 
Assistant Sports Editor The Irish are coming off an than 10 points in the sn<·ond impressive 85-72 win Tuesday half. The Hamblnrs dosPd to 
The Notre Dame women's night over Loyola that improved 78-6H with 2::~ 1 to play in the basketball team will attempt to their reeord to 8-5. Notre game, but thn Irish scon~d win its fourth consecutive Dame plaeed six players in seven consecutivP points to put Midwestern Collegiate double figures, led by Karen the game away. Conference game tonight when Robinson with 16 points. Marquette visits the Joyce ACC. Margaret Nowlin. Lisa Kuhns Notrn Dame gairwd national 
The Irish downed the and Sara Liebscher added 13 attPntion in a 62-61 loss to No. Warriors 87-67 earlier in the points each. 25 Old Dominion. Laura Kubin season in Milwaukee behind the "We're playing prntty well sank a 12-foot jumper with 19 points of Comalita llaysbert. right now," Notre Dame eoaeh thren sneonds to play to giv1~ llaysbert hit six straight field Muffet McGraw said. "We're Old Dominion the victory. goals and three free throws in showing how good of a team Hobinson lnd the Irish attack nine minutes late in the game. we ean be. We feel like we can't with 17 points. All five Notre Dame starters lose any more games in order reached double figures in that to get some notir.e by the The Irish compiled a 2-2 game. (postseason) selection commit-ledger in other games over 
Marquette began the week at tee." semnster brnak. The bn~ak bl'­3-8 and played at Wisconsin Against the Hamblers. Notre gan with a 70-61 loss to Tuesday night. The Warriors Dame boosted a 15-13 lead to Temple in Philadelphia, but the are 2-1 in the MCC, defeating 38-26 at the end of the first Irish bounr.ed baek with a 77­Dayton 74-70 and Xavier 74-half. Kuhns keyed that spurt 63 home win over Vandnrbilt 
Junior guard Karen Robinson will lead the Notre Dame women's hoops 66. Notre Dame has won 12 with three trifectas from way behind the 22 points of team against MCC rival Marquette this evening at the JACC. straight against out on the left side. Haysbert. 
~--~------------------~~--~----~~--------------------------~-----------------, 
Irish rock Buffs in Orange Bowf 
.. 
...but the national champi­
onship was an elusive prize as Miami beat Alabama in the Sugar Bowl and was voted No.1"'by all the major polls. 
Details of the Orang& Bowl vic­tory and a rtJvlew of the 1989 season will appear In a special Irish Extra section of Friday's Observer 







