
VOL. XXIII NO. 93 TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Tricks of the trade 
Jim Paradis, Saint Mary's art chairman, shows students in his ceramics class some of the steps 
involved in making glazes Monday. 
Saint Mary's elections to be held Wednesday 
BY JULIE RYAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's student body elections will be held Wednesday, February 21. 
The campaigning began at noon on Sunday, Feb. 18, and lasts until today. 
Candidates running for student body positions in­troduced themselves and ad­dressed issues about Saint Mary's at "Meet the Candi­dates" night. 
Junior Kathy Schmidt and sophomore Maureen Lowry are running unopposed for Student Body President and Vice-President, respectively. Maggie Belin. a junior, is running for Vice-President of Academic Affairs and College Relations. 
Lisa Catenacci, current student body president, in­troduced the candidates. The ticket of Schmit, Lowry, and Belin gave their opening statement. answered five questions posed by Cate­nacci, gave their closing re­marks, and then answered questions from Christine Gill, Saint Mary's editor for The Observer. 
The slogan of the ticket is "Experience Guides, Dedica­tion Works," because the candidates currently hold student government offices. 
Schmit said that she wants to improve Saint Mary's in three areas: the Catholic community of South Bend, relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's,·a.nd the Saint Mary's community. 
The ticket stressed the strengthening relations be­tween the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women and ex­panding the Office of Minori· <•·• ties, Internatonal. and Non­traditionalStudents, 
Running for Senior Class 
officers  are:  the ticket of  
Lowell  Lehmann,  Jeni  
Racine,  Marjorie  Maley,  
Lauren  Jaworowski;  the  

see ELECTION Jpage 7 
Azeri group leaves legislature session 
MOSCOW (AP) -The entire Azerbaijani delegation to the national legislature stormed out of a session Monday after the Soviet defense minister re­fused to accept blame for deaths in a military crackdown on the uprising in the southern republic, sources said. 
The dramatic walkout by the approximately 15-member del­egation occurred in a closed­door Kremlin session of the Supreme Soviet called to dis­cuss the Azerbaijani-Armenian dispute over Nagorno­Karabakh and ethnic clashes resulting from it. 
Although reporters were barred from the seven-hour session, and it was not televised as most sessions are, two par­ticipants -Vitautas Statulyav­icus of Lithuania and Arkady Murashev of Moscow -gave details in telephone interviews. 
Deputies decided to close the session, chaired by President Mikhail Gorbachev, to reporters because of the sensitive nature of the topic, debate on which has sparked clashes in the past. 
Murashev said the Azerbaija­nis walked out after Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov "insulted the Azerbaijani delegation." According to the deputy, Yazov said that when the Azerbaijani delegates discu~sed victims of the nationalist uprising, they blamed the army. Yazov con­tended that Azerbaijani extrem­ists were to blame. 
ND student attacked outside Campus View 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame student was attacked and robbed outside his residence at Campus View Apartments early Saturday 
morning,  according  to  Sgt.  
Charlie  Feirrell  of  the  St.  
Joseph County Police.  

The male student received a broken nose and jaw, injuries to the mouth and damaged teeth, the police report said. The incident occurred between 
1:30 and 1:45 a.m. 
He is in serious condition at St. Joseph Medical Center, ac­cording to a hospital spokeswoman. 
Police have no suspects at this time. The victim described his attackers as two white males, Feirrell said. 
The attack occurred about 25 feet from the victim's apart­ment, near the breezeway, ac­cording to Off-Campus Senator John Krotzer. 
Five dollars, a wallet and identification were stolen from the student. He had no credit cards, Krotzer said. 
Police said the student was jumped by two men who beat and kicked him in the face and head after pushing him to the ground. The attackers then stole his wallet. 
Krotzer said the victim also received a contusion, which is a bruise on the brain, and a bro­ken cheekbone. 
After the attack the victim crawled to a neighbor's door for help, then went to his own apartment. When Krotzer saw the victim he saw that "there was blood from (his) head to toe," he said. 
The student will remain hos­pitalized for at least a week, Krotzer said. 

ND mock trial team takes 4th in nationals 

By DAVE BRUNER 
News Writer 
DES MOINES, Iowa-The Notre Dame Mock Trial team placed fourth in the National Intercollegiate Mock Trial Tournament held last weekend at Drake University. The eight­member team competed in a field of nearly 90 teams from across the country. 
This was the first year that Notre Dame fielded a team in the six-year-old competition. Before this year no team participating for the first time had ever finished among the top 10 teams. 
Tournament director Mark Smith said he was "surprised by how well some of the new teams had done." He added that it generally takes two years for a new team to reach a competitive level. 
Senior Megan Hines, who or­ganized the team last February, said they had been preparing for the tournament since September. "We didn't know what to expect," said Hines. "We just walked into it blindly. It was an honor and a privilege to participate at all, let alone to come home with a trophy for fourth place." 
Sophomore Amy Cashore re­ceived an outstanding witness award for her role as Gene Pot­ter, a neighbor of the defen­dant. "As a witness I tried to answer questions in a way that would help our team's case. It was more of a team award, since it wouldn't have been pos­sible to win without good inter­action between the witness and the attorneys," she said. 
The team did not lose in its four rounds of competition. Team rankings were deter­mined by the cumulative points received by each student, with the top two teams competing in a final round. Rhodes College of Memphis, Tenn., finished first in the tournament. 
The team consisted of Hines, Cashore, freshman Mike More­land, and seniors Dave Bruner, 
Bob Huston, Karen Lynch, Jim Marks, and Mary Mulvaney. 
This year's case involved the alleged murder of a 13-year old boy by a 'lupohound,' a half­wolf, half-bull mastiff attack dog owned by the defendant. Participating teams were re­quired to prepare attorneys and witnesses for both the prosecution and the defense, al­ternating sides each round. 
Third year law student Dave Cosgrove accompanied the team to Iowa. "We just wanted to do our best and enjoy our­selves," said Cosgrove. He added that Notre Dame finished high because "we had a very balanced team. Most other schools had one or two good team members-we had eight strong people." 
Helping coach the team were Cosgrove, second year law stu­dent Kathy Zelenock and South 
Bend  attorneys  John  Firth,  
Mark  Boveri,  and  Tom  
Brunner.  



Sign me up 
Thfl Observer/Susy Hernandez 

Kathy Bobear, left, and Meg Lakatos sign up for the Lenten Wednesday Lunch Fast. The fast is being sponsored by the Saint Mary's Hunger Coalition. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 


New cigarette puts women in a bad light 
R. J. Reynolds To­bacco Co. would win an Oscar if awards were given to sarcas­tic, condescending marketing campaigns. 
The marketing plan for "Dakota," a new 

cigarette to be tested Monica Yant in April, is far from Business Editor subtle: Reynolds-------­
wants to sell ci­
garettes to women 
it sees as blue-collar American airheads. 
"She's young, she cruises, she thinks tractor pulls are cool," the Associated Press reports of the ideal "Dakota" smoker. 
The "Dakota Girl" also enjoys hot rod shows, tough man competition and drag races for live entertainment, according to the marketing profile. 
Tough man competitions? Reynolds doesn't even let its "Dakota Girl" go to movies and Pizza Hut like the rest of Amer­ica. 
Instead she goes to tough man competi­tions. If that isn't a slap in her face, I don't know what is. 
The "Dakota Girl" likes "Roseanne." Reynolds certainly wouldn't target a ci­garette for a woman who watches "Nightline" or "Nova." 
She doesn't spend spare time reading, be­cause her education abruptly ended after high school. 
Bring work home from the office? Never. "Work is a job, not a career," the profile said. 
I find it hard to believe the public will let Reynolds get away with this attack on the sector of society that is, after all, the majority. 
What's even harder to believe is that Reynolds had the guts to try it again. The Associated Press said that an earlier 

campaign  aiming  cigarettes  called  
"Uptown"  at  blacks  was  halted  due  to  
public disapproval.  
If "Dakota" faces sudden death  as well,  

I'm sure Reynolds will bounce back. Maybe they'll come up with equally tasteless ver­sions for Jews, the handicapped and homo­sexuals. 
Heynolds has guts, I'll admit. Its market­ing department also has an inflated ego and a very poor sen!)e of judgment. Its ideal smoker is a joke, a funny one at that. 
But its campaign isn't a comedy routine, and cigarette smokers won't be laughing when they find out how "cool" Reynolds thinks it is. 
I'm not a smoker, but after reading about the "Dakota Girl," I'd rather eat a cigarette than be seen buying one aimed at someone the manufacturer feels is a low-life societal reject. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-Ih-.e-Obse.. ~70r­

------&.-=Y=-'-' . 
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: 
News Ad Design
Production 
Greg Lucas Val Poletto Wendy Cunningham Paul Pearson Lisa Gunsorek Kristin Costello 
Amy Leroux Anita Covelli Mary Sain 
VIewpoint Accent
Kathy Welsh 
Paige Smoron 
John Cronin 
Alison Cocks 
Systems Gilbert Gomez Graphics
Sports
Cesar Capella Bradford J. Boehm 
Scott Brutocao 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Tuesdav, Feb. 20. 
Lines show nigh temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 40 Yesterday's low: 26 Nation's high: f:J7 
(Bartow and Fort Meyers, FL) Nation's low: -25 
(West Yellowstone, MT) 
Forecast: Sunny and cold today, with a high of 35. Clear 

• and not as cold tonight 
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ with a low of 20 to 25. r-c_o_,L,...o w._:A_R_M s_rA_T._IO_NA_R_Y_______________©::.:.:19::9=0..:..A::.cc::u:...-W::.:.:::;ea::l:.::he::.r:...:,l.:.::.;nc. Mostly sunny and warmer 

L..---------------------------------...1middle 40s. 

Pressure  ~  Wednesday, but clouds  
® © ~  ~ m 0  t.."..j  E---d i) ~ c:=1  increasing in the  
HIGH LOW SHOWERS  RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  afternoon. High in the  

Via Associated Pmss GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Teaching English in Japan (Good Shepherd "Resumes for Technical Jobs," a workshop to Movement) will have a representative at the CSC from 9 assist students in preparing a resume for technical posi­a.m.-4 p.m. on Feb. 20-21. tions, will be conducted tonight at 6:30-7:30 p.m. in the 
Hesburgh Library Lounge. The workshop will be pre­
sented by Kitty Arnold, Director of Career and Placement
Foreign Relations Commission needs juniors in­terested in this position for the 90-91 academic year. If Services. you'd like to learn more about this student government position, call Kara (1825) or Thorn (3207). 
The Saint Mary's justice education program
Attention Government Majors. The first World will present "Peace Peeping Up," the fourth film in the Events Rap Session will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the program's spring series tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Audi­Grace Hall Pit. Professors Francis, Loescher, and Scully torium of Madeleva Hall. A discussion led by Associate will be there to discuss Central America. Questions? Call Professor Ann Clark, chairman of the philosophy depart­Michelle (2542) or Sally (1120). ment, will follow. For information, call 284-4521. 
WORLD 

Heavy snow in eastern Turkey caused six houses A World War II bomb is believed to have exploded in 
to collapse Monday, killing 10 people and injuring 16, Indonesia as four fishermen were pounding on it news reports said. Rescue teams could not reach the Saturday, killing three and leaving one missing, a collapsed houses in Karliova township in Bingo) province newspaper reported Monday. Police officer Abdul Malik because of more than 6 feet of snow that piled up in the said that a villager saw the four pounding on a cylindrical past two days, the provincial governor was quoted as object as he set out fishing. The villager said he had gonetelling the Anatolia news agency. only about 220 yards from the four when a huge 
explosion sent the fishermen flying. 
Rival tribes in Johannesburg, south Africa. battled with spears and knives over grazing rights for _A man fell to his death at Angel Falls, the world's cattle, and 20 people were killed, police said Monday. The htghest waterfall, when he jumped from a helicopter toKobela and Wela tribes raided each other's villages parachute near the water and the chute did not open, the 
Sunday after the groups quarreled over the grazing 
Venpres news agency said Monday. The Venezuelan staterights, police said. The fighting erupted in Natal Province news agency identified the dead man as Jean Marc Boivin 
on the east coast of South Africa. 
39, and said he was a mountain climber from France. ' 
NATIONAL A plaster cast of a pregnant woman's bulging belly, a Painter Norman Rockwell's only known nude unique memento of childbirth, has become the latest thing portrait was bought in Detroit Sunday for $50,000 by a from trend-setting Southern California. "I thought I had Bloomfield, Mich., man. Tom Sullivan said he will meet heard of everything. Now, I know I have," Dr. Arthur with the portrait owner, Jackie Wells, who posed for Wisot, a Torrance obstetrician and gynecologist, said Rockwell in August1958 while a student at Wayne State after hearing about Dr. Stork's Original Pregnant Tummy University. Rockwell gave her the painting after Cast Kit, available by mail-order for $19,95 plus $3 for completing it. 'I'm surprised I got it for that price," said shipping. Sullivan, who said after the auction he was a first-time art buyer. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
ALMANAC 
Closings for February 19, 1990 
On February 20:

The director of DePauw University's 
School of Music has been invited to the White 
e In 1809: The U.S. 
Supreme Court ruled that the

House to hear his music performed before the 
power of the federal govern­

president. David Ott will travel to Washington to Volume in shares 
ment is greater than that of

hear the music he composed performed by the 
166.84 Million 
any individual state.

National Symphony Orchestra in a command 
performance Wednesday. President Bush ordered 
e In 1839: Congress prohib­

the performance to honor National Symphony 
ited dueling in the District of 

Orchestra conductor Mistislav Rostropovich's 
Columbia. 

reinstatement of citizenship in the Soviet Union. ~0.64 
e In 1933: The House of 
Representatives completed con­
S&P Composite .n. 
332.72 v 2.17 
gressional action on an 
Dow Jones Industrials 
amendment to repeal Prohibi­

In an "Urban Stress Test" study conducted 2635.59 ~ 13.96 
tion. 

by Zero Population Growth, Gary, Ind., was the 
e In 1971: The National 

clear cut . . . loser. Gary scored the lowest of all Precious Metals 
Emergency Warning Center in 

cities surveyed in 11 categories relating to Gold -1}-$4.70 to $417.10/ oz. 
Colorado erroneously ordered 

"population-linked social, economic and 
radio and TV stations across
Sliver+ 1.0¢ to $5.34/ oz.

environmental stresses that affect the 
the United States to go off the 

sustainability and quality of life." So the 
Source: AP air. The mistake was not re­
Washington, D.C., group says Gary is the most 
solved for more than 30 min­

stressful place to live in the United States. 
utes. 

~ --~­

Tuesday, February 20, 1990 page 3 
Cheney threatens U.S. exodus of Philippines 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, shunned by Philippine President Corazon Aquino, told Filipino officials Monday that the United States will abandon its bases here if it finds that keep­ing them is too expensive or that Americans are unwelcome. 
As violence was reported in several clashes between leftist protesters and police near U.S. installations, Cheney met for nearly three hours with Defense Minister Fidel Ramos in discus­sions that were described as "very cordial, very forthright." 
Meeting reporters afterward with Ramos, Cheney said the United States "will stay only as long as the Philippine people wish it to say-and only if the terms negotiated are accept­able to both parties." 
At issue in Monday's discus­sions was a $96 million cut Congress made in the Bush administration's request of $360 million to compensate the Philippines for the six bases, which include two of the United States' largest overseas instal­lations, Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base. 
"We recognize there is a shortfall of $96 million over what we had anticipated," Ch­eney said. "I also pointed out that in East Asia, in this part of the world, the United States provided a little over $600 mil­lion, and about $500 million of that comes specifically to the Philippines." 
Cheney has said his discus­sions with Filipino officials did not amount to the beginning of negotiations to extend the base agreement, which expires next year. 
An influential Filipino minor­ity is pressuring Mrs. Aquino not to renew the agreement. In addition, leading Filipino con­gressmen have urged her to postpone those discussions un­til this year's cuts are restored. 
There are some 18,000 U.S. military personnel, plus 20,000 dependents, in the Philippines. 
For his part, Ramos ac­knowledged that the Bush ad­ministration needs congres­sional approval for aid com­mitments but said he had told Cheney that "time is of the essence" in meeting current 
U.S. obligations. The secretary said Ramos had been "very di­rect and very forthright" in presenting his government's position. 
Mrs. Aquino was so upset over the congressional cut that she announced before Cheney began his two-week tour of Asian nations hosting U.S. bases that she would not see him, leaving that task to her defense minister. 

s0 M M E R s ~!IES 
GRAPHICS 
Resumes  Also Available  
25 copies  Posters  
25 cover sheets  Banners  
25 envelopes  Color Copies  
$34.50  High Speed Copying Fax  

One and a half miles north of ND and SMC. 52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-6991 


v Check Us Out! 
APPhoto 

U.S. Defense Secretary Richard Cheney (right) and Philippine Defense Chief Fidel Ramos show their respect to the colors during the traditional reviewing of troops upon Cheney's arrival Monday in Manila. Cheney is on a two-day visit as part of his assessment of American forces in Asia. 
Panel discusses united Germany
By REGIS COCCIA 
Managing Editor 
The reunification of Germany as one nation will have a huge economic and political impact on Europe and the world, a panel of Notre Dame faculty said Monday night. 
The panel, comprised of three Notre Dame professors and a visiting faculty fellow from West Germany, discussed the realities and implications of German reunification. Student government sponsored the dis­cussion as the first of a series of forums in "Eastern Europe Week." 
"I think we're going to have German reunification by the end of this year. It's one of the forces of history," said Donald Kommers, professor of gov­ernment and international studies. 
Kommers, a specialist in con­stitutional law, said that reuni­fication is written into the preamble of West Germany's constitution. "All West German officials and agencies are obli­gated -by law -to strive for a united Germany," he said. 
Kommers said he does not see a united Germany as a 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 




EDUCATION IN 
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
A program arranged by Dean MICHAEL J. LOUX and the Faculty of The College of Arts and Letters 
6:30P.M., Tuesday, February 20, 1990-Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
threat to peace or democracy in 
Europe. 
Jurgen Brauer, of Berlin, West Germany, said that a re­unified Germany would have a tremendous economic impact not only on Europe but on the world. 
West Germany's gross na­tional product totaled more than $1 trillion in 1987, said Brauer, a visiting scholar at the University's Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies. 
"The GNP of a reunified Ger­many would be that of France and Italy combined," he said. "West Germany already is a pillar of the European Eco­nomic Community. It would be­come a major economic power." 
Besides being the world's largest exporter of products, West Germany is the largest trading partner of the Soviet Union, Brauer said. "A reuni­fied Germany would be even more self-sufficient than it al­ready is," he said. 
An independent Germany, without ties to an alliance such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, would raise fears of a strong military threat in the center of Europe, Brauer said. He proposed that Ger­many, if united, remain in NATO, as President George Bush had recommended. 
Professor J. Robert Wegs, chairman of the history de­partment, said he does not worry about West Germany's role in reunification, but added that the move may make East Germany politically unstable. 
"West Germany is striving to be cosmopolitan and demo­cratic. There is no worry about a resurgence of radical right movements. I'm less sure about East Germany," he said. 
Bernard Norling, professor emeritus of history, warned of an increased military threat if Germany reunites. 
"A reunified Germany mean the unification once more of the most efficient and the most ambitious in Europe," Norling said. "If we have German reuni­fication, we ought to have a lot of strings attached to it." 
He pointed to segments of history in which Germany has a dominant and aggressive role, such as during World War II. 
"We must not forget what the Nazis did to Europe and planned to do. Hitler allied with Stalin in 1939, doublecrossed him in 1941 and wasted Russia, killing 20 million Russians," he 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Assistant News Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
said. 

~pa~g~e~4----~----------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~eN~e~r________________________________T~u~e~s~d~ay,February20, 1990 

AP Photo

Ready for takeoff 
The crew for Space Shuttle Mission 36 arrived late Sunday at Kennedy Space Center for preparation for a Thursday launch. L to R: Mission Spl. Pierre Thuot; Pilot John Casper; Mission Spl. David Hilmers; Commander John Creighton; and Mission Spl. Richard Mullane (whose son, Patrick, is a senior at ND). 
Russian cosmonauts end mission 
MOSCOW {AP) -Two cos­monauts, floating out of the clear blue sky onto the glisten­ing snow of the Kazakhstan steppe, ended a 22-week mis­sion Monday that included the first American experiment aboard the space station Mir. 
State-run television broad­cast a recording of the descent module of a Soyuz TM-8 cap­sule, its white parachute cast­ing a shadow in the vast snowy expanse. 
Mission commander Alexan­der Viktorenko and flight engi­neer Alexander Serebrov touched down near Arkalyk in the Kazakhstan republic, 1 ,080 miles southeast of Moscow, the Tass news agency said. 
Viktorenko, 42, and his 45­year-old crewmate were re­ported to be in good health, Tass said. 
The TV report showed the cosmonauts smiling as they sat covered with blankets in the minus 26-degree Fahrenheit temperatures at the remote landing site. They sipped hot drinks as well as champagne on a plane flight later Monday to Star City, the cosmonaut train­ing center near Moscow. 
Viktorenko and Serebrov blasted off Sept. 5 on a mission to Mir that featured dozens of scientific experiments and the successful testing of a "space motorcycle," a one-man vehicle designed for repairing satel­lites, servicing the Buran space shuttle, and rescuing cosmo­nauts in distress. They tested the motorcycle during two of five spacewalks. 
A replacement crew, Anatoly Solovyov and Alexander Ba­landin, flew to the space plat­form Feb. 11 and will remain aboard for about six months to continue the experiments. 
Among the 200 pounds of sci­entific cargo Viktorenko and Serebrov brought back were protein crystals exposed to weightlessness in an American experiment created by Payload Systems, Inc. The company was the first authorized by the U.S. Commerce Department to tly experiments aboard the Soviet space station. 
The crystals, brought to space Dec. 20, will be shipped to the United States and ana­lyzed at the Brookhaven Na­tional Laboratory next month. 
Other research completed by the returning cosmonauts in­cluded experiments in geo­physics, astrophysics, medical biology and biotechnology. 




Israeli rep. supports German unification 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Foreign Minister Moshe Arens has caused a storm with his cau­tious embrace of German reuni­fication. Cabinet ministers de­manded that he be rebuked and newspaper editorials accused him of fostering "a Fourth Re­ich." 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir remained silent Monday in a continuing debate that il­lustrates the dilemma posed for Israel by the prospect of a re­united Germany. 
Israeli leaders cannot afford to alienate West Germany, the staunchest supporter of the Jewish state in the European Community, but they also must consider the emotions of the many Israelis whose relatives were among the 6 million Jews killed by the Nazis. 
"We are still pondering the consequences" of reunification, senior Shamir aide Avi Pazner told The Associated Press on Monday. "The prime minister has concerns about such a pos­sibility, but has not taken a stand opposing it." 
Arens, a Shamir protege in the right-wing Likud bloc, started the trouble last week by saying on a visit to Bonn that he had confidence in the "democratic traditions" of West Germany and viewed ex­tending democracy to East Germany as a "positive step." 
After the criticism began, Arens pointed out that most of his family perished in the Holo­caust. Sunday's edition of the newspaper Maariv quoted Arens, who was born in Uthua­
nia, as saying "If I wasn't for­
eign minister today, my feet 
wouldn't touch German soil." 
Arens suggested, however, that Israel could not afford to disrupt ties with West Germany and noted that Bonn had promised help in blocking fur­ther European Community sanctions against Israel. The sanctions were imposed to protest the treatment of Pales­tinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Before his comments in the West German capital, Arens said in Israel that, if "a united Germany is a democratic Ger­many, a Germany that is fully conscious of the responsibility that it has to the Jewish people ... then I don't think there is a danger to be concerned about." 
The text of the speech was sent to Israeli embassies around the world to serve as a guide for diplomats. 
In the weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday, Environment Minister Roni Milo, a confidant of Shamir, demanded that the government adopt a resolution against German reunification. 
"The generation that experi­enced the Holocaust is still alive," Milo said on army radio. "A united Germany should not be supported by a Jewish state and a Jewish government." 
Milo won support from Com­munications Minister Gad Yaa­cobi of the rival center-left La­bor Party. 
Most newspaper editorials on the subject were critical of Arens. 

Bruno's 
~ 


J14·~$6.oo-FRe-€oELivER-v1 
116" $8.00 with coupon I I 18" $1 0.00 "'limit one Item per pizza I 
LARGE PARTIES (minimum 12 people)
·----------------------­
*All you can eat for $4.00 *Free pop and specials *Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 




289-4625 
· rices rtain to deliveries oniilv•-------• 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

·o 
G 

Senior Formal 1990 
0 

Bid Sales
.G 

Feb. 27 -ND Lafortune 6-9pm 28 -ND LaFortune 6-9pm March 1-SMC LeMans 6-9pm 
*Bid price: $75 per couple 
*Tux fittings *Flower orders *Room arrangements *Dinner seating-5 couples per table 
Wonderful Tonight... 

KE you
"Wf MA ENT'"

THE EV . 

SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: Black Classic ..................... $36.50* Designer Tuxedos ................. $46.50* Shoes ........................... $ 8.50* *Does not include damage waiver fee and applicable tax. 
PAYMENT: 
Personal checks will only be accepted at the time of fitting where a partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We also accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. 
WHEN: 

February 27th, 28th, and March 1, 1990. 
(6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
LaFortune Center, 2nd Floor in the Notre Dame Room on February 27th and 28th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on March 1st. 



-----~-~-------------~------~---~--~---------------------­
Tuesday, February 20, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Irish priest named visiting prof. in romance languages 

Special to The Observer 

Father Gerard Carroll of Longford, Ireland, has been appointed visiting associate professor of Romance lan­guages and literatures and di­rector of the University of Notre Dame's Angers Program, according to Isabel Charles, as­sociate provost and director of foreign study programs. 
Carroll was born in Laugh­duff, County Cavan, and or­dained a priest for the Diocese of Ardagh and Clonmacnois in 1966. He has studied philoso­phy, theology, music and French literature and holds de­grees from Lateran University, the Pontifical Institute of Sa­cred Music in Rome, and Gold­smith's College, London Univer­sity. 
He also holds doctorate de­grees in theology and literature from Trinity College, Dublin. 
Between 1978 and 1986, Car­roll taught in the program of lihPrlll o;;tmiiP'> and the depart­
, •.__ 

When you start your career, there's nothing like initial success. 

-
-
-


-
-
• ® 

Exciting Summer opportunities exist at ffiM! IBM is recruiting summer candidates for openings in Programming and Engineering. 
Meet with IBM Managers 
at our Career Information Day Monday, February 26 LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame Room noon-5pm 
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data sheet/resume and transcript, if available. Dress is casual. 
An equal opportunity employer 
ment of theology at Notre Dame. He spent a year as are­search fellow at the Oriental Institute in Rome· and has served as chaplain to St. Joseph's Hospital in Longford since 1987. 
Carroll is author of several reviews and articles in theolog­ical journals and encyclopedias. He has published an English translation of the works of the 17th century French mystic Claudine Moine and is at work on a book on the spirituality of priesthood and the theological nature of Christian conscious­ness. 
Carroll succeeds Michael Palo, who has directed the Angers Program for the last four years. The program cele­brates its 25th anniversary this academic year. 
Charles also announced the reappointment of Brian Pavlac as visiting professor of history and director of the Innsbruck Program. 
American+ 
Red Cross 
University of Wisconsin Platteville 
0 


Bmphase! in Liberal Arts International Bll'!ine!s 
Courses available inSpanish and in English 
Fluency in Spanish not II!!Juired 
AD courses approved by UW-Pialtl!ville and validated on an official UW-Piatteville transcript 
$3625 per semaler for W!MoMin 6: Minnesota residents. $3875 per Hlllf!!ler for non-residents. 
Costs ioclude Tuition and Fees Room and Boani in Spanish homes Fieldtrips 
AD financial aids apply 
For further information contact Stndy Abroad Programs 308 Warner Hall University of Wi-sln·Piatteville 1University Plaza PlaHmile, WI 538111-3099 
(~)342-1726 
--~~-­

~~------------­
page 6 The Observer · Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
Cantpus Ministry and You 

(?MPUS
--------------------MINISID'­
SEX AND THE SINGLE NOTRE DAME CHRISTIAN 
"Inside this envelope we offer products that are explicitly sexual in their nature and content. These materials are meant for sophisticated adults only. If you might be offended by explicit and frank descriptions of marital aids and sexual novelty items, please discard this package. If on the other hand you like sexual enjoyment and experimentation and feel that consenting adults have the right to explore exciting new avenues of erotic adventure then please open this envelope. Enter a new and sensual world of sexual exploration and enjoyment you never dreamed possible." -Sexually oriented ad 
"The understanding of human sexuality dominant in our culture can, I believe, be described as separatist. By this I mean that the separatist understanding has severed the existential and psychological bond between the life-giving or procreative meaning of human sexuality and its person-uniting, love-giving unitive meaning." -William E. May 
"In human beings, many elements wrestle with one another. Thus, on the one hand, as creatures we experience our limitations in a multitude of ways. On the other, we feel ourselves to be boundless in our desires and summoned to a higher life." -Vatican II 
"Co-dependency is a pattern of painful dependency on compulsive behaviors and on approval from others in an attempt to find safety, self-worth and identity." ­
U.S. Journal of Addictions 
In discussing Christian sexual morality, we are not going to be discussing what we must and must not do. Rather, we are going to be discussing the Christian (specifically Catholic) view of who we can be at our best and how certain sexual express­ions are or are not consistent with that. If we understand who we are at the core, as discussed in Part II of this series, then we can reflect on what codes we live by when we are who we are at our best. 
Before discussing that, however, it is important to reiterate what has been said in other parts of this series. We are not born at our most developed level; we grow to it (or not), influenced by a variety of factors including choice, capability, environment and circumstance. 
In Christian understanding, we are created as sexual beings -male and female. We live out our existence as either, giving physical expression to who God is. Thus, when we live at our best and love at our best, we live and love in ways that reflect the sacred -the ways God lives and loves. 
We don't always live and love at our best, but we grow towards doing so, if we are committed to growing as Christians. We don't have to be Christians; we are invited to be. Jesus presents us with an integral plan in accord with the meaning of creation, and we either respond to it or we don't. Jesus invites us to share in the relationship he has with God. We are free to accept that invitation or not. Christianity is not presented as a judgmental imposition but as an invitation to fulfillment. If we don't accept it, we are told, we will not fully be all we are meant to be and will not be living a fully moral life. 
Thus, Christian morality is not a series of statements about what we have to do but of who we can be at our best. Morality does not tell us what we must do and not do; it invites us to be fully who we are. Sin is the word used for the condition of not being who we fully are. Reconcil­iation invites us beyond sin-beyond not being who we fully are. We grow to who we fully are. We don't start out there. We move from and through sin toward holiness; toward morality. The Church's moral position on anything is a state­ment on who we would be at our best. A sexual morality is a statement or series of statements of who we would be at our sexual best. Our invit­ation is to grow to being precisely that. 
The sexually explicit ad referred to above presents the logical conclusion of some types of current sexual morality. According to these ways of thinking, at our best we would "keep on Iovin' all night long", capable of eternal orgasm, whether alone or with other(s). Sexual climax is presented as being an end in itself. How one gets to that point is totally irrelevant, as long as it is 
PART III 

achieved and the process is totally enjoyable. Use your hand or a doll or a machine or another person -none of that matters, as long as it is good for you. Then, have a cigarette. 
Masturbation, pornography, orgy, promiscuity ­all are moral neutrals. Orgasm is the end purpose of our sexual being (the sellers might not be totally secure in their view -they promise that all materials ordered are sent in absolutely anonymous packaging!) In this view, human sexuality is objectified, depersonalized and purported to have the same moral worth as ice cream. This certainly contrasts with the earlier stated Christian view that our sexuality is the essence of who we are! 
A major consideration in the Christian community's determination of what is and is not moral is whether or not something points beyond itself or aids in achieving possibilities beyond itself. Everything that is good points beyond it­self: life; death; bread; wine; relationships; pain and suffering; sex. All are indicators of something beyond the physical realities they express. The highest forms of Christian morality are those that see and acknowledge the sacred that exists beyond the immediate. In the context of Christianity, to see and to live sexuality as an end is not moral, any more than it is moral for a Christian to see death as an end. That which is moral is that which is sacred -that which points beyond itself to a reflection of the life of God. That which does not is immoral. 
Sexuality is most sacred and moral when it is an embodiment of mutual love, totally faithful, a permanent commitment, sacramental (ie: a phys­ical expression of God's presence) and capable of pointing beyond itself by being open to co-creation. Sexual activity or expression that does not contain all these criteria is not considered to be in accord with the highest forms of sexual morality. 
Catholic sexual morality, in particular, recognizes marriage and celibacy as having the fullest potential to reflect the most sacred aspects of our sexuality. The most sacred form of physical sexual expression in Christian morality is marriage. Marriage is a relationship of fidelity, commitment and permanence that is reflective of God's covenant with humanity. Marriage includes a physical expression of permanent love which is incarnational-which expresses and reflects God's love in physical terms. The sexual union of a couple who have publicly proclaimed their commitment to each other as their way of being before each other who they are before God certainly points beyond the couple themselves. Two become one flesh, and the possibility of continuity in time through openness to new creation is acted upon. 
Celibacy is another form of sexual expression which can reflect the most sacred aspects of sex: who we are at our best; who we are with God. The mystery of celibacy is that it gives witness to the belief that a human being can mirror the sacredness of the spousal relationship of marriage with the entire body of Christ. It contains all of the essential aspects of marriage: fidelity, perm­anence and commitment, with total openness to the possibility of the creation of new life in the human body of Christ. Celibates do not love genitaly, but do love sexually: they love through themselves beyond themselves. 
Pre-and extra-marital genital expression and homosexual genital expression -even in love relationships -have traditionally been considered not to be fully sacred or moral because they have been considered to lack one or more of the visible signs of commitment, permanence and fidelity and I or because they inherently lack the capability of fully pointing beyond themselves through co­creation. It must be pointed out, though, that to what degree these sexual activities are immoral and those engaged in them are responsible for immorality is a matter of personal conscience mediated within the Christian community (eg: confessional counseling,etc.) 
Masturbation has traditionally been considered sinful by Roman Catholic Church officials. As a regular form of sexual expression it is not fully sacred precisely because of its isolated and anonymous nature. While many Catholic moral theologians recognize the potential developmental appro-priateness of masturbation in adolescence and young adulthood, most agree wit~ the Vatican that it can never be regarded as the Ideal end point of sexual integration and development. Again, the role and function of this form of sexual expression in one's life is best mediated with a trusted spiritual advisor. 

More clearly and inherently in the realm of immoral sexual expression are such involvements as casual and recreational sex, sexual abuse, prostitution, pornography, bestiality, voyeurism, rape and other forms of expression which violate the depths of relationship to which Christians are called. If a particular form of sexual expression does not point beyond itself, it cannot be moral. The less it points beyond itself, the less moral it is. 
So: if we are the single Notre Dame Christian, what we do while we wait? If we are not married and have not committed ourselves to a life of celibacy,what are we to do with our sexual energies and drives? The answer might seem glib: we wait. And in the waiting we learn about our sexuality as a force that leads us beyond ourselves to the sacred and mediate it with those who share our Christian commitment and who model healthy sexual development. 
It is highly probable that we will not easily live in perfect conformity to our highest possib­ilities, yearnings and callings. When we don't, that doesn't mean we are bad. We are always forgiven, meaning we are always invited to move through and beyond where we are to where we can be. 
This can be greatly assisted in a process of spiritual direction or confession. If we do bring our developing sexuality to confession, however, it is important to know that we do so not to have any judgement lifted but to reconcile our emerging sexuality with the rest of our Christian lives -to integrate as fully as possible our sexual develop­ment into our Christian development. It can be done. Good luck, and try to enjoy rather than fear the process. 
BrOJ$t to you U@ by£ &a ot CAmpus Ministry ana Me &::Jer 
Tuesday, February 20, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Lecturer focuses on history of ~oral tradition 
By DAN O'GRADY 
News Writer 

"The common folk are left out of the history books," ac­cording to Ben Wilson, an as­sociate professor of black­American Studies from Western Michigan University. We must study the oral tradition of communities in order to under­stand the simple folk, he said. 
Many communities relied on the information from the "griot," or local historian, who had knowledge of numerous home remedies that could cure various ailments, Wilson said, adding that this was the basis of oral traditions. 
Sour pickles were said to cause the mumps. Cobwebs were believed to heal small cuts. Egg whites were thought to increase men's sex drive. 
Butter applied to a young girl's chest produced large breasts. Egg yokes rubbed into the scalp produced thick hair. A popular shampoo manufacturer capitalized on this idea and made Alberto V0-5, Wilson said. 
Wilson spoke at length about Idlewild, a resort in southwest­ern Michigan. The resort area was called "Chicago's back­yard." The name of Idlewild was created because the resort was known to be a place where the men were idle and the women were wild. 
Wilson spoke as a part of Black History Month, spon­sored by the Office of Minority Student Affairs. He is also in­volved in Afro-American re­search in the southwestern re­gion of Michigan. 


Israelis raid Palestinian bases 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Is­stroyed and all the aircraft re­guerrillas tried to evacuate rael raided Palestinian bases turned safely from the first at­their casualties. near the port of Sidon Monday, tack, about 35 miles north of The raids brought to six the saying the bases were used to Israel's border. There was no number of Israeli air strikes 
organize attacks on Israeli immediate confirmation from against guerrilla targets in Le­troops. One person was killed Israel of the second attack. banon this year. The last was and three were wounded in two Police said that in the first Feb. 16 against a Shiite Moslem air raids, Lebanese police said. assault, four Israeli fighter­Amal militia base in al-Hajjah 
In Jerusalem, the Israeli mili­bombers fired eight rockets at in southern Lebanon. tary said its warplanes at­the installations. The guerrillas tacked bases used by the immediately closed all roads The Moscow-oriented Demo­Democratic Front for the Lib­leading to the bases. cratic Front and terrorist Abu eration of Palestine, a Marxist Nidal's Fatah-Revolutionary PLO faction, near the village .of 30 minutes later, a police Council regularly attack targets Kafr Jarah, four miles east of spokesman said, another for­in Israel's self-designated Sidon. mation of Israeli fighter­"security zone" in southern Le­
It said the bases were de-bombers hit the bases as the banon. 
• !i::J 11[!30\90/i::J[!, (;®IMJ~[[)l{. 11®[!3 ~~[!30®(!0~ (P~@(P[!,~ 
BY OSCA. WILDIE 
TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 

3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 

l!l G~ Election 
continued from page 1 
ticket of Maureen Lillis, Kath­leen McDonough, Anne Feeley, Nora Melchert; and the ticket of Karen McNamara, Kelly Townsend, Jenni Leone, and Joan De Rose. 
Greer Gilliland, Sarah Boyle, Lesile Tedrow, and Joelle Pouliout are running unop­posed for Junior Class officers. 
Running for Sophomore Class officers are: the ticket of Katie Damm, Martha Marzolf, Kris­ten Price, Caroline Molnar; and the ticket of Colleen Rhattigan, Tina Carrara, Grethen Bath, and Lisa Minichillo. · 
"I would have liked to have seen more than one student body ticket running," said Catenacci, "but I'm happy and confident in the abilities of the people who are running for all offices." 
Think of your
-
best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 


------------~----~-----------------~-~~-~-------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, February 20, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager._ ...... Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor ......Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor. .. ...Theresa Kelly Production Manager.. .......... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .John Blasi Systems Mgr ..... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ...Eric Bailey OTS Director ........ Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor ..... Christine Gill Controller .. . .............. Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the administration of Sllher mstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Saint Mary's elections not focused on issues 
Political campaigns are usually tense, competitive events with opponents stressing experience, dedication and issues. 
This year at Saint Mary's, however, the race for stu­dent body officers is far from competitive. There is only one ticket running for the positions of Student Body President, Vice President of Academic Affairs and Vice President of Student Affairs. 
This election is not about candidates' qualifications, but the lack of candidates. The competency of Kathy Schmidt, Maggie Belin and Maureen Lowry is not be­ing questioned. What does need to be questioned is why there is only one ticket running. 
There may not be any single answer. but the student government and the entire student body must look for some explanation and contemplate the possible conse­quences. 
Student government is run by students, for the stu­dents. The opportunity is open to anyone who wishes to become involved to do so. What is holding people back from becoming involved? 
If this situation is a matter of student apathy to­ward the government, there is a severe problem at the College. Past elections and the multiple ticket races for class officers this year would indicate that this is not the problem. 
A possibility that should also be considered is whether those involved in student government have become a limited group, with few new people besides the freshmen becoming involved each year. 
For this election, there is a chance that with only one ticket running for the student body officers, voter turnout will be decreased, which in turn could be detrimental to the class officer elections being voted on at the same time. 
Answers must be sought from the students them­selves. Each student has a right and a responsibility to be an active member of the College community. Students cannot take the "someone else will do it" at­titude in this or any other situation and expect results. 
This year's election at Saint Mary's may not be as exciting as past years', but it should make an indelible impression on the students. Student government is the forum students have to voice opinions, ideas. com­plaints and try and improve their College. The reason, or reasons, behind the single ticket needs to be uncov­ered and resolved to make the single ticket election a thing of the past. 
DOONESBURY 
UM... 8C-FORE fAit 8R&AI< HeR&, UJRI) HUNK-RA I fOR WHOM I CHANNel-, JWUW UK& TO aJM/rleNT ON OUR 5Elf-&57l£M awt­M/93/a-1'5 FINAl­
/ 


LETTERS 

Some religious truths exceed human reason and logic 
Dear Editor: 
Michael Barbosa's February 6th letter about the "implausibility" of Medjugorje crudely insults sacred tenets of Christianity, including the Blessed Mother and the impor­tance of revelation. 

The Vatican has yet to declare Medjugorje as valid, but flippantly comparing the chil­dren's claims to Shirley MacLaine's report of previous lives is tasteless and disrespect­ful. Barbosa asks, "Don't you think that the Mother of Our Savior could have come up with something a little more original and specific [than 'Peace')?" After a quick look at our world (starting with China, South Africa, Israel, and the United States) I wonder what message could be more important. Obviously, such a suggestion isn't original -Jesus Christ preached it two thousand years ago. 
Mr. Barbosa calls for a "reasonable religion," free of "crackpot revelational schemes." While reason is im­portant to our faith, revelation is equally important. As St. Thomas Aquinas writes, "Some truths about God exceed all the ability of the human reason." A triune God is not logical, nor is it common sense that Jesus rose from the dead and as­cended into Heaven. 
Revelations, whether they are made to reasonable American adults or to a few "Eastern European adolescents," are the foundation of half of our Christian beliefs. In the words of St. Thomas, "It is the acme of stupidity for a man to sus­pect as false what is divinely revealed through the ministry of the angels, simply because it cannot be investigated by rea­son." Revelations are a reality. 
Peace should be our priority, regardless of Medjugorje's va­lidity. The sarcastic comments made in Barbosa's letter are a slap in the face of Christianity. 
Rex J. Rempel John T. Fry St. Edward's Hall Feb. 6, 1990 
Cartoon stereotypes subject all to damaging ideas 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to recent cartoons by Jay Hosler. Specifically, I am referring to the ones depicting the stereotypical female from the stereotypical male perspective. I realize there has been at least one cartoon depicting the stereotypical male from the stereotypical female perspec­tive. While this is just as unde­sirable, it is not as common. 
All too often females every­where are subjected to sexism disguised as a humorous joke or cartoon. In many instances, these jokes and cartoons are subtle in design, so to protest them would seem inappropri­ate. More than likely, the per­son protesting would be labeled a feminist and dismissed. Re­gardless of whether the person is a feminist. asserting him­self/herself is a basic human right. 
The responses to the cartoons which I have mentioned have largely been ones of amuse­ment. After all, cartoons are in­tended to be humorous mo­ments of distraction. In fact, this may be how Mr. Hosler en­lowing them to affect our visioned the impact of his car­judgement. Subtle "humorous" toons. It is important, however, cartoons, such as the ones to recognize that cartoons are drawn by Mr. Hosler, may often powerful instruments make us laugh, but we need to used to convey ideas. This is il­start working actively within lustrated by the prevalence of ourselves and as a community political cartoons. to stop laughing and start 
Stereotypes in general, not thinking. just those having to do with Liz Holmes gender, are dangerous. We are Off-Campus all subject to them and we all Saint Mary's College must work actively against al-Feb. 18, 1990 
Black contributions need recognition 
Dear Editor: other accomplishments our 
I am writing to express my people have shared with their outrage at the comments made white counterparts? We have by Father Theodore Hesburgh had pioneers in such areas as during his invocation at Sunday science, medicine, education, night's Gospel Choir concert. politics, and the arts. Fr. Hesburgh's unnecessary speech left an ugly scar on African-Americans are not a what was an otherwise beauti­limited people. We are a multi­ful evening of song, spirituality, talented, multi-faceted force, and togetherness. and we keep getting stronger. 
It's about time the white com­How dare he suggest that the munity realizes that fact. black community's most no­
table contributions to the world Carita E. Fletcher are jazz and gospel music? Ptlsquerilla West What about the hundreds of Feb. 5, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
/A/HArP H& 5AY?' 
I 

' Boredom is a vital problem for the moralist, since at least half of the sins of mankind are caused by the fear of it.' 
Bertrand Russell 
-

Accent
Tuesday, February 20, 1990 page 9 

The experiences of a sophomore bring the 
violence closer to home. 
KATHLEEN CARRETTA 
accent writer 
ad you ever had 
sexual intercourse 
before?" "No." 
"How many 
attackers were 

''H 
there?" "Two." 

"Had you been drinking?" 
"No." 
"Okay, now tell me what you 
remember." 
"... the emergency room 
ceiling." 
"God, that's a funny thing to say you remember after the nightmare I had gone through just a few hours earlier," recalls Bridget, who as a college sophomore last year was raped by two men she knew. 
It started as a typical Satur­day night. Bridget had planned to attend a lot of parties, and left ahead of her friends so she could get to an off-campus party early. She was comfort­able with the guys who lived in the yellow house with the big front porch on University Av­enue. They were her friends. The guys welcomed her with open arms. "I was their buddy; we always hung out. I consid­ered them good friends. They made me smile a lot," said Bridget. 
The beer flowed more freely as the night wore on, and as it grew later the rooms became hotter and more stuffy. "It was too crowded to even get a drink," recalls Bridget. "You couldn't even get through to where the beer was, and every­one seemed so drunk." 
Todd and Jim, two friends of Bridget's, were hungry and they asked Bridget to join them in the kitchen for something to eat. She followed them. She saw the kitchen as being a refuge from the too-crowded party. "The kitchen had been locked, so no one was in there. It was cool and I needed a breather anyway," said Bridget. As she entered the kitchen, they locked the door behind her. 
Todd grabbed her with such force that as he threw her onto to the kitchen table, she re­members hearing the echo of her head hitting the cold metal. Jim then used one of his hands to grab her wrists together above her head as his free hand covered her face. Todd grabbed her pants as she kicked to fight him off. Before she knew it the buttons had popped off her button-flies, her shirt had been ripped off, and Todd was forc­ing himself on her. 
"I didn't know what to do ... my body went limp ... I couldn't grasp what was happening," Bridget recalls. She lay on the metal table staring at the wa­ter-staine,i ceiling as they con­tinued. "It was like I was a prisoner in my own body watching this violent thing happen from the outside," she said, explaining her numbness. 
"It was my worst dream coming true and I had no control to stop it. I couldn't wake up." 
Bridget, a charismatic person admired by her peers, was be­coming a statistic in one of so­ciety's most violent acts. 
One out of every six college women has been, or will be raped by someone known to her. Investigations show that between 1982 and 1985, 15 percent of women at American colleges and universities had been raped. More than half of all college women have re­ported experiencing some form of sexual aggression during their academic career-from someone they knew. 
Another survey showed that one in every 15 college males has admitted to forcing a woman they know into having sexual intercourse. 
Bridget's case is categorized as date or acquaintance rape, which is forced sexual inter­course with a man whom the woman knows. A study of 200 college sophomore and junior women reported that 25 per­cent had been forced to have sex against their will by some­one they knew. 

Just as Todd's body lifted off hers and Bridget thought her nightmare was about to end, Jim appeared above her. She screamed but no one seemed to hear. She sat up quickly, but Jim pushed her back down. "Oh no, not Jim, he's my best friend. Why? Why him? Why me?" Bridget remembers thinking. This time Jim's mouth covered hers as he clenched her wrists above her head. "I felt I was dead, that this was the way I was going to spend an eternity," she recalled. "I didn't think you could feel what I felt and still be alive." 
Bridget felt Jim withdraw himself. Her whole body went numb. Bridget sat up slowly this time watching the two men tuck in their shirts and zip their pants. "How can they just put themselves back together?" she thought. "Don't they realize what they just did to me?" They unlocked the kitchen door and wandered back into the party. In a daze she walked out the back door and wandered home where her roommate drove her to the hospital. There the inter­rogations and examinations continued. 
"It's strange that I remember something like the hospital ceiling being so high, right after I've felt like I've hit rock bottom," Bridget says. 
"Were there any witnesses?" "No." "Had they been drinking?" "Yes." 
Statistics show 77 percent of the time, the men involved in a date rape have been drinking; 55 percent of the time the women involved have been drinking. "Unfortunately, alco­hol seems to play a major role in most incidences," says Richard Chlebek, head of Saint Mary's Security. 
Bridget's story is different­only because it was reported. Only 5 percent of date rapes are reported to the police, mostly because many women somehow blame themselves. "Just because it goes unre­ported doesn't mean it doesn't happen here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," says Chle­bek. "Girls go to the residence director, professors, counselors 
or friends instead of the authorities. We have to respect the girls' wishes and keep it 
confidential. Most of the time 
the administration is not in­volved because they do not know," he said. 

Women at colleges are espe­cially vulnerable to date rape for a lot of reasons. They are at risk emotionally, away from home for the first time and often unsure of how to handle or protect themselves in new si­tuations. Usually, women's so­cial circles at college expand greatly and quickly. They may not yet have developed the skill to balance independence and security. 
Meanwhile, college men are also insecure and seeking con­firmation of their "manhood" via sexual behavior. An invita­tion back to a woman's room may be interpreted by him as an invitation to be intimate, when in fact if may just be a friendly invitation to spend time together. The signals get crossed. Some men see women as their prey, and won't stop until they "get" a trophy-an­other notch in the belt. Bridget was trusting, and, some have said, naive in following them 

into the kitchen. But they were 
her friends; she didn't know what was going to happen. 
Chlebek anticipates an in­crease in reported date rapes because "of public awareness and knowledge. It's okay now," he explains, "but before, vic­tims were either ashamed or felt they asked for it. The vic­tims should also know that when prosecuting, the defense can not dwell on your past his­tory." 
Bridget, like all other date rape victims, will have to live with this memory her entire life. The rapes occurred one year ago and she is still seeing a psychiatrist once a week. She feels she's come a long way; she was seeing one every day for the first five months after the rape. Looking to her future, she hopes she will eventually be able to trust men well enough to be friends with them again. 
The charges, though, were dropped against Todd and Jim due to a legality. And statistics show that most rapists rape again. 
Editor's note: This is a true story. The names have been changed to protect the identities ofthose involved. 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
--Connecticut edges Friars in OT 
STORRS, Conn. (AP)-Nadav Henefeld hit a 3-pointer with two seconds left in overtime Monday to give sixth-ranked Connecticut a 75-72 Big East victory over Providence. 
Eric Murdock, who forced the overtime by making a short jump shot to tie the game 63-63 with four seconds left in regu­lation, scored all nine of Providence's overtime points, including a 3-pointer with 50 seconds left to tie it 72-72. 
Connecticut (23-4, 1 0-3) held the ball for one shot, and with two seconds left on the 45-sec­ond clock, Tate George found Henefeld at the top of the key for an open jump shot. 
The victory moved the Huskies ahead of Georgetown (9-3) for first place in the Big East and tied a school record for victories in a season. UConn won 23 games in 1953-54 and 1964-65. 
Chris Smith led the Huskies with 17 points, including five in overtime. George added 16, Scott Burrell 12 and Henefeld, a freshman from Israel, had 10 points, nine rebounds and four steals. 
Murdock came off the bench to lead all scorers with 21 points. Carlton Screen and Quinton Burton added 12 each for the Friars (14-9, 7-7). 
The Friars never led in· the second half and trailed 56-44 with 8:05 left, but took advan­tage of poor Connecticut foul shooting to get back in the game. 
Purdue 72, Indiana 49 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP)­Chuckie White scored all 12 of his points in the first half and Stephen Scheffler added 18 points to lead ninth-ranked Purdue in a 72-49 rout of No. 25 Indiana Monday night as the Boilermakers maintained sole possession of the Big Ten lead. 
It was Purdue's biggest mar­gin of victory over its arch ri­vals since a 120-76 decision in 1969, and the outcome might have been more one-sided if Purdue had not cleared its bench with five minutes to play. 
Purdue (19-4, 11-2) opened a one-game lead over Michigan State as it swept the Hoosiers (16-7, 6-7) for the first time since 1985. 
White, averaging only 7.8 points, scored Purdue's final six points of the opening half to give the Boilermakers their biggest lead of the first half at 38-21 with 42 seconds remain­ing in the period. 

Holiday lockout quiet 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. (AP)-City Hall was closed, the Chamber of Commerce offices were open. 
Bank employees enjoyed a long weekend, school kids attended classes as usual. 
Stores, even the barber­shops, were open for busi­ness. But'Chain O'Lakes Park was unusually quiet. 
George Washington and Abraham Lincoln were barely remembered Monday as only a small percentage of Winter Haven observed Presidents' Day, a national holiday. 
The Red Sox offices at Fenway Park in Boston were closed. So was the team's spring headquarters in Winter Haven. 
Like other major league training camps, .Chain O'Lakes Park was shut down because of baseball's labor dispute-delaying the open­ing of the Red Sox' 25th year in central Florida. 
Third baseman Wade Boggs, a five-time American League batting champion, and shortstop Jody Reed worked out near their homes at the University of South Florida in Tampa, about 60 miles from Winter Haven. 
But the field at Chain O'Lakes was empty. Gates were open, but doors to the administration building and the clubhouse were locked. 
Fans, young and old, vis­ited the ballpark, making brief inspections, then re­turning to their cars quietly and driving away. 
The Observer accepts class1f1eds every bus1ness day I rom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at th& Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All class1fleds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 

Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red pinstripe. If you don't want me to go to a 2nd interview in my boxers, call Tom at 234·972B. Reward 
A PAIR OF WOMEN'S GLOVES 
Found on the walkway near North Dining hall on Saturday, February 17, in the morning. They look like they belong to somebody's mother from JPW. If you can describe them, they are yours. Call x3311. 
MISSING 

Whoever took my walkman from the SMC dining hall could you please return it. It was a gift, please just turn it into dining hall lost and found and no questions will be asked 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST 10 DAYSIII 
Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1,400 Cost: Zero Investment 

Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (B00)932-052B/1 (B00)950-B472, ext. 10 
TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7-4082 

Attention Class of 93' The FCC is sponsoring a T -shirt design contest. Present entries to your FCC dorm rep. Prize: $10.00 in quarters and one free T-shirt. Deadline: Next Wed,21. 
?? Call Joe Wilson X1802 
Dan Walter 
X1061 

MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available In Student Activities Office. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 2B9-1743. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277·7406 
For a hot tip on where 
to find a good time Call647-0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotlne 

LOST/FOUND 
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI An antique ring with a green square stone; lost on Feb. 14 possibly In south dining hall. Great sentimental value. REWARDI Call Deb at x3829 LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET WIND ID AND NY LICENSE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA X1268. ITS 3 WEEKS TO MY 21ST !!!1!!!!!1 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify 
Found: Men's ring outside 
South Dining Hall. Call David 
x.3233 
WANTED 

RIDE NEEded.TO nEW jERSEy.4a GirL&hERbroTher#2B45502 
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B­
340. 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
ATTENTION -EARN MONEY 

READING BOOKS! $32,000/year 
income potential. Details. (1) 602­
B3B-BBB5 Ext. Bk 6262. 
HELP! I need a ride to Ft.Wayne 
Thurs. evening(2-22) or Fri 
morning(2-23). 
Julie 37B9 
EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER 

OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor 
at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern 
Pennsylvania, 21/2 hours-NYC. Co-ed 6/23-B/21. Salary, travel allowance and room and board. Option-pre-camp work starting 6/1 0. Warm, fun family atmosphere. Specialists for all sports, watertront, camping, computers, arts. Campus 
Interviews March 23, 1 990 1 0-5. Write Box B23, Lynbrook, N.Y. 
11563 or call 516-559-4562 

Models wanted for Advanced Hair Cutting Class during the week. For more information call Cosima's 277-1B75 
Apple Computer is now accepting applications for the campus position of student representative. Responsibilities include marketing and some technical. Prefer sophomores and juniors. Please send resume to: 
Apple Computer 6133 N. River Road Rosemont, IL 6001B Attn: Bill Duff 
FOR SALE 
SKIS 
OLIN870'S 
TYROUA BINDINGS 
$150 
X4980 
GUITAR FOR SALEIIIIIII GIBSON Epiphone Strat Copy Like New -Black on WMe $150.00 or blo call Michael at x2259 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood,dishwasher CALL 232 -8256 
Is It True...Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts I 1­70B-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call ND Dept. of Comm. &Theatre 239-7054 
Round-trip Airtare anywhere 
in Continental U.S. $100 
Call #3457 for more info. 
19B2 Volkswagen Rabbit 
4 door, air cond; $600 
Call Chris @1690 
TYPEWRITER-$75; SHORT­
WAVE RADI0-$60; 2B7-2B34 
1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000 
loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy 
Bumper/Hitch. $5,BOO or B/0. 
271-B016. 
Plane tx to Denver 
pertect for Spring Break! 
leave Sat 3/1 0 return 
Sat 3/17 GOOD PRICE 
call #4825 
FOR SALE 

-YAMAHA FG-405 ACOUSTIC GUITAR W/CASE $1BO OR BEST OFFER. -DEAN MARKLEY ACOUSTIC PICK-UP $50 -ROCKMAN SOLOIST HEADPHONE AMPLIFIER $65 CALL DAVE 2320 OR 2321 
HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL 
YEAR. 
FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 
BDRM, WiD. CLOSE TO ND. 
COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­
6010. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
TICKETS 

Helpll need 2 student tickets and oneGA for the Georgia Tech game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
SILLY JOEL tixl2 for Apri124 in Chicago call now x1322 
I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT 502-582-1920. 
NEED GEORGIA TECH TIX, ST. & GA. CALL JOANIE x3851 
••••••••••••••••••••••••Desparatel y need two Missouri 8-ba/1 tickets. Call Kristen at #2670 
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x 
233-6582 
I need some Georgia Tech tickets 
for my little brothers .. Please call 
Kelly at *49B5 
Dad wants to see a good b-ball team; Missouri I He's willing to pay mucho to those who will sell 2GA's and 2st tix. Call Mike @3646 
Need 4 Mizzou Tix-GAorSTU 
$$$$$Call 277-7260$$$$$$ 
I need GA TECH tix #1511 
Mom & Dad are coming & they want tix to Missouri & G Tech Call Jeff X3555 
4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs for 
sale.272-6306 
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ PLEASE CALL CHRIS 2B3 407B 
PERSONALS 
Parrot Heads Forever !II 
HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­8445. 
GRAND OPENING! 
FEB.23 AT GRACE HALL 
THE COFFEEHOUSEI 
THE COFFEEHOUSEI 
THE COFFEEHOUSE! 
GEOFF COURTNEY 
LISA KECKLER 
Thanks for all your help with the 
JPW reception. We 
couldn't have done it without 
you I The London Program 
LYNN-Sorry you didn't get receive this on Valentine's Day, but I LOVE YOUIII! 
RFC 
Hey Julie B. 
you were a great waitress 
atJPWI 
(admirer) J.G. 
hiag 
RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has 
rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. 
Kevin Whelan GuessWhol Irs Cathleen Thanks for the call 

T. Weav is coming!! 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 
Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
ADOPTION 
Physician and wife, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded message. (219) 625-4205. 
SOPHOMORES Ill 
Are you ready for Advanced 
Registration on March 30th ? 
Have you selected your 
major? 

If you answered no, consider 
registering for the CAREER/ 
MAJOR DECISION MAKING 
WORKSHOP starting the week 
of February 19th at the 
University Counseling Center. 
Call 239-7336 to register or 
for more information. 
READ EXODUS 22:1 B 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:1B 
I need a ride to Daytona for Spring Break Colin x4057 
I NEED A RIDE TO EASTERN PENNSILVANIA FOR 3-10 BREAK steve-1723 
I AM HIS 

I need 3 tickets for the 
Missouri game on March 3 
Call me at 283-27B5 
Jamere, 

Wishing you all life's best. 
Happy 21st B-Day! 
~ 
Mookie, 

I Love You I Happy 21st B-Dayl 
Dina 
TIM*TIM*TIM*TIM: Happy Birthday from some friends in Farley 
Chris B (as in BOY)-Are you wearing clean underwear or haven't you showered yet today? Have a nice day anyway! Susan 
SPRING BREAK 
DAYTONA 
$139 rm. only $229 w. trans. high quality accommadations 
call Todd 1-B00-265-1799 
Guess who turned 21 on Sun? Ann-Marie Hickey!! Too bad about the Physic test... but I know Sunny wants you to alter your hormone levels tonight! You will not be 
F. Free any longer!! The Goddess of Light and Beauty will have her revenge. 
Steve Godino-have the Dominicans given you your robe? 
CLUE #1 
She's a blonde, green-eyed beauty...
.......................... 
TIM "Salman Rushdie" Rogers is God. Viva Rogers! THIS IS NOT NAZI GERMANY! ND Women=Jesse Helms 
Brady Bunch Generation admit it you are part of it!!!! 
Buy your tix!during events in AUGUSTA starting todayll 
5$$5$$$5$$ includes the dancing, the prizes, and oh yeah, you have to be 21, so you figure out what else is going to be there!! 
LOOK FOR US IN LeMANs Tues. and Wed. to buy your tix questions\feellike talking to someone cute: call Nancy@5309 
TOP 10 PLACES AT U ol M if you're under 19 1o. Mary Markley 
9. Michigan Union 
B. "The Grad" 
7. Briarwood 
6. Brown Jug 
5. Angelo's 
4. Delta Upsilon 
3. Heidelberg 
2. Law Quad 
1. The Diag 
Top Ten quotes from the Mock Trial Tournament: 
10. The proof is in the pudding 
9. "It's right to do the right thing, ...right?" "Objection I Calls for speculation ..." 
B. Objection: leading ... "But Your Honor, it's crossl") 
7. And she just sat there on the house. 
6. We'd like to use a podium... "Objection I" 
5. If you guys don't quit, I'm gonna let my hair down and shake. 
4. A line was drawn in the sand. 
3. He was being stupid & I didn't want him to be stupid. 2.1'm slippery. 
1. Gimme somemore malice. 
SUMMER ,lOBS COUNSELORS. BOYS CAlM'. W.MASS.!GIAI.S CNir. MAINE. TOP SALARY. ~UNORY. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST lO\IE KIOS AND HAVE SKU IH ONE OF THE FOUOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY. ARTS&CRN'TS, BASEBAll. BASKETBALL,SICYCUNG. CHEEALEAOING, DANCE, DRAMA. DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBAll. GOLF. GUITAR, GYM'IASTICS, HOCKEY. HORSEBACK. KARATE LACROSSE. NATURE. NURSES. PHOTOGRAPHY. PIANO, RADIO, ROCKETRY, ROPES. SALBOAROING SAILING, SCUBA. SOCCER, TENNIS, TRACK, W.S.I.. WATERSKI, WEIGHTS. WCXlD 
STOI' BY FOR AN NTERVEW ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD FROM 11 :OOAM-8:00PM IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT UNION. DOOLEY ROOM (M37 
'. 
The Observer page 11 
Missouri ousts Kansas for No. 1 

(AP)-Missouri is No. 1, again at the expense of Kansas. 
The Tigers returned to the top spot in The Associated Press college basketball poll on Monday following a week in which they again beat the Jayhawks and knocked them out of the No. 1 ranking. 
Missouri (24-2), second last week, beat Kansas and Oklahoma in Big Eight Conference games last week and garnered 61 1/2 first-place votes and 1,596 1/2 points from 
the  nationwide  panel  of  
sportswriters  and  broadcast­ 
ers.  

The Jayhawks (25-2), two­time losers to Missouri, ended their second two-week run as No. 1 with half a first-place vote and 1,510 1/2 points. Missouri and Kansas both have games at Oklahoma this week. The Sooners, ranked lOth this week, have a 43-game home­court winning streak. 
Duke (22-4) beat Stetson, East Carolina and Wake Forest 

(AP)-Louisiana Tech lost its unanimous status but not its No. 1 ranking in the Associated Press women's basketball poll. 
One voter, who cast a first­place vote for Louisiana Tech last week when the school from Ruston, La., was an unanimous pick, this week went for Stanford (22-1) as the best. 
The Techsters (23-0) col­lected 1,648 points in the bal­loting by a panel of 66 women's coaches. 
The next 11 teams remained unchanged in the rankings an­nounced Monday. 
Also, Arkansas (19-3) became last week and moved from sixth to third with 1,384 points, just one more point than UNLV (22­4), which also jumped three spots from a week ago. The Runnin' Rebels beat two ranked teams in their three victories last week-New Mexico State and Arizona. 
Georgetown (20-3), received one first-place and fell two places to fifth after a loss to Providence. La Salle (22-1), which received the other first­place vote, was 14th. 
Connecticut (22-4) followed the Hoyas in sixth with 1,127 points, while Michigan (19-5) was seventh with 1,088 points. 
Georgia Tech (19-4) was eighth with 1,042 points, 19 more than Purdue (18-4) and 44 more than Oklahoma (19-4), which rounded out the Top Ten. 
The Top Ten comes from just five conferences. The Big Eight has the top two teams and Oklahoma, while the Atlantic Coast Conference (Duke and Georgia Tech), Big East 
(Georgetown and Connecticut) 
and Big Ten (Michigan and 
Purdue) have two each. UNLV 
plays in the Big West. 
Syracuse, fourth last week, tumbled to 11th after losses to Villanova and Notre Dame. The Orangemen were followed by Louisiana State, Arkansas, La Salle, Michigan State, Louisville, Oregon State, Minnesota, and Illinois and Xavier, Ohio, which tied for 19th. 
Arizona was in the first of the final five spots, followed by Loyola Marymount, Clemson, New Mexico State and Indiana. 
Clemson (20-5) makes its first appearance in the rank­ings since the final poll of the 1986-87 season. The Tigers in­creased their winning streak to five last week with victories over North Carolina State and Furman. 
Indiana (16-6) returned to the rankings after a one-week absence with a 118-71 rout of Iowa. 
Louisiana Tech loses a vote, not top spot 
the fifth team to break into the rankings since the season be­gan, and the lOlst overall since the rankings began 14 years ago. 
The Razorbacks, whose only Southwest Conference loss was to Texas, moved into No. 25. Mississippi, which returned last week for the first time in two months, dropped out after losses to unranked Memphis State and No. 11 Auburn. 
Nevada-Las Vegas (24-1) was second with 1,556 points, while Stanford beat Southern Cal and UCLA to hold third with 1,525 points. 


No. 4 Tennessee (21-4), which is in position to finish first in the Southeastern Conference tprough a tiebreaker, received 1,452 points. The Vols, the host for the NCAA women's Final Four, are at home this week to Vanderbilt and Alabama. 
Washington (21-2) won at Oregon State and Oregon to stay even with Stanford atop the Pac-1 0 and fifth in the poll with 1,369 points. 
Texas (20-3) won three Southwest Conference games to stay sixth with 1,332 points. Georgia (22-3) beat then-No. 19 South Carolina at home. 
Molitor 
•
rece1ves big salary 
NEW YORK (AP) -Paul 
Molitor became baseball's ninth 
$3 million player Monday when 
he agreed to a $9.1 million, 
three-year contract with the 
Milwaukee Brewers. 
Molitor, whose contract has 
the seventh-highest avera~ 
annual value in baseball hl_;­
tory, will get a $1 million sign­
ing bonus, $2.1 million in 1990, 
$2.9 million in 1991 and $3.1 
Attention Gov't. majors. Do you have questions on these or other issues in CENTRAL AMERICA? Come and discuss them with Prof. Francis, Prof. Loescher & Prof. Scully at the Pi Sigma Alpha's first WORLD EVENTS RAP SESSION! 
TONIGHT!! 7:00 PM GRACE HALL PIT 
QUESTIONS -MICHELLE X2542, SALLY X1120 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 22 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
'IIEsday, Feh 20, 1990 
7:30pm MinPur]nse Room (CSC) 
Lecture: "Lithuania: Is Independence Possible?" 
Mr. VIctor Nlkl$, 
W1shlngton, DC, Branch Manager of the Uthuanlan Information Center 
WedrESday, Feh 21, 1990 
7:00):m 
Mongomery Theaer, 
LaFortune Student Center 
Panel Discussion: 
"Creating a Democracy 
in Hungary" 
Mr. Mlklol Simon, Graduate Student Mr. Gabor Forrai, Graduate Student Ms. Kar.Nn Fabian. Graduate Student Prof. ThaDdore 8. lvanvs. l"rofessor EmamiJ1t, Govt. and lnt'l Studies 


IN EASTERN EUROPE 
F.E.E.D. M.E. 
Fabulous Eastern European Dinher: Meal and Entertainment -Dinner and Polka Dance! 
Saturday, February 24, 1990 
6:30pm 
North Dining Hall, North Wing 
• Reservations Required: Call 239 -7668 • 

'Ilnnsday, Feh 22, 1990 7:00pm 
Mongom!l)' 1belRr; 
LaFortune Student Center 
Panel Discussion: 
"Solidarity and the Future of Poland: After the Euphoria" 
Prof. Andrza{ Wslltcltl, 
O'Neil Chairman, History Mr. Msrok Szopsky, Graduate Student Prot. Jacsi< K. Furdyn., 
Professor, PhysicO 
Prof. Donald T. Crflr:tl/ow, 
Associate Professor. Htatory 
TBA 
Panel Discussion/Follow Up: 

"What do the issues in EastP-.:. Europe mean to students as members of the ND community, 
and as citizens of a nation?" 
1 Observer, Scholastic, 
Common Sense, Dialogue reporters who covered the events (Yes, undergradsl) 

million in 1992. 
He will get half of the signing bonus immediately and the other $500,000 on Feb. 15, 1991, deferred at 10 1/4 per­cent interest. 
The 33-year-old Molitor had filed for $3.25 million in salary arbitration and the Brewers of­fered $2.6 million. He batted .315 last season, when he made $1.75 million, including $350,000 in bonuses. 
Also settling Monday was outfielder Jim Eisenreich of Kansas City, who agreed to a one-year contract for $475,000, a raise of $355,000. 
Eisenreich, who led the Royals last season with a .293 average, 33 doubles and 27 stolen bases, had asked $899,000 in arbitration and the Royals had offered $375,000. 
Chicago Cubs shortstop Shawon Dunston won his case Monday and will make $1.25 million in 1990, a raise of $700,000. Dunston, who batted .278 last season with nine home runs and 60 runs batted in, had been offered $925,000. 
Arbitrator  Stephen Goldberg  
heard the  case  on  Friday in  
Chicago.  


. ·-· ----------~-­
r---~~----..........~~--~----------------------~~---------------------.------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
Syracuse flaw: poor perimeter shooting 
Three-point rule seen as a complete victory by founder 

SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP)-Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim has taught clinics on how to foil zone defenses so he knows there is no strategem that can help his team out of its current plight. 
"We haven't been shooting the ball well all year against zones. We've struggled against it," Boeheim said after watching Notre Dame exploit his team's poor outside shooting in a 66­65 loss Saturday. 
"That's the thing we've been looking at and working at in practice to see if we can attack and play better against zones. But ... it comes down to you have to make some shots," said Boeheim. whose squad plays Boston College Tuesday night. 
Syracuse (18-5) couldn't do that for most of the game against the Irish. Although it was Elmer Bennett's 3­point shot at the buzzer that provided Notre Dame's winning points, the key to the Irish upset was the zone defense Coach Digger Phelps used to take away the Orangemen's inside game. 
"We were going to live with them 
Syracuse Sports Information taking the outside shot," said Phelps. Jim Boeheim recognizes the outside "We kept our zone tight and kept shooting problems of the Orangemen. them on the perimeter," said Notre 
SPHINGFIELD. Mass. (APl­The father of collegn basket­ball's 3-point shot is ecstatic at the number of 1 00-point games teams are tossing up this sea­son. 
"We've put the shooter back into thn game," said Dr. Edward S. Steitz, chief inter­preter for the NCAA's rules committee. 
It was Steitz who brought the 3-point shot to college ball in the 1986-87 season in hopes of boosting scoring and atten­dance. 
"It's aecomplished everything the Hules Committee wanted," said Steitz of Springfield College. "It's certainly in­creased scoring. But it's also opened up the game by bringing 
back the good outside shooter...---------..------------­
And that's helped minimize 
rough post play and potential fights. When we put it in scor­ing was declining and so was attendance. It's brought back interest and excitement. 
"The game had become bor­ing. Before all excellent players needed was strength an quick­ness. Now they need to be able to shoot from outside. 
"The dunk is no longer bas­ketball's home run, the 3-point shot is." 
With Loyola Marymount av­eraging nearly 130 points a game midway through the sea­son, and Oklahoma, U.S. International and Louisiana State not far behind, the NCAA's scoring books are regularly being rewritten this season. 
"The last two seasons have been unbelievable," said Gary Johnson, assistant statistics coordinator for the NCAA. "I write the scoring updates in my notebooks in red and there's an awful lot of red." 
So far, the top point output this year was 289, on Feb. 3, when LSU beat Loyola Marymount 148-141 in over­time. Oklahoma scored the
most points this year with its 
~IF voruJ~\frE GOlf nr~ T~rE~ WrE w~~lf ~lf ~ 
0 0 0 ~ 

There are o~ in cash prizes to the winners of the ~ ~ ~ ~ 
March 29 ~ 
NIGHTCLUB

To audition for the show please apply at the Student Activities office b FEBRUARY 28. 
173-101 rout of U.S. International. The record was set last season when Loyola de­feated U.S. International 181­150. 
Johnson said he didn't have an exact count on how many times teams had scored more than 100 points this season. but it's "way up." 
"What the Rules Committee is interested in is maintaining that delicate balance between offense and defense." Steitz said. 
While he acknowledged there's little time for defense when a game approaches 300­points, he maintained the statistics show that in the past five seasons. coaches have 
WEEKEND DISCERNMENT EXPERIENCE 
Friday, March 2 7:00pm Saturday, March 3 
9:00pm 
Moreau Seminary adjacent to Notre Dame campus 
For those studnets who wish to come together to learn more about discerning an interest in religious life and priesthood. 
Contact: Fr.John Conley, CSC Holy Cross Fathers & Brothers Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
~ 

..____________________lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._. 
TALENT SHOW ~ ~
1\E; ~­

0 ~· §. 0 ~ 
\.__) 0 5D en 
> 
~ 
learned to stop the 3-point shot. 
Although about one out of ev­ery four field goals attempted during the first half of this sea­son was a 3-pointer (in 1986­87 it was one out of every six). shooting percentages had dropped from 38.4 percent in 1986-87 to 36.4. 
"I have no doubt that there will be changes eventually," Steitz said. 
Steitz has asked coaches about moving the 3-point line back nine inches from the cur­rent 19 feet, nine inches to con­form to Olympic rules. also looking at moving the line back two or four feet. 
"But how can you say 19-9 is Dame center Keith Robinson. "They like the transition game, but our zone threw them out of their rhythm. They're not a great outside shooting team." 

That's no secret. 

As a team, the Orangemen are shooting 29 percent from 3-point range and not much better inside the bonus arc unless they are within 10 feet of the basket. Only three of Syracuse's top eight players are shoot­ing better than 50 percent from the field-and all three are front-line play­ers. Stephen Thompson, Derrick Coleman and LeRon Ellis. 
Providence is the only team to defeat Syracuse this season by playing strictly man-to-man defense. Villanova has twice upset Syracuse using zone defenses. Connecticut mixed defenses, but used primarily zones to thwart the Orangemen. 
Notre Dame learned the lesson well. using a 2-3 and a 1-3-1 zone against Syracuse. At one point in the first half. Syracuse failed to score against the Irish zone for nearly six minutes. The Orangemen managed only two baskets 
too short, when the shooting percentages are going down," Steitz said. "It's been the posi-· tion of the Rules Committee to make no radical or significant changes without research or statistics to back them up. And from all we can see there's nothing out of balance or out of proportion now. 
is now accepting applications for the 
1990-91 GENERAL MANAGER 
Pick up applications in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. All majors are welcome to apply. 
DEADliNE: 
Monday, February 26, 1990 • by 5:00pm Questions? Call Molly at 239-8040 
ADWORKS 
in the first 8 1-2 minutes of th'-second half. "We had pretty good jump shots we just didn't make anything. Really there 
was no way to get it inside their zone," said Boeheim. 
"We're just struggling shooting the ball from the outside, and when that happens people are just going to go back further and further," he said. 
Against Notre Dame, Syracuse's back court players were a combined 13 of 38 from the field, or 34 percent. Freshman point guard Michael Edwards missed 13 of his 16 shots, even though Notre Dame left him un­covered. 
"He's got to take some shots out there, maybe he took a couple too many, but when nobody guards you it's tough not to take those shots." said the Syracuse coach. 
Uncharacteristically, Hoeheim called on reserves Tony Scott and Michael Hopkins to get some shooters on the floor. Scott, who entered the game av­eraging about 12 minutes per contest. played 23 minutes and scornd eight points. 
"When we put in the 3­pointer 60 pereent of the coaches opposed it. But at the end of the first year 81 percent were in favor of it and that number has increased with ev­ery passing year." 
"The 1980s will go down in history as the time of the most radical rule changes." 
Tuesday, February 20, 1990 The Observer 
page 13 
Buster soap opera continues; Trump, King latest players 
NEW YORK (AP)-James Feb. 11 probably has caused "Buster" Douglas finds himself the biggest repercussions in the a VIP at a luxurious new hotel-fight game in terms of media casino in Las Vegas and says, reaction than at any time since "I can't believe all this is hap-Cassius Clay stopped Sonny pening. It's really unbeliev-Liston in 1964 and announced able." to the world that he was 
The conqueror of Mike Tyson Muhammad Ali, a disciple of was talking about his sudden Elijah Muhammad of the fame and the attention it has Nation of Islam. brought. The cast of characters in 
As for the wheeling and deal-boxing's latest melodrama: ing swirling about the new Douglas and his manager, heavyweight champion's head, John Johnson; No. 1 contender well, that's not unbelievable, Evander Holyfield and his man-but it is unusual, even by box-ager Ken Sanders and pro-ing's standards, in the intense moter Dan Duva; Tyson and his media scrutiny it has received. promoter Don King, who also 
Douglas' shocking 10th-says he's Douglas' promoter, round knockout of the seem-casino-hotel biggies Steve Wynn ingly invincible Tyson in Tokyo of Las Vegas and billionaire Donald Trump of Atlantic City, N.J. 
The plots: 
Tyson wants a rematch, but Douglas wants Evander Holyfield, and it appears that's who the champion's first de­fense will be against. 
Douglas wants to fight in September, but Holyfield wants it in June, when he had been scheduled to challenge Tyson at the Atlantic City Convention Center under the banner of Trump's Taj Mahal. Trump wants Douglas-Holyfield. Of course, so does Wynn, who is currently hosting Douglas at his hotel-casino. 
"With all respect to John Johnson and Buster Douglas, 
Daytona winner: who is this guy? 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) tire and knocked him out of the -Derrike Cope? You've got to lead. be kidding. Cope dodged Earnhardt's 
That has been the general re-momentarily weaving car and action, both inside and out of dashed off to victory. the racing community, to "I know you guys are stunned Sunday's improbable Daytona yourself," said Cope. "You 500 victory by the 31-year-old know we're not a real big name from Spanaway, Wash. in this sport, but (car-owner) 
Cope's victory came in a race Bob Whitcomb and (crew chieO that had virtually etched Dale Buddy Parrott are two very Earnhardt's name into the dedicated individuals and I'll Daytona record books until the tell you they gave me the oppor­last mile and a half. tunity of a lifetime." 
Cope, whose best finish was Whitcomb's team nearly sixth in 66 previous NASCAR folded in 1989 as a search for Winston Cup stock car starts, sponsorship proved difficult. was among the top 10 the en-"They said, 'Go win the tire race and running second Daytona 500 and we'll talk.' " through the first turn on the fi-Whitcomb said. "Yeah, just go nal lap at 2.5-mile oval at and win the Daytona 500." Daytona International So they did. Speedway. But the question is: Who are 
But Earnhardt, leader of 155 Derrike Cope and Bob of the first 199 laps, ran over a Whitcomb? piece of somebody else's ''I'm sure our winning sur­transmission in turn two of the prises a lot of people in the final la that cut his stands and in the but I don't think it comes as any surprise to the people in the garages," Whitcomb said. 
Neil Bonnett reflected the view of most of the drivers when he said, "It's great for Derrike. He was there all day plugging away at it. In racing, when the opportunity presents itself, you cash in. He sure did." 
Earnhardt said, "Cope ran a good race. He was running sec­ond and sitting there poised for the win, but he couldn't get by me. I still can't believe it hap­pened." 
Neither can anyone else. 
Cope never intended to drive a race car. He was an aspiring baseball catcher in 197 8 with a scholarship at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash. His hero was Cincinnati's Hall of Fame catcher Johnny Bench. 
Then he blew out his right knee when his spikes caught in the turf on a throw. 
they're the champion and have the right to decide when and where they'll fight," Duva said Monday from his office at West Paterson, N.J. "I just hope they'll listen to my side. My side is, from a promotional and marketing point, June is much better than September." 
A subplot is a courtroom drama. 
King, unavailable for com­ment Monday, intends to be a part of Douglas' career. Who Holyfield fights is up to him. 
The promoter said earlier, "But I will be involved because I . am his promoter, and I'll be more involved because I have a contractual commitment with 
him." 

"After I got hurt, my dad wanted me to go into racing," Cope said. "My brother was in it. He didn't force me into it, but my dad told me whatever it is that you do, be the best there is at it. I knew that wasn't go­ing to happen in baseball." 
Cope's father, Donald, was in the racing engine business and aoro top fueld drag racer. 
Derrike drove in his first race 
Douglas and Johnson say they want nothing to do with King because of the promoter's active role in getting the World Boxing Council and World Boxing Association to suspend Douglas' victory over Tyson. Both organizations quickly backed down. 
King said that by insisting Douglas won unfairly by get­ting a long count in the eighth round he was just trying to get the WBC and WBA to order an immediate rematch. It ap­peared, however, at a news conference in Tokyo several hours after the fight that King was seeking the bout be de­clared a no-contest or even that the outcome be reversed. 
in 1979 and began driving for his father in 1980. He ran stock cars from the beginning. 
"They were big cars, the kind you could run in Winston West," the younger Cope said. "I was meant to drive a race car," he added. "Everything happens for a reason. It was my right knee that I hurt, the throttle one, the one I have to keep down." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's lnterhall basketball coverage will appear in Wednesday's Observer. 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in the Great Hall of O'Shag. The fee is $5. 
Cycling Club will meet at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday in 204 O'Shag. 
Students interested in trying out for cheerleader or leprechaun should meet at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the football auditorium. 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1990 

Belles take 4th place at Invitational 
By COLLEEN KRENZER 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swim team, coming off of its most successful season under Head Coach Dennis Cooper, brought home a fourth place finish from the Midwest Invitational in Milwaukee this past weekend. 
The Belles received out­standing performances from three of the team members. Carrie Cummins, ranked fourth in the NAJA in the 1­meter diving, set a new school record in the 3-meter diving event. 
Sophomore • Michelle Col­burn qualified for the NAJA Nationals in the 100-yard backstroke and the 200-yard freestyle. Freshman Jennifer Banahy also made the na­tional cuts, along with setting a new school record in the 200-yard breast­stroke. 
In all, seven swimmers will represent Saint Mary's in the NAJA Nationals, to be held in Canton, Ohio on March 8, 9 and 10. Toni Olivieri, co­captain Kathleen Golski, Bethany Thompson and Chris Smiggen will be com­peting along with Cummins, Colburn and Banahy. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

The World's Longest-Running Erotic Stage Musical Comedy 
"THE CHILDREN OF THE ORIGINAL AUDIENCES ARE I«:JoN COMING TO SEE "OHI CALCUTIA•" AND THEIR CHILDREN DOUBTLESS WILL roo: 
FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1990 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM $20.50-$15.50 RESERVED VISA/MC: 284-9190 
Direct from New York ­The Farewell Tour. 
Oi.~! 
For m.turw •udlences only 
Men's interhall basketball playoffs get started 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The first round of the 1990 men's Interhall playoffs came to a thunderous conclusion, as Cavanaugh A trumped Morrissey A2 46-33 and Fisher A thumped Sorin A 51-36 in A­League action, while Dillon B1 trounced Flanner B2 54-34 and Off-Campus B tripped Keenan B1 46-44 in the B-League. 
Cavanaugh A, who must now face Morrissey Al in the Final Four of the A-League playoffs, is riding a four-game winning streak, which includes inspiring victories over Grace A, Zahm A, and Morrissey A2. 
"The team has been playing well," observed Cavanaugh coach Rob McLaughlin. "We struggled against Morrissey A2, and they led 19-16 at the half. We played sloppily, and we couldn't get many good shots. But we came out fired up in the second half, caused some turnovers, and converted our free throws down the stretch. 
"Fortunately, we've been playing with consistency when it counts. More importantly, we have been playing as a team. No one player has stood out over the whole season-who­ever becomes high-scorer really depends on the game." 
As far as the game against Morrissey Al is concerned, Cavanaugh remains cool and optimistic. "As long as we don't beat ourselves, we can play with them," said McLaughlin. 
Morrissey A1, captained by Kevin Keyes, is the top seed in the bracket. 
"The whole season, we've been running and trying to get the ball up the court in a hurry," said Keyes, sketching out the Morrissey game plan. "But really, we play as a team. We've had a different star each team, and everyone contributes. 
"Also, we're happy to be in the playoffs. All our players re­turned from last year, so it would have been a letdown to have not made the playoffs. Hopefully, our luck will last a couple more games." 
In the other A-League con­test, Fisher A prevailed thanks to premium performances from Frank Becker and Jeff Pethick. 
"We just played a good game. It wasn't our best game of the season, but we played well enough to win," explained Fisher A captain Todd Wagenblast. 
Fisher A must now contend with Stanford A, who received a bye in the first round. Yet the feeling with Fisher A, aside from excitement over being in the playoffs, is that they are capable of shooting their way to the championship game. 

"We have to contain Stanford's big men, and if we are able to do that, we should be all right," added Wagenblast. 
Stanford A, the top-seeded team in its bracket, also has a game plan to which it must ad­here. 
"Fisher looks tough, and we know we can't afford to make any mistakes against them-we need to contain them. We're just going to go out and play as a team, then we'll see what happens," stated Stanford A captain Ray Flannery. 
Meanwhile, in B-League play­off action last night, Stanford B2 squared off with Dillon B 1, Sorin B dueled Morrissey B, St. Ed's B met Off-Campus B, and Grace B3 skirmished with Flanner 81. The A-League championship game will take place in the Pit, on Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m., immedi· ately after the condusion of the B-League championship game, which tips off at 2 p.m. 
Demons 
continued from page 16 
NOTES -Joe Fredrick needs just seven points to become the 32nd player in Irish history to surpass 1,000 career points.. .Keith Robinson has 967 career points...Notre Dame leads the 
series with De Paul 45-34. .The Irish are 20-10 in games played against the Demons at the Joyce ACC...De Paul coach Joey Meyer is 6-4 against Notre Dame...Elmer Bennett now averages 10.0 points per game. . .Tonight's game will be televised by SportsChannel America with Don Criqui and Jim Gibbons announcing. 

WE"RE FIGHTING FOR "!!JR LIFE 
American Heart Association 

ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Damejuniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to sign up for a 

summer internship interview in our Chicago Consulting Group. 
• 
Math/C.S. / 

• 
MIS 

• 
CAPP 


• 
Engineers with programming expenence 

• 
Students interested in working in Chicago after graduation 


Interviews to be held on March 6, 1990. 
See the Placement Office for details. 
~ ---~--------------­
Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
2 p.m. IBM Lecture Series in Nanoelectronics: "Materials and Devices for Opto-Electronic Integrated Circuits," Pro­fessor James Kolodzey, University of Illinois. Room 258 Fitzpatrick. Sponsored by Dept. of Electrical and Com­puter Engineering. 
3:30 p.m. Lecture: "Simultaneous Strategies for Opti­ID:ization of Differential-Algebraic Systems," Larry Btegler, Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Carnegie-Mellon University. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Refreshments at 3 
p.m. in Room 181. Sponsored by Dept. of Chemical Engi­neering. 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
6:30 p.m. Career/Major Decision Making workshop con­tinues. University Counseling Center. 
7 p.m. Concert: 'Sankofu (African Rhythms Jazz)', Theodore's. Sponsored by Office of Minority Student Af­fairs. 
7:30p.m. Natural Family Planning Classes begin. Room 122 Hayes-Healy. For info call Janet Bettcher, 237-7401. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Baked Cajun Scrod BBQ Ribs Vineyard Veg w/Cheese Hot Pastrami Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Alt( l>Ut<\B KID CAN IS\JILP 
A s~~MP-.N, B\11 II "'~ A Gt~\IJS l\\(E ME TO CREAl£ 
A~T. 

Otolt LOOK f...\ 1\.\t. iORi\JRED COO~It.~~CE \:$ n\1~ FIG\11£ CO"HRMS 1Ht>-T 11\E. ARnST ~r.s DR\l~K D£H\..'( fROM WE CUI> 01= 1..\F~ .' 11\\S 't-lORK 5\lfo.U. ENOURE ANO 1~51'\R£ 
FU1\J~ G£~i\OOS! 

BILL WATTERSON 

11\\S S~<::IW SC\JL\)1\JR£. 1RA~5CEN\)S CORPQRg.L LIKENESS 'TO EXPRtss D££P£R. lR\li\\S Ain!T 1\\E IIUM~ COt-10\noN! i"\S SCU\..~1\JR£ IS A~ G.RI£f AKO 5\li=FERI~G! 
ACROSS 
1 Nude 5 Sudden, violent 
effort 10 Grow tiresome 14 Soon 15 Spaghetti, e.g. 16 Margarine 17 Asterisk 18 Aquatic animal 19 Tidy 20 British P M : 
1955-57 
23 Neon or argon 24 Canonized 
woman in Fr. 25 Bundled cotton 28 Lamb's cry 
31 Some examinations 
35 --Wallach, actor from Brooklyn 
36 Hanging piece of frozen water 39 Exude 40 Noted English navigator 43 Avocado's shape 44 Scold 45 D.C. bigwig 46 High plateaus 48 German article 49 Lariat 51 Obtain 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE FAR SIDE 
53 For each 54 Author of "Ivanhoe" 62 Facts 
64 One who mimics 65 Solemn assent 66 Emulates 
Maxwell Perkins 67 Valley 68 Saucy 69 Auctions 10 She, in Sevres 
DOWN 
1 Food fish 
2 Oppositionist 
3 Sound at Shea 
4 Madden 
5 Detects 
6 Trail 
7 Concerning 
8 British carbine 
9 Astor and Martin 
10 One who deliberates 
11 Helm position 
12 Far from plump 
13 Realty unit 
21 Opposite of 
zenith 
22 W.W II area 
25 Broom made of 
twigs 
26 Existing 
27 Turkey's 
monetary units 


28 Dug for coal, 
e~g. 

29 Capital of Ghana 30 Assumed name 32 Accumulate 33 Enjoys 34 To whom an 
exec dictates 37 Tractor operator's compartment 

38 Superlative ending 41 Glaringly bad 42 Erases 47 Stitch 50 Covered passageway 52 Supplementary 
jury group 53 Squeeze 54 Identical 55 Roman road 56 Helen of Troy's 
mother 57 Kite part 58 Italian noble 
family 59 Iridescent gem 60 Legendary 
Swiss hero 61 Dryad's home 62 Drop bait lightly 
JAY HOSLER 
Our protagonist is about to check on the progress of her remodelers in this scene from "Leona Helmsley Meets the Three Stooges." 
DEAR HEA'IEHLY MRTCH _ MAI«R. A..S I LAY DoWN 
SL££P 1 Pl111'f TI!Ai YfAJ Me FIND ~ I!CfFRI£ND 
I 

All I WANT 15 A SENSITI~t 
MAN W~O WILL CAR€ F~ Me, TALK WITH Mf ANI> HELP Mt THRCW,tl IH€ ROV~H SPOTS IN 
LiFE WITH HIS SftADfAST LtJI/6. 
THAT'S ALL 1 WANT, REALLY 

\ 
0~ >SO,NoW THAT YOU CAN 
SEE 'Ttl A'T I'M Nrff ASHN.LOW 
BIMBO , CoULD YooJ Ft€ASE 
R£w~<RD MC. BY MAKIN" HIM L.OOk 1..1 1(£ T0"1 $tLL.tCk'7 
l 
" 


~ 
~~mrn ~ 
~ ~ g Executive Council Positions for 1990-91 ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ d ~ 
i ~ Applications Boar Manager Now available at the ~ ~ 
i for. • ..,-• ~ 
i Dtrector OJ Programmtng Secretary's Desk i i • •.,-1 • 2nd Floor LaFortune i 
~ ~ Dtrector OJ Re attons ~ 
~ ~~Q Director of Marketing Due Febru~rv 22, 1990 ~ ~ ~~\)~,o~ Controller .._J ~ 
~ ~ i
i ~ 
WU/UUHAVAV~ 
.. 
-~ 


Sports

page 16 Tuesday, February 20, 1990 
DePaul on deck for high-flying Irish 
NO looks to extend its hopes of making NCAA tourney 
By GREG GUFFEY The Demons have been up Booth leads the Demon Assistant Sports Editor and down while tackling a offensive attack with 17.5 grueling 32-game schedule. points per game and scored 37 
With the search for credibility They opened the season in the points in the Louisville upset. finally over. the Notre Dame Dodge NIT and advanced to the Center Stephen Howard is the men's basketball team now Final Four with wins over Ohio other De Paul player in double must stop another team from State and North Carolina State. figures with 13.7 points and 8.1 getting it. They lost the semifinal and rebounds per game. 
The Irish ( 14-8) host De Paul consolation games in that Rounding out the Blue Demon (14-12) at 7:30p.m. tonight at tourney to St. John's 53-52 and lineup is forward Kevin Holland the Joyce ACC in a game pivotal UNLV 88-53. (8.0 ppg) and guards Melvon to the NCAA Tournament hopes Aft11r a win over Hartford, De Foster (6.4 ppg) and Terry of both independent teams. Paul went on a live-game losing Davis (9.2 ppg). Chuckie 
J<"or the Irish. it will be a vital streak to La Salle, Houston, Murphy scores 4.5 points off game at home following Western Illinois, North the bench. Saturday's emotional 66-65 Carolina and Dayton. The De Paul comes to the JACC victory over fourth-ranked Demons were 12-9 after a big shooting just 43 percent from Syracuse. For the Demons, a 66-62 upset of Louisville, but the field and 33 percent behind road win at the JACC would lost three of their next six the three-point stripe. The Irish greatly impress the tourney games to UCLA. North Carolina used a zone to hold Syracuse to selection committee. State and Alabama just 42 percent from the field. 
"As we get ready to play De Birmingham. Notre Dame must avoid a Paul. the most important thing "They're very capable of letdown after the first road win to r11member is that De Paul is exploding," Phelps said. "I against a Top 20 opponent in in a position where we were think records are deceiving, four years. That snapped an Saturday." Notre Dame coach especially at this time of the Orangemen streak of 37 Digger Phelps said. "That's year. You just can't let De Paul consecutive victories against what our players understand come in here and win at home." non-conference opponents. and that's how we approach The Demons have relied "It's a big win on the road for it. .. heavily on live players with us," Phelps said. "It gives us a 
Notre Dame and De Paul are nobody off the bench averaging lot of credibility we've been the only two independents with more than 17 minutes of searching for all year. I think legitimate hopes of making the action. Against Alabama the most important thing for us 64-team NCAA field. They play Birmingham on Saturday, only is to stay upbeat, to stay with again March 10 in Chicago, the eight De Paul players saw it." last game of the season for action and only six scored. 
see DEMONS I page 14

both teams. Sophomore forward David 

The Observer I John Studebaker 
Keith Robinson (50) and the Notre Dame men's basketball team face the DePaul Blue Demons in a crucial contest for both sides. 

Women's basketball hits St.Louis 
Irish MCC domination put to test again against Billikens 
By MOLLY MAHONEY But in the MCC-conference the Billikens from becoming a Assistant Sports Editor of ineptitude-it hasn't been complete embarrassment for too difficult for Notre Dame to St. Louis, as Notre Dame's What exactly is a Billiken? turn in some sterling perfor­blistering 62 percent first half Webster's would define one mances. shooting fell to 37 percent after 
as "a squat smiling comic fig­Saint Louis came into its last the halftime break. ure used as a mascot." But ask clash with the Irish 0-7 in the Nowlin has been asserting anyone on the Notre Dame MCC and 1-15 overall-not herself as of late, not just on women's basketball team and what one would call a major the boards as Notre Dame's she will tell you that a Billiken roadblock to Notre Dame's top rebounder, but by convert­is one of her favorite MCC hopes of garnering an NCAA ing many of those bounds to punching bags. bid. points for the Irish. 
The Billikens donned their Lynette Krzyzewski and .Julie blue uniforms when they visited Hacker-Buehne proved to be She will have even more the Joyce ACC February 1, but the most offensively proficient room to operate in the paint if the Irish made sure they left Billikens, recording 12 and 11 senior sharpshooter Lisa Kuhns black and blue as they trounced points, respectively. But with can stay consistent from the the lowly Billikens 84-50 and Irish freshman point guard perimeter. sent them home doing anything Coquese Washington's double­but smiling. double of 11 points and 11 as­The Irish have won 17 
Led by juniors Sara Liebscher sists helping Notre Dame to a straight MCC ·contests since and Karen Robinson who tallied 25-point halftime lead, and joining the conference last year. 14 points apiece in the winning Krissi Davis and Lisa Kuhns Barring any complete upsets, effort, the Irish rolled to one of combining for 25 points, it was the Irish should be on track to 
.....; 

-
-
their 12 MCC victories. difficult for St. Louis to launch repeat as league champions The tandem also got some an effective counter-attack. and perhaps impress the NCAA 
The Observer I David lee help from sophomore center Sluggish second-half shooting enough to sneak their eight­Margaret Nowlin (left) will help try to preserve the team's perfect Margaret Nowlin who pulled was the only thing preventing woman squad into the MCC record when the Irish take on Saint Louis tonight on the road. down a team-high 10 rebounds. the last Irish showdown with tournament as a wildcard. 
Rambling insights on contemporary world of sports 
It's time to make a few claims that her defection to the United States might season polls, LSU is having trouble getting past more personal observa-have been the action which helped cause the fall of Georgia and Alabama in the Southeastern tions as l flip through the communism in her land. Comaneci, unmarried and Conference race. Monday sports section. living with married man Constantin Panait, says VIEWS: Chris Jackson, Shaquille O'Neal and 
NEWS: The USA Today that her defection dropped Romania "like a bomb. Stanley Roberts are extremely talented players. But Top 25 has Missouri Because what will the people think? That even Nadia the fact remains that they all are underclassmen, ranked first, Kansas sec-leaves Romania." and you need to put two other guys on the court at ond. UNLV fourth, VIEWS; For a person considered an international all times. Oklahoma 11th, Louisiana hero, Nadia Comaneci certainly has done a lot to NEWS: Just about 50 games into the NBA season, State 12th. Michiga11 turn people off since her defection. Miami holds a record of 10-42 (.192 winning "Scott Skiles was here NEWS: James "Buster" Douglas spurns Mike percentage) and Charlotte is 9-40 (.184). 
Associate Sports Editor

State 16th. Illinois 17th, Tyson and decides to fight Georgian Evander VIEWS: Heck, if you add those percentages up, Minnesota 18th and Holyfield in his first heavyweight boxing title you can get pretty close to the projected 1990 Georgia 24th. defense. batting average of either Wade Boggs or Tony 
VIEWS: You know, I bet if all the schools that have VIEWS: Fate required this to occur. The Hawks Gwynn. endured some type of scandal or probation in the are throwing their season down the tubes, that NEWS: The Chicago White Sox reveal a new last live years were eliminated from the NCAA obnoxious guy who played the title character in baseball cap they might wear for the 1991 season. Tournament, the Irish would have a pretty good those classic films "Ernest Goes to Camp" and VIEWS: Since I started following baseball, the chance of reaching Denver after all. "Ernest Saves Christmas" is handling promotions White Sox must have changed their uniforms at 
NEWS: The Iowa farmer who owns part of the for the Braves and the Falcons are, well, the least five times. But no matter how they change it, baseball field from the motion· picture "Field of Falcons. they always end up having the ugliest uniforms in Dreams" has decided that he will have his portion of Something good had to happen to Atlanta sports the league. the field in suitable playing condition this summer. sooner or later. This wouldn't make any difference if the Sox were 
VIEWS: At least they'll be playing baseball As Ernest himself would say, "Knowhatimean?" a good ballclub, but when you look as bad as these somewhere this year. NEWS: After starting the season ranked among guys do on the field, you need all the help you can NEWS: Former Olympic gymnast Nadia Comaneci the nation's top five teams in everybody's pre-get. 







