

VOL. XXIII NO. 137 THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'More faculty,' says report to Trustees 
By JOE MOODY 
Assistant News Editor 
Adding a cofTP!' shop to tlw hookstom as wPII as iJHTPasing tlw UnivPrsity's faculty an~ among tlw rnrommPndations madP to tiH' Board of TrusWPs in a I"I'CPnt StudPnt c;ovPrnnwnt I"I'JIOI"I.. 
"NotrP J>anH' is now mak­ing a big push to lwronH~ a ri'­SParrh oriPntNI univnrsity. which is a good thing. But thPrP's a dangPr whl'n this 1·omPs at tlw PXJwnsP of quality undPrgraduatP tnaching, and this could lnad to sonw rnal problnms." said Anthony Lang, studl'nt ehaiqwrson of the Stu­dPnt!Faeulty Hdations rnport. 
An important n~eommnnda­tion thn rq)()rt madn is an in­crnasf~ in tlw faculty. If Notrn Damn has morn faculty. it can sprPad out tl'aehing to morn pPopll~ as wnll as incrnasing the quantity of n~snarch. said Lang. 
Lang sees room for im­provPmfHlt in studnntffaculty rPiations explaining, "At this Univnrsity, tlwre is an idea of fawlty as just gradP-givers and studPnts arn just tlwrn to get a gradP. WlwrPas studnnts and faculty should bl' l'ngaged in tiH' saml' intPih~ctual nndeavor." 
ConrPrning tlw roll' of stu­dPnt IPadPrs. tlw Committnl' on Studl'ntfl;arulty HPiations rnf:­OIIIIlWndations indud('(( the fol­lowing: 
•ThP 
Obsl'rVPr dnlivnr copiPs of tiH' papPr to Paeh on­campus faculty ol'licP. 

•Tiw 
OflkP of StudPnt Ae­tivitiPs I'Xpand tlH' dutiPs of onP lllPillllf'r to indud1~ tlw activ1~ rPnuitnwnt and organization of faculty intPrart.ion. 

•StudPlll 
(;ovPrnmPllt ereatn a task forrP of govl'rnment IPadPrs. lntnllnrtual Lifn eom­mittPI' mPmlwrs. and r.onr.nnwd faculty to Pstablish a uniform systPm by whieh studPnts can compiiP and publish thnir classmatp's opinion on eoursns and instructors. 


C:onel'rning rnsidPneP halls, tlw 1:ommiltl'n's rnrommenda­tions indudPd: 

Student Government Report on: A2CULTV/STUDENT ~ RELATIONS 

00 
•When 
tlw older halls arn rnmodelnd, the administration eonvnrt span~ for in-rnsidnnee housing of faculty. 

•Tiw 
departments teach a grnatnr numbnr of classes in thn residence halls. 

•Student 
Govnrnment create an office of llall Fellows Coordinator. 

•The 
administration allot space in each dorm for the of­lien of a professor. 


On why a committee was selected to deal with stu­dent/faculty relations, Lang ex­plained, "Student Government decides on certain topics which they think are important to the campus and which they feel students should address to the Board of Trustees. This year one topic that they decided on was the interaction of students and faculty." 
"We interviewed a lot of faculty and students. We lookml into a lot of old reports to get a feel for where this is in the history of intellectual life on campus and put together the recommendations that we thought would he helpful," said Lang. 
"The rnport is a product of a long history of people looking into this along with a lot of hard work. Wn're not just com­ing 'out of thn blue' with this. We hope the Trustees will real­izn this," conrluded Lang. 
Tim other Committe!~ mem­bers were Matthew Slaughter, Bob llawkins, .Jim Lang, Nancy Snyder. Mike Shinnick. .Jessica Haniszeski. Ken McGrath. Karl Domangue, Mark 'Gn~dlnr, Carolyn Hey, Ashley McCourt­ney, and Erin Lavelle. 

The Observer/ Eric Bailey 


Eyes Right! 

University President Father Edward Malloy looks on as the Navy midshipmen march by the stand at the Presidential Pass in Review yesterday. All three forces participated in this event. 
Bonello to be A&L college fellow 
Special to The Observer 
Frank Bonello, associate pro­fessor of economics, has been named the new eollnge fellow in the Collegn of Arts and Lntters. llis appointment begins in the fall semester of 1990. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1968, Bmwllo was appointed April 30 by Michael Loux, dean of the collegn. lie sucr.eeds Thomas Swartz, pro­


fessor of economics, who Frank Bonello served as the first college fel­the community of teachers, low, beginning in 1987. scholars and fellow students," 
The office of the college fel­said Loux. "We're confident low is intended to enrich intel­that Frank Bonello will con­lectual life of the College of tinue to build the college fel­Arts and Letters through in­low's office as a key element in creased faculty-student inter­the life of our undergraduates action, said Loux. and faculty." 
"Much of the learning within According to Bonello, at the a university -indeed, some of outset he will be looking for its most stimulating time -is ideas from both students and less formal interactions within faculty in Arts and Letters. ''I'll consider anything that will im­prove thn intellectual tiff~ of the campus: programs, aetivitiPs or anything else." 
A principal focus for the nPw college fellow will be to facili­tate academic advising, with a special concern bPing letters of recommendations. "I sen stu­dents scurrying around to gPt professors to write rneomnwn­dations," lw said. "Often they find they have to usn letters from Core Course or Frnshnwn Seminar teachers and not pro­grams begun in tlw first thre1~ years of tlw fellow's office, in­cluding subsidies for informal gatherings with students in faculty homes, tickets for cul­
tural events and  a  pPer advis­ 
ing system."  
Ile  also expects  to  usc  the  

fellow's oflice to help enhance see BONELLO I page 7 

NO salaries rank in top 20 percent of the nation 

70 

(/) 
)...! 
l1l 60 .-i .-i 
0 
50

'0 
"-! 
0 40 
(/) 
'0 
30

s:: 
l1l 
;:l (/) 20 0 
..s:: 
-1-l 10 s:: 
·.-I 0 
86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 Academic Year 
The American Association of University Professors 

The Observer/ Bradford J. Boehm 
By JAY STONE 
News Writer 
According to f:gures compiled annually by the American Asso­ciation of University Profes­sors, faculty salaries at Notre Dame for the current academic year continue to be in the top 20 percent among the nation's doctoral institutions. 
The overall average salary was $54,400, placing Notre Dame 22nd with a number-one AAUP rating. Notre Dame ranked behind Cal Tech (1), Stanford University (2), and Princeton University (11) and above University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, (27) and George­town University (44). Seven years ago, Notre Dame's rank­ing was 43rd with a number­two AAUP rating. 
For full professors, the aver­age salary was $69,100, giving Notre Dame a 21st ranking, behind llarvard University (1 ), Yale University (4), and Prince­ton University (5). Notre Dame placed above University of Cali­fornia, San Diego, (22) and Dartmouth College (35). Ten years ago, Notre Dame ranked 94th with a number-three AAUP rating. 

The average salary of associ­ate professors at Notre Dame was $47,000 and ranked 34th, behind Cal Tech (1 ), MIT (3), and University of Southern California (16). Banked below Notre Dame were Dartmouth College (41) and Boston College (45). Ten years ago, Notre Dame ranked 62nd in the asso­ciate professor category with a number-two AAUP rating. 
For Notre Dame assistant professors, the average salary was $40,800 and ranked 16th, behind Cal Tech (1 ), University of Pennsylvania (2), and Uni­versity of Chicago (13). Notre Dame placed above Duke Uni­versity (20) and University of California, Berkeley, (21 ). Ten years ago, Notre Dame ranked 90th with a number-three AAUP rating. 
A report titled "Priorities and Commitments for Excellence" submitted by Provost Timothy O'Meara in November, 1982, to former University Prnsident Father Theodorn llesburgh gave two recommendations to improve faculty salaries: first, that "standards for promotion and tenure must be raised gradually but steadily as the University continues to devnlop as a major university," and second, that "the University achieve a number-one AAUP 
see SALARIES I page 7 


a e 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



A tribute to our graduating mentors 
"These places have 
their moments, with --------­lovers and friends I still can recall. Some are dead and some are living. In my life, I've loved them all. " -The Beatles It was the beginning of my freshman year. John O'Brien 
My roommate had gone home with Managing Editor 
mono, so for two 
weeks I was left alone in my room, knowing 
a few freshmen, and even less of anyone 
else. If this is college, I thought, it's going 
to stink. 
This feeling didn't last for long. Without 
even having to ask, a group of juniors in my 
section started stopping by my room and 
talking with me. I felt a little self-conscious, 
being a freshman and all, but soon they 
made me feel at ease, taking me under their 
wing and even taking me out with them. 
Soon I began to feel at home with these 
guys, sometimes a little too at home. . 
The guys started taking me out to parties, 
to Manor bowling, and I sat with them at 
dinner. But as soon as I thought I was really 
cool I'd do something to look conspicuously 
like 'a freshman-but I won't go into details 
(sorry Mom and Dad). In spite of my 
embarrassing moments, these guys stuck 
with me. 
Over the course of last year, my room­
mates and I became good friends with the 
juniors. Manor Bowling, the. Burning 
House the Disco SYR-many fun times were 
shared. But it wasn't all parties. Sitting 
around, shooting the bull, or even watching 
cartoons, I began to feel that maybe college 
wouldn't be so bad after all. We left for 
summer, happy to know that we'd live in the 
same section the next year. 
We began this year as the big bad sopho­
mores and now we had big senior friends to 
hang around with. Sure, we saw them less, 
but we still found times for parties at the 
Ida house or even a little "wet" softball. 
Nonetheless, we made other friends and we 
began to see those guys even less. While 
they were still good friends, we seemed to 
have less contact. 
Now it's the end of the year for us. For 
them, though, it's the end of the line. Next 
fall when we're moving in as juniors, they'll 
be out in the working world or starting 
grad school. It won't be the same without 
them. Who's going to come in and borrow 
our dogbook or "wake up the freshmen?" 
Even worse, who's going to hang out with 
us and shoot the bull? 
I guess it will be up to us to take over 
their duties next year. Besides showing next 
year's freshmen a good time, maybe we'll 
even be able to show them what true friend­
ship is. So Dave, Doug, Beez, Ellis, Copes, 
Sac, Ted, Dan, Janicik, Squirrel, Crehan, 
O'Meara, Rich and Jimmer, thanks for 
teaching us well. You'II be a tough act to 
follow and we'll miss you. 
Steak dinner. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71  
Today's Staff:  
News  Ad Design  Systems  
Joe Moody  Kerry Clair  Molly Schwartz  
Debbie Lohman  Maria Blohm  Cesar Capella  
Kit Kat Kane  Tony Paganelli  
Amy Eckert  Business  
Accent  Cara Eckman  Sandra Wiegand  
Shonda Wilson  Caroline Clarke  
Cristrna Ortiz  Sports Mike Kamradt  Graphics  
Production  Scott Brutocao  Bradford Boehm  
Andy Morrow Greg Tice  Viewpoint Julie Sheperd  Circulation Chris Hanely  
Kate Foster  Lu Medeiros  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through· Frid~ except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, May 3, 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, May 3. 
60

Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 66 Yesterday's low: 3 8 
Nation's high: 100 
(Fort Stewart, Ga.) 
Nation's low:· 1 0 
(Pinedale, Wyo.) 
Forecast: There will be 
intermittent rain with the 
possibility of thunder­
showers. The high will be 
in the mid to upper 50's, 
and there is a 80 percent 
chance of rain. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © ~ ~ m [;] 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

All juniors planning on taking on-campus interviews at the Career and Placement Services office during their senior year are re~inded to tu~n in. two copies of their resume before leavmg campus th1s sprmg. 
Students, faculty, or staff are wanted to volunteer for several hours on May 24 to deliver thank you packets to community businesses. Call Notre Dame Community Relations, Jim Roemer or Pam Foltz, at 239­6614 if interested. 
There will be a Midnight Pancake Breakfast at 
North and South Dining Halls, May 6 from 11 p.m. to 
12:30 a.m. 

LaFortune Student Center will be open 24 hours a day from Sunday, May 6 through Thursday, May 10. 
The final meeting of the Hispanic-American Organization will take place Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. A guest speaker will address the organization and all members are urged to attend. 
A Piano Recital will be given by Jim Gabriel tonight at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
The Cards for Carlos Petrozzi will be in LaFortune today and tomorrow. All students who have not signed the card are asked to stop by and sign it. 
To all those who requested funds from the Trea­surer's Office, you should pick up your checks this week in the office on the second floor LaFortune. Checks will not be mailed to your summer address. 
WORLD 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Isreal is Soviet Jewish immigration activists emphasizing the need for broader-based negotiations warned an Israeli minister Wednesday that Israel was with the Arab world in place of the Palestinian-Israeli close to a "catastrophe" in its handling of a wave of dialogue promoted by U.S. officials. Shamir, who appears Soviet newcomers. The heated television debate came just likely to head Isreal's next government, has played down a day after hundreds of Soviet immigrants rallied in a the importance of holding talks with Palestinians in Cairo coastal resort town. demanding employment and housing. as proposed by U.S. Secretary of State James Baker. Immigrants have also complained of a lack of job 
opportunities. 
NATIONAL 

Eric Clapton, rock guitarist who Five white supremacist "skinheads" is currently a recovering alcoholic and accused of plotting to gas a synagogue were sentenced heroin addict, sometimes leads Wednesday to prison terms ranging from four to nine prayers before going on stage to per­years for conspiring to violate the civil rights of form, a band member said. Bassist minorities. The convictions were the first under a new Nathan East explained how the nine­federal crackdown on hate groups. Defense lawyers member band gathers in a circle to charged their clients were tried for their beliefs and said pray before every show on the 26-city the men merely were exercising their right to free speech. 
U.S. tour to promote Clapton's "Journeyman" album. Clapton was formerly in the group Cream, the Yardbirds, Derek and Dominos. He's played with Phil Collins and Bob Dylan among many others. 
ALMANAC OnMay4: e In 1626: Dutch explorer Peter
INDIANA 
Minuit landed on Manhattan Island, 
later buying it from Indians for $24

Jeremiah Freeman, professor of MARKET UPDATE 
worth of trinkets. chemistry at the University of Notre Dame and 
Closings for May 2, 1990 
e In 1776: Rhode Island declared

associate dean of the College of Science, has been 
its freedom from England, two months 

awarded the 1990 Shilts/Leonard Teaching 
before the Declaration of Indepen­

Award for the College. Freeman, who received his 
dence was adopted. Volume in shares
undergraduate degree from Notre Dame, did his 
e In 1932: Mobster AI Capone.doctoral work at the University of Illinois. He 141.61 Million 
convicted of income-tax evasion, en­
tered the federal penitentiary in At­lanta. 

joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1964. 
e In 1946: A two-day riot at Alca­NYSE Index 
The operators of the Four County 
traz prison in San Francisco Bay 183.34 {f 1 .12 
Landfill in South Bend must pay attorney fees and 
ended, the violence having claimed the

expenses for a citizens group that successfully 
lives of five people.
S&P Composite 334.48 {f 2.23

fought to close the 61-acre hazardous waste 
e In 1970: Ohio National Guards­

landfill in Fulton County, a federal judge has 
men opened fire on a crowd of anti-warDow Jones Industrials

ruled. U.S. District Judge Robert Miller Jr. on 
protesters at Kent State University,Monday ordered the landfill operator, 2,689.64 "1!20.72 

killing four students and wounding nine

Environmental Waste Control, to pay $146,425 to 
Precious Metals 
others.

Supporters to Oppose Pollution. 
e In 1979: James Callaghan sub­Gold ~ $.80 to $372 I oz. 

mitted his resignation as British prime Silver-.!) 3¢ to $4.988 I oz. 
minister to Queen Elizabeth II, one day after his Labor party was defeated by
Source: AP 
Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives. 

Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 3 
NO's polling places are split into three precincts 
Special to The Observer 
T1~rry Wozniak, chairman nf tlw St. Joseph County l·:lnrtion Board, announrPd today that thP polling places for Notre DamP votl~rs has rhangml from StPpan Ctmtnr to tlw Joycn Athll'lic: and Convocation c,~ntnr (JACC). Thn rhangPs wPrn mandatnd by statl~ law limiting the sizt~ oi' pr!'einets to IBss than HOO vot.Prs. As a rnsult Notre Dallll' has btwn dividt1d among thrn!' different prPrincts. Saint Mary's stu­dPnts and n~sidnnts are unaiTPc·tnd hy tlw change. 
l;Prwrally. all rPsidences and dormitorins WBSt of the Administration Building are in l'ortagP Township 001; all rc1sid1ll11:ns and dormitories east of tlw Administration Building and WI!St of old .lu· niper Boud (first road west of tho Library) are in PortagP 0 I B and will also votn at thP .IACC but on dif­fBrnnt mac:hines from l'ortagB 00 I; thP remaining halls east of old Juniper !load are now part of Clay 002 and will vote off campus at l.ittltl Flower Church {at tlw corner of Bulla Hoad and Ironwood.) 
A complete listing of halls 

and tlwir n~SJHH~tive voting 
plaePs follows: 
Votinl{ at polling place 

Portagll 00 I UACC) 
Alumni llall 
Badin Hall 
Brownson llall 
Carroll llall 
Columba llall 
Fatima Hctreat Fisher llall lloly Cross Ilall lluward Hall Lowis llall Lyons llall Morrissoy Hall Old College llall Pangborn llall Presbytery Hall Hntrnal House non: Building 
Sorin !!all St. Jost~ph llall Walsh Hall 
Voting at polling place 01 B 
{JACCl Breen Phillips Hall Cavanaugh Hall 
Center for Continuing Edu· 
cation Farley Hall Fire House 
KHenan Ball 
LaFortune Hall Notnl Dame Infirmary St. Edward's Hall Stanford Hall Zahm Hall 
Voting at Little Flower Chureh as part of Clay 002 Athletic and Convocation 
Center UACC) Flanner Hall Grace Hall Knott Hall Notre Dame Townhouses O'Hara-Grace Apartments Pasquerilla East Pasquerllla West Siegfried Hall 


The Observer/ Dave Short

Sun or studies? 

As the school year winds down, teachers are more willing to hold class outdoors. This class was held yesterday outside O'Shaughnessy at the Shaheen-Mestrovic Memorial, a popular warm weather spot. 


Red Smith Scholarships awarded 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Juniors Scott Brutocao and Natasha Wilson have been an­nounced as the winners of the 1990 Red Smith Writing Schol­arship. 
The memorial scholarship honoring Notre Dame alumnus and legendary sportswriter Hed Smith was established five years ago and is presented an­nually to a student or students who demonstrate excellence in undergraduate writing. 

WE'VE JUST HIRED SOME EXCEPTIONAL TALENT. 
KATHLEEN FOCHLER, MARK BAUMGARTNER, JOHN McALEARNEY 
The Travelers is proud to announce that the students listed 
above will be joining us as new employees this year. 
Whether in information processing, engineering, telecommuni­
cations, finance, actuarial or one of our many other entry-level 
positions or training programs, we look forward to the contributions 
these talented people will make to our business. 

We'd like to thank all of you who interviewed with us. And we 
wish the best of luck to all of this year's graduates. 
TheTravelertJ" 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 
© 1990 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
The faculty in the American Studies department nominates the students based on their outstanding writing ability. 
"I was really surprised," said Wilson, an American Studies major. "I wasn't expecting it." She said she has read some of Red Smith's work in class and "liked his style." 
"I have a copy of his (Smith's) biography and I'm looking for­ward to reading it," Wilson said. 
Wilson's writing experience at Notre Dame began in the fall of her freshman year when she began writing for The Ob­server's news department. She is currently a Senior Staff Re­porter. 
In high school Wilson said she wrote for her sehool news­paper. After her freshmen year at Notre Dame, Wilson worked as a news intern at the Tuscaloosa News in Alabama. She also gained writing experi­ence while she was a public re­lations intern in a medical cen­ter. 
Wilson's future plans include a career in public relations. She 
AmNTIQN: STUDENTS AND TEACHERS Petf8Ct oppor1unity PT/FT anywhere in U.S.A. Talk to family-friends-neighbors-save them $ on long distonce services. ~·a prospect. lmmediat.s cash income, lon9. htnn residual income through school year. No deliveri•· no collections-work at ~r conwnience. Interviews wery Thursday, 7pm­Marriott Hotel· Indiana Rm.• ask for Therese Harmon. 
said she hopes to attend Northwestern University's graduate program in public re­lations. This summer Wilson will be working at a public. rela­tions lirm in New York City. 
Brutocao, also an Anwriean Studies major, said,"lt was such a shock to get the notiee 
in the mail. ..to have my name associated with Hed Smith is incredible to me." 
lie said he was tremendously flattered that thn American 
Studies department chose him 
from "such a talentnd bunch of juniors." 
In the beginning of his fresh· man year. Brutocao began working for The Observer as a sports writer. lie presently serves as an Assistant Sports Editor. 
Brutocao has also written feature stories and a news story for Scholastic magazine. 
This summer he will be working as a sports writing in­tern at the San Diego Tribune. Brutocao said that although he is uncertain about his eareer plans. he wants writing part to be a part of his career. 

Now in our new location: 1724 N Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN %72-0129 
Bicycles by: *Raleigh *Bridgestone *Eddy Mercia •Pinuello 


The area's ONLY certified FIT-KIT Technicians for proper fit and position • NECA Frame Alignment • Customer Wheel Building • Certified Mechanics 


--~ ---~-..--~----~------~~---­
The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1990
page 4 


The ominous lava progresses 

was kidnapped on March 16,
Vivian Linton's home in Kalapana became the 124th house to be 
destroyed by the silent but violent Kilauea Volcano. 


Priest works to free 'son' 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -An Episcopal priest is working to free his 23-year-old adopted son, a Rastafarian imprisoned for wounding a Hammond man during a 1982 attempted rob­bery. 
The Rev. Robert Leve, 59, comes from a middle-class background but says he sympa­thizes with the youthful mis­takes that turned Mark "Shaka" Douglas into a prison inmate. 
The two became acquainted three years ago through a na­tional prison correspondence program. Leve formally adopted Douglas in 1988 and now works tirelessly to obtain the young man's early release. 
"I don't condone what he did, but on the other hand, I don't think he should spend 15 years in prison for it," Leve said. "I think Mark is a person who, because of foolish mistakes he has made in his life, has been given a punishment that doesn't befit the crime." 

Douglas was 16 when he and two friends attempted to bur­glarize the home of Lowell Fitch, a Hammond gunsmith. 
Douglas admits he fired two rounds from a sawed-off shot­gun, striking Fitch in the shoulder and hand. 
But he says the crime was the end of a two-year spiral into trouble with his family and the law. 
"If I could talk to the victims, I would like to show them I've changed," he said. "I know I can never make up for it, but I would like to let them know that I have changed." 
Cathy, Best wishes for the future I 

olwoys houe your coke ond eot it too. 4th floor seol of o rouol 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 

YOU'VE EARNED IT. 


Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E . .Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 





Former Hostage mad at U.S. 
1985. Sutherland was seized June 9, 1985. 
"I tell you, I'm very, very an­gry that Anderson ... Tom and Terry ... are not free," Reed said from the hospital balcony. 
Reed, pale and dressed in his blue hospital bathrobe, said he last saw Sutherland in Febru­ary 1989. Sutherland on Thursday turns 59, marking his fifth birthday in captivity. 
Reed, 57, also said he spent three years in the intermittent company of Briton John Mc­Carthy and Brian Keenan, a dual Anglo-Irish citizen. He said he saw them just before his release and they were "well and alive." 
"I have been with John and Brian since last October," Reed said. ''I've spent almost three years either with John and Brian or having them some­where in the house with me." 
McCarthy, 33, a journalist for the London-based Worldwide Television News agency, WTN, was kidnapped April 17, 1986. Keenan, 39, disappeared while walking to work six days later. 
"Those were the only people I knew" in captivity, Reed said of the four hostages. 
The founder of a private school in Beirut, Reed was the second American hostage freed in nine days. Robert Polhill, freed April 22, went through the same medical tests and de­briefing last week. 
A special State Department team questioned Reed for a second day Wednesday, seeking clues about the 16 remaining Westerners held hostage by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon. Six of the captives are Ameri­can. 
President Bush thanked Syria and Iran for aiding both hostages' release but has said he will make no deals for hostages. Both Syria and Iran hope to establish closer ties with the West. 
But on Wednesday, Iran's spiritual leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ruled out negotia­tions with the United States to end 11 years of hostility be­tween the nations. It was not known what the anti-American stance meant for the possibility of any further hostage releases. 
Reed, who lost 60 pounds in his 3 1/2 years of captivity said he initially had been angry with the U.S. administration that hostages were still being held. 
AP Photo 
WIESBADEN, West Germany (AP) -Former U.S. hostage Frank Reed revealed Wednes­day he was held for months with two other American cap­tives in Lebanon and said he was angry and embarrassed that they have not been freed. 
Reed, who was released Mon­day after 42 months in captiv­ity, said he also was held with two British hostages. Reed was flown Tuesday to Wiesbaden for a battery of medical exams and questioning at the U.S. Air Force hospital. 
"I have not seen Tom and Terry for a while and I don't know where they are," Reed said, referring to Terry Ander­son, The Associated Press chief Middle East correspondent, and Thomas Sutherland, an Ameri­can educator. 
"For God's sake, it's nearly the sixth year for these men. I'm absolutely embarrassed I'm out before they are." 
Reed, in his first comments to reporters since arriving in Wiesbaden, said he spent "the good part of two yaars with Tom and Terry." 
Anderson, the longest-held Western hostage in Lebanon, 
r----~~---~----------~ ~----------~--~-----~--~~-----~--------­
Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer 
page 5 

Plug p_ulled on Exxxstasy TV 



MOVI UP MOVI OUTI 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (API ­A BiblP Belt pros1.1eutor has pulled the plug on a national X­ratnd TV channel that beamed movies like "Ramb-Ohhh! Sex Platoon" and "llardeore Girl­friends" to satellite dish own­ers. 
Civil libnrtarians are alarmed by the PasP with which District Attorney Jimmy Evans, a Demoeratie candidate for state attorney general. drove New York-based Home Dish Satellite Networks Inc. out of business. 
"What's happened is some lit­tle small town in the South is setting the standard for the rest of the country," said Martin McCaffery. viee presi­dent of the Civil LibPrties Union of Alabama. "It's a horrendous precedent." 
Evans says adult f'ilms have no First Amendment protHetion. "These movies not only violate Alabama's obscenity law, they violate evP.ry statP obsePnity law and the fHderal obscenity law," he said. "This is a national scandal." 
lie said he began itn investi­gation after parents com­plained that their young chil­drnn were obtaining videotapes of pornographic movies broad-east on the Amnriean Exxxtasy Channnl, which was operatod by llome Dish. 

"I know from experience that hardeore obscenity lnads to the abuse of women and children," the Montgomery County prose­cutor said. "It's bad for our community and bad for our children." 
The American Exxxstasy Channel transmitted hard-core movies to horne satellite sub­scribers, but it also operated thn Tuxxedo Channel, a cable channel featuring H-rated "soft-core" porn. 

In February, a grand jury in Montgomery returned more than 500 indictments against Home Dish, three other out-of­state companies and 10 people on charges of distributing hardcore pornography via satellite into Alabama. 
The other indicted companies -General Telephone and Elec­tronics Corp., GTE Spacenet Corp. and U.S. Satnllite Inc. ­provided the satellitP capability for American Exxxstasy, but they pleaded ignorance and cut off llome Dish service. 
The Tuxxedo Channel soon met the same fate. Its broad­casts to local cable affiliates 
At the end of the semester, the move is on ... to home, to a new apartment or a new job. Whether you're moving from a dorm or off-campus apartment, you'll find Hertz Penske's "do-it-yourself" move is quick, easy and very affordable. 
Get together with a couple of friends or go it alone. Hertz Penske will help you "keep it all together" with everything from packaging materials and accessories to a moving guide that helps you plan every step. Our trucks are some of .the newest on the road and are available with all the good stuff ... automatic trans­mission, air conditioning, radio, easy load ramp and much more. 
For an estimate of what your move will cost, or to make a reservation, call today. And be sure to mention your college to receive your "return discount," a 10% discount for your return to school. .. or your next move. 
1·100·222·0277 
Herkz 
PENSKE 
TruckRental 
and dish owrwrs wern removed from a satellite owned by Gnn­nral Motors Corp. aftnr a grand jury returned another indict­
ment against I lome Dish. 

llome Dish. which had rnaehed 1.2 million eable cus­tonwrs and 80,000 satellite­equipped homes, had to lay off' its 100 employPes. Its president, Paul Klein, and three other company officials still face an Alabama extradition request. 
"I can't fight it," said Klein, a former NBC executive. "I'm small and very vulnerable. I'm out of businnss and thny're still trying to extradite nw." Nnw York Gov. Mario Cuomo has the extradition n~quest "under rn­vinw," his ofliee said. 
"Without proving that any­thing is obscnne, .Jimmy Evans has sucecednd in bankrupting this company and keeping the rest of the country from seeing these movies in the privacy or their home," MeCafl'ery said. 
Klein said his channels, which had 30 satnllite customers in Montgomery and about 600 around the state, were "meant for consenting adults." But perhaps thousands of others were stealing the service with illegal descramblers. 
Klein said many Tuxxedo af­filiates switched their sub­scribers to one or two other soft-corn cable channels, Ren­dezvous and Playboy. Evans said he knows nothing of those channels, which Montgomery's only cable company doesn't of­fer. 
Evans, Montgomnry's chief prosecutor since 1973, wnnt after adult magazines in 1986, while in his first, unsuccessful bid to become attorney general. 
Attention Freehmen 
Sopho~and 
Junia.-. 




Earn
.. ­


while youlearn. 
M•npcR~~Mr • loeking for Rudenta in..,'Wt:8d in ..rning g..-t pey. W. 
offwf....,.houra. Vlllu..,.. tr..ning•nd bu........., ......

pt.,.,__., • 
................,..... 
If you'N a t.ll time .tudent, l•p..__• or 
•bow,..............with at laaat • B 
com,.,....fll.....,., Manpau•• .....,... 

• COl LIGIAR IEP to
,..............., 
IBM PaiKJNII -.mnJ 
.....
,.,....•: 
Lynnette Lottie 
a.n 1• ...,., 
.,..-; .... 

310 .ulalle 
SCMitlt .....,lnd•
..,1 


-------------~~-------------------------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1990 




Kid kills self in front of class 
Town is shocked by three suicides in two days 
SHERIDAN, Ark. (AP) ­Mourners gathered Wednesday for the funeral of a teenager who was the first of three sui­cide victims among high school students in two days, and coun­selors for their classmates were on 24-hour call. 
About 80 students missed classes Wednesday at Sheridan High School, about 30 more than usual, school officials said. 
School Superintendent David Robinson said many of the school's 770 students were ex­pected to attend the funeral of 17 -year-old Thomas Smith. A police officer at the door of the funeral did not allow outsiders to attend. 
Smith professed his love for a classmate, pulled a gun out of bis pants and shot himself in 
U.S. rejected Libyan offer, says diplomats 
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) -The Libyan government secretly of­fered to dismantle a plant that 
U.S officials said produces poi­son gas shortly before a fire was reported there in March, diplomats said. 
The offer was contingent on Western countries paying "compensation" and agreeing to build a pharmaceutical fac­tory to replace the plant, West­ern and Middle Eastern diplo­mats based in Tripoli said Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Libya has claimed the plant in Rabta, 60 miles southwest of Tripoli, produces pharmaceuti­

cals. blaze caused heavy The offer was t() the plant. 
front of his American history class Monday. 
Later Monday, Thomas Chidester, 19, of the Grapevine community, a friend of Smith's, died of a gunshot wound. He left a note that said "I can't go on any longer," according to police. 
On Tuesday, the body of Jerry Paul McCool, a 17-year-old sophomore, was discovered in his home by his father. McCool, who also had been shot, knew Smith and Chidester, but wasn't close with them, officials said. 
All three deaths were ruled suicides, said Grant County Sh­eriff Cary Clark. 
In addition to those deaths, a 17-year-old classmate shot himself to death March 28. And three other county residents ­ages 22, 40, and 82 -have killed themselves since Jan. 23. 
but some diplomats say it is significant because it indicates Libyan leader Moammar Gad­hafi is moving to resolve the bitter clash with the United States over the plant. 
"This shows that at least some Libyans (in the govern­ment) ... are keen to have the Rabta problem solved, in such a way that will not make Libya lose face," one Western diplo­mat said. 
He pointed out that the Rabta plant was an obstacle to Libya's recent efforts to end its international isolation. 
But other diplomats said the 
Hours after the latest shoot­ing, parents and students packed the school's 1 ,000-seat auditorium to discuss the sui­cides. Some held hands. Some cried. 
mally quiet bedroom  commu­ 
nity  30  miles  south  of Little  
Rock.  

Robinson said students met with counselors in group ses­sions and one-on-one Wednes­day. 
"Obviously school, as such, is not occurring at the moment," Robinson said. "Actually, it's more like a massive counseling session." 
Robinson, who held a news conference Wednesday morn­ing, said he also felt the situa­tion was getting better. 
U.S. military strike at the plant. 
The proposal comes at a time when Libya and the United States appear to have quietly resumed indirect contacts, said the diplomats, who spoke on condition their names not be used. 
Numerous requests for inter­views at the Libyan foreign ministry were not granted and lower-ranking officials refused comment. 
The cause and extent of the 
March  fire  at  Rabta  are  still  
unknown.  
The  United  States  initially  

AP Photo 

Smuggling sensor 
Air Force systems engineer Bob Croft is dwarfed by a large "backscatter" radar antenna that became operational near Bangor, Me_ last week. The system, if it works as planned, will spot even the smallest smuggler aircraft over Mexico, long before it reaches the U.S. border. The radar system has been moved on paper recently from the Pentagon's troubled defense budget to the growing counter -drug budget. 
........... ---~----~ 
r-----------------------------~------------------------------­
Thursday, May 3, 1990 

Quiet, all ladies college may finally admit the boys 
OAKLAND. Calif. (API ­Tiny. nxrlusivn Mills Collngo has nnvnr bonn wlwrn tlw boys are, hut a votn by trustnns of the I :lH-ynar-old wonwn 's school may admit malt~ undnrgradu­alPs for tho first limn. 
Tlw truslnt~s of Northorn California's only wonwn's col­lngn nwnt privatnly Thursday at an undisrlost~d location to dn­ddn wlwthnr to go coed uca­tional I 0 I yoars aflor graduat­ing tho first wonwn wnst of tlw Mississippi. 
Studonts say thny foe! power­loss to afTnet the hoard's deci­sion. although most of the 777 women undnrgrads at the quint, trnn-lirwd campus in East Oak­land oppose the plan designed to boost tmrollmnnt and rev­mmns. 
"I think the board of trustees is going to votn to go co-ed no matter what we say. They've shown that so far." said Nina Schneider. a 22-ynar-old art major who will graduate this ymtr. 
Mills has admitted male graduate students since the I1HOs. when tho program be­gan, said Lindsey Bnabnn, a Mills spokeswoman who noted that schools can lose federal funds if they exrlude graduate studonts because of race, sex or national origin. Nearly 20 1wrcent of tht~ 264 graduate studnnts arn rnnn. 
Its undorgraduate school is ono of tlm~e in tho statn and 9H nationwidn that nxdude mt~n. 
Although most studnnts and faculty opposn admitting male undnrgraduates, administra­tors say going condueational ultirnatoly will sav11 tho prnsti­gious liberal arts school from a growing financial rrisis. 
"Of roursn it will bt> an un­popular dncision. It will bt> a lwartbreaking dndsion," said tho trustees' chairman F. War­ren llnllman, whose family nwmbnrs hav11 attnndnd Mills and hnld positions on its board for 75 years. 
llollman, a San Frandsen in­vnstrnent banker. said the col­lngn must go eo-ed to aV<!id rn­lying too much on its $70 mil­lion nndowmnnt, which providns one-fifth of the school's $24 million annual budgnt. 
"Wn had a deficit last year and we 'II have a deficit this year and thn next," ll11llman said. "It's not working any longer. I don't want to see us nat away at the endowment un­til we're in real trouble." 
Opponents argue that admit­ting men would violate tradi­tion at the institution that be­gan as the Young Ladies Semi­nary high school in Benicia be­fore moving :~5 miles southeast to Oakland as a college in 1871. 
Opponents also contend that letting men into undergraduate classrooms could spoil the at­mosphere that allows women to take leadership roles in discus­sions and on campus. 
"There's a sense of empow­erment women get from attend­ing this college because of the climate in the classroom," said Hobyn Fisher, the 21-year-old senior president of the Associ­ated Students at Mills. 
Enrollm11nt in Mills College's 33 undergraduate programs is down 4.2 pereent from three years ago and 29 pnrcent below the 1,000 students needed to balance the budget. Peak un­dergraduate enrollment was SlO students in 19H7. 
Frank DeTorna, dean of the faculty. said he's not sure if trustt~es will heed last week's 57-26 faculty vote against admitting male undergradu­ates. 

HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
2111233 2179 
MALE GRADUATE HOUS.ING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 9 month lease 

----------, 
The Observer page 7 

The Observer/ Dave Short 

Buy a pot for Mom 
Lauren Beebe, an off-campus grad student, sells pottery outside Riley Hall. The sale is from 10 a.m. ­5p.m. and will continue until Friday. This is a great opportunity to get a Mother's Day gift. 

Education still declining, says chart 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­spite ballyhooed efforts at edu­cation reform, student achievement is continuing a de­cline that began three years ago, the government said Wednesday in a controversial report. 
Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos said the annual state­by-state performance chart, popularly called the wall chart, "makes it clear that, as a na­tion, we are still not seriously committed to improving educa­tion for all Americans." 
The chart has been criticized as promoting flawed data and making unfair state compar­isons. Timothy Dyer, executive director of the National Asso­ciation of Secondary School Prineipals, said Amnrican "young people are simply too complex to hang on a wall." 
The chart, he said, "has as much to offer educational im­provement as the Edsel offered the automotive industry." 
Cavazos, however, defended the chart. 
"It is the only national mea­surement of educational per­formance," he said. "It's the best that we have. Until we de­velop other measures, we will have to rely on the wall chart." 
Officials say the White House argued for abandoning the 7­year-old practice this year be­cause President Bush and the nation's governors had worked to develop national education goals and still are devising more accurate forms of assessment. 
The report found that the av­erage American College Testing Program examination scores declined nationally by 0.2 of a 

~:;::;:;::;:::;:;::;;:;;:;::;:;;=:::;:::;:;:;:;:;;:;:;;;:;::;;:;~~~ri~~;:;;:;;:;:;;:;;~_;;,~~r:;_;;:.;~~~;_;~;.;,~;._~;.;.~;,;~mrTnnmrrnTll:l 





REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
IF YOU RENTED A REFRIGERATOR AT THE FALL MALL IT MUST BE RETURNED. 
WHEN: FRI MAY 4TH 2PM--5PM WHERE: STEPAN BASKETBALL COURTS 
The refrigerators MUST be CLEAN, DRY and DEFROSTED in order to receive your deposit. 

NO EXCEPTIONS 
share ideas toward instruction.
Bonello 
both in and out of the class-continued from page 1 room. 
The creation of the college teaching in the college. "We fellow's office followed a 1986 have to raise the discourse on report by the College's Commit-this subject," he said, "rather tee on Undergraduate Advising. than simply say that we need to The seven-member panel, sup-do something but not actually ported by a grant from the Lilly do anything." lie hopes to Endowment Inc., recommended sponsor seminars with top appointing a college fellow, as University administrators and well as a number of other prac­award-winning teachers to tical me~ns of reinforcl!!g_ 
point, to 18.6, from 1988 to 1989, while the average Scholastic Aptitude Test scores declined by one point, to 903, during the same period. 
A perfect ACT score is 36; a perfect SAT score is 1,600. 
The test scores are used by colleges and universities as one standard of admission. 
The report said that the states with the highest gradua­tion rates in 19H8 were Min­nesota at 90.9 percent, North Dakota 8H.3 percent, Wyoming H8.3 percent, Montana H7.3 pnrcent and Iowa H5.H percent. 
Stat11s with the lowest gradu­ation rates in 198H wer11 Florida at 58 percent, tlw Dis­trict of Columbia 58.2 percent, Georgia 61 percent, Arizona 
61.1 percent and Louisiana 
61.4 percent. 
teaching and advising, to over­come a major roadblock to Notre Dame's commitment to undergraduate education. 
A major goal of collegiate fellow program is to deal with the reality of today's Notre Dame: a co-educational, na­tional research-teaching insti­tution where few faculty live on campus and few students find it 11asy to meet with faculty outside the classroom. 
In his 22 years on the Notre Dame faculty, Bonello has taught "every kind of course, from lecture classes of more than 600 to Core Course and Freshmen Seminars." He has won two teaching awards from Notre Dame: the Thomas P. Madden Award, in 1973, for excellence in the teaching of freshmen, and the Charles E. Sheedy Award, in 1984, for ex­cellence in teaching in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. 
He earned his doctorate in economics from Michigan State University. 

Salaries 
continued from page 1 
rating in. each of the professo­rial ranks by 1985." 
O'Meara said that these rec­ommendations go hand-in­hand. By 1985, the average faculty salaries of each of the professorial ranks were within the top 20th percentile and had a number-one AAUP rating. In the 1984-1985 academic year, the average salaries of full, as­
sociate, and assistant profes­sors ranked 35th, 11th, and 16th, respectively. 
page 8 The Observer 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 
Support 
March of Dimes 
-BUHU OHECTS FOUNDATION­


AP Photo

Labor Day Rally 
Protest placards urging the closure of U. S. bases in the Philippines dominate Labor Day celebrations COURSE OFFERINGS by militant workers belonging to the KMU (May First Movement) at Ouirino grandstand in Manila Tuesday. More than 50,000 workers turned out in one of the biggest leftist rallies. 


Anti-apartheid talks begin 
CAPETOWN, South Africa (AP)-President F.W. de Klerk and African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela on Wednesday urged the swift abolition of apartheid and began historic talks aimed at ending white-minority rule. 
The three days of meetings are to remove obstacles to full­scale negotiations on a new constitution that would give the 28-million black majority a voice in national affairs for the first time. 
De Klerk and Mandela, standing on the lawn of a Dutch colonial mansion where the talks were held, said South Africans of all races want swift change. All political parties must work toward a peaceful solution to racial and political divisions, they said. 
Nearby, the pro-apartheid Conservative Party walked out of a debate in Parliament to protest the talks. The Conser­vative leader. Andries Treur­nicht, said the government should not negotiate with an organization that has carried out guerrilla attacks and still was committed to armed struggle. 
"South African law forbids all these actions," said Treur­nicht, whose party is the main opposition in Parliament's white chamber. The tri-cameral Parliament also has chambers for people of mixed-race and Indian descent. Blacks are ex­cluded. 
Mandela, in a statement be­fore the talks began, said: "The pace at which we move to ar­rive at a just solution should be informed by the fact that the black masses of our country demand and expect fundamen­tal change now. and not tomor­row." 
"The people as a whole want the peace and stability that can only come about as a result of the total abolition of the apartheid system," he said. 
But de Klerk warned that vio­
lence that has claimed more than 500 lives in the past three months threatens such change. Much of the violence has been among black groups with dif­fering views of a future South Africa. 
"The vast majority of South Africans desire the negotiation process, aimed at a new consti­tution, to get started in all earnestness," de Klerk said. "The government wishes this to happen as soon as possible and is consequently approaching the talks with the utmost earnestness.'' 
The ANC demands the release of all political prisoners, lifting of the state of emergency and the return of exiled activists as preconditions to constitutional negotiations. 
The government, meanwhile, is demanding the ANC, a guer­rilla movement, renounce its largely dormant armed strug­gle. 
The talks are the first be­tween a white government and an ANC delegation since the or­ganization was founded in 1912. The discussions are being held at the Groote Schuur es­tate, once the official home of South African presidents. 
Security for the meeting was strict. Scores of uniformed po­lice and plainclothes security agents guarded the house and grounds. 
The two sides said they plan to make no further comment on the talks until they adjourn Friday. 
In his statement before the talks began, Mandela at­tempted to calm white fears about a black government, say­
ing  whites  would  enjoy  full  
rights in  a  non-racial demo­ 
cratic state.  

He made part of his remarks in Afrikaans, the language of the Dutch-descended Afrikan­ers. They comprise 3 million of the country's 5 million whites and dominate the government. 
Mandela, the ANC's deputy president, was released in February after 27 years in jail for helping to launch the ANC's armed struggle. He is the de facto leader of the group, whose president, Oliver Tambo, last year suffered a stroke. 
Mandela called the talks a historic turning point marking the end of a "servant and mas­ter" relationship between blacks and whites. 

Nonviolent Social Change 
-David Cortright and Michael Affleck 
U.S. Policy Toward Latin America 
-Michael Francis 


Social Ethics -Joe Holland (June 4 -June 15) 
Environment and Security 
-Joseph Miller 

20th Century Ar.erican Peace Movements 
-Patricia McNeal 

The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Bubar, and Freire 
-Aiven Neiman and Basil O'Leary 
Contemporary International Issues and Conflicts 
-Sharon O'Brien (July 2-July 27) 
Conflict Resolution 
-Gary Zimmerman (June 4-June 15) 


For the 1990 Summer Session Bulletin call 219-239-6970 or write: 
Summer Session 1990 Institute for International Peace Studies University ofNotre Dame •Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
Credits applicable to MAin Peace Studies. 
.....
------~-~--~-----------~---~---·~·­
Thursday, May 3, 1990 

Baltic takes a step toward compromise 
MOSCOW (t\1'1 -Lithuania's pn•sid1~nt said Wednesday his Baltic rnpublk would consider suspPndin~ temporarily some of tlw pro-independence laws that drovn tlw Kremlin to im­posP an nconomie embar~o two WPPks ago. 
l'r!!sidl~nt Vytautas Lands­lwrgis agrnml to tlw step in a lntWr to J:rmwh and W1~st Ger­man ll'adnrs who last week proposPd that such a compro­mis!! would lwlp start negotia­tions bntwnnn tlw rnpublk and Moscow. 
"Everything is negotiable which dons not question thn matlnr of n~stored indepen­delli'P of the Lithuanian state on March I I. IIJIJO," l.andsber­gis said in his letter to Frnneh l'rPsidPnt Francois Mitterrand and West G1~rman Chancellor llnlmut Kohl. 
The lntter was read to Lithuania's parliament, the Suprnnw Council. which gave its approval without a vote, said t\idas Palubinskas, a spokesman for thn parliament. 
"Putting our eonfidnnce in France and the Federal Hepub­lie of Germany, as well as in other Western democracies, and in tlwir support of Lithua­nian democracy, we are asking you to transmit to the Soviet authorities our consent to con­sider a temporary suspension of the effects of the decisions tak!!n by the sovereign parlia­ment of the Lithuanian Hepublic that could trouble the Soviet authorities,"· Landsbergis wrotn. 
Thn idea behind the proposal from France and Wnst Germany was that if Lithuania temporarily suspended those laws, the Soviet Union, in re­turn, might case its pressure on thn rnpublie and also agree to talks on secession. 

The Observer/Bradford J Boehm 

Palubinskas stressed that the proposal from Kohl and Mit­terrand did not ask for rescind­ing the declaration itself, but urged the suspension of laws passed to implement the inde­pendence declaration. 
Lithuania declared indepen­dence on March 11, trying to restore the freedom it enjoyed before 1940, when the Soviet Union forcibly annexed it along with Latvia and Estonia. It has since passed laws designed to back the independence drive, including ending conscription of Lithuanians into the Soviet army. 

Pac&Ship  
specializing in UPS service We will be on the Notre Dame and St. Mary•s campuses for your convenience: Notre Dame Saint Mary•s Stepan Center LeMans Parking Lot May 8-11 May 8-11 1pm-5:30pm 1pm-5:30pm May 15-18 May 15-18 1pm-5:30pm 1pm-5:30pm 10% OFF FOR STUDENTS!!  
or visit open dallyPac&Ship 9-5 Sat 10am -7277-7748 115 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637  


AP Photo The body of a Mohawk found along River Road in Syne, Quebec, on the St. Regis Reservation lies as it was found Tuesday afternoon. It was the second Mohawk death that has occurred recently near where anti­gambling forces have engaged in gun battles wi~h pro-gambling forces. 
Two Mohawks slain over gambling dispute 
ST. HEGIS INDIAN HESER­VATION, N.Y. (AP) -Heavily armed police poured into this Mohawk reservation after two people were slain, but Gov. Mario Cuomo on Wednesday ruled out force to put down a 9-month-old dispute over gam­bling. 
U.S. and Canadian police sealed off the 14,000-acre reservation that straddles the border. 
Cuomo said he had ordered the New York Army National Guard to assist state police but would not order guardsmen onto the reservation. 
"We will not send military force because of the risk of bloodshed, because of what it would provoke," Cuomo told reporter in Albany. 
"Before you use military force you should use the force of reason." 
New York State Police carry­ing shotguns and the Quebec Provincial Force entered the reservation Tuesday night and Wednesday after weeks of vio­lence between pro-and anti-gambling factions culminated in the shooting deaths of two Mohawk men earlier in the day. 

Cuomo said the National Guard was used to transport troopers and provide equipment at armories in nearby towns. 
On the Canadian side, Cana­dian troops provided communi­cations assistance. 
State troopers denied entry onto the reservation to every­one but residents. They would not divulge the number of troopers on the reservation, but residents said the combined 
Happy Birthday .--~__,;;;;;;.L__..a rry Hugh e s 

Loue, 
om, Dad, 



and the family 
Happy Bi ay Chris Ciervo 
Love, Mom, Dad, Andi, Melinda, Barbara, Lee, and Lois. 

U.S.-Canadian police forces 
numbered in the hundreds. 
"We've got an armed inva­

sion," said Diane Lazores, a 
spokeswoman for the Warrior 
Society, an armed pro-gambling 
group. 
Lazores said state police also 

were restricting movement· of 
residents within the reservation 
despite promises made before 
the action. 
"If they want an international 

incident, they're going to get 
one," she said. 
The reservation was peaceful 

Wednesday after nearly a 
month of nights filled with spo­
radic gunfire and brawls. 
Young Mohawk children 

waited for their school bus be­
side armed state troopers, 
while many other Mohawks of 
all ages stayed at home. 
''I'm not venturing out," said 

reservation resident Jack Hu­
bert, a recent retiree. "I don't 
want to spend my golden years 
being shot at." 
Hubert, like the large major­

ity of the 14,000 people living 
on the reservation, has taken 
no direct part in the feuding 
between the two Mohawk fac­
tions. 
"We're not all looking to get 

shot, just a few are," he said . 
Up to 600 Mohawks Oed to a refugee center in Ontario last week after a week of nightly vi­olence. 
Junior Edwards, whose body was found near his home in Snye, Quebec, on Tuesday, was described by members of the Warrior Society as pro-gam­bling. Matthew Pyke was shot to death early Tuesday while walking to the house of a fellow anti-gambling activist. 
Officials said the deaths prompted state police to break their policy of not setting foot on the reservation unless in­vited by Mohawk leaders. 
State police Capt. Hichard Garrant said troopers would stay on Mohawk land to "maintain some type of stabil­ity" until further orders arrivpd from the governor's officn. 
t\ mndiator from the U.S. Jus­tice Department who has helped the Mohawks resolve other disputes was en route. 
"I don't know what my role will be until I get there. We'II talk to every party," said fed­eral mediator Fletcher Graves, from New York City. 
Barbara Barnes, spokeswoman for the anti­gambling faction, said she was glad that police would be on the reservation. 

THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
FOURTH ANNUAL 



Student Appreciation Sale 
10o/o Off Your Purchases* 
MAY 4, 1990 Just Show Your I.D. Card 
r----------------~------------------r-----------------iI 
MEN'S I ZIP-DEE I WEBER I
I BIKE I LAWN CHAIR I OUTDOOR GRILL I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
lname I .l'lame ! name II
IAddress I Address 1 Addtas'IIWCI~---­1 Phone I Phone I Phone I I I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I 




~---------------~------------------~-----------------· 
I I WAGON I
MOBILITE 1 1 STUDENT DRAWING
1


I FLOOR LAMP I I TABLE 
1 I I
11
1 Register to Win 1
1


1 Register to Win
1 I a I 
1 I Radio Flyer Wagon 1 a Drawing Table I I Town and Country I lrtame 1Name Irtame-----
IAddress 1 Address 1 Address____ I Phone IPhone . I Phone_____ 



L----------------~------------------~-----------------J 
THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
*NOT APPLICABLE TO-TEXTBOOKS, CASSETTES, CD'S, FILM, FILM PROCESSING & 
HEALTH AND BEAUTY AIDS. 
The Observer 




Business
page 11 
Thursday, May 3, 1990 

Student business managers share experiences, insight 
Competition caused troubles for Cellar 
By STEVE LAWRENCE 
Many of tho people reading this articln havn no knowledge of the workings of tho Cellar. other than what they have read in this rwwspapor. Therefore, when I was given the opportu­nity to write about my oxperi­nnens as a manager of a stu­dent-run business, I decided to ust~ it to dear up some miscon­ceptions about thn Cellar and explain why it is turning into a video rental store next year. 
Thnw busirwssns make up the Student Business Board: the Cnllar, Irish c;ardens and Ad­works. Each business manager has a seat on thn Business Board, along with the student body treasurer. a representa­tive from Studnnt Senate, the student body president or vice­prosidnnt and the Business Board gennral manager. Collec­tively, this board helps oversee tlw general running of the businesses, making suggestions and recommendations where needed. Each manager is di­rectly responsible for the daily 
operations of his business while llw gennral manager performs an accounting role as well as serving many other roles for lhe busirwsses. 
When I started out as man­agP.r of the Cellar in 1987, this business board did not exist. As it was explained to me by Dan Walsh, one of thn chief p~ople responsible for writing the Business Board constitution, the Business Board and the po­sition of Business Board Gen­eral Manager were created to centralize accounting and ac­countability for the businesses' revnnues. At that time the busi­nesses' mission was defined as providing a service to the stu­dents on a break-even basis. 
This mission statement posed a stwern problem for the Cellar. Unlike Irish Gardens or Ad­works at that time, we did not have a monopoly on campus. Not only did we not have the spacn for the inventory that the bookstore had, we also could not accept bookstore charge cards. This made it hard for us to compete, because as anyone knows, if you charge a tape on your bookstore charge account, your parents have no way of knowing that you did not spend this money on books or some other necessity. So, in order to make a go of it, I decided to target the alternative "college" music niche. This seemed to be an area where the bookstore was wt~ak, and our staff had some knowledge about this type of music. I also hoped that by charging prices generally lower than the bookstore, we could draw some people in to look for a tape or album first. before going to another store. 
This strategy met with limited success over the next two years. While we still were not breaking even, business had substantially increased from when I started. I was not overly concerned with the loss because we were still in a growth stage and were attempting some new strategies such as doing away with albums altogether and drastically increasing the COs we stocked. 
It was this school year that this situation came to a head. The size of our store and our inadequate display equipment proved to be a major barrier to our growth. I brought this fact up at several of our Business Board meetings and stated that we desperately needed to spend some money on renovations for the store. It seemed that there was always some other press­ing concern however, and we were constantly being relegated to the back burner. 
At the last Business Board meeting I attended, we received our income statements and once again we were posting a loss. I was not worried about this because we generally make up a lot of this money at the end of the year, as we reduce our orders and hold a sale to clear out some stock. I took this opportunity, however, to once again tell the Business Board· that part of the reason we were posting a loss was be­cause of the inadequate state of our store. When asked what I thought could be done about it, I proposed three options. First, I said that they could let it con­tinue as it had been doing and hope that profits from the 
other two businesses would offset our losses. Secondly, I offered that they could pump some money into the store and buy some new equipment in order to better utilize storage and display space. Finally, I suggested they cancel the Coun­try Harvester's lease, take down the wall between the two stores and use the additional space for more CO's and tapes and also start renting videos (my own personal favorite of the three alternatives). 
After making these proposals I sat back in horror as all three were scrapped and the Board began discussing closing the music side of the store com­pletely and converting the Cellar into a video rental store. At first, I was opposed to the idea on a purely emotional level. After thinking about it awhile, however, I realized that the campus really did need a video rental store. I do not see why having a video rental store should require the closing of the music store, but the powers that be have decided it should be so. 
In closing, I would like to wish Steve Perkins (the new manager of the Cellar) luck in starting up the new video store next year. I just hope that in this business venture, the Busi­ness Board will give the Cellar all the support it needs. It seems to me that they have al­ready doomed it to failure, however, by relegating it to the same small, out-of-the-way space in LaFortune. If this does not handicap it and if it re­ceives adequate funding, I am sure it will succeed. 
Flower preparation takes more effort than it seems 
By LIZ CIOTTI, 


MATT SPATZ 
and the rest of the IG 


staff 
You know, kids, there's an 
organization of people on 
campus that doesn't get the 
recognition it deserves. No, 
this isn't a complaint; we 
just want to let you know 
what we're about. 
Every morning at 5:30 the 
dedicated workers at 'Irish 
Gardens are awake and 
readying their fine wares for 
their fellow members of the 
Notre Dame community. 
What are they doing, you 
ask? Well, there's a lot more 
that goes into flowers than 
the final product might sug­
gest. 
First the ground must be tilled with a delicacy found only in the finest jewelers. Each row is then sown with seeds imported from around the world--including Mexico, Holland and Hawaii. These budding flowers are polli­nated by Guatemalan bum­blebees, each of whom is screened for purity and pedigree. When the flowers have come to fruition, the arduous bunch of employees carefully hand pick only the choicest buds. 

Each employee is a certi­fied florist and a member of the National Horticulture Foundation. Degrees range from a masters in flower husbandry to a doctorate in agricultural anthropology. 
"Agricultural anthropology is not a joke! It is a serious tool utilized to unlock the multiplicity of ... uh, it helps us learn stuff." -Pat Koepp! 
But seriously, our aim is to please. We're here for the students--the real students. Yes, we at IG understand the plight of the poverty­stricken, desolate college student. Thus we fought a long, hard battle against raising our prices as the people "on high" wished. 
More importantly, though, we care about eaeh other in this little family of ours. He­spec!. That's the key. And dedication. 
"Boy this place is great! The respect between the employees and the flowers is tremendous. I've never seen such floral friendship. It's a team effort. I really must commend the florists on their positive attitude all year long." -Hich Pagen 
"Each day as I gaze over the vast expanse of Califor­nia Redwoods and Texas Bluebonnets we raised from pups, tears well up in my tired, color-blind eyes. Work­ing at this fine floral facility fills me with fabulous felic­ity. It's the greatest thing since the belly button lint remover." -Margie Manzano 
We all encourage and sup­port each other. We tell the flowers to grow like champi­ons today. Heflecting back on this year, we remember how we all laughed. We cried. We screamed. We made floral combinations customers never dreamed of. How did we do it? Volume! (And a great campus monopoly!) 
There is little left to say, except, thanks for the mem­ories, the pollen, the thorn cuts, the Texas chainsaw roses, the stupid customer comments, and the lasting relationships we have all de­veloped. Thanks for the beautiful products of nature we have come to know and love. And to the seniors, whose every mushy note we've read, we've guts just one thing to say to youse guys, How 'bout a red rose? 
Adworks offers broad business experience for students 

By CHRISTINA FALLON 
With all of the recent Bookstore Basketball hype, you may have wondered for one brinf moment, where the campus-famous (or infamous) Adworks basketball team got its name. As President Emeritus of the Adworks Advertising Network, I would like to provide some background. As one of only three completely student-run businnsses on campus, it offers tho broadest business experience available for students of all majors, with opportunities not simply in retail, but also in areas such as marketing, management, finance, graphic design, sales, and public relations, to name a few. 
Adworks celebrated its fifth birthday this spring, and the organization has seen many changes since that first semester in 1985. Originally established to fill a need for greater publicity and promotional capabilities for student groups, its founders focused on one-color posters, photocopied flyers, and hand­drawn table tents as mainstream production. What a change we've seen. Now Adworks decorates the campus with multi-colored, glossy advertising complete with computer-generated designs, not to mention a v~st increase in product lines, to include a professional resume consulting service, original Observer ads, and unlimited novelty item possibilities, which include cups, hats, t-shirts, programs, 
business  cards, signs,  ... you  
name it.  
Yet, perhaps  the  most  

valuable service Adworks offers to the University community is that of an educational business experience that cannot be found in any classroom. The 
organizational structure of the company was modeled closely on that or professional advertising agencies in both New York and Chicago, to ensure that Adworks provided students with as much of a real-world atmosphere as possible. Because of its young age and continually changing and growing clientele, employees and managers are continually challenged to re­evaluate product lines, negotiate agreements with outside vendors and printers, and explore profitability of current departments, not to 
mention embark on bizarre brainstorming sessions to produce unique logos or slogans for some of the more regular clients. Furthermore, Adworks managers face daily challenges inherent in their "middle-man" status, as success is dependent not only on internal performance, but also on that of outside suppliers. 
Continually striving to provide the best service possible in a professional 
atmosphere, Adworks recently established a Board of Directors, which is consulted regularly for insight and advice. The Board consists of Notre Dame alumni currently working in marketing, computer graphics, and advertising-related fields, university administrators, and a few former Adworks founders and executives. Organizations currently represented on the Board include Coca-Cola USA, Young & Rubicam NY, Monarch Hydraulics, Inc., and the House 
of Representatives. The group meets biannually, to discuss major professional business issues, as well as problems inherent in small agency situations. 
Adworks is a young agency seeking to do big things. It can 
only grow and flourish as enthusiastic students continue to get involved and try their hand at advertising. The executive team values advisory Board of Directors, yet autonomous decision making is imperative in order for continued educational benefit for all involved. Trying to work out some of the kinks inherent in such a unique service is one of the major challenges facing its employees continually. With the continued suggestions, ideas, and participation of enthusiastic students, Adworks 
will  continue  to  meet  the  
changing  needs  of  its  
environment.  

So next time you hear Adworks, don't just think high­powered basketball; think high­powered business experience. 
The columnists for today 's business page were student business managers during 1989-90. Steve Lawrence was manager of the Cellar, 
Li~ Ciotti was manager of 
lrzsh Gardens and Christina 
Fallon was manager of 
Adworks. The opinions 
expressed do not necessarily 
reflect those of The 
Observer 



Viewpoint
page 12 Thursday, May 3, 1990 
-., Ihe Observer___ 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 199Q-91 General Board 
Edhor-ln-<:hlef 
Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bualneu Manager Jolwl O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
New. Edhor·-·····---···-Kelley TuthUI AdvartlalngManagar ......... Beth Bolger VI-point Edhor ••••••••••••••.Michelle Dall Ad Dulgn Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Edhor •••••••••••••••••••••Greg Gulley Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Edhor................. Colleen Cronin Syateme Mgr .... Bernard Brennlnkrnayar Photo Edhor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint llary'e Edhor........ Corinne Pavtil Controller....................... Chris Anderaon Art Dlractor..••.............. Michael Muldoon 
The Ob~erver Ia the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It doea not neceuartly reflect the polldn of lhe admlnlatratlon of either lnatltutlon. The news Is reported u accurately and objec:llvely u possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and lnalde Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all member• of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

Powerful messages aimed at bettering
LETTERS"'f' 

society lie behind Message Rap music
Apathy toward MBA 
By Eric Silk many in the African American 
over Christian Europe

students unjustified 
community. Rappers realized 
and Greco-Roman world. 
"It's weak to seek and blame that music was, and still is, a
Dear Editor: commit to a growing, reputable This went on for a thousand 
somebody else powerful media network for years
I am writing in regard to the program. lt appears as though when you destroy yourself youth, so they began to incor­
recent absences of various they could be the variable that of ignorancec stupidity and 
First. nothing worst than a porate a message into their
chairpersons at the MBA might keep our MBA program tears. 
mother's pain music, thus giving this style of
Forum held on the evening of from reaching its full potential. Now comes the seventeenth 
ofa son slain in Benson Hurst. rap the name "message rap." 
April 30. Although all of the An MBA degree in today's busi­century hardness 
Can't wait for the state Message rap is practiced by
chairpersons had allegedly been ness world has become increas­Europe began to come out of 
to decide the fate several groups. Some of the
invited, only one {Professor ingly important. As we move its darkness. 
so this jam I dedicate style practitioners are Easy E,
Guiltinan) bothered to attend. closer to the twenty-first cen­Sp Johann F. Blumenbach 
Places with the racist faces Boogie Down Production, Public
This not only embarrassed the tury, the MBA degree will be-German 
example one ofmany places Enemy and Ice-T. Acts such as
MBA student body, but also come a necessity for "corporate came out of no where and 
they weep, and speak. I speak Easy E and Ice-T come across
insulted us. There is an overall America managers." We hope started confirming
from a lesson learned in Vir­with a hard-core, violent
lack of concern on the part of that Notre Dame possesses the white supremacy and men of 
ginia... message. They see urban soci­
the departments and their colors.
foresight and can begin to ety as a jungle and speak on the
representatives for the MBA Before this time
move towards meeting the 
When I get mad sad but true realities of the
program and students. needs of a professional busi­all men were brothers 
I put it down on a pad. .. drug world that have been evi­
Although Father Malloy has at­It was Johann
ness environment. Many in­H dent for a long time within nu­
tempted to bring about chang­who went on to say
volved are already committed --"Terrordome," merous African American
ing attitudes toward graduate to improving the program. And there are five different colors
Public Enemy communities across the coun­
programs under the dome, the in the world today. 
it is time that someone takes 
MBA program is still held and try. In my native city of Flint, I That's Caucasian, Malayan and
the initiative to get the depart­Rap music has been around have witnessed the happenings
treated as a secondary pro­Mongolian
ments committed so that our 
gram. The attitudes of the var­MBA program can excel into for a very long time. Within the that message rappers describe American Indian and Ethiopian.
ious departments towards the the future. past two decades, there has with their lyrics. Yet the ignorance gets scarier. 
MBA program can be described been a prolific amount of rap He believed whites wereemerging from the African
as pathetic. superior. 
This past fall, Business Week American community. Initially, On the other hand, groups
William Harris, MBA '90 According to his idiotic 
ranked our MBA program as the content of this music spoke like Public Enemy and Boogie fountain
Joseph Buffone, MBA '90 

one of the top up-and-coming Robert Hersh. MBA '90 only of stories from the Down Productions come across the purest whites programs in the nation. This Thomas Hillebrecht, MBA '90 experiences of the rapper in with a message which speaks were from the Caucus recognition has led to an in­question. Many of these stories about education and politics. In Mountains;
Edward Doman. MBA '90 

crease in the number and qual­were of a jocular content and contrast to Eazy E and Ice-T, A.D. Gobineau and H.S. 
ity of MBA applicants for the due to this fact, they were and Public Enemy and Boogie Down 
Chamberlain 
are not taken too seriously. Productions not only speak the entering class. Plans are cur­
both supported this outrageous
However, about four years truth concerning American so­racism. business building. New admin­
rently underway for a new ago, newly emerging artists re­ciety today, but they also send 
This went on to what the
instated a style that had been out a positive message in hopes istrative positions have been 
master race should be
created years ago by The Last of uplifting the African race.
created to meet the increasing 
and why they killed the Jews in
Poets. That style was message
demands of running a progres­
Germany.
Write 

rap. Its lyrics are profound and
sive MBA program. Current 
Here is the reason why I'm so
down your thoughts 
controversial to some, but its
students, in conjunction with 
concerned 
content is important for the "Let me continue withadministration, have developed 
and send them to 
because 
African American youth of Theodosius
an MBA alumni tracking system 
You-Must-Learn."
Viewpoint, P.O. Box 
today. a Greek ruler not know to most
which will assist future stu­
Q, Notre Dame, 
Message rap started when of us.
dents in gaining useful infor­--"You Must Learn," 
rap artists began to look at the He in the fourth century A.D. 
mation about, among other 
Indiana 46556. 
Boogie Down Productions

socio-economic condition of its closed the Egyptian schools you throughout the United States 
things, job opportunities 
predominantly African Ameri­see. and abroad. 
can audience. What these Two years later Justinian ruled. Our concern is whether or not 
artists saw was the poverty, ig­Six A.D. was it for schools norance and violence which As a result Eric Silk is in the Freshman
the departments and their re­
spective faculty are willing to 
characterized the lives of too ignorance had swirled Year ofStudies. 
QUOTE OG=" THE DAY
DOONESBURY' GARRY TRUDEAU 
7HeReS SOMiilHING VISOV4RY LA5TNICHT, 1)1(4Y,Ht/?£1 PAI?AOillT& {)()M/Cite3! Rle fn?Nt{) 2,000!COOL.,ORY,5TRONG1 IUUM­YOIJ IN BUTANY 
INATW 8Y ::oFT, f'/t-TfJI?IW 
'It I had a dollar for every hour
eFFIGY. ~-ff!.l?
UGHT.' THfl3 15 7H~ FU­
/ A7Tf?IJCT 
" 
I've studied for finals, I'd have at least $1.05.' 
7lJR& I ITU/ORKS I 
Campus Quote 



Viewpoint
Thursday, May 3, 1990 page 13 

Lithuania entitled to independence and autonomy 
8~ilius Draugelis 
From moral, legal, political, economic, diplomatic and his­torical perspectives, Lithuania dnsnrves to be recognized by the U.S. government. Admittedly, significant and misconceived implications of meognition abound. 
Lithuania's quest for inde­pnndnnee rests upon a solid moral foundation affirmed by international laws. The country was forcibly occupied by Soviet forc1~s in 1939 as a result of an illegal. non-aggression pact signed by th1~ fornign ministers of' Nazi Germany and Stalin's Sovid Hussia. 
On tlw basis of this illngal pact, as well as a rnspnct for the principle of' sPif -detnrmina­tion and human rights. the Unit<~d States has rwvPr n~eog­nizt>d tlw forcible incorporation of l.ithuania and tlw two other Baltic Statns (Latvia and J·:stonia) into tlw SoviPt Union. 
l.i t.h uan ian d i plomatie corps have carried tlw lngacy of the last legitimate governnwnt of Lithuania undm· its 1922 eon­stitution. It is this legacy, sup­planted by tlw I'122 constitu­tion. whirh has been rncogniznd by tlw United Stat!'s for 50 years as tlw only legitimate source of' any body governing l.ithuania. 
As a normal extension of thP 
U.S. non-r<~eognition policy, it snPms nntirnly plausibln for the Bush Administration to reeog­niz<~ tlw rww Lithuanian h~ader­ship. The nnw Lithuanian gov­ernment has nven resurrected thn 1922 constitution and op­nratns according to its provi­sions. Thnrt~fore. if tlw United States aflirms that the follow­ers of this 1922 constitution. like tlw diplomatic eorps, are the legitimat1~ lwirs to the lead­ership of Lithuania, then. to be consistent, the United States must ratify this 50 year old poliey by recognizing the Lithuanian government. 
One of the criticisms of the Lithuanian move is that it is politically untimely. Ambassador Earle II, for ex­ample, has said it is "a huge political mistakcfl on the part of 
Men's Volleyball Club 

elevation to varsity status at ND
•,

Dear h'ditor: 
As an active volleyball player and fan. I havn watched the sport grnw from a rarely men­tioned women's sport to a thriving women's and men's sport. Volleyball has remained popular throughout Europe and tlw West coast of the United States for the past eight to ten y1~ars, and now the rest of Anwriea has embraced the sport. Efforts by volleyball grnats, such as Olympic gold­medalists Karch Kiraly and Steve Timmons, as well pro­bnach legend Sinjin Smith, have boosted the widespread popu­larity of men's volleyball. Upon arriving at Notre Dame, I was pleased to hear that there is a men's volleyball dub on cam­pus. At first, I thought the dub would consist of a group of guys playing for fun on Saturday afternoons. Upon further investigation. I found out the dub is actually a well­eoadwd team of vollcybaU en­thusiasts. Their lengthy sched­ule includes powerful opponents like Michigan State University, Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne and Ball State University, just to name a few. 
As I watched th1 dub's 
the Lithuanians, because it puts too much pressure on President Gorbachev, at a time when he is leading the Soviet Union into tough economic reforms with­out the support of many fac­tions within and without the Soviet Communist Party. 
In a sense, Gorbachev has masterfully held the entire world agog by openly admitting to obvious problems that the Soviet Union faces; however, he has not produced any substan­tive solutions to them. The openness to criticism, the adroitness and professionalism of the Soviet leadership is un­precedented and should be commended. Yet, the world should be impressed with a man who can at least begin to addrnss his nation's problems ratlwr than with methods he uses to discover and articulate them. Gorbachev's reforms arc mere words on a slab--empty of substance. Thus, he has left others alone, such as the Lithuanians. to dnfine "glasnost" and "perestroika" in their own terms. 
Hea!Tirming their right to self-dntermination is the Lithuanians' interpn~tation of "glasnost" and "perestroika" to which Gorbachev has no an­swer. The bnlligerent show of force and c<wrcive tactics di­rected by Gorbachev in Lithuania only demonstrates his inability to offer an alterna­tive to the Lithuanians' inter­pretation. The Soviet regime has bncn sustained only through violence, coercion and fear. If violence and coercion is in fact Gorbachev's answer, then nothing has fundamentally changed. By adhering to vio­lence--the voice of disparity-­Gorbachev shows that he is not ready to be courageous and lead his country toward true reform. 
The Lithuanian leadership has been criticized for its naivete--how could they declare independence when Soviets have large radar and missiles in Lithuania, which are of major security interest? Furthermore, Lithuanians have been de facto partieipants in the Soviet political and economic system (or what is left of one) for 50 
progress over the season. I no­ticed marked improvements in the team's playing abilities. I also began to wonder why a club that can beat top-ranked varsity teams, such as Ball State University and Graceland College, is not a varsity team. Notre Dame's volleyball club practices as hard and treats volleyball as seriously as a var­sity status squad. The fighting Irish have proved their worthi­ness by defeating opponent after opponent, including club and varsity competitors. I be­lieve the club's talents have not been fully realized because of their club status. If the Notre Dame administration makes the club a varsity team, the elub will be able to compete on a varsity level. By granting the club varsity status, the admin­istration will give the men's volleyball team the boost they need to realize their full poten­tial. 
In my opinion, it is only a matter of time before the men's volleyball club is given varsity status. The growing number of fans at the games and the pop­ularity of the sport will cause an outcry for a varsity level team. The only question left is why doesn't the administration act now and let the men's vol­leyball team realize their full potential? Having a varsity men's volleyball team would not only help the players, it would also help the Notre Dame community by adding another fine varsity team to Notre Dame's roster. 
Adrian Snyder Pangborn Hall April 28, 1990 

years. Thus, they are 
practically married to the 
Soviet Union's economy. 
I agree. However, I also be­lieve that while Gorbachev may still be searching for more popular denunciations, the Lithuanians are addressing their reality and are making tough decisions that no one else wants to make. In the face of almost daily escalations, the Lithuanians have kept their re­solve and have proceeded with their specific goals. At every step of the escalation, the legit­imate government of Lithuania has restated time and again its willingness to compromise and to negotiate peacefully. The peaceful reaction to Soviet ag­gression in Lithuania illumi­nates its leaders' intentions-­as well as Gorbaehev's. 
If economic reform is still Gorbachev's goal, then I believe the Lithuanian situation offers some enticing opportunities. The Lithuanians will be friendly trading partners with the Soviet Union. After all, thanks to 50 years of stagnation, Lithuanian industry will have nothing to offer that is compet­itive in foreign markets. Therefore, the country's liveli­hood will depend almost exdu­sively on trade with the Soviet Union. But trade, most impor­tantly, will be handled in Soviet and Lithuanian currency, con­vertible in the West. By obtain­ing Lithuanian currency, the Soviets will be able to convert it and create another avenue for obtaining the foreign capital it sorely needs. 
Critics also contend that the conservative factions through­out the Soviet Union may force Gorbachev to resign as a result of negotiating with Lithuanians without them retracting their reaffirmation of independence. This nascent recognition of the legitimate government of Lithuania, they conclude, would set back the momentum of re­form, political or otherwise, and would create a potential Cold War atmosphere. 
Though there is a conserva­tive opposition that would cer­tainly raise a scandalous uproar over the recognition of the legitimacy of the 

deserves 
Lithuanian's March 11 rein­statement of independence, however, it, as of yet, does not have a alternative political leader who could embody their discontent and force Gorbachev to resign. 
In lieu of this analysis, the world's leaders must rethink their policy of silence toward the Soviet Union. By recogniz­ing the legitimate government of Lithuania, the Bush Administration would allow Gorbachev to gripe a bit, let go of his nationalities' crisis a bit 
and then  concentrate  on  true  
economic  reforms.  If  the  
domino theory in  reverse  be­ 

comes a reality and other re­publics would like to secede, then Gorbachev should negoti­ate and transform these hostile occupied lands into friendly neighbors and lucrative trading partners. 
Mutual interests would bn taken into account during ne­gotiations. Obviously, the Soviet Union has great security inter­ests in Lithuania. The Soviet Army could conceivably have bases in Lithuania, just as the United States has bases in Japan, for example. It would have to give up its responsibility to the Lithuanian people to provide a livelihood and a rule of law. Lithuanians must swal­low some national pride and accept a formidable Soviet mili­tary presence. Why not? Soldiers would provide a lucra­tive market for goods. Foreign policy should be relinquished by the Kremlin. This is a matter of the Kremlin's pride that it must swallow. Why? Given the popu­lar support Gorbachev has re­ceived over the Lithuanian plight, a large country's inter­
ests will not be threatened by a small and struggling country such as lithuania. 
By negotiating, the Kremlin recognizes only the supremacy of the Lithuanian parliament over basically daily affairs of state • and government. Obviously, it will have a tremendous influence over for­eign policy. Its economy will not suffer from losing one of its most productive territories. One could liken the new situa­tion to a type of Eastern 
Inaccurate information on transfer students clarified 
The Observer's two-part College or Saint Mary's appli­series on transfer students un­cants. fortunately contained several factual errors and misleading --Transfer students are eval­quotations. To prevent further uated by the college to which phone calls and inquiries from they apply. The Admissions 
confused applicants, parents Office oversees the process and and faculty, I would like to set communicates the decisions 
the record straight with the made by the college committees. following facts. Tuesday's article described a --Notre Dame receives ap­student as being "placed in the proximately 700 transfer appli­College of Business." This is 
cations each year for an aver­inaccurate. She "ended up" in age of 150 openings. Business because that is the --The largest single source of college to which she applied. transfer applications is Holy Cross College, followed by Saint 
Mary's College. However, the Susan C. Joyce vast majority of the .700 appli­Assistant Director and cations come from other insti­Transfer Coordinator tutions. No special considera­Undergraduate Admissions tion is given to Holy Cross May2, 1990 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Europe of old as far as foreign policy is concerned. Yet the new political and economic oppor­tunities not present in the Eastern Europe of old would abound in this new. sophisti­cated and negotiated rfllation­ship. 
Many fear reversion to a Cold War atmospherfl. This Cold War of old, however, involved airlifts to Berlin and invasions of Czechoslovakia and Hungary. Obviously, this imagery does not fit the present picture of the "harsh realities" of the international community. Eastern Europe is free, and the Kremlin cannot have it back without instigating a war. The Soviet economy cannot sustain a war, let alonn its political reputation. 
The Lithuanian experience proves that one can be serious about human rights without being unrealistic, unpolitical and ineffective in thn real world. The U.S.'s moral obliga­tion has very positive implica­tions in the "real worldfl eon­text as discussed here. HPcognizing the legitimate gov­ernment of Lithuania is, there­rom, a choieP that is as realistic as it is moral. 
The Bush administration holds the kny to this human dilmnma. For example, it has shown this compassion in its support of thn May-June demonstrators in China. Yet. it did not follow completely through in its support of them. 
Lithuanians are not necessarily dissatisfied with their own government, but with a government that is not their own. By recognizing the legitimate government of Lithuania, Bush will allow a leadership already in power to implement tough policies to a willing and able population. All Bush has to do is put the key in the hole and unlock the door to the international community for the Lithuanian people. 
Gailius Draugelis is a junior government and international studies/Japanese major. 
• 
-




Accent
page 14 
Thursday, May 3, 1990 

why I dissed them. I learned we YOLANDA KNIGHT earned, got no concern. Instead accent writer we burned, so where the hell is 
JFear of a Black Planet' 
our return? Plain and simple, the 

After a hiatus of a year and a systems a pimp. But I refuse to be half, Public Enemy has returned Public Enemy's latest album provides strong message a ho" with Fear of a Black Planet, an The above quote captures the album whose message serves to overall tone of this album. Fear of raise the consciousness of a Black Planet is angry, defiant, African-American youth. and hopeful, because despite the 
Thumpin' with a "brand new many attacks against the "Black funk," inspired by the message of nation," Public Enemy Minister Louis Farrakhan and the encourages the youth, the future, soul of James Brown, and to combat the "powers" which sprinkled with the bass lines of attempt to keep Africans from pure Parliament funk, the reclaiming their true history and polyrhythmic sound of the music heritage with the most forceful arouses in many listeners an weapon, knowledge of the truth. indescribable emotion born of a "Revolutionary Generation" pride in their African heritage recognizes the struggle of Black and the reality of the continuous women throughout their struggle of Black people in the persecution in America. "They 
U.S. and the world. disrespected mama and treated 
The all-encompassing theme of her like dirt. America took her, re­Fear of the Black Planet is the shaped her, raped her. Why is it imminent reemergence of that we're many different shades. Africans, according to the con­Black woman's privacy invaded troversial group, in both Africa years and years. You cannot and throughout the world. count my mama's tears" However, Chuck D, the "lyrical He praises the black woman for terrorist," does not ignore those her incredible endurance obstacles which delay Africans' throughout the struggle. With the return to greatness. Black Woman leading the way, he 
One of the more obvious ob­is confident that our generation stacles, says Chuck D, is inter­will bring about change. "Sister ... racial marriage. He claims that soul sister, we goin' be all right. It this act is wrong when committed takes a man to take a stand. by black people who are knowledge that "White comes opinion toward the idea of Black against the Enemy and any other Under-stand, it takes a woman to influenced by a system which from Black" requires honor and inferiority. However, those more nigger with an attitude...and any make a stronger man... 'cause teaches that "White" is better. respect for Blacks who are the educated realize that what is other rapper whose a brother we'll be stronger together" The song, "Polly-wanacracka," origin of humankind, and the to­shown by the media, is not the who try to speak for ... [other criticizes "the system [which] has tal integration of Black and White totality of African American brothers] gets smothered by the The album, Fear of the Black no wisdom ... and [teaches that] would lead to the dissolution of existence. other kind." Media seems to Planet, goes beyond the theme of White is good, Black is bad." the White race, resulting in a Because of this negativity, Big work to stifle Black unity and the title track. It addresses the 
Chuck also comments on in­Black planet. Daddy Kane encourages African organization by painting a imminent state of the black nation terracial relationships from the The second obstacle addressed Americans to "make our own negative picture of those who recapturing their glorious past perspective of some Whites. by Public Enemy is the negative movies like Spike Lee 'cause the present a message which once they have overcome the "Fear of a Black Planet," the title portrayal of Blacks by the media roles being offered don't strike threatens their position, rather obstacles of negative media and track, expresses the anxiety of which perpetuates low self­me." Chuck D demonstrates than confronting the issues low self-images, born of an some White males concerning the images in Black youth. In "Burn emotion through the lyrics: "For themselves. ignorance of their past. "mixing of Black and White," Hollywood Burn," Chuck D all the years we looked like Along with presenting those which rises from Mendel's collaborated with rappers Ice clowns, the joke is over. Smell the obstacles which suppress the In a broader sense, Fear of the Genetics law that Black genes are Cube of N.W.A. and Big Daddy smoke from all around. Burn progress of Africans in America Black Planet, refers to the white dominant, while White genes are Kane to counter the unfair Hollywood burn!" and throughout the world, Public supremacists' fear that Black recessive. treatment of Blacks in the media, "War at 33 1/3" portrays the Enemy addresses the question of unity, Black nationalism, and 
Chuck D comments on this primarily in television and film. negative media attention aimed responsibility for the "war" Black strength will lead to the seldom-discussed fact: "Excuse "Get me the hell away from this at controlling public opinion. against African Americans. In claiming of the reparations owed us for the news. You might not be T.V. All this news and views are Specifically, Public Enemy and "Who Stole the Soul?" the answer to African people for the duration amused, but did you know White beneath me." other black leaders, like Minister seems to be the institutional and extent of the genocide comes from Black? No need to be Here, Chuck D expresses his Louis Farrakhan, who speak of racism and injustices which are perpetrated against them for 400 confused." Why must they be frustration with news that often the causes of the anger and aimed at minimizing the image of years . Despite the actions to stifle excused? Why might those who accentuates the negative aspects frustration of African Americans Black people. "The bigger the their return, says Public Enemy, oppose the mixing of the races of the Black community, con­today, are targets of the media. Black gets the bigger the feds "the Black is back revolving to an not be amused? Because the stantly attempting to sway public "Sorry majority grudging want a piece of that... booty. That's [unstoppable] renaissance." 
Minority recruits experience taste of ND student life 
They sent out letters to students, themselves, and were under the "does not carry over into the honest view of campus life,
CAROL DOMINGUEZ 

parents, and schools, made travel false pretense that they would school year. Because of the encouraging more minority
accent writer 

arrangements, contacted student always be surrounded by their weekend, the recruits have enrollment and more student hosts, and scheduled own race." friends from all different diversity.
During the past several years, informational talks and fun Kathy Joseph, a sophomore, cultures."

the University of Notre Dame, activities. tried not to shelter her recruit Since only a fraction of all Notre Dame competes with like most other colleges around The recruits met with financial from any aspect of NO. However, minority prospective freshman many top institutions for these the United States, has pledged to aid officers, admissions she agrees with Magallon in that are selected for the weekend, the quality students. Therefore,increase minority enrollment and counselors, and college deans. "the purpose of the weekend is to committee is also responsible for students, faculty, rectors, andto create a culturally diverse, yet They also had a session with cater to minorities, but minorities contacting those who do not administrators welcome andsocially integrated campus University President Father are not catered to on this attend. The students receive participate in events that sell atmosphere. Progressing toward Malloy. In keeping with a Domer campus." letters and various Observer recruits on Notre Dame. Allenthis goal, the University recently tradition, the prospects and their A participant in the 1988 mi­articles that deal with the states: "The University made ahosted its annual Minority hosts had an evening of bowling. nority weekend, Joseph states: minority's place at Notre Dame. commitment to minorities, ourVisitation Weekend. 

The weekend ended with a "When I came, everything was Allen hopes that communications jobs are to make sure that they This year, 101 admitted high dinner and dance in the played up highly, but when I ac­such as these will present an hold to that commitment." 
school seniors from California to Monogram Room on Saturday tually arrived in the fall, it was aLondon attended the highly night. different place. No one ever toldorganized event. All minority The primary goal of the me I wouldn't be getting enough students from Indiana and the weekend, according to Gandy, is scholarship money or about the surrounding states were invited to provide an "opportunity for campus tension. I went into and the remainder of the partic­students to visit the campus. shock because it was totallyipants were selected on the Otherwise, many couldn't afford different from what I had seen."
quality of their applications. 

to come on their own. This is a Both acknowledge, though, that Because the University pays for chance for them to communicate the program at least brings the entire weekend, including with present minority students. quality minority students to the travel costs, the program is fi­We provide them with a realistic · campus.
nancially limited and must ex­and wholistic view of NO from a In defense of the weekend, clude many other admitted mi­minority perspective." student coordinators Allen andnorities. Derek Gandy, admis­However, this "realistic view" Brown placed the burden of re­sions counselor and director of was disputed by two of the stu­alism on the hosts' shoulders. The the weekend, estimates that dent hosts. Freshman Maria former argued that the most the approximately 60% of the par­Magallon agrees with the theory University can do is to bring the 

• ticipants will matriculate to Notre of the program, but says that the students to the campus, after that Dame in the fall. 
weekend "doesn't give the "it comes down to how the host The planning for this event recruits a taste of student life." feels about the University. 
began in January with Calvin She claims that within the Negative feelings may discourageAllen, a junior, and Laura Brown, minority group itself, the Black the recruits." Brown added that a sophomore, co-chairing a and Hispanic students segregated the idea of racial homogeneity committee of dedicated students. 



-
Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classmeds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
I 
I I 
NOTICES 
UPS ON CAMPUS 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
239·6174 · LAFORTUNE 
WE TAPEI WE LABEL! WE SHIPI 
$100 FREE INSURANCE 
Discounts Available 
""MOVING OFF-CAMPus·· Need Furniture (beds, tables, desks, couch, etc...), then call272­6117. All furniture must be sold! SoCALLNOWI 
TYPING term 
papers/reports/letters/resumes 
Pick up & delivery available. 
277-5134 Cathy 
Need term papers or resumes 
typed? Call Joanne 287-6005 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-1837 
$$$FOR TEXTBOOKS I 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
Corner of NO ave and Howard 
233-2342 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH USI 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 
277-6245 

\ LOST/FOUND ) 
FOUND: Blue wrist keychain­O'Sullivan?-with 2 car keys-Found Sat. at 5 PM at Bookstore Semis­on grassy hill near Stepan. Tom­1887 
HELPIIIIIost a gold ring in the 
mudpits Saturday. Reward to the 
person who finds it. Call Paula at 
283-4081. 
LOST: 
Lens cap for camera. 
CANON 
Yeah, I know it doesn't seem 
like much but I'm broke. 
If found call 283-1836. 
THANX 
LOST · set of KEYS on Sat. April 29th with "Shane" printed on the key ring. If found please call #1195 and ask for Shane. 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko 
dress watch on the second 
floor of the library. Please 
call Pat x2479 or give to 
library security at the front 
desk. 
LOST: Women's high school class ring ...gold ring, dark blue stone with gold crest on top...class of 1986...initials LAG on the inside... PLEASE CALL #2533 
LOST: A Canon Sprint camera at Senior Formal. Please call Kay at 277-8813. Thanks! 
PLEASEII I LOST MY 
COMPUTER 
DISKS -YES WITH ALL MY 
PAPERS -IN LAFORTUNE LAB 
OR SOMEWHERE IN THE 
HUDDLE. 
THEY WERE IN A RED CASE 
HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH 
THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY 
REALLY NEED THESE Ill IF 
YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG 
CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE 
CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 
OR LEAVE IT AT THE 
LAFORTUNELAB. THANK 
YOU!!!! 
I lost my SEIKO wristwatch 
with black wristband. Maybe 
on North Quad. If found 
please call Diana x4003 
LOST: dropped a single key (429)somewhere near St. Mary's Lake or Holy Cross last week. PLEASE call x4897 if you picked it up. 
LOST: Gold watch. Lost on Monday , April 30th. Has much sentimental value. Reward if found. Call Usa at x4838. 
LOST: Gold Chain Sat. between 
the An Tostaf picnic and the Blue 
and Gold Game. Extreme 
Sentimental Value 
REWARD!! call Kelly 284-5464 

WANTED 
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE 
any weekend-ext 1938 
BOXES TO SHIP HOME FOR 
YOU. 

UPS ON CAMPUS DAILY 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
239-6714 

WE TAPEI WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
Discounts available 
10 Speed bike.272-6306 
STU REPORTER WANTED NEXT FALL Need knowledgable ND fan to file daily sports update-$$. Journalism exp a plus. 312-248­5148 
Looking for a triple loft, 'U' shaped, to fit a room of a two-room triple. Call X4067 or X4081 
ARE YOU GOING TO AMERICAN UNIV. OR JUST MOVING TO D.C. IN AUGUST? LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE? ME TOOl CALL 271-9858 
Share driving ONLY to Bedford, 
VA, or en route 5/10 or 11call 
Patty, 1675. 

Roommate Wanted 
Houston/NASA. Share 2 bdrm? Call Wi11283-1474. 
Patties is now hiring for the summer. Flexible Hours 
Day and Night. Our work schedule is perfect for students. Apply in person. 
3602 Grape Rd. 
Outpost Center 
Are you going to IU-Biooming­ton for grad school? I need a female roommate! Please call me! Ask for Denise. x2156. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! 
Government jobs -your area. 
$17,840-$69,485. Call1-602­
838-8885. EXT R-6262. 
ATTENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262. 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY 
WATCHING TVI $32,000/year 
income potential. Details. (1) 602­
838-8885. Ext. TV-6262. 
ROOMATE NEEDED SUMMER ONLY OAK HILL CONDOS FEMALE ONLY PHONE AND LEAVE A MESSAGE 272-1259 

FOR RENT~ 
FOR RENT 
3,4 AND 5 B~DROOM 
APTS. AVALIABLE 
LESS THAN 1 MILE 
FROM NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: 
Security systems, 
basements, rear yards, 
washer & dryer, new 
construction, good 
1eigbborhood ,dishwasher 
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 
616-483-9572. 

3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. 
Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549 
2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272­6306 
SUMMER RENTAL. House or Rooms. Near campus.272-6306 
NEAR NO: Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave"efficiency-$225;"1 bdrm-$265 dep.,references 616-483-9572 
Party Off Campus Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand V-ball court, washer/ dryer, safe. Bruce : 234-3831 or 288-5653 
Two Bedr Condo 2Baths, Lg 
rooms,pool,greal for Grads 
232-3972. 

LARGE 5 BR HOUSE 2 BATHS 
11/2 KITCHENS WET BAR IN 
BASEMENT. NEAR ST. JOE 

HOSP. $480 MO. 9M LEASE 271­
0373 

SUMMER RENTER NEEDED Luxurious Indian Springs Apts 3-bdrm townhouse, wshr/dryr in aptml, dshwshr, central AC, $165/mo. 232-5571. 
Turtlecreek 2 Bd Apt. 
Sublease starts 6/1/90 
Call Now x2265 or x1469 

AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­9364. 
SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK 
TOWNHOUSE/FULLY 
FURNISHED 
CALL KEVIN x1636 

SUBLETTING TURTLE CREEK 
TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, 
CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or 
SARAH AT x4068. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished apt-like rooms, air, 
kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus 
272-0615 

FREE, almost! Furnished houses 
(2) on N.D. Ave., $115 mo. per person for entire summer, OR flat $190 pp for summer session; plus electric. DEPOSIT. REFERENCES 259-7801 days, 255-5852 evenings. 
SUBLET FOR SUMMER 
2-bdr apt. partially furnished 
Turtle Creek-price negotiable 
call Anne x4267. 
4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 

AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL 
YEAR. FURNISHED, WiD. CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE 
RENT. 277-0959. 
FOR RENT 

TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
PRICE NEGOTIABLE 
PLEASE CALL EITHER: 
TRACIE X4026 OR 
LAUREN X4035 

GOING TO NORTHWESTERN FOR SUMMER SCHOOL? JOB IN EVANSTON/CHICAGO? 1/2 2BDR APT TO SUBLET, 3 BLKS TO NU, 1 TO EL. SARA 1674. 
Female wanted to share a recently redecorated 2 bdrm house for the summer. $200 mo. Call Now: 232-7970 
SUMMER SUBLET 1 Bedroom, Fully Furnished Turtle Creek Apartment Price-Negotiable Call Jeff @277-3998 

MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call ou1 
N.D. alumnae family for the most attractive, well-maintained apartments on Chicago's North side! Hardwd floors, great closet space, lndry facils., conveniently located to public transp and shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. We'd love to help you outI 
FOR SALE 
For sale-Macintosh 128k Complete package: printer, second disk drive, mouse, keyboard, software, only $785. 233-9428, after 6 p.m. 

DINING ROOM SET; EXCELLENT COND. $45 : SMALL DESK $20 OR BEST OFFER. KEVIN 256-2927 
FURNISHINGS FOR THE STYLISH STUDENT: Red shag carpet (approx. 9x12) and a wood 
bookcase (3 shelves). Best Offer. 
Call Rich at 4601. 

GOING TO PHOENIX? 
One-way flight for sale. 
O'Hare -Phx., Mon. 5/21, $80 
(what a steal!) 

Call Will x2013 or leave message 
and its yours. 

MacPius BOOK cmptr and lmagewrtr II printer for sale. lnclds software. 2 yrs old. Like new. $1000. 255-1970 
QUALITY PING PONG TABLE 
CALL 233-1320 

For sale: large bar and refrigerator (which fits into bar) Can buy together or separately. Excellent condition. If interested call 271­0032. 
Moving Off Campus? 
We Have Furniture. 
Call 277-6611 

1985 OLDS FIRENZA $2300 
OBO. AM/FM CASETTE 35 MPG 
CALL 256-5060 OR 259-0335 
Furniture: A whole apartment 
full of CHEAP goods. Must go 
this week. Call Tom anytime 
234-7083 

LOVELY HOME -Near NO , 3+br, 
$69,900,287 9341/239 5080 
1978 vw 

EXCELLENT CONDITION 
61,000 MILES, AJC 
272-1134. 

For Sale: 2 Lofts $35 ea. 2 sm. couches $20 & $30. Table & lamp $5 ea., Pale Green Rug fits double or quad. Call 3442. Remember Furniture is hard to find in the fall. 
Tan carpet for sale. Call x2156. 
Must sell! 

LEAVE USA, MUST SELL 1986 VW GOLF. 55,000 Ml, $4000.239­7385 OR 272-6968. 
PIONEER VSX3300 rec. $260 & 
BARekfast set $50 Sean 2011 
COMPUTER FOR SALE 

AMSTRAD (IBM compatible) 
lncludes:Color monitor,modem 
and EPSON printer; 

ALL FOR $485. Call Panos at 
237-0027 

For Sale: Apple fie, monitor, dbl. 
disk, wp programs and manuals, 
hundreds o' games, $500. Greg 
x1462 

-NICE-FURNITURE FOR SALE An entire apartment! Must sell this week. Best offer or only offer! Call 272-6117 
MOVING? Don't rent-BUYI $5000(0BO) buys Ford C700 2 1/2T moving truck w/hydraulic lift, 500 mi on rebuilt eng. Huge cargo box. Extra tires. BUY-LOAD­MOVE-SELL cheaper than renting! Call288-4183. 
Notre Dame Men's Volleyball Team is selling ND volleyball T -shirts. Three styles to choose from. Prices $10 & $11. 
For info call Tom x2333 

VOLVO-1978 4-dr. sedan. Auto. trans. New: tires, battery, tune-up, exhaust sys., $1800 obo. Dave 258-1165. 
SPEAKERS -Project One, 3-way spkrs. $50 obo. Call Dave: 258­1165. 
Selling 1 double loft-$70, and 1 single loft-$30, X4907. 
-M··--------------------------------­
TICKETS 

I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! please call Kathy at 277-8813 
........................ 

Grad Tix = Big $$ Call Steve@ 287-2105 
Yipes! My ultra-rich grandma needs a ticket for graduation or she'll beat me into submission with her cane. I will give you CASH today for your ticket. CALL X4238 and name your price. 
PLEASE CALL CRISTINA IF YOU 
ARE SELLING GRADUATION 
TICKETS 283-2986. 
NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ 
CALL #2059-JOHN 
WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 
$$$ I NEED GRAD TIX $$$ 
Call BRAD@ 271-0758 
GRADUATION TIXS, I NEED 
THEM! BIG BUCKS! CALL 
MELEAH AT X4229 
CASH FOR GRADUATION 
TICKETS II Call Chris@ 4328. 


PERSONALS 
START YOUR NEW CAREER 
WITH A NEW CAR! 
We have special financing for 
employed graduates. 
Call: Gary Erb 
At: Gates Toyota 
237-4999 
LET US HELP YOU! 
SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY 
$100 FREE INSURANCE 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
Discounts available 
Louii-
Give the frog back 
••••••••FOR SALE••••••••• 
Couch with a pull out BED 
Best Offer takes it! fill 
Call Beth Natasha or Sara atX2722 
Wishing You Were Somehow Here Again, knowing we must say good­bye. 
NEW JERSEY CLUB TRUCK 
LOADING TIMES 
5/10/90:6:00-7:00 PM 
STEPAN COURTS 
5/11/90:4:15-7:00 PM 
STEPAN COURTS 
ANY PROBLEMS, CALL LEE OR 
DAVE (3883,4235) 
ASK ME IF I AM A CAR. 
ARE YOU A CAR? 
NO! 
ARE YOU A CAR? 
UH, UH,NO! 
HAHAHA!!!I! 
SENIORS: STOP IN AT CAREER 
AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK 
OUR HOUSING I ROOMMATE 
INFORMATION EXCHANGE. 
For Sale: Flight from Chicago to 
Denver, May 20. Call x1844 
Going to D.C. for the summer 
or moving there permanently? 
D.C. Alumni Club can help you find housing. Call Mike Jones at (202) 546-7582 (evenings) 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN TWO RESUMES TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN 
TWO RESUMES TO CAREER 
AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING 
CAMPUS THIS SPRING. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN 
TWO RESUMES TO CAREER 
AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING 
CAMPUS THIS SPRING. 
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS THIS FRIDAY, MAY 4. THE DEADLINE FOR GETTING CLASSIFIEDS IN FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, MAY3. 

SENIORS, DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST MINUTE TO PLACE YOUR "GOODBYE" CLASSIFIEDS IN THE OBSERVER FOR THE MAY 1BISSUE. COME IN THIS WEEK AND AVOID THE RUSH. 
P.S. IF YOU DON'T COME IN THIS WEEK, THE DEADLINE FOR THE LAST ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, MAY17. 
DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO SAY A SPECIAL GOODBYE TO YOUR SPECIAL FRIENDS. 
applehead: watch out for those 
study breaks 
j--hope your lesson plans are done for the summer session of the "sleazy school..." 
LIZ C 
Can't wait for the CPA to be over 

so we can concentrate on 
eachother. You've been so 
incredibly supportive and I love 
you for ill Love, Jim 
Doesn't the "googfiness" of that 
couple make you want to puke, 
wretch, gag and die? 
Buffalo Baggage Truck loads 
Fri. 5/11 2-5pm Stepan and 
unloads Sat. 5/12 6-9pm. For info 
calf Tom x3368 or Matt x3681. 
TB-Name that tune, Part II: 
"My life has been such a whirlwind 
si nee I saw you, 
I've been running round in circles 
in my mind 
And it always seems that I'm 
following you giri­
'Cause you take me to the places 
that alone I'd never find..." 
R. 

Thank You St. Jude 
Dear BM: Miss you much. Please 
come up and visit me. 
--Your second floor Hesburgh 
admirer. 
•• PETE RAUSH FOR D.M.O.C. •• DUMMEST MAN ON CAMPUS Ill 
CONGRATULATIONS 
Bill & Lynn 

COUPLE OF THE YEAR awarded by An'Tostal committee 
Happy B-day Caryn Kikta I 
Love, the dirtbags. 
Going to IU-Bioomington grad 
school? I need a female 
roommate Call Denise x2156 
LOST:Biue NO Men's V-Ball Sweat-Jacket(#9 on front) If seen or found pl. call Dan at X 1232 
FOODSHARE VOLUNTEERS 
NEEDED! If you will be here this 
summer and want to help, calf 
Kathy O'Dwyer at 4432 
PATPATPATPATPATPATPATPAT 
PATPATPATPATPATPATPATPAT 
PATPATPATPATPATPATPATPAT 
PATPATPATPATPATPATPATPAT 
PATPATPATPATPATPATPATPAT 
PATPATPATPAT 
SMILE!!! GRIN AND BEAR IT. 

LOVE, 
THE CAR 
ATTN: FOOTBALL PLAYERS 
Did you ever wonder WHO it is 
that stuffs the pads into your 
pants??? 
DON-
Thanks for saturday night 
and all the little things you 
do. I'm glad you'll be in Cal. 
this summer. 
AP 

...................... 
ART BUST AMANTE 
"Bust-a-move" 
I want to have your baby­
HAHAHA 
This one's for you 

Good Luck on finals II 
Luv 
Your favorite hairdresser 
Ps. How many more states do you havL :ett? 
111111111111*************••• 
see CLASS I page 18 

page 16 Scoreboard Thursday, May 3, 1990 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
East  Division  w  L  
Milwaukee  13  6  
Boston  12  9  
Toronto  t3  10  
Cleveland  10  tO  
Baltimore  9  13  
New York  7  12  
Detroit  8  14  
West  Division  w  L  
Oakland  t6  5  
Chicago  11  7  
Texas  t2  10  
Calilornia  10  tt  
Minnesota  9  12  
Seattle  9  13  
Kansas City  6  13  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Tuesday's  Games  

Oakland 4, New York 2 California 7, Baltimore 1 Boston 8, Seattle 2 Toronto 4, Cleveland 3 Minnesota 9, Detroit 5 Chicago 5, Texas t Milwaukee 6, Kansas City 4 
Wednesday's Games Seattle 9, Boston 2 Oakland 2, New York 0 California 3, Baltimore 0 Cleveland 3, Toronto 0 Minnesota 8, Detroit 2 

Pet  GB  
.684  
.57t  2  
.565  2  
.500  31/2  
.409  51/2  
.368  6  
.364  6t/2  
Pet  GB  
.762  
.611  3t/2  
.545  41/2  
.476  6  
.429  7  
.409  7t/2  
.316  9  

Milwaukee at Kansas City, ppd., rain 
Texas 6, Chicago 3 

Thursday's Games Cleveland (Farrell 2-1) at New York (Cadaret t-t), 1 p.m. Minnesota (A.Anderson t-3) at Detroit (Tanana2-1), 1:35p.m. Texas (K.Brown 4-0) at Chicago (Kutzler 1· 0), 8:05 p.m. Milwaukee (Navarro 0-0) at Kansas City (Gubicza 1·3), 8:35p.m. California (C.Finley 3-t) at Seattle (Young 0-3), 10:05 p.m. Only games scheduled 
Friday's Games Texas at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. Detroit at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Kansas City, 8:35p.m. Minnesota at Milwaukee, 8:35 p.m. Boston at Oakland, t 0:35p.m. New York at California, 10:35 p.m. Baltimore at Seattle, 10:35 p.m. 
TODAY'S MAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

BATTING (47 at bats)-Griffey, Seattle, .386; Stillwell. Kansas City, .383; Pena, Boston, .367; Webster, Cleveland, .352: Larkin, Minnesota, .347. 
RUNS-RHenderson, Oakland, t7; Reynolds, Seattle, 16; Canseco, Oakland, t5; Franco, Texas, 15; Puckett, Minnesota, 15. 
RBI-Gruber, Toronto, 20; Fielder, Detroit, t9; Felix, Toronto, 18; Griffey, Seattle, 18; McGwire, Oakland, 18. 
HITS-Griffey, Seattle, 34; Gruber, Toronto, 30; Fernandez, Toronto, 29; Pena, Boston, 29; Lansford, Oakland, 27; Sierra, Texas, 27; Trammell, Detroit, 27. 
DOUBLE&-Boggs, Baston, 8; Felix, Toronto, 8; Larkin, Minnesota, 8; RHenderson, Oakland, 8; 8 are tied with 7. 
TRIPLE&--1 0 are tied with 2. 
THIS DATE IN BASEBALL Montreal2, Houston 1, 13 innings 
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
East Division Pittsburgh Philadelphia Montreal Chicago New York St. Louis  w t4 12 tt 10 10 tO  L 7 9 10 11 t1 t2  Pet .667 .571 .524 .476 .476 .455  GB 2 3 4 4 41/2  
West Division w Cincinnati t3 Los Angeles t2 San Diego tO Houston 9 San Francisco 8 Atlanta 6 z~denotes first game was a  L 5 10 11 12 14 13 win  Pet .722 .545 .476 .429 .364 .316  GB 3 4 112 5 t/2 7 7t/2  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Tuesday's Games Philadelphia 4, CincinAtlanta 5, New York 2  nati 2  

St. Louis 2, San Diego 1 
Los Angeles 4, Pittsburgh 1 
Chicago 7, San Francisco 4 Wednesday's Games Late Game Not Included 
Chicago 9, San Francisco 6 
San Diego 4, St. Louis 3 
Atlanta 8, Montreal 1 
New York 5, Cincinnati 0 
Philadelphia 14, Houston 4 
Pittsburgh at Los Angeles, (n) 
Thursday's Games Atlanta (Giavine 1-2) at Montreal (Boyd 1-2), 7:35p.m. Cincinnati (Armstrong 4-0) at New York (Fernandez 1·2), 7:35p.m. Houston (Gullickson 1·1) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 1·0), 7:35 p.m. Only games scheduled 
Friday's Games San Diego at Chicago, 3:20p.m. San Francisco at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Houston at New York, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. Atlanta at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Cincinnati at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroit, 7; Gruber, Toronto, 7; McGwire, Oakland, 7; Bell, Toronto, 6; Canseca, Oakland, 5: Griffey, Seattle, 5; Maldonado, Cleveland, 5. 
STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 12; Canseco, Oakland, 7; Pettis, Texas, 7; WWilson, Kansas City, 7; Calderon, Chicago, 6. 
PITCHING (3 decisians)-Stewart, Oakland, 5-0. 1.000, 1.32; KBrawn, Texas, 4·0, 1.000, 3.58; Black, Cleveland, 3-0, 1.000, 2.08: Bosio, Milwaukee, 3-0, 1.000, 1.39; Hanson, Seattle, 3·0, 1.000, 2.40; Higuera, Milwaukee, 3·0, 1.000, 0.99. 
STRIKEOUTS-Ryan, Texas, 41; Clemens, Boston, 34; MPerez, Chicago, 30; Hanson, Seattle, 29; Morris, Detroit. 26. 
SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 8 DJones, Cleveland, 7; Eichhorn, California, 5 Henneman, Detroit, 5; Righetti, New York, 5 Schooler, Seattle, 5; Thigpen, Chicago, 5. 

1936-In his major-league debut for the New York Yankees, Joe DiMaggio had three hits in a 14·5 rout of the St. Louis Browns. 
1951 -Rookie Gil McDougald of New York drove in six runs in one inning to tie a major league record as the Yankees beat the St. Louis Browns 17·3 at Sportsman's Park. McDougald had a two-run triple and a grand slam in an 11-run ninth inning. 
1 959 -Detroit's Charlie Maxwell hit four consecutive homers in a doubleheader sweep of the New York Yankees, 4-2 and 8·2, at Briggs Stadium. 
1980 -Ferguson Jenkins of the Texas Rangers became the fourth pitcher in major league history to win 100 or more games in both leagues. Jenkins beat the Baltimore Orioles 3·2 at Arlington Stadium. Cy Young, Jim Bunning and Gaylord Perry are the other p1tchers to reach the milestone. 
1984 -Darryl Motley and Pat Sheridan of Kansas City hit consecutive home runs to start the game, but the Milwaukee Brewers edged the Royals 6-5 in 10 innings. . . . 1986-Don Mattingly of New York became the sixth player in maJor league history to hit three sacrifice flys in a game as the Yankees beat the Texas Rangers 9·4. . . 1987-Eric Davis hit three home runs, including a grand slam, and drove 1n SIX runs to power the Cincinnati Reds over the Philadelphia Phillies 9-6. 
London  $245  Madrid  $259  
Paris  249  Rome  285  
Frankfurt 249  

Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Fares 1/2 RT from Chicago. Some re· strictions apply. On-the-spot rail· passes. lnt'l. Student 1.0. cards. youth hostel passes, work and study pro­grams. Call for FREE Travel Catalog. 
'~""'"""" StChicago, IL 60610 312-951-0585 ____. 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Thursday, May 3 Softball vs. VALPARAISO (2) 4 p.m. 
Friday, May 4 Softball vs. I ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 4 p.m. 
Saturday, May 5 Baseball vs. XAVIER (2), Jake Kline Field, 12 p.m. Men's track hosts Central Collegiates Conference Championships 
Sunday, May 6 Baseball vs. XAVIER (2), Jake Kline Field, t2 p.m. 
RESULTS 
Lacrosse Notre Dame 12, Michigan State 6 
Baseball Notre Dame 6, Valparaiso 4 Notre Dame t1, Valparaiso 1 
Men's Tennis Tuesday Notre Dame 9, Kalamazoo 0 
NBA PLAYOFFS 


BOSTON (99) TRANSACTIONS 
Bird t2-25 6-7 3t, McHale 6·t3 5·6 t7, Parish 4­7 3-4 tt, Johnson 8-t4 2-2 t8, Lewis 5-1t 6-7 t6, 
BASEBALL Kleine 2-2 0-0 4, Bagley 0-t 0·0 0, Paxson t-1 0-t 2. Totals 38-74 22-27 99. American League NEW YORK (102) DETROIT TIGERS-Returned Johnny Paredes, Oakley 5·9 4-7 t4, Vandeweghe 2·6 0·0 4, Ewing infielder, to the Montreal Expos and Steve 
t4-34 5-10 33, Cheeks 5-t2 2-2 t2, G.Wilkins 6·t9 Wapnick, pitcher, to the Toronto Blue Jays. 3-6 t5, Newman 3-t2 5-5 tt, Tucker t-3 0·0 2, Recalled Brian DuBois, pitcher, from Toledo of the Walker 4-5 t-2 9, Jackson 0-1 0-0 0, E. Wilkins 0-0 
International League. 2-2 2.Totals 40-tOt 22-34 t02. KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Optioned Bill Pecota, 
3-Point goals-Boston t-7 (Bird t-4, Bagley 0-t, infielder, and Gary Thurman, outfielder, to Omaha Johnson 0·2), New York 0-3 (Cheeks 0-t, Newman of the American Association. 0-1, Tucker 0-t). Fouled out-Oakley. Rebounds­OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms with 
Boston 52 (Parish tO), New York 62 (Ewing t9). Dennis Eckersley, pitcher, on a two-year contract Assists-Boston 20 (Bird 8), New York 24 (Cheeks extension. tt ). Total fouls-Boston 23, New York 22. SEATTLE MARINER&-Piaced Scott Bankhead, 
Technicai-Kieine. A-18,2t2. pitcher, on 20-day injury rehabilitation assignment 
BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Chicago 004 302 000-9 t6 o San Francisco 010 003 002-6 9 t 
Harkey, Assenmacher (6) and Girardi; Garrelts, O'Neal (4), Knepper (6), Camacho (7), Bedrosian (9) and Kennedy. W-Harkey, 3-1. L-Garrelts, 0-3. Assenmacher (1). HAs-San Francisco, MaWilliams 2 (4), Mitchell (5), GCarter (t). 
Stlouis OOt tOO 001-3 0 San Diego 000 003 01 x-4 9 2 Deleon, DiPino (7), Niedenfuer (7), Horton (8) and Zelle; Hurst, Lefferts (8) and Santiago. W-Hurst, t-3. L-Deleon, 2-t. Sv-Lefferts (3). HAs-St. Louis, Hudler (t ). San Diego, Ja.Ciark (5), Roberts (3). 
Cincinnati 000 000 000-0 6 New York 011 ttO Otx-5 t 0 2 Browning, Gross (7) and Oliver; Viola and Lyons. W-Viola, 5-0. L-Browning, 2-2. HAs-New York, Marshall (3), Johnson (6). 
Atlanta 005 000 t 02-8 tt 0 Montreal 000 t 00 000-t 5 2 Clary, Castillo (8) and Olson; Smith, Schmidt (7) Frey (9) and Santavenia, Fitzgerald (7). W-Ciary, 1-1. L-Smith, 2·2. HR-Atlanta, Thomas (1). 
Houston 004 000 00~ 4 8 1 Philadelphia 003 128 00x-t4 20 0 Clancy, Hernandez (5), Darwin (6), Agosto (7), Schatzeder (8) and Biggio, Trevino (7); Cook, Akerfelds (8). McElroy (9) and Daulton, Lake (8). W-Cook, 4-0. L-Ciancy, 1-1. HR-Hauston, Davis (7). 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Seattle 020 304 000-9 t6 Boston 000 000 02~2 9 0 
Hanson, Swift (8), Schooler (9) and Valle; Harris, Lamp (4), Gardner (5), Kiecker (6) and Pena. W­Hanson, 3-0. L-Harris, 2-t. HAs-Seattle, O'Brien (2), Martinez (3). 
Toronto 000 000 000-0 7 t Cleveland 000 000 t2x-3 4 0 Cerutti, Wells (8) and Borders; Black, Jones (9) and Skinner, Alomar (9). W-Black, 3-0. L-Cerutti, t-4. Sv--Jones (7). HR-Cieveland, Maldonado (5). 
California 000 OOt 020-3 9 0 Baltimore 000 000 000-0 7 2 Blyleven, Witt (7), Eichhorn (8) and Parrish; Ballard, Williamson (8) and Tettleton. W-Biyleven, t-2. L­Ballard, 0-4. Sv-Eichhom (5). HR-California, White (2). 
Minnesota 000 303 10t-8 9 0 Detroit 100 010 000-2 3 0 West and Harper; Morris, Nunez (8) and Heath. W-West, 2·3. L-Morris, 2-3. HAs-Minnesota, Gaetli 2 (3). Detroit, Jones (1 ), Harper (2). 
Oakland 000 OtO Ot0-2 8 0 New York 000 000 00~0 5 0 Sanderson, Burns (8), Honeycutt (9) and Steinbach; Leafy and Geren. W-Sanderson, 3-t. L-Leary, 1· 
2. Sv-Honeycutt (2). HR--Oakland, D.Henderson (4). 
Texas 000 2t3 000-6 9 0 Chicago 300 000 000-3 10 t with Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. Purchased the contract of Bryan Clark, pitcher, from Calgary. Sent Dennis Powell, pitcher, and Matt Sinatra, catcher, outright to Calgary. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Assigned Steve Wapnick, pitcher, to Syracuse of the International League. 
National League ATLANTA BRAVES-Placed Nick Esasky, first baseman. on the t5-day disabled list, retroactive to April 22. Called up Mike Bell, first baseman, from Greenville of the Southern League. Sent Rusty Richards, pitcher, to Richmond of the International League. CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Jeff Pica, pitcher, to Iowa of the American Association. HOUSTON ASTROS-Traded Mark Thurmond, pitcher, to the San Francisco Giants for a player to be named later. MONTREAL EXPOS-Assigned Johnny Paredes, infielder, to Indianapolis of the American 
Association. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Sent Eulogio Perez, 
shortstop, from Spartanburg of the South Atlantic 
League to their extended spring training program. 
Assigned Corey Thomas, infielder, to Spartanburg. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Acquired Mark 
Thurmond, pitcher, from the Houston Astros for a 
player to be named later. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League CHICAGO BEARS-Signed Steve Elmlinger, Quintin Smith and Cedric Tillman. wide receivers; 
James Lott and James Moses, defensive backs: Alex Armentos, safety: Bruce Brineman, guard; Red Hennings, defensive tackle; Sloan Hood, fullback; Tim Marconi, tackle: Keith Pontiflet, cornerback; and David Westbrooks, defensive end. CLEVELAND BROWNS-Waived Darryl Sims, defensive lineman; K.D. Dunn, tight end; and Bob Sims, offensive lineman. Signed George Hawthorne, offensive tackle; Pete Scott. offensive guard; Tom Bolyard, punter; Kevin Sprinkles, tight end; and Jerry Kauric, placekicker. 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Signed Doug Lowery, Gary Baldinger and Sean McNanie, defensive ends: Dwayne O'Connor and Eugene Riley, tight ends; Ron Varga, center; and Jessie Hester, wide 
receiver. KANSAS CITY CHIEF&-Signed Sidney Johnson, cornerback: Bryan Barker, punter; Lee Johnson, nose tackle; Sherrod Rainge, defensive back; Lonnie Marts and Eric Thomas, linebackers; Mike Kiselak, guard; and Bren Lowery, running back. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Morgan Gregory, wide receiver, and Tim Hauck, free safety. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Granted Earl Ferrell, 
running back, free-agency status. 
TENNIS USTA-Named Marshall Happer U.S. Open tournament director and Michael J. Burns U.S. Claycourt tournament director. 
COLLEGE METRO ATLANTIC CONFERENCE-Named Rev. Aloysius P. Kelley, president; Brother Thomas J. Scanlan, chairman of the Policy Committee; and Dr. Daniel P. Starr, chairman of the Committee on Athletic Administration. ALLEGHENY-Named Joe Philbin offensive coordinator and offensive line coach. CHAPMAN COLLEGE-Named Dave Currey athletic director, effective July t. 

ATTENTION: 
We'll PackageAnything 
Grad Students 
(YOU'VE GOT ON CAMPUS OR OFF)
Professors Employees 
andShipit ~ 
•furnished and unfurnished suites "'flexible leases 
Anywhere! .~ 
•washer & dryer each apt. 
You're smart enouah to know a good•locked intercom entrances deal when you see one. Let us pack•spacious floor plans w/country kitchens your belonglnp and get them home 


(or elsewhere). Bring them to us, or call for plck up. 
• 
Ship via UPS, Federal Expre•s, truck, air, or U.S. Postal Service. 

• 
Protective packaging, including exclusive Foam Safe. 

• 
Large items, fragile items, anything 

• 
CASH, CREDIT CARD, LOCAL CHECK or COD 

• 
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 


914 Erskine Plaza 
lQ(]f) Su!"'' ~ Non 

Sourh fk'n(i lnth"''"' Aaol26 South Bend 
291-2000

219 • 277 • 3 7 3 • 
PACXAm>OAND~Jt.g:~ 

-~----~-~~-~--------~-­
Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 17 

Tennis team awaits NCAAs 
Irish dismantle Division Ill number one Kalamazoo 9-0 
By BOB MITCHELL Coach Bob Bayliss. "They make most prestigious college tennis 
Sports Writer you work for 1wnry point. It's event. 
n~ally a big match at The Irish havn equally strong 
With llw thoughts of an Kalamazoo." daims to a regional or an inde­NC/\1\ Tnam Championship bid Said Dave DiLucia of the pendnnt bid. Notre Dame's re­on tlw minds of the Notrn match. "It was really important gion;tl rncord has only one llanw men's tnnnis team. tlw that we established ourselves blemish while indepnndently the Irish daslwd up to Kalamazoo early in the contest. 1\lso, it was Irish have beaten five Top 25 Coi!Pgl' to try to widdln away critical that we finish llw sea­tnams. llw anxious momnnts. Not only son strong." "We deserve to be there," did tlwy dash to Kalamazoo, With llw Kalamazoo match says number one Dave DiLucia. hut thny sprintnd through the coneludnd. all Irish nars are "Its a little shaky because of match. waiting for a a call from the the rngional bids, but we should 
Tlw Irish racnd to a 9-0 win NC/\1\ selection committne for be there. If Northwnstern loses ovnr tlw No. I Division III tnn­an invite to thn 1990 NC/\1\ this weekend in the Big 10 nis tP<un. Thn Irish capturnd Tmun Championships in Indian Championships, I think we have thrPP of 1111' four singlns Wnlls, C!\. Tlw Irish arn cur­a 50/50 shot at a regional bid. matdws in straight snts. It may rently ranked number 16 in the If Northwestern wins, we have sound likP tlw Irish srlwdulnd latest Volvo Collegiatn Tnnnis a 50/50 chance to receive an at­tlwmsnlves a lightwnight. but l'oii.This bodns well for Notre large bid." two years ago Kalamazoo Damn considering that the Pdged NotrP llanw 5-4. From NC/\1\ Team Championships in­"I really believe that we dn­tlw convincing knockout, any elude llw Top 20 collegiate servn to go, says senior captain tPnnis afficionado can snnse the teams. llowever, the fact that Walter Dolhare."/\nd I think 
Derby ready
drasti<-improvnnwnt in tlw tlw Irish are definitldy mw of that once we're there we will do AP Photo Irish tPnnis program. the 20 best collngiat1~ tennis well. The selnction process is Thirty Six Red relaxes in a whirlpool and munches breakfast in "Kalamazoo is a scrappy, tmuns in the nation dons not weird. There is so much specu­preparation for the 116th running of the Kentucky Derby this Saturday 
wldl-coadwd tnam." said linad guarantee them a place in the lation." at Churchill Downs. 

Summer Squall recovers from injury to lead Derby 
I.OUISVII.LI\,  Ky.  (/\I'J  - paign  as  2-y1mr-old, Summer  Veterinarians gave the OK for  "l had a little tight campaign,  $786,000, with $611 :ooo to the  
First  lw  was  called  Thunder  Squall bled during  a  workout  Summer Squall to start in the  but I had  to  grab  what  was  winner.  
Bolt.  tlwn  Stormy  Weatlwr.  Feb. 15 at Gulfstream Park.  seven-furlong Swale March 17  available,"  Howard  said  of  "If we don't have bad luck. I  
tlwn  Storm  Cloud.  Finally,  it  "It  wasn't  a  trickle,"  Cot  at Gulfstream and the colt fin­ Summer Squall's three races in  have great confidence he'll run  
was Sumnwr Squall.  Campbnll.  president  of  ished second,  a  length behind  six weeks.  well," Campbell said after the  
By  any  name,  the colt is  a  Dogwood Stable,  said  of the  top  sprinter  Housebuster.  Now  comes  the  1  1/4-mile  son of Storm Bird put in his fi­ 
leading  contnnder  for  blending.  "There  had  never  Campbell said it "might have  Derby, and Summer Squall fig­ nal Derby prnp Wednesday.  
Saturday's Kentucky Dnrby at  been any indication of bleeding  been his best race, given the  ures  to  be  no  worse  than the  The colt's  name  is based on  
Churchill Downs.  before. It was a fluky thing."  circumstances."  second  betting choice  to  un­ that of his sire. Thunder Bolt,  
For  a  tinw  in  February  it  Campbell  and  trairwr  Neil  Two  weeks  later,  Summer  beaten Mister Frisky. winner of  Stormy  Weather  and  Storm  
looked as if Sumnwr Squall was  Iloward  think  the  bleeding  Squall  won  the Jim  Beam  at  all  16 of his  starts.  His  four  Cloud  were  rejected  by  the  
going nowhern.  might have bmm the result of a  Turfway Park and  two  weeks  races  this  year  were  spread  Jockey Club because thny al­ 
llaving  recovered  from  a  fungus or bacteria.  after that won  the Blue Grass  over 13 weeks.  ready wen~ being used.  
hairline fracture of tlw  right­ "lie  was  one  of 35  horses  at Kneneland. Both races were  "Summer Squall is the horse  
front  cannon  horw that endml  who bled during a  10-day pe­ run  at 1 1/8 miles  on  muddy  to  beat," said  Ron  Mc/\nally,  Pat  Day.  who  will  ride  
his  fivP-racn  unb1~aten  cam­ riod in Florida, Campbell said.  tracks.  who  trains  /\rkansas  Derby  Summer Squall,  was  present  
winner Silver Ending.  but  exercise  rider  Hobert  
Seventeen 3-year-olds  were  Vickers  was  aboard  the  colt  
~AOETO THEFiNISH  expected to be entered Thursday, which would make the 116th Derby worth  when he worked five eighths in 1 :02 and galloped out three quarters in 1:16 3-5.  
WITH  ZENITH  DATA  SYSTEMS  

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field: 
Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. /\ny women interestl'd in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to attend a brief meeting on Wednesday. May 2 at 4:00 p.m. in tlw Loftus 1\uditorium. /\ny furtlwr questions. please eall thn Track Office at 239-6989. 
Enter Our Sweepstakes Today And Finish At The Most Exciting Race In Europe...The Tour De France! 
As you race to the finish of the school yeaJ;be sure to enter our "RACE TO THE FINISH" Sweepstakes, where you could win one of these great prizes: 
GRAND PRIZE-ONE WINNER 
An all-expense-paid trip for two to Paris for the 1990 Tour de France. 
FIRST PRIZE-50 WINNERS 

A Raleigh Assault• or Finesse• All-Terrain Bike. 
SECOND PRIZE-500 WINNERS 
Ago-anywhere Fanny Pack. 

THIRD PRIZE-1,000 WINNERS 
A sports water bottle. 

To enter; just race over to the campus contact listed at right and ask to take afree test drive on 
one of our featured desktqp PCs. It just might be the most rewarding test of your college career! 
ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS INNOVATES AGAIN* 
ZENITH 11""1!1 
data systems 1!:.=,1 
_... 

Form No. 1246 
Buy APC, Get A Bike FREE! 
Buy any ofour 
qualifYing

desktop systems* at 
agreat student price,
and_get aRaleigh
All-Terrain Bike 
ABSOLUTELY FREE! Now at 
HURRY! SWEEPS'D\KES ENDS JUNE 8, 1990! 
Graphics simulale MitrosoR• WindowJ, aproduct of Microsoft Corporation. 'Quahfyinasystemslnclude Z·286 LP Model20. Z-286 LP/12 Model20, Z-286 LP/12 Model~ when purchued with any anllh Data Systems VGA Monito' 
C> 1990. Zenith Data Systems 
~~~ ALUMNI """' 
SENIOR 
~CLUB 
iOINUGHl: CL[!JJ~ ClUJf fNUG[l-{Ji ~~~[!J)AV: OOM!ES1T11C ~UGm ~ll'll IFru<dl<a~y ror ~YII'll<eh, ll'liOOII'll·2rpm (~@~ Salt ror ~QII'li(Qiij~ IR.~I11l~: IFru<dl<a~y rnu~h~. MfJ!y 11. 
•

THE GAUCHOS FANS • 
You're the best siHth man on campus. Thanks for euergthing. 
-Hob, Tom, Daue, Mike, & ·Pete 
-

page 18 The Observer 
-
Dawson's 3 hits lead Cub win 
----~ 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­
Andre Dawson extended his hit­
ting streak to 11 games with 
three hits and three RBis, pow­
ering the Chicago Cubs to a 9-6 
victory Wednesday over the San 
Francisco Giants. 

The Cubs pounded out 16 hits for a two-game total of 31 against the Giants while earn­ing their first series sweep of the season. The Giants, swept only once while winning the National League pennant in 1989, sustained their fourth this season -all at home, where they are 2-11. 
Dawson has four homers and 14 RB!s during his streak. Ryne Sandberg and Dwight Smith also had three hits for the Cubs. Hookie Mike Harkey (3-1) pitched 5 1-3 innings, yielding four runs, all on homers. Paul Assenmacher got his first save since 1988. 
Matt Williams hit two homers for the Giants and Kevin Mitchell and pinch-hitter Gary Carter one each. The Cubs went ahead to stay with four runs in the third, rapping six consecu­tive two-out hits off Scott Garrelts (0-3). 
Padres 4, Cardinals 3 
SAN DIEGO -Jack Clark and 
Bip Hoberts homered in the 
sixth inning and Bruce Hurst 
earned his first victory as San 
Diego broke a five-game losing 
streak. 
Hurst (1-3) allowed seven hits in seven innings, struck out eight and walked one. The Cardinals took a 2-0 lead with two-out runs in the third and fourth innings as Jose DeLeon (2-1) held the Padres to just three singles over the first five. 
With the Cardinals leading 2­0, Clark hit his fifth homer. Hoberts added this third, a two-run shot that gave the Padres the lead for good. 
San Diego's Craig Lefferts earned his third save, working two innings and allowing two hits, including the third homer by Rex Hudler, who went 4-for­4. 

Angels 3, Orioles 0 
BALTIMOHE -Bert Blyleven moved to fourth on the all-time strikeout list and won for the first time this season as the California Angels beat the struggling Baltimore Orioles 3­0 Wednesday night. 
Blyleven struck out eight, in­cluding Mickey Tettleton in the fourth inning for the 3,575th of his career. That moved him past Don Sutton. Blyleven (1-2) finished with 3,578, trailing only Tom Seaver, Steve Carlton, and Nolan Hyan. 
Blyleven allowed live hits and one walk in six innings. Mark Eichhorn, the third California pitcher, earned his fifth save. 
Phillies 14, Astros 4 
PHILADELPHIA -Tom Herr had four of Philadelphia's sea­son-high 20 hits and matched his career high with five RBis as the Phillies had their biggest inning in four years in a 14-4 rout Wednesday night of the Houston Astros. 

D.C. Thank You for holding on. SENIORS: STOP IN AT CAREER JK, WHO WAS ALWAYS PLEASANT Though time and miles may keep TO MY ROOMMATES: KIM E.,
Class 

AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK You've made this year very TO BE AROUND, AND CHRIS B., us apart, you'll still be living in my OUR HOUSING I ROOMMATE special. I'm gonna miss you so heart. Dream of me. I'll miss you so
WHO DOES AN AWESOMEcontinued from page 15 INFORMATION EXCHANGE. much this summer. Looking much. Take Brand for a walk and 
LAMBADA IMITATION. THANKS forward to Fri. nile! Love, MS feed the ducks, and the fish, and
Y'ALL FOR A GREAT YEAR. LOVE, 
even the rabid squirrels. Always, ADOPTION. We are a childless, FRILLY RANK NICE TRY META MUCILS!!! Tan
YOUR ICE-MAKING ROOMMATE 
educated, secure, happily married, I look like taco, but I taste Congratulations Amy Bundens, white Christian couple. Give your like tuna!!!!!! Mary Beth Cook, Beth Morrison PHILADELPHIA CLUB 
Washington D.C. Club
baby a fantastic future. Let us and Laura Brown--We may not Baggage Truck
is running a baggage service 
adopt her/him. Call us collect 201-have won but at least we lived up Loading: Friday, May 11 974-8227. Stevey (Gargs), to our name last week! I know I feel ND lOam-2:30pm @Stepan 
Pickup: Thurs. May 10 from 3-6 
Good luck next year! You'd better about five pounds lighter! Courts 
p.m. Bookstore Courts Fri. May 11
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! come back next year and have SMC 3-4 @Lemans bus stop 
12·3 p.m. Stepan Courts and 3:30· 
Mail Boxes Etc. some massive tailgaters. Now you P.S. Remember when you're ?'s·Call Kevin (3341)
4:30 p.m. LeMans parking lot. 
We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, can graduate with peace knowing I sliding into first and you're feeling Mike (1803) In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! wrote you back. something burst.. .... 
Prices vary 
Have we got a deal for you! Call 283-1416 for questions UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. Love, --your pal Mol 
COUCH, our best, for just $25! 

277-6245 Jeanne 
P.S. I heard there's a lecture on THANKS TO Mary, Sunshine, Phil, 
BOSTON CLUB 
Not one, but two, PETE'S BREWING COMPANY the electroelasticity of the multi­KC/liz, Yentl, the fabulous babes 

MEMBERS 
brown CARPETS. 

nucleic cellular components of an of PE, the equally fabulous babes The truck will load behind the We're talking plush. 
LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED eyeball Mon. night.. .......... .. from Flanner Tower and Kelly B. 
bookstore on Friday, May 11, from $15 each. 
SPECIALTY BREWER NOW who fixed my broken paw--you 11 :OOam to 3:00pm.
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS Call Rich or Regis at1527 today! 
were swell Metamucil fans! FOR MIDWEST REGION MARIANNE RAVRY, 
For Sale: 
WEINDORK .. We LOVE the wayMANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. Good Luck living with your ATTENTION JOZEF HENRIQUEZ: 
Stereo Speakers 
BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. you slam!!! Let's do it again 
roomate next year! Ha! Ha! Ha! HERE'S YOUR VERY OWN Stereo Cabinet 
barefoot. Amp, Equalizer, Phone, TunerRESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST Have a great summer. Don't do PERSONAL. POR FIN!! THANKS --the dudes from the dunes SALES AND MARKETING anything I wouldn't do!!! FOR ALL THE LAMBADAS, 
Tape Deck. 
PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES That's not saying much. Ha! Ha! LAUGHS, AND LATE NIGHT Excellent Condition, Price BJ.
EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL See ya soon!!!!!! BREAKFASTS. IT'S BEEN ALOT 
Call271-5681 
A tradition continues. Be alert. 
MARK BOZZINI (415) 328·7383. love, OF FUN. I WISH YOU ONLY THE me BEST. ALWAYS, TO THE 5'11" BLOND, BLUE­Need guys to coach FARLEYPROFESSIONAL COUPLE 
THE DIMPLOMATIC GRINGA EYED DEMI-GOD OF 302 
football, hoops, and softball DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL CAMPUS VIEW-I'VE BEEN call Aimee x4222 
KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER OYE VACA (A.K.A. KASSIE) WATCHING YOU,TOO! IN CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU A Pro-Life Pregnancy Help Center: I WON'T BEGIN TO TELL YOU FACT,JUST THE THOUGHT OF To the Quint+ 1,DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL MOTHER'S DAY CARDS HOW MUCH I'LL MISS YOU. IT'S YOU DRIVES ME INTO A The time has come for us to say0-317-298-8548 OR ATTORNEY Available Wed. May 2-Fri. May 4 in AMAZING HOW FAST TWO FRENZY! CALL ME! 
goodbye. No one can believe that it 0·317·882·9799 Dining Halls at Dinner and in Law YEARS PASS. ·YOUR EXCITED P.E. ADMIRER has been another whole year.
(ref#89-129). School during lunch. Mass Card is CON CARINO, We've certainly have had ouroffered as way to honor Mother's SUSAN Admiral: share of laughs, and more thanANNA BUNGER and support work of Care Center. 
our share of drinks!!!! 


GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS Asking $2 donation. Stop being lovesick ..you're Ri Ruv Ru Roo!! 
Room 325, the quint+1, and ourLOVE making us sick. your lover motto will live on forever, carpeCLANCY diem!!!!
To our pals at Keenan, 
We're glad that we met all of you CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS this year. Our Sophomore year REGARDLESS OF CONDITION. wouldn't have been the same 277·9954. without all of you! You sure threw 
us for a few loops Looking forward 
NOW OPEN TO ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
MEMORY is seated to another two years(Possibly 3 
predominantly in the HEART. more at the rate we are going). IT is therefore rather DIM, Have a great summer, but before POETIC and NONREALISTIC. you take off, please come over and 
help us clean our room!!!! Cheers, The quint + 1 
>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
.....POTTERY SALE..... 

THE COUNTRY HARVESTER WILL BE OPEN THIS SUMMER! 
Riley Hall -outside on 

239-6714
the lawn May 2nd & 3rd 1 0-4pm 

GREAT GIFTS IN A NEAT SHOP .....POTTERY SALE..... 
FALL SEMESTER, 1990
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
FOR SALE: One way ticket South Bend to Boston departing May 21. Best Offer. Call Laura x3484 
1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE 
MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 
9:30, 11:00, 1:15 SECTIONS 
FOCUS: WRITING SKILLS 
SPEAKING SKILLS 
INTERPERSONAL SKILLS 
NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY FOR MORE INFORMATION AND/OR FOR REGISTRATION 



Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 19 
Women's softball faces Valparaiso 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The Notrn Dame softball tnarn has alrnady beaten Valparaiso thrne times this season, but the Irish will not takn the Crusaders lightly whnn they visit Alumni Field for a 4 p.m. doubleheader this aftnrnoon. 
AI though the Irish won nasily ovnr Valpo in the St. Francis Invitational April 8, thn Crusaders twice extnnded them into extra innings in a March 26 doublehnader at Valparaiso. Notre Dame escaped with 4­3, eight-inning victories in both of' those contests. 
Notre Dame had won 16 out of' 17 bdore Tuesday's doubleheader with De Paul in whieh the Irish lost the first game 5-1 and were forced to settle for a 0-0 tie aftm 11-innings when the game was called by darkness. Notre Dame's reeord now stands at 32-15­1. 
Pizza Hut·oelivers on CampusFast, Hot and Free! 
ll 
:t 

===~:t1~~~ 
ij 

©1990 P'IIIa Hut, bK. Limited Debvery Area
FAST FREE DELIVERY Call: 232-2499 

Large

Cheese Pizza $600 

Toppings Extra Avoiloble on Pon, Hood-Tossed Troditionol or Thin 'N Crispf Piuo VALID ON DELIVERY OR CARRYOUT Offer Expires May 30,1990 r~oo .. -~too.._...., ...... 11.. ...,..,. ,.ty,. ~it.. ~~ 
,.ncipollnf ~aolto.f"r-m 1111 .,jj,j • ......,..., wllll 111yott. ~ ... Hor oHor ~ dniptoorlfV•od oadornarh of ~ 111 ~to., inc. linhol ...., • .._ 0.. ~......,, 01 -·!I.GI sro.oo. rnoc ...~~ ,~ ..;... ICII990 P'luo!U,Iot
___________ J 
CrJl !ll-7491 
Pitching has been a plus for the Irish all season. Sophomore Missy Linn (13­
7) and freshman Staci Alford (15-6-1) have been outstanding for the Irish. Going into the De Paul doubleheader, Linn had a 
1.39 EHA and had struck out 82 while walking just 29, and Alford, who pitched 11 scoreless innings in game two Tuesday, had a 1.42 EHA and had struck out 100 versus 15 walks. 
"Missy and Staei have car­ried us all year," says Irish catcher Amy Folsom, who was batting .309 before Tuesday. "The pitching has really made the difference for us this season." 
The Irish hitters have had their problems, however. They only managed one run in 16 innings on Tuesday. 
"The hitting has been qutte streaky this year," says Folsom. "It seems like we arc either on or off', and when we are off', we can get into some trouble." 
P1111 HUIII I regtatered trademark of PIZZA Hullnc. 
--------~-­

I
I 

Pleaso 111tntfo1 coupo1 whtn ordering. Ono coupon p11 partyI ptr v~ir ar participating ~zm Hur® rMiauranl\. Nor valid inI combination with any olh11 ~Illl Hur® offer. Pain~ atrademark ~~ 
of ~no Hur, Inc. PepMola ~ oreg~111ed ~ademaril of

1 P~i-Co., Inc. Umired delivery area. Our drivorHarry no more ' rhan 520.00. 1/20 ccO\h redemption value.
I (t)l990 ~no Hut, Inc. DELIVERY 
Call: 232-2499 


<01990 

6-Pack Pepsi-Cola® 
FREE 
with the P.Urthase of any Pairs'" or Large Pizza at regular price. 
VALID ON DEUVUY 01 CARRYOUT Offer expires MAY 30, 1990 

.. 
AP Photo 

Edmonton Oiler goalie Bill Ranford stopped 23 shots last night in a 5-2 win over the Chicago Blackhawks. The Oilers took command in the Campell Conference final with 2 goals from Steve Smith and one from Mark Messier. 
Smith goals bury Blackhawks 
EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) ­Steve Smith scored two goals in a playoff game for the first time in his career as the Edmonton Oilers rolled to their eighth straight victory by beat­ing the Chicago Blackhawks 5-2 Wednesday night in the opener of the Campbell Conference fi­nals. 
Smith, who had only seven goals during the regular season and only five career playoff' goals, scored what proved to be the winning goal at 8:52 of the second period on a screened slap shot from the left point. lie added the Oilers' fourth goal early in the final pnriod when his wrist shot from the right circle hit the post and goaltender Ed Belfour's back before trickling into the net. 
Before Wednesday night, Smith's most famous goal was one he accidentally put into his own net in the third period of Game 7 of the 1986 Smythe Division finals against Calgary, ending the Oilers' two-year reign as Stanley Cup champi­ons. 
The Oilers, who haven't lost since dropping the fourth game of the Smythe Division scmil1­nals against Winnipeg on April 10, host Game 2 Friday night at the Northlands Coliseum. 
Edmonton had not played in eight days since completing a four-game sweep of the Los Angeles Kings in the Smythe fi­nals. But the Oilers lookPd any­thing but rusty against a Chicago club that had to go seven games in each of its first two playoff series. The Blackhawks advanced to the Campbell finals with an 8-2 vic­tory over St. Louis in Game 7 of the Norris finals on Monday 
I  l!l  111  ~  
~  I!  
TOWNHOUSES  
For Rent  

3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 
night. 
The Oilers completely domi­nated the first period, out-shooting Chicago 12-3 and scoring the only goal when Mark Messier took Charlie Huddy's breakout pass at ctm­tcr icc, went in alonn and beat Belfour at 9:32. It was his sixth goal of the playoffs and 1Oth in i 0 career playof'l' games against the Blackhawks. 
Belfour's counterpart, Bill Hanford, madn his best stop late in the period when he foiled Steve Larmer on a solo break-in from the blue line. 
Mark Lamb stretched his point-scoring streak to nine games whnn he scored at 3:17. lie received credit for his sixth goal of the playoffs when Belfour and his dnl'nnse were unable to dear tlw puck after a save and it bouncnd into the nnt off a Chicago player. 
Smith's first goal made it 3-0 and Hanford kept it that was with several outstanding saves, including two on Larmer and another on a 1 0-foot wrist shot by Steve Thomas, who was alone in front. 
Hanford, who has been in goal for all eight games during the streak, lost his shutout 57 seconds into the final period when Esa Tikkancn lost the puck in his own zone and it rolled out in front, where Wayne Presley scored from five feet out for his eighth of the playoffs. 
-

page 20 The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1990 


Jubba Beshin 

Rice was quarterback and tri­captain on the 1989 Irish foot­ball team, leading the squad to a 12-1 record and No. 2 na­tional ranking. Placing fourth as a Reisman trophy candidate, Rice's 884 yards rushing and 1122 yards passing led the team this year. 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail made his mark on the Irish squad early in the season. After re­turning two kick-offs for touchdowns against Michigan, Ismail became the team's top receiver with 535 yards on 27 catches. The sophomore also lead the nation in kick-off re­turn yardage. 
Jubba Beshin surprised many people this year as he won the national epee competition at the NCAA's this year. Beshin's 
crown came in the sophomore's first season of competition and helped the team finish third in the country. 
Holtz 
continued from page 24 

giate football seasons overcame 
the adversity and forced the 
media to center its attention on 
the on-field exploits of his Irish 
football team. 

For his accomplishments, Holtz has been selected as the winner of the Moose Krause Award for Coach of the Year, selected by the Observer Sports staff. This marks the second consecutive year the Irish head football coach has won the award. 
Notre Dame's 12-1 finish and 
Orange Bowl victory over top­
ranked and undefeated 
Colorado guaranteed the Irish 
a No. 2 ranking in the final '89 
Associated Press poll and a le­
gitimate claim to a second­
straight national title. 

Back-to-back 12-win seasons, 
only the second time that has 
been accomplished in college 
football, culminated in a 24-1 
record over the past two years 
that also included a record 23­
game winning streak. 

Victories over six teams then ranked in the top 20 gave Notre Dame the distinction of con­quering the most difficult schedule in the country. Michigan {No. 2), Air Force (No. 17), USC {No. 9). Pittsburgh (No. 7), Penn State (No. 17) and Colorado (No. 1) all fell to the Irish. 
Only a late-season loss to Miami tarnished Notre Dame's otherwise perfect record and prevented the Irish from re­peating as national champions. 
HONORABLE MENTION: 
Head Coach Bob Bayliss has 
the Notre Dame men's tennis 
team poised on the brink of its 
first-ever NCAA tournament 
bid. The third-year Irish coach 
may save your life. tAMERICAN
How you live 
CANCER 
soanv· 
Male 
continued from page 24 

DiLucia's contributions to Irish tennis extend beyond the practice court. however. His decision to attend Notre Dame sparked Bayliss to add a num­ber of top caliber teams to the Irish schedule., attracting a number of talented freshman to this season's squad and placing the team at 16 in the collegiate rankings. As Notre Dame upset perennial powerhouses such as Michigan and Ohio State this year, the program rose to new heights. 
"It was a big risk for Coach to schedule all those hard teams without knowing how good we'd be," says DiLucia. 
Bayliss, however, refuses to take the credit. "We had to challenge David once he got here." says Bayliss. 
DiLucia has met most of those challenges this season, downing Georgia's AI Parker, the top-ranked player at the time, as well as beating those occupying the fifth, 11th, 17th, 20th and 26th spots in the na­tional poll. While these stats are impressive, neither Bayliss nor DiLucia was overly sur­prised at the wins. 
"Just because those people are ranked above David, does not mean that they're better than him," says Bayliss. "I don't think there's anyone in the country he's not capable of beating." 
"I don't really worry about the rankings," says DiLucia, who heads up the Irish roster at the number one spot in both singles and doubles. "I had played with most of these peo­ple before and went into the matches thinking I was going to beat them." 
Part of this confidence stems 
from DiLucia's extensive exper­
ience on the national circuits. 
He has played in almost every 
major professional tournament 
and was good enough after 
high school to consider turning 
professional. 

"I could have turned pro, but 
what if I got hurt or somet­
hing?" says DiLucia. 

Instead the psychology major 
got hooked on the Notre Dame 
mystique and came here in 
order to combine athletics with 
academics. · 

Planning to go pro after 
graduation, DiLucia realizes 
that success on the men's tour 
will require something special. 
"Every professional men's 
tennis player is a great athlete," 
says DiLucia. "You have to be 
able to lift your game above 
that." 
STEAKS PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 

Dave Dilucia 

Raghib ISmail 
Bayliss feels DiLucia has what it takes both physically and mentally to make it as a pro. 
"David has a world class vol­ley and great backhand slice," says Bayliss. "Those are weapons that, when combined with his other skills, separate him from the rest. 
"He also is very self-moti­vated and has lots of moxie. He prefers to come at you. I've seen him dig deep on big points and stick that crucial volley or serve." 
"I try and go out every day with my long-term goals in mind," says DiLucia, claiming that 70-80% of tennis is mental. "I play each point one at a time as if I were in a pro match." 
DiLucia amassed records this spring of 22-3 in singles and 13-4 with doubles partner Mike Wallace, allowing him to move from his original ranking of 44 to his current position of 23rd in the collegiate polls. 
While Bayliss feels DiLucia has the capacity to win the indi­vidual NCAA title before he graduates, for now the Norristown, PA native is wait­ing expectedly for the team's tournament invitation. 
Thanks to this Athlete of the Year, DiLucia and the entire team may just get their wish. 
Honorable Mention: Run­ners-up to DiLucia include football stars Tony Rice and Raghib Ismail, as well as fenc­ing standout Jubba Beshin. 


Muffet McGraw 

has upgraded the schedule, fa­cilities and talent since coming to Notre Dame from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1988. The Irish are currently ranked No. 17 in the country. 
Women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw led the Irish to a 23-6 overall mark in the '89­'90 season, including a perfect 18-0 record in Midwestern Collegiate Conference play. Notre Dame defeated NCAA tournament qualifiers UCLA and Vanderbilt last season de­spite playing much of the sea­son with only seven players. Unfortunately, the NCAA selec­tion committee overlooked the Irish in picking its 32 tourna­ment teams. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
r....-.r.way.upa......... 
..-....y..... 
219-259-9925 

The Crime of the Week is the April 26th alleged rape of a Saint Mary's College student that occured at approximately 
9:30 pm somewhere on Saint Mary's Road. 
At this time we have no information of the description of possible assailants. Anyone with any information regarding description or lead information should contact Crimestoppers at: 
288-STOP 
If you have any information regarding this or any other crime 
at Notre Dame, please call Crimestoppers ar 288-STOP. You don't have to give your name and will be eligible for a cash reward . 
I 
I r 
~ 

.. 
---------~··-------------~-----~--------------------~-~-------~--------~~---­~ 
Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 21 
I 
I 
I 
1 
ond goal was emblematic of the field of the higher-ranked team. 
~ 

entire game, as an Irish de­The top four teams receive first
Lax Female 
continued from page 24 
otlwr seniors gave their all, and they're really an inspiration. I'm glad that tlwy eould be a part of this." 
Notre Damn l1~d 4-2 at the half. y1~t tlw Spartans eame out firing in tlw sneond half. But tlwir offnnsivn attempts were nxtinguislwd like birthday ean­dlns in a tornado, as thn Irish made sure that thn Spartans failed to rllmr all six dearing attl~mpts in the third quartnr. 
Brian Sehirf opnnnd tlw Irish sncond hall' seoring, drilling a shot past Michigan State goal­knnpnr Chris Barbnr from in front of tlw net. 
Thn Spartans ;wswnrnd, making tlw scorn !i-3 before junior midfieldnr .John Capano of Westfield, N . .J. sPnt the Spartans to thn floor with a devastating offensive puneh. Capano, monwntarily alone in front of tlw Michigan Statn net, blastnd a point-blank shot into tlw eagt~. putting thP Irish up to stay. 
Y nt th1~ Spartans did not quit, as thrnn difTnrent players scorml bnf'orP the Pnd of thP third quarter. This would have proved fatal to the Irish hunt for a tournanwnt bid. had not .John Capano and Ed Lamb comP through, smothnring the Spartan eonwbaek attempt. 
"This was the culmination of lots of hard work and it's fi­nally paid ofT." noted Capano. ''I'm prntty happy with the way this snason is turning out." 
In tlw l'ourth quart1~r. Capano again snnt the Spartans nwling, rwtting a hat trick with II :37 IPft in tlw matrh. Snnior o!Ten­siw manstro Brian Mellugh, currently sixth on tlw Notre IJanw all-timn seoring list with II 0 points (77 goals and 43 as­sists), sealnd Notre Damn's bid with thnw goals in thn final (,:45 of the mateh, to give him four on tlw day. Mc:llugh's sPe­fender stole the ball from a Spartan midfielder and 11ipped it to McHugh, who raced down the field and found the net, bringing the fans that jammed Moose Krause Stadium to their feet. 
NOTES: The Irish, as the #12 seed in the tournament, will face the #5 team at the home 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team 
round byes. Notre Dame could 
possibly face Brown, Harvard, 
Loyola, or Yale. The University 
of North Carolina is currently 
ranked #5, but with several 
games remaining, the Tarheel's 
position should change. The 
NCAA selection committee will 
announce bids on Sunday, May 
13. 
' 


continued from page 24 
NCAA berth. Notre Dame told 
the NIT not to consider it be­
cause the limited number of 
Irish players would have diffi­
culty playing several games 
within a short time period. 
· Even better times could be 
ahead for the Irish in 1990-91. 
The Irish lose only three-point 
ace Lisa Kuhns and have added 
some solid freshman. 
California standout Lisa 
Leslie, who scored over 100 
points in one half this season 
and has yet to choose a college, 
might be the big-name player 
that could put the Irish into the 
national spotlight. 
"Next year, it will come to­gether," Robinson said. "We're just a big person away from being a Top 20 team. I think it's going to take some big numbers, which we're capable of doing. We have to play our top game every game." 
Even with the recent success, Robinson knows there is room for improvement in her game. 
She will get a big chance for that improvement when she tries out for the U.S. national team in May. Three different teams will come out of those tryouts. 
"I really need to improve on moving without the ball and shooting off the dribble," Robinson said. "I need to play more under control. I have a tendency to play out of control and throw the ball away. Those arc times when I should slow it down." 
If Hobinson was out of con­trol and posted those big re­sults this past SPason, a season under control in 1990-91 should be a big one for her and the Irish. 
HONORABLE MENTION: Two members of the women's swimming team -Becky Wood and Tanya Williams -were cho­
sen honorable mention. They became the only two swimmers in Notre Dame history to gain an invitation to the NCAA Tournament. 
CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILY OR 2 PAIRS 

EXTENDED WEAR OF TINTED 
$399§ $9998 
Softmate clear. dolly. or So"mate BorBa l ·o· tinted ex1ended wear lens•s len~e~. In 2 dttfe,.nt colon Eye e•om requtred tor contacts Some power restrictions apply 

Becky Wood 


Tanya Williams 


Kathy Cunningham 

Wood swam at the NCAAs in the 200 breaststroke, while Williams participated in the 400-yard individual medley. 
Senior volleyball captain Kathy Cunningham, who was a solid performer during her four years at Notrn Dame, was also an honorable mention choice. Cunningham has accnpted a po­sition as a graduate assistant this fall at Illinois. 
had plenty reason to celebrate 
yesterday as they wrapped up an NCAA tournament bid with a 12-6 win over Michigan St. 


Buy One Pair -Get Another For A $1. 
Buy a complete pair of glasses (frames and lenses) from our Fashion Collection and get another pair from our recently expanded Premium selection (same prescription) for just ONE DOLLAR! 
Offer lncludet clear. piOitlc. len•• No other dileounf1. previous ordeA. or sole "•rna apply. Limited Time Offer. 


Eye harna Available othef doctors Rxa ftlled • All Insurance pions welcome GM Preferred VIsion Provide,... progron' •.·etroooliton Ford • Chrysler • Worner Gear • fo.'·>·I•COid 
EE ~[J;]~ 
l l ll E. Ireland Road 291-4000 

page 22 The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1990 
Sinnes, Hartwell lead Irish over Valpo 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Freshman Dave Sinnes low­ered his nation-leading earned run average as the Notre Dame baseball team rolled over Valparaiso on Wednesday, beating the Crusaders 6-4 and 11-1 at Jake Kline Field while raising its reeord to 36-10. 
Sinnes pitelu~d five scoreless innings in the second game, lowering his impressive EHA from 0.81 to 0. 73. lie allowed five hits, one walk, and struck out eight. 
Last year's squad, a group of old men compared to this young team bristling with raw talent, finished with a 48-19-1 record, reached the NCAA tournament, had four players drafted and was 37-12 at this point. That team edged Valparaiso twice in one-run contests. 
"I think we caught Valparaiso while they were down," said baseball coach Pat Murphy. "They are definitely a better club than they were today." 
Freshman Pat Leahy started the first game for the Irish but was pulled in the fourth in fa­vor of senior Brian Piotrowicz. Piotrowicz pitched the final four innings, allowing four hits and striking out three. He al­lowed three runs, all unearned. 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early 3-0 lead in the first in­ning. Craig Counsell walked to open the game, Mike Coss sin­gled and senior captain Ed Lund doubled both home. Freshman Eric Danapilis fol­lowed with another double, scoring Lund. 
Ewing lifts Knicks over Celts 
NEW YORK (AP) -Patrick Ewing kept the New York Knicks in the playoffs Wednesday night with 33 points and 19 rebounds in a 102-99 victory over the Boston Celtics. 
Boston, which scored an NBA record 15 7 points on 6 7 per­cent shooting in taking a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 series, saw a much more intense defensive effort by the Knicks in Game 3. 
The fourth game will be Friday night at Madison Square Garden, and if the Knicks win that, the fifth and deciding game would be Sunday at Boston Garden, where the Celtics have beaten the Knicks 26 consecutive times since Feb. 29, 1984. 
Ewing had 21 points and 16 rebounds at halftime, but he committed his fourth foul early in the third quarter and left the game with 7:57 left in the pe­riod and the score tied 60-60. 
At times this season, the Knicks have folded in that situ­ation, but not on this occasion. 
With Ewing out of the game, the Knicks outscored Boston 21-19 and took an 81-79 lead into the final quarter. 
Ewing then returned to the game and scored the first five points of the fourth quarter, giving New York a seven-point advantage it never lost. 
The Knicks expanded the margin to 91-83 with six min­utes left, but the Celtics closed to 100-99 on a free throw by Reggie Lewis with 29 seconds remaining. 
Backup forward Kenny Walker, in the game because starter Charles Oakley fouled out with 14 points and 13 re­bounds, then hit a side jumper from 15 feet for a three-point lead with 7.6 seconds left. 
On the Celtics' final posses­sion, Larrv Bird missed an un­

~-~~ 

The Observer I John Studebaker 
Joe Binkiewicz has returned to the Irish lineup from an ankle injury. His return coupled with that of Eric Danapilis from a knee inury will provide even more punch to an offense that has shown signs of greatness in 
the last week. 

· In the second, sophomore Irish. 
Dan Bautch walked, stole sec­Although the Irish scored six ond, and scored on a Mike Coss runs, many opportunities to 
single, making the score 4-0. score were squandered. Notre 
With the score 4-1 in the bot­Dame finished with seven hits tom of the fourth, freshman and five runners left on base. Edwin Hartwell blasted a solo "I was a little disappointed home run to right, putting the with the way we executed with Irish up 5-l. With the bases runners on base in the first still empty, Counsell promptly game and in the second until followed with a home run of his the game opened up," said own to the same field, providing Murphy. another insurance run as he In the second game, Sinnes concluded the scoring for the sparkled through five, and by 
contested·3-point attempt that would have tied the game. 
Bird finished with 31 points, Dennis Johnson 18 and Kevin McHale 17 for the Celtics. Gerald Wilkins had 15 points for New York. 
Suns 120, Jazz 105 
PHOENIX (AP) -Kevin Johnson shook off a lingering case of intestinal flu to score 16 of his 29 points in the third period as the Phoenix Suns beat the Utah Jazz 120-105 Wednesday night for a 2-1 lead in .their first-round playoff senes.
,.
i 
1 
~ 
Jill'! 
~ 
~
! 
Ill'! 
!~ 
~ 
I 
~ ~ 
I
I 

................................................................................................................... 
The Final I 
Phoenix can clinch the best­of-5 Western Conference series with a victory in Game 4 here Friday night. If the Utah wins, Game 5 will be played Sunday in Salt Lake City. 
The loss was the 1Oth straight at the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum since March 1986 for the Jazz, who are 3-35 here in their his­tory. 
Thurl Bailey paced Utah with 30 points, Karl Malone had 26 and John Stockton 22. 
, 
1..................................................................................................................... 
Hours i 
lkst""'""fu", d""''fue '"'"'"" '""dw;OOJ;og "'""fFi""' ~ 
Week, Kinko's will be open and ready to assist when you need us. Jill'! C'Alme into Kink~~o ~~:~~t~~~i~t~t~r:~~~~::papers, resumes ~
0 I
OPEN EARLY, ~ 
OPEN LATE, ~ OPEN WEEKENDS ~ Mon.-Frt.-7:00a.m.-l1:00p.m. ~ 
Sat.-Sun.-9:00a.m.-6:00p.m. ~ 
271-0398 ~ 18187 State Road 23 ~ 
I

kinko·s· 1 
the copy center I 
the time the fifth inning was over the team had the game in hand and he was relieved by Chris Michalak. In 49 1/3 in­nings this year, Sinnes has al­lowed only 19 hits while walk­ing 30. 
The scoring started for the Irish in the second, when Lund led off the inning with a double to right center and moved to third on a fly ball to right by Coss. Dan Bautch laid down a bunt on the third base side, beating the throw and scoring Lund. 
After a run in the third, the Irish scored three in the fourth and six in the fifth. 
With the score 4-0 in the fourth and Jacobs on third, Lund doubled down the left­field line to score Jacobs. Lund raised his average 24 points in the two games, going 2-for-3 with two HBl in the first game and 3-l'or-3 with three doubles and two HBI in the second. llis average now stands at . 290, and he leads the team in dou­bles with 12. 
"Before today I hadn't been hitting the ball as well as I wanted to," said Lund. "It was probably a combination of not getting the ball to fall and not hitting it hard enough." 
In the fifth inning, Counsell reached first on an error by the second baseman, and consecu­tive singles by Joe Binkiewicz, Frank Jacobs and Erie Danapilis accounted for two runs, making the score 7-0 and putting runners on second and third. Pinch-hitter Eric Hartwell, who had blasted a home run in the first game, came up with another one, this time a 400-foot rocket to right­
center  field.  This  made  the  
score  10-0 and the  Irish  had  
the game locked up.  

Michalak pitched a scoreless sixth inning and senior Tony Livorsi closed in the seventh, allowing one run. 

We're Fighting For Your Life. 
American Heart ft Association V 

Ship Home With 

On Campus 
May 5-May 12 
La Fortune Student Center The Dooley Room, First Floor 
• 
Avoid the Mall Traffic!! 

• 
We Ship UPS, DHL and Others 

• 
$1 00 Free Insurance for UPS 

• 
Boxes, Tubes, Tape, Labels 


• Save $1.00 on UPS with Ad 
On S.R. 23 
Convenient Location 
Less than a Mile from Campus on 23 Just Past Ironwood, By the Subway 
• 
Passport Photos in 5 minutes 

• 
Packaging Service, Supplies 


• Open Sunday May 6Jb 

~-----~--­
Thursday, May 3, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
IT 

ACROSS 26 "-Got a 61 Query as to how 
Thursday 
Secret" Roman got4 p.m. Lecture: "Towards a United European House: 1 Possible revue 
28 Gore or Bradley Cleopatrareview
Helations Between Changes in East and West," Andrei S. 
32 Shore-dinner 64 Nobelist Wiesel 
5 Trackman 

Markovitz, Department of Political Science, Boston 
dish 65 Miss Dinsmore 
Owens

University. Hoom 131 Decio. Sponsored by Kellogg 
37 Certain vein 66 It's east of the
10 Cat call 

Institute with Committee for European Studies. 
14 Valhalla V.I.P. 38 Query re early Urals czar's reign 67 Luge
15 A gazelle 42 Omani, e.g. 68 This Mr. went to 
16 Music for Mimi 

Friday 
17 Query re Chinese 43 Actors onstage town leader's Beijing 44 V.I.P.'s at teas 69 Dumbbell spree 
LAST DAY OF CLASSES 
Board of Trustees Meeting. Center for Continuing 48 Ham saver? 
20 Mate

Education. 49 Flight to a height DOWN 
21 Star in Pegasus 

51 Dobbin's dinner 1 Stadium 
22-out

12 p.m. Humanities Colloquium: "Rational and Casual features
55 Vital statistic 
(manage)

Explanation in Psychology: Does Cognitive Science Close 2 Fit 
23 Spack's journey 58 It's on the watch 
the Gap?" Steven Horst, Philosophy. Room 131 Decio. 3 Eyeshade 
24 Sites of combat 59 Near 4 Provide 5 Actress Wyatt 6 Energy unit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
CAMPUS 1 Dr. J, once 8 Trawler gear 
Thursday 

9 A May for all 
4:45 p.m. Memorial Mass for Deceased Members and 
seasons? 
Families, sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame/Saint 
10 Cartogram 
Mary's. Father Anthony Lauck, Church of Loretto, Saint 
11 An lroquoian 
­
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL RETURNS 
All University owned refrigerators must be returned 
to Stepan Courts May 4th between 2:00 and 5:00 pm 
They must be CLEAN and DEFROSTED in order to receive your $20 advance deposit 

%an~ :You
Rny questions, Call 239-7757 
Mary's College. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Chicken Italiano Beef Turnover w/ gravy Eggplant Parmesan Reuben Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 

Pork Roast Hawaiian Seafood Kabobs Broiled Chicken Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~E.i S'i\JI'\0, ~\\f>.\ ~tR£. \~ '(OJ'R£ GOING iO\l 00\t-IG It-\ 1'0 GU OUR TI-lE. ()J'\'t\ELD? 
GJ'f., ()J\ I W\.li lX:l~'\''iG'JE.'ltN 
OONT iQIJ JOIN ~w~~ 
ffiE Offi£.R 1'\.Ai?.' 
lt.t>.\A. ?.' 
-
BILL WATTERSON 
C~ G\JiS, 
IT'S ji)ST 1>. 
GAME.' ~IS 
\<:. S\Jf'ro'5ED TO B£ r\J~! 

Gr>.tllt.S AAE Clr\l'( ruN W\\EN '{0\J WIN, \30!-IE· 
HEP-.1).' iO.l'R~ 
GONNII-. M(>..K£. 
US LOSE.' 
12 Cry in a sty 30 Scent 41 Plains Indian 55 Summer coolers 13 Living follower 31 Guns a motor 45 Caesarean 56 Lobster's lung 18 Northern 32 Exchange words 57 Entertainer 
American 33 Arum plant Adams46 Inveighed34 Jacob's twin
19 "In the twinkling 59 "Bullets" in 
35 Et al. and etc., 47 Hair like silk, e.g. 
-eye" poker
e.g. 50 Employ again 
24 Air: Comb. form 60 Mild expletive 
36 J.F.K. sight 

25 "To your health!" 52 Leading 62 Role for Buddy 
39 Pate de foie 27 General under 53 "Jerusalem Ebsen Marcos Delivered" poet 
40"-the 63 Luckman of 
29 Franchot of films 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

ramparts ... " 54 Slowpoke football fame 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
, I 

AND THERE'S PLENTY MORE wH£RE THAI CAME FROM IF yOv £V£R TRY To KISS 
ME LIKE THAT A&fiiN! 
\ 


----------~---------------------------------------------------­
Sports 
Thursday, May 3, 1990 

They were the best in 1989-90 Irish athletics 
Robinson ruled the court, Dilucia has but best could come later ND on a roll 
By GREG GUFFEY Hobinson's three years. The By CHRIS COONEY Sports Editor Irish were 12-15 when Assistant Sports Editor Hobinson was a senior at Paul No female athl1~te dominated VI High Sehool in Turnersville, If you don't know it by now. her sport more in 1989-90 than N.J. . you'rp way out of it. Notre junior basketball guard Kanm Hobinson made an impact her Dame has a world-class tennis Robinson. freshman year, playing along­player in its midst. For that. she is the unani­side stellar Notre Dame guard David DiLucia, The Ob­mous recipient of the 1990 Mary Gavin, averaging 7.7 server's winner of the Moose 
Moose Krause Award as the points per game and helping Krause Award for BPst Male -top female athlete at Notre the Irish to a 20-8 ledger. She Athlete, has been getting a lot Dame. picked up the pace her sopho­of attention rocently, and with Robinson earned numerous more year. scoring 12.5 points good reason. The leader of the individual honors during the per game as the Irish finished surging Irish tennis team has season, including the 21-11 and seventh in the had another stellar season. Midwestern Collegiate National Invitational Not only docs DiLueia's list of Conference Player of the Year. Tournament. upset victims this year read likP She scored 437 points to av­Robinson came into 1989 a virtual who's who in colle­erage 15.1 points per game. more focused and realizing her giate tennis, the 23rd ranked shot 47 percent from the field roles. That focus showed as sophomow has been the cata­and dished out 137 assists. Hobinson racked up stats and lyst on a 24-4 Irish squad seek­She was the catalyst for the the Irish racked up victories. ing a bid to the NCAA tourna­Irish, leading them to a 23-6 "I knew I had to score and be ment. record which included a perfect a leader on the floor," she said. "David has del1nitcly raised 18-0 mark in the MCC. Even "We had mueh more team play the level of the rest of the with those numbers, Notre this year. We did more with out team," says Notre Dame head Dame did not gain a berth in talent this year." coaeh Bob Bayliss. "By seeing the NCAA Tournament. Even with all of the individual his intensity in practice and "I was really disappointed and team accomplishments, from playing with him, the about that," Robinson said. "I Robinson felt something was others have absorbed some of thought we had a great year." missing after being denied an his talent." The women's basketball pro­
see MALE I page 20 

gram has made great strides in see FEMALE I page 21 

Holtz kept NO on top despite distractions 
By FRANK PASTOR will have to be a much better versity, defensive tackle George Associate Sports Editor team this season." Williams was academically Following a perfect 12-0 sea­ineligible for the season and 
Even before the season be­son and Fiesta Bowl vietory drop end Arnold Ale trans­gan, Lou Holtz recognized that over third-ranked and unbeaten ferred to UCLA after losing a 1989 would be a challenge un­West Virginia, Notre Dame was bout with homesickness. like any he had ever under­named national champions in Even lloltz's past came back taken. '88 for the eighth time in its to haunt him when his name 
The fourth-year Irish coach history. became associated with the had never defended a national Suddenly Holtz fell in line trial of for·mpr ~innPsota as­championship before, but he with legendary Irish coaches sistant coach Luther Darville, 
knew what it would takn to re­Ara Parseghian and Dan who was tried for embezzling peat. Devine, who also guided Notre money and using it to pay play­"There's no way you can put Dame to national titles in just nrs. Despite much spoeulation 
a national championship com­their third year at the helm. in the national press, Holtz's pletely in the past," Holtz said. But the new year brought a name nevnr came up in thn ac­"There are going to be some host of challenges. both on and tual trial. 
fall-out effects from it, both off the field. The Irish had to "I am amazed at the attention positive and negative. As replace 15 lettermen, including we have received the last three coaches we have to discipline seven starters, from the cham­seasons," said Holtz. "People ourselves to do the things that pionship team while the most told me to expect a great deal have to be done from a coach­difficult schedule in the country of media attention here. but ing standpoint, because there loomed on the horizon. that still might be one area that are more demands on your Inside linebacker and '88 exceeds my expectations."time." Butkus Award finalist Michael lloltz quickly found out what 
Stonebreaker was lost for the it was like to live under a mi­"The players know now what season when incidents stem­croscope, something his prede­it takes to get to the top. Are ming from an '89 automobile cessors at Notre Dame know
The Observer I Steve Moskop 

they willing to do those things accident resulted in his suspen­only too well. To his credit, the
Coach Lou Holtz, who won the Moose Krause Award for the second 
again? Do they understand that sion from the team. veteran of 19 (now 20) colle­
straight year, has been the key man in leading the Irish to a 24-1 over 
the challenge is much greater Tailback Tony Brooks was 
the last two years. 

this year than ever before? We denied readmission to the uni-see HOLTZ I page 20 

Irish lacrosse sews up bid to NCAA tournament 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team rolled over the Michigan State Spartans 12-6 yesterday behind a tremendous defense and an opportunistic offense, assuring itself of its first-ever NCAA Tournament bid. 
The Irish, who finished the regular season at 9-6, will most likely be the twelfth seed of the twelve teams in the tourna­ment. That position is automat­ically assigned to the team which receives the western re­gional bid. The loss dropped the Spartans, who overturned the Irish in 1987 and 1989 at East Lansing to gain tourna­ment bids, to 7-6 on the season. 
"This was a great win for us," stated a jubilant Kevin Corrigan, head coach of the Irish sqwgl. "We were a little nervous to start off, but we've worked for this all year. The good thing about this season is that when you're rebuilding, there comes a point when you don't lose to teams you should beat. Now, we can play with confidence and beat teams that are a little better than us. Looking back on the season, we can say that we'd like to have more wins, but we didn't lose to any bad teams." 
"The key to this win was the fact that our defense played tremendously. Our midfielders played tremendous defense, too. To top it off, Chris Parent came up huge in the cage. The defense kept the pressure off Chris, but when people got through, he came up with the big saves. The defense was really instrumental in allowing our offense to score as many goals as they did." 

The Notre Dame defensive corps of Dave Barnard, Pete Gillin, Eamon McAnaney, Jeff Salamon, and Mike Stevens raised the meaning of 'tenacious defense' to a new level, as they chopped, knocked, slashed, and ran the Spartan offense into confusion, effec­tively neutralizing a Michigan State attack which had scored an average of 12 goals per game. 
On the day, the Irish defense allowed the Spartans a paltry 34 shots on goal, while scoop­ing up an incredible 72 ground balls. The defense also suc­ceeded on 20 of 30 clearing at­tempts. "The defense wins the game," noted an exuberant as­sistant coach Gerry Byrne. who works primarily with the de­fense. 
In the first quarter, sopho­more Mike Sullivan broke the Notre Dame lacrosse single­season assist record with an assist to Brian McHugh's first goal of the day. Sullivan, who later added a goal and another assist. raised his assist total to 31, surpassing the old record of 29, which he had held jointly with Steve Pearsall (1982 sea­son), Tom Grote (1986 season), and John McLachlan (1987 sea­son). 
"I didn't know that I'd set the record until after the game," said Sullivan, savoring the Irish win. "I know most of the guys on the Michigan State team. The season isn't over yet, but our work has definitely paid off. We're happy to be going, and I hope we represent the Midwest well. I've really got no expectations, other than that I'm going to play as hard as ever." 
Junior attackman Mike Sennet added a goal in the sec­ond quarter on an assist from Brian Mayglothling, who had scored unassisted in the first quarter. Sennet's goal was the lone score for the Irish in the second period, and helped to preserve the Irish momentum. On the play. Mayglothling took a steal the length of the field, was swarmed by Michigan State defenders, and tossed the ball to the waiting Sennet, who buried a shot in the back of the net. 
"''m just glad that the seniors on this team were able to be a part of the suc.cess," observed Sennet. "Salamon and all the 
see LAX I page 21 







