
VOL. XXIII NO. 20 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1990 
• THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

CARE works to prevent rape on ND/SMC campuses 
By PETER LOFTUS 
CAMPUS 
Assistant News Editor 
RAPE
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). a long-standing club at Saint Mary's, attained club status at Notre Dame at the beginning of this semester. CARE, in conjunction with Sex Offense 
At a recent meeting, the members of Services (SOS) in South Bend, has CAHE discussed a wide range of topics: already distributed the oft-seen "No methods of self-defense, phones around means No" posters and buttons around campus, lights in D-2, male-female campus. discussion groups. They laughed, but they Also involved in CARE are Renee had a very serious subject in the backs of Levesque, Saint Mary's co-cordinator; their minds: rape. Jennifer Neidenbach, Notre Dame co­
"We want to create an awareness of coordinator; and Maureen Ostrosky, and try to prevent further sexual abuse treasurer. on campus," said NO senior Beth Maus, All agreed that rape is a "big publicity chairwoman for CARE. problem" on the ND and SMC 
CARE was established on Saint Mary's campuses-bigger than people think. campus about eight years ago, according "The biggest hidden problem is date to the alliance's adviser, Betsy Pawlicki, rape," said Neidenbach. "It happens a assistant director of residence life at lot." Notre Dame. Those in charge of CARE stressed that 
Approximately 25 students from Notre rape is problem that affects everybody, Dame and Saint Mary's attended the men and women alike. They said they group's first meeting of the academic would like to see more men involved in year. CARE. Only one male showed up· for the 
To achieve CARE's main purpose, first meeting. events are planned similar to ones held in "We're not a 'men-hating' or­the past-big-name speakers, programs ganization," said Maus. for students, and programs for sexual Every man who cares about a woman offense counselors in both the ND/SMC is affected by the rape issue, said and South Bend areas. Ostrosky. 
One of the events discussed at CARE's CARE hopes to enhance its ef­organizational meeting was the "dating fectiveness by collaborating with many game." The game, which is still in the other organizations on campus-and planning stages, will be similar to the one not just "women's concerns" organiza­on T.V., said Maus, but would feature tions, said Maus. questions that are sex-offense oriented CARE encourages and welcomes all and would prompt discussion. The game new members, including men. Anyone will focus on attitudes and perspectives of interested in joining the organization 
A view from Hesburgh Library shows Sacred Heart and the Golden Dome
men and women concerning sex and should get in touch with Maus, Ostrosky, sexuality. Neidenbach, or Levesque. 
ND ecurity to improve parking lot conditions 
"L.A. Law" stars join fight against rape 
Special to The Observer 
rape or attempted rape and one 
CAMPUS in every 15 college men admit 
The Rape Treatment Center to committing sexual assault." at Santa Monica Hospital Medi­In addition to the film, which cal Center has asked college contains important information
RAPE
students and administrators to 
about rape and prevention join them in the fight against 
strategies, campaign materials 
campus rape by supporting the Bernsen and has already been include powerful ads and first comprehensive national disrupted by the Center to more posters for colleges to adopt,campaign against campus sex­than half the universities in the and proposals for state legisla­ual assault. country. The Center encourages tion requiring colleges to im­At a press conference on college administrators to adopt plement written procedures for September 4, "L.A. Law" televi­the film as part of orientation handling sexual assault cases 
sion series stars Susan Dey and programs for all incoming stu­and mandatory rape preventionCurbing Bernsen joined Rape dents. programs for freshmen. Treatment Center Director Gail "The goal of the campaign "Students must understand 
Abarbanel to announce the na­and the film is to reduce the that rape is not sex; it's an act tional program which includes epidemic number of campus of violence with devastating a new 20-minute film about sexual assaults," stated Abar­consequences," stated actress campus sexual assault. banel. "Recent studies indicate The film, entitled "Campus that each year, one in every six Rape," is hosted by Dey and college women is a victim of see FILM I page 4 
Philippines want control of U.S. Air base 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -Reminded that the Philippines oversee the dismantling of the Philippine negotiators told the has had sovereignty over Clark bases," Alunan said in a radio United States Thursday that since 1979, Alunan said he was interview. they want complete control of also referring to "operational "It is important for us to have the U.S.-run Clark Air Base "as control." It was unclear a treaty or an arrangement," he soon as possible." whether "as soon as possible" said. "If there is no 
The Philippine panel made meant before the lease expires. understanding, nothing will the demand during the third U.S. and Philippine officials come of the bases such that by day of talks on the future of began the talks Tuesday. Sept. 16, 1991, they will have to Clark, Subic Bay naval base and Also Thursday, Alunan said leave." four smaller facilities, whose President Corazon Aquino will Chief U.S. negotiator Richard lease expires in September order steps to dismantle the Armitage said Tuesday the days 1991. bases unless the two nations of a large American military 
"The Philippines took the reach an agreement on their presence here were coming to position that it shall assume future by January. an end. The United States sovereign control of Clark as "If there is no treaty or ar­maintains 40,000 troops, soon as possible," Philippine rangement, let's say by January Defense Department civilians spokesman Rafael Alunan told ... then we will most likely and military dependents at the reporters. create a committee that will six bases. 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security will be adding call boxes, reassigning student parking, and putting up row markers in the student parking lots within the next six weeks, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of security. 
Due to the construction of the new DeBartolo academic quad, Notre Dame security has been forced to reassign the parking for students, faculty, and staff. 
The parking changes were announced last spring, but the students did not think about the consequences until the changes were actually put into effect this semester, Johnson said. 
Many complaints have occurred concerning the 06 lot, located behind the security building. This lot is reserved for the women's halls of south quad, Carroll llall, and the seniors in Pangborn, Morrissey and Fisher. Seniors from Alumni, Dillon and Sorin will soon be assigned to 06 in order to fill some of the empty spaces. 
llowever, this lot is not only used by residence hall students. It is used by security, golfers, and visitors to the campus, Johnson said. 
Students have also complained about the safety of this lot. Johnson said that better lighting and call boxes will be installed within the next 3-4 weeks. 
Johnson also said that an escort is always available if needed by going to the main gate and asking the officer. From this point, the student is asked to wait in the car, with the doors locked, at the en­trance of the lot until SafeWalk or security arrives. 
The remainder of the halls have been assigned to the newly paved and striped 02 lot. However, because of the large size, many students have difficulty finding their cars. 
Joe Wilson, District 4 senator, has been working on a solution for this problem. Wilson is in the process of proposing a plan to number the rows and parking spaces in the lot. "It has been surprising how cooperative Notre Dame Security and Plant Management have been in order to increase con­venience and safety for the students," Wilson said. 
see PARK /page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Inclusive language not for everyone 
Almost a month into the Year of Women, I find myself bothered by the effects the des­ignation is having on my life. Although as a female I applaud the effort to recognize gender-related ten­sion at this Univer-Monica Yant sity. I am troubled by Assoc. News Editor the assumption that I am SUPPOSED to feel oppressed, for lack of a better word, as a female on this campus. 

The issue that first comes to mind is gen­der inclusive language. Last week in one of my classes, our professor asked us to re­frain from using words such as "man," "mankind," etc., in favor of more neutral terms like "individual." If I understood the request correctly, it was made because our conversations, by using masculine words to describe both males and females, were of­fensive, excluding and degrading to the women in the class. 
Personally, I am offended by the mere fact that anyone would assume I should be of­fended. The basis of gender inclusive lan­guage seems to rest on the idea that ~Y eliminating traditional speech, women will finally gain the equality they feel they have so long been denied. 
Rubbish. The only thing such elimination does is present a picture of women as un­derconfident creatures grasping at any straw they can find. In fact, if anything, gender inclusive language serves to make the issue greater by putting it in a negative spotlight. 
I've discussed the issue with many people, male and female. Not a single male could tell me he gained feelings of superiority by reading passages of the Bible that refer to groups of people as "mankind." And I have encountered few females who are truly dis­turbed by the Fight Song's references to ND's victorious "sons." 
My roommate had a classroom experience similar to mine, but instead of a request to use gender inclusive language, her professor mandated that every composition be strewn with "she" in every place that "he" would have been used. 
At the risk of being stoned to death by campus feminists, I must say that it all seems a little petty. Frankly, I feel that the issue at hand is confidence and security about one's self as a female AND an indi­vidual, not trying to take something away from men or any other group that has been given "better press," historically speaking. 
So I won't be buying my clothes at a store called "Womyn" or correcting my speech ev­ery time I say anything with a male refer­ence. It's just as demeaning to them as it is to me, and in an age where rape and as­saults plague our lives, it seems there are more important sexual issues at hand. 
And when I go to church, I'll end my prayers with "Amen... " with NO reserva­tions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 
Production News
Wendy Cunningham Brad Galko Jeanne Blasi Catherine Kane 
Accent Brian Grunert 
Systems 
Fran Moyer
Cesar Capella Sports
Robyn Simmons Paul Froning Scott Brutocao Rolando de Aguiar 
Circulation 
Bill O'Rourke VIewpoint 
Matt Novak Julie Shepherd 
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 21. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 
71 
Yesterday's low: 48 
Nation's high: 1 0 0 (Lake Havasu City, Ariz.) 
Nation's low: 2 9 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: It will be mostly cloudy Friday with a 70 percent 
FRONTS: chance of showers. Highs will be from the• • • • middle to upper 60s. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Lows will be in the
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
lower 50s. Mostly
Pressure 

cloudy and cool
® (9 t;~~ ~ m 0 A Exxxj 
Saturday. Highs will be 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
in the lower 60s. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Voter Registration will be held in the O'Hara Lounge (next to the Information Desk) in LaFortune today from 11 a..m to 3 p.m. Mock LSA T will be held Saturday at 8 a.m. in the 
Cushing Auditorium. The event is sponsored by the Pre­
The International Student Law Society and is open to all members. Those preparingOrganization picnic will be today at Holy Cross for the LSAT are strongly encouraged to attend. Field starting at 4 p.m. It will be for all members and those who wish to fmd out more about us. 
South of the Border picnic will be held A memorial service will be held for Liz Baer Saturday from 4 to 6:30 p.m., Stepan Field. and Regi Symonds, Class of '93. The mass will be held at 
4:45 p.m. at the Church of Loretto on Monday. 
The Hispanic American OrganizationCome join the fun at ICHTUS, a campus-wide will have a van going to Spanish Mass at San Estevan's Christian Fellowship group. The meeting begins at 6:30 Church in South Bend. The van will pick up at 8:50 p.m. at 
p.m. 
in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. the Library circle and 8:55 p.m. at the main circle Sunday morning.

There will be a celebration of Latin Music (salsa. merengue, cymbia, house) in observance of Hispanic All students are invited to the Catalyst Heritage month, at Theodore's tonight, beginning at 9 Environmental conference at the University of Illinois, 

p.m. 
October 5-7. Scheduled speakers include Ralph Nader, Robert Redford, Jesse Jackson, Student Organizations, as 


The Fall Break seminar deadline is today. well as Billy Bragg in concert. If interested, come to this Applications are being accepted for the Appalachia, Sunday's Environmental Action Club meeting at 7 p.m. at Washington, Cultural Diversity and Women, Church and the CSC and bring $10 for registration. Anyone with Society Seminars at the Center for Social Concerns. questions, call Amy 283-1343. 
All Geographic Club presidents are Do you want to be published? The Ju'ggler is asked to stop in the Alumni Association Office, 201 Main looking for submissions of all kinds. Give us your poetry, Building, to report their names and addresses. This fiction and art work. Put it in the Juggler Box in 356 information is needed to answer student's questions O'Shaughnessy by Sept. 28 and then maybe see your name regarding transportation home during breaks. in print in the Fall Juggler! 
This is the last chance to get a yearbook. Senior Formal committee applications can be 1990 Domes can be picked up this week during the picked up at the student activities office in LaFortune or afternoon at 311 LaFortune. Students must have an I.D. the Haggar Center at Saint Mary's and must be returned to get their yearbook. by Wednesday. 
WORLD 
Iraq has asked Iran if the two countries can join ~ U.S. State Department advisory warned their oil pipelines, a move that would allow Saddam tounsts to stay away from the Middle East. From Hussein to partly bypass the international embargo Marrakech to Mikonos and across the Mideast, thousands against his country, U.S. officials said Thursday. Iran has of ~eople who eart;t, their livi~g off tourism are watching not yet responded to the Iraqi request, said the officials. busmess collapse. For Amencans especially, the Middle Intelligence experts estimate a link between the two East is a single place and people don't distinguish pipeline systems could be completed within a month between one Arab country and another," said James across the countries' common border, if they decide to go Ruggia, associate editor of Travel Agent Magazine in New ahead. York. 
INDIANA ALMANAC On September 21st: 
eln 1866: English novelist H.G. 
A challenge to Indiana's school funding Wells was born in Bromley, Kent. formula is scheduled to go to trial Sept. 3, 1991. eln 1897: The New York "Sun" ran Lake Central School Corp. claims Indiana creates its famous "Yes, Virginia, there is a fun~ing inequities so great that they violate the Santa Claus" editorial that answered 
eight-year-old Virginia O'Hanlon's let­
Indiana Constitution. Fifty other schools have 
ter about Santa's existence. 
joined Lake Central in the suit. Newton Circuit 
eln 1937: "The Hobbit," by J.R.R.
Judge George Vann has set aside four weeks to 
Tolkien, was first published. 
hear the case. Gov. Evan Bayh has picked the 
eln 1949: The People's Republic of
Indianapolis firm of Barnes & Thornburgh to 
China was proclaimed by its
defend the state, said Dan Foley, a spokesman 
Communist leaders. 
for the attorney general. 
eTen years ago: Republican pres­idential nominee Ronald Reagan and independent John B. Anderson de­bated in Baltimore without President Carter, who objected to Anderson's in­clusion. 

t 
Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Dietician stresses common sense diet 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
News Writer 
Using common sense to achieve and maintain nutritional well-being was the main thrust behind a lecture given by Karen Seegers, Hegistered Dietician at St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
Seegers said that there is a growing concern, mainly among women, about nutrition and weight loss. However, she said that not enough women are properly educated about weight loss and consequently encounter difficulties when dieting. 
A healthy weight loss program should offer three main components: balanced nutrition, safe exereise, and an extended maintenance program, she said. Any program can be effective, but the program should be safe as well. 
When it comes to weight loss programs Seegers said women must "learn to do it sensibly." They should avoid fad diets and programs that do not cater to the individual. 
Seegers said that diet centers and programs like Nutri­Systems follow a strict regemin that is standardized, and do not take into account one's age, weight, or sex. Self-imposed diets can be equally harmful, said Seegers, because such diets often alter one's metabolism and could lead to further health problems. 
The ideal weight loss program would be a balance of proper foods and "a diet regimen you can live with the rest of your life." 
Seegers said that women's diets often lack two main nutrients, calcium and iron, but a combination of sensible eating and iron supplements should fufill the necessary requirements. 
"A life-long calcium intake" is essential to prevent osteoperosis, a brittling of the bones. Seegers said that students lack sufficient levels of calcium simply because they do not drink enough milk. She recommended drinking four glasses of milk a day. 
Excess amounts of caffeine effect calcium absorbtion, said Seegers, and advised that high caffeine content drinks, such as coffee, should be injested before meals to allow proper calcium absorbtion. 
Seegers said that, unlike most nutrients, iron cannot be obtained through daily eating habits. In order to obtain 
enough  iron,  Seegers  
recommends  an  iron  
supplement.  

Seegers closed by reassuring students that one can keep one's weight under control while maintaining proper nutritional values. She emphasized moderation and sensibility. "You can make wise choices in the cafeteria," she said. 
The lecture took place in the South Dining Hall, and was sponsored by the Year of Women Committee, University Food Services, and University Counseling. 
March of Dimes 
BIRTK.OEFECTS FOUNDATION 
Weekend Liturgical Schedule Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, September 22 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Joseph Ross, CSC 
Sunday, September 23 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Claude Gray, esc 
11:45 a.m. Rev Thomas Gaughan, esc 
-;=:=======================~ 
SECONDARY EDUCATION MEETING MANDATORY 
For All Current And New Students Of The Department Of Education. 
Wed., Sept 26, 6:30-1 O:OOp.m. Science Building Room 105 Saint Mary's 

The Observer/ Dave Short 
Picnic time 
Steve Petrus serves up a burger at the Junior Class picnic held yesterday on North Quad. 
Keating named Jones professor 
Special to the Observer 
Barry Keating, Profeesor of Finance and Business Economics in the University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration, has named Jesse Jones Professor of Business Administration. The appointment, announced today by Dr. John G. Keane, Dean of the College of Business Administration, is for a four­year period, beginning with the current semester. 
''I'm very pleased," said keating in response to the appointment, "and very surprised. The Dean just told me of this yesterday and I'm still in a state of shock. This is a very great honor and I'm obviously pleased to receive it." 
Keating is a 1967 graduate of Notre Dame who went on to earn an advanced degree from Lehigh University in 1968. He returned to Notre Dmae to pursue graduate study in economics, earning a doctorate in 1974. He began his teaching career in the Notre Dame College of Business Administration in 1978. 
"Barry was chosen for this honor," said Dean Keane,"because iof his long and consistently outstanding record of teaching, research, and service. He continues to receive excellent teaching evaluations for undergraduate, MBA, and Executive MBA courses. And he has an enviable record of service at Departmental, College, and University levels." 
"His research specialty in the economics of not-for-profit firms and the impact of governmental regulation has resulted," said Dean Keane, "in a long list of publication." 
Keating's most recent book, Business Forecasting, was published this year by Dow Jones/Irwin. An article, entitled "An Update on Industries Ranked by Average Rates of Return," will appear in the Cambridge publication, Applied Economics , this fall. His work appears in more than a dozen other, top-ranked economics and business finance journals in this country and abroad. 
The Jesse Jone Professorship is a result of an annual gift to the College of Business Administration form the Jesse Jones Foundation, and was previously held by Professor Salvatore Bella of the Department of Management. Bella was promoted to Emeriti status in June of this year. 
Former governor encourages minorities to seek bigger role 
BY JULIE GARDEN News Writer 
Minorities must work for 
greater roles in politics, said Toney Anaya, former governor 
of New Mexico, in a lecture
Thursday entitled "The Chang­ing Face of Politics in the 21st Century." 
"Hispanics need to generate national leaders in order to provirle R. ,/(\;,.~."said Anava. 
himself an Hispanic. "If we could all pitch in and join in a coalition we could make politi­cal changes." 
Speaking about the process of getting minorities involved in politics, Anaya said that Ameri­cans expect quick solutions to problems. However, he added that minorities becoming in­volved in politics will take time and committeemen. 
Anaya focused on the in-

SOUTH BENo•s FRUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-WEEKLV SPECIRLS-
Rnd •.• of course.••THE BEST 
lJJ)l£ ?JJJ5JUIC Uf:!J 1!JlJJIJ 
This Thursday, Friday and Saturday: 
r:I $1.00 OFF CmJE,R · 
-------------..1 
I 0'§J~lJe5 I I 9-23-90
L J 

I• 
~-~·· II ; I~.........
€Ii;~ 
I MlloNcrthoiNot,.."*DI•o~BmmcnoRood
. 
In C.Or::;elown ShopptnJ'c.ru.. • 27'1·1721 
volvement of students in politics and stressed that everyone can make a difference. Anaya said, "Students need to become more active in school politics and office politics and make a 
commitment  to  become  
involved  on the behalf  of  
others."  

"We can make a difference, and we have to make a differ­ence," he said. 
He was the first speaker in a series entitled "Gathering Voices" sponsored by Saint Mary's Office of Minority, In­ternational, and Non-Tradi­tional student life. 

Focus 
on 
America's 
Future 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
"li:' ~!~DEC9.tJ?oJ!!1~ 
THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 

page 4 The Observer 

Parade rest 
The Observer/Dave Short 
ROTC students practice for the POW/MIA ceremony which will be held today on South Quad. All three ROTC batallions-Army, Navy, and Air Force-participate in the ceremony each year 
Friday, September 21, 1990 
ND Post Office announces 1990 holiday cut-off dates 
Special to the Observer 
The Post Office has announced the 1990 Christmas and holiday cut-off dates. 
If the destination is Mrica, air parcels and priority mail should be mailed by November 15, and air letters and cards by December 1. If the destination is Alaska, both by December 10; if Hawaii, both by December 10; if Australia, November 15 and December 1; if the Caribbean, both by December 6. 
If the destination is Europe, both air parcels and air letters should be mailed by December 1; if the Far East, both by December 1; if Greenland, both by December 1; if the Middle East, November 16 and November 26 respectively; if Southeast Asia, November 16 and November 19 respectively; and if Central and South America, December 1 and December 6, respectively. 
International and Military mail should be mailed by the following dates, respectively. To Mrica by Oct. 1 and Oct. 26; to Alaska by Nov. 1; to Hawaii by Oct. 12; to Australia by Oct. 1 and Nov. 1; to the Caribbean by Nov. 2; to Europe by Nov. 2 and Oct. 12; to the Far East by Oct. 1 and Oct. 12; to Greenland by Oct. 12; to the Middle East by Oct. 1 and Oct. 26; to Southeast Asia by Oct. 1 and Nov. 2; and to Central and South America by Oct. 1 and Nov. 2. 
Iraq demands equal U.S. air time Film 
(AP)-Iraq on Thursday demanded equal time, asking 
U.S. networks to broadcast a message by Saddam Hussein in response to President Bush's address to Iraq. Saddam told a newspaper Iraq can fight for 
years  and  "could  hurt"  
America.  
The  White  House  said it  

would not try to block the broadcast of Saddam's videotaped message. The networks did not immediately commit themselves to showing it. 
More than 100 American women and children from Iraq flew aboard a Pan Am jetliner Thursday to North Carolina. The State Department said a similar flight Saturday was the last U.S. charter planned from Baghdad, and it advised all Americans wanting to leave to sign up. 
International efforts mounted Thursday against Iraq's occupation of Kuwait: 
-Organizers of the Asian Games banned Iraq from the competition in Beijing. 
-Discussions continued at the United Nations on a proposal to ban all flights into and out of Iraq and occupied Kuwait, except for mercy missions. 
-French soldiers, including members of the French Foreign Legion, headed to Saudi Arabia to join the U.S.-led multinational force upholding the U.N. trade embargo. They were the first of 4,000 troops expected to ship out of southern France in the sealift, France's largest in three decades. 
NATO's secretary-general, Manfred Woerner, urged other Western European nations to follow suit. "Let me clearly state my personal opinion ­that some allies could and should do more," Woerner said at a conference in Brussels. 
Park 
continued from page 1 
"Additional parking is available for students in the faculty lots after five and on the weekends," Johnson said, "A new lot behind the post office, near the engineering building is now restricted to short term handicapped parking; however, 30 minute or 1 hour parking will be added for students in Alumni Hall." 
Thousands of troops and dozens of warships from other nations have converged on the Persian Gulf since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, but Britain and France are the only Western European nations to send ground troops. 
More than 100,000 U.S. soldiers have been rushed to Saudi Arabia and half as many are aboard warships sent to the region. The Army and the Air Force on Thursday called about 7,000 reservists to active duty. 
The Iraqi leader has an esti­mated 360,000 soldiers in and around oil-rich Kuwait. 
An American soldier was killed and two others injured in a jeep accident Thursday in the Saudi Arabian desert, U.S. military officials said. The death brought to 17 the number of fatalities among American personnel since Operation Desert Shield began in early August. 
All deaths were accidental. They included a soldier hit by a truck, another killed in a road 
Happy 13th McBirthday Ryan!!! 
Me Champ! 
Love, 
Your Cuz Meaghan 
P.S. Take off that Michigan shirt, Rye. N.D. #1 ! 
collision and a sailor electrocuted aboard a ship. On Aug. 29, a C-5A transport aircraft loaded with supplies for gulf forces crashed after takeoff in West Germany, killing 13 crew members. 
Iraq's information minister was quoted as saying Thursday that Iraq will knock out gulf oil fields if attacked by the multinational force. The official, Latif Nassayef Jassim, also said "Iraq will use all weapons at its disposal to respond to any aggression" intended to force its troops out of Kuwait. His comments were reported by the English-language daily Jordan 
Times  and  were  made  to  
Jordanian  journalists  in  
Baghdad this week.  

U.S. officials said Iraq has asked Iran if the two countries can join their oil pipelines, a move that would allow Saddam to partly bypass the international embargo against his country. 
continued from page 1 
help reverse the alarming campus rape statistics." 
Actor Bernsen cited his sup­port for the campaign, com­menting, "Men must take a strong stand against rape.The campaign gives college men an opportunity to become part of the solution, rather than part of the problem." 
"College students are more vulnerable to rape than any 
e It bringsout the bestin all of us.·  
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents Catholic University's National Players performing THETAMINGOFTHESHREW Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm j Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10 pm _) Washington Hall Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 StuJ Sen. Cit.-Wed., Thu., Sun. Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128  


other age group," said Abar­banel. "To compound the prob­lem, studies have shown that more than 90 percent of cam­pus rapes go unreported. Our campaign provides college with effective materials and pro­grams to end rape on campus." 
"Campus Rape" was written by Emmy award winners Allan Burns and Seth Fredman. Com­pact video donated film dupli­cation services. The public ser­vice ads and posters were con­tributed by the prestigious ad­vertising agency Dailey and As­sociates. 
a

Bi~~.~~~~liJ 
E R N I E'S  228 S. Michigan  
Pedorthic Center  South Bend,IN  
M-F 8-5:30, Sat. 8-4  288-5717  

Hey Mollie, share the wealth!! 
Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer 
Saint Mary's offers students information on date rape 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
Pamphlets distributed at Saint Mary's College providH helpful information and advice that can help students get the facts about rape. 
"Date Rape: An Unreported CrimP.," a pamphlet distributed by Saint Mary's Security, warns students of thll danger of ac­quaintance or date rapll. 
"No onH has thH right to force you to do something that you do not want to do," the pamphlet r11ads. 
ThH pamphlet tells students to bPware of men who tend to: 
•act 
excessively jealous and possessive of you; 

•display 
anger and aggres­sion easily; 

•ignore 
your personal space boundaries; 

•ignore 
your wishes; 

•attempt 
to make you feel guilty or accuse you of being uptight; 

•gAt 
hostile when you say "no." 


Another pamphlet, "Hape: Not by Strangers Only," contains a sP.ction "for men only," which tells men that "it's never all right to force yourself on a woman." According to the pamphlet, "real men can take 'no' for an answer." 
"Nothing you do, say or wear gives anyone the right to as­sault you-sexually or other­wise," the pamphlet advises women. However, it also states 

CAMPUS 
RAPE 
that men and women "are both responsible for preventing sex­ual assault and rape." 
"The rape victim frequently finds that she fears people and that she feels vulnerable as she goes about the regular activities of her life," according to a pamphlet distributed by Saint Mary's College. 
Other emotional reactions to rape include: 
•loss 
of control over her own life; 

•fear of the rapist; 

•confusion 
over whether to tell people and which people to tell; 

•concern 
for the rapist if she tells; 

•anxiety, 
shaking, and night­mares; 

•guilt, 
shame, embarrass­ment, stupidity, and anger. 


If a student is assaulted, she should not change clothes, bathe, or douche, so as not to destroy any useful evidence, ac­cording to the pamphlet. She should contact various organi­zations and departments, in­cluding the Saint Mary's Health Center and Campus Ministry. 
A student who is attacked should go to St. Joseph's Hos-

United Methodist Students!! 
JOIN US FOR WORSHIP AND ACTIVITIES! 
First United Methodist Church 
333 N. Main (So. Bend)-across from Burger King 
8:45 AM Celebration Service in Sanctuary (45 min) 
9:30 AM Refreshments in Gathering Room 
9:45 AM "University Fellowship" in Education Wing 
11:00 AM Traditional Service in Sanctuary (1 hour) 

l1rn~@W0§ 
RIBS & TIPS 
SEAFOOD, SANDWICHES, AND BREAKFAST ENTRES 
Dine in or carry out 
Call Leroy or Mitch 
••It's ready when you are!" 838 Portage, South Bend 
289-1118 
pita! Emergency Room for treatment. If the student is not covered by insurance or Medi­caid, an Indiana law provides for coverage for emergency room costs. 
In a pamphlet distributed by Saint Mary's Department of Residence Life and Housing, sexual assault is defined as "any sexual activity which a person is forced or threatened into without his/her consent." 
The pamphlet, titled "Sexual Assault," provides information about several aspects of rape, rape prevention, rape statistics and emotional reactions to rape: 
•60 
to 70 percent of rapes are "at least partially planned beforehand by the rapists." 

•The 
reported age range of victims of sexual assault is six months to 93 years. 

•One-half 
to one-third of sex­ual assaults are committed in the victim's home. 

•49 
percent of rapes are cases in which "the victim and the offender knew each other in some way." 

•In 
14 percent, the rapist is a close personal friend. 

•The 
FBI estimates that only ten percent of all rapes are re­ported. 

•A 
rapist is usually from the same socio-economic back­ground as the victim. 


page 5 

AP Photo
Peace March 
Banner and flag carrying participants in the Peace March, organized by the Soviet public anti-nuclear "Nevada-Semipalatinsk" movement and the American "International Peace Walk" organization, during their march near Karaganda, in the Kazakhstan region of the USSR. 
Superior general of Holy Cross visits NO 
Special to the Observer Grou, who is visiting Holy 
Cross communities in the South 
Bend area, is a native of 
Father Glaude Grou, superior Canada who was ordained in general of the Congregation of 1968. He served as a mission­Holy Cross, will preside over ary and as a university profes­the 10 a.m. Mass Sunday in Sa­sor in Pune, India, until 1982, cred Heart Church on the Uni­when he was elected assistant versity of Notre Dame campus. provincial of the Canadian He will also preside at Solemn Province of Priests. He was Vespers at 7:15 p.m. Sunday in elected superior general in July Sacred Heart. 1986 and now resides at the Holy Cross generalate in Rome. 
Holy Cross priests and broth­ers serve at the University, Holy Cross Junior College, Fatima Retreat House, Ave Maria Press, and ten local parishes. The provincial administrations for both the Indiana Province of Priests and the Midwest Province of Brothers are lo­cated in South Bend. 
Night photography exhibit comes to Snite 
Special to the Observer The 85 photographs, includ­ing images by Stieglitz, Ste­ichen, Brassai, Bourke-White, Winogrand, Brandt and Calla­han, are all part of the Hall­mark Photographic Collection. This exhibition was organized by Keith Davis, curator, Fine 
Here's your opportunity to clean up your actl 
Isn't it time you considered doing away with the low resolution of the Laserwriter? No longer do you have to settle for printing materials in which the type is jagged and difficult to read at small point sizes. Using our Linotronic 200P your fonts and gmphics are accumtely spaced and registered, blacks are solid, whites are clean and tones are crisp. 
What's more all jobs are guaranteed to be completed in twenty-four hours or less or we'll output it for free. And we offer pick-up and delivery to any administrative or academic office on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus. 
Best of all, we offer high quality outputting at extremely reasonable prices. In fact our prices are some of the lowest in the nation. Special discounts are also available for large jobs. 
Our staff is familiar with most major desktop publishing and graphics programs for 
the Macintosh. And we have a large library of Adobe Typefaces. 
Isn't it time you did away with the 300 dpi resolution of the Laserwriter and switched 
to the 1270 dpi resolution of our Linotronic lmagesener? 
For more information call Observer Typesetting at 239-7471. 
ffiffiHE observer typesetting ffiffiHE 
314 LaFortune Student Center 239-7471 
Art Collection, Hallmark Cards Inc. 
According to Davis, artists over the centuries often have been drawn to depicting dra­matic scenes at night. Although photography as medium of artistic expression developed only relatively recently, artists were experimenting with night scenes shortly after the inven­tion of the daguerreotype in 1839. 
At first photography became more frequent and diverse. Twentieth century night pho­tography, reflecting the com­plexity of the modern era, shows a wide range of subjects, social interests and artistic ap­proaches. 
Museum hours are 1 to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday; 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday; and 10 a.m. to 8 
p.m. Thursday (when classes are in session). The museum is closed Monday and all major holidays. Admission is free. 
Good health starts with good nutrition. 


---------~-~------­
page 6 
Concert master to perform on campus 

Squirrel,g~ts a snack . TheObserverDavidShort Maura Kellt, VISiting her older brother and s1ster on campus takes time to feed a squirrel. 
Liberal group asks Senate to reject Souter 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Judiciary Committee. protections. liberal group Americans for Some liberal and conservative Sen. Gordon Humphrey, R­Democratic Action on Thursday groups have found fault with N.H., said he will vote to called on the Senate to reject Souter. However, the Senate confirm Souter despite Supreme Court nominee David committee is expected to reservations about the Souter. recommend his confirmation at nominee's conservative 
ADA president Charles a meeting next week. Full credentials. Rangel, a Democratic Senate approval also appears An outspoken conservative on congressman from New York, certain. the Senate Judiciary said Souter during three days of Many senators who opposed Committee, Humphrey said he testimony had not President Reagan's nomination was particularly appalled by "satisfactorily explained ... his of Robert Bork three years ago Souter's praise of retiring judicial philosophy regarding have said they could support Justice William Brennan, who crucial legal issues which Souter, who also is a was the court's most liberal underpin the life of all conservative. voice. Americans." Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, 
The ADA questioned Souter's said Thursday he was leaning Humphrey and other commitment to civil rights, toward voting to confirm conservatives view President separation of church and state, President bush's nominee. Bush's nominee as their ticket and privacy rights -including Harkin said he was nervous to rolling back the landmark abortion rights -based on his that Souter wasn't more 1973 Roe v. Wade decision record as a New Hampshire specific in supporting abortion legalizing abortion. The high prosecutor and judge and on rights but was partially relieved court is currently split on the his testimony before the Senate that Souter backed privacy issue. 

ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ANNOUNCES SPECIAL LOWER PRICING ON LAPTOPS AND DESKTOPS 

Checlc out these new low prices: 
LAPTOPS 
Mlnlsport HD [6 pound laptop with 20 MB Harddislc) $1569.00 Supersport 286, Model 20 (CGA video, 20 MB Harddlsk) $2192.00 Supersport 286 Model •to (CGA video, 40 MB Harddlsk) 92399.00 Supersport 286 E Model 20 (VGA video, 20 MB Hard disk) $2295.00 Supersport 286 E Model 40 (VGA video, 40 MB Harddlsk) $2503.00 
DESKTOPS 
Z-286 LP/8 Model 20 w/FTM Color Monitor, 20 MB Harddislc. $1518.00 1 MB RAM,Windows 3.0, Mouse, VGA video 
Now Is the time to get the computer you've always wanted. Whether It's word processing. spreadsheets, dBtabases or CAD, ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS has a desktop or laptop to do the Job. 
Price Includes WORDPERFECT 5.1 and 8 one year warranty. 

CONTACT Notre Dame Computer Store 
ZENITH 
Math/Computer Bldg.
data systems 
239-7477 
Groupe Bull 

Special to the Observer 
Ruben Gonzalez, co-concert­master of the Chicago Sym­phony Orchestra, will appear as a guest artist with the Notre Dame Piano Quartet in a per­formance Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art's An­nenberg Auditorium. 
Faculty members William Cerny, piano; Karen Buranskas. cello; Carolyn Plummer, violin; and Victoria Chiang, viola, will join Gonzalez. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Gonzalez was appointed to the position of co-concertmas­ter of the Chicago Symphony in 
Special to the Observer 
SAUD, a four-piece jazz ensemble, will perform in a concert Monday from 8 to 10 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, on the University's campus. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
The band is led by Galen Ab­dur-Razzaq, who is considered one of the world's most innova­tive flutists. 
Abdur-Razzaq graduated from Rutgers University and 
the spring of 1986. He has ap­peared as a soloist may times, including performances under the baton of maestros Georg Solti, Kenneth Jean, and Eric Leinsdorf. 
Gonzalez also serves as con­certmaster of the Aspen Festi­val Orchestra and has been concertmaster of the Houston, Syracuse, North German Radio (Hamburg) symphonies and as­sociate concertmaster of the Minnesota Orchestra. 
His concert program includes Shostakovitch Quintet, Op. 57 and the Brahms Quintet in F minor, Op. 34. 
holds a master's degree in the arts. He was also a former stu­dent of the Berklee College of Music in Boston. 
Abdur-Razzaq had been per­forming, arranging, composing, directing and instructing for more than twenty-five years. He has performed and recorded with pianist Billy Taylor, Houston Person, Melba Moore, Gwen Guthrie and many others. 
The concert is sponsored by Notre Dame's Office of Minority Student Affairs. 
Jazz group to give performance at library 

Horu.~lqtn !t~Jena 
TRAIL RIDES 
Over 500 acres of  ~  219-778-4625  
meadows, ponds,  OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND  
woods.  ,  2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE. IN  

11h Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
ELEDMAJORS MEETING MANDATORY 
FOR ALL CURRENT AND NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
MON., SEPT 24 6:30-10:00 p.m. CARROLL AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S 


Flag bearers 
AP Photo 
Chinese motorcyclists flying side-by-side the flags of Iran, foreground, and Kuwait, right, prepare to enter Beijing's Workers' Stadium Saturday afternoon during a dress rehearsal for the Asian Games opening ceremony. 
I THE VARSITY SHOP 1
..........................-----------------------.. 

The Observer page 7 
Capital gains tax cut debated 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate 
Minority Leader Bob Dole has 
suggested that deadlocked 
budget bargainers remove the 
proposal to cut the capital gains 
tax rate from the deficit­
reduction package they are 
working on, an aide said 
Thursday. 
Dole's suggestion is the first indication that some Republi­cans are willing to accept a deficit-reduction plan without a cut in the capital gains tax rate. President Bush has repeatedly insisted that a reduction in that tax -imposed on property sales -be included in the deficit-cutting plan because it would stimulate the economy. 
An aide to the Kansas Republican denied that Dole was retreating on the capital gains issue. But he said Dole's plan to remove the issue from the deficit-reduction package was the best way to end the current budget talks impasse. 
Democrats have said Re­publican insistence on lowering the capital gains tax rate is the key stumbling block to the two parties working out a five-year, $500 billion deficit-cutting plan. They have opposed the proposal, arguing that it would be a tax break for the rich. They have said they would ac­cept it only if other taxes on the wealthy are boosted. 
A White House spokesman said President Bush has not al­tered his position on what should be included in a budget deal. "There's been no change in the White House position on entitlements, process reform, taxation or growth incentives," spokesman Stephen Hart said. 
Number two House Re­publican Newt Gingrich of Georgia said he opposed the idea of removing capital gains and the other items from the deficit reduction package. 
"House Republicans feel strongly about having one package and one vote," he said. 
Under Dole's idea, the capital gains cut, a Democratic pro­posal to improve federal child care programs. and a package of tax benefits supported by both parties would be broken out of the deficit-cutting pack­age and combined into a sepa­rate piece of legislation. 
That separate measure would have to contain new taxes or spending cuts to pay for itself. 
"It's just a common sense approach," said Walt Riker, Dole's spokesman. 
Riker later stressed that Dole was "in no way retreating on capital gains. We think in the long run this is the best way to go and the best strategy." 
He said Dole's proposal will "enhance the chances for capi­tal gains enactment because it would be included in an overall 
package  of  add-ons  that  
Democrats want as well."  
Dole  suggested  the  idea  

Wednesday evening at a meet-
iI $2 OFF !I 
ing among congressional lead­
ers and top administration of­
ficials. Riker said. 
It was not clear what reaction 
Dole's idea got from the other 
bargainers. 
But on Wednesday, the House 
Budget Committee chairman, 
Rep. Leon Panetta, D-Calif., 
visited the high-level budget 
talks briefly and told reporters 
that a similar tradeoff might be 
the way to end the yearlong 
budget stalemate. 
He said that a package re­
moving GOP-sought tax breaks 
"in return for our new spending 
initiatives may hold the key." 
The proposed capital gains tax reduction would lower the top rate on the profits from property sales from the current 33 percent to 15 percent. It would be expected to raise $3.7 billion next year because the diminished rate would encour­age people to sell their hold­ings. But over the next five years, officials project that it ,would cost the government 
$21.5 billion. 
The biggest tax benefit now 
under consideration at the 
budget talks, supported by 
Bush and most members of 
Congress, would cut business 
taxes by more than $9.2 billion 
over the next five years. It 
would renew credit and deduc­
tion rules aimed at increasing 
investment in research and ex­
perimentation. 
Other expiring tax breaks under consideration include a $1.4 billion credit for part of the wages employers pay newly hired low-income workers and a $1.7 billion exclusion for a limited amount to tuition that employers pay for workers. 
I Any Haircut I : (regularly $8) : 
I I 
I Edison Rd at S.R. 23 277-0057 exp 9/30/90 l.l 
~ --------------------­
MACRI'S DELl IN EAST LANSING Notre Dame-Michigan State Pre Game-Post Game fE
~i& Food and Beverage Specials ~ rf1!1[_ Fri and Sat 11 am to 11 pm _.., Sunday 12pm· 9pm Also order your 3 foot subs for tailgaters by Thursday 
MACRI'S DELl· EAST LANSING TWO MILES EAST OF CAMPUS 
1937 W. GRAND RIVER AVE. AT MARSH ROAD OKEMOS, Ml 
NEXT DOOR TO FRANK'S NURSERY, ACROSS FROM MERIDIAN MALL 


QUALITY PRINTING 325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219]277-3355 OFFICE SUPPLIES 
=.=J 


Set your sights on the top. Go with Arthur Andersen. 
You'll work with a firm that is rapidly evolving with the global marketplace. Be privy to the latest technology as it emerges. And help your clients as they make business decisions that have far reach­ing impact. 
Everything we do at Arthur Andersen assures that you become a trusted business advisor to your clients. You'll experience extensive training Tax, and Corporate Specialty. at our innovative center in Our focus on helping clients St. Charles, Illinois. Immedi-succeed by providing quality ately, you'll begin working with full service will help you succeed. experienced professionals and For a broad roster of oppor­have the benefit of continuous tunities and the challenge of client contact. performing at your best, join 
We believe there is no sub-Arthur Andersen. stitute for real experience. There is no better way That's e_xactly what ARTHUR to accelerate your 
you get m our three career. 
~~~~:'t~:~es:ANDERSEN St h d 
ness Advisory, ARTHUR ANDERSEN &CO., S.C. 
ay a ea • 
For more information contact your placement office. 

Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer page 9 
Class 
continued from page 14 
$ $ $ $ $ NEEDED-I A. F. student ticket. Steve X1603 $ $ $ $ $ 
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 0/o0/oo/o 
NEED MIAMI GAS/STUDS BAD I CALL 2546 OR 3028 PLEASE I 
NEED PURDUE TIXI CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN 
NEED PURDUE ST. TIX #2287 
MIAMI, MIAMI, MIAMI NEED 1 STUD TIX X2481 PAUL 
##################### 
NEED MANY PENN ST. STUD TIX PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 
##################### 
NEED 1 PURDUE STUD. JOHN X3636 N.D ALUM HAS 2 PURDUE GA TIX. WILL TRADE FOR 2 STANFORD OR PENN STAT TIX. CALL JOHN 201-764-6313. 
HELP ME RELAX-SELL ME 5 VARIOUS STANFORD GA'SI$1$1 CALL JOANIE X2800 ASAP III 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL ALLISON 2732. 
Needed: 2 Air F. Stud.; 4 Air F. GA; 7 Penn St. Stud. Willlrade Purdue Stud. or pay. Colleen 272-5939 
2 Airforce GAs needed; 1 Miami stud for sale x284-4109 
I NEED 2 PURDUE STUDENT TICKETS Ill Call Joe 1307 Ill 
Wanted 4 GA Tix 
NDvs. MIAMI 1-800-243-4153 Ext. 2387 -Mickey 
NEED PURDUE GA'S 
AND PENN ST. STUDS 
CALL KEVIN @2235 
I need Penn St stud tix Melinda x4852 
For sale or trade: MICHIGAN ST. GAs. Call 259-0539. All offers negotiable. 
WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S FOR SIX BEITER MIAMI GA'S PLUS$$$ ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S FOR$$$ CALL GREG 288-9075 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY $$$$$$.CALL JOHN X1177. 
WANTED Stanford and Miami tix 277-7684 
I NEED 4 PENN STATE GA'S REALLY BAD. I'LL DO ALMOST ANYTHING TO GET THEM, EVEN PAY CASH. LOTS OF IT. SO CALL FLO AT x1696. 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's call GREG at 1416 
Will trade 2 AirForce GA's for 2 Stanford GA's. Dan x1666 
I need MIAMI TIX -Chris 234-8891 

• 
Wide selection of Mexican and American food and beverages. 

• 
10°/o discount on food purchases with ND/SMC and Holy Cross student, faculty and staff 10.* 

• 
Conveniently located in Indian Ridge Plaza near Phar Mor and TJ Maxx. . . : ..·. 


Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sal 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 
. •offer good thru September . only at the Grape Rd. location.: . . . . . . . . . . · · · 
: Grape Road at'lndian .Ridge Pl~za ~ Mishawaka·.· 277-'13fe' 
GET TOP 
FOR YOUR 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKET 1-800-733-8499 
ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL 
NEED 2-3 STANFORD GA'S. $$$JIM 271-1703. 
HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAs FOR MY PARENTS, WHO WILL PAY $. 273-0318 
NEED PURDUE TICKETS CALL JOHN 258-0809 
'''I NEED TICKETS I''' I would be forever in your debt for 3 Air Force student tickets!! Call John at x1802 
HAVE 1 MiAMI GA.DESPERATELY SEEKING (2) STANFORD GAs. WILLING TO DEAL. MIKE X3526 
HAVE PURDUE STUD TIX FOR SALE 237-9533 JON 
HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 
PERSONALS 
NUDE PARTY TWO "Freeballing" where flesh meets flesh ... and an umbrella. John, Alex, Charlie, Mark, Jill, and Carolyn 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LARISSA GODISHIIII 
...Hope you survived your first night as a LEGAL bar queen. As your roommates, we are holding you responsible for the 3 Ps associated with this great occasion...(we'll explain later.) 
Have a super day! Love, TheAmys 
HEY YO, WE'RE TALKING TO YOU III WE KNOW YOU WANT TO GO HOME A DAY EARLY AND SEE YOUR HTH (OR MOMMY AND DADDY) AT FALL BREAK. SO SELL US YOUR FREAKIN' MIAMI TICKETS! II WE'LL PAY BIG BUCKS!II CALL MIKE OR CHRIS AT X 1779. 
HEY KRISTI QUINNIIII HAVE THE HAPPIEST BIRTHDAY EVER! LOVE, YOUR ROOMIES 
MIAMI GA FOR SALE FACE VALUE 
Get your attention? I don't have a Miami ticket, but I do need a ride to Chicago on Sat. 9/22. Can leave after 12 noon/share gas. 
Christine 283-4011 
Yo Espoll Did you know? It's one year. Luv ya dear 
JUSTIN FORTIER WILL HAVE A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAYIII Yes, Justin, it's time to put away that early Simon CD, take out the G'n R, and crack open a few COLD ones. You will have fun this weekend, we guarantee that. -Paul, Joe, Mike, Bert and "The Kodiak Kid." 
P.S. Is it all right if we call you "G­STRING" in this ad? 
Anna Cruz, So when do I get my chance?-Waiting For Now 
....................... 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx LATIN MUSIC! TONIGHT AT THEODORE'S. DANCE TO SALSA, MERENGUE, CUMBIA, 
HOUSE, ETC.. THE FUN BEGINS 
AT9:00 P.M.. 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx hiag 
LATIN MUSIC I TONIGHT AT 
THEODORE'S. DANCE TO 
SALSA, MERENGUE, CUMBIA, 
HOUSE, ETC.. THE PARTY 
BEGINS AT 9:00 P.M.. 
see CLASS I page 18 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
A FREE Seminar for SENIOR YEAR NursingStudents

9 
Transition is a one-day program designed to help you make the transition from student toI professional. 
Saturday, October 27, 1990 
This no-cost seminar includes sessions, lunch and breaks. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants at the Kahler Hotel. 
Sessions include: 
• 
Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 

• 
Coping Measures for the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Financial planning for the Young Professional 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
Discharge Planning for Senior Adults: Special Needs for Special People 

• 
Overview of Organ Transplantation 

• 
Preparing for the Job Search 

• 
Technological Advances in Outpatient Surgery 


Deadline lor registration is Q( t. 17, 1990 
Call collect 507-286-7030 
for registration information and 
brochure . 
Transition is sponsored by 
Mayo Medical Center 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
An Ar(irm,JIIH' Acrion/Equ"l Opportw1111· tmplol'!'r 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
HOW COULD YOU MISS THE BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs USC -CALL 239-7308 
HOB KNOB IN BEVERLY HILLS & HOLLYWOOD! CALL 239-7308. 
CROSS THE BORDER -TO TIJUANA, MEXICO! CALL 239­7308. 
BACKGAMMON PARTNER NEEDED 233-3059 JERRY 
Dear Bru nene---1 thought the Grape Road Hacienda was our special spot. I guess my friends were right about you. We'll be al the Hacienda on Friday to check this guy out. -Sid and Company 
LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE VS NO GAME AT JAMISON INN. CALL 277-9682 FOR RESERVATIONS. 
The COFFEEHOUSE this Friday! Come hear the magnificent acoustic sounds of 
Chris O'Connell and Dave Schindler Rachel Cruz and Judy 
Hutchinson 
and Heather Finley Friday, at 9:00 in the Basement of Grace. Be There! 
.. 
COFFEEHOUSE" 
Looking for a safe, effective & morally acceptable means of planning a family? Classes start Sept. 27, 6:30P.M. For more info: 237-7401 
-THE BALANCE­
FOR THE BEST IN ' ORIGINAL, PROGRESSIVE ' 
* 
MUSIC 

AT CLUB 23 ON 

* 
SATURDAY, SEPT 22 • 



~---~----­
Viewpoint 
page 10 
---Ih---e-~0---bse--~~er---.1.-=Y~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Women should be included in the victory march 
phrasing fits perfectly into the tradition 18 years ago when it the team, but the team repre­not a minor, insignificant point. By Heidi Hansen melody of the song, and it does admitted women to the student sents the University. And 37% Women know that they are not not change the essential mean­body. That action should be of the student body at this uni­yet wholly and completely ac­
This year , the Year of ing. What it does include in the applauded. It should also be of­versity is women. When Notre cepted members of the Notre Women, is, I think, a particu­Victory March is a significant ficially acknowledged by Dame fans cheer for the Irish, Dame family . larly appropriate time to con­portion of the Notre Dame stu­changing Notre Dame's trade­they are cheering for more than If women truly are to be a sider a change which should dent body which has thus far mark, its fight song. men wearing pads and helmets. significant portion of the have been considered many been excluded. I, therefore, Second, it can be argued that Finally, it will probably be student body, then why not years ago. This change con­propose that the words to the the Victory March is directed argued that all of this is a mi­openly acknowledge the fact by cerns the words to the "Notre song be officially changed. toward and representative of nor point and awaste of time. including them in the Victory Dame Victory March." I realize that this proposal the football team, which obvi­After all, everyone knows that March? If the University truly is 
At one point the songs states, can and probably will be con­ously consists of sons and not women are part of the dedicated to embracing " ... old Notre Dame will win tested on three main points. daughters. This, however, University , and no one pays women at Notre Dame, then over all, while her loyal sons go First, it will be argued that to would be an incomplete analy­that much attention to the ac­why not let the Year of Women marching onward to victory." If change the Victory March is to sis. The Notre Dame football tual words of the song; its more leave a lasting impression on one were to listen carefully tamper with a proud, long­team consists of more than just the idea of the song that the Notre Dame tradition? 1972 during a football game, one standing, and fundamental players. No college team could matters. So isn't changing the was the year women were would hear a few voices singing Notre Dame tradition. I agree. I be number one without its song more trouble than it's officially admitted into the an alternate version, which also agree that changing tra­support staff of managers, worth? Notre Dame family. Why not let says, " ... old Notre Dame will dition is never easy. trainers, and administrative The answer, simply, is women 1990 be the year that we pro­win over all, while her loyal Nevertheless, it must be done. personnel, many of whom are pay attention to the words and claim that acceptance in song? sons and daughters march on Notre Dame, as an institution women. Furthermore, the to the consequences of those Heidi Hansan is a senior in to victory." This alternate and as a family, tampered with Victory March may represent words. Women know that it is the College ofArts and Letters 
LETTERS 
Participants in panty raid view its tradition as light-hearted fun 
Dear Editor: 
I have just finished reading the letter written concerning the Freshman Panty Raid, and I have made up my mind to re­spond to it. 
First, I would like to inform everyone that the Panty Raid is not the first impression Notre Dame males receive of Saint Mary's women. This event usually does not take place until about two or three weeks after classes have started. During those weeks there are different events where Freshmen receive their first impression of each other. 
One such event is camping out for football tickets. What an impression you make there. You wake up the next morning at about 6:00 a.m.-after celebrating, until 5 a.m., the fact that no one was going to 
PeTeR, I'M 5Q'.1e/AJH/3R/3 IN 7H~ MIOEAST, lAU<JNG 70 ARMYOJP­
TAIN W !AlWT<. CAPTAIN, I(JHJ(T!£550NS fflJM 7H~ 
6RtNA/JA AND PANAMA 
INVASIONS HAV~ YOU 
TO 
get good seats-covered with dew and looking like you've been through a war. But, you had fun and met a lot of people. 
The Panty Raid is also a good opportunity to meet new and interesting people. It is often the first time many of the guys have set foot on Saint Mary's campus, and what better rea­son than to catch a pair of panties? 
I am a Sophomore and, yes, I participated in the Panty Raid my Freshman Year {GASP!). Because of that, plus the fact that an adventuresome male caught my panties, I now have some of the greatest and closest friends from Notre Dame. Every time someone asks how we met, we all laugh and tell them. It's a great story. 
People need to relax and realize that the Panty Raid is just in fun. The messages caught dead wearing some of it. "You've Lost that Loving written on the panties are not As far as the relationship Feeling" or "Earth Angel" for serious, the names given are between Notre Dame and Saint some underwear is quite usually made up {I hope no one Mary's goes, I think everyone humorous. would actually name their child needs to lighten up and look at Fluffy, Muffy or Buffy), and the everything with a sense of Sheri Goessling underwear is definitely a joke. humor. When you think about Regina Hall Many people wouldn't be it, having about 20 guys singing Sept. 18, 1990 

"We can't all be heroes because somebody has to sit on the curb and clap as they go by." 
Will Rogers 
UM... I5&t. 
ANY OTHeR. U3S50NS? 
I 
...--------------------~-----------------------------------~ 
-----i 
--------------------------------------------------------1
Friday, September 21, 1990 page 11 1
Viewpoint 
~~~~~~--~~--------~~-=---------=----~~--~~---=~------------------~~--------------------~­
Political candidates' private lives are relevant 
on the ever-increasing degree behave compassionately in serve as president of the United proved himself unable to exer­
of scrutiny under which candi­public, buttressed by the States. Quite possibly, what cise self-control when aware
~ark Bettencourt dates are placed, Ms. Ferraro watchful eyes of the press and transpired off of the Florida that anything less than self­
relayed a troubling interpreta­the electorate, dissipates be­Keys would not discernibly af­control had potentially devas­
This past Wednesday, tion of what constitutes the hind closed doors. Behind fect Gary Hart's ability to ar­tating ramifications. If Gary Geraldine Ferraro offered to moral and ethical values of a these doors, the true character ticulate vital U.S. interests at a Hart could not protect his fam­the Notre Dame community her candidate. She asserted that of the candidate emerges. superpower summit. The dis­ily in such a scenario, then how insights developed throughout a any moral or ethical judgement I, in no way, aspire to cretion exercised by Gary much protection could the distinguished tenure in of a candidate must differenti­augment the already overbear­Hart-or the lack American people expect? congress and a history-making ate between standards applied ing role of the media in political thereof-would, however, When the press and vice-presidential nomination. in one's personal life and in campaigns. On this point, I be­inevitably impact the diplomatic the voting public demand Ms. Ferraro candidly depicted one's political or public life. I lieve Ms. Ferraro and I concur. proceedings of the Hart super-human conduct from the obstacles confronting wholeheartedly disagree with Rather, I contend that the administration. Gary Hart cared elected officials, we impose women in politics, as well as Ms. Ferraro. choices an individual makes little about The Miami Herald unreasonable standards on our the issues catapulting women to Ms. Ferraro concluded about his or her personal life reporter he challenged to representatives. We must, the political forefront. Her that the best measure of a can­underscore the priorities and investigate his personal life. He however, require public officials message touched upon a didate's moral fiber is how that principles cherished by that in­demonstrated to the American to respect the trust endowed plethora of salient issues, candidate treats the poor and dividual. I do not excuse or people, however, that he did not upon our government. How a ranging from the effects of the helpless-not how that candi­condone the behavior of Gary possess the tact and caution candidate conducts his or her 1984 national campaign upon date conducts his or her per­Hart or, for that matter, The required of the president of the personal affairs reveals, above her family to the prominent role sonal life. I agree that any Miami Herald. Furthermore, I United States. all else, how much that of abortion in recent state aspirant to elected office should refuse to dismiss what Gary Moreover, Gary Hart candidate will revere the public elections. I applaud Ms. Ferraro display an acute sensitivity to Hart did as merely "stupid," as afforded little regard to his trust. Although violating the for her accomplishments and the plight of those who cannot Ms. Ferraro appears to do marital union of the damaging basic privacy of a candidate is her address, which, with one help themselves. Nonetheless, willingly. effects his actions may inflict wrong, dismissing the personal noticeable exception, imparted the manner and fashion in Ms. Ferraro claimed upon his family. Admittedly, life of a candidate may com­encouragement to both women which a candidate conducts that the actions of Gary Hart Gary Hart was not the first man promise the foundation of our and men concerned with our himself or herself in private would not have impaired his to cheat on his wife and will not republic-the consent of the political system. exposes that individual's ability to negotiate with the be the last. This realistic people. I do not believe Ms. 
In response to the final convictions about the value of Soviets of balance the budget observation provides neither an Ferraro wants that. question of the lecture, which trust and commitment among and thus would have had no excuse nor a justification for Mark Bettencourt is a senior solicited Ms. Ferraro's opinion other things. The incentive to bearing on his competency to those actions. Gary Hart government major . 
LETTERS 

Women speakers merit more respect 
Dear Editor: many times in the past that 
Along with many other Arts question had been asked by and Letters seniors, I attended women. Maybe I should have last night's Placement Night in asked him. the Library Auditorium, and If you were one of the many like a large percentage of those people who was tremendously in attendance, I too was very upset by last night's presenta­disappointed and angry when I tion, then I seriously think you left. I, however, was not un­need to ask yourself a few happy with the presentations or questions. Why do you find if so the speakers. Rather, I was difficult to accept that a female highly disappointed in the be­is more qualified, is better at havior of a large portion of the some sports or subjects, or can audience. As I looked around complete a task more efficiently during the presentations, I was than you? Why is it so uncom­disgusted by the fact that many fortable or disheartening to of the students, especially the hear about female executives males, were yawning, slumping and vice presidents? Why does 
*THE PRECEDING ANNOUNCEMENT lXlES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VJEWS OF 
down in the chairs, fidgeting, this article make you angry? 
PRo-CHOICE ~UC POUTICIANS OR THE.IR. N\ANA..GE.MENT 
not paying attention, tuning out the speaker due to lack of in­Perhaps the answer lies in yet terest, or, worst of all, walking another objective of the Year of out. Women-to promote an aware­
ness of the abilities and contri­Dear Editor: children did not feel they were men and women. One of the many aspects of butions of females. Maybe it is 
In an article summarizing the right thing. And I have omething quite different from the Year of Women is to gain a disheartening to you because comments by Dean Eileen remained in a couple of what she had said on a similar perspective on what it means to our society is finally accepting Kolman on the Year of Women competitions because my wife topic involving male-female be a female in our society. I that women are as competentat Notre Dame (The Observer, and children encouraged that. power relationships. She had to think a great majority of the as men in virtually all fields. 
Sept. 17), the following We love and respect each other waste a lot of valuable time set­males in attendance last night Now that women's abilities are paragraph appears: "Kolman too much to go on our merry ting the record straight and 
received a first-hand glimpse of being taken more seriously,explained that an separate directions on career restoring the confidence of what it might be like. All three women become serious, legiti­
undergraduate woman will matters. I am not alone among colleagues. 
speakers were female, and all mate competition. This realityneed to make future choices in my male friends in the addressed their careers from a diminishes all of our chances of 
order to balance marriage, a academic world. The desired changes in power female perspective. This does succeeding in the job market. 
career and family. A male does structure, gender relationships, not mean, however, that they Maybe that scares you. Maybe not have to worry about a Nor are we alone in church and learning culture at Notre did not have valuable insights it should. 
family infringing upon his life, communities. Many are the lay Dame require care and and pertinent information for according to Kolman." persons in parish voluntary patience. An inflammatory both men and women. Their If you were one of those not leadership circles whom we "quotation" or summary makes topics were a concern for all of paying attention, being rude, or 
I doubt that a person of Dean interviewed during the Notre it altogether too easy for men us. Yet many men in the audi­that left last night, then youKolman's sophistication would Dame Study of Catholic Parish and women to hurl the epithet 
ence were incensed that there may have missed some have said "A male does not Life who turned down career -"sexist."A simple rule for were no male speakers and that excellent advice. One of Ms. 
have to worry about a family advancement so that their journalists is: get it right; get it the women addressed some Blackett's main points (despite 
infringing upon his life ... " or (wife/husband) could stay at the in writing. her disappointing concluding
concerns that are more perti­anything close to it. present job and all of the family David C. Leege, Director 
nent to or affect more directly quote that I found to be both To claim that men make could participate in the parish Hesburgh Program in Public women. I suppose they felt their inconsistent and discouraging), 
career decisions unaffected by community. Career decisions Service rude behavior was justified be­and a common theme Sept. 18, 1990
family concerns is inaccurate, are complex matters for both cause they were upset, or felt throughout all three 
thoughtless, and demeaning to excluded. presentations, was that the both partners in a family Key jingling tradition no longer American work force is chang­
relationship, as well as to their As I left the presentation I ing. We must be aware of these children. overheard one irate classmate changes, and we have to under­
applicable, insults Coach Holtz 
demand to know "how the stand that attitudes in the work The only career decision I University could give a presen­place have progressed. So if you 
Dear Editor: has a coach who knows quite a
have ever made that did not tation and address less than missed the message, be aware: 
involve my wife or children was Attention, those of you foot­bit about the game of football, fifty percent of the audience?" your potential boss will be
ball fans who jingle your keys therefore it is an insult to
to accept an appointment at the Think of the countless presen­aware of these changes and
on third-down situations: knock 
Coach Holtz to continue this
college where I met my tations in the past, given by new attitudes, and if you are
it off! This tradition started
eventual wife. We have turned practice. men, about jobs that are held not, if you remain ignorant,
during the Gerry Faust days
down executive directorships or primarily by men, where the SHE may fire you. 
because some peQple believed
withdrawn from top leadership primary employee was referred
that ol' Gerry needed to be C.P. Neises '82
positions in the academy and to only as "he." Now ask your­Brian Boswell 
alerted to critical (or "key") Mishawaka, IN
business firms because, after self that same question. I had to Off-campus
plays. Notre Dame currently Sept. 17, 1990
lengthy discussion, my wife or laugh inside wondering how Sept. 19, 1990 
~----­


SEPTEMBER 21-23 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC Acoustic Night, The Coffeehouse, basement of Grace Hall,9p.m. Zlbby Tebo, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45p.m. Web of Lies, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS ISO Picnic, Holy Cross Field, 4 -7:30 p.m. 
THEATER The Taming of the Shrew, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. Tickets $7. 
saturday 
MUSIC Duke Tomatoe & the Power Trio, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45 p.m. The Balance, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
Web of Lies, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra,featuring pianist Ruth Laredo, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $6 • $25. 
EVENTS South of the Border Picnic, Stepan Field, 4 • 6:30 p.m. 
THEATER The Taming of the Shrew, Washington Hall, 8:1 0 p.m. Tickets $7. 
sunday 
MUSIC 
Notre Dame Plano Quartet, with guest artist Ruben 
Gonzalez, Annenburg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
THEATER 

The Taming of the Shrew, Washington Hall, 3:10 p.m. Tickets $5 for students and senior citizens. 
films 
FRIDAY "Steel Magnolias," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10 p.m. "Roger & Me," Annenburg Auditorium, 6:30,8:15 & 10 p.m.· 
SATURDAY "The Meaning of Life," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10 p.m. 
Everything you wanted to know about MSU, especially directions 
ELIZABETH VIDA accent writer 
N 
owthatthe Fightin' Irish have conquered the Wolverines of 
Michigan, it's 
time to face another nemesis 
from that northern state: the 
Michigan State Spartans. 
Roadtrippers are preparing to 
embark on yet another 
weekend that will fill the 
personals with top ten quotes. 
Michigan State University is 
just south of East Lansing, MI. 
approximately a two and a half 
to three hour drive from South 
Bend. Roadtrippers should 
probably get on Highway 31/33 
going north, then exit onto 
highway 51 going east. Then 
take Interstate 96 north until 
you get to Interstate 69, which 
will take you north east, and 
then you will fmally exit onto 
Interstate 127, which will take 
you all the way up to East 
Lansing, where there will be 
signs leading you straight to 
campus, where you'll 
eventually end up on 
Trowbridge Rd. 
More than 40,000 students 
attend MSU, making it the 
largest university in Michigan, and the nation's fourth largest single-campus university, with only University of Minnesota, Ohio State University, and the University of Texas-Austin ahead of it in size. Seventeen of those forty thousand students live in on-campus residence halls, and an additional 2,284 furnished apartments are pro­vided by MSU for its students. It's the largest on-campus resi­dence hall system in the U.S. The campus is spread out over 5,000 acres of grass, trees, and flowering plants, and the tall residence halls stand in tiny clusters. 
Michigan State University, which was founded in 1855 and originally concentrated on farm science, now includes more than 200 programs of under­graduate and graduate studies, all divided into 14 degree­granting colleges. It's the only university in the nation with three medical colleges: A Col­lege of Human Medicine, which trains allopathic physicians, a College of Osteopathic Medicine and an College of Veterinary Medicine. 
Game time on Saturday is 3pm. at Spartan Stadium, which is located in the north­west quadrant of campus. 
Parking lot tailgaters will be just north of the stadium. Re­member that the drinking age in Michigan is 21. The only change from South Bend is that in a few bars/nightclubs in town, you can enter the bar if you're 19, and you get a spe­cial stamp on your hand. According to a source from the Central East Lansing Business Association, quite a few of the bars used to allow 19 and up, but lately there has been a crackdown on underage drink­ing, so they've raised even the entering age to 21. Dooley's is a popular spot for students at MSU and they still allow 19 and up in. 
The Greek system at MSU is 
strong and will be in full force 
this weekend. Sorority rush 
coincides with the game week­
end, ending at 2:15 on Satur­
day. There are 17 sororities and 
31 fraternities, all national. 
About 11% of the student body 
is Greek. 
In the words of J.J. Wentz, board member of the Panhel­lenic Organization at MSU, "It's going to be crazy around here this weekend." Let's hope so. Have a blast, roadtrippers, and Go Irish! 
A guide to Lansing's exciting 
ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editor 
A 
fter several hours of serious roadtripping and a few more hours in the football stadium, most fans are going to be hungry-and thirsty-after the Notre Dame­Michigan State game. Just north of Michigan State 
University is the city of East 
Lansing. Lansing, Michigan's 
state capital, is northwest of the 
university. Since MSU is located 
in close proximity to these 
cities, there are more than 
enough restaurants and bars to 
choose from. 
The MSU campus and East 
Lansing are separated by 
Grand River Avenue, which 
runs East-West. This is where 
all of the fast food chains are 
located and there are several 
non-fast food eating 
establishments along this 
avenue and in the near vicinity. 
Here are a few of the 
restaurants to keep an eye out 
for in East Lansing: 
America's Cup, 220 M.A.C. 
Ave., University Mall. 
Restaurant and bar with a nau­tical atmosphere. B'zar night­club is on the lower floor. 
. Castellani's Market, 551 E. Grand River Ave. Italian deli, sandwiches, groceries, beer and wine take out. A great place to stock up before tailgating. 
Crunchy's, 254 W. Grand River Ave. Bar and restaurant. 
Jersey Giant Submarines, 220 M.A.C., University Mall. The name says it all. Subs made fresh as you like them. 
The Peanut Barrel, 521 E. Grand River Ave. Restaurant & full service bar, sandwiches, burgers and beer. A popular student hangout. 
P.T. O'Malleys 210 Abbott, Full-service restaurant, ham­burgers, hot dogs and drinks. 
Rocky's 213 E. Grand River Ave. Southwestern food and burgers. 
Sidestreets Deli, 605 E. Grand River Ave., Stonehouse Mall. A delicatessen just like one you would find in New York, except it's in Michigan. 
For those fans who are in the mood for pizza, there are sev­eral restaurants in East Lansing 
which specialize: Bell's Pizza House, 225 
M.A.C. Greek pizza, grinders, salads and spaghetti. 
Bilbo's Pizza in the Pan, 213 Ann St. The name is self-ex­planatory. 
Goodtimes Pizza, 615 E. Grand River Ave. Dine in and delivery pizza. 
And of course, to wash down all of that good food, here are the names of a few of the bars in East Lansing: 
B'zar, 220 M.A.C. Ave., Uni­versity Mall. Contemporary, high energy nightclub. B'zar is below the America's Cup restaurant; it was closed for renovation during the Summer so it may not be open yet. 
Dooley's, 131 Albert St. lim­
ited menu restaurant and pub. 
"Sensations" nightclub on the 
lower level. Highly 
recommended for visiting 
students. You only have to be 
19 to enter, but 21 to drink. 
Rick's American Cafe, 224 
Abbott Rd. Rock & roll music, 
bar and dining. 
The Riviera Cafe, 231 M.A.C. Fun World Headquarters, mu­sic, food and bar. 
Zek1 
Holid~ 300~ 
ner a11 HarJ 
Michl~ hotsp~ 
good f anothj 
Che 5900 I drinks 
~EJ
large~
in the places thougl pariet: 
Fred 
Eate~
Sagim Inn!L One oJ spots, on Fri 
Hou 
(in thf 
plays 
while 
closin1 
Mo 
---~-------~·----~------------. 
e 13 
~ 
. 

Great places in Lansing drinking holes to rest your weary bones 
ROBYN SIMMONS Take 1-96 Cedar St. Exit 104. swimming pool and 104 rooms. Deli & Sports Bar, Michigan Ave., This authentic assistant accent editor Hotel has outdoor swimming For reservations call {517) 321­~y Inn, University Place, Irish pub specializes in drinks, pool and game room. Pipers 1444 or 1-800-722-7220. 
1.A.C. Good for lunch, din­darts, and oldies. Restaurant serves breakfast, Motel6, 112 E. Main St., 
o you made it to 
d drinks. lunch, cocktails and dinner. 153 Lansing. Outdoor swimming 
Michigan State 
Roxy's Nite Club, 7711 W.
son Roadhouse, 729 rooms. For reservations call pool and 118 rooms. For reser­
Saginaw Hwy. {inside the Mid­University in one 
an Ave. A post-game {517) 393-1650 or 1-800-HOL­vations call {517) 484-8722. 
way Motor Lodge) Requests are piece. You found the 
t, the roadhouse offers IDAY. Red Rooflnn-East, 3615
s
campus and the 
welcome at this video night club 
1od and music. This is Dunckel Dr., Lansing. Take 1­
football stadium and only one
which features Top 40 music 
.r rncommended bar. question remains: where are Howard Johnson's, 6741 S. 496 Jolly Road Exit. 80 guest 
from the past four decades.
sea's Restaurant & Pub, 
Scandal's, 925 S. Creyts you going to spend the night? Cedar, Lansing. Take Holt/Cedar rooms. For reservations call ark Lake Rd. Food, Obviously, your best bet is to exit from 1-96, South on Cedar. {517) 332-2575 or 1-800-THE­
(inside the Sheraton Lansing 
land nntertainment. ROOF.
stay with a friend from high This recently renovated hotel Hotel.) Daily drink specials and 
~hosn pnople who want to school who happens to go to has 100 rooms and an outdoor Red Rooflnn-West, 7412 W.
dancing to the tune of Top 40 
·n bnyond East Lansing, Saginaw Hwy., Lansing. Take 1­
MSU. If you don't know anyone pool. For reservations call {517) videos..
·.s. 496 West to Lansing, 96 to Saginaw East Exit. Foron campus, there are several 694-0454 or 1-800-654-2000.
Tango's Restaurant, 111 W.
~an where some of the reservations {517) 321-7246 or
hotels near campus that will be Best Western-Midway Motor Washtenaw, Disk Jockey and 
'nightdubs can be found 1-800-THE-ROOF.
more than happy to Lodge, 7711 W. Saginaw Hwy,dancing to a variety of music, local hotels. Most of these (Classic Rock, Top 40, Rhythm accommodate paying Lansing. Take 1-96 at Saginaw
dosn at 2 a.m. (and you customers. Exit 93B. Home of Roxy's Nite Super 8 Motel, 910 American 
& Blues and Jazz) t Notre Dame only had Here are few of the more rea­Club, Hoffman House restau­Rd., Lansing. Take 1-96 CedarTrippers, 350 Frandor,lsi: sonably-priced hotels in the rant serves breakfast, lunch, St. Exit 104. Close to Bob's American Gothic Lansing's premiere sports bar. 
& Pub, 7501 W. Shoot some hoops while playing East Lansing/Lansing area. Be cocktails and dinner. Hotel of­Evan's, Wendy's and Kentucky 
Fried Chicken. 42 rooms. For ... 
w (in the Holiday half court basketball, play pool sure to call ahead to make fers indoor swimming pool, 
reservations and check the sauna, whirlpool and game reservations call {517) 393­1sing Confnrence Center.) and shoot darts, in addition to prices. room. 149 rooms. For reserva­8008 or 1-800-843-1991.
Lansing's newest night enjoying the food and drinks. 
Holiday Inn-University Place, tions call {517) 627-8471. Obviously, the closer the hotel •red's offers live bands There are plenty of places in 300 MAC. Ave., East Lansing. Knight's Inn-South, 1100 is to the campus, the harder itays and Saturdays. the East Lansing/Lansing area 
han's, 5652 W. Saginaw to keep roadtrippers occupied Across from MSU and home of Ramada Dr. Lansing. Take 1-96 will be to find rooms, but with 
the Chesapeake Crab House Cedar St. Exit 104. Outdoor the large number of hotels to Lansing Mall.) A live D.J. before and after the game, and choose from, NO roadtrippers -­and Zeke's Deli Sports Bar. 181 swimming pool, 104 rooms. For'op 40 and Rock music this is probably the last chance rooms. For reservations call reservations call {517) 394-should not have too much of a he customers dance until NO fans will have to enjoy an­(517) 337-4440. 7200. problem finding a place to resttime. other campus while the weather Holiday Inn-Lansing South, Knight's Inn-West, 7326 W. after a long day of football arty's Pub Inc., 802 E. is still mild. 
6501 Pennsylvania, Lansing. Saginaw, Lansing. Outdoor festivities. 
~------~-------------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 14 The Observer Friday, September 21, 1990 
Need 2 PENN ST. GA's $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$ A Certain $$$MILLIONAIRE$$$ big$$$$$ I HAVE $$$ AND STANFORD 
Need Student nx tor Stanford I NEED TENNESSEE TICKETS 
tor dad & little bro FOR STANFORD, CALL Needs 2 AF GA's and 4-8 STAN or
Class COLLECT (416) 851-0817, AFTER PURDUE GA's CALL Pat x1900 
Mason X2787 -will sing & dance-STUD TICKET. CALL ROBERT 
continued from page 16 
I NEED TIXIII 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? 
ME TOO 4 STUDENT TICKETS tor Miami tans that need humbling. 272-8954 Amy 
BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1­800-875-4525. 
NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752­5314. 
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. 
NEED: 2 PURDUE GA'S AND 1 AIR FORCE STUDENT. 
PLEASE CALL TRISH x3860 
4 MIAMI GA's are what I need. So give them to me, please. Pete x1745 
I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. CALLBILLY -x1817. 
$$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ $$$$ #2894 $$$$ 
NEED PENN ST STUD TIX X1581 -TOM 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL ALEX X1068 
need 1 stud. tick. to Miami! have other tick. & $,call tor deal.234-5840 John 
BUYING MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS -Need 4 Call Frank at 233-7357 
New York Attorney needs Stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$ Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or Nancy at 277-2942. 
PLEASE help me convince my father that all the tuition he has shelled out over the past tor years has been worth itll I need 
3 STANFORD G.A.'SI Christine X4012 
I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE!! CALL KATHLEEN AT 4081 
HELP!!! NEED 4 PURDUE GA'SI CALL KATIE AT X1297 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S CALL ERIK AT X2088. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED STANFORD and MIAMI TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S Call Mary at 3816. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SELL ME 2 GA's TO THE ND V. PURDUE GAME. CALL GREG AT x1594 8:00P.M., RENO. 
4057 BEST OFFER, Andy@1108 Wanted 2 GA's for Air Force NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL 
I NEED 2 STUDENT AND 1 GA big bucks paid DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546 
FOR AIR FORCE call Mason at 2787 AFTER 6 PM. PLEASE HELP! I need 4 Miami tix, 
CALL MIKE X3039 
stud or GA-call Amy at 3757 or WANTED· TIX 
Peggy 3831. 
MIA-N.D. GAME NEED TICKETS(GA'S) FOR AIR 
I need two GA's tor Penn State. CALL 800-323-7687 FORCE. CALL JULIA X3505 NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX!!!
Call John at 289-1015 $$ call MATI #2052 $$ 
see CLASS I page 9 

SOMETIMES ATANK TOP IS ALLYOU NEED. 
The Russell Athletic Thnk. It's cool. It's classic. And it's all you need-since college is probably costing you an arm or two. So we're going to lend you a hand. Simply identify this famous statue and the two other figures from our newspaper campaign. You could win a nice round figure of $1000 in scholarship money for next semes­ter.* Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 

*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 
... 
..--------------~----~---------­
Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer page 15 
--~---------~ 

A pilgrim's soul leads husband to heaven's gate 
Kathy, as a St. Mary's stu­
grows up. eye on your man, to see ir he dent, used to come regularly to Songs of innocence based on turns sad early. Love is the the children's liturgy I cele­Father Robert Griffin the Gospel are light-years away wine that keeps marriage brated at Notre Dame every from the lost boyhood of Judas young, since it's made from Sunday for twelve years. Even Letters to c Lonely God in which Christ was betrayed. young grapes that the bees get as a campus sweetheart, she The spiritual childhood does . drunk on as part of the uncer­enjoyed the company of urchins not necessarily bypass tain glory of April days." and moppets. Now as a doctor, swallowing your money, and on John 3: 16 ("For God so Housman's athlete dying young, Kathy, staying young on love she speeializes in child psychiatry. maybe the television is on the loved the world that He gave or the Shropshire lads and girls for a lifetime, could be better 
When she was married this fritz; but as a guest, you can His only-begotten Son ...), which who must, as chimney sweepers than wine. For Dave, she could summer in late August, she always get your hands on a has been translated into more come to dust; but to tell the be like water from the fountain asked me to especially remem­room copy of God's Word-un­than 1100 languages. Thanks truth, the Gospel does not have of youth. ber the children who couldn't less the previous occupant has to the Gideons, I can read that them in mind, either. For Dave's song of innocence, bB pmsent at the ceremony. She ripped it otT-if the deep dark verse recorded in 25 of the im­And so, in the marriage I chose a love poem by Yeats: twen telephoned me in London night of the soul, coming back portant world languages which homily for Kathy and Dave, "When you are old and gray to see if I couldn't create a spe­day after day, has you feeling are understood by three-quar­who love children, I talked and full of sleep," Yeats writes cial moment at the Nuptial grim at 3 a.m.. ters of the earth's population. about the dandelion wine that to the actress Maude Gonne, mass, celebrating the children Could there be a scene in Saturday morning at the Ray Bradbury wrote a short "take down this book and who need to feel loved. "Death of a Salesman" that Holiday Inn, two hours before story about. "Peer through it slowly read... How many loved 
Wanting to please the bride, I Arthur Miller hasn't written the wedding, I decided that I on the wintry day ... And peering your moments of glad tried to figure out how I could yet? BitT has walked into the should re-write Kathy and through, color sky from iron to grace)And loved your beauty seamlessly add a memento of hotel room where his father, Dave's homily starting from blue. Hold summer in you hand, with love false or true)But one Kathy's young patients in ab­Willy Loman, is giving silk scratch. The decision was in­pour summer in a man loved the pilgrim soul in sentia to the traditional rituals stockings to a Boston lady of spired by a reading of Matthew glass ... change the season in you)And loved the sorrows of of a marriage in Christ. the evening. 18: 1-10 ("Who is the greatest your veins by raising glass to your changing face." 
Afterwards, ashamed and in the kingdom of heaven?") in lip and tilting summer in." I told Dave, "As a pilgrim
By the time I arrived in Philadelphia, on the day before alone, Willy finds the Gideon the Gideon Bible, since it was Then Bradbury tells us about soul, Kathy can lead you to 
Bible in a dresser drawer; the only Bible in sight, once I Doug, the 12-year old dying in heaven's gate, where hearts arethe wedding, and registered at 
the Holiday Inn, Blake's poetry opening it, he reads Romans 3: decided that none of the Gospel August of heat exhaustion, examined like passports to see was running through my head 23: "For all have sinned and texts printed in the Catholic "Some people turn sad awfully if they've been stamped PURE. like a mantra: "On a doud I come short of the glory of Lectionary would do for Kathy. young. No special reason, it Only the pure of heart can hope saw a child)And (s)he laughing God," and other verses that Matthew 18: 1-10 doesn't seems but they seem almost to to see God, and that's what the said to rne:?"Pipe a song about appear inside the front cover, throw much of a floor under be born that way. They bruise spiritual childhood is all about. a Larnb!"/So I pipBd with merry under the title HELP IN TIME the theology of marriage, but it easier, tire faster, cry quicker, Always be on the lookout for cheer... " Still I hart a mental OF NEED. gave me a start on the chil­remember longer and, as I say, the pilgrim soul in your bride, block that stopped me from If Willy, studying those dren's cameo appearance. get sadder younger than anyone and you'll find the child who writing songs of innocence for Scripture aids, can take them What should I say at a wedding else in the world." never grows old waiting to Kathy. to heart, he could end the scene about the spiritual childhood? The cure that saves Doug is show you the Father's face." 
In the hotels east of Suez, on his knees, accepting Christ Should I tell a bride and groom bottled wine made from green I said all this and other stuff "where the best is like the as his personal Saviour. that "Childhood is the kingdom dusk for dreaming, and pure that you might have liked better worstJWhere there aren't no If you think I'm mocking hon­where nobody dies"/Nobody northern air derived from the if you'd been there to hear it. Ten commandments, an' a man est religion, as American as that matters, that is."? atmosphere of the white arctic, Homilies don't tend to turn out can raise a thirst," you may not apple pie in it style, you don't The Gospel insight is wonder­mixed with the wind from the well when they're written down find that the Gideons have left a understand how much of me fully ditTerent: "In heaven their upper Hudson valley. "Drink as articles, and this homily is 
King James Bible in the desk stays a born-again Baptist. angels do always behold the the content of the bottle. Not no exception. I wrote it down 
drawer of your room. Many a travelling salesman has face of my Father... " Songs of with you mouth, no. Drink with as a love letter to Kathy, whose 
Holiday Inns, east or west, made peace with God and gone innocence are not the same as a you nose ... and let what is in it professional life is dedicated to may be shabby. Maybe the ci­home by the road of the Cross, child's garden of verses. The go right down into your head." the care of children. I've loved garette machine in the lobby with the help of the Gideon child in the garden is Peter Pan, I said to Kathy: "You're the the pilgrim soul in her since she doBsn't work after shamelessly Bible, I can turn to the section puer aeternus, who never doctor in the family, so keep an was a college freshman. 

If you were one of the many crazy but enthusiastic people who signed up on Activities Night to work for 
The Observer 
Then we want YOU! If you are still interested in working for the only publication to cover both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on a daily basis, then come to an informational meeting on 
Wednseday, September 26 at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, First Floor LaFortune 
And if you didn't come see us on Activities Night but would still like to work with us, come to the meeting. More crazy people are always welcome. 
page 16 The Observer Friday, September 21, 1990 
~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
I 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
I 
I Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
I 
Desperately seeking Air FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS NEED STUDENT TIX FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED BIG DOLLARS!
NOTICES LOST: 14k gold rope chain Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or Force Tix-GA's and Student bracelet on Stepan Football GA Please call Matt X3024 Call x4808 
NON-SMOKER ALL HOME GAMES field. GREAT Sentimental 
273-9406 OR 283-2805 CALL 1597 TYPING AVAILABLE Value. If found, please call 287-4082 Cara at x3847. For Sale: NEED 1 STANFORD STUD. CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Gm I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force 
Tickets for all home games x1946 SEAN 'Sleeps 6, Ktch, 2 Btrm, etc." tix. Call Pat x 233-7328. 
call Joe X1688 Typing WANTED Monday -Thursday
1 BlockO.C. Pickup & Delivery 3:30-6:30 PM
CALL DENNIS x2097 277-7406 2 GA tix needed for Air Force. 
BABYSITTER NEEDEDII 277-8036 after 7 p.m. 
Need 2 Air Force GA's call During home FB games 'I need 6'
MALE ROOMATE NEEDED Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 PROFESSIONAL WORD Call Steve at X1037. PURDUE GAs 
FOR 2 BDRM APT PROCESSING BY THE HOME Ted x1942 I need two Purdue G.A.'s. 
AT TURTLE CREEK OFFICE. Call Steve 273-9471
277-8976 HELPIIII DESPERATELY NEED 2 Resumes, reports, manuscripts, 
MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ dissertations, theses, etc. Familiar RIDE NEEDED: to U. of Dayton or 
CALL NICOLE 234-8882 with various style manuals, as well Indiana U. any wknd this FOR SALE WANTED: 2 GAs to the as the N.D. "Guide". Reliable, semester. Will pay $$$. Call John STANFORD game. Call E.J. at accurate, efficient. Pickup and x1177. 272-4715. delivery available. Call 234-3891. SALE I Purdue & STNFD stu tix
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S 19" COLOR TV, TWO DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE 
271-9714 PURDUE! I NEED 2 PURDUE Have 2 Air Force GAs 
SEMESTERS $110, ONE AT 2344 SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING GA'S. Need 2 Purdue GAs 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 237-1949 IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE Want to trade? I need 1 Penn St. stud. tix
SEMESTERS $110, ONE CALL#3074. Jenny x1321 Call John F. x1622
SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S JUST SAY NOI 
5959. WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Need BABYSITTER for home FB Need 5 GAs any home game 3 STUD MIAMI TIX 
FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 Books, corner of ND ave. & games. Call Mike: x5689 (W) or Also need 1 Air Force BEST OFFER Howard. 233-2342 271-0579 (H). stud/GA Cathy x1321 271-0836
BIKE & COUCH.272-6306 NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S CALL KARIN x1992 Need 2 Purdue GA Wanted: 2 tickets for Miami Game. 
Miami GAs and Studs Face value plus picture of TICKETS FOR TRADE: 
Mike 273-1537 President Grant. 272-1981 
GA PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of GUITARISTS WANTED 
I GIVE YOU TWO AIR FORCE PLEASE. I really, really need 
YOU GIVE ME TWO MIAMI GA MONEY. Call Sean x1723 If you love to play the guitar and AIR FORCE TIXII HAVE 2 A. F. G.A.'s,need 1 Miami 
I GIVE YOU LOTS OF MONEYII! take requests, we need you to NEEDED 7 GAISTUD stud. tic.Will make deal. Need 
TIM x1421 play at a SMC bonfire on Oct. 1. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM response by 9pm Monday. Call 
HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will TONIGHT I For more info, call Ellen at 284-CALL JULIE X4975 x2336 or x3709
pay$$$$$$$$! Call Man X1055 4426. 
FOR SALE 1 miami stud. best TONIGHT! 
offer. x3487 NEED 2-4 AF GA'S. CALL KEVIN NEEDED -2 PURDUE GAs 
GRAD STUDENTS 273-1906 Call Tom at x1513
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and FACULTY Wanted a superior english student 
stud tix for any game. Todd x1747 STAFF to help me with my papers and 
1980 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX ONLY! reports. 277-5934 $$ I need 1 Miami stud. 
VERY GOOD CONDITION AUTOMATIC, AM/FM STEREO DESPERATELY need PURDUE 
x1640 Pete Grad-Faculty-Staff Social FOR SALE:
CASSETTE,. POWER GAslll Paul x1626 BRAKES/STEERING. $895. 289­
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB HELP! I need PURDUE stud tix. 3 Mich. St. Tics. ND Student 5:00PM-9:00PM Call Ann x3445. WILL TRADE MIAMI GA FOR 1 Section. Call by 6:00 today.
1440. I Need 2 Miami Tickets 
MIAMI STUD AND 1 AF STUD Ed 3402,or3407 TONIGHT! 271-8749
Students or GAs 
Will Pay Top Dollar WE NEED STANFORD 
Call Eric x2095 TONIGHTII TONIGHTII TICKETSIIII NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD WANTED: ONE PENN STATE If you can help us out, call GAs AND 1 STUD STUD. TICKET. BEST OFFER. TONIGHT! Michelle x3879 or Julie x3851. WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI CALL AMANDA X4953 NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS 
STUD 271-8749 
MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR WANTED: Subway needs delivery 
GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL driver/counterperson for Notre HELP! MY PARENTS ARE
SAM AT (201)334-3804.
LOST/FOUND 
Dame and St. Mary's. Uniforms, COMING ALL THE WAY FROM meals, and hourly bonus. MONTANA AND NEED SELL US YOUR STANFORD Appplicants must have 2 STANFORD GA'S TICKETSII (PLEASE) 
TREK 412 Bicycle very good 1111111!#####11!!!!1!1!1######## Lost: Woman's traditional dependable transportation. Call CALL RENZV AT X1945 We're desperately searching for 2 
cond. 277-7262 SOLVE MY PROBLEMS FOR MEl white gold ND class ring with 277-77 44 for Interview student tickets. If you have any,
I NEED 6 STANFORD AND 6 blue stone. $100 Reward. Please appointment. call Julie x3851 or Michelle x3879. 
PENN STATE GA's call Katie Basinski at X4559. I NEED MICH ST tixs.272-6306
One way ticket to SEATTLE for CALL TIM #2704 AND LEAVE 
OCT. BREAK, leave SB Fri A MESSAGE WANTED: Subway needs night I have 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET 
afternoon $100 or Best x2751 closers for S.R. 23 store. Need Miami GA's or Married for sale Jackie x4112 LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN Uniforms, meals, and hourly Pairs SAT. NIGHT BETWEEN ZAHM bonus. Call 277-77 44 for Good$$$$
HELP! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'SI HALL AND D2. GREAT interview appointment. Mark 232-4589 Have 2 Purdue GA
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL ERIN AT 283-3425 PERSONAL VALUE, PLEASE -Need 2 Stan GA
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE RETURN IF FOUND. TRADE? Rob 2463
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­271-9312 Need GAs for·AIR FORCE and HELP! NEED STUD. OR GA FOR
1364 TENNESSEE Jackie x4112 STANFORD GAME. CALL 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA FOR 2 MIAMI ALSO NEED GAS ALL 
LAURIE 2822. Desperately Seeking 5 AIR 
FORCE Ga's ...will buy as many as LOST!!! LOST! II LOSTIII you have to sell. Please call me! 
HOME GAMES TERRI X4837 
TOSHIBA 52" TV great cond. RAY-BAN ARISTA Angela @2496 
cost $1100,1et go for $600 
OUTDOORSMAN GOLD obo Sean @283-2025. TEXAS ALUMNI NEEDS 2-3 G.A. Needed: 1 AF (St) FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE Mike T. x1182
TICKETS TOGETHER IF MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL Keyboard player for N.D. Hockey Need one Purdue GA 
POSSIBLE FOR MIAMI AND TO ME-GIFT FROM games. Contact Hockey Office: Please Call Bill x4115
PENN STATE. CALL BROTHER SOMEONE!II!I WIL OFFER 239-5050 
FOR SALE: ROUND TRIP TO 287-0461 AFTER 6 P.M. REWARD! CALL DIANA 284­
CALIF. OCT. 2 -OCT. 11 $223 OR 5484. Need:
BEST OFFER? 239-6611 EXT. 
Need Purdue Tickets 
137. Need: PSU GA's 
call Joe or Glenn x3320 TICKETS FOR ALL HOME FOUND: MALE WATCH AT Christmas Help GAMES! 
Have: Purdue. AF, Pitt GA's 
Trade? Call Dan X3466 
MICHIGAN TAILGAITER 9/16 National firm has many openings TICKETS CALL JOSE 283-1985 available. $8.10 CALL JOE X1688 starting. Gain great business Will trade STANFORD or Monday-Thursday experience . Weekends and PURDUE stus for PENN ST stus 3:30-6:30
Need $$$?Sell I HAVE: evenings available.call 271-8699 or GA. Will also buy outright. 
your ga's to all 2 STANFORD GA's LOST: GOLD BRACELET PLEASE CALL FRANK 288-1264 
home games. 2 PURDUE GA's WED. 9-19 
Call tom x1597. 4 AIR FORCE GA's Please Return if found !I WANTED: 2 Perdue GA's 
& 2 NAVY (meadowlands) GA's X2728 Call Ellen x3842 
TO TRADE FOR : I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 6 MIAMI GA's & 2 STUD 
H E L PI!! GAMES.272-6306 CALL SALLY x4999 
NEED 1 AIR FORCE FOUND ON WHITE FIELD: STD. TICKET NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS. WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS
FOR RENT 
CALL LORI AT 284-5017 TO CALL PAUL 1121 PAYING TOP $$$$$
Need 1 Stanford IDENTIFYIII You can save a marriage, sell me Bob x2384 CALL JEFF@277-3998 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. 219-291-7153. I need dos PURDUE tix, stud or If anyone lost a key on one of the GA Marty@289-1015 buses for the Junior Cruise, it can I need two Stanford GA's BAD !I
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ NEEDED-4 GA TIX FOR PENN be identified and picked up in the 2 Bedroom Apt w/ Parents will take back tuition 
I need 2 GA's for EVERY home GAME-CALL X3635-MORE$$$$ offfice from 3-5 on Mon-Thurs. Full Bath + Kitchen game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER I IF THEY ARE IN SAME SECTION SELLING I if I don't come throughllllllll GREAT Location + Price Call Mike X3506 
PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ Call x3077 2AIR F. GA'S LOST: Colliagte Football on White 
MIAMI TIX WANTED 
Field last weekend. The name on NEED Need 2 Miami GAs 
$ STUDENT OR GA $ 
the side is "TATE" Please call Big$$
Need 1 student Penn State ticket (201) 334-3804 Chad at x1852. 1 STAN. GA Angie x2110
for a future Domer. Please call Pat at 273-9367. Studio Appt. Turtle Creek EITHER OR BOTH
NEED 3 G.A.'S TOGETHER FOR 
lost my keysll277-8379 1 0 min walking from campus. 
PURDUE OR AIR FORCE. 
Available Nov. 1st 272-1981 MATT 273-9602
CALL MATT AT 288-7568 
see CLASS I page 14 
--~-~ 
Friday, September 21, 1990 BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
E..l Division 
w L 
Toronto 82 68 
Boston 81 69 
Detroit 73 77 
Cleveland 7t 80 
Milwaukee 69 80 
Baltimore 67 Bt 
New York 60 90 
West Dlvlalon 
w L 
Oakland 95 54 
Chtcago 86 63 
Texas 79 70 
California 74 75 
Seattle 73 77 
Kansas City 69 80 
Mtnnesota 68 83 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Division 
w L Pittsburgh 86 64 New York 83 66 Montreal Bt 68 Chicago 7t 78 Phtladelphta 69 80 St. Louis 67 83 
Weal Division 
w L Cincinnati 83 66 Los Angeles 79 70 San F ranclsco 77 73 San Diego 7t 77 Houston 69 81 Atlanta 60 90 
z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Wednesday's Gameo 
Oakland 7. Chicago 3 
Cleveland 6, Milwaukee 3 
Toronto 7, New York 6 
Balttmore 8, Boston 4 
Minnesota 1, Kansas City 0, tt innings 
Texas 6, Seattle 5 
Detroit t2, California 5 Thursday's Games Late Game Not Included 
Cleveland t2, New York 7 
Chtcago at Seattle, (n) 
Only games scheduled Friday's Games Pet 
.547 
.540 
.487 
470 
.463 
453 
.400 
Pet .638 .577 .530 .497 .487 .463 .450 
Pet .573 .557 .544 .477 .463 .447 
Pet .557 .530 .5t3 .480 .460 .400 
Boston (Kiecker 6·9) at New York (Cary S·tO), 7:30p.m. Milwaukee (A.Robinson tt-3) at Baltimore (Harnisch t O-tt), 7:35 p.m. Cleveland (Farrell 4·4) at Toronto (Wells tt-4), 7:35p.m. Texas (B.Witt t6·9) at Minnesota (Tapani tt-7), 8:05p.m. California (McCaskill tt-tO) at Kansas City (Saberhagen 5-7), 8:35p.m. Detroit (Tanana 8-7) at Oakland (Welch 24·6), t0:35 p.m. Chicago (King t0-4) at Seattle (A.Johnson t3·9), 10:35 p.m. 
Saturday's Gameo Boston at New York, 12:20 p.m. Cleveland at Toronto, t :35 p.m. California at Kansas City, 2:35p.m. Detroit at Oakland, 4:05p.m. Mllwaukea at Baltimore, 7:35p.m. Texas at Mtnnesota, 8:05p.m. Chtcago at Seattle, t0:05 p.m. 
Sunday's Gameo Boston at New York, t :30 p.m. Milwaukee at Balttmore. t :35 p.m. 
Cleveland at Toronto, t :35 p.m. Texas at Minnesota, 2:t5 p.m. California at Kansas City, 2:35p.m. Detroit at Oakland. 4:05p.m. Chicago at Seattle. 4:35p.m. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wedneodey'o Gameo Pittsburgh B, Chicago 7 Montreal at New York, ppd., rain Atlanta 5, San Francisco 1 Houston 5. Cincinnati 2 Philadelphia B, St. Louts 4 San Diego 9, Los Angeles 4 
Thuroday'o Gameo 
Late Game Not Included Montreal 6, New York 4, t st game Montreal 2, New York 0, 2nd game Ptttsburgh tt , Chtcago 2 San Francisco 5, Atlanta 3 Houston 3, Cincinnati 2 St. Louis 5, Phtladelphia 4 San Diego at Los Angeles, (n) 
Friday's Gamao New York (Cone t2·9) at Chicago (S.Wilson 4·8), 2:20p.m. Montreal (De.Martinez tO-tO) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 6·7), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (Deleon 7-t7) at Pittsburgh (Z.Smlth t0-8), 7:35p.m. Houston (Deshates 6·t2) at Atlanta (Avery 3·9), 7:40p.m. Cincinnati (Aijo t2-7) at San Diego (Hurst t0-9), t0:05 p.m. San Francisco (Robinson t0·6) at Los Angeles (Morgan t0-t4), t0:35 p.m. 
Saturday'• Gemeo St. Louis at Pittsburgh, noon New York at Chtcago, 2:20p.m. Montreal at Phlladelphta, 7:05p.m. Houston at Atlanta, 7:t0 p.m. Cincinnati at San Diego, 2, 8:05p.m. San Franctsco at Los Angeles, t 0:05 p.m. 
Sunday'o Gameo Montreal at Philadelphia, t :35 p.m. St. Louts at Pt11sburgh, t :35 p.m. Houston at Atlanta, 2:t0 p.m. New York at Chicago, 2:20p.m. San Francisco at Los Angeles. 4:05p.m. Cincinnati at San Diego, 4:05p.m. 
LEAGUE LEADERS 
Baaed on 407 at Bate. AMERICAN LEAGUE G AB A 
H Pet. 
Brett KC t34 519 78 169 .326 
AHdsn Oak t26 452 ttt t47 .325
Plmaro Tax t4t 
547 
68 176 .322 
Boggs Bsn t45 58t 84 tBO .3t0
Trammell Det t39 534 69 t65 
.309
DParker Mil 146 566 173
68 .306 
CJames Cle t3t 488 57 149 .305 
EMartlnez Sea t37 469 68 t42 .303
McGrtfl Tor t4t 
505 
86 t52 .30t 
Harper Min 127 
453 
59 136 .300 
Puckett Min t37 5t4 Bt t54 
.300 
Home Runa 
Fielder, Detroit, 47; McGwire, Oakland, 38: JCanseco, Oakland, 37: McGriff, Toronto, 34: Gruber, Toronto, 28, Dear, Milwaukee, 27; RHenderson, Oakland, 26; BJackson, Kansas City, 25. 
Rune Batted In Fielder, Detroit, t21; Gruber, Toronto. t07; McGwire, Oakland, t04: JCanseco. O•kland. 95 DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Sierra, Texas. 9t: Maldonado, Cleveland, 89: Trammell. Detroit, 88. 
Pitching (t2 Declolona) 
Welch, Oakland. 24-6, BOO; BJones, Chtcago, 1t-3, .786; RAobinson. Milwaukee, tt-3, .786; Clemens, Boston, 20·6, .769; Stteb, Toronto, t8·6, .750: Wells, Toronto, tt-4, .733; CFinley, California, 18·7, .720; Ktng, Chtcago, t0-4, .7t4. 
page 17
The Observer SPORTS CALENDAR 
Friday, September 21 
Men's soccer at Michigan State, 4 p.m. Women's soccer at Michigan State, 2 p.m. Men's tennis hosts Tom Fallon Invitational, 9 p.m. Volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament 
Saturday, September 22 
Volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament Football at Michigan State, 2:30 p.m. 
Sunday, September 23 
Men's soccer at Marquette, t p.m. Women's soccer at Marquette, t 0:45a.m. 
RESULTS 
Monday, September 17 Men's soccer 6, Valparaiso 0 
Tuesday, September 18 No sports scheduled 
Wednesday, September 19 
Detroit 2, Men's soccer 0 Women's soccer 2, St. Joseph's 0 
Thursday, September 20 

No Sports Scheduled AP
Source: Olympic Planning Committee, Journal-Constitution 
GB 
t 9 1t t/2 t2t/2 t4 22 
GB 
9 t6 2t 22 t/2 26 28 
GB 
2 t/2 4t/2 14 t/2 t6t/2 t9 
GB 
4 6 1/2 tt t/2 t4t/2 23 t/2 L10 Z·B-2 2-B z-7-3 8·2 3-7 4-6 z-3-7 
L10 6·4 z-7·3 z-7·3 5·5 z-4-6 3·7 3·7 
L10 z-4-6 z-5-5 Z·B·2 6·4 4·6 3·7 
L10 z-4·6 z-6-4 z-5·5 z-8·2 6-4 2·8 Streak Won6 Lost 2 Won4 Won4 Lost 3 Won2 Lost6 
Streak Wont Lost t Wont Lost4 Lost t Lost2 Won2 
Streak Won2 Lost 4 Won6 Lost 2 Lost t Wont 
Streak Lost3 Lost t Wont Won5 Won2 Lost t 
NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN 
East Miami Buffalo New England 
N.Y. Jets Indianapolis Central Cincinnati Cleveland Pittsburgh Houston Wast 
L.A. Ratders Denver Kansas City San Diego Seattle 
NATIONAL 
East 
N.Y. Giants Dallas Phoenix Washington Philadelphia Central Chicago Detroit Green Bay Minnesota Tampa Bay West 
CONFERENCE  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
2  0  0  t.OOO  57  3t  
t  t  0  .500  33  40  
t  t  0  .500  40  4t  
t  t  0  .500  44  46  
0  2  0  .000  24  42  
2  0  0  t.OOO  46  36  
t  t  0  .500  34  27  
t  t  0  .500  23  22  
0  2  0  .000  36  67  
2  0  0  t.OOO  31  22  
t  t  0  .500  33  37  
t  t  0  .500  47  45  
0  2  0  .000  30  38  
0  2  0  .000  t3  34  
CONFERENCE  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
2  0  0  1.000  55  27  
t  t  0  .500  24  42  
t  t  0  .500  23  54  
1  t  0  .500  44  26  
0  2  0  .000  4t  50  
2  0  0  1.000  48  t3  
t  t  0  .500  42  52  
t  t  0  .500  49  55  
1  0  .500  53  27  
t  0  .500  52  56  

San Francisco  2  0  0  1.000  39  25  
Atlanta  t  t  0  .500  6t  48  
L.A. Rams  1  t  0  .500  59  50  
New Orleans  0  2  0  .000  t5  45  
Sunday's Games  
Dallas at Washington, t p.m.  
Indianapolis at Houston, t p.m.  
Kansas City at Green Bay, t p.m.  
Miami at New York Giants, 1 p.m.  
Minnesota at Chicago, t p.m.  
New England at Cincinnati, t p.m.  
Phoenix at New Orleans, t p.m.  
San Diego at Cleveland, t p.m.  
Atlanta at San Francisco, 4 p.m.  
Philadelphia at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m.  
Pittsburgh at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m.  
Seattle at Denver, 4 p.m.  
Detroit at Tampa Bay, B p.m.  
Monday's  Game  
Buffalo at New York Jets, 9 p.m.  

Baaed on 407 At Bats NATIONAL LEAGUE G AB 
A H Pet.
McGeeStL t25 SOt 
76 t68 .335
Dykstra Phi t40 555 
99 t83 .330
Murray LA t43 5t3 
89 t67 .326 
Magadan NY t32 4t0 
68 t32 .322
Grace Chi t44 542 68 t7t 
.3t5 
Dawson Chi t35 487 
63 t52 .3t2 
TGwynn SO 14t 
573 BO t77 
.309
Roberts SO t38 
523 99 
t6t .308 
Bonds Pit t4t 
488 
tOt t50 .307 
Sandberg Chi t44 574 t09 t75 
.305 
Home Runs 
Sandberg, Chicago, 37; MijcheU, San Francisco •. 35; Strawberry, New York, 35: Bonds, Pittsburgh, 32, Bontlla, Pittsburgh, 3t; MaWIIItams, San Franctsco, 30; Gant. Atlanta, 29; Daniels, Los Angeles 26; Justtce, Atlanta, 26. ' 
Runs Ballad In Bonilla, Pittsburgh, tt2; JCarter, San Diego, tt2: Bonds, Pittsburgh, ttt; MaWilliams, San Fra11ctsco, 1tt; Strawberry, New York, t04: Wallach, Montreal, 94: Mitchell, San Francisco, 93: Sandberg, Chicago, 92. 
Pitching (12 Decisions) Darwin, Houston, tt-3, .786: Drabek, Pittsburgh, 20·6, .769; RMartinez, Los Angeles, t9·6, .760; Tudor, St. Louis, t2·4, .750; Gooden, New York, 17-6, .739; Boyd, Montreal, t0-5, .667: Harkey, Chicago, t2·6, .667; Viola, New York, t9·t 0, .655. 
OLYMPICS 
Sites of Summer Olympics 
1896  Athens, Greece  
1900  Paris, France  
1904  St. Louis, MO, USA  
1908  London, England  
1912  Stockholm, Sweden  
1920  Antwerp, Belgium  
1924  Paris, France  
1928  Amsterdam, Netherlands  
1932  Los Angeles, CA. USA  
1936  Berlin, Germany  
1948  London, England  
1952  Helsinki, Finland  
1956  Melbourne, Australia  
1960  Rome, Italy  
1964  Tokyo, Japan  
1968  Mexico City, Mexico  
1972  Munich, West Germany  
1976  Montreal, Quebec, Canada  
1980  Moscow, USSR  
1984  Los Angeles, CA. USA  
1988  Seoul, Sourth Korea  
1992  Barcelona, Spain  
1996  Atlanta, GA, USA  

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Signed Doug Rader, 
manager, to a two-year contract extension through 
the t992 season. 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Announced Mark Wiley, 
Jose Morales, Rich Dauer, Mike Hargrove, Luis 
Isaac, and Billy Williams, coaches, have been 
rehired for next season. 
BASKETBALL 
National Basketball Association 
SACRAMENTO KINGS-Signed Anthony 
Bonner, forward, to a three-year contract. 
Continental Basketball Association 
SAN JOSE JAMMERS-Named Marc Moqutn 
director ol public relations. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 
NFL-Suspended Terry Taylor, Detroit Lions cornerback, for life after testing positive for Illegal substances for a third time. 
ATLANTA FALCONS-Released Gilbert Renfroe, quarterback. Re-signed William Evers, defensive beck. 
SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Signed Ron Heard, wide receiver. Released Jerry Mays, running beck. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
HARTFORD WHALERS-Signed Mlkael Andersson, left wing, to a multiyear contract. Released Mark Vachon, David Flanagan, and Dan Shea, forwards, and Rob White and Mike Cavanaugh, defensemon. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Kevin MUier, center, and Bob Froese and Mark Laforest, goaltenders. Assigned Craig Barnett, Scott Brower, and Sam St. Laurent, goahenders; Gord Cernlch, Todd Charlesworth, Murray Duval. Peter Florentino, Erlc Germain, Rob Krauss, Mike Hurbut and Peter Laviolette, defonsemon; and Martin Bergeron, Bob Bodak, Chris Cichocki, Ross Fitzpatrick, Mike Golden, Daniel Lacroix, Joe Paterson, Greg Spenrath and Soren True, forwards, to Binghamton of the American Hockey League. 
SOCCER Major Indoor Soccer League DALLAS SIDEKICKS-Signed Pedro DeBrlto midfielder. SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Signed Jim Gaberra forward. COLLEGE 
NCAA-Placed the University of Florida lootball and basketball programs on two years' probation. TEXAS A&M-Named Tina Cheatham assistant 
for women's athletics. XAVIER, OHio-Named Louis Orr men's assistant basketball coach. 

page 18 The Observer Friday, September 21, 1990 
SECURITY BEAT
Iraq banned by Asian Games 

BEIJING (AP) -The Olympic Council of Asia expelled Iraq from the Asian Games Thursday for its invasion of Kuwait, despite Iraq's insistence that the sports body should stay out of politics. 
Iraq also was suspended from the council until Kuwait's National Olympic Committee is able to function normally in its homeland again. Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2, and most of Kuwait's potential competitors for the Sept. 20-0ct. 7 Games were trapped there. 
The vote was 27-3, with five abstentions and one invalid ballot, officials said. 1\vo other members of the 38-member council-Mongolia and Afghanistan-stayed out of the voting. The reason was not immediately known. 
Iraq, Yemen and Palestine voted against expulsion, said Roy De Silva of Sri Lanka, vice chairman of the meeting. 
Athens blasts IOC decisi-on 
ATHENS, Greece (AP) ­Greek president Constantine Caramanlis said Friday that the International Olympic Committee had "ignored the history of the Olympic Games" in awarding the 1996 games to Atlanta. 
Athens, where the modern Olympics were resurrected in 1896, had hoped to host the games in their centennial year. 
"I can only express my regrets because the recent decision by the International Olympic Committee has ignored the history of the 
BEFORE YOU RAVE TO BURY YOURHEADIN BOOKS••• 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BLOWDRY
$1195 
• No Appo:intrnent! 
• 7 Days a Week! 
• FBEE Ta.nrring ­Buy4-Get4 FBEE! 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE RO , MISHAWAKA 
277-7946 
HOURS 2••'y 9-8 Salurday 9 6 • 5uf1day · S 
·Copyngh! Ch1cago 1-lau ·....urt1ng r:o ·~'JL 
DOMER RUNS ... A CAMPUS TRADITION 
1\vo days before the Games' opening ceremonies, 52 Kuwaiti athletes and officials had checked into the Games village. All had been outside their country when Iraq invaded. 
Iraq had intended to send 124 athletes to compete in the Asian Games. None had entered the village by Thursday, although an Iraqi soccer team, in China for other competition, was awaiting results of the vote. 
In all, some 4,000 athletes are expected to compete for 308 gold medals in 27 sports. 
"We the Kuwaitis have justice on our side," said Ahmed Fahd Al-Sabah, president of Kuwait's National Olympic Committee. 
His father, Sheikh Fahd Al­Ahmed Al-Sabah, had been president of the Olympic Council of Asia, but was killed when Iraqi troops stormed the royal palace in Kuwait City. 
Thursday's council meeting began with all delegates, 
Olympic Games and the ideals that symbolize the Olympic spirit," the president said in a statement. 
"It is clear that its assessment was influenced by expediencies that have harmed not only this historical institution, but also 
(the  committee's)  own  
prestige."  
In  1976,  when  he  was  

premier, Caramanlis proposed that the Olympic Games be held permanently in Greece. The country launched the ancient Olympics in 776 B.C. 
including the Iraqis, standing in a moment of silence for him, delegates said. 
The younger Al-Sabah said he was "very overwhelmed" by the silent tribute. 
Asked if the vote would lift Kuwaiti athletes' morale, he said, "It will help our athletes, but unfortunately most of our athletes cannot participate. 
"In any case, they feel now that the whole world and Asia are with them," he said. 
He said the meeting proceeded smoothly, in a constitutional manner, and only the Iraqis raised any objections, claiming the voting had been rigged. 
Abdul Karim Al-Mulla, president of Iraq's National Olympic Committee, said, "We feel sorry for the (Iraqi) athletes. We feel more sorry for the spirit of Olympism. This is a victory for everything illegal." 
An Iraqi National Olympic Committee statement described the procedures in Iraq's expulsion as "a clear and flagrant violation of the OCA constitution and all its principles and values of fair treatment for all members." 
It also said Iraq was "keen not to involve this assembly in the Gulf crisis and what accompanies it concerning well-known international and regional interferences." 
My Macintosh is more important to me than my car. Ilent my car to my sister. But nobody's taking my Macintosh. 
The Notre Dame swim team is seeking back-up timers for the swim meets and for people with experience in the Colorado Time System. All who are interested should attend at meeting Sunday, Sept. 23rd at 1 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center classroom. 
Domer Runs will be Saturday, Sept. 22. Three and six mile races start at 10 a.m.; participants receive tee-shirt and pancake breakfast. Sign up at NVA. 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball team will be holding tryouts for the 1990-91 season this Sunday, Sept. 23rd, at 6 
p.m. in the JACC pit (near gate 3).Any questions, call Tom at x3697. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastic Club will meet Mon.-Fri. from 4:30-6:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility at SMC. New members are welcome; no experience necessary. Questions, call Mary at 284-5341, Timmy at 3268, John at 2101 or Katie at 4877. 
Stepan Center Basketball court time scheduling meeting will be held Thursday, Sept. 27th, 6-7 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All hall athletic commissioners and group representatives requiring court time must attend this meeting. Please RSVP for the meeting by Tuesday, Sept. 25th to Student Activities, 239-7308. 
The Ice Rink is opened to students, faculty and staff Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 12-1 p.m. FREE ICE. 
DREW, SULLY, MONO, SHELL, and MALIN!, thanks a lot for putting up 
Class 
with me over the past two continued from page 9 weeks. If it weren't for you 
guys I would've jumped off of 
my balcony .... Love, Col 
HEY Mo and Grace-infatuated woman I Thanks for "bonding" with me during my stress week. Grotto sdgf runs are the best, and you guys are, too. Was that a ... grape? Happy Birthday to all the Jelly How about those raisins! 26'ers Donuts In Alumnillll!ll!l! rule Ill 
THIS SATURDAY AT 1O:OOAM RUNS FOLLOWED BY A PANCAKE BREAKFAST MEET AT STEPAN CENTER NEAR MAINTENANCE BUILDING FOR THE 3 & 6 MILE RUNS 
$6.00 ENTRY FEE IN ADVANCE ($7.00 DAY OF) T-SHIRTS TO ALL RUNNERS SPONSORED BY NVA 
\­
-----------~-----------­

BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS &DECISION SUPPORT GRADUATES 

The next wave in innovative information systems is being formed today at Kraft General Foods,the largest U.S.-based international food company in America. we are what you eat -our list of famous products includes Birds Eye, Breyers, Budget Gourmet, Cheez Whiz, Claussen pickles, Cool Wllip,Entenmann's, JELL-0, Maxwell House, Scaltest and Tombstone pizza. Currently,our worldwide sales exceed $23 billion. 
We're out to change the way we do business -to usc information to a competitive advantage. Our Information Systems Group · is reshaping and reengineering the way we operate and compete. This environment isn't for everyone. We're determined to hire only the best -creative thinkers who can look at the big picture, not just the small screen. 
we have current opportunities in our state-of­the-art IBM environment for: 
ORDER MANAGEMENT 
LOGISTICS 
DECISION SUPPORT 
CASE TOOLS 
DATABASE ADMINISTRATION 
SYSTEMS SOFTWARE 
HUMAN RESOURCE INFORMATION 
SYSTEMSIPA YROLL 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
I 
~ 
:::> 
g 
0
a: 
a... 
>-­
CD 
w 
_J 
~ 
~ 
~ 
a: 
u 
~ 
@ 
We reward top talent with top salaries and benefits, but rnore importantly, we offer the opportunity to take your potential for success from the "computer room" to the "board room" and into the general management arena. If leading the business through information systems for a Fortune so leader sounds like your kind of chal­lenge, we're your opportunity. To learn more about these opportunities. we invite you to con1e by and visit with information systems profession­als at our "Kraft General Foods' Information Systems Night". An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
''INFORMATION SYSTEMS NIGHT'' 
Monday, September 24 7pm-9pm The University Club 
Call I-800-KGFOODS for more details. 
KRAFTGENERAL FOODS 
INNOVATING BEYOND THE EDGE. LEAVING TRADITION BEHIND. 

r 
t Detroit's Taylor tests postive, 
t 
gets lifetime ban from NFL 
-~------~---~---­
page 20 The Observer 
DETROIT (AP) -Cornerback Terry Taylor of the Detroit Lions became the fourth NFL player banned for life under the league's drug policy. 
The Lions, who acquired Taylor from the Seattle Seahawks last season for running back James Jones, said Thursday they won't appeal the league action. based on Taylor's third positive test for substance abuse. Taylor can reapply for admission to the league in a year. 
"It's always a shock to find out something like that, and my heart is heavy and saddened. But we have to go on and hope things work out for Terry," Coach Wayne Fontes said. 
Taylor has been dogged by trouble for most of his seven­year career, which began when he chosen by Seattle as the 22nd player in the 1984 draft. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
ent this weekend. We've been playing man-to-man lately, but we may play a zone this week­end to keep from getting too spread out. We will spend time in practice trying to do that. If we can defend well against these two teams, then we're in the game. We just have to keep them from scoring." 
Like their coach, the Notre Dame players have no illusions about what they must do to 
Fallon 
continued from page 24 
Once again, the Irish will compete with some quality teams, including Top-25 squads from West Virginia, Harvard, Northwestern, and Ball State. Rounding out the 12-team field are Rice, Michigan, Colorado, Southern Illinois, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Army. 
ALL NEW "PUB BITES" MENU: APPETIZERS SANDWICHES PIZZA STEAKS 
Neither Taylor nor his agent, Jack Mills of Boulder, Colo., could be reached by telephone on Thursday. 
The other players banned for life under the NFL's drug program were Indianapolis running back Tony Collins and defensive ends Dexter Manley of Washington and Frank Warren of New Orleans. 
Collins was reinstated this season but was released a week ago by the Miami Dolphins. 
Teammate Leroy Irvin, signed as a free agent this year, said Thursday he had talked to Taylor and that Taylor was devastated by his lifetime ban. 
"He has to go ahead and do what he has to do to get back in the game," said Irvin, who once was suspended by the league for 30 days for failing a drug test when he was with the Los 
come home with a pair of victo­ries. 
"These will be two of our toughest games," said senior co-captain Mimi Suba. "We have to keep our minds on de­fense. 
"We really needed our last few wins for momentum. Our defense was good in all of them. I can honestly say that we are a better team than in the beginning of the year, and hopefully that is enough to get us some wins." 
Said freshman forward Tasha Strawbridge: "It's exciting to be ranked. We think that we can beat Michigan State and keep 
With the exception of DiLucia, the positions are all up for grabs, and Bayliss said he wants to see some people come forward this weekend. 
"We're still finding our­selves. At this point, know one other than DiLucia knows where he stands on this team," he said. 
The doubles teams will un­dergo a complete overhaul from last weekend in order to find winning combina-Angeles Rams. 
In Seattle, Taylor twice tested positive for substance abuse. He was treated once and fought a 1988 four-game suspension in court. 
He was charged with assault after he allegedly punched a woman in the mouth outside a suburban Seattle video store in September 1987. The complaint was settled out of court and Taylor paid the woman unspecified damages. 
Taylor also had numerous traffic violations and missed court appearances, according to court records. He has no criminal record in Michigan, Oakland County police said. 
Taylor had 309 tackles and 16 interceptions, including two he returned for touchdowns. 
Taylor started the first two regular-season games with the Lions, recording 10 tackles. 
improving." 
Strawbridge, one of 14 freshmen on the Notre Dame roster, had the first Irish hat trick of the season. Her three goals, which came against Valparaiso, put her second on the Notre Dame scoring list this season. 
"This is a big weekend for us," said coach Chris Petrucelli. "This weekend gives us a chance to prove ourselves. One of our goals that we set at the beginning of the season was to be competitive and successful in our region. These games are a great opportunity for us to do just that." 
tions. 
"We'll be disappointed if we don't improve on our ef­fort from last week," said Bayliss. 
The toughest singles com­petition will come from Dan Brakus, the top Canadian singles palyer from the Michigan. Steve Campbell, an All-American at Rice who once was a Notre Dame re­cruit, and Wisconsin's Jack Waite are also facorites along with DiLucia. 
WMRD'S 
LODIIE AID RES,.ADRAN,. 
within walking distance of campus-under new management 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK AT 4:00 PM 
DJ EVERY TUESDAY LIVE ROCK-N ROLL AND THURSDAY EVERY FRIDAY, 
SATYRDAY & SUNDAY 301 DART TOURNAMENT EVERY SUNDAY 7:30PM
WMRD 
1516 N. Ironwood, South Bend In 
233-7747 


SATURDAY
JFRJIDAY 
LUNCH 
Join the draft 
11-2 
ARMED
Grad 
SERVICES
Social 
NIGHT
Hour 5-9 
-~-­
The Observer I Kenneth Osgood Mitch Kern (right) and the men's soccer team travel to Michigan State and Marquette this weekend. 
NATURAL  SNACK  FOODS  
-FRUIT  & NUT  MIXES  ORGANIC  
-CHIPS  and  JUICES  PRODUCE  
FAST  HEALTHY  ENTREES  


Men 
continued from page 24 
had trouble with the Warriors last year, winning 1-0 at Marquette, and tying them 2-2 at Krause Stadium. 
Marquette, led by Matt Dillon and Jay Spatzek, finished with an 8-8-4 record in their first season of MCC play, going 4-1-1 in league play. 
Notes: Kevin Pendergast's six 
points against Valparaiso put 
him into a tie for eighth place on the Great Lakes Region scoring list. Evansville's David Weir leads the list with 18 points. The six points in the Valparaiso game gave Pendergast 16 points on the season, a total he did not reach until the 14th game of the sea­son last year. 
Notre Dame soccer will be going national next week. First­year head coach Mike Berticelli will be the subject of an article in Soccer America, one of the major soccer magazines in the 
country. 

228 W. Edison Mishawaka, IN 46545 Hours 10 AM · 7 PM M· Sal 255·3151 
~ z ~ 
.; 
f 01\0+1 
-BURRITOES -POT PIES NATURAL -PIZZA -SOUPS COSMETICS 

Think Globally, Buy Naturally. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Gemastne
at n1te 

"ONE OF THE YEAR'S 10 BEST! TWO JUBII..ANT TIIUMBS UP FOR TillS TRIUMPHANT COMIDY. AN AMERICAN CLASSIC. 
EASILY ONE OF THE MOST ENTERTAINING Fli.MS OF THE YEAR. ')
IT HAS ACHANCE AT BEING NOMINATED FOR ONE OF THE BEST PICTURES OF THE YEAR~ 
j
_,,~1.•·1 ... llu•JI 
IOBESTLIST 
·-·"*~· 
-\ lllto•nll,U1h\ THt \H\ 'llltl\ ri\H.' -ltulll'f Hwrl '1~1\U b. Ult"H I 
-l•·llfl"\ 1.\nm. :-,\1..\11: I_'H.~:\ lr\\:0.&. \\"1'1\ r\ \1\\ \IIHI\ . -'h·~;lrl 1\h•m \\. \1\\ 1\ -1,1111"1 \\,1,!111 1 Ht. 'E\\ ,.IIHII: fi\U.:-o -Iill\ Fl.tlk\ l"II;->\HIPI )/If:" -t,••m•'l"k••ll"Hil \t,IITH.UU \I -l'•·h·r Tr,,,,.,, Hlll.l.l\ti,TO'l­-luthl h rnst -.lark t iarrwr. t ,\\\l-T I \f.W:>ol'..\l'l-.K:>o -\UI\ louhlll. \ II.L.-\Iit \llll t -luhu H.utl ,._ \TlU 11\lt:>o 
WAR~ER BROS.,..•• ,, .DOG EAT DOG FILMS,........ ,... '''"""MICHAEL MOORE "ROGER &ME" "'"'' •··:<:;~:::~:-~~ ~HCHAEL MOORE ~B 
-. MaTIUCtaD 0 \I."ARNER BROS 
R ··••••ltuiiiJO(_...,.. ~·~"''~ ,.._...,, '" '"'"~,,-w.r~'l
• U~•tii~ICUUIIIII J .-.._._lo.U~-­
TONIGHT 6:30, 8:15, 10:00 


Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer page 21 
AP Photo Gregg Jefferies (sliding) may have gotten the advantage off Spike Owen as he stole a base off the Expos Tuesday night, but Montreal got the last laugh as it took two games from the Mets Thursday night. 
Expos sweep Mets as Pittsburgh wins 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Hookie Chris Nabholz pitched a one­hittnr for his first major league shutout and complete game and tlw Montreal Expos beat Nnw York 2-0 to complnte a doubleheader sweep Thursday, dropping the slumping Mets 2 1/2 games behind first-place Pittsburgh in the National League East. 
In the opener, the Expos rallied for four runs in the eighth inning against 19-game winner Frank Viola and Mets relief ace John Franco and won 6-4. The Expos have won six straight and are two games in back of New York and 4 1/2 behind Pittsburgh, which beat Chicago 11-2. 
Nabholz (6-0) did not allow a hit for 5 2-3 innings until Tommy Herr's clean single. The left-hander walked three and struck out six. He has not allowed more than four runs in any of his nine major league starts. 
In the second game, Montreal scored both its runs in the fourth inning off Sid Fernandez (9-14) on Tim Wallach's RBI single and Marquis Grissom's sacrifice fly. Fernandez gave up only two hits in six innings, both in the fourth when Andres Galarraga and singled with one out after a leadoff walk to Tim Haines. 
In the opener, Viola led 4-2 and was five outs away from his 20th victory when Spike Owen tripled and pinch-hitter Mike Fitzgnrnld singled. Haines' single chast~d Viola and Franco was grBeted by Otis Nixon's single that scored pinch-runner Moises Ainu with the tying run. 
If You're Considering ACareer In Tax---There's Something Important You Should Know 
Your clients won't expect you to know every word and phrase of the Internal Revenue Code. They will expect you to know the industry-specific business issues they are facing and how the Code affects their particular business. And they will look to you, the broad­based tax adviser, to manage a series of relationships involving a wide range of tax sub­jects-from the general to the highly specific. 
Most people who join the PW tax team directly from college become broad-based business advisers responsible for the overall client relationship. You can count on PW for the techni­cal tax training and practical experiences you need to become a top-level tax professional and business adviser that clients can rely on. 
To learn more about becoming a Price Waterhouse Tax Adviser, please interview with us when we're on campus October 8 &9. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H Price Waterhouse 
Galarraga put the Expos ahead with a sacrifice fly and Nixon, who stole second and took third on a passed ball, scored on Wallach's infield hit. 
Viola (19-10) gave up five runs and six hits-including solo homers by Raines and Wallach-in 7 1-3 innings in losing to the Expos for the first time in five career decisions. Mel Rojas (3-1) pitched one inning for the victory and Tim Burke pitched two hitless innings for his 20th save. 
The Mets scored all their runs against rookie Brian Barnes, two on RBI singles by Tommy Herr. 
"We have to pass the Mets before thinking about first place," Expos manager Buck Rodgers said. "I just hope the schedule doesn't run out on us." 
"We've come back before but now time is just running out," Mets first baseman Dave Magadan said. "Now we have to win on the road." 
The Mets play 10 of their remaining 13 games away from home, where they are 32-39 compared to 51-27 at Shea Stadium. 
"The Expos are really loose and having fun," Mets manager Bud Harrelson said. "They're getting good pitching and lots of key hits. We're struggling." 
"I didn't even know I had a no-hitter," said Nabholz, who was 0-6 at Triple-A Indianapolis. "I threw a no­hitter in high school, but this was my best game as a profes­sional." 

on your season opener against SIEGFRIED!!! From SPARKY The Spirit Matchstick 
Pirates 11, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO-Pittsburgh won its second straight after a six­game losing streak as Andy Van Slyke hit two home runs and drove in three runs and Barry Bonds hit a two-run homer. 
Van Slyke homered in the first inning off ex-Pirate Randy Kramer (0-3) and hit a two-run homer, his 17th, off Mitch Williams in a three-run sixth. Bonds hit his 32nd homer in the eighth inning after Van Slyke walked. 
"I woke up, opened the drapes and saw the lake was calm," Van Slyke said. "I knew the wind was blowing out, and that brought a smile to my face." 
Bob Walk (6-5) raised his career record to 10-3 against the Cubs. He needed relief in 
STEtW j~ 
PRIME RIB~ ~(~~ SEAFOOD ~~~~ 
HRfSTAURA;"l 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 
the sixth after Ryne Sandberg hit his league-leading 37th home run. Vicente Palacios allowed two hits in blanking the Cubs over the final 3 2-3 innings for his first save. 
The Pirates scored three runs in the second. Bonds and Mike LaValliere walked and scored on a triple by Jose Lind. Walk singled to score Lind. Lind singled to open the fourth and two walks loaded the bases before Bobby Bonilla hit a two­run single. 
Astros 3, Reds 2 
HOUSTON-Pinch-hitter Carl Nichols singled home the tying and winning runs with two out in the ninth inning Thursday night, giving the Houston Astros a 3-2 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
Glenn Davis led off the ninth with a single off Reds relief ace Randy Myers (3-5), who relieved starter Norm Charlton in the eighth. Gerald Young ran for Davis and Dave Rohde, another pinch hitter, was hit by a pitch. 
Craig Biggio sacrificed the runners to second and third and Rafael Ramirez was intentionally walked, loading the bases. Myers struck out Mark Davidson before Nichols batted for winning pitcher 
~<' 
' ... ' 
Xavier Hernandez and delivered his game-winning hit. 
Hernandez (2-0) pitched one hitless inning in relief of Mike Scott, who gave up two runs -one earned-and six hits in eight innings. Charlton held Houston to three hits in 7 1-3 innings. Since moving into the starting rotation July 15, Charlton is 7-3 with a 1.91 ERA and has not allowed more than three earned runs in any of his 14 starts. 
The Reds took a 1-0 lead in the second inning when Davis singled, stole second, continued to third on catcher Biggio's throwing error and scored on a passed ball. Eric Davis made it 2-0 in the fourth with his 22nd homer. 
The Astros began their comeback in the sixth when Eric Yelding singled, stole second and scored on a single by Casey Candaele. 
The Reds, who have lost three straight and six of 11, began play 4 1/2 games ahead of the Los Angeles Dodgers, who played a late game against San Diego. 
Giants 5, Braves 3 
ATLANTA-Pinch-hitter Mike Laga hit a tie-breaking two-run homer in the sixth inning to give Eric Gunderson his first major league victory. Laga, batting for Gunderson, hit his second home run of the season off John Smoltz (13-10) following a one-out single by Jose Uribe for a 4-2 lead. 
Rick Reuschel, recently off the disabled list, gave up a run and three hits in four inning for his first save since Oct. 5, 1985, when he pitched for Pittsburgh. Gunderson (1-2) yielded two runs and two hits in five innings. 
Cardinals 5, Phillies 4 
ST. LOUIS-Hookie Hay Lankford's pinch single capped a three-run ninth inning that snapped the Cardinals' four­game losing streak, as the Cardinals were held to two runs and four hits over eight innings by Terry Mulholland. 
Todd Zeile started the ninth with a double, bringing on Roger McDowell (6-8). 
Zeile held second on Rex Hudler's infield hit and took third as Pedro Guerrero hit into a double play. Felix Jose's infield hit made it 4-3 and, after Jose stole second, Denny Walling, pinch hitting for winner Mike Perez (1-0), singled off third baseman Charlie Hayes' glove to tie the game. Ozzie Smith's double sent pinch-runner Dave Collins to third before Lankford's single gave Perez his first major league win. 
---------~----~---­
page 22 The Observer Friday, September 21, 1990 
Belles' volleyball, tennis add to winning records 
Saint Mary's tennis team extends undefeated string after trouncing Saint Francis College 9-0 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team expanded its winning streak Tuesday , improving its record to 5-0 after soundly defeating Saint Francis College 9-0. 
In singles competition, senior Sarah Mayer played in the No. 1-position, blanking her oppo­nent 6-0, 6-0, while sister Ellen Mayer, a junior, swept her opponent in the No.2-spot, 6-1, 6-0. 
Junior Marie Koscielski, playing in the third spot, cap­tured an easy 6-0, 6-1 victory while number four Natalie Kloepfer, sophomore, trounced her opponent 6-0, 6-0. 
"This year, Natalie is ranked number four and last year she was ranked number six. This has been a tough year for hear, but she is doing fine," co-coach Dr. Jo-Ann Nester said. Kloepfer has been undefeated so far this season. 
Freshmen Thayma Darby and Mary Crosgrove both blanked their cross-court rivals 6-0, 6-0. 
"This has been the strongest recruiting class Saint Mary's has had in a long time," Dr. Nester added. 
In doubles play, the No.-1 team of the Mayer sisters swept passed their opponents 6-1, 6­
1. "This year is the first time that they are playing doubles together," said Dr. Nester. "They never wanted to play play together before, but their styles are similar and they are a solid combination." 
Koscielski and Kloepfer defeated their opponents 6-1, 
6-3 while the number Darby and freshman Jennifer Kovass trounced their opponents 6-1, 6-2. ­
The team will complete its last game of the fall season this weekend as they play host to the Saint Mary's Invitational. In 1992, as part of the team's move into the NCAA Division III, Saint Mary's will add four weeks to its spring season. 
'Pumped up' volleyball squad presses past Northeastern Illinois, improves record to 5-3 
By LYNNE BRAGG 
Sports Writer 
A pumped-up Saint Mary's volleyball team came out fight­ing Tuesday night to beat Northeastern Illinois University 15-9, 16-14, 15-10 to improve its record to 5-3. completing the sweep. Coach 
The Belles won the first game Sue Medley was very impressed easily, but ran into trouble in with the come-from-behind the second. In that game, the victory in the second game and Belles came back from a 0-8 praised the play of sophomore deficit to pull out the 16-14 Sara Jisa. victory. They then went on to "Getting Sara into the line-up win the third game 15-10, off a shoulder injury was a big 
Florida gets NCAA suspension 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­The University of Florida was placed on NCAA probation for the second time in six years on Thursday, and school officials were upset that the punishment included a postseason ban for this year's football team. 
The NCAA chose to impose less than the m1mmum prescribed penalties in a case of major violations. The bowl ban for this season was the only punishment of the football pro­gram, and there was no ban on television appearances for ei­ther sport. 
The basketball program's scholarships will be restricted, and it must repay at least $287,000 in revenue from the 1988 NCAA tournament be­cause guard Vernon Maxwell played while he was ineligible. The Gators will be permitted 13 scholarships in 1991-92, two fewer than the maximum, and 14 scholarships in 1992-93. 
First-year football coach Steve Spurrier said the bowl ban was a more severe penalty than Florida deserved. 
"This has been a clean-run program in the last four or five years," Spurrier said. "There's been no cash payments, no buying tickets of players, no falsifying of transcripts." 
As part of the ruling, the NCAA cited former basketball coach Norm Sloan and former football coach Galen Hall, both fired last October, for unethical conduct. If either takes a new coaching job in the next five years, his hiring must be approved by the NCAA Committee on Infractions. 
Hall is now an unpaid gradu­ate assistant at Penn State, while Sloan is coaching a pro­fessional team in Greece. 
Chuck Smrt. dirl:lctor of en­forcement for the NCAA, said the case was unique because the school took significant corrective steps after the inves­

Pa11n Dt.ltu, La•nttllu, 1-"rllurin~. MOJtirorll. I'""~ [.loi.:knr Ca~intoro, 0><-ltlrul., &.t-r, IJ'inl', TJ<VVf""' flt><>tn. 
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 

tigation was disclosed. For that reason, Smrt said, the five­member Committee on Infractions did not impose the minimum prescribed penalties. 
The minimum penalties also could have included restrictions on postseason basketball, re­cruiting in both sports and television appearances. 
Florida even faced the remote possibility of having its football and basketball programs shut down by the death penalty. But even though the school escaped severe sanctions, university president John Lombardi took exception to the postseason ban on this year's football team. which is 2-0 and ranked No. 19. 
"We are not entirely com­
The school has 15 days to appeal the sanctions or ask that the ban against the football team be delayed. Neither Lombardi nor athletic director Bill Arnsparger would say whether the school will appeal. 
Spurrier said the football program has been guilty of only one major violation in the past six years -when Hall gave a player $360 to make a child­support paym~nt. For that rea­son, Spurrier said, the school should challenge the NCAA's bowl ban. 
"I strongly recommend we do whatever we can to allow this team to play," he said. "For a former coach allegedly making a child-support payment four plus for us," said Medley. "Her performance really helped us in the middle." 
Seniors Katy Killilea (13 kills, four service aces, nine digs). Sibilsky (13 kills, seven digs, three blocks). sophomores Karen Lorton (ten kills, five service aces. six digs) , Jisa (six kills, ten digs, three blocks} and freshman Michelle Martino (39 assists, seven digs) led the Belles to their impressive vic­tories. Coach Medley also praised the defensive play of freshman Mary O'Malley. 
Rader signs extension 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -The California Angels have been a huge disappointment this sea­son, but apparently the front office doesn't blame Manager Doug Rader. 
Rader signed a two-year ex­tension through 1992 on Thursday after two years working under one-year pacts. 
Last year, the Angels were one of baseball's biggest surprises, finishing third in the AL West with a 91-71 after being in contention almost the entire season. This year has been a different story: The Angels fell out of contention early and are 74-75, 21 games behind the first-place Oakland Athletics, with 13 games to play. 
Management feels confident it's retaining the same Doug Rader who led the Angels to the third-best record in the AL in 1989 -not the one who's had to come up with almost as many starting lineups as games played this year due to an inor­dinate amount of injuries. 
"The strongest trait about Doug Rader is that, more often than not, he'll have the guys in the right frame of mind· and help them get the most out of their abilities," general man­ager Mike Port said. 
fortable with a set of penalties years ago-that's the reason that appear to us to ... penalize this team can't play for all the the innocent for the sins of a marbles any more? We got a prior generation," Lombardi problem with that." said. In 1984, the Florida football 
"This-is particularly difficult program received two years' when you recognize that these probation, lost scholarships and players and these coaches are was banned from appearing in now in the middle of their sea­postseason games and on live son, and these penalties at this television. time in their season appear to The NCAA has imposed sanc­us to be a particularly difficult tions on three other programs blow to accept." this year. Maryland's basketball 
Smrt said the committee has team won't be allowed to wrestled with the issue in the participate in postseason play past. for two years and is forbidden 
"The NCAA is a group of to appear on live television for member institutions," he said. one year. UNLV, the 1990 NCAA "And the penalties run toward champion, won't be allowed to the institutions." compete in postseason play 
Through the efforts of the student government, house phones have been placed in : Cushing, Computer /Math, North Dining Hall, and the Bus stop. 
In the near future, house phones will also be 
placed in Hayes-Healy, and O'Shaughnessy. 

I R I S H 

Series  Notre Dame leads 36-18-1 Irish have won last 3  
Last Game  Notre Dame 21  

Sept. 15 ND 28, Michigan 24 Sept. 22 at Michigan State Sept. 29 Purdue Oct. 6 Stanford Oct. 13 Air Force Oct. 20 Miami Oct. 27 at Pittsburgh Nov. 3 at Navy Nov. 10 at Tennessee Nov. 17 Penn State Nov. 24 at Southern California 
Sept. 15 Michigan State 23, Syracuse 23 Sept. 22 Notre Dame Sept. 29 at Rutgers Oct. 6 IOWA Oet. 13 at Michigan Oct. 20 at Illinois Oct. 27 PURDUE Nov. 3 INDIANA Nov. 10 at Minnesota Nov. 17 Northwestern Nov. 24 WISCONSIN 
GAME NOTES 
•Michigan State finished 8-4 overall in 1989 and tied for third in the Big Ten at 6­
2. The Spartans lost only to Miami, Notre Dame, Michigan and Illinois by a combined total of 21 points and defeated Hawaii 33-13 in the Aloha Bowl. 
•Notre 
Dame has won the past three meetings between the two teams, 12 of the last 14 and 18 of the last 21. The Irish hold a 10-9-1 ed~e at Spartan Stadium. 

•The 
Irish are ;>9-9-3 in games in which they have come into the contest ranked number one by AP. Lou Holtz boasts a 15­1 record as Irish head coach when ranked number one. 

•This 
will mark the sixth time and the second straight season that Michigan State has met a top-ranked Notre Dame team. The Irish are 4-0-1 in those games, the tie (1 0-1 0) coming in 1966 in the fabled "Game of the Century" in East Lansing. 

•Michigan 
State will be looking for its SOOth victory. The Spartans have an all­time record of 499-305-43. 



National Collegiate Notre Dame 1 Sportswriters Poll MSU not ranked 
Michigan State 13 
NO SCHEDULE 

THE GAME 
The Game 
Time TV & Radio 
Tickets AP Rankings 
NotreDame(l-0) at Michigan State(0-0-1) 
3:37 p.m. EDT 
ABC Sports: Keith Jackson Bob Griese Mutual Radio Network: Tony Hoberts, Tom Pagna 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame 1 Michigan State 24 
Running wild 
Culver fills void in life and Irish backfield 

By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz firmly believes that each of his football teams has a distinctive personality. 
When asked to describe this year's Irish squad at Tuesday's press conference, Holtz offered that it had a "lucky" personality-a response which reporters digested with the same grain of salt normally reserved for more evasive answers. 
Then Holtz explained himself. 
"I believe that there is a spiritual feeling at this school, a spiritual peace," said the fifth-year Irish coach. "I think that this school is very lucky. I think good things happen to this school and the people who attend it, and I think good things are meant to happen. I firmly believe that this school has been blessed, and the people associated with it are [blessed]." 
Rodney Culver began counting his blessings early in life. He praised God for giving him the talent to play football. He thanked Him for the opportunity to display his talent. He genuflected in the end zone after every touchdown. 
Yet his spiritual life lacked a certain sense of balance. Culver let God accompany him down the path of success, but he walked the troubled road alone. 
A visit to the doctor's office changed all that. 
"I was sitting in the doctor's office during my junior year in high school," said Culver, "and these doctors and their assistants who were supposed to be specialists were pulling on my [injured] leg. It was really frustrating. 
"But then my mother said, 'Why do you have so little faith? You have to glorify God now because there will be days where you will be back on top again.'" 
Culver fully understood the message. 
"It is because of the goodness of God that we have these talents," he continued. "We have to give Him glory for what we have accomplished. Now I don't get down mentally any more." 
On the surface, Culver seems to have found that "spiritual peace" which Holtz describes as the key to Notre Dame's success both on and off the field. His strong work ethic and career-high 95 yards on 19 carries had far more to do with last Saturday's 28-24 come-from­behind win over Michigan than luck ever did. 
"I didn't know how many carries I had," said the junior fullback. "Coach Holtz thought I was prepared and he just happened to give me the ball more often. 
"It could have been Ricky [Watters], Rocket [Ismail] or Tony [Brooks]. On game day, he just saw it work with me effectively and decided to stay with it." 
Holtz looked to Culver on critical short-yardage situa­tions against Michigan, previously the domain of Anthony Johnson, a second-round draft choice of the Indianapolis Colts. 
When Johnson left Notre Dame at the end of last season, he took with him over 1500 career yards and 32 touchdowns. What he left behind was a star pupil. 
"Anthony Johnson and Tony Rice were both great leaders," said Holtz. "Rodney is a lot like A.J. both as a player and a person. He is really and truly a team player in every sense of the word." 
Said Culver, "A.J. was a great influence on me. He and Tony Rice took to me like I was their brother. Anthony showed me what it takes to go out and do it effectively every day where you're satisfied and the coach is satisfied. 
"I've taken on a key role in leadership this year," Culver continued, "but Coach Holtz doesn't put pressure on me. I put pressure on myself." 
Culver felt the pressure early in his freshman year when high expectations and injuries in the offensive backfield induced him into a move from strong safety to running back. 
Early-season injuries to tailback Brooks and fullbacks Johnson and Braxton Banks prompted a switch first to tailback and then to fullback for the 6-0, 220-pound Culver. 
He responded by rushing for 61 yards on ten carries, including a 36-yard touchdown run against Purdue in his 
The Observer I Kevin Weise 
Notre Dame fullback Rodney Culver gained 95 yards in the season-opener with Michigan last Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. Culver is filling the void left behind by Anthony Johnson, a second-round draft pick of the Indianapolis Colts. 
first collegiate game. Culver quickly became a valuable member of the Irish backfield, rushing 30 times for 195 yards and three touchdowns in Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship season. 
The Sporting News rated Culver one of the top seven freshman running backs in the nation after the '88 season. He made even more believers the following spring when he earned offensive MVP honors in the Blue-Gold game, scoring all three touchdowns in the Blue team's 21-8 win. 
Culver's success continued early into his sophomore campaign when he rushed for a season-high 47 yards on nine carries in Notre Dame's 36-13 victory over Virginia in the Kickoff Classic. But a sudden series of untimely fumbles alarmed Holtz and resulted in considerably less carries for Culver. 
"Rodney showed flashes of brilliance during his freshman year," said Holtz. "But he started last year with fumbles in his first three games, so we didn't see a lot of Rodney Culver until he learned to protect the football." 
Fortunately for Culver, he was blessed with a strong will and a great appreciation for the fundamentals of the game. 
"I didn't understand how to hold the ball," Culver said. "My arm always came away from my body and when I was hit, the ball would come right out. I corrected the problem, and late in the season Coach Holtz just trusted me more with the ball." 
Holtz came to trust Culver so much that he began grooming him as the heir apparent to Johnson's fullback spot early in spring practice. But just when Culver appeared ready to accept the starting assignment, a sprained knee forced him to share time with Kenny Spears. 
While critics questioned his durability, Culver slowly worked his way back into the starting lineup. Today he is undoubtedly Notre Dame's best short-yardage runner, and his surprising quickness (4.3 speed in the 40) enables him to make big plays out of seemingly ordinary gains. 
When the writers of the 1990 Notre Dame football press guide asked Culver what he wo.uld call his biography, he responded with, "All I Needed Was A Chance". He was given that chance last Saturday against Michigan and made the most of it. 
Rer:alling the words of his mother, Rodney Culver is back on top again. He is not alone this time. 
Irish Football '90 
Friday, September 21, 1990
page 2 
Holtz has legitimate worries this time 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz has often been accused of ex­aggerating the strengths of his opponents and the weaknesses of his own teams. His worries entering Saturday's game at Michigan State are legitimate, though. 
Holtz is most concerned about what will happen when his defense takes the field at 3:30 
p.m. in Spartan Stadium in East Lansing. The Irish, who gave up 443 total yards in last week's 28-24 victory over Michigan, will be facing an explosive Spartan offense which features senior quarterback Dan Enos and junior flanker Courtney Hawkins, perhaps the top passer-receiver combination in the Midwest. 
That's not the worst of Holtz's concerns as he enters Spartan Stadium with three straight wins over Michigan State, and 10 straight victories over Big 10 teams under his belt. Holtz will also fret about the prospect of defensing Enos, Hawkins, and Co. without the services of All-
George Perles 
In his eigfith season as Michigan State's head coach, Perles has a record of 46-33-4. He has directed the Spartans to six consecutive winning seasons, the first time that has happened in 36 years. Michigan State has appeared in five bowl games under Perles. 
American cornerback Todd Lyght, who aggravated a hamstring injury on the last play of the first half against Michigan. Lyght did not practice early in the week and Holtz said his status was doubtful for the Michigan State contest. 
Greg Lane, a true freshman, is slated to start in Lyght's place if the senior cornerstone of the Irish secondary is not able to play. 
"It would be asking an awful lot of him to ask him to go out there and perform like Todd Lyght," Holtz says, "but he's a good athlete." 
Lane will line up on Hawkins, while sophomore Reggie Brooks, who intercepted Elvis Grabac's pass late in the game to seal the victory against Michigan, will probably start at the other corner. Senior Greg Davis and junior George Poor­man will start at strong safety and free safety, respectively. 
Spartan coach George Perles will likely try to take advantage of the inexperience of Notre Dame's cornerbacks by having Enos throw to Hawkins (60 
Carlos Jenkins 
A fifth-year senior and third-year starter at outside linebacker, Jenkins has over 200 career tackles. In 1989, he had 75 tackles and was named All Big Ten by AP and UPI and honorable mention by The Sporting News. He had three interceptions ­against Notre Dame, Miami and Hawaii. 
catches for 1080 yards last year, an 18.0-yard average) and split end James Bradley (six catches for 85 yards last week against Syracuse). Enos is a threat to run the ball as well. The All-Big 10 candidate ran for six touchdowns last year in addition to completing 153 of 240 passes for 2066 yards and nine TDs last year. 
"The team should know that with Dan at quarterback, we're never out of a game because he can bring us back in such a short period of time because of his abilities to run the two­minute offense," Perles says. 
The Spartans, who tied Syra­cuse 23-2 3 in their season opener last week, will platoon sophomore Tico Duckett (16 carries for 73 yards against Syracuse) and senior Highland Hickson (19 carries, 87 yards) at tailback. Senior Rob Roy will get the nod at fullback and Du­ane Young will start at tight end. Senior Jeff Pearson, a 6-3, 265-pound transfer from Notre Dame, will snap the ball to Enos and try to get the best of Irish nose tackle Chris Zorich. 
Zorich, a returning All-Amer­ican, will anchor a defensive front seven which will try to put as much pressure as possible on Enos in order to hide the vulnerabilities of the Irish sec­ondary. 6-3, 298-pound senior George Williams and 6-5, 261­pound senior Bob Dahl will join Zorich on the defensive line. 
Sophomore Demetrius Du­Bose and senior Michael Stone­breaker, who contributed eight tackles and a key interception against Michigan, will start at inside linebacker for the Irish. They will share time with senior Donn Grimm, who led Notre Dame with nine tackles last week. Seniors Scott Kowalkowski and Andre Jones will see time at defensive end along with junior Devon Mc­Donald. 
The Irish offense could have a field day against a Spartan de­fense which graduated seven starters, including Butkus Award winner Percy Snow, last year. Notre Dame was more successful than Holtz had antic­ipated against the Michigan de­fense last week, totalling 399 yards. 
Holtz is still not used to hav­ing Rick Mirer at quarterback. Last year, when Tony Rice was the Irish QB. Notre Dame sel­dom threw the ball. Last week, though, Mirer completed 14 of 23 passes for 165 yards and one touchdown. The change of pace gave Holtz, a conservative coach by nature, a few gray hairs. 

The placekicker needed 28 points to become the all-time leading career scoring leader at Michigan Stater heading into this season. He had two field goals against Notre Dame last season. He was honorable mention All Big Ten by AP. 

Photo courtesy Michigan State Sports Information 
Michigan State's Courtney Hawkins is one of the most explosive receivers in the nation. With Irish cornerback Todd Lyght doubtful for Saturday's game, Hawkins could give the Notre Dame secondary some problems. 
"I thought we threw the ball Michigan State's defense will 
73 times," Holtz says. "When be led by senior outside they told me it was (23) I said, linebackers Carlos Jenkins 'You've got to be kidding. I (eight tackles last week) and don't ever remember us throw­Dixon 'Edwards (seven). Fellow 
ing the ball as much as we did seniors Brian Jones, a middle today. It seemed like all we did linebacker, and Mike was call pass patterns.' I was Iaquaniello, a free safety, also rather surprised with it." made big plays against the Or­
Mirer, the sophomore sensa­angemen when they intercepted tion from nearby Goshen, Ind. passes by Syracuse quarterbackwho has been compared to Joe Marvin Graves. 
Montana (whose number he "Michigan State always plays now wears) and pictured on the outstanding defense," Holtz cover of this week's Sports Il­says. "We've always had trou­
lustrated, received rave ble moving the ball on them reviews after completing five of anr' s· ruing many points on six passes on the fourth-quarter them.· drive which put Notre Dame This year could be different. ahead to stay against Michigan. Although the Irish offensive line Holtz just wants Mirer to play is still lacking continuity, Notre within himself. Dame has explosive athletes at "I don't expect him to be out­all of the skill positions. At 
standing or awesome. I just ex­fullback, junior Rodney Culver pect him to be our quarterback. was a pleasant surprise last This is not Rick Mirer's football week, leading all Irish rushers team. This team belongs to the with 95 yards on 19 carries. 
Rocket Ismails and the Mike Seniors Ricky Watters (7 car Heldts and the Ricky Watterses ries for 41 yards) and Tonyand the Derek Browns and the Tony Brookses," Holtz says. see GAME I page 4 




Eric Moten 
A fifth-year senior offensive lineman, he is a candidate for All Big Ten and All America honors. He started all 12 games at left guard in 1989. He was a second team All Big Ten selection by UPI and an honorable mention by AP. 
Jeff Pearson 
The former Notre Dame player, Pearson is in his second and final year as the starting center for the Spartans. He will line up against Notre Dame All-American Chris Zorich. Pearson started all 12 games for Michigan State in 1989 after sitting out in 1988. 

Friday, September 21, 1990 Irish Football '90 
Instant hero Jarrell's winning touchdown catapults him into spotlight 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
Adrian Jarrell deserved to catch Hick Mirer's first colle­giate touchdown pass last Sat­urday, if only because of last year's game against Navy. 
In that match-up, Jarrell took a reception from Mirer to the one yard line, missing by just a few feet what would have been the first scoring completion for the two Notre Dame freshmen. 
Instead, the pair had to wait almost a year, but their timing was right-on. When the tandem finally combined successfully, Jarwll was waiting in the end­zone for Mirer's dramatic, game-winning touchdown pass over fourth-ranked Michigan. 
"I just ran a corner route to the back of the endzone." said Jarrell. "It was up to Rick to pick the receiver. I turned around and the ball was there." 
Jarrell eaught the 18-yard pass right on the numbers and became one of the night's many heroes, a new experience for the sophomore who backs up Hocket Ismail at flanker. But playing behind one of Notre Dame's superstars doesn't bother Jarrell. 
"I don't worry about name n~cognition," he said. "If it comes, fine. I'm more con­eorned with just doing whatever the team needs me to do." 
For thn 6-2, 197 -pound Jar­rell, that means sharing a good deal of playing time with Ismail, blocking downfield and catch­ing the ball when it's thrown his 
SPARTAN STATISTICS 
TEAM. STATISTICS  MSU  
TOTAL OFFENSE  326  
304  
Totel Pleys  69  
Verds per PI ey  47  
Verds per Geme  326  
PENAL T IES-VARDS  11-65  
FUMBLES-LOST  2-0  
THIRD DOWNS-CONV  13-5  
Enos 23 12 .522 155 1 1 23 


POSSESSION TIME 31 12 2646 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
SCORE T D Ru. P Rt PA FG TP 
Bred ley 6 65 14.2 0 23 Lengeloh 0 0 0 0 2 3 11 
Roy 2 26 14.0 0 21 Enos 1 I 0 0 0 0 6 
Duckett 2 19 9.5 1 16 Duckett I 0 I 0 0 0 6 
Hewklns 1 17 17.0 0 17 MSU 2 1 I 0 2 3 23 
Rollin I 6 6.0 0 6 
Opp. 2 1 1 0 2 3 23 MSU 12 155 12.9 1 23 Opponents 13 177 13.6 1 no 
RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Hickson 19 67 4.6 0 14 Duckett 1 6 73 4.6 0 13 
Spartan Offense 
FLANKER 
5 Courtney Hawkins 1 Brian Howard TlGHT ENDf& 29 Duane Young 
fl"' "~"'~~~ ~ ~~=:­
GUARD 68~earson n Eric Mot~n 52 Matt Keller 56 Chris Plwowarczyk 61 Brett Lonus 50 Roosevelt Wagner 
Irish Defense MIDDLE GUARD 
TACKLE 50 Chris Zorich TACKLE 
69 George Williams 68 George Marshall 93 Bob Dahl 
95 Junior Bryant 81 Eric Jones 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
b b b 
37 Scott Kowalkowski ~ 45 Devon McDonald ~ 
INSIDE LINEBACKER~ 
~ 42 Michael Stonebreak ~ 30 Nick: 
CORNERBACK W 
41 Reggie Brooks 
21 Rod Smith FREE SAFETY 27 George Poorman 13 Tom Carter 
TAILBACK 35 Tlco Duckett
~ 30 Hyland Hickson 
FULLBAcK ~ 27RobRoy ~ 2 Tony Rollin 
QUARTERBACK 
SPUTEND 3 James Bradley-4 Dan Enos 17 Mark MacFarlandTACKLE ~ 16 Jim Miller 69 Jim Johnson TACKLE 
way. While he had four re­ceptions for 37 yards in his first season with the Irish, this year Jarrell looks to become a more permanent figure in the Notre Dame offense. 
"I think a year makes a dif­ference," said Jarrell. "I'm catching and blocking better and putting things together on the field. Now going into the game it's 'I'm going to do this,' not 'What am I going to do?' " 
Improving his execution and earning a regular roster spot at flanker was bit of an ad­justment for Jarrell, who was used mainly as a quarterback at Clarke Central High School in Athens, Ga. Catching the ball was just a sometimes job for the all-purpose player who threw for 369 yards and ran for another 466 his senior year. While Jarrell did total 215 yards receiving, he also punted, returned kicks and played de­fense. 
But Jarrell knew that he would mainly play receiver at Notre Dame. He said the change didn't bother him too much, because his 
The Observer I Kevin Weise 
quarterbacking knowledge eventually became an asset at 
Adrian Jarrell (10) celebrates after catching the winning touchdown pass last Saturday against Michigan in the new position. Notre Dame Stad1um. The catch helped the Irish open their season with a 28-24 victory over the Wolverines. 
"At first it was hard looking 
Michigan and Ohio State, thinks 
at things from a different per­
the Irish receiving corps will be
spective, but I think now it 
recognized as one of the best in 
helps me anticipate what will 
the nation by the end of the
happen on the field," he said.· "I 
season.
like having a total picture of 
"People don't look past
everything that's going on so I 
Rocket, because up to now he's
can compensate on my feet if 
done everything," said Jarrell.
something goes wrong." 
But with Mirer developing the
Jarrell, who chose Notre 
Notre Dame passing attack,
Dame over schools such as 
Jarrell anticipates that the rest 
OPP Enos 10 9 .9 1 12 Roy 1 2 2.0 0 2 MSU 46 171 171 1 14 Opponents 37 127 127 1 na 
63 4.6 304 
PASSING C A :l Y D S T D I NT L G 
6-65 
0-0 
MSU 23 12 522 155 1 1 23 
12-4 
Opp. 26 13 .500 177 1 2 na 
A7 Andre Jones 98 Shawn Smittl 
~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 
31 Demetrius DuBose ~36 Donn Grimm ~ 
~ 
CORNERBACK STRONG SAFETY 33 Greg Lane 
26 Greg Davis 21 Rod Smith 29 John Covington TAILBACK 12 Ricky Watters 40 Tony Brooks 
IRISH STATISTICS  
TEAM  STATISTICS  NO  OPP  RUSHING  NO  YDS  A\IG  TO  
Culver  19  95  5.0  I  
TOTAL OFFENSE  399  443  T. Brooks  6  36  4.5  I  
Totol Ploys Yards per Ploy Verds per Gome PENALTIES-YARDS  73 5.3 399 5-31  70 6.3 443 4-31  lsmeil Wolters Mlrer NO  6 7 10 50  50 41 12 234  6.3 5.9 1.2 4.7  0 0 1 3  
FUMBLES-LOST  2-2  2-1  Opp.  40  253  6.3  I  
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  23  22  
By Rushing By Passing By Penol ty THIRD DOWNS-CONV.  15 6 0 6-14  13 9 0 3-11  PASSING Mlrer NO  C 14 1 4  A 23 23  :l Y D S .609 165 609 165  T D I NT 1 I I 1  
~  .571  .. 272  Opp.  17  30  .566  190  2  2  
POSSESSION TIME  30:27  29 33  
Per Gome  30:27  29 33  RECEIVING  NO  YDS  A\IG  TO  
lsmoll  4  42  I 0.5  0  
SCORING  TO  R  P  R  PA  FG  TP  T. Smith  3  24  6.0  0  
Culver  1  1  0  0  0-0  0-0  6  Jerrell  2  26  13.0  1  
T. Brooks  1  1  o.  0  0-0  0-0  6  Culver  2  B  4.0  0  
Mirer  I  I  0  I  0-0  0-0  6  Dowson  I  45  45.0  0  
Jorrell  1  0  1  0  0-0  0-0  6  Welters  1  17  17.0  0  
Hentr1ch  o  0  0  0  4-4  0-0  4  Brown  1  3  3.0  0  

Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 5 Rodney Culver 35 Ryan Mlhalko FLANKER 
SPLITEND
25 Raghib Ismail 
QUARTERBACK 83Tony Sm~h10 Adrian Jarrell 3 RlckMirer 87 Lake Dawson
TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 15 Kevin McDougal (\ 86 Derek Brown 65 Lindsay Knapp TACKLE {fl"'"" 84 lrv Smith 73 Justin Hall 76 ~ne McGuire
p64 Pater Rausch
PPPPP 
GUARD =RHeldt GUARD 74 M. Jurkovlc 61 Tim Ruddy 52 Tim Ryan 72Joe Allen 79 Brat Hanklns 
LEFT TACKLE RIGHT TACKLESpartan Defense 97 Bobby Wilson 74 William Reese 
RIGHT END LEFT END ,~~ ~~~~ 96 Bill Johnson 
62 Cliff Confer 93 Mike Edwards 84 John MacNeill 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKEROUTSIDE LINEBACKER 57 Olxon Edwards51 Carlos Jenklns 98 Ernest Steward 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 83 Rob Frederickson 
MIDDLE LINEBACKER 32 Brian Jones 
w 
41 Chuck Bullough w 
CORNERBACK 20 Todd Murray 
CORNERBACK FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 23 Alan Hailer18 Corey Pryor 
44 Mike laquaniello 19 Freddie Wilson 8 Eddie Brown 33 Brian Vooletich 24 Myron Bell 
of the receivers will have a hopes the team's confidence on chance to shine. the field continues. "Rick's a solid player, very "We weren't at all nervous in consistent," he said. the huddle," Jarrell said of the 
Jarrell and the rest of the game-winning drive. "We were Irish catching crew will have going to win the game, you another chance to excel this could feel it." Saturday when Notre Dame Jarrell and the rest of the faces Michigan State. And while Irish offense hope that feeling Jarrell does not aspire to be the continues this weekend and for hero every week, he said he the rest of the 1990 season. 
LG 20 
6 
35 16 
6 
35 24 
L G 
45 
45 
44 
LG 
14 
13 
16 
6 45 17 
3 
-
·-·~ 
-
--

Irish Football '90
-

FOOTBALL SCHEDULES · 
Florida A&M (1-1) vs. Tennessee St. (1-2) at Atlanta, Night Florida St. (2-0) at Tulane (2-1), Night 
This weekend's college football schedule: LSU (2-0) at Vanderbilt (0-1 ), NightSaturday, Sept. 22 South Carolina (2-0) at Virginia Tech (2-1)EAST East Tennessee St. (0-3) at Western Carolina (1-2) VMI (2-1) at Army (1-0) Connecticut (0-2) at William & Mary (1-1) Columbia (0-1) at Bucknell (1-1) MIDWESTCornell (1-0) at Colgate (1-1) Fullerton St. (1-2) at Akron (2-0-1)Lehigh (2-0) at Dartmouth (0-1) Toledo (2-0) at Ball St. (1-1)West Chester (1-1) at Delaware (1-1) Bowling Green (1-1) at Central Michigan (1-1-1) Northeastern (0-2) at Harvard ( 1-0) 
Miami. Ohio (0-3) at Cincinnati (0-3) Villanova ( 1-1) at Navy ( 1-1) 
New Hampshire (2-0) at Maine (0-2) Southern Illinois (2-1) at Illinois (1-1) 
Missouri-Rolla (0-3) at Illinois St. (0-3)Holy Cross (0-1-1) at Penn (1-0) Missouri (1-1) at Indiana (1-0) Rutgers (2-0) at Penn St. (0-2) Iowa St. (1-1) at Iowa (1-0) Fordham (0-2) at Princeton (0-1) UCLA (1-1) at Michigan (0-1) Brown (0-1) at Rhode Island (2-0) Notre Dame (1-0) at Michigan St. (0-0-1)Pittsburgh (2-1) at Syracuse (1-1-1) Kansas St. (2-0) at Northern Illinois (1-2), Night Louisville (2-0-1) at West Virginia ( 1-1) Minnesota (1-1) at Nebraska (2-0) Lafayette (1-1) at Yale (1-0) Tennessee Tech (2-1) at Ohio U. (0-2) SOUTH 
Indiana St. (1-2) at Purdue (0-1) Marshall (2-0) at Citadel (1-1) 
Texas Southern (3-0) at Alabama St. (1-1-1 ), Night Austin Peay (0-2) at Southwest Missouri St. (2-1), Night 
Kent St. (0-2) at Western Michigan (1-1) Appalachian St. ( 1-1) at Clemson (2-1) Temple (1-2) at Wisconsin (1-1)Towson St. (0-2) at Delaware St. (1-1) 
Eastern Michigan (2-1) at Youngstown St. (3-0), Night Furman (3-0) at Florida (2-0) 
Virginia (3-0) at Duke (1-1) 
SOUTHWEST Alabama (0-2) at Georgia (1-1) 
Alcorn St. (0-3) at Arkansas-Pine Bluff (1-0) Eastern Kentucky (2-0) at Georgia Southern (1-2) 
Mississippi (1-1) at Arkansas (1-0), Night 
Sam Houston St. (1-1) at Baylor (0-2), Night Tennessee-Chattanooga (1-1) at Georgia Tech (1-0) Tulsa (1-2) at Oklahoma (2-0) Hampton U. (1-2) vs. Grambling St. (2-0) at East Rutherford, Northwestern (0-1) at Rice (1-1), Night N.J., Night 
Colorado (1-1-1) at Texas (1-0), Night Morehead St. (1-2) at Liberty (3-0), Night 
Mississippi Valley St. (1-2) at Jackson St. (2-1), Night 
North Texas (2-0) at Texas A&M (2-0), Night Arkansas St. (1-1-1) at Louisiana Tech (1-2), Night 
Oklahoma St. (2-1) at Texas Christian (1-1), Night 
FAR WEST North Carolina St. (2-1) at Maryland (2-1) Oregon (2-0) at Arizona (2-0), Night Central Florida (2-1) at Memphis St. (0-1-1), Night Boston U. (1-2) at Boise St. (2-1), Night Western Kentucky (2-0) at Middle Tennessee (3-0), Night San Diego St. (1-1) at Brigham Young (3-0) Southern Mississippi (2-1) at Mississippi St. (1-1), Night Texas-EI Paso (1-2) at Colorado St. (2-1)Eastern Illinois (1-2) at Murray St. (0-2), Night New Mexico St. (0-3) at Fresno St. (3-0), Night Morgan St. (0-3) at North Carolina A& T (3-0) Weber St. (2-1) at Idaho (1-2) Southwest Texas St. (1-2) at NE Louisiana (1-1), Night Northern Iowa (1-2) at Idaho St. (1-1), Night East Texas St. (2-1) at NW Louisiana (0-2), Night Pacific U. (1-2) at Long Beach St. (0-3) Stephen F. Austin (0-2) at Nicholls St. (2-1), Night McNeese St. (1-2) at Montana (2-0) Kentucky (1-2) at North Carolina (2-1) 
Nevada (2-0) at Montana St. (2-1) Howard U. (2-0) at South Carolina St. (1-1) 
James Madison (0-2) at Richmond (0-2) Eastern Washington (2-0) at Northern Arizona ( 1-1) 
Texas Tech (0-2) at New Mexico (1-2) East Carolina (1-2) at SW Louisiana (2-1), Night 
-
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, Bill Bilinski of The South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records 



KenTyslac Scott Brutocao Chris are compiled as to how each Associate Assistant Assistant 
person does against the spread. 
Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 9-3-2 9-3-2 8-4-2 
MICHIGAN 13.5 over Ucla Wolverines Bruins Wolverines 
USC 5 over WASHINGTON Trojans Trojans Trojans 
Virginia 16 over DUKE Cavaliers Cavaliers Blue Devils 
Syracuse even PITT Panthers Panthers Panthers 
Alabama 1 over GEORGIA Bulldogs Crimson Tide Crimson Tide 
Colorado 6.5 over TEXAS Longhorns Longhorns Buffaloes 
ARIZONA 6.5 over Oregon Ducks Wildcats Ducks Florida St 27 over TULANE Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles 
MARYLAND 2.5 over NC State Terrapins Terrapins Terrapins
-ARKANSAS 12.5 over Miss. Razorbacks Razorbacks Bulldogs 
W. VIRGINIA 2 over Louisville Cardinals Mountaineers Mountaineers STANFORD 26 over Oregon St Beavers Beavers Cardinal WYOMING 10 over Air Force Falcons Falcons Falcons Notre Dame 6 over Mich. St Irish Irish Irish 
............. 
Friday, September 21, 1990 
Notre Dame assumes top spot in college poll 
The National Collegiate Sportswriters 
Observer Staff Report 
Poll with first-place votes in parentheses. records and total points.
Notre Dame is the new top 
1 . Notre Dame (23) 1-0 569 
team in the National College 
2. Florida St. (4) 2-0 509 
3. Auburn (1) 2-0 464 4. Brigham Young (1) 3-0 428 
Sportswriters Poll released 
earlier this week. 
5. usc 2-0 428
The Irish, 28-24 winners over 
6. Tennessee 3-0-1 410
Michigan last Saturday, 
7. Michigan 0-1 371 
received 23 first-place votes 
8. Miami 1-1 361 9. Virginia 3-0 349 10. Nebraska 2-0 339 
and 569 total points in the poll. 
They were second in last week's 
11. Oklahoma 2-0 301
poll. 
12. Texas A&M 2-0 256
Florida State, last week's top 
13. Arkansas 1-0 184 
team, dropped to second with 
14. Colorado 1-1-1 150 15. Ohio State 2-0 146 16. Clemson 2-1 134 
four first-place votes and 545 
total points. The Seminoles, 2­
17. Illinois 1-1 121
0, will play Tulane on Saturday. 
18. Florida 2-0 101
Auburn remained at number­
19. Houston 2-0 92 
three after beating Mississippi 
20. Arizona 2-0 75 
last weekend to up its record to 2-0. Brigham Young, 3-0, is ranked fourth and received one Wolverines will try to get their first-place vote. The Cougars first win on Saturday against host San Diego State on UCLA. Virginia will put its Saturday. perfect 3-0 record on the line 
Southern California rounds when it travels to Duke. out the top five after last weekend's victory over Penn Oklahoma is 11th followed by State. The Trojans travel to Texas A&M, Arkansas, Washington on Saturday. Colorado and Ohio State. 
Tennessee, 3-0-1, is sixth Rounding out the Top 20 are followed by Michigan, Miami, Clemson, Illinois, Florida, Virginia and Nebraska. The Houston and Arizona. 
Game 
continued from page 2 
Brooks (8 carries for 36 yards) will share time at tailback. Watters may also spend some time split out as a receiver like he did last week as the Irish continue to take advantage of Mirer's passing prowess. 
Heisman Trophy candidate Raghib Ismail, who caught four passes for 42 yards and rushed six times for 50 yards against the Wolverines, will start at flanker. The versatile Ismail will also return kickoffs and punts for the Irish. 
Don't expect the Spartans to kick the ball to Ismail, though. The Michigan State coaching staff has great respect for the explosive junior from Wilkes­Barre, Pa. who has returned four kickoffs and one punt for touchdowns in his collegiate career. 
"We're going to kick away from him," Perles states curtly. 
Michigan State placekicker John Langeloh, who became the Spartans' all-time field goal leader when he knocked three kicks through the uprights last week against Syracuse, could figure prominently in the game. 6-5, 246 pound Josh Butland will handle the punting chores for Perles. 
Sophomore Craig Hentrich, meanwhile, will handle the placekicking and punting duties for the Irish. Holtz was disap­pointed with his squad's punt­ing game against Michigan, but Hentrich was an outstanding punter as a freshman and he is likely to revert to form against the Spartans. 
The final important factors in the game will be the artificial turf and the home-field advan­tage, which both favor the Spartans. 
"The hitting is usually much harder on Astroturf than it is on grass because you get better traction and the game is much on Astroturf than it is on grass," Holtz says. "Backs make cuts on Astroturf that you don't see on grass, and it always concerns me going from grass to Astroturf." 
And the home field advan­tijge? 
"You've heard me say many times that when you go on the road you better pack your de­fense, your discipline, your kicking game, your quickness and your togetherness or you don't have a chance." 
If the Irish secondary doesn't come together, the Spartans may be the ones who have a chance to score a lot of points 


r" J
,,.::._~$. 
Frank astor Tony Rice 
Associate South Bend Former NO Sports Editor Tribune quarterback6-6-2 6-6-2 4-8-2 
Wolverines Bruins Wolverines Wolverines Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Panthers Panthers Panthers Orangemen 
Crimson Tide Bulldogs Crimson Tide Bulldogs Longhorns Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes 
Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Ducks Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Terrapins Wolfpack Terrapins Wolfpack Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks 
Cardinals Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Beavers Beavers Beavers Cardinal Cowboys Falcons Cowboys Cowboys 
Irish Irish Irish Irish 

-
Friday, September 21, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD ·"' 
Friday 
4:30 
p.m. Lecture: "Faults in the Mojave Desert as re­vealed on Enhanced Landsat Images," John Ford. Earth Science Room 101. Sponsored by the Department of Earth Sciences. 

4:30 
p.m. Mathematical Colloquium: "Intrinsic Limita­tions of the Extraction of Useful Work from Heat Engines."Mathematics Building 201. Speaker J.R. Senft from the University -of Wisconsin River Falls. Sponsored by Department of Mathematics. 


6:30, 8:15, 10 p.m. Film: "Roger and Me." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Turkey Tettrazini Fried Fish Boats Broiled Haddock French Bread Cheese Pizza 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
ACROSS 26Authorof 48 Composer of "Swann's Way" • "Symphonie
1 Violins' espagnole"
precursors 28 Nothing more than 49 Healthy
1 Escort elasticity29 Gets on the 
12 Hodgepodge 
Yankee Clipper 51 Horse-and­13 Crueler donkey hybrid 
31 Boxing-match 15 Lasting forever units 52 Of the kidneys 
53 Minutemen and 16 Promptly 33 Spheres 
Redcoats, e.g. 18 These marched 
34 Vendetta 55 Do a job foragainst polio 35 Greet 
Disney 19 Scampered 38 Bed-and­
57 Thirstiest 21 Kind of bank 
breakfast guests 
58 Disproves 42 Cabal
22 Mingo of TV's 59 Digress "Daniel Boone" 43 Initiates 
so Become irate 23 --of Rights 45 Convened 
24 Silence 46 Governor 
DOWN
Hogg's
25 "-Without Women'': 1 Regulated diet 
daughter 
Hemingway 47 Teases 21ndium or osmium 
3 Large bundles ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Compass pts. 
5 Metric wt. units 6 Roger-, U.S. composer: 1896-1985 
7 Inflorescence types BSow 9 Shako or dicer 
11 Rhine bridge crossing: WW. II 
Butterfly 14 Delay 
17Wise men 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

20 Also 23 Suborns 26 Separate 21 Entertains 28 Players' 
Tournament 
winner: 1989 30 Debacle 32 Due to us 34 Ancestors 
35 Ill wi II 36 Marzipan nut 37 Bankers, at 
times 
SPELUNKER 
38 Kettle handle 39 Come forth 40 Consanguine­
ous 41 Boas 44 Reliable 48 Nocturnal 
mammal of Madagascar 
50 Send forth 51 Louis L'Amour's "The Haunted 
" 52 Prevalent 54 Comparative 
suffix 
56 Rosalyn Carter, --Smith 



MOVIES "STEEL MAGNOLIAS" "THE MEANING OF LIFE" 


S:(Q)(Q) AND ~ (Q) :(Q)(Q) P. M. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION : $2.00 
• 
-.. 

Sports
page 24 Friday, September 21, 1990 
Women's soccer heading north 
Irish to face Michigan State, Marquette this weekend 
By DAVE DIETEMAN that the game will be a good reputation of the Lady challenge for our frontrunners Warriors, Notre Dame has no
Sports Writer 
who have been playing very intentions of doing anything well recently. We will see what but winning two games this
The Notre Dame women's 
we can do against a step up in weekend. Key to the Irish game 
soccer team journeys north­
competition." plan will be the consistent play ward this weekend for key re­
The Irish then face of the defense, which hasgional matchups with the 
Marquette on Sunday morning recorded two consecutiveMichigan State Spartans and at 10:45 a.m. shutouts.
Marquette Lady Warriors. 
Marquette, unlike Michigan "All year long our goal going This afternoon at 2 p.m., the State, is a club team. Because into every game is to get a
Irish (4-2) face the mighty 
of this status, a paucity of shutout," explained Petrucelli.
Spartans, who are ranked sixth 
scouting information on "That is our goal because I
in the Midwest. In their last 
Marquette is available. But know that our kids up front cangame, the Spartans (2-2) fell 1­Marquette is a well-organized, score. If we can get a shutout0 to Colorado College, the 1989 highly competitive club team. every time out, then we will not national runner-up in Division In fact, Marquette owns a 2-0 lose a game. This is aI. Michigan State owns a 1-0 advantage in the lifetime series legitimate goal, but it will also
advantage in .the adolescent 
after trouncing the Irish 3-0 provide a very tough test be­series with Notre Dame. 
last season. Notre Dame only cause of all the freshmanIn Michigan State's season managed four shots on goal in which we have on the field." 
opener, the Spartans dis­
that game. In their last two games, the
patched Canisius College of 
"Marquette is a very strong Irish defense has performed
Buffalo 4-0, outshooting the 
club team," emphasized with the accuracy of a sniper
Lady Griffins 39-2. Among the 
Petrucelli. "They are maybe on and the effectiveness of aplayers to watch on the high­
a different level than most wrecking ball, dominating
powered Spartan offense are 
clubs. They defend very well, opposing offenses. Againstjunior forward Kate Ferguson, and they have been a team that Washington University, Notresenior forward Emily Coatney, 
Notre Dame has had trouble Dame surrendered only one
sophomore midfielder Yolanda 
figuring out in the past. It is shot on goal, while giving up
Marino, and freshman mid­
frustrating trying to get scout­two shots against Valparaiso.
fielder Margaret Martin. The 
ing reports in women's soccer In those two games, the Irish
Michigan State goalkeeper, 
in general, but especially frus­fired off 51 shots of their own.
sophomore Andrea Gerbi, also trating when it comes to "It will be important for us topromises to give the Irish fits. 
Marquette." defend well," said Petrucelli.
"Michigan State defends very Yet despite the seemingly "We may do something differ-
well," noted Notre Dame head The Observer I Ken Osgood 
awesome power of the
coach Chris Petrucelli. "I think The Notre Dame women's soccer team takes its 4-2 record on the road
see WOMEN I page 20 
Spartans and the amorphous 
this weekend against Michigan State and Marquette. 
Volleyball 
Next few games vital attempts to 
for men's soccer tone 
set tone 
their games. The Spartan's offense has also 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
been high-powered this season,
for season 
outscoring its opponents 11-3.
The Notre Dame men's soccer Carl Hopfinger has scored three
team lost to one team and tied
By MIKE KAMRADT goals, and Mike Rawlins has
another it should have beaten 
Sports Writer been potent, scoring two goals
in the last week, and the next and delivering three assists.
few games will be critical while 
This weekend's Rhode Island The Irish have owned the
they struggle to find the right
Tournament will go a long way series with Michigan State,
combination to get the team 
to determine the tone for the holding a 5-1-3 all-time record
clicking.
rest of the women's volleyball against it. Last season Notre
Tonight they travel to East
team's season, as the Irish face Dame beat the Spartans 4-1 at
Lansing, Mich., to face
Rhode Island, Syracuse and Krause Stadium, and, in the
Michigan State. The Spartans
Canada's Sherbrooke. team's last meeting in East
are 4-0 on the season, 1-0 in
Win the tourney and the Irish Lansing in 1988. the Irish won
the MCC, with one win coming
come into next weekend's big 5-0. The last and only time MSU
against Detroit, a team which
match with pre-season number defeated Notre Dame was in
defeated the Irish Wednesday
13 Penn State with a full head 1986, when the Spartans
night.
of steam. prevailed 1-0. 
Michigan State's defense has
Have a poor showing, like Notre Dame travels to
been spartan, to say the least.
this season's opening tourna­Milwaukee Sunday to face the
They come into the game with a 
ment, and the season could Marquette Warriors. The Irish
take off like a wounded bird. 
average, and have not allowed
The biggest question is, 
more than one goal in any of
which Irish team will show up? see MEN I page 20 

The one that swept to the championship of the Notre Dame Invitational or the one that lost to an unheralded Kentucky squad last weekend? 
"The consistency is not there yet," stated Head Coach Art Lambert. 
None of the teams the Irish 
.. will face this weekend is a powerhouse. The Irish defeated Rhode Island in four games (15-0,15-3,13-15,15-6) last year at the Joyce Center. The game the Irish lost in that match most likely had a young, 
The Observer I John Cluver 
Tracy Shelton {slamming ball) and the volleyball team travel to Rhode
inexperienced team on the 
Island for an invitational in which the Irish are looking for consistency. 
floor. The Irish starters should 
have no such trouble. 4 thus far. That ledger includes block better. A setter must 
The Irish haven't met the no teams in the Top 20. The emerge and the hitting must be Orangewomen of Syracuse Irish, who aspire to be a Top-20 consistent game-in, game-out. since 1981, their second year team themselves, still must play Bu~ all that will come. as a varsity team. As for eight teams in the preseason Canada's Sherbrooke, the Irish Top 20. What remains to be seen is if have never met them. The question really isn't a the Irish have the internal 
physical one with the Irish. makeup, the mental toughness 
The most prevalent concern Sure, Jessica Fiebelkorn and to turn things around. This for Irish players and fans is Molly Stark must improve on weekend would be as good a that the Irish are a mediocre 4-the middle attack as well as start as any. 
Tennis hosts Invitational 
By DAVE McMAHON DiLucia, playing at number­Sports Writer one singles, returns to the lineup this weekend after The Notre Dame men's sitting out the first tourna­tennis team will play host to ment of the fall season. the fourth annual Tom Chuck Coleman will play at Fallon Invitational Friday, two singles, while Mark Saturday, and Sunday at Schmidt will round out the the Coutrney Courts. "A" flight. At AnnapolisAfter a performance last last weekend, Schmidt week at the Navy placed fifth in the number­
Invitational that left coach two flight. Bob Bayliss still searching "I was a little bit disap­
for a starters at vitually pointed in several of our every position, the Irish players' performances,"hope to improve on their Bayliss said. "Our doubles last outing. were not as good as they
"We lost a lot of clos'e should have been, but we 
matches, which was a con­threw in several untested cern to me,"said Bayliss. teams and it showed. Right"Some of our guys were now we just need to get on 
rusty competitively from the courts and play." not playing over the summer." 
Irish All-American David see FALLON I page 20 
l. 

