
VOL. XXIII NO. 107 TUESDAY , MARCH 20. 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Guam law makes abortion a felony 
M;ANA. (;uam (API -A bill eral Legislature unanimously creating the most restrictive approved the bill March 8 after 
U.S. abortion statute was Archbishop Anthony Apuron sigrwd into law Monday by the threatened in an interview with territorial governor. The mea­a television reporter to excom­sure was hailed by anti-abor­municate any Roman Catholic tion forces. but civil libertari­senator who voted against it. ans promised to light it. All but one of the senators is 
"In my heart, I believe that a Catholic, as is Ada. However, fetus is a human being," most of the senators said they Hnpublican Gov. Joseph Ada were unaware of the threat. said in signing the bill, which Territorial Attorney General prohibits abortion except when Elizabeth Barrett-Anderson is­the motht~r·s health or life are sued an opinion Feb. 26 that tmdangered. the bill was unconstitutional 
The law. which passed despite because it violates a woman's a ruling by Guam's attorney constitutional right to privacy. gerwral that it is unconstitu­Both sides of the abortion tional. makes it a third-degree debate agree the new law could felony for a person to perform provide a direct challenge to or help in an abortion. Seeking the U.S. Supreme Court's 1973 or having an abortion or solic­landmark Hoe vs. Wade deci­iting someone to have an abor­sion legalizing abortion on pri­tion are misdemeanors. vacy grounds. 
The law also sets a referen­The new statute can't co-exist dum during the Nov. 6 general with Roe vs. Wade, said Janet election for residents of this Benshoof, director of the Pacific Ocean island about American Civil Liberties Union's 
1.500 miles cast of the Philip­Reproductive Freedom Project. pines to decide whether to keep Roland Rivera, vice president the law. of the anti-abortion Guamani­
In another development in the ans United for Life, said the abortion war, an agreement to law "is the ice pick that's going end a live-day anti-abortion fil­to chip away at the big block of ibuster in the Maryland Senate ice" that is Roe vs. Wade. apparently unraveled. Both Benshoof said she immedi­sides held firm in the debate ately violated a provision of the 
over a bill to guarantee the law by advising women in a 
right to an abortion in that speech at the Guam Press Club 
state. later Monday where to go to 
And, in Idaho, Democratic obtain a lel!al abortion. Gov. Cecil Andrus reaffirmed "I was very specific in my his anti-abortion stance but de­breaking of the law," Benshoof clined to say what he would do told the Associated Press in a 
about a bill setting tough re­phone interview. "I said women 
strictions on abortions. The should go to Honolulu to have 
House-approved bill is sched­an abortion and gave the ad­
uled for a final vote in the Sen­
dress of the Planned Parent-ate on Wednesday. 
see ABORTION I page 4

Guam's 21-member unicam-

AP Photo 

Heavy artillery 
Indian soldiers Sunday board a ship at the port in eastern Trinco­malee town, which will take them home. The troops, scheduled to be completely withdrawn by March 24, are returning after 2 112 years of unsuccessful military operations against Tamil militants. 

AP Photo 


Way to go champ 
Lothar de Maiziera, chairman of Christian Democrats, makes a fist when he is informed about his elec­tion victory in East Berlin Sunday. The elections were the first democratic elections in East Germany. 

Tyson lifts Mexico trips ban 
By SANDRA WIEGAND Assistant News Editor  Student Activities will make de­cisions based on "health,  dent Activities. It is the respon­sibility of Student Government  
safety, and liability issues," he  and the Student Union Board  
The ban on student trips to  said.  (SUB)  to  have their trips ap­ 
Mexico has been lifted by Fa­ He  said  that the  language  proved  before  cont~cting  a  
ther David Tyson, Vice Presi­ barrier and personal cost are  travel agent, he said, to avoid a  
dent for Student Affairs.  not  adequate  reasons  to  ban  situation which forces Student  
Tyson sent a letter to Stu­dent Body President Matt Bres­lin, in response to a recent  trips, but health and safety is­sues are. The forum of Student Activi­ Activities stance."  to  take  a  "reactive  
Campus Life Council resolution which asked that the Mexico  ties, Tyson said, "should afford more than adequate input by  "Since the institution requires and collects fees paid by stu­ 
ban be dropped. Tyson said that trips to Mex­ico will be assessed on an indi­ the sponsoring student group." Tyson said he found it "somewhat inconceivable" that  dents, which are primarily ad­ministered by SUB and Student Government, sponsorship by  
vidual basis and students will  there is a lack of communica­ 
have  input  in  the  decisions.  tion between students and Stu- see MEXICO I page 4  

Trial begins today for Imelda Marcos, accused of stealing more than $100 mil. 
NEW YORK (AP) -While 
the Swiss government agreed to 
Imelda Marcos has drawn the extradite him only on the last 
most attention in the weeks two charges. 
leading up to the start of her He faces up to five years in 
trial Tuesday, her co-defendant, jail and a $250,000 line on each 
Adnan Khashoggi, is hardly a of the two charges of mail 
minor player. fraud and obstruction of jus­
Once reputed to be the tice. world's richest man, the 54-Mrs. Marcos' attorney, Gerald 
year-old Saudi financier is said Spence, said Monday he might 
to have been the main financier subpoena former president
and middleman of the Iran­Ronald Reagan to testify for 
Contra affair, in which pro­Mrs. Marcos. 
ceeds of illegal U.S. arms sales "Certainly the former presi­
to Iran went to rebels fighting dent is a potential witness in 
the Nicaraguan government. Imelda Marcos the case depending on what the 
Khashoggi's lawyers say his Aspen, Colo., and Florida. He prosecution's proof is," he holdings have diminished in re­wears an electronic bracelet to said. "The former president cent years, but don't dispute alert authorities if he ventures and Nancy Reagan were friends that he's still a millionaire sev­beyond a prescribed distance. of the Marcoses." 
eral times over. The trial of Khashoggi and Reagan fought a subpoena to 
Extradited from Switzerland Mrs. Marcos begins Tuesday testify for the prosecution at on July 19, Khashoggi posted with jury selection. Both have the trial of former national se­$10 million bail so he could live pleaded innocent. curity adviser John Poindexter, in his luxury apartment on The Marcoses were accused who faces charges stemmingFifth Avenue. He promised to of stealing more than $100 from the Iran-Contra affair. stay in the country to face million from the Philippine But the judge ordered Reagancharges that he helped Mrs. treasury to buy real estate and to give a sworn videotapedMarcos and her late husband, art in New York. Ferdinand statement. deposed President Ferdinand Marcos died Sept. 28 in exile in Reagan and his press secre­Marcos, defraud the Philippine Hawaii. tary were traveling Tuesday treasury. Khashoggi, who allegedly and not available for comment, 
Khashoggi has been seen posed as the owner of some of Reagan's office in Los Angelesdining in the city's most expen­the assets as a cover, was in­said. 
sive restaurants and has taken dicted on charges of racketeer­Mrs. Marcos is accused of trips with the court's permis­ing, conspiracy, mail fraud and taking part in the illegal trans­sion to Southern California, obstruction of justice. However, fer of more than $160 million. 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 20, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 20. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Editor's job the 
stuff dreams 

are made of 
Last night former Observer editors came to me in a drnam. "Alison." they said, looking sorrowfully at me, "the AP wire is down, the band building is missing Alison Cocks and security refuses Editor-in-Chief 
to confirm whether 
an investigation of --------­the incident is being launched, the typesetter won't typeset and all the locks have been changed on the office doors." 
So what's the problem? 
"Now you have to handle everything. And put out a 16-page forum for student thought with objective news coverage, thought-provoking Viewpoint pieces, enter­taining features and the sports coverage ev­eryone loves by tomorrow morning." 

Great. Is that all? 
"No. You also have to oversee the sale of ads to offset costs, make sure the Classi­lieds program is functioning, kick the com­puters when there are system errors and field calls from irate officers of the "Abortion Rights for Wives of Oppressed Aborigines Coalition." 
Do I get any help? 
"Remember the competent staff you hired before Spring Break? They'll put their con­siderable talents to work to help you main­tain your sanity. Don't forget, if it weren't for them you'd be laying out the paper by yourself until 5 a.m." 
True. So I have to act calmly and ra­tionally, maintain my cheerful disposition through every disaster, keep the staff happy and motivated and continue to improve the end product. Anything else? 
"Don't forget the most important people of all." Who? The administration? The alumni? My family? 
"The readers. Primarily the students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The easiest thing for them to do is to put down The Ob­server and discuss the state of the salad bar. Your job is to make them want to keep reading about events on both campuses." 
Any suggestions'! 
"You can start by being receptive to the input of the public. If they pick up the paper and read it with inquisitive, open minds they are qualified to eomment. Even if they don't realize what goes into producing a daily newspaper doesn't mean their criticisms aren't somewhat valid. You can't please ev­eryone, but you can at least try to satisfy the majority of them." 
(Sigh) I suppose I also have to take classes, eat meals, sleep and call home once in awhile? 
"That would be nice." 
Is that all or can I do anything else? 
"We could use someone to jump over the 
moon." 
No, thanks, I'll stick with the task at hand 
for now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Yesterday's high: 2 8 Yesterday's low: 23 
Nation's high: 96 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 0 
(Hibbing and Interna­
tional Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: Sunny and warmer today with high temperatures between 40 and 45. Lows tonight around 30. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the 50s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure 
X

® © ITill ~ m 0 EZ] 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Business Majors Baxter Healthcare will give a Of Interests submissions are accepted at presentation today at 4:15 p.m. in 222 Hayes-Healy Cen­The Observer to publicize one-time free events of general ter. A Student Union Board reception will follow. interest. Deadlines are 1 p.m. 
WORLD 
Assailants strolled into an ice cream parlor in a northwestern Colombian town yesterday and sprayed it with gunfire, killing six people and wounding four, police said Monday. Authorities were trying to determine the identities of the gunmen and the motive for the shooting late Sunday in Apartado, 280 miles north of Bogota, a police statement said. It said most victims were workers on the banana plantations that cover the Uraba region on the border with Panama. 
The British government said Monday it is setting up a special war crimes unit of police officers to investigate alleged World War II atrocities committed by people now living in England. Home Secretary David Waddington said the Bri'tish police had never investigated war crimes before and the unit would work in the same way the police investigated "any other criminal activi­ties." lie said police, legal authorities and the courts would have the responsibility for prosecutions, trials and convictions and the government would not interfere. 
Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa of Syria met with President Hashemi Hafsanjani of Iran on Mon­day and Hafsanjani stressed Iran's support for Syria in its confrontation with Israel, Tehran radio said. Sharaa emphasized the close relations between Syria and Iran. Iran's official Islamic Hepublic News Agency said Sharaa discussed Palestine, Lebanon and other subjects with Ira­nian officials during his visit to Iran. But it did not men­tion the issue of Western hostages in Lebanon. 
Romanians in Bucharest attacked an ethnic Hungarian political association headquarters on Monday and the government appealed to thn military to help con­trol the situation. a member of Parliament rPported. lie quoted interim President lon Iliescu as saying etlmie Ho­manians from villages near Tirgu Mures went to that the ethnically mixed. northwestern city and attacked head­quarters of the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Ho­mania with axes. Mircea Dinescu, president of the Homa­nian Writers' Union. said lliescu confirmed reports of the raid to him and that lliescu asked the army for help. 
NATIONAL 
Walter Mack, who rescued a largely unknown Pepsi-Cola Co. during the Depression and turned it into the country's No. 2 soft drink maker, died Sunday after a lengthy illness at age 94. Mack ran unsuccessfully for the New York state Senate in 1932 and worked on Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia's mayoral 

campaigns. He also served as chairman of the New York County Republican Committee. It was while trying to save the New York-based Loft's candy chain that he took a special interest in its Pepsi syrup di­vision. Pepsi was spun off and Mack became its president 
The FBI searched around the world Monday for a dozen priceless artworks stolen from Boston's Gardner Museum. Authorities said it was the biggest theft of mod­ern times-a $100 million-plus caper exceeded only by the looting of Germany's national bank at the end of World War II. The museum, meanwhile, disclosed that the missing works were insured for damage as well as restoration and conservation, but that it had no theft in­
surance. 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: 

News  
Production  Monica Yant  
Wendy Cunningham  Pete Yob  
Jeanne Blasi  Amy Leroux  
Viewpoint  
Julie Shepherd  
Kathy Welsh  Accent  
Arne! J. Gallanosa  Paige Smoron  
Sports  
Scott Brutocao  
Systems  
Ad Design  Gilbert Gomez  
Graphics  Amy Eckert  Deb Walker  
Bradford J. Boehm  Kristie Rolke  

Quinn Satepauhoodle 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday excepl dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1aled Press All reproouctlon nghts are reserved 
in 1938. 

INDIANA 
Some union members and state em­ployees have decided to support a state prison guard boycott of the Indiana Lottery. "We know that's not going to break the lottery," said Hoger Cooper, president of a chapter of the Indiana State Employees Association at the Michigan City prison. "It's simply going to emphasize how that money could be used to help state employees." 
Terre Haute's mayor has called foul about resident complaints that the town has a less than pleasant odor. "My reaction to any citi­zen calling this the stink capital of the world is that there is a bus leaving today," said mayor Pete Chalos. Terre Haute had been identified in USA Today Monday by several residents as an odorous area. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings tor March 19. 1990 


Volume in shares 
170.25 Million 
NYSE Index  
188.66  i)  .74  
S&P Composite  
343.53  i) 1.62  

Dow Jones Industrials ~5..:63 i) 14.41 Precious Metals Gold {7 $.20 to $400.00 1oz. 
Silver..(} 1q; to $5.11 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On March 20: e In 1903: U.S. gains naval bases at Guantanomo and Bahia I fonda. e In 1919: Typhoid rPportPd rag­ing in PPtrograd. killing 200 daily. e In 1930: PopP !:ius XI givPs a sp1~dal mass for Hussian dwrdws. e In 1949: Sovi1~t P1~opln's Council 
signs the r:onstitution of German Democratic Hepublie. e In 1979: Twenty tons of hashish 
was seized in thP largest. drug bust in 
U.S. history in New .JersHy. 


The Observer page 3 
NASA pilot will lecture Wed. 
Special to The Observer 
Commander James Wether­bee. Notre Dame's first gradu­ate in space, will present a Dis­tinguished Alumni Lecture Wednesday, March 21 at 3:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Wetherbee will show slides 
and a 20-minute NASA film and 
also answer questions from the 
audience. 
Wetherbee received his bache­
lor's degree in aerospace engi­
neering in 197 4. He served as 
pilot on the crew of STS-32, 
which was launched from the 
Kennedy Space Center in Cape 
Canaveral, Fla., on Jan. 9, 
1990. 
In the longest Shuttle mission to date, crew members aboard the Orbiter Columbia success­fully deployed the Syncom IV­FS satellite and retrieved the 21,400 pound Long Duration Exposure Facility (LDEF) using NASA's remote manipulator system. The LDEF, a large 12­sided trunk that had been sus­pended in space for more than five years, contained 56 exper­iments sponsored by scientists of many nationalities. 
A number of medical tests were conducted as well -in­cluding inflight lower body negative pressure and infiight aerobic exercise and muscle performance -to evaluate human adaptation to extended duration missions. 
After 173 orbits of the earth in 261 hours, Columbia re­turned Jan. 20 with a night 
landing at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. 
Commissioned in the U.S. Navy in 1975, Commander Wetherbee was designated a naval aviator in 1976. In 1981 he trained in the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School in Patuxent River, Md. 
He was selected in 1 984 by NASA as an astronaut candi­date, qualifying him for as­signment as a pilot on future space shuttle flight crews. 
The lecture is free and open to the public. However. no tick­ets will be issued and seating is on a first come-first served ba­sis. 

Photo courtesy Notre Dame Public Relations and Information 
Observer News Dept. staff promotions, new 
Special to The Observer English. major from Maple Glenn. Penn. He previously 
News Editor Kelley Tuthill served as a Copy Editor. is pleased to announce the •Freshman Monica Yant following promotions within will serve as an Assisant the news department of The News Editor. A student in Observer: 
the Freshman Year of Stud­
•Sophomore Jani~e ies. she hails from Ft. O'Leary will serve as Asso­Wayne, Ind. She previously ciate News Editor. She is an served as a Copy Editor and English major from Haup­Business Editor. pauge; NY. She previously •Freshman Paul Pearson served as a Copy Editor, an will serve as an Assisant 
Assistant News Editor, and News Editor. He is a student an Assistant Viewpoint Edi­in the Freshman Year of tor. Studies, he is from Tampa, Fla. He previously served as 
•Sandy 
Wiegand, a fresh­a Copy Editor. man, will be an Assistant •Joe Moody, a student in News Editor and Business the Freshman Year of Stud­Editor. A student in the ies, will also serve as an As­Freshman Year of Studies, sistant News Editor. He is she is from Michigan City, from South Bend, Ind. He Ind. She previously served as previously served as a Copy a Copy Editor. Editor. 

•Sophomore 
Pete Loftus will serve as an Assistant •cathyMeere will assume News Editor. He is an the position of Day Chief. 



announces members 
She is a sophomore at Saint Mary's from Malverne, N.Y. She previously served as a Day Editor. 
•
Erin O'Neill, will serve as a Copy Editor. She is a junior English major from Uni­versity Heights, OH. She previously served as Day Chief. 

•Pete 
Yob will also serve as a Copy Editor. He is a second year law student form Au­rora, Colo. 

•Kevaleen 
Hyan will as­sume the position of Copy Editor. She is a sophomore in Arts and Letters from Springfield, Virg. 

•Catherine 
Kane will serve as a Copy Editor. She is a sophomore in Arts and Let­ters from Walton, NY. 

•Mike 
Owen will assume the position of Copy Editor. He is a student in the Freshman Year of Studies from Cooperstown, NY. 




lJpcoming Events 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21 
lecture 


PATRICIA M. MISCHE, cofounder, Global Education Associates 
"ECOlOGICAl SECURITY IN AN INTERDEPENDENT WORLD" at 4:00p.m.-Room 121 law School 
TUESDAY, MARCH 27 
lecture 

BISHOP THOMAS GUMBLETON, Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit and President of Pax Christi USA 
"NOTRE DAME AND THE POST COLD WAR WORLD" from 4:00 to 5:30 
p.m. -Room 121 law School 
Everyone Welcome 

INSTITUTE FOR
••• INTERNATIONAL




111111 ~N::;;o;~~l:: 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Alumni Association Board of Directors selected three Notre Dame graduates for awards during its winter meeting last month. 
Dr. Dennis Cantwell, a 1961 graduate, will receive the William D. Reynolds Award. Established in 1984, the Reynolds award is annually given to a Notre Dame gradu­ate who has given distinguished service to young people. 
Cantwell, the Joseph Campbell Professor of Child Psychiatry at the University of California at 
lml 
OFFICE OF 
0MPUS MINISTRY 
UniYeniry of Hofrl Oomt No~t Dome. IN ~6558 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Aionzo, C.S.C. Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Fares 1/2 RT from Chicago. Some re­
For additional information call: 
strictions apply. On·the-spot rail­

239-5242 or 239-5955 
passes, lnt'l. Student I. D. cards, youth 
hostel passes, work and study pro­
grams. Call for FREE Travel Catalog.

Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students, 
International Students and Members of the Notre Dame Family invited to attend 
CAMPUS BIBLE SWDY .. 
..c. B.s. 
Ecumenical Lenten Bible Study Tuesday, March 20, 1990 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 PM. 
one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room of Office of Campus Ministry 
Lon~on $199 Madrid $235

Badin Hall 
Paris 225 Rome 259 Frankfurt 215 


Los Angeles, has for 17 years administered the largest child psychiatry training program in the nation, usually graduating ten specialists in child psychia­try each year. 
Only 3000 board certified specialists now practice child psychiatry in the U.S. Cantwell will receive the award on April 28 during halftime ceremonies at the Blue and Gold football game. 
Father James Riehle, a 1949 Notre Dame graduate, will re­ceive the James E. Armstrong Award. A former dean of stu­dents and member of the Notre Dame staff since his ordination, 
see AWARDS I page 4 



CounciiTrawl 
1153 N. Dearborn St._jChicago, IL 60610 
---312-951-0585 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday. March 20, 1990 
Mom protects girl from media 
CII HIST CII UHCII , N11 w 
Zealand lAP) -The American 
mother of seven-year-old llilary 
Foretkh shielded her from the 
news media on Monday and 
swore she would keep doing 
exactly that as she presses her 
light for the girl in an interna­
tional custody case. 
Plastic surgeon Elizabeth Morgan of Washington, D.C., was reunited over the weekend with her daughter ten days after the mother arrived in New Zealand to discuss the case with her lawyers. 
She has accusPd the father, dental surgeon Eric Foretich, of sexually molesting lhP child and in 1987 began serving 25 months in jail for refusing to reveal llilary's whereabouts. 
Foretich dPnies the charges. lie saw his daughter last week for the first time in more than two years and has since re­turned to his Falls Church, Va., home. 
Hilary was spirited to New Zealand 18 months ago to live with her maternal grandpar­ents, William and Antonia Mor­garL 
Morgan flew from Auckland 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
hood office there. I encouraged 
pregnant women to leave the 
island to have an abortion." 
Earlier, a police spokesman said authorities had no plans to bll at the speech and if someone wants to file a complaint against Benshoof, it will be forwarded to the attorney gen­eral's otnce. 
A spokPswoman for the at­
tornny general said she was 
going to issue a statement later 
in the day. 
Benshoof went to Guam to try 
to pnrsuade Ada not to sign the 
bill, but was unable to arrange 
a meeting with the governor. 

Awards 
continued from page 3 
Sorin, C.S.C. Award. A South 
Dakota physician who has 
worked among the poor in 
West Africa and Nepal, Hnisler 
directed a hospital in Kenya 
during the 1984-85 famine. 
lie also worked in Soviet Ar­
menia after the December, 
1988 earthquake. A membnr of 
the International Physicians for 
the Prevention of Nuclear War, 
he is involved in various Third 
World health projects with So­
viet doctors. 
The Sorin award was estab­
lishnd in 1965 and is annually 
given to a graduate formerly 
employed by the University who 
has given long and distin­
guished service. Heisler will re­
ceive the award June 9 at the 
All Classes Heunion Banquet. 

Mexico 
continued from page 1 
any 'arm' of Student Govern­
ment is the equivalent of spon­
sorship by the University," 
Tyson said. 
For this reason, he said, the 
University will retain the right 
to approve or prohibit any stu­
dPnt trip. 
Tyson said he was pleased 
that thP Campus Life Couneil 
(CLC) was utilized in addrnssing the issue, since it is the proper channel for implementing change in student life. 
The CLC consists of Notrn Dame faculty, administration, and students, including six mernbnrs of the administration appointPd by Father Tyson, a«:­cording to Bmslin. 
to Christchurch to be with her child and her own parents. The group has been staying at a motel while Hilary attends a private school. 
Morgan would not allow news media near her daughter fol­lowing the weekend reunion and pledged Monday to dodge the media as she continues her light for custody. 
Hilary's hiding place became the focus of world attention when her father found her here three weeks ago. 
The New Zealand Family Court is to rule on the custody issue and has barred reporters from covering the proceedings. No date has been publicly an­nounced for the hearing. Fore­tich and Morgan now are di­vorced. 
Morgan refused to speak to the media Monday or let herself be photographed with her daughter. 
She would not say how long she expects to stay in Christchurch and had no com­ment to all other questions. She drove her daughter the 200 yards from the Diplomat Motel to Selwyn Ilouse school Monday 
after being alerted that pho­
tographers were waiting out­
side. 
She took a back route to the 
school Monday afternoon to 
whisk Hilary home. 
Heporters have been ordered 
not to enter the grounds of the 
Diplomat Hotel, Hilary's home 
since mid-1988 
Also Monday, Morgan met her husband, U.S. Court of Ap­peals Judge Paul Michel, at Christchurch Airport. Michel told The Associated Press he arrived in Auckland on Sunday and spent the day talking to his wife's lawyer, Lyn Stevens, and her senior U.S. lawyer Stephen Sachs. 
Michel said he will stay in Christchurch for one week be­fore returning to Washington. 
He said he saw a "good deal of Hilary for nearly a year be­fore she went in hiding." 
But by late Monday he still had not seen the child at the center of the bitter custody bat­tle. 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. 
I' 


is looking for: 
Ad Designers 
Must be creative and responsible. If interested, please contact Amy Eckert at 239-5303 or 283-3525. 

East German Election Results 
Results of Sunday's election by seats won in the new 400-member parliament; percentage of votes in parentheses. 

•'Democratic Union 
(40.91%) 

Social Democratic Party ••••••[D (21.84%) Party of Democratic Socialism German Social Union -.11(6.32%) Union of Free 
-(5.28%)
Democrats Alliance 90 IEJ (2.90%) Democratic 
6<2.19%)
Farmers Party 
Greens and !~dependent. 8 (1.96%) Women's Unron Democratic Awakening I 4 (0.92%) 
National 
12 (0.39%)
Democratic Party Democratic 
I 1 (0.33%)

Women's Union United Left I 1 (0.18%) I 1 (0.13%)
Alternative Youth List 

'I 
: IL~~Y m~nu Iffi~~Jk~frirv~nn : .• Iffimcrnrn~fr .• 
• ~ •
: Sunday March 25th : e 2:00 pm Monogram Room e e JACC e 
e Tickets may be purchased at the Women's e :Basketball Office in the JACC through noon : e on Friday. e 
: $14.25 per person : 
• 
"It was outrageous that the bill was signed," she said. 
Rachael Pine, staff attorney for the Heproductive Freedom Project, said she expected im­mediate action. 
"It will be either a lawsuit or a negotiated agreement to sus­pend enforcement pending out­eome of a lawsuit," Pine said in a telephone interview from her New York office. 
Among those hailing the new law was the National Hight to Life Committee. 
"This is great news," group spokeswoman Nancy Myers said in a telephone interview from her Washington office. "The people of Guam are largely pro-life as reflected by the unanimous vote in the Leg­islature, and they have made a strong statement." 
Tuesday, March 20, 1990 The Observer page 5 


U.S. Atty. Gen. will testify in drug smuggling airplane case 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) -A frustrated federal judge ordered Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to court to explain the government's abandonment of a settlement involving a drug-laden plane leased to U.S. agents and linked to the Con­tras. 
U.S. District Judge Patrick Kelly said the case involved criminal conduct by the United States. 
"This case stinks to high heaven," Kelly said during a hearing on a lawsuit over the loss of the twin-engine Beech King Air, which was ditched in the Caribbean Sea on Jan. 3, 1983. 
The pilot, convicted smuggler Michael Toliver, later testified that he flew arms to Nicaragua's Contra rebels and illegal drugs back to the United States several times under the supervision of federal agents. 
Kelly had canceled a trial set 
for January after being told in 
November that the case had 
been settled through mediation. 
But on Friday, Richard Mon­
tague, an assistant U.S. attor­
ney general from Washington, 
told Kelly that Justice Depart­
ment officials never approved 
the settlement, and said the 
case should go to trial. 
Kelley ordered Thornburgh to appear at an April 2 hearing in Wichita to straighten out the lawsuit's status. 
Thornburgh aide Michael Robinson said Monday that the attorney general had not yet decided how to respond to the order. 
Kelly told Montague that the case "involves the transport of drugs by agents of the United States or with the acquiescence of the United States." Mon­tague objected, saying that To­liver was the only witness mak­ing such statements and that his credibility was questionable. The attorney said the insurance case had nothing to do with those statements. 
Kelly said he was frustrated by the government's lack of ac­tion in response to Toliver's disclosures. 
"I have heard nothing," the judge said. "Frankly, what I have had is stonewalling at the hands of the United States and I'm not going to have any more." 
Kelly had been so alarmed by Toliver's statements that he ordered transcripts of the tes­timony delivered to the FBI, CIA and to then-President Reagan at Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
"The president of the United States advised me in spades that the attorney general was fully familiar with it, and I don't think you are," Kelly told Montague, who was represent­ing the Justice Department. 
Montague said the question of whether a criminal investiga­tion was warranted was up to the attorney general, not the judge. 
Toliver testified in Kelly's court in 1987 that he made two trips to Honduras and Colom­bia the previous year with arms for the Contras and returned to the United States with loads of cocaine and marijuana. 
He said he landed at Home­stead Air Force Base, Fla., with one drug load and that he worked as an informant and contract employee under fed­eral supervision. 
Toliver testified that he wasn't working for the gov­ernment when he crashed the plane. He said he had discon­nected a U.S. Customs Service homing device aboard the plane, and took off in another direction with a load of mari­juana. He ditched the craft off Grand Cayman Island when he ran out of fuel trying to avoid storms. 
Toliver, who is serving a mar­ijuana smuggling sentence in North Carolina, was granted immunity in exchange for his testimony. 
The lawsuit was filed by Mid­land National Bank of Newton, which said it had a $198,000 lien on the plane. 

Casualties of war 
AP Photo 

A young girl is_ c_omforted by relatives in a Kabul hospital recently after she was InJured by a U.S.-made cluster rocket during an at­tempted coup earlier this month. Over 1 00 people died in the fighting which was lead by renegade Defense Minister Shah Nawaz Tanai. The coup failed. 
Jury acquits Aguilar on one count, declares mistrial on seven others 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -A jury acquitted U.S. District Judgn Hobert Aguilar of an ob­struction-of-justice charge Monday but deadlocked on seven other felony counts. A prosecutor said Aguilar would be retried on those charges. 
Aguilar was acquitted of a charge that he improperly ap­proached another federal judge, Samuel Conti, to seek fa­vorable treatment for a friend and creditor, Ronald Cloud, in a pending bank fraud trial. 
The jury reported that it was unable to reach a verdict on the other charges after seven days of deliberations. U.S. District Judge Louis Bechtle declared a mistrial and scheduled proceed­ings on a possible retrial for June 4. 
"It is the government's pre­sent intention to retry all of the counts on which the jury was unable to reach a verdict," Justice Department prosecutor William Keefer told reporters. 
Aguilar did not change ex­pression when the jury's verdict was read, but puffed his cheeks as if to release tension. He de­clined to comment afterward. 

II HAPPY BELATED 22N0 11 
Loue, 

MOM, ORO, RICK, MARGE, JON, COLLIN, LOR I, LYNN, KIM, RND CRSSRNDRR 
Patrick Hallinan, a lawyer for verdict that the vote stood at 7-racketeering: helping Vera Aguilar, said he was pleased 5 to convict Aguilar on one of Hoff, his friend and former le­that "the jury did not buy the the charges, disclosing a wire­gal secretary, remain a fugitive government's allegations of tap to its target. She said sub­in Mexico on a tax evasion. racketeering and corruption in stantial majorities favored ac­Aguilar's attorneys have ac­our courts," but said he was quittal on the other counts. cused the Justice Department disappointed the judge was not "The majority felt that the of targeting him as a liberal completely vindicated. prosecution did not prove its who had ruled against the gov­
Aguilar remains free without case," she told reporters. ernment. bail pending a retrial. The 58-"There was no motive. They Aguilar has issued rulings re­year-old judge from San Jose, could not prove there was a stricting factory sweeps by who was appointed to the fed­meeting of the minds between immigration agents, limiting eral bench in 1980 by President the judge and anybody else." aerial raids on suspected mari­Carter, can be removed from However, she said nine jurors juana fields, and stopping the office only by Congress. felt Aguilar had committed one government from excluding 
One juror, Joan McEarlean of of the illegal acts that was a people from the country be­San Francisco, said after the part of the alleged pattern of cause of homosexuality. 



Senate discusses pow-wow 
By SANDRA WIEGAND year the event received much such as jewelry. In addition to Assistant News Editor support from the local com-members of the club, Turner 
munity, but little from students said, Native Americans from 
at Notre Dame. Turner de-across the country will partici­
At the Student Senate meeting scribed the Pow-wow as "a pate in the Pow-wow. Monday, representatives of the chance to get to know more In other senate news, a Native American Student Asso­about the Native American cui-mandatory meeting for stu­ciation of Notre Dame encour­ture." dents wishing to run for stu­aged student involvement in the The event, which begins at 12 dent senator or off-campus co­club's Pow-wow scheduled for p.m., will include Native Ameri-president will take place at 8:30 April 1. can dancing and a chance to p.m. today in the Foster Room 
Stacey Turner said that last buy Native American crafts of LaFortune Student Center. 
Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 






···--------------------------------~--~

: 20% Discount :.----------­
: TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : CHEER CHEER FOR 
1 1 OLD NOTRE DAME 




1--------------------------------------· 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
Cheerleacling Tryouts 
--~ -­
~ 
~ =­

March 23rd and 24th 7:oopm in the Basketball Arena
Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder 


SHOW YOUR SPIRIT! 
1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates North of McDonald's 277-1161 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, March 20, 1990 
Judge denies Contra mistrial 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A fed­mal judge on Monday denied a mistrial motion by John Poindexter that was triggered by a reference in open court to testimony Poindexter had given Congress under a grant of im­munity. 
The information in the refer­ence was "not new at all," said the judge in Poindexter's Iran­Contra trial. 
With Rep. Lee Hamilton on the witness stand. prosecutor Dan Webb asked about a doe­unwnt, signed by then-President Heagan, indicating missil11s had been sent to Iran in 1985 to try to win the release of Americans held in Lnbanon. 
I lad Poindext11r Pver n~ported dP.stroying tlw document? Webb asked. 
"lie did," Ilamilton said in front of thn jury. 
In othnr tnstimony, Ilamilton said the late CIA Director William Casey denied the very existnnce of the document in congressional testimony -a dnnial that was not true and a denial that had not bt~en known bt~forn. 
Thn congressman, co-chair­man of a special congressional committee that investigatnd the Iran-Contra affair, was refer­ring to Poindexter's July 1987 testimony to the committee, during which he said he tore up thn document. 
No part of the ease against Beagan's national security ad­viser may be derived from his testimony to Congress. given under a grant of immunity from prosecution. 
As soon as Hamilton an­swered the question on Mon­day. another prosecutor. Howard Pearl, stood up and Webb quickly said "I see the problem." 
Webb rephrased the question, but Poindexter lawyer Richard Heckler later asked for a mis­trial, saying that Hamilton had specifically been instructed not to refer to Poindexter's immu­nized testimony. 
U.S. District Judge Harold Greene denied the motion, say­ing that Oliver North testified last week that he watched Poindexter tear up the finding. 
Grmme said Hamilton's testi­mony was "cumulative rather than harmful." 
Beckler suggested the jury might not find North's testi­mony credible. Hut Greene also noted that "both the govern­mont and the defense referred to tearing up of the finding" in their opening statements to the jury. 
"And you have great credibil­ity," Greene told Beckler. 
The information about tear­ing up the finding "is not new at all," Greene concluded. 
In November 1986, Hamilton had been chairman of the House Intelligence Committee that met with Poindexter to discuss U.S. arms sales to Iran. 
The congressman said the na­tional security adviser made no mention of a U.S. role in the November 1985 shipment of Hawk missiles to Iran. The CIA­
assisted delivery was autho­
rized by the Reagan "finding" 
that Poindexter destroyed 
hours after testifying before 
the committee. 
Casey, who prepared the 

finding for Reagan, appeared 
with Poindexter before the 
committee. 
"Do you remember Casey in 

that testimony actually telling 
you there was no finding for 
that 1985 shipment" of Hawk 
missiles to Iran? Webb asked 
Hamilton. 
"I do," replied Hamilton. 

Wnbb asked Hamilton, "Do you recall whether Admiral Poindexter said he could reveal 
all the facts?" 
"Admiral Poindexter said ... President Beagan wanted to tell the full story," replied Hamil­ton. 
The finding that Poindexter destroyed depicted the U.S. role in Iran arms sales as a straight arms-for-hostages deal, the kind of arrangement the Bea­gan administration declared it would never allow. 
Poindexter told the Intelli­gence Committee members that the U.S. government didn't learn until January 1986 of the missile shipment. according to notes taken at the meeting by a congressional staffer. 
Hamilton said Poindexter read verbatim a January 1986 presidential finding that did not 
portray the Iran initiative as a straight trade of arms for hostages. 
Violence delays Greyhound talks 

DALLAS (AP) -Greyhound 
said Monday it will not resume 
stalled talks with striking 
drivers until attacks on buses 
and rnp1acement drivers stop, 
but a union leader pledged to 
nwet "any time" with company 
negotiators. 
The first meeting between tlw 
two sides broke down Sunday 
wlwn Dallas-based Greyhound 
aeeusnd union leaders of failing 
to nngotiate and of stepping up 
violnnee in the walkout. now in 
its third week. 
"i\ lot of the problem was the 
continuing intimidation and vi­
olence," said company 
spokeswoman Lyn Graylny. 
"The company just does not 
feel that they will be intimi­
dated into (accepting) a con­
tract." 
"Maybe if the violence and 
terrorism and intimidation and 
all that stopped ... (reopening 
talks) would be considered," 
she said. "Our main concern at 
this point is the safety of our 
passengers and employees." 
There have been at least 14 
shooting attacks on Greyhound 
buses, 46 bomb threats and 
numerous other incidents of 
vandalism or threats during the 
18-day-old walkout, company 
oflieials say. 
Greyhound operates the only 
nationwide intercity bus service, 
and thn strike has stranded 
many smaller communities for 
which husns arc the only public 
transportation. 
Unions mprnsenting 6,:H>O 
drivnrs and an estimated 3,000 
otlwr (~reyhound workers 
walknd out March 2 ovnr 
wages, job security and 
grinvancn procedures. 
In I>nnvnr. thn Arnalgamatnd Transit Union's vice pmsidnnt. .lim Ilayes, said tlw union would n~turn to talks "any time, any place,'' but the stick­ing point is Greyhound's unwill­ingness to compromise. 
"The company hasn't rhangnd a thing," hn said. "The company makes on11 cent per mile for twery passenger and that eornt~s out to about $78 million. We're asking for $40 million over 3 years." 
The bus company last week began a nationwide radio ad­vertising campaign to counter allegations by striking drivers that newly hired drivers were not properly trained. 
"We'vp, hired many new per­manent drivers who are profes­sionally qualified, thoroughly trainnd and committed to giving you the quality service you've come to expect from Grey­hound," the radio spots say. 
Grayley, the company spokeswoman, said the new drivers must have two years experience driving a bus or truck, and are certified by the Department of Transportation. 
"With so many of the violent episodes that have gone on, people are nervous," she said. "And we don't want them to feel that's going to happen ev­ery time a bus goes out on the road. We want them to know we're doing everything in our power to make those buses safe," she said. 
Union leaders say they con­demned the violtmee and Grey­
hound is the one balking in ne­
gotiations. 
"We have continually called 
for our members to refrain 
from illegal activity," said Jeff 
Nelson, spokesman for the 
Amalgamated Council of Grey­
hound Local Unions in Wash­
ington. "But. we are not po­
lice." 
"This is simply an attempt by 
the company's so-called nego­
tiator to stonewall the real is­
sue, which is negotiating a con­
tract," Nelson said. 
During talks in Tucson, Ariz. on Saturday, the union pro­posed a $40 million three-year package that included pay in­creases of 4 percent to 5 per­cent and the addition of new drivers to the pension plan. 
But the cost would be "three 
times more than Greyhound 
could afford." Grayley said. 
A union spokesman said the company has offered a plan that included no guaranteed pay raises, but would have made raises contingent on in­creased profits and ridership. 
""BLUE VELVET is a mystery ... a masterpiece. . a visionary story of sexual awakening. of good and evil, a trip to the underwor1d."" 
~.. · ....... "r•l-..~-·... 

""Erotically charged ... Whether you"111 attracted or repelled by Lynch"s brilliantly bizarre vision. one thing is for 511111, you've never seen anything ~ke it in your life."" 

o/~
DE LAURENTIIS ENTERTAINMENT GROUP 
........ 
DAVID LYNCH • BLUE VELVET KYLE MACLACHLAN ISABEllA ROSSELLINI DENNIS HOPPER ~LAURA DERN .. HOPE LANGE GEORGE DICKERSON ~DEAN STOCKWEll . fREDERICK ELMES .. ALAN SPLET .. PATRICIA NORRIS DUIIIIYNE DUNHAM. ··:ANGELO BADALAMENTI ·.·RICHARD ROTH ·:·. DAVID LYNCH 
R ..:_:;:;:_:-.,;_. ..::irfc 
Cinema at the Snlte TONIGHT 7:00 
AP Photo 

Supermarket blaze 
Thick white smoke billows from the five-story supermarket Na­gasakiya store building as firefighters are at work in Amagasaki, western Japan, Sunday afternoon. At least 15 people were killed and six others injured in the fire which started on the fourth floor. 
I can believe it's yogurt. But, I can't believe she Is thirty. 

TAKAKO 

• ~-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~-:,......;.;;;:1 w m il 
~ G~ 
TOWNHOUSES 

For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
IJ 
Jil 
Gn 

Tuesday, March 20, 1990 The Observer page 7 

The lighter side of life 
A young Chinese boy in a mock military uniform plays with a bat­tery operated toy tank Monday in Beijing's Tiananmen Square. 
FRESHMAN 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JENNY 
After 19, years, have you figured out what your looking at??? 
Love, Meg & Rich 

Hazlewood loses battle over a word 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) ­Joseph Hazelwood's defense lost a legal battle Monday over a single word that could affect how jurors decide whether the Exxon Valdez skipper was drunk when his ship went aground. 
The word was "noticeably," and was contained in a legal in­struction that told jurors to de­cide whether Hazelwood was "noticeably impaired" on the night of the nation's largest oil spill. 
Superior Court Judge Karl Johnstone removed the word and said he would tell jurors they must only decide whether Hazelwood was impaired. 
"There are a lot of people who can mask their impair­ment," he told lawyers in ex­plaining his decision. 
Defense lawyer Dick Madson appeared stunned by the ruling, saying, "This is the first time I've ever h~ard of this." 
Madson said in his years of defending drunken driving cases in Fairbanks, the term "noticeably impaired" always has been included in jury in­structions. 
"My gosh, it's been around for a long time," he told the judge. 
But Assistant District Attor­
ney Sam Adams argued, "All we 
have to prove is that he was 
impaired, not stumble-down 
drunk." 
Hazelwood is charged with 
one felony, criminal mischief, 
and three misdemeanors, reck­
less endangerment, operating a 
vessel while intoxicated and 
negligent discharge of oil. 
His tanker ran aground on Bligh Reef last March 24, spilling nearly 11 million gal­lons of Alaska North Slope crude oil, wreaking devastation over hundreds of miles of shoreline rich with fish, birds and other wildlife. 
The question of whether Hazelwood showed signs of in­toxication has been a key ele­ment in his trial, with numerous witnesses testifying that the skipper did not stagger, slur his words or show any other evidence that he was drunk. Three witnesses said they smelled alcohol on his breath. 
The judge's ruling came dur­ing a discussion of legal in­structions which will be given to jurors after attorneys deliver their final arguments Tuesday. 
In other rulings, the judge said he would "take judicial no­tice" of the fact the U.S. Coast Guard had a regulation barring tanker crews from drinking al­cohol less than four hours be­fore sailing. But he refus.ed to give an instruction on the point, because the regulation is not state law. 
He also refused a proposed prosecution instruction that would have told jurors the Coast Guard's blood alcohol limit for operating a commer­cial vessel is .04, well below the state level of .10 for drunken driving. Hazelwood's blood al­cohol level was below the state limit, but violated the Coast Guard's. 
Hots off to you Cora! 
Best wishes on your birthday. 
FRESHMANFRESHMAN 

CONSULTING PERIOD MARCH 19-29, 1990 
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS ANSWERED BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOU COLLEGE PROGRAM SEE THE MARCH FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER SCHEDULING DETAILS 
DONT MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 
FRESHMAN 


SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY. MARCH 8 
11 :51 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of a plane ticket from the top of his dresser. 
1:28 p.m. Notre Dame Security dis­covered that a vehicle belonging to a Keenan Hall resident had been vandal­ized while parked in the D-2 lot. 
2 p.m. A professor reported the theft of two books from his office in Stepan Chemistry. His loss is estimated at $100. 
3:10 p.m. An off campus student re­ported the theft of his ID holder and con­tents from a pocket in his pants which had been placed in an unsecured locker in the men's locker room in the Rockne Memorial. 
6:30 p.m. A student in the biology de­partment reported the theft of two new books from her desk in Galvin Life Science Center. 
SATURDAY, MARCH 10 
12:20 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend man for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 71 mph in a 40 mph zone on U.S. 33 North. 
9:15 p.m. A South Bend woman was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 56 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 11 
5:20 p.m. An offcampus student re­ported that his car had been vandalized while parked in the B-2 lot. Unknown person(s) had broken the passenger side window. The vandalism took place between 2:30 and 5:10p.m. 
MONDAY. MARCH 12 
8:17 a.m. Notre Dame Pol1ce were called to the scene of a two vehicle acci­dent in the B-1 lot. No injuries were re­ported and damages were minimal. 
11 :16 p.m. Notre Dame and St. Joseph County Police arrested a South Bend man for OWL The defendant re­ceived additional citations for Driving on Expired Driver's License and Disregard­ing an Automatic Signal. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 13 
12 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the Rockne Memorial to escort an unruly person from the building. 
6 p.m. A South Bend man was pulled over by Notre Dame Police and issued a citation for Failure to Produce Registra­tion. He was then transported to his place of employment. 
9 p.m. Notre Dame Security received a call from a resident of a University owned home on Douglas Road stating that he could not get out of his vehicle because of a vicious cat in his driveway. The cat was removed from the area to allow the resident out of his car. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1 
1:45 a.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a South Bend woman for DWI. The de­fendant received additional citations for False and Fictitious Registration and Ex­ceeding the Posted Speed Limit (56 mph in a 40 mph zone). 
FRIDAY, MARCH 16 
12:50 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend man for Driving While Sus­pended. 
2:25 a.m. A resident of South Bend was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on J.uniper Road. The defen­dant had been travelling 49 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
11 :33 p.m. Notre Dame Police ar­rested a South Bend man for DWI. The man had been travelling 44 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
SATURDAY, MARCH 1 7 
2 a.m. Notre Dame Po11ce arrested a South Bend man for Driving While Intoxi­cated and Driving While Suspended. The defendant made an improper turn at the corner of Juniper and Edison Roads. 
10:30 a.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of two speakers from a display in the JACC. The vicitrn's loss is estimated to be $918. 
3 p.m. A visitor to the University re­ported that his car had been struck in a hit and run while parked along Juniper Road. 
8 p.m. A visitor to the University re· ported that someone had stolen his wal let and contents from his pocket while he was at the JACC. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 18 
12:56 a.m. Nofre Dame Police ar­rested a Granger man for Driving While Intoxicated. The defendant had been travelling 62 mph in a 30 mph zone on Ivy Road. 
2 p.m. A visitor to the University re­ported that his car had been broken into and numerous items had been stolen from the vehicle. The victim's loss is es­timated at $1260. 
5:11 
p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported that eight hats were stolen from his unlocked room while he slept. His loss is estimated at $80. 

5:11 
p.m. A resident of Grace Hall re­ported that his portable CD player had been stolen from his unlocked room sometime between 1:30 and 9:00 a.m. on March 1fl. 




WORLD AWARENESS SERIES 
PRESENTS 

The Struggle For 

TUESDAY March 20, 1990 
7:30pm • 117 Haggar Hall 
"Economic Restructuring of Panama" 
Prof David Ruccio Prof Michael Francis Irene Perurena Franciso Linares 
entra 
WEDNESDAY March 21, 1990 
7:00pm and 9:00pm Engineering Auditorium 
"Romero" :a film. 
IO:OOpm 

Prayer Service Honoring Romero at Siegfried Residence Hall 
FRIDAY March 23, 1990 
6:30pm • South Dining Hall (Faculty Dining Room) 
Central American Dinner 
Reservations Required call239-7668 
IN 


THURSDAY March 22, 1990 
7:OOpm • Montgomery Theatre Lecture and Discussion on Liberation Theology Fr. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. 
Director ofKellogg Institute 
8:00pm· esc "Life and Death of Archbishop Romero: Significance for the U.S. Church" 
Rev. Joseph Nangle, O.F.M. 
SATURDAY March 24, 1990 
"Romero: A Prophet for our Time" Commemorative March departs St. Joseph High School at 3:OOpm to St. Stephen's parish. 
Vigil and Mass at 5:00pm follows march. 
• 

mertca 
OVERSEAS
Week Cosponsored by SrunE~ and 
DEVELOPMENT
;)0~ 
NETWORK 
--------~-------------~------~---------~-­
Tuesday, March 20. 1990 The Observer page 9 

LA BAlE, Quebec (AP) -An explosion on a container ship loading aluminum at a wharf in this Quebec town Monday killed two people and injured at least seven, police and company sources said. 
Sgt. Maurice Girard of La Baie police said the afternoon blast rocked the town along the Saguenay River about 120 miles north of Quebec City. Some res­idents thought there had been an earthquake. 
Alcan Aluminium runs the wharf, which is used to service its local smelter. 
Alcan employee Fernard Le­clerc said the two killed were members of the crew of the Pollux, a Norwegian ship. 
He said they were loading containers into the ship's hold, where the explosion occurred. Leclerc said seven Alcan em­ployees were injured. 
He said he could only specu­late about the cause of the ex­plosion. He said the material in the containers -spent linings from the smelting process of aluminum-"can, under cer­tain conditions and if not prop­erly handled, produce toxic gases, including methane." 
Girard said the ship wasn't seriously damaged. 
Kremlin counters Lithuania's split 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Kremlin Radio Vilnius broadcasts to the Soviet Union. on Monday sternly warned the foreign countries have been The government statement breakaway republic of Lithua­blocked by Radio Moscow," the contained no such threats. nia not to put up its own cus­broadcast said. Gorbachev and the Congress toms posts, introduce its own It said Radio Moscow had of People's Deputies -the na­currency or take over Moscow­been informed and that officials tional parliament -declared run factories without permis-there seemed surprised. "This the declaration of independence 
sion. suggests that perhaps the invalid last week, but Kremlin The nationally televised an­blockade of Radio Vilnius leaders have ruled out use of nouncement was Mikhail Gor­broadcasts abroad was not troops in Lithuania. bachev's first concrete step to conducted by Radio Moscow, Lithuanian activist and televi­counter Lithuania's March 11 but rather by the Minister of sion editor Eduardas Potashin­declaration of independence. Communications of the U.S.S.R. skas said he thought most The announcement did not say But so far, no answer from Lithuanians would take the 
what would happen if Lithuania that ministry has been re­government warning calmly. 
ignored the orders. ceived," the broadcast said. "We say the Soviet empire is 
Despite the harsh words, The Kremlin's television showing its teeth," he said by 
Lithuanian President Vytautas statement accused the Lithua­telephone from the Lithuanian 
Landsbergis said in a statement nian leadership of planning to capital, Vilnius. "But we think 
issued by the republic's parlia­turn over national factories to they can't threaten Lithuania. 
ment late Monday, "I think this private owners, bring in a sep­We'll be calm. We'll fall and get 
is an introductory stage of ne­arate currency and put up cus­up, but we'll go on." 
gotiations." toms posts on the borders of On Sunday, Soviet jets buzzed 
He added that his government the republic. Vilnius in what many Lithuani­
agreed with elements of It said the government was ans c~:msider an intimidation 
Moscow's statement, including concerned especially about nu­tactic, and maneuvers were 
the value of maintaining eco­clear energy plants in Lithuania carried out in the countryside. 
nomic ties between Lithuania and had ordered increased se­Residents said Monday the ma­
and the Soviet Union. curity around them. neuvers appeared over. 
Earlier Monday, a Lithuanian It accused the Baltic republic A Soviet spokesman in 
delegation delivered a letter to of trying to "undermine its Moscow said the military ma­
the Kremlin that promised So­links" with the rest of the So­neuvers were not extensive and 
viet interests in the republic viet Union, which it said could had been planned long in ad­
would be given "careful consid­have "pernicious consequences" vance. 
eration." for the national economy. But Landsbergis told Lithua­
A spokesman for the Lithua­The government said police, nian legislators Monday the ex­
nian nationalist movement the KGB and customs agents ercises added to tensions with 
Sajudis, Lionginas Vasili­would have authority in main­the Kremlin. 
auskas, said in Moscow that 10 taining the existing customs si­He said he asked high-rank­
truckloads of Soviet troops tuation. ing Soviet officers Sunday if he 
were moved Monday from Kau­A directive was issued to the would be notified in advance of 
nas, about 60 miles from Vil­management of all Soviet en­future maneuvers. One of the 
nius, to a military post just terprises and agencies in officers replied that he could 
outside the capital. Lithuania, saying under no cir­not make guarantees. 
There have been unconfirmed cumstances should they begin 
reports the past several days negotiations on handing over The Bush administration said 
that Radio Vilnius had been ei­their authority to local officials. Monday it would keep an eye on 
ther jammed or replaced with Such talks can only be run by Soviet military activities in the 
Russian programs. A loud hum Moscow ministries, it said. Baltics. The White House and 
could be heard during a broad­Many Lithuanians say they State Department spokesmen 
cast monitored in Washington expect Moscow to impose an urged a peaceful approach to 
Monday night. economic blockade, depriving secession and reminded Gor­
"We have reliable informa­the republic of the fuel and raw bachev he had said force would 
tion that in the past few days, materials it receives only from not be used. 

-----------·----~-----------------------------------~----~~ 
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, March 20, 1990 

Ihe ObserNer-_-~ 
P 0 Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Bnen Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuth•ll Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Ecker1 Sports Editor ..................... Greg GuHey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny AccentEditor.................. Colleen Cron1n Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Enc Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........Connne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chns Anderson 
The Observer •s the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students ol the UniverSity ol Notre Dame du Lac and Sa.nt Mary's College It does not necessanty rellect the pohc1es ol the adm1n1strat1on ol e1ther •nst•tut•on The news IS reported as accurately and ob1ect•vety as poss•ble Uns•gned edllonals represent the op.n1on ol the maronty ol the Ed1otr 1n Ch•el. Manag.ng Ed•otr Execut1ve News Editor. V•ewpoHlt Ed1tor. Accent Ed•tor Photo Ed1tor and Saont Mary·s Ed1tor Commentanes. leiters and lns1de Column present the v•ews ol the authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members ol the commun•ty and the tree express1on ol varying opon1ons on campus through letters. IS encouraged 
Census of the homeless masks the casualties of Reaganomics 
Dear Hdilor: 
The war on poverty is almost over. Now it is time to do a body eount of the casualties. The weapons Wf\rll the trickle down theory, union busting, elimination of insurance and other benefits. The full-time llmployee is rapidly becoming an endangered spneies. Yes, the war is almost over, and gov­ernnwnt, by joining forces with business, has widened the gap between the rich and the poor. amounting to a privileged vie­tory. 
Today, there will be a "token" body count (census) of the homeless. Unlike Vietnam, the count must be undPrstated, so the brutality of "Heaganomies" can be masked into a "kinder, gentler nation." By careful orchestration, the count can be made to appear that only the dredges of society, the fringes of lower. but human life forms, were affected. 
Fortunately for the nation's 
budget, most of the vanquished
have chosen a cloak of invisibil­ity, not wanting to be identified with the stigma of being home­less. They accomplish this by avoiding shelters. In Chicago for instanc11, if understating the body count by 1,000 homeless, the government can save over $4,000,000 in the 1990s.This is done by diminishing the popula­tion's federal funding by $400 per person per annum. Therefore, it is expedient for the government to not count as many homeless by as much as the vocal minority will accept. 
Logically the homeless are surviving without benefit of in-
LETTERS 

_-=--:;...::--~-~._ 
.. -· -_, 
":.~ -­
·--_,
---... ­
1 
~ 

1 
i !I 

lJ~~~~~~;i~ 
l(r;s ____ __ _____ 1 tervention at this time, so why fix something that is not bro­ken. They do not receive wel­fare without an address, nor can they register to vote, and undoubtedly they do not eon­tribute to re-election campaign funds. It is easy, therefore. to understand the political atti­tude of "who needs them." 
La Freem Keith-Ramsey "The Homeless Lout" South Bend 

esc puts politics before religion 
Dear Hdilor: 
We believe that the Center for Soda! Coneerns. through the composition of many of its groups, and their leaders, is oriented toward a particular political persuasion, with a secondary emphasis on the possibility of living one's faith. 
Wednesday night, Feb. 28, a number of salient facts about the nature of the esc as per­eeived by a number of represen­tative individuals were illus­trated at a meeting of group leaders. Some of these illumina­tions were very interesting. It became apparent at the meeting that the image of the Center, held by many students who have not had much direct eontact with it, may not be far ofT base. 
The Center serves as a home for many organizations that do an incredible amount of won­derful works in both the South 
Bend an1a, as well as on the campus. The problem that arose that evening was that the Center, or at least the groups present, place the least possible emphasis on doing such works as a statement of one's faith. In fact, many were afraid of be­coming exclusive by alienating those who do not believe in God or the teachings of the Gospels. The question was raised as to whether there should be, or why there needs to be, religion present at the CSC. From what we gathered, that answer was a resounding "no," except on an individual basis. We believe, however, that the mission of the Center for Social Concerns would be more fully accom­plished by emphasizing the faith in dealing with issues of peace and social justice. 
Lent is a time of introspec­tion. We would like people to ponder whether justice or peace 
issues are separate from reli­gion, or whether they coexist. As well, should the CSC foster such a union, and is it at present working at all in that direction? It is a shame that at this meeting of group leaders it was more important to respect someone's unbelief than to fos­ter the belief of God in others­espPcially at a religiously affili­ated university. The CSC could be a wonderful place for young people to live out their faith, rather than their politics. If people realize as they work through their faith that politics plays a role, then that is fine, and perhaps inevitable. But to expect religion to be an appendage of politics denies the importance of God. 
Tom Kelly James Robertson Jorge Vera Cavanaugh Hall March 4, 1990 

u 1'~ WCRRYING ~~NTIRblY m f.N:>NY 1-Nll..IONI'>.IRES...'' 
Styrofoam products used at ND damage the ozone layer 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations to the Environmental Action Club and to the Student Senate for pass­ing a resolution calling for the phased elimination. of styrofoam from our campus. It is extremely encouraging to see even a small part of the Notre Dame administration endorsing responsible environmental principles. 
The production of styrofoam cups, containers, and other goods is a major cause of the depletion of the ozone layer of our atmosphere. The Huddle, the Oak Hoom, and most other food oriented services on cam­pus all use styrofoam cups to serve items like coffee, hot chocolate and hot tea. 
The purchase, as well as the production of styrofoam, is environmentally immoral and. 
unlike the controversy over di­vestment from South Africa, the elimination of investment in styrofoam products has no immoral side consequences. Switching from styrofoam to other substitute, recyeleable products would only affeet the managenHmt of these busi­nesses and possibly, increase the cost of a cup of coffee or cocoa. 
I'm anxiously awaiting University Food Servie«~'s posi­tivn response to this resolution. I encourage all students to look ahead to Earth Day, April 22. 1990 where they can get in­volved and makn an Pnviron­mental difference on our own campus. Who says you can't change the world? 
Watts 1/udgens 
Morrissey //all 
March 1, 1990 

Critics inaccurately understand ads regarding the homosexuality issue 
Dear Editor: 
John Warren, in his letter to the editor (The Observer, March 8), has completely mis­read advertisements on homo­sexuality recently appearing in The Observer. The ads did not invite the reader to "feel the same about ballroom dancing, golf, bowling, hunting, jogging and homosexuality." His claim to the contrary is both careless and silly. The ads point out that statistical infrequency (1 0 per­cent or less) is a suspect indica­tor of "abnormality." Later ads in the series challenge common stereotypes about differences in the social values of homosexu­als and heterosexuals. 
If when dealing with the sub­ject of homosexuality, Warren cannot read a simple adver­tisement and get it right, what confidence can we have in his related opinions on sin and re­demption, or such lesser topics as the role of genes in the de­velopment of complex social behaviors, the relevance of an­imal models, or the profes­sional integrity of the proceed­ings of the American Psychi­atric Association? Do the poli­cies of Campus Ministry on this topic have a cogent advocate? 
Edward Manier 
Professor of philosophy 
March 14, 1990 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'How many times must a man turn his head and pretend that he just doesn't see?' 
Bob Dylan "Biowinl in the Wind" 
Accent 
---------~ 
Tuesday, March 20, 1990 page 11 
Taking each day as it comes 
Sophomore Marty Sprunck returns to NO after a draining battle with cancer 
CINDY PETRITES 
accent writer 
H 
n had dncided to call his project, "A Day in the Life of a Domer." And it 
was to complete 

it that one sunny day in April of last year, that fn~shman Marty Sprunck left his room in Flanner, grabbed his jambox, hopped on his bikn, and rode over to the Peace Memorial Fountain: the perfect place to observe typical Domnrs on a typical spring day. Whml he arrived at the fountain. Marty was out of bn~ath. LatPr that day as he climbed thn stnps of thn Administration Building to intnrvinw "Monk" Malloy, he was so windPd that he had to stop. I low strange, hn thought. Probably all!•rgics. Later that wnnk after feeling short of breath whiln rheekmarking eourses. Marty went to the In­firmary to cheek it out. 
Aftnr two hours in th!~ waiting room. the doetor ealled Marty in. But without nven hearing a professional's explanation, Marty could sen for himself that sonwthing was tPrribly wrong. "It looknd like part of my right lung was missing," reealls Marty. AftPr draining tlw 11uid on his lung-the initial problPm-Marty wnnt to St. Josnph 's Hospital for tests. A few days later lw discovered that lw had non-Hodgkins lymphoma. and a tumor the siw of a largn orange in his chest. 
700 miles away in Moundsvinw. Minnesota, Julian and Mildred Sprunek, Marty's parPnts, wPrt' slt>Pping whnn tlw phmw rang. It was Marty making his rPgular hiwnekly rail. But tlw news this time was not n~gular: this timP Marty's panmts lnanwd that their only son had bePn diagnosed with eaneer. 
"J don't know how I fune­
tionnd," Julian Sprunck told 
their loeal Minnnsota paper, 
describing that 11-hour drive to 
Notrn Dame. "You reel, literally 
reel from shock. disbelief, 
denial. bnwilderment, con­
fusion, anger, and helplessness 
at the fact that. .. cancer has 
struck your son." 
After returning to Minnesota, Marty spent four weeks at St. Mary's Hospital, part of the Hiverside Medical Center in Minneapolis, undergoing chemotherapy for Non­llodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer which strikes the lymph nodes and eirculatns throughout the blood. But after those grueling four Wll!)ks. on May 29, Marty's X-ray showed, miraculously, that the tumor was gone. Thus, Marty, though 20 pounds lighter, weak, and almost completely bald, was overjoyed. lie was cured, or so he thought. 
At the end of June, Marty's doctors suggested the possibil­ity of a bone-marrow trans­plant. a procedure in which the patient's own malfunctioning bone marrow is first "knocked out" by massive doses of chemotherapy and radiation. 

Then, either marrow from a healthy donor, or in Marty's case from the patient himself, is transfused in hope that it will take over and resume the func­tion of producing blood cells. 
Though the process is long and painful-"of those two weeks, I remember about five minutes, I was so doped up," Marty says-without it Marty's doctors suggested that the odds ran between 75 and 80 percent that the cancer would return. In addition, without the transplant he could look for­ward to chemotherapy every month, long hospital stays, and giving himself injections. With the treatment, his chances for total long-term remission could increase up to 80 percent. 
Marty chose the transplant. 
following a week-long bat­tery of tests at the Masonic Cancer Center in Minnesota, Marty underwent the bone marrow harvest on August 7, a process Marty remembers as "pretty painful." Two massive doses of chemotherapy, a day off, and four days of radiation then readied Marty for the bone marrow reinfusion on August 17. 
Marty has very little memory of those two weeks. "I remem­ber having to sit in the radia­tion room like this," -Marty hugs his knees to his chest-"and they taped me up so I wouldn't move." He smiles. "This caused a big problem when I had to go to the bath­room." 
Ten days later, the fateful news came. On August 27 Marty had a white blood cell count, a sign indicating that the marrow transplant was suc­cessful. "I was even ahead of schedule," Marty says. "They normally don't expect a white blood cell count for three weeks." 
Then began what Marty de­scribed as "the long waiting game." Bone marrow trans­plant patients can only go home after maintaining a steady blood count of at least 2000 for three consecutive days. But for two weeks the cycle remained: Friday, 2000. Saturday, 2000. Sunday, 2000. Marty was frus­trated. Sitting in his hospital room, its walls plastered with U2 posters, balloons, cards, and pictures of friends, he was eager to go home. Finally, after two more weeks in the hospital, making it a total of 35 days, the doctors gave Marty the go­ahead. 
But going home didn't just mean sleeping in his own bed and staying up late. It also meant solid food. The first thing Marty ate: a hot dog with mustard and ketchup. "Every time I go to a Twins game, I have to get a hot dog with mus­tard and ketchup. But that hot dog was the best I ever had. Even if I did only get to eat half of it," says Marty. 
Having returned in January to the life he left nine months ago as an aerospace engineer­ing freshman, Marty (now a first semester sophomore) is readjusting to life as a Domer. While once he waited for his white blood count to rise, now, bringing up his grades in a few classes and finding a date to Sophomore Formal are among his biggest concerns. And though he will have to wait on getting involved in extra-cur­riculars-he played the role of the priest in last year's Notre Dame production of "Twelfth Night"-he admits that what he enjoys about Notre Dame is "just being here." 
Has the experience changed Marty? "Not really," he says. "People ask me, 'Did you ever think you'd die?' But I never did. Having that attitude really made a big difference, I think. Now, I don't plan ahead as much as I used to. I just take every day as it comes." 
Marty feels that, for the most part, the disease is behind him, though he does have constant reminders. He must have a check-up every six months to monitor his progress. He says, "Every now and then I think it (the cancer) is something I have overcome. Then I look in the mirror and see, well, it's still there." 
Losing his hair has been an experience in itself for Marty. "People ask me, 'Wasn't it hor­rifying to lose your hair?' I think it's kind of funny," he says. Take one time when Marty was shopping in down­town Minneapolis, and a man mistook him for a Nazi skin­head. The man, a passenger in a car, started hurling obsceni­ties and was on the verge of getting out of the car to attack Marty when, luckily, the driver sped away. "He would have gone at it with me right there," Marty recalls. 
Marty's black French para­trooper beret and fluorescent green smiley-face button have become somewhat of a signa­ture for Marty, who is a familiar face about North Quad. He feels that the smiley-face with moving googley eyes is a sym­bol which captures him to a tee, as it reflects the positive atti­tude which has, with the sup­port of many friends here at Notre Dame, pulled him through many tough moments. And what has been the tough­est? 
"The hardest part of the whole experience was leaving this place," says Marty. "Ire­member leaving Notre Dame last April, just when the flowers were starting to bloom and ev­erything was green. When we got to the end of the road by the main entrance my Dad stopped and pointed to the statue of Mary atop the Dome. 'You bring our son back here,' he said. And she did." 
-
,....._____ 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 20, 1990 
Brian Piotrowicz pitched five­hit ball for 8 2/3 innings to
Seattle 
record the win. 
continued from page 20 

Notre Dame scored four runs 
and stole three bases as well as in the top of the eighth inning 
the Irish rode a five-run fifth against Northern Iowa to turn 
inning to victory. a 2-1 ballgame into a 6-1 rout. 
Freshman right fielder Eric Sophomore Joe Binkiewicz did Danapilis drove in four runs on a little bit of everything for the three singles and also stole two Irish, as he held the Panthers to bases in the 10-2 whipping of one unearned run in 5 2/3 in­Bradley. Jacobs added another nings and drove in two runs homo run, drove in three runs with a single and a double. and was wafkf~d three times as M leased with 
Classifieds 
his team's effort thus far. 

"It's encouraging to be 10-4 at this point of the season, but we've still got a long way to go. Our young hitters are up and down like a roller coaster. We still have to become more con­sistent," says Murphy. 
Jacobs stood out as a hitter who wasn't necessarily consis­tent, but exhibited great power nonetheless as he pounded three homers in seven games, including the e-winner in was a much better trip. 
"We've got a lot of young tal­ent, a lot of freshmen who don't know what to expect. These wins will give us some confidence and help us assess where our team should be." 

the championship against Air Force. 
"I really didn't have a good tournament in Seattle," claims Jacobs. "I was struggling, and I was a bit tense, but I feel like I came out of it okay. St. Louis 
WillE FIGHTING Fa< YOUR LIFE 

American Heart a.•a Association '' 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepa.d. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-1837 
Typing 
Pickup & Delivery 
277-7406 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
Shipping. Packaging, Copies. 
Resumes from $15.00. 
277-MA1L 
INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund 
in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 
$$$FOR TEXTBOOKS I PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of NO ave and Howard 
233-2342 
For a hot tip on where 
to find a good time 
Call647-0900ext 1740 
St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotline 
LOST/FOUND ) 
Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. 
Dark blue. with red stripes. Any 
info call Tom at 234-9728. 
REWARD 
LOST: Gold ring with Ruby. 
Great sentimental Value. 
Please, return to Nick . x5208 
or 277-7236. Reward. 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in 
Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during 
JPW. call John X1583 to 
identify 
FOUND/ LIFTED -BASKETBALL ON STEPAN COURTS ON FRI MARCH 2. I TOOK IT BY ACCIDENT. REALLY. CALL X1436 TO 10 AND CLAIM. 
Lost: Ladies Brown leather glove, 
lined. Between Morris Inn and 
Walsh. Call James Purcell collect 
1-923-4238 
LOST: LONG BLUE WINTER 
COAT WITH HOOD. CONTAINS 
KEYS & SHADES IN POCKET. 
PLEASE CALL KURT 3308. 
LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. High sentimental value .. 
····reward••••••••• 
Call Debbie #2935. 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
Found:Men's Timex watch 
outside Holy Cross Hall 
to claim call x4174. 
Lost: Brown wallet 
if found call x417 4 
Thanks. 
Lost: small green stenographer's 
notebook 
was left in South Dining Hall 
has Italian notes in it. 
lcallx41~ANTED 
CAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, sleepaway camp. Massachusetts. Some key positions avail. Also: WSI, lifeguard, arts & crafts. all land and water sports, fitness, gymnastics. piano/play for shows, drama, judo. dance, tennis, archery, photography, computers. model rocketry, guitar, radio, video. yearbook. newspaper, wilderness. woodwork, RN typist. 6/18-8/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY 10707. 8001955-CAMP. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Callt-602-838­8885. Ext R.6262 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT B340. 
FISHING COMPANION WANTED RESPONSIBLE SINGLE MALE 20­
30. IF YOU CAN AFFORD A FREE 1 OR 2 WEEK FISHING VACATION JULY 7-21 CALL272­
9040. 
FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good 
1eighborhood,dishwasher A 
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRONMENT Earn $2,500­$3,500. Nqtional campaign positions to pass Clean Air Act, stop toxic pollution, tighten pesticide controls & promote comprehensive recycling. Available in 18 states & D.C. Call Kate at 1-800-75-EARTH 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Bk6262 
ON-CAMPUS SALES REP 

WE ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTREPRENEUR-TYPE, RESPONSIBLE STUDENT INTERESTED IN MAKING MONEY SELLING RAY-BAN SUNGLASSES. ONLY ENERGETIC, SERIOUS APPLICANTS SEND RESUME TO: 
KEVIN GREEN CIO SOLAR SPECS COMPANY 1173A SECOND AVE., STE. 155 NEW YORK, NY 10021 
~--------------------~ 
su.ERJOIIS 
ORS-Boys~. W. Mas. 

I Gioia Caql, MM. Taps.llry, ~·T...... Alonnat. ..,.. ~ llidln t.v. 1111111n-o1 
lhelolowlng~ 

~.Mil & er.tls. ~­a.Miblll, Bqdlng. W~g, 0..:., 0.... Oruma. F8ndng. Golf, 
. o,rnn.tlca. Hoc:My, Hcnlbedl. KMM, ...__....... ,.,..., ""'*9lplly, PIMD. Raclo, Rodcfty, Rap.. s.llloWng, Slilng, ~ Soccer, T.W., Trw:II,-WSI, w.nki, w.lcll*. Wood. Men c:.l or_..: c..., WNcil, 5 Gleft LMw, :.1&1WINIW<, N.Y. 10543 (914) 311-SG83. w....c:.l Of ....: c..., Vega. P.O. Box ,nt, Du.bury, MA OZS32 ' .,....., 
EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor at CAMP WAYNE. Northeastern Pennsylvania, 2112 hours from New York City. co-ed 6/23-8/21. Salary plus travel allowance and room and board. Option tor pre­camp work starting 6/10. Warm, fun family atmos. Specialists needed in all sports, waterfront, camping. computers, arts. Sign-up CPO, Hesburgh Library. Write Box 823, Lynbrook, NY 11563 or call 516-599-4562 
BE ON TV many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615) 779-7111 Ext T-1481. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28,9 AM­
4PM 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: 
Outstanding brother 
(Winaukee)/sister (Robindel) 
sports camps -22 mile lake near 
"On Golden Pond" site seek staff. 
Transp. paid. Interviews avail. on 
Thurs., Mar. 22 at LaFortune 
(10am-2pm). 
CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and 
unskilled. For information Call 
(615) 779-5507 Ext. R-200. 
PART-TIME SUPERVISOR JOB. 
5-10 PM, M-F. $9/HR. + 
BENEFITS. 
ROADWAY PACKAGE SYSTEM 
CALL 294-4082 
Ball State student needs apt. for 
summer. 317-747-9755 David.
I 

FORRENT 
SUBLEr··suBLEr··suBLET 
??Staying for the summer?? 
Sublet a Turtle Creek apartment 
tor the summer of 
'90!! Living on campus for the 
summer is the "blaaas." not to 
mention expensive! Help us and 
we'll help you!! Call Kelly at 4985 or 
Julie at287-9378. 
...----------------..-------------------­
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
SUMMER RENTALHome near 
campus. Security system.272­
6306 

LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234-9364. 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
WALKING DISTANCE FROM 
NO 232-3616 
HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL 
YEAR FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 BDRM, WID, CLOSE TO NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­6010. 
KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE 
Summer Rental 
4/5 bdrm, 2bth, furnished 
913 Leland 
x4420 

SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP 
Walk to campus, pool 
etc.. 2bdrms. call277-7496 
Delightful 2 story brick home located close to Notre Dame includes family room with fireplace, living room with fireplace, dining room, eat-in kitchen, 3 bedrooms, 2 car garage. For more information call Marilyn Kuller 255-5858 or 234-6325. 
Super executive home, formal living and dimng areas, cathedral ceilings, two story fireplace, hardwood floors, bay window, family room, 3 or 4 bedrooms, great location close to shopping and Notre Dame. For more details call Marilyn Kuller 255-5858 or 234-6325. 
Is II True .... Jeeps for $44 through 
the Government? Call for facts! 1­
708-742-1142 Ext 7316. 
AUTO AUCTION OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
GOVERNMENT SEIZED 
VEHICLES from $100. Corvettes, 
Chevys. Porsches, and other 
confiscated properties. For info. 
Call (615) 779-7111 Ext. R-559. 
FOR SALE!!!! Emerson STEREO: dual cassette, turntable, AM/FM radio & speakers. Will sell CHEAP!!! Best offer. Call Shannon at 2469. 
HARTER HEIGHTS HOME -NEAR NO GOLF COURSE -FOR SALE LOVELY, 3 BOA+, SUN ROOM. FAMILY ROOM. MANY EXTRAS 
rAT239~ 
Hey Seniors. Tell your parents to order all four GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH for any seat anywhere. So after break call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. 
I Need Graduation Tickets. Willing to pay$$. Call Craig at x3100. 
Graduating Students from the Bay Area: Plane ticket, May15, one way, SFO to S. Bend, best ofr. 277-5745, lv. mso. 
{ PERSONALS] 
Parrot Heads Forever!!! 
Thaddeus Thurman Weaver is here-Come by 1628 Portage and say "Wassup'!" 
STUDENTS... 
JUST DO IT!!I!! 
Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. 
Visit the NO Computer Store for more details. 
SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST BID SALES WED. MARCH 21, 6-9 PM FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
SENIORS 
GRADTIXS I need extras! Will pay $BIG BUCKS $ Call Margo x4189 
IS THERE ANY QUESTION THAT BILL IS THE MOST HAPPENING DUDE IN THE MED. PROGRAM? 
Just ask SCRABBLE. The babes dig him, the dudes want to be him and everybody's mother wants him to be their son!!!!ll! 
Perhaps you've seen him with those girly-men in the weight room. Of course he puts them to shame-­He's BILL! 
GET YOUR MEAT HOOKS INTO HIM NOW GIRLS. ASK THE GOOD DR. TO GIVE YOU A FREE EXAM. YOU WON'T REGRET IT!! 
KRISTIN SWENERTON!!I 
Hope you've recovered from last night enough to go out again I Happy (belated) 21st Birthday to a groovy roomie and BAHAMA MAMAI! 
Love, 

Amy and Diane 
Groups or individuals make BIG money selling comical or patriotic Tee shirts to fellow students. Call . 1-214-442-1516. 
$5.00 HAIRCUTS!!!!II!!!!III 
Vito's Barbershop 
1523 Lincolnway West 
South Bend 
233-4767 

CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL 
'KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. 
BIG AIR!!!!!!!! 
iHola. chicas! Un mensaje de Espana a mis queridas amigas ...l miss you so much' Spain has been a blast. but I can't wait to be able to spend time with you again. iAmistad es para siempre! iPortaos! (That means behave yourselves.) Todo mi amor. Carrie 
hiag 

RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. 
ONLY NERDS WEAR YELLOW BASEBALL CAPS--USUALLY TO COVER UP THE HAIR THEY HAVEN'T WASHED IN WEEKS. 
ONLY BIGGER NERDS HAVE NEVER SEEN "THE WIZARD OF OZ!" GEEEEEZ! GET A LIFE! 
TEAM STANFORD 
Fellow Freshman Studs­thanks for all your support. 
--Greg
....................... 
To the girl who taped the 7:00 hypnotist show on 3/7 PLEASE! call me or Leave a message at 4111 
-Madonna Pork-n-Beans 
The Return of ED'S PAINTING CO 
to 
CLUB23 
Tuesday March 20 1Q-2 
The Return of ED'S PAINTING CO 
to 
CLUB23 TUESDAY MARCH 20 ID-2 
Top Fifteen Quotes From Joe's Section 
15. What's up, butt-lick? -Brannigan 
14. Hey, you guys want to go to 
dinner in, say, ten minutes? -Deane, at 4:34 
13. I am Inigo Montoya. -Roach 
12. Have another. -McMahon 
11. Slappa. -Smith 
10. Look, Mummy, there's a 
penguin on the television. -McCann 
9. I used to have a single. -Garcia 
8. What is FISH LIPS? -Flood 
7. Tonight you die. RAI -Roach 
6. Leave the room and try that 
again. -Bucolo 
5. Bucolo, get the hell out of my 
room. -Runtz 
4. You're a hall bum. -Ellis 
3. Well I suppose nobody sends 
you anything. -Orey 
2. I can do more things with my ---­than you can do with Silly Putty. 
-Posey 
1. Yeah, so? 
-Hli:Jer 
GO SWANIE GO!!! 
HAPPY (BELATED) 21st BIRTHDAY KRISTIN SWENERTON 

·oo us proud tonight now that you're finally legall! (Chicken walk anyone?!!) 
Love, ThePWGang 

Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTTLE this Saturday to Chicago! Tickets at Information Desk in LaFortune. 
Do you have what it takes to be a manager? Well. apply tor building manager positions for LaFortune and Stepan. Job applications at 
Information Desk in LaFortune. Deadline is March 23. 
Beer Pounder from Hell Quotes from Daytona Trip 
12. There's a Butt Flosser 

11. I'm not going home in a body bag' 
10. Sig Eps are butt darts 

9.1'11 have two and one half pounds of gifiltafish 
8. I'm Hydrojenna from Bumming. 
7. What do you want done in the room today? Me. 
6. Hey Johnny Reb, where's the best place to go around here. the Confederate Inn? 
5. I'll butt dart for a buck $3.80. 
4. He's making a mockery of the bathroom. 
3. Hey, I know you! 

2. BETTER GET A TO. BABY! 
1. POUND YOUR BEER! 

Top Ten quotes from the PW/NAUGH Myrtle Beach Spring Break: IO.Rob got laid by the "Beav" 9.0id you chow box last night? (No, did you get pole?) 
8.Tonight. you can call me Chantal ?.Black and white just doesn't do them justice (ie Ragna's) 6.Dude, you aren't sleeping at home tonight, are you? 
5.1 guess there won't be any eggs for breakfast. 4.1t's Dave's Day. 
3.11 we bond any more we'll be one. 2.Hey fat face! (Hey ...FAT FACE ..:) !.BEER IS FOOD. SLEEP IS FOR FAGS! 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM BILL & JER'S 
EXCELLENT ADVENTURE 
10) I'm sleeping on a mattress made of wood & a pillow stuffed with dirty laundry! 9) Illinois! NO! 8) Smic Chics-Sucks they're ugly. 7)You win-celebrate;You lose-who cares? 6) Camels in Kokomo? 5) Serious jet ski butt! 4) Subzero CF! 
3) Lake City? Tonight? Ooopsl 2)Where ya going? To get the car washed. 1 )Any specific brand of condom I should use with your granddaughter? »YOU'RE THE GREATEST JER« 
THANKS FOR EVERYTHING! -BILL 
TOP TEN LIST FROM DAYTONA 10)"HI we're the welcoming committee" 9)"1've got to call him or else he'll show up 
,.,.. 

B)"Where is ?" ?)"Excuse me,but WHAT ARE YOU DOING?" 6)"The only thing I'll hold against you is my body" 5)"0h...No wonder why you're so friendly-you DON'T go to NO ­4)"POUNO YOUR BEEEER!" 3)" SHHHI This is a classy place" 2)"You thought she would have S_X w/you blc she wasn't from NOI WRONG!" 1 )"EXCUSE ME but did you know that your A_S is eating that BIKINIIIII" 
I Need 5 graduation tickets. Will Pay I Call INGRID #3461 
is love worth it? 

-
__ ---------,
...._. 

-----~ ­
Tuesday, March 20, 1990 
The Observer page 13 

c I 
I 
1 I 

Wednesday, March 21, 1990 
8:15pm 
Washington Hall 
Free Admission • All tickets at the door 
page 14 The Observer 
Next season's schedule might be tougher 
By GREG GUFFEY in the 1990 Big Four Classic at year roaching stint with the Sports Editor Indianapolis in. one of three Cavs. Holland will become the games on neutral courts. The athletic director at Davidson 
HICIIMOND, Va.-Notre Irish will play North Carolina in this fall. Dame played the 32nd toughest the Meadowlands and Temple Holland compiled a 326-173 sehedule in the country this in the Philadelphia Spectrum. record and was the winningest year. and it appears next sea­••• coach in Virginia history. He son may be even tougher. Virginia dominated Notre was 92-43 in five years at 
The Irish will meet at least 13 Dame on the boards Friday Davidson. teams which played in this sea­night, especially in the first half son's NCAA Tournament. on the offensive end. He guided the Cavaliers to Twenty six dates are set with In that first half, the nine NCAA and four NIT ap­the remaining games yet to be Cavaliers had 10 offensive re­pearances, including one NIT determined. bounds to just eight total re­championship. 
Notre Dame will open the bounds for the Irish. • •• season in the Dodge Big Apple "They were long rebounds," NIT against an undetermined Notre Dame's LaPhonso Ellis Virginia now leads the series opponent. The Irish last played said. "The rims were tight and with Notre Dame 2-1 ...The in that tourney in 1986 and lost the balls were bouncing all NCAA bid marked the 17th time to Western Kentucky 80-63. around." in Digger Phelps' 19 years that 
The Irish will play home Virginia finished the game Notre Dame advanced to a games against Syracuse, Duke, with 33 rebounds to just 22 for post-season tournament and La Salle, Indiana, Southern Cal. the Irish. The Irish finished the was its sixth straight NCAA Virginia. Boston College, regular season with a +8. 9 re­tourney appearance...The Hutgers, Creighton, Portland, bounding margin. Irish were 4-8 against teams in De Paul, Dayton and That was only the fourth time this year's 64-team field. . Marquette. this season that Notre Dame .Notre Dame's Keith Robinson 
Notre Dame will play at was outrebounded. The other finished the regular season as UCLA, Missouri, St. John's in times came against Louisville, an 86.7 percent free throw 
Madison Square . Garden, LSU and Southern Methodist. shooter to rank 23rd in the Louisville. Wichita State. Miami ••• country...Virginia this season (Fla.), Butler, Dayton, De Paul When Virginia lost to redshirted Chris Havlicek, son 
and Marquette. Syracuse on Sunday, it marked of former Boston Celtic great Kentucky will be the opponent the end of Terry Holland's 16-John Havlicek. 
scored eight of the Cavs next 14 Crotty then showed his com­
points to push the margin to posure under pressure, hitting 20-10 with 8:06 left in the half. 8-of-9 free throws in the last
Crotty 
continued from page 20 

three minutes. "I know it's my job to make When the damage appeared "We knew his moves and things happen," Crotty said. done, Crotty struck again. He what he was going to do," 
Crotty was the floor general hit another driving layup with for 35 minutes and committed one second left and drew the Notre Dame center Keith no turnovers while dishing out second foul on LaPhonso Ellis. Robinson said. "It was just a uve assists to pusn his eareer Crotty missed the free throw, matter of us breaking down." total over 500, second on the but Virginia had a 28-18 half­And it was also a matter of all-time Virginia list. time lead. Crotty breaking out of a shoot­
"When he drives in a lot of ing slump at the wrong time for key situations, he will make it "When I found a seam I could Notre Dame. happen," Phelps said. "He step into, I got in and shot," knows when to drive. He knows Crotty said. "I just kept looking Notre Dame when to dish it off. He controls for the seams. I had to hit it FG-A FT-A R A Pts 
Ellis 4-9 1-2 10 0 9
the other people well." fast if it was there. I was al­Ellery 0-0 0 10
4-7 2 

Said Virginia coach Terry ways looking to penetrate." Robinson 4-5 3-3 3 0 11 
Bennett 7-14 3-4 0 9 17
Holland, "John Crotty coached 
Sweet 7-9 0-0 1 1 14 our team tonight. When you've In the second half. Crotty Fredrick 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Singleton 0-2 0-0 0 2 0
got a point guard playing like went outside, inside and then 
Williams 3-5 0-0 2 2 6
he did, a coach can take the used the foul line to send the Jackson 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 night off. All I did was stand on Cavs into the second round. Paddock 0-0 0-0 0 0 0. the sidelines and clap." Totals 29-51 7-9 22 14 67 
Crotty did not come into When Notre Dame scored 
FG Percentage: 56.9 FT Percentage : 77.8 3­
Friday's game against the Irish seven straight points to cut the 
point goals: 2-4. 

on a roll. lie struggled with his lead to 44-41 with 9:51 left, shooting as the Cavaliers fin­Crotty nailed his only three­Virginia 
FG-A ~T-A R A Pis
ished second in the Atlantic pointer of the game. 
Turner 4-10 2-3 9 2 11
Coast Conference Tournament. Stith 7-14 7-9 7 1 21 0
In three games during that With the lead again three at JeiTrles 2-4 0-0 6 4 
Oliver 1-4 1-2 0 3 3
tourney, Crotty was just 9-of-50-47 minutes later, he con­8-13 11-13 5 28
Crotty 1 30 from the field. He hit just 2-nected on another driving Kirby 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Smith 1-1 0-0 0 0 2
ol'-9 field goals and scored only layup, drew the fourth foul on 
Blundin 3-6 0-0 6 0 6. 
seven points in a 70-61 loss to Ellis and hit the free throw for 
21-27

G1~orgia Tech in the ACC tour­a six-point margin. The Irish Totals 26-52 33 11 75 ney championship game. never got closer than those six FG Percentage: 50FT Pereentage: 77.8 3-point But Crotty quickly regained points. goals: 2-9. his touch in the big tourney. 

Virginia 
continued from page 20 

foul their way back into the game. 
As the offense was hitting easy lay-ups, the Cavalier de­fense was holding the Irish scoreless for five minutes. With two minutes to go the Cavs were up 63-50. 
"Coach said they never give up at crunch time," Irish guard Elmer Bennett said. "They shut the door on us." 
'The key was the fact that we put points on the board when they were starting to find a rhythm," Virginia coach Terry Holland said. 
Bennett was the target of Virginia's diamond-and-one de­fense early in the contest. He still man~rul eight poi11ts in the first half but the rest of the offense combined scored only 10. 
"We wanted to play the dia­mond to slow them up," Holland said. "We knew we'd go back to man-to-man later. Notre Dame exploited it for a while." 
"We came out hard and looked to attack," Virginia's John Crotty said. "The diamond took the zip out of their of­fense. It seemed like they'd never faced that before and it confused them. It was effective for us." 
Crotty led both teams with 28 points and orchestrated the Virginia offense, setting a slow tempo that worked because Virginia hit its shots and domi­nated on the boards. 
Bennett led Notre Dame with 17 points, while Daimon Sweet added 14. 

page 15

Tuesday, March 20. 1990 The Observer 
Dickerson says it's time to retire 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Eric Dickerson, the seventh-leading rusher in NFL history, says he will not be back with the Indianapolis Colts next season and intends to retire. 
''I'm through with football, and (the Colts) know it. So I'm telling you, I'm finished," Dickerson, 29, said in an inter­view broadcast Monday on on WFYI-TV's "Indiana Tonight" show. 
.lim Irsay, the Colts' general manager and son of owner Hobert lrsay, said through a spokesman on Monday that the team expected Dickerson to ful­lill his contract obligations. 
"We don't make it a point to discuss our players' contracts," spokesman Craig Kelley said of Dickerson's obligations. 
Dickerson has said his con­tract expires after the 1990 season. 
Irsay called Dickerson's statements "a slap in the face." 
''Before we made the trade with the Rams to obtain Eric, he gave us his assurances he would play out his contract," he said. "We are tremendously disappointed by his actions." 
During the 20-minute inter­view, taped last Thursday at his Los Angeles home, Dickerson, who h'as spent 2 1/2 seasons with the Colts, said he has lost interest in playing football. 
"Hight now I really don't love the game that much," he said. "I don't love it like I did at one time. But rather than stay in Indianapolis and take the pounding that I'm taking, I'd 
rather quit. 
"I mean, it's like taking a re­volver and putting a bullet in it and spinning it around and sticking it to my head, and 
·sooner or later a bullet is gonna come out and kill me. And that's the chance I'm tak­ing," he said. 
"I just can't do that. I like my health. I'll take my health, and no amount of money in the world can buy my health." 
Dickerson has gained 11,226 yards, 10 behind O.J. Simpson, and has rushed for more than 1,000 yards in each of his seven NFL seasons. He holds the sin­gle-season record of 2,105 yards, set with the Los Angeles Rams in 1984, one year after he set the rookie record with 1,808 yards. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Sailing Club will have a meeting at 6:30 at the boathouse on Tues. March 20 and will practice all week. 
WVFI AM 640 SPORTSTALK will travel the road to the Final Four tonight from 8-9 p.m. Join guests Vic Lombardi, Kevin McCormack and Hugh McGowan for all the facts. Phones will be open at 239-6400. 
Cheerleader and Leprechaun Tryouts will be held this Friday and Saturday beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the JACC Pit. All are welcome to attend. · 
NVA Scuba Diving Course irtformation night is Wed., March 21 at the Hock rm.218, 5:30 p.m. 
Interested Sports Writers for the remainder of this year and next fall should attend the new sports writers' meeting next Wednesday, March 28 at 7 p.m. at the Observer. 
Only forstudent American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express° Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $ll8 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six -weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES IDWARDS FREE TRAVEL­


when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks0 Free Travel Program. 
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. Just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 
speed the process.) 

Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges* 
1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fa,res are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Aorida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calii·B00-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS<~> CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
WALES CONfERENCE Palridr. Division 
w L 
NY Hangers 34 28 New Jersey 32 32 Pillsburgh 32 36 Washington 32 36 NY islanders 29 35 Philadelphia 28 36 Adams Division x-Boslon 43 24 x-Buffalo 40 26 x-Monlrllal 39 26 x-llartrord 34 32 Queber 12 54 CAMPBEU. CONfERENCE Norris Division 
w l 
x-SI. Louis 36 29 
x-Chkago 37 31 
Toronto 36 35 
Minrwsota 31 38 
lrolroil 27 :14 
Smythe lllvlsion 
x-Culgary 38 21 
x-Edmonton 35 27 
x-Winnipeg 35 30 
x-Los Angeles 32 35 
Vnnrouver 23 40 
x-dinrhed playoff bMlh 
Monday's (Jamrs 
Lall• Gam" Nol indud"d 
Chkagu 3, Toronto 2 
Sl. Louis al Calgary (nl 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlanlir llivision 
W L Philadelphia 41 2b New York 39 25 Boston 38 26 Washington 24 41 New Jersey I 5 50 Miami 15 51 Central Division x-Delroil 50 15 Chicago 41 22 Milwaukee 35 29 Allanla 31 34 Indiana 31 34 Cleveland 30 34 Orlando t 6 49 WESTERN CONFERF.NCE Midwest Division 
w L 
Utah 47 19 San Antonio 43 21 llallas 35 29 llonver 35 30 llouslon 31 34 Minnesota I 7 47 Charlollo I I 52 Paclfir llivlsion LA Lukers 48 16 l'ortland 47 18 l'hoenix 44 20 Soaltl•• 33 31 Gold••n Stale 29 35 LA Clippers 26 39 Sar.rnm(mto 20 45 
x-dlnt'hed playoff bNlh 
Monday's (;amrs 
l'hiludelphla I 08. New Jers••y 94 
Dallas 117, Allunla 110 
Ulah 105, Sarramento '17 
Sun Anlonlo 113, Phoenix 102 T PL• GF GA 9 81 276 244 6 80 292 275 3 75 313 331 4 66 253 267 12 66 267 294 

T  PL•  Gf  GA  
12  80  253  244  
8  72  263  265  
(,  70  301  336  
5  69  267  261  
10  68  261  268  
9  65  270  269  
7  93  265  215  
8  88  260  229  
9  87  270  217  
7  75  251  252  
7  31  223  372  

14 90 :117 243 13 83 292 263 9 7'1 283 273 6 70 313 309 12 58 227 290 

Tursday's Gam('s 
New York Islanders al Washington, 7:35 p.m. Vancouvt•r at Detroit. 7:35 p.m. l'hiladelphia al New .Jersey, 7:45 p.m. Los Angllles al Minm•sota, 8:35 p.m. 
Prl GB Streak 
.609 Won I 
.609 1/2 Los I 3 
.594 1 1/2 Won 2 
.369 16 Los I 3 
.231 25 Los I 7 
.227 25 1/2 LosI 3 
.769 Won 11 
.651 8 LosI 2 
.547 14 1/2 Won 3 
.477 19 LosI I 
.477 19 Lost 5 
.469 19 1/2 Won 5 
.246 34 Losl 9 
Pd GB Streak 
.712 Won 1 
.672 3 Won 2 
.547 II Won I 
.538 I I 1/2 Won I 
.477 15 1/2 LosI 2 
.21>6 29 Los I 2 
.175 34 1/2 Won 1 
.750 Won 
.723 1 1/2 Won <J 
.688 4 Losl · 1 
.511> 15 Won 1 .453 llJ Lost 2 .4lXI 22 1/2 Losl I .308 28 1/2 LosI 1 
Tursday's (;amrs Orlando al New York. 7:30 p.m. Indiana al Miami, 7:30 p.m. Washington at Chkago. 8:30 p.m. Delroll at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Portland at llouslon. 8:30 p.m. Los Angeh•s Clippers al Denver, 9:30 p.m. San Antonio at Seallie, 10 p.m. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL STATISTICS  
PLAYI·:R  MIN/AV  FG-FGA  fG%  Fl'-FTA  FT%  IIEB/AVG  A  STI.  BLK  PTS/AVG  
llobinson  7'13/27  159-21>2  .607  107-12:1  870  230/7.9  21  21  7  425/14.7  
Ellis  712/32  I 14-223  .51 I  79-117  .675  278/12.6  33  21  37  309/14.0  
Frndrkk  755rn  135-259  .521  61-82  .744  44/1.6  58  I 1  0  365/13.0  
Bf'nnNt  716/25  112-233  .481  84-114  .737  45/1.6  lOb  22  1  317/10.9  
Williams  588/20  83-172  .483  54-73  .740  108/3.7  :11  15  16  22217.7  
Swtlf'l  3'17/15  81-135  .6!KI  16-25  .640  57/2.1  27  14  3  178/6.6  
.la<;kson  437/15  43-121  .:155  23-35  .657  35/1.2  25  to  0  12'1/4.4  
Ellllry  :!45/14  37-77  .481  28-37  .757  58/2.3  llJ  2  0  IO<J/4.4  
Slngil'lon  585/21  35-61  .574  48-74  .649  3'1/1.4  134  28  2  118/4.2  
Crowrord  19rl  '1-IK  .5!KJ  4-4 1.000  210.2  0  4  0  24/2.4  
l'odd<ll'k  22111'1  20-31  .1>45  14-31  .452  67/2.7  <J  3  I  54/2.2  
Towt•r  275/11  llJ-b 1  .:Ill  15-25  .bOO  67/2.7  5  5  5  53/2.1  

Total • 5850/40 K47-1b53 .512 533-740 .720 1098/37.9 4b8 156 72 2303fl9. 4 
•
•
• 
• 

• 
Join the University of Notre Dame Concert Band for an evening of musical enjoyment..•. 
Classical Music, Big Band Sounds, Marches, Show Tunes, and more...
• 

Tuesday, March 20, 1990 -8:00 p.m. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center University of Notre Dame 

Scoreboard Tuesday, March 20, 1990 


Baseball 
EAST REGIONAl. 
Second Round AI The llortrord Civic Center llortrord. Conn. 
Agreement 
• Salary arbitration 

Saturday. Mar<h 17 eligibility for 17 percent Conneclicul 74, California 54 Clemson 79, La Salle 75
of the players with 
AI The Omni
2-3 years. Those 
AllanIa 

players must have been at least 
Sunday. Morrh I 8 Duke 76, St. John's 72
86 days on the roster the 
UCLA 71. Kansas 70
previous season. 
Semifinals AI The Meadowlands 

• $100,000 minimum salary for 
East Rutherrord, N.J. 

Thursday. Marrh 22 Connecllcul 130-5) vs. Clemson (21>-8), 7:41 p.m. 
major league players. 

• Annual $55 million contribution 
Duke (26-8) vs. UCLA (22-101, 30 minutes arter 
by owners to the players' pension 
Connecllcul-Ciemson winner vs. Duke-UCLA 
winner, I :40 p.m.
fund. 

• Within 90 days, baseball will 
SOUTIIEAST REGIONAl. 
Second Round AI Thompson-Boling Arena 

announce plans to expand to two 
more National League cities. 
Knoxville, Tenn. 

Saturday. March 17 Michigan Stale 62, UC Santa Barbara 58 
• Rosters stay at 24 players; 

expand to 25 in 1991; and stay at 
Georgia Tech 94, Louisiana Slate 91 
25 through expansion. 
AI llirhmond Coliseum Richmond. Va. Sunday. March I 8 
RESULTS 
Syracuse 63, Virginia 61 Minnesota 81, Northern Iowa 78 Semifinals
Men's basketball (16-13) 

At The Superdome Virginia 75. Noire Dame 67 New Orleans Friday, March 23 DePaul 64, Notre Dame 59 Minnesota (22-8) vs. Syracuse (26-6), 8:04 p.m. 
NCAA Tournament 
Women's boskelball (23-6) 

Michigan Stole (28-5) vs. Georgia Tech (26-6), 
Midwestern Collegiole Conrerence 
30 minutes after first game
Tournament Noire Dame 67, Butler 66 Noire Dame 67. Dayton 59 

MIDWEST REGIONAL Baseholl (1 0-4) Second Round College Baseball Classic in Seollle. Wash. 
AI The Fronk Erwin Center 
Notre Dame 6, Air Force 5 (11 inn.) 
A~slin. Texas
Duke 4, Noire Dame 2 (9 inn.) 
Saturday. March I 7 
Noire Dame 8, Washington 4 (II Inn.) Noire Dame 6, Air Force 5 (I I inn.) 

North Carolina 79, Oklahoma 77 Arkansas 86, Dayton 84 Noire Dame 6, Northern Iowa I At The lloosier Dome Noire Dame I 0. Bradley 2 Indianapolis Noire Dame 10, Sl. Louis 2 
Sunday. March I 8 Texas 73. Purdue 72
Men's !ennis (16-3) 
Xavier, Ohio 74, Georgetown 71

Placpd third at Univ. or Texas lnvilalionol Notre Dame 6, Pennsylvania 0 
Semifinals Alabama 5, Noire Dame 4 At Reunion Arena Noire Dame 9, Furman 0 Dallas Thursday. Marrh 22 Women's !ennis (7-5) 
North Carolina (21-12) vs. Arkansas 128-4),
Noire Dame 8, Yale I 
8:10p.m.
Noire Dome lJ, Washington 0 

Xavier, Ohio 128-4) vs. Texas 123-8), :10
Pepp<•rdine 6, Notre Dame 2 UClA 9, Notre Dame 0 
minutes aftt~r nrst g'BffiP 

• Lacrosse (2-3) Loyola Invitational WEST REGIONAl. Adelphi 16, Noire Dame 5 
Second Hound
Loyola I 8, Noire Dame 3 

AI The Special Evenls Cenler Villanova I 3. Notre Dame 5 Salt Lake City Saturday, March I 7 Wrestling Nevada-Las Vegas 76. Ohio Slate 65 Qualified Pal Boyd, Mark Gerardi. Marcus 
Ball State 62, Louisvill<• 60 

Gowens. Sieve King and Andy Had<>nbuugh lo 
AI Long Bearh ArPna
NCAA Tournament 
Sunday. March 18 

Loyola Marymounl 149, Michigan 115 
Placed I 8th at lludgeVUCF Golr Classic in Alabama 77. Arizona 55 Orlando, Fla. Semifinals At Alameda County Coliseum Sortball (4-7) 
Men's golr 
Oakland. Calir. 
Notre Dame 6, Pima 0 
Friday. March 23 
Noire Dame 4. Pima 0 

Loyola Marymount (25-5) vs. Alabama (26-8),
Wosl"rn Illinois 5, Nolr<! Dame 3 Western Illinois 3, Nolm Dame I 

8:25p.m. NolrP Dame 8, Temple I Nevada-Las Vegas (31-5) vs. Ball State 126-61. Sam Houston Stale 8, Notre Dame 0 30 minutes urter llrsl game Sam llouslon Slate 5, Notre Dame 4 UNLV-Ball Stahl winner vs. Loyola Women's swimming Marymouni-Aiabama winner, 4:03 p.m. Scored six points at NCAA Championships in 

National Invitation Tournamrnt 
Second Hound 
Monday. March I 9 
Vandf!rbilt 89, Tennosstm 85 
llutgers 81. Fordham 74 
Penn Stole 80, Maryland 78 
New Orleans 65. Mississippi St. 60 
Tuesday. Murrh 20 

Oklahoma St. (17-13) at New Mexiro 118-121. 
9:30 p.m. Wis.-Gr<•en !lay (24-7) al St. Louis (18-11 I. 
8:30p.m. Cincinnati 120-1:11 1111lel'aul 119-14), 'I p.m. Long B<mrh Sl. 12:1-81 ul llawali (24-'1) . 
12:30 a.m. 

Third Hound Wednesday. Murrh 21 P••nn Stale 12:1-81 ul Hulgers 118-16). 7:30 p.m. New Orh•ans 121-1 0) at Vand••rblll (18-141. 8:30p.m. Thursday, March 22 Pairings TIIA 
At Madison Squart1 Gurdt~n Nt~w York 
Semifinals 
Monday. Mard1 26 
Pairings TBA. 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 28 Championship Semifinal winners. 9:30 p.m. Third Place Semifinal losers, 7 p.m. 
MISSISSIPPI ST. 1601 

Burns b-14 4-5 16. Carter 6-7 2-2 15. Merrill 
3-6 0-0 8, Walls 1-5 3-4 5, llarlslleld 2-10 2-2 
7, Smith 0-3 2-2 2, Woodard 1-6 2-4 5. Nlrhols 
1-1 0-1 2. Totals 20-52 15-20 60. 
NEW OHLEANS 1651 

llarris 6-I I 10-13 22. Collins 6-8 5-5 I 7. 
Johnson 0-2 0-0 0, Clarke 2-4 0-0 I>, 
Richardson 4-7 2-3 HI. H"nn<lll 1-5 3-4 5. 
Laiche 0-0 0-0 0, Dyer 2-5 0-0 4, Moon• 0-1 1-2 
1. IIIII 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 21-4:1 21-27 65. 
MARYlAND 1781 

Marlin 1-2 0-0 2, \lusluf 9-14 4-5 22. Mass<'nburg 7-14 12-12 2b, Williams 5-14 2-2 14, McCoy 2-6 2-4 7..-\nd<•rson 1-2 0-0 2. llroadnux 0-0 2-2 2, l.<!wls 1-1 1-2 3. Totals 26­
53 23-27 78. 
i'EI\IN STATE (801 

llay<•s 5-10 :J-3 13. ll<!gilz 3-4 1-2 7. Fogell 6­15 8-~ 20. llrown 4-9 :1-6 12, Barnes :1-7 6-b 14..l<mnings 1-9 0-1 :1. Hicks 0-3 0-0 0. Joyner 1-2 0-0 3, .Johnson 4-b 0-0 ~-Jolley 0-0 0-1 0. Totals 27-65 21-27 HO. 
TENNESSEE 1851 

lloustnn 12-22 2-2 :11. H<wsll !HI 0-0 0, Lorkhorl 11-14 1-2 2:1, 1'.-i<'" 2-4 0-0 4, BPII b· 13 4-4 1<J, Taylor 0-0 0-0 0, WISI•man 1-4 0-0 
2. Curry I -2 1-1 :1, Groves 0-1 :1-4 3. Totals :13­6011-1385. VANDERIIII.T 189) 
Anglin 2-:1 7-8 11. Grunt 5-6 0-1 HI. ll<'id 4­10 2-:1 J(l, Wikox 7-11 8-8 26. llraud 3-12 0-0 <J, Milholland 8-1:1 0-0 18, W)wat 1-5 1-2 3. Mayes 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 31-63 18-22 89 . 

Tuesday, March 20. 1990 The Observer page 17 
Lacrosse gets battered by brawny opponents over break 
The Observer I L.A. Scott 

The lacrosse team, shown here in indoor action vs. Radford, suffered a winless spring break, losing to Villanova, Loyola and Adelphi. 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team hit the road over spring break. and then pro­ceeded to hit rock bottom. suf­fering three defeats by a com­bined score of 57 to 13. 
The Fighting Irish, now 2-3 on the season, began break with a 13-5 reversal at the hands of the Villanova Wildcats in the Philadelphia Lacrosse 
•---------------------.---... The Giants said they would 
Classic. Bright spots for the Irish were two goals by senior attacker Brian McHugh, now seventh on the all-time scoring list, and one goal by senior co­eaptain Dave Carey. 
Next for the Irish was the Loyola Tournament in Baltimore, Maryland, where the Irish took on host team Loyola in the first game. Loyola, ranked second in the nation, throttled the Irish 18-3, despite the strong effort of the Notre 

Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2112 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
COMEDY, SKITS, MUSIC OR ANY OTHER SERIOUS OR OUTRAGEOUS DISPLAY OF TALENTS... 
II Sponsored by the Freshman and Senior classes II 
CALL RAUL AT 1515 OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT 1622 
Dame defense, already exhausted by the onslaught it had suffered at Villanova. 
As in the match against Villanova, the silver lining in the douds for the Irish were Brian McHugh and Dave Carey. McHugh, with one goal tallied, showed why he is steadily climbing the Notre Dame lacrosse all-time scoring list, and Carey again chipped in a lone goal to support the Irish cause. 
In the Consolation match, Notre Dame battled and fell to Adelphi, by a score of 16-5. Adelphi, who had been ranked fifth in the nation in 1989, and currently resides in the Top 10, simply overpowered the Irish. Again, senior Brian McHugh came through for the Irish with a goal. Yet the high-scorer for 
Arizona assesses lockout losses 
PHOENIX (AP)-As players returned to Arizona for an ab­breviated spring season Monday, cities around the state began adding up the cost of baseball's 32-day lockout. 
Some of the eight Cactus League teams planned to begin workouts Tuesday and start playing a five-game schedule next week. 
Bob Howard of the Scottsdale Charras said the San Francisco Giants told the Charras to get ready for March 26 and March 28 home games against the Cleveland Indians and Seattle Mariners. respectively. 
play three others games in Scottsdale Stadium, he said. "If you're trying to figure the loss, you could take the 14­

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
TO JfUjJfSCJfOOL 
PROGRAM 

THAT YOU ATTEND THJS MEETING SO THAT WE CAN SMOOTHLY ARRANGE THE HOSTING PROGRAM FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER!!!!
.-----------------------.1 
the Irish was sophomore at­tacker Mike Sullivan, who beat the Adelphi goalkeeper for three goals. 
Despite the· bushels of goals which the Irish surrendered on their three-game swing down the Atlantic coast, the Irish de­fense performed well. Freshman goalkeeper Chris Parent made many very good saves, but he and the Irish de­fense repeatedly encountered difficulties in clearing the ball, putting Notre Dame at a signif­icant disadvantage. 
"Against teams this good, you simply must control the tempo of the game," noted second­year Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan. "But when you play all defense, it is very hard to control the tempo. These 
game season as being an aver­age and say you were going to salvage five-fourteenths of the season, but it really depends on who's your opponent and whether they give you any weekends," Howard said. 
Geoffrey Gonsher, who serves on the Cactus League Task Force, said other factors would determine the amount of loss. 
"One of the major variables is that a lot of the winter visitors who normally stay here through March when we have spring training games have de­cided to return home," he said. "This is the month when every­one starts gathering up their belongings and gets ready." 
The task force has estimated the worth of spring training in the state at about $160 million losses were the fault of the whole team." 
"Our defense was not bad, for as much of it as we played. I can honestly say we did not do a bad job, but when you spend eighty percent of the game playing defense, you will give up some goals. Really, our defen­sive problems were offensive problems. We didn't score well when we had man-up penalty advantages, which you have to do against teams of this cali­bre," said Corrigan. 
Notre Dame next duels with Wooster, on Saturday. March 24, at the Loftus All-Sports Center, before heading to the San Diego State Tournament in San Diego to battle the Air Force Academy. 
annually. Other estimates range downward to about half that amount. 
Robert Brinton, director of Mesa's Convention and Visitors Bureau, said the state figured the absolute value of spring baseball in Arizona and left out revenue which could be offset by tourists who visited the state despite the absence of baseball. 
A survey found about one­fourth of Mesa's winter visitors travel there solely for baseball, Brinton said. 
"The answer for 27 percent was, 'No baseball? We're out of here,"' Brinton added. 
The Chicago Cubs have trained in Mesa for more than 30 years and represent the biggest spring training attrac­tion in the nation, drawing 126,000 fans last year. The California Angels train at Mesa's Gene Autry Park before moving to Palm Springs, Calif., about mid-March for home games, and the Milwaukee Brewers, who play in nearby Chandler, room in Mesa. lead­ing to an estimate of $37.5 mil­lion for baseball's impact in Mesa. 
However, Hinton said the city had projected a loss of $6 mil­lion to $10 million for a spring training wipeout. 
He said he expected the loss to be about $5 million now that some baseball will be played. 
NCAAs 
continued from page 20 
"Mark lost to a couple of kids 
earlier in the year that he 
shouldn't have, and that hurt 
him in the national rankings, 
but those rankings don't mean 
a whole lot. I think he can beat 
anybody he believes he can 
beat, and he wrestled a great 
tournament (in the Regionals)," 
says McCann. 
King, meanwhile, edged Greg Gardner of Illinois State University by a 6-5 score in the 190-pound championship. King's record is now 18-15-1, and McCann says he wasn't surprised that his big freshman came through with a win. 
"I felt Steve had a legitimate chance to beat Gardner because he had beaten him earlier in the year. Gardner had also beaten Steve once, but Steve's a fresh­man, and you never know what to expect from a freshman," says McCann. 
McCa-nn said he was disap­pointed that Radenbaugh and Gowens didn't perform better in their Regional final matches, but says that now that they
have qualified, they have to be confident in their abilities. If they are confident, perhaps they will even surprise them­
selves in the NCAA
onships this weekend. champi­
-
,.,-­
1. 
18 
The Observer 

Women's basketball left bidless 
NCAA tourney selection committee 'snubs' 23-6 Irish 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Danw women's basketball team did everything they had to do-yet it still wasn't enough. 
The Irish compiNed their stellar season Marrh 9-I 0 by winning th1~ Midwest Collegiate Confprencc Tournament in Dayton, Ohio, and upping their overall record to 2:J-6, only to be oVPrlooked the next day by the NCAA Tournanwnt Selection Committl•p as it doh•d out invitations to its national tournament. Despite ending their seasor1 umlefeated in the MCC and riding high on a I2­garne winning streak. Notre Darm~ did not recPive a bid, nvPn aftPr downing Dayton 67­59 and pulling out a 67-66 last­second victory over Butler to daim the tournanwn t cham pi­onship. 
"Tiwy told us al'tPrwards that we Wf'rl' right in thl're until tlw very Pnd," said lwad roach MufiH McCraw of tlw eomrnit­ltw that d1'tPrmi11Pd the 27 schools rPePiving at-largP bids. "Thl're WPre about sPvl'n tPams at tlw PIHI and tlwy picked four of tlwm. It was very disappoint­; ng for us." 
McCraw Pxplairwd that NotrP l>anw's wPak sehPduiP, PspP­cially towards tlw Pnd of its season. and a 7I-64 loss to lkl'aul .Jan. 27, wl'rP key far­tors in the de1·ision. 
"Wiwn DePaul mad1~ tlw tournanwnl, we thought we had a chance," said McGraw. "but our last big win was against VandPrbilt (.Jan. 4) and 1wen though we won our last 12 games, they chose tl'ams like Ohio Stall~ and UCLA who phty1~d schools in the top 15 down tlw line. They lost thosl' ganws. but it didn't matter to tlw selection committee. 
"We got snubbed." 

Part of McGraw's frustration stt~ms from Notre Dame's im­pressive statisties. The Irish b1~at UCLA and Vanderbilt in non-eonfenmce match-ups and won their MCC contests by an average of I6 points. In addi­tion, Notre Dame lead the MCC in total offense and defense, field-goal percentage, rebound­ing and 3-point pnrcentage. 
"We did go S-6 outside of the conference and 2-3 against top­ranked teams," continued Mc<;raw, "but all that really matters is that you play those good llmms. Ohio State and UCLA didn't win tlwir games against the ranked teams and Ohio State lost its last three of live. W1• fPit like we did nwry­thing we could." 
The Irish did receive an invi­tation to tlw NIT tournament, but opted not to attnnd. a deci­sion McGraw clainwd was made Pven beforl' the MCC champi­onships. 
"They ttlw Nrn had asked us if we would still be interestPd in their tournament if wn didn't go tlw the NCAAs," said McCraw. "But at that tinw we only had sPven lwalthy playl'rs and the idea of playing thren ganws in as many days didn't appPal to us." 
DespitP the lack of recogni­tion by thn NCAAs, the MCC tourney did honor thn accom­plishments of individual Irish 
. \ 
play1~rs. i\ftPr leading thn team in scoring (437/15.I pg.l. assists 
(I :H) and free-throw per­enntagn (. 71N), Karen Hobinson was nar111~d \1CC Player of thn Year. 
While she mad1~ the lirst-tnam aii-MCC squad. classmate Krissi Davis was a second-team selection. Davis lead thn league in field goal pmcentage at .SHO and her 2:B rPbounds (H.O pg.) 
toppPd Notre Dame's stat 
sheets, pladng her fourth in the 
MCCs. Freshman Coquese 
Washington roundnd out the 
thn Irish award-winners by 
making the All-Newcomer 
squad and padng the team in 
stnals with 6 7. 

"I was so happy Karen got 
player of thn year." said 
McGraw. "She really dnsnrvnd 
it. Margarf't Nowlin and Sara 
l.iebseher should have madn all­
ronfPrPnce as wnll. but I don't 
think most coaehns vote for 
mom than two players from 
nach team for that. And Krissi 
should have bnnn first-team 
with thn ynar shn had." 

Thn eonf1•rnncP tournamnnt 
highlightPd tlw dnpth of the 
Pight-membf'r Irish squad. In 
thn first game against Dayton, 
all fivn of NotrP Damn's 
starters finislwd scoring in 
doublt~ figures. Hobinson had 
IS points and 10 assists whiiP 
Davis and Nowlin dominated 
inside, each scoring 12 points 
and tallying II and nirw rn­
bounds mspnetivPiy. l.inbsdwr, 
still nursing a sorn ankle, 
addPd 10, as did Washington. 

I>Pspitf' thn niTort. thn Irish stumbiPd at limPs. AftPr a slow start that IPI't thn scorP at H-7 midway through the first half. NotrP Damn wPnl into tlw lockPr room with a 34-21 IPad. ThP Flynrs tlwn puiiPd to 54-50 with 7: I f1 to go in tlw gamn bn­fon~ the Irish puiiPd away for tlw final margin. 
"Wn played Wl'll, but we Wl'rl~ n~ally tensl'," rommnnted McGraw. "Dayton was confi­dPnl and rl'laxnd with nothing to los1~.whiiP wn knnw we had to win if we wantnd thn NCAA bid. ThP girls really felt the pres­sure. 
Aftnr getting off to a slow start, we finally relaxed. Even though Dayton play1~d probably their best game of the year, we' nevm felt like the game ·was in jnopardy." 
The next night thn agony con­tinued as Notre Dame squeaked past Butler in the champi­onships. Hobinson's basket with 11 seconds rnmaining put 


YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 

the Irish up 67-66. McGraw at­
tributed thn near-upset to one 
factor: the loss of Krissi Davis, 
who missed much of the seeond 
half due to foul trouble. 

"When Krissi came out after 
her fourth foul the momentum 
totally swung their way," said 
McGraw, whose team lead by 
14 at the half. "They hit two 
three-pointers in a row and it 
put them right back in it. 

"Without Krissi to hold the 
team together, we had troubles 
bn~aking their press and get­
ting the ball underneath. She's 
always thern to ealm us down. 
I'm happy we had enough com­
posure to pull out the win." 

Making up for Davis's early 
dPparture were Hobinson and 
Nowlin. Hobinson seored 20 
while Nowlin took over down 
low. The sophomore, who was 
nanwd to the all-tournament 
tPam, finislwd with I5 points 
and 12 rebounds. 

Despite the disappointment of 
not receiving the NCAA bid, 
McGraw pointed out the suc­
cess of this year's squad. which 
finished with Notre Dame's 
lJPst record 1wer. 

"This is the first s11ason when 
we could look back and see the 
way each player improved." 
said McGraw. "The attitude 
was tremendous. This unit 
played so well-together and had 
such chemistry. you never knew 
who was going to shinn when. 
Each person had great games 
just wlum we neednd it. 

"The girls didn't earn about 
individual slats. We've got tons 
of individual talent. but that 
doesn't win games-attitude 
does. We just had a cohesive 
team." 

While losing just Lisa Kuhns, the trio of Robinson. Liebscher and Davis should have no trouble filling the leadership roles and incor­porating the incoming fresh­men into the squad. In addition, Notre Dame will combat the problems of a flimsy schedule next season by challenging Louisiana Tech, Stanford and Tennessee, three of the NCAA's top four seeds this year. 
Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 


Notre Dame won the MCC tournament, while Karen Robinson (above) was named MCC Player of the Year and Coquese Washington was among the All-Newcomer squad. 
"Roosevelt's paralegal program was my stepping­stone to a rewarding career." 
A..eHIIard Leg.. Aalstaal 
Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts & WIUs Employee Beneftt Plans 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program inDiinoia 

• 
Effective employement assistance 

• 
Three-month day and six-month evening cluaes 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 

• 
Student loans for qualified appli­cants On campus Mar. 23, 1990, see your 


career placement omce for details 
For a brochure and your invatation to an information session, write or call: 
Roooo..lt Unlvenlty 
N..,.

II Lawy.r'• Aulttmt Pn>pm 
AddiUO 
~ 
430S. Mlchip> A..,..,. 

• OUc...,,n.~ 
City
312-341-3882 
Manlb bP 



..... 


Tuesday, March 20, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
5 p.m. High School Track Classic. JACC Fieldhouse. 7 p.m. Film, "Blue Velvet." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 7 p.m. Film, "A Farewell to Arms," Room 206 Architec­ture Building. Sponsored by School of Architecture. 8 p.m. Spring band concert. JACC Arena. Sponsored by department of music. 
9:15 p.m. Films, "Surface Tension," "Critical Mass," "Doorway," "New York Near Sleep for Saskia," and "Sangus Series," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. "Microstructure and Heactivity of Catalyst Particles," Lanny Schmidt, University of Minnesota, Hoom 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Coffee at 3 p.m., Chemical J:ngineering Confernnce Hoom. Sponsored by department of rhemical enginnering. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Fish Boats 
Egg Foo Yung 
Pasta Bar 

I lot Ham and Swiss Hoagie 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON CAL'JI\Il, COME OJT \=Roll\ 
00 'fOU \-1~ ME, . 
WI-IEREVER '{OV'RE. \1\DlNG 
G.L~\N ?.' I MEAN 

Commissioner llppl/ca tlons 

Special Euents Performing Arts Ideas and Issues Campus Entertainment Mouies Seruices Publicity Music 
Pick up Applications at Secretary's Desk, 2nd Floor, Lafortune. Applications due Weds., March 21. E\f?M'tt!M 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Intelligent 47 "Till-Was ..,........,...__,.,_.,,..­You," 1957 song 
29 Pouch1 A French brandy 48 Medieval musical 5 Capital of 30 Musical notation

Nigeria composition 50 Caddoan Indian 
10 Engels 34 One not 
51 "... he­
associate included as a bigger than his 14 Appellation of member head": Shak. 
Athena 36 Placard 54 Undress15 Chris of tennis 37 Tail: Comb. form 58 Wagnerian role 16 Seaweed 38 French 
59 Arthur-
derivative nobleman Doyle17 Any Russian 

40 Japanese 61 Fitzgerald of 
soldier 

statesman: songdom
18 Famed film mime 1841-1909 62 Bitter, in Paris
19 Roster 41 Bearcats 63 Molecular parts 
20 Chalks 22 Cab 

43 Removed a 64 Ripening agent hood 
65 German coin or priest 45 Ice pellets 66 Stage of 25 British bishop's 46 Red or Dead, development headdress e.g. 67 Playing marbles 
24 Suffix with host 
DOWN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Disable 2 Edison's middle name 3 Kind of admiral 4 Plant diseases 13 Roentgen's 5 Annealing ovens discovery 6 Gardner and 21 Calculates 
namesakes approximately 1 Eur. country 23 Applies wood aOracular preservative 
9 One of the 25 Canopy weasels 
26 Consomme and 
10 Stores 

broth 11 Balanchine­27 Wall adornment 
Stravinsky ballet 28 Make amends 
~=+--+-+=-! 12 Miles per hour, 
e.g. 29 Pulpit talk: Abbr. 

are movin' in." 

31 Useful 321nhibit 33 Wear away 35 "--Kapital," 
by 10Across 36 One of the flicks 39 Actress Merkel 42 Copenhagen is 
its capital 44 At which point 46 Not rough 49 Remove a 
bottle's cover 50 Laundry cycle 51 Visible juncture 52 Columnist 
Bombeck 53 W. German river 54 Water barriers 55 Former queen of 
Greece 56 Tooted 57 Lugs of jugs 60 Common, in 
Hawaii 

.... 
-

Sports
Tuesday, March20, 1990 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~p~a~g~e~2~0 
Virginia ends Notre Dame's season with 75-67 triumph 
Cavaliers control game early, Defense starve Irish rally in 2nd half 
can't stop
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor Emeritus 
• NCAA Notes I page 14 
Crotty

HICIIMOND. Va.-lt s!HHnPd by the Cavaliers. For the game, 
By GREG GUFFEY 

that tlw University of Virginia Virginia had 17 offensive re­
Sports Editor

nwn"s baskt>tball team played a bounds to Notre Dame's eight. near perfect game in the first "We realize we're outsized 
HICHMOND, Va.-Notre
round of the NCAA Tournament when we take the court," Dame men's basketball roachFriday. Cavalier Bryant Stith said. "We Digger Phelps tried to rnrruitOr rnaybt> it just looked that have to be the aggressor. Sheer John Crotty, but tlw pointway beeausf! it somned the determination makes us go guard opted for Virginia.
Notre Dame team didn't show after every loose ball and every The Irish tlwn tried to stopup. rebound. That was a factor Crotty in the first round of the Tlw Irish tl~am that trounced tonight." 
NCAA Tournanwnt. but tlw
third-ranked Missouri at the "In the first half our problem Virginia junior captain was un­.Joyef~ ACC and edged Syracuse was giving ten offensive re­stoppable.
in tlw Carrier Dome was back bounds." Notre Dame coach Crotty seon~d 2H points andat thn hotel whnn Virginia bnat Digger Phelps said. "We didn't was the general of Virginia'sNotrn Dame 75-67. Iiveryone box out. That was the differ­
offensive attaek as thP
who said the Irish didn't belong ence at the half. We adjusted." 
Cavaliers dowrwd Notre Damein the tournanwnt said, "I told They adjusted and played 75-67 Friday night in Hichrnondyou so." with more intensity, whittling Coliseum.
Tlw Irish were looking for a the 2H-18 halftime lead down to "I think John Crotty is an PX­rematch with the Orangernen, two with eight minutes to play. 
CPIIf~nt point guard." Ph1~lps
who had bPaten Coppin State in The eool Cavaliers refused to be said. "I think lw did a gn~at jobthe 11rst evPning game. Hut it ruffled, maintaining a snail's of generating tlwir offPnsP."
was the Cavaliers who were to pace tempo and waiting for a More irnprnssiw than Crotty'sbattle Syracuse-and lose­ean't miss shot. 
point total-two shy of his ca­Sunday. 
rePr high-was his ability to di­Virginia dominated the lack­Kenny Turner hit a three rect and guide the CavaliPr of­luster Irish in the first half, point basket to widen the mar­fense. llis penetration early inespecially on the boards. gin to five and four straight the game allowml Virginia toDespite a height and weight ad­Cavalier lay-ups left the Irish build a lead they never wlin­vantage, Notre Dame was out­with nothing to do but try to quished.
rebounded I8-H in the first half including l 0 offensive boards see VIRGINIA I page 14 see CROTTY I page 14 
Scoreboard

Baseball team wins College Baseball Classic 
The new daily sports 

By KEN TYSIAC good balldub, but we're coming the 13th inning to give fresh­but still managed to bounce 
stat aggregate in the

Associate Sports Editor into our own. I can see the light man right bander David Sinnes back against Air Force later 
Observer, page 16.

at the end of the tunnel." his first collegiate victory in the that night to win the champi­
Thf~ Notre Dame baseball Coffey and the rest of the first game against Air Force. onship. team capped a 6-1 Spring pitching staff have had a lot to Sinnes pitched 4 2/3 innings of Notre Dame won three games Break road swing on Saturday do with Notre Dame's recent scoreless relief to earn the win. in St. Louis the previous week­with a 6-5 triumph over Air success. The team ERA is down Later that same night the end, defeating the University of 
No Bid! 

Porce in the championship to 2.98 after the weekend's ac­Irish scored four runs in the St. Louis 10-2 on Saturday, 
After winning the MCC 

game of the College Baseball tion. top of the 11th to defeat March 10 and pounding 
tournament, the women's
Classic in the Seattle Kingdome. The Irish reached the finals Washington as relievers Tony Bradley 10-2 and Northern 
basketball team is

Junior first baseman Frank by winning two of their first Livorsi, David Legus and Chris Iowa 6-1 on March 11. The Jaeobs blasted a solo home run three games in the tournament. Michalak combined to shut out Irish rapped out a total of 28 
overlooked by the NCAA 
in the bottom of the 11th inning They needed extra innings to the Huskies over the final live hits in those three convincing 
committee, page 18. 

to power the Irish to victory escape with a 4-3 victory over innings. Michalak raised his victories. and improve the team's record Air Force in their first tourna­record to 2-0 with the win in a Jacobs, who performed des­to 10-4 for the season. Heliever ment game on Saturday and game that lasted until 3 a.m. ignated hitter duties in the 10-2 Mike Coffey pitched 5 2/3 worked overtime in the night­The Irish rose at 8 a.m. for a win over St. Louis, drove home 
Tough week

scoreless innings to record the cap, an 8-4, 11-inning triumph clinic the following morning live runs in that contest with a victory. over the University of and were understandably slug­single and a home run. 
Notre Dame lacrosse

--"The Kingdome tournament Washington. gish in a 4-2 loss to Duke at 3 Sophomore center fielder Dan 
suffers some hard road 

was indeed a real addition for Sophomore designated hitter in the afternoon. Notre Dame Bautch smacked three singles 
losses, page 17. 

our program." Irish eoach Pat Matt Krall singled with the could only manage four singles 
see SEA TILE I page 12
Murphy said. "We're still not a bases loaded in the bottom of in the loss to the Blue Devils. 
~ Wrestlers qualify five to NCAAs 
Squad places second in West Regional Championships 
-
By KEN TYSIAC freshman Steve King delighted Layton lost to T.C. Dantzler Associate Sports Editor McCann by winning the cham­of Northern lllirwis in thn first pionship at 190 pounds. round in the 150 pound divi­
Five Notre Dame wrestlers Hy virtue of their victories, sion. while Tomazir droppnd a qualified for the NCAA champi­Boyd, Gerardi and King ad­10-6 decision to evPntual onships on Saturday, March 10 vanced to the NCAA champion Jamie Hyrrw of as coach Fran McCann's Irish Championships, whieh will be Northern Iowa at 15H pounds. wrestling squad took second held at the University of Boyd. ranked third in the place in the NCAA West Maryland Mareh 22-24. Senior country at 142 pounds by Hegional Championships in Andy Hadenbaugh and sopho­11mateur Wrest/in[! News. de­
Lantz Gym at Eastern Illinois more Marcus Gowens also feated Bret llnlmkamp of University. qualified for the NCAAs as they Drake 9-3 in thn championship The Irish took second place gained at-large bids by finish­match. Boyd obliteratnd oppo­overall in the Regional, which ing in second place at 118 and nents Jeff Chumbley of was basically a two-team race 126 pounds respectively in the Northern Illinois and Mark between Northern Iowa and Regional. Krause or Southwest Missouri Notre Dame. The Panthers won "I thought we wrestled a de­State by scores or 23-7 and 19­
the Regional with 96 1/4 points, cent tournament," said 5 respectively in his first two while Notre Dame finished in McCann. "Our goal was to get matches. second place with 6 7 3/4 points. as many people to the (NCAAs) Illinois State (36 3/4 points) as possible. We figured we had Gerardi fought back from a was a distant third. a shot at getting between five 5-0 deficit to score a 12-8 tri­
Three Irish wrestlers won in­and seven guys in, but unfortu­umph in the finals at 167 dividual championships at the nately Todd Layton tore knee pounds. The El Cajon,Hegional. Senior Pat Boyd con­
cartilage and was only at 70-75 California native is ranked 13th quered the 142-pound division, percent of his potential and in the nation, but McCann saysjunior Mark Gerardi raised his Todd Tomazic got to the semis that this ranking is deceiving. record to 34-5 by dominating but lost a critical match to a 
see NCAAs I page 17
the 167-pound division and wrestler from Northern Iowa." 

The Observer I Dave Lee 
The wrestling team qualified five athletes to the NCAAs: Pat Boyd, Andy Radenbaugh, Steve King, Mark Gerardi and Marcus Gowens. 








