
VOL. XXIII NO. 70 THURSDAY , DECEMBER 13, 1990 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND enrollment declines but still exceeds 10,000 
BY MICIIAEL SCI lOLL 
N1~ws Writer 
Enrollment at the University of Notre Dame has exceeded I 0,000 students for "thn seeond year in a row. according to a report issued by the . Univnrsity's offieP of 
Institutional Hesearch. 
A total of I0,026 studnnts en­
rolled at Notrr. Dame for the 
fall 1990 semester, a decline of 
only 0.1 percent from tlw pre­
vious yPar. 
Thn continued numerical 
strPngth of Nlrs enrollment has 
pleasl'd University officials. 
With demographic studies 
showing a decline in the I R to 
24 year-old population of the 
U.S.. many American colleges hav1~ had to scramble to get enough students fill their classes. Some schools have bnen accused of lowering their admission standards and en­gaging in overly aggressive re­cruiting practiees. 
Kevin Hooney, director of un­dergraduate admissions at NO,· says the University has been able to avoid engaging in such practices. He says ND's improv­ing academic reputation has increased the school's poput'arity among prospective students. 
According to the report, mi­nority students make up 13.1 percent of the undergraduate student body, and 5.7 percent of postbaccalaureate students. 
see REPORT I page 4 
Breakdown by Class
Postbaccalaureate 
1.5% Fifth Year 
I

Enrollment 
25.0% Seniors 
Freshman 

56.5% 
22.7% Law Students 
/
Graduate 

~ 
Students 

20.7% Graduate Business 24.8% Juniors 

Male/Female Ratio Enrollment by College 
33.4% Arts and Letters 
/ 

~ 
36.4% Women

' The Observer/Patrick Midden 
University finan~ial aid committed to assist students with burden·s 
By DAVID KINNEY 
NPws Writl'r 

Notrn Damn has committed itsf'lf to obtaining enough fi­nancial aid to meet the needs of every student accept1Hl to the Univ1~rsity of NotrP Dame. 
"Ttw ideal." said Joseph Husso, director of the Financial Aid Oflicn. "would bn to rnmove consideration of cost from the dPI'ision of a student (to atttmd the University)." 
During the IIJR1J-<JO school year. sixty-nine percent of Notre Dame students received linandal aid in one form or an­otlwr. according to Cynthia Seott. The sum of all aid grew twelve percent to rnach an all­time high of $6.1 million, she 1:ontinued. 

Aerording to Scott, the University awardnd 1.886 scholarships worth $5.4 million, whiln outside sources provided $2.1J million. Non-scholarship aid totaled $25 million. Federal assistance programs aided 7,641 studfmts with a total of $21. 3 million, and ROTC scholarships were awarded to 606 students for a total of $7.3 
million, continued Russo. 

The financial aid process is a complex one, according to Russo, because many different types of aid, hundreds of sources, and shifting policies are involved. 
Aid is provided in the form of gifts, or scholarships, loans, and work-study programs. Two main sources of financial sup­port a're outside aid and insti­tutional assistance. 
The first source of financial support is provided by the University, and it comes from private gifts and federal sources. 
Private gifts are either in the form of endowments or ex­pendable gifts. Endowments to the University are monetary donations given by individuals. foundations and corporations 

· which are combined· into one University fund, according to Russo. The interest gained from approximately ten percent of this fund is then used to support students. Expendable gifts are used immediately rather that in­vested. Some federal aid is dis­
tributed at the discretion of the University. Examples f this aid include the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG), the Carl D. Perkins Student Loan, and the federal college work-study program. SEOG and the Perkins Loan are funded by annual congressional appropriations and are awarded to students who demonstrate significant finan­cial need. 
The second source of financial support comes from outside the University. Outside aid is provided by the federal gov­ernment and from a variety of non-government sources. 
The federal government sponsors two major aid pro­grams. The first of these is the Pell Grant, which provides up to $2300 for each student. This is a scholarship awarded directly through the government on the basis of need. The Robert T. Stafford Student Loan is the second major aid program. This is simply a bank loan on which the government pays interest and other costs during the time that the student is enrolled. 
State government aid is usu­


Daddy's home AP Photo 
Former hostage William Van Ry is welcomed by his wife, Susan, and children, Vanessa and Jordan as he arrives at Denver's Stapleton Airport on Tuesday. Van Ry was a hostage in Iraq for four months. 
ally not applicable on out-of-contribute to the educational state college costs, according to cost. Russo. Delaware, Indiana, A computer analyzes income, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, assets, liabilities, family size, and Vermont are exceptions to number in college, age of par­this rule. ents, and many other factors to 
ROTC scholarships are avail-determine how much money a able on a competitive basis and family can afford to pay, ac­pay up to full college costs in cording to Husso. return for a specific amount of The Financial Aid Office at military service. Notre Dame analyzes the family 
A large portion of private situation, also, said Russo, and scholarships come from ND decides whether the determina­alumni clubs and a myriad of tion of the CSS is appropriate or other outside sponsors, said not. Russo. The primary goal of "There are a lot of rules, a lot many alumni clubs is to raise of regulations, a lot of boxes," money to help students meet said Husso, explaining the im­the cost of going to Notre Dame. portance of the FAF formulas in 
All aid administered by the reducing the applicant pool. University and many outside ~on the other hand, I think it is awards are based on financial important that the (financial need. However, while "financial aid).. workers be compassion­need is an essential considera-ate. tion," said Husso, "it's not the Notre Dame, then, attempts to only consideration." distribute funds as fairly as 
All students seeking aid are possible by adapting FAF re­required to file a Financial Aid suits to mitigating circum­Form (FAF) to the federal gov-stances and invisible factors ernment by Feb. 28, said Husso. that cannot be considered The College Scholarship Service otherwise, said Husso. Primary (CSS) analyzes the form and consideration is given to ND specifies how much a family (both p.arents and student) can see AID I page 4 
OREC to pump oil at high levels until crisis is over 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) ­OPEC will continue pumping oil at high levels to offset crude losses caused by the Persian Gulf crisis, officials said Wednesday. 
Indonesian Oil Minister Ginandjar Kartasasmita said the 13 nations of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would sign a statement Thursday endors­ing continued increased pro­duction. 
He said in an interview that they also would promise to re­duce their output to levels set in late July, once the gulf crisis has ended. 
In August, after Iraq invaded Kuwait, the cartel temporarily suspended its quota system to permit higher pumping by na­tions with spare capacity. 
"We will continue with the August agreement," Ginandjar said. 
"We are reaffirming every­thing," said Gabonese Oil Minister Jean Ping. 
The August accord was put together so that heavyweight Saudi Arabia and other produc­ing nations could make up for lost Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude. 
About 4 million barrels of oil a day have been pulled from the market because of interna­tional sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2. 
Ginandjar said that when the gulf troubles subside, the cartel would reimpose the output caps in force in late July. Under that accord, all 13 nations agreed to hold production to 22.5 million barrels a day in an effort to reach a target of $21 a barrel. 
The cartel's production is pegged at about 23 million bar­rels a day. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude exporter, 
see OPEC I page 4 

---·-·-------------------------~-------.... 
page 2 The Observer .~Thursday, December 13, 1990 
• 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The Year of Women: Midyear report 
Well, we got what we wanted-a "l;! female com­mencment speaker. Ah yes, then the goal of the Year of Women has been ac­complished, right? 


W~oon!. that we're Kelley Tuthill 
half-way through News Editor this academic year it's important to look at what the Year of Women has accomplished so far and what the next semester might bring. . 
If anything, the year has certainly catered to a wide variety of interests. We've had ev­erything from car care classes to ice hockey tutorials to lectures given by prominent women leaders. We've even discussed such forbidden issues as rape, sexual harassment and abusive relationships. 
The community was fortunate enough to hear two African-American women address the student body this fall. Rosa Parks and Maya Angelou showed that African-American women can deliver talks that are inspi­rational and pertinent to both sexes and all races. 
Thus far, the Year of Women has enlight­ened the campuses on a variety of issues. The community is starting to realize that women aren't just whining; that there are some real concerns both on our campuses and in our country. 
People are looking critically at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and realizing that significant problems like rape and sexual harassment are everyday realities for far too many people on our campuses. This awareness has spread into the classroom and students realize that insensitive comments about one's race or sex cannot be tolerated in the classroom. 
Now that the community is aware that problems exist on campus, the spring semester should be dedicated to making lasting change on the campuses. Wouldn't the year have more meaning if we knew the lectures, discussions and informational ses­sions would lead to lasting changes? 
Recently several student leaders submitted a proposal for changes to du Lac in order to better aid the victims of sexual assault. These types of changes, if accepted by Professor O'Hara, will have lasting effects on how sexual assault is handled at Notre Dame. 
Another student group has recently sent letters to the Administration requesting a racial harassment policy. Both additions to du Lac would send out a message that Notre Dame recognizes the problems of sexual assault and racial harassment and is willing to do something about the problems. 
With continued community support. the Year of Women will not be forgotten as soon as Father Malloy "names" the 19~1-92 academic year. Instead this year will serve as a catalyst for lasting changes so desperately needed at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
News Scoreboard 
L. Peter Yob Rolando de Aguiar 

Business Siobhan McCarthy 
Christine Walsh Production 
Alicia Reale Accent Kelly Lynch Shonda Wilson Cheryl Moser 
GraphicsStephanie Snyder 
Patrick Midden Christine Ortiiz Viewpoint 
Kristin McDonald Allison lima Ad Design DaveCerto 
Circulation Tony Paganelli 
Chris Hanely Amy Eckert Systems 
Lu Medeiros Cesar Capella Sports Brian Stalter Rene Ferran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER Forecast for noon Thursday, Dec_ 13 
Lines show high temperatures. 
3 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STA T/ONARY 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associated Press GraphJCsNet 
OF INTEREST 
The Michiana Coalition for Justice and Peace has scheduled a citizens' meeting with Representative Tim Roemer Concerning the Gulf Crisis. Interested people should meet at Roemer's office at 712 N. Niles on Friday, Dec. 14, ·prior to 11:30 a.m. Call Janet Meissner 283­3943. 
WORLD 
After 39 moves. defending champion Garry Kas­parov and Anatoly Karpov agreed to a ~raw ~edn~sd~y in the .19th game of the.ir world champiOnship senes m France. Kasparov, who leads the series 10 points to nine, and Karpov played nearly the entire time allotment of five hours before ending the game. Karpov opened the game playing white. The first player to gain 12.5 points wins the championship and $1.7 million of the $3 million purse. If both players finish the series with 12 points, Kasparov retains his title. Game 20 will be played here on Saturday. 
The Swedish Parliament gave the government the green light on Wednesday to apply to join the European Community next year, under a timetable that could make The move increased pressure in Norway and Finland to join, too. Present members of the world's biggest-trading bloc are Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Britain, Spain and Portugal. Spain and Portugal; the last addi­tions, joined in 1986. 
Pre-Professional Society members, especially ju­nim.·s, interested 'in picking up an information booklet on the MCAT and Medical School applications, please stop by tonight from 7-7:30p.m. in 127 Niewland Science Hall. 
Fifty-five pilot whales beached themselves near the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mas­sachusetts Tuesday, and rescuers managed to get fewer than 10 headed out to sea before deciding to kill many of he mammals to end their suffering. About 100 Volunteers struggled throughout the day to save the creatures ­most of them mothers and calves -with little success. It was the first mass beaching in the area since 70 pilot whales, a small type of whale, beached at several spots four years ago. Scientists decided on euthanasia because 
More th!3n 800 guests attended a glittering ball held by Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace in London on Wednesda~ night to celebrate the 90th birthday of her mother this year and three other royal anniversaries in 1990. Guests at what the palace called "the dance of the decades" included personal friends of the royals from the arts, politics and high society and scores of other celebri­ties and dignitaries.Almost every member of the royal family was present to welcome the guests. 
NATIONAL 
The Senate Ethics Committee on Wednesd~y held a closed session to question James Grogan, an aide to Charles Keating with extensive knowl­edge of Keating's ties to five senators. Grogan was compelled to answer questions under a grant of limited immunity, and was ordered to return • 

Thursday.The panel testimony cannot be used against him in a court. The committee was hoping to pry loose information from a sid~ it hasn't yet heard from-Keating's inner circle. The taxpayer cost of the S 
& L bailout may exceed $2 billion. 
CAMPUS 
Students employed at the ND Aquatics Facilities have donated $300, the cost of their an­nual Christmas dinner to St. Hedwig Outreach Center. The money will go towards the continued upkeep of the center and will help pay for new clothes and food for needy children in the area. The students voted to cancel their annual Christmas dinner for the second year in a row in favor of giving the money to St. Hedwig. 
30 

Yesterday's high: 55 lfesterday's low: 42 Nation's high: 82 (Montebeltt>, Calif.) Nation's low: 0 (McCall, Idaho) Forecast: Tonight becoming mostly cloudly, with lows in the middle to upper 30s, and north­west winds at 15 mph. Thursday will be partly cloudly and much cooler, with steady temperatures_ ranging from the upper 30s to around 40. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
The combined circulations ofNewsday, the Long Island newspaper, and offspring New York Newsday ex­ceeded 1 million Sunday for the first time, the joint pub­lisher said Wednesday. Newsday sold 600,000 copies and New York Newsday sold 400,000, publisher Robert Johnson said. Circulation has surged since a, strike at the rival Daily News began Oct. 28. Since the strike, the five­day average daily circulation of New York Newsday has increased from 221,000 to just under 350,000. Newsday's weekday editions have risen from a prestrike 492,000 to almost 525,000. Newsday was founded in 1940. New York Newsday, with a separate editorial staff, began publish­
ing in 1985. 

MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 180.25 
S&P Composite A 330.19 1I 3.75 Dow Jones lndustrials..n_ 2,561.88 v 24.26 
Precious Metals 
Gold {7$0.70 to $373.50/oz. 
Silver {7 0.24¢ to $4.026/oz. 
Al,MANAC 

On December 13: e ln1577: Five ships commanded by Sir Francis Drake embarked on 
Drake's famous circumnavigation of the globe, a journey that took almost three years. 
e In 1769: Dartmouth College, in New Hampshire, received its charter. e In 1944: During World War II, a Japanese "kamikaze" plane crashed into the U.S. cruiser "Nashville," killing 138 crewmen. e In 1978: The Philadelphia Mint began stamping the Susan 8: Anthony dollar, which went into circulation the following July. e Ten years ago: In El Salvador, Christian Democrat Jose Napoleon Duarte, a graduate of Notre Dame, was named the president of the country's new government. 
~------------------~------------~~~~-----------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, December 13, 1990 
University Glee Club to perform Christmas concert 
Special to the Observer . 
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club will pp,rform its an­nual Christmas Concert Friday, Dec. 14 at 8 p.m. at the Stepan Center. 
The University Brass Band will be featured in a pre-con­c:ert performance. The gr.oup will play a variety of Christmas enrols will be played, starting at about 7:40 p.m. The band will then join in with the Glee Club several times during the· concert for an audience sing-a­long. 
The Glee Club will sing many traditional Christmas favorites, as well as several new Christmas songs. Included on the program are: "Here We Come A-Caroling," "Low, How a Rose E'er Blooming," "The Sussex Carol," "I Wonder as I Wander," "The Holly and the Ivy," "Silent Night," "Carol of the Drum," "Masters in this Hall," "God Rest You Merry Gentlemen," and "White Christmas." 
Admission to the concert is free, but donations will be ac­cepted to benefit the South Bend Shelter for the Homeless. 
• Those wishing to attend are advised to come early in order to obtain seating. 
Paczesny appointed new Director of Admissions 

• 

Brother Just Paczesny 
SpPcial to The Observer 
Brother Just Paczesny has been appointed Director of Admission at Holy Cross College eff~etive January 15, 1991, as announced by Brother Raphael Wilson, president of the College, on Monday. 
Paezesny's responsibilities will include promoting the mis­sion of Holy Cross College through on-going development, organization and supervision of admissions policies at the College. 
Paczesny holds a B.A. and an 
M.A. in administration and su­pervision from the University of Notre Dame. He has served as a high school principal in Chicago, Evansville, Ind. and Michigan City, Ind. From 197 4 to 1978, Paczesny was Vice President for Student Affairs at Notre Dame and served from 191h -1986 as Dean of Students at King's College in Wilkes­Barre, P!mn. He is also experi­enced at the diocesan level, having served as Assistant Superintendent of Education and as a member of the School Board of the Diocese of Phoenix, Ariz. Paczesny is cur­rently Assistant Dean at St. Edward High School in Lakewood, Ohio. 

FULL SERVICE FLORIST 

Bouquets Plants Bouquets Balloon Stuffing Corsages Arrangements Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil 
P-----------------------.l1 0°/o OFF CASH AND CARR'fl I with SMC or ND student ID 1 
The Cr-.lnp Jllall • 
g)


------------------------~ 
South ot Unlvawtty Park lllall 
211•1 2 
5901 Grape Rd. 24-hour answering service Mishawaka. IN 46!\4!) 
DART COURSES ADDED 

AMST 372 01 3360; American Journeys, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 03:25-04:15 AMST 465 01 3361; Fiction and Belief, 3 ~r. hrs., M W F 02:20-03:10 
ECON 490 01 3350; Socialist Economics in Trans, 3 cr. hrs., M W 11:15-12:30 
ECON 572 01 3351; Socialist Economics, 3 cr. hrs., M W 02:20-03:35 
ECON 643 01 3359; Seminar in labor, 3 cr. hrs., M W 04:45-06:00 
EE 598M 01 3340; VLSI Circuit Design, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 08:00-08:50 
ENGL 3190 01 3363; Comparative Studies: The Problem of Evil in Modern Lit., 3 cr. 
ENGL 327A 01 3364; Poetry and Tradition, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 02:20-03:10 
ENGL 328A 01 3365; Childrens literature, 3 cr. hrs., M W 08:40-09:55 
ENGL 397A 01 3366; Twentieth Century Writers, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 09:05-09:55 
FS 180 62 3352; Freshman Seminar, 3 cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15 
FS 180 63 3355; Freshman Seminar, 3 cr. hrs., T H 04:15-05:30 
GOVT 340 02 3343; American Government, 3 cr. hrs., M W 12:50-02:05 
---------------~ 
The Observer page 3 

Professor T.V. Morris autographs his "Philosopher's Calender" for NO law students Bill Webb and Erin Bartholomy. The autograph party was held at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Wednesday. 
Walesa resigns as leader of Solidarity Union to allow transition to presidency 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -Lech swer charges of slandering the Walesa stepped down prime minister. Wednesday as leader of Announcing his resignation as Solidarity, telling the union he Solidarity's chairman, Walesa led iri its 10-year battle against said: "I want to thank you for Communism to expect major our common effort, thanks to changes once he becomes which we achieved the greatest Poland's president. honor." He spoke at a Solidarity 
The president-elect also held National Commission meeting. talks in the Baltic resort of When he becomes president, Sopot, his base of operations he said, there will be "big during the transition, on nam­changes ... an earthquake." But ing a new government. he pledged they will be 
Union sources and a report in "peaceful." the daily Gazeta Wyborcza said Solidarity spearheaded Walesa's most likely nominee changes that led to the toppling for prime minister is Jan of Poland's Communist gov­Olszewski, a lawyer known for ernment and helped bring defending opposition activists. about peaceful revolutions 
Meanwhile, the man Walesa elsewhere in Eastern Europe. defeated in Poland's first popu­Walesa urged the union to be lar presidential elections, emi­active in free parliamentary gre businessman Stanislaw elections this spring, and to Tyminski, left the country after build a base to support his posting a $100,000 bond to as­presidency through the transi­sure his return by Jan. 5 to an-tion to a capitalist economy and 
a European democracy. 
"There will be a great attack of the Tyminskis," Walesa said, referring to his rival, who had won support from members of the former Communist Party. "We should be prepared so there will be no counter-revolu­tion that could topple the pres­ident." 
The National Commission de­51~711 cided that union vice chairmen MEMPHIS IELL.E (P013) Lech Klaczynski and Stefan 
4145-71~9115 

Jurczak will run Solidarity until 
QUIGLEY DOWN UNDER ( 
an emergency congress can be
4145-71~9130 

held -perhaps as soon as next month -to elect a new chair­
man. 
The congress also likely will decide whether to form a politi­cal wing of Solidarity or to con­fine itself to traditional union work, representing workers in negotiations. ' 
The union leadership passed a resolution thanking Walesa, Solidarity's only chairman since its founding during shipyard strikes in AugJ.Ist 1980, as the Soviet bloc's first legal free trade union. 
"He has well served his homeland," the resofution con­cluded. 
Walesa is expected to be sworn in Dec. 21 to a five-year term as president. . 
Walesa's first foreign visitor as president-elect was U.S. Ambassador Thomas Simons, who brought a letter of con-, gratulations from President Bush. Walesa and Simons dis­cussed Poland's foreign debt, Walesa spokesman Andrzej Drzycimski said. 
Walesa also received Rabbi James Rudin of the American Jewish Committee. 
"The president and I had a very warm, friendly and open meeting in which he expressed himself in the strongest possible terms denouncing all forms ­all forms -of anti-Semitism," Rudin told reporters afterward. 
9\LT/W~'S T.o/E 
Cf£ L f£ 'B 1(5'L rr'I 0 9\[ 
hrs., M W o1:25-04:40 

MBA 618 01 3344; Theory &Practice 11, 3 cr. hrs., T H 01:15-02:30, cross-listed with ACCT 372 MBA 689 01 3338; Insurance, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 12:15·01:05, cross·Jisted with Fin 371 Ml 697 03 3349; Directed Readings, 3 cr. hrs. 



*Lounoe opens at sbc o'c!ocf( 
PHIL 227 02 3347; Ways of Knowing, 3 cr. hrs., T H 04:15-05:30 PHIL 241 02 3346; Ethics, 3 cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15 
* tJXJ{JM'E 'l(J13 'lJI9{9{'E'l(-served at eiglit o'cf(}cf( 
PHIL 265 01 3348; Philosophy Reflection/Christian Belief, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 01:15-02:05 
*Live entertainment aruf tiancing
PHYS 699 34 3353; Research and Dissertation, variable cr. hrs, PHYS 699A 34 3354; Research and Dissertation, variable cr. hrs. 
*Midniglit 1\&w Years toast arufparty favors 
ROFR 599 01 3342; Independent Study, 3 cr. hrs. ROSP 102 09 3341; Beginning Spanish 11, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 10:10·11:00 
*Continentaf13rea!ifast 6egins at one o'doc{(
ROSP 231 03 3339; Conversational Spanish, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 10:10-11:00 ROSP 319 02 3345; Survey of Spanish Lit 11, 3 cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15 THEO 200 14 3356; Foundations: Biblical &Historical, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 08:00·08 50 
only $35/person -call now for your reservation 
THEO 200 15. 3357; Foundations: Biblical & Historical, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 09:05-09 55 THEO 200 16 3358; Foundations: Biblical &Historical, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 12:15·01 05 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 
THEO 227 02 3362; Liturgy: Living Before God, 3 cr. hrs., M W F 02:20-03:10 
· 289-P 0 L 0 

~ 

The Observer Thursday, December 13,1990
page 4 


Aid 
continued from page 1 
Scholars, who are the most talented students of the Freshman admitted, as determined by the Admissions Office, he continued. 
"We do it in a consistent way, a fair way, an honest way ...and I think a human way," he said. "The way we're doing it is the same as the finest schools in the country." · 
The Financial Aid Office finds itself continually struggling to 
OPEC 
continued from page 1 is close to pumping 8.5 million barrels a day, sources have said. Its quota under the July accord was 5.4 million barrels. 
Other members pumping above their previous levels are Venezuela, Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates, Iran and Libya. 
The ministers. who agreed to meet again in early March, made their decisions during five hours of formal and informal talks on the opening day of their winter strategy session. 
It was the first time since the 
Report 
continued from page 1 
Joe Russo, ND's director of fi­nancial aid, said the University would continue its major efforts to provide financial assistance to minority students, despite reports that the U.S. Department of Education is seeking to prohibit federally funded colleges like ND from offering "race-exclusive" schol­arships: Russo said he was "comfortable with" ND's finan­cial aid policy, since the pri­mary consideration of all University scholarship awards is need, not race. 
The report said ND under­graduates numbered 7,545, which is down a total of 128 students, (1.7 percent) from the previous year. First time freshmen totaled 1801 stu­dents, 2.1 percent less than the number of first-time freshmen last fall. 
The freshman class makes up 
23.9 
percent of the undergrad­uate student body. Sophomores make up 24.7 percent; juniors, 

24.8 
percent; seniors, 25 per­cent; and fifth-year students, 


1.5 percent. 
T,he College of Arts and Letters enrolled 2,558 students, down 2.1 percent from last 
Alex's Shoe Hospital Many Repairs While You Wait 
Need footwear maintenance? Think ofAlex's Shoe Hospital, serving the N.D. community since 1919. Many services can be done while you wait 
-~­
115We11Wuhlng1Dn, Downtown Sooth Bend Daily 7::JG.5:30, Sal8:00 to 1:00 Telephone 288-2188 
SffiAKS j;~
; . w, 
I 
/ ... • _.J 
PRIME RIB LJ ' 
SEAFOOD ~~~bs~
Hf\t '1-'J.:R.~-<: 
Featuring friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch

·-100 Center-Mishaw;tl<a 219-259-9925 
stay on top of changing federal regulations, changes in eligibil­
Colleges with fed. money 'barred' from 
ity rules, and changes in the FAF formula, according to Russo. An automated computer 
granting scholarships based on race 
system eases the situation, he WASHINGTON (AP) prompted the National Football about race-exclusive scholar­continued, but a great amount Colleges and universities whi& League to threaten to pull the ships on a case-by-case ·basis, of work remains to be done. 
receive federal money are 1993 Super Bowl from Phoenix, but now is working to "set pol­barred by civil rights law from and the annual Fiesta Bowl icy that will work across the"Notre Dame has recognized granting scholarships limited faced a similar protest among board." Five complaints nowthat we need a lot more finan­by race, an Education university officials. are pending, he said. 
cial aid money," said Russo, and 
Department official said The new policy, he said,
it is committed to reaching this Wednesday. Williams said his office is would clearly explain that insti-•goal. 
In an apparent policy shift working with Fiesta Bowl, tlitions can consider race a
"The ultimate goal of the 
that could imperil an undeter­Louisville and Alabama officials positive factor in offeringBoard of Trustees is to generate mined number of scholarship to devise an acceptable scholarships among similarlyenough resources to provide for programs designed to benefit program. qualified individuals "if the in-
the financial need of all 
minorities, Michael Williams, But in a Dec. 4 letter to the -stitution is one where there hasstudents," Russo added. 
assistant education secretary bowl. he wrote that "Title six been limited participation of a 
invasion that all 13 oil-produc­ing representatives have been represented. Iraq and Libya did not attend the meeting at which the cartel's quota system was suspended. 
No sparks were reported be­tween Iraq and Kuwait, seated next to each other in the con­ference room's alphabetical ar­rangement. 
Ramzi Salman Abdul Hussain, director of Iraq's State Oil Marketing Organization, said little. But he told reporters that Iraq could increase its crude production to strong levels "as soon as we want." 
"None of the facilities are damaged," he said. 
for civil rights. acknowledged to reporters he had not discussed the issue with anyone at the White House. 
But he declared that the law is clear. 
A controversy arose last week when Williams ·warned officials of the Fiesta Bowl against their offer of $100,000 minority scholarships to Louisville and Alabama if their football teams play in the game. 
Fiesta Bowl officials made the offer after Arizona voters rejected a holiday honoring as­sassinated civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. The vote 
• 

(of the 1964 Civil Rights Act) prohibits discrimination on the­ground of race, color, or na­tional origin in any program or activity receiving federal fi­nancial assistance." 
"The Title six regulation in­cludes several provisions that prohibit recipients of Education Department funding from denying, restricting, or provid­ing different or segregated fi­nancial aid or other program benefits on the basis of race, color, or national origin," he wrote. 
Williams said the department had been handling complaints particular race." Institutions also can use "race neutral" cri­teria. 
Williams said that private in­dividuals can offer scholarships targeted to a particular race. However, that individual cannot receive any assistance from colleges and universities, such as help in soliciting appli­cants. 
Williams noted that the University of Colorado was found to be in compliance in a 1989 race-exclusive scholarship complaint. Under. the emerging policy. however. Williams said "that would be a wrong decision." 
year. The College of Business 
Administration enrolled 1.~26, 
up 2.1 percent; Engineering 
enrolled 939, up 1.6 percent 
and Science, at 799, down 4.7 
percent. 
Postbaccalaureate students totaled 2,492. Graduate School enrollment was 1,409. Law students totaled 566 and graduate business students numbered 517. Comparisons to last year's postbaccalaureate enrollment figures cannot easily be made because the Master of Science and Administration program, with 106 students, moved from the Graduate School to the 'graduate business program 
this year. 
Women, numbering at 3,648 

ND students. make up 36.4 
percent of the overall student 
body. 
International students com­

pose 2.1 percent of undergrad-· 
uate students and 19.1 percent 
of postbaccalaureate students. 
Catholics make· up 86.6 
percent of the undergraduate 
student body and 39.7 percent 
of the postbaccalaureate 
student body. 
(219) 67 4-9806 
Barb Johnson Osceola. IN 46561 
• 

JOHNSON SECRETARIAL SERVICE 
Pick-up & Defiller'l 
Typing/Word Processing Medical Transcription Business Reports 

~ou ve come a way 
Happy 21st Birthday Melissa Love, Mom and Dad, Mitch and Maria, Ryan and Christy, Re:ze, Zakand Sammy 
2/9/91 LS/\T 
Prep Classes 
Start 1/21/91 
m \outh !'\end.• 
'iit?,n up before thP holidays! 
I 7 I 7 [. South Rend Ave. South RPnd, IN 466 37 PHONE 219/272-4135 

Don.ate packs of Kool-Aid (25¢ ea.) or your spare change for the troops In Saudi Arabia. All donations will be sent on December 14th Granri.ties may be dropped offin designatedboxes in each ofthe donns. Faculty, Staff, and members ofthe SouthBendCommunity may donate at the LaFortune InformationDesk 
Help the American troops have a Thirstless Christmas! 
Pre-sweetened with NutraSweet ONLY 
For more information contact: Eiin L-avelle, SUB General Manager, x4172 Nicole Farmer, Multicultural Executive Council, x2877 
l.l~~:;l;~:~~~;~~~~~~~;_;:.~i..~~~~~····-·-·-·····-·······-··-······-·····-·..-··-· STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Thursday, December 13, 1990 

The Observer/Marguerite Shropp
Pottery sale 
ND graduate students Mariana Salazar (far left) and Laren Beebe (far right), along with senior Jean Hays handcrafted all of the pot­tery for the annual pottery sale. The sale will continue today, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
-

Looking For An Easy WayTo Earn Some Cash( 
Ifso, Observer Typesetting has the perfectjob for you. We are currently accepting applications for the position ofAccount Executive. As an Account Executive your only responsibility is to attract new clients. We'll take care of the rest 'Yhile you sit back and collect your paychecks each time that elient uses our services. 
Applicants should have some knowledge of Macintosh compu~ers. Desktop Publishing experience is preferred. 
If interested, please pick up an application at our·office, 314 LaFortune Student Center. Applications must be returned by Thursday, December 13, 1990. 
1111111111 

observer typesetting 1111111111 
The Observer 
page 5 

Bomb explodes on bus in Columbia 
MEDELLIN, Colombia (AP)­available on the circumstances A bomb exploded Wednesday of the attack nor on who was night in a bus carrying police responsible for the blast in officers, killing seven policemen Medellin, which is Colombia's and injuring four others in second largest city and home Medellin, officials said. base to the. world's most violent 
cocaine cartel. 
No details were immediately More than 250 police have 
Catholic theologians attack Vatican policies as they press for church reforms 
NEW YORK (AP) -·More than 400 American Roman Catholic theologians on Wednesday charged that the Vatican has been throttling church reforms and imposing "an excessive Roman centralization." 
The theologians contended the Vatican has undercut a greater role for women, vio­lated rights of theologians, slowed the ecumenical drive for Christian unity and undermined the collegial functioning of na­tional conferences of bishops. 
The "role of the local churches, of their bishops, and of the bishops' conferences is being diminished," the theolo­gians declared in a 2,400-word statement drawn up in 1 1/2 years of work. 
Seot to all American bishops by the Catholic Theological Society of America, the state­ment was approved by 431 of its 1,400 U.S. and Canadian members, which was 79 percent of a mailed response from 544 who replied. 
Father Walter Principe of Toronto, president of the soci­ety, said the support was greater than if the society had taken the action formally at a 
. 
I 

convention, since less than 300 usually attend. 
The theologians portrayed recent restrictive moves by the Vatican as failing to live up to the reforming vision of the Second Vatican Council of 1962­65. 
Issued on the 25th anniver­sary of the council's close, the theologians noted that it invited. all Christians to speak out "with that liberty and confidence which befits the children of God." 
They said Roman officials had put "unprecedented obliga­tions" on theologians, such as in a recently prescribed loyalty oath and profession of faith, and by treating "public dis­agreement with official teach­ing as defiance." 
Charging theological "narrowness of consultation" in the Vatican, the theologians said questions among them are "cut off prematurely" and dif­ferent levels of teachings ·"are presented as carrying the same authority." 
Procedures of the Vatican's doctrinal congregation, >headed by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, in investigating views of the­ologians "fail to honor funda­mental human rights and the safeguards" to protect them, the theologians said, adding: 
"The 'freedom of inquiry, thought and expression' neces­sary for serious theological scholarship ... and procedural traditions in our seminaries, colleges and universities which protect that freedom, have been called into question." 
The statement was drawn up by a committee, headed by Father John Boyle of the University of Iowa. A draft was discussed in June, with finish­ing touches put in by a 10­member board of directors be­fore it was mailed out for re­
.FLYING ROME FOR 
THE HOLIDAYS? 
UNITED LIMO The Easy Way To Fly 

Convenient Hourly Service To and From Midway & O'Hare 
Departs from Notre Dame Bus Shelter Fares: $27.00-One Way $50.00-Round Trip FOR SCHEDULE INFORMATION CALL 674-7000 
Reservations Accepted ...But Not Required 
,. 
been killed between August 1989 and July in bombings, shootings and attacks by hitmen hired by the Extraditables, who oppose the government's policy of extraditing Roted drug trafficking suspects to the United States to face trial. 
spouses. 
The theologians said that Roman curial officials "have impugned the authority of bishops' •conferences" in a "concentrated attempt to di­minish" their authority "in fa­vor of an excessive Roman cen­tralization." 
They said quality of the epis­copacy itself was being crimped by choosing bishops only of "prescribed positions," risking a "narrowing" of their caliber in which "needs of the local church appear to count for lit­tle." 
"Roman curial officials have criticized local bishops while bypassing them," the theolo­gians said, subjecting some of them to humiliating criticism, and also bowing to reactionary groups to undermine liturgicar reforms. 
Entitled "Do Not Extinguish the Spirit," the statement took its name from an admonition by St. Paul, the New Testament missionary-apostle. It says the Vatican ignores "signs of the times" regarding women. 
Development of "legitimate public roles for women in the church is being neglected," the theologians said, adding that this is pointed up by its contrast with the increasing prominence of women in most fields. 

Although recent bishops' re­flection and assignments have recognized a larger role for women and brought out the possibility of their ordination, the Vatican has firmly cut off such consideration, the theolo­gians said. 
"Rather than being viewed as a sign of the times, feminism is consistently viewed with suspi­cion, they said, adding that candidates for bishop "are screened to insure their unqualified opposition to the ordination of women." 
The Observer Thursday, December 13, 1990 
Bush signs order to raise government worker's pay 
WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush signed an exec-· utive order Wednesday that raises the pay of his vice presi­dent. Cabinet, members of the House, and top government ex­ecutives by tens of thousands of dollars apiece. 
Vice President Dan Quayle, House Speaker Thomas Foley and Chief Justice William Rehnquist all will be making $160,600 per year as of Jan. 1 after getting an approximately 29 percent pay raise. 
Bush's order provides a 4.1 percent across-the-board raise for all federal workers. Bush's own annual salary remains frozen at $200,000. 
Congress already has pro­vided money for the pay raises. Bush's order, which had been expected, was necessary to make it official. 
The 435 members of the House and several non-voting delegates will all be making $125,100 next year, while the 100 senators will be drawing $101,900. 
In addition to Rehnquist, all other members of the federal judiciary are in for a raise. Associate justices of the Supreme Court will receive $153,600; appeals court judges, $132,700; district judges. court of international trade and claims court judges, $125,100. 
The House voted itself a 25 percent increase in pay. plus a cost-of-living adjustment, in 


exchange for forgoing speech honoraria. The senators passed up the big pay raise but can still draw speech fees, up to a 
• maximum of about $27,500. 
House members earned 
$96,600 this year, while sena­
tors were paid $98,400. 
Raising the lid on the law­
makers' pay also ratchets up 
th~ civil service pay scales. 
Grade 18 civil servants, the top 
scale, will be paid up to 
$97,317, compared to a current 
maximum of $78,200. 
The government's top execu­
tives will ·be paid from 
$101,300 to $138,900. 
The pay scale for the 8,000­
member Senior Executive 
Service will start at $87,000 
and top out at $108,300. 
The Senate majority and mi­nority leaders, as well as the The Observer/Marguerite Schropp president pro tempore of the Hitting the books Senate, will be paid $113,400. 
Soph~more engineering students John Prette (left) and Frank Carrizo review their theology and philoso­
The House majority and mi­
phy material. Final exams will be held throughout the week of Dec. 17-21 for all ND students. 
nority leader will be paid $138,900. Retired fed·eral 'workers and military retirees will get a 5.4 
U.S. Army agrees to pact with Soviets 
percent cost-of-living raise in FREDERICK. Md. (AP) -The January, the same size raise U.S. Army has signed a pactthat the nation's 33 million with Soviet scientists to developSocial Security recipients are a vaccine to combat hemor-getting. rhagic fever, a deadly disease Bush's order also provides for found in Asia. the Soviet•Union 
8 percent extra pay raises for and elsewhere, the military said civil servants in the greater Wednesday.New York, San Francisco and 
It is the first agreement of its Los Angeles metropolitan areas kind between Army medical re-
because of the high cost of liv­searchers and a Soviet scientific 
ing there. 
SECURITY BEAT MONDAY, DEC.10 
3:12p.m. A Carroll resident reported the theft of his wallet from his person while in the South Dining Hall. 
3:58 p.m. A Dillon resident reported vandalism to his automobile white parked at O'Hare airport in Chicago. 
TUESDAY, DEC.11 
1:00 a.m. A Stanford resident reported receiving several obscene phone calls. 
2:20 p.m. A retired University faculty member reported the theft of his decal from a South Bend car wash. 
3:05 p.m. A Lewis resident reported the theft of two airline tickets belonging to a Grace resident and an off-campus resident from the fencing office in the JACC. 
4:00 p.m. A St. Edward's resident reported the theft of his wallet from an unlocked locker 
in the Rockne Memorial. 6:20p.m. Security responded to a reported fire west of Ironwood Road. 

. 

agency. 
Army scientists have devel­oped a vaccine that they believe will work against hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome. 

Under the agreement. Soviet the Army's lead laboratory in scientists will work with them medical defense against biolog­to refine the vaccine and test it ical weapons. but hemorrhagic on thousands of volunteers. fever is not considered a biolog­ical warfare threat, Monath 
"This kind of collaboration is said. The Army would use the another confirmation of the vaccine to protect soldiers de­openness that is developing and ployed in parts of the world the willingness to draw closer where the disease is prevalent. together on scientific matters. The World Health and other things," said Col. Organization estimates that Thomas Monath, chief of virol-100,000 to 500,000 cases of the 
-ogy at the U.S. Army Medical disease occur each year. The Research Institute of Infectious disease is a major health prob­Diseases. lem in the Soviet Union, Asia The Fort Detrick institute is and Scandinavia, Monath said. 
-·········································································· 
JACC PRO SHOP  
JACC FIELDHOUSE­ 
ENTER GATE 3  ·  
DECEMBER 13,  
12NOON-12MID NIGHT  
DOOR PRIZES EVERY QUARTER HOUR•  
10% OFF Regular Priced ICE RINK Pro Shop ITEMS  •  
Many More Items Drastically Reduced  
Door Prizes Given by Jansport and MVP  


• 
• 
• 
• 

Sale merchandise also available from Athletic Department Mail Order Eck Tennis Pro Shop and Golf Pro Shop 
·····················~····················································· 
.. r • rt .. ~ ... 

., ·1'--... ,·" ·, • 
Business 
Stronger dollar in late 1991 
NEW YORK (AP) -A prominent trade group pre­dicts that the nation will dip into a recession next year but says export growth and a strong dollar will brighten the economy by the summer. 
Tlw National Association of Purchasing Management is­sued its semiannual economic forecast TUt~sday. The report matches the views of many fi­nancial analysts who say the economy has entered a reces­sion or soon will slip into one. 
"The only difference I have with them is my recession has already started," said Edward Campbell, senior economist with thtl investment firm Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 
The trade group, which is composed of purchasing man-. 

agers at manufaeturing eom­panies nationwide and con­ducts regular research on the economy, reported its mem­bers were "extremely pes­simistic" about the economy for the first half of 1991. 
However, "purchasers ex­pect a recovery to begin in the later half of' the year fueled by continued relatively strong growth in exports and a de­clining trend ·in inflation," said Robert Bretz, chairper· son of the association's busi­ness survey committee. 
Overali economic growth will be 2.2 percent next year, with costs for wages and ben­efits rising 4.2 percent, the report predicted. Mild lnfla· tion is forecast, despite the run-up in oil prices spurred b the Persian Gulf crisis. 
The group's purchasing managers index for Novem­ber, first reported last week, stood at 41.3 percent-its lowest point in eight years. The index. developed in con­junction with the Commerce Department, gauges produc­tion, employment, new orders, vendor performance and in· ventory. 
Companies surveyed also re­ported they are operating at only 82 percent of their nor­mal capacity, down from 85 percent a year ago. 
Mike Penzer, senior economist for Bank of Amer­ica in San Francisco, agreed with the group's prediction of export growth and a stronger dollar next year. 
'Safe smoking' company closes 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -A agents that are produced when company which claimed to have tobacco is burned. a product to make cigarette The company announced smoking safer has shut down Monday that it was suspending its manufacturing plant, culmi-operations indefinitely at its naling a series of setbacks that Petersburg, Va., plant, which dogged the firm since its start made generic and private-label four years ago. cigarettes for foreign and do-
CA. Blockers of Louisville also mestic clients. is embroiled in a legal battle In a statement, the company with two University of said it had "exhausted all iden-Louisville scientists who devel-tified sources of financing" and oped the product, N-Bloctin. was unable to make past-due 
Company founder L. Douglas payments on the lease for the Keeney claimed that the sub-cigarette-manufacturing equip-stance, when added to ci-ment in Petersburg. garetti1S, would inhibit the for-CA. Blockers said that it lost malion of cancer-causing $3 million in the fiscal year that ended June 30. Its only remain­ing business activity relates to the ownership of the N-Bloctin additive, the firm said. 
The shutdown was the latest problem that arose for CA. Blockers since Keeney started the company in October 1986. 
The legal action involves two U of L toxicologists, William Waddell and his wife, Carolyn Marlowe, who developed N-· Bloctin. 
Blockers said it had legally obtained the right to use Wad-dell and Marlowe's substance. 
Tips on choosing the correct, diet program 
Special to The Observer Membership in a diet pro­gram can range from a few 
The Better Business Bureau dollars a week to thousands of has established guidelines for dollars over an extended period choosing safe and effective of time. Some programs charge weight-Joss programs. a set fee to be paid in advance 
Two of the most popular diet or in installments. Others programs are very low calorie charge on a "pay as you go" diets (VLCD) and food plan di-basis, or base fees on the ets. amount of weight that you 
VLCD programs are available want to lose. only through medically super-Be aware that there may be vised programs, such as physi-additional fees for pre-pack­dans or hospitals. They are aged food, supplements, vita­meant for those people who are mins, physician exams, counsel­severely overweight-30 per-ing sessions and various other cent or more above their ideal optional or required services. body weight. Before joining any weight-
The diet usually consists of a loss program, ask your doctor 400 to 800 calorie-a-day liquid whether that particular pro­diet formula as part of a 12 to gram is right for you. Some 16 week supplemented diet. diet programs pose a greater Weight loss in such programs health risk than others, such as is typically three pounds per VLCD programs. week for women and five Another consideration is pounds per week for men. whether a particular program 
Food plan diets follow a is conducive to your individual carefully controlled menu plan, lifestyle. For example, a college and may require participants to student may find it cumber­purchase specially packaged some, if not impossible, to stick meals available only from the to a program which requires company. Under this program, that one cooks all of his or her weight loss averages one or meals, or requires frequent and two pounds per week. necessary exams and counsel-
Other available programs in-ing sessions. l!lude self-help groups, which Check with your local Busi­focus on behavior modification ness Bureau for a reliability re­and group support, or plans port on the diet company. Also, that combine various methods check with your local or state of all these diets. health department to determine 
Before enrolling in any diet if the program and its person-program make certain you un-nel meet all state licensing re-der.stand all the costs involved. quirements. 
"A-;~~A ~r)"r~r~~~:~-)~..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)q..;~~~~~~~)q-~)G:-~R·~)q....~;.­
~  .  :  f  
iAA  Great  ift Idea  f ~ 1'.  
j!}l1  1991 Gift  f ff ff  
1  Calendars  f  
i  f  
i lii  Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  f f ff  



i 2nd Floor f
1 f
~~~~~-b(~~~~~~~~~~-b(~~~~~~~~~-'b(~~4.1rt~~~-Ut~~--b(~~ 
-----------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------.. 

page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .••••••••Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor .....•••....... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .......••.•. Amy Eckert Sports Editor .•••••.•............. Greg Guffey Production Manager •.•.••••••••• Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor•..•............. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ••••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....•......••......• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary•s Editor .••..... Corinne Pavlis Controller ......................• Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
r 
Thursday, December 13, 1990 


r 
~ 

r 
r 
-~~ 
==­

r 
r 
-) ~'-. --r
r r 
'J \ \
1 

r 
r 
r 
t. ,_, 1•• .-q · ) '----~(/;1
\
~ 

y _---..,_-...._(/'; /
\__ \1 ft.~~v 
1

~ l__.., • YJ.Ioll '------------------------~I':J._JI • 
Advent prayer cards 'God of War' image reflects a Christian fallacy 
Dear Editor: (at least in some respects) a 
Campus Ministry recently God of war?" If the model re­sent out a set of prayer cards in sponse of Christ is taken to preparation for Advent and heart, how can God be even re­Christmas. One of these spiri­motely viewed as a warring tual directives states, "God is: a God? The fallacy is obvious. God of Peace/ A God of War." Additionally, even if main­According to this pronounce­stream Catholicism has ac­ment, God, by definition, consti­cepted the concept of a "just tutes both the ideal of peace war" -due in part at least to and the tragedy of war. This is both the politicization of the striking, as its Manichean di­historical Church (e.g. the chotomy asserts a Divine per­Roman Empire) and the teach­spective which readily includes ings of Augustine, Aquinas and a manifestation of human im­the Old Testament-is this perfection, namely a propensity something to be proud of? To for war. be proclaimed? To be rein­
How valid is this Divine forced? To be engulfed in a dichotomy? A simple test is spiritual context? I do not be­easily discernible: In what lieve so. manner would Jesus "blessed John Doherty are the peacemakers" Christ Grace Hall react to the statement, "God is Dec. 5, 1990 
Correction 

A sentence was omitted from the final paragraph of the "Pro­life advocate stoops to life swapping" article that appeared in yesterday's Observer. The paragraph should have read: "How can the worth of human life be respected when that life is being subjected to human judgements of worth, through which many each day are brutally stripped of dignity? There must be some intractable guidelines over which human judgements and technological capabilities cannot claim control. Respect for the human right to live must begin at the beginning of life and not end until the l~st breath is drawn. Overstepping this boundary negates the absolute, leaving each and everyone of us at the mercy of the masses." 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

Right to life group retains right to act 
Dear Editor 
compelled to give funds to is a Catholic institution devoted 
I am writing in response to promote against, instead of just to promoting Catholic social the editorial entitled "Pasin and for, the homeless. actions, and the right to life is Tombar use fund~ unwisely" Just as the boxing club must one such action. ID-fact, the (The Observer, Dec. 4). The box, the Glee Club must sing, more "controversial and editorial was against Student The Observer must produce a divisive" the issue. the more Government funding an activity newspaper, and the Volunteers Notre Dame should make the of a registered student for the Homeless must help the Catholic position clear. organization (i.e. the ND/SMC homeless, so, too, must the In closing, the editors claimed Right to Life's bus trip to ND/SMC Right to Life defend the that Pasin and Tombar's Washington to participate in a right to life. "actions are not in the best pro-life rally). The Observer editors fail to interests of the student body." 
The Observer editors 'State understand that the ND/SMC Do the editors have the that they are against "the fact Right to Life is a registered authority to decide what is and that student funds will be used student organization. As such, is not in the best interest of the to promote one side and one the organization is entitled to s·tudent body? Ironically, The side only of such a controversial student activity funds. In fact, Observer editors regularly and divisive issue." Does this Student Government has an complain about this same mean the editors object to obligation to encourage the paterqalistic attitude with registered student activities of registered student regard to the Administration. As organizations receiving funds organizations. That is part of a member of the student body, I for their activities? Or does this their. function. Before the discount The Observer editors' mean the editors want the other editors publicly lynched Pasin claim. side, abortion:to be promoted and Tombar, they should have with student funds too? All this realized that Student Dan Foley under the demagogic guise of Government does not decide Off-campus "promoting free-thinking which student organizations Dec5, 1990 political debates." receive registration. Editor's Note: 
With similar reasoning, If the Observer editors The Editorial Board does not Student Government would not disagree with the registration of qyestion the Right to Life Clubs be allowed to promote or fund the ND/SMC Right to Life reception of University club activities of any other social student organization, they funds or its sponsorship of ac­action student organization. For should take their disagreement tivities such as the Washington instance, organizations such as to the appropriate protest. The editors· do dis­the Volunteers for the administrators and not blame agree, however, with Student Homeless. Homelessness, as you Student Government for Government using its resources know, is a controversial political funding a registered student to fund the Washington trip, issue too. At worst, Student organization's activities. particularly without the con­Government, according to the However, The Observer editors sent of either the cabinet or the editor's position, would be should realize that Notre Dame student body. 
Modern view of Christmas insults faith 
Dear Editor: the Angel Gabriel, "A child? My spirit of Christmas: a modern 
The Observer's Inside Column spouse a she, you say?/Both view." The true spirit of by Florentine Hoelker (Dec. 10) impossible, for my partner is Christmas shall not be found in contains tasteless remarks and gay." Afterwards, the Virgin Hoelker's writings, and, if this insults the Catholic faith. Mary supposedly said, "A son? was just a joke, I'm not laugh­
After confusing the What a joke! Oh, me you ing. Immaculate Conception with kill/With your humor. Don't you Rick Conners the Annunciation, Hoelker know I'm on the pill?" Alumni Hall quoted St. Joseph as saying to · The title of the article is "The Dec. 10, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5/R, ARe YOU AWARff I AM 
GOTA Of TH/5Sl3 TA/..K/NG 15 TH&ti& MOMtNT, CHRJ'5TMAS CARIJS A PROB­613NeRAL.~ THt M/3N HAVt' BCi3N £1M2 I G/37T/NGr . 
Y&5, 5/R.. I THINK lA/£ OlEHT 
70 ~ART !NTERPIC!l!VG 7HU1. 
5011t Of TH& CARJ)S f!fl V& {&.47&{) !<eAt. MO/?AU3 PROf3tCMS, .. 
'Those who race towards death. Those who wait. Those who worry.' 
Jim Morrison 


•

Accent 
Thursday, December 13, 1990 page 9 
H 
BY SHONDA WILSON elude Ron Bishop Johnson who Accent Writer will provide the invocation, Mistress of Ceremony Sister ands clasped and Bush and Father Alfred
Voices of Faith 
D'Alonzo who will give the
heads bowed in a 

benediction.
prayer for spiritual 
The concert could not be pos­unity the Notre Dame sible if it were not for the ef­

Gospel Ensemble
Voices of Faith Gospel 
forts of the choir's leaders.
Ensemble formed a full circle This year's new slate of officers around the Washington Hall 
include Leroy Mclnto~h and
gathers to sing praises 
auditorium in preparation for 
Andre Barrett as co-presidents:their final rehearsal before Andrea Settles as secretary and their annual concert this Sheri Barker as treasurer. evening at 7:00 in Washington Patti Cushing, the concert II all. coordinator who was
n~ 

The 11-year-old choir will responsible .for most of the provide a celebatory, praise­Mike Bush will provide melodic sound but also in how it spiri­concert will feature such arrangements, was assisted by filled concert with "llaving You notes on the keyboards and tually touches its audience and soloists as seniors Michele Cage Elizabeth Wynne and the choir Thflrn" as the thnme. This song Susan Loveless will play the lifts praises to God," said and Leslie Edwards and director Regina Steele. states well the purpose of the tenor saxophone. This addition Regina Steele, director of the introduce freshmen Torya Gospel choir: to the choir will give the choir choir. Tynes and Tiffani Dobbins. For Much work went into 
a new overall sound. "Our wish is that the spirit of the first time this year's concert organizing a choir that has We have rome to praise and "I just hope that this [the God touches someone," said co­will feature solely the Voices of grown from its original 13 magnify concert] can be the pinnacle of president Leroy Mcintosh. Faith Ensemble. members to 71. The choir has tht• Lord the choir's career, not only in Organized in two parts, the Other participants will in-progressed, however, in more for all that 1/e has dom• ways than size. and for the victory 
we have won. Participating in song services here at Notre Dame and in the Through this song of praise South Bend community, the the choir gives God the credit choir has plans to expand its for making "the difference" in travel radius. Next semester 
their lives. Nicole Jones, a the choir is planning to partici­mtHllbnr of thn 11-year old pate in a concert in New Jersey choir, explains. "This is not a and is hoping to be involved pnrformancn. We are here to with a musical that may be sing in praise of the word of aired on television. 
c;ml." Other future goals of the The twening promises to be choir include an eventual in­
spirit-lillnd, with songs that will vestment in robes. In addition, both touch and flneourage its they hope to increase relations audi11nce. The audience will with the administration. not only be entertained by the voie11s of the ensemble but will This year seems to be a year 
also experience the unique and of achievement and goal-setting rhythmie accompaniment of the for the choir. Hopefully the band. remainder of the year will 
With Jimmy Brown and Keith prove to be as successful as the Johnson on drums, Steve first half has proven to be. MarabiP playing bass guitar, Tickets for the concert will be and Brian MillPr on trumpet, on sale at the door. 
Next semester, a campus­

BY JEFF JOTZ protestors. There were. folks had heard little of our Upcoming events will include wide "Teach-In" will take placefrom all walks of life-Saint activities, and thus seemed a Candlelight Vigil sponsored
Accent Writer 
from January 21 to 24. For
Louis Quakers, clergy, grateful to know that we were by the Michiana Coalition for schoolchildren, senior citizens present at the demonstration. Justice and Peace. The vigil further information, contact 
E 
ight mflmbers of Notre Janet Meissner at 283-3943.
and even Palestinians and Sporting a big, white sheet will take place on DecemberDame's Gulf Crisis Filipinos opposed to the with a large blue and gold "ND" 14, 15 and 16. All in all. the regional demon­
Action Group military buildup. on top, many protestors were Lastly, on Friday, December stration against the military participat1~d in the re-The crowd broke into chants uplifted by our attendance and 14, a citizen delegation led by buildup in the Gulf successfully 
gional dnmonstration in drew together protestors from
of "No blood for oil" and "Hell gave us a beaming "All right Janet Meissner will visit Chieago against the military no, we won't go, we won't die Notre Dame" as we marched Congressman-Elect Tim all over the Midwest. buildup in the Gulf. on for Amoco," paralleling the down Michigan Avenue. Roemer and voice Notre The presence of hundreds of 
concerned students, highlighted 
Saturday, Decembnr 8. Vietnam War protests of the The rally was part of a series Dame's concern on the Gulf cri­A rally was h11ld at Daley '60s. of events sponsored by Notre sis. On Saturday. December 15, by Notre Dame's prominent at­
Plaza, followed by a march to Dame's Gulf Crisis Action between 3:00 p.m. and 5:00 tendance, gave an aura of hope Grant Park. A second rally "A lot of people are drawing Group. On Friday, December 7. p.m. on Grape Road in to the situation: if the American 
people speak loudly enough,
took place at Grant Park, and analogies to the '60s," com­a "rime Out" was held at Mishawaka, the human bill­President Bush might listen and the prot11stors then marched mented Janet Meissner, head of Fieldhouse Mall, drawing ap­board will return to raise the steer our country against itsback to Daley Plaza for the final Notre Dame's Gulf Crisis Action proximately 100 people and all community's awareness about belligerent foreign policy. 
spePches. Group. "While we draw inspira­three local television stations. the impending war. 
The event was well-covered tion from that, I think it's real by the local media, drawing the important that we not be ~ attention of all television and bogged down by it and consider nnws radio stations. along with our movement as a retrospec­snvnral of Chicago's newspa­tive. Students today have an pers. opportunity and responsibility 
A radio reporter from WMAQ to seriously analyze today's is­interviewed mn. asking about sues and to shape our own our group's presence at the identity and build our own rally. In addition, a newscaster movement." from WGN-TV interviewed Janet's opinion seemed to be Anne I !aynor. another member endorsed by the student pres­of the Gulf Crisis Action Group. ence at the demonstration. The 
The crowd that attended the Progressive Student Network rally was estimated to be be­and the Chicago Campuses twnen four and live thousand Against War (two of the rally's people. After the event, rally co-sponsors) attracted students organizers boasted that the from all around the Chicago Chicago march was the largest area. 
•
anti-war march in the nation to University of Wisconsin­date. Madison, Loyola University, 
This protest also drew a Knox College, University of myriad of interest groups, with Michigan. DePaul University studPnts and family members and Purdue University, among of U.S. soldiers in the Gulf others. made their voices 
......
com pri sing the rn aj ority of heard. dnmonstrators. After spending only a few 
• 
As a first-time participant in minutes at the rally. our group such events. I was quickly caught the attention of overwhelmnd by the support several other student and passion of my fellow organizations. Many of them 

Protesters gathered in Chicago last Saturday to demonstrate against the Gulf crisis. A group pf ND students joined several other college student protestors in the rally. 
page 10 ' The Observer Thursday, December 13, 1990 
•

Maryland, La. Tech rega1n respe.ct
usc 
continued from page 16 
But nothing worked. 
The 6-5 guard just took what was offered to him. When the dutside shot was open he would hit it. When the Irish took away the outside shot, he cut to the hole for the easy layup. 
"The thing with Harold is that I think that he really has started to understand patience, flow and shot selection," Trojan coach George Raveling said. "It's funny; he grabbed me by the pants at halftime and said, 'Coach, am I being patient enough on offense?' 
"He doesn't have to work so hard. on offense," Raveling continued. "It's like he's getting paid $1.50 and hour and he's giving five dollars an hour worth of work. Nobody in America does that." 
Miner was heavily recruited by Irish coach Digger Phelps. His mother is originally from South Bend and he still has family living in the area. Like Phelps said after the game, it's easy to see why Notre Dame wanted him here. 
"He's just a great scorer," Phelps said. "He's going to be one of the greatest scorers the game has seen because he's un­selfish and he's smooth the way he scores. He has a great re­lease, and whenever we tried to make a run Miner came through with the points they needed." 
The Trojan star is even polite. As he left the game he walked over to the Irish bench and shook the hands of Phelps and the rest of the coaching staff. It was the least he could have done for his exasperated oppo­nents. 
SHREVEPORT, La. (AP) ­The road to national recogni­tion takes Maryland (6-5) and Louisiana Tech (8-3) to the lndependenCfl Bowl. . 
Naturally, both coaches view the game as a steppingstone. 
"We will use this as a spring­board," Maryland coach Joe Krivak, his contract recently extended, said. "We are not there yet as consistent winners. Year in and year out, we play one of the toughest schedules in the nation and this team was able to accomplish its gpal of a bowl game." 
The Terrapins finished above .500 for the first time since 1985. And it took a 35-30 upset of then No. 8 Virginia to pull off the feat. The game against the Cavaliers was Maryland's sixth against a team ranked in the Top 25. ' 

And when the Terps did win, it wasn't in convincing fashion: Four victories came in the final two minutes. 
"This season has beim like a roller coaster," Krivak said. "But the critical thing is our players hung in there and stayed close enough in every game to be able to make those big late plays." 
Louisiana Tech, best known for having Terry Bradshaw as its quarterback in the late 1960s, made the postseason only after Baylor turned down an Independence Bowl invite and several SEC teams suffered late-season losses. 
Tech, located in nearby 
Ruston, returned to Division I-A last season after 13 years in Division II and 1-AA. They've been to the Independence Bowl twice before. 
"The bowl game is a big step for our program as far as moving back into Division I," said Tech coach Joe Raymond Peace. "We have tried to sell that we have a solid football team and a winning tradition and would be where we are given time." 
Tech, which has won five sjraight, dropped its three games by a total of 18 points . The last lost was 16-14 in early Octobet to then fifth-ranked Auburn when the Tigers' Jim Von Wyl kicked a 30-yard field goal with three seconds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

NOTICES  Now leasing lafayette Square  SKI BRECKENRIDGE CONDO -sleeps 6 28 Dec-4 Jan  HEART-SHAPED OPAL RNG W/2 DIA. CHIPS. COST $170-WILL SELL FOR $90.  ATIENTION JUNIORS: Stop by Career and Placement Services, lower-level Hesburgh  Holy Cross Hall Christmas dinner tonight. Meet on Hog Hill at 5:00.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 INTERESTED IN PURE, CLEAN DRINKING WATER IN YOUR  Townhomes 4 &5 bedroom apts.avcilable Less th111 1Mile from  $90 a night Fully Equipped CALL NOW-Cynthia 283-1348 FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE  LISA 259-6841. For Sale ­new Macintosh SE I'm graduating in December and  Library, to check the Summer Bulletin for job opportunities. We are now collecting resumes for companies who are recruiting on campus from Jan. 28 through Feb.  I NEED RIDERS FOR XMAS. GOING WEST ON I-BO AS FAR AS IOWA CITY (TO CEDAR  
OWN ROOM HERE AT ND? FOR INFO CALL x175B. TYPING -Students! Finals &  Notre Dome Features Include: ·Security Systems-Central Air  BRAND NEW CONDO AT OAKHILLI YOUR OWN BED/BATH. FREE LAUNDRY AND PARKING. CALL: 288-0792  still don't know or care how to use it. Great Shape! No printer though. $350 or best offer. CALL 284-4390 ­ask for MARY.  B, 1991. The deadline to submit you~ resume is December 14. Jeanne, If you don't write faster in the  FALLS). CALL FARIS@ 3082 Hello, Patrick Joseph Klein.  
term papers have you stressed out?l! Relax. Here's typing help. Early or last minute. $ Negotiable. Phone 234-4204. Ask for Maria or  -Washer &Dryer -Goad Neighborhood -Dishwashers Call 232·8256  3 BEDROOM HOUSE, BASEMENT, GARAGE. 18195 BULLA RD. $41 0/MONTH 256-9500 1-5.  U need 1 way plane ticket 1/15/91 from Newark or Cleveland to SoBend, call4800. Cheap!!! ND CLUB BUS TIX TO ROCH, NY  future, you'll be S.O.L in your 11 :00. Be nice to me or you'll have no more goddarn luch dates. Love, Arthur · P.S. The ballet should be really fun.  BABY PAT: Happy 19th Birthday! Congrats on  
leave message.  2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES  L: 12/21. CALL 289-5807  Seriously. I'm not kidding. Really.  NCCs-you were awesome! I'm  
FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON  glad you're here at ND. Good luck  
Typing  1 or 2 fem. roomates for next  425 MONTH+DEPOSIT  ZENITH Computer  RIDE NEEDED:  on finals-have a great b-day!  
Pickup & Delivery  semester in house-very cheap  232-3616  20 K Hard Drive  TO: MNBoston area  Stay out of trouble! Love, Gina  
277-7406  Kelly 234-5140 call by 12/21  2 Floppy Disk Drives  for Xmas break  xoxo  
Asking $600.  LEAVE: Friday after 1:OOpm  
$$FOR BOOKS  HOUSES AVAIL FOR 91-92 YR.  271-9314  Will pay 1/2 expense  
Used Texts bought and sold  5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE  CALL: Fred @ 1650  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  NEED RIDE back to midwest from  RATES. 232-1776.  FLO-YOU'RE QUITE WELCOME,  
corner ot NO ave and Howard  the Orange BowL $$$  Tickets  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RICH CASPAR  EVEN IF YOU ARE A DEMOCRAT  
\ LOST/FOUND I  Dylan 271-1773 after_6  1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm. house. Sale, turn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or  ORANGE BOWL TICKETS CALL (800) 226-8499  (a.k.a. Quick Dick)!!!!! Some etiquette suggestions for today:  
288-5653  -Quit mooning me while I'm on the  NEED A RIDE TO NY/RI AREA?  
FREE TIX TO ORANGE BOWL  Rider to Boston 12/20. 272-41 08  ORANGE BOWL TIX  phone with my parents.  Call X668B, Anna/2561938  
1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4,  317-879-8497  -You wouldn't have all these  (evn.), Paul. Leave 12.21 after  
Sorry -I have none -but I wanted to get your attention! I LOST a  •••• CINCINNATI  or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or  ORANGE BOWL UX'S. 50 YD.  anxieties if you'd bought her a DOZEN roses, and all pink, if you  5p.m.  
medium-sized silver crucifix  288-5653  LINE. (305) 891-0581.  ask me.  
earring. Since it doesn't seem to  I desparately need a ride to  -Just because I play the organ  Amy- 
be in my room, it's probably on first  Cincinnati on the friday of final  AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP  DOES NOT mean you can make  Thanks. What happened to my  
floor  week, and will certainly help with  Single 2-Room Apt.  AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO  disgusting double entendres about  .name?  
'brare, Hayes-Healy, or Siegfried.  gas'$. Please call Kristen  $125w/util.  LONDON, 26 DEC. TO B JAN.  it.  PJK  
It looks cheap, and it WAS, but it  McDonald at x2927.  15 min. walk from Campus  PHONE 233-3745.  -Vile bodily perorations do not  
has MUCH sentimental value. Please call 4832 if found. Reward  CINCINNATI ••••  Bob x3234  ORANGE BOWL TICKETS -good  become you. Neither do hackers. -Duck Tales are for ages 3-10. You  Attention: If you know who Sandra  
offered. Thanks!!!!  A quaint studio in lovely old  seats, cheap $65-total of 40 left ­ are now 18. Get rid of them.  Day O'Connor is, please call  
I need a ride to Philly area  mansion 1/2 mile from campus 225  guaranteed delivery-303-674­ Otherwise, best of everything on  Rachel at x4B46 and enlighten her.  
HELP! I STILL HAVEN'T FOUND  for x-mas break. Please!!!!  plus deposit please call 2888595  0450, mssg. HURRY  hitting Number 18!!!  
MY KEYS. SIX KEYS PLUS BIKE  Call Kathy x4238  STO LAT!!!!!I!!-from your arkie­ 
LOCK KEY ON PLASTIC  25 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS  musician-roommate-with-a-calling,  
ORANGE  WANTED: FEMALE  VERY CHEAP -NOTRE DAME  PETAH.  IRISH EXPRESS  
"NIKE" KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND,  Responsible Professional Seeking  UPPERCLASSMAN TO SHARE  SIDE  to Orange Bowl Dec. 29 to Jan 2  
PLEASE CALL BRYAN x4521  Housesitting Opportunity.  VERY NICE FAMILY-OWNED  303-442-8946.  ..LONG ISLAND BUS ..  Trip includes Round trip air from S .  
FOR REWARD!!!!  •  Available Jan-Aug '91. Call  HOME IN SECURE  Seats available-$100 RTJoni  Bend, hotel, tix and transfers. $729  
Kathleen, 234-0669.·  NEIGHBORHOOD. 7 MINS.  ORANGE BOWL CLASSIC 1991  1839, Janice 2993.  for info & reservations call  
FROM CAMPUS. $260/MO.  NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO  800-666-1304 or 289-8687  
LOST@ SIEGFRIED-FISHER  UTILITIES INCL. 234-5316 QR  3 DAYS/2 NIGHTS OF FUN AND  Attention all men of Morrissey:  
FORMAL FULL LENGTH NAVY  I need a ride to Cleveland on the  234-7587.  FOOTBALL IN MIAMI.  Keep your doors locked tonight and  
COAT. CALL 283-4909.  Friday of final week. I will help with  DECEMBER 31 -JANUARY 2  sleep with your backs away from  
REWARD!!!!  tolls and gas $$. Please call  PRIME GAME TICKETS -HOTEL  the wall, for you never know when  
Kathie @4045.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS TWO 3 BEDROOM HOMES WITH  ACCOMMODATIONS. ...NEW YEAR'S EVE  JOHN O'BRIEN may be coming back from Bridget's.  Mike Richardson and John Kroepfl like fat men with hairy backs. Tom  
I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski jacket with fluorescent blue  FOR RENT  WASHER AND DRYER 232-3616  CELEBRATION CRUISE ... $599.00 PER PERSON DOUBLE  hey JuDe  Gibbons is Milli Vanilli. Tim Rogers is still unemployed.  
and red stripes and a blue  OCCUPANCY LOW AIRFARE  
inner lining. If found please  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  FEMALE ROMMATE NEEDED  AND CAR RATES. CALL NOWI!  MERRY CHRISTMAS to 3rd Floor  
call Phil at x1436.  219-291-7153  FOR •  LIMITED AVAILABILITLY!f  Siegfried!!!  
CAMPUS VIEW APT CALL  OASIS TICKETS AND TOURS  To my little Indian,  
ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM.  BRIGID #2628  1-800-229-4493  For sale VW GTI '84  Get psyched for a night of culture  
! 100 DOLLAR REWARD !  6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS  for INFO. call255-2719  on Friday, I hope you don't get too  
Lost Wallet property of Eduardo Bocock. Contains vital  OR GROUPS. 232-1776.  FOR SALE  PERSONALS  MONDAY SPECIAL  turned on by the men in tights. I know you'lllove shopping with me  
Documentation. Urgent!  
 $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT  because I'm so good at making  
Please call 272-6562. No  PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD  ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET  hi ag  COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES  decisions about what to buy. I can't  
Questions Asked.  STUDENT, UTILITIES, $200/MO. SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON  FROM SB TO HOUSTON. LV.12/21, RET 12/30.$280.272­ ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay  277-1875 (Mondays Only)  wait 'till Friday ... see you and Butch in Chicago.  
FOUNtl... brown tortoiseshell  ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS.  9392 OR 654-7740.  on your own private yacht for only  Love and tongue kisses, your little  
glasses between Farley and  232-8444 noon-6.  $28.50/pp/day.  NEED RIDE TO /FROM PITI FOR  squaw  
B.P. about 2 wks. ago. x-4023  ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET  Special Air Fares, tool!  XMAS $JOANNE 1275  
FROM SB TO NEWARK N.J.  Call Easy Sailing for details  
•  WANTED  LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC HOME DOWNTOWN. AVAIL JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON­ LV. 12/22, RET.t/15,$230 CALL JOHN X1879  1 (800)780-4001' ••• TARA MCDONALD •••  IRISH MUSIC and DANCING with Seamaisin (Perplexed? Say, Hay Machine)  
Earn $300 tp $500 per week  SMOKERS ONLY.  FOR SALE NEW Macintosh SE  Thursday, Dec. 13th  
Reading Books at home. Call  I'm graduating in December and  HAPPY BIRTHDAY to you on  CLUB 23  
1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340  NEAR N.D comfortable, secure  haven't had the time or patience to  January 7. KM  
apt: 1 bdrm -$255  learn to use it. No printer. $350 or  ATIENTION JUNIORS:  
RIDE NEEDED:  dep., references 616-483-9572.  best offer by 12/13 4 p.m. Call  ••• TARA MCDONALD  Stop by Career and Placement  
.....  TO: MNBoston area  CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS  Mary @ 284-4390 NOW!  AVOID THE RUSH !  Services, lower-level Hesburgh Library, to check the Summer  
for Xmas break  FOR SALE NEW Macintosh SE  AVOID THE LINES !  Bulletin for job opportunities.  
RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR NEXT  I'm graduating in December and  
LEAVE: Friday after 1.:00pm  YEAR. CALL 272-1441 .  haven't had the time or patience to  PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS  We are now collecting resumes for  
share 1/2 expense CALL: Fred@ 1650  • Cooperative household seeks roommate. Near campus, cheap,  learn to use it. No printer. $350 or best offer by 12/13 4 p.m. Call Mary @ 284-4390 NOW!  GREETING CLASSIFIEDS SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, DEC. 14. DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE  companies who are recruiting on campus from Jan. 28 through Feb. 8,1991. The deadline to submit your resume is December 14.  For My Name After Break!!  
fun. 232-3330  BEFORE FINALS! II  


·~--------~~~ 
, 

Scoreboard
• 

IRISH IN THE NFL
WOMEN'S TOP 25 MEN'STOP25 
NHL STANDINGS 
1.-Virginia (6·0) did not play. Ne•r: vs. Sr. Francia, Pa, Wednesday, 12119. 2. Nonh Carolina Srare (6·0) did not play. Nexr: va. Robe~ Morris, Thursday, 12120. 3. Georgia (4.0) did not play. Nexr: at Clnclnnall, Thursday. 4. Purdue (4·0) did not play. Next: at W. Michigan, Sunday. 5. Auburn (4·1) did not play. Next: at 16 No~hwealern, Thursday. 6. Nonhwesrern (3·0) did nor play. Next: VI. 15 Auburn, Thun~day. 7. Louisiana Tech (3·1) did nor play. Nexl: al*l4 UNLV, Monday. 8. Mlulsslppl (5-0) did nor play. Nexr: ar 113 Ar1<ansas, Saturday. II. Penn Slale (5-0) did not play. Nexr: In lhe Golden Bear Classic, al Berkeley, Thursday, t 2120. 10. Tennesaee (3·2) did not play. Next: at Maine, Thursday. 11. Long Beach Slate (5-1) beat Southern Cal 71·61. Next: at W. Kentucky, Sunday. t 2. Stanford (3·2) did not play. Next In I he Cardinal Classic, Stanford, CA, Friday, 12121. 13. Arkanaas (7·1) did not play. Next vs. 18 Mlsslaalppl, Sarurday. 14. UNLV (4·0) did not play. Next; vs. 17 Loulalan Tech, Monday. 15. Iowa (5-t) did nor play. Next: va. Nebraska, Sunday. 16. Clemson (5·0) did not play. Nexr: vs. Augusra, Saturday. 17. Washington (5·1) did nor play. Next: vs. DePaul, Friday, 12121. t 8. Rurgera (5·0) did not play. Next: vs. Old Dominion, Saturday. 19. LSU (4·2) did nor play. Next: vs. Ohio Sr., Tuesday, 12118. 20. N. II II nola (6-t) did not play. Nexr: at Stephen F. Auolln, Tuesday, 12118. 21. Texas (2·3) did not play. Next: v1. DePaul. Saturday. 22. Providence (7·0) did not play. Next: TBA. 23. Connecllcul (5-2) did not play. Next: VI. Minnesota, Saturday.  1. UNLV (2·0) did not play. Next: vs. 121 Michigan St. al the Palace, Auburn Hills, Mich., Salurday. 2. Arkansas (8·1) did not play. Next: at Oregon, Saturday, 12122. 3. Syracuse (8·0) beat Canlslus 92·83. Next: vs. Long Beach St., Saturday. 4. Arizona (7·1) did not play. Nexr: vs. Providence, Sunday, 12123. 5. Georgetown (6.0) bea1 Sl. Leo 75-45. Next: vs. Texas-EI Paso, Saturday. 6. UCLA (6·0) did nor play. Next: al DePaul, Saturday. 7. Indiana (7·1) did not play. Next: VI. Western Michigan, Salurday. 8. Ohio Sr. (5·0) beat Wrlghl St. 90·60. Ne•l: al American U., Saturday. 9. North Carolina (5·1) did not play. Next: vs. •20 Alabama, Saturday. 10: Duke (6·2) did not play. Nexr: at Harvard, Wednesday, t2119. 11. Georgia (5·1) did not play. Next: at Miami, Fla., Friday. t2. LSU (4·t) did not play. Next: vo. Ar1<ansas St., Tuesday, t21t8. 13. Oklahoma (7·1) did nor play. Next: vs. Loyola Marymount. Saturday. 14. St. John's (7·0) did not play. Nexl: vs. Howard U .• Saturday. 15. Plnsliurgh (6· t) did not play. Next: vs. Robe~ Morris, Saturday. 16. Connecticut (5·1) beat New Hampshire 85­32. Next: vo. Falrlleid, Sunday, 12123. 17. Soulh Carolina (7·1) beat Furman 93·52. Next: vs. St. Joseph'o, Saturday, 12122. IR. Kentucky (4·t) did nor play. Nexr: vo. Tennessee-Channnooga. Saturday. t D. Virginia (5·2) did not play. Next: at Marshall, Toorsoay, ·12120. 20. Alabama (2·2) did not play. Next: at t9 No~h Carolina. Saturday. 21. Michigan St. (2·2) did nor play. Nexr: at Clnclnnall, Thur~day. 22. So. Mississippi (2·1) did not play. Next: VI. NE Louisiana. Saturday.  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlelon w l T NY Ranger~ 18 11 5 Philadelphia 18 14 2 Washlnglon t8 15 0 New Jen~ey 16 t2 4 Pittsburgh 12 16 3 NY Islander~ 10 17 2 Adama Dlvlalon Boston 17 10 4 Montreal 16 • 14 3 Hartford 13 14 4 Buffalo 10 13 7 Quebec 7 19 6 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrla Dlvlalon w l T Chicago 21 10 2 Sr. Louis 17 9 4 Detroit 14 13 4 Minnesota 9 17 6 Toronto 8 24 1 Smythe Dlvlalon Calgary 18 tO 4 LoS Angeles 16 8 5 Vancouver 14 14 3 Edmonlon 11 15 2 Winnipeg 9 17 7 Tuead•y'a L•te G•rrNI N.Y. Ranger~ 6, Loa Angeles 4 Wednead•y'e Gamaa late Game Not Included Boston 5, Hartford 1 Toronto 4, Montreal 1 Vancouver al Edmonton, (n) Thuraday'a Gomaa Hanford at Boston, 7:35p.m. Quebec al Detrott, 7:35p.m.  Pte 41 38 36 36 27 22 38 35 30 27 20 Pta 44 38 32 24 17 40 37 31 24 25  GF GA 130 103 1t9 112 112 100 124 107 120 121 78 106 102 98 105 103 89 99 92 99 90 137 GF GA 111 80 103 83 116 116 92 t06 88 140 134 103 121 95 95 103 86 84 106 t19  Home 10·4·2 10·7-1 9-6.() 11·3-3 6·9-1 6·8·1 7-4·2 10·6-1 6·8·3 4-4·5 2·9-4 Home 10-5-1 8-3-4 12·5·0 6-9-2 5-13-1 8-4·1 11·3·3 8·5-t 7·7·1 6·8·2  Away 8-7·3 8·7·t g.g.() 5-9·t 6·7·2 4-9-1 10·6·2 7·8·2 7-6-1 6-9-2 5-10.2 Away 11·5-1 9-6.{) 2·8-4 3-8-4 3-11·0 9·6·3 5-5-2 8-9·2 4-8·1 3·9·5  Dlv 5-6-2 8-8·2 10-8-0 8·7·2 8-6.() 4-8-2 7·5-2 10·4·2 6-7·3 3-7·3 3-5-4 Dlv 8-4.() 8-4·1 8·5·2 1·8·2 4-8-1 8·1-1 4·3-3 3-6.() 1-7·2 5-4-4  Poe. Atlante Falcona Mi<e Gann DE John Scully OL Chicago Beora Mar1< Green RB Cinclnnotl Bengala Mike Brennan OT Cleveland Browne Robert Banks DE Dallaa Cowboya Stan Smagala DB Green Bay Packer• Blair Klel Cl3 Houeton Ollere Jeff Aim DT Allen PinkeR RB lndlanapolla Colla Anthony Johnson RB Kanua City Chlefa Tim Grunhard 00 Loa Angelea R•ldere Greg Bell RB Sieve Bauerlein Cl3 Tim Brown \1\A BobGolic NT Loa Angelee R•m• Pete Holohan .TE Frank Starns DE Pat Terrell DB Minneaot• Vlklnga Pat Eilers \1\A Dave Hultman OL New York Glonta Marl< Bavaro TE Eric Dorsey DT Dave Duer1on s Tom Rehder OT Philadelphia Eaglea MikeGolic DT Phoenix Cardinale Bob Clasby DT Pittsburgh Steelere Chuck Lanza c  Rookie Seuon 1985 1981 1989 1990 1968 1990 1984 1990 1968 1990 1990 1984 1987 1987 1979 1981 1989 1990 1990 1979 1985 t986 1983 1968 1985 1986 1968  1880 S•lary $475.000 $350,000 $110,000 $202,500 $295,000 $171,800 $270,000 $487,500 $490,000 $540,500 $497,500 $700,000 $400,000 $500,000 $650,000 $325,000 $185,000 $435,000 $65,000 $220,000 $700,000 $475,000 $650,000 $350,000 $195,000 $365,000 $182,500  
24. Oklahoma Srare (6·0) did nor play. Nexr: at Wyoming, Saturday.  23. Georgia Tech (3-2) did not play. Next: at Temple, Saturday.  N.Y. Islanders at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m.  San Diego Charger• Cedric Figaro LB  1968  $237,500  
25. Maryland (5·3) beat Howard U. 90-70. Nexr: TBA  24. Easl Tennessee Sr. (6·1) did not play. Next: at George Mason, Saturday.  Winnipeg at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Minnesota al St. Louis, 8:35p.m.  San Francleco 49era Joe Montana Cl3  1979  $4,000,000  
WOMEN'S SCORES  25. Texas (3·2) did not play. Nexl: at UC Sanla Barbara, Tuesday, 12118. NCAA MEN'S SCORES  Calgary at Los Angeles, t0:35 p.m.  Seattle Seahewke Ned Bolcar LB Wuhlngton Redaklna Joe Howard \1\A D'Juan Francisco DB  1990 1989 1990  St27,000 $215,000 S94,000  
EAST • Allegheny 69, Grove cny 65 Army 71, Sl. Francis, N.Y. 60 Brool<lyn Col. 811, Alder 84  EAST Allegheny 72, Grove Ctty 71 Bethany, W.Va. 78, Lake Erie 73 Broct<pon St. 67, Houghton 86 Charleston, W.Va. 90. Bluefield St. 79  NBA STANDINGS  The Buffalo Billa, Denver Broncoa, Detroit Lions, Miami Dolphlna, New England Patriots, New Orleana Salnta, New Yorfc Jete,•nd Tampa Bay Buccaneer• hove no former Irish on their roetera.  
Cheyney 67, N.Y. Tech 58 Eastern 68, Wesley 68  Connecticut 85, N-Hampshire 32 Daemen 123, Lock Haven t14  EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Hartford 59, Mas1achuaena 42  Gannon 74, Mercyhurat 60  Atl•ntlc  Dlvlalon  
Md.·BaHimore County 63, Morgan Sr. 43 Montclair St. 68, Jeraey City St. 48 NYU 68, CCNY 38 Pace 57, Springfield 53 Phlla. Textile 68. E. Stroudsburg 41  Georgetown 75, St. Leo 45 Jersey Clly St. 84, Montclalr St. 65 Maine 87, Drexel 82 N.Y. Tech 80, Old Westbury 78 Radford 107, Cent. Connecticut Sl. 100  Boston Philadelphia N-Jer1ey N-York  w 17 14 8 8  L 4 7 11 11  Pet .810 .667 .421 .421  GB 3 8 8  L10 8·2 7·3 6·4 2·8  Strk Won2 Lost 1 Wont Wont  Home 10-1 10.2 6·4 4·6  Aw•y 7·3 4·5 2·7 4·5  Coni 1().3 11·5 4·8 5·7  TRANSACTIONS  
Sr. Elizabeth 71, Centenary 54 Weer Chesler 82, Adelphi 72 Wrn. Panerson 68, Ramapo 44  Ramapo 78, Wm. Paten~on 71 S. Maine 69, Bridg-ater,Mass. 58 Seton Hall 81, Villanova 77  Washington 6 Miami 5 Central Dlvlelon  t4 14  .300 .263  tO 112 11  4·6 2·8  Lost3 Lost 5  4·3 4·7  2·11 1·7  4-9 4·10  BASEBALL American le•gua CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Signed  Floyd  
SOUTH Armstrong St. 83, Sr. Leo 48 Appalachian St. 93, Radford 80 VanderbiH 80, Evansville 64  Skidmore 7t, New Pallz St. 56 Syracuse 92, Canlslus 83 W. Connectlcul 87, Manhananvllle 74 Widener 67, Phi/a. Pharmacy 65, 20T Yeshiva 74. N.Y. Maritime 56  Milwaukee Detroit Chicago Cleveland Atlanta  t5 14 t2 tO 8  7 7 8 11 t1  .682 .667 .600 .476 .421  tl2 2 4 112 5112  6·4 5·5 7·3 3·7 4·6  Lost 1 Lost I Los12 lost 3 Won2  11.() 8·t 5·3 6·4 3-6  4·7 6·6 7·5 4·7 5·5  12·7 1,., 6-4 8·9 3-10  Bannister, pitcher, to a one-year contract. TEXAS RANGERS-Traded Scon Coolbaugh, lhlrd baseman, to the San Diego Padrea tor Mark Parent, catcher. N•llonal League  
Weer Georgia 80, Vaidoala St. 86  Yor1<. N.Y. 84, Gallaudel74  Charlotte  8  12  .400  6  3·7  Lost 5  5·4  3·8  7·6  PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Signed Gary Redua,  
MIDWEST Neb.·Omaha 74, Kearney St. 71 onerbeln 72, Hifam Col. 65 Sr. Ambrose 82, Maryaest 39 South Dakota 99, Wayne, Neb. 95, OT  SOUTH CafT¢911 74, Howard U. 73 Claflin 85, S. Carolina Sr. 69 Columbus t 14, Georgia Coli. t01 Florida Allantic 93, Nova 72  Indiana 8 14 .364 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweet Dlvlelon w l Pet San Anlonlo t2 5 .706  7 GB  3·7 L10 7·3  los12 Strk Won3  8·3 Home 7·1  ().11 Away 5·4  5·9 Coni 9·4  llmt baseman-ou"lelder, to a tw<>-yoar contract plus an option year. Promoted Cam Bonifay from director of scouting to aoslatant general manager. Named John Slrlgnano assistant In the minor league and scouting depanmenr. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Named Dave Bialas  
Washington, Mo. 81, McKendree 70 William Penn 67, Cornen. Iowa 53  Guilford 7t, Ferrum 68 Louisville 94, DePaul 75  Utah Houston  t3 t2  7 9  .650 .571  112 2  9·t 6·4  Won5 Won 1  9·2 8·3  4·5 4·6  11-4 8·5  manager of St. Petersburg of the Flortda Stale League.  
SOUTHWEST Colorado 76, Wyoming 46 Huaton· Tlllotoon 85, St. Mary's, Texas 72 Oklahoma 82, Pralrte VI-A&M 68 NOTRE DAME BOX TROJANS 105, IRISH 85 Southern C•l (105) Coleman 6·11 3-4 t 5, Boyd 3-7 0.() 6. Cooper 2· 6 3·5 7, Pack 6-9 10·12 24, Miner 13·21 6·8 35 Chatman Q.t 0·0 0. Glenn 1·2 0·0 3. Sanders 4-S 3-4 1t. Robinson 0.0 0·0 0, Conger 2·!1 0.0 4. Totolo 37·68 25-33 105. Notre Do""' (115) Ellla 1t·t6 5-7 28, Ellery 3-8 Q.O 6, Tower 1·2 0.0 2, Bannan 10·18 7·8 27, Sweet 2·8 2·2 6, Boyer 2· 3 2·2 7, Adamson J.1 0.0 3. Cozen 3-4 0.0 8. Joe Roao 1·1 0.1 2, Jon Roao Hl4·7 6, Tot•I• 35-67 2Q.27 115.  NW Louisiana 68, Wiley 59 New Orleans 68, Oregon Sr. 64, OT MIDWEST Ball Sr. 94, Valparaiso 58 Buena Vista 84, Dordt 81 Calvin 68, No~hwd, Mich. 54 E. Illinois 67, Wla.·MIIwaukee 59 E. Michigan 87, Cleveland St. 75 Eureka 81, Iowa Weslyn 45 Hiram Col. 79, ORerbeln 77 Indiana Tech 84, Blutfton 63 Mankalo Sl. 81. SW MlnnOBOta 64 Michigan 102, Chicago St. 78 Mlaaourl 76, Bradley 60 Musklngum 46, Ohio Nonhern 44 No~hern St.,S.D. 54, Minot St. 53 Ohio St. 90, Wrlghl Sr. 60 Olivet 80, Aquinas 75 Ripon 91,'Rocktord 64 Rose:Hulman 84, Earlham 64 SW Missouri St. 65, Mo.-Kansas CHy 51 Southern Cal 105, Notre Dame 95 Walsh 111, Dyke 60 Wis.·Eau Claire 84, Moun! Senarlo 71 Wis.·Whttewaler 110, Wis.·Par1<side 86 Wooster 68, Tiffin 69  Dallas 7 tt .389 Minnesota 7 12 .368 Denver 5 15 .250 Orlan<fo 5 16 .238 Pacific Dlvlelon Penland t9 1 .950 LA Laker~ 11 7 .6tt Phoenix t1 7 .6t1 Golden State t2 8 .600 LA Clippers tO 10 .500 Seattle 6 12 .333 Sacramenlo 3 15 .167 Wedneaday'a Gamea Boston 129, Milwaukee 111 San Antonio 92, Charlotte 81 LA Clipper~ 100, Cleveland 90 Atlanta 118, Miami 93 Houston 108. Philadelphia 100 SeaRle 99, Indiana 90 Dallas 112, LA Lakem 97, OT Thuraday'a GarrNie N-Jersey at Atlanla. 7:30p.m. N-Yor1< at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Orlando at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Denver at Utah, 9:30p.m.  5 112 6 8112 9 7 7 7 9 12 15  2·8 4·6 4·6 2·8 9·1 8·2 6·4 5·5 s:5 2·8 2·8  Wont Wont Won2 Lost 2 Won8 Lost 1 Won3 Lost 1 Wont Won 1 los12  4·5 5·4 4·6 4·6 11-1 7·4 6·3 7·2 8·4 4·5· 2·8  3·6 2·8 1·9 1-10 8·0 4-3 5·4 5·6 2·6 2·7 1·9  5-9 5·9 .3-11 3-11 12·1 9·6 9·4 7·5 8·7 2·7 1·9  BASKETBALL Continental Baaketb•ll Aaaoclallon CEDAR RAPIOS SILVER BULLETS-Signed Bon Gillery, center. Placed Tony Manln, lorward, on the Injury Nat. FOOTBALL National Football league ATLANTA FALCONS-Signed Gllben Renlroe, quanerback; Rickey Royal, cornerback; and William Kirksey, linebacker, and placed !hem on the practice squad. Placed William Evera, defensive back, and Donnie Salum. linebacker, on Injured reserve. Waived Todd Hammel, quarterback. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Placed Scan Schwede&, wide receiver, on Injured reserve. Re-signed Dennis McKinnon, wide reclever. Activated Barry Krauss, linebacker, -and Michael McGruder, cornerback, from Injured reserve, and placed them on the practice roster. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Announced the resignation of Charlie Sumner, defensive coordinator. ' COLLEGE  
Halhlme-Southern Cal 46 Notre Dame 29. 3­polnt goals-Southern Cal 6·18 (Cooper 0.3, Pack 2·5, Miner 3·9, Glenn 1·1), Notre Dame 5-11 (Ellis 1·2, Elery 0.2, Bennett 0.1, Boyer t ·2, Adamson 1· t, Cozen 2·3). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Southern Cal 34 (Coleman, Miner 9), Notre Dame 34 ( Ellis t 5). Assisla-Southern Cal 19 (Cooper 8), Notre Dame 13 (Bennen 4). Total toula­Southem Cal20, Notre Dame 22. A-9,501.  SOUTHWEST Texas A&M 70, Texas Southern 61 Texas-San Anlonlo 103, Texas-Arlington 83 Tulsa 72, Kanaas St. 61 FAR WEST Arizona Sr. 82, Brigham Young 74 Chiao St. 67, St. Mary's, Cal. 64 Concordia, Neb. 100. Dakota Weslyn 77 Long Beach St. 68, Northridge Sl. 73  SeaRle al Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Po~land at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Frlday'a Gamaa San Antonio ar Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Miami al Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Detroit at Boslon, 8 p.m. Houslon at Washlnglon, 8 p.m. LA Clipper~ at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Dallas at Portland, t0:30 p.rn  TRANS AMERICA ATHLETIC CONFERENCE­Announced the resignation of Steve Argo, oporto Information director and compliance coordinator, effective Dec. 31; and Michael Manln. oport1 Information Intern, effective Dec. 14. APPALACHIAN STATE-Named Roache! Laney athletic director. NORTHEASTERN-Named Barry Gallup football coach.  
Monlana 104, U.S. lnlernational 86  
Texas Christian 70, N. Arizona 51  
Wyoming 62, Colorado 60  •  

B travelmore 
~Carlson Travel Network 
A T T E N T I 0 N F A C U L T Y, S T A F F, S T U D E N T S 
We are moving our present office from LaFortune to 1725 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank's Red Hots) beginning January 2, 1991. PLEASE CALL 284.. 2051 OR 1 ..80Q.. 232.. 2681 
WATCH FOR OUR GRAND OPENING DRAWING 

loss to Penn State only a week later, however, dropped the Irish to No. 7 in the Associated Press poll and raised doubts about their claim to the na­tional title. They moved back up two notches thanks to a win over USC on Nov. 24 and losses by Florida and Brigham Young the following week. 
"Do we have a chance (at the national championship)?" Holtz asked. "Yes. How good of a chance? I don't know. Does Richard Nixon have a chance to be president? Yes. How much of a chance? I don't know." . Even if No. 3 Texas beats No. 4 Miami in the Cotton Bowl and No. 2 Georgia Tech defeats No. 19 Nebraska in the Citrus Bowl, Holtz believes his team will be mentally prepared for Colorado. 
"We aren't gonna cancel," he said. "We're going to go out there and play. We've worked hard to get here." 
Notre Dame received word from team doctors that All­Americans Chris Zorich and Raghib Ismail were cleared to practice on Wednesday after missing the first few days of practice in preparation for the Orange Bowl due to lingering injuries. 
Nose tackle Zorich, who was named the '90 Lombardi Award winner last Thursday, dislo­cated his right kneecap in the Oct. 27 Pittsburgh game. 
Reisman Trophy runner-up Ismail missed large parts of the Stanford and Penn State games with a thigh bruise originally suffered in the Sept. 22 Michigan State game. 
Free safety Tom Carter, who started six games for the Irish this season, injured his ankle playing basketball after the USC game. He is expected to miss much practice time this month and may not be available for the Orange Bowl game. 

After Wednesday's press con­ference, it appears that Holtz will continue to play musical chairs in the defensive sec­ondary. 
Reggie Brooks, who started three games at short corner­back after being moved from the offensive backfield in spring practice, is getting another look at running back. 
Freshmen Willie Clark and Jeff Burris, meanwhile, will re­main in the defensive secondary at least for the Orange Bowl game. Clark earned the starting nod1at free safety for the final two regular­season games, and Burris has split time with Rod Smith at the short cornerback spot. 
Rumors of Holtz leaving Notre Dame for the National Football League have become commonplace over the past two years. Holtz, however, has been just as resourceful in combat­ting such talk. 
"Last year, the rumors were really running rampant," the fifth-year Irish coach said Wednesday. "You hear rumors and there's absolutely no rea­son for them. I have not talked to other people, nor do I plan to taJk to other people. 
Holtz has said repeatedly that he will remain at Notre Dame as long as the University wel­comes him back. 
"I will not leave here unless they, change the locks," Holtz says. "As long as the key turns, you feel you've still got a job." 
CBS sports $55 million loss 
NEW YOHK (AP) -CBS admitted on Wednesday to los­ing $55 million in the first year of its contract with major league baseball while denying persistent rumors that it may cost the network's sports pres­ident, Neal Pilson, his job. 
"Neal is not" in trouble," said George Schweitzer, a spokesman for CBS Inc. "And I say that emphatically. We all supported the baseball deci­sion. 
"That's one nice thing about CBS. Nobody points fingers. The baseball contract was a collaborative decision. We feel very positive about having baseball. We just feel very dis­appointed about the market­place." 
The $55 million loss was computed after taxes. Industry analysts earlier predicted that the losses could top $100 mil­lion. 
At the same time, the network also said it would write off $115 million more in losses over the remaining three years of the baseball contract, 
AP Photo
which was for $1.06 billion over four years. 1990 was the -Cincinnati's four-game sweep of the Oakland A's did not help CBS' first year of the contract. financial situation, as the network lost $55 million on baseball in 1990. 

loss would be its first for any 
CBS Inc. also announced an quarter, excluding a restated offer to buy back $2 billim:i of loss in the fourth quarter of its own stock. The company 1986. said it would repurchase up to 
10.5 million shares of its com­The network's losses on mon stock at $190 per share, a baseball were attributed to a significant premium over general downturn in the econ-recent prices. amy, resulting in lower adver­tising prices and poor World 
CBS' stock was hit hard re-Series ratings for Cincinnati's cently by the network's disclo-four-game sweep of Oakland. sure that it wt"luld report a loss for the fourth quarter and Schweitzer said the losses lower earnings in 1991. The would have no affect on CBS Sports' programming. 
"This is happening in the ac­counting rooms and not in the control rooms " Schweitzer
1
said. 

"Baseball is still every bit as exciting as it was when we pur­chased it. It's just that the marketplace is not as exciting. We were hit squarely with a collapsed sports advertising market, and we paid the price. But the viewers will not pay any price. 
.................................................
. •
•

i NOTRE DAME ~ i i "VOICES OF FAITH" i i GOSPEL ENSEMBLE i i LIVE IN CONCERT I 
•: TIME: TONIGHT Thursday, December 13th •: • PLACE: WASHINGTONHALL •
i. :
COST: $1.00 students • $2.00 non-students • : $2.50 non-students at the door : 
: *TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK : 
.• ~ .•
i (./fJ#te frJUe @ tU ~ 4-UuJ i 
i ta ~ LfJIZd. -i 
....................................................~ 
r-----------------~------------------------------~---------­
------~----­
Thursday, December 13, 1990 The Observer 
Davis doubtful as Irish host TCU 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's bask1~tball team faees the Texas Christian Lady Frogs tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC in the third game of its current home stand. . 
The Irish (2-3) come into tonight's game off a 71-66 vic­tory ovP.r Syraeusn which broke a thren-gamn losing streak. 
Irish head eoach Muffet McGraw is looking for an all­around effort tonight, in eon­trast with Notrn Dame's first two gamns of the homn stand. 
"I -thought in the Indiana game (a 79-76 loss) we played well on offense, and against Syracuse, we played well on de-
GENUINE 
BUFFALO 
JERKY 
*GREAT* STOCKING STUFFERS
*EXCELLENT * 
ORANGE BOWL SNACKS 
DELICIOUS LESS CHOLESTEROL MORt: PROTEIN 
4 PIECE SAMPLE-$5.00 20 PIECES-$22.50 40 PIECES-$39.00 

Send Check or Money Order To: 
BUFFALO TRADERS 
P.O. Box 780522 Wichita, Kansas 67278 

fense," McGraw said. "We just need to put the two together in one game." 
The Lady Frogs defeated Texas-Arlington 70-64 on Tuesday to improve their record to 3-4. TCU is led by 5­11 forward Liz-Zeller (14.8 points per game, 8.8 rebounds) and 6-2 center Joi Wells (13.7 ppg. 7.2 rpg). 
TCU is a poor shooting team ­only 35.7 percent for the year. Teams have been outscoring the Lady Frogs by an average of 8.6 points. 
Like Syracuse, the Lady Frogs are suspect at the guard posi­tion and could be susceptible to the Irish press, which forced 24 Orangewomen turnovers. Both Aprii Ham and Rachel Hesse, TCU's starters, have more turnovers than assists. Hesse, however, does have quick hands, a:s her 3.9 steals per game attests. 
Irish forward Krissi Davis is questionable for tonight's game after sustaining a knee injury in the Syracuse game. McGraw has not decided on who she would start if Davis cannot play. 
Comalita Haysbert once again may be called upon to pick up some of the slack from Davis' absence. Haysbert had a ca­reer-high 26 points against Syracuse, and the team needs anflther strong showing from her if it expects to beat TCU. 
"We need her to score and to rebound," McGraw said. "She creates problems for the de­fense, because lots of teams don't have someone who can stop her." 
Karen Hobinson will be the go-to player for Notre Dame. Even though opponents have 
Happy:Zist 
birthday, 
BOWL TOURNAMENT 
DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES IS JANUARY 17,1991 
SEND TEAM ROSTERS TO: DR. PETER LOMBARDO CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION NOTRE DAME 
CALL 239-6691 FOR 
INFORMATION 
been keying on her, Robinson 
· leads the team in scoring ( 19.4 ppg). assists (5 .4). and steals (2.8). Lately, she has not been looking for her shot quite as often, but neither Robinson nor McGraw are concerned. "I feel like we need to get ev­eryone involved in the offense," Robinson said. "If they're going to guard me on the outside, then someone is going to be open." "I think Karen is an intelli­gent player," McGraw sa1d. "Teams have been keying on her, coming in and saying, 'We're not going to let her beat us.' "Also, we're not running as much, and she scores a lot on the transition. It's not that she's passing up good shots, so much as she's making the smart play." After the Syracuse game, McGraw expressed concern about her team's play down the stretch in the past few games. "It got very sloppy in the sec­ond half when we should have been playing like the veteran team that we are," McGraw said. "We were making bad de­cisions . . . making bad passes, and we weren't using the clock. We weren't playing smart, and that's been our problem the last couple of games." With finals and Christmas break on the horizon, one might expect a mental letdown from the Irish. McGraw, how­ever, expects that her team will be ready for the Lady Frogs. "They've been working hard in practice," McGraw said. "They know they haven't clicked yet, aren't totally in synch. They're waiting to explode." 

AP Photo Ivan Lend! advanced to the quarterfinals of the Grand Slam Cup in Munich Wednasday by defeating Christian Bergstrom 6-4, 6-0. 
Rockets' frustration at Spectrum ends; Spurs by 11 over Hornets 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The Houston Rockets broke a 16­year, 23-game losing streak at the Spectrum as Akeem Olajuwon had 29 points and 15 rebo\lnds in a 108-100 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
The Rockets' last victory in Philadelphia was on Jan. 2, 1974. 
Houston led by as many as 21 points in the second quarter and held an 89-73 lead at the end of three periods. 
The 76ers closrd to 99-90 on a layup by Mike Gminski with 
2:27 to go, but Larry Smith and Kenny Smith scored four points eaeh in an 8-2 run that put the game out of reach. 
Charles Barkley had 29 points and Hersey Hawkins 19 for Philadelphia, which had its four-game winning streak snapped and lost for only the second time in 1 0 home games this season. 
Spurs 92, Hornets 81 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP)­David Robinson had 24 points and 17 rebounds as San Antonio handed Charlotte its fifth straight loss. 
The Spurs, who won their third straight game and have a half-game advantage over the Utah Jazz in the Midwest Division, trailed just once in the game despite making only 44 percent of their shots. But the Hornets managed to hit just 40 percent. 
• 
• I 
i I I I 
I I I I I I I 
I I I 
J 
I I I I 

.. 
... 

Nappy 18tfi 'Birtfufay 
Scott Sauer 
Love, 

Mom, Dad and Kristen The Sauers The Wilverts The Forchiellis Grammie and Nonnie 

Where It's 
Happening... 
Daily: 4:30 p.m.-11 :00 p.m. 
Ladies' Night 
Every Wednesday: 8:30 p.m.-Mid. 
Entertainment 
Tue.-Sat.: 9:00 p.m.-2:00a.m. 
r---------------------,
MAKE MR. LAFF'S YOUR PARTY HEADQUARTERS! : 10% OFF YOUR CHECK 1135 N. Federal Highway : t 
ft. Lauderdale on~ per cus omer
1 

: (with coupon only) 
.., ~ -:: 
........ .. 



.. 
BiQ East may be gearing·~p·, for football v~;y:.;~~~~:-1 
WASHINGTON (AP) Athletic directors from the Big East Conference's four Division I-A football schools -Boston College, Miami, Pittsburgh and Syracuse -met Wednesday to discuss plans for a new league that would include Rutgers, Temple, Virginia Tech and West 
Criticism 
continued from page 16 
to those who bleed gold and 
blue. 
But why scream obscenities at 
Derek Brown if he can't haul in 
a pass from his toes? He can't 
hear them, he'd kill you if he 
did, and besides, how many 
people could have caught that 
pass? 
Granted, Irish receivers are 
arguably the best there are, 
and should catch passes, but 
even Jerry Rice drops a pass 
now and then. Athletes, you 
see. are part of a genus known 
as human beings -a genus 
whose primary attribute is a 
tendency to screw up. 
Losing to Stanford and Penn 
State at home doesn't make any 
true Irish fan happy, but who 
benefits from throwing oranges 
at people, beating the brains 
out of hapless opposing fans 
and streams of mindless 
cussing? Maybe it's good for the 
little kids at.the games. 
And who benefits from anti­
Digger tirades -both in the 
media and in private? If the 
Type A zealot truly cares about 
how the Irish basketball team 
does, why criticize Digger? 
What's the advantage of 
insulting Digger? 
Is anyone naive enough to 
think that Digger doesn't want 
to win as much as anyone else 
connected with Notre Dame? 
How much good would it do to 
fire Digger in mid-season? No, 
firing a coach like Digger 
wouldn't disturb the players 
and harm the university's 
credibility. 

Virginia. ball league -a topic of conver­
Big East spokesman John sation and conjecture for years Paquette would not disclose the -have been circulating all results of Wednesday's meeting, week. but said he expected a statement to be issu(ld on "I don't know that that's a Thursday. done deal," Virginia Tech ath­
letic director Dave Braine said. Reports of the Eastern foot-· "They told us all along it would 
demonstrate a lack of consideration for the athletes themselves. If you really think that Keith Tower is terrible, why not go look him in the eyes, person to person, and tell him that -sincerely, from the bottom of your heart? 
Also, to the sloths who are too lazy to drag themselves out to a lacrosse game or some other non-revenue match, why don't you go tell the players and coach how they are wasting their time? Clearly, the Type A expert exhibits disgusting levels of complacency and arrogance. Finally, there are two reasons for Type B faultfinders to watch their words carefully. First, they come right out and say that sports are antithetical to "true" human endeavors, like building bridges and splitting atoms. Such a view, however, is a joke. Even Aristotle, a person who has perhaps done more for academic life than any other single individual, recognized and described the positive ways in which sports competitions allow individuals to yursue excellence. Participation in and appreciation of sports is an integral element not only of American culture, but of many world cultures. While some may argue about salaries and other such moral issues related to sports and culture, such discussions merely obscure the core of the problem: Type B critics would have us believe that sports are the very antithesis of civilization. Second, perhaps this campus does suffer from an abundance 

-
kind of sports coverage?. Perhaps certain publications should carefully examine their reason for providing sports coverage, and perhaps campus publications do not need to rehash national stories that the university community would otherwise be aware of. It is not difficult to envision The Observer one day being deyoid of wire reports, filled instead with stories on Irish and Belles teams and athletes. It is both inconceivable and repugnant, however, to imagine the Notre Dame campus without some kind of sports coverage. Not only would an absence of coverage be unfair to the athletes who sacrifice be the first part of the year be­fore anything's final. We have been in touch with them ... We are very much interested in it." 

"I hope before the week's out, we are presented a proposal as such," West Virginia athletic director Ed Pastilong said. 
Miami said earlier this year it would become the lOth member of the ·Big East's basketball conference, but wants a league affiliation for its football team, which won three national championships in the 1980s. 
Syracuse, Boston College and Pittsburgh have major-college football programs and have considered bolting the Big East, but commissioner Mike Tranghese has promised a so­lution to the football problem. 
The Big East's other members -Connecticut, George-town, Providence, St. John's, Seton Hall a-nd Villanova -don't have Division I-A programs. 
According to two sources who spoke on the condition they not be identified, one issue remaining is the hope for an automatic bowl bid for the con­ference champion. A tie-in with the Southwest Conference champion is being examined, one source said, and the Orange Bowl is interested be­cause of Miami, its hometown scttool. 
The new football alignment would not affect the basketball affiliations of the new Big East football schools. West Virginia, Temple and Rutgers would re­
main  in  the  Atlantic  10  
Conference.  
If Virginia Tech joins a  Big  

East football conference, the Hokies would likely take their basketball team into either the Atlantic 10 or the Colonial Athletic Association if the fal­tering Metro Conference cannot be held together, Braine said. 
their bodies and time, but itr-------------------------. 
would also be unfair to those who have relationships with those athletes or simply take an interest in sports in general. In the end, then, let's not forget that the moment for action has not passed. The national ranking of Notre Dame as a university should not be related to the success of its sports teams, but should instead be a function of its academic prowess. At the same time, people like Digger Phelps, Lou Holtz, Gary 

·Darnell, and endless other athletes and coaches deserve respect, not contempt -unless they act in a manner explicitly contrary to the best interests of themselves, their families, their players, or the university, which is another matter altogether. 
So, next time you run into a Type A or Type B sufferer, just 

ND/SMC SKI TEAM 

Last chance to sign up for team tryouts!! Meeting Thursday Dec. 13th 
Bpm·rm 127 Nieuwland Science 
tryouts held lues Jan 15th-cost $30 includes: *transportation to and from the hill *lift tickets *race fees *banquet afterwards1 where team is announced more details at the meeting 

·I '' 

-It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe. You have one night. 
It seems unfair. The genius had all that time. While you have afew 
... 
short hours to learn your sun spots from your satellites before the dreaded astronomy exam. On the other hand, Vivarin gives you the definite advantage. It helps 
VIVARIN'
keep you awake and mentally,alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So even when the subject matter's dull, your mind will stay razor sharp. 
torfastp1cA up -safe as coffee
If Galileo had used Vivarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar system faster, too. 
Revive with VIVARIN: 

Thursday,,.Oecember 13, 1990 The Observer 
page 15 
CAMPUS 

CROSSWORD 
Thursday 
8 & 10 p.m. Movie: "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," Montgomery Theatre. Sponsored by SUB. Admission $1.00. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Menu 

,
Split Pea Soup Lemon Baked Cod Stir Fry Beef & Vegetables Rotellini w/Sprint Vegetables 
Saint Mary's Menu 
Christmas dinn'er 
• 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

l\'1(~ ~£1:.1'11'-\G EXAC\L'{, A~ \~(oNII~'t.l-11 \I= l WI>.S TDP.D IN '10\JR 6£11'\G Rt-.1'5£\) ~w,<; S'flE.t-.itR. II'\ !>. 13£iltR 
DAA'fJ'C:.R ;> ti'I~IRO~I<\rnT. l 't.(O\l\..t:>t-1'\ 00 T\.\11'\GS LI\:.E 1\111-\. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:!.1=+=--l
-=+=+==-+==-! 


.!:::+=-1-:.t!.! 12 Detour · ..._~::..J!....j.!.!~l.:.l 13 Adolphus Busch was one 15 "Meathead" portrayer 
:.:.:.+=4-=..:.j..:-l 20 Money maker 
~-'-+-'~-fllllllll ~:O+==+=:=~R 26 George Sand and Michael Learned 
~::::.j..:;.+:..-=4=~+=-~ 27 Otiose -4~...:..j..'-l 20 Former D.C. baseball team 
.:::....L:..:.J..:..l.:.~ 29 Calyx leaf 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
• 


"Would you look at' that? . . . By thunder, you couldn't do that in our day-yessiree, the rocks were just a lot hea,vier back then." 
.···················································································~····································· 
• ()ne ~~lew
• • Over ' 
•
• 
Christmas. Vacation 

• 
the Cuckoo's Nest December 14 8:00 & 10:30 P.M. 


IJecetn ber 13 'Cushing Auditorium 
• 

8:00 & 10:30 P.M. 
Admission $2 Montgotnery Theatre 
•
• 
LaFortune 11 oooooooooooooooon ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo1
•
•
•
• Ad rn iss io n $ l
• 
STUDE'NT UNION BOARD 
55 Scrutinize 57 Cortege 58 Compared 59 Planting 
implement so Fence straddlers 
DOWN 

1 Liner's course 2 West and 
Copley 3Moist 4 Where Bush 
played baseball 5Aiways 6 Expound again 7 Solicitous a Finished 
parasailing 9 Subject of a "Manon" aria 10 Tetra minus one 
11 Perpetual 30 Soprano 
• Adelina--: 1843-1919 32 Tiller 34 Church areas around altars 35 Miller or Red 3&1ncites 37 Kind of address 
3& Adolescent 39 Lie 
SPELUNKER 

40Ancient asc.etics 41 Presented a play 43 Golf pro true to his name 48 Dispatch 
Answers to any three clu'es in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phon~: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
49 Adjust accurately 
50 Departure 

• 
51 Munro pen name 54 Four-in-hand 56 Brooks or Ferrer 
ACROSS 
1 A TV anchor 7 Winner over 

Ford: 1976 13 Make desolate 14 More observant 16 Disconcerted 17 Necklace of 
c:Hamonds 10 High priest 19 Anchorite 21 St. Louis was 
one 22 Existed 23 Flipper 24 Sister 25 Wreath maker's 
activity 29 Outpouring ~1 Sonorous 32 Good doctor 33 Dole 34 Egyptian 
Christian 35-dozen (13) 38 Haymarket 
meccas 42 Don't exist 43 Most nacreous 44 Acuff or Rogers 45 Author 
Deighton 46 Jeff Davis's 
govt. 47 Coiled hair knot 48 Postures 52Gamb 53 Recondite state 


····························································~···························································· 

--~--.......-·---........ 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, December 13, 1990 
Irish losing streak reaches seven with lossto Trojans 
Harold Miner scores 35 to lead USC past NO 105-95 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The more things change, the more they stay the same. 
Just 18 days· after the Irish football team shut down the Trojan gridiron squad 10-6, many Notre Dame fans were looking for a similar defensive effort to spark the Irish bas­ketball team to victory. 
Different sport, same r~sult, 
right? Unfortunately, wrong. There are exceptions to every 
rule; as USC painfully reminded 

• 
Digger Phelps and the Fighting Irish last night at the JACC. The Trojans spanked Notre Dame 105-95 before a vocal crowd of 9,501, sending the Irish to their seventh loss in a row. 
The 105 points scored by USC were the most ever surrendered by a Digger Phelps' team at the JACC, and were also the most scored against Notre Dame since South Carolina racke'd up 109 points during the 1971-72 season.The last time that a Notre Dame team lost seven in a row was also in 1971-72 -the first year of Digger's career with the Irish. That year the Irish also lost the last six games of the year, while losing five in a row in mid-season. 
Digger, however, was advised by Southern Cal coach George Raveling to stay the course. 
"I would just say to Digger that he must remember the Three .P's: Patience, Positive, and Poised," Raveling said. "You have to have them, be­cause it's easy to get negative.. We probably played as well in all phases of the game as we have this year. I expected that it would take that kind of effort to beat Notre Dame. 
"I have been there. I sincerely believe that a team can have losing momentum. I wouldn't write Notre Dame off right now. Notre Dame has no time to experiment and adjust because of their schedule. They need time to regroup." 
Perhaps it was a bad omen 

Only the teams stay the same in '91 Orange Bowl 
FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
On the surface, the similari­ties between the 1991 Orange Bowl game and its 1990 prede­cessor appear endless. 
Notre Dame's 21-6 win a year ago knocked Colorado from the ranks of the unbeaten and out of national championship con­tentioll.. The Irish again will face the top-ranked Buffaloes in a bowl game with certain na­tional title implications, but don't call the Jan. 1 matchup between No. 5 Notre Dame and No. 1 Colorado a rematch of last season's game. 
"This game is not a rematch per se," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said Wednesday. "Colorado is play­ing better football than any.c body in the country right now. What concerns me is not the revenge factor, but the confi­dence factor. That's what's re­ally impressed me. Everybody is pointing at (Colorado! this year, but they are more mature , for Notre Dame when Southern Cal won the tipoff and quickly jumped out to a 4-2 lead. 

The Trojans offensive jugger­naut, led by Robert Pack (24 points) and Harold Miner (35 points), had buried the Irish in a 17 point deficit by halftime. Elmer Bennett (27 points) and LaPhonso Ellis (28 points) each registered career highs in scor­ing, but were overwhelmed down the stretch. Bennett's coast-to-coast acrobatic s~oring surges sparked many an Irish rally. . 
"I thought that Bennett was disrespectful because he took over the game," Raveling said. "He doesn't understand the ar­ticles of surrender. He really put on a show." 
Unfortunately for Bennett, Miner was always lurking in the wings to bury shot after incredible shot en route to squelching every Notre Dame rally that came his way. With 14:08Jeft in the first half and the Irish trailing 12-9, Bennett nailed a 15-foot jumper, slicing the margin to 12-11. 
Miner, however, came back 
with a layup for a 14-11 Trojan 
edge. Eighteen seconds later, 
Pack took a lead past at and 
around Bennett, as the USC 
lead bulged to 16-11. 
Ellis scored a 16-footer from 
the left wing to pull the Irish 
back to within three at the 
12:45 mark, but the first half was all Trojans from that point on. 
Southern Cal's lead seemed to 
grow exponentially, as Notre 
Dame found· itself trailing 31-18 
with over eight minutes before 
halftime. 
The Trojans did not outshoot 
the Irish by mu~h. USC shot . 544 from the floor, as well as .333 from three-point range and . 7 58 from the free throw line. The Irish, on the other hand, made .522 from the floor, .455 from three-point land, and . 7 41 at the line. In the second half, the Trojans veins flowed with ice, as they buried 15 of 18 free throws down the stretch. 
than last year." 
Colorado emerged from rela­tive obscurity last season to capture the Big Eight title and fashioned a perfect 11-0 record before its Orange Bowl loss to Notre Dame. 
The Irish finished last season with a No. 2 ranking and the best record in the country at 12-1. Notre Dame carried the top ranking through the first 11 weeks of the season before falling to Miami in its final reg­ular-season game. 
"We'd better be better than we've been all year," Holtz said about this season's game. :·1 don't think we're playing as well as we did last year, partic­ularly on defense." 
The '91 Orange Bowl was be­ing billed as the national cham­pionship game as early as Nov. 10 when top-ranked Notre Dame defeated Tennessee and Colorado beat Oklahoma State to move into the No. 2 spot. 
Notre Dame's shocking 24-21 
see ORANGE I page 12 
tdt "t 
The Observer/John Studebaker 

~ LaPhonso Ellis (shown here vs. Kentuol<y) scored 28 points and grabbed 15 rebounds, but it was to no avail, as the Irish lost to USC 105-95. 
Miner's performance leaves Irish in sh~ck 
By KEN TVSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame players. mut­tered in disbelief as they passed the freshly tabulated boxscore around the locker room after their 105-95 loss to USC. 
"How many did he have." 
"Thirty-five, man." 
"Thirty-five?" 
"Yeah." 
The player they were refer­ring to was Trojan guard Harold Miner, who lit up the Irish last night at the Joyce ACC. Miner, just a sophomore, 
Criticism of ND sports misdirected 
This semester, a dangerous parasite, which has perhaps in­fested the Notre Dame community for s·ome time, became visible and malignant. This contagion, however, has not yet aohieved a death grip, Dave Dieteman and must be destroyed Sports Writer while the opportunity exists. More than a few times this year, the university community has suffered through letters, articles and quips that decried athletes, coaches and the amount of coverage devoted to sports on this campus. For argmiient's !lake, the disparaging comments may be divided into two categories: Type A and Type B (how quaint). 
Type A, as with personalities, is the more active .Worse yet, you've had to take it from your 
strain. The Type A critic is the person who wants to fire Digger Phelps, fire Gary Darnell and call the plays for Lou Holtz. This particularly annoying brand of critic also exhibits an overweening, pompous attitude towards opposing teams. You've heard these budding Einsteins at the dining hall: "Nah, I sold my ticket. We're gonna crush Stanford-why go to the game?" You've stood next to these geniuses at football games: "Hey Mirer, you stink! I can't believe he has made a habit of scoring big jumper." in leading USC to wins in five of "He's their main person on its first six games. Going into offense," forward Daimon last night's game he was aver-Sweet added. "He tries to get, aging 24.0 ppg. He eclipsed everybody else involved in the that mark midway through the offens~. and then when you slip second half last night. on defense he kills you." 
"He's really a good player," , The sophomore from said Irish forward LaPhonso Inglewood, Cal. killed Notre Ellis, who had a pretty decent ·Dame on the inside and the night himself with 28 points outside, sending the Irish reel­and 15 rebounds. "He's a good ing to their seventh straight athlete, a great shooter, and he loss. The Irish tried to play a can penetrate as well. He is zone against him. The"y tried to especially dangerous on the play man-to-man against him. perimeter because he can really shoot that fall-away 
see USC I page 1 0 
threw an incompletion!" You've turned off the local radio station after the disc jockey proudly tells the world that he would win a national championship for Notre Dame if he had Digger's job. ''I'd teach those guys how to shoot foul shots." Never min· that the game was close enough to come do\-\ to a foul shot, but some disc-jockey woul(J !'lave pulled it out. The Type B critic is just as bad as the Type A, but chooses to mull over complaints and insert them into vague pseudo-defenses of intellectual life. The Type B expert would have the world see the evil of sports once and for all, as well as make sure that the only majors offered by the university are engineering, science, and PLS. You've read the letters: "Campus Paper Wa!'jtes Paper on Sports." You've seen the articles: "University ranking falls -and deserves to!" 
professors: "Students here care too much about sports." In the end, both Type A and Type B fall short of rationality and benefit. Let's take them one type at a time. Have most Type A-sufferers tried to chill out and get a handle on their emotions or pride? If you're fired up for a game, it's understandable to yell things you don't mean. The same applies 
see CRITICISM 1 page 14 




