
VOL. XXIII NO.5 FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


AP Photo A Royal Arabian National Gaurd officer waves a bull horn as he talks with possible recruits dressed in tradi­tional Arab clothing. The National Gaurd is heavily involved in recruiting in response to the Persian Gulf crises, now in its fifth week. Although hundreds of American citizens remain in Iraq and Kuwait, President Bush has stated that their presence will not shape the course of U.S. foreign policy. 
U.N. chief optimistic as hostages await release 
Hope strengthened Thursday that foreign women and chil­dren may soon get their promised safe passage from Iraq, and on the diplomatic front, the U.N. secretary-gen­eral arrived in Jordan to try to mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. 
The crisis entered its fifth week .Friday, with the United States pushing hard for a strong hand in its confronta­tion with Iraq's Saddam Hussein. 
The U.N. chief, Javier Perez de Cuellar, expressed optimism for a peaceful settlement fol­lowing Iraq's Aug. 2 takeover of Kuwait, its small, oil-rich neighbor, but he warned that the situation in the region was "explosive." 
President Bush said he was soliciting funds from other na­tions to help defray the cost of America's $1 billion-a-month military buildup in the gulf, and 
• U.S. Hostages/ page 6 
singled out Japan, West 

Germany,  Saudi  Arabia,  the  
United  Arab  Emirates  and  
South Korea.  

Bush said a "new world order" could emerge from the crisis, and "anyone with a stake in international order has an interest in ensuring that all of us succeed." 

He told a news conference he was concerned about the thou­sands of hostages in Iraq, but said their fate could not be al­lowed to shape U.S. foreign policy. 
More than 200 women and children gathered at Baghdad's Menia Hotel Thursday in preparation for leaving Iraq. Some had been held at strategic Iraqi sites, to head off attack from the U.S.-led multinational 
see IRAQ I page 6 

Pandora's drops request for rezoning after local pressure 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
On August 13 the manage­ment of Pandora's Books an­nounced they were withdrawing a petition for the rezoning of property located on the corner of Howard Street and Notre Dame Avenue across from their present location at 808 Howard Street.. 
Last spring the owners of the bookstore, which is frequented by Notre Dame students and faculty, started a motion to get the property rezoned so the bookstore could move across the street to a lot owned by Pandora's. In order to relocate the store, however, the prop­erty would have to be rezoned from an A-residential zone to a C-1 commercial zone. 

The owners had planned to move the bookstore across the street where they could build a larger store. Pandora's Books is located in South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood on the perimeter of the Notre Dame campus. 
However, Pandora's plan was met with opposition from both the Northeast Neighborhood Association and the University of Notre Dame. 
Art Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Association, said last spring that he opposed the rezoning of the land based on bad experi­ences with that piece of prop­erty in the past. 
Renelda Robinson, also of the Northeast Neighborhood Association, said that the land should be used for housing rather than a commercial establishment. 
Notre Dame's official posi­tion on the issue has been con­sistent with that of the Northeast Neighborhood Association. Notre Dame also offered to purchase the land from the bookstore in order to avoid rezoning of the property. 
Those opposed to the book­store said they were worried about what could happen if Pandora's failed and another commercial establishment pur­chased the land. 
The owners of Pandora's, however. promised to deed "the property to the neighborhood for neighborhood use" in the event of failure of the book­store. 
However on August 13 the owners of Pandora's announced they had decided not to petition South Bend's Common Council to rezone the lot, said Mandy Arnold, store manager. 
"Our recent meetings with Councilperson Ann Puzello and other members of the City Council, with Jim Roemer, spokesperson for the University of Notre Dame, and Art Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Association, have persuaded us that all groups support the continued existence of the bookstore, but that the timing is not right for passage of our petition by the City Council to­day," said Tim Hartzer, owner of Pandora's, during an August press conference. 
The decision to withdraw the request for rezoning followed several "pleasant" meetings of the owners of the bookstore and neighborhood and University officials, said Jim Roemer, director of community relations at Notre Dame. 
"I am very pleased that this issue was resolved without fric­tion," said Roemer. 
Roemer met with Hartzer over the summer and also ar­ranged a meeting between Hartzer and the Northeast Neighborhood Association. The 
see BOOKS I page 4 




ND and Poles to publish volumes of U.S history 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
An $85,000 grant has been given to Notre 
Dame from the United States Information 
Agency for an international research project at 
Notre Dame and Warsaw University in Poland. 
According to Donald Critchlow, associate professor of history and the general editor of the project, the goal of the research is to estab­lish a five volume history of the United States to be published in Poland. 
"This is the first full U.S. history published in Poland by objective minded students," Critchlow said. The first attempt at this project was in 1985 but the Communist government, which had Poland under martial law, was against the idea. 
Critchlow stated that the Poles actually do know quite a bit about the United States in ar­eas like pop culture and literature but have never received large amounts of information about American history and democratic institu­
tions. 
When asked if the researchers hope to influ­ence the Polish government with democratic ideas, Critchlow said, "The American model is not applicable. The Poles have a parliamentary form of government." 
One of the reasons for spreading this infor­
The Observer I Kevin Weise

Sunset on the lake
mation is the obvious fact that the United States is the most powerful nation in the world, 
With all the construction taking place around the campus in the efforts to create a bigger and better Notre Dame, its nice to know that some things never change.
see POLAND I page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A beginner's 
guide to SYRs at 

Notre Dame 
We're not even back--------­
a week and my dorm presidents have al­ready announced that we have an SYR next weekend. Yes, that's seven days from now. After my friends and I got over the initial shock that we really Kelley Tuthill 
have to deal with an 
SYR already, we real-News Editor 
ized that the fresh­
men of our dorm are 
the ones who are really in need of help. 
They're the ones who just got here and have 
only seven days to meet the man of their 
dreams. We've all had two years to do that. 
SYRs or Screw Your Roommate dances are truly a wonderful Notre Dame tradition. However, there's a few ground rules that every freshman should live by. 
First, try to avoid having your room­mate(s) set you up. I know it's called a Screw Your Roommate dance, but blind dates have the potential to be disastrous. If you must get set up, at least make sure that you roommate(s) knows the person that you are supposed to spend an entire evening of your life with. Don't get stuck going with some girl or guy who "looked hot" in the Dogbook. First of all, looks can be deceiving and second of all, there's no reason to be­lieve that the person looks anything like their picture in the Dogbook. 
Once you get the date and the big night arrives, don't stress over what to wear. After all, this is South Bend, not Paris. Guys, tuxes aren't necessary and every guy at the dance will be wearing a blue blazer with a red tie and khaki pants anyway. And women, leave your prom dresses behind, although you will find everything from Gunne Sax gowns to pants at our SYRs. (You never know when some drunken slob is going to spill Hawaiian punch surprise all over your fancy duds) 
During the dance look out for drinks that come in funky colors and in which you "can't even taste the alcohol." Beware: there probably is alcohol in your drink and if you can't taste it, you will probably drink more than you should. Getting ill on your date is not a good move. He or she just might not ask you to their next dance. 
No matter how bad your date is, you should always try to remain civil. However, if your date is really drunk and hanging all over you, there are a few key excuses that might come in handy if you must leave. 
For example, you can tell your date that your friend was just ill in the bathroom and that you have to take care of her. You could also start telling your date about your inner struggles and how you're considering a life as a Holy Cross religious. As a last result you might also tell him that you're getting over your most recent herpes outbreak and must go home for medication. 
Good luck and I hope you don't have too many "SYRs from Hell." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



--Ih---e-Obse-. ­
---. ~~er-­
&.-=Y~ 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Friday's Staff 
News Production Amy Leroux Lisa Eaton Peter Loftus Kristin Costello 
Scoreboard Greg Guffey Kevaleen Ryan 
Accent Systems Paul Pearson Cesar Capella 
Sports Robyn Simmons Deirdre Bell 
Ken Tysiac 
Ad Design Viewpoint Circulation Lisa Gunsorek Julie Shepherd Bill O'Rourke Amy Ekert Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rese'Ved. 
-----------~--­
-------------~----­
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 
----------.....
~-----­

WEATHER Yesterday's high: 81 Yesterday's low: 58 Nation's high: 114 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 35 (Truck~e. Calif.) 
Forecast: 
Sunny and warm today 
with highs in the middle 
80s. Fair and warm 
tonight, with lows in the 
middle 60s. Partly sunny 
and very warm Saturday, 
highs around 90. A 
chance of thunderstorms 
on Sunday, highs around 
FRONTS: 

• • • • •• • 85. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
A

® © §~3 ~ m t3l F:x:~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
Off campus students may pick up their phone The Observer invites all those interested in books in the student government secretary's office on the writing for the news department to attend an 2nd floor of LaFortune form 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday informational meeting on Monday, September 3 at 7 p.m. through Friday. in the Sorin room on the first floor of LaFortune Student 
Center. For more information call Kelley at 239-5303. Tickets for sophomore dunes trip are available from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Sophomore Class Office Off campus students can now pick up a copyand at all Sophomore Welcome Week events. Tickets are of Du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures in the 
$2 for a whole day of fun. 

Office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Administration Building. This booklet contains important information for 
Volunteer tutors are needed for all students. elementary and high school students on Tuesdays from 6 to 7:30 p.m. Sept. 10 through Dec. 11 in Madeleva Hall, St. Mary's. An orientation meeting will be held Sept. 10 Musical auditions for the musical comedy "Do from 6 to 7:00p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If interested 
Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?" will be held Sat. call Hallie at 284-5316 or Betsv at 284-4441. and Sun., Sept. 1 and 2 from noon to 3 p.m. in 
All Summer Service Project students Washington Hall. There are eight female roles and five are reminded to attend the SSP Celebration on Sunday, male roles available. Any questions, call Lisa at 283-4230 Sept. 2 at 9 a.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. or Jeff at 283-3666. 
NATIONAL 

The Texas Department of Criminal Zonker, Duke, Mike Doonesbury and the Justice has granted a Texas Ku Klux Klan group rest of Gary Trudeau's gang are on the U.S. Postal permission to mail such publications as "Negro Watch," Service's "Most Unwanted" list. Postal employees were "Jew Watch" and "Knightly News" to prison inmate warned last week that some people are trying to pass off subscribers. Prison officials said inmates. have been ornamental stamps bearing the comic strip characters as receiving Klan and extreme right-and left-wing the real thing, officials said Wednesday. The gummed publications for the past five to 10 years, following a fakes come from the 1990 Doonesbury Stamp Album, a court ruling that opened the door to a more liberal prison collection of over 140 stamps featuring characters from mailing rules. But they had not been allowed to receive the comic strip. publications from a Texas Klan group. 
WORLD 

The Rev. Jesse Jackson 
About 250 militant Armenian met Thursday with Iraqi President nationaliStS gave up their weapons Thursday after Saddam Hussein and Foreign Minister the republic declared a state of emergency and Tariq Aziz to discuss the Persian Gulf surrounded their headquarters with soldiers, police and crisis, officials said. tanks. The surrender was a major victory for Armenia's 
"Aziz explained Iraq's historical and parliament, which declared independence from the Soviet legitimate rights in Kuwait and Union last week. By reining in the militants with forces President Saddam Hussein's initiative under its direct control -no troops from the central on 12th August as being the sound Soviet government were involved -the parliament foundation for reaching just and equitable solutions for dramatically emphasized its authority. Lawmakers had all issues from which the region suffers, particularly the voted unanimously Wednesday to outlaw the militant suffering of the Palestinian people," said Inside Edition. group, which called itself the Armenian National Army. 
INDIANA ALMANAC 
The Indiana Commission for Judicial Nominations had received 12 

On August 31: 
applications Thursday for the Indiana Supreme 
Court vacancy created by the retirement of 

e In 1915: Poland is divided 
into administrative districts; Warsaw to
Justice Alfred J. Pivarnik. Two women, one 

Germany, Kielce to Austria.
Hispanic and no blacks were among those 

e In 1941: In the U.S.S.R.,
applying to become the 101st member of the 

Soviets launch a counter attack along Dnieper River. 
Supreme Court. The first 100 all were white men. 
NYSE Index 

e In 1955: Peron of Buenos
175.23 +2.55
State-run centers in New Castle and 

Aires briefly offers his resignation amid 
S&P Composite 
near Mount Vernon that care for mentally 

student protests.
318.71 +5.48
retarded persons may lose $29 million in federal 

e In 1960: In Rome, Nieder
Dow Jones Industrials 
Medicaid funding unless improvements are made, 

breaks Olympic record in United
2,593.32 +39.11 

States sweep of shotput medals. a state health official says. Adv~cates for the 
mentally retarded say the health care problems 

e In 1986: Vodka distillery in
Precious Metals 

Warsaw reports highest sales inuncovered at the two facilities indicate Indiana 
Gold {} $1.20 to $386.70/ oz. 

Poland.needs to look at alternatives to large state 
hospitals. 
Silver {7 1.8¢ to $4.807/ oz. 


-----~~-~~--~-~-----~----------~ 

Hidden treasures 
Laura Fudere~, R~re Books librarian, replaces one of the precious manuscripts that comprise the Rare Books Collection 1n the basement of Hesburgh Library. 


S. African police combat students 
J?HANNESBURG, South lice, who fired birdshot in re-are from, complained Thursday Afnca (AP) -Police clashed turn and injured at least two that South African authorities for a second day Thursday with protesters. The students were had left bodies of victims of the s~udents pr?testing black fac-demanding an end to battles fighting to rot outside twnal fightmg, and the gov-between Xhosas, who mostly Johannesburg area mortuaries. ernment said the conflict was support the African National forcing it to spend money on Congress, ahd Zulus, who back They said people who traveled security instead of social ser-the conservative Inkatha to the city to identify the dead vices. movement. 
were unable to recognize their Witnesses in Cape Town said Officials of the Transkei relatives because the bodies students hurled stones at po-homeland, where many Xhosas had decomposed. 
r 
~ Welcome Students 
~
•~ BAPTIST 
ic: 


~ ~ Student ~ 
iC 

iC Union 
~ ·~ Bible Study ­
• 
~ 
.~ Join ~-Us! 
Fellowshi 
September 10, 1990 Time: 7pm 
Call 0ollect 784-2078 

The congregation of Holy Cross with joy and thanksgiving announces the perpetual profession of vows of our brothers 
John Joseph Donato, CSC Marc Francis Fallon, CSC David Lee Guffey, CSC Paul VIncent Kollman, CSC Russell Kevin McDougal, CSC Patrick Michael Neary, CSC James Hamilton Phalen, CSC 
at a celebration of the Eucharist on Saturday, September 1, 1990 at 1:30PM Sacred Heart Church University of Notre Dame 
page 3 

ND constructs five new computer laboratories 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Office of University Computing (OUC) coordinated the construction of five new computer facilities and the renovation of five existing labs on campus this summer. 
The new Notre Dame comput­ing facilities are located in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, Hayes-Healy, Nieuwland Science Hall, the Computing Center/Math Building and the Campus Security building (the former ROTC building). 
The OUC added 163 worksta­tions to campus labs bringing the total number of Macintosh computers to 179 and DOS workstations to 85. The com­puting office expanded the labs to "meet the needs of the stu­dents and other Notre Dame computer users," said Chelley Vician, an OCU staff member. 
The labs in the library, LaFortune, Hayes-Healy and on the second floor of the Computer/Math building are currently operating on limited schedules while the OUC hires and trains new consulting staff, Vician said. 
All of the labs except the one in room 217 of the Security building will be fully operational by Sept. 10, she said. 
When the lab in the Security building, still under construc­tion, is completed later this fall, it will provide 24-hour access to basic software applications in DOS and Macintosh, Vician said. The facility will be open 365 days a year, while the other campus labs are closed on all University holidays. 
"Users of (the Campus Security building's) computers are expected to be knowledge­able in the use of the software package they wish to use ... ad­ditional consulting support in terms of manuals or individual­ized help will not be available in this facility," Vician said. 
The computer lab in the basement of the Computer Math building contains IBM mainframe terminals, Convex terminals and NeXT worksta­tions. The OUC plans to add DOS and Macintosh worksta­tions to this lab during this academic year, according to Vician. It will be open 24 hours a day, but will be closed on Labor Day and on all University holidays. 
The lab on the second floor of the Computer-Math building "furnishes access to object­oriented modeling and visualization tools for the College of Science students," Vician said. The facility has 15 Sun workstations and 20 Apple Macintosh Ilcis. 
"Individualized help will not be available on a 24-hour basis. However, assistance may be obtained during hours of operation from the Information Resource Center located in the same building," Vician said. 
The facility in room 412 of the Architecture Building is de­signed to support the comput­ing needs of architecture stu­dents who need high-end Computer Assisted Design (CAD) tools, Vician said. The lab contains 16 Apple Macintosh Ilcis, each with two­page monochrome monitors. 
The OUC renovated the com­puter lab in Hayes-Healy this summer. The three old com­puter rooms have been con­verted into one large room in the basement of the business building. The lab contains basic software and statistical and presentation software for busi­ness students. 
The lab in 203 Nieuwland provides 24-hour access for College of Science students and those other users who require high-end Sun workstation tools. Fifteen Sun workstations will be available for use in this facility. 
The Hesburgh Library, O'Shaughnessy Hall and LaFortune computer labs now have additional memory to al­low the simultaneous use of multiple application packages (via Multifinder). "This revision to the hardware will permit users to concentrate on docu­ment presentation instead of text processing by expanding the cut-and-paste capabilities," Vician said. 
"The mission of these (three) computer clusters is to provide access to basic software appli­cations like word processing, spreadsheet, graphics and database applications for the Notre Dame user community," said Vician. 
In 148 Fitzpatrick Hall there are 80 Sun workstations, 9 Apple Macintosh Ilfxs, 16 Hewlett Packard Vectras, in addition to the College of Engineering equipment. 
These facilities can be used by the general Notre Dame com­munity which the OUC defines as current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
The OUC is still hiring student consultants to work in the labs this academic year. Interested students who know the Macintosh and/or Word Perfect systems well may contact Giovanna Edwards in room 246 of the library. 

-------~------~---"'~'!!~"""'-~·---~ -~ 
The Observer 
The Observer I Eric Bailey 
Schedule shuffles 

Kay Vick, secretary at the Registrar's office, assists junior engineering student Oliver Assati and many 

other students like him in adjusting schedules for the fall semester. 
Friday, August 31, 1990 


College enclave might ban 'fighting words' 
AMHERST, Mass. (AP) ­Militant attitudes may be the new fashion for many Americans, but townsfolk here are chewing over a proposal to muzzle "fighting words" on the streets of this college enclave. 
The proposal, designed to si­lence racial slurs, is part of a long line of efforts to promote harmony in a town that has voted against every war since 1812. It is already drawing fire from civil rights advocates. 
"This is a caring community. It's a community of people who really have some deep and gen­uine humane values," said Paul Rogers, a member of the Citizens Review Committee, which has written a first draft of the bylaw. 
Rogers said he's not sure whether the proposal will suc­ceed. It was inspired by an inci­dent last May in which a white youth reportedly shouted racial slurs and knocked a black teenager down. 
In Amherst, a town of about 34,000 where residents have marched for peace and against war scores of times, debating Constitutional rights is nothing new. 
A University of Massachusetts at Amherst so­ciology professor credited the nature of Amherst politics to old-fashioned Yankee outspo­kenness at regular and well-at­tended Town Meetings and 
having  two  colleges  and  the  
university.  
"These  are  people who  are  

familiar with the use of the tongue in a situation politically which puts a premium on it," said Jay Demerath. 
In keeping with tradition, a group of residents this month marched to the Town Common to protest U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia and suggest that President Bush turn to al­ternate methods to resolve the invasion of Kuwait. 


Books 
continued from page 1 
issue of rezoning was discussed 
and both sides were able to 
present their concerns, he said. 
Although Notre Dame and the 
Northeast Neighborhood 
Association made it clear that 
they "loved having a bookstore 
in the neighborhood," Roemer 
said that they stood firmly 
against rezoning the lot. 
"They (owners of Pandora's) understood that we felt strongly (about the rezoning) and wouldn't back off," said Roemer. 
Roemer said he doesn't know what will happen next with the lot at the corner of Howard Street and Notre Dame Avenue, but he is sure that whatever is done with the property will be consistent with the A-residen­tial zoning regulations. 
"I hope the bookstore stays in the neighborhood," said Roemer. Because so many peo­ple in the Notre Dame commu­nity patronize Pandora's, he said it's important that the bookstore stay in the Northeast Neighborhood and close to campus. 
For the time being Pandora's plans to do some redecorating in their present store. Arnold said the management is going to do the best they can with the space available. 
"We have no plans to sell the land," said Arnold. In addition, she said that the owners of Pandora's are not considering moving the bookstore. 
"We wish to thank Jim Roemer for his ability to bring together the NorthP:~<:t 


Poland 
c;;ontinued from page 1 
according to Critchlow. Secondly, it is important for others to understand our cul­ture since democracy has suc­ceeded here. 
Critchlow stated that although the project is funded by the United States Information Agency, "it does not have editorial control over what's written." 
Critchlow added that the pro­ject showed that the U.S. "can help not only through capital investment, but also in the giv­ing '•f ideas." 

Neighborhood Association's Board for our recent meeting and for his attempt to mediate this issue and hope he will con­tinue to work with all of us. We also wish to thank the University for their offer to re­lieve us of the Howard-Notre Dame Avenue property and thereby allow the lots to con­tinue to stand vacant," said 
Hartzer in August. 
"However, it is our belief that leaving this property on the tax rolls and putting it to a permis­sible use under the city zoning requirements is a much better alternative. By doing this we can contribute to the continued growth and improvement of the quality of life in our neighbor­hood," he said. 
Pandora's is still looking for a feasible alternative to solving their space problems, Arnold said. 

Although the rezoning issue has been time consuming, Arnold said that controversy has also had its rewards. "More people are aware that we exist now," she said. 
Pandora's Books has been in the Northeast Neighborhood, in several different locations, for approximately 15 years. 


,~, ,,~ 
.To"ch,'fj
G1ve to the United Way. 
... 

~******************j 
~  The Main Laundromat  ~  
~  1518 North Main Street  ~  
~  Mishawaka  ~  
~  Hou"~3§c29-0~~-~d~oweek  t  
~  e~.  ?~4.  e~~t  ~  
•  WASHERS ONLY 85¢  •  
~  Mon.+ Fri.: FREE Tide in every wash  ~  
~  Every Day : Drop-off-$.40 per pound  ~  
""'  Thursday : Tanning-$3.00 per session  ~  
~  Convenient pick-up and delivery to your dorm  ~  
~  room.  Dorm discounts available.  ~  

******************* 
0 It bringsout the bestin all of us: 
United way 


is looking for: Advertising Representitives and Advertising Clerks 
Please call Beth Bolger at 239-6900 or 288-0597 for more information. 
ATTENTION, UNITED METHODIST STUDENTS ! ! 
Welcome ( back) to Notre Dame and the South Bend area! As you get settled into new living quarters and the academic routine, our thoughts and prayers are with you .. The congregation of First United Methodist (333 N Main, across from Burger King) cordially invites you to worship with us on Sunday mornings. Here's our schedule: 
8:45AM "Celebration Services" in Sanctuary (45 min) 
9:30 AM Fellowship & Refreshments in Gathering room 
9:45 AM "University Fellowship" in Sunday School Area 
11:00 AM Traditional Service in Sanctuary (1 hour) 
WE ARE HAPPY TO ARRANGE TRANSPORTATION for those needing a ride to our activities. Call us during the week at 233-9463. 
ATTTENTION NDISMC SENIORS PREPARING FOR LAW SCHOOL: 
There will be an important Pre-Law Society meeting on Monday, September 3 at 7:00P.M. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Dean Link of the Notre Dame Law School will be the guest speaker. Materials will be 
distributed.and dues will be collected. 
-
United way 
It bri~ out the best 
inalloh&. 


The Observer I Eric Bailey 

Outdoor academics 
Sophomore Ryan Roberts takes advantage of the beautiful weather to complete an assignment for his art class, namely, a sketch of Sacred Heart. 


The Observer page·5 



Minority students encouraged to attend grad school in ND workshop 
By FRANK RIVERA News Writer 
Seven ND minority students participated in a special six­week program on campus this summer encouraging talented and financially needy minority undergraduates from minority groups to pursue graduate studies. 
Directed by Mario Borelli, as­sociate professor of mathemat­ics and director of the Office of Instructional Projects and Activities, the Project to Promote Minority Enrollment in Graduate Studies (PMEGS) was funded by a grant from the U.S. Department of Education and an in-kind contribution from the University, 
"The purpose (of this pro­gram) is to help undergradu-
Kohl compromises on abortion to save unification treaty; will be signed today 
BONN, West Germany (AP)­Chancellor Helmut Kohl's gov­ernment late Thursday sal­vaged a treaty that lays the le­gal basis for German unity after Kohl agreed to compro­mises on abortion rights and the handling of secret police files. 
The treaty will be signed Friday in East Berlin by the two nations' interior ministers. 
Late Thursday, a Kohl aide announced the accord had been reached with the opposition Social Democrats, or the SPD. "We have agreement the SPD will support the treaty," said Rudolf Seiters, Kohl's chief of staff. 
Kohl compromised on the treaty's two last obstacles ­abortion rights and the han­dling of sensitive files collected over four decades by East Germany's former secret police. 
West Germany's Social Democrats accepted a com­promise on abortion rights proposed by West German ates toward deciding whether they should go into graduate studies," said Borelli, "why they should go into graduate stud­ies, what graduate studies they should go into, and where and how to apply." 
The ND students who partici­pated in the program were Eric Bailey, Derrick Johnson, Keith McCoy, Manuel Espino, Michele Cage, Adrienne Lilly, and Susan Ramirez. They were among 20 students selected from a na­tionwide pool of applicants. 
According to Cage, the pro­gram enjoyed a lot of support from the administration and "helped students to not shy away from applying to grad school" for any reason. 
Borelli said the students par­ticipated in seminar courses in 
Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble. 
Kohl on Wednesday talked lawmakers from his coalition into bending to the Social Democrats' demand that West German women not be prose­cuted for seeking abortions in East Germany after unity. East Germany's abortion law is more permissive. 
Under the accord reached Thursday, the new parliament of a unified Germany will be en­trusted with adopting a new abortion law for all of Germany by 1992. 
In addition, the two Germanys agreed on measures to guard against potential blackmailers gaining access to sensitive documents compiled by East Germany's once-feared "Stasi" secret police. 
The secret police .compiled files on the private lives of mil­lions of East Germans to help the former communist govern-

'-' f '

If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better I..SAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our I..SAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" I..SAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE'" lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favot 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYourOtances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
PHONE 219/272-4135RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
their choice of the humanities or sciences which provided an overview of graduate studies and discussions of the proce­dures of graduate school appli­cation, selection and financing. 
This was followed by individ­ual "research participation course," conducted with faculty members of the Colleges of Science and Arts and Letters. 
According to Borelli, the pro­gram included trips and picnics, but if funded next year would "hope to get more organized activities for students to participate in." 
"I found it a very pleasant experience," said Borelli. "Obviously, this being its first year, there were things we could have done better." 
ment maintain its iron grip on 
the nation. 
Angry East German lawmaK­
ers in East Berlin threatened to 
veto the treaty if 6 million se­
cret police files were sent to a 
West German government 
archive in Koblenz, as was ini­
tially foreseen in the treaty. 
Schaeuble and East 
Germany's top unity negotiator, 
Guenther Krause, agreed 
Thursday an all-German par­
liament should decide how to 
keep the documents in safety, 
said Schaeuble's spokesman, 
Roland Bachmeier. 
Passage of the treaty is not needed for German unity on Oct. 3. But without it East Germans might get the feeling essential elements of merging the two nations are out of their control. 
Also Thursday, the two Germanys pledged to nearly halve the troop strengths of a united Germany. 


New facts in 'right-to­die' case 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) -A lawyer for a comatose woman asked a state court Thursday to allow removal of her life support system, citing new evidence that she wouldn't want to continue living in her condition. 
The petition filed with Jasper County Probate Judge Charles Teel said three witnesses have come forth "who had specific discussions with Nancy Cruzan regarding her wishes about life-sustaining medical treat-· ment." 
In July, the U.S. Supreme Court barred the removal of Cruzan's life-sustaining feeding tube in its first ruling in a "right-to-die" case. 
The nation's highest court said a state's interest in pre­serving life may overcome the wishes of family members seeking to end the life of a pa­tient in an irreversible, coma­like condition. 
Her parents, Joe and Joyce Cruzan of Carterville in south­west Missouri, fought to have a surgically implanted tube re­moved from their 33-year-old daughter. 
Cruzan has been in a persis­tent vegetative state since a January 1983 car crash, and is kept alive at the Missouri Rehabilitation Center in Mount Vernon. 
--~----~-~--~-~-~----~---~--~-----~ ~-­
page 6 The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 

U.S. frustrated by delay in release of hostages 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The high hopes of American women and children in Iraq for an early departure from that country have been frustrated by "inhumane and disgraceful" delays, the State Department said Thursday. 
At the same time, President Bush said he will press ahead with his policies irrespective of the possibility that Americans held in Iraq and Kuwait might be harmed. 
State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler assailed Iraq for fail­ing to issue exit visas after President Saddam Hussein said Tuesday that all foreign women and children would be allowed to leave Iraq. 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 
force in Saudi Arabia. No exit visas were expected before Saturday because Friday is the Moslem sabbath. 
Iraq denied reports it sought food and medicine in exchange for hostages to ease effects from the punitive U.N. embargo of Iraq. 
In London, the Foreign Office said Iraq was arranging Thursday to evacuate some British women and children from Baghdad aboard Iraqi Airways, and Virgin Atlantic Airways said it had Iraqi per­mission to pick up more evac­uees. 
Karen Taylor said at the hotel she was held with other Britons at a site 300 miles from Baghdad -"We were treated well but some children were sick." Most of the foreigners at the hotel were from the United States, Britain, France, Japan and Australia. Government of­ficials told them they could leave after documents are com­pleted -probably this weekend or early next week. 
Iraq had said foreign women 

But Iraqi Ambassador Mohamed al-Mashat said that Iraq was "working to expedite the departure" of the estimated 1 ,000 American women and children in Iraq and Kuwait. 
Iraq has said American men will not be allowed to leave un­less the Bush administration gives assurances it will not at­tack Iraq militarily. 
Bush said he will not allow the presence of the almost 3,000 Americans in Iraq and Kuwait to influence his deci­sions on the Persian Gulf crisis. 
"I feel very concerned about Americans held against their will but we cannot permit hostage-taking to shape the foreign policy of this country," Bush told a news conference. 
and children would be allowed to leave beginning Wednesday. But State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said no exit permits were issued to Americans. 
Tutwiler said Iraqi authori­ties were insisting on a variety of arcane paperwork. 
''This emot.ional roller coaster is inhumane and dis­graceful," the spokeswoman said. 
The State Department has said about one-third of the 3,000 Americans who have been barred from leaving Iraq and Kuwait are women or children age 18 and under. The Americans are among about 21,000 Westerners trapped since Iraq took over Kuwait. 
While the families and friends of hostages hoped for a home­coming, U.S. soldiers' loved ones were saying their good­byes. In rural Allendale, S.C., a town of 4,500 about 80 miles south of Columbia, Ima Jean Rooker fought tears as she prepared to see off her son James, an Army guardsman who turned 20 this month. 
"I just wish that it didn't have to happen like this, that things could have been settled through negotiations," she said. 
SUBWAY DELIVERS TO YOU 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight every day of the week. 

State Road 23 and Ironwood 

Asked whether that means the hostages are expendable, Bush said that question was too hypothetical. 
He added that he believes other leaders with hostages in Iraq and Kuwait also will con­tinue to stick by their policies. 
Tutwiler said Iraqi authori­ties are insisting that each American wishing to leave submit a lAtter, with a transla­tion into Arabic, outlining that objective. The letter must also carry a stamp from fiscal au­thorities certifying that all local taxes have been paid. 
"This emotional roller coaster is inhumane and dis­graceful," she said. "We hesi­tate to dignify these demands as 'exit procedures'. " She said 
the  Iraqi  regulations  are  
"constantly changing and  ex­ 
tremely confusing."  

Other U.S. officials said they are worried that Iraq authori­ties, during their bureaucratic inquiries, may try to elicit from American women information on the whereabouts of their husbands. 
Iraqi troops have rounded up about 70 Americans since the invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
But Americans are continuing to escape the two countries. Tutwiler revised the number of Americans in Iraq from 500 to 400 on Thursday. The last es­timate of Americans in Kuwait was 2,500 but that figure is now considered obsolete be­cause of departures over the past two weeks. There is no es­timate on the number of those who have escaped. 
Tutwiler said the require­ments Iraq has outlined are applicable to American women and children wishing to leave Iraq and it is not clear whether the same procedures will be applied to those in Kuwait. 
About 25 pregnant women and 60 small children are among the Americans eligible to return to the United States under the Saddam's new guide­lines. 
Ambassador al-Mashat de­nied reports that Iraq was in­sisting that any American evac­uation flights arriving in Baghdad carry food and medicines for needy Iraqis. 





TRACKS 
1631 EDISON ROAD 277-8338 
THE AREAS FINEST DISCOUNT MUSIC STORE! NOBODY BEATS TRACKS PRICES!!! WIDEST SELECTION AROUND! MUSIC VIDEOS, T-SHIRTS, POSTERS, BLANK TAPE, & IMPORT CD'S. NEW RELEASES ALWAYS ON SALE!!! 

$11.99 CDS $7.99 TAPES 

INCLUDING: JANE'S ADDICTION-PIXIES-LIVING COLOUR­ANTHRAX -BOB MOULD -DURAN DURAN 
PLUS LOTS MORE ...  
SELECT  
NEWCDS  •  
$9.99 CHEAP TRICK POISON-REO BON JOVI  .R:E·O J';lEDW~'Or::,~• 

• 

PLUS tOO'S OF CLASSIC ROCK CDS $8.99 --$9.99 



------------------~ 
TRACKS 
$2.00 off Any non-sale 
CD 



~_:::~~::___. 
rr-----------------~ 
TRACKS 
$1.00 off Any non-sale Cassette 
Expires 9/14/90 


~------------------· 


Friday, August 31, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Survi'{ors of Illinois ·disaster ponder devastating effects of tornadoes 
PLAINFIELD, IlL (AP) - 
Biology teacher Stephen Hunt  
died when a tornado grabbed a  
truck in front of Plainfield High  
School and dropped it onto the  
second floor of the science de­ 
partment, where he worked.  
Only rooms away, business  
teacher Linda Kinnikin survived  
unscathed.  
Behind the school, which was  
demolished, the twister leveled  
Shirley and Gene Fassiotto's  
home, plucking their car from a  
now nonexistent garage and  
depositing it upside down  
where the living room once  
stood.  
Across the street, Lois  
Moffitt's brick ranch-style  
house still stands.  
The capriciousness of the  
tornadoes that spun across  
AP Photo  northern Illinois on Tuesday,  
Diana Biernat of Plainfield, Ill., searches for belongings Wednesday in  killing 25 people and injuring  
the area where her home was destroyed by tornadoes that swept the  more than 300, is painfully ob- 
area the day before. The storms cut an eight-mile trail in the communi­ vious to the survivors.  
ties 35 miles southwest of Chicago, killing at least 24 people and injur­ "They say tornadoes touch  

in.1g~m~o~re~th~a~ni.i3~0;.;0~.-------------------..down and jump all over the
place," Mrs. Kinnikin said, 


shaking her head Wednesday as she examined the rubble that killed her colleague. 
"In a matter of a minute's 


HOLY CROSS PARISH 
Receive 50°/o off the daily newsstand price 
1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
FALL TERM SPRING TERM FULL YEAR 
218 233 2179 

Monday-Friday $17.25 $17.25 $34.50 Monday-Saturday 20.25 20.25 40.50 
MALE GRADUATE HOUSING I $170 permo 
Monday-Sunday 56.25 56.25 112.50 
Furnished sleeping rooms. 
Sunday only 36.00 36.00 72.00 
Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. For more information call Greg Kletzly at 283-3246 
· 9 month lease time, it all changed," she said. 

Hunt had been talking with Kinnikin only a few minutes be­fore the tornado hit. 
"He was a dedicated teacher," Kinnikin said softly, her eyes brimming with tears. 
Asked how she survived, she shook her head. 
"I heard so much debris hit­ting the windows of the build­ing," she recalled. "There was no visibility because the rain was coming down so hard. 
"And when the window blew, I took off running for the men's bathroom. My department chair and I huddled together in the men's bathroom. I said 'Oh, my God' three times, and it was over." 
When she climbed out of the rubble, she saw the walls in ru­ins, the roof blown off, and smashed cars in the parking lot thrown into a heap. 
At least two dozen people died in the tornadoes that hit Joliet, Crest Hill and Plainfield, about 35 miles southwest of Chicago. 
The twisters left more than 1,000 homes uninhabitable and caused _ov~ __$100 million in damage. The region has been declared a state and federal disaster area. 
And the random misfortunes didn't necessarily stop when the storms left. On Thursday, a truck serving as a mobile kitchen for relief workers ex­ploded and caught fire in Joliet, ­injuring four people, one criti­cally. 
Authorities said a propane tank overflowed while being loaded and the fuel was ignited by a flame from a stove. 
Three people died on the Plainfield school grounds dur­ing the storm, including Hunt. 
Bruch Reed, 15, said Hunt had like been like a second fa­ther to him. 
"I've done so much thinking about the people who died," said Reed, who was at a park a few blocks away when the storm hit and who was unhurt. 
"I suppose we should" feel guilty, "not just because I sur­vived, but because my house was untouched," Reed said. 
"You always think it doesn't happen, and won't happen to you," he said. "It doesn't mat­ter who you are or where you are, it can happen." 
Shirley Fassiotto knows. Her 
home was reduced to boards, 
bricks and plaster strewn 
about the lot. 
"We had just gotten to the 
basement when the walls came 
down," she said. 
Glancing across the street at 
Moffitt's home, she added: 
"You wonder. ... She just 
missed the path (of the 
We're looking for people who look at this glass and say: 


''There's gotta be other glasses of water.'' 

We need people capable of going Andersen Consulting offers you ProfeSSIOnal Education in St Charles, beyond half-full or half-empty the chance to work on a variety Illinois, is just one measure of our thinking. People who see subtleties. of projects-with clients in a wide commitment We train you for a Who are quite frankly bored by easy range of industries. career-notjust a job. answers and off-the-shelfsolutlons. We are the leader in helping Are you the kind of person we're 
People who are constantly orgamzations apply Information talking about? The kind of person challenging their own thinking and technology to their business advan­with an unquenchable desire for are thirsty for new ideas and tage. Every hour of every business challenge and professional growth? knowledge. day, we implement a solution to help If so. come talk to us. And You'll have a degree from a top one of our more than 5,000 clients find out more about a career with schooL Getting a JOb won't really be worldwide. Andersen Consulting. an issue. The question is: which job? What makes that possible is the Which industry? quality of our people. And the quality You don't want to get locked of our training. We're known for both. 
ANDERSEN 
into one area and then discover Because business and tech­three to five years from now that you nology are ever-changing, we see 

CONSULTING 
don't like it. By then you've invested training as a continuing process. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
too much. And our $123-million Center for 
AndersenConsultiOglsanequalopPOflumtyemployer Where we go from here~M
~ 1990 Andersen consulting. AA & Co., S.C. 




FRESHMEN! 
Forget anything? Need stuff for your room? Ifso, take a shopping trip to University Park Mall in Mishawaka: 
Time: Saturday, September 1, 1990 
Main Circle 
Shuttle Schedules: Buses will depart every 30 minutes. First bus leaves at 
10: 00 a.m. and last bus returns to ND at 3:OOp.m. 
Sponsored by Student Government Freshman Orientation Committee 
Campus Interviews -October 5 Sign Up in Placement Office September 3 & 4 

page 8 The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 
•~··············································································• 
• INTERNATIONAl NEWS. • 
• VOICES/Are you concerned about dressing cool? • 
MarkDeboya Jeannette Mayfield Cecelia Voorhees Leonard Barth William Butler Louisa Armbruster 
Student Sales manager Computer programmer Organization exec. dir. Bank security officer Vice-principal 
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla . Chicago, Ill. Battle Creek, Mich. Windber, Penn. Arcadia, N.Y. Fargo,N. D. 
• 

No, there is a large per­Of course. Everybody I'm not only concerned We all have to be con-I dressed cool once and Yes I am. I have a son centage ofpeople who dress should be concerned. about it, but I don't think cerned to the point of not I'm not worried 'about who has joined the working cool and don't die from it. I Dressing cool can cause dressing cool should be re-being complacent about any dressing cool again. But my force and his company had have dressed cool and I'm seizures and it's worse in curring if the proper in-type of dressing cool. concern would be for branch a dressing cool outbreak. not worried about doing it adults. I have a son in a struction was given to chi!-As responsible citizens it's bank managers. I think it's a That bothers me because 
• •e
e For the store nearest you, call • l-800(736-NEWS. • 
···············································································' 


l,,.."'.._..,.,..,.a,.or~..,.--. ...... .-.,.'"'ll,•a.._.__:..._~.~...~•o.•.,:~,~••-•'"'"•J,.,.. .. ..,,..,..~ .. t'"·"•:.... •. ,• .~ '• Jo • ~ • 4 • i-• • • • I •" • • lot • • ~ • • • 111 .. " • • •,. •,. _.-. .. .,. ~ .: ,. ..... •
• • • j • • f .i A .11 t 11 • &.IJ.
11 

Friday, August 31, 1990 


Federal government to promote conservation 
NEW YORK (AP} -The federal government will raise domestic oil production and launch its first energy con­servation advertising cam­paign in more than a decade, Energy Secretary James Watkins said in Friday's New York Times. 
He described the campaign as a response to the Persian Gulf crisis. 
The United States im­ported about 700,000 bar­rels a day from Iraq and Kuwait before the United Nations embargo went into place. That will be made up by December by increasing production from Prudhoe Bay in Alaska, Watkins said in an interview. 
The Energy Department also is seeking another 30,000 barrels a day from Texas and 50,000 barrels more from companies that have developed oil reserves off the coast of Santa Barbara, Calif. 
The new advertising cam­paign will begin in mid-September. It will urge Americans to conserve oil by doing things like inflating their tires to the maximum pressure, driving more fuel­efficient cars and observing speed limits. 

If everyone responded to those measures, almost 200,000 barrels of. oil could be saved daily, Watkins said. 
The department also will promote the use of gasohol. Drivers of the Energy Department's more than 12,000 cars and trucks were directed Thursday to begin buying alcohol-blended fuels in an experiment to measure fuel savings. 
Watkins said he hoped the program would "send sig-· nals to the private sector that we'd like them to do likewise." 
The department has de­cided not to speed up its drafting a new national en­ergy policy for making the country more fuel self-suffi­cient. 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 

Associate News Editors 

To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
The Observer page 9 
Investigators release details of U. of Fla. killings; students hold memorial services 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­Investigators have been dispatched across the state to question possible suspects in the grisly slayings of fivlil students that have paralyzed this college town, police said Thursday. 
Lt. Sadie Darnell, a Gainesville police spokeswoman, said some of the suspects were in custody for other crimes; others are not incarcerated. 
At least four investigators were sent to counties in central Florida. In Bartow, the Polk County Sheriffs Department was holding a man arrested for burglary who discussed the killings after turning himself in to police. But spokeswoman Lynn Breidenbach said he could have learned the information from news reports and is not a prime suspect. 
Police said at a news conference Thursday afternoon that the questioning of a pool of suspects was a significant development. 
"We are very encouraged and excited," Darnell said. 
But "we don't see an imminent arrest," Lt. Spencer Mann of the Alachua County Sheriff's Department cautioned. Police do not have a "hot suspect," he said. 
Authorities, meanwhile, were struggling to contend with an active rumor mill about the "lust killer" who reportedly stole body parts of some victims. 

University of Florida President John Lombardi said the school was operating normally and would not be "held hostage to lunacy." But flags on campus flew at half­staff and the city was being combed by an army of 600 local police, state investigators and FBI agents. 
"We're trying to put a security blanket over this city," said Police Chief Wayland Clifton. 
Despite efforts by police and school officials to provide a safe and sane environment in the opening week of classes, the discovery of the murdered students on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday released a virus of fear. 
The fear was fed by published reports that the killer stole flesh from some of the mutilated victims and left the head of a decapitated victim sitting on a shelf. 
Police have given few details about the mutilations. But the St. Petersburg Times reported that pieces of flesh from the first three victims were missing. The Orlando Sentinel reported that the nipples of the first two victims had been 



John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
tU•III·IIICMMI 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 


CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please au for John O'Maley. 

Happy 19th, Cathy Roumell 
We're proud of you, lil' slugger! 
Love from Mom, Dad 
& 
Steve, Marilyn, Nikolas, Jim, Debbie, Phil, Nicholas, Susan, Lyndsey, Zachary & 
Paul 
"I Can't Believe It's Yogurt" is offering student 
cscouilt cards good for 10% discount on all 
f=·vch,ases To get }Our Cdrd, stop by the stor~· 
k:>c::Jt,on l1sted below 
1635 Edison Rd. * South Bend, Indiana 46637 * (219) 271-9540 (2 blocks east of N.D. stadium) 
Not with any other coupon or promotion. At participating stores 
removed and had not been found. Clifton said it was the work of a "lust killer." 
Fear affected at least one school assignment. Anne G. Jones, an English professor, said a class chose to put off reading "Paris Trout," a novel by Pete Dexter about a psychotic murderer stalking a small town. 
"They decided they didn't want to be reading this novel in the middle of the night," she said. 
The rumor mill generated endless false leads and terrifying new possibilities that hindered the investigation. 
"I've never seen it this bad. It's out of control," said Mann. 
A 24-hour rumor-control hot line at the Alachua County Crisis Center had racked up more than 4,000 calls since Monday's initial fright. 
"They're in full panic," said a female counselor, a UF graduate student who did not want her name used. "The kids are claiming that they're not getting enough information from the authorities." 
The most persistent rumors involved the discovery of more mutilated bodies -but there also were reports of satanism, stolen police uniforms and phony delivery men. Police categorically denied the stories. 
Wednesday's discovery of two bodies in Melrose, a small town 20 miles to the northeast of Gainesville, set off a brief panic until police said the slayings were not related to the student killings. 
Many students left town early for the Labor Day weekend, but Lombardi asserted that things were returning to normal. School officials said the frightened departure of some hundreds of students had little impact on the student body of 34,000. 
Other state universities said they were getting inquiries about transfers. 
Students attended a memorial service Thursday at the St. Augustine Catholic Center, while individual services were planned in the dead students' hometowns. 
More than 1,000 friends and family members attended a memorial service for one of the victims, Sonja Larson. 
"Was it just last week that we sat and talked about the future?" said the Rev. Ken Smith, pastor of First Baptist Church in Pompano Beach, where Sonja and her family went to church for years. 

SOUTH BENo•s FAUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-WEEKLV SPECIRLS-
Rnd ••. of course•••THE BEST 
lJJ)fi ~JJJSJUIC UN 1lJJJJJ1 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS I 
For the best in college olternotiue rock-n-roll 
Thursday thru Sotu.,rd~o.....,_'""!!!!''___-1 
!U............ O 

Fri 8/31 -Sot 9/1 "Rockhouse· uoted Indiana's #1 Bond 
r:

1 S1.00 OFF COUER 1 
; !<UYnNOO••

-------------..
I •ROCKHOUSE • Frl B/31 I 
~I f:'~

I ----I ­
_________..___
c~ef]BIJijij% Sat 9/1 J 1 MileNonhofNoneoOmeonEmmonsRood
L In Georptown ShopPlns'CAnttP • 277·1727 
-----~-~-------------------------­
~--­



Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, August 31, 1990 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ..........•• Amy Eckert Sports Editor •••.................. Greg Guffey Production Manager ...•..•. Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ..•.............• Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ..••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .•................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••••..Corinne Pavlis Controller...........•..........• Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Abortion ''moderates'' hold morally questionable position 
"I do not support abortion. the result of their own past Abortion is wrong. I do, how­mistakes is not a justification ever, support a woman's con­for labelling the medical treat­stitutional right to choose." ment required "immoral." This statement, made by a Second, pro-life advocates Republican Congressional can­argue that abortion is wrong didate, represents a disturbing because the fetus is, or may be, development in the abortion a person. If the fetus is a per­debate. son, then abortion is clearly 
A growing number of murder in all but a few situa­Americans (currently about 30 tions (i.e. where the life of the percent, according to Gallup mother is endangered). If one polls) support this candidate's accepts the premise that a fetus "moderate" position. is, or may be, a person. then Apparently, Americans are un­one must also accept that abor­comfortable with the radical tion is wrong because of the pro-choice position that there gross indifference it displays is nothing morally wrong with towards the rights of unborn abortion, but balk at the pro­children. life position that abortion These are the only two argu­should be banned. Thus, many ments generally presented in Americans have opted for what support of the proposition that they consider a "moderate" po­abortion is wrong. As demon­sition. However, this strated above, one of these ar­"moderate" position is actually guments, that abortion is much more extreme and wrong because it is often used morally questionable than ei­as a substitute for safe sex, is ther the pro-life or pro-choice not worth considering. Thus, positions. there can be only one possible 
The problem with the reason for abortion being im­
"moderate" position is that it moral; abortion is, or may be, 
accepts the pro-life argument murder. Once we reach this 
that abortion is immoral, but conclusion, the problem with 
also accepts the pro-choice po­the "moderate" position be­
sition that abortion should be comes clear: Abortion 
legal in most cases. (To under­"moderates" argue that most 
stand what is so disturbing women who want abortions 
about this, we must first un­should be able to have them, 
derstand why various people but also argue that abortion is 
think abortion is wrong). wrong, meaning that abortion 
First, some people argue that is, or may be, murder. In other 
abortion is wrong in most words, the Republican candi­
cases primarily because it date quoted at the beginning of 
should not, in the words of one this article is really saying "I 
politician, "be used as a substi­support a woman's constitu­
tute for safe sex." This argu­tional right to choose." 
ment, usually made by abortion The indifference to human life 
"moderates," should not be displayed by abortion 
taken seriously. Using the same "moderates" is in sharp con­
logic, heart transplants are trast to the positions taken by 
wrong because they should not both pro-lifers and pro­
be used as a substitute for eat­choicers. The sole issue dividing 
ing right. Likewise, AIDS the pro-life and pro-choice 
treatments would be wrong be­camps is whether or not a fetus 
cause they should not be used is a person. The personhood 
as a substitute for kicking a question is a very murky issue 
drug habit. The simple fact that on which reasonable men and 
a person's medical problem is women can differ. 
DOONESBUAY 
Rick Acker 
In My Oprnron 
There is no accepted tesi. for determining what is and what is not a person; the Catholic Church thinks personhood is achieved at conception, the Economist thinks personhood occurs when brain activity starts (8-10 weeks), the Supreme Court thinks person­hood occurs when the fetus is capable of living outside the womb (20-26 weeks), the old English and American common law thought personhood oc­cured when the fetus began to move in the womb (around the end of the trimester). These are only some of the positions ar­gued for by lawyers, philoso­phers, theologians and doctors. However, I have never heard any pro-choice advocate, no matter how radical, argue, as the ~·moderates" do, that abortion should be legal even if the fetus is a person. Thus, "moderates" are in reality much more extreme than any pro-lifer or pro-choicer. 

Given the difficulties pre­sented by the personhood issue, no one can justly condemn ei­ther pro-lifers or pro-choicers for the positions they take, but both sides should condemn the "moderate" view. Maybe the "moderates" don't realize the shocking implications of their views. Maybe politicians are spouting "moderate" views simply because they are politi­cally popular right now. Whatever the reason, it is time for pro-lifers and pro-choicers to join in speaking out against the extreme and morally ques­tionable "moderate" position on abortion. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student. 

The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues. The first topic is student parking at Notre Dame. What do you like or dislike about the current parking situation? What would you change and how? We're interested in your thoughts! Write them down and send them to P.O. Box Q, The Observer, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. Friday, September 7. 
LETTERS 

Student government seeks opinions 
Dear Editor: to and more importantly, why. I 
This summer, I had the op­was greatly impressed with portunity to spend three weeks their passionate beliefs about in Chile for a service project. government, ethics and world During my stay there I experi­events. enced a variety of people and places and saw many extremes­was also constantly -poverty and wealth, suffering comparing the Catholic and comfort, misery and hap­University of Chile's student piness. government to Notre Dame's 
student government. I admired 
During my stay I met with the the way in which their student Student Body President of the government respected and Catholic University of Chile. The encouraged their fervent discussion we shared brought opinions. me to a few realizations. I learned how different Chilean Fred and I would like to offer students are from those in the-you similar opportunities and United States. The major dis-support here at Notre Dame. tinction that struck me was To begin, we have initiated a their level of involvement in the lecture series to spark discus-political system. Every student I sion and debate about crucial talked to could tell me what issues in our world today. political party he/she belonged Furthermore, we are institut­ing a procedure for filing your complaints as well as your sug­gestions. In addition to this, Fred and I will be visiting every dorm to request your input re­garding how student govern­ment can improve its perfor­mance. We wish to have a sharp awareness of your opin­ions and beliefs in order to give you ample opportunities to ex­plore and express them. 
Fred and I recognize th11 wealth of talent and intelligence among the student body. We wish to tap your energy and 
make this  a  truly invigorating  
year.  
Robert F. Pasin  

Student Body President August 28, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.. ANO IN A 5HOW OF 50l/mRITY IN A R£/ATW Df.VeLOP­
rmz&,
MeNT, 71-1& FIR5TtfJO()fP­

~IN THe. DAY, THE 
FOR THeiR HIT-U'3T&O PEERS, 
{3UOOY1
88 ASSASSINt(J(I5APPRt-
. 

OAMN,. A 5TA7l3M&NT{l)NOfMNING 
Al!THORS GUIW R&lEA5tD 
513V&RA~ MCMBeR5 READ PA5­
HEI-/08[) Yt$'Tl3R1)4Y AT
5AG&S FROM THE EA/<l.Y WOR/5 

[JROP7HE 0 
'The opposite of love is not hate 
A U:0 BUSCAGL-IA L ·

5TA"!P-5PON50R£0 f3(X)K Of'JONG, KORPA IWD 5H&UJON. 
~Nt5/ 

-it's apathy.'
RCVI&/AJ5.,. 
E300J<-51GNING ... 
I
// 
/
I 
Leo Buscaglia "Love" 


- 
Friday, August 31, 1990  Accent  page 11  

•


Some summer movies sizzle,. others fizzle 


ruin what is an overall good movie, The zany characters that get in Grimm's way also make the movie worth watching, espe­ strict set of rules. Just about everything that can possibly go wrong happens, and sometimes the movie gets weighed down with all of the  moments in the film. "Quick Change" is one of those movies where the bad guys are not so bad, and you find yourself hoping that they  
cially the cab driver who  different complications, but the  don't get caught. Do the bank  
doesn't speak English (Tony  main characters are interesting  robbers make it out of New  
Shalhoub) and the bus driver (Philip Bosco) who insists that  enough to carry the movie through the slow moments, and  York City with their loot? Watch "Quick Change" and find  
all of his passengers abide by a  there are several very funny  out.  

Sheen, Biehn display satne old tnacho tnoves in 'Navy Seals' 
ROBYN SIMMONS gonna get you out." Jolena the bad news in what is assistant accent editor The SEALs also discover a truly one of the most hilarious cache of American-made moments of the film. Jolena 
"Navy Seals" tries to be "Top Stinger missiles crated for starts moaning and wailing and Gun" in a wetsuit, but it lacks a shipment to an unknown desti­utters a final "Oh Jesus!!" be­couple of important elements nation, and they spend the rest fore collapsing to the ground. (besides Tom Cruise): a plausi­of the movie returning to the The audience was roaring with ble plot and interesting charac­Middle East to destroy these laughter. ters. The film is a bad guys ver­missiles (and a few more ter­In addition to the formula sus good guys male bonding rorists along the way). plot love interest and fallen formula plot that goes nowhere comrade, "Navy Seals" imitates fast, and it sometimes provides "Top Gun's" famous volleyball more laughs than thrills due to 'Navy Seals' is little scene with a beefhunk golf se­poor acting. quence set to a very bad remake
more than a bunch 
of Thin Lizzie's "The Boys Are Based on a real-life Navy of macho guys doing Back in Town." The scene does commando unit, the acronym nothing to advance the plot
macho things ... 
SEALs stands for their scope (which was never that strong to of operation--on SEa, Air or begin with), but at least the au­Land. The SEALs get to demon­Sheen's character Hawkins is dience gets to see that the Navy strate their abilities in these the eager beaver who's ready to SEALs are just a bunch of regu­areas time and time again be­blast all of the world's terror­lar dudes that like to clown cause they have to keep return­ists to kingdom come, and his around in golf carts on their ing to the Middle East to finish counterpart Curran is the calm, off days. up their job. cool, collected leader who keeps "Navy Seals" is little more 
Hawkins in line. than a bunch of macho guysThere are at least three major doing macho things while shootouts in this movie, and it There is an obligatory love fighting Arab terrorists. When seems as if the SEALs keep for­interest for Curran in the form a woman mourning the deathgetting what their assignment of Claire Verens (Joanne of her fiancee becomes theis, because they have to keep Whalley-Kilmer), an American comical highlight of the film,coming back to shoot a few journalist of Lebanese descent it's a clue that these seals more terrorists and pick up who has important political should remain beached.
where they left off. contacts throughout the Middle East. Claire tells Curran that The SEAL team is led by she can't reveal her sources, James Curran (Michael Biehn) but if he asks her questions she 
How was your summer? 

and Lieutenant Dale Hawkins will answer them. 
Did you have an intemsJ1!p,

(Charlie Sheen). The first time Actually, Claire is not half as 
service project, or interestin~ the SEALs are deployed, they interesting as the love interest 
job? We'd like to hear about 1t are assigned to infiltrate a of one of the other members of for a future Accent page. DropMiddle Eastern seaport where a the SEALs team. Graham a line in the Accent mailbox at 
U.S. Navy helicopter crew is (Dennis Haybert) is engaged to the Observer, 3rd floor of being held hostage. When the Jolena (S. Epatha Merkerson), LaFortune. please include your SEALs discover the hostages, but before their wedding Gra­name and phone number. 
Sheen gets to deliver great lines ham gets blown away on one of like, "We're Navy Seals, we're the missions, and Curran gives 

Murray shovvs skill in 'Quick Change' 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 
Grimm (Bill Murray) is a man with a mission. 
His goal is to rob a million dollars from a downtown bank and to get himself, his girl­friend Phyllis (Geena Davis), his brother Loomis (Randy Quaid) and the money on the next plane out of New York City and fly to a tropical paradise. 
The robbery is a success. Disguised as a clown, Grimm nonchalantly walks into a bank, rounds up some hostages and keeps the chief of police Rotzinger (Jason Robards) at bay with bizarre requests while he collects the money. Both Phyllis and Loomis are dis­guised as hostages, and the po­lice allow the three bank rob­bers to slip through their hands without even knowing it. 
As the trio prepares to cele­brate their success, Grimm makes one final phone call from the other end of town, although the police still think he is in the bank building. Loomis accidentally tips off the cops that the bank robbers are no longer in the bank, and chase begins. Although Rotzinger knows that the bank robbers are somewhere in New York City, he doesn't know ex­actly where in New York City 
they are. 
All that Grimm and his com­panions have to do is get to the airport, catch their scheduled flight, and get out of town. That's where the trouble be­gins. They just can't seem to find a way out of New York City. As the bank robbers try to make their way out of the ur­ban jungle, strange characters get in their way, and they soon realize that there is a very dis­tinct possibility that they will miss their flight. 
Murray's character is a like­able guy, even if he is a bank robber. He tries to keep his girlfriend from giving up and his brother from going com­pletely berserk as each new complication arises. While Grimm is concerned about get­
ting out of New York, Phyllis has other concerns. including whether or not she wants to spend the rest of her life with a bank robber. Loomis just spends a lot of time screaming. 
Quaid's character is pretty one-dimensional, but Murray and Davis work well together as a pair of young bank rob­bers in love. Another problem with the movie is that the pace slows down a bit during the second half, but not enough to 
,__ ~ 
'··---~~,.:;;."' .. 
,;;:Y:lC":::-~% 

In the "I've got to be a macho man" category, (L toR) Rick Rossovich, Michael Biehn and Charlie Sheen play members of a top-notch commando unit battling international terrorists in "Navy Seals." 
w 
pa:e 12 

The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 
I



I -Does God pity mall rats in the City of Young 
"Even the Church can't teach me that God doesn't pity the young," says Scobie, a fictional 

Father Robert Griffin 
character of Graham Greene's, 
in response to a priest's rather 
Letters to a Lonely God
stupid reaction to a young 
man's suicide. 
Greene later gave the back of this hand to the reviewer who should any generation feel so tention to the teenagers drifting attributes that line of dialogue sorry for itself that it claims through the shopping centers, to him: "I am not Scobie.... the right above all others to punching aimlessly into game Something said by an imaginary call itself the "lost generation?" machines? They have access to character... should not be · In "The Spropshire Lad," the many material things: quoted out of context as an poet Housman wrote: "Up, lad, lightweight earphones, cellular opinion of the author." up 'tis late for lying/ Hear the phones, TV dinners, designer 

Graham Greene was already a drums of morning play/ Hark, sneakers. They ride the school pensioner when he fired off a the empty highways crying/ bus "full of elementary school letter to the editor denying that 'Who'll beyond the hill away?'/ hotshots already affiicted with he personally believes God must Clay lies still, but bloods a eye shadow and pierced ears pity the young, and who could rover/ Breath's a ware that and heavy-metal language. But blame him for the denial? Pity, will not keep./ Up, lad; when the so many are raked by neglect, as a human emotion, is highly journey's over/ There'll be time so many are yielding silent condescending. Once you con­enough for sleep." screams of agony." vince yourself that the young are pitiable, you don't have to This may be sentimental po­Would I recognize the "mall envy them for just beginning etry that sounds cynical, or rats," if they came to Notre the springtime of their lives. cynical poetry that sounds sen­Dame as students? Who are the 
All of us make use of the lies timental, but it's an appropri­freshmen who enroll here, any­that will save us sweat. I've ate description of boys who will way? Did many of them grow been receiving mail alleging die young as soldiers. However, up as latchkey kids? How can I that Christians have no reason when I meet the "mall rats" at be a hotshot whom they will be­for feeling guilty over the the shopping center, I can't find come attached to as though I deaths of six million Jews, since a Spropshire lad among them. were a young deacon taking the the Holocaust was only a media parish by storm? event. If I were a Jew, I might A young rabbi with parish be tempted to reply that if the experience writes of parents The rabbi serves the young Holocaust is a media event, so hurting their kids. The bruises, mavericks of his synagogue as was the Crucifixion, since it's he says, are not always physi­a surrogate parent; but even in no more mindless and glib to cally evident. "I try to be patient my days as a Notre Dame stu­deny Calvary than it is to shrug with young people who won't dent, in loco parentis was not off the existence of the death stop clinging to me, their eyes the role a priest could play. My camps. empty of light, their breath father died when I was a col­
It's as maudlin to say that unfamiliar, their mannerisms lege freshman. No substitutes 
the young should be pitied as it strange, their whining, yearning were sought, no substitutes is the young, caught in a war, to be noticed sometimes too 
volunteered themselves and I to pity themselves as a lost much for me to bear. When love have always considered in loco 

,. -generation. Every generation is unevenly distributed, or sim­parentis the ground which an­has had its own stupid war ply held aloof it burns off the gels should fear to tread on. which lads must fight and die soft edges of young hearts." Years ago in Times Square, I in, says T.S. Eliot, but why Why haven't I paid more at-used to listen to a street preacher in bell-bottom trousers; he offered salvation in Christ to kids on drugs. Trusting him, many of them be­came Jesus-freaks. In the shopping malls or at Notre Dame, I don't think I could turn the losers into winners, reach­ing their fulfillment on free grace. 
Even the Catholic religion which I believe in as a priest isn't the drawing card it used to be. I get a ton of mail from Catholics asking me if Notre Dame is still Catholic. When I reply that it is, I find myself ac­cused of white-washing the stains which are diminishing the luster of the Golden Dome. I tell them: "If you don't want to believe me, believe that good things are happening in the hall chapels and Sacred Heart Church." 
"How about the scandals?" I am then asked. The scandals they have in mind have nothing to do with Bruce Ritter at Covenant House, or with the Archbishop of Atlanta. The bashers have their own list of Domer scandals which they love to blow to the size of white elephants and to use them to 
bring shame on the place. 
I love the Church because I love the Christ of the Gospels, and His showcase is the Church, which gave us the Gospels. As a student, I learned to love Notre Dame for making the Church visible, near and dear to me. If any students want to learn to appreciate Notre Dame as the City of the Blessed Sacrament, I'd be happy to share my time-tested faith with them. 
Christ fed the multitude who were like sheep in the wilder­ness without a shepherd. Per­haps Domers who remember what it's like to hunger for bread in the wilderness could become missionaries to the teenagers in need of a friend who hang around shopping centers. 
Would the Center of Social Concerns be interested in un­dertaking a mission to the "mall rats" who roam Scotts­dale on the lookout for the Pied Piper willing to tempt them with visions of the Big Rock­candy Mountain? 


Give to the United Way. 

The bus makes FOUR runs during the night, leaving Campus View at... 

12:35am  1:25Clm  2:15am  3:00am  
The service runs both Friday and Saturday nights,  
stops in-between include Bridget's,  on  the following dates ...  
ND Ave. (at South Bend A venue)  August 31, Sept. 1  Oct. 19,20  
Notre Dame Main Circle  Sept. 7, 8 Sept. 14, 15  Nov. 2,3 Nov. 9, 10  
Sponsorer:: by HPC  Sept. 21,22 Sept. 28,29  Nov. 16, 17 Nov. 30, Dec. 1  
Oct. 5,6  Dec. 7, 8  
Oct. 12, 13  Dec. 14, 15  

Sponsored by HPC 

Friday, August 31, 1990 
ND football to play the most rigorous schedule in nation 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (AP) -Notre Dame this season faces the toughest schedule in the 13 years the NCAA has sur­veyed schedules before the sea­son begins. 
Notre Dame's opponents in the coming season had a collec­tive 81-32-4 record last year. That . 709 winning percentage is the highest since Notre Dame opponents had a . 708 winning percent in the 1979 preseason poll. 
Eight of Notre Dame's 11 op­ponents went to bowls last year and only two were beaten in bowl games. 
Florida has the second toughest schedule and is among seven Southeastern Conference teams in the top 30 in the sur­vey. Seven independents were in the top 30 along with six PAC­10 teams. 

The Observer page 13 
•



Agassi advances 1n 
NEW YORK (AP) -Andre Agassi, cursing and spitting at the umpire, talked his way out of trouble and barely beat a hobbled Petr Korda in a tense and dramatic U.S. Open match on Thursday night. 
Agassi was given a warn­ing and a point penalty, which was rescinded mo­ments later in the second set after the umpire conferred with the tournament referee. Agassi went on to a 7-5, 5-7, 6-0, 6-4 victory over Korda, who turned his ankle in the eighth game of the fourth set but refused to quit. 

Korda received treatment for his ankle, then came back and won the next point with a backhand crosscourt while limping badly. Agassi served an ace to win the game and take a 5-3 lead, but again Korda grimaced and held on. Korda held serve, limping continuously, but couldn~t stop Agassi's service for the match. 
For one marvelous set, 

U.S. Open 
Steffi Graf played in one of those zones that tennis play­ers love, spaced out beyond the ozone, hitting perfect shots past a most imperfect opponent. 
Graf, going for her third straight U.S. Open title, came back to earth after that stretch and settled for a 6-1, 6-3 victory over 18­year-old Rachel McQuillan, a promising Australian who simply was overwhelmed, to advance to the third round. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 L.'nts per character per day, includin~ spaces.

Classifieds 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME BEST BUY ON CAMPUS *MUST SEE*
WALK TO ND 6838889 OR2876389 REFRIGERATOR-$45 RECLINER CHAIR 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE Furnished room, air, kitchen. EXCELLENT CONDITION-1 YR.
287-4082 phone line. Close to campus. 2.12 ONLY $75 CALL X2051 0615 
•MUST SELL•MORRISSEY LOAN FUND HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. EDDY Kaypro2xCOMPLETEOne month student loans up to WIPRINTER,MODEM,WORDPROST. -6 BEDROOMS, 2 FULL$250. Inquire at 2nd floor BATHS, LIVING ROOM, EAT-IN CESS,SPREDSHT,GREATMANUof LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 

KITCHEN AND FINISHED ROOM ALS,MORE! PD $1800+, $500 OR IN BASEMENT. LEASE OFFER@239-6764


LOST/FOUND 
REQUIRED THROUGH 5131191. $720/MO. $600 SECURITY. 
CARPET9X12NICE! KINDATAN CONTACT TAMMI AT 232-1242. $50obo@2396764 

My blue Notre Dame bookbag was taken from a locker at A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION ZENITH PC--5114 & 3 1/2the bookstore on 8/24. It had NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD valuable files in it. If you 
DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON can help me find this bookbag DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 
FX-85 PRINTER. $1 ,000 OR BEST and its contents, please call 
OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX Desmond at 271-56g3. No FOR SALE 

AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. questions asked. COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
REFRIGERATOR FOR DORM,FOUND: 19" COLOR TV, TWO $95.00. PHONE 291-4228. 

reddish rimmed glasses SEMESTERS $110, ONE outside of O'Shag this Tues. SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO call x4053. SEMESTERS $110, ONE TICKETS 
SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME.

WANTED \ 
5959. Q.LL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192. WANTED-Subway delivery 
On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak driver/counterperson for Notre FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL 
Hill condo like new condition, 2 Dame & St. Mary's. Uniforms, 
bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR meals, and hourly bonus. MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON
location in complex. $65,900. Applicants must have dependable CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 9/21 & 9/22. $119.50/PERSON transportation. Call 277-7744 for REALTY 282-2351. BUT DBL OCCUPANCY interview appointment. REQUIRED. CALL 233-7056. TWIN BED LOFT FOR SALE. SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED 
PROFESIONALL Y MADE AND CLUB. SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK 
READY TO ASSEMBLE. $100.00 VISA & MASTERCARD APTS. 273-9406. 
289-8404 AFTER SPM. ACCEPTED. 

SITTER NEEDED TWO COUCH & 1 0 speed bike.272-6306 WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A State.Call316-775-6143 after WEEK. MUST DRIVE, 
Zenith PC: One 5114 floppy, one 3 6pm. Leave message. KNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­
112 floppy. 30 megabyte, hard 8380 drive, color monitor, Epsom FX-85 HELP!!!! printer, some software, $1 ,000 or Parents' first and last chance Needed: Assistant coaches for 
best offer. Michael Marx, 234-6955 to see an ND football game. local age group swim team 2 to 4 Desperately need 2 GA's and one 
evenings per week. Call233-1366. Two airline round-trip tickets from student ticket for MICHIGAN. Newark to please call AMY (R.) DRIVERS NEEDED. $7-10/HR. 272-8954
South Bend Oct. 12-14. $215 NIGHTS. DOMINO'S PIZZA, 271­
each. Call Leo (201) 922­0300. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
2184 TICKETS PLEASE!!-GRATEFUL ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR

I NEED GA'S TO PENN STATE DEAD OHIO SHOWS. CALL 
BISEXUAL? Student Discussion 

CALL KENNY AT 271-9349 
DEBBIE 287-3592. Groups meeting weekly. For time and place call Mike 237-0788. WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN 


PERSONALS 

WANTED GA'S CALL TOM X1441 ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college Campus rock band PHOENIX teachers, unable to have children. looking for lead singer. ClassicH E L P!!! 
Husband has adopted sisters. We rock--no wimps! are responsible, caring people NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY ready to share our love with a call Peter x1414 WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS 
much wanted baby. Medical
PAYING TOP$$$$$ 

expenses paid. Confidential and
CALL JEFF@277-3998 legal. Please call collect anytime HI ALL! except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512.

WANTED hiag Established R&B/Punk/Garage One set of season student tickets. 

Band seeks singer. No ChorusWill pay for tickets plus 50.00 to to those living in the 'LOVE SHAK'­Boys. Drano garglers encouraged. 

you. Call Doug at x1245. 

-you know who you are. we will No metal silliness. Must be highly sleep close, sweat close, and be motivated and willing to gig often. 
HELP!! 

close. fire up for a fabulous year of Boozers welcome. Call Rick at painting fingernails and all that fun 1121 or Dave at 1354 for moreDesperately need 2 GA's for NO vs stuff. information.
Penn State. Willing to pay big $1! 

THE SHIRT THE SHIRT PRAYER MEETINGCall 283-4321. 
ITS GREEN ITS GREEN Thursdays@ 7:30pm Green ND shirts to wear for the Siegfried Chapel NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI, Michigan game ...orders being ?? call Eileen x4815 PURDUE,MICHIGAN, 
taken NOW thru August 31 See
STANFORD, OR PENN STATE. 

your REP for details. Can you hack thePLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. 
DON'T MISS OUT! MONSTER FUNK? 
Need 2 Miami GA's *THE SHIRT" -on sale now! Bassist and singer with hard Call Matt x3630 JUST DO IT funk chops and attitude 
needed to step in where Okay, any student tickets for NO -MICHIGAN GAME TARTAR GUN left off-CHILlS: Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, wear *The Shirt" ORDER NOW COLOUR:BONE:SPVZ: etc. please call Paige at x2980. This is (LAST DAY FOR ORDERS IS Jason (x1845) 
serious. FRIDAY, AUGUST 31) Vince (287-9566) 
IF YOURE NOT USING YOUR OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS FUNK IS COLORBLIND! FOOTBALL TIX APPLICATION 
GRAD STUDENTS CALL JERRY X2379 FACULTY MEMBERS DO YOU WANT TO BOOGIE??!!! Purchase *The Shirt" for $8 at the STOP BY 
SUB Secretary's Desk, 2nd floor THEODORES LaFortune. THURSDAY, FRIDAY 
~~ 
AND SATURDAY All Graduate Student Enjoy the atmosphere, good Welcome back celebration friends and your favorite Friday, August 31, 8:00PM tunes by your favorite DJs. Wilson Commons' Lounge 
NEED A QUICK AND TIMELY 
HI! 

GETAWAY?? DO 
YOURSELF A FLAVOil 
PATfi[S 

NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS 
HEAD TO CHICAGO FOR THIS
-"-..... ~ ..
....... _ 

PLEASE CALL KARIN AT SATURDAY!! 
Di~;f~r2"f~$8':'99___ 
X1992 
WINDY CITY SHUTTLE IS AWANTED-TIX 

DEAL

MIA-N.D. GAME Beige Carpet Need $$$?Sell 11 save over $2.50 I 
1 yr. old 6x12 Usa and Amy: AT 8 DOLLARS FOR THIS FIRST 
CALL 800-323-7687 your ga's to all I Pick anv two Gourmet Sandwiches, I & Computer desk home games. I two Garden Salads, plus your choice of I TRIP, ITS REALLY QUITE A 
Happy 19th Birthdays, good deal Call tom x1597. I French Fries or Onion Rings and' 1 Gork and Mickster! STEALChicago Tribune carriers Chrissy x4828 -------------------------------------Mini-sundaes I Don't celebrate so much that GET YOUR TICKETS AT THEneeded for immediate campus $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ L •xeation date 9/9 .... you fall and then can't get up! LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER morning delivery. 
REFRIGERATORS for sale, I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S II S~d;----------II Love, lve and Bride INFORMATION DESK
Some collecting required $40-$120. Will deliver. Also Mace, NAME YOUR PRICE!!! I 99"' I TELL THEM PAUL SENT YOUand dependibility a must. 
$7. 234-0515 #3501 ~ 1 PLEASE HELP! PLEASE HELP!
Call City News Service, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I Buy any size sundae and I NEED TO BUY SOMEONE'S $5 HAIRCUTS!!!!
232-3205. 
FOOTBALL TICKET 



------------------------------------I receive a ~ond one of the~ REGULAR & ROTC
2.1 cu. ft. Avanti Refrig. $50 x5456 

Desperately neeo 1 Michigan 1 same stze for 99~ 1 APPLICATION. IF YOUR NOT
••• ANYONE NOT BUYING ••• ticket-student or GA. Call Barry at ..1 ________________expiration date 9/9 ..... GOING TO BUY FOOTBALL VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
1765 after 6pm. I
••• STUDENT TICKETS ••• LOFTS: Call Joe or Jim ·­288-3461 
TICKETS, SELL YOUR 1523 LINCOLNWAYWEST I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR APPLICATION TO ME FOR BIG SOUTH BEND
DESPERATELY SEEKING HELP!!!! I NEED 1 STUDENT BUCKS!!!!! 
MICHIGAN TICKET-BIG BUCKS!II CALL KEVIN x1409 or stop 233-4767 APPLICATION #289-9654 
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME SENIOR STUDENT SEASON 
CALL MO x4805 by 91 1 FLANNER 
GAMES.272-6306 football TIX APPLICATION SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN Will trade 2 MICHIGAN, 2 Air Force HISTORIC PARK AVE. 

3 Miami tickets desperately To the JELLY DONUTS in last GA's, AND/OR $for 2 MIAMI GA's. 
call x3950 or x1342

NEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 BETH·NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! needed: Kathy x2567 year's first floor S--T ALLEY, Money is no objecVparents will pay MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + (aka The 3 John's, Slick, Rich, big bucks --call Mike at x18021/2 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO can trade for junior tix
Student tickets needed for PLEASE HELP ME !I !II Toddles, etc.) 
239-7207 OR 289-3668. 
Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s We really missed you this summer. Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air 
PENN ST. TIX NEEDED

Air Force. We're looking forward to partying Force!
CALL SCOTT 234-3356 

Please sell me your tickets II!! with you this semester. BUT, if you call Julie X1992 
FOR RENT 
Call Beth at 288-0597 keep up this 7 -day party streak, all 
If you're not using your football 

Call Cathy at 273-9624. those smart, hot " chicks" won't Come and experience the
3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER ticket application, please call Jim at
Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need want to be around your beer tires opening night of
APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES 288-9266. I'm desperate and 
PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757-$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ and will be embarassed by your 
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282-wealthy.
1934, Bill. I need student or GA's stupid drunk antics(hint, hint) ••• ZALAND •••
1014. 
forMICHIGAN and MIAMI We're looking forward to your next
Need Michigan tickets 
Need two MIAMI tickets for 

719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 Will pay big bucks!!!!!!! call Molly at 4189 party streak! Know we love you. Keenan's top rated pizza shop 
long lost WEAL THY uncle 

BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM CALL TOM 271-8245 Love, Sunday night 9:30 -12:30 in the 
287-3472 Scotty us basement of Keenan HallCAMPUS. ATTACHED GARAGE. I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 

BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING Parents will take back tuition INEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!! 
TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 

!sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. orl Sally G., Any girls Iron ND and SMC whoROOt.~. BIG DINING ROOM. if I don't come throughllllllll
2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 

SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 !stud. =O.k. Older bro +sis II!!!! I am enthralled by your luscious would like to work in Keenan's
Call Mike X3506 
2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket 

RHONDA. coming for 1st game $$3022! baby blues, your golden locks, and pizza shop, ZALAND, call Thorn at 
for Air Force your captivating personality. I think x3334 for information. Its a good

NEED 2 MICH GA'S
273-9469 Diane of you often. You truly light up my place to meet 300 guys with NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and CALL LORI1918 life. I am so ashamed of my true Keenan Revue tickets. Preparesecure fum. apt: 755 South Bend I NEED FOUR MICHICGAH 

DESPERATELY need 3 Michigan feelings that I cannot bring myself now!

Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., STUDENT OR GA TICKETS! WANNA TRADE??? 
tix and 3 Purdue tix. Stud!GA. 

to reveal my identity for I fear that references. 616-483-9572. CALL CESAR AT #2506 NEED 2 MIAMI STUD TIX
Aileen 259-9638. PLEASEII!!I!II 

these feelings are not I need Michigan tickets, 
CALLAMY1918 

reciprocated. student or GA. Call 41892 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES 
78 Ford Fairmount 6 cylinder FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON Need 1 St1:1dent Ticket or WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
All my love, and ask for Molly. 
automatic, no rust, good tires, Your knight in shining425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 2 GA's for the Miami game. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 

runs fine, $1275.00, call armour? sdgf232-3616 Call Shari x3781 COLL:1-312-745-721 0.

Mark 232-1846 


Scoreboard 

page 14 
Friday, August 31, 1990 


BASEBALL STANDINGS SPORTS CALENDAR 
Thursday, August 30
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
No sports scheduled 
w L Fcl ~ L10 Streak 

Boston 73 57 562 8-2 Won? 
Friday, August 31

Toronto 67 64 5tt 6t/2 2-8 Wont Detrott 6t 69 469 t2 z-7-3 Wont 
Volleyball at Washtngton State lnvttatlonal

Balttmore 60 69 465 t2t/2 z-3-7 Wont Mtlwaukee 60 69 465 t2 112 z-7-3 Lost t 
Saturday, Ssptember 1 

Cleveland 59 7t 454 t4 3-7 Lost 4 AUGUST 31 ~ SEPT.1• at WASHINGTON ST.INV'TNL 17 Lost t
New York 56 74 43t z-6-4 
West Division Men s socoar vs DAYTON, t p m SEPTEMBER 7-8 • NOTRE DAME INV'TNL Volleyball at Washington State Invitational
w L Fcl ~ L10 Streak SEPTEMBER 14-15 • at BIG FOUR TOURNAMENT 
Oakland 8t 49 623 4-6 Wont Chtcago 74 55 574 6t/2 z-4-6 Sunday, Ssptember 2 SEPTEMBER 28 • PENN STATE SEPTEMBER 29 • MIAMI (OHIO) OCTOBER 5-6 • GOlDEN DOME ClASSIC OCTOBER 9 • LOYOIA/MARQUETTE OCTOBER 14 • OHIO STATE OCTOBER 21 • at MINNESOTA OCTOBER 23 • at PURDUE OCTOBER 24 • BUTLER OCTOBER 27 • at PITISBURGH OCTOBER 28 • at PENN STATE NOVEMBER 1 • IWNOIS NOVEMBER 3 • WESTERN MICHIGAN NOVEMBER 6 • XAVIER!DAYfON NOVEMBER 9 • COWRADO NOVEMBER 13 • NORTHWESTERN NOVEMBER 16·17 "at MCC CHAMPIONSHIPS NOVEMBER 23·24 • at WHATABURGER CLASSIC  



21-22 • at RHODE ISLAND TOURNAMENT Wont Texas 66 64 508 t5 4-6 Lost 3 Cal1forn1a 66 65 504 t5t/2 z-6-4 Won5 Women's soccer vs N E MISSOURI, t p m Kansas Ctty 65 65 
500 t6 z-7-3 Lost t Seattle 63 67 485 t8 3-7 Lost t Mtnnesota 59 72 450 22 t/2 4-6 Lost t TRANSACTIONS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE BASEBALL
East Division 
National League w L Fcl ~ L10 Streak MONTREAL EXPOS-Acqwred Orlando 

Ptttsburgh 75 54 58t z-5 5 Wont 
Mercado, catcher, on wa1vers from the New York New York 73 55 570 t t/2 5-5 Won3 Mets Montreal 67 62 
5t9 8 z-5-5 Lost t PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Traded Carmela Chtcago 6t 68 473 t4 z-4-6 Lost2 Mart1nez, outflelder-ftrst baseman, to the Pittsburgh
St Louts 60 70 462 t5 t/2 z-5-5 Won2 Ptrates for Wes Chamberlain and Julio Peguero
Phtladelphta 59 69 46t t5 t/2 2-8 Lost3 outfielders 
West Division 
BASKETBALL w L Fcl ~ L10 Streak National Basketball Association 

Ctncmnatt 75 54 58t 7-3 Wont 
NEW JERSEY NETS-Watved Charles Los Angeles 
70 60 538 St/2 z-8-2 WenS Shackleford, forward San Franc1sco 67 63 5t5 8t/2 z-6-4 Lost t 
PHOENIX SUNs-Agreed to terms With NageleSan Otego 60 68 
469 t4t/2 4-6 Lost 2 Kmght, guardHouston 58 72 446 t7 t/2 5-5 Wont UTAH JAZZ-S1gned AI Banmster, center, to a Atlanta 50 80 385 25 t/2 5-5 Lost2 one-year contract 
z-denotes f1rst game was a w1n 

FOOTBALL AMERICAN LEAGUE National Football League Thursday's Ga..-ATLANTA FALCON&-S1gned Shawn Lee, nose Late Game Not Included tackle, and George Streeter, safety Chtcago 4, Mtnnesota 3 CLEVELAND BROWNs-Agreed to terms wtth Oakland 6, Kansas Ctty 5 Clay Matthews, linebacker Balttmore 6, New York t MIAMI DOLPHIN&-S1gned Jell Dellenbach, Boston 9, Cleveland 2 oflens1ve tackle, to a two-year contract Detrott at Seattle, (n) NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Agreed to terms w1th Only games scheduled 
Pat Swilling, linebacker The Observer/ Mlchael F Muldoon Friday's Ga..-NEW YORK GIANTS-Claimed Kent Wells, New York (Cary 5-8) at Boston (G Hams tt-5) 7 35 p m detens1ve tackle, off wa1vers from the Washington 

U.S. OPEN

Toronto (Wells 9-4) at Cleveland (Swtndell t0-7), 7 35 p m Redskms and Tom Rehder, offensive tackle, off Detrort (J M Robmson t 0-9) at Mtnnesota (P Abbott 0-t ), 8 05 p m wa1vers from the New York Jets Waived Wtnlred Balttmore (Mrtchell 6-5) at Mtlwaukee (R Robtnson 7-3), 8 35 p m Bryant, nose tackle, and Kenneth Vtnes, center Chtcago (Htbbard t 0-8) at Caltfornta (Langston 8-tS), t 0 35 p m PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Watved Dave Results Thursday from the $6 35 m1ll1on U S Open Andrew Castle, Bntain, and Roger Smith, Texas (Moyer t-5) at Oakland (Welch 2t-5), tO 35 p m R1mmgton, center Clatmed James Gray, runn1ng Bahamas, del Marty Dav1s, Harbor Bay Isle Calif ,
tenniS tournament held at the USTA National Kansas Ctty (S Davts 7-9) at Seattle (R Johnson t2-8), tO 35 p m back, off wa1vers from the New England Patnots and Stefan Kruger, South Alnca 6-3, 5-7, 6-2
Tenms Center (seedings 1n parentheses)Saturday's Ga..-HOCKEY Brad Pearce, Provo, Utah, and Kent Kinnear,
Men New York at Boston, t 05 p m National Hockey League Singles Greenwood, lnd , del Todd Nelson, San D1ego, Chtcago at Caltfornta, 4 05 p m BOSTON BRUIN&-S1gned Matt DelgUidice, and Bryan Shelton, Huntsville, Ala, 6-3, 6-4
Second Round 
Texas at Oakland, 4 05 p m goaltender Brad Gilbert (8), Oakland, Calif, del R1ck Leach Wayne Ferretra and P1et Norval, South Afnca, Toronto at Cleveland, 7 05 p m NEW YORK RANGERS-Named Cohn del Enc Amend, Los Angeles, and Manus Barnard,
Laguna Beach, Calif, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-2 Detrott at Mtnnesota, 8 05 p m Campbell asststant coach Announced the South Afnca, 6-2, 3-6 7-5
Aaron Knckstetn (9), Grosse P01nte, M1ch , del 
Balttmore at Mtlwaukee, 8 35 p m rettrement of Dav1d Archtbald, center Jason Stoltenberg, Australia, 6-4, 6-2, 6-4 Women 
Kansas Ctty at Seattle, t 0 05 p m QUEBEC NORDIOUES-S1gned Steven Ftnn, Singles
Michael Chang (tt ), Placentia, Caltf, del 
SUnday's Games delenseman, to a two-year contract Jimmy Anas, Buffalo, NY, 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-2 Second Round 
Detrott at Mtnnesota, t t5 p m Amencan Hockey League Franco Davin, Argentina, del Glenn Arantxa Sanchez Vtcano (6), Spam, del 
Toronto at Cleveland, t 35 p m AHL-Named Macgregor Ktlpatnck VICe 
Layendecker, Boston, 6-7 (8·1 0), 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 Caroline Kuhlman, Lakes1de Park, N Y , 6-t, 6-2 Balttmore at Mtlwaukee, 2 35 p m pres1dent-1eague general counsel G1lad Bloom, Israel, del Johan Anderson Conchita Martmez (t 0), Spatn, del Cs1lla Chtcago at Caltfornta, 3 05 p m Bartos Switzerland, 6-0, 6-4
NEW HAVEN NIGHTHAWKS-Named Roy 

Australia, 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, t 6, 7-6 (7-3) Mlakar governor
Texas at Oakland, 4 05 p m Darren Cah1ll, Australia, del M1lan Sr1eber Jenn1fer Capnatt (13), Broken Sound, Fla , del Kansas Ctty at Seattle, 4 35 p m Patnc1a Hy, Canada, 6-3, 6-t
SOCCER Czechoslovakia, 6-3, 2-0, ret

Major Soccer League

New York at Boston, 8 05 p m Elna Remach, South Alrtca, del Alex1a
Bons Becker (2), West Germany, del Yanmck
CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Stgned Otto Or! 
Dechaume, France, 6-3, 6-0

Noah, France, 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 (7-2)NATIONAL LEAGUE Sabme Appelmans, Belgium del Willrud
goaltender, to a one-year contract 

Gary Muller, South Afnca, del J1m Couner (t4)Thursday's Games Dade C1ty, Fla, 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (7-5) Probst, West Germany, 6-4, 6-4
SAN DIEGO SOCKER&-Announced that Bnan 
0Utnn, forward, w1ll be a player-coach for the t990

New York t2, San Franctsco 2 S1lke Me1er, West Germany, del Momque Javer, 
Patnck Cash, Australia, del Mark Kratzmann,9t season
Los Angeles 3, Phtladelphta 2 Bntatn, 7-5, 7-5
Australia, 6-4, 2-6, 2-6, 6-t, 6-4 St Louts 5, Atlanta 3, t2 tnntngs Ann Grossman, Grove Ctty Ohto, del Beltnda
Western Soccer League 

Cnstlano Caratt1, Italy, del Dernck Rostagno,Ctnctnnatt 6, Chtcago 5 Cardwell, New Zealand, 6-2, 6-3
CALIFORNIA EMPERORS-Stgned M1ke Fox, 

Pac1!1c Palisades, Calif, 3-6, 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, t-6, 7-6 Only games scheduled (11-9) Nathalie Tauz1at, France, del Emanuela Zardo, m1dl1elder 
COLLEGE

Friday's Games Switzerland, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2
Andrei Cherkasov, Sov1et Unton, del Henn
ARIZONA STATE-Named Carol Berger

Ctnctnnatt (Charlton t 0-7) at Chtcago (Harkey t2-6), 3 20 p m Raffaella Regg1, Italy, del Sandy Wasserman,
Leconte, France, t-6, 6-t, 6-4,6-3 women's ass1stant golf coach 
Los Angeles (Morgan tO-tt) at Montreal (Nabholz 2-0), 7 35 p m Belgium, 6-2, 6-2
Tomas Carbonell, Spatn, del Scott Dav1s,
COLBY-Named Thomas E Smith and Dav1d

San Franctsco (Robmson t0-4) at New York (Vtola t6-9), 7 35 p m Momca Sales (3), Yugoslavia, del Rosalyn
Dav1e, Fla, 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 San Otego (Rasmussen 8-t3) at Phtladelphta (Mulholland 7-8), 7 35 p m Goran lvan1sev1c, Yugoslavia, del Jean Fatrbank-Nideffer, San D1ego, 6-2, 6-2Kilborn assistant football coaches and Carol Anne 
Beach sports InformatiOn dtrector 

St Louts (Deleon 7-t3) at Atlanta (Smeltz tt-9), 7 40 p m Philippe Fleunan, France, 6-4, 6-2, 3-6, 6-I Katenna Maleeva (7), Bulgana, del Kartn
CORNELL-Named Mark Taylor assistant 

Ptttsburgh (Z Smtth 9-7) at Houston (Scott 9-t2), 8 35 p m Lutz Mattar, Braztl, del Palohe1mo, Finland, 6-4, Kschwendt, Luxembourg, 7-5, 6-t
hockey coach, Tyrone Beaman men's assistant 

Saturday's Games 6-0, 3-6, 2-6, 6-3 Barbara Paulus (t6), Austna del Lon McNeil,
basketball coach, Kathryn Brawn women's 
Houston, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4

San Franctsco at New York, t 35 p m assistant soccer coach, Elizabeth Bnggs Couch Amos Mansdorl, Israel, del Serg1 Bruguera, 
Ctnctnnatt at Chtcago, 2 20 p m Spain, 7-6 (8-6), 6-2, 2-6, 6-3 Laura G1ldeme1ster, Peru, del Naoko
assistant field hockey and lacrosse coach and San Otego at Phtladelphia, 2, 5 35 p m Michael Sheller men's volunteer ass1stant Chnsto van Rensburg, South Afnca, del Patnck Sawamatsu, Japan, 7-5, 6-3 
St LoUts at Atlanta, 7 t 0 p m basketball coach McEnroe, Oyster Bay, NY, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 Mana Strandlund, Sweden, del Manon Los Angeles at Montreal, 7 35 p m Doubles Bollegraf, Netherlands, 4-6, 6-t, 7-5
DARTMOUTH-Named M1ke Brass strength and 

Pmsburgh at Houston, 8 05 p m RtstRound Zma Garnson (4), Houston, del Angelica
cond1!10ntng coach and Steve Pltsk assistant SUnday's Games strength and condillomng coach Jav1er Frana, and Chnst1an MlniUSSI, Argentina, 
Gavaldon, Coronado, Calif , 6-4, 6-0 Los Angeles at Montreal, t 35 p m del Dav1ds Paul Jana Novotna (t2), Czechoslovakia, del Kathy
GRAMBLING-Named Larry Wnght men's Hennk and Haarhu1s, 
San Franc1sco at New York, t 35 p m ass1stant basketball coach Netherlands, 6-3, 6-2 • Rinaldi, Amelia Island, Fla , 6-4, 6-3 
Patty Fend1ck, Sacramento, Calif , del

San D1ego at Ph1ladelph1a, t 35 p m HARTFORD-Named J B Nickles men's tenn1s Omar Camporese, Italy, and Javter Sanchez, Radka 
Zrubakova, Czechoslovakia, 6-2, 6-3 St LOUIS at Atlanta, 2 t 0 p m MARIST-Named Sullivan director of Czechoslovakia, 6-4, 6-4 Stell\ Graf (t ), West Germany, del Rachel 
C1nc1nnatl at Chicago, 2 20 p m coach Spain, del Tomas Sm1d and Cynl Suk, 
Dan Pittsburgh at Houston, 2 35 p m sports med1a relations and promotions McQuillan, Australia, 6-t, 6-3 



Friday, August 31, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Gallego's single helps A's 


Switzer accusations continue
edge Royals 9-5; Sox win 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -Mike Gallego singled home the win­ning run with one out in the ninth inning Thursday and the Oakland Athletics, overcoming a rare blown save by Dennis Eckersley, beat the Kansas City Royals 6-5. 
Bo Jackson hit a solo home run, his 22nd, in the "eighth off Eckersley that tied it at 5. Eckersley (3-2) got the victory despite his second blown save in 41 chances. 
Willie Randolph singled for his fourth hit of the game with one out in the ninth against Steve Crawford (5-3). Randolph stole second and scored easily on Gallego's single. 
Harold Baines, acquired Wednesday in a trade with Texas, went 1-for-5 for the Athletics. Willie McGee, also obtained Wednesday in a deal with St. Louis, is not expected to join Oakland until Friday. 
Jim Eisenreich's two-run homer in the seventh off Dave Stewart pulled Kansas City within 5-4. Jackson homered into the second deck in left field, giving him six home runs and 15 RBis in five games. 
Jackson also saved a run in the bottom of the seventh with a brilliant play when he threw out Terry Steinbach trying to score from third on a single by Randolph. Jackson bluffed Steinbach into thinking he would catch Randolph's line drive, then threw a strike to catcher Bob Boone. 
Steve Crawford, the Royals' third pitcher, got out of an eighth-inning jam by striking out Jose Canseco with runners 
-Ih--. e 0bse~~---&.-=Y=-...._-_
--=LA­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Business Editor 

To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 3 p.m. Friday, August 31 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
~:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:.~ ~ 


R===========================::::=====~==T=============9f 
©ti\~[F)lW® LID ~ ti\ © [fD [¥)ti\rruuw &1 LID Qti\lY[fD f1@00 

SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 1 ST. JOSEPH BEACH 

,fJi!!.'-\~ri;cJ•!AJ)'J~! ---­STARTS AT 11:00 AT THE BEACH HALF MILE SWIM & 2 MILE RUN REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA VARSITY-TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL NON-VARSITY -TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL 
(MEN'S, WOMEN'S &MIXED IN BOTH DIVISIONS) 
McGaffigan's first pitch of the game over the left-field fence for his 23rd homer of the sea­son and McGwire drove in an unearned run with a two-out single. 
White Sox 4, Twins 3 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Ron Karkovice hit an inside-the­park grand slam in the fourth inning to lead the White Sox past the Minnesota Twins 4-3 Thursday and end Chicago's five-game losing streak. 
Bobby Thigpen earned his major league-leading 44th save in relief of Jack McDowell (11­6), winner of five of his last six starts. McDowell gave up five hits and three runs in eight in­nings before giving way to Thigpen at the start of the ninth. Thigpen is two short of Dave Righetti's season record. 
Chicago loaded the bases against David West (7-9) with one out in the fourth on Phil Bradley's single, Ivan Calderon's double and Frank Thomas' walk. 
Karkovice lined a 1-2 pitch just over the glove of leaping Twins shortstop Greg Gagne. The ball rolled to the fence be­tween left fielder Dan Gladden and center fielder John Moses. 

Red Sox 9, Indians 2 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Roger Clemens became a 20-game winner for the third time Thursday night as the Boston Red Sox scored seven runs in the ninth inning and beat the Cleveland Indians 9-2 for their seventh straight victory. 
Clemens (20-5) won his eighth consecutive start and kept his 

Observer Staff Report 
Former Oklahoma coach Barry Switzer Thursday claimed that Notre Dame representatives arranged a job for Tony Brooks after he signed to play football for the Irish, an "improper in­ducement" that violates NCAA recruiting rules. 
Switzer, who accused Notre Dame of offering Brooks illegal inducements in his recent book "Bootlegger's Boy," said the unidentified representatives gave Brooks a job paying $13.50 an hour immediately after he signed a letter of in­tent with the Irish in 1987. 
"It was obviously an in­ducement," Switzer told the .Chicago Tribune in Thursday's editions. "Schools can talk about summer jobs (after a player's freshman year) but nobody at Oklahoma was making that kind of money. They violated NCAA legisla­tion." 
Several scandals, including NCAA rules violations within his program, forced Switzer to resign before the 1989 season. Switzer argues against many of the scandals in his book. 
Brooks, who was recruited 
earned run average at 1.95, best in the majors. He struck out nine, raising his major league-leading total to 198, and walked none. 
Clemens gave up nine hits in his seventh complete game and improved to 14-2 lifetime against Cleveland. 
The Red Sox, whose seven straight wins have all come on the road, increased their lead in the American League East to 6 1/2 games over idle Toronto. 
Clemens' winning streak is his longest since he won 14 straight to start the 1986 sea­son. He won 24 games in 1986 and 20 in 1987, and became the fourth Boston pitcher to win 20 in at least three seasons. 


Mets 12, Giants 2 
NEW YORK (AP) -Sid Fernandez struck out a season-high 12 and Darryl Strawberry put the game away with a grand slam in the eighth inning, leading the New York Mets past 
the San Francisco Giants 12-2 
Thursday night. 
£l ::;: .!-\i(; .H p J-\ iT1'Y 
STARTS AT NOON 
CANOES FOR RENT 

SAILING AND ROWING CLUB DEMONSTRATIONS 
BEACH GAMES AND SWIMMING 
HOT DOGS & SODA 

by Oklahoma, said he chose Notre Dame for academic reasons. "Nobody connected with Notre Dame made any illegal offers to me," he said. "It's absurd. He was upset because I didn't go to Oklahoma. It is a great pro­gram and all my friends went there, but I was looking for more than it had to offer at the time. "There was no one connected with Notre Dame who made any illegal offers to me dur­ing the time I was recruited," Brooks said. "When I made my choice to attend Notre Dame, I told the other schools I was interested in more than football. All Notre Dame has ever offered me is character." 
Switzer said he believes Holtz and his coaching staff knew nothing about the ar­rangement. Under NCAA rules, though, a school can be held responsible for the actions of alumni and boost­ers. 
"If the allegations were true, it would come as a shock," Holtz said. "Otherwise, I have nothing to say." 
Notre Dame recruiting co­ordinator Vinnie Cerrato told the Associated Press that the recruiting was done 
Howard Johnson hit a three­run homer and Gregg Jefferies added a two-run shot as the Mets trimmed idle Pittsburgh's lead in the National League East to 1 1/2 games. The vic­tory also improved the Mets' record at Shea Stadium to 43­22, the best home mark in the major leagues. 
It was Strawberry's fourth career grand slam and the fifth grand slam by the Mets this season. Strawberry, who drove in five runs, has 29 homers and 85 RBis. 
Fernandez, 8-3 at Shea Stadium this season, had a two-hit shutout entering the eighth, but the Giants broke it 

Reds 6, Cubs 5 
CHICAGO (AP) -Cincinnati's chances of holding onto the lead in the National League West got a boost Thursday night when Danny Jackson re­turned from the disabled list 
and pitched the Reds over 
Chicago. 

honestly and said, "I learned a long time ago, one guy's not worth your job, your reputation, everything." 
Switzer first raised the Brooks allegation in the book, but did not mention the paying job. 
"It didn't take long to fig­ure out we had no chance for Tony Brooks," he wrote. "He began asking us whether we could make the same promises to him that he said had been made him by repre­sentatives of Notre Dame in­terests. 
"We couldn't 'match the offer' because we felt that what had apparently been promised to Tony would constitute improper induce­ments under NCAA recruit­ing guidelines." 
"The kid had his hand out," Switzer said in the newspaper interview. "He was asking for certain things. He said he needed to work right away." 
Former Oklahoma presi­dent Frank Horton and ath­letic director Donnie Duncan knew of the situation, but didn't contact the NCAA for fear of alienating a major Tulsa contributor who was a Notre Dame graduate, Switzer said. 
Jackson (5-2) was sidelined because of a partially torn ro­tator cuff. He gave up four runs and eight hits over five in­nings in his first start since July 12. The left-bander also tripled home a run. 
The first-place Reds main­tained a 5 112-game lead over Los Angeles and moved 8 1/2 ahead of San Francisco. 
Rob Dibble pitched 2 2-3 in­nings and Randy Myers finished for his 27th save in 31 appear­ances. Myers gave up Ryne Sandberg's 31st homer of sea­son, tops in the NL. 
Trailing 1-0, the Reds chased Mike Bielecki (6-9) with six runs in the fifth inning, includ­ing three triples and two wild pitches. 
Cardinals 5, Braves 3 

ATLANTA (AP)-Pinch-hitter Terry Pendleton snapped a 12th-inning tie with a sacrifice fly and Dave Collins added a 
run-scoring single to lift St. 
Louis past Atlanta. Pendleton's fly ball to left off 
reliever Dwayne Henry (2-2) scored Todd Zeile, who opened the inning with a single and moved to second on Craig Wilson's single. After Rex Hudler popped out an at­tempted bunt, pinch-hitter Denny Walling walked to load the bases. 
Reliever Frank DiPino (5-2) pitched one inning for the vic­tory and Tom Niedenfuer worked the 12th for his second save. Cardinals reliever Lee Smith pitched to one batter in the 10th and was forced to leave the game with stiffness in the right forearm. 

DRIVE STRAIGH't 


INDIANA. 
... 


page 16 The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 




Dickerson begins suspension 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Eric 
Dickerson, the welcome mat 
yanked from under his million­
dollar legs, began a month's 
suspension Thursday while the 
Indianapolis Colts prepared to 
play the entire NFL season, if 
necessary, without him. 

Dickerson failed to show up for a scheduled physical a day earlier, the fifth time he had snubbed the Colts' efforts to re­examine his injured hamstring, and General Manager Jim Irsay .suspended him for conduct 
detrimental to the team. 
He also put Dickerson on the 
non-football-related injury list, 
because it occurred during the 
off-season, and fined him one 
week's pay. The non-football 
injury status means Dickerson 
will miss at least six games, 
also without pay, and the total 
financial penalty will be a min­
imum of almost $600,000 from 
his $1.45 million salary. 
It could be even more if he 
still refuses to take a physical 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
The coaching staff Berticelli has brought to Notre Dame is no less impressive. Assistant men's coach and head coach of the Irish women's soccer team is Chris Petrucelli, who coached under Berticelli for six seasons at UNC-Greensboro, and cap­tained the second of UNC­Greensboro's two national championship teams. 
John Stollmeyer, a three-time All-American at Indiana University and a member of the 
U.S. team that played in the World Cup this past summer, also joins the Irish coaching staff as an assistant. The goalkeeper coach will be famil­iar to Notre Dame soccer fans, as former Irish standout Danny Lyons leaves the field to take a position on the sidelines. 
Berticelli's task will be aided by a wealth of talent returning from last year's 10-7-3 team. Only two players who had either a goal or an assist last year are not returning, and neither of those two were among the top five scorers on the team. 
The chemistry of this team could be excellent, with a solid blend of experience and youth. Senior co-captain Danny Stebbins leads the attack, where he will be joined by sophomore Kevin Pendergast, who is seeking to expand on an outstanding freshman year in which he was the leading scorer for the Irish with 12 goals and 29 total points. The third starting spot is still up for grabs, with five players com­peting for the job. 
The top three scorers after Pendergast return to anchor the midfield for the Irish. Seniors Steve LaVigne and Mitch Kern both had off-season surgery, but will be ready to play when the season starts. Senior Tom Connaghan will be the third piece of a solid mid­field. 
Senior co-captain Paul LaVigne is the key for the de­fense, where he will be sup­ported by Bret Hofmann and Kenyon Meyer. Goalkeeper is a position that will raise some questions, where Peter Gulli will step in to replace Danny Lvons. Gulli has not been challenged with a big-game situation at Notre Dame, but the strong de­fense should take some of the heat off of him. 
Berticelli's immediate goal is to establish the team's state of mind. "We want to develop an attitude--being the best we can be. We don't want to accept less than 100% from our­selves," h-e said, wanting to set a foundation not only for this and the Colts keep him on the non-football injury list. 
"As I've said all along, we're prepared to play and to win ev­ery game we play with the peo­ple we have," Coach Ron Meyer said after Thursday's practice. 
The Colts quickly left to catch a flight to New Orleans for Friday night's exhibition game against the Saints. Rookie starting quarterback Jeff George said he and other play­ers weren't letting Dickerson's status bother them . 
"I don't think any of us were concerned with what Eric was going to do," George said. "That's all you've been hearing, but he has to do what he has to do. We're just going to go on." 
Meyer said he has not talked to Dickerson since the suspen­sion and has no idea why Dickerson came to Indianapolis from his home in California if he never intended to take the physical. 
Dickerson's agent, Leigh 
season, but for future seasons. 
But a tough schedule will challenge the Irish from the be­ginning. After tomorrow's opener at home (1 p.m. at Cartier Field), Notre Dame will face pre-season Top 20 teams in three of its next four games. 
The Irish will face perennial powers Duke and N.C. State in the Metropolitan Life Classic in Durham, N.C., then travel to Loyola for a Midwestern Collegiate Conference match. They will then be challenged at home by M.C.C. foe St. Louis, another Top 20 team. The Irisp will be away for their other two meetings with Top 20 teams, going on the road to face 
is currently looking for interested people to fill the following position: 




Viewpoint Copy Editor 
All students are encouraged to apply. If interested, submit a 1-page personal statement and resume to Michelle Dall at The Observer 
Steinberg, said all questions about Dickerson should be di­rected to Daryl Henry, Dickerson's friend and adviser. Henry, who accompanied Dickerson to Indianapolis, also refused to talk to the news me­dia. 
Meyer said the apparent tur­moil created by the Dickerson situation, which began last sea­son with his criticism of the of­fensive line for not protecting him, was just that -only in appearance. 
"There really hasn't been any at all. It created a cloud of uncertainty as far as who is where. But we were going to ask Eric to do the same things we're asking Albert Bentley to do. That's catch the ball, run and block." 
Bentley was the Colts' top runner before Dickerson came in a trade with the Los Angeles Rams in October, 1987. Bentley still ranked second in the NFL in all-purpose yardage. 
Indiana and Evansville later in the season. 
Coach Berticelli outlined his short-term goals. "It's a formidable schedule," he said. "We have to be ready for every game, and we have to get better with each game," he said. The Irish may not win the na­tional championship this year, but look for the team to im­prove on last year's 10-7-3 record, and impress the soccer world by playing tough against their Top 20 foes. If Notre Dame can do this, they will be on their way to the top of the soccer world. And, as Coach Berticelli said, "Success breeds success." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Anyone interested in trying out for the wrestling team should meet at Coach Fran McCann's office today at 
3:30 p.m. on the second floor of the JACC, near the pool. 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to any­one in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The en­try fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 
p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
Anyone interested in playing off-campus soccer, call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
Notre Dame Varsity Hockey -There will be a mandatory meeting for all those trying out for the team at 
4:30 p.m. today at the Football Auditorium in the JACC. 
Varsity softball tryouts will be Monday, Sept. 3 at 4 
p.m. in Loftus. Freshmen and first year players should come dressed for practice. • 
Notre Dame rugby meeting for anyone interested in playing for the N.D. rugby club should meet in the Haggar Hall auditorium on Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 5 p.m. No experi­ence or pads necessary. Call Deuce at x3502. 
Anyone interested in joining the women's crew team contact Meg at x2769. 
The Sailing Club will have a meeting on Tues.. Sept. 4th at the boathouse during afternoon practice. Plans for the regatta on Sept. 8th-9th will be discussed. 
Tickets for the 1990 Irish football season go on sale next week for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Senior tickets go on sale Monday, Sept. 3 at 9 a.m. Juniors can get their tickets Tuesday; Law and graduate students can buy tickets Wednesday; sophomores on Thursday and freshmen on Friday. Issue hours are 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Students can purchase tickets for the 6 homes games for $69. Ticket applications will be mailed to students this week. Those students not receiving applications can get a duplicate made at the ticket office with proof of year in school. 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 





Production 
Manager 
To apply, please submit a resume and a two-page personal statement to Alison Cocks by Friday, August 31 
Friday, August 31, 1990 
The Observer 

Marinovich ready for Classic 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. (AP) -Take away most of the images a nickname like "Hobo QB" can conjure, and there is a chance one might find Todd Marinovich. 
There are no wires or steel to this laid-back Southern Cal sophomore. 
No, his trademarks are longish red hair, beach shorts, T -shirts, a paint bru.sh and of course a left arm and knowl­edge of football that might make him the prototype quar­terback of the 1990s. 
"That's me, no fronts," Marinovich said Thursday as ninth-ranked Southern Cal pre­pared to meet Syracuse in the Kickoff Classic at Giants Stadium on Friday night. "I just try to relax and have fun." 
There have been few days when Marinovich has not had fun on the field. He burst onto the college scene last season as 



Todd Marinovich 
a redshirt freshman, complet­ing 219 of 352 passes for 2,578 yards and 16 touchdowns in helping the Trojans to a 9-2-1 record and a Rose Bowl win over Michigan. 
Marinovich, 21, said there is no pressure to match those numbers, which made him the sixth-leading passer in 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors/Copy Editors 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 3 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 

is currently accepting applications for the paid positions of 
Production Staff 

Stop by at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune or call 239-5309 to leave your name and telephone number. 

-N~ 


CAMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF) 
16" SOFTBALL CO-REC SOFTBALL 
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY 

TOUCH FOOTBALL TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES 

Southern Cal history. 
''I'd like to see nothing in the loss column this year," he said. "Losing two games hurt. I think if I had made a big play in each of those games we could have done it." 
Marinovich is looking to avoid that kind of pain this season. He has spent hours working out and watching tapes of the losses to Illinois and Notre Dame, looking for things he could have done bet­ter. As always, he is using some of the latest scientific aids to improve his game. 
Using an Accu-vision 1000 machine, Marinovich tested his peripheral vision by watching alternating blinking lights on a 5-by-7 foot board that con­tained about 120 lights. 
Marinovich added a catch to the test. He took it jumping up and down on a trampoline 
while being poked and prodded from different sides. 
"It's the same as a game, ev­erybody is trying to get a piece of the quarterback," Marinovich said. "You have to stay focused." ' 
The stick-figure throwing study done by Biokinetics Inc. of Irvine, Calif. discovered that Marinovich was not using his whole body throwing deep. 
"The arm was just not in the 
proper position," he said. "It was three degrees to low. When I corrected it you could see the change.' 
Marinovich has had a natural advantage in his training. His father, Marv, is a conditioning expert who owns an athletic re­search center. As a result, Marinovich had dozens of ex­perts work on athletic devel­ooment. 
The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey 

Todd Lyght is the only returning starter in the Irish secondary. 



Irish 
continued from page 20 
we're all hungry and all ready to play. We're all good athletes, we're all willing to put in the 

NON-VARSITYATHLETICS 

NOTREDAMEUNDERGRADUATESTUDENTSONLY 
FOOTBALL FOR MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES FRESHMAN SWIM MEET 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 5 
time and the effort and I think we'll have a good season if we work hard and stay healthy." 
A healthy secondary might make up for the speed lost with the graduation of safeties Terrell and D'Juan Francisco, who both ran the 50 in 4.4 sec­onds, to Poorman and Davis, who run 4.6's. 
"We've just got to try not to put the kids in bad situations," said secondary coach Chuck Heater. "We have to be a little smarter in the matchups and not put our guys in situations where they're going to be at a disadvantage. 
"(The secondary) is the easy place to direct (criticism) be­cause there's a lack of experi­ence, but that's obviously the area where you might direct your attention. The question is, 'Do you have the players who can do the job?' And it's just a matter of getting them out there and playing. I think once we get everybody healthy we'll be fine." 

/ 

Pol~-~fl?:l~l:< L,-auren 
· ·-Factory Stbre 


RETAIL HELP 

The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking qualified individuals to fill the following positions for its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER 
FI'/PT SALES ASSOCIATES 
Experience with bettermen's and women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with experience. Please apply in person at: 
olo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store Lighthouse Place 101 Wabash Street Michigan City, IN 
--~ 

The Observer Friday, August 31, 1990 



soccer team begins season of change 

page 18 

Women's 
By DAVID DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team kicks off its 1990 season this Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium as it plays host to the Lady Bulldogs of Northeast Missouri State. 
This season will feature many changes for the Irish, who will compete under the guidance of new Head Coach Chris Petrucelli, a 1984 graduate of UNC-Greensboro. Although Petrucelli is new to the University of Notre Dame, he has served as an assistant men's soccer coach at Old Dominion University in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Petrucelli brings with him not only expe­rience, but good measures of 
Molly Lennon, a dependable veteran who has started every game during Notre Dame's varsity tenure, is one of only two juniors on the Irish roster. Molly also shares the optimism of the team's new coach. 
"This is a new season, a new team, and a new coach with new techniques and principles. People should enjoy our new style. We're enthusiastic and learning a lot. We're not just trying to compete, but to have a winning season; not just trying to survive on the field, but to prove ourselves in our region." 
As fate would have it, Petrucelli and company have al­ready begun their journey on the road to becoming a re­gional (and some day national) soccer power by tying the University of Wisconsin 1-1 in 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team begins its first season under new coach Chris Petrucelli Sunday at 1 
p.m. against Northeast Missouri at Krause Stadium. 
enthusiasm and-diligence as an exhibition match at year, we're taking everything to well. Wisconsin. a higher level. Our new girls 
"The program here has the Such an early rise to promi­will adjust to college-level soc­potential to keep improving nence is not an accident, but cer. The freshmen and sopho­with time," noted coach the result of many hours of mores are ready to play." Petrucelli. "No team will have grueling practice. The freshmen and sopho­an easy game against us. These "One of the reasons this team mores will be able to look for kids are great; they work hard is so optimistic is that we've leadership not only from every day, have a great attitude, had such a strong preseason," Lennon, but also from senior and are enjoyable to work noted Molly Lennon. "We came co-captains Bernie Holland and with." back to school two weeks early, Mimi Suba, as well as junior of­
In their first two varsity sea­and it has definitely paid off. I fensive phenomenon Susie sons, the Irish have compiled think that this will be visible in Zilvitis. Holland, a midfielder impressive records of 13-6-1 our games; we're more intense and forward with great and 12-10. This season, players and more dedicated." speed,has scored 18 points and coach alike are looking to However, such testimony may (seven goals and four assists), improve even further. not sway the average skeptic. while scoring game-winning 
"A GREAT. 
EXHILARATING 
MOVIE!" 
-Pauline Kael, THE NEW YORKER 

"EXTRAORDINARY! 
DANIEL DAY· LEWIS GIVES ATOWERING PERFORMANCE­FIERCE, Wlm, AND MOVING!" 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
•'AMAZING! 
AVAULTING ACHIEVEMENT 
THAT GIVES YOU 
ENORMOUS PLEASURE!" 
-Gene Shalit, TODAY 
Astory about IHe, laughter, and the occasional miracle. 

TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
• It bringsout the best in all of~­United Way 
.
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MtiHAWAKA

PRIME RIB 
,........l'dMJ....,..................
SEAFOOD 
21g...zst-9925
" ' 






l:tiiO
•·o11

B•I•K•E S•H•O•P 
specialists in pro bikes is welcoming students back to school by taking 10% o11 a full selection of 1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
Mon-Frt 10 am-7 pm Sat 9am-5pm 
on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison) 
272-0129 
Aren't the Irish going to field a team of two seniors, two ju­niors, six sophomores and 14 freshmen? Skeptics beware as Notre Dame does not plan to back down. 
"This is a very young team, and the schedule will throw us into the fire. These kids will quickly experience big-time Division I soccer," explained coach Petrucelli. "Our first three games are against teams ranked in the Top 20 in their divisions-N. E. Missouri, Duke, and UNC-Greensboro­which poses a real challenge for us. After three games, we'll know who we are; they'll be a 
real measuring stick." 
"Our first year, we had our best record," added Molly Lennon, "and last year we toughened our schedule. This goals against Western Michigan and St. Benedict in her two seasons at Notre Dame. 

Mimi Suba, meanwhile, has twice led the team in assists, scored 32 points (seven goals and 18 assists). Mimi also scored the first varsity goal for the Notre Dame women. 
Finally, Susie Zilvitis, the Notre Dame women's soccer all-time leading scorer, should provide considerable leadership on the front line. In her spPc­tacular career, Zilvitis has amassed 65 points (26 goals, 13 assists), including seven game-winning goals, five of which were scored in consecu­tive games during her sopho­more season. As a freshman, Zilvitis was named to the Indiana Soccer Coaches Association All-State Team. 
As if the Irish did not look good enough, the so-called newcomers, including Brenda Gorski and Breah Serwatka of Clay High School in South Bend, promise to help Notre Dame's rise to glory. 
Where Northeast Missouri State is concerned, the Irish are in for a tough season opener. The Lady Bulldogs are the 20th-ranked team in the NCAA Division II after their most suc­cessful season in team history (11-5-1, ranked 15th). 
The meeting will be the first ever between the Irish and the Lady Bulldogs, with the kickoff slated for 1:00 p.m. on Sunday afternoon at Krause Stadium. 


DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: 
$45

2.5 CUBIC FEET (starting at) 
for the school year ,
3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 

PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. 
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
----------~------. 

Friday, August 31, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD
CAMPUS ACROSS 36 Anchovy sauce 56 Oil used in 37 Eastern U.S. 
perfumeryFriday 1 Moves quickly 

ocean 57 Aware of 

3:30 p.m. Sign-up orientation for on-campus 5 Spydon's Hari 60 lnnisfail
38 Columnist

interviews. Contact Paula Cook, career counselor of 9 Appetizer 
61 Light too bright
Bombeck

Career and Placement Services. Hesburgh Library 13 Toward shelter for sight 
39-de Calais

Auditorium. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 14 Take the stump 62 "Weed 'em and 
40 Welfare for an
16 Red river 
unemployed

7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "My Left 17 Appeal (gardener's
funnyman?

Foot," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission 18 Author Shute motto?) 
44 Where Joan of 
63 Be a fan 

$2. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 19 Chuck of the 
Arc burned 
NF.L. 64 Lixivia 45 Charitable
20 Useful humor? 65 Tonsor's cry 
acronym

Saturday 23 St. Helens' 
46 Receive gladly 

7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "My Left product 

DOWN
25 Fr. holy woman 49 Queried, dialect 

Foot," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission 
style

$2. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 26 Unanimously 1 Use a ray gun 
27 Renata of opera 50 Long-tailed 2 Ind. neighbor fame simian 
3 Viewpoints? 29 Somewhat sour 51 Humorist's 
4Burn 31 Humorist on the investment? 
5 New Brunswick 


MENUS 
phone? 55 Voir-(juror city 33 Moslem cap exam) 6 High crest 
Notre Dame 7 Kipling's "Rickki-tikki-ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE " 
Make Your Own Taco Bar 
aAxiom ender 
Quiche Lorraine 


9Annie's

Vegetables Marinara 
turbaned friend 28 Nursery 40 Nineteenth 48 Knickknack

Pierson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich 

10 "-ofOne's schooler's Hebrew letter 49 Stick out like Own": Woolf need, for short 41 Picnic or junket -thumb 11 -blue streak 42Wrangles 52 Dudley
29"... -the 

Saint Mary's 
(chatter) living Present!": wrongfully Do-Right's girl 12 Actress Barkin Longfellow 43 Within: Comb. 53"Duncan-," form Burns poem 
30 Math. student's 

Mexican Meat Loaf 44 College official 54 Iowa product 
device

Linguine w/ Clam Sauce 46 --buckthorn 58 A 4/15 worry 32 Plucky 47 City on the Ohio 59 Choose
Southern Style Stuffed Pepper 
33 Magician's joint? 

Answers to any three clues in this34 Eastern bigwig 
24 How some puzzle are available by touch-tone wags get 35 Part of Tel Aviv phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each started? 38 Actor Wallach minute). 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE JAY HOSLER 
5·9 


,. 






page 20 
Men's soccer opens season for new coach 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
A new era for men's soccer 
begins with the start of the 
new season at Notre Dame. 
Tomorrow will mark the 
first game the Fighting Irish 
play under the tutelage of 
new Head Coach Mike 
Berticelli, who is known for 
building programs into na­
tional contenders. His mis­
sion here is no less. 
"The challenge is to build a national championship con­tender," Berticelli said. 
Berticelli's resume is noth­ing short of spectacular. At North Carolina-Greensboro he inherited a team that had struggled to losing records in seven of the previous nine seasons. Two seasons later UNC-Greensboro won the first of their two back-to­hack Division III national championships. 
Old Dominion provided a similar challenge for Berticelli. After taking over a program that had lost eight starters and had tallied only one winning season in the prior three, ODU turned around to go 12-9-1. The following year the Monarchs went 16-1-3, and snapped Virginia's 44­game home winning streak. 
Before heading to UNC­Greensboro, Berticelli led Thomas College (Maine) to a 44-18-2 record in four years. In his 14 seasons as a head coach, Berticelli has achieved a remarkable winning percentage of .755, and has earned various coach of the year awards in nine seasons. 
The coaching staff Berticelli has brought to 
see SOCCER I page 16 





Sports 
Friday, August 31, 1990 

Secondary tries to overcome injuries 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO group on the field where it's Assistant Sports Editor more important that they get the feel for one another than Playing behind a defensive the secondary," said Darnell. front seven that looks like an "They have to work off of one All-America oil well, the Notre another and they've never been Dame secondary will have a dif­out there, and I think that's the ficult time outshining its front­concern right now. I can't tell line counterparts. you right now how close we are 
Zeus, Apollo, Atlas and to solving that problem." Hercules would be hard­Aside from Lyght, an All­pressed to keep up with the America choice who has started likes of linemen George at cornerback for the last two Williams, Chris Zorich and Bob years, the remaining players on Dahl, and linebackers Scott the secondary have started a Kowalkowski, Andre Jones, combined three games. This Mike Stonebreaker and Donn makes every preseason practice Grimm. vital for the players to get used 
So when the Notre Dame sec­to each other's moves. ondary surfaced this summer "The only thing that's lacking with nagging injuries to almost is game experience," said all of its starters, the defensive Lyght, who said that all the coaches could only clench their stiffness and soreness is gone teeth and hope those pesky in­from his hamstring injury and firmities would vanish with that he'll be ready by the time time. the season starts. "We have a 
"I think every guy back there lot of guys who want to play (in the secondary) has missed and show their talents. They at least a day or two," said can do it, and all they need to Defensive Coordinator Gary do is get the experience." Darnell. "I think anybody would "They" in this case means be less than truthful if they told players like Rod Smith, who is you that we're not really con­the probable starter at short­cerned about that. It's neces­side cornerback; junior George sary to get in a lot of work Poorman, who backed up Pat back there, and our people Terrell at free safety last year; haven't been available." senior Greg Davis, the likely 
The nags are hounding the candidate for the starting posi­defensive backs. tion at strong safety; and 

Cornerback Todd Lyght has sophomore Reggie Brooks, who been unavailable for the entire will get a lot of time behind week because of a sore right Smith. hamstring; cornerback Rod Forming a mini-optimist club Smith has been dehydrated and on the turf behind the front has had a knee injury, and has seven, all the projected starters come back just this week; feel that they'll be ready when cornerback Reggie Brooks has the time comes. had a sore achilles tendon, and "When we get out there, his first day back was there's a feeling of good chem­work with Greg Davis and the rust off, but I think we'll be 
O.K." .

Wednesday. istry between us," said Reggie George Poorman on the second Add to this lack of practice Brooks. "We're all pretty close, team all of last year, and all the And Poorman, the fellow spring and before that," said who'll be calling the defenses,
continuity the fact that the sec­you know, because when you 

ondary has limited game expe­get by the DB's that's six Smith. "So I'm comfortable likes the drive behind this un­
rience, and you have a legiti­points. So we have to stay stepping right in and playing proven secondary. with those two. ''I'm not concerned right now
mate concern on a defense that close." 
(with the continuity). I thinkcould be one of Notre Dame's '\aid Smi.th: "One thing that's 

best in years. been a tremendous advantage "However, it's been a little "I don't think there's any is that I had the opportunity to difficult being out, trying to get see IRISH I page 17 

1990 IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
NOVEMBER 5 ·ATHLETES IN ACTION NOVEMBER 15 • fORDIIAM NOVEMBER 28 • INDIANA DECEMBER 1 • at KENTUCKY DECEMBER 3 • at BUTLER DECEMBER 8 • at UCLA DECEMBER 12 • USC DECEMBER 22 • PORTLAND JANUARY 2 ·VALPARAISO JANUARY 5 • at NORTH CAROLINA JANUARY 6 • at USSR (Springfield. MA) JANUARY 10 • at \\.'ICHITA STATE JANUARY 12 ·at 1\tiA;\11 JANUARY 15 • WEST \'IRGI:\IA JANUARY 17 • MARQCETTE JANUARY 22 • RLTGERS JANUARY 26 • \'IRGI:\IA 

.. -JANUARY 29 • at DAYTO:\ JANUARY 31 • BOSH)'\ COU.E(,L FEBRL'ARY 2 • DLKf. FEBRUARY 6 · La<,ALU. FEBRlJARY 9 • SYRAct.:<,F-. FEBRL"ARY 12 • at '\1AHQl 1.·r·r L fEBRLAHY 16 ·at ·r f.\1PI.f. FEBRl;ARY 18 • (.HfJ(,IJH)'\ FEBRLARY 20 • IH .PAl I. FEBRUARY 2:~ ·at <,·r ..lOll'\ ':! FEBRLARY 26 · ll-\'d 0'\ 
;\lARCH 2 • at IOl 1<,.\'ll.l.f. . . __ ,.:s;··•. '\lARCH l ·at \11':1':1()1 HI :-·----:::;;. ··7~'?><­

Hoops season begins in one month 
By GREG GUFFEY the nation, will visit the Joyce Hershey. That game will be in Sports Editor ACC on Nov. 5. Following the the 9,000-seat Hershey Arena 
NIT, Notre Dame will host on Saturday, Feb. 16, and will 
Digger Phelps will have ex­Indiana before facing Kentucky be telecast by NBC. actly one month to get his in the annual Big Four Classic The Irish return seven players Notre Dame basketball team and then traveling to Butler and have four freshmen. ready for the pre-season and UCLA. Returning are seniors Tim National Invitational A semester break trip to the Singleton (4.2 points per game, 
Tournament, and the Irish will east coast will include a game 1.4 rebounds) and Kevin Ellery meet 12 teams which partici­with North Carolina in the (4.4 ppg, 2.3 rpg). juniors pated in last spring's NCAA Meadowlands and an exhibition LaPhonso Ellis (14.0 ppg, 12.6 Tournament according to the contest with USSR the following rpg), Daimon Sweet (6.6 ppg, 1990-91 schedule released night in Springfield, Mass. 2.1 rpg}, Elmer Bennett (10.9 Thursday. Other road games include trios ppg, 1.6 rpg) and Keith Tower The Irish will open practice to Dayton, Marquette, Miami, (2.1 ppg, 2.7 rpg) and sopho­Oct. 15 and then host Fordham Wichita State, St. John's in more Monty Williams (7. 7 ppg, 
in the first round of the NIT on Madison Square Garden, 3.7 rpg). Nov. 15, and the winner of that Temple in Hershey, Penn., "We've got seven starters and game will meet the winner. of Louisville, Missouri and De four subs," Phelps said. "Those the Temple-Iowa contest on Paul. seven players saw what they Nov. 17. The semifinals and fi­The Irish will play 17 regular­could do against Syracuse ( a 
nals will be Nov. 21 and 23 in season games in the Joyce ACC, last-second win) and Missouri New York City. compared to 13 last season. (a 103-79 rout). That's the 
Despite the short preparation Highlights of that home sched­chemistry we have to find." time, Phelps is eager to play in ule include games with Indiana, New to the program are the pre-season NIT. West Virginia, Marquette, twins Jon and Joe Ross, Carl 
"I think we will gain valuable Rutgers, Virginia, Boston Cozen and Brooks Boyer. experience playing in the pre­College, Duke, LaSalle, Phelps wants to make their season NIT," he said. "We need Syracuse, De Paul and Dayton. transition as smooth as possi­tournament experience because "The thing we emphasized to ble. we don't play in a conference or the players was that pre-season "There's no pressure on a conference tournament." conditioning is very important," them," Phelps said. "The pres­
After finishing 16-12 against Phelps said. "We have to be sure is on the starting seven. a tough schedule last season ready to play Oct. 15 and we That's the way it has to be." that ended with a loss to have to get the system down Virginia in the NCAA between Oct. 15 and Nov. 15." After having past seasons Tournament, things will not get The schedule was just re­with such slogans as "The any easier for the Irish in 1990-leased because of the difficulty Battle to Seattle" and
;\1.-\RUI 9 ·at DLP·\l I. . · /: il ")··., 

91. They again play a national in planning the Temple game. "Remember It's Denver"," schedule that includes 13 road The game was originally set for Phelps has opted for a different 
. / / I ­



:==============\ // ) ­
1 

games and one exhibition. the Meadowlands, then at the theme this season. He says the
mdil .th·.. f>••41'~'' \l"l Jut1TflctOw11f / 1/ / \[) f onlh.un ~\HHU·r ··~•i' f.u ,. I ;.·!!oi; / / Athletes in Action, which Philadelphia Spectrum then at ,theme will be a simple "Stay 
plays many of the top teams in Notre Dame and finally in Focused." 
The Observer/·Michael F. Muldoon 





