
/)u /-f 
·o 
..... 
Zl 
COLL£crroNs
._;Ji"/ 
I -
l lf:RAFi·y 
)'1I,·.). -? -· 
NCITR£ DAM£ IN 46Rc:~
-'-''-· 
VOL. XXIII NO. 1 0 
FRIUA Y , u._, . _ ......cr'( 7, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Foreign captives warned not to try escaping Iraq 
(AP) -Iraq tightened the pute over land, money and oil. 
screws en trapped Westerners "We will not stand by while
• Bush on Iraqi TV/ page 4 
on Thursday. warning that one country devours another 
anyone trying to leave without unthreatening country whole,"permission could face life in up its small gulf contingent. Bush said at a Kansas fund­
prison. The Soviet Union raised At the United Nations, diplo­raiser. "Our cause may not be the possibility of Kremlin sup­mats said U.N. Secretary­easy, but it will always be port for sending a U.N. military General Javier Perez de Cuellar right."
force to the Persian Gulf. planned to send an envoy to oc­In a surprise move, Bush said Saudi Arabia committed sev­cupied Kuwait to meet with he would make a statement for 
eral billion dollars toward de­diplomats whose embassies are broadcast to the Iraqi people,fraying the enormous cost of surrounded by Iraqi troops, saying he saw "a real opportu­the U.S. forces protecting the and with trapped foreigners. nity" to explain the U.S. view. kingdom's oil fields from pos­Baghdad would have to give its Baghdad had offered to broad­
sible Iraqi aggression, U.S. and consent for the visit. cast an interview with Bush,Saudi officials announced. The State Department again but the White House said the 
U.S. officials said the Saudis blasted Iraq for its treatment president would tape a state­would, at a minimum, pick up of foreign nationals. including ment instead. 
all fuel, water and transporta­the shooting of an American in Statements by the Iraqi pres­
tion costs for the 60,000 Kuwait who was trying to avoid ident -which White House American troops now in Saudi capture. Department wags call "Saddamathons" ­Arabia. Earlier this week, spokesman Mark Dillen called have received ample air time in 
Baker told Congress the U.S. Iraq's behavior "outrageous." the United States, and the Bush presence would cost about $6 Washington and Moscow, administration was reportedlybillion by year's end. meanwhile, scrambled to pre­irritated about this. 
Both U.S. and Saudi officials pare for the weekend super­Word that Moscow might The Observer!David Short declined to provide a specific 
power summit they hope will support a U.N. military force in Student Body President Rob Pasin is shown here during his first price tag for the commitment. bring a break in the nearly 5-the gulf came from Soviet student body address yesterday. Pasin mentioned projects he and British Prime Minister week-old crisis. Foreign Ministry spokesman vice-president Fred Tombar worked on over the summer including the 
Margaret Thatcher pledged President Bush said the 
Gennady Gerasimov. He indi­attempt to obtain a 24 hour center in Lafortune Student Center. 
more forces to bolster the U.S. United States was determined cated Mikhail Gorbachev maycontingent in the gulf. She did to force Iraqi President discuss the idea with Bush at not elaborate on the deploy­Saddam Hussein to withdraw their summit Sunday in ment plans. from Kuwait, which Iraqi 
Stud Gov't opens
Egypt. too, said it was beefing troops overran Aug. 2 in a dis-see GULF I page 6 

year with address 
By BETSY PUNSALAN ing to Tombar, who has been News Writer receiving about 20 calls a day. 
The creation of a 24-hour Pasin noted the need for a 
space in the basement of complaint procedure that LaFortune is expected to mate­would bring individual student 
rialize soon, according to Stu­complaints directly to Student dent Body President Rob Pasin Government. The new proce­and Vice President Fred 
dure would allow students to 

Tombar in their first Student file complaints in the dorms,Body Address last night. which would then be brought by "We worked on it this sum­the dorm president to the Stu­
mer for a while," said Tombar dent Government Legal De­of the 24-hour space. "We hope partment for review. this will become a reality sometime this semester, but at As promised in their cam­least by next semester." paign last year, Tombar said 
'---~ .> 

$~<>,... ,;· .-'!:' Student Government also emergency phones and added 
,w ,~":i,..w 

worked this summer on the de­lighting in the parking lots are 
velopment of a lecture series, in the process of being in­according to Pasin, who was stalled. "[The University's] aided by Dr. William Sexton, working on it and it will happen vice president of University Re­as soon as possible. It's just a lations. Fifty invitations were matter of University bureau­sent to various speakers and, cracy." thus far, Student Government has confirmed engagements In other related security mat­with such notable figures as ters, Pasin said Student Gov­
.. ........ CBS White House Correspon­ernment is considering extend­
"· 
dent Leslie Stahl, former Ari­ing SafeWalk to other areas ,_ -.... zona governor Bruce Babbitt around campus, as well as ex­and HUD Secretary Jack Kemp. tending the Weekend Wheels 
-~ 
~_ ..;:· .. 
Pasin and Tombar want to shuttle service to off-campus improve communication be­locations. tween the student body and Student Government . Student In response to a question re­Government newsletters will be garding Notre Dame's gay and distributed in the dorms in the lesbian community, Pasin re­hopes of creating a government sponded, "Notre Dame is a "more receptive to the needs Christian community and ideally and concerns of the student should be loving and accepting body," according to Tombar. of all its members. (Fred and I) Pasin is also currently working would support recognition of on an Observer column in an the (Gay and Lesbian) Club." effort to maintain close ties with the student body, and he Last night's address was the hopes to utilize other forms of first of three anticipated for campus media for this purpose the 1990-1991 school year. as well. Pasin said he hopes the open 
M-G ~~ Student Government has insti­forum format will encourage
anan _eorg~. 2 . waves as she is ~eld by_ her mother, Nithal George and watched by sister Rheem, 11, tuted a suggestion line, nick­so that
student participation

upon the1r arnval at Newark lnterna_t1onal Atrp~rt in Newark, N.J. Wednesday. The family was among 24 
named "the FRED-line," as a Student Government ran be
Amencans who were held hostage 1n the Pers1an Gulf and arrived on a Virgin Atlantic Airway flight from 
way to improve communication held"more accountable to stu­
Jordan. ­
with the student body. accord-dents." 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Shedding light on the topic of parking 
Question: What gives off the most light in the D2 park­ing lot? 
Answer: A full moon. Until the adminis­tration decides to put 

in some more lights in Robyn Simmons D2, it looks like the man on the moon will Asst. Accent Editor be the only person watching over the students who have to walk through the poorly lit parking lot at night. 
For those people who might not be famil­iar with this particular parking lot, D2 has lights set up around the perimeter of the lot, but there isn't any sufficient lighting in the center of the lot--where all of the cars are parked. 
The parking lot is so dark that it is diffi­cult for students to even find their car, and spending 15 minutes wandering around a dark parking lot is equivalent to someone wearing a big sign on their chest saying, "Rob Me." 
As a result, anybody who needs to use their car at night would be risking their safety by walking there alone, and even if they did have one or two friends accompa­nying them, there are still plenty of hiding places for a band of attackers to lie in wait for unsuspecting students. 
The solution is simple: get more lights in D2. The more lights there are, the less hid­ing places there are for thieves and as­sailants, and the safer the students will be. Adding a few more security guards wouldn't hurt either. 
The University's Safewalk program is a step in the right direction towards increas­ing student safety, but the parking lots are so dark at night that I doubt even the bravest safewalkers would want to trot through D2. Students shouldn't have to add a can of mace to their keychains because the administration doesn't feel like adding a few more lights in the lots. 
Something tells me that this University has enough money to afford to put up more lights in all of the campus parking lots. As the number of on-and off-campus attacks escalates, the administration should become increasingly aware of the problem of poorly lit parking lots and do something to rectify that situation. 
The problem of insufficient lighting in the parking lots has gone on for an inexcusably long time. What has to happen before the administration decides to do something about this serious safety problem? I cer­tainly hope it doesn't take another attack in the parking lot to get the administration to do something that should have been done a long time ago. 
This University needs to "lighten up" in more ways than one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
r--------------------------------­
-Ihe~~ObserYer-­
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 
ProductionNews 
Cristina Ortiz Mike Owen 
Paul Pearson Jeanne Blasi 
Systems
.Accenl 
Cesar Capella Fran Moyer 
Brian Grunert 
Paul Froning Robyn Simmons 
Circulation Sports Bill O'Rourke Ken Tysiac Matt Novak 
Rolando deAguiar 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods. The Observer os a member of the Associated Press. All reproducti::>n roghts are reserved. 


Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 3 



Drug lord can be extradited despite new policy
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -these thugs-so much the bet-day, he would be extradited," in fighting between rival drug country's own justice system. Despite the government's offer ter," Attorney General Dick said the official who spoke gangs and violence by right-Total reliance on foreign to stop extraditing drug king­Thornburgh said in a statement Thursday. wing death squads financed by courts saps people's confidence pins. Colombia's senior cocaine from Washington. He said Colombia would not drug traffickers. in Colombia's institutions. he kingpin still would be sent to But he warned that "if the so-allow the new measure to be-During the past year. the added. the United States for trial, a called extraditables fail to take come a "joke" in which major Medellin cartel has been de­top government official said advantage of this opportunity drug criminals confess only mi-manding an end to extradition, Gaviria's predecessor, Virgilio Thursday. to surrender ... we will continue nor crimes to avoid extradition. the fate it fears most. Barco, undertook extraditions 
Pablo Escobar. head of the to support Colombia's effort to "If Pablo Escobar surren-In repeated statements, drug to the United States a year ago. Medellin cocaine cartel, would arrest and extradite them to dered but failed to confess all traffickers have offered to turn after drug traffickers declared be sent to the United States un­the United States for trial." of his crimes, he would run the themselves in to Colombian war on the state. less he turns himself in and President Cesar Gaviria modi-risk of being extradited," he judges, in an apparent attempt confesses all his crimes. said fled a year-old policy by an-added. to persuade the government to Extraditions are controversial the official, who is involved in nouncing Wednesday that co-The government hopes to con-end extraditions. in Colombia because many peo­policy and decision-making. He caine traffickers who surrender vince medium-and lower-level The Medellin cartel in July de­ple believe sending citizens to spoke to reporters on condition to Colombian authorities will drug smugglers to surrender clared a unilateral cease-fire in face trial abroad is an insult to of anonymity. not be extradited to the United and cooperate with authorities, its terrorist attacks, apparently national pride. 
The Bush administration cau­States. he said. hoping the new administration tiously endorsed the new policy. Gaviria said the decision, Officials blame the Medellin would end extraditions. Gaviria However, Colombia's justice 
"If the government and people which came in the form of an cartel, which Escobar leads, for was inaugurated Aug. 7. system has so far failed to keep of Colombia are now able to official decree, applies to those killing about 500 Colombians The official said it was neces­any major trafficker in jail. enforce their own laws against who surrender, not those cap-the past year, including three sary to show the Colombian Drug lords often bribe or drug trafficking -prosecuting, tured by police. presidential candidates. people that the president is threaten officials into letting convicting. and incarcerating "If Escobar were captured to-Thousands of others have died seeking solutions based on the them go free. 
AP Photo 

A group of tank commanders review their plans during breakfast for the day's training maneuvers as they sit in the sand near an M-1 Abrams tank in Saudi ~rabia Wednesday morning. The crew is from the 24th Infantry Division based at Ft. Stewart, Ga. Troops such as the ones from the 24th Infantry have been on alert for almost f1ve weeks. 


Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
SOUTH BENO•s FRUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-UJEEKLV SPECIRLS-

Rnd ...of course ... THE BEST 
1 1JJI£ ~1 JJSJUIE UIf!/ 1!J.1JJt-"1 
THURSDAY: High Energy Rock-n-roll witn "DIGITAL HAIR" FRIDAY: Straight from FARM AID ''THE HAMMERHEADS" SATURDAY: Rock -n-Roll at its best "1-900" 
eta lifeII
Happy 20th Birthday 
Join 

The Observer
"Dirty Di" 
alvin and Hobbes, Far Side 
and Spelunker 


i $1.00 OFF COUER I 
; !<UV........
~-------------.. 
I 081JeqaqiJA~Je5 I 
~ I c~ 

I I ­
9Xp. 9-9-90 J JMile-NonhofNot~O..meonEmmonsRo.d
L 1n Georcetown Shopptns Ccfttcf' • 2T1·172? 
page 4 The Observer Friday, September 7, 1990 

AP Photo Secretary of State James Baker speaks with Sen. Jesse Helms, A­N.C., left, prior to an appearance before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Capitol Hill Wednesday. Baker said the U.S. and its allies must plan a new "regional security structure" for the Middle East that would not only stop Iraqi aggression but deal with future crisis in 
the 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
GemaStt"le
at n1te 
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS 
Nick's • 

O""o"wooo 
8
~, FA:~: ~ND 
IN 
~~ RESTAURANT 
277-7400 
Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner 
.....................
•DINNER SPECIAL Purchase any dinner fit regu ler price e~nd receive another dinner of equal or lesser value at hell f price with this 
coupon. Expiration de~te: 9-15 

··················=·-·~ 
DINNER SPECIAL •
• 
Purchase any dinner :
•
at regular price end : receive another dinner : of equal or lesser value: at half price with this:
•
coupon. •
• 
Expiration date: 9-15 : 
Bush will appear on Iraqi TV, but on own terms, spokesman says 
TOPEKA, Kan. (AP) ­President Bush will accept Saddam Hussein's offer to broadcast a message to Iraq, but only on his own terms, Bush's spokesman said Thursday. The president will make a tape in lieu of an inter­view with an Iraqi TV crew. 
"It's a real opportunity," Bush said of Saddam's offer to televise the U.S. leader's com­ments. Bush's spokesman said the president had "a very dis­tinct message" to give the Iraqi people about American reasons for the massive military buildup in the Persian Gulf. 
Iraqi Ambassador Mohamed al-Mashat said in Washington that "of course" Iraqi TV would air Bush's message "in its entirety without editing. Here you edit, in Iraq we do not edit." 
Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Bush's address would be eight to 10 minutes long. 
"We will have a whole pack­age for broadcast on Iraqi tele­vision, and then we'll have a State Department interpreter who will provide the interpreta­tion some way" into Arabic, Fitzwater said, adding that the tape will be released generally. 
On another t~pic, looking ahead to this weekend's super­power summit, Bush said he will use the meeting not only to discuss the Persian Gulf with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev but to press for a quick resolution to strategic arms talks. 

Before embarking on a one­day political trip to Kansas and Florida on Thursday, Bush spoke by telephone with anum­ber of world leaders on the gulf situation and his upcoming meeting with Gorbachev. They included Syrian President Hafez al-Assad, Turkish President Turgut Ozal, French President Francois Mitterrand and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the White House said. 
He also called United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to thank him for his unsuccessful try at resolving the gulf crisis in talks last week in Iraq. 
Bush also met Thursday with Israel's visiting foreign minis­ter, David Levy, in Washington. 
Naji al-Hadithi, director gen­eral of Iraq's Information Ministry, said in Baghdad that an Iraqi television crew was ready to go to Washington to interview Bush for a broadcast on state-run television. 
Fitzwater said that wouldn't be necessary-"we'll produce it ourselves." 
"Although we have not heard from Iraq directly, we accept their offer of a broadcast to the Iraqi people. The president will tape a message to the Iraqi people in the next few days which will be provided to the Iraqi information minister," Fitzwater told reporters ac­companying Bush on Air Force 
One. 
Bush has said he wished he could have the media access in Iraq that Saddam has had on 
U.S. television. The Iraqi presi­dent's statements and appear­ances have been broadcast widely, many of them on live and unedited CNN reports. 
"The president has a very dis­tinct message that he wants to give to the people of Iraq about our purpose for being in the gulf. He thinks this is a good opportunity," Fitzwater said. 
On a separate matter, Fitzwater said that there is no new economic package for the Soviet Union in the offering, although the Sunday summit meeting in Helsinki will offer a chance to talk about "technical assistance." 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 8PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM All seats reserved: $19.00 Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office, Nightwinds Record Connection and all the usual in and out of town locations. Charge by phone: 284-9190 Tickets~lso available at LaFortune Student Center 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page·5 
•

Judge keeps bond for suspect 1n UF murders 
SHARPES, Fla. (AP) -A judge Thursday cited bizarre behavior as a reason to uphold a $1 million bond on an assault charge for a young man sus­pected in the slayings of five college students in Gainesville. 
Homicide task force investi­gators were searching the 18­year-old's Gainesville apart­ment and car for clues to the slayings. But police cautioned he is only one of eight leading suspects, and his brother said he's being made a scapegoat. 
Becalise of the unusually high bond, Edward Humphrey has been in the Brevard County jail since Aug. 30 on a charge of battering his grandmother. 
"I see before me a very dis­turbed individual," Circuit Judge Martin Budnick said at the bail-reduction hearing at the jail. "I see a great deal of acting out ... neurotic or psy­chotic behavior." 
Jail officer Emily Glaab testi­fied Humphrey described him­self as dangerous and "a sav­age," threatened a female in­mate, and called himself "John" and warned "John doesn't take no prisoners." 
Brevard State Attorney Norm Wolfinger, arguing for the high bond, said "The fact remains he is a suspect in the Gainesville murders and he knows that." 
Public Defender J.R. Russo objected, and the judge agreed he couldn't set a bond based on a case Humphrey hasn't been charged in. However, the judge said he would be doing "a dis­service to the community" if he allowed Humphrey to go free. 
Budnick ruled that Humphrey is a danger to the community. But he indicated he would con-
Hymns composed by Warner published in Canadian book 
Special to the Observer 
"Psaltery," a collection of li­
turgical music by Steven 
Warner. associate director of 
the University of Notre Dame's 
Office of Campus Ministry, has 
been recently published by GIA 
Publications of Chicago. 
The collection includes ten re­
sponsorial psalm settings for 
keyboard, guitar, harp, vocal 
soloist and four-part choir. The 
music was written by Warner 
for Sunday Masses at Notre 
Dame. 
A combination of two genres 
of sacred music designed for 
use by liturgical assemblies 
with either organ or guitar as 
the leading instrument, 
"Psaltery," according to 
Warner, "seeks to bring to­
gether contemporary liturgical 
music, by way of its lyricism 
and expressiveness on the gui­
tar, with traditional chant 
styles, with its free-flowing 
sense of rhythm and modal 
progressions." 
Some of the material in the collection have been approved for inclusion in the "Canadian Book of Worship," the hymnal used by most Catholics in Canada. 
Warner has worked in the University's Campus Ministry office since 1979, when he be­gan work on a master of arts degree in liturgical studies at Notre Dame. Among the musi­cal instruments with which he is proficient are the guitar and the Irish harp. 
Warner is director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, which regularly leads the music at the 
11:45 a.m. Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart Church. He has take'n the choir on two interna­tional tours, both to the Republic of Ireland, in 1988 and 1990. 
For the last two year, he has managed Campus Ministry's li­turgical celebration of the Feast of Saint Patrick, using music written in collaboration with with parishes and liturlti­
cal centers in Ireland and di­recting the Folk Choir in a recording of the Mass. 
sider another request for bond reduction and wanted to hear medical testimony about Humphrey's mental condition. 
Russo did not comment afterw,ard on whether he would seek another hearing. He said he was preparing for the trial on the aggravated assault charge, tentatively scheduled for Or.tober. 
Humphrey's grandmother testified she didn't want to press charges and would wel­come Humphrey back into her home, where Humphrey's mother also lives, in Indialantic, 180 miles from Gainesville. 
"I want it dropped ... defi­nitely," Elna Hlavaty, her right cheek and right eye badly bruised, said as Humphrey watched. 
She said she didn't fear her grandson, although she had called police repeatedly. 

She said she couldn't remem­ber anything about the night of the incident other than that she hurt her right side when she fell on a concrete floor. The 79­year-old Hlavaty protested she was old and ill and couldn't an­swer any more questions from prosecutors. 
Sheriff's Deputy Douglas Hammack testified she told him the night of the arrest that she feared Humphrey would beat her again. Humphrey started banging his head against his patrol car when Hammack put him inside, the deputy testified. 
Hammack said he had gone to the grandmother's home five or six times on disturbance complaints and was told Humphrey was refusing to take 
medicine to control mood swings. 
He testified on one visit he had Humphrey remove a knife from the front seat of his car and lock it in the trunk. 
Besides Humphrey's apart­ment, detectives searched his grandmother's home and his black Cadillac. Authorities .said the grandmother's home was unoccupied during the search because the family was at the hearing. 
George Humphrey, a University of Florida senior. charged that his younger brother is being made a scape­goat and that the press is sen­sationalizing the killings. 
"Ed didn't do it, Ed didn't do it. He's not capable of it," Humphrey told reporters in Sharpes. 

You're next 

APPho!o First l~dy Barbara Bush takes a call while appearing on the ABC Radio show American Agenda a~red from Wash1ngton Wednesday. The show, hosted by Peter Jenkins, focused on literacy in America. 
Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 


Notre Dame vs. Michigan Saturday, September 8 Stepan Field Admission Free 
Just Show Up! 

Friday, September 7, 1990 

page 6 The Observer 
Dukakis allies put end to rebellion 

APPholo
A father's final salute 

Air Force Reserve Col. Robert Schuldt and his wife, Carolyn, bid farewell before the remains of their son, Capt. Br~dley Schuldt: are l~id to rest Wednesday in Arlington Heights, Ill. Capt. Schuldt was among 13 people k1lled when the1r Pers1an Gulf-bound C-5 transport jet crashed shortly after takeoff in West Germany 
last Wednesday. 
NDASA announces Africa Week 
By SARAH VOIGT assert their own culture and to • A panel discussion entitled News Writer combat homesickness for their "Recent Political Developments homeland." he said. "It will also in Southern Africa" will be held 
BOSTON (AP) -After being held a political hostage by a mutinous lieutenant governor. Gov. Michael Dukakis departed on a European trade mission Thursday as his allies moved to quash the rebellion. 
Dukakis had delayed his travel plans Tuesday after Lt. Gov. Evelyn Murphy threatened to seize control of Massachusetts' feeble finances once he left. 
"I think the episode of the past 24 hours is really kind of pathetic," Dukakis said at a brief airport news conference before boarding his plane to Germany. 
While Dukakis allies mt~. Jd to quash the rebellion Thursday, with references to a new form of "Murphy's Law" and an "attempted bloodless coup," Murphy said her boss was acting "weird" by not letting her assert herself. 
"There's no good will here and certainly no mutual respect," Murphy said. 
Dukakis said he did not speak to Murphy on Thursday, but he said he believed her assurances that she would act respon­siblity in his absence. But he said he could cut his trip short if anything occurs that affected the government's stability. 
Murphy spokeswoman Jody D'Urso said the lieutenant governor, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, would not take any action Thursday night. D'Urso did not rule out Murphy acting later. 
Murphy. who is lagging in her Democratic primary race to succeed Dukakis, had been a strong supporter of the governor in his 1988 bid for the presidency. But with the state in a fiscal disaster and Dukakis not seeking re-election, politicians have treated him as a liability. 
Dukakis decided to postpone his travel plans, prompting some observers to say he was being held hostage by his own lieutenant governor. 
Dukakis bitterly denounced the tactic as a maneuver designed to gain favor with voters in the gubernatorial race. On Thursday, aides to Dukakis echoed that charge. 
"Here's a lady who isn't going to get elected governor no matter what she does, and she is dangerously flirting with the economic health of the com­monwealth of Massachusetts. That's irresponsible," said L. Edward Lashman, state secretary of Administration and Finance. Lashman said he isn't publicly supporting any candidate in the Sept. 18 primary. 
According to recent public opinion polls, Murphy is well behind her two Democratic opponents. 
Gulf 
continued from page 1 
Helsinki, Finland. 

Previously, the Soviets had said only that they might par­ticipate if the United Nations decided to deploy a military force. 
"We have to go back to the 
U.N. charter and revive certain clauses of this charter ... which may have armed forces -in­ternational armed forces -at its disposal so as to keep inter­national peace and security," Gerasimov told reporters. 
Gerasimov spoke a day after Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, met with Gorbachev and displayed no softening in Iraq'srefusal to leave Kuwait. Moscow and Baghdad were longtime allies, but Gorbachev has condemned the Kuwait in­vasion as "treachery." 
Expenses escalate daily for the U.S. military deployment, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady arrived Thursday in Seoul, South Korea, the latest stop on a tour to press allies for funds. Secretary of State James Baker was making the same pitch in Saudi Arabia. 

Africa Week, a first annual promote stronger awareness 
in the Engineering Auditorium'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-' 
series of academic and artistic about African issues." on September 12 at 7 p.m. ~ ~ events scheduled on campus Kougniazonde said that the 
from September 9-14, was or­NDASA first conceived of • A discussion entitled "The~ H 8 • th d ~ 
ganized by the Notre Dame Africa Week as an attempt to Crisis of the Post-Independence~ ap p y Ir ay s African Students Association recreate the enthusiasm for African State" will be held ins 
Uu ~ (NDASA) to discuss and cele­African unity observed in Africa Theodore's at Lafortune on S fW1-'\nn\YJ ~I?~ l-'\f1(ol S brate African culture. on May 5. September 13 at 7:30p.m. ~ ~~ljljij lriJ \S.l0~lj~ ~ 
According to Christophe The events scheduled for Kougniazonde, president of the Africa Week include the follow­• A closing reception with~ ~ NDASA, "Africa Week coincides ing: special African dishes, music\ GO SMC S 
with one of the goals of Notre • The film "Cry the Beloved and dance will be held in Stepan~ S Dame, which is intercultural di­Country." based on Alan Pa­
~~-ter on September 14 at 8~ SOCCER/ ~ 
versity, a dialogue between dif­ton's story of South Africa, ferent cultures. We want to en­shown in the Annenberg Audi­• Two documentary videos. S S courage this, to provide a fo­torium of the Snite Museum on "The Africans," by Ali Mazrui~ ~ rum for issues about Africa." September 9 at 7:30 p.m. and "Traditional and ModernS Love S 
Kougniazonde believes that • The Geke Ballet, Chicago African Music," will be shown~ , S Africa Week will satisfy two based dance company. will per­in the Montgomery Theatre of S Mom & Dad S important needs on campus. form to African drums in LaFortune every day Septembers . ~ "This week will help Africans Lafortune on September 9. 10-15. ~ . ~ 
Correction The headline on an article in the Business section of Thursday's Observer regard­ing auto insurance rates was incorrect. It should have read "Hoosiers pay 13th lowest insurance rates in nation."  
Have a nice day!  


s._,,,,,,,'\..'-'-''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
HEY JEFF! 

PliO 
HOW MUCH HAVE YOU 

•·o11

B•I•K•E S·H•O•P GROWN THIS specialists in pro bikes 
YEAR? 

is welcoming,__students back to school by taking 10~ o1f a full selection of [M]&\[F)[F)W1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
CIDO~tr~@&\W~~
Mon-Frt 10 am-7 pm Sat 9am-5pm on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison) FROM 272-0129 THE GANG 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Judge: Mapplethorpe case must go to trial 
CINCINNATI (AP) -A jury spective is a vehicle for display­must decide whether an art ing the five S&M photographs," gallery and its director broke he said. obscenity laws by exhibiting Defense lawyers contend the five sexually graphic Robert 175 pictures in the exhibition-Mapplethorpe photographs, a mainly portraits and pictures judge ruled Thursday. of flowers -aren't obscene 
Hamilton County Municipal when considered as a group. Judge David Albanese ordered ''I'm disappointed in the rul­Dennis Barrie and the ing. I think the court is incor­Contemporary Arts Center to rect," said Barrie's lawyer, H. stand trial Sept. 24 on one mis-Louis Sirkin. demeanor charge each of pan-Sirkin said he wouldn't know dering obscenity. how Albanese's decision would 
Barrie and the gallery already affect his case until he reviews were scheduled to go on trial the judge's ruling. that day on one charge each of "It certainly doesn't help us," using children in material in-Sirkin said. volving nudity. Albanese said The charges were filed April the trial, which will address the 7, the day the exhibition opened obscenity and nudity charges, to the public. The exhibition could last 10 days. closed May 26, after 81,000 
In his order Thursday, people had visited the gallery. Albanese rejected defense ar-The child nudity charge is guments that the obscenity based on separate shots in the charge should be dismissed be-exhibition of a boy and a girl cause state obscenity law ex-with their genitals exposed. erupts legitimate art displays. The Mapplethorpe exhibition 
"This argument combines opened Aug. 1 at the Institute facts, affirmative defenses and for Contemporary Art in issues of credibility. This court Boston. On Wednesday, A court will not pretry the case on clerk in that city refused a re-those issues," the judge said. quest to file obscenity charges. 
Each charge carries a maxi-Marc Mezibov, the lawyer for mum penalty of six months in the Contemporary Arts Center, jail and a $1,000 fine for Barrie asked Albanese whether he was and a $5,000 fine for the aware of the Boston ruling. Contemporary Arts Center. Mezibov said he believes it 
Albanese also granted a means the pictures have artistic prosecution request to let value and would be immune jurors see only the five pho-from obscenity charges. tographs that depict sado-Albanese indicated he had not masochistic sex acts when con-read the ruling. He cautioned, sidering the obscenity charge. however, that Massachusetts 
Prosecutors will only have to obscenity law differs from prove that one is obscene to Ohio's, and that the Boston de­win a conviction, the judge said. cision would have no bearing 
"The court believes the retro-on the Cincinnati case. 

Prepping for rugby 
The Observer /David Short 

Although rugby does not have the status that football does on this campus, several interh~ll teams have sprung up around campus for this interesting game includmg these players shown stretching out. 
Special to the Observer 
"Bruce Bobick: Beans, Quilts, Chance and Determinism," a one-man show featuring quilts and quilt paintings, will open at the Snite Museum of Art Sept. 9 (Sunday) and will continue through October 21. 
Bobick received his master of fine arts degree from Notre Dame in 1958. He is professor and chairman of the de­partment of art at West Georgia College, Carrollton, Ga. 
The quilt series grew out of Bobick's interest in the workings of the subconscious and Louis Pasteur's words, "Chance favors the prepared mind." The exhibit explores "the opposing concepts of de­terminism and free will," Bobick said. 

"In studying history, one becomes aware of the sup­posedly random flukes of luck that have resulted in famous discoveries or inventions, and by knowing that the subcon­scious mind is active during sleep," he said, "I thought it appropriate to do a series of quilts made by grandmothers of famous individuals. The im­ages on the guilts permeated the subconscious of the sleeping children night after night and led directly to the famous discovery, invention, or work of art." 
Bobick will be present at the opening of his exhibition and will speak about his "use of beans as a metaphor for the human condition." 
Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday (when classes are in session). The museum is closed Monday and all major holidays. Admission is free. 



Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

Sunday, September 9 
Cry the Beloved Country 
Annenberg 7:.30 pm 
Monday, September 10 
Joseph Garb a, President of the General Assembly, UN 
"New Politics Among Nations" Washin ton Hall 7:00 m 
Good 

health starts with good 
Lnutrition. 
v---~~ 
'\.,.~ 

• ., \,eft 
_j ~~~I!:!n~ &. ~ ·~1 
Rl$tOrflnt~" 

Palin Dtolt.,, lotOC:IIfl, l'rlltuin•. 
Manlroui. I'...,z, O.i~:knr f:Ordntnr~, (ulrtnilo, llf..r, lrinl', IJ<VUJ'"., Rnmn. NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
--, D!NNER4P.M.-11P.M. :­

v19232:424ill4 ~1 
. South of Notre o .. ,..• Gold•n Dome~/a!2 South. Bond Avenu• A 

.. ~-~~, 
Friday, September 7, 1990

page 8 The Observer 
Bridge blocked in Mohawk dispute reopens after 2 months 
MONTREAL (AP) -The Mercier Bridge linking Montreal to its south"shore suburbs opened Thursday for the first time following an eight-week standoff between armed Mohawks and police. 
As army pipers played, hun­dreds of cars and trucks drove onto the bridge from suburban Chateauguay, through the Kahnawake Mohawk reserve and past armored personnel 
carriers in the early morning mist. Commuters had started lining up their cars an hour earlier, 
horns honking impatiently  as  
they waited  for  the army  to  
wave them through.  

"It's about time," one man on his way to work at a Montreal refrigerated warehouse told a radio station. "The government should never have let this hap­pen in the first place." 
The bridge normally handles about 70,000 vehicles during the daily rush hour. It was bar­ricaded by natives from the Kahnawake reserve after provincial police staged an abortive attack on a Mohawk barricade at Kahnesatake near Oka, Quebec, on July 11 in which an officer died. 
The bridge closure led to vio­lent demonstrations by south­shore commuters, including an incident last week in which a white mob hurled stones at a convoy of Mohawk women, children and invalids escaping the reserve. 

The stage was set for the re­opening when barricades at Kahnawake came down last week after an agreement was reached betwPen the army and Mohawks. 
But in Kahnesatake -where the Mohawk deadlock began over a land dispute -soldiers spent Wednesday firming up their positions around the last Warrior stronghold. 
The deadlock at Oka began when provincial police stormed a barricade the Mohawks erected to stop the town's plans to expand the local golf course, saying the property in question was part of their ancestral land. 
The Observer /David Short
Female football 

Members of the Breen-Phillips interhall football team jog in the hot sun yesterday in preparation for their first match-up on the gridiron. With the startup of interhall teams, football season cannot be far behind. 
JACC scheduled to present Food Pavilion this weekend 
Special to the Observer 

The First Annual WSBT-TV South Bend Women's Show/Kroger Food Pavilion will be held at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center September 7-9. 
The show will feature more than 150 booths, fashion shows. beauty demonstrations, cooking demonstrations and aerobic workouts. Michael 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. 

O'Leary, star of the daytime televsion series "Guiding Light," and Don Diamant, star of the series "The Young and Restless," are scheduled to ap­pear during the weekend. 
The show will be held on Fri­day, Sep. 7, 11a.m.-9 p.m.; Sat­urday, Sep. 8, 10a.m.-8p.m.; and Sunday, Sep. 9, 12p.m.­6p.m. Tickets are $3 for adults, $2 with a discount coupon. Children under eight will admitted free. 
Have a nice day! 
Our monthly General Meetings 
are a chance for everyone in our 
group to get together and discuss 
upcoming projects, lectures, and 
A Group for 
r-G~lJ7~ 11@~~n~lJli!~ 

events in a friendly and unthreat­ening forum. Along with provid­
(!!J]l~ ]~ }l~~r!T!ll<!lll 

ing an opportunity to plan and an­nounce group activities, the Gener­al Meetings are also a time to meet other people like yourself. 
the 

Our Discussion Groups provide <1 group of peers to talk with about the issues of being gay, lesbian, orbe bisexual in a world that often mis­understands homosexual people. The Discussion Groups sometimes have a topic or theme, but people are always free to talk about what­
ever they are feeling.
First Monthly 

The Student Discussion Group
General Meeting 

will be meeting weekly, starting this Tuesday night. A Faculty/ Staff Discussion Group is now forming.
Sunday, 9 September 1990 

I 
For more information on any of these meetings, or what our group is all about, please call one of the 
numbers listed below. 
First Student 

:• 
Discussion Group

: 
I• 
Tuesday, 11 September 1990 


l For more information, call 
. 
Mike 237-0788
: 
Carol 232-3330 
john 259-3157 


WELCOME BACK ND and SMC tonight: 
Dr. BOP and the Headliners 9:30pm 
* 1/2 price admission Wed-Sat with college I.D. 
: Nightly specials. . . 
• 256-0710 for details
: 
~···········....................! 

~................................------~----~----.---------------------------~-------------------------­
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
NEED lWO MICHIGAN GA TO MIKKI, NONICA, CIZ, LATHY,
jan's in first place so far, but she Hey Off CALL COLLECT AND THE BADIN BROTHEL­
still needs your votes. Vote JEN, Campus/Graduates/Faculty The 
Environment

313-663-4830 DON'T FORTGET ABOUT THE
PRETTIEST DRESSER TOP AT Shirt is Still Only $8 so if you
Class 
M-TH AFTER 8:15 PM STUDY (BEER) BREAK IN 305
NO. You'd be her if you could, missed the order deadline pick up 
F-SUN ANY TIME MONDAY!!-LOVE, VCB
wouldn't you??? the Real McCoy Today! 
continued from page 14 
center opens 

NEED ALL THE STANDFORD TIX or application. 277-5123 on campus? You're not alone! But how do we know about your 
BEER! $$$Sell me your student tix Think you're the only gay guy Dear Sid: Of course Angie is cute. 
I CAN GET. GA's & stud. CALL HEY DILLON FRESHMAN: 
il"1 Budapest

DENNIS X2384 I'm just one nice guy interested in Where's my bra? roommate? See you tomorrow at meeting for friendship. Discretion --Swingin' in Farley the Grape Road Hacienda-­BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP)­Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket 
assured, it's important to me Brunette 
Hungarian President Arpad
Call Chris X2274

I need 1 MIAMI stud. ticket too. Thanks! Steve, P.O. Box 
WANTED Goencz planted a tree Thursday
ca11Mikeatx1701 753, South Bend, IN. 46624 THEY ARE HERE! HELPII Need MICH stud TIXII THE 1990 WINDOW POSTERS to mark the opening of an in­
HELP!!! call Tanja x1511 Campus rock band PHOENIX
Wealthy Alumni need Michigan AND THEY ARE FREEl ternational environmental
looking for lead singer. Classic 

GAs. 
center to help Eastern Europe

rock --no wimps! Pat (405)332-3411) I would like student tickets 12:15 DOME STEPS STANFORD CALL 273-1364 cope with its widespread for all home games, esp. tor call Peter x1414 pollution problems. 
Call Matt x2045 ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL TODAY NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Penn St. !II! Call Jeff x1747 
The Shirt The Shirt Help! Drummer and Guitarist need 
Proposed by President Bush
$5 HAIRCUTS!!II 

bassisVIead vocals BADLY for Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm Those who ordered The Shirt REGULAR & ROTC classic/danceable rock band. Scott when he visited Hungary in 
little, so DON'T HURT MEII! And July, the Regional
NEED AIR FORCE STUD. TIXIII from the Student Union Board 239-7666 
give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for
PLEASE CALL JEFF X1836 Secretary's Desk on LaFortune's VITO'S BARBERSHOP Environmental Center is an 
Stanford and Purdue. x2632 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST
2nd Floor may pick up The Shirt on I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN independent organization for
SOUTH BEND

FRIDAY Sept. 7th and there after!! GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­
training and information on

I need a Michigan student tic.
Needed: USC GA's. Will take any And don1 forget to intimidate those 4005 
You need money. Call me. 233-4767 energy efficiency, public health
amount. Contact Scott: 283-1818. Wolverines by wearing it on 
Jay x2290 Saturday Sept. 15thIll DESPERATEIll and regional cooperation on Needed: 2 Penn State GA's. I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX pressing environmental 
Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air

Contact Greg at 283-1517. GO IRISH BEAT WOLVERINES! FOR THE MICH. GAME. 
problems.
Force! CALL HEATHER 271-9260 

call Julie X1992 It is designed to provide data
I need one student Michigan MARY GARINO: Why are you ticket. Willing to pay big sitting in the grass?? Molly J: 7 more days!!!! on environmental issues, but
PERSONALS 
ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR

money. Call Tim: #2281 not to get involved in political
THANKS, ST. JUDE BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion Band seeks DRUMMER & 
decisions in Eastern European

groups forming. For info call Carol GUITARIST. Folk rock, some hiag KD 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. blues, some reggae, some countries, said Lee Pasarew, di­I need 2 Mich. Stud. tix TOP TEN B-DAY QUOTES from surprises. Call DAVE at 2238 or rector of its project devel­Will pay very good $$$ NEED lWO MICHIGAN TIXS TUESDAY NIGHT: Looking for a really good housing CHRIS at 2193. 
opment team. Peter Hardi is the

PLEASE CALL KARIN AT deal? Male (undergraduate) X1992 9. 'We're going to a prayer roommate needed to share an jpt-are you happy? can they hear executive director. meeting." apartment/house. Washer-dryer, you're heartbeat? "The opening of this center NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? Cheap Haircuts!!! 8. "Pasquale, please give us just air, storage space. $100-$175 a today is only the latest in a "If you can describe it, I can do it. month--includes everything. (Call Preppie-
Please call Drew @ 1789 10. "Do you guys know Jay?" 
one shot?" remarkable series of events
Rm #628 Grace (Bryant) late!) Bill 234-4995 Six months of our own love story 
ME TOO 7. "Do you love me, will you love 
I love you, that history will record as the 
me forever?" 
4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami 6. "I have size 14 feet." Do you like camping and kids? Can Jenny revolution of 1989," William fans that need humbling. 5. "Alii how was Hands-on you spare one weekend a month? Reilly, administrator of the CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN NO/SMC counselors needed for a 
BILL BLANFORD. Sorry we

Hanson?" Environmental Protection
were late.

ESCORT ON CAMPUS... local school's environmental 
272-8954 Amy 4. "Show me the way to go home..." 
Agency, said in an opening

EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM camping club--"Earth Crusaders." 
3. "Monica, do you always hold 
CALL 283-BLUE your tarts in?" Need also musicians for evening speech. I have 2 stud tix for all NO home 2. "I twisted Brian's." campfire. Call Bill (late) 234-4995 · VIV PADILLA. Sorry we were late. Eastern European countries Rich alumnus will pay
games 271-0999 Best Offer 1. "AMAZING GRACE--Praise the JOHN FLETCHER. Sorry we are struggling with the results
BIG$$$$$ THE SHIRT
LORD!" 
were late. of a chronic disregard for the
HELP!!!! NEED 3 MIAMI and for footballtix application Thanks to all my buddies for THE SHIRT 
call#1782 THE SHIRT environment that characterized
1 PSU tix for the family. Will making my b-day great. Thanks Moriarty's Meeting 
pay top $ for the tix! Siegfriedites and Observerites for GET PSYCHED! the Communist regimes over­
Friday at 4 at Senor Kelly's. call 4867 and ask for Amy my cakes and cards. Thanks 
GET PSYCHED! 
thrown last year.

P.I.G.. GET PSYCHED!
Cengiz for my special card (TB). 
Antiquated factories central
RIDE NEEDED TO

Happy 1 year!! You have made THE SHIRT
Most of all, thanks Monish, ET, me the happiest person in the THE SHIRT 
FT. WAYNE AREA 
to their economies still spew

Uza, Alii and Rach (our wonderful world! Soon we will be united for THE SHIRT 
WEEKENDS. WILL 
tons of waste into the air and

COKED up driver) for a fun-filled 
HELP PAY FOR GAS.

Alumni dad coming from Calif. life. We have a lot to look forward evening. (Thanks Rob & Terry for 
water. Many forests are
Please call Danuta

to!! Can Still be Purchased on 234-5919-evenlngs or 
NEED one mich. GA that special guest appearance.) 
damaged, if not decimated, by

I LOVE YOU! F.LE.A. LaFortune's 2nd Floor SUB Secretary's Desk until game day! 
1930 Can't wait 'till next year 21111 --KT 
John at 1-432-2516 
acid rain. 


\<.e a brea\<. from
T~ d sandwiches. 
p1zza an . ·· 
......·,~~ 

After a long day of classes and endless homework, 
one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... 
. '·· the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. And, remember. Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 1 0% discount on food to all ND/SMC students, faculty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID 
required). So why put up w~~it~h~sta~le~p~i~zz=a~a~n~d~s=a~nd~w~icihe~s~..~-;:~~~:.....;...;~1
when you can come home ~ Hacienda? 
Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express. VISA. Master card accepted. 


:Grape Road at IndianRidgePiaza, Mishawaka (Near Phar-Morand T.~. Maxxl _277~1318: 

BEFOBEYOU 
HAVE TO BURY 
YOURHEADIN 
BOOKS ... 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO 
&BWWDRY
$1195 
• No Appointment! 
• 
7 Days a Weekl 

• 
FBEE Tanning ­Buy4-Get4 FREE! 


INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE AD. MISHAWAKA 
277-7946 

Wanted-
Reilly said Wednesday that the center was a "way of providing legitimacy, in­volvement" for Eastern European environmentalists who had been previously suppressed. 

Half ofthe $10 million needed to start the center was donated by the United States. The European Community gave $2.5 million; Hungary $800,000; and the Netherlands, Austria and Canada $1.5 million total. 

Friday, September 7, 1990

page 10 The Observer 

APPhotO

American pizza for Soviets 
Two fashionably dressed Soviet women taste American pizzas at the first ever Pizza Hut in the USSR Wednesday. The restaurant in undergoing a week of trial and is to be officially opened next week. 
NASA will make next try at launch mid-Sept 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -NASA said Thursday it will replace the fuel pump that likely caused its latest failure to get astronauts back in space and try again in mid-September to launch Columbia. 
NASA Administrator Richard Truly said a new pump will be installed this weekend. If that seems to correct the problem, a fourth launch attempt will be made to launch the shuttle with an astronomical observatory early in the week of Sept. 17. 
"It's not a 100 percent guar­antee. But it's the one shot we have to get the Astro mission airborne" before Discovery's scheduled flight with the Ulysses satellite in October, Truly said. 
The unit is bolted in and can be replaced easily, said launch director Bob Sieck. Crews can­not enter the compartment until Friday because propel­lants remain aboard, prevent­ing a new pump from being in­stalled until Saturday. 
On Wednesday, NASA called off its third attempt to send Columbia on a mission to study some of the hottest objects in the universe with the $150 mil­lion Astro observatory. Thursday's early morning launch was scrubbed after hy­drogen flooded into the rear compartment. 
Officials continued filling Columbia's massive external tank to pinpoint the source and narrowed their search to the shuttle's three recirculation pumps. 
Each of the shuttle's three main engines has a pump. 
Officials were uncertain which one might be leaking or whether there were other holes. 
The pumps are part of the plumbing in the rear of the shuttle, where pipes range in diameter up to 17 inches. They are directly in front of the huge engines and are accessible through side doors. 
"We're not talking about a large leak. We're talking about an extremely small leak," said Forrest McCartney, director of Kennedy Space Center. "It's very elusive and very frustrat­ing." 
"It is a real booger to try to find and isolate," shuttle boss Robert Crippen said. 
If a new pump does not cor­rect Columbia's leaks or the launch is delayed too long, the mission will wait until after Discovery's flight with Ulysses, a satellite being sent on a five­year journey to explore the sun's polar regions. Discovery must lift off between Oct. 5 to Oct. 23 to take advantage of the proper planet alignment. 
"Ulysses is our first priority and we will not compromise that," said William Lenoir, head of NASA's space. flight program. 
Columbia's seven astronauts left for their training base in Houston at dawn. 
The mood at the space center was one of disappointment mixed with relief. 
"My first reaction was frus­tration," said program scientist Ed Weiler. "But my next thought was, 'My God, I'm glad they stopped, some of my friends are aboard.' " 



Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Five T.V.s 
*Basketball Shoot 
*Two Dart Boards 
* 
Pizzas From Scratch 

* 
DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 


*Conveniently LocatedJust OffCampus 
Located in University Lanes-1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 7, 1990 page 11 
.Ihe ~ObserYer~.,_~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michaei Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Lasting friendships start with Best Buddies program 
By Cecelia Burger 
Mary is a friend of mine. 

There are many things I can tell you about her. For instance, she is a black female in her early thirties. She lives and works in the community. She likes movies and music. She likes to get books to read from the library. And she is especially fond of Pizza Hut pizza, Kentucky Fried Chicken and strawberry ice cream. Mary is friendly but quiet when you first meet her. When she warms up, however, her personality makes her impossible to resist. Obviously, Mary is a very special person to those who know her. But there is something about Mary which a description of her would be incomplete without; Mary is severely retarded and handicapped. 
Mary and I were paired together through Best Buddies, a program sponsored by the Kennedy Foundation which works through Logan Center. Upon seeing her for the first time, it was apparent that she is disabled. After getting to know her, it was quite enlightening (and surprising) to realize that she is also very able. This occurred the moment I stopped looking at the handicap and began to look at the person beyond the handicap. Some would say that Mary is special, and I agree wholeheartedly. But Mary is not special in my eyes because she mentally retarded or handicapped, but because of the feeling of friendship and caring which has grown between us. 
Our relationship has been one of fairly rapid development. In the beginning when I would go to see Mary, I would have to initiate all of the conversation. 
DOONESBURY 

other visits. Obviously, she was 
getting to know me pretty well. 
After that, I wanted to get around the problem of her viewing all my actions as favors to her, (she thanked me for everything, not realizing that I wanted to see her and do things with her). I also wanted her to start calling me if she wanted to see me. I found that the best way to let her know these things was just to come out and say them. It was amazing how well that worked. I was extremely aware of the rare honesty and openness that was so prominent in our developing relationship. 
After that "stage," Mary became even more interactive, asking me things, remembering things we had conversed about on previous visits and asking me about them (i.e. "How was your test?"), asking what I wanted to do, wanting to share with me (secrets as well as food), and calling me if I didn't call when I said I would. 
Mary's presence in my life has had an immense impact on my views of mental retardation, the handicapped, and even the basic meaning of the word "friendship." At first, I d:d not know what to expect, and I was a little apprehensive about working with Mary; I had never had much contact with the Sometimes it was like a police interrogation. I had trouble getting responses, and I didn't know if I was talking "above her level of understanding," or perhaps she just found me boring. I feared that a normal pattern of authoritarian figure and dependant was quickly forming. I decided to stop asking so many questions. 

When Mary and I would go to the movies or some other place, we would ride in the car, listen to music and just enjoy one another. I asked one or two questions and then paused for a time, waiting for a response. Little by little, Mary became more comfortable with me and I with her. She stopped being so uncomfortable about asking me for help or telling me she couldn't do some things because of her handicap. I, in turn, felt more at ease with her handicap and asking about her abilities like the distance she could walk, if she could go up stairs, or if she took the bus to work by herself. I had been telling her some things about myself each visit. Then one day, about the fifth visit, Mary got into the car and, to my astonishment, began the conversation. Not only did she begin, she talked a good five minutes straight! She answered all the questions that I had asked her consistently on our 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


mentally retarded. However, my 
relationship with Mary has 
dissolved many of the fears I 
had. 

My views of challenges, and of people in general, have also been influenced. Mary faces challenges and difficulties in daily life and survival. So much of what is automatic for me presents problems for her. She really has accomplished a tremendous amount. She has worked hard and deserves dignity and respect like anyone else. Instead, she lives in a world where many look down on her and patronize her, focusing on what she can't do rather than what she ran. 
I have also learned about the value of people. So many things about Mary are innate in the human condition. She feels both pain and pleasure, satisfaction and dissatisfaction, approval and disgust. She has ideas and opinions. She laughs and cries and gets angry. She experiences fear and doubt, but she also has her own little successes just like everyone else. Most importantly, she loves and accepts, and desires love and acceptance. 
Mary is mentally retarded. She is also handicapped. She doesn't fit into what most of society may classify as normal. She has limits. But beyond all the labels and stereotypes is a learning, loving, breathing individual who has as much human value as anyone does, and she wants very much what other non-handicapped people want out of their lives. Her intelligence and abilities are limited in some respects, but that is part of Mary; they are only two factors that shape her as an individual. 
Part of friendship is accepting the limits of your friends and cherishing the parts which are truly beautiful and valuable. Yes, Mary is my friend, she is special, and she has taught me the true meaning of friendship. 
I think the Friendship Program is an excellent idea which benefits both participants. The mentally retarded person gets a chance to be socialized, integrated, and experience some normalization of activities with non­handicapped people. The non­handicapped person gets the chance to work with a mentally retarded person and develop a relationship, realizing that such people are not really different in the aspects of human value which really matter. 
Cecelia Burger is a senior psychology and anthropology major and the project coordinator of the Best Buddies Program. 

Is campus parking driving you crazy? The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues.lf you feel the parking situation at Notre Dame could be improved, tell us why and how. Write down your thoughts and submit them to Viewpoint, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'lite is like an onion-you peel off one layer at a time, and sometimes you weep.' 
Carl Sandburg 


MUSIC Doctor Bop and the Headliners, 
Street Blues Cafe, 9:45p.m. 

COMEDY Tim Settimi, Theodore's, 8 p.m. 
ON CAMPUS 

Center 
Open House, LaFortune Student Center, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Grad Night, Alumni Senior Club, 5 -9 p.m. 
ND/SMC Luau, Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's College, 8:30 -11 p.m. 
MUSIC The Balance, Bridget McGuire's, 1 0 p.m. E-Z Wright & the N's and Outs, Center 
Street Blues Cafe, 9:45 p.m. 
XYZ Affair, Club 23, 10 p.m. 

South Bend Wind Quintet, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall. Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. Twila Paris, Gospel Music, Morris Civic Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Friday "Crimes and Misdemeanors," Annenberg 
Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "Harlem Nights," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
Saturday "Crimes and Misdemeanors," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "Hard to Kill," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "My Blue Heaven," 5, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Taking Care of Business," 5:20, 7:30. & 9:40 
p.m. "Duck Tales," 1 & 3 p.m. "Delta Force II," 5, 7:15 & 9:25 p.m. "Fiatliners," 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Ghost," 7:20 & 9:50 p.m. "The Lemon Sisters," 5:40 , 7:40 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Mo Better Blues," 7:15 & 10 p.m. "Jungle Book," 1 :30 & 3:15 p.m. "Wild at Heart," 5, 7:30 & 9:55 p.m. "Exorcist Ill," 7 & 9:30 p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "Witches," 5, 7 & 9 p.m. "Darkman," 5:30, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Arachnophobia," 5, 7 & 9:15p.m. 
100 CENTER ""Young Guns II" 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Gremlins II," 7 & 9:15 p.m. 
A Listener's Guide tc 

CAROL DOMINGUEZ 
accent writer 

Reed believes a wide variety 
B 
y day they are of music equals success. "We Michiana's Classic try to go from real classics, late Rock n' Roll station, 1960s and early 1970s, to the by night they are more recent rock. But even our simply Michiana's current stuff has to fit the rock Rock n' Roll. and roll style," he says. 
The last three letters in Special promotions also cater WAOR stand for Adult Oriented to the different audiences. The Rock, but the station attracts its older crowd, primarily day listeners from diverse age listeners, hear DJ Billy Dee's groups. The latest statistics "Rock and Soul Cafe" in the show that music lovers from 12 lunch hour. Reed says that to 54 are loyally tuned to 95.3 caller requests during this FM. weekday program "range from 
Tom Reed, a part-time disc Motown to traditional rock." jockey for the station, says that Contests geared toward the this loyal audience catapulted younger crowd promote new the station into the number one artists by offering free COs to ratings spot for local radio certain callers. Occasionally, a stations in the spring of 1990. bar that advertises on WAOR This is the first time in WAOR's will donate tickets to special 
"Block Party Weekends" is a new station program that plays three songs in a row by the same artists. According to Reed, this has significantly "boosted the reputation of the station." 
In an attempt to communicate more personally with all of their listeners, WAOR fre­quently takes the station on lo­cation to community events or grand openings of businesses. The popular, full time DJs broadcast live from these loca­tions. 
By combining great rock and roll with a unique personal touch, WAOR has apparently found a good formula for sue­cess. 



\ 
~ 
,, 
IIl 
~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~--------~·· 

UNNY 
101. 
FM 
ANGEL FARAH 
accent writer 
I 
n this day and age people are looking for variety in their lis­tening experience. Along with a desire to please, popular demand and competitive forces are two factors that drive Mishawaka's ZIP 104 radio station to fulfill these expectations of its listeners. 
Disk Jockey Steve O'Brien, who is the current music direc­tor, believes that it is important to "keep in touch with what is going on in the listener's mind." O'Brien says ZIP 104 relies on the basic format of CHR (Contemporary Hit Radio) to satisfy its "selective audience," which is concentrated between the 18 to 34 age group, or as O'Brien puts it, "the post-baby­boomers." 
ZIP 104 's song list would be best described as a Top 40 conglomeration, attracting the teenager, young adult, and the average married couple under 36. 
Contest give-aways center around the radio's main prod­uct-music. One such contest give-away is-the free music weekend, during which time COs, cassettes, and stereos are given away. Another popular prize give-away is the Club Card Promo, which gives those listeners possessing a Club Card a chance to win prizes valued at $250 if their number is called over the radio. 

Although promos and con­tests are common among most radio stations, O'Brien stresses that there "is a difference" be­tween ZIP 104 and other radio stations. In order to attract more listr:ners and retain pre­sent ones. O'Brien says "It is important to build a better product." ZIP 104 accomplishes this task through a "consistent product," says O'Brien, who compares the station's success to that of a Me Donalds. "When you get a cheeseburger at Me Donalds, you know it will be the same every time." That is how ZIP 104 operates. Their listen­ers know what to expect. 
O'Brien says that there seems to be "a lot of hype" about the ranking of radio stations. It is not the aim of ZIP 104 to get every listener out there, but rather to focus on the desires of its selective audience. 
Some of the ways ZIP 104 ac­complishes the task of getting in touch with its audience is through surveys and live broadcasts. 
O'Brien describes the objec­tive of this radio station as "serving, entertaining, and in­forming its listeners." 
One advantage of this service is advertising at an affordable rate. "Radio can reach a thou­sand people cheaper that any other form of media," says O'Brien. That advantage is part of what ZIP 104 is all about. 
page 13 


~ South Bend's Radio Stations 

ELIZABETH VIDA 
accent writer 

A 
!though South Bend has two top 40 radio stations and one hard rock 
station, sometimes 
the need arises for a variety of 
music: something you can listen 
to while studying or relaxing 
without getting sick of repiti­
tion. 

Sunny 101.5 fulfils that need by providing a mixture of songs. In the words of Doug Hawkes, program director for Sunny 101.5, the music is a golden mixture of both the best of the old and the new. In more technical radio lingo, it's pro­gramming is adult contempo­rary, with a large bulk of the audience between the ages of 25 and 39. Yet this is no Barry Manilow or Neil Diamond marathon station, nor is an air wave playing heavy metal or rap. Sunny 101.5's format, in­stead, ranges from the Beatles to Heart to Billy Joel to Mariah Carey to Elton John. 
Along with its regular music, 
Sunny 101.5 also showcases four special programs. Every weekday there's the popular "Lunchtime Gold" with Jack Re­ichert. From 12-1 p.m. classic rock and great oldies are sent out over the airwaves. For five minutes during that hour, usu­ally 12:20-12:25, Reichert tests his audience's knowledge of rock trivia. In "Name that Lunchtime Gold". he plays the first few seconds or notes of an oldies song and the right caller {#12, for example) with the correct answer wins a prize. "The show is a lot of fun. Jack 
is a hometown boy, so he has a great knowledge of the city,"commented Hawkes. "The show has a lot of audience participation, and Jack loves requests. He really tries to thoroughly research all his rare requests." 
On Saturday evening from 7 to 11 p.m. there's "Super Gold" with Mike Tanner. Broadcast live from the West Coast, it presents a national phone-in request program. Sunday evening there are a couple of programs to listen to while 
FM 
studying at the 'brare. From 6­9 p.m .. it's "Cruisin' America" with Cousin ·Brucie, and at 9 until 12 a.m., "Live from the Sixties" with the Real Don Steel. "Live from the Sixties" usually highlights one particular year in the decade and then plays all the great songs of that year-and not just the major hits. He doesn't play "Born to be Wild" and "Light My Fire" every hour like other sixties rock programs tend to do. Obscure songs and novelty songs are also given their fair share of the program. Don Steel also tries to make the listener feel as if they're back in time, with facts and trivia from the particular year. 
"We try to have a whole bunch of little things going on at the same time, instead of one big promotion." Hawkes com­mented. "Actually," he contin­ued, "our ratings have been pretty good of late. We like having a lot of audience partic­ipation and we're glad that we've developed a great audi­ence. And we're, of course, very happy to be in the hometown of University of Notre Dame." 


JOHN FISCHER 
accent writer 
U 
93 is no longer a Top 40 station. 
Before the 
fans of Mark 
Durocher, Nicky 93, and the like rush to change 
their dials to another station 
that plays the hot hits of today, 
it must be made clear that U93 
has not changed its format, simply the title of the format. 
"Top 40" has become passe in radio circles; the correct name is contemporary hit radio, or CHR. according to Jack Swart. the Radio Manager of WNDU 93. 
The station is currently enjoy­ing a run as the top-rated radio station in the overall area as well as in several key demo­graphic groups. Arbitron, the ratings system U93 subscribes to, rates them number one in the 18-49 age group, with a 
17.7 share of the audience, and also number one in the 18-34 group with a 19.5 share. 

These numbers are based on the average percentage of lis­teners tuned in to U93 during the hours of 6 a.m. to midnight, seven days a week. Swart says there are a number of rea­sons the station is so successful. 
First among these is the i.ype of music the station plays. The playlist is selected by the pro­gram and music directors, who are influenced by requests from listeners and from sales in local record stores. The biggest hits are placed on the playlist in heavy rotation for a period of 12 to 13 weeks, at which time their rotation is diminished. A song is taken off the playlist anytime from one to one and a half years after its first ap­pearance. 
Because of the various tastes of its listeners. the station plays various styles of pop, including soul. hard rock, and rap, if it has crossover appeal. 
The popularity of certain disc jockeys also contributes to the 
station's success. According to U93's overall strategy, the more high profile, energetic DJs are featured during the morning and afternoon driving time. The morning show, headed by Durocher, also boasts a stable of popular characters in a comic format. 
Special programming on weekends includes Rick Dees' Weekly Top 40 on Saturday mornings, and America's Top 40 on Sunday mornings, as well as Sunday evening's Hitline, a syndicated call-in show featur­ing various artists. 
Perhaps the main factor that leaves U93 fans glued to their stereos, however, is the exten­sive call-in giveaway program the station utilizes. Both inde­pendently and in conjunction with sponsors, U93 gives away South Bend Sox tickets, concert tickets, and restaurant gift cer­tificates, as well as larger prizes such as trips, stereo sys­tems, and merchants' giveaway packages. Recent promotions included the $10,000 Key Song 

and the Endless Summer fea­
tures. 

WNDU is affiliated with the University and expresses this by following university policy on such things as the advertising it accepts for airplay. Swart says the station wishes to "reflect the same basic message as that of the University." The station promotes itself mostly through advertising on TV's Channel16, and through billboards in the area. 
As to the competition pro­vided them by similar stations such as ZIP 104, Swart replies that U93 was the first station of its format in this area, and that gives it an advantage over the others. He states that U93's flow of air talent is stronger and that they are in touch with the community better than any of their competition. 
With the air of one in com­mand of the situation, he says simply, "We just keep beating them." 
page 14 The Obse;ve. Friday, September 7, 1990 
U Need 2 Michigan GAs NEED: 2 Michigan GAs or 1 stud NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS 1!11!! I Need 2 Miami GAs. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE How about a trade?
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Hey!! We still need Michigan Top Dollar Paid 
Class GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT Call Bryan at 2266 tickets. x4189 Molly 
Big Bucks CALL KEVIN X1589 
284-4350 Name Your Price 
continued from page 16 

DESPERATE!!!!!!! I have stud. and G.A. tickets to all 
Wealthy Uncle HELP! I NEED TWO TIX FOR I want to buy 2 Stanford GAs. I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! home games 
Call Cory, x2718. Call X 1244 THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ I need 10, that's right 10 GREAT DEAL! MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR If any of these phrases catches 
6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs -your eye, please call 
CALL GUY AT X1750 I am looking to trade Miami tix (student or GA's) I need Michigan tickets 
other offers welcome Andrew @ 1563 
4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If Every ticket helps. Family coming 2 student
x2630 HELP NEED TKTS All GAME interested, call to see game. 2GA 
~-----------------------------------­

BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Hugh at 233-6740. Call Bryan at 2266 Call Jill289-8915
Need 1 Michigan stud. Please call Peter x1802 CALL273-1364 see CLASS I page 9 
Have 2 USC -nt!ed 2 Miami GA Also any home game $$$$$$ Terri x4837 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX... ........ WAY BAD!!!! 233-7440. PAUL. 
WANTED One set of season stJdent tickets . Will pay for tickets plus $100.00 to you. Call Clint at 289-4914. 
NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings 
HELP!!! !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN GA'S! WILL PAY BIG$ CALL JOY X4856 
Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x2110 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket to Michigan. Call Matt at x1089. 
NEED GA TIX FOR All HOME GAMES. CALL CHRIS X1067 
$$$$$$$$$ ND Alum needs 4 Stanford GAs. Will pay $$$! Call Jim Kirker collect 203-889-3738 $$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE!! NEED 1 OR 2 GA FOR B-DAY GIFT-PENN ST. MEG#3850 
!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I'm willing to trade ANY TWO senior stud. tickets for just ONE miami stud.ticket or I'll pay cash. Call 288-4077 between 8&10:30pm 
Mich. StudTix needed. You need big cash. let's talk. Dan x1188. Urgent! 
HELP!! DE$PERATELY NEED MICH. STUD'S & GA'S. PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273 -9338 
I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 
NEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX FOR MICH JOHN x1384 
Need 2 Purdue GA's. x3566 
$ $ $ NEED 2 stud. tix for MICH. game­Dan 289-1015 
Need a MIAMI ticket? I need MICHIGAN. lets swap! x2601 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
looking for two G.A. tickets for the Purdue v. N.D. game please call Greg at #1594 
WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX 1 MIAMI STUD TIC Stephanie @ 4322 


MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS WANTED!!! DENVER AlYM NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT 
C'ESTBON.
(303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR 

Russell Athletic Cardigans always translate into agreat fashion statement. And if you identify this PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL239­
famous face and the two others from our newspaper campaign, that could 
---­
3982. 

translate into a $1,000 scholarship for next semester from Russell Athletic.* ---­
42 
~-­

NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS ~­
Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. .......................~ 
·-~·'WI«·....,_.
_.._,.,.... .......... ,....,
GA's or STUDS 

CALL DAN@ X1795 *Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

Friday, September 7, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Replacing the 'old Lie' with a new lie 
Father Robert Griffin 
COME JOIN THE FUN! 
ODAY! AFORTUNE TUDENT CENTER 
PEN HOUSE 1am-4pm 
Be entertained by TIM SETTIMI. Participate in FUN FLICKS: Totally interactive video. Make your own movie or music video for fre~ with this mobile movie studio. 
Enjoy the magic of KEVIN WILSON. Have a caricature made by DAMIAN SHINER. Pick up unique give-away items. Hear WVFI. 
Learn about student organizations housed in LaFortune. Enjoy free samples of Soho Soda and Haagen Dazs at the HUDDLE. Get free samples of shampoo and conditioner at the HAIRSTLYIST. 
The COUNTRY HARVESTER will have free samples and door prizes. THE COPY SHOP will give away 10 gift certificates for 50 copies. 'rhe GORCH GAME ROOM will provide free pool all day and free video 
games from 12noon to lpm. SOCIETY BANK will have refreshments. 

Shortly before being killed in action in 1918, the English war hero Wilfred Owen finished an anti-war poem which was as truthful as a poem can be: "If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood/Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs/Obscene as cancer.../My friend, you would not tell with such high zesVfo children ar­dent for some desperate glory/fhe old lie: Dulce et decorum est/Pre patria mori." 
The "old Lie" began with Homer, writing in the Illiad: "A glorious death is his/Who for his country falls. "Homer prob­ably didn't believe it was a lie, or he wouldn't have written it. Hemingway was so contemptu­ous of the "old Lie" that he tried to destroy the myth: "They wrote in the old days that it is sweet and fitting to die for one's country. But in modern war there is nothing sweet nor fitting in your dying. You will die like a dog for no good rea­son." 
Has Hemingway replaced one "old Lie" with another lie when he says, "You will die like a dog for no good reason"? Are you willing to believe that all the 
G.I. Joes who fell in battle on their way to liberating Hitler's death camps died in vain? What if the poet Yeats, who wrote "The Second Coming," turns out to be prophetic, as though he had foresight about the events now unfolding in the Persion Gulf. "Surely the Second Coming. is a Hand/ ...somewhere in sands of the deserVA shape with lion body traordinary collection of talent, of human knowledge, that has ever been gathered together at the White House-with the pos­sible exception of when Thomas Jefferson dined alone." 
Nevertheless, O'Connor be­comes the Supreme Court jus­tice because that's the way the cookie must crumble in this age of women's lib. Jefferson, the genius, is left to mediate on Ecclesiastes: "The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all." 
A university committed to coeducation has to put its money where its mouth is in making the appointments that give minorities their place in the sun; frankly, the appoint­ments tend to be a breath of fresh air. It would be churlish for the goats in the talent pool to be a jealous of the sheep gathered at the right hand of the Father Almight. The Miltons, bucking for promotion, have no choice but to remain mute, glorious, and untenured; and the Cromwells, hoping to make heads roll as academic deans, stay guiltless of their colleagues' blood. 
Are there jobs in the groves of academe-like that of dragon-slayer or head football coach-that you must be a member of an inner circle-like the knights of the Round Table-to apply for? Indubitably. If the time came when men and women were equally eligible to serve as king or queen for a day, we could celebrate the "Year of Being Human," so we could all feel good about ourselves as people not conscious of each other as members of a minority group in need of stroking. I'll be joining a minority group of my own very soon: as a senior citizen I'll hear Time's winged chariot hurrying near. As a priest, I'm the member of a minority group that's considered spoiled. The truth is that today priests must stay on the defensive to keep their self-respect. 

I'm so happy to celebrate the "Year of Woman." I hope the time will not be taken up with pope-bashing. Women, I'm willing to agree, have a right to control their own bodies. That 
Has Hemingway replaced one "old Lie" with another lie when he says, "You will die like a dog for no good reason." 
doesn't mean they have a right to abort babies taking up space in their wombs like a house guest, for those innocents didn't invite themselves to life's feast. Is it sexist of me to say this? I'm ready and willing to be sensitive to any issue the women want me to be sensitive to, as long as it's "dulce et decorum est,' and not a lie. It's not only cowgirls who get the blues; when the bell tolls, it tolls for all of us. 
Letters to a Lonely God 
and the head of a man/A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun/Is moving its slow thighs/while all about iVReel shadows of the indignant desert birds.!fhe darkness drops again; but now I knowffhat twenty centuries of stony sleep/Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cra­dle/And what rough beast, its hour come round at lasVSlouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" 
If the scenario in the Middle­East is being written for Armageddon, should lads "ardent for some desperate glory" retire to a neutral corner. while the battles are being fought for the soul of mankind? Maybe there's a mid­dle ground between the "old Lie" that says it's sweet and proper to die for the father­land, and Hemingway's cyni­cism, "You will die like a dog for no reason." Christianity tells us that the greatest love one can possess is the act of laying down his live for his friend. Arlington Cemetery would be a national embar­rassment if we conclud that all the great sacrificies of the war dead were made "for no good reason." We should be able to agree among ourselves that war is hell without replacing "the old lie" with Hemingway's half-truth. 


At Notre Dame, celebreating "Year of Women," we should be able to spend time dispelling the myth that men are superior without replacing it with an­other myth. Eliot's Becket told us that the last temptation is the greatest treason: "to do the right deed for the wrong reason." We shouldn't be tempted to think that Notre Dame owes the ladies the "Year ofWomen", because "every year so far has been the year of men". Even in the real world, it isn't true to say that white males always have their back­sides in a tub of butter. The real truth is that in this genera­tion of emerging minorities, men are taking turns with the women in being the underdogs. 
How could it be otherwise? If the President decides that the politics of liberation mandate him to appoint a woman to the Supreme Court, Sandra Day O'Connor's stand-in will be nominated to fill the vacancy, even if Thomas Jefferson is waiting in the wings. Sandra Day O'Connor's stand-in may be an inspiried choice, gifted in doing her job well, and everyone will applaud the President's choice. Jefferson may be de­serving of President Kennedy's high praise at a dinner for the American Nobel Prize winners: "I think this is the most ex­

The Observer Friday, September 7, 1990
page 16 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is _3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
Patties is now hiring part-time 
ENGINEERING CALCULATORS! MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED!!!!!! Need five GA's for Michigan game. I NEED MICH STUDENT TIXhelp.Kitchen,cashier,ice 
1 yr. old HP-285,$150, or HP-Will pay top dollar. Call Mark WILL PAY BIG BUCKScream. Flexible hours.We can 
' NOTICES 41CX,$125, with original box. Both Mom, Dad, and bro. have never x1576. CALL DAN 234-8608
adjust our schedule to yours. Call 
include all manuals. Very powerful, been to an NO game.
TYPING AVAILABLE 255-5525. 

machines!! Call 289-8020. STUD. Need five GA's for Michigan game. 
287-4082 

TIX ALSO!! WILL HAGGLE. 2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. NEED MICH GA'S will help keep them from WILL PAY TOP $3D Ft. Blue & Gold advertising MICHIGAN TICKETSIIIIIIII 
watching~ on t.v. Need five GA's for Michigan game. CALL PAT 234-8608 Balloon for rent. Custom 
Crib W/Matr, Drsng Tbl, $80 Will pay top dollar. Call Paul x1755. 
messages. Signs & Banners for 2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket 
277-7406 272-8954 Amy Razz
your organization. 272-7770! needed. 

THIS IS NO JOKE. DAD NEEDS 2 NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD MIAMI STUD OR GA TIX LIKE HE
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ NEEDS TO BREATHE-CALL MIKEFELLOWSHIP MICHIGAN still has maid service. CALL BARB X4419 X1750 TO MAKE THAT DOWN NEED 1 STUD. TICKET FOR Let us curse them. Need mucho PAYMENT ON YOUR NEW CAR.
I TICKETS
1. Lerge Group Meeting PURDUEIII CALL KEN X-1078 stud. tixl x1160 NEED STUD. TIX : ALL HOMEWhen? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm) GAMES.$$ WILL BEAT ANYWhere? 427 Stanford ·cABLE T.V." 
Help!! I Looking for Michigan OFFER $$ I CALL JIM $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
2. Welcome Picnic NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. tickets (GAs and Student) 273-1377. NEED AS MANY MICHIGAN GA'S 
When? Sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) • SALES REPS WANTED CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­
Please call John or Regina AS I CAN GET. WILL PAY ALOT.
Main Circle @ 2:30pm 297-2192. 
258-0809 $$$ WILL TAKE SNGLS,DBLS,TRPLS,Where? Potawatomi Park • 3 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. ETC. CALL DAN X3419
Food& Rides HELP!!!I 
Please help me recruit little CALL MARY 273-1377 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Parents' first and last chance ALL ARE WELCOME • GREAT PT. TIME HOURS brother. I need Penn St GA & 
Questions? Call Sean@ x1910 to see an NO football game. 
Stud tix. Call John C. @ x1622 DESPERATEL Y SEEKING Desperately need 2 GA's and one• $400-$600 WEEKLY I need 3 Mich. tix (Stud or GA). STANFORD GAME TIX :.1udent ticket for MICHIGAN. 

Need 2 GA for Mich. and 4 for A.F. Don x1788. 
for use by my nubile young sister 

please call AMY (A.) 272-8954 who's coming to town. 
·cAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Call Kevin 273-1906 Call Alison at 4011GRADUATE STUDENTS ! I CALL FOR INTERVIEW TOP $for 2 Miami GA's I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE AT X4022 HAVE 2 MICH. G/'.'S. 
FACULTY II BETWEEN 10-12 NOON. MATI 
STAFF!! FRIENDSHUH 237-0691 Call Beth at 288-0597 or WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S.
Grad-Faculty-Staff Social BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! 
Art at 277-9203 NEED 1 MICH TICKET -PURDY CALL MARK 212-595-0275. 
This Friday, September 7 EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE 
$$$$$$$$ PLSX2172

5:00 prn to 9:00 prn Student tickets needed for 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3­Alumni-Senior Club Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and 
I need 2 Student Michigan MONTHOLD. WANTED: Have TWO MICHIGAN tickets!!!!!
Air Force. 
TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5. 
GA's to trade for TWO MIAMI GA's. $$$$$$$$$$$$ OUR HOME Will also negotiate. PLEASE Call Anne
Call Beth at 288-0597 (BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER at 288 0597
Used Textbooks! ALSO NEEDED: Five AIR FORCE 
MONTH. CALL 259-6006. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
25% OFF LIST PRICE Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need 
WE NEED MICH AND MIAMI GA's and 1 ST. 
Need 2 Miami GA's

Pandora's Books PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­
Need used psych STUDENT AND GA TICKETS TOM X3697 Call Matt x3630 
corner of NO ave. and Howard 1934, Bill. 
books:personality & cognition CALL ALLISON OR ANNE,2732 NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & 
233-2342 

#2894 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Okay, any student tickets for long lost WEAL THY uncle TRADE. LUKE X1213 Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, Typing 287-34 72 Scotty please call Paige at x2980. This is 
Need two MIAMI tickets for MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO 
Badminton Partner Needed MICH TICKETS NEEDED serious.
Pickup & Delivery I NEED TICKETS 
Call Kathv x3232 2STUD, 1 GA 
277-7406 TICKETS NEEDED!!!! I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER
PlEASE CALL TERESA X2975 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN WATCH THE GAMES ON TV 
2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket WILL BUY WHOLE SETS for Air Force CALL X 1167 
I 

FORRENT 
NEED 2 MICH. TIX! 

273-9469 Diane
L-L_o_s_T_IFO__u_N_o

........J 3 ROOM APTS.• 2 PEOPLE PER SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS 
desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: 

APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES 
$$$$$$$$$$$
FOUND: Watch near Library early Mike, 273-9468
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­
Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to 
1014. 

Need student tickets for Penn Need 2 Miami Stud TIX
10. 

.state, Miami, and Michigan. Will Pay Big Bucks
719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 
.JUill pay outrageous prices. x 1416 Brett 

LOST: BLUE NO FIESTA BOWL 

BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM 
Gall Dan x1126.
HANDBAG AT MICHIANA 

CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. 
AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL 

BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING 
'"$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED:
TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 

ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. 
234-4961. 
G.A'S OR STUD. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Wanted 
I AU.. TICKETS 
Studenla Of General Adrrisalon in any secllon Call Chuck ooliecl (716) 265-0490 8 am-5:30pm and anytime Sat. & Sun. 
CALL x3771 or x3791 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
H E L P!ll 
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS PAYING TOP$$$$$ CALL JEFF@277-3998 

SCREENED IN POACH. 277-4469 Need 4 Michigan GA's; will take
1 AIR FORCE G.A.

MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU Need $$$?Sell 
RHONDA. single tix or pairs: call at 2786 
HAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE 

your ga's to all NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI,
2 MIAMI G.A.'S
CALL ME. 

PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME home games. PURDUE,MICHIGAN,
Needed desparately, 4 Stanford 
WALK TO NO 6838889 Call tom x1597. STANFORD, OR PENN STATE.
CALL MIKE x1581 GA's and 3 Stud tix. Also need
OR2876389 PLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. 
Miami Tix. Big Bucks!!! Call Jon $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$LOST: WILL BEAT ANY PRICE!!!!!!!!! Paul at x4115.
3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC 

FURNISHED APT. LIKE ROOMS, WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN
I NEED 2 MICH. GA'SON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR 
PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN
NAME YOUR PRICE!!! need tickets for (ANY OR ALL): 
TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF 

MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. GA'S CALL TOM X1441
#3501 2 Mich GA's , 1 A. F. stud H E L P!!l!!!!!ll!l!!!ll!!l My Cl'2 f;;;; ..
YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW 
272-0615. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ and 1 or 2 Mich stud. Arizona is coming to the 
ANYTHING!!!II!I X4090 OR X4049 

Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY HEY YOU!!
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME NAME YOUR PRICE!!!!!!! X1187 any ticket. Call Mary 219-291-7153. 
GAMES.272-6306 
at x1292. 
PLEASE HELP!!
HELP!! HELP!! HELP!! HELP!! 

A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., Need 3 GA's for 3 Beautiful Need 1 student Penn State ticket 
NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT WOMEN for Air Force Football for a future Domer. Please call Pat
LOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN
X2088 Game. CaiiJoeatX1817. at 273-9367.
SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 GAME. CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY NOTRE DAME PHD STUDENT AT 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., 
Need 1 Michigan GA 
TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. TURTLE CREEK E. LOOKS FOR CALL X2819
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT PLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEA 
call Pat 289-5542 PLEASE CALL 234-9648. A ROOMATE TO SHARE A 2­
X2088 SE 1need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
BEOA. APT. CALL JAMES 273­1 to 3 PENN ST stud tix needed ­
NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD Susan x3141 GA'S! CALL DAN@ X1179 
DID YOU FIND A SET OF KEYS 1627. Parents will take back tuition 
if I don't come through!!!!!!!!

WHILE WAITING FOR SOPH. Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's for 4 AIR Call Mike X3506 
FOOTBALL TIX? CALL JASON AT FORCE GA's. Call x1363. For Sale 
1397. TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE Need 1 Student ticket WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
PLEASE HELP ME !!!!! INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM for Michigan game WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 513-677-8106. 
Call Mike at 4048
19" COLOR TV, TWO COLL:1-312-745-7210.
Found: A set of keys, containing SEMESTERS $110, ONE
GM and room keys, behind Please sell me your tickets!!!! You can save a marriage, sell me I desperately need a Michigan 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX 
Flanner Hall9/5. Call1749 to your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. 
ticket. My roommate is going to
SEMESTERS $110, ONE $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ 
claim. Call Cathy at 273-9624. 
Rome and this will be her last SEMESTER $80. 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) football game for a whole year.

COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S ATLOST-green Navy seabag. 
$$$$$ Call Lisa or Kara at X2761
5959. ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 
Left behind bookstore 8126. YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's CALL MATI X 2984 Contains clothes.etc. Please AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! 
HELP! This means YOU. I need MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$2 FRIDGES 4 SALE
call Bart X3285. LErs DEAL! Ron x3504 I NEED TO TRADE 2 MICHIGAN two GA's for Miami game. Will pay DEBBIE x2982$40.00 EACH GA's for 2 MIAMI GA's. Call $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or 259-3268 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 SHANNON at x2171. 
hotel reservations for any game. 
I need 2 Michigan GA's for

LOST-Green Navy seabag. STUDENT TICKET FOR Amy 1289. 
my Mom + Dad's 34th weddingBIANCHI12SPEED 19" bike.

Left behind the bookstore on MIAMI GAME. Call Christine I NEED MICH. GA's OR STUD TIX 8126. Contains clothes,etc. lightweight, like new, was x4380 Name your terms! 277-0253 anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 
I need 4 Michigan GA's. Will 277-4838$350, now $260 or best offer. 
Please call Bart x3285 

pay big cash. x41 89 Andi
258-0752. 

NEED 2 GA FOR PURDUE, I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ 
WILL PAY CASH for 1 student or

STANFORD, AF, MIAMI.CALL I need 2 GA's for EVERY home 
I need MICH stud tix. Will pay GA Air Force tick X1187 
.. FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIX! DAVEX1407 game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! $$$. Call Bill x1583 PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE 
ZENITH PC--51/4 & 3 1/2 PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD HELP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. 
DELl IN LAFORTUNE TO 

DISK, COLOR MONITOR, EPSON SON 0~' CORPORATE CEO tickets for hometown buddies 
IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET. Need 1 student ticket for Mich. and NEEDS
FX-85 PRINTER. $1,000 OR BEST driving all the way up from 
3forMiami NEED 1 MICH. Tix 
OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX 1-2 STUD TIX-MIAMI OR MICH S.C. Call Caroline at x3838.
$$$$$$ Call Dave 1 862 AARON x2384 x2352 
#4501.

AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO 
LOST: BOX OF BOOKS WITH I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TICKETS!! !I $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ##################### Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG!
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S GAORSTUD. NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX WANTED: MANY PENN STATE Please call Kathy 277-9406 or20$ REWARD FOR RETURN. FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE CHRIS 273-9355 $$$$$$$ HAVE CASH #2936 AND 2 AIRFORCE STUD TIX -­Mike 273-9471. 
CALL AIMEE X3720. NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 
1364 ##################### NEED 1 or 2 Miami GA orNEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS student tix.Name your price ..

Lost: brown, plastic glasses. $$$$$$JULIE X2569 NEED 2 Mlr.l-l TIVIII .,.,..., nAo:;') call x 3285 
COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE CALL 273-1364 Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade AF and up to 5 Tix for ROYAL ORDER: Wanted Penn State or Air Force. Also STANFORD or PURDUE/ #3191 Hear ye! Hear yel 
Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 Mike needs 1 stud. ticket for My poor friends never went to
will to pay big $. Call Jim at The Queen o' the Irish an Irish game. Please sell me
x1723 Requires 4 Miami Tickets your Mich. student tix! Joni FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED 
SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK FOR SALE: 2 OCTOGAN SOLID NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. For Her Royal Court 1839All Willing to Answer 
STORAGE SPACE-$30 EA. OR Help! I NEED 2-4 PURDUE Her Highness' Plea WANTED-TIX $50 FOR BOTH: EXERCYCLE TICKETS!WILL PAY BUCKS!! HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's Please Contact Treven X4503 MIA-N.D. GAME $40; ROLLAWAY BED, $40. CALL (GA's) call #3490!1 WILL TRADE FOR 2 TENN ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs CALL 800-323-7687 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR 2 MIAMI GA's x3652 
APTS. 273-9406. MAPLE END TABLES WITH CALLX4045 
see CLASS I page 14 

Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 17 

BASEBALL SJANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division w L Pet (J! L10 Streak Boston 76 .559 Lost3
60 Z·7·3 Toronto 71 66 .5t8 5t12 5·5 Won 1 Detroit 66 72 .478 tt 6-4 
Lost 2 Milwaukee 64 72 .471 12 Z·6·4 
Wont Cleveland 61 76 .445 t5t12 2·8 Wont Baltimore 60 .444
75 t5t12 t·9 Lost 6 New York 57 78 .422 t8 t12 Z·5-5 
Wont 
West Division 
w L Pet (J! L10 Streak Oakland 
86 50 .632 7-3 Won4 Chicago 79 56 .585 6tl2 6·4 
Won3 Texas 70 67 .5tt t6 t/2 4·6 Won2 California 
68 68 .500 t8 z-7·3 Lost 1 Seattle 68 69 .496 18 112 6·4 Won3 Kansas City 66 71 .482 20 112 2·8 Lost4 Minnesota 63 75 .457 24 z-6·4 Lost 1 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w L Pet (J! L10 Streak Pittsburgh 81 .591 Won6
56 7-3 New York 77 59 .566 3112 Z·6·4 Lost 4 Montreal 71 .522 5-5
65 9112 Lost 1 Chicago 64 72 .471 16112 z-4·6 
Wont Philadelphia 63 .463
73 17tl2 4-6 Lost 1 St. Louis 62 75 .453 19 4-6 
Wont 
West DiviSion 
w L Pet (J! LID Streak Cincinnati 
78 58 .574 Z·5·5 Lost 1 
Los Angeles 71 65 .522 7 z-5·5 Lost3 TRANSACTIONS U.S. OPEN 
San Francisco 70 67 .511 8112 4·6 Won 1 San Diego 62 73 .459 t5 t12 z-3-7 Won 1 Doubles
BASEBALL Results Thursday of the $6.35 million U.S. Open
Houston 62 .456 Lost 1 Quarterfinals
74 16 z-7-3 
National League tennis tournament held at the USTA National Atlanta 56 80 .412 22 Z·8·2 Won6 
Sabastian LeBlanc and Greg Rusedski. Canada,ST. LOUIS CARDINAL&-Activated Bryn Smrth, Tennis Canter (seedtngs In parentheses): del. Robert Janecek (2), and Daniel Nestor,z-denotes first game was a win 
pitcher. from the 15-day disabled list. Men 
Canada. 7·5, 6-1. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTs-Activated Trevor Singles
AMERICAN LEAGUE Martin Renstroem (1 ), and Mikael Tillstrom, 
Wilson, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. Quarterfinals
Wed.-day's Games Sweden, del. Michael Joyce, Los Angeles, and
Boris Becker (2), West Germany, del. Aaron Vincent Spadea, Boca Raton. Fla., 6-4, 6·2. 

New York 2. California 1 

BASKETBALL Krickstein (9), Grosse Pointe, Mich., 3-6, 6-3, 6·2,Oakland 10. Boston 0 Natlonel Basketball Association 6-3. Vimal Patel, Owensboro. Ky., and Mike Sell. Toronto 7, Detroit 3 CLEVELAND CAVAUER&-Matched the Miami Andre Agassi (4), Las Vegas. del. Andrei Moorestown. N.J., del. Tamer Ahmed El Sawy. 
Chicago 3, Kansas City 0 Heat's offer sheet to John Williams, forward. on a Cherkasov, Soviet Union. 6-2, 6-2, 6-3. Egypt, and Kevin Ullyett, South Africa, default. Milwaukee 7, Minnesota 4 Jon Leach, Laguna Beach, Calif., and David Witt 
seven-year contract. Doubles Texas 3, Cleveland 2 Jacksonville Beach, Fla., del. Adam Peterson,
DENVER NUGGET&-Fired Doug Moe. coach. Semlffnals Seattle 9, Baltimore 5 Pieter Aldrich and Dania Visser, South Africa (2). Orange, Cain .• and Chris Woodruff. Knoxville, Thursday's Games FOOTBALL del. Brian Garrow, Los Altos Hills, Calif, and Sven Tenn.. 6·1, 6·3. 
Late Game Not Included 
National Football League Salumaa. Huntington N.Y., 4-6, 7·6 (7-5), 3·6, 7-6 Cleveland 6, Detroit 0, 5 innings, rain Gits
CINCINNATI BENGAL&-Piaced Reggie Rembert, (7-2). 6-2. Texas 12, Kansas City 1 wide receiver. on injured reserve. Waived Richard Paul Annacone, East Hampton, N.Y., and David Singles 
California at New York, (n) 

Carey. cornerback. Re-signed Mike Barber, wide Wheaton, Excelsior. Minn., del. Patrick Galbraith, Third Round Only games scheduled Louise Stacey, Australia. del. Miriam Oremans 
receiver. Activated Lewis Billups, cornerback. Tacoma, Wash., and Kelly Jones, San Diego, 7·6 Friday's Games (11), Nethertands, 6·0 7-6 (7-5). 
DALLAS COWBOY&-Piaced Kenneth Gant, (7·3), 7-6 (7-2). 6-7 (2·7), 7-6 (8-6). Oakland (Moore 12·12) at New York (Hawkins 5-11), 7:30p.m. Noelle Van Lottum (5), France. del. Nathalie 
cornerback, on injured reserve. Re-signed Derrick California (Grahe 1·2) at Baltimore (McDonald 5-4), 7:35p.m. Baudone (12), Italy, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1.
Shepard, wide receiver. Women 
Seattle (Swan 2·2) at Boston (Boddicker 14·8). 7:35p.m. Barbara Rittner (9), West Germany, del. Silvia
DETROIT LION&-Agreed to terms with Eric Doubles Chicago (M.Perez 12-12) at Toronto (T.Stottlemyre 12-14), 7:35p.m. Farina (7), Italy, 6-1,6-4.
Williams, defensive lineman. Quarterfinals 
Cleveland (Black 10-9) at Minnesota (Anderson 6·17), 8:05p.m. Shi-Ting Wang (16), Taipei, del. Karina
HOUSTON OILER&-Piaced Dee Thomas, Larisa Savchenko and Natalia Zvereva (3), Detrort (Morris 11-16) at Milwaukee (Higuera 9·6), 8:35p.m. Habsudova (2), Czechoslovakia, 3-6, 7 ·5, 6·3. 
defensive back, on injured reserve. Re-signed Don Soviet Union, del. Natalia Medvedeva and Leila Kansas City (Gordon 10-9) at Texas (Hough 10·10), 8:35p.m. Sofie Albinus (13), Key Biscayne, Fla., del. Kristin
McPherson. quarterback. Meskhi (14), Soviet Union, 6·3, 6·7 (5-7), 6·3. Saturday's Games Godridge (3), Australia, 4-6, 6-4. 7-5. Cleveland at Minnesota. noon Luanne Spadea (10), Boca Raton, Fla., del.
Canadian Football League Senior Men Seattle at Boston, 1:05 p.m. Patricia Miller, Uruguay, 6-1, 6-2.
CALGARY STAMPOER&-Activated Albert SinglesChicago at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. Thomas. defensive back; Mike Palumbo, offensive Quarterfinals Magdalena Maleeva (1), Bulgaria. del. Lisa Oakland at New York, 7:30 p.m. lineman; Rick Worman, quarterback; and Luigi Hank Plister (1), Bakersfield, Calif., del. llie Pugliese, Boca Raton, Fla., 6·0, 6-1. 
Calnomia at Baltimore, 7:35p.m. Kirrily Sharpe (4), Australia. del. Paloma
Caiazzo. defensive lineman. Placed Harald Nastase, Romania, 6-1, 6·3. 
Detroit at Milwaukee. 8:35p.m. Collantes, Spain, 6·t, 6-2.
Hasselbach, defensive line. and Moustafa Ali, Peter Fleming, New York, del. Cliff Richey, San Kansas City at Texas, 8:35p.m. Doubles
defensive back. on the practice roster. Released Angelo. Texas. 6-3, 6-4. 
Sunday's Games Quarterfinals
Brian Hutchings, offensive lineman. Tom Gullickson (2), Palm Coast, Fla., del. Dick Seattle at Boston. 1:05 p.m. Nathalie Baudone (2). and Silvia Farina, Italy,
EDMONTON ESKIMO&-Activated Steve Taylor, Stockton. Dallas, defautt. Oakland at New York, 1 :30 p.m. del. Michelle Jackson. Palm Beach Gardens. Fla.,
quarterback, and Chris Johnstone, running back. Alex Mayer (3), Los Altos, Cain., del Paul Calnornia at Baltimore. 1:35 p.m. and Keri Phebus, Larchmont, N.Y., 6-4, 6-2.
Placed Warren Jones, quarterback, and Reggie McNamee. Australia, 6·1, 6-4. Ch1cago at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. Erika deLone (5), Lincoln. Mass.. and Lisa
Taylor, running back, on the reserve list. Doubles Cleveland at Minnesota, 2:15 p.m. Raymond, Wayne, Pa., del. Patricia Miller, 
HAMIL TON TIGER-CATs-Placed Carl Parker. FiniiRound Detroit at Milwaukee. 2:35p.m. wide receiver, on the practice roster. Mark Edmondson (2). Australia. and Sherwood Uruguay, and Louise Stacey, Australia, 7·6 (7-3), Kansas City at Texas, 3:05p.m. 6·3.
TORONTO ARGONAUT&-Piaced John Cangemi, Stewart, The Woodlands. Texas. del Bob Hewitt quarterback, on the practice roster. and Frew McMillan, South Africa, 6·4, 6·4. Kristin God ridge and Kirrily Sharpe (1 ). Austalia, NATIONAL LEAGUE Tom Gullikson, Palm Coast. Fla., and Dick del. Svetiana Komieva and Elena Makarova (7). 
Wednesday's Games HOCKEY Stockton (1 ), Dallas. del. Cliff Drysdale, Durham, Soviet Union, 6·1, 6·3. Pittsburgh 1, New York 0, 1st game National Hockey League N.C.• and Roger Taylor, Britain, 6-1, 6-1. Petra Kucova, Czechoslovakia and Shi-Ting Pittsburgh 3, New York 1. 2nd game BOSTON BRUIN&-Signed Wes Walz. center. to a Jaime Filial. Aspen, Colo., and Peter Fleming, Wang (6), Taipei, del. Meredith Geiger, Oklahoma 
Philadelphia 4, Chicago 1 four-year contract. New York, del. Wojtek Fibak. Poland, and Paul City, and Pam Nelson, Ross. Calif., 6·3, 6·4. Montreal 6, St. Louis 2 
CHICAGO BLACKHAWK&-Named Vladislav McNamee (3), Australia, 6·2, 6-3. 
San Diego 5, Houston 2 Mixed Doubles 
Tretiak goaltending instructor and scout. llie Nastase. Romania, and John Newcombe. 
Cincinnati 5, San Francisco 3 Championship
LOS ANGELES KING&-Traded Chris Australia. del. Bob Lutz, San Clemente, Calif .. and Atlanta 6, Los Angeles 2 Elizabeth Smylie and Todd Woodbridge (8), 
Duncanson, left wing, to the Minnesota North Stars Alex Mayer (4), Los Altos, Calif., 1·6, 6·4, 7·5. Thursday's Games Austrtai. del. Natalia Zvereva, Soviet Union. and
for Daniel Barth1aume, goaltender. Late Games Not Included Jim Pugh (1), Palos Verdes. Calif.. 6·4, 6·2. 
MONTREAL CANADIEN&-Signed Jean-Jacques Senior Women 
Doubles 

San Francisco 6, Cincinnati 2 center. Semlffnals Open tennis tournament: Chicago 5, Philadelphia 2 NEW JERSEY DEVIL&-Acquired Laurie Wendy Turnbull (1 ), Australia, and Virginia Wade. 
St. LoUis 4, Montreal 2 Daigneault, defenseman, and Charles Poulin, Featured matches Friday at the $6.35 mlfflon U.S. 
Steffi Graf (t ), West Germany, vs. Arantxa Pittsburgh 7, New York 1 Boschmim. center, from the Winnipeg Jets for Bob Britain. del. Olga Morozova. Soviet Union, and Sanchez V1cario (6). Spain. 
Brooke, forward. Betty Stove, Nethertands, 6-4. 6·4. Atlanta at Los Angeles. (n) NEW YORK RANGER&-Signed Chris Cichocki, Rosie Casals (2). Sausalito, Calif., and Billy Jean 
Houston at San Diego. (n) Pieter Aldrich and Danie Visser (2), South Africa. 
vs. Paul Annacone, East Hampton. N.Y., and David Friday's Games right wing. King, New York, del. Maria Bueno, Brazil, and 
Wheaton, Excelsior. Minn. St. Louis (Tewksbury 9-5) at Chicago (G. Maddux 12·12), 2:20p.m. Sharon Walsh-Pete. Albuquerque, N.M., 6·1, 6-2. Gabriela Sabatini (5), Argentina, vs. Mary Joe New York (Cone tt-7) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 4·6). 7:35p.m. International Hockey League Fernandez (8), Miami. 
Montreal (Boyd 8-5) at Pittsburgh (Smiley 8·7), 7:35p.m. ALBANY CHOPPER&-Signed Gordon Paddock lbf.i Atlanta (Leibrandt 7·8) at San Diego (Whitson 12-7), 10:05 p.m. and Vern Smrth, defensemen. Singles Cincinnati (Rijo 11-6) at Los Angeles (Neidlinger 3-1), 10:35 p.m. KANSAS CITY BLADE&-Signed a working Third Round Houston (Darw1n 10-2) at San Francisco (Burkett11·6), 10:35 p.m. agreement with the Edmonton Oilers. Andrea Gaudenzi (15), Italy. del. Ivan Baron (1), AP FOOTBALL TOP 25 
Saturday's Games 
Plantation. Fla.. 7-5, 6-2. St. Louis at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. SOCCER Marcus Ondruska (2), South Africa, del. Clinton Houston at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. Major Soccer League Marsh (16), South Africa, 6-2, 4-6, 7-5. How the top 25 teams in the Associated Press' New York at Philadelphia, 7:05p.m. DALLAS SIDEKICK&-Signed Tatu, forward. Daniel Nestor (12), Canada, del. Oinu Pescarlu 
college football poll fared Thursday: 
1. Miami, Fla. (0-0) did not play. Next: at No. 16
Montreal at Pittsburgh. 7:05 p.m. (5), Romania, 6·t, 6·2. Cincinnati at Los Angeles. 10:05 p.m. COLLEGE Mikael Tillstrom (13), Sweden, del. Oliver Brigham Young, Saturday. Atlanta at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. NORTHEAST CONFERENCE-Announced the Fernandez (3), Mexico, 6-4, 5-7, 6·3. 
2. Notre Dame (0·0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 6 
Sunday's Games resignation of Ray Calla, assistant commissioner Karim Alami (9). Morocco, del. Robert Janecek, Michigan, Sept. 15. New York at Philadelphia, 1:35 p.m. for public relations, in order to become the director Canada, 4-6. 7·6 (7-5), 6-4. 
3. Auburn (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Fullerton 
Montreal at Pittsburgh, 1:35 p.m. of communications for the Atlantic 10 Conference. David Witt, Jacksonville Beach. Fla., del. Andrei State, Saturday. Houston at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. ALFRED-Named Mark Mcfadden. women's Medvedev (11), Soviet Union, 6-4, 6-4. 
(tie) Florida State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. East 
Carolina, Saturday. Atlanta at San Diego, 4:05p.m. BROWN-Named Jeffrey Ward assistant athletic Tamer Ahmed El Sawy, Egypt, 6 ·7 (3-7), 6-1,7-5. 
Cincinnati at Los Angeles. 4:05p.m. volleyball coach; and Bill Speca, men's golf coach. Chris Cocotos, West Palm Beach, Fla., del. 
5. Michigan (0-0) did not play. Next: at No.2 Notre 
St. Louis at Chicago. 8:05p.m. director for facilrties and support services. Thomas Enqvist, Sweden, del. Alistair Hunt, New Dame, Sept. 15. JACKSONVILLE-Named Doug Corbett pitching Zealand, 6-4, 6·1. 
6. Colo111do (1-0-1) beat Stanford 21­
17. Next: at Illinois. Sept. 15.
coach and Terry Springer men's golf coach. 
7. Southern Cal (1-0) did not play. Naxt: vs. No. 21 Penn State, Sept. 15.
LEAGUE LEADERS 8. TenneuM (1-0-1) did not play. Next: at Mississippi State, Saturday. 
9. Clemson (1-0) did not play. Next: at No. 15 
Virginia, Saturday. BMed on 357 111 Bills BMed on 357 111 Bills 
1o. Nebrallkll (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. Northern 
Illinois. Saturday. tt. Ullnole (0-0) did not play. Next: at Arizona. 
NATlONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
G AB R H Pet. G AB R H Pet. 
Saturday.
Dykstra Phi 128 506 94 172 .340 RHdsnOak 115 417 100 137 .329 
12. Taxa A&M (1-0) did not play. Next: vs.
McGeeSIL 125 501 76 t68 .335 Plmero Tex 129 SOD 63 161 .322 Magadan NY 119 59 Brett KC 472 151 Southwestern Louisiana, Sept. 15.
364 120 .330 t23 74 .320 
13. Alllbema (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. SouthernDuncan Cin 107 378 60 1t9 .315 Trammell Det 131 505 67 160 .3t7 
Mississippi, Saturday. 
Murray LA t30 467 79 147 .315 McGrHfTor 128 459 82 143 .312 
14. VIrginia (1·0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 10Grace Chi 132 497 56 15-4 .310 Harper Min 117 421 57 13t .311 
Clemson. Saturday.
TGwynn SO 132 537 72 166 .309 Burks Bsn t26 482 77 149 .309 
15. Arkanses (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Tulsa.
Dawson Chi 122 442 55 136 .308 DParker Mil 133 516 63 159 .308 
Sept. 15.
Bonds Prt t28 440 90 135 .307 Puckett Min 125 468 79 144 .308 
16. Brigham Young (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. No.
Wallach Man 135 520 57 159 .306 Boggs Bsn 131 527 79 162 .307 
1 Miami, Aa., Saturday. 
17. Ptttsburgh (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. Boston Home Runs 
Home Runs 
College, Saturday.Mitchell, San Francisco. 32; Sandberg, Chicago, 32; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 31; Strawbenry. New 
Fielder, Detrort, 44; JCanseco. Oakland. 35; McGwire, Oakland, 34; McGriff, Toronto. 32; Deer, 
18. Ohio State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Texas York. 31; Gant, Atlanta, 27; MaWilliams. San Francisco, 27; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 25; Daniels, Los 
Milwaukee, 26; Gruber, Toronto. 24; RHendsrson, Oakland, 24; BJackson. Kansas City. 22. 
Tech. Saturday.Angeles, 23; Justice, Atlanta. 23; Saba, Cincinnati, 23. 
19. UCLA (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 22 Oklahoma, Saturday. Runs Baned In Runs Belled In 20. Washington (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. San 
MaWilliams. San Francisco, 105; JCarter, San Diego, 102; Bonds. Pittsburgh, 101: Bonilla, Fielder, Detroit, 114; McGwire, Oakland, 94; JCanseco. Oakland. 89; Gruber. Toronto. 88: DParker, Jose State. Saturday. Pittsburgh, 101; Strawberry, New York, 91; Wallach. Montreal, 86; Mitchell, San Francisco. 84; Milwaukee. 85; Sierra. Texas, 85; Trammell, Detroit, 82; Maldonado. Cleveland. 81. 21 Penn State (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. Texas. HJohnson. New York, 83. Saturday. 
22. Michigan State (0·0) did not play. Next: at 
Pttchlng (10 DeciSions) Darw1n. Houston. 10-2, .833; Drabek. Pittsburgh. 18-5, .783; Tudor, St. Louis. 11-4..733; Cook. Philadelphia. 8·3..727; RMartinez. Los Angeles. 16·6, .727; Gooden. New York, 15-6, .714; Harkey. Chicago, 12·6..667; Robinson, San Francisco, 10-5, .667; Sampan, Montreal, 10-5..667.  Pttchlng (10 Declslons) B. Jones. Chicago, 11·1 ..917; Welch. Oakland, 23-5, .821: Bolton. Boston, 8-2..800; Williamson, Battimore, 8·2, .800; Stieb. Toronto, 17·5, .n3; Clemens. Boston, 20·6, .769: RRobinson. Milwaukee. 9· 3, .750; CF~nley, Californ1a, 17·6..739  Syracuse. Sept 15. 23. Oklahoma (0-0) d1d not play. Next: at No. 19 UCLA. Saturday. 24. Houston (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. UNLV,  
Saturday.  
25 West VIrginia (1-0) did not play. Next: vs.  
Maryland, Saturday.  

~-----­

.. 
'· 

~ea::.gce:....1.:..::8::._______________________T:...:.h.:.:e:....O=bs:..:e::.rv.:...:e:..:r________________ Friday, September 7, 1990 
Ismail 
continued from page 24 
performance in the Buffaloes' 
31-31 tie against Tennessee 
couldn't have helped his 
chances. Hagan is an option 
quarterback in the mold of 
Tony Rice and, for that reason, 
he won't be able to impress the 
Heisman voters with his pass­
ing marks. 
Junior Ty Detmer of Brigham Young, USC sophomore Todd Marinovich and Miami senior Craig Erickson are the best of a strong contingent of quarter­backs vying for the award. Detmer is the finest passer in the group, but Marinovich and Erickson both play for high­profile programs which could garner them a few extra votes. 
The 1990 Heisman field lacks a solid running back candidate of the Barry Sanders variety, but Houston senior Chuck Weatherspoon, Pittsburgh ju­nior Curvin Richards and Fresno State senior Aaron 
Craver and Alabama senior Siran Stacy will make strong bids for the award. Tennessee sophomore Chuck Webb, a top preseason candidate, is out for the season after tearing the an­terior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking qualified Individuals to fill the following positions for its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER 
FTIPI' SALES ASSOCIATES 
Experience with bettermen's and women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with experience. Please apply in person at: 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Filming for the Lou Holtz Show will take place today from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. at WNDU Studios. Anyone in­terested in speaking with Coach Holtz and being in the studio audience should call SportsChannel's Chicago office prior to the filming at (708) 524-9444. The show will air Sunday on SportsChannel and again on WNDU Saturday, September 15 from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to any­one in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The en­try fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 
p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
Anyone interested in joining the men's and women's varsity track and field teams, there will be an im­portant meeting today at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 
Racquetball players of all skill levels who are interested in joining the Racquetball Club, call x2334 or x2333 and leave a message. 
Hall Athletic Commissioners -Please call the Non­Varsity Office immediately to give them your name, address and phone number. This will get you on the 1990-91 mailing list, enabling you to receive NVA info for your hall. Call 239­5100. 
The Sailing Club will be hosting a regatta this weekend with 15 schools from the Midwest at Diamond Lake Yacht Club in Michigan. Spectators are welcome; call Watts at x3657. 
Off-Campus soccer will have practice today at 4:30 
p.m. on Stepan Field. If you cannot attend, please call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
As aMarine Officer, }QU could be in charge ofa Mach 2+ FIA-1&\, avertiad take-offHarrier or one ofour other je5or helicopters. And you could do tt bythe time )QU're 23. Butit!likesaspOOal 
Hours for Rockne Memorial until Fall Break are: Swimming, Mon.-Fri. 7-9 a.m., noon-6 p.m. and 8-11 p.m., Sat. from 1-6 p.m. and from 7-11 p.m., and Sunday from 1­6 p.m. and 7:30-11 p.m. The Third Floor Weight Room is open Mon-Fri. 3-10:30 p.m. and Sat.-Sun. noon-9 p.m. All other facilities are open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-11 p.m. and Sat­Sun. 10 a.m. -11 p.m. Family hours are Sundays from 2-5 p.m. 
The Water Polo Club will have an introductory meeting at 6:30 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theater. All details concerning season activities will be covered at this meeting. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will begin meeting this week. The club offers instruction in both Tae Kwon Doe and Jiu Jitsu. Beginners classes meet Thursday from 7-9 p.m. and Sunday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. Returning advanced students begin Friday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. All classes are in 219 Rockne. For more information, call Denis at 283-2090. 
The Notre Dame Men's Volleyball team is sponsoring a 2-on-2 Grass Classic on Saturday, Sept. 8th at 10 a.m. on South Quad. Entry fee is $6 per team and prizes will be awarded. If interested, contact Ann at 288-2195 or Tom at 283-3697. 
NO and SMC field hockey players -there will be a meeting on Sunday, Sept. 9th in room 315 Walsh Hall at 
7:30 p.m. for a new club that is forming. For more information, call Suzanne at x4174. 
The ND/SMC Equestrian club will hold its first meeting on Sunday, September 9, at 8 p.m. in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. New members welcome. For more information, call Karen at 283-1715 or Chris at 284-4401. 
•

afreshman orsophomore, ask about ourWlder­graduate·officer conunissioning programs. Ifyou're a junior, checkoutour graduate programs. Starting salaries are from $20,000 to $24,000. And , 
commitmenton your part We .----------------., you can COWlt on demand leaders at all levels. ~0 ~Q ..J.I.a-. going further...faster. We teach you to be one. Ifyou're u .l.ii.,lUl.,;~··· mrelookingiilrafewgoodmen.
faster. 
:• 
• 

Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
ever know who really started 
the altercation, but it is the lin­gering image of a dramatic 28-Lou speaks out
Holtz 
continued from page 24 24 Irish victory. 
On football: "Football is an extension of lite. Everything that you're going to face in life in the years to come is involved in football. You 
said. "I just came and did what "People said we lacked disci­
have some goals, you have some direction. You've got to develop your skills, your talent. your abilities. You've got to work exceptionally 
the mandate of the university pline and that we were a bunch 
hard. It's also a game where you need other people. Your future or your success depends on others. You can be a great receiver but if 
was -which was not to win na­of thugs," Holtz said. "You look at it and you say, 'I can't
tional championships, not to the quarterback doesn't get you the ball. you can't display your talents or abilities. And if you do all this, you still may not get the 
finish first in the country, not change what they said.' You recognition you think you deserve. You win and they give it to somebody else. You don't get the promotion to the first team." to go to a bowl game. It was to look at it and see if there is any make football a good ·educa­truth to it. There was no truth 
On winning and losing: "You have heartaches and you have disappointments. Things don't go well and you lose. You don't 
tional experience and not com­that we had thugs on our team. 
necessarily have a lot of friends. You have to hire pallbearers for your own funeral. And when you win, you have all kinds of people 
promise the values and the Sometimes, they make bad de­morals and the principals that rejoicing and all of a sudden you find out that's not really what's important in life or in football."
cisions, but they're great peo­Notre Dame cherishes. I never ple." 
came and said 'I want to win The tunnel incidents were just On the volume of mail he receives: "We spend half of our time opening mail about speaking requests. I am not a speaker. I'm a
this.'" 
a small part of the off-field 
coach. I can't imagine going anywhere that the volume of mail I get would diminish. If I became a mailman, I wouldn't handle as much
But Holtz did win. problems Holtz has faced in the 
mail as I do now"
After a 5-6 opening season, past two years. There have Holtz led the 1987 team to an been suspensions of key play­8-4 mark and an appearance in ers, allegations of widespread On pressure: "I do 'not feel pressure to win -none. There's never been anyone from the administration who has said that we have to 
the Cotton Bowl. He followed steroid use among Irish play­
win this game. I like to win and I'm sure they're disappointed when we don't win. Pressure is going to take a big exam when you haven't
that with a perfect 12-0 mark ers, accusations of recruiting 
studied. I do feel pressure to run the program and have our players reflect the standards that Notre Dame values and cherishes. We just 
in 1988 and the national cham­violations and even charges of 
pionship. The encore was a 12-telephone misuse. do the best we can and let things take care of themselves." 
1 record and a second-place At times. it seems like Holtz rankin!! in 1989. wants to lash out at the critics. On criticism and accusations: "It seems that the more success you have, the more situations like that arise. It hurts you with some At other times, it seems like he 
of the things you can't control. You have to look at yourself and say, 'Did I do the right thing?' If the answer is no. you just have to go on. If 
realizes the problems come 
the answer is yes. you have to ask what you could do to improve that." 
with the territory. 
"We were 5-6 and we had no problems," Holtz said. "When On real pressure: "When you're 35 and the bank turned down your request to re-mortgage the farm, you've got a crop in the field, 
we were 8-4, we had a few you've got six hungry youngsters and your wife ran off with the drummer, you'll understand that there's got to be a resilience to you, problems. In today's age, what­
some determination, something to get you through tough times." 
ever can be done on Notre Dame. . .oh, I don't know. 
On life: "Be a participant in life. Do not be a spectator. You do something to experience what it's like. You can do it once and
You'd just have to ask those people. I have no idea why experience it a thousand times. Instead of staying on the sofa watching TV, go do aomething." 

things happen, how they hap­pen. 
"The only thing I can honestly ported that Holtz had ex­say in my heart is that we've pressed interest in the vacant always had the right intentions Atlanta Falcons coaching job, a and done the right things. I can position eventually filled by honestly say if I died tomorrow Jerry Glanville. The reports or if Notre Dame fired me to­linking Holtz to other jobs are morrow or if somebody shot about as common as the prob­me tomorrow that at all times lems and criticism that seems and in all ways I tried to uphold to follow the Notre Dame team. the mandate that was given to "I cannot see myself coaching
The Observer/Steve Moskop 

me when they hired me." anywhere else or going any­He also discovered that suc­• • • where else," Holtz said. 
cess comes with a price at the Early Thursday morning Holtz is the first to admit most-visible and most-scruti­many members of the sopho­that coaching has changed him nized program in the country. more class had waited all night over the years, that he is not ••• in line for football tickets. the same coach who took over 
This was October of 1989, or Holtz showed up with dough­at William & Mary in 1969. maybe October of 1988, or even nuts and left a parting shot at "Coaching when you first September of 1988. It was one the crowd. start is the big games, the ex­of three pre-game tunnel inci­''I'll be here when you gradu­citement, the TV shows, the 
dents at Notre Dame Stadium ate whether you like it or not," book," he said. "You're younger in Holtz's tenure. he said. and you think, 'It would be 
It was before the much-hyped Holtz's future at Notre Dame great to someday have some­Notre Dame-USC game and a has been the subject of great body express my name in the scuffie broke out in the tunnel debate since the Irish won the same sentence with Bear as both teams exited the field national championship in 1988. Bryant and Woody Hayes. after warmups. No one may The National recently re-

preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our l.SAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising srrategies 
and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical 
Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and srudy material is based on the '1u:w" l.SAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE" lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and ~e for you~lf. 
And watch the scales tip in your favot: 

! S1i\Nl.EY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Cbances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
"But then, it's reaUy the asso­ciation with people. It's not be­ing their friend or their buddy. It's setting the standard and then showing them how they can reach it. Yet, if you don't make a firm commitment to being the best you can be, you're doing them a disservice. If we're going to play football, 
Lou Holtz's Collegiate Coaching Record 


I THE VARSITY SHOP 1
~-----------------------· ••• 
I I Dateline-Notre Dame, the year 2000, the 21st century. If Holtz continues at his cur­rent pace, it will also be a time 
when people compare him to the great coaches --Knute 
I Any Haircut I Rockne, Frank Leahy, Ara 
: (regularly $8) : Parseghian. 
i $2 OFF i 
"I'll never be compared to I I those people for a couple of reasons. nor is it my goal,"

I Edison Rd at S.R. 23 277-0057 exo 9/30/90 l.l 
Holtz said. "People today real­ize I'm just human. I'm jut an
-----------------------
average guy. I'm no different 
than the next-door neighbor. 
"Ara. Leahy, Rockne, they were in a different mold. I don't have the ability to be classified as a great coach. I consider myself one of the luckiest coaches ever. I'm more con­cerned about what people think about me as a man and a per­son -hard-working, honest, considerate and caring. I think what you are as a man and a person is far more important than what you are as a coach. 
"It's the greatest job in the world, the greatest place in the world. I just can't believe a good old guy from East Liverpool, Ohio, would end up at a place like this." 
1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 
1986 1987 
1988 
1989 

William & Mary Witliam &Mary William & Mary North Carolina St North Carolina St. North Carolina St. North Carolina St. Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Minnesota Minnesota 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
3-7 5-7 5-6 8-3-1 9-3 9·2-1 7-4-1 11-1 9-2-1 10-2 7-5 8-4 9-2-1 6-5 4-7 6-5 
5-6 S.4. 
12·0* 
.JIIII"!II!J!IIIII... 

• denotes National Championship season 
The Observer/Michael F. Muldoon 
let's play it to the best of our abilities." 
~----~ ---~----­
page 20 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Coast Conference finals, de­feating NCAA co-champi_on Virginia along the way. Jumor forward Clint Carnell and ju­nior George Dunn are the cornerstones of Duke. · 
Berticelli's positive frame of mind has already worn off onto this Notre Dame team. 
"It's a test," said junior goal­
keeper Peter Gulli. "We played 
well (in an exhibition) against 
Indiana, and that gave us con­
fidence we could play with Top 
20 teams." 
Senior co-captain Paul LaVigne thinks the Irish have become more focused. "The in­tensity level is key," he said. "What you do in practice is what you do in games, and we've had good intensity levels in practice." 
The road doesn't get any 
easier for the Irish after 
Friday's game with the Blue 
Devils, as Notre Dame will face 
another strong ACC team in 
North Carolina State on 
Sunday. 
The Wolfpack, ranked 17th in 
the nation by Soccer America, 
have two wins so far in the '90 
campaign, against the same 
Jacksonville and -ONe­
Greensboro teams beaten by 
Duke. N.C. State's attack has 
proved dangerous this season, 
propelling the 'Pack to a com­
bined 11-1 score in their two 
victories. 
N.C. State was 8-8-1 last sea­son, respectable considering the strength of the ACC, and re­turns eight starters off that team. Stars for the Wolfpack include All-ACC midfielder Dario Brose, as well as forward Henry Gutierrez, and keeper Dale Allred, who played in every single minute of competition last season. 
The Irish aren't looking past the Blue Devils at the Wolfpack, though. 
"N.C. State is equal. if not tougher than Duke, but we want to take one game at a time," Gulli said. "We'll think about State after Duke." 
Berticelli is confident but cau­tious about his team's chances. "We can be competitive," he said, "but they're experienced 
teams, and we're less experi­
enced, so it's very, very impor­
tant for us to play well as a 
unit. If we do, then we can give them a tough match." 
Road trips such as these are a key component in taking a team to the championship-caliber level, and if the enthusiasm the players show and the overtime period against Dayton are any indicators, the Irish could upset a ranked team in the very near future. 

------,...-------------------­
Friday, September 7, 1990The Observer 

Nasty boys meet as 'Canes travel west to take on BYU 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Defensive tackle Russell Maryland has coined a label worthy of boxing promoter Don King for Saturday's game between football heavyweights Miami and Brigham Young. 
"Nasty from the East meets Nasty from the West," Miami's Maryland said with a chuckle. 
The top-ranked Hurricanes travel to Utah for their season opener bearing a tradition of verbal intimidation --on-the­field taunting and off-the-field boasting. Brigham Young, though it is a Mormon school, has been accused in recent years of playing dirty. 
"They're religious and every­thing," Maryland said. "But I guess they're human, too. They're just like us in a sense." 
The 16th-ranked Cougars' opener last Saturday at Texas­El Paso did nothing to improve their image. A 30-10 victory was marred by a bench-clearing brawl in the third quarter and the ejection of star halfback Matt Bellini. 
"I don't expect that to happen with us," Miami coach Dennis Erickson said, "because we never do that kind of stuff." His comment drew laughter from reporters. 
In truth, Miami's reputation has improved sint;e Erickson The Observer/Andrew McCloskey became coach last year. He has Mitch Kern and the Irish will face Duke and N.C. State this weekend. cracked down on taunting and has warned the Hurricanes to 
Saint Mary's volleyball starts season with win 
By CHRIS BACON tion to her four kills and 13 Saint Mary's Sports Editor digs. Despite their impressive vic­
The Saint Mary's volleyball tory Wednesday night, the team made its debut Belles realize that they face a Wednesday night, sweeping St. challenging season. HavingXavier College in straight sets, been promoted from the ranks 
15-13, 15-11, 15-9. of the NAJA division to the 
"St. Xavier is traditionally a NCAA division three, the strong opponent. This was a strength of their schedule has good first win for us. It gets been upgraded significantly. the season off to a positive "We realize we have a lot of start," says coach Sue Medley. work to do before we get to 
where we want to be. The 

Sophon10re Karen Lorton led strength of our schedule is very the Belles with 22 kills, 15 digs tough this year. We're working and eight blocks. Senior co­with a lot of different line-upscaptain Katy Killilea was sec­because of injuries. So we're ond in kills with ten, and led the not settled into any starting team in digs, with 16 and ser­line-up," Medley said. vice aces, with seven. Freshman However, the Belles have four Michelle Martino totalled up 37 returning starters, Killilea (45 assists for the Belles in addi-service aces, 131 kills, 232 digs, 
Eucharist Presiders of Sacred Heart Church this weekend: 
Saturday, September 8, 5:00 PM -Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C Sunday, September 9, 5:00 PM 
Mass for the Opening of the Academic Year -Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Sunday, September 9, 11:45 AM -Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study -Fellowshi 
September 10, 1990 
Time: 7pm
Join 
Us! 

Call Collect 784-2078 
steer clear of disparaging re­
marks about opponents. 
The combat fatigues that 
Miami players wore when they 
arrived at the Fiesta Bowl in 
1986 are all but forgotten. 
"It's taken a lot to kind of 
clear the image that we had," 
senior tackle Mike Sullivan 
said. "It's something that a lot 
of people got tired of here. 
"We'd be winning games and 
people would say, 'They're just 
a bunch of trash-talking what­
avers.' We try to stay away 
from that stuff, and I think 
we've done a pretty good job of 
it... At BYU, the bad-boy image 
contrasts with school rules that 
prohibit students from using 
tobacco, alcohol or caffeine. 
Cougars coach La Veil Edwards 
said fights such as the one last 
Saturday happen once in a 
while; Bellini said he and his 
teammates are football players, 
not angels. 
Nasty East and Nasty West have met once before, in 1988. The Hurricanes won 41-17 and came away from the game shaking their heads about Brigham Young's four flagrant 15-yard penalties. 
"You had some late hits coming from their offensive linemen," Maryland recalled. 
"There were a lot of personal fouls and a few shoving matches after plays," Sullivan said. 

29 blocks), senior co-captain Michelle Sibilsky ( 167 kills, 48 assists, 34 service aces, 256 digs, 88 blocks), sophomore Amy Perkins (46 kills, 27 as­sists, 39 service aces, 232 digs, 18 blocks) and Lorton(217 kills, 48 service aces, 226 digs, 132 blocks, 96.6 service per­centage). 
Saint Mary's also has a strong bench. If the Belles per­
form well and stay healthy, they should fare well in this new season. 
Saturday, the Belles travel to Kalamazoo to ocmpete in the Hornet Invitational. 
"Saturday is going to be a challenge for us. In the past it's been a good tournament. I'm looking for us to do well. But, we'll need a strong perfor­mance from everyone because of injuries." 

PUBLIC NOTICE 
LIQUfDATORS HAVE TAKEN OVER! 
GOING OUT 
OF IIJiW. 
BUISNESS 
------------------------T 
STUDENTS 
PRESENT THIS COUPON FOR 
AN ADDITIONAL 1Q%OFF 
1------------------------­

Dally 10 to 9 MASTER ~"''"'...,. 
sunday G-OLDBLATT'S VISA 
9 to 5 ACCEPTED TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 2500 Miracle Lane (McKinley St.) Mishawaka NOTHING HELD BACK 
Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer 

Agassi, Becker win at Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Sassy and flashy and psyched to the max, Andre Agassi put on a show of blast-away tennis to set up a fiery match against Boris Becker in the U.S. Open semifi­nals. 
Agassi, hungry for his first Grand Slam, chewed up Soviet Andrei Cherkasov 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 Thursday night and gave fur­ther proof that he isn't just the tennis world's loudest dresser. 
America's too player and the leader of the pack of young sluggers on the tour, Agassi, 20, walloped deep shots relent­lessly with his oversized, neon green, power racket and kept Cherkasov on the defensive in every set. 
Cherkasov, who beat base­liner Michael Chang in the third round, found that there's more to Agassi than his funky green and black clothes, and more to his game than big ground­strokes. Agassi took every op-
Football Ticket Sale Information 
Freshmen: TODAY 

Issue Hours: 9:00AM-8:00PM 
Bring application, student 1.0. and remittance to Gate 10, JACC. One student may present maximum 4 applications and 1.0. cards. 
The Observer 
Harlf.~!~qtrY ,P,t~Jena 

TRAil RIDES 
Over 500 acres of 219-778-4625
+Jtmeadows, ponds, OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND woods. , 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE, IN 
11h Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
KTOC 
United Methodist Students!! 
JOIN US FOR WORSHIP AND ACTIVITIES! First United Methodist Church 
333 N. Main (So. Bend)-across from Burger King 
8:45 AM Celebration Service in Sanctuary (45 min) 
9:30 AM Refreshments in Gathering Room 9:45AM "University Fellowship" in Education Wing 
11:00 AM Traditional Service in Sanctuary (1 hour) 
WE ARE HAPPY TO ARRANGE TRANSPORTATION If you need a ride, call 233-9463 Mon thru Fri 8 am-Spm 
portunity to charge the net and kill the ball on the run. He didn't show much finesse, but after a year of pumping iron, his power is undeniable. 
It was never more so than at the end of the first set and throughout the second. Agassi took a 4-2 lead in the first set with a forehand deep in the corner on game point that whizzed by Cherkasov as if it were a rocket. Agassi took par­ticular pleasure in that shot, gazing at it in admiration be­fore strutting back to the base­line. 
Agassi then broke Cherkasov with an assault that had the So~iet sprinting frenetically from side to side, desperately chasing balls and finally hitting them wide or into the net. Agassi finished the set with a service winner to take the game at love. 
It was more of the same in the second set and third, Cherkasov breaking Agassi a few times but Agassi coming right back with his relentless assault. 
"He has powerful ground­strokes. I think the best in the world," said Cherkasov, a 20­year-old born on the Fourth of July. 
Slosar 
continued from page 24 
Slosar; teamwork and mentally 
focusing on the game. · 
"Everybody has the talent (in college)," said Slosar. "You re­ally have to focus on the mental part of the game. It's not high school where you can rely on talent alone. Being smart and using your mind is what puts you above the rest." 
Jennifer Slosar certainly knows what it takes to become the best. She won four letters in volleyball and was a second­team all-state selection her se­nior year at Mercy High School in Birmingham, Michigan. She also excelled in basketball and golf. earning three and four let­ters, respectively. 
"I just have a love for athlet­ics," said Slosar. "I've played basketball all my life. Volleyball is still a new sport to me and I'm still learning. It's something different. It's a lot of fun, but a lot of work, too. It's a lot different from basketball, espe­cially the conditioning." 
Jennifer's talent certainly 

runs in the family. Her father John Slosar played basketball at John Carroll University. 
"My Dad's been my biggest inspiration," Slosar said. "He doesn't really know volleyball, but he's always been my mental coach. He really understands." 
Slosar basically had her pick of the crop coming out of high school. She had scholarship of­fers for basketball but none of the schools appealed to her. Her decision came down to the University of Michigan (which also offered her a golf scholar­ship) and Notre Dame. 
"Michigan had a really good engineering program too, but nothing beats the tradition of Notre Dame. The community spirit is great here. My recruit­ing visit told me where I wanted to be." 
Ah yes, yet another loss for Michigan at the hands of the Irish. 
Slosar is making a good ad­justment to the college game. "The game moves much quicker at this level. Teams like Stanford and Texas are strong teams. It's boom, boom, boom. The play out West is much 
Office of University Computing University of Notre Dame 

OUC and Spyglass, Inc. cordially invite you to a presentation ot software tools tor the analysis, visualization and management ot scientific and engineering data on the 
Underwritten In part by Spyglass, Inc Refreshments wffl be served 
103 Computing Center Monday, Sept. 10 !0:30am 
or 
I 03 Computing Center Monday, Sept. 10 2:00pm 
Organizational Meeting Sunday, Sept.9 6:30 pm Library Auditorium 

Make a big difference in a little person's life! 
quicker than in the Midwest. I'm still getting used to it, but it doesn't come all at once." 
"Jennifer is making tremen­dous progress," said Lambert. "She's really coming into her own. Her defense is improved and her passing is better. She's starting to hit like we expected her to hit. When she's on like she was against Washington State (18 kills), we can just get the sideout and keep giving her the ball to score." 
Again, like most varsity ath­letes on this campus, Jennifer is never satisfied. 
"There's not one part of my game I don't need to work on. It's mostly a matter of being consistent. I love to hit, but even that needs work." 
Still, this looks like it could be the year for Jennifer Slosar. She played 22 games as a freshman and 62 as a sopho­more. She was second on the team last year with a 2.69 kill average (137 total kills). She had some of her best games against teams in the Top 25. She had 111 kills and four ser­vice aces against Illinois (ranked seventh this year). as 
well  as  16  kills  against  
Kentucky  and  15  against  
Texas-Arlington.  

''I'm really excited about this year," Slosar said. "We have a tough schedule, but in order to be the best you have to play the best. Everyone on the team feels that way." 
Unfortunately, Slosar won't be in action for the Irish this weekend. She has been plagued by shin splints in the last few years, but after an unusual amount of pain, a bone scan yesterday revealed a stress fracture in her right ankle. 
"That's not what she needed right now" Lambert said."We don't know when she'll be back." 
Slosar on the other hand, has different ideas. 
"I'm being fitted for a brace. I won't play this weekend but I'm looking to play in the Big Four Tournament (Sept. 14­15]." 
A great competitor isn't kept down. 
--~­

page 22 The Observer Friday, September 1, 1990 
Women's soccer squad flies south for weekend 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team takes to the skies this weekend as it flies south 
for matchups against Top 20 
opponents Duke and UNC­
Greensboro. 
The Irish set off for sunny North Carolina at 8 a.m. Friday morning, in order that they may have ample time to gear up for a Saturday showdown with Duke at 2 p.m. and a Sunday meeting with Greensboro at 1 p.m. 
Does this sound simple? Fly down, win, fly home. Not quite. The Irish are in for two hard­fought games this weekend. Duke, which was ranked 20th in Division I in the most recent NCAA poll, recently trounced fifth-ranked William and Mary (at William and Mary), raising Duke's record on the young season to 2-0. In their first game, the Blue Devils handily dispatched Mercer 6-0 at Duke. 
"Duke is scary," noted Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "They have lots of firepower up front, and they are solid at ev­ery position. Mary Pat Rosenthal, the daughter of Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, is a tough full­back for Duke. We definitely have to be aware of her when we're taking corner kicks. 
"But of course, she is only one of many talented players. It's a difficult situation to go to their place, both because they are playing well now and we have a young team." 
Similarly, UNC-Greensboro, Petrucelli's alma mater, has been in the Top 20 of Division 11 each of the past three years. 
"Greensboro is a young and talented program," explained Petrucelli. "They are at a point where they have lots of juniors playing, while we have lots of freshmen playing. Again, they will be difficult to beat. The hardest part is that we have to

f play them the day after we play Duke." Yet the Irish, who tied Wisconsin 1-1 at Wisconsin (no easy feat) in an exhibition game, are 1-0 on the regular season after a 5-1 victory over 
national championships on the field we'll be playing on, and it has many good memories for me. Also, I have a sister and friends at Greensboro. I hope that we represent ourselves well." 
Petrucelli, who was a mid­fielder on two national champi­onship teams (1982 and 1983) while a student at UNC­Greensboro, knows a good deal about winning. Aside from spending six years as the assis­tant men's soccer coach at Old Dominion (the post he occupied before moving to Notre Dame), he has coached the men's Olympic Development Regional 
Giolitto, who scored two goals in Notre Dame's season­opener, is a junior midfielder, but is a sophomore for pur­poses of eligibility. 
As a team, the Irish are nursing several injuries right now. Senior forward Mimi Suba suffered a muscle pull against Northeast Missouri, while ju­nior sweeper Molly Lennon is on day-to-day status with a pulled quad muscle. Jennifer Kwiatkowski, a freshman sweeper (usually backed-up by Molly Lennon), has tendinitis of the knee, a problem aggravated by extended running. Suba, whose playing status is doubt­ful for Saturday and possible for Sunday, will be temporarily replaced by freshman Andrea Sobajian. 

"The injuries are starting to stack up for us," lamented Notre Dame coach Petrucelli. "We've got several players out with minor injuries. Also, hav­ing Mimi injured creates a situ­ation where we will be young in our experience as well as our age. Now, we have almost no experience. This is a tough sit­uation for the other players. But I certainly think that we have people who can fill in and that they are all capable of playing. Still, we can't afford to have too many injuries." 
"As far as the season is con­cerned, we need to be encour­aged with the way we are play­ing now. Things are starting to come together, especially where the attack is concerned. Our de­fense is solid the whole way; but a defense does not take as much time to develop as an at­tack. These are the type of games you must play to develop national competitiveness. Playing ranked." 
Thus, despite the mJuries, youth and inexperience, the Irish remain confident as their showdown with destiny draws near. 


Northeast Missouri State last ¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥¥-¥¥-¥¥¥-¥/4
weekend at Alumni Field. In i( . i( 
~~::.t, Notre Dame is ready to «You've come a long way' Allison~ 
"We are excited about the ~ J; opportunity to play two of the ~ B better teams in the country," ~ continued coach Petrucelli. '?'­"We're really looking forward ~ to this trip." ~ 
"One thing you must know, '?'­though, and it is very important ~ -our attitude is not just that ~ we are making a trip. We are '?'­

going down there to win some ~ I JII\TJ r;,)o~)
w~.fll fl),•Rr:i)~rfll "'·VO 
games. We are planning on i( ~ljJ U (..!:l i::JlJ I..!.)WlJ/JJl!J<..;.J ~ 
winning two games. We are not ~~~~e~ ...down there to get iC We love JOU, "I'm also looking forward to ~ • returning to Greensboro," '1' Mom, Dad. and Ertch 
The Observer/Dave Short The Notre Dame women's soccer team will fly south this weekend to face Duke and UNC-Greensboro in what will be a homecoming of sorts 
added Petrucelli. "I won two .W.¥..¥..¥..¥..¥.¥.¥.lt..lt.ltll( ll(.lt..lt..¥.¥.¥..¥.lAt 
for head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
Team. The Regional team takes 
the best players of a certain age in a given region (in Petrucelli's ,case, the best 16­year-olds from Maine to Virginia) from their respective state teams, before turning them over to the United States National Team. 
"Duke may be rated higher than us, but we have a good chance to beat them," stated a 


determined Marianne Giolitto. "I'm really excited about this 
Know what 

trip; I can't wait to play. Right now I'm just thinking about Duke. After the game with you're drinking Duke is over, then I'll think about Greensboro." 
1&1 ~~~~oN~ '~·:':~'''~'''~~;~:~:;:;:;.:;:;:;,:;.;;~:;~ 
~CLUB 
FRIDAY 

SATURDAY LUNCH 12 pm-2 pm 
ARMED SERVICES NIGHT Grad Social Hour 5pm-9pm 
Join the DRAFT! 
.........B_a_s...e_b_a...l_l_N....ig._h...t_...._..__._.._ .... ,.__.._ _ _.._ _..____ 
~ 
~ 
...,.... 
~ ~ 
...,.... 
~ ~ 

~ •1-------------------------~1 
...,.... 
~ 
~ 
...,.... 
~ ~ 
~ 


PATiirS 
GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 
: Dinner·------------T---------~--~for 2 : 
Sundae : 

: $899 Sa;i~~er: 99¢ : 
I For I I I P·~· any two GourMet Sandwiches, I Bll v an\ size sun ctae :liHi I 1 twoGardenSaJads,plusyourchoiceor I rece-ive asecond one of tht' I 
rrench Fries or Oman Rmgs and 2 1 · f (}"' I
I M1na-Sundaes. same <;Jze Or -, 
....,. L__ !'!r!s.!~~:2 l _;~~e.:,;!2.6f!?_ j 


Friday, September 7, 1990 
The Observer page 23 
52 Hip bones 53 Trim 54 Bright ornament 56 Implode an old 
building 

MOVIES: 
''HARLEM NIGHTS'' 
FRI. SEPT. 7; 8 + 10:30 PM 

-
''HARD TO KILL'' 
SAT. SEPT. 8; 8 +10:30 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM $2.00 
CAMPUS 

Campus 
4 p.m. Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Direct Ionization Effects in DNA: Study of Mechanisms Using EPRIENDOR Crystallography," Prof. William Nelson, Department of Physics, Georgia State University. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. Admission Free. Sponsored by Radiation Laboratory. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Baked Pollock Sesame Swedish Meatballs with Mushroom Sauce Vegetable Rice Casserole 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I..CJOK SIJSl£, l'LL GIIJE. '10\.l '(OOR OOU. AND I'Ll GliJE iOJ 
f\ Q\Jf..~. OK.? ITS ~ I 1-\fo..IJE. \'4\Ll '\()..] LET 
lbB8E5 OJ\ NOW?:" 

W~ S1CLEN£R 
IT OOE'SNT Gl'lE OVR CLUB 
DeLL, 1111-l\l I'M A LOT Of C..R~I>IT 'tli-IE.~ 11-IE 
"rti!WTB 

-rnt: ONE W\-\0
' \I 
\

FIRS1 TIGER 15 1\ 'NIU.lNG 
\-lAD it) P"'l 


CA.I'TIIJE. 0~ 1~£. ENE\<~\'(. 
RAK'S0\<1\.' ITS 
A DISGRI\C£! 

~00 GET IS 0£\1\ER\15 fOR 
I ALMC15T 8£'5to\IRG\I~G II\£ CLUB'S 
TOLD 1-\ER RE.f\JT~TI~, PLIJS F'l'lE OtK~­
OOR CoD£ 

ITS !='OR ~a UKa£<:01'.1~ 
WI\EI\ 'S"E 
LL

"K OfFIQR, A-ND t>.. CEN'SilR£ 
R\J~EI> ~'i IN Tit£ CLUB ~K RlR ~Oi 
i\JMM~. 1>£\JOJRI~G SJSI£ WI-\£~ '{0\} 1\A.O 1\.\t <:1\MK£ . Hlo\M, t..t\t\1\ING £1..5f.? 
'­

ACROSS 33 Talked like a 59 0usted madman liberal Chinese 
1 Spotted horse 
official: 1989 5 Elec. units 62 Royal decree 
34 Hair-raising 
37 No, to Burns

9 Catamaran 63 Ending for right 
38 "-go bragh" 

13 Dugout 64 Basso Pinza 39Arrested 65 Makes lace 
14 Golfer Wayne 
40 English 66 Norms: Abbr. saint-historian 67 Poet Walter­15 Seaweed Mare41 Asian holiday derivative 42 Regales

16 Man who replaced 59 43 Untamed DOWN Across 44Saudi­
1 Indian rule 19 Queue 46 Redactors 2Japanese20 Inscribed pillar 46 She outwrestled sashes21 Study of China Thor 

aSmell-(be

23 Chinese so U.S. physicist suspicious)dynasty Alfred­4 Score minus 
25 Questionable 51 Great panda, one 26 Less 
China's gift to 5 Bullring sound the U.S. 

experienced 
6-and haws 

29lslamic 55 Macaw 7 Year in reign of 
chieftains saRobt. -·­
Ethelred II 8 Political faction in Ireland ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Auto race with numerous checkpoints 
~:::-t=:o.t=T.=-1 10 Exchange 27 Harder to find premium 
28Smash ..... 11 Diller's Broadway"" "husband" musical 121t follows the 
30 Winter month in deuce Barcelona17 Endocrinology 31 "M*A*S*H" role
topic 18 Western writer 32Ciosesa Grey falcon's eyes 35 Vane letters 

~!!~mm;tt•••• 22 "All-... 1931
8-7+=+=:=-+~= song 
36Gone up
~=+~=+:-:-~ 24 Marvelous 39 Accomplishes
r-t-:::-t::+.:-1 26 "Ninotchka" star's first name 40Revealed 
BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER 


Wt.'RE. vfRY P~ovD OF LISA AND T1Mt1Y. 1HE.!R BOT+J 'PHOTO' 
\[ 


42 Satiate 43-facias 
(sheriff's writ) 45 Engenders 47 Justino -, 
Met basso 57 Deep blue 49-water (on 60 Donovan's the carpet) secret agcy. 51 Departed 61 Gazelle 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
JAY HOSLER 

'\ 
q' 
., 



':1 i 
d) 
: Sports
page 24 Friday, September 7, 1990 
. ' 
: 
Holtz finds haopiness at ND 

By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 

It' 
'" 
The women's volleyball team hopes this weekend is as good

i 
I; as last weekend was bad. After dropping their first three i! matches of the year. the Irish 
i 
host the Notre Dame r Invitational at the Joyce ACC i Friday and Saturday.
1 
Notre Dame takes on Evansville at 8 p.m. on Friday. Saturday it's back to the court ,·;: early with a 10 a.m. match against Saint Louis and then a 
.~f 8 p.m. contest with the Broncos of Western Michigan University.
l·'I "I have no idea what to ex­
.;. ~ 
pect from these teams," said 

' 
head coach Art Lambert. "We played Western Michigan last , year. but they lost everybody and they have a very young 

He is 24-1 in the past two sea­sons, including a national championship in 1988. 
"Every other place there was something missing," Holtz said. "You think it's special here but you don't really understand what it's all about. It happens when you're part of the family. I don't want to be a well-known person. I n.ight be because there's no way you can't be at Notre Dame. I just want to coach here, live here and iden­tify with Notre Dame." 
In the early 1950s Holtz was one of 74 boys out for the East Liverpool, Ohio, High School football team. The number would ewmt.uallv dwindle to 26 
by the end of the season. 
That Holtz was one of those final 26 tells a lot about his character and also a lot about what he expects from those people around him. 
"Our high school coach was very tough, very demanding," Holtz said. "The only reason I didn't quit was that I couldn't figure out how I could tell my dad who was in the Pacific (in World War II) or my uncle who in the Battle of the Bulge that it was too tough. You just don't tell people who went through 

Jennifer Slosar 
team. Still, they're well coached and will be formidable for us. We haven't played Evansville or Saint Louis for three or four years so I don't know a thing about them." 
The Irish recovered from last weekend to have a good pro­ductive week of practice. 
"Things went very well this week," said Lambert. "I was pleased. Now we just have to the Battle of the Bulge that it 

was too tough." 
Even though he stuck with it, Holtz was never a great athlete. He was good enough to earn a scholarship to Kent State, but he was never a truly great ath­lete. He played two seasons at Kent State before an injury ended his career. 
"I used to always pray that God would make me a good athlete," Holtz said. "He never did. I wanted to be involved in the big games, the excitement. Then, He leads me to coaching and allows me to be involved in those big games. It's really amazing." 
Before coming to Notre Dame in 1986, Holtz had head coach­ing stops at William & Mary, North Carolina State, Arkansas and Minnesota. He played in 12 bowl games at those schools and boasted a combined record of 116-65-5. 
When Notre Dame called, Holtz answered on the first ring. It was the ultimate chal­lenge --restore the glory to an Irish program that had fallen on hard times. 
"I never really came here with any big expectations," Holtz see HOLTZ I page 19 

Ismail leading candidate for Heisman 
rated after a Notre Dame scoring blitz that ultimately gave them a 5-1. overtime victory. At least it did in the mind of Coach Berticelli. 
"Hopefully playing better at the end has given us some momentum," Berticelli said. "but the level of competition will be far higher than against Dayton." 
Tonight the Irish will face a team that has already notched two wins against quality opponents, as Duke downed Jacksonville and the University of North Carolina-Greensboro ear­lier this season. ' 
The Blue Devils return nine starters from a team that compiled a 10-5-1 record and rPached the Atlantic 
see SOCCER I page 20 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
There used to be an unwritten rule in college football that the Heisman Trophy would not be awarded to underclassmen. 
But with the recent exodus of juniors into the NFL, the senior Heisman Trophy candidate is quickly becoming an endan­gered species. 
This year is no exception as six underclassmen, including two sophomores, are consid­ered strong favorites to win college football's most presti­gious award. It is conceivable that all five invitations to February's trophy presentation in New York's plush Downtown Athletic Club could go to under­classmen. 
Leading the pack is Notre Dame's own Raghib Ismail, widely considered the most ex­citing player in the country. Ismail's versatility knows no bounds as he has been utilized in much the same way as former Irish standout and Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, seeing action at 

Volleyball to host Invitational 
transfer that to the court." 
"We practiced really well this week," agreed junior outside hiiter Jennifer Slosar, one of last weekend's bright spots who will be sidelined this week­end by a stress fracture in her right ankle. 
"Everyone was pretty upset after last weekend. We know those teams were very heatable. We could have won them all. We can really be an excellent team, it's just that so far our work in practice and the game have been totally different. 
"We can make the NCAAs if we pull together. Everybody has to have their best game all the time. We have to focus and put our minds to it." 
Those are two of things that are firm beliefs of Jennifer 
see SLOSAR I page 21 

The Post-Season Awards 
Part Four of Four 

flanker, running back, and kickoff and punt returner. 
Not one to waste time, Ismail began gathering admirers with his special teams play during his freshman campaign. Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship season. Ismail was awarded the NCAA statis­tical title for kickoff returns despite falling two returns short of the number needed to qualify. The NCAA awarded him the title because his 36.1-yard average would still have led the country even if two returns of zero yards were averaged into his total. 
Now a junior, Ismail returns as a consensus All-American and The Sporting News's num­ber-one preseason candidate for the Heisman. However, the one factor standing between Ismail and the Heisman Trophy 
Irish to play two in Carolina 
Bv RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 

New head soccer coach Mike Berticelli is about to experience two more firsts at Notre Dame -his first regular-season road trip and his first match with a Top 20 opponent as the coach of NO. The Irish travel to Durham, N.C., to participate in the Metropolitan Life Classic, where they will face 1Oth­ranked Duke tonight, and 17th-ranked N.C. State on Sunday. 
Notre Dame soccer fans had some cause for concern throughout much of last Saturday's opener versus Dayton, as the Irish were something less than sharp. Much of that concern evapo­is, ironically, the football. 
Nothing impresses the Heisman voters more than statistics, so Notre Dame must throw the ball more often in Ismail's direction if he is to at­tain the numbers expected of the most outstanding player in college football. Plus, opposing kickers, recalling Ismail's two touchdown returns in last year's Michigan game, have been placed under strict orders not to kick the ball anywhere near him. 
Texas A&M's explosive senior running back, Darren Lewis, may be Ismail's most worthy rival for the award. Lewis rushed for 961 yards and 11 touchdowns last season despite struggling through an early­season slump. A return to his 1988 form, in which he gained 1,692 yards, could mean a Heisman in Lewis's immediate future. 
Colorado's junior quarter­back, Darian Hagan, was an overwhelming favorite in many preseason publications, but his 
see ISMAIL I page 18 



