
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1990 VOL. XXIII NO. 12 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.N. President gives lecture at Notre Dame 
Garba talks of U.N. in 1990s 
By JOHN FISCHER 
News Writer 
The United Nations has been proven to be, and will continue to be, only as powerful as its member nations wish to make it, according to Joseph Garba, president of the U.N.'s General Assembly. 
The improved relations be­tween the two superpowers is a key element to a more influen­tial U.N. than those of the past, especially in the wake of the Iraq crisis, said Garba in his lecture at Washington Hall last night. 
President Garba spoke on the topics "New Politics Among Na­tions" and "Empowering the United Nations to Deal With The 1990s." 
Combined with the end of the Cold War, the Middle East problems and the review of the 
U.N. Charter should strengthen the organization, as "it is poised to achieve greater heights," Garba said. 
Garba criticized the countries who, in his words, "impede (the U.N.) for their own reasons and then criticize its shortcomings," but said that the nations of the world are now more willing to 
• Press conference I page 5 
accept the U.N. as a limited, yet useful organization. The shift from a bipolar situation in the world and in the Security Coun­cil to a multilateral worldview is a major factor in expecta­tions for greater cooperation; Garba said. 
"We are truly now a global village," Garba said. With this interdependence among nations comes less of an emphasis on military and political issues and a shift in focus to social and economic issues. 
"The growing atmosphere of peace can help social problems find solutions more quickly," in the U.N., Garba said. As indi­vidual nations' governments be­come more inward-looking, the U.N.'s contribution can be in­creased, he added. 
Multilateral issues such as the environment, infant mortality, hunger, and human rights are some of the more significant areas in which the U.N. can play a bigger role in the 1990s, stated Garba. 
see GARBA I page 5 


Endowment to help Hispanic Catholics in United States 

By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism has received a $294,000 grant from the Lilly Endowment to study Hispanic Catholics in the 20th century United States. 
"The history of Hispanics in this country has not been stud­ied enough," said Assistant Di­rector of the Cushwa Center Jaime Vidal. 
Vidal, a historical theologian educated at Fordham Univer­sity, will direct this study to concentrate on Hispanic his­tory. "You cannot get solutions that will work if you don't know what the history has been that produced the current situ­ation," said Vidal. 
The assimilation of Hispanics into the American Church is a situation of particular interest to Vidal. "It is a problem for the American Church because it has to deal with these people. It is a problem for Hispanics be­cause they have to deal with this church," he said. 
With the end of national parishes, the Hispanics had dif­ficulties with instant assimila­tion into the Catholic Church. 
The Hispanics have their own language and culture which they will not abandon. 
Demographers' predictions that half of the Catholics in the United States will be Hispanic in the near future challlenge the American Church to find a place for Hispanic culture. 
According to Vidal, the Cushwa Center had been previ­ously conducting a study on American parishes and the His­panic issue continuously sur­faced. This led the Center to make a proposal to the Lilly Foundation in order to conduct a study on Hispanics. 


Masked and militant 
AP Photo Masked Filipino demonstrators from the militant League of Filipino Students, wearing skeletal masks, display anti-American military base posters during a protest outside the American embassy in Manila Monday. The future of six U.S. military installations will be decided when talks begin September 17. 
The Lilly Endowment Inc. is an Indianapolis-based, private charitable foundation. The Lilly Endowment supports the causes of religion, education, and community development. 
The study will produce three volumes on the three major Hispanic groups. The first two volumes will concentrate on Hispanic history from 1960­1965 The third volume will deal with post-1965, perspec­tives for the future, and certain themes. 
The volumes will contain es­says by experts in each particu­lar field. Vidal will author the essay on Puerto Ricans. 
"There is a tremendous amount of sociology being done in this area, but hardly any his­tory,"said Vidal. He said, "One of the big problems we have is simply that the history of His­panics in this country have not been researched and written. So very often what people are doing is based on guesswork." 
According to Vidal, the three volumes will serve anyone who seriously wants to fmd out what really is there. "What is needed is the conclusion the reader will draw from the facts," he said. 

Year's first campus blood drive begins today at ACC 
By JEFF CABOTAJE 
News Writer 
The first campus blood drive of the year begins today from 3­6 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center, near the pro-shop. 
The goal of the drive is to meet St. Joseph County's needs through donations from the University. "There is no substi­tute for human blood," said Rebecca Baumann, the blood donor recruitment manager of the South Bend Medical Foun­dation (SBMF). 
"To ensure that people in St. Joseph County have blood when they need it, we need volunteer blood donors," she said. 
Baumann says she expects this year's blood drive to be as successful as last year's, in which students, staff, and fac­ulty donated 1500 pints of blood. 
Baumann said that the blood donated today will be dis­tributed to the hospitals in St. Joseph's County, which needs approximately 40-50 pints a day. In the county, 48 percent of the population are eligible as blood donors, yet only 5.5 per­cent actually donate, according to Baumann. 
"It (Notre Dame) is a really nice resource for the commu­nity. A proportionally higher percentage is donated by ND students to serve St. Joseph's County residents," noted Bau­mann. 
The main donors for this drive will be the hockey team. Coach Richard Schafer worked with the Central Blood Bank to bring the drive back this year. Last year, a blood drive spon­sored by the hockey team was cancelled due to a break out of measles and resultant vaccina­tions. 
-

......---------~~---­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
WEATHER

INSIDE COLUMN 
Men can learn from Year of Women 
For those of you who haven't yet heard, this is officiall) the Year of Women at Notre Dame. 

This celebration will L. Peter Yob allow those of my gender (males) to re-Asst. News Editor think their attitudes about women. 
There is no question that there are problems in the relations be­tween men and women here at ND. A report issued by student government last year noted male bias on campus, gender stereo­types, and a general lack of interaction be­tween male and female students. 
New evidence indicates that these prob­lems may stem from differences in the way men and women communicate. 
Deborah Tannen is the author of a book entitled "You Just Don't Understand," which documents the differences between the male and female culture in our society. Women, Tannen concludes, grow up in a different culture from men. 
For example, Tannen says little girls usu­ally have one best friend, who they play with indoors in sedate activities. Their "play" communication consists of sharing secrets, which creates bonds of friendship. 
Little boys are encouraged to play out­doors in groups. Their "play" communica­tion consists of using words to establish a hierarchy among their peers. 
These differences in communication styles carry on later in life and result in an inabil­ity to relate, on a social level, with members of the opposite sex. 
Unfortunately, in a male dominated cul­ture, women often suffer oppression due to this lack of understanding. 
Alice Walker writes in her novels, "The Color Purple," and "Temple of My Familiar," about gender bias in our culture. She writes from the perspective of minority women and captures, in a perfect example of acid delineation, the hardship endured by the victims of gender and racial bias. 
The surprise of those novels is that Walker subordinates the ill effects of race discrimination, which most of us view with contempt, to the cruelty caused by gender discrimination, which our society more easily accepts. Poor gender relations at best mean job discrimination against women and likely play a large role in violence against women. The loss of a rewarding relationship be­tween a man and a woman to poor under­standing is incalculable. That is why last year's report recom­mended that more emphasis should go to gender studies programs at ND. These give insight into women that men can't ordinarily get. In a male dominated society it's important for men to make an effort to understand what it means to be a women. Let's use this Year of Women to begin to make the effort. 
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Sial!:  Sports Scott Brutocoa  Systems Jon Stewart  
News  Scoreboard:  Gil Gomez  
Joe Moody Siobhan McCarthy  Frank Pastor Production  Graphics Mike Muldoon  
Accent  Beth Peterson  
Jennifer Guerin  Christine Anderson  Circulation  
Janelle Harrigan  VIewpoint  Kathleen O'Conner John O'Brian  
AtJ Design Amy Eckert  Julie Shepherd Kathy Welsh  Alison Cocks  
Kathleen O'Connor  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 

Yesterday's high: 82 
Yesterday's low: 65 
Nation's high: 117 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 28 
(Pinedale, Wyo.) 
Forecast: Partly sunny 
today with a high of 83. 
Tonight should be partly 
cloudy with a low of 64. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
~
® © ~ ~ m m Exxx~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
SMC/ND Wind Ensemble meets tonight from 7-9 
p.m. All students, faculty and staff welcome to play. Call Dr. Zae Munn, 284-4624 for more info. or call Saint Mary's Music Dept. Office, 284-4632. 
Shealla Muana. singer from Zaire, will perform as a part of Africa Week to... ght ut Stepan Center at 7:30 p.m. 
The Recyclin' Irish will meet tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns to organize volunteers and pick-up crews for the campus-wide recycling program. Anyone with questions about recycling should call 239­7668. 
ND/SMC Right To Life: First meeting at 7 p.m. tonight. Siegfried Lounge. 
Pre-Professional Society meeting tomorrow night, 7:30p.m., in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Handouts will also be given concerning changes on the new spring MCAT. Direct questions to Tom, 283-1128; Veronica, 283­4758; or Anita,_283-4952. 
Undergraduate Schools Committee will hold training sessions tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of Hayes-Healy. New members need to at­tend only one session. Past participants who want to visit their hi~h schools again this year can stop by between 7-8 p.m.to sign up. 
WORLD 

Pizza Hut's first two Soviet restaurants are set to Pope John Paul II ended a tour of four African na­open Tuesday in Moscow. Pizza Hut expects to serve tions Monday by blessing a huge, controversial basilica 50,000 customers a week, about seven times the turnover criticized as needlessly opulent. Police clubbed some peo­of any Pizza Hut in the United States. McDonald's ple in the crush of worshipers pushing out of the basilica Moscow outlet still sells 5,000 burgers an hour and the after the pope left. This once-prosperous West African lunchtime lineup is 90 minutes long. Moscow's opening nation is now suffering its worst economic crisis in 30 comes one day after Pizza Hut's first restaurant opened years of independence. President Houphouet-Boigny's in Beijing. Pizza there costs the Chinese "almost one-opponents accused him of misappropriating state money sixth of my salary. I have to save before I can bring my 3-for the project.Whatever the cost, critics have said the year-old son here," said one man outside. money would have been better spent on education and 
health care for the poor. 
NATIONAL 

Barbara Bush said the standoff in the Middle East is the worst crisis Bush has faced in the 20 months of his presidency. She expressed hope that a way would be found to avert war. Bush also said that the president is handling the crisis with equanimity and keeping a "wonderful" disposi­tion. She advised American women 

soldiers in Saudi Arabia chafing under Saudi restrictions to "stick with the customs of the country," and spoke of her desire to help out fellow Americans trapped within the hostile nation. 
Jet fuel COStS have soared since Iraq invaded Kuwait, but it's anyone's guess whether an airline ticket will cost more or less in coming months. "Indications are that they're going up," said Raymond Neidl, an airline analyst with Dillon, Read & Co. Inc. The latest price changes are a temporary round of cheaper fares to Europe, with Trans World and Northwest announcing over the weekend that they were offering some special low fares on trans-At­lantic flights for fall and winter tickets purchased by Sept. 21. USAir and Pan Am said they would follow suit. 
INDIANA 

A 9-year-old Goshen girl suffered second-degree burns on her face and arms Monday night as her mother washed her hair with gasoline to get rid of head lice, police said. Patrolman Stuart Smith said the pilot light on a nearby gas stove apparently ignited the fumes and caught the girl's hair on fire. She was listed in serious but stable condition at St. Joseph Hospital's burn center in Fort Wayne. 
Gov. Evan Bayh said Monday the state should spend more money to combat drug abuse, but he can't support a study committee's recommendation to increase beer and wine taxes by $21 million to help fund the drug war. Bayh received the recommendation to raise the beer tax to 28 cents a gallon and the wine tariff to 77 cents per gallon. 
MARKET UPDATE 


NYSEir.$~ 143.e."  +33.62  
S&P Composite  
321.63  • 1.77  

Dow Jones Industrials 2.615.59 +3.96 Precious Metals Gold f-$10.90to $ 378.60/oz. 
Sliver + .05¢ to $ 4.755/ oz. 
ALMANAC 
On September 11 : eln 1789: Alexander Hamilton was appointed the first U.S. Sec­retary of the Treasury. eln 1978: Georgi Markov, a Bul­garian defector, died at a British hospital four days after he was stabbed by a man wielding a poi­soned umbrella tip. eln 1985: Pete Rose of the 
Cincinnati Reds cracked career hit number 4,192 off Eric Show of the San Diego Padres, eclipsing the 
record held by Ty Cobb. eTen years ago: Cuban diplomat 
Felix Garcia-Rodriguez, a United 
Nations attache, was shot and 
killed as he drove down a New 
York City street in an attack 
claimed by the militant anti-com­
munist group Omega Seven. 


Tuesday, September 11 , 1990 The Observer page 3 
Roemer discusses need fo1r student awareness 


By CHRIS WILKINSON News Writer 
Giving back to the commu­nity is the driving force behind the campaign of Tim Roemer, the Democratic Congressional candidate from the third Indi­ana Congressional district. 
If elected, Roemer would rep­resent Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, which are in-eluded in Indiana's third dis­trict. 
As part of his campaign against incumbent Congress­man John Hiler, Roemer spoke as a guest of the Dillon Hall Lecture Series. During his talk he spelled out his campaign platform, but also stressed the need for Notre Dame students to become involved and aware of public service. 
Roemer, a Notre Dame grad­uate, touched upon many of to­day's concerns including educa­tion, health care, the environ­ment and civil rights. 
In the field of education, he said he would like to see more funds made available to quali­fied students. He would en­courage businesses to make more aprentiships and scholar­
ships available. Roemer also When asked about the money programs that use existing that he supported President George Bush's actions. He en­
,.............................................................................................................'1 
couraged the United States to take a lead in making the United Nations a more effective power in the world. He would like to see the U.S. and the So­
~ ~ [ENTER NOWj ~ 
viet Union acting together in 
I ~ 
II ;~ 

I ~ I 
I! z. 
~  .  ENTER IN THE NVA OFFICE, JACC  
I  
~  DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 13  

~'-'-''-''-'-'-'-'-,.'-'-'-'-'-,.''-'-'-'-''-'-''-'-''-'-'-~~.._ 
TONIGHT African Cultural &Musical Evening 
African Rhythms and Dances by the Jeke Band of Chicago Stepan Center 7:30 pm free of charge 
WEDNESDAY,SEPTEMBER12 

Panel Discussion & Reception Recent Political Developments in Southern Africa 
Engineering Auditorium 7:30 pm 
IH CROSS COUNTRY 



CA:;:~~ ~~~~~~!~LL 
GRAD/FAC. SOCCER CAMPUSGOLF CAMPUS RUN AND FUN 
believes that a fair balance of grants and loans must be found for the middle-class student. For Roemer, "money is a prior­ity." 
The fact that 12 million chil­dren and 37 million adults in this country do not receive ade­quate health services is of con­cern to Roemer. He is also wor­ried about senior citizens who do not receive proper nutrition because of cuts in nutrition programs. Roemer said, "we can do better as a people who care about senior citizens and young people." 
Roemer stressed to those in attendance that they are the "hope in the future." He spoke of the environment and civil rights and stressed the need for active participation from this generation of students. Roemer believes that "over the last ten years... we've lost ground on civil rights," and encouraged everyone to take responsibility. 
Roemer said that if things seem tough, we all must re­member that "we can climb this mountain together... If you get involved, if you make it your battle too... together we can do it." 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

Democratic Congressional candidate Tim Roemer speaks with ND students {from left to right) Kevin Gruben and Travis Reindl at the Dillon Hall Lecture Series last night. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's college are in­cluded in the third district, which Roemer, an ND alumnus, would represent if elected to office. 
for his proposals,, Roemer re­money more wisely need to be sponded that the government established. does not necessarily need to On world politics, specifically raise taxes. He said that new the Persian Gulf, Roemer said 
I 
the Gulf, and hopes that Japan can be made to carry a larger 
I
IF~"';;lt;;b;;ri;;ngs~out;;;;th;;e;;be;;st;;i;;n
aJ;;I;;o;;iu;;s~~v 
I 
~ Ireland Program 
InformationI Sessions 
ND SMC 
I 
I! Tuesday, Sept. 11 Wednesday, Sept. 12 ~ 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. Montgomery Theatre 304 Haggar CC 1st Floor, LaFortune 
~ .._,.iC===============~~~~E~W~E~L~C~O~ME~==========~ 
share of the financial burden resulting from the Gulf crisis. 
After receiving an under­graduate degree from the Uni­versity of California, Roemer attended Notre Dame's gradu­ate school. While at Notre Dame, he served as assistant rector of Grace hall. He has worked for Indiana Congress­man John Brademas and Ari­zona Senator Dennis Decon Cini in Washington D.C. 
U.S. 
DEPARTMENr OF STATE 

U.S. 
INFORMATION AGENCY 

U.S. 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 


Career Opportunity 
"I liE FOREIGN SUn'll'E \\ RITTEN EX.\:\ll"'iATION 
Saturday, October 27, 1990 
Applicalions must be received by September 21, 1990 
The Wriaen Examinllicn il the initial sup in amplina for a caroc:r • a Fon:ign Service OffiCCI'. 
~for the c:uminaboo rmJI be: 
• 
At lcut 20 yean 1*1 01 the dale c:l the euminalion 

• 
UniJel s-a c:iWr:ns 

• 
Avaibble far worldwide auipmc:nt 


You may obtain flllther inforrnalim and Ill ~from )'WI" CarnpJs i'lacaned Office or by callina am~ rode (7113) 87~7490. or by wrilin1: 
The Recruibnent Division 
u.s. Dr:panmcrt c:l Slale 
P.O.Ib 9317 Arlin&ton. Vi!Jinia 22209 
• AN EQuAL o..o.moon EMI'Lomt • 

.... 
page 4 
Senate approves appointees 
By PETER AMEND News Writer 
The Student Senate approved an amendment to the under­graduate constitution this week. 
The amendment states that in the absence of a class officer, the president of the Student Senate will hold that officer's position. 
The senate approved Judicial Coordinator Vinny Sanchez's choice of review board ap­pointees, which are listed be­low. 
The faculty appointees are: 
•Katharina 
Blackstead, asso­ciate librarian 

•Angie 
Chamblee, assistant dean, Freshman Year of Studies 


•Joseph Huebner, librarian 
•John Robinson, director of Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government 
The administrative ap­pointees are: 
•Marilyn 
Bury, assistant di­rector, Career and Placement Services 

•Father 
Thomas King, rector, Zahm Hall 

•Sister 
Maureen Minihane, rector, Siegfried Hall 

•Robert 
Mundy, assistant di­rector, Undergraduate Admis­sions 


The student appointees, not approved by Senate, are: 
•Melissa 
Smith 

•Laura 
Kirchofer 

•Victor 
DeFrancis 



The fourth student has not yet been appointed. 

A.P. PhOto

Valdez repaired, renamed 
The Exxon Mediterranean, formerly the Exxon Valdez, returns to a ship repair dock in San Diego. Since running aground in Alaska last year, the ship has undergone a year's worth of renovations. 

ND Law 'neutral' on abortion
Housekeepers honored with cake and punch 
By MEGAN JUNIUS to keep a positive outlook on News Writer such a necessary job. "Without housekeepers, a 
The National Executive hotel would be unable to ex­Housekeepers Association is ist," Couch said. sponsoring National House­keepers' week from Septem­This is the first year in ber 9-15. which this occasion has been 
celebrated on campus. 

Joe Couch, Executive Couch said that it will be a Housekeeper of the Morris pleasant suprise to the Inn, said, "This is a full week housekeepers. to thank housekeepers for a job well done. This week just "I don't think they know shows a bit of appreciation." much about it," Couch said. Cake and punch will be served at the Morris Inn in National Housekeepers' 
honor of housekeepers. Week has existed since 1930, when Margaret Barnes 
Couch said the purpose of founded the National Execu­this week is to help build the tive Housekeepers Associa­morale of housekeepers and tion in New York City. 
By PETER AMEND News Writer 

Notre Dame Law School agrees with the America Board Association's revised stance of neutrality on the abortion issue. 
The ABA's House of Dele­gates, a body within the ABA that represents the many com­ponents of the association, which voted February to be in favor of abortion rights. ND Law School threatened to with­draw their faculty membership if the ABA did not rescind their position by the next ABA con­vention, which was held in Au­gust. 
In a speech given at the ABA Convention by the David Link, dean of the Notre Dame Law School, said: 
As an organization, we will have taken a position that is contrary to many dissenting voices in the organization-voices that emanate from sincere religious, scientific, medical and personal convictions. If we quiet those voices of dissent by prematurely becoming an organizational partisan, we will have made this an inappropriate place to continue the discussions of all of the im­portant issues underlying 106C (their Pro-Choice stance). 
Link said the ABA is "the spokesperson for the legal pro­fession and if it files a brief be­fore the Supreme Court on any subject, it should show some weight." 
Link is on the board of a na­tional organization, which deals specifically with the issue of abortion. He said there is not enough of a consensus within the ABA on abortion yet and therefore a stance of neutrality is appropriate. 
"I would be just as worried about this (taking a specific stance on abortion) if they would come out with a position that I agreed with," said Link. "I think they should do that as individuals, until such a time when there is a consensus within the ABA." Fernand Dutile, associate dean of the law school, said the ABA should not have taken an Insti­tutional position to begin with. 


Campus Ministry and You 
~­
OFFICEOF 
Want to be on National TV? Here's your chance! 
On September 20, 1990, 2:30 PM Live Interactive Video Conference: "Related, Roomated: Peered and Paired" 
Campus Ministry invites you to join us at the telephone end of a live, retelevised call-in show. The show originates in Washington, D.C. and features Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C. ofthe Campus Ministry staff. He will be giving a presentation on relationships and would like you to call in your questions, right during the show! 
Interested? Give Campus Ministry a call at 239-7800 and reserve a place for the live viewing. Then get your friends to watch you on videotape at a later date! More information next week, but call now! 
i0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
UPCOMING EVENTS 
Sacred Heart Church Mass: Saturday, Sept. 15 5:00pm Rev. Daniel Jenky, CSC; Sunday, Sept. 16 
10:00 am Bishop John D'Arcy, 11:45am Rev. Daniel Jenky, CSC 
Sunday September 16-7pm in the ND Room of LaFortune: Information on Confirmation 
Brought to you wt:ekly by the OHice of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
The Observ1er page 5 


Garba: Sanctions are good 
U.N. President delivers press conference 

Major General Joseph Garba, president of the General Assembly of the United Nations, believes that the U.N.-initiated trade embargo against Iraq will not be violated because "feelings against the actions by Saddam are so strong.~ 
Also, countries will not break the embargo with Iraq because of the fear of "sanctions," from the U.N., which Garba said would be "sufficient." His re­marks were made yesterday at a press conference at Notre Dame. 
Garba addressed Hussein's recent proposal to give Iraqi oil to underdeveloped third world countries. "It would be a viola­tion (of the trade embargo)," he said. "No third world country will accept because it would be a quid pro qou." 
According to Garba, "Iraqi oil 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey  is not so critical to third world  
Christophe Kougniazonde, president of Notre Dame African Students  countries. There  are  other  
Association, speaks before introducing Joseph Garba at last night's  sources of oil."  
lecture contributing to  Africa Week.  He also discussed the status  
of those fleeing Iraq to Jordan.  

·--~--=-~-=Ift:_=='JI.DI:_.['-=~--:"~­--­
_VI:J.=­

NEW YORK (AP) -· Average scores on the ACT, the predom­inant college-entrance exam in 
is looking for students interested in the 
28 states, were unchanged in 1989-90, but minority students
paid position of 
continued to improve, the test's publishers reported Monday.

Circulation Driver 
The average nationa,l compos­
ite score among 817,1[)96 grad­
uating high school students was
Applicants must be available MWF between 
20.6, on a scale of 1-36, 
according to American College 
Testing, the Iowa City, Iowa­
11 :00 and 1 :00 a.m. If you are interested, 
contact Bill O'Rourke or Kathleen O'Connor 
based organization that admin­
at 239-5303 or stop by The Observer office 
isters the exam. Students in 1990 took a new
on 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
form of the test, called the "Enhanced ACT Assessment," "Are they refugees?" he asked. "I think they are really evac­uees." 

Garba did not specify what, if anything, the U.N. intended to do for the "evacuees." "These are people in transit," he said, noting that "several countries are planning unilateral action." 
Garba discussed the recent 
U.S. and Soviet summit in Fin­land. He praised the coopera­tion between the superpowers, but expressed concern that So­viet President Mikhail Gor­bachev failed to specify a Soviet role in the Gulf crisis. "The joint statement (by the U.S. and U.S.S.R.) underscores that the cold war is over," Garb a said. Now, "the superpowers can find some common ground in this period of international crisis," he said. 
He criticized Gorbachev, whom Garba believes, "ought to give stronger signals," about the U.S.S.R.'s position on the gulf crisis. According to Garba, "we all know he has economic troubles," but "there is a lot he can do. My hope is that he (Gorbachev) will be more definitve in what he will do," Garba said. 
"The U.N. was very active in finding a solution to the Iran­Iraq war," Garba said, referring to the war between the those countries that ended in 1988. The U.N. "will strongly oppose," Iran if it attempts to break the embargo on Iraq. 
According to Garba, there has been renewed confidence in the 
U.N. 
over the past year. "U.N. peacekeeping forces won the Nobel Prize," he said, in reference to the 1988 award for peace. There is a possibility of "putting forces in the gulf under 

U.N. 
command," but, he added, "how practical that is, I don't know." 


"The U.N. is holding itself back and poised to do whatever needs to be done," Garb a said. 
Garba, who is Nigerian, was at Notre Dame as part of African Awareness Week. Garba formerly served as a member of Nigeria's contingent to the United Nation's Peace Keeping Force and as Nigeria's foreign minister. 
Minority ACT scores continue to improve 
and therefore results were not directly comparable to previous years. 
But ACT officials calculated that the scores from last year and the previous school year, which used the older version, were unchanged. 
ACT averages have been practically unchanged for the last five years and offer fresh evidence that school reform may have stagnated. 
Two weeks ago, the College Board -which sponsors the SAT, the predominant college entrance test in the remaining 22 states -reported averages 
SUBWAY DELIVERS TO YOU 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight every day of the week. 






~l1l;~II& 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
on the verbal section of the ·test had sunk to their lowest levels in a decade, and math scores were unchanged for the fourth straight year. 
The ACT is a four-part exam testing English, mathematics, reading ability and scientific reasoning. 
The SAT and ACT are sup­posed to test a student's readi­ness for college. But the ACT is generally considered a broader test of high school mastery than the SAT, which tests a more circumscribed set of math, reading and language skills 
Garba 
continued from page 1 
The Iraq invasion of Kuwait proved, however, that the end of the Cold War did not signal the last of the military issues the U.N. must deal with. The superpower cooperation has greatly strengthened the U.N.'s position on this issue, Garba said. 
Five resolutions regarding the Iraq crisis have passed the Security Council unanimously. With the approval of the US and USSR, this organization has endorsed sanctions on Iraq as well as the use of force to protect the tenets of these reso­lutions. 
Garba personally condemned the actions of Iraq, saying "(They) offended sensibilities and defied every principle for which the U.N. stands." 
Correction 

In an article about a local Bed 'N Breakfast registry in Monday's Observer the fol­lowing paragraph was omitted from the story: 
Although the Registry is not listed in the Yellow Pages, it holds a membership with the Chamber of Commerce of Saint Joseph County. For more information call 291­7153. 
.-------------!!""-.........._....---,---~---------~--.-..=-·---~~-w--~-~ ~--~-------------~---~---­
.... 

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990 

Saddam offers oil to win support from other nations 
(AP) Saddam Hussein dent Hafez Assad. The United offered free oil to developing States and Syria have long­nations Monday in a bid to standing differences over hu­win their support and man rights and terrorism but circumvent a U.N. trade have formed a makeshift al­embargo, and he got a boost liance during the gulf crisis. from a former enemy when Iran agreed to restore full Syria beefed up its contribu­diplomatic ties. tion to the multinational force 
The White House character­facing Iraq, saying it was ized both developments as sending more troops to Saudi signs the Iraqi president is Arabia at the desert growing desperate and kingdom's request. Diplomatic "grasping at any straw he can sources estimate that Syria fmd." has already sent 4-5,000 
Secretary of State James combat troops to the kingdom. Baker, briefing NATO ministers on the weekend In other developments Mon­U.S.-Soviet summit, asked the day: allies to send ground troops • Baker told reporters Saudi into the Persian Gulf region -Arabia, the United Arab Emi­even as a symbolic presence rates and the exiled govern­-to increase pressure on ment of Kuwait would con­Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait. tribute a combined $12 billion There were no immediate to help defray the cost of the offers. U.S. buildup in the gulf and to 
Baker also announced he assist poorer nations hurt by 
Out of Kuwait-a young boy hugs a stuffed teddy bear as he waits at the Charleston International Airport
would visit Syria to coordinate the U.N. trade embargo on 
after going through customs on Sunday. The Northwest flight brought some 300 Americans home to safety.
opposition to Iraq with Presi-Iraqi goods. 

Bush and Gorbachev end the Helsinki summit as allies 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­to each other. And, by their own toward the Soviet leader's mo­think, enhances mutual under­relationship, the president dents Bush and Gorbachev may accounts, the presidents of the tives early in his term and standing." suggested. not be on a "George" and world's two superpowers say whose press spokesman once Later, Bush told reporters 
"Mikhail" basis, but their rela­they trust each other more and called Gorbachev a "drugstore aboard Air Force One that Even so, there's little hint that tionship seems to be evolving more. cowboy," now says the two have Gorbachev "felt confident, he the two presidents are de­into a comfortable one -espe­"At each meeting we move reached a level of "mutual projected a certain confidence." veloping into fast friends or that cially now that they've ended a forward, we enrich our rela­understanding." they are able to wile away their summit as allies. tionship," Mikhail S. Gorbachev "Neither of us, when we talk, Even in discussing economic hours in small talk. It's just not 
Bush's personal encounters said after the two leaders try to hide our differences," problems within the Soviet that kind of relationship. 
with Gorbachev remain a little ended their Sunday summit in Bush said at Sunday's conclud­Union, Gorbachev "felt very on the staid side by Bush's Helsinki with a statement of ing news conference with Gor­open about doing it," Bush said. In fact, personal relations usual standards for palling unity condemning Iraq's occu­bachev. "Neither of us try to between the two men remain a around with world leaders, as­pation of Kuwait. indicate that we look at exactly The informality of last De­bit on the formal side, largely sociates of the president sug­"And I think I should say that every problem exactly the same cember's shipboard summit at because Gorbachev is inclined 
gest. we increased our trust," Gor­way. But the very fact that we Malta and last June's horseshoe to want to get right down to But the two leaders seem to bachev added. can talk with that degree of pitching session at Camp David work, say aides who spoke on be settling in and getting used Bush, who voiced skepticism frankness without rancor, I helped nurture their developing the condition of anonymity. 


The Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For information: 239-5293) 
NOTE: Events will be held at the Center for Social Concerns, unless otherwise noted. 
Oct. 7 -Sunday Crop Walk 11:45am Mass at Sacred Heart Church (i;,,\&Jtml Sept. 12-Wednesday Semester Break Seminars -Information Night 
1:00pm Registration at St. Joseph High School -~-7:00-9:00 pm 2:00-5:00 pm 6 km. walk to raise money for hunger relief (25% to South Bend;fi,\,!.§,.LW 75% overseas) SIGN UP TO WALK WITH DORM REPS. 
Sept. 13 -Thursday Hospital Lunch for El Campito Day Care 11:30 am-1:00pm 
OCT. 9-Tuesday Senior Rap Up Registration Deadline 
Sept. 14 -Friday Friday Forum for faculty and staff: Oct. 9 -Tuesday Urban Plunge Info Meeting 12:15-1:00pm "Notre Dame & the Year of Women"-Dean Eileen Kolman 6:30pm(Theme for the series is The Year of Women) Oct. 9 -Tuesday Appalachian Seminar Orientation MeetingSept. 15 -Saturday Center open prior to Michigan game 7:30-9:30 pm 5:30-7:30 pm Oct. 10 -Wednesday Community Service Commissioners Meeting Sept. 26 -Wednesday Presentation by Patricia Livingston (To be announced) 4:30pmSponsored with Year of Women Oct. 1o -Wednesday Washington Seminar Orientaion MeetingSept. 29 -Saturday Center open prior to Purdue game 7:00-9:00 pm 10:00-11 :45 am Oct. 11 -Thursday Hospitlaity Lunch for Hispanic Women's Coalition Oct. 2-Tuesday Post-Graduation Opportunities Fair 11:30 am-1:00pm7:00-9:00 pm Oct. 13 -Saturday Center open prior to Air Force game Oct. 3 -Wednesday Peace Corps Recruitment Presentation 10:00-11:45 am7:00-9:00 pm Oct. 16 -Tuesday Appalachian Seminar Orientation MeetingOct. 4-Thursday Feast of St. Francis Celebration (To be announced) 7:30-9:30 pm 
Oct. 5 -Friday Friday Forum for faculty and staff: Oct. 17 -Wednesday Urban Plunge Registration Deadline 
12:15-1:00 pm "A 'Catholic Feminist': Oxymoron?"-Regina Coli, C.S.J., Director, Field Education, Dept. of Theology, (Theme for the 
Oct. 17-Wednesday Washington Seminar Orientation Meetingseries is The Year of Women) 7:00-9:00 pm 
Oct. 6 -Saturday Center open prior to Stanford game Oct. 20 -Saturday Center open prior to Miami game 10:00-11:45am 12:00-2:00 pm Post-Game OPEN HOUSE for Center alumni & friends Oct. 20-28 Mid-semester Break 
Oct. 21-26 CSC Seminar Trips: 
Appalachian Seminar Washington, D.C. Seminar Cultural Diversity Seminar (Chicago) Women, Church & Society Seminar (Chicago) 



Nurture Life Through Service 

Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
The Observer page 7 


Energy Department says oil will last through winter 

Immigrants commemorated 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Energy Department officials cautiously predicted Monday that fuel oil supplies will be adequate this winter -but only if the weather isn't severe, if re­fineries avoid operating prob­lems and if Mideast develop­ments don't disrupt oil ship­ments further. 
Several congressmen com­plained that the assessment was based on "rosy assump­tions" and suggested that it provides little comfort to Americans relying on oil to heat homes and factories. 
"There now is a very small margin of safety," said Rep. Philip Sharp, D-Ind. and chair­man of the House energy and power subcommittee. The En­ergy Department "tends to un­derestimate what can go wrong," he complained. 
Calvin Kent, head of the department's Energy Informa­tion Administration, told 
is seeking people for the paid position of: Ad Designer If you are interested and have Monday or Wednesday afternoons free, call Amy Eckert at 239-5303 or 283-4624. 
Happy 

2lst Franlc 
Love, 

i 
DISCUSSION

Mom and 

L AND SLIDE PRESENTATION PROFESSOR MARIA ROSA OLIVERA·WILIIAMS

Dad Tyler 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER II, 1990 
4:30 P.M. ROOM 108 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE -3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE Available positions include: 
Exec. Coordinator  Secretary Chairman  HotE~ls: Hospitality Chairman  
Dinner Chairman  Mass Chairman  Hall parties Chairman  
Brunch Chairman  Workshop Chairman  
Cocktail Chairman  Finance Chairman  

Help make JPW 1991 one of the best weekends of your experience!! APPLICATIONS DUE SEPTEMUER 17 
Sharp's subcommittee that the supply of refined petroleum products -gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel -will be tight with refineries producing near their capacities. 
But he said U.S. petroleum stocks "appear adequate." The agency estimated that while the worldwide crude oil shortage is expected to still be about 1 mil­lion barrels a day during the last three months of the year, "the shortage can be handled" as higher prices dampen de­mand. 
Kent said significant supply problems could emerge if de­velopments in the Mideast fur­ther reduce supplies or if the winter is abnormally cold. Op­erational problems at refiner­ies, which have been running at better than 96 percent of ca­pacity, and extensive hoarding could cause localized shortages, he suggested. 
JJUJWIIcrD~ ~ JJIPIJY ~J!~CCWIIWJE CCcrDmmm:r~:rJE~ 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE 
The agency collects and ana­lyzes world energy data. 
Sharp and several other con­gressmen reiterated their call for President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The president should consider "at least a modest" drawdown of the 590-million barrel reserve "to get confidence up and hopefully force prices down," Sharp said. 
The Bush administration has said tapping the reserve is not needed at this time. Energy De­partment offieials said last week the reserves will be used if there are "significant supply interruptions." 
Rep. Terry Bruce, D-Ill., said he was "nervous" about the slim margin in :refining capac­ity. "I" fear we will run out of heating oil, gasoline and jet fuel," said Bruce. 
But Kent said the capacity to refine crude, both in the United States and elsewhere, "appears to be adequate . . . and will re­main so over the next three to six months." 
He said Kuwait's refining ca­pacity could be replaced by in­creases elsewhere and rejected suggestions by some energy ex­perts that the heavier crude that will replace the oil lost from Iraq and Kuwait might cause refinery operating prob­lems. 
Dewey Mark, speaking for the National Petroleum Refiners Association, said he wasn't as certain that lost imports of re­fined products could be made up. "The supply balance is tight." 
"As a refinery, when you're operating at 90 percent you're effectively running wide open," he told the subcommittee. 
Kent gave these assessments on the expected supply of vari­ous refined crude oil products: 
•Heating Oil-Current stocks are "well above normal" and rising. Supplies in the North­east, which relies heavily on oil to heat homes and factories, are 16 percent above last year. The stocks "appear to be ade­quate barring any unusually cold weather or refmery break­downs." 


Margarethe Tiedemann, 1 01, points to her name on the American Immigrant Wall of Honor at the Ellis Island Museum in New York Sunday. Tiedemann came to America via Ellis Island in 1903. 
MEXICO CITY 
SPRING 1991 OR 1~91-92 ACADEMIC YE.\Il 
A.P. Photo 
... WITH THE PORTABI.E 
KOLDWAVE PERSONAL COOLER! 
• 
Installs in minutes 

• 
Fully portable w/ easy roll casters 

• 
Cools and dehumi­difies. 

• 
6,000 BTU's: Runs on standard 115-V power. 

• 
Great for apts. 

• 
Comes complete w/ exhaust dud adapt 


kit 
*Moves from room to room for cool com­fort anywhere. 
*Provides cooling for jmpossible areas. 
CR Campbell 
& SonSINC. 
3010 Mllh-eluo Ave. 287-1566
OKo'...___. 
1'111 Cool W,_. om.ts ~!!_·r_ 

The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990
page 8 

Cambodia strives for end to 11-year old civil war 
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) -be represented in a governing Cambodia's Vietnamese-backed council. government and leaders of A joint statement said Hun rebel factions agreed Monday Sen's government would get six to a U.N. peace plan that calls seats on the so-called Supreme for power-sharing and free National Council. Six others elections. seats would be shared by the 
resistance coalition. A 13th seat 
Cambodia Premier Hun Sen is reserved for Prince Norodom said a date for a cease-fire had Sihanouk, leader of the rebel not been worked out, but all coalition. sides appeared optimistic fol­lowing two days of talks to end The council is expected to make the 11-year-old civil war. its first formal appearance 
"We have not reached peace Sept. 18 at the U.N. General yet ... but we have the frame­Assembly seat now held by the work," said Son Sann, former rebel coalition. Cambodian premier and leader of the Khmer People's National The council would cede much Liberation Front, part of the of its authority to the United three-party guerrilla force. Nations, which would adminis­
ter the country until free elec­
Efforts to reach a peace ac­tions. U.N. officials have said up cord since July 1988 had failed to 10,000 troops and 10,000 when the factions disagreed civilian personnel could be sent about power-sharing issues. to Cambodia to administer the 
Raisa Gorb~chev _holds a baby, Tho~as_Stromberg, Sunday as she toured part of Helsinki. Gorbachev
Under the approved U.N. plan, peace plan and oversee elec­
each of the four factions would tions. 





Class 
continued from page 12 
HELP! I NEED TV\J fiX FOR 
MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR 
THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ 
CALL GUY AT X1750 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S 
CALL 273·1364 
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS II!!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT 
284-4350 
I am looking to trade 4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If interested, call Hugh at 233-6740. 
DESPERATEIIIII!! 
I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! 
I need 10, thafs right 10 
Miami tix (student or GA's) 
Every ticket helps. Family coming 
to see game. 
Call Bryan at 2266 
Hey!! We still need Michigan 
tickets. x4189 Molly 
NEED: 2 Michigan GAs or 1stud 
Top Dollar Paid 
Big Bucks 
Name Your Price 
Wealthy Uncle 
If any of these phrases catches 
your eye, please call Andrew @ 1563 
I need 1 MIAMI stud. ticket call Mike at x1701 
Wealthy Alumni need Michigan 
GAs. 
Call Matt x2045 Pat (405)332-3411) $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Needed: USC GA's. Will take any 
amount. Contact Scott: 283-1818. 
Needed: 2 Penn State GA's. Contact Greg at 283·1517. 
I need one student Michigan ticket. Willing to pay big 
money. Call Tim: #2281 
I need 2 Mich. Stud. tix Will pay very good $$$ 
Please call Drew @ 1789 
2 miami ga's-make offer 237­0788 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? 
ME TOO 

4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami fans that need humbling. 
272-8954 Amy 
I have 2 stud tix for all NO home games 271-0999 Best Offer 
HELP!Ill NEED 3 MIAMI and 1 PSU tix for the family. Will pay top $ for the tix! call 4867 and ask for Amy 
Alumni dad coming from Calif. 
NEED one mich. GA 
1930 

ME TOO! NEED MICH TIX! STUD & GA --TIM 271-8795 
BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE FOR2MIAMIGA'S. BOBAT1­800-875-4525. 
NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA 
CALL COLLECT 313-663-4830 M-TH AFTER 8:15PM F-SUN ANY TIME 
NEED ALL THE STANDFORD TIX I CAN GET. GA's & stud. CALL DENNIS X2384 
Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket Call Chris X2274 
I would like student tiCkets for all home games, esp. for Penn St.!!!! Call Jeff x1747 
Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm little, so DON'T HURT MElli And give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for Stanford and Purdue. x2632 
I need a Michigan student tic. You need money. Call me. Jay x2290 
HELP!!!! No, I don't need Miami tickets.....I really, really need Air Force tickets and I'm dead if I don't get 'emI Please call Lynne@ X2687. 
A CORPORATE PROBLEM­NEED 8 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. WILL PAY$. 1-262-4990. 
NEED ONE TICKET!!I WILL PAY$$$!!!-NEED 1 G.A. TICKET FOR AIR FORCE OR PENN STATE. CALL SHANA 2735!11 
DEATH will come 1y way if I don't get 2 PURDUE G1 ~1 Help me. Call Steve X2478 
WANTED DESPAR. . fEL Y: 
4 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICS WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR!! CALL JIM AT 277-9358 
WANTED 1 set of season tickets. Will pay for tickets plus $75.00. Call Jon at 237-9533. 
My little bro is coming and I need a Stanford ticket for him. Call Bill @ 1584. 
I need MICH tix Jeff x3320 
WE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OF STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3 USC TIX! Call ALYSSA or NANCY x3822 
WANTED: ANY GAMES TIX GA'S OR STUDS. CALL AARON #1581 
I need your MICH tix puh-LEEZE! x4272 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
1 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICKET NEEDED CHRISx1172 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED MICH. TIX ! Stu or GA. -Tom #3502. 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TIX OR GA'S FOR THE PURDUE AND STANFORD GAMES. CALL CHRIS AT X2773. 
went shoppmg While her husband, M1kha1l Gorbachev, met with Bush for the summit. 
NEED MIAMI TI:X_-------~1H=A~V:E~S~T~U~D~T~IX:-:FO::R~H~O:M:E~---:A:tt:e:nt:io:n::N;D:/S:M:C:-:St~u=de:n:ts:---~;:::~========~ 
WILLING TO PAY A LOT CALL SHERI AT X2773 
NEEDTIX MICH. MIAMI & ALL others Chris 4013 
4 Michigan Tix Needed. Contact Pat x1787 or Hugh 233-6740. 
2 Mich studs or GA's needed call Jim 277-6405 
NEED 4 MICH. GA'S, 4 STUD. BILLX4274 
I can afford to pay $80 for a pair of GA's to the ND-Mich. game. 272­9602 after 7:00 
I can afford $50 for a pair of student tickets to the NO-Mich game. 272-9602 after 7:00 
NEEDED 2 GAs FOR MICHIGAN call Erin x4492 Will Pay 
I NEED PURDUE TICKETS. PLEASE CALL ROGER AT #3074 AFTER 7PM. 
I have ONE MIAMI TICKET! Need it? Call 4624. 
Need MICH Ga's or Stud tic's Call Susan at 258-0635 
WANTED WANTED Michigan and Miami student tickets. Call Greg at x1517 WANtED WANTED 
2 MICHIGAN STU'S FOR SALE CALL ANDY AT 232-2586 
INEED PURDUE TIXI! SEPT 29. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL 233· 7328. ASK FOR MARK BISCH 
I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS CALL KEVIN NIGHTS ONLY 271-9312 
WANTED: 

2 AIR FORCE STUDS OR GA'S 
RYAN@ 2478 
WANTED: 

2 PURDUE GA'S 
STEPH @4322 
NEED SEVERAL MICH. TIX AND MANY STANFORD TIX. CALL STACY 271-1893. 
NEED: 2 STANGA's HAVE: 2 AIR FORCE GA's (40yd) LET'S TRADE I! call joe x2681 
HELP NEED MICHIGAN TIX STUD. OR G.A. II HAVE $$$$$$$ 
PLEASE CALL x2012 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI OR 2 GA'S FOR AIRFORCE-X2152: ML 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ Family coming from NY NEED: PSU TIX --STUDS, GA'S BRIANx1603 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT TIX JOE#1352 
GAMES. CALL 288-9406. ------------.. ----------------------­NEED3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL 
X4285. 

NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, 
PURDUE, STANFORD, MIAMI, 
AND PENN STATE. CALL JULIA 
X3505 

NEED ALL TIX!I! #1588 Kevin 
THE DEAL OF THE CENTURY 
WILL TRADE 2 GA TICKETS TO 
SEE UNDEFEATED MICHIGAN 
FOR 2 GA'S TO SEE THE 
HELPLESS HURRICANES. IF 
INTERESTED PLEASE CALL 
THE BULL AT 287-9670 
HELPIIII DESPERATE STUDENT 
NEEDS 1 MICH. STUD. & 2 GA'S 
FOR ANY HOME GAME 
CALL SHAUN 273-9241 
Have 4 MICH TIX and Need MIAMI TIX -Wanna trade? Call Greg Bohdan (714)727­1911 
If you don1 sell me your MICH. stud. ticket, I hope you drink so much on Saturday that you vomit and pass out before game timeIll Pete x1745 
PERSONALS 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 22­MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR MON.WED.FRI. OR M·F. 8-12:30. 234-8743. 
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN ESCORT ON CAMPUS... EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM 
CALL 283-BLUE 
VISA OR MASTERCARD! Even if bankrupt or bad credit! We guarantee you a C8rd or double your money blck. Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. M1443.. 
AMY FRANCES ­HERE'S A LONG DISTANCE HAPPY BIRTHDAY WISH FOR A GREAT YEAR FULL OF FUN AND SUCCESS. OUT OF SIGHT, BUT NOT OUT OF MIND. THINKING OF YOU, RICH 
P.S. STILL THE THRILL 
Noah, Fred, and Zack look after your mama while I'm gone on my trip. Love Dad 
SID: LET'S GO FRIDAY.! DON'T KNOW ABOUT MARK AND ANGIE. I THINK SHE'S WAITING FOR HIM TO CALL HER. ­BRUNETIE 
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS Interested in French language and culture? The first meeting of the ND/SMC French club is Wed 9/12 at 7:30pm in 155 O'Shag. Refreshments will be served. Done, venez nombreuxl 
OVERSEAS AND CRUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. Many positions. Work Month-Home Month. Coli (805) 682-7555 Ext. 5·1912 
Are you a heterosexual? Do you like meeting fun-loving members of the opposite
sex? Then join: ND/SMc HETERosExuALs (weekly discussion groups 
~~~~-~~~-~~-~:-~~~~~~~~-~-~---­
dave glenn does dishes 

TICKETS NEEDED for any home football game. Will pay big $$ Call Tom at x3280. 
ok, ok. the votes are in, and guess who won the campus-wide Prettiest Dresser Top contest. JEN did. YES SHE DID. JEN WON THE WHOLE THING, the BIG ONE. Lavish her with lace and other girly things. She deserves it. 
$5 HAIRCUTSIIII REGULAR & ROTC VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND 
233-4767 

FAST FUNDRAISING 
PROGRAM 

'1000~~
WIIK. 
Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. 
Plus a chance at $5000 more! 
This program works! No investment needed. 

Call 1-80MJZ.OSZ8 
·Ext. so 

ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion groups forming. For info call Carol 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & STANFORD CALL 273-1364 

I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­4005 
DESPERATEIll I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR THE MICH. GAME. CALL HEATHER 271-9260 
T-YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE!!! HAVE A GREAT DAYIII I LOVE YOU MORE THAN EVER!II Y.L.P. 
REPOSSESSED VA & HUD HOMES available from governmen 
for Sl without credit check. You repair. Also lox delinquent foredosures. cml (805) 682-7555 Ext. H-3269 for repo list yow oreo. 
DAVE GLENN DOES DISHES!!! DAVE DOES DISHES! DAVE'S DONE DISHES! DISHES DO DAVE! 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
FIRST MEETING: TUESDAY 7:00 PM SIEGFRIED LOUNGE 
COME AND GET INVOLVED! 
SEIZED CARS, trucks,
boatS, 4wheelerS,motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, 
DEA. Available your area now. Call (805) 6 82-755 
Ext. C-2743. 
HEY STANFORD FAGS­Thanks for the free pizza. --four big dudes 
TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETSI 
NEED MICHIGAN STDS OR GA'S. KELLY 234-8744 
Ir--------------.I 
I WANTED: 1 I DISC .JOCKEY I 
I I
I F_or weekend dances & weddings. I I W11l tram, all equipment provided. I I Great money! $8.00. $30.00/hr.! I llfyou're outgoing, cle~n-cut, over 211 1 and have your own car; 1 1 call Bands Unlimited. 233-5727. 1 
I I






--------------· 
A HUGE thank you to the boys of E. Marion St. (& Billy). various firemen and my favorite 9 people in the world for making my birthday a night to remember (if only I could). You're the BEST!!! 
On Oct.11, '70 a girl was born It was apparant from the start that she was not from the nom1 Since then she's been known to pea in elevators And often you'll find her sleep-ing in front of locked doors But as a friend she's a real TREAT,Definetely a hard one to beat !HOLY HAPPYBIRTHDAY TWEETERS! WE LUV U-ZERS 
Hey Markie! 
Stay away from my wife! I know where you live! 
Your friend from Cheers 
P.S You can have her if you clean my carpets. 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Dr. Patricia O'Hara "Professor of Law "Former member of the NCAA Infraction Committee "Vice President for Student Affairs will speak on "Violations in College Athletics" Wednesday, Sept. 12 ?p.m. ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, September 11, 1990 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219} 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .......•. Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .........•••••• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ...•.......• Amy Eckert Sports Editor •..............•..•.. Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..........••.•.•...•....• Eric Bailey OTS Director ..••..•..•........... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•.••.Corinne Pavlis Controller..••......•.....•..•.•• Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and InsidE;! Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Freshmen confront new experiences 
Dear Mom and Dad and all, one of them. I think our dorm very long-just kept moving didn't drink anything. 
Well, I've been here two Rev. Richard Warner has some activities, too. through. It reminded me of a Don't worry about a thing. I weeks. So far, so good. I like my cattle drive (note I don't say certainly don't mean to be neg­dorm a lot, and my roommates Campus Ministry So, there sure is a lot to do what I was doing!). ative about anything, 'cause I are O.K. Among the four of us, here, and a lot of great people really love it here, and probably we're beginning to get some the rector came in. But no one to meet, too. It's ldnd of intimi­For a place with so many tal­won't send this version of this sense of who's who and what's did, and then Mass started. dating: everyone's so smart and ented and creative people, I am letter, anyway. what. And I thought living with Almost everyone sang! It was was on the top in high school. really surprised at how much all of you was work! fun, really , which is not what I'm not sure how I'll fit in. But a drinking does go on here. I But I miss you all, and think 
It's kind of hard to adjust to I'd ever have expected. But it lot of people complain about don't mean talented and cre­of you often. Are you still feed­
people from such radically dif­was prayerful, too. So even my how dull it is, especially on ative people don't drink, but ing the pirhanna? ferent backgrounds. It's not just notion of prayer will change at weekends. The first weekend people say they drink so much Love, that we're from different college! was really strange. Just about because they don't have any­Me families and different states, all the freshmen went from thing else to do. In one room, but different cultures and coun­During the mass, the priest dorm party to dorm party, just there were four huge garbage Father Warner is the Director tries as well. talked about the need to learn walking through in groups. No cans full of nothing but beer-if of Campus Ministry and a 
Like, for example, you know from others, what it means to one really stayed anywhere you didn't want a beer you regular Viewpoint columnist. that poster I hung in my room be an adult Christian, and how at home for three years and important it is to expand the thought would look great in my circle of people we're willing to LETTERS dorm room? Well, I hung it up learn from. Don't just learn one night and when my room­from those who are like you, he 
Year of w·omen heightens mutual awareness
mates saw it, one of them really said, but especially from those found it offensive! Can you who are different than you: Dear Editor: sidered in previous years. women's issues are their issues, imagine? Something that I was those who have differing values I am writing in regard to the Several clubs and groups on too.
actually allowed to have in our and come from differing back­baffling statements made by campus have been, and will The Year of Women is an op­house is offensive to someone grounds. Also, he said, get in­Lisa Eaton in her Inside Column continue to be, concerned with portunity for enlightenment,else! I was hurt, a bit, I guess, volved with people who aren't (The Observer, Sept. 6). It these issues. open discussion and greaterbut mostly wondered what was part of Notre Dame-people in seems that Eaton believes that awareness of one of the most 
wrong with someone who other parts of the community the object of the Year of Women Secondly, Eaton claims that widespread problems facingwould be offended by some­who are poor or disabled. 
is to bring about instant sexual "Year of Women is directly rel­our society. While it does not thing I would consider to be so equality in University policy and evant to less than half of the claim to be a cure-all, Year of tame. So, I asked. The response A few nights ago, there was social interaction here at Notre Notre Dame student body." Women does invite humans tooverwhelmed me. There are ac­an event called Student Dame. In this assumption, she What? Professors, sisters, learn more about themselves,tually cultures in which that Activities Night, at which ev­is greatly mistaken. mothers, girlfriends, fellow to begin to question the injus­sort of thing is as offensive as eryone doing anything on cam­classmates, co-workers, wives ... tices of the society they live in. I we would find a poster of a kit­pus tried to recruit others to do The purpose of the Year of men come into contact with suggest that anyone who is in­ten being hung on a tree! That's it with them. A lot of groups Women is not to provide a these women on a daily basis. terested in learning more aboutweird. were in fun things (like ball­"remedy to problems that run Women are an integral part of women's issues get involved inI wanted to learn a lot about room dancing!) or campus ac­very deep." There is a notable every person's daily life. To say the Year of Women. Attend lec­different things and people in tivities, but I was really sur­difference between remedying a that women's issues are only tures, talk to your friends, fig­college, but I didn't expect so prised at how many socially problem and raising conscious­relevant to women is ridiculous. ure out to what extent these is­much so soon. Another exam­concerned groups there were ness of that problem. And while Ask any man whose sister has sues effect you. Or call me at
ple: you remember the dorm represented. I was especially 
Year of Women offers no quick been raped. Ask any son whose the Student Government officechapel and how impressed we interested in the homeless solutions, it does hope to bring mother doesn't make enough to become actively involved in were with it. We all thought it center (which the University 
about greater campus-wide money to support her family. examining these issues and
would be a great place to pray actually helped start) and a awareness of the problems con­They and many others will tell bringing about the beginningsand have mass with friends. tutorial group for adults from fronting women here at Notre you that women's issues most of a change for the better.
The first Sunday here, we the inner city who don't know Dame and across the world. definitely do have relevance for Women's issues are everyone'sgathered in the chapel about 15 how to read. Also, there's a all human beings who value so­concern.
minutes before time. Everyone hospital for mentally retarded 
Further, just because cial justic -men and women 
was talking and even laughing! and developmentally disabled women's issues are at the fore­alike. Further, because all men Rita Robinett Not quite like at home! At first, children right near the campus. 
front this year does not mean have at least a few characteris­Women's Concerns I was really uncomfortable, and I signed up for them all! But I'll that they will be dismissed next tics that can be interpreted as Commissionerkept expecting to hear someone just go to the organizational year, or have never been con-"feminine" in our society, Sept. 9. 1990 say, "Shh!"-especially when meetings and then decide on 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I {}()N'T KN()(A) WHY THeY /A/ANT MFJ. I'M A PR&TTY 
SORRY &XCUS& FOR. A 50/..­fJI/3R. 1'/V/ OUT OF SHAP&, I'VFJ FOR&OTTeN AU TH/3 ORJUS, I CAN'TLOADANM-16.., 
I 
'This universe never did make sense-I suspect that it was built on governmental contract.' 

Robert A. Heinlein 


----~---~-~--~
-

Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
LETTERS 


Notre Dame offers many opportunites for women 
Have you cleaned up your act? 
Now that Notre Dame has been without maid service for a few weeks, how does your dorm look? How do you feel about the new cleaning procedures? Did the administration handle the change well? How does the cleanliness of your room (or lack thereof) compare with that of the "community areas" in the dorm? Write Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and let us know what you think. Deadline for submissions is Monday, Sept. 17. 
definitely the least tenable posi­tion from a rational perspec­tive. However, his reflections on "personhood" need some ex­pansion and clarification. 
The concept of "personhood" is most frequently discussed in philosophy and law. In philoso­phy, personhood is often tied to rationality and sentience, i.e. the ability to think and to feel. In law, personhood is a status that accords specific rights, especially the right to exist. Within both of these realms, therefore, Acker is correct in saying that "there is no ac­cepted test for determining implantation in the uterine wall, and therefore question whether it should be called a "person" and thus, granted rights. But the facts of its hu­manity, its life and its distinc­tion from its parents remain unassailable. 
Pro-choice advocates charac­teristically avoid these concrete facts and choose instead to talk about elusive personhood. Pressed to acknowledge the sci­entific facts, they might claim · that the continued existence of this new human life is always subordinate to its woman host because it is always less devel­human personhood begins at the same time as human life. 
In the end, though, the basic difference between the pro­choice and pro-life positions is not really opinions about per­sonhood, but opinions about whether all human beings have the same right to life. The former claim that some human beings have a greater right to life than others, the latter that all human beings have the same right to life. 
Rev. Ronald J. Wasowski, C.S.C. Aug. 31, 1990 

for students to examine issues are also available to deal with of services for women at Notre 
that especially affect women. A the issues of rape and assault Dame through publicity and, 
social service group at the on campus. ideally, through a published 
Center for Social Concerns, While Notre Dame might be "Women's Guide to Notre 
Women United consists of perceived by many students as Dame," similar to guides pub­
women and men who are a "haven," tragedies do occur lished on many campuses 
committed to educating here. We all need to protect across the country. 
themselves and the community ourselves. Campus Security is This year would also be a 
about issues of justice and on call 24 hours a day at 283-prime time to stress the contin­
peace. Members also do service 4444. There is also a student ual examination of the creative 
work that benefits women, such escort service called roles women can play in the li­
as volunteer work at the YWCA SAFEWALK that is available turgy. It would be a time to 
Women's Shelter. from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. at 283-work towards strengthened re­
Many student services are BLUE. This service was estab­lationships between Notre 
also offered for students' health lished for students' use, so take Dame and Saint Mary's women 
and protection. University advantage of it. Emergency and an increased sensitivity to 
Health Services, which offers telephones will soon be in­stereotypes. 
general health services to all stalled around campus, espe­Last of all, we must encour­
students at Notre Dame, also cially in the parking lots. While age the various groups on 
provides service for women's Notre Dame is making efforts campus the Women's 
specific health needs. Located for your safety, it is important Concerns Commission within 
on the third floor of the Health to use your common sense. Pay student government, the 
Center is the University attention and trust your in­Women's Resource Committee 
Counseling Center. Major stincts, even in social situations. of the GSU (Graduate Student 
concerns for women include Assaults do occur at Notre Union), the Faculty-Student 
eating disorders, self-esteem Dame. Taking the time to lock Committee on Women at Notre 
problems, depression and your door or call an escort is Dame, etc. -to cooperate. We 
anxiety. Group therapy and worth your while. believe that Notre Dame, as a 
outreach programs are avail­What we have mentioned are Catholic university, can play a 
able, as are educational pro­a few options already available unique role in helping women 
grams and Counsel-Line, a to you. The long-term goals for defme their roles in society. We 
confidential telephone service this year might cover a wide encourage all of you, men and 
offering taped materials on range of areas. One possibility women, to work together to 
many concerns to the student is starting campus-wide and achieve an understanding and 
body. Both the University dorm-based lectures and dis­appreciation for the richness of 
Health Services and the cussions concerning such areas gender diversity. Counseling Center offer refer­as date rape, sexual harass­Kristen Stamile rals to off-campus services. The ment, eating disorders and self­Faculty/Student Committee Madison Center's Sex Offenses esteem. Another goal would be on Women at Notre Dame Services (SOS) in South Bend the development of a campus­Lisa Keckler 
and the Notre Dame/Saint wide sexual harassment policy Women United for Justice Mary's College Campus Alliance with unified procedures. We en­and Peace 
r Raoe Elimination (CAREl vision an increased awareness Sept. 6. 1990 
Pro-choicers elude personhood issue 
Dear Editor: what IS ana what is not a per-oped than she. Pro-life advo­1fully agree with Rick Acker's son .... " Life scientists, however, cates, however, readily recog­assertion (The Observer, August unequivocally report that a ge-nize and accept the scientific 
31) that the so-called netically distinct, living human fact that a unique human life "moderate" abortion position being exists from the moment begins at conception. Because (i.e., "Abortion is objectively of conception. Some scientists they believe that all living hu­wrong, but I support every do wonder whether this tiny man beings have an equal right woman's right to choose it") is human life is truly viable before to life, they choose to say that 
Dear Editor: 
Father Malloy has named this academic year the Year of Women. In 1972, undergradu­ate women were first admitted to the University of Notre Dame. Since that time, the numbers have grown so that women are an integral part of Notre Dame life. Thousands have completed their educa­tions here and taken with them invaluable abilities and fond memories of Notre Dame. The fact remains, however, that women are, in many ways, dif­ferent from men and are com­pelled to consider different needs and questions. This real­ity adds a positive, new dimen­sion to the University. Unfortunately, however, women in society as a whole must often fight harder for their voices to be heard. There is a growing concern within the University community to examine not only the questions that the women here must one day face in soci­ety, but also the facets of Notre Dame life that could be im­proved with regard to women. 
The Year of Women marks the University's commitment to examine gender differences and considerations. There is a need not only to educate our female students about their personal potential, but also to teach the student body, as a whole, the importance of interpersonal relations and differences be­tween the sexes. 
Criticism of administration's efforts hinders women's cause 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Lisa Eaton's Inside Column (The Observer, Sept. 6 ), I would like to express my surprise at her point of view. I am also a gender studies concentrator and yet find myself taking an opinion quite opposite to that of Eaton's. 
It seems apparent to many on this campus that male/female relations could be greatly im­proved. Even those most con­scious about not propagating negative attitudes toward the opposite sex find it difficult not to get caught up in the battle between the sexes that rages continually from year to year. 
I would agree that the University's Year of Women program is not exactly the most effective way to promote better gender relations within the Notre Dame community and that a long-term policy designed to do just that would be a better alternative. However, labeling the ad­ministration's efforts as "superficial" only serves to hin­der even the very little support that it does lend in this area. Rather than criticizing these at­tempts, we should support them and at the same time offer alternative ideas such as Eaton's "Decade of Gender Relations." 
I also disagree with Eaton's view that Year of Women is directly relevant to less than half of the Notre Dame student body." If this is true, then the Year of Cultural Diversity was relevant to even fewer students than that since only approxi­mately 15 percent of the stu­dent body belong to a minority group. This fact makes it all the more important for the administration to continue its focus on selected groups in spite of the lack of interest. Many students also lack interest in some of their classes or in current news events. This lack of interest does not translate directly into a lack of relevance to the daily lives of students. 
The Year of Women may not be the best way to go about improving the male/female sit­uation at Notre Dame. However, it is just as unproductive to suggest that, just because a group is singled out, these students are the only ones di­rectly affected by this topic. 
Jennifer Evans Knott Hall Sept. 6, 1990 
Last spring, the Student Committee on Women at Notre Dame was formed through stu­dent government to examine the status of women at the University and to present a re­port to the Board of Trustees. Members of the committee learned that the University of­fers many services and oppor­tunities for students, particu­larly women students, of which the undergraduate community is often unaware. A number of recommendations were made to publicize these opportunities that are available, and we feel compelled to offer some general information to the new members of the class of 1994. 
In the academic realm, the University offers a concentra­tion that examines gender is­sues and discusses gender as a vital category of human experi­ence. Women and men have had fundamentally different experiences and often use different modes of communication, to some extent a different language, to express themselves. The courses within the Gender Studies program stress the importance of understanding both men's and women's contributions to the many academic disciplines. We encourage all of you, male and female, to consider this concentraion as an option or at least explore a course or two. 
Women United for Justice and Peace is another opportunity 

-------~--~-~----~-~----~----~-----------=---------------------­




Accent 
Tuesday, September 11, 1990 page 11 
Newly released albums tend to walk on the dark side 
Dismal themes dominate 'Black Sheets of Rain' 
JOHN LANE "Stop Your Crying," showcasing Accent Writer Mould's ability to write classic pop songs. In case the title didn't give it 
"Black Sheets Of Rain" is the away, "Black Sheets" is not a new album from Bob Mould, particularly uplifting album. ex-guitarist for Husker Du. Mould has a tendency in his "Black Sheets" represents the song-writing to dwell on the second solo recording for Mould sadness and confusion that in the past 16 months. consumes his life. On the title 

-
After releasing "Workbook," track, he writes that 'Black his brilliant solo debut , Mould sheets of rain keep following received a great deal of praise me again! Everywhere I go/ for utilizing his acoustic guitar Everywhere I've been.' "Stand skills, especially since Husker Guard" is about taking a dis­Du was primarily a speed-metal trustful and cautious approach band. But on "Black Sheets," to life. Mould has decided to turn the guitars back up. The result is a On "The Last Night" and "Out 
much less refined sound than of Your Life," Mould sings about on "Workbook." He mixes fast the end of relationships. 
songs ("Stand Guard," "Disappointed," one of the al­"Disappointed") with slower bum's best songs, is apparently songs ("Black Sheets Of Rain," about a child not living up to his "One Good Reason") with the parent's unfair and false 
one constant being powerful expectations. Mould sings 'The electric guitar rhythms from three years I went to collegeMould. didn't make much of a differ­
The music on "Black Sheets," ence to me/Made me feel so 
while harsher than on safe I didn't have to think about "Workbook," is terrific, proving the things I really wanna be.' that Mould is still one of the However, he does appear to best guitarists around. "Black want happiness when he ends Sheets" also contains a few ex­the album asking for peace with 
cellent catchy songs in "lfs Too the last song "Sacrifice/Let Late," "Out Of Your Life," and There Be Peace." 
Jane's Addictions' latest album lalcks optimism and beauty 
JOHN WALTON the lyrics and guitarist David all-time classic. bass in unison. "Bits of puz­the release of the Pixies' follow­accent writer Navarro writes most of the zle/fitting each other" -WHAM up to "Doolittle" and Sonic music. Navarro might be the The eleven-minute "Three BAM BAM BAM "All now with Youth's follow-up to "Daydream 
The first two Jane's Addiction greatest guitarist alive today, Days" is a journey which begins wings!" The effect that all this Nation," it completes the trio of albums, aside from being the and his solos on the new album, as a spoken-word description of has on the listener at the end of slightly disappointing efforts by best things to happen to hard particularly "Ain't No Right" some kind of bizarre ritual, the song is one of spiritual, the best of the underground rock in the 1980s, proved that and "Been Caught Stealing," then continues through altered physical and psychological ex­bands. JA are the true heirs to the Led are astounding. Drummer states and a "city of candles," haustion and fulfillment. (Turn Zeppelin legacy. The second of Stephen Perkins is also among finally ending in a vision of it up loud.) All three new albums are these, "Nothing's Shocking," is the world's finest, and Eric A.'s transcendent union with an ob­fine, but are actually nowhere one of the greatest albums of all bass playing is revolutionary. scure force, the chords finally What the album lacks is the near as good as the earlier time, and, although it may be erupting into heavy metal lighter side which the previous records. But albums by great sacrilege to say so, the second Unfortunately, the songs on soundscapes while Farrell albums displayed. This album artists should be seen as chap­Jane's Addiction album is quite this album just aren't quite as shouts, "All of us with wings!" has none of the poignant beauty ters in a chronicle. If every a bit better than "Led Zeppelin strong as those on "Nothing's over and over. The spiritual, of "Jane Says," and nothing so chapter is a scorcher, the story II." Such an album is very hard Shocking." While "Stop!" is physical, and psychological unexpected as the cocktail will burn out prematurely. Hard to follow, however, and "Ritual propulsive and the Gypsy vio­elements finally culminate in a lounge-style instrumental, core Jane's Addiction fans will de lo Habitual" is adequate, lin/Indian raga elements in "Of verse beginning, "Erotic Jesus "Thank You, Boys." "Ritual de eagerly wait to hear what Jane although not as good as its Course" are certainly interest­lays with his Marys." Every line lo Habitual" is a powerhouse, says next. For now, we'll just predecessor. ing, there is only one song is punctuated with a crashing but it's not as good as the last cherish this new installment. 
Singer Perry Farrell writes which could truly be called an riff, slammed by guitar and one. Coming within weeks of Thank you, boys. 
Bossanova deviates from pop music with catchy lyrics 
JOHN LANE ity, The Pixies probably did not Pixies on "Doolittle," getting 
Accent Writer devote enough time or energy them away from their garage to "Bossanova," which sounds a sound and more toward pop little rushed. music. But The Pixies get back 
The Pixies have released a Nevertheless, it is still a great to their roots on "Boss an ova," fme new album, entitled album. The songs are less re­playing harsher and stranger "Bossanova." Following in the fined and pop-ish than on songs. The lyrics make little tracks of their breakthrough "Doolittle," sounding more like sense and Francis' voice is 1989 album, "Doolittle," those on earlier EPs "Come On somewhat obnoxious, but both "Bossanova" is another terrific Pilgrim" and "Surfer Rosa." are very catchy. All in all, The album from The Pixies, who are However, the make-up of the Pixies have come out with an­establishing themselves as one songs are identical: short, usu­other excellent album. of America's best young bands. ally fast tunes that feature ­
The Pixies had a busy sched­great guitar and bass by Joey ule between making Santiago and deal setting up 
The Accent Department

"Bossanova"and "Doolittle." the vocals of songwriter Black The band toured with such Francis. Songs like "Velouria," 
is looking for regular 

groups as The Cure, Love c'Sr "Rock Music," and "All Over 

columnists. Drop a

Rockets, and Bob Mould during The World" fit this mold. the latter half of 1989. Bass Oddly enough, "Bossanova" 
sample column off in the 

player Kim Deal started her was produced by Gil Norton, 
Accent mailbox on the 

own band, The Breeders, who the same person who produced released an album this year en­"Doolittle." Norton was said to 

3rd floor of LaFortune. 

titled "Pod." With all this activ-have tried to "normalize" The 

·--------~~--~---------------­
~--~----------------~-------=---~------------------~~~-----­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30, p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint M<aJJ's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classrfieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.


Classifieds 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990 

I NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Balloon for rent Custom messages. Signs & Banners for your organization. 272-7770! Need infant daycare by licensed facility? Call Renee Graf at 256­7311. Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books corner of ND ave. and Howard 233-2342 Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 LOST/FOUND LOST:  , Wonted­lloln Dame-Millli faolllallkkn Wll ,.,,..s Call:D-7~-0578" ~ Badminton Partner Needed Call Kathy x3232 NEED MIAMI TICKETS$$$ CALL 284-4350$$$ FOR RENT I FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS 272-0615. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. AN ATIRACTIVE STUDIO IN MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS DEPOSIT 2888595  Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEAL THY uncle 287-3472 Scotty TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket for Air Force 273-9469 Diane Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICEIII #3501 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088 NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088 PLEASE HELP ME !!I!! Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s  I NEED TICKETS I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER WATCH THE GAMES ON TV WILL BUY WHOLE SETS CALL X 1167 Need 4 Michigan GA's; will take single tix or pairs; call at 2786 Needed desparately, 4 Stanford GA's and 3 Stud tix. Also need Miami Tix. Big Bucks!! I Call Jon Paul at x4115. HE L Pl!l!l!llllllll!lll!! My cuz from Arizona is coming to the Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for any ticket Call Mary at x1292. Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at273-9367. Need 1 Michigan GA call Pat 289-5542 NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD GA'SI CALL DAN@ X1179 I desperately need a Michigan ticket My roommate is going to  !II!I!I!!HI l!lll!!!l!!lll!!lllll!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!! I NEED SOME TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME (2 GA's and 2 ST). IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL PAM AT X4858. Thanks. I've got 1 00 reasons why you should sell me 2 MICH. TIX. Call Kevin x3347 Need 2 tickets (any kind) for Michigan game call Ry X1048 Need Miami Tickets $$$284-4350$$$$$ Need 2 tix for AIR FORCE Annemarie x2773 FOR SALE 1 Mich Stud Tix Best Offer by Wed Midnight Alicia #4114 Need Miami GA's $$$$$$$ no object Call Mark 232-4589 Need Miami GA's  I!!IHELP!!!! I need football tickets PLEASE!! Anyone with 2 GAs together for MICHIGAN or anyone with 2 student or GAs together for AIR FORCE and STANFORD I will pay for them!! Please call Colleen at x4055. Thanxl NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS!! CALL KARIN x1992 NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S CALL KARIN x1992 NEED ONE MICHIGAN x3843 I need 2 Student Michigan tickets!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE Call Anne at 288 0597 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 MICH. TIX! G.A'S OR STUD. CALL x3771 or x3791 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW  FOR SALE  Please sell me your tickets!!!! Call Cathy at 273-9624.  Rome and this will be her last football game for a whole year. $$$$$Call Lisa or Kara at X2761  $$$$$$$ no object Call Mark 232-4589  H E L P!!! NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS  
ANYTHINGI!!II!I X4090 OR X4049 LOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. PLEASE CALL 234-9648. DID YOU FIND A SET OF KEYS  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. PLANE TIX CHI to LAX And Tp  Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade Penn State or Air Force. Also will to pay big $. Call Jim at x1723 MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED!!!! I! Mom, Dad, and bro. have never been to an ND game.  I need 4 Michigan GA's. Will pay big cash. x4189 Andi I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GA I NEED 2 PURDUE GA BRIAN X2153 BIG DOLLARS! NEED STUDENT TIX ALL HOME GAMES  Need Miami GA's $$$$$$$ no object Call Mark 232-4589 Need Miami GA's $$$$$$$ no object Call Mark 232-4589  PAYING TOP$$$$$ CALL JEFF@277-3998 !!!!!!!!PLEASE HELP ME!!!!!!!! Friend from Oregon coming to see MIAMI game. Willing to pay BIG BUCKS! Contact Tara at x1124 I need two Stanford GA's BAD!!  
WHILE WAITING FOR SOPH.  Lv Oct20 Ret0ct28 ONLY $200  2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET  CALL 1597  Parents will take back tuition  
FOOTBALL TIX? CALL JASON AT 1397. Found: A set of keys, containing GM and room keys, behind Flanner Hall9/5. Call1749 to claim. FOUND: BRACELET IN THE SOUTH END OF NORTH DINING HALL IF IT IS YOURS, CALL  obo Call Nicole x2853 SOLD COTIAGE\MUST SELL FASTI PICNIC TABLE $35, 8' PICNIC TABLE $40, GREAT 7' POOL TABLE with ACCESSORIES $500, WHITE SCULPTURED RUG $50, PORTABLE DISHWASHER $150, BIG MICROWAVE $150, CALL CATHY 233-6586.  will help keep them from watching it on t.v. 272-8954 Amy Razz Help!!! Looking for Michigan tickets (GAs and Student) Please call John or Regina 258-0809 $$$ TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's  ##################### WANTED: MANY PENN STATE AND 2 AIRFORCE STUD TIX -­PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 ##################### NEED 2 MICH TIX!!I 277-9452 NEED 2 MICHIGAN STUDS OR GAS. CALL DAVE X1045.  TRADE TRADE TRADE I have two 50 yard line tickets to the Michigan game. I would like to trade them for two Miami GAs. Call Kelley at 283-4854. Will trade Purdue or Stanford GA for one Air Force Ga. Please call 272-6542 URGENT! I need 1 Michigan, 1  if I don't come through!!!!!!!! Call Mike X3506 WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL COLL:1-312-745-721 0. Desperately need 1 student ticket for Air Force game!!!! Please call ALICIA at x3465!!!  
X1553. Lost-Detex somewhere on Mod Quad (pos. by Grace). If found, please call X4905. FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIX! PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE DELl IN LAFORTUNE TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET. Lost: brown, plastic glasses. Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 Lost: One yellow Ryder hand­truck borrowed from N.J. club truck. If you know where it is, call Lee at 277-9365 WANTED EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687 MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!!!!!! 2 GA's and 1 student ticket needed. PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 WANTED: HOUSESITIERICOMPANION FOR 15-YR-OLD MALE OCT. 11­14. KNOLL WOOD AREA. CALL 277-8654 AFTER 6 PM. ASK FOR JOHN OR ROSEMARY. Roommate needed. Located two minutes from Notre Dame on Ivy Road. Call273-0087. EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3­MONTHOLD. TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5.  BED: QUEEN/LIKE NEW 2870929 2 MICH GA'S TO TRADE FOR STUD. & $ : 2870929 Trek Bicycle. $150.00. Good condition. Call277-7262. I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE CALL 273-1364 DIADORA CALCIO TURF,$18. MARK 273-9058 IBM compatible 286 portable computer, 1.2 floppy, 40 meg HD, 1 meg RAM. Lotus 2.1 & Q & A included. 287-0534. USED FURNITURE +OTHER MISC. 272-7081 AFTER 6PM TICKETS His Holiness needs: 3 Purdue GA's 2 Penn St. Stud Signed, Pope John Paul Call X2506 ask for John. SEX, MONEY OR WHATEVER IT TAKESI we NEED Michigan, Miami & Penn StateTix. Stud. or GA. Call John or Mike @ X3024 I HAVE 4 MIAMI GA'S  Call Beth at 288-0597 or Art at 277-9203 $$$$$$$$ MICH TICKETS NEEDED 2STUD, 1 GA PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975 SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468 WANTED: 1 AIR FORCE G.A. 2 MIAMI G.A.'S CALL MIKE x1581 TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM 513-677-8106. You can save a marriage, sell me your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) CALL MATI X 2984 I NEED MICH. GA's OR STUD TIX Name your terms! 277-0253 I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ NEED 1 MICH. Tix AARON x2384 x2352 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX HAVE CASH #2936 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Mike needs 1 stud. ticket for AF and up to 5 Tix for STANFORD or PURDUE/ #319~ NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. CALLX4045  ROYAL ORDER: Hear ye! Hear ye! The Queen o' the Irish Requires 4 Miami Tickets For Her Royal Court All Willing to Answer Her Highness' Plea Please Contact Treven X4503 ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs I NEED MICH STUDENT TIX WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL DAN 234-8608 NEED MICH GA'S WILL PAY TOP $ CALL PAT 234-8608 THIS IS NO JOKE. DAD NEEDS 2 MIAMI STUD OR GA TIX LIKE HE NEEDS TO BREATHE-CALL MIKE X1750 TO MAKE THAT DOWN PAYMENT ON YOUR NEW CAR. I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE, PURDUE, AND PENN STATE GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID AT 284-5239 I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE, PURDUE, AND PENN STATE GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID AT 284-5239 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED AS MANY MICHIGAN GA'S AS I CAN GET. WILL PAY ALOT. WILL TAKE SNGLS,DBLS,TRPLS, ETC. CALL DAN X3419 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD GAME TIX for use by my nubile young sister who's coming to town. Call Alison at 4011 HAVE 2 MICH. GA'S.  Miami, and 5 Stanford Tix. STUD or GA. David at x4115. I need a MIAMI stud tix. Will pay $$$. BILLx1583 I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force tix. Call Pat x 233-7328. NEED Miami Tix Phone: x1755 ! ! ! FOR SALE I!! 3 SA. MICH STUD. TIX MONEY TALKS!! BEST OFFER BY THUR. MIDNITE X 3541 Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 Help me out. I need Michigan tix: 2 GAs and 5 St. tix. Call Faris@ x3082. I have 2 Miami GAs. You have 4 Mich GAs. Call 2982 for a deal. NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN!!! CALL CHRIS X1067 HELPI!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ CALL NICOLE 234-8882 WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S DON'T BE A --CALL MIKE AT 2344 NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 1 MICH STUD FOR SALE BEST OFFER BY 12 PM WED CALL ALLEN #3401 NEED 2 MICHIGAN TIX STUDORGA CALL LYNN X1277  NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! Please call Kathy 277-9406 or Mike 273-9471. GREAT DEAL! 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­other offers welcome x2630 NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x2110 Mich. StudTix needed. You need big cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. Urgent! I NEED TIXI!I 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 NEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX FOR MICH JOHN x1384 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN GA & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ Looking for two G.A. tickets for the Purdue v. N.D. game please call Greg at #1594 WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX 1 MIAMI STUD TIC Stephanie @ 4322 MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM  
OUR HOME (BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER MONTH. CALL 259-6006. Need used psych books:personality & cognition #2894  NEED CASH BAD!! Chris X3601 HELP!!!I Parents' first and last chance to see an NO football game.  Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Mark x1576. Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x161 0.  WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL MARK 212-595-0275. WILL TRADE TWO MIAMI GA'S FOR TWO MICHIGAN GA'S OR STUDENTS. CALL (708) 530­2153 TODAY BEFORE 4:30.  NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET. CALL TARAX1267. HELP I NEED MICHIGAN TIX FOR MY ROOMMATE WHO IS GOING TO ROME $$$$$$$ COLLEENX4508  NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT (303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­ 
- NEED MONEY ?? Downtown Book Co. Needs Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. Many Opportunities. Call Mr. Turner 5-7 pm M-F 288-1002 Students, need extra spending money???? MACRI'S DELl IS NOW HIRING FULL AND PART  Desperately need 2 GA's and one student ticket for MICHIGAN. please call AMY (R.) 272-8954 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BETH NEEDS TICKETS!! II! Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and  Need five GA's & STUD. for Michigan game. Call Paul x1755. NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ CALL BARB X4419 I need 3 Mich. tix (Stud or GA). Don x1788.  PSU TICK (STU) NEEDED-CALL X3635 FOR DETAILS. HELPI! I NEED 2 MICH. TIX 277-7684 Miami Ticket Available x1412  NEEDED: MICH. TIX Recent Domer Grads who don't know what else to do with their money are looking for tickets. Help them find a way to squander their money-SELL YOUR MICH. TICKET. CALL SUE x2497 Need MICH. Student TIX. Will pay  3982. NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS GA's or STUDS CALL DAN@ X1795 DESPERA Tt;L Y NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589  
TIME COOKS AND EVENING  Air Force.  I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX  Please! Please! Please!  top $$. Call Woody at 4653. If no  
BUSSERS. Good employee  CALL MIKE AT X4022  I need one Mich. ticket of  answer, leave message.  
benefits, flexible schedules, and a great place to work. Apply within: Located in University Center on  Call Beth at 288-0597 I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO  any sort! Lisa x3212 need 2 Ml GA's Rick C. x 1750  I'll do anything for 2 Michigan GA'r or Mich, Air For Miami student tix.  see CLASS I  page 8  
Grape Road.  GAMES.272-6306  TRADE. LUKE X1213  Brian x-1306  

-
Scoreboard
Tuesday, September 11, 1990 page 13 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Tuesday, Sept. 11 
No sports scheduled 
Wednesday, Sept. 12 
Men's soccer at Loyola, 7 p.m. 
Thursday, Sept. 13 
No sports schedules. 
Friday, Sept 14 
Men's soccer vs. ST. LOUIS, 7:30 p.m. 
Women's soccer vs. VALPARAISO, 5 p.m. 
Volleyball at Big Four Tournament 
Saturday, Sept. 15 
Football vs. MICHIGAN, 8 p.m. 
Volleyball at Big Four Tournament 
Women's cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, 10 
a.rtJ. 

Men's cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, 10:30 
a.m. 

Sunday, Sept. 16 
No sports scheduled 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 

American League 
CLEVELAND INDIANs--Recalled AI Nipper, 
pitcher, and Jeff Manto, infielder, from 
Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast 
League. Purchased the contract of Turner 
Ward, outfielder, from Colorado Springs. 
KANSAS CITY ROYAL&-Purchased the con­
tract of Hector Wagner, pitcher, from 
Memphis of the Southern League. 
TEXAS RANGERs--Activated Jeff Russell, 
pitcher, from the 60-day disabled list. 
National League CINCINNATI RED&-Recalled Chris Hammond, pitcher, and Billy Bates, infielder, from Nashville of the American Association. HOUSTON ASTRO&-Traded Dan Schatz•lder, pitcher, to the New York Mats for Steve LaRose, pitcher, and Nick Davis, infielder. Assigned LaRose to Tucson of the Pa<:ific Coast League and Davis to Asheville ol the South Atlantic League. 
BASKETBALL 

National Basketball Association 
CHARLOTIE HORNET&-signed Jim les, guard. 
PHOENIX SUN&-signed Jeff Hornacek, 9uard, 
to a seven-year contract. 
Continental Basketball Association 
ALBANY PATROONs--Announced that George 
Karl, coach, has been retained for the 1990­
91 season. 

GRAND RAPIDS HOOP&-signed Rickey 
Jackson, guard-forward, and Rick Pickren, 
forward. 
FOOTBALL 

National Football League 
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Signed Vann 
McElroy, safety. 
MIAMI DOLPHIN&-Signed Troy Stradford, 
running back, to a one-year contract. 
SAN DIEGO CHARGER&-Released Tom Toth, 
offensive lineman. 
Canadian Football League 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LION&-Fired Joe Kapp, president and general manager. Named Jim Young general manager and temporary c:oach. 
HORSE RACING BELMONT PARK-suspended Angel CordEirO Jr., jockey, for seven days for careless rid­ing. 
SOCCER Major Soccer League ST. LOUIS STORM-Announced the retimment of David Brcic, goaltender. 
COLLEGE 

DARTMOUTH-Named Wendy Gates TrO>:ell associate director of athletics for admin­istration and finance, Libby Bolster women's assistant soccer coach, John Cole assistant baseball coach, John O'Connor men's assistant soccer coach and Amy Patton women's assistant lacrosse coach. 

YEARS AP 
1990 
FOOTBALL Active Coaches Career Records 
Coach, current team and years Won Lost Tied Percent 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
Boston Toronto Detroit Milwaukee Baltimore Cleveland New York West Division 
Oakland Chicago Texas California Seattle Kansas City Minnesota 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 
Pittsburgh New York Montreal Chicago Philadelphia St. Louis West Division 
Cincinnati Los Angeles San Francisco San Diego Houston 
tlanta 
z-denotes first game MERICAN LEAGUE unday's Games w L 79 62 74 66 68 74 67 74 63 76 63 79 57 83 
w L 89 50 80 60 74 67 69 71 69 71 66 74 65 76 
w L 83 58 79 61 74 66 65 75 65 75 64 77 
w L 79 60 74 66 72 68 64 75 63 77 58 82 
was a win 
Pet  GB  L10  Streak  
.560  z-5-5  Lost 1  
.529  4 1/2  z-8-2  Won4  
.479  11 1/2  z-5-5  Won2  
.475  12  z-5-5  Won1  
.453  15  3-7  Lost 1  
.444  16 1/2  4-6  Lost 1  
.407  21 1/2  1-9  Lost 5  
Pet  GB  L10  Streak  
.640  z-9-1  Won 7  
.571  9 1/2  z-5-5  Won 1  
.525  16  z-8-2  Won6  
.493  20 1/2  z-4-6  Lost 3  
.493  20 1/2  6-4  Won1  
.471  23 1/2  1-9  Lost 7  
.461  25  6-4  Lost 1  
Pet  GB  L10  Streak  
.589  z-8-2  Won 1  
.564  3 1/2  z-4-6  Wont  
.529  8 1/2  z-6-4  Won 2  
.464  17 1/2  3-7  Lost 2  
.464  17 1/2  z-4-6  Lost 1  
.454  19  4-6  Lost 1  
Pet  GB  L10  Streak  
.568  4-6  Lost 1  
.529  5 1/2  4-6  Won 1  
.514  7 1/2  5-5  Won2  
.460  15  4-6  Won 1  
.450  16 1/2  z-5-5  Lost 2  
.414  21 1/2  z-8-2  Lost 1  


Seattle 3, Boston Oakland 7, New York 3 Baltimore 3, California Toronto 6, Chicago 1 Cleveland 12, Minnesota 9 Detroit 5, Milwaukee 0 Texas 6, Kansas City 5 
onday's Games 
ate Games Not Included Boston 5, Milwaukee 4, 1st game Milwaukee 6, Boston 1, 2nd game Cleveland 3, Chicago 2, 1st game Chicago 6, Cleveland 2, 2nd game Texas 1, New York 0, 11 innings Detroit 8, Baltimore 0 Toronto at Kansas City, (n) Oakland at Seattle, (n) Minnesota at California, (n) 
uesday's Games 
Texas (B.Witt 15-8) at New York (Cary 5-9), 7:30 p.m. Detroit (Searcy 1-5) at Baltimore (D.Johnson 11-8), 7:35 p.m. Milwaukee (R.Robinson 9-3) at Boston (Lamp 3-4), 7:35 p.m. Chicago (Edwards 4-3) at Cleveland (Candiotti 14-10), 7:35 p.m. Toronto (Wills 5-3) at Kansas City (Stottlemyre 0-0), 8:35 p.m. Oakland (C.Young 8-5) at Seattle (R.Johnson 13-8), 10:05 p.m. Minnesota (Tapani 11-6) at California (langston 8-16), 10:35 p.m. 
ednesday's Games Oakland at Seattle, 3:35 p.m. Milwaukee at Boston, 6:05 p.m. Texas at New York, 7:30 p.m. Detroit at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Cleveland, 7:35 p.m. 
ATIONAL LEAGUE 

unday's Games Philadelphia 6, New York 2 Montreal 9, Pittsburgh 5 San Francisco 5, Houston 1 Los Angeles 6, Cincinnati 4 
San Diego 5, Atlanta 4, 11 innings 
St. Louis 9, Chicago 2 Monday's Games Late Games Not Included 
New York 10, St. Louis 1 Pittsburgh 3. Philadelphia 2 Montreal 7, Chicago 4 Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) Atlanta at San Francisco, (n) Only games scheduled 
uesday's Games Montreal (Gross 8-10) at Chicago (Nunez 2-6), 2:20 p.m. Houston (Scott 9-13) at Cincinnati (Charlton 11-7), 7:35 p.m. St. Louis (Hill 4-3) at New York (Valera 1-1 ), 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh (Tomlin 2-2) at Philadelphia (Grimsley 1-1), 7:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Hartley 6-2) at San Diego (Hurst 8-9), 10:05 p.m. Atlanta (Marak 0-1) at San Francisco (Garrelts 11-10), 10:35 p.m. 
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Sept. 8, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote, and last 
week's ranking: 
Record Pts Pvs 1. Notre Dame (37) 0-0-0 1,451 2 2.Auburn(8) 1-0-0 1,385 t3 
3. Florida St. (11) 1-0-0 1,367 t 3 4. Michigan 0-0-0 1,230 5 5.BrighamYoung(3) 2-0-0 1,171 16 6. Southern Cal 1-0-o 1,126 7 7. Tennessee 2-0-1 1,108 a 8. Nebraska (1) 2-0-0 1,047 10 9. Colorado 1-0-1 1,041 6 
10. Miami, Fla. 0-1-0 1,013 11. Virginia 2-0-o 1, 005 1 4 12. Texas A&M 1-0-0 802 12 13. Pittsburgh 2-0-0 673 17 14. Oklahoma 1-0-0 662 23 15. Arkansas 0-0-0 647 15 
16. Clemson 1-1-o 471 9 17.0hioSt. t-0-0 467 18 18. Houston 1-0-0 395 24 19. Michigan St. 0-0-0 382 22 20. Arizona 1-0-0 370 21. Illinois 0-1-0 365 11 22. Washington 1-0-0 345 20 23.Texas 1-0-0 214 24. Florida 1-0-0 163 25. Arizona St. 1-0-0 113 
Other receiving votes: Alabama 104, Fresno St. 51, Maryland 42, South Carolina 40, UCLA 38, Georgia Tech 37, Oregon 36, S. Mississippi 31, LSU 25, Penn St. 25, Wyoming 16, West Virginia 10, Colorado St. 9, Georgia 7, Louisville 5, Stanford 4, 
Mississippi 3, Syracuse 2, Purdue 1, Rutgers 1. 
Don Shula, Miami, (27) 
Chuck Noll, Pittsburgh, (21) 
Chuck Knox, Seattle, (17) 
Joe Gibbs, Washington, (9) 
Dan Reeves, Denver, (9) 
Mike Ditka, Chicago, (B) 
John Robinson,Los Angeles Rams, (7) Bill Parcells, New York Giants, (7) Marv Levy, Buffalo, (9) Marty Schottenheimer,Kansas City, (6) 
Sam Wyche, Cincinnati, (6) Ron Meyer, Indianapolis, (7) Jack Pardee, Houston, (6) 
Jerry Burns, Minnesota, (4) 
Jim Mora, New Orleans, (4) Ray Perkins, Tampa Bay, (7) 
Jerry Glanville, Atlanta, (5) Buddy Ryan, Philadelphia, (4) Dan Henning, San Diego, (5) 
George Seifert, San Francisco, (1) 
Lindy Infante, Green Bay, (2) 
Bud Carson, Cleveland, (1) 
Wayne Fontes, Detroit, (2) 
Art Shell, Los Angeles Raiders, (1) 
Jimmy Johnson, Dallas, (1) 
Joe Bugel, Phoenix,(R) 
Bruce Coslet, New York Jets, (R) Rod Rust, New England, (R) 
(R) =Rookie 

NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East  
w  L  T  
Buffalo  0  0  
Miami  0  0  
lndnplis  0  0  
N England  0  0  
NY Jets  0  0  
Central  
Cincnnati  0  0  
Cleveland  0  0  
Houston  0  0  
Pttsburgh  0  0  
West  
Kan. City  1  0  0  
LA Raidrs  1  0  0  
Denver  0  1  0  
San Diego  0  0  
Seattle  0  0  
NATIONAL CONFERE NCE  
East  
w  L  T  
Dallas  0  0  
NYGiants  0  0  
Washingtn  1  0  0  
Phila  0  0  
Phoenix  0  0  
Central  
Chicago  0  0  
Green Bay  1  0  0  
Tampa Bay  1  0  0  
Detroit  0  0  
Minesota  0  0  
West  
Atlanta  1  0  0  
New Orlns  0  0  0  
San Fran  0  0  0  
LA Rams  0  0  
Sunday's  Games  

Kansas City 24, Minnesota 21 Washington 31, Phoenix 0 Green Bay 36, Los Angeles Rams 24 Chicago 17. Seattle o Tampa Bay 38, Detroit 21 Los Angeles Raiders 14, Denver 9 Atlanta 47, Houston 27 Buffalo 26, Indianapolis 10 Cincinnati 25, New York Jets 20 Miami 27, New England 24 Cleveland 13, Pittsburgh 3 Dallas 17, San Diego 14 New York Giants 27, Philadelphia 20 
Monday's Game San Francisco at New Orleans, 9 p.m. 
LEAGUE LEADERS 
Based on 370 at Bats NATIONAL LEAGUE 
G AB R Dykstra Phi 132 522 97 McGee Stl 125 501 76 Magadan NY 123 379 65 Murray LA 134 480 80 Grace Chi 136 511 59 Dawson Chi 126 458 
57 TGwynn SD 136 555 75 Duncan Gin 110 387 61 Bonds Pit 132 456 93 LoSmith All 116 390 57 Wallach Mon 139 537 59 Home Runs 
285  132  6  .681  
193  140  1  .578  
162  109  1  .597  
102  48  0  .680  
91  55  1  .622  
84  45  0  .651  
71  50  0  .587  
69  49  1  .584  
62  68  0  .4n  
54  38  1  .586  
51  47  0  .520  
47  38  0  .553  
44  47  0  .485  
41  28  0  .594  
38  26  0  .594  
38  68  0  .358  
35  35  0  .500  
33  31  1  .515  
28  51  1  .356  
17  2  0  .895  
14  18  0  .438  
10  7  1  .556  
9  12  0  .429  
7  5  0  .583  
1  15  0  .063  
0  0  0  0  
0  0  0  0  
0  0  0  0  

AP/Martha P. Hernandez 
Pet PF PA 1.000 26 10 1.000 27 24 .000 10 26 .000 24 27 .000 20 25 
1.000 25 20 1.000 13 3 .000 27 47 .000 3 13 
1.000 24 21 1.000 14 9 .000 9 14 .000 14 17 .000 0 17 
Pet PF PA 1.000 17 14 1.000 27 20 1.000 31 0 .000 20 27 .000 0 31 
1.000 17 0 1.000 36 24 1.000 38 21 .000 21 38 .000 21 24 
1.000 47 27 .000 0 0 .000 0 0 .000 24 36 
-
H 176 168 126 151 158 141 
171 
119 139 119 164 Pet. .337 .335 .332 .315 .309 .308 .308 .307 .305 .305 .305 

Mitchell, San Francisco, 33; Sandberg, Chicago, 33; Strawberry, New York, 32; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 31; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 29; Gant, Atlanta, 28; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 27; Daniels, Los Angeles, 24. 
Runs Batted In MaWilliams, San Francisco, 107; JCarter, San Diego, 105; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 103; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 103; Strawberry, New York, 95; Wallach, Montreal, 88; Mitchell, San Francisco, 87; HJohnson, New York, 83; Murray, Los Angeles, 83; Sandberg, Chicago, 83. Pitching (11 Decisions) Darwin, Houston, 11-2, .846; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 19-5, .792; Tudor, St. Louis, 12­4, .750; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 17-6, .739; Cook, Philadelphia, 8-3, .727; Gooden, New York, 16-6, .727, 5 are tied with .667. 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990 

George hurting with headache day after impressive pro debut 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Jeff  see Bennett's unceremonious  from."  
George awoke MondaY. with a  welcome to the league as an  "When  I tried  to  get  up  
massive headache ant1  a  stiff  omen.  everything just  went  real  
neck.  He shrugged off the Colts' so­ narrow and I couldn't see to  
The pain wasn't a reminder of  called quarterback jinx, which  my right or left," George said.  
the quarterback's impressive  has left the team with injured  "I didn't have any balance."  
NFL  debut  Sunday  in  the  quarterbacks for the past sev­ George,  the  first  player  
Indianapolis Colts' 26-10 loss to  eral years.  selected in April's college draft,  
Buffalo. It was simply the result  "I never worry about that.  is being touted as one of the  
of Cornelius Bennett's crushing  You can get hurt outside foot­ best young quarterbacks in the  
hit that forced George out of the  ball, even walking to your car.  league. In fact, Colts general  
game in the fourth quarter.  You never know," he said.  manager Jim Irsay is already  

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Join guest Rick Mirer and tune in to hear a Michigan coach live in Ann Arbor on WVFI Sports Talk. The show will air from 8­9 p.m. on your 6400 AM dial. Call in to hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan at 239-6400. 
The NO Sailing Club will have an introductory meeting on Tuesday, September 11 at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Prospective members are encouraged to attend. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 p.m., Room 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. All are welcome. 
A checkup at Methodist But for a few hours on talking of retiring George's jer­Hospital showed no serious in­Sunday, Colts fans held their sey number. juries, and a confident George breath. After Bennett's sack, said that after a day off, he'll be George couldn't see or keep his "He's going to be a great back at work on Wednesday to balance, and had to be driven player. Personally, I don't think prepare for Sunday's home back to the Colts' locker room. you'll ever see another player debut against the New England He bruised the back of his wear number 11 for us again," Patriots. brain that controls his vision, Irsay said. "As time goes on, I 


As Bennett sacked George, the Coach Ron Meyer said. think his performance will quarterback banged the back of "He took a very hard hit," prove that we couldn't pay 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation th.lt dc•wlops. his head against the artifical turf Meyer said. "He was conscious enough to get him." 
manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrum0nt sysiL'IllS, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a r.ortune 500
at Rich Stadium. but he couldn't see. George signed a six-year, $15 
company, and has had record sales and earnings for 29 consecutive• years.
"I just got a headache, it Fortunately, the injury looks million contract. 
The company has a presence in more than 130 countries around the world 
comes with the territory," said 
Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. George, who participated in light Lilly representatives from the Systems Division will be on campus on the 
like one he will come back 
running drills at the Colts' 
following dates: · 
training complex on Monday. 
<at~ut<i/Un

"Whenever you play a defense 
Wednesday, September 12th Thursday, September 27 like Buffalo, it's always going to 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 7:00 -9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Memorial Library lounge LaFortune Student Center

dlapptf 20/k

cause some problems. 
Foster Room, Third Floor

"I was more upset that we Lilly representatives will also be on campus for in~frviews on Tuesday,
were still in the game at that 
/J~ 

November 7, 1990.
time and I had to come out." George, who was 13-for-26 
for 160 yards, had brought the $~!!, 
We will be speaking with interested students on opportunities for Careers in Information Systems, and specifically about the Role of the Systems
Colts back into the game in the 
Analyst within the Pharmaceutical Industry. Students who are MIS,
second half with a drive that led 
1990 

CAPP, Math/CC, or EE/Computer Sequence, or those who have had strong to a touchdown and cut the 
computer classwork experience are invited to attend. Bills' lead to 16-10. Refreshments will be provided at both events. We Ionk iorward to
_fcw.e, A10-m,

After he left, however, the 
discussing your opportunities in the systems field! 
Colts collapsed and Buffalo cruised to the victory. 

:had g 1intj

George said he was happy to 
Eli Lilly and Company

get his first regular-season NFL 
an equal opportunity employer 

game under his belt and didn't 
STORE HRS. MON.-SAT. 9 A.M.-9 P.M. SUN., 'TIL 6 P.M. 
PRICES GOOD 
9/11 thru 9/15 




BIG LOTS® 
QUANTITY RIGHTS RESERVED 


New Closeout Bargains Every Week! Pack Applesauce 

4 oz. 
Assorted Flavors 


$.99 
comp. to $1.49 
TREND Laundry Detergent 

$3.49 
I 
Assorted Floor Pillows 


$6.99 


-~ 

-----~-~~------~------------~--------------------------------~~~------~--~------------~----~~~~-----­
Tuesday, September 11, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Brewers win, Yount climbs further into record books 


FALL BREAK SEMINARS 
CENTER FOR SOCIAIL CONCERNS INFORMATION NIGHT· 
WEDNESDAY,SEPTEMBER12 
AJP>JP>ALACCIHrJIAN tD.5)()#tOcsC

·e.\ 
THE GULF CRISIS 
October 21-26 
~ .~~~ 
t;:tco·<?.Jv 
~:" ~G Chicago Cultural Diuersity October 21-26 
October 21-27 
esc 239 -7943 
BOSTON (AP) -Dave Parker hit his 21st home run and Robin Yount continued his climb on the all-time hit list as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Boston Red Sox 6-1 for a split of Monday's twi­night doubleheader. 
The Red Sox won the opener 5-4 as Luis Rivera keyed a four-run fourth inning with a two-run double and Greg Harris posted a career­high 13th victory. The split left the Red Sox four games ahead of Toronto in the American League East. 
Yount went 3-for-4 in the first game, breaking a tie with Lou Gehrig for 38th place among baseball's all-time hit leaders. He went 2-for-3 in the nightcap for 2,726 career hits. 
Tom Edens (4-2). making only his fifth start of the sea­son and seventh of his career, Chuck Crim combined to Dana Kiecker (6-8) in nd game. Edens al­five hits in six innings ly one run on Mike 's fourth homer in the 
• .,,,....,... Crim went three innings 11th save. ecker lasted until the 
when the Brewers d the victory with three 
s. including a two-run ouble by Greg Vaughn, who ad three RBis in the first-
KANSAS CITY, Mo.-Toronto another half-game off 's lead as Kelly Gruber in four runs and David Is (11-4) scattered four over eight innings. Hector 
Wagner, a 21-year-old right­hander who spent the season at Class AA Memphis, lost his major league debut. He gave up six runs -five earned ­and 10 hits in 6 1/3 innings. 
Gruber hit a two-run double to put the Blue Jays ahead 4-1 in the fifth. With the score tied 1-1, Wagner walked Manny Lee leading off the inning and Lee went to third on a single by Junior Felix. Mookie Wilson forced Felix at second as Lee scored the go-ahead run. 
Indians 3, White Sox 2 
White Sox 6, Indians 2 
CLEVELAND-Eric King got his first win since June 27 and Bobby Thigpen extended his major-league record to 49 saves as Chicago managed a doubleheader split. Cleveland won the opener 3-2 when pinch-hitter Carlos Baerga drew a bases-loaded walk from reliever Barry Jones with one out in the ninth inning. Doug Jones (5-5) got the victory, striking out two batters with a runner at third in the top of the ninth. 
Chicago's Carlton Fisk had a home run in each game, giving him 17 for the season and 49 since he turned 40 years old. That tied the 42­year-old Fisk with Stan Musial for second place in home runs by players 40 and over. Darrell Evans leads with 60. 
The split didn't help 
Chicago, which began play 9 
1/2 games behind Oakland in 
the AL West. 
In the nightcap, King (9-4) 
gave up two runs and five hits 
in six-plus innings. Thigpen, who hadn't pitched in six Alomar with one out in the days, worked 2 2/3 innings. hottom of the ninth and The White Sox scored three pinch-runner Alex Cole went runs off Charles Nagy (0-4) in to third on Brook Jacoby's the first inning on an HBI­single. Tom Brookens was 


double by Fisk and Carlos walked intentionally to load Martinez's two-run single. the bases but Jones missed Ron Karkovice made it 4-0 in badly on a 3-2 pitch to the fourth with his silxth Baerg a. home run. Fisk hit a two-run homer in the eighth off Jesse Tigers 8, Orioles 0 Orosco. 
In the first game, Barry BALTIMOHE-Frank Jones (11-2) walked Sandy Tanana allowed three hits over seven innings and Lou Whitaker broke an 0-for-25 slump with a homer and three RBis. Tanana (7-7) struck out five and did not allow a runner past first base in winning for only the second time since June 14. Mike Henneman and Jerry Don Gleaton each worked one inning as the Tigers posted consecutive shutouts for the first time since 1985. 
Whitaker had an RBI-single in the third inning and the Tigers made it 3-0 in the fourth on an HBI-single by Mike Heath and Cuyler's run­scoring double. Detroit chased Pete Harnisch (10-11) in the seventh. scoring five times on just two hits. including Whitaker's two-run homer, his 17th, and Chet Lemon's two-run single. 
Rangers 1, Yankees 0 
NEW YORK -Hafael Palmeiro singled home the only run with two out in the 11th inning following an intentional walk to Julio Franco. Steve Buechele opened the 11th with a single off Lee Guetterman (9-6), New York's second pitcher. Jeff Huson sacrificed and pinch-hitter John Russell grounded out before Franco was intentionally walked. 
Palmeiro's bouncing single up the middle hit made a winner of Kenny Hogers (8-5), the third of five Texas pitchers. Hookie Scott Chiamparino gave up four hits in seven innings. New York's Dave Eiland, also just up from the minors,. yielded four singles in 8 1-3 innings. 

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
Strawberry, Mets enjoy sweet home in pounding of St. Louis 
(AP)-As usual, hop1e was sweet for the New York Mets. 
Returning from a rocky road trip that dropped them 3 1/2 games behind the first-place Pittsburgh Pirates in the NL East, the Mets found the going smooth at Shea Stadium with a 10-1 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
"What a difference it is to be home and facing a right-han­der," manager Bud Harrelson said. 
Lefties have been the Mets' downfall all season, particu­larly recently. The Mets saw six left-banders on their latest road trip and are just 22-27 in games started by lefties. 
This time, though, right­hander Jose DeLeon was on the mound and the Mets broke loose as they won their eighth straight at home and improved their Shea Stadium record to 47-22, the best in baseball. 
Darryl Strawberry hit his 32nd homer and drove in three runs and Frank Viola won his 18th game as the Mets began the key homestand following a 2-6 road trip. 
The Mets play 10 consecutive games at home, including two against the Pirates, while Pittsburgh plays 10 in a row on the road. 
Strawberry, the hitter the Mets need to get hot, connected for an RBI single in the first inning and two-run homer in the fourth. 
"You don't want to put that kind of pressure on yourself, to say you're trying to take charge," Strawberry said. "I'm just trying to be selective, not to swing at any bad pitches." 
The pitch Strawberry hit was a bad one -for DeLeon. 
"I tried to throw a fastball away, not for a strike. It wound up right over the plate," DeLeon said. "Straw finds a way to beat you." 
Pirates 3, Phillies 2 

PHILADELPHIA -Bobby Bonilla's ninth-inning sacrifice fly enabled the Pittsburgh Pirates to beat the Philadelphia Phillies 3-2 and maintain their 3 1/2-game lead in the NL East. 
Pinch-hitter Wally Backman walked leading off the ninth, advanced to second on Jay Bell's 34th sacrifice of the sea­son and moved to third on an infield single by Jeff King be­fore scoring the Pirates' win­ning run. 
The Phillies had a chance to go ahead in the eighth when they loaded the bases. But Pirates reliever Stan Belinda (3-4) stemmed the tide when he got pinch-hitter Rod Booker on a forceout at the plate on an attempted squeeze play and retired Darren Daulton on a fly ball. 

Expos 7, Cubs 4 
CHICAGO-Tim Wallach had two hits and two RBis and rookie Chris Nabholz won for the fifth time in his last six starts as the Montreal Expos beat the Chicago Cubs 7-4. 
Nabholz (5-0}, yet to lose in the majors after seven starts, pitched five innings and gave up four runs on seven hits. He struck out four and walked four before getting relief help from Dale Mahorcic. Tim Burke got the last out for his 18th save. 
Montreal broke a 4-4 tie in the fifth with two runs off loser Bill Long (6-1) on an RBI single by Wallach and RBI triple by Larry Walker. 


S.A.V.E. 
(Student Advocates and Volunteers for the Elderly) 
liimf~Jrm aftli~Irllan JM[<e<eftliimg 
VVed. Sept. 12, 1990 7:30pm, Centerfor Social Concerns 

Questions? Call Eleanor x1277 
Women's golf finishes third at Michigan Invite 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team finished third Sunday at the Lady Wolverine Invitational, a six-team tournament at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. 
Scoring was tallied based on the low four scores from each school's six-person squad. Notre Dame finished with a gross 1,022 compared to winner Michigan's 995 and runner-up Wisconsin's 997. 
The first and second rounds were held Saturday and the finals on Sunday. On Saturday, the Irish struggled in the first round, finishing with a 348. In the second round, however, the Irish shot a tournament­low 329, two strokes off their best mark since becoming a varsity team two years ago. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame managed a 345 to hold on , to third place. 
"The playing in the second round was outstanding," said Head Coach Tom Hanlon. "We're capable of shooting that every time we tee it up. I'm proud of the girls with the way they played, but we need four girls to shoot low in every round." 
Senior Roberta Bryer took third in invidual competition, shooting a 80­83-84-247, one shot out of second place. 
"We've made good prog­ress every time we've teed it up in the last two years," said Hanlon. "I'm sure it's going to continue." 

Cookie, you're getting stale, Babe! 





ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
On Sept. 4th at Activities Night a brown Gucci Portfolio containing lists of members was taken from the table of the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. If you signed up with us at that time, PLEASE call one of the following numbers and leave your name, campus (or off-campus) address, and phone number. 
rchris  x1649  
Jim  x1091  
Julie  X 1341  
Amy  X 2653  

A substantial reward is being offered for the return of this item. · If you can help us, please call x1 091. All information will be kept strictly confidential. 
... 
·~----~~------~---·-~--­

Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
SMC soccer captu~es·,,,,,,, .........,,,,,,,, Belles volleyball slams way to title at owrf_t•::;o·,··········.. ··,···· ""n'.,·./a''..,:im::,i.
''> .... ur ·...··en 
second at Hornet Invitational 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team kicked open its season this weekend, placing first in its own Saint Mary's College Invitational. 
The Belles opened tourna­ment play with a dominating victory over Oberlin College Saturday. 1-0. The team had 22 shots on goal to Oberlin's four. Junior Stacy Winget scored the Belles' only goal. 
"We dominated the game offensively," said Saint Mary's coach Tom Van Meter~ :we were only tested a few times (defensively). The defenders even got to practice 
offensive skills." .. ·' ..•.,,....· . 
In their se'etmd · ' Saturday, the 
12th~ranke'd College, of ~.fil.notta "Thisil'\ivas 
~nv; in.the s~f!mid half. Juni~r swe~per Kelly Cook shot an 
early unassisted goalinThe Cardinals stru~~ back with a goal oftheir <iwli; but after that the Belles' ltelrense,;helld Cardinals in check. Freshman midfielder Megan Dalsaso scored the Belles' next two shots, the first being'· •.., head shot coming off of an as­sist from junior Greer Gilliland, and the s~cond coming minutes later off ()fan assist by juniot forward Frannie Cappellert ·... 
"The whole team tdl did little thing$.~ said v; iTh,is WB.$ ttuly a t . They an did 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 

~ Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
~ / Washington Hall 
0.:: '7,1 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 StuJ Sen. Cit.-Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 

SHORIN-RYU 



KARATE 
MEETS MONDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 4:45PM-6:15PM 
STARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 ROCKNE ROOM 301 
DEMONSTRATION 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
4:45 AT ROCKNE 301 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team turned in a smashing per­formance this weekend, capturing second place at the Hornet Invitational at Kalamazoo College. 
"I feel, physically, we played well," said Belles coach Sue Medley. "We're doing things physically now ~hat we weren't able to do before. We're using back-row attacks and combina­tion plays that we weren't able to do before." 
The Belles began the tourna­ment with a slow start against Spring Arbor College, losing the first game. 
The team battled back in the next two, taking the match, 11­15, 15-8, 15-6. Fine perfor­mances came from senior out­side hitter Katy Killilea, who had eight service aces, six con­secutively. Sophomore middle blocker Karen Lorton also con­tributed to the Belles' victory with 14 kills. 
"We really served the other people off the court," said Medley. "We had 16 total ser­vice aces for the day. That's physically the best statistic we 

DRIVE STRAIGH1;
INDIANA. 

not JUSt 
for priests 
anymore 
The secret'• out-the finest made, most comfortable shoe is available ill South Bend :1t: 
~SHOE ~..-.. REPAIR . . 228 S. Michigan ~ South Bend 
288-5717 M-F 8-5:30 Sat 84 
tam E*•do'll 
had all weekend." 
The Belles then went on to defeat Kalamazoo Valley col­lege 10-15, 15-8, 15-9. 
"The scores in the two games were almost identical," Medley said, "But there was a big change in the tempo. They play a much slower tempo and we had a hard time adjusting to that tempo. But we turned it around for us and did well in the last two games." 
Senior outside hitter Michelle Sibilsky came alive in the vic­tory for the Belles with 17 kills. 
The offense collapsed in game three of the tournament against Aquinas College, losing 12-15, 3-15. 
"We just didn't get it going," said Medley. "They (Aquinas) use a different tempo from most teams. We didn't adjust. We just didn't have an offense." 
Despite this loss, the Belles qualified for the semifinal round, competing against Nazareth College, defeating them 15-7, 15-11. The offense bounced back after their previ­ous loss, hitting .410 as a team. 
Lorton led the team with 11 kills, followed by Killilea's nine kills and 11 digs and freshman Michelle Martino's eight kills. 
"This was a good match for us. We did a lot of things well. We got our blocking on track and hit well," Medley said. "It's the first and only match that we went out against a team and established ourselves as a team." 
The Belles then went on to the tournament final where they faced host team Kalamazoo College. The Belles played an aggressive match against the Hornets but suffered defeat in three games, 13-15, 15-5, 6-15. 
"The score doesn't reflect the quality of the match. We rallied with them well. We just didn't convert our serve." 
In this fmal match, the Belles committed nine service errors, the key to Kalamazoo's victory. However, fine performances were turned in by Lorton, who hit .500 with 18 kills, Sibilsky, who had 11 digs, and freshman Mary O'Malley, who had four service aces. 
"The girls are working to­gether well. We just have to make things happen when we want them to happen, and we need to work on capitalizing on opportunities," coach Medley added. 


Saint Mary's tennis sweeps at Wheaton 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
Sports Writer 



~ 


t50PHOMORES~ 
~ ~ Say "FAREWELL to ~ ~
SUMMERII 

~ ~ on the CLASS CRUISE on LAKE MICHIGAN.~ 
THURSDAY I SEPT. 13th. ~ ~ ~ 
Tickets available now!!! 
~ 

$20 through Tuesday. ~ $25 (H availabl!) Wed/Thurs.~ ~ ~ ~ 
Purchase tix in Soph Closs Office (213 LaFortune) 3-sp# Buses deport Main Circle ot 5: t5pm. Return ot tom. ... 
~ 
.•. 
Mayer showed no mercy, steal­ing both sets, 6-0, 6-0. The No. 2 duo of Koscielski and Darby had a close match, 5-7, 7-6 (7­5}, 6-3. 
On Saturday, the Belles soundly defeated Wheaton col­lege 9-0. Sarah Mayer defeated her opponent 6-2, 6-7 (1-7}, 6­
1. Ellen Mayer lambasted her opponent 6-1, 6-0, while Koscielski played a tough match, winning 6-4, 6-4. 
The Belles finished the day by defeating Depauw University 5­
4. Ellen Mayer beat her oppo­nent 6-2, 6-4. No. 4 Kloepfer stomped on her opponent 6-1, 6-1, while No. 6 Kovass played a tough match, coming away with a 6-4, 6-3 victory. 
"We played Depauw right after the match against ­Wheaton, so we really had to hang tough," said coach Schultz. 
~ 


page 18 The Observer Tuesday, September 11 , 1990 


Women 
continued from page 20 
against Greensboro, although it ended with an Irish loss, was not nearly so one-sided. However, that fact only serves to mak~ such a loss even more of a heartbreaker. 
"I can accept the fact that we were beaten by Duke," reflected coach Petrucelli, "but I can't accept our being beaten the next day. We really didn't play well until the second half. We played well the first 30 minutes of the second half, but by then it was too late. 
"We had our chances to come back when we were down 3-1, but we just didn't finish our chances. Also, their last two goals came very late in the game, so the final score (5-1) really isn't indicative of the way we played." 
Against Greensboro, Notre Dame rallied to squeeze off seven shots, while goalie Michelle Lodyga, with six saves, extended her efforts from the previous day. The lone Irish score of the weekend came at the 75:52 mark of the Greensboro game when junior midfielder Marianne Giolitto buried a penalty kick in the UNC net. 
It was the third goal in three shots for Giolitto, who has started all three games for the Irish, and equals her total goal output from the 1989 season. With her three goals, Giolitto is the leading scorer for Notre Dame this season. 
"Marianne Giolitto really responded," said Petrucelli. "She played well and was not intimidated." 
While some curmudgeons may wish to forget about the Irish after the weekend's performance, such a move would be hasty and uncal­culated. On Friday, Notre Dame embarks on a three­game homestand, with matches against Valparaiso, Washington University and Saint Joseph's. Keep in mind that the Irish are 1-0 at home, and will be looking for a win after coming up short this weekend. 
"This is a long season-we play 22 games," explained Petrucelli. "I don't think that we can make any conclusions about ourselves after these past two games, but we do realize that we have lots of work to do. We are certainly not ready to quit. We haven't called it a season just because we lost two games to the two best teams on our schedule. 
"Don't write us off-we're not done yet." 

Men 
continued from page 20 
-
point of the game. 

By the time Kenyon Meyer headed in a pretty crossing shot from Pendergast at the 
79:52 mark, it was just about too late for the Irish to do any more damage. 
Notre Dame didn't lose any of its fighting spirit after the two losses, though. "We weren't satisfied with losing," said Allong. "We're really disappointed about both losses." 

JERUSALEM 
SPRING 1991 
PRESENTATION 
BY SR. MARY AQUIN O'NEILL 
DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1990 
6:30 P.M. ROOM 109 O'SHAUGHNESSY 

Tuesday, September 11, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Penitent's garb 53 Dart; flutter 3&0n­56 In the main 
1 Shoelace tip (experiencing 62 Vega's

Tuesday &Over 
continued constellation

3:30p.m. Lecture: "How to write an effective resume" by 10 Heath 
success) 63 Navy

Paul Reynolds, associate director Career & Placement 14 Shout at La 
39 Relative by guardhouseScala
Services. Conference Room, Career & Placement Services. marriage 64 Assumed name 
15 Spore sacs 

4 p.m. Lecture: "The History of an Identity Cri-40 "Wheel of 65 Bean or 
16 Famed Art Deco 
sis,"Charles Maier. Hesburgh Library lounge. Sponsored Fortune" Shepard
designer 66 Fast period 

by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. purchas·e
17 Carp 67 Ike's wife 

4:30p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar. Room 283, Audi­41 Fla. city 
18 Horse of a 68 Flex

torium of the Galvin Life Science Center. Dr Bernd Hein­different color? 42 Tuscan city 
69 "-Perpetua"rich of the University of Vermont will speak on 19 Speaker's 43 Like a stubborn (Idaho motto) 
"Thermoregulation in Butterflies." platform cold 
10 Of a region7 p.m. Lecture: Engineering Placement Night. Hesburgh 20 Song from 45 Squalid; 
"Gypsy" depraved
Library Auditorium. Speakers will include representatives 
22 Foot part 47 Tokyo, once DOWN
from Anderson Consulting, 3M Company and Delco Elec­
23 Algonquian 48 Heart test: 
tronics. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 
tribe Abbr. 1 First lessons 24 Ill. or Ind. city 49 Breeze; 2 About 15 grains 26 Type of railway pushover 3 Flow from Peh3e 29 That woman 51 One kincl of 4 Satanic 
31 Negligent wind 5 Donne's bell does this 6 Of narrow scope
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Hebrew lyre a Sell tickets 

MENUS 
illegally 9 Highly flammable 

Notre Dame 10 Steak order 
wood 11 AIg eri an port 12 Of the ear 

Oven Fried Chicken Make Your Own Burrito Bar 21 Use a lavabo Garden Veg Quiche 25 Aptly named 
English author 

Baked Chicken w/Herbs 
26 Caruso role in "I 
Pagliacci" 27 Houston athlete 28 Play to the 
crowd 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


30 Banks or Pyle 
32 Of a classical Greek order 
33 Throw, as hash 
34 Scoria 
35 Vocalize like a 
viper 
36 Lover 
37 "Thoughts-.. ­
amb1t1on ... : Shak. 44 It's not all that glisters 46 What dilettantes do 
SPELUNKER 
50 Combustible piles 52 Andean beast 53 Spare-tire 
constituent? 54 Author of "The Bronx Zoo" 
5S Former Peacock Throne site 
57"-She Sweet?" 58 Banned apple spray 59 Hoarfrost 60 Earth goddess: Var. 61 Dresden donkey 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


GClS\.1. l t:O~T TCl THL ~()I).' t>\\% WORMWOOD SMD I Wl\5 '50 GOOD, 'iOIJ 0\D~\" NEED 
1Q Bol\\'t.R Q::JM\t-IG 
RO.tL~ . 1 SWiO. 
S-'\D '!0\J Dol-IT 
\1(>.,'-JE. "Rl ~.' 

"The white whale! The whiiiiitt! wh •.. No, no ... My mistake! ... A black wllale! A regular blaaaaack whalle!" 

HAL., Do Yo~. HMt MY 
ID&A Wlt6RG E>IR!tl-1&16 RINfniN!n NOI&f: J:. HtJH? I~ COMINw FRol'•t7 





Sports
page 20 Tuesday, September 11, 1990 
Brigham Young win puts Irish in center of attention 
appeared anything but jovial to Still, Holtz believes his team Mirer played in eight regular­
BY FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor the players on the field. With relishes the challenge. season games last season but "It's nice to have been number 
,, 
Saturday's Michigan opener accumulated just over 36 min­After spending most of 1989 only five days away, the Irish one for three straight years at utes of playing time, completing at the top of the polls, Notre turned up the intensity several one time or another," Holtz 15 of 30 attempts for 180 Dame was looking forward to a notches. said, "but that doesn't have yards. season in which the pressure Tempers flared, minor skir­anything to do with how this Holtz said freshman B.J. was on somebody else-at least mishes broke out and Holtz ballclub will handle it (the pres­Hawkins will probably back up until its October 20 showdown eventually sought refuge in the sure). Mirer for the Michigan game, with top-ranked Miami. observation tower overlooking "This ballclub will handle it but the backup quarterback But Brigham Young's 28-21 the field. well, but not because somebody situation has not yet been upset victory over the "I went up there to jump," says we're number one." resolved. Hurricanes on Saturday put the said Holtz, who once vowed ••• ••• Irish back on top and into the never to watch practice from Consistency on offense has Center Mike Heldt returned to spotlight, whether they like it the tower unless he planned to been a problem throughout the practice Monday after missing or not. jump from it. "Actually, I went preseason, but Holtz expressed time last week due to a hip "College football has really up there to keep from stran­Rick Mlrer confidence in sophomore quar­pointer. Recent speculation that deteriorated," joked Head gling somebody-namely me." played a game. terback Rick Mirer's ability to freshman Tim Ruddy would Coach Lou Holtz after seeing In reality, Monday's lively Defending the number-one handle the signalcalling duties start the Michigan game at cen­the latest Associated Press poll practice session was the prod­ranking is difficult for any after Monday's practice. ter now seems unlikely. following Monday's practice. uct of several weeks of frus­team, but the task should prove "Rick's coming along," said "I just worry about his condi­"It should help ticket sales." trating off-field problems and a especially arduous in light of Holtz. "His concentration is tion," Holtz said. "There are a Holtz may have joked about desire of the team to prove it Notre Dame's 1990 schedule. very good right now. He looks lot of question marks as you go Notre Dame's number-one deserves its top spot in the easily the toughest in the na­comfortable, and he's doing into the year. Our guys haven't ranking after practice, but he polls despite not yet having tion. things well." peaked yet, I'll tell you that." Soccer teams miss big upsets Men lose to Duke, N.C. State in Metropolitan Classic but the Irish weren't far behind. Three minutesBy RICH KURZ later Kenyon Meyer bicycled in a great shotSports Writer from seven yards out, off an assist from Kevin Pendergast to knot the score at 1-1.The Notre Dame men's soccer team took to the road with high hopes going into this past The Blue Devils went ahead again after 30:11weekend's Metropolitan Life Classic in Durham, had gone by in the game when Steve SmithN.C. While the team suffered two losses, 5-2 scored on a 28-yarder. Don't look now, but theagainst Duke and 2-1 at the hands of N.C. State, first-half scoring still wasn't over. The Irish tied the positive outlook of the team wasn't dimin­it up once again on a Danny Stebbins goal, andished in the least. the teams retired for halftime with the score 2­2.The Irish knew they would have their hands Unfortunately for Notre Dame, the second ,full with the Duke Blue Devils, who were ranked half was all Duke. Midfielder Jason Hadges · lOth at game time and have since climbed to the headed in a shot off a direct kick by Benedictseventh spot in the Soccer America poll, but were just three minutes into the half, putting the sure they could play with Duke. Blue Devils ahead for good. And play with them they did. The Blue Devils The balls continued to bounce Duke's way led off the scoring in the first half as Brian Benedict scored the first goal on a shot that just see MEN I page 18eluded goalkeeper Peter Gulli at the 23:30 mark, Women defeated by powerhouses Duke, Greensboro gave them too much respect."By DAVE DIETEMAN "They (Duke) were motivated because theySports Writer have some players from South Bend on their team, as well as Dick Rosenthal's daughterThe Notre Dame women's soccer team lost for Mary Pat. It was a big game for those kids, andthe first time this season, falling 4-0 to Duke they are a very good team. On that day, theySaturday and 5-1 to UNC-Greensboro Sunday. were better than us."The Irish return home from their road trip with a season record of 1-2 after being domi­In that black Saturday against Duke, Notrenated by the Blue Devils and coming up short Dame was held to a single shot on goal whileagainst Greensboro. Still, there is no shame for the Blue Devils' frenzied attack hammered thethe Irish in these losses, as Duke, now 3-0 and Irish defense with 20 shots. Despite the Duke20th-ranked in Division I, is a national soccer goal-scoring derby, sophomore Irish goalkeeper power of great renown, and Greensboro is Michelle Lodyga turned in a stunning perfor­perenially in the Top 20 of Division II. mance in the net, recording 10 saves."Against Duke, we were very tentative at the The Observer I Andrew McCloskey Notre Dame's Sunday afternoon performancebeginning," admitted Notre Dame head coachSenior forward Danny Stebbins and the men's soccer team were Chris Petrucelli. "The pressure and stigma ofunable to upset Duke or N. C. State over the weekend. see WOMEN I page 18playing a ranked team had an effect on us. We  
Black clouds formed over ND after BYU beat Miami Does the Notre Dame campus get Washington State and Hawaii could pull off an upset If the Hurricanes had won on Saturday, there would more excited over an Irish football against the Cougars. But any of those scenarios seem have been nothing to celebrate. But now it appears as win or a Miami loss? unlikely. if the Irish might have to win all of their games to Good question. Nobody really capture the national title. That is a difficult order, expected the Hurricanes to lose to In other words, BYU is a virtual shoo-in to win the considering that Notre Dame has the toughest schedule Brigham Young last Saturday, but rest of its games and finish the season undefeated. And any team has ever had since the NCAA began ranking Notre Dame lovers (and Miami the Cougars, as members of the Western Athletic strength of schedule. haters) were in for a pleasant Conference, are tied to the December 29 Holiday Bowl, It may be much too early to start thinking about bowl surprise. which does not offer nearly as much money as the games and national titles, but it certainly looks like The whole campus let out a Ken Tyslac major New Year's Day Bowls. Brigham Young has to be the favorite right now. collective jubilant scream as time World of Sports The same thing happened in 1984. The Cougars ••• expired and the Cougars --------waltzed through an easy schedule and edged a weak As co-organizer of the National College Sportswriters escaped with a 28-21 victory. Anybody who was (6-5) Michigan squad 24-17 in the Holiday Bowl to Football Poll, I feel obliged to explain why the Irish familiar with BYU's schedule, however, couldn't help finish undefeated and claim the national were not ranked number one this week. but notice dark rain clouds forming over Notre Dame's championship. Holiday Bowl officials just weren't Notre Dame, though slightly behind in first-place Saturday night victory parade. offering enough money to attract a decent opponent for votes, would have been number one if it weren't for the top-ranked Cougars. our voter from the Daily Nebraskan .. This guy didn't The rest of Brigham Young's regular-season schedule even put the Irish, Michigan or Arkansas in his Top 20, has the Cougars playing at home against such It may be different this year. Maybe the Holiday Bowl saying that he couldn't vote for teams that hadn't powerhouses as Washington State, San Diego State, will release Brigham Young from its contract if the played yet. Colorado State, New Mexico and Utah State. The Cougars have a shot at the national title. Maybe So it looks like Notre Dame will have to wait another Cougars' road schedule is just as weak; they will travel Holiday Bowl officials will up the ante and find a week (assuming the Irish beat Michigan Saturday) to Oregon, Air Force, Wyoming, Utah and Hawaii. decent opponent for the Cougars. Maybe Notre Dame before they are number one in our poll. Unless the Colorado State has a passing attack which could give would take a cut in revenue to go to the Holiday Bowl if Nebraskan can find another reason to leave Notre Brigham Young some trouble. And some say that a title was at stake. But maybe not. Dame off the list next week.  








