------------------~----------------------~----------------~-----------------------------------------.-­

SPECIAL 
LiBRARY cp'
HE3BURC:iH 
£:I •'-/,, ~ ~ I ] H 14, 1990
VOL. XXIII NO. 15 
IN 465!56
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE NOTRE DAME 

ND students accuse police of brutality 
By KELLEY TUTHILL News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students claim members of the South Bend Police Department used unnecessary force while making arrests during a police break­up of a party on August 31. 
Seniors Antwon Lark, 20, and James Dillard, 21, said the po­lice were unnecessarily brutal and continued to use force after they had handcuffed them during a gathering on Notre Dame Avenue. In addition, the students, who are black, claim the attack was a racial incident 
ND student attacked while jogging 
By_ MONICA YANT Associate News Editor 
A female Notre Dame student was assaulted Thursday morn­ing while jogging beside St. Joseph's Lake, according to Se­curity officials. She was unin­jured. 
The victim was jogging alone 
grabbed from behind by an as­
sailant she described as male, 
Caucasian, between 19-21 years 
old, medium build, between 
5'9" and 5'10", medium length 
brown hair parted in the mid­
dle, dark eyes and freckles. He 
see ATTACK I page 4 
perpetuated by  the  all-white  the incidents surrounding the  volved in a dispute with another  not  be reached  for  comment  
members of the police depart­ment. South Bend Police Depart­ment's Internal Affairs office is  arrest. "Capt. Hemmerlein is the fairest man in the world and the Chief of Police doesn't tol­ student after they allegedly dented his car accidentally. The police approached the area where Lark and Dillard  because police reports concern­ing the accidents were not available. Williams could not be reached for further comment.  
familiar with the students' complaints, said Capt. Brent Hemmerlein. "At this point it is not under investigation." He said the students have yet to come to the station to fill out the necessary complaint forms. . Lt. Norval Williams of the South Bend Police Department said he had no knowledge of the incident. He said prior to commenting on this incident he would have to learn more about  erate racial incidents," he said. The students have the option of filing a complaint or a violation of civil rights suit. "Go for it. If it's the truth let someone pay the price. If the students are ly­ing to save their skin, let them pay for the lie." At approximately 11:30 p.m. there were several police cars on Notre Dame Avenue during parties at students' homes. Dillard and Lark became in- were standing shortly after the dispute. Witnesses describe the scene differently and it is un­clear whether the police were aware· of the students' fight. While he was standing on the porch of a Notre Dame Avenue home, Lark said he was jumped by six or seven police officers. In the process of the arrest, Lark said the police kicked him and hit him with billy clubs. The arresting officers could  "They cuffed and started beating on him," said junior Patrick Kelly. "Initially he was resisting arrest, but later he was on the ground handcuffed and they were kicking him." "They beat him past what was needed to calm him down," said junior Michael J. Miller. While Lark was lying on the ground handcuffed, Miller see POLICE! page 8  


Firing up for the Irish! 
The Notre Dame cheerleading team practices one of many maneuvers to be performed as they support the Fightin' Irish during the year. The Irish will kick off their football season tomorrow against Michigan. 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Iraq threatens terrorist attacks against US troops 
IRAQ (AP) -Iraq warned Thursday of possible terrorist attacks against U.S. forces, sounding the theme of Arab feelings wounded by the pres­ence of non-Moslem soldiers massed in the holy lands of Saudi Arabia. 
But a convocation of Moslem clergy in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, condemned the Iraqi annexa­tion of Kuwait and said the U.S.-led multinational force's presence was justified by Iraq's invasion. 
Meanwhile in Tokyo, the 
• U.N. Resolution 1page 6 
Japanese government an­
nounced Friday that it will pro­
vide an additional $3 billion in 
aid to more than $1 billion al­ready promised to assist peacekeeping forces in the Per­sian Gulf region and nations suffering from the U.N.-spon­sored embargo against Iraq. 
Members of the U.S. Congress had complained Japan was not 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
• Michigan Weekend 1990 • 
Friday 
4:30-6:30 p.m. Pep rally picnic. Stepan Field. Admission: students free; non-students $4.50 
7 p.m. Pep rally, Gate 3 Joyce ACC 
Saturday 
9:30 a.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, mul­tipurpose room in the Center for Social Concerns 3 p.m. Cheerleading team along with the Porn Pon Squad 
will.give a performance in front of the bookstore 5 p.m. Vigil Mass, Sacred Heart Church 
6:20 p.m. Band concert, steps of the Administration Building 
7:05 p.m. Step off to stadium 
8 p.m. Kickoff, Notre Dame vs. Michigan, Notre Dame Stadium 
doing more in the crisis, and enough to stop any Iraqi at­had not contributed enough in tack. light of its high dependence on Iraq's warning came in a Middle East oil. Iraq and memorandum to the U.S. Kuwait possess 20 percent of charge d'affaires in Baghdad, the world's oil reserves, second according to the Iraqi News only to Saudi Arabia. Agency, monitored in Nicosia, 
In another development, the Cyprus. It said Iraq was re­
U.S. commander in Saudi Ara­sponding to a U.S. claim that bia said the flow of equipment Iraq-based terrorists were for American forces into Saudi preparing to attack U.S. tar­Arabia was eight days behind gets. schedule. The commander, The United States is creating though. said the troops and a "pretext" for aggression, the military hardware already lo­memorandum was quoted as cated there were sufficient saying, and "Iraq reserves its legitimate right to self-defense, to reciprocate and to retaliate frrmly against these parties if it becomes a target." 
"President Bush should ex­pect that the crimes the United States of America is commit­ting against the Arab nation and the insult it is directing to the Islamic shrines by occupy­ing holy lands will undoubtedly produce a natural reaction from the Arab and Islamic 
see IRAQ I page 4 
New parking for home game days 
By MEGAN JUNIUS News Writer 

Parking has been changed for the 1990 football season due to the construction of the new DeBartolo academic quad. 
"The Red East and Orange lots along Edison and Juniper Roads have been newly paved this year in order for better utilization of space," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
The A and B lots have been moved to Red West, and White Field, north of Stepan Center, will also be used for parking, he said. 
Transpo will provide bus service to and from the sta­dium. 
As in recent years, three 

hours prior to kickoff, Indiana State Police, St. Joseph County Police. South Bend Police, Notre Dame Security, Indiana Toll 
Road Commission and local volunteers will change the two­way roads around campus into one-way. direct routes to foot­ball parking. 
Throughout the game, volun­teers and traffic workers will keep in constant communica­tion in order to alert each other of changes in weather. traffic accidents and other factors that could affect the flow of traffic, Johnson said. For one hour after the game, the inter­sections are patrolled to main­tain a one-way traffic flow away from campus. 
"Students often unknowingly get involved with this one-way traffic," Johnson said. Stu­dents are also warned by cam­pus security to remove vehicles parked in football parking ar­
eas. 

According to Johnson, this will affect commuter students who currently park in C1. They will need to move their vehicles 
to the White Field. 
"We will begin towing cars in the reserve lots at 6 a.m." said Johnson. 
Parking will cost $30 a day for recreational vehicles and $5 a day for cars. 
"The quality service to foot­ball fans is tremendous." John­son said. "Vehicles are moved quickly and safely by the traffic force." 


The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Freedom of speech is for everybody 
"Congress shall 
make no law 

' ... abridging the free­dom of speech. " ­from an ancient legal code. 
Have you heard what's being said these days? All this 

talk about promiscu-Paul Pearson ity, aggression and Asst News Editor rebellion of authority. --;-·....,.--...----,-­It's enough to shock anybody. I mean, in China you could go to jail for this. Hey, wait a minute. In America, you can go to jail for this? That's right, folks. It looks like these days, when a large part of the world is in a rush to embrace American ideals, the coun­try that may be moving the furthest away from these ideals is America itself. For example, this summer, my home state of Florida once again showed its level of tolerance and intelligence with its treatment of the rap group 2 Live Crew. A federal judge, under the mistaken assumption that they are the first musical group to use ob­scenities on a record, ruled "that "As Nasty as They Wanna B" is obscene cannot be purchased at all, even by consenting adults. I guess he thought that I, as well as all music listeners, get my views on love and the opposite sex not from my parents, church, or teachers, but from an album (though I am glad he no longer thinks that I get it from my friends). To prove that this is not just a regional problem (and thus can be labeled a quirk of us "damn Southerners"), I'll give you an­other bizarre example. This summer, in Reno, Nevada, the rock group Judas Priest was accused of causing two depressed youths to commit suicide. How? By suppos­edly inserting a subliminal message of "Do it" on one of their albums which the two youths were listening to right before they shot themselves. Of course, they also had been drinking 
lots of beer. smoking marijuana, dropped 
out of school, and were having problems 
with girlfriends, family and life in general. 
But, then again, we all know that these 
things don't lead to suicide. Backward mes­sages on heavy metal albums do, right? 
Fortunately, the judge in this case ruled that the music of Judas Priest had nothing to do with the suicides (perhaps foreseeing that I would write this column). However. the battle continues ... 
C'mon, people, let's brush up on our American history a bit. The Constitution and the Bill of Rights were not created to protect the popular, the conventional or the stable. They were designed specifically to make sure that the freedom to say things unpopular, different or shocking would not be squashed by the moral majority. 
If America is not committed to protecting everything the Bill of Rights stands for. then we have no choice but to get rid of it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thoss of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Production  Thursday's Staff  News  
Cristina Ortiz Jeanne Blasi  Sports Ken Tysiac  Brad Galko Frank Rivera  
Accent Brian Grunert Fran Moyer Robyn Simmons  Circulation Bill O'RourKe Man Novak  Systems Cesar Capella Paul Froning  
Football Preview  
Greg Guffey  
Frank Pastor  
Lisa Eaton  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved. 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 14. Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 83 Yesterday's low: 61 
National high: 111: (Borrego Springs, Calif.) National low: 26 (Stanley, 
Idaho) 
Forecast: Cloudy and 
cooler today with a 50 
percent chance of morn­
ing thunderstorms, then 
clearing in the afternoon. 
Highs from the middle to 
upper 70s. Mostly clear 
and cooler tonight. Lows 
in the middle 50s. Mostly 
sunny and still cooler to­
morrow Highs from 70 to

FRONTS: 
• • •• • 75. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
X


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
SMC Junior Class mass will be held on sunday,Sept. 16, at 4: 30 p.m. in Lemans Chapel. 
The first pep rally of the season will be tonight at 7 
p.m. in the JACC. 
Anyone interested in serving as a research chair­man or vice-chairman for the CBA-AC Investment Fund must arrange an interview time by calling Michael at 283­The ND/SMC N.A.A.C.P. will hold its first meeting 1722. All interviews must be completed by Monday night. 
tonight at 6:30p.m. in 115 Crowley Hall. 
The Notre Dame cheerleading team and porn 
Logan Center volunteers come and join us tonightpon squad will give a performance in front of the book­at our monthly dance from 7:30-10 p.m. Van pick-upsstore on Saturday at 3 p.m. in preparation for the ND­6:45 p.m. or 7:15 p.m. at Holy Cross, SMC. 6:50 p.m. or' Michigan game. 
7:20p.m. at Main Circle, ND. Call Janet 284-5090 or Sally
283-3783. 

Any student interested in becoming a member of the cfub Coordination Council should call Jeff Stark at 
Then;: will be a picnic today from 4:30-6:30 p.m. at
283-3376. 
Stepan Field. North and South Dining HalJs will be closed. 
WORLD Margaret Thatcher says she is 
criticized for qualities that are ad­
Searchers recovered debris Thursday in the mired in men. "The characteristics area where a missing jetliner was believed to have ditched that they criticize you for, that you are in the North Atlantic with 16 people aboard. The Boeing strong-minded, that you make firm 727 disappeared Tuesday off Newfoundland. Transport and tough decisions, are also charac­Canada spokesman Dick P11pper said a Canadian Forces teristics which, if you were a man, they search plane spotted the debris, and a Coast Guard ship would praise you for," she said in an dispatched to the area retrieved five plastic-foam cylin­interview published Thursday in the ders about 240 miles southeast of Cape Race. Pepper said October issue of Woman's Journal. "I think they have he did not know what their use was. He described them as not yet fully come to terms with that." "five hard-packed Styrofoam cylinders, 14 inches in 
length, 4 3/4 inches in diameter, with brass screws in one end." 
NATIONAL 

Florida's Lotto jackpot reached $100 million
David Souter's mother didn't blame her son for Thursday with tickets for Saturday's drawing selling at ashowing up at his Supreme Court confirmation hearings rate of 500 a second. Players poured in from other stateswith a 5 o'clock shadow and a ragged look. "He looks ex­and countries with dreams of becoming millionaires, or ofhausted, after all he's been through," Helen Souter said. 
making a few bucks selling the $1 tickets at a higher price Sl!:e recalled watching all of Robert Bork's confirmation to those who could not make it to Florida. Two men fromhearings live and expected similar coverage of her son on New Orleans, Joe Revolta and Robert Bache, plunkedCable News Network, which isn't broadcasting all of the down $10,000 in cash Wednesday for 10,000 tickets.
hearings. "I was just watching it and they turned it off" "You might not have much of a chance," Revolta said,s~e said. "I'm very much disappointed." ' "but you have an even less chance if you don't play." 
INDIANA ALMANAC 

On September 14: A Florida man was indicted Thursday in 
eln 1814: Francis Scott Key
the alleged illegal immigration scheme in which 
wrote his famous poem "The Star­
two former aides to U.S. Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind., 
Spangled Banner" after witness­
were charged earlier. Pyong Song Yi was indicted 
ing the British bombardment of
by a federal grand jury on one count of conspir­
Fort McHenry in Maryland.

acy to violate immigration laws and four counts 
of knowingly supplying false documents to the 
eln 1963: Mary Ann Fischer of 
Immigration and Naturalization Service.Yi faces 
Aberdeen, S.D., gave birth to 
maximum penalties of five years in prison and 
America's first surviving quintu­
$250,000 in fines on each count. 
plets, four girls and a boy. eTen years ago: President Jimmy 
Vincennes University announced Thursday 
Carter's national campaign man­
that it has confirmed three cases of measles on 
ager, Tim Kraft, announced he 
campus and is urging students and faculty to be 
was taking a "leave of absence"
immunized. The measles victims have rubella, or 
after it was revealed that he was
"old-fashioned" measles, not the German measles 
being investigated for alleged co­
considered highly dangerous to unborn children. 
caine use. Kraft was later exoner­
However, the health board says pregnant women 


ated of the cocaine charge by a
shouldn't be vaccinated, and women shouldn't be­
special prosecutor. 

come pregnant within three months after receiv­
ing the rubella vaccine. 


~--------------------------------~--------~------------------------------------------~---------------------­

The Observer page 3 

Forum lets students speak 

Ferraro to kick off lecture series 
The Observer!Oave Short Bill Keen, a Carroll sophomore, speaks at the Open Forum at the Field­house Mall. The Open Forum, sponsored by the Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Committee will run on a trial basis until October break. Any ideas or issues can be expressed at the Forum. 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
News Writer 
A new program allowing stu­dents to take the podium at the Fieldhouse Mall to speak their minds began Thursday. 
The Open Forum is spon­sored by Student Union Board (SUB) Ideas and Issues Com­mittee, headed by sophomore Bill Keen. He said that the Ideas and Issues Committee firmly believes that such a fo­rum is necessary on campus. 
Opinions on subjects ranging from duLac to advice for freshmen to opposing views on religion were voiced. A sugges­tion was made that the time of the forum be moved to some­
~ 

HAVE A GREAT 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR AT ND! 
Senior-Butch Junior-Didi Freshman-Mike 
Love, 
Pop, Mom, and Richie 

Tonight 


I 
Closing Reception 
Special African Dishes Africa Music and Dance 


Stepan Center. 8:00 ptn 
$2 (payable at the door) ~~ 
time during the lunch hour. 

ThP.  turnout  for  this  first  
meeting  was  less than  SUB  
anticipated.  It  featured  only  

four speakers, two ND gradu­ates and two current under­graduates. 
Every Thursday until October break, Open Forum will be con­ducted on a trial basis. There are no formal speakers sched­uled as of yet, although major club heads and organization leaders dealing with controver­sial issues are being contacted. 
Keen said SUB anticipates large crowds in the future and hopes to be able to expand its scheduled time for more than an hour per meeting. They are also considering the possibility of adding another microphone and conducting some meetings in a debate style. 
If these first sessions from 4 
to 5 p.m. on Thursdays are successful, Bill Keen says that Open Forum will definitely be continued through the winter months and into the spring. A location for those cold months or rainy days has not yet been determined. 
Keen said forums like this have been extremely popular at other colleges and universities and given the chance, could flourish at Notre Dame. He was quick to stress that the success of this program depends com­pletely upon the enthusiasm of students. 

srEtOO}.NV 
PRIME RIB~ ~(\1
SEAFOOD ~JCf[) ~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


page 4 The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
was wearing faded blue jeans 
and a light blue, striped long 
sleeved shirt. 
She did not hear the assailant 
say anything because she was 
wearing headphones, according 
to Assistant Director of Secu­
rity Chuck Hurley. She was able 
to break free from her as­
sailant and yell for help. The 
assailant then fled toward 
Douglas Road. 
The victim flagged down a 
motorist just west of the Uni­
versity's power plant on Lake 
Road and the two of them 
stopped a Security officer near 
the North Dining Hall. 
Security officers were able to 
begin the investigation minutes 
after the assault occurred. 
Hurley estimated only three 
minutes elapsed from the time 
the victim broke free from the 
attacker to the time she found 
an officer. 
Security officers were as­sisted by St. Joseph County po­lice and a South Bend police canine unit in their search of the paths around and near the lake, by Moreau Seminary and around Douglas Road, but they found no suspect. 
Hurley advised students not to be alone in remote areas at any time. "It doesn't matter what time of day or night it is," he warned, "just try not to get in isolated areas and always have a companion with you." 
Security is investigating the incident and asks anyone seeing someone matching the descrip­tion of the assailant to contact Security. 
Hurley added that students who see "someone they feel is suspicious in nature" should call Security. "Even if someone isn't doing something criminal in nature at that time, give us a chance to check it out." 
"We'll find out if they belong here or not," he said. 
The assault is the first to be reported to Security this year. Last Spring, Security received a report of an assault of a Saint Mary's student on Easter Sun­day and of a ND female student April 19 in the D-6 parking lot. The reports of those assaults came within a two-day period. 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 
masses," said the memoran­dum. 
INA said the U.S. claims were contained in a note delivered Wednesday to the Foreign Min­istry in Baghdad. 

WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 
CALL TODAY 
272-7653 

Reed: Africa faces post-independence crisis 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
Facing debt and underdevel­opment, Africa has found itself in a post-independence crisis I that will require restructuring and changes within the system and state. 
As part of Africa Week, the issue of "The Crisis of Post-In­dependence Africa" was dis­cussed last night in a fireside­chat led by Professor Cy Reed of Wabash College. 
Only recently freed from hun­dreds of years of Western colo­nialism, Africa faces the chal­lenges of demonstrating the ability to control itself and to assimilate its economy into the world economy. The continent faces "a crisis of accountability, a crisis of inappropriate domestic policy," Reed said. 
K th 0 d" · · The Observer/Dave Short 
"Africa has not adjusted to the t~ne 1 durgans, 1recto.r of.M1nonty Student Affairs, speaks to students after a discussion on "The Crisis changes of the 70s." o est-n ependence Afnca, an event held in observance of Africa Week. 
Africa has found itself in its current predicament as a result international pressure for free of a reliance on a fragile sys­markets and free elections does tem of supply and demand, ac­not address the issues of equity cording to Reed. Dependence on and accountability," he said. foreign aid and, in turn, foreign influence on domestic affairs Reed noted throughout the has resulted in conflict between discussion that the state role Western and African interests. must be changed from an en­
tirely authoritarianistic one to 
Western nations adhere to one that can both monitor the the theory that Africa must de­market and leave some free­velop free markets and free dom. elections if it is to succeed i:1 Too much control might supporting itself. These staples result in immigration and a re­of the Western world simply do liance on subsistence farming. not fit into a primarily agricul­A completely free market, on tural continent, Reed said. "The the other hand. could amplify 
For those interested in joining the 
ND-SMC Pre-Law 




Society, 
there will be a general meeting on Monday, September 17, at 7 p.m. in the Cushing Auditorium. All are encouraged to attend. 


0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

Eucharistic Ministers Workshop 
Sunday, September 16th, 2:30pm Tuesday, September 18th, 10:00pm Sacred Heart Church 
the  division  between  the  
wealthy and the poor.  
"Having  a  'kinder  and  

gentler' Africa is not a role the state will be able to have," said Reed. 
The group also tried to de­termine who was to blame for this crisis. Some said the prob­lem was a result of the colonialism of Africa by Europeans during the past few centuries, and on the "stranglehold" in which the West holds Africa. One South Bend resident, Abdul Nur. said that it is in the interest of the West to prevent Africa from developing both agriculturally and industrially. 
Some placed blame specifi­cally on the International Mon­etary Fund and the World Bank for failing to support African interests, while others took the stance that the crisis is a result of the misuse of foreign aid by and corruption within the African governments. 
"The crisis is deeper than we intend to believe," said one par­ticipant. "We look like strangers to ourselves." 



-----~-­

Friday, September 14. 1990 The Observer page 5 
Faculty discusses substance abuse 

By SIOBHAN 
MCCARTHY 
News Writer 

The Faculty Senate committee held its first meeting of the academic year last night and passed a resolution which ad­dresses greater faculty in­volvement in areas ranging from athletics, tenure to disci­pline. 
The resolution established a Faculty Committee on Gover­nance. As stated directly on the agenda, the committee was set up in order to examine the current governance structure and "make recommendations for change that will enhance the governance of the university through increased faculty par­ticipation." 
Specific issues which this committee will examine include: 
•Mechanisms 
for greater !acuity involvement in such matters as academic concerns, benefits, salary, classroom fa­cilities, athletics, grievance procedures and faculty disci­pline; 

•Increased 
participation of elected faculty representatives at different stages in tenure and promotion decisions; 

•Evaluation 
of the composi­tion and roles of Academic Council, Graduate Council and College Council. 


The committee also discussed the formation of a faculty alco­hol assistance program. In ac­cordance with federal law, the University must have a written program in order to help fac­ulty members cope with sub­stance abuse problems. Be­cause of this, University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy di-
Juliano met Charles Mc­Carthy, president of SERV, and Paul Radich, vice-president, at 5:15p.m. mass in Sacred Heart which he attends regularly. To­gether the three talked about 
the idea of establishing a group like SERV last semester and it came to fruition this term, said McCarthy. 
According to Father Steve Newton, advisor to the group, the purpose of SERV is to 
AP Photo 
Protecting his own 
A masked man protects his property in Vosloorus, near Johan­nesburg, South Africa. Over 700 people have been killed in the townships around Johannesburg in the past month. 

I TYPESETTING AND PRINTING I 325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219) 277-3355 OFFICE SUPPLIES 
Being a Marine Corps Officer can open the door to opportu­each paying more than $1 ,400 nities you may have thought were beyond your reach. It • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn helped Marine Officer Charles Bolden become a NASA astro­more than $2,400 naut. And if you're willing to make the commitment, it could 
• Free civilian flying lessons help you also. You can get started while you're in college 

• Astarting salary of more than $20,000
with our undergraduate officer com­missioning program. You could take advantage of getting: 
• 
$100 a month while in school 

• 
Freshmen and Sophomores train during two six-week summer sessions 



Students encourage religious vocations 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Writer 
A group of students at the Universit:v of Notre Dame have formed a new organization ~ith. the purpose of encourag­Ing and supporting religious vocations. 
SERV, Students Encouraging Religious Vocations, was orga­nized and founded in large part by Herb Juliano, a layman who resides in Holy Cross parish. 
Hewantp 
togoas~ar 

asyou can, 

Immediately upon graduation you could become a Marine ~ Officer. It's your choice. . . Maybe you're the kind of · man we're looking for. 
newlooking& akw#JOdmen. 
"encourage, through religious vocations." 
prayer, 
rectly requested that the committee discuss specific courses of action in order to deal with this problem. 
The Faculty Senate committee also chose to reemphasize the importance of a resolution passed last May, which urged the University of Notre Dame to sponsor "lectures, symposia and debates on the topic of women ordination," in support of the Year of Women. 
Improved faculty benefits were also discussed. Specific suggestions included extended maternal leave options, medical and dental benefits and im­proved investment vehicles. 
Within the student affairs committee, teachers also dis­cussed their attempt to ensure that students, especially ath­letes, are adequately prepared for class. 
He said also that Campus 
Ministry is supportive of the 
organization. 
The group is rather informal 
at the time, but they do have 
some goals in mind, said Mc­
Carthy. 
Cards are distributed to the student body with prayers from Campus Ministry and SERV wants to have their prayer for religious vocations included on them, said McCarthy. 
SERV also wants to increase the female membership, since out of the 29 members there is currently only one woman, he said. 
Although they do not have any definite plans, McCarthy said they would like to sponsor some movies in the future and perhaps take a weekend to visit a religious shrine next semester. 
For the moment however, he said, SERV is geared toward 

American Heart Association 
Happy Birthday Do-Cake! 
Loop, Pokit and Cricky 
Get Sick! 


Ifyou are seeking a unique, challenging job with the security of knowing it is guaranteed upon graduation should you choose to accept the commission, calll-800-728-9228 for more information about the Marine Officer Programs. 
------------~ ---------------------------------------------------------~--------..--~~----.... 
page 6 The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990 
Hoosier returns home 
(AP) -Debra Hoffer and her 1-year-old son returned to Fort Wayne on a private plane Thursday night after being trapped more than a month in Kuwait. 
She hugged family and friends who gathered to greet her about 10 p.m., then told re­porters she fears for her hus­band's safety. Abdul Latees Hashem was forced to stay be­hind in his native Kuwait. 
Hoffer said that when West­erners are married to Kuwaitis "it puts them in danger because they (Iraqis) say they'll kill them if you hide a Westerner and you know where they are. They say you'll get hung or they'll shoot you." 
She added: "They're killing people.... People that help peo­ple, they kill them. They bomb houses. They do a lot of things." 
Hoffer and her young son Ja­son had been hiding in Kuwait since the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion. After leaving Kuwait this week, they flew to Baghdad, London and Raleigh, N.C., en route to Fort Wayne. 
Hoffer's mother, Uoris Hof­
fer~  said  a  Fort Wayne busi­ 
nessman  flew  her  husband,  
Chris,  to  Raleigh-Durham In­ 

ternational Airport in North Carolina on a private plane Thursday. The businessman did not want to be identified, but he was providing the family with a "banquet of pizzas" for the re­union, she said. 
Correction 
In a story on the Alumni Senior Club in Wednesday's Observer Reynold Nesiba was incorrectly identified as the president of the Graduate Student Union. Arsene Balihuta is the club's president. 


APPhoto
Horse play 

Asoldier flips another as members of the U.S. Army 82nd Airborne Division look on during a pause in training Wednesday in Saudi Arabia. Operation Desert Shield is in its sixth week of operation. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents Catholic University's National Players performing THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 

Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
j Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
jIWashington Hall 
<._·'71 

Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit. • Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 


U.N. resolution allows food to Iraq 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­The U.N. Security Council overwhelmingly voted late Thursday to allow food ship­ments to Iraq and occupied Kuwait only "to relieve human suffering" and said relief agen­cies must distribute the aid. 
The wording of the resolu­tion, which passed 13-2, sought to maintain the narrow restric­tions under which aid could be sent, in line with a resolution passed after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
The council rejected an alter­native Cuban-sponsored resolu­tion that would have opened the door to unlimited food ship­ments to the estimated 19 mil­lion people in Iraq and Kuwait, including hundreds of thou­sands of foreigners trapped by the invasion. 
Cuba and Yemen voted against the resolution. 
The United States, Soviet Union, Britain, France, Finland and Canada sponsored the res­olution. Also voting in favor were China, Colombia, Ethiopia, Ivory Coast, Malaysia, Romania and Zaire. 
Under Security Council Reso­lution 661, passed four days after Iraq's invasion, only med­ical supplies may be sent to Iraq or Kuwait, or, "in humani­tarian circumstances, food­stuffs." 
India and the Philippines, however, have appealed to the Security Council's sanctions committee for permission to send food to their people still stranded in Iraq and Kuwait. 
Iraq has said it will not feed the 140,000 Indians, 93,000 Sri Lankans and 60,000 Filipinos it holds, but that they must rely on their governments. 
The resolution passed Thurs­day said the International Committee of the Red Cross or "other appropriate humanitar­ian agencies" should distribute the food or supervise its distri­bution. 
That left open the possibility that the Iraqi Red Crescent, one of the Moslem national chari­ties that are members of the ICRC, might be allowed to han­dle food distribution. 

r~~,:~~SCHWiNN--~1 
~ ~4 CYCLING ~ ~ 
J. and ~ ~ 
FITNESS •
I;·········· BAKER'S BIKE SHOP, INC. 
1,··.·.

• SALES • SERVICE • CLOTHING I
II
EXERCISERS • ACCESSORIES ' BIKES STORED & BOXED. STUDENT DISCOUNT · ..,·:.· ON KRIPTONITE LOCKS. .•.
I 
~~

. CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY 
Ill CIC ~.

135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 3835 UNCOLNWAY EAST
I

• (219)277-8866 MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 ,· ROSELAND (219)259-4862 
)QIC!-• .D:~~~-~~4!1K>.Q~Ci::~::,..~~;aD(;~:'L
!

ie*** • 
< 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

0 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
WALKAWAY • • • 

A NOONTIME WALKING PROGRAM FOR FITNESS 

~ SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 ~ '""" 8: 00 pm '""" 
LUNCHTIME ON TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS 

~ MORRIS CIVIC ~ 
STARTS SEPTEMBER 18 12:15-12:45PM 

~ AUDITORIUM ~ 
~ ALL SEATS RESERVED$ 19.00 ~ 
ENJOY FRESH AIR AND GOOD COMPANY 

~ TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ~ 
MEET IN FRONT OF WASHINGTON HALL BY 12:15 
~ THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM "?' "?' BOX OFFICE, NIGHT WINDS. ~
WEAR GOOD WALKING SHOES 

~ RECORD CONNECTION AND ~ ~ ALL THE USUAL IN AND OUT "t "?' TOWN LOCATIONS. "?'
2 MILE ROUTES 

~ ~ 
~ TICKETS ALSO AVAILABLE AT ~ ~ LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER ~ 
MODERATE PACE 

~ CHARGE BY PHONE: ~
SPONSORED BY NVA 

~ 284-9190 ~ ~ PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE ~ 
~--------------------------------------------~~********~\qf~llq~i****************~ 
Friday, September 14, 1990 
The Observer!Oavid Short 

Safe on earth 
Flanner Freshman Shawn Donovan crawls out of a portable plane­tarium set up for viewing by astronomy students. 

* 
Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 1 00 Master Artists 

* 
Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $15! 

* 
Wide Variety of photographs ...... beautiful landscapes to high tech., ETC. 


*This is your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 

The Observer page 7 
Middle east week planned 
By RENEE YOUNG News Writer 
A mass dedicated to the family and friends of the Saint Mary's and South Bend community who are stationed or being held in Kuwait will begin Middle East Awareness Week, which runs from September 16-20 at Saint Marv's. 
The collection from the mass will be donated to the· Just Kuwaiting Group of South Bend. The group is designed to offer support to those in the community who have loved ones in Kuwait. 
After the mass, Aurora Yaw of the Just Kuwaiting group will hold a discussion on the si­tuation of those in Kuwait. Following the discussion, yellow ribbons will be distributed for tying on car antennas. 
On Monday, students are in­vited to a panel discussion held by Professors Teresa Marcy and Jerome McElroy to discuss the political and economic sides of the Middle East crisis. 
During the week there will be card signings in the dining hall and the tying of yellow ribbons on trees to show support for the Just Kuwaiting group. There will also be a donation can in the snack bar of Haggar College Center for donations to the group. 
According to Maureen Lowry, vice president of Student Af­fairs at Saint Mary's, the pur­pose of the Middle East Aware­ness Week is to heighten the awareness of the conflict and to let the South Bend commuc nity show their concern for the welfare of their loved ones. 
Wall St. raises questions of money, ethics 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
News Writer 

Earning $800,000 per day at the cost of your morals was one of the dilemmas posed to a group of business majors, teachers, and observers at Wednesday night's discussion in the Carroll Hall auditorium. 
Saint Mary's student Coleen Ebner introduced the first in a film series that will take place to provide topics for discussion. The main attraction was "Wall Street," a film based on manipulation and greed. 
According to main character Gordon Gekko (Michael Dou­glas), "Greed is good. Greed is right. Greed works. Greed clari­fies, cuts through and captures the essence of the evolutionary spirit." 
The conversation following the film showed that participat­ing Saint Mary's students and teachers believe otherwise. 
Professor William Shannon asked the audience, "Do you think that's what it's like if you want to be in business?" One student replied, "Being at Saint Mary's has helped us to develop our ethics. Money isn't that im­portant." 
Beyond the obvious theme of money-hungry brokers who go for the jugular, the movie ex­hibits a pattern of moral deval­uations. Ann Plamondon, pro­fessor of communication, dance, and theater, cited deval­uations of human relationships, hard work and creativity, in her program notes. 
Taking these thoughts into consideration, the discussion shifted from a mini-debate about stocks to sexism. Paral­lels were drawn between "Wall Street" and "Pretty Woman" in which women are portrayed only as secretaries and subor­dinate and often promiscuous characters. 
Shannon stated, "That movie 

(Wall Street) trivialized women. 
What kind of message is that 
sending to the women today? Is 
that what you're going to be 
after you graduate?" 
Kelly Brantman, a Saint 

Mary's student, saw "a theme 
of the tendency to conform." A 
topic easily identified with, stu­
dents recognized the dangers of 
emulating other people. 
The discussion concluded with a .penetrating evaluation of greed. One student expressed her amazement that "someone can sit and look at his food when there are starving people in the world." Speakers admit­ted to being greedy themselves, but not to the extent of Gekko. 
The purpose of Saint Mary's College Popular Culture Group is to "build community among students and faculty," said Shannon. It is funded by the Department of Business Admin istration and Economics. 
9 
I 

1:1::1
:z 
Cl: 
9 H 
I 

:Jvficliiana t£{ectrofogy 
C.P..E., R.E., I.E.A. 

Medically Recognized Permanent Hair Removal 
3130 S.llth St., Niles, MI 49120 (1 block N. ol the MI state line on US. 31.33) 684-6778 by Appointment 
A FREE Seminar for SENIOR YEAR NursingStudents 
Transition is a one-day program designed to help you make the transition from student to professional. 
Saturday, October 27, 1990 
This no-cost seminar includes sessions, lunch and breaks. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging ior out-of-town participants at the Kahler Hotel. 
Sessions include: 
• 
Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 

• 
Coping Measures ior the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Financial planning ior the Young Professional 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
Discharge Planning ior Senior Adults: Special Needs for Special People 

• 
Overview oi Organ Transplantation 

• 
Preparing for the job Search 

• 
Technological Advances in Outpatient Surgery 


Deadline for registration is Oct. 17. 1990 
Call collect 507-286-7030 for registration information and brochure. 
Transition is sponsored by 
Mayo Medical Center 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
An Artirn),l/tH' ActtOn/Equ,ll ( )fJ!X>rtunt/1 tmplrM't 

.­
page 8 
Students 
say police 
hold grudge 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Antwon Lark and James Dillard were not the only students who believe they were mistreated by the South Bend Police on August 31. 
Another student was also arrested for "no reason," while standing on the side­walk on Notre Dame Avenue, said junior Patrick Kelly. 
The student was treated roughly and suffered injuries to his wrist when he was handcuffed during the course of the arrest, said Kelly. 
The arrested student, who asked to remain anonymous, said after the police tried to clear the area of the gather­ings, he wandered back to the scene. He was "roughed up," handcuffed and ar­rested for interfering with the business of a police offi­cer, he said. 
"I am confident that the reason I was arrested was to show people that they (the police) meant business," he said. 
In the squad car on the way to jail the student said a police officer was verbally abusive. 
Another student, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he was standing on Notre Dame Av­enue with his friends when the police told them to go home. 
As the student was walking away, an officer asked him if he lived there. Although he said he did not provoke the officers, the student said he was arrested because he was "one or two steps ahead of the others." 
During the course of his arrest, the student said an officer threw him against a car and hit him twice in the face. "I didn't do a thing ... I didn't say a word," he said. 
The student claims he suf­fered from a cut to the fore­head and a black eye. 
Students suggest that the police, having been on Notre 
Dame Avenue all evening, were unable to react profes­sionally to the situation. 
"The police were pumped up," said Dillard. "They (the police) were looking for something to do," Lark agreed. 
"If the police put limits on parties and were consistent (in enforcing them), they wouldn't get out of control," he added. 
"The police were very un­professional with the stu­dents," one student said. "As ratty as students can be, this was uncalled for." 
Although junior Michael J. Miller, a witness, is not sure the events of August 31 could be called racial, he did describe the events as "anti­Notre Dame." 
"While some [police offi­cers] are professional, with some it is so obvious they hold a grudge against stu­dents," he added. 
Although Kelly cannot say whether the eveftts of August 31 were racially motivated, he did know "the cops used unnecessary force." 



Police 
continued from page 1 
claims police officers beat him and banged his head against the pavement. 
Lark said that while he was somewhat under the influence of alcohol, Dillard was rela­tively sober. 
When people are drinking al­cohol they can get "out of hand," said Williams. "They don't know what they are do­ing ... attitudes change." 
The porch was lit by a light which a police officer allegedly wanted extinguished. According to Lark an officer told the stu­dents inside the house to turn off the light and broke the light with his billy club when they did not comply. 
Lark said he believes the po­lice officer wanted the light out so that the students who were loitering around the house could not see what was going 
on. "They [the police] didn't want you to see what was happen-

The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990 
ing," said Mike Baumer, a resi­dent assistant from Carroll Hall, who witnessed the ar­rests. "They [the police] delib­erately smashed out the light." 
One witness who saw Lark's arrest through the window of the house described him as "struggling, really drunk and resisting arrest," however. 
"They shouldn't have been there causing trouble in the first place," said another wit­ness. "Race has nothing to do with it." 
Dillard saw the police oflicers hitting Lark and wanted to as­sist his friend, but was re­strained by Miller and Kelly who thought he should not get involved. 
A female police officer came over to Dillard and said, "You're someone else who wants to go to jail," according to Kelly and other witnesses. 
Three or four police officers allegedly threw Dillard against a house, he said. Although Dil­lard said he was "not resisting at all," he claims the officers continued to hit him after he was handcuffed. 
Baumer said he saw two po­
lice officers hold Dillard, while 
two officers punched him. 
"Nothing warrants that kind 
of abuse," Baumer· said. 
Dillard also claims that an 
officer grabbed his genitals 
while he was handcuffed. 
"They slammed him against a wall," said Kelly. "Then they punched him in the side." 
"We couldn't believe what was happening," he added. 
Once an individual is hand­cuffed, "officers should only use enough force to effect the arrest," said Williams. They may do "whatever they have to to get the cuffs on." He said that many people continually resist arrest. 
Hegardlcss of Lark and Dil­lard actions, Baumer expressed dismay that they were beaten up after thev were cuffed. lie 
docs not believe the abuse was racially-motivated because the police also were rough with white students. 
Both Dillard and Lark said they, too, sustained injuries from the beatings from the of­ficers. 
Lark claims that the police officers pushed him down the porch steps causing him to land 
face-first on the sidewalk. 
When handcuffed, he sustained 
cuts to his wrists. He also said 
he had scrapes on his back, his 
ankle was injured, he had a cut 
on his face, his lip was bleed­
ing, the back of his head was 
swollen and his fingers were 
numb from covering his head 
with his hands. 

Dillard said as a result of the 
officer's beatings his back was 
sore, he had bruises on his 
arms, cuts on his legs and sore 
ribs. 

The men called the police "overly aggressive." Although other Notre Dame students were arrested, Lark said that no one else was treated as roughly as they were. 
Lark said he was charged with public intoxication and disorderly conduct, while Dil­lard was charged with resisting arrest, public intoxication and disorderly conduct. A court date is set for October 18. 
A student who was in jail at the same time as Lark and Dil­lard salrl h, was concerned that 
see POLICE/ page 1 0 
' 

I would've bought aMacintosh even without the student discount. 
Greg Gallent 
Consumer Economics ond Housing 
Cornell UniveBity 

"The first time Isaw aMacintosh, Iwas immediately hooked. It's awork ofart. Isaw the student pricing and my next move was obviotis: get one. "Some other computers are cheaper, but they're apain to learn,and working on them can be agrueling experience. Last year, afriend bought another kind ofcomputer against my advice and has used it for maybe 15 hours.What awaste. 
-~~::;~\\ .. ·r~!n:;li~~~~:!~~~~:7E'~:;~~:~~~r, 
·;.... 

·"-· ·,_ fessional-looking documents in minutes, and you " lose the fear oflearning new programs because 
they all work in the same way. "Once you've worked with aMacintosh, there's no turning back' 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
Why do people love Macintosh·? 
Ask them. 

C1990-Computer, Inc.-·111e -logO.ond t.lacin101h ore roglate<od tr-....ruol-Compuoor,lnc. 

50 a a 
l 

Friday, September 14, 1990 
Observer news dept. announces promotions 
Special to The Observer 
The Observer's News De­partment is pleased to an­no~nce the following staff ap­pointments: 

Florentine Hoelker, a senior English major from Orient, Ohio, was promoted to Associ­ate News Editor; Monica Yant, a sophomore English major from Fort Wayne, Ind., is also an Associate News Editor; Christine Walsh, a senior Gov­ernment!PPE major from York­town Heights, NY, will now serve as Business Editor. 
In addition Bradley Galko, a 
The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. Join the Ad department or work in the Production aspect of the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. You'll be glad you did. 
senior Finance major from Manlius, NY, is a new Assistant News Editor, along with L. Peter Yob, a third-year law student from Aurora, Colo. 
New Copy Editors include Frank Rivera, a sophomore Aerospace Engineering major from Mission, Texas, and Siob­han McCarthy, a freshman from Littleton, Colo. 
In addition, the new Copy Editors for the Business page are Colleen Gannon, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Forked River, NJ, and Ali­cia Reale, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Shaker Heights. Ohio. 

It's the biggest game of this very young college season. Traditional powers. Traditional rivals. Notre Dame and Michigan. Two of the country's best, in the game that could start either on their way to the #1 ranking. 
Over 70,000 will be at the game live. Many more will be watching it on TV coast-to-coast. And when it's over, people who really want to know it all will reach for the only paper that's got it all­The National. 
For the best pre-game analysis, post-game interviews, and most complete sideline-to-sideline coverage of the big game, pick up The National today. And find out who's really #1. 

Fortheeverydayfan. Everyday. 
~ 

Available at your college bookstore, or at vending machines and newsstands around campus. 
The Observer page 9 
Cheers 
AP Photo 

President Mikhail Gorbachev congratulates the six foreign ministers after they signed an agreement to ~onclude the two plus four conference which provides the framework for German unification. Left to n~ht:. France's Roland Dumas, Soviet's Eduard Shervadnaze, U.S. James Baker, W. German's Hans­Dietnch Genscher, East German prime minister and foreign minister Lothar de Maizie.re and U.K.'s 
OOl.lglas Hurd. 
me. 
page 10 The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990 


Massive search in 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­Two hundred searchers Thurs­day poked through swamps and wooded areas around the apartment of a prime suspect 
in the killings of five  college  
students.  
Police  ordered  the  search  

while defending themselves from charges that they had botched the case. 
The search began about 8:30 
a.m. and police expected to take two days to cover nine ar­eas totaling about 10 square miles near the residence of Uni­versity of Florida freshman Edward Lewis Humphrey. 
"It's a long, slow process," said Alachua County Sheriff's Office spokesman Lt. Spencer Mann. 
Searchers found some objects before the hunt ended for the day, but there was no immedi­ate word on whether they were connected to the slayings, said Mann. He declined to describe the objects. 
Searchers included Florida National Guardsmen carrying metal detectors and rods for probing the ground, sailors from the Orlando Naval Train­ing Center, military reserve of­ficers and police from state and local agencies. Two helicopters aided searchers in the 90-de­gree heat, and about 10 dog teams were called in. 
The dogs were looking for body parts, but most searchers said police have been secretive with them about what evidence was sought. 
"They really haven't told us what to look for," said Alan Gourlay, a gunnery sergeant with the Reserve Officers Training Corps at UF. 
The searchers said they were glad to be involved, however. 
"It's kind of a challenge," said Christie Van Cura, who just graduated from boot camp at the Navy training center. "We're helping find this crazy man.,}t makes you feel impor­tant. 
Once again Thursday, police were secretive about their progress, and refused to com­ment directly on reports their case may have been badly com­promised when investigators first interrogated Humphrey, 18, following his arrest on charges of assaulting his grandmother. 
Newspaper reports have said Humphrey was questioned in the Brevard County Jail without an attorney present, and the public defenders who finally showed up were sent away when prosecutors dropped the charges, only to refile them when the lawyers left. Humphrey was not brought to court until 36 hours after he was taken into custody. 
Humphrey reportedly impli­cated one of his multiple per­sonalities in the slayings and told police where to look for some evidence. 
But the mishandling of that interrogation may have forced police to abandon all clues ob­tained from it and start their probe all over, the Gainesville Sun saidThursday. 


Florida 
Members of the Gainesville task force who interviewed Humphrey two weeks ago are being isolated from the rest of the 175-member investigative team, the Sun said. 
An unidentified law enforce­ment source told the newspaper the task force is attempting to find evidence linking Humphrey to the murders independent of any incriminating statements made during interviews in the jail. They fear a judge could find that the improper interro­gation had contaminated the entire case, the Sun said. 
Lt. Sadie Darnell called the report partially incorrect but refused to comment further. She defended the seemingly slow progress of the investiga­tion. 
"If you look at other serial killers, the cases took a long time to solve, after very labori­ous investigations," she said. 
Humphrey, whom police insist is only one of eight suspects, remains jailed in the Aug. 30 beating of his grandmother. He also faces warrants in an Octo­ber 1988 armed burglary and attempted rape in Indian River County and an Aug. 25 assault on two male UF students. 
The mutilated bodies of Sonja Larson, 18, and Christina Pow­ell, 17, were found Aug. 26 in their off-campus apartment. The next morning, Christa Hoyt, 18, was found decapi­tated in her nearby duplex. 
Manuel  Taboada,  and  Tracy  
Paules,  both  23, were  found  
dead Aug. 28 ..  


AP Photo 

Two Germans pay respect 
West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher and East Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere step behind and honor guard to lay a wreath to the tomb of the unknown soldier Thursday. 
Book may threaten lives of Israeli agents 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­against the resolution. 
The U.N. Security Council The United States, Sovietoverwhelmingly voted late 
Union, Britain, France, FinlandThursday to allow food ship­and Canada sponsored the res­ments to Iraq and occupied olution. Also voting in favorKuwait only "to relieve human were China, Colombia, Ethiopia, suffering" and said relief agen­Ivory Coast, Malaysia, Romaniacies must distribute the aid. 
and Zaire. 

The wording of the resolu­Under Security Council Heso­tion, which passed 13-2, sought lution 661, passed four daysto maintain the narrow restric­after Iraq's invasion, only med­tions under which aid could be ical supplies may be sent to sent, in line with a resolution Iraq or Kuwait, or, "in humani­
passed after Iraq invaded tarian circumstances, food­
Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
stuffs." 

The council rejected an alter­
The five permanent Security
native Cuban-sponsored resolu­Council members had said ear­tion that would have opened the 
lier Thursday that food ship­door to unlimited food ship­ments should be allowed into 
ments to the estimated 19 mil­Iraq and occupied Kuwait "to 
lion people in Iraq and Kuwait, relieve human suffering." The including hundreds of thou­permanent council members sands of foreigners trapped by are the United States, Soviet the invasion. 
Union, Britain, France and Cuba and Yemen voted China. 
lice station to bail Lark and spoke to Lark and Dillard. He Dillard out at 2:30 a.m. said that he served as a re­
Police 

September 1. source person to the students continued from page 8 The two men have contacted to let them know of their op­several agencies to seek aid and tions if they chose to proceed
the two men were not allowed advice. 

with a case against the South 
access to medical services. He Bend Police Department said Lark "was a mess" with a cut on his head. Kenneth Durgans, director At the present time Shoup
"We had no chance to seek of Minority Student Affairs, said the Office of Student Af­medical help," said Lark. said that he spoke to the men fairs is investigating the inci­
While in jail Lark and Dillard and referred them to the Office dent. said they were treated differ­of Student Affairs. ently than other Notre Dame students. Although they claim "If it did occur," said Dur­

The students also contacted other students were released gans, "I would hope that the Timothy Rouse of the local earlier in the night, Dillard was University would support the chapter of the National Associ­released at 6 a.m. September 1 students." He hopes that the ation for the Advancement of and Lark at 8 a.m., even though events of August 31 will soon Colored People (NAACP). He friends were waiting with bail come to light. "I hope all par­said the group's legal commit­money. 
ties responsible will come to­tee is looking into the issue. 
"It was strange that others gether to ensure a fair investi­were released earlier," said gation." Richard Blackmon of the Kelly. 
NAACP's legal committee was Several students, including Jeffrey Shoup, assistant di­unavailable for comment. Kelly, said they were at the po-rector of residence life, also 

Class 
continued from page 14 

PERSONALS J 
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN ESCORT ON CAMPUS ... EVERY NIGHT BPM·2AM CALL 2B3·BLUE 
~-----------------------------------­
THE SHIRT THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 
Mr. AnTostal says "WearTHE SHIRT tomorrow and let the nation (and Michigan) know who's really 
#11" 
THE SHIRT can still be purchased at the Pep Rally (Gate 3) tonight or at the concession stands tomorrow! 
GO IRISH BEAT WOLVERINES! 
Anyone who is interested in serving as a Chairman or Vice Chairman of the INVESTMENT CLUB must arrange an interview by calling 283·1722 by Monday 5pm. NO exceptions!!! 
Sarah. If Trevor doesn"t stop dive bombing me, rm going to hold him hostage. -Cath 
RICHIE-RICH (THAT'S YOU RICH) and the other Jellydonuts. Last weekend was kind of lame wouldn't you say? Rich. you are definately a "JELLYOONUT DELUXE." WAY TO PASS OUT ON A STRANGE CHAIR. Do you really remember EVERYTHING that happened?? I don't know.l've been hearing stories. I don't know about you. Pellecchia. I don't know about you and your hormones either. Well Rich, I just hope your performance isn't repeated on 
Friday night. That would really be lame. Have fun!!!! 
Love, 
us 
P.S. Toddles and Rich, You don't have a chance to win our football duel against the fearsome Bias and Subs and our impenetrable defense!!!!! Quit while you're ahead and save face''!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
...................................... 
···································· 
BRUNETTE AND ANGIE · ENOUGH ALREADY. WE'LL SEE YOU AT THE GRAPE ROAD HACIENDA TONIGHT ANn WF'LL 
ORDER SOMETHING 
DIFFERENT THIS TIME. · SID 
AND MARK 
Susan: Happy Birthday! (you thought I'd forget didn't you?) Someone special 

THE SHIRT THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 
Mr. AnTostal says "Wear THE SHIRT tomorrow and let the nation (and Michigan) know who's real\y#1' 
THE SHIRT can still be purchased at the Pep Rally (Gate 3) tonight or at the concession stands tomorrow! 
GO IRISH BEAT WOLVERINES' 
RACK, TWIDGE. andJAYSTER· 
I'm so glad you could tinally make it out for a game!! I can"t wait to see you and hope we'll have another great weekend here at NO. 
Love, 
Arne 
sdgf 
Valentines 

SMC FRESHMEN!!! Info. Mtg. For Elections Sept. 17 and Sept. 18 7 ·Bpm 304 Haggar MUST ATTEND ONE TO RUN!! 
TOP 1 0 QUOTES ·· 9·16·89 "THE MICHIGAN ROAD TRIP 
FROM HELL" 

10. HEY ARE YOU IN MY SPANISH ClASS? NO? 'WELL YOU CAN COME TO THE PARTY ANYWAYS, IT'S IN 119 H.C. 
9. BANG 3 TIMES IF YOU HAVE TO GO TO .THE BATHROOM 
B. HOLY S··T! DID WE JUST HIT A BUILDING? 
7. I CANT BELIEVE WE'RE IN A RYDER TRUCK' 
6. HEY GUYS I JUST GOT A MARRIAGE PROPOSAL. 

5. WHO'S THAT SLUT ON TOP OFTHER.V.? 
4. CAN WE SHARE A COUCH? 
3. WHAT'S WRONG?·· I'M SICK OF LOOKING AT YOUR F··KING FACES! 2.GO IRISH! BEAT WOLVERINES! 
1. GET THE F··K OUT OF THE TRUCK!·· F··K YOU !I! 
dave glenn does dishes 

TICKETS NEEDED for any home football game. Will pay big$$ Call Tom at x32BO. 
Hey, today·s the day! 
MOLLY JASON is finally 21 !! 
MOM IS GONNA KILL ME!!! 

Unless I get two Michigan tickets. 
I'll take your GA's or StudTix. BIG· 
TIME CASH!!') 
CALL TOM AT 1779 

WHO WANTS TO GO SEE BILLY BRAGG ON 9120 IN CHICAGO? CALL DAVE 2789. 
NEED ALL TICKETS X1167 
ANTOINETTE, 

I love you more and more with each day that passes. And though we cannot be together right now, 1 look forward to the day when we will never be apart. Will you marry me? 
Love. Ken 

I HAVE A MICH. STUD TIC. Call Michelle at x2734 with best offer by Fri. 5pm. 
TH !\NKS TO THE GREAT FRIEND WHO MADE MY TUESDAY "HAPPY AND SMILEY!!!" THANKS FOR THE BALLOON!! 
B.P. 

Irish Accen; wishes to congratualate its newest members: Christopher Coppula, Steve Curtis, Jamie Hill, Erin 
Klimko. and Jason Scarlett. Great job everybody! 
PETER·"Dog/God" STENGER has done it!! He has proved once and for all that his PENCIL really is BIG and YELLOW. Make good use of those secretaries, Pete. Congratulations on passing the CPA. Love, 
M1ssy, Kathy, Katie. and 'Nette(an absentee admirer). 
SMC FRESHMEN Election Information Meetings Next Mon. & Tues. 9/17&9/18 7-Bpm in 304 Haggar To run, you must attend one. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & STANFORD CALL 273·1364 
DESPERATE!!! I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR THE MICH. GAME. CALL HEATHER 271·9260 
. FREE BEER!!! FREE BEER!!' I desperately need AIR FORCE GA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS$$$ CALL DAVE AT 2201 
KAREN MARIE KERNEY WELCOME TO YOUR 1ST ND FOOTBALL GAME GLAD U R HERE LOVEJ & D 
hi ag 
Did you guys score yet? ·B 
BACKGAMMON PARTNER NEEDED 233·3059 JERRY 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE 1!1!! I NEED MICHIGAN GAs FOR MY PARENTS CALL ANN 2B3·4B72 










Viewpoint 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Editor.....•..•.•••.••....•••Kelley Tuthill VIewpoint Editor ...••••....••.. Michelle Oall Sports Editor ..•.••••••...••..••••Greg Guffey Accent Edltor.......•••..•.... Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ......••.•.•...•...•••... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside. Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Ticket distribution creates problems 
Just as football ticket distribution occurs annually, so too does speculation and controversy concerning Saint Mary's students and their place in the distribution process. 
A problems with the current system involves the students who are members of the various clubs gaining access to the stadium without a ticket. Cheerleaders. trainers, students on athletic scholarships, and other stadium employees are all sent football ticket applications though they are not allowed to buy tickets. Presumably the tickets they buy either go unused or illegally sold for pro(it. The football ticket office recognizes this problem but has not effectively solved it. Staff must manually sort through over 10,000 ticket applications looking for the students who are prohibited from purchasing tickets. 
Another problem involves married students. Since no computer system exists to cross-reference students names, students married to other students can purchase four tickets if each spouse presents an application and marriage license. 
Although. there is inefficiency in the distribution process, Saint Mary's is not the problem. Saint Mary's women are an integral part of the community. Having Saint Mary's students wait until the end to buy their tickets would not guarantee better tickets for Notre Dame students since all of Saint Mary's is smaller than a single Notre Dame class. It would, however, formalize the misconception that Saint Mary's women are less important than their Notre Dame counterparts. 
When Notre Dame admitted women eighteen years ago, it did so with the intention of enriching the community, not replacing or isolating Saint Mary's. The ticket office has reserved more tickets than ever for students to prevent a shortage. All students will receive tickets. The community should focus on another national championship rather than on who should be sitting 
where in the student section. 
DOONESBURY 
... ANO IF a.JR BOYS PO GO ON 
TH& OFF£3NSIV~, IT WIU-138 7HROU6H HARSH,UNFOR61V!NG 
OfiS&RT m?.RA!N tl/(& 7HIS 7H4T THeY a/IU.HAV/3 70 AOVAAa t 
~...,._A·~-"'~­
FRCM RaANl),a£{./1//)fR.­~ 5TIINO TH/3 NeeV IN7H~MIP-Fa?SEa.JRflYt 8lJT f/67; THIS c:aUJ 'tW 7lft.l.-US IS !<OlANV IQVtTfifN!;Ii?Al­
f£lJI£1' ARe4 YOll'f<E 
~REFrKT-

Dear Editor: 
I, as a Saint Mary's woman, felt compelled to respond to Nina Delorenzo's letter regarding Saint Mary's student access to football tickets (The Observer, Sept. 10). 
Delorenzo states that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are equal. This is definitely true. But it is only part of the truth. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are, by Father Sorin's and the Holy Cross Sisters' intentions, a community, sharing the same academic and spiritual goals, as well as many traditions. One of these traditions is supporting our football team. 
If we are to truly be a community, we cannot put one school ahead of the other. Saint Mary's women did have to pay roughly $20 more for our tickets. This, to my understanding, is because Notre Dame students have an extra fee included in their tuition for the athletic programs. If this is the case, I can see why the administration would feel obligated to charge Saint Mary's women more. Regardless of the price paid for the tickets. we are still part of the same student body. This ND/SMC student body has worked for years to improve relations within it. We learn from each other and grow through our relationships. And how better to meet each other than in a place where our common spirit and pride in our schools join-the football stands? 
If Delorenzo's wish to separate our student body was accepted, this important aspect of student life would be abolished. That, I believe, would be a tragedy. More importantly, it would go against the wishes and traditions of both Fr. Sorin and the Holy Cross Sisters. 
If Delorenzo wishes to have the administration "review the ticket distribution process and its obvious flaw," she should concentrate on the system's real problem. It is terribly inefficient. Ropes should be used to block out lines for the students to follow. The current practice of allowing a mob to converge on one open door is ridiculous. Crowd control devices do work. Finally, many headaches would be relieved if more than four windows were 
open. 

Julie A. Marsh McCandless Hall 
Sept. 12. 1990 
Exclusion of Saint Mary's students is an example of hypocritical attitude 
Dear Editor: 
I became upset after reading the letter written by Nina Delorenzo regarding Saint Mary's students purchasing Notre Dame football tickets (The Observer, September 4). She is hypocritical in stating that these two schools are equal and yet feels that stu­dents of Saint Mary's should not be able to purchase football tickets at the same time as Notre Dame students. 
This is not an "unfair pro­cess." Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students work together in all aspects of life here. Why should we be "pushed aside" from the excitement of football season simply because we are not sharing the same campus? 
DeLorenzo also stated that we add to the competition for seats. This I have found to be untrue. In the past two years that I have been here to pur­chase tickets, it has been known that the ticket distribu­tors pass out the tickets ran­domly. Camping out does not even ensure great seats (with the exception of seniors). So, ultimately, this "competition" doesn't exist. 
In recent years, students and faculty have been trying to im­prove ND/SMC relations to make these two schools more unified. It is people like Delorenzo who hinder this process and create more prob­lems than needed. 
Lisa Alexander LeMans Hall Sept. 14, 1990 
Correction 

The author of the Campus Ministry column which appeared in Tuesday's Observer was Rev. Stephen Newton, not Rev. Richard Warner, as the article stated. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO, P&TER, I'M  C'MON,  
AFRAIVI CAN'T  JU5TTHC  NO, R£AUY,  I  '3l3e.  
6/V~YWTHAT  R£6/0N...  I:M /.05T.  tveu., (3()()[?  
INFORMATION.  IJJCI<, ROIANIJ!  
-~  

'In our play we reveal what kind of people we are.' 
Ovid 

I t 
I 
l 
I 
:. 
-1 
I 
'I 
'i 
II 
\! 
' 
:1 
I 
_( 
,,' 
d I 
SEPTEMBER 14-16 
weekend calendar 

MUSIC 
Kroaenroe, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45 p.m. 
The Balance, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
Phil Keaggy with Rick Elias, O'laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
EVENTS Pep rally picnic, Stepan Field,4:30-6:30 p.m. 
African food, music, and dance, Stepan Center, 8 p.m., Tickets $2. 
ART Opening Reception, exhibits of photographs by Dan Meyers and paintings by Jeremy Turner, Moreau Hall Art Gallery. Saint Mary's College, 7-9 p.m. 
OFF CAMPUS Singles Night, University Park Mall, 7-11 p.m. 
sa 
y 
MUSIC 
Krosenroe, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:45 p.m. The Slugs, outside Stepan Center, 4-6 p.m. 
s 
y 
Frederick Weldy, concert pianist, Moreau Little Theater, Saint Mary's College, 2 p.m. Ttekets: $3 students, $7 adults, $5 Senior Citizens. Pops at the Cove, South Bend Symphony Orchestra, 
Coveleski Stadium, 7:30p.m. 

FRIDAY ''The War of the Roses," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10 p.m. "Drugstore CoWboy," Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"My Blue Heaven," 1, 3, 5, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. 
''Taking Care of Business," 1, 3:10, 5:20, 7:30 & 9:40 p.m. "Duck Tales," 1 & 3 p.m. "Delta Force II," 5, 7:15 & 9:25p.m. 
"Fiatllners," 1 :20, 4:1 0, 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Ghost," 1:30,4:15,7:20 & 9:50p.m. ''The Lemon Sisters," 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40 & 9:45p.m. 

MICHELLE BERNINGER accent writer 
A 
nyone can cook. 
The essential 
ingredients 

include: persis­
tence, desire to learn, practice, patient {and 
not too picky ) eaters, and a dash of creativity. It's also 

easier when starvation is your 
only other option. 

Yet cooking, especially with some friends, can be enjoyable-even enough to make you try again. The following are some rather quick and simple recipes which might make tasty additions to any tailgate party. Now, you can have even more fun before the games! 
Traditional Chex Party Mix 
This is the throw-in-every­thing-you-can-find version. The more the merrier. 

1/4 cup {1/2 stick) margarine or butter 
1 1/4 tsp. seasoned salt 

4 1/2 tsp. Worchestershire sauce 2 2/3 cups Corn Chex brand cereal 2 2/3 cups Rice Chex brand cereal 2 2/3 cups Oat Chex brand ce­real 
1 cup salted mixed nuts 
1 cup pretzel sticks 

Preheat oven to 250 degrees. In an open roasting pan. melt margarine in oven. Stir in sea­soned salt -and Worchestershire sauce. Gradually add cereals, nuts, and pretzels, stirring until 
all pieces are evenly coated. 
Bake one hour stirring every 15 minutes. Spread on ab­sorbent paper to cool. Store in airtight container. 
Some additional possibilities {one cup of each): 
M&Ms {peanut or plain) 
Nabisco Nips 
Chocolate or peanut butter chips Cheese Ritz Bits 
Caramel Chocolate Chip Brownies These take a little more work, but the result is definitely worth the effort. 14 oz. light caramels (about 
40) 

1/3 cup evaporated milk 
1 cup chocolate cake mix 
3/4 cup melted butter 
1/3 cup evaporated milk 
1 cup chopped nuts 
1 bag chocolate chips 
On a double boiler, stir 
caramels and 1/3 cup evapo­
rated milk until melted. Mix 
cake mix, butter, and 1/3 cup 
evaporated milk. Add nuts and 
stir until just mixed. Spread 
half of this mixture into greased 
and floured 13x9 inch pan. 
Bake at 350 degrees for six 
minutes. 

Sprinkle chocolate chips over 
baked batter, and then pour on 
caramel mixture. Crumble re­
maining batter on top_ Bake an 
additional 15-18 minutes at 350 
degrees. Refrigeratl~ at least 30 
minutes before cutting. 
Bufl"alo Wings This is my roommate's mom's best recipe-spicy and 
delicious. 

6 to 7 lbs. chicken wings 
4 tbsp. butter 
1 small bottle hot sauce 
1 tbsp. white vinegar 
Bleu cheese dressing 
Cut chicken wings in half 
lengthwise. Remove tip of wing and discard. Place in baking pan and bake at 375 degrees for about 45 minutes_ Turn over once for even browning. Drain any fat. 
Combine buttPr. hot sauce, and vinegar, and blend. Pour over wings and continue baking for an additional 45 minutes until brown. Baste often. Serve with bleu cheese dressing. 
Vegetable Pizza It's low calorie, but just as good. 
Assorted choppPd vegetables (earrots, broccoli, radishes, and cauliflower work 
well) 

Cream cheese !soften later) 
Pillsbury crescent roll dough 
Spread out dough on flat 
baking sheet, pinching pieces 
together to make a flat crust. 
Bake as directed and then cool. 
Mix chopped vegetables with cream cheese. Make sure cream cheese holds vegetables together. Spread mixture on 
crescent crusts and ctiill for 30­60 minutes. Cut in pieces and serve cold. 
Dips to liven up your chips and raw vegetables: 
Guacamole Dip 
2 ripe avocados 
Juice of 1 lemon 
Ryder truck: No, it's not a New Kids' concert, but merely thousands of screaming souls clamoring for beer at an under­graduate tailgater. Hint: Always ask a girl to get you fermented hops, as those Meister Brau­mongers don't take kindly to other males swiping their luke-warm elixir. 
Alumr Winnebc: Alumni c 
down kie 
the wet t 
entertair
NoTP.£0AM~ "Look tht many liq 
ated oel1
VlCfoRY BAR 
page 13 


>'ings 
mce .r g 1 half ip of wing baking legrees 
Turn 1wning. 
sauce, :1. Pour ue baking tinutes .en. Serve >ing. 
ust as 
~getables 
tshes, and 
n later) 
'"dough 1 flat :pieces 
t crust. .hen cool. )Jes with 1ure 
~getables 
ture on till for 30­ces and 
·chips 
1/2 tsp. Worchestershire sauce 
2 tbsp. mayonnaise 
1 tbsp. taco seasoning 
1/8 tsp. garlic powder 
Salt and pepper 
4 cherry tomatoes, chopped 
Peel and mash avocado. 
Squeeze lemon juice over top. 
Add remaining ingredients. 
Blend well by hand. Serve im­
mediately. To keep from turn­
ing brown, place seed from av­
ocado in dip. 
Vegetable Dip 
1 1/2 cups sour cream 
12 cup mayonnaise 
2 tbsp. Dijon mustard 
1 tsp. dry dill 
1/4 cup scallions (thinly sliced 
green onions) 
2 tsp. lemon juice 
1/2 tsp. salt 
1/4 tsp. pepper 
Mix all ingredients together 
and serve. 
Jello Cubes 
These would add a lot more 
than flavor to your tailgater. 
They make for great tossing 
and throwing fun. You can 
have different teams with dif­
ferent colors--whoever has the 
most jello stuck to them at the 
end loses. Just follow the di­
rections on the jello box using 
water (or an ingredient of your 
choice), and add Knox Box ge­
latin accordingly. Cut into 
cubes after chilling. 
All of these recipes will pro­vide a tasty complement to the great amount of libations con­sumed during your hours of tailgating. Hope you enjoy it. 


Alumni: Surely no finer use for Winnebagos was intended. Alumni of all girths hardily scarf down kielbasa while blitz-krieging the wet bar in front of mammoth entertainment systems. Just yell "Look there's Lou!" and see how many liquor bottles can be liber­ated oehind turned heads. 
Parking: Those 
who evade the cto<:>min chaos (known locally as beloved Debartolo Quad) soon encounter ever-helpfullaw en­forcement officers. These guardians of the eternal flame of justice cheerfully direct fans to secret, yet convenient parking spots such as Kokomo, 
...._....,._ _.....~Mishawaka, or Quebec. 
Band: Of course that's your fa· ther who leaps in front of the Notre Dame Marching Band with handy camcorder buzzing furiously. Merely claim no relation to the madman and taunt the musicians with witty tales of debauchery. 
Michigan fans: Although tempted to hurl implements of destruction at visiting marauders, stay your hand; mere ridicule pales before the mighty hand of God, which will surely smite all enemy teams into dust. Instead, lend the fools a comforting shoulder, as there will be much wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
: 0 i'. 0 
tl. 0 • , 0 • 0 ... -.1'' 

Graphic by Michael F. Muldoon 
Text by Bill Rosemann 
I I 
...J 

page 14 The Observer Friday, September 14. 1990 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! I FOR SALE: 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL 708-328-1523. 
*o/o*0k*%*o/o*o/o*%*o/o*o/o*%*o/o*% Need GA's and stud tix for NO This is an easy one. I need 
NEED 1 MICH. TICKET, ANY
Class CALL ME BEFORE YOU SELL vrs Stanford PLEASE call lisa PURDUE TICKETS! Call Carrie atKIND. DESPERATE! HELP! 
YOUR MIAMI GA'S X4049.
#4032

NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, at 5012
I WILL BEAT ANY PRICE!!
continued from page 16 

STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752­
BILL X1562 FOR SALE: 
5314.

Have 4 MICH TIX and Need MIAMI *o/o*%*%*%*o/o*%*o/o*o/o*%*o/o*% Student tickets for Stanford NEED MIAMI TIX? We have 2 Purdue and Air Force. 
TIX -Wanna trade? NEED: 2 PURDUE GA'S AND 1 ' Call Greg Bohdan (714)727-AIR FORCE STUDENT. Call x4112 Call Amy at x4624 to make an 1911 4 MIAMI GA's are what I need. offer. So give them to me, please. Pete WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. 
PLEASE CALL TRISH x3860 I STILL NEED 1 MICH TIX. STACY 
If you don't sell me your MICH. x1745 TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. 271-1893. HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIX stud. ticket, I hope you drink so I HAVE TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'S!!! CALL287-6947. much on Saturday that you vomit $NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S$ WANTED: 2 tickets to the Notre I NEED 1 MICH. STUD AND TWO I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. 
and pass out before game time!!! $$$$$$ NO OBJECT$ Dame-Miami game. Call Mark at 1-PURDUE G.A. 'S. CALL OR LEAVE CALL BILLY -x1817. HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIX Pete x1745 CALL DAN 3281 800-325-5275 or leave message. MESSAGE FOR CHRISTINA AT CALL287-6947. 
273-9438!! HAVE 2 MICHIGAN STUD TIX CALL287-6947. 

I NEED 3 AF GA's. CALL PETE 
ATX2340. 
WE HAVE 4 MICH. GA'S 
JOHN OR DAVE X3024 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD ORPSUGA'S 
DAVEX3024 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX 
X3566 

MICHIGAN student tix and GAs needed. Please call Darrell at 283­3302. 
$$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ $$$$ #2894 $$$$ 
i need 2-4 miami tix and 1 purdue tix call pat x3800 

WANTED: Michigan Student Tix and 2 Michigan GA's. Please call x1840. 
RICH ALUMNI ACCOUNTANTS NEED 2 MICH TIX. WILL BUY SEPARATELY. PLEASE CALL 233-7673. 
I need two GA's for this weekend -­I'm desperate! Call Paige x2980 
Need Michigan G.A. Tix. Pay big 
bucks! Call Joe@ 287-4561. 

New York Attorney rieeds Stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$ Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or Nancy at 277-2942. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL BRIAN AT X1426 
Wonted-

Notre Dome-Mioni footboH ticke 

W'~l pay lop s Call I-100-!16-0576 
Hey-We need 3 Miami GA's Call Diana 234-4974 or David x1244 
HAVE 2 AF Ga (50 yd 14 row!) Trade for 2 MIAMI Ga + $$ (or just$$) Call Steve at 1603. Mom will kill to see Miami! Pleease HELP ME! 
NEED: 3 MIAMI GA'S HAVE: 2 PENN ST GA'S, 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-ALSO HAVE FREE ROUND-TRIP AIRFARE TO TRADE CALL X2246-LEAVE MESSAGE 
HELP!! Need MICH stud TIX!I $$!call Tanja x1511 
Got Miami and other stud tix KEVEN 1588 

HELP!!!! DESPERATE STUDENT NEEDS 1 MICH. STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME 
CALL SHAUN 273-9241 
$$$$$$$~$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
"·"r•!ed I IIIIAII TICKErs 
SludM!Ia Of Gent.ral AdrTilllon In any se.;tlon Call Chudl collect 
(716) 265-0490 Bam-~::ll pm 
•nd anytime Sat. & Sun. 

Parents coming for NO-Air Force 
C'ESTBON. 
Game. Need to buy general admission tickets. Call Mary lou or Ray 234-3873. Would like to
Russell Athletic Cardigans alwd_ys translate into agreat fashion statement. And if you identify this 
buy them now!! I 

TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR
famous f~ce and the two others from our newspaper campaign, that could -ev-..cn 
2 PRDU GA'S "TIM"1407 

translate mto a$1,000 scholarship for next semester from Russell Athletic.* 42 

.._............... ............. 
NEED GA'S -3 MICH. 1 AF, 3
Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry forms. 

V"'ll..,..............,..~•u • -:: • n>; ...... , ....__ MIAMI "DAVE@ 1407 
~""''f~··OH ....
...... ............. _; ...
~ ~

*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $/000 credit on your tuition. 
see CLASS I page 1 0 
Friday, September 14, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Modern-day Christian flovver child reflects on life 
At two a.m., I was walking 
the wind. The answer is blowing conscientiously forgive the cocker spaniel. Darby O'Gill in the wind. ourselves, unless we have first on the North Quad, when a jog­Father Robert Griffin Could Matthew be called a asked for. and received, for­ger, shirtless, his body wt>t with flower child of the 1990s? If so, 
giveness? sweat, came up from behind. Letters to a Lonely God he's a Christian flower child. I hope Matthew forgives me 
"What's happening?" I said, "I could jog for hours." he for publishing our private con­uncPrtain who this great hulk told me, "because as I jog. I versation. Why should I let the of a lad was. I finally recog­happy all his life being creativP act of faith. I said: "If you can pray." To help him pray better, best preaching I have heard nized him as Matthew. a recent and clever. working at thP prove to me you have the power I offered him an insight that lately go down the drain like 
N.D. grad now working in great variety of projects he to raise Lazarus from the dead, was once offered me. "Because the flower that blushes unseen South Bend. whom I used to takes on. He makes his con­I'll agree that the example of God is invisible to us, we pray and wastes its sweetness on the know when he wasn't so struction work sound poetic Jesus proves that Matthew does in order to make ourselves visi­desert air? rugged. and romantic, as well as part not need graduate degrees to ble to Him. When we pray, we 
When I lived in PW, Mathew of the American way. Wasn't prove he's a prophet." I was should be mindful of God being How can you tell a man, 
used to drop in to visit me as there more of Willy Loman in afraid I'd disappointed him by mindful of us." happy with what he's doing, Nicodemus visited Jesus at the front stoop he added onto a remark that showed how The miracle of the loaves and "Don't waste your time on the night. In those conversations his house than there was in all banal I am. Instead, he said fishes, Matthew has decided, is small stuff." Should I have with the Master. I presume that the sales he ever made? something touchingly humble, a miracle in so far as it shows said,"Matthew, had we but Nicodemus was the avid listener I said . "Are your parents to show how unworthy he is, in people being generous. since, in world enough, and time, this to whom truth was taught. endlessly supportive of you in his own judgement, to call him­the presence of Jesus, each of hobby-lobby, lad, were no 
Last night, when Matthew all your endeavors?" self a child of God. them unselfishly shared the crime..." joined me in following Darby "Not endlessly supportive," he Recalling our conversation in meal he was keeping hidden in From his side of the genera­O'Gill. barking at shadows, on a answered, "but we're very good the afterglow of hindsight, I his pocket. tion gap, would he be able to walk. he was the principal friends. They respect me for wondered if Matthew and I "That miracle means more appreciate the words of talker. and I was the avid not cleaning out their refriger­were standing on different than that," I protested; but for Kazantzakis. approaching listener; sometimes I inter­ator more than once every two sides of the generation gap, of­Matthew, the miracle of sharing death:, "I feel like doing what rupted him with questions. then weeks to keep myself from fering each other membership is divine enough. Then he Bergson says-going to the listened some more. starving to death." in the dead poets' society. I was explained the meaning of Jesus street corner and holding out 
I wasn't a good listener. I encouraged him to start telling him, "Carpe diem!" and dying on the Cross. "He showed my hand to start begging from Older people, asking questions, making plans about going back "Gather ye rosebuds while ye us forgiveness. The world is so the passer-by: 'Alms, brothers. forget to listen because their to school. "You have an active may /Old Time is still a-flying." bad off because people are un­A quarter of an hour from each minds are on other questions mind," I said. "As a writer, He was telling me that the mass willing to forgive one another." of you.' Oh, for a little time, they want to remember to ask. thinker, guru, or mystic, you'd of men lead lives of quiet des­"Let the sunshine in," we used just enough to let me finish my Once they have heard the an­probably enjoy being a prophet; peration, and that he wanted to hear in the cast recording of work." swers. they want to make if so. you need professional ac­"to live deep and suck out all "Hair." "To see Thee more comments to show how wise creditation. The world will not the marrow of life ... to drive life clearly.. to love Thee more Before sayin~ good night to they are. willingly listen to you unless into a corner... " dearly, day by day," was one of Matthew, I said, "The Synoptic 
In the construction company you have the education that He reminded me of a flower the songs from "Godspell" Gospels all mention the love he has started, Matthew is proves you have the right to child out of the 1960s. None of endlessly played at Mass. Jesus showed the children and working as a jack-of -all­call yourself a specialist." the flower children discerned "Jesus Christ Superstar" is the the praise He gave them. Only trades. turning unused space "The greatest prophet of shades of the prison house be­golden oldie that Matthew Matthew tells us that the that people have in their homes them all was a carpenter," he ginning to close on the growing sometimes uses as a guardian angels of the children into things of beauty that replied with a hoot of laughter. boys and girls. Their message replacement for Mass. see the face of the Father in promise to be a joy forever. His Listening to him talk about was. "Make love, not war," and In the generation when these heaven." I hoped he understood friends tell him, "That's all Jesus in conflict with the "Give peace a chance." The age three Broadway musicals were that instead of giving him a right for now, but what will you professionals of the establish­of Aquarius turned out to be competing for our attention, hug, I was giving him a left­do later?" ment in His, day I could see brief. In the words of their who in the world ever figured handed compliment by praising 
Even as a bachelor of arts that Matthew is a Christian be­greatest protest song: "Where out that before peace can the insight of his patron saint. who majored in philosophy, liever. have all the flowers gone?" The begin, there must first be Who wants to hug a jogger on Matthew feels he could stay When he finished making his answer, my friend, is blowing in forgiveness? How can we whom the sweat is drying? 
·­

ENGINEERS 
Q: DO YOU KNOW WHERE THE ENGINEERING STUDENT CENTER IS LOCATED? 
A: 217 CUSHING HALL 

TO MAKE YOUR LIFE AS AN ENGINEER MORE COMPLETE -WE OFFER: 
• LECTURE NOTES/PROBLEM SETS FROM VARIOUS 
ENGINEERING COURSES ·RELAXED, AIR-CONDITIONED ATMOSPHERE 
• 
POPULAR MAGAZINES 

• 
COFFEE FOR THOSE KnLER MORNING CLASSES · DOUGHNUTS/MUFFINS FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS 


\ 

· MEETING ROOM FOR ENGINEERING SOCIETIES 
\ 

COME JOIN US IN OUR WELCOMING BREAKFAST! Monday, September 17 8:00-10:00 am 
** REMINDER -INDUSTRY DAY IS AlMOST HERE ** SEPTEMBER 19 BANQUET REGISTRATION DEADLINE TODAY 
Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL 

11::11 

page 16 The Observer Friday, September 14, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 

NEED MICH STUD TIX I NEED ONE MICHIGAN TICKET
I NOTICES FOR RENT You can save a marriage, sell me HELP!!!! No, I don't need Miami your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. tickets ..... ! really, really need 
ANY#CALLMIKE1625 CALL X 2871 Air Force tickets and I'm dead TYPING AVAilABLE if I don't get 'em! Please call 
287-4082 FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) HELP!! '90 NO GRAD NEEDS Lynne@ X2687.
PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICHIGAN STUD TIX! PLEASE FOR SALE: 4 MICH STUD TIX

Need infant daycare by licensed MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS CALL MATT X 2984 CALL SANDY X4121! CALL 234-2728 A CORPORATE PROBLEM­
facility? Call Renee Graf at 256-272-0615. 7311. 

I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ NEED 8 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. 
Need Michigan Student Tickets. NEED 6 GA'S. CALL MIKE ASAP 
WILL PAY$. 1-262-4990. Call Nader at 273-1849 AT CASTLE POINT. 273-9417BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I need 2 GA's for EVERY home 
219-291-7153. game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! GRAD STUDENTS!! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ NEED TWO TICKETS!!! WILL 
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN TIX I NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT 
PAY$$$!!!-NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR 2 MIAMI. CALL (312) 975-TICKET!!!! PLEASE CALL KATE FOR AIR FORCE OR PENN AN ATTRACTIVE STUDIO IN 
GRAD CLUB MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 2299 AFTER 6:00 P.M. 

ATX4045. STATE. CALL SHANA 2735!!! 
255 PLUS DEPOSIT 2888595 NEED 1 MICH. Tix FRI. SEPT. 14 AARON x2384 x2352 DEATH will come my way if I don't $$ I NEED TICKETS $$ PLEASE SELL ME YOUR TIX:
4:30-7:00 PM FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Need five GA's for Michigan game. get 2 PURDUE GA's! Help me. Call 
Up to 4 Airforce G.A.s MICHGA Steve X2478 FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. 
and 2 Stanford Studs. PURDUE STUD
WILSON-COMMONS NON-SMOKER Need five GA's & STUD. for I need 1 Stanford G.A or Student
Call Christine @ 2682 MIAMI GA & STUD273-9406 OR 283-2805 PENN ST. STUD
GRAD STUDENTS!! Michigan game. Call Paul x1755. ticket! CALL Mike-273-9471 CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Grr 
HELP ME PLEASE!! CALL KEVIN @ 233-8959 WE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OF·sreeps 6, Ktch. 2 Btrm, etc." 
I desperatly need 2 GA's for the 
NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3 
1 Bkx::k o.c. Michigan game. Will pay just about 
TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ USC TIX! Call ALYSSA or NANCYUsed Textbooks! 
CALL DENNIS x2097 anything!! 
x3822

25% OFF LIST PRICE CALL BARB X4419 PLEASE call soon! Ask for Nancy $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Pandora's Books 
at #284-5038 

corner of NO ave. and Howard 
Need 1 student Penn State ticket WANTED: 
NEED 2 MICH. TIX!
233-2342 for a future Domer. Please call Pat ANY GAMES TIX GA'S 
PLEASE. I really, really need G.A'S OR STUD.
at 273-9367. OR STUDS. 
PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of CALL x3771 or x3791 
CALL AARON #1581 COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: MONEY. Call Sean x1723 Typing $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
19" COLOR TV, TWO lluv my girl...and She'd luv to SEMESTERS $110, ONE see MIAMI! PleeeasePickup & Delivery 
277-7406 

SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO FOR SALE: 2 MICHIGAN I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
Need 1 Michigan GA sell me your MIAMI STUD!! SEMESTERS $110, ONE call Pat 289-5542 Call1603.
Senior stud. tixs. Will Parents will take back tuition PROFESSIONAL WORD 
SEMESTER $80. accept best offer. $$$ if I don't come through!!!!!!!!
PROCESSING BY THE HOME 

Call Mike X3506 5959. 
OFFICE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-BIG DOLLARS! Dave x1219 
Resumes. reports, manuscripts, NEED STUDENT TIX Desperately need 1 student 
dissertations, theses, etc. Familiar All HOME GAMES I need your MICH tix 
PLANE TIX CHI to LAX And Tp HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay ticket for Air Force game!!!! 
with various style manuals, as well CALL 1597 puh-LEEZE! x4272 
$$$$$$$$!Call Matt X1055 
Lv Oct20 Ret0ct28 ONLY $200 Please call ALICIA at x3465!!!
as the N.D. "Guide". Reliable, 

accurate, efficient. PicklJI) and obo Call Nicole x2853 ROYAL ORDER: HELP!_ I DESPERATEL Y NEED delivery available. Call 234-3891. Hear ye! Hear ye! 
SOLO COTTAGE\MUST SELL The Queen o' the Irish THIS IS A CATHOLIC WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT MICH. TIX! Stu or GA. -Tom FAST! PICNIC TABLE $35, 8' Requires MICHIGAN tix UNIVERSITY-ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 #3502. 
PICNIC TABLE $40, GREAT 7' For Her Royal Court HAVE MERCY!!! POOL TABLE with ACCESSORIES ME TOO! NEED MICH TIX' STUD 
I LOST/FOUND I 

NEED 2 miami GAs! 284-4386 All Willing to Answer GREAT DEAL I 
$500, WHITE SCULPTURED RUG & GA --TIM 271-8795 $50, PORTABLE DISHWASHER 
Lost-Detex somewhere on Mod Her Highness' Plea 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­Quad (pos. by Grace). If found, Please Contact Treven X4503 
$150, BIG MICROWAVE $150, NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL other offers welcome NEED MIAMI TIX.
please call X4905. ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs CALL CATHY 233-6586. WILLING TO PAY A LOT 
HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE x2630 CALL BETH 233-9226 
CALL SHERI AT X2773 I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FORLOST BLUE NOTRE DAME 
BED: QUEEN/LIKE NEW 2870929 ALL I NEED IS A GOOD MAN AND PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN.
FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG NEED MICH GA'S 

NEEDTIX ••$$Two GA's Wanted..$$ 1 MICHIGAN TICKETI PLEASE TONY X1590 MICH. MIAMI & ALL others AT MISHIANA REGIONAL 
WILLPAYTOP $ AIRPORT--CONTAINED 

CALL PAT 234-8608 CALL LISA AT 4929
ANY HOME GAME Chris 4013 MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY, Have stud tix on 35 ydline for trade and/or$$, even Miami!! ALL I NEED IS A GOOD MAN AND WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM 4 Michigan Tix Needed. Contact AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. 
PLEASE CALL TONY AT 

Call Lyn at 284-5008 NOW. ONE MICHIGAN STUDENT NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. Pat x1787 or Hugh 233-6740. 
X1970. 

TICKET! CALL LISA 4929 WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT lAST CHANCE!! Miami Ticket (303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. 2 M1ch studs or GA's needed FOUND: KEYS IN FlANNER. SET 
Available MICHIGAN TIX: need 1 student; 
MICHIGAN call Jim 277-6405 40ydlineGA call Bill x3300 WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE,CONTAINS 3 KEYS. CALL RICH x1412 
239-5370 & IDENTIFY KEYCHAIN. 

make offer, Dave x1624 STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR NEED 1 OR 2 STUD TIX TO PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 
NEED 4 MICH. GA'S, 4 STUD. MIAMI X1581-TOM MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN 
BILL X4274 3982.
OBSERVER OFFICE. KEY RING 

I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S HOTEL ROOM FOR MICHIGANHAS A MITSUBISHI KEY ON IT FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE WEEKEND. CALL ERIK-X2088PLUS SEVERAL OTHERS. COME 
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-I can afford to pay $80 for a pair ofUP TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE Please! Please! Please! 
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS
IF THEY'RE YOURS. 1364 GA's to the ND-Mich. game. 272­
I need one Mich. ticket of WILL TRADE 2 MICH GA's GA's or STUDS 9602 after 7:00any sort! Lisa x3212 
(together) for 2 PENN ST GA's CALL DAN@ X1795 (together) call Frank X2262
COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE CALL 273-1364 I have ONE MIAMI TICKET! 
WANTED 

need 2 Ml GA's Rick C. x 1750 DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE 
Need it? Call 4624. WANTED-TIX 4 SALE MICH. STUD GA'S FOR POOR RElATIVES. 
Need 2 tickets (any kind) for
MIA-N.D. GAME IBM compatible 286 portable BESTOFFER X1167 CALL KEVIN X1589 Need MICH Ga's or Stud tic's 
Michigan game

CALL 800-323-7687 computer, 1.2 floppy, 40 meg HO, Call Susan at 258-0635
call Ry X1048 WANTED: Penn State Stud Tix NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !!!!!! call ANNE at x1704 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 1 meg RAM. Lotus 2.1 & Q & A 

included. 287-0534. WANTED WANTED PLEASE CALL KRISTIN ATWANTED: 
HOUSESITTERICOMPANION Michigan and Miami 
Need Miami GA's 

284-4350 $$$$$$$ no object
FOR 15-YR-OLO MALE OCT. 11-13" DIGITAL MITSUBISHI CLR TV student tickets. 
14. KNOLLWOOD AREA. CALL $125.00 SHARP RECPTN. Will Trade: Call Greg at x1517 
X1970 I am looking to trade
277-8654 AFTER 6 PM. ASK FOR Call Mark 232-4589 MICHIGAN GA's (pairs) for WANTED WANTED 
4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If
··""-" JOHN OR ROSEMARY. MIAMI GA's......also selling interested, call 
1 MICH.. AF., MIA., STNFO, STUD I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS
MICHIGAN GA's. 

Hugh at 233-6740. 
Want to hire art student TIC. 4 SALE. BEST OFFER CALL CALL KEVIN NIGHTS ONLY 
call PAT or BRIAN at #1770. to paint leprechaun on rec 288-2745 (AFTER 7 PM) 271-9312 room wall 273-9158 DESPERATE!!!!!!!
FOR SALE Miami lix MICHIGANGA NEED 
I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! WANTED: TICKETS Phone: x1755 If interested, call 4500. 
I need 10, that's right 10 2 AIR FORCE STUDS OR GA'S DON'T FULLFILL MY WILDEST Miami tix (student or GA's)
Need 2 Air Force GA's call HAVE TWO STUD. MICH. TIX. 
DREAMS Every ticket helps. Family coming RYAN@ 2478
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 NEED TO TRADE FOR TWO 
DON'T SELL ME YOUR MIAMI to see game.
CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717-G.A.'S OR SELL FOR $$CASH$$. TICKER X 1167 Call Bryan at 2266 
297-2192. Help me out. I need Michigan CALL KEVIN X3347 WANTED:
tix: 2 GAs and 5 St. tix. Call Need $$$?Sell Faris@ x3082. NEEDED: TWO MICHIGAN GA'S your ga's to all plus $Cash$ for TWO MIAMI GA'S NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? 
2 PURDUE GA'S 
home games. 
STEPH @4322

Call tom x1597. NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN!!! NEEDED: TWO MICH STUD and ME TOO NEED MONEY ?? CALL CHRIS X1067 TWO AIR FORCE GA'S. I NEED MICH GA'S PLEASE
Downtown Book Co. Needs $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL TOM X3697 4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami CALL PAT AT #1010 THANKS
Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 fans that need humbling. Many Opportunities. Call Mr. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$ I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and ' NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI OR 2
Turner 5-7 pm M-F 288-1002 #3501 CALL NICOLE 234-8882 stud tix for any game. Todd x1747 272-~954 Amy GA'S FOR AIRFORCE-X2152: ML
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Students, need extra spending WE NEED A MICHIGAN GA!I!!!!!I 
money???? MACRI'S DELl IS I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S I have 2 stud tix for all NO home NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT 
NOW HIRING FULL AND PART GAMES.272-6306 DON'T BE A --CALL MIKE Please call 273-9624 games 271-0999 Best Offer TIME COOKS AND EVENING AT2344 
TIX JOE#1352 

BUSSERS. Good employee NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ benefits. flexible schedules. and a AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT BIG$$ OR ROUND TRIP great place to work. Apply within: X2088 NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL X4285.
Located in University Center on WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL I need 1 Purdue student SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE Grape Road. 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860 FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1­AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT PLEASE HELP a friend see 1st 800-875-4525. Fraternities. sororities. campus X2088 NO game Scott x3314 
NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, organizations, highly motivated NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET. CALL NEED ALL THE STANFORD TIX I PURDUE, STANFORD, MIAMI, individuals-Travel free plus earn TARA X1267. CAN GET. GA's. CALL AND PENN STATE. CALL JULIA up to $3000+ selling SPRING PLEASE HELP ME !!1!1 DENNIS X2384 
X3505 
BREAK trips to:Cancun-South Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
NEED AL~ TIX!!! #1588 Kevin 

Padre Island-Orlando/Daytona I'll do anything for 2 Michigan GA's DESPERATELY need PURDUE Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket Beach: 1-800-258-9191. Please sell me your tickets!!!! or Mich. Air For Miami student tix. GAs!!! Paul x1626 Call Chris X2274 
Brian x-1306 UNIQUE POSITION-GRAPHIC Call Cathy at 273-9624. NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET !!! I would like student tickets THE DEAL OF THE CENTURY ARTIST AND RECEPTIONIST. NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS!I CALL JOE X2053 for all home games, esp. for WILL TRADE 2 GA TICKETS TO MUST HAVE MAC COMPUTER TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's CALL KARIN x1992 Penn St.!!!! Call Jeff x1747 SEE UNDEFEATED MICHIGAN . KNOWLEDGE. QUARK, FOR 2 GA'S TO SEE THE MICROSOFT, PLUS OTHER. Call Beth at 288-0597 or NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm HELPLESS HURRICANES. IF PART TIME, HOURS FLEXIBLE. Art at 277-9203 CALL KARIN x1992 MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR little, so DON'T HURT MEl!! And INTERESTED PLEASE CALL CALL 273-2090. 9-5. CLOSE TO $$$$$$$$ GA. WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL SAM give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for THE BULL AT 287-9670 NOTRE DAME. NEED ONE MICHIGAN x3843 AT (201)334-3804. Stanford and Purdue. x2632 
__$_~-~-CLASS I page 14 
' I 
Friday, September 14, 1990 
The Observer page 17 COLLEGE FOOTBALL BASEBALL 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
Triple A Alliance Playoffs AMERICAN LEAGUEWake Forest (1-1) at North Carolina St. (1-1) American Association 
East Division Thursday's college football scores: w L Pd GB LIO Streak
ConnectiCUI (0-1) at North Carolina (1-1) (Best-of-5) 

Texas-EI Paso (1-1) at Tennessee (2-0-1) Wednesday, Sept. 5 Southern Meth. (1-0) at Tulane (1-1) Omaha 1 , Nashville 0 
Boston 80 64 .556 4-6 LoS! I 
MIDWEST Toronto 76 68 .528 4 6-4 Lost2 MIDWEST 
Navy (1-0) at Virginia (2-0) Thursday, Sept. 6

Wis.-Stout 20, Wis.-River Falls 19 Detroit 69 76 .476 II 112 z-4-6 Lost2
Nashville 5, Omaha 3 
SOUTHWEST Milwaukee 68 75 .476 II 112 5-5 LoS! I
Cantral Michigan (1-1) at Akron (2-0) Friday, Sept. 7 Ohio U. (0-1) at Eastern Michigan (1-1) Omaha 8, Nashville 7, 20 innings
Houston 51, Texas Tech 35 Baltimore 65 77 458 14 5-5 Won2 Colorado (1-0-1) at Illinois (0-1) Saturday, Sept. 8
FAR WEST Cleveland 65 79 .451 15 z-6-4 Won2 Pac. Lutheran 42, Pugel Sound 10 New York 59 84 .413 20 112 3-7 Won!
Cincinnati (0-2) at Iowa (0-0) Nashville 5, Omaha 4 New Mexico St. (0-2) at Kansas St. (1-0) Sunday, Sept. 9 Iowa St. (1-0) at MinnesO(a (0-1) Omaha 8, Nashville 7 West Division Utah St. (1-1) at Missouri (0-1) Omaha wins series 3-2 w L Pd GB L10 
Streak Duke (0-1) at Northwestern (0-0) Oakland 91 51 .641 z-9-1 Won2 Michigan (0-0) at Notre Dame (0-0) International League Chicago 81 62 .566 10 112 z-4-6 Won! Washington (1-0) at Purdue (0-0) (Best-of-5) Texas 75 68 .524 16 112 z-8-2 Won! Ball St. (1-0) at Wisconsin (0-1) Tuesday, Sept. 4 California 72 71 .503 19 112 z-6-4 Won3 This week's college football schedule: SOUTHWEST Rochester 4, Columbus 2 Seattle 70 73 .490 21 112 5-5 LoS12 Tulsa (1-1) at Arkansas (0-0) Wednesday, Sept. 5 Kansas City 67 76 .469 24 112 1-9 Won! 
EAST Pittsburgh (2-0) at Oklahoma (1-0) Rochester 4, Columbus 3 Minnesota 65 79 .451 27 z-5-5 Losl4 Holy Cross (0-0-1) at Army (0-0) Northern Iowa (1-1) at Oklahoma St. (1-1) Thursday. Sept. 6 Ohio St. (1-0) at Boston College (0-1) SW Louisiana (2-0) at Texas A& M (1-0) Columbus 5, Rochester 4 NATIONAL LEAGUE Michigan St. (0-0) at Syracuse (1-1) FAR WEST Division
Friday, Sept. 7 East 
SOUTH 
Cnadel (1-0) at Air Force (1-1) Columbus 2, Rochester 1 w L Pd GB LIO Streak Florida (1-0) at Alabama (0-1) Saturday, Sept. 8 Pittsburgh .583 Lost 2 
Colorado St. (2-0) at Arizona St. (1-0) 84 60 z-6-4 Central Florida (1-1) at Bethune-Cookman (2-0) Washington St. (1-11 at Brigham Young (2-0) Rochester 5, Columbus 1 New York 82 61 .573 1 112 5-5 Won4 
Miarn, Fla. (0-1) at California (1-0) Rochester wins series 3-2 
Georgia Southern (1-1) at Florida Sl (1-0) Montreal 75 68 .524 8112 5-5 Lost 1 Southern Mississippi (2-0) at Georgia (0-1) Arizona (1-0) at New Mexico (1-1) Chicago 68 75 .476 15 112 z-6-4 Won3 Indiana (0-0) at Kentucky (1-1) Idaho (1-1) at Oregon (1-0) Championship Philadelphia 65 78 .455 18 112 3-7 Lost 4 Miarn, Ohio (0-2) at LSU (1-0) St. Louis 79 19 Won!
UNL V (0-2) at Oregon St. (0-2) (Best-of-7) 65 .451 z-5-5 
Kansas (1-1) a1 Louisville (1-0-1) Penn St. (0-1) at Southern Cal (1-0) Monday, Sept. 1 0 
Clemson (1-1) at Maryland (2-0) West Division
Stanford (0-1) at UCLA (0-1) Rochester 4, Omaha 3 
Auburn (1-0) vs. Mississippi (1-0) Tuesday, Sept. II L Pd Streak
Fresno St. (2-0) at Utah (2-0) w GB LIO Fullerton St. (1-1) at Mississippi St. (0-1) 
Idaho St. (1-0) at Weber St. (1-1) Omaha 7, Rochester 4 Cincinnati 81 61 .570 4-6 Won! Wednesday, Sept. 12 Los Angela 75 68 .524 6 112 4-6 Won! 
Omaha 5, Rochester 4, 12 innings San Francisco 75 68 .524 6112 WonS
z-8-2 Thursday, Sept. 13 San Diego 66 76 .465 15 5-5 LoS! I
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 64 79 17112 Lost 1 
Houston .448 z-4-6 Omaha leads series 3-1 RESULTS Omaha 9, Rochester 7 
Atlanta 58 85 .406 23112 z-5-5 Lost4 Schedules of the AP Top 25 for this week. 
. 14 z-denotes first game was a win 
1. 
Notre Dame (0-0) vs. No. 4 Michigan, OAKVILLE, Ontario (AP) -Scores Saturday. Thursday after the first round of the $1 million AMERICAN LEAGUE 

2. 
Auburn (1-0) at Mississippi, Saturday. Canadian Open played on the 7, 102-yards, Par Wednesday's Games 

3. 
Florida State (1-0) vs. GA Southern, Saturday. 35-37-72 Glen Abbey Go~ Club: Oakland 9, Seattle 3 

4. 
Michigan (0-0) at No. 1 Notre Dame. Saturday. Brad Faxon 32-3~5 Nolan Boston 6, Milwaukee 1 

5. 
Brigham Young (2-0) vs. Wash. State, Saturday. John Cook 32·3~5 Ken Green 33-39-72 Texas 5, New York 4 

6. 
Southern Cal (1-0) vs. Penn State, Saturday. Dave Barr 32-3~6 Mike Donald 36-36-72 Baltimore 2, Detroit 1 

7. 
Tennessee (2-0-1) vs. Texas-EI Paso. Saturday. Bobby Wadkins 33-3~8 Mike Hulbert 35-37-72 Cleveland 12, Chicago 2 

8. 
Nebraska (2-0) vs. Minnesota, Sept. 22. Jim Hallet 30-38-68 Rick Fehr 38-35-73 Kansas City 7, Toronto 5 

9. 
Colorado (1-0-1) at No. 21 Illinois, Saturday. John Adams 33·3~8 Fred Funk 38-35-73 California 8, Minnesota 6 

10. 
Miami. Fla. (0-1) at California, Saturday. Clark Dennis 34·3~8 Lennie Clements 37-36-73 Thursday's Games 

11. 
Virginia (2-0) vs. Navy, Saturday. David Peoples 36-32~8 Bob Gilder 36-37-73 Late Games Not Included 

12. 
Texas A&M (1-0) vs. SW Louisiana, Saturday. Richard Zokol 35-3~8 BrianKamm 38-35-73 New York 7, Detroit 3 

13. 
Pittsburgh (2-0) at No. 14 Oklahoma, Saturday. ian Baker-Finch 33·3~8 Jim Nellord 37-36-73 Baltimore 5, Toronto 3 t 4. Oklahoma (1-0) vs. No. 13 Pittsburgh, Sat. Andrew Magee 33·3~ Larry Rinker 36-37-73 Chicago 9, Boston 6 


15. Arkansas (0-0) vs. Tulsa, Sarurday. Stan Utley 35-33-68 Bill Sander 35-38-73 Minnesota at Oakland, (n) !6. Clemson (1-1) at Maryland, Saturday. Sean Murphy 32-36-68 Brian Claar 35-38-73 Seattle at Caldornia, (n) 
17. 
Ohio State (1-0) at Boston College, Saturday. Wayne Grady 32-36-68 MikeSm~ 35-38-73 Only games scheduled 

18. 
Houston (2-0) beat Texas Tech 51-35. Wayne Levi 32-36-68 B.obby McCallister 38-35-73 Friday's Games !9. Michigan State (0-0) at Syracuse. Saturday. Curtis Strange 35·3~8 Bob Lohr 36-37-73 New York (leary 8-18) at Detrott (Alred 1-0), 7:35 p.m. 


20. Arizona (1-0) at New Mexico, Saturday. Jim Woodward 35·3~8 Larry Silveira 35-38-73 Baltimore (Te~ord 2-2) at Toronto (Key 10-7). 7:35p.m. 21.11linois (0-1) vs. No.9 Colorado, Saturday. Mark Wiebe 34-3~9 Sonny Skinner 33-4()-73 Boston (Hesketh 0-2) at Chicago (McDowell 12-7), 8:05p.m. 
22. 
Washington (1-0) at Purdue, Saturday. Davis Love Ill 34-3~9 Willie Wood 37-37-74 Milwaukee (Navarro 7-5) at Texas (Ryan 13-7), 8:35p.m. 

23. 
Texas (1-0)vs. No.9 Colorado, Sept. 22. Jack Kay Jr. 36-3~9 Dan Halldorson 36-38-74 Cleveland (S.Valdez 3-5) at Kansas City (Appier 11-6), 8:35p.m. 

24. 
Florida (1-0) at Alabama, Saturday. Jerry Haas 33-36-69 David Canipe 36-38-74 Seattle (M.Young 8-14) at Caldornia (McCaskill li-fO), 10:35 p.m. 


TRANSACTIONS 
25. Arizona State (1-0) vs. Colorado St., Saturday. Emlyn Aubrey 32-37~9 Bill Buttner 37-37-74 Minnesota (Guthrie 6-7) at Oakland (Stewart 19-10), 10:35 p.m. Nick Price 35-3~9 Donnie Hammond 37-37-74 Saturday's Games Ricky Kawagishi 31-38~9 Torn Purtzer 41-33-74 Baltimore at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. George Bums 32-37~9 Rick Gibson 37-37-74 Minnesota at Oakland, 4:05p.m. Jim Gallagher 34-3~9 Man Cole 34-4()-74 Boston at Chicago, 7:05 p.m. 
Mark Brooks 36-3~9 Billy Ray Brown 34-4()-74 New York at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. BASEBALL ' Mark McCumber 32-38-70 Ray Barr 37-37-74 Cleveland at Kansas City. 8:05p.m. 
National League Steve Jones 34-36-70 D. Harrington 36-38-74 Milwaukee at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE&-Traded Dan Forsman 33-37-70 Grant Welle 36-38-74 Seattle at Caldornia, 1 0:05 p.m. 

Dennis Cook, pitcher, to the Los Angeles Dodgers Brian Tennyson M~Adcock Sunday's Games
33-37-70 35-39--74 for Darrin Fletcher, catcher. John Inman 34-36-70 
Rami Bouchard 35-39--74 New York at Detroit, 1:35 p.m. ORLANDO PRO BASEBALL, INC:­Jeff Sluman 35-35-70 Bruce Bulina 35-39--74 Boston at Chicago, 2:35p.m. 
Named Bob Boone manager. 
Curt Byrum 33-37-70 Jim Thorpe 34-41-75 Cleveland at Kansas City, 2:35p.m. BASKETBALL Paul Azinger 35-35-70 Phil Blackmer 36-39--75 Milwaukee at Texas, 3:05p.m. 
Association

National Basketball Jim Benepe 34-36-70 Bob Eastwood 37-38-75 Seattle at California, 4:05p.m.
DALLAS MAVERICK&-Signed Dillard Pruitt 35-35-70 

HowardTw~ 37-38-75 Minnesota at Oakland, 4:05p.m. Jesse Spinner, center, to a one-year contract. Paul Trittler 33-37-70 Clark Burroughs 38-37-75 Baltimore at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Continental Basketball Association Andy North 35-36-71 Ray Floyd 36-39--75 CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER Jay Delsing 37-34-71 Jim Carter 36-39--75 NATIONAL LEAGUE BULLETs-Named Brett Meister director of public Patrick Burke 36-35-71 Bob Tway 37-38-75 Wednesday's Games relations. 
Lee Janzen 38-33-71 Steve Chapman 32-43-75 Chicago 9, Philadelphia 3 SAN JOSE JAMMERS--Named Kirk Triplett 34-37-71 Rob Sullivan 39-36-75 San Francisco 8, Atlanta 3 
Gerry Freitas assistant coach. Pat Mcgowan 38-33-71 Danny Mljovic 37-38-75 Montreal 6, St. Louis 2 FOOTBALL 
Steve Pate 35-36-71 Neal Lancaster 37-39--76 New York 2, Pittsburgh 1 National Football League M.ark Calcavecchia 34-37-71 Chris Perry 36-4()-76 Houston 3, Cincinnati 1, 13 innings 
ATLANTA FALCON&-Signed Tony Bruce Lietzke 34-37-71 W. Heintzelman 36-4()-76 Los Angeles 1 0, San Diego 3 

Casillas. nose tackle, to a two-year contract. Greg Twiggs 34-37-71 Joel Edwards 36-4()-76 Thursday·s Games Signed William Evers, defensive back. Frank Edmonds 34-37-71 Tommy Moore 37-39--76 Chicago 6, Philadelphia 5canadian Football League P.H. Horgan Ill 34-37-71 Loren Robiarts 37-39--76 Cincinnati 7, Houston 5CALGARY STAMPDER&-Activated Rick Todd 35-36-71 Jeff Wilson 36-4()-76 St. Louis 6, Montreal 4 Moustafa Ali, defensive back, and Tom Porras, L.ance Ten Broeck Ted Tryba 
36-35-7f 37-39--76 New York 6, Pittsburgh 3 quarterback. Placed Lou Caiazzo, defensive end, Mark Hayes 36-35-71 Mike Schuchart 38-38-76 Only games scheduled and Terrence Jones, quarterback, on the injured Jay Don Blake 32-39--71 Gar Hamitton 35-41-76 
Friday's Games list. Duffy Waldorf 34-37-71 John Dowdall 36-4()-76 Los Angeles (Valenzuela 12-12) at Cincinnati (Browning 13-7), 7:35p.m.
HAMIL TON TIGER-CAT&-Activated Brad Bryant a-Warren Sye

35-36-71 38-38-76 
Pittsburgh (Walk 5-5) at Montreal (Barnes 0-0), 7:35p.m. 
Earl Winfield, wide receiver. Placed Dan Sellers, Tommy Armour Ill 35-36-71 Don Shirey 36-4()-76 Philadelphia (Combs 7-9) at New York (Fernandez 9-12), 7:35p.m. 
linebacker, and Cart Parker, wide receiver. on the Corey Pavin 34-37-71 Michael Allen 36-4()-76 San Diego (lilliquisr 3-9) at Atlan!a (Giavine 7-II), 7:40 p.m.
practice roster. Tom Eubank Torn Sieckmann
33-38-71 39-37-76 
San Francisco (Downs 1-0) at Houston (PortugaiS-10), ~:35 p.m.
OTIAWA ROUGH RIDER&­Jeff Hart 34-37-71 Scott Verplank 38-38-76 Chicago (M.Williams 1-7) at St. Louis (B.Smith 7-8), 8:35p.m.
Released Cornelius Redick, wide receiver. Greg Bruckner 36-35-71 Greg Hickman 36-4()-76 Saturday's Games WINNIPEG BLUE BOMBERs­D. Eichelberger Russ Cochran 
31-41-72 36-41-77 
Philadelphia at New York, 1 :35 p.m. 
Activated Jerome Rinehart, defensive tackle; David Ogrin 35-37-72 Chris Patton 37-4()-77 Los Angeles at Cincinnati, 7:05 p.m. 
Quentin Riggins, linebacker; and Sammy Garza, Bobby Clampett Clarence Rose
34-38-72 39-38-77 
San Diego at Atlanta. 7:10p.m.
quarterback. Placed Ken Pettway, defensive back, Buddy Gardner Ernie Gonzalez 
36-36-72 36-41-77 
Pittsburgh at Montreal, 7:50 p.m. 
and Ouency Williams, defensive end, on the Ed Fiori 34-38-72 S. Lamontagne 36-41-77 San Francisco at Houston. 8:05 p.m. 
practice roster. Hal Sutton 34-38-72 Cart Cooper 36-41-77 Chicago at St. Louis, 8:05 p.m. 
HOCKEY Joey Sindelar 34-38-72 a-Peter Major 38-4()-78 Sunday's GamesNational Hockey League John Huston 37-35-72 Fred Couples 39-4()-79 Pittsburgh at Montreal, 1 :35 p.m. 
NEW YORK RANGERs-Agreed to Scott Hoch Timothy Straub 

35-37-72 38-41-79 
Philadelphia at New York, 1 :35 p.m. 
terms with John Ogrodnick, left wing. Returned Torn Byrum 35-37-72 Lon Hinkle 37-42-79 San Diego at Atlanta, 2:10p.m. 
John Vary, defenseman, to North Bay of the D.A. Weibring Steve Hart
37-35-72 41-38-79 
Los Angeles at Cincinnati, 2:15p.m. 
Ontario Hockey League; Greg Leahy, forward, to Dewey Arnette 35-37-72 Jerry Anderson 38-42-80 Chicago at St. Louis, 2:15 p.m. 
Portland of the Western Hockey League; and Jack Ferenz 35-37-72 Gary Hallberg 37-44-81 San Francisco at Houston, 2:35 p.m. 
Jason Prosofsky, forward. to Medicine Hat of the 
Bob Wolcott 35-37-72 Tony Sills 39-42-81 WHL. Released Scot Johnston, forward. 
Jerry Pate 37-35-72 J.-L. LaMarre 39-42-81 SOCCER Ray Stewart 33-39--72 Craig Stadler 39·4~3 National Professional Soccer League NPSL-Granted a franchise to the New York Kick for the 1990-91 season. 
LEAGUE LEADERS 

U.S. Soccer Federation 
U.S. NATIONAL TEAM-Loaned Based on 380 at Bats Based on 380 at Bats

Tony Meola, goalkeeper, to Watford of the English AMERICAN LEAGUE second division through June 30. 
G AB R H Pet. G AB
COLLEGE R H Pet. <. NCAA-Levied a $1 ,000 fine and a Rl-ldsnOak 120 437 143 .327 McGeeStL 501 76 168 .335
107 125 Brett KC Dykstra Phi
129 162 135 534 179 Plmero Tex 390
public reprimand against Texas A&M for failing to 496 77 .327 97 .335
Magadan NY 126
report the ineligibility of an athlete before the 1990 135 525 65 170 .324 66 128 328
Murray LA 

track championships. Restored the eligibility of Trammell' Det 136 521 67 162 .311 136 488 84 155 .318
Dawson Chi 

McCann U!u, Arizona defensive back, and Andre Boggs Bsn 139 560 129 470 61 147 .313
84 174 .311 Grace Chi 
139 521 63

Boyd, Robert Monris basketball guard. Burks Bsn 162 .311
134 516 80 160 .310 LoSmnh All 
ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE­DParker Mil 119 401 61 124 .309
140 544 66 167 .307 TGwynn SO 139
Voted to inv~e Aorida State to join the conference. 566 78 175 .309
McGriff Tor 135 486 84 149 .307 Bonds Pit 135 467 93 144 .308
ARKANSAS-PINE BLUFF­

Puckett Min DeShields Mon
Announced that they have forfeited last season's 130 487 79 149 .306 112 441 64 134 .304 
Harper Min Duncan Cin 113 392 61
seven football victories and a tie for using an 122 435 58 133 .306 119 .304 ineligible player. 
Home Runs
DARTMOUTH-Named Jessica Home Runs Mitchell, San Francisco, 34; Sandberg, Chicago, 34; Strawberry, New York, 34; Bonilla, Pittsburgh. 

Levine assiSiant field hockey coach. 
Fielder, Detroit, 46; McGwire. Oakland, 37; JCanseco, Oakland, 36; McGriff, Toronto, 
31; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 30; Gant, Atlanta. 28; Bonds. Pittsburgh, 27; Daniels, Los AnQeles. 24; 34; Deer, Milwaukee, 27; Gruber, Toronto, 26; AHenderson, Oakland, 26; BJackson, Kansas Justice, Atlanta, 24.
INDIANA STATE-Suspended 

Marvin Bullock, quarterback, for violation of team 
City, 24. rules. 
Runs Batted In

NORTHERN MONTANA-Named Runs Batted In Torn Robinson men's assistant basketball coach. Fielder, Detroit, 118; McGwire, Oakland, 101; Gruber, Toronto. 99; JCanseco, Oakland, 
MaWilliams, San Francisco, Ill; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 106; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 105; JCarter, San PITISBURGH-Named Sam Sciullo DtegO, 105; Strawberry, New York, 100; M~chell, San Francisco, 89; Wallach, Montreal, 89; Dawson.
93; DParker. Milwaukee, 87; Sierra, Texas. 87; Maldonado. Cleveland, 85; Trammell. 
Chicago, 87.

assistant sports information director. 
Detroit. 85. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS-CARBON­

DALE-Named Sam Riggleman baseball coach. Pitching (11 Decisions)
Pitching (11 Daclalons)

SOUTHERN CAL. COLL.-Named Darwin, Houston, 11-2, .846; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 19-6, .760; Tudor, St. Louis, 12-4, .750; Gooden, Matt Fogelsong sports information director. Welch, Oakland, 23-6, .793; BJones, Chicago, 11-3, .786; Clemens. Boston, 20-6, .769; New York, 17-6, .739; RMartinez. Los Angeles, 17-6, .739; Cook, Los Angeles, 8-3, .727; Boyd, 
TEXAS-PAN AMERICAN-Named ARobinson. Milwaukee, 10-3, .769; Bollon, Boston, 9-3, .750; Stieb, Toronto, 18-6, .750; Montreal, 10-5, .667; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667; Robinson, San Francisco, 10-5, .667; Viola, New Ke~ Hutson assistant track and cross-country CFinley, California, 17-6, .739; Wells. Toronto, 11-4, .733. York, 18-9, .667. coach. 
:t 
il 
i\ 
. I 
i\ 
I' 
Ji 
!1 
r 
I' 
I. 
i' 
I! 
!) I 
I 
i I 
~ 
I 
,i 
I 
' ' 
I. 
:! 
i ' ! il 


The Observer page 19 


Men's tennis travels to Navy 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
After a season in which the 
NCAA Tournament committee 
snubbed the Notre Dame men's 
tennis team from post-season 
play, the Irish open the 1990-91 
fall season this weekend by 
traveling to the Navy National 
All-Conference Tournament at 
Annapolis, Maryland. 
The first outing for the Irish will be a difficult test, as junior All-American David DiLucia will not make the trip for the Irish. Nor will sophomore Andy Zurcher, who is projected to play the season at number three or four. Because of 'an NCAA rule that allows each player to play in a maximum of thirty matches per season, DiLucia will instead play in the Texas All-American on Sept. 28-31. 
Zurcher, who won the num­ber five single flight at last year's Navy Tournament, is sidelined form the trip due to a bout with mononucleosis and is not expected to return until mid-October. 
"Andy worked harder on his game over the summer than anyone else, so we really could have used him this weekend," said fourth-year coach Bob Bayliss. "But our primary con­cern is getting him healthy again." 
Without DiLucia and Zurcher, Notre Dame will rely on three freshmen and two sophomores who have never traveled with the team. Sophomore Chuck Coleman will play at number one singles and will team with freshman Todd Wilson to form the top doubles combination. Coleman, who compiled a 33-13 record last year, welcomes the opportunity to play in the top spot for the Irish. 

"I played at number one a few times last season when Dave was hurt,"said a relaxed Coleman. "I feel pretty confi­dent going in to this tourna­ment and we should be able to see how we match up against some pretty tough competition." 
Along with the Irish, who fin­ished last season ranked 19th in the Volvo Tennis poll, West Virginia is expected to put up a strong showing. Although Notre Dame will play without two of its top four singles play­ers with DiLucia and Zurcher out, Bayliss thinks the competi­tion will help his younger play­ers. 
"For the freshmen, it'll be good to see them play in a match situation. They're going to contribute a lot to this team, but it's just a matter of playing a few matches." 
Early preparation will be a key for tl\e team this season as it faces what Bayliss calls the toughest schedule in the nation. After compiling a 7-4 record last year against Top 25 teams, the Irish were shut out of the NCAA tournament. 

Bayliss learned that schedule strength was a determining factor, so he could not pass up the chance to add two presti­gious tournaments to this sea­son's schedule. The Blue-Grey Classic will feature the Top 16 teams in the nation, and the HEB Collegiate Classic will boast a powerful field as well. Bayliss often questions his de­cision to schedule these two tournaments, but feels that the team needed a schedule of such caliber in order to qualify for the NCAAs. 
"I couldn't pass up the oppor­tunity to play some of the best schools in the South and in the West," said Bayliss. "We'll be able to play some strong teams on neutral courts, which should help during tournament time." 
Sophomore Mark Schmidt will play at number two singles while classmate Ron Rosas will fill the number three slot. Freshman Tom North is ex­pected to play number four sin­gles, sophomore Ryan Lee should play five, and senior Ryan Wenger will start at six. With so many players who haven't had much experience, Bayliss doesn't want to put any added pressure on his troops. 
"We're just looking for bal­ance and someone to emerge and shore up the singles lineup," said Bayliss. "Without two of our top four players I don't expect us to be a domi­nate team this weekend. I have some trepidation, but I'm also excited to see how we do the first time out." 
The Navy field inc!udes Virginia, Indiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas A&M. 
1HEMOSTExCITING CAREEROPPORTUNITIES ARE CWSERThANYou'llllNK 
Before you make that important first as the industry leader means stability career decision, take a look at the big picture. and growth potential. 
We're the world's largest energy So, ifyou're seeking a promising 
company and the third largest chemical future with a Fortune 50 company, look company in the United Slates. :::!!:. no further. 
. Our. size gives you ~-· Check your placement office for diverse optJons, and our status -.-more details. EJ.f{ON 
ThEPGNER SOCCEED. 
An Equal ~nay Employer 

EXXON IS SEEKING TO INTERVIEW BS, MS, AND PhD CHEMICAL, MECHANICAL, CIVIL, AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
INTERVIEW DATES: OCTOBER 16, 17, 18 SIGN UP DATES: SEPTEMBER 17 AND 18 and OCTOBER 1 AND 2 
:.­

. ~..:..-:.::_,_,.,.;­
.·..-~ 

Martin's friend was drunk on night of fatal crash, according to doctor 
PORT CRANE, N.Y. (AP)-A 
medical examiner testified 
Thursday that William 
Reedy's blood-alcohol level 
was well above the legal limit 
when the pickup truck he is 
accused of driving crashed 
near Billy Martin's home last 
Christmas killing the former 
New York Yankees manager. 
Defense attorney Jon Blechman contends Reedy was not driving Martin's pickup truck and was not drunk. Reedy, a Detroit bar owner and Martin's longtime friend, is charged with driving while intoxicated in con­nection with the fatal wreck. 
Later Thursday, Blechman began calling the defenses first witnesses. Reedy told a WBNG-TV reporter he will take the stand, possibly as earlier as Friday. 
Onondaga County Medical Examiner Erik Mitchell told a Town of Fenton Court jury that Reedy's blood-alcohol level as measured by the hospital immediately after the accident was .16 percent. The legal limit in New York for driving while intoxicated is . 10. 
Mitchell testified about the hospital results over Blechman's objections. 
On Wednesday, a state po­lice expert testified their test showed Reedy had a blood­alcohol level of .10. The ex­pert said the test had a mar­gin of error which could put the blood-alcohol level at anywhere between .0975 percent and .13 percent. 
Mitchell said he presumed the hospital test used l;>lood 
Hor~J. P.9.RqtrY,P.ti~Jena 
TRAIL RIDES 
Over 500 acres of 219-778-4625
+Jt meadows, ponds, OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND woods. 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE. IN 
11h Mi. south or Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 
BEFOBEYOU 
HAVE TO BURY 
YOURHEADIN 
BOOKS••• 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BWWDRY
$ff95 
• No Appointment! 
• 7 Days a Week! 
• FBEE Ta.nning ­Buy4-Get4 FBEE! 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTl;R!: 
GRAPE RO. MISHA\'¥AkA 
277-7946 
tCL.I1S ~o,,v il-~ Salurdav i.l-6 • s_,.,aa. -. 
~'Oyngtl!Ch,cil\).'~a~~(.Jrtt.,.: ·....,_ 
serum rather than whole 
blood which the state police 
used, which could account for 
the higher reading. 
Blechman argued that the 

only test that could be al­
lowed by law was the one 
done by state police. 
Mitchell also testified that 

he evaluated the injuries to 
Reedy and Martin four days 
after the accident. He said the 
injuries suggested to him that 
Reedy was driving and Martin 
was a passenger. 
Blechman has said the 53­year-old Reedy only told in­vestigators he was driving to protect Martin, whom he thought was still alive. The five-time former New York Yankees manager had a long history of alcohol-related problems, including public fights with his ballplayers. 
Several witnesses who ar­rived on the scene minutes after the crash have testified that they found Reedy piled on top of Martin on the pas­senger side of the pickup truck, which was lying driver­side up in a ditch at the driveway entrance to Martin's farm . 
If convicted, Reedy faces a mandatory fine of between $350 and $500, revocation of his driver's license for at least six months and a possible jail sentence of up to a year. 
Martin, 61, died of head and neck injuries. 
Martin's widow, Jilluann, who has been attending the trial, has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the town and Reedy. 

II 
I~ I 
I~ 
p 
I I: 
llf. 
ll 
i i 
\ 
I 
l t 

page 20 The Observer 

California will 

Spartans plan to confuse
face an angry 

Hurricane team Orangemen with defense 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. {AP) -A SYRACUSE, N.Y. {AP) -"That's part of the game plan. season-opening loss at Brigham Michigan State's frenzied de­They come flying in from all Young has left the Miami fense may look out of control, over the place. I'm not talking Hurricanes with "bad feelings but it's a calculated chaos de­about crazy football. I'm talking and bad vibrations" as they signed to confuse and conquer about well designed schemes," prepare for Saturday's game at opponents. he said. California, quarterback Craig For Syracuse, the key to de­The Spartans are coached by Erickson said. feating the 19th-ranked George Perles, who as defensive 
"From the secretaries to the Spartans on Saturday will be coordinator with the NFL's equipment managers, there's a not to succumb to their mad­Pittsburgh Steelers in the 1970s bit more of a sense that you dening defensive tactics, say the designed the stunt 4-3 'defense don't take things for granted," Orange men. that became known as "The Erickson said. "If you don't play assignment Steel Curtain." 
The 28-21 loss at BYU gave football, they've got you," said Perles has duplicated the Miami an 0-1 record for the offensive guard Gary stunt 4-3 at Michigan State, first time since 1985, and it McCummings. "They'll have you which is 19-3-2 in Big Ten dropped the Hurricanes from so confused. You'll be chasing Conference games the past first in The Associated Press them all over the field and have three seasons. Last year, the poll to 10th, their lowest rank­no idea what you're doing." Spartans were the league's ing in three years. Syracuse redshirt freshman leading defensive team, limiting 
"When we lose, it's like talk­quarterback Marvin Graves ex­opponents to just 86 rushing ing about our mothers," defen­pects to be the primary target yards per game. They were sive end Eric Miller said. of Michigan State's disconcert­sixth nationally in scoring de­"There'll be some mean people ing defense. fense, giving up 12.6 points per on that field against Cal." "If we worry about what we game, while recording a 
The Hurricanes have lost only have to do and not what they're league-leading 39 turnovers. three of their past 55 regular­doing, we'll be all right," said The Spartans will show an season games. Graves. "If we execute, they opponent dozens of different 
"It's something we're not have to stop us." combinations of blocking used to doing down here, so it's not among Coach Dennis haven't proven that we're any­That's easier said than done, schemes, blitzes and stunts us­very tough," Erickson said. Erickson's concerns. thing yet." Syracuse Coach Dick ing its four down linemen and "Any time it happens, it creates "It's like anything in life -Miami gave up 474 yards to MacPherson said as his un­three linebackers. a lot of bad feelings and bad you get slapped in the face, and the Cougars, managed only 2.6 ranked Orangemen {1-1) pre­"They best way we can de­vibrations and shakes things you wake up a little bit," yards per carry rushing and al­pared for the nationally-tele­scribe their defense is that they up." Erickson said. "Sometimes a lowed three sacks. Erickson vised contest against Michigan run plays," said MacPherson. 
Ordinarily, complacency could loss sobers you up pretty fast." said he planned no lineup State, which will be opening its "They don't come out and say, be a problem against Cal. The The coach predicted that changes against Cal. 1990 season. 'Here's the formation. We're Bears beat Wisconsin 28-12 in Miami will play well Saturday. "Don't be surprised if we get going to play this front, this their opener but were drubbed "I still think we're a good Miami won the national disrupted. It's not us, it's them. coverage and this linebacker at Miami last year, 31-3. team, but we've got to go out championship last year with They do it to everybody," said adjustment. They'll call a play 
Now, however, listlessness is and prove it," he said. "We one loss; Erickson said. MacPherson. and whatever you got out, here 
Hoyas 

JJ1UNllcrD~ ~ 
continued from page 24 

JJIP\jy IE~IECCWITWJE CCcrDIDIDITWJEIE
country running last year. 
Senior Jenny Ledrick, who will skip Saturday's meet due to injury, might be the team's best 

APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE 
runner, but will have to over­come those injuries to succeed. The Irish will once again face a very competitive schedule as 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE -3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
they will host both the National Catholics Invitational and the Notre Dame Invitational. These meets will feature such top 

Available positions include: 
flight schools as Villanova (last year's NCAA champion), 

Exec. Coordinator Secretary Chairman Hotels: Hospitality Chairman 
Providence, Boston College, and 
DePaul. 

Dinner Chairman Mass Chairman Hall parties Chairman 
"The National Catholics meet 

Brunch Chairman Workshop Chairman 
will be a better indicator of where we're at because we'll be 

Cocktail Chairman Finance Chairman 
running against teams such as 
Loyola and Marquette, who are 
more toward our level," said 
Connelly. 
"Our major goal is to win the 

Help make JPW 1991 one of the best weekends of your experience!! 
MCC championships. Everything is focused toward running well on October 27," said Connelly of the meet to be held in Detroit. 

APPLICATIONS DUE SEPTEMBER 17 
There's anew day care In town.... 
id's Corner, Inc. 
....a little comer of the world just for kids. 
*Specializing In Infants and Toddlers. *We Take ChAdron from 6Wks. to 2Years.
Immediate 
*CompeUUva Rates. *Educated Staff. Openings! *Open from 6:30 a.m. to 6:00p.m. *Developmental Program.
Call Now! 
256-7311 ConvenienUy located at: 
707 N. Main St. in Mishawaka 
Ample indoor and outdoor play areas. 

I·
:/· 
J 
~ 
Friday, September 14. 1990 
The Observer 
NO volleyball faces crucial test 
By MIKE KAMRADT (American Volleyball Coaches Fiebelkorn for success this Sports Writer Association) rankings. weekend. The Wildcats beat the Irish in The Irish may also get a lift 
This weekend's Big Four four games last year, 15-12, 13-in the middle from freshman Classic in Bloomington, In. is 15, 15-7 and 15-13. They Molly Stark. Stark, who very important for the Notre return four starters from last Lambert describes as, "a Dame women's volleyball team. year's 24-11 squad. The Irish tremendous athlete" has 
What the Irish need to estab­haven't faced Louisville for played well when she has been lish is consistency. They can't three years. The Cardinals in the line-up. Her three solo afford to get in a pattern of were 21-12 last season also blocks and ten assists are having a terrible weekend (as return a good number of second on the club. In the they did at the Washington starters with five. championship match against State Invitational) and one "Both these teams are beat­Western Michigan last great weekend, i.e. last week­able," said Lambert."The key weekend she registered one end's championship of the for us this weekend and for the solo and four assists, as well as Notre Dame Invitational. rest of the season is the middle. four kills. 
Granted, playing only on The hitting and the blocking On the outside, the Irish will weekends right now makes it a need to improve. The faster it continue to look primarily to bit tougher to develop that con­improves, the better we'll be." seniors Tracey Shelton and sistency. Still, it's something the Sophomore Jessica Colleen Wagner (34 kills). Irish must do if they are to Fiebelkorn anchors the middle Shelton, ·last weekend's tour­reach their goal of being a Top for the Irish. In just six matches nament MVP, is second in kills 20 team. this year, she's already reached with 48. Her high leap and 
"Last weekend was a big con­the halfway mark in solo blocks powerful swing make for a po­fidence builder for us," said from last year. With 12 so far tent weapon. Marilyn Cragin, head coach Art Lambert. "But, this season, she should have no who had a career match we're still not there as far as trouble passing last year's mark against Western Michigan (18 consistency." of 25. Her 1.23 block average kills, .441 hitting percentage) 
The Irish will take on leads the team. is the type of dominating Kentucky at 6 p.m. on Friday Fiebelkorn has also had a player that can frustrate the and then will battle Louisville at great deal of success hitting. opposition when she's on. The the same time Saturday night. Her 55 kills leads the team and anticipated return of Jennifer Kentucky was ranked number her kill percentage of .255 is Slosar will give the Irish 29 in pre-season AVCA third. The Irish have to have a 
good performance from 


OUTDOORSADVENTURE! 
NEVER TRIED CAMPING? 
ONE-NIGHT CAMPING TRIP SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
POTATO CREEK STATE PARK 
REGISTRATION AND TRIP PREPARATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30-9:00PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM 
ROPE BRIDGES SHELTER BUILDING "OWL PROWLS" STARGAZING 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
LAST CALL 

RCIA PROGRAM (BECOMING CATHOLIC) ( ( (

J 
AND ( 
CONFIRMATION PROGRAM begins Sunday, September 16th 
~ 


RCIA -3 -4:30 for candidates and sponsors J La Fortune, ND Room, 2nd floor ( 
( Confirmation -7 pm for candidates and sponsors La Fortune, ND Rm. 2nd floor' ( Further information: Sr. Mary Curran, esc ( Campus Ministry ( 239-5242 ( 
J 
page 21 

Friday 14 
4:45 Women's Soccer vs. Valparaiso, Alumni Field 

7:30 Men's Soccer vs. St. Louis, Krause Stadium 
Notre Dame AJumnl Baseball Classk; Doubleheader, games start 7pm& 9pm 
1oam Women's Cross Country vs. Georgetown, Burke Memorial 
10:30 Men's Cross Country Georgetown, Burke Memorial 
8pm Football vs~ Michigan, Notre Dame 
Women's golf will compete in Illinois State Invitational 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's golf team will head to Normal, Illinois this weekend to compete in the Illinois State University Invitational. The seventeen team invite includes strong teams from Northern Illinois, Purdue, Michigan State, Illinois State, University of Illinois, and Southern Illinois. 
Irish Coach Tom Hanlon is optimistic about the teams chances. 
Kif we play our best we could challenge for one of the top six spots," Hanlon says. 
Expected to post low scores for the Irish are senior captain Roberta Bryer, senior Pandora Fecko, sophomore Kathy Phares, and freshman Crissy Klein. 
Last weekend, the team fin­ished third in the Lady Wolverines Invitational behind Michigan and Wisconsin. Roberta Bryer, low scorer for the Irish, finished third overall. 
Junior Allison Wojnas finished thirteenth and sophomores Cappy Mack and Kathy Phares tied for fourteenth. In the last two years, the team's scores have dropped each tournament and Coach Hanlon believes this will continue through the weekend. 
KWe are a young team, but we are very tournament tough," he says. 
Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

..: 



KIM SCANLAN 
"The Jessica Nail System" 
• 
Kim has been in the ralon business for 4 years, a salon manager for 2 years. 

• 
Kim has been a Jessica Nail roles consultant for the past 3 years. She is looking forward to seeing clients at her new location. 


CAPELLO HAIR DESIGN 
315 Uncolnway West, Mlsh. (3 biodt• E. of 100 center{ 
255-1001 


Friday, September 14, 1990
The Observer 
page 22 


Women's soccer squad prepares to rebound vs. 

By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will try to rebound from its last weekend's south­ern-fried debacle as it takes on Valparaiso and Washington University at Alumni Field this weekend. 
So far this season, the youth­ful Irish have compiled a 1-2 record. The one Notre Dame victory came in the first regu­lar-season game, as the Irish trounced Division II power Northeast Missouri State 5-1 at Alumni Field. 
However, the Irish were sent home from their recent road trip without a win by Top 20 hosts Duke and UNC­Greensboro. In addition to dropping the two decisions, the Irish were nearly shut out in both games, a fate averted by Marianne Giolitto's penalty shot against Greensboro. 


NEW YORK (AP) -Darryl Strawberry's bat and arm dominated the dream matchup between Dwight Gooden and Doug Drabek, and the New York Mets moved back within 1 1/2 games of first-place Pittsburgh in the National League East, beating the Pirates 6-3 Thursday night. 
I 
I Strawberry hit a three-run ! homer for his 1OOth RBI and threw out Barry Bonds at the plate as the Mets completed a two-game sweep of the Pirates ., and tied a team record with their 11th straight victory at
II 
home. New York is 50-22 at i\·~ Shea Stadium, the best home 
'.l
rl 
Irish 

' 
continued from page 24 

li 
juries and didn't race as well as

I',I,
. ' we could. A lot of things just jll i' came together at the wrong time. But you get better as you
I : 
~ get older. We have a lot of im· 
i provement from last year, and we're pretty focused on November fifth. Georgetown is the first step." 
The experienced squad in­cludes a solid top seven. includ· ing seniors Pat Kearns and Matt Ronzone, along with fifth year senior O'Connor. 
Yet, in their nascent varsity history, the Irish women are nearly unbeatable at home. 
"This weekend is a good chance to see how we react after having such a rough time last weekend," related Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "This will be a good test of character. Hopefully, we'll be able to get some good touches and have more space to work on our offense. These two games are a real chance for us to get our confidence back after the shell-shock we went through last weekend." 
"Last weekend, we were in­timidated," related senior co­captain Mimi Suba. "But we looked back at our best efforts, and remembered what we· ac­complished in preseason. We know we can play." 
Valparaiso, who will take on the Irish at 4:45 p.m. on Friday at Alumni Field, is a club team, and poses a tough challenge to 
Valpo 

Still, it would be premature to dismiss the Irish as reeling and unable to recover from their first two losses of the season. Quite to the contrary. Notre Dame has put in a good week of practice, and wants to quickly start winning again. Perhaps more importantly, the Irish are healthy. 
"For the first time since the first day of preseason, we're all healthy. We don't have anybody on our team who could not play right now because of an injury," 
noted  a  pleased  coach  
Petrucelli.  
NOTES:  The times of this  

weekend's games have each been moved fifteen minutes early. Thus, while schedules may read Valparaiso, Friday at 5 p.m. and Washington University, Sunday at 12 noon, the proper times are 4:45 p.m. and 11:45 a.m. respectively. Both contests will take place at Alumni FiAiri 
Chris Petrucelli 

Notre Dame's drive for regional prominence. 
"It's early in the season, and there is not much information available on Valparaiso," ex­plained coach Petrucelli, "but I think that because we are Notre Dame, everybody gets up to play us." 
"We need to remember to control our game," concurred Suba. "If we play like we can. we can play with anybody. The team gets along well, and we support each other well. It's still the beginning of the season ­we need some time, and then the rest of the season should be pretty good." 
Washington University, which faces the Irish at 11:45 Sunday morning, is a varsity program in only its second year of exis­tence. Still, the team is the product of a renowned winning soccer tradition. The Washington men's team has made more than one trip to the Division III NCAA champi­onships. 
"There is a very good soccer tradition in St. Louis, and also at Washington University," added coach Chris Petrucelli. "They are certainly motivated to play us, and it's going to be a good game. Both of these teams are definitely excited to play 
HC: " 

SPORTS BRIEFS
Strawberry leads Mets 
The Notre Dame cneeneaamg team, along with 
record in baseball. high crowd of 51,079. 
The Mets and Pirates finish Bonds went 4-for-4, drove in the season with three games at two runs, stole two bases and Pittsburgh. robbed Gregg Jefferies of a 
Gooden (17-6) survived a home run with a leaping catch shaky start and went on to win over the left-field fence in the for the 14th time in his last 15 sixth inning. decisions, giving up 10 hits and three runs in 7 2-3 innings. Strawberry gave the Mets a 3-2 
lead with his 34th home run in Drabek (19-6) lasted only four the fourth inning after Tommy innings. He gave up four runs Herr singled and Dave on six hits. John Franco set a Magadan walked with none out. Mets' record with his 32nd save in 36 chances, breaking Jesse Orosco's mark of 31 in 1984. 
Strawberry and Bonds, can­didates for the MVP award, put on a dazzling display of offense and defense before a season-

United Methodist Students!! 
JOIN US FOR WORSHIP AND ACTIVffiES! First United Methodist Church 
333 N. Main (So. Bend)-across from Burger King 
8:45 AM Celebration Service in Sanctuary (45 min) 
9:30 AM Refreshments in Gathering Room 9:45AM "University Fellowship" in Education Wing 
11:00 AM Traditional Service in Sanctuary (1 hour) 
WE ARE HAPPY TO ARRANGE TRANSPORTATION If you need a ride/ call 233-9463 Mon thru Fri 8 am-Spm 
the Notre Dame Porn Pon squad, will give a performance in front of the bookstore on Saturday at 3 p.m. in preparation for the N,D.-Michigan game. 
Tickets for "Irish on Ice," the ice-skating exhibition show featuring Dorothy Hamill, Lou Holtz and Dick Hosenthal, are now on sale at the Notre Dame box office at 239-7356. ND/SMC students may purchase reserved-seating tickets for $4 or general admission seats for $2. 
NVA Golf Scramble -The deadline for the NVA 2 Person Golf Scramble has been extended to Wednesday, Sept. 19. Entrants must sigh-up at the Golf Shop, located in the Hockne Memorial Building. 
NVA Fields at Stepan Center -Starting Sunday, Sept. 16, Non-Varsity Athletics will be running softball league play on the Stepan South Football Field. In addition, within the next few weeks, all of the field and volleyha\1 court areas will be devoted to league play. 
I I 

LATE NIGHT DINING
I 
\1' 
r~ Available Home Football Weekends 
:ll 
i!l 
H 
Fridays & Saturdays ofHome Games, I!! We Will Be Open 'Round The Clock 
''j 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY,. *C. B.S. 
Ecumenical Bible Study Tuesday, Sept.18,1990 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 PM. 
one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room of Campus Ministry 
Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call: 239-6633 or 239-5955 
Graduate Students~ Undergraduate Students/ International Students and Members of the Notre Dame Family invited to attend 






Friday, September 14, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORDCAMPUS 
Friday ACROSS 34 Shirley 52 Correction for Temple's first 20Across
7:30 p.m., 9:45 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Drugstore 
1 Subsides 

husband
Cowboy," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Spon­57 Suburban
5 Fusty 35 Celtic Neptune shopping area

sored by Notre Dame Communication & Theatre. 
10 Erstwhile filly 

36 Type of cross 
8 p.m. Closing Reception with African food and dance. 58 Mug
14 Gaffe 

37 Footlike part 
Stepan Center. Sponsored by Notre Dame African Student 59 Orient
15 Maestri's Association. platforms 38 Overwhelm 61 Malefic 40 Genuine article 
16 Declare 62 :rhreefold

41 Chemical
17 "Death in the 63 Type of code

compounds 64 Attaches firmly Afternoon" beast 
43 Anne Baxter role: 1950 65 Romberg18 Afghan prince 
19 Proboscis 44 So-so marks products
20 "Search every 45 Narrow: Comb. 66 The constel­(command by 4 form lation Harp Down) 46 Scipio's 151 MENUS 23 Gorbachev's no 47 National 
DOWN

24 This, in Taxco League M.V.P.: 25 Precious stone 1971 1 Gare de 1'-, 28Scull · 48 Harold of Tin Paris
Notre Dame 

Pan Alley 2 Political entente 30 Monastic
Pep Rally Picnic 

brotherhood so--do-well 3 Force; energy 
Hamburgers 
4 Legendary 
Italian Sausage 
speech garbler 
Turkey Steak 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5"Thus-
Onion & Green Pepper Saute 


Zarathustra" 6 Love apples 7 Yemeni port 27 Expend 44 Of eye tissue 53 Fetid 8 Schubert needlessly 46 Middle: Comb. 54 Thine, to Hans 
products 29 He lies "in a 
form 55 Not one, in 111il~~mE 9 Attains justly cowslip bell" 47Caddy's Dog patch 
• ~=+;.+:.~~E-f 10 Deportment 31 Post:office contents 56 North Sea 
11 Sight from appliance 49 Parts of cranes feeder
Good 

1-!:-1.::::.+:~=-!oiiii. ~~~+=--;:+-:,.+:,:.~ Warwick Castle 32 Upper space 51 Lake and river 57 Cage for hawks p . . • 33 A.F.B. tn Tex. 
in Ireland GO Chinese1tli~~~-· 12 romtstng 35 "-Troyens":
health 

52 Hub pagoda
,.(!~12J~ ~ success Berlioz I ..,~~+:=:-8:::+.::-i 13 Ram's dam 36 Mature -=+:::-+:::=-E-1 21 Popeye's Olive 38 Tolerate 
Answers to any three clues in this 
starts with 

~=-+=:-F.-l 22 Expiate 39 Show-and-tell puzzle are available by touch-tone .::.f.::t::-E-1 25 Mocks activity phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each L.::.l..:...t.:::..L.::.J 26 Void 42 Matriculates minute). ·
good nutrition, 
JAY HOSLER 

SPELUNKER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
LIES! E.'ltR'H\.\1~<3 MIS<3. WORMWOOD S"-ID ~ME . W/o.5 ().. Lit:.' ~E JUS\ 00~ LIKE ~E! '5\.\E 1-\t-..~5 Lim£ BO'i'S.' ITS NOT MY F~ULT.' 
IH NOT Th BLAME..' 

SIIE TOLD '{OJ f\fJYJI ~E ~ .... \)~ .... ~OOOLES, RIGI\1? II Wt>S~t ~to.. 1-\tt.! DID I tJ.E ! NOBOD'( s,&..W ~E ! t '3P..~ NOOOLES? 
'N"-5 FRAtiiED! I ~L~'I '(o.J M\JSI AA~ \X) A~'\~I~G LIKE ~t>-1! 11E/\RO W~t{G. l'M ~~~OCCt{T, I TE.U. '{O\J ·' I DID!'\T SA'( 
I'()::)D\.£5. 

Early vegetarians returning from the kill. 





THE SLUGS 
l\1U\'IE 

FROM CHICAGO SATUll~JDA Y9 §JElP'TlEMJBJER R 5 
FRIDAY, 8:00 AND 10:00 P.M. 

JPJW. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM 

OUTSIDE STEPAN 
ADMISSION: $2.00 (FRESHMEN $1.00 W/COUPON) 
FREE 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
" 

-
-
-, 
Sports 
Friday, September 14, 1990 
a e 24 


Soccer squad will attempt to upset tough Billikens 
season performances.
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer "Against Loyola, we made some mistakes because we are 


Following a frustrating 2-2 so young," Berticelli noted . "I tie with the Loyola Ramblers was disappointed with the tie on Wednesday night, the Notre because we let them (Loyola) Dame men's soccer team re­back into the game. turns home Saturday to face Despite their underdog role, St. Louis University. the Irish remain focused on the 
The nationally-ranked prospects of an upset. Billikens will bring a squad " If we play with consistency," described by Irish coach Berticelli commented, "we're Mike Berticelli as "one of the going to catch someone by sur­most dangerous in the prise. country" into Krause Stadium. Berticelli cited the emergence 


Nevertheless, Berticelli re­of forward Steve LaVigne as mains optimistic. "Playing well as the continued outstand­such an outstanding team can ing play of junior wingback only serve as a positive Kenyon Meyer as keys to an opportunity," he remarked. Irish victory. "We also need the 
The Irish coach also support of the student body," he believes facing the veteran St. said. "It's going to be an Louis squad will help his outstanding game to watch. relatively young team The Irish will continue their overcome the inexperience season on Monday against which has hindered its early Valparaiso. 

By BARBARA MORAN coach Joe Piane agree that and will sit out the first meet of Sports Writer Notre Dame faces a tougher the season. Georgetown team than last O'Connor agreed with his. 
In 1989, for the first time in year, when the Irish upset the coach about Georgetown's two years, the Notre Dame Hoyas 22-33. Notre Dame is strength. men's cross country team curref\.tly ranked 13th in the "They are one of the best failed to secure a bid for the nation, while a Georgetown teams in the country," said NCAA tournament. team highlighted by three All­O'Connor, "and their people 
But this year, an Americans holds the number have improved a lot over last experienced squad stacked twelve spot. year. It will be real close, but with returning upperclassmen we're not backing down. We'll and starring senior captain "The rankings show that try to race as well as we can an and All-American Mike they must be a little better Saturday." O'Connor will make a strong than us," said Coach Piane, Although they are concerned run for an NCAA qualification. concerning the Hoyas, "so to about the Georgetown meet, the The journey down the road to win would be an upset. It'll be Irish are a team focused on the tournament will begin a real close meet." post-season competition. tomorrow, when the Irish face The meet may be even "Last year, we made some the Georgetown Hoyas in the closer, according to Piane, mistakes at the end of the year season opener on the Burke because of the absence of that hurt us," explained Memorial Golf Course at 10:30 sophomore J.T. Burke. Burke, O'Connor. "We had a lot of in-AM. who ran in the top seven last 

Both O'Connor and Irish year, is recovering from illness see IRISH I page 22 
!'{ 
Women's cross country squad overmatched vs. Hoyas
) ! 
By RICH MATHURIN timistic about his team's junior runners Amy Blaising Sports Writer chances. and Diana Bradley. "We have a good group this Blaising ran in every race last 
The Notre Dame women's year and we'll be better than year also and finished in the top cross country team will face a last year, but we can't compete three on numerous occasions. stern test in its opening meet with a team like Georgetown Bradley will be counted on to against national power yet," Connelly says. bring stability to the team with Georgetown Saturday at 10 Despite a difficult schedule, her consistent middle distant 
a.m. at the Burke Memorial the Irish will field a balanced running. Golf Course. Georgetown fin­team of upperclassman and Newly added junior Sarah ished fourth in the NCAA newcomers. Leading the way Esterline and freshman Patricia championships last year and is for the Irish will be senior cap­Villarreal show the most considered to be one of the top tain Terese Lemanski, who ran promise of the new runners. three teams in the nation this in every race last year and Villarreal finished eighth in the year. showed steady improvement state of California in cross 
Notre Dame graduate Joe Montana will try to lead the two-time throughout. She will be sup­defending champion Forty-Niners against Washington this weekend. Coach Tim Connelly is not op-ported by a pair of promising see HOYAS I page 20 
•
Irish baseball alums to play 1n exhibition game 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO outfielder who was drafted by 
teammate, outfielder James Tom Shields, who spent his 
Assistant Sports Editor the Texas Rangers after leading Sass, went in 1989 to the last season at Notre Dame in his team to the 1989 NCAA California League and played 1986, is playing shortstop for 
The Notre Dame baseball tournament. for Stockton, the Milwaukee the class-AAA Buffalo Pirates. 
team will wake up some of its Peltier spent the summer Brewers' clii.Ss-A affiliate. "We've got some of the best 
own echoes tonight when it playing for Tulsa, the Rangers' Pitcher Brian Piotrowicz and prospects," said Irish head 
plays an all-star alumni squad, double-A affiliate, at which he catcher Ed Lund, two seniors coach Pat Murphy, entering into 
consisting mainly of past Irish hit over .275. Peltier was on the 1990 squad, both were his fourth season at Notre 
baseball players who now are drafted after his junior year at drafted by the Los Angeles Dame. "They (the alumni team) 
playing professionally. Notre Dame, and he is back on Dodgers and played in the are going to be quite a chal­
The Alumni Challenge will be campus this year finishing up Great Falls rookie league. lenge. Nobody can get out 
held at 9 p.m. under the lights his degree. Piotrowicz was 2-1 with seven Peltier. Nobody ran on Lund for 
at Stanley Coveleski Stadium in Joining Peltier will be his saves. three years, so there's no rea­
downtown South Bend. An former teammates Pat Mike Coffey, a reliever on last son they'll start now. 
alumni game for older former Pesavento, Erik Madsen, James Ed Lund year's squad, spent the summer "Piotrowicz always rose to the 
baseball players, many who Sass, Brian Piotrowicz, Ed N.C., in the class-A South in Peoria, Az., pitching in a occasion, and Pesavento has 
have played in the major Lund, Mike Coffey, Tim Hutson rookie league for Milwaukee. been a winner on every team
Atlantic League. 

leagues, will start at 7 p.m. and Tom Shields. Erik Madsen, who also was Tim Hutson, the single-season he's played on. All these guys Heading the list of partici­Pesavento, who was drafted drafted in 1989, went to the home-run leader for Notre are in great shape and have 
pants in the alumni game will by the Detroit Tigers in 1989, Dame who graduated in 1988, played all summer, and this is
Yakima Dodgers this summer in 

be 1989 First-Team All­became an all-star shortstop Washington to play in the class­was released from the Brewers going to be the first game of the America choice Dan Peltier, an this summer in Fayetteville, organization this year. 1990-1 season." 
A Northwest League. His 



Joltin' Joe 

--~--~~---~------w --~~------~ -­
rv-7 :s· -:" ' , ' --R : -~ ~ . ~-­
'-' ----_j 


I R I S H 

Irish Football '90 
page 2 Friday, September 14, 1990 
THE GAME 
The Game 
Time 1V & Radio 
Tickets AP Rankings 
College Sportswriters Notre Dame 2 Poll Rankings Michigan 4 
Series Michigan leads 13-8 Notre Dame has won last 3 
Last Game Notre Dame 24 Michigan 19 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 15 MICHIGAN Sept. 22 at Michigan State Sept. 29 PURDUE Oct. 6 STANFORD Oct. 13 AIR FORCE Oct. 20 MIAMI Oct. 27 at Pittsburgh Nov. 3 at Navy Nov. 10 at Tennessee Nov. 17 PENN STATE Nov. 24 at Southern California 
MICHIGAN SCHEDULE 
Sept. 15 at Notre Dame Sept. 22 UCLA Sept. 29 MARYLAND Oct. 6 at Wisconsin Oct. 13 MICHIGAN STATE Oct. 20 IOWA Oct. 27 at Indiana Nov. 3 at Purdue Nov. 10 ILLINOIS Nov. 17 MINNESOTA Nov. 24 at Ohio State 
GAME NOTES 
• 
This marks the 89th straight home sellout for Notre Dame and the 137th in the last 138 games dating to the middle of the 1964 season. 

• 
The Irish have a 17 -game winning streak in Notre Dame Stadium, and they have not lost in the past three seasons at home. The last home loss for Notre Dame was Nov. 15, 1986. when third-ranked Penn State downed the Irish 24­


19. Irish coach Lou Holtz is 20-3 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
• 
Notre Dame will be trying for its fourth straight victory over Michigan in as many years. The Wolverines never lost four straight years to a single opponent during the Bo Schembechler era. 

• 
This will be the 14th time Notre Dame has played at home under portable lights provided by Musco Mobile Lighting in Oskaloosa, iowa. The first game under lights was the 1982 season opener against Michigan. The Irish are 9-4 under lights at home. 

• 
The quote: "Michigan is favored to win the Big Ten and go to the Rose Bowl for the third straight year, and I wouldn't argue with that."­Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 


LAST MEETING 
ANN ARBOR-"Thank God for Rocket Ismail". "He may be the most dangerous player around, with the ball." 
Irish tri-captain Ned Bolcar and Michigan head coach Bo Schembechler pretty much summed up the game as Notre Dame defeated the Wolverines 24-19 Saturday afternoon, rid­ing the wings of the Rocket Man. 
The game. played on a soggy, dark afternoon, 
Michigan (0-0) at Notre Dame (0-0) 
8 p.m. CBS Sports: Jim Nantz, Tim Brandt, John Dockery 
Mutual Radio Network: Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame 1 Michigan 4 
lived up to its billing as the top-ranked Irish battled the No. 2 Wolverines to a close finish. 
Ismail's two kickoff returns for touchdowns in the second half were the best offense for the Irish, who played an extremely conservative game on offense. For his efforts, Ismail was awarded the game ball by Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
-The Observer, September 18, 1989. 

Michigan looking for better luck 

Photo Courtesy of Michigan Sports Information 

Quarterback Elvis Grbac finished 13th nationally in passing efficiency with a 140.2 rating in 1989. 
for the season. 

Senior fullback Jarrod Bunch (53 carries for 208 yards 
in 1989) returns at fullback. With senior Tony Boles (131 
for 839 in '89) gone, as many as three players could see 
action at tailback. Jon Vaughn UO for 11 in '89) and Allen 
Jefferson (65 for 380 in '89) will share the duties, while 
freshman Ricky Powers could see some action. 
"Michigan's ability to run the football always scares 
you," Holtz said, "and then the passing game with Grbac 
does also. I'm concerned about our ability to play pass 
defense." 

Holtz is concerned about the pass defense because 
three starters graduated last spring. Senior All-American 
Todd Lyght does provide a solid base for the 
inexperienced Irish secondary. He likely will be joined by 
Rod Smith, Greg Davis and George Poorman in the 
starting lineup. 

Senior Michael Stonebreaker, who missed 1989 because 
of disciplinary problems, will return to anchor a strong 
linebacking corps that includes Andre Jones. Scott 
Kowalkowski and Demetrius DuBose. 
The Irish offense will feature a new look with 
sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer. He inherits a strong 
legacy left behind by Tony Rice, the catalyst in Notre 
Dame's success the past two seasons. The backfield is 
stacked with fullbacks Rodney Culver and Ryan Milhalko 
and tailbacks Ricky Watters and Tony Brooks. 
Holtz is anxious to see how the offensive line performs Saturday night. Senior quick tackle Winston Sandri is out with a partially torn knee ligament, and senior center Mike Heldt is just getting back to form after battling injuries during the spring and fall. 
"We have not had our five starting offensive linemen in pads at any one time," Holtz said. "That has been the most frustrating thing." 
Mirer could have trouble when he wants to pass because Michigan has one of the best defensive backfields in college football. All four starters return for the Wolverines in the secondary. 
Tripp Welborne, who should compete with Lyght for the Thorpe Award, and Vada Murray combined for seven in­terceptions last fall. Cornerback David Key has started every Michigan game for the past two seasons, while Todd Plate and Lance Dottin alternate at the other cornerback spot. 
J.D. Carlson silenced any questions about Michigan's placekicking game as a freshman last fall. Carlson earned second-team All-American honors from Football News while hitting 37 of 39 extra-point attempts and 13 of 14 field goals. 
Notre Dame sophomore Craig Hentrich gives the Irish a solid kicking game. He should get the majority of the kicking duties after not missing a field goal in fall camp. 

Irish Football '90 
Production: Lisa Eaton Sports Editor: Greg Guffey . Contributing Editors: Frank Pastor, Ken Tysiac, Scott Brutocao, Chris Cooney Photography: Andrew McCloskey 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, September 14, 1990 page 3 
ND, Florida State plan series 
ORlANDO. Fla. (AP) -Florida previous meeting between the State and Notre Dame will play two schools, 19-13, in 1981. a home-and-home football series in 1993-94. officials Florida Citrus Sports Events announced Thursday. Inc. earlier secured three other 
regular-season games for the 

The first game will be Nov. Citrus Bowl. Florida State will 13, 1993, in South Bend. Ind. meet Memphis State this Nov. The tP.ttms will meet again on 17, the Seminoles will play Nov. 12. 1994, at the Florida Virginia Tech on Oct. 12. 1991, Citrus Bowl in Orlando. and Florida will play Mississippi 
The Seminoles won the only on Sept. 12, 1992. 

Photo Courtesy of Michigan Sports Information At 6-6, 322 pounds, All-American offensive· tackle Greg Skrepenak {75) is the biggest pi1_!Yer to ever put on a Michigan uniform. · 
•
:: 
i::: 
F
i•:: 
•: • 
••••: 
•i••....: ..••:.
•
:
•: 
• :: ..• 
. 
...... . 
. . . . . . .

. 
. ..... t · : : Grape Road at lndianRidgePiaza. Mishawaka (NearPhar-MorandT.J. Maxx) _277~1.3_18: · . . . . . . . . . . . . t · · <r; HaciMda Ml!xitah Restllurants c 1
.........~...:.:.:.:.:.:.:~.:.~~~~~.~~~~-~~:.·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
: : : ······ 

T~Ke a brde~andwiches. 
ptzza an 
. 
After a long day of classes and endless homework, one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. 
And. remember. Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 

10% discount on food to all ND/SMC students. faculty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID 
required). So why put up w~it~h~s~ta~le~p~i~zz_a_a_n_d_s~a=nd:-:w;:ic~he~s~--~·;:~~---1
when you can come home t~0 Hacienda? 
Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express. VISA. Master card accepted. 

\..1 0 11\e to Hacie e "{' ~(fi1 
(Jo~ 


Hati!iidii 
FUTURE SCHEDULES 
1991 

September 7 -Indiana September 14 -at Michigan September 21 -Michigan State September 28 -at Purdue October 5 -at Stanford Ocotber 12 -Pittsburgh October 19 -at Air Force October 26 -USC November 2 -Navy November 9 -Tennessee November 16 -at Penn State November 30 -at Hawaii 
Kfrom 
... 
. ....... . 
1992 

September 7 -at Northwestern September 12 -Michigan September 19 -at Michigan State September 26 -Purdue October 3 -Stanford October 10-at Pittsburgh October 24 -BYU October 31 -at Navy November 7 -Boston College November 14 -Penn State November 28 -at USC 
1993 

September 4 · Northwestern September 11 -at Michigan September 18 -Michigan State September 25 -at Purdue October 2 -at Stanford October 9-Pittsburgh October 16 -at BYU October 23 -USC October 30 -Navy November 13 -Florida State November 20 -Boston College 
e It bringsoutthe best in all of us.. 
United Wily 
_,_ 
THE POINTE 
----------.......
~-::=:::..... 
W4>4F4A& 
AT SAINT JOSEnt 
ATTiiNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $445­2 bedroom apartments starting at $550­
Everything you are looking for in a luxury apartment: 
Full size wasber & dryer 
Fully equipped party roomWall to wall carpeting and full kltcbenFloor to ceiling bay windows Outdoor pool and sun deckHeated, covered parking Exercise roomCeramic tiled batbs Tennis courts

Convenient bus transportation to Notre Dame 
287-2684 
9-6 pm Mon -Fri 1..0-5 pm Sat ll-5 pm Sun 
'A~artnl~nU l,hat Stand t\. ·p .a .r .t rrom the Rest 
1994 
September 3 -at Northwestern September 10 -Michigan September 17 -at Michigan State September 24 -Purdue October 1 -Stanford October 8 -at Boston College October 15-BYU October 29 -at Navy November 12 -Florida State at Orlando November 19 -Rice November 26 -USC 
1995 

September 2 -Northwestern September 9 -at Purdue September 16 -Vanderbilt September 23 -Texas September 30 -at Ohio State October 7-at Washington October 14 -at Army October 21 -USC October 28 -Boston College November 4 -Navy 
November 18-Air Force 
Irish Football '90 
page 4 Friday, September 14, 1990 
NOTRE DAME AND MICHIGAN DEPTH CHARTS 

TAILBACK 
12 Ricky Watters 40TonyBrooks 
Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 
5 Rodney Culver 
35 Ryan Mihalko FLANKER 25 R~hib lsmaU QUARTERBACK 
SPLrrENO 10 Adnan Jarrell A 3 Rick Mirer 83 Tony Smith 
87 Lake Dawson
TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 11 B.J. Hawkins 
TACKLE
"' 86 Derek Brown 65 Lindsa~ Knapp 
76 Gene McGuire ~64 Peter Rausch 
'"'·~ ~~ "' "' 
GUARD ~~'f.teldt GUARD 
74 M. Jurkovic 61 Tim Ruddy 52 Tim Rvan 72JoeAIIen 79 Bret ffanklns 
Michigan Defense utDDLE GUARD TACKLE 94 T.~. Osman TACKLE 92 Mike Evans 93 Erik Knuth 61 Mike Fox 60 Sylvester Stanley 95 Pat Marlatt 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKEROUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
b b b . 
45 Brian Townsend ~ 59 Alex Marshall 86 Martin Davis ~ 
Ass Nell Simpson 
INSIDE LINEBACKERINSIDE UNEBACKER A A
30 John Milflgan 37 Erick Anderson 48 Dave Dobreff 49ChrisBohn 
CORNERBACK 
~ ~ 
26 David Key • CORNERBACK 
8 Dwayne Ware FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 47 Willie Edwards 27 Vada Murray 3 Tripp Welborne 5 Preston Waters 29 David Ritter 17 Otis Williams 

TAILBACK  
25 Jon Vaughn  
28 Allen Jefferson  
Michigan Offense  ~  FULLBAcK  
32 Jarrod Bunch  
40 Burnie Legette 
flANKER  
1 Derrick Alexander 7 Alfie Burch  A  QUARTERBACK 15 EMs Grbac  SPUTEND 21 Desmond Howard  
TIGHT ENO • 83 Dave DieboH  TACKLE 75 Greg Skr ~ epeilak  14 Ken Sollom TACKLE  34 Yale VanDynefA  

,.. 88T""J ~®;;:~ "'~'.!r::,w;~ ,.. 
GUARD ~1~~:everitt GUARD 
78 D. Dingman 67 Marc Milia 69 Matt Elliott 68 Joe Cocouo 68 Joe Cocouo 
Irish Defense MIDDLE GUARD TACKLE 50 Chris Zorich TACKLE 69 George Williams 68 George Marshall93 Bob Dahl 95 Junior Bryant 81 Eric Jones 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKEROUTSIDE UNEBACKER 

b b b
37 Scott Kowalkowski ~ 7 Andre Jones 45 Oavon McDonald ~ 
A98 Shawn Smith 

AINSIDE UNEBACKERINSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 
42. Michael Stonebreake 31 Demetrius DuBose 30 Nick Smith 36 Donn Grimm 
CORNERBACK 
~ 

21 Rod Smith ~ CORNERBACK 
41 Reggie Brooks FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 1 ToddLyght 27 George Poorman 26 Greg Davis 33Greglane13 Tom carter 29 John Covington 
OPPONENTS SCHEDULES AND RESULTS 

Oct. 20 LOUISVILLE TIE Colorado Oct. 20 at Boston College 
MICHIGAN Sept. 22 OREGON STATE Oct. 27 NOTRE DAME WIN PACIFIC Oct.27 .at Alabama
Sept. 29 SAN JOSE ST. Nov. 3 at Miami WIN at Mississippi St. Nov. 3 at West Virginia 
Sept. 15 at Notre Dame Oct. 6 at Notre Dame Nov. 10 TEMPLE Sept. 15 TEXAS-El PASO Nov. 10 MARYLAND
Sept. 22 UCLA Oct. 13 usc Nov. 24 at Penn State Sept. 29 At Auburn Nov. 17 at Notre Dame

Oct. 20 WASHINGTON Oct. 13 FLORIDA Nov. 24 PITTSBURGHSept. 29 MARYLAND 
Oct. 6 at Wisconsin Oct. 27 at Oregon NAVY 
Oct. 20 ALABAMA uscOct. 13 MICHIGAN ST. Nov. 3 WASHINGTON ST 
WIN RICHMOND 
Nov. 3 TEMPLE
Oct.20 IOWA Nov. 10 at Arizona Sept. 15 at Virginia WIN at Syracuse
Nov. 10 NOTRE DAME 
Oct.27 at Indiana Nov.17 at California Sept. 15 PENN STATE
Sept. 22 VILLANOVA 
Nov. 17 at Mississippi
Nov. 3 at Purdue AIR FORCE Sept. 22 at Washington
Seot. 29 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov. 24 KENTUCKY
Nov. 10 ILLINOIS Oct.6 at Air Force Sept. 29 at Ohio State 
Dec. 1 at Vanderbilt
Nov. 17 MINNESOTA LOSS COLORADOST Oct. 13 AKRON Oct. 6 WASHINGTON ST PENN STATE 
Nov. 24 at Ohio State WIN HAWAII Oct.27 JAMES MADISON Oct. 13 at Stanford Sept. 15 THE CITADEL Nov. 3 NOTRE DAME Oct. 20 ARIZONA LOSS TEXAS
MICHIGAN STATE Sept. 22 at Wyoming Nov. 10 at Toledo Oct. 27 at Arizona State Sept. 29 at San Diego State Nov. 17 DELAWARE Nov. 3 CALIFORNIA
Sept. 15 at USC Sept. 15 at Syracuse Oct. 6 NAVY Dec. a ARMY Sept. 22 RUTGERS Nov. 10 at Oregon State Sept. 22 NOTRE DAME Oct.13 at Notre Dame TENNESSEE Oct. 6 TEMPLE Nov. 17 UCLA Sept. 29 at Rutgers Oct.27 UTAH Oct. 13 SYRACUSE Nov. 24 NOTRE DAME Oct. 6 IOWA Nov. 3 BRIGHAM Oct. 13 at Michigan YOUNG Oct. 20 at Illinois Nov. 10 at Army Oct. 27 PURDUE Nov. 17 at Texas-EI Paso Nov. 3 INDIANA MIAMI Nov. 10 at Minnesota Nov. 17 at Evanston LOSS at Brigham Young 
eM,'OO""' 

6~)0":·,19: :'A.
Nov.24 WISCONSIN Sept. 15 at California LASAGNA II ,..., • ~ Sept. 29 IOWA SEAFOOD RISOTIO • sHELLSFLORENTINE 
"The Ital1an
PURDUE Oct. 6 FLORIDA STATE 

STUFFED FLOUNDER R . ,
Oct.13 KANSAS 1StOr8Dte
EGG PLANT PARMIGIANA
Sept. 15 WASHINGTON 

Oct. 20 at Notre Dame CAPPELLETTI I I 
PIZZA Special Weekend HOUr!i
Sept. 22 INDIANA STATE 

Oct. 27 at Texas Tech BANQUET ROOM Friday 4·12 Midnight 
Sept. 29 at Notre Dame 

Sat. 4·1 :00 am Oct. 6 MINNESOTA Sunday 4-9 pm 
Nov. 3 PITISBURGH 
Nov. 17 BOSTON 

Oct. 13 at Illinois (219) 232·4244
COLLEGE 

Oct. 20 OHIO STATE South Of Notre Dames' Golden Dome
Nov. 24 SYRACUSE 

Oct. 27 at Michigan State 1412 South Bend Avenue Dec. 1 at San Diego State 
Nov. 3 MICHIGAN Nov. 10 at Northwestern 
PITISBURGH Nov. 17 at Iowa Nov. 24 INDIANA 
STANFORD 

Irish Football '90 
_F_rid_a~y~·-S~ep~t_em__be_r_1_4_,_1_99_o______________________________________________________________________________________ page5 
Hentrich's footwork helps erase Irish mistakes 
By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 

When Jim Strong left Notre Dame to accept the head coaching position at UNLV in February, Lou Holtz assumed his offensive coordinator re­sponsibilities. Since then, Holtz has spent much time impress­ing on the minds of his offen­sive starters the importance of putting the ball in the endzone. 
But there are times when the system breaks down and potential scoring drives grind to a halt deep in enemy territory. It is at these times when Holtz returns to his drawing board and rubs out the offending offensive formation with his eraser, Craig Hentrich. 
"I look at Craig as the eraser," Holtz said of his sophomore placekicker and punter. "He is trying to erase the mistakes everybody else makes." 
Hentrich is coming off a sea-
Give your heart 
an extra · helping• 
Say no to high-fat foods. 
son in which he averaged 44.6 yards on 26 punts, a Notre Dame single-season record. Yet his surprisingly consistent field­goal kicking this preseason has generated talk of his potential to be the best all-around kicker in Notre Dame history. 
Hentrich has trouble believing he will even get the starting nod against Michigan on Saturday. 
"No one really knows (who will start)," the Godfrey, Ill., resident said of both positions. "It's still up for grabs. I'll pre­pare for both, so if I should lose out to someone I could concentrate more seriously on the other position." 
Hentrich handled all aspects of Notre Dame's kicking game throughout the mid-portion 'of last season, including punts, field goals, PATs and kickoffs. He converted 8 of 15 fieid-goal 
attempts (8 of 11 inside 40 
• 
£·~aAmeri~a.n Heart 
~ASSOCiation 


Craig Hentrlch 
yards) and 44 of 45 PATs before giving way to Billy Hackett (10­of 12 FGs, 8 of 11 PATs) for the last four games of the season. 
Hackett kicked a 53-yard field goal with the wind at his back in the Blue-Gold Game but has been erratic of late. Senior Jim Sexton is the only punter besides Hentrich on the roster, but he will be used mainly as a holder on field goals and PATs. 
"There's never any doubt he'll get the ball down," Hentrich says of Sexton. "He makes me a lot more confident." 
A potential problem arose when the Irish lost guard and long-snap specialist Tim Grunhard to the Kansas City Chiefs after last season. But Lance Johnson and Joe Allen have proved capable replace­ments during preseason prac­tice. 
"Lance Johnson has been just as good as Gruny," Hentrich said. "He gives me a long time to set up.~ 
Former professional football player and kicking expert Ray Pelfrey, who has worked with NFL punters Brian Hampton and Keith English. also has helped Hentrich set up. Hentrich first met Pelfrey dur­ing his freshman year in high school in Chattanooga, Tenn., and worked under his direction two years later in Reno, Nev. This summer, Hentrich joined Pelfrey at a summer camp in Illinois. 
"Ray has been a big help in my placekicking," said Hentrich. "He teaches a whole different technique. If you can master it, you can really im­prove your accuracy." 
Hentrich already possessed 
one of the strongest legs in football (as evidenced by his 60­yard punt into the wind in the 'Blue-Gold Game). but his placekicking was not accurate enough to satisfy Holtz. 
Pelfrey introduced Hentrich to a more downfield style of kicking which placed him straight over the ball. Hentrich. who likes to stand off to the side of the ball, assimilated Pelfrey's methods into his own technique. 
Hentrich 's newfound accuracy should all but guarantee him both the starting placekicking and punting duties for Saturday's Michigan opener. If history holds true, special teams play will have a signifi­cant impact on the outcome of the game. 
"Special teams is one-third of the game," says Hentrich. "They play a part in any game, so we take them very seri­ously." 
Pelfrey helped Hentrich elimi­nate his placekicking mistakes. On Saturday, Hentrich may be expected to erase everybody else's. 


Sundaes 
•lllnlnl Fudge • Bilek 1lp • Black I While • 11an1na Split • Blllana Split Nupolllln • Blllmd • Blutblny 
c( 
:E 
• Buttar Crumb • Bulllrflnger Fudge • Buttar Hntlt Blr • Bultar Pac111 • Buttar Raisin • Buttamul • But· llmut Fudge • Butllmotch • Cuhew Fudge • Cllhew Heath Crunch • Cherry • Cherry I Bit • Cherry Chocolall • Chocolate • Cherry Nougat • Chocolall Marshmallow • Chocolall Nul • Clown • Cluster • Coconut Caramel • Coconut Fudge • Coconut Fudge Bit • Coconut Fudge Nut • Creme de 

w 

Manthe • Creme de Mantht I Ore01 • Creme de Menthe 811 • Crunchy Creme de Mtntha • Crunchy Peanut Bulter • Dusty Road • Fudge Crumb • Fruit 
a: 
• Gr111hopper • Happy Birthday • Heallh • Heath Blr • Heath Bar Crunch I Bill • Hot Apple 1 Ia Mode 
0 
• Hot Candy Apple • Hoi Caramel • Hot Caramel Ap· Pll • Hot Fudge • M&M • Manhmallow • Marsh· 
mallow 811 • Mere~mallow. Fudge • Mmhmallow Fudga Delight • Mint Chip I Fudge • Mint Brownie w Dtllght • Mint MIM • Peach • Peanut Banana Nut • Peanut Bulter • Peanut Bultlf &Banana • Peanut0 Butllr Bit • Peanut Bulter Cookie • Peanut Buner Fudge Chip • Peanut Buner Heath • Peanut MIM • l'lun Fudge • Peppermint • Pappennlnt BH • Pep­-

permint Crumb • Papptnnlnt Fudgt • Plnnpple • Plnapple Nut • "-lsln Nut • Raisin Fudge Nut • Hot Rapberry Ripple • Red Rupberry • Raspberry • Rocky Mountain • Rocky Road • Snappy Turtle • Strawberry • Strawberry Palch • Slrlwberry-N·Fudge 
• Tin Roof 
Shakes 
Appll • B111ana • Blllana Crnm • B1nana Orange 
• 
Black Fomt • BllzDrtl • Blueberry • Blueberry Cmm • Butter Rllaln • Bullllmut Plus • llulllrlcofth 

• 
Bunerscotch 811 • Bultlmut Cooklt Plus • llllt­llllcotch Hntlt I Bill • Cindy Apple • caramel • c.-1 Appll• Cheny • Chilly Bits • Cbeny t1ouga1 

• 
Chocolall • Chocolate Chocolall Bit • Chocollle Bill I Cream • Chocolate Bill • Chocolate Cookie • Cbocotlle Mnhmallow • Chocolate Midnight • CllocoiMI l'llnul Pt111 • Chocolall Punut Buttar Bit 

• 
Coconut • Coconut Fudga • Coconut 111n1na Clum 

• 
Collte • Colin I Bill • Crelmslcle • Cremt De Mentha • Creme De Mtnlhe Bill • Crunchy Chocollll lln1111 • Crunch Fudge Plus • Crunchy Peanut But· llr • Hippy Birthday • Hnth Bar • Hlllth • Hot Fudge • Krlspy Bulterscotch • Krlapy Cherry Bit • Krllpy Chocolall Chocolall Bit • Krlspy Fudge • Jtllybllll • lemon • M&M • Marshmallow • Mmh· mallow Bit • Merehmallow Fudge • Mint Chocolall Bit• Mint Chocolate Bit Cookie • Mint Bit Plus • Mint MIM • Mocha • Mocha 811 • Ol'lllge • Orange Pineapple • Peach • Peach Melba • Peanut Bune. • Peanut Bulter Banana Nul • Ptanut Buller Bit • Peanut Butter Crazy • f'llllut Buller & Fudge • Pecan Fudge • hppermlnt • Peppermint Bit • Plnnpple 

• 
Plnnpple I Sherbet • "-lain I Fudge • Bl~~;k Rilpberry • Red Rllpberry • Rocky Road • llootbelr 

• 
Spanish • Spanlah 811 • Strawberry • Strawberry 


Cookie Banana • Vanilla 
Do Yourself a Flavor 
3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255·5525

:-----s·ur.-iiae·-----~ 
! 99¢ ! 
EXCLUSWE NOTRE DAME WGOS
: Buy any size sundae and : 1 receive a second one of the 1 
AVAILABLE ONLY ATTHENOTREDAMEGOLFSHOP
I same size for 99¢ 1 Ll Expires 10/1/90 1 
------------------------· 
It brin~ out the best in all of us:· 0 
Unitedway 

F,ollow the Fighting Irish .. .All year long! 
Subscribe to The Observer 
Get the latest coverage of Fighting Irish football from the only newspaper that covers the Irish every day. Get the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester or $40 a year. 
Name 

Send to:  
Address  The Observer  
City  State  Zip  P.O.Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

NOTRE DAME 
GOLF SHOP 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND SHOP HOURS 
FRIDAY 6:30AM-5:00PM SATURDAY 6:00AM UNTIL ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME SUNDAY 6:00AM-4:00PM 
SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT 
ENJOYFINE GOLF CWTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH 
Irish Football '90 
Call him Rick 
Watters finding new challenges as maturation process continues 
By KEN TYSIAC that direction the right way, you Associate Sports Editor start to get upset." If a similar incident occurs 
Please don't call him Ricky this season, Watters would re­any more. After all, he's not an act differently. underclassman, an uncut gem "I'd be all right. I'd just come needing to be carefully molded back and do the job the next before reaching his potential. time." He's a senior now. A captain. A For Rick Watters, the long, leader. And call him Rick, winding road to maturity has please. forced him to use his talents in· 
"I've always told people to call many different ways. He was me Rick, but I guess I've been recruited out Harrisburg, labelled Ricky, and it's sort of Penn.. as a tailback and fin­stuck. It doesn't bother me too ished second on the team in much, though." rushing his freshman year with 
Irish tailback Rick Watters has 373 yards on 69 carries. Irish grown quite a bit since he faced Head Coach Lou Holtz thought Michigan in Notre Dame Watters would be a good re­Stadium two years ago as a ceiver, however, so as a sophomore. In that game, a 19-sophomore he replaced gradu­17 Irish victory, he showcased ating Heisman Trophy winner his athletic skill early, returning Tim Brown at flanker. a punt 81 yards for a touchdown in the first quarter Although he was Notre Dame's 
leading receiver in the 1988 'Hopefully I can make championship season, Watters All-American or again switched positions as a 
junior. Holtz returned him to
something like that, 
tailback, where he was more
but like I said, first in 
comfortable, and Watters
my mind is the team 
carried 118 times for 791 yards
and us winning. We 

and 10 touchdowns. He earned Senior tailback Ricky Watters eludes cornerback Mike Lalli during a preseason scrimmage. Watters is Notrejust want to gef back honorable mention All-America Dame's top returning ground gainer in 1990 following the retirement of quarterback Tony Rice. tn the race and honors from The Sporting News 
the ball about 15 times a game

hopefully win the and Football News. He had ing out of the backfield and get holds the record for the longest 
Nationar Cham­finally found his niche. open. He's become a great re­punt return in Irish history (97 they will be much more produc­"(Switching positions) was ceiver coming out of the back­yards in 1989 vs. SMU). This tive than if one of them carried
pionship this year.' 

field." year Watters will turn those 30 times a game. We are trying
kind of hard on me. It was just Watters concedes that his ex­duties over to junior Raghib to get maximum productivityIn the third quarter, though, really tough to keep up men­
perience at flanker helped him, Ismail, a pretty good return out of the tailback position, notwith Notre Dame clinging to a tally, and emotionally it was just maximum productivity out
13-7 lead, he fumbled Mike tough too, because I'd always but one gets the impression man in his own right. Gillette's punt and the thought of myself as a tailback. that he still would have pre­Meanwhile, although he will of the players." 
ferred to play tailback his start at tailback, Watters is The fact that Watters will only 
Wolverines recovered on the Coming out of high school and grade school I'd always been sophomore year. slated to split time with fellow carry the ball 15 times per
Irish 14. As Michigan drove for 

senior Tony Brooks. The Irish game is important. Watters is a
the go-ahead touchdown, used as a tailback or a quar­Watters lost his composure on terback. I never, ever thought of "In a way switching positions coaches hope that by alternat­Heisman-caliber athlete, but the sideline as teammates tried being a wideout, especially on a helped me because it let people ing Watters and Brooks they there are so many good Irish 
running team, which is mainly see all of my abilities and all will ensure that a there will backs that he won't get enough to console him. He knew he had the things I could do on kick never be a tired tailback lined carries to build up the stafisticshurt the team, and it appeared what we are, a running team," Watters says. returns, recieving, running, up behind sophomore quarter­needed to impress Heisman as though he was holding back blocking, everything," admits back Rick Mirer. voters.
tears. 

Watters. "So that was pretty "That bothered me a lot in the
"From a player's standpoint, The experience as a receiver has helped Watters impro~e. good, if I should go on to the "When you run out of the !­early part of my career,"you get upset when you don't next level, but it was also kind formation as much as we do, Watters says. "Sometimes it still do the things you expect to do," though. 

"He always had a tremendous of hard on this level, because I you want to have keep your sneaks up in my mind a littleWatters said. "Before the sea­
was always switching posi­players healthy and fresh," bit, but I gave up on that (the
son you have these goals and set of hands," says Assistant Coach Peter Vaas, who works tions." Vaas says. "Tony and Ricky are Heisman) a long time ago. I 
things you want to do, and then 

when you don't achieve those with the running backs. "Only In the past, Watters has re­both quality running backs, and now he can fmd the hole com-turned punts as well. In fact, he we feel that if they both carry see WATTERS I page 7 
goals and you're not going in 


It's been nine years now, but former Notre Dame football coach 
1.... Gerry Faust remembers it like it f••l , was yesterday. ~ 
The Irish had defeated LSU 27-9 .. in Faust's debut. The former coach ;t_·~ ,.. .· 
of Cincinnati Moeller High School ' ·· ··.• · · · ·_· ·. couldn't have written a better · ·~I\;/ ·. ·. script for his debut. Greg Guffey 
"I remember sitting in the Sports Editor 
lockerroom before practice the_______ week of the Michigan game," Faust reflected earlier this week. "One of our assistants came in and said that AP and UPI had just voted us the top team in the country. "I turned to Jim Higgins (one of Faust's assistants at both Moeller and Notre Dame) and said, 'You know 
Jim, we're in a unique situation. We ended up number one in high school football and now we're number one in college football. That has probably 
never happened before.' "I told him we should probably just hang it up then. How true those words might have been." 
Faust, who had compiled an incredible 174-17-2 record in 18 years at Moeller, never returned to number one at Notre Dame. He finished his career with a 30-26-1 record. a .535 winning percentage. 
He had moments of incredible highs and moments of devastating lows. His Irish teams lost 17 games by 7 or fewer points. He faced criticism from a variety of 

Faust going forward, but enjoys looking back 
sources, from writers to students to alumni, yet he maintained a strong belief that he would someday make it, that it would work out in the end. 
"When you're a football coach, you have to deal with criticism," Faust said. "I was able to deal with it because I wanted to be there. The pressure didn't bother me." 
Faust resigned after the 1985 season, and Notre Dame hired former Minnesota coach Lou Holtz to replace him. In four seasons, Holtz has guided the Irish to one national championship and 24 victories in their last 25 games. 
"I think that Lou Holtz took over the program when it was faltering, when the kids weren't believing," Faust said. "He got them winning, believing again." 
Now, Faust is in the fifth year of a major building program at Akron, a team which just recently joined Division I. 
At Notre Dame in the early 1980s, between 300-500 people attended the Friday luncheon before home games. Before his frrst home game at Akron in 1986, Faust was greeted by a throng of 23 people at the Friday luncheon. 
He is 24-21-1 in those four years, but that's not the important thing. The important thing is that he's building, coaching football, interacting with people, doing the things that Gerry Faust must do to survive. 
"I'm finally starting to have fun here," Faust said. "Things are starting to come together. We're still a fledgling program. I was feeling my way at Notre Dame. I feel a little more comfortable now because I've learned a lot more football." 
He recently signed a new contract and it seems a safe bet that he will remain at Akron for awhile. He has changed jobs just three times in his football ca­reer. 
"We're really happy here," Faust said. "I like the people and I like the community. I just love to work with people and help them become better people." 
Faust may be happy as the coach at Akron, but the talk always returns to Notre Dame, his glory days. He still has the same excitement, the same enthusiasm that he came to Notre Dame with in November of 1980. 
"It was a great opportunity," he said. "It was really a dream come true. I think anybody who has ever gone to Notre Dame or worked at Notre Dame, there's always something special there. A part of you always stays there. Time has really flown. I can't believe it's been that long." 
The Zips are 2-0 in 1990, including a win last weekend over big rival Kent State. Faust knows he has a long way to go, especially with back-to-hack games at Rutgers, Florida and Navy. 
But someday he might get there, and there might even be a game with Notre Dame. But that might be a hard sell to Faust. 
"I would never want to play Notre Dame because I could never run out of that tunnel onto the wrong side of the field," Faust said. 
Irish Football '90 
Friday, September 14, 1990 page 7 
Cerrato reaches out and touches Mirer 
A call from the 1988 Fiesta Bowl sidelines helped land latest Notre Dame quarterback 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
Rick Mirer will receive the call to start as the Irish quarterback this Saturday, but if it weren't for an earlier call made from the sidelines of the Fiesta Bowl two and a half years ago, the sopho­more could be playing this season's opener on the maize and blue side of the field. 
Notre Dame recruiting coordinator Vinnie Cerrato telephoned Mirer during the 1988 bowl game and asked Mirer if he'd like to attend school the next year with the soon-to-be national champions. 
"I couldn't believe it," said Mirer, who had already spoken with Cerrato about playing at Notre Dame. "He was on the field and told me what play they were going to call next. When I looked at the TV I saw he was right." 
Cerrato's persistence exemplifies one of the reasons why Mirer chose Notre Dame over the many other schools that were pursuing him his senior year of high school. 
'People expect big things. You can't make mistakes. I'm sure I'll feel more of the pressure on Saturday, but it should go away after the first few plays. It's just a game like any other.' 
"He knew it would mean a lot to me," 
says Mirer, who viewed it as typical of 
Notre Dame's interest in him as a per­
son, not just a potential starting quar­
terback. He claims the people at Notre 
Dame, along with excellent academics 
and athletics, are what encouraged him 
to choose the school over the team he 
grew up loving, the Michigan 
Wolverines. · "You don't have the same caliber of 
people at other schools as you do here," 
says Mirer. "You have some, but not as 
many. The people here are so used to 
doing things right, whether it's studying 
or athletics." 
Mirer adds that, even though he grew up just 25 miles from South Bend in Goshen, it wasn't until he attended Notre Dame that he felt the school's deep traditions and immense popularity. 
"I never realized how important Notre Dame is to the whole country," Mirer said. "People from everywhere follow us. It's spooky." 
And with the entire nation looking on, Mirer has become the focal point for the 1990 Irish football season. With only 36 minutes of playing time during his freshman year, Mirer's inexperience has been the subject of college football fans around the United States. 
But the 6-3, 205-pounder says that while he feels the pressure, he refuses to let it affect his play. 
"People expect big things." he said. "You can't make mistakes. I'm sure I'll feel more of the pressure on Saturday, but it should go away after the first few plays. It's just a game like any other." 
That type of perspective should help ease tensions for the young quarterback who is already being compared to Joe Montana by some of his teammates. 
"I think that's mostly because we're the same number (3)," said Mirer. "I would love to be able to do what he did, but I never claimed to be Joe Montana." 
Montana even sent Mirer a picture and a letter this summer, telling the quarterback to "take care of my num­ber." 
Some of the comparisons may be due to Mirer's impressive showing in spring practice. Only one of his 140-plus passes was intercepted all spring, and he was named offensive co-MVP of the Blue­Gold game. In that outing, Mirer completed 23 of 41 passes for 303 yards, playing for both teams after Jake Kelchner broke his collarbone in the first period. 
Kelchner's injury, and subsequent 
dismissal from the university for aca­
demic reasons, ensured that Mirer would 
be the starting quarterback for Notre 
Dame this year. And while Mirer could 
not be happier with the job, the lack of 
Irish quarterbacks adds another degree 
of pressure to Mirer's role. The only 
other quarterbacks on the team are 
freshmen. 
"I really wish Jake was here to push 
me," said Mirer, adding that he realizes 
the Irish will be in a precarious position 
if he is injured now. Mirer still harbors 
fresh memories of what it was like to be 
a freshman back-up. 
"I was definitely not ready right at first," said Mirer. "You've got to have a feel for what it's going to be like when you go out there. Now I know. Hopefully, I'll stay healthy." 
The times he did get into the games last year are indicative of how the Irish offense should look this season. In eight games, Mirer completed 15 of 30 passes for 180 yards. Although he is quick by quarterback standards (he runs the 40 in 4.6), Mirer ran only 12 times for 32 yards. Everyone is looking for the Irish to pass the ball much more than they did the past three seasons under Tony Rice, but Mirer contends that Notre Dame will still rely heavily on the running attack. 
"We're definitely going to throw more than we did last year," said Mirer, even if it's not right away. "We'll work into (passing) more each game, so there's more of a balance once we get going." 
Head Coach Lou Holtz is more con­cerned with how Mirer conducts the of­fense than he is with the quarterback's passing stats. At his press conference on Tuesday, Holtz described Mirer's role in the first few games. 
"I expect him to be a fine quarter­back," Holtz said, "but by the same to­ken, my realistic objective in the first couple ballgames is just to get him to calm down and be himself." 
Mirer realizes what Holtz expects~ 
"My job is to keep the flow and the unity, to keep us moving downfield," said Mirer. "I have to be able to adjust when things go wrong and play it smart, safe. I'm not trying to do too much." 
Until then Mirer will rely on an expe­rienced backfield of speedy running backs. 
"I'm confident having them back there," he said. "You know Rocket's going to run past people, Tony Brooks is going to run over people and Ricky Watters is going to run around people." 
More suspect is the offensive line that will have to stop defenders from flying in Mirer's face. While Holtz has continually pointed out the squad's injuries and lack of experience, Mirer says he's confident their protection will be more than adequate. 
"If there's a weakness in our offense, it's me, and I like to think I can take care of that," he says. "I can make sure there's no mistakes." 
Holtz is also concerned about the leadership of the Irish offense, especially when both the quarterback and the offensive line are relatively young. 
"When you have an offensive line that is veteran and experienced, they will provide the leadership, and this is what happened when Tony Rice was inserted into the starting lineup at Pittsburgh," he said. "This is the first time we've ever had a young quarterback and a young offensive line." 
Mirer says that although he is only a sophomore, he feels comfortable as the leader on the field. As the offense has progressed, Mirer feels his teammates' confidence in him has increased. 
"At every level of play, the quarterback has to be a leader, so I'm used to it," says Mirer. "I think I can handle it." 
While Mirer feels the offense has ironed out many of their kinks and is improving, he thinks the defense has controlled fall practices. But he views their domination as good preparation for the talented squads he'll face in the upcoming weeks. 


"I wish things had gone smoother," he says, "but I think we're coming around. We're timing it outjust right." 
'My lob is to keep the flow and fhe unity, to keep us moving downfield. I have to be aole to adjust when things go wrong and P,lay it smart, safe. I'm not trymg to do too much.' 
Facing the Wolverines in his first start will be especially memorable for Mirer, who grew up knowing Bo Schembechler and rooting for his teams. Rated the best high school quarterback in the nation by Parade magazine, and named to the first squad of the USA Today All-American team, Mirer was heavily recruited in 1988, but eventually narrowed his choices to Notre Dame and Michigan. Both sought the superstar who passed for 3,973 yards and 30 touchdowns his senior year. But although Mirer's father, Ken, is from Ypsilanti, Mich., just outside Ann Arbor, and served as an usher in Michigan Stadium as a boy, Mirer chose 
Watters 
continued from page 6 

realize that I'm just going to play my game and do the best I can, and if I get it, it will be because of hard work and determination, and just playing. It won't be something I'm thinking about. 
"I just realize I'm not in a position to win it or anything like that. Hopefully I can make All-American or something like that, but like I said, first in my mind the Irish. 
"I'd be excited no matter who we were playing," said Mirer, "but since it's Michigan it will be that much more so. We've been working ever since January for this." 
Although Mirer's nerves may act up a little on Saturday, he says nothing could be more intimidating than his first game last year, the Kick-Off Classic at the Meadowlands in New Jersey. 
"That's the biggest stadium I've ever played in," said Mirer. "You go out there and suddenly see your face flashed up on the huge screen." 
But Mirer was comfortable once he joined the action. 
"It's real quiet on the field," he said. "Everyone is nervous. Everyone wants to make sure they don't screw up." 
Once Mirer takes that first snap on Saturday, he'll have his chance to con­front all the comparisons and questions. Although he'll escape the hype while he's on the field, he realizes interest in his play will continue and that it might not be a bad sign. 
"I hope the attention gets worse," Mirer says, "because that means I'm doing something right." 
is the team and us winning. We just want to get back in the race and hopefully win the National Championship this year." 
A National Championship this year would put an exclamation mark on what has been a great career for Watters. A national title, and not a Heisman Trophy is at the top of Watters's list of goals. 
"It has to be. As captain of the team, as a leader of a great bunch of guys like that, you can't think of yourself, you have to think of the team and what we can do here. We have a great chance of winning the National Championship, and perhaps we'll go doV:O as legends." 
Irish Football '90 
page 8 
MICHIGAN ROSTER 
!  
1  Derrick Alexander  WR  
2  Walter Smith  WR  
3  Jim Risner  PK  
3  Tripp Welborne  ss  
4  Eric Bush 1  FS  
5  Coleman Wallace  DB  
6  Peter Elezovic  PK  
6  Todd Plate  DB  
7  Alfie Burch  SE/DB  
8  Ron Buff  TB  
8  Dwayne Ware  DB  
9  Eduardo Azcona  p  
9  Doug Musgrave  OB  
10  John Albertson  PK  
10  Todd Collins  OB  
12  Ricky Powers  RB  
13  WilburOdom  OB  
14  KenSollom  OB  
14  Joshua Wuerfel  PKIP  
15  Doug Cohen  OLB  
15  Elvis Grbac  OB  
16  Nate Holdren  OB  
16  Tony Thomas  WR  
17  Robert Harbour  OB/P  
17  Otis Williams  DB  
18  Matt Brady  WR  
18  Chris Stapleton  p  
19  John Ellison  SE  
19  Brian Foster  DB  
20  Corwin Brown  CB  
20  Terry Looby  DB  
21  Desmond Howard  FL  
22  Lance Dottin  DB  
23  Leviticus Johnson  WR  
24  Dennis Washington  RB  
25  Jon Vaughn  TB  
26  David Key  DB  
27  Vada Murray  FS  
28  Allen Jefferson  TB  
28  Deon Johnson  DB  
29  David Ritter  FS  
30  Jesse Johnson  RB  
30  John Milligan  ILB  
31  Joel Blankenship  DB  
31  Kevin Owen  FL  
32  Jarrod Bunch  FB  
32  Leon Morton  DB  
33  Juan Kemp  RB  
33  Shawn Watson  RB  
34  Yale VanDyne  SE  
35  Barry Kelley  FB  
36  Steve Morrison  ILB  
36  Ken Spencer  RB  
37  Erick Anderson  ILB  
38  J.. O. Carlson  PK  
38  Dave Henkel  DB  
39  Curt Mallory  ILB  
39  Shawn Watson  RB  
40  Burnie Legette  FB  
41  Rusty Fichtner  LB  
41  Greg McThomas  FB/OLB  
43  Pat Maloney  DB  
44  Mike Nadlicki  FB  
45  Brad Townsend  OLB  
46  Shawn Peoples  DB  
48  Dave Dobreff  LB  
49  Chris Bohn  ILB  
50  Marcus Walker  ILB  
51  Steve Everitt  c  
51  WilliamStuek  OLB  
52  Eric Graves  MG  
53  Joe Barry  ILB  
54  Paul Manning  OG/C  
55  Gannon Dudlar  DL  
56  Michael Maloney  OLB  
56  John Woodlock  OG  

"A Bit Of Italy" 
VERA PIZZA· MOSTACCIOLI•ITALIAN SUBS •FRESHLY PREPARED SALADS Open Far Lunch 8 Dinner 2446 Mir•cle une 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTRE 
(across from Herilage Cablevision) Eat-In or ~Out 11011.-liiUIIS. 11:30-e-.311Beer& Wine 258•4911 Fll.11o»1DP.II.;SAl.4:30-10P.II. 

Serving ND/SMC Students for 25 years 
-
rCOLONiALPANCAK'E"HOUSE ;
I APPLE PANCAKE .I 
1 SAVE s1.00 '1 EXP. 10-31-90 off 
~ 9I
COLONiALPAN'CAKEHOUSE 
ANY CREPES :
I 1 I SAVE s1.00 II LE~-~32:,90_ Effj· 

Friday, September 14, 1990 
NOTRE DAME ROSTER 
1 Todd Lyght CB ?A 2 Craig Lanigan FB 29 3 Rick Mirer OB 30 4 Dorsey Levens TB 31 5 Rodney Culver FB 32 5 Mike Lall CB 33 6 Jerome Bettis FB 33 7 Andre Jones OLB 34 8 Clint Johnson WR/OB 34 8 Jerry Bodine CB 35 9 Jeff Burris TB 36 1 0 Adrian Jarrell FL 37 11 B.J. Hawkins OB 38 11 Rick Lozano ILB 39 12 Ricky Watters TB 40 13 Tom Carter DB 41 13 Man Johnson FUOB 41 14 Ray Griggs SE 42 14 Rob Cataldo CB 43 15 Kevin McDougal OB 44 16 Jim SeX1on 45
p 17 Shawn Davis SE 46 17 Chris Moscardelli SE 47 18 Billy Hackett PK 48 18 Trevor Moriarty SE 49 19 Thomas Bowers FS 50 20 Martin Scruggs SE 51 20 Lamar Guillory OB 52 21 Rod Smith CB 53 22 Dean Lytle RBIOLB 54 23 Walter Boyd FB 55 24 Rusty Setzer TB 56 25 Raghib Ismail FL 57 26 Greg Davis ss 59 27 George Poorman FS 60 

rraig Hentrich John Covington Nick Smith Demetrius DuBose Willie Clark Greg Lane Chet Hollister Kenny Spears Andy Smith Ryan Mihalko Donn Grimm Scott Kowalkowski Randy Scianna Marvin Robinson Tony Brooks Reggie Brooks Rob Merkle Michael Stonebreaker Jim Flanigan LeShane Saddler Devon McDonald Brian Ratigan Pete Bereich John Farren Anthony Peterson Chris Zorich Stuart Tyner Tim Ryan Winston Sandri 
Jim Kinsherf Mike Heldt Oliver Gibson Bernard Mannelly Lance Johnson Brian Shannon 
PKIP 
DB 
ILB 
ILB 
RB 
DB 
FS 
FB 
FB 
FB 
ILB 
OLB 
ILB 
DB 
TB 
CB 
OLB 
LB 
ILB 
DB 
OLB 
ILB 
ILB 
ILB 
ILB 
DT 
DT 
OG 
OT 
C 
C 
ILB 
OG 
c 
OG 
57 
58 
59 60 61 62 
64 
65 66 67 68 69 70 
71 
72 
73 
74 75 76 77 78 
79 
80 81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86 
88 88 89 
90 
91 92 93 94 
95 96 
97 
99 
99 
Shawn Miller Bill Schaffer Alex Marshall Sylvester Stanley Jason Kendrick Mike Lyons Brian Wallace Neil Simpson Steve Rekowski Marc Milia Joe Cocozza Man Elliot Rob Doherty Mike Lewis Doug Skene Tom Dohring Troy Plate Greg Skrepenak Todd Martens Ron Zielinski Dean Dingman Tony Henderson Marc Burkholder Allen Woodard John Jaecklin Dave Diebolt Dan Jokisch Charlie Stumb Martin Davis Tony McGee Julian Swearengin Gordon Lara Nine! Aghakhan Man Dyson Mike Evans Eric Knuth 
T.J. Osman Bobby Powers Eric Traupe Chris Hutchinson Kevin Hudding Randy Stark 
OG OG 
OLB DT LB MG OT OLB DT 
ClOG 
OG 
OGIC 
OL OT 
OG 
OT OT OT 
DT OT OG MG TE WR TE TE TEIWR OLB OLB 
TE WR TE DT 
OLB DT MG MG LB 
ILB DT TE OLB 
61 62 65 66 67 68 69 70 72 
73 
74 75 76 78 
79 
80 81 
82 
83 84 85 86 87 89 90 91 
93 94 
95 96 
97 
98 
Tim Ruddy 
Chet Lacheta Undsay Knapp Todd Norman Darryl Wodecki George Marshall George Williams Mike McGlinn Joe Allen Justin Hall Mirko Jurl<ovic Aaron Taylor Gene McGuire Jordan Halter Bret Hankins Oscar McBride Eric Jones 
William Pollard Tony Smith lrv Smith Erik Simien Derek Brown Lake Dawson Karmeeleyah McGill Brian Hamilton Todd Stoker Bob Dahl Mike Callan Junior Bryant Marc deManigold Bryant Young Shawn Smith 

OL 
OG 
OT DT OT 
DT DT OL OT OT 
OG 
OL 
OT 
OG 
TE DT SE SE TE OLB TE WR OLB DT TE DT DT 
DT DT OLB OLB 
TAILGATING? 

Banquet room and complete menu available-We '11 be open after ND victory over Michigan! 
MARIGOLD
~~~?;;_;:;:.~ 
MARKET
~~ 
BE 
COOLER 
THAN 
MIAMI 

... WITH THE PORTABI.E 



KOLDWAVE PERSONAL COOLER! 
• 
Installs in minutes 

• 
Fully portable w/ easy roll casters 

• 
Cools and dehumi­difies. 

• 
6,000 BTU's: Runs on standard 115-V power. 

• 
Great for apts. 

•
Comes complete w/ 


exhaust duct adapt. kit. 
*Moves from room to room for cool com­fort anywhere. 
*Provides cooling for 
lET US PREPARE YOUR
impossible areas. CR Campbell 
TAilhATE PICNIC. so YOU 
& Sons1Mc. 

CAN ENJoy THE GAME!
3010 Mlohawalca Ave. 2&7-1566
o-..._.. _ _.. 

GRAPE.~CLEVELAND 272·1922
... <ooo ,.,,.,. """"c...._ 
Take your heart to court. 

~-1 ..•· 
Or on a bike ride.
.. 
---=~'-----' Or out for a jog. Whatever your sport, vigorous exercise can help keep your heart healthy. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
GO IRISH 
Beat Michigan 
BLUEBERRY PANCAKES ON SALE THRU SEPT. 
OPEN AT6AM DAILY 

~~~~~~~~~------------­
u.a. 31lferdlta aoiCiaad 
(Aawl...._ Tile HoUdayla.D) 2.n,.7433 Just North Of Cam us 

Irish Football '90 
Friday, September 14, 1990 page 9 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, Bill Bilinski of the South Bend Tribune and some well­
n 

known figure in the Notre Dame 
.

community predict the outcomes of the week's major college 
i,__ 

I li.football games. Records are -,j I compiled as to how each person Greg Guffey Frank Pastor KenTyslac Scott Brutocao Chris Cooney Bill Bilinski Jim Daves does against the spread. In other Sports Editor Associate Associate Assistant Assistant South Bend Assoc. Sports words, it isn't enough to pick the 0-0-0 Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Tribune Info. Director winner of a given game. The .000 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 person must pick the winner Last week: .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 and give the underdog points. 0-0 Last week: Last week: Last Week: Last week: Last week: Last week: 
0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 Colorado 3.5 over ILLINOIS Buffaloes Buffaloes lllini Buffaloes lllini Buffaloes Buffaloes Ohio St. 7 over BOSTON COL. Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Clemson 10 over MARYLAND Tigers Tigers Terrapins Terrapins Tigers Terrapins Tigers Auburn 10 over MISSISSIPPI Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers BVU 14 over Washington St. Wash. State Wash. State BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU OKLAHOMA 5 over Pittsburgh Panthers Panthers Sooners Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers ALABAMA 2.5 over Florida Crimson Tide Gators Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Gators Gators UCLA 5.5 over STANFORD Bruins Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Bruins Mich. St. 3 over SYRACUSE Spartans Spartans Spartans Orangemen Orangemen Spartans Spartans VIRGINIA 23 over Navy Midshipmen Midshipmen Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Midshipmen Cavaliers Miami 23 over CALIFORNIA Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Bears USC 13 over Penn State Nittany Lions Trojans Trojans Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Trojans Trojans Arizona 16 over NEW MEXICO Wildcats Wildcats Lobos Lobos Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats 
NOTRE DAME 4 over Michigan Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

The Observer is always looking for new faces. 

FSU takes over college poll 


Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. 
Fullerton State in its home
Observer Staff Report
Join the Ad department or work in the Production 
opener, is third. 
aspect of the paper. There are many ways that 
The Florida State Seminoles Michigan, which also has yet took over the top spot vacated to play a game this season,
you can contribute to your paper. 
by Miami in the National moved up one spot to number 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. 

College Sportswriters Football six in the poll, while the loss to Poll. Brigham Young dropped Miami
You'll be glad you did. 

into a tie for fifth with USC. 
The Seminoles leapfrogged Tennessee, which defeated the Hurricanes, who lost to Mississippi State Saturday to Brigham Young 28-21 on raise its record to 2-0-1, is sev­Saturday, and Notre Dame to enth, and Brigham Young claim the number-one ranking. moved up ten spots from its Florida State received 10 1/2 number 18 position in last 

first place votes to Notre week's poll, to number eight. Dame's 8 1/2. Colorado, which squeaked by The poll, organized and Stanford by a score of 21-17 on 
founded by staff members of Thursday, is ninth, and The Observer, will appear Virginia, coming off its first weekly in college newspapers victory ever over Clemson in 30 across the country. More than tries, rounds out the top 10. 40 writers will eventually cast votes in the poll when classes Nebraska leads ofT the second 
begin at their respective 10, followed by Texas A&M, schools. Clemson, Pittsburgh, which defeated Boston College Florida State finished just 10 Saturday to raise its record to points ahead of the Irish, who 2-0, and Arkansas. Oklahoma, will play their first game of the which pummelled UCLA season against Michigan on Saturday in the Bruins' home September 15. Auburn, which opener, Ohio State, Illinois, received three first-place votes Washington and Arizona round
PATTirS 

after soundly defeating out the top 20. 
GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 

DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 1 THE VARSITY SHOP 1
·-----------------------~ 
3602 Grape ~ • Mishawaka; JN. I I ~5525 
i $2 OFF ! 
The National College Sportswriters Football Poll with first place votes and wins and losses in parentheses and total 
points  
.1. Florida State (1 0.5) (1·0)  434.5  
2. Notre Dame (8.5) (0·0)  424.5  
3. Auburn (3) (1-0)  404  
4. Michigan (0-0)  355  
5. Miami (0·1),  323  
5. (tie) USC (1-0)  323  
7. Tennessee (2-0-1)  296  
8. Brigham Young (1) (2·0)  293  
9. Colorado (1-0-1)  280  
1o. Virginia (2-0)  276  
11 . Nebraska (2-0)  275  
12. Texas A&M (1·0)  201  
13. Clemson (1-1)  160  
14. Pittsburgh (2-0)  148  
15. Arkansaas (0-0)  136  
16. Oklahoma (1·0)  104  
17. Ohio State (1·0)  80  
18. Illinois (0·1)  63  
19. Washington (1·0)  52  
20. Arizona (1-0)  35  

Also Receiving Votes: Alabama 31, Houston 28, Florida 27, Texas 21, Michigan State 17. California 6. Arizona State 6, UCLA 4, Columbia 4, Fresno State 3, Air Force 3, South Carolina 2, Duke 2, Louisiana State 1, Toledo 1, Georgia Tech 1, Southern Mississippi 1 . Writers from the following schools participated in the poll: Arizona State, Ball State, Brown, Colorado, Columbia. Florida State, Houston, Illinois. Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana State. Michigan, Nebraska, North Carolina State, Notre Dame, Penn State, Purdue, Southern Methodist. Syracuse. Texas, Utah, West Virginia. 
-
Good health 


starts with
1 Any Haircut I 
: (regularly $8) : 
-
good

I I 
I Edison Rd at S.R. 23 277-0057 exo 9/30/90 1 
nutrition. 
~-----------------------1 
Dinner for 2 
Save Over I I
$250 
I 
Piclc any two Gourmet Sandwiches I 1wo 'Garden Salads, plus your choice 'or I r-r,.nch Fries or Omon Rings and 2 I Mmi-Sundaes. I 
Fo~8 99 
Expires 10/1/90 



Irish Football '90 
page 10 

Moeller succeeds legend, looks to establish identity 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
Would you like to succeed a legend? 
Gary Moeller, who makes his debut as head coach for Michigan Saturday against Notre Dame, has a tall order in front of him in succeeding Bo Schembechler, the winningest coach in Wolverine football his­tory. 
Schembechler, who departed from the Wolverines Jan. 2 to become President of the Detroit Tigers, compiled a 194-48-5 record, 143-24-3 in the Big Ten, in 21 seasons at Michigan. 
His teams were ranked in the national top ten 16 times and appeared in 10 Rose Bowls. The only thing Schembechler seemed not to have done was win the national championship. 
Inevitably,· Moeller will have to deal with the comparisons to this Big Ten conquerer and Rose Bowl club member. 
"I don't think it {the compar­isons) will ever stop," said Moeller, who spent most of his coaching career as an assistant to Schembechler. "I think in a couple of years it will slow down. You get tired of it {but) when you're compared to Bo Schembechler, in many ways it can make you proud." 
Moeller has cause to be proud. When Schembechler an­nounced his resignation, he personally recommended Moeller for the job. Calling Moeller the "right man to lead this (Michigan) football pro­gram into the 1990's," Schembechler praised his right­hand man's coaching ability and personal attributes that made him the obvious choice for successor. 
And Bo knows Moeller. He has had Moeller as an assistant coach for 21 seasons, and any­time an assistant works under a head coach that long, his philosophies have to be some­what compatible. 
"The philosophies I've had, I've just reinforced those (as head coach)," said Moeller. "It's the kind of program I grew up with. I believe in the philosophies of Bo Schembechler and Woody Hayes. I want to keep this pro­gram where it has a strong foundation." 
After playing football for Woody Hayes at Ohio State as a center and linebacker, Moeller graduated from college in 1962 and coached high school teams until he joined Schembechler at Miami {Ohio) in 1967 to coach the freshman team. 
When Bo moved on to Michigan in 1969, he took Moeller with him, placing him in charge of defensive ends. Moeller was promoted to de­fense coordinator in 1973, and his 1974 and '76 squads led the nation in scoring defense. 
Following the 1976 season, Moeiffir was named head coach at Illinois, where he spent the 1977-1979 seasons and com­piled a 6-24-3 record. In 1980, he was back to coaching under Schembechler at Michigan. 

Named defensive coordinator and assistant head coach in 1982, Moeller brought back his defensive magic, and in 1985 his squad led the nation again in scoring defense. By 1987 he assumed offensive coordinator duties as well as assistant coach. 
Now in 1990 Moeller's first game is against Notre Dame, a team that has lost only one game in two years. It's the be­ginning of another era for Michigan, the Moeller era, which could last anywhere from one game to 20 years. 
"It's scary but exciting," said Moeller to The Sporting News. "I think you'll always feel the pressure. But how many guys get the opportunity to coach at Michigan? I've got a good situ­ation here. I'm very fortunate." 


.~·vio·eo··wAREtiou·sE:··iN·c:···~ 
~  1 hour quality photo developing  ~  
•:  • full video store with blank tapes and video accessories  •:  
•  • video players available for rent  •  
:•  • conveniently located behind Campus View Apartments  :•  
:  2022 South Bend Avenue  :  

e South Bend, IN 46637 •
I : 272-4848 : 
i I 
I 
:......................................................... 


11f/111LI18LEliT 

1631 E. Edison SL At the comer of Edison & SL Rd. 23. Just off N.D. campus. 


Game Day Stand Located at the comer of Edison and Ivy road across from the tailgate fields (every home game). 
= .... 
-
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
~ir Richard» 
HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
417 DtXtEWAY NORTH !ROSELAND) 
277-<>734 


501 N Niles Avenue South Bend. lndidna 46614 • [219] 232-4414 

Roseland Shell 415 Dixie Way Sotith So. Bend, IN 46637 Phone t 272-3751 
-
UTD 
Mail Order, Inc. 219-633-5349 (24 Hours) Visa/Mastercard Accepted. 
52303 Emmons Road 219-272-9780 
TAKE NO PHIS ­

© 1990 Game Day Promotions. All Rights Reserved. Game Day Promotions and PBM, INC are members of the Knock-off Coalition. 

----~--------~---~­
I. 
. ::;;. 
} 
WELCOME 
BACK 
STUDENTS 
Now Open: 

Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Five T.V.s 

*Basketball Shoot 
*Two Dart Boards 
*Pizzas/ Sandwiches/ Appetizers 
* 
DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 

* 
Conveniently LocatedJust Off Campus 

* 
Come Watch the Irish Beat Michigan! 




·-------------------· 
: SNEAKERS ; 
I I 
i$1.00oFFi 
:  any large pizza  :  
I  (not valid with specials)  I  
:  expires 9/30/90  :  

Located in University Lanes -1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 




