
VOL. XXIII NO. 32 TUESDAY , OCTOBER 9, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By MARK CAWLEY 
News Writer 
Hesolved: government censor­ship of artistic expression is an undesirable infringement on the freedom of speech. 
This is the topic which Notre 
Dame's debate team must both 
advocate and criticize through­
out the semester. With such a 
controversial proposal ahead, 
the Irish debaters are prepar­
ing for an intense season. 
The thirty-membnr team, un­
der the leadership of varsity 
debaters .John Albers, Matt 
Salzman, Chris Kozoll, and 
Valerie Renegar, has already 
participated in two debates. 
Some of the novice debaters attended a novice tournament at Wheaton College in Illinois last weekend. They had an outstanding tournament and captured a number of awards. Scot Graydon and Richard 

DeBartolo 
Observer Staff Report 

Forbes magazine released its 
list of the 400 richest people in 
America Monday and two Notre 
Dame benefactors were in­
cluded among the top 50. 

Walter Annenberg, of 
Wynnewood, Pa., was listed as 
number 31 on the list with an 
estimated fortune of $1.65 bil­
lion. Annenberg, 82, amassed 
his fortune in the publishing in­
dustry. 

llis support of Notre Dame spans more than two decades since his first gifts to the University in the late 1960s. Most prominent of his gifts is the Annenberg Auditorium of the University's Snite Museum of Art. 
In July, the Annenberg Foundation donated $5 million for the maintenance of the llesburgh Library and the Joyce ACC. 
Annenberg has been a major benefactor of individual col­leges and universities as well as of the United Negro College Fund. A patron of the commu-Toohy were named the sixth place negative team. 
were named the sixth place 
negative team. 

The team of Tim Calmeyn and Mike Sayer placed second on the negative side. The varsity debaters journeyed to Atlanta, Georgia to participate in the Peachtree Debates at Emory University. While no awards were won, varsity member John Albers seemed pleased, anyway. because, "the program here is just getting off the ground," he said. 
The team will be traveling to Northern Illinois University during the weekend of November 10th. "The number of debates we attend during the first semester is limited be­cause of the football season," said Albers. "Our activities re­ally pick up during the second semester," he added. 
The Irish debaters practice with their coach, Nancy Wallace, who is a law student at Notre Dame. The practices center around developing new theories to support and defend the resolution on censorship. 
During an actual debate the debaters must spend four rounds supporting the resolu­tion and four rounds criticizing it. "You have to treat it as a fun activity," said Albers. "You can't go into it with a closed mind. You have to be loose," he said. 
While team members are happy with their success thus far, they see areas that need improvement. The team must operate on a University funded budget that varsity debater Matt Salzman calls, "incredibly small." Salzman added that, "sometimes we have to drive fourteen hours to a debate." John Albers also noted that, "the University is not looking for a permanent debate coach." 
Activities are planned for Parents' Weekend 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
News Writer 

The days are numbered until thousands of proud "Irish" parents make their way to Notre Dame's cam­pus for its annual Parents' Football Weekend. 
Each year one weekend is designated as Parents' Weekend. This time, how­ever, is different, according to Karen Leonard, assistant director of Student Activities Programming. 
Leonard, who is this week­end's coordinator of events, said "this is the first year where Notre Dame parents are being pulled together to experience the Irish hype in a variety of activities outside the football stadium." 
Parents' Weekend will take place Friday through Sun­day, October 12th-14th. A Pep Rally will be held Friday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
Casino Night at Stepan Center will immediately fol­low the Pep Rally. This event will feature dancing to the music of "The Saxophones," refreshments, and casino games. A raffle will be held at 10:30 p.m., which will give away Notre Dame memo­rabilia. All events are com­plimentary. 
On Saturday, the day of the Air Force football game, concession stands will be lo­cated throughout campus. The Glee Club and Shenani­gans will be performing at 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. at the JACC Hospitality Center. 
At 10:40 a.m., the March­ing Band Concert will be held at the steps under the Golden Dome. They will "step off' at 11:25 a.m. and march towards the stadium for the 12:10 p.m. kick-off. 
After the game, Student Government will then spon­sor the second annual Dessert Reception for all in the South Dining Hall from 8:00-11:30 p.m. Rob Pasin, student body president, said "The Dessert Reception was held for the first time last year and was an overwhelm­ing success. We now hope to make it a tradition for all Parents' Football Weekends. The featured entertainment will again be the Glee Club. 
Lastly, the Parents' Mass will be held in Sacred Heart Church at 11 :45 a.m. Sun­day, October 14. For those parents who have not been fortunate enough to view the new renovations in Sacred Heart, this is an opportune time. 
For those parents who have a few free moments be­tween events and are not taking one of the many guided campus tours offered this weekend, the Notre Dame Student Players will present the Broadway Musi­cal, "Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?" Performances will be held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:10 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the in­formation desk in LaFortune for $3. 
In addition, Notre Dame paraphernalia will be on sale all weekend at the Book­store, the JACC Pro-shop, and at the Golf and Tennis Pro-shops. Featured items include the famous green "SHIRT" worn at the Michi­gan game and the navy blue T -shirt commemorating the final Notre Dame-Miami game. All proceeds from the sale of this shirt for "THE CAUSE" will be donated to the family of a Notre Dame graduate who was severely injured exactly one year ago. 



ranks number 41 on 
Forbes richest 400 
for the construction of a new academic quadrangle. 
The quad, to be completed by 1992, will house the $16 million Edward DeBartolo classroom building and the $14 million Marie DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
DeBartolo graduated with a degree in civil engineering from the University and built his for­tune through the development of shopping centers. 
Although their total wealth is awesome, the ricQest people in America are feeling a lot poorer this year. 
From debt-dogged Donald Trump to financial felon Michael Milken and others, for­tunes of the wealthiest declined dramatically this year, Forbes magazine says. 
Fifty-three members of the Forbes 400 list suffered de­clines in net worth ranging from $100 million to $880 mil­lion, the magazine said in its recent Oct. 22 edition, released Monday. 
For the first time since Forbes began publishing the 

Forbes 400 
Wealthiest Americans 
(in millions) 
Jll...t.l:lW.iw:IL...L...llilfla.lllll.a...._Jl.W~ 
list in 1982, the minimum net worth required to join the elite ranking dropped, from $275 million in 1989 to $260 million this year.· 
Some, such as Trump, were evicted, another symbolic boot to the 1980s era of living on borrowed money. Forbes said Trump's fortune, estimated at $1.7 billion in 1989, was possi­bly within "hailing distance of zero" because of looming loans and a slow economy. 
Trump, who previously has denounced Forbes for down­grading his ranking on the list, did not immediately return a telephone call seeking com­ment. 
"This year the entire Forbes 400 list seemed to stop going up and, on balance, start going down," the magazine said. 
"This year all kinds of things went down: real estate, media, banks, public stocks, private companies, you name it," Forbes said. 
It said the declines "reflected a general scaling down of capi­tal values, brought about in good part by a worldwide shrinkage of credit and sinking stock markets." 
Associated Press contributed to this report. 

Edward DeBartolo, a member of Notre Dame's class of 1932, is the 41st wealthiest man in America, according to Forbes. The magazine estimates that DeBartolo, 81, has a fortune of $1.4 billion. 
A resident of Boardman, Ohio, he is well known on cam­pus for his 1989 donation of $33 million to the University 

-----~~-------~ 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A 'definitive' 
look at college 
vocabulary 
Recently a publisher sent me a copy of a new book: The Unof­ficial College Dic­tionary, by Larry Co­hen and Steve Zweig. I found it so enter­taining that I thought I would take this op­portunity to share Corinne Pavlis some of the defini-Saint Mary's Editor tions with you. 

Absent-Used to describe a relationship that does not exist, such as students in class and class in students. 
Art History Majors-People most likely to win the brown wedge in Trivial Pursuit. 
Bookstore-Where you get $4.95 at the end of a term for unopened book you bought at the beginning of the term for $49.95. 
B.S. Degree-A frighteningly accurate assessment of a student's college accom­plishments. 
Campus Police-Usually the last people to arrive at a really great party. Cliffs Notes-Tangible proof that God-ex­ists. Commencement Speech-A $25,000 pep talk. 
Drinking Games-College contests. Unlike the Olympic Games, which occur once in four years, these contests occur every day for four years. 
Fake ID-A driver's license that proves you are 32 years old and used to be four inches taller. 
4.0-A number that will get you i League college, whether it's yom ...0 .. school GPA or your 40-yard dash time. 
Homecoming-A scam to lure generous alumni back to campus. Junior College-High School with ash­trays. 
Law School-Where you go when you real­ize that a degree in Political Science and a valid driver's license qualifies you to drive a cab. 
Letter Jacket-An inconspicuous way to remind college jocks where they go to school and what sport they play. 
PAC Ten-An athletic conference that was known as the PAC Eight until the addition of PAC-MAN and Ms. PAC-MAN. 
Parking Lots-An oxymoron: There is never lots of parking when you need it. Philosophy Major-A future welfare recip­ient. Professor-The only guy who could fix the Radio on "Gilligan's Island." School newspaper-A paper written and read by the same people. Security guards-Cops who make Don Knotts look like Schwarzenegger. 
Senior-Spanish for mister. 

Study-An obscure fad that was briefly popular in the 1960's at Ivy League schools, 
but never really caught on anywhere else. 
Theory of Relativity-A well-tested princi­ple of postgraduate economics: "If you need a job, call a relative." 
Visiting Professor-An instructor who can hand out C's and D's and then they leave the campus before being lynched. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71 Today's Staff: 

Systems Joe Moody Scott Brutocao 
News Sports 

Jon Stewart Siobhan McCarthy Scoreboard: Gil Gomez Rich Kurz 
Accent Graphics lisa Eaton Production Mike Muldoon Janelle Harrigan Karen Newlove 
Christine Anderson Circulation Ad Design Kathleen O'Conner Amy Eckert VIewpoint John O'Brian Dannika Simpson Julie Shepherd Alison Cocks Joy Mueller Jay Colucci Luke Lytell Jennifer McCarter 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ m 0 h ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Shirts for "The Cause" are available to off-campus and graduate students in the Club Coordination Council office and Graduate Student Union office through Thursday. 
Irish poet Peter Fallen will present some of his work at 4 p.m. this afternoon in the South Lounge (2nd floor M) of Cushwa-Leighton Library on Saint Mary's campus. Admission free. 
In Jerusalem's worst bloodshed since 1967, police fired Monday on stone-throwing Palestinians at the Temple Mount sacred to both Jews and Moslems, and at least 19 Arabs died. The Arabs were apparently infuriated by rumors that Jewish extremists planned to march onto the Temple Mount, which is under Moslem control. The shooting began after Palestinians hurled a barrage of stones from the mount onto thousands of Jews gathered just below at the Western Wall, or Wailing Wall, where the Jews were celebrating the festival of Sukkot. The wall is Judaism's holiest site. The bloodbath touched off riots which Police Minister Roni Milo said killed a total of 9 Arabs and wounded about 140. 
David Duke. Louisiana State 
Representative, recently conceded his 
U.S. Senate seat to incumbent Bennett Johston. His decision was officially announced during a recent news con­ference in Metairie, Louisiana, on Sunday morning. Initially, Duke re­fused to admit his loss. He threated to file suit in an attempt to reverse the 


results. Duke changed his mind after arriving at his cam­paign headquarters in Harahan, Lousiana, last Saturday night. Johston received approximately 54 percent of the 
vote. 

INDIANA 
An elementary school principal in Rolling Prairie, Indiana agreed Monday to burn a telephone booth-sized detention box after parents complained that it amounted to child abuse. The 2-by-4-by-8-foot plywood box would have been used by the Principal as a means of dealing with disruptive students. It was never used. Hochstetler agreed to burn the box after he was confronted by about 40 parents during an emotional early-morning meeting at the school Monday. The plywood box contained only a bench and a one-way window. 
A Boone Superior Court jury in Lebanon, Indiana convicted an Alexandria man of murder and conspiracy to commit murder in the 1985 shooting of a Boone County woman Monday. John Morgan Jr., 57, showed little reac­tion when the jury's verdict was announced after less than three hours of deliberation. Special Judge Thomas Milligan scheduled sentencing for Oct. 30. Patricia Ann Mason, 42, was beaten in the head with a hammer and then shot four times in the garage of her rural Boone County home on Oct. 15, 1985. 

NYSE Index 171.65 
0.95 S&P Composite 313.48 • 1.98 Dow Jones Industrials 2,523.76 +13.12 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.20 to $398.10/oz. 
Silver+ 0.2¢ to $4.728/oz. 
A typical child may watch 10,000 hours to 15,000 hours of television before age 18. Becasue of this, a coalition of children's advocates and educators now wants President Bush to sign legislation that would re­quire TV stations to pay more attention to the educa­tional needs of young viewers. The bill would establish a $6 million endowment for children's programming and require the Federal Communications Commission to begin a review of programs that interweave programming and commercial material, usually toys. 
MARKET UPDATE 
The Sophomore Spaghetti Social will be held Wednesday at Saint Mary's. The social, open to Saint Mary's sophomores, will be held in the Residence Halls. For more information, please see the Sophomore Social 
newsletter. Urban Plunge information meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. Center for Social Concerns. Registrations will be available. 
Two American airmen who volunteered for duty with the multinational force facing Iraq died in a jet crash Monday in Saudi Arabia. The United States is leading a multinational force of ships in the region and troops in Saudi Arabia, and the United Nations has imposed a land, sea and air embargo to isolate Iraq and try to force it to withdraw from Kuwait. U.S. warships had been playing a dominant role in enforcing the U.N.­ordered naval blockade to pressure Iraqi President Saddam Hussein into ending the 2-month-old occupation of Kuwait. But in recent weeks, British, Canadian, Australian and Spanish warships have joined in the interceptions. 
ALMANAC 
On October 9: 

eln 1635: Religious dissident Roger Williams was banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. 
eln 1701: The Collegiate School of Connecticut -later Yale University -was chartered in New Haven. 
eln 1919: The Cincinnati Reds beat the Chicago White Sox for the World Series, amid charges that eight members of the White Sox had thrown the Series in what became known as the "Black Sox" scandal 
eln 1975: Soviet scientist An­
drei Sakharov was awarded the Nobel 
Peace Prize. eTen years ago: Mary Cun­
ningham, an executive with Bendix 
Corporation, resigned amid rumors of a 
romance with company chairman 
William Agee. 

Nation's high: 99 (Laredo, Texas) Nation's low: 07 
(W. Yellowstone, Mont.) Yesterday's high: 68 Yesterday's low: 4 8 Forecast: Occasional rain today and tonight. Temperatures ranging from highs in the 50s to lows in the lower 40s. Drizzle and showers tomorrow morning. Mostly cloudy skies in the afternoon, with highs in the 50s. 
WoRLD 
NATIONAL 
-----------------------~-------------------~----~----~ ~~ 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
Lecture will discuss search for 'living' God 
By CORINNE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
Two Saint Mary's students will address the community on their search for a "living" God. 
The Lecture, "The Never Ending Hoad: Our Search for a Living God," is the forth in­stallment of a five part lecture series sponsored by the Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality. 
The series, "Women Looking for God," gives members of the community, as well as two stu­dents, "the opportunity to share their thoughts and expe­rienees concerning women searching for a God that means something," said Keith Egan, Chair of Heligios Studies and Co-Director for the Center of Spirituality. 
Egan emphasized the critical importance of involving stu­dents in the lecture series. "It is important for faculty and administrators to hear what students have to say rather than having them only listen to us," said Egan. 
Egan said that students have been chosen for the last three annual Fall lecture series saince "the notion of students having something to say about Heligious Studies is an impor­tant one: they must feel they have a voice." 
The two students, Angela Appleby and Hache! Tomas, are both seniors at Saint Mary's with double majors in Religious Studies and Psychology. 
Egan praised the students 

and said "they are both very ac­
tive in the Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame Community." Both 
women are involved with the 
"Encounter with Christ" pro­gram at Notre Dame. The address will take place on Wednesday, October 10, at 
12:15 p.m. at Stapleton lounge. 
The Observer 
page 3 

On the march 
APPhoto 
More than a thousand people marched for a variety of social causes across the Burnside Bridge in Portland Sunday. The march was timed to closelv coincide with the start of a trial on Monday, in which a $10 million lawsuit has been filed against white supremacist 
leader Tom Metzger. 
Bishop Rodriguez holds Mass in Spanish 
BY CRISTINA ORTIZ "Just as each seed grows into the study lounge of Cavanaugh. ties is with the Midwest Insti-News Writer a particular plant, so each of Because ND is the leading tute for Hispanic Ministry lo-us grows in our particular vo-Catholic institution in the na-cated in the Holy Cross Annex 
Notre Dame students should cation," said Rodriguez. tion, said Rodriguez, and is in-near Colombia Hall. search for their true vocations, Rodriguez was the guest cele-creasingly providing an oppor-He has been auxiliary bishop all the while keeping it in per-brant at a Spanish Mass held in tunity for Hispanics to develop for seven years, and during this spective as they continue their Cavanaugh Hall last night, or-as leaders, he welcomes the op-time he has ministered to the academic studies, said Bishop ganized through the efforts of portunity to visit. Hispanic community in the Palacido Rodriguez, the auxil-the ND Hispanic-American Or-Rodriguez is the only His-Chicago metropolitan area, an iary bishop of the Diocese of ganization. Immediately follow-panic bishop in the Midwest. area which has seen the need Chicago. ing the mass was a reception in Because of this, one of his du-for Spanish-speaking priests. 
SMC to sponsor Founder's day 


By CORINNE PAVLIS Saturday October 13, marks 
Saint Mary's Editor the 147th anniversary for the College which was founded in 1843 when four Sisters of the 
The Saint Mary's Student-Holy Cross came from Le Mann, Alumnae Association is spon-France and founded the school. soring a Founder's day celebra-The day will begin with a re­tion on Thursday, October 11, ception, "A Return to Tradi­on Saint Mary's campus. tion," in Stapleton Lounge from 
~.......................................................L~.£~ 
WOMEN'S ISSUES & TODAY'S CATHOLIC UNIVERSITIES 
A Lecture by Dr. Ronda Chervin 
8 PM Tuesday October 9 Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Rm 122) 
Dr. Chervin received her PhD in Philosophy at Fordham University. She is currently an Associate Professor of Philosophy at St. John's Seminary in Camarillo, California and one of the women' consultants to the US Bishops writing a Pastotal on the concerns of women. 
She is the author of Feminine. Free and Faithful and Woman to Woman: The Joyful. Sorrowful and Glorious Mysteries of Being a Woman in the Church and 14 other books. 
THE
~YEAR OF 
-
~DMEN)
'illiDI:NT liNION HOARD 

12 p.m. to 1 p.m. The reception 
is intended to express apprecia­
tion towards students, faculty, 
and administrators. Interna­
tional Coffee and cookies will 
be served. 
From 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. a Di­rectory give-away will take place outside in front of Hag­gar College Center. 
The new directories are or­ganized by students' home towns in order to make ride­sharing easier to plan for breaks and visits home. These directories are free to students. Complimentary Founder's day cups will also be distributed. 
A open house in the Riedinger Alumnae House will follow the reception. The open house will run from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
So Many students have seen the Riedinger House, yet never had the chance to take a tour of it," said Alumnae Relations director Trisha Burke. 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 239-5303 
Riedinger House, originally 
utilized by Home Economics 
majors, is presently used to 
house special gu~sts such as 
Alumnae Board, visiting pro­
fessors, and Board of Regents 
members. 
A celebratory dinner will be 
held in the Dining Hall from 
4:30-6:15 p.m. The dinner will 
feature a crepe bar to symbol­
ize the schools French heritage. 
A slide show will run simulta­
neously. 
At 9 p.m., in Haggar Game Room, "Returning to Tradition" will continue with a showing of "The Belles of Saint Mary's." Refreshments will be provided. Also, the library will host a commemoratory display of photos, books, and awards in­volving Saint Mary's over the last 14 7 years. 
"We feel it is important to honor the people and accom­plishment of Saint Mary's," said Burke. The slide show, display, tour, and movie are geared at accomplishing this. 

~CIDIFIBJCIDlOO®IFilll~~ 
THIS IS THE OPPORUNITY YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR! 
ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEARCHING FOR A CHALLENGING OPPORUNITY AND WHO WOULD LIKE TO GET INVOLVED IN THE EXCITEMENT OF JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR SOPHOMORE COMMITI'EE CHAIRPERSON FOR JPW-APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN STIJDENT ACTIVITIES. 
DEADLINE:OCTOBER 12. 1990 
~~---~ ------~ 
page 4 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 4 
9:48 p.m. A Saint Mary's student was assaulted near the Fatima Retreat House by a sus­pect with a sharp object. 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 5 
6:00 p.m. An off-campus student reported the loss of his locked bicycle from Stanford Hall. 
SATURDAY OCTOBER 6 
2:00 a.m. An off-campus student was assaulted on Ivy Road by a sus­pect with a weapon. 
11 :05 a.m. A University Food Services employee reported the theft of food from concession stands out­side Notre Dame Stadium between 
7:30 p.m. A resident of Stanford re­ported the theft of his locked bicycle from Stanford Hall. 
8:30 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the Rockne building. 
SUNDAY OCTOBER 7 
5:22 p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall reported the theft of his wallet containing cash, a social security card, birth certificate and student ID from a study carol in the Rockne Building. 
The Observer 

White supremacists to begin defense in lawsuit 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -A white supremacist and his son began defending themselves Monday against a $10 million lawsuit that accuses them of inciting the fatal beating of a black man. 
Police in riot gear stood by as Tom Metzger, 52, and his son, John, 22, jumped from a van and into a sidewalk elevator that took them to the court­room of another black man, Multnomah County Circuit Judge Ancer Haggerty. 
Dozens of helmeted police, some on horseback, stood guard and a patrol helicopter circled overhead as the Met­zgers arrived. 
The violent demonstration police prepared for failed to materialize, although a few "skinheads" -young, white racists who affect shaved heads and military garb -waited outside the courthouse. Three young men were arrested out­side the courthouse, two for carrying concealed weapons and one in an earlier assault case after the victim pointed him out to police as his alleged attacker. 
Metzger, of Fallbrook, Calif., founded White Aryan Resis­tance and is a former Ku Klux Klan grand dragon. He and his son -also active in the white supremacy movement -are acting as their own attorneys. 
The wrongful-death lawsuit, filed by the victim's uncle, ac­cuses the Metzgers of sending agents to Portland to incite vio­lence against blacks shortly be-· fore Mulugeta Seraw, 27, was beaten to death with a baseball bat in November 1988. Two of the Ethiopian's friends were severely beaten. 
Three skinheads, all members of the neo-Nazi group East Side White Pride, were convicted in Seraw's death. 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 

Campus Ministry and You WE'VE GOT A GIFT FOR YOU! Notre Dame has received a new GIFT -one that helps graduating students continue some of the sensitivities developed during their years at the University. (Z\MPUS As you've heard many times, about seventy-five percent of Notre Dame students are involved during their time here in some sort of activity designed MINISTRY to help those not as fortunate or lucky as themselves. It is presumed that this concern for others continues beyond the years here, and that graduates leave Notre Dame with caring values well in place. Many, of course, arrived with such values '!.!ready established, but their Notre Dame years-it is hoped-do nothing to erode them. Others arrive ready to learn such values from the University's gospel-centered milieu. Now, the GIFT. GIFT is a program designed by a graduating senior to help establish educational opportunities for those who would not otherwise have them. GIFT stands for Graduates Interviewing For Tomorrow. It's a program designed to direct savings from corporate interviews to educational grants. The savings are made based on the initiative of the interviewing student. For example: You are scheduled to interview with the Boise office of big nine ledger firm Andrew ArthuJ;"son. They want to put you up in the Grand Idahoan, Idaho's only Mobil Five Star rated luxury spa. You tell them about GIFT and say that you prefer to stay in the Vacation Manger, not a bad place at all, and have the $100 a night savings given to GIFT. Or you stay with your friend Orin Hatch and Andrew Arthurson donates the entire expense to GIFT. It costs Andrew Arthurson no more to interview you, and they get a tax benefit. In addition, they're realizing what a great caring person you are, and thus you are hired over those party animals who had a great time at the Idahoan. What does GIFT do with the money? This first year, the benefit of your kindness will be donated to the Center for Basic Learning Skills, a program teaching inner-city South Bend adults to read. It's run by a couple of Catholic nuns who are well beyond the retirement age but actually go door to door asking if anyone wants to learn to read. Then, they teach them. They've been doing this for years, and pay for their supplies mostly out of pocket. As GIFf grows, the desire of the founder is to establish a scholarship fund for persons who attend the University under difficult financial straits. Examples would include those strongly desiring an alternative to ROTC, students whose financial circumstances change after enrollment and those losing loans or other scholarships. In Summary: GIFT is an opportunity to serve the educational needs of others and to let potential employers know your own values include concern for others. It encourages those interviewing for jobs -whether with law firms, accounting firms, labs or financial institutions -to let the potential employer know about GIFT and ask them to participate. The results of this effort help others have an opportunity for the same education you had yourself. Interested in learning more? Call Kevin Cavanaugh at 283-4307 and leave a message. He'll get back to you. It's his GIFT.  Week-end presiders at Sacred Heart Church Saturday , October 13 5PM Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Sunday. October 14 BAM Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. 10 AM Rev. William Dohar, c.s.c. 11:45 AM Rev. Thomas Gaughan, c.s.c. Please be prayerfully mindful of LaVern Yazzie and Alicia McKearn and their families. Their fathers died recently, and Campus Ministry offers them our prayer and support. All dorms are encouraged to take up collections at their week-end liturgies for Congregation of Holy Cross projects in third world countries. Campus Ministry will channel these monies to appropriate resources. Thank you.  

Tuesday, October 9, 1990 The Observer pageS 

By RENEE YOUNG environmental awareness According to vice-president of 
Nllws Writer workshops and inviting envi­"Saint Mary's Recycles," ronmental activists to speak on Christina Varallo, the money campus. raised from the can collecting 
Saint Mary's College kicked will go directly back into the off the official beginning of a The support for the program program for supplies, creating new aluminum can recycling will be entirely up to the Saint a self-supportive system. program yesterday. Mary's Community .. 
The student run program, en­Receptacles have been placed in The majority of the responsetitled "Saint Mary's Recycles," all of the resident halls, the to the program has been posi­hoped to promote environmen­academic buildings, and the tive, Saint Mary's student Kim tally responsible behavior on Haggar College Center. Each Martin said. "It was about time 
eampus. According to the pro­building has a building coordi­we started all recycling. I hope gram president, Lauren nator and section or area rep­this program encourages ev­Leshnock, the program is resentatives responsible for eryone at Saint Mary's to do working to educate students, collecting the cans from the so." faculty and others about the containers and taking them to resource crisis our country is the central locations for that The next meeting of "Saint 
facing today. building. They will then be Mary's Recycles" is on October The program plans to edu­transported to the recycling 18 at 7 p.m., in room 303 of the cate the students by conducting center. Haggar College Center. 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 10, 1990 
8:00p.m. 

The Notre Dame Room 
of the Morris Inn 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND'72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 
INTERVIEW DATES: 

ACCENT November 15-16, 1990 (Information Systems Management) 
TTMP November 16, 1990 (Telecommunications) 
FMDP November 15, 1990 (Financial Management) 
MCEBO ASSOCIATES November 16, 1990 (Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
Internship information will also be available 
An Equal Opportunlly Employu 

Mixon passes office of President to Cathcart 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
In Student Senate this week, Dave Cathcart, former vice president of the Sophomore Class, was officially named the new president of the class due to the resignation of Patrick Mixon. 
According to the Student Government Constitution, "In the event of a vacancy in the of­fice of Class President, the Class Vice-President shall be­come Class President. In the event of a vacancy in a Class Office position, the Class Presi­dent shall fill the vacant posi­tion(s), subject to the approval of a majority vote of the entire Student Senate." 
"In the event that the offices of both the class President and Class Vice-President shall si­multaneously become vacant, the Student Senate shall ap­point, by a majority vote, an el­igible student to serve as Acting Class President. The Acting Class President and the Acting Class Vice-President shall be­come official upon approval of a majority vote of the entire Student Senate." 
The changes approved by the Senate are as follows: 
•Molly 
O'Neill remains trea­surer. 

•Dave 
Cathcart moves from VP to President. 

•Robin 
Stumpf moves from secretary to VP. 

•Jennifer 
Swize moves from Service Commissioner to secre­tary. 


In other business, 'the Senate discussed the possible avenues for preventing the annual snowball fight from occurring this year. Some of the sugges­tions presented were: 
1) Make individuals caught doing damage pay for all the damage. 
2) Have Hall Presidents warn students in respective dorms not to participate in the activ­ity. 
3) Have security deter the fight completely. 

Gas mask distribution 
A young Israeli boy is fitted with a child-size gas mask by an Is­raeli soldier in the town of Kfar Yona, north of Tel Aviv, Sunday. The arm.y distributed the gas masks to the populace Sunday in preparation for a potential Iraqi chemical attack. 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 
OCTOBER 20, 1990 


On the evening of October 20 last year, Zheng-<le Wang, a Notre Dame graduate student from Tianjin, China,wasstruck down hyacarwhile walking on Notre Dame Avenue. Zheng-dc had already received his master's degree in sociology, was pursuing a doctoral degree and was hoping to obtain a law degree from Notre Dame fill' what would certainly have been a distinguished career in international law. Uninsured at the time of the accident, Zheng-<le was severely injured and comatose for several months. Now confined to a wheelchair and undergoing therapy, Zheng-<le is able to recognize old friends and to move his fingers for rudimentary communication, hut his recovery is far from complete and far from certain. 
Profits derived from the sales of this T -shirt will be donated to Zheng-de's family for the enormous expenses this .tragedy ha~ inflicted on them. 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO. DESK, BOOKSTORE, PRO SHOPS, & G.S.U. OFFICE (307 LA FORTUNE) 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990
page 6 The Observer 
2 Live Crew challenges court 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -An attorney defending the rap group 2 Live Crew against obscenity charges on Monday challenged the county's voter-based jury pool as uncon­stitutional in cases that depend on community standards. 
"Because it relies only on voter registration lists it leaves you always with a pretty mid­dle-class, semi-middle-aged disproportionately white jury pool because those are the peo­ple who register to vote in the greatest numbers," said attor­ney Bruce Rogow. 
He also represented Charles Freeman, a black record store owner convicted last week by an all-white jury on a similar charge for selling the group's album, "As Nasty As They WannaBe." 
The defense attorney didn't suggest an alternative way to choose potential jurors. 
The album, which U.S. Dis­trict Judge Jose Gonzalez ear-
Desert sand 

lier ruled obscene, has sold 
about 2 million copies. 
Crew leader Luther Campbell 
and band members Chris 
Wongwon and Mark Ross face 
misdemeanor obscenity charges 
stemming from a June 10 
adults-only performance at a 
nightclub in Hollywood, Fla. 
Campbell angrily walked out 
of the courtroom Monday while 
the judge read aloud his al­
legedly obscene lyrics. . If convicted, the three could 
be sentenced to a year in jail 
and fmed $1000. 
Only three of 25 potential 
jurors questioned Monday were 
black. However, Broward Cir­
cuit Judge June Johnson said 
she wanted to see the whole 70­
person pool before ruling on 
the defense motion. No jurors 
were chosen Monday. 
Most obscenity cases are ar­
gued on the U.S. Supreme 
Court's Miller v. California test. 
Essentially, it holds that mate­
rial is obscene if the average 
person, applying contemporary local community standards, would find that it is designed to cause sexual arousal, if it de­picts sex in a patently offensive way, and if, taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, 
political or scientific value. 
Freeman complained after his 
conviction that the jury 
"doesn't represent my commu­
nity." 
An elections official said 
about 8.5 percent of registered 
voters in Broward County are 
black. 
Johnson rejected a prosecu­
tion request Monday that she 
disqualify herself from the case 
because she had been a Jaw 
student of defense attorney Ro­
gow. 
Prosecutors are appealing the 
decision. 
The judge approved a defense 
motion that neither Freeman's 
conviction nor Gonzalez's ruling 
should be allowed as evidence 
at the group's trial. 

The old ways of Arabia meet the new on the desert of the United Arab Emirates, a loose federatio~ of seven sheikdoms. Oil from beneath the nation's sands and Persian Gulf waters has made the Umted 
Arab Emirates the eleventh wealthiest country in the world. 
CHICAGO (AP) -The rate at which Americans died from ac­cidents decreased an estimated 21 percent in the last decade, according to a group that pro­motes safety. Experts at­tributed the improvement to seat belt laws, smoke alarm re­quirements and other tough­ened safety regulations. 
The National Safety Council, a public service organization with headquarters here, reports that accidents still rank as the fourth leading cause of death, as they were at the beginning of the 1980s. 
But the combination of new laws and lower public tolerance for unsafe behavior at home, at work and especially behind the wheel of a car has improved Americans' safety record, said Alan Hoskin, director of the council's statistics department. 

"In general, people are demonstrating more concern for in numerous aspects 
.. 

BUY l'f FOR "TilE CAUSE" 


o/IC:S 
s~iiiiiiiiiiil 

113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
,.

...,..., ~·-,......., 
2BUCK 
TUESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 
A'0o FoR. DeLIVERY 
CATHOUCS 
vs. 
CO"l:CTS 
T·Shlrts and Neon Hall 
TUENO~-­
of their lives," Hoskin said Monday. 
To promote abetter under­stanaing of the psycho-social, religious, cultural, philosopnical, and historical aspects of homosexuality analesbian and gay peop1e. 
This Lecture Series is sponsored by the Departments of Amencan Studies, Anthropology, Art, Art History, and Design, Communication and Theatre, English, Government, History, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Theology, 
and 
Center for Social Concerns, Student Government, Gender Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 


Anti-draft Army protest 
A jubilant Soviet anti-war youth throws a clenched fist after he climbed up to the flag post and hoisted a black protest flag before the Soviet Defence Ministry Sunday. Hundreds of youths joined a rally to demand a new voluntary army and to stop the drafting. 
Two American doctors win Nobel prizes in medicine 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) ­Two American doctors won the Nobel Prize in medicine Monday for their work in transplanting human organs and bone mar­row, revolutionary procedures that have saved thousands of lives over three decades. 
Joseph Murray, 71, who performed the first successful organ transplant -a kidney ­and Donnan Thomas, 70, who pioneered bone marrow transplants to cure leukemia, will share the $704,000 (4 mil­lion kronor) prize. 
Most Nobel Prizes in medicine have been awarded for basic research, not for clinical treatment. 
"I really thought this work was too clinical to ever win the prize," Thomas said from his home in Bellevue, Wash. He is affiliated with the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, one of the world's major bone marrow transplant institutions. 
But in the case of transplants, the clinical treatment was a radical advance. 
"This was astonishing, to take one organ and move it to another person. It was science fiction 30 years ago," said Dr. Carl~Gustav Groth, a member of the Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute, which awarded the prize. 
A Lecture Series on 

~ 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 page 7 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor •••..••.•......•.••.•..Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .•.....•. Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ••••...•••..•.• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ••••••.•.••. Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••••••.•...••..•.....Greg Gulley Production Manager •••••••.•....Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor.•••.....••••••..Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr •...Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .•••.••••.•.•.•.••••••••.Eric Bailey OTS Director ..•....•••••.•••••••.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••.•.•..Corinne Pavlis Controller..•..•...••••••••••....Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Cancellation of 'U' a disappointing decision 
Student Government's decision to cancel the subscription to the national college newspaper, "U," is a re~rettable one. 
Student Body President Rob Pasin cited two reasons for the decision. First, according to Pasin, "No one reads it." Secondly, "some people complained" about the appearance of condom ads m the paper. 
Pasin and Student Body Vice President Fred Tombar said they saw copies of the paper's September issue scattered around the dining halls. While the mess is not exactly a show of respect for University Food Services employees, it does not necessarily indicate a lack of readers. In fact, their presence implies the students actually took the trouble to take them out of The Observer and look at them. 
The second reason is equally disturbing. By cancelling the subscription for this reason, the University avoids the existence of condoms. If the University wants its students to adopt certain viewpoints toward sex and birth control, the best solution is to educate them to make the choice for themselves. By censoring the ads, the University is not solving the problem; it is fostering a 
more dangerous one: ignorance. Not only are the students being encouraged to avoid makin8 adult decisions, they are not being encouraged to vtew sex responsibly. 
It also seems to be a contradictory action on the University's part: on the one hand, students are encouraged to read AIDS literature which freely discusses birth control, but on the other hand, a national newspaper which advertises condoms is not permitted to be distributed on campus. The University's next logical step would seem to be to remove magazines from the Bookstore and the deli in LaFortune which treats similar subjects, such as GQ and Cosmopolitan. 
Furthermore, readin~ U. provided students with a means of keeping up wtth events and trends on other college campuses. The paper featured a variety of stories from college newspapers around the country. 
Cutting off the subscription isolates Notre Dame students further from national issues important to their pellrs, as well as distancing students around the nation from Notre Dame. rt is difficult to understand how Notre Dame can consider itself a premier national university when students' contact with other national universities is curtailed. 
DOONESBURY 

LETTERS 
Military needs Christian influence when making important decisions 
Dear Editor: 
Today I read yet another article in The Observer criticizing the ROTC programs at Notre Dame, the day after I was informed that ROTC students were not to wear their uniforms to the Mass for the Pasquerilla Center dedication because of anticipated protests. As a senior enrolled in naval ROTC, and as a Catholic, I would like to respond to the controversy created about ROTC at a Catholic university. 
I did not join ROTC for purely financial reasons, contrary to what Mr. Long asserted in his letter on Oct. 4. I have always wanted to be an officer in the armed forces. I have chosen a career and a lifestyle, not a free ride through college. 
As to the nature of my chosen career, it is important to consider the actual mission of the U.S. military. The mission of our armed forces is not to wage war, but to maintain peace. The current situation in the Persian Gulf demonstrates this mission. If the United States was not interested in keeping peace at all costs, thousands of Navy, Marine Corps, Army and Air Force personnel would not be deployed in Saudi Arabia. It is also important to notice that while the United States is not permitting Iraq to have its way in Kuwait, neither has the United States invaded Iraq. The United States has not sought unnecessary bloodshed in the past, nor does it now. 
It is disturbing to me that individuals like Mr. Long seek to cut off the military from Christianity. In a time of national emergency, does Mr. Long really hope that there are no Catholics at the front? It only seems logical to hope that when military decisions are being made, individuals with a moral. ethical, Christian background are making them. Considering the difficult moral decisions that military personnel may be called upon to make, it certainly seems cruel to want to cast these people out of Christianity. My Catholic upbringing helped me to make the decision to join the military; I would hate to be alienated from my church when I have more crucial choices to make. 
I would like to add that I do not want to stifle people like Mr. Long. It is vital to our country that individuals continue to question and criticize, and it is the right to such skepticism that I am prepared to defend. 
Merritt Hamilton Pasquerilla West Oct. 4, 1990 
Sophomore class president resigns for academic reasons; Cathcart takes over 
Dear Editor: 
As fellow students of Notre Dame, we all share one common goal: to achieve excellence in academics. If we are doing well within the academic part of life, some of us choose to participate in an extracurricular activity. 
Some of us, however, have an extracurricular activity that requires so much time that our academics begin to suffer. I am a person who fits this profile perfectly. Therefore, having my priorities in the order of academics first and extracurricular activities second, I am resigning my position of President of the Sophomore Class. 
This decision did not come easily for me. Foreseeing that my time would be limited, I took the initiative to attend summer school and take organic chemistry. I thought that this would alleviate some pressure for time, but it did not. My officers respect my decision to resign, and I hope that you, too, will respect the difficult decision I made. 
The new officers of the sophomore class will be as follows: Dave Cathcart, president; Robin Stumpf, vice­president; Molly O'Neil, treasurer; Jennifer Swize, secretary. Having worked with these four people, I am highly confident that they will do an excellent job in serving the Class of 1993. I wish the four of them the best of luck. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Class of 1993 for the opportunity they gave me to serve as their president. 
Patrick Mixon Flanner Hall Oct. 9, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'lite is a fill-in ....go ahead.' 
John Houck 
N D Management Professor 
-----.-----------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
U.S policy in Middle East neglects humanity's interests 
By Paul Peralez 
His country ravaged by eight successive years of war exacerbated by an American foreign policy rife with C.I.A. intrigue and wildcat imperialism, Saddam Hussein seeks nothing but to unite the Arab people and to restore to the Arab mastery of his house. Saddam Hussein saw in Kuwait not a nation, but a fiefdom ruled by a totalitarian emir whose power was maintained by a bevy of political whores in the United States Congress who prostituted their governmental authority to maintain an insufferable regime. The suffering of his own people, the callous indifference of Christian nations to their plight and the history of European colonialism, which divided a once-united community into a map of nation states, justify the restoration of Iraq to its former size. Saddam Hussein, by history and by right, must have dominion over Kuwait. President Bush must withdraw American forces from the Middle East and leave the Arab people to handle their own affairs. 
Saddam Hussein has been portrayed in the West as a madman -a religious zealot who flouts international law and defies human decency. Lest we forget, the United States has its own record of wanton aggression and brutality. The United States is the only state to have exploded nuclear weapons. This country, through clandestine agencies and through the abrogation of its own constitution, has been engaged in a continuous war for the past seventy-five years. The United States has sought to discredit foreign leaders that refuse to subordinate their humanity or sell the destinies of their people to the West. The United States has fomented revolutions around the world, bringing death and destruction to innocent peoples in Latin America, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Now the United States government is working to further divide the Arab people and to persuade the world that the economic interests of the Western nations warrant an overt violation of Arab sovereignty. Indeed, oil seems to be the world's most precious commodity -more precious, even, than the blood of the young men who are now poised to fight a war in a foreign land. 

Clearly, the media has profited generously from the events in the Middle East. Devoid of any moral considerations, many in the media have simultaneously exploited our nation's fears of war and its insatiable appetite for a strong-armed people who refuse to suffer a bastard foreign policy -a policy that places the economic interests of a handful of powerful American corporations over the interests of humanity. These born-again jingoes must revel at the possibility that American brinkmanship will collapse an American presidency -more copy, more money and more fuel for the seductive self­delusion that the media, and not the electorate, is the real American power broker. 
Let the president of the United States be damned for dispatching tens of thousands of American soldiers to the Middle East in what amounts to attempt to redeem an American pride wounded by the Vietnam conflict or to shore up a presidency burdened by the legacy of a doddering incompetent -a massive debt, a disintegrating infrastructure, a third rate system of education and a people that faces a future fraught with uncertainty. Alas, a people who may soon be at war. 
It is appalling that the president's actions command such a high approval rating among the American people. Are we so deluded by the myth of United States military supremacy that an American victory is a foregone conclusion? The casualties will be great in the event of war. Oil prices will soar to levels so precipitous that our already enfeebled economy will surely collapse and scores of soldiers, many of whom have not yet reached twenty, will be returned to their country in body bags. The United States has neglected to establish good diplomacy with the Arab nations and has altogether ignored their grievances in international conventions. The United States has placed itself on the brink of an unjust war. 

Theirs is but a small parcel of Earth that has created the wealth of the mammoth industrial complex of the Western World, yet the Arab people themselves live in a state of shocking deprivation. The United States has sought to discredit Arab leaders who dare seek just compensation and an equitable distribution of the money derived from oil. In many ways, both subtle and direct, the United States has repeatedly attempted to foist its authority upon weaker nations. In the Arab world, the United States has selectively sold ordnance and sophisticated military hardware to those nations that oblige American political demands. Several days ago, the president proposed that many billions of dollars in outstanding debt owed to Egypt to the United States be forgiven in appreciation of Egypt's support for the American invasion of the Middle East. And early this week, the president announced a multi­billion dollar sale of arms to Saudi Arabia -arms which Saudi Arabia had sought for years and whose sale had been strongly opposed by Israel. Riven by struggles contrived and implemented by men in the United States Congress and in the Pentagon, the lives of the Arab people are fettered by protracted American intervention in their domestic affairs. We have discredited their leaders, manipulated their economies, blasphemed their religion and committed wholesale murder of their populations. For them, then, Saddam Hussein is a hero. By its own folly, the United States hazards making him a martyr. 
Paul A. Peralez is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Plans for war hinder possible peace settlements 
By Tara Verdonk and Ellen Feeney 
"War in the Middle East is inevitable." 
"Saddam Hussein must eventually be removed from power, and that will inevitably require U.S. military action." · Such sentiments are reverberating across the U.S. and some regions in the world, as there seems to be no end in sight to the crisis in the Middle East. Is this the way we really want this crisis to end? 
The cold war is over, and the world finds itself with unprecedented opportunities to effectively halt serious aggression without resorting to war. All but a very few nations of the world have come together to condemn the invasion of Kuwait. Their message is that aggressive action will no longer be tolerated as a means to resolve disputes. 
However, if this message is to be made effective and credible, the means employed must fit and justify the ends sought. Those who convey the message must be confident that non­violent measures can repel aggression. Aggressive actions cannot be used to convey the message that aggressive action is to be renounced. 
The more we focus on plans for war, the more we will miss opportunities for peaceful settlement, and, thus, truly cause war to be inevitable. Such a war could involve the unleashing of some of the deadliest weapons known to humankind and would undoubtedly result in large numbers of Americans coming home in body bags. Why, when so much of the world has changed, would war be considered to be either in our national interest or inevitable? 

If our principle is that war must be the absolute last resort in resolving a dispute, then our goals and policies must reflect this. We should also take ad­vantage of the fact that the Soviet Union and most of the Arab world are likewise condemning Hussein. 
First, we must define our goals and de-escalate the rhetoric. Our immediate concern should be, and is, getting Iraq out of Kuwait and protecting Saudi Arabia from invasion. This does not necessarily entail the removal of Saddam Hussein from power, for to attempt to do so would violate the very end we seek. Hussein may have had legitimate grievances concerning Kuwait's use of an oil field on the border between the two countries. He undeniably had no right to invade Kuwait over this problem. 
In the same way, we have legitimate grievances against Hussein. Even though he is in the wrong and deserves the condemnation and punishment he is receiving, we still do not have the right to forcibly remove him from power. The goal is to change his behavior, not his role in Iraq, however psychologically satisfying the latter may be. 
Likewise, we must refrain from viewing the dispute solely in terms of good-bad, winners­losers, and us-them. Such terminology limits the option that could be utilized to peacefully settle this situation. Instead, we should be trying to find "face-saving options" for each of the parties involved so that each can claim some level of victory in forging a solution to the crisis. 
Second, to facilitate the finding of "face-saving options," the U.S. must gradually turn over command of peace­keeping forces in the Gulf to the 
U.N. This would create the conditions for multi-lateral dialogue and negotiation and · de-escalate the dispute from being a Bush-Hussein or U.S.­Iraq crisis. Further, replacing 
U.S. 
troops with U.N. troops would help to avoid a situation where aggressive action by the 

U.S. 
seems to be the only alternative to dealing with Hussein. Now with U.S. troops as the predominant force, Iraq is forced into a situation where aggressive action may soon seem its only chance for addressing its concerns or "saving-face". The U.S. is seen primarily as a threat, and our presence is used by Hussein to deflect discussion of the real is­sue-resolving the crisis brought about by his invasion of Kuwait. 


A U.N. force, however, would be seen as less of a threat and more of a peace-keeping, 
police-like force that is encouraging diplomatic resolution efforts. While the 
U.S. is currently claiming to be such a force, it can not take it upon itself to play such a role effectively for the long term when it is so resented and seen as an interventionist power in the region. The only legitimate global peace-keeping police force is one that truly represents the interests of the world, and, right now, the U.N. is the only such body. With a 
U.N. force fulfilling such a peace-keeping role, it might be easier for Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait and save face without being seen as caving in to what is viewed as American interventionist pressure. 
Furthermore, Iraq would be much less likely to attack a U.N. force. An attack now on forces controlled by the U.S. could easily split up the existing coali­tion of forces if U.S. commanders and strategies dominate and Israel gets in­volved. If Arab states are to remain a viable part of the peace-keeping operation, then they are more likely to do so under U.N. rather than U.S. command if the shooting starts. And Hussein would know that an attack on U.N. forces would be more of an attack on the whole world. 
The costs of peace, some say, are too high and will result in dangerous appeasement of aggression. However, in this situation, the costs of war could easily outweigh any benefits derived from ·it. This is especially true when their is opportunity for allowing the economic sanctions to take their effects and to creatively use conflict resolution techniques that the U.S., the U.S.S.R., and the Arab world can accept and promote. 
Hussein has shown that he is sensitive to world opinion. The video he produced concerning the hostages aptly demonstrated this. Furthermore, Hussein has also alluded to the possibility that he would be willing to take part in a conference to solve both the Kuwait problem and the Palestinian question. Perhaps, with continued pressure, Hussein would be willing to put off the Palestinian question if it was put second on the agenda, following the resolution of the Kuwait crisis. 
It is too early to rule out a peaceful settlement and act as if war is inevitable. Our leaders need to know how strongly we want peaceful means of settlement to be pursued. We encourage those with similar sentiments to take action and begin by writing President Bush and local congressional representatives. 
It is time to have the great moments of U.S. history be ac­tions for peace and astute diplomacy and not war and cold war power politics. 
Tara Verdonk is a senior government, peace studies and PPE major. Ellen Feeney is a senior government and PPE major. 
Accent 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
page 9 
Influential ND volunteers contribute much to Peace Corps program 
By JOHN FISCHER skills and areas of expertise, volunteer is granted a $5,400 for the Peace Corps. Volunteers was to refurbish school facili­Accent Writer with a focus on such scarce "readjustment allowance" to have had to leave Liberia, the ties in rural areas of Costa Rica. skills as agriculture, nursing, help ease their transition back Philippines, and Yemen recently She also had time to partici­Some people, when they and adult education. A college into life in the United States. due to political instability in pate in activities with and for graduate from college, gp to degree is usually necessary for Some workers get a one year those nations. In the Philip­the community, such as teach­live in Uganda for a couple most jobs, which is a require­extension in their nation, de­pines, a volunteer was actually ing dance and English to chil­years. ment set forth by the nations pending on the program they threatened, as a warning that dren, and taking them to the 
These people, including fif­who request Peace Corps assis­are involved with. the Peace Corps was not wel­movies, which is something teen Notre Dame graduates, are tance. come in that nation at that they had never done before. members of the United States Popular current programs in­time. The children decorated her Peace Corps. While not The application and accep­clude health services, technical porch with wild flowers in everyone goes to Uganda, this is tance process takes approxi­education and advice, and liter­For the most part, however, appreciation of such efforts. one of 70 countries which are mately nine months, according acy. Forestry and other envi­the Peace Corps is highly ap­on the receiving end of the to recruiter Noreen Carrillo, ronmental concerns are gaining preciated by the host nation Carrillo says future goals in­Peace Corps' efforts. who just recently returned from ground in such regions as and its citizens, Carrillo says. clude getting more minorities 
her assignment in Costa Rica. Eastern Europe, where a siz­The only other major problem involved in order to show the 
Last week, in the Hesburgh The process includes the initial able number of nations have the Corps may have to face is a people of other nations that the Library lobby, Peace Corps re­application, medical screening, recently been added to the possible budget cutback. Be­United States has various and cruiters attempted to encour­and interviews. There are cur­Peace Corps' agenda. cause the Peace Corps is 100 diverse cultures to offer. age more Notre Dame students rently 6,344 volunteers working Carrillo says, "The beauty of percent funded by the United She says each volunteer to join the program upon grad­abroad in developing countries. the Peace Corps is its hands-on, States government, this is a makes his or her own mark oo uation. Since Father Hesburgh grass roots feel." She states possibility, although there is no the program. "The goal is to helped to found the organiza­Each volunteer is provided an that Peace Corps members have current knowledge of a reduc­bring an understanding to other tion 29 years ago, recruiters allowance for food and trans­more of an influence on indi­tion of funds. countries of what America is all have been coming to Notre portation, but otherwise have viduals in other nations than about, and for the volunteers ~ Dame looking for people to no income while there, accord­the United States' official rep­Carrillo's personal experience bring home to America an' serve a two-year stint in a vari­ing to Carrillo. They live in, resentation there. She says they in Costa Rica was as an adult understanding of what foreig~ ety of nations. work in, and are a part of their are not a political organization. education coordinator, and a cultures are about. We are in 
The Peace Corps seeks gradu­community. Once their two-year Politics, however, can be a teacher of literacy in high our 30th year and are stiU ates with a variety of different commitment has ended, each source of trouble and difficulty school. Another of her tasks going strong," sh~ adds. 
Chuck resorts to Mom and Dad for help with anxiety 

government is going to shut down because they've finally run out of money, but the pres­ident says we shouldn't see any change in the quality of federal services. Jlmmm... 
Some of my friends are hop­ing they won't have to go to HOTC training until the shut down is over. I hope George is right, though. If the mail slows down any more, you probably won't get this until next semester. 
The paper also said that U.S. News and World Heport dropped Notre Dame from its list of top 25 universities. The administration says we just don't have enough quads. 
I went outside after I finished the paper. The smell changed again this weekend. It was a spoiled milk fragrance and now it's more of a rotting bananas aroma. Some days the air is so thick you can almost chew it. A lot of people are from mega­lopolises (notice I've been using the thesaurus Grandma gave me) and don't seem to mind. 
You really can feel the big city influence here. Everyone walks on the sidewalks, for instance. The campus is still fairly safe, though. My biggest fear is that I'll get run over by a golf cart. Or that one of the planes that buzz the dome every hour will crash into my dorm. 
Otherwise, all I really have to 
worry about it is my laundry. Yesterday, I bought a sweatshirt at the bookstore to put it off another day. At least I know I'm not alone. If they gave freshmen course credit for learning how to wash your clothes (and they should), a lot of people would be failing. My classes are full of shrunken, light blue t-shirts. And some­one else accidentally dried my laundry last week. 
Most everyone wears t-shirts here, especially ones that say 
Chuck Young 
Fresh Perspective 
"Catholics vs. Convicts." I over­heard a professor chastising another freshman for wearing one. He said he didn't think convicts should be defamed by being associated with the Uni­versity of Miami. 
Despite my wardrobe's lack of funny t-shirts, my social life is going well. But that's no reason 
to worry. 

I went to a Barn Dance last night with a girl from Saint Mary's. It was a good time. When I went into her dorm afterwards, a hostile-looking nun took my I.D. and money. She said I always had to have an escort, but if I came into physical contact with anyone, she'd send a letter to the bishop and have me excommunicated. And I know a girl in Walsh Hall with a sign on her wall that says "No Boys In Horizontal." 
Also, there's not much to do in South Bend, so the "big step" here is to ask a date to mass. Church is supposed to be the best place to meet a girl, any­way. 
Whenever you have a ques­tion, you're supposed to ask your R.A .. so I asked mine if people's crushes were as bad as mine. 
He said, "Dude, it's worse here. They end in marriage." Oh, well. 
I think I'll mention that in my column. 
Working at The Observer is fun, but my friends say my writing flows like a glacier. "Trying writing about the same thing for more than one para­graph," one suggested. I'm go­ing to work on that. 
That's not the only interesting response to my work. I got a letter from Oregon, for exam­ple. It was from a Sophomore's mother who is already worried about what I'll call my column next year. I'll bet her son gets a lot of care packages. Hint. 
I also got a dirty phone call from a girl who read me a poem about it. She was a real intellectual. She used words like "effervescent" and "tremulous" along with other ones I can't print. I wish she'd send me mail instead. My 
-

roommate wants to write a column, now, and I don't need the competition. 
Well, that's about it. I'm out of time. I don't know what I'll send The Observer for Tuesday. The studying here is nuts. I never sleep. In fact, I've been on cruise control since Wednesday. Please save me. Better yet, send money ... 
Your Son of South Bend, 
Chuck 
Want to read about yourself in the paper? Send letters, money or food to Chuck, Care of the Observer, 3rd floor of La Fortune. 
r--­
Tuesday, October 9. 1990 page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:3>()p.~. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 ~.m. at the Samt . Marys off1ce Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1fleds 1s _3 p.m. All class1fueds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, mclud1ng spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICESI NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­297-2192.  at the nation's leading employers, call 1-800-TRS-JOBS. OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625.  Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30  THIS IS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY ­HELP THE NEEDY ­NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud HAVE MERCY!!! MIKI 284-4386  Wealthy Alumni Desparately Need MiamiTix Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$ **I am willing to SELL!!!**  AFGAs Will TRADE (+cash) for Penn or Miami Gas/stud tix or SELL x 2909. NEED 3 GA'S TOGETHER FOR  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Medical, sports, or exercise oriented person needed part­ I NEED TIX TO ANY GAME!I! CALL SHARON 284-5089  NEED: 4 AF GA's. Call Tracy 273­9033.  2 Miami GA's. Call Mary at (603)889-0368 & make offer.  AIR FORCE. CALL MATI AT 288-7568.  
NOW OPEN! BED & BREAKFAST Rooms available for all N/D events. IDEAL for family/ fans/ business associates from out-of-town. Minutes from N/D & toll road exit #83. 219-273-0388/1-800-669­0388 Typing Pickup & Delivery  time to assist with patients in sports/orthopaedic physical therapy clinic. Call Maura at 277-9901. WANTED: Enthusiastic individual or student organization to promote Spring Break destination for 1991. Earn commissions, free trips and valuable work experience. Apply nowlll Call  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971, II am-8pm, M-F. I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X 1 068. THANKS  $$$$$$$$cashiche$$$$$$$$$$ 1need 2 Miami G.A.'s-Name your miserable price. Fred#1852 WILL TRADE 4 AIR FORCE G.A.'S FOR 2 MIAMI G.A.'S CALL CHRIS #277-9363 NEED ONE AIR FORCE GA. CALL FRANK x1867.  NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX CALLX3224 NEED 1 MIAMI STUD OR GA CALL TONY 271-1873 SELLING STUD TIX to home games 239-8232 after 5pm 273-9209  MIAMI TIX; need 1 GA; call Bob x3300 I need 4 Air Force GA's == Call Holly at X4492 I need 4 Air Force GAs! Parents and Sibs never been to ND. Call Amy 284-5461 I NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S !!! CALL  
277-7406 SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. & Howard. 233-2342 SMC-ND students--summer programs London (May 22-June 21) and Rome (June 16-July 15). Travel in Ireland, Scot., Eng., France, Ger., Switz., and Italy.  T.J. at Student Travel Service 1­800-265-1799. Need ride to Boston for fall break. Prefer to leave after Miami game. Will help pay for gas & tolls & can drive stick. Laura X3776 Needed: Tickets to NO-Pitt game Call Maria 3829 Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340.  HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589 WANTED: ONE OR TWO NO­MIAMI TICKETS. CALL MRS. MCINTYRE COLLECT (802) 775­4553. ND GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625.  Aim High!! -Sell me your Air Force tickets for top dollar. -1 need 4 GAs and 1 Student ··call Jeff at 283-1164 2 Miami Stud Tix For Sale Best Offer John x1808 I HAVE AIR FORCE GA'S WILL TRADE FOR MIAMI GA'S X4046  leave b.o. syd For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best offer. 284-5152 or 284-5115 I Need PSU GA's Call Beth 288-0597 4 STUD. TIX/ALL HOME GAMES MAKE OFFER: 287-9731 I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S call Andi x4189 WANTED: One student ticket  JOE x1307 !!! PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED 4 AF GA'S. CALL BARRY @1765 4 USC TIX FOR SALE. $50/EA OR WILL TRADE FOR 1 OR 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL JEFF (714) 646-8274. AIR FORCE GA TIX. REASONABLE. 516-437-9784 AFTER6PM. HAVE AF TIX: 2 GAS, 1 STUD WILL SELL OR TRADE FOR MIAMI  
Courses in art, bus. and econ., educ., Italian, justice ed., hist. and soc. Meeting Oct. 15 7:00 pm Carroll Hall (SMC). Teachers, slides, former students, pizza, etc. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460 (office) 272-3726 home). LOST/FOUND FOUND: SILVER RING IN LIBRARY. CALL WITH DESCRIPTION 234-5140. I lost a navy blue windbreaker at Club 23 last Wednesday. If you found it, please call me at 289-3467. Ask for John. RED***RED***RED***RED*** jacket lost at stanford barn dance...also RED ground grafic piece from RED car in D-21ot...PRETTY PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN THEM !II X-4096 ask for PAULA. LOST: A 14KT GOLD BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL ANDREA X3829 LOST: A "Berenger" watch with a black band, a black lace, and gold Roman numerals. I lost it somewhere between Farley and the Center for Social Concerns on Monday morning. If found, PLEASE call Michelle x3879. The watch was a gift and is very, very important to me. LOST: 14 k Qold rooe chain bracelet on Stepan Football field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please contact Cara at x3847. LOST AT THE PUTTING GREEN: A Hogan Sl sandwedge x1930 LOST: A SET OF 4 KEYS ON THE OVALS BEHIND STEPEN CENTER. IF FOUND PLEASE  EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, JAMACIA AS PART-TIME CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. WANTED: NEWSPAPER CARRIERS. CALL SEAN @ 3068 FOR INFO I NEED 2-4 AIR FORCE STU/GA TIX!! CALL KEARY #4289I FORRENT STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991-92 SCHOOLYEAR.CALLCHUCK GLORE 232-1776. STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 8PM TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APTS 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALL JANE 271-1920 F R SALE: 12-inch lack & White Portable TVII! Excellent condition. Call x1208 and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer before midnight, Oct. 12th. SMALL DAY BED WITH BACK CUSHIONS, 29 x 72. EXCELLENT FOR STUDENT. $65.272-6194. 1981 oldsmobile, omega,4 speed,87000miles,good body, running well,$600 deadline: friday 239-5754,271-8858 SELLING AIR FORCE G.A. AND STUD. TIX!! Leave offer at 273­1308. '76 AUDI FOX; perfect body & mech. cond.; new paint, tires brakes, clutch, A!C, 32 MPG. $1250/offer. Call234-1196, 8­10:00 P.M. FORSALE:  Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John x1220 NEEDED: 2 AIRFORCE GAs FOR GRANDPARENTS CALL MARY X1727 HELP!! I need 1 Airforce GA! Willing to pay $$$$$$$$$. Karen X3847 *"WE NEED Air Force GA'sl; &WE have StAN. stud. tix (2) Can buy, trade or sell or mix call: 289-6046 or 233-3973 2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE 272-6459 I need one AF stud ticket Call Mary X2549 I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs & PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687 MIAMI TIX FOR SALE DAVE X3024 FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home games. Call Joe X1688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM 2 Miami Ga's to sell Call John after 6P.M. at (703) 528-8288. NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 234-7644 I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s CALLX3501 •• 1 Miami stud (sec. 30) for sale •• x1632 1need 2 Penn St. tix: G.A. or stud. Call John F. x 1622 4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905  U****FOR SALE****** One MIAMI STUD Best offer by 10/17 Call Tom x1808 FOR SALE: 2 married stud. tix AF, Miami, Penn St. Best Offer 287-5012 HELP -I need ONE Air Force GA!!!! PLEEEEASE call me 288-0597 Beth I need AIR FORCE tix-4 GA & 1 stud. Marty @ 288-1768 after 3:00 I NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME GAMES BRIAN 2049 Top Ten Reasons to Sell Mike Your Penn St. Student Ticket 10. It'll probably rain anyway. 9. It might even snow. 8. We always beat the Big 10. 7. YOU name the price. 6. I'm not as annoying as Edna and Earl. 5. Because my brother is coming, and he's really cool. 4. Because I promise this is the last Top Ten list from me. 3. YOU name the price. 2. I'm easy to reach at x4798. 1. You get to meet me. Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD EJ x1053 Need 4 GA's for AIR FORCE. Call Julia X3505 FOR SALE: Miami & AF STUD pair, AF GA. Best Offer by Fri.x3253. I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS! CALL TOM @ X 2259. MIAMI-For Sale-3 Miami Stu. tix 40 yd. line. Call and leave offer. 277-9080  for Air Force. Call3022 and name your price. Need two Air Force stud. or G.A.'s Please call Mike x4051 NEED 2 PENN ST GA's & STUDENT TICKETS. CALL STEVE @1453 NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X3797 HAVE 2 MIAMI MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS AND/OR LOTS OF$$$ TO TRADE FOR 4 PENN STATE GA' S. CALL 277-9869. RICH ALUM FROM SEATILE NEEDS FOUR AIR FORCE G.A.'S WILL PAY. GUS (206) 624-7990, 789-3497, COLLECT IF NECESSARY. I NEED 4 A. F. TIX CALL X3758 NEED PITISBURGH GA's CALL MATI #1159 WILL SELL AF MIAMI PENN STUD TIX TO BEST OFFER X4823,4819 MIAMITIX Have 2 Stud. TOGETHER Call X2169 with best offer 4-SALE: 4 AIR FORCE, 3 MIAMI STUD TIX 234-2728 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283-1818 and leave a message. Need 2 GA's and 2 STUDS for Miami. Call Bob at 233-8959. For Sale: 2 Stud Miami Tix BO by Thurs X2206 ••••••••so YD. LINE***•••• INDULGE YOURSELF !I !I MIAMI STUDENT TIXFORSALE LV. OFFER CHRIS #4814 ••••••••so YD. LINE**•••••  OR PENN ST. MATI X1213I PERSONALS J hi ag Dave, GOOD LUCK on your exams and interviews this week!!! Love, Anne THE SHIRT THE SHIRT THE SHIRT Faculty Faculty Faculty Graduate Students & Undergrad Students who want THE SHIRT can still buy them at the SUB Secretary's desk on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune! They make great Christmas Gifts and can also be bought at the Stanford Pep Rally!! (GATE 3 of ACC) GO IRISH BEAT CARDINAL! THE SHIRT THE SHIRT THE SHIRT GOING TO OR THROUGH KNOXVILLE, TN -OCT. BRK ­AFTER MIAMI?? I NEED A RIDE;WILL SHARE$$ CALL X1511 FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN CANCUN! COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATIONS LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN A FREE TRIP AND CASH. NOTHING TO BUY-WE PROVIDE EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE INFORMATION. Elizabeth-Anne Crisp is preparing for her 22nd Birthday on October 15th.  
- CALL ANDREW AT 1417!! Lost: 2 keys on a plain ring btwn oshag-Galvin-NDH please call x2661 if found Guess? WATCH FOUND 10/2 at Stepan Fields. Call Amy x1343 and describe it. HELP! I: I lost my DETEX around St. Joseph Lake Thursday morning (10/4). PLEASE call if you've j"'"~~ED I BABYSITIER WANTED: Looking for someone to watch 2 small children in my home. 4-8 hours a week.(flexible) wage negotiable. Transportation required. SPRING BREAK 1991 -Individual or student organization needed to promote Spring Break trip. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. CALL NOW!!! Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800­327-6013. JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give hundreds of employers (including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank One, the Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Procter & Gamble, and Random House) access to your resume through Targeted Recruiting Services (TRS). Only $10 before Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment kit plus a free Corporate Profiles Magazine, describing opportunites  2 A.F. STUD TIX CALL ANDREA OR MARfA X3829 I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-1364 YELLOW 18 CU. FT REFRIGERATOR--NO PROBLEMS $50 CALL 287-2587 II ST. LOUIS II 1 way SB to StL or rnd trip nonstop tix 4 SALE lv Oct 21 (rtn Oct 28) !"" 2385 nC~ I NEED4Air Force GA's Call John X3024 Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or GA Please call Matt X3024 Need Miami GAs & Studs Mike 273-1537 Need Miami stud tix  Need Air Force Tix. Students or G.A.s Call Paul at 1755 I COULD REALLY USE A PENN ST. TICKET-STUD or GA-call ALYSSA x3822 AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR SALE X1511 NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND PSUSTUD. CALL 1511 NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S. MONEY NOT A CONSIDERATION. RONX1913 SELLING STUD TIX to all home games up to 4 adj. MIAMI (day) 239-8232 (night) 273-1905 273-1723 We have tickets to all HOME games ! ! call Estevan or Ritchie @2275 MI-AM-I in need of Miami tix. stud. & GA's x4274 NEED MIAMI GA'S DIANE 273-9469 For Sale: 1 MIAMI St. Tix. 30-35 Yd. Line. Call JJ x1619 HAVE A.F. stud. tix.Need Miami stud.Will trade +Cash.Respond by 11 pm Weds.Callx2336 or x3709.  I KNOW I AM NOT THE ONLY ONE THAT NEEDS MIAMI GA's BUT I AM THE ONE WITH BIG BUCKS FOR THESE. call Krissy at 284­4350. DANKE!I 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE CALL CARRIE AT 4049 I HAVE 2 SETS OF AIR FORCE G.A.'S AT THE 50 YD. LINE. GREATSEATS! CALLFRANKAT X3646. LEAVE NAME AND OFFER IF NOT HOME HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 i Have Penn St. Students best offer 273-1364 $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609. NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!II JUST WON THE LOTIERY----­I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKSIll PLEASE CALL--I'M DESPERATE CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 need one or two PENN STATE GAs. Call monica at 283-4021 . Need two tickets to ND vs. USC game, student or GA's. Call Betsv at x3899.  SELL 2 STD MIAMI 1 AIR F 1 PENNST CALL LUIS 273-1528 NEED AIR FORCE G.A. MIKE X1626 AIR FORCE 2 GA'S & 2 STUD 4 SALE X 1167 OK, I STILL NEED TWO MIAMI STU. TIX. COUSINS FROM IRELAND COMING IN FOR THE GAME, #289-7221 KEVIN 2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE. TO HIGHEST BIDDER. 271-9552 FOR SALE: 1 AF and 1 MIAMI student. Call Krista between 1:00 and 3:00, X1292, leave offer. MY FELLOW DOMERS: I have two requests. 1) I need to trade two AIR FORCE Student Tickets for GA's. 2) I need to purchase one more AIR FORCE GA. If you can help in any of these two endeavors, please call MIKE AT X1788 I need MIAMI TICKETS!!! GA'S or Students. If you can help please call Kevin at 1409 PLEASE. I need 1 kind student ticket for Air Force!!! Please call Jim at 287-3087.  THANK YOU , ST. JUDE WHATS A GORCH? Video games colorful and new, Pool tables a brilliant blue, Smiling workers to help you, No, we don't have Miami tix. Come play with us... THEGORCHGAMESROOM IN LAFORTUNE What else are you going to do, study? AVID READER My own column? I'm all for it. My Life? I still want my backpack, but mild order has been restored. Are the personals your only source for entertainment? Wanna Know! CAROLINE Word to the Mother!! It's K-Watt's Birthdaylll We love you Happy Birthday Love, Jeni,Drea,&A-Irv Hey RED BANDANA MAN of MORRISSEY I enjoyed our halftime chat and am anxious to talk to you again How about a Bonnie Doon Rendevous? Bring TEAL BANDANA MAN w/ Cap Call... 284-5489 HALFTIME ADMIRERS  

for brothers, Dan x1795 
-

Tuesday, October 9, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Scoreboard 
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 
NFL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Record Pta
Eaal BASEBALL 1. Michigan (34) 3-1-0 1,453
W L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv National League 2. Virginia (14) 5-0·0 1,384
Butlalo 4 0 .800 130 99 3-0-0 1-1-0 4-1-0 0-0-0 2-1-0 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Announced that Don 3. Miami, Fla. (6) 3· 1-0 1,324
M1aml 4 1 0 .800 108 73 2-0-0 2-1-0 4-0-0 0-1-0 3-0-0 Aase, pitcher, has become a free agent by 4. Oklahoma (1) 5-0-0 1,244
lndnplis 2 3 0 .400 81 108 1-1-0 1-2-0 1-3-0 1-0-0 0-2-0 not accepting assignment to Albuquerque of 5. Tennessee (1) 3·0-2 1,235
NY Jets 2 3 0 .400 104 109 1-1-0 1-2-0 2-3-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 the Pacific Coast League . 6. Auburn 3-0-1 1'176
N England 4 0 .200 80 152 0-3-0 1-1-0 1-4-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 BASKETBALL 7. Nebraska (2) 5-0-0 1'145
Central National Basketball Association 8. Notre Dame 3·1·0 1 ,122
Clncnnatl 4 1 0 .800 137 t05 2-0-0 2-1-0 3-1-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 BOSTON CELTICS-Announced the retirement 9. Florida (1) 5-0-0 1,017
Cleveland 2 3 0 .400 78 t14 1-1-0 1-2-0 2-3-0 0-0-0 t-0-0 of Johnny Most, radio announcer. Named 10. Florida St. 4-1 ·0 993
Houston 2 3 0 .400 98 t08 t-1-0 1-2-0 2-1-0 0-2-0 0-t-0 Doug Brown radio color commentator. 
11. Illinois 3· 1 ·0 796
Pttsburgh 2 3 0 .400 68 84 2-t-0 0-2-0 2-3-0 0-0-0 1-1-0 NEW YORK KNICKS-Waived Tharon Mayes, 12. Houston (1) 4-0·0 763
West guard. 13. Brigham Young 4-1-0 751
LA Raldrs 4 0 .800 99 73 3-0-0 1-1-0 3-1 -0 1 -0-0 2-0-0 FOOTBALL 14. Colorado 4-1-1 705
Kan. City 3 2 0 .600 117 71 2·0-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 2-0-0 0-1-0 National Football League 15. Clemson 5· 1-0 690
Denver 2 3 0 .400 124 127 2·1·0 0-2-0 2-3-0 0-0-0 2-t-0 GREEN BAY PACKERS-Reinstated Herman 16. Southern Cal 4-1·0 667
Seattle 2 3 0 . 400 108 104 1-1 ·0 1-2-0 2-2-0 0-1-0 0-2-0 Fontenot, running back . 17. Washington 4-1-0 648
San Diego 1 4 0 .200 75 105 0-2-0 1-2-0 1-3-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Placed Gene 18. Georgia Tech 4·0·0 451
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Chilton, center, on Injured reserve. 19. Oregon 4-1·0 424
East HOCKEY 20. Texas A&M 4·1·0 395
W L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv National Hockey League 21. Arizona 4 ·1 ·0 319NYGiants 4 0 0 1 000 106 47 3-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 MONTREAL CANADIENS-Suspended Brian 22. Indiana 4-0-0 212
Washlngtn 3 1 0 .750 101 51 2-0-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 3-1-0 3-0-0 Hayward, goaltender, for missing practice. 23. Wyoming 6-0-0 132
Dallas 2 3 0 .400 70 102 2-1-0 0-2-0 1-0-0 1-3-0 0-3-0 Recalled Jean-Claude Bergeron, goaltender, 24. Mississippi 4-1-0 93Phlla 1 3 0 .250 91 95 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-2-0 from Fredericton of the American Hockey 25. Iowa 3-1-0 86Phoenix 3 0 .250 40 118 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 1-3-0 1-2-0 League. 
Other receiving votes: Texas 76, Ohio St.
Central COLLEGE 47, Texas Christian 43, Stanford 25,
Chicago 4 1 0 800 104 66 3-0·0 1-1-0 1-1-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 BIG EAST CONFERENCE-Extended an Michigan St. 24, Syracuse 16, South
Tampa Bay 3 2 0 600 108 110 1-1-0 2-1-0 0-0-0 3-2-0 3-0-0 invitation to Miami, Fla. to join the Carolina 15, Alabama 5, Toledo 4, Arkansas
Detroit 2 3 0 400 117 126 1·2-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 2-3-0 1-3-0 conference. 
3, California 3, Louisville 3, Missouri 3,Green Bay 2 3 0 .400 89 120 1-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 2-2-0 1-2-0 DARTMOUTH-Named Bob Ceplikas special Colorado St. 2, Penn St. 2, S. Mississippi 2,
M1nesota t 4 0 .200 116 103 1-2-0 0-2-0 0-1-0 1-3-0 0-3-0 assistant to the athletic director. LSIJ 1, N. Illinois 1.
West 
San Fran 4 0 0 1.000 82 59 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 
Alianta 2 2 0 500 102 94 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 1-1-0 
LA Rams 3 0 250 111 111 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 
New Orlns 3 0 .250 70 80 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-0-0-1-3-0 0-2-0 NHL STANDINGS 
Sunday'a Games Sunday's Games Detroit 34, Minnesota 27 San Francisco at Atlanta, 1 p.m.
Indianapolis 23. Kansas City 19 

Cincinnati at Houston, 1 p.m. WALES CONFERENCE 
Atlanta 28, New Orleans 27 

Detroit at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Patrick Division
M1ami 20, New York Jets 16 Pts ~ GA
Cleveland at New Orleans, 1 p.m. w L T 
Pittsburgh 36, San Diego 1 4 4 14 8
San Diego at New York Jets, 1 p.m. Pittsburgh 2 0 0 
San Francisco 24, Houston 21 1 3 10 11
Green Bay at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. New Jersey 1 
Seattle 33, New England 20 2 10 11
0 Dallas 14, Tampa Bay 10 7 10
Pittsburgh at Denver, 4 p.m. Washington 
Seattle at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. NY Islanders 2 0 2 
Cincinnati 34, Los Angeles Rams 31, OT 13 12
Dallas at Phoenix, 4 p.m. NY Rangers 2 0 2 
Chicago 27, Green Bay 1 3 9 9
New York Giants at Washington, 4 p.m. Philadelphia 2 0 2 Buffalo 38, Los Angeles Raiders 24 
Los Angeles Rams at Chicago, 7:30 p.m. Adams Division
OPEN DATE: New York Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Washington 4
OPEN DATE: Buffalo, Indianapolis, Miami, New Engl0md Boston 3 0 0 6 16 
Monday'• Game 5 14 11
Monday's Game Montreal 2 0 Cleveland 30, Denver 29 3 11 12
Minnesota at Philadelphia, 9 p.m. Hartford 1 
8 9 

Buffalo 0RESULTS Quebec 0 2 6 15 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE LEADERS Norris Division
Saint Miry's Soccer Pts ~ GA
T 4 11 9 Saint Mary's 4, Hope College 0 (Fri.) Chicago 2 0 
w L 
0 2 5 7 
Saint Mary's 4, Albion College t (Sun.) St. Louis 
The leading money winners on the 1990 The Women's Tennis Association money 1 2 0 2 9 11 
Minnesota ATP Tour through Oct. 7: leaders throuQh Oct. 7: 0 2 1 9 1~ 
Detroit

SPORTS CALENDAR 0 3 4 14
0 0
Toronto 1. Stefan Edberg $1,216,541 

1. Steffi Graf $1,044,070 Smythe Division Tundlty, October 9 2. Boris Becker $1,032,467 2. Martina Navratilova $1,041,380 3 0 0 6 11 6 
Calgary

Men's soccer at Butler, 7:30 p..m. 3. Ivan Landi $846,617 $885,924 0 3 6 5
3. Monica Sales 
Edmonton 4. Andres Gomez $791,475 1 3 
13

4. Gabriela Sabatini $648,533 Winnipeg 8 Wad-y, October 10 
5. Andre Agassi $785,212 0 2 7 7
5. Jana Novotna $513,482 Los Angeles
WOMEN'S SOCCER vs. Wisc.-MIIwaukee,6:00 
0 2 8 6 
Vancouverp.m. 

Monday's Games Tllursdloy, October 1 1 Montreal 5, Hartford 3 
6. 
Pete Sampras $732,697 


6. Zina Garrison $487,193
7. 
Goran lvanisevic $634,260

BASEBALL vs. Air Force, 7:30 p.m.at Coveleski 7. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario $420,749 N.Y. Rangers 6, Minnesota 3
8. Emilio Sanchez $542,324
Stadium 6. Helena Sukova $410,784 Calgary 4, Winnipeg 39. Brad Gilbert $511,803 
9. Natalia Zvereva $393,363 
Tuesday's GamesFrld8y, October12 10. Thomas Muster $492,597 
10. Mary Joe Fernandez $362,116 
Minnesota at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m.
BASEBALL vs. Air Force, 8:30 at Coveleski Field Pittsburgh at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m.
Women's Cross-Country at Indiana 
$303,163

11 . Jim Courier $401,745 11 . Katerina Maleeva Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.
lntercolleg1ates, 4:00 p.m. 
12. Andrei Chesnokov $382,253 12. Manuela Maleeva-Fragnir $268,324 Wednesday's Games 
13. Michael Chang $361,712 13. Nathalie Tauziat $240,006 Calgary at Detroit, 7:35 p.m.SERIES SCHEDULES 14. Guy Forget $360,708 14. Jennifer Capriati $234,915 Buffalo at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. 
15. $208,962
15. Jay Berger $343,184 Judith Wiesner Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m. 
Quebec at Toronto, 7:35 p.m.
PLAYOFFS 16. John McEnroe $342,305 16. Gigi Fernandez $204,595 Boston at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m.
National League 17. Jonas Svensson $336,760 17. Elizabeth Smylie $198,904Thursday, Oct 4 18. Jakob Hlasek $326,011 18. Larisa Savchenko $189,534Pittsburgh 4, Cincinnati 3 
Perez­Leila Meskhi $175,879
Fnday, Oct. 5 19. Guillermo 19. COLLEGE SCHEDULES Roldan $299,248 
20. Conchita Martinez $168,184
Cincinnati 2, Pittsburgh 20. Aaron Krickstein $297,603
Monday, Oct. 8 Cincinnati 6, Pittsburgh 3, Cincinnati $160 867 Saturday, Oct. 13 
21 . Gretchen Magersleads series 2-1 
' EAST MIDWEST 
21. Juan Aguilera $297,346 22. Mercedes Paz 158 328 Kent St. (0-5) at Ball St. (2·3)$ · Army (2-2) at Boston College (2-2) Tuesday, Oct. 9 22. David Wheaton $291,920 23. Patty Fendick $146,203 Richmond (1-4) at Boston U. (1·4) Western Michigan (3-2) at CentralCincinnati (Rijo 1 4-8) at Pittsburgh (Walk 
23. Jim Pugh $282,107 24. Nicole Provis $146,036 Holy Cross (3-1-1) at Brown (0-4) Michigan (4-1·1) 
7-5), 8:27 p.m. 
24. Mark Kratzmann $281,716 25. Lori McNeil $142,065 Princeton (2-2) at Bucknell (4·1) Indiana St. (2-4) at Eastern Illinois (2­Wednesday, Oct. 10 
25. Petr Korda $281,112 New Hampshire (4-0-1) at Colgate (4-4)
Cincinnati (Browning 1 6-9) at Pittsburgh 1) Purdue (1 -3) at Illinois (3-1) (Drabek 22-7), 8:27 p.m. $136,216 Yale (2-2) at Dartmouth (1-2-1) Southern Illinois (2·4) at Illinois St. (2­
26. Laura Giidemeister Friday, Oct. 12 $132,460 Fordham (1-3) at Harvard (2-2) 
4)
26. Scott Davis $262,080 27. Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 8:27 p.m., If 27. Sergi Bruguera $261 ,003 28. Barbara Paulus $130,422 Cornell (2-2) at Lafayette (3-2) 0hlo St. (2·2) at Indiana (4-0) 
Rhode Island (3-2) at Maine (0-5) Wisconsin (1-3) at Iowa (3-1) 
necessary 26. Karel Novacek $257,047 (tie) Helen Kelesi $130,422 Oklahoma St. (2·3) at Kansas St. (3­Connecticut (2-3) at MassachusettsSaturday, Oct. 13 
29. Martin Jalte $248,868 30. Amy Frazier $126,521 (3-0-1) 2) Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 8:27 p.m., If 30. Goran Prpic $247,928 Akron (3-2-1) at Navy (2-3) Michigan St. (1-2·1) at Michigan (3-1) 
necessary Lehigh (4-1) at Northeastern (1-4) Northwestern (1-3) at Minnesota (2-2) Columbia (0-4) at Penn (1 -3)
31. Robin While $125,860 Arkansas St. (3-2· 1) at Northern
American League 31. Derrick Rostagno $246,247 Syracuse (2-1-2) at Penn St. (2-2) 
Illinois (3-3) Saturday, Oct. 6 
32. Sandra Cecchini $119,339
32. Pieter Aldrich $243,827 Rutgers (2-3) at PittsburQh (2-2-1) 
33. Manon Bollegraf $116,751 SOUTH Western Illinois (1 ·4) at Northern Iowa Oakland 9, Boston 1 (3-2), Night 
33. Richey Reneberg $238,316 
34. Elna Reinach $115,746 Mississippi (4-1) at Georgia (3-2) 
34. Danie Visser $235,220
Sunday, Oct. 7 Missouri (2·3) at Nebraska (5-0) 
35. Dinky van Rensburg $113,216 Clemson (5-1) at Georgia Tech (4-0)
Oakland 4, Boston 1, Oakland leads series 35. Henri Leconte $228,880 Air Force (3-3) at Notre Dame (3-1) ­
Mississippi St. (2-2) at Kentucky (1-4), 2·0 Night 
Miami, Ohio (2-4) al Ohio U. (1-3-1) Bowling Green (1-3-1) at Toledo (5­
Tuesday, Oct. 9 Youngstown St. (6-0) at liberty (4-2)
36. Rachel McQuillan $106,596 0), Night
Boston (Boddicker 17-8) at Oakland Memphis St. (3-1-1) at Louisville (4-1· 
37. Ann Grossman $106,767 1) SOUTHWEST (Moore 13-15), 3:18 p.m. 
36. Grant Connell $227,864 
38. Brenda Schultz $106,244 Texas Tech (1 ·4) at Arkansas (2-2)
37. Kevin Curren $225,917 Wake Forest (2-3) at Maryland (3-3) 
Wednesday, Oct. 10 $102,682 Southern Methodist (1 -3) at Baylor (2­
38. Tim Mayotte $222,276 39. Kathy Jordan NW Louisiana (2-3) at McNeese St. 3)
Boston at Oakland, 3:18p.m. 
40. Claud'1a Porwik $101,749 (2-3), Night 
Thursday, Oct. 1 1 39. Amos Mansdorf $220,476 Texas A&M (4-1) at Houston (4-0) 
Kansas (1-3-1) at Miami, Fla. (3-1)Boston at Oakland, 8:27 p.m., If necessary 
40. Todd Woodbridge $220,290 North Texas (3-2) at Stephen F.Austin 
Tennessee-Martin (1 ·0) at Middle (1-4)
Saturday, Oct. 13 41. Raffaella Reggi $101,358 Tennessee (5-1) Texas (2-1) vs. Oklahoma (5-0) atOakland at Boston, 12:16 p.m., If 42. Nathalie Herreman $96,174 East Carolina (2-4) at South Carolina Dallas 
43. Anne Smith $90,660
necessary 41 . Peter Lundgren $218,961 (3-1) Alee (2-3) at Texas Christian (4-1), Sunday, Oct. 14 42. Michael Stich $217,928 44. Andrea Temesvari $90,332 Jackson St. (4-2) at Southern U. (3-Night 
Oakland at Boston, 8:27 p.m., If necessary 43. Rick Leach $215,340 45. Catarina Lindqvist $86,704 2), Night Southwest Texas St. (3-3) vs. Texas Florida (5-0) at Tennessee (3-0-2) Southern (4-2) at San Antonio
44. 
Omar Camporese $214,402 WORLD SERIES Hawaii (2-2) at Texas-EI Paso (2-4),

Western Kentucky (2-3) at Tennessee 

45. 
Richard Fromberg $213,307 46. Regina Rajchrtova $86,140 Tech (4-2) NightTuesday, Oct. 1 6 


47. Elise Burgin $83,891 Southern Mississippi (4-2) at Tulane Louisiana Tech (3-3) at Tulsa (1 -5),
American League champion at National 48. Claudia Kohde-Kilsch $83,699 (2-4), Night NightLeague champion, 8:32p.m. 46. Darren Cahill $213,289 49. Anne Minter $82,971 William & Mary (3-2) vs. VMI (2-3) at FAR WEST Wednesday, Oct. 17 47. Javier Sanchez $212,668 Norfolk, Va.
50. Kathy Rinaldi $80,649 California (3-2) at Arizona St. (2·2), AL at NL, 8:29 p.m. 48. Horst Skoff $212,456 North Carolina St. (4-2) at VIrginia (5-Night 
Friday, Oct. 19 49. Todd Witsken $212,334 0) Colorado St. (4·2) at Brigham Young Howard U. (5-0) at Virginia St. (3-3) (4-1)
NL at AL, 8:32 p.m. 50. Paul Haarhuis $211,619 Morgan St. (0-6) at Virginia Union (6-Iowa St. (2·2-1) at Colorado (4-1-1)Saturday, Oct. 20 
0) Utah St. (1-3) at Fresno St. (5-1),NL at Al, 8:29 p.m. 
Night 

Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
page 12 The Observer 
Wolverines become quickest team with loss to reach No. 1 
An early defeat didn't stop Michigan from an early rise to No.1. 
Losses by last week's top two teams lifted the once-beaten Wolverines to the top of The Associated Press college foot­ball poll Monday. It's the earli­est a team with a loss has been ranked No. 1, ever. 
"It's nice, but we've got a long way to go," coach Gary Moeller said. "If we're No. 1 at the end of the year, then we'll get excited." 
Michigan, which has won three straight since losing its opener to Notre Dame, replaced the Fighting Irish as the nation's No. 1 team. The Wolverines moved up from No. 3 after Notre Dame lost to Stanford 36-31 and then No. 2 Florida State was beaten by Miami 31-22 Saturday. 
Michigan received 34 first­place votes and 1,453 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcast­ers. Undefeated Virginia, which didn't play last week, was sec­ond with 14 first-place votes and 1;384 points. 
Once-beaten Miami jumped six spots to No. 3 with six first­place votes and 1,324 points. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Sailing Club will meet today at 6:30 
p.m.. The meetings are no longer held in the boathouse. Starting this Tuesday they will be held in Room 205A O'Shag. All members should attend. 
NVA CO-Ree Basketball. Entry deadline Oct. 10. Five team leagues consisting of five women and five men on a team. A fee of $20 is due with roster. Call NVA for complete rules. 
NVA lnterhall Volleyball. Men's and women's divisions. Rosters of at least seven members from same hall will be in five team round robin leagues. 
All varsity and novice rowers meet in 104 O'Shag at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. lOth. Bring your checkbooks. Uniforms will be sold, payment for fall break will be collected and Elkhart info will be fmalized. 
Rangers beat Lone Stars, 6-3 

NEW YORK (AP) -Bernie Nicholls had a goal and two as­sists in a three-goal first period as the New York Rangers won their home opener Monday night after two road defeats, beating the Minnesota North Stars 6-3. 
The Rangers, who lost in Chicago and Hartford, took a 3-0 first-period lead. Nicholls assisted on a goal by Darren Turcotte at 4:53 for his BOOth 
-
NHL point, scored his third goal of the season on a power play at 10:53 and assisted on a goal by Mike Gartner at 17:21, the 450th of Gartner's career. The Rangers, whose Patrick Division championship flag was raised in pregame ceremonies at Madison Square Garden, 
-
made it 4-0 on Mark Janssens' goal at 1:55 of the second perod. 
The North Stars, who split their first two home games, fell behind quickly as Nicholls fed a breakout pass to Turcotte, who roared down the right side and beat Minnesota goaltender Jarmo Myllys, who played on Finland's silver medal team at the 1988 Olympics. 
Rounding out the Top 10 are Oklahoma, Tennessee, Auburn, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Florida and Florida State. 
The No. 8 ranking is the low­
est  for  Notre  Dame  in  two  
years.  
Eight  teams  received first­ 

place votes, the most since 1985. Nebraska received two, while Oklahoma, Tennessee, Florida and No. 12 Houston each got one. All of those teams are unbeaten, although Tennessee has two ties and Auburn one. 
Michigan's ranking could also be good news for Michigan State, which plays the Wolverines on Saturday at Ann Arbor. The last two times the Wolverines were ranked first, they lost their next game. 
Michigan was No. 1 in the 1989 preseason poll, but lost its first game to Notre Dame. After taking over the top spot in 1977, the Wolverines were beaten the following week by Minnesota. 
Michigan fullback J arrod Bunch says the No. 1 ranking will be a factor against Michigan State. 
"It's more incentive for us to uphold it and more incentive 

Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
WAOR WELCOMES IN CONCERT 
Boxers: Veteran and novice, any and all, there is a mandatory meeting on Thursday, Oct. 11th at 9 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. All Notre Dame boxers must attend. Any questions, call Norm at 233­8133. 
Women's Off-campus football -meet for practice at 6 p.m. today in the north dome of the ACC. 
The top finishers in the NVA Golf Scramble Monday were: Kolar and Grace, 1st place (65); Morrissey and Benzinger, 2nd place (67); and Fleming and Miller, 3rd place (69). 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on Monday, Oct. 15th at 7 p.m. They were not held Monday the 8th as reported in the Observer. 
for them to knock us off," he said. 
Prior to this week, no team with a loss had been ranked No. 1 before November. The earliest No. 1 ranking for a once-beaten school had been Nov. 13, 1950, when Ohio State took over the top spot with a 6­1 record. 
Ohio State, which was 20th last week, is one of four teams that dropped out of the Top 25 after losing on Saturday. The others, with last week's rank­ings, are Michigan State (18), Arkansas (21) and Fresno State (24). 
Moving into the rankings were No. 22 Indiana, No. 23 Wyoming, No. 24 Mississippi and No. 25 Iowa. Indiana and Wyoming are undefeated, while Mississippi and Iowa each have one loss. 
It's the first poll appearance for Mississippi in four years. Indiana and Wyoming haven't been ranked since 1988. 
Illinois is ranked 11th, fol­lowed by Houston, Brigham Young, Colorado, Clemson, Southern Cal, Washington, Georgia Tech, Oregon, Texas A&M and Arizona. 
Belles defeat Hope, Albion, now 9-1-1 
By TASHA TIGHT "The team started slug­Sports Writer gishly in the first half," said coach Tom Van Meter, "but 
The Saint Mary's soccer the team showed intensity team was victorious this and execution throughout weekend with two big wins, the second half and pulled one over Hope College 4-0 on away victorious." Friday and another over The Belles soundly de­Albion College 4-1 on Sunday feated Hope College under afternoon. the leadership of senior co­
The Belles record now captain Trish Troester. The stands at 9-1-1. team dominated play 
The team capped the week­throughout the game and ev­end off by defeating Albion ery player was able to con­College after a slow start in tribute to the win. the first half. Dalsaso, Gilliland, Marcia 
Gaus, and Troester led the 
The team struggled in the team with one goal each beginning of the game and while goalkeeper Mary Alice ended the half with the score O'Neill recorded her sixth at 1-1. The Belles pulled to-shutout of the season. gether in the second half "The game against Hope when they found numerous opened up opportunities for scoring opportunities on all the players to get playing which to capitalize. time," said Coach Tom Van 
Megan Dalsaso led the Meter. "Trish Troester, team with two goals. especially, had one of her Freshman Amy Ross and -best games of the season." Junior Greer Gilliland each The team faces University added one goal to the Belles of Chicago today at 4 p.m. at scoring effort. Saint Mary's Field. 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE
(/) 
1-l-1 

PRESENTS 
~ ~ 
0 
1-l-1

02 
<t: ~TROJAN ~ 
f­
(./') 0 

" WOMEN
z 0 BY EURIPIDES 
0 ~ 

WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
~ 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM DIRECTOR FRIDAY, OCT. 5 8:10PM REGINALD BAIN SAT.. OCT. 6 8:10PM 
SET & LIGHTS SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM KEVIN DREYER(./') WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM COSTUMES
THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM RICHARD DONNELLY 
~ FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM 
0'--SAT., OCT. 13 8:10PM STAGE MANAGER SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM TONY Bosco 
0 ~ 

TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SEN CIT, WED THU & SUN
0'-­

AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT
0'-­

LAFORTUNETICKET0FFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA 
~ 

ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
==~=======:===========:=:=:==============:=========================================================================:tuf~i~r=;;r=========================================
I --B~/)!j &; f~
D 

Would You Lite To Know More About the Urban Plunae7 
...Information Meeting ..• »> Tuesday. October 9 6:30P.M. 
:::: Location: The Center For Social Concerns 
:::: 
~ Btloa Your Frloodolll 
~ 

!Ill ~=~~.;.::a::!un~Uw l!ll 
~ ~ :;:; Come bear students wbo bave parUdpllted-~;~; ;:~; aiODQ wtlh SUe eunntnalwD. Coordlna\or cl tbe UP ;:;: 
::::-~:::: 
1111+ ~ !111 
::;:ii::J::= & :::: 
·=··~,.. ·.·. 
~t..::.::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:&:::::::::::::::::.:.;:;:;:::::;;;;m:m::;:::::::::;:;::k 
--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~-------------~~--------------~ 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 

AP Photo Barry Larkin and the Cincinnati Reds overcame a batting slump and beat Pittsburgh 6-3 in Game 3 of the National League Championship. 
·----·------~ 
The Observer 
page 13 
Reds take 2-1 N LCS lead as bats awaken vs. Pirates, 6-3 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Cincinnati Reds broke their hit­ting slump and Zane Smith's magic on Monday to take a 2-1 lead over the Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League playoffs. 
Neither team did much hitting in the first two games, combin­ing for only 10 runs and 23 hits. But the surprise was how easily the Reds got to Smith for a 6-3 victory. 
In 10 starts for the Pirates after being acquired from Montreal on Aug. 8, Smith gave up nine earned runs in 75 in­nings. In Game 3, the Reds got five runs off Smith in five in­nings. 
The power came from unlikely sources, too. 
Former Pirate Billy Hatcher hit a two-run homer in the sec­ond inning and Mariano Duncan snapped a 2-2 tie with a three-run homer in the fifth and drove in another run in the ninth with his third hit of the game to make it 6-3. 
Game 4 is scheduled for 8:18 
p.m. Tuesday night as first­game starters Jose Rijo of the Reds and Bob Walk of the Pirates go at it again. 
The Reds scored only 20 runs in their last nine regular-season games and showed no signs of breaking out of it in the first two games. 
Both teams, however, got their wish in Game 3 as the skies were a steely gray and the shadows of Friday's mid-after­noon start were no problem. 
Hatcher opened the fifth with a double and moved to third on 
winning  pitcher  Danny  
Jackson's  sacrifice.  Barry  
Larkin,  in  a  6-for-27  slump,  

reached on an infield single with Hatcher holding at third. 
Duncan then hit a hanging curve over the left-field fence. The Reds second baseman was 0-for-8 in the playoffs and had only four hits in his previous 30 at-bats. 
Hatcher gave the Reds a 2-0 lead when he homered to left after Joe Oliver singled with two outs in the second. 
The Pirates traded Hatcher to the Reds on April 3 for minor leaguers Mike Roesler and Jeff Richardson. 
Jackson was sharp in the first two innings but then ap­peared to lose a little velocity. 
The Pirates tied the score with two runs in the fourth inning, and it could have been worse. 
Jay Bell led off with a double, Andy Van Slyke walked and Bobby Bonilla singled home a run. One out later, Carmelo Martinez doubled to tie the score and Don Slaught was in­tentionally walked to load the bases. 
But Jackson struck out Jose Lind and got Smith on a bouncer back to the mound to end the inning. The Pirates had the bases loaded and two outs in the fifth inning but Martinez popped out to short. 
Jackson, 6-6 during the sea­son, was replaced by Rob Dibble after Lind doubled with one out in the sixth. Dibble struck out pinch-hitter Gary Redus and Jeff King to end the threat. 
On three occasions this sea­son, Jackson was on the dis­abled list but he finished strong. In his final three starts, the left-bander gave up five runs in 21 innings. 
Dibble worked 1 2-3 innings before Norm Charlton relieved to start the ninth. 
American League? A's having fun at Sox expense 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -A day before the American League playoffs started, some Boston pitchers went to a bat­ting cage buried beneath the F1mway Park bleachers to take a few swings. 
They wanted to brush up on their hitting -or, in some cas1~s. try it for the first time ­so they'd be ready to bunt or whatever in the World Series. 
On their way, they walked past a group of Oakland pitch­ers. The Athletics didn't say much, but their stares did: Don't bother, boys. 
In actions and in words, these Athletics seldom fail to get their message across. 
Fast forward to Game 1. Oakland trailed 1-0 in the sev­enth inning, but had a runner on first base, pinch hitter Jamie Quirk at the plate and Rickey Henderson on deck. 
Henderson hears everything the crowd yells at him, and often talks back. It's how he relaxes, the way he gets ready 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
in 

LONDON,ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 10, 1990 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
1990 Cora{ 1Jodge Irisli :fa{{ C{assic 
:J{ptre 'Dame vs. J!ir :Force 
%urstfay, Octo6er 11, 7:00pm :Jritfay, Octo6er 12, 8:30pm Covefes/(j Suufium, Soutli 'Bent£ 
Tree 6us transportation 


Leaving tfie :Main (jate starting at 6:00 %urstfay anti from (jate 10 fo{wwing tfie Pep 'Rg{[y :Jritfay 
Irisli 'Base6a{{ is 6acf(J 
•'Jru cufmission with. 'B{ue and (joft£ Card 
to make things happen. 
So when a couple of guys in the third-base box seats began razzing him, Henderson stopped adjusting his neon­green batting gloves and turned around. 
"It's just a matter of time," he said, smiling. 
Quirk singled, Henderson hit a tying sacrifice fly and Oakland was on its way. By the ninth, it was 7-1 when Henderson walked to the plate with the bases loaded and two outs. 
Wait, one last piece of busi­ness before leaving the artificial turf square that serves as the on-deck area at Fenway. He looked back at the same seats, some of them now empty. 
"It's time," he said, and then hit a two-run single. 
On to the aftermath of Game 2, a 4-1 victory Sunday night that put the World Series champions in a familiar posi­tion -on track for another 
BUY IT FOR ·'TilE CAUSE" 
sweep. Both teams are talking about fun, in different ways. 
"This is a winning team," Willie McGee said in the bustling Oakland clubhouse. "I've played on winning teams from the Little League on, and there's something about them where they're all pulling to­gether. It's just fun to play on a team like that." 
Across the way, in the quiet Red Sox locker room, reliever Larry Andersen presents an­other perspective. 
"Let's go out and have fun," he said. "If we get swept, ev­erybody will say, 'See, I told you so.' If we win, then it's a bonus." 
Not hard to tell which team is having more fun, is it? 
The Red Sox hope for some­thing better Tuesday when they send 17-game winner Mike Boddicker against struggling Mike Moore (13-15) in Game 3. But it's hard to blame Boston for feeling things might not im­prove. 
Earn
.. 
while you learn. 
Manpower is looking for students interested in earning great pay -plus commissions. We oHer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience. Plus free use of a personal computer. 
If you're a fuR-time student, Sophomore or above, with at least a B average and are computer lamHiar. Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. 
For experience that pays, can today 
Manpower, Inc. 320 W. LaSalle Ave. 234-0157 Contact: Kim Hall 
...-r---~-p-a-ge-14__________ ------~-~ 
The Observer 

Stanford overwhelms women, 9-0
I 
I 
I By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
t Sports Writer 
Stanford University brought its women's tennis team to Eck Tennis Pavilion ranked first in the nation. Not having lost a match in nearly three years, Friday's meeting with 
the 25th-ranked Irish looked easy for the Cardinal, as they swept Notre Dame 9-0. 
Despite the absence of Sandra Birch, ranked second in the nation, Stanford still had three of the top 11 NCAA players in the nation. Debbie Graham, the 1990 NCAA singles champion, took on Irish number one Tracy Barton, ranked 34th, in the top-seed match. Barton played well against the nation's top-ranked player, losing 6-4, 6-4. 
"I think Graham was surprised 
that Barton hit the ball as hard as 
she did," ·said Irish coach Jay 
Louderback. "Tracy always hits the 
ball hard, but sometimes doesn't 
come to the net to back it up. She did 
a lot more of that against Graham." 
At number two, Notre Dame fresh­
man Christy Faustmann faced 
Cardinal senior Teri Whitlinger. 
Ice 
continued from page 16 
past few years. 

Dance team Wynne and Druar. who turned professional in August after placing fourth in the world this year, began the figure skating portion of the show with a jazzy routine that featured synchronized tapping and some saucy flips and twirls. 
In perhaps the most daring of the exhibitions, Carz and Williams, who will vie this year for the national and world pairs' titles, shocked the audi­ence with some death-defying moves. Perfectly executing the "bounce spin," which is banned from competition, Williams lifted Carz high above his head and spun his partner by her ankles while her head bobbed precariously above the surface of the ice. 
"I think this was the most successful (of these exhibi­tions)," said Carz. "The college atmosphere really made it fun." 
"We're trying to interest skaters of all levels," said Sarah Balwin, the manager of special events and promotions for NutraSweet. 
Monday's exhibition marked the first time NutraSweet in­cluded hockey on its sched.ule. David Bankoske slapped in two goals to lead the White team to a 5-1 win over the Blue squad. Robert Copeland, Tom Arkell and Matt Cronin also scored 
for the White while Dan Marvin tallied the Blue's only goal. 
Locker 
continued from page 16 

the players to shower. dress, 
and walk into the media room, 
they will lose valuable time and 
have trouble meeting their 
deadlines. 

This is a valid complaint. But realistically, allowing an extra 15-20 minutes for the players to "get decent" will not increase deadline pressure much more. The reporters will still manage to get their story; they always do. 
In my opinion, the women's 
right to equal access and the 
players' right to privacy should 
outweigh any considerations of 
deadline pressure. It is in the 
best interests of everybody in­
volved to have players brought 
to a separate media room after 
the game. 

seventh-ranked Whitlinger -downed Faustmann 6-4, 6-0. Despite the loss, Faustmann gained experience. 
"It was a really good opportunity for me to be able to play so high and against such a good player," she said. "We weren't expected to do anything outstanding, but we all went out and did our best." 
Two freshmen clashed at the num­ber-three slot, Stanford's 11th­ranked Laxmi Poruri and Notre Dame's Terri Vitale. Poruri, too, won in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3. The last of the Irish freshmen, Lisa Tholen, confronted Stanford's Heather Willens. Tholen, who had an unde­feated showing at LSU in late September, was defeated 6-2, 6-0 by the sophomore. 
Louderback thought that the freshmen each learned from their matches against Stanford. 
"All three of them saw that college tennis is a more aggressive game, with more coming to the net, than they faced in high school," he said. 
The remainder of the singles matches pitted Irish players Kim Pacella and Kristy Doran against Marlo Carruth and Emma Woodhouse, respectively. Each Stanford player contributed to the Cardinal win by taking her Irish op­ponent in straight sets. Louderback, however, was pleased with his senior captain Pacella's performance. 
"Pacella has played well all fall, but had a tough match at LSU, and some problems with the heat," said Louderback. "In losing (7-5, 6-4), she made a comeback." 
The Cardinal doubles tandem of Whitlinger and Poruri down,ed Barton and Faustmann, the number one Irish team, 6-1, 6-2. The other two doubles matches, however, were closer. Willens and Carruth defeated Vitale and Tholen 7-5, 6-3. The num­ber 3 doubles team of Doran and ju­nior Katie Clark won the only set for the Irish, and nearly won a match before going down 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) to Carina Rolley and Woodhouse. 
"(Clark and Doran) had a few match points, and played as well as I have ever seen them play," said Louderback. 
"When we went in, I don't think our players expected to win. But if we play well and get some breaks, we can beat those teams." 
I would've bought aMacintosh even without the student discount. 
Greg Gallant Consumer Economics ond Housing Cornell University 
"The first time Isaw aMacintosh, Iwas immediately hooked. It's awork ofart. Isawthe student pricing and my next move was obvious: get one. "Some other computers are cheaper, but they're apain to learn, and working on them can be a grueling experience. Last year, afriend bought ,~··, .....,,,....:::._.. anotherkind ofcomputeragainst my advice ··· /'-<::;~~;:;:(~~~\ an~~ ~~~~~~or maybe 15 hours. 
-·-M---·-~-~---~............-___..,.;.;..,...,._
...,..________
h~--.-~.......-·•·u.··---------............ 
---­
···-~--.. --~------­

. '. . ' • ,. . • ····~· . I. • • ' . .. • •. ." . 
""-" .,,~ '"'"; •·:~:· ,.•,, •:,.,_..,..,1~.·.·•-~!•• ;.~ ,~-'l~'·:O"'.•w:....,..--~·.••<·-··•\~-1'•:.-J.,.'.-'-··~·· ._,., ............ , .• ,.:.,~-.,;;t"~·::r.,~:a-:~•,"l'·~ ., 
"Macintosh, on the other hand, is alogical extension of the mind. It lets you concentrate on what's in your paper, not : " on how to get it on paper.
;f:\ 
._ ·'~'' You can create profes­sional-looking docu­ments in minutes, and 
you lose the fear of 
learning new pro­grams becausethey all work in the 
same way. "Once you've worked with aMacintosh, there's no turning back~' 
For more information, please contact: 
'iO IIH. IJ \\11­1"0\11'1 II R S I OIU 
Offic~ of Umversity Computmg Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00. 5:00 
Why do people love Macintosh~'? 
Ask them. 

C 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Appkt logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. 
--~ -------~-----~---~--~­
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 

Tuesday, October 9, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Tuesday 
12:15-1:15 p.m. "Insurance Review and Evaluation," .Joyce Wegs. Hoom 121, Hayes-Healy. 
12:10-12:50 p.m. "Basic Car Care 1," Marty Ogren, Chief Mechanic, University of Notre Dame. Transportation Center (Maintenance Building). 
4:30 p.m. "Will Animal Research Survive Animal Hights?" Dr. Hichard Doyle, St. Louis University School of Medicine. Auditorium (Room 283), Galvin Life Science Center. 
12 p.m. "Cuba and the New World Economy: The Challenge of Cuba's Integration to Latin America and the Caribbean," Pedro Monreal, Faculty Fellow, Kellogg Institute. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
3:30 p.m. Earnest W. Thiele lecture: Chemical Engineering. Prof. Gerald G. Fuller, Stanford University. Hoom 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Admission Free. 
3:45 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Dynamic Control of Aerodynamic Instabilities in Turbomachines," Prof. Edward M. Greitzer, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Room 303, Cushing Hall, Engineering Building. Admission Free. 
4 p.m. "Fads Diets vs. Good Diets," Chef Denis Ellis, University Food Services, Becky Cook, Eating Disorders Therapist/Dietician, Memorial Hospital. Notre Dame Hoom, LaFortune Student Center. Admission Free. Sponsored by the Year of the Women. 
CAMPUS

Tuesday 
4 p.m. Soccer game: Saint Mary's vs. The University of Chicago. SMC soccer field. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Pasta Bar Irish Fried Flounder Eggs Foo Yung 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

61 Above 62--mater 63 Prevent 64 Weathercock 65 Equal 66 Unit of force 67 Terminates 68"-0uam 
Videri" (N.C. motto) 
DOWN 
1 Rough files 2 Conspicuous 
success 3 Bolt together 4 Lawful sAn edible 
starch 6 -Griffin of 
TV and Wall St. 7 Part of HOMES a Defeats an 
opponent 9 Inflexible 10 Part of a fishhook 11 Exchange premium 
ACROSS 
1 Virginia-­5 Hooded merganser 9 Opposite of 
"Vive!" 13 Hardwood tree 14 Air: Comb. form 15 Saying 16 Plod 
17 Smile broadly 
18 "Last Tango in --," Brando film 
19Como recording: 1954 22 Gravestone 23 Macaw 24 Small island 27 Suitai;Jjlity" 

31 Fr. holy woman 34 Shot from a 
hidden position 36 Turkey-­37 Holbrook or 
Linden 

38 Possessions 40 Wrath 41 Exclamation of 
regret 43 Natural ability 44 Short sleep 45Fringed­
(N.A. flower) 47 Mil. award 48 Actress Jill ian 49 Ship's poles 54 Checker 
recording: 1961 60 Medley of skits 

42 Height 46 Atlas feature so Yawning 51 Transactions 52 Multiplied by 53 Gin 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B-=:-+7-+-:~~ -=++++-!--1111111-=-i-.!....j.:=-! 12 His, in Aries i-=-1-~..:..j,j,~-i..::..R~:,.:.. ;.;,;..,;.j..:..:..j.::..+=-+.-=-! 15 Separately 
20 Let 
unmarried women 
26 Creature of great size 
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 



32 Fiction 33 Verve 35 Companion 39 Mouth: Comb. 
form 
SPELUNKER 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
VERONICA, I II·UNK. PERHAR5 W£'RE G,ROWINIIJ APART. 


Women's Issues & Today's Catholic Universities 

A lecture by Dr. Ronda Chervin 8 PM Hayes Healy Auditorium (Rm 122) Tuesday October 9 (FREE) SUB & Year of Women 
THE

~'*YEAROF 
~DMEN) 

----~--~-----~---~------­
Sports 
Tuesday, October 9, 1990 
Kenyon Meyer (14) looks on as the ball gets away from the Valparaiso goalie earlier this season. The Irish take to the road for Butler tonight. 
Men's soccer faces MCC test 
Irish appear to have found defense, to play Butler today 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame soccer team, which has not allowed a goal in its past three games, travels to Butler today to meet the Bulldogs in a Midwestern Collegiate Conference match. 
Butler (9-2) is fourth in the MCC with a 2-2 conf~pmce record and has outscored op­ponents by a margin of 46-14. Scott Lawler, who leads the MCC in scoring with 11 goals and seven assists, and Jeff Kurtz (six goals, four assists) will lead the Bulldog attack. Goalkeeper John Cone has recorded six shutouts to date this season. 
"We know they're one of the top teams in the MCC," Irish co­captain Danny Stebbins says. "They're really scoring a lot of goals." 
Today's game may be a matchup between an unstop­pable force and an immovable object, though, since the Irish (3-6-3) have not given up many goals lately. Goalkeeper Peter Gulli (1.07 GAA) has recorded shutouts in Notre Dame's last three games. 
"We're trying to set it in our minds that we want a shutout each game," Stebbins says. "We are trying to concentrate on 


Danny Stebbins 
that every game. Peter Gulli had kind of a rough start, and he needed to gain some confidence in himself. Once we started playing together as a team, though, we developed confi­dence in each other and confi­dence in Peter, and he's played well lately." 
The Irish have had some problems, however, putting the ball in the goal lately. They have scored just two goals in its past six games, both of those coming in a 2-0 victory over Ohio State last Friday night. 
Sophomore forward Kevin Pendergast (six goals, four as­sists) continues to lead thf team in scoring even though he hasn't scored since a 6-0 vic­tory over Valparaiso on Sept. 17. 
Junior wingback Kenyon Meyer (five goals, one assist) and Stebbins (three goals, one assist), both who scored against Ohio State, willalso try to add some punch to the Notre Dame attack. 
Although they haven't scored many goals lately, the Irish seem encouraged by the fact that their defense is coming around. They seem to think that if they can continue to im­prove as the season progresses, they will be ready to challenge MCC leaders Saint Louis and Evansvillle for the conference tournament title and earn a bid to the NCAA tourney. 
"That is our ultimate goal," Stebbins says. "We want to win the MCC playoffs and go to the NCAAs. We are playing better right now, so we think we have a good chance of making it." 
The Irish have their work cut out for them. They are 1-3-1 in the MCC at this point in the season, and they still haven't played powerful Evansville. 
NOTES-The Irish are 0-4 when trailing at halftime, but 2-0 when they score the first goal 
Holtz, Hamill, Bowman skate to benefit Irish hockey team 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Lou Holtz finally got his mir­acle, but it wasn't until Monday night and it wasn't on the foot­ball field. 
Instead, former Olympic and World Champion Dorothy Hamill, using what she called "a little magic of my own," transformed Holtz from a wobbly novice on skates to a twirling, jumping performer at the "Irish on Ice" figure skating and hockey exhibition at the Joyce ACC. 
"I practiced all Saturday afternoon," joked Holtz. After Hamill locked the Notre Dame football coach inside a closet in the middle of the rink and chanted her magic words, a beefier, more confident skater 
Art Lambert submits resignation 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal yesterday ac­cepted the resignation of Art Lambert, who had been the Irish volleyball coach since 1984. 
Maria Perez, in her second season as an assistant under Lambert, will handle coaching duties for the remainder of the 1990 Irish season. According to Rosenthal, Lambert will finish out the year serving on the ath­letic department administrative staff. 
"We're certainly appreciative of the contributions Art has made during his seven years as head coach," Rosenthal said. "Our volleyball program has made great strides in the last 
emerged and wooed the crowds. 
The capacity crowd soon real­ized that the transformed skater was really 1989 U.S. men's champion Christopher Bowman, but Holtz and Hamill's other pupils, Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal, Associate Athletic Director Joe O'Brien and Irish hockey coach Ric Shafer enjoyed their free lessons from the star. 
In addition to the instruc­tional period, the show featured performances by Bowman, 1990 World Champion Jill Tre­nary, 1990 U.S. pairs bronze medalists Sharon Carz and Doug Williams and two-time national dance champions Su­san Wynne and Joseph Druar, as well as a single-period in­trasquad game by the Notre Dame Hockey team. 
The crowd cheered enthusias­

'!i 
Marla Perez 
half-dozen years, and Art cer­tainly deserves the credit for the student athletes he has brought to Notre Dame and the manner in which he has built the program." 
Since taking over the Irish six years ago, Lambert has guided Notre Dame to national promi­tically throughout the event, which NutraSweet and the United States Figure Skating Association sponsored to cele­brate October as lee Skating Month and to benefit the Notre Dame varsity hockey program. 
Bowman, the 1990 world bronze medalist, returned to the ice for a dramatic perfor­mance that ended the show. Im­itating a rock star, "Bowman the Showman" elicited screams and cheers from the audience as he executed double and triple jumps, before finally rip­ping open his shirt in the finale. 
In contrast, three-time na­tional champion Trenary was a picture of beauty and grace as she floated across the ice, demonstrating for the crowd of 2,500 why she has dominated woman's figure skating for the 
see ICE I page 14 
nence. He took over a team that finished 11-30 in 1983 and turned the Irish into a factor on the national volleyball scene almost immediately. 
Despite facing an upgraded schedule, he coached Notre Dame to its two winningest seasons in history in 1986 and 1987, as the Irish finished 33-7 and 30-9 and claimed North Star Conference title each year. That marked the first time Notre Dame had put together back-to-hack winning seasons. 
The Irish then made their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance in 1988. Notre Dame finished 19-12 that sea­son, defeating Penn State in a first-round NCAA matchup be­fore falling to eventual final­four participant Illinois. 
Notre Dame will travel to Chicago tonight to meet MCC foes Loyola and Marquette. 

Locker room issue: Need equal access 
Over the past few weeks there has been a lot of debate about whether female reporters should be allowed in locker rooms to talk with athletes after games. 
•Coach Sam Wyche of the Cincinnati Bengals was fined $30,000 for subverting National Football League policy by barring a 
Ken Tysiac woman reporter from the Bengals' 
locker room after last Monday World of Sports night's game against Seattle. 
• 
Boston Herald reporter Lisa Olson reportedly was harassed by several naked players in the New England Patriots' locker room Sept. 17. Olson has since reported receiving death threats and has left the country for fear of her safety. 

•An 
unidentified, unclothed Arizona football player challenged Orange County Register reporter Karen Crouse in the Rose Bowl locker room in Pasadena after the Wildcats' 28-21 win over UCLA Saturday. The player, referring to the Olson incident, confronted Crouse, saying, "What are we, in New England?" Arizona officials later apologized for the incident. 


Obviously this is a very touchy subject. Whenever you set issues as important as "freedom of the press" and "the right to privacy" at odds with each other, sparks are going to fly. 
At Notre Dame Stadium, male reporters are allowed into the locker rooms after games. Female reporters are not. 
I agree with the University's stand that female reporters should not be allowed in the locker room after the game when players are showering and dressing. I think all of us, males and females alike, would feel a little bit uncomfortable having fully dressed members of the opposite sex ask us questions while we were stark naked. 
But I also think that discriminatory locker room policies provide an unfair advantage to male reporters. Let's face it, if a man can go into the Notre Dame locker room to get quotes after a game, but a woman can't, the sports editor of whichever paper happens to be doing the story is going to give the assignment to the man. 
And in fact, if the truth must be known, the locker room experience is not exactly uplifting for a male reporter, either. It is a very uncomfortable feeling to have to interview a player who clearly wants to dress in privacy. 
The only solution to this problem is to institute a separate room where the players can be brought after they shower and dress. There they can be interviewed by all members of the media, male and female, and nobody will have unfair access to the players after the game. 
Of course there is a drawback to this proposal. Most reporters have strict deadlines and often they are in a hurry to get their quotes after the game. If they have to wait for 
see LOCKER I page 14 




