
VOL. XXIII NO. 49 FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
150,000 more military personnel sent to Gulf 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Thursday ordered massive land and sea additions to the U.S. military force in the Persian Gulf to give "an ade­quate offensive option" if needed to drive Iraq from Kuwait. 
Bush's order will add more than 150,000 military person­nel to the 230,000 U.S. troops already in the area. 
He ordered troops and tanks 
• Draft possible? I page 8 
transferred from Europe, sent in new warships and called up combat-ready National Guard units. 
Bush, asked directly whether he was going to war against Saddam Hussein, said: "I would like to see a peaceful solution to this question." 
"If this movement of force is what convinces him, so much the better." Bush said. "Let's hope he comes to his senses," he added. 
Ih1fense Secretary Dick Ch­eney, giving dntails of the new buildup, said it would include two armored divisions and smaller armored units from (;ermany and a division from thn United States, the famous "Big Hed One" First Infantry Division (Mechanized) based at Fort Hiley, Kans. 
Neither he nor Bush would say just how many troops would be joining the 230,000 
U.S. forces already in the gulf area. 
However. full deployment of the units listed by Cheney would add more than 150,000 troops to the U.S. forces there, Pentagon officials said in private conversations. Even 
Autumn foliage 
without sending all of their support units, the additional combat and essential support forces total about 100,000. 
Iraq has more than 400,000 troops in the region. 
Cheney said the Navy would send three additional aircraft ca.rrier battle groups and their escorts, the battleship USS Missouri and a second Marine amphibious group of 5,000 men. 
And, the defense secretary said, combat-ready National Guard brigades -the 48th in Georgia, the 155th in Missis­sippi and the 256th in Louisiana -would be called up for the first time, for possible reassignment to the Middle East. They total about 10,000 people. 
Also, Cheney said, the Air Force "probably" would also send reinforcements. 
Hundreds of additional tanks will be deployed, the secretary said. 
"Whether it will be adequate in the event of going to war with Saddam Hussein's army, I'm not going to speculate," said Gen. Colin Powell, chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Bush's escalation of the U.S. gulf presence was greeted with skepticism from congressional Democrats. 
"I am concerned that the administration is moving to establish an offensive capacity in advance of a U.N. resolution authorizing offensive action," said Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Claiborne Pell, D-R.I. 
Pell said the international trade embargo against Iraq has not yet had "a decent chance to 
see TROOPS I page 1 0 


Today, a few days before the first anniversary of the opening of the border, a painted segment of the Berlin Wall has been placed in front of the Brandenburg Gate commemorating the former division of the city. 
ND,SMC to discuss German unity 
By CORINNE PAVLIS 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In an collaborative effort, four Saint Mary's and Notre Dame professors will present a panel discussion to commemorate the first anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
Organized as .a cooperative effort between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, a lecture entitled, "Germany and Europe: One Year After the Fall of the Berlin Wall," will take place at Saint Mary's today at 3:30p.m. 
The Saint Mary's panelists will be Robert Ladrech, assis­tant professor of political science, and Jurgen Brauer, 


Each panelist will speak for approximately 10 to 15 minutes on an area of his expertise, in relation to the problems of transition for Germany during unification. 
Ladrech, whose specialty is electoral politics, will focus on the German elections which are less than a month away. Ladrech will also address the broader issue of the impact of German unification on the rest of the European Community. 
Lad.rech is responsible for organizing the panel and hopes that more joint events will be sponsored by the two campuses. It is rare to find 
see UNION I page 5 


ND Jerusalem program on hold 
By JOHN CRONIN 
News Writer 

The heated political tension in the Middle East has forced Notre Dame to cancel its Jerusalem program for the spring 1991 semester. 
"Based upon information from the State De­partment as well as feedback from Notre Dame people on the scene in Jerusalem, we have concluded that the current political situation presents a poor ambience for serious study and full appreciation of the Holy Land's special attractions," said Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of foreign study programs. 
According to Charles, the low number of applications this year indicated the level of con­cern for the safety of American students in Jerusalem. The minimum requirement has always stood at 10 students, but this year only five applications were received. "Five is not a sufficient number of students to make a viable program," said Charles, "but that is not to say that we would have offered the program even if 10 had applied." 
The advantages for a foreign study program is the freedom of being independent and meeting the people, but if students were to go to Jerusalem they would feel constrained with all of the regulations that would have to be maintained, added Charles. 
Notre Dame's undergraduate program in Jerusalem has been in operation since 1985 and 
The last days of fall are swiftly approaching, yet some Notre Dame students will be missing out on the beautiful scenery see STUDY I page 3 this weekend when they travel to Tennessee to support the Fighting Irish. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

. 
.. A thoughtful essay on the merits of beer 
Such a nice word, "beer." 
Say it to yourself two or three times. Such a nice word to represent such a wonderful thing. 
I like everything about beer. I like to drink it. I like to smell John Fischer it. I like to look at it. I 


like to smear it all Accent Copy Editor 
over my body. 
Germans make the best beer. They call it "Bier," though, which is inadequate. "Bier" is too light a word. When you say "Bier," because of the "ie," you feel like you have to use a lame, French-style "r." And lord knows, the silly French don't know beer. 
Maybe you could call Miller Lite a cute "Bier," but you sure couldn't say that of Old Milwaukee. Old Mil is a good, loud, "American" B-E-E-R. 
The American name is much better. The double "e" gets you right down in the gut (not unlike Old Mil). And the "r" at the end of b-e-e-r is strong and guttural. One can even make a manly growling sound in the throat when one says it. 
Beer, like German food, is an acquired taste for many. The dining hall does not serve pickled pig's feet. Nor does it serve beer. 
My infinite experience with beer enables me to make one serving suggestion, a dish which just happens to be my favorite snack: try beer with Chips Deluxe cookies. (My friends at Keebler mandate that I use this brand name instead of, say, Chips A_y.) 
Even better than beer is "col'bir." This is the term good ol' boys use to describe my beverage of choice. I used to be a busboy at a country club (and I do mean a "country" club). My only means of communication with the cook and the dishwasher, (who, I believe, ate the food people left on their plates), was the simple phrase, "I need a godd_n col'bir." 
Such a great phrase. Such good people. We called them the Old Man and the Old Bum, respectively. 
The old man and I had a wonderful greeting routine. It went something like this: 
ME: Hey old man, what do you need? 
OLD MAN: I need a godd_n col'bir 
ME: And how do you need it? 
OLD MAN: Cold. 
We used to look forward to Prime Rib 
Nite, because we could tie napkins to our feet and go sliding across the grease-coated and au jus-covered floor. But we looked forward to col'bir more. 
We also used to make up songs about col'bir: 
Oh, I need a col'bir 
In the worst of ways. 
(Sung to the tune of any song on the radio at the time.) Yessir, I sure do like beer, and if anyone tells you different, then they're lying. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff Production News Melissa Cusack Carrie Amann Molly Fleck Christine Walsh Siobhan McCarthy Photography Daivd Short Accent John Clover Shonda Wilson Stephanie Snyder Systems Cristina Ortiz Cesar Capella Amalia Meier Sports Rolando de Aguiar Circulation Rich Kurz Bill O'Rourke 
Viewpoint . Matt Novak 
Denisse Marion-LandaJs 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990 
WEATHER 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
lcthus will sponsor a lecture and discussion with Steve Newton today at 6:30 p.m., Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
German Club is showing the film Die Verlorene Ehre der Katerina Blum today in Basement Rm. 9 of the CCE starting at 7:30p.m. 
Off-campus mass will be celebrated this week at Castle Point Apartments, on Sunday, Nov. 11, at 11 a.m., at 3016 The Royal Huntsman Court. All are welcome. For further information, call 239-6510. 
Special dedication ceremony for sister Thea Bowman on Sunday, Nov. 11, at 10 p.m. in Knott Hall's 24-hour study lounge. 
The Spanish Club will be showing a film "Hombre Mirando el Sureste" ("Man Facing Southwest") on the 2nd floor of PW, Sunday, 7 p.m. The film is in Spanish with English subtitles. 

WoRLD 
Eleven British women arrived in Jordan Thursday en route to Baghdad to seek the release of their husbands and relatives held hostage after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. They were expected to leave Friday for Iraq.Iraq offered to allow relatives of foreigners banned from leaving to spend Christmas with loved ones. The British and U.S. governments discouraged relatives from accepting the invitation. Iraqi authorities granted them one-month visas, and promised to assist them. In Warsaw, Poland, 241 Poles returned from Iraq on Thursday and one told Polish TV at th~ airport that abo?-t 40 Americans being held at a chemical plant were m "tragic" condition. 

Students for Environmental Action will meet at 7 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 11, at the CSC to organize the Pre-cy­cling Campaign and Earth Jam II. All members and any interested students may attend. 
Auditions for Lab Scene Directing Class Finals four one-act plays. Monday, Nov. 12 from 4:30-6:30 p.m. Lab Theatre upstairs in Washington Hall. No prepara­tions necessary. 
Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles will be closed Saturday, Sunday and Monday, November 10, 11, 12 in order to allow all the branch personnel to enjoy a three­day holiday weekend. Customers should consult their lo­cal license branch for the schedule of hours they will be open to serve the public. 
A low-cost drug Kenya trumpeted as a breakthrough AIDS treatment has become mired in licensing squabbles and corruption charges, delaying its availability and casting doubt on promising initial findings. Patients and doctors who have used the drug, known as Kemron, say it does seem to alleviate symptoms. And people are coming from Europe, the United States and elsewhere to try it. The optimistic reports await confirmation in clinical tri­als under way in several countries. There also are accusa­tions that one Kenyan doctor has sold test samples of Kemron, including worthless placebos, for exorbitant prices. 
NATIONAL 
With the cold-and-flu season fast approaching, shot that typically costs $10 to $15 in a doctor's office. 
doctors are bracing for whatever it may bring. Flu kills Flu, or influenza, is spread by virus-infected droplets about 20,000 Americans a year -in some years twice coughed or sneezed into the air. Victims develop fever, that amount or more, he said. A vaccine is currently headache, muscle ache and fatigue. The vaccine is 70 per­available which takes approximately two to three weeks cent to 90 percent effective in people younger than 65. 
to produce immunity. The vaccine comes in the form of a 
INDIANA 
A Ball State University natural resources professor is supervising laboratory tests to determine if fuel pellets, a product of recycling, can be used as an altern~tive to co~l. _ The pellets are the size of half of a cigar. and will likely be produced by a new machine at ~uncie Paper Process. The pellets a~e an attractive al­ternative source of fuel for bmlers and other sys­tems fueled by coal. Johnson said best estimates are that MPP's machine could produce 50-60 tons of fuel pellets per day. He estimated the pel.lets could sell for $20 per ton, whereas coal pnces are up over $30 per ton. 

MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 
168.14 0 0.67 
S&P Composite 
307.61 0 1.60 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,443.81 0 2.97 
Precious Metals 
Gold {f$0.76 to $387.30/oz. 
Silver {7 0.9¢ to $4.277/oz. 
ALMANAC 

On November 9: 
e In 1872: Fire destroyed 
nearly a thousand buildings in Boston. e In 1938: Bands of Nazis be­gan roaming the streets of Germany and Austria, looting and burning synagogues as well as Jewish-owned stores and houses. The pogrom became known as "Kristallnacht" be­cause of the broken glass that littered the streets. • 
e In 1963: Twin disasters struck Japan as some 450 miners were killed in a coal dust explosion and 160 ~jjOple died in a train crash. 
e In 1976: The U.N. General Assembly approved ten resolutions condemning apartheid in South Africa, including one characterizing the white­ruled government as "illegitimate." 

Friday, November9, 1990 The Observer page 3 

Parks continues the fight for civil rights 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 
Hosa Parks said that her re­fusal to give up her seat on a Montgomery city bus had noth­ing to do with the fact that her feet were hurting. "At that time I wasn't even having any foot trouble,"she said at a press conference Thursday. 
On December I, 1955, Parks refused to give up her seat on a eity bus in Montgomery, Ala. ller refusal to stand led to protests throughout the United Statns and Parks has since be­come known as the "Mother of tlw Civil Hights Movement." 
Parks did not, however, think lwr refusal would l1~ad to a ma­jor civil rights movement. 
'I would like to be remembered as one who was concerned with freedom and equality and justice for all people ...' 
"At the time I was arrested, I was not aware of what the eornmunity would say or how they would rnact." What Parks did know was that she would not he put into the position of having to give up her seat on a bus again. "I certainly felt we had taken this type of treatment far too long... I was glad to know that this onn incident sprnad to other activities," she said. 
Parks said that although mi­norities havn madn gains in their fight for civil rights, there are still too many negative atti­tudes. Slw cited President Bush's veto of the recent civil rights hill as an example of 
Eighty South Bend area high school students have been in­vited to spend I ligh School Art Day with Notre Dame studio art faculty. 
Art teachers from South Bend High School, Marian, and St. Joseph High School were asked to select ten of their best stu­dents for today's event. The students will have the opportu­nity to participate in two work­shops of the 13 offered by the
I 
ROFFLE"
II• SORBIE 


~~ PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 

ROCCO'~ ~TYlf gHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS : PERMANENTS -COLOR 


Our 201h Anniversary Sale November 7-11 
~2~¢~ 
Copies 
99¢ Oversize Copies 99¢ Color Copies 
kinko•s· 
the copy center 

The Observer/Dave Short Rosa Parks, "Mother of the Civil Rights Movement," spoke at Notre Dame Thursday at the Center for Continuing Education. Parks' lecture urged young people to remove racism from college campuses. 
fied and feel that all has been 

High school students delve into art
won and there is nothing more 
to do but to enjoy (the rights we 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
have gained)," said Parks. 
News Writer 

retired from his office. In 1987, she started the Hosa and Hay­mond Parks Institute for Self Development in an effort to help "the average youth" gain the motivation needed to reach their full potential. 
"We have to encourage young people to look forward to the future that is before us," she said. Young people need to 
department. 
Workshops will include pho­tography, figure drawing, figure sculpture, graphic design, metal sculpture, fibers, wood seulpture, painting, printmak­ing, ceramics, watercolor, and basic drawing. 
"This is the third year that we have hosted High School Art Day ... all the faculty seem very enthusiastic for the event," said Father James Flanigan, chair of the Friends' Education Committee. 
"High School Art Day affords 
PHONE (219) 233-4957 
study and learn about their his­tory and they need to take care of their health and spiritual awareness, according to Parks. 
Parks said that the fight to end racism must start in the home. When asked whether she was surprised that racism still exists on college campuses she replied: ''I'm not really sur­prised, however, I feel that it is too late to try to eradicate racism in the mind of a person when they reach college age. It begins as soon as we're born and within the horne of the par­ents." 
"I wish it (racism) would end today," she added. 
Parks is also concerned with the underprivileged. "We have to be aware and concerned about the mfiny people who are suffering and the many people who are deprived," she said. 
"I would like to be remem­bered as one who was con­cerned with freedom and equality and justice for all pno­ple ... I would treat other people as I wish to be treated," Parks said. 
In addition to lecturing around the country, Parks is currently writing three autobi­ographies and is working on signing a movie deal. Slw has received ten honorary doctor­ate degrees and numerous plaques, awards and citations, as well as the keys to several ci­ties. 
the best junior and senior high school students in the school system the opportunity to expe­rience studio activity at the eol­lege level and acts as a reward and recognition of other ac­complishments in studio work," said Hanigan. 
Flanigan hopes that High School Art Day will make m·ea art students aware of what the Notre Dame art department has to offer. Among the partic­ipating faculty in the activity are Hichard Gray, Ann Mont­gomery, Miklos Simon, Angela Michielutti, Paul Down, Bar­bara Peterson, Kevin Firme, Father Austin Collins, Kirk Gauss, Doug Kinsey, Jean Dib­ble, Laura Vinnedge, and Don­ald Yogi. 
The students' day will start with breakfast and an introduc­tion at the Snite Museum of Art and conelude with a wrap-up session and refreshments, hosted by Notre Dame art stu­dents. 
The event is sponsored by Friends of the Snite Museum of Art and the South Bend School System. 
Study 
continued from page 1 
was cancnll~d onee before in 1988 due to conflicts in tlw Middle East that threatened tlw safety of Amerieans. Charh~s hopes that a peaceful solution will soon be made so that the program can resume in the spring semester of 1992. 
TI-lE AMERICAN HEART ASS<IIATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM• 
~ 

0American Heart AssoclaHon 
This space prov1ded as a public service. 
these attitudes. 
"There is much to be done and there has been much im­provement over the earlier years before I was arrested. At that time we were very much under the yolk of legally en­forced racial segregation," Parks said. 
"We cannot afford to be complacent about the gains we have made. We can't be satis­
Parks had been an activist for civil rights before she was ar­rested. She was active with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, having served as secretary and as a youth leader for the Montgomery branch. 
In 1965, Michigan Con­gressman John Conyers em­ployed Parks and in 1988 she 

r---~----~ 
page 4 The Observer 
Friday, November 9, 1990 

SMC joint venture to aid scientists 
By CORINNE PAVLIS 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College and the 

Battelle Memorial Institute's 
Pacific Northwest Laboratories 
(PNL) have announced a collab­
orative program designed to 
encourage women and minori­
ties to pursue careers in the 
scientific professions. 
The agreement was signed 
during a ceremony at the Saint 
Mary's Science Hall,Thursday. 
The agreement will provide 

several interactive programs 
between the college and PNL, 
including student summer in­
tern programs. 
The object is to develop pro­grams in order to strengthen the science and engineering curriculum at the pre-college level. Specially targeted will be minority, international and non­traditional students. The appointment of Saint Mary's faculty members as PNL affili­ate staff scientists and the ap­pointment of PNL staff mem­bers as affiliate faculty are also part of the deal. 
Collaborative research pro­jects and a regular program of visits and exchanges between Saint Mary's faculty and PNL staff members are included in the arrangements. Joint use of facilities, equipment, and shar­ing of expertise for cooperative interdisciplinary projects will be encouraged. 
William Wiley, senior vice president of PNL, was present at the signing. In his comments he indicated that Saint Mary's College is the first women's col­lege selected for this program, largely because of its strong reputation in the sciences, the college's state-of-the-art science facilities, and the high quality of its faculty. 
Battelle officials said that their interest in a collaboration with Saint Mary's stemmed from a concern over where to find scientists in the future. Facing a declining pool of tra­ditionally-aged college students nationally, each year the science fields are finding fewer trained professionals from which to choose. 
By focusing on the education of women and minorities in the sciences, Battelle hopes to at­tract students from those groups whose representation in the scientific community has been characteristically small. 
Battelle officials stated that "Saint Mary's tradition of pro­viding educational opportuni­ties for women and its recent commitment to programs aimed at diversifying the cul­tural make-up of the campus community made it an appro­priate choice for the collabora­tive venture." 
Saint Mary's College President William Hickey responded enthusiastically to the collabo­rative effort. "The partnership Saint Mary's has formed with Battelle Memorial Institute and Pacific Northwest Laboratories offers tremendous new oppor­tunities to the students pursu­ing studies here in the science," said Hickey. "We intend to model 'bridge' programs for pre-college girls after success­ful Pacific Northwest Labs' programs," added Hickey, a former chair of the biology de­partment. 
Thomas Fogle, chair of the biology department, stated: "We are very excited about this opportunity primarily because it is an opportunity for our students to intern with one of the leading research institu­tions in the country." 
Two Saint Mary's students will be selected for internships at the PNL's Richland facility this summer. 
Officials from both Battelle and Saint Mary's stated that the access to the sophisticated scientific environment of the PNL will play an essential role in encouraging Saint Mary's best students to continue their careers in science and applied mathematics. 
Both partners stressed the unique nature of the agree­ment, indicating that such partnerships, while common with large research-oriented universities, are rare for liberal arts institutions the size of Saint Mary's, and particularly for women's colleges. 
Informal discussion of the program began last spring after a Battelle official was invited to Saint Mary's to present a program in a series on cultural diversity. 
The Pacific Northwest Labo­ratories are operated by Bat­telle for the U.S. Department of Energy and are located in Rich­land and Sequim, Washington. 


NO receives 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
News Writer 
The Rare Book Room of the Hesburgh Library formally received a facsimile edition of the eighth century Book of Kells yesterday. 
The facsimile, one of 500 copies of the ancient manuscript made by Fine Art Facsimile Publishers of Switzerland, was given to the University by The Wild Geese, an Irish-American cultural organization based in Greenwich, CT. 
In a description of the Book of Kells, Laura Fuderer, a Rare Book Librarian, explained the artistry behind the work: The Book of Kells "constitutes the four Gospels in Latin, written in calligraphic style known as Insular majuscule... and 

• •
.:Amencan Heart 'Association 
~--~========~~~~ 

~UHd 11-2 ~!:CLUB ~ ~ s-9 
Remember...Weekend Specials are Back! 

Book of Kells facsimile 
decorated throughout. 
"The book was written around 800 A.D., presumably by Celtic monastic scribes, but it is uncertain whether they were located in Ireland, Northrumbia, or elsewhere. It was found buried at Kells in 1006 and more than 600 years 
later  was  taken  to  Trinity  
College.  
Originally  bound  in  one  

volume, the book was separated into four parts in 1959. Parts of it are on display in Trinity College Library and pages are turned once a month," said Fuderer. 
A Trinity College Librarian said that the facsimile is scarcely distinguishable from the original. The texture, uneven edges, holes, defects, and repairs of the actual pages have been reproduced and each volume is sewn and bound in medieval style. 
Notre Dame is one of five colleges in the United States to receive a copy of the Book of Kells. "Notre Dame is a university for the nations... the world ... it is partially reflected in our library collection," said Father Malloy at the reception of the book. 
Scholars have long studied the "intricate artwork and mystery of the volume," said Carl Shanahan, a representative of the Wild Geese. "The University will benefit from this extraordinary gift," said Malloy, "and its accessibility ... " 
Students and faculty are welcome to come view the Book of Kells. It will remain on display in the Rare Book Room at the Hesburgh Library. 


>>> IL © ~ 'iF <<< 
Bracelet made of gold letters which spell 
LOVE YOU 
Also engraved with name & date Obvious sentimental value 
REWARD 
288-7976 
God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminarv at the University of Notre Dame for college gr~duates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 



Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer page 5 
-~._.,..,_,:.:~~~!C'~:::41J!~.:~._.,:·:,x;t:~·:ll'>:: ·:·»"..< :~aJ>:"X41X~2eO:::~::.L~~~~, 
The Wall: A Year After the Fall 
1~1•\TW The Berlin Wall opens 
Following mass emigrations and demonstrations. the East 
German government suddenly opens its borders. including the 
Berlin Wall. allowing citizens to travel and emigrate freely. 
IU•l'Jifil Reformists installed 
Hans Modrow forms new reformist Communist cabinet. 
I•IMWM Power monopoly ends 
Parliament deletes the Communist Party's 
guaranteed leading role from the constitution. 
••m•• Party hard-liners replaced 
Entire Politburo and party Central Committee resign and are replaced by reformers. Egan Krenz, who had replaced long-time party leader Erich Honecker, resigns as head of state three days later. 
ltJO;II:I First free elections 
Christian Democrats defeat the Communists. Lothar de Maiziere becomes Prime Minister; his party's platform calls for rapid reunification using Article 23 of the West German constitution. 
•o=•• Reunification talks 
Modrow calls for reunification talks with West Germany, two days after the party voted to endorse eventual reunification. 
1·11[1'1'1 Unification date approved 
East German parliament votes to join with West on 
Oct. 3. with local elections to be held in the East 
Oct. 14 and all-German parliamentary voting Dec. 2. 
P"'f'' Economies merged 
Treaty of May 18 merging economies and currencies takes effect. The Ostmark disappears. 
'Miil'fl War powers approve unification 
Britain, France, U.S. and Soviet Union agree to end their occupying-power rights in Germany. Limits are set on NATO and German forces in East; Soviet pullout scheduled. 
l•!jMM Germany reunited 
The former East German territory is admitted to the Federal Republic of Germany. East and West Berlin reunite to form one capital city for Germany. 
AP!T. Dean Caple 

~:.~: ,_., ,•XO:: ::«! :•311>:: ;«o;l::•ati:' •:C?1:.;:; ~~· 
HAMMES 

~ NDmEMM£ 
~ ~ 
-
~ 
f'l 
~ 
~
I ~ :[[ IJ 
~
I 
Scotch TM 

Q Hook & Loop ~ Tape
!
; 
: $ 1.29 
~.• 
· 
~ 
~ 
j 

Post-it 
TM 
File Folders Labels 
$ 1.29 

German-Polish border set 
FRANKFURT AN DER ODER, Germany (AP) -Chancellor Helmut Kohl announced Thurs­day that Poland and the newly united Germany will sign a his­toric border treaty this month, ending decades of concern over the common frontier. 
Kohl also said he wanted a wide-ranging friendship and cooperation treaty to be sub­mitted to the German and Pol­ish legislatures for ratification by the end of February. 
"We are deeply convinced that real peace will be possible only if Germans and Poles march together along this road into a peaceful future," Kohl said of the treaties. 
He made the comments fol­lowing a day of talks with Pol­ish Prime Minister Tadeusz Ma­zowiecki, the first foreign 
Union 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame professors coming 
over to Saint Mary's to 
participate in such activities, he 
said. Ladreeh hopes that such 
a panel will help encourage 
more academic interaction 
between the two schools. 
"People on both campuses who specialize in German af­fairs are coming together to hopefully lay a foundation for more inter-disciplinary intellec­tual endeavors of a collabora­tive nature," said Ladrech. 
Brauer, a native Berliner, will address the domestic economic implications of the union. He will cover issues such as the costs to West Germany as a result of East German inclusion, unemployment in East Germany, and the difficulties East Germans will encounter in the transition to a new econ­omy. 

leader to visit united Germany. 
Mazowiecki said he was sat­isfied with the "important re­sults" of the talks in this Ger­man border town on the Oder River across from Poland. Mazowiecki also said the German-Polish border must not be a divider between East and West. "We want this border to bring us closer and not to di­vide Europe between the devel­oped rich and the poor," he said. 
The meeting came exactly one year after Kohl became the first Western leader to visit newly democratic Poland, a trip interrupted when the dramatic news reached Warsaw that the Berlin Wall had fallen. 
Kohl pleased his Polish guests on Thursday by saying he hoped visa requirements for 
Kommers, one of the nation's leading experts on German constitutional and judicial is­sues, will focus on the transi­tional effects of unification on the West German Judicial sys-tern as it absorbs East German judicial culture. 
Kommers is currently serving as editor for the Heview of Politics Journal. He also teaches both Notre Dame un­dergraduates and Law School students. 
Kommers has conducted and published substantial research regarding abortion and the right to privacy. The abortion issue has played a controversial role in German unification, as the two countries attempt to adopt a common guide for making decisions on the issue. 
Wegs, an expert on Austrian History, will discuss political socialization efforts in uniting the the two cultures. Wegs is the current chair of the Com~ mittee for European Studies of 
SALE ~~ 
• 
-
~ I 
I 
I • ~ 
..·~ 
~ 

Post-it I w 
TM 

Fax pads H 
i ~ 

$ 1.99 ~ ~ 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ 

Poles to visit Germany would be lifted by Christmas. 
"I think we made great progress for the futum," Polish government spokeswoman Malgorzata Niezabitowska told reporters, adding the visit was "a big success." 
People from former East Germany do not rHwd visas to visit Poland, and many travel there to shop in the flourishing, innxpensive Polish markets. 
While Polish traders weleorno the business, other Poles have expressed resentment over tlwir need for visas. 
Arter their talks, Kohl and Mazowiecki crossed the wide bridge over the Oder into thll Polish town of Slubice, where thny wen~ greeted by about 1,000 cheering residents. 
the Kellogg Institutes for In­ternational Studies and the De­partment of History, Sociology, Government, and International Studies. 
After the four panelists con-elude their individual prcsenta­tions, there will be a period for questions from the audience. Ladrech sites student interac­tion with faculty as a main goal of the panni and hopes for a good turn out as well as signif­ieant student participation. 
Ladrech also notns the !'Vent will receive media covPrage since "first anniversaries are very attractive to the media." Channel 16 news will be cover­ing the discussion and will be intnrviewing Ladrnch after­wards. 
The panni presentation will run from 3::W-5 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. Admission is frnn and refresh­ments will bn provided. The event is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Political Science Club. 
a~::~~-,.;:~)M(~>.a::r~:::41J!<::::,:.;::::::ox.:::•»::l'•:::::oxo~:xc~-:-li20::::~:.x~::'>Xs:z:::oxo::::,_,,:~)MK:~~:...::::::-..: ::--=:::~:::•»:.::c.::;...-:::::·:c•:.~: )OM(~--~ 

Houston 8-0 Texas 
Washington 
Colorado 
Iowa 
Miami 
Georgia Tech 
Virginia 
Nebraska 
'. Florida 
8-1 8-1-1 7-1 
6-2 
7=0-1 7-1 8-1 7-1 

UCLA Oklahoma State Ohio State Boston College (11-17) Virginia Tech North Carolina Kansas Georgia 
,, 
,. 
., 
..... 

NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------,
SUNDAY EARLY 

2 Large Pizzas
DOUBLE FEATURE WEEK SPECIAL 

1Topping 
$5.99 $4.99 $10.95 
Get 2 Large Original Pizzas
c;ct 2small Original pi::as 11 ilh the topping of 1·our 
Get llarge Original pizza with your favorite 

with the topping of your choice.
chuirc [,".,,nil-sl::i,9lJI..:\. ·alid Sundars on h. 
topping for only $4.99a~~:.ondays & Tuesdays only. 

m E.xpircs 12/31/90Expirrs 12/31/Qll Expires 12/31190
1 II
® -® 
® 
V·~:~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~p~~g~~fe on~~~~v~~. ~~~~s1 ·~:~~~"J ~~~~~~~r~e~~fe ~;,~~~gm 36u~a;x,v~~s~~~~:S~Y 5 Va~~~e~t fa~~-~~~~~~~~p~~g;~fe 0 ~~!iv~~ ~~~~sv1:~,:er:f ~~~~~~~~e~~fe ~;~~~: 36u~3;xiv;r~ 5~~~~e~~ys

than 520 00 Our dr1v~rs are not penalized lor late deltvenes Va~~~e~1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~g~~~e 0 ~~hv~~ ~~~~s~:~tlae~ ~~~~~~~~e~!le PJ;~~~gmadu~a~tv;,~s~~~\fs~ys
than $20 00 Our dr1vers are not penalized for late dehvenes 

than $20 00 Our drtvers are not penalized lor late dehvenes 
L--------------------------------------~ L--------------------------------------L-------------------------------------­
Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 l835SouthBendAI'e. 289-0033 816 Ave. 

-

..-~~~--------­
Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer 
Ireland likely to elect first female president 
DUBLIN, Ireland (API-A when a government has lost 
lawyer who favors liberalizing support, and to refer legislation 
strict laws on birth control and to the Supreme Court. 
abortion appeared in a strong On Thursday night, unofficial 
position Thursday to become returns showed Lenihan with 
Ireland's first woman president, 44.1 percent of the vote, Mrs. 
according to partial and Robinson with 38.9 percent and 
unoffieial returns. Austin Currie of Fine Gael with 
17 percent, according to Press 

Mary Hobinson trailed former Association, the British news 
deputy prime minister Brian agency. 
Lenihan in the preliminary Turnout was estimated at 63 
count. but pre-election polls percent of the 2.47 million eli­
indkated the second round on gible voters, compared with 68 
Friday would put her over the percent in parliamentary elec­
top. tions last year. 
"It looks like President 
Hobinson now," said Justice Under the Irish system, voters 
Minister Hay Burke, who had mark a second preference on 
supported Lenihan. a member their ballots. In the second 
of the dominant Fianna Fail round. Currie stands to be 
party. eliminated and his votes dis­
"It's looking good, btit it's not tributed among the two top fin­
by any manner or means ishers. 
dedded yet," said Mrs. Hobin­A poll published Tuesday in 
-

son. whose supporters staged The Irish Times indicated Cur­
early celebrations. She was rie's supporters preferred Mrs. 
nominated by the Labor and Hobinson by 3-to-1 over Leni­
Worknrs party, although she han. Currie had urged his sup­
has no party affiliation. porters to make her their sec­
ond choice. 
AP Photo

As president, she would be Former Prime Minister Garret All that's left expected to refrain from any FitzGerald of Fine Gael said on A security guard was arrested for allegedly torching the historic political controversies. The Irish Hadio that he expected back lot of the Universal Studios Tuesday night. Wind-fanned president's main powers are the Mrs. Hobinson to finish with 52 flames turned 20 percent of the property into rubble by right to dissolve Parliament percent of the vote. Wednesday mornin . 
SAVE MONEY ON YOUR NEXT COMPUTER WHEN YOU BUY THIS ONE, THE ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS Z-286 LP+. 

The Zenith Data Systems Z-286 LP Plus 
~~~--~~' 
~~~~£­

HOW? Simple. Only the Z-286 LP+ is upgradable from an 80286 to an 80386 SX processor. In English, this means you get a computer today that meets your needs and a computer that can be upgraded to a more powerful one in the future. when YOU need it (and have the money). Irs an affordable way to to protect your computing investment. 
SPECIFICATIONS PRICING 
Processor: 80286. upgradable to 80386 SX 
ZMF-286-X2 286 LP+. Model 20. with 20 MB 
Hard Disk: 20 or 40 MB hard disk.. FTM color monitor. 
Memory: 1 MB RAM. expandable to 8 MB 
ONLY: $1777.00 
Ports: 2 seriaL 1 parallel (printer) 0ncludes WORDPERF!:CT 5.1)
Mouse: Microsoft Mouse 
MF-286-X4 286 LP+. Model 40. with 40 MB
Video: VGA hard disk.. FTM color monitor.
Software: MS-DOS. Windows 3.0 
ONLY: $1984.00
Monitor: FTM 14" YGA Color 
(includes WORDPERFECT 5.1) Contact: 
ZENITH 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
data systems Math/Computer Bldg. 
239-7477 
Groupe Bull 
page 7 

Computer whiz teens snagged 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Two youthful computer whizzes are accused of tapping into a com­pany's telephone system to make harassing ealls and bomb threats, causing $2.4 million in damages and lost business, au­thorities said. 
John Keary, a New York State Police investigator, said the two teen-agers experimented with International Data Group's toll­free number and gained access to the Framingham, Mass., firm's computerized voice mailbox system. 
The company produces spe­cialty, high-tech magazines like Computer World. 
Keary said the youths made harassing calls for five months and replaced business calls and advertising orders left on the mailbox system with their own fake -and sometimes lewd ­messages. 
Daniel Hosenbaum, 17, and a 14-year-old friend. both of Now York City, were charged Mon­day with computer tampering, unauthorized use of a computer and aggravated harassment. 
Keary said the two told police they were annoyed at not re­ceiving a free poster with their subscription to an IDG magazine. 
Olga Greenwood, telecommu­nications analyst and voice mail administrator for International Data, said harassing calls also were made to the firm's Peter­borough, N.H., office. 
"For five months, we've been living a nightmare," she said. 
Keary said the pair placed about 700 calls, mostly after working hours, and changed greetings left on computerized employee answering machines. 
Greenwood said the name on her message was changed to Marge Simpson, the mother of the television cartoon family, and her greeting was changed to a lewd remark. 
Keary said Hosenbaum faced a year in jail if convicted on the misdemeanor charges. The 14­year-old was charged as a juve­nile. 
''0'.' ,,, 
Give to '""'"'~the United Way. 
~ 


INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE RO.• MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Dally9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11· 


Friday, November 9, 1990

page 8 The Observer 

most of its troop supply. Today, State of National Defense hand, are not." the Pentagon has five levels of reserves on call. At present, we 
God blvss you are only on the first level, 
Chinese-American

which consists mostly of health 
Restaurant & care specialists. Cocktail Lounge 
Happy
If the call of reserves ever Authentic Szechuan, Mandartn & Hunan Cuisine

reached 500,000, the next step 
would be a draft. However, it 
Lunches starting at----$3.95 

Birthday
would be conceived of as an Banquet room~ 
Dinners starting at----$5.45 

emergency draft solely to get fiva iIable for u~ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days
to 200

combat replacements for those 
~~~~......I Mon.·Thurs. 11:30Lm.to10p.m.Fri.·Sat. 11::!0Lm.to11 p.m.

who are casualties. 272-7378 Sun. & Holidayo 11:30 Lm. to 10 p.m. Lovv filways. ~ 
As in the past, specifically in 130 Dixie W•y S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) World War II, the draft wouldn't Mom and Dad follow from a military need for 
~NI!X~~-~~-:~f.:~::>11K~~:-~:)Q&::~~Y•f.~.:>.»:~~~~~:,.·.-.:··=-·:::::>.-:>.x~~-.:: :«-.. ~::.·::.3r~~·•::.::!:~J>::.::.-.~:·:!::~.:_, 
I DART COURSE CHANGES ~ 
NEW DART FEATURE ANTH 388 01 2553 delete cross-listing with Engl 415 .•~:,•.:.:. 
I,, ARHI 464 01 2317 T H 09:30-10:45 time chg .. ARHI 564 01 2318 T H 09:30-10:45 time chg ; BIOS 102A 01 0296 Freshman Only .,,,. 
DART will now distinguish between course prerequisites and Bios 102B 01 0297 Freshman only
BLST 419A 01 2776 Cancelled •• restrictions based on college, major, or level. cE 465 010436 T H02:45-04:00 time chg 
1.. 

CHEG 538 01 3052 T H 11:00-12:15 time chg ..·., CHEM 196 01 2348 Math 126 is NOT a Co-Req.
If you do not meet a course prerequisite, DART will say: cHEM 202 010493 Permission Required IISorry <COUrSe name> requireS a prerequisite.n CHEM202 020494PermissionRequired a CHEM 224L 06 0497 delete cross-listing •.•
i.-:

I CHEM 243 01 0500 Chern 223 or Chern 235 is the Pre-Req. ~ If you do not meet a college, major, or level restriction, COTH 369 01 3254 Coth &Arnst Majors Only ~ COTH 493B 01 0558 Coth 492 is NOT a Pre-Req. ~
I 
DART will say: 11Sorry, you do not meet student restrictions. 
EASC 102 all Sec Freshman Only i1;fPlease refer to the conments coll.Jtn in the DART book. 11 
EASC 114 all Sec Freshman Only •'··
ECON 123 all Sec Freshman Only ECON 340 01 2365 Permission Required
You should also refer to course changes that are published EE 498A 01 2 credit hours ~. EE 598K 01 3265 T H 09:30-10:45 time/day chg I
in the Observer.

I I FS 180 all Sec Freshman Only i GE 106 02 0817 MWF 10:10-11:00 time chg ~ GOVT 141 01 1029 Freshman Only ,. HIST 377 01 3184 raise maximum to 75 HPS 680 01 2773 W02:45-05:15 time chg ;; liPS 671 01 3232 cross-listed Law 671 & reduce max to 5 ~..:
I I LAW 671 01 2972 cross-listed liPS 671 &reduce max to 25 ~~ LAW 688 01 3291 Permission Required 
II MARK 374 01 2405 Mark 350 or Mark 370 is the Pre-Req. MARK 374 02 2273 Mark 350 or Mark 370 is the Pre-Req. BDART COURSES ADDED 
MATH 662 01 2960 M\IF 10:10-11:00 time chg J!. CE 498 03 3297 Advanced Oxidation Processes var. cr. hrs. MBA 563 01 1249 MW01:15-02:30 time chg i1:f 
EE 599R 20 3298 Thesis Direction var. cr. hrs. MBA 627 01 1261 MBA 622 is the Pre-Req. I 
MBA 629 01 1263 MBA 622 is the Pre-Req. ~~
ENGL 109 40 3300 Comp. &Lit. 3.0 cr. hrs., MWF 09:05-09:55 

MBA 629 02 1264 MBA 622 is the Pre-Req. ~ 
ENGL 109 41 3301 Comp. &Lit. 3.0 cr. hrs., MWF 01:15-02:05 MGT 231 01 1332 T H 09:30-10:45 time chgENGL 301 01 3299 Fiction ~riting var. cr. hrs., T H01:15-02:30; MGT 475 01 1350 T H 11:00-12:15 time chg · · MSCI 112 05 1456 W02:20-03:10 time chg 1''.~
Permission Required 

PHYS 110 01 1665 Cancelled
GSC 227 01 3166 Women in Music 3 cr. hrs., T H09:30-10:45 PHYS 116 01 2918 MWF 1010-11:00 time chgMBA 614 01 3303 Financial Statements 3 cr. hrs., M~ 01:15-02:30 PSY 341T 01 2872 Psy 341 is a Co-Req. PSY 341T 02 2873 Psy 341 is a Co-Req. ;·.,.
MBA 691 01 3302 Real Estate Finance 3 cr. hrs., M~F 12:15-01:05 

PSY 342 01 1820 Psy 342T is a Co-Req.
cross-listed with FIN 371 

PSY 342 02 2874 Psy 342T is a Co-Req. ' 
MUS 227 01 2761 Women in Music 3 cr. hrs., T H09:30-10;45 

PSY 342T 01 2876 Psy 342 is a Co-Req. ~.·.''.·_
PHIL 203A 01 3296 Informal Logic 3 cr. hrs., T H04:15-05:30 PSY 342T 02 2877 Psy 342 is a Co-Req. ~ 
PSY 342T 03 2878 Psy 342 is a Co-Req.
No Business Students until 11/30 

PSY 396A 01 2882 3 credit hours I
PSY 388 01 1832 Comput in Psych Rsrch Eductn 3 cr. hrs. ROSP 212 01 0855 Permission Required ~.'''~.· SOC 102 01 2066 Soc 102T is a Co-Req. ~ soc 279 01 3034 Permission Required 
il;f··.·. 

THEO 100 05 2128 MWF 11:15-12:05 time chg R 
I 
~" 

~-:?'!& iB"KC.QPK)M.C,_,,.:C("~ 
Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer page 9 
Top Ten World Airports 
For calendar year 1989, ranked both by millions of passengers, and by millions of metric tons of cargo (including freight and mail). 

• metric tons 
UIJ h H k Source: Airporl Operalors Council lnlernalional .-onancoc
A 

Officers gyrate for S.C. jury 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -With pulsating pelvises, two male police officers wrapped their legs around a microphone stand and got down on all fours· and shook their posteriors at a jury. , 
The performance Wednesday was intended to mimic the dancing of nude women in the ChippenDolls nightclub. The officers hoped to offend the jurors and convince them that the dancing was obscene. In­stead, they made the jurors smile and drew laughter from courtroom spectators. 
The jury began deliberations Thursday. 
The trial of Jennie Davis, 24, was expected to help establish the Richland County's standards of obscenity. Three other dancers are to go on trial at a later date. 

Solicitor Jim Morton pleaded with jurors to ignore the hu­morous aspects of the case. 
"The officers aren't too excited about getting out here and dancing a little," Morton said. "But you are being asked today to determine what the community of Richland County will allow or not allow." 
But jurors and spectators laughed when Ms. Davis' attor­ney, Brian Dumas, submitted copies of Playboy magazine to show that ·county residents can obtain material that is just as sexually suggestive as nude dancing. 
The officers, Jim Potash and Scott Desrochers, admitted during cross-examination they had purchased Playboy for themselves or viewed X-rated movies at home. 
The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that nude dancing that is not obscene is protected under the Constitution. Communities must define their own obscenity standard based on what forms of expression are so offensive that the average citizen would lind them obscene. 
Ms. Davis is charged with ex­posing her body in an obscene manner, a misdemeanor that carries a maximum punishment of six months in jail or a $500 line. 
Bible calls for challenging the Word 
By DUSTIN KLINGER 
News Writer 
Alicia Ostriker, poet, critic and professor at Rutgers University, shared her ideas and work on woman poets and their role in reinterpreting the Bible in a lecture titled, "A Word Made Flesh: The Bible and Revisionist Women's Poetry," Thursday. 
Ostriker traced the role of prominent female poets in rein­terpreting the Bible, from Emily Dickenson to Lucille Clifton, a black woman poet that Ostriker noted as one of her personal favorites. The title of the lec­ture was adapted from Dickenson's poem 1651. · 
W t h l ..
oman poe s ave a egiti­mate right to reinterpret the Bible, said Ostriker. This is proven by the Biblical prece­dents in which God and the word are challenged. For ex­ample, Abraham's bargaining with God for the lives of the few among the wicked was cited as primary evidence for arguing with the word of God. 

In the New Testament, Christ's entire mission was con­trary to that of the theological establishment of the day, said Ostriker. "The letter (of the word) kills, while the spirit gives life." 
Ostriker proposed that women poets not only have a right, but a duty to "deal with dominate culture texts." Women have and continue to be challenged by the strictly mas­culine language and paternal image in the Bible, she said. 
Women poets are "angry at patriarchy and God the father himself identifying with law rule oppression, power and death as well as ordinary misogyny." 
Emily Dickenson, Kristine Rose, H.D., and Lucille Clifton are several examples of women who broke new ground in bibli­cal commentary, Ostriker added. 
Ostriker's paper will appear in Religion and Literature asone of a group of essays on the subject of "Spirituality in Women's Literature" in January 1992 as part of Nore Dame's Sesquicentennial celebration. It will be edited by Marie Mullins, a doctoral candidate in the English Department. 

Ostrikers, considered a pi­oneer in the area of visionary poetics, has published over 10 books, including her own po­ems, various critiques and edited works. She is an author­ity on the works of William Blake. 
Mrs. Ostriker was born in New York City and graduated from Brandeis University in 1959 and later received her Masters and PhD. from the University of Wisconsin. She teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University in Brunswick, N.J.. 
The lecture was part of the Year of the Woman in conjunc­tion with the Department of English and the Religion and Literature.journal. 
'Cheers' hits 200th episode 
BOSTON (AP) -The cast of 
the television show "Cheers" 
celebrated the show's 200th 
episode Thursday, thanking 
Bostonians for the good humor 
that made the series famous. 
The program was broadcast 
in its usual NBC time slot but 
ran for an hour rather than a 
half-hour. 
"This is overwhelming," said 
George Wendt, who plays Norm 
Peterson, the roly-poly beer­
swigging barfly on the show. 
Wendt received a roar from 
the crowd and chants of "Norm, 
Norm" at his introduction at a 
City Hall celebration earlier in 
the day. The cast traveled 
downtown in a motorcade. 
"Sorry we screwed up your 
lunch hour," Wendt told several 
thousand people who stood in 
45 degree temperatures. 
Mayor Haymond Flynn, who 
was out of town on vacation, 
officially named Thursday 
"Cheers Appreciation Day." 
The entire staff turned out for 
the celebration, except for 
Woody Harrelson, who portrays 
the slow-witted bartender of 
the same name. 
"Cheers," a sitcom about regular patrons at a bar of the same name, is based on Bull & Finch, a Boston basement-level bar. The show is in its 9th sea­son and has included cameo appearances by Flynn and Gov. Michael Dukakis. 
M-Th 8-7:30 Fri 8-6 Sat 8-5 

RECEIVE 10°/o OFF FooD EVERYDAY!! "\. With Student ID at 
SNEAKERS 

Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Come Watch the Irish on one of 5 T.V.s 

* 
Shoot hoops or play darts on one of 3 dartboards 

* 
Enjoy nightly specials with pizzas, sandwiches, & appetizers 


ND 

* Dance while a DJ plays every Friday & Saturday Night 
Located in University Lanes-.1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 

page 10 
Troops 
continued from page 1 
produce results." 
A House Armed Services Committee member, Rep. Ike Skelton, D-Mo., said Bush's use of the word "offensive" was ominous. "The whole attitude seems to be changing from de­fense to offense," he said. "This is anew chapter." 
Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., chairman of the Middle East subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said he believed "the president has been concerned that the focus has been drifting away from the military option" with European political figures visiting Iraq to negotiate for the release of their citizens held hostage. 
The president, said Hamilton, "wants to ... let the Iraqis know that we're deadly serious about this." 
Bush spoke as Secretary of State James Baker III was in Moscow consulting senior So­viet officials over Persian Gulf strategy. 
Soviet officials said they could not rule out the use of force. Bush called this statement "very helpful," and said, "We're on the same wavelength" with President Mikhail Gorbachev on goals in the Middle East. 
Bush said he hopes interna­tional economic sanctions force Saddam to withdraw, but his declaration concerning offen­sive forces dramatically altered his three-month policy in the Persian Gulf, which has been to be able to withstand further aggression by Iraq. 
It was Bush's second news conference of the day. Earlier, he discussed political and eco­nomic matters, but brushed off questions about the gulf. It was possible that this gave Baker time for fresh meetings in Moscow. 
The president said he also had consulted with Saudi King Fahd, whose nation has pro­vided the main staging area for the U.S. and multinational de­ployment that included more than 300,000 troops before Thursday's announcements. 
Bush said current forces were adequate a:s a defense against "any further provocation" by Iraq. 
To the troops half a world away, he pledged: "We won't leave you there any longer than necessary." 
Cheney stood by the presi­dent's side as he announced: 
"I have directed (him) to in­crease the size of U.S. forces committed to Desert Shield to ensure that the coalition has adequate offensive military op­tion should that be necessary." 
Bush committed American troops three months ago, starting with 10,000 troops 

The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990 
The Observer/Dave Short 

Senior Sara Liebscher stood her ground as she received the new flu vaccination shot today at the Hesburgh 

IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -A philosopher proposes applying the same legal standard to abortions as is widely used in determining if a person is dead -is the subject's brain active? 
A model law proposed at an international conference in Iowa City, called the Uniform Determination of Life Protection Act, would permit abortion of a fetus until the 70th day, or 1Oth week, after conception. 
Hans-Martin Sass of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics said that after the 70th day the fetus should be a protected human life because it then begins de­veloping a brain capable of de­termining individual character­istics and thought processes. 
"The absence of brain-specific cells in .early embryonal development could be under­stood as the absence of brain­life," he said. In that case, "abortion of inanimate life must be legally protected." 
Sass, senior research fellow at the Washington, D.C.-based Kennedy Institute and professor of philosophy at Georgetown University proposed the act at a University of Iowa symposium that ended Wednesday. He also is co-director of the Center for Medical Ethics in Bocum, Germany. 
About 60 medical, ethics and legal experts from 15 countries attended the four-day sympo­sium to examine when life actu­ally begins. 
The proposed act essentially describes protected human life as starting when the brain be­gins to function and ending at death, when the person is de­clared brain-dead. That life could be called brain-life, Sass said. 
Advances in technology forced doctors to consider the value of human life when or­gans such as the heart stop functioning, an event that pre­viously would have meant death, Sass said. Because of that, a Uniform Determination of Death Act was created to de­fine when a person is brain­dead; many state statutes are based on that model. 
"In strong contrast to the consensus regarding the end of 
Library. 
shortly after· the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, and since then has spearheaded the de­velopment of an international diplomatic response that has included deployment of massive forces -currently more than 300,000 troops from 27 nations -and several United Nations 

Brain function should guide abortion choice 
life, we do not have a uniform understanding regarding the beginning of human life, which has to be morally recognized and legally protected," Sass told symposium participants. 
Sass said the model act would not force a person opposed to abortion, or contraception, into using either method. People should be free to exercise their own personal philosophical and religious views when dealing 
with themselves, he said. 
I 
He rejected claims that aborting a fetus before its brain develops unfairly destroys that fetus' potential for becoming a specific human being. 
"We violate the potentiality principle all the time," Sass said. "Every lost opportunity for cohabitation violates the principle. So.do all forms of contraception ... chastity of priests and nuns, sexual acts which do not lead to fertiliza­tion." 


• c.IM.t 
PANCAKE HOUSE 

F ~ 
GOllUSH BEAT NAVY 
Oven-baked 4-Egg Omelettes On Sale through November 
OPEN AT6:30AM DAILY Serving ND/SMC Students for 25 years 
rcO'loNW.PANCAKEHOUsE, ·I APPLE PANCAKE I 
I SAVE St.OO I L ~·~·~9~ 2ffJ 
rcoLONIALPANCAKEHOUsE, I ANY CREPES I I SAVE 51.00 I L~~~o_ 2ffJ 
U.l. 311fortb IDRoldand (AcnN l'l'Om The HoUday lliD) 2.1)...7433 

resolutions calling on Iraq to withdraw its troops from Kuwait. 
Asked what had changed that led him to decide to beef up the forces, he replied that it was a "guarantee of the safety of all and I think it sends a very strong signal" to Saddam. 
Said Bush, "Iraq's brutality, aggression and violation of in­ternational law cannot be permitted to succeed." 
"I find it hard to believe that today, Nov. 8, that he does not understand that he's up against a determined, unprecedented alliance," he said. 
I 

t'~ 
Offilll~ 
and putting Spirit back into life 
, 


t h e n e w s e r e s 
Saturday, November 10, 1990 
5:00 p.m. on WAUS 90.7 FM 
8:30 p.m. on WHME Channel 46 

Dr. Dwight K. Nelson 
This Week: "How To Get Lost At Home" 
Friday, November 9, 1990 
AP Photo 

Bring back Stalin 
Two arch-conservative communist supporters raise posters of Stalm and Lemn Wednesday during the parade which marked the 73rd anniversary of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution. 

'Tic/(g,ts avai[a6fe 


-Mz:sic: Cliic 

'rrlii 

' . 
9lttire: Semifor 

The Observer page 11 
Noriega tapes barred from trial 
MIAMI (AP) -A judge Thursday barred CNN from broadcasting parts of taped conversations between Manuel Noriega and his attorneys and said it's becoming "more and more difficult" to assure a fair trial. 
CNN called the judge's order unconstitutional prior restraint, and continued its coverage while the network attorneys appealed the order. 
U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler issued his order at the request of Noriega's attorneys, who said airing the audio tapes would destroy the ousted Panamanian dictator's defense against drug smuggling charges. 
The network said the tapes showed Noriega was trying to build support in Panama, and intended to implicate the CIA as part of his defense strategy. 
"We are absolutely shocked and horrified that the United States government would wire­tap General Noriega and his lawyers engaging in the most sensitive of communications," said lead defense attorney Frank Hubino. 

He said he planned to demand a dismissal of the entire drug case. 
Hoeveler said he had to weigh Noriega's constitutional rights against the network's right to freedom of speech, and ordered CNN not to broadcast any tape that would interfere with at­torney-client privilege. He did not elaborate and said he would issue a further ruling late in the day. 
He also ordered the taping of Noriega's phone conversations stopped, and demanded an in­vestigation of the leak. 
"We will find out how the tapes got out, and appropriate aetion will be taken," the judge said. 
Federal prosecutors told the judge they have not heard the tapes and would be "blindfolded" during the inves­tigation. And they said that in any case, the defense was well aware of the routine taping done at prisons. 
The U.S. Attorney's office displayed a document in English and Spanish that Nor­iega signed, saying his phone conversations would be moni­
'Ifie J-!ispanic >tmerican Organization Presents: 
j'ortune Information 
'\ 

~ 
eCcome! a toc£os! 

o's own PJv[ Productio On{y Come Out at · lit' 

tored. They also showed a pho­tograph of his cell phone with the same notice attached. 
U.S. Bureau of Prisons spokesman Gregory Bogdan in Washington said monitoring of calls is routine, although he could not comment specifically on the Noriega tapes. 
"Everyone who comes into our system signs a release," Bogdan said. "The tapes are for our purposes, for security -its basically intelligence for the institution to prevent crimes." 
Prisoners are supposed to in­form guards when they wish to talk to their attorneys, and those conversations are not monitored, Bogdan said. lie added that he did not know if phone tapes were public record, but "I don't believe they are releasable." 
CNN President Tom Johnson did not say how the network obtained the tapes, but said it would continue to air them. 
"Becausn of our belief the order is unconstitutional, we will continue our coverage as we challenge this restraining order in the courts," he said. 
The tapes marked yet another controversy surrounding the case, including flaps over pay­ing defense attorneys, allega­tions that evidence was with­held from the defense, and even questions about an exercise bi­cycle and a shredder in Nor­iega's cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center. 
"It's becoming more and more difficult in this case to assure that both parties get a fair trial," Hoeveler complained during Thursday's hearing. 
CNN's broadcast marks the first time the tapes themselves 
~ have been made public, but not the first time their contents have made the media. New York Newsday published a story last month based on summaries of the tapes in which unidentified federal sources said it appeared the former Panamanian leader was attempting to organize resis­tance to the U.S.-supported government of President Guillermo Endara, which re­placed his regime. 
Noriega has been imprisoned since shortly after he surren­dered to U.S. troops in Panama after the December invasion. 
SfEAKS If·,.
PRIME RIB •·, SEAFOOD ~~~use
~!VJRAJVT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and 



-~--~--------------~-------------~----~----------------­
Viewpoint 
Friday, November 9, 1990

page 12 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O:Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS 

Unbelievers in Southeast challenge NO mystique 
Dear Editor; 
While spending my first fall in Richmond, Virginia, 720 miles southeast of the Dome, I have made a few basic observations: {1) I am still unable to find anyone with a decent recipe for Hungarian noodle bake; (2) I have a hard time adjusting to 80 degree weather in November; (3) it has been six months since graduation, and I still do not have a pair of plaid pants or a permanent job; and 
(4) nowhere is their less support for the Notre Dame football team than in the Southeast. 
I have been following the Notre Dame football team, physically, across the nation for five years. I have seen the Irish play teams from New York to California and from Miami to Colorado, but the one place where the Irish have played sparingly under Coach Holtz is the Southeast. (Bear in mind that the Southeast does not claim Miami either). In fact, we have played only one game-1986 against Alabama-in which the Irish lost to a Ray Perkins squad including the likes of Cornelius Bennett. 
Having grown up in the Southeast, a mere hour and a half drive from Knoxville, I have been anxiously awaiting the Notre Dame-Tennessee game to prove the strength of Notre Dame and our football program to my friends and critics throughout the area. In essence, our football team is an extension of the Notre Dame community. Their success exemplifies the excellence that we all strive to achieve. Each one of us represents that spirit of excellence from Notre Dame. I always noticed it at home during fall breaks when people were impressed just to know that I attended Notre Dame. 
Now our mystique is being extended into the mountains of Tennessee. 
The advantage of playing a national schedule is that it gives Notre Dame the opportunity to play the champions of every conference in the country. Under Holtz, the Irish have de­feated the ACC champion, the Big Ten Champions, the Big Eight Champions, the Pac 10 Champions and the National Champions. This Saturday the Irish are literally playing for the SEC Championship. Tennessee is only a victory over Mississippi from winning at least a tie for the SEC crown. A win over Notre Dame would secure their spot in the Sugar Bowl and resurrect their chances for the National title. 
Even though the two teams have not played for about ten years, their fans are treating this rivalry with as much inten­sity as the Notre Dame-Miami 

Democrat's victory brings pivotal change 
Dear Editor: 
Let the joyous news be spread: the Republican party in Texas is dead! A proud Texan and a loyal Democrat, I wish to publicly congratulate Texas Governess-elect Ms. Ann Richards for her hard-won vic­tory. Her common sense ap­proach and remarkable rapport with the working class of Texas is going to stand all people of the Lone Star State in good stead. Her victory in Texas, one of numerous states the President maintains is his home, is a signal of a funda­mental change that is affecting our nation's social and political ethos. 
Indeed, I believe that we are in the midst of the waning days 
DOONESBURY 
IN TH/3 ~OF 5tW 
fRANQ5CO 70NIGHT; 7He:R& 
15 MUCH JOY OV8R 7Ht3 R&-ctec,TION OF tACeY a4VeNPOKT.., 
t 
of the epochal misrule and in­competence effected by a suc­cession of Republican presiden­cies which have held sway in all but four years of my life. The Presidency is undeniably the single most significant office -if not by power of law, by sheer power of persuasion. Now that Texas is back in the Democratic fold, albeit by a close margin, the three stooges in the White House, John Sunnunu, James Baker and George Bush, are biting their nails at the reality that their tripartite presidency will not afflict the nation for any time beyond their present term. 
I spoke to my grandfather, schooled in his youth by a young Lyndon B. Johnson and who now makes his home in Lockhart, upon confirming the victory of Ms. Richards. He ex­pressed to me the opinion held by many Texas Democrats ­that the liberalism of Ann Richards is certainly more square with the heritage of Sam Rayburn, Lyndon Baines Johnson, Lloyd Bentsen and Henry Cisneros, and of the great state that they have dis­tinguished and empowered, than with the illiberalism and cowboy bravado of her oppo­
nent.  
Long Live Texas!  Long  Live  
the Democratic party!  And  
Long Live Ann Richards!  

Paul A. Peralez Dillon Hall Nov. 6, 1990 

series. I have been hearing how much they are going to kill us since the beginning of the summer. Volunteer fans have been counting the days to this game. It is no surprise that they consider this to be their biggest game of the year. The thing that does not surprise me is that many Irish faithful have said that if there is one game we could lose this year it would be at Tennessee. They are acting like Tennessee is the team with the mystique, the Rocket and the best record in the country over each of the last three years against top 20, top 10 and top 5 opponents. I admit that Tennessee will have 90,000 plus screaming fans, but they won't make any tackles or catch any passes. It will be a tough game, but I believe the Irish are up for the challenge. 
As I count down the final days before this game in my "backyard," I have only one thing to say to all the unbeliev­ers of the Notre Dame mys­tique: "Just wait 'til our team takes the field, then you'll see what the University of Notre Dame is all about." 
Matt Theil '90 Richmond, Virginia Nov. 7, 1990 

Students need caution when dealing with scholarship search enterprises 
Dear Editor: . 
It has come to my attention that a mailing has been sent to at least a portion of our stu­dents from an organization calling itself "College Financial Aid Service." Given the typically less than effective nature of promises made by these kinds of scholarship search enterprises, students are advised to use extreme caution. 
The organization asks stu­dents to complete a question­naire and return it with $45 with the promise of securing a list of potential student aid re­sources, suggesting that at least $100 would be found for each applicant or their money would be returned in full. 
However, students would first have to prove that they received a denial in writing from each of the referrals. As is often the case, some of the references do not respond at all, leaving the student in a difficult position. 
A mailing last year of a simi­lar nature resulted in the loss of a considerable amount of money by numerous individuals throughout the country, includ­ing Notre Dame students. The 
U.S. Postal Department, various state consumer protection agencies and Action Line Newspaper reporters have been investigating. 
Joseph A. Russo Director ofFinancial Aid Nov. 7, 1990 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
5/Na 5HeN&Vet< CAMPA!GN/31),  ...ANI/ fKJIAJ  
MRS. JJAV/3NFOI<T15 NOW IN TH/3  M.4NY7HINI<  A5HOW  
UNU51JA/, KJ5mON OFHAVING70  IA/135HOUW  OFHAN[)S,  
RNI/aJT lA/HAT'S ON VOT/31?3'  INVAW K/Jf,(IA/F  PI-CAS/3.' 
M/N/}5 AFTeR 7H/3/311iCT!ON!  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Irs better to swing and miss than let the ball go by.' 
J.A. Liebler 


I R I S H 

A Supplement to the Observer 
Friday, November 9, 1990 
THE GAME 
The Game 
Place 
Time TV & Radio 
Tickets Collegiate 
Notre Dame (7-1) at Tennessee (5-1-2) 
Neyland Stadium in Knoxville, Tenn. 
2:28p.m. 
CBS Sports: Jim Nantz, Tim Brant Mutual Hadio Network: Tony Hoberts, Torn Pagna 
The game is sold out 
Irish 1st, 
Sportswriters Volunteers 10th Poll Rankings 

AP Hankings  Irish 1st, Volunteers 9th  
Series  Tied at 1-1  
Last Game  Tennessee 40,  

Notre Dame 18 (1979) 

NO SCHEDULE 
Sept. 15 St~pt. 22 Sept. 29 (kt. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Oc~t. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 ND 28, Michigan 24 

NI> 20, Mirhii>'•n State 19 
ND 37, Purdue 11 
Stanford :~6. ND 31 ND 57, Air Force 27 
ND 29, Miami 20 
ND :n, Pittsburgh 22 
ND 52, Navy 31 
at Tennessee 
PENN STATE 
at Southern California 

TENNESSEE SCHEDULE 
Aug. 26 Sept. I Snpt. 8 Snpt. 15 St-pt. 29 Oct. 13 Oet. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 
Nov. 24 
I>ne. 1 
GAME NOTES 

Tennessee :n, Colorado 31 Tennessee 55, Pacific 7 Tennessee 40, Mississippi 7 Tennessee 56, UTEP 0 Tennessne 26, Auburn 26 Tennessen 45, Florida 3 Alabama 9, Tennnssoe 6 Tennessne 41, Temp In 20 NOTHE DAME MISSISSIPPI KENTUCKY at Vanderbilt 

•Tho last time Notre Dame and Tennessee met was oxactly I 1 years ago Saturday. The Irish took a 6-0 lead in that meeting in Knoxville, 
hut the Volunteers controlled the game the rest of tho way and rolled to a 40-18 victory. 
•In 
tho only other meeting between the two teams quarterback Joe Montana led the Irish to a 31-14 comeback victory at Notre Dame Stadium in 1978. 

•Tennessee 
enters the game with a 25-game winning streak in games played in November, I>t~cember and January. The Volunteers' last post-October loss came at the hands of Maryland in the Sun Bowl on Dec. 22, 1984. The Terrapins edged Tennessee 28-27 in that contest. 

•Top-ranked 
Notre Dame will be Tennessee's fourth top-1 0 opponent this season. The Volunteers have also tied Colorado (31-31) and Auburn (26-26) and defeated Florida 45-3. 


The Right Choice 
Todd Lyght finds his niche at cornerback 

By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 

Todd Lyght decided to transfer out of Notre Dame early in his freshman year when Irish coach Lou Holtz told him he was going to switch positions from wide receiver to de­fensive back. 
"When Coach Holtz told me that I was making the move to defensive back I thought, 'What is this man doing?"' Lyght recalls. "Coming out of high school, r thought I was this big offensive threat, and I thought, 'This man is messing with my future.' I went and called my father and told him I wanted to transfer because I didn't want to play defense. But my dad told me to stick with it and ev­erything would turn out for the best, and it did." 
Lyght had reason to think that he would be a threat lining up at the wide receiver position. In his senior year of high school he caught 38 passes for 877 yards and nine touchdowns. In Lyght's freshman year, though, the Irish had eventual lleisman Trophy winner Tim Brown returning at flanker ahead of Lyght, and Holtz apparently thought that the freshman had a better chance of contributing right away as a defensive back. 
It is an understatement to say that things have worked out well for Lyght since he decided not to transfer and began playing cornerback. The native of Flint, Mich., played in all 11 games his freshman year, starting two contests. His sophomore year he started 10 of a possible 11 games, and his junior year he started all 12 games, recording eight interceptions, and was a unanimous first­team All-American. At the beginning of the season,The Sporting News proclaimed him the best player in all of college football. 
Opponents respect him so much that they don't even think of throwing his way any more. 
"I think that people haven't been trying to force the ball toward me the way they did my junior year," Lyght said. "My sophomore campaign was pretty good, but I did give up some yardage. My junior year people thought they could exploit me again, but my game had improved a lot and I came up with some big plays. 
"Teams are staying away from me now because we have a lot of young guys in the secondary and they figure, why throw the ball to the All-American when they could just throw to the freshman side of the field?" 
The Irish secondary is young and inexperienced. It has been the brunt of much criticism all year. Lyght, who along with strong safety Greg Davis is the senior member of the unit, elaims that it will just take some time for those younger players to adjust to the college game. As a quad-captain of the Notre Dame squad, he does what he can to help his younger teammates become accustomed to the faster pace of college football. 
"The young guys that are out there, they all have the talent, they just lack the experience," Lyght says. "When I was a younger player, I made the same mistakes they do. I made mental errors and misjudged the ball when it was 

The Observer/ Kevin Weise 
Lyght knocks a Michigan receiver to the turf. 

The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey All-American cornerback Todd Lyght came to Notre Dame as a receiver, but has made his presence known by breaking up passes. 
in the air, but I just try to lead by example and encourage the guys. If I see something that will help them to improve their game, !let them know." 
The situation in the secondary this year is quite diffm­ent from that of last year. Lost to graduation were Pat Terrell. Stan Smagala and ()'Juan Francisco, all respected defensive backs in their own right. All were drafted to play in the National Football League. When those three players left there were some big shoes to fill in the Irish defensive backfield. 
"It was a big loss for our defense," Lyght says. "With those guys on the field, we were all running the 40-yard dash in 4.3 seconds in the secondary, and for everybody ~o be running 4.3s in a secondary is just incredible. That could have been an NFL secondary. But when you have a lot of young guys coming in here, trying to make up for that, there is no way to do that. We have to have our own identity and make up our own rules as far as the defense is concerned, and try to disguise a little bit." 
One thing that couldn't be disguised early in the season was Lyght's hamstring injury. The Irish star missed much of spring practice because of the injury but was ready for the opener against Michigan. On the last play of the first half against the Wolverines, he re-injured his hamstring and was forced to miss the next two games versus Michigan State and Purdue. 
"In the early part of the season when I wasn't playing," Lyght said, "it was frustrating. And then in the first couple of games after I got back-.Stanford and Air Force-it was frustrating because I wasn't playing as well as I would have liked to. But now I'm in my groove, so I'm just looking forward to my last couple of games." 
Lyght has more than a couple of games to look forward to. For starters, earlier in the week he was named as a semifinalist for the Thorpe Award, which is presented annually to the best defensive back in the country. Lyght finished second to USC's Mark Carrier in the Thorpe Award balloting last year. 
"That's a fun thing to be associated with," Lyght says. "Last year I had a great time in Oklahoma City. They're great people. You go down there and see the city, go to the hospital and visit some of the children. That's something that's fun to do-putting smiles on those little kids' faces. That's important." 
Even if he doesn't win the Thorpe Award, there is cer­
see LYGHT/page 4 


Irish Football '90 

page 2 Friday, November 9, 1990 
Notre Dame puts ranking on the line at Tennessee 
Underdog Irish will try to persevere in tough road test 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Irish defense versus the out the skills of All-America Volunteer offense. noseguard Chris Zorich, who
Assistant Sports Editor 
injured his knee against The first fact about the Pittsburgh and did not play

Head Coach Lou Holtz said against Navy. His replacement
Notre Dame's inclusion of Tennessee offense is its 
is sophomore Eric Jones, who is 

Tennessee on its 1990 schedule tremendous talent at wide re­
has not upset him, but he also ceiver. The trio of Carl Pickens, 6-6 but a comparatively skimpy said there may be others in the Alvin Harper and Anthony 233 pounds. Those pounds may Notre Dame community who Morgan rivals any in the coun­not be enough to be effective 
will not be throwing fiestas be­try and continues the against the Volunteers' line. cause of it. Tennessee tradition of pass 'The guy that's really upset is receiving excellence. Recent The Irish defense will be 
graduates from the Volunteer aided by the return of outside

the guy in Grace Hall on cam­pus," said Holtz, referring to receiving academy are first­linebacker Andre Jones, who the man responsible for placing round NFL picks Stanley missed games versus Pittsburgh the lighted "No. 1" sign atop the Morgan (1977). Anthony and Navy because of a thigh 
contusion he aggravated

residence hall when the Irish Hancock ('82). Willie Gault 
are the top-ranked football ('83), Clyde Duncan ('84), Tim against Miami. team in the country. "He had to McGee ('86) and Anthony Miller In the running game, go up there (last week) and put ('88). Tennessee lost star tailback that sign up and he knows he Pickens, tabbed by Tennessee Chuck Webb for the season might have to go up in .bad coach Johnny Majors as the when he went down with a 
weather and take it down." athlete with the most natural knee injury in the second game. ability he's ever seen, leads the In his place, Tony Thompson Holtz was finding humor in team in receptions with 26 has become the go-to man, an essentially problematic situ­catches for 486 yards (18. 7 gaining 776 yards on 125 
ation-being ranked No. 1 dur­avg.) and two touchdowns. Last carries for an average of 6.2 ing the season and having to year as a freshman Pickens yards. He's also rushed for 10 touchdowns.
defend the coveted title from doubled as a free safety and 
week to week. After beating recorded four interceptions in In the middle of this offensive Navy Saturday while previously four games. talent is quarterback Andy 
unbeaten Virginia and Harper, who has high-jumped Kelly, who has been somewhat Nebraska lost on the same day, 7 -feet, 2 1/2 inches, is a senior erratic this season. Although he the Irish moved back into the who currently stands sixth in has completed 98 of 174 passes nation's top position, and the career receiving yardage at for 1,253 yards and four 
man in Grace Hall went to Tennessee with 1,359 yards. touchdowns, he has thrown 10 work. He's fourth in career touch­interceptions. But now the Irish (7-1) must down catches with 11, and his In the three-game stretch in 
face Southeastern Conference 87 career receptions rank which Tennessee played power Tennessee (5-1-2) at eighth. This year he's caught 22 Auburn, Florida and Alabama, Neyland Stadium, and there is a passes for 3 79 yards (17. 2) and Kelly completed just 44.3 per­distinct possibility that the three scores. cent of his passes, throwing six lighted "No. 1" sign, so recently The Irish defensive sec­interceptions and one touch­
put back up, may fall frQm ondary, which gave up 161 down. What kind of game Kelly Grace. passing yards to Navy, 284 to has may determine the Holtz has said repeatedly that Pittsburgh and 354 to Purdue, Volunteers' ultimate success in 
he does not pay much attention now will have to face a receiv­the contest. to the polls, and in his press ing corps of a quality that it has conference Tuesday he called not seen thus far. And with the On the other side of Holtz's 
the ranking an "albatross" secondary's ineffectiveness at analysis, the Tennessee defense around the football players' critical junctures throughout looks no less dangerous than collective neck because of the the season, Holtz is experiment­the offense. Opposing teams expectations it generates. Still, ing with freshmen running have committed 30 turnovers 
oddsmakers have Notre Dame backs Willie Clark and Jeff against the Volunteers, while as the underdog in Saturday's Burris at defensive back this Tennessee has surrendered the 
2:28 p.m. EST contest against week during practice. ball 15 times. Notre Dame, by 
the Volunteers. A bulwark offensive line contrast, is even, committing 
"I think those people (who set complements the Volunteer re­and causing 14 turnovers. the odds) know what they're ceiving corps, including tackles "(Tennessee) is the best de­doing, I guess," said Holtz, re­Antone Davis and Charles fensive team we play," said 
ferring to the odds on the game, McRae. Davis, a 6-4, 310-pound Holtz. "Usually you try to look which has the Volunteers senior, is All-America material for something that can give you favored by as many as four and a top offensive line some hope. But we need some 
points. 'Td have to say that we prospect in the NFL draft. help with this one. Tennessee's would be the underdog. I think McRae and Davis comprise a defense does not have to win for us to win the football game tackle duo comparable to few the lottery. They probably 
would be an upset because of others in the nation. haven't bought a lottery ticket our defense against their of­"I think this is the best offen­this year. They're sitting on a fense and their defense against sive line that maybe we've gold mine and all they have to 
our offense." played against," said Holtz, do is make sure they don't lose 
Why, one asks, would the top­"and we've played against some it." ranked team in the country be awfully good ones, including New defensive coordinator the underdog against the ninth­Michigan. But this one is very Larry Lacewell, who coached ranked team in the country, impressive." the defenses at Oklahoma be­
Tennessee? For starters, take The Notre Dame defensive tween 1969-77, has part of that Holtz's advice and look at the line, meanwhile, might be with-gold mine in linebackers 
VOLUNTEER FACES TO WATCH 



Johnny Majors Carl Pickens Dale Carter 

Now in his 14th season as head Tennessee's leading receiver has The Volunteer free safety, a coach of the Volunteers, Majors caught 26 passes for 486 yards transfer from Ellsworth Junior has compiled a 93-54-6 record at and two touchdowns this season. College in Texas, has come on to Tennessee, and a 150-97-8 Pickens also returns kickoffs for lead Tennesse's defense, which record in 22 years of collegiate the Volunteers. The 6-2, 201-has caused 30 turnovers thus far coaching. Majors has won either pound sophomore also played at this season. Right now Carter has national of conference coach of defensive back last season, four interceptions and has the year honors in three different breaking up four passes and returned eight kickoffs for 238 head coaching jobs-at Iowa recording four interceptions. yards and a touchdown and 21 
State, Pittsburgh and Tennessee. punts for 295 yards. 

Earnest Fields, Shon Walker and Darryl Hardy. This trio is comprised of the top three tacklers on the team with 80, 64 and 61 tackles, respectively. Another key player is free safety Dale Carter, who has four interceptions after transferring at the start of the season from Ellsworth Junior College (Iowa). 
Perhaps the most impressive aspect of the Volunteer defense is how it works as a unit. It has not allowed a rushing touch­down since its first game of the season versus Colorado. It has surrendered only nine touch­downs in eight games. It has picked off 17 passes. Its pass defense leads the nation, giving up an average of 140.6 yards per game. And the Volunteer defense is ranked sixth in the nation against the score, aver­aging 12.75 points allowed. 
For the Notre Dame offense, then, the challenge is set. Holtz probably will not make many changes with that unit, which is averaging 434.3 yards of of­fense a game, including 252.9 on the ground. 
Senior tailback Tony Brooks and junior fullback Rod Culver most likely will be the starters at their positions, but Holtz has said that he may put Brooks at 
Tony Thompson The 5-7, 181-pound senior took over the starting tailback role when Chuck Webb suffered a season-ending injury early in the season. Thompson has gained 776 yards in 125 carries and scored 10 touchdowns this season for the Volunteers. He gained 248 yards on 22 attempts against Mississippi State Sept. 8. 
fullback and Culver at tailback to mix up the combinations. Look for the Irish to try to establish their running game early and stay with it, especially because of the Volunteers' suc­cess against the pass. Against the run, Tennessee is averaging 
131.1 yards per game. 
On special teams, fans will be treated to one of the best dis­plays in the country. Notre Dame has Heisman trophy can­didate and all-purpose return man Raghib Ismail (eight kick­off returns for 240 yards, 30.0 avg. and 1 TD; six punt returns for 69 yards, 11.5 avg.), while Tennessee has its own star in Dale Carter (21 punt returns for 295 yards, 14.1 avg.; eight kickoff returns for 238 yards, 
29.8 avg. and 1 TD. 
In the kicking game, Holtz expects Craig Hentrich to han­dle both the punting and the kicking, despite the fact that Hentrich has his right arm in a splint. Hentrich is averaging 
45.2 yards per punt on 17 at­tempts and has connected on 13 of 15 field goal attempts. Joey Chapman will handle the punting for the Volunteers (42.8 yds/punt), while senior Greg Burke (14 of 24 field goals) does the kicking. 

Earnest Fields Fields is the Volunteers' leading tackler with 80 thus far this season. Along with linebacking trio of Shon Walker and Darryl Hardy leads a defense that has given up just 140.6 yards passing per game this season. The 5-10, 228-pound junior also returned an interception 43 yards for a TO vs. Mississippi State. 

Irish Football '90 

Friday, November 9, 1990 page 3 
Bettis bounces back, becomes contributor 
By CHRIS COONEY slated as Culver's backup for Assistant Sports Editor tlw Michigan State game. Although he did not carry the 
Bounring ofT tacklPrs and ball until Notre Dame's third through thn opposition's dn­game, against Purdue, the f(Hlsn is becoming morn and young running back has pro­morn of a hahil for Irish full­gressed steadily since then, hark .Jeronw BPltis. But that gaining I08 yards on 14 carries shouldn't •·omP as a surpris•~ to for a 7. 7 yard average. anymw; in his three months at People began noticing his NotrP l>anw tlw frnshman has play versus t\ir Force, when dPvPiop•~d a reputation for Bettis rushed thn ball four 
houndng back. times for 46 yards, including a lkttis arrivml at prar.tkn this dazzling 30-yard breakaway in 
fall with a bruisPd quadricnps which hn draggod a Falcon de­and hamstring problem that fmulnr with him the last five fort'Pd him to miss a crucial yards. 
WPI'k-and-a-half of double ses­Hecent perforrnanens against sions. liP said thosn injurins, Pittsburgh and Navy. where he howev•H·, inspirPd him to push seon~d his first collegiate hardPr onc1• lw rncovnrnd, hard touchdown, havn drawn special nnough that lw has nrnnrged as notice from Head Coach Lou orw of llw standouts in Notre lloltz. 
DamP's tal•n1ted freshman "I think Jerome Bettis for a dass. froshman has really come along excnptionally well," said Holtz "I ranw in disappointed in this week. "lie's a very. very in­

The Observer/Kenneth Osgood

mysnlf, sincn I was injurnd." tense young man. lie defies all 
Freshman fullback Jerome Bettis (6) has seen increased playing time in relief of junior Rodney Culver the past 
said Bnltis. "I had something to descriptions of a freshman 
few weeks. Bettis scored his first career touchdown last weekend against Navy and is averaging 7.7 yards on
provn bneause I was afraid football player." 
his 14 carries. second on the team only to Raghib Ismail.
people would bn disappointnd Holtz has praised Bettis' in nw." blocking abilities, stating that definitely play much, much contributed to Bettis's out­the opportunity arises, he can 
That detllrmination intnnsi­it's been hard not to play him more," standing progress. contribute." fiPCI aftnr tlw opnner with lately, even though Culver leads "I think I'm corning into my "I think Jerome has a couple While Bettis agreed that ad­Michigan. Starter Hod Culver the team in rushing with 584 own in terms of blocking," said of qualities about him," said justing to college life has been was thn only fullback who saw yards. Bettis, crediting his 6-1, 235-Vaas. "Number one. he is a difficult at times both on and ofT action. pound frame. "I really didn't truly mature individual. Num­the field, he said he has been 
"I thought it was a disap­"I think his blocking is very know how to do it technique­ber two. he's very intelligent most surprised by the level of pointnwnt to the team that no good and he's a very. very good wise before I came here." and picked up things very intensity exhibited regularly at otlwr fullback played," said runner." Holtz said of Bettis Bettis also pointed to Culver quickly. Number three. he al­practice. Bettis. "So I dndd1~d to try and "lie's a very physical football as one of the main influences ways has a smile on his face. stnp up into thn forefront." player. lie just keeps getting behind his recent surge. He enjoys what he's doing." "The practice period is in­
t\nd stPp up he did. BPUis so better and better. I think "lie's helped me tremen­Vaas refused to compare Bet­tense on every play." said Bet­impressed coadws in the next Jerome Bettis is really corning dously," said Bettis, who, like tis to other Notre Dame full­tis, who as a senior at Macken­week's practices that he was along as a freshmen and he will Culver, hails from Detroit. Mich. backs. such as Culver and zie High School gained 1,355 ­
"lie tells me things the coaches former standout Anthony yards and 14 touchdowns while couldn't really tell me; number Johnson. being rated one of thn country's one, how to be physical and to "He's developing into being top 100 freshmen by virtually be in the proper position on dif­his own kind of player," said every national sporting ferent plays. t\nd number two, Vaas. explaining that, while magazine. Bettis, who also since he's played against all of Culver and Johnson may pos­played linebacker in high these teams. he gives me tips sess more raw speed, Bettis is school and finished with 157 on their tendencies in a game." bigger and only needs more tackles. one intere~~ption and 
Bettis added that there is no playing experience. "He could nine passes broken up, was animosity between the two have a great future if he doesn't named the best player in Michi­competitive fullbacks. sit on his laurels. Game time gan by the Detroit Free-Press. 
will help him more than "The competition is not 
"We're just trying to make anything. The more you play nearly as tough in high school," ourselves better and take it to a the more you see. The more he said. higher level," said Bettis. you see, the quicker you react." Bettis. however, has proved 
Bunning back coach Peter Vaas added that it requires himself worthy of the competi­Vaas agreed. more than just talent to shine in tion at the collegiate level as 
"llaving two or three people Notre Dame's freshman class, well. /\!though he said he still that are capable of playing at a touted as the best in the nation. has mueh to learn and plays in­certain position makes every­"Being able to take a high consistently at times. if the one on the team better," said school career and change it into glimpses Notre Dame has seen Vass. "It pushes them all. Cul­a successful college eareer right of this young running back sig­
I he Observer/Kenneth Osgood ver has really taken him under away is something not everyone nify anything, the Irish have Bettis credits Culver (5), Notre Dame's leading rusher, with helping him his wing." is able to do," he said. "Jerome another great fullback on their improve his game as the season has progressed. Vaas said three factors have has prepared himself so that if hands. 

DEPTH CHART 

TAILBACK 40 Tony Brooks 12 Ricky Wat1ers

Irish Offense 
FULLBACK 5 Rodney Culver 6 Jerome Bellis 

SPLIT END FLANKER 63 Tony Sm~h
QUARTERBACK

25 Raghib Ismail 67 Lake Dawson 17 Shawn Davis 3 Rick Mirer 
TACKLE 15 Kevin McDougal73 Justin Hall 
fJiil 
TACKLE 76 Gene McGuire ~ 53 Winston Sandri 
~ ~-~...~ ~ 

GUARD 86 Derek Brown 74 Mirko Jurkovlc 55 Mike Heldt 
TIGHT END GUARD CENTER 
52 Tim Ryan 64 lrv Smith 72 Joe Allen 61 Tim Ruddy 
75 Aaron Taylor 

LEFT TACKLE RIGHT TACKLE Volunteer Defense 74 Mark Moore 53 car~ Bailey 
~i~r~N~ms ~ 4~azzon ~Y ~ urla~J~~Lc~tfmith 

99 Kacy Rodgers 4J 4J V V 58 Todd Kelly OUTSIDE LINEBACKER p,
67 Darryl Hardy 
p, 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 

90 Lance Nelson 23 EarnesfFields 
46 Eric Riffer MIDDLE LINEBACKER 45 Shan Walker 41 Reggie Ingram 

CORNERBACK ~ 25 Jeremy Lincoln CORNERBACK 6 J.J. McCleskey STRONG SAFETY FREE SAFETY 22 Floyd Miley 
36 Mark Fletcher 18 Dale Carter 
13 Dave Thomas 
5 Roderick Lewis 21 Preston Warren 
p TAILBACK

Volunteer Offense 
p 
24 Tony Thompson 28 Tavio Henson WINGBACK 
61 Alvin Harper (\ FULLBACK 1 VInce Moore ~ 
42 Rolando Poles 
47 Greg Amsler 

QUARTERBACK SPLIT END 
6 Andy Kelly 15 Cart Pickens GUARD 11 Lloyd Kerr 60 Anthony Morgan 73 Doug Baird 
(\ J~8~}r~es McRae P
TIGHT END 

89 Von Reeves ~ 75 Bernard Dalney 63 Mark Adams 
P~P~P.P 
-
GUARD 
50 Tom Myslinski 78 Antone Davis 57 Brian Spivey 
TACKLE 51 John Fisher 
63 Rodney Gordon 65 Patrick Lenior 
Irish Defense NOSE TACKLE 
61 Eric Jones TACKLE
TACKLE 95 Junior Bryant 93 Bob Dahl 69 George Williams 64 Peter Rausch

97 Bryant Young OUTSIDE LINEBACKER OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
-
7 Andre Jones 
37 Scott Kowalkowski 6J. 

45 Devon McDonald ~ 
~49 Anthony Peterson 
INSIDE LINEBACKER INSIDE LINEBACKER 42 Michael Stonebreaker 36 Donn Grimm 44 Jim Flanigan 
31 Demetrius DuBo~ 
CORNERBACK 

~ ~ CORNERBACK
33Greg Lane 

FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 1 Todd Lyght 
41 Reggie Brooks 1'3 Tom Carter 26 Greg Davis 21 Rod Smfih 27 George Poorman 29 John Covington 

Irish Football '90 
page4 Friday, November 9, 1990 
Volunteers still in thick of battle for SEC crown 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
While Tennessee fans anx­iously count down the final days before the Volunteers' long­awaited meeting with top­ranked Notre Dame, upstart Mississippi waits in the wings. 
The sixteenth-ranked Rebels (8-1, 4-1) defeated Louisiana State 19-10 last week to remain tied for the Southeastern Conference lead with Florida (which cannot win the SEC title due to its NCAA probation) and is in contention for its first Sugar Bowl bid since 1969. 
Mississippi is idle this week, giving the Rebels extra time to prepare for their Nov. 17 con­test against the Volunteers. A

<· 
victory will virtually secure the 

-
SEC title for Ole Miss, barring a loss to last-place Mississippi State (3-5, 0-5) on Nov. 24. 
Mississippi's meteoric rise to the top of the SEC, where it fin­ished in a fourth-place tie with Florida and Georgia last sea­son, seems as improbable as Auburn's recent collapse. 
After upsetting Florida State three weeks ago, the Tigers (3­1-1, 6-1-1) struggled to a 17-16 win over Mississippi State on Oct. 27 before Florida sent them reeling to their worst de­feat in 40 years last Saturday. 
The Gators' 48-7 victory knocked Auburn out of a three­way tie for the SEC lead with Florida and Mississippi. The Tigers had not lost that badly since a 41-0 defeat to Clemson in 1950. 
Preseason prognosticators expected more from Auburn in 1990. Much more. The Tigers were picked not only to win the SEC title (which they shared with Tennessee and Alabama in '89), but also to contend for the National Championship. 
Auburn currently stands at No. 15 in the Associated Press Top 25 College Football Poll, with Mississippi looking over its shoulder at No. 16. 
Ninth-ranked Tennessee (5-1­2, 2-1-1) entered the '90 season intent on avenging last season's loss to Alabama, the only blem­ish on its '89 record (11-1, 6-1). But the Crimson Tide edged the Volunteers 9-6 in the Oct. 20 rematch between the two teams. 
Tennessee's 45-3 pounding of tenth-ranked Florida a week earlier may be the only factor keeping the Volunteers in the top 10. Tennessee tied both Colorado and Auburn in the first five weeks of the season and faces a late-season slate that includes Notre Dame, Mississippi, Kentucky and Vanderbilt. 
Florida (7-1, 4-1) threatened to throw the whole national championship picture into dis­array when it surged through the first five games of the sea­son undefeated. The Gators, behind first-year coach Steve Spurrier, reached No. 9 the week before the Tennessee game while AP voters and bowl representatives shuddered at the prospect of having a top­ranked team that was ineligible for post-season play. 
Alabama (4-4, 3-2), mean-


while, seemed poised for a re­turn to greatness following an '89 season in which it finished 10-2 (6-1) and earned a bid to the Sugar Bowl, where it faced eventual national champion, Miami.The school's administra­tion and alumni pledged to stand by Alabama graduate and Head Coach Gene Stallings, while preseason enthusiasm in Tuscaloosa reached heights not seen since Bear Bryant's days. 
The Crimson Tide lost its first three games by a combined to­tal of eight points, however, and tumbled to the SEC cellar. The victory over Tennessee has been the only bright spot in an otherwise disappointing season. 
For Mississippi, though, a victory next week over the Volunteers will mean a great deal more. 

firms in America. I'd like to get into that. I know next year if I
Lyght 
do play pro ball during the off­season I will be attending Newcontinued from page1 
York University to study real tainly a National Football estate." League career in Lyght's future. In the meantime, though, he But he has not limited his life will concentrate on helping the after graduation strictly to Irish march on in their drive football. toward the national champi­
"I would definitely like to play onship. Lyght realizes that the in the NFL if the opportunity performance of the secondary presents itself," Lyght says. will be crucial to Notre Dame's "The NFL is giving away a lot of title hopes, especially in money these days, more than Saturday's game against any company, so if I get the op­Tennessee. The defensive backs portunity to do that I will defi­must rise to the occasion nitely pursue it. against Tennessee's talented 
receivers if the Irish are to im­
"But I also want to go into the prove on their 7-1 record. family business, which is real "When you have such a young estate. My grandfather owns a secondary like we have, teams 
real estate firm called Webb are going to exploit that any and Broker, which is based in way they can and we fell victim Harlem, N.Y. It is one of the to a couple of teams where we largest black-owned real estate gave up a lot of yardage and a 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, Bill Bilinski of The South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcomes of the week's major 


college football games. Records 
are compiled as to how each Frank Pastor Bill Bilinski 
person does against the spread. Associate South Bend 
In other words, it isn't enough Sports Editor Tribune

-
to pick the winner of a given 52-42-4 48-46-4 game. 
Last Week: Last week: 7-7 8-6 lllini lllini
MICHIGAN 11 over Illinois 
Sundevils Cardinals Houston 1 1/2 over TEXAS Cougars Cougars IOWA 5 over Ohio St. Hawkeyes Buckeyes 
PENN ST. 14 1/2 over Maryland Nittany Lions Terrapins ARIZONA 6 over Stanford 

-Cowboys Cowboys
B.Y.U.15 over WYOMING WASHINGTON 21 over Ucla 
Huskies Huskies FLORIDA 181/2 over Georgia Gators Bulldogs Virginia 19 over N C Cavaliers Cavaliers ALABAMA 141/2 over LSU Tigers Tigers LOUISVILLE 121/2 over B.C. 

Cardinals Cardinals--Boilermakers Boilermakers
Purdue 3 over NORTH-

lot of points, but we can't worry yard touchdown reception on supposed to field it ran past me. about that," Lyght says. "We're Auburn cutting back against "I saw open field, so I just winning ball games and that's the secondary. They've got took off running. I got down the the most important thing. I some world class sprinters over sidelines about 10 or 15 yards think for us to be a great team there. But it's nothing that I and I looked to see who had the we're going to have to be great haven't seen before." angle and it was the kicker and, in the secondary over the next One thing Lyght saw for the I think, a linebacker, so I couple of games, because we first time in his collegiate ca­figured I could take it all the can make the difference reer last weekend was a chance way in." between winning and losing the to race down the sideline to­national championship." ward the endzone with the ball. And so Lyght, who once fig­
Of particular concern to Lyght, who has made many big ured that he would spend his Lyght's unit are Volunteer re­plays on special teams for Notre entire career racing toward the ceivers Carl Pickens, Alvin Dame throughout his career, endzone as a flanker, scored Harper and Anthony Morgan. grabbed an onsides kick late in the first touchdown of his ca­
"They're very good," Lyght the game against Navy last reer. But things didn't turn out says. "They've got a lot of weekend and raced past the exactly the way he had speed. I know Tennessee likes dumbfounded Midshipmen for a planned; they turned out better. to run the ball. If they could run 53-yard touchdown. Nobody will ever know what the ball off tackle and be "The thing about the onside Todd Lyght could have accom­successful every play, they kick return team is the main plished as a receiver, but one would do that, but they've got thing we want to do is get pos­thing is for certain. Both Lyght great wideouts. Carl Pickens is session of the ball," Lyght said. and the Irish are glad he didn't a very explosive receiver. I was "The kicker kicked it and I got a transfer when Holtz decided to watching films and I saw one of good bounce, and I caught the convert him into a d~fensive the wide receivers get a 60-ball and the two guys who were back. 
0 






Chris Cooney Assistant Sports Editor 48-46-4  Jeff Jeffers Guest Celebrity 47-47-4 Last week:  Ken Tyslac Associate Sports Editor 47-47-4  Scott Brutocao Assistant Sports Editor 40-54-4  Greg Guffey Sports Editor 37-55-4 Last week:  
Last week:  7-7  Last week:  Last week:  5-9  
7-7  4-10  7-7  
Wolverines  lllini  Wolverines  lllini  Wolverines  
Sundevils  Sundevils  Sundevils  Cardinals  Sundevils  
Longhorns Hawkeyes Nittany Lions Cowboys Huskies  Longhorns Buckeyes Nittany Lions Cowboys Bruins  Cougars Hawkeyes Nittany Lions Cougars Huskies  Longhorns Hawkeyes Nittany Lions Cougars Huskies  Cougars Buckeyes Terrapins Cougars Bruins  
Gators Cavaliers  Gators Cavaliers  Bulldogs Cavailiers  Bulldogs Cavaliers  Bu.ldogs Cavaliers  
Crimson Tide Cardinals  Tigers Cardinals  Tigers Cardinals  Crimson Tide Cardinals  Tigers Eagles  
Boilermakers  Wildcats  Boilermakers  Boilermakers  Boilermakers  

WESTERN 

Spartans Gophers Spartans Spartans Spartans
M SU 5 over MINNESOTA Spartans Gophers 

Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish
Irish Irish
TENNESSEE 4 over Notre Dame 

----------------~--~, 
Accent 

Friday, November 9,1990 page13 

By MAGGIE MACDONALD 
Accent Writer
Musicians share time as well 
Causes seem to come and go. Care of the handicapped, the 
latest of issues, has been ad­dressed in films as well as in government legislation. Irene and Noah Carver will shar•~ their own talents and energies for the benefit of the handi­capped in a November 11th concert at Indiana University at South Bend. 
llowever, their involvempnt with the handicapped is not fleeting. The Carvers have a special attachment to tlw dis­abled. These South BPnd musi­cians arP both blind. 
Although legally blind, Mr. Carver attended public schools until hn was eleven. lie tlwn enten1d a school for tlw blind, when~ hP began to feel confi­dent in his skills and devPiop a s11nsitivity for other disabled persons. Them lw took a young retarded boy into his earn. 
Outside of the dassroom, Mr. Carver had been under the tutelage of an elderly blind gui­tarist. By age six he was playing for money, and by age nine he had made several appearances on radio. 
His wife, who was born blind, also developed her musical abilities early in life. Iter training in piano, guitar and voice led to jobs in various Cincinnati coffeehouses. Together the Carvers have performed throughout Indiana and are known for their folk music. Last year the Carvers were invited to the White I louse to perform for the Very Special Arts Festival. 
Their concert Sunday will feature pop, folk, light rock and children's music. Proceeds for the show will benefit People Helping Special People, a non­profit organization which pro­vides support to families, friends and professionals who live and work with the disablnd. 
Tickets are $4 for adults ( 12 and up) and $2 for children. They can be purchased at all South Bend and Mishawaka Kroger Stores, Majereks's Hallmark-Headers World Stores, North Village Mall. Town & Country Shopping Centre and Sue's llallmark. 
The concert begins at 2:00 
as hardships with disabled 
... 

p.m. on Sunday, November 11 in Northside Hall's auditorium at IUSB. 
ABC heats up Thursday nights with 'Gabriel's Fire' 
If any rPaders havn actually and this whole t11l11vision season The latest episode of Earl Jones. "Corning to paid attention to the wenkly appears to be pitiful at this Marc Johnson "Gabriel's Fire" focused on a America" did not showcase this tf~levision reviews in this eol­juncture. To Be Continued ... topic which is extremely rele­fine actor's talent, but his star­umn, orw fact is overwhelm­vant to our current social ring role in "Gabriel's Fire" al­ingly obvious. Of all the reviews For theso reasons, I am vory scene. Publications from lows him to shine. Jones' of this nPw Fall season, only pleased to present a review of Gabriel Bird is still attempting "Sports Illustrated" to "Dick booming voice, rage at soeinty 
one has be1m opPnly positiv11. "Gabriel's Fire." This series to live a normal, productive life Tracy" have been dealing with and stubborn ways mak11 him a takes a serious look at some in society. the problem of murder for ath­likeable charact11r, and his per­"This series takes a difficult problems in our soei11ty, Bird was freed from his con­letic shoes and it is addressed formance is r11alistic enough to and presents these problems in finement by Victoria Heller in this series also. inspire this emotion. 
serious look at some 
a way that is very interesting (Laila Robins), who is a young The link between the athlete "Gabriel's Fire" also obtains difficult problems in our and thought-provoking. criminal lawyer with a mind-set who promotes expensive ath­an element of power from the Perhaps there are things that to change the world. letic shoes and his moral re­actual staging of the program.
society and presents them 
seem more appealing than hav­sponsibility to the poor minori­Lighting is used very effectively, in a way that is very ing 1m11's thoughts provoked on She does love the media ties who purchase these shoes and the contrasts bntween light interesting ..." a Thursday night, but this pro­attention her work warrants, is established, but the answer and dark are very well done. gram is nonetheless worth a but she reopens Gabriel's case to this problem is never discov­The feeble light of tlw prison Although "'1\vin P1mks" is ac­study break. because she honestly believes ered as it has not been discov­makes one feel its oppressive 
tually a year old, it obtairwd a he has been wronged, and her ered in real life. air. 
positivn review as a new pro­The s11rins is centmed around belief proves to be justified. For The larger picture of a 
gram, hut fnw vi11wers hav11 the difficulties of ex-cop Gabriel this reason she hires Gabriel troubled society that murders Wh11n all aspects of this pro­
agn~NI with this opinion. I gav11 Bird (James Earl Jones). The Bird as her investigator. for shoes is paint11d in detail by gram are analyzed -the acting 
an optimistic rating to "The former police officer's The season premiere of the story of the troubled youth of James Earl Jones, and the 
Frnsh l'rincn of Bnl Air," but the difficulties arise from a twenty­"Gabriel's Fire" will again air who committed the violent act. quality of th11 issues addressod ­
-
snrins has dismally failed any hop1~s it might havn inspir11d. 
NorH~ of the thirtnPn rww sit­roms of this season rank any­when~ nnar thn top programs, year prison term for shooting his partner during a bad bust. 
N1111dlcss to say, th11 outsid11 world is not kind to those who have b11nn on the inside, and 
tonight at 9 p.m. on ABC so the original background of the series can still be seen, and this early episode is definitely worth the time. 

All things considered, the story is int11resting and somewhat hopeful for the future. 
The plot is made more force­ful by the presence of James make "Gabri11l's Fire" a worthwhile experi11ne11 that must bP taken advantage of, for few such programs exist at the current time. 
----------~~-­
page 14 The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be 
Classifieds 

prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Need ride FOR 2 to PITI for $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 PENST GA TIX-YOU NEED PENN ST. TIX -2 GAs & Short blonde needs riders to and THANKS. break Diane x4902 Wealthy Physician to Pay NAME PRICE-IF 3 STUDS -or 5 GAs from Atlanta for Christmas break. NOTICES Big Bucks for PENN STATE TOGETHER=MORE $$ Call Kathleen x2607 Can leave anytime alter Monday 
G.A:'s or STUDS #1567 of finals week. Please call 273­TYPING AVAILABLE x 1935 ask for Alex BIG brothers coming and I need 2078 Ask for Jeannie. 
FOR RENT 

287-4082 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FOR SALE: 2 Married Stud tix Penn State tickets! 3 GAsl $$$ for Penn St. Best offer by tonight! Caryn 289-9417 BRIGHTEN SOMEONE'S DAY 
JUST SAY NOI BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I need MANY Penn State GAs, Call Chris @ 1720 Best time to call: 5-7pm. with balloons from Irish Gardens!! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's 219-291-7153 preferably in groups. Call Paula-Books, corner of ND ave. & 283-4096. 4 Penn St Stud Tix for sale Best Please: I need 2 Penn St. GA's for Top 10 Quotes from Japan: Howard. 233-2342 NEAR N.D. Duplex available. offer X4823,4819 seriously depressed relative I Joe 
1 bdrm-$265 I NEED PENN ST & Tenn X1599 10-Pulling an Ann Marie GRADUATE STUDENTS 2 bdrm-$360 tixs.272-6306 Need two Penn St. GAs and o~e 9---Holy Chowder! S.O. Dude! FACULTY dep., references stud tix. Darrell 283-3302. I need 2-4 Penn State GA's. call 8-Hey Matt, Curry Rice Again? STAFF 616-483-9572. Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355 John at 288-1768 7-l'm sooo hungry! THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB PLEASE HELP 6-Chiisai Katsudo? Doozo Dare IS OPEN exclusively TO YOU! Capacious room in 4-bedroom Need stud tix for Penn St. Call PLEASE ME BELIEVE IT OR NOT­Kara? Dare Demo ii Desu FRIDAY 5:00PM-9:00PM house. Monthly rent< $1 00 Geoff at 271-5686. PLEASE ! BEER CAN FREEZE! 5--You Gatta Get it From NO COVER CHARGE! Wkg distance from capmus I HAVE RELATIVES COMING, sell your PENN ST. STUD TIX Somewhere 
Call 288-8927 or 271-1208 Need 4 PENN ST. GAs AND NEED 4 PENN. ST. GA'S. I for $$$. Matt X4235 4-M.C. Anvil and His Sidekick Typing BIG MONEY. WILL PAY LOTS OF CASH FOR Hook-Up Pickup & Delivery FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 call Rob 259-3268 THEM. FLO x 1696 3-You Breed? 277-7406 BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE 2-Mochiron Ofuro De Senzurio 
CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY Penn State GA's please. Paige HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME Need 2 G.A. and 4 student tix Kakimasu NEED A RESUME? 273-9406 OR 283-2805 x2980. BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S for Penn State 1-So, Is this like the Blind Capital Give us a call at 239-7471 or stop CALL 273-1364 Call Maureen 284-5402 of the World, or What? by our office in Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap I need 4 GA's for Penn State! 314 LaFortune Student Center. 15 min. Walking from Campus Sandy x4121 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at P.S. Hey Tina, stay out of trouble 
Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 283-1818 and leave a message. I NEED TWO PENN STATE G.A.'s you goddess of Viruses. OBSERVER TYPESETIING Bob x3234 NEED PSU STUD TKTS CALL STEVE AT 273-9471. Remember, no one EXPECTED CALL 1363 Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll Pearl Harbor! miss you, MO. be happy! Cristin x3857 NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's I NEED 4 PENN ST GA's I need 2 Penn State GA's 
l LOST/FOUND II~_F_O_R_SA_LE___, 

GWEN X1327 I need two tickets for Penn State. CALL JOHN x4141 Molly x4189 GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. >>>LOST<<< One-Way air ticket to/from I need your help. BRACELET OF GOLD LETIERS South Bend, to/from Phila., I need two tickets for Penn State. Need 2 Penn St. GA's. Call John Dear Admirer: which spell N.Y.C., or Wash.D.C.; good My high school teacher is a GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. (x1177). I read your letter over and over I LOVE YOU anytime except holidays; graduate from Indiana University. '1hrough the night" and I'm sorry, Obvious sentimental value $100, Mike 288-2083 He's was pretty cool. Need GA's for PENN STATE. Call but I don't know who you are. REWARD NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA Julie at 3505! Please satisfy rny curiosity. 288-7976 89 Cavalier Sports Coupe I need at least two tickets to the TIX FOR UTILE SIS PLEASE!! Sincerely... L.N.A. red-stereo-clean IU/ND basketball game for him CALL SARAH 2815 
LOST: A bestoffer2729770 and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). NEED TENNESSEE TIX; please xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 Please .... I need Penn St tix call Tim 912-750-0890. XXX somewhere between P.W. and the AIRLINE ROUND TRIP Jeff x3320 lake. Please return -great VOUCHER. $15011! TRAVEL Give me a call and we can make a We need LOTS of Laura Williams ... sentimental value! MUST BE COMPLETED BY DEC. deal. Cris @4842 Need Penn St Stud & GAs Penn St. GA's! Happy Half. 
••••••REWARD*••••• 19. FOR MORE INFO CALL Todd x1724 Call Sara or Barb x4419 I Love You! call Kate or Amy at 4550. KELLY AT 284-4422. I need FOUR PENN GA'S for rich 
alum. Will pay good money. $$$$$ I. B. Lost -on 11/3 Dark red and black 1977 BUICK SKYHAWK,$550 OR Call Corey@ 1351 I need 2 Penn State GA's I NEED PENN ST TIX camera -35mm-dropped by the BO. Call Najeh 239-5638 or 271-Call Katie x3771 REBECCA X4329 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Grotto or on the shuttle. If you 1208. XXX picked it up, please call Jenny Need $$$$$ 284-4055. I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S two WISHTEDS 
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE Penn PENN ST GA NEEDED NEED PENN STATE STUDENT HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY! LOST: On Nov. 6, a gold NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-State MONEY NO OBJECT MIKE OR GA TICKET. CALL PAUL CALL X1388 pendant, possibly on Stepan 1364 GAs. X1588 AT 271-9950. 
Fields, but it could be Jay We all, like, wish you a anywhere on campus. It's a Plane ticket to Boston for sale: x2290 PSU tix needed: studs or GA's sweet & happy 18th birthday. dove with three circles L-11/20 R-11/25 call288-2195 I NEED USC TIX!! CALL STEVE around it, and it's about half ****ONLY $190:••••• HEY HEY HEY I 273-9472 *Golden Woman· Karen! 
an inch tall and half an inch Please call x4809 Make my day Need 4 Penn State GA's. wide. Please call Elizabeth Sell me two Penn GA's Call Pete x1097. Love, Liz, Jenny, Staph, at4097! FOR SALE Andrea, Lakeza, Melinda, & 
Magnavox Wordprocessor Thanksl X3821 SELL YOUR PSU STUDS/GAS & Breah 
**REWARD** $375 nego. I'LL LOVE YOU LIKE YOU'VE S.O.S. We need Penn St. TIX I lost my RED PLAID Tom x1763 PLEASE! I need 2 Penn State NEVER BEEN LOVED. I'LL ALSO Call Bob at x1170. Annie Cahill-UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 GA's. $$Call4431 PAY YOU LIKE YOU'VE NEVER Happy 20th B-day! in Hesburgh library. VERY high 1984 Chevy Cargo Van -only BEEN PAID NEED PSU GA OR STUDENT Love­sentimental value (plus, 31,749 miles-$1500 or best offer HAVE 4 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST MIKE #1223 TIX Amy"Mc" it is unique and I would -call Kathleen or Shirley at 239-BEST OFFER 271-0999 TERRI4837 (Happy late B-day to Katie) definitely recognize it!) Please call 7471 Need 2 Penn St. GA's for visiting 2983 with info $$$$$ grandparents who will spend BIG I Need Penn St tix, studs and ••••••*LIVE BAND******** NQA. I really need my umbrella! PLANE TICKET TO ST. LOUIS $$$ GAs, call x3501 
**REWARD** FOR SALE! I!! Need 5 USC tix Call Pat x1900 "JET SCREAMER" L 11/21 R 11/25 Call Arthur x1610 X X X X X X X X X X AT 
Found at Miami game: ONLY $140.00 Need 2 Penn St GA's -one shoe Call Tony Judge at 287-4232 $$$$$ Call Tim x1368 REQUIRE 2 PENN ST GA'S BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S -one pair of sunglasses and leave message. CALL JEFF@277-3998 
Call Matt @3472 to identify. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. JOHN Need 4 Penn St GA's. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT 
FOR SALE!! Crate G-60 guitar 271-0452. Call x2891. xxxxxxxxxx WATCH NEAR STONEHENGE. amplifier ... mint condition, NOVEMBER 9th & 1Oth CALL LEN AT 277-9373 TO tremendous sound ..... give-away NEED: PENN ST. GA's NEED GA'S NEED 1 Penn GA IDENTIFY. price. 2 channels/built-in call TRACY @273-9033 PENN & USC Amy x1343 ••••····uvE BAND**•••••• 
reverb/12"celestian speaker. A 272-9770 Lost: 11/3-A double-stranded personal favorite of Yngwie Help! Please sell me two I NEED Penn St. tickets Laurie & Diane pearl bracelet with two clear Malmsteen, the cornerstone of his Penn St. GA's -call Karen at NEEDED: Two GAs and four Student and GAs stones somewhere between P.E. sound .... make it yours today .... 271-1893 student tix for Penn State. Call Mark at x2506 What do you think the chances are and Carroll or in the haunted Call #1732 and ask for Scott or Call Matt at 288-7568. that S. Plumb will take advantage house. It's not real, so it has no Alex Lifeson. I need Penn ST. stud I'LL BUY YOUR PENN. ST. of the potential triple-whammy? real value except that my little call Tim x1416 NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND STUD. sister gave to me for Christmas. If Gorgeous Brown 1980 Custom STUD. TIX. CALL GREG X1594 STAY TUNED FOR DAILY found, please call Cheryl at 4321. Dodge Van I NEED PENN ST. GA'S CALL JOHN 234-5840 UPDATES ON THE CONTINUING 
New clutch and muffler PLEASE CALL X2049 LYONS SOPHOMORE SAGA! LOST LOST A brown leather Interior completely carpeted HELP! I NEED 2 GAs FOR PENN Help!! Need one Penn State GA FOSSIL WATCH with a brown Sunroof and rear ceiling vent Need 4 Penn State GA's call STATE. for Poor Relative. granite face was lost in La Fortune Slant-6 engine and body in great at 2786; if not in leave message PLEASE CALL ALFRED@ 1563 Call Kevin 1589 on Nov. 6 sometime between Bpm shape SPOOKY ZOO! and 12am. I would really like to Highway miles NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's. PLEASE HELP! get it back because it was a gilt Call Mark x2506 WILL TRADE 2 TENN. OR PAY$. I NEEEEED PENN ST. GA'S from my Mom!! I'd really CALL KATHY AT·284-5159. JILL x 4852 \ PERSONALS appreciate it if you would please I have FOUR USC Tix MARIANNE AND SALLY, call Karen 284-5023. Julie at x2950 PARENTS NEED 2 PENN STATE I need two Penn St. GAs and one hi ag HEY WOMEN!!!!!! I HOPE WE 
GAs! WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL stud. Call Darrell at 283-3302. HAVE A BLAST TONIGHT. RAJA AT x1678. HELP SATURDAY NIGHT WE WILL NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND ROCK. BUT, DON'T DO 
L-----w_A_N_TE_o-----JI I~=T=-IC_K_ET_s_____. 

•• WE NEED** PLEASE I really AREA FOR THANKSGIVING ANYTHING I WOULDN'T DO 
PENN STATE PLEASE need WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS WITH YOUR INCREDIBLY "HOT" HELP WANTED: Earn up to $700 Need $$$?Sell TIX! PLEASE PENN STATE CALL DAVE X1955. DATES. DON'T WORRY I'LL wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start your ga's to all X4079 PLEASE tix PROTECT YOU. DON'T immediately. Work at home. For home games. PLEASE call Kate @4071 ATIENTION!!!!! FORGET, WE ARE FLOWERS info send SASEto: Call tom x1597. NEED PSU GA'S TOM 234-8608 PLEASE THANKS!! One black and gold watch lost at OF MARY AND WE WISH TO VicKorp, P.O. Box 750, Notre $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ the girls flag football playoff KEEP OUR VIRTUE INTACT!!!! Dame, IN 46556. WINDCHILL games on Sunday at Stepan field. LOVE, 
FROSTBITE Need Penn state GA's/Student I NEED PENN ST. TIX. If you have any information about ME 4 PENN ST. GA'S needed NOV17 tickets. Have cash let's talk. STUDENT it please call Anne at 288-0597. call Chris 3419 PENN ST Call Mark or Steve at 2506 OR GA'S -DOUG X1852 
Need I say more? Tickets lor RICH RILEY, Earn $300 to $500 per week Ryan need 2 stud tix We need Penn State GA's HI! Reading Books at home. Call x1048 Please call 284-5239 Need tix for PENN ST. GAME. "Fiesta de las Americas" LOVE,
-1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. Will pay anything!!! Please Call JEANNE 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS FOR SALE: 2 PENN STATE Kerry at 284-5073 and leave go on SALE Tuesday night. ND HOCKEY IS LOOKING FOR TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS. message!!! They will also be available at the AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND NOV. 1OTH. CALL COLLECT CALL 277-9869. door, Saturday night. FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050. (704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. Need One Stud. Ticket for 
Penn St. call MATI x2052 sdgl 
Scoreboard 
page 15

Friday, November 9, 1990 
NBA BOXES  NBA STANDINGS  
KHICKS 114, BULLETS 103  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlelon  Baseball's Highest Salaries  
Wuhlng1on (103) Ha.Gran14-9 0-0 8, King 12·30 6-6 30, Jon"" 3-3 2·3 8, Robinson 2·7 2·2 6, Walker 4-10 2-6 10, Ellison 6-9 0-0 12, Alarie 3-8 1-2 7, English 7·13 1­ Boston New York Philadelphia Miami  w 3 2 2 1  L 0 2 2 2  Pet 1.000 .500 .500 .333  GB 1 112 1112 2  LtO 3-0 2-2 2·2 1·2  Strk Won3 Won1 Lost 2 Lost 2  Home 1·0 1-2 1-1 1·1  Away 2-0 1-0 t-1 0-1  Coni 3-0 2-1 2-1 t-2  Darryl Strawberry has signed a contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers for $4 million dollars, which would puts him at the no. 2 spot on the list.  
1 15, Workman 0-1 0-0 0, Hammonds 0-1 1-2 1, Foster 3-5 0-0 6. Total& 44-96 15-22 102. New York (114)  Washington New Jemey  1 1  2 3  .333 .250  2 2112  t-2 t-3  Lost t Wont  1-0 1-0  0·2 0-3  1-2 1-3  Player, Club  Years  Avg. Salary  
Oakley 6-9 5-6 17, Vandeweghe 7-11 5-5 21, Ewing 13-19 6-8 32, Jackson 4·11 5-8 13, G.WIIklna 4-8 1-1 9, Qulnnett 1·3 0-0 2, Tucl<er 4­ Central Atlanta Detroit  Dlvlelon 3 3  0 1  1.000 .750  t12  3·0 3-1  Won3 Won 1  2-0 20  1-0 1-1  1-0 2-0  Jose Canseco, Athletics  1991-95  $4,700,000  
10 0-0 8, Muataf 2-5 0-0 4, Cheeks 0-1 0-0 0, G.Grant 1-2 0-0 2, E.WIIklna 2-3 2-2 6.Totals 44-62 24-30 114.  Milwaukee Indiana Charlotte Cleveland  3 2 2 2  1 1 2 2  .750 .667 .500 .500  112 1 1 112 1 112  3-t 2·1 2-2 2-2  Won3 Wont Lost 1 Won2  2-0 2-0 1-t 1·0  1-t 0-1 1-1 1·2  2-1 t-1 t-2 1-2  Darryl Strawberry, Dodgers Don Mattingly, Yankees  1991-95 1991-95  $4,000,000 $3,860,000  
Waahlngton Haw York  33 31  31 32  22 26  17-103 26-114  Chicago  1  3  .250  2 112  1·3  Wont  0-2  1-1  0-3  Will Clark, Giants  1990-93  $3,750,000  
3-Polnt goals-Washington 0-2 (King 0-1, Ellison  WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldwee1 Dlvlelon  Kevin Mitchell, Giants  1991-94  $3,750,000  
0-1), New York 2-3 (Vandeweghe 2-2, G.Wiklns 0­1). Fouled out-Oakley. Rebounds-Washington  Dallas  w 3  L 1  Pet .750  GB  ltO 3-1  Strk Won3  Home 1-0  Away 2-1  Coni 1-1  Dave Stewart, Athletics  1991-92  $3,500,000  
49 (Waker 7), New York 54 (Ewing 15), A&Sists­Waahlngton 25 (King 8), New York 27 (Jackson 6). Total foula-Waahlngton 30, New York 25.  San Antonio Utah Houston  2 2 2  1 t 2  .667 .667 .500  112 1/2 1  2-1 2-1 2-2  Lost 1 Won2 Won2  2·0 1-1 2-0  0-1 1-0 0-2  2-1 2-1 2-2  Andre Dawson, Cubs*  1991-92  $3,300,000  
Technlcala-Washlngton Illegal defense. A­11,677.  Minnesota Denver  1 0  3 4  .250 .000  2 3  1·3 0-4  Lost 3 Lost 4  1-1 0-1  0-2 0-3  1-0 0-4  Nolan Ryan, Rangers  1991  $3,300,000  
Orlando  0  4  .000  3  0-4  Lost 4  0-2  0-2  0-1  Mark Davis, Royals  1990-93  $3,250,000  
JAZZ  103, SPURS M  Pacific Divlelon Ponland 3  0  1.000  3-0  Won3  1-0  2-0  3-0  Mark Langston, Al)gels  1990-94  $3,200,000  
San Antonio (94) Greenwood 2·3 2·2 6, Cummings 9-16 7-7 25, Roblnaon 7-17 8-12 22, Protlaey 1·2 1·1 3, Elllott5­15 4-514, Schlntzlua2-7 0-1 4, Green 4·9 2-2 10, Dlnklna 3-8 0-0 6, Wll»ame 1-4 0-0 2, Higgins 1·3  Seattle Phoenix Golden State LA Clippers LA Lakem Sacramento  2 2 2 2 0 0  0 1 2 2 2 3  1.000 .667 .500 .500 .000 .000  1/2 1 1 112 t 112 2t12 3  2-0 2-1 2·2 2-2 0·2 0-3  Won2 Wont Lostt Lost2 Lost 2 Lost3  2-0 1-1 t-0 2·1 0-1 0-2  0-0 1-0 1-2 0-t 0-t 0-t  1-0 2-1 2-2 2-1 0-2 0-2  •1992 club option The top baseball contracts by average annual values. Figures were obtained by the Associated Press from player and management sources and include all guaranteed income but not income from potential incentive bonuses.  
0-0 2. Totals 35-62 24-30 94.  
Utah (103)  Thuraday'e· Gamea  AP/Carl Fox  
K.Malone 5-14 4-12 14, Bailey 9-t4 0-0 t8, Eaton 2·2t·1 5, Stocklon 8-t7 6-6 24, J.Malone 6­t6 7-7 19, Brown 2-3 t-2 5, Rudd 2-3 0-0 4, Munk  New York 114, Washington 103 New Jersey 114, Mlann 103 Milwaukee t41, Philadelphia 111  STATISTICS  TRANSACTIONS  
1-1 0-0 2, Edwards t-5 2-2 4, Griffith 3·6 2·2 8.  Houston 103, Orlando 99  BASEBALL  
Totals 39-81 23·32 t03. San Antonio 26 20 23 25--94 Utah 2t 29 30 23-103 3-Polnt goals-San Antonio 0-t (EIIIon), Utah 2-8 (Stockton 2-6, Rudd 0-t, Griffith 0-1). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-San Antonio 54 (Robinson 10), U!ah 50 (I<. Malone 15). Aulsts-san Antonio 19 (Elliott 7), U!ah 28 (Stocklon 17). Total louie-san Antonio 27, Utah 22. Technlcala-Edwards, San Antonio Illegal defense 2. A-12,616.  Utah 103, San Antonio 94 Frlday'a -Gamee Chicago at Boston, 7:30p.m. Cleveland at Indiana, 8 p.m. Charlotte at Minnesota, 6 p.m. Milwaukee at Washington, 8 p.m. Orlando at Dallas, 8:30p.m. SeaNie at Denver, 9:30p.m. Atlanta at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Sacramento at LA Lakem, 10:30 p.m. Detroit a! Penland, 10:30 p.m.  Career statlsllcs of Darryl Stra\Werry, who agreed to terms wHh the Los Angeles Dodgers on Wednesday night: REGULAR SEASON AB R H HR RBI AIG 1983 NYM 420 63 108 26 74 .257 1984 NYM 522 75 13t 26 97 .25t 1985 NYM 393 78 109 29 79 .277 1986 NYM 475 76 123 27 93 .259 1987 NYM 532 108 151 39 104 .284 1988 NYM 543 101 146 39 101 .269  National League LOS DODGERS-Signed Darryl Strawberry, outfielder, to a five-year contract. FOOTBALL National Footbell League DETROIT LIONS-Claimed Ray Seala, defensive end, on waivers from the Ta~a Bay Buccaneers. Placed Toby Caston, linebacker, on Injured r98erve. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Activated Paul Lanklord, cornerback, from Injured r98erve. Placed Stevon Moore, safety, on Injured reaerve.  
BUCKS 141, SIXERS 11t Philadelphia (111) Barkley 9-11 8-9 27, Mahorn 7-7 3-4 17, Gmlnskl 2-9 7-9 11, DaWkins 1-1 2-2 4, HaWkins 2-8 5-6 9, Green 2-8 3-3 7, Bol 0-0 0-0 0, R.Andenlon 4-8 0-0 9, Oliver 3-8 0-0 6, Williams 3-9 2-6 8, Payne 6-10 0-0 13. Totals 39-79 30-39 111. Milwaukee (141) Brlckowakl 8-9 2-2 t8, Roberlll 4-8 0-0 8, Slkma 2·6 4-4 8, Hu~hrles 10-13 3-3 25, Robenson 6­10 0-0 12, Grayer 5-7 0-0 tO, Pierce 9-t4 7-9 28, G.Anderson 6-10 0-2t2, Schay98 4-7 2·2 10, Lohaua 2· 7 0-0 6, Henson 1-t 2·2 4, Kornet 0-4 0­0 O.Totala 57-96 20-25 141.  Seturdey'e Gamea Philadelphia at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Indiana at M iaml, 7:30 p.m. Boston at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Charlone at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Houston at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Denver at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Atlanta at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. New York at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Golden State \IS. Seattle at il'acoma, 10:30 p.m. Sunday'• Game a Orlando at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Utah at Houstoo, 8:30p.m. LA Clippers at Ponland, 10 p.m. New Yor1< at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. COLLEGE SCHEDULES  1989 NYM 476 69 1990 NYM 542 92 Total• 31103 662 PLAYOFFS AB R 1986 NYM 22 4 1986 NYM 30 5 Totala 52 9 WORLD SERIES t986 NYM 24 4 ALL-STAR GAMES t984 SF 2 0 t985 Mlnn t 2 t986 Hou 2 0 1987 Oak 2 0 1988 Cln 4 0 1989 Calli Did 1990 Chi 3 0  107 29 t59 37 1034 252 H HR 5 2 9 1 14 3 5 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 not play 0 0  77 108 733 RBI 5 6 11 0 0 0 0 0 0  .225 .277 .265 A/G .227 .300 .269 .208 .500 t.OOO .500 .000 .250 .000  HOCKEY National Hockey League LOS ANGELES KINGS-Re·aaslgned Darryl Gilmour, goaltender, from New Haven of the American Hockey League to Phoenix of the International Hockey League. SOCCER Major Soccer League BALTIMORE BLAST-Signed Hank Henry, goalie. Released Vollslav Stanlslc, goalie. SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Signed Michael Collins, forward. National Professional Soccer League MILWAUKEE WAVE-Signed Larry Sunderland, defender; Jon Szczepanski, forward; and Carlos Basso, mldllelder. Exercised the options for Jimmy Banks, defender: George Pastor and An Kramer, forwards. COLLEGE  
To tate  t4  2  4  0  0  .286  MISSOURI-Announced the resignation of Rich  
Philadelphia 30 30 19 32-111 Mllwauk.. 33 36 41 31-141 3-Polnt goala-Phlladelphla 3-5 (A.Anderson 1­1, Payne 1-1, Barkley 1-2, HaWkins 0-1 ), Milwaukee 7-15 (Pieroe 3-6, Hu~hrles 2·2, Lohaua 2-4, Skma 0-1, Komet 0-1). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-Philadelphia 48 (Gmlnskl 9), Milwaukee 45 (G.Anden~on 9). Aaalsta­Phlladelphla 19 (Green 8), Milwaukee 33 (Robenaon 12). Total Joule-Philadelphia 20, Milwaukee 27. Technlcala-Phlladelphla Illegal detenae 2, HaWkins, Mahom 2. Ejecllona­Mahorn. A-13,475.  EAST Air For~ (4-5) at Army (4-4) Connecllcut (4-5) at Boston U. (5-4) Dan mouth (5-2·1) at Brown (1·n Lafayene (4-5) at Colgate (6-3) Cornell (5-3) at Columbia (1·7) Holy Cross (7·1-1) at Fordham (t·n Bucknell (5-4) at Lehigh (6-3) Nonheastern (1-8) at Maine (2-7) Harvard (5-3) at Penn (2-6) Maryland (5-4) at Penn St. (6-2) Te~le (4-4) at Pittsburgh (3-5-t) New Hampshire (6-2-1) at Rhode Island (4-5) West VIrginia (3-5) at Rutgen1 (3-6) Tulane (3-6) at Syracuse (5-2-2)  Ga Southern (6-3) at Tenn.-Chananooga (5·4) Nicholl& St. (3-6) at Troy St. (4-5) ' Appalachian St. (4·5) at VMI (3-6) Indiana St. (3-7) at Western Kentucky (2-6) MIDWEST Western Michigan (5-4) at Bowling Green (3-4-2) Ball St. (5-4) at Eastern Michigan (2·7) Wisconsin (1-7) at Indiana (4-3-t) Ohio St. (5·2·1) at Iowa (7-1) Missouri (3·6) at Iowa St. (3·5-t) Nebraska (8-t) at Kansas (3-5-1) Kent St. ( 1-8) at Miann, Ohio (4·4·1) Illinois (6-2) at Michigan (5·3) Michigan St. (4·3-1) at Minnesota (5-3)  NHL STANDINGS WALES CONFERENCE Patrick DIYialon w L T NY Rangem 12 6 0 Washington 10 7 0 New Jersey 9 6 1 Philadelphia g 8 0 Pittsburgh 8 7 1 NY lslandem 6 10 0  " Pta 24 20 19 18 17 12  Daly and Bob Sundvold, assistant effective March 31, 1991. GF GA Home Away DIY 75 45 9-2-o 3-4-o 4-3-o 56 51 5-2-o 5-5-0 4-4.0 62 54 7-1·1 2·5-0 5-4-o 64 63 5-4-o 4-4.0 2-5-o 72 62 5-4-o 3-3-1 6-3-o 46 67 3-5-0 3·5-0 3-5-o  coaches,  
ROCKETS 103, MAGIC 88 Orlando (99) Catledge 2-6 2-2 6, Scott 10-20 5-6 28, Kite 2-4 0-0 4, Anden~on 7-20 2-3 16, VIncent 3-9 4-5 10, O.Smhh 4-8 o-o 8, Ansley 5-8 3-3 13, Turner 0-4 0­0 0, Skiles 3·1 0 0-0 8, Reynolds 3-6 0-0 6, McNamara 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 39-95 t8-19 99. Houaton (t03) Thorpe 4-t3 8-9 16, Wood 3-6 2-2 9, Olajuwon 7­16 1t-t3 25, Maxwe117-16 1-2 t6, K.Smlth 6-15 4­4 t7, Fehl t-3 0-0 2, Floyd 2-7 4-4 8, Woodson 4· tO 0-0 8, L.Smlth 1·1 0-0 2.Totala 35-87 30-34 103. Orlando t7 31 30 21­99 Houa1on 29 23 25 26-­t03 3-Polnt goals-Orlando 5-13 (Soon 3-9, Skiles 2· 3, Anderson 0-1), Houlton 3-1 0 (Wood 1·1, K.Smith 1·2, Maxwell 1-6, Woodson 0-1). Fouled out-Kite. Rebounds-Orlando 58 (Kite 11 ), Houston 57 (Oiajuwon 19). Aaalats-Orlando 25 (VInoent, Skllotl 7), Houston 19 (K.SmHh 10). Total fouta-Orlando 27, Houston t 5. Technlcala­Houaton coach Chaney. A-12,358. NETS 114, HEAT 103 Miami (103) Aloe 6·13 3-4 15, Davla3-6 6-7 12, Sellulty 4·13 9-1117, Douglaa 8-16 8-10 24, Edwards 6-15 1-2 13, Cotes 0-3 0-4 0, Keasler 4-7 3-9 11, Wagner 2· 3 0-0 5, Thompson 2-2 2·2 6. Totals 35-78 32-49 103. Hew Jereey (114) Morris 5-10 6-8 15, Haley 3-10 2-2 8, Bowie 2·7 0-0 4, Blaylock 9-18 3-4 22, Theus 9-17 6-6 24, Dudley 1-4 4-9 6, Coleman 4-9 5-9 13, Buechler 2· 2 2-2 6, Conner 2-4 2-2 6, Garvin 3·1 0 0-0 6, Lee 0-0 0-0 0, George 2-4 0-0 4.Totals 42-95 29-42 114. Mleml 25 21 27 30-103 New Jereey 30 23 25 36--114 3-Polnt goala-Miaml 1·4 (Wagner 1-1, Edwards  Youngstown St. (9-0) at Towson St. (1·8) Clarion (2·7) at Nonhern Iowa (6-3), Night VIllanova (5·4) at Massachusens (7-0-1) Purdue (1-7) at Northwestern (2·6) Prlnoeton (3-5) at Yale (4-4) Central Michigan (7·2·1) at Ohio U. (1-7-1) Eastern llllnola (5-5) at SW Missouri St. (8-2) SOUTH Navy (3· 5) at Toledo (8-1) LSU (4-4) at Alabama (4-4) Illinois St. (5-5) at Western Illinois (2-7) Miss. Valley St. (5-4) at Alabama St. (6-2-1) Southam MlssiSBippl (7-3) at Auburn (6-1-1) SOUTHWEST Slippery Rock (4-5-t) at C. Florida (6-3), Night SW Louisiana (3-6) at Ar1<ansas St. (3-5-1) Wofford (9-1) at Citadel (6-3) Arkanaas (2·6) at Baylor (4-3-1) Furman (6-3) at Eaat Tennessee St. (2-7), Night Kansas St. (5-4) at Oklahoma (6-3) Nonhem Illinois (6-3) at East Carolina (4-6) Southern Methodist (1·7) at Rice (4·5) Georgia (4-4) at Florida (7-1) North Texas (5-4) at Southwest Texas St. (6-3) Howard U. (6-3) at Florida A&M (5-4), Night Houston (8.0) at Texas (6-1) Cincinnati (1-8) at Florida St. (6-2) Texas Tech (2-nat Texas Christian (5-3) VIrginia Tech (5-4) at Georgia Tech (7-0-1) NW Louisiana (3-6) at Jackson St. (7-2), Night FAR WEST William & Mary (7-2) at James Madison (5-4) Stanford (3-6) at Arizona (6·3) VanderbiK (1-6) at Kentucky (3-5) Nevada (9-0) at Boise St. (7·2) North Carolina A& T (8-1) at Llbeny (6-4) Oregon (7-2) at Callfomla (5-3-1) Akron (3-6-1) at Loulalana Tech (6-3), Night Oklahoma St. (3-6) at Colorado (8-1-1) Boston College (4-4) at Louisville (8-1-1) Tulsa (2-7) at Colorado St. (6-3) Eastern Kentucky (9-0) at Marshall (5-4) Montana St. (3-6) at Eastern Washington (5-4) Sam Houston (3-6) at McNeese St. (4-5), Night Pacific U. (4-5) at Fresno St. (7-1-1), Night Mlaslsslppl St. (3-5) at Memphis St. (4·4-1) Utah St. (3-4-1) at Fullerton St. (1-9) Bethune-Cookman (3·6) at Morris Brown (4·4) Mesa, Colo. (6·2) at Idaho St. (2·7), NightMiddle Tenn91Bee (8-1) at Murray St. (1-8) Northridge St. (7-2) at long Beach St. (4-5)Duke (4-5) at Nonh Carolina St. (5-5) Idaho (6-3) at Montana (6-3)S. 1'. Austin (2-n at NE Louisiana (5-4), Night W-St. (4-5) at Nonhern Arizona (4·5)Virginia (7-1) at Nonh Carolina (5-3-1) U!ah (3-6) at New Mexico (2-8) Delaware (5-4) at Richmond (1-8) San Jose St. (6-2-1) at New Mexico St. (0-9)Grambling St. (6-3) at South Carolina St. (4-4) Southern Cal (6-2-1) at Oregon St. (1-8)Concord (6·3) at Samford (5-3-1) Hawaii (S.3) at San Diego St. (3-4), Night Southern Illinois (2·8) at South Carolina (4-4) UCLA (4-5) at Washington (8·1) Notre Dame (7-1) at Tennessee (5-1-2) Arizona St. (3-5) at Waahlngton St. (3-6)Southam U. (4-4) at Tennessee St. (5-4) Brigham Young (7-1) at Wyoming (9-1)Austin Peay (0·9) at Tennessee Tech (5-4) A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 1. Notre Dame (37) 7-1-0 1,456 2 at •9 Tenn91Bee 2. Washington (13) 8·1·0 t,403 7 UCLA 3. Houston (5) 8-0-0 t,337 6 at •14 Texas 4. Colorado (5) 8-1-1 t,310 9 OKLAHOMA STATE 5. Miami 6-2-o t,228 9 Idle 6. Iowa 7-t-o 1,129 13 OHIO STATE 7. Georgia Tech 7-0-1 1,074 16 VIRGINIA TECH 8. Brigham Young 7-1-0 1,039 10 at •25 Wyoming 9. Tennot~see 5·1·2 980 11 11 NOTRE DAME 10. Florlda 7-1-0 949 15 GEORGIA 11. VIrginia 7-t-0 924 t at Nonh Carolina 12. Florida State 6-2-o 845 12 CINCINNATI t3. Nebraska 8-1-o 8t8 3 at Kansaa  Adame Dlvlelon Boston 9 5 2 20 48 52 Montreal 8 7 2 18 53 52 Buffalo 5 6 4 14 47 47 Hartford 4 6 3 11 34 49 Quebec 3 11 3 g 43 68 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlelon w L T Pte GF GA St. Louis 11 4 1 23 56 42 Chicago 11 6 1 23 58 41 Detroit 7 6 3 17 61 63 Minnesota 4 9 4 12 45 62 Toronto 2 15 1 5 48 89 Smythe Dlvlelon Calgary 12 6 0 24 81 53 Los Angeles 10 4 1 21 66 46 Vancouver 9 7 0 18 53 52 Winnipeg 6 9 1 13 50 51 Edmonton 2 10 2 6 35 44 Wednesday'• Gemee Boston 2, Montreal 0 N.Y. Rangers 6, Buffalo 2 N.Y. Islanders 6, New Jersey 3 Thureday'e Gamea Late Game Not Included Calgary 8, Philadelphia 2 St. Louis 3, Pittsburgh 2 Vancouver 5, Toronto 3 Chicago 5, Edmonton 3 Minnesota 3, Quebec 2 Detroit at Los Angeles, (n) Frlday'e Gemea Vancouver at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. N.Y. Rangers at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Hantord at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Saturday'• Gemea Pmsburgh at Boston, 7:05p.m. Calgary at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Buffalo at Washington, 7:35 p.m. New Jersey at Montreal, 8:05 p.m. Chicago at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Hantord at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. Detroit at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.  5-1-o 5-2-1 2-2-3 3-3-2 1-5-2 Home 4-1·1 8-3-o 7-1-o 3-2-2 2-7-1 7-1-0 6-1-1 5-3-o 4-4-0 2-5-1  4-4·2 3·5-1 3-4·1 1-S.l 2-6-t Away 7-3-o 3-3-1 0-5-3 1-7-2 0-8-o 5-5-0 4-3-0 4-4-0 2-5-1 0-5-1  3·1·1 4-2·1 2-4-3 2-3-2 1-2-3 DIY 4-1-1 4-2-0 3-1-2 0-5-2 2-4-1 5-1-o 3-2-1 2-4.0 5-3-1 0-5-2  ., .,  

0·1, Rice 0·2), New Jersey 1·3 (Blaylock 1·2, 
14. Texas 6-1-o 762 14 •3 HOUSTON 
Sunday'• Gemea

Morris 0-1). Fouled out-Davia, Keaaler, Bowie, 
15. Auburn 6-1·1 650 4 S. MISSISSIPPI 

Quebec at Montreat, 7:05 p.m.
Dudley. Rebounds-Miami 63 (Kot~sler 12), New 
16. Mississippi 8-1-o 600 17 Idle 

Vancouver at Philadelphia, 7:05p.m. 
Jersey 63 (Coleman 10). Assla18-Miaml 18 
17. Illinois 6-2-0 568 5 at 119 Michigan 

Boston at Washington, 7:05p.m. 
(Douglaa 9), New Jersey 22 (Theus 6). Total 
18. Clemson B-2-0 509 18 Idle 

Calgary at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. 
foula-Miaml 33, New Jersey 35. Technlcals­
19. Michigan 5-3·0 438 20 _,7 ILLINOIS 

Winnipeg at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 
Dougtaa, Miami Illegal defense, Bowie. A-12,138. 
20. Oregon 7-2-0 362 22 at California 

_.: 
Friday, November 9, 1990
page 16 The Observer 
Houston meets Texas, big game for both teams 
AUSTIN (AP) -Barred from bowl games because of proba­tion, Houston sees Saturday's game with Texas as its chance to show a national audience why the Cougars should be na­tional champions. 
No. 3 Houston trails top­ranked Notre Dame and No.2 Washington in the Associated Press poll even though it is 8-0 and has the nation's longest major college winning streak of 12 games. 
The run-and-shoot Cougars, with quarterback David Klingler firing touchdown passes and 220-pound running back Chuck Weatherspoon bursting through defensive lines, are averaging nearly 43 points a game. 
Nothing seems to slow the Cougars and, wanting to make a great showing in the ESPN night game, the score could get out of hand for Texas. 
The Longhorns are 6-1 for the season and 4-0 in the Southwest Conference, which makes them a leader in the race for the Cotton Bowl. 
But Texas hasn't come close to stopping the Cougars in recent years, falling 60-40, 66-15 and 47-9. 
Texas coach David McWilliams said the game "has been building for several weeks." 
Mindful of NCAA sanctions against Houston for rules vio-. lations, coach John Jenkins commented, "We said, 'Let's administer the death penalty every Saturday we play."' 
Advised that Jenkins had stated that the run-and-shoot can't be stopped unless it stops itself, McWilliams said, "I think he's got a pretty strong case." 
Weatherspoon, who has run for 379 yards in just two games against Texas. said, "I think the whole team hates Texas. It just builds so much fire within us." 
Texas safety Lance Gunn said, "I never like to say we owe a team anything, but Houston has beaten the dog out of us." 
Texas players, coming off two consecutive losing seasons for the first time in half a century, sport T-shirts with "WIT 1990" written across their chests. "Whatever it takes. We'll do whatever it takes to win," said the Longhorns' other safety, Stanley Richard. 
The Longhorns have pieced together their winning record with a balanced offense di­rected by quarterback Peter Gardere and a defense that has yielded 295 yards and 15 points a game. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off campus students wishing to play Interhall hockey should stop in the NVA office this week and sign the roster. 
Women's field hockey will meet at Main Circle at 8 a.m. to play Chicago on Sunday. Players who are going should call Suzanne at x417 4 or Melissa at 277-7 496 by 5 p.m. on Friday. 
Irish Insanity encourages all members and anyone interested to attend the Notre Dame hockey game this evening in the ACC at 
7:30 p.m. A group meeting will be held during the first intermission. 
Hockey equipment sale is Monday, Nov. 12 from 8-9 p.m. at Gate 3 of the JACC. Gloves, sticks, etc. 239..5227. 
lf-~**• 
Don·l ~el 11 reeked. If lOll re not 
~ * *lf­
sober-or \'Ou·re not ~lilT­
lf-R;. 
let ~Oilll'Olll' else do tile dn1 ing BEER DRINKEHS <>F AMERICA 1'\lll\•.\\1\lil 
w~J!!:~~:···~~~~:~=~~!.•..........· D~mas Is a home:e ~~~~ ••• •. •• i~ ~ 
beautiful hQUse In ahistQiic diStrict sevlilli minutes from Notre came. We wQflt lil grad stodel'lt.Pr CQ!JPietp JiV~.mere in re$i~be.. .f=r~(~m and .····. bp~rd is pri:'!Vidito lrt~tia~e fli!C~~~r1assigned r~pc:inslbilitles. . Slmd letter or resume .to. OiSmas; P:Q. Sox 4571, Sooth Bend, IN 46634. Direct questions to Jitn floemer, Community Relations. Notre Dame (239­
6614). .·.·.·. 


Final four set in women's IH 
By CHAD WISHCHUK hopes of Lyons when they 
stopped a two-point conversion The 1990 Women's Interhall 
Sports Writer 

with less than three minutes to 
Football Playoffs was reduced to the final four last Sunday as the matchups continue to grow in intensity. 
The top four seeds advanced to the semifinals scheduled for November 11. Number-one seeded Breen-Phillips rode the wake of Kristy Alkidas' early touchdown to finish P.E. (2-4) and remain queens of the hill. The other Gold League repre­sentative, Howard (5-1). squeezed by Off-Campus in overtime. P.W escaped from a Lyons (2-4) cage, and Farley (5-1) bade Lewis (3-3) farewell. 
Kathy Hardiek's 40-yard scamper set up B.P.'s first score and the leaders never· looked back in quieting the upset-minded, last-seded P.E. 14-6. 
Number-five Lewis was Farley's sixth consecutive shut­out victim 14-0. 
P.W. stifled any championship go and went on to advance 8-6. 


Howard's Kelly Kolodziej took a pitch on a sweep left in sudden death overtime to send Off-Campus (3-3) off campus for good. This 6-0 win was the first time the overtime format was utilized in this years play­offs. In this format, each squad is given two downs to score from the five-yard line. After Howard converted for a score, their secondary picked off O.C. 's second attempt to seal the win. 
Howard captain Marianne Haggerty summed up her team's performance, "Defense is key." P.W. (5-l)is next in line for Howard. 
These first-round contests set up some interesting scenerios. Unscathed throughout the grinding regular-season schedule, B.P. now faces its most prodigious task thus far in Farley. B.P 
LIFE 
leads the entire women's football league in offense at 13 points per game while Farley's steel wall def~nse surrendered an average of one lonely point in each of their six games. 
P.W. is the only team to cross the goal-line against Farley and even then they couldn't manage the extra point. 
B.P.'s captain Katherine Mapother, after their victory over P. W., seemed more wor­ried about the effect of the cold weather on her team's attack then Farley's defense. 
"The weather slowed every­body today. Hopefully we'll be in Loftus next game," she said. "We've played Farley in the past and they have created a lot of competition, friendly competition that is. We're looking forward to the big game and both teams are fired up." 
The B.P -Farley game will be the first game of a double­header at 12 noon, Sunday at Stepan Field. 

CHOICES 

NOTRE 
DAME 
ON 
TELEVISION 
The University of Notre Dame's award-winning series treats the threatened but enduring institution of marriage, from young people contemplating commitment to older couples reflecting on new stages in their relationship. Watch on local public television, WNIT-TV, Channel34, and_ on Heritage Cablevision's VISN Channel31. 

Marriage: Building aLasting Friendship 
An overview of the stages of the marriage relationship, from choosing a partner through the tensions of family and career to experiencing the "empty nest." 
WNIT-TV, Channei34-November 11, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel 31-November 12, 7:30p.m.; November 13, 2:30p.m.; November 14, 10:30 a.m.; and November 16, 6 a.m. 
Marriage: Choosing aFriend for Life 
How does one go about preparing for a commitment which is essentially open-ended? 
WNIT-TV, Channei34-November 18, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel 31-November 19, 7:30p.m.; November 20, 2:30p.m.; November 21, 10:30 a.m.; and November 23, 6 a.m. 
Marriage: The Early Years 
Dealing with the stresses of job and family and establishing patterns of communication. 
WNIT-TV, Channel 34-November 25, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel 31-November 27, 2:30 p.m. 
Marriage: The Sunset Years 
The "empty nest" and aging often require adjustments in the marriage relationship. 
WNIT-TV, Channel 34-December 2, 11:30 a.m. Heritage Cable Channel 31-December 3, 7:30 p.m.; December 4, 2:30p.m.; December 5, 10:30 a.m.; and December 7, 6 a.m. 
ALL TIMES ARE EASTERN STANDARD TIME. 
--------------------------------~--------------------~~---------~----------------------------,----------­
Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Blackhawks send Edmonton to eighth straight loss 
IAI'l Goaltender Ed Belfour beeame the NIIL's first H>-game winner. as the Chieago Blackhawks extended Edmonton's all-time franchise losing streak to eight games with a 5-3 win over the Oilers. The Oilers, the defending Stanley Cup champions, are 1­1 0-0 in their last 11 games, 0­5-1 on the road and 2-10-2 overall. 
Bel four, I 0-4-0, made 21 saves and Mike Hudson's goal at 9:38 of the final period proved to be the game-winner, giving Chicago a 4-2 lead. 
The vietory, the Blackhawks' sixth in their last nine contests, left Chicago tied with St. Louis for the Norris Division lead. 
Blues 3, Penguins 2 
Michel Mongeau and Gino Cavallini scored power-play goals in the first live minutes of the third period to lead the hot St. Louis Blues to a 3-2 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Thursday night. 
The Blues are 9-1-1 in their last 11 games and ended the Penguins' season-best winning streak at four games. St. Louis leads the NHL in road wins with a 7-3-0 road record. 
With the Blues trailing 2-1, Mongeau knocked in Paul 

night, Balfour became the first ten-game winner in the NHL. 
Cavallini's pass at 1:51 to tie the game. Gino Cavallini then deflected Jeff Brown's shot from the right point past Tom Barrasso at 4:41 for his third goal and the Blues' first lead. 
It was the first time this season the Penguins have allowed more than one power-play goal at home. 
Flames 8, Flyers 2 
Sergei Makarov and Joe Nieuwendyk each had a goal and three assists and the Calgary Flames scored five goals in the third period to beat the Philadelphia Flyers 8-2. 
Both Stephane Matteau and Gary Roberts had one goal and one assist for the Flames. 
Matteau backhanded a rebound past Pete Peeters for a 4-1 lead just 11 seconds into the final period. 
After Philadelphia's Tim Kerr tapped in a power-play goal at 
Seniors ofAll Majors Are Invited to a Presentation on 
Opportunities in Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 University Club 6:00P.M. 
Representatives ofMorgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Analyst Program 


Refreshments Provided 
Contact the University ofNotre Dame Career and Placement Services Center for additional information 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
Incorporated 

1:16, Joel Otto and Nieuwendyk scored goals less than two minutes apart for a 6-2 advan­tage. Gary Suter and Al Macinnis both scored on power plays to close the game. 
Canucks 5, Maple Leafs 3 
Power-play goals by Trevor Linden and Brian Bradley keyed a four-goal Vancouver splurge in the second period as the Canucks skated to a 5-3 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs, who went down to their fifth consecutive defeat. 
Adrien Plavsic, Steve Bozek and Gary Valk also scored for the Canucks, 9-7-0 and third in the Smythe Division. 
Dave Reid had two short­handed goals and Vince Damphousse also scored for the Leafs, 2-15-1, last in the Norris and last overall. 
North Stars 3, Nordiques 2 
Gaeten Duchesne and Shane Churla scored second-period goals, lifting the Minnesota North Stars to a 3-2 victory over Quebec, the Nordiques' eighth straight loss. 
After allowing Everett Sanipass' goal on the Nordiques' first shot, Jon Casey made 24 saves before yielding Aaron Broten's goal with one second left in the game. He has given up only four goals in helping Minnesota go 2-0-1 in its last three games, including a 2-0 victory at Quebec. 
Last year, the Nordiques were 12-61-7, by far the NHL's worst record. They got off to a 3-3-3 start this season under new general manager Pierre Page and coach Dave Chambers before beginning their losing streak Oct. 21. The Nordiques have been outscored 33-11 during their slide. 

~ 

~ ~ 
ftsportsportsportsportsportsA 
~ II ~ ~ soccer, tennis, racket stringing, IIhockey, lacrosse, swimming, and more! ~ 
~1 0OYc ~
off with student I.D. on 
~ O all footwear,· clothing, and ~ ~ equipment ~ I o<~ ~ ~ ~ ~o ~C:J o~ o o*"C:J f<-~a 0u~~ 
~ ~,~ ~~ ~<c 5:)~ ..~g o<!-~a Y:-«J fv.;s ~ 
~ ~ <Q ~ ~ ~, v <c C:j ~ ~ ~ ~ 11627 Edison Road-next To Tracks~ 
1 273-9ooo 1 
L...................................................................................................................... 
,­
I page 18 The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990
I 
I 
I 
I Ewing's monster game leads Knicks to 114-103 win 
l 
I 
I 
.. 
Bucks, Rockets, Nets, and Jazz are also victorious 
most of the game without Coleman and Tate George
(AP) -Patrick Ewing had 32 starting guard Johnny Dawkins, sparked a 9-3 run at the start of points, 15 rebounds and seven who injured his right knee in the fourth quarter, carrying
blocked shots, and the New 
the first quarter. The New Jersey over Miami for its York Knicks held the preliminary diagnosis was a first victory.
Washington Bullets to 33 
torn anterior cruciate ligament.
percent shooting in the fourth Without Dawkins, the 76ers The Nets (1-3), who led from 
quarter of a 114-103 victory 
stayed close for one half, trail­the middle of the opening pe­Thursday night. 
ing 69-60 behind the play of riod, managed to take control in The Knicks, who lost two of Charles Barkley, who finished the final 12 minutes of their 
their first three games after 
with 27 points. But Humphries home opener. Coleman, the topleading by at least 16 points in scored 13 of his 25 points and pick in the draft, hit one of two 
all of them, had no margin 
Brickowski 12 of his 18 in the free throws to put New Jerseylarger than four until the fourth 
third quarter as Milwaukee ahead 79-73 and Derrick 
quarter, when Ewing started an outscored Philadelphia 41-19 to Gervin followed with a baseline 8-2 run with six points as New 
open a 110-79 lead entering the jumper.
York took a 96-88 lead with final period. George, the 22nd pick overall,8:22left. 
The 76ers had to play the final then sandwiched two layups ­quarter without Rick Mahorn, for all his points -around a The Bullets got as close as three 
ejected after picking up two basket by Coleman and New 
points later in the quarter, but a technical fouls with 4:24 re­Jersey led 87-76 with 9:28 re­
3-point goal and two free 
maining in the third. maining.
throws by Kiki Vandeweghe, Reggie Theus led New Jersey
who scored 21 points, rebuilt 
Rockets 103, Magic 99 with 24 points and Mookie 
the margin to 105-97 with 2:27 Blaylock added 22. Coleman
Akeem Olajuwon, staying out
remaining. 
finished with 13 points and 10
of foul trouble, had 25 points
The game had 11 lead 
rebounds. Sherman Douglas led
and 19 rebounds as Houston
changes and 16 ties in the first 
Miami with 24 points. Rony
beat winless Orlando.
three quarters, but the Bullets' Seikaly added 17 points and 11
Olajuwon, who had fouled out
7-for-21 shooting in the final rebounds and Glen Rice had 15
of two of Houston's previous
period enabled the Knicks to 
three games, scored 13 of his points.
win their first home game in 
points in the final period when
three tries. Bernard King 
the Rockets were holding off 
Jazz 103, Spurs 94
scored 30 points and A.J. 
the Magic (0-4).
English 15 for Washington. 
Karl Malone, held to five
Olajuwon finished with three
Charles Oakley had 17 points points through the first 3 1/2fouls.
and 13 rebounds for New York. 
quarters, scored nine of his 14
Kenny Smith added 17 points in the final 5:34, leading the
and Otis Thorpe and Vernon
Bucks 141, 76ers 111 
Utah Jazz to a 103-94 victory
Mawell 16 apiece for the
Ricky Pierce scored 28 points 
Thursday night over the San and Jay Humphries and Frank 
Rockets. Dennis Scott had 28 
Antinio Spurs.
points for the Magic and Nick
Brickowski sparked a third­The loss was the 13th straightAnderson added 16. 
quarter spurt as Milwaukee 
for the Spurs at Utah. San routed Philadelphia. 
Antonio last won at the Salt
Nets 114, Heat 103
The 76ers were forced to play Palace on Feb 3, 1986.
First-round draft picks Derrick 


with 24 points, followed by Jeff Malone with 19 -17 in the second half-and Thurl Bailey with 18. 
Terry Cummings led San Antonio with 25 points, fol­lowed by David Robinson with 22 and Sean Elliott with 14. 
Utah, which led 80-69 at the start of the fourth quarter, had Antonio surge. 
After the Spurs pulled to 83­82 with 6:40 to play, Karl Malone scored four of the next six Utah points for an 89-84 lead. Two minutes later, he scored six of eight Utah points as the Jazz moved to a 97-90 
lead with 1:32 remaining. 

H PS 
continued from p. 24 
The game will give fans an opportunity to see some of the new additions to the team. Aside from Carl Cozen, who made a brief appearance, none of the new Irish players played against Athletes in Action. Freshmen Brooks Boyer, Jon Ross and Joe Ross will get a chance to showcase their skills, as will walk-on Matt Adamson. 
One might think that after a couple of weeks of practice the Irish might be a little tired of playing against each other. 
Tower says t at is somewhat true. 
"This year has been different because we are playing in the preseason NIT this year. The games start earlier this year. But still, you do start to fall into a rut at times. You know everybody's moves and you get lazy on defense because you know what plays the offense is running. This is the time of year when you are ready for fresh meat. You are ready to step out, take a challenge, and play some other teams." 
This will also be the first op­portunity for fans to see the women's team this year. The 
4t············································4t 4t GERMANY AND EUROPE: 4t 
4t
: ONE YEAR AFTER 
4t
4t Tl ~ FALL OF THE BERLIN WAIL 
4t 
4t 4t
4tA PANEL PRESENTATION AND DISCUSSION 4t 
4t 4t 
TIME
4t 4t
Friday, November 9
4t 4t 
3:30-5:00
4t 4t 4t 4t 
LOCATION
4t 4t 
Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall
4t 4t 
Saint Mary's College
4t 4t 4t 4t 4t PANELISTS 4t 
4t 4t
Dr. Jurgen Brauer, Economics, SMC4t Dr. Donald Kommers, Government, ND 4t 4t Dr. Robert La.drech, Political Science, SMC 4t 4t Dr. J. Robert Wegs, History, ND 4t 
• •• 4t
* REFRESHMENTS * 
4t SPONSORED BY 4t 4t 4t 4t The Office of the Associate Dean, SMC 4t The SMC Political Science Club
4t 4t •············································4t 
women, who did not receive an NCAA Tournament bid despite going 23-6 last season, have their sights set on the tourna­ment this year. 
Tickets for Sunday's contests will be $2 for adults and $1 for children 16-and-under. Proceeds will benefit Logan's Center and the Neighborhood Study Program. 

Week-end Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday November 10 5:00p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Sunday, November 11 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Michael Himes 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Danial Jenky, C.S.C. 


Friday, November 9, 1990 
The Observer page 19 

Tenn., on November 17. Realistically, the Irish are not up to that level yet, but they must be considered a serious 
factor by the other squads. 
"To be honest, I'm more proud of the girl's team than I am of the boy's team. Every 
I u~~~~ C VICTS ~~a~ I 
* Dl * 
week they've showed constant
* * 
* * improvement." said Piane. * *
* * MEN
* *• continued from p.24
* * 
The Irish failed to qualify last
* *
* * year, despite rising as high as
* * ninth in national polls earlier in the season. The team is opti­mistic about their chances this
i* T-cflf!RT~ lflfTt & ttvEATcflfiRTt i* 
year, however, and will hope­fully retain the valuable self­
* * 
confidence gained in their stun­
* * 
: Available at: : ning sweep of the top seven places at their most recent
*: University Pizza (Free Delivery) 277-8889 *: 
meet, the MCC Championships.
* 18055 State Rd.23 C'-41i * Irish runner Ryan Cahill ex­!" ...,t&.t\O~ S Coach's 277-7678 coAA"'f.t;'t.J,... !" pressed his teams' optimism 
~ 'lj\c\0' , ol~,. .......f(' "~ ~ 
earlier in the season, saying,
* tdl~ 1'-'"' 2046 South Bend Ave. o 1's ~9 * 
"We have the talent to make it
: t~"'J~. Traks 277-8338 l!toiJe~" <o ~o : to the NCAA championships, and, once we're there, to
: r"~~\t't~ 1631 Edison Rd. P~ 'laa0 : 
perform well."
: "'\J1' Sir Richard's Hair Styling 277-0734 I)~ 0./'.Ji : Jt-\\ 417 Dixie Way N. ~ Jt-r-=:----::------=--~ : Active Tan 272-9780 'I : ()!~~AI~ JUfSD!'f : Georgetown Shopping Center : ~CMJ~ct>~ecnlrrowt~t~-..:lleo...a.acd!ec:r! 
* *
* *
i TO ORDER CALL i 
i (219) 633 -5349 (24 hrs) i 
: Visa, Mastercard & C.O.D. : 
i* PAROLE DENIED! i* 
Jt-e 1990 Game Day Promotions. All Rights Reserved.Game Day Promotionsand PBM, INC are members of the Knock-off Coalition. Jt­
* * 
: Power Base Management, Inc., 2424 Bow Court • Buildin9 8 • South Bend, IN 46628 (219)282-9344 : 
**************************************************************************** 
Marinovich tries to shake robo-QB image 
31-0 loss at Washington. There freshman season, and all that "A lot of things you just can't
LOS ANGELES -Is he really 
was a 174-yard outing, with junk happens. The roboquar-have anything to do with," he 
a Robo QB, programmed for 
three interceptions, in a 35-26 terback stuff is written and ev-said. "I just try to play the 
success and an early departure 
defeat by Arizona. erybody follows that. games. What happens around
from Southern Cal? Or is Todd 
The questions that arose after "His numbers this year are me isn't important."
Marinovich just a kid having 
his performance against actually about the same as last And, despite being in the spot-
fun? 
Syracuse -How soon would he year." light ever since he was a prep
Maybe it's a little of both. 
turn pro? -have quieted. Now Marinovich completed 219 of star, Marinovich said he has
After all, father Marv -a 
'there's even some question of 352 passes for 2,578 yards, learned not to be too self-criti-
Southern Cal and NFL player 
whether he will be the Trojan with 16 touchdowns and 13 in-cal. When he makes a mistake,
himself in the '60s -pretty 
starter every weekend. terceptions last year. In eight he says, "I replay what hap-
much programmed him to be a 
Suspended from Southern games this season for the 6-2-1 pened once then it's out. I've 
passer from childhood with a 
Cal's Oct. 27 game against Trojans, he has completed 133 sometimes found myself think-
regimen of special training and 
Arizona State for cutting of 220 for 1,738 yards, with 10 ing more about the ones I
special diets. 
classes, Marinovich was told by touchdowns and eight intercep-missed than the ones that were
That background plus 
coach Larry Smith that he must tions. good. I've tried to switch that
Marinovich's sensational 
compete weekly with senior Although Marinovich has had around and think more about
freshman season created 
Shane Foley for the starting rocky moments, including the the good things, reinforcing
unusually high expectations for 
job. academic troubles, he seems good thoughts."
him this year. 
Foley filled in against Arizona able to place things in perspec-Asked his reaction to the
His first game as a sopho­
State, a 13-6 victory, then tive. "roboquarterback" image, he 
more, a 25-of-35, 337-yard 
started against Cal before , replied: "I don't put much
outing in a nationally televised 
Marinovich took over on the "The seaGon we had last year thought into it. People are go­
34-16 victory over Syracuse, 
second Southern Cal series and {9-2-1) was a great one, we ing to think whatever they want
added to his growing reputa­
went the rest of the way in a won the Rose Bowl and every-to. I think the biggest thing is
tion. 
31-31 tie last Saturday. thing," he said. "Most people sometimes things are written
Although he has since had an­
Though Smith disciplined think we should do it again. about me by people who don't
other 300-yard, three-touch­
Marinovich, he is quick to de-That's made it a lot harder." know what's going on with me,
down passing day, in a 37-22 
fend him. And he bristles at the But, he said, "I'm a lot further maybe have not even talked
win over Stanford, all his 
term "roboquarterback." along as a quarterback than I with me, at least not long
Saturdays haven't been so 
"I think it's unfair," the coach was last year; I'm improving." enough to know what I'm all
spectacular. 
said. "The media made him He says he handles all the me-about.

There was an 80-yard passing 
something he wasn't. He had dia attention by mostly ignoring "I can't go around and try to
day, with two interceptions, in a 
one good year, a very fine it. explain myself to everyone." 
*************************************************************************** 
* ~VICTORY EDITION: i* 
* * 
* * 
.~ * * CATHOLICS * * ~ i ~~Q; •~ vs. :~4~ i 
TENNIS 
continued from p.24 
tiona! indoor championships in February. 
"I've been having some good practices in the last few days," said Rosas, who lost in the first round of the Rolex Regionals last year at Indiana University. "But with the qualifying posi­tions at stake, everyone will be playing his best level, so we have to expect a lot of close matches early." 
Because of the Irish depth, the team sent six representa­tives to the tournament, which is comprised essentially of the top 96 collegiate players in Indiana, Michigan, Iowa. Ohio, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. 
The top-seeded doubles com­bination of DiLucia-Coleman will be the odds-on favorite to win, but head coach Bob Bayliss has another weapon to show his opponents. 
"Paul Anthony and Ryan Wenger have been playing well and have the chance for a good showing this weekend," said Bayliss. 
Although his team has been performing to his satisfaction, Bayliss has been forced tQ deal with nagging injuries on the team, as well with at least one player having mononucleosis at any given time. 
"Most of the guys are playing well, but we've had to replace some people in the lineup be­cause of sicknesses," said Bayliss. "Both Mark Schmidt and Ryan Lee would have played in the tournament, but Mark has mono and Ryan has had the flu all week." 
Despite these uncontrollable mishaps, Bayliss is looking forward to presenting one of the finest tournaments in the region. 
WOMEN 
continued from p.24 
page 20 The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990 
Men's IH semi-finals to take place on Sunday 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The semifinals of men's in­terhall football playoffs will take place Sunday as defending champion Alumni meets Rockne League champion Sorin (4-0), while Off-Campus gets its rematch with Parseghian titlist Grace (4-0). 
ALUMNI vs. SORIN 
The Alumni offense was in full gear against Stanford in the first round, scoring 26 points against the Studs, well above its 15.5 average in the regular season. Clearly, stopping the Dogs' passing attack will be key to Sorin's chances for victory. 
"Jim Passinault was passing real well last week," said Sorin coach Kevin Kramer. "He was able to drop back and fmd the open receiver. I think we'll be able to shut it down, however. It's going to take an aggressive defense." 
The Otters have the capability to a-pply pressure on the Alumni offense. Sorin has an impressive array of linebackers, led by Joel Williams, and an excellent secondary, including corner­back Tim O'Shaughnessy and safety Sean Kelly. 
On offense, Sorin has aver­aged 15.3 points per game this year. Vic Lombardi lines up at both split end and running back, and has been effective at both positions. O'Shaughnessy provides a big target for quar­terback Kramer's passes, and the offensive line, anchored by 
For Off-Campus to move on in the playoffs, it must score early to eliminate the aura the Grace defense possesses. The Crime has the weapons to move the ball against Grace, but it must show the ability to capitalize on its opportunities. It must also avoid the mistakes it made in the first game on special teams. 
For Grace, the key is to get offensive support for its de­fense. In the first game, Grace was unable to sustain a long drive, but the defense was able to rise to the challenge and stop Off-Campus from scoring. Grace may not be so lucky this time, and the offense must score points in order to relieve the defense of some pressure. 
HOCKEY 
continued from p. 24 
son with torn ligaments in his left knee) have left them short on experience. 
In the wake of these injuries, the sophomore class which was so promising as freshmen last year has come to life. Seven of Notre Dame's 12 goals last weekend were scored by sophomores. It is things like this which encourage the Irish players. 
"I think we're starting to come along as a team," Zadra says. "We are coming together quite well right now." 
center AI Kozar and tackle Dan Ward, opens big holes for Lombardi, Williams, and full­back Sean Ryan. 
According to Kramer, the key to the game will be time of pos­session. While he does not ex­pect to shut down completely the Dog offense, he hopes to control the ball and not allow Alumni too many opportunities. 
Alumni coach Paul Szyperski generally was pleased with his team's performance against Stanford. However, there are some areas in which the Dogs need to improve. 
"Offensively, we'll be able to establish a running game. I'd like to be able to work the run and the pass together more," said Szyperski. "On defense, five men up front worked well for us. Hopefully, we can main­tain a good solid defensive ef­fort." 
For Sorin to win, it must take a few chances on defense. Look for the Otters to blitz frequently in an attempt to put pressure on Passinault, and hope that their secondary can handle Pete Parten and John Carretta, Alumni's fine pair of receivers, man-to-man. On offense, Lombardi and O'Shaughnessy will be key players. Their big­play capability must be utilized against a tough Dog defense. 
Alumni must establish a run­ning attack against a tough Sorin run defense in order to relieve pressure on Passinault. 
The Dogs may try a few draw plays and screen passes to keep the Otter defense honest. 
OFF-CAMPUS vs. GRACE 
The first meeting between the two teams September 30 was a defensive standstill. Grace won 6-0 on a blocked punt by Steve Homan which he recovered in the end zone. Both coaches believe this game could turn on a similar break. 
"I think a missed assignment, a blown coverage, will probably win this game," said Grace coach Chris Sullivan. "I don't expect either team to blow the other out. I expect it'll be a stalemate, and whoever gets a break is going to win." 
Off-Campus was able to drive effectively on Grace in the first game. Coach Tom Helms be­lieves that if the Crime can eliminate the errors which plagued the offense the first game, Off-Campus has the ca­pability to win. 
"The key for us will be executing and not making mistakes like last time," said Helms. "We didn't move the ball that bad against them, but the penalties hurt us. We also have to contain their offense like we did last time." 
Special teams may play an important role in this game. Grace punter Bob Sweeney consistently pinned the Crime back deep in their own territory in the first game, and Off-Campus' mishandling of punts was a factor. 

"We have to field punts a lit­tle bit better than last time," said Helms. "We misplayed one punt into an 82-yarder, and that hurt us." 
Both teams have excellent placekickers, which could have an impact in a close game. Sweeney has hit 50-yard field goals in practice, and Crime kicker Bob Topel nailed a 30­yarder last week against Fisher. 
Grace's defense has not been scored upon this year. It is an­chored by a line featuring Homan, Keith McKean, and Tom Thomas, and an outstand­ing secondary led by safety Steve Rhodes. Not giving up any points has been a source of pride for Coach Sullivan. 
"I feel rather fortunate to have shut out every team," said Sullivan. "To not let anyone score on you is rather amazing. It's not something you think about, but it's something you're fortuna-te to be a part of." 
On offense, Grace goes with a split-back offense led by quar­terback Jim Kossler. Averaging 
13.3 points per contest, Grace has a wide array of options from which to choose. Running backs Joe Minadeo and Tim Slentz are hard runners, and Jeff Burns and Mike Kamradt are sure-handed receivers. Thomas, Homan, and McKean team with Jeff Abbot and Jamie Ruiz to form an excellent line. 
You are invited to an Autobiography Party 

I 
I 

the Notre Da01e Bookstore 
Tuesday · Nov. I3th from z:oo to 3:30 Second Floor Book Departn~ent 
page 21

Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer 
Strawberry signs for $20.25 mil. with the Dodgers 
LOS ANGELHS (AI') -Darryl Strawlwrry sigtwd a fivn-ynar, $20.25 million contract with the Los t\ngPlns DodgPrs on Thursday, saying th1~ Nnw York MPts "just lnt Ill!' walk away." Tlw M1~ts say they will b1~ bettPr without him. 
t\t 2H. tlw snwn-timr. t\11-Star goPs honw to Los t\ngelns and joins tlw Dodgms at tlw prinw of his l'arnPr, following a season in which lw hit :u honwrs and drovn in a tPam-rPI'ord IOH runs. But that and his popular­ity with NPw York fans weren't Pnough to kePp him tlwrP. 
"Tiwy nPVI'f' madP any offer Jikl' liH•y W!'l'n intPf'I'SlPd in me. It was a choii:P thP Mets had to makP and it shows Ill!' it wasn't in tlwir intPrnst. I can't under­stand it. Tlwy just lnt 1111' walk away," Strawlwrry said. 
"I don't think tlw Nnw York MPts apprec.iatPd Darryl Strawlwrry for tlw last seven years," lw said during a news confPI'IHlCI~ at Dodger Stadium. "Tlwy kind of )pft thn door opnn for me to IPave." 
MPts gPtwral nmnager Frank Caslwn dismiss1~d Strawbnrry's loss, vowing thl' tPam would rPhuild thPir outfield and bn PVI'n strongPr in a fpw years. 
"I don't say that you can re­place that kind of talent owrnight, but I think that we havn Pnough rnsources to win without Darryl," lw said, "and I think wn haw a chance to even lw a bPtter tnam and or­ganization within a couple of ynars than if wn wnre with hi Ill." 
Strawlwrry said h1~ was glad to lw going back to the place 
whern hn was born, raised and 
lives in the offseason. "It's so 
niee to be home." 
Maybe playing in Los Angeles will be better for Strawberry than being a visitor. In eight years with the Mets, Strawberry hit just .255 with five home runs and 21 HBis at Dodger Stadium. 
Besides, Strawberry will get an early ehanee to sen his formnr club. Tim Mots begin the nxhibition snason with three games against tlw Dodgers, and tiH• two tnams mnet in May for t.lw first tim!' in the regular snason. 
Strawbnrry's dnf1~ction brought immndiate reaction in New York. At tlw Mets' main souvenir store in Manhattan, Strawberry shirts were selling even faster than usual. Local radio talk shows were jammed with calls, most fans saying the Mets made a mistake to let their star get away. 
And the "Late Night With David Letterman" show even jumped on the story with its "Top Ten Heasons Darryl Strawberry is Leaving New York." Among them: "Will get to sleep three hours later every day" and "Tired of using graf­fiti-covered bats." 
Strawberry had few kind words for the Mets, who he said offered $15 million over four years; the team said it ofTered $15.5 million for four seasons. 
"The Mets ealled three to four days ago and said 'this is the best offer,'" said Strawberry, who made $1.8 million this sea­son. "Things just didn't work 
out with the front office. I didn't 
feel like there was a re­
lationship there." 
Mets vice president N llarazin said the dub was determined not to offer a contract for more than four seasons. "We feel five-year contracts are something we are not inclined to go with," he said. 
"t\nd, when you hear someone say, 'Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Los Angeles' so many times, you feel you're swimming up­str<lam." 
Before the season, Cashen told Strawberry it was time to prove he was worth so much money. But after Strawberry posted the biggest numbers of his career, the Mets did not present the big financial numbers he sought. 
"At the time that we signed him (in 1980), and after watch­ing him for a year, he had more potential than any ballplayer I ever saw. I don't think that he's ever reached his potential," Cashen said. 
Said Strawberry: "Ir 37 home runs and 108 HBis isn't playing up to your potential, I don't know what is." 
"They really don't have to worry about that anymore,'' he said. 'They're going to have to live with that and go out and sign themselves a Superman." 
Strawberry and the Mets talked during the summer about a deal, but broke it off. Strawberry wanted $21 million for four years and the Mets of­fered $9 million for three sea­sons. 
Asked which team he would've signed with if the 


AP PhoiD What's Dodger manager Tommy lasorda excited about? The signing of Darryl Strawberry, an All-Star going home to play in los Angeles. 
Mets and Dodgers made year, $23.5 million deal that 
identical offers, Strawberry made him the highest-paid 
said: "The one I'm now with." player in baseball history. 
Strawberry sought to receive a Strawberry did not mateh that, 
contract similar to Jose but came dose enough to rank 
Canseco, who signed a five-No.2 on the salary chart. 

-----~ 
page 22 The Observer Friday, November 9, 1990 
Missouri put on probation for recruiting violations 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­Missouri became the second school in as many days to be banned from this season's NCAA basketball tournament when it was placed on two years' probation Thursday for recruiting violations. 
On Wednesday, Illinois was prohibited from postseason play and placed on three years' probation. Like Missouri, the school's scholarship allotment was also reduced as part of the penalty. 
Shortly after the decision was announced, two Missouri assis­tant coaches resigned, effective at the end of the season. 
The NCAA Committee on Infractions said coach Norm <:tewart's program "operated ' ver time without direct ac­countable control by the uni­versity." 
It also said Stewart, the Tigers' coach the past 23 years and dean of Big Eight coaches, "delegated many of his respon­sibilities to his assistants, and neither the assistants nor the head coach maintained records, checks and balances or identi­fiable processes for institutional control, which could have been used to reconstruct their actions." 
The NCAA said the laxity led to violations that included use of an improper recruiting agent in Detroit, scholarship payments to an ineligible player and small cash payments to other players. 
The 55-year-old Stewart was red-eyed and emotional in de­fending his program at a news conference. 
"In hindsight, we can always do better," he said. "When you have a ballclub that wins by 20 points, you always want to win by 22. At the same time, I feel comfortable." 
Missouri chancellor Haskell Monroe Jr. said assistant coaches Rich Daly and Bob Sundvold would be allowed to keep their jobs until the end of the season because "we've had enough disruptions in the pro­gram." 
However, he also said school officials were "confident that we have the right coach in place." 
In addition to the probation and postseason ban, Missouri, one of three Big Eight teams to be ranked No. 1 last season, was prevented from paying for visits by recruits this year and will be limited to one basketball scholarship this year and two the next. 
Big Eight commissioner Carl James said Missouri will still play in the conference tourna­ment at the end of the regular season. However, if Missouri should win the tournament, the conference would forfeit its au­tomatic invitation to the NCAA tournament. 
Players and fans react to news 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) Reactions from players and fans of Missouri to NCAA sanctions Thursday ranged from relief to reprimand. 
"It's been going on a long time," said Tigers forward Jeff Warren. "It's long overdue, getting this over with, getting everything out in the open." 
Warren, who had learned of the penalties just minutes be­fore, was closemouthed about how he felt about the fairness of the punishment. 
"I don't really want to com­ment on that. Whatever hap­pened, happened," he said. 
Missouri was put on two years of probation and given recruit­ing and scholarship restrictions. Assistant coaches Rich Daly and Bob Sundvold resigned. 
"I don't think that's really a question I can answer, whether fair or unfair," said Doug Smith, the senior center who was Big Eight player of the year last year. "I just have to leave it up to them." 
Both Warren and Smith said they were saddened by the res­ignations of the men who re­cruited them. 
"I think there's a lot of feeling 
Women's tennis travels to Wise. for tournament 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
Six members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team will travel north to Madison, Wis., for the Rolex Regional Championships. The tourna­ment will run from Friday to Monday and will feature the top players from several Midwestern states. 
In singles competition, juniors Tracy Barton and Katie Clark, sophomore Melissa Harris, and freshmen Christy Faustmann, Terri Vitale, and Lisa Tholen all will represent the Irish. 
Barton is expected to be one of the top three seeds at the tournament and Coach Jay Louderback is confident that she is up to the challenge. 
"Tracy likes to play indoors and I think she's due for a good tournament. Also, Indiana's Deb Edelman will not be com­peting and she's the top player in the region. That really opens it up for anyone in sin­gles and doubles," said Louderback. 
Playing doubles for the Irish will be the team of Barton and Faustmann and the team of Vitale and Tholen. The Notre Dame women are expected to turn in strong performances and Louderback hopes to have Irish representatives at the National Indoor Championships in Minneapolis in February. 
Going to the ·Tennessee Game? 
At halftime there will be a collection to go to the troops in Saudi Arabia. Any amount of money you can donate will be greatly appreciated. 
for Coach Daly and Coach Sundvold," Warren said. "Everybody in there (the locker room) came here because of them, because of their efforts." 
Jon Sundvold, Bob's younger brother and a member of four straight consecutive Big Eight champions under coach Norm Stewart, was not surprised at his brother's resignation. 
"For some 20 months, the university has not backed any of its coaches," said Jon Sundvold, who plays for the Miami Heat. "It would be tough to work for somebody who gives 



APPhotl 
The Missouri men's basketball team was placed on probation yesterday for recruiting violations. 
you no support when in fact, tournament," Smith said. from an individual standpoint, "Everybody would like to get a you have done a whole lot chance to play in the NCAA wrong." tournament, but we can't go to 
Smith, who elected to stay at the tournament. So what? I Missouri rather than turn p~;o­stayed at the University of fessional after his junior year, Missouri to better myself as a took the tournament ban in student and a basketball player. stride. Sanctions or not, I don't regret 
"I wasn't concerned about the anything." 
"We're choppin' broccoli" 
watch for details 

WmAFree MacintoshSF/30 
Find out how you can win over $3,000 worth ofcomputer equipment FREE. Look for complete contest information in the upcoming Apple newsletter. Or look in next Monday's edition ofthe Observerfor information on how to win aFREE computer. 


AppleComputer,Inc
Thank you...Qo Irish! 

MADMAQ;, Nare Dam: -Michiana U~Grrup 


r---~------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 9, 1990 The Observer page 23 
.. 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD Friday,Nov.9 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Mystery Train." Annenberg ACROSS 24 A computer 54 Remove, with language 11 0ft"
Auditorium, Snitc Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame 
1 City in a Calif. 
26 B'ar-killer 55 Athlete Thorpe 

Communication & Theatre. wine region 
Boone 56 Never, in Bonn
7 Turkish 
27 Let go 58 Three-time
mountain Burmese Prime 
'"ECTURE CIRCUIT 
13 Yellowish 29 Down Minister

Friday, Nov. 9 brown 
30 Lawn game 
59 Upgrade14 Where Padang 
31 Bacon pieces 
61 Attacking force 

12:15-1 p.m. "Are Women More Peaceful than Men?" is 
33 Gave in 
63 Final factor 

Kathleen Maas Weigert, Friday Forum in Room 124 of 16 Latin 
American's 35 Cuddles 64 Ship's route

the Centnr for Social Concerns. 
public garden 37 Sub's nemesis 65 Some are bum 17 "The Music inW.W.II 66 Trustworthy

4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Characterization 
Man" star 41 Clandestine

Of The Unit Ball And Circular Domains In C," Prof. So­
10 Fink or stoolie 46 Neighborhoods

Chin, State University of Now York at Albany. Hoom 226, DOWN
19 Flange 47 Finis

Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Department of 
20 Chinese 
49 Subject 1 Historic island 

Mathematics. dynasty 
Wof Athens
50 Roster

4 p.m. L!Jcture, "Why It Is Difficult for Groups to Make 21 Tuzla, e.g. 2 Douglas and 22Xiamen's 
51 Letter opener 

Choices," Maynard Thompson of Indiana University. In Bryan
former name 53 Ugandan exile 

the lecture hall of the science building at Saint Mary's Col­3 Hanoi's locale, lngn. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Math Club. toaG.I. 4 Seven-week 
3:30-5 p.m. Panel Discussion of "Germany and Europe: 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE period in 

One Year Aft1~r the Fall of the Berlin Wall." By Dr. Jurgen 
Judaism

Braunr, Dr. Donald Kommers, Dr. Hobert Ladrech and 
5Doc 

Dr . .I. Hobertways of St. Mary's and Notre Dame. At 
6 Poplars 

Carroll Auditorium of Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's Col­
7 Daffodil legn. Sponsornd by Saint Mary's Political Science Club. 
a Countrified 51 Carpenter's 
7 p.m. Lecturn by Dean Hobert Waddick of Arts and 9 Sitcom starring --box 
52 An "Exodus"

Lettnrs on thn MBA (Mastnrs in Business Administration). Sherman Hemsley remounts star
In Hoom 114 O'Shag on Novembnr 12. Sponsored by Arts 30 Harass 
55 Shade of green 

10Cape 44 Celebrated
and Letters Business Society. 32 Fix 57 Author Hunter 
~~±:-I 11 Magnetize 

34 Guitarist Paul 45 Form of security eo Compete
Sunday, Nov.11 
12 Clobber 38 Seashore treat 48 Popular pastry 62 Tankard filler 

7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Women's contributions to peace," 
13 Metal or glass

Kathlnnn Maas Weigert, faculty fellow at The Peace Insti­bottle 37 Hailed tute and faculty liaison/academic coordinator at the esc.. '!'!'t-.,-+:=+:::+=-t=+=-t 15 Fished 38 Three Ripkens 
Answers to any three clues in this in Grace Hall. -:-+-:'+::-+:::-i 23 Truly 39 Dangerfield's puzzle are available by touch-tone -=+~::-+:::-i 25 Work at a quest phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each cantina 40 Gyle or keeve minute). 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Turkey Tettrazini Seafood Enchiladas Fried Fish Boats Cantonese Pineapple Turkey Broiled Haddock Beef Ragout Burgundy Fried Bread Cheese Pizza Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


,:}1~ 
\,.......... 'J-,, 
'~ ~ 
-..II, !h~ 



~ 1990 Uruversal 


** * SPELUNK£R. sPECIAL fEATURE. *~ * 
~ 
'r ')r~·~[tt:
ARE Yoo suR£ 

,-rfl t 
You WWL.DN' T 1...11<£ 

fl CoMPIJTeR. OR CoPI~R TO (nO WITH YO\IR ORD€.'R, DSTE:GTII/t:: FRIDitY? 
\ 

, 
, 

TitE. fAX', MA'AM, 
:rusT THE. FA J( 
/ 

Cushing Auditorium 8:00 and 10:30 
... 
I...=~:.......................~=~-.............-~~~~~:.~ ..~~...:.:......-~~~R~~-~ -~ ~~?~.~?~.~~~ 

I.. 
I Sports 
Friday, November 2, 1990 
a e 24 
ND hockey opens at home 
Observer Staff Report having trouble shooting the Louder was faced with the puck, and Zadra says he doubts unenviable task of replacingthat Bankoske, who led the Lance Madson, who graduated
After playing its first five 
Irish in scoring last season, will last spring. Madson held games on the road the Irish· be able to play this weekend. numerous Notre Dame recordshockey team finally host its first Sophomore Curtis Janicke, who and was the cornerstone of last 
game against Ferris State 
is just returning from an injury year's Irish team, but Louder
tonight at 7:30 at the Joyce 
himself, will replace Bankoske has made sure that the IrishACC. The Irish will then travel on the first line for the Irish. haven't missed the departedto Ferris State for the second Notre Dame (1-3-1) recorded star too much. 
game of the home-and-home its first victory of the season "He's been an outstanding
series. 
last weekend against Kent freshman goalie for us so far,"
The Bulldogs are 7-2-2 
State. After scoring just five Zadra says. "He has had someagainst the Irish to date, and goals in their frrst three games, big shoes to fill since Lance
defeated eighth-ranked 
all losses, the Irish broke loose Madson left, but we're encour­Michigan last weekend. The in their two-game series at aged by his progress so far this
Irish have not beaten Ferris 
Kent. They scored 12 goals in year."
State since 1982, and although the two games, winning 7-4 last Louder, who has played every the Bulldogs only has a 2-3-3 Friday night and tying 5-5 minute of the season in goal for record to date, the Irish expect 
Saturday. the Irish, has a 4.32 goals­them to be a very formidable "In the beginning of the sea­against average and an .884 
opponent. 
son you sometimes start out a save percentage.
"We know they are playing a little bit shaky," Zadra says. On the other end of the rink,
very tough schedule in the 
"We've been getting good shots, Notre Dame will count on lead­
CCHA league," Notre Dame but we have run up against ing scorers Zadra (3 goals, 1
winger Lou Zadra says. "They some really talented goalies. I assist), Mike Curry (3 goals, 1
should be a big, strong 
think we're coming out of our assist), Sterling Black (2 goals,
team-we will be 
shell, though, after all, we did 1 assist) and Janicke (2 goals, 1 
outsized-and it should be a 
score seven goals and then five assist). The Irish will needvery physical game." 
against Kent State." these veterans to carry the load 
A key injury also concerns 
One player who has in the early stages of the sea­
the Irish. Center Dave 
continued to be a pleasant son, because injuries to players
Bankoske has slightly torn 

surprise for the Irish is The 0bse1ver I Soot! McCann
cartilage in his shoulder. He is freshman 
goalie Greg Louder. see HOCKEY I p. 20 
The Irish hockey team skates into action against Ferris State in its 
all will hold
Irish to host Rolex Champs 
By DAVE McMAHON loose lately," said a relaxed 

Blue-Gold game Sunday 
Sports Writer 
Coleman. "But most teams are bringing their top four players, 

By KEN TYSIAC players scored in double figures Some of the best men's tennis so there's definitely going to be 
Associate Sports Editor in the scrimmage. Junior
players in the Midwest will con­
some tough matches." 

Daimon Sweet scored 14verge on the Eck Tennis 
These will be nothing new to points, senior Kevin Ellery hadPavilion this weekend as Notre 

the Irish, who play what is 

The Notre Dame men's and 
12, and juniors Keith Tower
Dame hosts the Rolex Regional 
probably the most difficult 

women's basketball teams will 
and Elmer Bennett had 10
Singles and Doubles schedule of any represented 

tune up for their season open­apiece.
Championships, the final event 
team. 

ers Sunday in their Blue-Goldfor the fall season. 
"We had a tough fall sched­

intrasquad games. The Irish 
"Athletes in Action showed us
Irish junior All-American 
ule, but I think the competitive­women will take the court at 6 a lot about ourselves," TowerDavid DiLucia, seeded first and ness of the matches we played 

p.m. for a 20-minute scrim­
says. "It also showed us somecoming off a semifinal appear­earlier in the season will help mage, and the men's game will 
things we have to work on.
ance in last week's Volvo us out," said Coleman. 
follow. 

Every individual needs to work
Collegiate Championships, Ron Rosas 
Sophomores Andy Zurcher, The men looked very impres­on one-on-one defense. Later in 

could see a rematch with seeded in the 17-32 draw, and sive during an exhibition vic­

the season we can't have as
Northwestern's Steve Herdozia, Coleman, fresh off four pre­Ron Rosas, along with fresh­

tory over Athletes in Action many turnovers as we had in
who eliminated DiLucia in the qualifying wins at the Volvo man Tommy North and senior Nov. 5. Junior forward 
that game. But at the same
semifinals of last year's tour­Championships, hopes he can Ryan Wenger, will also vie for LaPhonso Ellis was a force in time we beat a good team andnament and later ousted him in keep up his tactics against such two qualifying slots to the na­that game, scoring 28 points played to our potential."
the NCAA tournament. quality competition. 

and adding 13 rebounds to lead
Fourth-seeded Chuck "I've been playing pretty 

see TENNIS I p. 19 Lb_o_t_h_te_a_m_s_._F_ou_r_o_th_e_r_Ir_i_s_h_______s.::...e:....:e:....:H_O_O_P_S_I....:p_._18_1 
Men's and women's harriers at District IV Champs 
Men attempt to 

Women try to end strong,
qualify for NCAA 

face tough competition
By Barbara Moran 
Sports Writer 

By RICHARD MATHURIN Michigan.
The Notre Dame men's cross­

Sports Writer "We'd like to be in the top ten country team travels to West of thirty-nine teams," said Head Lafayette, Ind., tomorrow to 
The Notre Dame women's Track Coach Joe Piane. 
face their toughest test of the cross country team's season No one Irish runner has been season as they will attempt to started out in ominous fashion dominant, rather a new face 

qualify for the NCAA Champi­with a loss15-50 to steps to the front every week.
onships. 

Georgetown. Now that meet is The hero of the MCC The tenth-ranked Irish hope but a distant memory for the Championships was sophomoretheir near-perfect season and ever improving Irish. They will Lisa Gorski, who led the Irish 
recent capture of the MCC 

travel to West Lafayette, Ind. to with a time of 18:47, after hav­crown will give them the mo­compete in the NCCA District IV ing a previous best finish of mentum they need to qualify.
" on Saturday, fresh off a victory 19:37.4 in the Georgetown
Notre Dame has suffered only in the MCC Championships on meet. 

one loss this season, to William 

October 27. The most consistent runnerand Mary, while posting a con­
The Irish will run against the for the Irish this season has
vincing victory over 

deepest and most· talented field been junior Amy Blaising, whoGeorgetown and capturing the they have faced so far this year, has finished no worse thanNational Catholic and Notre including the Big Ten's top 18th in any of the Irish meets. 
Dame Invitational titles. 

three finishers in Wisconsin, Junior Diana Bradley may beNone of these victories come Michigan and second-ranked Notre Dame's strongest runner,into account, however, when 
Indiana. Indiana boasts the but has been plagued by
the district representatives to nation's top overall runner in inconsistency this year. Thetile NCAA championships are Michelle Decker, while Irish will need her to run herdetermined. The season hinges • Wisconsin is led by record-set­best race of the year if they 

I on tomorrow's crucial race, be­ting runner Susie Favor, who hope to attain their goals in the 
... 
cause only the top three finish­has won ten meets in her ca­meet.

r 
ing teams will proceed to the

I reer. The top two teams from the
NCAA finals, regardless of sea­

Also in the field will be some meet will qualify for the NCCA son record. 
teams the Irish already have Championships in Knoxville, met this year like Purdue, Ohio 
see MEN I p.19 University, and Western see WOMEN I p. 19 



,.. 



