
VOL. XXIII NO. 138 FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Proposed move of local bookstore stirs controversy because of zoning 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
A debate is brewing in South Bend's northeast neighborhood over the pro­posed move of Pandora's Books to a new location on the corner of Howard St. and Notre Dame Ave. 
Pandora's Books is presently located at 808 Howard Street and would like to move across the street into a "bigger and nicer structure," accord­ing to Store Manager Mandy Arnold. 
In order for Pandora's to make a move across the street the plot of land would have to be rezoned from an A­residential zone to a C-1 commercial zone. 
Art Quigley, president of the north­
east neighborhood association and 
associate professor emeritus, opposes 
the rezoning based on bad experiences 
with this piece of land in the past. He 
said that he does not oppose a book­
store in the neighborhood; however, 
he does not want it on that particular 
corner. 
"It's a beautiful place for three 
homes," he said. Renelda Hobinson, 
director of the northeast 
neighborhood association, agreed 
saying, "We need some affordable 
housing in this area." 
"We really want to have a new 
store," said Arnold. She said the new 
plan, which includes a parking lot and 
landscaping, will get cars off the 
street. Presently, customers at Pan­
dora's must park on Howard St. in 
front of the store. 
She said. the operation would not 
change and promised that there would 
be no large delivery trucks, only small 
vans. Quigley said that in the past there was a restaurant on this slot of land which was respectable for a period of time. He said, however, that after the restaurant was granted a liquor li­
cense it "went downhill." 
James Roemer, director of Com­munity Helations at Notre Dame, said that the official University position supports the northeast neighborhood association. The offieial stance was a result of discussions by Hoerner. Thomas Mason. vice president for 
Business Affairs, Philip Faccenda. general counsel, and Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of Notre Dame. 
He said that although the owners of 
Pandora's are "very good neighbors 
and well respected, wonderful people," 
the neighborhood residents do not 
want a bookstore on this corner. 
A petition against the rezoning of 
the land was signed by approximately 
200-300 residents, said Hoerner. 
He said that if Pandora's possibly failed, for example, the property could then be sold for commercial use. "Once it's rezoned. we have no control," said Robinson. 
"Supporting the proposed change to C-1 for this corner permits only lim­ited commereial use of property for such buildings as a bookstorn, This zoning changes does not permit tlw establishing a bar, restaurant or most other commercial uses; nor does Pan­dora's Books or the lloward-ND Part­nership (the builders of the building) have any interest in promoting or lm­couraging sueh ventures in our neigh­borhood." according to a Oyer put out by Pandora's. 
Arnold said that the bookstore polled the residents of the neighbor­hood by phone from April 1 through April 25. "We were pleased to sec how many people are for it (the proposed move)," she said. She said over 1000 contacts were attempted and over 500 responses were obtained. 

see PANDORA'S I page 4 

By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
Approximately 3,02H inci­dnnts wnre reported to Notre Dame Security in 19H9, a figure which is dose to the number of ineidents for the year before, according to Hex Hakow, diree­tor of Seeurity. 
This figure is a bit different from those of past years since traffic citations are now in­cluded, Hakow said. Larceny is traditionally the largest eate­gory of ineidents on campus, he said. and 500 of this year's re­ports were of some type of theft. 
"Larcenies include everything from stolen w11llets, bookbags, bicyeles, to car radios,"said Chuck llurley, assistant direc­tor of Security. 
Rakow said improvements are being made in combatting larceny. Last fall, a South Bend resident was apprehended in connection with the theft of bookbags at Notre Dame. The woman had attempted to sell the books to local bookstores. 
Public accidents increased significantly in 1989, according to Hakow. "These include per­sonal injuries from playing basketball to people falling out of lofts," Hakow said. 
Vandalism, assaults and towing all stayed at about the same level, said Rakow. Two hundred fifty-six cars were towed in 1989 and 84 have been towed as of March, Rakow said. 
"It was a good year overall, but recent assaults have been the most troubling prob­lem,"said Hakow. Hakow cited three series of assaults on campus this year. A jogger in a blue swcatsuit and a band of juveniles each separately both­ered women in the fall. A series of assaults that began in April have lead to the arrest of a suspect. 
"We have stepped up patrols and have placed people in vari­ous locations to watch," Hurley said. "Rightfully, females are concerned as we are," he added. 
Hakow stated that the in­volvement of Security with the student-based SafeWalk pro­gram was the most positive event of the year. "SafeWalk allowed us to do more patrol time," Rakow said. 
SafeWalk was started this year by junior Gina Mahony as a response to the attacks that occurred in the fall. Security has always offered escorts to people, but most students were not aware of it, according to Hurley. 
A new computer system will be used in the next few weeks that will keep records of every incident and accelerate the pro­cess of getting information, Hakow said. 
Other changes for next year will include the relocation of the Security department to the old HOTC Building. 
"The new offices will give us the opportunity to work more closely with student groups and offer more educational semi­nars on crime prevention," Hurley said. 
A few more Security positions will be added to next year's staff in response to the expan­sion of the campus, according to Hurley. 
Hurley said that the summer session at Notre Dame is not as "day-to-day busy," but that there are still many events such as alumni reunions and special events at the JACC. 
Some goals that the depart­ment is working on include the continuation of a good rapport with students and letting them know that "we are here to serve the University community," Hurley said. The expansion of education about crime preven­tion is another goal. 
Although this is only Hurley's second year of working for Notre Dame Security, he said it has been going smoothly and he enjoys working here. 

Ideas tor improved female experience at ND are given 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
A sex-blind admissions procedure, co-residential housing, an increase in fe­male faculty and a policy al­lowing the consumption of alcoholic beverages in dorm hallways are among the di­verse conditions that would improve the female experi­ence at Notre Dame, accord­ing to a ~·udent Government report. 
In the last few years, due to a discrepancy between the number of women who ap­plied to NO and the number who were accepted and at­tended, a conscious effort was made to increase the number of women accepted. Men's and women's applica­tions have been evaluated. separately. 
The Student Government report to the Board of Trustees recommends an admissions procedure that does not take into account the sex of the applicant, to "enable the most qualified applicants to be accepted, thus contributing to the highest possible quality of student body." 
"All the ivy league schools 
Student Government 

Report on: 
(NO) The ROLE

¥ ofWOMEN 
have sex-blind admissions policies," said Amy Weber, chairperson for the report, "and their ratio is about what ours is. The applicant pool may increase if women realize they're not pitted against other women." 
Co-residential housing should initially be offered to upperclassmen on an exper­imental basis, the report says. Siegfried, Knott, Pas­querilla East and Pasqucrilla West should be converted first, as their "L" shape would allow separation of sexes by wing. 
Co-residentiality would "provide a natural environ­ment in which men and women could learn from each other, leading to the creation of mutual respect," &ays the report. 
Within ten years all de­partments in the college of Arts and Letters should have 
see WOMEN I page 4 
Friday, May 4, 1990
The Observer
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The Good, the Bad, and the Golden Dome 
She rode into town in 1972 in a cloud of dust, tethered her horse and prepared to stay. 
The townspeople regarded her suspi­ciously through their 
windows. They wer.e Alison Cocks 
coldly polite as she 
bought provisions at Editor-in-Chief their General Store and took a room in one of their boarding houses. 
But they stopped her as she tried to enter the Golden Dome Saloon. "Men only, ma'am," said the barkeep, doffing his hat to her. 
The men in the smoke-filled saloon turned hostile eyes to her, then went back to their high-stakes poker game, taking swigs of beer and adding chips to the pile. 
She went away quietly this time, but de­termined to return. 
The townsfolk accepted the stranger; she began to feel a part of them as they smiled politely and touched the brims of their hats as they passed. 
But there still remained the saloon. She passed it day after day as she walked down the street in the town, hearing piano music and boisterous laughter wafting through the swinging doors. The life of the town lay in the saloon, she knew, but for her it was strictly taboo. 
Once in awhile someone would stagger in front of the saloon, drunk, yelling half-co­herent challenges to the men inside. They would emerge, their silent manner ominous, and take care of the problem quickly. Ten paces, turn and fire ... the troublemaker never stood a chance. The townsfolk would mutter behind their window shades, but their justice prevailed. As long as the poker games continued, the whiskey flowed and the music echoed down the street all was right in the world. 
Years passed and she established roots in the town. Working quietly alongside her neighbors she earned her living and her place. The acceptance and the friendliness ceased to amaze her and became a matter of course. By day she felt as though the town had always been her home. 

By night the saloon still irked her. She had 
won the respect of the town, but the saloon 
remained an exclusive area and she had yet 
to gain admission. After dark she was still 
not completely accepted. 
What the hell, she thought one day, I'll try again. Maybe this time ... 
She approached the saloon, drawn as al­
ways by the sounds emanating from within. 
Boldly she pushed the door open. Heads 
turned but no one spoke. Silently the men at 
the poker table shifted in their seats and 
pulled a chair out for her, pushing a glass 
of whiskey her way. 

The Golden Dome Saloon let a woman into 
its men's club. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Ihe ObserYer_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Friday's Staff 
News VIewpoint Monica Yant 
Accent 
Sandra Wiegand Becky Pichler Paul Pearson 
Mike Owen Kathleen Welsh Alison Cocks 
Danni~'l Simpson Lisa Eaton 
Systems
Ad Design Sporls 
Cesar Capella Laura Rossi 
Jeanne Naylor Ken Tysiac 
Deirdre Bell Anne McCarthy Production 
Circulation
Kelly McHugh Cristina Oritz Quinn Satepauhoodle Lisa Eaton 
Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through· Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 3 
~------------------­
Issue of rape addressed at Board of Trustees meeting 
By PETER AMEND planning for the presentation •Have you ever witnessp,d a News Writer all semflster. The report b11gan professor make a sexist com­with a vidno concerning sexual ment? 
Hape at Notre Damn was one harassment on campus. The •Are there prevalent stereo­of many issuns brought to the video, created by an ND film types of women on this cam­attnntion of thn Board of major, was an innovation in pus? Trustees by three studnnt com munieation media for stu­•What are the major safety committees on Thursday. dPnt committee reports to the concerns at ND? 
Tlw Wonwn of Notre Damn Board. The committee on sexuality Committen, !waded by Chair­The video showed students at ND suggested that all rape woman Amy Weber, had been responding to 3 ouestions: and sexual harassment inci-

The Board of Trustees are intent upon a video concerning sexual harassment at Notre Dame created and produced by an NO film major. Ann Weber, chairwoman of the Women of Notre Dame Committee, was responsible for this presentation"()f the current situation of women and what measures can be taken to improve it. 
TODAY ONLY 
ADRIAN DALY (piano) at Annenberg Auditorium Friday, 4:00p.m. 
Music by Bach, Mozart, Berg, Leighton, Chopin B.Y.O.B 
-----------------~· ----------~L 
HAT'S OFF TO 


MITCH KERN 

dents should be made public in order to reveal to the student body the extent of the problem. Many advocates for educating Notre Dame students on the problem of rape want conse­quences of rape to be made clear to incoming male fresh­men during orientation. 
The issue of women giving re­nections at Mass instead of the priest's homily was also raised. It was argued that the Univer­sity's decision to allow Provost Tim O'Mnara, an unordained man, to give the homily at the Baccalaureate Mass was a double standard in this issue. It was noted that women often give the homily at summer Masses at ND, and this practice could be extended to the regu­lar school year. 
A suggnstion was made that ND should makf~ an effort to improv1~ the mlationship be­tween the women of Notre Damn and Saint Mary's College. It was noted that when Notrn Dame first acceptml womnn 18 years ago, tlw ND women im­mediately subseribed to the stereotypes about SMC women established by men at Notre Dame. 
As for the stereotypes of women in general. the sugges­tion was made to implement a genders study course in the re­quired curriculum in the hope that it could help battle gmH.Ier ignorance. It was reported that the University has been very rn­ceptive to the idea, yet still needs the funding to st<irt such a program. 
A committee for the Graduate Women at Notre Dame wants a center established for tho graduate women as a place wh!lrn the women can nHnn to­gether as a community and act as a support network for each other. The committee said that these women are generally a minority in their disciplines and oftnn do not find any support within their departnwnt. 
In the dosing of the nwnting, a brief report purportPd that Student Aetivi'iies do1~s not sat­isfy thn n1wds of the nwdia groups: WVFI, WSND, and Scholastk. Tlw committee sug­gc~sted that an autonomous group outside Student ArtivitiPs eould soiPly regulat1~ tlwse stu­dPnt medias. 
Hobert l'asin, studPnt body presidnnt. said "It's unfortu­nate that only five out of I:{ trustees attendPd thn nweting. llowever. the n~ports don't end thorn. The reports will be sent to all trustees and officnrs of the University. The student government will follow up to­day's meeting with eontinw~d rnports on these issues." 


~------------------~ ---­
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1990
page 4 

Women 
continued from page 1 
a number of women faculty members which reflects na­tional availability rates, the re­port says. Presently less than eight percent of ND faculty with tenure are women. Bene­fits to increase retention of fe­male faculty should include parental leave and child care policies and spousal employ­ment initiatives. 
Alcoholic beverages should be allowed in the hallways during semi-formals, Student Govern­ment recommends, since drinking continues behind closed doors anyway, and "the current rule...inhibits two of the most positive aspects of the semi-formals: social interac­tion and hall unity." 
Information from various universities provided ideas for the report, Weber said. Brochures from Stanford Uni­versity designed to introduce women to the campus spurred the idea of a "Women's Guide to Notre Dame," she said. 
Other recommendations in­clude the following: 
•Permanent 
status for the Gender Studies Program, along with a continued attempt to se­cure an endowment for the program. 

•Re-evaluation 
of the curricu­lum to eliminate gender bias. 

•A 
formal procedure for submitting sexual harassment complaints. 

•Guaranteed 
participation at campus masses for Eucharistic ministers. even when enough priests are present to accom­modate the congregation. 

•Greater 
participation for women at the year's opening mass. 

•Installation 
of 25 emergency telephones to improve security, especially in the parking lots, and additional lights around campus that retain the "aesthetically pleasing" ap­pearance of the campus. 

•A 
24-hour area for study and social purposes for the en­tire campus. The basement of LaFortune is recommended. 

•A 
change in athletic policy to 


obtain accordance with Title IX regulations, which guarantee equality for both sexes regard­ing various athletic benefits and opportunities, "not only because it is the law, but because it is the fair and right 
thing to do." 
ATTENTION:

r 
I 
~DENTS AND TEACHERS P oppor1unity PT/FT anywhere 
in u.sA. Talk to 


prospect.lmmediates ca'h income, longtenn ntsidual income through school )'8Cr. No deliveries-no 
at~rconwn 
Interviews .very Thursday, 7pn­Marriott Hotel-Indiana Rm.-a,k for Thentse Hannon. 
PASTA DISHES LASAGNA SEAFOOD RISOTTO 

SHELLS FLORENTINE STUFFED FLOUNDER EGG PLANT PARMIGIANA CAPPElLETTI 
PIZZA 
BANQUET ROOM 

= 

Pandora's 
continued from page 1 
According to the people who responded to the survey, 250 or 45 percent said yes to the ques­tion, "Are you in favor of a new bookstore on Notre Dame Ave. at Howard St?" 198 or 36 per­cent said they don't care, 69 or 12 percent said no, and 37 or 7 percent were undecided. These results reflect a combination of two separate surveys by Pan­dora's. 
Opponents of the rezoning questioned the validity of the survey. Roemer said that he heard Pandora's merely asked residents whether they would like to have a bookstore in the neighborhood, not if they minded rezoning in their neigh­borhood. 
Father David Schlaver, editor and publisher of Ave Marla Press, recently wrote a column in the South Bend Tribune voicing his support for the re­zoning. 
"A new and larger store would serve the South Bend and Notre Dame community better, and I think would greatly bene­fit the northeast neighbor­hood," he said. 
While opponents agree that they are not against the idea of a new bookstore, they sug­gested several alternative loca-

Mandarin 
& Hunan Cuisine

'YALL 
Lunches starting at_____ 
For Rent 
Dinners starting at_____ 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon. -Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. -Sat
+-------" Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME
xie Way S., South Bend (next to Ranaall's lnnl 
FEATURES INCLUDE: 
11.11.11.11.11.11.11.11.11-II·L· 
Security Systems 
THE CONGREGATION OF ~ 
Basements 




-~ ~~~ 
~

•=o~ 
1:~ 
I ~ = 
I 
: 
~ e1 ~ I ~ 
: b"
1 ~ ~ 
-a\ 
them$~~ 
_ 
-~ 
1 _ 
-
= 
I 
:
...... 
"Since 1981" 

@a..ioi'o 
"The Italian Ristorante" 
Dinner 4p.m. -11p.m. Sundays 4-9p.m. (219)232-4244 
hood to have this area re­zoned," Robinson said. 
Pandora's, however, believes that they have support from the residents. "We're not going to let it (the rezoning efforts) ground to a halt without some effort," said Arnold. 
AP Photo 

tions to the proposed site. 
Roemer said he suggested that Pandora's move into Goodwill plaza, in the location that is currently Brunos Pizza. He said that this area is "properly zoned" for a busi­ness. 
In addition, Roemer said that Notre Dame offered to buy the lot at the corner of Howard St. and Notre Dame Ave. from Pandora's, at the same price Pandor-a's owners paid for it, in order to prevent the rezoning. 
He added that Notre Dame has a particular interest in this neighborhood because there are numerous students, faculty and staff who reside in the area. "Notre Dame is concerned be­cause of the people who live there." 
Robinson said she suggested that Pandora's consider moving next to Club 23, while Quigley suggested the area wherP Corby's bar used to stand. 
Roemer voiced a final concern for the University pointing out that Notre Dame Ave. is the main entrance-way to the cam­pus. He said the University must be concerned with the most attractive way to main­
tain that road be it commercial A member of the international environmental protection group or residential. ~ Greenplace spills water of the Elba in front of the entrance of the 
However, Schlaver maintains East German parliament Building (Volkskammar) on Thursday. that " ... a new building with The woman pours out the stinking water to demonstrate the off-street parking could only degree of pollution of East German rivers. 
enhance the neighborhood." ~~~;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;~;;~ 
Chinese-American Restaurant & Cocktail Loun&e 
TOWNHOUSES

Authentic Szechuan, 
Discussion of the rezoning will continue next in front of the South Bend Common Coun­cil, according to Quigley. 
"I'm proud or our neighbor­hood and I don't feel it is in the best interest or the neighbor-
Stinking Water 

Rear Yards 



HOLY CROSS i 
Washer & Dryer

-
-
New Construction 

Through vision, work and prayer Holy Cross I­
Good Neighborhood

-
I­
priests and brothers have ~ven life to the ­
Dishwashers University of Notre Dame, enriching our world I
-
call

-
with timeless values, caring service. I
-
-
I 


232-8256 

Holy Cross also serves avariety of ministries: i schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to i the poor and others... 
For information: 
~ Make your graduation
reservations now. South of Notre Dame s Golden Dorrie 1412 South Bend A.;enue 
~ 
] 

The Observer page 5
r:Y~May 4, 1900 

Class 
continued from paoe 25 To my Star-man: You've shown me that there's more to George Michael than sex. taught me the right way to play with cards, and learned me 2 truly appreciate your Live Crew. You are, and always will be, my strength. Love. Shan 
-To the guys of 11 B, even you sludly managers. have a great summer! 
Happy Birthday 

ERIN TIERNEY! Have fun even though you have to take exams on your B-dayl Love, your buddies in 2B 
Dear BM: We have to meet. You know where.tonight,?pm. Bring a condom. --Your admirer 
Vin, 
Congratulations and best of luck next year. We'll miss you!! Love. 
Jo, Kar. Mar. & Suz 

PS Try sit-ups, they work! 
mo-how can you not get a big, strong man next year since we'll be livin' in the loveshack---k & s 
Hey Don Juan. 
Give us a little RESPECT. The sweat pants dance must be seen before we graduate. 
Love. The BPgir1s 
Little Ma(~Qie 

I hope you have a great 19th on the 9th. I know since I'll be there you will. 
Artificial Stimulation 
JULIE and LAURA. The top 1 0 qoutes to remember in Angers: 
10. In case you forgot, that's a trash compactor. 
9. You're from where? You can pinch my ass any time! 
8. Must be the drugs. 
7. nu ni nu ni nu 
6. kitchen 
5. It's 3 A.M. Do you know my mind is? 
4. barefoot, ceramic tile floors. and in the rain 
3. BONZAI! 
2. Sucks For You! 
1. Purrrfect together! 
-love the third member of the triple from hell, 91-92 
To:Heavers,Cioudsys,those studying in Ireland, France & Austria next year, and anyone I have ever gotten drunk, danced, laughed, bitched and talked with, but most import-antly, anyone who listened to me:"Friends start off as seedlings; nurture and care for them and only then will you experience the real beauty of life. • I couldn't have survived without you. !love you all. -MIK 
Amy Dunlap: 
I hope you have a wonderful 
birthday! I know the perfect place 
to celebrate Cinco 
de Mayo--interested? 
Love, Steve 

To the Badin Boxes-­
! may slam hard, but you covered 
me well--And I prefer to leave my 
shoes ON!! 
--The Weindork 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY KELLY RAY Love. Jenny, Mom, & Norbert 
$$UPS GfY. $ 
s~,. ~~,. $ 7~Q Always Had It 1 18 ALWAYS WILL THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
Lafortune Basement SOc off each box with ad ( Ex. 5 boxes = $2.50 SAVINGS !) 
Not an agent of UPS 
WE WILL REMAIN OPEN THRU THE SUMMER 
RIDE TO D. C., BALTIMORE 
AREA DESPERATELY NEEDED 
AFTER FINALS. Not much 
luggage; will pay & drive. 
Dave x1764 
Pete Marshall 
Pete Marshall 
Pete Marshall 
Congratulations on a successful four years!ll!ll!ll ---Love Kris 
roberto, the burley one: i've said it before. and i'll say it again--blood sucking arthropods. i owe you 
more than...thanks. (her 
harveyness.) 
P (he who mistakes Kerouac for Willie Nelson)--fun. yes? weird, yes? all-nighters and late-nighters and other experiences we tend to (try to) forget. what now? (she who knows the difference, but not the story, and who hopes he did not tape over with Journey) 
Kim Martin, This is to wish you a happy birthday early. So Happy 19th a month in advance. And thanks for listening to all my bitching this past year! Just wait till August! 
Love, 
T.V. Queen 
Regina 4-North Thanks for being great floor mates, and Thanks Doreen for being a terrific A.A. Good luck next year! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
PAM HUNT!!! 
WE LOVE YOU! 
LOVE, ALL YOUR FRIENDS IN QUEEN'S COURT 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY 
ANDREA ARMENTO 
MAY 5TH From your old pal from across the street...............................Kim 
NOW OPEN TO All JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
FALL SEMESTER, 1990 1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 9:30, 11:00, 1:15 SECTIONS FOCUS: WRITING SKILLS 
SPEAKING SKILLS 
INTERPERSONAL SKILLS 
NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY 

HEY EVERYBODY-REMEMBER ..? GO FOR DONUTS ...6-MAN...FACE DOWN ON THE QUAD ...UB LOOPY IABW ...PUSH IT...BEEFY EDDIE... PARTY BULBS ...ST PAT'S '89...GOOD FRIDAY ...TUESDAY NIGHT AT AZARS ...THE DOCK...O.K., SEE YOU IN CHURCH...WELL. OBVIOUSL Y ...MICHIGAN...WELC OME TO BUTT BUTTS ...SEMI­FORMAL VOLLEYBALL...TEQUILLA SHOTS...SECURITY SHACK...FREE THROWS ...THOSE PEOPLE...GINO'S EAST & WEST...T.C. PARTIES...FORTUNES...SR. FORMAL?? I ALWAYS WILLL!II THANKS EVERYBODY FOR THE GREATEST FOUR YEARS! LOVE, CAPT. ZARD, BUB, LIZARD LIPS. LIZ-0, LISBON, LIZ-KID. SLY LIZ, JUST ME 
Valentines 
"2" -Stay Gold Ben -You're #1 in our hearts Jim-Get a Life! Play a Sport! Kevin -Glad You Got a Girlfriend ­About Time! Dave -Congratsl Our first 
conversation. Mark -Keep Smilin' Yoda, ya, ya, ya Yoda Albs -watch out for Scary 
Mary! 
Grace 3-D. Good Luck on Finals. We love you! 
Ed and John, Good Luck on finals -Time's running out. Love, Your Honey's and 
Bridge 

MICHEAL. MEL, AND STAN! (Mr. Taco Hell): In a class of your own-the coolest cats ever to represent Pangborn. How's the proverbial saying go? Have a nice summer? Somethin like that. Yours in Christ, H.C. domain, rm.228 
TODAY: LAST FRIDAY LUNCHI! 
To all our Flanner. Fisher and Morrissey friends-you know who you are-(and Kathy and Lynn): Keep your cool during finals week and have a great summer! We're gonna miss y'alll 
Take care, Christine, Jill, Lynn"Salmon"Amon & mystery rm.mate Kimberly! 
We are women, hear us roar! I am hulking, yah. Deez are 
not girly muscles. I'll take a pound of provolone! Great books for $500, thank you Alex. We want these cooked. (an all time fave-)WHOREI Take as • you'll feel better. Tim, is that your cervix? If there's one thing I know ... "SHUT UP, John-Good-Guy did not yak In the split pea soup." O.k., here's the thing ... Christine, Julie's in the room, thank you Julie. Bill Schmill OH, OHI HHHOTI Oh, p-!easel Who's going skiing? Why's everyone going skiing? Why is it so windy in here? It's NOT like it's queer or anything. 
CP, Slammin, Rupes and Cough-alot, WE KICK A 'I Go(__). It's you I 
3 SOUTH SMC's Erin Bimbo Helen Fao Falken Sluggo Bridge les Cipow Pisser Rogers Jill Kristen Molls 
It's been fun ... StefOiickme 
To Will Edelmuth Of Bridgets: I've admired you closely and from afar, I always visit your favorite bar. Let's get togethe.nd romp and shake, True love is what our hearts will make. Love KATHY MCKEE 
To Stef 0-LICK·ME and Molly 0· CHASTITY: Have fun in AU-JUICE! We'll sorta miss you ...?Luhv, Falken and Foe 
HEY YOU I Make sure you wish the man with the biggest digits on campus a happy 20th birthday. He'll be a big boy come May 5. (hee hee)(that's your cue, Tim) 
MARGARET SYKES 
HAPPY 19TH We know this is early but we just wanted to tell you that even though that Grace man might not love you we still do. Love, Sheilah, Kim, Renee and all your 4th Floor Regina North Buddies! 
TIM, JOE, JAMIE, MARK, SEAN, 
BRENT. & ALEX...... Hey Dudes: Good Luck on your finals! Be ready to party on Wed!!! Jenny, Natalie, Holly, & Regi 
KELLES This is your EGO calling. 
"54" 
Love. Me, Myse~. and I 

noon-2pm 

TONIGHT: DOMESTIC NIGHT 
Closed Saturday for finals will re-open Friday Night, May 11th 

We'll PackageAnything 
(YOU'VE GOT ON CAMPUS OR OFF) 
andShipit ~ Anywhere! .~ 
You're smart enoap to lmow a1ooc1 
A 

your belonglnp and let them home Ql
deal when you .ee one. Let ua pack  
(or elsewhere).  :-:-:-w.--,  
Bring them to us, or call for pick up. • Ship via UPS, Federal Expreu, truck, air, or U.S. Po.tal Sn-olce. • Protective packaging, lncludln•  GV0  
exclusive Foam Sale.  
• Large Items, frll/lile lteiM, anythln•  

• CASH, CREDN CARD, LOCAL CHECK or COD ,. 10% DISCOUNI' TO S7VDEI(I'S 
914 Erskine Plaza 
South Bend 






'E~.n:s 

291-2000

~~ e 

----------~--~~--~--------~----~--------·~------------­
page 6 The Observer Friday, May 4, 1990 
Two Amtraks have accidents in less than 24 hours 
DURANT, Miss. (AP) -A passenger train crashed into a truck, injuring 29 people Thursday, less than 24 hours after another Amtrak train smashed into a row of freight cars in Indiana in an accident that injured 26. 
The latest accident occurred about 9:30 a.m. when the train, "City of New Orleans," en route from Chicagq to New Orleans, struck a log truck at a private railroad crossing near the Memphis Hardwood Co., alum­beryard in Durant. 
Authorities said no flashing lights or signs marked the crossing. 
"It looked like a dynamite explosion," said state Trooper Jimmie Thomas, who witnessed the accident. "When it hit, it scattered lumber all over cre­ation, and the truck was dragged down the track." 
"It was a big jolt," said pas­senger Melissa Mitchell. "Everybody woke up ... We got outside and saw that we were majorly off the track, but 
upright." 
Officials said 160 to 170 peo­ple, including crew, were on the train. At least two crew mem­bers were among those injured. 
It was the second Amtrak 

AP Photo 

Crawfordsville police officers secure an Amtrak cafe car which partially derailed after the train was incorrectly switched onto a siding containing parked freight cars. The engine (left) of the three-car train hit a box car. Twenty-six people were reported injured. Six were admitted to Culver Hospital in Crawfordsville and listed in satisfactory 
condition. 

Internships awarded 
Special to the Observer 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies has announced the selection of three students for summer in­ternships in human rights. 
The Institute awards up to three subsidized internships annually to outstanding under­graduates from any college in the University. The students will all be working in Washing­ton, D.C. this summer. 
Wendy Cunningham, of Wright-Patterson, Ohio, a gov­ernment and economics major, will spend two months as an in­tern with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights at the Organization of Ameri­can States. 
Susan Finn of Dallas, Texas, a Spanish and international re­lations major, will spend her in­ternship at the Washington Of­fice on Latin American (WOLA). 
Kathleen Mulhern, an English major from Basking Ridge, N.J. will be an intern at the Center of Concern. 
The interns spend their time in a variety of activities pro­moting human rights, including research, attendance at Con­gressional hearings, and office support to visiting dignitaries. 




FREE 

TANNING 

I.Buy 4* ~sion~t the7egula7l
I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 
1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
t...9et 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~ INDIANRtDGE PLAZA -HOURS: NEXT TO VENTURE Dally 9-8 GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA. Sat. 9-6 
Sun. 11·5277-7946 

• 


location: Comer of Main & Fifth Niles, Ml 683-3317 
BLACKWOOD APARTMENTS 
. Affordable Rent with Heat Included . Great E. Jefferson Blvd. Location . Friendly Community Atmosphere . 9 Month Student Leases 
Call288-2597 for Further Information on 1 and 2 Bedrooms Starting at $340. 
Dorland Group Property .@ Managed by Dorenkamper 
·== 

AP 

crash in two days and the third in two weeks. 
Authorities said an incor­rectly set switch sent a Chicago-to-Indianapolis train crashing into freight cars Wednesday night near Craw­fordsville, Ind. On April 22, at least 91 people were reported hurt, three seriously, when the national passenger rail line's California Zephyr derailed in Iowa en route from California to Chicago. 
The southbound "Hoosier 
~....................................................................i The Final  i  
1  Hours  1  
~  ~  
~  ""'mored ""'doriog "'"""""''"ddwtoilltog h""" of fiooh Week, Kinko's will be open and ready to assist when you need us.  ~  
~ ~!  Come into Kink~~~o~~~~~t;~\:~t~~~~·~~~~::papers, resumes0OPEN EARLY,  ~ I ~  
~  OPEN  LATE,  ~  
~!i  OPEN WEEKENDS Mon.-Frt.-7:00 a.m.-11 :00 p.m. Sat.-Sun.-9:00a.m.-6:00p.m.  ~ ~ ~  
I  271-0398  ~  
~  ~ 
18187 State Road 23  
~ II  kinko·s· the copy center  I1I  

.l......................................................................... 
State" with 30 to 35 people aboard derailed Wednesday night after striking five freight cars parked on an outside track 40 miles northwest of In­dianapolis. 
A passenger and the train's engineer and assistant engineer remained hosoitalized Thursday with minor injuries. The others were treated. 
"Thank God we were only going 25 (mph), or him and I would be history," said assis­tant engineer James Neff, 42, referring to himself and Am­trak employee James Ullery, 40. 
Ullery said that by the time he noticed the train was on the wrong track, it was too late. 
Officials from Amtrak, Con­r~il. the National Transporta­tion Safety Board and the Fed­era! Railroad Administration were investigating the cause of the crash, but released no pre­liminary results. Conrail owns the track where the accident occurred. 
In the accident at Durant, District Two Community Hospi­tal reported at least 25 people were brought from the scene. A spokeswoman said that except for the truck driver, most of the people were treated for bumps and bruises. 
, 


REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
IF YOU RENTED A REFRIGERATOR AT THE FALL MALL IT MUST BE RETURNED. 
WHEN: FRI MAY 4TH 2PM.-5PM WHERE: STEPAN BASKETBALL COURTS 
The refrigerators MUST be CLEAN, DRY and DEFROSTED in order to receive your deposit. 
NO EXCEPTIONS 
~ ---~~------------~--­

Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Leadership plays strong part in business, politics, speaker says 

By BRADLEY GALKO elected leaders accountable for News Writer their actions. 
In response to those who 
What began as a discussion cited negative drawbacks to on a French method of vacuum United States involvement in si­sealing food turned into a dis­tuations such as Lithuania, cussion on world politics and Grace said, "The fact that there thn role of the United States are trade-offs is not a reason and private business Thursday to not have leadership ... There night at the Morris Inn. arc trade-offs in everything, ... 
Pnter Grace, head of sales for (we should) admit that there Grace Culinary Systems and a are trade-offs and discuss al­IIJ64 graduate of Notre Dame, ternatives." addressed questions from the "I think we are going to have Notrn Dame Council on Inter­to make those kind of trade­national Business Development off's as a nation," he added. concerning oppression in East­However, Grace's remarks ern Europe, Lithuania, China, were not meant to blindly con­South Africa, and the Soviet done U.S. intervention. "I think Union. we need to encourage the de­
velopment ... of local enter­
"I think the critical issue is prise (in these foreign coun­leadership," said Grace, "We tries) ... (and) not quash local ruwd someone who is willing embryonic industries." He said and able to go out there and be failure to do this causes re­a leader, even if it's unpopular." sentment toward the United c;raen defirwd a leader as States even if it helps solve "someone who goes out and other pressing problems in says 'I think this is the way we those countrios. ought to go."' 
"Tiw husinnss community has lie added that the foreign rnspondml," he said. llf1 cited U.S. capital and domestic labor tlw integration of Dallas and materials "must be in con­schools in the 1970s as an ex­cor!" with each other. arnpln when~ business play1~d a Grace began his presentation leadership role in resolving a by showing a live-minute video­problem. "Tlw leadership was tape demonstrating sous vide, a tlwn~. In Lithuania, tlw leader­French method of vacuum­ship has to lw there; I don't see sealing food. Sous vide allows tlw leadership in Washington restaurant owners to prepare (I>.C.). .. foods at off-peak hours, cook 
tlwm within minutes with min-
c;raen said businessmen have imal labor, or store up to three to be responsible and "support weeks bnfore preparing. the right" in these global eon-Grace operates fifteen llicts. liP also said that every-restaurants in the Washington orw should hold our nlneted of-D.C. area, called American l'irials rnorP accountable. lie Cafe, that utilize the sous vide citPd the 96 pnre1~nt re-election method of food preparation. ratP of members of Congress as lie said the process was de­l'vidPrlrP of a lack on the part veloped in Europe because of U.S. citizens to hold their "th · (Eur cans) rec 
HAMMES 
NDTREDAME 
• 1 ·~ 1 ' ,. ~ r·o···~ • ~ 
.,,_.!• ·--' •""l J ... &i. 
the efficiency of labor." He cited a hospital in New Jersey 
where the method is scheduled to be implemented as one ex­ample where sous vide would cut labor costs. 
"This will help them stream­line," he said, "you're eliminat­ing a lot of labor in the hospital itself." He said he expects the method of food preparation to move into other areas of the food industry as well because, among other things, "you are able with that technology to of­fer a much broader, much more sophisticated menu." 
"I think there will be some applications in fast food. I don't think it's going to be im­mediate. I think it's going to be down the road," he said. 
One problem the method faces in restaurants he said is that "the customer has indi­cated that they don't want a branded product. They want to feel it was made for them, not made 150 miles away." 
Sous vide has unsuccessfully attempted to move into the grocery market. "We're actually packaging meals so people can just pick them up in a su­permarket," explained Grace. "This is a meal that when you bring it home, tastes just like a meal in a restaurant." The meals arc only marginally morn expensive than typical frozen dinners, he said. 
Responding to a question as to whether the typical American consumer would be willing to buy a high-quality meal in a package, he said, "That's one of the open issues, whether the American consumer will recog­nize that quality." 
So far General Foods, Nes­tles, and Campbell Soup have all tried to market sous vide products and failed. Kraft is currently test-marketing a product called Chillery in Kansas City. 
"The food business, like so many other businesses, is going to be technologically driven," Grace said of the future. "One of the reasons why it (technology like sous vide) is so expensive today is because the technology is just embryonic." 


Scotch Clear Scotch
Scotch Mailing 
Box Sealing Strapping
Tape (tan) 
Tape Tape 
$1.99 
$2.59 $2.39 

-~-·· ·~­

-------. 
Friday, May 4, 1990The Observer 

Democrats support public financing of campaigns, oppose PAC grants 
The Observer I Steve Moskop 

It's a Hallmark! 
In addition to the over 8,000 signatures already collected, Laurie Sommerland, Christy Bachta and Tiffany Stronsky gather even 
more in a campus-wide effort to extend the Notre Dame family to Carlos Petrozzi, a senior who was diagnosed with cancer in June 1985 and will soon face his second bone marrow transplant.  '1 lanon doin~ mymeonmyMat  

 
ATIENTION SENIORS: • Auditions for lectors • Ill  An makingMaan~h partofmyn!unf."  
Lector auditions for the Senior Last Visit to the Grotto & Baccalaureate Mass -UIOIVBniiJV or Noire Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 Utmy ConcoLnl 21 11·2311·5~ ...,. Hall218•2l8·5242 will be held on Tuesday, May 8th at 4:00pm in Stepan Center.  Bob Reich Sophomore Aa:ounting Major UnivmityofNotte Dame  

Ship Home With  
MAlL BOXES  
On Campus May 5-May 12 La Fortune Student Center The Dooley Room, First Floor • Avoid the Mall Traffic!! • We Ship UPS, DHL and Others • $1 00 Free Insurance for UPS • Boxes, Tubes, Tape, Labels • Save $1.00 on UPS with Ad On S.R. 23 Convenient Location Less than a Mile from Campus on 23 Just Past Ironwood, By the Subway • Passport Photos in 5 minutes • Packaging Service, Supplies • Open Sunday May 6Jb  There's alot more to an Apple• time-and for not-so-serious stuff, too. Macintosh• computer than just something to Having my own Macintosh is abig plus make aresume look good. Sure, it's got the now, and Iknow it'll give me an edge in the real capability to improve the look ofpractically any world, too. I'll be able to interface my Mac with document. But once you get beyond Macintosh mainframes and MS-oos• computers and still as just an elegant formatting tool, you begin to have the ease-of-use that Macintosh is famous understand why it's becoming so widely for. And that'll make me work better for accepted in the business world. My Mac® can whoever Iwork for. crunch numbers with the best ofthem. It just Madntosh is going to make my resume plain makes me more eflident in everything look better-in more ways than one. Ido. That frees me up for serious book NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00  

WASHINGTON (AP)-Senate Democrats proposed Thursday that the public finance nearly half the cost of Senate cam­paigns and that political action committees be prohibited from contributing directly to candi­dates. 
The revised campaign reform bill, which party leaders said they will bring to the Senate floor next week, retains spend­ing ceilings vehemently opposed by most Republicans but raises them about 20 percent above what Democrats had first pro­posed. 
Democratic leaders unveiled their package just two days after Republicans rushed out a counter proposal endorsed by 34 of the 45 GOP senators. 
Under the Democratic plan, about 70 percent of a candi­date's general election cam­paign expenses -but none of the costs for primary races ­would be paid by the govern­ment from funds raised through a proposed $3 checkoff on income tax returns. 
Since the middle 1970s, tax returns have included a check­off that allows taxpayers to designate $1 of their taxes to a fund for financing presidential campaigns. 
The new Democratic-pro­posed ceilings on Senate cam­paigns would range from $1.9 million in small states to slightly more than $10'million in the largest, California. Spon­sors said it would basically cut in half the amount now being spent. 
The GOP plan would abolish union and corporate PACs en­tirely and cut the amount that issue-oriented PACs can con­tribute to campaigns by 80 per­cent. But Republicans would leave unlimited the aggregate amounts that candidates and the two parties can raise from individual donors and spend on elections. 
"The only meaningful way to reform ... is to have limits on campaign spending," said Sen­ate Democratic Leader George Mitchell of Maine. "Anything less than that avoids the real issues and simply creates the illusion of reform." 
With revised proposals from both parties now on the table, the door is open for Mitchell, Republican Leader Bob Dole and their representatives to be­gin serious negotiations. 
"We still hope we can reach a bipartisan agreement," Mitchell said. "I hope we can engage in discussions in the very near fu­ture." 
Oklahoma Sen. Qavid Boren, the chief author of the Demo­cratic package, said he doesn't expect those talks to begin be­fore the bill is brought to the Senate floor Monday or Tues­day. 
. "Everything is negotiable from our point of view, except that we have to have some limit on overall spending, or that money will pop up in some other way," Boren said. 
The initial reaction from Re­publicans was disdain. 
"I can't believe this is a seri­ous proposal," said Kentucky Sen. Mitch McConnell, the chief author of the GOP measure. 

Friday, May 4, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
Latvia debates whether to declare independence from Soviet Union 
HIGA, U.S.S.B. lAP) Tlw Latvian Supremo Soviet, could not expect help from the Latvia's lngislaturn on Thurs­or legislaturo. debatf~d proce­West. day bngan dnbating whnther to dural questions. A vote on in­"The world. on account of 5 dnrlare indnpnndencn from thn dnpondence was likely Friday. million Baltic people, is not go­Soviet Union, nxhorted by Lawmakers from the separatist ing to risk what has been done Lithuanian Pn~sidnnt Vytautus People's Front predicted they in the area of arms control and Landsbnrgis to "be strong and could muster the two-thirds by Mikhail Gorbachev," he said. havn couragn." majority nend. In Washington. Lithuanian 
Landsbergis said he camn to There are 201 members of Prime Minister Kazimiera the nnighboring Baltic republic the Latvian Supreme Soviet. but Prunskiene said before a meet­"to bn with my brothnrs." lie only 197 will vote on indepen­ing with President Bush that said Latvians, if they movod dence because of four disputed her republic would be willing to morr. slowly than Lithuania on scats stemming from the March suspend independence measures tho path to secession, would be olection. A two-thirds majority opposed by Moscow if it had "trudging through a jungle." of 132 votes is needed to pass Western guarantees of support 
"I see and feel that Latvia the indepnndence measure. for its sovereignty. won't rntreat from tho prineiple A spoknswoman for the Peo­Lithuania is enduring a of indnpnndencc," Landsborgis ple's Front said Thursday the Kremlin economic embargo im­said in scparato romarks to measure is supported by more posed in response to its inde­l.atvian Hadio. than 140 deputies. pendence declaration. Officials 
Pro-and anti-indcpendonco Anatoly Gorbunov, who was of Landsbergis' government protnstnrs surrounded tho Lat­re-elected president of Latvia at said Thursday that shortages vian doputins as thny ontornd Thursday's session. backed in­were beginning to hit medical 
tlw parlianwnt building. dependence in a nomination supplies. 
About 50 Sovint Army officers spooch. Landsbergis told reporters he who livo in Latvia gathornd with "I boliove that the renewal of thought Latvians would eventu­signs proclaiming, "Tho Peopln a logally sovereign nation must ally achieve independence by a and tho Army are United," and be accomplished," he said, slower, "more dil'ficult" path "We Won't Go the Way of declaring it a "normal way of than Lithuania. lie said they Lithuania." lifn for all tho residents of were agonizing over their rela­
A fow stops away. pro-indn­Latvia." tionship with Moscow and ap­pnndnnel~ protostt~rs carried Gorbunov, a 48-year-old peared to be "trudging through hannnrs saying, "Thn Soviot former Communist Party func­a jungle." Army Must Go llomo," and tionary who has shown himself Because of Latvia's delicate "lndoporuloncn for Latvia." skillnd at negotiating with ethnic balance. the step could l'rott~stnrs earrind Sovint !lags Moscow, won 153 votes out of be less radical than Lithuania's or tlw rnd-and-whitc Latvian 196 east. declaration of independence llag. lie warnod that the re ublic March 11. 
Lithuanian prime minister appeals for recognition 
WASIIINGTON (APl "lie is, however, eoncernod Lithuanian Prime Minister with some of the complexi­Kazimiera Prunskiene ap-ties that surround this is­pealed to President Bush on sue." Thursday to formally rec­ognize her government's in­She said that what dependence from Moscow. Lithuania most needs -if it 
"I think he's going to see accepts a proposal made by how events unfold there and France and West Germany to he's going to take decisions slow the implementation of which are compatible with independence -arc interna­U.S., Soviet and Lithuanian tional guarantees that talks interests," she said. with Moscow will in fact lead 
Bush said at a news con­to independence. ference shortly before the 45-minute Oval Office meet­"President Bush's involve­ing that he sees no role for ment in this process would the United States as a me­bo very helpful," she said. diator between Lithuania Only time will tell whether and Mos·cow. her White House meeting 
But Prunskiene, speaking was productive, she said, at a reception as her long addi~~: "I h11ve not lost day of top-level meetings and hope. P'l'blic appeals drew to a White House spokesman close, said that her country­Marlin Fitzwater said Bush 
men expect more than that told Prunskiene to take baek from Bush. to Lithuania this message: "I am personally, and the 
"I made it clear to Presi­United States government. is dent Bush that the Lithua­committed to the self-de­nian nation is awaiting basic termination of the poople of support from him," she told Lithuania." an audience at the conserva­The White !louse has said tive Heritage Foundation. Prunskiene's visit was unoffi­
cial, but Fitzwater said Bush 

"I don't think the president was pleased to get a first­is at all indifferent to the hand account of the condi­Lithuanian cause," she said. tions in Lithuania. 
Thatcher's 

SEVEN TASTYWAYS 
TO IMPROVEA ~ 

~COLLEGE EDUCADON.-.· 



Mon. Thurs. 
It's a p1zza lover's dream come true. Every 
r··············--------,
r--~-----·-···---------, day this week, you can gel a special offer THICK THURSDAY
BEAT THE CLOCK 

from Domino's Pizza'" Whether it's free extra 
Present this coupon and receive Order 1 large original pizza with 1 medium pizza smothered in cheese 
crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's 1 toppi11Q between 4 and 7 PM more reasons to make this the week for a and pepperoni. and the time on the clock is the special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why 
price that you pay. PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00 
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, 
you'll see why this is the week you've been waiting for. 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 

Offer valid Monday's onlyl Offer valid Thursday's only! 
II. II.
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 
ltllod•l*t~lnQ .... oniJ Nol-..llld-"h...,.OI,... ..... Prcn....,.....,
""''W•~.,...-Qrlly Nc:I..W...,....,.III,..-., "'oc"....,_' ~ 
,.......,~ ............ ........,-.. c....-,.,.,......._IIIII!Pk.,.. -•.......,10_. .... 
~~­

~ Ouollf_..c....,lnst'-1-20.011 Owor._..,,..,.~no..,. ...
CALL US! 

or--; Ouldo-.c..rr.,... t,_uooo O..Or·-•-"'Op10'81LH0too ... 
....__ 0,..ao..-·, Plu•. lo>C 1tsblaTI 
........... 01-'*'-• ~,. lftc; 1/lbiCm 
·----------------------· 271-0300 ·----------------------· 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Tues. Fri. 
r·······-·-·········--·, r·······-·····---------,
TRIPLE TUESDAY DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 
Present this coupon and receive 2-12"Present this coupon and receive original pizzas with 2 toppings and 
3 small original cheese pizzas 
2 COKES for $11.49.
for $6.99. Additional toppings available at an additional charge. 
Offer valid Friday's only! 
Offer vaJ1d Tuesday's onlyl 

all 
DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90
OFFER EXPIRES' 6/30100 151 ' • 
Ml


.....,.. .. ..,,~..,...,..,. ...,....,...,.,.auw.,.. ,.,_...,_, PIZZA ~~~~ct·~-.............,.......,. ......... ,.._....., ..., 
c-~.-. ......~ 
o.•....,._....... IO..,_,... 
c.-,.,..-.~eo.._~ rw-..-......·--­
~ Our--..e.ny .... I!NnUO.OO OurDr·-·--~JIIOiot ..,.
DELIVERS.
llf--.1 OYI..._..~ .... INnUG.DilOut..-.--~-­
~ Otte~o-..o·,~ ~roc llsblcm 
.......,_ OI'MI ODMiroa'l ""*. ftc. 1llblcrn • 
FREE. 

·----------------------· -. . ·----------------------~ 
Weds. Sun. Sat. 
r············-···-····-, r·····················-, r···············-·-----, 
1 WILD WEDNESDAY I DOUBLE FEATURE : PARTY SPECIAL : 
Present this coupon and receive Present this coupon and receive 2-14"Present this coupon lnl receive oriQinal pizza!! with 2 toppings and 
1 small original pepperoni pizza 2 small original cheese pizzas 
for $2.99. Additional fojJplngs available 
for $5.29. 4 COKES for $12.99. at an additional charge. 
Offer valid Sunday's only! Offer valid Saturday"s onlyl Offer valid Wednesday's onlyl 
all 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 mm. OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/00 Ill. OFFER EXPIRES: 6130/00 


v.. ....................,. ... ~ .... ..., .......... ,.,._...., ..,
._..,................................................_,. ...... ~~--....... ,......,ftt!WIJIIIN!IIIfil;f p,_.,...,__.. 
~.......................... ~-.....10 ..._. .. .... (),or._qrf'f ...........o-......_ ... ,.........-.....,. Quo .,_..t:•'l' '""''-'120.00. Ovo Gr.-.-no. pen..,Nd 1r1r ,_ .......... Ow.._. cwry ....... DUIIl Out----...~..,. ... ....__ Ottll o-w-o·• Pit~. tnt:. 1Jsblcm ......_ o-DorM~H l"lu&.lllc. ''sblcm 
~......................... DIIIMrr_......._ .... ~~-... -.IIP(IIIc..,.. ~.... -........... ~_. .. 
...__ --o.rMoe'l ....... ­
()uJ driWn cat"fY leu INin 12'0.00 Ltmlled ~ .,... 

·----------------------· ·----------------------· ·----------------------· 01810 Domn>'t ptzu, tnc: 
~ 
conservatives lose elections 
LONDON (APJ -Prime Minis­
ter Margaret Thatchnr's Con­
sorvative Party lost heavily in 
local elections Thursday. and 
socialists posted their best per­
formance since she won power 
11 years ago. 
But the Consorvatives, in dnop trouble over the eeonorny and the imposition of an unpopular n1~w local governnwnt tax, averted the rout forecast in opinion polls, where Thatcher trails by nearly 20 points. 
"Not a marvellous result. hut certainly not the disaster that was being predicted," said En­vironment Soeretary Chris Pat­ten, the Cabirwt official in eharge of the new so-<"ailed poll tax. "It's thn massaere that didn't happPn." 
Tho Labor Party was jubilant. It was thn only party to make net gains and easily outstrippod its target of 200 new soats. 
With results declared from 180 of' tho 20 I councils. Labor had made 10 new gains to con­trol 89 eouneils. The Conserva­tives lost eight and had control of 36. 
The third-running centrist Social and Liberal Democratic Party controllod three councils and had lost throe. No party had overall control in the rest. 
About 5,000 seats were at stake. 
"We're delighted," said Labor campaign manager Bryan Gould . 
But he said the Tories' not doing as badly as predicted would lessen pressure by some worried Conservatives to try to shed Thatcher as leader. "If so, the Tories ~ill be making a mistake," he added. 
For the first time since Thatcher won power in 1979, Laborites made significant gains in the Tory heartlands of the prosperous south. 
Labor seized control from the Tories of the south England port of Portsmouth and for the first time in nearly 20 years, Laborites won seats in nearby 
Thatcher's Conservatives Lose Heavily in British Local Elec­tions 

.~----------------------------­
~------....._....------~---~---_,____ 
. ~-~-...------~­

page 10 The Observer Friday, May 4, 1990 
Iranian president says U.S. acted like 'spoiled, frustrated child' 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran said Thursday the groups holding hostages in Le­banon released two Americans at Iran's prodding, but that the United States was still acting like a spoiled child. 
He also said Iran is not restoring diplomatic ties with the United States. 
Robert Polhill, 55, of New York, was freed April 22 and eight days later a second U.S. educator held hostage, Frank Reed, 57, of Malden, Mass., was freed. 
Rafsanjani said the kidnap­pers released the two "at our suggestion. They could have ... rejected our advice. But they accepted our advice." 
In his speech to a group of teachers in Tehran, Iran's capi­tal, Rafsanjani compared the 
U.S. response to that of "a stubborn, frustrated child." 
The speech was carried by Tehran Radio and monitored in Nicosia. 
President Bush told a news conference in Washington Thursday he was cheered by the release of Polhill and Reed, but was unwilling to make any con­ciliatory gestures toward Iran at this time. 
Bush has repeatedly declared he will not negotiate with Iran or the Lebanese Shiite Moslem kidnappers for the release of hostages. 
But he did promise to help Iran get details on the fate of four Iranian diplomats kid­napped in Lebanon in 1982, calling. it a goodwill gesture and not an attempt to bargain for U.S. hostages. 
"This is something they feel very strongly about," Bush 

Construction completed 
Under construction since the summer of 1989, the new ROTC building is near completion and will be ready for operations in the fall. The old ROTC building will be occupied by the Notre Dame Security. 



Fire races through Everglades 
MIAMI (AP) -A 4-mile-wide 
brush fire raced through bone­
dry Everglades sawgrass 
Thursday, jumping a canal and 
threatening 150,000 acres of a 
wildlife preserve. 
"We're in big trouble, it jumped a levy 50 feet wide," said state ranger Gene Dempsey. "There's nothing slowing it down -there's no water holes, no breaks." 
The fire, driven westward by 15 mph winds and fueled by sawgrass parched by Florida's two-year drought, had spread to 24,000 acres, or more than 37 square miles, by early after­noon. 
The fire northwest of Miami did not threaten any inhabited areas. By jumping the canal, the blaze moved into the Ever­glades wildlife management area and headed toward the Big Cypress National Preserve. 
"Our main hope was to stop it there," Dempsey said. "The next canal is about 12 miles away." 
The wildfire was one of three burning around Miami. A 10,000-acre fire in Everglades National Park southwest of Mi­ami remained active Thursday, although park spokeswoman Pat Tolle said a federal fire­fighting team from Asheville, 
N.C. seemed to be containing it successfully. 
Seminole Indian firefighters were trying to control a smaller blaze on their reservation in Broward County, said Dempsey. So far they did not need state help. 
said. "They've mentioned it to us several different times." 
Sixteen Westerners, including six Americans, are missing in Lebanon. Most are believed held by groups controlled by Hezbollah, the Iranian-financed Party of God. Longest held is Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent of The As­sociated Press, kidnapped March 16, 1985. 
In London, Prime .Minister Margaret Thatcher on Thurs­day welcomed Syria's and Iran's role in gaining freedom for Polhill and Reed, but said Britain will not deal with hostage-takers. 
She is under pressure to se­cure the r·elease of British hostages in Lebanon. Three Britons and an Irishman with dual British and Irish citizen­ship are held, including Terry Waite, special envoy of Arch­bishop of Canterbury Robert Runcie. 
Rafsanjani said Thursday that "an angry, revolutionary, enraged group, after it released one hostage without pre-condi­tions. 

Former hostage beaten after escape attempt 
ROSTON (AP) -Former hostage Frank Reed was severely beaten after an escape attempt and was told his mother had died even though she's still living, his daughter said Thursday. 
"He didn't know she was alive until he was released," said Marilyn Langston. "We were able to tell him she was very much alive." 
Reed's mother, 91-year-old Leota Sprague, shares an apartment in the suburb of Malden with Reed's wife, Fahima, and the couple's 9­year-old son, Tarek. 
Langston said she was told Thursday by a State Depart­ment spokesman that doctors had decided Reed, who is weak after 42 months in captivity, should undergo further medical tests. 
Frances Jones, a spokeswoman for the State De­partment's Bureau of Consular Affairs, said Reed would be flown to Andrews Air Force Basf~ Friday, then probably to Walter Heed Army Medical Cen­ter, where former hostage Robert Polhill was taken aftPr being released April 22. 
Jones said it was unelear how long Heed would stay in Wash­ington befon~ continuing to Massachusetts. 
Langston, who also Jives in Malden. said she would fly to Washington on Friday to meet her father. 
In a telephone call Wednes­day, Heed told Langston he had tried to nscape. 
"lie told me he'd been beaten. lie did try to escape and they'd bnaten him very badly," Langston said in a telephone in­terview from her home. 
She said Reed was denied medical attention for his wounds and is still recovering from them. 

Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Air-, sea-launched weapons offset cuts in land-based, analysts say 
WASJIINGTON lAP) -The United States is developing air­and sea-launched nuelear wflapons that would more than offset the loss of fi rflpower re­sulting from President Bush's cancellation of two land-based nuclear systems in Europe, analysts said Thursday. 
Earlier in the day, Bush offi­cially scrapped plans to field a nnw. more powerful version of the Lance missile and a mod­ernized 155 mm nudear-tipped artillery shell. The decision had b1wn widely anticipated, even though Bush strenuously ar­gued for thosn weapons last year. West Germany and other NATO allies opposed the weapons. 
Bush made no mention of the other nuclear weapons already in the pipeline for European deploymnnt. Private arms nx­perts say these other weapons, some of which already arn in 
Europe,  havfl  mt>re  military  
worth  than  either  of  the  
earH~eled systems.  

The tradeoff is like "trading 
two handguns for an assault ri­fle," said Daniel Plesch, direc­tor of the British American Se­curity Information Council, a private arms group. 
Already in the American nu­clear arsenal in Europe are an estimated 1,400 free-fall bombs carried by the F-111 and other European-based aircraft; about 1,200 artillery shells; 200 anti­
submarine  depth  bombs  and  
700 aging Lance missiles.  
The  most  important  new  

weapon earmarked for Euro­pean deployment is an air-to­surface nuclear missile that could be carried on the Ameri­can F-16 fighters based in Eu­rope and the new F-15E nuclear strike aircraft now in production. 
The leading candidate for an air-to-surface missile is the Short-Hange Attack Missile­Tactical. which the Air Force is reported to be developing. It would have a range of about 250 miles. 
William Arkin, an arms ex­pert with the environmental group Greenpeace U.S.A., said the Air Force wants to start deploying about 300 of the the air-to-surface missile in Europe by 1995. 
The advantage of an air-to­surface missile is that it would give the air forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization the capability, in the event of a nuclear war, to "stand off" from the battlefront and still hit Soviet territory. 
The United States now has no air-to-surface nuclear missiles in Europe. Britain and Prance are reportedly cooperating to develop their own missiles of this type. 
The now-canceled Lance mis­sile, which was to replace an existing arsenal of 700 aging Lance missiles, would POt have been capable of reaching Soviet territory. 
Bush did not say he would withdraw any of the existing Lances, and Plesch said it was possible that NATO could agree to refurbish them to extend their useful lives. 
THIS 


~'~-" coLLect Your college diploma can be worth an easy $500 to you with the purchase of anew ~~ iT IS c-e, Mercury. Your local lincoln-Mercury Dealer can take care of the financing arrange­~..~ ~ ments through Ford Credit. To receive $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company.2"' ~ ~·.. all you have to do is take delivery of any new Mercury from dealer stock by 
vf'"""~sE rRd.)~'(-December 31. 1990. or place afactory order by October 1. 1990 a~d graduate with 
abachelor's or advanced degree by December 31. 1990 from an accred1ted 4-year college 
or university. Select from Mercury Topaz, Cougar. Sable. Grand Marquis or beginning this 
summer. the new 1991 Mercury Tracer. You may even be able to use your $500 toward your 
down payment. So pick the Mercury that best fits your new life-style. and get $500 cash back. 
See your lincoln-Mercury Dealer today! 
To qutilly '" f01d C!od1t p10!pp10ved ~edit. qualified buyen must bm verifiable employment beginmng wimM 116 days of venide pUidlasa. YoUI solary must be tulfio101 to "'" hvmg upenses 11 wall 11 '" p1ymen1. Apn01 c11dit hist01y 11n"! nacan11v. but if you have one. it must indiCate payments made es ag10ed. 
COMING THIS SUMMER-1991 MERCURY TRACER! 
SEE YOUR LINCOLN­MERCURY DEALER. 
u.s. ·-plans for land-based nuclear weapons scrapp 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Bush scrapped plans Thursday for newer and more powerful battle· 
.field nuclear weapons in Eu­rope and called for a NATO summit to rewrite political and military strategy for "a new era in history." 
"As democracy comes to Eastern Europe and Soviet Jr9ops return home, th~re is need for nuclear systems 
the shortest range," Bush said. !! His decision, canceling modernization of the Lance missile, amounted to a 
t'recognltion of political real­ities both in Europe and in 
{:o))gr~fi!s,. 
•iiJ' West Germany, where most · of the new weapons would be based, had fiercely opposed the deployment since the warheads would be targeted 
....... on their countrymen in East ·;;::,,Germany. ··,;,,. Congress, doubting that 
·the new missiles would ever be installed, had balked at Bush's request for $112 mil­lion for modernization. 

STUDENTS SAVE 10% 
AND Lars OF TIME-Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 

==BDXES/Xl/5.== 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 

MOV!NG & S10HAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES 8.: BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THS 
COUPON AT THE TIME OF 
PURCHASE OR Stii'PIIIG 

IVISA). 277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 

"TWO lHUMBS UP:' 
-SISKEL & EBERT 
" 
•••electrify.•119···
"****
-Kathleen Carroll, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 


Notn. o...., C~lon ..... ThelltN 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
Bush made his announce­
ment at a wide-ranging news conferenee during which he also said "I sometimes do worry" that military hard· liners in the Soviet Union might oust President Mikhail · Gorbachev and try to reverse democratic reforms in East­
em Europe. 
It was Bush's most direct 
statement ever about Gor­
bachev's grip on power. 
Bush said Gorbachev is 
under "extraordinary pres-. 
sure" at home because of 
unrest over Lithuania's drive 
for independenee and the 
ailing Soviet economy. 
In a lighter moment, Bush defended his wife Barbara against complaints by Wellesley College students who oppose her as their graduation speaker. 
He said the students may be right in saying her recognition comes from his success. but deelared "these young women can have a lot to learn from Barbara Bush" anyway. 


THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! , 
FOURTH ANNUAL 
Student Appreciatio.n Sale 
10°/o Off Your Purchases* 
MAY 4, 1990 Just Show Your I.D. Card 
Ir----------------~------------------r-----------------i
MEN'S I ZIP-DEE WEBER I I BIKE I LAWN CHAIR OUTDOOR GRILL I 
I I I I I 
I I 
I I I I Name 1 Name Name I Address I Address Addt'f:Sfll I 
~ IPh I
I one Phone 1 
I I I I 
I I
~----------------~------------------~-----------------·
i MOBILITE I WAGON I STUDENT DRAWING I FLOOR LAMP I I TABLE 
1 I I
11
1 Register to Win
1 1
1 1 a Register to Win
11
1 I Radio Ayer Wagon 1 a Drawing Table I I Town and Country I jrrame 1Name 1Name._____ 
Address . I Address 1 Address _____
1

1 Phone IPhone . I Phone_____ 
L----------------~------------------~-----------------1 
THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
*NOT APPLICABLE TO -TEXTBOOKS, CASSETTES, CD'S, FILM, FILM PROCESSING & HEALTH AND BEAU1Y AIDS. 
Viewpoint
Friday, May 4, 1990 
a e 13 

,-Ihe ObserYer___ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-lll-<:hlaf 
Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bualn... Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
Newa Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advartlalng Manager ......... Beth Bolger VI-point Editor •••••••••••••.•Michelle Dall Ad O..lgn Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sporta Editor ....••.••••••••••••••Greg Gulley Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accant Edltor.••...••••.•••••.Colleen Cronin Syatama Mgr .... Bernard Brennlnkmeyer Photo Editor ••••••••••••••••••.•••••.Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'a Editor........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlractor .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

LETTERS 
Tyson bids students fond farewell 
/)ear Hdilor: light of true friendship and ser­I made perpetual vows in the 
I should like to take this op­vice. Dip deep into your heart Congregation of Holy Cross be­portunity to extend my best to review your faith and the cause of the deep dedication of wishns to thn studnnt body as place of God in your life. its members to education. As I· we nnd the 1989-90 academic Finally, I should like to bid a have shared in the mission of ynar. The break is close, and all fond farewell to all of you as I Holy Cross at Notre Dame, I of us look forward to the prepare to begin a new ministry look with enthusiasm to shar­change of pace that summer at the University of Portland. I ing that same mission at the brings. am very blessed to have been a University of Portland. 
Hegardless of your summer student, a faculty member, a plans, I should like to urgn you hall staff member and a vice 
Know of my continued good to take some time to renect president at this special place. wishes and prayers for all of upon this past year. Question My fondest memories will be of you. yours1~lf as to the meaning of the interaction I have had with your education at Notre Dame students. It is a privilege to at this juncture in time. Be will­play a role in the growth of David T. Tyson, C.S.C. ing to confront your failures as young people. I am thankful to Vice President a source of future growth. have had that privilege at Notre Student Affairs Examine your relationships in Dame. April 30, 1990 

/)ear Hditor: 
events and projects outside the do during your time in college
The ending of the school year 
classroom which particularly fits together: the studying, vol­
never ehanges. In what seems 
stand out for individual stu­unteering, worshipping and 
like an instant, the anxiety and 
dents as well as for the College. recreation. It is in that integra­
tension of those last weeks are 
tion of experienee and knowl­
transformed into anticipation As the weeks pass, and you 
edge that true learning and 
and rnlief. Before I know it, the find the time to think back on 
growth oecurs. eampus is empty and the cere­your year, I hope that you will monies and eelebrations are renect on those experiences With the faculty and staff of over. As Saint Mary's students whieh have brought you closer Saint Mary's, I wish you a safe pn~pare to rush home, I wei­to an awareness of your goals, and happy summer. We'll look corm~ this moment of your limP. values and beliefs. You will un­forward to seeing you in to wish you well. doubtedly find that what you August. have read, studied and written The 1989-90 aeademk year about during the past nine has providP.d Saint Mary's stu­months will begin to mean dents with much to remember more when you have the time to William A. 1/ickey thoughtfully and fondly during look at the "big picture." President the eoming months and years. Take that time, that opportu­Saint Mary's College As in each ·year, there are nity, to look at how all that you May 3, 1990 
DOONESBURY 

IT 15 NOlA/ MY PRJVILB3& TO fJWI{AT& "SC/i?EAM!N6 fA61.£
OTI'ZENS OF PANAMA! fiJfiJrT 

85TATe5" 70TH& MEMORY OF
Y()) ft4Ve 8UI/.,T HeRe 15 

YCXJR fOUN[JING FATHeRS­
MJTHING 5HOI<T OF f74NTA5fl{,! 

TH/3 82NOAJ/?JJORN&! CH£EIIS!
fRIJM TH~ IJI5CA/?all5HflWfl3 YaJ HAV~ fi4'3HIONW YOI..F.. \ / OWN 5At.VATION! 
Report on sexuality makes unfair statements about campus groups 
Dear Editor: maintain a publie stance on the 
We, Women United for Justiee ordination of women, some of and Peace, would like to elarify our members hold personal the misleading statements eon­views on the issue. Does anyone cerning our group as presented who questions the Catholic in "Report recommends change Church qualify as non-Catholic? in parietals" (The Observer, Is there room for dissent in the May 2). The article stated that Church? We sincerely hope Women United for Justice and there is and believe that, by Peace was recognized by the embracing a plurality of views, University to uphold beliefs we begin our long journeys to­"contrary to Catholicism." No ward truth. explanation of why our group was deemed as such followed Dedicated to reeognizing the this statement. Researching full dignity of all persons, this question, we discovered Women United for Justiee and that the Report on Sexuality Peace upholds a call to witness, complied by Student action, renection and educa­Government contained state­tion. We understand our vision ments assuming that Women as one that accords with United for Justice and Peace Christ's message to seek justiee maintained a stanee on through com passion. women's ordination; however, no one in our group was even asked if we had a stanee. We do Mary Abowd not. The Report on Sexuality Missy 1/olland based its information coneern-Mary."lue Twohy ing our group, therefore, on Women United for assumptions and stereotypes. Justice and Peace 
Although our group docs not May 3, 1990 
ND wishes students well 
Dear Editor: faculty will be busy over the 
I want to wish all returning Summer preparing to resume students well at the completion their responsibilities in the Fall. of another aeademie year. I am sure that the upcoming As you return home, be sure Summer will pass quiekly and to speak words of thanks to soon you will be looking for­your parents and everyone else ward to returning to the cam­who provides support for you pus. May the Summer provide while you are at Notrn Dame. you with sufficient opportunity All the best to you and may God for both work and leisure in keep you from harm in the order to get a perspective on coming months. your life here. I hope that you come to appreciate even more Ed "Monk" Malloy, C.",'C the friendships you have devel­President oped. I assure you that the May 1. 1990 
The Observer staff would like to wish the student body good luck on finals and a safe and happy summer. See you next year. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Home is where the heart can laugh without shyness. Home is where the heart's tears can dry at 
their own pace.' 
Vernon G. Baker 

p~ge 14 The O~s~rv 
'1'1 IE: YEAR
The ~------­
-~~-vt:£ -····-···· 

The Top Ten Nevvs Stories for 1989 90 
1 ;:~~~~~~y~~ d~~:~by an 
explosive fire in the early morning hours on 
Halls were evacuated, but no one was injured. The laundry 
facility was built in 1933 and a new facility will be built be­
hind the Notre Dame Credit Union by 1991. 
Tyson suspends hall funds 
As a result of the damage by the annual snowball fight, Father David Tyson suspended $20,000 in hall matching funds on October 24. After a student 
2 sit-in at the Office of Student Affairs and coaxing by Student Government leaders, the funds were partially restored . 
The *'server 

November 16. Nearby Brownson and Lewis 


 The Observer NO student & prof's husband killed in accident ,._ ... ·······:.:.:.::' ...  
3 LaFortune Student Center was burglarized A burglar(s) entered LaFortune and damaged rooms on every floor of the building on November 30. The offender(s) took no money, but did more than $7,000 in damages to the building.  4 Rape reported by a Saint Mary's student An anonymous caller reported a rape on Saint Mary's road on April 27. Also in the spring, was an attempted rape of a SMC student, an attack on an NO student and an assault of a SMC student.  

The Observer ­... After 27 years in prison, Mandala is released •A•, ,,..,...,_. -¥  
 
7 Controversy clouds student elections The ticket of Sanchez/Smith was told by the Student Senate to remove. table tents promoting their ticket from the dining halls in the days preceding the election.  Students learn how to DART 8 Students registered for their spring semester classes using a new on­line telephone registration system. At first DART caused :30me confusion for students and department heads, but by the time the campus was ready to re ister for the fall semester it was eas .  


page 15 


····~~···
IN REVIE 
The Top Ten Sports 



Stories for 1989 90 Miami beats ND, 27-10 
The Hurricanes used several big plays to defeat the Irish in what later amounted to the national 
1championship contest. The Miami victory ended Notre Dame's 23-game winning streak. Both Miami and Notre Dame lost just once during the season, but the· Hurricanes won the mythical national championship after downing Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. 
2 ~~dS:~re~~m:.~e~~~i!e-year
contract in February that will allow the network to 
show all Irish home football games beginning in 1991. The move drew considerable protest among members of theCFA. 

4 
Dennis Grace exits 
as soccer coach The Notre Dame Athletic Department shocked many when it decided not to renew the contract of Grace, who posted a 76-38­14 record in six years as men's head coach, including the team's only NCAA Tournament bid in 1988. 





•· 

--------~----~----------------~~-~--------~----­
Accent 
Friday, May 4, 1990
page 16 

Mexicans honor victory in battle with France on 
cipco. de mayo 
MANUEL ESPINO spired more than a century, a accent writer score, and nine years ago often are forgotten in the midst of 
Contrary to popular belief, celebration. cinco de mayo (5th of May) is Shortly after a civil war, not Mexican Independence Day, known as the War of the Re­but rather it is a celebration of form, in the late 1850s, Benito a victory at the Battle of Puebla Juarez of the Liberal party was on May 5, 1862. On this day, elected president. Along with much like dieciseis de septiem­his office came an over-80 mil­bre (Mexican Independence lion peso foreign debt of three Day), celebr:ations are held years. On June 17, 1861, all throughout the United States payments on the national debt and parts of Mexico, for in were suspended by the govern­Mexico dieciseis de septiembre ment. 
A Mexican flag, guarded on all sides by colonial administration buildings, waves proudly in the middle of the 
is more widely celebrated. This caused a great deal of 
main square of Mexico City. To defend this flag's right to wave, a Mexican army defeated French invaders at
In my hometown (Fort discord with their debtors, and 
the Battle of Puebla. This battle is remembered each year on cinco de mayo. 
Worth, Texas) and in many in late 1861, a joint British, other regions with a consider­Spanish, and French expedi­Yet, through negotiations, it French moved forward to Alas, France's intervention in able Hispanic contingency, a tionary landed on the Port of became evident that the French Puebla in May 1862, attempting Mexico ended with the execu­carnival is held every year. Veracruz to obtain a debt set­did not want to settle the debt, to seize Fort Guadalupe and tion of Maximilian, emperor of There are bands playing Mexi­tlement from Mexico. for it had always been the em­Fort Loreto. However, under Mexico, on May 15, 1867. can and Tex-Mex music, Mexi­Mexico owed the British 70 peror's secret desire to create a the leadership of General Igna­
can food being sold, teenage million pesos; the Spanish, 9.5 French protectorate in the New cio Zaragoza, the Mexican Thus, cinco de mayo is more girls competing for the honor million pesos; and the French, World. In April 1862, the Bri­army was able to force the than a time to delight in the ·of cinco de mayo queen, politi­only a small amount. However, tish and Spanish withdrew, French to retreat. Thrice the food, culture, music, and tradi­cians speaking, and overall, under the rule of Napoleon III, while the French sought to French were unsuccessful in tion that is Mexico. It is also a people having fun. France demanded that Mexico move towards the interior. their attempts to take Fort time to reflect on the courage 
Cinco de mayo is the perfect pay back the 2.5 million pesos Guadalupe. and good fortune displayed by
time for people to learn about for some imaginary property Under the leadership of Count Zaragoza and his men. Had the the Mexican and Mexican­damages and 12 million pesos Lorencez, who with 6,000 sol­The Battle of Puebla gave the Battle of Puebla been lost, so American culture. However, in repayment of a 70,000 peso diers, thought he could easily Mexicans the much-needed con­too would have Mexico to the the historic events that tran-loan to the former government. defeat the Mexican army, the fidence to fend off the French. French. 
Finding God at the far side of a child's garden of verses 
According to Prince Malinsky, a Russian refugee, there once was a man named Ivan Ivanovitch who, in a mood of  Father Robert Griffin  lievers is a projection of them­selves. That is why so much of our religion is shallow and lacks nourishment.  In dedication, Saint-Ex wrote "I ask the indulgence of the children who may read this book for dedicating to a  
despair, decided to sell his soul to the devil. Ivan sends the  Letters to a Lonely God  Perhaps it's to his credit that the Little Prince is a "petit bon­ grown-up... this grown-up un­derstands everything, even  
Prince of Darkness a letter, in  homme solitaire," almost  books about children... I will  
which he makes an offer, and a  cry  "prim us inter pares" of the  dedicate the book to the child  
few days later, he gets a reply:  frightened, ran to the peasant  it." Christ reminded us of the  "solitary little fellows too soon  from whom this grown-up  
the devil will be waiting for him  Marey, who was plowing in a  importance of seeing the baf­ deprived of God at an age when  grew..."  
at a designated time on a des­ nearby field. Marey comforts  fling mysteries of the universe  one still seeks refuge, and left  Of the grown-up to whom the  
ignated night at a place called  him and sends him home.  through a child's eyes. Once you  to struggle with life." He owns  book was dedicated, Saint-Ex  
Bald Mountain, where witches  '"There is a wolfl' I cried  add an adult's understanding to  a tiny planet with a single rose,  wrote "The presence of a  
hold their Sabbaths.  panting... 'Where is the wolf?'  the child's way of seeing things,  one sheep and three volcanoes,  friend, who in appearance is  
When Ivan goes to keep the  ... 'A shout. .. someone  you will not have trouble figur­ one of them extinct. That must  far removed, can prove denser  
appointment, he looks all over the haunted peak without find­ing any trace of the archenemy  shouted "Wolf" I faltered ... 'Nonsense, nonsense! A wolf! How could there be a wolf!-­ ing out the peasant Marey as a Christ-figure, or the devil's making an appearance as an  be an advantage. Still, in a universe haunted by solitude, this lonely child is an  that a real presence. As dense as a prayer." That's why the Little Prince can promise that  
of souls. Finally, he spies a bearded patriarch sitting  why you have had a fright. .. Come, little one, Christ be with  angel of light. Anytime I hear stories of God,  orphan. The loneliness was an aid to his innocence, for the  when he's back home on his planet "You--you alone (that is,  
peacefully on a tree stump.  you! Cross yourself.'  or of His enemies' list, other  adults couldn't program him to  the aviator he has met in the  
Though he's surprised to find a  "I grasped at last that there  words of Saint-Exupery, who  be a prophet. Child prophets  desert]--have the stars as no  
holy man in this wild, terrible  was no wolf, and that the shout  wrote "The Little Prince,'' come  can be such a bore, for their in­ one else has them....  
place, Ivan summons up the  that I had heard was my fancy  to mind. "I would like to have  sights are about as sponta­ "In one of the stars I shall be  
courage· to ask him for help:  ... 'I will go then,' I said ... Til  discovered in the universe the  neous as a Punch-and-Judy  living. In one of them I shall be  
"Have you seen anyone hanging  keep a watch on you as you go.  trace of the divine mantle; and  show, well-rehearsed.  laughing. And so it will be as if  
around here tonight?" "Why?" answers the patri­ I won't let the wolf get you ... Christ be with you!' And he  touching a truth outside of me like a god who has long hidden  The Little Prince is not simply the child Saint-Ex would like to  all the stars were laughing, when you look at the sky at  
arch. "Are you expecting some­ made the sign of the cross over  himself from men, I would like  have fathered; he's Saint-Ex as  night. ... You--only you--will  
one?" "As a matter of fact," says  me and then over himself... "Mterwards, I never even  to have gripped him by the hem of his coat and to have torn the  a child. The "petit bonhomme" had been appearing for years in  have stars that can laugh."  
Ivan, 'Tm expecting company." "Not the devil, by any chance?" asks the holy man. "How did you know?" "Because I am the devil," replies the holy man. "Why do you look so surprised?" "I expected the devil to have a different appearance," stam­mers Ivan. The patriarch exclaims with a chuckle "Don't you realize all the press notices I have re­ceived were put out by my ene­mies?" Dostoyevsky gave us the story of a prisoner interned in a prison camp in Siberia. As a way of escaping from his grim, violent surroundings, the pris­oner starts to reflect on his past life. The memory of an August day, when he was a child, comes to mind. He recalls a hallucination in which he  spoke to him about the wolf or anything else, and all at once now, twenty years afterwards in Siberia, I remember this meeting with such distinctness. .. I remember the soft motherly smile of the poor serf, the way he signed me with the cross... if I had been his own son, he could not have looked at me with eyes shining with greater love. "And what made him like that? He was our serf, and I was his little master.... It was a solitary meeting in the de­serted fields, and only God, · perhaps, may have seen from above with what deep feeling and delicate tenderness the heart of a coarse, brutally ig­norant Russian serf may be filled..." Saint-Exupery wrote: "All grown-ups were once children-­ veil from his face, to lay it bare. But it would not have been given to me to discover anyone other than myself." For Saint-Exupery, God is simply "deus absconditus," a god who hides his face, the great silent one whom the mys­tics refer to as "the silent wilderness that is God." I'm too old to remember how God appears to the mind of the child whom Christ wants me to become like, but I think that as a child, I understood that adults have their space. This is especially so with God, who stood so close, I thought, I could feel His breath. But I was never tempted to make Him as small as myself. Only adults are tempted to make God in their own image. Often, the God we hear about from preachers and other be- countless drawings. Intrigued by Saint-Ex's doodling on the white tablecloth while at lunch in a New York restaurant, the publisher, whose guest he was, asked him what he was draw­ing. "Just a little fellow I carry around in my heart," Saint-Ex replied. The publisher looked closely at the little fellow and got an idea: "What would you think of making up a story about your imaginary Antoine, for a chil­dren's book?" The Little Prince echoes, among other "matters of im­portance" dear to Saint-Ex's heart, the importance of love, without which one is blind, as expressed in the desert fox's secret: "One sees only with the heart. The essential is invisible to the eye."  The Little Prince comes close to being E.T., the Extra-Terres­trial. Like E.T., he goes home to one of the trillion stars out in space. The way back to the lost childhood has always been through a child's garden of verses--as Robert Louis Steven­son, or E.T. or the Little Prince can show you, NOW THAT YOU'RE AN ADULT, for whom the stories of God have mean­ing. A trip to the far side of the garden and back could clear your head of the looney-tunes that you've been clinging to as a religion, like the preachers whose guardian angels have lost sight of God's face. Happy summer! Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you!  
·•  


Friday, May 4, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
The Observer accepts clas~fieds every business day from 10 a.ln. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint. Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifi~s is _3 p.m. All ctass1f1eds must be 
prepaid. The_ charge is 2 cents per character per day, mclud1ng spaces.
Classifieds 
QUALITY PING PONG TABLE 

LOST: dropped a single key 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE CALL 233-1320(429)somewhere near St. Mary's 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 
NOTICES FORSALE 1 
Witnesses

Lake or Holy Cross last week. $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT PLEASE call x4897 if you picked it 232-3616. 
1987 DODGE CARAVAN LE. ENTIRE ROOM­
UPS ON CAMPUS 37,000 MILES, EXCELLENT 
Wanted
up. 

EVERYTHING MUST GO!! 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER CONDITION, NC, AUTOMATIC,
Turtle Creek Apt 

GIANT 10FT
239·6174 LAFORTUNE EXTRAS. $10,700 OR BEST 
On the night

LOST: Gold watch. Lost on furnished/summer CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH-MUST 
OFFER. CALL JACKIE 239-7308 WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! OR 259-0584 AFTER 6 PM. 
Monday . April 30th. Has much Matt x3549 SEE! ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 
before the 

sentimental value. Reward if 
ANDY OR GREG. 
$100 FREE INSURANCE 
found. Call Lisa at x4838. 2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. 
Southern Cal 
18144E STONERIDGE INAVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272­

DINING ROOM SET; EXCELLENT 
football game 

Discounts Available WOODBRIDGE CONDO (north of 
LOST: Gold Chain Sat. between 6306 COND. $45 :SMALL DESK $20 OR toll road off Ironwood) $41 ,900.
the An Tostal picnic and the Blue 
last October, 

BEST OFFER. KEVIN 256-2927 
"MOVING OFF-CAMPUS'' One bedroom, 776 square feet, 
and Gold Game. Extreme SUMMER RENTAL. House or
Need Furniture (beds. tables. built in 1972. Association fee $68 a 
Notre Dame 

Sentimental Value Rooms.Near campus.272-6306 
Furniture: A whole apartment 
desks, couch, etc... ), then call 272-month.
REWARD!! call Kelly 284-5464 full of CHEAP goods. Must go 6117. Alllurniture must be sold I 
student

NEAR ND: Clean and comfortable this week. Call Tom anytime 
So CALL NOWI ZENITH 19"" REMOTE COLOR 
turn. apts: 755 South Bend 
Zhengde Wang 

234-7083 
TV CALL 233-1320Ave'efficiency-$225:'1 bdrm-$265

WANTED 
I

TYPING term 
was hit by a car

dep. ,references 616-483-9572 LOVELY HOME -Near ND . 3+br,
papers/reports/letters/resumes 1983 MERCURY LYNX 
$69,900, 287 9341/239 5080 
on Notre Dame 

Pick up & delivery available. 58,000 MILES 
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE Party Off Campus
277-5134 Cathy 2DOOR5-DR.
any weekend-ext 1938 Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand 
Avenue near

1978VW 
$1450 (ACCEPT OFFER) V-ball court, washer/ EXCELLENT CONDITION 

Need term papers or resumes 239-7009/272-2985. 
the cemetary.

BOXES TO SHIP HOME FOR dryer, safe. Bruce : 
61,000 MILES, NC
typed? Call Joanne 287-6005 YOU. 
234-3831 or 288-5653 
We are looking

272-1134. 
FOR SALE: ROCHESTER CLUB will have a Tan, brown, rust tweed pull-out UPS ON CAMPUS DAILY 
for witnesses to 

Two Bedr Condo 2Baths, Lg For Sale: 2 Lofts $35 ea. 2 sm.
baggage truck going home. couch. Excellent condition. Bunk
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER rooms,pool,great for Grads couches $20 & $30. Table & lamp 
the accident.

A not1ce will be sent in the style loft--only used 1 year. Call
LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
232-3972. 

$5 ea., Pale Green Rug fits double 
mail soon. Call2288 if you Anne at 277-9281 and leave 
239-6714 
Please call

or quad. Call 3442. Remember
have ?'s. message. MUST SELL!!!!!!!! 
WE TAPE I WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
LARGE 5 BR HOUSE 2 BATHS Furniture is hard to find in the fall. 
Mark Phillipoff

Discounts available 1112 KITCHENS WET BAR INWORDPROCESSING BASEMENT. NEAR ST. JOE Tan carpet for sale. Call x2156. 
at 233-1194

272-1837 CHEAPICHEAPICHEAP!CHEAP!
10 Speed bike.272-6306 
HOSP. $480 MO. 9M LEASE 271­
Must sell! 
Do you need a flight to0373

$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! Providence, R.l??? The plane 
Looking for a triple loft, 'U' shaped, LEAVE USA, MUST SELL 1986 
PANDORA'S BOOKS leaves monday, may 22. If
to fit a room of a two-room triple. 
SUMMER RENTER NEEDED VW GOLF. 55,000 Ml, $4000. 239­
Corner of NO ave and Howard interested, call Kris x2735. 
Call X4067 or X4081 
Luxurious Indian Springs Apts .........................
7385 OR 272-6968. 3-bdrm townhouse. wshridryr
233-2342 
I PERSONALS 

ARE YOU GOING TO AMERICAN in aptmt, dshwshr, central AC, PIONEER VSX3300 rec. $260 &
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS For sale: large bar and refrigerator 
UNIV. OR JUST MOVING TO D.C. 
$165/mo. 232-5571. 

BARekfast set $50 Sean 2011
SUMMER? Jet there from (which fits into bar) Can buy spunk lords rule 
IN AUGUST? LOOKING FOR A Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for together or separately. Excellent
ROOMMATE? ME TOOl CALL Turtlecreek 2 Bd Apt. 
1940 GREENOCK IN GARDEN
no more than $229. or from the condition. If interested call 271-BONITA
271-9858 Sublease starts 6/1/90 

QUARTERS OF SCOTISDALE 2~'1 Now x2265 or x1469
East Coast for no more than $160 0032. HOOLIE 
SUBDIVISION (off Ireland) 
with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in LALISA
Share driving ONLY to Bedford, NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer 1985 OLDS FIRENZA $2300 Hey there you hot women! Just 
$40,000. Two bedroom, 864 VA, or en route 5/10 or 11call A~ attractive studio in lovely old square feet, built in 1976.
Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) OBO. AM/FM CASETIE 35 MPG wanted to say thank you for all the 
Patty, 1675. 

mansion near Notre Dame Association fee $55 a month.
212-864-2000. . CALL 256-5060 OR 259-0~~o:; letters, pictures, and postcards,
$275-$300 + deposit Roommate Wanted 
the woodstock valentine, Emy c...11 2ss-s595 MUST SELL MATCHING BROWN 

Typing Dicky peoms, and most
Houston/NASA. Share 2 bdrm? 
LOVE SEAT AND CHAIR. CALL
Pickup & Delivery importantly, CRUNCH BERRIES 
Call Wi11283-1474. 
Looking For Roommate! 

KELLY AT 277 -2980--BEST 
******** 
that you sent me this year. I've277-7406 

DOMERS BOUND

Share house with 1 other (female) 
OFFER!! 
carps diem-ed and gathered myPatties is now hiring for the roommate. Ample space, near 

FOR

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL edelweiss while I could, and I can't summer. Flexible Hours campus, rent: $140, plus utitlities. 
PUGETSOUND

MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
wait to see you in three monthsIIDay and Night. Our work schedule Call Maria at 288-7929. 

Mauve carpet for sale 
Love, Haura is perfect for students. Apply 1n 

The Notre Dame Club of

fits a double or the middle rm of aSHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! 
person. 

AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 
quad 
Western Washington 

MAIL BOXES ETC. 
START YOUR NEW CAREER 3602 Grape Rd. 

BEDROOM HOUSE, 
would like to welcome

UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 
WITH A NEW CAR! 

Outpost Center COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
Mint green carpet for sale 
you to the Evergreen 
We have special financing forOn S.R. 23. just past Ironwood. 

SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­fits a side of a quad or a double 
State. We can't promise 
employed graduates. 

277-6245 Are you going to IU-Biooming­
9364. ton for grad school? I need a 
Call: Gary Erb GREAT CONDITION!! 
you anything except a 
At: Gates Toyota 
good time, and a place

female roommate! Please call me! 
SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK Call X2722 Natasha or Beth
LOST/FOUND 
237-4999

Ask foi"Denise. x2156. ...................... 
to watch the IRISH FURNISHED 
TOWNHOUSE/FULLY 
satell~e broadcasts

LOST AT SENIOR FORMAL: laux LET US HELP YOU! 
Earn $300 to $500 per week 
this fall.
CALL KEVIN x1636pearl bracelet, 3 strands thick ...it SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY reading books at home. Call615­

Call us for more InfoI 2061

Mauve carpet for sale 
belonged to my Grandmother and $100 FREE INSURANCE4 73-7 440 Ext. B340 SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK 
Kevin Whelan '88 746-6071 

fits a double or the middle rm of ahas GREAT sentimental value. 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, 

John Duggan '86 624-1230

quadMint green carpet for sale PLEASE CALL LAURA #2533 LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE BE ON T.V. many needed for CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or fits a side of a quad or a double 
Beth Toomey '81 248-4330

commercials. Now hiring all ages. 
SARAH AT x4068. 
Mike Plouff '79 597-6210

FOUND: Blue wrist keychain­

WE TAPE I WE LABEL! WE SHIPI O'Sullivan?-with 2 car keys-Found 
For casting info. Call GREAT CONDITION!!
(615) 779-7111 Ext. T-530. 
FOR RENT Call X2722 Natasha or BethSat. at 5 PM at Bookstore Semis­Discounts available 

Furnished apt-like rooms, air, ..................... 
on grassy hill near Stepan. Tom-ATIENTION -HIRING! 
kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus1887 
Government jobs -your area. Louii­

272-0615 COMPUTER FOR SALE 

$17,840-$69.485. Callt-602-Give the frog back
TICKETS 
I

AMSTRAD (IBM compatible) HELP!!! I lost a gold ring in the 838-8885. EXT R-6262. 
mudpits Saturday. Reward to the FREE. almost! Furnished houses lncludes:Color monitor, modem 
And do I dream again, for now I person who finds it. Call Paula at (2) on N.D. Ave., $115 mo. per and EPSON printer; Grad Tix = Big $$ 
find, The Phantom of the Opera is 

ATIENTION :EASY WORK 
283-4081. person for entire surnmer, OR flat ALL FOR $485. Call Panos at Call Steve@ 287-2105 
here inside my mind. $190 pp for summer session: plus 237-0027
EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble 
products at home. Details. (1) 602­electric. DEPOSIT. REFERENCES.
LOST: NEW JERSEY CLUB TRUCK _,..
838-8885 Ext. W-6262. Yipes! My ultra-rich grandmaLens cap for camera. 
259-7801 days, 255-5852 For Sale: Apple lie, monitor, dbl. 
LOADING TIMES 
needs a ticket for graduation or

CANON evenings. disk, wp programs and manuals, 
5/10/90:6:00-7:00 PM Yeah, I know it doesn't seem 
ATIENTION :EARN MONEY she'll beat me into submission with 
hundreds o' games, $500. Greg 
STEPAN COURTS like much but I'm broke. 
WATCHING TV! $32,000/year her cane. I will give you CASH 
SUBLET FOR SUMMER x1462
income potential. Details. (1) 602-today for your ticket. CALL X4238 5/11/90:4:15-7:00 PM 
2-bdr apt. partially furnishedIf found call 283-1836. 
838-8885. Ext. TV-6262. and name your price. STEPAN COURTS 
THANX Turtle Creek-price negotiable 1-WAY Chicago to Houston ANY PROBLEMS, CALL LEE OR call Anne x4267. May 24 $40 John 277-4152 
DAVE (3883,4285) LOST -set of KEYS on Sat. April 
ROOMATE NEEDED I NEED GRAD TIX 
SUMMER ONLY $$will pay$$
4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE -NICE-FURNITURE FOR SALE 
29th with "Shane" printed on the 
OAK HILL CONDOS 283-3536
AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL An entire apartment! Must sell this 
key ring. If found please call #1195 FEMALE ONLY 
YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE week. Best offer or only offer! Call
and ask for Shane. 
PHONE AND LEAVE A MESSAGE For Sale: Flight from Chicago to
TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE 272-6117
272-1259 Denver, May 20, Call x1844. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. 
RENT. 277-0959. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. 
MOVING? Don't rent-BUY! 
Wanted: would like to buy a PLEASE CALL CRISTINA IF YOU
FOR RENT $5000(0BO) buys Ford C700 2 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 
bike or motor scooter ARE SELLING GRADUATION 
1/2T moving truck wihydraulic lift, 
call ken at x3362 TICKETS 283-2986.
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 500 mi on rebuilt eng. Huge cargo 
LOST: Black and gold Seiko PRICE NEGOTIABLE box. Extra tires. BUY-LOAD­dress watch on the second 
NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ floor of the library. Please 
PLEASE CALL EITHER: MOVE-SELL cheaper than renting! 13uy any 12' 
CALL #2059-JOHN

cFORRENT I
call Pat x24 79 or give to TRACIE X4026 OR Call 288-4183. library security at the front 
LAUREN X4035 
Italian Su6 witli

WANTED-GRADUATION desk. 
6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. Notre Dame Men's Volleyball 
TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­

1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call GOING TO NORTHWESTERN Team is selling NO volleyball 
One Litre

888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK LOST: A Canon Sprint camera 
234 6688 or 234 5041 . FOR SUMMER SCHOOL? JOB IN T -shirts. Three styles to 
FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT 

EVANSTON/CHICAGO? 1/2 2BDR choose from. 
at Senior Formal. Please call Prices $10 & Soft Vrink._
AFTER 5 616-342-0729. 

Kay at 277-8813. Thanks! NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable APT TO SUBLET, 3 BLKS TO NU. $11. furn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., 1 TO EL. SARA 1674. For info call Tom x2333 
ana receive
$$$ I NEED GRAD TIX $$$ 

efficiency-$225: 1 bdrm-$265 dep., 
PLEASE II I LOST MY 
Call BRAD@ 271-0758 COMPUTER 
references. Female wanted to share a recently VOLVO -1978 4-dr. sedan. DISKS -YES WITH ALL MY 616-483-9572. redecorated 2 bdrm Auto. trans. New: tires, battery, 
$1.00 off
HELP!

house for the summer. $200 tune-up, exhaust sys., 
PAPERS· IN LAFORTUNE LAB 

I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 OR SOMEWHERE IN THE 
mo. Call Now: 232-7970 $1800 obo. Dave 258-1165. 
GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL 
ca[[

HUDDLE. 
PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 THEY WERE IN A RED CASE 
SUMMER SUBLET SPEAKERS -Project One, 3-way HOLDING 5 DISKS. SOME WITH 
FOR RENT 
1 Bedroom. Fully Furnished spkrs. $50 obo. Call Dave: 258­
One Way Chicago to Houston THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY 
.3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM 
Turtle Creek Apartment 1165. 
277-3324
May 24 $40 277-4152 John 

APTS. AVALIABLE 
Price-Negotiable YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG 
REALLY NEED THESE!!! IF 
Call Jeff @277-3998 GOING TO PHOENIX? 
LESS THAN 1 MILE 
CASH FOR GRADUATION 
:Jree 'Defi.very

One-way flight for sale. 
CASE. OR WHATEVER, PLEASE 
TICKETS!! Call Chris@ 43211. CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 
FROM NOTRE DAME 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our O'Hare-Phx., Mon. 5/21, $80 
coupon ezyires:

FEATURES INCLUDE: 
N.D. alumnae family for the most (what a steal!)
OR LEAVE IT AT THE 
ND GRADUATION TIXS NEEDED: LAFORTUNELAB. THANK 
attractive, well-maintained Call Will x2013 or leave message YOU!I!! 
Security systems, 
apartments on Chicago's North and its yours. 5-6-90
• $100+ For Individual Tixs 

basements, rear yards, 
side! Hardwd floors, great closet 
• $300+ For Two Together I lost my SEIKO wristwatch 
washer & dryer, new 
space, lndry facils., conveniently MacPius BOOK cmptr and 
~--------------~ 

located to public transp and lmagewrtr II printer for sale. lnclds
with black wristband. Maybe 
CALL 272-6117 AND LEAVE A on North Quad. If found 
shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. software. 2 yrs old. Like new. 
MESSAGE WITH HOW MUCH please call Diana x4003 
We'd love to help you out I $1000. 255-1970 YOU WANT FOR THE TIX OR TIXS. see CLASS I page 24 



Scoreboard Friday, May 4, 1990
a e 18 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NBA PLAYOFFS NHL PLAYOFFS 
""  AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division w Milwaukee 13 Boston 12 Toronto 13 Cleveland 11 Baltimore 9 New York 7 Detroit 8 West Division w Oakland 16 Chicago 11 Texas 12 California 10 Minnesota 10 Seattle 9 Kansas City 6 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w Pittsburgh 14 Philadelphia 12 Montreal 11 Chicago 10 New York to St. Louis 10 West Division w Cincinnati 14 Los Angeles 13 San D1ego 10 Houston 10 San Francisco 8 Atlanta 7 z-denotes first game was a win  L 6 9 10 10 13 13 15 L 5 7 10 11 12 13 13 L 8 10 11 11 12 12 L 5 10 11 12 14 13  R:t .684 .571 .565 .524 .409 .350 .348 R:t .762 .611 .545 .476 .455 .409 .316 R:t .636 .545 .500 .476 .455 .455 R:t .737 .565 .476 .455 .364 .350  CE 2 2 3 5112 6112 7 CE 3 112 4112 6 61/2 71/2 9 CE 2 3 31/2 4 4 CE 3 5 5 1/2 71/2 71/2  L10 z-8-2 z-7-3 z-5-5 6-4 z-3-7 z-3-7 z-3-7 LlO 7-3 6-4 z-6-4 z-5-5 4-6 z-6-4 2-8 L10 z-7-3 z-6-4 4-6 z-4-6 z-5-5 5-5 L10 5-5 z-6-4 4-6 5-5 z-3-7 5-5  Streak Won 3 Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 2 Lost 2 Lost 5 Lost 5 Streak Won 4 Lost 1 Won 1 Won 2 Won 3 Won 1 Lost 1 Streak Lost 2 Lost 1 Lost 2 Won 3 Lost 1 Lost t Streak Won 1 Won 2 Won 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Won 5  NATIONAL LEAGUE BATTING (56 at bats}-Santiago, San Diego, .400; Daniels, Los Angeles ..377; Duncan. Cincinnati, .377; Dawson, Chicago, .368; Butler, San Francisco, .360. RUN5-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 18; Butler, San Francisco. 17; Sabo, Cincinnati, t 7; VHayes, Philadelphia, 16; 4 are tied with 15. RBI-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 21; Guerrero, St. Louis, 21: Dawson. Chicago, 20; MaWilliams, San Francisco. 19; WCiark. San Francisco, 19. HITS--Butler, San Francisco, 32; McGee, St. Louis, 31: Herr. Philadelphia, 28; Santiago. San Diego, 28; WCiark, San Francisco, 28. DOUBLES--Herr, Philadelphia, 9; DeShields, Montreal, 8; Grissom, Montreal, 8; McGee, St. Louis, 8; Owen, Montreal, 7: Wallach, Montreal, 7; Zeile, St. Louis, 7. TRIPLE5-BHatcher, Cincinnati, 2; Kruk, Philadelphia, 2; Owen, Montreal, 2; Redus. Pittsburgh, 2; Santiago, San Diego, 2; Uribe, San Francisco, 2. HOME RUN5-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 7: GDavis. Houston. 7; Guerrero, St. Louis, 6; HJohnson. New York, 6; 4 are tied with 5. STOLEN BASES--Coleman, St. Louis, 14; Samuel, Los Angeles, 11: Raines. Montreal, 9; 5 are tied with 7. PITCHING (4 declslons)-Armstrong, Cincinnati, 5­0, 1.000, 1.08; Viola, New York, 5-0, 1.000, 0.99; Cook, Philadelphia, 4-0, 1.000, 1.57; Heaton, Pittsburgh, 4-0, 1.000, 2.59; Tudor, St. Louis, 4-0, t .000, 0.96. STRIKEOUTS--Viola, New York, 40; Gooden, New York. 32: Belcher. Los Angeles. 29; Cone, New York, 29; PSmith, Atlanta, 28; RMartinez. Los Angeles, 28. SAVE5-DaSmith, Houston, 8; RMcDowell, Philadelphia, 7; Burke, Montreal, 6; Franco, New York, 6; MiWilliams. Chicago, 6.  Philadelphia vs. Cleveland Thursday. April 26 Philadelphia 111. Cleveland 106 Sunday. April 29 Philadelphia 107, Cleveland 101 Tuesday. May 1 Cleveland 122. Philadelphia 95 Thursday. May 3 Cleveland 108, Philadelphia 96, series tied 2-2 Saturday. May 5 Cleveland at Philadelphia. 1 p.m. Chicago vs. Milwaukee Friday, April 27 Chicago 111. Milwaukee 97 Sunday, April 29 Chicago 109, Milwaukee 1 02 Tuesday, May 1 Milwaukee 119, Chicago 112 Thursday, May 3 Chicago 11 0, Milwaukee 86, Chicago wins series 3-1 WESTERN CONFERENCE Los Angeles Lakers vs. Houston Friday, April 27 Los Angeles Lakers 1 01. Houston 89 Sunday, April 29 Los Angeles Lakers 104, Houston 1 00 Tuesday, May 1 Houston 114, Los Angeles Lakers 1 08 Thursday, May 3 Los Angeles Lakers 109, Houston 88, LA wins series 3-1 CHICAGO (110) Grant 7-131-215, Pippen 6-13 6-11 20. Cartwright 1-5 3-4 5, Jordan 8-19 9-13 25. Paxson 2-5 5-5 9, King 2-3 0-0 4, Perdue 4-6 6-9 15. Hodges 2-4 2-2 6, Nealy 1-4 3-6 5, Armstrong 1-2 2-2 4, Daivs 0-1 0-0 0, Sanders 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 35-76 37-54 110.  DIVISION FINALS Wales Conference Patrick Division Washington 4, N.Y. Rangers 1 N.Y. Rangers 7, Washington 3 Washington 6, N.Y. Rangers 3 Washington 7, N.Y. Rangers 1 Washington 4, N.Y. Rangers 3, OT Washington 2, N.Y. Rangers 1, OT Adams Division Boston 4, Montreal 1 Boston 1, Montreal 0 Boston 5, Montreal4. OT Boston 6, Montreal 3 Montreal 4, Boston 1 Boston 3, Montreal 1 Campbell Conference Norris Division Chlcego 4, St. Louts 3 St. Louis 4, Chicago 3 Chicago 5, St. Louis 3 St. Louis 5, Chicago 4 Chicago 3, St. Louis 2 Chicago 3, St. Louis 2 St. Louis 4, Chicago 2 Chicago 8, St. Louis 2 Smythe Division Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 0 Edmonton 7, Los Angeles 0 Edmonton 6, Los Angeles 1 Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 4 Edmonton 6. Los Angeles 5, OT CONFERENCE FINALS Wales Conference Washington vs. Boston Thursday, May 3  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  NATIONAL LEAGUE  MILWAUKEE (86)  Boston 5, Washington 3, Boston leads series 1-0  
Wednesday's Games Seattle 9, Boston 2 Oakland 2. New York 0  Wadnesday's Games Chicago 9, San Francisco 6 San Diego 4, St. Louis 3  TRANSACTIONS  Lohaus 5-14 0-0 11, Roberts 2-3 2-4 6, Sikma 0­5 1-1 1, Pressey 3-10 1-2 7. Robertson 7-20 6-11 20, Pierce 3-12 11-12 19, Anderson t-1 1-4 3.  Saturday, May 5 Washington at Boston, 7:05p.m. Monday, May 7  
California 3, Baltimore 0 Atlanta 8, Montreal 1 Cleveland 3, Toronto 0 New York 5, Cincinnati 0 Minnesota 8, Detroit 2 Philadelphia 14, Houston 4 Milwaukee at Kansas City. ppd .. rain Los Angeles 6, Pittsburgh 2 Texas 6, Chicago 3 Thursday's Games Thursday's Games Atlanta 4, Montreal 1 Late Games Not Included Cincinnati 5, New York 0 Cleveland 10, New York 5 Houston 10, Philadelphia 3 Minnesota 3, Detroit, 1, 1 0 innings Texas at Chicago, ppd. rain Friday's Garnes Milwaukee at Kansas City, (n) San Diego (Benes 2-2) at Chicago (Maddux 3-1) California at Seattle, (n) San Francisco (Reuschel2-1) at Montreal Only games scheduled Houston (Scott 0-2) at New York (Gooden t-2) Friday's Games Los Angeles (Martinez 2-0) at Philadelphia Texas (Rogers 1-1) at Cleveland (Swindell 2-2) Atlanta (P.Smith 2-1) at Pittsburgh (Heaton 4-0) Detroit (Petry 1-1) at Toronto (Flanagan 2-1) Cincinnati (Robinson 0-1) at St. Louis (Tudor 4-0) Chicago (King 1-0) at Kansas City (Gordon 1-0) Minnesota (Smith 0-3) at Milwaukee (Bosio 3-0) Boston (Clemens 4-1) at Oakland (Stewart 5-0) New York (LaPoint 1-2) at California (Langston 2-1). Baltimore (Harnisch 2-0) at Seattle (Eave 0-2) AMERICAN LEAGUE Cleveland 010 000 423-10 11 3 New York 100 202 000-5 12 4 Farrell, Wickander (4), Olin (5), Orosco (6), Jones (8) and Alomar; Cadaret, Plunk (7), Robinson (7), Guetterman (B), McCullers (9) and Cerone. W--Orosco, 1-1. L-Robinson, 0-1. Sv-Jones (8).  BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES--Removed Stanley Jefferson, outfielder, from the roster pending his assignment to the minor leagues on Friday. DETROIT TIGERS--Named Fernando Arroyo pitching coach for Fayetteville ol the South Atlantic League. National League LOS ANGELES DODGERS--Named Jim Stoeckel scout. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association CHARLOTTE HORNETS--Announces the resignation of Ed Badger, director ot basketball administration and talent scout. DALLAS MAVERICKS-Placed Adrian Dantley. forward, on waivers. FOOTBALL National Football League BUFFALO BILLS--Signed Roy Banks, wide receiver, and John Dominic, nose tackle. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS--Signed Tony Jeffery, wide receiver, to a two*year contract. Signed Rich Schonewolf. defensive tackle, and Willie Davis and Howard Huckaby, wide receivers, to free agent contracts.  Humphries 4-7 5-8 14, Brown 1-3 0-0 3, Grayer 0-0 0-0 0, Kornet 0-1 0-0 o. Hortord 1-1 0-0 2.Totals 27-77 27-42 86. 3-Point goals-chicago 3-5 (Pippen 2-2. Perdue 1-1, Paxson 0-1. Davis 0-1), Milwaukee 5-18 (Pierce 2-6, Brown 1-1, Humphries 1-2. Lohaus 1­6, Sikma 0-1, Pressey 0-1, Kornet 0-1). Fouled out-Nealy. Rebounds-chicago 72 (Grant 14), Milwaukee 51 (Lohaus, Anderson 8). Assists­Chicago 17 (Jordan 5), Milwaukee 12 (Robertson 4). Total fouls-chicago 29, Milwaukee 39. Technicals-Perdue, Anderson 2 (ejected), Milwaukee coach Harris, Robertson, Jordan A­18.633. LA LAKERS (109) Green 4-7 3-4 11, Worthy 10-16 0-0 20, Thompson 4-8 4-6 12, E.Johnson 7-10 4-5 19, Scott 6-10 3-6 15, Cooper 0-3 0-0 0. Woolridge 5-8 2-3 12, Divac 7-8 3-5 18, Drew 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 44-72 19-29 109. HOUSTON (88) B.Johnson 5-1 0 0-0 10, Thorpe 5-8 8-14 18, Olajuwon 12-25 4-B 28, Floyd 5-16 2-3 12. Maxwell 2-11 4-6 9, Smith 1-3 0-0 2, Wiggins 4-6 1-1 9, McCormick 0-2 0-0 0, Bowie 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 34-B1 19-32 88. 3-Point goals-LA Lakers 2-8 (Divac 1-1, E.Johnson 1-2, Worhty 0-1. Scott 0-2, Cooper 0-2),  Boston at Washington. 7:35p.m. Wednesday, May 9 Boston at Washington, 7:35p.m. Friday. May 11 Washington at Boston. 7:35p.m., if necessary Sunday, May 13 Boston at Washington, 7:05 p.m., if necessary Tuesday, May 15 Washington at Boston. 7:35p.m., 1f necessary Campbell Conference Wednesday, May 2 Edmonton 5, Chicago 2, Edmonton leads series 1-0 Friday, May 4 Chicago at Edmonton. 9:35p.m. Sunday. May 6 Edmonton at Ch1cago, 8:35p.m. Tuesday. May B Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Thursday, May 10 Chicago at Edmonton. 9:35p.m.. if necessary Saturday. May 12 Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m., if necessary Monday, May 14 Chicago at Edmonton, 9:35p.m., if necessary STANLEY CUP FINAL  
Houston 1-9 (Maxwellt-6, Floyd 0-3). Fouled out.­ Game 1 -Friday. May 18  
Minnesota Detroit  000 000  100 01 0  0002-3 0000-1  9 6  0 0  SPORTS CALENDAR  None. Rebounds-LA Lakers 47 (Worthy 7), Houston 51 (Oiajuwon 14). Assists-LA Lakers 2B  Game 2 ­Sunday. May 20 Game 3-Tuesday. May 22  
(10 innings) Anderson. Leach (9), Aguilera (10) and Ortiz, Harper (9); Tanana, Henneman (9), Gleaton (10) and Heath. W-leach, 2-0. L-Henneman, 0-2. Sv-Aguilera (5). HR-Minnesota, Gaetti (4).  Friday, May 4 Softball vs. IILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 4 p.m.  (E.Johnson B), Houston 21 (Floyd 10). Total fouls­LA Lakers 23, Houston 23. Technical-Los Angeles illegal defense. A-16,611.  Game 4-Thursday. May 24 Game 5 ­Saturday, May 26. if necessary Game 6-Monday. May 28. if necessary  
....-_  NATIONAL LEAGUE Cincinnati 000 020 021-5 7 0 New York 000 000 OOQ-0 5 3 Armstrong, Myers (8) and Oliver; Fernandez, Pena (8), Musselman (8), Machado (9) and Sasser. W-Armstrong, 5-0. L-Fernandez, 1-3. Sv-Myers (5). HRs-Cincinnati, Oliver 2 (2). Atlanta 010 000 003-4 10 0 Montreal 100 000 000-1 2 0 Glavine, Kerfeld (8), Beever (9) and Whitt, Olson (8); Boyd, Hall (7), Frey (9), Burke (9) and Fitzgerald. W-Kerfeld, 1-2. L-Hall, 2-3. Sv-Boever (2). Houston 200 001 106-10 13 0 Philadelphia 100 000 011-3 1 0 Gullickson, Agosto (B), Da.Smith (8) and Biggio; Mulholland, Akerfelds (7), Carman (8), Parrett (g), McElroy (9) and Daulton. W-Gullickson, 2-1. L-Mulholland, 1-1. Sv­Da.Smith (8). HR-Philadelphia, C.Martinez (3).  Saturday, May 5 . Baseball vs. XAVIER (2), Jake Kline Field. 12 p.m. Men's track hosts Central Collegiates Conference Championships Sunday, May 6 Baseball vs. XAVIER (2), Jake Kline Field, 12 p.m. Saturday, May 12 Baseball vs. DETROIT (2), Jake Kline Field, 12 p.m. Outdoor track at tllini Invitational Sunday, May 13 Baseball vs. DETROIT (2), Jake Kline Field, 12 p.m. Wednesday, May 16-Saturday, May 19 Baseball hosts MCC CHAMPIONSHIPS, Coveleski Stadium Saturday, May 19-Sunday, May 20 Outdoor track at ICAAAA Championships, New Haven. Conn..  PHILADELPHIA (96) Mahorn 5-9 5-6 15, Barkley 7-16 8-13 23, Gminski 2-13 2-2 6, Hawkins 10-18 1-2 22. Dawkins 7-12 2-2 16, Anderson 2-6 4-4 B. Thornton 3-4 0-0 6, Brooks 0-1 0-0 0, Nimphius 0-0 0-0 0, Copeland 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 36-79 22-29 96. CLEVELAND (108) Nance 5-9 0-0 10, Bennett 4-10 0-0 8, Daugherty 12-15 10-12 34, Ehto 7-14 0-2 15. Price 6-13 5-5 18, Williams 9-17 3-4 21, Rollins 0-0 2-2 2, Chievous 0-2 0-0 0, Kerr 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 43-80 20­25 108. 3-Point goals-Philadelphia 2-6 (Barkley 1-1. Hawkins 1-3, Gminski 0-1, Anderson 0-1). Cleveland 2-6 (Ehto 1-3, Price t-3). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-Philadelphia 47 (Mahorn. Barkley 11 ), Cleveland 45 (Daugherty 9). Assists­Philadelphia 21 (Dawkins 1 0), Cleveland 34 (Price 18). Total fouls-Philadelphia 23, Cleveland 18. Technicals-Dawkins 2 (ejected), Philadelphia coach Lynam. A-17,106.  Game 7-Thursday, May 31. if necessary Washington 1 2 0-3 Boston 2 0 3-5 First Period-1. Boston, Galley 3 (Janney, Neely), 1:1B. 2, Washington. Druce 13 (Rouse), 10:08 (pp). 3. Boston, Neely 8 (Janney, Propp), 18:37 (pp). Second Period-4, Washington, Tucker 1, 16:18. 5, Washington. Miller 3, 17:39 (sh). Third Penod--6, Boston. Poulin 7 (Burridge, Chnsllan), 1:05. 7. Boston. Propp 4 (Neely. Wesley), 14:38. B. Boston, Poulin 8, 19:45 (en). Shots on goai-Washinglon 9-8-~26. Boston 12­11-12-35. Goalies-Washington, Liut. Boston, Moog. A­14,44B.  

NOTRE DAME 
-
GOLF COURSE & PRO SHOP 
SPECIAL GRADUATION TEE TIMES 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY MAY 18 & 19 CALL 239-6425 
FINALS WEEK STUDENT SALE 
10% OFF ALL PRO SHOP ITEMS 
FOUNTAIN NOT INCLUDED 
SALEMAY7 -11 


---~ ~-~---------~"~-~---­
Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 19 
1Oth-inning home run by Gaetti lifts Twins to victory 
I>ETHOIT (AI') -Gary year after 23 games, when they made two errors in the seventh, Reds 5, Mets 0 Johnson, playing out or posi­Gantti's two-run homer in the finished with a major-league one in the eighth and one in the NEW YORK Jack tion at shortstop, bobbled lOth inning Thursday gave the high 103 losses. ninth to tie the league mark for Armstrong allowed four hits in Holando Hoomes' one-out Minnesota Twins a 3-1 victory Terry Leach (2-0) pitched a third basemen shared by 20. 7 2-.3 innings to win his fifth grounder for an error in the ovnr tho Detroit Tigers and a scoreless ninth inning for the players. The last AL third game and Joe Oliver hit two fifth and Oliver followed with swtH)p of their three-game win. Rick Aguilera pitched the baseman to commit four errors home runs, leading the his first home run. Oliver en-series. 10th for his fifth save. in a game was Baltimore's Cincinnati Heds over the error-tered the game with 11 singles 
Kirby l'uekett started the in-"It was a breaking pitch, a Floyd Rayford in 1986. prone New York Mets 5-0 and three doubles in 57 at-bats. ning with a walk. Gaetti, who slider right down the middle," The modern major-league Thursday night. Oliver led off the ninth with had a pair of three-run homers pitcher Mike Henneman said. record for errors by a third Armstrong (5-0) joined Frank his second homer of the game 
baseman is five, by Boston's Viola and Dave Stewart as the and season. David Brain in 1906. only five-game winners in the In the eighth, Chris Sabo led 
As a result of Blowers' er-major leagues. Viola shut out off with a walk against rors, the Indians scored four the Reds for New York on Alejandro Pena, stole second unearned runs in the seventh, Wednesday. and third, and scored when one in the eighth and two in the Howard Johnson made three Johnson. made a two-base error ninth to hand the Yankees their errors and the Heds stole five on Barry Larkin's grounder fifth straight loss. bases, including four in the with the infield in. Larkin stole 
Blowers, acquired last August eighth inning. third and Billy Hatcher fol-from Montreal in the John Sid Fernandez (1-3) and lowed with an infield single. Candelaria trade, had only two Armstrong breezed through the The Beds are 46-for-5:~ in errors this season. first four innings until the steals for the season. The Mets 
Mets' d1~fense got them in trou-have allowed 46 stolen bases in
Braves 4, Expos 1 
ble again. 53 attempts.
MONTHEAL -Torn Glavine allowed one hit in seven innings and the Atlanta Braves scored three times in the ninth to win thnir l'il'th straight ganw, de­feating the slumping Montrnal Expos 4-1 Thursday. 
With the scorn iind 1-1, 


Andres Thomas greeted reliever Drew llall (2-3) with a single to start the Atlanta ninth. After moving to second on Mark Lemke's sacrifice, Thomas scon~d on Greg Olson's double 
AP Photo to right-center. 
Jeff Treadway followed with 
Gary Gaetti waited sunk the Detroit Tigers with a a two-run homer in 
a single against Steve Frey,
the 1Oth inning as the Twins prevailed 3-1. 
who relinved llall, to score WNirwsday night, hit an 0-1 "It just hung right there. It was Olson, before pinch-hitter pitrh owr tlw left-field wall for an nasy pitch to hit. It was Lonnin Smith's HBl single his fourth honwr of the s1mson. right there and he's a mistake against Tim Burke scored "I didn't hit tlw ball all that hittnr." Oddibe McDowell. w.-11." (;aetti said. "I'm not even The only hit Glavine allowed sun• that's a home run. Maybe Indians 10, Yankees 5 was a bunt single by Otis Nixon in Boston. but not here." NEW YORK -Third base­in the third. Glavine then loaded Tlw Tigers havn lost five man Mike Blowers made four the bases by walking Junior straight games and am last in errors, tying an American Noboa and Tim Raines, before 
AP Photo 

tlw Anwrican League East with League record and leading to striking out Tim Wallach to end an S-15 rneonl -sanw as last seven unearned runs. Blowers the threat. The Cincinnati Reds improved to 14-5 with their victory over the Mets. 


~6#1 ~ ~Uu) ~ti6#1 
Hap_.Py Birthday, 
S~! ?laflluf ~~~51 W~!! 
~S~111edll 
May 14th 
Good Luck on Your Exams! 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Kevin, Amy, and Alfie 
The Chicago Office of Ernst & Young wishes to congratulate and welcome aboard the following graduates ofthe class of 1990. • • 
Ms. Cynthia M. Bates Mr. Christopher M. Geneser Ms. Melissa A. Casper Mr. Thomas McGuigan 
Ernst & Young 
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h 

New York has made 27 er­
rors in 22 games, allowing 14 
unearned runs. The three er­
rors by Johnson tied his dub 
record for shortstops set on 
July 18, 19R5. 
Armstrong, the Hods' No. 1 
draft pick in June 19S7, struck 
out three and walked one. 
Former Met Handy Myers re­
lieved with two out and two on· 
in the seventh and fanned 
Johnson. Myers finished for his 
fifth savn in his first appear­
ance against Nnw York. 
After Dave Magadan singled 
with one out in the first. 
Armstrong n~tirnd 13 straight 
before walking Daryl Boston in 
the fifth. 
ln his live starts, Armstrong 
has allowed six runs in :B 1-3 
innings. 
Astros 10, Phillies 3 
PIIILADELPIIIA Bill Gullickson, back after two sea­sons in .Japan, pitched a strong game and Ken Caminiti drove in 
-
three runs as llouston cooled ofl' Philadelphia. 
The Phillies, who got 20 hits in .winning 14-4 Wednesday night, were limited to six by Gullickson (2-1) in 7 1-3 in­nings. He struck out four, walked three and never trailed after Caminiti hit a two-run single off Terry Mulholland ( 1­
1) in the first inning. 
Philadelphia scored in the lirst on an HBI double by Von Hayes and in the eighth when Carrnelo Martim~z hit his third home run. Dave Smith, the third Houston pitcher, worked the final 1 2-3 innings for his eighth save. 
The Astros put the game out of reach with a six-run ninth against Jeff Parrett and Chuck McElroy. Glenn Wilson had two hits in the inning, including a two-run single. Biggio, Davis and Caminiti had HBl singles and Hamirez a run-scoring grounder. Len Dykstra went 4­for-4 for the Phillies and scored two runs. 


page 20 The Observer 
Bulls' defense stymies Bucks 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Michael Jordan drew a technical foul in 1985. Jordan scored 25 points and during the brief scuffle. The Cavaliers virtually shut the Chicago Bulls used an ag­The second quarter was the down the 76ers in the fourth gressive body-checking defense Bucks' undoing. Milwaukee quarter, outscoring them 22­and a decisive second-quarter shot 24 percent for the period, 14. The Sixers went scoreless run Thursday night to rout the making only 6 of 25 field goal from the field for seven minutes Milwaukee Bucks 110-86 and attempts. Chicago also had a as Cleveland widened an 89-84 clinch their opening-round 31-19 first-half rebounding lead to 97-85 with five minutes playoff series. edge in building its big lead. left. 
Chicago, which won the best­Chicago led 27-20 after one Daugherty finished off the 8­of-5 series in four games, will quarter behind 10 points from 1 flurry with a short hook shot face the winner of Saturday's Will Perdue, who was brought and two free throws. Cleveland-Philadelphia game in in to give the Bulls more bulk As has been the case in all the Eastern Conference semifi­and a physical presence inside. four games in the series, the nals. On entering the game, Perdue Cavaliers got off to a quick 
The Bulls, promising to be immediately delivered a hard start, leading 34-23 after one more physical to reciprocate foul on Robertson and the min­quarter and 60-50 at halftime. for what they felt was rough utes later got into a shoving Cleveland let its halftime play and hard fouls from the match with Anderson. leads slip away in Philadelphia, Bucks in the first three games, but made them stand up at got tough on defense in the fi­Cavaliers 108, 76ers 96 home. nal seven minutes of the second RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) -Philadelphia got within two quarter. Brad Daugherty hit 10 of his points late in the third quarter 
Chicago, led by 11 points first 11 shots from the field on Hersey Hawkins' 3-pointer, from Jordan, outscored the and scored a team playoff but Craig Ehlo closed the quar­Bucks 22-5 in those seven min­record 34 points Thursday ter with a layup and John utes, taking a 56-39 halftime night as the Cleveland Cavaliers Williams began the fourth with lead. beat the Philadelphia 76ers a three-point play. Philadelphia 
Milwaukee managed only one 108-96 to even their Eastern got no closer than five after field goal in the final 7:37 of Conference quarterfinal series that. the first half, that a 3-pointer 2-2. Charles Barkley scored 23 by Brad Lohaus with 56 sec­The two teams split their four points and had 11 rebounds for onds to go. Chicago then held regular-season games, with Philadelphia. Hawkins scored the Bucks to only two third­each winning once at home and 22, but only two in the fourth quarter field goals, pulling once on the road. Each has won quarter. ahead 84-60 going into the its two home games in the Williams had 21 for fourth quarter. playoffs. Cleveland. 
Scottie Pippen added 20 The fifth and deciding game points for Chicago, which has will be Saturday in Lakers 1 09, Rockets 88 beaten the Bucks 20 times in 23 Philadelphia. HOUSTON (AP) -James games. Mark Price set a Cleveland Worthy scored 10 of his 20 
Alvin Robertson led playoff record with 18 assists, points in the final 7:37 on .Milwaukee with 20 points and and Daugherty, who also Thursday night to lead the Los Ricky Pierce had 19. grabbed nine rebounds, had his Angeles Lakers to a 109-88 vic­
Milwaukee's Greg Anderson best offensive game of the sea­tory that eliminated the and Chicago's Ed Nealy got into son. His regular-season best Houston Rockets from the NBA a fight with 7:06 remaining was 30 points. playoffs. after Nealy fouled Anderson Cleveland's previous playoff The Lakers, who snapped a hard under the basket and scoring record was 32 points, four-game losing streak in The Anderson elbowed him. set by Campy Russell against Summit, won the best-of-5 Anderson was ejected, Nealy New York in 1978 and tied by series 3-1 and will play the was charged with a foul and World B. Free against Boston winner of the Utah-Phoenix first-round series in the Western Conference semifinals. Phoenix leads the series 2-1 with Game 4 in Phoenix on Friday night. 

Worthy scored his first bas­ket of the fourth quarter with 
7:37 left in the game during a 12-2 run when the Lakers took charge of the game with a 93­83 lead with 6:35 to play. 
Magic Johnson scored . 19 points for the Lakers, who outscored the Rockets 12-2 
Friday, May 4, 1990 
over the final 4:17. 
Akeem Olajuwon led the Rockets with 28 points and 14 rebounds and Otis Thorpe scored 18 points. 
The Lakers, who never trailed, hit six of their first nine shots while the Hockets made just two of their first 18. 
The Lakers led 56-52 at half­time as they shot 63 percent from the field in the first half compared to Houston's 43 per­cent. 


'· 
-
~CHECK OR MONEY O:n;FOR$2;,00;AY:LE-::1 
PAPER &WOOD 2820 LINCOLNW AY EAST 
I 
MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
NAME ---------------------·----------------~--------------I 
HOME ADDRESS---------------------------­
--~~----~~~-~A~~~~~~~=~=~---~-~~~=---=--=----=--=-= I 
H0 ME PH ONE---------------------------------------------------------------------------­

1. 
Constructed of high quality 1" birch veneer plywood. (Lightweight but strong). 

2. 
62" head clearance. 

3. 
Interchangeable parts. (Can't be put together wrong!) 

4. 
High fasteners for 30 minute asembly! 

5. 
Designed to accommodate twin size mattress. 

6. 
2 reversible bookcases with 1/4" backs. (30' of shelves. 

7. 
Typewriter/keyboard (27") or desk (30") extension. 

8. 
Three footpads for easy access to sleeping area. 

9. 
Assembly tool & cloth bag for handy storage of parts. 

10. 
Stained medium brown with satin lacquer finish. 


** Pick-up just 15 minutes from ND/SMC campus •• Verification of order, pick-up date 

... 
~~-~------------~--• 
Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Pleasant Tap could reach winner's circle 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (APl ­Chris Spnc~kert was drawn to the history of Churchill Downs wlwn lw brought his first horse to tlw Kentucky Dnrby, so he paid a visit to the track mu­snwn. 
Tlwre. lw found evidence that his horse, Pleasant Tap, could win the race. 
A native of Aseot, England who C!Linn to thn United States I 0 years ago, Speekert brings Plnasant Tap into the Dnrby as a 30-1 outsidtw. lie's a eome­from-bnhind horse, and that's part of tlw rnason. 
Thirty two of the last :{9 l>nrbins havn bnnn won on or nnar tlw lnad. It's thought that tlw traditionally big finlds in thn DIH"by rnakn it tough to hamlin thn tral'fie. 
"My horsn doesn't have a late run, hn has a long run," Spncknrt said. "But I looknd at 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field: Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meP,ting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Any further questions. please call the Track Office at 239-6989. 
Paige E. Cooper, a senior from Lincolnshire, IL has been awarded the 1990 University of Notre Dame Lifeguard Award for Outstanding Service. 
15 to 20 Derbies in the mu­semn, and I didn't sec too many horses get in trouble. It's a big traek, and thnre's a lot of room." 
The last two Derbies have benn won by Sunday Silence and Winning Colors, both of whom were never far off the lead. However, in 1987, Alysheba won from back in the pack, as did Ferdinand in 1986. 
It's best to be in good shape by the six-furlong pole, Specker! said, or with about three-quartNs of a mile left in the 1 114-mile race. 
"Ferdinand had 
'EDE(j.?8(J& SPYI.Cl01.1.5 *I , 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
lion out of the gate, got shuf­llcd back and then came on to win," Spcckert said. 
The 36-year-old Speekcrt be­gan his training career in England, Ireland and France, llwn did his American appren­ticeship under Charlie Whittingham, who trained Ferdinand. Speckert now trains Buckland Farm's West Coast division. 
''I've been here on Derby day before," Speckert said, "with Charlie and for the Kentucky Oaks, but I've never had a horse in the Derby." 
Xavier 
continued from page 28 
four well played games on April 28-29. 
"We did not play exceptionally well against Xavier earlier this season," said Murphy. "Xavier has the type of pitchers that can give you problems with all their knuckleballs, especially since we're a young team. But we did what we had to do to win." 
The Detroit matchups will be a tough challenge for the Irish, especially since Notre Dame swept the Titans last time. Detroit, tabbed by Murphy as "the best team talent-wise in the conference, no question" returns almost all of its players from last year, a team that beat the. Irish seven out of 11 times last season. 
"We have to keep focused be­cause Xavier and Detroit are sitting back after we've boaten them, and they're just going to come out here and play base­ball. That's the best thing you can do," said Murphy. "I think our kids will react, that they 
Love you, Cindy 
will be thinking baseball and concentrating on their perfor­mances. If they do that, the wins will take care of them­selves." 
Since these arc all MCC con­tests, Notre Dame could do nothing better for itself than to dominate the conference in the hopes of receiving an at-large bid to the NCAAs. 
"I think we should go (to the NCAAs), no question," said Murphy. "Our freshmen are getting better and better. If anyone saw the adversity we've been through this season, we have not missed a beat. We've had 28 one-or two-run ball­games, and we're 20-8 in those games." 
Perhaps the biggest disap­pointment of the season came when the game with Illinois was rained out on March 31 in front of a national audience. ESPN televised the game, in whieh the Irish jumped to a quiek 2-0 lead before rain came pouring down to dash any hopes of tire Irish defeating a top-20 team this 
season. 
Besides the goal of reaching the NCAAs, the baseball team would do well just to finish the season on a positive note. Murphy's slogan for this year, "One More Step," was coined in the hopes of building on the program's credibility, which just three years ago was a team that lost to teams like DePauw and Bethel. Sinee Murphy has been coach, tlw DePauws and the Bethels of the schedule have been replaced by nationally contending teams like Miami and Texas. 
"We're looking to make that one more step," said Murphy, "to make the commitment and have the players mature and grow up as baseball players. The will is the key, to prepare and to get better. If we do that, that's one mom s " 

Safe Walk thanks you for your support this semester. We look forward to serving you next semester. 
We will operate on regular schedule during Finals Week. 
Sunday-Thursday 7:30-1:30 
-

a au 
page 22 The Observer 
Propp lifts Bruins over Caps 
Boston comes from behind to defeat Washington 5-3 
-~~-~-~--------~-----~~ -~­

BOSTON (AP) -Brian Propp broke a tie with 5:22 left as the Boston Bruins scored three straight goals in the final period for a 5-3 victory over the Washington Capitals in the opener of their Stanley Cup semifinal series Thursday night. 
Propp, 30 feet in front of the goal on the left side, passed the puck across ice to Cam Neely. Neely immediately sent it back to Propp, who fired the puck from 15 feet over goalie Mike Liut's stick to break a 3-3 tie. 
It was the fourth goal of the playoffs for Propp and second assist of the game for Nealy, who also had a goal. Dave Poulin added an empty-net goal with 15 seconds left, his second of the game, as the Bruins rallied from a 3-2 deficit. 
The second game of the best­of-7 Wales Conference final is scheduled for Boston Saturday night. 
Boston, which had the NHL's best regular-season record, won its seventh straight home game. Washington, whose 36­38-6 record was 13th best, had its four-game winning streak snapped. 
Poulin had tied the score at 
1:05 of the third period. Randy Burridge passed the puck from the left corner back to Dave Christian along the left boards. Christian fired it across to the right corner of the crease, where Poulin tipped it in. 
Washington's Kelly Miller, who failed on a first-period penalty shot, had broken a 2-2 tie with a shorthanded goal with 2:21 left in the second. 
The unassisted goal after a bad pass from Boston's Ray Bourque came 1:21 after Washington's John Tucker tied the score on an unassisted goal set up by goalie Andy Moog's bad clearing attempt. 

The Bruins led 2-1 after one period on goals by Garry Galley and Neely. Washington's John Druce got his 13th goal of the playoffs and seventh on a power play. 
A seemingly harmless shot by Michal Pivonka from just in front of the red line led to Tucker's goal. Moog saved the shot, then tried clearing it by lifting it with his stick. 
Tucker caught the puck in the right circle, dropped it to the ice and fired a five-footer from the right for his first playoff goal. 
Miller got his third 34 seconds after Washington's Rob Murray was penalized for high-sticking. 
10. The men's basketball MCC, the rollercoaster season team had a rollercoaster sea­of LaPhonso Ellis, Lou Holtz al­son that ended with a loss to legedly linked with the
Top 10 
continued from page 28 

Virginia in the NCAA Minnesota football scandals, 
3. After a scoreless first half, Tournament. But on the first Jubba Beshin winning an NCM Notre Dame dominated the Saturday in March, third­title in fencing, Karen Robinson second stanza in the Orange ranked Missouri caught the winning the MCC Player of the Bowl against Colorado. This Irish at full strength. Notre Year, Digger Phelps capturing was a win over the top-ranked Dame crushed the Tigers and his 400th career victory. team in the country and ended probably assured themselves of But those Top 10 stood above Notre Dame's season at 12-1. an NCM bid with the win. the rest. In many cases, they This would haye been the top There were other big stories had impacts beyond the origi­story, had the Irish defeated during the past year--the nal game or season. Miami in November. wrestling team at the NCMs, Those are the images that 
4. The decision of the athletic the ,sQftball team win the will linger in 1989-90. 
____,__-----; 
department not to renew the contract of soccer coach Dennis Grace was big in that Grace led the Irish to a 76-38­14 record during his six years at the helm and their first-ever NCAA Tournament berth. His replacement will be hard­pressed to equal or better those marks. 
5. 
The women's basketball team did everything it could, but that was not enough. A 23­6 mark and 18-0 in the weak Midwestern Collegiate Conference did not secure a berth for the Irish in the NCAA Tournament. The fact that a team can have such a success­ful season and then be denied a tournament berth makes this a top five story. 

6. 
The men's tennis team has come a long way under Bob Bayliss in the past few years. The Irish are on the verge of 


.. their first-ever NCAA berth and have one of the top ranked players in the country in David DiLucia. Had Notre Dame re­ceived the bid before this issue came out, this story would have been in the top five. 
7 .Malicious Prostitution did what few thought it could in -repeating as Bookstore Basketball XIX champs. Just repeating in Bookstore de­serves recognition, but Malicious did it in an incredible manner. Joe Scott scored 13 points and dominated Adworks down the stretch. It's too bad this team won't be back to go for a third. 8. Notre Dame got its first­ever NCAA Tournament bid in lacrosse Wednesday afternoon with a victory over Michigan State. This story jumped in at eighth and could go higher de­pending on what the Irish do in the tourney. Coach Kevin Corrigan has done a terrific job this spring. 9. The USC game was big be­cause the Irish trailed 17-7 at halftime and then rallied to win. It was bigger because of the pre-game incident in the tunnel between the two teams. That incident drew more cov­erage than the actual game and prompted Lou Holtz to say that he would resign if it happened again. 
ATTENTION: •••11 Grad Students 
••lill 
Professors 
Employees 
•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


lC)OQ Su!"' ~ Not'! Sour" &t-nct •nn...n.-.aozze 
2t9. 277. 373f 
MARY B. GREEN 

Face it. Even though the sun may be shining and the beach is calling your name, sooner or later you'll probably have to make some money for school. Wouldn't it be nice to work around your own schedule...to have the luxury of keeping a bigger piece of the summer to yourself? 
Personnel Pool Temporary Services believes in summer too! We can offer you long and short term assignments in your part of town ... positions to fit your type ofskills-from clerical, word processing and data entry, to paralegaVlegal support and light industrial. Our 9 Chicagoland locations are here to make your summer fun and prosperous. 
We also offer great pay, student benefits, referral bonuses, and more! So.. .it's your call, make it today!Q.:\ (312) 781-9132 
Ql(f;, Pe~~~~ol. 
E/0/E 
FLORAL CO. INC. 

MICHAEL BAUER 
'--~~-----­~ 327 LINCOLN WAY WEST•,...-w-Col 232-3354  •  "Rewlal -Gi6f6 beJt ollttll6i8N6" FREE DELIVERY! COME IN AND BROWSE IZI  

 Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM  
Sundays9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon  
BRIDAL SERVICE  SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S  
FRUIT BASKETS  SERVING SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA & GRANGER  
FUNERAL TRIBUTES  OVER 60 YEARS  

-
--~ 

Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 23 
Petro 
continued from page 28 
Last snason Piotrowicz was the top pitcher on a squad that went to the NCAA Tournament. I lis 11 wins snt a single season reeord and his 2.24 EHA was n~markahle considering the quality of today's collegiato hit­tor. llis masterful eontrol was onee again displayed with only:H walks in 112.1 innings. 
Still. Petro isn't the most tal­ented pitcher . llis fastball is in tho low nighties and his curve is eonsidered average. I lowever, he more than makes up with a great change-up, the ability to put the ball whern he wants an incredibly foeused mentality and a work ethic that is second to none. 
"Brian is the perfect example of a tnw pitcher," says Murphy. "I In totally understands what it means to be a pitehor. lie doesn't havo a lot of talent. but lw proves that you don't have to have tho best stuff to be the best." 
"I have to be mentally and 
physieally prepared before each 
game," eomments Piotrowicz. 
"If I'm not, I'm beat. I'm not a 
Sinnes or Leahy, but once I get 
going and piteh my game the 
way eoaeh wants, I'm all right." 
Petro eontinues to be Notre 
Dame's 'Mr. Consistency.' lie's 
5-3 this year with a 2.17 EHA, 
40 strikeouts and only 17 
walks. Perhaps the biggest 
thing he's done this year be­
sides almost always giving a 
steady performance is make an 
impaet on the the five talented 
freshmen that are the future 
core of the Irish pitching staff. 
"They look at him and say, 'Look how he handled that-he didn't get upset."' explains Murphy. "lie leads by good ex­ample, he's a winner. The young guys see that and they want to have that aura." 
"I hope that whatever I do, I do in a positive way," says Piotrowiez. "We've had rainouts and I haven't always pitched as well as I want, the key is to do the little things, right. I just try to do the things eoach tells U!>." 
ASK ABOUT OUR 
llldbdtll!ll$1 
---,-t=t=i=:=·= -i-;=t=!=~ 
COLLEG . GRADUATE ·..FINANCE .PLAN­
Jordan's Auto Mall
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
609 E Jetferson 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. M1shawaka (219) 259-1981 
SMART KIDS 
Granger 
Leahy learns ropes as rookie 

By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
Notre Dame pitcher Pat Leahy has a rich and storied athletic tradition in his family. His grandfather, Frank Leahy eoaehed the Irish football team to four national championships between 1941-19 53 and his dad played football for Notre Dame. 
Pat himself was a three-sport star in high sehool with schol­arship offers for his services as a pitcher, tight-end and for­ward in basketball. Leahy was also drafted by the Toronto Blue Jays. As an 18-year old, Leahy facod a lot of tough deci­sions. 
"It (the deciding process) was tough, but I made it harder than it really was," said Leahy. "I was trying to weigh every­thing, asking what-ifs." 
The 6-7, 245 pounder chose college baseball and it's a good thing for the Irish that he did. His 91 mile-per-hour fastball and excellent breaking ball make him a great addition to the Irish pitching staff. 
"He was very heavily re­cruited, but we had the inside 
Tap and Grill 
~i! 11~. !;irl11i11 f11r t~11 •••••••••••••••••••••••••1~.!1!i 
Jlriml! llill ........................................... ll.!l!i li! 11~. Lllllstl!r Taii ................. Markl!t Pricl! ComI! haw llrl!aklast, lunch or dinnl!r. Cocktails and Sandwichl!s anytiml!!Full Ml!nu Mon. • Sat. &am -llpm Sun. Bam • !lpm 
12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 
Pat Leahy 
track because his dad knew Notre Dame inside and out," says Pat Murphy. "But Pat him­self knew what Notre Dame was all about as far as the edu­cation Md the program." 
"It was the tradition that helped me make the decision," says Leahy.'' "Baseball was definitely something I wanted to do and the last couple of years under coach Murphy the baseball has improved." 
Like any highly recruited ath­lete, there are a lot of expecta­tions of Leahy. 
He's had a lot of pressure on him," explains Murphy. "Everyone always asks, 'how's 
Michele, CONGRATS on your >Hoosier Award .and good luck in Rome next 
M~ar. 
.
m1ss you. 
Greg 

HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
219 233 2179 
MALE GRADUATE HOUS.ING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 9 month lease 

the Leahy kid?'" 
Leahy was expeeted to step in and start as the Irish were only returning two starters from 
last year's 48-19 squad. Besides that pressure, Leahy was tabbed as the preseason MCC Freshman of the Year by Baseball America .. Leahy hasn't been fazed by all the attention that has been heaped on him, though. 
"I really didn't pay attention to it," said Leahy. "The best thing to do was to start over. I felt it was most sensible to start at the basies. In a way it has been a little difficult at times," Leahy continued. "I've had the typical freshman ad­justment period where the en­tire world is in a spin." 
Unlike many superstars out of high school whose egos are higher than Mt. Everest, Pat Leahy is a down-to-earth, mod­est guy. 
"lie's a warm hearted person who expects to be successful," says Murphy. "lie has to learn to be more patient, though. When you're extremely bright, competitive and young like he is, patience isn't always in the vocabulary. !lis biggest eritic is himself. He needs to relax a lit­tle more and realize you're not always going to have a good outing." 
Although Leahy is 6-0 with a dazzling 2.15 EHA in 67 innings along with 61 strikeouts, there have been times where he has struggled a bit. Against Detroit last Saturday, he walked six in a five-inning winning perfor­manee. Wednesday he struggled through three innings against Valparaiso. 
"When I don't pitch well, I can't even look myself in the mirror," said L(~ahy. "That I'm hard on myself is good because I'm never satisfied, but it's bad because I tend to dwell on things too long. I don't always just think about it, learn from it and forget it." 
One of the things that has made Leahy so suecessful this season is his desire to learn Murphy's pitching plan. 
"It's  been  a  pretty smooth  
adjustment  in  that  respect,"  
Leahy said.  

"lie's learning but he has a long, long way to go," adds Murphy. 
Leahy realizes where he need to improve himself to become a dominant pitcher. 
"By far it's the mental aspect," he said. "I need to have better focus. I have to be able to turn on the focus button when I need it and turn it off when I don't." 
No one can argue the fact that Leahy has been a big rea­son for the sueeess of the Irish this year. With more experi­ence, his two-hit shutout earlier this year against Saint Louis will become routine. In addi­tion, Murphy plans to take ad­vantage of Leahy's tremendous potential as a hitter next year once he is comfortable in his 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYUNG FOR 
.. 
... 

.. 

I 
-~~---~-------­
Friday, May 4, 1990

The Observer
page 24 

I HEY BANANA! Did you know that Sara Shincovich 
FOODSHARE VOLUNTEERS turns 20 on May 12? In between 
SENIORS, NEEDED! If you will be here this CONGRATS ON THE CALL FROM"VIC"
I Class 
finals, please remember to wish

summer and want to help, call continued from page 17 YOU DUN D.W. N BP her a Happy Birthday!
DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST 

I 
Kathy O'Dwyer at 4432 REAL PROUD! 
MINUTE TO PLACE YOUR 

ASK ME IF I AM A CAR. "GOODBYE" CLASSIFIEDS IN Katy Sullivan: LUV
Pat, BLUHILBIL YS THE OBSERVER FOR THE MAY I just wanted to welcome you home 
ARE YOU A CAR? 181SSUE. COME IN THIS WEEK ha ha, the joke is on you, no 
because I missed your yummyNO! AND AVOID THE RUSH. embarassing personals today. 
PS RAYMOND CHANDLER 

IS DEAD! tummy. I hope we can do some Love random stuff together, like sleep
ARE YOU A CAR? P.S. IF YOU DON'T COME IN THIS on bridges, or walk straight lines. 
CONGRATULATIONS TO:

The Car. SIEGFRIED A SOFTBALL TEAM 
UH,UH, NO! WEEK, THE DEADLINE FOR THE No transition. 0 Katy, 0 Katy, 0 HAHAHA!!!!! LAST ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, Katy, 0 Katy, 0 Katy, 0 Katy, do1990 WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSMAY17. 
5-0! you want to go on a daley? If youDIANE TRACY: 
do please caii1-800-SKeW-due. Only one more week to go! DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO 
AWESOME DISPLAY. SKeW Good luck on all your finals and get SAY A SPECIAL GOODBYE TO BJ. 

GOOD JOBready to celebrate your 21st on the YOUR SPECIAL FRIENDS. MAC1 OAM51990JAKE 

TO: Siobhan Carroll, Christi 11th!! 
SUZANNE,KARA,DEB,AMY 

Corbett & Keir Skloss-You all Love, JOHN, (B.,L.,&P),KOWAL,NANCY,VAL,R 
made my year great. Thanks. O.C. 
EELITZ,KATHY & JANICE!

Razz and Swanie PETE YOB IS THE KOOLEST These 8+ months have been will be even better. Remember: IXOXO-FLIPCOPY EDITOR IN THE HISTORY the BEST of my life. I'm going 
get by with a little help from myDENNIS WOLFE, OF KOOL COPY EDITORS. 'WOO to miss you SO MUCH this 
friends ... 
THE EX-ENGINEERS' COUNCILI know that tons of other WOO' (fire up for next year) thanks summer. I can't wait to see 

RP
PRESENTS: THE "ALDIE" 

people are reading this too, for everything ... mony you next fall on our one-year HOWLAND TOP TEN
anniversary! I LOVE YOU!!! 1 0 -Standard frictionless wheels -­but I really don't care. The 
past three months have been Buffalo Baggage Truck loads LoveAmays, you can get them at any 
awesome--thanks for all the Fri. 5/11 2-5pm Stepan and KRISTA department store.
fun. I will miss you a lot unloads Sat. 5/12 6-9pm. For info 9 -The slot knows its motion and it 
over the summer. call Tom x3368 or Matt x3681. didn't even go to college.
ART BUSTAMANTE 8 -I'll give you a clue; it's a roundyour lit-tle gir~riend "Bust-a-move" 7 -And the x's go off where such Dear BM: Miss you much. Please 
JULIA. I really love you and I am come up and visit me. 
~~ 
things go. 

going to miss you like no other. --Your second floor Hesburgh I want to have your baby­6-If a part requires 4 bolts, the 
Would you come home with me for admirer. HAHAHA 
~~~!!~~§.l
Germans will use 6, the Americans 4, the Engish 2. 

the summer? Your "Pooh Bear". This one's for you 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR

10 BestOuotes from THE wknd Good Luck on finals!! 
_"_...............
5 -Just bag it. 

Going to D.C. for the summer 10. But what's it called? Luv 4 -And quite obviously, after a
or moving there permanently? 9. Where's my wallet? Your favorite hairdresser quick mental calculation, the ~----;;"•----­
:)inne• for 2 

D.C. Alumni Club can help you 8. You've got new feet answer is 4.5682569. 
find housing. Call Mike Jones 7. You bed hog Ps. How many more states 
••$899 "';.".:"
3 -Coordinate systems are a

at (202) 546-7582 (evenings) 6. It must be your Testrogen do you have left? 
..................., .. 
P1c:k any two Gourmet Snadwic.hc.s.
device of man, not of God.
5. We're going to the bathrm, we'll 
rwo Garden S.l... plu, your choic:.c oi
opposes what you want to do, 
French Fria or Onion Rm11 and 2

JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN be back in a minute 
Min,.5.,M­

CAROL MEANEY 
TWO RESUMES TO CAREER 4. Can I borrow this napkin? 
I-. expiration date 5131 AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 3. Get a room! 
I love you always. Thank you for 
being you. 1 -DON'T KNOW, DON'T CARE, BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS 2. ltchy?-is that b/c you scratch 
undae 

Your Boyfriend. THE MATH WILL BAIL ME OUT? 
SPRING. a lot? 
~,---------·
Bvy •ny auc umdae and 
99'­
Hey Howland, take care eh? 
recM:ve • leGCfld. one ci the llmtliNfrx09t. 
1. You're great in bed 

RONI-143 Forever 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN 

exJ)lratiOn dale 5131 TWO RESUMES TO CAREER Amy Frances­
-Billy 
AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Thanks for a great year full of OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING memories that I'll never forget. I'll CAMPUS THIS SPRING. always remember you as living 
proof of the saying that good JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN things come to those who wait. TWO RESUMES TO CAREER You're a truly special girl -may I AND PLACEMENT SERVICES never miss the thrill of being near OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING you. CAMPUS THIS SPRING. -Rich 
LOST:Biue ND Men's V-Ball SPIKE aka AND I KELLY Sweat-Jacket(#9 on front) If Happy 21st on the 1st. Say, seen or found pl. call Dan at X1232 what's that on the side of Marian's car?? SEEYA!!!!! 
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA
PRIME RIB 
r......a. FrWay aigld .......Will
........,......
SEAFOOD 
219-259-9925 

MARIGOLD 
MARKET 
~ 

IPtAN AwEPJD foR YouR GR/lDuA-nON 
-CElEERATION 
..

~-­

PARTV PlATTE~S Hor<s D'oeuvRES 
BRU~H ~lUNCHEON 
------..._4
~ ~ 


CONTACT OUR CATERlNG DEPARTMENT LAST MINUTE PARr'< PLATTERS AVAILABLE 
,. . 
• 

Friday, May 4, 1990 The Observer page 25 
Vince No-Win-Ski: Cute, you are the epitome of cute. I only wish ... 
RP 
PSYCHO: 
Sweet! (Beat by a girl!) Good luck at med school dude. I'll miss you ("I'll bet!") 
-Love, Kris 

Bill O'Mahony· Hey Tool! It's been fun! Work hard(??) next year and remember me QT! 
KRISTA, Thank you so much for such a very special year. I'll miss you so much this summer. All my love always! 
Love. John 

Wendy F. If I don't get to see you, good luck on your finals and have a great summer. MONTY PYTHON RULES Ill 
Paul. 

P.S. DON'T WORRY TOO MUCHII II! 
MANDELA: CELEBRATION OF 
A HERO a concert/celebration Friday, May 4 6-8pm Administration Building 
"He's out of jail but not yet free ..." 
John O'Brien­
! want you, but I don't like Miracle Whip. I prefer green Jell-0 in a baby pool. 
Interested? 

LOVE ELKHART. 
Nicole Farmer· First I wanted your paper. but now I want more.. 
PT 
JIM·· Thanks again for the 
lilacs and for everything. 
You are wonderfui.--K 
Wolf-Thanks for some great times. The Celtic Festival awaits! Shingales 
HEY JULIE RISTER !I! 
Hope you have a most INSPIRATIONAL B-Day MAY 5!! love ya! Kris, Kerri, and of course, Helen Steiner Rice 
Colleen, Shannon, Barb, and Celina: I want nothing else in this world than to take you all to my bed. You are the hottest, most luscious babes on campus and I cannot live without you anymore. Besides, you guys have really nice personalities. NOT. Love and wet kisses, John. 
serum bums: "girls, girls, 
girls .... watch the right, watch me 
run like a madman in those stupid 
hawaiian print shorts and score." 
hey hey paUUia, marge, and em: what a long, strange year it's been (ok, that's someone else's line, but i wanted to impress em with my DEAD-ness). i love you guys tons-­know that. always remember: "the fun is having lots to do and not doing it." friends always and forever. 
kandj: chi-chi's 2-nite. we plan what could be the koolest room in the history of womankind. i look forward to it, most definitely. 
most definitely yours, m. 
00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS 
ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12, In La Fortune (Dooley Room) I UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245 
PETE'S BREWING COMPANY LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED SPECIALTY BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383. 
PROFESSIONAL COUPLE DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL 0-31l-298-8548 OR ATTORNEY 0-317-882-9799 (ref#89-129). 
ANNA BUNGER 
GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS 
LOVE 

CLANCY 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS 
REGARDLESS OF CONDITION. 
277-9954. 
The FUTURE becomes the PRESENT, the PRESENT the PAST, & the PAST turns into EVERLASTING REGRET. 
TO TISH, LITTLE BEAR, STARBRIGHT, RINGMASTER, MAGGIE, AND THE WORLD'S GREATEST DANCING BEAR: 
Do it for Grandpa! Love, The Mime 
LAW STUDENT LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE IN D.C. THIS FALL. CALL KATHLEEN AT 1918. 
Only 7 more shopping days until DIANE TRACY'S 21st Birthday!!! 
PMS-THIS WEEK LOOK FOR DETAILS-EVERYBODY DOES IT! 
Stevey (Gargs), Good luck next year! You'd better come back next year and have some massive tailgaters. Now you can graduate with peace knowing I wrote you back. 
Love, Jeanne 

P.S. I heard there's a lecture on the electroelasticity of the multi­nucleic cellular components of an eyeball Mon. night... ......... . 
MARIANNE RAVRY, Good Luck living with your roomate next year! Ha! Ha! Ha! Have a great summer. Don't do anything I wouldn't do!!l That's not saying much. Ha! Ha! See ya soon!!!!!l 
Love, 
me 

WOMEN'S CARE CENTER A Pro-Life Pregnancy Help Center: MOTHER'S DAY CARDS Available Wed. May 2-Fri. May 4 in Dining Halls at Dinner and in Law School during lunch. Mass Card is offered as way to honor Mother's and support work of Care Center. Asking $2 donation. 

\butllike your roommates 
awhole lot better if they didn't 
show up on your phone bill. 
john called Chicago. Andy called LA Or was that Pete? 
Don't sweat it. Sorting out roommates is easy when you get Jfl'&T Call Manager Service. Because with it, you can all get your long distance charges listed separately, even though you share the same phone number. And it costs you nothing. 
To find out more about the free AT&T Gall Manager Service, dial 1 800 222-0300, ext. 600. It'll make both your bills and your roommates much easier to live with. 
This service may not be available in all residence halls on your campus. 
ATI.T 
© 1990AT&T 

The right choice. 

THE COUNTRY HARVESTER WILL BE OPEN THIS SUMMER I 239-6714 
GREAT GIFTS IN A NEAT SHOP LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
FOR SALE: One way ticket South Bend to Boston departing May 21. Best Offer. Call Laura x3484 
JK, 
You've made this year very special. I'm gonna miss you so much this summer. Looking forward to Fri. nitel Love, MS 
NICE TRY META MUCILS!!I Congratulations Amy Bundens, Mary Beth Cook, Beth Morrison and Laura Brown--We may not have won but at least we lived up to our ~arne last week! I know I feel about five pounds lighter! 
P.S. Remember when you're sliding into first and you're feeling something burst... ... 
--your pal Mol 
BOSTON CLUB MEMBERS The truck will load behind the bookstore on Friday, May 11, from 11 :OOam to 3:00pm. 
For Sale: Stereo Speakers Stereo Cabinet Amp, Equalizer, Phone, Tuner Tape Deck. Excellent Condition, Price Call271-5681 
Happy graduation and happy 
summer to alii Love, Amy Copy Center 
PJR-
Thanks for another great year! It will be a long summer, but I know we'll make it.... 
Love always, Kathryn 
Jenny, 
Thanks for making 308 PW a really fun place to live this semester. You're an awesome roomie! 
KP 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB Baggage Truck Loading: Friday, May 11 NO fOam-2:30pm @Stepan Courts SMC 3-4 @Lemans bus stop ?'s-Call Kevin (3341) 
Mike (1803) 
Have we got a deal lor you! COUCH, our best, for just $25! Not one, but two, brown CARPETS. We're talking plush. $15 each. 
C.F.S. Thank you for the last 4 years. I loved spending them with you, and I am looking forward to the next four. 
I love you. T.J. 
Need guys to coach FARLEY football, hoops, and softball call Aimee x4222 
CONGRATULATIONS KEENAN SOCCER: NVA Spring Tournament Champions; 7 wins, 0 losses, 0 goals against. Roster: Kelly Terrill, Kevin McKay, Pat McClanahan, Brian Geraghty, Kevin McCor-mell, Jeff Berthold, Ben Nichols, Aaron Bullwinkle, Tony Dill, Derek Dobecki, Pat Sheehan, Lawlor Quinlan, Greg Swihura, Tony Yokum, Steve Zayko, Keith Clemments, John Vandevalde, Mike Pearl, Brian Tierney, George 
-
Dailey, Frank Parigi, and Honarary Keenanite Liam Logan 
Thank You Immaculate Heart of Jesus, Blessed Mother Mary and St. Jude for all favors granted during my academic career. Always Pray. With God All things are possible. 
To the Defenders of Good and 
their Farley Following: Thanks for an awesome year! I'm going to miss your love and your smiles! Good luck next year! You're terrific! 
-A Lewisite bound for Erin 
CHRISTINE (BEBE KID)­This is the last time I'm giving you a personal! As the 
time draws closer to graduation, I want you to know that this is ONLY THE 
BEGINNING. All my love, BRIAN 
Mr. Bunny, 
I WUV U! And somebody else tool And I'm gonna miss him 'cause he's my dude! GOO!! 
WUV,Me 
see CLASS I page 5 


------~---------­

~­
page 26 The Observer Friday, May 4, 1990 
Former walk-on Lund now a leader behind the plate 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

How many people know that the captain of the Notre Dame baseball team was a walk-on? 
The Irish team. filled with freshmen and sophomore re­cruits who ooze with talent and anticipate potential pro ca­reers, is captained by a player who was not asked in any way to play baseball for the Fighting Irish. 
That former freshman hope­ful is senior catcher Ed Lund, the cornerstone of this year's team. 
"People forget that Ed Lund was a walk-on player at Notre Dame and that he just fell in love with the game," says third­year coach Pat Murphy. "He was put into catcher, a position he wasn't used to. and has done an outstanding job." 
This versatile athlete played outfield at St. Francis lligh School in Pasadena, Calif., although catcher has always been his first love. When he came to Notre Dame hoping to make the baseball team, he tried out at every position. 
"I came in here just hoping to make the team. so I tried out everywhere," says Lund. "I al­ways loved catcher, a position I've always wanted to play. You're in on every pitch, block­ing balls at the plate. I like ev­erything about catching, and I think that's what I do best." 
The pitching squad's statis­tics can attest to that. The team earned run average stands at 2.86, the fourth-low­est in the country. Three of the five main starters on the team are freshmen, and Lund's expe­rience has helped them in their process of maturation. 
"It has been extremely impor­tant to have a catcher behind the plate to have so much expe­rience," says Murphy. "The pitchers feel so confident with Ed Lund back there. That really helped the team, especially in the beginning of the season. He's like the Rock of Gibraltar back there." 
The Irish pitchers echo Murphy's sentiments. Freshman Dave Sinnes, who is leading the nation in ERA at 
0. 73, has nothing but compli­ments for the senior leader. 
"His presence behind the plate helps me concentrate and 
Track 
continued from page 28 

for IC4A bids this weekend. Included in this group are Ryan Cahill jn the 5000 meters, Shawn Schneider and J.T. Burke in the 1500 meters,
-
Brian Peppard in the 800, Rob Fitzgerald in the shot put and Stewart in the javelin. After the Central Collegiates, the Irish will travel to the Illini Invitational on May 12. Those who have qualified will travel to New Haven, Conn. for the IC4As May 19 and 20. The season will climax with the NCAA Championships, held from June 30 until July 2 in Durham, N.C. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
Support the 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-
focus a little better," says Sinnes. "If I make a bad pitch he'll let me know about it, and he gives that extra help that comes from being a senior and a great leader." 
Lund's experience reaches further back than the Murphy's winning tradition. Lund played his freshman year under former coach Larry Gallo, when the Irish went 15-29 for a .341 winning percentage. Since then, under Murphy Notre Dame has compiled a 123-51 record, or a .707 mark. 
In other words, Lund has seen it all. 
"It has been advantageous for us (the seniors) to see how far we've come," says Lund. "We know how it is to lose and not to get the best out of our ability, and maybe that's our jobs as seniors to say this is the way it's got to be or it will be like it was. 
"The better way is to put in everything you can and get the most out of it. If you're going to put this much time in. you might as well go all-out to make it worth it." 
"My expectations have defi­nitely changed since my junior year," says Lund. ''I'm hoping to get drafted and play in pro­fessional ball. That's what I've wanted since my junior year, but right now, I can't worry about that. That is out of my hands. Right now I'm worried about this team. I want Notre Dame baseball to do as well as it can." 

The team is on track to do just that, which at 36-10 has a shot at the NCAA tournament. Lund himself is batting .294 with four home runs, 24 RBis and a team-leading 12 doubles. His on-base percentage is .441 and he has swiped 11 bases this season. 
One more aspect of Lund's game deserves mention, and that's his cannon on his right shoulder. The Irish have stolen 111 bases this season versus their opponent's 49, a testi­mony to other teams' respect for Lund's lightning-bolt arm. 
"It's quite incredible that other teams have run so little against us," says Murphy. "It's because of his outstanding rep­utation. I feel that he's going to be a solid pro player in the fu­ture. There's no question he'll be drafted." 
Having made great strides in baseball at Notre Dame, Lund hopes to keep the momentum rolling with a shot at the big leagues. 
~00~ 
~ <!il ®UJ[? ~ 
ffi)@ffi ~ 8llg 
Lovelrom, 
Mom, Anne, 
andMame 

The Observer I John Studebaker 
Catcher Ed Lund, who began his Notre Dame baseball career as a walk-on, now captains the Irish from behind the plate. 

• 


Friday, May 4, 1990 
The Observer page 27 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. Film, "A Dry White Season," An­nenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communications and Theatm. Admission. 
8 & 10:15 p.m. Film, "!leathers." Cushing Audito­rium. Admission $2. Sponsored by SUB. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Friday 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Complex Analysis for Heal Hadon Transform," Professor Gennadi Henkin, Academy of Science of the USSH, Central Economic and Mathematical Institute, Moseow. Hoom 226 Mathematics Building. Re­freshments in Hoom 2 at 4 p.m. Sponsored by Department of Mathematics and Office of the Provost. 

28 Goddess of vegetation 29 Removed by an editor 30 Napery 32 Salt, to a pharmacist 34 M'aidez' 37 Makes over 38 Kind of horse or camel 
SPELUNKER 
39 Handcuff 47 Waves' org. 
53 NY stadium condition 54 Township of Attica 
40Wretched 
41 Calorie counters 
55 Weird-sounding42 Herpetologist's lake subject 56 Soot or coal 43 One who grabs dust the tab 
58 Broadhorn 44 Shakespeare's 60 Le Gallienne or CLIV Gabor 
JAY HOSLER 
MENUS Notre Dame 

Make Your Own Taeo Bar Mushroom Quiche Veg11tablns Marinara Pi11rson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Pnrehed Fish Cheese Enchiladas Cal zone Deli 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
1\-\E KIDS TE.~'St.D ME 'tMffi 
I /)f{)N'r PtA'{ B~st.Bt-.Ll. 1Wc.N. 11\1:.~ '(E.LL£0 fl..T M~ 'tl\..\E.t-1 I. f)/0 PlA'(. n\EN nlE. TEAC\.\ER CMlfD tilE. fl.. "QlJint.R" 'MHEJ-.1 t STOPPE.D 
Plt>..~INC,.. 

ACROSS 31 Dangerous African flies 
1 Mollify 33 Ceases
a Appetizers 15 Government 35 Bern's stream 

16 Milky glass 36 Chaney of silent films
17 Famous 18 Old soldier 37 Meanders 19 Shrewd 41 Mojave and Gobi 20 Clocked 
45 You were: Lat. 22 Roof edge 
46 Calamary23 NOW's goal 
48 Rome's hot 24 Slit 
fiddler 25 Children's game 
49 Truck 
26 Fondles so Operate

28 Yielded 51 Female swan
30 Melodious Horne 52 Down with!: Fr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

S!I"Divine Comedy" poet 56 Satirist Freberg 57 An archangel 59 Hermit 61 Capital of Sicily 62 Brook 63 Jogger's footwear 64 Ushers 
DOWN 
1 Rule of conduct 2 Roman hostile 
spirits 3Stir 4 Movie theater, in 
Madrid 
5 Soul, to Sartre 6 Tupik, e.g. 7 Emulates Circe 8 Broke a certain Commandment 9 Mimicked 10 Pendleton of old films 
11 Opposite of aweather 12 Henry Morgan's men 13 Forward!: Fr. 
14 Milkworts' dried roots 
27 Pierces 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 





Sports 
Friday, May 4, 1990
page 28 


Just Grazing 

Trainer D. Wayne Lukas gives Kentucky Derby entry Real Cash a chance to exercise and graze in preparation for Saturday's annual race. Lukas has three horses entered in the Derby. 
Xavier visits for doubleheaders 
Irish track plays host to Central Collegiates 
By KEN TYSIAC events, I know there are pule Associate Sports Editor vaulters from Purdue and a high jumper from Illinois State 
Moose Krause Stadium will who have already qualified for be abuzz with excitement as NCAAs. so there will be strong Notre Dame hosts the Central competition in those events." Collegiate Outdoor Track and Notre Dame 11nished 11fth in Field Championships Saturday the Central Collegiate Indoor beginning at 2 p.m. Championships february 9-10 
Schools from the Big 10, Mid­at Milwaukee, but Piane hopes Atlantic, Midwestern Collegiate his team can do even better and Missouri Valley conferences tomorrow. will be represented in the meet. "Our goals as a team are to Notre Dame Head Coach Joe score as many points as we Piane says that one of his possibly can and improve on team's goals will be to qualify our fifth-place indoor finish," more athletes for the IC4A and says Piane. NCAA championships in what The strongest Irish perfor­should be a competitive meet. mances should come from se­
Piane claims that the team to nior co-captain Mike O'Connor watch in the Central Collegiates in the 1500 meters and junior is Eastern Michigan. Purdue, John Cole in the high jump. Michigan State and Wisconsin Javelin throwers Matt are also expected to run well. DeAngelis and Jon Stewart are 
"It should be a great overall also expected to gain points for track meet," says Piane. "there Notre Dame. will be in the neighborhood of Piane says there are several 20 teams competing, so we Irish athletes who could qualify should have strong competition in every event. In the field see TRACK I page 26 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO least one team in the nationals 
Assistant Sports Editor every year. "I hope that people definitely 
"We've just begun. Now it's understand what a blow it (the put-up time, and we're in the NCAA decision) is for us," said position we want to be in." Murphy. "I hope we get the 
These are the words of Pat support from them, and I think Murphy, the head coach of the we'll get it (the automatic bid) Notre Dame baseball team. back. I think we can put enough Although the pessimists have pressure on them to get it all but dismissed the Irish this back." year, it is an indisputable fact This weekend MCC foe Xavier that this group of overachievers comes to town for a pair of is 36-10, on pace to finish with doubleheaders at Jake Kline the best winning percentage for Field. The twin bills will be a Notre Dame baseball team played on noon on Saturday since 1936. This is for a team and Sunday. Next weekend, that is not fully endowed and May 12-13, Detroit pays a visit usually has less players on to Jake Kline Field to wrap up scholarship than its opponent. Notre Dame's regular season 
The NCAA tournament selec­with four more games. tion committee has decided this Notre Dame took three of season that the MCC tourna­four from Xavier in its previous ment winner will not receive an encounter in Cincinnati, Ohio on automatic bid to the tourna­April 14-15. Against Detroit, ment. This stands in contrast the Irish blanked the Titans in to previous years, when the MCC could claim to have at see XAVIER I page 21 
Intensity of 'Petro' vital to Iris~ 
B MIKE KAMRADT ude," explained Piotrow1cz. slarts Writer · "The mental aspect that he gets acress is outstanding. The 
The eyes of Brian Piotrowicz 
preparation and mental tough­tell the w.hole story. Those eyes ness he instills in his players are intense; they have the look really comes into play when the of a real competitor. game is on the line. I'm able to 
"His temperament is unbe­adapt to tough situations. Now lievable," says coach Pat I feel I can win against any­Murphy. "He's the greatest body." pitcher in Notre Dame history Things didn't begin well for as far as what I've heard Piotrowicz during his sopho­about. He's part of every al­more year as he began the sea­most every career record. He's son 0-3, but his belief in himself a mainstay.'' and Murphy's confidence saw 
One look through the record Brian Plotrowlcz him through a tough time. book affirms Murphy's asser­"It was a frustrating time tion as 'Petro's' name turns up was like a dream come true to and I was having some mental in almost every category. He's get a scholarship here." problems," said Piotrowicz, the career leader in wins (25), When he came during the fall "but the biggest thing coach games started (50) and innings of 1986, the Irish baseball pro­was trying to get across to us pitched (319.3). He's also gram wasn't in the best of was to believe in ourselves. among the leaders in appear­straits. After that third loss I was con­ances. complete games, strike­"With Coach Gallo here the ditioning in the outfield and outs and ERA. program wasn't on the rise," Murph came out and said 'Stick 
A native of nearby North recalled Piotrowicz. " Still, I with it, hang in there. We're Liberty, In., Piotrowicz couldn't was able to participate right going to have a great year and help think about a career at away and contribute. It was a you'll be a big part of it all.' Notre Dame while he was star­good opportunity as far as That really stuck with me." ring at South Bend's school and baseball." Piotrowicz finished the year Washington High School. The fortunes of the Irish and in a big way by winning his last 
• 
"I definitely had the dream of Piotrowicz started to turn seven decisions, including a no­playing here when I was grow­around with the arrival of hitter against Ball St., to go 7­ing up," said Piotrowicz. "I al­Murphy. 3. ways loved the university and "The bottom line (with followed the football team. It Murphy's arrival) was atti-see PETRO I page 23 

Loss to Miami heads list of year's important stories 
Today's center spread high­
lights the Top 10 sports stories 
of 1989-90. 
From top to bottom, there 
were no clear-cut choices. The 
top story last year was easy 
after Notre Dame won its 
I
eighth national championship. 

This year was tougher. 
This is by no means a com­Greg Guffey
plete list. There were many Sports Editor 
other big sports stories during 
the past year. This is simply a 
composite of the top stories chosen by the executive sports 
staff at The Observer. 
Here are some of the reasons why the 10 stories in the 
center spread merit special attention. 
1. 
When Notre Dame lost 27-10 at Miami, it not only ended the 23-game win streak for the Irish, but it also cost them the national title. This was the most-hyped game of the year. While the game itself may not have lived up to those stan­dards, the end result regarding the national title makes this the biggest story of the year. 

2. 
Notre Dame made history with its five-year television pact with NBC. The network will broadcast 11ve years of Notre Dame football beginning in 1991. This turned into one of the biggest national sports stories off the field, with sev­eral members of the CFA publicly voicing their displeasure when the Irish strayed from the organization and its new contract with ABC. This may have longer lasting effects than the Miami game, but within the context of one year, the Miami story was bigger. 


see TOP 10 I page 22 






