
VOL. XXIII NO. 82 MONDAY FEBRUARY 5, 198U 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND hosts first annual Catholic College conference 
Archbishop of Milwaukee challenges Catholic youth 
By JOHN CRONIN 
News Writer 
Archbishop Rembert Weak­land of Milwaukee discussed how the many changes in the world today present a new challtmge to young Catholics to rethink their views and recreate the future. 
In his Friday keynote ad­dress. Weakland commenced the first annual National Asso­ciation of Students at Catholic Col11~ges and Universities con­ference hnld at Notre Dame this past weekend. 
Weakland stressed the im­portance of the spirit of to­gnthernnss and challenged Catholic students to put aside narrow-minded views and make a contribution to the world. 
"I don't think today we should do anything as Catholics, espe­cially with regard to education, unless we do it ecumenically, " stated Weakland. However, Weakland pointed out several obstacles Catholics must over­come if they ever hope to live in a world of peace and love. 
"I fear that most Catholics to­day are more concerned about reforming the Church than to be out there... it is the world which we must contribute to and be our true vocation," added Weakland. 
However, the future of the Church should not be an ag­gressive evangelizing of the world, as if Catholics have all the answers, but rather a hum­ble approach that includes open dialogue, according to Weakland. 
He touched on the political changes across the globe, par­ticularly in Eastern Europe, Central America and South Africa, and the role of the Church in these changes. 
But there are other cultural changes that Weakland sees in the world, he believes that peo­ple are beginning to reexamine, and maybe even reject, the tra­dition that has formed their ideals. 
"As we begin to reevaluate that heritage, I sense that there is a new role for faith and reli­gion which we haven't experi­enced before," stated Weakland. The perception of the world is changing resulting in a blending of theology and sciences, a yearning for a new moral code, 
see CATHOLIC I page 4 


Heft denounces any limitations of academic freedom 

By BETSY PUNSALAN 
News Writer 

"Any limitation of academic freedom is inju­
rious to the academic standing of a univer­
sity," Father James Heft, provost at the 
University of Dayton, said to the first annual 
conference of the National Association of 
Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities 
(NASCCU). 

Heft's Saturday lecture addressed NACCSU's 
proposed document on academic freedom and 
he stressed the importance of incorporating 
the secular notion of academic freedom into 
the religious tradition at Catholic universities. 
Academic freedom at Catholic universities 
should involve the right to explore all ideas, 
even if theY. are secular or run counter to 
Catholicism. Catholic universities, Heft said, 
should be "places where all ideas can be en­
countered and thm,\ght through" and should 
allow for "exploration and evaluation of all 
ideas in light of the Catholic tradition." 
Heft likened the Catholic university to an 
open circle: circumscribed to delineate 
Catholic tradition, yet open to different per­
spectives of other traditions to keep dialogue 
honest and uninhibited. 
"I think 'Catholic university' is a redun­
dancy," Heft said in rebuttal to the traditional 
thought that religiously affiliated colleges !'are 
see NASCCU I page 5 

NO's Williams and Walshe disagree on solution to apartheid in S. Africa 

By GREG LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
South African President F.W. deKlerk's announcement of plans for broad reforms in South Africa on Friday has generated various reactions among Notre Dame faculty members. 
In an historic speech, deKlerk legalized the African National Congress (ANC) and promised the rapid release of Nelson Mandela, who has served nearly three decades of a life sentence for helping to plan the start of the ANC's sabotage and bomb­ing campaign against the gov­ernment. 
In addition, deKlerk partially lifted the 3.5-year-old state of emergency by placing a mora­torium on executions and lifting restrictions on hundreds of individuals and scores of anti­apartheid organizations. 
"I think deKlerk's recent moves are extremely hopeful, but only a first step," said Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate provost. 
"The heart of apartheid is still there," Williams added, citing the continued existence of mandatory race registration at birth and the absence of political and social rights for blacks. 

Williams is a proponent of battling apartheid with strate­gic sanctions. This approach employs a plurality of strate­gies, which are designed to tar­get white owners, while mini­mizing negative effects on the working blacks. 
Williams leaves today for a ten-day trip to South Africa to compile information for a yearly report that is given to 
U.S. companies as to how they can best work together to strengthen the forces for change in South Africa. · 
Specifically, Williams pointed 


Models in training 
The Observer/E.G: Bailey 
Members of the Black Cultural Arts Festival practice their modeling stance for their upcoming fashion show Sat. Feb. 10. 
to the 1986 Anti-Apartheid Act's ban on the landing of planes from South Africa Airways in the United States and banning new bank loans as measures that "put pressure on the right people," without greatly harming the blacks. 
Peter Walshe, professor of government and international studies and director of the University's African studies program, also hailed the steps taken by deKlerk this weekend, but added that it was "only un­der intense pressure that deK­lerk came to the negotiating table." 
It's good to see such changes taking place, but it's "sad that Notre Dame, with its policy of investment, has not contributed to the changes," said Walshe, who is a vocal advocate of di­vestment. 
Williams said that wl).ile sup­porters of a total withdrawal of all foreign businesses from South Africa have served to in­crease the awareness of Americans to the "evil" of apartheid, he questioned "how much these moves aid in the removal of apartheid laws-the ultimate goal." 
"The disinvestment lobby ha,s 
_ see S. AFRICA I page 5 

Iceberg Debates to get underway tonight 
ByJOEMOODY 
News Writer 
The legalization of drugs will be the topic debated in the first two rounds of the second an­nual Notre Dame Iceberg Debates which begins tonight throughout the dorms. 
The Iceberg Debates are an interhall series held in every dorm ·each year between Christmas and Spring Break. 
The central idea is not so much of a debate competition, but rather an exhibition of how debating works while opening discussion on many important topics of social justice, said Matthew Thiel, chairman of the debates. 
"Our goal this year is to con­centrate on having every stu­dent become involved, if not by debating, then at least by watching the debates or merely discussing the issues on their own," said Thiel. 
Every dorm has a four-person team consisting of two from the dorm, one from campus, and another from the opposite sex. Each team will compete in their specified place tonight at 9p.m.. 
The second round, also at 9 p.m., will be on Wednesday. The resoluti&! for both the first and second rounds is "That the use of narcotic drugs should be made legal in the United States." The reason that the first two rounds will have the same topic is that the debates are close together and it wollJd be difficult for the teams to ri!.­
see DEBATE I page o 


~------------------------------------------------~-----------------------~-­
• 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Americans 
not a-lways 



appreciative 

1989 was a year of ---------------­great change, and 1990 may make change a world trend. Just this year, formerly staunch Communist govern­ments were voted out of power, millions of oppressed people in Eastern Europe be­came free, and thou­sands of Soviets got --------------­their first taste of McDonald's fast food. 
In case anyone missed it, McDonald's opened its first restaurant in the Soviet Union last Wednesday. This latest venture makes the USSR the fifty-second country with a McDonald's. 
The CBS Evening News thought the event so important that Dan Rather flew to Moscow to broadcast from the new McDonald's on Thursday, the same night as the State of the Union address. 
On its first day, the world's largest McDonald's served up 30,000 meals. The fare approximated American fast food as closely as possible, with "gamburgers" (the Hussian alphabet has no "h"), "chizburgers" and "filay-o-feesh" sandwiches. 
Comparisons aside, thousands of Mus­covites waited in line for hours to pay about $6 for a "Beeg Mak." You wouldn't pay half that much for a Big Mac anywhere in the United States. 
Americans could learn a few things from their Soviet friends, such as patience and appreciation. Most of us do not realize how lucky we are. 
Imagine ordering a Big Mac, fries and a Coke at a McDonald's in, say, Chicago, and getting a bill for $16. 
No self-respecting American would pay it. 

Now imagine going to the same restaurant 
and having to wait in line for an hour. 
No American who ever ate fast food 

would wait longer than 15 minutes. 
Nevertheless, the Soviets who lined up to 

get a taste of American culture didn't mind 
waiting for hours and paying lots of money. 
Moreover, they were happy to do it. 
In a country where convenience is ex­

pected and options are standard, there 
should be few complaints. But some Ameri­
eans are never satisfied; everything must be 
their way. 
That doesn't mean, of course, that we 

should accept everything as it happens. 
Americans should grumble less than they 
do; they shouldn't expect things to always 
turn out their way. 
Americans, by birth or naturalization, do 

not have an intrinsic right to expect 
anything. 
Hather than moan about waiting in line 

and take convenience for granted, Ameri­
cans should be thankful that they can eat 
Grade A Egg McMuffins and stir Half 'n 
Half into fresh coffee. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7 4 71 
Today's Staff: 

Spor1s  News  Syslams  
Ken Tysiac  Kelley Tuthill  Amalia Meier  
Monica Yant  Dan Towers  
Producllon  Pete Loftus  
Joe Zadrozny  a...­ 
Beth Peterson  Liz Panzica  
Aeon  Maureen Gallagher  
Colleen Cronin  Lauren Deluca  
Vlewpc*ll  Cristina Ortiz  
MikeTruppa  Liz Havel  Graphics  
John Cronin  Laura Stanton  

rhe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday lllrough Fridav except during exam and vacalion periods. The ~ ·oserver is a member of lhe Associated Press. All reproduction 
hts are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, February 5, 1990 
WEATHER 

Forecast tor noon, Monday, Feb. 5. Lines show high temperatures. 
40 30 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~ ~ [I] ~ 0 X
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

Off-campus government majors pick up impor­tant information from the department in 314 O'Shaugnessy as soon as possible. Ask for it at the front desk. 
Summer employment applications are now available for summer hall manager (full-time), in the Office of Student Hesidences, 311 Administration Building. Deadline for return of applications is March 15. 
Observer photographers (SMC). Any Saint Mary's student interested in working as a photographer for The Observer please call Susy at 284-4352. 
WoRLD 

A debt reduction agreement was signed by Mexico and its commercial bank creditors Sunday in Mexico City that was praised as an example for other indebted nations and the result of the government's eco­nomic reforms. U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady laid the groundwork for the agreement a year ago by offering debt forgiveness in exchange for economic reforms in developing countries. 
NATIONAL 

Faulty circuit breakers at a nuclear power plant in Berwick, Pa. caused cooling-water temperatures to rise and triggered a low-level alert for more than six hours Saturday, but no radiation was released, officials said. "It is not all that serious," said Karl Abraham, a spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. "There is no threat to the public at all or to the workers in the plant." The circuit breakers failed during a routine safety check at the plant, which had been shut down since Thursday because of another problem, and a valve on a 
cooling-water line did not reopen. 
INDIANA 

ROTC may be cut from DePauw University in Greencastle because of Pentagon policies that they say discriminate against homosexuals. De­Pauw's faculty, which usually decides on aca­demic curriculum, also plans to consider a plan that would require university officials to work to change the military's policy that bans homosexu­als from service. 
A Fort Wayne bail bondsman was found guilty of prostitution and racketeering Sunday after a 14-day trial in Allen Superior Court. Jack Lee faces up to 16 years in prison. Also, an ob­struction-of-justice charge was filed last week against Steven Bender, who resigned last month as Fort Wayne regional director of the Hoosier Lottery. Bender, who admitted to investigators that he was a customer at Lee's Tender Touch massage parlor, disappeared last month after he was subpoenaed to appear as a witness in Lee's trial. 
On Feb. 5: 

e In 1917: Congress passed, Volume In shares over President Wilson's veto, an 
164.40 Million 

immigration act severely cur­
tailing the influx of Asians. e In 1937: President Franklin Hoosevelt proposed adding up 
tt 1.23 


to six more justices to the U.S. Supreme Court, resulting in ac­cusations that he was trying to "pack" the court with members who would side with his New Deal legislation. (The Senate defeated the proposal the fol­lowing July.) e In 1958: Gamel Abdel 
Nasser was formally nominated 
Source: AP 

to become the first president of the new United Arab Republic. 
Classical guitarist Jay Kauffman will perform a solo recital, today at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The recital is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Music. 
A mass sponsored by Emmaus: A Community with the Mentally Handicapped will be celebrated on Sunday, February 11 at 2 p.m. in Moreau Seminary Chapel. A social hour follows. All persons interested in the mentally handicapped are welcome. 
East Germany's Communist Party on Sunday changed its name and promised to hand over $600 million in assets to the government in an apparent attempt to improve its image ahead of coming elections. Also Sunday in West Berlin, West Germany's foreign minister promised to seek immediate financial aid to stabilize East GPr­many's economy while it adopts dernocratie reforms that could lead to reunification. 
The federal detention center in Miami where Manuel Noriega awaits trial in an isolation cell has held other notorious defendants and seen some spectacular escape attempts, including two by helicopter. But officials say they don't expect any trouble keeping the deposed Panama dictator behind bars at the Metropolitan Correc­tional Center. Colombian drug traffickers, hijackers, ter­rorists, gun-runners for the Contras, embezzlers and Third World military figures have called the overcrowded prison home. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for February 2, 1990 
S&P Composite 330.92 tt 2.13 Dow Jones Industrials 2602.70 .0. 16.44 
Precious Metals Gold tt $0.20 to $418.20/ oz. 
Silvertt 1.0¢ to $5.338 I oz. 
Yesterday's high: 28 Yesterday's low: 24 Nation's high: 87 (West Palm Beach, Daytona Beach, Melbourne, Fla.) Nation's low: -15 (Caribou, and Houlton, Me.) 
Forecast: Sunny and much warmer today. High in the middle to upper 40s. Fair and not as cold tonight with lows around 30 . 

Monday, February 5, 1990 The Observer page 3 
ND SafeWalk begins escort service tonight 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 
SafeWalk, Notre Dame's stu­dent escort service, will make its trial run tonight. 
According to Gina Mahoney, coordinator of Notre Dame SafeWalk, the service will oper­ate seven days a week. The hours are 7 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sun­day through Thursday, and 7 
p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday and Sat­urday. 
The original idea was to run the service five nights a week, but Mahoney said that the re­sources were available so the service was expanded. 
"The service will include the parking lots and Senior Bar," said Mahoney. "We prefer to escort one or two people, male or female, but it is our policy to never turn anybody down." 
The escorts will operate in pairs and will wear bright blue reflective vests and will carry flashlights, Mahoney said. They will also carry radios which will be monitored by Notre Dame Security. 
Each night there will be a dispatcher who operates from the Information Desk in LaFor­tune Student Center. The phone number for the service is 283­BLUE. according to Mahoney. 
In addition to calling Safe­Walk. student may get an escort by simply going to the desk in LaFortune, or ask an escort while he or she is pa­trolling the campus. 
A minimum of four escorts will be on duty each evening, she said. On certain nights and certain shifts, there will be three or more pairs of escorts. 
The service presently employs 48 paid escorts and has several volunteers, including 20 Eagle Scouts of Notre Dame, said Mahoney. 
Mahoney said, "Senior Jim Schilder has been a tremendous help." Schilder is co-coordina­tor for Notre Dame SafeWalk, and student representative to the University ad-hoc commit­tee on parking. 
The escorts were trained to be extra eyes and ears on cam­pus by Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. If escorts notice anything out of the ordi­nary while on the job they are instructed to call Security. 
Training for the escorts oc­curred during a two-hour in­formation session in which policies and guidelines for the service were discussed. All escorts are expected to be fa­miliar with SafeWalk's hand­book of policies and guidelines, she said. 
Although the escorts have certain duties, they "are not authorized to act in a con­frontational way," said Ma­honey. 



The Observer 

is looking for an enthusiastic student for the following paid position: 
Associated Press Courier -must have car -will train 
If you're interested, call Regis Coccia at 239-5313. 


Jazzmania, a professional jazz trio, played to fans in Washington Hall Sunday. Ed Wiseman (left), bass player, jams with guest Cincinnati jazz trumpet virtuoso Pat Harbison. 
ND to send card to senior needing surgery 
By LIZ HOLTZ News Writer 

To show support from the Notre Dame community, a group of students will be circu­lating a large card around campus for signatures to send to Carlos Petrozzi, a senior at Notre Dame who has been di­agnosed with a type of cancer called medullo blastoma. 
Petrozzi will undergo a sec­ond bone marrow transplant in May. His sister, Ursula, who matches his tissue antigens perfectly, will be the donor for the second time. 
Notre Dame accounting pro­fessor James Ward, who started the project said, "The goal is to have every Notre Dame student sign the card. There will be multiple pages and different sheets will go to each dorm and possibly to LaFortune for off-campus stu­dents." 
Matt Breslin, student body president, stressed that the en­


___Ihe~Obsener_­
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTSManager Controller Art Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to A1ison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 

tire student body is needed. "It is really important that every­one supports this project. Student Government is one hundred percent behind it," said Breslin. 
The Hall President's Council is the means of communication Breslin hopes to use for infor­mation regarding when and where the card will be available for signing. 
"The Administration doesn't give the students enough credit, and there is so much energy there. The students will rally and get the card signed because the students are the ones doing all the work," said Ward. 
Petrozzi's younger twin sis­ters, Claudia and Ursula, sophomores at Notre Dame, will be transporting the card from Notre·Dame to Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. 
Petrozzi was diagnosed as having medullo blastoma in June 1985. It is a tumor that originates in the cerebellum that can spread outside of the nervous system. Petrozzi presently has no evidence of nervous system involvement, but has developed metastasis (cancer) around the right shoulder. 
Currently, Petrozzi is under­going chemotherapy that will be followed by local radiation therapy in the right shoulder. This will eventually lead to massive chemotherapy with bone marrow rescue (transplant) for the second time. A bone marrow trans­plant is the only hope for cure for this tumor. 
Claudia Petrozzi expressed the magnitude of the role the students will play in the follow­ing months. "I believe the role of the students is much larger then most realize. My brother's spirit will be incredibly lifted by this effort, a unity that symbol­izes the Notre Dame family. Carlos depends on this family and needs it in order to help him successfully continue to battle the cancer." 
The organizers of the large card drive for signatures hope this will remain a secret to Carlos until the card is deliv­ered to him. People are wel­come to send Carlos cards di­rectly, but it would be appreci­ated if the large card was not mentioned. 
Cards may be sept to Carlos Petrozzi, 2887 Woodcreek Way, Bloomfield Hills, MI 48013. 

HalfOfThisYear's Medical School ClassGotThere WithOurHelp. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years ofexperience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, ifmedical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
fiSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
& Talo! KaplanOrTakeYour O!ances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
~--------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
The Observer

Page 4 


'\"\ 


.. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey Student representatives from Catholic schools such as Franciscan Universi_ty, Dayton, Depaul, and John Carroll, discuss issues during the NASCCU conference held at Notre Dame thrs past weekend. 


Catholic 
continued from page 1 
the questioning of whether progress is really progress, and if all knowledge is good in it­self, he said. "In the future we will see a new kind of integration of faith and...other knowledge," added Weakland. 
Weakland said that fear is the only obstacle which prevents Catholics from taking up the challenge and playing a new role that could be played in the next few decades. The Catholic Church, as an in­stitution, has many fears, in Weakland's opinion. lie cites the fear of relativism, the problem of retaining its identity while out on the "main stage of the world," and the fear of the secularization of faith-that faith will become merely philan­thropy. 
Likewise Catholic laypeople have their own set of fears, said Weakland. lie acknowl­edged the serious fear of aca­demic freedom, the topic of the weekend's conference. He said that he senses that young peo­ple fear the Church is keeping certain knowledge from them. 

In order to overcome fear and cope with the world Weak­land said that Catholics must not divide themselves into "structure and hierarchy," laypeople and clergy. "Laypeople are just as respon­sible for the faith as I am. We will never get anywhere if we are 'we and they' in the Church," stated Weakland. "We must be 'we'." 
Monday, February 5, 1990 

Conference finale centers around future 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 

The University of Notre Dame wrapped up the first-annual 
conference  of  the  National  
Association  of  Students  at  
Catholic  Colleges  and  

Universities (NASCCU) with a "General Session on the Academic Freedom Document". 
Sunday's meeting began with the committee's Kristi Kercher of the University of Dayton and its newly elected Vice-President Dave Averill of John Carroll University outlining of upcom­ing plans for the group and its regional conferences. 
First on the agenda was a survey that was passed out to the members that asked for ideas for the group's position paper that will be published and ideas for future work. Tlw surveys will be returned February 23, edited, and final­ized before NASCCU's National Conference in 1991. 
Kercher said, "what we'd likP. to do is utilize our research persons by giving them four or five new topics to research this year." After a majority vote, the committee deleted such sug­gested topics as clergy versus lay professors, tuition, review­ing NASCCU's constitution, spirituality at a Catholic insti­tution. and career choices. 
One member justified the deletion of these topics as being more concerned with freedom of student life rather than aca­demic concerns. 
Seven topics were agreed upon to be reviewed by the re­gional committees. These in­clude a study of Catholic uni­versities and colleges mission statements, the idea of cultural diversity, sexuality at Catholic institutions, dealing with the environment. the role of' women in Catholic institutions, volun­teerism, and educational free­dom. 
The meeting ended with a brief speech by each regional director stating what they have been working on and what needs to be accomplislwd. Hegion four director .John Mrachek of St. .John's University stressed the need "to get other schools in the group." 
As of now not all of' the 225 Catholic colleges and universi­ties in the U.S. are represented. .J.P. Maclntyrn of' the University of Dayton suggested that "we need to get more ideas to the public." 
The thn~e day event was eon­eluded with a noon mass cele­brated by Father Theodorn llesburgh in the Alumni Hall chapel. 


Get noticed. Advertise in The Observer. 
Student Government 
needs volunteers to help compile Faculty Course Evaluation handbook 
College Editors: (1 each from Arts and Letters, Business, Engineering, and Science)-will have leading role in evaluating information for inclusion in handbook 
Assistant Editors: will assist College Editors in evaluating student comments about teachers and courses 
for more information contact Glenn Abeln at #1521 
UDE 
Monday, February 5, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Winnie Mandela calls for further reform in South Africa 

PAARL, South Africa (AP) ­Serious obstacles still block the release of Nelson Mandela and the white-led government must be pressured into further re­form before he can be freed from nearly three decades in prison, his wife said Sunday. 
The government, meanwhile, warned Mandela's newly legal­ized African National Congress that the world would turn against the group if it contin­ued to wage a guerrilla war. 
In Pretoria, assailants shot out windows at the British Embassy, a day after right­wing graffiti was spray-painted on the building. No one was in­jured and no one claimed re­sponsibility for the incidents, which may have been in retalia­tion for Britain's endorsement of reforms announced by President F.W. de Klerk. 
Mandela met with his wife. Winnie, on Sunday, two days after the government lifted nu­merous restrictions on the anti­apartheid movement. After the meeting, she appealed for re­newed pressure on the govern­ment to force the lifting of re­maining emergency restric­tions. 
"Unfortunately. the obstacles that were in the way, which prevented his release on Friday, still exist," Mrs. Mandela said after the four-hour visit at the Victor Verster prison farm. 
"It ... doesn't depend on him when he will be released." she said. But in answer to repeated questions about the obstacles, she said Mandela still demands the complete lifting of the 3.5­yfmr-old state of emergency. 
de Klerk partly lifted the emergency in a historic speech Friday in which he legalized the African National Congress, 

F.W. de Klerk 
placed a moratorium on execu­tions and lifted restrictions on hundreds of individuals and scores of anti-apartheid orga­nizations. 
de Klerk's actions met many, but not all, of the conditions the ANC and Mandela had set for the start of negotiations to end apartheid and give the voteless black majority a voice in the government. 
Under the emergency regula­tions that remain in effect, the government can detain anyone for up to six months without charge, police have wide powers to ban meetings or speeches and restrict television or photo coverage of their own actions in dealing with political unrest. 
de Klerk issued a statement through government-run radio Sunday night responding to comments from ANC officials that the guerrilla campaign would continue. If that hap­pened, de Klerk was quoted as saying, "The world would turn against them." 
He said that his speech Friday to Parliament "had re­moved these organizations' grounds for violence." He also promised that any changes in the constitution would be put to a vote, and said he understood "fears might arise as a result of his speech because renewal always brought uncertainty." 

Harry Gwala, an ANC col­league of Mandela's who was released from prison in 1988 for medical reasons, said Sunday that de Klerk's moves were dramatic for whites but appeared intended to bypass the black opposition's basic demands. 
"The context within which the unbanned organizations are meant to operate is still essen­tially unchanged," Gwala said. "An array of oppressing legis­lation like the Internal Security Act and the state of emergency are still in place. Detention without trial, irrespective of the length of time, remains a com­pletely unjustified attack on the force for democracy and peace." 
Mandela, 71, was jailed in 1962 and is serving a life sen­tence for helping to plan the start of the ANC's sabotage and bombing campaign against the government. 
de Klerk said the government will free Mandela as soon as possible. He mentioned safety and personal considerations as reasons for what he said would be a short delay. 
"The onus is on Mr. de Klerk," Mrs. Mandela told journalists. "We are back to where we have to put pressure on the government." 
She said Mandela was preparing a reaction to de Klerk's speech to Parliament, but she didn't know when it would be made public because "he remains a prisoner." 
Mrs. Mandela visited her hus­
::i?''"'.''"'"'"'"'..' 

With our new hourly service to and 
from O'Hare and Midway, we'll get 
you there sooner and won't keep you 
waiting to come home. 

United Limo has always·given you the lowest regular 
fare to and from O'Hare and Midway airports in Chicago. 
Now we also have the best connections. With service 
every hour of every day from 4 a.m. to 12 midnight.* No longer will you have to endure long waits in lonely and 
unfriendly airport terminals. With our new hourly service, you can make easy departure connections. And chances are there will always be a United Limo bus ready and waiting for you within minutes ofyour arrival. So make a resolution for yourself. Don't put up with that extra wait any longer. Travel in comfort and get where you want to go sooner. With United Limo. 
United Limo 
We'll get you there. 
674·7000 
CUnited Limo ·1990 

10844 McKinley Highway • P:O. Box 287 • Osceola, IN 46561 *Service is hourly all day except last two runs. Call United limo or your travel agent for schedule. 

Nelson Mandela 

band alone. When she emerged from the meeting, a few excited local black residents shouted, "Viva, Mandela," and danced with joy. A small squad of prison guards in brown fa­tigues with automatic rifles stood guard at the gate. 
"Suffice to say, I am, of course, extremely disappointed I am not bringing him along with me to go home to his fam­ily," she said before leaving for Johannesburg. 
On her return to Johannesburg, Mrs. Mandel~ said the document being pre­pared by her husband on de Klerk's speech would indicate the circumstances under which he would be released. "In that statemeQt, he will also indicate when his release is to be ex­pected," she said. 
Sunday newspapers reported that sources close to the African National Congress are saying the guerrilla organiza­tion is discussing a prisoner swap with the government. 
de Klerk said people impris­oned only for membership in outlawed organizations or non­violent support of such groups, would be freed. 
Those convicted of violent crimes, including participation in the.ANC's bombing campaign that killed 40 people and in­jured 680 over the past three years, would not be freed, ac­cording to de Klerk's plan. 
Jackson calls for ishment of apartheid 
de Klerk announced Friday 
that black leader Nelson Mandela will be freed from prison soon. He also legal­ized Mandela's African National Congress guerrilla movement and eased emer­
regulations. 
· preaching at St. 
a fashionable 

,.,"""""'if a center for left~,,,, 
Jackson ad~' 

sse·d· Al> che~~•t.ill.~J! rally .o{ 
people :'in· L()nd•:m's rundown·· Hackney 


NASCCU 
continued from page 1 
not full-fledged universities." Catholic universities, Heft ar­gued, are "truly inclusive of all forms of knowledge." 
NASCCU's proposed docu­ment on academic freedom states: "If the Church has con­fidence in its Dogma and Doctrine, it should not be afraid to allow challenges and opposing viewpoints to be pre­sented alougside its teachings. The rational mind will then have the freedom to search oul and discover the truth from un­biased opinion." 
A Catholic university does not 
necessarily profess a singular 
idea, but rather a "broader 
range of reality," Heft ex­
plained. Catholicity is 
"legitimate and centrally im­
portant", but students have an 
obligation to explore other 
ideas. "fWeJ must allow reli­
gion and honesty [in other dis­
ciplines] to coexist." 
"There will be serious diffi­
culties unless the American 
concept of academic freedom is 
modified by Catholic universi­
ties," Heft warned the group, 
comprised of student represen­
tatives from almost 30 Catholic 
universities around the 
country. 
"You are in the process of creating history," Heft said to NASCCU's members, referring to how they could change the concept of academic freedom at their respective Catholic u n i v e r;i ties. "Never underestimate the impact you [as students] can have." 
Catholics represent the largest religious group in uni­versities and colleges, Heft noted, adding that Catholics are also the most affiuent of all religious groups. "There a:r.e obligations which flow from your privileges." 

Faculty course evaluations 

end of each semester. Those L-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 
Breslin asks students to complete FCEs 
By MONICA YANT  These evaluations are differ­ 
News Writer  ent  from  the  teacher  course  
evaluations completed  at  the  

Buy Observer Classifieds 

---~~---­
The Observer Monday, February 5, 1990 
If you have a car and want to
The 
make money, call Regis Coccia Observer at 239-5313 about becoming part of the team that brings
wants 
the news to Notre Dame and you! Saint Mary's. 
PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 
Parsons In Parts June 30-August 13 Paint on the Left Bank, explore prehistoric caves in the Dordogne, visit the masterpieces of renaissance art in Tuscany. Courses include painting, drawing, art history and the liberal arts. Students may choose to spend the last two weeks of the program in the Dordogne or Cortona, Italy. 
Photography In Paris June 31hluly 30 Study both the aesthetics and the craft of photography in the city that has in· spired great photographers for 150 years. Guest lecturers and visits to Parisian galleries supplement the curriculum. 
Fashion In Paris June 31hluly 30 Study the history and contemporary trends of French fashion design through visits to Parisian museums and costume collections. Guest lecturers and visits to design studios and retail outlets are part of the program, as are daily classes in fashion illustration. 
History of Architecture and Decorative Arts in Paris June 31hluly 30 Offered in collaboration with the renowned Musee des Arts Decoratifs, this pro· gram focuses on the history of French architecture and European decorative arts. Excursions to points outside of Paris are included; last summer, students visited Versailles, Vaux le Vicomte and Fontainebleau. 
Modern Paris June 30.July 30 Combining architectural history with drawing, this program focuses on the development of Paris in the modern period (1830 to the present). 
Paleolithic Art and Archaeology of the Dordogne July 29-August 13 Daily class sessions near the town of Les Eyzies de Tayac, in southwestern France, are devoted to lectures and guided visits to the area's famous and less well-known prehistoric caves, living sites and archaeological excavations. 
History of Architecture in Italy July 13-August 11 The architectural heritage of Italy is studied in Rome, Florence and Ven1ce, where on-site presentations are made by Parsons faculty. 
History of Architecture and Decorative Arts In Great Britain July 10-August 10 This four-week curriculum, covering the years 1600·1900, is offered 1n London, with several excursions to nearby towns and country houses. 
Graphic Design In Japan July 16-August 14 Design students and professionals will discover the excitement of Japanese advertising and graphic design through workshops, seminars and presenta· tions by internationally known designers. Studio, museum and gallery visits supplement the curriculum, which emphasizes the sources, in the traditional arts, of much contemporary Japanese design. 
Parsons In Israel July 23-August 19 Offered in collaboration with Jerusalem's Bezalel Academy of Arts and Des1gn, the program provides an in-depth introduction to major sites of historical impor· lance, to the rudiments of archaeological practice and to techniques of artistic representation. 
Parsons in West Africa July 2-August 1 and August 4-August 25 Workshops in ceramics and fibers will introduce students to artists and artisans in several Ivory Coast villages, where these crafts can be studied in their original context. A photography curriculum examines techniques of documen· tation and reportage in regions of great natural beauty and cultural diversity. The history of African art and architecture also is offered. Additional study in Mali may be taken as a separate option, or as a continuation of the Ivory Coast program. 
All programs include round trip airfare, accommodations and land transfers. Academic credit is available to qualified students. For more information, please return the coupon or call: 
(212) 741-8975 
Parsons School of Design Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue, N.Y., N.Y. 10011 
Please send information about: 0 Paleolithic Art 0 Parsons in Paris 0 Architecture in Italy0 Photography in Paris 0 Architecture in Great Britain 0 Fashion in Paris 0 Graphic Design in Japan 0 Architecture & Decorative 0 Parsons in IsraelArts in Paris 0 Parsons in West Africa 0 Modern Paris 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _________________ 
City State Zip 
CP34 

will allow students to voice their opinions about how classes are conducted, and pos­sibly give professors incentive to change their teaching style, said Student Body President Matt Brnslin. 
The evaluations are due to­morrow and should be placed in the receptacles in dorm lob­bies. 
The results of the evaluations will be published in a booklet to help students choose their classes. Hemarks reflecting the general opinion of a professor will be included. Quotes indicat­ing specific problems or com­pliments may also be published. 
If opinions are divided about a particular instructor, both sides will be presented, Breslin said. 
comments are used for tenure 
purposes, whereas the faculty 
course evaluations will be tabu­
lated for students' benefit. 
The idea behind the evalua­tions is that professors will be motivated to correct any nega­tive image that may appear in the written booklet. "If no one signs up for a professor's class, maybe he will get the hint," Breslin said. 
The evaluations were resur­rected this year after attempts last year failed due to lack of student response. The concept could be dropped all together if unsuccessful again this year, he said. 
The evaluations are a project of Student Government's Intellectual Life and Academic Concerns departments. 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
search two individual topics in 
such short time, said Thiel. 
Thiel added. "We will have two judges this year during the first three rounds consisting of a pool of faculty and graduate students from Notre Dame." Every dorm will be guaranteed to debate three times before the finals. 
The quarter-tina! will be Feb. 
21. the semi-final is on Feb. 27, and the final championship round will be on March 7 be­fore Spring Break competing for $500 and $250 for the first runner-up. 
"These debates are important not only because of their cam­pus-wide competitive nature, but also because they are an open forum for important is­sues of social justice." said Thiel. 


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPONSAVINGS------...,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
l---~~~----~~~-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
Reg.$8 ~~:

1t-------------------1 
1 s50FF ANY PERM : 
: ~~I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircuttas 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·3770 


----------~-~-------~------.---~-------, 
page 7 

Liberal Yugoslavians reject Communists 
LJUBLJANA, Yugoslavia (AP) confederation that restricts 
Slovenia's liberal central authority. 
Communists on Sunday broke "This is the end of the League 
away from the national of Communists of Yugoslavia, 
Communist Party and declared in which Slovenian Communists 
that they no longer recognize had the status of an unequal
the institution that has ruled minority," said Ribicic, using
Yugoslavia since World War II. the formal name of the national 
The move followed disputes party. over the pace of democratic re­The national party "doesn't form and a virtual trade war exist any more for us," said between the relatively affluent Petar Bekes, another Slovenian republic of Slovenia and archri­party leader. val Serbia, the largest and most populous of Yugoslavia's six Slovenian Communists have 
republics. moved quickly in the past three 
The break from the national years to create a pluralistic po­party by the Slovenian party litical system in the republic. was the first formal party Their reforms have been criti­schism since the Communists cized harshly in Serbia, where took power in 1945. the ruling Communist hard-lin­
In Sunday's emergency meet­ers demand continued national 
ing, the Slovenian party also Communist Party dominance. changed its name and called for Slovenian Communists the release of all political pris­stormed out of a national party oners, an end to all political congress last month after 
trials and immediate talks be­Serbian-led hard-liners rejected tween Yugoslav Communists reforms. and leaders of newly formed opposition parties. Slovenian Communists have 
Slovenia's Communist Party expressed increasing frustra­president, Ciril Ribicic, said the tion at resistan<;e to reform by new party was not seeking se­the national party as Slovenia cession from Yugoslavia but prepares for multiparty elec­
the establishment of a Yugoslav tions in April. 
Happy 21st BirthdayBrian 
Love Mom, Dad, Judy,Amanda, Michael, & Elaine 

LAST CHANCE TO ORDER YOUR 
1990 ORANGE BOWL PROGRAMS 
COLLECTOR'S EDITION 
Send $7 .00, check or money order, to: 
Touchdown Publications College Bowl Official Programs PO. Box 89 Trenton, NJ 08651 
Prices include shipping and handling. Quantities are limited. 



IMPRESSIONISM TO SURRFALISM AND EVERYTHING BETWEEN' 
Notre Dame Room (2'At floor), LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

CMI Campus Marketing, Inc. 
presents 
Jeff Burglechtels 2nd Annual Beach Party 
at 
DAYTONA BEACH 
$239 complete 
CMI TOUR INCLUDES:  $154.00  
eRound trip transportation on beautiful,  No Transportation  
modern highway coaches  
eEight Florida days/seven endless nights  
at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels,  
located right on the Daytona Beach strip.  
Your hotel has a beautiful pool, sun  
deck, air conditioned rooms, color TV  
and a nice long stretch of beach.  
eA full schedule of FREE pool deck  
parties every day.  
eA lull list of pre-arranged discounts to  
save you money in Daytona B~ach.  

eOptional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, party cruises. etc. 
Last year over 160 ND/SMC students went With us. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP 
LAST CHflttCE 
8pm Wed. Feb. 7 LaFortune Montgomery Theater OR call Jennifer 284-4407 
The Observer Monday, February 5, 1990 eage 8 
Rushdie regrets tensions, but will not retract 'Verses' 
LONDON  (APJ  - In  a  rare  Heaching out  to  "the great  
public comment from his  en­ mass of ordinary, decent, fair­ 
forced  seclusion,:.  author  minded Moslems," Rushdie said  
Salman  Hushdie  appealed  to  he  recognized  that  many  of  
Moslems  on  Sunday to  recon­ them were shocked and pained  
sider their opposition to "The  by his book, just as he was hurt  
Satanic Verses," saying he feels  by their rejection of it.  
their pain but cannot retract his book.  He asked them "to renounce blood; not to let Moslem leaders  
In a 7,000-word essay, which  make  Moslems  seem  less  
he said was the hardest piece of writing he had ever done,  tolerant than they are." "Perhaps a way forward  
Hushdie said he never intended  might  be  found  through  the  
to blaspheme Islam and regrets  mutual recognition of that mu­ 
the  racial  tensions  that  fol­ tual pain," he suggested.  
lowed the novel's publication. But Rushdie also wrote in The  His olive branch was rejected by Liaqat Hussain, general sec­ 
Independent on Sunday that Moslems who burned his books  retary of the Council of Mosques in Bradford, northern  
and staged violent demonstra­ England,  which  has  led  the  
tions  were  partly responsible.  campaign to ban "The Satanic  
Hushdie criticized  the  British  Verses."  
government for not prosecuting  
a  Moslem leader who report­ "Mr. Rushdie has suffered no  
edly advocated his death.  pain. It is Moslems who have  
Hushdie, a naturalized Briton  lost their lives and suffen~d in­ 
who  was  born into  a  Moslem  juries," Hussain said. Six peo­ 
family in India. has been in hid­ ple  were  killed  in  India and  
ing under British police guard  Pakistan  during  demonstra­ 
since Feb. 14. 1989, when Iranian Ayatollah Huhollah  tions against the book. "I would not go into hiding  Presidential Address  AP Photo  
Khomeini called for Hushdie's death.  for my beliefs ... he should be brave enough to face the world  Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani addresses a huge crowd and foreign guests at the Imam Khomeni's Shrine in Tehran's Behashte Zahra Cemetery Thursday to mark the first day of ten-day dawn  
The  decree  was  not  lifted  for  his  principles,"  Hussain  celebration of the 11th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution.  
when Khomeini died in June.  added.  

rv--··-smtfiiSTYWAYS--~
S. Africa 

continued from page 1 
placed all of its ehips on the hope that the continued with­
I TO IMPROVEA 
drawal of foreign investment 1 will so weaken the eeonomy that the South African white leadership will see the wisdom 

~COLLEGE EDUCATION.-~

of negotiating a nnw constitu­tion for a multiracial society." Williams wrote in a report. 
"No one has ever argued that divestment is the whole an­swer," said Walshe, adding that 
Mon. Thurs. 
the massive, non-violent protest of the blacks in South Africa is 
a major factor. r···········-------···-, r·····················-,
BEAT THE CLOCK THICK THURSDAY
I

"It is important to ke1~p up 
Present this coupon and receive
pressurn with further sanctions 
Order 1 large original pizza with 1 medium pizza smothered In cheese
until negotiations are com­1 toppin!l between 4 and 7 PM and pepperoni. 
I 

It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Everyand the ume on the clock Is the 
pleted," Walshe said. day this week, you can get a special offer
price that you pay. PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00 
Williams maintained that "th1~ from Domino's Pizza~ Whether it's free extra departure of Anwrican business Offer valid Monday's onlyl crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's Offer valid Thursday's onlyl from South Africa because of 
more reasons to make this the week lor a
I Ill. II.
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90

prnssurn exerted in the U.S. has 
\oWodllpatiOC:>pllllllg-lonlyNotwalkl...U.any(llhWott.fPriC:Mffta)'~ VWidlllpWt~e~p~&~.wr..Dnly MGI....W..,.ar.,Oihef~ ~tna)'IIIWJ' eu.o.-P¥ ...tao' '""'*'-~ICablto 0.Uwfy IIW&Iimtted jg ___.. uot. not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, CuMom. pap ..... a..-""-~ Oehe"J-.....II)~ ...
usually resulted in new nnn­
~ CA..,_.. uny ._. lhan $2000 Out dll...,. --penallzad b ._ tltlvlngOu!df..,urryle•U..IaO.OO.OuiOI'._...,.nc~~b'­
~-Cllltil Ootnlno'a PIU.I. Inc 1/sblan you'll see why this is the week you've been ~... OINI Oomlno'1 Pilu. Inc 1/sb/csn
U.S. owners who are much less 
waiting for.

interested in solving soeial 
·----------------------· ·----------------------· 
problems." 
Williams cited both personal CALL US! interviews with apartheid op­ponents in South Africa and a 
I Tues. Fri. 
report compiled by Arthur D. 
271-0300 
Little, Inc. that indicated 60 
1835 South Bend Ave.
U.S. companies remaining in 
r·····················-, r·····················-,
TRIPLE TUESDAY 1 DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 

South Africa, provided more 
I

than 40 million dollars this 
I 

Present this coupon and receive 2-12'Present this coupon and receive 1
past year to programs designed 
3 small original chMae plzzu 1 original ~with 2 toppings and 
2 COKES for $11.49.
for $8.11. Adcllllonll toppings avallllbll 1 "deKlerk is a politician," 
to eliminate apartheid. 
Olrw valid Friday'l onlylWalshe said. "He is not com­mitted to individual rights," but 
:=-=~~' • i ••DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/31J/OO ••
OFFER EXPIRES: 6130/90 • ~ 

to group rights, which is an­
._..,......_..,,._.....,_....._..,_, I PIZZA 
.............-........ 1111111111 ....,_... ,....,...
other name for apartheid, he 
~
............................,_..............
=-cu-:=-_::-.:===..-:.=:,: II DB.IVIIRS. ..... o.. ............_.••
CM' ......,......... 
......._._~...... ,~~~:~r~cn 

.......-a...n.......... 1"*""­
said. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••• FRD.
"deKierk had no alternative 
other than chaos," said Walshe. 
·----------------------· 
Williams said, "my own belief is that [deKlerkl is serious about moving ahead and dis­mantling apartheid." 
Weds. 
Sat. 
"If [deKlerkJ is just jockeying for time, he is creating a very 
r·····················-, r·····················-, r·····················-,
1 WILD WI!DNESDAY I 1 DOUBLE FEATURE PARTY SPECIAL I
dangerous situation by 
unleashing the ANC," Williams 
I Pr-.1'!...,~~,...,. I I ...._...~-,_.. 
I 
said. He also added that 
i lor~~=.e=. I I Lam:~glftalot-.piDM
deKlerk said in his speech that 
ll1t1edllb'lldwga. I I he was in favor of working toward universal franchise, 
Ollrwld w.Niday"• onttt • I i Ollr wid~· onttt • which is one vote per person. "deKierk may just be able to 
()!=fa. EXPIIES: lf.!JJ/90 • ,~ II ~.:!:~=-----. --................................,_______ 
I ...........-..."-..,..,
pull off some type of multi-ra­
:.:........:--====:..":-..::: o.-.......................,_....._ ....J ..............._GIIr____,......... cial constitution," Williams 
=-=-=--==-.............. =-=.::-.::-..---.,.-.~ ••
Oor _______,_
..................... ...................... .......................
~

said, adding "I think he's got the majority of whites behind 
\

----Ina.
him." 
------------·----------­
--._...._..___.. 


--·------------~---------~--~-~-­
Monday, February 5, 1990 
ND Graduate School announces fellowships 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
In a strategy to increase its competitiveness with the na­tion's elite, the Notre Dame Graduate School has estab­lished two new fellowship pro­grams beginning next year. 
According to Nathan Hatch, vice president of advanced studies, the University Presidential Fellowships and the Arthur J. Schmitt Presidential Fellowships will at­tract "students of superb qual­ity," who will "enrich the grad­uate school." 
The University Presidential Fellowships will be awarded annually to three first-year doctoral students in the hu­manities and social sciences. The Schmitt Presidential Fellowships will be awarded annually to five first-year doc­toral students in the sciences and engineering. 
Both fellowships will provide full tuition and a $12,000 stipend for all four years. 
Hatch said that the overall strategy of establishing the fel­lowships was to upgrade the graduate school to the level of competitive graduate schools, such as Duke or Brown. 
He noted that improving the graduate school is "critical at this time" because of the 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL­
',/.'.1\BSITY OF \:OTRI: l\·\.\11: 
PEACE STUDIES 
FEBRUARY 1990 EVENTS SCHEDULE 
Monday February 5 
4:00p.m. 
Tuesday February 6 
12:00 noon 
Thursday February 15 
4:00p.m. 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
Lecture: JIM AND KATHY MCGINNIS, 
Institute ot Peace & Justice, St. Louis. Co-sponsored with the Center for Social 
Concerns as part of the Year of the Fam· lly, "Solidarity with the Poor: Family Perspectives In the New Era of Peace­
making," Room 105, Law School. 
Brown Bag: DR. BURKHARD LUBER, 
Director, Threshol~ Foundation, West Germany. ·u.s. Military Deployment Issues in Europe,· Room 101, Law School. 
Lecture: ALEXANDER WILDE, 
Director, WOLA, Washington, D.C., "The Bush Administration and Central America: eeyond the Reagan Era?", Center for Social Concerns Multlpurpo•e Room. Co-sponsored with the 
Kellogg Institute. 
"shortage of faculty in these fields." 
The recipients of the fellow­ships will be required to pro­vide service during the second and third years of their gradu­ate study. Hatch said the ser­vice will probably be as an as­sistant in teaching or research. He said that this was necessary to "acclimate them to· teach­ing." 
The first and fourth years will be free from service. The students will be expected to fo­cus on studying their first year and will be concentrating on their dissertation in their fourth year. 
The University Presidential Fellowship is sponsored by Notre Dame. Hatch noted that the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation has been providing fellowships to the graduate school for years, and "welcomed being part of the new program." 
Hatch said that the graduate school is trying to find donors for fellowships and hopes the two new ones will "act as a flag to attract" contributors. 
The criteria for winning a scholarship will be "very com­petitive", said Hatch, and will depend on the quality of the student's performance, recom­mendations, and scores on standardized tests. 

The Observer page 9 
AP Photo
Sleeping in boxes 

Leach Wilson and Alan Harrington shelter themselves in one of the new sleeping boxes being tested in Phoenix. The "Porta-Sleeper" is designed to provide some shelter for the thousands of homeless who live on the streets. 
Hundreds of thousands protest in Moscow 
MOSCOW (AP)-Hundreds of thousands of cheering protesters filled the broad streets of the capital Sunday to demand that the Communists surrender their stranglehold on power, perhaps the biggest protest in Moscow since the Bolshevik Revolution. 
The huge gathering came on the eve of a party Central Committee meeting during which President Mikhail Gorbachev is expected to pro­pose that other parties be al­lowed to compete for power, a move likely to spur an intense struggle between hard-liners and reformers. 
The crowd waved huge white­red-and-blue flags of pre-revo­lutionary Russia and held signs warning party officials to "Remember Romania," where a bloody revolt last year toppled the Stalinist regime of Nicolae Ceausescu. 
The masses stopped next to Red Square for a gigantic rally that was meant to influence the pivotal Communist Party ple­nary meeting that opens Monday. 
"This plenum is the party's last chance," declared Boris N. Yeltsin, a populist Communist leader who promised to place the crowd's demands before the 251-member Central Committee. 
Others, harkening to the revolution that overthrew the czar in February 1917 before being swept away by Lenin eight months later, said a new revolution was under way. 
"Long live the beginning of the peaceful, non-violent revo­lution of February 1990!" his­torian Yuri Afanasiev told the cheering crowd. 
Some demonstrators at the head of the rally chanted "Politburo resign!" Others whistled in derision when they passed the Moscow city council headquarters on Gorky Street. 
Trucks blocked Moscow's Garden Ring Road for the marchers who linked arms next to Gorky Park and completely filled eight lanes of traffic, stretching back more than half a mile. Cordons of uniformed police blocked cars elsewhere, turning the center of Moscow into a virtual pedestrian mall. 
In all, the march and rally lasted for about five hours be­fore participants began to dis­perse. Police observed the peaceful proceedings in the historic heart of the capital, but there were no reports of any disturbances. 
According to published re­ports, party leader Gorbachev will propose to the Central Committee that the party give up the guarantee of power that was written into the Soviet Constitution in 1977. 
The Radio Moscow news ser­vice Interfax also said Gorbachev was planning struc­tural reforms that would re­duce the size of the Central Committee and possibly elimi­nate the ruling Politburo. He also was expected to give tacit approval to the concept of pri­vate property. 
The proposals are in the form of a draft platform to be placed before a congress, theoretically the Communist Party's highest body, that now is scheduled for this fall. 
Many Moscow observers ex­pected a concentrated effort from conservatives in the Central Committee to stop the reforms they believe have brought the Soviet Union to economic ruin and ethnic strife. 
At least some in the crowd had doubts whether Gorbachev is committed to radical re­forms. "Mikhail Sergeyevich, whom are you with?" one sign asked. 
Yeltsin and other reformers, speaking to the crowd gathered in front of the Moscow Hotel from the back of a blue flat-bed truck, demanded that the party and government talk with them about the Soviet Union's future, as Communist leaders have been forced to do as changes have swept the former Soviet satellites of Eastern Europe. 
They also urged a day of similar rallies throughout the country on Feb. 25. Yeltsin de­manded that the party congress be held earlier, in May or June. 
The rally united reformers from the People's Front orga­nizations of Moscow and Russia, the Association of Moscow Voters, the Memorial group dedicated to remember­ing the victims of Stalin. 
Let the Fun & Games Sweep You Away! 
Fridlly, Feb111111'Y 91Jt the JACC Sponsored by NVA Proceeds to Benefit the St. Joseph Coullly Specilll Olympics 

QUESTIONS ABOUT JPW? 
Drop by the new JPW olfice located across from the Observer on the 3rd Door LaFortune from 7-9 pm Mon. · Thurs. or call 
239.6088 
Monday, February 5, 1990

page 10 The Observer 
Calif. rep. launches anti-Kovic campaign 
SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP) ­Hep. Hobert Dornan has launched a pre-emptive strike against a potential rival, anti­war activist Hon Kovic, with mailers depicting the disabled veteran as a draft card-burning ultraliberal. 
The Hepublican congressman sent out 20,000 fund-raising letters that reproduce an old newspaper photograph pur­portedly showing Kovic burning a draft card. The letters, re­ceived Saturday by contribu­tors, call Kovic the favorite of the "Hollywood left." 
The conversion of Kovic from patriotic Marine to Vietnam War opponent is recounted in the hit film "Born on the Fourth of July." 
Kovie, 43, told The Associated Press Sunday he would announce later this month whether he will run as a Democrat in the 38th Congressional District. 
lie called Dornan's letter a "hatred campaign" and a des­peration move that will back­lire. 
"Id like to extend my sincere thanks to the congressman for helping to promote my movie throughout the district," he said. 
"He has always seemed will­ing to help me over the years, and this time I'm beginning to believe he may help me go all the way to Washington. 
"It's the false patriots who always attack the real heroes," said Kovic who received the Purple Heart and is paralyzed from a combat wound. 
Though avoiding a specific statement that he would run against Dornan, Kovic said his "time of dedicated service to my country has come again," that he has received strong support, and was confident of victory if he does run.• 
The conservative Dornan's letter asks for immediate cam­paign contributions of $100 or $150 and mentions the less sa­vory aspects of Kovic's life, as recounted in the motion picture. 


AP Photo

Ready for combat 
A U.S. soldier puts camouflage paint on a young Panamanian boy while his friend adjusts his colors Thursday in Yauiza, Panama. American troops are engaged in a new operation called Promote Liberty and are sweeping the jungles of South Panama. 
Calderon aiming for victory in Costa Rica 
SAN JOSE, Costa Hica (AP) -
Hafael Angel Calderon, son of 
an exiled president, was headed 
toward victory over the govern· 
ing party's candidate in 
Sunday's election to succeed 
President Oscar Arias, architect 
of Central America's peaee pro­
cess. 
"I feel very proud of my 
eountry tonight. This is a vic­
tory for all of you, the people of 
Costa Hica," Calderon, a strong 
supporter of U.S. policy in the 
region, said in a statement at 
his Social Christian party head­
quarters. 
lie was leading Carlos Manuel 
Castillo, of Arias' National 
Liberation party. by 93,773 
votes to 85,873, according to 
unol'licial returns from 12 per­
cent of precincts. 
The headquarters of the 
National Liberation party was 
virtually empty and Castillo 
made no immediate statement. 
The winner takes office May 8 
for a four-year term. 
It was the 1Oth straight peaceful election in Costa Hica since 1948, when Calderon's fa­ther, Hafael Angel Calderon Guardia, was president and tried to nullify the result when he lost. 
More than 80 percent of the nation's 1.7 million registered voters were expected to turn out Sunday. 
"My sympathy goes out to my opponent, Castillo, and his fol­lowers. I know what they are going through. I went through it four years ago," said Calderon, 41, who made losing presidential bids in 1982 and 1986. 
lie asked his followers to cel­ebrate without gloating or ran­cor and called on "those who did not vote for me to join us and light for a better future for Costa Hica." 
Party faithful were out in force, waving flags and honking horns in rhythm. Buses took thousands to the polls, where crowds of te, -.,gers decked out in colorful T-shirts guided vot­ers to their precincts. 5 a.m. when the polls opened. Police blocked streets near hospitals to hold down the sound of a festival that jammed streets of the capital through­out the day and continued after the polls closed. 
The fiesta continued into the night for Calderon's support­ers. 
Both major candidates ran populist campaigns aimed at the poor in this country of 2.9 million. The campaign was de­void of specifics, however. 
Castillo was hurt by revela­tions about drug trafficking and corruption, but in keeping with the tradition of Costa Hican politics, Calderon did not press those issues as hard as he might have. 
Calderon has said he supports Arias' peace efforts but won't try to imitate them, and will fo­cus on domestic issues and "improving social justice." 
Calderon has promised a new housing program for the poor while at the same time saying he would reduce the govern­ment's deficit spending. He also has proposed requiring large companies to establish profit­sharing plans, something that has made some businessmen nervous. 
Voters also elected 57 na­tional assembly delegates and filled 525 municipal posts. 

Prisoners, each escorted by a guard, were permitted to vote for the first time in Costa Hican history. 
"It's a step towards the per­fection of Costa Hican democ­racy," said human rights advo­cate Nancy Hernandez. 
In an exercise to reinforce the understanding of and commit­ment to democracy, more than 9,500 children under age 12 went to their own polling places in a mock election and Castillo won, taking 4,885 votes, or 
50.6 percent, to 4,693, or 48.6 percent, for Calderon. 
The voting took place only in San Jose, where the incumbent party is strong. 
Joao Baena Soares, secretary general of the Organization of American States, praised Costa Hica's democratic tradition but refused to compare it to Nicaragua, where a controver­sial campaign winds up on Feb. 25. 
He noted, however, that the OAS sent only four observers, including himself. 
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
• 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
•
• 

EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING •
• 

A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
• 

DEAN ANTHONY N. MICHEL AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF 
• 

THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
• • 

7:00 P.M.J TUESDAYJ FEBRUARY 6J 1990 
•

356 FITZPATRICK HALL OF ENGINEERING 
• 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
• 

Business
Monday, February 5, 1990 
Corporate funding increases, Job opportunities drop but private schools don't profit tor unskilled workers 
By CARLA PRANDO said, "The. trend in corporate municate effectively and pro­WASHINGTON {AP) De Vita and William P. Business Writer and foundation funding in vide leadership, Drury said. Jobs for the unskilled and O'Hare, conclude. recent years has shifted toward "Saint Mary's has had to place poorly educated are disap­The nation is in transition 
The results of a recent poll of those colleges and universities more focus on isolating those pearing, and future employ­from an industrial to a ser­Midwest chief executives indi­having graduate research specific corporations and foun­ment will require, if not vice economy, which means cated graduates of independent programs. The fact that Saint dations who have an interest in higher education, at least most new jobs will require colleges are better prepared to Mary's does not have a the College's designated funding good communications skills education and skills, the succeed in the workplace. Un­graduate program and is a priorities. Saint Mary's con­and basic ability in math and authors say. fortunately, this same poll women's Catholic college limits tinues to receive funding from reading, a new study says. shows that corporate support our pool of potential funding those corporations and founda­Even as U.S. businesses Managerial, professional has shifted from private col­sources." tions who know and support confront the challenge of and technical jobs will have leges to larger public institu­According to Claude Renshaw our commitment to excellence," foreign competition and new the highest rates of growth tions. of the Saint Mary's business she said. technology, radical changes in the years ahead, while the 
Ameritlich Foundations department, this problem stems are occurring in the size and greatest number of new jobs funded the poll which was re­from the size of the College, The research done also pro­composition of the work are expected to be in retail rPntly discussed in Chicago at a "Most corporations and large filed graduates of independent force that will affect the na­sales, office workers, clean­n~gional forum called "Minds groups will support colleges colleges and found that tion for decades to come, re­ers and waiters and wait­that Matt!~r." The forum was which their employees attended although Midwest private col­ports the private Population resses. attPnded by morn than 500 and that is why large schools leges enroll only 25 percent of Reference Bureau. busirwss opinion leaders, in­recPive more money." students, they produce 33 per­The study, "America in the "At a minimum, most jobs rluding trustees of private col­Henshaw also cites matching cent of all graduates. Also, it 21st Century: Human Re­of the future will require IPgt's. and educators. This fo­programs as a reason for the indicated that private colleges source Development," says good communications skills, rum hopPd to lwlp redistribute shift in corporate funding. lie have a larger enrollment of mi­the 1990s provide a window basic competency in math philanthropic support that has said. "If an employee nority students who graduate of opportunity for facing the and reading, the ability to hinderr>d private higher educa­contributes money to the and go on to work in their ap­nation's human and work­give and receive directions tion in tlw last dncade. college of her choice, most plied fields. Drury attributes place problems -problems and an aptitude for solving 
.-\rrording to sources from large firms will match the con­the success of Saint Mary's in which, if ignored, could lead problems," they report. llw forum. total rorporatn sup­tribution which a grant of the securing funding to the help of to dire consequences. "There will be few jobs for port for public institutions in same amount." From the Col­parents and alumnae, "Our the unskilled or poorly edu­tlw MidwPst has increased by lege's persp11ctive this is unfor­parents and alumnae have been "The 1990s provides a cated worker." (,I pPrrnnt owr the past five tunate because graduates of very helpful as contact persons unique opportunity for ad­yPars. while private colleges other schools outnumber Saint within many major corpora­dressing human resource Fewer young people will havP PXpPriPnrPd only a 23 pPr­Mary's alumnae, Henshaw said. tions. This type'of volunteer needs. If we postpone the enter the work force, which rPnt inrrease. ronf!~rence re­ThP funding which Saint networking within the Saint choice at hand, demographic increasingly will depend on sults show. Mary's receives comes from thn Mary's community has allowed factors in the years ahead immigrants and minorities, 
lkrkv Drurv. thP din~rtor of College's reputation for pro­us to secure funding that might could push us to the edge of many of whom have limited dPvPiopnwnt ·at ~aint Mary's, ducing businesswomen with the not otherwise have been possi­a formidable crisis," the au­educations, De Vita and affirms thPsP statistics. Slw ability to think critically. com-ble." thors of the study, Carol J. O'Hare say. 
Lenders chase delinquent student loan borrowers 
WASIIINGTON (i\Pl -Using $400 million in fiscal year cause of spiralling huge default that were made to borrowers used outside collection agencies aggressive tartirs that inrludnd 1989. rates, mainly among trade and who have never made a pay-to supplement their own garnishing low~ry winnings and "Tiw very magnitude of this vocational schools. ment on their student loans and resources. putting liens on real nstatP, program ... has created an ur­The GSL program, which is also loans to students who have Colorado garnished wages. banks and otlwr lenders in gent concern to prevent de­administered by 56 guarantee not made a payment in the five Utah put liens on real estate. thrPc yPars doubiPd tlw money faults and increase collections agencies that protect private years following their loan de­Texas and Illinois did not re­n~roverPd from dPiinqwmt stu­from borrowers who have run lenders against losses from fault. new professional licenses for dPnt loan borrowPrs. a study into trou bin," said Pelavin As­loan defaults, had $51.6 billion According to the new studies, doctors, nurses. lawyers and showed Sunday. sociatPs, a Washington. D.C. in student loans entering re-eighteen guarantee· agencies beauticians until their debts 
Lenders in tlw Guarant!H~d research firm that conducted payment status in fiscal year improved their recovery rates were resolved. Student Loan Program, which three national studies on the 1988. by more than 10 percent and 22 has made higher education GSL program for a consortium The federal government is the agencies saw improvements California garnished lottery possible for more than 20 mil­of guarantee agencies in Col­ultimate guarantor of the between 5 percent and 10 per­winnings for a few defaulters lion i\mp,ricans since created by orado, Massachusetts, Ten­loans. Last year, the Education cent. lucky enough to win money. Congress in 1965. "introduced nessee, Texas and Washington Department announced it Half the agencies took prob­A study on loan default re­innovative procedures to fore­state. would try to collect more than lem borrowers to court, while ductions found that 48 out of stall default" and increase re­Government student loan 100,000 defaulted student 20 states got tough by with­56 guarantee agencies have re­coV!~ries from $200 million in programs have been harshly loans, worth more than $300 holding defaulters' state income duced the percentage of loans fiscal year 1986 to more than criticized in recent years be-million. These include loans tax refunds. Eighteen states in default since 1986. 
Sports, fashion, and food signal stock market success 
Throw away your newsletters and ignore all those lesser prophets, for here it is, folks. the one newspaper column each year that really tells you where the stock market is going. What's more. unlike the output of lesser predirtors, this one is absolutely free­and guaranteed to be worth  and their far-out indicators, and nobody was more sur­prised than its author when it kept on working. every single year. So, stick with us as we see whether 1990 will finally be the year when our ridiculous indicators join all the others. Meanwhile, all you need is three pages of your trusty  Louis Rukeyser Tribune Media Services tana has scored one for the bulls. The market is sup­posed to go down when a team from the old American  1960s) are supposed to sig­nal higher stock prices; lower skirts, lower prices. At first glance, which we are of course taking solely on your behalf, the news is mar­velous; virtually every major designer in Europe and New York has been showing ex­tremely short skirts for spring.The problem is that,  dar. {In 1981, for example, it warned us to stay in money-market funds-by announcing the Year of the Chicken.) This year, we find, is the Year of the Horse, and to be assured of finishing in the money, all we have to do is cut through the inscrutability and figure out what that means. The steed  
every penny. They laughed when we sat  daily newspaper. These pages, as veteran readers  Football League (like the Denver Broncos) wins, and  as you may have noticed, American women are not as  has clearly come out of the starting gate looking a bit  
down to play (truth to tell, we were snickering a bit  are aware, will not include the front {it carries political  to go up when any other team {like Montana's San  easily pushed around as they used to be, and there ap­ lame, and so far 1990 has been the year of the horse  
ourselves). but we stunned the crowd once again in 1989, for which we correctly foresaw that "against all the odds, the outlook is for a  hot air and similar sensa­tional irrelevancies) or the financial {which we normally revere but for this purpose is too concerned with facts,  Francisco 49ers) wins. The indicator has worked 21 years out of 23, for abso­lutely no logical reason. But, since even it isn't perfect,  pears to be considerable consumer resistance to dis­playing as much thigh as designers have ordained. If women hold out and refuse  bite-but there is a steeplechase still ahead. In summary, then, it's a year that pits jocks against the women and horses. Like  
record eighth straight up year for stocks." Clearly, we should be levy­ing a heavy fee for this fore­cast, but we refrain for two reasons: (1) we are incredi­ which we have found are as remote from market per­formance as Jupiter is from Johannesburg). We look, for this forecast, at three other pages: sports,  and since so many people have started following it, it's important for us authentic Nostradamuses to look fur­ther. With a true sense of schol­ to wear shorter skirts, the prospects could be grim-fi­nancially speaking, natu­rally. And, finally, the indicator that was invented right here,  the skirts, it should have striking ups and downs, but our conelusion is that the 1990 stock market should be marked, to the crowd's sur­prise, by an impressive drive  
ble philanthropists around here {we live to serve), and  fashion and sports page,  food. On the we check the  arly dedication, we move to the fashion page and stare  and has arguably been the best of the bunch, we check  in the homestretch. Other­wise, we'll have to conclude  
{2) I never believe the stuff  Super Bowl indicator, which  at women's legs. Sexism? Of  the food-page ads for Chi­ that we've just been horsing  
myself. This annual column  by now has become so widely  course  not.This is high fi­ nese  New Year dinners, to  around. Remember you read  
actually started as a parody  popularized that practically  nancial  science.  Shorter  see what year is coming up  it here first, and don't forget  
of all the high-priced gurus  everybody knows Joe Mon- skirts { as in the 1920s and  on the wise old Asian calen­ to renew your subscription.  


Viewpoint
page 12 Monday, February 5, 1990 

Ihe Obset:Ver~c-= 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch lannell• 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ....... John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor . Eric Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saini Mary's Editor Christine Gill Controller ...Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers1· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­Icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opimon of the maJonty of the follow1ng: Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Ed1tor, Photo Editor, Samt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentanes, letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of varymg op1nions on campus, through fetters. IS encouraged. 
Drug legalization debate has highs and lows 
By John Robinson 
As the lirst two rounds of the Iceberg Debates will focus on the legal status of drug use in Ameriean soci11ty. the Iceberg Debates Steering Committee has asked me to express my thoughts on the lngalization debatn. In what follows, I make no pf'f'ort to be neutral. nor would I want it inferred that my thinking on tlw question is immutabln. As the national de­bate progresses, I can imagine my position changing substan­tially one way or the othnr as the evidm1c1~ suggnsts it should. 
The first thing that must be said about thn curnmt war on drugs is that it exaets a terrible cost from us. I am not now re­ferring to the twenty billion dollars that governments now spend enforcing drug laws. I rnfnr instead to the erosion of bask constitutional liberties that aeeompanins this war. 
The fundamental idea animating the entire Constitution is that here dtizens are sov11reign and that, as a result. government must always be kept in "due submission" to the peopl11. One way in which the subordination of the governm11nt to the peoplr is realiznd in American life is through the Fourth Amendment's prohibition against unnmsonable searches and seizures. 
Fourth Amendment doctrine is liendishly complex. However, its bask prineiple is simple: the state must not pry into a citi­zen's life-must not search his person, pore over his papers, or ransack his dwelling-un­less something about his eon­duct warrants some incursion into his privacy; even then, the nxtnnt of the incursion is dosnly regulated by thn law. Basically. you and I have to en-
DOONESBURY 

gage in suspicious conduct bn­forn we can be forced to sun·,~r the indignity of a statP-spon­sorl'd search or seizurl'. 
Tlw war on drugs erodes this symbol of our sovereignty. In a host of different ways now, wholly innoct•nt citizens arn subject to the prying eye of the stahL Where once free men and women could keep the state at bay, now, like children, they are subjected to several diffnr­ent forms of state-sponsored snooping, even when they have dono nothing to trigger police suspieion. The rapid growth of urinalysis requirements is the best evidence of this inversion, but the urinalysis cases do not stand alone. 
The consensual nature of drug transactions and the mi­nuscule amounts involved in most of those transactions have made the whofpsale re­structuring of fourth amend­nwnt rights necessary to police success in the war on drugs. Similar things could be said about the erosion of sixth and eighth amendment rights in re­cent years. 
Another way in which the state is kept subordinate to the people is by the limitation of the power of the central gov­ernment. The war on drugs will. however, erode what re­mains of our federalism more insidiously than any other phe­nomenon in modern times. It will. furthermore, strengthen tlw central government's hand at just th1~ point when~ it i-; 
YOI.J 60!N6 5££MSLIKE RJGHTTO UH-HUH... YOU'RtTIRW 5/..&&PAGAIN? I'M &V8RY N/(jHT. T/R/31}. ..
I \ 

most to bP fean~d: in its police power. As the FBI and tlw Drug Enforcement Agency and a plethora of less well-known federal ageneies take over the pursuit of drug wholesalers, the rest of us are witnessing the emergenc<~ of a de facto national police force. This event, when combined with the diminution of our rights against police intrusion into our lives, should give us cause for concern. 
!\ third way in which the state is kept in its place is by the ex­clusion of the military from the ordinary affairs of government. 
ThP  war  on  drugs,  howPvPr,  
will  inevitably  bP  militariz1~d.  
and  whiiP  tlw  military  mi~ht  

PVPntually bet·omn adept at snaling bordnr an•as and intPr­dicting air and sna supply routes, it will nev11r acrommo­date itself to the principles of citizen sovereignty and maxi­mal liberty that are at thn !wart of our constitutional system. 
1\s baneful as the militariza­tion of the war on drugs will be on the domestic front, it will be even more costly in the interna­tional sphere. Sovereign states in Latin America may acquiesce in the presence of our soldiers on their soil as part of a sup­ply-control campaign, but it's hard to believe that that pres­ence will help to create a cli­mate where "the strong are just. the weak secure, and the peace preserved forever." 
There arn other costs ineident to the war on drugs-the over­crowding of prisons and tlw enormous "corrnrtions" budgPt that it produces, tlw ovnr­crowding of courts and tlw in­tolerable delays that it pro­duces, the 1~xacerbation of tlw already dreadful condition of our inner cities, the corruption of the police in drug-impacted jurisdictions. the heightnning of racial tension dun to the con­centration of the drug tradn in minority neighborhoods. the in­vitation to demagoguery im­plicit in campaigns of this sort-but there is one addi­tional cost that deserves special attention. Let me call it tlw normal pathology of the politi­cal process. 
The world is a dangerous place. We want to protnet thost• we love from harm. but potPn­tial harms arc infinite in kind and our protective resourrPs are frighteningly finite; so WP seleet out a few harms and make their minimization an ob­jective. So far, so good-but thnn the pathology kicks in. We focus on a single harm and art as if our loved ones would bn entirely safe if only that harm were eompiPlPiy n<'utralizPd. Wn did this with dnmon rum in thl' grip of tlw telllJ)('rant·p mOVI'JTII•nt, and With ('Oilllllll­nism during our two gn•at HPd 
scarPs. WP're doing it now with drugs. 
We need to recall that as harmful as drug addiction can be, cigarettes and akohol do a whole lot more harm right now than all of the illegal drugs do. and yet we do not target tlwm for wars of eradication. This is not an argument for legalizing cocaine or for criminalizing ci­garettes and alcohol. It is a reminder that even if we were to succeed in reducing to zero thl' supply of and demand for drugs, the world would still bP a tPrribly frightening plaee, and that thP root causes of human 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
misPry would still have to bP 
addrPSSPd. 
Is lngalization, then, tlw an­swer? I do not beli<wn so. I worry about what coeailw dot~s to the brain and about what a pharmarologirally-al tl' n~d brain does to the person. I worry about what widesprl'ad eoeainn usn would do to tlw nation's moral snnsn. I worry about what the n~j1~etion of co­caine by tlw dominant rultun~ and its acceptance by certain subcultures would do to tlw na­tion's snnsn of colwsivnness. I worry about how we could kel'p legalization from looking likP approbation and about what social approbation would do to IPvels of use. Let me try to cap­turn all of thi'SP worrit~s in a single. final thought. 
Tlw Constitution prnsupposPs tlw existencl' of persons of' a CPrtain sort as eitiztms. ThPsP JJI'rsons are no saints; they an· assumed to bn selfish, ambi­tious. short-sighted. parochial. ete. But they are, despitP all. political; that is, involvPd in tlw world outside of llwmselves, at­tempting to influtmee it, and eapable of being dnnply aiTnrtPd by it. Drug dependPncc discon­Jwcts us from the politil"al world, and sPnds us into a world of our own. 
Where we want maturation in the sense of progress from tlw micro-world of infancy to the gn~ater world of town and state and nation, drugs give us infancy all ovPr again. ThP frPPdom PnvisionPd by till' Constitution and tlw only fn•p­dom worth aspiring to is wholly at odds with the infantiiP, escapist pseudo-freedom that drugs have to offer. For this reason I resist legalization. 
John Robinson is /Jirector of the Thomas J. White Center on /,aw and Government at the Notre /Jame Law School. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MIK&,TH/5 5HE'5
ISN'T TH/3 
FOR.60TTE3N.

TIM&-OR 
'One of the secrets of life is that
I

PlAC&lD /J/9CU5S 
all that is really worth the doing is 
TH/5. 
what we do for others_' 
Lewis Carroll (1832-18984) 
Viewpoint

Monday, February 5, 1990 
page 13 

Academic vocation demands scrutiny of issues 
"Good Sirs, you are dents of one of this nation's so do we have a relationship way· helpful to anyone.
Athenians, citizens of the 
F. Mark Reuter finest acad!lmic institutions, we with religious matters that is Knowledge, judgement, and ac­greatest city with the greatest 
have informally but directly be­almost unavoidable. For the tion on such issues are reputation for both wisdom Ideas and Issues gun to respond to the vocation survival and integrity of our in­paramount to the survival ofand power; Are you not of intellectualism. Such a voca-stitution, we cannot ignore our sisters and brothers. 
ashamed of your eagerness to Catholics often fail to allow the tion demands that, in the words these controversial issues that For these reasons, we should possess as much wealth, repu­
teachings of our Church to of Father Michael Himes, "We directly affect the Catholic constantly examine Catholic so­tation, and honours as possible, question us on controversial do not need to ask every ques-community of Notre .Dame. cial issues. A special opportu­
while you do not care for not social issues. In the same man-tion, but the questions we do Constant struggle with such nity to do so occur~ in the give thought to wisdom or ner that Socrates promoted the ask, we do not have the right pertinent issues might also Student Union Board's Catholic truth. or the best possible state valuable quest for answers, so not to try to answer." As mem-strengthen our faith and souls Church Week during Feb. 5-8. 
of you soul?" (Apology, Plato) should the Church's teachings bers of this intellectual com-as well. Attending the week's lectures, instill an obligation to sagacity munity, we do not have the Finally, these issues affect debates, and presentations will 
Just as Socrates questioned in us. As students with immense right not to think about perva-not only the Church but also the encourage the kind of thought and criticized the ideals of the academic and economic re-sive Catholic social issues. world. We live in an interdepen­Socrates valued most. Athenian citizens, so too does sources, we have an obligation Thus. as members of a dent world; since our thoughts, F. Mark Reuter IV is a the Catholic Church constantly to discern such Catholic social Catholic intellectual institution, actions, and choices somehow sophomore government and try to question and criticize the issues for many reasons. we must scrutinize pervasive effect everyone, it is in the best theology major with a concen­beliefs of its members. Yet. To begin with, because we are Catholic social issues. To the interests of the human race tration in the Hesburghwhile the Athenians did attempt bound to intellectualism, dis-same degree that Notre Dame that we, influential individuals, Program in Public Serffice. The to intellectually attack cernment of such issues is has a distinct affiliation with care for each other. Ignorance Ideas and Issues column is Socrates. many of us as mandatory. Since we are stu-religion and religious concerns, of Catholic social issues is in no sponsored by SUB. 
'Magic epoch' spells unrest 
not a!Iownd to decide their own lingual groups have lived By S.P. Udayakumar cl10in~ of nationality. Many together for ages. 
peoples harbor historical rival­It is not only unwise but dis­The prcspnt epoch of swncp­ries and psychological hatred astrous to go on dividing our ing changes challenges many as the Serbs and Croatians in countries especially when the 
nstablishments. inducting most Yugoslavia, or the Catholics world has remarkably shrunk fundamental of all. the very and Protestants in the UK, or and peoples have taken seri­
dnfinition of state. Tlw craving the Hindus and Muslims in ously to the task of living in for sPif-dPtermination. identity India di>. peace with "the other." Sudden rlaim. and n~sistance to subju­The educational systPms in reorganization of thfl geopoliti­gation have always made dif­tlwse countries seem to have cal scene may also strike a dev­fPrPnt peoples around the callously ignored this factor in astating blow to the politicalworld rnbel against tlwir molding the young minds for a stability, economic achieve­Debates melt intellectual frigidity
stal!~s. But the current "magic broad-minded national ments, and the moral integrity all this a
life. Dear Editor: now is because newepoch" semns to pose a thn~at­Many of these governments of humankind. 
Notre Dame has its problems; project in its second year couldening challPnge to the cohesion unceasingly National integration, or being what
have worked for at least that's I hear. help solve some of these imper­
of federal states like the SoviPt "national uniformity" with ar­part of a larger whole, is good 
Students tell me the social life fections in the quality of lifeUnion. India. Yugoslavia. and rogant imposition of the in many ways but it should not is not so good. They say there's around here. It's the Iceberg
many otlwr smaller countries "official language" and the be on the "what-1-have-is-mine­not much to do. A lot of guys Debates. The idea is that if we
of multinational character. predominant religious belief on and-what-you-have-is-also­say that it's hard to meet can establish a debate seriesThe secessionist sentiment the minority people rather than mine" bas~. Federal govern­women; some of the women say that prompts students to dis­among almost all of the Soviet for "national unity" which gives ments must give more auton­it's hard to meet the right kind cuss some meaty subjects, we 
n~publics except Russia poses a everyone a say in the national omy to the states and must re­of guy. can enhance some understand­very severe challenge to the na­tain only defense, foreign af­
administration, due share in I hear about other problems. ing, spark some learning,tional integrity of thP Soviet the hard-won fruits, and fair fairs and key economic sectors Students tell me they wish fac­maybe challenge values, morals
Union and thP very ongoing po­deal in fostering the sub-cul­like currency with them and let ulty were more accessible. The and beliefs. The emphasis is onlitical rPforms in that country. 
tures. the states manage their own students would like to meet awareness here, not on debat­
South to tlw Soviet Union. tlw Hussification the affairs. with to
The in them informally talk ing style (leave that to the law
C1mtral Government of India is USSH, indirect imposition of Any attempt to forge a about things on their minds. students).
also preoccupiPd with the same Hindi among the non-Hindi forceful unity will only alienate But, they continue, the faculty The Iceberg Debates haveset of problems. When the Sikh speakers in India, forcing re­the local people. Neither 
are under so much pressure to other motives in mind. For ex­militants rlaim indPpendcnce Gorbachev's Baltic tour nor
pressive Islamic "shariat" on research, publish and act ample, the teams have been set
from tlw Indian Union, 
the Christian southflrners in V.P. Singh's prayer at the scholarly that they don't have up to bring men and women to­Kashmir Muslims, although di­Sudan are just few examples. Golden Temple will help. time for us. gether into partnership, notvided on what to do after sc­All these governments have Seeking military solution will I hear faculty members saying solely as competitors. The de­
c.Pssion. want secession from strived unwisely for forceful aggravate the issue hopelessly that what the students really bates are being held in resi­India. TherP are several otlwr assimilation of peoples rather as is being proved in Northern care about is their GPA, that dence halls, to give men andseparatist groups in the north­than their emotional integra­Ireland, Punjab. Kashmir, they are not intellectually women a reason to enter for­
cast fighting New Delhi. tion. Azerbaijan, Southern Sudan curious and are not inclined to eign territory. Faculty and
The way the United Kingdom The federal authorities in and elsewhere. challenge faculty members in graduate students have gotten
remains "united" in the case of many countries have always The nationalists, on the other class, much less drop by their involved as judges in order to
Northern Ireland. the "daily­treated the minority peoples hand, must evaluate things in a offices to talk informally, even get students and professorsdeath-but-long-life" character with suspicion and distrust, realistic way and struggle for a when their doors are open. talking with each other andof Yugoslavian federation, and spared no chance of subjugat­better deal nonviolently. I talk with rectors or
When bridge the gap between them.
the "uneasy cohabitation" of Claiming one's rights is noble,
ing them when they showed administrators about students, It's even scheduled during the
dil'fnrcnt national groups in even a little discomfort, and but when done with the help of they say too many students are winter (hence, "Iceberg"multinational states around the consistently refused their self­guns and horrors it brings 
so into academics that they Debates) in order to combat
world arc all mainly due to the respect. It is quite understand­death and destruction, rather don't see the wider world. the seasonal hibernation. "establishment failures"-mis­able why people snatch such a than rights. Reason and love They're not as interested in so­The debates begin this
perccption. improper address­momentous chance like this and dialogue alone can help, 
cial justice issues as they Monday, Feb. 5, and are helding to the issues, wrong han­"magic epoch" and rebel not passion and anger and war. should be. And a university is a from 9 to 10 p.m. There are 30
dling and effetfl educational against the "center" with re­Time is being outwitted by the 
place where awareness should teams this year representing all systflm. sentment and anger. "magic epoch" we are living in. be raised, where all these topics the dorms and off-campus. TheA close look at any of these The hovering factor of the Whoever (federalist or nation­should be discussed openly, formal part of the debate will
countries would certainly reveal federal states' virtual disinte­alist. Gorbachev or Singh) 
where intellects should clash. last about forty minutes, withthat thflre are genuine causes 
gration adds a dangerous di­wakes up to the reality and Sometimes I hear that graduate expert presentations from both or grievances for the people mension to the already volatile rises to the occasion will sur­students are left out of the the affirmative and negative
who foster resentment against world situation. India and the vive and cherish blessings and equation, held on the periphery sides of the issues. The remain­
the central authority. If 
Soviet Union have been held as whoever doesn't will fail and of university life. ing time will be left open for the 
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia examples to demonstrate the carry blame. 
When I hear the griping (and audience to ask questions and 
resent that they were forcefully "unity in diversity" where varied S.P. Udayakumar is a gradu­a lot of it, I think, is on the voice their personal opinions.annexed by the Soviets in 1940, ethnic communities, differing ate student in international mark) I am disappointed that 
The goal of the debates is to
the Kashmiris fef'l that they are religious faiths and numerous peace studies. ..
so many false and invisible bar­properly clarify these local, na­riers exist at a place like Notre tional and international issues Dame. After all, it is a relatively and make sentiment more fo­small university, with a lot of cused. bright and earnest people-a Meanwhile attendance and place that, in its literature and support of the Iceberg Debates public image, prides itself on gives you a chance to be a part being a community, a family, a of one of the newest and most university where ideas are dis­innovative projects of student cussed and people care about government. It will be througheach other. Getting people to­the support of the entire Notre gether shouldn't be a problem Dame community that the suc­here; nor should lively conver­cess of the debates will be 
sations about things more im­judged. portant than where you're go­ing on spring break and how Kerry Temple much Dan's starting salary will Managing Editor be. Notre Dame Magazine 
The reas~n Cm talking a!>o!!t Jan.29, 1990 


Accent
page 14 Monday, February 5, 1990 
s 

International Festival 

Puerto Rico Philippines Hungary Lebanon Ireland Mexico Korea China 
India 
"What A Wonderful World" 



Cultural Festival: 
International language of song and dance proves truly timeless 
MELISSA COMER accent writer 
!lave you ever realized just 
how much talent surrounds us 
here at Notre Damn? Wlwn was 
the last time you walked across 
the quad greeting and observ­
ing people without thinking 
about the amazing abilities that 
some of them possess? 
This weekend, I had a rare opportunity to sample the tal­ents of those around me. Tlw International Festival. pre­sented by the International Stud(mt Organization, playNI to a capacity crowd Saturday in Washington Half. It was a magnificent display of talent. 
Through song and dancn, each of the 160 pPople that participated in the 22 arts sur­cessfully brought a bit of' tlw cultures from over 3!i rountries to life. With presentations from Mexico, China, India. lrPiand. Hungary, and Lebanon just to name a few, the ISO mPmbers managed to introduen thl' audi­ence to a glimpsn of tlw im­mensely divers!' world wP fiw in. 
The acts not only spanrwd tlw globe, but also spanned the 
agPs. Moving back and forth in time, tlw l)lstival fl'atunld ev­Prything from Scottish bagpipes and a folkloric fashion show to ballroom dandng. But, tlw transition from a Korean danrP to the latest dandng erazp that's hit New York and Paris, the Lambada, was unbPiiPvabiP. Tfw "intPrnationaf language" of song and dane(\ provPd to bP truly tinwless. Tlw finaiP brought all of thPsP national fwritagPs to­gPtlwr with costumPs that WPI'I' as rolorful and brilliant as tlw rulturPs tlwy n•prPsPntPd. Joining to sing Louis Armstrong's "What !\ WondPrf'ul World" brought homP to I'VPry01w. both thosP on stagP and in tlw audiPrH'P. that it is truly a wondPrful world. Tlw ISO, by PX('hanging idl'il!-> and talent, ('ontributP morP to undPrstanding and nnjoynwnt than WP ol"tPn takn tinw to ap­prPriatn.Tiw lntPrnational FPstival. tlw !SO's biggPst an­nual ('Olltrihution. romhirwd an PVPning of PlltPrtainnwnt with iiHTPasPd awarPrwss and was a tru<' sun:Pss. 
The Observer/ John Cluver 

Marx show a crowd pleaser 
STEVE MEGARGEE MONICAYANT accent writers 
Teenage pop idol Hir.hard Marx already was three songs into his act Sunday night at the Joyce ACC when he delivered this introduction to a frenzied crowd of predominantly pubescent females: 
"South Bend, whaddaya say, how should I refer to you? As South Bend? Or Notre Dame? Let's just forget about names and kick the s---out of this building!" 
In all honesty, to say Marx really kicked anything out of the arena is subject to debate. But the audience surely had re­ceived their fill by the time Marx had unleashed.his 90­minute set of greatest hits and gyrations: 
"He looks good in tight pants," one Elkhart teeny-bop­per boasted as to why she at­tended the show. 
All eyes were on Marx, from his rear-to-the-crowd entrance on stage to his top-of-the-key­
board serenade at thn end of 
"Don't Mean Nothing." 
Marx sauntered onto the stage clad in skin-tight black pants, a tank top, and a soon­to-he discarded red jacket. 
The crowd favorites came midway through the show, when Marx sang "Angelia," then crooned couple-skating classic "Hight Here Waiting." 
Marx abruptly changed the atmosphere by exclaiming, "Enough of that mellows ---!" The crowd responded by bark­ing a dog call similar to that seen on "The Arsenio I tall Show." 
Marx miserably failed in his attempt to do a soulful rendi­tion of Bill Withers' "Ain't No Sunshine When She's Gone." lie also butchered the obscure femme fatale band Vixen's 
"Living on the Edge of a Broken Heart" in his closing number. 
Things could have been worse. Late in his show, Marx's band broke into a guitar riff from "Layla," but he knew bet­ter than to even think about singing a note of the Clapton 
dassie. 

Marx got the audi(~Ilrfl partic­ipation out of the way whnn hn instigated arm-waving and lighter-burning during "Endless Summer Nights." 
lin then reminisced while in­trodueing his first single, "Don't Mean Nothing." 

"It all started out with this funky little song about me bPing pissed off at Hollywood," he said. "The message remains the same. No matter what anybody tells you, what does it mean?" 
The crowd knew the answer, shrieking passionately, "NOTHING!" 
That's exaetly what the audi­ence thought of opening aet Poco. Pairing a recently re­united country-pop band with a Tiger Beat cover boy was any­thing but a perfect match. 
The audience forgave Marx for Poco and showered him with devotion and undergar­ments. And in return, he gave them enough banal pop and hipsway to last a lifetime. 

Monday, February 5, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
Spindler will forego his final season at Pitt to play in NFL 
(AP) -Marc Spindler, saying the firing of former coach Mike Gottfried figured in his deci­sion, has become the second prominent Pittsburgh player in three years to pass up his se­nior season and turn pro. 
Just as All-American running back Craig "Ironhead" lleyward did two years ago, Spindler said Saturday he will petition the NFL to be included in its April draft "because there's nothing more to prove at Pitt." 
''I'm going to make somebody (in the NFL) happy before it's all over," said Spindler, a sec­ond team All-American defen­sive tackle. ''I've had a great time here at Pitt, and Pitt has a great tradition, but it's time to 
move  on  and  prove  myself  
somewhere  else.  I've  proved  
myself in  high school  and in  

college, and now it's time to prove myself at another level. 
"This is something I've wanted to do my whole life ... since I was 8 years old." 
Spindler joins a fast-growing list of blue-chip college under­classmen who have decided to turn pro, including Alabama linebacker Keith McCants, Florida running back Emmitt Smith, Arkansas running back Barry Foster and Virginia run­ning back Marcus Wilson. 
"In time, Marc's going to make a great contribution" in the NFL, Pitt's new coach, Paul Hackett, said. ''I'm disap­pointed, but I wish him well. 
"I feel very strongly that Marc should stay here and fin­ish school but Marc and I talked for hours about it and I understand his standpoint. He's been a class guy ever since he's been here. He's a real leader." 
The 6-foot-5, 270-pound Spindler, 20, met last weekend in Kansas City with agent Tom Condon, but said he hasn't picked an agent. He also is con­sidering Pittsburgh attorney Ralph Cindrich and Los Angeles agent Marvin Demoff. 
While in Kansas City, Spindler received a clean bill of health from a physician who examined the right knee he hurt Nov. 25 against Penn State. The injury 10rced him to miss Pitt's final regular season game against Rutgers on Dec. 2, but he re­turned for Pitt's victory over Texas A&M in the John Hancock Bowl. Spindler also was cleared by a Pitt physician. 
Spindler led Pitt with 73 regu­lar-season tackles, including 49 solo tackles, and had 4 1/2 quarterback sacks and 12 tackles for losses. A second­team Associated Press All­American and first-team All­East selection, he was one of the 12 finalists for the Lombardi Award presented to the nation's top collegiate line­man. 
One pro scouting service lists him as the top defensive line­man in college football. 


AP Photo New York Islanders goalie Glenn Healy, shown here making a save against the Washington Capitals, made 39 saves in shutting out the Buffalo Sabres 1-0 last night. Elsewhere in the NHL, the New York Rangers squeaked by Minnesota 4-3, the Montreal Canadiens shut out the Hartford Whalers 2-0, and Jari Kurri's goal broke a tie to give the Edmonton Oilers a 5-4 victory over Washington yesterday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center.. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES Word Processing  LOST Pair of red wire-rimmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963.  For sale: Commodore computer, disk drive, printer, accessories and tons o' software. Best offer-must go. John x3584  0 SONY 3.5" DISKETIE SALE!!! 0 $1.49 each or 10 for $12.99 THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune AVOID THE RUSH!  I need Tickets to the NO-Georgia Tech Men's B-ball game. John x3584  0 Holy Saint Jude, apostle and martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all who invoke your special patronage  
Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114 BE YOUR OWN BOSS! Distributorships. Dealerships, Money making opportunities.  LOST?: If you have a navy & tan leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag that doesn't belong to you, PLEASE return it! Contained checkbook. Sharp graphic calculator. and MANY other valuble items! REWARD-no  STEREO: 11 Owlch, dual deck. 3 way spks, 10 bd eq.,seperate tuner/amp,turntable.case. HARDLY USED! IMMACULATE! Call Tony 289-8020. MUST SEE!  AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! COME IN TO THE OBSERVER SOON TO ENTER YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. In 1986 the Board of Trustees  BROTHER MICHAEL, The students are all over the PLACE!!! And there is NAH-thing the staff can do!!! With affection. Flanner Staff  in time of need to you I have recourse and from the depths of my heart I humbly beg to who God has given such power to come to my assistance help in my present and urgent petition. In return, I promise to make your name  
Franchises. & Mail order. Detail. send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company, Box 3006, Boston. MA. 02130  questions asked! Please call 283­4354  TICKETS  promised to divest but didn't. Thursday, Feb.8 they meet again. Join the AAN at 12:15 Thursday for a vigil and demonstration on the  CLUB 23 Offering our specialty  known and cause you to be invoked. 3 Our Fathers 3 Hail Marys 3 Glorias for 9 consecutive days. Publication must be  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz Claiborne leather shoulder bag that doesn't belong to you.  NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853  Fieldhouse Mall. Come because you hate Apartheid and Because you love Notre Dame.  MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5-11 pm Monday to Saturday  promised. Saint Jude, pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Thank you. DJF  
CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS regardless of condition. 277-9954.  PLEASE return it! Contains many valuble items, including Sharp  I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259  hiag  HAPPY BIRTHDAY COL!!!  
USED TEXTBOOKS AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies. Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/St. Mary's P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 283-4256 GOTCHA PLAY THE SURVIVAL GAME Assasinate your friends and win BIG$$$. Don't miss your chance to to play. Call x2046.  WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL I -800-343-8373 WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1 ,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!! Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1 ,400 Cost: Zero Investment Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800) 932-0528/1 (800) 950-8472, ext. 10.  HELP! For Sale -2 Tickets BILLY JOEL Indianapolis -Feb. 19 Face Value. Kim X4174. I NEED 4 Georgia-TECH TIX PLEASE CALL DON X1723 NEED 4 MISSOU AND 4 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS! CALL MATI AT 22,65 NEED 10 tix to Missouri game URGENT!!!! call Dan 2274 PERSONALS FOR RENT; 4 Bedroom home very de.iln, w /range, refrigerator, fireplace, AC  Only 5 more days until Mike Murphy's birthday !!! HUMANITAS JOURNAL now accepting essays. fiction and book reviews. Submit to English Office by feb. 16th. Needed: Anyone with any form of electronic percussion/drum machine/sampler/4­track/keyboard for temporary experimentallindustriallperforman ce art project. Call Jason at x3677. ''"""WINTERFEST'"' TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES "'"'"WINTERFEST"" FEBRUARY 4 -I 0"'"""  r--SPRING BREAK 1Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get 1 Early Bird Savings. Third year !running to Cancun. Rio. Bermuda I and the Bahamas Call Doug at: ~­283-1818 MAURA LONG!!!! How's London? Has your shower broken yet? We miss you--and London. Don't study. CLC Seniors............................................... Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club from 1Opm -2am Got a Date/ Need a Date Senior Formal Spring Raffle Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc.. ********************* ** Scopes, "It's just the London  Just think -only 1 more year and you can go out without worrying. Have a pieceful weekend!! Luv, BizMarkie St. Jude, please hear my prayer. DESIGN COMPETITION Design the cover for the Junior Class Scrapbook and WIN $30. Submit entries to Jr. class office by Friday. Daytona Beach Largest trip !on campus 8 pm Feb 7  
LOST/FOUND Graphic calculator, checkbook, etc! REWARD-no questions asked! PLEASE call283-4354 anytime!  Wanted: Ride for 2 to Dennison University. ANY weekend. Call Molly, X4097 For Rent BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  1019 E. Madison-Near ND Student R.ale .ll $200/bednn. -1 mo. call 232-5563 ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love  Daytona Beach Over 1/2 Full ~ (Last yr. 160 stud.) Sign U~s 8 pm Feb 7 LaFortune Th'later 284-WU Jmnilcr  skyline telling me your not mine." I miss you still ... Billiam SUMMER JOBS UNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girls Camp. Maine Top Salary, Rm/Bdllaundry. Travel  LaFortune Th'later 284-4-llli Jmnilcr Attention Shoppers !I Only five more days untiL .. Kathy P. "Goddess of Love" will be the ripe old age of  
FOUND: In Library Auditorium--2 keys on a Seattle. Washington keychain. Room number 232. Call Ken x1773.  219-291-7153. FOR SALE NO SPORTS wall calendar now  and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 Parrot Heads Forever !I! SEAN BROWN ... I'm sorry  _CLUB 23 Featuring up & coming bands. Don1 miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO'  Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activrties: Archery. Arts & Crafts. Baseball. Basketball. Bicycling, Chetlrleading, Dance, Drama. Drums. Fencing, GoH. urtar, Gymnastics, Hockey. Horseback,  Twenty Two Buy her a gilt now-But wait! There's MOREl! You also get a FREE, yes, FREE Chia Pet when you buy her a gift-Watch this space for details ...  --'<'  
Lost: set of roomkeys with 1988 National Championship keyring. If found please call x1419 Lost: Men's Signet Ring lnitialsDTC Call David x4779  only $5.00! Includes action photos &sporting event schedules. Mail order to: AND BOOKS,702 S.Michigan South Bend,46618 Technics compact disc player with remote $165 x3443.  people think you put that personal in for yourself. They are just jealous-especially JOEY DIMBERIO because I didn't put one in yet for his B'day on February 4th. Anyway, both of you have awesome 21st B'days!!!!!! I hope this clears things up!  BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise+ 6 days $279, includes meals, parties, accomodations, some rooms n:t.1e kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travelt-800-638-6786.  Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano. Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer. Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu. 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck. N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536.  ANY ONE PLANNING TO GO TO WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY FOR A WEEKEND PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL!$$$ MICHELLE @284-5523 MAGGIE, I'LL BE AT DAVE'S, WANT TO MAKE IT A THREESOME?  

a 
~e16 
Rowdy Duke students make Devils' opponents miserable 
By THERESA KELL V 
Sports Editor 
Durham, N.C.-The Duke fa­natics at Cameron Indoor Stadium were true to from Sunday in Duke's 88-76 win over the Notre Dame men's basketball team. The sixth man. the zoo, and the reason why Duke is 55-5 at home over th•~ last four years were out to make the game rough for the men in green. and black and white. 
But as the spittle flew onto press row, it was apparent that they weren't the creative fans one might expect, nor were they "toned down and less vulgar," as per request from the Duke administration. 
Sure, the traditional Duke cheers, chants and taunts were heard, but the predominant message sent from the student bleachers was that the referees and everyone associated with Notre Dame rhyme with duck. 
The Duke fans are extraordi­narily knowledgeable about basketball. and equally vocal about that knowledge. llowever. that didn· t stop them from taking any and every op­portunity to threaten bodily harm to refen~e Dick Paparo, his wife, children, mother. fa­ther. the in-laws and the family dog-all in good fun. of course. 
The Duke students, practi­cally sitting on the court and literally breathing down the players' backs. are really some­thing. Especially entertaining is Duke's farewell to opposing players as they foul out. A pseudo-friendly wave and a de­V(1loping roar continues until the player sits, then a cheerful "sen ya," in unison, from the 2000 or so students surround­ing th(~ court. The Duke faithful showed this onn ofT three times against th(~ Irish. 
MaybP all this PxcitPmnnt is too mueh for Duke. Thn BIU(~ Devil mascot. in a f'rp,nzy of (1rnotion during a time out, nearly poked out Christian Laettner's eye with his triton. 
ThP. excitement the fans show and the fun they have con­tributn to Dukn baskntball. And while the jury is still out on Cameron and thn fans being more clever of crude, Duke's home court is not an inviting plaee for the opposition. 
Laettner and Alaa Abdelnaby 
led Duke in scoring while shut­
ting down Notre Dame's big 
men and eventually forcing 
them out of the game. 
Abdelnaby shot 10-of-1 0 from the free throw line to take advantage of Notre Dame's foul trouble. and he shot 6-of-9 from the floor to lead all scor­ers with 22 points. Laettner had ten boards, 14 points and five blocked shots. 
Notre Dame's inside combi­nation of LaPhonso Ellis and Keith Robinson was held in check. Robinson managed only five points and four rebounds before fouling out with 3:30 to play. Ellis had 12 points in the first half, but was hampered by foul trouble on both ends of the court in the second half. He got his fifth with 10:43 to play. 
"I don't like losing Robinson and Ellis," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said. "It hurts us." 
The confusion that sur­rounded Ellis' final foul was fodder for the rabid Duke crowd, who held the officials in low enough esteem as it was. Both teams were battling for a rebound on the Duke side when Laettner was called for his third foul. 
The officials corrected them­selves, calling the foul on No. 30 for Notre Dame. No such player existed. Finally, the called the foul on Ellis, to the delight of the Duke faithful. He finished with 15 points and 13 rebounds. leading the Irish in 
both categories despite just 26 
minutes of playing time. 
Three technical fouls were called in the hard-fought con­test, two on Duke and another on Notre Dame. The first was on the Duke bench as head coach Mike Krzyzewski protested a no-call when Notre Dame's Elmer Bennett pulled down a defensive rebound, scattering Duke players in his wake. Joe Fredrick converted one of two free throws, but the Irish could not score on the re­sulting possession. 
The second technical was called on Duke's Abdelnaby in the second half. He and Fredrick had a feud running through the half, and 
Millard's touchdown sparks NFC to victory in Pro Bowl 
(API -Minnesota nose tackle Keith Millard scored on an 8­yard fumble return and Los Angeles Hams cornnrbaek Jnrry Gray added a touchdown on a 51-yard interception return Sunday as the NFC beat the AFC 27-21 in a defense-domi­nated Pro Bowl. 
The NFC, which built a 27-7 lead on Millard's touchdown late in the third quarter, barely hnld off the AFC in a wild fourth quarter. 
After ttle AFC scored twice to pull to within six points, Dave Krieg threw what would have been a winning 5-yard touch­down to Seattle teammate Brian Blades with five seconds remaining. 
But the AFC was called for an illegal formation, and Krieg's next pass sailed out of the end zone as time expired. 
lie had marched his team 
from its own 9-yard line before 
time finally ran out on him. 
Krieg threw a 5-yard touch­down pass to the Dolphins Ferrell Edmunds to pull the AFC to within 27-14 with 8:08 remaining. 
Browns linebacker Mike Johnson then provided a defen­sive TD for the AFC, when he intercepted Mark Rypien's pass -one of three interceptions off the Washington quarterback­and returned it 23 yards to pull the AFC within six points. 
WE'RE FIGHTII\JG FOR 'lOUR LIFE 
American Heart Ja Association 'V 



Abdelnaby was nailed with the T in an effort by the officials to keep the contest under control. Fredrick canned both freebies, but the Irish again failed to 
convert on the possession. 
"It didn't ruin the day," Abdelnaby said, "unless my mom or dad holds it against me." 
The final technical was on the 
Notre Dame bench, and while it didn't affect the outcome of the game, it did widen Duke's win­ning margin. Fredrick, aftm hitting a rebound jump shot called a time out with 12 sec­onds to play, but the Irish had used up their quota. Duke's Joe Cook hit the two free throws, and Duke converted the posses­sion as time expired, giving Duke its final 12-point margin. 
Monday, February 5, 1990 
Duke 
continued from paQe 24 
but we couldn't do it. In the second half, even at the end we stayed after them." 
"I thought we played good defense," Krzyzewski said. "They couldn't catch the ball facing the basket; they had to catch it facing away, and that's what you try to do with your defense-make them do things they aren't accustomed to." 
It worked, as Notre Dame's shooting improved minutely in the second' -half to finish the day at 30-of-79 for 38 percent. 
Duke pumped its lead to 20 with 13 minutes to play on an Abdelnaby reverse that made the score 63-43. From that point, Notre Dame battled back, but time ran out, and the Blue Devils turned an 8-point game into the final 88-76 final on the strength of a last-minute Notre Dame technical foul. 
"I don't think that's good basketball. playing catch-up all the time," Phelps said. "You have to put yourself in the posi­tion to come from behind, and we haven't done that all year. I like Duke's team. They're good and aggressive on defense, and they're very unselfish." 
Despite the loss, the Notre Dame players would welcome the chance to play Duke again. 
"Sure we would," Ellis said. "We weren't outmatched by any stretch of the imagination. if anything, I thought we were deeper. We had an off day, but I thought we played well with them." 

**SOPHOMORES** Sign ups lor JPW Escape in Chicago start Mon., Feb. 5 1st Door LaFortune -next to the infomation desk t$&0> 


QUALITY INNOVATION LEADERSIIIP 
Inland Steel is internationally recognized as a progressive company; a vital force in America's industrial community. Our consistent innovations continue to offer challenging op­portunities to dedicated people from a variety of disciplines: 
• CHEMICAL ENGINEERS PhD 
• ANALYTICAL/INORGANIC/ PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY BS MS PhD • POLYMER PhD 
• MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
Find out more about our state-of-the-art, future-minded com­pany and the stimulating challenges we offer our profession­als. 
Inland Steel representatives will be on campus to conduct interviews on February 14 
For additional information, consult the specific job descrip­tions in our company brochure at your placement office, or contact our Personnel Department. 
..Inland Steel 
East Chicago, IN 46312 a subsidiary of Equal Opportunity Employer M/F Inland Steel Industries, Inc. 
-----------------------~... ...----~------------~~~~--------.. 
Monday, February 5, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Top-ranked Tigers bulldoze Buffaloes; Kansas triumphs 
(AP)-Missouri and Colorado are streaking in different direc­tions in the Big Eight. 
Anthony Peeler scored 17 points Sunday as the top­ranked Tigers routed the Buffaloes 93-69 for their 28th straight home victory. It was Colorado's 48th consecutive regular-season road loss in the conference. 
All five Missouri starters scored in double figures. 
"They're so tough to key on," Colorado coach Tom Miller said. "That's why they're so good." 
Six of Peeler's points came during a decisive second-half run by Missouri, which im­proved to 21-1 overall and 7-0 in the Big Eight. Colorado fell to 9-11 overall and 1-6 in the conference. 
In other Top 25 games on Sunday, it was No. 3 Arkansas 103, Texas 96 in overtime; No. 5 Duke 88, Notre Dame 76; Ohio State 91, No. 10 Louisville 88 in overtime; and No. 11 Illinois 70, No. 22 Indiana 65. In a night game, No. 20 Loyola Marymount played at San Francisco. 
On Saturday, it was No. 2 Kansas 85, No. 9 Oklahoma 74; No. 4 Michigan 77, Wisconsin 63; No. 6 Georgetown 74, No. 18 St. John's 67; No. 7 Syracuse 90, Florida State 69; Michigan State 64, No. 8 Purdue 53; No. 12 UNLV 88, North Carolina State 88-82; No. 13 Connecticut 92, Providence 77; and No. 14 LSU 148, Loyola Marymount 141 in overtime. 
Also, No. 15 La Salle 89, Iona 73; No. 16 UCLA 87, DePaul 77; No. 17 Georgia Tech 90, Maryland 84; No. 21 Oregon State 84, Stanford 70; No. 23 Xavier of Ohio 88, Dayton 81; and No. 24 Arizona 75, Washington 60. 
Kansas 85, Oklahoma 74 
Rick Calloway and Kevin Pritchard keyed a second-half run as Kansas won its 14th straight home !!arne. The Jayhawks (22-1, 5-1 Big Eight) shot just 38 percent in the foul­filled game, far below their NCAA-leading 54.3 average. The Sooners (15-3, 4-2) played without William Davis, their leading rebounder and No. 2 scorer. 
Illinois 70, 
Indiana 65 
Kendall Gill scored 19 of his 25 points in the second half as Illinois held off Indiana. Although the Fighting Illini held a 12-point lead with five min­utes remaining, it took two free throws by Gill with 13 seconds left to clinch the victory. Illinois improved to 16-4 overall and 6­4 in the Big Ten, while Indiana fell to 14-5, 4-5. 
Connecticut 92, Providence 77 
Chris Smith scored 21 points as Connecticut (19-3, 7-2 Big East) won its ninth straight. Carlton Screen led Providence with 16 points. 

NVA Late Night Olympics Friday, Feb. 9, 1990, 8 p.m.-4 a.m. Deadline for entries: Tuesday, February 6 
see your dorm rep for more information 
Sign up in advance: Obstacle Course, Nerf Football, Volleyball, Indoor Soccer, Halfcourt Hoops, Broomball, InnerTube Water Polo, Water Lacrosse, Whiffle Ball, Racquetball, Table Tennis, Arm Wrestling, Wallyball 

...J Cf'J 
Celebrity Dunk Tank 10 p.m.-2 a.m. 
Georgetown 7 4, Saint John's 67 
Mark 'Pillmon scored 20 points and Georgetown pulled away in the second half. The Hoyas (17-2, 7-2 Big East) trailed 37-32 at halftime and took their first lead with 12:41 left. Jayson Williams, the sec­ond-leading scorer for St. John's (17-6, 6-4), reinjured his right foot and is out for the season. 
Syracuse 90, 
Florida St. 69 
Billy Owens scored 25 points, 
including 12 during a decisive 
10-minute stretch in the first 
half as the Orangemen (16-3) 
won their fourth straight. 
Florida State played its second 
game without leading scorer 
Tharon Mayes, who was sus­oenrlerl inrlefinitelv after being charged with aggravated bat­tery against a school employee. 
Ohio St. 91, Louisville 88, 
Freshman Jim Jackson scored 21 points, including a tip-in of an air ball with 15 seconds left in overtime, as Ohio State rallied from 17 points down for the victory. Ohio State, which trailed 57-40 early in the second half, took an 89-87 lead on Perry Carter's bank shot with 1:31 left in overtime. 
UNLV 88, N.C. State 82 

Larry Johnson scored 24 points and UNLV (16-4) used a 10-0 burst late in the second half to hold off the Wolfpack. Rodney Monroe scored 31 for 
N.C. State (15-6). Because of a postgame brawl Tlm"rsday night against Utah State, secu-· rity at UNLV's Thomas & Mack Center was tightened and the teams used different tunnels to the court. 
Arkansas103, Texas 96 
Lee Mayberry hit a game-ty­ing 3-pointer with four seconds left in regulation, then led an overtime surge that carried Arkansas to a victory over Texas. Arkansas (19-2, 10-0 Southwest Conference) ex­tended its winning streak to 11, while Texas fell to 14-6 overall and 7-3 in the conference. 
LSU 148, Loyola Marym. 141 
LSU's Shaquille O'Neal had 20 points, 24 rebounds and a school-record 12 blocked shots in a game that was so fast paced, the play-by-play type­writer burned out. Chris Jackson scored 34 points for LSU before fouling out with 
2:53 left in overtime. Hank Gathers led Loyola with 48 points. 
Michigan St. 64, Purdue 53 
Purdue, the hottest team in the Big Ten, had its coldest day of the season. The Boilermakers shot only 29 per­cent from the field and lost their first confer«;)nce game of the season after ei~ht wins. Steve Smith led Michigan State with 22 points. 
UCLA 87, DePaul 77 
Trevor Wilson, Don MacLean and freshman Tracy Murray each scored 18 points for UCLA. After DePaul pulled within three points in the sec­ond half, the Bruins (15-4) scored the next seven to pull away. 
Georgia Tech 90, Maryland 84 
Dennis Scott scored 1 7 of his 26 points in the second half and Georgia Tech twice rallied from 11-point deficits. The Yellow Jackets (14-4, 4-4 Atlantic Coast) trailed 55-44 with 17:56 remaining. 
Michigan 77, 
Wisconsin 63 

Terry Mills scored 20 points and sparked a 21-4 first-half surge by Michigan (16-4, 6-3 Big Ten). Danny Jones scored 25 points for Wisconsin. Michigan played without Sean Higgins, who has a stress frac­ture in his foot. 

Anthony Peeler and the Missouri Tigers clawed up Colorado Sunday 93-69. Second-ranked Kansas kept pace with the Tigers by recording an 85-74 victory over 9th-ranked Oklahoma in Allen Field House. 
··~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~ 
I • I 
~~ ~~~@ lMJ@OO~W~ .~~ 
Impress
1J •• 
.. ·~ 
~;. gJ\1\J~:Y J\lfrF@~lW @J[F)~OOO® rnJ~~J\~~ ~~ 
.. ·~•J •• 
~~ Earn money by working JPW ~~ ~:. *server, set up, &break down positions ~~ ~;. available* ~~ 
.. 
·~ 

~;. Sign up at dinner ~~ 
.. ·~ 
~;. SOH Feb. 6, 7, 8 ~~ ~~ Bring a passport, or bring your social security ~~ 
··' 
~~ or birth certificate along with your student ~~ 
•J •• 
~:. I D or drivers license. ~~ 
.. 
·~ 

:~ No Financial Aid Requirement ~~ 
•J •• 
~;. • J" • J" • J" • J" • J". J".J" •.J".J". J". J".J" • J" • J" • J" • J" • J" • J" • J" • J" • J" ,;, J" ,;, J",;, •••J" • J" • J" • J" • J". J". J" ,;, J" • J" .-J".Jill;~ 


Monday, February 5, 1990

page 18 The Observer 
Sixers edge Bucks; Pistons steamroll Jazz; Celtics win 
. 
(AP) -Derek . Smith co~­

verted a three-pomt play with 
25 seconds left and Ron 
Anders~n made . four free 
throws m the closm_g secon~s 
Sunday as the Phii~delphia 
76ers held off the MII~aukee 
Buc~s 10?-1 02 for their 11th 
straight VIctory. . 
!h~ 76ers, on _their longest 

wmnmg streak smce 198~-85 
when th~y wo~ 1~ st~aight, 
played With ~ l_Impmg Ch~rl~s 
Barkley, who lllJUred a g~om 111 
the firs~ quarte~ but still fin­
ished with 14 pomts. They also
lost Hick Mahorn, who was 
ejected with nine minutes teft in 
the third quarter. 
But Johnny Dawkins had 21 

points and Mike Gminski 20, in-eluding 10 in the third quarter when the 76ers buitt their tead by outscoring the Bucks 32-19. 
Paul Pressey scornd 13 of his

21 points in the fourth quarter 
to bring the Bucks back and 
.Jay Humphries addnd 20. 
Pressey made two frmJ throws 

to pull the Bueks to 95-92 with 
1:46 left but Barkley converted a three-point play to give Philadelphia a 98-92 lead with 
1:25 remaining. Barkley had 10 of his points in the fourth quar­ter. 
Pressey made two more free throws and Humphries scored to pull the Bucks to 98-96 with 39 seconds to go, but Smith worked loose from the Bucks' press and dunked and was fouled. The three-point play made it 101-96. Anderson then iced the victory with four free throws in the final 12 seconds. 
Gminski sparked a 14-6 run closing the third quarter with eight points as the 76ers took an 80-69 lead headed into the fourth period. 
Barkley, who'd averaged 29 points in the first 10 games of the streak, played only 15 min­utes in the first half and didn't start the second. He re-entered the with 6:40 left in the third, two minutes after Mahorn was charged with a technical and then ejected by Lee Jones. 
Pistons 115, Jazz 83 
The Detroit ·Pistons held Utah to its lowest point total of the season Sunday, beating the .Jazz 115-83 for their seventh straight victory. 
The loss was only the second in 13 games for the .Jazz, who dropped into a first-place tie with San Antonio in the Midwest Division. The victory increased Detroit's lead to four games over second-place Chicago in the Central Division. 
The Pistons, who led 66-39 at halftime, increased their advan­tage to as many as 34 points in the second half. 
.James Edwards led Detroit with 21 points, while lsiah Thomas and Mark Aguirre each added 16. 
Karl Malone scored 19 points for the .Jazz, whose previous low this season came in a 92-86 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Nov. 25. 
Edwards scored 14 points in the first quarter as Detroit surged to a 35-19 lead. The .Jazz scored eight straight points t~ slice into Detroit's lead in the second quarter, but Vinnie .Johnson then hit two consecutive jumpers to ignite a 15-2 run by the Pistons. 

McHale had the first six points The Kings dropped their fifth The Celtics led 38-25 when points. He passed Bob and Smith, Boston's first-round consecutive game, their eighth McHale sank two free throws McAdoo's total of 18,787 draft choice, had the last six, in a row to Boston and 13th in that began a 13-0 run and points and moved in to 19th turned a 24-19 lead after one their last 14 road games. They made the score 51-25 with 4:11 place in NBA career scoring quarter into a 57-29 bulge with w~re paced. by Kenny Smith left in the period. Sacra~e~to wit~ 18,799. . 
2:26 left in the second period. with 18 pomts and Harold closed to 51-29 but Sm1 th Bird also extended his sue-
Boston ted 63-42 at halftime Pressley with 16. capped the Boston surge with cessful free throw streak to 65 and by 21 to 3 3 points McHale got the first three three field goals. by making two. lie broke a sec-throughout the second half. baskets of the second period, The ~eltics made 15 of 18 ond-place tie with Dan Issei at 
The Celtics, who beat giving Boston a 30-19 lead. shots m the second quarter 63 straight and trails only Sacramento for the 11th With the score 32-23, he sank after hitting just 10 of 27 in the Calvin Murphy's NBA record of straight time in Boston since his second 3-pointer of the first period. 78. losing on Jan. 17, 1979, were game.' fo~rth in four g_ames and ~a~ry ~ird: scoreless after Sacramento's Danny Ainge, led by McHale with 21 poi~ts fifth m his career. His first of missmg_ his SIX firs~-half sh~ts, playing his first game in Boston and Smith and Jim Paxson With the game gave Boston the lead made six of seven m the third since being traded by the Celtics season highs of 16. for good 22-19. period and finished with 14 last Feb. 2~; scored two points. 
-------••••••••-----------•
IT d 

1 I UeS ayS• A G t D t t
rea ay 0 mee
lHJ~l}l.>]j),. ~]])ijj~ 

Your Friends at ChiChi's
rGJfficQ) 

$1.00 off Texas Nachos expires 2/26/90 
Love, Ag, Cindy, Missy, Jeff, Jocelyn, Terry, Stud, Julie, Chris, & Scott 

---------------------------~ 

Press here for a great
data processing career. 
The right time. The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment You'll State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. 
math background, there may be servlte tradition it has become 
Contact your Placement Director. 
Celts 121, Kings 89 
1 very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and 
Our recruiter will be on campus
Kevin McHale scored 14 

f.taiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of 
Feb.12

points and rookie Michael 
largest corporate data procesz­the top life insurance companies _
Smith added 10 in a 33-10 sec­
Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant
ing facilities in the country. in the country.
ond-quarter spurt that carried 
Director, Home Office Personnel
the Boston Celtics to a 121-89 
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. 
Relations, One State Farm Plaza,
victory over the Sacramento 
ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art 
Bloomington, Illinois 61701.
Kings on Sunday night. 
STATF FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
The scoring burst, in which 


Tennis team gentlemanly in win over nasty WVU squad 
---·~--·---------------------------------------------------------~-------­
Monday, February 5, 1990 The Observer page 19 
J 
ICEBERG DEBATES 
ICEBERG DEBAJES 
Begin this Monday 
Get out and support your team 
A Debate on Drug Legalization will be held at a dorm near you. 
By BOB MITCHELL Virginia rolled in to battle the Sports Writer gentlemen of Notre Dame. A match full of mutual question­
Tennis is a gentleman's ing and heated exchanges saw game. Tennis conjures up im­the 24th ranked Mountaineers, ages of strawberry and cream a team that only John McEnroe at Wimbledon and pure white could like, fell prey to the un­shorts. The only time players ranked but aspiring Notre talk to each other is at the end Dame squad,5-4. of the match as they shake The Irish chalked up their ends. first victory over a ranked 
Tennis is full of Stefan team during the Bob Bayliss Edbergs and Ivan Lendls who era and improved their record do no even speak when they are to 3-1 on the season. The Irish spoken time. Sure, there are accomplished this feat without your mavericks like Andre the services of senior captain Agassi and John McEnroe but and No. 2 player, Walter for the most part tennis· is Dolhare who could possibly comprised of soft-spoken play­suffering from mononucleosis. ers like Mats Wilander. "The matches weren't always 
Why should there be any pretty but nobody quit," said Andre Agassis or John Bayliss. ·"This win gives us a lot McEnroes in collegiate tennis? of confidence. I thought we 
On Sunday afternoon a band competed very well today. It of Mountaineers from West was a great win because we 
Barkley to miss All-Star game 
(AP) -Charles Barkley, But he came back in the game bothered for three weeks by a in the second half after team­groin pull, said Sunday he'll mate Rick Mahorn was ejected. skip next Sunday's NBA All­Barkley finished with 14 points, Star game in Miami. 10 in the fourth quarter. 
"There is no way I can go to "I enjoy taking my family, it's the All-Star game because l more of a disappointment for don't want to hurt it worse and them," Barkley said of the All­I need the time to rest," said Star Game. Barkley, who leads the "There is no sense of me go­Philadelphia 76ers with aver­ing down there and hurting my­ages of 25 points and 12 re­self. I need that rest," he said. bounds per game. "I pulled it about three weeks 
Barkley, voted a starter at ago and it's been getting worse. forward for the Eastern Playing this (Sunday's) game Conference, was limping really didn't help. Sunday as he helped the Sixers "I've been doing a lot of extend their winning streak to stretching. about an hour's 11 games with a 105-102 vic­worth everyday." tory over Milwaukee. Barkley said he wasn't sure 
Barkley played only 15 min­how much he would be able to utes in the first half, scoring play Monday night when thf' two points with no rebounds. 76ers · 

David DiLucia showed that we could do some­thing without Walter. At this point of the season, we look better than we are supposed to be at this point in the season." 
After a 3-3 singles split, Notre Dame's number-two and number-three doubles team earned a victory over West Virginia.The No. 3 team of Andy Zurker-Ryan Wenger turned in the fifth point of the match by downing WVU's No.3 team, 7-6, 6-3. With their dou­bles victory the No. 3 team al­lowed the Notre Dame tennis program to step up another rung of the ladder to natjonal recognition. 

"It is a confidence builder to get a win over a team like West Virginia," said Bayliss. "It gives us a break into the group of nationally ranked teams that we are going to continue to play throughout the season." 
And if the Irish are going to ride this wave of good fortune, a good deal of the pressure will fall on the shoulders of fresh­man Chuck Coleman who as­sumed the No. 2 spot in Dolhare's absence. Coleman knocked off 1989's No. 2 ju­
nior collegiate player Patrick Westoo in three sets, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
"We got some unexpected wins at certain spots," said Coleman. "The win against Westoo was a big win for me. It was a tough match but I just tried to hang in there and make him hit as many balls 115 I could because l wasn't playing that well." 
Coleman's victory wasn't the only noteworthy achievement turned in by the Irish. Freshman Andy Zurker de­feated Ron Mercer, 6-4, 1-6, 6­
4. And Notre Dame's No. 1 player Dave DiLucia used this weekend to settle some scores . DiLucia who is currently ranked No. 44 in collegiate tennis defeated Jobey Foley who had beaten DiLucia in the fall. 7-6. 6-3. 
page 20 The Observer 
Gambling allegations haunt Texas football 
(AP) -University of Texas president William Cunningham has ordered an investigation into allegations that as many as 20 football players regularly placed bets with a teammate on college and pro sporting events over the past two years. 
The Austin-American Statesman reported Saturday that a Texas player placed bets with a teammate and a former player witnessed the bets being placed. The teammate who took the bets left the school last fall, the newspaper said. 
The alleged betting never in­volved UT games, one player said. 
Cunningham said any players found to have bet on college games -a violation of NCAA rules-would be declared inel­igible and their names reported to the NCAA. 
---·~·------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds said he spoke with UT coach David McWilliams about the allegations over the week­end. Dodds said he is confident McWilliams and his staff were unaware of any possible gam­bling activities by Longhorns players. 
"I don't think our coaches know anything about that," Dodds said. ''I'm comfortable that nobody on the staff knew about any of this." 
In addition to the players who said they placed or witnessed the bets, three other players told the newspaper they knew of betting taking place in a dormitory. The players said that during the past two years, 10 to 20 Texas football players placed bets with the teammate. 

The players, all of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that between $2 and $100 was bet on college football and basketball games and pro football. basketball, baseball and hockey games. The players said the betting has since stopped. 
"It is the university's policy to investigate any allegations of violations of NCAA rules," Cunningham said. "It also is our policy to report confirmed rules violations to the NCAA. We arP currently looking into an allegation regarding gam­bling of student athletes. 
"If any violation of NCAA rules is substantiated, it will be reported to the NCAA. Any stu­dent athlete found to be in vio­lation of NCAA rules will be de­clared ineligible." 
Monday, February 5, 1990 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volunteers are needed to assist youngsters from Logan Center from 10 to 11 a.m. Friday, Feb. 9, at the McKinley School swimming pool. Call Logan Center at 289-4831 or Dennis Stark at 239-5983 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will have a pizza party at its 7 p.m. meeting tonight in Montgomery Theater. Women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw will be the guest speaker. 
NVA Late Night Olympics deadline is Tuesday. See dorm reps for more information. 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:45 p.m. Tues~ay in 204 O'Shag. Prospective members are invited. · 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 
\Ve'rem~oringinaspecialsubject.lOu. Get reat(V to fly for only S/18 roundtrip-twice. Choose from many ofthe You're part of a special group more thm1 180 Northwest Airlines cities in the 48 contiguous United States. of people. So we've created special Amc:rican E."-ptt>ss privileges with you in mind. Student Airfare The tough assignments and long nights of college will soon pay off. In fact, they already have. !118 As a student with a bright Day or night, future, you're eligible for American we're here to answer Express® Cardmembership now. questions or You see, we believe in your potential. help you in an That's why we've made it easier emergency. for you to qualify for the Card on your own, even if you don't have a job. And by becoming a Cardmem­ber now, you can take advantage Exclusive discounts, artides, profilt•s of the exclusive Northwest student ... American Express®Card CONNECTIONS is the travel privilege picttired here. magazine designed especially for students. The fact is, we've added special student benefits like these because we're dedicated to serving our Cardmembers.![something you just bought is accidentally damaged, lost or stolen-no problem. just about So apply now. About six weeks everything you buy with the Card is protected. after the Card arrives, you'll receive your Northwest travel certificates~ Call today. We're looking for­ward to welcoming one of our most important Cardmembers. You. Acceptance is easier now, while you're in school, than it ever will be again. To apply, all Membership Has Its Privileges® you have to do is call. APPLY NOW: 1-800-446-5389 ~ NORTHWEST AIRUNES  
THE AMERICAN EXPREss• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER.  


--------------------------------------------------------------------------.--.----------~--~-.--..------------~ 
TOMORROW IS THE TANNING DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES 
Monday, February 5, 1990 
The Observer 

Women struggle in win over Aces 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
When one team beats another by 34 points and plays them again in the same week, the game is not expected to be close. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team would chal­lenge that assertion however. After trouncing the University of Evansville 79-45 last Monday night, the Irish had to overcome a ten point deficit at Evansville on Saturday, rallying in the second half to win 70-58. 
Trailing for most of the first half, Notre Dame pulled itself together with less than four minutes to play to go into the locker room with a 32-32 tie. Better shooting after the break allowed the Irish to seize con­trol of the game and seal the 
win. 
!lead Coach Muffet McGraw blamed the poor performance at the beginning of the game on a lack of concentration that re­sulted in a dismal 35% shooting percentage. 
"We shot poorly, basically from a lack of intensity," com­mented McGraw, whose team upped its record to 14-6 and remains undefeated in the MCC conference, "We missed easy shots." 
McGraw credited guard Karen Robinson with sparking a 10-2 surge at the end of the first half to keep the Irish in the game. During the run, Robinson sunk two baskets and sunk six shots from the free throw line. The junior finished the contest with a team-leading 18 points and was a perfect 10­for-1 0 from the charity stripe. 
"Karen basically took over the game at that point," said McGraw, "by scoring ten and making some great defensive plays." 
McGraw was not thrilled with Notre Dame's defensive effort, although the 58 points the Irish allowed the 6-12 Purple Aces is under their season average of 61. 
"They got 12 offensive re­bounds which is too many to give up," remarked McGraw. 
The Irish coach cited the strong play from Robinson, as well as good offensive showings from Margaret Nowlin and Sara Liebscher as keying the Notre Dame victory. Nowlin finished with 16 points, while Liebscher tossed in 13. The en­tire Irish squad jumped in to help the rebounding effort, with Krissi Davis and Lisa Kuhns 
each while Robinson, Nowlin and 
Liebscher all grabbed five. 
McGraw 11dmitted that her players, who are in the midst of seven games in twelve days, may be tiring mentally. The Irish have faced the most chal­lenging part of their schedule in the last two weeks and realize they must dominate the rest of . their games if they are going to be invited to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"The girls really got them­selves back into the game at the end of the first half," said McGraw. "Evansville didn't do anything that surprised us, we just had to take control of the game." 
Notre Dame shot 59.3% in the second half while slowly but surely building their lead. Robinson continued where she had left off, sinking the first two baskets of the period and putting the Irish ahead to stay. 
Notre Dame will finally get to relax after Tuesday's game at Loyola. The Irish will travel to Chicago for a tough match-up with the Lady Ramblers before receiving a much-needed week's rest. They will resume action the following Tuesday when they face Butler. 
page 21 

'C···/L. A.
J ..·.·•···· ;.·.... ,
33 . 
AP Photo 

Kareem Abdui-Jabbar and Bill Walton were the centers of attention as they dwarfed former coach John Wooden in a ceremony retiring the jerseys they once wore at UCLA. 
Meyo 
continued from page 24 
4:01.68, and Eddie Slowikowski from Loyola of Chicago placed third at 4:01.80. 
Overall, the Meyo Invitational, aside from being a chance for track and field teams from across the country to compete at an excellent facility, was a meet with tremendous parity and excitement. As Notre Dame coach Joe Piane stated, "Nobody comes away from this looking phenomenal. This meet was a very balanced affair." 
Where the Irish are con­cerned, the season is indeed on track. Notre Dame has a legit­imate chance to qualify several individuals for the NCAA cham­pionship in numerous events, both track and field. As coach Piane observed, "We had a good performance as a team today, but we can always do better." 
.. 

Near Notre Dame and Memorial Hospital Charming, Historical, Built in Greek Revival Style. 3 bedrooms, 2 baths with many extras. Mid 40's. Call Harold Zeltwanger: 291-9338 or ERA Bower Homes: 289-7911 
FREE 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9 AT THE JACC I.Buy 4* ~sion~t the-;gula7lI price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I
$1.00 ADMISSION/DONATION AT THE DOOR 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 L..9et 6 FREE ~ET THE_!JEA~
ENTERGATE2 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAlA HOURS: NEXT TO VENTURE Daily 9-6 SPONSOREDBYNVA GRAPE RD.. MISHAWAKA Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 
PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 

The Observer Monday, February 5, 1990
page 22 

Notre Dame hockey splits in doubleheader vs. Air Force 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
Friday night may have been a season low for the Irish hockey team as thfly not only lost 6-3 to Air Force, but had their win­less streak extended to four games. 
"I don't have any explana­tion," stated coach Ric Schafer." As their coach 'I'm embarrassed. I've seen them play better, I hope they're bet­ter. There are no excuses." 
The Irish bounced back on Saturday to post a 3-2 win be­fore a near capacity crowd of . 1,565. 
Friday night's contest started off as if it may belong to the Irish. 1:40 into the first period, center Curtis Janicke raced up the slot and deked Falcon goalie Mark Liebich to the ice. Janicke then slid the puck to his left winger Mike Curry whose shot at an empty net hit the right post. 
The game remained scoreless until Air Force capitalized on an Irish penalty at the 9:36 
Split 
continued from page 24 
which provnd to be the winning 
margin in a 2-1 decision. 
Both teams had argued with the officials for much of the match. Irish assistant !{icky Stewart nearly cost Notre Dame a team point because of his recurrent arguing, and llellickson didn't hesitate to vent his frustrations at the of­ficials. 
"If I'd known the officials ahead of time, I'd never have let this match go on," Hellickson said. "lie decides the match on a stall; that's just a gutless call." 
The match closed with Buckeye heavyweight Ferd Miller beating Notre Dame's Chuck Weaver S-3. Miller would have needed to pin Weaver for Ohio State to come away with a tie. 

Winning over the Buckeyes helped the Irish improve a dual­match record that has been tainted by losses to lesser op­ponents Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and Fresno State. 
"It was a good win in a num­ber of respPcts." said McCann. "We'd had such a horrible road trip in California, and Ohio State had beaten both those teams we had lost to and domi­nated them. We needed a real confidence builder." 
Notre Dame couldn't continue its newfound magic against Top 1 0 teams when it wrestled at Bloomington on Sunday. The fifth-ranked Hoosiers, one of the surprise teams nationally this season, showed their mus­cle by winning six of the 10 in­dividual matches. 
mark. Falcon forward Kurt Rohloff skated across center ice and ripped a shot from the blue line that beat Irish goalie Lance Madson to the glove side. The Falcons extended their lead to 3-0 by period end. 
Notre Dame needed the first goal of the second period to get back in the game, but instead Air Force got it at the 2:00 mark. Meanwhile, the Irish con­tinued to have problems, espe­cially in getting the puck out of their own end. 
"We could hardly make a pass," commented Schafer, "You have to complete a couple passes before you get going. I don't know if we could complete a pass standing 10 feet apart right now." 
Air Force extended its lead to 5-0 before the Irish scored at the 16:02 mark after a Falcon penalty. David Bankoske hit Tim Kuehl with a pass to the left of the net. Kuehl then threw it across to Pat Arendt who blasted home the power play goal. 


Lance Madson 
The Irish looked as if they might climb back in the game because with :37 gone in the 3rd period, Bankoske stole the puck at the Falcon blue line, hit Tim Kuehl with a pass in the left circle, and the senior flipped it by Liebnich. 
But the Irish comeback at­tempt was snuffed out a few minutes later. At the 2:45 mark, Bankoske stole the puck at his own blue line and ap­peared to have a breakaway, but he was hooked from behind with no call 30 seconds later, 

The Notre Dame wrestling team beat 1oth-ranked Ohio State by a score of 18-15, but couldn't pull the upset against 5th-ranked Indiana 
this past weekend. 
Irish winners Sunday included Hadenbaugh at 118, Gowens at 126 and Gerardi at 167. Boyd, a defending All-American who entered the Indiana match with a 24-3 record. was tied 1-1 in the 142-pound match. 
Notre Dame next faces Purdue 7:30 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce ACC. The duel with the Boilermakers opens a three-match home stand that also includes meetings with Ohio and Iowa. 

Air Force put the game away with another goal to make it 6­
2. Mike Curry scored the final ND goal of the evening. 
"We're in a blue funk right now," said Schafer,"AII areas of the game are lacking at the moment." 
Saturday the Irish turned it around and withstood a late Air Force charge to come away with a thrilling 3-2 win. 
"There were two things we needed to do tonight," ex­plained Schafer after the game, "One, we needed to play well. and two, we needed a victory." 
The Irish did both. Air Force held a 1-0 lead after one period, but it was clear by their physi­cal play that Notre Dame was a different team in this game. The game remained that way for most of the period as 
Madson  and  Liebnich  traded  
outstanding saves.  
Madson  stopped  Mark  

Majewski on a break with a glove save. He later made a beautiful pad save on a shot from point-blank range. The Irish tied the score with a power play goal at the 16:12 mark. Mike Curry dug the puck out from in front, skated into the left corner and then hit Sterling Black with a great pass which the freshman Black backhanded it in. 
The Irish took the lead for good with another power play goal at 5:39 when Kevin Markovitz fed Tim Kuehl along the right boards. Kuehl then whistled a perfect pass to Banksoke at the doorstep and the sophomore knocked it in. 
ND tot\k advantage of an Air Force line change to extend the lead to 3-1. Madson retrieved the puck in the eorner and sent it ahead to Arendt. Arendt had his shot blocked, but he co­railed the rebound and gave it to wide open Sterling Black for the goal. 
The Falcons pulled their goalie with 2:08 left and got a goal with :31 IPft. The Irish then fought ofT a 5 on 3 situa­tion to preserve the win. "I would say that everybody played a little bit harder tonight," commentPd Schafer. 

Saint Mary's hoops, minus Radke, upset by Taylor U. 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team's record dropped to R-7 Saturday wlwn Taylor University upset the Belles 92­87 in overtime. 
The Belles, minus senior for­ward Julie Hadke, got off to a disappointing start and trailed 36-18 early in the game. But after a few adjustments they cut Taylor's lead to seven points by halftime when they trailed 44-37. 
"Taylor had us down bad. But we got back within seven and then continued to climb back up," said Belles coach Marvin Wood. 
The Belles came out strong in the second half. Defensive ad­justments slowed Taylor down as Saint Mary's cut the margin to three. With just five seconds left in regulation time, the se­nior guard Dawn Brohman sank one of her two three-point goals to tie the game at 77. 
But Taylor came on strong in overtime as they took the lead and sealed their victory. 
"Without Julie, we had an adjustment to make. But the girls played well and they played unselfishly," Wood said. 
The Belles shot 42 percent from the field and 7 4 percent from the line. 
Sophomore forward Catherine Hestovich led the Belles with 23 points, and dished out six assists as well. Sophomore forward Jarwt Libbing added 17 points, while Brohman contributl~d 14 points and a pair of threP-point goals. Senior center Anne Gallagher tallied 13 points. while class­mate Amy Baranko led the Belles with 14 rebounds and added nine points. 
One major disappointment for the Belles in Saturday's game was the absence of Hadke. She is out indefinitely with a possible stress fracture on her left leg. 
Without Radke, who leads the team in scoring and assists, the fate of the Belles will be uncer­tain against Tri-State University. 
"Tri-State is one of the top three teams in the state. They have a good inside game and a good perimeter game." 
The Belles play Tri-State at 
home on Tuesday night. 


s.. 
0 
-
., 
c 
0 
..D
i ·­~ 
c 

" SEE CfiROSO LIVE 10PM FRIDAY ttiGHT fiT 
CLUB TUESORV-tomorrow euening from 9:00 to 11:00 in Haggar Parlor-entertainment by Oaue and Troy 
TRIP TO CHICAGO'S HAWTHORNE RACE TRACK this Wednesday tickets for $15.00 -this includes admission, dinner, picture in Winner's Circle, harness rides, and more-anyone interested in going please contact Amy Blong at 284-5133 
REMINDER: this Wednesday and Thursday are sign-ups ''NEIGHBORING in Dining Halls 


Monday, February 5, 1990 The Observer page 23 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Monday 
ACROSS 29 Where to find a 49"1-an humerus Angel," 1938 
1 Compel 

4 p.m. "Solidarity with the Poor: Family Perspectives in tune 
6 Small whirlpool 30 Sunbather's

the New Era of Peacemaking," by Jim and .Kathy goal 53 Emulate Romeo 
and Juliet 
McGinnis, Institute of Peace and Justice, St. Louis. Room 10 Angler's action 31 Bafflin 
55 Heavenly hunter 
M " • g

105 Law School. Sponsored by Institute for International 14 "Paper oon question 
56 Mountbatten,
Peace Studies and co-sponsored by the Center for Social star e.g. 
15 Miffed 33 Broadcast

Concerns. 58 Horned vipers 
34"-she 

61 Character in 1716 Pueblo Indian 
blows!"

4:30p.m. "The Dynamics of Eigen Value Computation, " Across
17 Dickens work 38 Character in 17 64 Greek peak 

by Professor Steve Batterson, Emery University. Room 
20 Track-and-field Across 65 Grow weary 
226 Math Building. Coffee Room 201 4:00. Sponsored by 
event 66 Mrs. Helmsley 
Department of Mathematics. 42 Eliot or Loch 
21 Abound 67 Whirl 
43 Likely 

68 Robert Burns, 22 Bandleader e.g.
44Goofed 69 Cockscomb
CAMPUS Shaw 

4:30 p.m. Colloquium in Music, "Composing with the 23 Home, to a hawk 45 The Greatest, Macintosh," by Prof. Paul Johnson, Department of Music. 25 Lemur and 46 Marsh Room 124 Crowley Hall. Sponsored by Department of wombat, e.g. DOWN
48 Student org. of Music. 27 Hockey's Bobby the 60's 1 Froth 2 Fairy-tale 
6:30 p.m. Workshop, "Shyness: What it is, its effects, opener and how to cope, " by Eileen Biagi and Bryan Shea, 3 Practices 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

4Aia­
University Counseling Center. Foster Room, 3rd Floor 
5 Actor Wallach 
LaFortune. Sponsored by University Counseling Center. 
6 Respect 
7 Capitol feature 
7 p.m. Film, "Cruel Story of Youth." Annenberg 
a-personae
Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and 27 "-sesame!": 37 Beatty film 50 Originate
9-man (toady)Theatre. Admission. Ali Baba 39 Middleweight 51 Hair tint 
.:.&.:~:.Jill~~=-~ 10 Bracelet 
champ: 1941-47attachment 28 Ceremonial 
52-flush

40Theflu, in 1918
8 p.m. Guitar recital, by Jay Kaufman. Little Theatre. 11 Trunk in the garment 
54 Harness racer41 City on the

Sponsored by SMC Music Department. chest 32 Annapolis grad. 
12 Decay Truckee 57 Height: Comb. 13 Scrabble items 
33 Carney or 45"-She form -::-.::::~~~;...~ 18 Do a cook's job Garfunkel Sweet?" 59 Needles' partner 
MENUS 

~..;..+,,:,.t~~....-;:+;;~~IIIIIIIJ.=.I~.=..J.:-=+::..j.:..l 19 First murderer 46 Weasel's kin 
34 High, craggy hill 60 R.b.i., e.g. 

:+::-+;:;+:.R~±~t;l 24 Like Lowell's 47 Singer 
Notre Dame 35 Kind of crab or 62"-aboy!"
June day FitzgeraldBBQ Pork Chops clam
26 Drug dealer's 49 Kind of court or 63 What an R.N. Chicken Teriyaki nemesis 36 Mellowed scooter gives Italian Beef Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


QU17.: 
How tar aparl were Jack Jac.lr:: and Joe \ea-1e their 
aod Joe ~hen \.he-j started? homes al the same time al'\d dri~e to-..ard each o\her. lad:. <iri'les a\. Gel mph, 'flhile Joe. dri'les at 3Cl mph. The~ pas e.ac.h olher in 10 minu\.es. 


lfr WP6 ~~O'MR St>.l=t'LING 
CA'S'E. 8\JT nit.~. iO\J OCII'·(T \-\IRE f>. PRN"TE E'(E f=OR 
~Ei~~:ON~E~S~..~·~~~ 



rCiJ''ih'O'iiC'ttttttCt/U'TChtttttttttttttt;;::::;~::";:::::::tt;;:;tt;:::;:;tttt" 
~ ~ 
>>: Dr. Ellyn Stecker . Fr. James T. Burtchaell (South Bend N.O.W.) 
Ul k

~>: and (Profeasndsor of Theology)
e e 

Karl Kronenberger ~ (Democratic Socialists Mary Lee Freeman ~ of America) (ND/SMC Right to Life) Live Entertainment and Refreshments 
>, ~ >' ~@@®~® @~ &@@~~~@~ 9-11 P.M. 
>, Tuesday, February 6th 
>, 
>, 
Haggar Hall, St. Mary's College
>, Feb. 5 
>,
>, Theodore's 
>, 
>, >, 8:00 P.M. 
>, 
~<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.(<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<.<<<<.<.<.<.<<<.<.<.<.<.<<<<.<<.<<.<<.<.<<.<.<<<<.<<<.<<.<.<<.<.< 
. ..., 

-
: . 


Sports
Page 24 

Blue Devils turn up heat, burn Irish Notre Dame's road woes continue at Duke 
The Observer/Photo by John Cluver The Noue Dame men·s tennis team defeated the 24th-ranKed West Virginia Mountaineers on Sunday. (Story on page 19). 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
Durham. N.C.-The shooting 
of the Notre Dame men's bas­
ketball team cooled off in what 
was otherwise a heated battle 
against Duke Sunday. The fifth­
ranked Blue Devils beat the 
Irish 88-76 in the first in a 
string of tough road games for 
Notre Dame. 
"I didn't like the way we shot the ball early in the first half," Irish head coach Digger Phelps understated. "You can't shoot 4-for-21 on the road with these people and expect to be in the hunt. That was what put us in a holn at halftime." 
The Irish shot a miserable 11-of-37 in the first half. just undnr :w pPrcnnt. Duke wasn't a whole lot better, hitting 13­of-29 for 45 percent, but the Blue Devils hit 15-of-18 free throws in establishing a 42-31 halftime lead. Alaa Abdelnaby was 8-of-8 from the gift line in the first half. 
Abdnlnaby also eontributed defensively. helping to shut down Notre Dame's normally potent insid!' attack. Team scoring Jpader LaPhonso Ellis managed 12 first-half points and 11 rebounds, but could have had more as his shots, even jam attempts, weren't 

Wrestlers split with Top Ten foes
-
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
II' a tPattt PVPr rould lw satis­l'il'd with going ,;!00, this was tlw tinw. 
l;acPd with lllPPting two Top I 0 tPams in thrPn days, tlw NotrP DamP wrPstling tParn

'· 
t·amP away with an IH-1 :J win owr Ohio StatP on J;riday and a 2:J-14 loss to Indiana on Sunday. Tlw virtory against tlw 
I Oth-rankPd BuckPyl's was thl' lirst-Pwr Irish triumph wrsus a Top 10 tPam. 
"I hotH•stly fPit WP could bPat tht•rn," said Irish roach !;ran McCann. "I think wn'n~ improv­ing nwntally. and winning a big match has to givn you confi­dPnen." 
The w1wknnd split hd't Notre Dame with a 5-6 record on the year. 
Ohio State fell to 16-3 after Friday night's loss at the Joyce ACC. 
falling. He fouled out halfway 
through the second half. 
"We didn't shoot well," Ellis said. "But they weren't bad shots. They just rolled out. I don't know why, but we just had an off day. They were rolling out, not banking or any­thing. We weren't throwing bricks. Nothing was going in." 
The heat inside Duke's tiny Cameron Indoor Stadium was apparent from the start of the game. 
"Both teams had to use a lot of people," Duke coach Mike Krzvzewski said. "In our case, I 
thought our bench did a good job. We stayed fresh through 
the whole ball game." 
Prior to the Duke game, Notre Dame had beaten up on three straight opponents at home, averaging 93 points and shooting 52 percent from the floor. However, the road has not been good for the Irish all season, and it doesn't get any easier. This weekend they travel to Texas to face SMU and Houston, and trips to face Syracuse and DePaul loom in the distance. 
"Every game is important to us now, but we've got to hang in on the road," Ellis said. "Wp play Georgia Tech and Missouri at home, but we've got thesP road games first in our minds." 

"This was bv far our worst pt•rfornHliH'P,..· said Buckl'yPs f'flitrh Buss lltdlickson. "Tiw thing that upsnts nw is that wp'rp hnttPr than Notrn DamP. Tfwy ranw and wrnstlnd us tough. no q unstion about it." 
Against Ohio Statn, the Irish rallind aftl'r nationally-ranknd Mark Maritwlli pinnl'd Notrn DamP's .lamPs Posny in the 126­pound match. 
That pin. which followed a 4­3 win by Irish 118-pound!~r Andy lladnnbaugh and an 1 1-6 loss by Irish 126-poundPr Marcus Gow1•ns, ll'ft Notrn Damn lwhind 9<1. 
Tlw Irish rnspondnd with wins in tlw nnxt four weight dasses. Pat Boyd won the 142­pound match 2-1 over Mike Di Sabato, Todd Layton beat Nick Lieb 8-2 at 150, Todd Tomazic 
· topped Mike Schyck 9-6 at 158 and Mark Gerardi whipped Paul Reinbolt 9-2 at 167. After that string of wins, Notre Dame held a 15-9 team lead. 

"We knew we had to have those three -150, 158 and 167," said McCann. "It's hard when you give up those bonus points on a fall, you have to make them up and can't lose any of the matches you're sup­posed to win." 
Ohio State's Dan Ritchie beat Curt Engler of Notre Dame 11­5 in the 177-pound match, making the team score 15-12. The next match provided the controversy for the evening. 
A pair of freshmen, Steve King for Notre Dame and Heath Eddleblute of Ohio State, locked up in the •190-pound match, and neither wrestler could gain any kind of advan­tage. W'ith the score tied 1-1 and just five seconds left in the match, the official made a sec­ond stalling call on Eddleblute that awarded King a point, 
see SPLIT I page 22 
"When I look at who we're playing and how we're playing on the road," Phelps said, ''I'd say we are playing better than we played at LSU. We've still got 10 games left against some pretty good basketball teams. We just have to play and im­prove like we did last week when we were at home. The biggest thing for us is the road challenge." 
Despite the poor shooting, the Irish didn't let Duke run away with the game. Midway through the first half, Duke's fast break got into gear thanks to the efforts of Abdelnaby and point guard Bobby Hurley. In two minutes, the Blue Devils built the lead from 17-11 to 26­11 with 9:45 to play before the break. 
Then the Irish got back into the contest, and despite som.e missed opportunities, closed to within seven when Tim Singleton scored on a goaltend­ing call, 23-30 with 4:50 to go. The Irish continued to miss more than they hit, closing the half down by nine, 42-31. 
"I liked the way we got (the lead) under ten in thn first half," l'hnlps said. "wp had a chance to get it down to six, 
see DUKE I page 16 
Meyo Invitational showcases top athletes 
The Observer/Photo by Steve Moskop. 
LaPhonso Ellis, shown here skying for a dunk against Dayton, led Notre Dame with 15 points and 13 boards Sunday against Duke, but fouled out midway through the second half. 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's indoor track and field team, led by seniors Yan Searcy, Mike O'Connor, Glenn Watson, and juniors Ryan Cahill and John Cole, played generous host to the 3rd annual Meyo Invitational track and field competition this past weekend at the Meyo Track in the Loftus Sports Complex. 
The meet, which was attended by over twenty teams from across the United States, in­cluding Arizona, Bowling Green, Loras, Navy, Purdue, the Reebok Track Club, and the Sallie Mae Track Club, provided an excellent opportunity for all athletes involved to qualify for the NCAA championships be­cause of the unique facilities at the Meyo Track. 
For the average sports fan who may not get out to track 
meets very often, the Meyo Invitational was a chance to witness amateur track at its best. As Irish head coach .Joe Piane aptly noted, "For the spectator, this was just one heck of a track meet." 
Yan Searcy electrified the crowd, perched high in the spectator gallery, with his blis­tering victory in the 500 meter run, timed at 1:02.95. Also rep­resenting the Irish in the 500 meter run were Scott Vandenberg and Pat Devanny. 
Senior Mike O'Connor also brought the crowd to its feet with his performance of 
8:09.49 in the 3000 meter run, which earned him a fifth place finish. Meanwhile, senior hur­dler Glenn Watson flew to a sixth-place finish in the final of the 55 meter high hurdles, recording a time of 7.64 sec­onds. · 
Notre Dame's .Jim Varga, a senior, took second place in the consolation final of the 55 me-

The Observer/Photo by Steve Moskop 

Junior guard Karen Robinson scored 18 points to lead a weary Notre Dame women's baSketball team to a 70-58 victory over Evansville on Saturday. (Story on page 21 ). 
ter high hurdles with a time of 
7.63 seeonds. And Irish sprinter Busty Setzer eapturPd first pla.ee in the consolation fi­nal of the 55 nwter dash. with a time of 6.39 seconds. 
Junior Hyan Cahill finislwd second in the mile run with a time of 4:09.75. while fellow ju­nior John Cole made a jump of seven feet in thn high jump, one inch short of qualifying for the NCAA indoor championships. 
Yet thn highlight of the day was the Meyn Mile, a speetaeu­lar race whieh saw three indi­viduals qualify for thn NCAA championship meet, as th1~y surpassed the required NCAA qualifying tinw of 4:02.00. .John Trautmann of the Sallie Mae Track Club successfully re­peated as champion of the Meyo Mile, riding the emotion of the crowd to a timt~ of 
4:00.78. .John Nutall of Iowa State finished second at 
see MEVO I page 21 







