I . ·' (_ .­
I' 

----~ c• 
o::::/15/91 z1 
t ) . -· 
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 
HESBURGH liBRARY NOTRE DAME 
IN
FRIDAY OCTOBER 5, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's College awarded 
$250,000 grant by foundation 
By  CORINNE  PAVLIS  
Saint Mary's Editor  
Saint  Mary's  College  has  been  

awarded a $250,000 challenge grant from the Knight Foundation of Akron, Ohio, to implement a comprehensive project aimed at attracting, cultivating and retaining highly qualified faculty. 
Saint Mary's was one of only twenty­five private liberal arts institutions invited by the Knight Foundation's "Excellence in Undergraduate Educa­tion" program to submit project pro­posals, and one of just ten colleges awarded funding. 
The project, entitled "Faculty for the Next Century: The Conditions for Quality," will establish mentor pro­grams at key stages in the faculty ca­reer path, beginning with an extensive student research program designed to promote interest in academic careers. Encouraging faculty leadership within the college community is a main focus of the grant. 
Implementation of the six compo­nent program will span the next three years. Each of the six interactive ele­ments resulted from three years of in­tensive research by Saint Mary's fac­ulty and administrators. The actual proposal was prepared by Associate Dean of f-aculty Patrick White. The creation of the Student Independent Study and Research Program (SISTAR), the first component of the program, involves offering students opportunities for scholarly interaction with faculty. SISTAR will provide stipends to students who will work as junior colleagues with individual fac­ulty members. 
The teams will be conducting sum­mer research projects. Similar stu­dent-faculty research programs cur­rently exist in the scientific disciplines. The SISTAR program will include stu­dents from all academic areas and will encourage a more symbiotic relation­ship between student and teacher. This opportunity, usually not awarded until graduate school, will be extended to four Saint Mary's students each academic year. The College hopes to motivate students toward careers in teaching and research. 
"The student research component 
is a real key to the project," said 
White, the program's creator. 
"Younger individuals interested in 
academic careers often have the mis­
conception that their goals can only be 
achieved through teaching in a univer­
sity setting." 
White hopes to provide opportuni­
ties which will create a "grow our 
own" type of initiative for students. 
With such initiative White hopes to 
foster circumstances which will "allow 
our students to see that professional 
academic aspirations can be realized 
within the framework of a small lib­
eral arts college." 
Novice-Mentor partnerships, the 
second part of the proposal, will in­
volve pairing new faculty with more 
experienced members. New faculty 
will be paired with colleagues in a 
mentoring program designed to better 
acquaint younger faculty with the 
traditions and missions of the College. 
The College hopes that senior faculty 
will help the new members adjust to 
the demands of full-time teaching in a 
student-centered environment such as 
Saint Mary's. Decreased teaching 
loads for new faculty during their first 
year is another aspect of the plan. 
Saint Mary's intends to use this pro­
gram to prepare faculty as future 
leaders within the college community. 
Programs for tenured faculty, aca­
demic chairs and visiting scholars 
make up the three other dimensions of 
the proposal. 
see Grant I page 8 

To the polls 
L"vol, 2-3] 
465Ei6 NO. 30 
AP Photo 
Indiana State Election agent Kathy Kieffer, right, holds the ballot box while voters wait in line and cast their ballots for the union of their choice in the lobby of the Indiana State Office Building in Indianapolis Thursday. State employees were eli­gible to vote to decide whether, AFSCME or the Unity Team, will represent them. 
Man attack~ SMC student 
Special to the Observer 

A Saint Mary's student was accosted 
on Saint Mary's road Thursday night. 
The attacker approached her from the rear and forced her into an area south of the bushes along the road. Although the suspect told the victim he had a gun and a knife, she didn't see either weapon. 
A sharp. pointed stick was held to her throat, however. 
The suspect told her, "The cops are after me." He pinned her to the ground and tried to take her behind the Fatima Retreat Center. 
Captain Joseph Araman heard a muffled scream while patrolling Saint Mary's Road. He got out of his car after observing a jacket lying on the roadside. The suspect released the victim, who ran to the officer from the south side of the hedges and told him she was being attacked. The suspect, believed to have seen the headlights, fled across U.S. 33 on foot, traveling southwest. 
The suspect was described as a 6'2" black male in his early 20s with a muscular build and short hair. His complexion was medium dark, with no facial hair. He wore a navy blue wind­breaker, black denim trousers and black tennis shoes with white stripes. 
South Bend Police Department K-9 units were called in to help locate the suspect. 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS • Stanford Weekend 1990 • 
Friday Noon-1 p.m. Culture on the Quad, food and entertain­ment. Fieldhouse Mall 3 p.m. Campus tours departing from the statue of Our Lady, Main Gate 
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, from Washington Hall, and steps of Main Building to Green Field 4:30-6 p.m. Glee club, open rehearsal, Crowley Hall, 
Room 115 7 p.m. Pep rally. Joyce ACC, Gate 3 
Saturday 
7 a.m. Band Rehearsal. Cartier Field 
8 a.m.-game time ND & SMC alumni & friends are in­vited to Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC, Gates 2 &3 
9:15 a.m. Porn Porn Squad Performance, JACC North Dome 
9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous, Centt'r for Social Concerns 10 a.m. Porn Porn Squad & Cheerleading performance, 
in front of Bookstore 10 a.m. Glee Club concert, JACC North Dome 
10:30 a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC North Dome 
10:30 a.m. Band concert. Main building steps 
11 :20 a.m. Band steps off 
12:10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Stadium After the game ND/SMC all-class reunion, JACC North Dome Gates 2 &3 After the game Open House, Center for Social 
Concerns 4 p.m. Mass, Crypt 5 p.m. Mass. Sacred Heart Church 

ND Professor discusses Vietnamese attitudes, future of Cambodia in speech 
By PETER LOFTUS  War. Because the South lost the  Vietnam's economy has helped  
Assistant News Editor  Civil War, some Southerners  small businesses, but its great­ 
today are more bitter about the  est impact has been on  
Now that the war with the  war than the North, he said.  Vietnamese agriculture.  
United States is fifteen years  The twist on this comparison  Miscamble said that approxi­ 
behind them, the Vietnamese  is that Vietnam suffered far  mately 90 percent of  
appear eager to establish nor­ more devastation than the  Vietnamese rice crops come  
mal relationships with the  United States, who Miscamble  from private farms or coopera­ 
United States, according to a  characterized as the "loser" in  tives.  
Notre Dame professor who re­ the Vietnam conflict.  Education and health care  
cently visited Indochina.  Vietnamese are disappointed  have experienced some degree  
Father Wilson Miscamble, as­ that the United States has  of privatization, according to  
sistant professor of history,  maintained their economic em­ Miscamble. Teachers and doc­ 
and some colleagues visited  bargo of Vietnam, despite the  tors often "moonlight." In  
Vietnam and Kampuchea  fact that the Vietnamese pulled  Hanoi, many people attended  
(Cambodia) last January and  their troops out of Cambodia  private evening schools, taught  
were able to learn about  two years ago, a move that  by moonlighters who worked  
Vietnamese attitudes on every­ many thought would ensure the  for the state during the day.  
thing from their economy to  lifting of the embargo.  In spite of all the recent reno­ 
relations with the United  Vietnam's economy would  vations, Vietnam "still con­ 
States.  improve enormously if the the  fronts enormous problems,"  
The Vietnamese are willing to  embargo was lifted, said  said Miscamble.  
forget about the war, and  Miscamble. Presently, many  The population has increased  
would like to "normalize" their  Vietnamese are preoccupied  at a rapid rate, and is presently  
relationship with the United  with the renovation of their  at around 60 million, he said.  
States, said Miscamble.  economy.  Unemployment is high, and the  
"The Vietnamese gave a fa­ "Economics are on the mind  impending reduction of the  
vorable reception to  of everyone in Vietnam," said  large Vietnamese army will not  
Americans," said Miscamble,  Miscamble.  help matters.  
referring to his contact with  Vietnam's economy has expe­ Communications, the water  
the Vietnamese. "They're not  rienced some degree of renova­ system and transportation are  
possessed by the (Vietnam con­ tion in recent years, he said. It  in bad shape, said Miscamble. A  
flict) as much as the United  has moved away from a cen­ major problem is the large, in­ 
States."  trally-planned economy and  competent ruling bureaucracy.  
He explained this by compar­ more towards a free-market  Financial support from  
ing the United States to the  system.  
South in the American Civil  The privatization of  see VIetnam I page 4  

.... 

Friday, October 5, 1990 

Good health starts with good nutrition. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Tree's return stirs thoughts of bands 

Stanford is back in town, and that can only mean one thing: the Tree. 
Stanford probably has one of the best mascots in college football. The Tree 


was the star of Stan-Robyn Simmons ford's halftime show . 
two years ago, and Asst. Accent Ed1tor the band with its laid-back attitude and uniforms make it my favorite visiting band. 
The coming of the Tree got me to thinking about other memorable visiting bands (our own band will always be near and dear to my heart.) If there ever was a battle of the collegiate bands, these would be the likely winners: 
BIGGEST BAND: It's got to be Purdue. Their band covers the entire playing field and the first three rows of the stadium. Plus, the added features make the Boiler­makers worthy of this title: the World's Largest Drum, the battalion of baton twirlers, the silver twins (one of whom kept dropping her baton at the last home game) and the Golden Girl. 
MOST OBNOXIOUS BAND: USC. They play that stupid fight song after every damn play. My freshman year the band got so ob­noxious that an entire section of Irish fans shouted in unison, "Will the USC band please SHUT UP!" The band members must hear that song in their dreams after playing it so many times. 
BAND MOST LIKELY NEVER TO PLAY 

HERE AGAIN: Do any of the seniors re­
member the Boston College game? Okay, we 
were losing at the half and we were a little 
bit frustrated about it. 
The BC Band did a salute to the Big Chill 

music for the halftime show. The band was 
dressed in garbage bags (I think they were 
trying to look like the dancing CalifOJ:Dia 
Raisins) and female soloist performed "You 
Make Me Feel Like a Natural Woman." Was 
she any good? 
We'll never know. She only managed to 

sing the first line of the song before the 
student section began booing her for no ap­
parent reason except that we were losing 
the game (which we ended up winning.) It 
wasn't exactly what you would call a Notre 
Dame moment. 
BEST BAND TO SING ALONG WITH: 
Michigan. Every time they play "Hail to the 
Victors" it gives their opponents a chance to 
sing their fight song with the revised lyrics, 
which are unfit for publishing in a family 
newspaper such as The Observer. 
BAND MOST LIKELY TO NEED POLICE 
PROTECTION: Miami. Need I say more? I 
certainly hope that our students won't be 
too cruel to the Miami band. Sports Illus­
trated would just love to run a feature story 
about how the irate Irish fans attacked 
those poor defenseless members of the Mi­
ami marching band. 
So when you see the Tree on the field Sat­
urday, be sure to give him a warm Fighting 
Irish welcome. After all, he's already 
dressed up in green. 

c-Ihe-Obset:Ver~ 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

(219)·239-7471  
Thursday's  Staff  
Production  Accent  News  
Lisa Eaton Cristina Ortiz Jeanne Blasi  Brian Grunert Fran Moyer Robyn Simmons  Carrie Amann Frank D. Rivera L. Peter Yob  

Sports Scoreboard Frank Pastor Rolando de Aguiar 
Systems  Circulation  VIewpoint  
Cesar Capella  Bill O"Rourke  Denisse Marion-Landais  
Paul Froning  Man Novak  Becky Pichler  

The Observer 
WEATHER Lines show high temperatures. 

FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
CAMPUS 
Nedra Dwyer has been elected president of the Freshmen class at Saint Mary's. The ticket of Dwyer and Jill Dunleavy defeated Tracy McDonald and Elizabeth Petrovic in the second run-off vote for the presidency and vice presi­dency. 



~'' ,, ,,,, 
~,:.~
Give to the United Way. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume in shares 
145.41 Million 

ft 0.53 
~ 1.29 Dow Jones Industrials 
2,516.83 ~ 27.47 Precious Metals Gold +$1.00 to $392.90/oz. 
Silver f-2.2¢ to $4.668/oz. 
Pressure 
fiC'X1

®© ~~~ ~ 
~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctated Press GraphtCSNet 
OF INTEREST 
The NO vs. Stanford pep rally will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Students and faculty wishing to demonstrate against the dedication of the new ROTC building meet Friday, Oct. 5, at 5 p.m. at Sacred Heart Church and Saturday, Oct. 6, at 9 a.m. at the Pasquerilla Center. 
The Shenanigans will be performing Saturday at 10:30 a.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold an open house Saturday, Oct. 6, following the ND vs. Stanford football game. 
President F.W. de Klerk was cheered Thursday when he made an unannounced visit to black townships in Natal Province that have been wracked for years by factional fighting. He praised local leaders of the warring factions for negotiating a Shongweni township truce that halted the fighting, which has claimed 5,000 
lives in Natal in five years. Such a trip would have been unthinkable a year ago, before de Klerk pushed for an end to apartheid and freed African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela from prison. The white-led gov­er_nri_Ient. and the AN_C have held peace talks since May on ehmmatmg apartheid. The black faction fighting spread to Johannesburg area townships in August, killing about 800 people. 
NATIONAL 
The $500-billion deficit-reduction plan cleared its first congressional hurdle Thursday night as the House moved toward a late-night showdown over elec­tion-year tax boosts and spending cuts. Following a week of intense arm-twisting by President Bush and congres­sional leaders of both parties, the House voted 339-94 to approve conditions for debate. 
WoRLD 


NYSE Index 171.33 
S&P Composite 312.69 
The Multicultural Fall Festival's Taste of Nations will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Saturday, Oct. 6, at Stepan Center. 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA), formerly the Environmental Action Club, will meet Oct. 14 at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Business juniors and seniors interested in serving on the CBA College Council should forward a letter of application and brief resume to Sam Gaglio, assistant to the dean, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center. t\pplications must be received no later than Oct. 19. 
Deputies in Slovenia on Thursday proposed a plebiscite on independence from Yugoslavia after declar­ing many federal laws incompatible with the republic's newly drawn constitution. In the neighboring republic of Croatia, deputies voted down a proposal to follow Slovenia's lead and declare independence. Debate also raged over ethnic tensions between Croats and Serbs. One irate deputy hurled his briefcase at an opponent. In the Parliament of Sl(lvenia, the <;mallest of Yugoslavia's six republics, legislators ruled that 30 federal laws touching on the economy, politics and defense were incompatible with the Slovenian constitution as it was amended last 
week. 
The Bush administration is withdrawing the nomination of Frederick Vreeland to be ambassador to Burma, a Republican senator who raised questions about the nomination said Thursday. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York said State Department officials told him that ~reeland's name had been withdrawn because of objec­tions from Burma about statements Vreeland made. 
Yesterday's high: 68 Yesterday's low: 50 Nation's high:1 06 (Shafter, Calif.) Nation's low:19 (Wisdom, Mont.) Forecast: Mostly sunny and warmer Friday. Highs in the mid­dle 70s. Fair and warmer Friday night. Lows from the middle to upper 50s. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday. Highs from the lower to middle 80s. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction ng hts are reserved. 

Friday, October 5, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Candlelight vigil held to promote peace in Mid-East 

By SCOTT KEEGEL 
News Writer 
A candlelight vigil for peace held near the Old Fieldhouse Mall last night was "inspired primarily by the current situa­tion in the Middle East,» said Father Newton of Campus Ministry, "and this week was thought to be an appropriate time.» 
This week marks the feast of Saint Francis of Assisi, who is often regarded as the patron saint of peace. 
After reciting the Prayer of Saint Francis at the War Memorial, each person in the crowd of about 150 lit a candle, which was carried in proces­sion to the Grotto. Many sang such hymns as "Amazing Grace» and "Let There Be Peace on Earth» as they walked. There the group sang and prayed en masse, and moments of silence were observed for personal reflection. 
Michael Affleck, assistant professional specialist at the center for Social Concerns pointed out that the vigil served "to remind us of our responsi­bility as Christians to promote peace. The vigil is a public ac­tivity for peace; not one in protest. but rather in prayer." 
When asked if the vigil could be made an annual event, Father Newton commented that "it has been considered, but it will depend upon the overall re­sponse it receives." 
The event was well attended and many people indicated their belief that the vigil is well worth repeating each year. Yesterday Robert Pasin, student body president, urged people to attend, noting that, "our prayers for peace are needed now more than ever.» 
ND to stop paying for "U" paper 
By BETSY PUNSALAN 
News Writer 
The "U" college paper sup­plement will no longer be dis­tributed with the Observer, ac­cording to Student Body President Rob Pasin. 
"When Fred and I were con­sidering renewing the subscrip­tion, we asked ourselves: 'Do students really read these?' Last week, we saw [the 'U'] all over the floor of the dining hall," Pasin said. 
The subscription costs $15,000 a year and is paid for by the student activity fee. 
A second reason for stopping distribution of the "U" on cam­pus is because of complaints received concerning the adver­tisements for condoms in the classified section. 
"Since the money used to pay for the 'U' comes out of the student activities fee and some people complained [about the condom ads], we looked into having the ads removed," Pasin said. 
This practice would follow last year's request from Student Government to "U» publishers that Notre Dame re­ceive "U" papers without any alcohol advertisements. 
The publishers had agreed to provide Notre Dame with "U" editions free of condom ads. However, last week's edition did contain the offensive ads. 
"The overwhelming reason for discontinuing the 'U' is that students don't read it,» Pasin said. "The secondary reason is that the 'U' broke the contract we had with them regarding the condom ads.» 
Joe Cassidy. director of 

Student Activities, received the 
initial complaints about the of­
fensive ads. 
"I think it's one of those ethi­

cal, student responsibility deci­
sions,» said Cassidy, "Student 
leaders have to decide on how 
they want to project the 
University." 
Alison Cocks, editor-in-chief of The Observer, regrets that 
the "U" will no longer be dis­
tributed. 
"I think that the 'U' was an 

excellent way of keeping up 
with what's going on on other 
college campuses. I think it's 
unfortunate that more people 
didn't appreciate the opportu­
nity." 

Friday, October 5, 1990
page 4 The Observer 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, OCT. 1 
8:05 a.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of his decal from his au­tomobile parked near South Dining Hall. 
1:45 p.m. A faculty member reported the theft of his bicycle from the bike rack in front of Nieuwland Science Hall. 
2:10 p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of a smoke alarm from the LaFortune first floor hallway. 
2:13 p.m. A University employee re· ported the theft of a clock and chair from the laundry room at the Rockne Memorial. 
5:58 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported a suspicious person, dressed in a blue jogging suit and asking directions to Walsh Hall, on the second floor landing of Knott Hall. 
6:25 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident re­ported the theft of his bookbag and sweatshirt from outside Gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
11 :20 p.m. A LeMans Hall resident re­ported the theft of her bicycle from the west side of the Hesburgh Library. 
TUESDAY, OCT. 2 
12:21 a.m. A Howard Hall resident re­ported the theft of her bicycle from out­side Howard Hall. 
10:56 a.m. A Walsh Hall resident re­ported receiving several anonymous phone calls over the past two weeks. 
11 :45 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle from the bike rack in front of Morrissey Hall. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 3 
8:15 a.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of several items from his dorm room, including compact discs, cash, a class ring and a camera. 
The Observer 
Vietnam 
continued from page 1 

Eastern European countries has decreased, said Miscamble. In addition, Vietnam can no longer rely on cheap goods from the Soviet Union. The ~erican embargo is seen by VIetnamese as a "big barrier" to economic progress. 
The Vietnamese, however, are aware of their situation, and are contemplating ways to im­prove it. 
"There is an enormous inter­est in Vietnam in the operation of a market economv." said Miscamble, who said that he is not a "big fan" of market economies. 
There is hope for the Vietnam economy. he said. There are sizable amounts of off-shore oil, as well as other raw mate­rials, in Vietnam. And the Vietnamese are hard-working, talented laborers. 
Miscamble spoke of the dif­ferences between Hanoi, a northern city, and Ho Chi Minh City(formerly Saigon), a south­ern city. 
In Hanoi, which "withstood incredible bombardment" dur­ing the Vietnam War, there is little military presence, and lit­tle evidence of human injuries resulting from the war, accord­ing to Miscamble. 
There is an active market in Hanoi, with a decent availability of food, said Miscamble. With little direct begging, there seems to be a "Puritan ethic" in the air. 
Ho Chi Minh City, which, ac­cording to Miscamble, is still 
"Moneymaking is in the air in Saigon," said Miscamble, which accounts for the larger mar­kets. Saigon is more modern than Hanoi, which is a reflec­tion of the American presence in the southern city. One can find "all kinds of consumer goods in Saigon." 
While one finds a "Puritan ethic" in Hanoi, one can find "Asian rock"-noise pollution, as far as Miscamble is con­cerned-and action-packed Hong Kong movies in Saigon. 
On the down side, there is a "greater disparity of wealth" and more begging in Saigon than in Hanoi, according to Miscamble. 
Miscamble also visited Kampuchea, which he refers to as Cambodia, and was struck by the horror of former ruler Pol Pot, whose regime was re­sponsible for the Cambodian genocide in the 1970s. The pre­sent government is partly re­sponsible for making people aware of the evils of Pol Pot, according to Miscamble. He said that terror still exists in Cambodia. 
"The national nightmare re­ally hasn't ended," said Miscamble, referring to the Khmer Rouge, a militant politi­cal movement that still brings violence to the country along with two other opposition movements. Miscamble said that a friend who was a doctor in a Cambodian village had to perform amputations on 20 vic­tims of the violence of the Khmer Rouge. 
Regarding the prospect of peace in Cambodia, Miscamble 

"named them for what they peace plan for Cambodia. are." In spite of the unrest in He said there is no guarantee Cambodia, Miscamble said that 
that the Khmer Rouge will be the culture is being rebuilt. disarmed, even with the inter­Some medical schools, hospi­vention of the United Nations, tals and universities have been 
which recently proposed a constructed, he said. 
Take a TOUR of a NUCLEAR POWERED SUBMARINE Norfolk, VA San Diego, CA 

A Navy representative will be on campus Tuesday, October 9th in the Placement Office from 9am to 3pm. For more information all LT Bennett or LT Griffm: ' 1-800-553-1147 
Sophs. & Jrs. -5.3 GPA or better Seniors -5.0. GPA or better 
TECHNICAL, ENGINEERING, MATH & SCIENCE MAJORS. 
referred to as "Saigon" by most 
said that one cannot underes­

Vietnamese, is twice as large as 

There's a new day care in town ... 
timate the "continuing danger" 

Hanoi. While bicycles are
Subscribe now to The 
of the Khmer Rouge. Western 

prevalent in Hanoi, motor 
nations such as the United 

Kid,s Corner, Inc.
Observer for only $25 a 

scooters and even cars fill the 
States, which has supported the 
semester or $40 a year. 

streets of Saigon. 
Khmer Rouge, have never 
...a little corner of the world 
What A deal!! Don't let 
just for kids 
this opportunity pass you 

''Amy· Shotgun n 
by. 

*Specializing in Infants and Toddlers.
Hap 
# 21 RAZZ 
*We Take ChUdren from 6Wks. to 2Years. Immediate *Competitive Rates. *Educated Staff. O'Penings I *Open from 6:30a.m. to 6:00p.m.
• *Developmental Program.
Call Now! 
256-7311 
Conveniently located at: 
707 N. Main St. in 
1REsuMEs TYPESET AND PRINTED I 
Love, 

Mishawaka
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND 
[219]277-3355 

T 'd R k d J t 
oFFicE suPPLIEs 

WI e , a c , an , ays e r 
Ample indoor and outdoorplay areas 
~======~-=======~ 
When the Great NOTRE DAME 
American Dream GOLF SHOP 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL
isn't great enough 

Have you considered FOOTBALL WEEKEND SHOP HOURS THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
FRIDAY 6:30AM-5:00PM University of Notre Dame for college graduates 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 

SATURDAY 6:00AM UNTil ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime 
SUNDAY 6:00AM -4:00PM 
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 

SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR Call or write for information: 
JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CWTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH 
Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAMEWGOS 
(219) 239-6385 AVAILABLE ONLY AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 

Friday, October 5, 1990 
The Observer pageS 
-O'Leary defines, urges .women to embrace "authentic womanhood" 
lied to them when they said that age both a family and career.
BY ANN MARIE 
women, like men, could manage Quoting a doctrine from the
HARTMAN 
both a career and parenthood. Pope, she said that the role
News Writer 
With the opportunities that ex­model for women today should ist for today's modern woman, be the Virgin Mother, Mary. 
Magazine columnist Dale the fact still remains that the "She is the perfect example of O'Leary believes that women woman is the primary care­woman," said O'Leary. can change the world, and she taker in homes. brought these sentiments last She said that the feminist At the conclusion of O'Leary's night to a crowd of spectators movement was taken over by discussion, the floor was who came to see her speak at liberals on a quest for equality opened to questions from those Hayes-Healy Center. between men and women and in attendance. A question was 
In the spirit of the Year of their thoughts were too idealis­voiced with regard to women Women, the Student Union tic. According to O'Leary, radi­serving equally in the military Board sponsored O'Leary cal feminists "want equality of with men. When asked if she speech on the change within the result not equality of opportu­would send her daughter as 
feminist movement today. nity and they will use force." well as her son to fight for lib­
"Women are listening to fem­Radical feminists say the erty, she said that she would inists today and are dissatis: woman will only be free if she not. Her justification was that, fled," said O'Leary. "Today's can find a non-coercive family. at times, men are better suited woman is looking for authentic "The feminist revolution has for certain tasks and it is male womanhood." realized how drastic it was to instinct to want to protect the O'Leary defined "authentic take the family out of the center women and children. However, 
womanhood" as being separate of society...now they have O'Leary stressed that these dif­from the ideal that feminists decided to destroy it. Personal ferences between men and are looking for in the sense autonomy is the highest good," women do not make them that the mode in which femi­she said. unequal. nists are now operating is more O'Leary said the "authentic ideal and radical than the one womanhood" that women may O'Leary made it clear that that originated at the beginning now turn to encompasses the equality between the sexes is of the movement in the sixties. ideology of a woman as a not something that is going to 
O'Leary expressed that mother, having respect for be granted by the government women around the country men, where the family is good. or the result of a sexual revo­
have the impression that lead­With this in mind, O'Leary said lution. It is at this time that we ers in the feminist movement that it is still possible to man-turn to theology. she said. 
Chinese-American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at----$3.45 ~anquet rooms 
Dinners starting at----$5.45 

available for UJ= 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days . 

'-~to~2~00~~ Mon.• Thurs. 11:30 am. to 10 p.m. Fri .• Sat. 11:30 am. to 11 p.m. 272-7376 Sun. & Holidays 11:30a.m. to 10p.m. 
130 Dixie Ways., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 

CELEBRATE WITH GERMANY ! 
German reunification 


1U c.IMII PANCAKE HOUSE 

Rata.-t 
GO IRISH Seat Stanford! 
Healthy Gourmet Pancakes on sale through October. 

OPEN AT 6AM DAILY 

An American airman heaves a sandbag during the construction of bunker at an airbase in Saudi Arabia Wednesday. American troops are building bunkers at airbases around Saudi Arabia as a precaution against any air or missile attacks by Iraqi forces. 

Serving ND/SMC Students for 25 years 
Newspaper recycling to expand 
Special to The Observer 
University Food Services will 
begin recycling The Observer in 
the dining halls this semester 
starting with collection in the 
North Dining Hall during lunch 
hours on Monday, Oct. 8. 
Collection will also begin in the 
South Dining Hall on the same 
day. 
Cardboard recycling contain­
ers will be placed near the meal 
tray returns and near the exits 
to provide easy and convenient 
collection of the student news­
paper. The food services' news­
paper collection program will 
eventually expand to include 
LaFortune Student Center and 
the Oak Room. 
Newspaper recycling is cur­
rently available in participating 
residence halls for students. 
This recycling effort is the re­sult of a newly formed University Food Services Recycling Task Force. The task force includes Chairman Mike Davy, manager of the North Dining Hall, and involves staff from all campus food services' facilities. 
The task force was desig­nated by David Prentkowski, director of University Food Services, a member of the University Task Force on Recycling, which has been working for approximately one year to establish a comprehen­sive recycling program on cam­pus. 
University Food Services is one of the largest departments on campus and consequently generates a sizable portion of the waste stream at the univer­sity. 
This concentrated effort by food services is an attempt to begin reducing this waste and actively participate in the cur­rent campus-wide recycling program. 
The task force, which meets every week, will address such issues as recycling paper, card­board, glass and plastic mate­rials, as well as reducing the 
amount of office waste it cur­
rently produces. 
··~-~, 
...... 

Friday, October 5, 1990
The Observer 

::--··. ---7"
_-.: .<-·.,.-.: . --~<-~-~-.· ,.--<.-:..~. --~~··· ,_·_ 
~-:" .;: :": .-· .-. .~--~~~ ·· ..-. 
. ··--....._ .. 
: 
., 
; 
-~~­
\ .. -. 
I 
··. 

TEAM RECORD NEXT OPPONENT Notre Dame 3-0 Stanford Florida State 4-0 Miami Auburn 2-0-1 Louisiana Tech Tennessee 3-0-2 Florida (10/13) Michigan 2-1 Wisconsin Virginia 5-0 NC State (10/13) 
Miami  2-1  Florida State  
Oklahoma  4-0  OklahomaSt  
usc  3-1  Washington State  
Nebraska  4-0  Kansas State  



. ) 
--~-J.-· 
... 

I ~ 
NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
r--------------------------------------, Ir--------------------------------------, r--------------------------------------,
r 
I

SUNDAY EARLY You've heard of TWIN PEAKS, well 
.,. I
r DOUBLE FEATURE I I WEEK SPECIAL Domino's Pizzaoois offering OFF PEAKS. 
I If you order before -+ pm and/or after 8 pm.
I

$5.99 I I $4.99 
mu can get I medium Original Pizza with 2· toppings
L;rt 2Slll<lll L1rigmal pi::as with the topping of 'our Get I large Original pizza with your farorite and 2ser\'ings of Coke® for only 57.99.
dwkr fllr tmh S5.l)ll. \"ahd SundaYs onh·. topping for only S-+.99. Valid Tuesdays only. 
I I 
Expire; 12/31190
I I

II, 
I 
I 

VJ~~e·!t fa~~~:;';·~~~~~~on~lrv~~ ~~~~s~·;:;;,~t~~~,~~:te ~;~~Om~~a~.;r~s~~e~~~s Va~e~t /:~~~:·~P~~~~on~,!~ ~~~~s~:~n:'~~~:~~~~e~te ~r:~omaOu~a~•v;~s=~:S~s I Vahd a1 partte•patmg stores onty Not val+d WTth any other otfe• s PriCes may vary Customer pays fh;tn 520 00 Our dr.vtrs are not penahztd tm late dehveMes ______________________________________ j I sales Ia• where applicable Oeltvery ireu lmuted to ensure sale dr•v•no Our dnvers carry leSs
than S20 00 Our drwers are not penal•zed lor late del1venet. 

I thin S20 00 Our dnvers are not penalized for late del•ver.es
L--------------------------------------L--------------------------------------~ Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1snSomhBend.\l'e. 289-0033 816 
Al'e. 

Friday, October 5, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Tuel describes Peace Corps work in Paraguay 


By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 
Gregory Tuel, a 1987 gradu­ate of Notre Dame and a mem­ber of the U. S. Peace Corps, advises students interested in volunteering for the Peace Corps to "make sure they're dedicated to the basic ideals of the Peace Corps." 
He said they should "believe in the importance of helping people." 
Tuel became interested in the Peace Corps during his senior year at ND. He sent in his ap­plication in July 1987 and was interviewed three times. Six months later, he was invited to be a volunteer. 
In April 1988, he began three months of training in Paraguay. During these three months he studied Spanish, Guarani (an ancient Indian lan­guage), and the customs, tra­ditions, geography and politics of Paraguay. 
Tuel was sworn in and sent to Isla Alta, where he spent two years in the performing his ser­vice. He said of his experience in Paraguay, "It was like being born again, but not having par­ents." 
Tuel reflected on his attitude towards his relations with the people of Isla Alta, "In order to influence the people of my community, I must live with them." 
This meant living without electricity and running water. He awoke at 7:30 a.m. to do his day's work which included yardwork and house cleaning. He said, "All of my everyday jobs are part of my mission: volunteers are actually trained 
to  promote  development  by  
maintaining a model home."  
Tuel also  taught classes  at  

the local high school. "We (Peace Corps volunteers) are taught to plant ideas for progress by means of well­placed information, suggestions and provocative questions." 
Tuel also helped to form a health commission for the peo­ple of Isla Alta. The citizens of this town were not educated about proper hygiene, accord­ing to Tuel. As a result, "ninety-six percent of the popu­lation" had worms. Tuel said, "Many of the children suffered from malnutrition." 

By the summer of 1989, the health commission had im­proved the sanitation in Isla Alta by helping "ninety percent of the 110 families" build la­trines and by conducting town meetings to discuss and teach hygiene. 
Tuel said the basic goals of the Peace Corps are to help people of underdeveloped countries, introduce another viewpoint to these people and to introduce U.S. citizens to foreign lands. 
When asked whether the peo­ple of Isla Alta received him with open arms or were suspi­cious of him when he arrived in their community, he said, "Some people had a lot of re­spect for the Peace Corps. At the same time, some people were uninformed. " 
Tuel says there was a baby smuggling ring operating at the time and about twenty-five per­cent of the people thought he was a baby smuggler and an­other twenty-five percent were convinced he was an agent for the CIA. 
"After a year," said Tuel, "people still thought I was a CIA agent, but I was still re­spected." 
Tuel said he gained a lot from his two years in Isla Alta. He became fluent in another lan­guage and learned new cus­toms. "In Paraguay, volunteers talk to and listen to people in two foreign languages in order to reveal and learn from the other possible ways to live." 
"The hard work necessary ev­
ery day to keep the self healthy 
and adjust to the conditions," 
seemed to "stick out" most 
from his experience. 

He also said one can over­
come these obstacles by being 
dedicated to the "pursuit of 
helping other people." 

To Peace Corps volunteers 
and those interested in volun­
teering, he said, "Your amount 
of initiative determines suc­
cess." 

He also said, "Each experi­
ence serves as a point of refer­
ence when trying to make in­
formed decisions about the 
world." 

COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 
~~TROJAN ~WOMEN 
BY EURIPIDES 

WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS.. OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN.. OCT. 7 3:10PM WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN.. OCT. 14 3:10PM 
TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SfN CIT. WED THU & SUN AVAILABLE AT THE D.OOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE: MASTERCARDNISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
DIRECTOR 
REGINALD BAIN 
SET & LIGHTS 
KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY Bosco 

page 8 The Observer Friday, October 5, 1990
\ 
Gorman-Jacobs plays music, speaks about women 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
l ~ 
The petite, dark-haired woman strummed her guitar as she sang humorous but inspir­ing folk songs about women and their aceeptance over the years. 
Grant 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's within the faculty. At the same time, workshops will be created for academic chairs to help them better un­derstand their role as mentors of faculty groups. 
Such workshops will encour­age cooperation among differ­ent departments, address insti­tutional concerns and promote chairs' sense of leadership within their respective depart­ments and in the College as a whole. "The Knight Grant will help Saint Mary's retain the high quality faculty we now have as well as help us to attain and nurture new faculty with a commitment to Saint Mary's, a special community of learning," said White. 
Furthering the "mentor" concept, visiting scholars will be invited to the campus for 
"Women's greatest assets have always been thought to be their ability to give life. Through thousands of years. men held women down to only doing this and they were pre­vented from seriously exploring other things, like music." said Judy Gorman-Jacobs. 
Gorman-Jacobs gave a music-
four to six week periods each year to "mentor the mentors~. Visiting scholars will offer brief courses for students and fac­ultv. 
The formation of an informa­tion technology study group is the final component of the plan. Through a three-stage process of study and examination, sys­tem trials and recommenda­tions, Saint Mary's will seek to provide on-campus information systems dependent on new technology. 
"The selective nature of the program makes it one of the most prestigious honors that can be bestowed upon an inde­pendent liberal arts college," said Saint Mary's College President William Hickey. 
According to the foundation. "The award to Saint Mary's is intended to recognize the lead­ership role played by the College among liberal arts in­filled ~orkshop Thursday on the . History ~f Women a?d Mus1e, at the Center for Sonal Concerns. 
She spoke about women and music in the ancient times and songs about, against and for women. Gorman-Jaeobs went on to say that most songs in 
stitutions in the Midwest and 
nationwide.~ 
The terms of the three-year 
grant agreement require Saint 
Mary's to raise $250,000 in 
matching project funds. 
The "Excellence in Education" 
program was initiated by the 
Knight Foundation in 1989 
with approximately $2 million 

in grants awarded to eight se­
lect institutions. 
Colleges selected to partici­pate in the program are those that "are firmly committed to the liberal arts. emphasize un­dergraduate education. and feature solid academie pro-· grams of sufficient breadth to allow students a rich variety of choices." The institution must also be financially sound and "enjoy effective leadership by the president and boards. as well as support of their gradu­ates." 
history haVf~ bePn written by Gorman-Jaeobs is a junior-men, so they eannot give tht> high sehool English teaehr.r true feelings of a woman. who became a professional mu­
"There may not have been any sician. She sings at festivals. female Barhs or Beethoveens, dubs and universities, as well but women have been involved as giving various concerts in musically.~ Gorman-Jacobs Europe. said. ~They just were not al-This lecture was part of the lowed to sing in the church or series of events in part of "ThP courts as WPre men." Year of Women." 

Photo courtesy of Office of Public Information and Relations 
The tee shirt's cause 
Zhang-de Wang, left, a graduate student from Tianjin, China, holds the Notre Dame-Miami tee shirt, while his mother Xueying Wu looks on. The shirt will be sold on campus in an effort to raise money for Wang, an October 20, 1989, hit-and-run victim. The Miami game marks the one year anniversary of Wang's accident. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & RICH ALUM FROM SEATTLE STANFORD CALL 273·1364Need two Air Force stud. or
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ .............................................
NEEDS FOUR AIR FORCE G.A.'S
G.A.'s Please call Mike x4051 
Class 
I NEED 2 AF GA's & 

WILL PAY. GUS (206) 624-7990, 789-3497. COLLECT IF JIM BLUM AND JOE MASSMAN.
continued from page 15 3 STANFORD GA's $NEEDED DESPARA TEL Y $ NECESSARY. 
GOOD LUCK ON YOUR LSAT'S
CALL JOHN x4141 2 STANFORD GA s. Will buy ON SATURDAY!!' YOU TWO HOT
MONEY IS NO OBJECT or trade for 2 AIR FORCE GA. Will trade 2 Air Force GA's for 2 TICKETS TICKETS TICKETS ALUMNI RA'S SURE WOULD
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ John I Maureen 273-9165 Stanford GA's or buy them I need Navy GAs and would trade MAKE FABULOUS LAWYERS!! ??????????? outright. Air Force GAs for them or pay STUDY HARD BUT LIVE IT UP ON
I have 4 Miami Studs Need 2·4 Stanford GA's Need 4 Miami GA's X 4012
Dennis x2384 cash. SATURDAY. DO BLACK PATENT I also need two Miami student LEATHER SHOES REALLY
Trade? WILL PAY!!! tickets. LOVE. REFLECT UP? 
Treven X4503 I need 6 Standord GAs. Cristin 
You should sell me 4 MIAMI GAs I also will trade 2 Air Force GAs for GUESS
x3857 

immediately! Pete x1745 2 Stanford GAs. WHO?????????????????????? ???????????
Hey--We have two Miami student If you can help me out. call Kelley ???????????????????????????
tickets RIGHT NEXT TO EACH For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best 
at 283-4854. 

See dad OTHERII!!' What more could you offer. 284·5152 or 284-5115 ? See dad mad ask for?!!ll' Call 4354 or 4321 and See dad mad because he has no I NEED 4 A.F. TIX CALL X3758
leave best offer by Fri.. Oct. 5. I have STANFORD GA's to Sell Penn St. GA's. Lost-blue backpck 127NSH on
Please call me if you need them. I need 2. John C @1622 9126 @1 :45. physics NB. detex 
288-0597 desperately wanted. no Q's,712 ••MIAMI.. 
STANFORD & AIR FORCE PE x4354 Caroline. 

PERSONALS 1 
tl 
I Need PSU GA's need one or two PENN STATE 
..TWO STUD. TICK:• 

....TOGETHER"... Call Beth 288-0597 THE SHIRT THE SHIRT
GAs. Call monica at 283·4021. SENIORS--last day to s1gn up for 
CALL JIM WITH "BEST OFFER" THE SHIRT 
GOOD FOOD. GOOD

4 STUD. TIX/ALL HOME GAMES hiag
271-0333 Faculty Faculty Faculty 
COMPANY AND GOOD

I NEED MAKE OFFER 287-9731 Graduate Students & CONVERSATION SENIOR RAP 2 MIAMI GA'S I WILL PAY WELL ..LONG ISLAND STUDENTS.. 
Undergrad Students who want UP·RUN OVER TO THE C.S.C.
$$$$$ 
I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S Fall Break Bus CALL JEFF AT 273·1257 call Andi x4189 
Wealthy Alumni THE SHIRT can still buy them at 
Desparately Need Oct 21 AM to Ll -Oct 27 PM the SUB Secretary's desk on the 
Last chance to 10in Senior Rap Up

back to ND. Done in our usual THE Family coming and need 5 Call Tim x2015 I NEED ONE STANFORD GA FOR "spirit" for only $1 00' 1st 
Miami Tix 2nd Floor of LaFortune' 
· Run to the C.S.C. and join. Good They make great Christm"'"' Gifts company-good conversation and

Stan GA-MAFIA Connections-Sell RICH ALUM. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ come, 1st serve-act now' and can also be bought at the 
me tix or lose body parts!! --CALL COREY AT x1351 Janice 2993,Joni 1839.SMC tood' 
Stanford Pep Rally"

Call Nancy x4995 welcome'
..1am willing to SELL!!!.. (GATE 3 of ACC) 
THANK YOU . ST. JUDE

2 Miami GA's. Call Mary at GO IRISH BEAT CARDINALI Please helpll (603)889·0368 & make offer. MUST SELL 3 STUD STANFORD for sale: SEATTLE rd-trp plane tix· THE SHIRT I need Penn State tlckets­TIX! MAKE OFFER. MIKE Xt817 fall break. Save bucks. Caroline 
THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 

GA or Stud. "0 England'
x4354
NEED STANFORD G.A.'S

i model to thy 
Call Kathie X2484 Jolly What' Miam1 stud X3479 mward greatness. 
( &STUD TIX 
Righteous! Fab' Go Ducks'( Like little body CALL X1840 I'M DESPERATE' I NEED TO 
HELP I NEED A RIDE wrth a mighty heart." 
NEED 1·2 AIR FORCE GA For Sale: 1 STD tix for Stanford TRADE TWO AIR FORCE
f 
PLEASE HELP MY OUT OF 
MIAMI U. OR CINCY w.s.
#2790 TOWN RELATIVES WITH 4 PENN 1 STDTixAF STUDENT TIX FOR GA'S. 
TH. OCT 11 OR FRI. OCT 12
I STATE G.A.s Call JP, 239 5699 PLEASE HELP. I WILL BE ED X 1167I need Penn St. and M1am1 
~ 
FOREVER IN DEBT TO YOU. stud. t1x. Call Dan X1407 $3419 TICKETS: 4 STANFORD AND 5 CALL MIKE AT 1788. 
' ( MIAMI STUD. TIX. 234·2728 P.S. MOM WILL KILL ME IF I and 1 MIAMI G.A. CHRIS AT 
CO­1' ...LAXMAN"..
I HAVE 2 MIAMI GAs AND 1 STD DON'T GET THESE' 
Have 2 great AF ga's. Need 2 WANTED: One student ticket Your eyebrows come to­
TIX WANT TO TRADE FOR PENN

! They say that the way to a man's gether in the most unappeal­
Miam1 ga. Trade or Sell. Call1603. for Air Force. Call 3022 and
ST. TIX. 287-3587 heart is through his stomach? ing way, BUT. we love you 

name your price. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + 
How am I doin'? anyway-Happy Birthday"'CASH! JAMAICA! BAHAMAS! SellFOR SALE: STUb TIX STAN 
·An Interested Party -SA, VM. KM
Need two t1ckets to ND vs. USC AF MIAMI ETC. JON 1619 Two Chicks Need Your Tix: trips on your campus and earn free game, student or GA's. Call Betsy 2 Stanford Stud trip for you plus bonus cash 1 Call at x3899. 
TO THE GUAMANIAN DANCING5 Air Force Stud. 

FOUR SEASONS 1·800·331-Hey 14ers' BEAR: HAPPY 21ST B-DAY'
I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR MY 6 Please call Jen and Kristin 
3136! It's the day after St. Francis's (IT'S ABOUT TIME II)AND 8 YEAR OLD COUSINS! 
X4827 Feast Day: can you remember the LOVE, DAWN I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S !!!I!!! 

PLEASE CALL SANDY X4121' 12 words? Call1500 and give it$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STANFORD TIX: need 1 student; 

FOR SALE your best shot..EricGrandfather and little brother 
DESPERATLEY NEEDED call Bill x3300 1-way plane ticketneed tix to see their first 
HAPPY 21st Amy RazzI!! ND game. 
3 Penn State G.A.s. from Boston to Ch1cago Kickoff your football weekend right
Call Kate x4071 to trade STANFORD or AIR FORCE 
on October 28

Call Andy at x1211 by coming to McCormick's It's about t1me you're 21!
$MONEY$ for your tickets STUDENT TIX(3) for sale at must be female. 
TONIGHT to see: Can't wait to take you outFACE VALUE. Call Randy at if interested, call x4500Selling all stud. tix!!' 
277·8679 and make you do some ugly
SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY 
..§est_olf~!·:~-~?.~:4-~<IJ-....... ALSO DESPERATELY NEEDED shotsII Get ready for midnight one Penn State student ticket FOR SALE (cheap) tonight'!
NEED 2 PENN ST GA's & THE COFFEEHOUSE OF GRACE with: r:ancing Bears. the Dal1
1 STAN STU

STUDENT TICKETS. Call Wendy at x4055 BRINGS ANOTHER NIGHT OF Lama. Flowing Robes, Purple. CALL STEVE @1453 AUDITORY THRILLS WITH: Baldness..striking
CALL Kat1e 2563 Love-all your fun fnends NEED 1 MIAMI STUD OR GA 
9:00 JUDY HUTCHINSON AND CALL TONY 271-1873 BRIDGET.
Need Stanford GAs RACHEL CRUZ Have you been to McCormick's yetHAVE 2 MIAMI MARRIED LAURA.
call Matt 273-1537 10:30 BONE FOREST th1s year? No? Well. neither have Will Trade: STUDENT TICKETS ANDIOR MICHELLE'!'
FRIDAY,OCT, SIN THE we. So let's all go to see HELP I'M STUCK!!!!!!!!!!! 1 Air Force Stud for LOTS OF $$$ TO TRADE FOR GRACE BASEMENT. WATCH OUT FOR THE 
1 Stanford Stud or GA 4 PENN STATE GA' S. CALL SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION 
~.._.. 
SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY 
277-9869.

...wnh 2 marned student tickets for Call Anthony 273-9417 OF TOSTITOS liND PACE MIAMI. Yeah. MIAMI· no ID Tonight at McCormick's 
( ' 
PICANTE... 


HELPII!! REMEMBER...! KNOW WHEREreqwred. best offer call: Hey all you Monkey Heads..­
SELLING STUD TIX I need 2 Stanford GA.s. YOU LIVE ... 
Come have another good time with 
to home games Please call Pat ASAPx 239·8232 233-7328. HEY CYNTHIA-
us at McCormick's Tomght. A Amy 272·8954 good time for all. 
HAVE A HAPPY 19TH!!' "LIVE IT UP. DUDE II" For sale· Two STANFORD GAs PtT· SEA MONKEY CONSPRIACY 
WE LOVE YA ·TAL REN. MO 259·0539. Leave msg if after Spm 273·9209 
BECKY & ADMIN BLDG necessary. Offers negotiable. leave b.o. syd sdgf
NEED1-2GA-MIAMI X1488 
~----------.-~------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 5 1990 

David Souter walks to the law office of a friend Tuesday to watch the Senate debate his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. 

To order by mail call Late for the Sky Production Co. 
(800) 422-3434 
Cost is $24.95 plus $2.00 shipping 

The Observer page 9 
Fireside chat introduces new philosophy 
By MOLLY MALLOY 
News Writer 
By thinking of occurrences only in their relationship to past, present and future, Western society has trapped it­self, according the Circular Frame of Reference. 
The Circular Frame of Reference helps to avoid this tendency, by putting everything into a continuous circle giving different perspectives from dif­ferent vantage points, accord­ing to Ronald Dorris, assistant professor of American Studies. 
At a fireside chat yesterday, "African Philosophy and the Circular Frame of Reference," Dorris said this cyclical philos­ophy is non-secular and is found in all cultures. This phi­losophy can combat "the bid of Western society to control our essence." 
Registration is the first part of the Circular Frame of Reference, according to Dorris. Registration is followed by a noticeable sensation. 
Under this philosophy, sensa­tion is the basis of one's per-
up for sale. The Golden Dome could be yours for a mere $400. This may be your only chance to laugh about Academic Probation. 
Each game includes one full color folding game board, tokens, Campus N\ail and Contingency Cards, Credits, Diplomas, play money, deeds and dice. 
ceptions, Dorris said. Perceptions then lead to con­ceptions. 
Only through this series of reactions can anything be con­ceived as real or "is," according to Dorris. Therefore, "to do something for the sake of doing it is to do something to be seen," he said. 
The whole point of the Circular Frame of Reference is to avoid doing things just to be seen, according to Dorris. This philosophy concentrates on capturing the "is"ness of things through a six point model which relates back to the four step process of registration, sensation, conception, percep­tion and conception. 
The first step is presentation of a challenge as a revelation, Dorris explained. To illustrate this step, he used as an example someone whose house is de­stroyed by a hurricane. 
Rather than view the hurri­
cane as a tragedy, it can be 
seen as a opportunity to start 
over. Thus, the challenge be­
comes a sign of what one 
should do next, he said. 
These revelations come from nature, other humans or within oneself, according to Dorris. 
Acceptance or rejection of what has been revealed is the next step in the philosophy. If one rejects the revelation, the cycle stops there. But accep­tance leads to the search for some greater truth, which is what Dorris called the third step. 
Through this search comes discovery, which comes when "you begin to understand how to name what's coming at you," he said. 
Confirmation of discovery, like the revelation, comes from nature, from others or from within oneself, Dorris said. Once this confirmation is established, only the final step remains. 
This step, planning of the strategy, brings the philosophy full circle as it provides a knowledge of the immediate ac­tion when one is confronted with a similar challenge or rev­elation. 
Westerners escape Iraq 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia.---------------, (AP) -Three Britons who 
Escape Route From lrag 
escaped from Iraq by sea said 
Three Britons and two Frenchmen
Thursday their fear of Iraq 
escaped Iraq in a small boat along 
sustained them through their 
long hours bobbing in 10-foot 
l!tl~illi!!!:!~~!Qj~~~ay .:..-----' 
swells of the open Persian Gulf. 
The three, rescued 
Wednesday morning along with 
two Frenchman off the border 
city of Khafji, spent 25 hours in 
a 10-foot fiberglass boat float­
ing through the marshes and 
canals of southern Iraq, down 
the Shatt-al-Arab waterway 
and into the gulf. 
They avoided lights, used a 
small compass to navigate and 
got lost several times before 
being picked up by a Saudi 
coast guard vessel. 
"It's a trip I wouldn't like to 
do again, but it was well worth 
it now that I am here," Mike 
Teesdale, 40, told a news con­
ference. "My fear was of Iraq, 
not of the trip." 
The men said they would fly formation about the detainees 
back to London early Friday. publicly. 
It was the first report of The other escapees were Western men escaping Iraq in Britons Ivan Manning, 44, and over six weeks. Baghdad has Keith Barkworth, 36. The permitted hundreds of women Frenchman were Amedee du and children to leave Iraq and Paty, 53, and Janel Cellier de Kuwait since its invasion Aug. 2 Buriane, 55, both barge mas­
of Kuwait, but has restricted ters. They refused to talk to the departures of thousands of press on the advice of their em­Western men. bassy. 
Iraq has taken several hun­The Britons said they had dred of the hostages and put been planning their trip for a them near key military and month. civilian targets, describing While they had plenty of food them as "guests" serving to and water and were not being prevent a military attack on held at gunpoint, they were Iraq. Western leaders have de­worried about what might hap­scribed them as a "human pen if a war breaks out over shield." the Iraqi occupation. 
The Britons said they knew of "The conditions were OK," some Americans being held Teesdale said. "What we feared near the oil installation where most was if trouble started they worked south of the Iraqi who knows what would have port of Basra. They said they happened. I just don't trust a 
did not want to reveal the in-lot of people in Iraq." 

A representative will be on campus ldlDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1990 to discuss 
GRADUATE STUDY 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES 
''~·•~"Y"'."t:.TI,II••......1:,:fJ.I'I.--~'• ..._,'\.'h;.'I..IS.I#·•·*'"'-•.._t_'\_<CS.f"s,..'L"'\.""-•.• ..'-'r.~.,t;C•-..•,..•..._",_..nL"~-...-,.~·..~~~4.&rl.~...,,...,.._.,,.~nT..•.,.•.....-."r..·~.·trf!•'~J'J',.fl'.._.~-·..r,1'.f'.'P..~1',i~-"".JI'\,..«.'f!"'lll'*'!'-•1i'!':-.~~~·~ ..•-•••.,.. 
. . . 

Viewpoint 
Friday, October 5, 1990
page 10 

~~ 
,I
,, I 
.( 
:f 
f) 
'>
', '~. 
,/ 
~ ·. 
I~ 
,, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Edltor-ln.Chlef Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor •..••••••••...••.•.•.••Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ..•••••••••••.•Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••••••••.••.••••••.••Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor••••••...•..••.••Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •••••.••••••••.••••.•....Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community anlJ the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
ROTC enables many to attend Notre Dame 
The impending dedication of the new Pasquerilla Center has prompted members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to suggest that the Reserve Officer's Training Corps (ROTC) program goes against the mission of this Catholic institution and should be dropped. These changes are uncalled for and unfair. 
The main goal of ROTC is not to train these students to kill, but to instill leadership and disciplinary skills that will benefit them both as members of the military and as civilians. 
While it is true that weapons training is a part of the ROTC program, it is training at a basic level. Participants in the program are not being brainwashed to kill. The foundation of the ROTC program, and of the United States military in general, is defense. These students are giving up their valuable free time during college and also fulfilling a commitment to their country after graduation. 
Furthermore, through the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC programs, hundreds of scholarships are awarded every year. Without these scholarships many students would not be at Notre Dame. 
Tuition is well over $10,000 and increasing by 9 percent every year, and when combined with room, board, books and living expenses the price of a good education becomes more than the average family can handle. 
Today, the Army ROTC has 156 men and 43 women cadets; the Navy, 277 males and 25 females; and the Air Force, 139 males and 41 females. 
This brings the number of students in ROTC to 681. Without ROTC scholarships, most of these 681 students would not be here. It is preposterous that opponents o the ROTC programs presence at Notre Dame would allow the elimination of 681 scholarships. 
It is a gross misfortune when an intelligent and de­serving students are unable to continue their educations due to financial reasons. If they believe in the mission o ROTC and are willing to sacrifice free time for ROTC in return for an education, the chance ought to be available. 
The ROTC program enriches the education of students as well as provides a means for financially strapped students to attend Notre Dame. Therefore, we believe the Reserve Officer's Training Corps program should remain a part o Notre Dame. 
DOONESBURY 
8lJT THeN I TH()()6HT, WHOA, 
fKJW MY H~! IFMIJ<e­IA/HO HAS MOR& MOR/Jt? THAN ANYON& I KNOW-IF H9'5 IN­Va.VW IUITH 7H& PRO.Jf:C!; 7H£N 
IT Ml15T 8B QI:'AY, !</6HT? 
\ 


LETTERS 

Caption ironic in its ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
The caption which ran un­derneath the picture of the Native American dancers at Monday's Entertainment on the Quad (The Observer, Oct.l) was not only rude, but also a good demonstration of ,the ignorance that seems to persist on this campus. Despite the fact that this week is supposed to help dispel common stereotypes about other cultures, The Observer has chosen to perpet­uate them. 
It was hardly an "Indian in­vasion." The majority of the participants in Monday's event were Potawatomi Indians. This University would not stand where it is today if they had not been so generous. The Potawatomi Indians gave this land to the University in ex­change for the education of their people. The University is now in violation of this agree­ment because qualified Potawatomi Indians do not re­ceive a free education. It is very ironic that Notre Dame can so strongly claim that they are a family-based organization and at the same time leave important contributing mem­bers out in the cold. 

Furthermore, explanations were given previous to the be­ginning of every dance. Therefore, labeling the Inter-tribal dance as "some sort of tribal dance" was inexcusable. 

I hope that in the future The Observer takes more care in covering cultural events. What The Observer may deem unim­portant is another person's life and history. I encourage ev­eryone to attend this week's events sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. By doing so, you will not only learn about other people's cul­tures, but you will also learn about yourself. 
Monica Tsethlikai Lewis Hall Oct. 2. 1990 
Wording offensive to students 
Dear Editor: 

One objective of the 1990 Multicultural Fall Festival is to demonstrate the beauty of the various cultures represented at Notre Dame. For several of my colleagues and me, the caption below the photograph on page 1 of The Observer, Oct. 2, illustrates insensitivity to Notre Dame's American Indian students and their culture. We believe that this unfortunate choice of words works against the purposes of the Multicultural Fall Festival and deserves an apology from the person on The Observer staff who wrote the caption. 
Stephen D. Grissom Associate Director Undergraduate Admissions 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'We keep passing unseen
WALJ<? '!OUSIUY, 

through little moments of other 
R/6HT? N080f)Y IAJAi)<S IN 
people's lives." 
l.A.! 
\ ~ 

Robert Pirsig 
,\Jh'J ; ...... ~~\'\-\t"'.f. i..'\\\J\ \ \'J\. I~ It' .I 1·1\• <l:'.u I I&· 1•1 •• '· •· 't'~,J.·; • 
~\1\l¥1. 1\\'o: .\(\f)!. '1\JIIfJI/I;r,:'l.f .1(1,.., !,J,1.··~')fl(~ ':::J;:').• 

Viewpoint
Friday, October 5, 1990 page 11 
More attention needs to be given to children of poverty 

By Maura McCabe Sfleehan 
As world leaders of more than 70 nations gathered at the United Nations last weekend for a summit on the plight of children, one was left to ponder over the hypocrisy of the Bush Administration's policies on children in this country. 
On September 25, the Census Bureau released a report which revealed that half of the na­tion's poverty victims (to be of­ficially "in poverty," a family of four must earn less than $12,675 a year) were children or elderly. The report cited that "the poverty rate for children continues, as it has since 1975, to be higher than that for any other age group." 19.6 percent of children under 18 years live below the poverty line and 22.5 percent of children under six fall into this category. In other words, almost one-quarter of American children under six years old live in poverty. Even more staggering is the fact that 50 percent of African-American children under the age of six are living in poverty. 
Not only has the United States witnessed the pauperization of its youth under the Reagan and Bush Administrations. but there has also been a steady increase in the number of illegally em­ployed children. In 1989, there were 22,500 detected cases of illegally employed children, up from 9,200 in 1983 and consid­erably above all 1970 levels. Most of the violations found by federal investigators are in the retail trade, especially restau­rants. However, the growth of sweatshops in the urban immi­grant communities has also contributed to the increase in child-labour law violations. Many mothers lacking afford­able child care, must bring their children to the shops, where employers subsequently put the children to work. Other times, mothers working on a piece-rate system need assis­tance from their children to make enough money to pay for food and rent. 
Although Bush declared him­self the "education" President and in numerous speeches ex­pressed how important family is to him, it appears that this sentiment of care and concern was merely election year rhetoric. 

. Over the past weekend, many statistics about the perils which the children of this world must endure were documented on broadcasts and in newspapers. In most cases, the center of at­tention was on the appalling statistics emerging from the "third world nati6ns." However, the United States must also consider the statistics it is generating: infant mortality has climbed from a low of 11 percent (out of every 1,000 births) in the mid-1980s to 13 percent (out of every 1,000 births). This rate is higher than most other industrialized nations such as West Germany, Britain and even Russia; one out of five American children suffer from malnutrition and among minorities this figure increases to an inexcusable rate of one out of two children. 
Clearly, these statistics are disturbing, and if the United States plans to compete with other industrial nations in the next few decades, it must take steps immediately to improve the lives of all the nation's im­poverished, especially its chil­dren, who are its resource of the future, which the govern­ment is nonchalantly allowing to be systematically depleted. 
Although the policy tools needed will be complex and must be well thought out and coordinated, there are several actions that the U.S. govern­ment could undertake immedi­ately: 
1. 
All women must be pro­vided with pre-and post-natal care. 

2. 
Nutritional counseling and immunizations must be pro­vided for all women and their children. 

3. 
Day care for children with working mothers must become a national priority. Government and business need to cooperate in providing day care centers for working mothers. 

4. 
One of the reasons for the increase in child poverty is clearly related to the fact that there are more families headed by women. When one hears 


this, it appears that the woman is to blame. But is it any won­der that a household headed by a female is more likely to be in poverty when women's median earning are only 68 percent of the earnings for men? Action must be taken to bring women's wages up to par with the earnings of their male counterparts. 
5. Federal monitoring and prosecution of businesses en­gaging in illegal labour prac­tices must be increased before 
U.S. factory conditions revert to early industrial revolution conditions. 
6. Finally, there must be an increase in the quality of educa­tion provided to our nation's youth-especially for the chil­dren of the inner cities. 
The United States cannot al­low its most valuable resource-its children-to whither away in the vicious cycle of poverty. Action must be taken immediately, before it is too late. 
Maura McCabe Sheehan is a graduate student in the de­partment ofeconomics. 

Student Senate helps create equal rights 
Dear Editor: The real effect of the 
The Student Senate on Oct. 1 resolution may be the first step moved in a rare act of political toward the achievement of courage that needs to be equal civil rights for all Notre applauded. After a heated Dame students. The Senate, in debate, the Senate approved a effect, issued a direct challenge resolution recognizing to the University administra­"National Coming Out Day" for tion. This administration, in gay and lesbian persons. Their denying recognition to the Gay reason: to draw attention to and Lesbian organization, is of­the discrimination which this ficially discriminating against unrecognized minority suffers them and denying their civil on our campus. rights, in the name of a 
vaguely-defined "University 

Rarely has the Senate shown Mission" and "Catholic the backbone it exhibited today. Character." It exercised what is essentially its only power-to express the More importantly, the Senate concerns of the student body to held themselves accountable for 
the administration and anyone their own actions, by a roll-call who will listen. vote that makes every 
In reality, the Senate has little member's position known. The other power. It has a limited 11-5 vote makes clear that this budget, and all its actions of Senate is going to force the substance are controlled by the administration to hear student administration, through the concerns, and for that we can veto power of Student Affairs. all be grateful. Its only real power is that described by Theodore Richard Delevan Roosevelt as the "bully pulpit": Planner Hall a platform for ideas. Oct. 1, 1990 
Distinctions between sexes ever-existent 
Dear Editor: the fact that God made us 
Sister Kathleen Cannon is "male and female" and not a quoted in The Observer (Sept. unisex creature out of man? 
19) as saying, "Sexist language Was God wrong? Or perhaps is exclusive language related to He was trying to tell us gender." something -like do not forget that men and women are 
Wrong. Sexist language is distinct and different. Or that her feeling about certain life turns savage when the words. She feels a certain way sexes are not loved in truth and, therefore, it is a certain rather than by feelings (check 
LETTERS 

Every minority group deserves the same right to be recognized 
Dear Editor: discrimination or harassment," tain that it is not the policy of 
As an American, I believe that including that which concerns the University of Notre Dame or I, as well as all other human the panty raid. Saint Mary's College to dis­beings, am guaranteed appro­criminate against anyone; 
priate rights by the United Finally, I feel that as a therefore, it is unnecessary to States Constitution. heterosexual, I deserve a day to demand further action from the Unfortunately, I find one prob­celebrate my sexual preference. two institutions to state that lem with the concept of I feel that the Student Senate of fact. We, as Americans, have 
"rights." I see this problem the University of Notre Dame thP. frPP.rlnm tn hP whn WP """"t when some group or organiza­tion of people demands special rights which infringe upon the rights of all others. The consti­tution guarantees us all the same rights, and no one should receive "special rights." 
With this in mind, I was deeply concerned upon reading an article in the Sept. 25 Observer about the demands of the 'Gays and Lesbians' to the Notre Dame Student Senate. I am concerned that if the Senate votes to support the demands, my rights and all others of the ND/SMC community will be vio­lated. I have therefore thought of a few proposals for the Senate so that my peers and I will be treated fairly. 
proclaim Oct. 11, 1990 to be, provided that we do not 
As a Saint Mary's student, I "National Straight Day" so that infringe upon the rights of 
too have been subject to some we heterosexuals at Notre others. I am a Saint Mary's 
unfair discrimination and Dame and Saint Mary's will feel College student and I am proud stereotypes. I therefore pro­equal to those who demand to attend an institution such as pose to the Senate that it recognition of their celebration Saint Mary's. I have confidence "wholeheartedly condemns dis­of "National Coming Out Day." that I am an intelligent woman. crimination, harassment, and I challenge the gay and lesbian violence" against Saint Mary's These proposals are obviously community to look at their women. Recognizing that Saint asinine, but sometimes it is problem in this way. If they are Mary's women on this campus necessary to show absurdity proud and have confidence in "feel the oppression that comes with absurdity. It is important who they are, they should not 
from misinformation and for all of us to realize that we need the approval of others. misunderstanding" about our can use the basic rights already After all, everyone has a right intelligence, I call upon the stu­guaranteed to all of us to our to his/her own opinion. dent body of Notre Dame "to advantage in fighting discrimi­
open their minds and hearts" to nation. The best way is for one their Saint Mary's colleagues to have confidence in one's own Susan Lol,eless 
across the road, and to stand beliefs and morals. I am cer-Off-Campus up against any form of violence, Sept. 26, 1990 
way. This is the psychological out family life today and the basis of Gnosticism -feelings myriad problems resultant from 
United Way collects quarters for cause 
are professed as reality. feelings). Dear Editor: be encouraged to help us well spent. 
However, she redeems herself Suprisingly, there is no Once again, the Hall collect a 1/4 mile of quarters by It will only take a minute ofin part by the quote, "Language protest about the language of President's Council will sponsor donating their spare change. your time. Please stop by theis the way we express belief in the current "Notre Dame Year its annual Quarter Mile for the Each yea~ thousands of Bookstore on Friday and makeGod. By no means is it of.... " Hmmm. Where are the benefit of the United Way. This people are served by volunteers a donation to the United Way.
insignificant or trivial." How word-police when we need event will take place on Friday, of the United Way. This orga­Thank you in advance for yourtrue. them? 
Oct. 5, from 9AM until SPM. nization helps to support such support and generosity. Approximately 1/4 mile of dou­agencies as the American Red
But does this not demand 
ble sided tape will be strung Cross, Big Brothers/Big Sisters Laura Kirchofer attention to the centuries-old Samuel A. Nigro, M.D. '58 between poles placed outside of and the Cancer Society. Your HPC Executive Coordinator 
imagery which has been given Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
the Bookstore. Participants will contributions will definitely be Sept. 30, 1990to us? Does this not accentuate Sept. 26, 1990 


page 12 

t 
i 
I 
I ! 
9~TOBER S-7 

l 
l 
weekend calendar

i 
I 
I 
1, 

MUSIC 
Rachel Cruz & Judy Hutchinson, Bone Forest, The Coffeehouse, Grace Hall, 8:30 p.m. 
Vision, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Bone Forest, XVZ Affair, Theodore's, 5 p.m. 
Champion, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 
THEATRE 

The Trojan Women, laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall,, 
8:10 p.m. Tickets $5. ' EVENTS . 
I 
Culture on the Quad, Spanish Club, Fieldhouse Mall, 12 ·1 p.m. Entertainment on the Quad,Ballet Folklorico, Fieldhouse Mall, 4:30 • 6 p.m. 
sa 
ay

! 
\ 
MUSIC 
The Grandmothers, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Champion, WMRD, 9:30p.m. 
THEATRE 

The Trojan Women, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall,. 8:10p.m. Tickets $5. 
EVENTS 
Taste of Nations, South Dining Hall, 9 p.m. • 1 a.m. 

MUSIC 
"All Mozart," South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2:30 p.m. Tickets$ 5.75 students, $13.75 adults. 
Faculty Recital, featuring Craig Cramer, Sacred Heart 
Church, 8 p.m. 
Champion, WMRD, 9 p.m. 
THEATRE 

The Trojan Women, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall, 
3:10 p.m. Tickets $4. 
ftijls 
FRIDAY 
"Black Rain," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:15 p.m. 
"Henry V,"Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY 
"Black Rain," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:15 p.m. 
"Henry V,"Annenburg Auditorium, .7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
"Narrow Margln,"1 :45, 3:40, 5:30, 7:30 & 9:40 p.m. "Exorcist Ill," 2:30, 4:45, 7 &9:15 p.m. "Jungle Book," 2:15p.m. 

~; ~ "Mo' Better Blues,"4:30, 7 & 9:30p.m. 
!·:: 
i . ~­
The Observer 

• 

Notre Dame's kilt-wearing men 



NO's First Aid 
F.A 
KATE KECKLER 
accent writer 
W 
here can one find some of 

the tallest men 
on campus 
when basketball isn't in season? 

Just lend an eye to the foot­ball field after a victory and watch the Irish Guard perform the traditional victory clog. 
But anyone who has ever questioned the true purpose of the Irish Guard, take note. According to senior Mike Norman, four year member and captain of the guard, the Irish Guard provides security and clears the way for the band. 
And clear they do. On one oc­casion, the members physically lifted and moved a car out of the way so the band could prac­tice, said Norman. Furthermore, they do all this in skirts. 
Actually, the proper descrip­tion of the Irish Guard's uni­forrn is the kilt. The special Notre Dame plaid pattern was first conceived in 1966, and the design was officially approved by the Tartan Advisory Committee in Scotland in 1970. 
Believe it or not, it takes ap­proximately 1 112 hours for a member of the Irish Guard to get dressed. Their complete uniform consists not only of a kilt, but traditional (and curi­ously named) items such as hose, spats, flashers, a sporran, doublet, cairngorm and shako. Norman evaded an answer when questioned as to whether or not the guard mem­bers wear anything under their kilts. 
The current guard consists of seniors Norman (captain), Dennis Very, Mike Stotzer, Jon Sampson. Dan O'Grady. and Pat Cosgrove, grad student Kevin Yaley, juniors Chris Woods and Trey Hester, and sophomore Pat Bednarz. Unofficially, the roster includes Chris Lamps, a senior and three year veteran of the guard who is currently recovering from a paralyzing disease. 
No one can question the dedi­cation of the men on the guard. They practice along with the 
band 1 112 hours a day, 5 days 
a week. They also attend 
morning practices on game 
days. 

Men on the Irish Guard are chosen on the basis of march­ing ability, composure, and ap­pearance. There is a 6'2" height requirement, and guardsmen must maintain a stern expression when performing. Try as you might , you won't get these guys to crack a smile. 
This year, 33 people tried out for open positions. Except for the captain. all returning guardsmen are required to re­audition. Although no women have ever auditioned, they are welcome provided they meet the height requirement. 
The guardsmen take particu­lar care in their appearance be­cause former guardsmen may inspect the group prior to a performance. After talking to a 1953 alumnus and former guardsman, Norman said, "Pride in the group fosters the tradition." These unique and special ties to the past promise to continue as long as Notre Dame has a football team. 

Friday, October 5, 1990 The Observer page 13 


•

Who IS that Leprechaun? 
strong competition, winning the
STEPHANIE SNYDER 
title of Leprechaun was never a
accent writer 
given, Liptak's physical and mental preparation, his creativ­ity and most importantly, his 
J 
unior Bryan Liptak may spirit and love for Notre Damebe too short to compete gave him that needed edge.
against a LaPhonso Ellis "I thought I could give the dunk and too small to Leprechaun a classy represen­tackle the likes of Mike tation, not just scream myStonebreaker, but his brains out and roll all over theheight of 5'5" and his place," Liptak stated. He added
weight of 127 pounds allows him to bound along the knowingly, "The Athletic De-sidelines with the players and partment doesn't want a side cheer his heart out with the show." crowd as this year's ND/SMC Ironically, Liptak's previous mascot Leprechaun. summer jobs include such 'side 
"I wanted to put my size to show' roles as Shamu and practical use," Liptak joked Fat Cat Mouse Buckle, at Sea .. while explaining his reasons for World. His ultimate goal, toss­trying out to be the 1990-91 ing aside his psychology major, Leprechaun. Size was not, how­is to work for Walt Disney in ever, an important deciding the entertainment department. factor. Spirit was. Entertainment, in his eyes, 
During his freshman and requires spontaneity. Liptak sophomore years, Liptak be­confesses his difficulty with be­came notorious for his enthusi­ing spontaneous, "A lot of asm at the Irish football and times I just have to think things basketball games. This enthusi­out." Consequently, about an asm never wavered -in fact, hour every night, on top of his Liptak would be at his loudest two to three hour practices and most obnoxious during the with the cheerleaders, is spent slow, predictable games, want­brainstorming ideas for up­ing no less than to have the en­coming games or special tire crowd participating in his events. 
bers of F.A.S.T. are interested latest cheer. Speaking of time, much has
MARC JOHNSON 
in the medical profession, but "I would be at these games," been spent readying himself to 
accent writer • 
N 
they can also count electrical he explained, "and someone do the traditional touchdown otre Dame has engineers and English majors standing near me would say push-ups, which, he assured, won its last among their ranks. Of course a 'You know, I could see you do­seems to be the most popularfootball game of certain amount of training is ing that.' That made me think." issue concerning the the season, and necessary for these positions, By November of 1989, Liptak Leprechaun. So far he has not 
fans pour onto the but the most important re­had made up his mind and the missed a single point and in­field, but the field quirement is a love for working training had begun. Tryouts tends to match every one the 
is not at the same level of the with people. would take place one week team makes. stands. As your best friend after Spring Break. To remain the Leprechaun for jumps he twists his ankle, and While many Notre Dame stu­Knowing no gymnastics, Lip­the 1991-92 year, Liptak must you have no idea what your dents could not imagine watch­tak found himself taking a tryout again. Will he? 
next course of action should ing the game from anywhere crash-course from some mem­Liptak answered, restatingbr. Do you rush onto the field, but the stands, members of bers of the ND/SMC Gymnastics that the title would still not be or do you stay with your fallen F.A.S.T. relish the chance to be Club, while learning how to a given, "If things go as well as comrade and try to treat his an active part of the weekend walk on his hands by f)racticing they are going now. I would 
injury? festivals. No one expresses any in between the bookshelves at guess yes. Every game's a new Actually, you will not need to sadness at not watching every 
the library. experience, so you never know do anything because of the ser­minute of every game with their While he insists that, due to how you'll feel." 
vices of a little appreciated friends, and co-workers must campus organization. Any in­create new friendships in order juries to fans are tended to by to work together successfully. the F.A.S.T. organization. This A successful organization de­acronym stands for First Aid pends on the hard work of its Services Team, and they are a members, and senior Laura Ol­presenee at each Notre Dame szewski serves as the coordina­football game. tor of these members. Her re­
These lifesaving techniques sponsibility is to make certain prove themselves necessary that workers are present at not when least expected, and the only every football game but at Purdue football game illus­every event that first aid might trated this fact. For three be necessary. She not only co­quarters the expertize was un­ordinates football, but she also neePssary, but suddenly in a coordinates Non Varsity manner of five minutes, teams Athletics, basketball games, were called to accidents at concerts, and any other event three sPparate sites in the which occurs in the JACC. stands. A dialysis patient had The activities of her organiza­collapsrd, an usher had a tion are coordinated with the seizure. and a women fainted desires of the administration and hit her head. The F.A.S.T. and the actions of Joann team was probably never no­Burrington. "She [Joann) does ticed in the stands, but they re­everything," said Olszewski. sponded when needed. The F.A.S.T. organization has 
Thirty-four trained members come to depend on the work of of the F.A.S.T. organization are Burrington more and more of present at each contest. They late as the group has only re­are on the sidelines of the field, cently come to exist as its own in the top rows of the stands, entity apart from the Red and under the stands assisting Cross. This new freedom has injured fans to the two first aid meant a budget and the ability stations they help operate. They to update equipment and con­can be distinguished by their duct actual recruiting. red smocks with white crosses, Although every home football and each member of F.A.S.T. game is not going to be an can tn~at a variety of injuries emergency-a-minute situation, based on their standard first when accidents do happen, the 

aid and CPR training. F.A.S.T. team will be ready to Observer/Kevin Weise 
Bryan Liptak, NO's enthusiastic Leprechaun, whips the crowd into a frenzy with hiS
As may be assumed, a certain go into action at a moment's majority of the seventy mem-spirited performances on the field.
notice. 


Friday, October 5, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
The blood on the bricks at Notre Dame 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I'm proud to see new build­ings going up and Notre Dame; yet looking at them from the outside, newly landscaped, I have feeling that they tend to lack souls. A late, great Notre Dame professor used to say that the blood of all the genera­tions who have struggled at Notre Dame since the days of the Founder is on the bricks of the place. 
The new buildings may be washed in the sweat, tears and honest spit of hard effort gen­erated by our benefactors and fund-raisers; but how can you feel at home in a place if you're aware that there's no blood on the bricks that would confirm them in the grace that they need to become a deathless part of the school tradition? 
Besides, there can be no re­mission of sin without the shedding of blood {Heb. 9:22). All decked out as a rich man's school, Notre Dame has no more milk of human kindness flowing through its veins than the Trump Tower, or any other symbol of wealth that lacks a heart, does. At least that's the way many good ole' boys feel about the landmark quads now on the rise at Notre Dame in every direction. Some of the se­nior alums don't have much forgiveness to offer the Emerald City, which is, in their view, now turning over its once­Catholic acres to the servants of Mammon, to use as a gold coast where they can build their monuments. 
Withholding forgiveness is as Catholic as the Pope. Some Catholics spend a lifetime trying to forgive the Church, mel­lowing eventually in time for Christian burial. Some Domers resist forgiving Notre Dame, so that they can have lifestyle worth hanging onto. No Domer is required to forgive Notre Dame everything, even if it were humanly possible; and no Domer, I suspect, has ever tried to, except maybe the late great professor, who forgave Notre Dame for breaking his heart, because he saw blood on the bricks that give them the ap­pearance of a wailing wall. 

I wonder if Father Hesburgh always forgives Notre Dame everything. Are there times when Notre Dame needs his forgiveness for falling short of his dreams for the campus? Like Gatsby, you can pay a high price for living too long with a single dream. Maybe Hesburgh's a salvation is that he has many dreams the size of the world. 
Of students I have met, Chris, first winner of NO's Martin Luther King scholarship, tops the list as the brightest and best. Halfway through his first semester, he stopped going to classes. He never talked much to me about his problem; but it was all written down in the journal he showed me. 
Chris couldn't forgive Notre Dame for not being Harvard. He'd been offered a free ride at Harvard. He came here because his brother, whom he idolized, asked him to. Chris found, after visiting fair Harvard, to his horror, that Notre Dame was like being in jail. He might have discovered that Notre Dame can be fair too, if he'd stayed long enough to see the blood on the bricks. I could have shown him the blood, if I had known then that it's there like a birthmark. 
demptrix--customarily receives the body of the victim--as 
Soldiers die on battlefields as though it were an unwritten law of the universe that when justice is bloody because of the curse that began when Cain killed Abel, then the violence must fall first on sons, husbands, and brothers, whose widows and orphans must afterwards be comforted. 
The pictures of the Civil War dead, seen on PBS last week, didn't leave room for poetic li­cense which could describe Antietam and Shiloh as scenes ofT a holy card. 
But those grim corpses spoke louder than the crosses they were eventually buried under, about how expendable soldiers must feel when they're exposed on the so-called fields of glory as cannon-fodder. No wonder the generals felt outranked as Christian soldiers by the women who waited like "Stabat Mater Dolorosa," to receive the dead, and to nurse the wounded back to health. Here, one hopes, was the shedding of blood that remitted a nation's sins, and opened the gate that leads the lambs of God to eternal life. 
How long will we have to wait for the theology to give us im­ages of woman as alter Christus? -I will forgive Notre Dame for its year of liberating women if Notre Dame can for­give me for insisting that neu­tering the church's fathers isn't liberation enough. 
All our arguments are going to leave more blood on the bricks, which is needed anyway to give the new buildings their baptism of desire. After the blood-letting, can there be for­giveness? 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
NOVEMBER 15. THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 
~ 
~· 
~ 
..,. 

f.<~ 
~ 
,~ .. ·.. 
-
,~ 
~ 

~ 
I 
~~~ 
"~ 
,..
-·:"'G' 
• ,; 
-~. .. ~
..._..,.. 
~~ 
,:1".
~ 
~ 
~
~ 

Which eyes have glaucoma? 
Only an eye examination can tell. The eye disease glaucoma can steal sight without warning Signs. Avoid needless sight loss with a glaucoma eye exam. 
~, . . . 
~~~~National Soc1ety to Prevent Blindness 
For information on glaucoma, call 1-800-221-3004, National Center for Sight, a service ofPrevent Blindness, weekdays from 9 to 4, Centra/Standard Time. 
LIFE IS YOUR MOST VALUABLE POSSESSION. 
PASS IT ON. 

Of all the riches you could leave to your family, the most 
precious is the gift of life. Your bequest to the American 
Heart Association assures that priceless legacy by supporting 
research into heart disease prevention. 

To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us 
today. It's the ftrst step in making a memory that lasts beyond 
a lifetime. 

/ 
•
(JAmerican Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 

Good News For Anyone Who Has One Of These. 
The good news is you can lower your major risk factors for heart disease. And the best news is that
~ 
Americans have done just that. 
You"ve quit smoking, balanced 
your diet and watched your blood 
pressure. 
In fact, since 1977 death rates from heart attack have gone down by 30.9%. Death rates from stroke have gone down 3Z3%. So keep up the good work. And we"ll keep on working to support the scientific breakthroughs and medical innovations that help us all make progress against America's number one killer. 
To learn about reducing your risk. contact your local American Heart Association. 
Your Life Is In Your Hands. 
•

American Heart Association V 
Catholic students sometimes have a hard time forgiving Notre Dame for being more Catholic than their parents; and they stay angry with the University for refusing to run dorms like a wide-open town on a Saturday night when the moon is high. Catholicism is a religion that can leave its mem­bers feeling guilt-ridden and troubled in conscience, answer­able to popes whom the real world laughs at. You can tell from the counter-culture that being a Catholic who tries to stay pure in thought, word, and deed isn't cool, easy, or possi­ble. 
So, nobody is perfect; and the Latin word "credo" doesn't mean "I behave." Christ's blood is on the bricks of the Church, as a sign that God became hu­man in order to save sinners. But of course, that's Jesus-talk, used to brainwash the natives who have gotten restless, to get them back on the reservation. I find Domers, old enough to know better, unforgivable when they go to brothels wearing their class rings, as a way of proving to their drinking bud­dies that Catholics aren't hyp­ocrites on their days ofT-duty. 
I receive mail from Catholic diehards all over the country, which denounce Notre Dame for being, unforgivably, a hotbed of heresy. Heretics don't bother me; I grew up among heretics; I'm part heretic my­self. If you should catch me, or any other Notre Dame heretic showing our true colors, don't ask why we're promoting heresy. Ask us why we're using Notre Dame as a stage for promoting heresy. 


The answer is that we would feel stifled, speaking only as Catholics. We'd feel stifled if Notre Dame only allowed us to speak as Catholics, loyal to the Pope. Notre Dame doesn't allow us to walk all over the Pope, either, as though he were fair game for trashing. Should we forgive Notre Dame for not being as tolerant as the Harvard Divinity School? 
I see from the Observer that male chauvinism at Notre Dame is becoming even more unforgivable than smoking in public; unlike smokers, male chauvinists are not a dying breed, and who can blame them? 
The central icon of our Christian redemption features the Son of Man meeting death on the Cross, while His sorrow­ful mother watches Him die. Juxtaposing the figures, you could imagine the pain-wracked woman stretched on those nails, while her Son waits in sorrow for her to give up the ghost. 
Such an imaginary scene, turned into an icon, would do violence to some verifiable truth about out human condi­tion. In the continuing passion­tide of the world, the woman as pieta--and possible as co-re­
Friday, October 5, 1990 page 15
The Observer 

--~-· 
-~-----~.-............_, 

The Observ~r accepts classifieds every business day from 1oa.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint 1\Aary"s office Haggar College Cen~er. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classified$ must b~
Classifieds prepa1d. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Lost: 2 keys on a plain ring btwn oshag-Galvin-NDH
NOTICES

------..:...::..::__jI 
please call x2661 if found 

Typing Guess? WATCH FOUND 10/2 Pickup & Delivery at Stepan Fields. Call Amy 277-7406 
x1343 and describe it. 

SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
WANTED 
JUST SAY NO! 
BABYSITTER WANTED: LookingBuy/Sell used books at Pandora's for someone to watch 2 small Books. corner of ND ave. & children in my home. 4-8 hours aHoward. 233-2342 week.(flexible) wage negotiable. Transportation required. 

SMC-ND students--summa;·· programs London (May 22-June 
SPRING BREAK 1991 -Individual21) and Rome (June 16-July 15). 

or student organization needed toTravel1n Ireland, Scot., Eng., 

promote Spring Break trip. EarnFrance, Ger., Switz., and Italy. 

money. free trips and valuableCourses in art, bus. and econ work experience. CALL NOW!!!

educ., Italian, justice ed., his!. -~nd Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800­Soc. Meeting Oct. 15 7:00pm 
327-6013.

Carroll Hall (SMC). Teachers, slides, former students, pizza, etc. 
JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give For 1nfo call Prof. A.A. Black 284­hundreds of employers4460 (office) 272-3726 (home). 

(including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank One, the Federal Resel"\le, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, lnterVarsity Christian Procter & Gamble, and Random Fellowship House) access to your resumeMEETING: through Targeted Recruiting "Why Should Christians Pray" Services (TRS). Only $10 before When ? Fri. Oct. 5. 7:30pm Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment Where ? 427 Stanford kit plus a free Corporate Profiles ?? Call Tim@ x1985 Magazine, describing opportunites 

ALL ARE WELCOME at the nation's leading employers, call 1-800-TRS-JOBS. 
LOST/FOUND 
Medical, sports, or exercise oriented person needed part­

•••••• REWARo••••.... time to assist with patients 
My license was lost/stolen last 9/20 in sports/orthopaedic physical at The Commons. I need ~ back so therapy clinic. CallI can write checks, drink etc .... 
Maura at 277-9901.

It is a Pennsylvania license. PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S name on the ID) with ANY FOR STANFORDinformation. 288-0597 

TIM! X3143 

FOUND AT MICHIGAN GAME­BRO. PETER'S BUSHNELL 
ONE MIAMI TIX BINOCULARS-CALL X1407 AVAILABLE BARBX3143

ATTENTION TO THE YOUNG MAN WHO 
Need 2GA's for TennesseeSTOLE OUR TAP FRI. NITE. TWO 

game! Matt #1070 $$

OF OUR FRIENDS SAW YOU TAKE IT, AND WILL RECOGNIZE YOU WHEN THEY SEE YOU. 
WANTED: Enthusiastic individual RETURN IT, NO QUESTIONS or student organization to promoteASKED. SAME GOES FOR THE Spring Break destination for 1991. 

JERK WHO STOLE MY STRAW Earn commissions. free trips and HAT. 
valuable work experience. Apply now!!! Call 

HAVE YOU SEEN MY KEYS??? 
T.J. at Student Travel Service 1­LAST SEEN ACROSS THE 
800-265-1799.

STREET FROM STEPAN COURTS SITTING ON A FENCE 
Christmas Help POST. HAVE SMILEY FACE AND National firm has many openings EIFFEL TOWER KEY CHAINS. 

available. $8.10 
PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT starting. Gain great businessX1336. 

experience . Weekends and evenings available.call 271-8699 

LOST-AIWA SUPERBASS WALKMAN in Washington 
EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING Hall Laundry Room on Sept.30 

BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS,around 4 pm. I know it sounds JAMACIA AS PART-TIME nice, but please return it. 

CAMPUS REP FOR SPRINGREWARD-$$or MIAMI BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786Call Cesar (1690) ANYONE DRIVING BACK AFTER FALL BREAK FROM THE PHILA OR HARRISBURG" AREA?,ANYWHERE WITHIN FOUND: PACKET OF FAMILY 2HRS. I NEED A RIDE! PLEASE PHOTOS WITH TRISH ON BACK 

CALLX4046

OF THEM OUTSIDE OF HURLEY ON MONDAY. CALL SHARON 
WANTED: NEWSPAPER 239-6370 OR GO TO 225 HAYES­CARRIERS. CALL SEAN @ 3068 HEALY TO CLAIM. 

FOR INFO 

FOUND: JACKET IN FRESHMAN RESOURCE CENTER. CLAIM AT I FOR nENT l 
SECURITY IN OLD ROTC BLDG. l"l: -------------------------------------.____________J STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991­
FOUND: SILVER RING IN 92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK LIBRARY. CALL WITH GLORE 232-1776.
DESCRIPTION 234-5140. 
a studio apartment in lovely LOST: old mansion near N. D. 255 plusYellow Folder­deposit ; please call 2888595 

contains very important material... Rewardl r----------­
~~::~~~~~-~~-~::.~:-~::_·_____ FOR SALE 1 
FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White LOST: Portable TV!!! Excellent condition. 

Yellow Folder-Call x1208 and leave a message
Contains very important material. lor Paul. Will take best offer before 
REWARD!!! 
midnight, Oct. 12th.

Call Jay Johnsrud ... 1581 Sale: 3 Stanford Stud. tix 
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football 2 married, 233-7198 field. GREAT Sentimental ··---------------------------------­Value. If found, please SMALL DAY BED WITH BACK 
contact Cara at x384 7. CUSHIONS, 29 x 72. EXCELLENT 
FOR STUDENT. $65.272-6194. LOST: SILVER NECKLACE -----------------------------------­W/PEARL PENDANT NEAR FOR SALE: 1 STANDFORD AND 2 
SACRED HEART. HIGH 
MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS. CALL SENTIMENTAL VALUE!! PLEASE 
LUIS AT273-1528. CALL AMY AT X34271F FOUND. 1985 BUICK REGAL 75,000 Ml EXCELLENT LOST AT THE PUTTING GREEN: 
CONDITION,V6,AC,2 

A Hogan Sl sandwedge x1930 DOOR,LIGHT BLUE ASKING $4200. CALL 233-5316. 
MOVING SALE 81 olds omega 
good body running well $700 
or better offer 239-5754 or 
271-8858 

SELLING AIR FORCE G.A.s AND STUDENT TIX. CALL 273-1308 and leave offer. 
FOR SALE: 

2 STAN. STUD. TIX 
SEC.30 
JIM #2461 

1984 Buick Regal-Loaded 
New Transmission, Brakes $2400, 271-1953,Wendy 
o/~k%%%%o/~k%%%%%%o/~k%% 
0/oo/o 


Salell4 Stanford Stu. Tix $20.00 each,Call271-9059 Sale Student Tix ... Sale!-Yes! 
YELLOW 18 CU. FT REFRIGERATOR--NO PROBLEMS $50 CALL 287-2587 
TICKETS 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 

I NEED TIXS FOR All HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
Need 2 Air Force GA's call 
Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 
HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay $$$$$$$$!Call Matt X1055 
Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or 
GA Please call Matt X3024 
Need Miami GAs & Studs 
Mike 273-1 537 

Need Miami stud tix 
for brothers, Dan x1795 
Need: 

TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! 
CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 
I REALLY NEED 2 MIAMI G.A.'s!! good $$$-call Jacquie @ x4986 
ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971, II am-8pm, M-F. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL 
KAREN @ 284-5261.
......................... 
NEED 2GA'S FOR STAN AND 
AIRFORCE MIKE-1625 
!!I!!I!HELP!!!!II I NEED TWO STUD. TIX FOR AIR FORCE FOR ADORABLE LITTLE BROTHER!! CALL PATSY X4765 
TICKETS WANTED: 
10 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE 
4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE 
CALLX1650 AND LEAVE NAME PRICE AND PHONE IF No ONE Is HOME. 
I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD 
FOR MIAMI OH. FRIEND 
CALL TAD #1718 
STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED! 
••• 3 GAs, or 2 GAs & 1 
marriade stud tix ••• 
call Patty 255-5771 
NEED 2 GA's for STANFORD 
AIR FORCE, and PENN STATE. 
Call Pete x-1097 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP ME! 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S & MIAMI 
GA'S OR STUD. 
CALL SAM X4013 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STANFORD TIX; need 4 GA's; call Andrea 284-5302 
Need 2 Penn GAs Julie x1992 
BIG$$ for 
2 Air Force GA's call Luigi x4659 

NEED AF GA'S-4 TOGETHER OR 2 SETS OF 2; 3-5 MIAMI GA-1 MIA STUD Tlx• CALL DAVE , 
X1407 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED AIR FORCE, STANFORD AND MIAMI TICKETS. GA'S OR , STUD. CALL ROB OR TOM X1779. 
YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLDI OR MINE IF YOU SELL ME YOUR STANFORD GA'S OR STUD'S. CALL KEVIN AT X2201 
I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X 1068. THANKS 
I NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S 
CALL MARY X4189 

HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589 
WANTED: ONE OR TWO NO­MIAMI TICKETS. CALL MRS. MCINTYRE COLLECT (802) 775­4553. 
I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET CALL MIKE AT X2097 
NO GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625. 
NEED STANFORD TICKETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE (708) 325­0345!!! .!,_ 
NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA. CALL 

277-9406 AND ASK FOR JACKIE. 
WANTED -FOOTBALL TICKETS­PENN STATE GAME NEED 4­PLEASE CALL 201-689-5133 OR WRITE TO P.O. BOX 267 WASHINGTON, N.J. 07882. 
2 STANFORD TIX FOR SALE. 
X4541, X3612. 

Need Student TilC for AIR FORCE. 
Call Jackie x4121 
NEED MIAMI GAs & STUD JOE 
X1761 

NEED STAN. GA'S $$$$$$TOM 234-8608 
HEY! I HAVE 1 AIR FORCE GA TO SELL AND I NEED 1 PENN ST GA CALL ME--RON AT 277­9359 
BUY A RAFFLE TICKET FOR 
$10.00. 

HELP A LOCAL FENCING CLUB AND RECEIVE A CHANCE FOR 2 MIAMI TICKETS. 
CALL CAROLE. 272-7741. 

GET TOP 
FOR YOUR 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKET 1-800-733-8499 
ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL 

PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED NEED 5 EITHER STUD. OR GA . EITHER SINGLE OR IN A BLOCK WILLING TO PAY THE BIG . BUCKS!! CALL JEFF@ #4352 
Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John 
x1220 

2 Stanford GA's Good Seats Sect. 15. Call288-41831eave name. number and offer. 
NEEDED: 2 AIRFORCE GAs FOR GRANDPARENTS CALL MARY X1727 
NEED 2GAs FOR ANY HOME STANFORD STUD TIX FOR SALE CALL4276!! 

LEGITIMATE NEED for two STANFORD GA'S. Cancer Patient has never seen a Notre Dame Game. Will pay reasonable price for tickets. Tom 272-3420. 
HELP!! I need 1 Airforce GA! Willing to pay$$$$$$$$$. Karen X3847 

HAVE 4 STAN. TIX TOGETHER. 
Will trade for 2 Miami 
together and 1 Miami 
separate. Call239-3982 
Need 2 Stud Stanford Tix 
x1560-Kev 

DESPERATELY NEED AIR FORCE TIX!!! CALL KARIN x1992 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately needed: 1 Stanford G.A. Call Pete at x3533 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED THREE AIR FORCE GA's CALL JIM AT #3800 
I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's I!! 
call Hilary x4304 
$ $ $ 
MIAMI AND AIR FORCE 
STUDENT TIX FOR SALE 
BEST OFFER 
CALL JOE 233-4065 
$ $ $ 

..WE NEED Air Force GA's!; &WE have StAN. stud. tix (2) Can buy, trade or sell or mix 
call: 289-6046 or 233-3973 

2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE 272-6459 
I need one AF stud ticket 
Call Mary X2549 
%0/o OfoOfo OfoOfo %% 
MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE 
CALL NOW 2546 
or 3028 
o/o0/o 0/o0/o o/oo/o 

Have 4 Stan GA's will sell or trade 
for Penn St tix Call Chris at 1718 
need 2 Stanford tix 
4757 SHANNON 

I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs & 
PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687 
As of 10/4 needed: 2 STANFORD GA's 1 MIAMI Stud nx 
Call Mike X1890 
I need 1 Stanford GA 
Karen x4806 
For Sale: 

3 Stanford Stud. Tix together 
Call Joe X1688 
Stanford stu. tix For Sale 
Mike x3024 
MIAMI TIX FOR SALE 
DAVE X3024 
FOR SALE: 

Tickets for all remaining home 
games. 
Call Joe X1688 
Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM 

Need Stanford GA's 232-6715 
I need GA's for any home game, but especially Miami, Penn Stand Navy. I will pay well. Call Jason at X3413 or X3419. 
HELP!!! 
DAD NEEDS AN AIR FORCE 
GA 
DON'T LET HIM DOWN Scottx3314 
NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 234-7644 

FOR SALE: 1 STANFORD STUD. TIC. CALL289-8212. 
NEED 2 AF GA TIX. WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD TIX. JOHN 272­8219. 
I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s CALLX3501 
I'VE GOT I STAN STUD FOR SALE. KATHY X1704. 
AAAAAck!! For immediate sale! 4 Student Stnfrd 2 Student A-F Must sell today only! 12-2PM 239-6963 
4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905 
Need Air Force Tix. Students or 
G.A.s Call Paul at1755 

I STILL NEED 2 STANFORD GAs. CALL STACY 271-1953. 
NEED 1 STANFORD STD TICKET 
CALL PAUL AT 1121 
HELP NEED TKTS All GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 
WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687 

BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD GAME. CALL LAUREN 273-1380 
Iii' bro' needs stud. tx-all home games. 277-8379 
I need MIAMI TIX -Chris 234-8891 
I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's Karen x4806 
i Have Penn St. Students best offer 273-1364 

4 Miami GA's together lor sale best offer by 10/5 call 273-1364 
$$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-2171223-9609. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!IIIII 
JUST WON THE LOTTERY---­

I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! 
PLEASE CALL--I'M DESPERATE 
CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 
I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S X1639 
~A 
~Yd 

DATTifS 
00 VfJU_"'_SElF...._ A FLAVOR
.. 
...... ~ 

rn;;;t~r2'f;-$8"]9-­
1

l save over $2.50 I
I Plck any two (",c.)W"lflct S.ndWJcho. I
J two Garden ?&lads. ~us your choice or JI French Fnes or Onion Ring.-; ,anU ~ I 
I Mi"'""''"10714/90 I 
ts~J;------------1 I 99~ I J Bu~ any size sundae and I 1 recetve a second one of the I same size for 99( 
J 
L--------l~l~~--­

NEED MIAMI GEN + STUD TIX 
GAME. AMY X1918 #2287 I want your tix!!l Need 2 PENN ST. 2 Miami Ga's to sell 
LOST: A SET OF 4 KEYS ON THE FOR SALE: Four Stanford GA's OVALS BEHIND STEPEN Call John after 6P.M. atGAs or STU. for sisters. call
and two Miami Studenttix. Best HAVE 1 MIAMI STUD CALL ANDREW AT 1417!1 
CENTER. IF FOUND PLEASE 
offer. Chris 1052. Michele now x4995. BEST OFFER. AMY X1918 (703) 528-8288. see CLASS 1page a 


Jill~... .. ~..............~..~~....ZZ~LS..~......._az~........~....~........................................~..~..~........~aa......................., 
.... 
Scoreboard Friday, October 5, 1990
page 16 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 

Weekend of Champions 
FINAL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

October 4·7, 1990 
Eaat Oiviaion 

w L Pet GB Horne Away x-Boston 88 74 .543 51-30 ;!7-44 Toronto 86 76 .531 2 44-37 42-39 Detron 79 83 .488 9 39-42 40-41 
Thursday Saturday
4 6
Cleveland 77 85 .475 11 41-40 36-45 
Baltifll0f8 76 85 .472 11 1/2 40-40 36-45 

Baseball Volleyball
Milwaukee 74 88 .457 14 39-42 35-46 
New York 67 95 .414 21 37-44 30.51 
Notre Dame vs. Wichita State Golden Dome Classic Coveleski Stadium, 7pm Notre Dame vs. Hofstra, 1 Oam
Weal Division w L Pet GB Horne Away 

LSU vs. Oklahoma, 12 noon
x-Oakland 103 59 .636 51-30 52-29 
Chicago 94 68 .580 9 49-31 45-37 
Oklahoma vs. Hofstra, 6 pm 
Texas 83 79 .512 20 47-35 36-44 
CaiHomla 80 82 .494 23 42-39 36-43 
Notre Dame vs. LSU, 8pm 
Seattle 77 85 .475 26 38-43 39-42 
JACC
Kansas City 75 86 .466 27112 45-36 3().50 
Minnesota 74 88 .457 29 41-40 33-48 
Friday 

Football 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

5
Cross Country Notre Dame vs. Stanford
Eaat Dlvialon w L Pc:t GB Home Away 

Notre Dame Invitational Notre Dame Stadium, 12:10pm 
x·Pittsburgh 95 67 .586 49-32 46-35 
New York 91 71 .562 4 52-29 39-42 
Burke Golf 1-4pm

Montreal 85 77 .525 10 47-34 38-43 Chicago 77 85 .475 18 39-42 36-43 Philadelphia 77 85 .475 18 41-40 36-45 St. Louis 70 92 .432 25 34-47 36-45 
M & W Tennis:~==~~-...
J.~~.,:;;:==J~~=======~
Notre Dame ~s. Stanford 
Weal Divlalon 
Sunday
Eck Tennis Pavilion, 6pm 
7

w L Pc:t GB Horne Away 
x-Cincinnati 91 71 .562 46-35 45-36 
los Angeles 86 76 .531 5 47-34 39-42 
Irish Soccer Classic Irish Soccer Classic 

San F ranc:isco 85 77 .525 6 49-32 36-45 
W. Michigan vs. Creighton

Houston 75 87 .463 16 49-32 26-55 
Ohio State vs. W. Michigan, 12:30 
~ San Diego 75 87 .463 16 37-44 38-43 
Notre Dame vs. Ohio State Notre Dame vs. Creighton, 3pm 

Atlanta 65 97 .401 26 37-44 28-53 
x-ctinched division title 

~ 
Krause Stadium, 5pm & 8pm 
Moose Krause Stadium M & W Swimming Notre Dame vs. Stanford NFL STANDINGS 
Rolfs Aquatic Center, 4pm 
Volleyball Golden Dome Classic 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
EAST 
w L T Pc:t. PF PA Buffalo 3 1 0 
LSU vs. Hofstra
.750 92 75 
Miami 3 0 88
1 .750 57 
Notre Dame vs. Oklahoma
N.Y. Jets 2 2 0 .500 88 89
In dianapolls 1 0 58
3 .250 89 
JACC, 6pm & 8pm
New England 1 0 60
3 .250 119 
CENTRAL w T PF
L Pet. PA 
Baseball 
Cincinnati 
3 1 0 .750 103 74 Houston 2 2 0 

Notre Dame vs. Wichita State 
.500 77 84 
Cleveland 1 0 48
3 .250 85 
Coveleski Stadium, 8:30pm 
Pittsburgh 1 3 0 .250 32 70 
WEST w T PF
L Pet. PA L.A. Raiders 4 
0 0 1.000 75 35 Kansas City 3 0 98
1 .750 48 Denver 2 0 95
2 .500 97 San Diego 1 3 
0 .250 61 69 Seattle 1 0 .250 84
NATIONAL FOOTBAll CONFERENCE 

TRANSACTIONS LEAGUE LEADERS 
EAST w L T Pet. PF PA 

N.Y. Giants 4 0 AMERICAN LEAGUE
0 
1.000 106 47 
BASEBALL

Washington 3 0 101 Final
1 .750 51 
American league

Dallas Based on 450 at Bats.
1 3 0 .250 56 92 Philadelphia 1 0 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Named Richard M.
3 .250 91 95 

Phoenix 1 3 0 .250 118 Brown president and chief executive officer. G AB R H Pet.
40 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Announced they will Brett KC 142 544 82 179 .329 

CENTRAL w T PF not renew the contract of Chuck Adams, vice RHdsn Oak 136 489 1t9 .325
L Pet. PA 159 
president of pub~c relations.

Chicago 3 1 0 .750 53 Plmero Tex 154 598 72 191 .319 
TafTll'l Bay 3 . CLEVELAND INDIANS-Released AI Nipper, Trammell Del 559 170 
77 

1 0 .750 98 96 t46 71 .304
pncher..500 93
Green Bay 2 2 0 76 Boggs Bsn !55 6t9 89 187 .302 Detroit 1 3 0 .250 93 99 TEXAS RANGERS-Exercised contrad option EManinez Sea 144 487 71 147 .302 Minnes01a 1 3 on Nolan Ryan, pitcher, lor 1991. GrlyJr Sea 597 179
0 155 91 .300 McGriff Tor 
.250 89 69 153 557 91. 167 .300

FOOTBALL

WEST w CJames Cle 140 528 62 158
L T Pet. PF PA .299
National Football league0 1.000 38 164
San Francisco 3 0 58 Puckett Min 146 551 ·82 .298
NFL-Upheld the Indianapolis Cohs' decision toAtlanta 1 0 74
2 .333 67 
put Eric Dici<erson, running back, on the reserve­

L.A. Rams 1 Home Runa
2 0 .333 80 77 

non football injury list. 0 43
New Orleans 1 2 .333 52 Fielder, Detroit, 51; McGwire, Oakland, 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Toronto, 35; Gruber, 
ATLANTA FAlCONS-Released Gene Lang, Toronto, 31; BJackson, Kansas City, 28; AHenderson, Oakland, 28; Deer, Milwaukee, 27. Sunday'a gamea runn~ng back. Added Mke Rozier, running back, to Detro~ at Minnesota, 12 noon Runa Batted In
the active roster. 

Kansas City at Indianapolis, 12 noon MIAMI DOLPHINS-Piaoed Brian Kinchen tight Fielder. DetroH, 132; GTL•ber, Toronto, 118; McGwire, Oakland, t 08; JCanseco, Oakland, 101; New Orleans at Atlanta. 12 noon end, on Injured reserve. Re-signed Greg Ba~. tight Sierra, Texas, 96; Maldonado, Cleveland, 95; DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Burks, Boston, 89; Palmeiro. 
end.

N.Y. Jets at Miami, 12 noon Texas. 89; Trammen. Detro~. 89. 
San Diego at Pltsburgh, 12 noon San Francisco at Houston. 12 noon Pitching (15 Decisions) 
HOCKEY 

TafTll'l Bay at Dallas. 12 noon National Hockey League Weich, Oakland, 27-6, .818; Clemens, Boston, 21-6, .778; King, Chicago, 12·4, .750; Stieb, Toronto, Cincinnati at L.A. Rams, 3 p.m. NHL-Suspended Jeff Norton, New Vorl< t8-6, .750; BJones, Chicago. 1 1·4, .733; ARobinson, Milwaukee, t2·5, .706; Boddicl<er. Boston, 17-6, Green Bay at Chicago. 3 p.m. Islanders defenseman. lor eight games and Adam .680, 4 are tied with .667. 
L.A. Raiders at Buffalo, 3 p.m. Creighton, Chicago Blackhawks center, for""" Monday'a game games, lor separate stick-swinging Incidents In Cleveland at Denver, 8 p.m. exhibition games on Sept. 30. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE
OPEN DATE: N.Y. Giants, Phildelphia. Phoenix, Washington NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Sent Marc Bergevin Final
and Jarl Gronstrand, defensemen, to Caphal 

Based on 450 at Bars.
District ol the American Hockey League. COLLEGE
USA TODAY SUPER 25 PREP TEAMS 

ARIZONA STATE-Named Ed Yeager baseball G AB R H Pc:t.
McGee StL 
125 501 Murray LA 
rec:ru~ing coordinator. 76 168 .335 
EDINBORO-Announced the resignation o1 Mike 155 558 96 184 .330
Magadan NY 144
DeAnna, wrestling coach, effective Oct. 17. 451 74 148 .328
Dykstra Phi 149
Rank Prev. City, School State Rec:. Thia Week MINNESOTA-Suspended Marcus Evans, 590 106 192 .325
Dawson Chi 147 529
Rank tailback, for one game. 72 t64 .310
Butler SF 
1 1 Lawton Eisenhower OK 5-().() at Moore Westmoore PRAIRIE VIEW A&M-Named Luther Bool<er 160 622 108 192 .309
Grace Chi
2 2 Hazelwood East MO 5-().() St. Louis R~enour football coach. 157 589 72 182 .309
RobensSD
3 3 East St. Louis IL 5-().() Belleville East WESTFIELD STATE-Named Rick B..-ger 149 556 104 172 .309
TGwynn SD 141
4 6 Houston Aldine TX 4.().0 Houston Nimitz women's basketball coach; Dan Trant and Ray 573 79 177 .309 
5 5 3-{)-() Sandberg Chi 155 116 188
Fort Lauderdale Dillard FL at Miramar Arra men's assistant basketball coaches; John 615 .306 6 7 HyansviHe DeMatha MD 4.().0 Forestville Bishop McNamara KessingBI men's assistant cross country and track 
Horne Runa 
~ 7 8 Fontana CA 4.().0 San Bernadino Cajon coach; and Roben Casaceni men's assistant Perrbroke Purnell Sweet 
8 9 Rockingham Richmond Cty. NC 5-().() baseball coach. ~andberg, Chicago, 40; ~rawberry, New YOOI, 37; M~chell, San Francisco, 35; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 
9 10 LaGrange GA 4.().0 33, MaW•INams. San FranciSco, 33; Bon~la. Pittsburgh, 32; Gant, Atlanta. 32; Justice, Atlanta. 28. 10 11 Elizabeth NJ 3-().0 Union 
Morrow 

Runa Batted In
11 12 Louisville Trinity KY 5-().0 louisville Central 

12 15 Cleveland St. Ignatius OH 6.().0 MaWilliams, San Francisco. 122; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 120; JCarter, San Diego, 115; Bonds, 
13 13 Mobile Murphy 4.().0 Plltsburgh, 114; Strawberry, New YOOI, 108; Dawson, Chicago 100· Sandberg Chicago too·Cleveland Villa Angela St. Joe's 
AL at Pascagoula, MS BASKETBALL 
WaMach, Montreal, 98. ' ' ' ' ' 
14 14 Marrero Archbishop Shaw LA 5-().() N.O. Holy Cross National Bukebtlll Auoclation 
15 17 Upper St. Clair PA 4-().1 Canonsburg Canon·McMiHan CHICAGO BULLS-Signed CNII Levingston, Pitching (15 Decisions) 16 16 Pensacola Washington FL 4.().0 at Montgomery, Al lee forward, to a two-year contract. 
17 20 HarTf'lon VA 5-().() at HarTf'!On Phoebus HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed Jim Rowinski, Drabek, Pittsburgh. 22·6, .786; RMartinez, los Angeles, 20-6, .769; Tudor, Stlouis, 12·4, .750; 
18 19 Darwtn, Houston, 11-4, .733; Gooden, New York. 19-7, .731; Butkett, San Francisco, 14-7..667; 
19 21 Chicago Mount Carmel IL 5-().() Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667; Rijo. Cincinnati, 14·8, .636. 
J Detro~ Manin Luther King Ml 5-().() DetroH Kettering center, to a one-year contract. 
at Chicago Weber INDIANA PACERS-Signed Kenny Wiliams, 
20 22 Kent Kentwood WA 4-().0 Pullayup Rogers Darryl Johnson and Ke~h Gatlin, guards; Michael 
21 23 Carmel IN 6.().0 at Huntington North Cooper and Gary Plummer, forwards; and Greg LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES SCHEDULES 

22 24 Chattanooga Red Bank TN 5-().0 Chattanooga Baylor Wiffjer, center. 
23 25 Greenwood sc 6.().0 at Colurrbia lrmo NEW YORK KNICKS-Signed Jerrod Mustaf, 24 El Toro CA 4.().0 at Antelope Valley lorward, to a muliyear contract. Al CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES25 Wexford North Allegheny PA 5-().() at Butl..-PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Signed JOhnny Oakland Athletics (1 03-59) vs. Cincinnati Reds (9t·71) vs.4 Brockton MA 2·1.0 Dawklna, guard, to a muliyear contract. Signed Pittsburgh Pirates (95-67) 
Boston Red Sox (88·74)18 Los Angeles Carson CA 2·1.0 Ricky Green, Greg Harvey, Carlon McKinney, Game 1: Saturday at Boaton, 7:30p.m. Pirates lead aerie• 1.0. Kenny Travis and Luther Burks, guards; Mario Game 2: Sunday at Bo•ton. 7:20 p.m. Game 1: Pittsburgh 4, Cincinnati 3 Honorable Mention: Aurora Overland (CO), 5-o.O; Bakersfield (CA), 4.0.0; Bellport (NY). 2-Q-0; Butler and Dean Kriebel, forwards; and Brian Game 3: 1019 at Oakland, 2:30 p.m. Game 2: Friday at Cincinnati, 2:20 p.m. Middletown (OH), 6.0.0; Mishawaka Penn (IN). 6-0.0; Pittsburgh Perry TradHional Academy (PA), 4·0. 
Rahilly, forward-center, to one-year contracts. Game 4: 10/10 at Oakland. 2:20p.m. Game 3: 1018 at Pittabwgh. 2:30p.m.0; Ruston (LA). 5-0-0; Silver Spring Springbrook (MD), 4-Q-0; Walpole (MA). 3-0.0; Wellsburgh Brooke Continental B..ketball A..oclatlon Game 4: 1019 at Pittabwgh, 7:20p.m.
Game 5": 10/1 1 at Oakland, 7:20 p.m.
(WV). 5-().0. 

LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed BlA Martin, Game 6": 10/13 at Boaton. 11:20 a.m. Game s•: 10110 at Pittsburgh, 7:20p.m. forward. 
Game 7': 10114 at Boston, 7:20p.m. Game 6": 10112 at Cincinnati, 7:20p.m. SAN JOSE JAMMERS-Signed JOhn Trazvant, Game 7": 10113 at Cincinnati, 7:20p.m. torward. • I necessary AU times Notre Dame 

Friday, October 5, 1990 
SMC drops one to IUPU 

By LYNN BRAGG Sports Writer 
An inconsistPnt Saint Mary's CollngP vollnyball team bowed to an overpowering l.U. P.U. at Fort Wayne in three sets, 3­15,8-15,7-15. 
" I.U. P.U. at Fort Wayne is the top division II school in the area. " statPd coach SuP Medley. "At points in the match we played wry well against them. but we were inconsistent and couldn't capitalize on thnir errors." 
Medlev felt that there were too many mental errors with Saint Marv's serves and passing. She also said the Belin's defensP in the back-court was not up to par. 
"They (IPFWI attacked us and we didn't adjust our dn­fense," said Medley, who felt that Fort Wayne's aggres­sive outside hitters, Julie Huber (10 kills) and Temple Swoverland (14 kills) were the main antagonists to Saint Mary's defense. 
Overait. Medlev was pleased with the piay of Saint Mary's. "The scores don't reflect the game," said Medley, "as a team we played mueh better and we had a lot more intensitv and confi­dence." • 
Saint Mary's College will play in the Wisconsin Whitewater tournament this weekend. 

The Observer page 17 
AP Phor:l 

om Prince {14) of the Pittsburgh Pirates slides safely into third base as New York Mets th1rd baseman Tom 'Malley dives to make the late tag in Monday night's game. The Pirates defeated the Cincinnati Red 4-3 last night in the opening game of the National League Championship series. 

SNEAKERS 
Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Five T.V.s 
* 
Basketball Shoot 

* 
Three Dart Boards 

* 
Nightly Specials 

* 
Pizzas/ Sandwiches/ Appetizers 




* DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night ND 
* Conveniently Located Just Off Campus 
* 
Come Watch the Irish Beat Stanford 

* 
Show Student ID and Receive 10°/o Off Food Everyday 


Located in University Lanes -1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 
I think that this game will be a challenge for us.
Soccer 
"We're going to give Andrea Kurek an opportunity to shut
continued from page 24 down Stenholt. It seems to me kind of stats that Stenholt has. that if we can stop Stt>nholt. WP can stop that team from scar-
kl 

Happy 21Sf 81rt ay Rachel Brochert!! 

•~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Creighton's offensive corps has
-amassed 164 shots, 107 shots 

r-----------------~
SNEAKERS I 
I $3.00 I I OFF I I Any Large Pizza : 
Excludes all other Discounts 1 Expires 10/31/90 1 
------------------l 
on goal, 32 goals, 19 assists. and 83 total points. Four play­ers -midfielder Karen Kopp and forwards Jill Thurman, Gretta MatthPws and Allison Dunham -all have five goals apiece. Two other Creighton players have each scored four goals. 
On defense. the Lady Jay goalkeeping tandem of Denise Zaver and Lori Kwapiszeski has a GAA of .715 (six goals allowed, 92 shots saved). 
"I think that as far as Creighton is concerned. we are two pretty even teams," said Petrucelli. "Thev have been scoring lots of goals, and they will be a really good test for us. This is the kind of game we've ing. They don't have a great deal of balance in their goal scoring. The game should come down to seoring and whether we finish our offensive chances." 

Could the Irish possibly trip themselvPs by looking past Lewis to Creighton? Not likely. 
"Looking ahead of Lt>wis is a concern of mine," stated Petrucelli. "We seem to struggle on days when we come right out of class onto the field. But I also think that these kids are starting to mature. I don't think that this is a group of freshmen any more. They have 11 games under their belt, and they are really maturing. I am concerned. but I hope that we have overcome all that." 
The Lady Jays of Creighton, on the other hand, not only have a high-powered attack. but also possess an airtight de­
reg~e~r its first ten games. 


team that is evenly matched with us." 
Any concerns about an Irish squad whirh has seemed to have troublf' in the second games of doubleheaders? 
"We have struggled all year on thP second day when we play games baek to back like this," confessed PPtrucelli. "Coming out flat is a concern, but I thir,k. that playing at home will help. as will the fact that they are ranked ahead of us. That should give us motivation." 
Yet while the Irish have been enjoying a good measure of success thus far this season. they have again bPen struck by a plaguP of injuries. 



---------------~-------------------------.........­
Friday, October 5, 1990
page 18 The Observer 
Notre Dame kicks off Soccer Classic against Ohio State 

,' 
Western Michigan and Creighton to meet Irish as 'Weekend of Champions' moves outdoors 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will host the four-team Irish Soccer Classic this weekend, meeting Ohio State at 8 p.m. Friday and Creighton at 3p.m.Sunday.
Western Michigan will be the fourth team participating in the Classic and the Broncos will square off against Creighton at 5 p.m. Friday and Ohio State at 
12:30 p.m Sunday. All of this weekend's soccer matches will be held at Krause Stadium. 
The Irish come into this weekend looking to get back on track. They have gone 0-3-1 since a 6-0 triumph over Valparaiso on Sept. 17; in fact, they haven't even scored a goal since that victory. Coach Mike Berticelli is not really con· cerned, though. 
"Our problem is that the ball is too big and the net is too small," Berticelli jokes. "Seriously, though, it's not that big of a problem. Soccer is not necessarily the type of game where you score a lot of goals. We have an inexperienced team with no returning goal-scorers 
Jacobs 
continued from page 24 
said Jacobs. "I'm iucky I got the chance to play both sports." 
Irish head coach Pat Murphy is definitely another person who is satisfied with the results of Jacobs' tough choices. 
''I'm glad he's not playing tight end tonight," said Murphy, almost jokingly. 
On the more serious side though, the Irish skipper felt that Jacobs silenced some of his critics. 
"Alot of people said if he didn't sign [with the Astros) now, he wouldn't get another chance to play pro ball," Murphy said. 

W~eekend,of ft 
hamplons 
L-----------~--------~ 
other than Kevin Pendergast, 
so we're not a team that is 
made up of goal scorers. We 
are just going to have to con­
centrate on keeping organized 
defensively." 

Berticelli also notes that his 
team's 2-6-2 record is due to a 
difficult schedule rather than 
poor performance. 

"People have to realize the 
fact that we had one of the 
toughest schedules in the coun­
try in September. Indiana, 
Duke, North Carolina State, 
and even Wisconsin in the be­
ginning of the year were all top 
20 teams. I don't think that as 
an inexperienced team we have 
to look at each game individu­
ally. Instead, we are going to 
have to look at the season as a 
culmination of individual 
games," Berticelli says. 
Ohio State will present the 
next challenge for the Irish. The Buckeyes started the sea­son strong, winning their first three games, but have been in a slump of late, dropping five of their last seven. Although his team may be catching the Buckeyes at a good time, Berticelli is cautious. 
"They're always a very com­petitive team. They work very hard, they are physical, and they are very aggressive. The difference is that they have more talent this year than in the past. They have a freshman by the name of Carl Lombardo who is very dangerous and dy­namic. He really adds another dimension to their team," Berticelli says. 
Lombardo (four goals, five assists this season) will lead the Buckeye attack, as will se­nior Angelo Catenacci (three goals, three assists). 
Creighton, meanwhile, is un­beaten coming into this week­end. The Blue Jays (9-0-1} are in their first year of varsity competition, so they will field a very young team this weekend. Their record is deceiving; they have won many of their games 
Happy Birthday Vicky (" Buzzer ") 


Ourprimeribis 
gradedonthecurve. 
$11.95 perperson. A lot of restaurants may be able to get top-grade prime beef. But nobody can serve it up like Marriott. Our chefs haveyears ofexperiencein turning choice cuts of beef into your favorite choices on the menu. Tender, juicy, full offlavor, 
and served with a fresh garden salad. All for just $11.95. Once you give us a try, the results will be written all overyourface. 
SOUTH BEND 
~rr1ott. 
121 North St Jowph Sl.--t. Souch ~.lndi&n.~ 46b01 (111Jl 114-2000 

MARIGOLD MARKET 

against teams like Concordia and Bradley. 
Freshman Keith DeFini (13 goals, 13 assists} will lead the the attack for Creighton, which has outscored opponents 41-7 this season. Freshman Kevin Doyle, who has a goals-against average of 0.58, will likely start in the net for the Blue Jays. The game will be televised nationally on tape delay on SportsChannel America. 
"They've got a young team, with some talented kids. What Creighton did was hire a coach the year before they started their program and gave him some time to recruit. As a re­sult, they got a lot of good, young players. They've got a great nucleus there and a good foundation on which to build a program," Berticelli says. 
Berticelli says he hopes this weekend can be a turning point for his own young team. 
---· 

Friday, October 5, 1990 
The Observer page ·19 
Notre Dame women's tennis accepts Cardinal challenge 
Irish bring out the big guns for top-ranked and seven-time NCAA tennis champion Stanford 
national championship. It is of the top 11 singles players in collegiate tennis, will take on 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
unlikely that anyone will stop the nation, as well as the top Notre Dame freshman Christy 
Sports Writer 
A big showdown will go down at Eck Tennis Pavilion tonight between the Notre Dame women's tennis team and the Stanford Cardinal. Notre Dame will be ready to shoot, with several surprisingly big guns. Unfortunately for the Irish, top-ranked and seven-time NCAA champion Stanford has brought numerous cannons to the duel. The Cardinal's sheer firepower could make this contest look like a massacre. 
The reign of the Stanford 
-\~~end'~ 
~hampionslfo 
women's tennis team over the collegiate ranks began nine years ago. In 1981, the NCAA held its first women's tennis championships. The Cardinal won. There have been eight NCAA championships since. Women from Stanford have captured six. In 1991, the Cardinal will almost undoubtedly win another them. 

Stanford coach Frank Brennan carries a 250-29 ca­reer record into the match. His 12 years in Palo Alto earned him the ITCA/Wilson Intercollegiate Coach of the Decade award. A graduate of Indiana University, today's con­test is a sort of homecoming for Brennan. 
Stanford will carry a 65­match winning streak into Eck. The Cardinal have not lost a team match in the last two sea­sons. They have won five con­secutive NCAA championships. The team has on its roster four 
doubles combination in women's tennis. 
However, the deadly doubles team of nationally top-ranked Debbie Graham and second­ranked Sandra Birch will not be 
in action. Though 1990 NCAA champion Graham will compete in singles, Birch, the 1989 NCAA singles champion, did not make the trip to Indiana due to scholastic commitments. 
Number-one singles matches resident superstar Tracey Barton against Graham. At number two, Stanford's Teri Whitlinger, ranked seventh in Faustmann. The number-three 
and four spots are also filled by 
Irish freahmen. Terri Vitale will 
face off with Stanford frosh 
Laxmi Poruri, ranked 11th in the nation, at number three. At the four spot, NO's Lisa Tholen will play Stanford's Heather Willens. The five and six players are not yet clearly cut for the Irish, but will be chosen from the group of senior Kim Pacella, junior Kristy Doran, and Sophomore Melissa Harris. Stanford will play Marlo Carruth at number five, and freshman Emma Woodhouse at number six. 
Hey ND/SMC Students... This is your last chance to make a Logan Center client smile ••• Donate your Stanlord Tickets so ND Football's biggest Ions can watch the game in person. Drop-oH Pts: Dining Halls tonight Logan Center Mailbox at CSC or 444 Lewis, J37 Dillon, 290 LeMons Questions:Janet 284-5090 Sally 283-3783 
SOUTH BENo•s FAUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-WEEKL V SPECIRLS-
Rnd ••• of course.••THE BEST 
lJ.!Jl£ pJJJSJUtC Uft:!J 1!JlJJN 
THIS FRIDAY and SATURDAY: 
OLIVER SYNDROME 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
fhPinsJI-,.._.. 
6 Foot Party Subs Available For Tailgating-ORDER NOW 
Al-60 FoR Del-lvE.RY 
C-ATHOLICS 
VS. 
comm 
III 
T -Shirts and Neon Hats 
TAn:NO~-­
With purchase of a party sub receive a free t-shirt. 


contacted by The Observer over the past two days. 
What is certain is that the team will play in this weekend's 
Lambert 
continued from page 24 
Golden Dome Classic. The Irish will meet Oklahoma at 8 p.m. 

cooks ;ust for you__ Delicious food prepared in the Southem Italian manner. Featuring Fettuccine Alfredo, Manicotti, and Veal Pannagiana.. For festive occasions check out Parisi's Italian Style dinners, includes everything but the gondala.. 
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4-9 P.M. 
DINNER 
4 P.M.-11 P.M. Closed Mon. Open Sun. til 9 
219-232-4244 
South Of Notre o..... · Golden Dome 1412 Soulh Bind Averue 
~~ 

~ri'P'P1/ '891n~r111 
11=-tB' 

~~.P. ~~ 

~t!!.. ND·SMC 
~~ ~~ STUDENTS
fiJI~:·~  18th Annual Program  
t!ondon  Rome  
May 22-June 2 1  June 1-6-July 15  
Travel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  

Scotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in 

ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, JUSTICE EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN 
MEETING Monday Oct. 15 7:00pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza **Past student and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Friday, Hofstra at 10 a.m. Saturday and LSU at 8 p.m. Saturday. 
What is uncertain is who will call the shots on the Irish bench. If Lambert is out, then 
assistant coach Maria Perez 
would probably take over the 
duties. Lambert's son. Greg, is 
the other assistant coach. 
The final event in this esca­

lating ordeal apparently came 
after the two losses last week­
end. The Irish lost in straight 
games to Penn State and Miami 
(Ohio) by combined scores of 
90-36 to drop to 5-7 on the 
season. The Miami loss took 
less than one hour and the 
Irish had negative hitting 
percentages in two of those 
three games. 
"I have nothing to say," 

Lambert said after Saturday's 
debacle. "What can I possibly 
say?" 
Lambert came to Notre Dame 

in 1984 and has an overall 
record of 127-86. He led the 
Irish to their first-ever NCAA 
Tournament berth in 1988 
after compiling a 19-12 record. 
But Notre Dame struggled 

last season, finishing with a 
14-17 record. The Irish have 
also struggled throughout 
most of this season. 

lllJY IT 

· FOR h'l'lll· (,\USE~~ 




Friday, October 5, 1990
The Observer
page 20 

' ~ 
Fall season 
nears close for women golfers 

l 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's 

golf squad will travel to the Oak Club of Genoa in DeKalb, Ill., Sunday for the Northern Illinois University Invitational. The Irish will play 96 holes over two days in the tournament. 
Coach Tom Hanlon seems happy with his team's progress thus far in the fall. 

! 
"We are very encouraged by our play this season, and we're looking forward to this tournament." Hanlon says. "We're improving every week. We were only one shot behind Northern Illinois after two rounds last weekend (at the Michigan State Spartan Invitational), so I think we're 
playing pretty well." 

'I The toughest competition for the Irish in the 10-team tour­nament will come from Northern Illinois, Illinois State and Kansas State. The Wildcats are the team which seems to in­trigue Hanlon the most. 
"We've never played in a

' 
'• tournament with them," Hanlon 
I 
~· says. "They're in a little better ·i geographic location than we are, so there's a good possibil­
J ity they might do well." 
Seniors Pandora Fecko and Roberta Bryer and junior Allison Wojnas will lead the Irish into the tournament this weekend. Sophomore Kathy Phares will also be expected to shoot well. 


"Kathy is doing a really fine job for us this year," Hanlon says. "She has taken up where she left off last year as a top performer. We're getting good play out of our upperclassmen, too, and freshman Chrissy Klein is playing well for us, too. 
Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 

~· 
' 
~ 
I l 
~ 


~ 
I 
~0, 

.{ ~ 
1 ~ 
Off-Campus, Farley take early lead in lnterhall play 
By CHAD WISHCHUK 
Sports Writer 

The 1990 women's Interhall football season is only three weeks old and yet there's a championship fever in the air. Stormy skies wiped out Wednesday night's slate of games for the twelve-team league but failed to dampen the competitive juices. 
Halfway through the short season the race for the playoffs remains tight. The intimidating Off-Campus team shares the hold of first place with the exciting Breen-Philips Hall, both with an unblemished 2-0 record. Farley Hall, Lewis, and Pasquerilla West are closely clawing at the league-lead­ers, all at 2-1. 
The games on Sunday, September 30 featured last­minutP hPrnir.s and nail-bit­ing action. Sigfried, Farley, Lewis and defending cham­pion Howard, all recorded six-point victories, but it was Off-Campus' overtime thriller over winless Lyons 
and Breen Philips' 6-0 shutout of ill-fated Walsh that caught the attention of the lnterhall football bowl 
#s=c=ou=t=s.=W=i=th=t=h=es=e=t=w=o=g=a=m=e=in=th=e=fi=rs=t=h=a=lf.====tt : 
Men's Hairstyling 

I YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, I
ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 
SORBtE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYlf SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
WMRD's 
Restaurant & Lounge FREE FOOD DURING MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL and DURING NOTRE-DAME and BEARS TELEVISED GAMES 
LIVE ROCK·N· ROLL THURSDAY..SUNDAY this week featuring: CHAMPION 
giants pitted to meet at 7 
p.m. Wednesday the lOth, Cartier Field officials are bracing for the ensuing fire­works. 
The "Black Plague" of Off­Campus got a scare of their own from a tired-up Lyons squad. The game see-sawed up and down the field for the entire forty minutes of regu­lation without a point on the board. Not until O.C.'s initial possession of the extra pe­riod when Jill Bodensteiner danced into the endzone on a quarterback sneak from the two did the game see a score and that decided it, 6-0. 
Michelle Richards, the fast-talking captain of the high-powered Off-Campus team was excited with the outcome. 
"Tonight was the first time we really played like a team," she said. "I think we are improving everytime out there and that's the most important thing. We're hav­ing alot of fun." 
Two individual highlights keyed Breen Philips to a slim victory. Kristy Alkidas took a pitch and blasted 98 yards for the lone score of the 

: WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? I 
1 Haircut, Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition : : Reg. $15.00 1 I Now $8.50 with 1 
I I
coupon

1 
1

I MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1 I 272-0312 277-1691 1 I 54533 Terrace Lane I I Across from Martin's I 

CC to host National Invite 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The eighth-ranked Notre Dame men's cross country team will face its third test of the season when it hosts the 35th annual Notre Dame Invitational this afternoon on Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Invitational will consist of four races, with the Irish men racing at 2 p.m. against 16 competitors, including nationally-ranked Pitt and Virginia, and defending Division II national champion Edinboro. 
The Irish enter this meet rid­ing on the momentum of their first-place finish in last week's National Catholic Invitational and their recent boost in the national rankings. The team has a strong chance of besting its second place finish in last year's ND Invite, but will face an extremely tough field in its effort. 
"I think Edinboro will be re­ally good," said Notre Dame senior captain Mike O'Conner. "This is one of their only Division I meets, so they'll def­initely be ready to run. Virginia 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
I Th c I & c 
I

1 e aSt e 0 • 1 
1 I 
I 

and Pitt are both great teams also. They both deserve to be in the top 20." 
Irish Head Coach Joe Piane agreed with O'Conner. 
"Pitt just won the Penn State invitational, and Virginia just won their own invitational. Edinboro is the defending Division II national champion, and four of the top five Division III schools in the country are also competing. We also have the number-two team in the NAJA, Malone College, compet­ing. It's a pretty good field." 
Neither Piane nor O'Conner expects much competition from Central Michigan, the defending champion of the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"The coach (of Central Michigan) transferred to William and Mary and took four of his best runners with him, and graduated two others," explained O'Conner. "They were completely devas­tated." 
Also working to Notre Dame's advantage will be O'Conner's return to top racing condition. O'Conner, who had been suffering from a sore hip flexor before last week's meet. 

FOOD MENU: 

FROM MUNCHIES to PRIME RIB, PIZZA, BURGERS.... carry-outs available NIGHnY SPECIALS : WED. $2.00 take a trip to the baseball mound! 
1516 N. IRONWOOD DRIVE . BETWEEN S.R. 23 AND EDISON ROAD WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF CAMPUS 233-7747 
Friday, October 5, 1990 
The Observer page 21 
Men's tennis braces for Stanford 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
Dynasty. It's a level that only a few collegiate teams achieve, but the Stanford Cardinal men's tennis team, winner of the last three NCAA national championships, must be in­cluded when considering such great traditions. When the Cardinal faces the Irish today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, look for their dominance to continue, de­spite playing without the best singles player in the na­tion, sophomore Jonathan Stark. 
Although playing a team of Stanford's caliber, Irish head coach Bob Bayliss rel­ishes the chance to go up against the best team in the nation. 
"I'm excited about the op­portunity to test ourselves against this quality of oppo­sition," said Bayliss. "This will be a very high quality of tennis. Stanford is the team against whom all the rest of us are measured year after year." 

Stanford will be without the services of Stark, who is recovering from a foot stress fracture, at singles, but he will team with sophomore Jared Palmer in the doubles competition, where the duo is presently ranked first. 
Palmer, ranked in the top 12 in the nation, will face Irish All-American David DiLucia, currently ranked 10th nationally, at number one singles. 
Although the junior from Norristown, PA will not be able the top player, DiLucia, who defaulted from last week's Texas All-American Tournament with a pulled hamstring, will still have his work cut out for him. 
"Dave's ready to play," said Bayliss. "He knows what he has to do to win." 

After suffering the stress fracture in the spring, Stark was on the road to recovery before aggravating the in­jury at the end of the spring. Whereas most of the top players compete on the ju­nior circuit during the sum­mer, Stark did not play at all. 
Alex O'Brien, a junior form Amarillo, TX, and also in the top 12 nationally, will face Irish sophomore Chuck Coleman in the number two singles match, while senior Glenn Solomon (Rosyln Heights, NY) battles Notre Dame sophomore Mark Schmidt (Atlanta, GA) in third singles matchup. 
The Cardinal. winners of four of the last five national championships, are equally as awesome in the doubles bracket, where Palmer and Stark (1st in nation) will team up against the Irish duo of DiLucia and Coleman (14th in nation) in what should be one of the best matches of the evening. 
Notre Dame men's team travels to Valparaiso Invite 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame men's golf coach George Thomas will attempt to set his lineup when the Irish travel to Valparaiso today for the 18-hole Valparaiso Invitational. 
Top Irish golfers Joe Dennen, Mike O'Connell, Paul Nolta and Chris Dayton will not make the trip because Thomas is trying to see what some of his less­experienced players can do. 
"We're going down to Valpo with what you might call our second team," Thomas says. "We're trying to sort out who is the best among that second group of golfers. trying to find out who is the best under the gun on that second team. 
"It's always easy to tell who your top golfers are. When you get down to the fourth, fifth and sixth spots, though, it gets a little bit tougher. I can em­pathize, with those guys, too, because that's the position I was in when I played at Purdue, but we have to get that lineup 
set now, because it's really 
hard to do that in April." 
Thomas is very pleased with 
the progress he has seen in the 
men's golf program. He says he 
is pleased that the scores have 

steadily decreased since he took 
over as coach in 1988. 
"For Notre Dame teams, we are at least respectable. It takes time to build a team. It's tough to find blue chippers who want to come to northern schools. The people who want to be on the tour usually want to go to Sun Belt schools, and they usually can't do the job academically, so we don't get a lot of them," Thomas says. 
After the Irish get back from Valparaiso, Thomas will take Dennen, O'Connell, Dayton, Nolta and one other golfer to the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships in Middletown. Ohio. Notre Dame will play a practice round on Sunday, and then will play 54 holes total on Monday and Tuesday in that tournament. 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
"This win was a great impe­tus for the rest of the season," said Murphy. "We feel like we can play with anybody." 
Notre Dame starter David Sinnes got the win for the Irish, going five innings and allowing three hits and two walks, while striking out five. Sinnes, who last season led all Division I pitchers with a 1.05 ERA, was a freshman All-America choice last year. 
Jacobs, a senior who is de­cided not to play football this season so he could devote all 
FALL COLORS OF BENETTON. 
GRAND OPENING 
Saturday, October 6th 
Benetton 
his time to developing his base­
ball skills, went 2 for 4 in the 
contest with 3 RBI. 
Not only did Jacobs close the 
scoring, but he. opened it as 
well. In the fourth inning with 
no score and Shockers star 
pitcher Kenny Steenstra on the 
mound, Danapilis singled over 
short. Jacobs followed by 
slamming a triple over center 
fielder Jim Audley's head, scor­
ing Danapilis from first. 
The scoring was largely a Danapilis-Jacobs affair, as Danapilis accounted for the other RBI when he singled up the middle in the fifth, scoring leadoff batter Mike Coss. Coss had doubled with two out to start the rally. 
"Mike Coss is the backbone of our team," said Murphy. "I feel like he's got the experience and he's going to do the job." 
The Notre Dame pitching staff shut down the Shockers, who last year hit a 13-year low .298 as a team and hit 43 home runs. Tony Livorsi took the mound in the sixth, pitching one and two-thirds innings and allowing three hits and one walk. Alan Walania inherited a first-and-second situation with two outs in the bottom of the seventh, but retired second baseman Billy Hall when Hall grounded out to first. 
The Irish pitchers were 
helped by sparkling defensive 
plays, especially by second 
baseman Cory Mee. In the first, 
Mee made a last-second dive on 
a ground ball by Chris Wimmer, 
robbing him of a hit. In the 
eighth, Mee robbed Wimmer 
again when he lept up and 
snared a line drive headed for 
right field. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Qema5tt1e
at n1te 
"A GENUINE TRIUMPH!" 
-V'oncml Canby, lliE NEW YORK TIMES 
"THE BEST MOVIE OF TilE YEAR!" 
-Bob Mondello, NATIONAL PIJBUC RADIO 
"THRRLLLNG!" 
-Michael Wilnlifl8lon. LOS ANGELES TIMES 
-David Edcbldn, NEW YORK POST -Damond ~ PHILWEIPiflA INQUIRER 
"****!" 
-Judy Slone, SAN FRANOSCO CHRONICU 
University Park Mall 


ABOLD NEW FILM BY KENNETH BRANAGH 

•
6501 Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219) 277~7358 

TONIGHT & SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 
*Located in Center Court 


Friday, October 5, 1990 
page 22 The Observer 
NO to host National Invite 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
"It's the best field we've ever had for the Notre Dame Invitational," says Irish women's cross country coach Tim Connelly. 
That seems to fit perfectly into the Weekend of Champions theme, as the Irish host the meet today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course beginning at 1 p.m .. 
Fifteen teams will be vying 
for the first place trophy, in­
cluding national standouts the 
University of Virginia, Ohio 
University, Michigan St., 
Purdue, Western Ontario, and 
Wisconsin-Osh Kosh. 

"Virginia is the class of the field," said Connelly. "They are better than Boston College, but not quite as good as Georgetown." 
Last week, the Irish improved dramatically, finishing a close second to Boston College in the National Catholic's meet. The Irish will pin their hopes on their top junior runners, Amy Blaising and Diana Bradley. 
Bradley ran well versus Georgetown in the first meet, but finished a disappointing fif­teenth in the National Catholics. Blaising turned in an impressive performance in the National Catholics, leading the Irish with a tenth-place finish and a time of 18:59.3. 
Irish swimmers to meet Cardinal 
By KEN TYSIAC helping his program is very 
Associate Sports Editor 

-Weekend of ' special to me." 
~ -Stanford's men's team will 
When the Stanford men's 
and women's swim teams visit Notre Dame this weekend, they will field star-studded squads which are second-to-none. 
There will be some pretty good swimmers on both Cardinal squads in the meet at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 4 p.m. today. The Stanford men won three NCAA championships in the 1980s and have finished no less than fourth in the country for the past nine years. The Stanford women's team can boast of some pretty fair athletes as well. 

•--~ \ feature some fantastic swim­
__ mers as well. World record 
1 holder Jeff Rouse is an NCAA 
hampions backstroke champion. 
Distance freestyler Alec 
And Summer Sanders. She Kostich participated in the was the national champion Goodwill Games this sum-in the 400 individual medley mer. And J.J. Frietgem, Matt and the 200 butterfly last Rodgers and Jason Plummer season. She also won three all should challenge for gold medals at the 1990 NCAA titles this year. Goodwill Games. All of these athletes will be 
And Janet Jorgensen, who staying in the residences of also participated in the Notre Dame swimmers and Goodwill games, the list goes spending the weekend with on and on. So why would them. It will give swimmers Stanford want to come all from both teams a chance the way to Notre Dame for a for new experiences. The meet. Irish will be able to swim 























Like Janet Evans, for in-"We've had so much sue-against Olympic-caliber ath­stance. Evans won the 1989 cess in the last 10 years that letes. And the Cardinal ath-
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Sullivan Award for being the I think it's great to be able letes will get to see a Notre nation's top amateur athlete. to share that experience with Dame football game in addi-
The Notre Dame men's basketball program will 
She holds the world record a school like Notre Dame," tion to swimming in a meet. 
be holding walk-on tryouts for the 1990-91 basketball team in three events--the 400-me-Stanford coach Skip Kenney "I want ofir team to expe­on Monday, Oct. 15th at 7 p.m. in the JACC Auxiliary ter freestyle, the 800-meter says. "Notre Dame is the rience a part of America and Gymnasium. 
freestyle and the 1500-meter type of school that could be Notre Dame football is part freestyle. And she won three great at anything it chooses. of that," Kenney says. "ThisThe Sailing Club will meet Tuesday, Oct. 9th. The gold medals in the 1988 (Notre Dame coach) Tim is our opportunity to do meetings are no longer held in the boathouse. Starting this Olympic Games in Seoul. (Welsh) is one of the all-time more than see the inside of a Wednesday they will be held in Room 205A O'Shag. All 
South Kore~a~·--------------~g~r~ea~t~g~u~ys~in~c~o~a~c~hi~·n~g=an~d~____h_o_te_l_r_o_om__.._"____________~ 
members should attend. 

Week-end Eucharist Schedule for Sacred Heart Church 
"I lanondoingmyr&uneonmyMat
Saturdav October 6: 

5:00 PM Rev Mark Poorman, C.S. C., Presider 
An makingMacm~h partofmyr&une."
Sunday October 7: 

8:00AM Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S. C., Presider 
10:00 AM Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., Presider 
Bob Reich 

11:45 AM Rev. Richard Warner, C.S. C., Presider 
Sophomon= Accounting Major Univmiry ofNotre Dame 
Products 
-Full Service Salon -Close to Campus -Tanning Bed $ 35/month 

A FREE Seminar for SENIOR YEAR NursingStudents

9 
Transition is a one-day program designed to help you make the transition from student toI professional. 
Saturday, October 27, 1990 


This no-cost seminar includes sessions, lunch and breaks. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging ior out-of-town participants at the Kahler Hotel. 
Sessions include: 
• Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 

lbere's a lot more to an Apple~ time-and for not-so-serious stuff, too.
• Coping Measures ior the Oncology Nurse 

Macintosh~ computer than just something to Having my own Macintosh is a big plus 
• Financial planning ior the Young 

make aresume look good. Sure, it's got the now, and Iknow it'll give me an edge in the real 
Professional 

capability to impmve the look ofpractically any world, too. I'll be able to interface my Mac with
• lnVitro Fertilization 

document. But once you get beyond Macintosh mainframes and MS-DOS~ computers and still
• Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

as just an elegant fonnatting tool, you begin to have the ease-of-use that Macintosh is famous 
• Discharge Planning for Senior 

understand why it's becoming so widely for. And that'll make me work better for Adults: Special Needs for 
accepted in the business world. My Mac® can whoever Iwork for. 
Special People 

crunch numbers with the best of them. It just Macintosh is going to make my resume
• Overview oi Organ Transplantation 

plain makes me more efficient in everything look better-in more ways than one.
• Preparing ior the Job Search 

Ido. That frees me up for serious book
• Technological Advances in 

NOTRI<:DAME
Outpatient Surgery 

COMPUTER STORE
Deadline ior rep,istration is Oct. 17, 19'10 

Office of University Computing
Call collect 507-286-7030 

Computing Center/Math Building
for registration information and 
Phone: 239-7477
brochure. 


Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
Transition is sponsored by 
Mayo Medical Center 


Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
An Atllfm,l/lvc• Ac llon!l:qu,!l ( Jpportuml> tmplcw!'r 

J
:l 
1'! 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
'J 
<1 
}~
\ 
~ i~ 
!.:( 
.,· 
" 

~I
~) 
) 
B 
~ 
'lj 
(I 
~

fj 
11 
~ 
r~ i~ 
)) 
.J
' f 
Friday, October 5, 1990 
The Observer 
page 2.3 

CROSSWORD 
.. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Friday 
12:15 
p.m. • 1 p.m. Discussion, Regina Coli, associate professional specialist of theology, "A 'Catholic Feminist': Oxymoron?" Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 

12:15 
p.m. Lecture, Gerd Langguth, representative of the European Communities, " Europe's Future Architecture and Germany's Role In It." Washington Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 


7:15 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. Film, "Henry V," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Black Rain," Auditorium, Cushing Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Saturday 
7:15 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. Film, "Henry V," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Perch Chili Crispitos Broccoli , Cheese and Rice Casserole Flank Steak Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Pot Pie Sweet and Sour Pork Baked Fish Dijonaise Deli Bar 

ACROSS 26 Type of 48 Tractable earthenware 
51 Churchill's1 Row 
29 Publisher-critic "-Finest 
6 Before surgery, 
Joel-Hour" 

in hosp. argot 
Spingarn: 53 Fuming11 Thud 1875-1939 
54 Peppery; testy 14"-inthe 31 A Guthrie in 
sa Coach-and-four Dark," 1982 film "Alice's 
59 Johnson ofRestaurant"
15 Chilling decathlon fame 32 Back another's 
61 Brickell and16 Scorpius promissory note 
Adams 34 British builder's 62 Turn right neighbor 

17 Hayworth title bar 63 Long series ofrole 37 Sanhedrin, e.g. woes 18 Wading bird 
39 Dilettante 64 Springarn 19 Soused 41 Photography Medal presenter 20 Peevish abbr. 65 Town on the Ouse
22 Angry 42 Most fit 66 Feline
24 Grapevine 44 "Artaxerxes" concern composer 67 Exalt 
45 Xinjiang oasis 1938 song 46 Encroachment DOWN 
25 "-Be Kind," 1 Flags 
2 Swindle ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Brotchen 
4Astar in "Rebecca": 1940 23 Footlike part 
5 Certain gallery 25 Filthy places 6 Italian sauce 
26Confront 7 Ballet 
27 Manglemovements 28 Jewish month8 Stoltz of "Mask" 30 Taradiddles

9 Balm base 33 Spanish stew
10Touchy 34 The mark of
11 Life raft sorrow

12 Heavenly butter 35 Pittsburgh
13 Roughened suburb

surface 36 Doing 
abnormally lean 38 Irritable 40Nag 


43 Beseech 
45 Belt 
47-Creed: 
A.D. 325 48 "Dies Irae" is one 49 Protruding window 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER 
50 Shrewd 52 Strong 54"-Die:" Gide 55 Predispose 56 Leaky, in 
Lubeck 57 Make out 60-rigueur 
(literally) 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 



The qla ss ;s 
hal f. empty. 


I S££ CR£N5HfiW Hfr.iN'I Ytf NOTJC£D 1!1E EsrR<Xi£N VI£ SLIPPED IIJT(J /tiS 
The four basic personality types 


•
• 



~,s,c

tJ\'v SUB MOVIES 
Now showing: 

• IY©!NJO@[f{]ll' and Saturaay, October 5 and 6: 
• 
• 
~~~©lk !Rl~ilrll starring Michael Douglas Show times: 8PM and 10:15PM. --Cushing Auditorium Tickets are $2. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------~----------------.-------~ 
Sports 
page 24
Friday, October 5, 1990 

Irish shock Wichita State 4-0 in opening game of twinbill 

Former football player Jacobs's mammoth home run results from correct decisions 

By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
Frank Jacobs has had quite a few tough decisions to make over the last few months. 
The Notre Dame senior turned down an offer from the Houston Astros, who thought enough of his combination of power and speed to make him a 15th-round pick, and the former tight end also decided not to rejoin the Irish football team in its pursuit of the na­tional championship in order to pursue baseball fulltime. 
About the only easy decision Jacobs has had recently came in the eighth inning of the baseball team's 4-0 win over Wichita State last night, under a full moon so bright that it probably could have lit Covaleski Stadium on its own. 
With the Irish up 2-0 and Eric Danapilis on first, Jacobs worked the count to 3-1 against Shocker reliever Morgan LeClair. Jacobs then decided to swing at the next pitch, which, when it re-entered the atmosphere, landed well over the 360-ft. mark in right­center field. 

"I knew he'd be coming with something hard," said Jacobs. "I was just looking for some­thing to drive." 
Well, he certainly found it. He was surprised when it cleared the fence, so surprised that he had already sped into second base when he realised that the shot was a home run. 
"I didn't get all of it," he said. "But I guess I got enough of it." 
What made the distance of the home run even more re­markable is that it was hit us­ing a wood bat, which usually do not generate as much power as the more common aluminum 
bats.  Wood  or  aluminum,  it  
doesn't  make  much  of  a  
difference to Jacobs.  

Lambert's future uncertain as volleyball team revolts 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
The future of Notre Dame volleyball coach Art Lambert remains unclear after Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal refused to comment Thursday night on the situation. 
The Irish coaching situa­tion --mainly the future of the embattled Lambert -­has been uncertain since an apparent revolt by team members following two losses last weekend. The team met with athletic department officials earlier in the week to air their concerns. 
"I don't really want to comment on the matter now," Rosenthal said when reached at his home Thursday night. "I'm sure we'll be commenting on that very soon." 

It would seem that the ath­letic department must say something by Friday night because the volleyball team is scheduled to host a four­team tourney in the Joyce ACC. 
Lambert declined comment when reached at his home Wednesday evening and was then unavailable for com­ment on Thursday. He did say that any decision regarding his fate at Notre Dame would come from Rosenthal's office before he made any public comments. 
Lambert had been on a re­cruiting trip early in the week, while Rosenthal had also been out of town. It is unknown if the two men met to discuss the situation on Thursday. 
Six Irish volleyball players also refused to comment 
see LAMBERT/ page 19 

"I feel pretty comfortable with wood bats," said Jacobs. "I used them last summer in my Great Lakes Region League." 
Jacobs also contributed an­other of Notre Dame's RBI's, easily motoring into third with a triple in the fourth inning that scored Danapilis yet an­other time. On the night, Jacobs was 2-4, with 3 RBI's on a HR and a triple. 
To his credit, Jacobs has few regrets about limiting his ath­letic escapades to the baseball diamond. 
"I'm sticking to my decision," 
see JACOBS I page 18 
Shockers gain split in nightcap, 9-7 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Stoking the embers of last year's slogan, the Notre Dame baseball team took "one more step" towards establishing it­self as a national contender Thursday night when it de­feated 1989 national champion Wichita State 4-0 at Coveleski Stadium. 
Wichita State salvaged a split by winning the nightcap 9-7. 
Starting pitcher David Sinnes combined with Tony Livorsi and Alan Walania to blank the Shockers on six hits in nine in­nings as Notre Dame took the first game of a doubleheader against Wichita State. The Shockers are playing the Irish in the fall in the spirit of "The Weekend of Champions" that gets underway in full today. 
The victory was just one more Notre Dame upset of a national power in the last two years. Two years ago, the Irish upset Miami twice in a two-game ex­hibition during the Miami foot­ball we.ekend. and during that regular season defeated Texas and Miami again. 
"We've done it before," said fourth-year Irish head coach Pat Murphy. ''I'm not suprised by the win. but I'm proud as hell of these kids. I just stood there and watched. I can't say enough about the great job they did." 
The Irish collected 10 hits off three Shockers pitchers, one being a towering home run by designated hitter Frank Jacobs. That blast. hit in the eighth in­ning with sophomore Eric Danapilis on first, provided two insurance runs that closed out the scoring. 
see BASEBALL I page 21 

Frank Jacobs hit a towering home run in the eighth inning Thursday night as Notre Dame defeated Wichita State 4-0 in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Lewis soccer team not to be taken lightly 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team will be hosting the Notre Dame Invitational as part of the Weekend of Champions sports spectacular. 
Scheduled to compete are teams from Dayton, Creighton, Lewis, and Notre Dame. The Irish take on Lewis at 4 p.m. on Friday afternoon before facing Creighton, the sixth-ranked team in the central region, at 4 
p.m. on Saturday afternoon. Dayton meets Creighton at 
1:30 p.m. on Friday, while Lewis meets Dayton at 1:30 
p.m. on Saturday. All four games are to be played at Alumni Field, which is adjacent to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
It is appropriate that the Invitational is being held during the Weekend of Champions, considering the level of competition. Dayton, who will meet Notre Dame in the first round of the MCC tournament, is a perennial contender. 
Lewis (3-5-1), a Division III school, boasts of a high quality program and should give the Irish quite a game. Creighton (7-3), aside from being ranked ahead of the Irish, plays a rig­orous schedule and will provide Notre Dame with an idea of how well they match up with the upper echelon of Division I soccer. 
As if the preceding entice­ments were not enough, the Irish team must still be consid­ered a maturing superpower in its own right. Notre Dame (8-2­1), in its third year of varsity play, is ranked seventh in the central region -the highest ranking yet achieved by an Irish team. 
"We have really been looking closely at these next three games against Lewis, Creighton, and Wisconsin­Milwaukee," remarked Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "I think that if we can win these three, we will find ourselves taking a jump in the poll and solidifying our position for the season. As we look around, these three games are very important for us." 
The lowdown on Lewis is simple: they score. Over the first eight games of the season, Stenholt, the top scorer on the Lewis squad has recorded 65 shots, 15 goals and two assists, for a total of 3 2 points. Meanwhile, three other Lewis players have combined to tally 75 shots, eight goals and six assists, for a total of 22 points. 
The Lewis defense, however, does not appear quite as solid at first glance. Goalkeeper 
Tammy  Policci  has  a  3.13  
goals-allowed-average  (25  
goals allowed, 64 saves).  

"Lewis has had a lot of in­juries recently," noted Petrucelli. "They started the season very well; they were a team that lots of people recog­nized as being good. The in­juries caused them to lose their momentum early on. We have not yet faced a player with thP 
see SOCCER I page 17 


