

VOL. XXIII NO. 105 THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
White House: Libya renews chemical weapon production 
Katherine McFadden (center) and Suzanne Fitzgerald (right) pay close attention to John Mulhern's presen­
WASJIINGTON (AP) -The White House said Wednesday that Libya has renewed produc­tion of chemical weapons, pos­ing "a major threat" and re­quiring "vigorous action" to shut down the plant. White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater refused to ex­ sidru'ed capable of or actually producing poison gas, which was used by Iran and Iraq in the Persian Gulf war. The latest U.S. charges un­derscore the hostile relation­ship between the United States and Libyan dictator Moammar Gadafi. Tensions reached a cri­ havior," Fitzwater said. "And therefore, that is the most im­mediate threat." In 1988, the United States raised concerns about Rabta and persuaded West German companies and other foreign suppliers to stop providing technical assistance. U.S. offi­ the chemicals are getting there or where they are coming from," Fitzwater said. "But there are so many routes, again I urge you, not to focus on who's giving them chemicals, but to focus on Mr. Gadafi and Libya." Gadafi, who has steadfastly  
clude the possibility of a mili­tary strike to knock out the poison-gas plant. "Wp, don't rule out anything," he said. However. Fitzwater also sug­gested the plant could be closed if foreign suppliers denied it the raw materials needed to pro­duce chemical weapons. "The international commu­nity should step up its efforts to deny Libya the ability to continue operating the plant," he said. Chemical weapons are con­sidered the poor nations' atom bomb because they are rela­tively cheap to produce and hard to detect. Libya is one of about two dozen countries con- sis point in 1986 when the Rea­gan administration ordered that Tripoli be bombed. Fitzwater said the United States was consulting with other governments to express serious concern about the facil­ity. The plant at Rabta, 60 miles south of Tripoli, is producing limited quantities of mustard gas and nerve agents, U.S. offi­cials said. "Rabta is dangerous and be­coming more so," Fitzwater said. "This points to the neces­sity for heightened interna­tional vigilance of Libyan pro­curement activities and for vig­orous efforts to stop the opera­tion of Rabta."  Moammar Gadafi Asked what he meant by "vigorous action," Fitzwater said, "We aren't willing to speculate on what specific ef­forts, but nothing is ruled out." He would not comment on the type or quantity of weapons being produced. "Any amount is a major threat," he said. Gadafi's regime has "a his­tory of terrorism activities and a history of erratic military be­ cials said then that Libya had stopped work on Rabta before reaching full production but maintained an assembly line. Fitzwater said production re­sumed recently, and West Ger­man politicians have said that Libya had produced enough gas for 1,000 artillery shells. Fitzwater declined to discuss which countries were supplying chemicals to Libya. "We certainly woul,d urge all countries to survey their inter­nal situation, to inventory their chemical production facilities and to make their own judg­ments that they are not a source for any of these chemi­cals. "We don't really know how  denied Libya was producing chemical weapons, says the plant was designed to produce pharmaceutical drugs. JANA, the Libyan news agency, said in a dispatch that an unnamed official source at the Libyan foreign ministry "disclaimed" reports that Libya has produced "quantities of chemical weapons in (the) Rabta medicine factory." The source, according to JANA. contended that "such al­legations aired at present by some media circles aim at cre­ating a state of suspicion" in light of efforts by Libya and other Arab African nations to­ward economic and political unity.  
Breen-Phillips team talks its  
way to Iceberg Debates title  
By JOE MOODY Assistant News Editor  will have more distractions by  time and less not being in­ 
volved  in  marriage  and  will  
In what the judges dubbed "a  therefore perform his duties to  
wonderful effort" by both sides,  God much more effectively.  
the _l~reen-Phillips  team won by  Suzanne Fitzgerald and Kate  
a narrow margin of 3-2 to de­ McFadden  spoke  for  Breen­ 
feat  Pangborn and claim the  Phillips  . Other team members  
1990 Iceberg Debate Champi­ were  Jennifer  Schlueter  and  
onship title.  Michael Coffey.  
Andrew  Scharfenberg  and  
The resolution for 'the final  John Mulhern spoke for Pang­ 
debate was "That the Catholic  born. Brad Newcomer and Jen­ 
Church should not priests to be celibate."  require  nifer McDougall were the other members.  
Competing for the $500 first  
prize,  Breen-Phillips debated  "Other teams tended to take a  
against mandatory celibacy,  more  technical approach. We  
while Pangborn argued for it. The affirmative side, Breen­ approached each debate. one at a time, as more of a discus­ 
Phillips, focused  on  the point  sion," said Fitzgerald. "We're  
that the sacrament of marriage  thrilled  to  have  won,"  she  
is  a  commitment and expres­ added  
sion  of love  for  God,  and  a  
priest could better counsel his  "The  primary  goal  of  the  
The Observer/ Dave Short  parishioners by experiencing this.  competition is increased stu­dent awareness of key local,  

The negative team, Pangborn, tation during the final round of the Iceberg Debates last night. argued that a celibate priest see DEBATE I page 4 
Switze~, Mixon win run-offs 
T1ght marg1ns charactenze class elections 
By SANDRA WIEGAND officers are Patrick Mixon. tween the number of ballots 
Assistant News Editor president, Dave Cathcart, vice cast for each of the two junior president, Molly O'Neill, secre­class tickets, Breen-Phillips did tary, and Robin Stumpf, trea­vote overwhelming for the 
By the narrow margin of 11 surer. Switzer ticket. In the dorm, 38 votes, the Switzer ticket won ''I'm overwhelmed," said of 40 votes cast were for the the junior·class election yester­O'Neill, "and excited because it Switzer ticket. Alumni and day. The sophomore ticket led was a close race." Flanner had high percentages 
by Patrick Mixon won by ap­"Lynn ran very well against of votes for the Coffey ticket. In proximal!dy 11 percent. us," Mixon said. Alumni, 53 of 60 votes were for 
Junior class officers for The winning junior class this ticket. 1990-91 are Jennifer Switzer, ticket received 50.54 percent of The Mixon sophomore class president, Steve Hanson, vice the votes, 514 of the 1,017 cast. ticket received 55.30 percent, 
or 590 of the total 1,06 7 votes
president, Megan Weyers, sec­"Well, it's certainly disap­retary, and Tim Thorton, trea­pointing, but it was a good cast. surer. race," said defeated presiden­Dorms with the most decided 
"Every one person who voted tial candidate John Coffey, "We support for the Mixon ticket made the difference," Switzer just didn't get quite enough were Knott, where 53 of 61 said. "I want to thank everyone votes. We'd like to congratulate votes were for the ticket, and who voted." Jennifer; I'm sure she'll do a Carroll, where 19 of 20 votes "It was a class operation," good job." were for Mixon. The Ramsay 
said Hanson. Although there were few ticket received 7 4 of 77 votes in Next year's sophomore class dorms with a wide margin be-Stanford. 

The Sophomore Class 
55.30% 
WEATHER  
Forecast for noon, Thursday, March 8.  
Lines show high temperatures.  
Yesterday's high: 36  
Yesterday's low: 13  
Nation's high: 91  
(McAllen, Texas)  
Nation's low: -18  
(lloulton,  Maine  and  
Saranae Lake, N.Y.)  
Forecast:  
Cloudy  today  with  a  
100 percent chance of  
rain. Highs in the mid­ 
FRONTS:  dle 40s. Cloudy tonight  
• •COLD  • • WARM  •• •STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  with a 70 .percent chance of showers and possibly a few thunder­ 

----·--------~-----~-~--------~---------------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The road turns 
here, but the 
trip isn't over 
Tomorrow will mark the end of an important part of my Regis Coccia life here at Notre Dame. 
That's the day my Managing Editor term as managing editor of this news­paper expires. It will 
be the end of four very good years I have spent at The --------­
Observer. 
The Observer has occupied my life since I set foot on campus in August, 1986. I've done a lot since then, and I plan to do a lot more. 
Before I left home to come here, many people said, "Enjoy college because it goes by very quickly." Were they right! It's hard to believe that four years have passed already. 
liard to believe, but nevertheless true. Now that I'm nearing the end of my time at Notre Dame, I wish I could have more time to enjoy it. 
But I'm not going to look back -yet. There's too much to look ahead to. 
Hight now, there's spring break. After that, the rest of the semester. Then gradua­tion, summer, a job (somewhere), new things to learn, new people to meet and new things to do. 
Only God knows where I'll be and what I'll do in the next 21 years, but the memories of this place will always stay with me. 
Clippings of my first stories in The Observer have become yellow with time, but my recollection of them is as fresh as the day I wrote them. I'll remember the fun I 
had as a reporter and editor, tracking down 
interviews and working late in the office. 
For the first time in four years, I can take a break from constant involvement with this paper. 
After tomorrow, I will no longer have to dash up six !lights of stairs several times a day, or stay in the office until 4 a.m. to help solve problems. 
No longer will I get called out of bed at 
5:30 to drive 50 miles to the printer because something was left behind. No more bleary­eyed attempts to stay awake during class because my duties at the paper kept me up all night. 
Will I miss it? No, but I will remember it fondly. 
I'd like to thank the people who have made this job worthwhile. First, I'd like to thank you, the reader, and the University community, because you're the reason I've done this job. Then I'd like to thank all the people who publish The Observer: my co­workers, who are also my friends, and The Paper, where this paper is printed. 
If I've made a contribution, however small, to improving life here in the last four years, then my time has been well spent. Thanks for the memories. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and this author hopes they are also those of The Observer. 

P 0 Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
Production News Ad Design Wendy Cunningham Paul Pearson Val Poletto Arnell Gallanosa Catherine Kane Lisa Gunsorek 
Ryan Roberts Viewpoint Accent Quinn Satepauhoodle Kevin Reisch Shonda Wilson Jeanne Naylor John Cronin Fran Moyer Kate Foster Katie McBride Spor1ll 
Molly Mahoney Systems au.lness Molly Schwartz Mike Kolar 
Gnlphlcs
Gilbert Gomez Monica Yant Bradford BoehmCaroline Clarke 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduc!lon nghts are reserved 
positions must be returned tomorrow, March 9. Applica-Of Interests are accepted at The Observer to publicize tions are available at the Student Government secretary's one-time free events of general interest. Deadline is 1 p.m. office. 
WORLD 

McDonald's Corp. plans to expand its fast-food At least 134 people wer~ missing We~nesday .after empire into Eastern Europe, taking advantage of demo-a boat carrying children returmng from holiday colhd?d cratic and economic changes sweeping the region. "We've with a freighter and sank into the Amazon Hiver, pohce been in Eastern Europe, so we're not reacting to recent said. The riverboat Andresito sank Tuesday evening near political developments there. We've been planning for this the Amazon port of Jquitos, 715 miles. northeast ?f Lima, area for years," McDonald's spokesman Chuck Ebeling police said. The boat had just left Iqmtos for Puntoyacu, said Wednesday. "But political developments there open a jungle village three days' journey away. up promising aspects for us.' 
NATIONAL 

A judge Wednesday refused to dismiss charges Kentucky became the 41st state to adopt a against Joseph Hazelwood after the prosecution rested its Martin Luther King Jr. holiday when Gov. Wallan~ Wilkin­case and the defense offered a new theory on why the son signed legislation before a jubilant erowd in the Capi­former Exxon Valdez skipper should be cleared. Attorney tol rotunda. The bill designates the third Monday in Jan-Dick Madson argued that Hazelwood should be acquitted uary an official state holiday and grants state employees of the charge of operating the vessel while intoxicated be-a day off with pay to commemorate King's birthday. cause he technically was not in control of the tanker when One in thr 1 , . . -. 
it went aground March 24. causing the nation's worst oil . ea peop e suffer pangs of guilt alo~gspilL with pangs.o~ hunger f~r a s~ack, a.nd ~ 1 percent s~Id 
A subway train derailed and smashed into a sup-they feel g~Iltwr que~lchmg thmr cravmg fo.r the ·~~nchws . W d d . g' r sh hour than cheatmg on their taxes, a survey has found. 1 he sur­
port bearn durmg e nes ay mormn s u . 1 d w. d d , · 
· "l'k d' " The crash kt'lled vey, re ease e nes ay, was conducted for Contmental 
sheanng one car 1 e a sar me can. B k' c h k f.. · · ,
· -d 1 ft trapped r0 r hours a mg o., t e rna er o Iwmkws, llostess Cupcakes and
three peopIe, mJured 162 an e some 1' • 11 11 A d' h

Ofli ·. 1 'd ·t th t 'd t · 1 the 21 years the o os. ccor mg to t e survey, 40 percent would rather 
tcm s sat t was e w?rs acct en ~ > • snack than shop; 18 percent would rather snack than Southeastern Pe!lnsylvama TransportatiOn Authonty has travel; 29 percent would rather snack than go to the operated the regwnal commuter system. movies; and 10 percent would rather snack than make love. 
INDIANA 

T~e Coast Guar.d station at Michigan City, Ind., John Mellencamp's song tribute to rural life, recetved the c~ll Sund,ty afte~noon _by a youn~ m.an who "Small Town," will take center stage in the state's sum-told officers his 33-foot cabm crmser was. sm_kmg and mer tourism campaign, Gov. Evan Bayh and tourism ofli­th~t ~e and_ thr~e other passeng~rs were gomg mto Lake cials said Wednesday. Miller said Mellencamp agreed to Mtchtgan wtth hfe pre.servers. Thts prompted a search by let the state use the song in return for a $5,000 donation rescue boats. and hehcopters that cos~ at least $28,000. to Farm Aid from the tourism department's promotions ~n Monday m_ght, the Coast Guard recetved an anonym?us budget. The ads will begin appearing in May in nearby ttp that the dtstres~ call was a hoax by New Buffalo. Htgh television markets such as Milwaukee, Chicago, St. Louis, School st~dents .. 1 hey were expected to be arratgned Louisville, Cincinnati and Cleveland. 
Thursday m Bernen County Court. 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March 7, 1990 
Volume in shares
Bad weather during the last week and a 
163.58 Million
half has sharply increased the number of overnight guests at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
According to Father Hichard Warner, coun­NYSE Index 
selor to Notre Dame's president and chair of the 
185.77 {/ .40 
executive committee which administers the facil­S&P Composite ity, the Center sheltered a record number of 155 

336.95 {/ .98 
people on one recent night. On an average night, 
Dow Jones Industrials the Center takes in 80 guests. 
2,669.59 {/ 7.21
Father Warner said that the Center provided lodging for 28,905 and 72,123 meals during its Precious Metals operations in 1989. An average number of 330 
Gold {/ $4.30 to $400.20 I oz. 
volunteers each month contributed 15,022 hours of work to the Center, serving 1,296 people in Silver{} .6¢ to $5.12 I oz. need. 
Source: AP 

The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1990 
.-----------------------------------'--, showers. Lows in the 
Pressure 
upper 30s. Partly sunny
~~§ [Til

® © ~ ~ tzl and mild Friday. Highs
" 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY · h 'ddJ 5()
L------------------------------------' m t e mi e s. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST Applications for Student Government cabinet 
ALMANAC On March 8: 
e In 1702: England's Queen 
Anne ascended the throne upon the death of William Ill. e In 1782: The Gnadenhutten massacre took place as some 
90 Indians who had converted to Christianity were murdered by militiamen in Gnadenhutten,. Ohio, in retaliation for raids carried out by other Indians. e In 1854: U.S. Commodore 
Matthew Perry made his second landing in Japan. Within a month, he concluded a treaty with the Japanese. e In 1917: The first of two 
Hussian revolutions began with 
rioting  and  strikes  in  St.  
Petersburg.  
e In  1965: The  U.S.  landed  

about 3,500 Marines in South Vietnam. 


---~--~--------~----------------------~---­

PIH'P of Roland Smith on the stemmed from larger concerns on parking access across from 
assault weapons from army
the library. JINOTEGA, Nicaragua (API "All the barrios have guns. 
-1!1­
'~ 1!1 li 
The chairs of the standing -Sandinista leaders say they'll They are all defending their committees on academic af-hand over the government on land." said Francisca Castile­
TOWNHOUSES 

fairs, administration, and bene-April 25, but their lo'cal forces blanco, a 52-year-old tortilla fits made brief reports. The Se-don't appear ready to hand vendor, showing off her new nate also voted for faculty rep-over their guns. AK-47.



For Rent 
resentatives to the Judicial Re-The army, a party organ, is High-ranking Sandinista offi­view Board, the Campus Life delivering truckloads of assault cials in Jinotega and Matagalpa

3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Council, the Board of Traffic rifles to civilians in Jinotega at first denied civilians were and Parking Appeals, and the and Matagalpa provinces who being armed. Administration and Faculty Af-live in the poor neighborhoods When confronted with evi­

Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
fairs Committee of the Board of the leftist Sandinistas regard dence, the officials asserted Trustees. as their "social base." they were creating a self-de­fense network to fend off pos­
•.

FEATURES INCLUDE: 
sible attacks by Contra forces 
that the Sandinistas have been

Security Systems 
battling for years.

-_Ihe Obset:ver__

Basements 
But they also acknowledged that guns are going to people
is looking for enthusiastic students to 

Rear Yards 
living on land confiscated after
fill the following positions: 

Washer & Dryer 
the 1979 revolution. areas the party regards as its grass­

New Construction 
roots. 

Good Neighborhood 
Assistant Production Managers 
The Sandinistas have said

I
Dishwashers 
they will "defend the conquests of the revolution," including
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
opposing any efforts to return

call 
land to previous owners and possibly other aspects of the 
statement to Joe Zadrozny by 5 p.m. Friday, 
March 9. For further information, contact 
conservative economic policies
Joe Zadrozny at 239-7471. 
of the new government of Pres­


232-8256 
at 283-3128. 
ident-elect Violeta de Chamorro.

,~ Ji\ 
Jit ~~ 
r--------------.----.-~--.-------------~-----­
Thursday, March 8, 1990 The Observer 
Faculty debates Athletic Board 
By KATE MANUEL 
NewsWnter 
Tlw question of who can rep­rPsPnt the faculty on the Ath­IPtic HPview Board provoked lpngthy discussion at last night's meeting of the !-<'acuity SPnatP aftPr Steven Fallon, as­sistant professor in the Pro­gram of LibPral Studies, pre­sPntPd two rPsolutions concern­ing nwmbPrship on the Board. 
Tlw first of these two resolu­tions ('OIH'PrnPd the difference bP!wPPn tlw mPmbPrship of the Board. as stipulated in its by­laws. and tlw actual nwmber­ship of tlw Board. Fallon's res­olution maintained that Ann Firth. who is currently a mem­bl•r of the Board rPpresenting tlw "faculty." is not an actual nwmlwr of Pither thP tPaching or tlw rPsParching faculty. 
Tlw SPIHttP votPd unanimously 
to changP tlw final form of the 
rPsolution to ohjPct to Firth's 
prt'SI'nCP and to rPQLWSt the 
administration to romply with 
tlw guidPiinPs for thP Board's 
rom position. 
Fallon's original first rPsolu­
tion also objPCtPd to the pres­Board. Smith, the executive as­sistant to the president, repre­sents the interests of the ad­ministration more than the in­terests of the faculty. according to Fallon. 
Further discussion estab­lished that Smith did teach one course per semester and that the executive assistant to the president has always been the secretary of the Athletic Review Board. 
Acrording to Morton 1-<'uchs, chairman of the Biological Sciences Department, Smith:s presence on the Board was more related to Fallon's second resolution, concerning who should be able to represent the faculty, than to the first resolu­tion. As it was accepted by the Senate, the rirst resolution made no comment on Smith's prespnce. 
Pallon 's second resolution maintained that deans are asked to act as representatives of the Administration and so cannot be expected to represent faculty concerns accurately. This resolution was tabled until the nPxt meeting. 
The concerns about Athletic HeviPw Board membership about student athletes, the length of sport seasons, fresh­man playing time, and Univer­sity excused absences. 
Several members of the Sen­ate reported on student-athlete difficulties, and there was a message to the Senate from the Freshman Year of Studies claiming that student-athlete problems were increasing, not decreasing. One faculty member said, "If we have an interest in educating students, including student-athletes, we have to make sure that excessive de­mands aren't made on them." 
Phillip Johnson. assistant di­rector of Security, made a pre­sentation to the Senate on the changes due to construction and on parking access. Johnson explained his presence by telling Senate members, "We meet one on one when there is a specific problem, we don't look at anything beyond this." 
He described the changed ve­hicle-registration system, using optical scan forms and roll­over data, and the "construction hot-line" to give faculty members information 
page 3 
The rUoo•onu>r/ 
Health snacks attract students 
Saint Mary's Student Government sponsors healthy snacks outside Haggar College Center, recognizing March as National Nutrition Month. Also, Shannon Walkman writes her suggestion to next year's administration while Olivia Porter (center) and Maureen Laury (left) look on. 
Nicaraguan civilians receive 
ish 



arOens 
Officials of the United Na­tional Opposition (UNO) say they won't dislodge peasants from land that is being worked, even if it was expropriated un­der Sandinista rule. 
Work up to 6 months 1n Bntam, Ireland, France, Germany, Jama1ca. Nevr Zealand, and Costa R1ca Counc11's Work Abroad Pro­gram, the only one of 1ts k1nd 1n the US. cuts through all the red lapel 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs, discount a1r fares, language courses, and more 
Council on lnt'l Educational Exchange 
(U.S Sponsor of the lnt'l Student I D. Card) 

-----~~~~--~---~---~ 
page 4 The Observer 

YOU DESERVE 
The Observer/ Dave Short 
SOME CREDIT.

Happy with resuhs 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. Mishawaka Jennifer Switzer and Patrick Mixon, respective leaders of the winning junior and sophomore class tick­

(219) 259-1981

ets --Switzer, Hanson, Weyers, and Thorton and Mixon, Cathcart, O'Neill, and Stumpf-sport smiles upon learning election results last night. 
-

Debate 
continued from page 1 

national, and international is­suns." said Iceberg Debate Chairman Matthew Thiel at the opening of the final round. 
Last night's judges were Michael Affleck, coordinator of justice and peace education at the Center for Social Concerns, Martha Atwater, Edward Kline, professor of English, Father Peter Hocca. assistant vice 
Poindexter's Iran-Contra trial finds jury 
WASHINGTON (APl-A jury of seven women and five men was sworn in Wednesday for the Iran-Contra trial of John Poindexter, whose lawyers were attempting to sharply curtail any damaging testimony from Oliver North, the government's leadoff witness. 
The jury was sent home for the day, after being selected from a pool of 45 people, as 
U.S. District Court Judge llarold Greene considered the question of whether to limit North's testimony. Jury selec­tion took just three days. as opposed to more than a week in the North trial last year. 
Many of the jurors said they had heard of North but knew little about Poindexter, his former boss whom many failed to rflcognize in the courtroom. 
The jurors include a bridal consultant. a university accoun­tant. a postal worker. a retired food-service worker and a housewife. One of the six alter­nate jurors is a retiree who got the Watergate scandal confused with the Iran-Contra affair. 
At a hearing, prosecutor John Barrett argued that North should testify that hfl saw Poindexter destroy a presiden­tial finding on Iran and that Poindexter forced North to lie about the Contras to Congress. 
Poindexter lawyer Stephen McNabb said North testimony on those two subjects should not be permitted because it was based on earlier testimony Poindexter gave Congress in 1987 under a grant of immu­nity from prosecution. 
At his trial last year, North testified that he witnessed Poindexter destroy then-Presi­dent Beagan's finding, which depicted the Iran initiative as a straight arms-for-hostages deal. 
BEFORE YOU CHASE AFfER SPRING BREAK 

president for Student Services, 


and Kathryn Ryan-Zeugner, as­sistant librarian. 
The Standing Committee in­cluded senior Sean Buckley, se­nior Tracy Burke, senior Jerry Duff. junior Ellen Feeney, ju­nior Joan Meissner. and sophomon~ Ashok Hodrigues. 
The Iceberg Debates were founded in the 1988-89 aca­demic year as an undergradu­ate debate competition on so­cial justice issues. 
Thursday, March 8, 1990 
.: . .. 
•11111111!!11111!!111111111•111111111111111!11 
============== 


COLLEG~, 
GRADUATE FINANCE PLAN 

Jordan's Auto Mall • • 609 E. Jefferson
• 
.
II 
catch the comedy of ~ 
LENTINI & RIGGI ~~ 
~~5
9:30 PM Thursday at 
NIGHTCLUB 

IWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII, 
TOGETHER FOR A 





SJ\1=1: 
CAMPUS 
r11~ 8 WAYS TO RUIN SPRING BREAK 

Sumnwr !ul"t-­Over 50.000 summer JOb opemngs at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Bustnesses. CrUise Lines. Ranches. and more tn the U.S.. Canada. Australia. and 20 other countnes. Complete dtrectory only $19.95. Don't watt 1111 after finals. Send to Summer Jobs, Drawer 36039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 60937 

Thursday, March 8, 1990 The Observer pageS 

Campus Life Council drops restrictions on Mexico trips 
By SANDRA WIEGAND The ban can be interpreted as Assistant News Editor offensive to Mexican students, he said. 
A proposal requesting a lift Singh said that if the pro­on the ban of student trips to posal is accepted by Tyson, Mexico has been unanimously Student Affairs will be more approved by the Campus Life accountable for its decisions CounciL regarding student sponsored 
In order to go into effect, the trips in the future, and for the proposal must be approved by extent that students are in­Father David Tyson, vice presi­volved in making those deci­dent of Student Affairs. The sions. proposal is being considered by Joe Cassidy, director of stu­Student Affairs now. dent activities, said there is a 
Trips to Mexico sponsored by long list of conditions which student organizations were Student Affairs must be as­banned by Student Affairs in sured of by the travel agent or December on the basis of the tour operator before a trip can language barrier, the possibility be approved. of illness caused by unsanitary The fact that the ban on conditions, expensive personal Mexico trips was imposed just costs, and the issue of personal as SUB was planning a trip to safety and security. Acapulco was a coincidence, 
Student Senate passed a res­Cassidy said. olution to lift the ban on the Singh said he was pleased grounds that trips should be that the topic had been ad­assessed on an individual basis, dressed first by the Student Se­and students should have input nate and then the Campus Life 
when the decision is made Council rather than taken di­whether their trip will be al­rectly to Student Affairs. lowed. "This is one of the first times "It's not right to ban the en­something like this has come up 
tire country," said Raja Singh, through the pre-set channels," board manager of the Student Singh said. The only problem, Union Board (SUB), which put he said, was the length of time forth the original resolution. the process took. 
SECURITY BEAT
Pizza Hut"Delivers on Campus 
MONDAY, MARCH 5 TUESDAY, MARCH 6 
2:30 p.m. Three residents of Knott Hall 9:45 a.m. A resident of Goshen re· 
reported seeing a suspicious black male ported that her wallet had been stolen in or around Knott Hall. The man en· from her purse in the bleachers of the tered Knott prior to the lifting of morning JACC sometime during the Kentucky parietals. Game. 
Fast, Hot and Free! 
3:05 p.m. Notre Dame Security were 3:58 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resident re· called to the scene of a one car accident ported the theft of cash from her wallet on Lake Road. The driver lost control of sometime between 5 and 11 :30 p.m. on 
the vehicle due to icy conditions and March 4. The victim's room was un· crashed into a tree. locked and unattended. 
5:20 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re· 4:25 p.m. A resident of ~een·Phillips ported the theft of cash from a wallet on reported the theft of cash from her un· his desk sometime between 12 and 6 locked and unattended room. 
p.m. on March 2. The victim's room was unlocked and unattended. WEDNESDAY,MARCH7 
11:30 p.m. A resident of Farley Hall re·
• 
12:20 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident re· ported that a suspicious black male let 
ported the theft of a clock from the himself into her room while she was
: 
Siegfried Hall lobby. The theft occurred studying. He left after a few minutes. 
between 1 and 3 p.m. on March 3. 

:~====================~ 
: Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday 
• thrqugh Observer advertising. 
Durrr1~ Ldb Da.x Bea!(er-l?ev€415 hts flncf,,tj= I-I£.1Yk3tr== nJass Co,.,svrn p f,oYJ/ 
©1 ~0 Pizza Hut, Inc. 


FAST FREE DELIVERY Umited Dettvery Area 

Call232·2499 


; -~ M;di;-----~---:;-6-"P;;kPePsiZo~--, 
1

§" Cheese Pizzo : ,/ 99( 
1 

I ff $699 or2 $999 I #
~ lor on~ ~ with the purchase of any Pairs"' I
I Toppings Extra I or Large Pizza at regular price. I 
I 
1 Available an Pan, Hand-Tossed Traditional or Thin ' NCrispl'Piua I tift~~~~"~~::~~~~~ 1 VALID ON DELIVERY OR CARRYOUT Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per portyI OHer Expires Marth 11,1990 I per visit at participating Pizzo HIJl® restouronts. Hot volid in I Ploa.. -11oo ,..,.. •"-otdorlog. o,. coupon pot porty pot •isi at ~ I combination with any ather Ptno HIJl® offer. Po~~ atradem01k ~ par1iripaling Plno Hut"'""'"""'~-Nat YOiid in co~inalian with any athtr ......-..... of Pi~ Hut, ll"l: Pe~ Cola~ areg~lefed tmdemDik of ~ I ~""Hut" affw. ® dosipt• roptorod trcrdomarb al ~ua Hu1, Inc. L.initod P-~ 1 Pepsi-Co., ll"l. Umned de~very areg Our drtvell CDfl'( no more ~ ~ 1na lhrr drinn IOITf no""" than S20 oo. t/20< ..n~!ian ~ut than 520.00. l/20C cash redempllon volue. ~ut I
I 
.a.. «:>1990 Plrnl Hu1, Inc. 45/20 . I ©1990 PlllO Hut, Inc. 75 • 
Cal. 232 2499 Cal: 232-2499 
~-----------J------------~ 

Call 239·5303 fqr details. 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA r eaturiDt Friday aigllt sea:toocl buffet cmcl Sullday bi'1UICh 219-259-9925 

, ~ 
Ihe Obset:Ver 
is looking for: 
Ad Designers 
Must be creative and responsible. If interested, please contact Amy Eckert at 
239-5303 or 283-3525. 
Thurs • Club CupNite Closed Fri. 8 Sat. Have a Good Break!!! 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1990 
Seven demonstrators killed in South African homeland 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Seven JWople were killed Wednesday when police firlld on demonstrators in the black homnland of Bo­phuthatswana, one of several black-ruled territories faeing growing unrest, reports said. 
South African President F.W. de Klerk said his governnwnt was concerned the violence in the homelands could hinder ef­forts to open negotiations on a new constitution that would in­dude the country's black ma­jority. 
Speaking to journalists in Cape Town, de Klerk said nego­tiations could not begin if there was "anarchy" in black areas. 
South African Foreign Min­ster Pik Botha said Wednesday night his government's security forces were providing "cooperative assistann~" to Bophuthatswana. 
lie did not say specifically whether troops had been sPnt to tlw nominally independent homeland. but de Kl1)rk said that step would be taken if nPr­essary. 
Doznns of bl<u:ks haVP dind in rneent days during violnncP in several of South Africa's 10 black homelands. Most of tlw deaths occurred in the south­eastern homeland of Cisk!d, where the military staged a coup Sunday. 
Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES 1DWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. Just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges~ 
1-800-942-AMEX ~ NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
•If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student lD and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Scats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you calL Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwc:st does not have published routings. Ciry fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call 1·800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
----------------~----------­





Business
Thursday, March 8, 1990 
pa e 7 

Student managers taste big business running foodsales 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 
The work of foodsales man­agers shows that a great deal of time and trouble goes into running a successful business. In some cases. however. outside factors limit thn success of dorm foodsales. 
Foodsales managers toil long hours updating inventory and rherking sales n~ceipts. While some dorms' foodsales run smoothly with comfortable profits. others struggle to break nven with costs. Some l'oodsales even have to close down temporarily due to finan­cial problems. 
Morrissey Foodsales, run by Chris Benzinger and Mike Son­ntag, recently reopened to strong sales after over a year of dormancy. Where some dorms allow their foodsalcs to use basement space for free, Benzinger and Sonntag must pay rent for the area they use. High rPntal rates of previous years resulted in some financial problems in the 1988-89 school year. 
"Last yfmr people ended up losing money because the rent was so high. Th1'Y had to pay for some things out of their own pocket," Sonntag said. 
Morrissey's n1-1w rector, Fa­ther Joe Ross, agreed to nego­tiate a lower rent this year, Sonntag said. With lower over­all costs, the store is much easier to operate and Sonntag said he expects the business to achieve a healthy profit by the end of this school year. 

Both managers receive a small portion of any profit made, an incentive to run an ef­ficient store. Still, Sonntag in­sists that profits are not the most important part of their management goals. lie noted. 
"We were hired under the as­
sumption that we were provid­
ing a service to our dorm. A 
strong effort is made to keep 
prices low." 
Grace's foodsales, called 
Sarge's, provides a different 
example of a student run busi­
ness. Strongly supported by 
dorm funds, Jim Meyers said 
he, Dan Collins, and Shaun 
Barry find running foodsales in 
Grace relatively easy. Each 
manager invests a great deal of 
time into his job, but the size of 
Grace virtually guarantees 
strong sales every night, Meyers 
said. 
Meyers emphasized the im­
portance of experience in mak­
ing foodsales run smoothly. 
"Yoo have to get someone who 
has been groomed for the man­
ager job. You need someone 
who can be trusted," he said. 
Collins, a junior. presently 
shares duties with the two se-

The Observer/Dave Short Lee Polisano perfects his pizza-making technique Wednesday night at Sarge's, Grace Hall's foodsales. Many other students spend their evenings working at foodsales gaining first-hand business knowledge. 
niors and has been trained this of the profits, but most extra year to head the store next money goes back into the dorm. year. This passing of the man-Grace has used some of this agerial torch ensures the con-money to establish a social tinued success of the store, ac-area outside of Sarge's, and cording to Meyers. this area helps attract cus-
The dorm strongly supports tomers to the store. Grace's foodsales. Meyers said Carroll Hall has experienced managers share a percentage some trouble with maintaining 
W 0 R L D AWARENESS SERIES PRESENTS 
The Struggle For 

.STICE 

IN 

Central America 
OVERSEAS 
Week Cosponsored by Sr~~:Nf and DEVELOPMENT
·JJ~c 1989-1990 .C 
NETWORK 
MONDAY March 19, 1990 
8:30pm • Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
"Human Rights" (Previously delivered at the United Nations) 
Fr. Michael Himes, 
c.s.c. 
Theology Professor 
TUESDAY March 20, 1990 
7:30pm • 117 Haggar Hall 
"Economic Restructuring of Panama" 
Prof. David Ruccio Prof. Michael Francis Irene Perurena Franciso Linares 
WEDNESDAY March 21, 1990 
7:OOpm and 9:00pm Engineering Auditorium 
"Romero" :a film. 
lO:OOpm 
Prayer Service Honoring Romero at Siegfried 
its foodsales. Mike Baumer and David Palumbo took up the task this year. Baumer, the dorm vice-president, felt that foodsales were a necessary ser­vice that a dorm should pro­vide. He said, "The year before last year, our foodsales lost so much money, so everyone de­cided that it would be infeasible to continue. We had no food­
sales last year." 
Baumer noted that because . Carroll is one of the smaller 
dorms on campus, demand for 
food will never be strong. Even 
with the weak market, Baumer 
feels that foodsales could work 
if situated in a different place 
in the dorm. 
"Right now it is in the base­
ment. In every other dorm, 
foodsales is situated in a social 
place, but there is nothing be­
sides foodsales in our base­
ment, except a boiler," he said. 
Both managers' salary is 
equal to their salespersons', 
although Baumer said that ex­
tra time is involved in the man­agers' jobs. "If we had made some extra money, then both David and I would have re­ceived a percentage," he said. 
Baumer said he understands that large amounts of money will never be made from run­ning foodsales, but he views his efforts as well-directed, consid­ering the service foodsales pro­vides for a dorm. 
THURSDAY March 22, 1990 
7:OOpm • Montgomery Theatre 
Lecture and Discussion on Liberation Theology 
Fr. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. Director ofKellogg Institute 
8:00pm• esc "Life and Death of Archbishop Romero: Significance for the U.S. Church" 
Rev. Joseph Nangle, O.F.M. 
FRIDAY March 23, 1990 
6:30pm • South Dining Hall (Faculty Dining Room) 
Central American Dinner 
Reservations Required call239-7668 
SATURDAY March 24, 1990 
"Romero: A Prophet for our Time" Commemorative March departs St. Joseph High School at 3:00pm to St. Stephen's parish. 
Vigil and Mass at 5:OOpm follows march. 


------~-~ ­


Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, March 8, 1990 
Ihe~ _Qbser:ver --=-== 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regis Coccia  R1ch Iannello  
Exec. News Editor  MaHhew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  .Molly Killen  
VIewpoint Editor  . .Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  .John Blas1  Systems Mgr  Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor .  ... ~. Eric Bailey  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Chnst1ne Gill  Controller  Anne Lindner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­Icies ol the administration ol either Institution The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as possible~ Uns1gned editonals represent the op1noon ol the maJonty ol the lollowong Edotor-in-Chiel. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Editor. Sports Ed1tor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor Commentaries, letters, and the lnsode Column present the voews of theor authors Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expressoon of varyong opon1ons on campus, through letters, IS encouraged 
LtOPARD I-lAVlNG IT~ 001''7 C~ANGW 
Smug gate guard denies admission 
Dear Editor: 
Allow me to relate to you an incident that occurred on March 3, 1990. As I was at­tempting to bring my ear on campus in order to transport a guitar amplifier from Stanford Hall to Fisher, I was stopped at the Stepan gate by a security guard, who very rudely in­formed me that I would not be allowed on campus. When I explained that the amplifier was too heavy to carry all that distance, he very snidely asked me how I could have loaded it into my ear in the first place. I again explained to him that it is possible to carry it, but impos­siblfl to carry it all the way to Fisher. I then informed the of­ficer that other guards have let me on before, to which he replied very smugly, "Not to­day." I asked him if he could possibly be serious, and he said "Yes, you bP.tter believe I'm se­rious. Now turn around and get out of here." 
I could not believe it. I was supposed to practice with my band, which was now impossi­ble. I felt completely violated. I could not have bep,n more cour­teous to this man, and my con­geniality was met with smug­ness and condescension. Aside from the fact that I simply can­not understand why a student of this University should not be 

let on campus in the first place, unless he or she is in violation of the law or some university policy or other, it boggles my mind how this security officer could justify the way he acted. I have come into contact with this attitude among our offi­cers, as well as others, many times before. 
I do not wish to slag a noble and very much needed profes­sion, and I do not wish to imply that all police officers, Notre 
DOONESBURY 
HMK'S RI6HT. IM CUrlPle1lfi..Y MCN=TWCJI 
IA/17H tuf/.4T5 
HAPP!iNIM3 
JNIVVSJC 
NOtul 
, .......~~-...'2> 


I MEAN, 'IOO'Re HIP 7D 'IOf.lo,/6 MC, AR£N1 
I'M MY

'tOlJrANIJMIUI VANI/..1.../r • .._.. 
'On a trip a person should travel 
PAREN!51
SOUL. I!SOU.! A1845e r H()(,(JA/JOIJTPAUlA AB· I'M MY 
with a companion of equal or 
mr 'tVUHAV6TO 


PA!Wff51 
superior mind. Better travel alone
KNOW AEJO(JT HE;R, 
than travel with a fool.'
I 
Buddha 

LETTERS 

Ad campaign for homosexuality lacks moral or factual substance 
Dear Editor: 
Two items that appeared in the Friday, Feb. 23 edition of The Observer demand com­meut. The first, a paid adver­tisement on page 6, attempted to place a variety of hobbies and/or sports on the same level with homosexuality. The two sponsors of the ad wanted the readers to feel the same about ballroom dancing, golf, bowl­ing, hunting, jogging and ho­
Dame's included, are, put sim­security guard could have bene­
ply, "jerks." However, among fited infinitely more from sim­many, this smugness and con­ply being nice. descension seems to be preva­lent. 
Theodore F. Leo One would think, especially at Stanford Hall a Christian university, that the March 4 1990 
Christmas in April project relies on participation of student body 
Dear Editor: the Office of Student Affairs to 
Even though we are now the coordinate student support. On "lamn duck" Student Body April 7, the South Bend and President and Vice-President, Notre Dame communities will there is still some unfinished unite to help fix-up homes in business we are in the midst of the Washington Street area of working on. First, we would South Bend. We strongly en­like to congratulate Hob Pasin courage as many students as and Fred Tombar as the newly­possible to become a part of elected Student Body President this worthwhile project. If you and Vice-President. They will are interested in working on assume their duties April 1. We Christmas in April, please con­are confident they will steer tact your hall president or call student government in the right student government before direction next year. break. · 
The other topic of interest Matt Breslin has to do with Christmas in Student Body President April. Student government has Dave Kinkopf been working with Pat Doran in Student Body Vice-President 
mosexuality.
The first five activities are designed to exercise the body (although there are some who might argue that hunting a deer by sitting for hours in a tree stand does little for one's health). Homosexuality, on the other hand, is a most destruc­tive lifestyle. There is hardly the basis for a comparison. The ad fails in its factual content as well. The homosexual crowd continues to use the nawed Kinsey Heport figures which support that ten percent of the population is homosexual. In fact, every single study since then has shown numbers near one or two percent. 
The ad further states that "Biologists have found homosexual behavior in all higher strata of the animal kingdom." My initial question is "What biologists? What animals?" My second in­clination is to ask, "Since some animals eat their young, arc we to emulate them as well?" Fi­nally, the sponsors of the ad compare homosexuality with being left-handed. How about curly hair? Male pattern bald­ness? Most scientific studies on the issue "favor an environmen­tal explanation, related to dys­functional families," according to the Feb. 17, 1990 issue of World magazine. Quite the op­posite of the genetic, biological, or hormonal source mentioned 
by the homosexual community. 

The second item is the article by J. Michael Leger on page 11. Mr. Leger's item is a eritieal examination of the recent Cam­pus Ministry articles on sexual­ity. Throughout his article, Mr. Leger chides the Campus Min­istry scenarios for their non­favorable depiction of homo­sexuality. Towards the end of his statement, Mr. Leger writes, "[Campus Ministry is! inclined to treat homoerotic feelings as diseased, despite seventeen years of official American Psy­chiatric Association repudia­tion of the disease model." 
In fact, the APA only changed its stance on homosexuality after membPrs of the :'-Jational Gay and Lesbian Task Foree stormed an APA convention and "demanded that the association reclassify homosexual behavior as normal. Up to that time, psychiatrists for the most part agreed that homosexuality re­sulted from, among other things .. sexual maladjustm1~nt during puberty," again citing the same organization's ap­proval is not much support. 
Despite the aggressive tactics of homosexual groups, most people do not view their lifestyles as just another way to live, rather as an aberration that goes against the norms established by God. Last year voters in five cities including San Francisco, Tacoma, Wash­ington; Athens, Ohio; lrvirw, California and Concord, Cali­fornia defeated pro-homosex­ual laws by large margins. 
The only answer that homo­sexuals can turn to and find real peace and acceptance is that provided by God through his Son, Jesus Christ. 

John D. Warren Captain, U.<.,'AF AFIWTC Feb. 26, 1990 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
----~---~­



Viewpoint 
page 9

Thursday, March 8, 1990 
-
Reforms in Graduate School add to NO's prestige
meet this graduaLe studentLast week an author in need.
Viewpoint voiced an important By Louis Canales The Graduate Student Unionsentiment shared by graduate has also met most of the non­students at the University of academic issues on its agendaNotre Dame. For years Notre history of regular and con­this year. Extended summerDame has concentrated on de­structive student participation hours of the JACC, improvedveloping the academic and resi­in policy making. 
football ticket distribution, in­dential programs that make it Graduate students are more creased newsletter (Grad News) 
one of the finest undergraduate able now than ever to have an publication, and the establish­institutions in the country. Add impact in improving their con­
ment of Thursday Graduate
to this a football program filled dition on campus. A rejuve­Lunches at the Alumni/Sr. Clubwith legendary traditions that nated Graduate Student Union are just a few of the changedmake one want to indulge in the (GSU) serves as the appropriate that have already come aboutinebriating spirit of the Notre channel of communication through GSU this year.
Dame Family. Yet in all this recognized by the University dazzle, graduate students have administration. The Graduate 
The stage has been set for traditionally lacked prominence Student Council, having gradu­graduate students to take in university policy. All this is ate student representatives charge of their destiny while at true. until recent years. from each academic depart­Notre Dame. The GSU is the Today the University is mak­ment, serves as the forum vehicle through which graduate ing a concerted effort to im­where graduate issues are pri­students may transform their prove graduato program. Along oritized for the GSU to present personal frustrations with the with this commitment comes a to the University. system into useful energy to variety of improvements to Already, graduate students bring about change for the graduate student life and the are seeing the fruits of the im­benefit of all graduate stu­integration and recognition of proved rapport between the dents. We have taken great graduate students as contribut­GSU and the administration in strides in the amount of recog­ing members of the Notre the last two years. Last May's nition we receive from the ad­
Dame community. Fr. Malloy announcement of the Univer­ministration and undergradu­alluded to this new University sity's commitment to build the ates. We would like to see this focus in his inaugural speech Fischer Graduate Housing of the Office of Campus Min­ment starting in the Fall of extend to the Notre Dame fac­two and a half years ago. lie Complex is a concrete example istry, an advisory group com­1990. This form of payment ulty. so that they may recognize again expressed this commit­of the changes taking place in posed of graduate students will will be of great benefit to all graduate students as their col­ment in last year's welcoming favor of graduate students at be established by that office in married students who also have leagues as well as contributing letter to graduate students. ".. Notre Dame. Clearing of the the next few weeks. This group to pay for their spouse and de­students in their field. . the University must have a grounds has begun behind the will work with Campus Ministry pendents. strong commitment to excel­O'Hare-Grace Townhouses to in solving Catholic and inter­As graduate students we have lence in graduate education. make space for the 198 two­faith needs of the graduate This year we have received done an excellent job at ex­This requires a full spirit of co­bedroom apartments that will population. With the coopera­$3,000 from the Graduate pressing our disenchantment operation among all segments be ready for occupancy in the tion of Campus Ministry the School to supplement the with the system. Now that we of the University community." Fall of 1991. plans of the Fischer Housing $12,000 fund fro the GSU have the University's attention 
Notre Dame has grown to be The GSU has been an active Complex have also been revised Robert E. Gordon Travel Grant we must step forward to ensure 
a prestigious university contributor in the conceptual to include an Office of Campus Program. This program was that our needs continue to be 
through its undergraduate and formative stages of the Ministry in the community cen­established to subsidize gradu­met. Frustration may be 
programs. With the new focus complex. We have advised the ter of the complex. ate student travel for the pre­brought to light through free 
of the Graduate School it will university Board of Trustees in Affordable health insurance sentation of their research expression. Isolation may be 
mature into a leading teaching May of 1988, May of 1989, and has also been an issue that the work at conferences and other overcome through involvement. 
and research institution. With October of 1989 of the need for GSU has promoted with this universities. And recognition may come 
the added prestige of respected graduate student housing. Our administration. In August of about through vocal support. 
graduate programs, Notre persistence has paid off as we 1989 we offered an alternative Whether it be a presentation Change only takes place 
Dame should be able to attract have also been able to take part health insurance plan through on "Zone Melt Mixturing of through expression, involve­
better faculty and graduate in the design process of the the National Association of High Temperature Supercon­ment, and continued active 
students, and consequently im­complex by way of making rec­Graduate and Professional Stu­ductors" or "A Study of Moral support. 
prove the quality of the under­ommendations ranging from dents. Since it was the first Consistency". graduate student 
graduate academic programs. the number of bedrooms in an time that such a program was presentations carry with them The success of Notre Dame 
I agree that schools like apartment to the location of launched at a national level, a the best Notre Dame has to of­as a leading teaching and re­
Berkeley. Harvard. and Yale mailboxes within the commu­timing problem took place in fer as a teaching and research search institution depends on 
owe their strong academic rep­nity center of the complex. the distribution of applications institution. Already the GSU the quality of faculty and grad­
utation to their respective The GSU is also currently and information. has received requests amount­uate students it can attract as 
graduate programs. However, working with Campus Ministry This GSU initiative helped us ing $30,000 for the first two well as their relationship within 
these schools did not reach to respond to the diverse spiri­highlight the insurance problem periods this year. In light of the the University community. Ev­
their position of excellence tual needs of graduate stu­to the administration. With the need for additional funding, the eryone of us can help con­
solely as a result of policies dents. As a result of several cooperation and much effort of GSU is working together with tribute. 
created by the administration. GSU recommendations to the the Graduate School, graduate the Graduate School on a fi­
Graduate schools with presti­Board of Trustees and various students will be able to make nancial plan to secure the nec­Luis G. Canales is President of 
gious reputations often have a meetings with administrators insurance payments by install-essary funding to adequately the Graduate Student Union. 
LETTERS 
ND basketball record marks group, not individual effort 
tions you perform, such as
/Jear Editor: players, putting together prac­parenting abilities, but it re­wouldn't want to have all re­I know some students and tice drills, weight training mains your responsibility as sponsibility for your successes driving drunk or skipping 
classes.
fans are angry and unhappy schedules-whatever it takes to well. and failures be given to your Before pointing the finger at
with the poor fortunes our find a way to win. Be assured, Similarly, Digger can coach parents. You are the one who basketball tnam has been hav­the Notre Dame coaching staff his young players only so much. gets good grades, excels in art any one individual as being re­They must rise to the occasion or music, or wins a student sponsible for the basketball
ing lately and they want to find takes these preparations very and use their abilities effectively government election. You team's record, please considersonHJonc to blame. That is a seriously. More than anyone else, they want to win. for games to be won. Talent is would find it very unfair if the points I've made above.­
natural reaction. Players 
only latent ability. The individ­others praised your parents for Any win (or loss) is truly ablarnn the other team, coaches ual person must draw upon his these accomplishments. On the group achievement. 
blamn the referees, and fans There is one salient fact that 
blamn the coach. What they must be remembered before as­own personal resources to uti­other hand, it would be very Teresa Haus lize his training and talent ef­unfair to place all the blame on Basketball Office Staff
have to realize is that the rea­signing the blame to the fectively. After all, you your parents for any foolish ac-March s. 1990
sons for any loss are not so cut coaches. Coaching stops at the and dry. there is seldom, if out-of-bounds line. Once the evnr. one party upon whom you players take the floor, 99 per­
Juniors deserve study break for JPW
can place the blame. cent of all the coaching that gets done for each individual 
Dear Editor: changed the normal study rou­it mandatory for faculty to givei\n amazing amount of work game has already taken place. My parents' first visit to the tine for JPW. I found it disturb­juniors a break for this week­
and effort goes into planning After this point, only minor ad­
University of Notre Dame oc­ing that most teachers didn't end. JPW is one time when a the strategy of each individual justments can be made. Actu­curred during Junior Parents give their junior students a student should get relief from 
game-work that often starts ally, coaching is a lot like par­
Weekend 1990. My parents and break for this special weekend. Notre Dame's academic pres­just as soon as the schedule of enting. Your mom and dad I thoroughly enjoyed the week­My studies have felt and are sures,to.spend time with his/her 
each game is confirmed. Our raise you in the best way they end while spending our entire still feeling the negative effects family. We've all heard about coaches (head and three assis­know how, training you to cope 
time around campus and at of this academic time loss. My the importance of family and tants) watch countless hours of with all of the ordinary contin­planned JPW events. problem is not an isolated in­Notre Dame's commitment to 
game tapes on the opposing gencies that come about in life. 
Unfortunately this time com­stance either; most juniors I this cause. It is about time for teams, watch at least one game Most importantly, they instill in mitment to my parents took have talked to have expressed a the Notre Dame students, fac­in person. pour over piles of you the ability to discriminate away from my time commit­similar dissatisfaction. Does ulty. and administration, to game statistics, and spend f!.nd make your own decisions in ment to my academic studies. Notre Dame want the commit­turn this pledge into reality. hours designing plays to take those situations that arise con­At first, I thought the faculty ment to family during JPW ad­advantage of the opponents trary to expectations. Ulti­would anticipate this problem versely affect academic perfor­
weaknesses and to get around mately, the way you live your and adjust their workload ac­mance? James S. Connemey their strengths. Once this has life is in some measure a reflec­cordingly. However, only one During the "Year of the Fam­Off-Campus been done. they take it to the tion of your mom and dad's out of my five professors ily," I believe it is time to make Feb. 28, 1990 
-



Accent 
Thursday, March 8, 1990 

The Flag-Waving Veteran 

THERESA LOOMIS 
accent writer 
Holy Cross Brother Edward Courtney, 71, has had his pic­ture taken with a squad of high school cheerleaders. lie's been given balloons. roses and teddy bears by people he doesn't know. 
In return. he waves and gives the "thumbs up" signal to honking drivers along the stretch of U.S. 31 across from the University of Notre Dame. Sometimes he sits in the lawn chair he sets out each day. Sometimes he stands. But al­ways, he waves his hand and flashes his thumb. 
"I have to affirm people that go by," he says. "You can't have people wave and not wave baek .... That would b1~ rude. A man asked me once why I don't read a book. but I have to reply in kind. There's no chance to rest." 
Brother Courtney spends five to six hours daily, weather permitting. by the side of the four lane highway. lie stays un­til it gets dark or the mosquitoes drive him away; but he is not alone. A battalion of American flags have fluttered beside him ever since he began his vigil crusade on June 10, 1989. 
Brother Courtney. a World War II veteran, is protesting the Supreme Court's January, 1989, decision which permits flag burning under the First Amendment's freedom of speech clause. The Court over­ruled an earlier decision in whieh Gregory Johnson of Texas was convicted of dese­cration of the flag at the 1984 Republican National Convention. 
"When you destroy the flag. you destroy everything sacred about our country and people," asserts Brother Courtney. "The flag flies above all opinions. 

positions and ideologies to bring us together as a people." 
lie took up the flag not only in opposition to the Court, but also to honor the men who died for this country. The red of the flag "represents blood shed for us by patriots." 
Brother Courtney. who con­siders himself a "concerned cit­izen" rather than an "activist," says support for the flag and his position has been outstanding. "Several people stop and park their cars and ask me what I'm doing. We exchange ideas and they affirm me as I affirm them. Sometimes students want to dialogue about my position. We can talk. We can't lose anything by dialogue, but freedom of speech has limitations. It isn't absolute-the flag belongs to everyone. In this country, you can't burn leaves, but you can burn the flag." 
Occasional critics don't faze him. "I get a few dissidents who have a sophomoric or immature remark. but I never reply in kind. Maybe, then, they'll change their attitude. They'll remember what they did and they'll regret it. .. I wish they'd stop and dialogue with me. I find young people very positive so far. They listen, they're smart, they're articulate, they know what they want. Some have strong views and that's fine. You should have strong views." 
Some people love the flag and admire Brother Courtney's ded­ication but don't agree with what he's doing. He regards the experience as "positive all the way" and plans to keep his vigil indefinitely. "I've become a fix­ture there." he claims. 
The bundled figure, ski gloved hands raised in salute and stocking cap pulled down nearly to his glasses, surely will bn remembered by many chil­dren who ride in any of the nine buses that pass Brother Courtney between 2 p.m. and 3:30p.m. 
"I like to be there for the buses," he admits. 'The kids open their windows and give me the thumbs up. This is a lesson on patriotism and love of country that they won't forget." 
Brother Courtney's active role breaks from the brothers' tra­dition. "We have to get involved in this world instead of letting other people take the heat for freedoms we enjoy," he asserts. "We have to break away from the stereotype. Maybe I'm starting a trend." 
About a fourth of the brothers have supported him vocally. but Brother Courtney doesn't importune anyone. "If they support me. fine," he says, "but, regardless, I'm going out there." 
The flag is not Brother Courtney's only concern. Since retirement he has taken up writing and often sends "letters to the editor." lie's also written to CBS concerning broadcasting of "Card Sharks" and 'The Newlywed Game," and written a commentary on sports philosophy for the South Bend Tribune. 
"I never went to college, " he explains. "I didn't even pick up a pen until nineteen hundred and seventy. Letters are impor­tant. We have two freedoms purchased at a great price: our vote and our pen-and we should use them effectively for change." 
Brother Courtney's dedication to the flag is rooted in this phi­losophy. "People who say, 'What can I do? I'm just a lone person,· can vote and take up their pens. Don't neglect pre­cious freedoms. We have thou­sands of heroes and role mod­els, people who make great sacrifices. If you want to find heroes and heroines look in your own homes and neighbor­hoods." 
ABOVE: Giving the thumbs up signal to all who pass, Brother Courtney spends five to six hours daily waving his flag in protest of the Supreme Court's decision supporting flag burning. BELOW: Bundled against the cold, Brother Courtney especially enjoys when the school buses drive by. He stands as a lesson on love tor his country to many children. Photos by Andrew McCloskey 
,.
·w ,r ''I! 

'I 
~' I' 
1f 
--~--------------------~-------~--~----------------~------------------------------~----------------~----~--~-------­
Thursday, March 8, 1990 The Observer page 11 
13-year old Capriati wins in her second pro appearance 
BOCA HATC)N. Fla. (AP) Jennifer Capriati seems to be improving with age. 
Th1~ lwralded 13-year-old, playing in her second profes­sional match. beat 15th-seeded Claudia Porwik 7-5. 0-6. 6-2 in Wednesday's second round of the Virginia Slims of Florida. 
The win was more improssive than Capriati's first-round blitz of Mary Lou Daniels on Tuesday. Porwik is ranked 34th in the world. 79 places above Daniels. and played well in de­feat. But Capriati showed poise when she regrouped aftnr a second-set trouncing. 
"She just hung in there," said her beaming mother, Denise. "It's great." 
Capriati will face unseeded Natalie Tauzait of France on Thursday in the round of 16. Can an eighth-grader win the $350,000 tournament? 
''I'm going to think to myself that I have a chance," Capriati said. 'Tm not going to say I'm not going to get that far." 
After two sets against Porwik, Capriati appeared des­tined for elimination. The West German took advantage of windy weather by alternating deep groundstrokes with drop shots and slice backhands. 
Capriati was running from sideline to sideline and was un­able to find her rhythm. With Porwik up 15-0 in the final game of the second set, Capriati raced all over the court chasing the ball and fi­nally hit it into the net from ex­haustion. 
"She gave me problems by mixing it up, especially in the wind," Capriati said. "Everything was going in her 
favor,  and  she  won  the  big  
points."  
At the start of the final  set,  

Capriati was talking to herself. She also began grunting when she hit the ball. 
Suddenly winners flew from her racket. A sizzling forehand down the line put her up 1-0; two aces helped her hold serve at love for a 2-1 lead. 
Porwik, 21, was tired. 
"I thought she must be tired a little bit. too," Porwik said. "But that's the advantage of the younger generation. It seems like they can hit the ball 
for five hours." 
Capriati hit a backhand passing shot down the line to break Porwik for a 4-2 lead. The youngster held serve, then broke again, winning the final two points at the net. 
"I feel pretty old now," Porwik said. "She is a very, very good player." 
A country club ambience re­placed the circus atmosphere that Capriati's debut Tuesday had inspired. But the crowd of about 4,000 roared in appreci­ation of her last-set heroics. 
"J think I play better when it gets like that, where the crowd gets into it and I have to fight back," she said. 
Capriati, who turns 14 on March 29, is now assured of at least 32 computer ranking points and $3,600 in her first tournament paycheck. 
''I'm very happy to win two matches already," she said. ''I'm not really surprised." 
The Observer accepts classifteds every bustness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classtfieds is 3 p.m. All classif.ieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. tncludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping. Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 For a hot tip on where to find a good time Call 64 7-0900 ext 1 7 40 St. Mary's Campus Events Hotline LOST/FOUND Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue. with red stripes. Any info call Tom at 234-9728. REWARD LOST. Gold ring with Ruby. Great sentimental Value. Please. return to Nick . x5208 or 277-7236. Reward. FOUND. piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify  SUIAIER JOBS SELORS · Boys Can1>. W. Mass. /Girts~,Maine Top Salary, Rrn!Bdii.J;undry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Alchery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicyding, Chetlfteading, Dance. Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, . Gyrmastics. Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Pholography. Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Rq.s, Sailboarding. Sailing, 5aJb-}. Soccer, Tennis, Track,.WSI, Wlllenlki, W.,;ghts, Wood. Mon call or write: Car111 Wlnadu, 5 Glen Lane, ~-'.amaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5~83. Women call or write:~ Vega. P.O. Box 1771, Ouxbuty, MA 02332 617) 934-6536. GUESS WHAT' I'M STILL DESPERATELY SEEKING A GOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE ONE. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM. RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELP DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4078 Pardon me: I am seeking a goodly number of those darling little tank tops that read. "Drink like a champion." Do call X3574. Need ride home or close to home-­Atlanta; Thomasville.Ga .. or Tallahassee. Fla. (Southern GA) Can leave after 2:30 Fri.,return by Sun night. Call  HOUSE FOR RENTEARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK WALKING DISTANt,:,c FROM READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B340. NO 232-3616 HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOLARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F HOME, 5 BDRM, W/0, CLOSE TO 1 OAM-4PM 255-8700 NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264· 6010.CAMPUS PAINTERS NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER FOR RENT HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW APTS. AVALIABLE 7081475-3439. MAILING LESS THAN 1 MILE ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL FROM NOTRE DAME STREET-EVANSTON, IL 60201. FEATURES INCLUDE: ATIENTION: EASY WORK Security systems, EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (1) 602· basements, rear yards, 838-8885 Ext. W-6262. washer & dryer, new construction, good ATIENTION: EARN MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/YEAR 11eighborhood.dishwasher INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. CALL 232 -8256 (1) 602-838·8885 EXT. TV-6262. FOR SALE \I..___T_IC_KET_s_j "-.-.­••-.­••-••-.­..-•• -.­••-.­••-••-.-.---­Hey Seniors. Tell your parents to order aJI four ATIENTION FEMALE GRADUATION TICKETS. TRAVELERS'!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Because I need 4 extra tickets and FOR SALE: Spring Break will pay CASH for any seat plane ticket to Ft.lauderdale anywhere. So after break call me BEST OFFER call Molly at 256-9374 and get your mula. @284-5410 PERSONALSPioneer CD player w/ remote. Good condition. $75/BO-x1072 Patrick  Dear Joe, Chris, Barnie, Thorn, & Brian, Have a great Spring Break. Remember its better in the Bahamas--but it's the best in South Bend!!!!! Have fun wherever you go! We're looking forward to partying with you when we get back. Until next week, ~~-~-g_~~~~::!__ _____________________ HeY hEy, LiTtle (BiG) oNe: SiNcE I fOrGoT a MeSsAge YeStErDaY, hErE's 2 fOr 2-DaY: HaPpY almOsT birThDay. FiRe Up FoR cEleBrAtinG iT oN tHe AiRplaNe RiDe HoMe. LoVe aNd SmOoChes---ThE AnE wHo gEtS ArOuNd, Or So tHeY SaY Top 13 Earnest Crew Quotes: Mom: How big are your feet? Jules: Want some caffeene? John: Hello. This is world forum. Louii just fell. Tara: What do you do if you wanfto throw up? Cara: Cards anyone? Tim: BULL ! Tony: Don't worry Tim. I've got the flat. Julie: Which way is down? Maggie: I'll have a cup. Maria: Good morning Moe' Gretchen: Want some Wizard fries? Kate:­Kevin: I'm getting some milk. Gee, thanks Stumbling Crew. Penguin Man hi ag  Joe. Have a great time in Ft. Lauderdale. Don't miss me too much. It's been great spending so much time with you lately--should we keep it like this? I love you and I'll miss you. Kelley IF YOU KNOW WHAT A BETIWY IS... YOU KNOW WHERE THE PARTY IS... Deb, Beware of guys with pants that fit like gloves, esp in Daytona!! Have fun! Happy 21st Birthday Turkeyface! Everybody look out! Beverly Pert is 21 and will be talking in your face at various bars tonight. Thanks for being there for me, Bev. Happy B-day! Love, David. Dear Lisa, Katie, Jeannie, Debbie, Jennifer & Molly, I will miss you all over break!!!! I hope your plans for St. Patty's Day work out. I'm sorry I can't make it to Chicago--maybe next time. Drink one for me!!! Remember· Life is a waste of our time Time is a waste of our lives So let's all get wasted and have the time of our lives!! Cheers. Molly  
FOUND/ LIFTED · BASKETBALL ON STEPAN COURTS ON FRI MARCH 2. I TOOK IT BY ACCIDENT. REALLY CALL X1436 TO 10 AND CLAIM. LOST! LOST! LOSTI LOST! LOST I A gold. Gruen watch with a smooth brown band in between Knott and St. Ed's. Call Brad at x1701. LOST ...diamond and sapphire ring High sentimental value .. ····reward'''''"" Call Debbte #2935. LOST: Favorite pair of Ray Bans in tan case. If found. please return. Matt 271-9576 Three months Zelda. Dig it. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORT~-' QUA~ 3Y NOH. ~E:WAnU. SE'!,,~ 2073 LwANTED  Shonda X2551 ROOMMATE" ROOMMATE Female roommate needed to share a Turtle Creek apartment for 90-91 school year!! Call Kelly @ 4985 or Julie@ 287-9378 .. ROOMMATES NEEDED .. Female roommates needed for a safe. close-to-campus house (1/4 mile from campus). with cheap rent($150/mo) and fun roommates II For summer of '90 or 90-91 school year'! Call Julie at 287-9378!! DESPARATE!!!!!!!!! My ride home bailed out on me and I will be stuck in South Bend if you don't help me' I need a ride to Colorado and back. Will help with tolls and gas. PLEASE HELP MEl!!! CHRISSY x4026 FISHING COMPANION WANTED RESPONSIBLE SINGLE MALE 20· 30. IF YOU CAN AFFORD A FREE 1 OR 2 WEEK FISHING VACATION JULY 7-21 CALL 272­ For Sale: 1980 CAMARO $1200. 232-6085 4SALE 1 way return plane ticket from Orlando 3/18. Call271-8089. FOR SALE!!!! Emerson STEREO: dual cassette, turntable. AMIFM radio & speakers. Will sell CHEAP II! Best offer. Call Shannon at 2469. [ FORRENT KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm, 2bth.furnished $600 ptmth 913 Leland X4420 SUBLEr''SUBLEr""SUBLET ??Staying for the summer?? Sublet a Turtle Creek apartment  STUDENTS... JUST DO IT!!!!! Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. Visit the NO Computer Store for more details. BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college teachers, unable to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are'responsible. caring people ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect ailytime . except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512. Position Available CATHOLIC SCHOOL PRINCIPAL Grades K-6 (118 students) Applications available. Write: Saint Patrick Parish Office  RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. Three months Zelda. Dig it. THE WORLD TOUR continues Thursday at The Grace Coffee House. IRISH MUSIC from 9 till12 !! SPECIAL NOTICE!! UPS SERVICE DAILY M·F 12-5 THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE SEND HOME YOUR CLOTHING FOR SPRING BREAK -DONT CARRY IT WITH YOU II Jay. It's been 1112 years today. Wherever you and I go in the future. can I ride on the trunk? Love Lynn  SHE WAS: -Dark blond -Wearing dark green pants -Walking from the library to Farley Monday 3/5 -In a (blue?) winter coat ·Definitely cute. To Jennifer Scott-Hope you have a happy 19th B­day on Saturday. Thanks for the week long visit. Next time we're coming to Ann Arbor. Have a good rest of the semester. See you at Hash Bash!! We love you!! The Quint+1 ...CHICAGO to MIAMI••• Rnd. trip plane tix for sale $200 LEAVE 3/10 RETURN 3/17 CALL 284-5462 or 5456 Attention Second Floor Grace: Guilty Conscience? You must if you recognize your dirty deeds in print so quickly. P.S. Heard the "leis" were given out this weekend. Sorry we missed it!!!  
OVERSEA3 ,lOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countnes.AII fields. Free info. Write IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04. Corona Del  9040. EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor  for the summer of '90!! Living on campus for the summer is the "blaaas." not to mention expensive I Help us and  320 West Broadway Kokomo. IN 46901 (All correspondence will be kept  "Ladies" of SMC, We beat the deadline you "bear us I  Stump us-don't flatter yourselves. "boys." We just missed the deadline.  
Mar. CA 92625. WANTED: POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED FOR HIGH-CALIBER BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. IF YOU FEEL READY. CALL MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650  at CAMP WAYNE. Northeastern Pennsylvania, 2/12 hours from New York City. co-ed 6/23-8/21. Salary plus travel allowance and room and board. Option for pre­camp work starting 6/10. Warm. fun family atmos. Specialists needed in all sports. waterfront. camping, computers. arts. Sign-up CPO, Hesburgh Library. Write Box 823. Lynbrook, NY 11563 or call 516-599-4562  we'll help you!! Call Kelly at 4985 or Julie at 287 -9378" FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 SUMMER RENTAL.Home near campus. Security system.272­6306  confidential) I need a ride to Colo. and back for Spring Break -my ride canceled on me!! Will help pay for tolls and gas. Call CHRISSY x4026 SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST BID SALES WED. MARCH 21, 6·9 PM FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE  with "all due respect, .. The MEN of 2nd floor Grace. KATHLEEN DELAFUENTE--­maybe I'll pick up the beat of the mambo one of these days. After all. miracles never cease!!!!!!  GIN-­Good luck hwhen you take your Theo Exam. Make Christ and all the Christians be with you!!!! Love. lggy PS Sorry I didn't get your notes!! Monica Badar and Patti Weed Good luck on Camps-you gals are the best in the Business!! Best wishes from K.I.M.  
Need Ride to or near Pittsburgh 218-9 $$ JoAnne 1270 PART-TIME SUPERVISOR JOB. 5·10 PM. M-F. $9/HR. + BENEFITS. ROADWAY PACKAGE SYSTEM CALL 294-4082  COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Outstanding brother/sister sports camps -22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls • 215-884-3326; boys-914-698­1833.  2 STUDENT HOUSES. 6-7 BDRMS. EACH. CALL CHUCK GLORE 232·1776. LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234-9364.  I'M GOING HOME ON 1-80 TO SF AFTER SENIOR WEEK. RIDER WANTED FOR MOST/ALL THE WAY CALL 1436 BILL HELP!!! I need a ride to ST. CHARLES, ILL., or nearby--call Darren x2055  Dinner tonight, right? Herbie-­Thanks so much for helping me train the CEs. Thumbs up for the News Dept. TUTS  KIM MARTIN THANK YOU for giving me the miracle pill to releve my pain yesterday. You are a Saint! How many days 'til little pete gets one year bigger??? I think it's TWO.  
·····-·---·-·--------------·--+----·  

r 
~---------­
r 
I page 12 
I Bennett 
continued from page 16 
Wildcats for a earner-high 22 points in Notre Dame's 80-67 vietory. llis 15 seeond-half points included eight-of-eight shooting from tlw free-throw lilw. 
"(Kenturky) parked down on LaPhonso in the secorul half, and that lPft mP wide open out­side," said BPmwtt. "At the end of the gamP, they were fouling me, so I had to hit some free throws." 
Bennett's 22 points against Kentucky and 21 versus Georgia Tech led all Irish scor­ers, but the sophomore guard will be remembPrPd most for the thwe-point shot he hit with no time renutining on tlw game 
clock  to  beat  then  No.  4  
Syracuse  last month  in the  
Carrier l>ome.  

Trailing the Orangemen 65­63 following Billy Owens' driv­ing layup with three sPconds remaining, the Irish nlwded a mirade. Bennett delivered just that when he took Ellis' pass at the top of the key and con­verted the trny to give Notre Damn a 66-65 victory which re­suseitated the team's NCAA tournament hopes. 
"We werP on the bubble," said Bennett, "and beating a top-I 0 team like Syracuse gave us a little respectability. Aftm losing three weeks in a row on na­tional television (to LSU, Duke and Houston), that turned a lot of things around for us." 
Bnmwtt nearly repeated the heroics three days later against DePaul when he converted two free throws with five seconds left to give the Irish a 62-61 lead before Stephen Howard tipped in Chuckie Murphy's er­

rant shot at the buzzer to give 
the Blue Demons a 63-62 win. 

The only way to stop Bennett in recent weeks was to keep him off the playing floor. Suffering from a stomach virus, Bennett was held score­less in just 10 minutes of play during last week's 97-79 loss at Dayton. 
Bennett recently was joined in the starting lineup by forward Daimon Sweet, the second half of Notre Dame's "Texas Express." Aside from being roommates, the two represent a major part of the much-her­aldPd 1988 Irish recruiting class. 
"Wp've been playing together since the beginning of my se­nior year in high school (on several all-star teams)," said Bennett. "We both know what each other is going to do at any time in the game. I know when he is going backdoor. I know when he is going to pop out on the wing for the jump shot." 
Bf'nnett teamed with his brother in the backcourt at Bellaire High School in Houston 

The Observer 

during his freshman year. 
Elmer went on to become the 
school's all-time scoring leader, 
averaging 35.8 points per game 
in his senior campaign. lie also 
was named Mr. Basketball in Texas. 
"Coach (Gene Heffington) turned the offense over to me when everybody graduated be­fore my junior year," said Bf'nrwtt. "lie let me freelance and told me to just go out and score. lie really opened up all of my abilities." 
Those same abilities will be on display Friday at the Hosemont Horizon when Notre Dame concludes its regular season against DePaul. Bennett is all too aware of the game's implications. 
"Wn gavH them a gift by let­ting them back in the game hme," said Bennett. "That's a game that we should have won, but we have to put that in the 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
bark of our minds. "We just have to go down Elmer Bennett has averaged 14.9 points per game for the 16-11 men's therH and beat them." basketball squad, while throwing in 93 assists for good measure. 
Born To Be A 

[}{]®[f)[f)W

Domer 

[ID~ lfl!liucQl®w 
Happy 21st U© Uliu® Birthday, 
~®l?UW~ITU~ ~~@
STOTZ 

Love, 

Love, your "old" Mom & Dad 
college friends 






TEACH FOR AMERICA 
A new national teacher corps 
Teach for two years in inner city and rural area public schools with persistent teacher shortages 
Attend all expen~e paid 8 week training institute in Los Angeles during the summer of 1990. 
Respond to the greatest threat to your country; a failing education system 

Interviews open! Sign up now! 
Interview dates: March 20, 21 
Where to sign up: Career & Placement Service located in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library 

----~---~-­
Thursday, March 8, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Neil Simon's 
COMEDY, SKITS, MUSIC OR ANY OTHER SERIOUS OR OUTRAGEOUS DISPLAY OF TALENTS... 
CALL RAUL AT 1515 OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT 1622 

STUDEHT UNION ao-..kO 
76ers take top spot by beating Knicks 11 0-93 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) ­Charles Barkley had 15 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists and Hersey Hawkins scored 26 points as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the New York Knicks 110-93 Wednesday night to take over first place in the Atlantic Division. 
Philadelphia edged half­game ahead of the Knicks, who lost for the sixth time in their last 10 games. The victory was Philadelphia's third in four games against New York this season. 
The victory also marked 

is looking for a design major or an artistically inclined individual seeking practical experience to fill the following position: 


Graphics Editor 
• 
Responsible for composition of computer graphics for News, Sports and Accent pages 

• 
Will gain valuable experience in MacDraw and Adobe Illustrator and excellent portfolio material for future job or internship searches. 


the first time the 76ers have led their division after 60 games since their 1982~83 NBA championship season. 
Johnny Newman with 26 points, Gerald Wilkins with 23 and Patrick Ewing with 20 led the Knicks. Ewing also grabbed 14 rebounds. 
Philadelphia turned the game into a rout when it scored the last 15 points of the first period to take a 31­14 lead. The Knicks trailed 16-14 with 4:05 left, but did not score again in the quar­ter. 
Hawkins led the 76ers' 
A two-page application, a resume and any relevant work samples should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, March 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 
breakaway with 12, includ­ing a pair of 3-pointers. 
In the second quarter, Philadelphia boosted its lead to 53-28 with 5:38 left in the half. But the Knicks rallied with a 17-7 run to trail 60­45 at halftime. 
New York reduced its deficit to 68-56 with six minutes left in the third pe­riod. But Philadelphia went on to lead 82-66 after three quarters. 
The closest the Knicks got in the final period was 85-70 with 10:40 !o play. 
Lakers 103, Mavs 91 
DALLAS (AP) -James Worthy scored seven consec­utive points late in the fourth quarter Wednesday night, blunting a Dallas rally and leading the Los Angeles Lakers to a 103-91 victory that ended the Mavericks' homecourt winning streak at 10. 
Worthy led the Lakers with 
points and Orlando Woolridge came off the bench to score 22. Magic Johnson scored 21, including 4-for-6 shooting from 3­point range. 
Suns 113, Bullets 111 LANDOVER, Md. (AP) ­Kevin Johnson rebounded his own miss and scored with 
2.7 seconds left Wednesday night, giving the Phoenix Suns a 113-111 victory over the Washington Bullets. 
Tom Chambers scored 44 points, 32 in the second half, to lead the Suns to their third straight victory. 
Blazers 130, Celtics 117 
BOSTON (AP) -Clyde Drexler scored a season­high 39 points one day after scoring a season-low of three, and the Portland Trail Blazers rolled to a 130-117 victory over the Boston Celtics Wednesday nJght. 
The Celtics were led by Larry Bird with 22 points and Reggie Lewis with 20. Portland, which won its third straight, got 18 points from Kevin Duckworth and 16 from Jerome Kersey. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
Feliz Cumpleanos Liz Reilly 

Love, THE QUAD &JIM 
LMU will play in tourney for Gathers'sake 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Loyola Marymount's basketball team, still mourning the death of Hank Gathers, voted Wednesday to play in the NCAA tournament and will dedicate the season to their leader. 
"Hank would want us to play," said Bo Kimble, Gathers' boyhood friend. "He would want us to be stronger. Whenever you were down, he would always try to pick you up and he'd be successful at that. 
"The rest of the season goes to Hank. I'm going to have to get me 70 (points) now." 
Gathers, who led the country in scoring and rebounding last season, died Sunday night after he collapsed at midcourt in the first half of a West Coast Conference tournament game against Portland. The tourna­ment was canceled the next day and the 21st-ranked Lions (23­
5) were declared champions. 
Pairings for the NCAA will be announced Sunday and the tournament begins next Thursday. The decision on whether Loyola should partici­pate was left up to the players. 
"Everybody wants to play, so we're playing. We want to win. We're playing for Hank, case closed," teammate Terrell Lowery said. 
Kimble, who leads the nation in scoring this season, grew up with Gathers in Philadelphia. 
"I think we're going to get back to business," he said. "It will be hard, but I'll be able to get myself going. 
"I might leave with the (Gathers) family tomorrow for Philadelphia. I might stay here until Friday. I'm needed by two families. There's no easy an­swer for me. I want to be there for both families." 
Kimble excelled during the two games that Gathers missed this season. 
On Dec. 19, Kimble scored a school-record 53 points in a 117-113 victory at Oregon State. He scored 46 points in a 136-121 loss to Oklahoma on Dec. 23. 

American Red Cross 


~-~ ----~--~ -~-------­
---------~-----~~~~---­
page 14 
The Observer 

point and 10 ·assists. Junior guard Sara Liebscher, still nursing a sore ankle, saw some playing time Tuesday and added six points for the Irish. 
McGraw hopes Notre Dame's offensive firepower will ride over into Friday's tournament. 
"I feel good about playing Dayton," said McGraw. whose team dominated the Flyers 64­41 on March 1. "Tiwy've got to be a little nervous ab<iut playing us. Then again, they'll be loose because they have nothing to lose." 
Notre Dame, on the other hand. is hoping for its lirst ever NCAA tournament bid. The in­vitations go out on Sunday. MPanwhiln, the 21-6 Irish are riding a I 0-game winning streak. One more victory will break the previous Notre Dame record compiled by tlw 1981-82 and 1985-86 squads. 
junior was chosen as a first­team preseason aii-MCC pick, made the All-Tournament team at the Central Florida Hotary Classic and was named MCC Player-of -the-Week for January 21. In addition, she participated in the 1987 and 1989 Olympic festivals and hopes to be on U.S. National team this summer. 
"Playing at the Olympic Festival was a great experi­ence," said Robinson of the competition in which 200 girls vied for a spot on one of the United States' four regional 
teams. Each squad is com-~!!!!!~~~!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
prised of the top 12 players. "The competition is great and the coaching was really good." 

Hobinson will try out for the National team in May, a step­ping stone to a potential birth on the 1992 Olympic squad. 
"That's something I definitely 
want," said Robinson, whose iiiiili===-~-~::=-~~===::;:~~~:;~;:
aspirations include coaching someday, perhaps after playing in Europe for a few years. TOMORROW . 7:30P.M. 
But for now, Robinson's 
NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
goals center around helping her team in the upcoming MCC tournament. After that, 
Prices: $11.50 & 9.00
Robinson hopes her team will 
*ASK ABOUT SPECIAL
be competing in the NCAAs. 

"It's all up in the air right COURTSIDE SEATS* now, but it would be great,"says Robinson. "Keep your fingers crossed." 

MCC 
continued from page 16 
scoring 25 and 21 points, rn­
spectivnly. In addition, Davis 
led the team in rebounding. 
pulling down 15, while Nowlin 
grabbed nirw off the boards. 
"Before we couldn't score 
from the block." McGraw said. 
"but Margarnt has improved so 
much and Krissi is just playing 
more aggressively . looking to 
scorn and n~ally assuming a 
leadership role on tlw court. 
"Our post players are playing 
extremely WPII. I don't think 
Krissi missed a shot all night." 
Notre Damn did facP sonw 
trouble in thP form of Detroit 
sPnior standout Cheryl Day and 
some impressive outside shoot­
ing. Day had 1S points to part' 
tlw Titans, who stayed dose 
throughout most of thn first 
half and dosPd the Irish lead to 
sevnn with lnss then four min­
utes remaining. 


Robinson 
continued from page 16 
Hobinson personally saw her role switch this ynar. as McGraw changnd hnr from point to shooting guard. While this adjustmnnt took some time. Hobinson has responded positively. averaging over 14.5 points per game. In addition, Hobinson has continued to ful­fill some of her old duties at point guard. leading the team in assists and steals. while re­maining a leader on the court. 
"I try to make sure everyone knows what is going on," said Hobinson. "and I try to keep us talking. Wlwn I'm not scoring, I try to snt up thn girls inside." 
Both Robinson and McGraw see the team captain's strongest asset in her speed. While at times she is encour­aged to hold bark, the squad rdies on Hobinson to piek up the pace of the game when the Irish get sluggish. The 5-6 guard is nicknamed "K-Roeks", as in "Kamn Roeks"-evideneed when Robinson takes charge of the game by rocking opponents with steals, fast breaks and quiek. crueial baskets. 
"I like pressure situations, I think they're a challenge," said Hobinson. "Sometimes I'll con­sciously try to spned up the game and make things happen, but other times a few good things will just happen and we're on a roll." 
Robinson adds that she tries to vary her speed levels to eon­fuse opponents and maintain control at all times. Her major problem, claims the American Studies major, is keeping from 

"We didn't play very good de­fense." commented McGraw. "We were so worried about packing our zone around Da.y that we opened up their outside shot." 
McGraw added that Day, and the Detroit squad as a whole, played much better than when Notre Dame trounced them 99­58 on Feb. 15. 
"They wen~ more effectivn getting the ball insidn to Day." said McGraw. "Siw had three three-point plays in the first half, getting the burket and drawing the foul. Plus, they were hot from the outside. They shot almost 45 percent. which is about as good as they'rp going to shoot." 
Notn~ Dame meanwhih\ shot 67 percent. Contributing to that ligurn were guards Karen Hobinson and Coquese Washington. Hobinson scored 17, while Washington had 11 
Karen Robinson 

getting nverly psyched. 
"I havo. to be sure and relax before the games and concen­trate on what we're going to do." 
McGraw, meanwhile, thinks Hobinson is the best player in the Midwest Collegiate Conference. 
"She may not win the league's award. but she definitely de­serves it," said McGraw of Hobinson. who has earned 13 spots in the Notre Dame record books. including one as the best Irish free throw shooter ever, with a 78.8 percentage. "Sheryl Porter (Loyola) may have a lit­tle higher stats, but we're the number one team, largely due to Karen." 
Hobinson's leadership, on a team with only one senior, often extends off the court. 
"Lisa, Sara and Krissi are all leaders in their own right," re­marks McGraw of teammates Kuhns, Liebscher and Davis, "but Karen is the most vocal. Because of her personality, the 
girls look to her. She talks a lot and fires everyone up." 
Hobinson's talents have been recognized outside the Notre Dame community as well. The 

FULL SERVICE FLORIST 
Balloon Plants Bouquets Bouquets Corsages Arrangement Oish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil 
.----------------------,
10°/o OFF CASH AND CARRyt with SMC or ~-D..!ll!f!E!.I!t..!P..J 
-.a-. d ....... Soutai olUIIIwslllty "--I ...... PllllwwMa. m4GM~ 
5901 Grape Rd.
277-1291 

Thursday, March 8, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 

Thursday 
4:15p.m. "The Curator's Workplace: A Movable Feast." Jack Sewell, Art Institute of Chicago. Annenberg Audito­rium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by the Snite Mu­seum of Art. 
CAMPUS 

Thursday 
Mid Semester Deficiency Reports due in Registrar's of­fice 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chinese Pork Roast Cajun Scrod Veg. Casserole Fried Bologna Sandwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
ACROSS 
1 Ma Bell's boy 51ntimate 9 Cob or pen 
13 Hop stem 14 Forfeits 16 "F?,r-jolly 
17 Start of a quip 20 Sanctioned 21 Wadi's kin 22 Fellow citizen 23 Noisy 

disagreement 24 Seamlike joining, in anatomy 
27 Domino spots 28 Daxor Ems 31 Part of N.A.M. 32 November tally 33 Strikebreaker 34 Middle of quip 37 Formerly 38 Approaching 
100 39 Rx items 40 Breezy turndown 41 Pleased 42 Sounds of alarm 43 Blokes 44 Converse 46-Madre 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49 Is devious 53 End of quip 55 F.F.V. folks 56 Raison­57 Annapolis inst. 58 Koppel and 
Knight 59 Make strips 60 After: Prefix 
DOWN 

1 Chanteuse Lane 2Title 
encumbrance 3 Writer Bagnold 4 He fears 
strangers 5 By a whisker 

26 Prepare oneself 35 Flagpole rope mentally 
36 "The-of the 27 Studied in depth King": Tennyson 28Wild duck 
41 Revered leader 
29 Coat with plaster 43 Offensive30 Ocean deep 44 Headgear for a
32 "Las-Lady," 

princess
1976film 33 Begins to play a 45 "Lou Grant" star song 46 Mariner 
SPELUNKER 
47 Conversation filler 
48 Took a look 
49 Dish out 
50 Phrase for Mr. Mota 51 Puts on 52 Thwack 54 Concorde, for 
one 
JAY HOSLER

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

f'///U///UU/U//~UUU...w-HH'/AVHAV'/U/.h WUH'U//UU/~/U//UUU~///~U/UhVA ~H.(Y...w-HH'AW.UU~///////HUH'UU~/~UUUUH'U~~UUUH'/UUAV/U~ 
~ ~  ~  [lJJ ill  commissioner Rppl/ctJ tlons  MOVIE  ~frQ  ~@(!J]a  @[jl)@]  fr~@  ~@~WI~~~J./ ~  
~  ~  
~  Special Euents  The  Performing  ~  
~ ~ ~  Performing Arts Ideas and Issues  Unbearable Lightness ofBeing  Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon  ~ ~ ~  
~  Campus Entertainment  A  Lovers  Story  ~  
~  Mouies  Seruices  March 22nd and 23rd  ~  
~ ~  Publicity  Music  Washington Hall 8:00pm  ~ ~  
~ ~  Pick up Applications at Secretary's Desk, 2nd Floor, Lafonune.  Cushing Auditorium 7:30 and 11 :00 p.m.  Tickets: $3.00  at LaFortune Info Desk  ~ ~  
~  Applications due  $2 .0 0  All proceeds go to St. Hedwigs Outreach Center  jRr,.~  
~  Wednesday, March 21  ,and the South Bend Women's Care Center.  _l.U;'~  

~ --~
WUUU/U////////U/UAVUH'//AVAVU~~.h ~...w-HH'U/U//UU~UUU///~/UU//..QM WUH'AVAVAWUU/HH'~UHUH/UUU//UU/~U/UUU/U~AV////AV..QM ~ 

~-.---------.----~--------------~------· 
The Observer I E.G. Bailey 
Sophomore point guard Elmer Bennett has been hot for the Irish as of late. Bennett recorded a career high 22 points against Kentucky and in the last 13 games, he has lifted his scoring average from 8.1 to 10.7 points per game by scoring in double figures 1 0 times. 
Robinson leads ND to 21-6 record 
I I 
I f 


Sports
page 16 Thursday, March 8, 1990 
Bennett keeps his half of the Texas Express in overdrive 
Irish count on Bennett . · ·· ·· . ~·' in new point guard role 
BY FRANK PASTOR Bennett took over the starting Sports Writer point guard duties from Tim Singleton when the Irish hosted Stacy Bennett always pushed Marquette Feb. 14. Head Coach his younger brother to play Digger Phelps moved Bennett to harder. the point to add more scoring 
But this time he went too far. punch to the Irish lineup. 
Playing a local pickup game Since entering the starting in Houston, Texas, Bennett lineup, Bennett has averaged used his size and strength 14.9 points per game, including advantage to outmuscle scoring in double figures in 10 younger brother Elmer's of the past 13 games. For the desperate attempts to defend season. Bennett has scored him. 10.7 points per contest and has 
With a tear in his eye, Elmer 93 total assists. angrily turrwd to his brother "We needed more scoring and said, "I'm going to be bet­from the point guard position," ter than you someday." said Bennett. "If you don't take 
Stacy Bennett is now playing the shot, (opponents) are going in his second season at to collapse even more on the in­Southwest T1~xas State. Elmer, side. So you've got to make expected to start his eighth them respect you from the out­straight game at point guard side. for Notre Dame Saturday "If they come out, then you've against DePaul, credits his got LaJ>honso (Ellis), Keith older brother for forcing him Hobinson and Scott Paddock to play to his potential. down low." 
"lie always pushed me to play Kentucky clamped down on hard. and knew I could do well the Irish frontcourt on Monday one day," said Bennett. "lie is only to watch Bennett burn the probably one of the main rea­
see BENNETT I page 12 
sons I am where I am today." 

By CHRIS COONEY complishments of junior guard afraid to shoot thP jumpPr or Sports Writer Karen Hobinson, who seored drive to the basket." her l,OOOth career point last While Hobinson humbly ad­
If the Notre Dame women's week, while serving as a cata­mits her role as team leader, basketball team receives a lyst to the surging Irish squad. the Turnersville. N.J nativ11 is first-ever invitation to the But Notre Dame head coach quick to pass the praise around NCAA tournament on Sunday, Muffet MeGraw insists that to other members of the t11am they'll have to thank one person Hobinson's leadership extends when describing this year's in particular. Who can deny beyond the statistics. sucenss. the impact of a player who "The thing that makes her so "Tiw attitude is so much bPt­leads the team in scoring, as­important to us is her atti-ter this year in comparison to sists and free throw percent­. tude," says McGraw. "She fires last," says Hobinson. age, while executing a fast­the team up and gets us going. "Evnryone is comfortabln in paced game plan and leading Karen is feisty on defense while their role and everybody knows the Irish to a record of 21-6? she's a scoring threat ofTen­what we haye to do to win." 
There's not much that hasn't sively. The other teams have to already been said about the ac-guard her because she's not 
see ROBINSON I page 14 
Irish ride streak into MCC tourney 
By CHRIS COONEY 0 record in the Midwest "It's getting really hard for Sports Writer Collegiate Conference, Notre the other teams to guard Dame already has been de­us, "said Irish head coach 
After downing Detroit 86-72 clared conference champs. Muffet McGraw. "Everyone is Tuesday night and completing Dominating the other teams, playing extremely well. If the its MCC schedule undefeated, the Irish have won 20 straight opponent focuses on Karen, we the Notre Dame women's bas­in the MCC, having lost only two ean go inside to Krissi or ketball team is ready for the games in 29 since joining the Margaret." conference tournament this league last year. McGraw's words rang true in weekend in Dayton, Ohio. The Tuesday's matchup with the Detroit. While early in the sea­Irish, seeded first, will take on Lady Titans proved that the son the third-year eoach had No. 4 seed Dayton at 3:30 p.m. Irish are peaking at just the been worried about the Irish on Friday. The victor will play right time. Four players scored inside game, forwards Krissi
The Observer I Bill Mowle 
the winner of the Butler and in double figures, demonstrat­Davis and Margaret Nowlin put
Karen "K-Rock" Ro'Jinson has led the Notre Dame women's basketball 
Marquette conte~t at 1p.m. on ing Notre Dame's ability to that fear to rest Tuesday night.
team in scoring, steals, assists and free throw percentage en route to 
Saturday. score from any part of the
helping the Irish to a perfect MCC record and a 21-6 record overall. see MCC I page 14 
After com iling a. perfect 16-floor. 

ND/SMC equestrian club in full trot, holds first ever show 
There is an old proverb that Mike Kamradt Teresa Uhoda turned in the best performance for with a third in Hunt Walk-Trot-Canter. says you learn something new the Irish with a second place in stock (Western) Karen Voltura and Teresa Uhoda each had two everyday. Well, here is the Club Corner walk-trot while teammate Eric lvanovich placed fourth places in Stock Walk Trot. Mike Santori fact of the day: Notre Dame third. Jennifer Strasser rode to the tune of a third turned in a couple fifths in Hunt Walk Trot and Eric has an place in Hunt (English) walk-trot. Angela Cutrona lvanovich came up with a fifth and sixth in Stock Equestrian Club. Actually, its called the Notre finished sixth in Hunt Novice Flats (a category re-Walk Trot. Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian Team and the club q~~ring more _showmanship). The Saint Mary's Equestrian Club (separate from rncently staged the first horse show in the history of Ihe followmg weekend, the club travelled to the one above) sent four riders to the Notre Dame on February 17 and 18. The event. held Purdue to ride against the same slew of teams, and Northwestern/Notre Dame Horseshow over at Culver Military Academy, was co-hosted with this time improved to a fifth place overall. February 17-18. 
Northwestern. " It was definitely a big improvement," commented Anna Stackpoole took a first and second in 
"Northwestern helped us host because we had no Santori." We had more people and everyone placed." Beginners Walk Trot while teammate Kristina 
exp11rience," explained show chairperson and club Angela Cutrona and Jennifer Strasser were busy Neville placed fourth and sixth in two heats. Hobin 
member Michael Santori. Over 200 riders from 11 women for the club, competing in four and three Deal finished first in Advance Walk-Trot-Canter and 
schools, including Ball State, Indiana, Purdue and events, respectively. Cutrona took a third in Novice sixth in Advanced Stock Seat. Emily Kline leaped 
Illinois, came out to strut their stuff. The ND/SMC Fences, fourth in another Novice Fences heat, fifth and bounded to a third in Intermediate Fences and 
team finished seventh. in Novice Flats and sixth in another Novice Flats. took a fifth in Advanced Stock seat as well. 
"We were very pleased," stated Santori. "We in-Each class usually has 10 riders. Meanwhile, The Rowing Club will take men's and women's 
tend to have it again next year. The problem this Strasser took a fourth and fifth in Hunt Seat Walk-teams to Austin, Texas over Spring Break. The 
weekend was that it was .JPW and we were missing Trot and a sixth in a Stock Seat Walk Trot. Bridget squads will train for the week of the Break and then 
a lot of riders." Murphy had the best place of the day for the club will compete in a regatta on St. Patrick's Day. 





