
VOL. XXIII NO. 13 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 12, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

President Bush is shown working on his speech in the Oval Office of the White House Tuesday. Bush addressed a joint session of Congress on the Persian Gulf crisis Tuesday night. 
'Teach-in' announced by peace coalition 
By CORINNE PAVLIS 
SMC Editor 
The coalition for Peace and Justice, a conglomeration of six local peace groups, has an­nounced that a "Teach-In" will be held on Sunday, September 23 to discuss the crisis in the Middle East. 
The Coalition was created when Pledge of Resistance, NOW, Sane-Freeze, WILPF, Cit­izens of Hope, and the UN As­sociation merged to address the crisis. 
The Teach-In will include leaders from the six groups and the former national head of Sane Freeze who now works at the Notre Dame Peace Institute. 
The goal of the panel discus­sion is to invite experts on the subject, such as historical ex­pert Patrick Gaffney, to come in and share their knowledge. The Teach-In will run from 1:30-6:00 p.m at the First United Methodist Church on Main St. in South Bend. 
Peter Smith, a Saint Mary's mathematics professor, has been actively involved in the planning and execution of the Coalition events. Smith, head of 
see PEACE/page 5 


An American soldier trying to catch up on current events and the latest sports scores gets some help translating an Arabic newspaper Monday at a Saudi supermarket in AI-Khobar. 

Bush says US policy on Iraq cannot be changed 
WASHINGTON -(AP) Presi­dent Bush said his heart went out to the families of the hun­dreds of Americans held hostage by Iraq, but he de­clared, "Our policy cannot change, and it will not change. America and the world will not be blackmailed." 
The address was Bush's third appearance before Congress during his 20 months in office. He was greeted by prolonged applause from those assembled in the House chamber, including the Congress and his Cabinet. Also in the audience were the ambassador from Iraq, Mo­hamed Sadiq Al-Mashat, and the ambassador from the con­quered nation, Kuwaiti Ambassador Sheik Saud Nasir Al-Sabah. 
Bush said that if the United States had not reacted swiftly to Iraq's invasion, it would have been "a signal to actual and potential despots around the world.... America must stand up to aggression, and we will," he said. 
"And one thing more -in pursuit of these goals, America will not be intimidated," Bush said. "Vital issues of principle are at stake. Saddam Hussein is literally trying to wipe a country off the face of the Earth. We do not exaggerate. Nor do we exaggerate when we say, Saddam Hussein will fail." 
Bush told Congress there were high costs involved in the showdown that "conservation efforts are essential to keep our energy needs as low as possible." 
He also hinted that the United States could dip into its Strategic Petroleum Reserve "if conditions warrant." The reserve is the nation's 590 million-barrel stockpile of oil. 
Bush called on Congress to pass legislation this month to spur domestic energy produc­tion and foster conservation. 
In particular, Bush cited tax incentives for domestic oil and gas exploration, fuel­switching and acceleration of oil drilling in Alaska "without damage to the wildlife." 
Bush used the speech to ex­plain anew the high stakes for the United States in the oil­rich Middle East. 
He said Iraq, by itself, con­trolled 10 percent of the world's petroleum reserves and doubled its holdings by invading Kuwait. If Ir·aq had gone unchallenged, Bush said, it would be able "to intimidate and coerce its neighbors ­neighbors who control the lion's share of the world's re­maining oil reserves. 
"We cannot permit a re­source so vital to be dominated by one so ruthless. And we won't," the president said. 
He said there was an un­precedented level of world co­operation against Iraq, with armed forces from many countries united to deter any attack on Saudi Arabia. 

The Observer/Eric Bailey 

Members of the Coalition for Peace and Justice held a protest march Friday in South Bend. The coalition hoped to bring attention to the need for UN involvement in the Middle East conflict to replace U.S. forces. 
Russian parliament endorses sweeping economic reforms 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russia's parliament voted overwhelm­ingly Tuesday for a radical economic reform program, and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev said he favored it over a moderate plan proposed by his prime minister. 
Gorbachev's surprise state­ment undercut the authority of Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov and added momentum to calls for Ryzhkov's resignation. 
It also increased the chances that the radical plan, drafted largely by economist Stanislav Shatalin, will go into effect throughout the Soviet Union. 
Shatalin 's plan calls for transferring most economic authority from the national government to the country's 15 constituent republics. The republics could then move rapidly to free prices, privatize government industries, legalize private ownership of land and take other steps toward a market­based economy. 
The national Supreme Soviet legislature and the parliament of Russia, the largest of the 15 republics, met separately Tuesday to consider the competing proposals. 
Ryzhkov addressed the na­tional legislature in a cav­ernous marble hall at the Kremlin, the centuries-old walled fortress that is the seat of communist power. 
He charged that the Shatalin plan would lower living stan­dards by 30 percent, force one out of every four collective farms into bankruptcy, and cause rapid inflation by decontrolling prices on about 7 5 percent of basic consumer products. 
Ryzhkov called for retaining central control over the econ-
see REFORMS/page 6 


-----~--~-------,---~-----------­
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © ~ ... 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Who said Notre Dame is homogenous? 
Confession: I'm in 
--------­way over my head. As a writer, I make a great cartoonist. In desperate need of a topic this afternoon, I went to the Huddle. My hope was that the students there would inspire me. As I sat in Jay Hosler my booth, the ideas slowly began to pre-Staff Cartoonist cipitate. 
The first thought I had was to write about the guy sitting directly to my right. This re­fined young college male sat there shoveling food into his mouth in an appalling porcine frenzy. This topic, however, seemed a little off-color so I decided it had no place in my article. 
Fortunately, this culinary cacophony did make me look up from the blank sheet in front of me. Suddenly I saw the Huddle like I had never seen it before. I was surrounded by various camps of Notre Dame students. 
The first that I noticed was a group I call the Eco-chic (EC). These granola chomping, nouveu-environmentalists have become Earth's mega-hip saviors. Of course, they might be sincere. Oops! Maybe not. I just saw one of them throw an aluminum can into the regular trash. (Honest) 
Across the way, two tables of the J. Crew Crowd (JCC) are sitting around discussing their latest mail-order mania. Their lives are simple; look ultra-swanky and hang out with your own kind. Near them are sitting five Polo-people (PP). 
These folks are a little more aloof than the JCC. That's because their clothes cost more. The JCC knows this and they spend their time kissing up to the PP (the JCC secretly hates the PP, but realizes they may have to work for them some day). 
Off in the corner, I noticed a small group of the Dead!Rastafarians (DR). I can't tell how many there are beacause they're lost in a mass of off the rack tie-dyes and funny smoke. They seem to be making fun of the JCC and PP. 
The JCC and PP, in turn, are throwing aerosol cans at the EC who are casting aspersions on the JCC, PP, EC, and the Euro-Hip (EH) and Jocks (J) that just 
walked in. 

So what's the point of this student body taxonomy? In the final evaluation, I guess it's a weak analogy to the fragmenting American scene. Special interest groups and all that stuff. But the big point of this is a warning. 
I left one group unmentioned; the Dorks. A wily and subversive lot, they are the ones that have been the charter members in groups like the JCC, PP, EC, EH, DR, and J. Why? Divide and conquer, of course. 
While they've got everybody else worrying about what to wear and how to act, dork operatives are infiltrating the highest eche­lons of society. Don't believe me? Take a look at Bush, Quayle and the administrators here at Notre Dame. Or, should I say Notre Dork? 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
News  Sports  
Carolyn Amann Paul Pearson  Systems Mark Sloan  Chris Cooney  
Mike Owen  Mike Murphy  Production wendy Cunningham  
Accent  Graphics  Kelly Lynch  
Paige A. Smoron  Michael Muldoon  
John Fischer  Scoreboard  
Circulation  Ken Tysiac  
Ad Design  Bill O'Rourke  
Cara Eckman  Man Novak  V"leWI)Oint  
Mario Siguenzo  Beth Peterson  
Kelly McHugh  Kathy Welsh  

Jean-Philippe Thole Maria Blohm 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduct1on rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
---­ --­ 
~-----------·­ 
WEATHER  

Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 12. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
~ lU] EZj 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

1990-91 CSC Van Drivers' seminar will be held at the Center for Social Concerns on today and Thursday, Sept. 12, at 4:30 pm. This class is mandatory for everyone who plans to drive a esc van during 1990­
91. If you took the class during 1989~90 there is no need to repeat it. 
The Notre Dame Technical Review will hold an organizational meeting for the 1990-91 academic year tonight at 6:00 pm in the Cushing Hall Auditorium. 
Student Union Board will hold an organizational meeting for the Music Commission in the Montgomery Theatre of Lafortune Hall from 7:00 pm to 7:30pm tonight. 
Undergraduate Schools Committe~ will hold the last training session tonight at 7:00 pm m the auditorium of Hayes-Healy. New members who haven't yet attended a session should plan on m~k~ng t~nig~t's meeting. Past participants who want to VISit their high schools again this year can sign up between 7:00 pm and 
8:00 pm outside the meeting. 
WORLD 

Nelson Mandela accused the government of South Africa Tuesday of waging war against his African National Congress and said failure to halt black factional fighting threatened talks on ending apartheid Mandela held an urgent meeting with President F.W. de Klerk as vicious black factional fighting left 

at least 24 
people dead. Police said unrest_ in black _townsh~ps around Johannesburg continued mto the mght, with shacks burned in Tokoza and running clashes betwe.en black factions in Katlehong. 
INDIANA 

The state doesn't have to pay the cost of desegregating Indianapolis schools, a federal judge has ruled. U.S. District Judge S. Hugh Dillin dismissed a motion by the Indianapolis Public Schools on Monday which sought $67 million in additional state funding for programs and staff. "You're falling down on the job," Dillin said during a pre-trial conference, referring to disci­plinary problems and low test scores in the dis­trict. "I don't know whose fault it is except IPS.' Six Marion County townships that receive black students from IPS have been receiving state de­segregation funds since Dillin ordered cross-dis­trict busing in 1981. 
MARKET UPDATE 


{} 7.53 S&P Composite 321.04 {} .59 Dow Jones Industrials 2,612.62 {} 7.53 
Precious Metals 

Gold "'J $1.90 to $ 378.60/oz. Silver "'J 2.2¢ to$ 4.777/ oz. 
Women United for Justice and Peace 
will hold its first meeting tonight at 7:00pm at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Campus bands and musicians interested in playing on the quad Sept. 28 should sign up in Montgomery Theatre tonight from 7:30 pm -8:00 pm. Any musicians who are not in bands can sign up for our musician register at this time. 
Le Cercle Francais -the NO/Saint Mary's French Club -will have its first meeting of the year tonight at 7:30 pm in 115 O'Shaughnessy. Refreshments will be served. 
The Japan Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 8:15 pm in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
The South Carolina Club will have an organizational meeting tonight at 9:30 pm in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. If you have any questions call Shaun at 283-1696. 
The heaviest single-day rainfall in 70 years drenched South Korea on Tuesday, killing at least 45 people and forcing more than 350,000 to flee their homes.President Rob Tae-woo said relief efforts were like "fighting a war." The Seoul area was swamped by 15 inches of rain in 24 hours. The most rain fell at Suwon, just south of Seoul, which had 16.8 inches, the main dis­aster relief center said. A 1 00-yard section of the Han River's bank just west of Seoul burst overnight, sending tons of water into a farming area of rice paddies and vil­lages. Officials said that 300,000 residents were being 
evacuated. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Yesterday's High: 7 4 Yesterday's Low: 62 Nation's High: 11 7 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's Low: 62 
(Pinedale, Wyo.) Forecast: Cloudy and warm today with a 40% chance of thunderstorms. The high will be 80. Continued cloudy tonight with a low in the mid-60's. Thursday will be cloudy with a high expected in the mid-80's. 
ALMANAC 
On September 12: 
eln 1913: Olympic legend Jesse Owens was born in Danville, Ala. 
eln 1960: Democratic presidential candidate John F. Kennedy con­fronted the issue of his Roman Catholic faith by telling a Protes­tant group in Houston, "I do not speak for my church on public matters, and the church does not speak for me." 
eln 1977: South African black student leader Steven Biko died while in police custody, triggering an international outcry. 
eln 1987: Democrat Joseph Biden's presidential bid began to unravel with reports he had bor­rowed passages of a speech by British politician Neil Kinnock without attributing the source. 


Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
New hotel planned at Saint Mary's campus
Names are being taken with By MELISSA MCANDREWS the hope that the hotel will be 
Assistant SMC Editor 
Groundbreaking for a new hotel being built by Holladay Corporation, in collaboration with the Sisters of Saint Mary's will soon begin on Saint Mary's campus. 
The hotel is to be contracted and managed by Holladay Cor­poration on a lease from the Sisters of Saint Mary's. 
Groundbreaking on this new project is scheduled to take place within the next month. It will be a three story facility, consisting of 122 units, located on land north of Douglas Road, just west of Rt. 33. 

United Way 
It brings out the best in all of I.K" 
For those interested in joiJtling the 
ND-SMC Pre-Law Society, 

there will be a general me!eting on Monday, September 17, at 7 p.m. in the Cushing Auditorium. All are encouraged to attend. 



DAILY EVENTS SEPTEMBER 9-14,1990 
EXHIBITION OF AFRICAN ART AND CI~OTHING 
HESBURGH LIBRARY LOBBY AND 
DOOLY ROOM -LAFORTUNE STUDENT 
CENTER 
10:00 am -4:00pm 
DOCUMENTARY VIDEOS ON AFRICA: "The Africans", by Ali Mazrui 
TRADITIONAL AND MODERN AFRICAN MUSIC 
MONTGOMERY THEATER-LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 12 noon -1:00 pm 

Senior Bar announces new hours 
page 3 

By JOE GODIN 
News Writer 
The Alumni Senior Club and the Graduate Student Union (GSU) have designated 5 to 9 
p.m. Friday nights at the Club for graduate students, faculty and staff members only. 
But, on Fridays before home football games, the Club will open at 9 p.m. and undergrad­uates will be admitted. 
Lawrence Briggs, manager of the Club, has been working for a couple of years on a way to involve graduate students with undergraduate social life. Last summer he met with represen­tatives from the Graduate Stu­dent Union to try to get some­thing going for graduate stu­dents. 
"We felt that the Alumni Se­nior Club had the right facilities to give graduates, faculty, and staff a place to go to and be social at," Briggs said. 
"The GSU is concerned that not enough is going for them [graduate students]. Notre Dame wants them to get in­volved in student life, " he said. "Right now, the undergradu­ates are the school. Notre Dame wants the graduates to feel a part of the Notre Dame family. I'm here to help them achieve that goal." 
The decision about desig­nated hours was made by Briggs and the GSU. The GSU requested that the hours be 5 to 9 p.m. to give the opportunity for social and intellectual interaction for graduate stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
About sixty people were pre­sent the inauguration of the hours, according to Briggs. "The graduates really enjoyed it. Hopefully it will pick up once the word gets out and people know about this," he said. 
The president of the GSU also had an optimistic view of the first night. "From what we have heard it has been a big success and will improve sec­ond semester when there are no home football games," said Raynold Messiva, president of the GSU. 
One graduate student was in­different to the opening of the bar exclusively to graduates. "They haven't marketed it very well. It won't make much dif­ference because the graduates can go anytime they want," said Jared des Rosiers, a second year law student. 
Nonetheless, both the GSU and Briggs are optimistic about the future of the weekly activity. "We believe that the bar will become a fixture in the future of graduate student activity," said Messiva. "The first night was fair and as time goes on it should get better." said Briggs. 
Briggs has been the full-time manager of the Club for four years. Before he became man­ager, the bar was run by stu­dents. The bar, located beyond the football stadium, is open Wednesday through Saturday at 9 p.m. and serves lunch on Fridays. 
--~ -~ ~~---~-~---~---­
page 4 

Panel says US should withdraw its troops 
By JEFF SWANSON 
News Writer 

Robert Johansen, Senior Fel­low of the Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, called for the the gradual withdrawal of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia and the replacement of those troops with UN peace keeping forces. · 
"With a predominantly U.S. force there, it is too easy for some to see this as a U.S. effort against Iraq rather than as a universal norm being upheld by the world community against one deviant actor, the Iraqi government," said Johansen. 
Johansen and David Cor­tright, a visiting faculty profes­sor of the Peace Institute, spoke about the crisis in a panel discussion on Tuesday titled, "Assessing the Middle East Conflict: What Are the Op­tions?" 
Johansen argued that if the predominantly U.S. force was replaced with a UN peace keep­ing force, Hussein would be more likely to back down. "He could back down in the name of being a good international citi­zen," said Johansen. 
Cortright also argued that the 
U.S. force should be replaced. He said, "I believe that it is essential that the U.S. halt its military buildup, pursue a peaceful negotiated solution to the crisis and begin to with­draw American forces in favor of an Arab or UN peace keeping presence." 
Cortright said, "There is no military solution to this crisis." He said that a negotiated solu­tion is in the best interests of the thousands of hostages in Iraq and Kuwait. 
Johansen said that a war would be very costly and that it probably would not be over soon. He said that the U.S. 
&•aAmerican Heart 



"4Y. Association 

would probably lose interna­tional support if it launched an offensive strike and that the gains of such an attack would be unclear. 
Cortright questioned the mo­tive of the military buildup. "The President is prepared to spill American blood, and Arab blood too, to protect our grossly extravagant and wasteful consumption of oil in this country, " he said. 
Cortright said, "The U.S. can do without oil from the Middle East entirely if we really get se­rious about energy consump­tion at home." 
Both Johansen and Cortright agreed that an international force would be appropriate to secure the Persian Gulf re­gion. "I would submit that the best way to support our troops is to move toward a negotiated peaceful solution and to begin to replace American soldiers with a genuine multinational peace keeping presence," said Cortright 
---~~~--~~--­
The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 

APPhoto


Actor's first exhibit 
Actor, director, and writer Sylvester Stallone stands before one of his 20 oil paintings on display during the opening of his first exhibition in Beverly Hills, Ca., Monday evening. Known for his macho roles in "Rocky" and "Rambo" films, Stallone often paints his film characters prior to playing them. 

TONIGHT 






PANEL DISCUSSION AND RECEPTION 
Recent Political Developments in Southern Africa Eng i n e e ri n g A u d i tori u m 7:30pm 
& Thursday, September 13 Fireside Chat The Crisis of the Post-Independence African State Theodore's Theatre -LaFortune 7:00pm 
WALKAWAY ... 
0A NOONTIME WALKING PROG~. '\M FOR FITNESS 

LUNCHTIME ON TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS STARTS SEPTEMBER 18 12:15-12:45PM 
ENJOY FRESH AIR AND GOOD COMPANY MEET IN FRONT OF WASHINGTON HALL BY 12:15 WEAR GOOD WALKING SHOES 
2 Ml LE ROUTES MODERATE PACE 

SPONSORED BY NVA 
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 
If you've participated in the past as an ambassador to your high school and are interested in returning again this year, you only need to update our files with current information. Sign up in the auditorium of Hayes-Healy between 7:00-8:00 p.m. tonight, or in the Admissions Office (113 Main Bldg) before September 18th. Any questions? Call Angela (x4895) or Susan (x3563). 
Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
Doe's murder makes 



Liberian crisis worse 

APPhoiO

Call for war 
Demonstrators carry a large placard that calls for all people to join the effort for a Jihad, or holy war, during a protest rally in Baghdad, Monday. The protest eventually marched on the American Embassy in Baghdad. 
MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) ­Troops loyal to slain President Samuel Doe bombarded rebels from atop the executive man­sion Tuesday, and a West African leader said Doe's death would make it more difficult to end the war. 
TWo days after rebels led by Prince Johnson attacked Doe and his entourage at the headquarters of the West African task force, the late president's men used heavy cannons to beat back insurgents. 
Throughout Monrovia, shells exploded and gunfire crackled as Prince Johnson's fighters scoured the city for Doe loyal­ists. 
Survivors from Doe's elite presidential guard turned heavy artillery, placed on the roof of the seaside executive mansion, onto the rebels and the war-ravaged city. The guns normally face out toward the Atlantic Ocean. 
Gambian President Sir Dawda Jawara said Doe's men had asked the five-nation West African force to help them evacuate the capital. Jawara said aid would be offered on humanitarian grounds .. 
"I think it is now urgent to try and do something about protecting these 230 or so Doe supporters from factional or tribal revenge," said Jawara, chairman of the 16-member Economic Community of West African States. 
The Community ordered a 3,000-member task force into Liberia last month to help quell the 8 1/2-month-old civil war, often marked by tribal fighting. The soldiers are from Nigeria, Ghana, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Gambia. 
Jawara, who was visiting Zimbabwe, said that rather than speeding the war's end, Doe's death Monday likely would increase bloodshed. 
Witnesses said Doe's muti­lated body was on display at Johnson's headquarters outside the city. Johnson had said Doe would be court­martialed, but within a day of his capture Sunday he was reported dead from gunshot wounds. 
The West African force com­mander, Lt. Gen. Arnold Quainoo of Ghana, said Tuesday that 78 people were killed when Johnson's men at­tacked Doe's entourage on Sunday. Among the dead was Defense Minister Brig. Gen. J. Boima Barclay. 
Quainoo said in a statement 
Doe told him he had come to express his surprise that Quainoo had not paid him a courtesy call. 
The statement said: "General Doe talked at length to the effect that he was not ready to submit the sovereignty of his country to any power or indeed regional organization." 

is seeking people for the paid position of: 
Ad Designer 
If you are interested and have Monday or Wednesday afternoons free, call Amy Eckert at 239-5303 or 283-4624. 
,..
! 
~ 
'­
~ ~ 
'­
~ 
Oilll 
~ 
'­



Peace 
continued from page 1 
the Pledge of Resistance, is one of the organizers for next weeks Teach-In. He described the six main goals for the event: 
• 
The Historical background of the area 

• 
The economical concerns for American dependence on Middle Eastern oil 

• 
The historical role of the United nations. 

• 
American military role and options 

• 
Possible peace keeping tac­tics 

• 
The social and economic costs of U.S. involvement 


"Our main goal and topic of discussion for the event is nego­tiation, not confrontation," stated Smith. Other events with this same goal included a press conference and march last week. The press conference, held last Tuesday, outlined the Coalition's eight main policy goals: 
...............................................................................................................................,:.............................................................. 
ALL MARRIED STUDENfS, FACULTY AND STAFF ARE Il\NITED TO: 
TAKE SOME TIME TO lENllUCIHl YOUR MARRIAGE 
ina Marriage Enrichment Program from Campus Ministry 
Using the ENRICH Inventory, couples look at areas of your marriage: 
Communication, Resolving Conflict, Finances, Children and Parenting, 
Families and Friends, Sexuality, Religion 
and discuss issues of similar and different perspective. 
This is a two-session program. Each session will be offered twice. In Session I couples will take the inventory. 
• 
The U.S. will not make a first strike. This would include the invasion of Iran since the function of U.S. presence is to defend. 

• 
Organized negotiations be­tween the U.N and Arab Coun­tries. 

• 
Replacement of U.S. troops with UN forces 

• 
Development of a national alternative energy policy to re­duce American dependence of Middle Eastern oil 

• 
Condemnation of the im­plicit racism and sexism which currently exists in U.S. armed forces and the Middle East. 

• 
Establishing self-determina­tion for all people in the region. 

• 
Urging for a meeting of conflict resolution experts to work with President Bush, Congress, and the media to look for alternatives to the present military solution. 

• 
Outrage and sadness at the enormous cost in dollars, en­ergy, and lives involved in our military deployment. 


The coalition also organized a
" 
I 
I ~ 
~ ~ 
~
! 
...: 
~ 
~ 
~ 


march last Friday. Participants met at the Viet Nam Veterans Memorial in Howard Park. The groups marched through South Bend carrying the UN flag to symbolize the "focus on the need for involvement of the UN" said Smith. 
The march ended at the busy Federal Building in downtown South Bend as city employees were getting off work. The marchers received a police escort though no problems arose. The event ended as the marchers sang "We Shall Over­come" in unison. 
Smith hopes that the march, as well as the press conference and scheduled Teach-In will in­crease awareness and involve­ment in the area. 
"I would like to see SMC women learn as much as they can about the issue so that they can call or write the White House to urge President Bush to pull out U.S. troops in favor of UN peace keeping task force," Smith said. 
Corre.ction 
The Student Senate story in Tuesday's Observer was incorrect. It should have read "The amendment states that in the event of a vacancy in the office of class president, the class vice president shall become class president." In addition, the proposed amendment states that in the event of a vacancy in a class office position, the class president shall fill the vacant position(s), subject to the 
Oilll approval of a majority vote of  
~ In Session II couples will receive the results. ~ the Student Senate.  
'­ This program is facilitated by Mrs. Tracey Sandman, Director of  ~  
~ ~  Marriage Preparation &r Enrichment for Campus Ministry. Seosion I will be offered Wednesday. September 19, 7o.JQ-9,oo pm  ~I  The Observer  
~  and Sunday, September 23, 2:00-3:30 pm  Oilll  
~  (Childcare is available on Sunday afternoon; please request it when you register.)~  Subscribe now to The  
~ ~ ~~ ...: ~  tAMPUS\...!_ \NSTDVIM 1 IV  Pre-registration is necessary. There is a $10 processing fee per couple. (Fee does not apply to students.) Call Campus Ministry at 239-5242 to register by September 18. For further information, please call Tracey Sandman -239-5242.  ~ Oilll Oilll~...: ...: ~  Observer for only $25 a semester or $40 a year. What A deal!! Don't let this opportunity pass you by.  

L........................................................................................................................................................................................., ............l ._____________. 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 


Reforms 
continued from page 1 

omy and making a much slower transition to a market­based system. He recommended keeping price controls on most food and household products while raising the cost of some major items, such as televisions, ra­dios and refrigerators. 
He also said imports of con­sumer goods and medicines would have to be cut by one­third because of a shortage of hard currency, and he warned that the government budget would have to be cut to prevent the $96 billion deficit from ballooning. 
Ryzhkov's speech caused commotion in the hall as some delegates, led by Anatoly Sobchak, the reformist mayor of Leningrad, demanded copies of the Shatalin plan and the opportunity to adopt it. 
"If you ask me, I like the Shatalin plan better," Gor­bachev told the delegates in an animated, 15-minute speech about the need to stabilize the Soviet economy, which is plagued by shortages of bread, meat, paper, gasoline, tobacco and other ordinary goods. 
"If there is a real plan to stabilize finances, money circulation, the ruble and the market, then we should adopt the Shatalin idea," Gorbachev said. 
Pounding the back of his hand on the lectern, the 59­year-old Soviet leader defended the concept of a free market, which is little understood and much feared by ordinary Soviet citizens. 
When price controls are gradually lifted, he said, "we'll have real prices that will esti­mate who is worth what. Then powerful stimuli will be re­leased for structural changes. 
"Of course these will be painful changes. But so be it," he said. 

:f 
~ 
"' 
United Way 
It bri~ outthe. best 
in all of us. 
-· 

Military called to help in UF murder case 
marshy areas around 
Humphrey's apartment in 
southwest Gainesville. 
Alachua County Sheriff's Lt. 
Spencer Mann said the search 
could begin as early as Thurs­
day. 
Metal detectors, dog teams and deep-woods experts also will be used. 
Mann again emphasized that Humphrey is only one of eight suspects in the five gruesome slayings of the students. Four were enrolled at the University of Florida, the fifth victim was a student at Santa Fe Community College. 
"This search does not denote that Edward Humphrey is 'the' suspect, and the only suspect," he said. "A lot of resources have been poured into suspects just as important as him." 
Humphrey became a suspect in the slayings through a can­va.s of the off-campus student apartment areas where the victims Jived. 


GAINESVILLE, Fla.-(AP) In­
vestigators seeking the killer 
of five college students called 
for military help Tuesday to 
comb 10 square miles of 
woodland where a suspect 
reportedly went on nighttime 
"reconnaissance missions." 

Authorities would say only that they have a "good idea" of what they are looking for, and that the search could strengthen or weaken the case against 18-year-old University of Florida freshman Edward Humphrey. 
"This is based upon some information that he enjoyed being in the woods, that he may have camped out, and enjoyed being solitary in wooded areas," said police spokeswoman Lt. Sadie Darnell. "We don't want any information to go unchecked." 
Several hundred members of the Florida National Guard, along with reserve Army and Navy units, were being called up to assist in the search of several heavily wooded, 
HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEYAT UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF 
AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 
B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over 1,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'11 have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional growth through dividends. CREF's 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 
investment accounts, each managed 
with the long-term perspective essen­
tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account The CREF Money Market Account The CREF Bond Market Account* The CREF Social Choice Account* 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 1D FIND OUT MORE Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage 
some $85 billion in assets. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sm 
• The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans. 
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, calli 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
©1990 TIAA-CREF 
--------------~-------------~----------~---­
page 7 

Charity smorgasborg announced by HPC 

By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council announced at yesterday's meet­ing that it will be sponsoring a charity smorgasborg which will benefit a local charity as well as a tragedy-stricken graduate student and his family. 
The smorgasborg, to be held September 28 on Holy Cross Field, will be supplied by off­campus caterers. The price of food at the event will be a quar­ter. 
Half of the proceeds will be donated to the Women's Care Center in South Bend. The other half will be donated to the family of Zheng-de Wang, a Notre Dame graduate student who was injured in a hit and run accident last October and remains in a coma. 
The HPC also unanimously passed the Student Senate's amendement regarding re­placement of the Senate Presi-
CAREER FAIR  !1:00am ­ 4:00pm Fitzpatrick Hall  
BANQUET  Hors d'oeuvres 5:30pm South Bend Marriott Sponsored by General Electric (Aerospace Division)  
Dinner  6:30pm  South Bend Marriott  
Transportation provided  

Representatives from over 35 major companies. Opportunities for full..time employment and summer internships. 
Bring your resumes! 
REGISTER NOW for the BANQUET Extra forms available in Engineering Student Center -217 Cushing $5 deposit needed now, returned night of banquet REGISTRATION DEADLINE-FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14th 
Sponsored by Joint Engineering Council and Society of Women Engineers 
z 

! ~ : 
~ ENTER IN THE NVA OFFICE, JACC 
i . 
~ 1 1 ~ DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 13 
~ 
dent and Vice President in case of a vacancy in one or both of their offices. The amendment passed the Senate at their Monday meeting. 
Paul Radich, a representative from the World Hunger Coali­tion, announced that sign-ups for the Wednesday lunch fasts will be held from Wednesday to Friday of this week. Those who volunteer will donate their lunches every Wednesday for the semester. 
Radich said that the Univer­sity Food Services donate a percentage of the cost of the meals not eaten, approximately one dollar per meal. He said to remember that this amount "is worth a lot more" in the coun­tries targeted for donations. 
Bubba Cunningham, Ticket and Merchandising Manager for the JACC, asked the Council for feedback on ideas concern­ing revised seating accomada­tions at Men's Varsity Basket­ball games. An idea proposed was to have seating on the floor for 600 students to promote "a Duke-like atmosphere," but nothing definite was settled. 
Also announced was that the football pep rally will be this Friday at 7pm in the JACC. The four captains of the team will speak, and Coach Holtz will in­troduce the squad. 
Beer Drrnkers ot Amenca Educahon Pro1ec\ 

Know your limit and stay within it 

. 
! ~ •• 
i: ~ 
~ 

e On Campus Interviewing October 18 & 19 : 
~ • Invitational Sign-up Deadline September 17 _ 18 • ~ • Open Sign-up Deadline October 1 -2 
Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi • Wednesday, October 17, 7:00 -9:00 PM • 
unrve~~e~~~x;e~p~~~;ounge e 
~~-~ • 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.. ....................................... 
--~---~~----­
page 8
r 
Panel says no to anti­obscenity 

WASHINGTON (AP) -A bi­partisan study commission on Monday urged Congress not to impose new anti-o.bscenity re­strictions on the National En­dowment for the Arts, declar­ing that Americans must "put up with much we do not like" to preserve freedom of artistic expression. 
The 12-member panel also urged NEA chairman John Frohnmayer to scrap a controversial requirement that grant recipients sign a pledge that they will not use federal money to produce works that might be deemed 
obscene. 

Frohnmayer has repeatedly resisted demands that he eliminate the pledge, which has created a furor in the arts community, until federal courts rule on lawsuits challenging its con­stitutionality. He refused com­ment on the commission's re­port. 
At the same time, the com­mission proposed a major overhaul of the endowment's grant-making procedures to ensure that the NEA serves the interests of the American public and not a narrow constituency of artists. 
The panel concluded that "the endowment is not, in setting policy and making grants, adequately meeting its public responsibilities at the present time" as steward of taxpayer funds. 
It proposed that the NEA chairman be given sole, explicit authority to make final grant decisions and that the growing power of "peer review panels" that select grant applications for approval be diminished to an advisory role. 
The 94-page report of the commission, established by Congress last fall, drew mixed reviews from lawmakers trying to negotiate a compromise bill that would extend the endowment's life beyond Sept. 30, when its statutory authority expires. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
Troop ceilings may be omitted in treaty 
MOSCOW (AP) -The United States and the Soviet Union, eager to conclude a conven­tional forces treaty by year's end, may drop provisions limiting troops in Europe, a senior U.S. official said Tuesday. 
Such a move would leave only one stumbling block to finishing the accord -a prospective ban on non­nuclear aircraft. The official said that provision may be dropped as well. 
"We have the clock ticking," he said. "We're getting to the point where we are going to have to wrap this up." 
A 35-nation summit confer­ence to sign the treaty is being planned in Paris in mid­November. The pact is being negotiated in Vienna between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. 
The official spoke to re­porters, here with Secretary of State James Baker, one day before the victorious World War II allies take a historic step to reunite the Germany they defeated 45 years ago. 
A dispute over missile launchers in what is now East Germany -which threatened to delay eventual German sovereignty, was resolved on the eve of the ceremony, West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher said without providing details. 
The conventional forces treaty would set limits on tanks. artillery and other non­nuclear weapons -and on non-nuclear aircraft unless they are dropped from the treaty. 
"Aircraft and manpower have been very difficult," said the official, who requested anonymity. "So we are consid­ering removing limits on air­craft as well." 
The Soviets have argued that some of their planes the United States wants scrapped have defensive missions and should not be limited. 
GULF


(iHow did it start and where is it going?" 
Father Patrick Gaffney 
ednesday, September 12th 7:30 p.m. Knott Hall Lounge 
JJUJWII®~ ~ 
JJIPW JE~JECCWJIW1E CC®IDIDIIWJEJE 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE -3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
Available positions include: 
Exec. Coordinator Dinner Chairman Brunch Chairman Cocktail Chairman 
Help make 
Secretary Chairman Hotels: Hospitality Chairman Mass Chairman Hall parties Chairman Workshop Chairman Finance Chairman 
JPW 1991 one of the best weekends of your experience!! 
APPLICATIONS DUE SEPTEMBER 17 

~-------­
--------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 12, 1990 The Observer 

Saint Mary's Students 
Remember Student Government is for you! Let us know what is on your mind. 
Attend either a Board of Governance or a Board of Student Affairs meeting. Let your ideas be known! 
BOG meets every Wednesday at 6:00 in room 306 of Haggar. BOSA meets every Thursday at 5:30 in room 306 of Haggar. 
David Prentkokowski hired as new Director of Food Services 
By CARRIE DWYER News Writer 
David Prentkowfski has been hired as Food Service Director of the University, replacing Bill Hickey, who passed away last fall. 
Prentkowfski has been work­ing in the food service industry for several years, and brings with him to Notre Dame exten­sive experience within a univer­sity setting. 
In order to increase Food 
It bringsoutthe bestin all of us:· 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS 

JERUSALEM 
SPRING 1991 
PRESENTATION BY SR. MARY AQUIN O'NEILL DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1990 
6:30 P.M. ROOM 109 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Service's efficiency and produc­tion capabilities, Prentkowfski says he has a complete analysis scheduled to begin in early 1991. He said that a strategic, organized plan is needed to identify the most important is­sues facing Food Services. Among these issues, Pren­tkowfski sees the need to "balance customer satisfaction within a limited budget." 
In addition, he hopes to be able to "sustain production at its peak capacity while also im­nr.mnnfT the of meals. 

Born and raised in South Bend, Prentkowfski received both his bachelor's and mas­ter's degrees in food service from Purdue University. His previous work experience in­cludes three years as Food Ser­vice Director at the University of Utah, and two years with the Stoeffer Hotel chain in St. Louis. 
In addition, Prentkowfski, who was hired in July, served as a Food Service Director within a residence hall at the University of Michigan before coming to Notre Dame. 

DRIVE STRAIGHt 
INDIANA. ' 

Off to school AP Photo 
Eight-year-old Prince William, eldest son of the Prince and Princess of Wales arrives at the Ludgrove Preparatory School in Wokingham, England, Monday for his first term away from home. The Prince will spend the next five years at Ludgrove. 

SHORIN-RYU 
KARATE 
MEETS MONDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 4:45PM -6:15PM 
STARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 ROCKNE ROOM 301 
DEMONSTRATION 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
4:45 AT ROCKNE 301 

Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that dewlops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune 500 company, and has had record sales and earnings for 29 consecutive years. The company has a presence in more than 130 countries around the world Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana~ ' 
Lilly representatives from the Systems Division will be on campus on the following dates: 
Wednesday, September 12th Thursday, September 27 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 1-Jesburgh Memorial Library Lounge LaFortune Student Center 
Foster Room, Third Floor 
Lilly representatives will also be on campus for intl>rviews on Tuesday, November 7, 1990. 
We will be speaking with interested students on opportunities for Careers in Information Systems, and specifically about the Role of the Systems Analyst within the Pharmaceutical Industry. Students who are MIS, CAPP, Math/CC, or EE/Computer Sequence, or those who have had strong computer dasswork experience are invited to attend. 
Refreshments will be provided at both events. We look forward to discussing your opportunities in the systems field! 
Eli Lilly and Company an equal opportunity employer 

Wednesday, September 12, 1990

!?age 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1 990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 

News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 

Advertising Manager .•••.•••.Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Law school entertains students 
Mrs. Erma Veith was driving home one day after dropping her husband off at work. Suddenly, she saw a small, bright UFO land on the back of the car in front of her. She fol­lowed the UFO for three or four blocks. At this point she became aware that God was driving her car, so she let go of the steering wheel. Her car drifted left into the wrong lane. Mrs. Veith saw a large truck heading for her, and stomped on the accelerator. She did this in order to become airborne (she knew she could fly "because Batman does it"). Much to her surprise, Mrs. Veith did not become airborne until after hitting the truck head-on. 
Where would you expect to hear a story like Mrs. Veith's? The National Enquirer? Geraldo? Monty Python? The Notre Dame Law School? 
People often think of law schools as dull, dusty places. They think of ivy covered halls occupied by ivy covered profes­sors and greedy, humorless students. Not so. The study of law acquaints students with more weirdness and comedy than any other discipline. The strange case of Erma Veith, for instance, is read by first year law students across the country every year in Torts class. 
Mrs. Veith is not the only character to entertain law stu­dents. Mrs. Rush, a rather hefty lady, went out to use her land­lord's outhouse one day. Unfortunately, she fell through the floor of the outhouse and, in the words of the court 
R1ck Acker In My Opinion 

"descended about nine feet into the accumulation at the bottom, and had to be extricated by use of a ladder." The landlord argued that she shouldn't be allowed to sue because fat ladies assume the risk of falling through outhouse floors. 
Another entertaining legal theory was presented by Mr. Menlove's attorney in the fa­mous old case of Vaughan v. Menlove. Menlove had been piling dry hay on his property for several months. Vaughan, whose house was near the hay pile, repeatedly warned Menlove of the obvious fire hazard. Sure enough, the hay caught fire one day and burned down Vaughan's house. Vaughan sued Menlove for negligence. Menlove's attorney argued that Menlove couldn't have been negligent because he was too stupid to know better. No points for guessing that Menlove lost. 
Several members of Monty Python's Flying Circus went to law school before going into weird humor (two fields more closely related than one might think). When one reads some of the old English cases, one can see how inspiring they could be to a slightly twisted sense of humor. One "Pythonesque" gem is Blandford v. Andrews, de­cided in 1599. Blandford wanted to marry a girl named Bridget Palmer, and Andrews promised to convince Bridget to wed Blandford by a certain date. Before that date, Blandford went up to Bridget and, as the court put it, "called her whore; and told her, that if he married her, he would tie her to a post; and used other opprobrious words unto her." Not surprisingly, Andrews could not convince Bridget to marry Blandford. What is surprising is that Blandford sued Andrews for not arranging the wedding as promised. Even more surprisingly, Blandford won because the judge felt that Andrews hadn't tried hard enough. 
Sometimes old cases are worth reading not only for the stories they tell, but for the way they tell them. Dickes v. Fenne, decided in 1639 by England's highest court, provides a good example. Fenne stood outside Dickes' place of business and "having communication with some of the Customers of the Plaintiff. who was a Brewer, said, That he would give a peck of malt to his mare and she should pisse as good beare as Dickes doth Brew." 
Law students are taught what is called the "common law," but some of it is definitely uncom­mon. Many of the people who show up in court are walking violations of the laws of nature, but as one judge put it, "this court does not enforce those laws." 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Have you cleaned up your act? Now that Notre Dame has been without maid service for a few weeks, how do you feel about the new cleaning procedures? Did the administration handle the change well? Write Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and let us know what you think. Deadline for submissions is Monday, Sept. 17. 
LETTERS 
Notre Dame community assists prevention of needless deaths 
Dear Editor: 

As you walk past a pond, you see a child drowning. No one else is around. If you wade in, you can save her, but if you don't, no one will know you were there. Is it your responsi­bility to save the child? If you feel that it isn't, you need not read any further. 
You see your responsibility is to save the child, because the child's death is needless and it is within your power to prevent it. However, we have all been ignoring preventable deaths by not combatting famine. 
The Notre Dame community is now, in its own small way, making an effort to help defeat hunger. If you are willing to skip your Wednesday lunch, the dining halls will donate the cost of your food to small, grass­roots development projects overseas. Posters in the dorms and the dining halls display let­ters sent from the project sites in Bangladesh, the Philippines, Argentina, and other countries, thanking the past participants here on campus. Over the past two years, we have raised over $9,000 to send to these pro­jects. 
Friday is the final day to sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast. Please consider skipping a meal, so that others may eat and build for a better future. 
[Introductory analogy by Dr. Peter Singer.] 
Paul Radich World Hunger Coalition Sept. 11, 1990 

"Open Forum" allows personal participation on gamut of issues 
Dear Editor: 

Beginning this Thursday, September 13, 1990, the Ideas and Issues committee of the Student Union Board (SUB) will be sponsoring an "Open Forum" to all members of the Notre Dame community. 
The "Open Forum" is, more .or less, an opportunity for stu­dents to voice their opinions on any issue they feel strongly about. A microphone and stand will be set up at the Fieldhouse Mall outside LaFortune be­tween 4:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. for six consecutive Thursdays starting September 13, 1990 and running through October 18, 1990. 
What is our opinion on 
University regulations regard­ing parietals? Perhaps you think Notre Dame should have co-ed housing available to stu­dents. What are your feelings about Apartheid in South Africa, the war in the Middle East, or your personal beliefs on abortion or the death penalty? 
The "Open Forum" will give you the chance to express your concerns and voice your opin­ion. The Student Union Board invites you to be a part of this effort. 
Bill Keen Ideas and Issues Student Union Board Sept. 10, 1990 
H{;Rff ATAN UN[)f5a051:3D 
1.1XATION1 AN UNIDeNTIFieD 
TRANSFOI<T Pt/W& {)f5(I}R6t{) A aA551FI/3D OFaJM­
......,........,..... 84TANT5! 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'M '3PI3AKING WITH ONe OF THe NWA/?RIVALS1 WHOSe NAM/:3 AND RANJ< AND NA­7/0NAL-11?£3NTI7Ytf/1:3 CANNOT Rf:3V£;AL-AT THIS TlMe ... 
'One change always leaves the way prepared for the introduction of another.' 
Nicolo Machiavelli 

Accent 
Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
• page 11 

Chuck: Stating the freshman caSe 
Sights, sounds and experiences of rookie Domer 
I am a freshman. 
I know what you're thinking: "Nice opening. Concise. Good active voice. But wait, there's a problem here. Freshmen do not write columns in the Observer. There's a very simple reason for this: they're freshmen." 
If you can't accept the fact that Notre Dame tradition has changed without a lot of evi­dence, read on. (If there's any­one out there who can, read on anyway.) 
found myself standing in be­tween the College Democrats' 
Chuck Young 

and the College Republicans' Fresh Perspective booths. I must look rather 
moderate, because members of This is my story. both groups started shouting at Like most freshmen, I at­me to join. Fearing a rumble, I 
tended activities night at the quickly moved towards the JACC where over 100 campus nearest display. It happened to 
organizations (read: resume be the Observer's. 
builders and reasons not to do 
homework) were "hawking While waiting in line at the 
their wares." After wandering booth, I began to think about 
aimlessly for a few minutes, I being a freshman (in case you don't remember, most freshmen do this a lot.) Admittedly, they were typical freshman thoughts: "Why do they call us the Fighting Irish? As far as I know, Father Sorin came over from France. It must have something to do with football (everything else does). What if my roommate locks the door and goes to class while I'm in the shower? Should I take my keys with me?" I have trouble imagining a senior wondering those things, anyway. 

Some things are simply unique to the freshman view­point: an amazement at the rigidness of the alcohol policy; an amazement at the amount of beer certain underclassmen can drink without staggering much; an amazement at the amount of beer certain upperclassmen can drink without requiring major rehabilitative therapy; the feel­ing that orientation weekend is just like camp. It's a kind of virgin outlook on life that even faculty and older students can find interesting, or at least amusing. But, I thought, you can't read about it in the Observer. 
And think about the possibili­ties for new articles! For in­stance, freshmen are still inter­ested in each other's S.A.T. scores. We wonder what exactly chicken-fried steak is, how it could possibly ever snow in South Bend if it's this hot in the summer, and whether we'll be hazed if we join the Glee Club. Subjects worry us that, because of experience and a hardened stomach, no longer bother most upperclassmen. Having read about the DeBartolo quad three times in one week, I knew the Observer could use some uncovered material. 
I came to the conclusion that more reporting on the fresh­man perspective would interest students and faculty alike. So, in the end, I decided to do the noble thing and offer up my services as a columnist. 
They were skeptical, but I wrote a sample column and gave it to an editor. In a vision­ary attack in the ongoing battle for market share with the South Bend Tribune, she agreed to publish it. She didn't even edit it much. 
So never fear, class of '94, a new source of investigative re­porting exists to look into your most pressing concerns. 
As an exercise, I and a crack team of Senior engineering ma­jors have already begun work to determine whether leaving the fridge open will really cool off your dorm room. While I can't guarantee that all of the material in this column will lend itself so well to practical application, I'll do my best. 
Anyway, here I am. 
If you like this column, please send appreciative letters and wads of money to my editors. 
If you don't ... well, after all, I'm only a freshman. 
Letters to Chuck can be sent care of Accent at The Observer. third floor ofLaFortune. 
Gross pet tricks --One student's summer job 
MICHAEL SNYDER 
accent writer 

How did you spend your summer? Working at a pool? Typing as a clerk? Doing hard physical labor? You thought you had a rough job. 
Well meet Jane Smiley. Maggots, diarrhea, tumors, and vomit were all an everyday part of her summer job. Jane is a sophomore biology major who worked at Montgomery Animal Hospital in Cincinnati hoping to gain experience in the veterinary field. She was hired as "Hospital Staff' but the job title didn't warn her for what was in store. 
When she was hired she ex­pected to do some cleaning but she also anticipated a lot of animal care. However, the ac­tual work she did was far dif­ferent. Every day she had a new grotesque tale. Her job in­cluded cleaning the animal cages covered with urine, stool, and vomit from the animals. She had to carry newly-de­ceased animals to a freezer to place in a pile of other dead animals. She also had to clean the animals of maggots, ear mites, and ticks. 
However, her job was not all bad. She learned various skills about the veterinary field that she couldn't have received any­place else. She was taught how to take blood samples, how to administer medicine to animals, and how to take x-rays of the animals. She also assisted in critical situations like surgery and emergencies. 
Another aspect of her intern­ship was the emotional attach­ment to the animals. She watched some of her favorite animals be put to sleep. Helping old and crippled ani­mals on the brink of death was also a painful part of the job. However, the worst part was saying goodbye after spending an entire summer caring for and nurturing them. 
Her job included cleaning the animal cages covered with urine, stool and vomit from the animals. 
Her opinion of her first expe­rience in the veterinary field was one of mixed emotions. While she met wonderful doc­tors who cared very deeply for the health of the animals, there were also doctors who were cruel and harsh in their treat­ment. 
Another realization was that the majority of veterinary work is routine, like toe nail clippings or neutering. She doubts she will enter private practice but would like to work in a veteri­nary field in Africa. Jane rec­ommends that anyone inter­ested in becoming a veterinar­ian should get some experience and a summer internship is the best way. 
So when you're complaining about your job next summer, and you will complain, remem­ber Jane and her work in a vet­erinary clinic. Then thank your lucky stars you don't have to deal with maggots, diarrhea, tumors, and vomit. 


Feeling humorous? The Accent Department is looking for a few good columnists. Drop off a sample column in the Accent mailbox at the Observe~r, third floor LaFortune. 
--~-~---------­
~-----------------------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p..m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mruy's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces . 
Classifieds
• 

NOTICES 
MICHIGAN TICKETSIII!III! PENTAX MX 35mm CAMERA WANTED: I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE, NEED 2 MICHIGAN TIX Perfect for beginning PURDUE, AND PENN STATE STUDORGA 2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket photography students. 1 AIR FORCE G.A. GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID CALL LYNN X1277 TYPING AVAILABLE needed. INCLUDES: 50mm LENSE, AT 284-5239 287-4082 PENTAX FOCUSING SCREENS, 2 MIAMI G.A.'S NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET. CALL PLEASE call Amy ?72-8954 CAMERA CASE AND STRAP. I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE, TARA X1267. 30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Call TIM @ 273-9287 CALL MIKE x1581 PURDUE, AND PENN STATE Balloon for rent. Custom WANTED: GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID HELP I NEED MICHIGAN TIX FOR messages. Signs & Banners for HOUSESITTER/COMPANION I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE AT 284-5239 MY ROOMMATE WHO IS GOING your organization. 272-7770! FOR 15-YR-OLD MALE OCT. 11-FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM TO ROME $$$$$$$ 
14. KNOLLWOODAf~'. CALL NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-513-677-8106. DESPERATELY SEEKING COLLEENX4508 277-8654 AFTER 6 PM. ASK FOR 1364 STANFORD GAME TIX 
JOHN OR ROSEMARY. for use by my nubile young sister NEEDED: MICH. TIX You can save a marriage, sell me who's coming to town. Recent Domer Grads who don't 
ST. EDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 

Want to hire art student COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. Call Alison at 4011 know what else to do with their to paint leprechaun on rec CALL 273-1364 money are looking for tickets. Help
Dr. Patricia O'Hara 
room wall273-9158 I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) HAVE 2 MICH. GA'S. them find a way to squander their WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S money-SELL YOUR MICH.
•professor of Law 

EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE IBM compatible 286 portable CALL MATT X 2984 OR WILL SELL. TICKET. CALL SUE x2497
•Former member of the 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 3-computer, 1.2 floppy, 40 meg HD, CALL MARK 212-595-0275. 
MONTHOLD. 1 meg RAM. Lotus 2.1 & Q & A I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ !!!!HELP!!!! TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5. included. 287-0534. I need 2 GA's for EVERY home WILL TRADE TWO MIAMI GA'S I need football tickets PLEASE!! 
NCAA Infraction 
Committee 

OUR HOME gameII WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! FOR TWO MICHIGAN GA'S OR Anyone with 2 GAs together (BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER USED FURNITURE +OTHER PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ STUDENTS. CALL (708) 530-tor MICHIGAN
·vice President for 

MONTH. CALL 259-6006. MISC. 272-7081 AFTER 6PM 2153 TODAY BEFORE 4:30. or anyone with 2 student or 
GAs together for AIR FORCE NEED MONEY ?? 13" DIGITAL MITSUBISHI CLR TV NEED 1 MICH. Tix PSU TICK (STU) NEEDED-CALL and STANFORD 
Student Affairs 
will speak on 

Downtown Book Co. Needs $125.00 SHARP RECPTN. AARON x2384 x23,52 X3635 FOR DETAILS. I will pay for them!! Please Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. X1970 call Colleen at x4055. Thanx!
"Violations in College 

Many Opportunities. Call Mr. NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. WANTED
Athletics" 

Turner 5-7 pm M-F 288-1002 CALL X4045 Need MICH. Student TIX. Will pay
PURDUE/STANFORD TIX 
TICKETS top$$. Call Woody at 4653. If no
277-7684 Students, need extra spending Need five GA's for Michigan game. answer, leave message.
VVednesday,Sept. 12 

I need a pair of Air Force
7p.m. 

money???? MACRI'S DELl IS Will pay top dollar. Call Mark Miami Ticket NOW HIRING FULL AND PART GAs for my grandparents. x1576. Available I'll do anything for 2 Michigan GA'sST. EDWARD'S TIME COOKS AND EVENING If you've got them, call Mark i<1412 or Mich. Air For Miami student tix. at 2506.
BUSSERS. Good employee Need five GA's tor Michigan game. Brian x-1306
HALL FORUM 

benefits, flexible schedules, and a Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. Please! Please! Please!
HELP!!!!

great place to work. Apply within: I need one Mich. ticket of NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS!! 
Parents' first and last chance 
Located in University Center on Need five GA's & STUD. for any sort! Lisa x3212 CALL KARIN x1992Need infant daycare by licensed to see an ND football game.
Grape Road. Michigan game. Call Paul x1755.
facility? Call Renee Graf at 256­

Desperately need 2 GA's and one NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S
-------------------------------------need 2 Ml GA's Rick C. x 1750
7311. 

student ticket tor MICHIGAN. 
NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD CALL KARIN x1992 
please call AMY (A.) 
TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!$ I've got 1 00 reasons why
FAST 

272-8954 NEED ONE MICHIGAN x3843CALL BARB X4419 you should sell me 2 MICH.
GRAD STUDENTS!! 
FUNDRAISING 

TIX. Call Kevin x3347
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX MICHIGAN studs and GAsGRAD CLUB 
PROGRAM 

needed. Will pay $$. Please call BETH NEEDS TICKETS IIIII CALL MIKE AT X4022 Need 2 tickets (any kind) for Darrell at 283-3302.
Michigan gameFRI. SEPT. 14 NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & call Ry X1048Student tickets needed for 

MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO NEED STUDENT TICKET FOR
·tooo~~:
4:30 -7:00PM 
WIIK. 

Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and 
MICHIGAN Air Force. 
TRADE. LUKE X1213 Need 2 tix tor AIR FORCE BILL 3540 Annemarie x2773WILSON-COMMONS 
Earn up to $1000 in one week 

I NEED TICKETS 
Call Beth at 288-0597 NEED MICH STUD TIX
for your campus organization. 

I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER FOR SALE
GRAD STUDENTS!! 
ANY#CALLMIKE1625WATCH THE GAMES ON TV 1 Mich Stud Tix

Plus a chance at 

Need two MIAMI tickets for WILL BUY WHOLE SETS Best Offer by Wed Midnight 
I ~ 
long lost WEALTHY uncle 
CALL X 1167 Alicia #4114 
$5000 more! 

287-3472 Scotty HELP!! '90 ND GRAD NEEDS Used Textbooks! 
MICHIGAN STUD TIX! PLEASE
This program works! 

Needed desparately, 4 Stanford Need Miami GA's 25% OFF LIST PRICE 
TICKETS NEEDED!III CALLSANDY X4121!
No investment needed.

I 
GA's and 3 Stud tix. Also need $$$$$$$ no objectPandora's Books 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN Miami Tix. Big Bucks!ll Call Jon
I 
corner of ND ave. and Howard 
call f-80MJZ.OSZ8 

2 G.A.'s + 1 Studentticket Need Michigan Student Tickets. 
Paul at x4115. Call Mark 232-4589 
I 233-2342 
for Air Force Call Nader at 273-1849
Ext. 50

I 
273-9469 Diane Need Miami GA's 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS$$$ $$$$$$$ no object

I I LOST/FOUND )
I r Wanted-
Need $$$?Sell 
CALL 284-4350$$$ "Go lrish""Go lrish..Go Irish"

I your ga's to all Call Mark 232-4589 LOST: 
lloln Damt-Milmi footbaltkklt!
home games. 
I Fraternities, sororities, campus
3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC Call tom x1597.

I organizations, highly motivated 
W plY topS
ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR 
I need:
individuals-Travel free plus earn

I TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 3 Air Force Tickets!!
Calll-IOD-?~-OS18
up to $3000+ selling SPRING 

I YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S
I 
Need Miami GA'sANYTHING!!!!!!! NAME YOUR PRICEIII '--.J $$$$$$$ no object Call Tim at x3332BREAK trips to:Cancun-South 
Padre Island-Orlando/Daytona

X4090 OR X4049 #3501 H E L P!!lf!lll!lfllfllfllf My cuz from
Beach: 1-800-258-9191. 

Arizona is coming to the
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Call Mark 232-4589 
LOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for "Go lrish""Go lrish""Go Irish" SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 any ticket. Call Mary
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Need Miami GA's
I t FOR RENT
CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY at x1292.
GAMES.272-6306 
$$$$$$$ no object

~ TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. 
FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS,

I PLEASE CALL 234-9648. Need 1 student Penn State ticket 
PLEASE HELP ME 1!111 WANTED: 2 GA TIX TO
Call Mark 232-4589 PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN,
I Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s for a future Domer. Please call Pat MICHIGAN. WILL PAY. CALL
MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 

at 273-9367. Found: A set of keys, containing 
I TRADETRADETRADE COLLECT MORNINGS AND ASK
272-0615.

I Please sell me your tickets !I!! I have two 50 yard line tickets to FOR CATHY. (508) 687-1050. 
GM and room keys, behind Need 1 Michigan GA the Michigan game. I would like toBED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY
Flanner Hall9/5. Call1749 to call Pat 289-5542 WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN TIX
Call Cathy at 273-9624. trade them for two Miami GAs. Call
t 219-291-7153.
claim. 

FOR 2 MIAMI. CALL (312) 975­I Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD 2299 AFTER 6:00 P.M.
Kelley at 283-4854. 
I FOUND: BRACELET IN THE AN ATTRACTIVE STUDIO IN GA'S! CALL DAN @ X1179
Penn State or Air Force. Also URGENT! I need 1 Michigan, 1 
! 
MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS DEPOSIT 2888595 
SOUTH END OF NORTH DINING 

will to pay big $. Call Jim at Miami, and 5 Stanford Tix. STUDHALL. IF IT IS YOURS, CALL 
x1723 $$ I NEED TICKETS $$
or GA. David at x4115.
X1553. I desperately need a Michigan Up to 4 Airforce G.A.s ticket. My roommate is going to and 2 Stanford Studs. 
I need a MIAMI stud tix. Will
NOTRE DAMe PHD STUDENT AT 

I 
Lost-Detex somewhere on Mod MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDEDII!I!I Rome and this will be her last Call Christine @ 2682
pay $$$. BILLx1583
TURTLE CREEK E. LOOKS FOR A ROOMATE TO SHARE A 2­

Quad (pos. by Grace). If found, football game for a whole year. 
please call X4905. $$$$$ Call Lisa or Kara at X2761
Mom, Dad, and bro. have never I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force BEDR. APT. CALL JAMES 273­HELP ME PLEASE!!
been to an NO game. tix. Call Pat x 233-7328. 
1627. 

I 
I LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GA I desperatly need 2 GA's for the I FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG 2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET I NEED 2 PURDUE GA Michigan game. Will pay just about AT MISHIANA REGIONAL 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED 

will help keep them from BRIAN X2153 NEED anything!!
FOR TURTLE CREEK APTSAIRPORT--CONTAINED 

watching it on t.v. Miami Tix PLEASE call soon! Ask for NancyNON-SMOKER• CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY, at #284-5038Phone: x1755273-9406 OR 283-2805
I AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. 272-8954 Amy Razz BIG DOLLARS! PLEASE CALL TONY AT NEED STUDENT TIX 
~ 
PLEASE. I really, really need X1970. FOR SALE Help! II Looking tor Michigan ALL HOME GAMES PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of II ! FOR SALE !I ! 
3 SR. MICH STUD. TIXI tickets (GAs and Student) CALL 1597 MONEY TALKSII BEST OFFER MONEY. Call Sean x1723 I Please call John or Regina
FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIX! 

COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: BY THUR. MIDNITE X 3541
PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE 258-0809 $$$ NEED 2 MICH TIXI!I 277-9452 WANTED: 2 tix for Michigan 
I 19" COLOR TV, TWO
DELfiN LAFORTUNE TO 

······---------------~---------------Game. Call X4084
I SEMESTERS $110, ONE Need 2 Air Force GA's call IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET. 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STUDS ORSEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 
$$$$$$$:$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Brian C. at x3546 or x3540
I 
GAS. CALL DAVE X1045. WANTEDLost: brown, plastic glasses. SEMESTERS $110, ONE 
"''"''ed

I 
I MAM TICKE'fS

Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 SEMESTER $80. 
Help me out. I need Michigan
ROYAL ORDER: $100+COSTCOLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­
Students or Gen"ral 
tix: 2 GAs and 5 St. tix. CallHear ye! Hear ye!
Adnisslon In any ~ion
I 
Lost: One yellow Ryder hand­5959. 
Faris @ x3082.

The Queen o' the Irish 1 SET OF STUD TIX
Call Chuck collecl

I truck borrowed from N.J. club Requires 4 Miami Tickets 
(716) 265-0490 8 am -~:30 pm
I truck. If you know where it is, call PLANE TIX CHI to LAX And Tp NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MICHIGANI!!
For Her Royal Court JON 237-9533
•nd anytime Sat & Sun.
I Lee at 277-9365 Lv Oct20 Ret0ct28 ONLY $200 CALL CHRIS X1067All Willing to Answer
I obo Call Nicole x2853 Her Highness' Plea
LOST: One nifty dog, TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's HELPIIII DESPERATELY NEED 2
I Please Contact Treven X4503 FOR SALE: 2 MICHIGAN
Husky/German Shepherd mix, SOLD COTTAGE\MUST SELL Call Beth at 288-0597 or MIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$
I ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs Senior stud. tixs. Will
Answers to Raft; gives paw FAST! PICNIC TABLE $35, 8' Art at 277-9203 CALL NICOLE 234-8882 
I accept best offer.$$$ 
If you see my doggy, call Jeff PICNIC TABLE $40, GREAT 7' 
$$$$$$$$

I Dave x1219
x3244 POOL TABLE with ACCESSORIES WANT 2 PURDUE GA'SI $500, WHITE SCULPTURED RUG DON'T BE A·· CALL MIKEI $50, PORTABLE DISHWASHER I NEED MICH STUDENT TIX AT2344
I 
WANTED 
THIS IS A CATHOLIC 

I $150, BIG MICROWAVE $150, MICH TICKETS NEEDED WILL PAY BIG BUCKS UNIVERSITY ­
CALL CATHY 233-6586. CALL DAN 234-8608 NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 2STUD, 1 GA HAVE MERCY!!! 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975 WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL NEED 2 miami GAs! 284-4386 
BED: QUEEN/LIKE NEW 2870929 FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 

NEED MICH GA'S SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS WILL PAY TOP $ 1 MICH STUD FOR SALE
WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: BEST OFFER BY 12 PM WED
2 MICH GA'S TO TRADE FOR CALL PAT 234-8608 STUD. & $ : 2870929 Mike, 273-9468 CALL ALLEN #3401
CALL 800-323-7687 see CLASS/ page 13 
page 13

Wednesday, September 12, 1990 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Martin's pal denies charges 

HELPII NEED TWO TIX FOR DEATH will come my way if I don't NEED SEVERAL MICH. TIX AND TRADE 2 MICHIGAN OR PENN dave glenn does dishes MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR MANY STANFORD TIX. CALL
get 2 PURDUE GA's! Help me. Call STATE TIX FOR TWO Steve X2478 STANFORD OR MIAMI. 259-7229. He gave us hope
THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ STACY 271-1893.
Class 
when hope was gone:
CALL GUY AT X1750continued from page 12 WANTED DESPARATELY: NEED: 2 STANGA's HAVE 5 MICHIGAN STUD. TIX He gave us strength to carry on.
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME 4 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICS HAVE: 2 AIR FORCE GA's (40yd) CALL 234-2728 
NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR!! Who is he?
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S LET'S TRADE I! call joe x2681 
HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE CALL JIM AT 277-9358 I HAVE TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'SIII He's Big John Plaine!Ill
CALL 273-1364
CALL BETH 233-9226 We love you,
I NEED 1 MICH. STUD AND TWO Amy&Colleen
HELP 

NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS IIIII! NEED MICHIGAN TIX PURDUE G.A.'S. CALL OR LEAVE
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need 1 Stanford G.A or Student MESSAGE FOR CHRISTINA AT TICKETS NEEDED for any home
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STUD. OR G.A. II 
ticket! CALL Mike-273-9471NEED 2 MICH. TIX! football game. Will pay big $$
PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT HAVE $$$$$$$ 273-943811 
284-4350

G.A'S OR STUD. Call Tom at x3280.
My little bro is coming and I *o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*0k*o/o*o/o*o/o
PLEASE CALL x2012CALL x3771 or x3791 
I am looking to trade need a Stanford ticket for CALL ME BEFORE YOU SELL SINGER AND KEYBOARDIST
him. Call Bill @ 1584. YOUR MIAMI GA'S
4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. If I NEED MilCH GA'S PLEASE$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SOUGHT FOR EST. CAMPUS BAND. CALL Rich x3342 or 
interested, call CALLPATAT#1010 THANKS I WILL BEAT ANY PRICE!! 
I need MICH tix

Hugh at 233-6740. BILL X1562H E L P!!! 
Scott 234-3356. 
Jeff x3320 *o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*%*0k*0k*o/o*o/o*%
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI OR 2 DESPERATE!!!!! II GA'S FOFI AIRFORCE-X2152: ML
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY Jrs.-I need a cruise tix! JoniWE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OFI MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!!
WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS 1839
STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3 WE NEED 4 TICKETS FOR OCT 6PAYING TOP$$$$$ 
USC TIX! Call ALYSSA or NANCY STANFORD GAME.
I need 10, that's right 1 0 $ $ $ $ $ $ $CALL JEFF@277-3998 MOM IS GONNA KILL MElli
Miami tix (student or GA's) x3822 Family coming from NY CALL 708-882-3215 COLLECT 
Unless I get two Michigan tickets. 
Every ticket helps. Family coming NEED: PSU TIX --STUDS, I'll take your GA's or StudTix. BIG­WANTED:
to see game. GA'SI need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
TIME CASHII!]
ANY GAMES TIX GA'S 4 MIAMI GA's are what I need.
Call Bryan at 2266 BRIANx1603Parents will take back tuition 
CALL TOM AT 1779 if I don't come through!!!!!!!! 
OR STUDS. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ So give them to me, please. Pete 
CALL AARON #1581
Wealthy Alumni need Michigan x1745Call Mike X3506 TO THE GUY WHO RODE THE
G.A.s. NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT 8:30 SHUTTLE FROM THE
I luv my girl...and She'd luv to I HAVE 2 GREAT MICH GA's
Call Matt x2045 TIX JOE#1352WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
GROTTO TO HOLY CROSS ONsee STANFORD! PleeeasePat (405)332-3411]WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL MON. NITE. I LIKE YOUR REDsell me your Stan STUD!!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I WANT 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR
COLL:1-312-745-7210. 
BANDANA. WHO ARE YOU? 284
Call1603. I HAVE STUD TIX FOR HOME BROTHER WHO IS AN '83 GRAD 4374AMY
I need one student Michigan GAMES. GALL 288-9406.
NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX I need your MICH tix
ticket. Willing to pay big GIVE TIM A CALL EXT. 3558
$$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &
puh-LEEZE! x4272 STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
money. Call Tim: #2281 NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL 
X4285.

WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT 
2 miami ga's-make offer 237-HELPI I DESPERATELY NEED Need GA's and stud tix for NO
ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN
MICH. TIX I Stu or GA. -Tom vrs Stanford PLEASE call Lisa0788 GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­
#3502. NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, at 5012
DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO 4005
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? PURDUE, STANFORD, MIAMI,Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIGI 
AND PENN STATE. CALL JULIA NEED: TWO MICH. TIXPlease call Kathy 277-9406 or DESPERATEIll
NEED 4 MICH. GA'S, 4 STUD. GA'S OR STUD'S. PLEASE
ME TOO X3505Mike 273-9471. 
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR THE MICH. GAME. 
BILLX4274 CALL ZAC #3797 ANY TIME. 
4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami NEED ALL TIX!II #1588 Kevin fans that need humbling. CALL HEATHER 271-9260GREAT DEAL I 
I can afford to pay $80 for a pair of NEED MIAMI TIX? We have 2
THE DEAL OF THE CENTURY6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­
272-8954 Amy GA's to the ND-Mich. game. 272-WILL TR..11DE 2 GA TICKETS TO Call x4112 TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETS!
other offers welcome 9602 after 7:00 SEE UNDEFEATED MICHIGANx2630 
FOR 2 GA'S TO SEE THE NEED MICHIGAN STDS OR I have 2 stud tix for all NO home HELPLESS HURRICANES. IF TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR GA'S. KELLY 234-8744NEED STUD/GA TIX 
I can afford $50 for a pair of 2 PRDU GA'S "TIM"1407 
games 271-0999 Best Offer INTERESTED PLEASE CALLfor any/all games 
student tickets to the THE BULL AT 287-9670 NO get ready for a wild wkend!
Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 
HELP!!I! NEED 3 MIAMI and ND-Mich game. 272-9602 after 2 more days til Molly's 211111evenings 
1 PSU tix for the family. Will 7:00 NEED GA'S-3 MICH, 1 AF, 3 pay top $ for the tix! HELP!!II DESPERATE STUDENT MIAMI"DAVE@ 1407 TO THE "LITTLE MERMAID" IN BP call4867 and ask for Amy NEEDS 1 MICH. STUD. & 2 GA'S 149: HOPE YOUR SPIRITS ARE
MICHIGAN TIX; need GA's or NEEDED 2 GAs FOR MICHIGAN FOR ANY HOME GAME This is an easy one. I need UPI YOU'RE TOO BEAUTIFUL TOstudent; call Brian x3300 call Erin x4492 CALL SHAUN 273-9241 PURDUE TICKETS! Call Carrie at BE UNHAPPY. REMEMBER, YOU Will Pay X4049. CAN ACCOMPLISH ALL OFMich. StudTix needed. You need 
BIG $$ OR ROUND TRIP Have 4 MICH TIX and Need MIAMI YOUR GOALS. THE SKY IS THEbig cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. 
AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR TIX-Wanna trade? FOR SALE: LIMIT. KEEP THOSEUrgent! 
SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE I NEED PURDUE TICKETS. Call Greg Bohdan (714)727-Student tickets for Stanford, GORGEOUS EYES AND PLEASE CALL ROGER AT Purdue and Air Force. AWSOME SMILE GLOWING.
1911

I NEED TIX!II 2 GA'S FOR 
FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1-#3074 AFTER 7PM. Call Amy at x4624 to make an YOU'RE WONDERFUL! FROM:PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. 
800-875-4525. If you don't sell me your MICH. offer. STANFORD STUDS.
TONY X1590 I have ONE MIAMI TICKET! 
stud. tickElt, I hope you drink so NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA Need it? Call4624. much on Saturday that you vomit No good at woodshop?
MICHIGAN TIX; need 4 GA's; 
I PERSONALS

CALL COLLECT and pass out before game time!ll Need help with that laundry call MaryAnn 284-5313 
313-663-4830 Need MICH Ga's or Stud tic's rack?
Pete x1745 M-TH AFTER 8:15PM Call Susan at 258-0635 hiag Call 'Naugh carpenters at X1529$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
F-SUN ANY TIME NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, Ask for Dave or SteveYOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! 
WANTED WANTED STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752-BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 22-(but not Kirk) Ask about ourI NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 
NEED ALL THE STANDFORD TIX Michigan and Miami 5314. MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR shelving units! 
MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 
I CAN GET. GA's & stud. CALL student tickets. MON.WED.FRI. OR M-F. 8-12:30. 
273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DENNIS X2384 Call Greg at x1517 234-8743. Two short females desperately 
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. 
seeking two men with carpentry
WANTED WANTED TOP DOLLAR. 404-923-4707. Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket · CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN experienceWANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX 
Call Chris X2274 2 MICHIGAN STU'S FOR SALE ESCORT ON CAMPUS... (but not Kirk) Must be able to
ME TOOl NEED MICH TIX! STUD CALL ANDY AT 232-2586 & GA --TIM 271-8795 EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM provide own hammer1 MIAMI STUD TIC 
Stephanie @ 4322 
CALL 283-BLUE for all home games, esp. for I would like student tickets Same two short females 
NEED MIAMI TIX. Penn St.!!!l Call Jeff x1747 !NEED PURDUE TIX!! SEPT 29. WILLING TO PAY A LOT
MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS BRUNETTE: I'M NOT SURE WE desperately seeking Italian WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL 233-SHOULD GET IN THE MIDDLE OF speaking man (this means you
CALL SHERI AT X2773 Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm 7328. ASK FOR MARK BISCH
NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. 
THIS MARK AND ANGIE THING. Kirk!)
WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT EVERYTHING WAS GOING OKlittle, so DON'T HURT MElli And 
NEEDTIX give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS
(303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. 
UNTIL SHE MADE THAT FREE BEER!!! FREE BEER!!!
MICH, MIAMI & ALL others Stanford and Purdue. x2632 CALL KEVIN NIGHTS ONLY 
COMMENT ABOUT HIS WET I desperately need AIR FORCE
Chris 4013 WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, 271-9312 
BURRITO. -SID GA'S. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS$$$ STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR HELP!! II No, I don't need Miami 4 Michigan Tix Needed. Contact CALL DAVE AT 2201 
LE CERCLE FRANQAIS

PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 tickets.....! really, really need WANTED: Pat x1787 or Hugh 233-6740. 
Interested in French language and ATTENTION BEER POUNDERS!!!
MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239-Air Force tickets and I'm dead culture? The first meeting of the 
Thursdi!Y is KEVIN CANNON'S ND/SMC French club is Wed 9/12
3982. if I don't get 'em! Please call 2 AIR FORCE STUDS OR GA'S 2 Mich studs or GA's needed 20TH BIRTHDAY!!! STOP BY 911Lynne@ X2687. 
call Jim 277-6405 
at 7:30pm in 155 O'Shag. 
FLANNER TO POUND A FEWRYAN@2478 Refreshments will be served. WITH HIM OR CALL AND POUND

NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS A CORPORATE PROBLEM­WANTED: 2 tickets to the Notre Done, venez nombreux! 
OVER THE PHONE.

GA's or STUDS NEED 8 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. Dame-Miami game. Call Mark at 1­HAPPY POUNDING KEV!I!
CALL DAN@ X1795 WILL PAY$. 1-262-4990. 800-325-5275 or leave message.
WANTED: The Rat and Cloutier PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE IIIII
NEED TWO TICKETS!!I WILL PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! I 
I NEED MICHIGAN GAs FOR MY Amy, um, I remembered, um, 4
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE PAY$$$!!!-NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS 2 PURDUE GA'S NEED 1 MICH. TICKET, ANY PARENTS CALL ANN 283-4872 years in a row.
GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES. FOR AIR FORCE OR PENN KIND. DESPERATE! HELP! 
Uh, happy birthday.

STEPH@4322
CALL KEVIN X1589 STATE. CALL SHANA 27351!1 #4032 
sdgf Luv, Guy 
PORT CRANE, N.Y. (AP) -A Detroit bar owner charged with drunken driving in the wreck that killed Billy Martin was be­hind the wheel when the former New York manager's pickup truck crashed, witnesses said Tuesday. 
However, William Reedy's de­fense lawyer said he would prove that his client only told investigators he was the driver to cover for Martin. 
Reedy, 53, owner of Reedy's Bar near Tigers Stadium, is charged with driving while in­toxicated in the accident that took Martin's life on Christmas Day last year. 
Reedy and Martin had a long­time friendship and "as a result of that friendship, there was nothing he wouldn't do for Billy Martin," defense lawyer Jon Blechman told a six-member 
ot under 

way in the Town of Fenton Court. 
"When the accident, hap­pened Bill Reedy thought, 'Billy's got himself in trouble again. I've got to help my friend,"' said Blechman, who added that Reedy didn't learn until several hours later that Martin had been killed when the pickup truck slammed into a concrete culvert at the entrance to Martin's driveway. 
Martin had a long history of alcohol-related problems, in­cluding public fights with his ballplayers. 
Among the first witnesses called Tuesday by Broome County Assistant District At­torney Kevin Among Guyette were members of the family that found Martin's pickup truck on its side in the ditch in front of his farm and the first sheriff's de ut on the scene. 
Brent Piech, 14, told jurors he and his family were returning from-doing chores at a nearby farm when they saw the pickup truck lying driver's si de up in the ditch. 
While his mother rushed back to a nearby house to summon an ambulance, Piech and his father tried to aid the accident victims, he testified. 
He said Martin was pinned up against the passenger side door with Reedy on top of him. 
"You only thought Mr. Reedy was there. We didn't think any­one else was there until my dad picked up Mr. Reedy," the youth testified. 
Blechman focused his ques­tions to Glanville on authori­ties' determination that Reedy was in xicated. 
The Notre Dame Cheerleading Team, along with the Notre Dame Pom Pon Squad, will give a performance in front of the bookstore on Saturday at 3 p.m. in preparation for the NO­Michigan game. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 p.m., Room 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. All are welcome. 

United Way It brin~ out the best in all of 1.&· 
Scoreboard 
Wednesday, September 12, 1990page 14 

BASEBALL STANDINGS  NFL STATS  
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division  AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks -·  NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Att  Com  Yds  TO  lnt  All  Com  Yds  TO  lnt  
Boston  79  63  .556  z-4-6  Lost2  Grogan, N.E.  28  17  217  2  0  Testaverde, T.B.  21  16  237  3  1  
Toronto  76  66  .535  3  z-8-2  Won6  Kelly, Buff.  37  28  283  1  0  Dilweg, G.B.  32  20  248  3  0  
Detroit  69  74  .483  101/2  5-5  Won3  DeBerg, K.C.  28  16  196  2  0  Rypien, Wash.  31  17  240  3  0  
Milwaukee  68  74  .479  11  5-5  Won2  Moon, Hou.  52  31  397  4  2  Wilson, Minn.  36  18  248  3  1  
Baltimore  63  77  .450  15  3-7  Lost2  George, Ind.  24  13  160  1  0  Everett, Rams  40  24  340  2  2  
Cleveland  64  79  .448  151/2  5-5  Won 1  O'Brien, Jets  49  27  300  2  1  Miller, All.  30  19  225  1  1  
New York  58  83  .411  201/2  2-8  Won 1  Esiason, Cin.  30  17  202  2  2  Simms, Giants  27  15  149  2  1  
West Division  Marino, Mia.  34  22  255  2  3  Harbaugh, Chi.  29  21  203  0  1  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Vlasic, S.D.  31  17  137  1  1  Montana, S.F.  43  26  210  1  1  
Oakland  89  51  .636  z-8-2  Lost I  Kosar, Clev.  30  13  120  0  0  Peete, Del.  21  10  143  1  1  
Chicago  80  61  .567  91/2  4-6  Lost!  
Texas  74  68  .521  16  7-3  Lost!  Rushers  Rushers  
California  70  71  .496  191/2  4-6  Wont  Att  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  Att  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  
Seattle  70  71  .496  191/2  z-7-3  Won2  Smilh, Mia.  23  159  6.9  27  1  Anderson, Chi.  20  101  5.1  17  2  
Kansas City  66  76  .465  24  z-1-9  Lost9  Okoye, K.C.  28  92  3.3  11  1  B.Sanders, Del.  14  79  5.6  24  1  
Minnesota  65  77  .458  25  6-4  Lost2  Thomas, Buff.  20  84  4.2  29  1  G.Anderson, T.B.  21  74  3.5  13  0  
Stephens, N.E.  18  70  3.9  22  1  Walker, Minn.  14  68  4.9  19  0  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  Brooks, Cin.  15  67  4.5  18  0  Byner, Wash.  17  63  3.7  11  0  
East Division  Butts, S.D.  16  61  3.8  18  1  Agee, Dall.  13  59  4.5  16  0  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Bentley, Ind.  15  50  3.3  14  0  Hilliard, N.O.  15  59  3.9  16  0  
Pittsburgh  84  58  .592  z-8-2  Won2  Smith, Raiders  11  48  4.4  7  0  Broussard, All.  17  54  3.2  10  1  
New York  80  61  .567  31/2  z-4-6  Won2  Allen, Raiders  8  47  5.9  28  0  Johnson, Phoe.  14  54  3.9  21  0  
Montreal  74  67  .525  91/2  5-5  Lost!  Mack, Clev.  6  45  7.5  16  0  Riggs, Wash.  13  51  3.9  6  0  
Chicago  66  75  .468  171/2  4-6  Won 1  
Philadelphia  65  76  .461  181/2  3-7  Lost2  Receivers  Receivers  
St. Louis  64  78  .451  20  4-6  Lost2  NO  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  NO  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  
West Division  Thomas, Buff.  9  61  6.8  12  0  Rathman, S.F.  9  43  4.8  8  0  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Toon, Jets  8  118  14.8  46  2  Byars, Phil.  7  60  8.6  11  0  
Cincinnati  80  60  .571  z-5-5  Won 1  Jackson, Den .  7  121  17.3  41  0  Clark, Del.  6  117  19.5  26  2  
Los Angeles San Francisco  74 73  67 68  . 525 .518  61/2 71/2  4-6 6-4  Lost! Won3  Jeffires, Hou. McKeller, Buff.  7 7  80 78  11.4 11.1  35 19  0 0  Ellard, Rams Johnson, Phoe.  6 6  106 99  17.7 16.5  30 25  0 0  
San Diego  65  75  .464  15  5-5  Won2  McGee, Cin .  6  84  14.0  22  0  E.Martin, N.O.  6  91  15.2  18  0  
Houston  63  78  . 447  171/2  z-4-6  Lost3  McNair, K.C.  6  57  9.5  22  1  Sanders, Wash.  6  90  15.0  37  1  
Atlanta  58  83  .411  221/2  z-7-3  Lost2  Banks, Mia.  6  53  8.8  15  0  G.Anderson, T.B.  6  79  13.2  23  1  
z-denotes first game was a win  Reed, Buff.  5  62  12.4  25  0  Monk, Wash.  6  60  10.0  16  0  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  Paige, Mia.  5  56  11.2  15  1  Kemp, G.B.  6  48  8.0  17  0  
Monday's Games  Langhorne, Clev.  5  55  11.0  20  0  Holohan, Rams  6  44  7.3  21  1  
Boston 5, Milwaukee 4, 1st game  Duncan, Hou.  5  53  10.6  26  0  
Milwaukee 6, Boston 1 , 2nd game  Hill, Hou.  5  53  10.6  15  0  Punters  
Cleveland 3, Chicago 2, 1st game Chicago 6, Cleveland 2, 2nd game  Mularkey, Pitt. Bentley, Ind.  5 5  50 31  10.0 62  13 11  0 0  Camarillo, Phoe.  NO 4  Yds 196  LG 53  Avg 49.0  
Texas 1, New York 0, 11 innings  Williams, Sea.  5  28  5.6  9  0  English, Rams  5  239  54  47.8  
Detroit 8, Baltimore 0  Feagles, Phil.  6  280  56  46.7  
Toronto 6, Kansas City 1  Punters  Landeta, Giants  7  314  52  44.9  
Seattle 5, Oakland 2  NO  Yds  LG  Avg  Saxon, Dall.  7  314  58  44.9  
California 3, Minnesota 1  Gr.Montgomery, Hou.  3  151  60  50.3  Royals, T.B.  3  133  50  44.3  
Tuesday's Games  Wagner, Clev.  8  357  58  44.6  Fulhage, All.  4  173  51  43.3  
Late Games Not Included  Prokop, Jets  4  171  58  42.8  Mojsiejenko, Wash.  5  213  53  42.6  
New York 5, Texas 4  Roby, Mia.  3  127  49  42.3  Arnold, Del.  4  170  46  42.5  
Detroit 2, Baltimore 1  Donnelly, Sea.  9  377  48  41.9  Barnhardt, N.O.  6  251  49  41.8  
Milwaukee 4, Boston 2  Gossett, Raiders  7  285  54  40.7  
Cleveland 4, Chicago 3 Toronto 8, Kansas City 4 Oakland at Seattle, (n) Minnesota at California, (n) Wednesday's Games Oakland (Sanderson 15-9) at Seattle (Gardiner 0-0), 3:35p.m. Milwaukee (Higuera 10-6) at Boston (Boddicker 14-8), 6:05p.m. Texas (Hough 11-10) at New York (Adkins 0-0), 7:30p.m. Detroit (Morris 11-17) at Baltimore (McDonald 6-4), 7:35 p.m. Chicago (M.Perez 12-13) at Cleveland (Black 10-1 0), 7:35p.m. Toronto (T.Stottlemyre 13-14) at Kansas City (Gordon 10-10), 8:35p.m. Minnesota (Casian 0-0) at California (Grahe 1-3), 10:35 p.m. Thursday's Games  Hansen, N.E. Johnson, Cin. Stryzinski, Pitt. Horan, Den. Punt Returners Woodson, Pitt. McNeil, Hou. Warren, Sea. Worthen, K.C. Townsell, Jets Martin, Mia.  6 4 8 4 NO 5 2 2 2 3 4  241 160 316 156 Yds 52 19 19 17 24 31  48 52 48 55 Avg 10.4 9.5 9.5 8.5 8.0 7.8  40.2 40.0 39.5 39.0 LG 22 10 13 10 16 10  TO 0 0 0 0 0 0  Punt Returners Meggett, Giants Query, G.B. Gray, Del. Morse, N.O. Taylor, S.F. Bellamy, Phil. Sanders, All. Bailey, Chi. Sikahema, Phoe. Stanley, Wash.  NO 4 5 2 4 3 2 3 4 3 3  Yds 90 73 24 46 34 22 31 37 27 25  Avg 22.5 14.6 12.0 11.5 11.3 11.0 10.3 9.3 9.0 8.3  LG 68 25 14 18 16 22 14 14 12 12  TO 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
New York at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Baltimore at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:05p.m. Seattle at California, 10:35 p.m. Minnesota at Oakland, 10:35 p.m. Only games scheduled NATIONAL LEAGUE Monday's Games New York 10, St. Louis 1 Pittsburgh 3, Philadelphia 2 Montreal 7, Chicago 4 San DieQo 5. Los Anaeles 2 San Francisco 7, Atlanta 6, 10 innings Only games scheduled Tuesday's Games Late Games Not Included Chicago 11, Montreal 6 Cincinnati 5, Houston 3 New York 10, St. Louis 8 Pittsburgh 5, Philadelphia 1 Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) Atlanta at San Francisco, (n) Wednesday's Games Philadelphia (DeJesus 5-6) at Chicago (Maddux 12-13), 2:20p.m. Atlanta (Leibrandt 8-8) at San Francisco (Burkett11-7), 3:35 p.m. Houston (Darwin 11-2) at Cincinnati (Rijo 11-7), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (Tewksbury 10-5) at Montreal (Boyd 9-5), 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh (Smiley 8-8) at New York (Cone 11-8), 7:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Neidlinger 4-1) at San Diego (Whitson 12-8), 10:05 p.m. Thursday's Games Philadelphia at Chicago, 2:20p.m. Houston at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. St. Louis at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at New York, 7:35 p.m. Only games scheduled  Mays, S.D. 4 Johnson, Den. 4 Lewis, Clev. 2 T.Brown, Raiders 2 Kickoff Returners NO Lewis, S.D. 3 Metcalf, Clev. 2 Martin, N.E. 4 D.Smith, Buff. 2 Laville, Sea. 2 Grant, Ind. 5 Holland, Raiders 4 Woodson, Pitt. 4 Ford, Hou. 3 Collins, Mia. 2 Scoring Touchdowns TO Givins, Hou. 2 Toon, Jets 2 Kicking PAT Norwood, Buff. 2-2 Breech, Cin. 2-2 Stoyanovich, Mia. 3-3 Treadwell, Den. 0-0 Leahy, Jets 2-2 Kauric, Clev. 1-1 Lowery, K.C. 3-3 Staurovsky, N.E. 3-3 Biasucci, Ind. 1-1 Anderson, Pitt. 0-0  30 27 13 9 Yds 70 46 87 42 41 101 79 66 49 30 Rush 0 0 FG 4-6 3-4 2-2 3-3 2-2 2-3 1-1 1-2 1-2 1-2  7.5 6.8 6.5 4.5 Avg 23.3 23.0 21.8 21.0 20.5 20.2 19.8 16.5 16.3 15.0 Rec 2 2 LG 47 44 37 44 33 47 43 42 24 19  17 11 8 9 LG 26 27 28 22 22 29 25 27 22 30 Ret 0 0 Pts 14 11 9 9 8 7 6 6 4 3  0 0 0 0 TO 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pts 12 12  Kickoff Returners Gray, Del. Cobb, T.B. Walker, Minn. Berry, Rams Sikahema, Phoe. Wilson, G.B. Fenerty, N.O. Meggett, Giants Dixon, Dall. Barnett, Phil. Scoring Touchdowns Anderson, Chi. Clark, Del. Walker, Minn. West, G.B. Kicking Davis, All. Andersen, N.O. Jacke,G.B. Allegre, Giants Christie, T.B. Ruzek, Phil. Cofer, S.F. Lohmiller, Wash. Lansford, Rams Butler, Chi. Willis,Dall.  NO 2 2 3 2 3 4 3 4 3 4 TO 2 2 2 2 PAT 5-5 0-0 3-4 3-3 5-5 2-2 1-1 4-4 3-3 2-2 2-2  Yds 110 48 62 40 60 79 57 68 50 65 Rush 2 0 0 0 FG 4-4 4-4 3-3 2-2 1-1 2-2 2-5 1-1 1-2 1-2 1-1  Avg 55.0 24.0 20.7 20.0 20.0 19.8 19.0 17.0 16.7 16.3 Rec 0 2 2 2 LG 51 41 53 46 22 37 52 29 41 47 31  LG TO 65 0 25 0 27 0 21 0 22 0 29 0 22 0 28 0 20 0 22 0 Ret Pts 0 12 0 12 0 12 0 12 Pts 17 12 12 9 8 8 7 7 6 5 5  
TRANSACTIONS  SPORTS CALENDAR  

BASEBALL HOUSTON OILER&--Signed John Guerard, defenseman, to a three-year Wednesday, Sept.12 American League Grimsley, linebacker. Agreed to terms with contract. NEW YORK YANKEEs-Activated Don Leonard Harris, wide receiver. Released SOCCER No sports scheduled FOOTBALL 
Mattingly, first baseman, from the 21-day Quentin Jones, defensive back, and Pat American Indoor Soccer Association disabled list. Purchased the contract of Rich Coleman, wide receiver. DETROIT ROCKER&--Signed Dan Thursday, Sept. 13 Monteleone, pitcher, from Columbus of the KANSAS CITY CHIEF&--Announced that O'Keefe, forward. 
International League. Albert Lewis, cornerback, has reported to COLLEGE No sports scheduled 
Super Bowl 

National League the team. FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON-Announced 
NEW YORK MET&--Acquired Kevin MIAMI DOLPHIN&--Signed Jim Jensen, that Turi Carter, men's basketball forward, Friday, Sept. 14 Carmody, pitcher, from the Milwaukee wide receiver, to a two-year contract. has transferred from Southern Cal. Brewers to complete the Charlie O'Brien NEW YORK JET&--Piaced A.B Brown, FDU-MADISON-Named Stan Parker Men's soccer vs. ST. LOUIS, 7:30p.m. trade. running back, on injured reserve. Signed and Mike Cieri assistant football coaches. Women's soccer vs. VALPARAISO, 5 p.m. 
BASKETBALL GEORGIA SOUTHERN-Named Michael Volleyball at Big Four Tournament 
Don Odegard, cornerback. National Basketball Association PHILADELPHIA EAGLE&--Signed Ben Stokes men's assistant basketball coach. MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVE&--Signed Brown, quarterback, and Marvin Hargrove, HIRAM-Named Jimmy Gooden men's 
Saturday, Sept. 15 Brian Rowsom, forward. wide receiver. Released Daryle Smith, assistant basketball coach. Continental Basketball Association guard. Placed Mike Bellamy, wide receiver, IONA-Named Steve Post men's part-time Football vs. MICHIGAN, 8 p.m. 
ALBANY PATROONs-Named Don on injured reserve. assistant basketball coach. Volleyball at Big Four Tournament Bassett and Terry Stotts assistant coaches PHOENIX CARDINAL&--Piaced Bob LA SALLE-Named Joe Simon women's Women's cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, and Doc Nunnally trainer. Clasby, defensive tackle, on injured reserve. tennis coach and George Mecherly men's 
10a.m. OMAHA RACERs-Named Randy Eccker Signed Dick Chapura, defensive tackle. tennis coach. 
Men's cross country vs. GEORGETOWN, assistant general manager. PITTSBURGH STEELER&--Piaced Delton 
I 0:30a.m. 

FOOTBALL Hall, cornerback, on injured reserve. Re­NEW JERSEY TECH-Named Dave National Football League signed Richard Shelton, cornerback. DeNure assistant athletic director and 
Sunday, Sept. 16 ATLANTA FALCONs-Re-signed Gilbert HOCKEY Brenda Zabriskie women's senior 
Renfroe, quarterback. Waived Hugh Millen, National Hockey League administrator and women's basketball No sports scheduled 
quarterback. BUFFALO SABRE&--Signed Pierre coach. DALLAS COWBOYs-Released Timmy · Turgeon, center, to a multiyear contract. TENNESSEE TEMPLE-Named Allen Smith, running back. QUEBEC NORDIQUE&--Signed Stephana Reynolds assistant basketball coach . 
.. .. . . .. .. ... .. .-.....
~
•_._----c -• • • 


Wednesday, September 12, 1990 The Observer page 15 

!Chris x16~49 Jim x1091 Julie X 1341 Amy X 2Ei53 
A substantial reward is being offered for the return 
of this item. If you can help us, please call x1 091. All information will be kept strictly confidential. 
.. 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
Coach pans Miami talk 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­The Miami Hurricanes need to learn to keep their mouths shut because they're not good enough to back up brash talk, Coach Dennis Erickson said Tuesday. 
Miami fell from No. 1 to No. 10 by losing its opener Saturday at Brigham Young, 28-21. Erickson said com­ments last week by the Hur­ricanes helped inspire BYU. 
"I think we fueled the fire, no question about it," Miami's second-year coach said at his weekly news conference. 
One Miami player last week said BYU quarterback Ty Detmer was good but not great. Another said the Hurricanes would try to rough up Detmer with blind-side hits. A third player, discussing past accusations that the Cougars play dirty football, described the game as "Nasty East meets Nasty West." 
The Hurricanes' comments were the talk of Provo, Utah when they arrived. 
"I don't like that. I never have liked it," Erickson said. 
"What we've got to do is worry about ourselves and learn to keep our mouths shut and just play football, and when we do that, good things 
continued from page 20 

"I'm concerned about our ability to play pass defense. I 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
will happen to us." 

The Hurricanes' comments certainly didn't bother Det­mer. He passed for 406 yards and three touchdowns. 
Erickson said the Hurri­canes, who play at California on Saturday, have learned a lesson. 
"They'll watch what they say and say things in the way they want to express them­selves," he said. "But I don't know that you're going to see a lot of things you can put in the (opposing) locker room, because obviously we're not good enough to do that and win." 
Linebacker Maurice Crum, however, later said the Hur­ricanes had no plans to tem­per their tongues. 
"Definitely not," he said. "It never hurt us before. That's the way we've always been. ... Miami talks, and we have to back it up. We're not looking at that as a problem." 
Quarterback Craig Erickson said he tries to watch what he says. But he said some of his teammates talk tough because it motivates them. 
ope we can rna e a JUstments during the course of the game." 
Considering the adjustments Notre Dame has already made in coping with its off-field problems, one would suspect so. 
NVA offers activities for students 
Special to the Observer 
From the serious competitor to the person who just wants to get out and exercise regularly, Notre Dame Non-Varsity Ath­letics is offering something for everyone this fall. Activities ranging from camping expedi­tions to team tournaments have been planned for the upcoming weeks. 
Walkaway, a noontime walk­ing program starts Sept. 18th from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. The two-mile route begins daily in front of Washington Hall. There is no charge. 
For those who enjoy a little quicker pace, the annual Domer Runs will be held Sat­urday, Sept. 22nd. The three and six mile races start at 10 
a.m. at Stepan Fields. This event, the oldest all-campus run at Notre Dame, costs $6 in advance or $7 the day of the races. A pancake breakfast, t­shirts and trophies are in­cluded. 
Farther distances will be cov­ered by the interhall men's and women's cross country teams. Those interested can enter as individuals or in seven-person teams by Sept 13th. All team members must be from the same hall. Dates for the races, held on the Notre Dame Golf Course, will be announced later. 
An entire night devoted to athletics will occur at the Run and Fun meet held in Krause Stadium. Races, games and contests are just a few of the events. Individuals should sign up by Sept. 13th. 
For those who would prefer hitting the fairways, NVA is sponsoring a 2 Person Scram­ble golf tournament on Sunday, Oct. 7th. The event is open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff, with both men's and women's divisions. Interested golfers can sign-up as individuals or in pairs at the golf shop (Rockne) by Sept. 13th. Fees of $4.50 for stu­dents and $7 for faculty and staff are due with entry. 
For people who prefer putt­putt golf, a tournament will be held Sunday, September 23rd at 
6:30 p.m. Register by Sept. 19th at NVA. The cost of this two person best ball competi­tion is $5 per team. 
Teams are currently forming for soccer enthusiasts of all ages. Students can join men's interhall soccer. Teams must form by hall only, have at least 18 players and submit their roster and entry fee of $25 by Sept. 13th. For graduate stu­dents, faculty and staff, a sepa­rate soccer tournament will be held. Again, the deadline for entry is Sept. 13th and all teams need 18 members and must pay $25. 
A campus outdoor volleyball tournament will be held for 
BILL MORDAN IS 21! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
Notre Dame students, faculty 
and staff. Volleyball teams 
are ineligible. The deadline for en­try is Sept 13th. All teams have nine players. The entry deadline for th Freshman Swim Meet has extended to Sept. Individuals can enter at NVA anyone of 10 races. 
Karate classes begin 1Vtcmaay1• Sept 17th in Rockne room Classes stress discipline, se defense, self-confidence fitness. The classes meet Monday and Wednesday 
4:45 to 6:15 p.m. thr the semester and cost $15. 271-8405 to sign-up. For camping buffs, NVA hold an Outdoor Advent this fall. A planning sessi will be held Sept 19th from 6: to 9 p.m. in Rolfs Classro An overnight campout by group will be held from morning of Saturday, S 22nd to the afternoon of day the 23rd. Costs is $10. 
For more information, NVA at 239-5100. 
FROMYOUR 
SISTERS, LYNN&JODI 



Wednesday, September 12, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Strawberry lifts Mets over Ca1rdinals; Pirates win 
NEW YORK (AP) -Darryl Pirates 5, Phillies 1 Deshaies' wildness with a two­Strawberry's two-run homer PHILADELPHIA -Bobby run single, carrying Cincinnati with one out in the ninth inning Bonilla drove in the go-ahead over punchless Houston. off Lee Smith lifted the New run for the second straight Charlton (12-7) gave up five York to a 10-8 victory over the game to back rookie pitcher hits over seven innings to the St. Louis Cardinals on Tuesday Randy Tomlin, who had a key slumping Astros, who have night as the Mets kept pace double as surging Pittsburgh scored a total of nine runs in with Pittsburgh in the National beat Philadelphia. their last six games, losing five League East. Tomlin (3-2) worked six in­of them: Randy Myers pitched 
The Mets start a two-game nings, allowing five hits and the final 1 2-3 innings for his series with the first-place Pi­one earned run in pitching the 29th save. rates on Wednesday night at Pirates to their ninth victory in Eric Davis had a solo homer, Shea Stadium, trailing Pitts­11 games. Mariano Duncan a sacrifiee fly burgh by 3 1/2 games. New Trailing 1-0, the Pirates and Sabo a two-run single off York is 48-22 at home, includ­scored twice in the third Deshaies (6-12). The left-ban­ing nine wins in a row. against rookie Jason Grimsley. der walked six in the first four 
Tom Herr led off the ninth Tomlin, with his first hit in 19 innings, helping the Reds seore with a walk off Smith (3-4), but major league at-bats, doubled three times on just one hit in Dave Magadan popped out try­with one out and scored the ty­the fourth to snap a 1-1 tie. ing to sacrifice. Strawberry ing run on a triple by Wally Cubs 11, Expos 6 then hit Smith's first pitch for Backman. Andy Van Slyke CHICAGO-A 10-run second his 33rd home run and the walked with two out before inning, its best in 17 years, en­Mets' 18th victory in their final Bonilla singled to score abled Chicago to overcome a 5­at-bat this season. Backman and chase Grimsley 0 deficit against Montreal. 
The Cardinals tied the score (1-2). Damon Berryhill, Andre 8-8 with two runs in the ninth Reds 5, Astros 3 Dawson and rookie Derrick off reliever John Franco (5-1). CINCINNATI Norm May hit two-run doubles in the who blew only his fourth save Charlton pitched well and Chris inning for the Cubs, who had opportunity in 35 chances Sabo took advantage of Jim seven hits and sent 13 batters to the plate. Luis Salazar sin­gled twice in the inning for Chicago, which scored all its
AMY'S 21 
runs with no outs. It was the biggest output for the Cubs since a 10-run first
WISH HERA 

against Houston on May 31, 1973, and it was the most
HAPPY 

scored in one inning in the 
National League this year. It also was the most runs ever in an inning against Montreal. 
BIRTHDAY 

Indians 4, White Sox 3 
CLEVELAND The Cleveland Indians dealt 
LOVE, 

Chicago's slim pennant hopes MOM, DAD, BRIAN, 
another blow Tuesday night, defeating the White Sox 4-3
DAN 

when pinch-hitter Brook Jacoby drove in the winning run with a fluke double to short center-field with two out iin the ninth inning. 
After a long day of classes and endless homework, one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwiches. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice cream. 
And, remember, Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 
1 0% discount on food to all ND/SMC students. faculty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID required). So why put up with stale pizza and sandwiches... 
whenyoucancomehomero~H~a~ci~e~nd~a~?~------::~~~;:---L--~'--~ 
Hours: 

uot1'e to Hacie 
e ,, 1Jqil
Fri.& Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
<.;0~ 


::::::: :L.-.-.-A~~-:_;re_;,_;"~c~;;~~~~~,~~·~p~~~~dA~.:~:::::~:~~G0.w.~llr~'~.~~~.:ifl~·:~:;ll:~=·:ii:::it:~:~;.ll;:·i:~~~:~:~~~:illi:w.jCI~'m"~:0..0:0.::~: 
: : : :Grape Road at Indian Ridge Plaza, M.ishawal<a _(N~arPhar-_Morand T.J._Maxx). 277~13_1!3: : : 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · © Hacit!rlda ME!Xican Restallrants c 1 
................................................................. 

AP Photo 

St. Louis outfielders Rex Hudler, left, and Ray Lankford collide while chasing a fly ball in Wrigley Field last week. The Cards lost to the Mets on Tuesday, 10-8. 
It was the fifth loss in six blooper that landed between games for the White Sox, who shortstop Ozzie Guillen and began the evening nine games center fielder Lance Johnson. behind first-place Oakland in Guillen kicked the ball past the American League West. Johnson, then picked it up and 
Reliever Barry Jones (11-3) relayed it to first baseman lost for the second time in two Steve Lyons, who paused before nights after yielding a two-out throwing home. Catcher Ron single to pinch-hitter Carlos Karkovice. Karkovice dropped R:~P.r~ra . .Jaeobv then hit a the ball as Baerga slid in. 
,..,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,~.._,.., 
i 1st Floor, LaFortune 
~  .  ~<0!  ~  
~ ~  .~ (1  ~111m ilU~~  :illli  
~  ~  
~  lil:n:lifciDI1'11IDlSl11:1krDlDl  ~  
~  ~00~  ~  
~ ~  ND  SMC  ~ ~  
~  Tuesday, Sept. 11  Wednesday, Sept. 12  ~  
~  7:00 p.m.  7:00 p.m.  ~  
~  Montgomery Theatre  304 Haggar CC  ~  

~ 

! EVERYONE WELCOME _! 
~
..................................-................................... 
Notre Dame Communication and Tht•atre presents Catholic University's National Players J>erforming THE TAMING OF THE SHRE\\T 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
JWashington Hall 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit.-Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 

.. 


page 18 

Belles defeat Goshen as Mayer sisters shine 
Special to the Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team didn't lose a set in its 9-0 destruction of Goshen College yesterday at Saint Mary's Sarah Mayer led the way for the Belles with a 6-0, 6-2 vic­tory over Goshen's Sue Conrad at number-one singles. At number two, Ellen Mayer defeated Jody Crite 6-2, 6-0. 
The Mayer sisters (Sarah and Ellen) combined to de­feated Conrad and Crite 6-4, 6-3 at first doubles. At second doubles, the Belles' Marie Koscielski and Phayma Darby defeated Goshen's Rose Everest and Kris Miller, 6-2, 6-2. 
TV executive becomes first black at Augusta 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP) -The president of Gannett Television is the first black member of Augusta National Golf Oub. 
Ron Townsend, 48, who is in charge of six of the company's television stations, has ac­cepted membership in the club, site of the annual Masters tournament, Augusta National said Tuesday. 
The action by the club came in the aftermath of the contro­versy that centered on the ra­cial policies of Shoal Creek Country Club near Birmingham, Ala., site of last month's PGA Championship. 
The events at Shoal Creek prompted the PGA Tour, the PGA of America and the U.S. Golf Association to adopt new guidelines -effective next year -requiring private clubs that want to host tournaments to demonstrate that their mem­bership policies are not dis­criminatory. 
Townsend was in Boston and was not immediately reachable by telephone. 
He has served as director of field services for the Children's Television Workshop and was involved in the children's pro­grams "Sesame Street" and "Electric Company." He became station manager of WTOP-TV in Washington in 1978 and served in that position until being named to his present post in May 1989. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
Cragin looks to start for Irish 
: By DAVE MCMAHON Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame volleyball 
coach Art Lambert, sophomore Marilyn Cragin is a spark of electricity. 
"I see a light turning on and its starting to get brighter," said Lambert, describing the play of late by sophomore Marilyn Cragin, whose 18 kills led the Irish to a win over Western Michigan in the final round of the Notre Dame Invitational this past weekend. 
Although Cragin played "barely at all" last season, spring practice enabled her to become familiar with more than one position. After starting out in the middle, the California native began playing on the right side before moving to the left at the end of spring practice. Shear talent has made the transition to the various positions easy for her. 
!HJ~fPJfPJ1 :2:2ffilrdl !&arttftilrd/~1 SU!RJFE!RJ C!RJ~UGJ 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Dawn, Cindy, Nana, and Baron 

Marilyn Cragin 
"Physically she's a marvelous athlete and she has the ability to come in and break up the game at any time," said Lam­bert. 
But the key words in that compliment are "come in". Cra­gin, although only in her second collegiate season, would like to nail down a starting role for the Irish. 
"I've always been able to come in and sub, but I would really like to play my own posi­tion," said Cragin. 
The urge to contribute is only natural, and Coach Lambert is impressed with what he sees in Cragin. 
"She came in during her freshman year and had little or no confidence,"said Lambert. "Now she's progressing to where she should be as a sophomore." 
Cragin, who admits that con­fidence has not been one of her assets, plans to begin playing with a new outlook. 
"In the past tournament, I thought that I did a good job," said Cragin. "I was never really sure of myself before this weekend, but now I'm confident and ready to contribute in any way I can." 
The Irish, 3-3 on the young season, hope to improve to 5-3 with matches this weekend at Kentucky and Louisville. 

~***************************-******** 
:CELELBRATE THE BIG ONE ! 
: HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY : : AMY URSANO : :LOVE, MOM, DAD, ANNA : 
•

•************************************• 
IPut in your window. lhere i§ one for every room or §U ite. 
,(;et them up by the /'~\ Ill(IH 111(;A\ ~ I(;A\~\ If!! 
ADWORD 

Wednesday, September 12, 1990 The Observer page 19 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 36 Roughage for a 63 Margarine 
CAMPUS 

4:30 pm Reading, Morris Renek, author of Bread and dieter 
64D.M.D.'s
1 Pacific salmon 
Circus, Las Vegas Strip, Heck, Siam Miami and the Big 37 Enclosure concern
5 Penurious 
Hello. Room 214 Computer-Math Building. 
38 More of the quip 65 Out of the wind 9 Leading 42 Samovar 66 Extremely
7 pm Finance, Management, Marketing Placement 14 Rib donor 
43 Frequent 67 Ancient
Night. Employer representatives from Morgan Stanley, 15 Poet Lazarus 
source of Nile-delta city 
Leo Burnett and Continental Bank will be in attendance. 
16 Fla. key Washington 68 Decays
Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Career and news
17 Bare 69 Icelandic epic

Placement Services. 44 Martini munch
18 Tie a boatto a 
45 "L' --, c'est

dock
7 pm Cinema at the Snite, "Public Enemy," Annenberg 
moi" DOWN19 Thirstier
Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by 
47 Snack for Sea 

1 Tent 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre. 20 Start of a quip 
Biscuit 

2 Concert halls 23 Three, in Torino 
48 Like fuzz on

9 pm Cinema at the Snite, "The Last Supper," 3 Red deer 
24 Compass pt. worn sweaters
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. 
4 Hebrew dry
25 --Forge, Pa. 49 In the past 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication & Theatre. measure 29 Ditty syllable 51 Fixation 
5 Flashback 31 Neck part 
52 End of the quip 

6 Ham it up 
61 Own up 

35 "Abdul·the Bulbul-" 62 Justice's seat 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 7 Mine, to Mimi 
8 Fed. flic 7 pm Panel Discussion, "Recent Political Developments 9 Robert and Alan in Southern Africa." Engineering Auditorium, Cushing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of films 
Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame African Student 
10 L1sten to Association. 
11 Tribe whose name means 29 Trick's 46 One of the 55 Ski lift 
7:30 pm Knott Hall Middle East Seminar, "Crisis in the 
"long tail" alternative Society Islands 56 Holy circle 
Gulf." Father Patrick Gaffney. Knott Hall Lounge. 
SMALLWORLD INCH 
12 Ripener 48 Parts
30 Hat holder 57 Where vessels 13 Fishing boat 50 Barbarians nestle
SAC.RU 
32 "The cruellest 

COG.SHE REMISS 
21 Anatomical 51 Belief 
58"--Three
month," to Eliot 

H~rt't'fi'SHIRT AROLL 
passages 52 Bulb-brightness Lives" 
33 Annoy

INLAWW'E DANIA 
22 Bingo's brother measure
MENUS 
59 Simp of a sort 

S I E N A rc 71'ij' G E R g G 25 Imprecise 340ver 53 Fresh thought 60 "The Naked 
SORDID EDO.~CG 
26 Lifeless, old 54 Gov. agents Maja" painter 
36 Calif. city 

SNAP.ILL 
style
Notre Dame 
39 Remote

FLIT 'B"vANDLARGE 
27 Soprano Answers to any three clues in this 
L y R A B R 

IG 
A L 
lAS 
40 Behold, jn Mitchell puzzle are available by touch-tone

AN 
L E 
N T
A L 
MA 
MIE 
Bayonne

Cajun Chicken Breast 
28 Started the phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ eachN D E S
B E 
TO 
A R 
E 
A L 

bridge play 41 House wing minute). Macaroni & Cheese 
Ham & Broccoli Rolls 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
C 1984 Chronicle Features o.utMJted by l.h'Wersal Press Syndlade 
1 

'f.I\-\1\T AR£ '{O\l 13\JDO'i, I~ '{OIJ GOit-IG TO SA.i T\.111\11< n~ E.IJEN WW<:N YO\llt MOM GDI\\G Th BE 1-lt.RE, 
GElS 'O~C\::? iOO'Rt. CRP..Z'{ .' 
"That time was just too close, George! Jimmy was headed straight for the snake pit when 
c 1990 Unrversal Press Syod1cate I grabbed him!" 
aaeeeeoeoeeooooaeeoeoeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeooeoeee~ 
HYPNOTIST 
TOM JD)JEJLUCA 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1990 s:oo p.m. WASHINGTON HALL 
I 

ADMISSION IS ONLY $3 AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 


Sports
page 20 Wednesday, September 12, 1990 
Notre Dame men's soccer team faces Loyola today 
By RICH KURZ . . . . 
Sports Writer agamst St. Loms earlier this season. The Irish may also be af­
After facing two Top 20 fected by an unstable situation teams last weekend, the Notre at goalkeeper. Junior Peter Dame men's soccer team will Gulli had been the starter, but get a bit of a reprieve tonight. freshman walk-on Matt Fitz The Irish play the Loyola Ram­was inserted as the starter for 
blers in Chicago before meeting the N.C. State game. The start­another Top 20 opponent, the ing position for tonight's game, St. Louis Billikens, Friday however, hasn't been deter­night. mined yet. 
The Ramblers are coming off of a horrible season in which To make things tougher for they finished dead last in the the Irish, the man minding the North Division of the MCC. To net for Loyola has given Notre make matters worse, they lost Dame trouble in the past. their leading scorer from last "They have an outstanding season to graduation. The Irish goalkeeper,» said senior co­manhandled Loyola last season, captain Paul LaVigne. "When beating them 4-0 in Chicago we were freshman, he must and 3-0 at Notre Dame. Never­have stopped about eight shots theless. Notre Dame cannot af­from six yards out. He's just ford to ignore this Loyola team. phenomenal." 
The Ramblers return seven starters from last year's team, On the other hand, consider­including sophomores David ing the series record, Notre 
Forsythe and Jay Kreikmeier Dame might have a reason to who were both members of the look past the Ramblers. The MCC All-Newcomer team. The Irish have never lost to Loyola. two played well in 1-0 loss see SOCCER/ page 16 
BY FRANK PASTOR But just one day after his changes on the offensive lin team was voted tops in the na­Backup center Gene M 
Associate Sports Editor 

tion, Holtz saw only potential has been moved to quick 
Notre Dame will enter Satur­where others see preeminence. and Lindsay Knapp is the day's regular-season opener "We have the chance to be a jected starter at tight tackle. against Michigan with a sur­good offensive football team," plus of talent but a lack of fo­said the fifth-year Irish coach, Injuries are not limited to cused preparation, Head Coach "but not at the present time. offensive line. Sophomore 
Lou Holtz announced at Tues­Our progress in the next three back Dorsey Levens, the day's press conference. days will be critical." tailback coming owt of sprin practice, injured his knee over 
The Irish return eleven The final three days of prac­the summer. He practiced on starters (six on defense, five on tice before the Michigan opener Monday and Tuesday, but offense) and 47 lettermen from should provide answers to status for the Michigan game last year's 12-1 squad, but the questions on the offensive line, doubtful. off-field distractions of recent a unit which has been plagued The tailback situation is rein weeks have interfered with the by injuries and prepares to face forced with the return of Tony team's continuity and consis­one of the finest defensive pro­Brooks to the Irish fold. Holtz tency, particularly on offense. grams in the country. said that Brooks will split 
"We have worked the team tailback duties with senior harder than we ever have in fall The offensive line has suf­quad-captain Ricky Watters, practice," Holtz said. "We have fered numerous aches and although Watters will get more established football play­pains during the preseason, but ~tarting nod. ers, as good as any I've ever it was dealt only two major in­had. juries. Junior guard Bernard "Tony Brooks is only 
Mannelly broke his foot on the to come on," said Holtz. "He 
"But this has been a difficult first day of practice and will be not close to the form he was a time, the one time it has af­out indefinitely. Then senior year ago because he missed fected my preparation. There Winston Sandri, who had been spring practice." has been a lot of inconsistency pencilled in at starting quick Defensively, Holtz fears the on offense, and I look at it as tackle, partially tore a knee unknown with respect to Michi­my fault. I've done a better job ligament last week. Sandri is gan's offensive firepower. in preseason." expected to miss three to four 
weeks. 
"''m sure the element of 

Public accusations of steroid prise is with the University use, mistreatment of injured "We have not had our five Michigan," Holtz said. "I players, recruiting violations starting offensive linemen in no idea what they will do uttooln­and illegal payments to players pads at any one time," Holtz sively. Michigan's ability to ru have rocked the team since the said. "That has been the most the football always scares beginning of fall practice. frustrating thing." and then the passing game Through it all, Holtz has done Elvis Grbac also. everything in his power to keep In order to cope with the re­the players focused on the task cent rash of injuries, Holtz an­see OFFENSE/ page 16 at hand. nounced a couple of position 


.. 
-. 
Popular slogan has nation prepared to 'Just Do It' 
It has become more than Nike's marketing brainchild, more than a verbal play­ground in which Bo Jackson has been able to showcase his athletic prowess. No longer is it just a simple statement to sell a shoe. 
It has become one of the • 


most revered statements in Scott Brutocao the nation, exhibited in no finer fashion than on the Irish Items 
Notre Dame campus. 

· Most persons on campus by now have noticed an overabundance of the state­ment "Just Do It, " located on posters, flyers, ad­vertisements, billboards, t-shirts, shoes and other athletic apparel. 
It is said with shameless repetition by coaches who want to see their athletes perform. Fans say it because it epitomizes what sports accomplishment is all about. Notre Dame students say it because it cuts through the clutter of idle talk. 
That it has transcended a marketing plan for Nike is a tribute to its advertisers' talent. The nation has latched on to this short, catchy imperative statement and molded it into a rallying cry transmitted through mass communications. 
Nike's second catch phrase, "Bo knows," also has been catapulted out of the advertising arena and into the vocabulary of Americans everywhere. 
Apparently Nike has a beat on the pulse of Amer­ica. I've heard hybrid versions of their ads, from the jovial family observation "Grandma Punderbottom knows peach pie," to the frank "Just do me." 
At Notre Dame, the "Just Do It" statement has been used for football t-shirts, sports themes, and Bo Jackson tributes. People walk around with a prodigious "JUST" on the front of their shirts and "DO IT" on the back. A shirt-wearer could pay no higher tribute to a message than that. 
Does this simple sentence present a threat to the mindset of the Notre Dame student, who has been taught to be responsible, to be considerate and to plan an action before performing it? Certainly Our Lady of the Lake would not subscribe to such a self­indulgent philosophy. 
Well, we're not talking sexual philosophy here. It applies to resolve, to determination, to wanting something bad enough that you're willing t'o act in­stead of talk, and Notre Dame could use this philos­ophy in its sports programs and its everyday life. 
The involvement reaches further into the athletic program at Notre Dame. The 1989 baseball team's slogan was "Just Do It," and a contemporary t-shirt says, "Lou Knows Football" on the front and "Just Do It" on the back. 
It's just an effective motto. Cut through the muck to the heart of the matter. It expresses such a drive, a singularity of purpose, that any sports team or athlete can learn from it. 
Don't say it; do it. Don't talk about getting into shape; run five miles. Don't elaborate on your team's weaknesses; improve on them. Don't com­plain about how much homework you have; get it done. 
There's too much talk in this world already. 




