

VOL. XXIII NO. 94 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Modrow pushes for immediate reunification of Germany 
,~J' 
~··· 

Clash over Cheney's visit 
AP Photo 

Leftist demonstrators clash with riot police during a rally outside the gates of Clark Air Force Base at this city, 50 miles north of Manila Monday. Scores were hurt during the clash which happened on the eve of U.S. Defense Secretary Richard Cheney's tour of the U.S. facility. Story on Cheney's Asian trip, page 3. 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -East German Premier Hans Modrow, pressed by mass emigration and a crumbling economy, ap­pealed Tuesday for immediate reunification talks under a formula worked out with the Allied victors of World War II. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the West German chancellor, urged Modrow's government to create a social security system as generous as West Germany's as a means of stopping the flight. 
More than 400,000 people have left the East for West Germany in the past year, most of them skilled workers, after giving up hope of significant 
Seven drown in icy rescue effort 
MAMMOTH LAKES, Calif. (APJ -Boats and helicopters crisscrossed Convict Lake on Tuesday, searching for the bodies of three teen-agers and four would-be rescuers who fell through thin ice during an out­ing for a group of young of­fenders. 
Some of the victims struggled to stay afloat in the icy water for 15 minutes before disap­pearing Monday, witnesses said. 
"We could see them bobbing around," said volunteer fire­fighter Jim Lambert. One pleaded, "Throw me a rope!" but they were too far from shore. 
The hole they fell through froze over within hours. Divers recovered the body of 
U.S. Forest Service ranger Clayton Cutter, 31, on Tuesday, said Mono County sheriff's spokeswoman Gail Merritt. 
Two divers at a time, able to withstand the 32-degree water for only 1 0-minute spans, were dropped from helicopters into the water where the victims were last seen. Marker buoys bobbed near holes in the ice on the remote lake on the east side of the Sierra Nevada. 
Although sunny, the tempera­irnprovernent in living condi­tions at horne. 
Kohl met with West German industrial leaders Tuesday to draft plans for "solidarity with East Germany," and told jour­nalists his government would help finance unemployment benefits and pensions for East Germans. 
He was vague about the de­gree to which West Germany would underwrite the costs of East Germany's transition to capitalism, however, saying only that Bonn could provide "start-up financing" for the benefits. 
His references to German 

AP Graphic 
ture was near zero when the recovery operation began. Cut­ter's friends stood on shore as divers pulled his body, the first to be found, out of the water 200 yards away. 
"We go ice skating out there all the time. It's gonna be hard to go out there now," said fel­low ranger Rick Misner. 
The recovery could be ham­pered because in the extreme cold the bodies may sink to the bottom of Convict Lake, which is 140 feet deep at its deepest point, said Mono County Sher­iff-Coroner M.A. Strelneck. 
The 30-member recovery team included divers from Washoe County, Nev., military personnel and helicopters from "social unity" reflected a growing realization among West Germans that they must pay for reunification. Kohl's government has been reluetant to make firm deals with Mod­row, a reform-minded Com­munist whose interim Cabinet will govern only until free elec­tions March 18. 
East Germany's parliament passed a constitutional amendment and legislation Tuesday setting rules for the elections. 
The new parliament will have 400 seats, 100 fewer than the current People's Chamber, and no minimum percentage of the 
hina Lake and Sacramento, and an air boat able to travel on ice from the Truckee Fire Department. 
The teen-age boys, aged 13 to 15, from nearby Camp O'Neal for youthful offenders were part of a group on an outing when they fell through thin ice around noon Monday, Strelneck said. Most of the group had stayed on land. 
"It was horrifying," said Pierre LaBossiere, a reporter for the Mono County Review Herald who watched three of the rescuers go into the water. 
The youths were playing or walking on the ice about 200 yards from shore when the sur­face gave way. Arriving soon after the boys fell through, La­Bossiere said he saw one youth bobbing on the surface in an ice hole. 
As he and dozens of others on shore watched helplessly, two other adult rescuers plunged into the lake in failed attempts to reach the teen-ager still floundering in the icy water. 
The accident happened in the center of the lake, which is a mile long and a quarter-mile wide, said Forest Service 
see LAKE I page 5 

Bush lauds Havel, stays firm on arms 
WASHINGTON (API -Presi­dent Bush gave investment and trade rewards to Czechoslo­vakia Tuesday for overthrowing communist rule but told President Vaclav Havel the United States wouldn't retreat from a precautionary "strong military presence" in Europe. 
Bush gave a warm welcome to the first of Eastern Europe's new reform leaders to visit the White House. 
He called Havel, a onetime dissident playwright who went from prison to the presidency in a year's time, "a man of tremendous moral courage, one of the heroes of the revolution of '89." 
The two leaders talked for 2 1/2 hours, in the Oval Office and over lunch. 
Afterward, Havel said the talks had been "very warm, very open, very friendly," and he invited Bush to visit Prague. 
Bush announced a waiver of 
vote will be needed for a party discuss political, economic and to win seats. In West Germany, legal steps to unity. In the sec­a party must get 5 percent of ond, the Germanys would be the vote. joined by the Allies to discuss 
Modrow, addressing the par­international ramifications. 
liament, said representatives of Modrow said parallel plansthe two Germanys should should be made for a meeting"begin preparing the '2-plus-4' of the 35-nation Conference on 
conference as soon as possi­Security and Cooperation in ble." Europe. 
At a meeting in Ottawa, He again expressed regretCanada, last week, the United that Bonn would not provideStates, Soviet Union, Britain the $9 billion in immediate aid and France agreed with East he requested. "Such aid is in my and West Germany on a two­opinion necessary to counter a stage plan for reunification. further exodus, and this should In the first stage of what be­be of common interest" to both 
came known as the "2-plus-4" formula, German experts would see MODROW I page 4 
HPC unanimously redistricts Senate 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents Council in Tuesday's meeting unanimously approved a resolution which will redistrict the Student Senate by quad. 
The resolution, which was passed unanimously by the Senate on Monday, estab­lished the new districts ac­cording to the location of dorms on the different quads around campus. The first district contains Alumni, Badin, Carroll, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, and Pangborn; the second district is Lewis, Old College, 
Sorin,  St.  Edward's, and  
Walsh.  
On  the  east  side  of  

campus, the third district will include Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, and Zahm; the fourth, Grace, Planner, Knott, Pasquerillas East and West, and Siegfried. Off­campus constitutes the fifth district the Jackson-Vanik amendment that restricts trade relations with communist nations that inhibit Jewish emigration. 
The waiver clears the way for negotiation of a trade agree­ment and the eventual award of most-favored nation trading status, which would provide Czechoslovakia the most liberal access possible to American markets. In return, the Czechoslovak Parliament would have to enact a law ending the former communist govern­ment's restrictive emigration policies. 
Bush also authorized the Ex­port-Import Bank to operate in Prague and said he would sup­port readmission of Czechoslo­vakia to the International Mon­etary Fund and World Bank. Bush authorized sending Peace Corps volunteers to Czechoslo­
see HAVEL I page 4 
In other HPC news, Book­

store Basketball Commis­
sioner Kevin McGee an­
nounced that sign-ups for 
the tournament will be held 
Sunday, February 25 in the 
Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy 
from 1 to 4 p.m. The Hall of 
Fame game will be held 
March 30. 
The Charity Ball will be held on April 20, benefitting the Catholic Relief Services as well as the Food Bank in Michiana. Student help is needed, and meetings are held Thursdays at 7 p.m. at the Sorin Room in LaFor­tune. 
The Off-campus represen­tative announced that the of­fices of the Off-campus commissioner and the Off­campus senator will be com­bined, pending a vote by HPC and the Senate. The com­missioner will sit on both the Senate and the Hall Presi­dents Council to increase communication between the two. The resolution will be voted on by the HPC in two weeks 
The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1990
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Fashion fads never appear to wear out 

After weeks of--------­
whining, I'd finally 
convinced my mom to 
trade in my passe 
Holly Hobbie lunch­
box for the new, chic 
Superstar Barbie 
model. I'd finally be in 
vogue, part of the 
primary jet set. Paige A. Smoron 
Nothing could have prepared me for the Asst Accent Editor 
devastation I 
experienced the next day. 
Marcy Mitchell showed up with a Straw­berry Shortcake lunchbox and a matching vinyl lunch mat. Another fad had passed me by, and I never really caught up. I'm a slave to fashion. 
Puberty for me was a painful blur of strange fashion crazes. I bought the (Official) Preppie Handbook and mono­grammed my socks. I wore miniskirts and said, "Oh my God, fer sure," like Moon Unit Zappa. I saw "Flashdance" twice and wore sweatshirts with missing shoulders. 
Oh, sure. I took a stand -I refused to wear lime while everyone else was having a neon phase. I only bought one pair of knick­ers. I honestly thought the way Madonna wore her underwear outside her clothes was tacky. But deep down, I secretly wanted to be an arbiter of fashion, even if it meant compromising my values and wearing striped leg-warmers. 
I guess the guys had it worse, though. They had to wear parachute pants and learn to moonwalk. 
My best friend and I had "friendship" everything. To prove our undying loyalty to each other, we bought matching rings, matching earrings and those little charms that look like a heart broken in half and say "BE--FHJ-" on one and "-ST -ENDS" on the other. And remember all those beaded safety pins everyone had? The more you had, the more incrPdibly popular you were. I could swear Marcy Mitdwll cheated and made some herself. 
A lady I work with informed me that you never outgrow fads. They haunt you. even in adulthood. She decorated her entire home aecording to the latest craze, never dream­ing that appliances in a dull shade of avo­cado would go out of style. And how many times have your parents had late-night, rowdy Trivial Pursuit parties? They don't really enjoy it; it's pure fad. They have peer pressure, too. 
I'm learning to live with my disease. I go to bimonthly meetings, where I stand up in front of strangers and say, "My name is Paige X. and I am a faddist." 
Their voices swell reassuringly, "We love you, Paige!" 
llaltingly, I begin my testimony: ''I'm a wreck. I don't know what to do about my manicure... 'Vogue' says I should file square, but 'Elle' says oval is in." 
That's not even the worst part. Last week I saw Marcy Mitchell. She had "Alf' decals on her nails. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 
Ihe__Observer~ 
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)·239-74 71  
Tuesday's Staff  
Systems  Sports  
Mark Sloan  News  
Tim Quinn  John O'Brien  Chris Cooney  
Peter Loftus  
Sports Wednesday  Production  
Molly Mahoney  Accent  Greg Tice  
Paige A. Smoron  Andy Morrow  
Graphics  Barbara Bryn  
Steve  Christina Ortiz  Viewpoint  
Lisa Eaton  
Ad Deslgn  Janice O'Leary  
Shannon Roach  Beckey Paulsen  
Kristie Rolke  
Mindy Breen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
W~ATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 21. 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 


Yesterday's high: 33 
Yesterday's low: 12 
Nation's high: 86 (Fort 
Meyers, Lakeland, and 
West Palm Beach, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -24 at West 
Yellowstone, Mont. 
Forecast: Sunny and warmer today. Highs in the upper 40s. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Lows in the up­per 30s. Cloudy Thurs­day with a 60 percent chance of rain. Highs in the middle 40s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST 
Dancer/choreographer David Dorfman will present a lunchtime performance on Thursday, March 1 at 12:15 p.m. in the Regina Hall Dance Studio at Saint Mary's College. The "brown bag" presentation sponsored by the Saint Mary's department of communication and theatre, is open to the public, free of charge. 
"Resumes for Non-Profit and Government Jobs," a workshop to assist you in preparing a resume for non­profit and government positions. will be conducted tonight at 6:30-7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The workshop will be presented by Paula Cook, Career Counselor, Career and Placement Services. 
Saint Mary's elections for student body and class officers take place today at meal times on the LeMans side of the dining hall. 
Senior formal bid sales will be Tuesday and Wednesday February 27 and 28 in the Notre Dame Hoom. second floor LaFortune from 6-9 p.m. and Thursday March 1 in LeMans lobby, Saint Mary's. At those times bids, Second City tickets, and tuxes may be ordered. 
Cheerleader and leprechaun tryouts informa­tional meeting tonight,at 7:00 p.m. in the football audito­rium of the J.A.C.C. All are encouraged to attend. 
Graham McDonnell of the Good Shepherd Move­ment (teaching in Japan) will be at the CSC today from 9­4 p.m. 
"How to Be Sexually Free" is the topic of a talk to be given by Jeff Guilmont, regional sponsor of Fellowship of Christian Athletes, on Thursday, Feb. 22, at 7:00 p.m. in Farley Hall. The talk is sponsored by F.C.A. of ND/SMC. Hefreshments provided. 
Women United for Justice and Peace is host­ing a pasta lunch at the esc tomorrow from 11:30-1:30. Proceeds will benefit the YWCA Battered Women's Shel­ter. All are weleome. 
The League of United Latin Anwriean Citizens, an organization that promotes civil, political, and cultural events among Latin Americans at Notre Dame will hold a meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in Siegfried Hall. Eleetions will be held and a constitution will be approvml. 
Women Priests: History & Symbol. Profnssor Adela Yarbro Collins of theology, Professor Joseph Blenk­insopp of Biblieal Studies and Gina Perez in the Program of Liberal Studies, class of 1990 will offer a panel diseus­sion on Wednesday, February 21, 1990 at 7::{0 p.m. in tlw Hesburgh Library Auditorium. ~ 
' 
NATIONAL Genetically engineered trees have been dcvel-The Bush administration is pushing rnsnarch into oped, scientists reported Tuesday. The world's 11rst a possible new combatant in the war against cocaine-a genetically engineered trees are poplars designed to be caterpillar with a taste for coca leaves -but ofl1cials grown on large plantations for energy production. A said Tuesday that the insects won't be deployed in South mutant gene from a species of bacteria that commonly America unless local governments approve. Peruvian and causes food poisoning was introduced into the trees, Bolivian growers supply the vast majority of the world's making the poplars resistant to the widely used weedkiller coca leaves, the raw material for cocaine. The embassies glyphosate, which is marketed as Roundup. Growing of Peru and Bolivia did not respond to several requests poplars on plantations has been difficult because the for comment on the proposal. first reported by Th!~ young trees can be crowded out and killed by weeds. Washington Post in Tuesday's editions. Weedkillers often kill or damage the poplars. 
The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that parents
Buckling up may pay off some day in West Vir­suspected of child abuse sometimes may be jailed indefi­ginia. State Sen. Ned Jones introduced a bill Monday that nitely for refusing to disclose the whereabouts of their would give police officers the authority to hand out lot­children. Voting 7-2, the justices permitted the indefinite tery tickets to belt-wearing motorists. The bill would ex­jailing of a Maryland woman for refusing to tell authori­dude drunken drivers or motorists who violate the speed ties where her young son can be found. The boy is feared limit by more than 10 mph. It would be up to the state dead. Society's interest in protecting the boy from harmpolice to figure out how to dole out the lottery tickets, prevails over the mother's claim that her right againstwhich would not be awarded unless everyone in an auto self-incrimination will be violated if she is foreed to reveal had their seat belts on. 
the child's location, the court said. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC

Students who cannot read a road map. 
Closings for February 20, 1990 make change, write a complete sentence or use a 
On February 21: 
knife, fork and spoon correctly will not be al­e In 1947: Edwin Land first 

lowed to participate in extracurricular activities 

demonstrated his Polaroid at Norwell High School in Ossian next fall. The Volume in shares 
Land camera, which used self­Northern Wells Community Schools board has 174.97 Million 
developing film that produced a unanimously adopted 23 basic requirements stu­
black-and-white photograph in dents must meet in order to take part in such ac­
60 seconds. tivities as sports, choir, school plays and the 
e In 1965: Black activist 
marching band. NYSE Index Malcolm X was shot to death
181.37 {). 2.38 
Sen. Dan Coats has accused Chicago 

by assassins identified as Black Mayor Richard Daley of violating a 1986 agree­S&P Composite 
Muslims as he was about to 
327.99 ..!) 4.73
ment to support only a third airport site selected address a rally of several hun­

Dow Jones Industrials 
by a committee of officials from both Illinois and dred followers in New York. 


2596.85 ..!) 38.74
Indiana. The mayor announced last week a $5 

e In 1972: President Nixon billion proposal to build the new facility on resi­
began his historic visit to dential land near the Indiana border. A third air­
Precious Metals 
mainland China.
Gold 'i} $2.80 to $419.90/ oz.
port has long been discussed as a solution to 

e In 1973: Israeli fighter
traffic problems at the world's busiest airport, 

Silver'i} 0.3¢ to $5.343/ oz. 
planes shot down a Libyan Air­O'Hare International, on the city's Northwest lines jet over the Sinai Desert,
Source: AP
Side. 

killing more than 100 people. 
Wednesday, February 21, 1990 The Observer page 3 



Financial Aid Office warns of false funds 
By JANICE O'LEARY Assistant News Editor 
The Financial Aid office at Notre Dame would like the student body to be aware of some recent developments in the case of a possible schol­arship fraud. 
In mid-November, students on campus received a letter from a scholarship search service that goes by the title of either the Academic Coun­cil on Financial Assistance or the National Scholarship Resources Administration, Inc. 
The letter claimed that it could provide sources of potential scholarship money of up to $300 if the student would send $50. 
Unfortunately, some stu­dents have submitted the money and have received no response to date. 
"To my knowledge, no stu­dent has yet to receive a dime." stated Joe Husso, di­rector of Financial Aid. 
He also said that a large number of institutions have received the same letter or a variation of it. including Ball State and Western Michigan University. Some of the let­ters have changed the dead­line for the submission of the fee, and the amount has been raised to $60. 
The post office and Fed­eral Trade Commission have become involved in the in­vestigation of the scholar­ship organization. 
The National Association of Student Financial Aid Administration (NASFAA) has been bombarded with calls concerning the legiti­macy of the Academic Coun­cil on Financial Assistance, said Russo. 
According to a recent NASFAA newsletter, the post office has "filed suit against 
this organization for  false  
representation.  No  
judicial  order  has  been  
issued," however.  
Russo  stressed  that  

anyone "who has invested $50 and is still waiting to hear should provide their name to the Notre Dame security department." 
'Til be so shocked if some­one comes in with $300 as a result of this organization," he said. 


4·"'? 
·~ 
WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< American Heart ft 
'rQUR LIFE 
Association 'Y" 

FOR Goo's SAKE ... 


;~K~ SACRIFICE! 
Jb go forth and preach••• And preach we do; through word, television, radio, The Paulist Press and the performing arts...in the cit­ies, on the campuses, at downtown centers. 
To go forth and bring peace••• Seek out the lost, the alienated, those cut off from the Church. Offer them a time of Grace, a community, a sense of peacefulness amidst the turmoil. 
To go forth and seek unity••• Reach out to other Christian tradi­tions, find the touchstones of faith and work toward a common vision of One Church; to foster our unique spiritual kinship with the Jewish people and a greater understanding and sensitivity of other world religions. 
The Paulist Fathers 

If you think this sacrifice is worth It, then call! The Paullsts at 1-800..235-3456. Or write Fr. John F. Duffy, C.S.P., Paulist Fathers Vocation Office 415 W. 59th St. New York, NY 10019 

He's no Young M.C. 

The Observer/L.A. Scott Gilburt Loescher, associate professor in the Government and International Studies Department, dis­
cusses with students issues relating to Central America in a "World Events Rap Session." Held in Grace Hall's Pit on Tuesday, the event was sponsored by Phi Sigma Alpha Society in the Government Department. 

Cheney seeks 'sizable increase' in funding from Japan for U.S. troops stationed there 
TOKYO (AP) -Defense Sec­retary Dick Cheney arrived Tuesday from the Philippines seeking what the United States hopes will be a "sizable in­crease" in Japan's $2.4 billion annual support for American troops stationed here. 
Cheney's visit came as Philip­pine President Corazon Aquino signaled a willingness to work out differences over U.S. bases there, despite her refusal to meet with Cheney during his stay in Manila the previous three days. 
The defense secretary had a warmer reception in Tokyo. 
"The Japanese are very un­derstanding and are very will­ing to help us as much as they can," said a senior Pentagon official traveling with Cheney. 
And even though it was known that Cheney intended to explore with Japanese officials possible 10 percent to 12 per­cent cuts in U.S. troop levels in 
Tonight Thurs Thurs
113 
Friday



z()o
2­
:=>Z 
---' UJ 
Friday
<{U> 

Asia, Japanese government spokesman Taizo Watanabe said officials were not worried by such a development. 
The positive tone set by both sides at the opening of Cheney's visit was in marked contrast to the scenes he has encountered at the other major stops on his two-week Asian tour. 
In Manila, the defense secre­tary was burned in effigy by demonstrators who protested 
U.S. military bases in their country. In Seoul, Cheney met with South Korean officials who were described as "horrified" by his cost-cutting messages and projections of possible troop reductions. 
Despite the coolness of his Manila stopover, Aquino said Tuesday, "I welcome the state­ment of support for this gov­ernment and Philippine democ­racy made by Secretary Cheney on behalf of the United States. 
"I also welcome his reitera-
Cross The Border Grad Lunch Noon-2 Club CupNite Lunch Noon·% Live Phoenix 
Saturday Misfits ·n· DJ's
3Hl 

ITrnllcelfce~llce~ i1m ]])ll&mmi1m~ ~rr&m~ffcelf 
®lfi1cemll&lli1®m1 

tion that the United States will make its best efforts to meet its pledge for foreign assistance," she said, referring to a $96 million reduction in money for the use of six military bases this year. 
The military sessions in Tokyo appear free of the tense wrangling that scars the two nations' economic relations, given that the United States looks to Japan as the anchor of its Asian military strategy, and the Japanese prosper under the protective U.S. military wing. 
"The Japanese are the linch­pin of our military strategy in Asia," the U.S. official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They're very sup­portive of our presence." 
Cheney was expected to tell the Japanese what he already has told the South Koreans ­that he is under congressional pressure to get them to double over the next three years their financial support for basing 
U.S. troops in their countries. 
The official traveling with Ch­eney said the defense secretary did not intend to press the Japanese to put forward an ex­act amount at this juncture. Each year, the Japanese pro­vide around $2.4 billion of the $7 billion it costs America to base the 50,000 troops here and in Okinawa. 
"We do not have any num­bers.... We're confident they understand our requirements," the official said, adding, "We're hopeful that over the years we'll see a sizable increase in Japanese support for U.S. forces here." 
The U.S. official said Wash­ington had received indications of such increased support from Japanese officials during pre­liminary talks leading up to the Cheney visit. 
Pentagon sources have said they are studying plans by which at least 10,000 to 12,000 troops could be withdrawn from the 120,000 based in the Pacific Rim nations. That would mean a reduction of 5,000 troops in Japan. 
The study is part of a re­assessment of the U.S. military role in the Pacific that Cheney must send to Capitol Hill by April 1. Some lawmakers are demanding cuts in overseas forces in light of reduced su­perpower tensions. 

Aft R 0 u N D
Pasquerilla East at Pasquerilla East Neg Lyons 
Aff Grace 1 at Pasquerilla West Neg Pasquerilla West 
Aff Pangborn at Pangborn Neg Alumni 

A debate on the Independence of Soviet Republics will be held 
page 4 The Observer 
Speaker foresees autonomy for Lithuania 
By BETSY PUNSALAN 
News Writer 
Nothing less than indepen­dence is acceptable to Lithuani­ans, said Victor Nakas, Branch Manager of the Lithuanian In­formation Center in Washing­ton, D.C., in a lecture Tuesday. 
Nakas' lecture, "Lithuania: Is Independence Possible?". was part of a series titled "Democracy in Eastern Europe Week" sponsored by Student Government. 
"For Lithuanians, the issue is not one of establishing inde­pendence, but rather of restor­ing il," Nakas said, noting that the country has been plagued intermittently with Soviet occu­pation since the eighteenth cen­tury. "It is not secession that is called for, but for the with­drawal of an illegitimate mili­tary and political force." 
The current revolution in Eastern Europe has heightened Lithuania's urgency towards democracy, but Nakas pointed out that the Lithuanians first showed the Germans and the Czechs the impact that peaceful mass demonstrations could have. "[Lithuania) was the mentor, not the pupil." 
Nakas stressed two main 

Havel 
continued from page 1 
vakia by autumn to teach English. 
Hegarding military forces, Havel has called for disarma­ment throughout Europe and has asked the Soviet Union to withdraw the 75,000 Soviet 
troops in Czechoslovakia. Some Czechoslovak leaders have called for eventual dissolution 
CEBERG DEMTES 
.s.idil :wm 
Aff Fisher Neg Breen-Phillips 
reasons why Lithuanians aspire to democracy. First, "they see daily reminders that their cen­tralized economic system is a miserable failure," Nakas said. "Lithuania retains a living col­lective memory among its older citizens of the independent, market oriented, pre-Commu­nist period which feeds the con­viction that there is a viable al­ternative to the current Soviet system." 
Second, Nakas stated that "by far, the most important component is the overwhelming sense among the people of Lithuania that the political and economic system that they de­sire to throw over was imposed upon them by a foreign power." 
Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev and the Lithuanian peo­ple have different understand­ings of perestroika, Nakas said. Gorbachev introduced the concept as "a series of cen­trally directed political reforms designed to make the economic system of the Communists work." 
In contrast, perestroika in Lithuania "has evolved into a grass roots movement designed to bury what is perceived among Lithuanians to be the 
of NATO, along with the War­saw Pact, the Soviet-led alliance to which Czechoslovakia be­longs. 
In his public comments, Bush said. "I know I can speak for all Western leaders when I say that the Atlantic Alliance will continue to play a vital role in assuring stability and security in Europe at this great and his­toric moment. 
Bush said NATO perhaps should have a broader role than at present. 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
Wednesday, February 21 
9:00 p.m. 
Location at Breen-Phillips 

Q UA R TERFINA L 
corpse of communism and in its place to resurrect an indepen­dent nation-state," he said. 
Lithuania's economic inde­pendence from the Soviet Union would be difficult, but not im­possible, Nakas stated. While Lithuanians desire to be "masters of their own destiny, politically and economically," they will remain linked to the Soviet economy for some time. 
Lithuania's Supreme Soviet election on February 24 will in­volve two main parties: the Sajudis independence movement and the Lithuanian Communist party. Nakas predicted a Sajudis majority, noting that "a Sajudis victory in the February elections will guarantee imple­mentation of concrete parlia­mentary measures laying the basis for independence." 
"It is reasonable to expect a formal decision by Lithuania's parliament before summer re­asserting the country's political independence." 
Lithuania is a small country northeast of Poland and is the largest of the three Baltic states. 

There are o~:O in cash prizes to the winners of the March 29 /L ~-TALENT SHOW !', 
NIGHTCLUB 


~~ s 0 ~\___;~: ;''
To audition for the show please apply at the Student Activities 
'-~/

office b FEBRUARY 28. ~ 
Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
German Reunification Poll 
Results of a survey of people 18 years old or more in eight Eastern and Western European countries asked If they favored or opposed German reunification. 
Somewhat favorable Somewhat opposed or very favorable l No answer l or very ofposed 
Britain -­
r-­
France Italy Hungary Poland 

------. -···--·--,---:-=:-:-::--­
Soviet Union*  ~---.  51%  1gok  30%  
Spain  73%  
West Germany  80%  llfM  



* Poll was carried out only in Moscow region. 3% 

Source: GSA Institute APrT. Dean Caple 

Modrow 
continued from page 1 
governments, the premier said. 
West Germany has approved the equivalent of about $3.5 billion for projects over which Modrow's government has little control. 
-

East and West Germany should issue a statement guar­anteeing Poland's western bor­ders, Modrow said. Kohl, con­cerned about conservative sup­port in the December elections, has not made a public, unequivocal declaration that he recognizes those borders. 


---------------------:-=""'-"""'--""'-~-!!!!!!­
Wednesday, February 21, 1990 The Observer page-s 
Holy Cross residents make housing plans for next year, plan celebration of final year 
-
-



START YOUR DAY THE "SPUDS" WAY LOOK FOR MY DONUTS THURSDAY! 
TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 

3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
-
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
As of the end of this semester Holy Cross Hall will no longer house male Notre Dame stu­dents as it will officially close its doors after more than one hundred years. 
According to William Kirk, rector of Holy Cross, the hall currently houses 200 students out of a maximum occupancy of 
212. After the closing of the dorm was announced at the end of last year, the Office of Stu­dent Residences decided not to house freshmen in the dorm this year. 
Kirk said the residents, "have known about it for a while and are taking it pretty well. The Housing Office has done a good job at finding a wide range of spots for them." 
Special to The Observer 
An exhibition of 110 works by 13 nationally and internation­ally recognized contemporary Hispanic photographers opens February 25 at the Snite Mu­seum of Art at Notre Dame. 
Titled New Traditions: Thir­teen Hispanic Photographers, · the exhibition questions as­sumptions about ethnicity and art, appraising the artists on their individual merits and dis­pelling notions of a stereotyped ethnic style. It will be shown in the Snite's O'Shaughnessy Gal­leries through May 6. 
The artists --from Chile, Cuba, Colombia, Venezuela, Spain, Brazil and the United 

PiiRii.iiRiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiaaliiiilliiiiRIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiR•IIIIIillililililiiliillllliiillliliilill 
HAPPY 28th BIRTHDA BRIAN HINES! 
Ask me about the RULE AGAINST 
PERPETUITIES ..... 
.r B TI'l!3D\IJDBD. <;®!Mlrn®V'. [l®l!3 ~rnl!3D®O!J~ EPrn®EPD.rn 
BY OSCAR WILDE 

The "Hogs" of Holy Cross will be transferred into open spaces in almost every male dorm on campus. Father Gerald Lard­ner, rector of Grace Hall, has allotted the greatest number of spaces for the transfers. Forty residents will be placed in sec­tions of two floors in Grace. Kirk said this will help keep some of the old Holy Cross sec­tions intact. Other dorms will be able to let roommates stay together in their old arrange­ments. 
Kirk said, "Holy Cross had been scheduled for closing in years past but a housing crunch on campus kept it open for a few more years." Kirk suggested that there are sev­eral causes for the closing of the hall. 
One reason for the closing is that it will help the effort to 
States --are Marga Clark, Benedict Fernandez, Marco Kalisch, Adal Alberto Maldon­ado, George Malave, Becky Mayer, Tony Mendoza, Marcelo Montecino, Emilio Rodriguez-Vasquez, Geno Rodriquez, Se­bastiao Salgado Jr., Ricardo Sanchez and Andres Serrano. Their works represent the vari­ety of ideas and imagery pro­duced by contemporary His­panic photographers. 
The exhibition reveals the high caliber of the artists and their broad range of tech­niques, viewpoints and subject matter. Some work as photo­journalists, portraying contem­porary society with documen­tary realism. Others create even the ratio of male to female students on campus since ad­missions of women have in­creased greatly in the past few years. 
Another reason Kirk offered was that the property itself is not owned by the University. It is the property of the Holy Cross Brothers. 
Plans for using the dorm for alternate uses are "still up in the air" according to Kirk. The building itself is also very old and is deteriorating both inside and out. The cost of these re­pairs would be too great, ac­cording to Kirk. 
After the Easter Holiday the Holy Cross Hall Council will hold a "Hog Week" to celebrate the history of the hall. There will be dances and activities in celebration of the dorm's last year. 
Photo exhibition planned for Snite 
studies in form and color, while still others experiment with the technical processes of photog­raphy to arrive at new and ex­pressive images. 
An illustrated 76-page, bilin­gual catalogue is currently in publication and will be avail­able from the museum shop for $9.95. A full-color poster will also be available. 
In conjunction with the ex­hibit, South Bend photographer and teacher Steve Moriarty will present a noon talk on the thir­teen Hispanic photographers March 27 in O'Shaughnessy Galleries. The public is invited. The exhibition is made possi­ble by a grant from American Express Co. The American Ex­
press Philanthropic Program supports a variety of local, na­tional and international pro­grams in the areas of cultural diversity and national heritage, as well as education, employ­ment and training. Funding is provided by Amer­ican Express Co. on behalf of Ayco Corp., American Express Travel Related Services Co., Shearson Lehman Brothers, IDS Financial Services and American Express Bank Ltd. 
Lake 
continued from page 1 
spokeswoman Margaret Gorski. 
Two Camp O'Neal counselors, Dave Meyers, 53, of Bishop and Randy Porter of June Lake, fell into the lake when they tried to save the youths, Strelneck said. Cutter and Vidar Anderson, 58, a volunteer firefighter from 
l Long Valley, followed them into : the frigid water. 
Two of the missing teen­agers were identified as David Christopher Sellers, 15, of Tu­lare and Shawn Rayne Diaz, 15, of Dinuba. 
Two other youths fell into the water, but survived: a 15-year­old boy who was treated for hypothermia at Centinela Mammoth Hospital and re­leased and a teen-ager who clambered out of the water on his own and didn't require treatment. 
A paramedic plunged through 
_the ice when he tried to reach the teen-agers and went down three times before a diver pulled him out. He was hospi­talized overnight. 
The privately operated pro­bation camp is for young people convicted of relatively minor offenses. 
Convict Lake, just south of the Mammoth ski resort, got its name from a shootout between a posse and convicts in the late 1800s. 

Viewpoint
page 6 
Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
_The Obset:Ver __ 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Edltor·ln·Chlef Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager.. . ..... Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blasi Systems Mgr. ..Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstlne Gill Controller .Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers1· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· icies of the adm1mstra11on of e1ther 1nst1tUt1on The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of the majority of the following Ed1tOr·1n·Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor Commentaries. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 
Iceberg Debate to focus on secession of Soviet republics 

The topic of the Quarterfinal round of the 1990 leeberg De­hates will focus on the right of individual n~publics to seeede from the Soviet Union and bf~­come independent nations. This is a very current and con­troversial intl'rnational lopie. Hepuhlics, surh as the Baltic Slates bPli<we that tlw Soviet Union is an occupying force which is in tlwir country ille­gally. Yet for the Soviet Union it is argued that allowing any n~publies to secPdP could start a prl'redent that leads to a eountry cornplell'ly dissolved and disorganizl'd. It is also questionable wlwthPr or not tlwse statPs would he able to survive ecorwmically without tlw support of Moscow. as WPll as wlwtlwr tlw Sovil't Union's already troubiPd Peonomy could survive surh losses. With tl11~ push for dPmo<Tacy in Eastern Europe, Gorbadwv will have to dedde if he can afford to allow individual nations to secede. 
The strongest point in favor of secession is a historical one. The Soviet Union is recognized hind Gorbachev's unwillingness
By Matthew P. Thiel 

to release independent re­
publies is based on the stability as an occupying force in several 
of the Soviet Union and those n~gions such as Lithuania, small nation-states after such a Latvia, Estonia, and Azerbai­change. Gorbaehev has a policy jani. These countries have similar to President Reagan's many ethnic differences with "domino theory," which as­Hussians such as different lan­sumes that by setting a prece­guages, different religions, and dent of allowing individual re­separate histories. The United publics to secede, the entire States does not reeognize Soviet Union will start to 
Lithuania and Latvia as part of crumble. Because of many the Soviet Union. In fact. both problems peristroika has been countries have independent mn­having, Gorbaduw would not bassies in Washington D.C. be able to survive a breakup of Many of the regions under So­parts of his country. Tlw pf­viet domination were acquired ill••••••••••iilllilil fects of an 
ousted Gorhachev 
SI'<Tetly and illegally under in­ternational law. The Baltic States, for instance, were inde­pendent from 1918 until 1939, when Stalin and llitler divided Eastern Europe among them­selves. The republics have fallen und1~r forced Sovil't rule Pver since. 
Many of the republics of the Soviet Union which border other countries have ethnic cul­tures so different from the Hussians that inborn animosity is bound to exist. Hepublics on the southern border of the So­viet Union have large Muslim 
populations which outnumber the Hussians. These republics hold no confederation with thn Soviet Union and are demon­strating vigorously for their freedom. The countries believe in their indepnndence because of their right for self determi­nation which was taken by So­viet Union. 
The fundamental reason be-being replaced by a hard-liner could very easily prove detri­mental to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. It could also destroy many of the advances· made with tlw Unitnd•States. 

Independent nation-states such as the Baltics would caus1~ severe economic problems in the Soviet Union. The Baltics provide large amounts of food and also have important winter sea ports which are invaluable to the Soviet Union. With food lines already long in Moscow, freeing tl11~ Baltic States would only make them worsn. Con­sider also the position of these new budding countrins. Lithuania. Latvia and Estonia may be able to feed tlwmsPivPs, but without Soviet oil and man­ufactured goods, their indus­tries would crumble. The Soviet Union has invested over fifty years into these republics. Tlwy will he very resistant to change. 
Then• are in fact many mon• questions about tlw right of in­dividual Soviet Hnpublics to Sl'­cede and b!'ronw imll'pnmlnnt. Tonight at 9 p.m. th1~ quartPrfi­nal round of thn I<J'JO lcl'lwrg Debatl's will focus on tlw resolution "That tlw Union of Soviet Socialist Hepublics should allow its individual rP­publies to secede and beconw indepPndent nation-states." 
Matthew P. ThiPl is a senior electrical and computer engi­neering major and is Chairman of thP 1990 Iceberg Debates. 
Starvation story lacks good taste 
Dt•ar Editor: 
It is with great pain and shock I record my strongest protest against the eruel mock­ery the Accent article published on Feb. 14 has made of the starving people of Ethiopia. Sense of humor and amusement should not be incompatible with our morality. I do not mind the author's crazy fantasies about smearing food-stuff on women's bodies, ete. (What a great sense of humor.) But it is inhuman and immoral to think of poor peoples' life and death struggle in such a callous and 
DOONESBURY 
ignorant way. 
S. P. Udayakumar 
lnst. for International Peace Studies Feb. 15, 1990 
ND to divest? 
Dear i;'ditor: 
Now that Nelson Mandela is out of prison and calling loudly for sanctions against the apartheid regime, will the Notre Dame Board of Trustees and Father Oliver Williams continue to support Mr. Mandela's enemies, their brutal police and army, with continued investment? 
Peter Walshe Professor of Government Feb. 12, 1990 
LETTERS Controversy over Maine explosion explained 
Dear Editor: 
As a history freak, I may be the sole reader of the Observer who turns to the "Almanac" feature before perusing any­thing else in the paper. The February 15 "Almanac" moves me to compliment its editor, both for a fine sense of historical ambiguity and a nice way with words. 
The Chicago Tribune's "Almanac" reported that the USS Maine "was blown up" on February 15, 1898, and went 

on to attribute the Spanish­over a decade ago eondudnd American War to the event. The that an aecidental internal inci­passive voice of the Big City dent sunk the Maine. Battl<~­Trib's verb implied that some ships are dangerous toys. They blower-upper-some dastardly do blow up. Spaniard, no doubt-did the I suppose the Maine contro­dirty deed, and that war was versy is not currently quite as the inevitable consequence. In earth-shaking as some of the contrast, your "Almanac", other stuff reported in the Ob­surely plucked from the same server. But, for those few of us wire-service filler, reported who think hardly anything in­that the Maine "blew up, ... teresting has happened since escalating tensions with Spain." 1901, it is nice to know that The Observer's active verb, and Notre Dame's memories are the rest of the sentence, is dead safe in good hands. on. 
From the first, there was ar­gument about the cause of the 
Bob Kerby

explosion. Finally, a deep-sea Associate Professor of J/is'­
investigation of the hulk di­
tory

rected by Admiral Hyman Hick-Feb. 16, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
tR. ... AS YOU KN0/4 HUNK, AU OF THt 5TUPI85 W&R&... UH... /NaJN(I.)b/V&. 
I [)()85 THATMEAN 
AUOUR fi!ll(I)M­MENI:14TIONS 
ARb !NCONCUJ­
5/Ve1700~ HUH~ \ .=:::.....r-....~­
~COIEH'• 8CXJF'51t~ 
YOU IN 
7H/3R&~ 
HUNI<'5 1</U/NG US/
I 

FJA()LUCK, 
5UCKAH! THe AIR-HEAl? tufiNT FORWNOI! 
\ 

'Thought takes man out of servitude, into freedom.' 
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow 
-~-----~ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~ 
Viewpoint

Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
page 7 

Barriers to equality feed on human apathy 
Emmett Till was fourteen tions of the lie society born into a system that is propagated by tradition must years old when he was Jennifer Hayes lived-petty discrimination. fundamentally wrong, one still be destroyed. People must come unknowingly martyred for the Blatant abuses of human rights, tends to take that system for to see that one needn't step on lofty goal of equality. It is hard On Human Rights such as institutionalized granted. Not only would change one's neighbor to see the sunset to believe that a world could segregation, are much more seem unnecessary but it would better. Everyone can see equal­exist in which two white men are less easily conquered than easily halted than more subtle also appear ludicrous. Those ly well from one's natural van­could murder a young boy in the script of law. One must ask forms of racism, such as ethnic raised in this situation tend to tage point. Equality must not be cold blood and get off scot­just how far-reaching the con­slurs, segregation through subscribe to the "if-it-ain't­feared. Imposed superiority, as broke-don't-fix-it-"school of opposed to earning the respect
free. sequences of the Civil Rights intimidation, and job discrimi­
The situation preceding the Movement were and how much nation. The weapon used to thought. Apathy feeds on such of others, must not be accepted Civil Rights Movement farther must we go to reach combat inequality is analogous perspectives. as just. For just as mandatory reminds one of the harsh real­equality? to a rope strung between two The key to the elimination of respect is no respect at all, so 
imposed superiority is merelyity of today's South Africa. Self-respect was the laurel trees. It can trip the elephant, self-belittlement by the oppres­

There is much to be learned wreath of victory for the Civil but the mice simply run from these early crusaders for Rights crusaders. At last, the beneath, free to continue gnaw­'Self-respect was the lau­sor. Wake up, stand up and join 
hands. The sunset is for all toequality. They fought and won American government admitted ing at the foundations of the 

rel wreath of victory for the share.
a Civil War, the second in our the fallacy of its population's constitution upon which our country's history, by trying to traditions. From the time of the entire nation balances. Civil Rights crusaders.' make friends out of enemies. Brown v. Board of Education Champions of any cause face Jennifer Hayes is a sopho­But it seems their victory was decision, the Blacks knew they the same dilemma: how can more government major and is 
the final barriers to full equality 
only one of ink and paper, had found a friend in the one sway people from a path a member of the Anti­written theories of how the Supreme Court. But friends in which is already well traveled lies in a redefinition of society's Apartheid Network. On Human country we call America high places do little good in the and therefore comfortable and expectations and priorities. The Rights is sponsored by the 
weak foundations of the lies
should be. Everyday realities struggles to break the founda-easy to follow? When one is Coalition on Human Rights. 
LETTERS 

Irresponsible solutions only hinder movement to end apartheid 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the column written by Mr. Paul Peralez in the Feb. 8 Observer entitled "U.S. Racism Condones Apartheid." This column, under the guise of "Free South Africa," is solely an assault on the United States and objective persons. Mr. Peralez's attempt at criticism falls short of its goal. Moreover. the movements designed to end apartheid can only be hampered by this irre­sponsible and biased column. I have divided the column into three main parts: The attack on the United States, Post­apartheid South Africa, and remarks which are outrageous. 
Mr. Peralez attacks the United States and its lack of effective response to the problem of apartheid. The result is not only ~ a scathing commentary, but also empty rhetoric. Peralez asks, "Why didn't Ronald Reagan invade South Africa in defense of freedom just as readily as he invaded Grenada in defense of the same? Why doesn't George Bush provide arms for the South African re­sistance as readily as he de­ployed soldiers to overthrow a dictator in Panama?" The an­swers to these questions are, of course, painfully obvious to Mr. Peralez-The United States is racist. 
Fortunately, a better answer, is found only two paragraphs later. Mr. Peralez states that, "I truly do not advocate the use of violence to overthrow the racist, theologically heretical regime.... " Violence is not the panacea for all the world's problems. Thus, the questions are irrelevant to the topic of apartheid. They only serve to attack the U.S. Perhaps, Mr. Peralez intended to raise our collective conscience and when we were enlightened, South Africa's problems would vanish. 
Mr. Peralez also paints a pic­ture of post-apartheid South Africa which is somewhat dis­turbing. His new government will be "black" and black only. Is not his proposed new gov­ernment the same as the first? The only difference is now any atrocity against an individual's humanity will be committed by blacks. It seems that the poten­tial democracy, which he uses to describe post-apartheid rule is no longer a democracy but a system similar to apartheid with the roles reversed. Imagine this new government, the twenty six million blacks will rule with absolutely. no re­sponsibility to the five million whites. Great democracy. 


Lastly, certain statements made in the column were un­believable. The one major statement reads as follows: "Indeed, there aren't enough white people to kill to make up for the hundreds of thousands of black men, women, and chil­dren who have been slaugh­tered." Here, the potential deaths of five million white men, women, and children are meaningless. It seems as though Mr. Peralez implies that the hundreds of thousands of black lives outweigh the five million white lives. Any discus­sion with equality at its center does not come down to this ab­surd comparison. 

I do not claim to have all the answers, or even some of them. I do not know what should be done about South Africa. What I do know is that apartheid is an atrocity and the problem should be fixed. A new government needs to be formed: a govern­ment in which the people, black and white, will rule. Nothing is accomplished by vehemently preaching sensationalism. Perhaps, the first step is for people, regardless of color, to view the situation objectively. 
H. R. Schmitt 
Dillon Hall Feb. 8, 1990 

Complete divestment allows South African government to increase its power 
Dear Editor: 
The hypotheses made by Paul Peralez in his Feb. 8 column,"U.S. Racism Condones Apartheid," should be discount­ed for three reasons: 1.) Mr. Peralez made a number of mis­takes concerning logic, 2.) Mr. Peralez ignored the ·use of eco­nomic analysis, and 3.) Mr. Peralez neglected the value of a 
U.S. presence in South Africa. 
Mr. Peralez admitted his re­marks were "abusive" but clari­fied his position by stating, "I truly do not advocate the use of violence to overthrow (South Africa)." Yet, in the same breath, Mr. Peralez said he did not advocate violence because "there aren't enough white peo­ple to kill to make up for the hundreds of thousands of black men, women, and children who have been slaughtered." This reasoning could only lead the reader to believe that if there were enough white people, he would fully support wholesale murder of all whites. With this, Mr. Peralez charged that two wrongs make a right. 
The author also wrote that 
the black leadership of South Africa should delete the word "white" and replace it with the word "black" when they revise their constitution. His line of reasoning dictates that black South Africans should institute a regime equally as oppressive and racist as that already in place. He wants South African blacks to become the exact thing which they fight to over­throw: racists. Mr. Peralez' words show he is guilty of the same crimes with which he charged the United States: racism and the use of violence in defense of freedom. 
In addition to the above er­rors in logic, Mr. Peralez charged that U.S. policy con­cerning South Africa was based totally upon white racism. In­deed, he stated, "Only when white people have something to lose does the United States be­come conscious of its commit­ment to freedom ..." 
Perhaps there are some racists at the policy making level, but U.S. foreign policy is not based upon racism alone. Such a generalization is analo­gous to the charge that fresh­men aren't smart enough to have opinions. Some are, some are not. Mr. Peralez simply does not know, or he has not made an effort to gather all of the fac­tors which concern this policy decision. His views represent poor logic and a fanatical approach to problem solving which must be discounted for the lack of rational thought they show. 
In an effort to show Mr. Peralez what some of the "liar(s) and fool(s)" in Wash­ington might have considered before making a policy decision, I would like to look at the eco­nomic side of sanctions. South Africa controls its own mineral reserves and many of those in surrounding countries. It con­trols 86 percent of the platinum reserves and 40 percent of the world's gold. Both of these are vital to our nation's defense and technology industries. 
In addition, over 80 percent of the world's chrome and 48 percent of the world's man­ganese-both essential in the steel-making process-are con­trolled by South Africa. Neither of these minerals are found in the U.S., and the second great­est world supplier is the Soviet Union. Perhaps we might hope to increase trade with the So­viet Union, but would Mr. Peralez like us to get these two important minerals from an­other well-known violator of human rights? I think not. In light of these facts, it can be said that there is a little more going into policy decisions than Mr. Peralez' charge of white racism. Economic analysis is not a tool for "liar(s) and fool(s)" therefore to be ignored, as Mr. Peralez insinuated, but a tool for people who which to make informed decisions. 

Finally, Mr. Peralez ignored the value of a U.S. presence in South Africa. Economic sanc­tions call for all U.S. companies to cease business with South Africa. If a company were to do this, the owners would have to unload their factory and all other goods. Since few people wish to venture into South Africa, the going price for a fac­tory would be much lower than usual. South African en­trepreneurs would have the chance to snap up some of the means of production (already at a low cost) with a currency that has little value outside its own nation. 
If all foreigners were to pack up and leave, this would hand the South African government a dandy opportunity to consoli­date all ownership in the hands of the ruling minority. With this, the U.S. would lose any direct chance of making life better for blacks in South Africa because it would lack the foundation from which to launch any kind of initiative. With a U.S. indus­trial presence in South Africa, a direct impact could be made on the lives of South African blacks. Working for a manage­ment which supports freedo~ would undoubtedly be more beneficial than working for one's oppressors. 
Michael Allen 
Pangborn Hall 
Feb. 12, 1990 


Accent

page 8 Wednesday, February 21, 1990 




Ch · Eb rt · d' k h' " . . The Observer/Andrew McCloskey ns e spms IS son IS show, Thrashing, Bash1ng & Banging," which airs Sundays from 7 tog p.m. 
ND station features variety in DJ's and music selection 
BILL ROSEMANN 
"This message lifts awareness lifestyle which promotes vPgn­sic are qualities sought in new
accent writer and provokes us to take a tarianism. animal rights, and 
D.J's. 'The key stand." the non-use of alcohol. otherThe students' different per­

'w
hydon't Zik is glad that the adminis­drugs, or casual sex," Chris nx­spectives are evident in the 7-9 ingredient to
you tration gives him and all DJ's plained. 
pm "specialty shows." John

introduce the chance to freely spread the Along with exposing this form 
Austin, host of Monday's jazz WVFI's success

this next ideas they embrace. Although of musk to the campus, Chris 
program, explores the world of

song, no one has yet to oppose his and Ted hold contnsts on the Bill?" my 
instrumental music, from B.B. 

is the diversity of views at Notre Dame, a listener air, awarding the winner such King to Duke Ellington and
friend threatened him in his home treasures as Twinkies or tickets and disc jockey, Alex Nunez, anything that is it's DJ's.' town of Charleston, South to the Keenan Hevue party. Past
"improvisational." John, who 

calmly asked. Carolina, after Zik played an shows have been designated 
said he would "listen to music

Was he joking? !low could he anti-Ku Klux Klan song. the "No Fun" night (during .JPW
for a living," once conducted a

do this? I was just doing a story. weekend) anrl the "ValentinP's
"dance" music to eager listen­"He did it just to scare me,stimulating listener-prompted 
not going on the air! My ers. but that's alright because I'm a Day is Over" program. featuring
contest:

shaking hand gripped the mi­The two rhythm masters use soldier," remarked the fresh­two hours of the finest in "hate
"I had a survey to determine

crophone as I nervously swal­"beat mixing" to create half­man resident of Flanner Hall. music."
who was more popular: Burt

lowed and began to speak... "Hard core is by no means DJ's whose programs rio not
hour to hour non-stop song 
Convy or Alan Thicke?" ex­

This headlong plunge into the punk," commented Chris In­appear in the "specialty show" 
collages. Chris finds DJ'ing on
plained the Grace Hall junior. 

world ofWVFI, 64 AM, repre­hours form their own venw~s.
the air and at SYR's a pleasant fante, co-host of Saturday's
sented the station's purpose: "After two hours of gruelling including a mixture of songs
"diversion." Their Wednesday show. He and Ted Leo attempt
the introduction of a new expe­voting, it ended in a tie, so I sent by record companies a11d
show may remind many of the to expand the audience of the flipped a coin and Burt won, 
rience into the Notre Dame their own favorites. A listing of 
intoxicating melodies of our music, which is a mixture of proving Alan would never win
eommunity. own beloved Theodore's. hard rock, punk, and reggae. songs playpd most often by 
Seven years ago the station's anything." To many listeners' surpris1~. WVFI helps construct tlw col­
"The positive message of love, format was ehanged to what peace, and human equality is many hard core bands practice lege music popularity charts. 
"Anything you'd hear in a

Tim Frommer, WVFJ's station spread to the listeners," ex­a socially conscious "straight Although each D.l must play a
night dub. we'll play,"

manag11r and host of the "A edge" philosophy. certain numbPr of songs "in ro­
plained Zik Chandler, host of 
promised Chris Malin, who. 

Pair of Ears Is a TnrriblP Thing tation," earh program is
Thursday's "Reggae Fever." "Ted follows a positive
to Wash~" show, describes as "a along with Luis Munoz, brings unique. 
progn~ssive, altnrnativP, col­Paul BrodPrick, who broad­
lege-musk" program. NPw casts from 3 to 5 pm PVPrY Fri­
artists under small labnls and day, utilizPs bizarrP sound d­
Pxperinwntal music' that most fects ( rirC"us organs. mooing 
students would not easily ac­cows. etc.) to add a touch of 
quire are now availablP to tlw humor to his show. Jason internstmllistener. Many popu­WinsladP, host of Saturday's I0 lar bands sud1 as H.J•:.M .. the am-I pm "Jaysun .lntsarn's Heplcu:Pments, and thP Indigo Oscillating Audio Sculpture." Girls got thPir start through traverses a mammoth range of similar eollege stations. styles from "mellow, 1~tlwn~al" 
Funded by tlw UnivPrsity, 64 new-age to the harsh sounds of AM readws North Dining Hall industrial music. From 1-3 pm and the dorms of Saint Mary's every Friday, Alex Nurwz and Notn~ Dame through an weaves a shimnwring tapestry 
underground "carri1~r current." of "happy, get-in-the-party­This system. running from mood" music. 
LaFortune to all receivers on campus. is not broadcasted ...and then it was ovnr. Re­
over the air waves; thus. it can­leasing the microphone, a not b1~ pieknd up on portable or broad smile crept across my ear radios. face. When would I again be 
"Being changed to FM would able to dedicate one of my fa­gain us both respnet and listen­vorite songs to a good friend nrs," said Tim. with the entire campus as my 
The key ingredient to WVFI's audience'? Even though the ma­success is the diversity of its jority of listeners will never get D.J's. This year, only 12 out of that chance, one can still tune 
118 hopefuls were chosen to in to hear an acquaintance or replace departing personalities. familiar voice introducing new Experience, originality, expres­music on Notre Dame's own sion, and openness to new mu-WVFI,64AM. 


----~ 
Wednesday, Februa~ 21,19~ports Wednesday 
page 9 

SPORTS LIST NBA STANDINGS SPORTS CALENDAR 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Sports Calendar Atlantic Division Home games in all CAPS 
No Pain, No Gain 
w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni 
New York 34 17 .667 Wont 22-2 20·8 Thursday
12-15

Women's NCAA varsity sports with the highest injury ffltes• 
Philadelphia 33 19 .635 11/2 Lost 1 21-4 12-15 26-10 Women's swimming at Eastern 
Boston 30 20 .600 3 1/2 Lost2 18-8 12-12 17-12 Intercollegiate Championship Washington 21 33 .389 141/2 Won3 14-12 7-21 12-19 

Friday
New Jersey 12 38 .240 211/2 Lost 13 8-15 4-23 10-19 
43 25 5-20 Women's swimming at Eastern
Miami 10 .189 Lost 7 5-23 6-29 Central Division Intercollegiate Championship 
Detroit 38 14 .731 -Won 12 23-3 15-11 25-8 Women's tennis vs. ILLINOIS, 6 Chicago 32 20 .615 6 Won 3 20-2 12-18 17-12 
p.m.
Milwaukee 28 23 .549 9 1/2 Lost 1 18-8 10-15 15-14 
25 11 Michigan-Dearborn,
Indiana 27 .519 Lost2 17-7 10-18 16-13 Hockey at Atlanta 23 28 .451 141/2 Lost3 14-9 9-19 15-18 7:30p.m. Cleveland 22 28 .440 15 Lost 2 14-12 8-16 15-18 Saturday Orlando 15 36 .294 221/2 Lost 3 11-15 4-21 10-23 
Women's swimming at Eastern Intercollegiate Championship 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division Women's tennis vs. KANSAS w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni STATE, 10 a.m. Utah 36 16 .692 Won2 25-3 11-13 23·8 
Men's tennis at Minnesota
San Antonio 34 16 .680 1 Won2 22-3 12-13 22-7 
Dallas 29 .569 Won5 9-14 Hockey vs. MICHIGAN­
22 6112 20-8 18-19 Denver 28 23 .549 71/2 Won2 19-6 9-17 15-16 DEARBORN, 7:30 p.m. 
. Gymnastics 25 per 1 ,000 meets 
Houston 23 28 .451 12112 Lost2 19-7 4-21 14-19 Fencing vs. MICHIGAN STATE,
Soccer 19 per 1 ,000 game Minnesota 13 37 .260 22 Won3 11-16 2-21 6-23 
PURDUE, E. MICHIGAN,
Charlotte 9 41 .180 26 Lost 2 8-19 1-22 6-27
3. Field hockey 11 per 1 ,000 games LAWRENCE; at Princeton, Yale,
Pacific Division 

. Basketball 9 per 1,000 L.A. Lakers 37 12 .755 Won2 23-3 14-9 21-7 Penn State Portland 37 14 .725 1 Wont 24-4 13-10 26·9 Sunday
5. Lacrosse 7 per 1 ,000 games Phoenix 32 17 .653 5 Won 5 21-5 11-12 24·10 
Wrestling vs. IOWA, 7:30 p.m. 
Seattle 25 25 .500 121/2 Won2 17-7 8-18 12-15
6. Volleyball 6 per 1 ,000 games Women's tennis vs. MIAMI
Golden State 24 27 .471 14 Lost 3 19-6 5-21 15-17 
L.A. Clippers 21 29 .420 161/2 Lost 3 14-10 7-19 11-19 (OHIO), 9 a.m. 
SOURCE: NCAA News 
The Observer I Laura Stanton Sacramento 14 36 .280 231/2 Won 1 11-15 3-21 8-25 Men's basketball vs. GEORGIA Monday's Games 
TECH, 4 p.m. (NBC)
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY STATISTICS Dallas 96, Cleveland 87 Los Angeles Clippers at Sacramento, (n) 
Monday

Chicago 107, Houston 102 Wednesday's Games Notre Dame Season Hockey Statistics Sacramento 99, Los Angeles Clippers 97 Minnesota at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Women's basketball vs. XAVIER, Record: 17-13-0 Home: 10-6-0 Away: 7-5-0 Neutral: 0-2-0 Detroit 94, Miami 85 Seattle at Miami, 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m.Denver 114, Golden State 109 Portland at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
Player GP G A TP P-PM EN pp GW SH Feb.28 
Utah 115, Philadelphia 102 Orlando at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. 
Bankoske, C 30 27 23 50 4-8 0 9 7 1 Wrestling at Illinois
Tuesday's Games Atlanta at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Kuehl, RW 30 14 27 41 15-46 0 4 1 2 Late Games Not Included Los Angeles Lakers at Denver, 9:30p.m. Men's basketball at Dayton, 8 Zadra, LW 28 14 18 32 19-38 0 5 1 3 Portland 104, Charlotte 94 Boston at Utah, 9:30 p.m. p.m. (SC) 
Seattle 117, Orlando 1 02 Philadelphia at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Janicke, C 30 9 20 29 19-40 1 3 0 0 
Washington 110, Atlanta 107 Thursday's Games 
Arendt, C 29 10 15 25 11-22 0 2 1 0 TOP 25 BASKETBALL
Houston at Minnesota, (n) New York at Washington, 7:30p.m. Black, RW 30 13 8 21 6-12 0 2 2 2 Los Angeles Lakers at San Antonio, (n) Dallas at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Sawyer, D 30 10 10 20 26-62 0 4 2 1 Associated Press college basketball poll,
New Jersey at Milwaukee, (n) Utah at Los Angeles Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Curry, LW 30 10 10 20 15-32 0 5 1 0 with· first-place votes in parentheses,
Boston at Phoenix, (n) Phoenix at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
records through Feb. 18, total points
Markovitz, D 28 3 14 17 16-32 0 2 1 0 
NHL STANDINGS based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17­
Miniscalco, LW 26 5 9 14 6-23 1 0 0 1 
16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1
WALES CONFERENCE

Patrick, D 29 1 11 12 8-16 0 0 0 0 and last week's ranking: 
Patrick Division

Marvin, LW 20 4 7 11 17-34 0 1 0 0 1. Missouri (61 1/2) 24-2 1 ,596 1/2 2
W L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div 2. Kansas (1/2) 25-2 1,510 112 1Guay, W 22 5 5 10 9-18 0 0 1 0 NY Islanders 28 27 6 62 221 218 13-14-4 15-13-2 9-12-5 3. Duke 22-4 1,384 6Copeland, D 23 3 6 9 4-8 0 1 0 0 NY Rangers 26 25 10 62 194 200 14-9-8 12-16-2 10-124 4. UNLV 22-4 1,383 7Pittsburgh 28 28 5 61 258 274 18-13-1 10-15-4 16-12-2
Olson, LW 28 4 4 8 3-6 0 0 0 0 5. Georgetown (1) 20-3 1,379 3
New Jersey 25 28 7 57 219 232 14-13-3 11-15-4 13-9-4
Leherr, D 28 1 6 7 13-26 0 0 0 0 6. Connecticut 22-4 1,127 10
Washington 26 31 4 56 227 224 12-13·2 14-18-2 13-13·0 7. Michigan 19-5 1,088 5Gregoire, D 16 1 3 4 3-6 0 0 0 0 Philadelphia 24 30 8 56 224 220 14-15·2 10-15-6 10-13-3 8. Georgia Tech 19·4 1,042 13
Musty, C 29 2 2 4 0-0 0 0 0 0 Adams Division 
9. Purdue 18-4 1,023 12x-Boston 35 21 5 75 217 169 19-10-2 16-11-3 14-9-3
Vickman. D 22 0 3 3 6-12 0 0 0 0 10. Oklahoma 19-4 998 11
x-Buffalo 33 22 6 72 206 187 20·8-2 13-14-4 15-9-2 18-5 978
Madson, G 30 0 3 3 2-4 0 0 0 0 11 . Syracuse 4
x-Montreal 32 23 7 71 215 180 22-8-3 10-15-4 14-9-1 12. LSU 20-5 943 9Hoelzel, t-7W 6 1 1 2 3-6 0 0 0 0 Hartford 27 26 7 61 210 208 11-14-4 16-12-3 9·11·2 13. Arkansas 21-4 933 8
O'Brien, LW 13 0 1 1 3-6 0 0 0 0 Quebec 10 43 6 26 180 302 6-18-5 4-25-1 3-17-2 
14. LaSalle(!) 22-1 854 14 Musty, RW 6 0 0 0 0-0 0 0 0 0 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 15. Michigan St. 21·5 702 21 Haikola, D 2 0 0 0 1-2 0 0 0 0 Norris Division 
16. Louisville 20-5 666 18 /.) W L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div 17. Oregon St. 19-4 479 16
Lerman, W 3 0 0 0-0 0 0 0 0 
Chicago 33 22 4 70 243 220 20-9-1 13-13-3 9-10-1 18. Minnesota 17-6 453 17
D'Amato, D 3 0 a· 0 1-2 0 0 0 0 
19.111inois 18-6 425 15 Team 30 1-2 Toronto 31 27 3 65 271 266 21-8-2 10-19-1 15-9-1 (tie) Xavier, Ohio 21·2 425 22 Minnesota 26 33 3 55 211 231 21-9-1 5-24-2 12·13-1 
St. Louis 30 22 8 68 220 191 17-9-4 13-13-4 12-12-1 
21. Arizona 17-5 373 20 Detroit 22 31 8 52 228 251 16-12·4 6-19-4 9-13-2 
22. Loyola Mar'mnt. 20-5 313 19
Notre Dame 30 137 205 34~~ 211-463 2 38 17 10 
Smythe Division 23. Clemson 20-5 147 Opponents 30 134 193 327' 212-478 2 33 13 7 24. New Mexico St. 21-3 138 25
Calgary 29 19 13 71 249 204 17-5-5 12-14-8 9-12-3 Edmonton 29 20 12 70 239 208 18-8-5 11-12-7 14-6-4 
25. Indiana 16-6 88 BIG TEN STANDINGS B~SEBALL SALARIES Winnipeg 28 24 8 64 223 220 17-9-5 11-15-3 12-8-2 Los Angeles 26 29 6 58 265 255 16-13-2 10-16-4 10-8-5 
Others receiving votes: St. John's 77,
Big Ten At a Glance 
Highest Baseball Salaries Vancouver 18 35 10 46 183 243 10-13-8 8-22-2 3-14·6 UCLA 40, Georgia 36, Houston 30,Conference oVerall Providence 24, E. Tennessee St. 22,x-clinched playoff berth 
w L Pet. w L Pel 
Alabama 21, N. Carolina St. 21, CaliforniaNEW 'YORK (AP) -The top 10 baseball Purdue 11 2 .833 19 4 .826 
Wednesday's Games Montreal at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. 18, Texas 17, Brigham Young 13, Idaho 5,contracts ~JY average annual values. FiguresMichigan St 10 3 .769 21 5 .808 
Quebec at Hartford, 7:35p.m. New York Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Ohio St. 5, Ala. Birmingham 4, Southern U. 
were obtair led by The Associated Press from Michigan 9 4 .692 19 5 .792 

New York Rangers at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Winnipeg at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 4, Cincinnati 3, Colorado St. 2, Holy Cross player and m<n~agement sources and include Minnesota 8 5 .615 17 6 .739 
Buffalo at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Boston at Chtcago, 8:35p.m. 2, Louisiana Tech 2, Hawaii 1, Jamesall guaranteed mcome but not income from Illinois 8 6 .571 18 6 .750 
Minnesota at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Philadelphia at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Madison 1, Notre Dame 1, S. Illinois 1,potential incen·tive bonuses: Ohio State 7 6 .538 13 10 .565 
Thursday's Games Toronto at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Stanford 1 , UC Santa Barbara 1 . 
Indiana 6 7 .462 16 7 .696 Iowa 3 10 231 11 12 478 Pl.ayer, Club Years Avg.Salary Wisconsin 3 11 .214 13 14 .481 Will Clark. SF 1990-93 $3,750,000 SCOREBOARD 
N'Western 1 12 .077 B 15 . 348 Dave Stewart, Oak • 1991-92 $3,500,000 Monday's Results Mark Davis. KC 1990-93 $3,250,000 
Results from Feb. 14-20 Wrestling (6-7) Notre Dame 5, Colorado 1 Purdue 72, Indiana 49 Mark Langston, Cal 1990-94 $3,200,000 Men's basketball (14-9) Notre Dame 25, Ohio University 6 Notre Dame 6, Iowa 0 Wisconsin 82. Marquette 65 Robin Yount, Mil ,'990·93 $3,200,000 Notre Dame 79, Marquette 76 Hockey (17-13-0) Notre Dame 5, Ball State 4 
Wednesday Game Eric Davis. Cin trd90-92 $3,100,000 
Notre Dame 66, Syracuse 65 St. Cloud State 7-3, Notre Dame 3-Women's tennis (1-3)
Purdue at Illinois Joe Carter. SD 1•990-92 $3,066,667 
DePaul 63, Notre Dame 62 2 Texas 9, Notre Dame 0 
Thursday's Games Paul Molitor. Mil .'990-92 $3,033,333 Iowa at Northwstern Rickey Hend'sn. Ok 1990-93 $3,000,000 Women's basketball (17-6) Men's tennis (10-1) Notre Dame 8, Texas 1 
Wisconsin at Minnesota Kirby Puckett, Minn ,:·390-92 $3,000,000 Notre Dame 99, Detroit 58 Notre Dame 9, Wake Forest 0 Notre Dame 5, Texas-San Ant. 0 

STUD~ENT ACTIYITIES BOARD EVENTS THIS WEEK: 
"Bf-?ADY BRUNCH GENERATION FESTIVAL"­
AUGUST A HALL COCKTAIL PARTY this SattJrday 9-l am in Augusta-tickets $5.00 tJny questions call Nancy Haske x5309 Rem~nder: body fat testing before aerobics today Upcoming Euents: Sophomore Parents ll:Jeel<end, Club Tuesday with Brian Huskey, II Parenthood II, and Security Awareness Day 

-

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
NCAA rethinking fate of juniors considering draft 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -entering pro drafts. that the NFL would be reluc­that type of athlete because let them finish school." Underclassmen who enter the "The baseball player can be tant to eliminate the affidavit they're going to get a good con­However, Georgia Tech coach NFL and NBA drafts should be drafted, find out what he's requirement because "it's a tract and play," Schultz said. Bobby Ross said the choice allowed to maintain their col­worth and it doesn't impact his way of protecting clubs from "But there's going to be a lot of should be up to the player. "l lege eligibility if they change eligibility," Schultz said. "The losing draft picks." young people that are going to see professional football as an 
their mind and decide to stay in same is true for a hockey Ten juniors have already an­flirt with the draft because area of opportunity for some of school. NCAA Executive player. But if a football player nounced that they will enter someone's telling them they're our players, just as a degree Director Dick Schultz said or basketball player wants to this year's NFL draft and an­worth a lot of money, and and a career in business is for Tuesday. be drafted, they must submit other 20-30 underclassmen they're not going to make it others." 
Schultz said college football their names to the league, and may follow suit. Alabama and they're not going to have During a question-and-an­and basketball players should as -soon as they do that, they linebacker Keith McCants, any money and they're not go­swer session, Schultz said he be permitted to use the draft to lose their eligibility." Florida running back Emmitt ing to have any college eligibil­was opposed to paying college determine their worth in the Last Friday, the NFL an­Smith and several other juniors ity left. Those are the people athletes but favors an increase pros. nounced that it was changing are expected to be first-round I'm worried about." in scholarship money to cover 
"Then if they don't like what its longstanding policy barring picks, but some players coming Some coaches attending the all classroom related costs. He they see and decide to stay in juniors from the draft. out early are considered long­NCAA sessions said they sup­said direct payments could school, they should maintain However, players leaving school shots to make it. port the junior eligible rule, cause legal problems because their eligibility," Shultz told early will have to submit an af­Schultz said "unscrupulous while others opposed it. they would create an employer­sportswriters at the NCAA's fidavit to the NFL renouncing agents" are convincing some "I would hate to see college employHe relationship between annual college football preview. their college eligibility. juniors to enter the draft even athletics be just a training the school and the athlete. 
Schultz pointed out that bas­Any change in that policy though they would be better off ground for professional "That would get you into an ketball and football players are would probably require a coop­staying in school. sports," Mississippi coach Billy area like workmen's compPnsa­the only ones who automatically erative effort by the NFL and ''I'm not worried about Brewer said. ''I'd like to see tion and open up a can of lose their eligibility after NCAA. But Schultz admitted McCants or Barry Sanders or them leave these kids alone and worms," he said. 
The Observer accepts classtfleds every business day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Satnt Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadlme lor next-day classtfteds is 3 p.m. All classlfteds must be 
prepatd. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. tncluding spaces
Classifieds 

MISSING  1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000  OTHE COPY SHOP in LaFortuneO  THE CLUB 23  "DEEDRE MILAN"  
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 EXPERT TYPING  Whoever took my walkman from the SMC dining hall could you please return it. It was a gift, please just turn it into dining hall lost and found and no questions will be asked  loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy Bumper/Hitch. $5,800 or B/0. 271-8016. Plane tx to Denver perfect for Spring Break! leave Sat 3/10 return  Copies'Printing'Binding'Fax Resumes'Laminating Transparencies & MORE Grand Opening Feb. 23 -at Grace Hall The COFFEEHOUSE  Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO'  HAPPY 22ND B-DAY! LOVE-SUSAN V HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY DEIRDRE MILON! WISHING YOU A DAY FILLED WITH LOTS OF BROWNIES AND C.C.  
$3/PG 291·3829  WANTED  Sat 3/17 GOOD PRICE call #4825  We're just going to drink cokes ...  ADOPTION  COOKIES!!!  
Attention Class of 93' The FCC is sponsoring aT-shirt design contest Present entries to your FCC dorm rep. Prize: $10.00 in quarters and one free T-shirt. Deadline: Next Wed,21. ?? Call Joe Wilson X1802 DanWatter X1061  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. ATIENTION -EARN MONEY READING BOOKS I $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262.  TICKETS elp! I need 2 student tickets and oneGA for the Georgia Tech game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs for sale .272-6306  Come on baby do the locomotion ... I guess we had a little too much rhythm and a lot of soul.. We'll never forget what we didn't remember to begin with. Leave a message: "Henceforth..." Rename the flower. Preventive maintenance for a hangover:  Physician and wife, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded  More Mock Trial Top Ten Quotes: 11 . If I had both the 1 0 and the 11 cards... 10. Stop ceasing my brain. 9. Bob-about that stain on your pants-No hard feelings. 8. No hard fingers. 7. Domino's won't bring us pizza, but Mary delivers. 6. Chew it and screw it. 5. Let's win it for the Firther. 4. Those plaid sheets are yelling,  
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers. Reports. Resumes, Etc.  ND SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Will pay good money for Football, Basketball photos call Tom@ 2185  WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN LANDOVER, MD OVER BREAK WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$  sugar shots. Crunch. Creme shots, too. Gravy shots?Where are my keys. Oh, Tom has my keys. Does Tom have my keys? A Notre Dame moment:  message. (219) 625-4205.  "yes, yes, yes!" 3. It looks better on my chest than on my head. 2. Bob, score us some sausage. 1. Let's go romp in the virgin snow.  
277-MAIL YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office.  Apple Computer is now accepting applications for the campus position of student representative. Responsibilities include marketing and some technical. Prefer sophomores and juniors. Please send resume to:  PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 BILLY JOEL tix! 2 for April 24 in Chicago call now x1322 I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT  2/16/90 SUNSHINE: I hope you're not feeling quite as cloudy now & MARY, in all seriousness, that $3 has turned you into one FABULOUS BABEl!!  READ EXODUS 22:18 READ EXODUS 22:18 READ EXODUS 22:18 Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!!! Love your busy bees'  to my not-so-small boyfriend... I apologize and I just want everyone to know that TIMOTHY ALLEN ROGERS has the biggest d-­on campus I  
SPRING BREAD IN THE SUN Guaranteed Lowest Prices! ·cancun--$424 South Padre--$169 'Bahamas--$469  Apple Computer 6133 N. River Road Rosemont, IL 60018 Attn: Bill Duff Ride Needed to Ohio St. this  502-582-1920. NEED GEORGIA TECH TIX, ST. & GA. CALL JOANIE x3851 I need two tix for the Missouri  Hey Julie B. you were a great waitress atJPW! (admirer) J.G.  I need a ride to Daytona for Spring Break Colin x4057 I need 3 tickets for the Missouri game on March 3  TOP 10 FROM 1.!, of M ROADTRIP 10. I'll eith~: graduate from U of M or gfot,'ntt by a car first. !',. What a concept 8. Guys are schmucks  
'(Airfare included) Call Ted x3276  weekend 2/23-2/25. Will pay $$$. Markx-1416  game. 5398.  Call Tim Thompson at 277­ Call me at 283-2785  7. We want to go to the diag 6. Nothing like a small intimate  
For a hot tip on where  ATIENTION!  ATIENTIONI  To the Greipp Party of 1, Hey Patti, Mom and Dad say  SPRING BREAK  gathering among friends. 5. It must be love because it's  
to find a good time Calf 647-0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events Hotline LOST/FOUND  Anyone interested in playing AD&D please contact Bob at x1797 RIDE NEEded. TO nEW jERSEy.4a GirL&hERbroTher#2845502 For Rent  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY NEED 3 MISSOURI TIX CALL FRANK (283) -4334 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 4 Missouri GA's. Call Robin x 4011.  thanks for the tour of SMC. -That "other" party Rico­What's up bro? Who messed up my Nikes. Don't forget to clean ---you know what I mean, I just can't say it here.  DAYTONA $139 rm. only $229 w. ';rans. high quality accomma,dations call Todd 1-800-26:5-1799 CLUE #2  certainly not looks 4. What part of NO don't you understand? 3. I'm officially cutting you off. Here, have another drink. 2. Law quad: This place reminds me of Oxford-l've seen the movie 1. I can't buy you Coors. They support the neo-nazi party  
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOSTI An antique ring with a green square stone; lost on Feb. 14 possibly in south dining hall. Great sentimental value. REWARD! Call Deb at x3829 LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET WI NO ID AND NY LICENSE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA X1268. IT'S 3 WEEKS TO MY 21ST 11!!111111  HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 BDRM, WID. CLOSE TO ND. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­6010. FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 SUMMER SUBLEASE TURTLE CREEK APTS.  GEORGIA TECH I GEORGIA TECH! I need tickets like you wouldn't believe. Please sell me yours before my rich alum brother boils my skin in oil. TOP DOLLAR!!! John x3584 Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x 233-6582  Mike X Do you wants lots of money? Sell me your Georgia Tech tickets and I'll give you enough to surround yourself with booze, babes and bashes. TOP DOLLAR !II John x3584 Allah says Tim Rogers must die. Or at least be covered in ice cream and thrown to the women of N.D. And you thought Sahlman Rushdie had it bad.  She has a quick. wit and a friendly, intr' ,guing smile... Listen bab•1·... Listen to· your heart. ······---·--------------------------­PAT M~ ~HUGH-Is this the party with \lo.'hom I'm speaking to? You're the best little brother I've evet · had! Have a great birthday and t1on't get bit by a doberman. Love and Toe-Kisses! Jane  Rico--there's a message for you up top. --Mike x ~~ COUNSELORS· BOYS CAMP. W.MASS.IG!RLS CAMP.I.IAINE TOP SALARY, RMIBDII..AUNDRY. rRAVEl ALLOWANCE. MUST LOVE ~IDS AND HAVE SKILLIN ONE OF THE FOllOWING ACTIVITIES: AF:CHERY. ARTS&CRAFTS, BASEBALL. BASKETBALL.BICYCLU~G. CHEERLEADING, DANCE, DRAMA.  
..  FOUND: piece of 1ewelry in Holiday Inn on At. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify Found: Men's ring outside South Dining Hall. Call David  272-7449 2 and 4 bedrm. furnished houses; 90-91 year. Great cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653  I need some Georgia Tech tickets for my little brothers ..Piease call Kelly at '4985 Need 4 Mizzou Tix-GAorSTU $$$$$Call 277-7260$$$$$$  To whomever sent me an Anon­ymous Valentine: reveal your­self. Marshall A. hiag ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF  DESF'ARATELY SEEKING FRESt!lMAN FORMAL DATE-­PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 277-91'..>09 VIC W•:mna-be: if you're a real man .identify yourself! 4766  DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL. GOLF GUITAR, GYMNASTICS. HOCKEY, HORSEBACK. KARATE LACRLSSE, NATURE, NURSES. PHOTCXiRo\PHY. PIANO, RADIO. ROCKETRY. ROPES. SALBOAROING SAILING. !iCUBA. SOCCER. TENNIS. TRACK, W.S 1.. WATERSKI, WEIGHTS, V.OOO STOP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW ON  
X. 3233  FOR SALE  I need GA TECH tix #1511  PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A  4-.tQ WANTS YOU !II!  FRilAY, FEBRUARY 23RD FROM 11 :OOAM-fi:OOPM IN L.AFOIHUNE  
Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red pinstripe. If you don't want me to go to a 2nd interview in my boxers, call Tom at 234-9728. Reward  GUITAR FOR SALEIIIIII! GIBSON Epiphone Strat Copy Like New -Black on White $150.00 or b/o  Mom & Dad are coming & they want tix to Missouri & G Tech Call Jeff X3555 OH BOY I REALLY NEED  CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY AD. 300 W., KOKOMO, IN 46901. RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has  Guys i11 110, O.K,C,.K. I know its been a while. So here are some thoughts. Folgia give!; good headjobs (freshcuts). The ·,nsane brothers (Whitey and CootKie) are spreading their havoc.  STUDENT UNION, DOOLEY ROOM (•37 FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDFIOOM  
A PAIR OF WOMEN'S GLOVES Found on the walkway near North Dining hall on Satmday,  call Michael at x2259 NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call ND Dept. of Comm. & Theatre 239-7054  TICKETS FOR THE MISSOURI GAME--CALL X1128. PERSONALS HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE &  rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. CLUB 23  Ned1 and Freedy are gearing up to beat some a--. Me ~on,T.A. and Folg are starting our own All-Stink team. God, plt)ase help us.  APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems,  
February 17, in the morning. They. look like they belong to somebody's mother from  1982 Volkswagen Rabbit 4 door, air cond; $600 Call Chris @1690  HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL &  Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE  ...13nd then we WUUUUUB ... . CHARITY BALL MEETING  basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new  
JPW. If you can describe them, they are yours. Call x3311.  TYPEWRITER-$75; SHORT­WAVE RADI0-$60; 287-2834  CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­8445.  Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday  T'hurs. 7pm Sorln Am LaFortune. A1:1 those interested in the 1990 CC'r.nmittee are welcome.  construction, good neighborhood ,dishwashei  
<'-----------------------------------­ 
 

1 

Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
The Observer page 11 
Syracuse rebounds from NO upset to trounce BC 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­Derrick Coleman scored 21 points and Syracuse used an 11-1 run at the start of the second half and held Boston College to just one field goal for 7 1/2 minutes, as the Orangemen ended their two-game losing streak with a 105­69 Big East victory over the Eagles on Tuesday. 
The Orangemen (19-5 and 9­
4) ended up outscoring Boston College 23-5 during the 7 1/2­minute span as they kept a half-game behind Georgetown and a game behind front-run­ning Connecticut in the Big East race. 
Billy Owens added 17 points and LeRon Ellis 16 for Syracuse while Boston College (7-16 and 1-12) was led by freshman David Hinton's 18 points. 
Syracuse squeezed out a 43­39 halftime lead after failing to shake the Eagles in the first half minutes. 
Guard Michael Hopkins started an eight-point run with a pair of free throws and when Tony Scott sank a 3-pointer at the 5:37 mark it gave the Orangemen a 34-24lead. 
But Boston College answered with a 15-6 spurt sparked by David Hinton's six points and pulled to within 40-39, with 
1:12 to remaining before Scott hit another 3-pointer to give Syracuse its four point cushion. 
Ellis scored six of his first-half high 13 points during Boston College's run. 
Syracuse shot out with an 11­1 run to start the second and had built a 56-42 lead when Hinton scored Boston College's first field goal of the half at the 
16:01 mark. It was 12:31 when Bobby Moran hit a jumper for the Eagle's next basket. By that time Syracuse had built a 66-46 lead. 
It was the first time since Dec. 19, a span of 15 games, that Syracuse broke the 100­point mark. 
Memphis State 82,
Louisville 68 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) Ernest Smith scored 18 points Tuesday night to lead Memphis State to an easy 82-68 Metro Conference victory over 16th­ranked Louisville. 
Memphis State (16-9, 7 -5) used a balanced attack to over­come the Cardinals. The Tigers led by as many as 18 points with 23 seconds left as Louisville (20-6, 9-2) went cold from the field and Memphis State guard Elliot Perry, who finished with 15, connected on eight consecutive free throws in the final1:32. 

The score was tied 38-38 at the 19:08 mark of the second half when Memphis State went on an 11-1 run culminating with a free throw by Smith with 
15:40 remaining. Louisville got no closer than seven after that. 
Memphis State led 36-34 after a fast-paced first half. The Tigers scored the first six points of the game, but Louisville answered with a seven-point run. 
Memphis State, on a 15­footer by reserve Russell Young, regained the lead 14-8 at the 12:25 mark. 
Louisville's led again when Everick Sullivan connected on a 3-pointer from the wing for a 30-26 advantage with 4:10 left in the half. 
But Memphis State used the outside shooting of reserve Jewell Burton and Cheyenne Gibson for the halftime lead. 
Young added 12 points for Memphis State and Cheyenne Gibson had 10. 
Felton Spencer led Louisville with 19 points, Keith Williams had 18 and Sullivan finished with 16, including five 3-point baskets. 
Only forstudentAmericanExpress® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six 
.weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with your own personalized discount card, valid throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS ATELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 

speed the process.) 
Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world ofgreat experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges~ 
1-800-942-AMEX 

NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be avatlable between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
-
.. 
Wednesday, February 21, 1990
page 12 The Observer 

Irish Volleyball easily rolls over mismatched Toledo 
Monday night's match for the the fourth of his rocket kills. Nemelceff added 7 as­game regardless." 14-4 men's volleyball team sists and senior Andy Sullivan chipped in with 5 digs. The main goal for the Irish in this match was get against the Toledo Rockets In game two Toledo enjoyed its only lead of the tuned up for tonight's game against the No. 9 na­didn't promise to be one of night at 1-0 before a Martin kill gave the Irish a side­tionally ranked team from Indiana-Purdue at Fort their more difficult of the year out. Mike Flecker tied the game with a kill and came Wayne. The match has special meaning for Coach and everyone knew it. Mike Kamradt back with another blast for a 4-1 lead. Toledo closed 
Anderson as Notre Dame will go up against the team "They're not very strong," to 4-3, but the Irish quickly extended their lead to 7-he played for in college and his old mentor. commented coach Bill Anderson aub Comer 3. With the score 7-4, Flecker began serving and be­"I think we played well tonight and we'll be ready before the match. fore he was done, the ledger stood at 14-4. for Wednesday," said Anderson. That quote is up for under­"Flecker is playing a whole lot better," observed The Ski Teams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's statement of the week. Anyone Anderson. "He's concentrating on his serve and his raced against teams from Michigan, Michigan St., interested in playing for the all around game is a lot better." Grand Valley St., Western Michigan and a host of Rockets can dial 1-800 Sophomore Greg Scheckenbach helped the streak 
other teams in northern Michigan on February 10-11. 
GETACLU. Still, the Irish didn't with two kills and a block. Toledo staved off the Irish The women's team finished fourth behind Michigan mess around and took less than an hour to bomb the momentarily and made it 14-7 before falling again. St., Michigan and Ferris St. and qualified for the re­Rockets 15-4, 15-7, 15-4. In game three, Anderson emptied his bench as he in­gionals in Welsh Village, Minnesota. 
"We just wanted to play well," Anderson said. "We serted Pat Burke, Dan Kavanaugh, Tim Maloney, Paul "It's (a regional berth) happened before, but not worked on passing the ball and running the ofTense." DeMieri, Greg Barrett and Leo Casas. This group was really regularly," said dub president Mike Sheehan. "I Pedro Nemelceff showed what kind of match it in no mood to take it easy on the sorry Rockets as was really surprised at it." 
would be early in the first game when instead of set­they blew out to 14-0 lead. Alex Torrez came in for For the Irish women Mary Beth Skenzel had the ting to the outside he caught the opponents off guard Casas and chalked up three serves. DeMieri tripled leading time followed by Jo Jo Gehl and Mary Schultz. with a quiek spike. The Rockets had trouble handling that by getting nine in a row later in the match. The finish for this team was especially brilliant when 
the serves of the Irish and very rarely were able to get Toledo saved themselves from the ultimate embar­considering that Trish Steger and another top skier the ball set to one of their outside hitters for an at­rassment of a shutout and made it close at 14-2. were absent from the competition. tempted spike. The only thing that stemmed the tide Notre Dame then called a timeout to the wonderment "The competition was great at this meet," explained for the Hockets in this game was an injury to setter of the crowd. Sheehan. "When you have this good of competition Scott DaVf~nport. Tom Martin gave the Irish an 11-4 ''I'm the type of coach who thinks you really have to you must be very consistent." lead with a quick dump and followed it up with a solo concentrate on your game against teams not of your The Saint Mary's women were beat out for the re­block. Mike Sheedy gave Notre Dame a 13-4lead with talent level," said Anderson. "You have to play your gional berth by Notre Dame. 
Lakers beat Spurs in OT 115-114 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Byron Kevin McHale was held to four rebound effort by New Jersey's Scott's 3-point basket at the points on 2-for-11 shooting. Charles Shackleford and the buzzer Tuesday night gave the Phoenix, trailing 20-8 six Milwaukee Bucks sent the Nets Los Angeles Lakers a 115-114 minutes into the game and 32-to their 14th straight loss overtime victory over the San 22 after the first quarter, used Tuesday night, 110-102. Antonio Spurs. runs of 9-2 and 10-4 for a 41-The losing streak is the 
San Antonio led 114-112 on 40 lead on Majerle's 15-foot longest in the NBA this season Willie Anderson's jumper with jumper 3:54 before halftime. and left the Nets two defeats 
37.4 seconds left. After the Johnson had 10 of his 18 short the franchise record of teams traded missed shots. the first-half points in the final 16 set in 1978. !.akers took pos8ession with 3:22 of the second period on Shackleford's 26 rebounds less than eight seconds left. three layups and two baseline tied the NBA season high in a 
Orlando Woolridge took a jumpers for a 55-49 halftime regulation game this season, pass from Magic Johnson and lead. set Feb. 15 by Houston's Otis drovn inside, but he passed Back-to-hack jumpers by Thorpe. James Donaldson of back to Scott for the wide-open Dennis Johnson brought the Dallas had 27 rebounds in a 3-pointer. Celtics back to 57-54 with triple-overtime game in 
Scott finished with 15 points, 10:10 remaining in the third December. while James Worthy scored 27 quarter. Shackleford had 21 of his 23 and Johnson 19 for the Lakers. But consecutive baseline points in the first half. Purvis 
The Spurs were led by Terry jumpers by Chambers started Short added 20 points for New 
Cummings, who scored 30 the 22-8 run for an 83-64 bulge Jersey. points, and David Hobinson, with 4:21 left. The Nets scored five points in who registered his second ca­Hornacek's 3-point goal the first minute of the third reer triple-double with 23 made it 88-66 with 3:37 re­quarter to build a seven-point points, 16 rebounds and 10 maining before the Suns took a lead, but managed only nine blocks. 95-75 lead into the fourth points the remainder of the pe­
Worthy forced the extra pe­quarter. They led 100-79 with riod, when it shot 15 percent (3 riod when he hit a 15-footer 7:55 to play. of 19). with 2.2 seconds left. The 21-point loss was The Bucks, meanwhile, got 12 Hobinson's jumper with a sec­Boston's most lopsided against points from Pierce in the quar­
ond to play was blocked by Phoenix since 134-113 here on ter and outscored the Nets 22­Mychal Thompson. March 21, 1979. 14 to take a 77-71 lead. Brad 
The loss was just the fourth Lohaus had two dunks and a for the Spurs in 26 home Bucks 110, Nets 102 steal to spark a 10-2 run that games. Los Angeles upped its finished the quarter. road record to 15-9. MILWAUKEE (AP) -Ricky Hobertson and Humphries 
Worthy had 15 first-half Pierce scored 29 points to off­added 18 points each for the points as the !.akers led 59-52 ~t a caree~-high 23-point, 26-Bucks. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in the Great Hall of O'Shag. Thn fee is $5. 
Cycling Club will meet at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. 
Men's volleyball team will host ninth-ranked Indiana Purdue Fort Wayne at 7:30p.m. tonight in the Joyce ACC pit. Admission is free. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for elarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 

M 

A ® ® 
T ® 
H 

DRINK 
1 
0 
1 


A public service message from The Observer 
at halftime. 
Heserve guard Michael Cooper suffered a neck strain latA in the second quarter. lie fell diving for a ball going out of bounds and was taken to a hospital for precautionary X­rays. 
Suns 120, Celtics 99 
PHOENIX (AP) -Kevin Johnson scored 31 points and Tom Chambers had 12 of his 25 during a 26-10 third-period run as the Phoenix Suns won their 14th consecutive home game by beating the Boston Celtics 120­99 Tuesday night. 
Jeff Hornacek and Dan Majerle added 18 points apiece for the Suns, who now have won 19 of their last 22 games overall and are two shy of tying the club record for consecutive homecourt victories set in 1977-78. 
Boston lost its third in a row on the road as Larry Bird scored 19 points, but only 11 after the first quarter on 3-for­13 shooting. 
Heggie Lewis finished with 17 points for the Celtics while Robert Parish had only two of his 14 in the second half and 
Thesday, Feb. 20, 1990 7:30Jm 
Min Pmpose Room (CSC) 
Lecture: 
"Lithuania: Is 


Independence Possible?" 

IN 
Mr. VIctor Nak.a5, 
Wasllington. DC. Branch Manager of the 

EASTERN EUROPE
Ulhuanlan Information Center 
Wednesday, Feb. 21, 1990 
7:00pn 

F.E.E.D. M.E.
Momgomecy The3er, 
LaFortune Student Center 

Fabulous Eastern European Dinher: Meal and Entertainment-Dinner and Polka Dance! 
Panel Discussion: 

Saturday, February 24, 1990
"Creating a Democracy in Hungary" 

6:30pm North Dining Hall, North Wing 
Mr. Mlk/0$ Simon, Graduate Student Mr. G•bor Fo"al, Graduate Student 

• Reservations Required: Call 239 -7668 • 
Ms. Kar.lln Fabian, Graduate Student Prof. Theodore B. lvanus, Professor Emeritus, Govt. and lnt'l Studies 


1ln.miday, Feb. 22, 1990 
7:00pm 
M(Qgomery Thelier, 
LaFortune Student Center 
Panel Discussion: "Solidarity and the Future of 
Poland: After the Euphoria" 
Prot. Andrzoj Wallick/, 
O'Neil Chairman. History 
Mr. Msmk Szopsky, Graduate Student 
Prot. Jacsk K. Furclyna, 
Professor, Physics 
Prot. Donold T. Critchlow. 
Associate Professor, History 
TBA 
Panel Discussion/Follow Up: 
"What do the issues in Eastern Europe mean to students as members of the ND community, 
and as citizens of a nation?" 
Observer, Scholastic, 
Common Sense. Dialogue reporters who covered the events (Yes, undergradsl) 


Wednesday, February 21, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Women's tennis goes 1-2 on troublesome Texas trip 
PE and BP to square off in IH final ND women win 78-48 By RICH KURZ going into the game, he k_new the ball insid~, according to paced by star J•uniors 
Sports Writer what they had to do to wm. Coach Jeff Hmlert. 
"We wanted to stop their "They weren't big enough And then there were two. fast break and box out," to play us man-to-man, and Special to The Observer against conference foes. The After the first round of Flannery said, crediting a we scored that way [getting Irish close the season March 9­
playoffs in women's interhall spurt at the end of the first the ball inside]." Heilert ex-Karen Robinson scored 18 10 at Dayton for the MCC basketball, the champi­quarter with being the dif-plained. points and Sara Liebscher Tournament, then await a pos­onship game is set with the ference in an otherwise close Heilert sees the champi-added 17 to lead the Notre sible bid from either the NCAA team from Pasquerilla East game. onship game progressing Dame women's basketball team or NIT tournaments. ready to square off against In the other semi-final differently than the game past Saint Louis 78-48 in a Breen-Phillips. PE got by game, BP beat traditional with Lewis. Midwest Collegiate Conference Saint Louis, the worst team in Siegfried 38-30 in the semi­power Lewis to advance to "It will be more equal in road game Tuesday night. the conference, shot an icy 29.8 finals Monday night, while the championship game. BP terms of size. The game will The victory extended the Irish percent from the field for the BP pulled off a mild upset, opened strong, scoring a be more guard-oriented," winning streak to seven games game. Notre Dame completed a dominating Lewis 36-24 in couple of early hoops to take Heilert predicted. and improved their record to season sweep of the Billikens,the other semi-final game. a quick advantage. The game for number-one 18-6. Notre Dame also sits having defeated Saint Louis 84­
Both victors credit team­"We were definitely fired will tip-off tomorrow night atop the MCC standings with a 50 Feb. 1 at the Joyce ACC. work as being the key to up," said BP captain at8:00inthePitoftheJACC. perfect 13-0 mark and has won their win. PE Coach Ray Christine Churchill. The championship of the B 18 straight conference games Notre Dame next faces Xavier Flannery played all nine of Breen-Phillips started out league will take place be-dating to last season. Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the his players, rotating them to in a 3-2 zone that took away forehand, at 7:00, also in the Notre Dame is the defending Joyce ACC. The Xavier matchupkeep them fresh. Although Lewis's outside shooting, Pit. That game will feature MCC Tournament champion. is the first of a two-gameFlannery said that they and then used their distinct the Siegfried B team taking The Irish have three remaining homestand, which also includes didn't know what to expect height advantage to force on the graduate team, regular-season games, all a March 1 contest with Dayton. 
Lack of progress in baseball talks may endanger season 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team had a rough last weekend in the inhospitable Lone Star State, battling through a cancelled plane flight and harsh weather conditions, only to drop two out of three matches and lower their record to 1-3. 
The Irish lost 9-0 to the University of Texas on Friday, after arriving in Texas only hours before the match due to a flight cancellation in Chicago. 
The defeat was followed by an 8-1 loss to neighboring Texas A&M on a bitter and breezy 
outdoor court. The weekend ended on a high note, however, with a strong 5-0 defeat of Texas San Antonio despite rainy weather which caused the match to be called during the flifth game. 
"I was a little disappointed with the weekend," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "Texas and Texas A&M are both good teams, but we could have played a little better than we did. I don't know what it was, maybe the rough trip, but we just didn't compete as well as we could have." 
Junior Kim Pacella was the bright spot for the Irish last weekend, scoring the only point for Notre Dame against Texas A&M, and contributing tough play in the Texas loss. 
"She was really into it against Texas," said Louderback. "She's a fighter: she doesn't like to lose and she hangs in there. She played tough all weekend." 
Despite their 1-3 record, Louderback is pleased with the 

play of his young team. The top eight players for the Irish in­clude only one junior and one senior, and Louderback expects his team to improve as they gain experience. 
However, Louderback realizes 
the importance of chalking up some wins on the Irish score­board, and hopes to do so this weekend, when the Irish take on Illinois, Kansas State, Drake and Miami of Ohio at home. 
"We lost a close match to Northwestern, and they'll probably end up second in the region. Those are the matches that we've got to win -we have to play better against ranked teams. 
"We have a good chance of winning all four [this weekend. They're big matches for us ­Illinois and Miami are the teams to beat because they're in our region. We've played such good schools so far, we want to make sure we win these." 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball players will break off contract talks if no agreement is reached by Thursday, thus en­dangering the start of the regu­lar season. 
There was no progress Tuesday on the key issue of salary arbitration eligibility and talks will continue on 
SWEATER SPECIAL 

OFF 

Bring in any ,3 sweaters or more and get them cleaned for HALF OFF the regular price. 

Limited time only. 
2 Convenient Locations 
Near Campus 
207 Dixieway South (Roseland) 
272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. 
Greenwood Shopping Center 
272i9461 
Wednesday, the seventh day of owners' spring-training lock­out. 
Chuck O'Connor, chief nego­tiator for the owners, said management would make a new proposal on Wednesday in an attempt to break the stalemate. The union wants players with two ears in the ma·or lea ues to be eligible for arbitration, as they were before the 1985 agreement. Owners want the threshold to remain at three years. 
"Let's see if we can deal with this problem in other ways," O'Connor said. "We are looking for ways." 
Management has proposed minimums of $75,000 for first­year players, $125,000 for players with 1 to 2 years of service and $200,000 for play­ers with 2 to 3 years of service. O'Connor said owners were looking at methods other than arbitration that would funnel money to younger players. 
"There are things you could do with minimum salary, rosters and waiver rules," O'Connor said. "That's what we're looking at." 

V 
Bruno's 
~ lJ~ I Nonh Eddy ({.inodwlll Plua I ~ SolHh Bend. lm.hanu 
~tN--H1~) 

r14·~ss.oo-f:Re-eoELiveRvl 
116" $8.00 with coupon I I 18" $1 0.00 "'limit one item per pizza I 
LARGE PARTIES (minimum 12 people)
·----------------------­
*All you can eat for $4.00 *Free pop and specials *Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 
289-4625 
-prices rtain to deliveries only­
9:30 PM Thursday at 

Donald Fehr, executive direc­tor of the players association, said talks would break after Thursday because the union staff needs to travel and update players on the situation. 
"They're scattered over the country and it's going to take time," Fehr said. "I don't know whether it's 10 days, two weeks, 12 days, 16 days. 
"This is not new," he said later. "They've known for 10 or 14 days that we would have to do this." 
Fehr, who said talks probably would not resume until March 5 at the earliest, said the Thursday deadline was set be­cause it was the last possible date an agreement could be reached that would get players to spring training by Feb. 28, the mandatory reporting date._ 
"At that point it's apparent you're not going to have any­body there next Wednesday," Fehr said. 
Both sides say at least three weeks of spring training are needed for players to get in shape. Fehr said some players need as much as five days to get to camp and that "the clubs say it's going to take five days to get the equipment there." 
With those constrictions, there would not be much time for an agreement if talks take a prolonged recess. When O'Connor was asked if a break would endanger a start of the season on April 2, he said: "We may be. We may be." 
Fehr and O'Connor said a break would be needed anyway because it was unnecessary to meet only to disagree over arbi­tration. 
"There isn't much sense in meeting with the other side if there's no purpose to that," O'Connor said. 
At a side meeting Tuesday, negotiators discussed schedul­ing, meal money and termina­tion pay and came closer to agreement on those issues. 
However, arbitration eligibil­ity has become the issue that's holding up and agreement. 
"It doesn't mean that's the only issue left," O'Connor said, "but that's the centerpiece." 


The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1990 
Ashe finds no racial bias Prop 42 

HOWARD 
continued from page 16 
coach Digger Phelps said. "With three seconds to go, there's still time to tip it and that's why Howard was able to tip it. It's never over till it's over. It's just part of the game." 
Said DePaul coach Joey Meyer, "We didn't diagram that one because we had no timeouts left. In the end there's something to be said for not coaching too much." 
Howard, named this week to the All-District V GTE All­America team, kept the Blue Demons from an insurmount­able deficit in the first half. With the Irish keying on high­scoring David Booth (17 .5 points per game), Howard saw the chance to take over inside. 
He scored 16 of DePaul's 24 
first-half points, including 7 in 
an 11-4 run that brought the 
Blue Demons within 10 to 34­
24 at halftime. 
"He got some open shots," Notre Dame forward LaPhonso Ellis said. "When I did go after the block, he was able to lift the ball up a little higher." 
Howard's play in the first half opened the way for his teammates in the second stanza. but his ten points came at key times. 
He silenced a five-point Irish run with 16:16 left and then capped a seven-point Blue Demon streak to cut the margin to 50-45. His rebound basket with 3:30 remaining made it a one-point game at 55-54 before his game-winner at the buzzer. 
Howard hopes this game will lead to more consistent per­formances in the remaining five contests. DePaul will need to be impressive in those games, in­cluding the regular-season fi­nale with Notre Dame, to gain attention from the tourney se­lection committee. 
Like the Blue Demons, Howard has had an up-and­down year. He scored in double figures six of the first seven games, but scored eight, six and five points in a three-game 
stretch with North Carolina, Dayton and Marquette. Howard averages 13.7 points per game and 8.1 rebounds. 
"We needed this win on the road," Howard said. "I think we did a good job in getting it. I just hope that now we can be more consistent." 

WICHITA, Kan. (AP) ­Former top-ranked black pro­fessional tennis player Arthur Ashe says the NCAA's Proposition 42 requirements aren't culturaily biased and ac­tually set acceptable academic standards for athletes too low. 
"Either you can read and write, walk and chew gum. or you can't," he said during ap­pearances Tuesday at Wichita State University as part of Black History Month. 
Cultural bias doesn't have anything to do with a black athlete falling short when the NCAA sets the Scholastic Aptitude Test minimum score requirement at 700 and the overall grade point average re­quirement at 2.0, levels that a third-rate student can achieve, Ashe said. 
LOSS 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame's non-starters combined for three points and three turnovers during the game. 
"When you go to the bench, you want to get positives, and we didn't get them," Phelps said. "That got DePaul going, and it was that way for the next 30 minutes." 

DePaul still could not close the gap too much in the first half, mainly because the Blue Demons were not getting any kind of outside shooting. The Demons shot just 9-of-37 (24%) in the first half, including a perfect 0-for-8 from three­point range. 
"Notre Dame was playing a good zone, and we're not a good team against zones," Meyer said. "For a while, we couldn't put in anything." 
The Irish led 34-24 at half­time, and Howard had kept DePaul in the game almost sin­glehandedly with his 16 points. 
In the second half, Howard started to get a little help. David Booth and Melvon Foster began the half with baskets to cut the Irish lead to 34-28, be­fore Keith Robinson connected with 17:28 left, scoring Notre Dame's first basket since the Ellery shot. 
Notre Dame built the lead to 

41-30,  then  two  baskets  by  
Kevin  Holland  and  one  by  
Howard made it 41-36.  

The Irish continued to answer every challenge, however, and Fredrick's three-pointer with 
10:31 left put the Irish up 50­

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 

Following a heart attack in 1979. Ashe retired from his tennis career. IIH is a Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion. He was ranked No. 1 in the world in 1968 and again in 1975. 
Ashe said blacks make up 6.5 percent of the student bodies at the approximately 290 NCAA Division I schools, but total 58 percent of the basketball play­ers and 38 percent of the foot­ball players there. 
Only one in five of the 10.000 black athletes at Division I sehools will graduate, whieh, at $1 0,000 a year for five-year scholarships, means the col­leges are spending $250,000 in scholarship money for each graduate, Ashe said. 
"Hey, I wasn't born yester­day," he said. "You really don't 
38 and made it appear as though Notre Dame was back in control. 
Notre Dame did not score another basket for almost five minutes of playing time. 
"I think it was a lapse of con­centration on our part," said Bennett. "I think we should have run more transition in the second half because that's what got us in the lead." 
DePaul set up the last-minute heroics by going on a 16-5 spurt after Fredrick's three­pointer. The Demons relied on their inside game to get back into it, as forward Kevin Holland and centers Howard and James Hamby combined to score 11 of those 16 points. 
"We're a strong team, and we'll recover from this," Bennett said. "It's just that they're a major independent like us, they came into our home court and we let them win when we could have shut them out of the NCAAs." 
IRISH ITEMS: Fredrick scored his 1.000th career point midway through the first half... The Irish were decked out in black Reebok shoes for the con­test... Irish co-captain Jamere Jackson turned 21 Tuesday... The Irish shot exactly 50 per­cent for the game (21-of-42) ... Saturday's game with Georgia Tech is sold out, as is the March 3 encounter with top-care about us as students. You care about us as athletes to fill your stadiums and arenas." 
Aslw said the emphasis on academics needs to start in high school. 
If a student gets an SAT score below a 700, then. Ashe says, a high school counselor or coach needs to say: "You're going to stop running footballs or ~ho.1!ting hoops and study awhile. 
At the prep level, Ashe said all televising of basketball and football games should be banned except for all-star con­tests. lie said television is just "creating a lot of little Notre Dames" and passing the prob­lem down through the system. 
"It's purely a matter of whether you put a1~ademir.s bP­fore athleties," he said. 
ranked Missouri. Bleacher snats n~main for the March 5 home finale against Kentucky. 
DEPAUL (6:l) 
llolland :l-6 I<l 7, Booth 3-H 3-:l 9, Howard 1 1-20 4-5 2(,, Foster 2-9 2-2 6, Davis 4-14 :l­4 11. Murphy 1-H 0-0 2. Sownll 0-2 0-0 0. Hamby 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 25-69 t:l-17 63. 
NOTRE DAME (62) 
Ellis 4-7 l-3 9, Williams 2-6 0-0 4. Hobinson 3-7 4-4 I 0, Fredrick 6-11 4-7 1H. BPnrwtt 5-8 8-8 18. TowPr 0-0 0-0 0, Singleton 0-0 1-2 1, Sweet 0-1 0-0 0, Ellery 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 21-42 18-24 62. llalftime-Notn~ Dame 34, DePaul 24. 3-point goals­DePaul 0-8 (Booth 0-1. Davis 0­
3. Murphy 0-4), Notre Danw 2­2 (Fredrick 2-2). Fouled out­Davis. Hebounds-DePaul 32 (Ilolland 8), Notre Dame :l9 (Robinson 14). Assists-DePaul 10 (Murphy 4), Notre Dame 9 (Bennett 4). Total fouls­
DePaul  20, Notre  Dame 18.  
Technicals-Murp hy.  A­ 
10.803.  

We're Fighting For Your Life. 
&•aAmerican Heart .,.,Association 


is now accepting applications for the 
1990-91 GENERAL MANAGER 
Pick up applications in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
All majors are welcome to apply. 
DEADLINE: 
Monday, February 26, 1990 • by 5:00pm Questions? Call Molly at 239-8040 
ADWORKS Wednesday, February 21, 1990 The Observer page 15 

LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
4:20 p.m. "Musical Instruments Studies by Holography and Modal Analysis," Professor Uve Hanson, Indiana State University -Terre Haute. Room 118 Nieuwland Science. Sponsored by Dept. of Physics. 
4:30 p.m. "Living in the Rule of St. Benedict in the 1990s," Father Martin Boler, Mt. Saviour Monastery. Room 304 Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Humanities studies. 
MENUS 

Top Round of Beef Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel French Bread Sausage Pizza 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 


56 Story handed down 57 Hard, unctuous preparation 60 Pop star from Nigeria 61 Amusement for children 65 Juan or Domingo 66 Harsh to the taste 67 Ruhr city 68 Explosive 69 Ayes 70 Tennis unit 
DOWN 
1 Residue 
20mit 
3 Nurse's­4 Confuse 5 CPA's interest 6 Presidential 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
It was very late, and Raymond, fighting insomnia, went for a midnight snack. Unfortunately, 


AND FINALLY, I 'LD LIKE TO 
IN TRODOC£ YoJ TO OUR 
BRIG.HTEST R.£SEARCH£R­DR DtRKINS. J'UST LIIS T WEEK l)SINiiJ R NEW T~ACKIN&l 
TECHNiQUE, HE D/SCoV'ERE D A 
MEAN5 FOii' US 1() LOOK 
DIRECTI..Y INfO L.ON I ANDERSON'S llfDRoOM 
WINDOW 
""" 
ACROSS 1-rule (generally) 4"-ofGod ...":Herbert 9 Command to a dog 12 Carpentry, for one 15 Old Portuguese coin 16 Pub order 17 Children's game 19 Ballerina Slavenska 20 Draftsman's tool 21 Driver's annoyance 23 Doctrine 
25 Construction piece 26 Emulate what Dixie did in 1861 29 Aged: Abbr. 31 Blunder 32 Traffic sign 34 S. Pacific sea 38 Take hold of 41 Brazilian coffee 42 Jack 43 Rhythm 44 A neighbor of Pol. 46 Receive 47 Disturbed 49 Late bloomers 52 Fiber for textiles 54 Lays by 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 Representative 55 They turn litmus red 
56 Hold out 58 Throw lightly 59 Fencer's 
weapon 62 Miniver or Grundy 
63 Quiche Lorraine, e.g. 64 Suffix with exist 
JAY HOSLER 
nickname 7 Commendation 
or honor 8 Retract 9 S. Pacific island 
group 10 Latin name for Troy 
11 Rip apart 
13 Festina­(make haste slowly) 
14 Fastened a sneaker 

18 Padres and Pirates 22Wyo.'s­Range 24 Followers of a Chinese religion 26 Dissenting body 27 A wife of AI Jolson 28 Pack tightly 30 Collection of poems 
33 Unfeigned 
35 Craze 
36 State 
37"-Dolt," 1928 song 
39 Froth 
40 Fop 
45 Black bird 
48 Beguile 
50 Durable fabric 
51 Autocrats 
52 Kind of fortification 
he never saw the duck blind. 

~ ~ 
~~u~~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ J.EJ Executive Council Positions for 1990-91 ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Applications Boa...d ••anager ~ 
~ fi •' .tr~~ Now available at the zl or. Director ofProgramming Secretary's Desk ~ ~ ~ Director ofRelations 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ 
I .,.... Director ofMarketing Due February 22, 1990 I 
~ +'0~ c t ll ~ 
~ ~0~.<-~ on ro er ~ 
~ ~<. ~ 
~ ~ 
~~..a 


Freshman Coleman sparks men's tennis successes 
Irish hope last weekend's performance witl earn them a spot in national collegiate polls 
Special to The Observer 
Skip Holtz, wide receiver coach in 1989 on Earle Bruee's Colorado State foot­ball coaching staff, has been named wide receiver coach at the University of Notre Dame. 
The announcement was made today by Irish head coach Lou Holtz, who hap­pens to be Skip's father. 
Skip's presence will enable vetflran Irish assistant Pete Cordelli to work exclusively with the Notre Dame quar­terbacks beginning this spring. That figures to be particularly important to the Irish in 1990-due to the graduation of all-star sig­nal-caller Tony Hice and the relative inexperience of freshmen Rick Mirer and Jake Kelchner, the only two 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
"Knock. Knock." 
"Who's there?" 
"The Notre Dame men's ten­
nis team and we want in on the collegiate tennis' Top 25." 
Although this is a fictitious exchange, I won't dare to callit a joke. The illusory concept may become a concrete fact in the near future. Of course, the Irish have not verbally ex­pressed their desire to enter the Top 25. Rather, they have let their actions speak for them­selves. On Sunday afternoon, the Notre Dame men's tennis team hit the door of the Top 25 with a resounding blow by knocking off regional foe Ball State 5-4 at the Eck Pavilion. That win will make it hard for the pollsters to exclude the Irish from the next poll and 

Sports 
Wednesday, February 21, 1990 

ns stun ND with last second shot 
Desperation last shot keys 63-62 Blue Demon victory 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 

When you live by the sword, you die by the sword. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team learned that painful lesson Tuesday night, breaking the hearts of the Joyce ACC crowd of 10,803 and corning dangerously close to bursting the NCAA Tournament bubble in which they reside. 
Just three days after upset­ting Syracuse on an Elmer Bennett buzzer-beater, the Irish got knifed in the back by DePaul's Stephen Howard, who tipped in a Chuckie Murphy air ball with no time on the clock to defeat the Irish 63-62 in the first battle this season between the nation's two major inde­pendents. 
"That's all part of the college game," said Irish coach Digger Phelps, whose team blew an 18­point lead. "It's never over until it's over. It's just part of the game." 
Howard's tip-in carne after Bennett hit both ends of a one­and-one with five seconds left to give the Irish a 62-61 advan­tage. DePaul's leading scorer David Booth, who was held to nine points Tuesday, had con­verted a three-point play with 12 seconds remaining to give 
DePaul's Howard sparks upset 
quarterbacks currently on 
By GREG GUFFEY 
the Notre Dame roster. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Skip joined the Colorado State staff in January, 1989 Sophomore center Stephenfollowing two seasons as a Howard kept DePaul from be­

graduate assistant at 

ing blown out of the Joyce ACC 
Florida State where he 

in the first half of its gamehelped coach the receivers 
Tuesday night with Notre under head coach Bobby 
Dame. 
Bowden. The Seminoles fin­

Then he kept the Blue 
ished 11-1 each of his years 

Demons' NCAA Tournament 
there, winning the Fiesta hopes alive in the second half. 
Bowl following following the Howard tipped in an errant 1987 season. 

Chuckie Murphy shot at the Holtz played one year of buzzer to lift DePaul (15-12)football at Notre Dame in over the Irish (14-9) by a 63-62 1986, the first year his fa­
count before 10,803 stunned ther was head coach of 
fans. 
Notre Dame. He joined Notre For Howard, that was the Dame as a walk-on flanker, culmination of an outstandingworking at that position as evening that resulted in him be­well as quarterback during ing named the game's Wendell spring drills in 1986. 

Smith Most Valuable Player.
He earned a monogram in Howard hit 11-of-20 field goals1986, playing in all 11 and 4-of-5 free throws for 26 

games. 

points and pulled down seven 
improved Notre Dame's record to a surprising 10-1, including a perfect 8-0 at home. 
One reason that the Irish are knocking down the door of the Top 25 is a spirited and tal­ented freshman-Chuck Coleman. Coleman, a native of Lake Wylie, South Carolina, has raced down enough tennis balls and hit enough critical shots to earn the No. 2 singles spot on a most talented Irish squad. Sporting a 8-1 singles record, Coleman also fills one-half of Notre Dame's No. 2 doubles team. 
"Chuck has been a tremen­dous asset to our team," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "He has provided consistency for us and stepped up and has played higher than we perceived he would have. He moves as well 

Chuck Coleman 

as anyone in tennis and that is not just college tennis. Chuck is going to a mean a lot to Notre Dame tennis for a long time and has the potential to be an All-American." 
All this from a true freshman who only had the intention of getting a chance to play any­where in the lineup. 
«I didn't know what to expect 
the Blue Demons their first lead 
since the game's opening bas­
ket. 

"I couldn't be prouder of a 
basketball team," said DePaul 
coach Joey Meyer, whose team 
would have been virtually elimi­
nated from NCAA consideration 
with a loss Tuesday. "We carne 
in here with everyone thinking 
we didn't have a chance after 
Notre Dame's big win over 
Syracuse. But we proved we 
ain't dead yet." 

Notre Dame (14-9) did a good job of stabbing itself sev­eral times before the game's dramatic conclusion. The Irish led by 18 in the first half and held a 12-point advantage with 
10:30 left in the game, but a pair of scoring droughts al­lowed DePaul to claw back into the game. 
"When you're up by 17 with the ball, you shouldn't have to pull it out at the buzzer," said Irish guard and eo-captain Joe Fredrick, whose 18 points had him sharing team-high scoring honors with Bennett. 
Keith Robinson added 10 points for the Irish, and he also pulled down a team-high 14 re­bounds. LaPhonso Ellis had 14 rebounds and nine points. Howard scored a game-high 26 points and was joined in double figures by DePaul teammate 

when I carne to Notre Dame," said Coleman. "I just wanted to come in and play. I didn't set any goals as far as wins go. I just wanted to improve." 
Coleman's contribution to the 1990 men's squad is somewhat fitting considering the youth of Bayliss's squad. Six singles spots are filled by four fresh­man. In addition, two-thirds of the doubles teams are com­prised ·or frosh. 
Coleman's success hinges on his aggressive, even brash ap­proach to the game and his cat­like quickness. Some would say Coleman is a toned-down Andre Agassi. While Coleman does not possess the arrogance of the Las Vegas native, he shares both a powerful forehand that explodes off the racket and ag­gressive mental attitude to­wards the game. 
Stephan Howard 
rebounds. 

But it was the tip-in that will stand out in this game -remi­niscent of the 1983 NCAA Championship when North Carolina State's Lorenzo Charles tipped in a Dereck Whittenburg shot to give the Wolfpack the national title. 
After Elmer Bennett hit two free throws to put Notre Dame ahead 62-61, the Blue Demons pushed the ball upcourt and Murphy had a jumper at the top of the key with three seconds left. But Murphy's shot fell short and Howard was all alone under the basket to put it in. 
"I knew it was short," Howard said. "I had beaten ev­erybody down the court. It just fell into my hands and I caught it. 
"I didn't know if there was enough time left. I just looked and saw everybody jumping around." 
The Irish did have one player back in Keith Robinson, but he moved out to challenge Murphy's shot. He forced Murphy to hurry, but that also left Howard alone under the basket. 
"He (Robinson) left Howard to check the shot," Notre Dame 
see HOWARD I page 14 
"Chuck has big weapons off both wings and is fast as any­one around," exudes Bayliss. "He posses the ability to hit the 
critical shot at any time which is very difficult to coach. Chuck is an attacking baseliner who is very solid and looks for every opportunity to attack the net." 
Why has Coleman bnen so successful in the infantile stages of his collegiate tennis career? 
"I think it is because I liave had someone good to practice against day after day," said Coleman. "Also, Coach Bayliss has been great, not to mention Brian Kalbas and Billy Mountford who have been su­perb. During the matches, I just try to run down all the balls and make my opponent error on the point. I try to wear them down and frustrate them." 
Terry Davis, who had 11. 
The Irish committed a sea­son-high 25 turnovers in the contest, with 15 of them corning in the second half. 
"Turnovers killed us," said Phelps. "You can't have a big lead like that. then start turn­ing the ball over and missing shots." 
Notre Dame raced to a 22-6 lead midway through the first half with a 13-0 run. Ellis and Monty Williams each seorPd four points during that stn~tch. 
DePaul ( 15-12) followed with five straight points of its own, but the Irish came back to score the next sewm points and gain a 29-11 lead, their biggest of the game. 
"For a while there, it was get­ting ridiculous with NotrP Dame pulling ahead," said DePaul coach Joey Meyer. "Hut then I think Notre Dame rP­laxed and we kept fighting and playing defense." 
Mwr grabbing its big lead, the Irish started making substi­tutions and stoppPd scoring points. K1win Ellery's jumper with 7:59 left in the half put Notre Dame ahead 27-11, but the Irish did not scorP another basket for more than 10 min­utes. 
see LOSS/ page 14 








