
VOL. XXIII NO. 77 MONDAY , JANUARY 29, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Soviet lawyer urges democratic reform 
By SANDRA WIEGAND News Writer 
Reformation of the single party system in the Soviet Union is more likely to be ac­complished empirically than through legislation, said Leonid Volkov at a press conference Friday. 
• Volkov's lecture I page 3 
Volkov is a Soviet lawyer and a member of an association called Democratic Perestroika which he plans to represent as a candidate in the election of the Soviet Congress of People's Deputies in March. He is presently doing a lecture tour of universities in the United States. 
Democratic Perestroika was one of the first entities to have 

Financial Aid Awareness Week gets undeiWay today 
By JANICE O'LEARY Assistant News Editor 
1:"£/itor's note: This is the first in a five-part series. 
In an e!Tort to encourage students to get their Financial Aid Forms (FAF's) in on time, Notre Dame's Financial Aid of­lice has declared this week Fi­nancial Aid Awareness Week. 

Tlw deadline for students to turn in their FAF's is Feb. 28. Signs have been posted in the dorms as a reminder. 
The awareness week will culminate on Feb. 4, "College Goal Sunday." This unique event will be celebrated throughout Indiana in various other cities. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Financial Aid staffs will be present at the South Bend Public Library from 2 to 5 p.m. to help students and members of the community learn to fill out the FAF. 
As part of Financial Aid Awareness Week, the Notre Dame Financial Aid office would like to inform students about the n:J.ain types of aid available, both University-re­lated and through the federal government. 
Three types of federal aid ex­ist: loans, grants and work study. 
The majority of aid given to Notre Dame students, as well as all college students in the U.S., is in the form of loans. The 3 loans students may re­ceive are the Perkins Loan, lhe Stafford loan, also. known as the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL), and the Parental Loan for Undergraduate Students/ Supplementary Loan for Stu­dents (PLUS/SLS). 
Two federal grants are avail­able: the Supplemental Educa­tional Opportunity Grant (SEOG) and the Pell grant. 
College Work Study is the 

Crash could prove to be fault of air traffic controllers 
COVE NECK, N.Y. (AP)-The crew of Avianca Flight 52 told high-altitude air traffic con­trollers the plane was low on fuel and needed a priority land­ing before it crashed, but that information wasn't relayed to local controllers, officials· said Sunday. 
• Jet travel safe? I page 7 
The Boeing 707 crashed on Long Island Thursday night, killing 73 people and injuring 85. 
The pilot of the Colombian jetliner told controllers at New York Center, who handle high­altitude traffic, that he was low on fuel 50 minutes before the plane crashed, said Lee Dickin­son, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. 
When the New York Center controllers turned over control of the flight to local controllers at John F. Kennedy Interna­tional Airport, they apparently failed to mention the plane was low on fuel, Dickinson said. 
The conversation between the crew and New York Center came after the aircraft had been in a holding pattern for 46 minutes, Dickinson said. At that point, controllers asked the pilot if the Boeing could safely land at Boston's Logan Airport. The pilot said he lacked fuel to get to Logan, said Dickinson. 
Shortly afterward, control of the aircraft was transferred to local controllers -Terminal Radar Approach Control, or 
see CRASH I page 7 open political discussion for the 
public, Volkov said. The asso­
ciation was formed in 1987 mainly by young scientific peo­ple; Volkov joined the same year. 
The group has been gradually accepted by the public, he said, as well as by the authorities, who criticized it, but also qui­etly applied some of its ideas. 
In his campaign for the Soviet Congress of People's Deputies, Volkov plans to go beyond the realm of Western campaigns, such as public gatherings and debates, and include efforts at reform right from the begin­ning. 
"It's necessary to do some­thing; not only talk," he said. Volkov said that Democratic Perestroika is not an official 
see VOLKOV I page 4 


ceive $21 million in federal aid, Financial Aid Breakdown which does not include ROTC programs. 
ROTC is a large source of as­sistance for many colleges, in­cluding Notre Dame. The Uni­versity's students receive a total of $7 million in aid through ROTC, according to the Finan­cial Aid office. Notre Dame's large ROTC program is made up of all branches: Army, Navy­Marine Corps and Air Force. 
Some of the substantial ROTC aid is being cut, due to the Gramm-Rudman bill. It created the Federal Deficit Reduction Act of the early 80s, which calls for the government to reduce the deficit by a certain amount each year through cutbacks. 
Part of cutting back includes decreases in defense spending. This results in a cutback in money given to ROTC pro­grams. 
"Some ROTC scholarship third program offered by the programs have been capped" as government. It is funded par­a result of Gramm-Rudman, tially by the institution and par­according to Joseph Russo, di­tially by the government. rector of financial aid. 
At Notre Dame students re-The has not been cutting back on aid to students, but rather has placed restric­tions and qualifications on those who app~y for financial aid where none had existed in the late 70s, said Russo. 
This change occurred because many people who did not need aid were receiving it. 
"Those who needed money were paying for those who didn't," Russo said. 
Beginning with Reagan in 1981, people had to prove they needed money. This was based on income, but in later years has come to be based on many other factors including family size and the number of children in college. 

During the 80s, Russo said, there has been an ever-increas­ing trend toward borrowing. This is due in part to the fact that grant programs did not increase. It wasn't that the fed­eral government wasn't sup­porting grant programs. it "just didn't keep up. People were forced into borrowing." 
see AID I page 6 

Colombian Jet Crashes on Lon 

Plane·s route 
Arrived 2:02 p.m. Departed 5:30p.m. 
BOGOTA
• 
AP 


Monday, January 29, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thinking at the gaming table is a big gamble 
Las Vegas Is widely --------­
recognized as the City That Never Sleeps. But after a recent gambling fiasco there, I found a more suitable name: the Paradiso of Idiots. 
Vegas Is the only "' pl~ce where a person Kevin Reisch 
w1th the brain activity . . . of a turnip can strike Asst. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor it rich overnight. I knew something was terribly wrong with this city when I first felt the agony of defeat. While I was playing blackjack, a man joined the table and made his gambling wizardry apparent by asking the dealer, "So, tho maximum In blackjack Is 21, right?" This man further Impressed me with his techniques, such as adding up the total on his fingers following each deal. If it was less than 21, he invariably shouted, "Hit me!" As the game wore on, I saw that my original $20 investment had dwindled away while his profits kept Increasing. That night, my friends and I estimated our collective damage at $130 and decided to play it safe by watching TV. On Late Night, Omar Sharif, a high-stakes gambler, told David Letterman that he collected his biggest winnings during a state of drunken­ness. Sharif may be a gambling guru. The next day, we made our sports bets and camped out at the TV lounges in various casinos. Being avid sports fans, we were mesmerized by the possibility of view­ing more thatl 20 live competitions at the same time, ranging from dog races to kick boxing. By coincidence, the Notre Dame basketball team faced the mighty Creighton Blue Jay squad, a perennial powerhouse in the tough Missouri Valley Conference. We received an inside tip that Creighton's three-point specialist had injured his knee. We also knew that Irish star LaPhonso Ellis had returned to the starting lineup. With this information, we called the favored Irish "a sure bet" to cover the three-point spread. We soon learned that there is no such thing as a sure bet. Amazed, we watched the Blue Jays dismantle the Irish in double overtime. Exhausted of money and pride, my friend Charles subscribed to the Omar Sharif approach to gambling. Aided by 12 compli­mentary alcoholic beverages and a credit card, Charles reached the necessary state of inebriation before taking to the gambling tables. Thinking that successful gamblers needed some intelligence and analysis, I foolishly went the sober route and ran my deficit to $80. Hours later, I found Charles leaning over a craps table, chanting, "Come on, lucky lady!" to a woman rolling the dice. Despite his disorientation, Charles had compiled $212. It just goes to show that smart guys finish last and bumbling idiots hit the jackpot in the twisted, illogical world of gambling. 

f;.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
ProductionNews 
Sports
Joe Zadrozny Kelley Tuthill Steve MegargeeAlison Cocks Monica Yant Frank Pastor 
Wendy Cunningham 
Accent 
Business Viewpoint 
Colleen Cromn 
Liz Panzica Liz Havel Maureen Gallagher Alison Cocks Kim Skiles Dave Brunner 
Lauren Deluca Kathy Welsh 
Graphics Systems 
Laura Stanton Amalia Mieir 
Bradford Boehm Dan Towers 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publ1shed Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 29. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
40 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure 
{! )

®© ~~§ ~ IT] EZJ ~ 
'---' 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet 

OF INTEREST 
The Music Commission will have a meeting at 
5:30 p.m. today in the SUB Oflke for old and nnw nwm­bnrs. Pizza and soft drinks will be served. 
A Mass of St. Thomas will bn cdebrated in Alumni llall chapel at 5 p.m. today to commemorate the fnast of St. Thomas Aquinas. Father John Jenkins, a nnw adjunl"l professor of philosophy, will bn the main celebrant and homilist. !\ Grngorian chant will be providPd by tlw litur­gical choir. 
Sexual exploitation while dating will be dis­cussed toni~-,rht in a workshop entitled. "Wiwn dons a datP g1~t out of hand? !\ :workshop on Sexual Exploitation,'" The 6::W to S p.m. workshop in tlw FostPr Boorri of l.aFortu1w is ~<ponsored by University Counseling CentPrin the Foster Boom of LaFortu1w. 
The Hispanic American Organization will mPPt tonightat 7::Hl p.m. in Siegfried llall and elect a secretary­treasurPr. !\ dintwr for old and nPw nwrnbnrs will lw f'ol­lowPd by business and a spPaker. 
Auditions for actresses li1r Cavanaugh llall's Pro­duction of "Up tlw Down Staircase" will lw tonight and tomorrow night in 127 Nieuwland SciPncP II all. 7-9 p.m. No PXpPrieiH'P needPd. 
The Northern Ireland Awareness Group will nwet tonight at 7 p.m. in Boom 110, Law School, to view "Off Our Knees," tlw story of BPrnadettP Dt'vlin and twPnty years of ThP Troubles in Nortlwrn lrr'land. 
Candidates for Student Body President and Vicn President an~ required to attend a mandatory mePt­ing 7 p.m. tonight at Tlwodorn's. Elnetion ruins and pro­cPdures will be diseussPd and petitions will bn distributed. Campaigning runs from Fnb. 5-Feb.11. and dection day is FPb. 12 
WoRLD 
East Germany's Communist-led government and opposition forces agreed late Sunday to move the nation's first free elections up to March 18 and to govern by coalition until then. The decisions were part of a "common responsibility to strengthen democracy in East 
Germany," Communist Premier Hans Modrow said. 
NATIONAL 

Deposed Panamanian leader Manunl Noringa was transferrPd Sunday night from the federal courthouse to a fpderal prison south of Miami, the wardnn said. Noringa, who faces fed­eral drug c.hatgns, has benn held in an under­ground facility at the courthouse in downtown Miami sinee being brought to the United States on Jan. 4 following the U.S. invasion of his coun­try. 
Race was a factor, but not the leading cause of dashes between thousands of black col­lege students and Virginia Beach police Labor Day weekend, a commission reported. The com­mission blamed poor leadership by city oflicials, student leaders, and others for two days of vio­lence and looting that municipal leaders said cost taxpayers more than $1 million, according to· newspaper accounts. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume m shares 
198.19 Million 
{7 0.40 S&P Composite 325.80 {7 0.28 Dow Jones Industrials 2559.23 {>-1.81 
Precious Metals Gold {! $4.10 to $420.30 I oz. 
Silver{! 1.3¢ to $5.26 I oz. 
NYSE Index 180.21 
Source: AP 
Former President Jimmy Carter said sunday that the Sandinista government had reversed its position and will allow U.S. congressmen to observe the February elections. Carter said he also met with the leaders of the U.S.-backed Contra rebels and asked them to stop all at­tacks so the electoral process could be carried out smoothly. He said the Contra leaders agreed to his re­
quest. 

The South Bend Community School Corpora­tion /\dull Education is looking for voluntPPrs to tutor adult basic l:dUI:ation and /\dull l·:nglish as a second lan­guagP classes. Thesp classroom hours may count as part of 100 pre-student tpaching hours of liPid expPriPn~·p rl'­quired for Saint Mary's l·:ducation majors and_ llllllo~·s. Need voluntePrs mornings, aftPnwon and PVPIIIngs. <.all Gail SiiVPr 2:{2-5744 or 2S2-417:t 
Off-Campus Students who still IH'Pd campus ph_c~IH' books can pirk tlwm up at tlw StudPnt (;oVPrliiiH'nt otiii'P on thn second lloor of LaForturw StudPnt CPnl.f'l". 
The Social Concerns Commission of Studl'nl Covnrnmf'nt kirks off VoluntPPr \VPf'k tonighl with an ~ 
p.m. IPrturP/discussion in I17 llaggar. Tlw lf'l'turl'. h~ I>Pibart llogart of' tlw National Wildlii'P h•dPration, ,·on­enrns l:arth Day and othl'r Pnvironnwntal issul's. 
Washington-Appalachia information night is tonight at tlw esc. TllPSI' an• spring Sl'mPSll'r brl'ak Sl'lll­inars, mw tlwology ITI'dit. Washington sPminar informa­tion at S p.m .. Appalachia at 7 p.m. Application availahll' at esc. 
The Center for Basic Learning Skills ni'Pds vol­unti'Prs to lwlp tutor illitPI"atP adults in South BI'IHI on Monday through Thursday mornings from 1)30 to I I ::W. /\nyonP intPrPstPd is wnlconw to altPIHI an organizatio11al mePting tonight at 7 p.m. at tlw CPntPr for Social Con­rNns. or rail Mall CIPary at 277-')..J.~:"i. 
Journal of the College of Arts and I.PtlPrs is (1('­I'Ppting humanitiPs submissions until h•bruary I(,, l'll'as1• submit Pssavs. fil'tion. and book rPviPws to :C)(, O'Shaughrwss.y (l·:nglish of'licl'). 
ALMANAC 
On January 29: 

e In 1820: Britain's King GP­orge Ill dind insane at Windsor Castlt\ PIHiing a rnign that had seen both the /\nwrican and Frem~h revolutions. 
e In 1850: llnnry Clay intro­duced in the Snnatn a eompro­misn bill on slavery whieh in­eludnd the admission of Cali­fornia into the Union as a free state.­
e In 1980: It was rnvnalnd that six U.S. diplomats in Iran who managnd to avoid bPing caught in the takoover of their embassy had lled the country with the help of Canada. 
Yesterday's high: 39 Yesterday's low: 20 National high: 83 (Alice and Presidio, Texas) National low: -14 (Gunnison, CO) 
Forecast: Clearing in the afternoon today, with a high in the upper 30s. Increasing clouds tonight, lows in the mid 20s. Mostly cloudy and windy with 40 percent chance of snow showers Tuesday, with highs in the mid to upper 30s during the morning. Temperatures falling to around 30 by late Tues­day afternoon. 


~~ ­
.. 
Monday, January 29, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Volkov advocates multi-party opposition in U.S.S.R. 
ByHANNAHWU realistie party-oriented goals which was ealled dissident op­News Writer and economie alternative pro­position," said Volkov. "It was grams," stated Volkov. represented by very brave peo­
Leonid Volkov, a Soviet "The most important problem ple, who protested against the lawyer and political analyst for of this alternativ.e development repressive regimes and all the the Soviet Academy of Sciences, now is not eonfronting powers' ideological stupidities." Many advocates the creation of a new and bureaueraey, though they of these people were sent to regularly functioning multi­remain as obstaeles," said jails and concentration eamps. 
party opposition and parlia­Volkov. "Unfortunately these kinds mentary system in the Soviet· "The major problem is how to of opposition were not able to Union. attraet masses of people to the create new dimensions of Soviet 
In a lecture titled "Forming a new dimension of demoeratie system," said Volkov. Neverthe­Political Opposition in the system." less, they were very important. U.S.S.R." Volkov said this kind People in the Soviet Union are The dissidents prepared new of regularly functioning opposi­somehow disappointed with spiritual dimensions of the tion is not based on ideological Gorbaehev's polieies in light of demoeratie movements, whieh principles or total immunity of destabilization of economie life, took plaee after the beginning the people, but on creation of the very unusual political devel­of Gorbachev's Perestroika. meehanism of principles, opment, and national destabi­In the first year of Pere­changing and adjusting to the lization in the Soviet Union, stroika, there appeared a new real needs of the people. said Volkov. Three kinds of kind of opposition, whieh was a 
"It is not simply opposition of strategies have developed as kind of intelleetual establish­protest and criticism," said follows: ment, said Volkov. It eonsisted Volkov, "but opposition eapable • Free market eeonomy. many journalists, writers, and of suggesting to the people dif­• Centralization of one econ­scientists, who expressed their ferent alternatives of empiri­omy. opinions through some papers cally meaning polieies, to give • Preparation of market and magazines. the people room for choiees of eeonomy. New developments took plaee different kinds of policies, and "Opposition has always been rapidly and unexpeetedly, said room to express different in­in existenee in the Soviet Union, Volkov. Several dubs eame into terests and understanding of even during Stalin time," said being, one of whieh is the their interests." Volkov, explaining the history Demoeratie Perestroika, whieh 
In his leeture. Volkov elabo­of opposition development in Volkov is a member; another is rated on a new dimension of the Soviet Union. "There were the Popular Fronts. opposition aetivities in the So­many opposition parties under Demoeratie Perestroika sug­viet Union, which he related to the Stalin regime. Many people gested open diseussions of the soeial demoeratic opposi­were tortured and killed, but problems of Soviet develop­tion. "It is the only kind of op­opposition existed." ments and open eritieism of the position in the Soviet Union at After Stalin, "a peculiar kind Soviet system, aecording to the moment which has more of opposition was ereated. Volkov. It provided the people 
"("\("\£ ~~r)~ ....!'-""}. 
...... ''­
t t..l\\""" ~,\
)' " 1' \\ 
~ \.\\S' ~ t ..,c::t~\ J 
t. Ul~ I 
"":). ~., 
DR. TAVEL'S NEW STORE"·~~""' LEIS YOU SEE TWICE AS WELL 
Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical is celebrating our newest 1 hour store in Greenwood. It has everything you'd expect from Dr. Tavel: eye exams. thousands of fashionable frames, all types of contact lenses.and best of all, quality eyewear at an affordable price. And for a limited time. we're making a very special offer that gives you two pairs of glasses for one low price, so you can see twice as well. 



Ir----------------------,
,• GRAND OPENING I : SPECIAL : 
I 2 PAIR OF 1

$9998 1
I GLASSES FOR
1 This offer includes clear single visio~ plasti? lenses and a Premi~m.frame. Bifocals, I tr~ocals. and line-free lenses are slightly hgher. Some lens restncllons apply. BothI pairs must be same Rx. Valid at all Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical locations through I 
Febuary 3. 1990. No other discounts, previous orders, or sale items apply. .J
L 

CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILYOR SJ998 2 PAIRS $9998 
EXTENDED WEAR OF TINTED 
$39.98 applies to Softmate clear. daily, or extended wear lenses. $99.98 applies to Softmate BorB &L ·o· tinted lenses. in 2 different colors. Eye exam required for contacts. Some power restrictions apply. 

1111 E. Ireland Road 
291-40)) All Insurance plans welcome . GM Preferred Vision ProvidersM program Metropolitan Ford • Chrysler • Warner Geor • Medicaid 
ffi~[E]~ 

with new alternatives of reeon­struetion and it was not sup­pressed and disturbed by the KGB agents, said Volkov. 
Popular Fronts were more massive and populistie-ori­ented, whieh began in Baltie re­publies and spread to other re­gions of the Soviet Union. "It is difficult to believe that is now possible to gather 500 people, representatives of loeal Popular Fronts, in the huge newly-built palace in the center of Moseow." 
The next period of develop­ment of demoeracy in the Soviet Union began with the eleetions to the Supreme Soviet Congress of People's Deputy. "The legis­lation was in no sense demo­cratie," stated Volkov, "Nevertheless, it gave room for participation of loeal popula­tion." 
People in the Soviet Union, partieularly in the western part, appeared to be very en­thusiastic about the possibili­ties of making ehoiees by vot­ing. And they demonstrated very rational attitudes, aecord­ing to Volkov. 
Volkov called for intelleetual and political support from the West. He stated the importanee of raising money in Western eountries. But he said that the money would be given in waste, beeause of a lack of ehannels for rational disposition. 
Volkov's lecture was spon­sored by the University's Pro­gram of Soviet and East Europe Studies, the Department of Government and International Studies, the Department of His­tory, and the Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures. 
APPhoto
It's a girl 

After their leader Benazir Bhutto gave birth to a baby girl Thurs­day, members of Pakistan's ruling People's Party celebrated the arrival outside the Karachi hospital. 
HalfOfThisYear's Medical School ClassGotThere With OurHelp. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you start practicing right now: 
.&Take Kaplan OrTakeYourGlances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------~--~­
page 4 The Observer Monday, January 29, 1990 
World Bank figures show Third World owes $1.3 trillion 
WASHINGTON (APl-People in countries that have gone deeply into debt enjoy higher living standards than the aver­age Third World country, ac­cording to World Bank figures. 
The bank calculates that Third World countries owe a total of $1.3 trillion. Some are in trouble with their creditors and have tried austerity mea­sures to grow out of their diffi­culties. But they still seem to be in constant crisis. 
In many ways, however, debt seems to have little effect on their progress. 
Mexico, the largest Third World debtor after Brazil, has 

Volkov 
continued from page 1 
party, but stressed that formal recognition is not important initially, but free multi-party elections are, and legislation to back up the reform would probably follow. 
Presently, he said, it is possi­ble to create a new Soviet party, but no one knows how. There is no formal procedure, so one must go beyond legisla­tion and take the task into his own hands. 

As democratic reform pro­gn~sses in the Soviet Union. he said. the tendency must move from democratic clubs to "a new kind of party-like opposi­tion." 
As an example of the power of mnpirical reform, Volkov cited the recent popularity of independent. oppositional newspapers. The papers, often radieal, have not been legalized, but arn "tolerated" in the Soviet Union. 
The goal of J>pmocratic Pere­stroika is to implement a bal­anend parliamentary dmnocracy in the Soviet Union. with a multi-party system and regular change of leaders. Volkov said. 
Ilis visits to the United States constitute an attempt to max­imize contacts with the public lwre, whieh he ftwls is more im­portant than contact with the govnrnnwnt alone. 
lie hopes to implement a pro­gram by which Soviets ean come to thn United States to 

OFFICE OF 
0MPUS MINISTRY 
UmverSI'\1 of Norre Dome NOire Oomf IN 46556 

completed the biggest and most difficult arrangement up to now for reducing the burden of the $104 billion it owns. This was done under the strategy proposed last year by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady. 
!{eduction in the actual debt is expected to be small because there also will be new lending to Mexico. More important is a reduction expected in the $7 billion that has been flowing out of the country every year, mostly as interest and repay­ment of principal. 
Compared with many Third World countries, Mexico is fairly well off, the World Bank 
learn about Western en­
trepreneurship in an effort to 
make the Soviet Union "more 
modern. more normal.... more 
Westernalized." 
Volkov said he docs not "idealize" Western industries, industrial relations, or indus­trial culture, but "adequately understands the differ­ences... between this kind and that in the Soviet Union." 
lie said that it would be use­ful for Soviets to receive expPri­ence in the United States and then apply it to the Soviet Union. 
Some changPs in Soviet indus­try that Volkov would like to see include the abolition of inef­fective industry such as metal­lurgy. machine tooling. and the defense industry. The cost and quality of the products of such industries would make fixing them irrational. he said. 
Areas that Valkov would like to see developed include road construction. housing and in­formation dispersion. A con­nection between production and consumption is necessary, he 
said, "in order to produce what is really IHlCPssary, and to con­sume what is really produced and not produced on paper or in such poor quality standards that it is not useful at all." 
lie said that ties with foreign suppliers would be important, as it would be difficult to get support internally. 
Implementation of a taxation system which encourages peo­ple to save and to spend money, but discourages spending on 
(CBS) 

Sponsored by The Office of Campus Ministry 
All students invited to attend Ecumenical Bible Study 
Every Tuesday -7:00p.m. Office of Campus Ministry Conference Room -Badin Hall 
One Hour Sessions Bring your own Bible 

Directed by: Rev. Al D'Alonzo, CSC 
For additional information call: 239-5955 239-5242 
FIRST MEETING TUESDAY, JANUARY 30 
7:00p.m. 

found. In 1988 the average Mexican earned the equivalent of $1,820, compared with $1,970 for what the bank calls the average middle-income country -a group that in­cludes such diverse countries as Malaysia and Poland. 
But income isn't everything. More than nine out of 10 Mexi­cans over the age of 15 can read, compared with fewer than eight in the average coun­try. Only 47 Mexican babies out of every 1 ,000 die in their first year, against an average 55 in the Third World. The average Mexican has 3,132 calories 
available a day, compared with 
2,846 in similar countries. 
Mexicans now have a car for every 16 people. compared with one for every 59 people 25 years to 30 years ago. Over half of Mexican teen-agers arc in secondary school -three times as many as there were a quar­ter-century ago, evPn taking the growth of population into ac­count. There is a doctor for ev­ery 1,242 people, while in the 1960s there was only one for every 2,078. 
The bank gives approximate dates for some of the material in the 1989 edition of its "Social Indicators of Develop­ment." distributed to reporters this week. That is because some countries eompiln their figurns more quickly than otlwrs, so that the latest statistics avail­abln come from different years, depending on the country. 
"The debtor countries startt~d by being better off," explainml John O'Connor. head of the bank division that deals with thn figures. 
Countries with largn debts tend to bn larger countrit~s. with more population and rn­sources. They had the assets that encouraged lenders to give them credit in the first place. 

luxury items would be neces­sary, Volkov said, to maintain a balance economically ancl avoid 
"great social inequalities." 
Volkov said that although his 
association's platform has been 
called socialistic, he prefers the 
term "democratic socialism." 
lie believes that the majority of th.,. Soviet popuiation is democratic. except some right­wing nationalists and a group called the United Pront of Toil­ers. which consists mainly of young people who have Marxist beliefs. 
Commenting on the recent ef­forts by Azerbaijan and other provinces to gain independence, Volkov admitted that non-ag­gressive, less radical proceed­ings than that of Azerbaijan are preferable. Terroristic ac­tivities follow, he said, when a movement is implemented this way. 
He said that the Azerbaijan movement is "against Pere­stroika." but stressed that the province dons have the right to become independent. 


Candy is dandy, 
Roses are neat, But Observer ads Are really sweet. 
Let your sweetheart see your love expressed through Observer Valentine classifieds or display ads. 
Classifieds will be accepted from 1Oam to 3pm every weekday. The Observer is located in room 314 LaFortune or call239-7471 for further information. 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, January 29, 1990 
Director of ND publications receives CASE award 
Special to The Observer He is responsible for all printed matter emanating from Carl Magel, director of publi­the University, with the excep­cations and graphic services at tion of student and athletic de­the University of Notre Dame, partment material ·and Notre has received the distinguished Dame Press books. Magel holds service award of district five of an undergraduate and master's the Council for the Advance­degree from Notre Dame and ment and Support of Education taught English in the South 
(CASE). Bend Community School system Magel came to Notre Dame in before coming to the University1973 as managing editor of The honor recognizes several Notre Dame Magazine and took leadership positions he has held on additional duties in the Uni­in the Great Lakes District of versity's printing and publica­CASE, a national professionaltions area, culminating in his organization for persons in­
appointment in July 1977 to volved in institutional advance­head a new department of ment for colleges and universi­printing and publications. ties. 
,.....------------------------------------'V' 
~  ~  
~ ~  ~~l[ErRH~~lrED  ~~  ~ ~  
~  f~lM~?  ~  
~  v  
~ ~  DHRi[ECl~~G?  ~ ~  

The Observer 

,j· Art for art's sake The Observer/Kevin Weise 
The annual faculty art and design exhibition opened Sunday with a public reception at the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibition will run until March 18_ 
~ ~Cl~~G? ~ New party emerges in Poland 
~ v WARSAW, Poland (AP) -erything, will not do," said unity at all costs. Two or three 
Communists created a new so­Tadeusz Fiszbach. "We will be parties could emerge," but even ~ ~ cial democratic party Sunday unable to explain to society they should cooperate, he said. ~ v from the wreckage of their old how we were transformed into Outside the hall where the 
~ Here's your chance! ~ 
~ ~ 
party, officially burying the in­social democrats out of Com­1,600 delegates met Sunday,~ Produce your dorm's entry ~ stitution that ruled Poland for munists overnight. .. . I am about 50 protesters chanted ~ in the ~ more than four decades. against artificial unity." "Communists must go!" as po­
The new party, the Social The 41-year-old Communist lice looked on. Late Saturday, ~ ~ Democracy of the Republic of 
~ ~ 
~ v Party ruled Poland before los­more than 500 stone-and bot­
Poland, was approved over­ing parliamentary elections and tle-throwing demonstrators ~ MORRISSEY ~ whelmingly on the second day ceding power to a Solidarity-led clashed with helmeted riot po­~ v of a fractious three-day government in August. lice for several hours. 
congress. There were bitter debates at Fiszbach, whose bid to lead a~ FILM FESTIVAL ~ Delegates also adopted new the congress between orthodox new party is backed by Walesa, 
~ ~ 
bylaws and a new program for Communists reluctant to break heads a party faction of about ~ ~ the party, intended to increase completely with the past and 
~ v 
~ v 200 self-proclaimed "social ~ ~ the leftists' appeal to voters. progressives who feel a clean democrats." 
~ v 
But a radical reformer break is necessary to compete Fiszbach refused to partici­
~ See your hall president or call ~ backed by Solidarity leader in Poland's new democratic pol-pate in the first session of the Lech Walesa split off to form . itics. congress Saturday, but he came
~ Kevin Roxas at x1914 for ~ 
another party free of old-style Delegate Aleksander Kwas­
to the hall Sunday morning to ~ information ~ Communists. niewski said the new party urge delegates to create a new 
"A formation which is a hy­should remain as unified as
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ party that does not include any
brid, a bag accommodating ev-possible. "This does not meal! conservative Communists. 

Champion International Corporation-one ofAmerica's leading manufacturers of paper for business communications, commercial printing, publications, and newspapers-invites Saint Mary's and Notre Dame seniors to interview for sales representative positions. 
SMC 
Reception 

Stapleton Lounge, Monday, January 29, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

all majors invited, Tuesday, January 30 and Wednesday, January 31 
Notre Dame 
Reception 

Notre Dame Room at the Morris Inn, Monday, january 29, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

A & L, BBA, Tuesday, January 30 MBA, Wednesday, january 31 



page 6 The Observer Monday, January 29, 1990 


High child abuse rate found in Ind. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -While reports of child abuse and ne­glect in Indiana have increased 18-fold during the past 10 years, the state still is operat­
ing with the same number of child welfare workers it had in 1978. 
According to children's advo­catns, the systnm is in a state of crisis: 
•Casnworkers can't monitor 

all  the  children  assigned  to  
them. Most quit in frustration  
boforn eornpleting a year on the  
r  job.  
•Fostnr  parents  caring  for  
~  '  sexually  abusP<I  or  drug-ad­ 
dieted children get Iittln or  no  
~.  support from overworked and  
inexperienced  caseworkers.  
I  Many of them drop out of fos­ter earn. •Natural parents who arP in­ 
nocent may lose their children  
until a caseworker has tirnn to  
investigate  allngations  of  
abuse.  Parents  who  have  
abused  tlwir  children  often  
don't get all the help they need  
to stop that behavior.  
•Children  who  have  been  
abusnd and neglected are  hurt  
furthnr by a system that shifts  
them from  one  foster horne to  
anothnr and caseworkers who  

Aid 
continued from page 1 
According to Husso, 
don't havn timfl to study the best allernatives. 
Statistics show 250 Hoosier ehildrrm have died of abuse or neglect during the past decade, including 31 last year. Mean­while, the National Child Wel­fare Hesouree Center reports that Indiana ranks last in the nation in salarins paid to child welfare workers. 
"I think we know how to help kids and families. I gunss it's a decision if whether or not we want to," said Edie Olson. president of thl\ Marion County Child Abuse and Neglect Coun­cil. 
A bill eligible for a final vote 
"Notre Damn is exemplary of the coun­try." 
Statistics show that this bor­rowing trend is present at the Univnrsity. Out of thn $21 mil­lioq of federal money awardnd to Notre Dame students, $17.2 million of that is from loans, whernas only $1.4 million is due to grants. 
There has been an increase particularly in panmtal bor­rowing, said Husso. 
Th1~ PLUS program is gov­ernment subsidized, is not need-based for students, and you may have up to 10 years to pay it back. It awards $4,000 per year per student with a 12 percent intl\rest rate. 
An alternative form of parental loans is private, non­governmental loans. Typically, parents may "borrow any amount, although provisions vary. Need is not an issue, there is no FAF to fill out. Credit­worthiness is a major consider­ation though, and interest rates tend to be higher," Husso ex­plained. 
Clarification 
The Inside column on Jan. 26, was not clear in its ref­erence to the University re­quirement of three-credit courses. The 40 three-credit course requirement pertains to the College of Arts and Letters only. 

Monday in the Indiana Senate tries to address some of the problem. Senate Bill 238 would spend $18 million over the next two years to add 340 case­workers to investigate and monitor cases of child abuse and neglect. 
The measure sponsored by Sen. John Sinks, H-Fort Wayne, would limit caseloads to 12 for child protective caseworkers, who investigate reports of child abuse and neglect, and to 1 7 child welfare caseworkers. who monitor abused children in their own home. 
Under current law, child wnl­fare workers are supposed to carry no more than 55 cases at a time, although some are asked to monitor as many as 80 families at once. 
"Child abuse is running ram­pant." Sinks said. "The in­crease has been horrendous. Our turnover of caseworkers has been at around 80 p1~rcent. You say 'Why'?' The caseload­they just cannot handle it." 
While few would disagree that caseworkers are over­worked, the solution may rest this year on what Indiana can afford. 
Last week Sinks said he was worried the measure, if it passes the Senate, would not survive the House Ways and Means Committee with its $18 million price tag intact. 
That's because Gov. Evan Bayh has proposed spending an additional $2 million for child welfare this year. While that may not be enough to solve the crisis. Bayh aides say anything more might lead to a tax in­crease. 
"Our position is clear," Bayh press secretary Fred Nation said. "We support the supple­mental budget in the House, which includes $2 million to hand a very serious problem in child welfare. We just can't af­ford more than that right now." 
Jan Lindemann, a legislative advocate for the Indiana Coali­tion for Human Services, says she doesn't think the system can wait another year. 
"It can wait if you don't care. that you're jeopardizing chil­dren's lives," she said. "If that should happen this year I think the governor would be in a very precarious position." 

The Observer/Kevin Weise 
No thru traffic 

Dorr Road was closed last week because of continued construc­tion on the DeBartolo quad. The road will be closed until early April, forcing drivers to change their regular routes. 
~-fffEs-HMEN--~-·--·-··-·-·-ERESHMEN--·-----·------ERe-SHMENl 
II 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 

TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE AN INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM 
by

EMIL T. HOFMAN 
II 
YEAR 

It 
I 
t 
DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES I 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1990 and 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1990 
(Both programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I
7 P.M. 

t 
I 
7 P.M. I 
II 
. 
I FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN I 
'-"..-....-.,_.:..-....-....-.....-...-..~..-..~..-..~~~,_....-..~~..-...,_...~~~.-..._..~.._...._....-.....-....-.H.-..,~.,-. ._.,_,,._.,.._.., __.,_..._,..._...._...-.~ 

~rr® W©Q11 orroitcerr~it~ 0[11) fP)®~©f1i1ilO[fi)® <!1 
~\tQ11@1 ®[fi)\t @3©w®rr[11) rrou® [11)\t 0®<!1@1 ®rr?? 
Mandatory information meeting for all student body president and vice president candidates: Monday, January 29 7:00 at Theodore's 
Campaign runs from Mon., Feb. 5 -Sun., Feb. 11 UDENT 
1989-199~ 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, January 29, 1990 page 7
The Observer 


AP Photo A three-year old survivor of Thursday's plane crash in Cove Neck, New York is carried from the scene by a rescue worker. The crash of Avianca flight 52 killed 73 of the 158 on board. 
~ SPRING BREAK '90 ~ 




~ ACAPULCO~ 
~ $499. ~ 
~ I 
~ 8 Days/7 Nights Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS... I ~ from Chicago ~ ~ONLY 20 MORE SEATS LEFT!!!!~ 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: ~ 
BOB AT 1-800-328-6028 ~ 
CALL TODAY!! ~ 
'Ill 

Experts say that air travel is safer due to improvements 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Air disasters such as the Avianca Airlines crash on Long Island last week are becoming more survivable, in part because de­sign and technical advances have made jet travel safer, many air safety experts say. 
"The accident rate is improv­ing. It's not more dangerous, it's getting better," says S. Harry Robertson, director of the Crash Research Institute in Tempe, Ariz. "Airplanes are getting safer as the newer gen­erations come along. The rate of improvement is very signifi­cant." 
Capt. Ed Arbon, who flew for 22 years with TWA and is now an official of the Flight Safety Foundation, agrees. 
"Some of the recent im­provements do make the mod­ern aircraft more surv.ivable," Arbon says. 
"Eighty to 85 percent of re­cent crashes are survivable," says Drucella Anderson, a spokeswoman for the National Transportation Safety Board. "A lot of safeguards have been built into the planes." 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 



259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m. -9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHEIRS ONlY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry, fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
Eighty-nine of the 161 pas­
sengers -more than half ­
survived the crash of Avianca 
Flight 52 into a hill on the 
north shore of Long Island. 
Preliminary inquiries suggest 
the craft had either run out of 
fuel or had a very low supply 
when it crashed Thursday night 
on its way to John F. Kennedy 
International Airport. There 
was no fire when the 23-year­
old Boeing 707 crashed. 
But many of the experts say 
that the battle for air safety is 
far from over even though air 
travel on the whole has become 
amazingly safe and millions of 
passengers are transported 
each year without incident. 
Under new rules issued by the Federal Aviation Administra­tion and prompted by the inves­tigation of air crashes, passen­ger seats are being strength­ened and have been covered with fire blocking material. The allowable level of toxic smoke and fumes from burning air­craft materials also has been reduced, and exit doors have been made more reliable to avoid jamming. 

Crash 
continued from page 1 
TRACON -who told investiga­
tors Sunday they never knew 
the plane was low on fuel. 
One local controller learned 
about the fuel shortage, but 
only after the plane had to 
abort an attempted landing, he 
said. After that attempt the pi­
lot twice told the local con­
trollers he was running out of 
fuel, Dickinson said. 
The latest information was 
discovered after investigators 
spoke to six local controllers 
who either handled the aircraft 
or were keeping track of it, he 
said. 
"For whatever reasons, we don't know, the controllers at TRACON did not know that," said Dickinson, referring to the fuel shortage. 
He said investigators on Monday will question at least four New York Center con­trollers to determine if the in­formation was relayed. 
Asked if there are rules re­quiring that fuel shortage in­formation be passed along among controllers, he said, "There has to be a handcuff or an agreement ... one would ex­pect that information going to the center, that that informa­tion would be passed on." 
He said the controllers at TRACON and New York Center were speaking to each other by telephone when control was handed off. 
Fuel receipts obtained by in­vestigators indicate the aircraft had 81,000 pounds of fuel on board, more than enough for a normal flight from Medellin, Colombia, to New York. The flight originated in Bogota, Colombia, with a stop in Medellin. 
The plane was delayed be­cause of weather-related con­gestion three times en route ­for 16 minutes over Norfolk, Va., for 27 minutes between Norfolk and New York, and for 46 minutes about 40 miles south of JFK. 
The crash, in an affluent Long Island community, oc­curred as the plane circled back for a second landing attempt after an initial approach was aborted because it was too steep, the NTSB said. 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

r 
r 
' FACULTY COURSE 


WHAT ARE THEY? 
They are forms which give you 
the opportunity to give a former 
professor "thumbs-up" or ''thumbs-down.'' 
All data will be tabulated and results will be published in a booklet which will be available to Notre Dame students. 
THIS CANNOT BE COMPLETED WITHOUT YOUR HELP! 
We need a lot of feedback for data sufficiency. 
Show you care about improving our academic growth. 
Take a few minutes and fill it out. 
REMEMBER: 
Fill in the last four letters of the professor's name on the grid. 
If you have any questions about anything (course name, number, section, etc.) call 239-7668 and we will look it up for you. 
Place results in receptacles in the lobby of your dorm. 
---~------------~---­




Business
Monday, January 29, 1990 page 9 
Environment arising as a major concern for, business 
NEW YORK (AP)-The envi-ronmentalism already has be-ment and corporations are be­
ronment's importance as an is-come a byword for conducting coming aware of their envi­
sue shaping the business land-business. ronmental responsibility." 
scape of the 1990s was brought Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., for 
into sharper focus when two example, has become a leader Exxon has been dangled be-
major oil companies took hefty in pushing suppliers for more fore the public as an example 
slices from earnings to pay recycled or recyclable products. of a company that seemingly 
pollution costs. McDonald's Corp. promotes re-failed to recognize that respon-
Exxon Corp. said $500 mil-cycling in advertising, while Po-sibility. Despite spending $2 
lion was to remedy damage al-laroid Corp. is emphasizing billion to clean the Alaska oil 
ready done, while Chevron waste reduction and Consoli-spill, Exxon still has not 
Corp. said $325 million was for dated Natural Gas Co. is focus-mended its reputation and re-
future cleaning costs at its U.S. ing on clean-burning technolo-mains the target of rebuke ev­
refining, marketing and chemi-gies. erywhere from Capitol Hill to 
cals sites. Observers say the environ-the Tonight Show. 
Oil industry experts say the ment as a cost in planning, or-
charges announced this past ganizing and setting corporate The March disaster, the na­
week highlighted what is ex-strategy is the reality of the fu-tion's worst oil spill, blackened 
pected to be the biggest single ture. the image of the entire industry. 
concern facing business, and "We should as shareholders 
the oil industry in particular, in and investors become used to "The public in general be-
the 1990s. environmental charges as a lieves the industry's behavior 
"Under any scenario, we're semi-permanent part of the fi-and goals still differ substan­
going to be spending more on nancial landscape for a long tially from what they ought to 
the environment -clean air, time," said Bernard Picchi, be and I think that's an unten­
wastn management, oil spill analyst and a managing able position for an industry to 
legislation -a whole series of director for Salomon Brothers be in," Yosie said. 
things will impact the corpo-Inc. 

rate bottom line as never be-That is changing. Sobered by 
fore ," said Terry Yosie, vice Picchi said that while the Exxon's experience, other oil 
president for health and envi-words ecology and environment companies are taking the initia­
ronment for the American scarcely existed in the oil indus-tive. The environment has be-
Petroleum Institute, the trade try lexicon throughout most of come a more central component 
associatron representing major its 150 year history, "it's a fact of business strategy and is 
oil companies and refiners. of reality in late 20th century managed at a higher level than 
Outside the oil industry, envi-America that citizens, govern-• before. 
Neil Bush will fight S&L charges leveled 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Neil senior deputy director of the Bush's decision to fight con-thrift office, the younger flict-of-interest charges Bush's stance triggers an leveled by federal thrift regu-administrative process that lators may put his father, typically lasts a year and the president, in the awk-could stretch to as long as ward position of appointing two years if initial rulings the official likely to decide are appealed. the case. 
The Office of Thrift Su-Hoyle said the thrift office pervision said Friday it will will ask an administrative issue a "notice of charges" law judge to hold a hearing alleging that actions by the on the charges and make a younger Bush as a director recommendation to the di­of a Colorado savings and rector of the thrift office, loan "amounted to conflicts currently M. Danny Wall, a of interest." Reagan administration ap­
The announcement came pointee. after the president's son re­fused to voluntarily accept But Wall, who announced an order from regulators di-his resignation last month, recting him to refrain from almost certainly will have actions constituting a con-left the agency by then, pass­flict of interest if, in the fu-ing on the case to a new ture, he became an officer of thrift office director, who a savings and loan, a bank must be nominated by the or a credit union. president and confirmed by 
Neil Bush was a director of the Senate. the failed Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Associa-White House spokeswoman tion in Denver from 1985 Alixe Glen said, "The presi­until August 1988, resigning dent's decision on a nominee two weeks before his father for the thrift office will be accepted the GOP presiden-made completely indepen­tial nomination. dently of this or any other 
According to Karl Hoyle, case." 
•

'Peace dividend' doesn't bring rapid stock price 1ncrease 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock of vast new markets in Eastern the eve of a two-year bear major world conflict has dimin­could lead to strong inflation­market's January tailspin has Europe for many types of market, came just as signs ished significantly for the fore­ary pressures. been especially dizzying for in­goods and services and of relief were emerging of an end to the seeable future," he observes. "In addition, if political tur­vestors who had bnen caught at home for the strained fed­long war in Vietnam. "If these countries achieve moil spreads to the more up in the high-flying hopes en­eral budget, in the form of re­"While the spread of capital­some stability, we would expect volatile areas of the world gendered last fall by the politi­duced federal spending. ism bodes for bullish develop­a resurgence in demand for near-term, shortages of key cal upheaval in Eastern Europe. All these hopes may prove to ments in the decades ahead, the consumer produ-cts, capital raw materials could develop. 
Now the letdown has many have a substantial basis in real­transition will be painfully slow goods, and goods and services "Thus, it is quite possible market participants wondering ity, many analysts still say. But and expensive," says James related to infrastructure con­that the euphoria surrounding whether they erred in trying to they caution that it is easy for Stack, editor of the InvesTech struction. This would be icing the outlook for the 1990s, while cash in the "peace dividend" investors to get carried away Market Analyst advisory letter. on the cake for the world econ­probably justified from a too long before it ever had a any time they are confronted "We think investor expectations omy, which is already much longer-term standpoint, could chance to be declared. with "historic" changes. have already surpassed the stronger than it was in the be premature in terms of 1990 
In the waning days of 1989, In ad(iition. they note, market realistic benefits for the next 1970s. or even 1991." many Wall Streeters began a history shows that even con­few years." "There are some caveats, crash course of study into the crete signs of peace in the Suresh Bhirud, chief portfolio however. If the move towards Even in the· midst of a broad prospective economic benefits making don't automatically strategist at Oppenheimer & economic reform continues in market setback, some fast­that might arise from the translate into a rapid increase Co., doesn't seek to minimize most of Eastern Europe, ex­moving speculators have spread of democracy behind the in stock prices. the importance of what has traordinary demand for con­reaped handsome payoffs from Iron Curtain. Some veterans recall that a happened. "It's a wonderful sumer goods and food com­the search for "plays" on East­
The headlines stirred visions market top in early 1973, on surprise that the threat of a modities will be created, which ern Europe. 
Debate of the decade: What taxes to cut first 
Well, what do you know? Here we are, just one year into an administration that the Washington wise guys said would simply have to raise taxes, and the delight­ we were fed the lie that taxes had already been slashed far too deeply, people are beginning to wake up and smell the arithmetic.  Louis Rukeyser Tribune Media Services 1980s have to be blind,  pensions of those then in re­tirement. The shocked fin­ger-pointing at the present "misuse" of Social Security taxes as general deficit-re­duction revenue should  boomers with strong volun­tary private-pension alter­natives, so that the future li­abilities of Social Security can be brought closer in line with its genuine prospective  
ful prospect arises that the  Truth is, taxes weren't cut  sleeping or kidding.  scarcely be front-page news.  revenues, without breaking  
real  news  in 1990 may be  a  penny's-worth  in  the  Moynihan,  for  his  part,  The  system  always  has  the bank.  
how deeply we cut them.  1980s.  Indeed,  while  the  has  performed  two  been a Ponzi scheme, named  Meanwhile, it's helpful to  
Democrats and Republi­cans have a brand-new ar­ spend-spend-spend crowd kept moaning that its supply  unmistakable national services. First, in countering  after the financier who paid off early investors with  recognize that Washington's nonstop tax machine has  
gument going, and it couldn't be lovelier. New York's Democratic Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan  of squanderable assets was being drastically and heart­lessly limited, taxes actually merrily resumed their up­ the pervasive myth that Social Security is a marvelously self-financing mechanism providing for the  money taken from those who came in later. And the scheme will duly collapse sometime in the next half­ more than doubled the Social Security tax in the past decade. The answer is certainly not to raise other  
says the Social Security tax has gotten ridiculously high,  ward course after a brief interruption in 1981. As a  assured retirement of every American worker. Second, in  century, as an ever-larger share of the population en­ taxes, which already are severely inhibiting our ability  
and he's absolutely right. President Bush says the sluggish economy needs new  percent of the average citi­zen's income (just under 20), federal taxes were as high at  voicing the little understood reality that both halves of the Social Security tax (now  ters retirement, unless we escalate the 21st Century Social Security tax to even  to compete internationally. The answer is to get back to basics, and insist that  
tax incentives for capital in­vestment, and it would be certifiable lunacy in these conditions to raise any in­come-tax rates -and he's absolutely right, too. His Texas ally, Sen. Phil Gramm, says those rates should in  the end of the decade as at the start. And if you add in state and local taxes -and if you don't, you go to the penitentiary -the local tax burden in 1990 is, in reality, the highest in the history of the republic.  totaling 15.3 percent) are ef­fectively paid by the worker, since the so-called em­ployer's share is also part of the business' labor cost. In the real world, as op­posed to campaign rhetoric, Social Security has never  more obscene levels. Neither side in Washington has dwelt on how to avoid such a collapse, because it is accepted in American politics today that the surest way to commit electoral suicide is to entertain even  Congress balance the budget without squeezing greater quantities of blood each year from the anemic taxpayer. If the result of the present s-quabbling over precisely which tax to cut eventually ends in reducing all of them,  
fact be brought lower in the 1990s. What a terrific year this could be for the beleaguered American Taxpayer. After years of nonsense in which  Not even in World War II did the tax load on the aver­age citizen rise as high as it is now. Those who echo the political claptrap about "excessive tax cuts" in the  been an honest retirement­insurance program. From its start, it has been essentially a transfer program, in which those then working paid the  the slightest thought of talking common sense about Social Security. Yet a solution is hardly unobtainable; it simply in­volves providing the baby- the "peace dividend" of 1990 could become the economic dividend of an entire decade. What a splendid argument -and what a splendid turn­about.  


Viewpoint 
Monday, January 29, 1990

page 10 
Ihe Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor .John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba•ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of lhe Umversl­ly of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1n1 Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstral1on of e1ther lnStltut•on The news •s reported as accurately and ob· JSC!Ively as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1lonals represent the oprmon ol the maJonly of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Chref. Manag1ng Edrtor. Executrve News Ed1tor. Vrewpo1nl Ed1tor. Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor Sarnt Mary's Edrtor Commentanes. leners. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews ol their authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the commumty and the free expressron of varyrng op1nrons on campus. through letters, is encouraged 

CRACK 

Michigan's Bo practiced what he preached 
contempt for Bo Schembechler. By Kevin Smant "Bo Don't Know Diddly," blare 
the T-shirts. "M Go Blow." This 
It was a warm, sunny late troubles me; I hope it is only a September afternoon in 1971. result of the rivalry between the On that day the Bo Schembech­two schools. Can't you see that ler-coached Wolverines, led by Bo stands for everything Notre stars such as Billy Taylor, Dame professes to stand for? Glenn Doughty, and Thorn Dar­Then there are the cynics who den, routed the Navy Midship­undoubtedly remember Bo only mnn 46-0. It was also the first as the guy who occasionally time that a wide-nyed ninn­blew up on the sidelines and year-old kid received his bap­lost far more Rose Bowls than tism in the Michigan tradition. he won. Such people only dis­ll1~'s nevnr forgottnn it; that play their ignorance. Bo tradition stays with him still. I Schembechler stood for what is know. That kid was me. right in college athletics; in an 
age of drug usB, recruiting 
Yns, even though I've lived in scandals, and widespread pub­thn !wart of Notre Dame coun­lic disillusionment with college try for somn years now, I've sports, Schembechler's depar­rnmained a Wolverine at heart. ture is a sad note. It does mat­Not just bncause they win­ter how you play the game; Bo 

played it fairly, and well. 

Schembechler's final act showcased another of his virtues--loyalty. As his succes­sor, he chose Gary Moellnr­whose record as a head coach 
What are you thinking? 
We'd like to know. Send us your 


Viewpoint 

'Do not attempt to do a thing unless you are sure of yourself; but do not relinquish it simply because someone else is not sure of you.' 
Stewart E. White 

although I'd be lying if I dnni1~d that winning played a part. But we maizn and blue fanatics also remain loyal because of the largnr commitments that Michigan football has main­tained. And all of that comes back to Bo. 
Bo Schembnchler has always talknd tough about college ath­lntics. lie demands that his players maintain their grades. lin ragns at any agents that try to skulk about his practices and talk to his players. And he critieiznd other schools when he felt thny had been unfair in thnir dealings with people. Probably the best example of this was his sharp attacks upon the University of Illinois when thny fired Bo's former assis­tant, Gary Moeller, as their head coach after only three ynars on the job. 
But talking tough is nasy. Jimmy Johnson and Barry Switzer did that. The difference is that Bo practiced what he prnached. There was the time that star running back Leroy lloard had a one hundred yard rushing game, then the next 
DOONESBURY 
week decided he could skip a couple of classes. Bo found out; the next week, lloard not only didn't start, h1~ didn't even make the trip. 
Then there was the time in 19R 1 that Texas A&M tried to woo Schembechler away from Michigan. Some well-heeled A&M alumni made a strong pitch, oll'ering a huge salary in­crease, exclusive country club memberships, free cars, and total control over the program. Bo was sorely tempted. But to his surprise, the college presi­dent was not even directly in­volved in the negotiations. Bo requested a meeting with him, whereupon he found that he had only the most rudimentary knowledge of what was going on. The whole thing was being controlled by boosters. Such a situation often leads to corrup­tion (as, in fact, occurred under the regime of Jackie Sherrill). Bo decided to stay at Michigan. 
So, to Schembechler, money isn't everything. His salary al­ways remained far below other major-college football coaches. And believe it or not, winning was not the only thing, either. There was never a hint, not a whisper, of possible recruiting scandals at Michigan. In the end, winning the national championship wasn't the most important thing to Bo. He him­self has always claimed this; most people merely dismissed his protestations as mere rhetoric. 
But his retirement this year proves he was telling the truth. He had a strong team this year; next year's team promises to be strong also, with many starters returning on both offense and defense, including Leroy Hoard and Tony Boles. But Schembechler's heart is weak; he'd been head coach at Michigan for over twenty seasons, and he wanted to spend more time with his family, which due to the pres­sures of college coaching he felt he'd neglected. "It's the hardest thing in the world for me to give up my football team," he said at the press conference announcing his decision, wiping away a tear. "But I'm doing it." 
There are many here at Notre Dame who seem to feel only at Illinois was hardly sparkling, 
but who Bo always insisted got 
a raw deal. Moeller was always loyal to Bo and to Michigan; Schembechler could have looked somewhere else for a head coach (who wouldn't have wanted the Michigan job?), but he stuck with a man he" trusted. That's a quality to be admired. 
I only hope my loyalty to Michigan-even if some year they lose more than they win­will be worthy of the standard Schembechler set. Oh. the man had his faults (how many times I screamed at him over his play-calling!), but now is not the time to dwell on them. What one returns to is pridB. Bo made one proud to be from Michigan. To bn a Wolv1~rine. Thanks. Bo. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history. 

----------------~----~-----­
--------~~----­



Viewpoint
Monday, January 29, 1990 
page n 

By Greg Jeffrey 
With each anniversary of Roe vs. Wade the abortion debate renews itself, casting most of us into one camp or another. There is, however, one view­point I wish to share that I rarely see aired: that of the young American male. 
As the number of women who have had abortions reaches into the millions, men who sin­cerely seek an intimate personal relationship with a woman must learn to deal with the aftereffects of abortion, whether they were ever respon­sible for putting a woman in such a predicament. It's a sim­ple matter of statistics and odds. With abortion so com­mon, many young American men will begin relationships and fall in love with women who hold abortion in their past. They will need to understand and accept their partner's ex­perience. That is no easy task. I know. I am one of those young men. 
It is with this background in mind that I share my thoughts. 
Born in 1960, I was 13 at the time of the Roe vs. Wade deci­sion. My class was just begin­ning its reproductive years; as such, we are the first genera­tion to enjoy freedom of choice. How has that affected us? 
First, I reflect on the atti­tudes of male peers. I recall the late night discussions in the college dorm and the alarming number of men who viewed abortion as a simple fix to a "little mistake." For the women I've known who have undergone the proct'dure, I now suspect it is mdther physically nor psychologically a simple af­fair. 
When pro-choice women argue that men can never know a woman's experience, I agree. Those guys in the dorm lounge made that evident. They ap­peared to know nothing of the reality of abortion; they pre­ferred to think of if as a simple medical procedure, an insur­ance policy covering any acci­dents on the road to sexual conquest. 
This attitude frightens me. If these men only knew the reality of abortion! Ironically, abor­tion has allowed some men to be even more cavalier in their sexist attitudes towards women; the pro-choice freedom that was to liberate women has, in subtle ways, subjected them to a harsher thoughtless­ness on the part of some males. 
Second, some people try to simplify the abortion issue by making it a religious issue. However, as I reflect on the personal stories women have shared with me, I'm led to con­clude that abortion, and the emotions and feelings associ­ated with it, crosses all reli­gious lines. Rather, the emo­tions of abortion delve past mere doctrine into the heart of every woman. Let me explain. 
It is well known that the Catholic faith strongly con­demns abortion. One might as­sume, therefore, that a Catholic woman, raised in a traditional Catholic family, might have to deal with strong feelings of guilt and depression following an abortion. One might also assume that a woman raised in a more liberal, "modern think­ing" family would suffer less guilt and self-doubt, if any. 
In my experience, however, such is not the case. Catholic, Protestant, no religion whatso­ever; all face similar feelings­a sense of loss, of mourning, and a deep pain. Why is this? Apparently the question goes beyond that of mere Church doctrine or socially acceptable attitudes. In my experience, abortion has similarly affected these women independent of their religious upbringing. It would appear there is some­thing inherent in the act of abortion that strikes at the core of a woman. 

The problem I see is this: As individuals, and as a nation, is anybody listening to their inner voices when making such a life or death decision? Or have we become a generation of cool, logical pragmatists, able to discount and disclaim any feel­ings and emotions that spring from the heart? The fact is, no 
matter how we intellectualize and debate the merits of abor­tion, what's continually over­looked is that silent moment when a woman is alone with her thoughts. 
Third, I reflect on the circum­stances that have led these women to opt for abortion. In hearing their stories, tbe emo­tion common to all was fear: fear of parents, fear of their boyfriends, fear of inability to support a child, fear of giving up future careers, fear of giving up their child. I recall the story of one woman in particular. It was a story I have heard many times since, and it ended quietly with "... but as you can see, I had no choice." I glanced up at the lapel pin she wore; it read simply, "CHOICE". I looked away, for the irony seemed unbearable. 
It appears social and eco­nomic pressures of our society have overburdened a woman's decision to have an abortion. Pro-choice, perhaps, is a mis­nomer-for do these women really have a choice? Or has the legalizaiion of abortion traded one non-option for an­other? 
I share these reflections with the hope that they stimulate new thought on the topic of abortion. Somewhere between the placard-carrying anti-abor­tionists and sloganeering abortion rights advocates there are a million real, living, breathing women who are hurting. Who will care for them? And where are America's young men? 
Greg Jeffrey is a first year graduate student in business administration. 
LETTERS 

Invitation displays University's priorities 
Dear Editor: sistently unequivocal in these that con traccption, abortion, 
The invitation to psychologist views. homosexual activity and mas­Sol Gordon to speak at Notre In its Year of the Family, turbation are always objectively Dame must be an important Notre Dame, a "Catholic" uni­wrong. Sol Gordon affirms that £Went. The lectures are spon­versity, presents Sol Gordon they are moral solutions and a sored. not by a student group, with the implication that his matter of choice. What does but by four centers of concern: views are legitimate alterna­Notre Dame affirm, in light of The Year of the Family, the tives for the consideration of its invitation of Dr. Gordon as Committee on Multicultural the University community. But a speaker on "love?" The Diversity, the University any Catholic should know that University disables itself from Counseling Center and Gender there is absolutely no way that excluding an advocate of any Studies. his prescriptions on major is­option, including contraception, 
My purpose here is not to sues could be sound. For ex­abortion, homosexual activity challenge Dr. Gordon. He is ample, Dr. Gordon believes that and masturbation, as a speaker what he is. lie is a sex educator "abortion is a moral and legit­on a subject broad enough to opposed to teenage pregnancy. imate way of terminating an include those issues. His positions on issues of sex­unwanted pregnancy." He has My quarrel here is not really ual morality relating to the written that "having an abor­with Dr. Gordon. At least give family are clear and long tion is more moral than bring­him credit for taking positions established. The invitation, ing an unwanted child into this ard expounding upon them however, tells more about what world." And he believes that p~sistently. He is a contrast in Notre Dame has become than it "The best relief for sexual ex­that sense to those who cannot does about Dr. Gordon. citement and tension for bring themselves to say that 
The significance of the invita­teenagers is masturbation," anything is irretrievably wrong tion to Or. Gordon arises from which he describes as "a nor­so that an advocate of it has no the fact that he is an advocate mal expression of sex for both claim to University sponsorship of contraception, abortion, males and females at any age. as a speaker on related issues. homosexual activity and mas­Enjoy it." One could hardly imagine the turbation as morally legitimate The autonomous individual of Holy Cross priests of an earlier and desirable. The main the Enlightenment can only en­day sitting still for University Gordon lecture, on Jan. 31st, is gage in a never-ending, sponsorship of a Sol Gordon to entitled, "How Can You Tell "scientific" search for truth. speak on love and the family, You are in Love? Gender and We are governed at Notre just as one could hardly imag­Cultural Differences." Later Dame by the spirit of the ine them sponsoring a blas­that evening, "A Conversation Enlightenment, which rejected phemy of Christ. Notre Dame with Sol Gordon" will be held. Revelation as well as the capac­has become something different 
It is hardly likely that the two ity of reason to know objective from what it was. In this re­events will not involve a presen­moral norms. Last fall the spect, the change is not for the tation of Or. Gordon's views on University could not summon better. contraception, abortion, homo­the will to draw the line short By all accounts, Dr. Gordon is sexual activity and masturba­of University sponsorship of a an entertaining speaker. So, for tion. I have extensive quota­direct blasphemy of the person those who are so inclined­tions from writings of Dr. of Christ in The Last enjoy the lectures. And be sure Gordon, which I have read, to Temptation of Christ. If Notre to write your mother and tell substantiate his moral legit­Dame feels obliged to sponsor her what you are learning at imization of all of those prac­a blasphemy of Christ, the invi­Notre Dame in The Year of the tices, including especially his tati-on to Sol Gordon is small Family. espousal of contraception and change indeed. Charles E. Rice masturbation as desirable for The law of God and the clear Professor of Law young people. He has been con-teaching of the Churcp affirm Jan.26, 1990 

Volunteer Week inspires reflection 
Dear Editor: and discussion by members of 
The upcoming Volunteer the Anti-Apartheid Network. Week sponsored by the Social On Wednesday evening sev­Concerns Commission of stu-eral persons involved with dent government, which runs Chicago street gangs will reflect from Monday, Jan. 29 through on personal expBriences, Thursday, Feb. 1, will provide including the existing drug and students here on campus with violence problems. Wrapping one of the first opportunities of up the week on Thursday the new semester to do some evening will be Mona Mathers critical self-evaluation and ac-from the local YWCA, speaking tively participate in meaningful on topics of domestic violence events of social concern in the such as battered women and community. Posing the ques-child abuse. A thirty-minute tion, "Do you care?" and if so, video will also be shown. "Is just caring enough?", the If you made a New Year's Center for Social Concerns resolution to make a difference hopes to abolish apathetic ten-this semester and beyond, dencies on campus and simul-Volunteer Week will provide a taneously raise awareness of number of golden opportuni­some vital issues. ties. The lectures and presen-
The Social Concerns tations begin nightly at 8:00 Commission will hold a series p.m. in 117 Haggar Hall. All of of lectures designed to meet the groups represented wei­this end. On Monday evening, come new members and are the Environmental Action Club anxious to make an impact on will have Delbait Hogart lee-the community. Working to­turing on the upcoming Earth gether, we can all make a dif­Day and other environmental ference. events in the area. Tuesday evening will feature a group Christopher P. Fillio from Amnesty International, Social Concerns Commissioner along with a video presentation Jan.28, 1990 
-



Accent 
page 12 Monday, January 29, 1989 
When the popular cast of "Young Guns" came together for the film, people flocked to theaters to see these modern stars in a western. Now Joe Bucolo 
another group To Be Continued 
of young men have come together in a TV version of the film. They are "The Young Hiders." 
ABC takes viewing audiences back to the Old West on Thursdays at 9 p.m. "The Young Hiders" presents a east of virtually unknown actors (and actresses) as a band of 1860 Pony Express riders. Each week presents a new situation for the band to lasso and tame. 
Ty Miller stars as Billy the Kid, the leadnr of the band . .Jimmy Hickok (.Josh Brolin) and Buck Cross (Gregg Hainwater) help the Kid with the doings of the Pony Express. Travis fine stars as a mute cowboy named Ike McSwain. The show's two women arn Lou McCloud (Yvonne Sukor), a girl who dresses as a boy to be part of the band, and Emma Shannon (Melissa Leo) who acts as the boys' mother. 
In one episode . .Jimmy and Emma travel to a fort under the calvary's guard to attend a funeral. While there. they unravel a mystery involving the 

-· mistreatment of local Indians by the U.S. military. Jimmy soon discovers the sergeant is covering for a disastrous mistake he himself made by blaming the 
Concert Update 
MERRIVILLE HOLIDAY STAR THEATRE *Tuesday, February 6 Stars hip *Friday, February 23 Rodney Dangerfield 
*Saturday, February 24 Warren Zevon 
CHICAGO PARK WEST *Saturday, February 3 The Hooters 
CABARET METRO *Saturday, February 3 The Mighty Lemon Drops 
ROSEMONT HORIZON *Thursday, February 15 Tom Petty/Lenny Kravitz 
PAVILION *Thursday, February 8 Tears For Fears/ Deborah Harry 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW: ROSEMONT HORIZON *Monday, April 23 Billy Joel 
Attention Campus Musicians! 
Huckleberry Finn comes to  
()'Laughlin Auditorium Monday  
night in Big River, a musical  
that won seven Tony awards  
including Best Musical of 1985.  
The musical charts the  
journey of Huck finn and .Jim,  
the runaway slave. down the  
mighty Mississippi River. The  
production will feature the  ·  .  
same scenic design from the Broadway version, as well as 17  J  .  slavery. . . . The sets <l;rL  

future ETC. on Notre 
RIDING TOUGH: 'The Young Riders' offers a mix 
of the Old West with fresh faces 



Indians. 

Soon, both .Jimmy and Emma lind themselves prisoners in the fort. .Just as the military is about to destroy the entire Indian camp, the Kid arrives with more forces to restore order and a new leader to the fort. 
The quality of this show deserves a twenty one gun salute. Tlw episodes are creative and intriguing; the writers don't mak11 cxcusns for the characters to shoot their guns. In fact, somP episodes contain no "shoot 'em up" scenes at all. Hathnr, thn producers have decided to foeus on life in the Old West-its people and their condition. 
Also. thP show rids itself of stereotypical western aspects. Tlwrn arn no "riding off into the sunset" scenes. The Young Hidnrs occasionally catch a bullet and don't cut it out tlwrn­selves; thny're vory human. 
The cast is excellent, and it shows. Sinen the actors arnn 't big name stars (yet) as the ones in "Young Guns" were, viewers find the characters murh ridwr and real. It is easy to soc these young men as cowboys. and their dedication to the show is noticeable. Except for occa­sional modern expressions (and the fart there wnrn no VCHs in the Old Wnst.) viewers may feel as if they're watching General Custer's home movies. 
"The Young Hiders" is an ex<·PIIent, wholesome show. It donsn 't exploit its young actors. but rather challenges them to portray human, real characters. The plots are exciting and the scenery is grnat. "The Young Riders" proves the western is back and as youthful as ever. 



Big River 
of the original songs. .ct ....oi''~:,. ·simply conceived 
The musical will be per-~dnd do ~ot over-formed by a national touring whelm the productiOn. The set company and features songs by is made to flow naturally with Roger Miller. The score travels the songs, cha~acters ~nd mood through a number of native o~ the play while keepmg the. American musical forms, nver at the center of the audi­including country, folk, and ence's view. gospel. The lyrics touch on The one and only perfor­everything from pigs to anti-mance of "Big River" is tonight 
at 7:30p.m. Tickets can be 
Tony Award 
. . 

w1nn1ng musical comes to Saint Mary's 
Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn provides the central character in the musical 'Big River' playing tonight at the O'Laughlin auditorium at Saint Mary'ss 
purchased at the Saint Mary's box office from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and also 
through Tracks Record Store. Tickets are 
between $15.50 and 18.50. 

--~-----~ -­
l 
1 ~ 
Monday, January 29, 1990 The Observer page 13 
I 
I "After 10 minutes, you didn't scorer and rebounder. Wylie game and career highs. Ellery played at Arizona, and even I 
I
Irish have to be a rocket scientist to shot just 1-of-6 from the field also led the game with 12 re­then we stayed in it for a while. I figure out we wouldn't play in the first half and finished bounds, the most he ever had With 10 minutes gone, we were Icontinued from page 20 well," said Foster. with 10 points, less than half recorded at Notre Dame. The out of this one. But with a I 
rebounds in 21 minutes. Notre Dame went on a 24-9 his average. Jake Morton led Irish outrebounded Miami 54-young team like this, these I "Normally, teams get up on us spurt that extended its lead to Miami with 16 points. 30. things are going to happen." I 10 points early." 45-17. The run closed on a After Keith Robinson and Miami started two freshmen, I Ellis was one of six Irish Texas Express alley-oop from Scott Paddock went to the Miami scored nine of the sec­one sophomore and a pair of I players in double figures. Kevin Elmer Bennett to Daimon bench with two fouls apiece, ond half's first 13 points to juniors. I Ellery led Notre Dame with 17 Sweet, with Sweet leaping high Kevin Ellery provided most of slow the carnage slightly. But I points, Fredrick added 14, to catch the pass and make the the first-half defense on Wylie. the Irish followed with a 12-4 With the crowd of 11,062 I 
I
Keith Robinson had 12 and stuff. The Irish led 54-21 at run that continued the rout. cheering on the blowout and Elmer Bennett and Daimon halftime. "Wylie liked to turn on his Senior walk-on Tim Crawford mocking the Hurricane players, I 
I
Sweet each scored 11. It "I wouldn't consider it our right shoulder," said Ellery. got the most playing time of his the JACC started to take on a 
I 
marked the second consecutive best alley-oop," said Sweet. "He "We tried to muscle him and career and scored seven points circus atmosphere. Phelps de­
I 
game in which the Irish had six (Bennett) told me it slipped out make him turn to his left." in six minutes, shooting 3-of-4 nied that the Notre Dame­I players score at least 10 points. of his hands. I just jumped as Ellery also turned in a ster­from the field. Miami football rivalry had any­I 
Joe Wylie's turnaround high as I could. It wasn't one of ling effort on the other end of "Notre Dame did a lot of thing to do with it. I jumper later closed Notre his better passes." the floor.The junior from things better today than they "It's not an issue with bas­I Dame's lead to 21-8, but that One key to Miami's lack of Springfield, Ky., shot 5-of-5 looked on tape," said Foster. ketball," Phelps said of the ri­I 
I
was as close as Miami got the scoring was Notre Dame's de­from the field and 5-of-6 from "This was the first real valry. "It's like apples and or­remainder of the game. 
fense on Wylie, Miami's top the line to score 17 points, tailkicking we've had since we anges." 
l 
Tim Crawford. crowd favorite -nor will he be Crawford sink 20-footers. 
I 
When the starters took their the last -but the fact remains "I like to see him get in and I fmal exits with 8:52 remaining that every time he gets on the get his opportunity to score," I 
Crawford I 
continued from page 20 
in the second half, the crowd court he will be in the spotlight. said sophomore forward j than we are but I don't think could sense that Crawford was It must be a tough job for a LaPhonso Ellis. "He deserves it. I they're 40 or 50 points better. coming. The sentiment grew man to do. He must sit pa­He goes to practice every day, I 
I
Maybe just 30." into a roaring demand for the tiently on the bench until he is he's never late, and he can re­
I
Commonplace characteristics senior guard until, with 6:29 called, sometimes with one ally shoot the ball. It's funny to 
I
dominated: the band was its left, Phelps made the conces­minute left, sometimes never. see other teams leaving him 
j
usual obnoxious horde; Digger sion and inserted Crawford into When he gets on the court, he is wide open, not expecting him to jPhelps stood up and sat down the game. the focus of most fans' atten­hit anything. But we know what periodically to keep busy; one The crowd, on seeing the sub­tion because of what he repre­he can do." l of the ushers proffered his stitution, went into a frenzy. It sents. l glasses to an official to help loves to see the 12th man, the With 4:20 left against the Crawford knows what he can 
l
him "see" the game clearly; and non-scholarship walk-on, the Tim Crawford Hurricanes, Crawford hit a do, but the inhibiting factor is the crowd vociferously ex­underdog, get into the game three-pointer. The crowd the small amount of time in I pressed its temporary disap­and score. Crawford is the "Obviously he can score, and he erupted, the bench chuckled, which he has to do it. 
l
proval of the University of symbolic student on this bas­can give up some scoring, so it and Crawford? "It's a tough position to be in, Miami. ketball team, the commoner in balances out to be equal. I "Not a whole lot went because you sit on the bench 
When the game became a de­the club, the one that the stu­think it's healthy to have a stu­through my mind," Crawford for the whole game, and when cided blowout, one might have dents love to laud. dent on the team, and it's shrugged. "I just thought about you finally get in there the expected the fans to start "Tim Crawford just typifies something I've always done going back to play defense, and crowd gives you support and putting on the parkas and leav­what I've done ever since I've ever since I've been a coach." doing it again." expects you to score. I just try ing. One factor helped to keep been here, having a student on The students surely appreci­Not only the crowd gets a to play the game and block out them in their seats. the team," said Phelps. ate it. Crawford is not the first special satisfaction from seeing the spotlight." 
Tht< Uoserver acce,:;ts cia3siile05 ever; o<Jsmess Oay from I 0 a.rn. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.

Classifieds 
Gays and Lesbians SUMMER JOBS POW/MIA BRACELETS-order in diningat Notre Dame/St. Mary's ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS halls now! Sponsored by Arnold Air 
NOTICES PERSONALS
P.O. Box 194 PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS SocietyNotre Dame. IN 46556 ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Open band auditions for Farley·s Word Processing 283-4256 NEAR LAKE PLACID production of Godspell: Can return on disk 
CALL 1-800-343-8373 
flutes-Monday 8:00pm 271-9t 14 How can you tell you are in Love? Sol guitar-Tuesday 8:00pm POW/MIA BRACELETS-order yours Pick up and delivery 
Earn $300-$500 per week reading
Gordon Lecture base-Tuesday 9:00pm. today!
books at home. Call1·615-473-7440 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF BIG 4:15pm Library Auditorium Be prepared to play one piece.
Ext. B340 
SCREE EN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO Wedneday. January 31 . Come to room 1 15 of Farley Hall. SEAN BROWN ... I'm sorry $1 .400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!!! 
Drummers please contact Amalia at people think you put that 
Hard Working Book People 
4021. personal in for yourself. TheyObjective: Fundraiser 
Seek Energetic Assistants 
Commitment Minimal LOST/FOUND ------------are just jealous-especially 
1 0+ hrslwk, flxbl sched 
Daytona Beach! 
Last Chance  .  
Sign-Ups  .  
8 pm Feb 7  •  

LaFortune Theater 284-4407 Jennifer 

Auditions for actresses for Money: Raise $1.400 Cavanaugh"s Up the Down Staircase 
JOEY DIMBERIO because I 

···Lost•••••...........To whoever Call 288-1 002 , M-F 3-5 pm Cost Zero Investment will be held 1/29 and1/30 from 7-9 pm 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS didn't put one in yet for his picked up my overcoat at the party on 
45ft Captained Yachts B'day on February 4th. in 127 Nieuwland. the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night, youCampus organizations, clubs. frats, 
Groups of Eight Anyway, both of you have have my ID, wallet, and keys. I would sororities call OCMC: I want a ride to Champaign,IL on 212.
1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950·8472, ext. Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas awesome 21st B'daysl!!!!! Drummer needed for classic/hard rock
like to eat this week and would really $$$. Doug X2358. 
10 $455.00 each All Accommodation & I hope this clears things up! band (singer is cousin of David 
appreciate it if you would return my 
Meals 
Coverdale) Call Vu at x1809 or x3064 coat. Thanks. And by the way, I have For Rent 

SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE a blue Air Force overcoat to trade with 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! 
1 -800-999· 7245 Anytime
Distributorships. Dealerships. Money you. Mark x2937. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR 
making opportunities, Franchises, & .......................... HUMAN IT AS JOURNAL 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
There once was a chemist named National Marketing Company, Box Fred, book reviews. Submit to English Office Mail order. Detail, send $2.00 to: now accepting essays. fiction and 
Found: blue. Air Force overcoat. Call NORTHWEST · 3-bdrm, gas heat. 
3006. Boston. MA. 02t30 Who let camphor go to her head. •••sENIORs••• by feb. 16th.
Mark@ x2937. 

CiA, Refrigerator, washer/dryer. 
An engineer tried to sway her, 
29 Days until............ ------------------------------------­
fenced yard. patio. $375/mo. plus 
But the vapors did stay her. 
TYPING AVAILABLE SENIOR FORMAL BID SALES!!! hi!
utilities. Deposit required. 232-1 206. 
So she studied her guts out instead. 
287-4082 Need a date???? ----------------------··------------­
LOST: Gold and diamond ring Come to SR./Aiumni Club Tues. Feb. ATIENTION JUNIORS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

in LaLortune basement rest­

ADOPTION room. Of great sentimental House for 1990-91 school year. 
CASH FOR CARS, TRUCKS 13 for '"Got a date/Need a date" night!!! If you want to get involved in the J.P.W. 
regardless of condition. 277-9954. MASS go to Stepan Center Tues. 
value. If found, please call Furnished, secure home, 6 bdrms., 2 Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, -···-------------------------··------January 30atTheresa @ X4856. Possible baths, competitive rent. Close to ND.

In love? Sure? Find out. seek white newborn to love and hi ag 3:30 to audtlton to be a reader. Any
reward. 

234·6688.
Sol Gordon lecture 4:15 Library cherish. Legal, confidential. Please -------------------------·-------··--questions????? Auditorium. Wedneday. January 31. call Hanna & Mark collect And... SEAN BROWN turns 21 Call Meg x2639. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
···:·-··:;··----------:·-------------LOST: Gold chain and cross at (212) 864-5512 on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B"DAY! 
219-291-7153.
Thrnk 11 s Love? Frnd out for sure. Sol the ACC on Tues. night _ Of Gordon Lecture . . great sentimental value. If Parrot Heads Forever!!! 4:15pm Ltbrary Audttonum found please call X1002. -­
Wednesday. January 31. 
The Copy Shop is convenience. 
Needed: Anyone with any form 

Lower Level LaFortune USED TEXTBOOKS 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that of electronic percussion/drum LOST -Maryland License Plate· 
special guy the best Valentine of all­machine/sampler/4-track!keyboard for "'IRISH91". Reward. X1745.
AT A DISCOUNT! 
KEYBOARDIST wanted to join Pandora·s Books 233-2342 
FOR SALE 
yourself -in a glamour portrait by a temporary
established high-energy progressive corner of N.D. ave. and Howard nationally published model experimental/industrial/performance
rock/dance band. Good equipment 
VCR for Sale: $90 or best offer. Curtis art project. Call Jason at x3677. 
LOST: Navy blue scart with Mathes model with wireless infrared and attitude a must, backing vocals a photographer. Details and free I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 A 
blue stripes between book­remote (VHS). Good Condition. If plus. brochure. Joe Ringer. 287-0613. PAGE. CALL TANYA AT 239-6299. 
Had a party lately? Spilled • store and Flanner on 1/22. 
interested, call or leave message for All interested contact: refreshments" on your carpet? Call 
Dennis #3281 ... Brian #1804 
Rich at 239-7471 (The Observer) Was X-mas gift from very 
SPARKLING special person. If you picked ••••MADMACS MEETING•••• 
CLEANERS it up, please call Jim x1 160.
7 pm Tues, Jan 30 
DEC 350 Computer rm 300 Math/Comp Bldg 
to have your carpets cleaned, -------------------------------------with IBM compatible printer. WINTERFEST SUMMER JOBS call Mark or Cesar at 283­:x>UNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Maas.
Everything included. $500. 
1584!
I Giril Camp, MaineMeeting Topic: 

Call271-9810. Mac Viruses & Virusology 
WANTED IS 
Top Salary. Rm!Bdllaundry. Travel Saint Mary·s Women-The 
Allowance. Observer office-309 Haggar­
COMING!!!!! 

Must love kids and have skill in one of ATIENTION·HIRING! Government Encyclopaedia Britannica. 
is now open for classifieds: 

the following activ~ies: Mon-Fri: 12:30·3:00 FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call Immaculate. Plus year books WINTERFEST 
Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball.

Virus detection 1 ·602-838-8885. Ext. R6262. WINTERFEST
and Annals of America collection. & eradication software 
Basketball, Bk:yding, Cheerteading.
$500. 271-9810 WINTERFEST 
Dance. Drama, Drums. Fencing, Golf.
CAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, sleepaway WINTERFEST ~u~ar. Gymnastics. Hockey. Horseback.
MADMACS MADMACS MADMACS camp. Massachusetts. Some key WINTERFEST 
Karate. l.acrosse. Nature. Nurses. 
YOURND&SMC positions avail. Also: WSI, lifeguard. WINTERFEST 
Photography, Piano. Radio, Rocketry, 
MACINTOSH USER GROUP arts & crafts, all land and water sports, WINTERFEST Ropes. Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba,7pm Tues. Jan 30 1990 fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for WINTERFEST Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski,rm 300 Math/Camp bldg shows. drama, judo. dance, tennis, WINTERFEST
TICKETS 
Weights, Wood. Men call or write: 
archery, photography, computers, Can"4l Winadu, 5 Glen Lane,MAIL BOXES ETC. model rocketry. guitar, radio, video. 

DESPERATELY need 1 0 Mizzou-Mamaroneck. N.Y. t0543 (9t4)Shipping, Copies, Cards. yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, Attention! Attention! 
ND Basketball tickets. Will pay lots o· 
381-5983. Women call or write: Camp 
Laser Quality For woodwork, RN typist. 6/18-8/20. CAMP I need two tickets to the Missouri 
cash.$$$$$$Call Colleen at 283·4055 Vega, P.O. Box tnt, Duxbury, MAPapers. Reports, Resumes, Etc. EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, basketball game. Please call Terri at
ASAP. 
02332 (6t7) 934-6536.

277-MAIL NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 284-4254. 


Monday, January 29, 1990 
page 14 The Observer 
Lendl takes Australian Open title 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

after injury forces Edbe to uit 
MELBOUHNE. Australia (API -Ivan LPndl rPpeated as Australian Open men's champion Sunday when StPfan Edberg retin~d with a stomach musde injury in the third snt. 
It was thn first time in the Australian Open's H5-year his­lory that a men's finalist has quit in the middle of a match. Lendl led 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 5-2 wlwn EdbPrg told the umpire he could not continue. 
EdbPrg receivnd massage by a trainer during the match and rubb!'d his sorn musclns snvnral limns during brnaks. 
"It's not thn gn~atest fnPiing to win in this way," Lend I said. "I hope Stl'fan rerovers soon. It's unfortunatn, but sometimes things happnn this way. lit> car­rind on for quit1~ awhile and showed great courage. I hope WI' ran comP back 12 months from now and slug it out till the nnd." 

The only othPr finalist to re­tin~ in mid-match in Grand Slam history was II. Hoper tiebreaker, Lendl won the next Foreign Legion-style hat for Barrett. who quit after four six, including one on a double­sun protection in his previous sets against Anthony Wilding at fault by Edberg. Lend! won the matches here, came out hatless Wimbledon in 1911. set with a backhand passing this time on a cool, overcast 
Edberg, who was forced to shot that whizzed down the day. mtirn from the Australian Open line. Edberg, one of the quieter with a back injury last year Edberg double-faulted on the players on the tour, had one of aftPr winning in the round of last two points to suffer a the more boisterous cheering 16, was in obvious pain from break in the opening game of sections as shirtless Swedish the middle of the seeond set on. the third set. He fought back men with one letter each of his 
The trainer worked on him three break points in the third name written on their chests aftnr the fifth game of the sec­game to hold after five deuces. led cheers for him. ond set, when Edbnrg took ad­But the injury was clearly slow­Many of the dozens of vantage of four errors to break ing him and draining him of en­Swedish fans had their coun­Lendl and put the set back on ergy. try's flag painted on their faces serve at 3-2 Lendl's. Lendl played well but not as and often chanted his name be­
Edberg held and kept the set crisply as he did earlier in the tween points. on serve, pushing it to a tournament and might not have Edberg won the Australian on tiebreaker when he came back beaten a healthier Edberg. grass in 1985 and 1987. LendI, from 15-40 in the 12th game. Lcndl. who started a fad a Czech who lives in Greenwich, 
But after Edberg took the among the other players and Conn .. won on the hard courts first two points of the fans when he wore a French here last year. 

J.\'lJIJ'~~Jij~(r_)[flj FIRST TIME BORROWERS STAFFORD AND/OR SUPPLEMENTAL LOANS 
The University of Notre Dame is committed in helping you understand the borrowing and repayment process of your student loan. We have made arrangements to hold ten brief loan counseling sessions later this month. Each session will consist of a 15 minute video presentation and time for questions, if necessary. For your benefit, we strongly recommend that you attend. 
Monday, January 29th La Fortune, Notre Dame Room  2:00-2:30 PM 3:30-4:00 PM  2:45-3:15 PM 4:15-4:45 PM  
Wednesday. January 31st La Fortune. Notre Dame Room  7:00-7:30 PM 8:30-9:00 PM  7:45-8:15 PM  
Thursday, February 1st La Fortune. Notre Dame Room  2:00-2:30 PM 3:30-4:00 PM  2:45-3:15 PM  

If you find it impossible to attend one of the above sessions, the video tape will be on reserve at the Audio Learning Center located on the second floor in the Hesburgh Library. You may also speak with a counselor in the Financial Aid Office. 

-· 
Basketball referees are needed for intramural games at Saint Mary's on Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 
p.m. Starting pay is $5 per game. Call 284-5549 for more information. 
Irish Outdoors will meet at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Theodore's to discuss the upcoming ski trips. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
TaeKwonDo Club will practice at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Joyce ACC fencing room. Practice will also be at 8:30 
p.m. Thursdays. Call x1878 for more information. 
Bookstore Basketball commissioner applications should be picked up at SUB office in Lafortune until Wednesday. They are due at 4 p.m. Wednesday. Call 234-9716 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune. The group will discuss upcoming events. 
Equestrian Club is organizing lessons for the spring semester. Call x2875 or x4215 for more information. 
Arnold Palmer won two holes, including one worth $215,000, and earned a total of $24,000 to dominate the Senior Skins Game on Sunday. 
In college basketball action Sunday, Temple whipped St. Bonaventure 59-46, LSU edged UNLV 107-105, Virginia outlasted Wake Forest 71-70 in overtime, Duke nipped Georgia Tech 88-86 and Minnesota ripped Indiana 108-89. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space constraints, no brief may run more than two times. 

JUNIORS 
??Questions about JPW?? 
DROP BY THE NEW JPW OfFICE LOCATED ACROSS FROM THE OBSERVER ON THE 3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE FROM 7-9 PM MON.­THURS. OR CALL 239-6028. 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: March 2-4, 1990 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Hesburgh Library) 239-7800 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: January 26 -February 2 
COST: $20.00 
Monday, January 29, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Saint Mary's hoops ends slump 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
Upping its season record to 7-6. the Saint Mary's basketball team defeated Franklin College 62-56 on Saturday. 
The Belles got off to a strong start. leading 18-6 early in the first half. That margin proved to be the Belles' biggest lead of the game. 
Franklin battled back and cut the Saint Mary's lead to only four points. Saint Mary's took a 35-31 l1~ad into halftime. 
The game was close through­out the second half as neither team could break the contest open. Franklin led the game midway through the second half. but the Belles began to take charge in the last few minutns of the game. 
Junior guard Mea Tettonborn sealed the victory for Saint Mary's by hitting two key free throws late in the game. 
The Belles shot 44 percent from the field and 50 percent from the line. 
Senior guard Julie Radke led the Belles with 16 points, with one three-point goal and five assists. Senior forward Amy Baranko followed with 12 points. Sophomore forward Janet Libbing had eight points and nine rebounds, while sophomore forward Catherine Hestovich tallied seven points. 
"We finished the week in good shape. We're starting to show signs that we're getting back to how we were before the break," said Belles coach Marvin Wood. 
In earlier action, the Belles defeated Indiana Institute of Technology on Thursday 77-68. That win broke a four-game losing streak for Saint Mary's. 
Against Indiana Institute of Technology, it was the defense that kept the Belles in the game during the first half. At half­time, Saint Mary's trailed 32­
31. 
"Our defense did a good job for us. We didn't let them do the things that they wanted to 
do" Wood said. 
The game remained close un­til the last eight minutes of play. Radke hit two three-point shots. and the Belles went up by six. Saint Mary's never trailed 
again. 
"It was a battle. Both teams fought evenly the first 32 min­utes. But we pulled ahead the last eight minutes for the vic­
tory." Wood said. 


freestyle (1:45.54) and Dave against Duke and North Thoman took the 50 free with a Carolina State next weekend,"

Swim 
time of 21.94. said Welsh. 
continued from page 20 In the women's meet, the Since their loss to Ball State noted. "It was also encouraging Irish defeated Western Ontario, on Jan. 13, both the men's and that in our second day of rac­106-99. Susan Bohdan captured women's teams have won five ing. we were still turning in the 500 freestyle (5:15.39) and meets in a row. With the end of s1mson 's best times in both long Williams again took two events, the dual meet season fast ap­and short distances." the 200 individual medley and proaching, the teams look to be 
The men's victory, 118-84, in­the 200 butterfly. well prepared for the MCC cluded six first-place finishes. "These two days give us con­Championships that will be held .Jim Birmingham won the 200 fidence that we will race well at Notre Dame on Feb. 8-10. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
DAYTONA BEACH fromS129* 
API'hcm 

Pittsburgh Penguins' center Mario Lemieux, pictured here with Calgary goaltender Mike Vernon at last week's NHL All-Star Game, tied the second-highest record for scoring in consecutive games Sunday against Buffalo. 
-

..... ..... ..... 
~ ~



JUNIORS 
~ 

SEATING FOR THE JPW DINNER AND ~I BRUNCH WILL BE HELD AT THE CCE ~I FROM 2-10 PM, MON. JAN 29TH AND I TUES. JAN 30TH. ~ I 
THREE FAMILIES WILL BE ALLOWED PER TABLE, WITH A MAXIMUM OF THREE TABLES PER GROUP­EACH JUNIOR IS ALLOWED TO PRESENT A MAXIMUM OF 9 I.D.s. 

I 

QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 ~ I BETWEEN 7-9PM MON-THURS. 
...-...~..--.--.~...~...~...--.-~-...-.... --..-..• 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --~ ---~ 
How Can You Tell You Are in 
Love? 
Gender and Cultural Differences 
a public lecture by 
Sol Gordon 
Professor Emeritus, Syracuse University 
Wednesday, January 31 
4:15 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
and 
A Conversation With Sol Gordon Wednesday, January 31 
8:00 p..m Grace Hall 
Sponsored by · Year of the Family • Committee on Muldcultural Diversity ·University Coun~eling Center • Gender Studies 

THE REEF AND CAROUSEL HOTELS & KITCHENETTES • 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND froms129* 
SHERATON CONDO & HOTEL, GULF VIEW, LANDFALL TOWER, SAIDA CONDOS, HOLIDAY INN • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT from s101 * 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS WITH ALL LIFTS -PICNIC -RACE 
FORT LAUDERDALE fromS132* 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND fromS127* 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7 NIGHTS 
DON•J DELAY! 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK ~g~ INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 

I·BDD·J21·5911 
7AM-7PM M-Th. 7AM-5PM Fri. 9AM-5PM Sat, Mountain Standard Time Reservations may be made by credit card

·=[I]][il
24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS (303J 225-1514 
• Oependmg on break dates and length of stay 


page 16 The Observer Monday, January 29, 1990 
Anny sends Irish into boot camp 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
Army marched into the Joyce ACC and gave coach Hie Schafer's Notre Dame hockey squad a lesson in good, old­fashioned military discipline in a two-game weekend sweep of the Irish. 
The Cadets took advantage of Notre Dame's lackadaisical second period pprformance on Friday night to win by a 7-4 score, and came right back on Saturday to shut down the Irish 5-2. 
"Army is a better hockey team than we are," said Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer, "We got beaten by a little bit better team this weekend. They arc strong. really fast, and make a lot of nice passes." 
On Friday the turning point in the game came early in the sec­ond period, when Army's Phil Esposito was sent to the penalty box for slashing. The Irish had played fairly well up to that point, but still were on the wrong end of a 3-1 score. A power -play goal could have put them back into the game. 
Instead, both Notre Dame de­fensemcn got caught deep in Army's zone. Cadet forward AI Brenner pickf~d up the puck in­side his own blue line and broke in alone on Irish goalie Lance Madson for a shorthanded goal which demoralized Schafer's team. 
The Irish did manage to make a comeback. After Scott Tardif scored to give Army a 5-1 lead, sophomore Dave Bankoske scored on a power play with 1:{ seconds left in the second pe­riod to cut the deficit back to three goals. 
The Irish continued to chip away at the Cadet lead, as freshman Curtis Janicke scored on a power play from Kevin Markovitz at 3:54 of the third period. Just 78 seconds later, Pat Arendt skated down the left side and smacked a slap shot past Cadet goalie Brooks Chretien on a two-on-one break to bring the Irish within a goal. 
They would get no closer. Mike Gengler scored from Tony Tamburino at the 7:28 mark for Army, and the Cadets coasted the rest of the way. 
Said Schafer. "We made a good comeback attempt, but unfortunately too many players had their worst game of the season for us. I was disap­pointed that we had so many selfish, avoidable penalties. 
"The shorthanded goal really hurt. That was a very bad power play. All five of our guys attacked their goal, and they ended up with a two-on-zero break the other way. Let me say 

.~. 
this-mistakes were made." 
Saturday's game was domi­nated by defense. Army scored the only goal of the first period when Todd Traczyk stole the puck from Janicke when the Cadets were a man short and slid a pass to Chris Kindgren, who tipped the puck past Madson for yet another short­handed goal. 

Bankoske's team-high 21st goal evened up the score while Tamburino was in the penalty box for slashing in the second period. Irish captain Tim Kuehl dug the puck out in the corner and worked the puck to Bankoske behind the goal. Bankoske wheeled in front of the net and flipped a backhan­der that bounced awkwardly off Chretien's pad and into the net. 
The score remained 1-1 until the third period, when AI Brenner set off a string of three unanswered Army goals by picking up the puck at the side of the Irish net and poking a shot past Madson. The Irish didn't score again until there was only 3:57 left in the game and Janicke rifled a rocket past Chretien from the point. 
That cut the Army lead to 4­
2. Schafer replaced his goalie with an extra skater with 2:40 left, and his gamble almost paid off. Just 5 seconds later sophomore Lou Zadra back­handed a shot which may have crossed the goal line before Chretien smothered it. But the goal judge didn't flash the red light. and the referee waved his arms to signal that the Irish hadn't scored. 
Tim Kuehl almost scored 35 seconds later on a similar play, but once again the referee waved off the goal, and a Cadet empty net goal with 34 seconds left kiHed all Irish hopes of a victory. 
"According to what our play­ers said. the first one was in, but the goalie was on top of it, so the referee couldn't see it," said Schafer, 'That was kind of a last ditch attempt anyway. I've never pulled a goalie with 
2:40 left in the game, but we had nothing to lose. 
"We had a solid effort tonight," Schafer continued, "It wasn't lackadaisical play on our part (that caused the loss). we just got beaten by a better hockey team. You won't see an­other Army team like this for a long time. It's a cyclical thing there. They have a lot of upper­classmen who play well, and number 12 (Rich Sheridan) is one of the best players I've seen." 
The loss dropped the Irish to 14-10 on the season. They will host Air Force next weekend at the Joyce ACC. Games will begin at 7:30 on Friday and Saturday nights. 

The 0JserverI Scxllt McQnl The Notre Dame hockey team was swept by Army over the weekend losing 7-4 on Friday and 5-2 on Saturday. The losses dropped the Irish to 14-1 0 on the season. 

The right time.The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment You'll State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become 
Contact your campus
a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about 
waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer; and one of State Farm today.largest corporate data procesz­the top life insurance companies 
Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant 
ing facilities in the country. in the country. 
Near Notre Dame and Memorial Hospital 

Director; Home OffiCe Personnel
Charming, Historical, Built in Greek 

There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. 
Relations, One State Farm Plaza,
Revival Style. 

ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art 
Bloomington, Illinois 61701.
3 bedrooms, 2 baths with many extras. STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington, lllinoi~ Art Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Mid 40's. 
Call Harold Zeltwanger: 291·9338 
or ERA Bower Homes: 289·7911 

Monday, January 29, 1990 The Observer page 17 
DePaul remains nemesis forND women's basketball team 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
During two separate scoring runs in the Notre Dame women's basketball game with DePaul Saturday, the Irish ap­peared to be on the verge of overcoming countless obstacles to upset the Blue Demons. Unfortunately for the Irish, these efforts proved futile and Notre Dame lost to their arch­rivals for the fifth straight time, 71-64. 
For the 11-6 Irish, the game was a constant battle. DePaul took the Notre Dame squad out of its game early on by combin­ing excellent shooting with an aggressive defense. Their dis­ruptive style caused the Irish to rush their shots and commit sloppy turnovers. 
"They took us out of our game,"commented a disap­pointed Coquese Washington. "We were trying too hard." 
"We were never in the flow of our offense," added captain Lisa Kuhns. "It was add lib the whole time." 
Notre Dame seemed confused from the beginning of the game, failing to convert routine field goals while allowing the 8­6 Blue Demons to intercept misguided passes and jump to a 22-8 lead. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw summed up the analy­ses of Wahington and Kuhns. 
"I think we played without confidence from the beginning," McGraw said. "We missed easy shots and took ourselves out of the game mentally." 
McGraw added that she felt Notre Dame failed to slow the speedy Blue Demons and in­stead played at a frantic pace. In addition, the Irish shot a miserable 29% in the first half and finished at 38%, well below their season average of 48.6%. 
Despite this low ·percentage, each time DePaul appeared to be pulling away, Notre Dame struggled back and kept the game within reach. When the Blue Demons amassed their 22­8 lead, Irish point guard Karen Robinson took the situation 

Irish Gardens has re-{)pened for the SpringSemester! 
• 
flowers 


• 
balloons 


• Valentine and Greeting Cards Remember to order early for St. Valentine's Day! 

lf1" h
Gaf~ens 
Basement of LaFortune Mon. -Sat. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

I 
~ ~ 

YOU WOULD BE SURPRISED HOW 
~ 

LITTLE TIME IT ~ TAKES TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE ... 


Monday, January 29 8:00 p.m. 117 Haggar 
Lecture/Discussion on Earth Day and other community environmental projects, by De/bart Hogart of the National Wildlife Federation. 
Wednesday, January 31 8:00p.m. 117 Haggar Discussion on the gang & drug situation in Chicago by members of St. Malacky's Parish and residents of the Cabrini and Green Housing Projects. 
into her own hands and sparked the first of two Notre Dame comebacks. 
Robinson, who led Irish scor­ing with 18 points, hit three free throws, brushed by all de­fenders as she drove in for a layup and nailed a 14-foot jumper. Those plays combined with baskets from Kuhns and Davis to bring the Irish within four as DePaul led 24-20. 
The Blue Demons held off the Notre Dame surge until half­time, taking a 30-25 lead into the locker room. When the Irish returned to the floor for the second half, however, Sara Liebsher and Washington as­sured DePaul that this drive was for real. 
Liebsher began the second-half scoring with a 15-foot jumper. Then Washington im­mediately stole the ball back from the Blue Demons and drove to the hoop to make it 30-29, as close as the Irish would get all day. 
"I thought we had them," said Liebsher, who finished with fif­teen points and a team leading nine rebounds. 
But with the Irish closing in, DePaul's Beth Hasenmiller and company let Notre Dame know they would not go down easily. Hasenmiller led the Blue Demons with 20 points while pulling down nine off the boards. With help from Veronica Ross, Gail Ash and Kris Maskala. who all ended the contest scoring in double figures, Hasenmiller dominated the next fifteen minutes of the game. putting DePaul up 56-44 with less than four minutes re­maining. Physical defense that forced 24 Irish turnovers com­bined with 50% shooting from the floor to control most of the second half and shut down the makeshift Irish offense. 
"They play great defense," admitted McGraw, "and they do a great job inside, but we didn't lose because of a lack of talent or experience. They were hun­grier." 
McGraw added that the in­tensity Notre Dame showed in its final run at the end of the game was missing up to that point. 
"We had a great deal of ef­fort in the last four minutes that was missing in the first thirty-six," McGraw com­mented. 
With' just over a minute re­maining in the game, two three­pointers from Liebsher and a trey from Kuhns pulled the Irish within five at 64-59. Yet the exhausted Irish did not 
• 
have the energy to complete the victory. Liebsher and Nowlin fouled out as the desperate Irish searched for some way to gain possession. The steady Blue Demons then made seven­of-eight free throws to seal the win. 
"They beat us on the block and in the paint," said McGraw of her team's lackluster inside game. "We can't score from the block and they are good off the boards too." 
"We knew what we had to do and didn't do it," commented a frustrated Krissi Davis. 
Notre Dame hopes to regain its offensive composure tonight at the ACC as they host MCC foe Evansville at 7:30. The Irish hold a 9-0 series advantage against the 6-9 Purple Aces who will look to Diane Starry 
(17.5 ppg, 5.6 rpg) to pace their attack. 
Tuesday, January 30 8:00 p.m. 117 Haggar 
Video/Discussion on apartheid in South Africa, presented by Amnesty International. Presentation by co-chairpersons of the Anti­Apartheid Network 
... 
Thursday, February 1 8:00 p.m. 
117 Haggar 

Video presentation and discussion on issues of domestic violence, by Mona Mathers of the YWCA. 


Sponsored by the Social Concerns Commission of Student Government 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

• 
-
-
• 
49ers 
continued from page 20 
1-yard TD run. In fact, just about everything that happened had some histor­ical significance. 
Rice's three touchdown catches set a Super Bowl record and gave him four over­all, tying Franco Harris of those great Steeler teams for career touchdown catches in a Super Bowl. Rice's three touch­downs also tied -who else? ­teammate Craig, who had three In the 1985 game. 
But none of that was new for 
Denver, which two years ago 
lost to Washington in a game in 
which the Redskins set a record 
for setting records. This year, 
Denver approached that -the 
24-point halftime margin was 
the second largest only to the 
35-10 margin by which the 
Broncos trailed Washington 
two years ago. 
Not that it wasn't expected, 
although San Francisco's win 
was the first since 1973 over 
Denver in a game that counted. 
The Broncos were the only 
team the 49ers didn't beat in 
the 1980s. 
The Broncos entered the 
game knowing they couldn't 
miss tackles or drop passes, 
but that's exactly what they 
did, giving San Francisco the 
opportunities that no one can 
give the 49ers. 
And It wasn't all offense. 
The San Francisco defense, 
particularly the secondary, to­
tally shackled Elway. 
Elway had time to throw but 

Monday, January 29, 1990 
l Notes, quotes and info from Super Bowl XXIV 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-History, as well as the Denver Broncos, 
took a beating in Sunday's 55-10 Super Bowl victory by the San 
Francisco 49ers. 

•San 
Francisco became just the second NFL team to win four Super Bowls. The Pittsburgh Steelers were the first. 

•"If 
you want to go for another, that's fine with me," 49ers owner Ed DeBartolo told his team in the locker room after Sunday's victory. 

•The 
55 points scored by San Francisco were the most ever in a Super Bowl. The Chicago Bears set the previous record with their 46-10 victory over New England in Super Bowl XX, also in New Orleans. 

•"This 
is the best team in the history of football," 49ers offensive tackle Bubba Paris said of his team. 

•Joe 
Montana, who set five career and two game records in Sunday's game, was named the Most Valuable Player of the Super Bowl for a record third time. Bart Starr and Terry Bradshaw have been MVP twice each. 

•"Joe's 
the best," said 49ers receiver Jerry Rice, who caught three of Montana's record five touchdown passes. 

•Montana's 
first completion -to Roger Craig on the fifth play of the game -was his 62nd in Super Bowl competition. He and Dallas' Roger Staubach had been tied for the lead with 61. 

•Montana's 
sixth pass attempt of the game was his 99th in the Super Bowl, breaking another of Staubach's records. 

•Montana's 
7-yard touchdown pass to Brent Jones late in the frrst quarter gave him 934 career Super Bowl passing yards. That surpassed the previous record of 932 by Pittsburgh's Terry Bradshaw. 

•Montana's 
28-yard touchdown pass to Jerry Rice early in the third quarter was the San Francisco quarterback's lOth Super Bowl career touchdown pass, surpassing another of Bradshaw's records. 

•Montana's 
touchdown pass to John Taylor in the third quarter gave him five TD passes in the game, one more than Bradshaw 


had in Pittsburgh's 35-31 Super Bowl victory over Dallas in 1979.
when he did, Don Grifl"in, intercepted by Michael Walter, •Thirteen consecutive completions by Montana set anotherRonnie Lott, Tim McKyer or setting up Montana's 28-yard Super Bowl record, topping the 12 straight by Phil Simms of the Chet Brooks was there to knock TO pass to Rice on the next New York Giants against Denver in 1987.
the ball away. Elway's only play. Four minutes later, •Denver cornerback Tyrone Braxton: "Late in the third quartercompletion in his first 10 Brooks picked off Elway and and at the beginning of the fourth, I knew we were in trouble. We passes was a 27-yarder on Montana responded two plays didn't have many points and we weren't doing anything." Thewhich he shoveled the ball to later with a 35-yarder to score at the time was 48-10.
Bobby Humphrey, who ran for Taylor. 
•Roger Craig got his 17th career Super Bowl reception late in most of the yards. Elway's numbers were built the first quarter, breaking a record he previously shared withAnd he finished the half just 6 mostly against a defense that Pittsburgh's Lynn Swann. 
of 20 for 64 yards. Then he had knew it had only to prevent big •The first team that scored had won 16 of the previous 23 Super his first pass of the second half' plays. 
Bowls. Make that 17 of 24. .IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII. 
~ lfJJI~I_gl.[l) I.MJ@OOI~W~ ~ ©~OO?Jlf ~LFIFCQJI~f!D @)[FJ~OOO~ ®IF~iBlA\f}<~ ~ Earn money by working JPW _ 
= *server, set up, & break down positions = available* : 
~ Sign up in the NOH Jan. 30, 31 Feb. 1 or : ~ SOH Feb. 6, 7, 8 
!!!! = 
: Bring a passport, or bring your social security ~ or birth certificate along with your student I ID or drivers license. 
= No Financial Aid Requirement 
IIHIIIIIKIID.HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIil
L 


SIGN-UPS FOR "NEIGHBORING TALENTS" on February 7 & 8 during the Dining Hall Hours-tryouts will be held on February 11 all day in O'Laughlin Auditorium 
SUPPORT SMC ATHLETICS this Thursday as the Basketball team plays Purdue Uniuersity-Calumet at 7:00 
Coming soon: Keenan Revue Party 
· Monday, January 29, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD Monday 
7 p.m. Film: "Our Hospitality," Snite Museum of Art. 9 p.m. Film: "The General," Snite Museum of Art. 
ACROSS 30 Converts skin to 50 Craved leather 
54 Hideaway1 Notable periods 31 Of the eye 55 TightwadMENUS 5 Shouts for 
33 Caddoan Indian 

Detroit Lions 57 The scourge of 34 High in pitch serge
Notre Dame 10 Youngman or Berle, e.g. 35 Greed 58 It's found in 
London Broil 

certain quarters 
37 Metallic rock 59 Have pressing Meatball Grinder 13 Armored vehicle 
Cod Cakes w/ Sauce 14 Finery 38 Low digit problems
39 He makes good scents 15Greengem 60 Actress Taina 

16 Consequences 40 Drudgery18 Sweetsop 61 Sabots or
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 41 Ultima!~ goals
19 Ship attendant oxfords 
43 Rubs the wrong 

20 Most vapid 62 Fabray and 
way Walker. to 221ke's command 

45 Sheltered at sea 

friends 
23 Bradley or 
46 "Oysters­

Khayyam 
season" 24 Gazed DOWN
47 Some workers at 27 Mule clinics 
1 An anagram for sate 
2 Actor who ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE missed the 
... boat? 
3 Kitty's contributor 
4 Shish-kebab 11 March 15, e.g. 28 Uncanny 44 Sound of 
servers 
disapproval 5 Strict 47"Winnie­12 Trial 29 Staggers 
31 Sturdy trees 
15 A morning glory 32 Before: Prefix disciplinarian Pu" 
17 Estimate 48 It's often hit on 35 More competent 6 Mouthward the head 21 Priest's7 Buchwald or 36 Degrees of 49 PersianvestmentCarney elements' potentate, once24 Assert
s Cheers combining 
50 Valley25 Kite's claw power
9 Of rhythmic heart 51-avis contractions 26 Preceding in 40 Dwarf 52 Collar or school 

..:,:.+::;+..:~ 10 Impervious to time 42 Vigilant 53 Cozy rooms H20 27 Budge 43 Thin pancakes 56 Self 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE C:J<'~HY !ARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




-,. 
, 
Sign-ups for W llilllUtEITfrtE§ U 1r@lilliTilli@mtE ITil U§ 
and 
I83 tEIllicdlrrA\ w@@cdl§ 1riTllJP> •· 5-7 PM beginning Monday, January 29 thru Wednesday, January 31 in the SUB Office 

Sports
page 20 Monday, January 29, 1990 
49ers stampede Broncos to finish another Super season 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -Joe He also set five Super Bowl By halftime it was 27-3 as 126-26 and became the sixth Super Bowls, Montana is 83 for Montana and the San Francisco career records, including his San Francisco was playing straight NFC team to win the 122 (68 percent) and 1,142 49ers proved Sunday that they third Super Bowl MVP award against the record book rather Super Bowl. yards. have just one competitor -his­and San Francisco's point total than the Broncos, who by then Along with the records came lie began with the 20-yarder 
tory. was the most ever. Montana were doing just the reverse -a milestone as George Seifert, Hice, then threw a 7-yarder to In the most dominant per­left the game with nearly 11 tying a Super Bowl record for who took over when Bill Walsh tight end Brent Jones and put formance ever at a Super Bowl, minutes to play. His final num­losses -0-4 -with the retired after last season, be­the game away with 34 seconds the 49ers routed the Denver bers: 22 of 29 passes for 297 Minnesota Vikings. With their came only the second rookie left in the half with a 38-yarder Broncos 55-10 to become the yards. third loss in four years, the coach to win a Super Bowl _ .. to Hice, last year's MVP, who first repeat NFL champion in a In four Super Bowls he has Broncos have now been Baltimore's Don McCafferty had 7 receptions for 148 yards. decade and tie the Pittsburgh thrown 11 touchdowns and no outscored 136-40. was the first in 1971. lie hit Rice again from 28 yards Steelers as a pinnacle of Super interceptions. San Francisco, meantime, From the moment Montana and John Taylor from 35 early Bowl perfection with four wins For Denver quarterback John was boringly perfect. The 49ers hit Rice with a 20-yard TD pass in the third quarfer to earn yet another spot in the record
in four tries. Elway, it was a day of futility, did even more than expected by 4:54 into the game, the outcome 
Montana had five touchdown ending with his third Super the experts who made them seemed a foregone conclusion. book. passes, .three to Jerry Rice, Bowl defeat. He missed eight of favorites by nearly two touch­Montana's final numbers set Fullback Tom Rathman also breaking a Super Bowl record his first 10 passes and was downs after a 14-2 season and career Super Bowl records for scored twice, on runs of 1 and for TD passes on a day on intercepted twice and fumbled a waltz through the playoffs. touchdown passes, com ple­4 yards. And Roger Craig had a 
... which he also set a record with once. His final numbers: 10 of The 49ers outscored their tions, yards, passing attempts 13 straight completions. 26 for 108 yards. three opponents in the playoffs and MVP awards. In his four see 49ERS I page 18 
Irish strike early and often, blow out Hurricanes 107-60 
Crawford is 

NO heats it up from the field; 
symbol for 

Miami suffers its coldest day 
student body 
By STEVE MEGARGEE at I0-6 on the ynar. thP 87-64 Associate Sports Editor Pmbarrassment against LSU a 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
wtwk ParliPr was only a mem­Wlwn Miami baskPtball coach ory. Bill Foster entPrPd tlw intervinw "That was the lowest this Irish fans had seen its like 
room aftt>r Saturday's game at tl'am's evPr been," Irish guard NotrP DamP. hP simply said and co-captain Joe Fredrick "lloly mackP.rel." and wrotn the said of the LSU game, the ntunbers "20" and "67" on a worst Notre Dame loss in ~~ight chalkboard. years. "We eitlwr could have 
lin couldn't havP summnd it thrown in the towel or started up any lwttnr. pulling together. Our backs 
With the Irish shooting 66 wnre so far against the wall, pPrcent in thn first half. while you knew we'd pull together. tlw llurrkanes wnrn connecting We kind of blew the first half of on just 7-of-35 attempts (20 the season, but it's not too late pPrcPntl from tlw field, Notre to get it all back." Dame rolled all over Miami In Saturday's contest, the 107-60. Hurricanes may as well have 
Tlw last time Notre Dame thrown in the towel after 10 had scored that many points or minutes. had bPatPn anybody by that After two baskets by Monty margin was during the 1985-86 Williams and one from ~cason. when thn Irish won LaPhonso Ellis put Notre Dame 126-?:l over a Miami team that ahead 6-0. Jake Morton made a had just rcinstatnd its pro­pair of free throws to make it gram. 6-2. 
"Our dnfnnsiv1~ pressure was The llurricanes (6-9) did not very good. we did the right seore again until more than five things on the boards to get the minutes into the game, when running gamn going and wn Morton hit a three-pointer for wnrc very aggressive," said the Hurricanes' first basket. By Irish coach Digg1~r Phelps. "We that time, the Irish led 16-5. nendnd to get home and gnt our "This shows us what we can
.•. 
confidence going." do and what we have to do," 
Notre Dame appears to have said Irish forward LaPhonso donn just that. Following Ellis, who had 1 0 points and six Saturday's annihilation at the .Ioyce ACC. which put the Irish see IRISH I page 13 before. 
The 107-60 romping of Notre Dame over Miami (Fla.) at the Joyce ACC on Saturday before 11,062 fans was your average one-sided affair. 
There were no heart-wrench­ing misses, no shots to beat the buzzer, no Dick Vitales droning on in irritating paroxysms, no intense rivalries, no rising tem­pers and no suspenseful time­outs called. 
It was almost nondescript. About the only anxiety in the air was whether the cheerlead­ers were going to fall on their heads while doing their acro­batic somersaults. 
The Irish seemed to do every­thing right: high shooting per­centage, dominating rebound­ing, effective defense and equitable scoring distribution. The game was a study in how the Irish could play a com­manding 40 minutes of basket­
,~t ~:;_ ball. 
Consider the evaluation by 
-~,,. 

9ill Foster, Miami's head 
coach: Elmer Bennett (12) splits Miami's Justin Caldwell (35 ) and Jerome "They're a much better club Scott (44). Bennett tallied 11 points and six assists in Notre Dame's 
see CRAWFORD I page 13107-60 victory over the Hurricanes on Saturday. 
Irish swimmers beat rival Bonnies 
Men's, women's teams take two meets during weekend 
By JANICE ARCHER accept responsibility for them. I the event with a time of Sports Writer sincerely regret what hap­3:31.83, the fastest unshaved pened." time of the year. 
In their last home dual meets The high level at which both The women's team took Sat­of the season, the Notre Dame teams performed was clearly urday's meet against the Bon­men's and women's swim teams shown in the 1000-yard nies by the score of 175-116. emerged victorious against St. freestyle. New university Tanya Williams led the Irish Bonaventure and Western On­records were set for both with two lirst-place victories in tario this weekend. schools, as the race was de­the 100 freestyle and the 100 
The men's meet against St. cided by .18 of a second. Brian brnastroke, and Kim Steel cap­
Bonaventure ended in a score Hini, the second-place finisher, tured the 200 freestyle. Christy of 140-97. The victory avenged set the new time for the Irish at Moston won the 200 butterfly a lopsided Irish loss to the 9:39.92. in 2:17.37. 
Bonnies a year ago. "The kind of meet it has been "I was pleased with the way 
Tension rose during the con­for the past few years was our women's team swam," said test on Saturday because of a typilie<lby the excellence shown Welsh. "I was also impressed controversial false start called in the 1b00 free," Welsh said. "I with the spirit and discipline of in the 50-yard freestyle. A hope we can continue the series St. Bonaventure's team." swimmer from each team was at the highest levels of Sunday's meet against Cana­disqualified as a result of the achievement." dian visitor Western Ontario false start. In 8 of 11 events, the Irish resulted in confidence building 
"The excellence of the swim­swam their fastest times of the wins for Notre Dame. ming on both sides was dis­year. The 400-yard medley relay "This me<lt is always a very rupted by events that occurred team of John Godfrey, Tom friendly, spirited one," Welsh during the day," said Irish head Penn, Ed Broderick and Jim coach Tim Welsh. "As hosts, we Birmingham combined to win see SWIM I page 15 
.,. 
ND wins National Catholics 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team cruised to its third consecutive National Catholic Tournament cham­pionship last weekend at .John Carroll University in Cleveland. 
In the tournament, 142­pound senior Pat Boyd earned the 1OOth victory of his collegiate career. The All­American, named the tour­nament's outstanding wrestler, won the 142-pound bracket and was one of six Notre Dame winners for the weekend. 
Other individual winners for the Irish included 118­pound senior Andy Radenbaugh, 126-pound sophomore Marcus Gowens, 150-pound junior Todd Layton, 158-pound junior Todd Tomazic and 167­pound sophomore Mark Gerardi. 
Notre Dame managed to 

place all 10 of its wrestlers among the top four in their individual weight classes. 
The Irish have won the National Catholics four of the past live years. The last time the Irish did not win the title was in the 1986-87 sea­son, when Notre Dame fin­ished second to John Carroll, which perennially won the National Catholics before Notre Dame's emergence as a wrestling power. 
Boyd is one of seven 1 00­match winners at Notre Dame and the third to reach the plateau since Fran McCann arrived as the Irish head coach. Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser accomplished the feat last year. 
He earned his second tour­nament MVP award of the season. 
The Irish, who hold a 4-5 record in dual matches, next face Ohio State on Friday at the Joyce ACC. 
I "' 
L 





