1 
I 
1 
I 

VOL. XXIII NO. 45 MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND settles out-of­court with victim 
By KATE MANUEL agreement, made to the South News Writer Bend Tribune on Friday, the agreement between Wang's 
The University of Notre Dame parents and the University, has entered into an agreement which has admitted no fault or with the family of Zheng-de responsibility in the accident, Wang. a graduate student in­will not affect the family's abil­jured last fall in a hit-and-run ity to sue the driver in the hit­accident while walking along and-run accident. Notre Dame Avenue south of The driver of the car that the Morris Inn. struck Wang is alleged to be a 
According to the terms of the priest from the Newark, New agreement. the University will Jersey, diocese who was in pay nearly $100,00 in expenses town to view a home football for Wang's family, in exchange game. for his parents signing an St. Joseph County Probate agreement stating that the fam­.Judge Peter Nemeth approved ily will neither file suit nor take the agreement Friday morning. legal action against the Details of the agreement were University. finalized last Wednesday after 
Notre Dame will pay $350 per two to three weeks of negotia­day for seven months, or up to tions, according to another $75,000 total, for Wang's comment made by Reinke to treatment at Healthwin the South Bend Tribune. llospital. where he will undergo Court approval of the agree­intensive therapy for head in­ment was necessary in order 
juries. Wang was moved from not to jeopardize the Medicaid the St. .Joseph Medical Center to benefits Wang has been receiv­llealthwin at the end of last ing since the accident, said week. Philip Faccenda, general coun­
The University will also con­sel of the University, in the tinue to pay $550 per month in same South Bend Tribune arti­housing for Wang's parents for cle. In a new outburst of called into combat. The prime minister, Yasuhiro 
seven more months. At present, Court approval was also re­belligerence. Iraq said Sunday presidents of Egypt and Nakasone, met with Saddam his father, Guo Ton Wang, and quired because Wang's parents it was ready to fight a France expressed hopes that -and said the Iraqi president his mother, Xue Ying Wu, are were acting on behalf of their "dangerous war" rather than economic pressure rather had demonstrated "great living at St. Paul's Retirement son, who still remains impaired ever give up Kuwait. One than military might could earnestness and seriousness" Community, but they may move from his injuries in the acci­European official warned that force Iraq out of Kuwait. about seeking peace. dent. divisions over the hostage Meanwhile, four American
closer to llealthwin if housing 
ean be found. Wang's health insurance ben­issue are endangering the ex-hostages were on their way Nakasone's visit, aimed at The final provision of the efits had expired a short time anti-Iraq alliance. home a day after being freed, winning the release of agmement ealls for Notre Dame before the accident without his "Iraq is not going to negoti­and fifteen Europeans arrived Japanese hostages, comes as 
ate on Kuwait," Iraq's infor­in Jordan after being released Japanese lawmakers areto provide a sum of $15,000 for knowing it, according to Dennis 
the family's return to China. Moore, associate director of mation minister, Latif Jassim, by the Iraqis. They were considering a plan to send The University paid for Wang's Public Relations and told a news conference in among thousands of troops to the gulf to join the 
Baghdad. He insisted Iraq's multinational force arrayed
parents to fly here from China Information. He said, "He had foreigners were trapped in 
annexation of Kuwait, which it Iraq and Kuwait when against Saddam.
shortly after the accident last had insurance in the two years fall. before, then came the tragedy overran three months ago, Saddam Hussein's troops took The troop-deployment pro­
The amount paid by Notre when it would have been would stand. over the emirate Aug. 2. posal has drawn strong criti­Dame under this agreement important to have it." The first POWs of the Persian cism from those who say it will be in addition to the Wang's accident has directly "We are going to defend our Gulf crisis -three French sol­would violate Japan's postwar 
proceeds, which themselves prompted a change in the uni­19th province on any diers -had a homecoming of peace constitution, even exceed $100,000, raised by a versity's policy on insurance condition, even if we have to their own in Paris on Sunday, though the troops would be 
special edition T-shirt sold for coverage for foreign students, fight a dangerous war," he but it wasn't exactly a hero's confined to non-combat roles. 
the Notre Dame-Miami game. according to Moore. "The way said, referring to Kuwait. welcome. French officials Iraq's official news agency According to comments by the program is administered Iraq also said it was have said the soldiers, who said Nakasone had told Sad­recalling an unspecified were captured last week, dam it was unlikely
William Reinke, a lawyer repre­number of retired army might have strayed into Iraqi lawmakers would approve the
senting Notre Dame in the 
see ZHENG I page 6 officers to active duty. territory, and that they proposal. Nakasone, speaking 
Secretary of State .James probably face punishment for to reporters, made no mention Baker visited U.S. troops in their carelessness. of such assurances, but the the Saudi desert earlier The new Iraqi vow to keep report underscored the way Sunday and said it was hard Kuwait at all costs came only the hostages can be used as to say whether they would be hours after a former Japanese leverage. 
Freshman Writing Program to be reviewed 
By SARAH VOIGT seven year cycle," Loux said. years. Originally, Freshman News Writer Chris Vanden Bossche, asso­Seminar was taught by profes­ciate professor of English and sors from all disciplines. Yet, 
A recently appointed commit­chair of the committee, plans to over the last twenty years it has tee of faculty members will examine how the writing skills come to be taught primarily by evaluate the twenty year old and needs of the students have Arts and Letters professors, Freshman Writing Program to changed over twenty years to Vanden Bossche said. determine how effectively its determine whether the curricu­"Freshman Seminar is not courses meet the needs of stu­lum needs to be altered. very popular with the students dents from all academic disci­"Studies have shown that our because they cannot choose plines. students' SAT scores have risen their topics. One suggestion 
Michael Loux, dean of Arts over the last twenty years. The that the Committee will con­and Letters, said that the study will try to determine the sider is to make the class more Committee on the Quality of right mix of analytical writing like the Arts and Letters Core Undergraduate Education sug­instruction and nuts and bolts course with a uniform book gested the formation of this grammar," Vanden Bossche list," said Vanden Bossche. new committee in a report last said. Another negative trend in the May. The new committee's re­Vanden Bossche added that program's evolution has been port is due to the Provost by the the committee also plans to re­the decrease in the number of end of the academic year. search whether the freshman full time faculty members 
"The Freshman Writing Pro­writing courses are in tune with teaching the course. Vanden gram has never been examined current theories of composition. Bossche estimated that full
The Observer I Macy Hueckel

Hacker's heaven closely since its inception However, the Freshman professors teach less than 30 twenty years ago. Other de­Writing Program has changed
Don Spicer, assistant Provost for University computing, cele­
partments are reviewed on a somewhat over the last twenty
brated the opening of computer labs in a computer fair last ni ht. 
see FRESHMAN I page 6 


The Observer I Macy Hueckel

Rising from the dead 

A Carroll Hall res~dent, posing as Dracula, ~as only one of the many attractions at the dorm's annual 
haunted house th1s past weekend. In many Instances, students used this once-a-year tradition for a lit­
tle pre-dance entertainment. 


Iraq is ready for a 'dangerous war' 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Media, politics make sleazy bedfellows 
By election day, North Carolina's Jesse Helms will have spent around $18 million to fight off the challenge for his cov­eted Senate seat. 
Experts estimate 

that Helms, and every Monica Vant 
other candidate this side of Mars, will Assoc. News Editor dump anywhere from one-half to two-thirds of their funds for ad­vertising, a fact that attaches the media to "trash politics" like a bow on a package that explodes in the public's face every time we turn on a television set or read a news­
paper. 
The role of the media in this circus goes as far back as the circus itself, with the the press sinking deeper into the slime every year. From the infamous "Daisy Girl" ad during the Goldwater campaign in '64 to the equally ridiculous "Chicken Across the Road" ad slamming John Hiler this year, candidates have all but mastered the art of using and abusing the television spot. 
This year has been particularly juicy, tele­vision ad-wise. The avid follower of local politics can't help but be angst-ridden over the abominable Joe Donnelly, who's being thrashed through the Midwest mud because he works in Chicago but runs for office in Indiana. 
That fact alone should convince us all to throw Donnelly to a pack of raging wolves, far far away from the State Senate seat he craves. Why? Television tells us so. 
The involvement of television goes beyond the paid advertisement. We're living in ~ videotropic world, where politics and teleVI­sion are tied in a knot in which both have "fallen and can't get up." 
Setting up candidates in staged situations for the networks is more than just a occa­sional activity of the political handler; its a full-time duty. You never know, that poignant shot of Tim Roemer getting cozy with the boys from the Local 101 just might get him the much-needed working class 
vote. 
Newspapers are far from exempt from the media's union with "trash politics," The Observer included. Just last week we ran two photos of George Bush schmoozing it up in Hawaii, as if his less-than attractive presence in a bathing suit is news. But the photographers are summoned, and the press receives this sort of visual bunk as the visual image the President of this country wants to be thought of as newsworthy. 
The media shows no signs of breaking free from the binds of sleazy politics, in part because of the American public. The prevailing disinterest in the issues and fas­cination with the facade has led people like former Reagan advisor Michael Deaver to conclude that in competition between the ear and the eye, ''the eye wins every time." So as voters head to the polls tomorrow, chances are they'll take with them a clearer picture of that damn chicken running across the road than the issue Hiler was supposedly so indecisive about. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  
Production  Ad Design  News  
Michelle Wood  Joy Harris  BradGalko  
Karen Newlove  Tony Paganelli  Kevaleen Ryan  
An~aCovelli  
Lisa Gunsorek  
Accent  
Shonda Wilson  
Paul Pearson  
Cristina Ortiz  
Circulation  Sports  Systems  
Bill O'Roukrke  Chris Cooney  Amalia Meier  
Matt Novak  Rene Ferran  Fritz Valsaint  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Monday, November 5, 1990
The Observer 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 5. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
40 
50 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
A 
~XXX~

® © ~~d ~ m ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's high: 48 Yesterday's low: 42 Nation's high: 88 
(Tampa, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -7 (Laramie, Wyo.) 
Forecast: 
Highs near 45 today with 
a 100 percent chance of 
rain. Cloudy and rainy 
tonight with lows in the 
mid 30s. Partly sunny 
and continued cool to­
morrow with highs around 
45. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 

Discerning life Decisions -is a discernment group for young women who would like to come together to share, pray and find their calling. For more informa­tion, call Sisters of Holy Cross membership office Monday -Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at 284-4466. Ask for Sistr Marilyn Zugush or Sister Patricia Riley. 
"Effective Interviewing Workshop" will be held today from 4 -5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked during an interview. The workshop is open to stu­dents of any major. 
The Sociology Club is sponsoring a career forum tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Pasquerilla Center (ROTC Building). All Arts and Letters majors are encouraged to attend. 
A workshop on "Assessing Alcohol Use: Trying to Keep the Good Times From Turning Bad" will be pre­sented by Len Hickman, Ph.D., Staff Psychologist, Univer­sity Counseling Center today at 6:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Information for preventing and identify­ing early alcohol abuse problems will be provided. 
USC Trip Meeting, for those who bought the pack­age trip, will be today at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 
Feminist Forum, a newly formed club, will hold an organizational meeting on today at 7 p.m. in Room 106, O'Shaughnessy. The club will focus on education and ac­tion. 
All students interested in discovering career op­portunities as educators with Teach for America are in­vited to attend a presentation by the group at 8 p.m. in Room 115, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Teach for America will also interview on campus this spring. This event is spon­sored by Career and Placement Services. 
The Semester Around the World informational meetings will be held at the Notre Dame Library Audito­rium tomorrow at 5:30 pm. and at the Chameleon Room at Saint Mary's Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. For more infor­mation, call Kelly at 284-5116. 
An organizational meeting will be held for Christmas Around the World '90 on Wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, second floor of LaFortune. For more information, call Karen or David at the Student Activities Office (239-7308). 
WORLD 

Pope John Paul II on sunday beatified two 19th century French and two Italian women who dedicated their lives to helping the poor. Among those honored by the pontiff in a ceremony in St. Peter's Basilica was Louise­Therese de Montaignac, who founded the Oblates of the Sacred Heart. The 


church credits her with the miraculous healing of a young railway worker from Toulouse who 
-was in a coma. The other Frenchwoman beatified was Marthe Aimee Le Bouteiller, the daughter of a poor farmer who became a nun. Her intercession was credited for the return to health of an English nun in Sister Marthe's religious institute. 
A bomb exploded at a German restaurant in Vina del Mar, Chile, injuring three sailors from the U.S. aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln and five other people, police and the U.S. Navy said Sunday. No group claimed responsibility for the bombing, which occurred shortly be­fore midnight Saturday, according to police in Vina del Mar, 180 miles west of Santiago. Two of the sailors were treated at a local hospital and released, while the third was treated on board the Abraham Lincoln, said Navy Cmdr. Stephen Honda in Norfolk, Va .. Injuries were lim­ited to cuts and bruises caused by flying glass and other debris, Honda said. About 40 people were in the restau­rant, the Max Moritz, when the bomb went off. They in­cluded a group of sailors from the Nimitz-class aircraft 
carrier. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 


Republican candidate for Secretary of State, William Hudnut demanded Sunday that his Democratic opponent stop running public ser­vice spots which promote the services of the Se­curities Division in the Secretary of State's Office-. Incumbent Joseph Hogsett is trying to use the spots to influence voters, Hudnut said. "T?is is a thinly-disguised attempt to sway voters wtth ads that are deceptive and questionable," Hudnut 
NYSE Index

said. "My opponent is using government ~ollars 
170.07 • 2.48

to promote his political campaign, a practice that 
S&P Composite

as a taxpayer I find revolting and offensive." 
311.85 .. 4.83

Hogsett spokesman John Ohmer denied the 
Dow Jones Industrials 

charges, saying the money to produce the spots 
2,490.84 ..35.89 
came from fines collected by the Securities Divi­sion, and that no tax dollars were used. 
Precious Metals Gold ~ $5.30 to $377.80/oz. 
Sliver .. 7.1¢ to $4.185/oz. 
0 0

-~ .. : .0 ,) •· "" .. ,. .. ,. .., -.. _. • 4 ... r r • -.. • • • 1 • • * • ' ,.. 'J •· .. • -' 
ALMANAC 
On November 5: 

eln 1914: Britain, France, and 
Russia declared war on Turkey, and 
Britain annexed Cyprus. 

eln 1921: Outer Mongolia signed and accord with Russian to protect against a Japanese or Chinese invasion. 
eln 1940: President Roosevelt became the first man in history to be re-elected for a third term, over the Republican candidate Wendell Willkie. 
eln 1966: Florence's cathedral II Duomo was damaged, along with many of its art treasures, after days of storms and violent rain hit Italy. 
eln 1979: Cartoonist AI Capp, who worked on strips like "Li'l Abner" and "Joe Palooka," died at the age of 
70. 
• • • t. .... • • 00. * ., • • • • • • • r • ~ • • • I • 

Monday, November 5, 1990 


Tribute for grieving widow 
APPhoto Vicki Lynn Reid, widow of Air Force Capt. Fred Reid who died on a plane crash in Saudi Arabia, receives an American Flag during a burial ceremony in Camp Hill, Pa. on Thursday. 
Minnesota Bus at Thanksgiving and Christmas 
Leaves November 21 and December 21 
Parents contact Carol at American Group Tours at (612) 452-4679 for Registration 

r;a.;.~)IX!~~a.<:,..Z'i"'!W(_U_:1""7_,~--.f 


~ ~SCHWINN @ I., 
:  ~  kp.  CYCLING  ~  
~  and  ·  
FITNESS  
• SALES •  SERVICE • CLOTHING  
EXERCISERS • ACCESSORIES  
,I . .I  BIKES STORED & BOXED. STUDENT DISCOUNT ON KRIPTONITE LOCKS. CLOSED SUNDAY &: MONDAY ~ 135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH • CIC . SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 3835 UNCOLNWAY EAST 

. (219)277-8866. . MISHA.. WAKA, IN 46544. 
ROSELAND (219)259-4862

I
~-·~~·~~!iiiK~~,.-.:~;:..-.::~~,:;. 
I 
~ 
!I 
.. 
page 3
The Observer 

Notre Dame hosts seminar on homophobia 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON News Writer 
The most important means of dispelling homophobia is edu­cation, according to Sister Jeannine Gramick, editor of a book on homosexual clergy. 
Lesbian and gay individuals also need to start coming out, so that others may see that homosexuals are normal peo­ple, she added. 
Gramick is conducting a seminar today along with Fa­ther Robert Nugent, the author of a book of prayer for people with AIDS. The seminar is enti­tled ".Homophobia in Religion and Society." 
The two travel throughout 
Indiana and Michigan conduct­ing seminars sponsored by the New York based Center for Homophobia Education. "The seminar is in line with the com­passionate teachings of the Catholic Church," said Gramick. "Many bishops have attended." 
Gramick says that the Church teaches respect for fellow hu­man beings, but that "we don't always practice what we preach." The seminar is not without opposition. Gramick said that there were fewer par­ticipants in the Kalamazoo seminar because a letter had been distributed throughout the local parishes discouraging people from attending. 
"So far, more nuns than priests have been attending the seminars," Gramick noted. She cited this as evidence support­ing a study which found men to be much more homophobic than women. 
Gramick and Nugent do not advocate specific political legis­lation in their seminars. Rather, Gramick said that the goal of the seminar is to "help people to consider the gospel and how to treat others in its light." 
Of those who have already at­
tended seminars, Gramick said, 
"Their heads and hearts were 
touched." 
Today's seminar will be held 
at the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
beginning at 8:30 a.m. and 
lasting until 3:30p.m. 

Candlelight service held for soldiers in the Gulf 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 

A "Light a Candle of Hope" Ceremony was held Sunday for military families with service members presently in Saudi Arabia or on their way to the region. 
The cereinony was a symbolic gesture to promote military family strength and unity in the Indiana and nearby Michigan communities, said Frances Anastasio Quirk, public rela­tions director for the American Red Cross, co-sponsor of the event. 
"The families are just as much members of the military as those in uniforms," said Colonel Hemphill, a 25-year military serviceman from the local area. 
A symbolic candle was lit and names of all service members were read off while family members signed a large sea­sonal holiday collage and group letter. 
The event was also sponsored by the "Just Kuwaiting" support group. Founded by Starr Williams and Kay Ellis, current military mothers, in August, the group members wish to send a videotape of this event to sym­bolize their hope that their loved ones overseas will have a safe and happy Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
"Aside from ditty bags and cookies being sent, the group felt a need to send a little bit of home to local guys and gals of theirs who will miss the holiday season with them," said Williams. 
This was the largest gather­ing of military family members in the area to date, according to Mark Kelley of WNDU News. Membership in the group is open to all relatives of military personnel in Saudi Arabia. Cur­rently there are seventy people in the group that attend the monthly meetings. 
WNDU has offered a compli­mentary copy of the roll call and WNDU NewsCenter 16 cov­erage of the "Light A Candle of Hope" Ceremony to members of the group. 


New director of campus ministry named 
Special to the Observer 

Brother Raphael Wilson, president of Holy Cross College, announced the appointment of Father Richard Conyers to di­rector of Campus Ministry for the remainder of the 1990/1991 academic year. 
Conyers' responsibilities will include offering services re­sponding to the spiritual and 


moral needs of the student body 
Father Richard Conyers

and encouraging the spiritual development and growth in the Likewise, he is expected to Christian tradition of the stu­
develop opportunities for Chris-

dents. 
tian service and social action 
r------------------=~~~~~~~~~ >>> IL @ ~ iJ <<< Bracelet made of gold letters which spell 
LOVE YOU 
Also engraved with name & date Obvious sentimental value 
REWARD 
288-7976 


CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
INVITES 
for the students and to serve as a resource person for faculty and staff on topics of religious concern. 
In addition, Conyers will con­tinue to teach classes in art tradition and religious studies. 
Conyers has been a member of the Holy Cross College faculty since 1989. Prior to that time, he has served as a Pastoral 
Associate at Little Flower 
Parish and Christ the King Parish in South Bend and as a Residence Director at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 





''0'.'M•~,,, 
Give to the United Way. 
" 

GRADUATE STUDENTS, UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, 
* INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS and 
* 

MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME FAMILY 
* 
*

to STEAMBOAT, LORADO
Join us every Tuesday night 
* 

at 7:00p.m. Fri. Jan. 4 .. Sun. Jan. 13 
for an hour of * 
$420 • Transportation via bus 
Ecumenical Bible Study * 
* 



ND/SMC SKI CLUB 
* 


PRESENTS: 
* 
* 
ALL 
* 

• 7 nights lodging on the mountain 
in the Conference Room of Campus Ministry 
• 6 day lift pass 
Badin Hall 
*
• 
2 group parties 

• 
BBQ on the mountain 


* 

For additional information, call • 2 free races * Fr. AI D'Aionzo, CSC, Director B.Y.O.B. Informational Meeting/ Last Sign Ups Monday Nov. 5 
* 

239-6633 or 239-5955 (Bring Your Own Bible) 8:00pm Nieuwland Science Building rm. 127 
* 

Questions· Call: Bob 283-3588 or Chris 283-1606 
* 
* 

~--------------------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, November 5, 1990 
Iranians burn U.S. flag, recall embassy siege 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Hundreds of Iranians chanting "Death to America!" burned the American flag at a rally Sunday in front of the former 
U.S. Embassy in Tehran to mark the 11th anniversary of its takeover by militant stu­dents. 
Tehran television, monitored in Nicosia, showed a large crowd carrying signs proclaiming "Death to America," "Death to Israel," and "Death to Britain." 
Young men and women, in­cluding university students, converged on the rally site from all parts of the capital, the television said. 
Musavi Khoeniha, the former prosecutor who was the mentor of the militant students who stormed the embassy 11 years ago, read a half-hour message from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader. 
Khamenei's message urged the country's feuding radical and so-called pragmatic fac­tions to stop their infighting and remain united. 
Parliament Speaker Mehdi Karrubi, a hard-line opponent of Khamenei, then addressed the crowd, warning against the U.S. presence in the Persian Gulf. 
He said that "the capture of the U.S. nest of spies in Iran, guaranteed the future of the revolution, and disrupted America's spying machinery." 

ICE WALKER CLEATS 
EASY SLIP ON·OFF FOR CASUAL SHOES OR BOOTS PERFECT FOR ICY SIDEWALKS 
No one wanls lo suffer the pain, loss of moblllly and Doclor bills lhal can result from a fall on ice. These uniquely designed cleats are the safe & economical answer: Ice gripping heel & toe plales wllh serra11ons atlached by a rubber slrap lhat stays rlexlble In cold 
weather 
Send $19.95 • $3 00 s&h to Non Slip Product•. 19205 W. Clarendon Ave Litchfield Park. AZ 85340 PieRs~ 
St>«ify ahoe or boot size Allow 2·3 woeks for delivery 

Maple Lane Barber,Shop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 

~llalr('uttingCo. 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE RD .• MISHAWAKA 
277-79-46 
Oaily9-8 
Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11-5 

None of Iran's high-ranking leaders showed up at the rally, which commemorates what is considered a turning point in the history of the 1979 revolution. 
President Hashemi Rafsanjani has been trying to temper the revolution since the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in June 1989. 
Rafsanjani has been engaged in efforts to sideline Khomeini's hard-line, anti­Western followers, and rebuild relations with the West to attract investment and advanced technology. 
The radicals accuse Rafsan­jani, and Khamenei, his politi­cal ally, of straying from Khomeini's anti-Western le­gacy. Both leaders deny that this is true. 
Rafsanjani said in speech to students from around the country Sunday that "with the capture of the American nest 
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari waves to the crowd in Mexico City during a parade after his 
of spies, documents revealing 
second state-of-the-nation speech where he declared an end to the economic crisis in Mexico.
American plots against the revolution were divulged." 


PERSIAN GULF TEACH-IN 6:30-7:30 pm 
Nov. 5, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, SMC Panel discussion: Background of the region and the events leading up to the current crisis 
Professor Khalil Matta, Management, ND 

Mary Johlie, Peacemaker Student, SMC 
Nov. 6, Haggar Parlor, Haggar Student Center, SMC Panel discussion: Oil, energy, and economic consequences of the crisis. Professor Joseph Miller, Psychology, SMC Professor Jurgen Brauer, Economics, SMC 
Nov. 7, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, SMC Panel discussion: Alternative solutions and a women's perspective on the crisis. Professor David Cortright, Peace Studies, ND Professor Ann Clark, Philosophy, SMC Patricia Washington, MINT Director, SMC 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Peacemakers and the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns 
Monday, November 5, 1990 

Students may be considered snobbish 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR News Writer 
According to television critic Robert Thompson, much of what makes us students is re­garded as snobbish by the American public. 
Most intelligent people don't necessarily feel superior to ev­eryone else, Thompson said, but "lofty goals often make you a part of some elite, intellectual group." Often as a response to motivation "you will become snobs in others' eyes." 
"The over-educated are held in a suspicious fashion," said Thompson, associate professor of communications at the State University of New York-Cort­land, in a lecture at Saint Mary's. lie supported his claim with illustrations that preten­tiousness runs rampant among educated people. 
Thompson himself has admit­ted to "putting on airs" when he is out of his element, thus fueling the snob image. He said he is guilty of acting like he knows about cars when he's getting his serviced so that the mechanics won't fix something that isn't broken. 
Thompson said that preten­sion goes beyond the garage in that "professors and intellectu­als act differently around the working class. We are a country of action over words." 
Although intellect is a desired trait, "I would have traded in my National Honor Society pin for an effective zit cream," Thompson joked. 
Television reflects how the unpretentious and often illiter­ate are our heroes. "In the popular show 'Cheers,' Diane is the epitome of snobbishness. She is the butt of jokes, the fall guy for the straightmen. Who is the barfly, loser type who ev­eryone loves?" Thompson asked. 
The audience responded in a "Norm!" chorus not unlike the familiar one on the show. 
Thompson cited characters from Dirty Harry, The Beverly Hillbillies, and Flashdance who use small words and the most popular Rambo and Rocky who uses "sub-syllables-Yo!" These heroes have qualities other than intelligence that our soci­ety idealizes. 
The portrait of pretension is "embodied in how you drink tea, English-style with the pinkie in the air," Thompson said. By contrast, his supreme example of unaffected behavior is Animal House, the film that made "'party a verb." 
Thompson showed a clip from Animal House that played what he calls the "Anti-Core song," in reference to the many classes students are required to take throughout their academic careers. When the artist Meat­loaf appears in the movie stuff­ing his face and shopping, lyrics like "Don't know much about biology..." suggest that his intellectual faculties are not all there. Yet this character with the "Anti-Core" image is the hero of the movie. 
Thompson's lecture was entitled "Nerds and Snobs: Belletristic and Apartheid and the Study of Television." 

rlheRice 
LTniversity 
Pt1blishing 


llrogram 


The Rice University Publishing Program, July 8-August 2, 1991, is designed to develop talent, skills and career opportuni­ties for persons interested in book and magazine publishing. The program is designed for students who will be entering their senior year in 1991 and for college graduates. Although participants come from all disciplines, the program has been of particular value to students in English and other Humanities, Journalism, Art, Social Sciences and Business. 
The roster of guest lecturers includes more than 35 top professionals in editing, graphics, marketing and production from throughout the country. 
For more information, contact the Office of Continuing Studies, Rice University, P.O. Box 1892, Houston, Texas 77251-1892. Telephone (713) 520-6022 or 527-4803. 
The Observer page 5 



AP Photo

Needlepointing nurses 
U.S. Navy nurse Lt. Cmdr. Susan Defendy (right) and hospital corpsman Dawn Cash, both of Portsmouth, Va., do needlepoint during a slow moment at the U.S. Navy Fleet Hospital in Saudi Arabia Thursday. The facilit is set up with 500 beds to handle an kind of emergency. 
Cuba discussed at weekend symposium 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI News Writer 
The Cuban Labor Law, U .S./Cuban relations, the Cuban judicial system and constitu­tional idealism were among the issues discussed this weekend at a symposium on the restoration of legal order in Cuba. 
Also presented were views on private property in Cuba, the legal profession and Cuban me­dia today. 
Speaking specifically on the future of Cuba was Luis Aguilar Leon, professor of Latin Ameri­can government at Georgetown University. According to Leon, "No legal system is going to 



'~.' ,,,
T~h•~
Give to the United Way.
., 

work without the backing of justice." 
The "pre-Castro Catholic morale" that once existed within the country has largely diminished. As a result, there has been an expanded cynicism among the people, said Leon, and, in the future, "(only) if ethic is high, then laws will be few." 
Leon sees the Catholic Church as a potential source of this ethic. 
"There is no [longer) religious guidance since the collapse of the Marxist ethic and we need that confidence in the people for a constitution and laws," said Leon. 
On the contrary, Leon sees the current situation as "people pretending to be a revolution­ary, a socialist -anything to survive." 
Also stressing the importance of Catholicism was Xavier Suarez, the mayor of Miami, saying "a new Cuba must be built on the foundations of the Catholic Church." He also said that Cuba must learn by exam­ple from the United States in the reconstruction of its coun­try. 
According to Suarez, "those in Cuba are subject to an excess of compelled order and are fighting three decades of op­pression." However, with fur­ther work in labor unions, and the development of religious freedom, "Cuba can be a ra­cially, economically, and so­cially changed place starting with the attitudes of the peo­ple." 
Also in order for this change to take place, "positive rights and a decent standard of living must be added with basic free­doms," said Suarez. 
The conference was given by the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates and held at the Notre Dame Law School. Key speakers were Suarez, Jose Serrano, former U.N. Ambas­sador to the United Nations, and Bishop Agustin Roman of the Archdiocese of Miami. 
:---------------------------------------20% Discount : : TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : 
I I 
-------~-----------------------------­
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
~ ~ 
==---­=
--~ -­
~ 

Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder
1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates
North of McDonald's 277-1161 



FLAG FOOTBALL 
DRIVE TO CURE PARALYSIS 
GAMES PLAYED FRIDAY-SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9-11 AT THE LOFTUS CENTER MEN'S, WOMEN'S & CO-REC DIVISIONS $25.00 ENTRY FEE 
• 

ALL PROCEEDS WILL BE DONATED TO THE MIAMI PROJECT SPONSORED BY NVA 
8W
TEAM ENTRIES ACCEPTED THROUGH NOVEMBER 5 
--~­

page 6 
Freshman 
continued from page 1 
percent of the Freshman Semi­
nar sections. Most are now 
taught by teaching assistants 
and adjunct professors. 
Vanden Bossche explained 
that the number of students in 
the College of Arts and Letters 
has doubled over the last ten 
years. Consequently, the de­
partments in the College can 
spare fewer full time faculty 
members away from 400 level 
classes to teach the freshman 
classes. 
Six of the seven members of 
the Committee to Evaluate the 
Freshman Writing Program are 
professors from different de­
partments within the College of 
Arts and Letters. The other 
member, Mark Herro, is an as­
sociate professor of electrical 
engineering. Scott Boehnen, 
sophomore in the College of 
Arts and Letters, is the only 
student on the Committee 
which will meet bimonthly. 
All of the professors in the 
Committee have taught Fresh­
man Seminar. Based on his ex­
perience teaching this class, 
Vanden Bossche commented, 
"I've found that our students' 
basic writing skills are pretty 
good. But they can't use writing 
to develop an argument and to 
work through an analytical 
problem. I'd like to see more 
emphasis in that area." 
Freshman Seminar and Com­
position and Literature are the 
only courses at the University 
specifically required by all 
freshmen regardless of their in­
tended area of study. 

Zheng 
continued from page 1 
has changed because of this. It used to be the initiative of stu­dents to get insurance and prove they have it," he said. 
There were problems with this system, however, according to Moore. First was "the sheer logistics of the program -de­termining did everyone have in­surance and keep it up." Also, students from countries with socialized medicine often failed to see the need for such a pro­gram and resisted getting in­surance coverage. 
Under the new system, the university enrolls all foreign students in an insurance pro­gram provided by the univer­sity, but students who have or want to get their own insurance policy may do so provided they show written proof, according to Moore. He said, "There would obviously be one way to make sure that no student ever had this happen to them again." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this story. 

1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago. IL 60610 
312-951-0585 _____. 

~--------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1990 

Armenian-Azerbaijani political fight continues 
ERASKH, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­Edik Badalian, a fatigue-clad guerrilla in the mountains of Armenia, raised his 1905 vin­tage carbine and squeezed off a shot at an imaginary invader from the neighboring Soviet republic of Azerbaijan. 
"We usually carry hunting rifles. But we have what we need," said Badalian, 38, who also wore a pistol. Members of his eight-man unit showed off a handmade mortar and rocket-propelled grenade launchers, and said they had automatic weapons hidden in the hills. 
"We station ourselves around farms and settlements to protect them against Azerbaijanis," said Badalian, who works as a construction engineer by day and patrols by night. 
A few miles away, Soviet troops did sentry duty on the rugged border between Arme­nia and Azerbaijan, the scene of ethnic clashes for two years. 
The sealed frontier between the two republics symbolizes the political violence that is rising in distant corners of the Soviet Union as the Kremlin's political authority falls. 
Last week, two Armenian shepherds were killed on the border and Armenian guerrillas briefly took four Soviet soldiers hostage in retaliation for the detention of several local residents in the embattled enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. 
At least three separatists were killed Friday in ethnic strife in the southeastern re­public of Moldavia. 
In the Caucasian republic of Georgia, a politician was shot in the arm two days before balloting on Oct. 28. 
Over the past 18 months, violence also has struck along the border between Uzbekistan and Kirgizia, the Fergana Valley of Uzbekistan, the Georgian capital of Tbilisi and the Abkhazian section of Georgia. 
The fighting has helped keep alive rumors that the military and KGB security police might be plotting to crack down against the disorder that has accompanied the reforms of President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
One rumor depicts Gorbachev as the leader of the crackdown, another as its victim. 
In Armenia and Georgia, where passions are running high, people accuse Gorbachev of trying inflame rather than quell the violence. 
"The Kremlin is creating an­other Lebanon in the Caucasus. They want to create the illusion that the Caucasians are fighting among themselves, and that the Russians must go in and restore order," said Zviad Gamsakhurdia, who is emerging as the dominant politician in Georgia. 
Soviet central authorities have balked at open interven­tion in Georgia since April 9, 1989, when army paratroopers used sharpened shovels to disperse a peaceful rally in Tbilisi, killing 19. 
The incident sent shock waves through the entire Soviet Union, and shoved Georgia firmly toward a declaration of independence. 
That momentum was evident in balloting last week as Gamsakhurdia's Round Table non-Communist bloc won control of the Georgian Supreme Soviet legislature on a platform of independence and capitalism. 
The voting was peaceful, the campaign at times violent. Two days before the election, Gamsakhurdia's rival, Georgi Chanturia, was shot in the arm. 
Chanturia accused Gam­sakhurdia of arranging the shooting on orders from the KGB. Gamsakhurdia retorted that Chanturia either staged the event or was shot by central authorities seeking to spark civil war. 
The situation is just as murky in Moldavia. There, the legislature has declared sovereignty from Moscow and talking of reunifying with neighboring Romania, from which it was separated in World War II. 
But ethnic Russians and Ukrainians have declared their own "Dniester republic" in eastern Moldavia, and the Gagauz -a group of Christian Turks -have proclaimed independence in southern Moldavia. 
Rest in peace 
Navy servicemen carry the flag drafted casket of one of their own past a Marine and Navy color guard during ceremonies held for the servicemen who lost their lives in the USS lwo Jim a. 

is currently looking for interested people to fill the following paid position: 


Typesetter 
for the late shift on Wednesdays 
Computer experience is necessary, preferrably on the Macintosh. If interested, contact Bernard Brenninkmeyer at The Observer office at 
239-5303 




RememberTo Vote 
Tuesday, November 6, 1990 
6:00 am -6:00pm 
ON-CAMPUS STUDENTS Consult voter registration card for township. All on-campus students vote at one of three places. 
Portage 1  Portage 1 B  Clay  
vote in CCE Rm 100  vote in CCE Rm 104  vote at Little Flower Church  
54191 N. Ironwood Dr.  
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS  

Consult voter registration card for district and precinct. "Notice ofVoting Places" chart posted in Huddle 
•
~TUDENT 
UfliiiiiT

Sample ballots on display in Huddle. 
------------------~--------------------~----------~------------------~----------­Monday, November 5, 1990 The Observer page 7 

On the table near Packwood is a document printed with "<?P:;.t;,::io.:..:.n-=2::..."_________________. 
HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT UNNERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF 
Hungary plans to join the Council of Europe 
STRASBOURG, France (AP) -Hungary plans to join the Council of Europe on Tuesday, the first of several former Communist bloc nations ex­pected to gain membership in the oldest postwar body pro­moting European cooperation. 
Hungary will seal its mem­bership by signing the council's human rights treaty at a ceremony in Rome. 
The 1950 treaty established the European Court of Human Rights, which has heard more than 15,000 such cases from the 23 present council mem­bers. 
The rights treaty is one of 130 international conventions -ranging from computer data protection to anti­terrorism measures -that Council of Europe nations have signed to date. 
Other East European nations are expected to gain admittance next year as the 41-year-old council expands its role with Europe emerging from the Cold War. 
Czechoslovakia, Poland, the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia have been given observer 
AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 
B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over 1 ,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'II have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACfLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional growth through dividends. CREF's 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 
investment accounts, each managed 
with the long-term perspective essen­
tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account 
The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account 
The CREF Social Choice Account 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 10 FIND OUT MORE Our experienced retirement counselors will be happy to answer your questions 
and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage some $85 billion in assets. 

• 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it. sm 


For more complete intormation, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
\atHIII.ill kadquarll'r~ I'iO l'aularinn .\n· . Suitt· lllO Costa ~ksa. C:\ '!262h "II ~'i"'-25)" 1-HOO·H 1·2.~.~., 
----------~--­
~--------~~ --~ 
The Observer 

page 8 
Former slave exhumed 
APPhoto 

Workers unearth the remains of former slave, Pierre Toussaint, who is the first black proposed for sainthood. Toussaint is considered the founder of Catholic Charities because he helped the needy for 66 years before formal services for aid existed. 


Strike continues with more arrests made 
NEW YORK (AP) -The strike-bound Daily News trudged ahead Sunda~ handing out free samples and using "hawkers" to sell papers where vendors feared union intimidation. 
But spokeswoman Lisa Robinson would not say how many papers were printed, distributed or sold. 
Vendors at 10 midtown Manhattan newsstands chosen at random Sunday said they had no Daily News; many said they hadn't seen the paper in several days. 
"We're still publishing," said Robinson. "We're still seeing gaps in distribution. Many, many people support us. Some people don't." 
Talks have been fruitless since they began in January over contracts that expired in March. The unions charge un­fair labor practices. 
How to start your lawcareer 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~{e~ 
\.."='t"-~ o~'­
"Jo ~:;,O 
\\ \ '\.'I> 



fKAPLAN
\ 'J,. t:;,'-'3-( 

STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD.
c\'3-9 

DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IINI 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 
The News was struck by eight of its 10 unions on Oct. 25, with the Newspaper Guild joining the strike the next day. Members of the Typographical Union have continued working because they have guaranteed lifetime jobs. 
---~-~------------------~---------------, 
Monday, November 5, 1990 

Soviets flock to Red Square for blessing ceremony 
MOSCOW (AP) -More than 2,000 people pushed past police in Red Square on Sunday to pray and watch the blessing of a cornerstone for a cathedral to be built on the site of a 17th century church razed by Stalin. 
The event took place under the stony gaze of a three-story portrait of Communist leader Vladimir Lenin erected for Wednesday's Revolution Day parade. 
Dozens of priests in sky-blue robes carried gold icons marched with Russian Ortho­dox Church Patriarch Alexi II of Moscow across the square and past the Lenin mausoleum. 
Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin and 
. 

Moscow Mayor Gavriil Popov held candles as the patriarch consecrated the cornerstone with holy water. The Cathedral of Our Lady of Kazan is expected to be completed in two years. 
The original cathedral, built in 1630 under Czar Mikhail Romanov, was destroyed in the 1930s by Josef Stalin. It was replaced by a summer cafe and later a public toilet. 
The patriarch held a service in Uspensky Cathedral inside the Kremlin to celebrate the feast day of Our Lady of Kazan. 
Scores of worshipers who shielded flickering candles in their hands marched through the Spassky Gate as bells pealed in the square. 
1991 Liberal Arts and Sciences Graduates: 
aspecial announcement concerning careers in business specifically for Liberal Arts and Sciences students. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious liberal arts and sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. This highly competitive program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms and is restricted to students sponsored by the 
participating firms. 
The PMSA program begins in June 1991. 
Recruiting for the program is currently in 
progress. 
Ask About Our ''WINTERVIEWS'' Recruiting Event December 27, 1990 in Chicago 

The 15-month program entails: 
• 
immediate (June 1991) employment in the Chicago office of asponsoring accounting firm. 

• 
an accelerated course of study in business and accounting at Chicago's DePaul University. 


Successful completion of the DePaul PMSA program results in: 
• 
Amaster of science in accountancy degree from the Graduate School of Business of DePaul University 

• 
Full-time business and accounting experience with amajor accounting firm 

• 
Eligibility to sit for the C.P.A. examination in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities and advancement in professional accounting with your sponsoring firm. 


DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 
~ 
For more information on the PMSA program, contact your placement office or Mr. Terry A. Baker, Coordinator, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 362-8770. 

Monday, November 5, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
Report: Noriega aide in new government 
NEW YORK (AP) -A ruth­tained in classified U.S. Army messages to his supporters in less former aide to deposed documents obtained by the which he discussed how to Panamanian leader Manuel newspaper -is fueling destabilize the new Noriega has planted his own concern in Washington that government, according to the men in the new Panamanian Panamanian President newspaper. security force to destabilize Guillermo Endara has been Suspicions about a potential the U.S.-backed government, unable to establish full control insurgency in Panama focus according to a newspaper of the nation, the newspaper on Capt. Asuncion Eliezer report. said. Gaitan, the paper said. He is a 
The report in Sunday's edi­Panamanian officials have former Noriega aide who ticms of New York Newsday filed a $6.5 billion lawsuit headed a Cuban-supported quotes U.S. intelligence against Noriega, who is in a secret intelligence operation officers who debriefed federal prison outside Miami undetected by U.S. officials 
Get ready for the parade AP Photo
Noriega loyalists after the Dec. awaiting trial on drug conspir­before the Dec. 20 U.S. 
Soviet soldiers climb on tanks Thursday in preparation for
20, 1989, U.S. invasion of acy charges. invasion, Newsday said, 
November's military parade to mark the 73rd anniversary of the
Panama. The suit includes a report quoting the intelligence docu­
Bolshevik revolution.
Their information -con-that Noriega has sent coded ments. 



The Center for Social Concerns 
AP Photo

Morning duties 
Crewmen aboard the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga move gear across the ship's flight deck on a recent morning under the nose of a A-6 jet fighter. The Saratoga is operating in the Red Sea as a part of Operation Desert Shield. 
U.S. consulate attacked by leftist rebels in Peru's capital 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -Leftist rebels fired at least two rocket grenades at the U.S. consulate Sunday night, shattering dozens of windows, police said. No injuries were reported. 
Security forces held a brief shootout with the attackers, who escaped in a pickup truck. No arrests were made. 
The attack occurred at 7:50 
p.m. at the consulate offices in a residential neighborhood of Miraflores, an upper-class dis­trict of metropolitan Lima. 
Police said one grenade struck the outside wall of an apartment building next to the consulate. The other grenade apparently struck the front of the apartment building. 
The explosions shattered windows on the upper floors of the 12-story consulate, in the apartment building, and in nearby homes. But they caused little other damage, authorities said. 
The police did not say if they believed the attackers were Maoist Shining Path rebels or pro-Cuban Tupacamaru guer­rillas, the country's two leftist rebel groups. 
Almost 20,000 people have died in political violence since the Shining Path took up arms against the government 10 years ago. 

University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For Information: 239-5293) 
NOTE: Events will be held at the Center for Social Concerns, unless otherwise noted. 
(i,ulttlrml 
-~-WEEKOFNOV.5 
fi.ij!,:Qul.J Nov. 7-Wednesday 4:30pm. 
Nov. 8 -Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 
Nov. 8-Thursday 4:30pm. 
Nov. 9-Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m. 
Nov. 13-Tuesday 
Nov. 15 -Thursday 
through 
Nov. 17-Saturday 
Nov. 17-Saturday 1:45-3:45 p.m. 
Nov. 21-Wednesday 
Dec. 4 -Tuesday 7:30p.m. 
Dec. 6 -Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:00pm. 
Dec. 7 -Friday -~-w--12: 15-1:00 p.m. 

Nurture Life Through Service 
CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK (Next column) 
CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Women United for Justice and Peace 
CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Friday Forum for faculty and staff: "Are Women More Peaceful Than Men?"­Ka!hleen Maas Weigen (Theme: The Year of Women) 
Student Group Leaders Meeting 
IPSM Advisory Council (CCE) 
Center open prior to Penn State game 

THANKSGIVING Service Opponunities (to be announced) 
Summer Service Project Information Meeting 
Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of student participants in Mexico Seminar 
Friday Forum for faculty and staff: Report from The Ad Hoc Committee on Sexism & Racism at Notre Dame (Theme: The Year of Women) 
Week of Nov. 5 
•Nov. 5-6-7 ­
Nov. 5 -Monday 6:30-7:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge LeMans Hall Saint Mary's College 
Nov. 6 -Tuesday 6:30-7:30 p.m. Haggar Parlor Hagger Student Center SMC 
Nov. 7-Wednesday 6:30-7:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge LeMansHall SMC 

•Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Saint Mary's College Peacemakers 
Nov. 7-Wednesday 5:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 
Nov. 8 -Thursday 7:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 

CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK 
COME TO THE PERSIAN GULF TEACH-IN: THE FACTS ON THE MIDDLE EAST 
Panel discussion on the background of the region and the events leading up to the current crisis Panelists: Prof. Khalil Matta, Management, ND Presenting the background of the region 
Mary Johlie, Peacemaker Student, SMC Presenting a chronology of events leading up to crisis 
Panel discussion on the oil, energy, and economic consequences of the crisis Panelists: Prof. Joseph Miller, Psychology, SMC Presenting oil and energy consequences Prof. Jurgen Brauer, Economics, SMC Presenting the economic consequences 
Panel discussion on alternative solutions and a women's perspective on the crisis Panelists: Prof. David Conright, Peace Studies, ND 
Presenting alternative solutions Prof. Ann Clark, Philosophy, SMC Patricia Washington, MINT Director, SMC 
Presenting the women's perspective 
Philippine Dinner at the Center for Social Concerns  CSC  
All welcome -Proceeds to Philippine Relief  
Slide Presentation-"Sex and Violence for Sale: U.S.  CSC  
Military in the Philippines"  
(Co-sponsored with Overseas Development Network)  
Rosa Parks -A lecture  CCE  
(Reception will follow)  Auditorium  
"Making the Land Holy: Peace in the Light of the Torah"  CSC  
Yehezkel Landau, Director, Religious Peace Movement  
in Israel (Reception at CSC will follow)  

., .........
~ 







Business 
page 10 Monday, NovemberS, 1990 
Daily News presses rolling, despite strikers 
NEW YORK (AP) -The strike-bound Daily News trudged ahead Sunday, handing out free samples and using "hawkers" to sell papers where vendors feared union intimida­tion. 
However, spokeswoman Lisa Robinson would not say how many papers were printed, dis­tributed or sold. 
Vendors at 10 midtown Man­hattan newsstands chosen at random Sunday said they had no Daily News; many said they had not seen the paper in sev­eral days. 
"We're still publishing," said Robinson. "We're still seeing gaps in distribution. Many, many people support us. Some people don't." 
Talks have been fruitless since they began in January over contracts that expired in March. The unions charge un­fair labor practices. 
The News was struck by eight of its 10 unions on Oct. 25, with the Newspaper Guild joining the strike the next day. Members of the Typographical Union have continued working because they have guaranteed lifetime jobs. 
Nonunion editors and re­porters from other papers op­erated by the News' parent company, The Tribune Co., have helped the skeleton crew of management employees that produced the paper since after the strike began. The Tribune Co. also operates newspapers in Chicago, Virginia and Florida. 
Robinson said strike-related incidents led to six arrests overnight in the city and sub­urbs. 
Police Officer Scott Bloch said a New York Times truck driver allegedly attacked a Daily News driver Saturday night. The News driver broke his ankle getting out of the truck. 
Bloch said The Times driver was charged with criminal mis­chief, assault and weapon pos­session. 
Two men were charged early Sunday with criminal mischief and criminal tampering after they allegedly pulled radio wires off a Daily News building on Long Island. Nassau County police Officer Andy DeSimone said he did not know if they were union members. · 
Police say 24 people have been arrested in the city since the strike began. 
In a full-page advertisement Saturday, the News offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and con­viction of people involved in strike-related violence, and $500 for information leading to an arrest. Robinson said Sun­day she didn't know if anyone had qualified yet. 
Daily News Publisher James Hoge said in a statement Sat­urday that "any suggestions for additional efforts to the federal mediation under way in 

Making the news 
Striking New York Daily News employees tip over a bus last week to show disapproval of the decision to bring in replacement workers. Eight of the ten Daily News' unions are currently on strike. 
our collective bargaining can services "in whatever way only be considered after all the would be effective." violence has stopped." 
He said he had attempted to The unions have asked Jack­call the Rev. Jesse Jackson to son to mediate the one issue tell him that but had been un­that is common to all the News' able to reach him. Jackson said unions -the right of strikers Friday at a rally of striking to return to their jobs, said workers that he would offer his Theodore Kheel, legal adviser to the unions. 
Kheel said the implication in Hoge's statement "that the unions control the violence is completely wrong." 
The 71-year-old daily has been in a financial tailspin for the past decade. 

Americans brace against bleak economic outlook 
NEW YORK (AP) -A remedy for hard times has emerged: Take your lumps now and put the bad news behind you. 
That was the strategy em­
' 
r ployed this past week by two big corporate names, who chose to pay the piper now
f 
rather than later. 
I 
General Motors Corp., the na­tion's largest industrial com­pany, and Eastman Kodak Co., r the 18th biggest, took hefty r charges in the third quarter to put some big problems to rest. ~ The charges turned profits into 
losses for both. 
GM, slugging through a slump in auto sales, said it took a $2.1 billion charge to cover the costs of plant closings and
t 
other production cutbacks. The stunning accounting move re­sulted in a $2 billion loss for the quarter, the largest in au­
f 
tomotive history. 
r 
It was a dismal quarter all' around for the Big Three au­~ tomakers. Ford Motor Co. re­ported lower than expected earnings, and Chrysler regis­
f 
tered a $214 million loss. With­out its charge, GM would have
~ 
managed a gain of just $109 million. 
The motivation for Kodak's move was a $909.5 million patent infringement judgment the company has been ordered to pay rival Polaroid. 
Kodak officials said that although no money has changed hands and the case was still under appeal, it was appropriate to book the charge right away. 
That left the photographic company with a $206 million third-quarter loss. Earnings would have risen 19 percent to $358 million without the judg­ment. 
Was the bloodletting good medicine? Wall Street thought so and registered its approval by bidding up shares of GM and Kodak after their announce­ments. 
Experts said the moves went a long way toward wiping the slate clean for both companies, although they still face stern 
competition in  a  tough  econ­ 
omy.  
Economic  worries  were  

prompting companies across the country to retrench. Citi­corp, General Dynamics and Aetna were among several an­nouncing cutbacks. Many economists said it could be the start of something ugly. 
"We haven't had a recession for so long that people forget what happens," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Co. 
The news on the economy continued to darken, with the exception of a surprising gov­ernment report that pegged economic growth at a strong 
1.8 percent in the third quarter. 
That hopeful report was later overshadowed by a litany of woe from several sources. 
The government's economic forecasting gauge dropped 0.8 percent in September, its sec­ond straight monthly drop. By conventional wisdom, three consecutive declines in the In­dex of Leading Economic Indi­cators signal a recession. 
The government said unem­ployment held steady in October at 5.7 percent, but job erosion continued among manufactur­ing and construction payrolls. A separate report showed con­struction spending in Septem­ber took its deepest plunge since the 1982 recession. 
A report from the National Association of Purchasing Management said October was the worst month for manufac­turers in eight years. 
Business failures rose by 14.5 percent in the first nine months of the year, according to Dun & Bradstreet Corp. 
The Economic Policy Institute, 
a liberal think tank, said heavy ~ debts accumulated in the heady 1980s would make a recession {) ~ 
longer and deeper than usual. • • Amid the gloom, the Federal IndeX • ....... 
Reserve, the nation's central bank. followed through on a of Leadl·ng
promise to ease credit in re­sponse to the federal budget Indicators agreement. The Fed lowered a Seasonally adjusted index. 1982 = 100 
short-term rate that banks 1--------------1 charge each other for overnight 
loans, but other interest rates r.1~48;;---------------J weren't expected to drop much, unless the Fed relaxes the 

144

credit reins even further. 
On Wall Street, where cut­backs have been a way of life since the 1987 market crash, 140 Morgan Stanley & Co. an-1--_......1----1._............._~__, nounced it would lay off about r.'"'=-t~......l---l._............._~__,
1 36

6 percent of its investment banking division, a small but noteworthy cut for one of the 0 • • • -• • • -• • • •
OND JFMAMJJAS
Street's most profitable firms. 1989 1990 In addition, the New York 
Sept. '89 Aug. '90 Sept. '90 
Stock Exchange said it was freezing executive salaries for l145.o I 1144.411143.31 1991 and enacting an early re­
tirement plan that aims to trim Source. u.s. Dept of Commerce AP about 8 percent of its staff next year. 
Unemployment 
Percent of work force. seasonally adjusted 
1-_____.._.....~~~HI--J 


NDJFMAMJJASO 
1989 1990 
Oct. '89 Sept. '90 Oct. '90 
I 5.3% II 5.7% II s.7% • 
Source: U.S. Dept of Labor AP 

Marijuana magazine will fold 
Publisher attributes failure to anti-drug climate 
CORVALLIS, Ore. (AP) -Sinsemilla Tips, the magazine for marijuana growers, is going out of business after 10 years be­cause of the nation's anti­drug climate, its publisher says. 
"Drug hysteria and para­noia" in the United States led to circulation declines for the quarterly magazine, publisher Tom Alexander of Corvallis said recently. The last issue of the periodical named for a potent strain of pot will be released this month. 
"Ten months ago, our cir­culation was 20,000," he said of the quarterly printed in Portland. "Now, it's 4,000." 
Alexander's store in Cor­vallis, Full Moon, also was hit during a nationwide series of raids on stores al­leged to be selling equipment used for marijuana cultiva­tion. 
First published in May 1980, Sinsemilla Tips was 
printed in Eugene until 
about 1986, then was printed in Portland. Labeling itself as a "domestic mari­juana journal," the magazine featured a variety of marijuana-related news, features and advice columns, as well as analysis of drug issues. 
The publication's circula­tion reached its peak of 20,000 in 1987 and main­tained that level until last year 
~age 11 





Viewpoint
Monday, NovemberS, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'a Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  I ,-. '' , ,I : ....,, John Wilkes &h  


Shirts reflect student hypocrisy 
Dear Editor: 
October 20th is a day I will probably never forget. As an alumnus, it was great to be back on campus for such a thrilling day and memorable game. However, the real memo­ries started as the game ended. 
As the time on the clock ran down, many of you poured from your seats to climb the wall and enter the field. My 13 year old daughter and I were seated in the first row below you. The flood of humanity pinned us against the wall. The fear on Coleen's face as the breath was being crushed from her lungs is something I will never forget. 
By the grace of God and the help of a few people from the 
Dear Editor: 
"Catholics v. Convicts?" I read where Notre Dame students had banners claiming "Hey Miami, Bo knows your mother." "Catholics v. Convicts"? Mike Sullivan, a lineman for the University of Miami, goes to church every Sunday. I bet it wasn't long ago that some of you missed Mass, even though there are about a thousand opportunities on the Notre Dame campus on any given Sunday. "Catholics v. Convicts"? Have none of you ever violated parietals, scalped tickets, or violated any other university 
DOONESBURY 
HI, LAaY, IT'5 JO/Wit. 

other side of the brick wall. we were able to free Coleen. Her ribs are bruised, but it could have been much worse. I also remember the face of the mother of two smaller children as she tried to free them from the wall. I can only hope that they were as fortunate as we and only had minor injuries. 
It is a shame that a few thou­sand of the best student body in the country showed so little re­gard for those around them. I can only hope that you let your many God given talents guide your actions in the future. 
James E. Cremin Palatine, Illinois Oct. 22, 1990 

rule, or even state law, in the name of good old college fun? 
Get some class Notre Dame. No, Miami does not have a pure past with respect to their foot­ball program. But before we cast that first stone, let's take a deep look at ourselves. Not only were the "Catholics v. Convicts" tee-shirts juvenile, lacking in ingenuity, and probably over­priced, it was a sign that there is a hypocritical arrogance at Notre Dame. 
Philip L. Russo, Jr. '80 Norfolk, Virginia Oct. 29. 1990 

LETTERS 


Author infers Satinism into song 
Dear Editor: 
This brief statement is di­rected toward the esteemed Joe Moody's desecration of the classical, immortal, philosophi­cally heart-rendering song "Hotel California," written and performed by the venerable and honorable Don Henley of the Eagles. (The Observer, Oct.15) 
He says one of the more in­spiring songs of a generation is satanically inspired. How one can see these things is beyond me and my simple ideals of the world and its happenings. 
This slandering of "Hotel California" is particularly rife with the mundane cliches and historical footnotes that have failed to bring this song down in the past. Yet, once again, someone must make a bombas­tic attack on something which would be better left alone. I, for one, am outraged at such an attack of the virtue, the very essence of one of the most en­dearing songs of all time. 
If some sort of Satan-music connection is desired to be found, why not try someone more deserving? I'm sure if Mr. Moody put his mind to it, he could find more provocative lyrics in other groups. I seem to remember the recent banning of one national group because of their lyrics, why not try them! Leave the Eagles out of this one. I do have just one question for the author of the "HC" defamation, though-where did he become personally acquainted with the intricacies of the Church of Satan? 
Moody claims that the "Hotel" in question is the Church of Satan, created in 1969 by Anton Levey in California. He bases all of this upon only the mentioning of one date in the song. 
Did it ever occur that any number of events took place in 1969 besides the founding of a great evil? Any one of a dozen events could account for the date 1969 in the song-perhaps the landing of the U.S. astro­nauts on the moon, the Mets winning the World Series or even perhaps Woodstock. 
Is the only spirit Moody can think of an anti-Christian spirit, or is the spirit of Woodstock too much of an existentialist idea to grasp? Perhaps, Mr. Moody, the year 1969 was used just because it rhymes. Some great forbidding mystery there, huh? Just think if he had used the year 1929, the song would be about the great evil stock market crashes. Oooh, it sends shivers up and down my spine. 
The aforementioned slander­ous author also seems to have grandiose illusions that all bells are related to hell and the Church of Satan. Hmmm. Who 
1

else used bells? Maybe, the 
1

Catholic Church? 
1 1

To quote a line from "The 
1

Abyss," "we all see what we 
1 

want, you've just got to look with better eyes." ~ 
Why does materialism come ~ into Mr. Moody's dissertation so 1 often? Is it because he asso­
1

ciates material wealth with he­donistic activities and therefore the Church of Satan? I see it differently. Material wealth, in­stead of being exhorted by those in Satan's Church, is given up by God's children. We go to the kingdom and revel in the life we find there, "dancing in the courtyard." 
In summary, please don't read something into nothing. Neither you nor I could ever possibly go through Mr. Henley's mind and know for sure what he was thinking when he created the timeless opus known as Hotel California. There is enough evil in the world. Why in God's name would Mr. Moody want to create more? 
J. Kevin Holloran 
Cavanaugh Hall Oct. 19, 1990 


Listener mistakes lyrics of profanity for racism 
Dear Editor: would guess took place at CJ's), 
I am writing in response to and therefore would liave Vienna Colucci's letter "Song missed any crowd offends, angers student," (The editorializing. However, I do Observer, Oct. 31), in which the know that the proper lyrics (if singing of an anti-Jewish song they could be called that) to the at a local bar is described. song in question are "You piss 
I was not present at the bar me off! You f-ing jerk", not 
and the sing along (which I "Jew." 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
HtU,() 7  HAVE YOU GIVeN ANYMOR/3 71a6HT 708tiNG A tuRJTC.­IN CANPtt:?tlT/3 ~  '1[;5, BUT IA//THON/3 PRDV/50.  I MIGHTfi4V8 70 !?&SIGN AGAIN. OVERTAXES. \  
~~  

Is it possible that this is what the crowd was singing? Profanity is a far cry from racism! 
John Steinlage Off-campus Oct. 31, 1990 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'He that dres truth comes into the light.' 
Inscription, Jamaican Order of Merit 
Monday, November 5, 1990 
page 12 


Funding affects art beyond legitimate role 
By Andrew 
Scarcella 

Congress has recently passed a law which places restrictions upon those who receive federal funding from the· National Endowment for the Arts. The law, which is one of many that limit the use of N.E.A. funds, bars funded artists from creat­ing "obscene" works. The art community has cried "censorship," while traditional conservatives have celebrated a law which U.S. Senator Jesse Helms claims is intended to "stop the liberals from spending taxpayer's money on perverted, deviant art." 
Art is a matter of personal expression; what may be beau­tiful to some, may be offensive to others. While I wholeheart­edly agree with Senator Helms' point of view, I also feel that governmental restrictions exer­cise legitimate, yet undue cen­sorship. It is not a function of our government to subsidize "perverted art," nor is it a function of our government to defme "perverted art." Thus, I believe that our federal gov­ernment should not fund art (N.E.A.) at all. 
Our government places re­strictions and stipulations upon all of the grants and subsidies it distributes. Power to fund provides legitimate power to control. The power to control does not supersede our consti­tutional rights, but the power to define and interpret our rights is inherent with the power to control. The definitions and regulations which our government applies to an 
N.E.A. funded artist are legiti­mate; they do not constitute "censorship," while the applica­tion of such regulations to a non-funded artist would. 
Our government is not ca­pable of determining what is art or is not. The definition of art is found in the eyes of the beholder. While Andres Serrano may find artistic value in his Piss Christ, which depicts what William Saffire described as a "marinated religious sym­bol," I cannot find any. What may "make a statement" to some members of the artistic 

Genders must share role shifts 
Dear Editor: 
As I read issues of the The Observer which get sent to me in far away Mexico City, I am pleased to hear about Notre Dame's attempts to improve male/female relations on cam­pus. We, as a university com­munity, have a ways to go, but the opportunities offered through this year's focus on women and the basic commu­nity spirit of Notre Dame gives the University strong chances for meaningful progress. 
However, one very damaging misconception must be ad­dressed and put to rights. The misconception that to improve their lots women must be the sex still forced to do a juggling act with life's choices must end. Society must learn to accept the idea that for the full equality of both sexes, men must begin to take more responsibility for family life. In this day and age, it is becoming unacceptable for men to be nothing more than 
r 
the primary bread earner 
r (especially since more and 
r more women are earning their own "bread").
~ 
, · Before women can attain the equal status that they deserve and have long since earned, it must be realized that the woman's traditional role is not the only gend~r role that must undergo changes. Eileen Kolman, Chair of the Year of Women Committee, stated that " ... an undergraduate woman will need to make future choices in order to balance marriage, a career and a fam­ily. A male does not have to worry about a family infringing upon his life." 
This attitude, the attitude that says only women must do the changing and adjusting and juggling, must end. Such an attitude only makes women's struggle for equality more difficult. If men and women, in the near future, are to meet each other on common and equal ground, then both sexes must realize that both traditional gender roles must change. It is an almost impos­sible task and a selfish request to expect women alone to be child rearer, career woman, happy homemaker and devoted wife. I challenge any male to try to accomplish four full-time oc­cupations at once. 
Women will only be able to reach their full potential when men give to women the same support that men, for the most part, have expected and re­ceived throughout history. life's challenges can be handled alone but are best conquered when the sexes combine their talents and work together to­wards common goals. 
Elizabeth Peterson 
Mexico City 
Oct. 9. 1990 

Sports emphasis explains ranking 
Dear Editor: 
The Oct. 10 Observer issue reports the absence of Notre Dame in the US News & World Report's annual rankings of the top national universities. 
Permit me, as one conversant with a few of the people who determine such rankings, to enlighten our community as to the causes of said judgement. 
1) There is perceived to be a decided decline in the quality of undergraduate liberal arts edu­cation at Notre Dame. 
2) Not unrelated to the above, there is perceived to be a shal­low, indeed hollow, pursuit of "research" in areas of sheer, tendentious folly: eg. Deconstructionism, Have Method-will-Measure Social (pseudo) Sciences and mindless trendy "in" concerns. e.g. Gender & Peace Studies.) 
3) There is perceived to exist at du Lac an inordinate empha­sis upon athletics at the ex­pense of intellectual pursuits. That perception is strongly supported by the Gourman Report which, in the category of "Balance between Academics and Athletics," does not even rank Notre Dame in the top 50. Notre Dame is not even given an honorable mention amongst the next 100. Is The Observer startled? Why? After all, 30 to 50 percent of The Observer's pages are devoted to sports. 
This campus is plagued by sports and social(ist) concerns:. Is it any wonder that "Notre Dame slips" in serious, as opposed to football polls? 
James J. Carberry Professor Department ofChemical Engineering Oct. 16, 1990 

community can just as easily be viewed as "obscene" by the American public. 
The Supreme Court has at­tempted to define "obscenity" in relation to the distribution of pornographic materials. In Miller vs. California (1973) the Court said the "obscene" mate­rials appeal to a "prurient in­terest," have no "serious liter­ary, artistic, political, or scien­tific value," and should be judged by "community stan­dards." The Court's definition itself appears to be vague; how do you define a "prurient inter­est" or a "community stan­dard?" 
Richard Oldenburg, director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, stated that "creativity requires freedom of expression," including the lib­erty "to explore new paths which may occasionally test our tolerance." It is not the role of our federal government to stifle freedom of expression, nor is it the role of our federal govern­ment to block the "new paths" to which Oldenburg refers. The only legitimate way to stop our federal government from influ­encing artists is to eliminate all government support for the arts. 
Cutting all federal support for the arts will not eliminate our federal budget deficit, nor will the money "saved" serve as a cure-all for any of our other national concerns. Elimination of federal support for the arts is not a matter of politics or policy, it is a matter of princi­ple. IVmakes no difference whether our federal govern­ment gives one dollar or one billion dollars to art funding; there are going to be just as many stipulations and regula­tions placed upon the one dollar as there are going to be place upon the one billion dollars. There can be no "lesser of two evils" in this case. There is just as much power to control which emanates from the one dollar as there is from the one billion dollars. 
If federal funding for the 
N.E.A. is eradicated, then art will not be forgotten, nor will it be lost. The private sector will be able to pick up where our government has left off. Support for museums and plays will be funded privately. Artists and writers will be guided by the market, not by our federal government. If an artist feels that a work which may be "obscene" will generate enough revenue to support him, then more power to him. I would certainly not support a "marinated religious symbol," but there are others that might. Self-interest will motivate artists. Nearly all of the "great" literary and artistic works were created by artists without government support. 
Funding of art is not a needed, nor is it a legitimate, function of our government. Our government's purpose is to protect our constitutional rights, not to suppress them. It is not feasible for artists to ac­cept federal funds and not be influenced by the government. William Saffire described the relationship best: "Who takes the king's shilling becomes the king's man." 
Andrew Scarcella is a student in the Freshman Year ofStudies. 

=-----------------------------------------~ 

HU5J£!f/ 



LETTERS 

Cartoon misrepresents shootings 
Dear Editor: 
The comic in The Observer on Oct. 17 depicting five Palestinians facing the firing squad in front of the Wailing Wall is a very interesting but incomplete account of what took place on Oct. 8 when 20 Palestinians were killed and hundreds wounded by blood­thirsty, trigger-happy Israeli policemen. The comic isn't very funny, but it could be a "riot" with a few changes. 
The Western Wall (the most holy site in Judaism) is shown as the wall of a firing squad. There are rocks strewn across the ground with the caption, "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. a bullet for a rock." If the comic were to be more ac­curate and much funnier, it would have shown over 3,000 enraged Palestinians instead of the 5 dejected souls that the artist has shown. The Palestinians in the comic have their hands tied behind their backs, which is not very funny at all. The Palestinians should be holding rocks, bottles and bricks while shaking their free fists in defiance. 
The artist who drew this comic seems to have mixed up a good number of things that would have made the comic much better. For instance, the Palestinians should be shown on the Temple Mount above the Wailing Wall which is where they were located when they desecrated Judaism's most holy sight by showering bricks and bottles down on those murder­ous Jews that were celebrating the holiday of Sukkot. The artist should have included something in the caption about how silly those crazy Jews looked running around with Torah scrolls perched up in the air when the bottles and rocks began smashing them-now that would be funny. 
Along with the rocks on the ground surrounding the "wall," there should be Jewish blood and maybe even bits of a Rabbi's beard who was smashed by a bottle. Funny stuff. 
Perhaps the comic should be expanded to show Israeli po­licemen using tear gas and rubber bullets in an attempt to quell the Palestinian attack, but that wouldn't be very funny. 
Maybe the comic should have an additional caption explain­ing that the Palestinian mob had assembled to protect the Dome of the Rock and the AI Aqsa Mosque from a handful of demonstrators. The caption could also say that Israeli police in the "old city" of Jerusalem prevented this occurrence from taking place. Also mentioning that since rioting has generally not taken place in the "old city," the main purpose of the police presence is to protect both the Moslem and Jewish holy sites. But that won't make anyone laugh, because the truth isn't very funny. 
Mr. Araman wrote an article just below the comic declaring that, "Bloodshed displays Israeli authorities' total disre­gard of Palestinian human life." Mr. Araman can't understand why a handful of policemen had to shoot people to protect themselves and Jewish civilians. What does Mr. 
Araman expect? Should the Israelis lay down their weapons and assume their historical role as the victims that the entire world feels sorry for? Mr. Araman knocks Jews and doesn't hold the "Palestinian authorities" responsible. After all, the "Palestinian authorities", (Yasir Arafat chairman of the PLO and company) were in Baghdad leading the uproar. Interestingly enough, there were no tears in Arafat's eyes as he lovingly embraced his people's champion, Saddam Hussein, over the weekend. Don't pay any attention to Saddam Hussein's boasting that he will burn half of Israel; after all, he proved his high regard for human life when he dropped chemical bombs on his own citizens during the Iran­Iraq war. And let us not forget that it is the PLO who has en­couraged violent riots through­out the Intifada that have con­tinually resulted in loss of life ­and anti-Israeli media cover­age. Perhaps they consider front page news-print more sa­cred than human life. 
What the bloodshed on Oct. 8 displays is that the Israeli au­thorities will protect their citi­zens through use of force, if necessary. The Palestinian ac­tion on Oct. 8 was a desecration of Judaism, sending yet another message of violence in the face of peace -as if allying themselves with Saddam Hussein had not already done so. 
Bill Lerman 
Off-Campus 
Oct. 18, 1990 

..---------A--------------------------------------------------------~---------------------




---~-----------------------------------. 
ELECTION '90: AROUND THE STATE. 
page 2 
HOOSIER ELECTION BRIEFS  
Here is a list of some of the other elections being held on Tuesday: e Indiana U.S. Senate Republican Dan Coats, age 47, is a ten-year veteran of Congress. He was elected in the 4th Congressional District in Northwestern Indiana in 1980, served for eight years, then was appointed to a temporary Senate vacancy left by Vice President Dan Quayle. Democrat Baron Hill, age 37, is an Indiana state lawmaker. e Sheriff of St. Joseph County The candidates are Republican Robert Radde and Democrat Joseph Nagy. Radde, age 57, was the Republican nominee in 1986, has served in the FBI for 32 years and is presently retired. Nagy, age 42, was elected sheriff in 1986, was the county auditor from 1978-85, and was the South Bend City Auditor from 1972-79. eSt. Joseph County Prosecutor Republican George Roberts, age 55, served as Deputy pros­ecutor from 1964-65, is a former member of the St. Joseph County Tax Adjustment Board, and was attorney for St. Joseph County Park and Recreation Board from 1966-86. Democrat Michael Barnes, age 42, has served as prosecuting attorney since 1979, was deputy prosecuting attorney from 1973-78, and was a Democratic candidate for 3rd District Congress in 1984. TIME CAPSULE  
Two Years Ago: eRepublican Vice President George Bush defeated the Democratic Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis in the bid for President of the United States. eRepublican incumbent John Hiler defeated Democrat Tom Ward in the Indiana 3rd Congressional District race. Ward made a strong showing in traditionally Democratic St. Joseph County, and early results showed Ward as many as twenty percentage points ahead, but Hiler gained in the polls steadily all night to defeat Ward. esecretary of State Evan Bayh defeated Republican Lt. Governor John Mutz to become the first democrat elected gov­ernor of Indiana since 1964. esenator Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, defeated Republican challenger George Voinovich, the mayor of Cleveland. eDemocratic Senator Daniel Moynihan of New York won over Republican challenger Robert McMillan. eRepublican Senator Pete Wilson defeated challenger Lt. Governor Leo McCarthy for a seat representing California. esenator Donald Reigle, D-Mich., outgunned Republican nominee Jim Dunn for a senate seat. ELECTION COVERAGE  
To find out the results of Tuesday's elections tune into the fo¥EL'ivli1oN WNDU-TV: 7:30 to 8 p.m., Decision '90 (provides local coverage) Five-minute local updates at 8:55, 9:55, 10:25, 11:55 p.m. 11:30 to midnight, NBC Election Returns (provides national coverage) WSBT-TV: 7 to 7:30p.m. Local Election Coverage Seven-minute updates at 8, 9, 10:23 p.m. 10 to 11 p.m. CBS News Special (provides national coverage) 11:30 p.m. to midnight, CBS Election Coverage {provides national coverage) WSJV-lV: Two 90-second local updates are scheduled, one each between 8 and 8:30 p.m. and 9 and 9:30 p.m. (actual times to be announced) 10 to 11 p.m., ABC Election Special (provides national coverage) 11:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Nightline (provides national coverage) RADIO WAMJ-AM 1580: Local updates every half-hour between 7 p.m. and midnight. Six-minute reports at the top of each hour; three-minute reports at the bottom of each hour. WNDU-AM 1490, WNDU-FM U-93: Local updates as new returns become available. WSBT-AM 960: Three-to four-minute local updates every half-hour between 7 and 11 p.m.  



Democrat 
continued from page 1 
knowledge abroad, he said. In addition, strong anti-drug programs are needed in the schools to protect our youth. Finally, education should be made more accessible to all, said Roemer. 
Roemer compares his drug policy to a scissor. He explains that one blade is interdiction both in foreign countries and on our own borders. The second blade is education and programs, such as DARE, which encourage rehabilita­tion. 
He uses Lifehouse, a local rehabilitation center for alcohol and drug abusers, as an example of the need for more funding in the war against drugs. According to Roemer, Lifehouse has turned away up to 80 percent of those applying for help due to lack of funds. 
It is time for government to m~e tough decisions on the budget, Roemer said. For Roemer, these tough cuts should come in the areas of agriculture, NASA and defense. Roemer says he feels a space station is not necessary and believes that smart cuts must be made in defense. 
Such weapons as Strategic Defense Initiative, MX rail­garrisons and B-2 bombers are becoming obsolete as the threat of war with the Soviet Union dwindles, while the locally produced "Hummer" truck is proving itself in­valuable in the Middle-East, he said. · 
In the area of economics, Roemer's policy is based largely on the fact that no 

Roemer 
continued from page 4 
was a member of the subcommittee of the House Banking Committee which directly monitored the Savings and Loans. In addition, even though Mr. Hiler held partial ownership of a bank, he still sought this position and in­troduced bills which would benefit banks. 
Another suspect facet of Hiler's office is that two of his assistants have been involved in suspected criminal activity. (One is serving time now and the other is preparing for trial). Hiler has never enjoyed the success which he should, especially in a district which was gerrymandered to give the advantage to the Republicans. In fact, his highest level of sup­port in 1 0 years has only been 54 percent. Hiler has also been a long-standing member of the "Dirty Dozen"-a group which is identified as being notorious for voting against bills to pro­tect the environment. 
benefits from the trickle down theory ever reached the 3rd Indiana district. The poor and middle class have not been treated fairly, said Roemer, citing the fact that it will cost $5,000 per taxpayer to straighten out the Savings and Loan failure. 
He is concerned that after bailing out the Savings and Loan industry, taxpayers must then pay for a $30,000 pay raise for congressmen. According to Roemer, it is time Congress started spending tax money more wisely. 
As it is in other elections, abortion is a key issue. Roemer says he is a pro-life candidate. He supports counseling for women contemplating an abortion and would like to see support net­works that build a compassionate environment for both the mother and the child. He says he wants women to be able to feel that their child will be born into a caring environment. His exceptions are rape, incest, and threat to the mother's life. 
Roemer is also concerned with the environment. He says he would like to introduce legislation that would improve the environment, such as well­head protection. He says new environmental technologies will create new jobs and give America something to sell to the Japanese. 
The anti-incumbant fervor that has been prevalent across the nation this election year has also affected Tim Roemer. "In 1988, 402 out of 408 congressional incumbents were re-elected. That's not democracy, that's less turnover than the Soviet Politburo." 
Roemer believes Congress is "an institute for re-election." He says elections need to be 
Finally, Hiler admits that he is having difficulty in passing bills out of committee and later on the House floor because he is unable to get the necessary Democratic support. All of these factors, when combined, raise a legitimate concern. Former President John F. Kennedy once said, "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country." Looking at John Hiler's record, it is arguable that. he is not fully utilizing the power which the voters have given him for the benefit of the country; when he does use his power, it tends to be for his own inter­ests. 
Tim Roemer is running on behalf of Middle Class America. An ABC survey found that 65 percent of Americans feel that politicians do not care about what happens at home. Roemer does care, because he is part of the same middle­class that most of us come from. He personally makes $29,000 per year, and he is seeing a larger chunk go away to help patch up the blunders of the affluent congressmen. 
Monday, November 5, 1990 
more competitive. To do this he would not limit the number of terms a person can serve, but instead eliminate the advantages held by incumbents like franking privileges and unlimited campaign funds. 
Roemer says he feels this year's campaign for the 3rd district seat a negative one, citing a particular Hiler ad which labeled Roemer a liberal. A label that has had negative connotations since the 1988 presidential cam­paign. 
He pointed out that his opponent once said that in 1986, when he won by 4 7 votes, he had run a "warm and fuzzy" campaign, but the margin was too close and this time he decided to change his strategy. 
Roemer has been conducting his local attack through the efforts of the "Caravan for Change." He and his supporters go into neighborhoods and walk door to door. They also speak to people at malls, coffee shops and church gatherings. On Saturday, the Caravan stopped at the Sweet Home Missionary Baptist Church for lunch and a prayer from the pastor Rev­erend Jones. 
Roemer says he tries to spend time with every person he meets, from boys hitting cans with a stick to a family trying to repair a garage to two elderly men helping each other rake leaves. 
This is how he plans to represent the 3rd district in Congress-by listening to the people. He believes that his "Caravan for Change" has allowed him to reach many of the people that government may have forgotten. 
He favors campaign finance reform, so that the "obscene" process of fund-raising will no continue into the nex generation. Tim contends tha only by opening the democratic process to all the people, including minorities women and the poor, will we truly have a government "by for, and of the people." 
On Oct. 20, the Notre Dame family had the opportunity to support the "Team of the 1990s" as it challenged the fa vored "Team of the 1980s. Once the game had ended, Notre Dame had prevailed over Miami, completing the changing of the guard in college football. On Nov. 6, we once again have the opportunity to change the guard and help a member of the Notre Dame family become a leader of the 1990s. A vote for Tim Roemer is a vote for values, for changes, for new ideas, for the middle class, and for the new era of responsible government. 
Christopher Coury is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
ELECTION '90 STAFF 
News: Monica Yant, Florentine Hoelker and Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint: Michelle Dall, Kathy ·Welsh, John O'Brien Production: Lisa Eaton Graphics: Alison Cocks and Michael Muldoon 


Hiler 
contmued from page 4 
supporting Congressman John Hiler: his stands on education, the environment and foreign affairs. However, I do not think my testimony would be complete without discussing his opponent. Tim Roemer claims that he will represent the interests of the Third District of Indiana; however, I question his ability to do that when almost 90 percent of his campaign finances come from outside the state. I also question his ability to govern considering the highlight of his political experience is his past position as a legislative assistant to Senator DeConcini, who is currently under investigation for his role in the S & L crisis. Finally, I take exception to the misleading charges Roemer has leveled against Hiler's voting record on important issues such as the S & L crisis and Catastrophic Health Care. 
In my experience with Congressman Hiler's campaign, I have found him to be a fair, intelligent and effective representative who should be returned to the Congress. That is why I have volunteered to be a part of that effort. 
Mary Ritter is a junior in the College ofArts and Letters. 
ELECTION '90: AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 5, 1990 page 3 "\ 


Election picture still unclear 
Where to Vote in 
WASHINGTON (AP) would "pick up governor seats. have been spent to maximize 
Notre Dame, Indiana
Candidates in Tuesday's We're going to pick up in the each party's strength in the 
congressional and Senate, and we're going to state legislatures that will 
Voting will take place Tuesday from 6 a.m. to 
6 p.m. at the following five locations, listed
gubernatorial elections hurtled pick up in the House." redraw the House district 
through a final weekend of White House chief of staff boundaries. 
here according to place of residence. 
campaigning Sunday while John Sununu conceded Florida's gubernatorial 
party leaders posted rival Democrats would retain candidates campaigned on 
NO Continuing Ed. Bldg., Room 100 
predictions of success. control of both the House and network television. 
Alumni Hall Holy Cross House Presbytery Hall 
Hepublicans were heartened Senate in the 1 02nd Congress, "We're saying no new taxes by a string of public opinion and perhaps pad their next year," said Republican 
Badin Hall Howard Hall Retreat House 
polls trending in their favor majorities in both houses. Gov. Bob Martinez, appearing 
Brownson Hall James Hall ROTC Building
and expressed optimism about But he quickly added, "What on ABC's This Week with 
Carroll Hall Lewis Hall Sarin Hall 
the California governor's race, we have set as a goal is to be David Brinkley. "And that's 
Columba Hall Lyons Hall St. Joseph Hall 
the biggtJst prize of the significantly better than the where Lawton Chiles says we midterm campaign. average result in an off-year need them." 
Corby Hall Mission House St. Joseph Solitude 
Decio Hall Morrissey Hall U. Hlth. Serv. Convent
Democrats remained election. And if we do that, it Countered Chiles, the leader 
confident of solid gains in both will be a success." Historically, in one late pre-election poll, 
Dillon Hall Old College Villa Angela 
Congress and the statehouses. the party controlling the White "Well, I think that I don't agree 
Dujarie Hall O'Shaughnessy Vincent Hall 
In California, Hepublican House loses roughly two dozen right now that you have to 
Fatima Retreat Pangborn Hall Walsh Hall
gubtJrnatorial candidate Pete House seats in the election have new revenue." Wilson shuttled to a series of midway through the Fresh polls pointed to a 
Fisher Hall 
public rallies, while Democrat president's first term. Republican trend in close 
NO Continuing Ed. Bldg., Room 104
Dianne Feinstein visited A nationwide New York races to pick governors in churches in poor and minority Times-CBS survey depicted an Kansas and Ohio, and even 
Breen-Phillips Hall Fire House St. Edward's Hall 
areas of San Francisco. electorate pessimistic about Massachusetts, where a survey 
Cavanaugh Hall Keenan Hall Stanford Hall
Feinstein told parishioners it the economy and unhappy showed William Weld in a was Wilson who "broke the with its government, and the tightening race with Democrat 
Center Cont. Ed. LaFortune Zahm Hall 
Farley Hall NO Infirmary
back of the 1990 Civil Bights pundits said they were wary of John Silber. 
Bill" with his Senate vote making predictions. Minnesota Sen. Hudy sustaining President Bush's "Definitely a Yogi Berra year, Boschwitz, counted as among veto of that bill two weeks ago. which is it isn't over till it's the GOP's endangered Wilson, buoyed by recent over," Democratic pollster incumbents, held an 
Augusta Hall Immaculata Hall Regina Center 
polls giving him a slight lead in Peter Hart said on Cable News apparently widening edge over 
Douglas Road Le Mans Hall Regina Hall North 
the race, condemned Feinstein Network's Newsmaker Sunday. Democrat Paul Wellstone for "pathetic" campaign tactics One thing was for certain, it according to a survey of voters 
Holy Cross Hall McCandless Hall Regina Hall South 
Holy Cross Brothers Presbytery (SMC) SMC Convent 
designed to divide the state on was almost over. in their state. racial and class lines. At stake in Tuesday's But a new survey in Texas 
In the nation's most closely balloting are 34 Senate seats, suggested Democrat Ann 
54191 Ironwood Dr.· Little Flower Church Hall
watched Senate race, GOP a new 435-member House and Hichards was gaining on Sen. Jesse Helms passed up 36 governorships. More than Republican oilman Clayton 
J.A.C.C. Knott Hall Pasquerilla East 
church services in favor of 6100 legislative races are on Williams. 
Flanner Hall NO Townhouses Pasquerilla West 
extra rest. Democratic rival the ballot, and voters in 43 Bush spent the day in llarvey Gantt attended states and the District of Houston, where he attended 
Grace Hall O'Hara-Grace Apts. Siegfried Hall 
services and scheduled an Columbia will decide the fate church with Williams and evening rally. of hundreds of ballot arranged to speak by phone to Not surprisingly, officials in initiatives. rallies in Alaska, Utah, 
both parties predicted success Adding spice to the mix was Nebraska and Maryland. 
University Ave. 

when the votes are counted -increased interest in the state "The election could be won 
The Observer/Michael Muldoon 
and defined the term to their legislative races. An estimated or lost depending on who gets advantage. 19 House seats will move from out to the polls," Bush said in 
Hun Brown, chairman of the northern and midwestern a audio link with a rally for ND/SMC: Vote tomorrow. Democratic National industrial states to the Sun GOP Senate candidate Hal Committee, said his party Belt before 1992, and millions Daub in Nebraska. 


Recent political campaigns poor examples of democracy 
I still remember the first 
time I saw the poster. 
I was a sophomore at the University of Colorado, and I was helping to organize a voter registration drive in Boulder. The posters we were hanging up around 

campus depicted a scene from South Africa. In it a L. Peter Yob group of protestors, most of Assistant News Editor them black, were fleeing 
from a gang of police in 
riot gear. 
The police wielded billy clubs. The fear on the fleeing protestors' faces was visible. Tear gas filled the background. 
The caption on the poster was simple, direct, and to the point. "You've got something other people are dying to have," it read: "Register and vote." 
The message is a powerful reminder of how lucky we are to live in a democracy. We need to remember that Chinese students bravely stood in the path of tanks and murdering soldiers in an effort to achieve democracy. Palestinians are killed daily be­cause of their effort to achieve full political and human rights. 
In these and other notable struggles for freedom around the world, the United States is often held out as the ideal, the ultimate democracy. 
For the U.S. elections this Tuesday, however, there have been predictions of a record-low voter turnout. We Americans are proud of our democracy and 
GOP 
continued from page 1 
saying in its endorsement that "We're kind of hoping that !Hoerner] is going to come out somewhere other than what he's saying." 
lliler said that the two things he has to offer the voters of In­diana's 3rd district are his consistency and his "fairly 
democratic heritage, but when it comes to participation, many voters are noticeably absent. This ambivalence reflects a cynicism that is prevalent in today's election politics. 
Candidate Bush pledges not to raise taxes but later President Bush acknowledges that there is no choice but to do so. Congress allows itself free mailing privileges and refuses to set spending limits on campaigns, guaranteeing an incumbent reelection rate of at least 95 percent. 
Racist attitudes are reflected in campaign tactics. In 1988 Candidate Bush appealed to fear of minority crime in his Willie Horton ads. 
Senator Jesse Helms is currently in a close reelec­tion campaign with Harvey Gantt, who is the former mayor of Charlotte and who happens to be black. Helms has, in the last week, run television ads that ask the audience how they would feel if they didn't get a job because it was given to a less qualified mi­nority. The ad goes on to say that Gantt supports quotas. The message: vote for the candidate who will support white interests. 
Negative election tactics on the national level are now filtering down to the local level. It's hard to be­lieve how low the advertisements have sunk in local races for Congress, Secretary of State, and even for state senate and the sheriff's race. 
If you believe recent television ads, every candidate is connected to a savings and loan and wants to needlessly raise taxes. As election day approaches, ads become more negative. 
The informational value of election ads are mini­mal. They leave the public with a distorted view of the issues. When neither candidate is appealing to voters, what should the expectation be? 
The answer is a low turnout. 
This Tuesday I am not voting in any election race. Part of this stems from the fact that I am a resident of Colorado. If voting is unattractive, then absentee voting is even less attractive. 
I am not suggesting that people should not vote. That is a personal choice that each individual must make. 
Sometimes I reflect on the poster of the South Africans. I think of the people around the world who would give their lives for the chance that their chil­dren will someday live in a democracy. 
Then later I'll see a commercial depicting a candi­date's opponent flip-flopping between stances on abortion. I'll see a news report where a candidate asks if his opponent has stopped drinking. This cannot be the type of system those struggling for democracy expect. 
It's hard to be optimistic about the future of elec­tion politics in this country. This year witnessed an upsurge of public opinion against incumbents when they failed to e::tact a budget. When a budget was fi­nally passed, public opinion became complacent once again. 
Hope lies in the fact that someday public opinion will swell up against those who practice negative campaigning. Until then voter turnout will be low, and the public's cynical attitude toward our govern­ment will continue. 
well-defined" political philoso­phy. "I don't back down from it. I'm not afraid to debate it," he said. 
During the campaign, this consistency was attacked by Roemer's camp in a television commercial about Hiler's vote to repeal a catastrophic health bill which he had earlier voted for. The commercial featured a chicken crossing a road several times. The image of an indecisive chicken was the Democrats way of showing Hiler as unable to make up his mind on the issue. 
However, Hiler called the vote to repeal the bill "one of the best votes I've cast in 10 years." He said that he voted to repeal the bill after receiving 3,000 telephone calls and letters from senior citizens asking him to repeal it. "It is not my job as a member of Congress to shove down people's throats programs that they don't want and that truly are optional programs." 
Hiler says that being a par­ent (he has two daughters, ages 4 and 3) also influences his voting. "When I talk about child care, it's not abstract." 
The one big difference be­tween Roemer and Hiler, ac­cording to Hiler, is that fact that Roemer believes that gov­ernment can do more than Hiler believes it can. Hiler called himself someone who does not think that "government knows how to do everything better than every­body else. I have voted to put control back in the hands of people, because I am con­vinced that that is where we find a lot of solutions." 
John Hiler is also optimistic in one final regard-he is con­fident about Tuesday's election. "It will be close. but I'm confident we will be on top." 
.. 

ELECTION '90: Viewpoint 
r· Monday, November 5, 1990
page4 



Roemer depends on value-oriented supporters 

EDITORIAL 

Vote Roemer 
The race for Indiana's 3rd district Congressional seat has been so dirty and so filled with negative cam­paigning that endorsing a candidate requires us to frrst dig through a pile of well-slung mud. 
After sorting through all of the allegations and scathing advertisements, we endorse Tim Roemer over incumbent John Hiler to represent the 3rd district in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
Roemer is running on a platform that is filled with many good ideas. 
He feels strongly about education and considers se­curin~ a seat on the House Education and Labor committee a top priority. In addition, he proposes to stop illegal drugs through both tougher enforcement and funding of education and rehabilitation pro~ams. 
However, his ideas have been mostly theoretical and he has offered few concrete solutions. In order to be an effective Representative, he must convert these ideas into action, producing tangible results from his theories. 
We favor Roemer because Hiler has offered few new ideas and appears satisfied with the current state of government. 
He voted against the recently passed federal budget because it raised taxes significantly. He also believes that there is little more the government can do to better the lives of its citizens. 
We find Hiler too complacent to be effective any longer. Tou~h economic times are on the horizon. John Hiler and his old ideas will solve nothing in the face of these problems. 
One issue that both Roemer and Hiler can be criti­cized on is their campaigning. The candidates waged a bitter battle in print and on the airwaves and brought political campaigns in the district to an all-time low. 
The race became so dirty that the Today Show did a feature on it. This isn't the kind of behavior that the people of the 3rd district need to be known for. Both candidates should be chided for acting so petty and for embarrassing their "constituents" in front of the entire country. 
In addition, both candidates showed little interest in the voters of the ND/SMC community. While Roemer made a few campaign visits to Notre Dame, Hiler did not \lay an on-campus visit this fall. This is strange considering Hiler won the 1986 election by a mere 4 7 votes. 
As another close election is predicted, we urge all registered voters to vote and to remember Tim Roemer asyou do so. As 1986 proved, our votes can make a difference. 
Secondly, Tim Roemer sup­ports programs which put his values into practice in a pro­active way. He has a firm belief that "Congress should work for the people, not for the congressman." This conviction is evident in several of Tim's policy recommendations. Education is one area in which major improvement is needed. Tim 
By Mary Ritter 
For the past four months, I have been working on the Hiler campaign as the student liaison. During this time, I have gotten to know Congressman John Hiler and his views on a wide range of issues. Hiler is a very effective representative and provides strong leadership for the Third District of Indiana. I support Congressman Hiler's efforts in Congress, especially his views on education, the environment and foreign affairs. 
One of Congressman John Hiler's main priorities is the children of the United States. He .is sincerely dedicated to revitalizing our education system. Congressman Hiler is aware that we need many improvements and changes in our education system in order to greater benefit future generations. 
A very important point Congressman Hiler makes about education is the need to get more out of our education dollar. Spending for education in this country has risen significantly over the past decade, but student achievement has not. Therefore, the Congressman has endorsed several different proposals aimed at fostering needed reforms in our educational system. 
Hiler supports the concept of school of "choice"--giving parents the ability to choose the school their child will attend. If parents do not feel satisfied with their local school, they should be able to place their children in a different one. Choice makes the school accountable to the student. It has also been shown to improve the academic achievement of students and increase parental involvement in education. 
Congressman Hiler has co­sponsored bills that face the problems of illiteracy, school dropouts and school-based drug abuse. The Congressman's devotion to level of education, including the Head Start Program which helps educate minority, under­privileged children before kindergarten. He also believes that college loans should be­come more accessible, not more restricted. Tim believes in affordable health care for all and a sound environmental policy that favors the development of a program 
education is especially inspiring to me as a student. In my high school years, the problems of education were very recognizable. I support the fact that he is working so hard to provide improved educational programs that work in our society. 
Congressman Hiler is also committed to the environmental problems confronting the United States as we move into the 1990s. He recognizes that the United States will require high conservation and wise management of our natural resources. 
Hiler feels that groundwater protection must be a top environmental priority for Congress. He has supported legislation that has had direct impact on groundwater protection and has worked with Indiana's local communities on protecting their groundwater. 
Along with groundwater protection, Congressman Hiler also has taken firm action to reform our nation's solid waste laws. Everyone is aware of the shortage of landfill space. This problem is especially pertinent to Indiana since it is estimated that this state's landfills have only eight years of useful life left. Therefore, Hiler has introduced his own bill and co­sponsored many pieces of legislation to address this problem. His own bill focused on states having the right to ban or place an additional fee on out of state solid waste that is transported across state lines. He has also supported recycling legislation and bills that call for a reduction in the generation of hazardous wastes. 
Groundwater protection and hazardous waste are matters that Hiler acts on for the good of Indiana and betterment of the United States. Hiler also has supported clean air laws and oil-spill liability legislation. He is fighting for preservation of our environment, a battle that is important to our nation's alternative fuel research. 
Thirdly, John Hiler's record while he has served in Congress has been suspect, at best. First of all, he has served on the oversight committees for two of the major scandals in US history. He sat on the Housing Committee which was supposed to oversee the operations of HUD, but he also 
future. I feel Congressman Hiler's work on the environmental problems of our country gives citizens hope for cleaner cities, safer water and a non-polluted society. 
In the Middle East, Hiler supports the troops for the defense of Saudi Arabia, the current United States policy. He believes that the United States has to work with the United Nations to secure world-wide support. Hiler is hopeful for a diplomatic solution and would like to avoid a long standoff. But the major point in Hiler's stand is public and international approval of the United States' actions. He believes this to be essential if we are to resolve this crisis. 
I find Hiler's views of this situation to be comforting in the sense that he believes the United States should work along with the United Nations and not be the sole power in this conflict. It is very important for people to view the crisis as a world conflict and not as the United States against Iraq. I also agree with Hiler's point that the conflict can be resolved without military action. Diplomatic relations need to be involved to avoid an outbreak of war; however, troops in Saudi Arabia are necessary because of the uncertainty of the situation and must be maintained to let Iraq know that we are serious. 
When I think about the hostages in Iraq and the troops in Saudi Arabia, I feel more assured that we are under the strong leadership of John Hiler. It is important that the United States remain powerful and cooperative in the international spectrum. Congressman Hiler recognizes the importance of international relations to the American public and is willing to make tough decisions for the defense of our nation. 
I have talked about three main reasons why I am 
see HILER/page 2 


By Christopher Coury 

The 1980s was a lost decade. The values which made America great were forgotten. Trickle-down economics enabled the wealthy to gain greatly, while the middle and lower classes paid dearly. Our competitive­ness also declined in a major way, as we became a debtor nation for the first time in his­tory. Promises of fiscal control and a balanced budget were forgotten as the United States ran up the largest deficit and national debt in the history of the modern world. 
Our education system continued to decline, and the drug problem erupted into the limelight. Hundreds of thousands of people saw their decent-paying professions disappear and were forced instead to take jobs which paid three to four times less. 
The HUD and Savings and Loan scandals, some of the most despicable in our nation's history, made headlines daily. And, feeling justified by all of these noble accomplishments, congressmen rewarded themselves by voting to double their salaries. 
Tim Roemer believes that this is the time for action. For the United States to return to the greatness it once held, changes are necessary--both in the leadership of the country and in the direction of 
U.S. policies. Tim is confident that he can re-introduce values and the middle-class perspective as the congressman from Indiana's Third District. 
There are four reasons, in particular, why Tim Roemer is the stronger candidate in the Nov. 6 election. 
First of all, Tim Roemer un­derstands both Hoosier and Notre Dame values. Contrary to his opponent's television commercials, Tim is not a stranger to Indiana's Third District. He was born in South Bend and raised in Mishawaka. Also, he has had a close relationship to Notre Dame. Tim earned both his Masters and Doctorate in International Relations here and lived as an assistant rector in Grace Hall for two years. In addition, while working as a Defense and Trade Advisor in the U.S. Senate and during this congressional campaign, Tim has always been eager to talk with and help Domers--whether meeting with students on the Washington Seminar, running as a part of the Grace Hall 24­Hour run or speaking on campus several times a year. 
Tim Roemer contends that the only way our government can improve is through the dedication of value-oriented people, such as those who attend Notre Dame. He has never hesitated in helping Domers, and as a Congressman, he could provide a greater service to us, his constituents. 

.•. 



jAccent j 
Monday, November 5, 1990 page 13 
By BRIDGET ZAPPA troupe writes all its own Accent Writer material; everything is original. Their improv relies on audience 
Looking for an escape from participation. The answers they the grind and sobriety of the provide to questions posed by scholarly life? Well, this is your the troupe give structure to the lucky week! skit.
Irish Accent
At 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday at For example, one improv Club Tuesday on the Saint technique used by Irish Accent Mary's campus, Irish Accent, is called "Jokes." The audience 
the up-and-coming comedy Humor, spark, and Notre Dame students chooses any object they deem improvisational troupe, will worth the efforts of four mem­give you the choice of a new bers of the troupe who must Notre Dame. continually tell jokes about this In its third year of perfor­object until the audience can't mance, the troupe was formed Another first credited to Irish direction to the group, espe­volved around first-century hold back the laughter any in January 1989 as the comic Accent is the distinction of cially in the writing depart­football and the inquiry: What longer. "The more lively the au· brainchild of current juniors drawing the largest audience ment. if Jesus Christ played football? dience, the better the show," Tim Farish and Doug Heberle, ever to Theodore's for a comedy "Some things are so silly, says Farish. who is currently studying performance. And their talent is Stylistically, Irish Accent is you've just got to laugh!" says abroad. growing in leaps and bounds. gearing their material increas­Farish. Destined to become a trade­The featured performers from ingly towards campus, towards Notre Dame may be about mark of the group is their par­this past Thursday's per­With the addition of four new what Notre Dame is about. An many things, but the Nov. 6 ody on the ever congenial Julia formance at Theodore's and for members (Curtis, Scarlett, example of their campus-ori­performance of Irish Accent is Child. Thursday's performance Tuesday's show represent only Klimko, and Hill), the troupe is ented humor was one of their about comedy. As Farish ex­featured "Cooking with Julia part of the entire troupe. Senior almost entirely new. The abun­skits from last year, "The Last plained, the goal of comedy is Child, and her special guests Steve Curtis; juniors Tim dance of talent has given a new Touchdown of Christ." It re-to "catch people off guard." The the Village People." Together Farish, Jason Scarlett, and they sang such rousing disco 
take place again next semester. Hopefully the show is even fun­
Irish Accent performers (left to right) Steve Curtis, Jason Scarlett, Tim Farish and Doug Heberle bounce 
"We're planning on it!" nier!"
around ideas for their next performance which will be held at Saint Mary's on Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. 
Oxford: The city even Hitler couldn't hate 
By TERRY COYNE uate degree in America. The tram ural level. would notice. debate was held. This is an op­Accent Writer system is very dependent on a A student can either play for All the students are who they portunity for students to debate self-motivated student. his or her own college, or can want to be, and everyone re­the most pressing current issue. How does one describe earn a blue (equivalent to an spects that. I have noticed, Last week's topic was Britain's heaven? 'Students here are American varsity letter) by however, that many people policy in Saudi Arabia. 
So perfect that even the Nazis playing for the University. seem to prefer the darker col­There was a host of speakers 
treated with a high
wouldn't destroy it. I tried out for the University ors of the rainbow, brown, on both sides of the policy. During World War II, Hitler degree of respect and tennis team and managed to khaki, and black. During the speeches, other stu· systematically bombed London make the first team. This says Despite Notre Dame's dents were quick to interject
maturity... .'
and most industrial centers of quite a bit about their abilities abysmally low health rating, comments and heckle the England. However, he spared since I did not even make Notre their food is far better than speaker as much as could be
My tutorials have been very
Oxford because he wanted to Dame's B-team. Since I have Oxford's. I eat most of my din­allowed. Verbal fencing oc­
relaxed. One of my dons sips
make it the capital of his new made the team, I will be getting ners at St. Catherine's, and I no curred between every speaker
sherry while discussing philos­
empire. clothes form Wilson and Wim­longer ask the waiters what and the audience. The event
ophy with me. He will often ask 
The city Hitler revered so bledon tickets behind the they are serving. The soup, en­was far more entertaining than 
about my life and how every­
much is now my home. I am a Queen's box at Center Court. tree, and dessert all match the informative.
thing is going. As a result, we 
one-year visiting student at St. They may not be as good in popular fashion colors previ­I promised myself that I
have become good friends. Stu· 
Catherine's College, one of the tennis but the perks are fantas­ously mentioned. However, it would not get up and speak, but 
dents here are treated with a 
38 colleges which make up the tic. gives one a feeling of unjustified because the British students
high degree of respect and ma­
University. I live with three Rowing is a big sport on the inflated self-worth to have were insulting the "Yanks" so
turity, and the students return 
other Americans and one Ox­college level. I row every day waiters serve you. Maybe Notre much I had to add my opinion. I 
the feeling. 
ford student in a flat about five for St. Catherine's. There are Dame can integrate this service walked to the podium, and as
It is a place stinking with 
minutes from the center of three regattas held on the river into its meals. soon as I revealed my native
tradition and history, but is also 
town. Thames, one in each trimester. country, people started yelling.
very fun. On the social side,
Oxford is a relatively large I have been told there are 'The students are After about five minutes of
there are pubs everywhere. I 
town, with all the amenities of a live within 100 yards of five enormous parties, sponsored by brilliant, but thankfully, speaking and attempting to re­
modern city, nestled between beer companies. but hecklers, I finished and was
pubs, which are always filled 
centuries-old buildings and Soccer is the most popular not as competitive as I met with an enormous round of
with students. However, the pub 
streets. To the English, Oxford sport, but American football is thought they would be.' applause.
is less a place to get drunk than 
is the zenith of one's academic making inroads due to the
a place to congregate. Drinking 
career. For three years, under­weekly showing of the San Another unique part of Ox­To the British, this debating
is seen as a secondary activity 
graduates focus their study in Francisco 49ers and Notre ford is the Oxford Union Debat­was intense, but sportsmanship 
to talking.
only one subject area and at the Many students will eat dinner Dame. I am the quarterback on ing Society. This is a student­was more important. It was a end of the third year, students at the pubs and then stay until my college's American football run society, housed in three different experience for me be­take eight "examinations" in 10 team. Once again, this should cause back home in speech and 
closing. All pubs have to close beautiful, independently fi. 
days. How well they do deter­tell you the level of their ability. debate, competitors would like
at 11:00 p.m., except my col­nanced buildings. It is com­
The students are brilliant, to rip your eyes out inside and
mines their academic outcome. lege's, which closes at 11:30 prised of a lending library, a 
The school year is broken up but, thankfully, not as competi­cafeteria, a smoker room, a outside of the competition. But
p.m. and is filled with students 
into eight-week trimesters. during its last half hour. tive as I thought they would be. pub, a jazz cellar, and, of here the two are separate, and During these trimesters, the Most study during the morning, respect for the individual is
Every college has a pub on course, a debating hall. 
students study their field in a the first floor. Ours opens at play sports in the afternoon, The primary function of the maintained. In fact, one girl tutorial and lecture system. A and go to the pubs at night. The who had heckled me through­
11:30 a.m. and closes 12 hours society is to hold weekly de­student will usually have two later. Students often grab a style is laid back but the work bates on important issues. Eight out my speech invited me to get tutorials, each consisting of a beer before lunch and bring it gets done. prime ministers, along with a drink after the debate. 
one-on-one meeting with a with them into the dining hall. Far from being the bastion of such well-known scholars as 
'don' for one hour. uniformity, like Notre Dame, Everything in Oxford is excit·
Sports at Oxford are an inte­Albert Einstein, have been 
Between tutorials I have read students all dress and look dif­ing. I wake up in the morning
gral part of the experience, but members. 
upwards of seven books per tu­ferent. I made a comment that with a smile on my face and
the level is nowhere near that Last week a debate was held 
if someone were to walk down have trouble going to bed for
torial per week. The study is of Notre Dame, even on the in-on the economy, but before the 
more along the lines of a grad-the street totally nude, no one main debate an "emergency" fear that I will miss some fun. 
-----~------------··-·-----------~----~--~-----­
Monday, November 5, 1990 
page 14 The Observer 
Winning isn't everything to SMC basketball coach 
"I'm not worried about the 
area he knows all too well. able to help and takeover if
By JOANNE BRASSIL 

opposition. As long as we're Wood lost his only son to drugs needed." 
Sports Writer 

doing the things we've learned, and alcohol and has committed The Belles season begins this then we're doing it right," says himself to the fight against one Thursday night with a scrim­
"Focus on the fundamentals Wood. "I've always said, if of America's biggest killers. mage at Southwestern Michi­that we've gone over time and you're on this team, you're a Another challenge Wood has gan College at 7 p.m. time again and most player and you're going to get combatted in the last year is "It's a good chance to see the important, don't get caught up playing time." cancer. On March 5, he was di­things that we need to spend a about winning or losing... I Coach Wood began his bas­agnosed as having lymphatic little time on," says Wood of don't care what the score ketball career as a player at lymphoma. Since the cancer the scrimmage. "The girls will board says at the end of the Butler University, where his was diagnosed, he has had all get a chance to play and get game, in my book we're going curriculum preparedg him for a nine chemotherapy treatments. a feel for their game." to be winners." These are the future in teaching and coach­He is now in remission. His The Belles, after finishing 12­words of Gene Hackman ing. own experience with the 10 last year, expect an even
MarvWood

portraying Coach Norman Dale After college, he began disease has given him new more challenging 1990-91 sea­in the movie "Hoosiers". coaching right away. His first in the state. insight and he has volunteered son. The team has been up­In 1954, an obscure Milan job was with French Lick High In 1975, that same team fin­himself on several occasions to graded to the NCAA III and has High School basketball team School, which is, coincidentally, ished ninth in state with a 21-4 speak to groups of cancer added tougher teams from all made a Cinderella run for the the home of Boston Celtic star record. That same year he was patients. three NCAA divisions to their Indiana state title, and won. In Larry Bird (although Wood inducted into the Indiana Bas­With all of the challenges he schedule. With the loss of NAIA a state where basketball is coached there before there ketball Hall of Fame. has had to face,Woods remains All-District player Julie Radke, more than just a game, Milan were any Larry Birds to speak In 1987, he was the NAIA optimistic. along with three other gradu­High not only became a legend, of ). He then moved on to other District 21 Coach of the Year. "I have a great faith. I guess I ated squad members, the but real life coach Marvin schools such as North Central Wood has proven himself in the kind of live one day at a time," Belles will have to rely on only Wood became a hero. Indiana, New Castle and Milan teaching and coaching fields, Woods says. "I've been sur­two returning seniors, center 
Does his name sound famil­High. Last year he retired from overcoming many obstacles rounded by good people and Linda Garrett and point-guard
along the way. After retiring
iar? It should. Not only is Wood Mishawaka High School as a they really help." Mea Tettonborn. 
running for Indiana State teacher and counselor. from Mishawaka last year, he Overall, with all the experi­They say that heroes and le­
Representative, but he is also In his 39 years of coaching set his sights on a new chal­ences Wood has faced over the gends died with the westerns. lenge: the political arena.
the head coach of the Saint and seventh year at Saint past year, he plans to continue Maybe in one sense they did. Mary's basketball team. Mary's, Wood has compiled a Wood's campaign for Indiana coaching Saint Mary's, even if But when it comes to rising to Today, Coach Wood still tries 329-27 4 high school record and State Representative is his first he does win Tuesday's election. the challenges and overcoming
venture in politics. 
to instill in his Saint Mary's is 76-72 at Saint Mary's. In "I don't intend to miss many the obstacles of life, Wood has team those same values that 1974, he coached his One issue Wood plans to games," says Wood, " but in done it all. And that makes him 
Coach Dale preached in the tackle is the continuing battle
Mishawaka High School team to the event, my assistant coach not only a legend at Saint movie. a 20-3 record, finishing fourth against drugs and alcohol, an Don "Popcorn" Cromer will be Mary's, but a legend in life. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Why rent when you can buy? I need MANY Penn State GAs, 3. Mary, is that what you 
a pre-Christmas gift-the NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA 
NOTICES 
Duplex condos for sale.$41 ,000 preferably in groups. Call Paula-really sound like??? ea. or $78,000/duplex. 2 bdrms, 283-4096. 4. It's just a matter of inches. 
only one I'll seeII Erin at 4634, TIX FOR LITTLE SIS PLEASEII 
114 Lewis ........ CALL SARAH 2815 TYPING AVAILABLE 
2 baths, 5. It's either yes or no­
kitchen-all appliances. I NEED PENN ST & Tenn no maybe's.WANTED $2000 down for NO students. tixs.272-6306 -30 degrees, snow flurries 6. If she gives me one more 
287-4082 'Nov. 20, 1987@ psu 
10 mins. from campus. B.J., she'll need braces. 
JUST SAY NOI 'Nov. 19, 1988@ NO 
273-0388 7. I've gotta pee before we
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 30 degrees, cold So. Bend rain 
5 PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. hop on the big M.
Books, corner of NO ave. & mo. Summer, Yr., round, All • Nov. 18, 1989@ psu
Plane ticket to Boston for sale: CALL 716-873-7227. B. We can do 15, hell-we can
Howard. 233-2342 Countries, Corona Del Mar CA -20 degrees, snow flurries 
92625. L-11/20 R-11/25 "Stay HOME, Stay WARM'. do as many as we want! TUTOR WITH PH D & 1 0 YEARS ''''ONLY $190.""" PENN STATE TIX; need 1 Sell me your Penn St. 9. Don't just sit there and UNIVERSITY TEACHING Earn $300 to $500 per week Std.'s or G.A.'s
Please call x4809 student; call Bill x3300 play with it-eat itll 
10. ANDI: FORGET MEN, JUST
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST Reading Books at home. Call CALL Ed 277-8974 
1977 BUICK SKYHAWK,$550 or Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355 BUY ME A VIBRATORIIIIIIIIII STUDENTS IN ECON 1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. 
B.O. Call Najeh (239-5638 days, 
,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 Please Helpllll need 4 Penn WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., State GA'sll Call Pat x4110 
271-1208 nights) Need stud tix for Penn St. Call FRESHMAN FORMAL 
Geoff at 271-5686. «HURRAY FOR
TYPING term 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 HOLLYWOOD»
papers/reports/letters/resumes. WANTED I 2 PENN STATE GA'S. 
TICKETS Call x1594 and sell Greg 2 tix friday , nov. 9 ... 9-1 a.m. 5134 Cathy. home assembly work. 504-646­
Pick up & delivery available. 277-ATTENTION: Excellent income for CALL TEDS X1388. 
to the Penn St. game. Stud. or Haggar Parlor 
Need $$$?Sell GA's -tickets on sale $10.00 ­your ga's to all M-Th 4:30-6:30 in all halls 
1700 DEPT. P5868 DESPERTLY SEEKING 
PENN ST. GA'S AND 
home games. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 

TRAVEL FREEl CAMPUS REPS STUD'STIX WANTED. QUALITY VACATIONS Call tom x1597. I NEED 2 Penn St. G.A.'s or Call Julie 289-1440 Adoption: A caring, devoted >>>LOST<<< TO EXOTIC DESTINATIONS. Studs. Aimee x4112. professional couple wishes to give BRACELET OF GOLD LETTERS AFFORDABLE SPRING BREAK NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs newborn all the advantages of a which spell PACKAGES TO NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LISA 2341574/JIM 2711703 loving, secure home. Expenses I LOVE YOU JAMAICAICANCUNI FREE TOM NEED 4 OR 5 PENN STATE GA'S paid. Call Joan/John collect (212) Obvious sentimental value TRAVEL AND$$. 1-800-426-WANTED: PENN ST GA's
273-0302 CALL PAT AT #1802 496-0661. 
REWARD 7710. 277-7684 HELP MEl
288-7976 HELP LIVE OFF CAMPUS I I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. HEYHEYHEYI NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND 
JOE X2358 
it's cheap, safe & close to NO Make my day NEEDED: AREA FOR THANKSGIVING 
''REWARD'' we're looking for 2 more Sell me 2 Penn GA's PENN ST. AND TENN. WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS I lost my RED PLAID housemates 271-9901 TICKETS John 289-9654 CALL DAVE X1955. UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 
Thanksl X3821 I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S 
in Hesburgh library. VERY high NO HOCKEY IS LOOKING FOR AND 2 STUD TIX GAs
sentimental value (plus, AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND CALL Need 4 PENN ST. WE NEED PENN. ST. GA'S AND BRIAN PEPPARD-it is unique and I would FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050. ARNOLD 3333 BIG MONEY. STUDS. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$. Do you have many Gorilla friends? 
definitely recognize itl) Please call call Rob 259-3268 CALL JEFF OR BOB AT 2235. Geez, I can't associate with you HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR 
2983 with info anymore I NQA. I really need my umbrella! PENN ST. TONY x1590 HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME SEX, SEX, OH, OHI (Or, at very least, dance too well!)
FOR RENTw=J 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Thanks for the smiley faced 
''REWARD'' REALLY, I NEED 4 PENN. ST. 
an attractive studio in lovely old WINDCHILL CALL 273-1364 GA'S. I WILL PAY LOTS OF balloon. You made my weeki FROSTBITE
mansion near NO 255/mo call MONEY FOR THEM. FLO X1696 -Fred 2888595 
NOV17 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at LOST: 14k-gold rope chain PENN ST 283-1818 and leave a message. NEED 3 PENN STATE KLG: Thanks for a great year and bracelet on Stepan Football HOUSE FOR RENT-527 S. Eddy Need I say more? STUD. TIX CALL JIM a lifetime together! Field. GREAT Sentimental St. 6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, eat-in Ryan need 2 stud tix need 2 TN ga's Rick x1750 AT X1910 OR X1911 Love ya, 
x1048

Value. If found, please call Kitchen, Livingroom and finished "Fedotik" Cara x3847 room in basement. $500 security 
I NEED A LOT OF PENN ST. and $500/month plus utilities. GA'S PERSONALS SEMESTER AROUND THE 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS 
Found at Miami game: Contact John at 232-1242. $$$CALL DEREK 234-3356$$$ WORLD TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, FALL 1991 
-one shoe hi ag -one pair of sunglasses FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT DO YOU HAVE PENN ST. TIX? Informational meetings ­Call Matt @3472 to identify. BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE (704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. I NEED 81111 CALL TIM#2704 DO YOU HAVE HIDDEN Nov. 6, 5:30, NO Library 
Auditorium. LOST RING III LOST RINGIIII $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll Nov. 7, 6:30, SMC Haggar. 
CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY ARTISTIC TALENT THAT YOU'VE 
273-9406 OR 283-2805 ALWAYS WANTED TO SHOW? 
Wealthy Physician to Pay be happyl Cristin x3857 
PLEASE, if you found a gold ART EXPO '90 Big Bucks for PENN STATE 
ring with a purple heart-shaped Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap invites ALL members of the NO CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK G.A.'s or STUDS
stone being held by 15 min. Walking from Campus community to sign up for this two hands and with a crown Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 x 1935 ask for Alex I need all the tickets that you informal exhibit Nov. 5 &6, in the DINNER AND DISCUSSION ON on top, CONTACT ERIN at 4634. Rnh x::12::14 SUB office from 3-5 pm, or call THE US INVOLVEMENT AND 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ can sell me for the Tennessee­
I live in 114 Lewis. This ring N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 239-7757. SOCIAL PROBLEMS IN THE HELP -I need PSU GA's 
means so much to me-­or leave a message. PHILLIPINES.
FOR SALE 
PLEEEAASF call Beth at
PLEASE CALLIII FARLEY HALL TRIP FROM HELL 
288-0597

IS IT TRUE ... JEEPS FOR $44 1. I guess he never found anyone TRADITIONAL PHILLIPINO 
THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T? who bruises so easily DINNER LOST RING III LOST RING III CALL FOR FACTS I I need two tickets for Penn State. 2. It was the first time $3.00 Gold Clataugh (sp?) ring ... 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840. GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. anything like that ever 5:00-6:00 PM WEDNESDAY 
two hands holding a heart­happened. VVhathappened?? NOVEMBER 7, CSC shaped purple stone, with a CD Player,' Stereo cabinet, mise I need two tickets for Penn State. Well, put your mind in the 
Need 2 Penn St. GA's 
crown on top...PLEASE contact electronic equip. 272-41 08, Steve Jay x2290 GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. gutter. sdgf me if you've found itlll It was 
Monday, NovemberS, 1990 
Wo111n's lnterhall Football PlayoHs 
Men's lnterhall Football Playoffs 
14 Off"· 17 (3-1) 
2:00p.lll. 
15 Fisher 6 
(3·1) 
(J::!}(§)W 4) 
13Aiumnl 26 
(4-0) 
1:00"" 
tl6 Stanford 3 
(1-1-2) 
14 Off-Camoue 
2:00p.m. 
11Grace 
~flfl 

08§JW 11lB 
2:30p.m.
13 Alumni 
3:00p.m. 
12 Sorln 
(4-0) 

NHL STANDINGS 
All Times EST 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division 
w l T Pll ~ GA NY Rangers 11 
5 0 22 67 40 New Jersey 9 5 1 19 
59 48 Washington 9 7 0 18 52 50 
Philadelphia 
8 7 0 16 58 53 Pltisburgh 7 6 1 15 64 54 NY Islanders 10 
0 8 36 61 Adams Division Montreal 8 6 2 18 53 50 Boston 
7 5 2 16 43 50 Buffalo 5 
5 4 14 45 41 Hartford 4 
8 2 10 33 48 Quebec 3 9 
3 9 40 61 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division  
w l  T  Pta  ~  GA  
Chicago 10 6  0  20  52  37  
St. Louis 9 4  1  19  51  39  
Detroit 7 5  3  17  58  57  
Minnesota 3 9  4  10  42  60  
Toronto 2 13  1  5  42  80  
Smythe Division  
Calgary 11 5  0  22  68  45  
Los Angeles 1o 4  1  21  66  46  
Vancouver 7 7  0  14  42  46  
Winmpeg 6 8  1  13  48  47  
Edmonton 2 8  2  6  31  37  
S11turday'a Games  
Chicago 3. Philadelphia  
Bulfalo 4. Boston 1  
St. Louis 4, Hartford 1  
Washington 5, N.Y. Islanders 2  
Pittsburgh 3, N.Y. Rangers 1  
Minnesota 2, Quebec 0  
New Jersey 5, Edmonton 2  
Montreal 5. Detroit 2  
Calgary 7, Toronto 3  
Winnipeg 5, Vancouver 3  
Sunday's Games  
Buffalo 2. Calgary 1  
Minnesota 2, Montreal 2, tie  
Philadelphia 7, Toronto 1  
los Angeles 2, Chicago 0  
Monday's Game  
Boston at N.Y. Rangers. 7:35 p.m.  
Tueaday'a Gamea  
Chicago at Hartford, 7:35 p.m.  
Toronto at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35 p.m.  
Calgary at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m.  
Washington at Quebec, 7:35 p.m.  
Edmonton at St. louis, 8:35 p.m.  
Philadelphia at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m.  
Detroit at Vancouver. 10:35 p.m.  
NHL LINESCORES  
AI Buffalo, N.Y.  
Calgary 1 0  0--1  
Bulfalo 1  0--2  

First Period-1, Calgary, Gilmour 3 (Ranheim, Suter), 2:12. 2, BuHalo, Ray 1 (Savage, 
Tucker), 2:55. Second Perlod-3, BuHalo, Snuggerud 1 (Ramsey, Ruuttu), :54. Third Period-None. Shots on goal-Calgary 14·10·11-35. Buffalo 6·9·6-21. Goalies-Calgary, Vernon. Buffalo, Malarchuk. A-15,034. 
At Chicago los Angeles 0 1 1-2 Chicago 0 0 0--0 First Period-None. Second Period-1, Los Angeles, Robitaille 8 (Eiik, Gretzky), 6:44 (pp). Third Perlod-2, Los Angeles. Kasper 2, 19:59 (en). Shots on goal-Los Angeles 12·10-2-24. Chicago 11·15-1..-o. Goalies-los Angeles, Berthiaume. Chicago, Balfour. A-17,472. 
Scoreboard 
East  EAST  
w  l  T  Pet  PF  PA  Army 35, Rutgers 31  
Bulfalo  7  0  .875  229  136  Boston U. 26, Maine 24  
Miami  7  1  0  .875  175  93  Cornell 41, Yale 31  
NY Jets  4  5  0  .444  175  199  Dartmouth 34, Columbia 20  
lndnplis N England Central  2  5 7  0 0  .286 .125  105 120  162 244  Delaware 35, Connecticut 21 Harvard 52, Brown 37 Holy Cross 43, Bucknell 1 4  
Cincnnati  5  4  0  .556  212  225  lafayette 59. Fordham 14  
Ptisburgh Houston  5 4  4 5  0 0  .556 .444  171 194  147 169  Lehigh 52, Colgate 7 Notre Dame 52, Navy 31  
Cleveland  2  7  0  .222  128  235  Penn St. 31. West Virginia 19  
Weal  Princeton 34, Penn 20  
LA Raidrs  6  2  0  .750  154  108  Rhode Island 31, Northeastern 11  
Kan. City San Diego Denver  5 4 3  3 5 5  0 0 0  .625 .444 .375  176 195 190  121 156 205  Syracuse 35, Boston College 6 Villanova 10, New Hampshire 7 SOUTH  
Seattle  3  5  0  .375  158  166  Alabama 22, Mississippi St. 0  
NATIONAL CONFERENCE  Citadel 23, VMI  3  
East  Clemson 20, North Carolina 3  
w  l  T  Pet  PF  PA  Duke 57, Wake Forest 20  
NYGiants  7  0  0  1.000  171  96  E. Kentucky 30, Austin Peay 14  
Washingtn Phil a  5 4  3 4  0 0  .625 .500  185 199  141 172  East Carolina 24, Memphis St. 17 Florida 48, Auburn 7  
Dallas  3  6  0  .333  119  180  Florida St. 41, South Carolina 10  
Phoenix  2  6  0  .250  103  195  Georgia Southern 31, James Madison 13  
Central  Georgia Tech 41, Virginia 38  
Chicago Tampa Bay Detroit  7 4 3  1 5 5  0 0 0  .875 .444 .375  199 163 206  102 208 220  Howard U. 49, Morgan St. 13 Louisiana Tech 31 , NE louisiana 7 Marshall 50. Appalachian St. 0  
Green Bay Minesota West  3 2  5 6  0 0  .375 .250  147 177  180 181  Massachusetts 26, Richmond 9 Miami, Fla. 45, Pittsburgh 0 Mississippi 19, LSU 10  
San Fran  8  0  0  1.000  198  138  Morehead St. 69, Murray St. 6  
Atlanta  3  5  0  .375  208  221  S. Mississippi 14, SW Louisiana 13  
LA Rams  3  5  0  .375  191  227  Southern U. 48. Florida A&M 30  
New Orlns  3  5  0  .375  136  157  Tennessee 41 , Temple 20  
Sunday's Games Pittsburgh 21, Atlanta 9 New York Jets 24, Dallas 9 Philadelphia 48, New England 20 New Orleans 21, Cincinnati 7 Miami 23, Phoenix 3 Kansas City 9, Los Angeles Raiders 7 San Francisco 24, Green Bay 20 Washington 41, Detroit 38, OT Buffalo 42, Cleveland 0 Chicago 26, Tampa Bay 6 Los Angeles Rams 17, Houston 1 3 San Diego 31, Seattle 14 Minnesota 27, Denver 22 Monday's Game New York Giants at Indianapolis, 9 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 11 Atlanta at Chicago, 1 p.m. Indianapolis at New England, 1 p.m. Miami at New York Jets, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m. Phoenix at BuHalo, 1 p.m. Seattle at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Tampa Bay at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Denver at San Diego, 4 p.m. Green Bay at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. New York Giants at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. San Francisco at Dallas, 8 p.m. OPEN DATE'S: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston, Pittsburgh Monday, Nov. 12 Washington at Philadelphia, 9 p.m. NBA STANDINGS  Tennessee St. 36, Tennessee Tech 14 Tn.-Chattanooga 23, W. Carolina 21 Virginia Tech 20, N. Carolina St. 16 William & Mary 38, Furman 28 MIDWEST Ball St. 13, Cent. Michigan 3 Bowling Green 20, Kent St. 16 Colorado 27, Nebraska 12 Iowa 54. Illinois 28 Kansas St. 28, Iowa St. 14 Louisville 41, Cincinnati 16 Miami, Ohio 34, E. Michigan 14 Michigan 38, Purdue 1 3 Michigan St. 45, Indiana 20 Minnesota 21 , Wisconsin 3 N. Illinois 31, Akron 28 Ohio St. 48, Northwestern 7 Oklahoma 55, Missouri 10 Toledo 37, W. Michigan 9 W. Illinois 24, S. Illinois 22 Youngstown St. 27, Ohio U. 0 SOUTHWEST Houston 56, Texas Christian 35 Kansas 31, Oklahoma St. 30 Rice 19. Arkansas 1 1 Texas 41, Texas Tech 22 Texas A&M 38. Southern Meth. 17 FAR WEST Arizona St. 34, Oregon St. 9 Boise St. 31, Montana St. 27 Brigham Young 54. Air Force 7 California 31, Southern Cal 31 , tie Colorado St. 17, Wyoming 8  
All Times EST EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division w Boston 2 Philadelphia 2 Miami New York Washington New Jersey 0 Central Division  l 0 0 0 1 2  Pet 1.000 1.000 1.000 .500 .500 .000  GB 1/2 1 1 2  l10 2-0 2-0 1·0 ,_, ,_, 0·2  Streak Won2 Won2 Wont Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 2  E. Washington 33, Idaho St. 26, OT Fresno St. 45, UNLV 18 Idaho 52, N. Arizona ·7 Nevada 34, Montana 27 Oregon 28, UCLA 24 Pacific U. 41, Portland St. 35 San Diego St. 66, Utah 14 San Jose St. 44, Fullerton St. 6 Stanford 31, Washington St. 13 Utah St. 55, New Mexico St. 1 0 Washington 54, Arizona 10  
Atlanta Detroit  2 2  0 0  1.000 1.000  2-0 2-0  Won2 Won2  TRANSACTIONS  
Charlotte  1  .500  1-1  Won 1  BASKETBALL  
Indiana  .500  1·1  Lost 1  Continental  Baaketball  Aaaoclatlon  
Milwaukee Chicago o 2 Cleveland 0 2 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division w l San Antonio 0 Dallas 1 1 Minnesota 1 1 Utah 1 1 Denver 0 2 Houston 0 2 Orlando 0 2 Pacific Division LA Clippers 2 0 Portland 2 0 Seattle 0 Golden State Phoenix 1 LA Lakers 0 1 Sacramento 0 2 Saturday'• Gamea San Antonio 110, LA Lakers 99 Atlanta 121, Indiana 120 Detroit 106, Cleveland 97 Boston 106, New York 103  .500 .000 .000 Pet 1.000 .500 .500 .500 .000 .000 .000 1.000 1.000 1.000 .500 .500 .000 .000  1 2 2 GB 1/2 1/2 1/2 112 1/2 1/2 1/2 1 1 1 1/2 2  1·1 0·2 0·2 l10 1-0 1-1 ,_, 1-1 0·2 0-2 0·2 2-0 2·0 1 ·0 1-1 1·1 0-1 0-2  Won 1 Lost 2 Lost 2 Streak Won 1 Won 1 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 2 lost 2 Lost 2 Won2 Won2 Won 1 lost 1 lost 1 Lost 1 Lost 2  CEDAR RAPID&-Waived Ricky Ross, guard, and Daryl Braden, Earl Walker and Carl Mitchell, forwards. FOOTBALL National Football League KANSAS CITY CHIEFs-Activated Deron Cherry, safety, from the physically-unable­to-perform list. LOS ANGELES RAIDERs-Activated Bruce Wilkerson, offensive tackle, and Garry Lewis, cornerback. Waived Bruce Klostermann. linebacker, and Doug lloyd, running back. LOS ANGELES RAMs-Activated Darryl Henley, cornerback. Waived Alfred Jackson. wide receiver. PITISBURGH STEELER&-Piaced Tunch llkin, offensive tackle, on injured reserve. HOCKEY National Hockey league PHILADELPHIA FlYER&-Recalled Pete Peeters, goaltender, and Murray Baron, defenseman, from Hershey of the American Hockey league. Sent Bruce HoHort, goaltender, to Hershey.  ..  
Charlotte 104, Orlando 97 Philadelphia 112, New Jersey 11 O,  OT  NBA BOX  
Washington 103, Chicago 1 02 Dallas 140, Denver 110  GOLDEN STATE (107)  
Milwaukee  11 1,  Minnesota 93  Mullin  10·18 5·6 26,  Tolbert 4-7 4-4  12.  
Utah 102, Phoenix 101  Lister 3·3 5·6  11 , Hardaway 8·18 2·4  18.  
Seattle 118,  Houston  106  Richmond 7-16 1·2 16,  Johnson 2·3 2-4 6,  
Sunday's  Portland 95, Sacramento 93, OT Game LA Clippers 109, Golden State 107  Higgins 2-4 3·4 7, Marciulionls 0·5 7-8 7 Pritchard 2·2 0-0 4, Hill 0-0 0-0 0. Tot~ls 38·76 29·38 107.  
Tuesday's Games New Jersey at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Minnesota at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at New York, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8 p.m. Denver at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Detroit at Seattle, 10 p.m. LA Clippers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Portland at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Atlanta at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m.  LA CLIPPERS (109) Smith 4-1 2 1·2 9, Norman 1 0·17 6·9 26, Bannister 4-5 1-11 9, Kimble 4-13 2-2 11, Grant 6-10 6·7 18, Vaught 3·5 2-2 8, Garland 2·7 6·6 10. Garrick 2·8 0·0 4, Martin 5·10 3·9 13, Butler 0-1 1·2 1. Totals 40-88 28·50 109. Golden State 34 29 23 21-107 LA Clippers 16 31 42 20-109 Technlcala-Mullin, Kimble, Golden State illegal defense.  
A-11.173.  


The Observer/Kevin Weise Irish fullback Rod Culver barrels into the endzone as a Midshipmen defender unsuccessfully attempts to pull him down. Culver carred the ball nine times for 55 yards on Saturday. 

Rocket Ismail sprints down the field in the Meadowlands during his 54 yard reception and touchdown in the fourth quarter. The Heisman Trophy candidate earned over 200 allpurpose yards in his fourth straight game, including eight rushes for 47 yards and six catches for 173 vards. 


Monday, November 5, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Wakiihuri and Panfil victorious in humid NYC marathon 
NEW YORK (AP) -Foreigners continued their domination of the New York City Marathon but the winners weren't Juma Ikangaa or Grete Waitz. 
Douglas Wakiihuri, a Kenyan who trains in Japan, was the overall winner and Poland's Wanda Panfil. who lives in Mexico, was the women's win­ner in Sunday's race which was plagued by heat and humidity. 
It was the third straight marathon victory for each. 
Ikangaa, who had captivated New Yorkers last year by win­ning in course-record time, and Waitz, who had won the race an astonishing nine times, both wound up fourth in their re­spective divisions. 
For Waitz, the result was dif­ferent than anything she had experienced in New York. It was the first time she had fin­ished the race without winning. Nevertheless, she was not disappointed. 
"It was so much more impor-
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The ND/SMC Ski Club will hold a meeting today at 8 p.m. in Rm. 127 Nieuwland Science Building. This is the last chance to sign up for the Christmas trip to Steamboat, CO and balance payments will be collected for those who have already signed up. Sign-ups for tryouts will also be taken at this meeting. Bring your checkbook. 
The Raiders defeated Team X 16-6 for the 1990 Grad/Faculty football championship Friday evening. Mike Rogers threw for two touchdowns, and Matt Warner added a 21-yard field goal. The Raiders finished 6-0, 4-0 in the regular season. 
Pat Sullivan, a freshman on the Notre Dame men's soccer team, was named to the MCC All-Newcomer team. The Irish lost on Thursday to St. Louis 1-0. See Tuesday's Observer for full details. 
tant to finish, because of all 
the circumstances with this 
race," she said. 
This was her first marathon in two years and she was run­ning for Fred Lebow, the race director who was diagnosed in February with brain cancer. 
"It shows I can be competi­tive again,' Waitz said. "But to be competitive at this level of marathoning, I need more than three months of training." Since Waitz, of Norway, ran the marathon for the first time in 1978, no American has won 
. the women's division. The last 
American women's champion 
was Miki Gorman in 1977. 
The last American men's win­ner was Alberto Salazar in 1982, when he took the title for the third time. 
Kim Jones of Spokane, Wash., finished second among the women for the second straight year, five seconds behind Panfil to make it the closest finish in the race's 21-year history. 
Panfil was timed in 2 hours, 30 minutes, 45 seconds, Jones in 2:30:50. It was the slowest winning women's time since Waitz's 2:32:30 in 1978. 
Wakiihuri, who bolted away at 20 miles, clocked 2:12:39, the slowest since Orlando Pizzolato ofltaly won in 2:14:53 in 1984, when the temperature reached 79 degrees, the hottest in race history. 
Sunday, the temperature got as high as 72 degrees and the humidity peaked at 66 percent. Ken Martin of Dallas, the runner-up last year, failed to finish this time. Bothered by a virus for the past two months, he dropped out after 19 miles . 
The first American finisher was Gerry O'Hara, a 26-year­old New Yorker who was 29th in 2:26:15. Mohamed ldris of Brooklyn, N.Y., who finished 22nd in 2:22:23, originally was announced as the top American, but race officials later determined he was an Egyptian citizen. 
It was Wakiihuri's first marathon in the United States and the third for Panfil, who did not finish the '88 New York City Marathon, after falling near the 16-mile mark and suf-

BENGAL 
1. BOUTS 
NO 

NOTRE DAME BOXING 
ATTENTION BOXERS 
Mandatory Physical 
All those who want to box at Notre Dame, must receive a physical this Tuesday. Those who do not receive a physical must retain a private physician to do so. All participants in the Bengal Mission Bout tournament next semester must have a physical and the requisite medical and insurance forms prior 
to school beginning in January 1991 
Any Questions call Norm Conley, 233-8133 or another officer 
Tuesday, November 6 University Health Services Center 
7:00pm 
fering a bruised ankle. Wakiihuri was unfazed by the weather. 
After staying with the lead pack for the first 20 miles, the cool, composed Wakiihuri took control and pulled away to a 40-second victory over Salvador Garcia of Mexico, winner of the '89 New Jersey Waterfront Marathon. 
Garcia said he suffered blis­ters on both feet about halfway through the race. Otherwise, he said he thought could have beaten Wakiihuri. 
Wakiihuri, however, appeared very strong. 
"When I broke away, I knew I was feeling good," he said. "Up to 20 miles, I was not running so hard. I was just relaxing. 
"I wasn't expecting anyone to come with me. If I was leading by 20 miles, I knew they couldn't keep up with me.." 
Waitz, 37, running the marathon for the first time in two years, because of injuries, including a stress fracture of the pelvis and a lower back strain, struggled to finish fourth in 2:34:34. 
I We need vou. 


American Heart Association 
,\'' ,, ,,,,
~h·.~
Give to the United Way. 
"' 

When you party ren1en1ber to... 

Don·! g('l lll"l'l"hl'd.lhoun·IHll ~olwr-or 10nin· mll ~un· ll'l ~Oilll'OIIl'l'i~l'lhl till' dm111g 
\ 1111'"1:'\:l~t' J'IH\H\rd lh 1111"'111'\\-.jl.l[ll'l 
.uullk('IJ)nnht·t'"' \ttlt'tn.l 

Na111 111al lll'adquartl'r~ l'iO Paularino :\Vl' .. Suill· 1')0 Cosla \ll'~a. C:\ 'l2h2h -,.• 'i'i-:'-~.~.~­
I·KOO··H 1·25.~­
f,. t'l (II HI I-• 1 • • 1 \1111 r ,, ,, ·" ,11••·11 ,•t•ol,:, •, o.n lll"lolltt·f~/•1f 1 
I,, '.!.1111 till 'I· "'" !Ill' '" ·'' ' ".. .... I 'I ' 1 .. 1 "' ~I 

---~-----------­
page 18 

r--­
~ Navy 
Continued from page 24 

the next 15 plays, the last being a one-yard run by freshman fullback Jerome Bettis for the first touchdown of his Notre Dame career. 
The Midshipmen came right back. Quarterback Alton Griz­zard passed 44 yards to tight end Dave Berghult to the Notre Dame 12. After Navy drove to the one-yard line, the Irish stopped the Middies four straight time, only to have out­side linebacker Devon McDonald draw a pass interference call on fourth down in the endzone. Two plays later Jason Pace tied the game at seven with a one­yard touchdown run. 
The Irish and Midshipmen then traded field goals on long drives and went into the locker room tied at 10. 
"What we said at halftime is that we will get the ball to start 
Defense 
Continued from page 24 

right sideline, where he was upended for a two-yard loss by Greg Lane and Devon McDon­ald. 
"We expected them to try something," admitted Lane. "We just kept our responsibili­ties on that play -they had al­ready surprised us with the wishbone. "At halftime, we just felt like we had to come out and establish ourselves on defense. We wanted to give our offense a chance to do something." What adjustments did the Irish make after their halftime wake­up call? 
"We got our assignments back," said Williams. "We had to all be sure who had the quarterback and who had the pitch man. Still, I'm not at all pleased. I'm only pleased that it was a win." 
Yet the Irish defense made one key adjustment that had to be made regardless of the Navy wishbone. 
The Notre Dame defensive corps adjusted to the absence of Outland and Lombardi Trophy candidate Chris Zorich. 
Sophomore Eric Jones, who played the entire game at nose tackle, notched six solo tackles and one assisted tackle, result­ing in six lost yards for Navy. 
"Starting was enjoyable," confessed Jones. "I still have some things to work on -I need to improve the fundamentals and keep learning. I just made sure I held my gap and helped 
TURKEY SHOOT 
TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 
NOVEMBER 13&14 STADIUM RIFLE RANGE CALL NVA FOR DETAILS 239-6100 
with, and we would just have to be productive with it each time," Holtz said. 
Notre Dame did just that, scoring three touchdowns in the first 10 minutes of the second half to take a 31-10 lead. Fullback Rodney Culver started the onslaught with a seven-yard touchdown run, tailback Ricky Watters kept it going with a two­yard dive into the endzone and quarterback Rick Mirer capped it with a 30-yard scramble to paydirt when he couldn't find an open receiver. 
Navy did not roll over and die at that point, but every time the Middies scored, the Irish an­swered. Grizzard, who finished the game with 93 yards on 18 carries, scored late in the third quarter on a six-yard keeper, but Notre Dame countered with a seven-play, 48-yard drive which culminated in tailback Tony Brooks' three-yard touchdown run. Navy struck again with 3:46 left 
out on the tackles. Right now, we've just got to get ready for Tennessee." 
Lane, however, shared Williams' dissatisfaction. ''I'm not satisfied at all," la­mented Lane. "We [the defense] did not play well at all -we certainly did not play to our capabilities. We were frustrated with ourselves." Luckily, perhaps, for the Irish, such frustration was not characteristic of their perfor­mance on offense. 
"I though we did a good job," said tight end Derek Brown. "We scored 52 points and we didn't have to punt once. We won, too, so that helps us. We were waiting to get out on the 
The Observer 

in the game on a 19-yard pass from Grizzard to Berghult, but Notre Dame countered just 1:32 later on a 54-yard pass from Mirer to Ismail. Finally, the Middies scored with 16 seconds left on a seven-yard pass from Grizzard to William Mason, but on the ensuing kickoff the Irish had the last word when Todd Lyght returned the onside kick 53 yards down the right side­line for the final margin of 52­31. 
Holtz was unhappy with the play of his defense, but said he could not evaluate the nature of his squad's troubles until he saw the game films. He would not allow that the loss of All­American Chris Zorich (knee injury) was the only reason for Notre Dame's defensive woes. 
"You can't lose an individual like Zorich and not feel the ef­fect of it, but it shouldn't have had that big of an impact. Navy just did an excellent job," Holtz said. 
field -we didn't really touch the ball in the first half." 
Given the fact that the Irish moved the ball well, but had difficulty stopping the Navy at­tack, it should come as no sur­prise that the Irish gave a sober assessment of how they must prepare for Tennessee. "We just need to work on the fundamentals and get better," said Lane, summing up the sentiments of the entire de­fense. 
"We need to do work all around," noted Brown. "We need to work on everything ­running, pass blocking, screens, draws -all of those things. 
WORD! 

-----~-~-~-------~~------­
Monday, November 5, 1990 
The Observer/ Ken Osgood 

Jerome Bettis escapes a Middie defender on one of his four rushes. The freshman had 24 yards and his first Notre Dame touchdown. 
The name of the event IS• 
ART EXPO ~90 
and we (SUS) want to invite all campus and oH-campus artistically inclined people (including faculty) to participate by submitting 2-D or 3-D original works. Sign-ups are today and tomorrow in SUS oHice from 3-5 or call 239-7757. 

"I was raised on Notre Dame. My grandfather taught here, both my mom and dad work here, and I got my Ph. D. at Notre Dame. Notre Dame is a place where I learned about values and about government. These kinds of values--fairness, integrity, and dedication--are what we need in Washington, and that's what my campaign is all about. I would appreciate your support on November 6th." 

TIM ROEMER--ND GRAD '82, '85 
TIM ROEMER IS STANDING UP FOR US! 
VOTE-NOVEMBER 6TH 
Paid for by Hoosiers for Tim Roemer, Fred Crowe Treasurer 



~------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------~­
Monday, November 5, 1990 The Observer 
Offense surprises Coach Holtz 
52 points and you can't even year. That day, Mirer was 5-of-
By KEN TYSIAC and DAVE 
play your second unit," Holtz 16 for 85 yards and one inter­
DIETEMAN 
said. "I think, like all year, ception.
Sports Writers 
we're in a state of disarray, it Against Navy, Mirer passed for seems, at times, but our 265 yards -his highest singleEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
football team-! can't fault game total to date. Mirer also -The story of Notre Dame's them." completed his longest pass (and52-31 victory over Navy was The Notre Dame defense gave longest touchdown pass) of the very much a tale of two units up 382 total yards against the season -a 54 yard strike to going in different directions. 
Midshipmen, 221 of which Raghib Ismail. On the day, Mirer 
The Irish offense was 
came on the ground. The Irish was 12-of-20 with one in­
outstanding against a Navy 
also surrendered 31 points, the terception, one touchdown and defense which had impressed most they have given up one sack. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
against the Middies since 1963, Mirer rushed eight times for "I thought that offensively we when Navy defeated the Irish 34 yards, including a 30 yardplayed well," Holtz said. "I had 35-14 at Notre Dame Stadium. touchdown scamper, his longest a lot of respect for Navy's de­Disappointed tailback Tony run of the year. 
fense coming into this football Brooks summed up the situa­••• game. With the exception of a tion best. Notre Dame gained 477 yardscouple of big plays against Vir­"We've got the talent," Brooks of offense on 64 plays, for an ginia they had played very well said. "We work too hard to feel average of 7.1 yards per play.
this entire year. I didn't expect like we do after the week is Additionally, seven different us to play that well on offense." 
over. You have to cash the players scored touchdowns for The Notre Dame defense, on check at the end of the week, Notre Dame: Rodney Culver,
the other hand, was 
and I don't feel we did that Raghib Ismail, Tony Brooks,disappointing. After rising to today." Ricky Watters, Rick Mirer,the occasion against Miami two ••• Jerome Bettis and Todd Lyght. 
weeks ago and playing well Saturday was a banner day Lyght returned a kickoff 54 except for a late breakdown for Irish quarterback Rick yards, while Ismail hauled in a last week at Pittsburgh, the Mirer. 54 yard reception. Craig Hen­
Irish took a step backward 
Mirer successfully rebounded trich accounted for the rest of Saturday. 
from the game against Pitts­the Irish scoring, hitting his only "Naturally you're very, very burgh, which was his worst field goal attempt (31 yards)disappointed when you score statistical performance of the and seven PAT's. 
lJi'coming Events 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6 REV. L. WILLIAM YOLTON Executive Director, NISBCO 
, .., (National Interreligious Service Board for
... 


Conscientious Objectors) "The Draft and the Middle East: What are the Chances? Legal, Religious, and Political Questions" 
12:00 noon-Room 101 Law School 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8 
ROSA PARKS 

U.S. Civil Rights Leader "Montgomery to Notre Dame" 
7:00 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium 
YEHEZKEL LANDAU 

Executive Director, Oz veShalom (Religious peace movement In Israel) 
"Making the Land Holy: Peace in the 
Light of the Torah" 

8:00 p.m. -Center for Social Concerns Multipurpose Room 
NOVEMBER 7-10: AME Conference "Values, Rights, and Responsibilities in the International Community: Moral Education for the New Millennium" 
INSTITUTE FOR 
------•-•·~INTERNATIONAL 
111111~~~~~~!:~ 
On Saturday, Midshipmen quarterback Alton Grizzard be­came the fourth Navy player to ever go over 2,000 yards rush­ing in his career. Grizzard, who rushed for 93 yards on 18 car­ries and completed nine of 14 passes for 161, now has rushed for 2,07 4 yards in his career on 557 carries... lsmail's fourth­quarter touchdown was the 16th of his career. 
ND is number one in new college poll 
By RENE FERRAN 
off Virginia. 
Sports Writer 

One of the biggest decliners 
this week is Auburn, 48-7 Notre Dame reclaimed the top losers to Florida. The Tigers spot in this week's National fell from No. 4 to No. 15. Illi­Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll, nois tumbled from No. 6 to No. released late Sunday night. 17 after losing to Iowa. The Irish, 52-31 victors over Penn State, Louisville, Michi­Navy on Saturday, received 12 gan, and Oregon are this of 26 first-place votes and 521 week's newcomers to the Top total points. 20. Washington moved up five.--------------; positions after thrashing Ari­
The National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll 
zona 54-10. The Huskies gar­
with last weak's ranklngs. first place votes 
In parentheses. records, and total points.
nered nine first-place votes 
and 486 total points. Houston 
1 (2) Notre Dame (12) 7·1 521 2 (7) Washington (9) 8·1 488 3 (5) Houston (3) 8·0 457 
received three first-place votes 
and jumped two spots to num­
4 (9) Colorado (2) 8-1-1 433
ber three, while Colorado 
5 (8) Miami 6·2 40t 6 (15) Iowa 7·1 339 7 (16)Georgla Tech 7-0-1 319 
gained the other two first­
place votes and leaped from 
8 (1) VIrginia 7-1 310
ninth to fourth in the poll. 
9 (tO)Brlgham Young 7-1 281 10 (1 t) Tennessee 5·1·2 278 11 (2) Nebraska 7·1 277 
Last week's number one, Vir­
ginia, fell to eighth after losing 
12 (14) Florida 7·1 273 
to Georgia Tech 41-38, while 
13 (12) Florida State 6·2 231 14 (13) Texas 6·t 204 15 (4) Auburn 8·1-1 173 
Nebraska tumbled from a tie 
for second to 11th with its 27­
18 (17) Mississippi 8·1 132 
12 loss to Colorado. 
17 (8) Illinois 6·2 117 18 (19) Clemson 8·2 78
Iowa and Georgia Tech were 
19 (nr) Penn State 8·2 39
the biggest climbers in this 
20 (nr) Louisville 8·1·1 36 tie (nr) Michigan 5·3 36 tie (nr) Oregon 7·2 38 
week's poll, each jumping nine spots. The Hawkeyes went from No. 15 to No. 6 by 
Others receiving votes: Oklahoma 8. USC 7. 
defeating Illinois 54-28, while 
Texas A&M 5, Colorado State 1, Michigan 
State 1, Ohio State 1, San Jose State 1, Wyoming 1. 
the Yellow Jackets moved from 
No. 16 to No. 7 by knocking 
page 19 

American Heart e.•a 
Association V' 
P.I.M.E. MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's life through a missionary vocation 
~ 
The Pontifical Institute lor Foreign Missions (tha PIME Missionaries) is an International com­munity of Catholic priests and laymen who make a lifelong commitment to continuing the miSSion of Jeaus Christ In the modern world. We live the Gospel in Bangladeah, Brazil. Hong Kong, India, Japan, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and West Africe among the poor and unchun;hed. 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen 
Founded In Italy In 1850, a group of dioce­your understanding of yourself, your values, your 
san prlesta, at the encour.gement of their relationship with Christ, your experience of Chrlatlan 
bishops, grew in their understanding of just pre­community and aervlce. 
cisely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer and selfless service, especially to the poor. The mis­sionary must learn how to be a sign of shared RETREAT November 30 ­faith betWeen well established European and DATES: December 2, 1990 American local churches and peoples where the Church Is just beginning. The missionary must know how to announce the Kingdom of APPLICATIONS October 31· 
God while b8ing a Ioree for transformation of ACCEPTED: November 7 1990 
those societal values which do not build up that Kingdom. II you are a young man between 18 and 35, CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
in good health and spirits, excited to live your 103 Hesburgh Library 
faith In the missionary way described above, 239-7800 
send In or call for information today. 
Fr. John J. Malkll PIME MISSIONARIES 35750 Moravian Dr. FRASER. MICHIGAN 48026 Phone (313) 791·2100 

Saint mory·s Phonathon 
Participata. for a fow hOU(S and win gr<~at prizgs whilo. you ho.lp Kao.p tuition down! Contact you( hall rap now! 
L(lmans usa X5112 mccandtGss Tioa X5451 Holy Cross: Joyca X4354 
Ragina lisa X4103 Augusta Kathy X5341 
l:l_________________Of_F c_am us X4560 
---~--------­

-~--~~-----------------------~ ---­
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1990
page 20 
Alumni, Off-Campus easily advance in IH Playoffs 
By RENE FERRAN running good routes. Stanford's Sports Writer a good team, but we were a little better today." 
Alumni began defense of its With five minutes left in the men's interhall football cham­third quarter, Ludwig took a pionship Sunday by thrashing draw play, broke a tackle at the Leahy rival Stanford 26-3, line of scrimmage, cut back left while Off-Campus set up a re­and ran 52 yards untouched match with Grace with a 17-6 down the sideline to make the victory over Fisher. score 24-0. Ludwig then added 
ALUMNI 26 STANFORD 3 the PAT. 
Alumni won the battle in the "On the draw play, they trenches on Sunday, and that [Stanford] stacked my right gave quarterback Jim Passin­side, and I saw that before the ault all the time he needed to play," said Ludwig. "Once I got pick apart the Stud secondary. the ball, I cut to the left, and 
"I had a lot of time to pass thanks to the block of the tight today," said Passinault, "but in end [Carretta]. It made the the past, we've been able to run whole play possible." more effectively. Our running Stanford avoided the shutout game got off the ground later in when on the last play of the the game, though." game, Jason Beiter nailed a 32­
After holding Stanford on its yard field goal attempt. opening possession, the Dogs The Dog defense was out­drove 70 yards, scoring on Dave standing all day, maintaining Ludwig's one-yard dive. control of the line of scrimmage Midway through the second and not allowing Stanford the quarter, Passinault completed a chance to get into any sort of 20-yard touchdown pass to rhythm. Chris Logue, who made a diving "They couldn't get anything 
yard field goal. catch in the corner of the end going because we shut down Doherty ran through big holes succeeded. Dillard made 
opened up by John Carlin and several key catches, including a On the ensuing series, Tom zone, to make the score 12-0. their running game," said Dog Tom Sutliff, and the line gave 15-yard grab on a third and Helms intercepted a Rick Ebert
After another Stud punt, coach Paul Szyperski. "We 
quarterback Bob Allard time to eight on Off-Campus' opening pass at midfield. On the nextPassinault went to work again. stuck with our regular 5-3 de­find the open receiver. drive of the game. Three plays play, Dillard caught a littleHe found John Carretta for 16 fense. We stunted a little bit later, Brian Doherty broke off­dump pass from Allard at theyards on third down, and two more, but that was about it." "We didn't do a good job de­
tackle and ran 40 yards for a Fisher 40 and ran for the
plays later, from the Stanford OFF-CAMPUS 17 FISHER 6 fensively," said Fisher coach 
touchdown. Bob Topel added touchdown.
33, hit Carretta in the right flat. The Off-Campus defense Rick Ebert. "They obviously the PAT.
Carretta shook off a couple of dominated the Fisher attack on have some big guys, but they Fisher averted the shutout
Later in the half, the Crime
tackles and ran into the end Sunday. After moving on the didn't have anything new. They late in the fourth quarter. At
drove to the Fisher four. There,
zone. Crime on their opening drive, had some big plays. We did the Crime 22, Ebert rolled out
the Green Wave held, and
Stanford put together its first the Green Wave had a tough have two big goal-line stands . left and tried to hit Mickey
Topel missed a 25-yard field
sustained drive late in the first time generating any type of of­.. but overall, we didn't play Perez. The ball was tipped by
goal attempt. 
half, but time ran out with the fense. Little things killed Fisher up to what we should have to an Off-Campus defender and Studs at the Alumni 17. At half­like mishandling several pull out the victory." In the fourth quarter, Off­Perez dove and caught the ball time, it was 18-0, Alumni. center-quarterback exchanges. The Crime game plan Campus drove again deep into just before it hit the turf. Two 
"Getting our receivers free was Meanwhile, the Off-Campus included getting tight end Fisher territory. Again, how­plays later, as time expired, the key to the game," said offensive line took control. James Dillard more involved in ever, the Fisher defense held, Ebert hit Renzy Smith in the Passinault. "Our receivers were Tailbacks Phil Couri and Brian the offense, and they and Topel drilled home a 30-P.nd zone. 

Are you interested in a challenging career in Marketing and the opportunity to complete an MBA at a distinguished graduate schooll Seniors: If you have the desire to pursue a general management career in Marketing with a leading marketer of consumer foods, we invite you to explore the GENERAL MILLS EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. Come meet and talk with General Mills representatives during our information session on Thursday, November 8,1990 at 7:00PM in Notre Dame Room at Morris Inn. We also encourage you to contact the Career Center for more information about General Mills and the Executive Development Program. General Mills  


Monday, November 5, 1990 The Observer page 21 
AFC races heat up as Raiders and Bengals upset 

SWEATER SPECIAL 

OFF 

Bring in any 3 sweaters or more and get them cleaned for HALF OFF the regular price. 

Limited time only. 

2 Convenient Locations 
Near Campus 207 Dixieway South (Roseland) 272-8093 Ironwood at South Bend Ave. Greenwood Shopping Center 272-9461 
LFE IS YOUR MOST VALUABLE POSSESSION. 
PASS IT ON. t )fall th<: rich~:s you could leave to your familY. the most prn·ious is the gift ot lik. Your heque~t to the 
American Ilean :\~~ociat ion a~sure~ that pricde~' Iegan tn supporting resctrth into heart disease pren·nt ion 
'I(> learn morl· about the Planned Giving Program. call us today. It\ the fir..I step in making a memory that lasts beyond :1 lifetime. 
•
f.•aAmencan Heart ·"'Association 
Th1s space prov1ded as a public serv1ce 
The AFC Central and West races 
tightened Sunday as division 
leaders Cincinnati and the Los 
Angeles Raiders stumbled 
offensively, scoring only a 
touchdown apiece. 
The Kansas City Chiefs (5-3) pulled within a game of the Haiders (6-2) Sunday behind three field goals by Nick Lowery and an aggressive defense that used bad weather to its advantage. 
"The weather conditions were such that we droppped some passes that we normally would have caught," Haiders coach Art Shell said. "Nobody could open up the offense." 
Lowery's third kick, a 41­yarder, came 3:02 into the fourth quarter, exactly three minutes after Steve Smith had gone in from the 2 for the only touchdown of the game, giving the Raiders a 7-6 lead. 
Craig Heyward and Rueben Mayes each rushed for 100 yards as the New Orleans Saints spoiled Cincinnati's long­awaited homecoming with a 21­7 victory. 
The Saints (3-5) simply over­powerr.d the Bengals' defense ­statistically the second-worst in the NFL -while running them out of their first home game in six weeks. The loss dropped the Bengals into a tie for first in the AFC Central. 
"I don't think I've ever felt this low as a professional athlete," said quarterback Boomer Esiason. who completed only 15 of 32 passes for 132 yards. "Today it's right on my shoul­ders. I feel that if I play 10 per­cent better than I did, we prob­ably win the game. I have no excuses." 
In other NFL games, it was Pittsburgh 21, Atlanta 9; New York Jets 24, Dallas 9; Philadelphia 48, New England 20; Miami 23, Phoenix 3; San Francisco 24, Green Bay 20; and Washington 41, Detroit 38 in overtime. 
In late afternoon games, it was Buffalo at Cleveland; Chicago at Tampa Bay; Houston at Los Angeles Rams and San Diego at Seattle. Denver was at Minnesota in a night game and the New York Giants play at Indianapolis on Monday night. 
The Chiefs beat the RaidePs despite generating almost no offense. Kansas City totaled minus-1 yard in the first quar­ter, when Lowery kicked 36­and 48-yard field goals follow­ing a blocked punt and a fumble recovery, and the Chiefs had just 67 yards in the first three periods. 
The Raiders, meanwhile, never advanced beyond the Kansas City 44 until late in the third quarter as both teams seemed bothered by the 20-degree wind chill and occasional rain and sleet and cornerbacks Albert 
Lewis  and  Kevin  Ross  
consistently  thwarted  Jay  
Schroeder's deep passes.  

49ers 24, Packers 20 
Joe Montana rallied San Francisco from a 10-0 deficit with three touchdown passes and the unbeaten 49ers held on to beat Green Bay for their 16th 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI ,....-----This Week Only------......
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
~---~eg~~----Ma*.J.C-~-~ !$5OFF ANYM~~~~ ! 
~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts With Student 1.0. We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
straight victory over two seasons. 
The 49ers (8-0) won their 14th straight regular-season road game. Their last loss was a 21­17 setback to the Packers last November at Candlestick Park. Montana hit Brent Jones with a six-yard touchdown pass with 
12:45 left, giving the 49ers their first lead at 17-10. Steelers 21. Falcons 9 
Pittsburgh pulled into a tie with Cincinnati as Bubby Brister threw second-half touchdown passes to Louis Lipps and Mike Mularkey. 
The Steelers, the NFL's worst­rated defense, took advantage of three Chris Miller-thrown interceptions to beat Atlanta. Miller, the league's fifth-rated quarterback, threw his first in­terception in 116 attempts and 16 quarters on the final play of the first half, then was inter­
cepted twice in the second half. 
Dolphins 23, Cards 3 
Miami won its fifth consecutive game, using its ball-control offense the NFL's top-ranked defense to rout Phoenix. 
The winning streak is the Dolphins' longest in five years, and their 7-1 record at the halfway point is their best since 
1984,  the  last  time  Miami  
reached  the  Super  Bowl.  
Phoenix fell to 2-6.  

Skins 41, Lions 38, OT 
Chip Lohmiller's 34-yard field goal with 5:50 left in overtime climaxed Washington's come­back from a 21-point deficit against Detroit. 
The field goal followed a 12­play drive from the Redskins 10 to the Detroit 17. Jeff Rutledge, who took over at quarterback in the second half, completed five passes for 69 yards in the drive and finished with 363 yards 
passing. 

Eagles 48, Patriots 20 
Randall Cunningham threw four touchdown passes and scrambled for 124 yards and Heath Sherman rushed for 113 more as Philadelphia reached the .500 mark for the first time this season by defeating New England. 
Sherman, starting in place of the injured Anthony Toney, car­ried 24 times as the Eagles (4-4) won their second consecutive game and the Patriots (1-7) lost their sixth straight. 
Jets 24, Cowboys 9 
Rookie Terance Mathis tied an NFL record with a 98-yard punt return, sparking New York over Dallas. 
The Jets (4-5) also benefitted from two personal fouls by the Cowboys (3-6) in winning con­secutive games for the first time this season. 
page 22 The Observer Monday, November 5, 1990 
Women's swim team sets records
Men swimmers beat 
MCC over weekend 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swim team proved their dominance of the MCC Conference this past weekend in the Notre Dame Relay meet on Friday and the MCC Dual Meet Saturday. The men won all meets against St. Louis, Loyola, Xavier, Butler and Evansville and captured firsts in all but two events in three swimming sessions. 
The back to back racing ses­sions took place in a little more than 24 hours. 
"That is both very challenging and very good preparation for the championships that are ahead," said Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. 
They are also a sign of "a team that is preparing itself to step up to a higher level of per­formance," emphasized Welsh. 
In the relay meet the Irish won 12 of 13 events, setting two records and coming within seconds of breaking three other swimming records, two held by powerhouse Texas Christian. David Nathe, Chuck Smith, Greg Cornick and Jim Birmingham swam on the 400 freestyle relay in a record time of 3:12.43. Junior Pat Dugan and freshmen Sean Hyer also teamed together for the 3-Me­ter Diving relay with a record winning score of 401.80. 
"This was a fun meet for them in that it is a relay. They only have to do half of their dives. This takes a lot of pres­sure off them," said diving coach Tracey Brennan. "If we continue to dive at this level we should be in top form by the championship meets." 
The Irish continued demon­strating their depth and power in the Dual Meet Saturday. Of 20 events Notre Dame won all but one. The men maintained a high performance level throughout the meet, including the last event, the 400 free re­lay. 
Although the meet was won and the swimmers were swim­ming in their sixth or seventh event of the day, the Irish fin­ished strong. Chuck Smith an­chored the men's relay in 47.9, his fastest swim of the meet. Smith's performances were solid, and a high level of condi­tioning showed in his third place finish in an off event, the 100 breaststroke . 

.. 
Other strong races were swum by sophomore Greg Cor­nick and freshman Dave Nathe. Both were double winners. Paul Godfrey and Jim Birmingham recorded wins in 
Wrestling 
continued from page 24 
cerned, 126-pounder Marcus 
Gowens was victorious in his 
weight class, as were 142­
pounder Jamie Boyd, 150­
pounder Todd Layton and 190­
pounder Steve King. Mark Ger­
ardi took third place in the 
167-pound category, while 
Chuck Weaver captured second 
place in the heavyweight divi­
sion. 
Three of these Irish grapplers ­
Marcus Gowens, Mark Gerardi 
and Steve King -qualified for 
last year's NCAA champi­
onships. 

the 200 backstroke and 50 free respectively, while Colin Cooley and Roger Rand took first and second in the 200 breaststroke. Sean Hyer also captured a first in the 1-Meter diving. 
Joe Rentz led an Irish pack of flyers, Paul Godfrey, Ed Broder­ick, Jim Byrne, Brian Casey and Jim Boutrous, to a first-sixth placing in the 200 butterfly. The Irish also claimed first­sixth places in the 500 free. Overall the Irish men had a very strong meet. 
Coach Welsh spoke of the MCC Dual Meet as a "colossal scrimmage {if you compare it with other sports). However, unlike a scrimmage, the day ends with almost 60 different dual meet scores." 
Welsh attributed the success of the MCC Dual Meet to the "magnificent work support" of the Sports Information Office. 
"This meet is actually bigger in number of swims and num­ber of swimmers than the MCC Conference Meet will be in February," said Welsh. 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The women's swim team successfully completed a challenging weekend of racing this past Friday and Saturday in the Notre Dame Relays and MCC Dual Meet that were both held at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Notre Dame led the scoring in meets against St. Louis, Butler, Xavier, Evansville, Illinois-Chicago and St. Mary's. 
The women claimed 10 of 13 relay events on Friday night and broke three records, two of which were held by powerhouse Texas Christian. Shannah Mather, Kay Broderick, Amy Tri and Tanya Williams broke the existing 400 individual medley record by almost five seconds with a time of 4:15.89. 
Kristin Heath, Kathleen McKinney, Karen Keeley and Alicia Feehery swam a record time of 8:05.2 in the 800 freestyle relay, and Beth Winkowski, Keeley, Chrissy Ciletti and Christy Van Patten improved the Notre Dame 400 Butterfly Relay meet record with a time of 4:16.02. 
Wrapping up the relay meet for the Irish, Jennifer Stumm and Jennifer Kipp joined to win the 3-Meter Diving and came within five points of the record held by Illinois­Chicago. 
On Saturday, the Irish com­pleted their last two of three racing legs, all of which were swum in a little more than 24 hours. 
The 400 free relay, the last event, showed the Irish power, depth and perfor­mance level. Although all meets were won and all swimmers were swimming in their sixth or seventh event of the day, the Irish maintained their competitive edge. 
Freshman Alicia Feehery capped an impressive week­end performance by anchor­ing the women's relay in her fastest 100 in the meet, 52.7. 
The Irish women raced ag­gressively, winning 19 of the 20 events. Notre Dame captured many top places and claimed all but one of the first nine places in the 200 Individual Medley. Heath, Tri, Christy Moston, Keeley, and Colette LaForce took places one through five. 
Williams, a native of Boca Raton, Fla., swam her fastest 200 backstroke at Notre Dame and set a university record, 2:08.97. Williams also won the 500 free and 100 breaststroke. Heath, a freshmen, recorded triple wins for the Irish, winning the 200 individual medley, 200 breaststroke and 200 fly. Other strong performances included Susan Bodhan and Shana Stephens who earned firsts in the 1000 free, and 200 back, respectively. Tri had a good meet, taking sec­ond places in three events for the Irish. 
Kipp, Stumm, Angela Gugle and Vicki Catenacci, also sealed an event by winning the first four places in 3-Me­ter Diving. Kipp won both the 1-Meter and 3-Meter diving, scoring 259.87 points. Kipp broke the women's 1-Meter Diving record by over 10 points. The old record was set by Andrea Bonny in 1988. 
Kipp also qualified for the the NCAA Zone diving meet to be held in March. 

Monday, November 5, 1990 
The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
• 

Monday ACROSS 31 Notches 54 G. B. Shaw play: 1903
35 Airport abbr. 
1 Practice for a

12:15 p.m. Lecture (Brown Bag Lunch): "International bout &2 Something
36 Misstatements
Prostitution: The Economics of Sex," Patricia Washing­owed
5 Evans or 

39 River in Ireland 
&3-Arledge,

ton, director of M.I.N.T of Saint Mary's College. Room Robertson 304, Haggar College. Sponsored by M.I.N.T. of Saint 40G. B. Shaw TV executive
9 Tennis coups play: 1932 64 Right-hand man

Mary's College and Year of Women. 
13 Plane's fixed 

43 Novel by Jane 65 Jersey is one
route 4 p.m. Lecture: "lllstory-Fiction!Reality-Irreality: A Austen &&Avoid
14 Muslim decree Latin American Perspective," Arturo Arias, University of 44 Receiver of 67 Geraint's
16 Letterman, to 

California at San Francisco. Room 131, Declo Faculty friends goods in trust spouse Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and the department 45 Casablanca-to-&8 Cast off 
17 Graham or of romance languages and literatures. Preminger Tunis dir. &9Walked on 18 Bestowed 46 Distributed, as 70 Permits Tuesday cards
19 Portend 20G. B. Shaw DOWN
48 Fifth note of the 12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag Lunch): "The Re­diatonic scale 
play: 1893 

shaping of Mexico's Development Strategy: Will It Suc­1 Niche 
23 Consume 49 Bus passenger ceed?" Jaimie Ros, Faculty Fellow. Room 131, Decio Fac­2 Lane 
24 Transgress 51 A son of Gad: 
ulty Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 3 Poker stake 
25 Meager Gen. 46:16 4 Unclose again 
28 Altar in the sky 53 Female rei. 
12 p.m. Lecture: "The Draft and the Middle East: What 
5 Toe, e.g. 

Are the Chances? tegal, Religious and Political Ques­
6 Seed covering 

tions," William Yolton, Executive Director, NIBSCO. Room 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Molten rock 
101, Law School. Sponsored by Institute for International 
a Paradise

Peace Studies. 
9 Activity for a decorator 29 Proportion 47--la-la 56 Blockhead 
f'-t.iiiilt'~-+'--+-'-+=i 1 o Arrived 57 Acerbic
30 Coral island 50 Jerusalem is its capital 58 Remove a knot 
MENUS 

11 Always 32 Made dove 59 Dig for ore
12 Cambodian sounds 52 Concerning coin 60 Colliery
33 Monetary unit of 53 Swiftness entranceNotre Dame Saint Mary's 15 Terminates Denmark 54 Network &1 Beatty and 
21 Misanthrope 34 Passover meal 
8:::..+==-+-=:~ 55 Adjective for SparksBBQ Ribs Tacos ---~::+-~ 22 One, in Bonn 37 Polish; 
some seamen &2 Asunder: PrefixShepherd's Pie Tomato Basil Baked Haddock ~:::+:-+.::-+:-:-! 25 Surfeited massage Pasta Bar -No Meat Sauce Brown Rice and Cheesebake 38 Actor Vigoda 
H~:..;+:~,..t~ 26"-Yellow," 
Answers to any three clues in this 
Deli Huxley book 41 Possessing puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Fragrance special aptitude 
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 28 Regions 42Weird minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 




• 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


-


• 
~ 
Sports
' ~ 
oaqe 24 

Monday, November 5, 1990 
~ Notre Dame downs feisty Midshipmen in 52-31 win 

The Observer/Ken Osgood 

t Ismail sparks attack in second half 
[ By KEN TYSIAC 
f 
Associate Sports Editor f I 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-It took a while, but when the Irish offense kicked into gear against 
f t Navy Saturday at Giants I Stadium, the overmatched t Midshipmen were nothing but a speck in Notre Dame's rear­r view mirror. 
r 
Notre Dame (7-1) exploded for t 42 points in the second half to ~ turn a game which was tied at 
~ 
10 at halftime into a 52-31
l 
victory. Leading the way for the
t 
Irish was junior flanker Raghib Ismail, who caught six passes for 173 yards and finished with 219 total yards, going over 200 total yards for the fourth straight game. 
It would have been impossible to predict such a high-scoring game in the first half. Both teams kept the ball on the 
Tim Singleton (10) and the rest of the Irish basketball team will open their season tonight when they host Athletes in Action at 8 p.m. 
ground in the early going. Navy (3-5), which had mixed the run and the pass with a two-back set for most of the season, sur­prised Irish coach Lou Holtz and created problems for Notre Dame's defense by running the wishbone. 
"(Navy coach) George Chaump had been throwing the ball all his career, and had been throwing it (this season) up until then, and we did not expect them to come out (in the wish­bone), although we did say that we could not allow them to run the football. We thought they would try to make it as short a game as possible," Holtz said. Navy controlled the ball for 6:19 after the opening kickoff, driving to the Notre Dame 19 only to miss a 33-yard field goal. The Irish then ran the ball on 14 of 
see NAVY, page 18 


Raghib "Rocket" Ismail is upended by a Naval defender as he grabs 
one of his six receptions. 
Wrestlers win MSU Invitational 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team opened its season with a slam this weekend, winning the Michigan State Invitational in East Lansing. 
The Irish also won last year's tournament en route to finish­ing 7-8 on the season.This year, Notre Dame finished with 
74.75 points, besting Central Michigan (56.5), Boston Uni­versity (53.5), Michigan State (44.5), Ferris State (43.5) and Brockport State (30). The out­standing wrestlers of the tour­nament were Jon Zuccala (Ferris State, 118 lbs.) and Larry Luft (Central Michigan, 167 lbs.). 
Where the Irish were con-
see WRESTLING, page 22 
The Observer/Ken Osgood 

George "Boo" Williams tackles Navy quarterback Alton Grizzard in Saturday's game as teammate Bob Dahl 
(93) looks on. The Irish defense gave up 31 points to the Midshipmen. 
Irish adjust weak defense to Navy's 'new' wishbone 


EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­After dueling Navy to a 10-10 halftime tie, the Fighting Irish devastated the Midshipmen in the second half, scoring 42 points in an offensive broad­side. 
Navy, whose offense utilized a pro-1 formation for all but one half of the 1990 season, sur­prised the Irish by running the wishbone most of the after­noon. 
That bit of Midshipmen chi­canery, combined with the timely play calling of George Chaump and the execution of Alton Grizzard, kept the Navy offense on the field for 17:18 of the first half. 
"The wishbone was a big sur­prise," remarked Notre Dame defensive tackle George "Boo" Williams, who recorded four tackles on the day (two solo, two unassisted, minus four yards). "They haven't run that all year. You've got to respect them -they were tough. 
"We adjusted at halftime -we 
;~~."' .... ,,·: ~,.,: •.!. ;:·. 
.... Y2JF·&ii!%f·. >, -~~:--,~ 
"~ 
The Observer/John Studebaker , 
Dave Dieteman 
Sports Writer 

knew we had to stop them. When their offense got into a rhythm, they were hard to stop; any offense is hard to stop once it gets its rhythm going. When we stopped them on their first series, we relaxed a little." 
On that first Navy possession, the Notre Dame defense held fast. Three Navy backs com­bined for nine yards, as the Middies faced fourth and one from their own 44 yard line. After a timeout, Navy's Dominic Flis took a fake punt to the 
see DEFENSE, page 18 

N D Basketball hosts Athletes in Action 
Special to The Observer sade for Christ. AlA has con­ducted a national tour during Notre Dame students pur­November and December every chasing men's basketball tick­year since 1966. The '90 tour ets this week will get a preview includes stops at UCLA, Indi­of the '90-'91 Irish when they ana, Michigan, Louisville and take on Athletes in Action in an Virginia, as well as Notre Dame. exhibition game tonight at 8 Hicks, who played for the 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC. Irish from '83-'87, is in his first 
Athletes in Action, comprised year with AlA. He started 62 of former college and profes­games during his four-year ca­sional players, includes former reer, averaging 7.5 points per Notre Dame guard Scott Hicks. game. He. also helped guide Proceeds from the game will Notre Dame to the NCAA East benefit Logan Center and the regional as a senior co-captain Neighborhood Study Help Pro­during the '86-'87 campaign gram. before the Irish fell to North 
Tickets for the Athletes in Ac­Carolina. tion game, as well as the Ford­Notre Dame, led by senior ham game on Nov. 15, which captain Tim Singleton, returns are not included in the regular two starters and six lettermen season ticket package, are from last year's 16-13 team that available at $10 for lower lost to Virginia in the first arena and $8 for bleacher round of the NCAA tournament. seating. The Irish are seeking their sev­
Athletes in Action is the ath­enth straight NCAA tournament letic ministry of Campus Cru-appearance in '90-'91. 
Swimmers Win 
Both men's and women's teams dominated the MCC this weekend. See Page 22. 
Irish Number One! 
Notre Dame regains the top spot in this week's College Sportswriters' Poll. See Page 19. 
Men's lnterhall 
Alumni and Off~Campus advanced to the semi­finals in football action. See Page 20. 
-










