
.,. __, 

VOL. XXIII NO. 16 MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 17, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Animal rights group protests Circus Flora 
By RENEE YOUNG 
News Writer 
Members of a local animal rights group staged a protest last Friday against Circus Flora, a group which recently performed on Washington Street in South Bend. 
The protesting group, or the Coalition of Hoosiers Encouraging the Ethical Treatment of Animals, (CHEETA) hoped to encourage education on the issue of animal cruelty. CHEETA members passed out literature to circus-goers regarding what they described as the horrible treatment animals receive in training. The CHEETA organi­zation admitted that the Circus Flora treats its animals better 
than many other animal shows, but they are still caging wild 

On the hot seat 
AP Photo 

Supreme Court nominee David Souter begins testimony for a second day of confirmation hearings before 
animals.

the Senate Judiciary Committee Friday. 
CHEETA is an affiliate of 

Bush calls Iraqis 'isolated'; U.N. weighs new sanctions 
(AP)-As theUnited Nations weighed new sanctions against Baghdad, Iraqi television broadcast a statement by President Bush Sunday in which he warned the Iraqi people that their leader's brinkmanship could plunge them into war "against the world." 
Hours later, thousands of men, women and children marched through the streets of Baghdad, chanting "Death to Bush, Death to America!" 
An official Iraqi response to Bush's statement called it full of "lies and contradictions," and said the U.S. president aimed to be the "dictator of the world." 
Meanwhile, hundreds of Kuwaitis continued to flood into Saudi Arabia Sunday after Iraqi troops opened a border crossing over the weekend, and Kuwait's government-in-exile accused 
Iraq of depopulating the country to resettle Iraqis there. 
The U.N. Security Council unanimously condemned Iraq's raids last week on the French, Belgian, Canadian and Dutch embassy com­pounds in Kuwait, and warned that further sanctions against Baghdad were likely. 
Diplomats also began drafting language for a new resolution to close off Iraq's air routes and punish nations flouting the trade embargo, 
U.S. officials said. 
Bush's address to the Iraqi people, with an Arabic voice­over and captions provided by the State Department, apparently was broadcast in its entirety Sunday evening. 
"Iraq finds itself on the brink of war," Bush said. But "war is not inevitable. It is still possible to bring this crisis to a peaceful end." 


President Bush 

"Saddam Hussein tells you that this crisis is a struggle between Iraq and America. In fact, it is Iraq against the world," said Bush, standing in front of his desk with the American flag behind him. 
The eight-minute speech was followed immediately by a 25-minute response from an Iraqi TV announcer. 

Efforts to recruit and keep minority grad students aided by new director 
By SARAH VOIGT 
News Writer 
Errol Lawrence, the newly appointed assistant director of Graduate Schools, plans to use his expertise to help recruit and retain minority students. 
The scarcity of minority students on campus is a serious problem, according to Barbara Turpin, director of Graduate Admissions. 
"Compared to the minority enrollment of other graduate schools, we don't stack up very well," she explained. "We only have one new black student this year." There are about 1,500 students in the graduate program. 
"Part of the problem is that we've had no coherent plan in the past," Turpin said. "Dr. Lawrence's experience creating recruitment plans for other colleges by assessing minority enrollment and making recommendations will make him a valuable addition to the staff." 

Before beginning at Notre Dame, Lawrence worked for a year as an access and retention specialist for Lilly, Lopez and Associates, an independent consulting firm in Princeton, New Jersey. 
"Because I've developed specific techniques in the recruitment and subsequent retention of minority students, I have some ideas about what will attract them to Notre Dame," Lawrence said. 
Lawrence said that many qualified minority students do not consider Notre Dame graduate school simply because they have never been exposed to the school. 
"Notre Dame does not stand out in the black community as it does in the white community," said Lawrence. "There are very few black alumni out there." 
As an initial phase of his minority recruitment plan, Lawrence will introduce Notre Dame's graduate programs to the minority populations at other universities. "We [the members of the Graduate Admissions Staffi will meet with the director of Minority Affairs, and black and white faculty members at other schools who counsel students about graduate schools. " 
Lawrence emphasized that once minorities submit their applications, they must meet the same admissions requirements as non-minorities. Lawrence's responsibilities, however, by no means end with the minority student's acceptance into the 
see DEAN I page 4 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), located in Indianapolis. Its purpose is to stop animal abuse in the area. 
One of PETA's main targets is factory farming, in which animals are raised strictly for profit. One example of factory farming is the raising of chickens. According to Lia Klinkhamer, CHEETA member and coordinator of Saint Mary's Language Learning Center, nine or more chickens are shoved into small coops where they spend their entire lives. 
These coops are stacked on top of each other so that droppings fall on the coops below, said Klinkhamer. When the farmers decide to kill the chickens, the animals' legs must be cut off, because their feet have grown into the wire 
see PROTEST I page 4 

A "thundering rage" is building against the United States in the Arab world, and a showdown in the Gulf would end "in a catastrophe" for U.S. forces, said announcer Mikdad Morad, who usually reads statements from President Saddam Hussein. 
A group of a few hundred men later began marching in Baghdad. As they passed through residential neighborhoods, thousands of men, women and children joined them. 
Raising their clenched fists in the air, the demonstrators denounced Bush and also President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, whom they called "traitors of the Arab world" for backing the U.S.-led forces in the Persian Gulf. 
The U.N. resolution Sunday, along with actions by the Italian and Soviet governments, appeared to confirm a growing solidarity in opposition to Saddam, whose forces overran Kuwait Aug. 2. 
The resolution followed Friday's raids by Iraqi troops on the diplomatic compounds in Kuwait. 
Two Tunisian newspapers reported Sunday that Iraqi troops had entered the Tunisian Embassy in Kuwait as well. In Bangladesh, the Bengali-language newspaper lttefaq said soldiers stormed the residences of two embassy officials Friday. 
France retaliated for the raid on its property by expelling 26 Iraqi military and civilian trainees and three Iraqi students suspected of being secret agents. They left the country Sunday night under police escort on an Air France flight to Amman, Jordan. 


Powell speaks 
AP Photo 

Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, speaks to newsmen in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia after visiting American troops who are deployed in the country. 

Monday, September 17, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Frosh football fans show true NO spirit 
Aftor a. lot of com­plaining about who should get tickets and where students should sit at Notre Dame games, the first home game arrived. One group of fans 

stood out from the Corinne Pavlis rest. It wasn't Notre 
Dame or Saint Mary's Saint Mary's Editor students per se, but rather the freshman classes of both schools. As a senior. I finally had the chance to sit in the coveted senior section. I have never been to a ND game I didn't like. I guess I figured it could only get better now that my friends and I were in sections 28 and 29. I was wrong. The senior section was not all I had dreamed it would be. Granted there were three times as many people as there should have been due to every girlfriend, boyfriend, brother, sister, friend from home, and alum who talked a student into getting them into the student section; but that wasn't the real problem. What bugged me most was the re­allY bad attitude disnlayed by the students and fans. During the National Anthem fans were swearing at one another about being in the wrong seats. I could not believe how pushy and rude everyone was. Friends and room­mates turned on one another. I could not help but look over at the freshmen section. Even though they were basically in the end zone they were really having a good time. I think the freshmen had much more spirit and a much better attitude about the game. An impressive percentage of them were wearing green shirts. I felt like I was root­ing for the wrong school wearing green in our section. I even caught them making at­tempts at starting a "wave." When I was a freshman I remember we would shout "we are" to the other side -of the stadium to which they would respond "NO". The sound was deafening. We made the cheerleaders' job easy for them. Also, we were nice to each other. We didn't care how smashed together we were. We just were glad to be together watching Tim Brown run back another kick off into the end zone. We shook our keys on third down and other "key" plays. We started waves that would travel around the stadium. After every touchdown we would high five and embrace our neighbors, not swear at them. I know I probably sound like a parent telling one of those "I remember when I wn." n. kt<l-~ype :norle,, bu~ I o::;a.n·~ help u. I paid three years worth of dues to sit where I did on Saturday and I don't want my ef­forts to have been in vain. Things got so bad for this Irish fan that I chose to head home and catch the fourth quarter on T.V. I didn't have 59,074 fans around me to share the excitement with, but I did have a cold keg and a couple of good friends. On September 29, I hope everyone takes heed of the example the freshmen set for us on Saturday . They were true Irish ns. 
-Ihe~Observer 
P.O. Box 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Business
Scoreboard Chrissy Ciletti Chris Cooney Today's Staff: 
Christine Walsh Colleen Gannon
Production News Lisa Eaton Peter Loftus Ad Design
Siobhan McCarthy 

Lisa GunsorekViewpoint Kelly McHugh Kathy Welsh Accent Tony Paganelli Shanda Wilson Joy Harris Systems Stephanie Snyder Jean Phillip
Amalia Meier Sports CirculationKen Tysiac Bill O'RoukrkeChris Cooney Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn 
nghts are reserved_ 
,--------------------­
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 17. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

® © ~~i ~ m ~ 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Pr8SS GraphicsNet 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
WORLD 
Thousands of demon­
25 children, seven adults drowned in strators marched to the Moscow Honduras Sunday when a flash-flood dragged their Kremlin Sunday demanding that school bus as it was crossing a rain-swollen river and President Mikhail Gorbachev and his overturned it, authorities said. The victims included 52­prime minister resign to take year old American missionary Dorothy Sauder Hood The responsibility for the country's accident occurred on a country road between the villages deepening economic crisis. "The of El Naranjal and Cantarranas, about 80 miles southeast Economy is a Disaster," read banners of Tegucigalpa. 33 children were on their way back to El carried by the 50,000 member Naranjal from a party at Cantarranas, a few miles away. crowdGorbachev has been Peralta said the bus was crossing the usually shallow Rio criticized for not implementing market reforms sooner. Grande when a flood wave crested over the bus and Soviets face shortages of food and many other products; tumbled it downstream. store shelves are bare. 
NATIONAL 
Cumberland Farms Inc. officials fired more A toddler trapped for 14 hours in a shaft dug for than 30,000 convenience store employees after they were a remodeling project busied himself making mud balls questioned by company security for alleged theft, before rescuers reached him at dawn. The ordeal started according to a published report. Fourteen former about 4 p.m. Saturday when the toddler fell into a hole 18 Cumberland Farms employees have filed a lawsuit, saying ~nches wide and 12 feet deep dug for a remodeling project the company has a policy of falsely accusing cashiers of m a house the family was renovating in an upscale stealing and then threatening and coercing them into neighborhood in southeastern Denver. "It was really signing confessions. The company, based in Canton, difficult. I could hear him crying, but I couldn't touch him 
and I couldn't help him," Lisa Davis, the mother of 20­Mass., denies the allegations. The civil lawsuit filed in U.S. month-old Kevin, said while fighting back tears at a news District Court in Camden, N.J., accuses Cumberland conference at Denver General Hospital on Sunday. Kevin Farms of extortion, fraud, racketeering, malicious was treated for dehydration at the hospital and released prosecution and wire and mail fraud. Sunday afternoon. 
OF INTEREST 
Amnesty International organizational meeting The ND/SMC gymnastics club will be holding tonight at 7 p.m. in the C.S.C. practices at 4:15 p.m., Monday through Friday at Angela Athletic Facility, Saint Mary's. Pre-Law Society general meeting tonight for freshmen, sophomores and juniors at 7 p.m. in Cushing . Auditorium. 
ALMANAC eln 1787: The Constitution of 
INDIANA 
Indiana State Excise Police raided 
the United States was completed and 
a beer party near Ball State University in Muncie 
signed by a majority of delegates at­
tending the constitutional convention related charges. It was the second straight night 
early Sunday, netting 4 7 people on alcohol­
in Philadelphia. 

Operation SUDS (Stop Underage Drinking and 
eln 1862: Union forces hurled
Sales) targeted Ball State and the Muncie area, 
back a Confederate invasion ofNYSE Index 
excise police spokesman John Copeland said. 
Maryland in the Civil War Battle of174.15 ~ 1.01 
Antietam.

S&P Composite 
316.83 ~ 1.82
The Sierra Club.a national environmental 
eln 1939: The Soviet Union in­Dow Jones Industrials 
group, held a forum Saturday at the Genesis 
vaded Poland, more than two weeks2,564.11 ..0. 18.56
Convention Center in Gary, Indiana. 30 people 
after Nazi Germany launched its pre­
from northwest Indiana and southeast Chicago 
emptive assault.

Precious Metals
met to discuss the health hazards of air pollution from steel mill coke plants."One of the main 
eTen years ago: Former Nicaraguan president Anastasio Gold it $2.20 to$ 385.10/oz. 
problems is the public feels there is no real 
Sliver+ 2.3¢ to$ 4.750 oz. 
Somoza was assassinated in
concern on the union's part for environmental 
Paraguay. Iraqi President Saddam
protection," said Maurice Richards, president of 
Hussein declared "null and void" a
United Steelworkers of America According to a 
border agreement with Iran, five days
steel union official, the risk is 140 cancer deaths 
before fullscale war erupted between per 10,000. the two countries. 

Monday, September 17, 1990 The Observer page 3 

Epitaph 
AP Photo A handwritten sign Friday above a slain Zulu warns that Zulus and police will die if they venture into Phola Park shanty town outside Johannesburg. Story page 5. 

Have a nice day! 
NOTRE DAME 11FIGHTIN1 IRISH" vs USC 11TROJANS11 
THANKSGIVING FOOTBALL WEEKEND NOVEMBER 21-25, 1990 
$U!I. Quad Occupancy 

Come to Student Activities 
315 LaFortune Student .centeJ or call 239-7308 
Committee aims to improve male/female relationships 
By ALICIA REALE 
News Writer 
Improvement of undergradu­ate male-female relationships is one of the main goals of The Year of Women, according to Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and Chair of the Year of Women Committee. 
Kolman gave a 20-minute talk Friday, explaining what the Year of Women means to the Notre Dame community and outlining the committee's goals for the upcoming year. 
The 1990-91 theme was de­cided upon by University President Father Edward Malloy. This focus is on the changing roles of women in so­ciety today. The primary audi­ence is the entire Notre Dame student body -not solely the female members. 
The committee has several goals which it hopes the Year of Women will accomplish at ND. The first is to improve re­lationships between under­graduate males and females. 
Kolman explained that an undergraduate woman will need to make future choices in order to balance marriage, a career and a family. A male does not have to worry about a family infringing upon his life, according to Kolman. 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKET LOTTERY 
WHEN:  MON, SEPT 17 AND TUES, SEPT 18  
6 pm -8 pm  
WHERE:  STEPAN CENTER  

You must bring Student ID and you may bring only ONE other. 100 winners may buy 2 tickets on Thurs., Sept. 20 4 pm -6 pm at Stepan. Winners will be printed in the Observer on Thursday. 
Kolman said that another goal is to focus on scholarships and research of special interest to women. The Gender Studies concentration at ND also offers an excellent opportunity for both men and women to further their understanding of the sexes. 
The committee's final goal is to "heighten awareness of what it is like to be a woman at ND , " Kolman said. After 130 years of strong male tradition the 37 percent female population is still experiencing inequalities. 
There should be more aware­ness between the sexes, said Kolman. 
Women with achievements will be spotlighted this year. Geraldine Ferraro, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate in the 1984 election, will kick off the Student Government sponsored lecture series on Wednesday at the Fieldhouse Mall. There are also future hopes for a female commencement speaker. 
According to Kolman, this is exemplified in many aspects of life at ND: 
•In 
the classroom, only 12 percent of the faculty is com­prised of women. 

•In 
many departments there are no women at all. 

•In 
one line of the Irish fight song, "while her loyal sons are marching onward to victory," a male bias exists. 

•At 
every Sunday mass, Catholics recite the "Our Father." 


Many educational events have been planned for the month of September, including the Emma Goldman Exhibit in the Hesburgh Library Concourse. Also, a magazine celebrating women's talents is being ar­ranged by the Rector and a Resident Assistant in Pas­querilla West. 



Recyclin' Irish expand 
By MARK CAWLEY 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame campus 
produces close to 50,000 
pounds of aluminum cans 
and about 250,000 pounds 
of newspaper per year. 
Because of this, Recyclin' 
Irish, a student-run orga­
nization devoted to recycling, 
is taking an active role in 
giving the University's trash 
a second chance. 
Recylin' Irish recently 
decided to expand its 
program to include the 
community surrounding 
Notre Dame. At a press 
conference last weekend, 
senior Paul Ruesch an­
nounced the opening of the 
University's first Recycling 
Drop-Off Center, which is 

located behind the Alumni­
Senior Club. 
The Alumni Association 

provided space and publicity 
for the center. "Since it is a 
student sponsored activity, 
we would like to be in­
volved," said Charles Lennon, 
executive director of the 
Alumni Association. 
"The success of this new 

program is due in a large 
part to the Alumni 
Association," Ruesch said. 
The center is designed for use by the entire community. "Just because it is a student­run activity and because it is on the Notre Dame campus does not preclude the local community." Lennon said. 
The large recycling "boat" in the rear parking lot of the club was provided by Superior Waste Systems. This company also collects the waste material and transports it to its recycling facility in Chicago. "We began this program with Notre Dame primarily due to the severe shortage of 
landfill space," said Linda Spear, a representative of Superior Waste Systems. 
"The company hopes that this recycling program with Notre Dame will start a precedent in the surrounding community," she added. 
Last fall the Environmental Action Club helped initiate the campus-wide recycling program. A new organization, Recyclin' Irish, was created at that time expressly to support and expand the program. 
A highly organized residence hall recycling system has been established under the leadership of Ruesch. Each dormitory has a representative who works closely with glass, news­paper, and aluminum "commissioners" to coordi­nate recycling within that hall. These individuals and a team of volunteers collect the waste and take it to a central location. 
Ruesch has been pleased with Recylin' Irish's progress. "We've had phenomenal participation," he said. 
Ruesch, a self-proclaimed environmentalist, has future plans for Recyclin' Irish. He hopes to provide receptacles in University offices for recycling office waste paper. He would also like to coordi­nate a program with Food Services to recycle old Ob­server's left in the dining halls. "I am devoted to establishing a comprehensive recycling program," he said. 
page 4 
Gas tanker explodes in Michigan; 18 injured 

College. The 1989 fall semester Special to The Observer enrollment was 44 7 students. This enrollment includes 235 
Enrollment at Holy Cross new students and 202 College for the upcoming fall returning students from semester is 437 students, as previous semesters. announced by Brother Raphael The college coeducational ra­Wilson, president of the tio is 62 percent male and 38 percent female. 
The area is listed as home for 71 percent of the students, with 29 percent coming from outside the local area. 
The student population con­tains representation from 23 states and five foreign coun­tries. 
BAY CITY, Mich. (AP) -A tanker carrying about 1 million gallons of gasoline exploded and burned Sunday on the Saginaw River, injuring most of the 18 people aboard and spilling fuel in the water. 
The fire was too hot for fire­fighters to douse, and officials waited for it to burn itself out, said Coast Guard Lt. Tom Koontz. 
One person from the ship was missing, said Coast Guard Petty Officer Gerald Backus. Gov. James Blanchard visited the site and declared the blaze an emergency, supplying state aid and assistance. 
The fire was reported at 
8:45 a.m., while the tanker was unloading at the Total Refinery Dock Facility, and was still burning Sunday evening. 
Authorities warned spectators to clear the area in case of multiple explosions. 
"A few people blew right off the boat and slammed ashore," said Bay City police Officer Kenneth Adcock. "The sky is covered with black smoke. If it blows again, it's going to be a big one." 
Witnesses said the black smoke blocked out the sun throughout the afternoon. 
The tanker, owned by Cleveland Tankers Inc. of Cleveland, was carrying about 20,000 barrels of gasoline or about 1 million gallons, said Koontz. It has a capacity of about 54,000 barrels. 
"That's the estimate. That's a lot of gas," Koontz said. 
The state Department of Natural Resources was conducting water and air pollution tests Sunday to check for environmental contamination, spokeswoman Susan Henry said. 
A gasoline spill is less damaging than an oil spill 
Dean 
continued from page 1 
Graduate School. 
Lawrence explained the vital retention phase of his plan. 
"Since this campus is so predominantly white," said Lawrence, "we need to sensitize minority students before they can make the transition into this new environment. It is especially difficult for those stu­dents who, say, come from pre­dominantly black schools or communities." 
The ND administration has cited the transformation of the Graduate School into a nationally acclaimed research institution as a high priority. Lawrence believes that it is essential to foster a mul­ticultural learning environment if Notre Dame hopes to achieve this goal. 
"Since society is 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
bottoms of the coops. 
CHEETA is working to eliminate such abuse. There are laws against cruel treatment of animals in coun­tries such as Germany and France, but CHEETA wants laws against animal abuse in the United States. 
In Indiana, where farming is prominent, many people don't want to discuss the subject and simply ignore it, according to Klinkhamer. 
"We know we are up for a hard fight, but we keep on 

because "it's volatile and it evaporates," she said, adding that two booms were strung downstream from the ship to contain any spilled fuel. 
Ronald Stopyak had returned home 15 minutes before the blast from working at the Bay Chemicals Co. directly across the river from the tanker. He said he raced back to work after hearing the explosion. 
"I thought the plant exploded and when I got out there I saw black smoke everywhere," he said. "I saw the employees on the ship go overboard. 
"It was really hot. I could feel the heat from across the river." 
His wife, Cheryl, said that their house was less than two blocks from the explosion and was shaken. 
"It was like a slow rumbling, it got louder and louder like thunder," she said. 
1\vo Coast Guard helicopters sprayed fire-fighting foam while they rescued crew members from the tanker, said Lt. Dennis Secor. 
Coast Guard crews secured the tanker with cables to prevent it from drifting into a nearby bridge, he said. 
Bay Medical Center spokesman Curt Miller said three of the 17 crew members treated there were admitted. 
multicultural, it is important for Graduate students to interact with students of different backgrounds, races and cul­tures," Lawrence said. "If the students are not exposed to other cultures, they are not being challenged to break down stereotypes created by television," Lawrence said. 
From 1984 to 1989 Lawrence worked as assistant dean of Rider College. At Rider he directed I a State funded Educational Opportunity Program, where he gained experience in the access and retention of disadvantaged stu­dents. 
Turpin expressed confidence in Lawrence's ability to implement his recruitment plans. 
"We have great hopes for him," she said. "He is the type of individual who is easy for students to talk to. I think that he'll do a great job marketing the University." 
trying," said Klink hamer. "Orice people are aware, then they can change their habits and views." 
On the Saint Mary's campus, CHEETA is sponsored by the Women for the Environment Club. Through this group, CHEETA will educate the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community on future animal issues and protests. 
CHEETA invites all interested students to come to meetings on the first Thursday of every month in the Francis Branch of the South Bend Library. Meeting times will be available through the South Bend Library. 
Join The Observer, it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

1HEMosrExciTING CAREER0PPOR1UNITIES ARECLOSER1HAN\bu'llnNK 
Bef~ you make that imponant first as the industry lead'!!' means stability career dec~ton, take a l?<>k at the btg ptcture. and growth potefltial. 
Were the WO!'lds largest ene~ So, ifyoure seeking a promising company and the thrrd largest chemtcal future with a Fortune 50 company look company in the United Slates. :::!: no further. ' 
. Oursize gives you , . -Check your placement office for diverse optJons, and our status ~-more details. ElJ{ON 
ThE f'oNER SUCCEED. 
An £qwM ~nityEmplo)'er 
EXXON IS SEEKING TO INTERVIEW BS, MS, AND PhD CHEMICAL, MECHANICAL, CIVIL, AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
INTERVIEW DATES: SIGN UP DATES: 

OCT =R 16, 17, 18 SEP • L..av18ER 17 AND 18 and OCTOBER 1 AND 2 
---------~-----------------------~--~----­

SOWETO, South Africa (AP) -The king of the Zulus urged thousands of armed supporters Sunday to curb the factional fighting that has caused almost 800 deaths in black townships around Johannesburg. 
"Everybody must lay down their arms and take their brother's hand in friendship," Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini told fellow tribesmen in Soweto and Tokoza, two townships that have been hard hit by the fighting which began in early August. 
Zwelithini shared the stage at the peace rallies with President Tutor Ndamase of the Transkei, the tribal homeland of the Xhosas. The Xhosas have joined fellow African National Congress supporters in clashes against Zulus loyal to the conservative Inkatha movement. 
Both sides blame the other for the fighting. 
But on Friday, ANC leader Nelson Mandela said South African President F.W. de Klerk now believes some of the violence may be instigated by a "hidden hand," an appar­ent reference to right-wing whites and others opposed to de Klerk's efforts to attain power-sharing between blacks and whites. 
"I have come to this place to put out the flames of violence," said Zwelithini at the two rallies attended by more than 30,000 Zulus, many wearing wearing red headbands and brandishing axes and spears. 

OUTDOORSADVENTURE! 
NEVER TRIED CAMPING? 
ONE-NIGHT CAMPING TRIP SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
POTATO CREEK STATE PARK 
REGISTRATION AND TRIP PREPARATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30-9:00PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM 
ROPE BRIDGES SHEL TEA BUILDING "OWL PROWLS" 
SPONSORED BY NVA 

STARGAZING page 5 
ND engineering to hold Industry Fair 
By JOHANNA KELLY News Writer 
In an effort to promote inter­
action between students and 
industry, Notre Dame's Joint 
Engineering Council (JEC) is 
holding its annual Industry Fair 
this Wednesday. 
Thirty-eight companies plan on attending this year, which is the most ever throughout the fair's ten-year history, accord­ing to Katherine Pirrota, presi­dent of JEC. Some major par­ticipants are Andersen Consulting, Proctor & Gamble, Merck, IBM, Boeing, and Dow Chemical. 
The career fair will be held from 11-4 in the Fitzpatrick Engineering Building. This will offer engineering majors an opportunity to speak with com­pany representatives and dis­tribute their resumes, said Pirrota. 
" I would strongly encourge sophomores and juniors to at­tend," said Pirrota. "You can make some strong contacts." 
The president of Notre Dame's Society of Women Engineers, Colleen Templan, added, "We really have a di­verse group. There's virtually something for everyone." 
An hors d'oeuvre hour will be held at the South Bend Marriot 
from 5:30 to 6:30. This will give 
students a chance to talk in­
formally with company repre­
sentatives, said Pirrota. This 
event is sponsored by the 
General Electric Aerospace di­
vision. 
A banquet will follow, where 
Meredith Ross, Senior Controls 
Engineer with Bechtel 
Corportation will speak. Ross's 
talk, entitled "What Do You 
Want to be When You Grow 
Up?" will deal with choosing 
career paths. 
Ross, who recently returned 
from a two year assignment in 
London, is a life-time member 
of the Society of Women 
Engineers. She received the 
Outstanding New Engineer 
award from the Society in 1988. 
"The reason we asked Meredith is because it's the Year of the Woman," said Templan. "We were very inter­ested in getting a woman pro­fessional engineer to speak." 
Both Templan and Pirrota mentioned that transportation will be provided for all Notre Dame students interested in at­tending the banquet. Buses will leave the main circle starting at 5 p.m. on Wednesday. 
The event will be sponsored jointly by the Society of Women Engineers and the Joint Engineering Council. 
New faculty members announced by Provost 
Special to The Observer 
New faculty members at the University of Notre Dame have been announced by Timothy O'Meara, provost. 
In the College of Arts and Letters, new faculty include: Peter Ayre, arts and letters London program; Elliot Bartky, program of liberal studies; Kevin Bauman, romance lan­guages and literatures; Cindy Bergeman, psychology; Kimberly Blaeser, American studies; 
Guy Bordo, music; Laszlo Bruszt, sociology; Linda Buyer, psychology; Theodore Cachey, romance languages and litera­tures; Father E. Gerard Carroll, romance languages and literatures and Angers program; John Cavadini, theol­ogy; 
Father James Connelly, arts and letters core course; Michael DePaul, philosophy; Father John Donahue, theol­ogy; Celia Duffy, arts and letters London program; Joyce Dunfee, psychology; Richard Elman, English; Rosa Filardi, romance languages and literatures; 
Peter Flemming, government and international studies; Elizabeth Forbis, classical and Oriental languages and litera­tures; Benedict Giamo, American studies; Terry Hall, arts and letters core course; Leonard Hickman, psychology; Paula Higgins, music; 
Candace Howes, economics; John Kennedy, philosophy; John Kennedy Jr., assistant professional specialist and computer coordinator; Theresa Koernke, theology; Roberta Kozuch, art, art history and design; Irene Pass Leahy, freshman writing program; 
Giovanna Lenzi-Sandusky, ro-
See FACULTY/Page 7 

Student Government Presents... APubrK F0111m On Contemporary Issues 
With 
Geraldine Ferraro 
w~ September 19, 1990 12:00noon Fieldhouse MaD 
(in case of inclement weather the lecture will held in Washington Hall) 
•
STUDENT 
1111111111 
This lfftuTP was rnnde po.mble through thR gmnvsily ofsrorml mRmlxrs of thR Am & Utters Coumil arul thR Business (~ Council. 
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 17, 1990 
BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS &DECISION SUPPORT GRADUATES 

The next wave in innovative infonnation systems is being formed today at Kraft General Foods,the largest U.S.-based international food company in America. we are what you eat -our list of famous products includes Birds Eye, Breyers, Budget Gourmet, Cheez Whiz, Claussen pickles, Cool Whip,Entenmann's, JELL-0, Maxwell House, Sealtest and Tornbstone pizza. Currently,our worldwide sales exceed $23 billion. 
We're out to change the way we do business -to use information to a con1petitive advantage. Our Information Systen1s Group is reshaping and reengineering the way we operate and cornpete. This environment isn't for everyone. We're determined to hire only the best -creative thinkers who can look at the big picture, not just the srnall screen. 
We have current opportunities in our state-of­the-art IBM enviromnent for: 
ORDER MANAGEMENT 
LOGISTICS 
DECISION SUPPORT 
CASE TOOLS 
DATABASE ADMINISTRATION 
SYSTEMS SOFTWARE 
HUMAN RESOURCE INFORMATION 
SYSTEMSIPA YROLL 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
I 
~ 
::J 
g 
0 
a: 
a... >-"
CD 
w 
.....J 
~ 
~ 
~ 
a: 
(.) 
~ 
@ 
We reward top talent with top salaries and benefits, but rnore importantly, we offer the opportunity to take your potential for success from the "con1puter roorn" to the "board room" and into the generalrnanagement arena. If leading the business through inforrnation systerns for a Fortune so leader sounds like your kind of chal­lenge, we're your opportunity. To learn more about these opportunities, we invite you to come by and visit with inforn1ation systems profession­als at our "Kraft General Foods' lnforn1ation Systems Night". An equal opportunity/affirmative action ernployer. 
''INFORMATION SYSTEMS NIGHT'' 
Monday, September 24 7pm-9pm The University Club 
Call 1-Boo-KGFOODS for more details. 
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS 
INNOVATING BEYOND THE EDGE. LEAVING TRADITION BEHIND. 

Monday, September 17, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Faculty 
continued from page 5 
mance languages and litera­tures; Sarah Blake Leyerle, theology; Father Terence Linton, freshman writing pro­gram; Fabian Lochner, German and Russian languages and lit­eratures; and Joseph Lubben, music. 
Also, Timothy McCarthy, phi­losophy; Philip Mirowski, eco­nomics; Thomas Molyneaux, art, art history and design; Linda Monroe, psychology; Stephen Moriarty, arts and let­ters core course; Cornelius O'Boyle, program of liberal studies; Glenn Olsen, program of liberal studies; 
Father Mark Poorman, the­ology; Jean Porter, theology; Kathy Psomiades, English; Kali Hath, economics, Raymond Reno, psychology; Georgine Resick, music; Joaquin Rodriguez-Suro, romance lan­guages and literatures; Jaime Ros, economics; Ann Ruvolo, psychology; Wendy Settle, psy­chology; 
Leopold Stubenberg, philoso­phy; Father Patrick Sullivan, sociology; Vicki Toumayan, romance languages and litera­tures; Francisco Weffort, so­ciology; Andrzej Weselinski, English; Todd Whitmore, the­ology; Catherine Wilson, phi­losophy; Jong-il You, eco­nomics; and Wilber Zelinsky, American studies. 
In the College of Business Administration: Neil Beckwith, marketing; Ramzi Kamal Bualuan, management; Jayanta Chandra, management; J. Michael Crant, management; Thomas Frecka, accountancy; Cathy Niden, finance and busi­ness economics; 
James O'Rourke, manage­ment; Dennis Patterson, man­agement; James Peterson, fi­nance and business economics; Marjorie Pizarek, accountancy; Glenn R. Rousey, MSA program; and Eugene Szwajkowski, management. 
In the College of Engineering: Marijan Babic, civil engineer­ing; Philip Bess, architecture; Biswajit Das, electrical engi­neering; Dennis Doordan, ar­chitecture; Eric Doud, architec­ture; James Earley, civil engi­neering; Daniel Hussey, archi­tecture; Jeffrey Janicik, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Ahsan Kareem, civil engineering; 
Michael Lemmon, electrical engineering; Patrick Pouler, ar­chitecture; Kenneth Richmond, architecture; Kazimierz Sobczyk, civil engineering; Garry Stevens, architecture; Robert Stevenson, electrical engineering; Richard Strebinger, chemical engineer­ing; Duncan Stroik, architec­ture; Joannes Westerink, civil engineering; and Richard Younce, electrical engineering. 
In the College of Science: Mark Alber, mathematics!; Douglas Anderson, mathemat­ics; Veronica Blasquez, chem­istry and biochemistry; John Bumpus, chemistry and bio­chemisty and biological sciences; Richard Carlton, bio­logical sciences, Yu Chen, mathematics; Bernhard Herwig, mathematics; 
Bei Hu, mathematics; Narahari Joshi, physics; Srinivas Kambhampati, biolog­ical sciences; Robert Kennedy, physics; Valery Khoze, physics; Hong Luo, physics; Robert Mayanovic, physics; Michael 

Miriam Stoll 
B.A. History, Dartmouth College 
M.B.A. Stanford Graduate Schaal of Business 
"I became aMacintosh convert in business school. "At our computer lab I'd always find lines ofpeople waiting to use the Macintosh computers,while othercom­puters justsatthere.SoI hadachoice: waitforaMacintosh or come back at 6AM. to grab one before they'd all be taken: '1\fter busines~ school, Itook ajob at alarge bank and used my Macintosh for producingeverything from spreadsheets to acompany newsletter. "Today I use Macintosh to help me run my mm management consulting firm.~'hen Igive apres­entation, Ican see in people's faces that they're really impressed. And that makes me feel great. "Sometimes I take Friday off, put 
my .Macintosh and skis in the car, and head for the mountains. Iski davs and work nights. It's perfect. · 
"You kno\\; Ican't sav where I'll be in fire, ten. or fiftee~ years. but I can say that my Macintosh \\ill be 
there \\ith me:· 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00-5:00 
\Xhy do people love Macintosh'? Ask them. 

'1990ApoleComoutef.1nc Apoie,111eApple1ogo, and Macmtosh are trademarks of Appk! Computer, Inc 
Mossing, biological sciences; Clive Neal, earth sciences; Kathleen Peterson, chemistry and biochemistry; 
Jack Pladziewicz, chemistry and biochemistry; Joachim Rosenthal, mathematics; John Smith, biological sciences; Stephen Smith, mathematics; Isao Suzuki, chemistry and bio­chemistry; Carol Tanner, physics; and Yelu Xu, chemistry and biochemistry. 
In the Law School; Matthew Barrett, Eileen Mary Doran, Barbara Gasperetti, Igor Grazin, Peter Karlowicz, Victoria Palacios, and Father John Pearson. 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies has added Philip Berryman, Laszlo Bruszt. Jose Durand, Michael Fleet, Sonia Fleury Teixeira, Alan Maybury-Lewis, Patricia McNeal, Pedro Monreal, Jaime Ros, Cynthia Sarti, Lourdes Sola, Francisco Weffort, and Kurt Weyland. 
Reserve Officer Training Corps additions include: Lt. Cmdr. John Hill, naval science; Captain Joseph Holt, naval science; Lt. Cmdr. David Kriegel, naval science; and Captain Richard Miles, military science. 

Among other newly appointed faculty are: Bartley Burk, University libraries; Sister Kathleen Cannon, provost's office; John Chateauneuf, radiation labo­ratory; Kenneth DeBoer, Freshman Year of Studies; Edward English, Medieval Institute; 
Father Thomas Gedeon, Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry; Michael Hamilton, the Graduate School; Thomas Kelly, physical education; Errol Lawrence, the Graduate School; Louise Litzinger, Freshman Year of Studies; Michele Martin, Freshman Year of Studies; 
Diana Matthias, Snite Museum of Art; W. Timothy McNeill, Freshman Year of Studies; John Millar, physical education; Nathan Mitchell, Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry; Patti Ogden, Law Library; Lucjan Orlowski, provost's office; Simon Pimblott, radiation laboratory; 
Thomas Rybe, Notre Dame Extension Program at St. Thomas Aquines Catholic Center, Purdue University, Thomas Sullivan, Medieval Institute; Elaine Tracy, Freshman Year of Studies. 
Universitr of Wisconsin Platteville 
A 
v 
Bmphase! in Liberal Arts Intemaliooal B111iness 
Co\II'IIEII available in Spanish ard in Bnglish 
FluencyinSpanish rot requind 
AD co~JJHS approved by UW-Piatteville and validated on an official UW·Piatteville transcript 
$3625 per ~e~~~esler for Wilcouln 6: MIMaot.l'f:liclmb. $3875 pereemester for aon-nsidenll. 
COlla include Tuition and Fees Room and Board in Spanish homes FleldtriJlll 
AD financial aids apply 
For further infmnationcontact Stacly Abroad Propma DWamerHaU Uninnity of Wl~tonaln·PI•tteviUe 1Unil'el8ity Plaa Platttrillt, Wl53818-3099 (6081342·17l6 
page 8 Monday, September 17, 1990
The Observer 
Business 
Capitalism creeps closer to ailing Soviet economy 
Radical force's and depressed economy 'force' Gorbachev into liberal decisions 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Russian Deputy Prime Minister months of switching to a mar­Now, however, the changes Ryzhkov went on national Mikhail Gorbachev, driven by Grigory Yavlinsky told his Par-ket economy, the Soviet Union must come quickly, Gorbachev television Saturday night to ar­the radicals who control the liament on Saturday. is likely to feel the full pain of admitted. gue for his moderate approach Parliament of the largest Soviet That is an exaggeration. these thorns. "The old structures are to reform and to insist on re­republic, seems to have ac-Gorbachev rejected some key Gorbachev this week was de­falling apart and the new ones taining, through 1991, the rigid cepted their prescription for points and a parliamentary fensive, thumping his fist in are not yet formed," he said. Soviet bureaucracy that now the gasping Soviet economy: battle remains to be fought. Parliament as he told Soviet "There is no system in the true runs the economy. capitalism. But the comment was a good legislators such radical change sense of the word." In arguing against the Rus­
The economy's fall into de-indication that the Russian would have been impossible His own economic reform sian republic's plan, Ryzhkov pression was a major impetus. radicals feel they have already earlier. plan says the country already predicted it would lead to a 30 But the final push came from won. has entered an economic de­percent drop in the country's Russian President Boris Yeltsin, In the five years since he "A year and a half ago, we pression, with rising foreign standard of living. who won approval for the dras-came to power proclaiming the were just talking about plural­debt and declining ability to But Ryzhkov's plan, which tic reforms in the Russian Par-need for reform, Gorbachev has ism," he said, referring to the pay. The country's interna­calls for dramatic price in­liament this week and forced tinkered with the Communist Soviet Union's dramatic switch tional economic position, the creases on Jan. 1 without fun­Gorbachev's hand. system, trying to fill the barren to multicandidate elections. plan said, is "catastrophic." damental structural changes, is 
Yeltsin threatened to pursue shelves of Soviet stores. If he had heeded calls to As a result, Gorbachev's eco­so unpopular that legislators his economic revolution in Rus-Now, he has thrown his sup­change from a centrally nomic plan says the gradual have called for his resignation. sia -which contains half the port behind an economic re­planned to a market economy transition to a market economy And about 50,000 Muscovites Soviet people and three-quar-form plan full of ideas that then, Gorbachev said, "Do you proposed by Soviet Prime Min­demonstrated near Red Square ters of the country's land mass warm the hearts of capitalists think anything would have ister Nikolai Ryzhkov would be in a cold rain Sunday evening, -with or without Gorbachev's and horrify die-hard Commu-come of it? That's nonsense." too slow. calling for Ryzhkov to step support. nists: private land, home own-"We needed all that time to Without urgent action, "we down. 
Gorbachev went along. ership, merit pay and profits. think about things. Otherwise, would be forced to choose be­Still remaining, however, is 
The economic plan he dis-It also contains the thorns of there would have been such a tween hyperinflation and direct the battle over sections of the tributed to the national Parlia-capitalism: unemployment, fac­tragedy, such confusion in the seizure of cash from the popu­Russian plan that would strip ment on Friday "95 percent co-tory closings, bankruptcies and country, that we never could lation and enterprises," the the central government of much incides" with the Russian plan, rising prices. In the first have escaped it," he said. plan-says. of its power. 
Ivy Tech aids attempt to increase skilled workers 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. (AP) -"More and more the state is Indiana Vocational Technical looking to Ivy Tech as the num­College will assume a new role ber one vehicle to assist" it in in the state's efforts to create developing programs to in­more jobs and develop a more crease the number of skilled highly skilled work force. workers, he said. "Ivy Tech is 
Sam Borden, Ivy Tech's re­not doing a bad job, but the job gional vice president in Terre is getting bigger and tougher." Haute, has been named to a Borden said Gov. Evan Bayh new, state-level position and and Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon will work closely with the state want to strengthen technical Department of Commerce, the education in Indiana. 
·~governor, lieutenant governor They also want economic-de­

Student lauded in PACRIM Forum 
Special to The Observer somewhat unusual." said cuss trade relations, govern­Fen Jiang, a doctoral student Potenziani, "in that it involves ment and corporate policies in economics from Taiwan, was students of business and fi­and prospects for the future. 
selected by his peers attending nance with very high-rankingthe PACRIM Forum in San Issues related to interna­Francisco last week to address and powerful_business leaders, tional trade, regional trading 
the conference. heads of state and political fig­blocs and prospects for sus­
More than 800 students from ures from throughout the Pa­taining long-term growth and 24 nations joined 500 invited cific." investment opportunities were guests and delegates to the Potenziani cited Bob Hawke, foremost among the agenda PACRIM Forum, a biennial con­prime minister of Australia; items. 
ference on investment and Carmen Lawrence, premier of business opportunities Western Australia; Gov. George "We were delighted," said throughout Asia and the Pa­Deukmejian of California; and Potenziani, "to have a Notre cific. Gov. Vladimir Kuznetsov of Dame student selected by such 
Jiang's 20-minute presenta­Eastern Siberia as typical of an honor, and we were very tion to the forum was entitled the sorts of officials involved in proud of the job he did. His "The Borderless Generation". the forum. speech presented the views of 
tomorrow's Pacific Rim leaders 
Frank Potenziani, an Albu­Among the business leaders to the leaders of today and ad­querque, New Mexico busi­present were Kenichi Ohmae, dressed the issues and concerns nessman and investor, attended chair of McKinsey & Company; of students from throughout 
this year's forum as a repre­Marshall Loeb, managing editor the Pacific." sentative of the Notre Dame of Forbes magazine; Phillip Business Advisory Council. Ruthven, executive chair of the Jiang, who will receive his 
Chris Chung, a Notre Dame un­Ibis Group, Australia, and doctorate in economics at the dergraduate finance major, others. conclusion of this semester, also participated in the forum, teaches "Business Conditions 
representing the Notre Dame The students, political fig­Analysis" for the department of 
ures, corporate leaders and in­
Council on International Busi­finance and business economics ness Development. vestors gathered in San Fran­in the College of Business Ad­
cisco, Sept. 9-12, 1990, to dis­
"The PACRIM Forum is ministration. 
and the General Assembly. 
''I'm extremely enthusiastic," he said Friday. "It's something new -a way to create and have an impact on the entire state system.... It's something the local board believes strongly in, and a natural fit for my personal interests." 
On Tuesday, Ivy Tech Presi­dent Gerald Lamkin told re­gional trustees that the need for a skilled work force is be­coming a crisis in Indiana. 
velopment packages to move away from direct financial in­centives toward programs that supply a well-trained, skilled workforce. 
Under Borden's leadership, the Terre Haute region has be­come a leader in economic de­velopment initiatives with its industrial training program and its new plastics technology center, a joint effort with in­dustries and economic develop­ment groups. 
Irate customers shred credit cards in protest 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -would boycott Dayton's and Hundreds of customers of a other corporations for sup­department store chain are porting Planned Parenthood. tearing up their credit cards Dayton Hudson and threatening a Christmas spokeswoman Ann Barkelew season boycott in a revolt said the decision had over the retailer's uncharac­nothing to do with pressure teristic snub of Planned Par­from special interest groups, enthood. but arose from confusion 
"I don't think they ex­about the donations, which pected any big outcry," said some misconstrued as Toni Tschann of the Min­support for abortion. nesota Women's Political 
Caucus. "And frankly, I Now the public response never thought I'd hear from has prompted trustees of the this many. But people aren't Dayton Hudson Foundation 
standing for it." to reconsider their decision Shredded credit cards be­
and enter talks with Planned 
gan arriving by mail at Parenthood that are set to Dayton Hudson Corp.'s continue this week. downtown headquarters after the company's charita­Barkelew said several hun­ble foundation confirmed on dred customers have re­
Labor Day weekend that it turned their credit cards. On was halting $20,000 educa­Saturday, about 500 people tion grants to Planned Par­rallied outside a Dayton's 
enthood of Minnesota, end­store in suburban Edina and ing a 22-year association. repeated their vow to boy­The decision to end the cott all Dayton Hudson 
grant came about the time stores beginning the day the Christian Action Council after Thanksgiving unless of Falls Church, Va., said it funding is restored. 
Viewpoint
Monday, September 17, 1990 page 9 

----.1..--==-Y~ -­
---Ih~.e-O.bse.-~~er-----­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, 
is encouraged. 

Dear Editor: 
Recent remarks in The Observer note the difficulties encountered in securing tickets for the Notre Dame football matches-in particular home games. Alumni, including mem­bers of the Monogram Club, are similarly frustrated. 
Sursum corda! The B/R Savings and Groan Society at the JACC provides relief. For a mere $419 per person, anyone on our planet can obtain a home game ticket. Via the B/R­Robustelli Marketing enter­prise, anyone can buy a "Ticket to the Game" and two nights at an Elkhart hotel, bus trips be­tween Elkhart and du Lac, an "Open Bar" Legends reception, a "Buffet Dinner with Beer, Wine" etc., the "Big Game Pep Rally" AND a "Legends Tailgate Party prior to the Game" at 
DOONESBURY 
caoNu~ 
\ 

Krause Field-beer and wine are included at an otherwise dry du Lac. Think of that, citi­zens of du Lac! A mere $419 frees you of alumni lotteries and waiting lines at the ticket office. (Air fare to South Bend is extra.) 
Given that the real cost of this novel B/R Savings and Groan Society package is an estimated $250, you can declare the near $200 difference as a tax deductible contribution to the CSC (Center of Sports Concerns). The IRS will allow this since, de facto, the University is now a wholly owned subsidiary of its Athletic Department. 
James J. Carberry Professor September 11. 1990 

SuR€ SAPVAl"t +fvSS£1N'.S US£ OF AM£RICAN 1--\o~TAG.£5 A5 HuM AN SH/£LDS IS ]£SP1CABLL BUT W-ifAf Rl6ittT 1)Df.5 1'R£StDENT ""f>US-H-+1-AV£ ro 6Ft'I ANYT-11 IN 67? W#~i Does -H£ CAl-L DAN GVA'IL£? 

LETTERS 
'1 
~.,.CS.:S) 
Development endangers tradition 
Dear Editor: 

What can a prestigious university, rich in tradition, do with 500 acres of woodlands? 
The plans have been made by the Notre Dame administration to destroy and develop such an area. The plans for this "unknown wilderness" possibly consist in the building of a new football stadium replacing our famous one, thus ruining nature and ending part of the Notre Dame tradition. Student unity is needed against this misuse of funds which will destroy beautiful land and the caring, spirited tradition we attend this school for. 
At a slide show at the Center for Social Concerns, I learned that the destruction of five acres has already been completed. This land contained free deer, birds, raccoons and many plush green trees and wildflowers, as do the over 500 acres remammg. These beautiful elements of nature cannot remain "unknown" and must not be destroyed as I have seen far too often. 
I am from New Jersey where our motto, "The Garden State" is a distant memory. A new football stadium (or any development of the woods) would destroy Notre Dame's tradition just as chemical companies and shopping malls have torn down New Jersey's motto. The tradition of our stadium as we know it (sitting with "Touchdown Jesus" shadowing the field, etc.) would be forgotten. And our university's image as a place of social concern and Christian justice would be raped along with the thousands of trees. 
We cannot want this to happen, and it does not need to be done. If we, the students, unite behind the life of the wilderness, the land and a great part of Notre Dame's tradition will be saved. 
Chris Martin 
Keenan Hall 
September 14, 1990 

Relations committee makes headway 
Dear Editor: 

At the end of the '89 fall semester, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College Relations Committee was established.This joint university committee was formed to "create an atmo­sphere in which a positive and open feeling exists between members of the two campuses." 
The committee plans to "serve as the driving force be­hind improvements in Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations." To date, the committee consists of concerned students and fac­ulty from both campuses. 
On August 27, the committee sponsored its first event, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Freshmen Women's picnic. The picnic was held at Saint Mary's Haggar College Center. The purpose of this was for the women to meet each other be­fore stereotypical attitudes could be set. Being its first year, the picnic was a success. It was encouraging to see not only the number of women who participated, but also the inter­action that took place. 
Now it is time to explore fur­ther possibilities. The avenue is paved for improving relations. 
It is now up to you, the student body, to make the effort. As founders of the committee, we hope to see increased involve­ment. As we pass the leadership to Susan Zielinski and Pete Jakus, we encourage you to join them in their quest to lessen the tensions, to move on to bettering relations, and to strengthen the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community as a whole. 
Ted Stumph Maggie Belin ND/SMC Relations Committee September 14, 1990 
Have you cleaned up your act? 
Now that Notre Dame has been without maid service for a few weeks, how does your dorm look? How do you feel about the new cleaning procedures? Did the administration handle the change well? How does the cleanliness of your room (or lack thereof) compare with that of the "community areas" in the dorm? Write Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and let us know what you think. Deadline for submissions is Tuesday, Sept. 18. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
\ ""' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Woke up this morning in my clothes again ....' 
Sting 
W/3U., IF IT 

THAT'5 ANOTH8R THING I 
HI, GUYS! BOY,
NO. 

/3()R£f)()M I r~ MiJa A .i , . 
RCM£3/YI/38R. Ff<LJM 7H8 NAM­
ISN'T THe aJM­
HAVe 
fJORefX)M /.OT a=Nl3t!J ·'
PANY FI.1JR/5T! 

YOU~ /.OTS OF SnT/Nt3 Ma.JNIJ! YOJ 
AN[)tONe-Fl<lt:NP-3
YOU BliCN AS­

aJ4VT 7D KNOWtJ.i7AT7H8 RE4L­
1/ /3NWY Jf3 H£31?£ ~... 
UN£593! H&!<&!
S!GNefJ YeT, 

~e~ag~e~10~--------------------------------------------T~h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r------------------------------------------------~M~onday,Se~emt 

Adrian Jarrell became an instant Irish hero with this touchdown catch which put Notre Dan
Notre Dame defensive tackle George Williams pressures Woverine quarterback Elvis Grbac. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The Observer!Kevin W91se 
Reggie Brooks (41) tackles Wolverine tailback Jon Vaughn. Rodney Culver (5) rushed for a career-high 95 yards on 19 carries. Irish tailback Tony Brooks (40) dives across the 
ber 17, 1990 

The Observer/Scott McCann 
The Observer/Kevin Weise Irish quad-captain Ricky Watters, who rushed 7 times for 41 yards, ne ahead for good. breaks into the open field. 


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Irish linebacker Michael Stonebreaker killed a Wolverine drive with this clutch one-handed interception in the end zone. 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Quarterback Rick Mirer picked up 52 of his 165 passing yards on the final drive which culminated in an 18-yard TD pass to Adrian Jarrell. 



Accent 
page 12 Monday, September 17, 1990 
Hispanic heritage month recognized at ND with 
native music and cuisine 
MANUEL A. ESPINO  was excommunicated by the  
accent writer  Bishop of Michoacan, thus al­ 
lowing the Jesuit priest to mo­ 
South Bend mayor Joe  bilize further southward. Also,  
Kernam proclaimed September 16-0ctober 15 Hispanic  this gave the revolutionaries more time to organize, as more  
Heritage Month. In addition,  and more leaders emerged. Key  
Notre Dame's Hispanic student organizations will be sponsor­ among them was Jose Marfa Morelos, who led the movement  
ing several events to promote the rich culture of  from the south. On July 11, 1911, Father  
Hispanoamerica.  Hidalgo was killed, as his movement to Zacatecas proved  
Also during this month, Mexico's Independence Day will be observed on September 16  unsuccessful and fatal. Though the "Father of the Mexican Independence Movement" died,  
(Dieciseis de septiembre).  his memory and martyrdom  
Various celebrations, festivals,  served as inspiration to the rest  
masses, dance, music, and food  of the revolutionaries.  
characterize the celebration.  Having fought a long, drawn­ 
Dieciseis de septiembre is tan­tamount to the United State's  out war, which lasted a little less than ten years, the  
Fourth of July celebration. On September 16, 1810,  Mexicans emerged victorious in securing their independence  
Father Miguel Hidalgo, a Jesuit priest of the Mexican town of  from the imperialistic Spanish rule.  
Dolores, called and adminis­ 
tered a midnight mass, urging his parishioners to unite them­selves in a "cause" against the Spanish rule that had so domi­nated Mexico for about 300  Mexico's independence be­came official through the Billy Bragg's E P 'the Internationals' Treaty of Cordoba, signed on August 24, 1821. On September 27, 1821 Agustin de Iturbirde promotes strong socialist themes  
years. This mass has come to be known more famously as the "Grito de Dolores," which  became emperor, and Mexico was finally free from Spanish rule.  Fran Moyer accent writer  songs, which is a major diver­sion for this Brit, who is as  
translated to English literally means the "Scream of Pains." Hidalgo's followers grew from 600 to close to 100,000, most of whom were involved in the mining, agricultural, and manufacturing industries. Shortly thereafter, Hidalgo  The celebration begins this Friday at Theodore's. Hispanic \music will be played from 9:00 p.m.-1:30 a.m. Food such as salsa, merengue, lambada, onda (Tex-Mex), will also be served. All are welcome to at­tend.  Workers of the world unite! The vanguard of socialism, Billy Bragg, has released a seven song EP, The Internationale. For those of you who worship the ground that  much a song writer as a per­former. Instead of writing his own songs, Bragg relies on traditional folk songs that ex­plore various economic and political topics. The EP is excellent, except for the first song, "The  
Ronald Reagan walks upon, this album is not for you. In  Internationale." This song, originally adopted by the  
fact, you will probably be  French Workers Party and  
sickened by the "Pinko  later embraced by the Soviet  
Commie" message this de­ Union as its national anthem  
mented Englishman spews.  until 1943, is very much like  
Billy Bragg has never been a  the boring and stuffy "Pomp  
man who is afraid to espouse his political views, as is obvi­ and Circumstance." By including this song,  
ous by listening to songs on  Bragg let his desire to be  
his five previous albums, such as "There is Power in a  known as a socialist go too far, as he trades enjoyable music  
Union," "It Says Here," "Help Save the Youth of America,"  for purely ideological lyrics.After a struggle through  
and "Waiting for the Great Leap Forward."  this first cut, however, the rest of the EP is very enjoyable.  
The overt left-wing political  In addition, Bragg's songs  
message of Bragg is no less  are not devoid of humor, as is  
prevalent in The  obvious in the upbeat "The  
Internationale than in his  Marching Song of the Covert  
other albums, but it takes on a  Battalions," which pokes fun  

 different form.  at the U.S. military, who Bragg  

 In The Internationale, Bragg only wrote two of the seven  believes are "here to defend wealth" and make "the world  
safe for capitalism."  

The most captivating song 
Wilson Phillips creates harmonic trio with its debut album 
MAUREEN GALLAGHER melodies which are pleasing to and "The Dream is Still Alive" accent writer the ear, and words which are get lost in the repetition of beat simple, but very appropriate. and melody. This repetition Wilson Phillips has released "Hold On," which was popular tends to get monotonous and their self-titled debut album earlier this year, and makes these songs seem more 

which for the most part is fresh "Impulsive" are two songs trite than they actually are. and innovative. The group con­which seem to exemplify this 1\vo surprisingly strong 
sists of sisters Carnie and basic form, which borders on songs, which show a depth not Wendy Wilson and Chynna soft pop. However, they still evident in many of the other Phillips. manage to be catchy and fitting songs, are "Next To You 
in the emotions they evoke. (Someday I'll Be)" and "Eyes 
It is no coincidence that these The group features three very Uke 1\vins." In these two songs, names may sound familiar, for distinct voices. Unfortunately, but especially in "Eyes Uke these ladies spring from fami­they do not always highlight 1\vins," they seem to explore 
lies with strong musical back­them. Wilson Phillips does not different qualities of their grounds. Carnie and Wendy hide behind heavy synthesized voices and experiment with Wilson are the daughters of one guitar. In fact, the background harmony and different beats. 
of the Beach Boys, Brian music is soft. However, it some­These songs are refreshingly Wilson, and Chynna Phillips times seems like they try to different from the other songs. parents were members of the hide behind each other's voices, For a debut album Wilson Mommas and the Poppas. and no one really gets an Phillips has put forth a very 
This history, as well as the opportunity to shine. strong effort. In this album they fact that the girls have grown skillfully harmonize, and up together, may explain how After a few songs it becomes perhaps in their next album effortlessly their voices seem to difficult to distinguish where they can learn to combine this meld, producing a pure, clean one song ends and another be­strength with a little experi­
sound. gins. Promising songs like mentation and a little more The songs have soft, soothing "Release Me," "Over and Over" depth. 

on the EP is the stirring song" The Red Flag," originally written in 1889 by an Irishman and now used by the British Labour Party. This traditional tune contains inspirational lyrics and is set to the old Jacobite air of "The White Cockade," which compels one to tap one's foot to the moving music. 
The final song on The Internationale, "My Youngest son Came Home Today," has to be ranked as one of Bragg's best. Written by Eric Bogle, author of great anti-war bal­lads such as"The Band Played Waltzing Matilda" and"The Green Fields of France," this selection is dark and morbid. 
The whining recorder creates an eerie atmosphere under which Bragg's voice moans "The fife and drum beat out the time/While in his box of polished pine/Like dead meat on a butcher's tray/My young son came home today." 
The lnternationale is a great album. It out does Bragg's previous album, Worker's Playtime, and is a positive indication that Bragg is back to the excellence of his earlier records. 

Monday, September 17, 1990 The Observer 
page 13 

----------------------------------~~~~~-----------------------------------------­
Alvarez shows restraint after Badgers' first win 
MADISON. Wis. (AP) -It the Badgers' next opponent, anything, just for the fact that play in Wisconsin's season­quarter touchdown from 1 yard marked his first victory as Alvarez said after Wisconsin they can believe in the things opening loss to California at out. Wisconsin's head football evened its record at 1-1 that we are talking about and week earlier. "For some reason, I was a lot coach, but Barry Alvarez in-Saturday before a Camp so they can enjoy it," Alvarez more relaxed this week," said sisted he wouldn't reflect long Randall Stadium crowd of said. Williams, criticized for a lack on the Badgers' 24-7 thumping 44,698 fans. of second effort against Williams, who rushed for 114 of Ball State. Enjoy it they did, particularly California, raced 23 yards for a yards on 10 carries. "In the 
"I know we have a long way tailback Robert Williams and touchdown the first time he got past I was playing to impress to go to improve and I'm a!-"We needed a win badly and wide receiver Lionell Crawford, his hands on the baH, and fol-the coaches," he said. "Today I .re_a_d..;y_t_h_in_k_i_n,;;;g_a_b_o_u_t_T_e_m..;p_I_e.;..,'_'_t.;.;h.;..e;....;,k.;.;i,;;;d.;..s.;n.;..e;..e_d_e_d_it_m_o_re_t_h_a_n__w_h_o_m_a_d_e_a_m_e_n_d_s_r_o;..r_t_h_e_ir__I_o_w_e_d_w_i_th__a_n_o_th_e_r_s_e_c.;..o.;.;n.;;d_ just wanted to do my job." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mal)''s office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN NEED TICKETS FOR PURDUE, Dame-Miami game. Call Mark at 1· WANTED: 2 tickets to the Notre 
ESCORT ON CAMPUS... STANFORD OR AF. (312) 752· 800-325·5275 or leave message.
WANTED: 2 MIAMI TICKETS. EVERY NIGHT 8PM·2AM 
'-TY-PIN-GN_AV-~-~B-'~-EE_S_...JI l.....__FO_R_S_A_L_E_~ 
TOP DOLLAR. 404·923-4707. CALL 283-BLUE 5314. 
...........NtE6.................. . 

4 MIAMI GA's are what I need . 
287-4082 
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: dave glenn does dishes 
So give them to me, please. Pete
Miami Tix

19" COLOR TV, TWO Need two GA's and one student for x1745Phone: x1755
SEMESTERS $110, ONE Penn St. WHO WANTS TO GO SEE BILLY 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO Ask for Tim x4110 BRAGG ON 9/20 IN CHICAGO?
LOST/FOUND 
$NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S$ Need 2 Air Force GA's call 
SEMESTERS $110, ONE CALL DAVE 2789.
$$$$$$ NO OBJECT$ Brian C. at x3546 or x3540
LOST BLUE NOTRE DAME SEMESTER $80. !!!!!!!!######!!!!!!!!!######## 
CALL DAN 3281 
FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272· SOLVE MY PROBLEMS FOR ME! HEY ART!!! HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 
AT MISHIANA REGIONAL 5959. I NEED 6 STANFORD AND 6 I THINK I LIKE THIS CLASS THE
Need GA's and stud tix for NOMIAMI TIX. STUDS OR GA'S.$$$
AIRPORT ·-CONTAINED PENN STATE GA's BEST. HOW MANY CREDITS DO I
vrs·Stanford PLEASE call LisaCALL NICOLE 234-8882
CHAMPIONSHIP RING,MONEY, CALL TIM #2704 AND LEAVE GET FOR NAP· TIME? 
PLANE TIX CHI to LAX And Tp at5012 
AND IMPORTANT PAPERS. A MESSAGE -BUTTERCUP
Lv Oct20 Ret0ct28 ONLY $200 
PLEASE CALL TONY AT 
obo Call Nicole x2853 I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET. 
WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S

X1970. NEED ALL TICKETS X1167
CALL BILLY · x1817.
DON'T BE A .. CALL MIKE HELP! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S!

BIKE & COUCH.272-6306 
AT2344 CALL ERIN AT 283·3425 
SMC FRESHMEN Lost: Woman's traditional TRADE 2 STAN OR AF GA'S FOR Election Information Meeting white gold NO class ring with Tonight 7·8pm in 304 Haggar 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S 2 PRDU GA'S •TIM.1407 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S

blue stone. $100 Reward. Please !!!!!!!!PLEASE HELP ME!!!!!!!! In order to run, you must
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL 
call Katie Basinski at X4559. Friend from Oregon coming to attend one!!! 
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273· FRANKSTAR AT 289·4860 see MIAMI game. Willing to pay
1364 This is an easy one. I need
BIG BUCKS!

NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S HEY YO. WE'RE TALKING TO
PURDUE TICKETS! Call Carrie atContact Tara at x 1124 
CALL KARIN x1992 YOU!!! WE KNOW YOU WANT TO FOUND: KEYS IN FLANNER. SET 
ENGINEERING CALCULATORS! X4049. 
GO HOME A DAY EARLY AND CONTAINS 3 KEYS. CALL RICH I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
1 yr. old HP·28S,$150, or HP· 
41CX,$125, with original box. Both MICHIGAN studs and GAs FOR SALE: SEE YOUR HTH (OR MOMMY 
239-5370 & IDENTIFY KEYCHAIN. Parents will take back tuition AND DADDY) AT FALL BREAK.
include all manuals. Vel)' powerfull needed. Will pay $$. Please call Student tickets for Stanford, 
Darrell at 283·3302. if I don't come through!!!!!!!! SO SELL US YOUR FREAKIN'
machines!! Call289-8020. STUD. Purdue and Air Force. 
FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN Call Mike X3506 MIAMI TICKETS!!! WE'LL PAY BIG
TIX ALSO!! WILL HAGGLE. Call Amy at x4624 to make an
OBSERVER OFFICE. KEY RING BUCKS!!! CALL MIKE OR CHRISoffer.
HAS A MITSUBISHI KEY ON IT WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
ATX 1779. PLUS SEVERAL OTHERS. COME WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 
•Go lrish..Go lrish..Go Irish• UP TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE COLL:1·312·745·7210.
IBM compatible 286 portable NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S 
computer, 1.2 floppy, 40 meg HD, WILL TRADE 2 STAN FORDIF THEY'RE YOURS. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE MAN1 meg RAM. Lotus 2.1 & Q & A ORPSUGA'S included. 287-0534. 

I need: Desperately need 1 student WHO ATE AT ED'S WITH ME AND 3 Air Force Tickets!! ticket for Air Force game!!!! WHO RAN AROUND RUSH IN
DAVEX3024

WANTED 
THE RAIN WITH ME THIS Call Tim at x3332 SUMMER.
Please call ALICIA at x3465!!! 

NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX X3566
TICKETS 
HELPII NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S! 
GREAT DEAL! 

•Go lrish..Go lrish..Go Irish• CALL ERIN AT X3425.
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK $$ Need 1 Miami stud tic $$ 
6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs • 

READING BOOKS AT HOME. Need $$$?Sell $$$$ #2894 $$$$
other offers welcome 

CALL 61 5-473·7440 EXT. B-340. your ga's to all 
x2630 
$5 HAIRCUTS!!!!

home games. PLEASE. I really, really need REGULAR & ROTC
WANTED·TIX Call tom x1597. Hey-We need 3 Miami GA's 
Need 2 Miami GAs 
PURDUE GA'S. I got lots of

MIA· N.D. GAME Call Diana 234-4974 or
Big$$

MONEY. Call Sean x1723 VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
CALL 800·323-7687 I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME David x1244
Angie x2110 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 

GAMES.272-6306 HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay SOUTH BEND
Want to hire art student HAVE 2 AF Ga (50 yd 14 row!)
$$$$$$$$!Call Matt X1055 

to paint leprechaun on rec PLEASE HELP ME !!!!! Trade for 2 MIAMI Ga + $$ (or
I NEED TIX!!! 2 GA'S FOR 233-4767

room wall 273-9158 Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s just $$) Call Steve at 1603.
PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. 

Mom will kill to see Miami!
TONY X1590

THIS IS A CATHOLIC NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &
DON'T FULLFILL MY WILDEST Please sell me your tickets!!!! Pleease HELP ME! 
UNIVERSITY· STANFORD CALL 273·1364 DREAMS DESPERATEL Y NEED 2 PURDUE HAVE MERCY!!!
DON'T SELL ME YOUR MIAMI Call Cathy at 273-9624. Got Miami and other stud tix 
GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES.

NEED 2 miami GAs! 284-4386 WANNA GO TO THE TONIGHT TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's SHOW AND SEE JOHNNY
TICKER X 1167 KEVEN 1588
CALL KEVIN X1589 CARSON, ED. & DOC? CALL 239·
BABYSITTER NEEDED!! Parents coming for NO-Air Force 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME

Call Beth at 288·0597 or NEED GA'S & STUD. TIX TO ALL 7308.
During home FB games Game. Need to buy general 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Art at 277·9203 HOME GAMES -ESP. PURDUE

Call Steve at X1037. admission tickets. Call Mary Lou
CALL 273-1364 

$$$$$$$$ CALL BETH 233·9226 ITS DISNEYLAND'S 35th 
or Ray 234-3873. Would like to ANNIVERSARY! VISIT MICKEY,buy them now!!! 
NEED MIAMI TICKETS???? 

I NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR MINNIE & THE GANG. CALL 239·
NEED MONEY ?? You can save a marriage, sell me STANFORD, PENN, & MIAMI 7308.
Downtown Book Co. Needs i need 2·4 miami tix 
ME TOO

your two Miami GA's! Dave X1566. CALL BABS X3945
Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. and 1 purdue tix HOW COULD YOU MISS THE
Many Opportunities. Call Mr. call pat x3800 
4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami 

I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OFTurner 5·7 pm M·F 288-1002 
fans that need humblino. game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! MIAMI X1581·TOM 272·8954 Amy 
I need 2 GA's for EVERY home NEED 1 OR 2 STUD TIX TO YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs USC · 
Students, need extra spending NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL 239· 7308
PLEASE call 284·5249 $$~$$
money???? MACRI'S DELl IS CALLALEX X1068 NOW HIRING FULL AND PART 
WANTED: Penn State Stud Tix call ANNE at x1704 BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP 
SMC rRESHMEN

TIME COOKS AND EVENING need 1 stud. tick. to Miami! 
NEED 1 MICH. Tix AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR Info. Mtg. For Elections 
BUSSERS. Good employee have other tick. & $,call for benefits, flexible schedules. and a deal.234·5840 John 
AARON x2384 x2352 I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs and SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE 7-8pm 304 Haggar great place to work. Apply within: stud tix for any game. Todd x1747 FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1· COME ON AND GET INVOLVED!! 
NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. 800-875-4525.
Located in University Center on BUYING MIAMI STUDENT Anyone who is interested in
CALLX4045 Need 2 GAs for Penn State
Grape Road. TICKETS · Need 4 
Call 284·4060 NEED ALL THE STANFORD TIX I serving as a Chairman or Vice
Call Frank at 233-7357 Chairman of the INVESTMENT 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. CAN GET. GA's. CALLUNIQUE POSITION-GRAPHIC 
Will pay top dollar. Call Mark DESPERATELY need PURDUE DENNIS X2384 CLUB must arrange an interview
ARTIST AND RECEPTIONIST New York Attorney needs Stanford by calling 283-1722 by Monday
x1576. GAs!!! Paul x1626
MUST HAVE MAC COMPUTER GAs. Will pay big $$$ 
I need 1 Stanford G.A or Student Spm. NO exceptions!!! 
KNOWLEDGE. QUARK, Call Paul at 201·334·3804 or 
Need 1 student Penn State ticket I Need 2 Miami Tickets ticket! CALL Mike-273-9471
MICROSOFT, PLUS OTHER. Nancy at 277-2942. 
for a future Domer. Please call Pat Students or GAs PART TIME, HOURS FLEXIBLE. 
at 273-9367. Will Pay Top Dollar WE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OF BACKGAMMON PARTNER Call Eric x2095 STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3 NEEDED 233·3059 JERRY 
I DESPERATELY NEED
CALL 273·2090. 9-5. CLOSE TO HELP! This means YOU. I need USC TIX! Call ALYSSA or NANCY 2 AIR FORCE GA'S
NOTRE DAME two GA's for Miami game. Will pay NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET I!! x3822 Kim C--Congrats on the
CALL BRIAN AT X1426 
engagement! --The 91 ChEgs hotel reservations for any game. I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or CALL JOE X2053 (Who will be third?)
FOR RENT 
Amy 1289. NEW YORK ATTORNEY NEEDS CALL KEVIN NIGHTS ONLY HAVE STANDFORD STUD TKTS JUST DO IT..
MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR 271·9312 NEED PURDUE AND A. F.
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
BIG DOLLARS! GA. WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL SAM WILL BUY TRADE OR SELL
219-291· 7153. NEED STUDENT TIX AT (201)334-3804. WANTED: CALL CAROLYN X1363 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB AN ATTRACTIVE STUDIO IN 
ALL HOME GAMES 

CALL 1597 NEED 6 GA'S. CALL MIKE ASAP 2 PURDUE GA'S 
MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME AT CASTLE POINT. 273-9417 PLEASE help me convince my
255 PLUS DEPOSIT 2888595 DESPERATELY SEEKING STEPH@4322 MON. 7pm STEPAN CENTER
father that all the tuition 
STANFORD GAME TIX I NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT he has shelled out over the past for for use by my nubile young sister TICKET!!!! PLEASE CALL KATE I NEED MANY STANFORD TIX, years has been worth 
WHY RENT? HOMES FOR $1.00. yes. you too, Eileen O'Connor! 
who's coming to town. AT X4045. STUD. OR GA. CALL STACY 271· ~!! I need REPOS. GOV'T GIVE AWAY 
Call Alison at 4011 1893. 
3 STANFORD G.A'S!
PROGRAMS! FOR Need GAs for PENN STATE and INFORMATION 504-649-0670 Miami Ticket AIR FORCE. NEEDED: STANFORD STUDENT Christine X4012 
EXT. R-6840. Available Gall Jackie 4121 TIX JOE#1352 PURDUE PURDUE PURDUE x1412 I need 5 stud tickets!!! 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Need 2 Miami TIX Wanted: Purdue, Air Force. and CALL JULIE x4859 FOR TURTLE CREEK APTS Need Miami GA's Will Pay Top$ NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE CALL Miami student tix. NON-SMOKER $$$$$$$ no object Call Brett x 1416 X4285. Call John x1630. 
273-9406 OR 283·2805 NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S X4514 
Call Mark 232·4589 CONDO FOR RENT: Stanford Gm Love me, abuse me, and sell me NEED ALL TIX!!I #1 588 Kevin PERSONALS ·sleeps 6, Ktch, 2 Btrm, etc." I need 4 Stanford and 4 Air Force your Penn State GA's. I need 4 of sdgf 
1 BlockO.C. tix. Call Pat x 233· 7328. them. Call x1696 and leave a FOR SALE: 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL DENNIS x2097 message for Flo. CALL 708-328-1523. hi ag Valentines 
Monday, September 17, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
Lead dwindles while Sox await return of Clemens 

(AP}-While Roger Clemens Boston pulled within two Steve Searcy and Paul Gibson waits to find out if he can runs in the ninth on singles by combined on a two-hitter and pitch this week, the Boston Mike Greenwell, Mike Alan Trammell hit three run­Red Sox continued to stumble. Marshall and Tony Pena. Mter scoring singles. 
The Chicago White Sox com­Danny Heep walked to load Yankees starter Chuck Cary pleted a four-game sweep of the bases, Thigpen snared (5-10) left the game on a first-place Boston, beating the Jody Reed's line drive to end stretcher after he collided Red Sox 4-2 Sunday as Bobby the game. with first baseman Steve Thigpen got his 51st save. Meanwhile, Clemens intends Balboni chasing a foul popup. 
"This is the series I feared to throw hard on Tuesday. He Cary, who briefly was the most all month," Boston will be examined Wednesday unconscious, was taken to a manager Joe Morgan said. and if everything is all right, hospital for X-rays. "We don't play well here and he will start against the New we never get any breaks. I'll York Yankees on Friday. be glad to get the hell out of Royals 9, Indians 6 here. Have you ever seen so KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­many cheap hits in all your Bo Jackson led off the seventh life?" Athletics 5, Twins 4 inning with a go-ahead home 
Boston, which leads Toronto OAKLAND, Calif. (AP} -run off Efrain Valdez (0-1) as by 1 1/2 games in the Walt Weiss drove in the Kansas City ended the American League East, has winning run with a two-out Indians' four-game winning lost six of its last seven games. single in the 11th inning as streak. The Blue Jays were scheduled Oakland reduced the magic Bill Pecota hit an inside-the­to play Baltimore on Sunday number for its third park home run and Kevin night. consecutive AL West title to Seitzer and George Brett each 
"To play as badly as we did seven. had solo homers for the and still be in first place is a Mark McGwire doubled with Royals, who won for just the plus," Dwight Evans said. "It's two outs off Juan Berenguer second time in 13 games. up to us now, and that's the (8-4} and Terry Steinbach was way it should be." intentionally walked before Mariners 5, Angels 3 
Eric King (10-4} allowed five Weiss' single. ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP} ­
hits in seven innings. Barry Pinch-hitter Ken Griffey Jr. hit Jones pitched a hitless inning Tigers 5, Yankees 2 a three-run homer o_ff Bryan and Thigpen finished the com­DETROIT (AP} -Cecil Harvey (3-4) in the ninth in­bined eight-hitter. Fielder hit his 47th home run, ning. 
Late BYU rally avoids upset 
In the second quarter, With 4:34 left, Detmer hit 
PROVO, Utah (AP) -Detmer was intercepted Stacey Corley with a 9-yard 
Another week, another twice. One stopped BYU at touchdown pass and, after 
surprise at Brigham Young. WSU's 29, and Gossen drove Gossen and Griggs hooked up 
A week after its 28-21 upset his team 7 5 yards for on a 7-yard scoring play to of defending national champ Hanson's third field goal, a forge another tie, Tuipulotu Miami, BYU went out against 23-yarder. On the ensuing put the Cougars ahead for Washington State and series, Matt Bellini bobbled a good with a 23-yard TD run. suprised almost everyone by Detmer pass, which was in­falling behind 29-7 at tercepted by strong safety BYU's final touchdown halftime. Alvin Dunn, who ran 25 yards came when Gossen was 
It took a school record 36-for a touchdown. The 2-point sacked at the WSU 13 on point fourth quarter -with conversion pass failed, fourth down and Corley Ty Detmer throwing three leaving WSU with a 29-7 scored on a 5-yard run three touchdown passes in the last lead. plays later. 15 minutes --'-for No. 5 BYU "There are not many teams to rally Saturday for a 50-36 "I told them it didn't matter in the country that can score victory. whether we won or lost at 43 points in a half," Detmer, 
"I knew during warmups halftime, but that the last 30 who completed 32-of-50 that we were in trouble," minutes would set the tone passes for 448 yards, said. Edwards said. "We were for what the rest of the "We got fired up and got hot. dropping passes. They just season would be," Edwards Our defense gave us the ball, weren't into it. All this talk said. "This was a real gut our receivers came through about an undefeated season check for us and I am proud over and over. I can't say and the Heisman (for Detmer) of our guys." enough good about our was a distraction." It was all BYU in the second defense line." 
Washington State jumped to half. By the end of the third Washington State coach a 20-7 first-quarter lead on quarter, it was 29-14 on Mike Price said he believed field goals of 44 and 21 yards Detmer's 2-yard TD pass to his team had a good chance by Jason Hanson, a 53-yard Nati Valdez. Then it got wild. to win the game. scoring run by Shaumbe Within a two-minute span "I thought we had a chance Wright-Fair and a 49-yard of the final quarter, Detmer going in at halftime like we scoring pass from Brad threw a 16-yard scoring pass did," he said. "{But) you put Gossen to Calvin Griggs. to Brent Nyber, hit a 2-point Ty Detmer and that offense Detmer had the first of his conversion pass to Chris on the field and they are five TD passes -a 4-yarder Smith, and hit Andy Boyce going to score points. HeThe Blue Jays have climbed to within 1 1/2 games in the AL East. 
to Peter Tuipulotu in the with a 32-yard touchdown stays on the field and they opening 15 minutes. pass to tie the score at 29-29. are going to score." 
SEC could try to woo Hurricanes 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP} -The significant because SEC commissioner Southeastern Conference's search for a Roy -Kramer has visited only one other 12th member turns to Miami this week campus-Florida State. now that Florida's other powerhouse But Foote said it was premature to football independent has spurned the assume the SEC would extend a bid to the league in favor of the Atlantic Coast Hurricanes, an independent in both Conference football and basketball. 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden, "I think since FSU has made its deci­born and educated in the heart of SEC sion, it will increase conversation," Foote country, said Sunday he wanted Florida said. "But we don't know what the SEC is State to keep away from SEC member­going to say to us when they come down." ship despite his lifetime admiration for Miami athletic director Sam Jankovich the league. He proved that last week as also acknowledged that Florida State's the Seminoles became the ninth decision likely would "escalate the member of the ACC. process," but said the Hurricanes' target 
"We think we've earned our own date for deciding whether to join a identity," said Bowden, a Birmingham. conference remained the "latter part of Ala. native who would like to coach 10 September to the first of October." more years at Florida State. Kramer, who has never acknowledged
I 
that the SEC is interested in Miami, re­"In regard to recruiting, we're defi­fused comment. He is expected to speak 
I nitely better off not in the same confer­with Foote on Monday to determine what ence with Florida," he said. "From a day he and other conference officials will football standpoint, we simply have visit. more flexibility." The SEC added Arkansas as an 11th 
Miami president Edward Foote said team earlier this summer and is actively AP Photo SEC officials will visit the university this seeking a 12th so it can break into two The Tigers will soon be trying to tackle Seminoles instead of Panthers. week to discuss expansion. The move is six-team divisions. 



Monday, September 17, 1990 Scoreboard 
page 15 

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Boston 80 67 .544 z-3-7 Lost4 Toronto 79 68 .537 1 z-8-2 Won3 Detroit 71 77 .480 91/2 5-5 Won2 Milwaukee 69 n 473 tO 1/2 z-5-5 Wont 
Cleveland 67 80 .456 t3 6-4 Lost t Baijimore 65 80 .448 14 z-5-5 Lost3 New York 60 86 .411 19 1/2 3-7 Lost2 West Division w L Pet GB L10 Streak 
Oakland 94 52 .644 z-8-2 Won3 Chicago 84 62 .575 10 5-5 Won4 Texas 77 69 .527 17 z-8-2 Lost 1 Calilornia 74 73 .503 20 1/2 5-5 Lost2 Seattle 72 75 .490 22tl2 4-6 Won2 Kansas City 68 78 .466 26 2-8 Wont Minnesota 66 82 .446 29 z-3-7 Lost 3 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pet GB LtO Streak Pittsburgh 84 63 .57t 3-7 Lost5 New York 83 63 .568 1/2 z-6-4 Lost 1 Montreal 78 68 .534 51/2 z-7-3 Won3 Chicago 70 76 .479 13112 6-4 Won2 
Philadelphia 67 79 .459 161/2 Z-4-6 Wont St. Louis 66 81 .449 18 z-4-6 Lost2 West Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak 
Cincinnati 82 63 .566 4-6 Wont Los Angeles 77 69 .527 51/2 z-6-4 Lost 1 San Francisco 75 71 .514 71/2 z-6-4 Lost3 San Diego 68 n 469 14 Z-6-4 Won2 Houston 67 79 .459 15 112 5-5 Won3 Atlanta 59 87 .404 231/2 3-7 Lost2 
z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Saturday's Games Toronto 4, Baijimore 3 Oakland 4, Minnesota 1 Chicago 7. Boston 4 Detroij 4, New York 3 Cleveland 14, Kansas City 6 Texas 6, Milwaukee 3 NFL STANDINGS RESULTS Seattle 7. California 2 Sunday's Games Detroit 5, New York 2 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE Football Chicago 4, Boston 2 
East Notre Dame 28, Michigan 24 (Sat.)
Kansas City 9, Cleveland 6 w L T Pet. PF PA 
Milwaukee 5, Texas 3 
Miami 2 0 0 1.000 57 31 Seattle 5, California 3 
Buffalo 1 1 0 .500 33 40 Men's Soccer Oakland 5, Minnesota 4, 11 innings 
New England 1 1 0 .500 40 41 St. Louis 3, Notre Dame 2 (Fri.) 
Toronto 6, Baijimore 5 
N.Y. Jets 1 1 0 .500 44 46 Monday's Games 
Indianapolis 0 2 0 .000 24 42 Women's Soccer Boston (Boddicker 15-8) at Baltimore (McDonald 7-4), 7:35 p.m. 
Centre I Notre Dame 12, Valparaiso 1 (Fri.) Milwaukee (Higuera 10-7) at Cleveland (Black 11-10), 7:35p.m. 
Cincinnati 2 0 0 1.000 46 36 Washington U. 2. Notre Dame 0 (Sun.) New York (Adkins 0-1) atToronto (T.Stotllemyre 13-15), 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh 1 1 0 .500 23 22 Kansas City (Farr 10-7) at Minnesota (Casian 0-0), 8:05 f)<m. Cleveland 1 1 0 .500 34 27 Women's VolleyballChicago (M.Perez 12-14) at Oakland (Sanderson 16-9), 10:05 p.m. 
Houston 0 2 0 .000 36 67 Kentucky over Notre Dame (Fri. -No scores Texas (B.Witl15-9) at Seattle (Gardiner 0-1), 10:05 p.m. West 
available)Only games scheduled 
L.A. Raiders 2 0 0 1.000 31 22 Notre Dame over Louisville 15-11, 15-t2, 1D-15,
Tuesday's Games Kansas City 1 0 0 1.000 24 21 16-14 (Sat..) Boston at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. 
Denver 0 1 0 .000 9 14 Milwaukee at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. San Diego 0 2 0 .000 30 38 Men's Cross CountyNew York at Toronto, 7:35 p.m. 
Seattle 0 2 0 .000 13 34 Notre Dame 21, Georgetown 40 Kansas City at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Chicago at Oakland, 10:05 p.m. 
East Women's Corss CountryTexas at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. 
w L T Pet. PF PA Georgetown 15, Notre Dame 50 Detroit at California, 10:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Giants 2 0 0 1.000 55 27 
Dallas 1 1 0 .500 24 42 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Phoenix 1 1 0 .500 23 54 SPORTS CALENDAR 
Saturday's Games 
Washington 1 1 0 .500 44 26 New York 4, Philadelphia 2 Philadelphia 0 2 0 .000 41 50 Los Angeles 3, Cincinnati 0 Central 
Monda~. Sept. 1'1:

San Diego 5, Atlanta 3, 11 innings 
Chicago 2 0 0 1.000 48 13 Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 3 Detroit 1 0 .500 42 52 Men's soccer vs. VALPARAISO, 7:30p.m. 
Houston 3, San Francisco 2, 10 innings Green Bay 1 0 .500 49 55 Chicago 6, St. Louis 2 Minnesota 1 0 .500 53 27 Tuesday, Sept 
18

Sunday's Games 
Tampa Bay t 0 .500 52 56 Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 1 
West No sports scheduled. 
Philadelphia 8, New York 3 
San Francisco 2 0 0 1.000 39 25 San Diego 9. Atlanta 4 1 .500 61 48
Atlanta 1 0 Wednesday, Sept. 19 
Cincinnati 9, Los Angeles 5 L.A. Rams t 1 0 .500 59 50 Chicago 8. St. Louis 4 
New O~eans 0 2 0 .000 15 45 Women's soccer vs. ST. JOSEPH'S, 5 p.m.
Houston 3, San Francisco 2 Sunday's Games Men's soccer vs. DETROIT, 7:30p.m. 
Monday's Games 
Detroit 21, Atlanta 14 San Francisco (Garrelts 12-10) at Cincinnati (Rijo 11-7). 7:35p.m. Miami 30, Buffalo 7 Thursday, Sept. 20Los Angeles (Neidlinger 4-1) at Atlanta (leibrandt 8-9), 7:40p.m. 
Chicago 31 . Green Bay 13 San Diego (Hurst 9-9) at Houston (Darwin 11-2), 8:35p.m. 
New York Jets 24, Cleveland 21 No sports scheduled. 
Only games scheduled 
New England 16, Indianapolis 14 Tuesday's Games Los Angeles Rams 35, Tampa Bay 14 Friday, Sept. 21 San Francisco at Cincinnati, 12:35 p.m. Phoenix 23, Philadelphia 21 los Angeles at Atlanta, 5:40 p.m. Minnesota 32, New O~eans 3 Women's soccer at Michigan State, 2 p.m. Montreal at New York, 7:35p.m. Cincinnati 21. San Diego 16 Men's soccer at Michigan State, 4 p.m. Pittsburgh at Chicago, 8:05 p.m. New York Giants 28, Dallas 7 Women's volleyball at Rhode Island Tournament. 
San Diego at Houston, 8:35p.m. Los Angeles Raiders 17, Seattle t3 Philadelphia at St. Louis. 8:35 p.m. San Francisco 26, Washington 13 Pittsburgh 20, Houston 9 TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Monday's Game Boston . 001 000 001-2 8 0 Kansas City at Denver, 9 p.m. Chicago 020 002 OOx-8 1 Sunday. Sept. 23 
BASEBALL Kiecker. Murphy (6), Andersen (6), Gray (8) and Pena; King, B.Jones (a). Thigpen (9) and Dallas at Washington. t p.m. 
American leagueKarkovice. W-King, 10-4. L-Kiecker, 6-9. Sv-Thigpen (51). Indianapolis at Houston, 1 p.m. 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Mike Smith,
Kansas Ciiy al Green Bay, 1 p.m. 
Mickey Weston and Daniel Boone, pitchers; Leo Cleveland 004 000 20~ 12 Miami at New York Giants, 1 p.m. 
Gomez, third baseman; Juan Bell, second base­Kansas City 312 000 30x-9 13 1 Minnesota at Chicago, 1 p.m. 
man; and Chris Holies, catcher. from Rochester of Candiotti, Walker (1), E. Valdez (3), C.Ward (7) and Alomar; Wagner. M.Davis (3), Cs.Maldonado New England at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. 
the International League.(7), Montgomery (7) and Boone. W-Montgomery, 6-3. L-E.Valdez, 0-1. HAs-Kansas City, Phoenix at New Orleans. 1 p.m. Seltzer (5), Brett (12). Pecota (5), Jackson (25). San Diego at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Atlanta at San Francisco, 4 p.m. CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Extended the contract Milwaukee 302 000 000-5 1 0 0 Philadelphia at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. of Jeff Torborg, manager, through the 1991 season. Texas 030 000 000-3 1 0 0 Pittsburgh at los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Announced thai Larry Himes. general manager, 
A. Robinson, Crim (7), Plesac (9), Machado (9) and Surhoff; Chiamparino, Jeffcoat (7). Russell Seattle at Denver, 4 p.m. will not return for th<1 199t season. 
(9) and Petralli. W-R.Robinson, 11-3. L-Chiamparino, 0-1. Sv-Machado (2). Detrort at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m. Monday, Sept. 24 Seattle 200 000 003-5 9 0 Buffalo at New York Jets, 9 p.m. National League Cal~ornia 000 010 200-3 7 CINCINNATI REDS-Called up Gino Minutelli, 
R.Johnson. Swift (7), M.Jackson (9) and Valle, Bradley (9). Langston, Harvey (9) and Parrish. pitcher, from Nashville of the American W-Swift, 6-4. L-Harvey, 3-4. Sv-M.Jackson (3). HRs-Seattle, Griffey Jr. (21). Calnornia, Rose Association.
LEAGUE LEADERS 
(1), Schu (6). 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Signed Barry New York 000 000 200-2 2 Lyons, catcher. .,
Detroit 101 030 OOx-5 9 1 Cary, M.Leiter (5), Monteleone (7). Mills (8) and Leyritz; Searcy, Gibson (8) and Heath. W­
FOOTBALL
Searcy, 2-5. L-Cary, 5-10. Sv----Gibson (3). HAs-New York, Balboni (15). Detroij, Fielder (47). Based on 400 at Bats National Football LeagueAMERICAN LEAGUE GREEN BAY PACKERS-Activated Herman Minnesota 040 000 000 ~ t 0 G AB R H Pet. 
Fontenot, running back. Placed ChUck Cecil,Oakland 000 400 000 01-5 11 RHdsnOak 123 444 109 145 .327 
safety, on injured reserve.
(11 innings) Brett KC 132 510 78 166 .325 
Tapani. R.Sm~h (5), Berenguer (8) and Harper, Ortiz (1t); C. Young, CMren (2), Honeycutt (9), Plmero Tex t38 537 66 171 .318 MtAMI DOLPHINS-Waived Tony Collins. run­Eckersley (tO) and Steinbach. W-Eckersley, 4-2. L-Berenguer, 8-4. HRs-Oaldand, Canseco Trammell Det137 525 68 165 .314 ning back, and Scott Schwedes, wide receiver. (37), Steinbach (9). Boggs Bsn 142 569 84 tn .311 Activated Jim Jensen, wtde receiver, and Troy 
DParker Milm143 554 67 169 .305 Stradford, running back. Baltimore 101 010 020-5 9 0 McGriff Tor 138 495 85 15t .305 Toronto 101 001-6 12 1 480 55 146 MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Activated Kirl<
120 CJames Cle 129 .304 
D.Johnson, Boone (5), M~chell (8), Price (8). Olson (9) and Tettleton; Wills, Acker (7), Ward (7), Harper Min 125 447 59 136 .304 Lowdermilk, center. Placed David Braxton, Henke (8) and Myers, Borders (7). Diaz (9). W-Henke, 2-2. L-Price, 3-4. HAs-Baltimore, Finley Burks Bsn 137 528 80 160 .303 linebacker, on injured reserve. (3), Segui (1). Toronto, Gruber (28). Bell (21). Home Runs 
Fielder, Detrort. 47; JCanseco. Oakland, 37; McGwire, Oakland, 37; McGriff, 
HOCKEY
NATIONAL LEAGUE Toronto. 34; Gruber, Toronto. 28; Deer, Milwaukee, 27; RHenderson, Oakland, National Hockey League Pittsburgh 010' 000 000-1 2 26; BJackson, Kansas City, 25. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERs-Released GuyMontreal 000 002 20x-5 1 Runs Batted In Rouleau. center. Returned Chris Taylor. center. toTomlin, Kipper (7), Landrum (7), Power (8) and LaValliere; Bilardello (7); S.Anderson. Ruskin Fielder. Detroit, 120; Gruber, Toronto, 106; McGwire. Oakland, 103; JCanseco, London of the Ontario Hockey League. and(6), Burke (7), Frey (8) and Fitzgerald. W-Ruskin, 3-2. L-Tomlin, 3-3. Sv-Frey (8). Oakland, 95; DParker, Milwaukee, 90; Sierra, Texas. 88; Trammell, Detro~. 88; Sylvain Fleury. left wing, to Longueuil ol the Maldonado. Cleveland, 88. 
Quebec Maior Junior Hockey League 
San Diego 072 000 000-9 1 0 Pitching (12 Decisions) Atlanta 100 002 001-6 4 Welch, Oakland, 24-6, .800; BJones, Chicago, 11-3, .788; RRobinson, Rasmussen, Hammaker (8) and Parent; Avery, Clary (4), Luecken (6), Henry (8) and Olson. W­Milwaukee, tt-3, . 788; Clemens. Boston. 20-6, . 769; Bolton, Boston, 9-3, . 750; 
SOCCER
Rasmussen, 11-13. L-Avery, 3-9. HAs-San Diego, Roberts (8). Aflanta. Justice (25), Cabrera CFinley, Calnornia, 18-6, .750; Stieb, Toronto, t8-6, .750; Wells, Toronto, 11-4, Major Soccer League
(6). .733. 
ST. LOUIS STOR~Agreed to terms with Zoltan Toth, goaijender. 
I page 16 
Victory 
continued from page 20 

went the final two yards for the score. 
Michigan pulled to within four with just over four minutes remaining in the half when Watters fumbled at the Notre Dame 34 and Grbac hit a wide­open Howard for a 44-yard touchdown pass just two plays later. 
The Wolverines took the lead on their opening drive of the second half. A pair of Grbac passes to Howard accounted for 
r 40 yards and two first downs and Vaughn picked up two more, moving the ball to the
I 
Notre Dame three. The Irish \ defense held for two plays, but I tailback Allen Jefferson sprinted I around left end on third-and­
\ 
n 
goal from the one, giving Michigan a 17-14 lead. 
l 
"I thought this might be the best Michigan team coming into the game, but they were even j\ better than I anticipated," Holtz \' said of a Wolverine rushing 
l I 
attack that gained 265 yards in the game. "I haven't seen anybody run the ball on Notre Dame like that." 
The Wolverines extended their lead to ten points just seconds later after a Tony Brooks fumble gave them the ball at the Irish 
25. Grbac hit Howard in the left flat on first down and the fleet flanker outsprinted Rod Smitq and George Poorman down the sideline and into the end zone. 
Down by 10 and failing mis­erably in its attempts to stop Vaughn, Notre Dame entrusted its number-one ranking to its previously untested sophomore quarterback. 
Faced with a 3rd-and-15 sit­uation from its own 15-yard line, Notre Dame came battling 
I.) I 
Mirer

l continued from page 20 
\' 
•\ pocket, he threw on the run
'j 
and hit Smith for 13 yards and 
) the first down. Mirer later capped the drive with an 18­yard touchdown pass to Adrian Jarrell. In THE DRIVE, he completed five of six passes for 52 yards, nearly a third of his 165 total passing yards. 
"We had a lot of motion as a unit in the drive," Mirer said. "It tells us we can come back from a deficit. It gives us confidence that we can be down to a great football team and still come back and win." 
Mirer said he didn't even feel nervous when the Irish trailed 24-21. He knew there would be 
,I at least one more chance.
i) 
"He (Coach Lou Holtz) said, 'We're right in this thing and there's no reason to feel we can't win.'" Holtz said. "He felt we didn't need to run the ball that much. We needed to throw the ball. He asked me what I felt comfortable with and those 
~~~~~~s -an~eraa~t:~!~dc~~l~ 
and some safe patterns." This is the kind of win Mirer 
can look back on with pleasure 
a few years down the road. But 
The Observer Monday, September 17, 1990 
back. Mirer launched a pass to the streaking Ismail on the right side of the field. The ball bounced out of Ismail's hands and into the outstretched arms of freshman split end Lake Dawson, who advanced it to the Michigan 40. 
"I think that certainly was a big swing in the momentum," Holtz said. 
Culver capped the 13-play, 80-yard drive with a one-yard plunge up the middle, pulling the Irish to within three at 24­21. 
Michigan drove to the Notre Dame 11 on its next possession, but Stonebreaker's interception gave the Irish what seemed to be their last chance for a comeback. However, Mirer returned the favor just five plays later when he overthrew Tony Smith over the middle and safety Vada Murray intercepted the ball, returning it to the Michigan 19. 
The Wolverines picked up one first down before they were forced to punt from their own 30-yard line. Ismail fielded Eduardo Azcona's 46-yard punt at the Notre Dame 24 and the Irish began their final drive with 4:33 remaining on the game clock. 
On third-and-six from the Notre Dame 28, Mirer threw on the run to Smith for a 13-yard gain. Watters picked up 16 on the ground, and Mirer rolled left and connected with Ismail on the left sideline for an 11­yard pickup. Mirer then rolled right, spotted Jarrell at the goal line, and hit him with the winning touchdown pass. 
"It was a heck of a football game," said Holtz. "If we played another quarter, we might have been behind at the end of the fifth quarter. It's unfortunate when you have a game like that, you have to end it after four quarters." 
Moeller might very well agree. 
for now, there are other teams and other drives. 
He cannot afford to enjoy the spotlight just yet. One DRIVE does not make a quarterback, even if it is big enough to put in capital letters. 
If this keeps up, they might have to give Mirer an entire row of lockers to accomodate the hoards of media that will follow him. 
He can only hope they will come for the right reasons. 

Ismail shined at crunch time 
By GREG GUFFEY and 
FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writers 
Rocket Ismail might not have scored the winning touchdown Saturday night in Notre Dame's 28-24 come-from-behind victory over Michigan, but he did make the big plays in the final drive. 
Ismail,who missed half of the second quarter after he suffered a bruised sternum, caught two passes and carried once in Notre Dame's winning drive, a 9-play, 76-yard effort that ended with a Rick Mirer touchdown pass to Adrian Jarrell. 
Ismail touched the ball three consecutive times in that drive -a run up the middle for four yards, a screen pass from Mirer for another four yards and an 11-yard pass from Mirer on the left sidelines. 
"We were on the sidelines and Rick Watters said to me, This is the time when All-Americans become All-Americans," said Ismail, one of the favorites to win the Heisman Trophy. "He couldn't have said it much bet­ter than that." 
He also "touched" off the biggest play in Notre Dame's third-quarter scoring drive. 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan 24 

Michigan 3 7 14 0 -24 Notre Dame 14 0 0 14 -28 ND-Mirer 2 run (Hentrich kick) Mic-FG Carlson 38 ND-T.Brooks 2 run (Hentrich kick) Mic-Howard 44 pass from Grbac (Carlson kick) Mic-Jefferson 1 run (Carlson kick) Mic-Howard 25 pass from Grbac (Calrson kick) · NO-Culver 1 run (Hentrich kick) ND-Jarrell18 pass from Mirer (Hentrich kick) 
A-59,075. 

Mic  NO  
First downs22  23  
Rushes-yards  40-253  50-234  
Passing  190  165  
Return Yards  86  9  
Comp-Att-lnt  17-30-2  14-23-1  
Punts  3-41  6-41  
Fumbles-Lost  2-1  2-2  
Penalties-Yards  4-31  5-31  
Time of Possession  29:33  30:27  

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
RUSHING-Michigan, Vaughn 22-201, Bunch 11-33, Jefferson 4-21. Notre Dame, Culver 19-95, lsmail6-41, Watters 7-41, T.Brooks 8-36. 
PASSING-Michigan, Grbac 17-30-2­

190. Notre Dame, Mirer 14-23-1-165. 
RECEIVING-Michigan, Howard 6-133, Vaughn 6-41, Alexander 2-21. Notre Dame, lsmail4-42, Jarrell2-26, Dawson 1-45. 
21 AND AM I PLEASED! 
·~ 
/

~®~~W [ID~~[fi)(Q]®W ~®OOW 
Love, 
-: ~~~~~~1M1o•mi'IDilialdi'IIRiiiolnii'iaiiinldiiil(,liiielvliniil••••• 
I. Students Preparing for the LSAT! 
A Mock LSAT will be given for Pre-Law 
' J Society members on Saturday Sept. 22, at 8 am in the Cushing Auditorium.
1f~ 
[ 
ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND. 
On third and 15 from the Irish 15, Mirer threw a pass to Ismail streaking up the right side of the field. Ismail tipped the ball and it ended up in the hands of Notre Dame split end Lake Dawson, who picked up 45 yards and a first down. The Irish scored five plays later. 
Ismail finished with four catches for 42 yards and car­ried six times for 56 yards. Michigan varied its kicking game, allowing Ismail just one return for 25 yards. 
Jon Vaughn settled any ques­tions about the Michigan tail­back position. 
Running behind one of the most powerful offensive lines in the country, Vaughn gained a career-high 201 yards. He gained 57 yards in all of 1989. 
"It's been awhile since I've seen a team run the ball like that," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
Indeed, it had been almost three years since Penn State's Blair Thomas broke the 200­yard barrier, gaining 214 yards against the Irish. 
Mirer, a lifelong Michigan fan who once told former Wolverine head coach Bo Schembechler that he would someday play for him, wore a tattered Michigan tee-shirt under his uniform Saturday night. 
Mirer told reporters that the shirt was a source of inspiration and a reminder of the game's personal importance for him. He added that he does not plan to wear an opponent's tee-shirt every week. 
Holtz compared the game to a great heavyweight fight. 
"One time, one team's on top and has momentum, and the other one bounces up. If one guy knocks the other guy down and the other guy stays down, it isn't a great fight. 
"You knock this guy down, and he gets up and knocks you down. You get up and knock him down, and it just goes back and forth." 
Notre Dame became the first team since Purdue {1962-1966) to defeat Michigan four con­secutive times....Notre Dame is now 59-9-3 when ranked first in the nation, a figure that includes 15-1 under Holtz... .Fullback Rodney Culver picked up a career-high 95 yards on 19 carries in the game. His pre­vious high was 61 yards against Purdue in 1988. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Rodney Culver led all Irish rushers with 95 yards. 
BEFORE YOU HAVE TO BURY YOURHEADIN BOOKS••. 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BWWDRY
Sff95 

• No Appointment! 
• 7 Days a Week! 
• FREE Tan.ning ­Buy4-Get4 FREE! 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT 10 VENT·JRc GRAPE RO . MI$HAV. Ak .1 
277-7946 
t-t.'·.I=IS -~., =, • ~ Satur~r:~, ·-• • -;"l!l", 'tvr'9"1t(t..caa ·~ 

_-.__ 
page 17

Monday, September 17, 1990 The Observer 
Smith, Dolphins trash Bills 
NVA Golf Scramble -The deadline for the NVA 2 Person Golf Scramble has been extended to Wednesday, Sept. 19. Entrants must sigh-up at the Golf Shop, located in the Rockne Memorial Building. 
NVA Fields at Stepan Center-Starting Sunday, Sept. 16, Non­Varsity Athletics will be running softball league play on the Stepan South Football Field. In addition. within the next few weeks, all of the field and volleyball court areas will be devoted to league play. 
Irish Insanity will not meet tonight, but will meet Wednesday, Sept. 19th in Cushing Auditorium at 7:30p.m. All are welcome. 
Officials are needed for soccer. women's flag football and grad/fac football. Sign-up in the NVA office by Wednesday, Sept. 19th. 
Women's off-campus football -there is a mandatory practice today at 5:30 at Clay Middle School on the football field. If you cannot attend, please call Jill at 288-0597 or Jen at 273-1814. 
Reds push lead to 5 1 /2 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Los Angeles Dodgers self­destructed, wasting plentiful scoring chances and misplaying Bill Doran's fly ball into a costly two-run double as the Cincinnati Reds reopened a 5 1/2-game lead in the National League West. 
The Dodgers needed a win Sunday for a three-game sweep that would have got them within 3 1/2 games of Cincinnati. Instead, the Reds reduced the magic number to 12 for clinching their first division title since 1979. 
The Dodgers had plenty of opportunities to take control early -they loaded the bases in three of the first four innings off Norm Charlton and Scott Scudder (4-5). They left them loaded all three times, stranding a total of 10 run­ners and scoring just twice. 
Center fielder Stan Javier then made a key misplay of Doran's fly ball to start a six­run fifth inning against Mike Morgan (1 0-14) that snapped a 2-2 tie. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents Catholic University's National Players performing THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 

Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
1Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 Stu./ Sen. Cit. -Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 


(AP)-The Miami Dolphins, no longer Dan Marino and a prayer, are 2-0 for the first time since 1984 by using ball control and defense ingredients missing in a four­year playoff drought -to rout the Buffalo Bills on Sunday 
It wasn't the passing of Marino, the blocking of an of­fensive line that kept the usu­ally relentless Bills off the quarterback or the running of rookie Sammie Smith that had Coach Don Shula crowing after a 30-7 victory. 
"The first three quarters were as good as you want to be around, from the standpoint of balance, not making errors and getting the ball for our offense in good field position," said Shula, who became the fourth NFL coach to win 200 games. 
Smith scored two touchdowns on short runs and gained 56 yards on 18 carries as Miami took the lead in the AFC East for the first time since December 1985. The Dolphins, who allowed 280 rushing yards in losing to the Bills last December, outgained Buffalo 128-44 this time. 
"For us to turn it around like we did today makes me feel real good," Shula said. 
49ers 26, Redskins 13 

Joe Montana, who became San Francisco's all-time leader in career passing yardage, threw for touchdowns to John Taylor and Jerry Rice. 
Montana completed 29 of 44 passes for 390 yards, eclipsing John Brodie's record of 31,548 with a 37 -yard completion to Taylor in the third quarter. The play gave Montana 
31.551 career yards. He finished with 31,654. 
Taylor had eight catches for 160 yards and Rice six for 74. Mike Cofer kicked four field goals for the 49ers (2-0). 
HEISMAN WATCH 
TYDETMER  touchdowns in 56-14 win over NavySeason: 42 of 77  
Brigham Young. Junior QB  passing for 650 yards, eight touchdowns and one  
Saturday: Completed 32 of 50 passes for 448 yards and  interception.  
five touchdowns with two interceptions in 50-36 victory  TODD MARINOVICH  
over Washington State.Season: 103 of 150 passing for 1241  USC, sophomore QBSaturday: 22 of 34 passing for  
yards, nine touchdowns and five interceptions in three  240 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions in  
games.  19-14 victory over Penn State.Season: 47 of 69  
RAGHIB ISMAIL  passing for 577 yards, four touchdowns and no  
Notre Dame, Junior wide receiverSaturday: Touched the  interceptions.  
ballll times for 123 yards-56 yards on six carries, 42 on  CRAIG ERICKSON  
none kickoff return in Notre Dame's 28-24 victory over  Miami, senior QB  
Michigan.  Saturday: 32 of 47 passing for 467 yards, four  
SHAWN MOORE  touchdowns and no interceptions in win over  
Virginia, Senior QBSaturday: Passed for 251 yards and  Califomia.Season: 60 of 99 passing for 766 yards,  
four touchdowns and ran for 35 yards and two  four touchdowns and no interceptions.  

their own. culminating with an acrobatic "bicycle" shot by
Soccer 
halfback Mitch Kern which nearly resulted in the game's
continued from page 20 
first score. remarked senior captain and However, in the waning mo­stopper Paul LaVigne. "With the ments of the first half, St. Louis exception of a couple fluke managed to take advantage of a 
goals, it was very effective." 
rare collapse of the Notre Dame 
By the middle of the first half, defense as Billiken forward the Irish began mounting an 
Ritchie Bright lofted a shot over 
impressive offensive attack of the head of Notre Dame goalie 
ou can pick your friends,you can _pick your nose Now you can pick your friend's nose." 

~ ~,; 
. •;~r ~ 

Happy "21" Birthday 
~~ '?4HU4 

For those interested in joining the 
ND-SMC Pre-Law Society, 
there will be a general meeting on Monday, September 17, at 7 p.m. 
in the Cushing Auditorium. 
All are encouraged to attend. 
Matt Fitz to give the Billikens a 
1-0 lead. 
The score quieted the small but 
enthusiastic crowd at Krause, 
but the Irish continued to play 
with intensity for the remainder 
of the first half, narrowly missing 
several scoring opportunities. 
Notre Dame came out strong in 
the second period, continuing to 
harass the Billiken defense and 
forcing St. Louis to slow the 
tempo of the match with a string 
of conservative passes which 
chewed up nearly four minutes 
from the clock. 
With thirty one minutes re­
maining in the game, the Irish 
inexperience began to show as 
the defense unraveled and a 
seemingly harmless shot by 
Billiken forward Kevin Huber 
deflected off a host of defenders 
and into the net, boosting the St. 
Louis lead to 2-0. 
"The second goal was due to a mistake caused by immaturity," Berticelli commented. "We have to stop allowing the cheap goals if we expect to play with the top teams." 
Following the second Billiken score, Notre Dame managed to regain its composure, and at the 29 minute mark wingback Kenyon Meyer drilled a brilliant shot past goalie Kevin Johnston, recharging the Irish offense and cutting the lead in half. 
The Irish continued to press St. Louis, and with thirteen minutes left in regulation the team's perseverance again paid off in the form of an unassisted Mario Tricoci goal which tied the score at 2-2. 
The deadlock was short-lived as Billiken forward Steve Kuntz took matters into his own hands, dribbling the length of the field and placing a pinpoint shot into the corner of the Irish net. giving St. Louis the lead for good. 
Despite the loss, Berticelli remained optimistic about his team's future, which includes a home matchup tonight with in­trastate rival Valparaiso. 
"You saw a different team out there tonight," he said. "This game will help us get over the hump." 
Valparaiso, which returns eight starters from last year's 5-16 squad, will enter Krause Stadium today winless in nineteen attempts versus the Irish. 
ij page 18 
I •I 
Irish women win a pair 
...t~(
\), 
in weekend homestand 
u: 
i' By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (3-2) wrapped up a successful weekend at home on
J Sunday afternoon, dumping
II 
Washington University 2-0 just two days after recording a 12-1 ambush of Valparaiso. 
1' 
On Friday, the Irish overcame a delayed game start and slip­l pery field conditions to handily 
\I 
trounce the visiting club team. \ 
I 
l 
Against Valparaiso, Susie L Zilvitis opened the Irish scoring book at the 13:00 mark of the first half, scoring on an assist from Marianne Giolitto. h Giolitto, who had a goal nulli-· 
\ 
tied by a questionable call only seconds earlier, chipped a pass over a wall of defenders to the waiting Zilvitis for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
Sophomore Margaret Jarc found the net 15:00 later, as she drilled a shot from the front left corner of the penalty box over the flailing hands of Valparaiso goalie Jen Baird. 
"I guess that this game proves that our program has maybe progressed beyond playing club teams," stated Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Its great that so many kids played and scored. I'm happy with that. But I cannot honestly say 
that we are a better team after this game. "We have spent lots of time 
\ 
:l 
working on crossing and scor­
I 
ing on crosses, and seven or
\ d 
eight of our goals in this game 
were as a result of that work, so 
I'm pleased about that." Notre Dame dominated every
~~ facet of the game, next scoring 
1,, on a fast break by freshman
rl,.
.,. Alison Lester of Schaumburg, Illinois. Lester took a pass near
1\ 
midfield and motored past the 
Hoyas teach ND a difficult lesson 
l:
It By RICH MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 

\. 
j 
As expected, the Georgetown women's cross country team dominated the Irish at Burke Memorial golf course on
L! 
H 
Saturday. All 11 of Georgetown's runners placed in front of the overmatched Irish. } j· ~ Georgetown's Susan Dahn took first place in the meet,
)1 
\i i~ running the 5,000 meters in an 
IIt·, 
impressive 17:48.2. The closest
,.;-Irish finisher was junior Diana Bradley, who came in a distant twelfth, but still managed to defense before putting her shot into the goal for a 3-0 Irish edge. 
Moments later, Margaret Jarc, on an assist from Susie Zilvitis, tallied her second goal of the afternoon on a fast break putting Notre Dame on top 4-o: Only four minutes later, Stephanie Porter, on another Zilvitis assist, burnt the Valparaiso defenders for a 5-0 margin. 
Notre Dame, which had 15 shots in the first half (35 in the game). closed out its first half scoring when Alison Lester headed a pass from Zilvitis into the net. 
Valparaiso's lone score came with 1:10 left in the first half, as Lueene Vernerine fed Kim Heinrich, who blasted a shot past Irish goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga. 
The second half saw the Irish continue their domination, as they rattled off six more goals. Freshman Tasha Strawbridge had a second-half hat trick, with two unassisted goals and one assisted by Marta Roemer. Freshman Christie Lewis also nailed two goals (with assists from Brenda Gorski and Marta Roemer). 
Sophomore midfielder Denise Chabot added a goal on an as­sist from Tasha Strawbridge. Strawbridge's hat trick was the first of the season for Notre Dame. 
On Sunday, the Irish attack was not quite as sharp, as they rebounded from a scoreless first half to defeat the Bears of Washington University. 
Although Notre Dame outshot its opponent 15-1 (6-0 in the second halO. goals were very hard to come by. The harried Irish faced quite a task in beating Washington goalie 
break the 19 minute mark with a time of 18:47.5. She was fol­lowed by fellow junior Amy Blaising, who ran in a time of 18:58.5. 
The race began with the Irish in decent position after the first quarter of the race. Bradley and Blaising only trailed a pack of five Hoya runners with another group of six Hoya runners trailing them. At the half way point, though, that had all changed. The six Georgetown runners over took the two Irish runners and the race was de­cided at that point. The 11 

WALKAWAY ... 

Hoyas never looked back in coasting to the victory. 
"We knew Georgetown was tough, so we tried to run as a team," said Bradley of the ill­fated strategy. 
"This kind of race teaches us that we have the talent and can use the experience to work against other teams," contin­ued Bradley. 
"You can't be happy until you win. We knew Georgetown was one of the top three teams in the country. All we can do is just keep working," said a somber Irish coach Tim Connell . 
A NOONTIME WALKING PROGRAM FOR FITNESS 
LUNCHTIME ON TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS STARTS SEPTEMBER 18 12:15-12:45PM 
ENJOY FRESH AIR AND GOOD COMPANY MEET IN FRONT OF WASHINGTON HALL BY 12:15 WEAR GOOD WALKING SHOES 
2 MILE ROUTES MODERATE PACE 
SPONSORED BY NVA 

The Irish women's soccer team hammered Valparaiso on Friday, 12-1. 
Jennifer Haddad, but they found a way to do it at the 
60:38 mark. Susie Zilvitis, who had been robbed by Haddad in the first half, took an assist from Alison Lester and beat the formidable Haddad for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
"Although we dominated the game, there was no chance of us losing," observed Petrucelli. "We could have made it easier if we had finished our chances, but we didn't, and that led them to believe that they could play with us, when they had no business believing that." 
"I'm happy with the way we played, but I'm not necessarily happy with the result, because we wanted to score some more goals." 
A minor controversy over the interpretation of the new NCAA substitution rules followed the first Irish score, with referee Galen Graber sticking to the book. Graber, consistent with the 1990 NCAA rulebook, said that an inured player who has been substituted may not return. General substitution rules state that once a player has come off the field, that player may not return until the next half. 
If a player is injured, the coach may remove that player and play one player short until the injured player is able to re­take the field. The coach may also substitute for that injured player. If the coach chooses to substitute for the injured player, that player removed may not play again until the next half. 
However, this slight officiat­ing controversy was only one of many between the coaches and referees on the day. 
Notre Dame's final score came with just under 10 min­utes remaining in the contest, as Alison Lester continued her two-day scoring rampage. Lester, who took an assist from Marianne Giolitto, headed a point-blank shot over the head of the Washington keeper to seal the Irish win. 
"Alison Lester was outstand­ing," noted coach Chris Petrucelli. "She was dangerous today. They did not stop her, and they never dealt with her at all." 
"This was a good weekend for us. We scored some goals and we got two good wins. Things are starting to come to­gether. We're starting to play better, and we are getting bet­ter all the time. It's all starting to show on the field." 
Next up for Notre Dame is a Wednesday evening home matchup with Saint Jose h's. 
Monday, September 17, 1990 
Victory propels Notre Dame to No. 1 in nation 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame is the new top team in the National College Sportswriters Poll released Sunday evening. 
The Irish, 28-24 winners over Michigan Saturday night in Notre Dame Stadium, received 23 first-place votes and 569 to­tal points in the poll. They were second in last week's poll. 
Florida State, last week's top team, dropped to second with four first-place votes and 545 total points. The Seminoles, 2­0, downed Georgia Southern 48-6 on Saturday. 
Auburn remained at number­three after beating Mississippi 24-10 to up its record to 2-0. Brigham Young is ranked fourth and received one first­place vote. 
The National College Sportswriters Poll with first·place votes in parentheses, 
records and total points.  
1 . Notre Dame (23) 1-0  569  
2. Florida St. (4) 2-0  
545  
3. Auburn (1) 2-0  509  
4. Brigham Young (1) 3-0  464  
5. usc 2-0  428  
6. Tennessee 3-0-1  410  
7. Michigan 0-1  371  
8. Miami 1-1  361  
9. Virgini<;~ 3-0  349  
10. Nebraska 2-0  339  
11 . Oklahoma 2-0  301  
12. Texas A&M 2-0  256  
13. Arkansas 1-0  184  
14. Colorado 1-1-1  150  
15. Ohio State 2-0  146  
16. Clemson 2-1  134  
17. Illinois 1-1  121  
18. Florida2-0  101  
19. Houston 2-0  92  
20. Arizona 2-0  75  

Others receiving votes: Washington 67, Pittsburgh 26, Michigan State 22, Arizona State 19, Texas 17, Syracuse 5, Oregon 4, Yale 3, Fresno State 3, Alabama 3, Georgia Tech 1, Penn State 1, Toledo 1. 
Writers and editors from the following schools voted in this week's poll: Columbia, West Virginia, Kansas, Clemson, Michigan, Ball State, Brown, Purdue, Virginia, NC State, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Texas, Cornell, Penn State, Oregon, Brigham Young, Notre Dame, Pennsylvania, Alabama, Arizona, Houston, Arizona State, Utah, Southern California, Duke, Colorado, Harvard, Indiana. 
l.Jpcoming Events 
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 18 
Lecture 

JOHN J. GILLIGAN Director, Institute for International Peace Studies 
"BEHIND THE RED, WHITE & BLUE: 
U.S. INTERESTS AND POLICIES IN THE MIDDLE EAST' 4:15p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
WEDNESDA~SEPTEMBER19 
Information Session 

GEORGE A. LOPEZ Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies and Associate Professor, Government and International Studies 
"HOW TO SEARCH FOR A GRADUATE SCHOOL IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AND/OR PEACE STUDIES" 4:15p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR
••• INTERNATIONAL 
111111~~~~~~ 

Monday, September 17, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Monday 
6:30 p.m. Lecture: "How to Help a Friend with an Eating Problem," Rita Donley, staff psychologist, coordinator of Clinical Services, University Counseling Center. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Year of Women Committee, University Food Services and University Counseling Center. 
7:30 p.m. Keynote Address: "Life of Mind: Are We Having Fun Yet?" Dorothy Feigl, Vice President and Dean of Faculty Saint Mary's College. O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar: "Transition to Democracy in Central Europe. A Comparison Between the Hungarian and Polish Roundtable Negotiations," Faculty Fellow Laszlo Bruszt, Hungarian Academy of Science. 
Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Brown Bag Lunch. 
12:15 p.m. First of six part session series on under­standing and managing family resources: "Household Budgeting," Ms. Luz Aquino of Independent Means, Inc. Room 121, Hayes Healy. Sponsored by Year of Women Committee, Hesburgh Library and the Accountancy Department. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Southern Fried Chicken Shepherd's Pie Pasta Bar-Meat Sauce Roast Chicken Quarters 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
LtT's 'SIART AI 1\\t. ljH,I!Uill,"'-' 1 TIW3 \SI-lT W11EN '{()J AD!> SCMEf\.\ING, '(OU 
IRRt.LE.'I~~~­/IICREAS£ 'NHf\1 '100 1-11\~. '{01.1 
~R'\O~E 

(OM8111£. 
NEEDS i\::1 
l OON'r WMH 
'F:,N()'t-1 "11-115. 10 lE.A.R~ T\-\\'S! 1\S COMPLE.IEL'( 

IRRE.Lt.'I~Ni TO. -"......_-:,.___,M'i LIVE.' 
., 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

ACROSS 
t North African city 
5 "Per ardua ad -,"R.A.F. motto 
to Yawn t4 Erstwhile White 
House pet t5 Wise preceder t6 Not written t 7 Chekhov play 20 Made tracks 2t Pal Joey's 
creator 22 Scarlett's 
terrain 23 Federal agcy. 24 Steps over 
fences 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Stripped 30 Frighten with 
threats 33 Mushroom 34 Teen-ager's 
plight 35 Mitigate 36 Forster novel 39 Painter Magritte 40Scram! 41 African republic 42 Prefix with dent 
or sect 43 Unhearing 44 Hognose 
snakes 45 Creek 46 Memorable 
Surrealist 48 Fountain drinks 
CROSSWORD 
51 Obscure riddles 
55 O'Neill play 
59 Legal right 60 Connect again 
61 Manitoban Indian 62 Bungler's apology 63 Hardwood trees 64Facsimile 
DOWN 
t Recurrently, to Donne 2Yale Bowl sounds 3AWaugh 4lntl. pact 5 Arterial ducts &Bum-(bad advice) 
7 Auden poem 

•
8 Legal thing 

9 Onassis  
nickname  
~='+=+"-1  to Barbarians  
~:+.=+-:=-+=i~ -~~"'-~  1t Neighborhood  
~:::-t::::t'i  12 Henry VIII's  
Catherine  
13 Designer  
Schiaparelli  

BB=+::-t-::;.-.ll!!'t--:-+.;:::+::,-E -.r.:+.::t'i 18 Tourists' stopovers 
Comb. form 24 Sting 25 Barfly 


BILL WATTERSON 
£'/EN ~'5 ~£ Sf9.K, ~LIE~S ~ utiOOOBru>L~ 
I~HLiAATI~G 
11\E "IGWC"SI lE'JElS Cf OJR 
G<:l~MENT. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
5££? DRAMAnc PI(I;:)Qf M-T VFOs LAAOED II()\ A. 
"WOR£0 FEH FROM t-« 1¥YJS'C! 1\\EIR ~ ROC.IDS BURNED Sll\D ROCK \N10 1\\1'5 W-GILE GAA'( OOsr C\JBE! 
\ 
26 Tabriz native 21 --majeste 29Biblical 
preposition 30Beg 31 Willow tree 32 Has on 34 Ottoman bigwig 35 Geraint's wife 37 On the Baltic 38 Shade of blue 43 Record 

THE FAR SIDE 
44"­
Restaurant," 1969film 
45 Cloudbursts 
47 Laurie or Rooney 48 Town west of Caen 49 Mississippi feeder 
so Unfathomable 52 MC doubled 53 Prefix with 
drome 54 Short distance s&NOWgoal 57 My: Fr. sa Attention­
getting call 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 


f 
rfl
i! i 1· 
j!' 
:ti 
;,t: . 
~~; Sports
\'I: 
page 20 Monday, September 17, 1990
\ 
\ 
:I 
Irish gun down Michigan with fourth-quarter rally 
i· 
,,' 
') '\ NO scores 14 points in final stanza, holds on to defeat Wolverines and ruin Moeller's debut 
\'I, 
II By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor

I~"\~ 
Rick Mirer saved his best for
·' I, 
)'I' last.
I;· 
Notre Dame's sophomore quarterback, who shuns com­
li":
I ~ parisons to Joe Montana, posed I I~ a striking resemblance to the
I I ~ 
1~': 49ers star when he led the Irish on a nine-play, 76-yard scoring 
l1' 
drive in the closing minutes of Saturday night's thrilling 28-24
ll·\' 
victory over Michigan. It was not unlike the drive Montana
I; 
sparked in San Francisco's Super Bowl XXIII win over 
.lt 
Cincinnati. 

i 
I
r Top-ranked Notre Dame ral­
I 
lied from a 10-point, fourth­
l'r 
quarter deficit to defeat fourth­ranked Michigan and become the first team in 24 years to
\' 
beat the Wolverines four
1\ 
straight times. 

Mirer completed five of six passes on the final scoring 
'\ 
\ 
drive, including the game win­ner-an 18-yard strike to
l' 
flanker Adrian Jarrell between two defenders with 1:40 re­maining-in his first collegiate start. 

"We never gave up hope," Head Coach Lou Holtz said after the game. "We just kept our poise and moved the ball down the field. The thing I was scared of is that we scored too early." 
Holtz's fear was compounded when Desmond Howard re­
( \' 
I 
turned Craig Hentrich's ensuing kickoff to the Michigan 
41. But on the next play, cornerback Reggie Brooks intercepted Elvis Grbac's pass intended for Howard at the Notre Dame 40, preserving the Irish victory and spoiling the debut of Wolverine Head Coach Gary Moeller. 
"When we came in here," Moeller said, "we felt like we were going to win this football game, and this hurts. A couple of calls by me probably didn't prove out to be very good calls." 
The most significant of those calls came with just over ten minutes remaining in the game and Michigan looking to build on its 24-21 lead, facing a first­and-ten situation at the Notre Dame 11. Although tailback Jon Vaughn had already sliced through the Irish defense for 55 yards in three carries on the drive (22 carries for 201 yards overall), Moeller called for a pass play that was picked off by inside linebacker Michael Stonebreaker in the end zone. 
"I made that call all on my own and we just didn't execute the play," said Moeller. "It was quite honestly a high-percent­age pass, but nothing's a given in this game." 
The only certainty in any 


Notre Dame-Michigan matchup is that no lead is insurmount­able as long as there is time remaining on the clock. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 14-3 first-quarter advantage behind an opportunistic defense and a well-balanced offense. Safety Greg Davis set up the first Irish score when he recovered Vaughn's fumble at the Michigan 26. The turnover was caused by a miscommunication in the Wolverine backfield, an indirect result of Michigan's no-huddle offense. 
"We knew we had to do one thing to come in here and beat this team," Moeller said. "We had to set the tempo on both sides of the football. It seemed to be effective for the most part." 
The Irish offense seized the opportunity and drew first blood when Mirer completed a six-play drive with a three-yard option run for the opening score. 
Following a 38-yard field goal by J.D. Carlson, Notre Dame put together an impres­sive 11-play, 75-yard scoring drive to go ahead 14-3. Mirer hit tailback Ricky Watters for 17 yards and a first down and flanker Raghib Ismail for 14 yards. Fullback Rodney Culver (a career-high 95 yards on 19 carries) set up the touchdown with a 20-yard run to the Michigan two, and Tony Brooks 
see VICTORY I page 16 


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Wolverine _tailback Jon Va.ughn rushed for 201 yards against the Irish, the most smce Penn State s Blair Thomas rambled for 214 in 1987. 
Mirer enjoys talking about 'THE DRIVE' 
Someone shouted a good warning in the Notre Dame lockerroom to sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer after he had rallied the Irish to a 28-24 victory over Michigan Saturday night. 
"Get ready Rick," he said. "Here they come." 
But Mirer didn't seem to mind because the reporters and TV cameras were there for the right reasons -to talk about THE DRIVE in which he led the Irish to the winning touchdown in the closing minutes of Saturday's game. 
At least they weren't here to ask him why he hit Michigan free safety Vada Murray in the numbers with a pass deep in Wolverine territory earlier in the fourth quarter (He answered anyway: "Tony Smith was wide open. I was excited and I wanted to get him the ball."). Or how it felt to lose in his first career start at Notre Dame (He made sure he didn't have to answer that one). 
Notre Dame runners hammer Hoyas 
By BARB MORAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team started off its season on the right foot, cap­turing a decisive 20-41 upset over 12th-ranked Georgetown Saturday morning. 
The Irish, who are currently,. ranked 13th in the nation, tookil a strong lead at the outset and held it until the end of the S­mile race. A pack of nine run­l ners, seven from Notre Dame, led for the first three miles. ( --When the group split at the 
I four mile mark, Irish harriers \ 
Mike O'Connor and John Coyle took the lead, followed closely:I by Ryan Cahill of the Irish and 
I; 
" 
Steve Holman of the Hoyas. 
O'Connor crossed the finish line first, with a time of 24:43.3, and was followed only two seconds later by Georgetown's Holman. Coyle, Cahill, and Patrick Kearns cap­tured the remaining three of the top five spots for the Irish. Overall, Notre Dame had seven runners finish in the top ten, including freshman Mike McWilliams, who placed ninth. 
Irish coach Joe Piane was ex­tremely pleased, though not surprised, by his team's strong performance, and expects them to continue improving. 
"It was a great meet," said Piane, "it's obvious that we were underrated (in the na­

tiona! rankings), and it's hard to expect us not to go up. The team ran very well, and once 
J.T. Burke is back in, we'll be even better." 
Burke skipped the meet due to illness and is questionable for Notre Dame's next meet, the National Catholic Invitational on September 28. 
Piane is planning to keep the Irish working hard for the next several weeks in preparation for several invitationals and the NCAA trials on November 25. The upset over the Hoyas should give the Irish a strong boost in the national rankings and begin the momentum needed to carry them into the postseason. 

Greg Guffey 
Sports Editor 
This was a time when Mirer didn't care if they stayed all night, if they asked him to replay all four quarters and discuss everything he's done from birth to his first Irish victory. He knew that once he left that room there would be little time to savor the victory. 
"I wasn't really nervous even though I had a lot on my mind," said Mirer, who wears the same number as former Notre Dame and San Francisco great Joe Montana. "I grew up a fan of Michigan and it was sweet to get my first victory against them. I knew too many guys on that team to have let them take away my first chance at victory." 
It used to be that Mirer could be the first one to shower and exit the lockerroom. He probably received more media attention in his senior year at nearby Goshen High than he did in his freshman year at Notre Dame. 
But THE DRIVE changed that. 
Trailing 24-21 with 4:33 left in the game, the Irish took over at their own 24. Mirer overthrew a wide open Tony Smith on the first play and then scrambled for four yards on the second. 
The third-and-six play might have been Mirer's best. After being flushed out of the 
see MIRER I page 16 
Men lose heartbreaker to St. Louis; prepare to meet Valparaiso today 
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team gathered on the rain soaked Krause Stadium field Friday night knowing an upset of the ninth-ranked St. Louis University Billikens would avenge last year's MCC Championship loss and ensure the Irish national recognition. 
Although the team was un­able to realize its goal, ulti­mately dropping a heartbreak­ing 3-2 decision, the Irish, who will host Valparaiso today at 
7:30 p.m. at Krause Stadium, did not emerge from the defeat empty handed. 
"We gained some valuable experience tonight," said a dejected coach Mike Berticelli following the con­test. "Unfortunately, our kids deserved to win." 
It was apparent from the match's onset that the Irish had little respect for the highly touted St. Louis squad, as they thwarted the sophisticated Billiken pass­ing attack with tenacious defensive play 
see SOCCER I page 16 




