
VOL. XXIII NO. 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush will strike without hesitancy if provoked 
'Just doing my job,' says Bush 
OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla. (AP) taxers, by the liberal -President Bush said Monday Democrats," Bush said in a "we'd have no hesitancy at all" sharply political attack eight to use military force in the Per­days before Election Day. sian Gulf if provoked by Iraq Meanwhile, Secretary of State and indicated he feels no obli­James Baker was echoing 



gation to get Congress' ap­Bush's tough gulf statements in proval. a speech in Los Angeles. 
"History is replete with ex­"We are exhausting every amples where the president has diplomatic avenue to achieve (a had to take aetion," Bush said. peaceful) solution without fur­Apparently referring to the U.S. ther bloodshed," Baker said. invasion of Panama, Bush said, But he added, "Let no one "I've done this in the past, and doubt: We will not rule out a eertainly, somebody mentioned possible use of force if Iraq provocation, we'd have no hesi­continues to occupy Kuwait." 
tancy at all." The White House policy in the Bush said he was not trying to Persian Gulf has won strong prepare the country for war. bipartisan support in Congress, ''I'm just doing my job as although there is a growing president of the United States," feeling that Bush should consult he said. ''I'm not preparing lawmakers before sending anybody for anything. I'm as troops into any combat. More determined as I've ever been than 200,000 American forces that this aggression will not have been deployed to the gulf stand." after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of 
Bush spoke at an airport Kuwait. news conference in San Fran­Defense Secretary Dick Ch­ciseo after campaigning for eney said last week that as while the agreement was being

Hepublican Sen. Pete Wilson in many as 100,000 more troops be asked in advance before he said Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev "is holding just as put together but now is takinghis raee for governor. Later, he may be dispatched. sends troops into action. 
flew to Oklahoma City to ap­The gulf crisis will be at the "I know the authorities that a firm as he can. And that's good, ofT the gloves. pear at the Cowboy Hall of top of the agenda when Bush president has," Bush said. ''I'm you see, because that sends a 
strong signal that the free "I don't like being on the de­
Fame with Bill Price, the GOP meets with congressional lead­working to try to get this matter 
candidate for governor in Ok­ers at the White House on resolved peacefully. We have a world is united against this fense," he said. "I like being on the offense."
lahoma. Tuesday. The president also is lot of force there and they're dictator." Shrugging ofT his slump in the to consult with Cheney and well trained, they're highly mo­The Oklahoma stop concluded 
president hit

polls, he aceused Demoerats of Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of tivated and that alone is send­a five-day campaign trip that The will 
Democrats again in a speech in
trying to win elections through the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who ing an enormously strong signal took Bush as far west as Hawaii "tax the rieh, class warfare just returned from the Middle to Sad dam Hussein." while Congress was wrapping Washington on Tuesday and 
Bush also said the Soviet up a $490 billion deficit­then hit the road Thursday for
kind of garbage." East. "I think people know that this Bush appeared unmoved by Union remains aligned with the reduction agreement. Bush said nonstop campaigning until the 
Congress is controlled by the demands that Congress should United States against Iraq. He he had felt politically restrained election. 
O'Hara reinstates last year's advertising policy for bands 
policy with respect to posting of 
ample of students and the ad­fer to alcoholic beverages in
By JOHN O'BRIEN 

advertisements for student ministration working together any form cannot be posted or
Managing Editor 

band performances at estab­to improve campus life," Pasin distributed on any University lishments serving alcohol." said in response to the letter. property."
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­

The resolution was unani­Controversy surrounding the After student dissatisfactiondent for Student Affairs, rein­mously approved by the CLC on issue arose earlier this year with the new policy was ex­stated on Thursday last year's October 15 and was sent to after Student Affairs prohibited pressed in The Observer on Oc­policy concerning the posting of O'Hara, who had seven days to the on-campus distribution of tober 10, and after the resolu­
advertisements for student 

band performances ofT-campus. issue a decision on the resolu­flyers. This action was taken tion was brought to the CLC, tion. Had she rejected the reso­after "a number of student O'Hara met with Associate Vice
Her acceptance of Campus 

lution, the CLC would not be band advertisements appeared President for Student Affairs
Life Couneil Resolution 

#909101 reverses a policy able to override her veto. which had not been approved John Goldrick, and Sister Jean While O'Hara accepted the by the Director of Student Ac­Lenz and Father Peter Rocca,
adopted by the Office of Student 

resolution, she expressed tivities and which violated the assistant vice presidents forAffairs in May of this year. The "minor differences of opinion" guidelines of the prior policy." Student Affairs, to reevaluatepolicy prohibited on-campus 

Patricia O'Hara

with some of the resolution's This caused Student Affairs to the decision. 
distribution of flyers for student 

language. at off-campus establishments reexamine the policy and issue "We decided that the previous
band performances at 

"For example, I think that serving alcohol," she said. "I do, a literal interpretation of the policy sufficiently satisfies theestablishments serving alcohol. 
student bands take advantage however, concur in the reso­passage in du Lac which states: spirit of the provision and isIn a letter to Student Body of opportunities to perform at lution." "Advertising for events consistent with advertising cur-
President Hob Pasin, O'Hara 

on-campus events not involving "The passage and approval of involving the use of alcohol
said "The Office of Student Af­

alcohol, as well as performing this resolution is a perfect ex-which directly or indirectly re-see BANDS I page 6fairs will reinstate last year's 

CLC calls for new responsibility 
By CATHY FLYNN suit in collective responsibility. for hall improvements was 
Avoidance of such situations is withheld, he continued. sought through discussions be­In the event of an incident tween the appropriate adminis­such as this, "the Office of Stu­
News Writer 
Collective responsibility should replace the current pol­trative office and proper stu­dent Affairs will contact ap­
dent officers. propriate student leaders," ac­icy of collective punishment, ac­
cording to a unanimous resolu­"This is not just a response to cording to the resolution. This tion made by the Campus Life the snowball fight of last year," coalition will work toward the Council. said Singh. Because this is one adoption of action which of the few incidents in which stresses collective responsibil­
"The actions of a few should not result in the punishment of the University withheld dorm ity. 
many," Raja Singh, executive funds as a campus-wide collec­coordinator of the Student tive punishment, it is cited often The resolution will be sent to Government Legal Department. as an example In discussions of Patricia O'Hara, vice-president 
the new resolution, he added. of Student Affairs, for approval
Collective punishment involves actions against the innocent as Collective punishment did not or rejection. She must respond well as the guilty, he added. work in this particular situa­within seven days, citing her 
Members of the Campus Life Council drew up a resolution emphasizing The resolution encompasses tion, according to Singh. People rationale for either action, ac­collective responsibility for incidents such as last year's snowball fight incidents involving the entire who damaged the University's cording to Rob Pasin, student as opposed to the present policy of collective punishment. property did not care if money body president. 
student body which might re­


page 2 The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER Lines show high temperatures.

Healthier food would improve students' lives 
I spent October break complaining to my mother about how difficult it is to main­tain good eating habits at Notre Dame, when the four food groups are: the pizza family; the Alison Cocks burger and fries fam­ily; the chips, pretzels, Editor-in-Chief and other snack food family; and the dessert family. 

Periodically, I suffer from the irrational urge to purge my body of junk food (and a few pounds into the bargain), particularly immediately before social and professional situations which require me to behave like a civilized human being. 
These harebrained endeavors border on masochism because I've found that "eating right" at Notre Dame usually restricts me to about two or three possible meals. 
I was pleasantly surprised to discover 
that the dining halls have introduced the 
lighter fares during meals. Before this 
week, I found that healthy eating in the din­

~­
ing hall usually meant heading for the salad bar. 
No matter how wide the variety of vegeta­bles, my tolerance for rabbit food, and therefore my desire to eat healthy meals, usually lasts about three days. Low-calorie, low-cholesterol selections are much-needed additions, but efforts should not stop there. 
If I miss a meal, or skip the dining hall, what then? If either my car or the weather is feeling contrary, I'm stuck with food I can find on campus. 
Anyone with the metabolism rate to com­pensate for their food choices can subsist on Huddleburgers with cheese, fries, chips, pizza and candy without having to worry about effects on the waistline. 
Mere mortals aren't so fortunate, and find few alternatives to this fare outside the dining halls. Although Flavor of the Orient in the Huddle offers a salad bar and a good stir-fry, it closes at 6:30 p.m. After that, only the ice-cream shop, the Bull Pit Grill, 
Leprechaun Pizza and the deli are open. 
Needless to say, the first three can be eliminated right away in the quest for healthy food, and aside from ready-made salads and popcorn, there is little in the deli that is particularly nutritious. The same holds true for dorm foodsales and vending machines. 
No wonder eating disorders prevail on campus: dieting is difficult and hunger after 

1 
6:30 p.m. usually means ordering fast food and feeling guilty later. 
It surprises me that Notre Dame has not followed the health craze which is pervading America. Cliches such as "freshman fifteen" and the more direct "I'm so fat" can be heard less frequently, but first the Univer­sity must provide better means for students to lead the healthy lifestyles many others across the country have already chosen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 219)·239•74 71
Today's Staff: ( Graphics 
Ad Design Mike Muldoon News Amy Eckert Joe Moody Dannika Simpson Lab Tech Kevaleen Ryan Joy Mueller David Lee Monica Yant Luke Lytell 
Jennifer McCarter Photographers Accent Eliza Klosterman 
Production 
Jennifer Guerin Beth Peterson Andrew McCloskey Janelle Harrigan Christine Anderson Pat Kusak Paige Smoron John Studebaker 
VIewpoint Ken Osgood Sports Jay Colucci Scott Brutocao 
Circulation Scoreboard: Systems Kathleen O'Conner Rolando DeAguiar Jon Stewart John O'Brian Cesar Capella 
Alison Cocks 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-· ·-·-·-·---------------' 


Yesterday's high: 56 Yesterday's low: 27 
Nation's high: 97 (Borrego Springs, Calif. and Parker Ariz.) Nation's low: 1 7 
(Hardin, Mont.) 
Forecast: Sunny and warm today with highs in the mid 60s. Partly cloudy tonight with lows in the low 40s. To­morrow, sunny with highs in the low 60s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
A

® © ~ ~ w rz:J ~ 


T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

The Office of the Provost will present a London Program applications are now recital, "Yeats: A Passionate Life," at 4 p.m. in the Hes-available at the program office, Room 103, burgh Library Auditorium. The recital will be performed O'Shaughnessy Hall. Completed applications are due no by Geoffrey Church, an actor with "Actors from the Lon-later than tomorrow. don Stage" in residence here this week. 
Junior Class Halloween Party will be at El CARGILL, one of the world's largest commodity Campito, tomorrow at 2:30-5 p.m. Contact Steve Petros firms, will present a case study today on acquisitions at at 283-2230 for more information. 
4:15 p.m. in Montgomery Theater. Accounting, tax, and financial issues will be discussed. Pizza and refreshments Student Union Board and Graduate Student in LaFortune will follow. This event is sponsored by Beta Union will host a Halloween party for the children of Alpha Psi. Notre Dame faculty, staff, and graduate students toJllo,r­
row from 4-6 p.m. Refreshments, activities and Halloween 
Robert Waddick. assistant dean of Arts and Let­surprises will be provided. ters and pre-law advisor, will conduct an informational meeting on types of law school scholarships available at 
4:30 p.m. today in Room 215A, O'Shaughnessy Hall. As­The Graduate Student Union will have a sistant Dean William McLean of the Notre Dame Law Halloween party for graduate students tomorrow from 8 School will also discuss the scholarship opportunities at p.m. to midnight in the lounge of Wilson Commons. GSU Notre Dame. will provide refreshments and WVFI will furnish music. 
Costumes are encouraged, although not required.
Philosophy majors and double majors are in­vited to a meeting at 7 p.m. this evening in Room 104, O'Shaughnessy Hall. There will be two topics of discus­Mail Boxes Etc. has launched "Operation Desert sion: going to graduate school in philosophy and the or­Santa," and will offer free postage on the first two ganization of a philosophy club. pounds of holiday packages going to military personnel in 
the Middle East through Nov. 16. For more details, call 
Saint Mary's registration has been moved Mail Boxes Etc. at 277-MAIL, or stop by the store located from today until sometime after Thanksgiving. Registra­on S.R. 23, just east of Ironwood, across from the Green­tion/course booklets are available. wood Shopping Center. 
NATIONAL Xavier Cugat. the band leader New York, the New England Express, who introduced the tropical rhythms 
that is intended to make the 230-mile trip in under four of the rumba to millions of Americans hours. The first trip Sunday almost met the mark. The died Saturday in a Barcelona hospital Express left Boston's South Station at 11:15 a.m. and 
at the age of 90. He was reported to arrived at Penn Station in Manhattan at 3:18 p.m., eight have suffered from severe heart fail­minutes late, for an average speed of 57 mph, including ure. "Coogie," as he became known to stops. The trip has taken about four hours and 40 admirers all over the world, reached minutes in the past, for an average speed of about 45 stardom in the early 1930s playing mph. By comparison, Japan's "bullet" trains travel at Latin music at the Coconut Grove in Los Angelos and about 130 mph, and France's high-speed trains hit about later performing before audiences at the Waldorf-Astoria 200 mph. Both have exclusive use of all-new tracks. To in New York. shorten the ride, Amtrak officials want to electrify the 
entire Boston to New York route. The ultimate time goal 
is a trip under three hours. 
INDIANA ALMANAC
MARKET UPDATE 

On Oct. 30: 
Legislation to expand the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore died when Congress adjourned before the House could act on its final 
eln 1902: Avolcanic eruption rav­version. Rep. Peter Visclosky, a Merrillville 
Volume in shares 
ages main coffee region in Guatemala. Democrat, refused to accept a Senate-passed 
133.98 Million 

eln 1914: The United States an­nounces a $10 million war loan to version of the bill, which greatly scaled back the 
proposed expansion. Visclosky and his House France.
colleagues sent their original plan back to the Senate, where it arrived minutes before Congress NYSE Index 
eln 1922: "Geometric art" becomes
adjourned for the year early Sunday. The 165.24 ~ 1.47 
the new artistic movement in Paris.
Democrat and Indiana environmentalists agreed S&P Composite that no bill was preferable to the Senate version 301.88 .. 2.83 
eln 1944: Germans execute 700drafted by Sen. James McClure, R-ldaho. Dow Jones Industrials civilians in Marzabotto near Genes.
2,430.20 • 5.94 
Precious Metals 

eTen Years Ago: Senator Harri­Gold -it$2.80 to $373.70/oz. 
son Williams is indicted in Washington for bribery in the Abscam case. 
Silver 11-7.7¢ to $4.127/oz. 

Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer 
page 3 



AP Photo
Rome's splendor 

Pope John Paul (seated on the main alter) overlooks the general assembly during the closing of the World Synod of Bishops in St. Peter's Basilica Sunday. 

Senate discusses Business Board 
By PETER AMEND Molly Griffin, last year's gen-News Writer era! manager, wanted Irish Gardens to raise their prices so Tiw StudPnt Sm1atP discussnd that the business would not tlw possibility of amending the take a loss, said Kolar. "It be-constitutional authority of the came the Student Senate versus Busirwss Board general man-the Student Managers," he said. ager over thP studm1t run busi-In the end, the Irish Gardens nPssPs. did not raise their prices, and 

MikP Kolar. Business Board the only avenue Griffin had to gPrwral manger, presented the overthrow the student man-issue in light of an instance that ager's decision was to fire the oceurrPcl last Valentine's Day. manager, according to Kolar. Irish Gardens had to buy roses Despite this incident, the Stu-at the inflated market price; dent Body Constitution states: ynt, thny rnfusnd to raise prices "The Business Board general for thP students, according to manager shall be the Chief Fi­businesses. Quantitative deci­sions concerning staffing, in­ventory, promotion, or other matters directly affecting the financial performance of the businesses shall be the respon­sibility of the general manager. The general manager shall see that the businesses operate ac­cording to the policies and guidelines established by Busi­ness Control Council and/or the Student Senate." 
Kolar said he would like the Constitution amended to pre­vent such events from happen-
K~'~-~~~-tr_._______________________n~a~n~ci~·a~l-<~>ffi~I~c~er~~fu~r-t~h•e-,~st~u~d~e~nt,-~in~g~in._th•e•f•u•t~ur~e~
................ 
COLOR ME BEAUTIFUL: 
invites you to pamper yourself and indulge irr the Color Me Beautifule 
11ULTIMATE HOUR11 

• 
Discover Your Season with our exclusive color analysis. 

• 
Find the Secret to Younger Looking Skin with a skin assessment and individualized regimen. 

• 
Learn Your Best Make Up Colors to enh.uKe you: natural beauty during a complete makeL ·er. 

• 
Determine Your Best Wardr·obe Colors ,111d how wear them. 


INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL ONLY $25.00 
Call now for your personal appointment with our certified Color Me Beautiful Consultant. 
NANCY FLAI-IAVEN 
CEfiTiii~U ~CLC~ & r.:f,f.EUP CONSULTANT FIRST BANK BUILDING 205 W. JEFFERSON SUifE 507 SOUl H BEND, IN 46601 
1219) 289-8722 
WE VALIDATE PARKING TICKETS 
*OFFER Expires 12/31/90 




:.cOL(jRME;.s~f!n],~~l :: 
~· ..... oololod.i... ---·--~ ...---------••~~. "'. -·-·~---. --.. ··--'
-~-~ ~ 

Panelists talk about women in business 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
There is a "glass ceiling" in the business world that pre­vents women from gaining ac­cess to upper level positions, according to panelists at a re­cent discussion about women in the business world. 
The panelists discussed a survey in the Wall Street Jour­nal indicating that many women, as well as men, have no desire to break through this glass ceiling. Individuals are ei­ther perfectly content with their positions, or their jobs are not a priority in their lives, according panelist Judith Hennessey. 
"The ceilings are starting to crack," said panelist Thomas Nessinger, "We cannot isolate a group and say we won't count on them." 
Seventy-one percent of the women surveyed believed that a glass ceiling did, in fact, exist, while 73 percent of the men surveyed said it did not. accord­ing to Phyllis Washington Stone, another panelist. 
"For many decades, women have been in the work force playing second fiddle, creating the harmony that makes work and the work force continue in the direction that we want it to go," noted Kathleen Hessert, the moderator of the discussion titled, "Women in Business-Is­sues in a Changing Corporate Culture." 
"But after years of sitting next to that first chair, it no longer is enough ... we're hearing more and more discord ... because harmony is no longer their goal," she said. 
The four panelists included Hennessey, a student in the Notre Daine Executive MBA program and an environmental compliance manager; Lauren Strach, an assistant professor of 
b•u•s-in•e•s•s._a•d•m•i~n~i~st~r·a·t·io·n--a~n~d 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
BOND: FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE 
TONIGHT 7:00 

HITCHCOCK: REAR WINDOW  
TONIGtfT DEAN: REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE WEDNESDAY DE NIRO: THE GODFATHER II WEDNESDAY  9:15 6:30 8:45  
-THE  BEST  IN  FILM­ 

UN lVElb1 i 1 ,_)1' ~~ 01RE DAME OFf ICE Of THE Pl.ZU\.l, __, 1 , 1d:.~LNTS 
ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASHINGTON IIALL THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 ...SHAKESPEARE'S~ As· YOU LIKE·IT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
(Scenes from 20th Century lrtsh fheatrd Devised by Sarn Dale 
8:00pm Tickets: $10, SH Scni('I Citizens, $6 Students TickeLs arc available .11 the dl'Pr or 111 advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket orr" c MasterCarcl!Vtsa order~ e<1ll 239-8 12H 

economies at Saint Mary's Col­
lege; Stone, a pharmaceutical 
sales representative; and 
Nessinger, a partner and din~c­
tor of U. S. recruiting for Arthur 
Anderson & Co. 
The panel opened with a slide 

show about the status of 
women in the work force. 
The discussion touched upon 

the issues of sexual harass­
ment, family life, pay and pro­
motion inequity and power in 
the workplace. Nessjnger citnd 
use of interns and part-time 
workers to replace a woman on 
maternity leave. 
"Women who will be success­ful are the ones who will jump up and go aftnr what they want like men do," said Nessinger. llowever, he said that while men are aware that they can achieve high positions in busi­nesses, women are often not even sure of this. 
Closing comments were deliv­ered by Mary Cunningham Agee, president of Semper En­terprises and executive director of the Nurturing Network. 
Agee (ocused upon the three stages of change necessary to incorporate women into the work force. First, legislative change is required. As a result, behavioral changes in the .f 
r 
workplace ensue. These two steps are external. 
The most difficult change, said Agee, is the internal change in the attitude of both men and women. 
She said that the most impor­tant thing for female newcom­ers in the business place to do is to try to empathize with co­workers, who may have never worked with a woman before. Women should be aware that male discomfort may manifest itself as prejudice. 
"Winning means making sure your (corporate) ladder is leaning up against the right wall," she said. 
The discussion was sponsored by the Advisory Council to the College of Business Ad­ministration, held in conjunc­tion with the "Year of Women." 

&"aAmerican Heart ~ Association 
------------~--­

.-------------------------------------------------­
-

The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1990
page 4 



Cyanide spills into Lynches River 

JEFFERSON, S.C. (AP) ­Millions of gallons of a dilute cyanide solution spilled from a gold refinery and biologists Monday searched along the Lynches River to see if it had harmed livestock or wildlife. 
Elsewhere, oil from a coke plant's discharge pipe spilled into the Monongahela River Monday at Pittsburgh, creating a shimmering, 4-mile-long slick, authorities said. 
Health and wildlife officials in South Carolina reported no fish kills or problems with animals that might drink from the river. 
The spill posed little threat to drinking water supplies but of­ficials warned residents to keep animals from tainted water. 
About 11 million gallons of the solution of sodium cyanide had spilled by midday Monday into the Little Fork Creek after an earthen dam broke Sunday at the Brewer Gold Mining Co. The reservoir held about 13 million to 14 million gallons. 
The liquid contained only 50 parts of sodium cyanide per million, said Richard Carnes. director of the Chesterfield County Emergency Prepared­ness Division. 
Undiluted sodium cyanide would be fatal, but the spill created only a minimal health risk to people and animals be­cause it would be significantly diluted after mixing with river water, said Thorn Berry, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Environmental. 
However, the cyanide wasn't the only threat from the spill. 
"Our concern right now is not so much the cyanide but levels of copper we're seeing in the discharge," Berry said. Some copper compounds also can kill aquatic life, he said. 
The sodium cyanide solution began spilling Sunday after­noon from a holding pond at Brewer, officials said. Brewer uses sodium cyanide to sepa­rate gold from ore. 
The holding pond is about 2,000 feet from the Little Fork Creek and two miles from Lynches. 

Carnes said recent heavy rain in the area might have weak­ened the dam. 
Crews worked to diverted re­maining chemical in the reser­voir into Brewer's discharge treatment system to be neutral­ized with chlorine and hydrogen peroxide, Berry said. 
Brewer officials did not re­turn telephone calls Monday. 
Wildlife and health officials took water samples from the river along a series of stations along the river, said Berry. 
Marine biologists in three boats covered the Lynches, creeks and tributaries in search of dead fish, said John Evans of the-state Department of Wildlife and Marine Resources. Game biologists searched the banks for deer, fox, raccoon and waterfowl, he said. 



Campus Ministry and You 


_·'10 
~g 
-_/ 8 -' 7 

It's a scary thought. First Semester's half over. Where has it gone? To Stanford, some might argue. Or to many spilt beers and good intentions to study and pray and deal with those growth issues and help at the Homeless Center. 
No matter, it's now gone. That's not a time to feel badly, but rathr to make some manageable goals for the remainder of the semester. Here are a few categories: 
1. 
Studies. They come first. If you find yourself just staring out the window or thinking about love's labors lost, study with others, maybe once a week per subject. That's manageable. 

2. 
Alcohol. Policies aside, it still plays a dominant role in the social life of Notre Dame students. Maybe a new sort of drinking game r.1uld be devised for the remainder of the semester: count the drinks. Be acutely aware of how much you drink, and reflect on how you feel about that. Talk it over with someone you trust who won't lecture you, but will be honest. A minor step, but a beginning. 

3. 
Socializing. Think of one new way to have fun, that isn't in any way even potentially destructive. You have six weeks to come up with one! 

4. 
Sex. Find a safe person with whom to reflect on your 


continuously emerging sexuality. Get just a bit more honest about it. Take your time. 
5. 
Prayer. Add three minutes a week to whatever time you currently spend praying: the time spent listening to God's groanings within you. Just listen. Don't analyze. Just listen. Maybe that'll bring you to a total of three minutes a week of prayer. That's ok. 

6. 
Service. Volunteer one more time than you did the first quarter, to help someone who will increase your image of who God is. 

7. 
You. Be it! 



Happy New Quarter! 



0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

Week-end presiders at Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, November 3 5PM Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
Sunday, November 4 10 AM Rev. Regis Duffey, O.F.M. 
11:45 AM Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 

SUNDAY VESPERS CONCERTS at SACRED HEART CHURCH 
November 4 No[I'C Dame Brass Ensemble Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C.• Director 
November 18 Notre Dame OrchesUil 
Mr. Guy Bordo, 
Conductor 

Dccembc:r2 
~:f~is2rt~i~~~%er, 
University Organist 

Dccembcr9 
Advent Lessons and Carols University music ensembles




I .WI 

Concerts immediately following Vespers0MPUS Sunday Evenings, 7:15 pm Sacred Heart Church
MINISTRY 


----------------------------------------------~~-------------------------------..., 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 

Harvard will sponsor conference on AIDS 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP) ­llarvard University said Mon­day it will sponsor the annual international AIDS conference in 1992, four months after threatening to cancel the forum unless the United States re­moved travel restrictions on p1~ople infected with AIDS. 
The conference, the principle forum for presenting scientific information on the fight against the disease, will go ahead in the last week of May 1992, school officials said. 
In .June, the llarvard AIDS Institute threatened to with­draw as sponsor and cancel the conference to protest a U.S. policy making AIDS infection on1~ of several contagious dis­eases for which foreigners could be barred from the coun­try. 
But under a revised immigra-
Tight Security 
tion bill passed by Congress over the weekend, Health Secretary Louis Sullivan would have the authority to remove AIDS and other diseases from the medical list for which a person may be denied entry. 
Sullivan has repeatedly said there is no reason to exclude people with AIDS, because the disease is not passed casually, but only by exchanges of blood or body fluids or by sexual con­tact. 
The measure went to Presi­dent Bush, who has indicated he will sign it as early as this week. 
The conference is expected to attract about 15,000 re­searchers, policy makers, community organizers and AIDS patients, Harvard officials said. 
AP Photo 

A Hindu holy man walks past Indian para-military troops lining a temple entrance in the curfew bound north Indian town of Ayodhya Sunday. A Hindu-Moslem dispute over a shrine in Ayodhya has set off nationwide religious strife. 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and expectations for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 12:30-5 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: Stages of relationships Expectations for the future Steps in making healthy decisions 

COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME: "An excellent opportunity to examine ot:r relationship in a comprehensive way"' 
"A good balance oftime together, lecture and take-home materials" '1t was nice to be able to have time set aside to really sit down and discuss issues!" "I was glad I traveled 4 hrs. to be here with my partner." 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 

Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. 
Applications are due by Wednesday, October 31. 
1M/
0MPU5 

MINISTRY 
The Observer 
page 5 


fSen Kesey stands beside his psychedelic bus as he takes a break in Pleasant Hill Thursday from his 
cross-country trip to deliver the bus to the Smithsonian Institution. The bus, named "Further," was 
bought by Kesey to take a bunch of his friends to the 1964 World's Fair in New York. 
Scientists find new danger in cocaine 
NEW YORK (AP) -People who drink alcohol while using cocaine create a third brain­targeting substance that may help boost their euphoria and may contribute to a puzzling form of overdose death, re­searchers say. 
The research may help ex­plain a preliminary finding that adding alcohol to cocaine use produced 21.5 times the risk of an overdose death for people with s.evere coronary heart dis­ease, scientists said. 
Drinking is frequently com­bined with cocaine, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. 
New studies show that a sub­stance called cocaethylene, formed in the liver from alcohol and cocaine, reaches the brain and mimics some actions of co­caine there. 

Further studies of cocaethy­lene may give leads for medica­tions to treat cocaine addiction by blocking cocaine's effects, said study co-author Deborah Mash, a neuropharmacologist at the University of Miami School of Medicine. 
She and other researchers spoke in telephone interviews about the work. which was pre­sented Monday at the annual meeting of the Society for Neu­roscience in St. Louis. 
Scientists found that co­caethylene affects a brain-cell communication system thought to produce the euphoria that leads to cocaine addiction, she said. 
Prior research suggests that cocaine produces its "high" by intervening in this system, in which brain cells signal each other with a chemical called dopamine. After a dose of dopamine reaches its target cell, it is supposed to be brought back to its original home by molecules called transporters. But cocaine blocks this mechanism by bind­ing to transporters, keeping the signal turned "on" and produc­ing a sense of pleasure, scien­tists say. 

The new work shows that co­caethylene also binds to the transporters, suggesting it may boost cocaine's effect, Mash said. In addition, she said, it appears less able than cocaine to moderate the euphoria through a second brain com­munication system. 
Another possible role of co­caethylene deals with cocaine overdose deaths in people with severe coronary artery disease. 
l.J!coming Events 
TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 6 
WILLIAM VOL TON "The Draft and the Middle East: What are the Chances? Legal, Religious, and Political Questions"-12:00 noon 
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 8 
YEHEZKEL LANDAU 
"Making the Land Holy: Peace in the 
Light of the Torah" -8:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
ROSA PARKS 
U.S. Civil Righta Leader -7:00 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 
NOVEMBER 7-1Q: AME 15th Annual 
Conference on "Values, Rights, and 
Responsibilities In the International 
Community: Moral Education for the 
New Millenium• -C.C.E. 
WEDNESDAY.NOVEMBER14 
KAREN KYLE of St. Mary's College 
Presentation on writing resumes for 
jobs In the area of social change and 
justice -4:00 p.m. -Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL
111111 ~~~;~!:~ 

r---------------------------------------~------~ -~---­
page 6 The Observer 

AP Photo
Zulus march 

lnkatha Freedom Party supporters wave their traditional tribal weapons while marching Saturday through downtown Johannesburg to protest alleged police harassment. 
Computer classes to be offered 
Special to The Observer 
The Office of University Com­puting will be offering com­puter training classes for stu­dents who have never used a computer for word processing. 
The classes begin today and will run through mid-Novem­ber. They will give free instruc­tion to Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
The classes focus on the ba­sics of using a computer for writing a paper. The instruction 
·Bands 
continued from page 1 
rently permitted in University­sponsored publications," said O'Hara. 
includes use of Microsoft Word 
4.0 on the Macintosh computers and Word Perfect 5.1 on the IBM/ Zenith (DOS) computers. 
The classes will be conducted Oct. 30, 31 and Nov. 1, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15. 
If students are interested in attending one of the classes they should register in person at the Information Resource Center (IRC), Room 111, Com­puting Center/ Math Building, or by calling 239-8111. All classes are taught iq Room 248 
"I am happy that the first is­sue addressed this year by the Campus Life Council is one on which we were able to work collaboratively towards a mu­tually acceptable decision," O'Hara said . 
................. 

REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED NOVEMBER 1 
Because of M & M -Midterms/Miami Registratioc/lnformation Available NOTRE DAME: -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry: ·Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library -Dorm Representatives 
SAINT MARY'S: -Office of Justice Education 128/159 Madaleva Hall -Campus Ministry -161 Regina Hall 
................. 

of the Hesburgh Library from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Students must pre-register because classes with less than five students registered the morning of the class will be canceled, said David Mastic, training specialist of the Office of University Computing. 
Information regarding spring semester offerings will be available in the IRC after the Christmas Break. 
~----~---~-~--------~­
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
Surgeon General warns not to mix Halloween with hops 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Surgeon General on Monday is­sued a pre-Halloween warning to the beer industry, saying it should avoid advertising prac­tices that encourage drinking among minors. 
"The beer industry should not capitalize on a season that youngsters look forward to with great anticipation to push their products," Dr. Antonia Novello said. 
"Halloween and hops do not mix." 
Novello said breweries and their advertising agencies were sending the wrong message to minors, that alcohol consump­tion was acceptable for children under the legal drinking age. She said they should put larger warning labels on containers and revise advertising practices. 
"We would like the industry to share in the responsibility," she said. "Children can either consciously or unconsciously be affected by both print and elec­tronic ads" that for the most part never show the harmful ef­fects of alcohol consumption. 
Alcohol abuse was "the num­ber one substance abuse prob­lem among American youth," and indications were that the situation was getting worse. Children were being enticed by advertisements for so-called "soft liquors," including beer, wine and wine coolers, she added. 
The alcohol industry annually conducts its most intensive ad­vertising campaign between Oc­tober and January. The Na­tional Coalition on Television Violence estimated that before the average American child turns 16, he would see 75,000 television scenes where alcohol is consumed or its use encour­aged. 

To promote abetter under­stanain& ~f the psycho-social, religwus, cultural, philosophical, and historical aspects of homosexuality ancfles~!e~an~.gay people.
··.::::::.-·::·.;...·. ·.·:;.;.:..... . 
This Lecture Series is sponsored by the Departments of Amencan Studies, Anthropology, Art, Art History, and Design, Communication and Theatre, English, Government, History, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Theology, 
and 
Center for Social Concerns, Student Government, Gender Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 


ALecture Series on 


-----------------~ 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 7 
S&L 'whistleblowers' might be getting rich 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sav­ings and loan whistleblowers could get rich under legislation passed by Congress that pro­vides rewards for information leading to fraud prosecutions and the recovery of ill-gotten gains. 
The provisions, enacted as part of the crime bill passed over the weekend, offer re­wards of up to $50,000 for in­formation leading to prosecu­tion of S&L crooks. 
Whistleblowers who help Jus­tice Department investigators trace ill-gotten gains would share a percentage of the seized money if the attorney general declared the informa­tion was crucial to its recovery. 
The bounty provisions would only apply to people who are not participants in S&L crimes, said Laurence Urgenson, head of the Justice Department's fraud section. 
But "there's a category of in­dividuals on the periphery, who know about it, never have been knowing participants, but could

So.m~ of hundr~ds of demonstrators raise arms and shout "no" in front of the Japanese Diet (Parliament) 
point the way," Urgenson said. 

bu1ldmg, seen 1n the background Sunday as they march to protest against the government proposal to 
"The potential awards are
deploy Japanese military personnels to the Gulf. 
ample and certainly adequate

---------------------------------~ 

o/ICS
OFFICIAL COMMEMORATIVE 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 
.,./... ._ 
s~--· 
•:~tJ-_­
·, -,_P 
1-.. 
T~
<-.. The official cornrncmorative shirt is decorated on !he 

113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
front with Notre Dame and Miami J'OO(ball helmets, !he dati: of the game, arullht Final Score! The back is a multi-coloredcollageofNolre Dame scenes including the Golden Dome, Jlesburgh Library. Lepuchaun, and two 
2BUCK
game ticluts with a picture ofCoach Lou llotlz. 
On the .vemng of0ctober20/ast yearZheng-de Wang. Notre Dame graduate studenJ from Tianjin, China, was 


TUESDAY 
struck down by a car while walking on Notre Dame Avenue. lJnmsur<d at the time ofthe accidenJ, Zheng-de was severely InJUred and comatose for several rrwnJhs. 
5 p.m. to 12:30 
Now confiMd to a whulchair and undergoing therapy, Zhtng-de is able to recognize oldfriends and to rrwve his 
Any 7" Sandwich
fingers for rudvnenlary communication, but his recovery uJar from complete andfar from certain. 
Profits denved from the sales of this T.shirt will be donated to Zhtng-de' s family for the enormous expenses thLS tragedy has inflected on them. 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 
The navy !-shirts are available In both short and long sleeve versions for $10.00 and SU.OO respectively. AU shirts are size extra-large. 
AL-So fop.. DeLlVt:RY 
Get your shirts at the Notre Dame Bookstore, Hockey Pro-Shop, Alunmi 
CATHOUCS
As.<oelatlon Office, and LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 
VS. 
Or call our toll free number, 1 800/345-5027 
CONVICTS
(Add $5.00 per telephone order for shipping and handling.) 
Jb: 
T -Shirts and Neon Hats 
TAKE NO~--­


Say ''WELC:<JlV:lE B~<=~' '' with 
Flo V'V""~rs Balloor7s 
a:rt.cl 
Gr~~t'ir1g Gareis 
£rc:>m 

Basementof LaFortune Stud. -Cntr_ 
12:30  -5:30  Mon  -Sat  283-4242  
VVe  deliver  daily  to  ND,  SMC,  
and  Holy  Cross  

VI SA/M C accepted. Closed home football Saturdays. 
to provide incentive for some­

one to come forth," Urgenson 
said. "It could be millions of 
dollars in certain kinds of in­
stances, certainly tens of thou­
sands in many," he said. 
A person who helps the gov­

ernment recover S&L money 
would share 20 percent to 30 
percent of the first $1 million, 
10 percent to 20 percent of the 
next $4 million and 5 percent to 
10 percent of the next $5 mil­
lion, according to the bill. 
The bill also creates a so­called S&L kingpin crime that carries a sentence of 1 0 years to life and lines up to $10 mil­lion for individuals and $20 mil­lion for corporations. 
The "continuing financial crimes enterprise" is defined as a fraud continuing over a two­year period by three or more people in which at least one person gains $5 million. 
S&L legislation passed before Congress adjourned for the year may not include extra money to bail out failing thrifts. 
But the crime bill raises from $50 million to $162.5 million the Justice Department's an­nual appropriation for fraud investigations. 
Last week, Congress appro­priated slightly less -$160 million -for the current fiscal year. 
The legislation also creates an eight-member commission to study the cause of the S&L crisis. Six of the members would be appointed by Congress and two by the presi­dent. 
The panel would have the power to subpoena testimony and evidence. The attorney general or the heads of the Office of Thrift Resolution and the Resolution Trust Corp. could veto commission attempts to take evidence or testimony to protect an on-going investiga­tion. 
Five members of the commis­sion could vote to override such vetoes. 
The Bush administration had opposed creation of the com­mission, saying it would inter­fere with investigations. But it agreed to compromise lan­guage. 
The bill also: 

•authorizes 
court-approved wiretapping of S&L officials suspected of wrongdoing 

•expands 
the list of crimes under which ill-gotten gains would be subject to civil forfei­ture. 


SECURITY BEAT THURSDAY, OCT. 24 

2:15p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his bookbag from the book shelves outside of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
8:51 p.m. An employee of Building Services reported that his bike was stolen from just outside of Lafortune Student Center. 
9:45 p.m. An off campus student reported that he had money stolen from his jacket when he left his table at the Hesburgh Library. 
FRIDAY, OCT. 25 

3:15p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at Galvin Hall. 
SATURDAY, OCT. 26 

3:02 p.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported that found two suspicious persons in his unlocked room when he returned to it. 
6:09 p.m. A resident of Flenner Hall reported that he had money stolen from his wallet out of his desk drawer. 
SUNDAY, OCT. 28 

6 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall reported the theft of his bike from just outside the north side of the hall. 
10:25 p.m.. A resident of Alumni Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls . 
~ ~------~--------~------­
Tuesday, October 30, 1990

page 8 The Observer 
. .· -0 .... Oewery .1reas hrntec to ensure ute OfMIIO ~ t990 Oommo s Plz:za. tnc. IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ Call Us! Open for lunch! 271-0300 289-0033 1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. -------­-------­-------... . I UNDAY DOUBLE EARLY WEEK 2 LARGE PIZZAS IFEATURE SPECIAL I 1 TOPPING I I $5.99 I $4.99I I I $10.95 I I Get 2 small original I Get I large original pizza I Get 2 large original II pizzas with tpe t<mpipg of I with.the toppil}g of your 1 pizzas with y9ur favorite II your chotce. Valia I choice. Valtd Mondays 1 topp1ng. 1I Sundays only. I and Tuesdays only. I I I I 1 m. 1 em. I ~~~­I I 'hloelll IW1~11f19 Slores only. Not vallel.w~tn wry other otter Pncn I 'hllel II ~l'bO~trf19 stores only Not valoel WflfllrfY OCitf oltef Pncn I 'hhel ~~ o~rt1C1~t1119 stores only HOI V3loel .wttllll"f Dltllf attet Pnca I l'll.ly V3ry CuSiomcr ~ S.JiH ~· where ~lllllablc OeiNtry ,-eu I rNy va.-, Cust~ ~ S.JIH 111 -"ttl ~ OrMry nas 11\iy v~ry Custo~ ~ ~ 1.11 wherw ~-Dehety 1rUS II llmtec to ensure ute drMnQ Our drrvet'S urry Ins thin S2000 ~rntec :o en""' S.J'Ie d~ Our Onwft1 t.1lfY lesS trl¥l S2QOO I ~motec to ensure ute di'MOQ Out dnvtfl urry less INn 120.00. Our dnvetl ve 1101 oenumt tor •~• cltMnH Our or--n ~~not~~ tor we~ Our drrvet1 lfl not ~~llltel tor I.Jit OciNentS  


---·· --·-'· ~ --... -------····••-·.. --• .-.-·--·-•• __._......__._ ,,_,_,._ ..... .. _.....~.... ..,::.,.-JJ.t>:.•,~.--· • _._._,..• ._.._ .. • .a 4A-·-•• _. & #,. -·-·~.__
.....--.---: L ~ ··--·----·-0 

Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 9 
,..: r 
u,

Soviets make friendship pact " \·
t 

AMBOUILLET, France (API -peaee, a breach of peace or making a non-aggression w !'residents Mikhail Gorbachev provoke international tension, clause unnecessary. ~ of the Soviet Union and the governments of France and The treaty was the first be­r ' 
\ 

Francois Mitterrand of France the Soviet Union will enter into tween the countries since a sign1~d a friendship pact Mon­contact without delay to coor­friendship pact in 1944, and f 

day providing for immediate wnsultations if either country feels thnmtmwd by confliet. 

The two llladnrs sigrwd the Treaty of Frimulship and Coop­eration after an overnight visit to Paris by thn Soviet leader. 
"In thn ease of situations whieh, in the view of one of the parties, create a threat to dinate all aspects of such situa­tions," the treaty said. 
The treaty fell short of a non­aggression pact, similar to the treaty Moscow concluded re­cently with Germany. French officials say France will adhere to its commitments to NATO and the European Community, 
Happy 21st Birthday, Bridget Walsh 
(10/28) 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, 
and Jimmy 

France's first bilateral treaty in 
~ 

27 years. It was signed at the chateau of Rambouillet, 33 miles southwest of Paris. 
"We have done a great deal of work in a short time," Gor­bachev said at a joint news con­ference with Mitterrand. "This reflects the new level of coop­eration and understanding be­tween the leadership of our two countries which enables us to obtain results." 
The broad agreement calls for regular political consulta­tions. It also provides for coop­eration in energy, non-military nuclear science, transportation, high-definition television and telecommunications. 
France and the Soviet Union pledge to "reinforce European solidarity" and seek the cre­ation of a European confedera­tion. 
The treaty promised French assistance as the Soviet Union shifts to a market economy, and French help in arranging accords between Moscow and the 12-nation European Com­munity. 
AP Photo

Freedom of religion 
The Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia Alexi II (center with staff) conduct a solemn service in Sofia Cathedral, Kiev as a special bishop council decided to give independence to the Ukranian Orthodox Church. 
Poll: trust in USSR leaders plummets 
MOSCOW (API -Less than one in 10 Soviet respondents in a new poll expressed full sup­port for their leaders and half said they had no confidence at all. 
The poll by the independent All-Union Center for Public Opinion indicated that support for President Mikhail Gor­bachev and his government, headed by Prime Minister Niko­lai Ryzhkov, has hit the lowest point since Gorbachev took power in 1985. 
The poll, released by the in­dependent news service Inter­fax, found only 6 percent of re­spondents gave full support when asked, "!low much do you trust the national leadership now?" 
Thirty-two percent expressed qualified support and 50 per­cent had no confidenee at all. The rest had no opinion, Inter­fax reported. 
The results were based on answers by 1,356 people in It regions across the country, ln­terfax said. However, it gave no margin of error and didn't say when the survey was done. There was no answer to phone queries at the center late Mon­day. 
A poll conducted last summer by the liberal weekly Ogonyok put support for Gorbachev's Communist Party at 30 percent, below the Red Army, the Rus­sian Orthodox Church and the national Supreme Soviet legis­lature. 
The latest poll was released two weeks after Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peaee Prize for helping end the Cold War. In contrast to his worldwide popularity, Gorbachev's domes­tic standing has been sliding for years, even more severely the last year as shortages have worsened and nearly all the 15 republics have declared some form of sovereignty. 
The poll also asked whether the emergency powers given to Gorbachev by the Supreme So­viet last month will "help stabi­lize the country's economy." 

The Observer 
page 10 

Man praises 'Fountain of Youth' 
WAUKEGAN, Ill. (AP) ­Robert Bensing doesn't feel cheated by his brief flirtation with an age-reversing hormone that some fancy may be the doorway to a futuristic Fountain of Youth. 
In fact, the 72-year-old re­tired chemist has found his joints no longer ache constantly with arthritis and his skin is firmer, giving him the appearance and vitality of a man much his junior. 
"I feel a little more ener­getic," said Bensing, who rel­ishes being called "son" by a friend about his age and now can spend more time garden­ing. 
He stopped taking the hor­mone more than 1 1/2 years ago, and doctors predicted the age-reversing symptoms of his therapy would fade within a few months. 
"Theoretically, I lost all that, but I don't feel that I did," Bensing said recently his rural Waukegan home. "Since the benefits didn't go away, I don't feel cheated. It was worth it. If it contributes to the advance­ment of medical knowledge, we don't feel cheated." 
For a year, Bensing injected himself three times weekly with the human growth hormone. Within six months of the first treatment, he could unscrew bottle caps with ease, mow the law without tiring easily and sit through lengthy car trips -all of which would have been difficult months earlier. 
Tests revealed the hormone treatments helped shrink body fat, restore lean body mass lost through aging and increase the thickness of Bensing's skin. 
"I noticed right off he was doing things much faster," said Bensing's Wife, Alice, 57. "He was more willing to go places and do things than before." 
The growth hormone taken by Bensing and 19 other older male volunteers is a synthetic version of one produced natu­rally in humans. As one ages, the natural production of the hormone fades and eventually stops, researchers have learned. 
Daniel Rudman, an endocri­nologist at the Medical College of Wisconsin in suburban Mil­waukee and director of the experiment, said researchers have determined the hormone injections reversed aging in the body composition of elderly men by as much as 20 years. 
Rudman and his fellow re­searchers reported this sum­mer in the New England Jour­nal of Medicine that the hor­mone increased lean body mass in patients by 9 percent, decreased fat tissue by 14 percent and thickened skin by 7 percent. 
It does not, however, affect failing eyesight, hearing loss or degeneration of brain cells. The improvements strictly involved the patient's body mass. 
Rudman, 62, was among a group of physicians in the 1960s who used human growth hormone to treat abnormally short children. He decided to experiment with the hormone on the elderly after watching his parents grow old and frail in a nursing home. 

The hormone, onc.e only available by extraction from human corpses, now is pro­duced through genetic engineering. But regular treatment costs $14,000 a year for adults. 
Experts warn it is too soon to determine the severity of side-effects or whether the hormone could be produced cheaper and more readily. 
Most of the men in the experiment have declined to talk publicly since the study was published, some at "the advice of the Medical College of Wisconsin. 
Bensing, one of the first vol­unteers for the study, said the hormone lessened the crippling effects of arthritis. prompted a quicker recovery from a cataract operation and appeared to make a crushed spinal disk a bit sturdier. 
"There's a guy my age start­ing to call me 'son,' " Bensing said. "They said, 'You look great.'" 
When he began treatment, Bensing was told the possible side effects included an in­crease in blood pressure or blood sugar. But his only com­plaint was a numbness in his wrists, which he attributed to pressure from skin and muscle growth. It stopped once the therapy ceased, he said. 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 

AP Photo
Wedding Spray 

Avid skiers Phil and Amelia White of Euless, Texas, seal their marriage with a kiss during a water-skiing ceremony Saturday on Marine Lake in Fort Worth, 


AP Photo
Daybreak exercise 

President George Bush sticks his foot our the water Sunday morning in Honolulu, Hawaii as he goes for an swim off Waikiki Beach. Later, he headed to play a round of golf at Hickam Air Force Base. 

RESPECT HIS tp-'­
HOLY NAME 
·if\· Stop Cu1sing /A 
r;-...:~~:..c;-··~crm==ma-erm:ora• na:~,.. 
I ~~~~!f!!4N ~ 
"-and ~ ~ ' FITNESS
··'. BAKERS BIKE SHOP, INC. 1···,'.,·· 
• SALES • SERVICE • CLOTHING I
1 
EXERCISERS • ACCESSORIES
-., 
BIKES STORED & BOXED. STUDENT DISCOUNT ..-...·.·. . ON KRJPTONITE LOCKS. .
1.· 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY ~~ 
.. 135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH • CIC ~. ~­
. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 3835 UNCOLNWAY EAST • (219)277-8866 MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
1
!~:·-=:~::·>ar.mc<~~.:~:~::::<e<;~~:7. ·' 
WE'REIN ARUSH 

TOBETIERTHEWORLD 
duates who choose to
atients and the new gra 9 b d tertiary care
1

We'~ti~~ ~:r~.s~tt~~:~~r~;~~:i~n-~.0~~~~\~h~~:le~~r1~r P~~~e:s~ro~i1°:n~o~ra~e:e~~ ~~~1f . 
r~~ility in Chicago, the supportst~Sy~~t~individ~al preceptor andhthe sta~:~t~uw!ed io advance your educatiOn. our progr!s~i~; ~f;;~~~~~ac~~ng 'institution. you ~i~0a~~~~~~ ~~~~~hoice. 
pract1ce. n will1ind everythiOg you nee
As anew graduate, you 

Consider these terrific benefits: titive salaries and differentials 
t. • Compe nt system
l n reimbursemenVwaiver op 1ons Clinical ladder advanceme 
• r~~i~dualized preceptorship orient~ion Premier researchdenviro~:a;~: administrative model 
Responsive. collaborative teamwor • Renowned share gove . Strong patienVtamiiY approach . ·t which include Medicai/ER~ Surgic~I/O~ealth 
This supportive framework exist~/~eha;b~l~~t~~~ ~~e~~~~i~f~S:.t'ou can better the world With abe er Maternal/Child, Geronto1 ogica . care institutiOn. dwould enjoy meeting With you to 
. , us on Wednesday, October 31,1990, anntact: Bonnie Macius,HN, Nurse we Will be on St. Mary itc~:S~. 11 you are unable to attend, Pj~~~~g~_ 3456 (collect in IIIIOOiS) or • • discuss the opport~~~~i~i1-4626 (to\Hree out~ide of 11\IOOIS) or • St l ke's RecrUiter, a\\ush· Presbyterian-St. Lukes (i} Rush-Presbytenan-. • u • Medr~~ ~e~fe~. 729 s. Paulina St., Chicago, IL Medical Center 60612. Equal Opportumty Employer. 
~--------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 11 

Cuba still bitter about 
28-year-old 
MEXICO CITY lAP) -The Cuban government Monday released a document on the 1962 missile crisis and reiterated its bitterness over the Soviet decision 28 years ago to remove the missiles without consulting with Cuba. 
The government news ag1H1cy Prensa Latina, in a dispat<:h monitored in Mexico City, ran a description of the events it said was culled from a 200-page secret document that Fidel Castro's government just released. 
"Twenty-eight years after the October Crisis that pushed the world to the brink of nuclear war, the Cubans maintain their daims from the era and reproach Nikita Khrushclwv for having excluded them from secret conversations," the article bngins. 
There appeared to be little new in tlw document. and its n~lease semned to be in the nature of nursing an old grudge at a time when relations between the Soviet Union and Cuba have hit a post-revolutionary low. 
Although tlw Soviet Union is still providing aid to Cuba, the Soviet prnss recently has pub­lishml a series of revealing, unflattering rnports, including a rarP portrait of Castro's per­sonal life that said he has 32 houses, a security contingent of 9,700 and live children by his "present wife." 
Cuba has dedicated a new monument on the launch site for the rocket that shot down an American spy plane during the crisis. Prensa Latina re­ported in a separate dispatch Monday. 
The monument contains a rock wall surrounded by palm trees, symbolizing the decision of Cubans to defend their territory, it said. 
withdrawal 
In the summer of 1962, the Soviet Union began installing 42 medium-range nuclear missiles in Cuba. U.S. spy planes detected the missiles, and the United States began a naval blockade of Cuba. Tensions peaked when Cuba shot down a U-2 spy plane on Oct. 27; Khrushchev submitted to President Kennedy's demand the missiles be withdrawn. 
In newly released excerpts of his memoirs, Khrushchev called Castro a "hothead" who wanted the Soviet Union to at­tack the United States during the crisis. Castro denied that story. 
The document released Monday said the Soviet Union had sent a delegation to Havana in May 1962 to discuss installing the weapons as a means of discouraging the United States from 
Cuba accepted the plan in June after a meeting of the political leadership, including Castro, his brother Raul Cas­tro. Ernesto "Che" Guevara. Osvaldo Dorticos, Bias Roca and Emilio Aaragones, it said. 
The weapons, medium­range H-12 missiles, began arriving after Haul Castro visited Moscow in July and signed a secret agreement, according to the report. 
About 43,000 Soviet soldiers, officers and specialists were sent to Cuba in connection with the deployment, it said. 
The Soviet general in charge and his second-in-command had orders to use the missiles "only in case of aggression by the United States and only un­der orders from Moscow," the report said. 

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
American Psychoanalytic Association accredited training; University of Chicago medical faculty; treating people with personal, relationship, or career problems. Increased self-knowledge reveals new opportunities. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment ca11243-5656. 
-. 


Tourist trap? 
AP Photo 

Two Israeli border policemen stand outside the main tourist shopping center in Bethlehem Sunday. Nearly all shops in the Occupied Territories are closed most of the time, and due to the recent unrest the number of tourists to Israel is in a sharp decline. 
Hindu holy men clash with police 
AYODIIYA, India lAP) ­Hindu holy men clashed with police Monday and set a bus on lire in this curfew-bound city, the eye of a violent religious dispute between the country's Hindus and Moslems. 
It was the first report of vio­lence in Ayodhya in connection with the plan of fundamentalist Ilindus to start building a tem­ple over a 16th-century mosque on Tuesday. 
The dispute has killed at least 104 people nationwide in the past week and brought Prime Minister V.P. Singh's govern­ment to the brink of collapse. 
One person was killed Mon­day in Lucknow, 75 miles west of Ayodhya, when Hindu crowds surged through a Moslem neighborhood throwing bricks, according to police offi­cials who spoke on condition on anonymity. 
One person committed suicide by swallowing poison Sunday night in Hoshiarpur in Punjab state to protest government ef­forts to halt the temple project, United News of India said. 
In Ayodhya, a town of about 40,000 people, a group of about 80 Hindu holy men threw stones at police and set a bus on fi ,, when authorities at­tempted to arrest a local Hindu priest, a police inspector said. 
The inspector, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it was an isolated incident and did not cause any lasting ten­sion. 
But within an hour of the skirmish, authorities banned entry into Ayodhya and canceled passes issued to re­porters. An indefinite curfew is in force in the town, which has remained peaceful despite the raging controversy over the re­ligious site. 
At least 80,000 Hindus who were planning to participate in the construction program have been arrested and roadblocks set up on all routes leading to Ayodhya. 
Hindu fundamentalists, how­ever, claimed they had infil­trated thousands of supporters into areas near Ayodhya and would start the temple con­struction program as sched­uled. 
In a hand-written commu­nique, the World Hindu Council vowed to start building the temple despite the presence of 20,000 police and paramilitary troops in the town. 
Residents of Ayodhya said 5,000 Hindu activists were hid­ing in fields and villages around 


is now on salcz in thcz 
Student Activities Office. 
Priccz $9.00 

IPJR1E=IPJR(Q)IFTE§§ll(())NAIL §(())Cll1Eli1f 1MI1E1MI1B51Eill.§~ 
THOSE OF YOU WHO WANT TO SIGN UP FOR ADULT CPR OR BASIC LIFE SUPPORT CLASSES FOR WEDNESDAY, OCT. 31 7-10 PM OR SUNDAY, NOV. 4 7-10 PM, PLEASE CAll TOM RYDER AT 283 -1128. 
the town and planned to con­verge on the disputed holy site Tuesday morning to start con­structing the temple. 
In New Delhi, the World Hindu Council claimed 10,000 supporters had slipped through police cordons and roadblocks around Ayodhya. 
Police in Ayodhya and the neighboring town of Faizabad said the claims were inflated. They said a maximum of 1,000 to 2,000 temple activists might have reachnd the arna. "We are in a position to control them," said a police official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
A two-paragraph statement claiming to come from a top leader of the World Hindu Council was covertly distributed to reporters in Faizabad on Tuesday afternoon. It urged residents to defy a round-the­clock curfew and comn out of their houses Tuesday morning. 
"This curfew is murder of democracy. I appeal to all citi­zens of Faizabad and Ayodhya to come out in large numbers tomorrow (Tuesday) and march with me to Ayodhya," said the statement which carried the name of Ashok Singhal, general secretary of the World Hindu Council. 
Correction 
In the article titled "Shirt brings fame, fortune for se­nior" in The Observer of Fri­day, Oct. 19 a quote was incor­rectly attributed to Dennis Moore, director of Public Hela­tions and Information. The quote "Who's to say what is bad taste? We don't believe that the shirts are offensive," was said by Alan Sorce. 
In a lecture story in the Thursday, Oct. 18 Observer, Mark Rose was incorrectly listed as a member of the Florida Atlantic University's Athletic Department. lie is a member of that institution's history department. 
Heart Attack. Fight it with a Memorial gift to the American Heart Association. 
American Heart 0 
Association 


Viewpoint 
page 12 Tuesday, October 30, 1990 

LETTERS 

Students' complaints about costs lack rational analysis 
Dear Editor: come [to ND] and the tickets .... " cheap excuse for criticism. We cilities, for starters. Most stu­seriously than those that ap­
Darners are basing nearly all I think the only issue debated in generally get what we pay for; dent concerns are valid, but we pear to whine. of their complaints on the cost The Observer in which this we have an excellent faculty, a should base them on sound Rex J. Rempel of tuition, fully believing that it doesn't arise is the ordination beautiful campus, a huge li­principles, for reasonable ac­St. Edward's Hall entitles them to a perfect world of women. and excellent athletic fa-counts are taken much more Oct. 17, 1990 served on a silver platter. Yes, it is a lot of money which de­We do pay a lot of money, and mands accountability and ser­the University does have its vice, but let's grow up and stop faults. Some of that fault lies complaining, "I paid $15,000 with the administration, and and so I deserve this." That's some lies with the student body. not a valid argument, and we Most issues, however, are generally get what we pay for. multi-dimensional and should 
be approached rationally, not 
In the last two months alone childishly. Sensitivit¥ to individ­I've seen this argument used to ual concerns, funding, complain about parking, ticket availability, feasibility, long­distribution, security, the in­term effects, fairness and intent firmary, maid service and the must always be considered dining halls. On Oct. 16, a along with how much we are student wrote "the students paying. here at ND pay enough tuition Rarely in my contact with to attend this fine institution. Is comparable institutions have I it crazy to expect.. .. " On Oct. seen so many complaints based 17, another wrote, "What is on costs. Such an attitude does Dear Editor: said they were too busy with find it hard to believe this is'unethical' is that we, as stu­not lead to rational analysis of Recently, I was treated to a school work to go. Since we anyone's fault but the students'. 

dents, pay $15,000 a year to the issues, but is merely a 

brilliant performance on the are, first and foremost, stu­Campus events are highlightedSnowball fighters should avoid glass Saint Mary's campus, the Songs dents, I understand the diffi­in The Observer in calendar 
of Broadway Company's culty of ignoring school work to listings and feature articles. 
Dear Editor: Within the coming weeks, the "Camelot." I thoroughly en­see a production. Still, we can't Many events are part of on­
While it is still October and student body will be warned joyed the performance and in­close ourselves into our little going programs and so are we are enjoying the sights of about the snowball fight in tend to see many more college world and ignore continually being promoted. fall-leaves falling off the trees, terms of matching funds. I am throughout the year. Yet my everything else. We should Also, flyers are repeatedly squirrels gathering acorns and sure if windows are broken this mind was distracted by the re­take advantage of what the posted on walls. Aside from alumni walking around in plaid, year, Student Affairs will follow alization of how few students campus offers us. The chances personally contacting each stu­I would like to discuss winter. the example set by Father attended the show. of finding performances of this dent, there is little else to be Not the whole season, of Tyson last year and suspend In talking to some of my fel­quality, at such a low price and done by promoters to inform course, since such discussions matching funds. However, it is low students, I heard the com­convenient location, are slim. students of the events. would inevitably lead to more important that the mon complaint that tickets are I'm searching for answers as What will happen if student complaints about sub-zero possible injury to others be just too expensive. Tickets for to why there is such low stu­attendance to events on campus January temperatures. considered before throwing "Camelot" were free for Saint dent attendance at these pro­continues to drop? I would 
No, I would like to discuss the snow at a window. It is a "pane Mary's students. They com­ductions. Is it a lack of interest hate to see Saint Mary's discon­opening event of winter, which in the glass" to have a window plained that tickets for in the performances? Saint tinue the Performing Arts occurs shortly after the first shatter in one's face. "Dracula" were a whopping Mary's tries to offer a wide va­Series. It is something I enjoy snowfall: the interquad North­I don't know if people will $14. Outside the campus com­riety of cultural events. The and appreciate, and I know South snowball fight. Last year, refrain from attacking dorm munity, the price for such an Performing Arts Series presents many other students would also during the fight, I was standing windows this year. Whatever event like "Dracula" would ex­music concerts from classical to if they just took the small by a third-floor window when it the case, I suggest that ceed the Saint Mary's price modern, dance presentations of amount of time and energy was broken. I had to go to the everyone avoid windows or tremendously. I would bet that all sorts, and many theatrical needed to find out about the hospital to get my right ear learn how to duck. students pay a lot more than events each year. events and attend them. stitched, and I received minor Eric Brown $14 socializing in less than the I also heard the complaint Erin F. Kelly cuts on my face as well. The Cavanaugh Hall time spent at any performance. that students didn't even know LeMans Hall window was a complete loss. Oct. 11, 1990 In addition, many students the event was taking place. I Oct. 12. 1990 
DOONESBURY 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ignoring cultural events is inexcusable 
50RRY YOU 

PRJNOPL£? HE&, H/3& l
MIS513D 7H/3 

NO Off&N5e, MRS. ~ 
/3/G V!Git-,M/<S. 

!3UT YOU'V& 8m-J OUT
D! RJI)(5 SURb 

OF tf/ASHIN67VN W /..a\t3i
11/ANT 'IOU 8/JO( 
INOFFIC&-' 

'I neither want nor am holier­than-thou. I've seen about everything, heard just about everything, and done part of it.' 
Senator Jesse Helms 
--Ih.--e _Q_-.bse..L-=Y=-'-'<~~o·r---·­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••.•••...Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ........•...... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ...•.••••..• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ...........•. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ........•.•••........ Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•.... Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as poss;ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

II k?LLOW MI;. ...T~I> WAY..... I TI-\!NK ...... ,, 
Accent 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 page 13 
INDIANA'S BELIEVE IT OR NOT 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
At Ion~ last... In the dubious tradition of Guinness' World Records, Hipley's "Believe It or Not," and even David Letterman's "Museum of the Hard to Believe," I· red D. Cavinder has published "Indiana's Believe It or Not," the latest in a genre that celebrates, among other oddities, really nice ears of corn. Finally, the appropriate Christmas gift for that Hoosier who seems to have everything. With its snappy red and yellow cover, this is definitely a coffee­table book, to be treasured and passed on for generations. 
I low many times have you been reading The National Enquirer and asked yourself, "Why is it that there are so many wondrous and sexually morbid storins being reported, sueh as hippos swallowin* eireus dwarfs, yet they all take place in obscure middle Eastern countries? Don't we have rejects of society and freaks of nature right here in Indiana? Well, no, but we have had some pretty wacky weather. Read on. 

John Hanson Craig of Danville was six feet, five inches tall and reached a top weight of 907 pounds. 
"Indiana's Believe It or Not" abounds with whimsical animal stories. In 1955, Indiana was abuzz with the accomplish­ments of Lady Wonder, a psy­chic horse in south-central Indiana. By counting and spelling out words, she pre­diclPd that Franklin D. lloosevelt would hH thn next prnsi<llmt of the Unit1~d States ­even befon~ he was nomi­nated(eollective gasp of disbe­lil~n. Fourtnen times in seven­teen years she predieted the winner of the World Series, and she was particularly gifted at picking the winners of horse races, as might be expected. 
Everyone will be pleased to note that Indiana does indeed boast of its own tremendously fat person. Actually, there have been several of significance, not the least of which was Baby Ruth of Kempton, who peaked at 815 pounds, yet had "no am­bition to follow the career of her mother, a circus fat lady." Unfortunately, her secretarial career did not work out, and she ended up at Ringling Brothers. Baby Ruth's life had its ups and downs: in the circus she met her future husband, a balloon salesman who took one look at her and dubbed her "my woman." Later, she had surgi­cal complications when her hospital bed eollapsed. 
'Everyone will be pleased to note that Indiana does indeed boast of its own tremendously fat person.' 
Then there is the strange and near-unbelievable story of Leonard B. Clore, who was so gifted at raising corn that he was banned from any further 

Unusual attractions abound in Indiana 
While everyone else is roadtripping to Tennessee, you might want to take advantage of all the photo opportunities that exist right here in Indiana. Here are just a few of the attractions you'll want to capitalize on in your tour of the glorious Midwest. 
(Editor's note: this itinerary may not be geographically feasible, as at the time of publkation, a map of Indiana was not handy.) 
Sapling buffs will want to start off their tour in Greensburg, which is in­ternationally known for the trees that grow on the roof of its courthouse. We are not making this up. Apparently it's one of those "you had to. be tlwre" things. The trees have inspirnd a name for an athletic tnam, as well as a poem: "On tlw roof of our tow11r, two trees I SePm to thrive in the dust ladBn brBeze, I But when the storm blows, I The Lord only knows, I How they cling with such nonchalant ease." 
From there you might want to get around to Cannelton, to 11xperience firsthand Halph Daum's pet bass. lie has apparently trained a fish to eat food out of his hands. In his own words, "You have to work with fish a little more than you would another creature, but they can be trained and they can become your friends." You'll return home with the memory of a new friend and maybe even a nice postcard. 
Next stop is Shelbyville, site of the largest corn shock ever constructed. An estimated 10,000 corn stalks were used to create the majestic shock, which "soared seventy feet tall" and was the centerpiece for the Shelby County Corn Festival in 1956. No, of course it's not still there, but Shelbyvillians still reminisce about the day Ronald Reagan visited and was photographed in front of the shock. I bet the picture's still there. 
A must-see is the "largest tree in the nation east of the Yosemite Valley," or at least a remnant of it, in Kokomo. And you thought the trees in Greensburg were good. More than 100 feet tall and with a stump 51 feet in circumference, it was once used to house a telephone booth. 
By this time, you might have decided to go down to Tennessee after all. Have a good time at the game. 

competition in the Nation Corn Association in 1909. One of his ears of Indiana corn, described only as "unusual," sold for $250 at an auction -and was bought by Clore himself, who decided it was too valuable to let go. 
Indiana has had its share of rough weather, as anyone who has had to hike to a class in Loftus, in a blizzard, in February, without earmuffs, can attest to. Cavinder, in an article dramatically entitled "The Year Without a Summer," writes of the tremendous cold of 1816, when it snowed in August. Hard to believe! 
One of the strengths of Cavinder's book is his unique way of turning a phrase. He gives many of his subjects illus­trious titles such as "the mean­est man in the world," and "the most useful man in Indiana" (which might very well lead one to wonder who the most useful man in the world is, and what he is doing now), etc. This book is not, however, for the faint­hearted, It'S the author is not excessively tactful, nor discrim­inating in his material. In an article called, "Ring Around the Commode," Cavinder concludes by saying, "After twenty-seven years of flushing the ring was back on Kemp's finger." Kind of makes you want to buy the 

book, doesn't it? 
Test Your Hoosier Knowledge 
1. 
The first counterfeiting of greenbacks occurred in what state? 

2. 
Lincoln's last caller on the day he was shot was from what state? 

3. 
What state can boast of producing celebrated evangelist Billy Sunday and weird musician Michael Jackson? 

4. 
What state was not one of the thirteen original states? 

5. 
In what state was the first vasectomy performed, ironically, for the purpose of halting sexual desires? 

6. 
In what state was the longest prison sentence ever served? 

7. 
What state houses the Hammes Bookstore? 

8. 
The term "hoosier" is a complementary reference to a person from what state? 

9. 
Tim Roemer is running for office in what state? 

10. 
In what state can the Empire State Building be found? 



-page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
Moeller says Michigan must improve defense 
play in university life. The No player in Division I football Media sports media, in a sense, will tell a reporter that he plans serves as a thinly-veiled to back down from a fight. I continued from page 24 promotional service for these don't care where he goes to institutions. school. So when that player
year earlier in the Orange 

In the past year, however, declares his intention to defend
Bowl, but hatred was not a part 

Notre Dame has learned to himself and his teammates in
of his game plan to stop the 

look upon no news as good the event of a fight , the
Hurricanes. 

news. resulting story makes front-page 
news. This constitutes "talk", as"I remember reading about a PractictJs were closed the Holtz calls it, or "rhetoric", as

lot of bad blood between the 

week of the Miami game so Smizik calls it. 
two schools in 1985," Holtz said that players could concentrate Whatever you call it, the media 

at his press conference the 

on stopping the Hurricanes on generates it. 
week before this year's Miami 

the field and not on True, security guards stoodgame, "and that talk fuels badmouthing them in the outside the players' locker
emotion for the next year they papers. Notre Dame students rooms on Oct. 20. Fortunately,play." 

also had to take midterm they proved unnecessary since
Yes, coaches do read the 

examinations during the week. both teams handled themselves
papers. So do many of the 

Nonetheless, players were with class both on and off the
players. The same might even stopped on the way to the playing field. 

be said for a few university 

locker room after practice and Hats off to Lou Holtz, Dennispresidents around the country. 
asked how they would respond Erickson and their players. AsAll are aware of the highly­once a fight broke out against for Smizik, well, nobody askedvisible role collegiate athletics Miami. Not if, but when. him anyway. 
Tyson's latest bout in the courtroom 
NEW YORK (AP) -Mike which his attorney called a fused his advances at Bentley'sTyson's latest bout began "stickup." The boxer is ex­Disco early Dec. 10, 1988. Monday in a courtroom where pected to testify in his defense. jurors considered claims that 
The lawsuit, which went to Her attorney, Alan Clark, said 
the former heavyweight cham­trial in U.S. District Court, was she decided to sue the boxer to pion assaulted a woman at a filed by Sandra Miller, a 26-"punish him and deter him ... dance club. year-old Brooklyn woman, who and to tell him this will not 
Tyson disputes all allegations claims Tyson "forcibly fondled" happen to another woman in the $4.5 million civil lawsuit, and cursed at her after she re-again." 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­When the topic is defense, Michigan coach Gary Moeller believes the Wolverines have room for improvement. 
"I said that going into the season and a lot of people just kind of snickered, but the best defensive team is going to win the league. We're not to that point yet," Moeller said Monday. 
Despite flashes of their ex­pected form in last week's 45-19 thrashing of Indiana, Moeller knows the defense will need another strong ef­fort Saturday against Purdue and quarterback Eric Hunter. 
"Eric Hunter is one of ... the best athletes in the con­ference," Moeller said. "You saw it last year (in Michigan's 42-27 win over the Boilermakers). He goes against all principles of football as what you should do as a quarterback and he's successful at it. With 
him dodging around in their 
run-and-shoot offense, it's a 
different deal." 

Michigan (4-3, 2-2 Big 
Ten) registered seven quar­
terback sacks for minus-31 
yards against the Hoosiers, 
but will have a tougher time 
duplicating the feat with the 
agile Hunter, who leads the 
Big Ten in total offense. 
"The key is to contain him as best as possible and still have an aggressive pass rush," Moeller s-aid. "(Linebacker) Erick Anderson played his best game of the year last week and he has to keep improv­
-ing. The secondary has to keep improving and Mike Evans and a couple of those outside linebackers have to got play well." 
The Wolverines are in an unfamiliar position with four weeks left in their Big Ten schedule -out of the league title and Rose Bowl pictures. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Typing 
Pickup & Delivery 
277-7406 
JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233-2342 
TUTOR WITH PH D &1 0 YEARS UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST STUDENTS IN ECON ,STAT, MATH COURSES 2723153 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277· 5134 Cathy. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses 
in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30p.m. If found, please call Rene 277­9468. Reward offered. 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!!!If!!!!!!LOST: BROWN COACH I.D. HOLDER AND KEY CHAIN HOOKED TOGETHER. LOST NEAR KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUILDING. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP ME FIND IT. THEY ARE VERY IMPORTANT AND VITAL TO MY LIFE FUNCTIONING. ALL OF MY J.D.'S AND KEYS ARE ON fT. I CAN'T GO HOME WITHOUT IT. IF YOU HAVE SEEN IT PLEASE CALL ME OR RETURN IT--ANY PART OF IT! $REWARO$$REWARD$REWAR D$ TO THE WONDERFUL PERSON WHO FINDS IT AND RETURNS IT TO ME. 
CALL MELISSA AT X2580 X2580 X2580 X2580 WHEN YOU FIND IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
I lost my wallet October 17. If you find it, please call Joe at 2480 or 2456. Reward offered. Thank you 
Lost: Gold chain and cross shaped medal. Please call Brian x3001. 
FOUND: "precious" stone outside SCH Call Ken 239·5611 to identify. 
FOUND: LADY'S BROWN TORTOISE SHELL GLASSES LEFT ON TUESDAY IN COUNTRY HARVESTER IN LAFORTUNE. 
..REWARo•• I lost my RED PLAID 
UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 in Hesburgh library. VERY high sentimental value (plus, 
it is unique and I would definitely recognize it!) Please call 2983 with info NQA. I really need my umbrella! 
••REWARo•• 
LOST: 14k-gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football Field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please call Cara x3847 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 
mo. Summer, Yr., round, All 
Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
TO THAT 'CAT WITH THE NO BUDWEISER SHIRTS: the Grace crew that cleared your supply needs one more. Please 
call 1605, ask for 
Dutch. thanks. 
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY! ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME. CALL FOR INFORMATION. 504-641-8003 EXT. 6840 
SPRING BREAK/CHRISTMAS 
BREAK TOURS 
INDIVIDUALS OR STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NEEDED TO PROMOTE OUR SKI/SUN TOURS. EARN MONEY & FREE TRIPS TO CANCUN, MONTREAL, DAYTONA, VERMONT. CALL HI-LIFE 1-800­263-5604. 
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., 
4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 
Make Money Watching T.V.! EXCITING new method. Amazing 24 hour recorded message reveals details. Call512·585·4808 Ext. 101. 
ATTENTION: Excellent income for home assembly work. 504-646· 1700 DEPT. P5868 

TRAVEL FREE! CAMPUS REPS WANTED. QUALITY VACATIONS TO EXOTIC DESTINATIONS. AFFORDABLE SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO JAMAICA/CANCUN! FREE TRAVEL AND $$. 1-800-426­7710. 
WANTED: ENTREPRENEURS, PEOPLE WHO WANT TO WORK THEIR OWN HOURS, MAKE GOOD MONEY, AND HAVE SOME FUN SELLING 20 CENT PER MINUTE PHONE CARDS ON CAMPUS WITH THE HELP OF EFFECTIVE POSTERS AND 
FLYERS. FOR FREE INFO. PACK, CALL 1-800-223-7592, AT TONE DIAL 268·2678. TOUCHTONE PHONES ONLY. 
FOR SALE A GORGEOUS BROWN DODGE CUSTOM VAN. Highway mi., well maintained. Perfect college road trip machine. Call Mark #2506 
••••cONGRADULATIONS••••• 
Little JON H. on a spectacular effort at the OLDSTYLE race. From the big guys and Denise. To bad the ladies can't keep there hands off you. 
Needed: 4 PSU GA's Jared X4246 
Needed: 4 PSU GA's JARED X4246 
FOR RENT ) 
an attractive studio in lovely old mansion near NO 255/mo call 2888595 
HOUSE FOR RENT · 527 S. Eddy St. 6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, eat-in Kitchen, Livingroom and finished room in basement. $500 security and $500/month plus utilities. Contact John at 232-1242. 
TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALL JANE 271·1920 
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure apts: 
1 bdrm-$275 
3 bdrm-$380 dep., references 616·483-9572 
FORSALE } 
'---=::::=:::::-----.J -1 HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364 
87 Fiero GT, loaded, mint end, org. owner, black, $7900/b.o. 273-9349 
Why rent when you can buy? Duplex condos for sale.$41 ,000 ea. or $78,000/duplex. 2 bdrms, 2 baths, kitchen-all appliances. $2000 down for NO students. 10 mins. from campus. 273-0388 
TICKETS L 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 
Need: 
TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! 
CALLJOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 
Need to sell one Purdue student ticket-LOW PRICE! Call Maura x4914. 
ND GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625. 
Need 2 GA's for Penn St call Ryan x1 048 
I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My parents will pay substancial amounts of cash. Call Marc at x1809. 
NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL TOM 273-0302 
$ 
ONE PENN STATE STUD FOR SALE­BEST OFFER Call JOE 271-1211 
$ 
HELP ME! I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. JOE X2358 

I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX CALL ARNOLD 3333 
HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. TONY x1590 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT 
(704) 322·3709 ASK FOR MARK. ----------1 
NEED PENN STATE GA'S FOR LITTLE SIS AND MOM PLEASE CALL DIEGO #4075 
Need up to 4 Penn GAs & 2 stu. x2567 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S 
CALL X3797 

Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283-1818 and leave a message. 
Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom x1581. Will beat any offer. 
Will trade 2 TN TIX PLUS $$$ For 3 TN TIX together. Call Mike 202·955-6616. 
Please help me I need Penn State GA's. And lots of them. They're for these relatives I don't know very well, and if I don't get any, it could be downright awkward. Call x2980. 
need 2 TN ga's Rick x1750 
•• NEED PENN ST. GA'S ••• call John at 234-5840 
DO YOU HAVE PENN ST. TIX? I NEED 8!!!! CALL TIM#2704 
Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll be happy! Cristin x3857 
HAVE SIX (6) NAVY GA's BUY SOME OR ALL CALL x3652 
\ PERSONALS 
hiag 
ROB 

Happy 21st! Hope you have better luck with your legal beer goggles than you did with your thick under-aged ones. May your birthday be filled with piece, so-co, and box. LOVE 
Darla, Lisa, Gina, and Steph 
BOOI BUY YOUR HALLOWEEN MAKE· UP MASKS AND REAL PUMPKINS AT THE COUNTRY HARVESTER, M-F, 12-5. 
FINANCE CLUB: INVESTMENT CHALLENGE MEETING TUES. OCT 30, 6:30AM. 222 HH 
••• Be sure to call 284-5503 and wish COLLEEN DANAHER a happy 19th BIRTHDAY!!!! You're the BEST. 
LOVE, STEVE 

JHF, The last year with you has been great. Thanks for always being there for me. You always make me smile!! Love, EAR 
THE HUNT IS ON !!!!! Nov. 2 & 3 
JET HOT-TUBS!?!?! Tell me ... do the candles always go out · BEFORE you both get there??? (You know I love you!) 
WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE!I!!! You got your wish times 5! (Is 5 your lucky number?? Tee hee.) 
Roses are Red Violets are Blue You're only 20!!! Boo-Hoo-Hoo!!! Happy B-day Grab!! We Love You, KJE!! 
Pasquerilla 
Pasquerilla EAST!! EAST!! 
SPIRIT WEEK 1990 "PYROMANIA" Oct.29-Nov. 4 ••Get Fired Up!!W• 

ellen: thanks for a great time in !Ia. I had fun soaking up the rays, dancing for sand dollars and avoiding IN men. gracias dude. kath 
p.s. how's your bug collection? 
Scoreboard 
page 15 Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
-
NFL STANDINGS NFL BOX A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 
7 3 0 0-10 AMEmcANCONFERENCE 14 3 10 14--41 The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Pr888 1990 college football poll, wtth first-place votea In EMt parentheses, records through Oct. 27, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one 
w L T Ptt PF PA Home Away AFC NFC DIY Finta..rtor point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's ranklngs: 
Buffalo 6 1 0 .657 187 136 4-0-0 2-1-0 6-1-() 0-0-0 4-1-0 LA-G.Green 100 kickoff return (Lansford Record Pia I've Next Miami 6 1 0 .857 152 90 3-0-0 3-1-() 6-o-0 0-1-0 5-0-0 kick}, :16. 1. Virginia (44} 7-0-0 1,462 1 116 Georgia Tech NY Jets 3 5 0 .375 151 1!10 1-2-0 2·3·0 3-5-0 0-o-0 1-3-0 Ph-Hoge 6 pass from Brister (Andemon kick}, 2. Notre Dame (6} 6-1-0 1,380 3 at Navy 
lndnplla 2 5 0 .286 105 162 1-2-0 1-3-0 1-5-0 1-o-0 0-3-0 5:05. 3. Nebraska (5} 9-0-0 1,350 4 ,9 Colorado N England 1 6 0 .143 100 196 0-4-0 1-2-0 1-6-0 0-0-0 1-4-0 Ptt-E.Gr99n 17 pass from Brister (Anderson 4. Aubum (2) 6-0-1 1,284 2 at •15 Florida kick}, 13:D4. 5.1111nols 6-1-0 1,230 5 113 Iowa 
Cenlnl 6. Houston (2} 7-0-0 1,196 6 TCU Clncnnall 5 3 0 .625 205 204 2-0-0 3-3-0 4-2-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 Second OtwWr 7. Washington (1} 7-1-0 1,189 7 •23 Arizona Houston 4 4 0 .500 181 152 3-2-0 1-2-0 3-2-0 1-2-0 1·1·0 LA-FG Lansford 32, :45. a. Mlam, Fla. 5-2-0 1,074 8 Pittsburgh 
Pnsburgh 4 4 0 .500 150 136 3-1-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 1-1-0 1·1-0 Ph-FG Andemon 42,4:46. 9. Colorado 7-1-1 1,009 10 at 13 Nebraska Cleveland 2 6 0 .250 128 193 1-2·0 1-4-0 2-4-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 10. Brigham Young 6·1-0 943 9 at Air Force Thirda..rtor 11. Tenness88 4-1-2 870 11 at Temple 
w.oc Ph-FG Andemon 30, 5:10. 12. Florida St. 5-2-0 807 12 at South Carolina LA Raldra 6 1 0 .857 147 99 4-0-0 2·1-0 5-1-0 1·0-0 4-0-0 Ph-Hoge1 run (Andemon kick), 11:12. 13.1owa 6-1-0 759 15 at •5 Illinois Kan. City 4 3 0 .571 167 114 3-0-0 1·3-0 1·3·0 3-o-0 0-2-0 14. Texas 5-1-0 742 13 at Texas Tech 
Denver 3 4 0 .429 168 178 2·2·0 1·2-0 3-4-0 0-0-0 2-1-0 F'otril Gklel1ar 15. Florida 6-1-0 638 14 14 Auburn Seanle 3 4 0 .429 144 135 2-1-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 0-1-0 1·3-0 Ph-Stone 8 pass from Brister (Andemon 16. Georgia Tech 6-0-1 612 16 at 11 Virginia San Diego 3 5 0 .375 164 142 1-3-0 2·2·0 2-4-0 1-1·0 0·1-0 kick}, :07. 17. Mississippi 7·1·0 519 17 at LSU 
Ph-Hoge 2 pass from Brister (Anderaon kick}, 18. Clemson 7-2-0 424 19 North Carolina NATIONAL CONFERENCE 12:18. 19. Wyoming 9-0-0 407 18 at Colorado State EMt A-56,466. 20. Michigan 4-3-0 403 20 at Purdue 
w L T Ptt PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv 21. Southern Cal 6-2-0 333 21 California NYGianta 7 0 0 1.000 171 96 5-0-0 2-0-0 1-0·0 6-0-0 6-0-0 lA Pit 22. Oregon 6-2-0 230 25 UCLA Washlngtn 4 3 0 .571 144 103 3-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 4-3-0 4-2-0 Fimt downs 13 16 23. Arizona 6-2-0 225 23 at •7 Washington Phlla 3 4 0 .429 151 152 1-2-0 2-2-0 0-1-0 3-3-0 1-3-0 Rushes-yards 23-44 34-189 24. Penn St 5-2·0 123 at West VIrginia Dallas 3 5 0 .375 110 156 2-2-0 1-3-0 1-0-0 2-5-0 0-5-0 Passing 173 156 25. Louisville 7·1·1 108 at Cincinnati Phoenix 2 5 0 .286 100 172 1-2-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 2-5-0 2-3-0 Return Yards 14 68 
Comp-An-lnt 15-35-2 15-24-1 Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 50, Ohio St. 38, Texas A&M 37, Oklahoma 29, Central Michigan 9, Centnll Sacked-Yards Lost 1-3 1-5 Georgia 6, Indiana 5, Texas Christian 4, North Carolina St. 1, Nonh Carolina 1, South Carolina 1, Chicago 8 1 0 .857 173 96 4-0-0 2·1·0 1-1·0 5-0-0 3-0-0 Punts 5-40 5-37 Syracuse 1, UCLA 1. Tampa Bay 4 4 0 .500 157 182 2·2·0 2·2·0 0·1-0 4-3-0 4-0-0 Fumbles-Lost 3-1 0-0 
Detroit 3 4 0 .429 168 179 1·2-0 2·2-0 0-1-0 3-3-0 1-3-0 Penalties-Yards 5-44 9·136 .429 156 1-2-0 3-3-0 Time of Pos888slon 32:34
Gr88n Bay 3 4 0 127 2·2-0 0-1-0 2-3-0 27:26 89-90 NBA STANDINGS COLLEGE SCHEDULES Mlnesota 1 6 0 .143 150 1-2·0 0-4·0 0-1-0 0-4-0
159 1-5-0 INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS EASTERN CONFERENCE w.oc Alenlic Dlvlelon 
Saturdey, Nov. 3 
San Fran 7 0 0 1.000 174 118 4-0-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 RUSHING-Los Angeles, Gary 15-34, McG88 w L Pl:t. CB EAST Atlanta 3 4 0 .429 199 200 3-1·0 0-3·0 2-0-0 3-15, Warner 4-6, English 1-(minus 11). Pittsburgh, y-Phlladelphla 53 29 .646
1-4-0 1-3-0 Rutgera (3·5} at Army (3-4} 
LA Rams 2 5 0 .286 174 214 t-2-0 1-3-0 0·2·0 2-3-0 1-0-0 W.WIIIIams 8-79, Foster 6-53, Hoge 18-52, Brister z-Boston 52 30 .634 1 Syracuse (4·2·2) at Boston College (4-3} NewOrlns 2 5 0 .286 t15 150 2-2-0 0-3-0 1-1-0 1-4-0 0-2-0 2-6. z-NewYork 45 37 .549 8 Columbia (1·6} at Dartmouth (4·2·1} 
Washington 31 51 .378 22 

Connecticut (4-4} at Delaware (4-4} Sunday'eGe..-e PASSING-Los Angeles, J.Everen 15-34-2-Miami 18 64 .220 35 
Lalayene (3-5} at Fordham (1-6) 
Brown (1-6} at Harvard (4-3} 
Buffalo 27. New England 10 176, Long 0-1-0-0. Plnsburgh, Brister 15-24·1-161, New Jersey 17 -65 .207 36 Bucknell (5-3} at Holy Cross (6-1·1} Detroit 27. New Orleans 10 Strom 0-0-0-0. 
Colgate (6-2) at Lehigh (5-3} Gr88n Bay 24, Mlnn88ota 10 RECBVING-Los Angeles, Ellard 7-99, x-Detroh 59 23 .720 
Mlaml27, Indianapolis 7 Centnll Dlvlelon Boston U. (4-4) at Maine (2-6} 
New York Jets 17, Houston 12 McG88 5-39, A.Cox 1·20, W.Anderson 1-12, z-Chlcago 55 27 .671 4 Notre Dame (6-1} vs. Navy (3-4) at East Philadelphia 21, Dallas 20 Holohan 1-6. Phtaburgh, Hoge 6-28, Stone 2-48, z-Milwauk88 44 38 .537 15 
Rutherford, N.J. 
Villanova (4-4} at New Hampshire (6·1·1} 
Chicago 31, Phoenix 21 Lipps 2-32, H1112-23, E.Gr99n 1-17, Bellt-8, z-Cieveland 42 40 .512 17 Rhode Island (3-5} at Northeastern (1-7)San Francisco 20, Cleveland 17 Mularl<ey 1·5. z-lndlana 42 40 .512 17 Penn (2·5} at Princeton (2·5} 
San Diego 41, Tampa Bay 10 Atlanta 41 41 .500 18 New Haven (0-0} at T owaon St. (1· 7} 
New Vorl< Giants 21, Washington 10 MISSED FIELD GOALS-Los Angeles, Orlando 18 64 .220 41 Penn St. (5·2} at W88t Virginia (3-4} 
Atlanta 36, Cincinnati 17 Lansford 48, 42. 
Cornell (4·3} at Yale (4-3} MidMet Dlvlllion 
OPEN DATES: Denver. Los Angel88 Raiders, Kansas City, Seanle WESTERN CONFERENCE 
SOUTHTRANSACTIONS w L Pl:t. CB Eastern Kentucky (8-0} at Austin Peay (0·8} 
Mondey'• Geme Pittsburgh 41, Los Angeles Rams 10 y-San Antonio 56 26 .683 
Elizabeth City St. (3-5-1} at BASEBALl. Bethune-Cookman (2-6}
z-Utah 55 27 .671 1 Sundey, Nov. 4 Amerlcen I..Hgue z-Dallas 47 35 .573 9 Liberty (6-3} at Central Florida (5-3), Night 
BOSTON RED SOX-Waived Dwight Evans, 43 .524 VM I (3-5} at Chadel (5-3} outfielder, for the purpose of giving him his Nonh Carolina (5-2-1} at Clemson (7·2} 
Atlanta at Plnaburgh. 1 p.m. z-Denver 39 13 
Dallas at New York Jets, 1 p.m. z-Houston 41 41 .500 15 unconditional release. North Carolina A& T (7-1} at Delaware St. (6·2}
New England at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. Minnesota 22 60 .268 34 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Named Jay Wake For88t (2-6} at Duke (3-5} 
New Orleans at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. Charlone 19 63 .232 37 Phoenix at Miami, 1 p.m. 
Robertson scouting supervisor, and Jerry Laputa Wofford (8·1} at East Tenneas88 St. (2·6), Night Loa Angeles Raiders at Kansas Ctty, 1 p.m. Paciic Dlvlelon
and Mark Germann scouts. Aubum (6-0·1} at Florida (6-1} San Francisco at Gr88n Bay, 1 p.m. BASKETBALl. x-LALakera 63 19 .768 James Madison (5-3} at Georgia Southam (5-3} Nationel Baak.etbell Auocletion Alabama St. (5·2·1} at Grambling St. (6-2}
Washington at Detrott, 1 p.m. z-Portland 59 23 .720 4 DETROIT PISTONS-Waived John Mcintyre, Morgan St. (0·9} at Howard U. (5-3} 
Buffalo at CI8V81and, 4 p.m z-Phoenlx 54 28 .659 9 
guard. 41 Texas Southern (4·5} at Jackson St. (6·2), Night 
Chicago at Tampa Bay, 4 p.m. Seanle 41 .500 22 
MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Waived Mississippi (7-1) at LSU (4·3)
Houston at Los Angol88 Rams, 4 p.m. Golden State 37 45 .451 26 
Leon Wood and Anthony Bowie, guards. Appalachian St. (4-4) at Mamhall (4-4)
San Diego at Seanle, 4 p.m. LA Clippers 30 52 .366 33 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Signed Jayson East Carolina (3-6) at Memphis St. (4·3·1}
Denver at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Sacramento 23 59 .280 40 Williams, forward. x-cllnched conference thle 
Pittsburgh (3-4-1} at Miami, Fla. (5·2} FOOTBALl. Alcorn St. (2-5} at Mississippi Valley St. (4-4)
y-cllnched division title National Footbel League Alabama (3-4} at Mississippi St. (3-4}Mondey, Nov. S 
New Vorl< Giants at Indianapolis, 9 p.m. z-cllnched playoff benh 
DETROIT LIONS-Signed Rodney P88te, Murray St. (1·7} at Morehead St. (3-6} quarterback, to a one-year contract extension and Louisiana Tech (5-3} at William Whhe, safety, and Chris Spielman. RESULTS NE Louisiana (5·3}, Night linebacker, to two-year oontract extensions. Sam Houston St. (3-5) at NW Louisiana (2-6} 
FINAL NBA STATISTICS 1989-1990 MINNESOTA 7, Men's Hocl<ey 2 
HOCKEY Mississippi College (7-1} at Nlltionel Hockey I..Hgue Nicholls St. (3-5), Night 
ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 4, Men's Hocl<ey 3 

ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 2, Men's Hocl<ey 0 Scortng 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Assigned Bob Wilkie Massachusens (6-0-1) at Richmond (1-7} 
defenseman, to Adirondack of the American Southam Mississippi (6-3} at SW Louisiana (3-5) 
G FG FT Pia A"!! 

Hockey League. Catawba (4·5) at Samord (4-3-1}Jordan. Chi. 82 1034 593 2753 33.6 
MCC Championships Malone, Lltah 82 914 696 2540 31.0 
PITISBURGH PENGUINS-Assigned Jim Florida St. (5-2) at South Carolina (4-3} 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 72, Marquene 50 Ewing, N.Y. 82 922 502 2347 28.6 
Paek, defenseman. to the Canadian National Florida A&M (5-3} at Southam U. (3-4) 
Team. Temple (4·3} at Tenness88 (4·1·2} Charrbera, Phoe. 81 810 557 2201 27.2 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 3, FlU 2 (OT) Wllklna, Atl. 80 810 459 2136 26.7 
TORONTO MAPLE LEAFs-Named Tom Wat Tennessee Tech (5·3} at Tenn88S88 St. (4-4} 
Notre Dame lnvhatlonal Bart<ley, Phil. 79 706 557 1989 25.2 
coach for the remainder ol the season. Weatern Carolina (3-6) at 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 1, Dayton 0 Mullin, G.S. 78 692 505 1956 25.1 
COLLEGE Tenneas88-Chananooga (4-4), Night 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 4, xavier 0 Miller, Ind. 82 661 544 2016 24.6 
PACE-Named Steven Weiss Ice hockey Georgia Tech (6-0-1} at Virginia (7-0} 
coach and Brian Way assistant Ice hockey coach. Nonh Carolina St. (5-4} at VIrginia Tech (4-4) Olajuwon, Hou. MCC CHAMPIONSHIPS
82 806 382 1995 24.3 

TEMPLE-Named Nate Blackwell men's Furman (6-2) at William & Mary (6-2) Robinson, S.A. 82 690 613 1993 24.3 MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 15, Loyola 64 
assistant basketball coach. 
Bird, Bos. 75 718 319 1820 24.3 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 30, Loyola 47 MIDWESTMalone. Wash. 75 781 257 1820 24.3 

Northern Illinois (5-3} at Akron (3-5-1}Drexler, Port. 73 670 333 1703 23.3 
Ball St. (4-4) at Cantrai Michigan (7·1-1} 
Can1Jbell, Minn. 82 723 448 1903 23.2 NHL STANDINGS Louisville (7·1·1} at Cincinnati (1·7}K.Johnson, Phoe. 74 578 501 1665 22.5 
Western Kentucky (2-5} at Eastern Illinois (4-5) Cummings, S.A. 81 728 343 1818 22.4 WALES CONFERENCE Iowa (6-1} at Illinois (6-1) King. Wash. 82 711 412 1837 22.4 Pn1ck Dlvlelon Illinois St. (4-5} at Indiana St. (3-6}
Johnson, LAL 79 546 567 1765 22.3 w L T Pia GF ~ Home A-y DIY Iowa St. (3-4-1) at Kansas St. (4-4)Tisdale, Sac. 79 726 306 1758 22.3 NY Rangera 10 3 0 20 55 30 7-o-0 3-3-0 4-1-0 Bowling Green (2-4-2} at Kent St. (1·7}Richmond, G.S. 78 640 406 1720 22.1 New Jersey 8 3 1 17 50 39 7-0-1 1-3-0 5-3-0 Eastern Michigan (2-6} at Mlam, Ohio (3-4-1} 
Philadelphia 6 5 0 12 42 40 4-1-0 2-4-0 2·3-0 
Indiana (4-2-1} at Michigan St. (3·3·1}
Field Goel Pwrcentege Washington 6 7 0 12 41 44 4-2-0 2-5-0 3-4-0 Oklahoma (5-3) at Miasouri (3-5)
FG FGA Ptt Pittsburgh 5 6 1 11 55 51 3-3-0 2-3-1 4-3-0 Southwest Missouri St. (8-1} at
W88t, Phoo. 331 530 .625 NY lslandera 3 9 0 6 30 50 2-3-0 1·5-0 1-4-0 Northern Iowa (5-3}, Night Bart<ley, Phil. 706 1177 .600 
Colorado (7-1-1} at Nebraska (8-0} 
Pariah, Boa. 505 871 .580 Adame Dlvillon Northwestern (2-5} at Ohio St. (4·2·1}Malone, Utah 914 1627 .562 Boston 6 4 1 13 36 41 4-o-0 2-4-1 2-0-0 Michigan (4-3) at Purdue (1-6}Woolridge, LAL 306 550 .556 Montreal 6 6 1 13 42 44 4·1·0 2·5-1 3-1·1 Western Illinois (1·7} at Southern Illinois (2-7} Ewing, N.Y. 922 1673 .551 Hartford 4 6 2 10 30 40 3-1·1 1-5-1 2-2-2 Toledo (7·1} at W. Michigan (5-3) McHale, Boa. 648 1181 .549 Buffalo 3 5 3 9 36 36 1·2-2 2-3-1 1-4-2 Minnesota (4-3} at Wisconsin (1·6)Thorpe, Hou. 547 998 .548 Quebec 3 7 3 9 38 53 1-3-2 2-4-1 1-2-3 Ohio U. (1-6-1} at Youngstown St. (8-0}
Wonhy, LAL 711 1298 .548 Williams, Pon. 413 754 .548 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
SOUTHWEST
Nonie Dlvlelon Rice (3-5} at Arl<ansas (2-5}
Rello....tng w L T Pia GF ~ Home Awey Dlv Texas Christian (5·2} at Houston (7·0} 
G 01 Dol Tal A\9 Chicago 8 5 0 16 43 32 6·2-0 2-3-0 4-2-0 Olajuwon, Hou. 82 299 850 1149 14.0 St. Louis 7 3 1 15 40 33 3·1·1 4-2-0 3-1-1 
Arl<ansas St. (3-4-1} at North Texas (4-4}, Night 
Kansas (2·5-1} at Oklahoma St. (3-5} Texas A&M (5-2-1} at Southern Melhodlst (1-6} 
Robinson, S.A. 82 303 680 983 12.0 Detroit 6 3 3 15 49 43 6-0-0 0-3-3 2-0·2 
Bart<ley. Phil. 79 361 548 909 11.5 Minnesota 2 7 3 7 31 47 2·2·2 0-5-1 0-4-2 McN88Se St. (4-4} at Stephen F. Austin (1·7) Malone, Utah 82 232 679 911 11.1 Toronto 1 10 1 3 29 57 1-4-1 0-6-0 1-2-1 Ewing, N.Y. 82 235 658 893 10.9 
Texas (5-1} at Texas Tech (2-6) 
Selkaly, Mia. 74 253 513 766 10.4 Smythe Dlvlelon FAR WEST 
Pariah, Boa. 79 259 537 796 10.1 Los Angel88 8 2 1 17 53 32 6-1-1 2-1-0 3-2·1 Malone, Atl. 81 364 448 812 10.0 Calgary 8 4 0 16 52 36 5-1-0 3-3-0 4-1-0 Brigham Young (6·1} at Air Force (4-4} 
• 
Cage. Sea. 82 306 515 821 10.0 Vancouver 6 5 0 12 36 39 3-1-0 3-4-0 2-3-0 Oregon St. ( 1· 7} at Arizona St. (2-5}, Night Williams. Pon. 82 250 550 BOO 9.8 Winnipeg 4 7 1 9 41 42 4-3-0 0-4-1 3-2-1 Wyoming (9-0} at Colorado St. (5-3} Rodman, Dot. 82 336 456 792 9.7 Edmonton 2 6 2 6 29 31 2·3-1 0-3-1 0-4-2 New Mexico (2· 7} at Hawaii (4-3}, Night Lalrrbeer, Dot. 81 166 614 780 9.6 Nonhem Arizona (4-4) at Idaho (5-3} Bird, Boa. 75 90 622 712 9.5 Monday'• Geme Eastern Washington (4-4} at 
N.Y. Rangers 5, Quebec 0 Idaho St. (2-6), Night Bolle St. (6-2) at Montana St. (3·5} 
~"' 
G No. A\9. Tuelldey'a a..... Montana (6-2} at Nevada (8-0} 
Stocl<ton, Lltah 78 1134 14.5 St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. UCLA (4-4} at Oregon (6-2} Johnson, LAL 79 907 11.5 Los Angel88 at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Portland St (5-4} at Pacific U. (3-5} K.Johnaon, Phoe. 74 846 11.4 Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Lltah (3-5} at San Diego St. (2-4}, Night 
Boguea, Char. 81 867 10.7 Minnesota at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Fullerton St. ( 1-8} at San Jose Sl. (5·2·1} Grant, LAC 44 442 10.0 New Jersey at Calgary, 9:35p.m. California (5-3} at Southern Cal (6·2} Thomas, Dot. 81 765 9.4 Washington at Vanoouver, 10:35 p.m. Washington St. (3-5} at Stanford (2·6} Price, Clev. 73 666 9.1 Fr88no St. (6-1·1} at UNL V (4-5}, Night Poner, Por1. 80 726 9.1 Wed.-day'• Games New Mexloo St. (0-8} at Lltah St. (2-4-1} Hardaway, G.S. 79 669 8.7 Boston at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Arizona (6-2} at Washington (7·1} Walker, Wash. 81 652 9.0 Montreal at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Douglas, Mia. 81 619 7.6 Los Angeles at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Bird, Boa. 75 562 7.5 Winnipeg at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 

On second and goal at the NO 3, George Williams throws Gene McGuire for a three-yard loss. In the final confrontation between the two teams, Mike Heldt confronts Miami's Shane Curry. 

~ 
The Final Confrontation 
~ Photos by Patrick Kusek, Andrew McCloskey and Jotm Studebaker 






Leonard Conley, hit by Greg Davis, fumbles at the Notre Dame three with 4:44 left in the game . 

Miami quarterback Craig Erickson is pressured by Demetrius DuBose. Culver gains seven on a pass over the middle Erickson picked apart the Irish secondary for 355 passing yards. from Mirer. 

Raghib Ismail slashes for a gain around the Miami line as Russell 
George Williams recovers Gene McGuire's (30) fumble, forced by Scott Kowalkowski, at the Miami 25. 
Maryland (67) tries to escape a block. 
-~----~~­


Raghib Ismail, on getting a block from Tony Brooks (40), returns a kickoff versus Pittsburgh for 24 yards. Tony Brooks sprints through a wide gap and sprints to the end zone m the first quarter to make the score 7-0 Notre Dame. 

Alex Van Pelt completed a record 37 passes against Notre Dame for a 384 yard tally. 

Todd Lyght intercepts a Van Pelt pass in the second quarter for a touchback, stopping a Pittsburgh drive. 

Winning Ugly in the City of Steel 
Photos by Andrew McCloskey and John Studebaker 






... 
r-----------------------~-~-­
The Observer 

page 18 Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
Steelers' special teams shine as 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Join hosts Hugh McGowen and Vic Lombardi for WVFI Sportstalk. Guests Andre Jones and Tony Brooks will talk
Pittsburgh crushes Los Angeles 
about Notre Dame's drive for the National Championship from 8-9 p.m. on 640AW Call in 239-6400. 
PITTSBURGH (AP) --The and Dwight Stone combined to six-yard Brister-to-Hoge TD 
Pittsburgh Steelers special teams overcame their own bungling and became some­thing special Monday night. 
Embarrassed a week ago at San Francisco when they al­lowed the 49ers to recover a kickoff at their own 5, and vic­timized Monday night by Gaston Green's 100-yard return of the opening kickoff. the Pittsburgh special teams made a 180-degree turn in helping the Steelers over the Los Angeles Rams 41-10. 
The offense and defense cer­tainly helped. Hubby Brister had four touchdown passes, two following interceptions. and Merril Hoge had three touchdowns and Pittsburgh's league~leading pass defense limited Jim Everett to 15 com­pletions in 34 attempts for 176 yards. But it was the special teams that set the tone. 
Rod Woodson returned kick­offs 44 and 49 yards to set up two field goals by Gary Anderson. And Larry Griffin 
Dolphins' defense keys strong start 
MIAMI (AP) -The last time the Miami Dolphins had a de­cent defense was the last time they made the playoffs. 
Now, five years later, they've given up the fewest yards in the NFL and -voila! ­they're again a first-place team. 
Miami allowed 356 yards per game a year ago. fifth-worst in the league, but the average is 230 this season. Indianapolis managed just 132 yards. the lowest net against the Dolphins since 1979, in Miami's 27-7 victory Sunday. 
"We've pretty much stayed with the same defensive philosophy," coach Don Shula said Monday. "It was just a question of guys making the push upfield and getting rid of the blocker and staying in their lanes and pursuing." 
With five new starters on de­fense this season, Miami has allowed a league-low 90 points. That's an average of 13 a game. compared with 23 a year ago. 


... 
New York $115 Frankfurt $246 
London 250 Zurich 280 
Paris 270 
Scheduled camers' Book any11me1 
Fares 1i2 RT !rom Ch1cago Some re­
si"CIIons apply On-lhe·spol ra1l· 
passes In! I Sludenl I D. cards. youlh 
hoslel passf~~, work and sludy pro-
COUncitfiil 
1153 N Dearborn Si Ch1cago IL 60610 
312-951-0585 

stuff Rams punter Keith English. setting up a one-yard TD run by Hoge that opened up a 27-10 lead in the third quar­ter. 
The victory improved Pittsburgh's record to 4-4. The Rams are 2-5 and in serious jeopardy of missing the playoff spot that had been virtually conceded to them before the season. 
The Steelers' special teams were anything but special early, looking as bad on Green's 100-yard romp up the sideline as they did a week ago, when Barry Foster let a San Francisco kickoff drop un­touched, contributing to a 49ers' touchdown. 
Foster contributed Monday night with a 38-yard run that set up Pittsburgh's final score, a two-yard pass to Hoge from Brister, who completed 15 of 24 for 161 yards. 
The Steelers bounced back from Green's kickoff return to tie the score on a 75-yard, eight-play drive, capped by a pass. Brister was 6-for-6 for 61 yards on the drive. 
Late in the first period, David Johnson intercepted a pass by Everett and returned it 34 yards to the Rams' 17. On the next play. Brister hit Eric Green all alone in the end zone for the 275-pound rookie's sixth touchdown this season, a team record for a tight end. 
Mike Lansford's 32-yard field goal 45 seconds into the second period cut it to 14-10. 
But Woodson returned the kickoff 49 yards to the Rams' 39, setting up a 42-yarder by Anderson that made it 17-10 at hal...Lime. 
Woodson did it again on the second-half kickoff. which he brought back 45 yards to the Los Angeles 45. That set up an­other field goal, this one from 30 yards. 
Then came the key play in Pittsburgh's biggest win since the opening game of 1985 sea­son, a 45-3 victory over the Indianapolis Colts. 

HAPPY 21st MARY SULLIVAN! 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, MAUREEN, JOHN, NEIL, and MAGGIE 

The New 1991 MCAT 
Test Dates: April 27, 1991 September 14, 1991 
Test Duration: 5 hours 45 Minutes 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your h1ghest on the 
TM ' 

MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best guarante~ 1~ your insurance policy. If you're not completely saushed wnh your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the ennre course ...at 
no charge! . We offer expert live instruction, innovanve home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE® labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
r;:i STANLEY H. KAPlAN
1Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
SIGN UP IN SOUTH BEND TO AVOID A WAITING LIST FOR CLASS SEATS. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
SIGN UP BY 12/1/90RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AND SAVE $45.00! AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
"Roosevelt's paralegal program was my stepping­stone to a rewarding career." 
Anne Hillard Legal Assistant 

The Sailing Club will have a meeting tonight in Room 205 O'Shag at 6:30 p.m. Please bring revenues from the t­shirt sales. 
Flag Football Drive to cure paralysis will be Nov. 9-11. Sign up at NVA. 
All Novice and Varsity crew members should come to 104 O'Shag at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 31st. Novice ergathon dues will be collected and this weekend's regatta will be discussed. Also, rent-a-rower details will be discussed. Varsity should bring $6 extra for Stevenson's. 
Women's Field Hockey has a 4:30 game today at Goshen. Players call Suzanne at x417 4 or Melissa at 277­7 496 for information. 
Novice boxers are reminded that training begins this week in the boxing room at the ACC. All beginners should attend; veterans are welcome. Practice starts at 4 p.m. daily. Questions, call Norm at 233-8133. 
Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts &: Wills Employee Benefits Plan 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in filinois 

• 
Effective employment assistance 

• 
Four-month day and eight-month evening classes 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 

• 
Student loans for qualified applicants 

• 
Spring and Summer terms begin in February and June 


A representative will be on your campus November 2, 1990. Please contact your placement officeto schedulean appointment. 
For additional information. please call collect: 
.~ 
Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant Program 
430 S. Michigan Ave. 
• Chicago, IL 60605 (312) 341-3882 


FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS A SUMMER STUDENT NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in 
operating rooms. Application Deadline: Benefits include: December 1' 1990 
• 
Hourly salary of $8.45 

• 
Differentials of $.50/hour for evenings, $.60/hour for nights 

• 
Subsidized apartment living 

• 
Orientation, tours, discussion groups 


For more information contact: 
Mayo Medical Center 


Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 1 800-247-8590 
1-507-255-4314 An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer 

--------~~---------~----------------------~ --~-----------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 18 
goals for the Irish. but Erickson capped a nine-play, 80-yard

Miami Pitt 
drive with a one-yard 


continued from page 24 
touchdown run. Miami went

continued from page 24 into the locker room with a 17­tory that stopped a powerfulNotrn Damn actually madn the 16 lead. 
Panther drive.
first mistake. Irish fullback 
llcntrich added two more field 

Hodnny Culver fumbled on the goals in the third quarter, but "I was happy with the inter­lirst play from serimmagn, and Huerta connected on a 25-yard ception," said Grimm, a Penn­
Hurrieann fullback Steve 
field goal early in the fourth to sylvania native, "since I hadMcGuire scored six plays later 

put Miami within striking 

been frustrated with them run­on a onn-yard run to givn Miami distance at 22-20. 
ning routes around me."
an early lead. 
The play that sealed the game Holtz explained that while VanTlw teams tradnd field goals for the Irish was one that Holtz Pelt's pertormance against thn

lu~fore Ismail went to work. 
said he thought of during Irish defense disturbed him.

With I :43 left in the pnriod, breakfast. 
Notre Dame's zone coverage,Ismail linldml a Carlos Huerta With just over six minutes left in which allowed Pitt receivers tokiek at his own 6 and ran 94 the game and Notre Dame catch short patterns in front ofyards f•.,r thn touchdown. Miami facing third-and-four from the the Irish defenders, protected ahad kicked away from Ismail on Miami 21, Hick Mirer connected Irish young secondary from re­two previous occasions. 
with Culver on the "fullback 

linquishing the middle or ,longdump" over the middle. Culver yardage passes.
"I caught the ball, slipped and caught the ball at the 15 and 
got up." said Ismail in 
then ran in for the touchdown. 

We need to be able to playdescribing the return. "I saw a "The touchdown play we kinda some man and play it a littlecrease and got through that and 
made up at breakfast today," bit better." said Holtz.

moved to my left. Then I saw Culver said. "I brushed the end 
"because right now with ouranothnr guy. Thnn I saw the 
and came off into the open field young kids, we're playing a lotkicker and I got past him. After and Hick gave me a great pass of zone and giving up certainthat. I knew I had a chance to to catch." 

things."
take it to tlw housf~." 
Miami advanced to the Notre 

Said Dennis Erickson, "You 
Dame 25 on its next possession, Notre Dame played much of

work against it all wenk in but Irish linebacker Michael the second half without
practice, you know what to do. 
Stonebreaker recovered a 

Zorich, who was injured
Thm1 you get in the game, he Leonard Conley fumble to seal 
midway through the third
gnts tlw ball and he's gone." 
the victory. 

quarter. Double-teamed mostCraig lltmtrich added two linld of the game and the cause of a 
tAmerican Heart~ Association ~  The Observer I Andrew McCloskey Rodney Culver scores the final touchdown of the game versus Miami in the fourth quarter with 6:16 left, crossing the endzone after a fullback dump over the middle from Rick Mirer.  
IF THEY LOOK LIKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYERS, YOU'RE ONLY SEEING PART OF THE PICTURE. RODNEY CULVER of the NOTRE DAME FIGIITING IRISH Toyota honors junior Rodney Culver, fullback of $1,000 contribution to its general scholarship fund. the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, as a recipient of the The example Rodney Culver has set is an Toyota Leadership Award for demonstrating inspiration to us all. And as a leader in its own field, outstanding leadership in the fields ofacademics, Toyota recognizes the discipline and unrelenting effort athletics, and community service. it takes to excel. So next time you watch a college Rodney Culver will receive the Toyota Leadership football game, look a little closer. There's a lot more Plaque, and the University ofNotre Dame will receive a talent on the field than you realize. "/love what you do for me7 @TOYOTA  

number of Pitt holding penalties, Zorich had forced a fumble and contributnd to five tackles (two for losses) when his right kneecap slipped out of and back into place, sidelining him for the rest of the game. The injury, which is similar to the one that kept Zorich out of spring practice his freshman year, will probably prnvent the senior nose taekle from playing in this week's game against Navy. 
While the Irish defense shone for most of the game, the Notre Dame offense was largely un­productive, due in part to some Panther defense antics. "They kept us off-balance," said Holtz of the Pitt defense. "They never had a rhyme nor reason for what they did. We couldn't get anything estab­lished." 
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer had his first less-than­spectacular game for Notre Dame, completing only 5 of 16 passes for 85 yards and one interception, his third of the season. Butter-lingered receivers, who dropped a number of catchable balls, contributed to the poor showing, as did the Irish offen­sive line, which after an im­pressive game against Miami, did not give Mirer adequate time to set up for the pass. Mirer was sacked three times for a loss of 16 yards. 
Ismail and tailback Tony Brooks accounted for most of the Irish offensive highlights. Brooks, who ran for 91 yards on the day. took advantage of Lyght's interception and Mc­Donald's fumble recovnry to score both of Notre Dame's first-half touchdowns. Ismail took over in the final two stanzas, running for 110 yards on 10 attempts while compiling 214 all-purposn yards. 
Both teams hurt thnmselves with a total of 18 ptmalties that accounted for 182 lost yards, including four 15-yard penalties for the Panthers. The first of those. a roughing-the­kicker call on Hentrich's only punt, dislocated the kicker's left thumb. Ilentrich continued his place­kicking duties but could not catch the long snaps on punts and was replaced by back-up Jim Sexton. The thumb has been fitted with a cast and may prevent him from punting next week. 
-
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
ND ties for No. 2 in poll 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
Virginia maintained its top ranking this week in the National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll released Sunday, while Notre Dame climbed from fourth into a tie for second with Nebraska. The Cavaliers, idle this week, received 20 first-place votes and 474 total. Nebraska gained three first-place votes after whipping Iowa State 45­13, while the Irish, 31-22 win­ners over Pittsburgh, both racked up 431 points. Washington received the other first-place vote and placed sev­enth in the poll after thrashing California 46-7. Not much movement occurred in the rankings this week. Colorado, preparing for next week's Big Eight showdown with the Cornhuskers, defeated slumping Oklahoma 31-22 and made the biggest jump in the poll, from twelfth to ninth. Georgia Tech, which struggled on defense against Duke, 
Rocket 
continued from page 24 
up 14 points and 171 yards to secure the victory. 
"I thought offensively we did not play well at all," Holtz said. "We never got into a rhythm, we couldn't get anything estab­lished. Rocket went in at tail­back and gave us a big break." 
Ismail's 76-yard scoring run, his. longest run from scrim­mage, was undoubtedly the pivotal play of the game. With just under eight minutes remaining in the contest, Pitt failed to convert on fourth-and­12 from the Irish 33. 
No sooner did the Panther of­fense leave the field than Ismail took quarterback Rick Mirer's handoff from the 24­yard line, followed guard Tim Ryan's and fullback Rod Culver's blocks up the middle and sprinted down the right sideline to give Notre Dame ari insurmountable 24-7 lead that cleared the Pitt student section. 
"It was a tremendous hole," Ismail said. "I saw it, ran to it, and just kept going. When I was playing tailback earlier in the game, they were doing a lot of different things. Late in the game, our line just took over." 
"We needed to stop them in the key situations," Pitt strong safety Louis Riddick said, "but when you play a guy like Ismail, he will break one or two big plays like he did." 
Pitt held Ismail to one recep­tion for eight yards in the first half, but he caught Mirer's first pass of the second half and raced 49 yards to the Panther 22 to set up Craig Hentrich's 39-yard field goal. 
"Overall, I think we played well as a defensive unit," Pitt outside linebacker Ricardo McDonald said. "Ismail had some big plays, but I was pleased with our performance overall." 
Ismail caught th.ree passes for 64 yards in the game, re­turned a kickoff for 24 yards and a punt for ten. He has amassed 705 total yards in Notre Dame's past three games, numbers which have put him back into the thick of the Heisman Trophy race. 
"There is no question that Raghib Ismail is the finest football player in the country," said Pittsburgh head coach Paul Hackett. 

The National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll, with last week's rankings, records, first place votes in parentheses. and total points: 
1. (1) Virginia (20)  7-0  474  
2. (2) Nebraska (3)  8-0  431  
tie (4) Notre Dame  6-1  431  
4. (3) Auburn  6-0-1 427  
5. (6) Houston  7-0  354.5  
6. (5) Illinois  6-1  349.5  
7. (7) Washington (1) 7-1  348  
8. (8) Miami  5-2  298  
9. (12) Colorado  7-1-1282  
10. (9) BYU  6-1  257  
11. (10) Tennessee  4-1-2 222  
12. (11) Florida State 5-2  217  
13. (15) Texas  5-1  186  
14. (14) Florida  6-1  162  
15. (17) Iowa  6-1  143  
16. (13) Ga. Tech  6-0-1130  
17. (16) Mississippi  7-1  81  
18. (18) Wyoming  9-0  73  
19. (nr) Clemson  7-2  39  
20. (19) usc  6-2  37  

Also receiving votes: Michigan 27.5, Arizona 22, Penn State 21, Oregon 11, Louisville 10.5, Texas Christian 2, San Jose State 1 Voters from the following schools participated in this poll: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State, Brown, Colorado, California, Columbia, Duke, Florida State, Harvard, Indiana, Kansas, Miami, Michigan, Notre Dame. Oregon, Penn State, Purdue, Texas, USC, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin 
pulling out a 48-31 victory, fell the furthest of any team this week, from no. 13 to no. 16. 
A WEEKEND 
~ ~---­

----~~--­
The Observer page 20 
Cross country wins MCC race 
Men, after falling to William &Mary, are perfect in MCC 



EE THE INYLI 




Campus Band Opener at 7:30PM Tiny Lights performing at 8:30. 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team had a roller­coaster break, taking its first loss of the season to William and Mary Oct. 20 and following the loss with a landslide victory at the MCC conference meet last Saturday. 
The Irish started the week with a 26-29 loss to William and Mary, despite capturing five of the top ten spots, includ­ing the top two. Senior Captain Mike O'Connor tied with team­mate Ryan Cahill to take top honors for the Irish, with a time of 24:46 for the five-mile course. Also placing in the top ten for the Irish were John Coyle (seventh), Pat Kearns (ninth), and Mike McWilliams (tenth). 
"We ran horrendously," saidNotre Dame head coach Joe Piane after the race. "We did not compete as a group. O'Connor and Cahill did a great job, but I can't say that anyone else ran very well. 

RETREAT .EXPERIENCE
/ 

GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with othera, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your valu81, your relatlonahlp with Chrlat, your experience of Chrlatlan community and service. 
RETREAT November 30 ­
DATES: December 2, 1 000 
APPLICATIONS October 31­ACCEPTED: November 7 1090 
CONTACT: Campua Ministry Office 103 Heaburgh Library 230-71100 
COST: $25.00 
"There was no reason for it. We were physically ready to run a hell of a lot better, and it was a perfect day to run, so there's no excuse there. William and Mary just came a hell of a lot more prepared to run than our kids." 
A week after the William and Mary loss, the Irish dug in and 
Excel with us! 
Critical Care Nurse Internship Program 
Mayo Medical Center, 
Rochester, Minnesota 
At Mayo Medical Center, you'll find a commitment to excellence in the nursing profession as well as in patient care. 
We offer you: 

• 
Six month paid internship 

program-beginning in January and July 

• 
Salary starting at $28,800 (annual rate) 

• 
Rotation through five of Mayo's ten 

dynamic, advanced critical ,care units 

• 
Individualized orientation and instruction 

• 
Clinical Preceptorship 

• 
BCLS (and option of future ACLS) certification 

• 
Technologically advanced practice environment 


Application Deadlines For january : December 1, 1990 For july :january 1, 1991 
For more information, contact 
Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057, Rochester, MN 55903~ 6057 Phone 1-800-247-8590 or 507-255-4314 
swept eight of the top ten places, including the top six, winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship with a perfect score of 
15. The top six Notre Dame runners finished in a pack composed of Kearns, McWilliams, Coyle. O'Connor, Cahill and Nick Radkewich. 
"We kind of dominated the meet," said Piane. "Our goal was to score 15, and we wanted to get seven of the top ten, and we ended up with eight. We needed to run well after William and Mary and we needed to run as a group, and that's exactly what we did." 
Having captured the confer­ence crown, the Irish now can focus on their season-long goal: the NCAA tournament. Nov. 10. 
"All we have to do is a little bit more training and stay healthy for the next two weeks," said Piane. 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Women's soccer finishes 16-3-1, captures MCC title 

The Observer I Kenneth Osgood Susie Zilvitis (15) scored the game-winner versus Florida International in overtime last week and scored three goals against Xavier Sunday. 
ri~. 7fla.J-~21 
44~44-~ ~~~4-~7 'rilaftlul ~ 
2/4-t~~ 




By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team wrapped up its 1990 season in style this past week, winning the MCC Tournament and two other games to finish at 16-3-1. 
The Irish dumped Calvin College 2-0 on Oct. 20 behind unassisted second-half goals by freshmen Stephanie Porter and Andrea Kurek. 
Notre Dame's next victory was a 3-2 clitlbanger in overtime at Florida International on Oct. 24. The Irish, who had brought 20 players down to Florida, suf­fered the loss of several players. 
Standout sophomore goal­keeper Michelle Lodyga sprained her knee trying to save a goal with 10:00 remaining in the first half. Midfielders Margaret Jarc and Marta Roemer, who were replacing the already-injured Brenda Gorski, were also knocked out of the game in the first half. 
Typically, sophomore Cara Lewis would step in for Lodyga. However, since Notre Dame was only playing one game, normal procedures did not dictate the necessity of carrying two goalkeepers on such a trip. 
Enter Molly Lennon. 
Lennon had never played goalkeeper before. In addition to her paucity of goaltending experience, Lennon, who has played most of her games in the midfield, had been saddled with injuries this season. 
In 79:00 of goaltending that could air on rebirths of "That's Incredible" or "Ripley's Believe It or Not," Lennon made seven saves and allowed only one goal, as the Irish held on for a 

SEMINAR ON BUSINESS FACULTV CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS 

AND SENIORS AND JUNIORS 
IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 
ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
What•s involved in becoming a business professor? What are the academic qualifications and requirements? how long does it take? How much does it cost? Are scholarships available? Other financial help? What are the starting salaries and trends? What are the career satisfactions from teaching, research, and service? How much control over your life do you have? If I am interested, what are the next steps to take? 
I invite you to join many of the College•s faculty and other interested students for brief faculty presentations and a panel discussion. I hope to see you there. This meeting just might make you consider an entirely different career! Please join us. 
dean john g. keane 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30,4:15 PM ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 
tremendous road win. 
"We tried to play with four fullbacks and four midfielders after Margaret and Marta went down," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Molly went in to play goal, and the rest of the game we just refused to lose. We fought, we played hard and we scrapped the whole way. 
"Really, you have to figure that a player that has never played goalie will make more than one-mistake, but Molly re­ally only had one. She was very, very good back there. Everyone rallied around her playing." 
Alison Lester accounted for two goals and one assist, while Susie Zilvitis nabbed the game­winning goal in overtime. Mimi Suba assisted on the first of Lester's goals. 
"Without lots of our players and with the injuries, everyone picked up their level of play," noted Petrucelli. "I didn't expect the game to be close, but after the injuries I thought that we would be lucky to come out with a tie." 
The Irish returned home in time to host and win the Midwest Collegiate Conference (MCC) Tournament over October 27 and 28. 
In the first day of action, Xavier clubbed Marquette 3-0, while Notre Dame ran their winning streak to six games, trouncing Dayton 1-0. 
Early in the Dayton game, Marianne Giolitto, who did not start, was waiting at the scorer's table to substitute for Denise Chabot. Yet as Giolitto waited to enter the game, Chabot scored the only goal of the day for the Irish, as Notre Dame jumped out to a 1-0 lead that they would never relin­quish. 
On the second day of the tournament, Dayton thumped Marquette 4-0, while the Irish ended their season with a seven-game winning streak, soundly hammering Xavier 4-0. 

Xavier, who had been ranked 21st in the nation in Division I, in addition to being the fourth­ranked team in the central re­gion, proved unable to shut down the potent Irish squad. 
"We won a game against a quality opponent," said Petrucelli. ''They had a forward who was probably the best player we have faced all year, but Andrea Kurek shut her down. We have always put Andrea on the opponent's best player all year long and she did a great job as usual. 
"We took advantage of our opportunities. It was a great day for the team and for indi­vidual players. We won the con­ference tournament, finished the season with 16 wins and beat a Top 20 team-those are three great accomplishments for this team." 
Susie Zilvitis had a hat trick against Xavier, while Alison Lester added her 15th goal of the season. Marianne Giolitto, Stephanie Porter and Denise Chabot each added one assist. Lester's goal set a new record for most goals in a season by an individual player. Susie Zilvitis set the old record of 14 in 1988. 
Mimi Suba, playing in the last game of her Notre Dame career, also turned in a splendid performance. 
"In the last couple of games and the last couple of weeks, Mimi has been outstanding," observed Petrucelli. "She has picked up her level of play and played like a senior who is end­ing her season and her career." 
Closing out the season at 16­3-1 with a seven-game victory streak and winning of the MCC Tournament, observers have noted that Notre Dame has in­deed garnered a great deal of regional recognition and taken a giant step toward national prominence. 
How to start your lawcareer 6eforeyou start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 

c 

!KAPLAN 
.... 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend. IN 46637 
Phone 219/272-413~ 


page 22 The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
Defense vs. Miami-a setup or rising to occasion? 


... 
It was all a setup. 
The Stanford loss. The last-minute victories over Michigan and Michigan State. The defense that yielded 27 points to an otherwise impotent Air Force offense. 
At least that's what Notre Dame inside linebacker Michael Stonebreaker would have us believe following the improbable 29-20 Irish victory over second-ranked Miami on Oct. 20. 
"We were just setting up Miami the first couple of games," Stonebreaker joked, "so we knew when we played Miami we were gonna tighten up and play hard." 
In what Head Coach Lou Holtz called "a team effort, a players' win", the Irish defense did more than its part in keeping Notre Dame's national championship hopes alive. 
Just two weeks after surrendering 36 points in the loss to Stanford, the Irish defense held the Miami offense, ranked sixth nationally in scoring (37 .2 points per game), to 20 points, including just three in the second half. 
"You've got to give them credit," Miami head coach Dennis Erickson said. "They played defense a lot better than they had earlier in the year, but I knew that coming in. I knew they were going to play out­standing defense, and they did." 
"That is a great offensive football team we played," Holtz said, "and to hold them to three points in the second half is rather incredible. I don't think anybody thought that we would play so well on defense. I thought we would play very well on defense." 
Holtz knew what nobody else did because he spent the two weeks before the Miami game overseeing the Irish defense and preparing it for its biggest test of the season. He did not throw out the defensive 
DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 

Manufacturers Bank will be on campus to present career opportunities in Commercial Lending 
Tuesday October 30, 1990 7:00pm to 9:00pm Alumni Room Morris Inn 
Please see the Placement Office for further details 

Frank Pastor 
Associate Sports Editor 
scheme crafted by defensive coordinator Gary Darnell. Instead, he worked with Darnell during the week and focused on turning up the intensity at practice. 
"We worked very hard the last two weeks," Holtz said, "and the players responded. I thought we made a lot more progress than people envisioned, and our pass defense wasn't far away from being very good than what people would be led to believe." 
"With Coach Holtz coming to practice (on the defensive side of the field), it definitely helped us get motivated more," said outside linebacker Scott Kowalkowski, who forced a third-quarter fumble by Hurricane fullback Steve McGuire at the Miami 25. "We had a pretty much business-as-usual week, and we got our tackling down better. We didn't have many missed mental assignments, and it really paid off." 
More importantly, Notre Dame's defense forced four Miami turnovers and made impressive goal-line stands in the first and fourth quarters to halt the HurriCanes' potent scoring attack. 
Field cornerback Todd Lyght made perhaps the biggest defensive play of the game when he intercepted Erickson's pass for Lamar Thomas at the Irish eight-yard line with ten minutes remaining in the game and Notre Dame clinging to a 22-20 lead. 
Nose tackle Chris Zorich and outside linebacker Andre Jones chased Erickson out of the pocket, and he forced a throw downfield where Thomas had slipped at the 15. 
"Our front three got good pressure on Erickson," Lyght said, "and he was looking for the open zone. We put in coverage that they hadn't seen before and that kept them off balance." 
"We score there and kick a field goal, we're right back on top again," Dennis Erickson said. "Instead, we throw an interception and they take the ball down and score. That's obviously the turning point in the game." 
It also was something Holtz planned for in preparing his pass defense for Miami's aerial attack. Erickson completed 20 of 36 attempts for 355 yards in the game, but his two interceptions proved costly. 
"We took Todd Lyght and moved him on the inside guy and played a lot of man-to-man on Todd," Holtz said. "We put a lot of pressure on Todd, and we put a lot of pressure on (short cornerback) Greg Lane. I thought they responded very well." 
Lyght led all Irish defenders with eight total tackles, including six unassisted. Backfield mates Greg Davis and Reggie Brooks added five apiece. 
Davis shut down Miami's final scoring chance when he knocked the ball loose from running back Leonard Conley at the Irish five and Stonebreaker pounced on the loose ball at the two. 
The Irish defense proved especially stingy once the Hurricanes moved inside the Notre Dame 10-yard line. 
An early-fourtb quarter, 72-yard Miami drive stalled when Erickson misfired three consecutive times from the Irish eight. Carlos Huerta converted a 25-yard field goal to pull the Hurricanes to within 22-20. 
The Notre Dame defense limited running backs McGuire and Conley to 91 yards in the game, or 253 less than they gained two weeks earlier against Florida State. 
We played the run very well up front," said Holtz. ··our secondary played well, but we felt we had to stop the run with the six-man front. We have played well up front. That's what I said all along. We just have to take this to another level." 
HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT UNNERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 
B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over 1,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'11 have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACfLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional 
growth through dividends. CREF's variable annuity offers opportunities for growth through four different investment accounts, each managed with the long-term perspective essen­tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account The CREF Money Market Account The CREF Bond Market Account The CREF Social Choice Account 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 
10 FIND OUT MORE 
Our experienced retirement counselors will be happy to answer your questions and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage some $85 billion in assets. 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it. sm 
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money . 

-----~--------~---------------------~-~ 
Tuesday, October 30, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORDLECTURE CIRCUIT 

Tuesday ACROSS 33 Calculating 61 Man or Wight instruments 
62 Domingo is one1 Procreate 

4 p.m. Lecture: "World Poverty: the 1990 World De­34 Lyric poem 
63 Daredevil5 Fragrance 

velopment Report," Jacques van der Gaag, World Bank, 36 Former baseball Knievel10 El-, Spanish
Washington. D.C. Hoom 121, Law School. manager comes 
64Aisohero 
to a President's 
65 British noble 13 Seed covering mother

4. 5 p.m. Lecture: "Using Hesume Expert," Marilyn 
family
40 Inner: Prefix 

Hice, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. 14 Famous 
66 Withered
41 Socially

Can~er and Placement Services Conference Room. 15 Auger 
superior

16 Songstress 
42 Wings for Amor 

4:30 p.m. Lecture: "Neurogenetics of Membrane Ex­comes to DOWN 
43 Blood-cell

citability in Drosophila," Barry Ganetzky, University of novelist 
1 Dieter's lunch 
deficiencies

Wisconsin-Madison. Hoom 283, Galvin Life Science Center. 19 Chemical suffix 
2 Goddess of 45 Cistern20 Rake peace
47 Old card game 

6:30 p.m. Lecture: "Conducting an Effective Mail Cam­21 Foolish 
3 Gone up 
48 Usual method 

paign," Jeff Rice, assistant director of Career and Place­
22 Principle mass 4 Annex 
of cell division 

ment Services. Room 124, Hayes-Healy. of a tooth 
5"--for 24 Ship's record tennis?" 
52 Track of a tiger 
55 Alleviate

7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Perspectives on Homosexuality and 
25 One, in Nantes 6 Scoundrel 
56 A day in marzo

the Church," Father Richard McCormick, professor of 
26 Marine mollusk 7 ASiouan
57 Guitarist comes 30 Solemn assent to actor aMalde­
Christian ethics, department of theology. Hesburgh Li­
brary Auditorium. Sponsored by many departments and 
(seasickness)

units of the University. 
9 Ending with ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE lime or lemon 

,.. 
-:o=-r.:-r.:~ 10 Fugue finale 

IN 1"-'i 01'\N\ON, '«£ \)()~1; il£.'10\£ NtARL'i £1\\Cl\..lG\-\ 
SC\£NIW\C R£.5HR~ TO 
F\N\)ING f\ CIJRE. toR 
J£RK'S. 
~~~ 

-.: 
" 


"I'm sorry ... try the wizard up the road. I just used my last heart and brain." CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
NOW \\-\15 MIG\-\\ Cr-.IJS£ ...Tlir..T '5 GOOIL 

OPEN 'tl\0£ ... 01'£!'1. WIDE ... 
SOt.\~ SLI@T 1)\S\.OMF()R\... ... 1-\0l~ REf\\.. 'STILl. ... 
I 
M
~~ ___ L: 
,tv,...,. 


Aardogs 



4~=-+-;:=-! 11 Teheran is its MENUS capital 
29 Icelandic epic .-.::-+::+"-! 12 Erase 30 ImitateNotre Dame 15 Game like keno 31 Plateau 17 Hibernia 32 Harrow's rival 
Oven Fried Chicken 

18Amati or 33 Large continent Make Your Own Burrito Bar Stradivari 
35View Garden Veg. Quiche -:'-t'::=-t::-E-1 23 Melody 37 Shark's Baked Chicken with Herbs 
-=+::+:--E-1 24 Gift for a 13th hanger-on 38 Hodgepodge
1~m~-~~ anniversary 
~ 26 Sanctions 39 Western org. wrongdoing 44 Run off with a -:-+=+:--1-::-l 27 Create a lovt~r pandowdy •s Eyeshades ..:......L..:....L:...;.J...;:...J 28 Christmas carol 48 Crown of Osiris 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKE£1 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

48 Burgundy wine center 49 Strainer 50 Lazy person 51 Advance obliquely 52 Narrow opening 53 Cuban's monetary unit 
54 Capital of Norway 55 Serf in Ethel red's day 58 Salt Lake City athlete 59 Guided 60 Plural ending 
--~ 

Sports
oa~ 24 Tuesday, October 30, 1990 
ND, in 'classic,' defeats Miami 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
It was the fmal battle in the long war between Notre Dame and Miami. The teams fought this battle on the field, and it turned out to be a classic. 
The Irish edged the Hurricanes 29-20 before the usual crowd of 59,075 in Notre Dame Stadium to mark the con­clusion of college football's most heated rivalry of the last decade. 
The Irish improved to 5-1 and moved a step closer to playing for the national championship on New Year's Day, while the Hurricanes fell to 4-2 and saw their hopes for a second straight title evapo­rate. 
"It's not who can win the title but who's left," Notre Dame Coach Lou Holtz said. "It's like getting up in the morning and reading the obituary column. You're happy if you're not in it. This is a great game, a great series. It's why you come to Notre Dame, why you come to Miami, to play this type of game." 
Notre Dame still holds the edge over Miami since the two first met in 1955, but the teams developed a rivalry through the 1980s that will be hard to match. The winner of the Notre Dame­Miami game has won the national championship for the past three sea­sons. 
A scheduling decision made years ago-long before this became such a heated rivalry-resulted in the termina­tion of the series in 1990. 
"We'd like to keep playing them," Erickson said. "As I've said before, you've got two great programs involved and it's a shame it's over." 
Junior Heisman Trophy candidate Raghib Ismail led Notre Dame's offen­sive attack, and the Irish defense stopped Miami when it counted in the second half. 
Ismail, who left the game briefly in the 
second quarter with what was later 
diagnosed as a low blood sugar count, 
ran for 100 yards on 13 carries, caught 
one pass for 24 yards and returned a 
kickoff 94 yards for a touchdown. He 
finished with 268 all-purpose yards. 
"He's the best football player in the 
country," Holtz said. 
Notre Dame rallied from a 17-16 
halftime deficit and controlled the sec­
ond half, holding Miami to just three 
points. The Hurricanes had the ball for 
just over eight minutes and had three 
turnovers in the second half. 
"You just can't make the mistakes we 
made in the second half and expect to 
win," Erickson said. "Notre Dame con­
trolled the ball in the third quarter and 
it really paid off for them." 
Said Miami quarterback Craig 
Erickson, "They came out in the second 
half and played good, consistent football. 
We didn't. We made mistakes." 
see MIAMI I page 19 

Rocketin' Raghib Ismail 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey Raghib Ismail sprints down the sideline for a 22-yard gain in the fourth quarter vs Miami. 
Rocket racks up the all-purpose yards 
rushingyards on 10 carries marked

By FRANK PASTOR 
Ismail's third career 100-yard rushing

Associate Sports Editor 
game. His previous high was 108 yards in last year's Orange Bowl victory over

When Notre Dame won the coin toss 
Colorado.

Saturday night in Pitt Stadium, it deferred "I didn't really help out too much as farto the second half. 
as our offense was concerned," he saidRaghib Ismail waited until the fourth modestly. "We just weren't getting thequarter, when he exploded for 109 of his rhythm, and I was definitely missing." 

career-high 116 rushing yards, including a The Irish offense struggled for three76-yard touchdown run that put away the quarters, compiling only 17 points and
upstart Panthers in Notre Dame's 31-22 
210 total yards against a Pittsburgh de­victory. 
fense that kept several Notre Dame

"Rocket just gave us a spark," Irish head 
drives alive with senseless unsports­coach Lou Holtz said, "there's no doubt 

manlike conduct penalties. 

about it. He's really an exceptional football The Panthers held nearly a two-to-oneplayer." 
advantage in time of possession duringIsmail gained 214 all-purpose yards in the final stanza, but Notre Dame picked leading second-ranked Notre Dame to its sixth win of the season. The 116 

see ROCKET I page 20 

Irish not pretty in win over Pitt 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It wasn't pretty by any stretch of the 
imagination, but Notre Dame still 
earned its sixth victory of the season on 
Saturday, beating Pittsburgh 31-22 and 
moving to No. 2 in the Associated Press 
poll as Auburn dropped two places to 
No. 4 after barely edging Mississippi 
State 17-16. 
While the Irish win was never really 
in doubt on the scoreboard, with Notre Dame taking an early lead and never looking back, two Panther touchdowns in the last five and a half minutes, combined with a number of Irish mis­cues, made for some messy football. The game was marred with penalties, an out-of-rhythm Irish offense and a stellar day for Pitt quarterback Alex Van Pelt, who threw for 384 yards on a career high 37 completions. 
The Panthers, typically a tough team for the Irish to beat (they've won three of the last five), deserve much of the credit. As Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz pointed out after the game, Pittsburgh exposed the Irish defensive weaknesses while confusing the Notre Dame offense with unpredictable cover­age. 
"Pitt played awfully well against us," said Holtz. "The (Notre Dame} defense carried the team for 50 minutes. I would have been perfectly happy if the game had ended 17-7." 
Holtz can blame Rocket Ismail for changing that score, which lasted for most of the second half after a Craig Hentrich field goal midway through the third quarter. With less than eight min­utes left in the fourth quarter, Ismail followed a Rod Culver block and ex­ploded through the right side of the Panther offensive line, scampering 76 yards into the endzone for the most ex­citing play of the day. 
The touchdown, which was the longest run of Ismail's career, created a 24-7 cushion that Van Pelt and the Panthers spent the next seven minutes trying desperately to deflate. Sparked by Van Pelt's 14 straight completions, Pitt marched 80 and 73 yards and scored on both of its last two posses­sions, only to have Notre Dame inter­rupt the showing with an impressive 4 7 -yard drive and touchdown of its own that prevented the game from being any closer. 
Nine Panther receivers combined to 
catch Van Pelt's bullets, with five of 
them tallying 45 or more yards. But the 
opportunistic Irish defense held Pitt to 
just 84 yards rushing and made the big 
plays when it needed it. Those big plays 
included a Todd Lyght interception in 
the endzone, a fumble forced by Chris 
Zorich and recovered by Devon 
McDonald, and another interception by 
Donn Grimm deep in Notre Dame terri­
see PITT/ page 19 
Hype for big games too prevalent among media 
This is what Bob Smizik had to have little or no control over their coaches and, like say about the Notre Dame-Miami those coaches, are willing to achieve victory at almost game in the Oct. 23 edition of any cost." The Pittsburgh Press: So what does all this say about the media? That we 
"Nobody asked me, but the will go to almost any length to sell newspapers? In shame of college football grows some cases, perhaps. daily. The latest example of how . . . . 
putrid the sport has become took More distressmg, however, IS t~e dis~onte~tment place Saturday at one of its Frank Pastor among some members of today s media With our Assoc Sports Editorfundamental responsibility of informing the public. We . · . d . feel the need to "color" stories to make them more
supposed shrmes, Notre Dame. Police stood guar m . t f t th d ft t th f th
the tunnel to the dressing ~n ~res mg o e rea er, o en a e expense o e rooms at Notre Dame Stadium, obviously to prevent ~~ s. "d ·r . 1 t" d t l f ht 
brawling between Miami and Notre Dame players. eroi s, recrm mg vw a IOn~ an unne Ig_ s What does that say about the players on these teams? attrac_t more readers !han. do simple game stor~es, At least that some of them are nothing more than especi_all_Y w~en the_y mvolve N_otr~ Dame. T-shirts thugs, recruited to university life solely because of proclaimmg, Catholics vs. ConVIcts never make the their size and/or athletic ability. And what does it say final _box score, but _they almost always make the about the coaches? Not only that they cannot control headlines, not to me~bon ~ great de_al of money. . their players, but they probably contributed to the What we are _dealing With here IS. hype. Hype_ IS a high state of agitation with their rhetoric. And what d~ngerous. tool m the hands ~f a ~ter, not ~nlike. a does it say about the university presidents? That they disproportionate amount of leisure time for a JUvenile delinquent. 
We are living in an age where publication, unfor­tunately, connotes authority. There is something aesthetically alluring about newsprint that calls attention to what is often nothing more than the opinions of a single observer. All too often, we are willing to accept this view as the final word on the subject. 
The media may not have created the "Hate Miami" hype which has pervaded this campus every fall since Jimmy Johnson unmercifully ran up the score in the Hurricanes' 58-7 romp over Gerry Faust's obviously overmatched '85 Irish squad, but we have played a central role in fostering its growth. 
Five years after that game, Johnson is coaching the Dallas Cowboys, Faust is coaching at Akron, and the players from both teams have moved on. Yet the hype remains. Why? Ask the media. Ask Smizik. When Lou Holtz took over the Notre Dame head coaching reigns in '86, he harbored no hard feelings towards the University of Miami. He was aware of the bloodletting a 
see MEDIA I page 14 





