
VOL. XXIII NO. 98 TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 1990 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ortega accepts loss to Chamorro in national election 
Chamorro captures 55.2 percent 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) Chamorro had 633,357 votes, -President Daniel Ortega as­or 55.2 percent, to 468,040, or sured the world Monday that 40.8 percent, for Ortega, the the Sandinistas will accept the Supreme Electoral Council said. voters' verdict and surrender The coalition also won a major­power, after more than a ity in the National Assembly. decade, to an opposition al­Mrs. Chamorro is to take of­liance formed only six months fice April 25 and the transition ago. could be difficult, given the bad 
"We leave victorious because blood between winners and the Sandinistas have sacrificed, losers. spilled blood and sweat, not to "It's going to be a bit harder cling to government posts, but than the normal transition," to bring Nicaragua something said Alfredo Cesar, one of Mrs. denied since 1821," he said in a Chamorro's closest advisers dramatic dawn speech broad­and a former leader of the Con­cast nationwide. tra rebels. "That means the 
Ortega spoke hours after it two sides ... will sit down and was clear the electoral tide was make sure the transition is ac­
.against him and Violeta de complished in a peaceful man­Chamorro, publisher of the op­ner." position newspaper La Prensa, There was elation at the would be the next president of White House. "In this year of this battle-scarred nation political change, democracy which has in the past decade won another victory," President become one of the poorest in Bush said in a statement, and the Western Hemisphere. officials said lifting the U.S. 
"People wanted a change," economic embargo was under she said as she headed for a discussion. victory celebration at her cam­Ronald Reagan, in whose paign headquarters. administration the Contras 
With 82 percent of the precincts counted, Mrs. 
see ELECTION I page 4 
Malloy Czechoslovakia out of the Red 
FRENSTAT, Czechoslovakia of the 73,500 Soviet military 1956 to put down an anti-Stal­committee on .•.•._. (AP) -A brass band struck up personnel scheduled for com­inist uprising. the "Internationale" on Monday pletion next year. Before the withdrawal began, BY MIKE TRUPPA as the Red Army began leaving A second train, laden with 33 the Soviet Union had 1,220
News Writer 
Czechoslovakia 22 years after it armored vehicles, left a few tanks, 2,505 armored vehicles, arrived to crush a reform hours later from the Domasov 77 combat aircraft and 146 he­Acting on a Faculty Senate · movement. nad Bystrici station near a Red licopters in Czechoslovakia, in
committee's recommenda:~ 
Karel Micek of the Civic Fo­Army base at Libava in eastern addition to the 73,500 soldiers.
tions, University Presidetlt rum said the presence of Soviet Czechoslovakia. Soon after the first trainFather Edward Malloy has troops had meant "empty It is the first time the Kremlin rolled toward the border, theappointed a Committ~e on shelves in stores, polluted wa­has removed its soldiers from official news agencv CTK re­Women at Notre Dame. 
ter, an occasional fight in the the territory of a Warsaw Pact ported that Soviet-Czechoslovak According to a University pub and a reminder that we are ally. military maneuvers would be press release, the 12~mem­not a free country." Hungary is near agreement held next month. 
ber President's committee Kolman said ''Their main problem was with the Soviets on a similar "The Czechoslovak People'swill "advise the President dent's Committee that they were here," said accord, but no deals have been Army and the Central Group of and Provost on polleies re­address probl~ms ·· Micek, whose group played a struck with Poland or East Troops of the Soviet Army will lated to the overall academic students and stafl';.. 
central role in the peaceful rev­Germany, the other Soviet allies be held" March 1-4 in western and social environment for ing educational olution that ousted the Com­in Europe that are hosts to Red and northern Bohemia March women at the University.,. "raise co:ns<:iOlllSttess munist Party from exclusive Army troops. 1-4, it said, quoting the Defense Assistant Provost and levels" to sexual naJras.smten 
power in November. Soviet soldiers remained in Ministry.
Committee Chairperson win be a major 
22 Soviet T-62 tanks loaded Czechoslovakia after a Warsaw It was not clear whether the Eileen Kolman said the committee, said Koun;an. 
on flatcars left the northern Pact invasion crushed the re­announcement's timing was a committee will recommend She said forms ·'-·-·"'"··'"'' town of Frenstat, beginning a formist "Prague Spring" of ways to improve what she ·harassment include re]lfOrted ,;;., I negotiated, three-stage pullout 1968. They entered Hungary in 
called "a chilly environment" instances of sexist lattm:Jla~e for women at Notre Dame. in ·some University 
Kolman said she expects rooms as well as publka~ the committee to focus on tions such as the recent faculty-related aspects of Scholastic article entitled··· this environment. ''l'm not "Estrogen," which she.de­sure everyone believes that scribed as "a very sexist and Notre Dame will be better demeaning presentation." with more diversity (among Weaver, who bas taught at< the faculty)," she said, Kthe Notre Dame, said she was percentages of women fac­surprised that "gender~in-' ulty does not represent the elusive ·language," a struc;;; . percentage of women avail­.ture other universities $Up': able in some disciplines." ported long ago, stilL~met 
The committee will em­resistance" in University ph'asize the problems for classrooms. · ··· women faculty, as identified Faculty Senate recon;l~L . in the earlier Faculty Senate tttendations on adequate ·· Committee on the Status of compensation for·. stati Will Women. said Kolman. also be considered by the 
Faculty Senate Committee President's. Committee .. K.ob Co-Chairperson Ellen 
mann9ted. . . ···•·•·••·
Weaver, who is also Assis· Kolman said she believes tant Chairperson of the tbe ·problem for Theology Department, said "has ve~y filUch that, according to some non~ the Uruversity' .. ·. tenured women faculty slLU'­With the·na:trilarc veyed by her committe_,,. these problems include nar· row conceptions of proper The Observer/Bill Mowle 
Mary, You Light Up My Life
classroom attire and disiin· 
tttrest towards research n,v. .. '......... ,.,.;.;.,.••.,.•.,. 
A new street light that was installed near the Grotto to help make the place brighter and safer at night. 
women. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Challenger' shows need for media ethics 
Sunday night view­
ers across America, 
including myself, 
tuned into yet another 
television classic: 
"Challenger." 
For three gripping 
hours we were able to 
see the events leading 
up to the 1986 explo­
sion of the Space 
Shuttle Challenger. 
Rest 
assured, however, that the makers did not 
show us footage of the actual explosion. I 
imagine most viewers would agree that once 
was enough. Or would they? 
American audiences appear to have a per­
verse desire to watch disasters and other 
horrible events recounted on television 
miniseries. 
For example, who can forget the in-depth 
look into the mind of super-killer Ted 
Bundy? I'll bet that more Americans would 
see "Fatal Vision" than the State of the 
Union. 
The "Challenger" show bothered me 
because now every time I hear the name 
"Challenger" I'll think of a cheesy television 
program. 
I used to think of the moment my sopho­
more year in high school when my French 
teacher, astonished, told us about the disas­
ter. The show has altered my memory of the 
disaster. 
Well. aside from my own feelings about 
the program, I am most offended by this 
show and others like it, because of the 
effect it must have upon the families of the 
deceased. 
When I found out they were making a television drama about the "Challenger," I read that the families were completely opposed to the idea. Who can blame them? What right does the television industry have to exploit a disaster just to bolster ratings? 
I tried to imagine sad events in my own life exploited on national television. I would guess that the families feel violated. 
The saddest thing is that no one cares about the rights of the family. With or without consent of the families involved, American television continues to make docudramas. 
I understand that a television miniseries will be made about the Stuart murder case in Boston. I am curious what dirt writers can dig up about the Stuart family and the Stuarts' marriage. But what about Carol Stuart's family? Must they relive the murder of their daughter and grandson? 
The "Challenger" and a possible Stuart murder program are disturbing because the writers show no regard for the rights of the families involved. 
Even if these dramas might ask us to question NASA's decision-making policies or the actions of Boston Police Department, I think this form of media is inappropriate and exploitive, rather than informative. 
The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
Systems Gilbert Gomez Cesar Capella  News Greg Lucas Paul Pearson  Production Wendy Cunningham Jeanne Blasi  
Viewpoint  Accent  Ad Design  
John Cronin  Paige Smoron  Val Poletto  
Jeanne Blasi  Joe Zadrozny  Anita Covelli  
Terri Walsh  Mary Sain  
Sports  Jeanne Naylor  
Scott Brutocao  Graphics  Joy Harris  
Bradford J. Boehm  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000)  IS  published Monday  
The C-1 student parking available around the Stadium will be altered slightly as of Wednesday, Feb. 28. Two rows of student park­ing will become faculty/staff parking due to un­


through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1S a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduct1on nghts are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 27. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
20 30 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
r:<""Xl

®© ts<-8 [;§] ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST Frederick Wilhelmson, Professor of Politics 

Government Career Day will be held Wednesday and Philosophy at the University of Dallas will be speak­from 12-4 pm in the CCE. Government representatives ing tonight at 8 p.m. in Galvin Auditorium on "The Familywill be available to talk with students about permanent as the Basis of Political Society." The lecture is cospon­and summer opportunities. Sponsored by Career and sored by the Graduate Student Union and Student Gov­Placement Services. 
ernment's Intellectual Life Commission and by the Year of the Family. 

The Women's Care Center phone-a-thon 
continues tonight form 6-10 pm in the Development Of­
Sophomore Literary Festival. Sara Vogan, au­

fice, 2nd Floor Administration Building. 
thor of "Scenes form the Homefront," and Melissa Pritchard, author of "Spirit Seizures," will be giving read­

Midterm Madness: How to Reduce Test Anxiety 
ings of their works at 8:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library is a workshop to be given by Wendy Settle of the Auditorium.

University Counseling Center tonight from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
Senior Formal Bid Sales are today and Wednes­day on 2nd floor LaFortune (NO) and Thursday in Le­The Year of the Family subcommittee "Families in Mans Lobby (SMC).

Crisis" invites adult children of divorced, separated, wid­owed or single parents to a meeting tonight at 7 pm in 
Carol McCollis '82, a representative from the

Lewis Hall to discuss relevant issues as a student at Notre Eucharistic Missionaries will be at the Center for SocialDame. 
Concerns today and Wednesday. Stop by and learn about this New Orleans based post-grad. program.

Security Awareness Days, part I begins with a panel discussion on "Personal Rights and Responsibili­
All campus clubs and organizations are re­

ties" tonight at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge at SMC. The minded that Student Activities Registration packets arediscussion features a county prosecutor, the Sex Offense due Wednesday, February 28. Forms may be picked upInvestigator of South Bend, SMC Security, and counselors. 
and returned outside of Room 207 LaFortune.

Notre Dame women are especially invited. Study in Latin America with the Center for Global The Northern Ireland Awareness Group will Education. Information available Wedneseday 9:30 ­
hold its monthly meeting tonight at 7:30 in Room 105 noon in the Library Concourse and at a noon lunch at the 
O'Shaughnessy. 
Center for Social Concerns. 
NATIONAL 

Perrier said Monday the recall of the 160 A homicide suspect who saw himself pro­million bottles of sparkling water it had on the market filed on the network television show "America's Most around the world was more than 90 percent complete. Wanted" surrendered Monday to Los Angeles police. Withdrawing of Perrier's familiar green bottles began James Edward Noel showed up unannounced at the police Feb. 14 when the water was found to contain the chemical department's Central Station. '"I believe you might be benzene. Perrier said the problem that prompted the re­looking for me. I want to give myself up,"' Officer Bill call had been isolated at the gas ftltration level of produc­Frio, a police spokesman, said Noel told officers at the tion and that, after tests by independent experts, no con­front desk. Noel, a 45-year-old day laborer who was tamination or pollution of the company's spring in profiled on the Fox Network's Sunday night show, was Vergeze, France, has been found. taken into custody on a no-bail murder warrant. 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE 
Closings tor February 26, 1990 
Volume in shares 
148.91 Million

NYSE Index 

derground utility construction. Although previous 
181.36 1} 1.91 

adjustments were made to allow more fac­
S&P Composite A

ulty/staff parking, those rows did not meet the 
328.67 1if 4.52 

needs for spaces, said Phil Johnson, assistant di­
Dow Jones Industrials 

rector of Security. Johnson said that many rows 
2,602.48 • 38.29

of parking south of the Stadium are still avail­able for commuter students. Precious Metals 
Gold f-$0.70 to $415.00/ oz. 
Silver+ 3.3¢ to $5.240/ oz. 

Source: AP 

Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer 
page 3 

East Germans apply for first gov't benefits 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -Several thousand East Germans applied Monday for the first benefits their government has ever given the unemployed, whose ranks may swell dramatically as the nation moves toward capital­ism. 
Labor officials said the num­ber of applicants was much smaller than anticipated, but noted that economic reforms expected to cost hundreds of thousands of jobs have yet to be made. 
At the moment, East Germany has a severe labor shortage be­cause skilled workers continue to leave for West Germany. In­dustrial production has slowed and the nation is threatened with financial collapse. 
West Germany has offered to bail out the East Germans by making its strong Deutschmark the currency of both countries, but only on the condition that East Germany adopt a market economy. 
No final decision on monetary union and the economic re­forms is planned until after East Germany's first free elec­tions March 18, but a decisive shift toward Western economic practices is expected soon afterward. 
Economists say more compet­itive Western methods will force many East German facto­ries to close or lay off employ­ees, which could increase unemployment among the 9 million workers to 15 percent in a few months. 
Finance Ministry officials proposed Monday that laws be altered to create more incentive for private enterprise by reduc­ing income tax rates that re­quire entrepreneurs to pay up to 95 percent of their profits to the government. 
Lower taxes also would en­courage formation of small and medium-sized businesses, which could help reduce unemploy­ment. 
At the weekly negotiations with opposition groups, De­fense Minister Theodor Hoff­mann said reducing the size of East Germany's army would only increase the number of unemployed. 
Neues Deutschland, the Communist Party newspaper, proposed Monday that compul­sory military service be ended in both Germanys and that a reunited Germany be demilita­rized. 
East Germany has experi­enced some unemployment throughout its 40-year history, but authorities would not at­knowledge the problem because it contradicted Communist ide­ology. 
On Monday, Labor Agency of­fices began taking applications for financial aid to the unem­ployed under regulations adopted Feb. 9. 
They provide monthly pay­ments of three-quarters of pre­vious income, made up of 500 East German marks (about $100 at the official exchange rate) from the government and a contribution from the appli­cant's last employer. 
Labor Agency statistics indi­
see GERM. I page 7 


Delegates attending the opening session of informal talks on the future of Cambodia listen to Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas' speech in Jakarta Monday. 
~~~t~ pub ~~m~.!~~t~..~!nt~~wl)':.~,aying <ongs
News Writer 
PUB Tuesday, which stands for Providing Unalcoholic Bev­erages, is set to transform the decor of the-Chameleon Room at Saint Mary's into that of a pub, with the exception that no alcoholic beverages will be served. 
The event is slated to take place tonight at 9 p.m. in the Chameleon Room of Haggar Hall in a program sponsored by the Wellness group at Saint Mary's. 
Students tend bar, serving non-alcoholic drinks such as: pina coladas, strawberry daiquiris, slushes, juices, sodas, nuts and pretzels will also lend from Jimmy Buffett, Don to the atmosphere of an actual McLean, and Bruce Springsteen English pub, said Sue Medley, as well as telling jokes and hu­assistant coordinator of the morous stories, according to Wellness Program. Huskey's public relations. 
Plastic cups that can be re-Saint Mary's was a recipient deemed for a free drink will be of the Wellness grant by the passed out in the dining hall FIPSE Fund, an acronym of today, Medley said. Student Ac-For the Improvement of Post tivities Board will be providing Secondary Education, accord-food. ing to Medley. 
Brian Huskey, a folk-rock "Wellness is a multifaceted songster/humorist with two al-approach to optimal health bums and one EP, will be pro-based on the premise that indi­viding entertainment. Huskey victuals need to take responsi­has opened for Three Dog bility for their emotional, phys­Night, The Band, Leon Russell, ical, and spiritual well-being," and Kris Kristofferson, accord-according to a statement of ing to a press release from the Wellness goals. entertainer. 

Ca111pus Ministry and You 

0f\!'PUS

-----------------------MINISTRY­
THE FORCE IS WITH YOU 
The force that through the green fuse drives the flower Drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees Is my destroyer. And I am dumb to tell the crooked rose My youth is bent by the same wintry fever. 
The force that drives the water through the rocks 
Drives my red blood; that dries the mouthing springs 
Turns mine to wax. 
And I am dumb to mouth unto my veins 
How at the mountain spring the same mouth sucks. 
The hand that whirls the water in the pool 
Stirs the quicksand; that ropes the blowing wind 
Hauls my shroud sail. 
And I am dumb to tell the hanging man 
How of my clay is made the hangman's lime. 
-Dylan Thomas 
It's been a pretty mild winter. The sense has been that of a season promising to deliver, but then it quick­ly changes its mind and dumps a ton of snow. Then, again, begins the promise. The days are getting longer. Joggers run later and later each day, and the sky grows itself more pink and purple hues than were at the wed­ding in Steel Magnolias. Our whole hemisphere turns to the sun for vitality, energy and warmth. And so do we. 
It's the beginning of lent. The word means "spring­time". As all our physical reality turns to nature and love, so do our spirits. We turn from distance toward closeness; from isolation toward community; from sin toward repentance and reconciliation; from limitation toward fullness. 
We need some pretty dramatic assistance in turning from sole self or personal interest to concern and com­passion for others. We are works of love with a nature that always seeks out true love. Sometimes we find it. More often, we settle for substitutes. 
Lent is a time to turn from those substitutes to the truth of what love really is. Spring is considered the season of love precisely because all of our being yearns and longs for love. Our whole being-at its most devel­oped stages -cries out to love and be loved. This is especially true as spring/lent approaches. To make sense of those yearnings -at their best -we also need to expand our definition of love, and then turn toward the new definitions. 
Love is "the force that through the green fuse drives the flower, the water through the rocks and my red blood." Lent and springtime are both times to turn to love. But to turn to love, we need to turn away from what love is not. We turn away from sin and death and a limited sense of self and turn to life and love and others and God. All of lent, all of springtime, all of life points toward Easter. To say that Jesus rose from the dead gives hope of possibility to those things for which we most yearn: life will never end; life is not limited to time or space or physical being. 
There are at least four ways that we can prepare to celebrate this ultimate mystery of our faith: Prayer and fasting; "giving up"; reconciliation; establishing solidarity with the poor. 
Making some sort of commitment of time spent in prayer makes sense if one has decided to turn to the source of life, because prayer time is spent conscious of God's presence. When we pray, we let God be God for us. We turn our will and our lives over to the care of God, asking only for knowledge of what we are to do and be, and the power to do and be that. 
When we fast, we limit our pleasures, but not for the sake of some pleasure's being limited. Such a misconception has given many segments of the Christian community-deservedly or not -a reputation for being anti-pleasure. More to the point, the Christian community has never accepted pleasure as an end in itself, but as a means to an end beyond itself. The road to holiness does not pass around pleasure, but through it -beyond it. Fasting is a way to remind oneself that pleasure is not the end, and a way to glimpse what lies beyond it. 
The "giving up" idea of lent was originally a way to help in the process of turning away from sin and death and a limited sense of self and turning to life and love and others and God. "Giving ap" is not a way to loose weight or stop a bad habit. It is a way to turn from those things that truly keep us from loving at our fullest: attitudes that block love; selfishness that doesn't go beyond itself; habits that serve self before others or impair healthy growth. Whether its candy or chew or dessert or cheating or gossip or TV or whatever, we don't "give it up" in order to earn some spiritual brownie points but in order to make a sign of and to make real our intent to turn from one way of living and being to another. 

Another opportunity of lent to celebrate our desire and intent to turn to God is through the sacrament of reconciliation. In that sacrament we symbolize and achieve the union with God for which we yearn. We admit our limitations and those things that separate us from God and learn ways to use those same tendencies to grow toward rather than away from the goal of our desires. We are absolved: we end our separation. 
A fourth way is to establish some form of solidarity with the poor. We do this not only because the poor need our care and support and compassion, but also because they are the segment of society with whom we are inClined to feel the least solidarity. Yet the crucial message of Christianity is that we are all one. Rich and poor, heathen and believer, male and female: all are one in God as God is one in Godself. 
The office of Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns invite you to celebrate lent with us today in our offices by fasting before the feast and by establishing or furthering your own solidarity with the poor by using the envelopes provided. We also encour­age your participation in the various worship services of the season, including various reconciliation services and the great celebrations leading up to Easter. But more on all of that later. The force be with you! 
Wednesday, 5 p.m. Ash Wednesday Mass Stepan Center 

Brought to you weekly by the 0111ce of ~llnlstry lnd The Observer 
r-~--.---~.-wr.-~~----------~----------~---.----------------------------------~~----~---------------------­
page 4 
Violeta Barrios de Chamorro 
The United National Opposition (UNO) coalition 
candidate defeated Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega in Sunday's election. 
Age: 60 
Occupation: Publisher of La Prensa, country's only opposition newspaper. 
Family: Widow of "Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, 
crusading publisher whose assassination in 
January 1978 sparked the revolution that over­
threw Somoza dictatorship. She has four children, two who supported 
her in the election and two who IUJ)pCitad the Sandinistas'. 
Politics: No firm ties to any party; few specific policies announced during campaign. Coalition that backs her ranges from right-wing to liberal, brought together mainly by opposition to Sandinista rule. 
History: Took over La Prensa after husband's assassination; carried on opposition to Somoza regime; served on ruling junta for nine months after Somoza's overthrow; resigned to protest Sandinistas' betrayal of democratic ideals of the revolution; fought Sandinista censorship and closing of La Prensa. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
were organized and went to war, issued a statement saying "The people of Nicaragua and the cause of democracy have won an impressive and impor­tant victory." 
Under the Sandinistas, Nicaragua became a self-pro­claimed revolutionary state and adopted portions of Marxist and Leninist ideology to remake its economic and soeial struc­tures. It won strong support from the Soviet Union and Cuba, and was accused by the United States of trying to fo­ment a Communist revolution in neighboring El Salvador. 
The Sandinista loss to the opposition United National Op­position, known as UNO, which favors Western-style represen­tative government, followed by months the movement toward democracy in several Soviet­aligned nations of East Europe and democratization in the So­viet Union itself. 
Both Ortega and Mrs. Chamorro presented themselves as candidates of national rec­onciliation and economic recov­ery, Ortega because he believed the United States would recog­nize his victory and Mrs. Chamorro because she had Washington's support. 
She promised economic re­covery to a nation that suffered 
from  a  decade  of  war,  U.S.  
economic  embargo  and  poor  
management.  

Ortega and the Sandinistas mounted a carefully orches­trated campaign that ended with a rally attended by an es­timated 300,000 people. The man who marched into Managua as a victorious young revolutionary in July 1979 had not expected to lose, and the first hours of the stunning upsflt were tense. 
Former President Jimmy Carter was among thousands of international election ob­servers who monitored the vot­ing. 
Defense Minister Humberto 
Ortega, the president's brother, and Interior Minister Tomas Borge, who controls the police, had suggested they might not give an opposition government control of those forces. 
Daniel Ortega said he spoke for his party and government, however, in promising to honor the results of Sunday's election. 
"I want to tell all Nicaraguans and all the nations of the world that the president of Nicaragua and the government will respect and submit itself to the popular mandate," he said. 
Cesar, one of Mrs. Chamorro's closest advisers and a former Contra leader, said the new government's "most important problem is the role of the armed forces." 
In her campaign, Mrs. Chamorro advocated reducing the size of the powerful military machine the Sandinistas built with Soviet support. 
Most polls had shown Ortega 
ahead, but the results always 
were in question because many 
people refused to express their 
opinions to strangers. 
I think when it came right down to it, Nicaraguans has just suffered enough. They had suffered too much." 

Tuesday, February 27, 1990
The Observer 
Mr. Havel goes to Moscow 
Czechoslovakian President Vaclav Havel, left, walks with Soviet Vice President Anatoly Lukyanov to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown soldier next to the Kremlin wall on his visit to Moscow Monday. 
-
-

Make the transition 


froiD textbook to checkbook at Co1npuServe 
CompuServe Open House Thesday, February 27 University Club-Upper Lounge 8:00 -10:00 p.m. 
Rob Bertino, Dallas Branch Sales Manager Class of 1985-Former Student Body President 
Mike Quinn, Chicago Branch Sales Manager Class of 1985 

Put the knowledge you've gained to profitable use at the helm of informa­tion technology. FORTUNE 500 companies and government agencies depend upon CompuServe business information services daily for a variety of computer-to-computer applications. 
Account executives and account reps, you're in demand. At CompuServe, account executives and representatives market business applications and support to existing clients and prospects alike. It's a challenge. But the rewards are phenomenal. 
Pay us a visit. Ask questions. We'll give you a taste of the information service industry, and help you identify careers that achieve your goals, as well as ours. If you miss us on campus, ask about CompuServe careers at your college placement office, or send a resume to: 
CompuServe 
Employment Manager P.O. Box 20212 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd. Columbus, OH 43220 

Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer pageS 
Wet winds, weather wreak wreckage in Western Europe 
LONDON (AP) -Gale-force winds struck Western Europe on Monday, tearing down roofs and power lines, disrupting transportation on land, sea and air, and killing at least 13 peo­ple. 
Winds were clocked at 100 mph at Aberporth along the Scottish border, while Leeds in central England reported winds up to 98 mph. 
It was the second big storm to hit Europe since Jan. 25, when 95 people were killed when winds gusted up to 106 mph. Wind speeds in late Jan­uary and February were the strongest for 18 years, averag­ing 15 mph in the last two-week measuring period at Heathrow Airport, the London Weather Center said. 
Flood warnings were posted 
on the north coast of Germany 
and parts of Denmark. and 
high winds disrupted travel in 
the Netherlands and kept fish­
ing boats in port on the English 
Channel coast of France. 
The dead included a driver 
whose double-decker bus hit a 
fallen tree, an elderly man 
killed by a collapsing chimney 
and an elderly woman struck by 
a slate blown from a roof, po­
lice and rescue workers said. 
A police officer on patrol in 
suburban Brussels was killed 
and a colleague was severely 
injured when a tree was blown 
onto their car. In northeastern Damme, Belgium, the roof of the tourism office collapsed under the strains of the winds, killing one worker and heavily injuring another. 
In Ireland, a motorcyclist was killed when a gust blew him off the road; a woman died in Zun­dert, in the southern Nether­lands, when she lost control of her car during the storm. 
Police imposed a 50 mph speed limit in some areas in Britain, and the Automobile As­sociation advised motorists to stay home. Many other traffic accidents were reported in northern Belgium and in the western Netherlands. 
In the Netherlands, 15 people 
were injured, including seven 
who were hurt when a huge 
tent in which they were cele­
brating Carnival collapsed in 
the southern town of Beek, 
Dutch radio reported. 
The winds disrupted ferry service between Ireland and Wales, as well as between the British mainland and the Isle of Wight and Northern Ireland. One Belfast-Liverpool ferry was forced to turn back to port be­cause of high seas. 
In Hull, on Britain's west 
coast, damaged inner lock 
gates at King George Dock pre­
vented two ferries from Rotter­
dam, the Netherlands, and Zee­
brugge, Belgium, with about 
1,000 passengers on board, 
from docking. The ferries were 
Rocky Balboa brought to canvas by a jackhammer 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -It took three guys using a dia­mond-edged power saw and a jackhammer to knock Rocky Balboa off his feet Monday. 
The crew worked for more than two hours to separate the 8 1/2-foot bronze likeness of the city's fictitious boxer from the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, which has re­peatedly insisted it doesn't want the statue. 
A lawyer for "Rocky" creator Sylvester Stallone pledged to fight on to get the statue, a movie prop, a permanent home atop the museum steps. 
In the original "Rocky," which won best picture and best director Academy Awards in 1976, Stallone's Balboa character ran up the museum's stone steps in triumph while training for a fight. 
The Differences Between Gays and Straights 
S lraigfttJ are from normal families, wim JITO"'f moral vafiW aM900rl pattfti.S. 
Gays are from normal fam­Ilies, with strong moral values and good parents. 

?.(a'"l s<rai9li1J wan1 10 swft t!JJwn willi 01tt person in a rrumogamiJUJ refation.sliip. 
Many gays want to settle down with one person In a monogamous relationship. 

sITaiShtJ are, in s•ntral, ktnl, """"'· $Oi"'J, IW(;payi"'f types ofpwpU. 
Gays are, In general, detent, thurch-golng, tiM­paying types or people. 

Straifjfus fw• Uitir famiiiu an4 flillnl "' liaw fami/U.s of Uitir o..,., 
Gays loue their families and want tu haue families ar their o111n.

Straif!lu f•fQ clirln'1 <kost 10 6t swaiffu, Uity ju.n an. 
Gay folies didn't choose to be gay, they just are. 

The statue had been moved to the museum from the Spectrum sports arena for the filming of Stallone's latest "Rocky" movie, "Rocky V." Since filming of "Rocky V" ended here Fri­day, that cleared the way for the movie producers to move Stallone's likeness, at the mu­seum's insistence. 
Using the power saw, the crew from W. Cantano & Sons cut into the statue's concrete base about 12 inches below Rocky's 22-inch feet to get at four prongs anchoring the statue into the concrete. 
After separating the 800­pound statue from the base, workers used a crane to lift it onto a truck. The stub of the concrete base was to be re­moved within hours. 
·ii::~~ !~;~:~~:: ' 
tween stnright people and gay 
people; there are: 
Straight people don't face prejudice, discrimination, and baseless hatted every day. Gay people do. 
Straight people aren't denied jobs, housing, adoption, in­heritance, tax benefits, and other privileges and rights just because they're straight. Gay people are. 
Straight people aren'ttold by churches and society that they are sick, sinful, and unlawful because of something they didn't choose and have no < control over. Gay people are. 
There are more gay students, .. staff, and faculty on these campuses than there are Blacks, Hispanics, or Jews. If you're gay, lesb~. or bi­sexual, we're here for you. ···•.•·. GLND/SMC offers, support, education, and friendship. Write orcall us foT more in­fonnation. 

Cays and Leablana a Notre Dame/St. Maty'•CoU. Pott Office B~Ht llll Notre Dam•, tN46556. 
ot ca11Jameo(l83-42.5'l or Mike (283-2045) 
T1lis ad sponsored by a gay Notre Dame alumnus. 
waiting offshore until high tide Monday night. 
In the port of Antwerp, a river ship sank after a 15-ton crane fell onto the vessel, injur­ing several people. 
Cuts in overhead power lines halted some train traffic in Belgium, the state-owned rail­road company said. 
Two bridges linking the southern and northern parts of the Netherlands were closed because of high winds, police said. 
Thousands of homes in Northern Ireland, the Thames Valley, south Wales and south­western England were without electricity. 
Thirty residents of a senior citizens home in Stockport, near Manchester, were evacu­ated after the roof was blown off during the night, according to Press Association, the do­mestic British news agency. 
Rail service on the main line from Euston Station in London to the northwest was disrupted by downed power lines. British Rail reported scattered cancel­lations, and some trains were restricted to speeds as low as 20 mph because of the winds. 
At London's Heathrow Air­port, many airlines were unable to load catered meals onto air­planes, and passengers were instead offered meals in the de­parture lounges. Authorities 
100miles
Waters where 11 ferries or shipping ?7 disrupted or 0 V 
North Sea 
coastalllood ~ warnings posted · 
Atlantic Ocean 

1OOmph winds;  
power outages;  Ship sunk by falling  
road, rail, air and  crane; ships kept in  
ferry transport  port; ferry and rail  
disrupted; roofs  transport disrupted;  75mph winds; ships  
blown off; at least  buildings collapse;  kept in port; at least  
12 deaths  at least four deaths  three deaths  ~::--,..,...----'  

feared that winds could blow Birmingham Airport, 100 miles over or damage the trucks that to the northwest. lift trays of prepared meals At Amsterdam's Schiphol air­
onto aircraft. port, the Netherlands' flag car­Flights were operating nor­rier KLM suspended 15 interna­mally, but were canceled at tional flights, the airline saicl. 


AP Photo 

5 0 M M E R 5 ~!IES 
GRAPHICS 

Resumes 
25 copies 25 cover sheets 25 envelopes 
$34.50 
Also Available 
Posters Banners Color Copies High Speed Copying Fax 
One and a half miles north of ND and SMC. 52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-6991 
v Check Us Out! 



page 6 
S. African minister responds to charges 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Hesponding to harsh criticism, the defense minister said Monday he had suspended all operations of a secret military unit accused of involvement in the killings of anti-apartheid activists. 
The Civil Cooperation Bureau would cease to function until a judicial committee appointed by President F.W. de Klerk com­pletes an investigation into the bureau's activities. said Defense Minister Magnus Malan. 
Malan, speaking to Parlia­ment in Cape Town, also said that Anton Lubowski, a promi­nent anti-apartheid politician in Namibia who was killed last year, was a paid intelligence agent for the South African De­fense Force. 
South African Police Brig. Floris Mostert has alleged in court documents that he sus­pects the bureau was involved in the Sept. 12 killing of Lubowski, the highest-ranking white member of the South­West Africa People's Organiza­tion, or SWAPO, at the time of his death. 
SWAPO waged a 23-year bush war against South African rule of Namibia, and the organiza­tion will lead the territory to independence March 21. 
Malan told Parliament that Lubowski was a paid agent of the South African military, and "I am assured that he did good work." 
Malan said this was evidence that the South African military would have no reason to act against Lubowski. 
Police are seeking alleged members of the bureau and several former police officers for questioning in Lubowski's death. 
Mostert and The Star news­paper of Johannesburg also al­leged they suspect the bureau is linked to the death of David Webster, a white academic fa­tally shot outside his Johannes­burg home in May. 
The Star reported last week that Malan was aware of the bureau since it was established several years ago and that gen­erals were in charge of it. 
Malan has denied ordering any killings or other criminal activity and said the bureau's role has been to gather intelli­gence both in South Africa and abroad. 
Malan said he would give a sworn statement to the judicial commission investigating alle­gations that the police and the Defense Force were engaged in hit-squad activities. 
Several opposition groups have called on Malan to step down, but he said, "I will not resign over the pressure on my­self and the Defense Force." 
No military officers have been charged or suspended in con­nection with the allegations against the bureau. 
The Star, citing unidentified sources, said the Defense Force used civilian personnel in the bureau, including former police officers, to conceal the mili­tary's attempts to manipulate political affairs. 
Following the newspaper re­ports, the Defense Force ac­knowledged the existence of the bureau and said its annual budget was about $11 million. 
----------------~-----­
Tuesday, February 27, 1990
The Observer 


AP Photo
A rather light moment 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, right, and Czechoslovakian President Vaclav Havel, lett, socialize 
prior to talks in the Kremlin Monday. Havel is on the first day of a two-day visit to the Soviet Union which 
coincides with the first day of the scheduled withdraw! of Soviet troops from Czechoslavakia. 

Journalists observed in Beijing 
BEIJING (AP) -Police have sharply increased surveillance of foreign journalists since lift­ing martial law in Beijing last month, reporters said Monday. 
Correspondents from nearly a dozen news organizations, in­cluding those from the United States, the Soviet Union and Europe, said they have been tailed at least once by plain­clothes police in recent weeks, some even while jogging or shopping. 
"Several (Chinese) contacts have been hauled before the leaders in their (work) units and told, 'We know you had contact with a foreign journal­ist and this must stop,"' said a British reporter. Like the other journalists, he spoke on condi­tion of anonymity for fear of provoking official retaliation against his Chinese friends. 
The British reporter said he had been tailed each of the past three days, and that on one oc­casion plainclothes police tried to photograph him meeting a Chinese friend in a park. 
The next day, police followed 
him to a hotel where he met a 
Chinese acquaintance, and 
three motorcycles and a van 
followed his car from the hotel, 
keeping pace when he acceler­
ated and drove in circles. After 
he dropped off the Chinese 
man, police pursued the man on foot, the reporter said. 
An American reporter who noticed she was being tailed by a man on a bicycle said it made her decide not to visit Chinese friends, "so I guess it's work­ing." 
She and several other re­porters believe the surveillance, which in many cases has been obvious, is intended to discour­age them from normal contacts with Chinese friends or news sources. 
"What we're all terribly con­cerned about is getting a Chi­nese in trouble," said another American reporter who said he and his wife were followed even when they went jogging. 


Come to Sefior Kelly's instead, 
off,cfoft1ft/.> 

for the"Off-Campus Formal! 
March 3rd • 9:30pm-1:30am 
DJ, Nachos and Mucho More, all for the low, low price of... 
$3.00 per ce>-u_ple 
Mike Locascio 287-3087 
Tom Helms 289-3905 
John Krotzer 277-7450 


ADWORKS 

Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Ridiculous bills based on con1mon sense 
(AP)-As fast as you can, re­peat the following five times: A potty parity proposal is pending in Pennsylvania. 
OK. good. If you don't feel just a little silly right now, you may have what it takes to serve in your state legislature. 
You could have the ability to keep a straight face while proposing laws to ban toad licking, soothe nervous chick­ens, pay people to vote, keep cheerleaders off steroids, ex­empt ostrich steaks from sales tax, bring back the whipping post and castrate sex offend­ers. 
Or, perhaps, to give your state its own official State In­sect, State Marmot or State Soil. 
Every one of the above has 
been introduced in at least one 
legislature around the country 
this year, and that's not all. 
West Virginia legislators are 
considering a proposal to give 
lottery tickets to motorists who 
use their seat belts. A Ten­
nessee representative has pro­
posed a measure to encourage 
people to beat up flag burners 
-he wants to reduce the 
penalty for assault in such 
cases to $1. 
A state senator in New Mex­
ico has proposed creating a 
new county -named after 
himself. 
You might be tempted to be­
lieve that all is not sobriety and 
seriousness in America's legis­
latures. But that would be ig­
noring some of the issues fac­
ing elected officials. 
It turns out. for instance, that there are people who get their kicks licking toads. Ac­cording to the U.S. Drug En­forcement Administration, South American cane toads se­crete a hallucinogenic toxin that can get the Iicker as high as a tree frog. 
Legislators in Georgia and South Carolina have introduced bills to outlaw the practice. 
"They say these frogs grow to the size of a dinner plate," said a horrified Ren. Pat Harris of South Carolina. "I don't want to see somebody walk across the state house grounds with a frog on a leash and pick him up and lick him." 
And consider the plight of the common chicken. 
One of Harris' colleagues in South Carolina, Rep. Larry Koon, has introduced a bill making it illegal to fire a gun within 300 yards of a chicken coop. 
The sound of a gunshot, it seems, can cause chickens to lose their vaunted composure, jump into a pile and suffocate each other. 
The potty parity bill in Penn­
sylvania, and a similar one in 
Maryland, are aimed at elimi­
nating a serious, even agonizing 
social problem: the long lines 
that form outside women's 
restrooms in stadiums, 
convention halls and other 
public places. Simply put, the 
proposals require more toilets 
for women. 
It's getting to be all too much 
for some legislators, among 
them Rep. Bill Lear of Ken­
tucky. 

AP Photo
New co-host debuts 
Paula Zahn, right, joins Harry Smith Monday on her debut appearance on CBS' show This Morning. 

Student Senate attacks styrofoam 

Bruno's 

Smuh lknd. lntJiiHIU 

J14~$6.;o-FReEoe!wERv··--l 
116" $8.00 with coupon 
1 

1 18" $1 0.00 ·1~mlt on~ Item f!Br.plzza I 
-pnces pertam to dehvenes only-1
I LARGE PA,RT~ES (minimum 12 people) 
•All you can eat tor $4.00 at Bruno's 
•Free pop and specials 
•Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 
289-4625 

Come To Our Open House 
TONIGHT 
FROM 7 TO 8 P.M. in RM. 114 of tbe Computing Cent• and Malb Bldg. 

By SANDRA WIEGAND News Writer 
A resolution calling for the phasing out of Styrofoam products at Notre Dame was passed unanimously at the Stu­dent Senate meeting Monday. 
The ~!::!.tement recommended that the purchase and use of Styrofoam by University Food Services and by the ND com­munity on an individual basis be reduced, with the goal of discontinuation of use of Styro­foam products on campus within one year. 
One motivation behind the proposed ban is ozone deple­tion, which occurs when chemi­cal compounds released during the production of Styrofoam destroy up to 100,0.00 times as many ozone molecules as them­selves, the resolution stated. 
Ground level carcinogens are released during the production of Styrofoam, tpe resolution said, and the chemical styrene, a carcinogen which causes ner­vous system disorders, may permeate into the contents of the product, as well as cause health problems for workers involved in the production. 
The non-biodegradable makeup of Styrofoam, the reso­lution said, causes a threat to the waste disposal industry and to wildlife which may ingest the products. 
The resolution suggests the use of alternative products such as cardboard and recycled paper products. 
The resolution was presented 
lost their jobs when the gov­

Germ. 
ernment disbanded the secret continued from page 3 police under pressure from 
pro-democracy groups. cate 7,500 East Germans are Officials said they were not out of work, but unofficial es­certain how many East Ger­timates put the number at 10 mans applied for jobless bene­times that. About 25,000 people fits Monday, since people must 
GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often hos o lot to do 
with where you start. If you wont to make the most of your potential, look into the mony opportunities ovoileble in NAVV MEDICNE. 
MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS UNIQUE CAREER FOR MATH/SCIENCE MAJORS UNLIMITED CAREER POTENTIAL FOR NURSES 

The Novy Medico! Teom offers o professional coreer plus the unique benefits' ond rewording lifestyle os o Novy officer. 
EXCELLENT MEDICAL FACILITIES COMPETITIVE SALARY & BENEFITS NAVV OFFICER FRINGE BENEFITS 

A Novy Medical Program representative will be on campus on March 6 &. 7, 1990. Make en appointment at the Plocement Office, or cell ahead for Information. 1-600-527-6636 
2f. 
NXWoFTiCER 
You areTomorrow. You are the Nav • 
by Student Senator Lisa Bost­wick on behalf of James Dailey and the Environmental Action Club, and will be sent to Uni­versity Food Services Purchas­ing and Business Affairs De­partments. 
Bostwick said that the Uni­versity still has enough Styro­foam to last six to nine months, and would use up this supply before implementing anything new. 
In other Senate news, a refer­endum to determine student support for co-residential housing will appear on the class election ballots this Mon­day. The Senate hopes to pro­vide information on the topic to the Administration. 
apply at local offices through­
out the country. 
Only a few dozen applicants were at the East Berlin office on Rosa Luxemburg Street, in contrast with the 4,000 the La­bor Ministry had expected. 
"We are completely surprised that so few have come," said Joachim Guenter, spokesman for the Labor and Wages Min­istry. 
Brigitte Schneider, a 52-year­old teacher, said she had been denied work in her profession because she was considered a "traitor" for not returning from a visit to West Germany in 1988. 
She came back later that year, but was forced to take a job with a music publishing en­terprise. She quit in January. 
'Tm trying to get a little money, as I don't know how else I will get by," she said. Ms. Schneider said she was living off savings, and "now I have to worry about surviving." 
Although the official unem­ployment rate remains below 1 percent, tens of thousands of people are in jobs that will be made obsolete by better tech­nology, and others probably will be victims of more efficient operating procures. 
The flight of 340,000 people to West Germany last year and more than 100,000 more since Jan. 1, 1990, has transferred the immediate unemployment problem to West Germany, where more than 2 million peo­ple are out of work. 


page 8 The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1990 

AP Photo

Please, not so hard 
President Bush gets a hardy handshake from West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl Sunday )~st ~efore 
a joint news conference at Camp David Sunday. Bush and Kohl held talks on the reumf1cat1on of 
Germany and discussed their talks with news reoorters at the conference. 
Social worker tried in abuse case 
BARTOW. Fla. (AP) -A six­member jury was picked Mon­day for the trial of a state so­cial worker charged with failing to report suspected child abuse in the death of a toddler who was dunked in a toilet for soiling his pants. 
It took just under three hours to select a panel to try Kenneth Houk, the first of three employ­ees of the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services to face trial in the case. He is accused of a single misdemeanor count that car­ries a maximum penalty of 60 days in jail. Polk County Judge Jesse Barber set opening ar­guments for Tuesday in the case. 
It is the first time in Florida that a child care worker has been criminally charged for 
Czech. 
continued from page 1 
coincidence or meant as a sig­nal that Czechoslovakia re­mains a dependable Soviet ally despite the withdrawal and a government dominated by non­Communists. 
Another CTK dispatch quoted Deputy Foreign Minister Evzen Vacek as telling a parliamen­tary committee the pullout would be completed by June 30, 1991. No specific date had been mentiom~d previously. 
Ceremonies at Frenstat were simple and brief. The departure from the base 110 miles south­east of Prague is to be com­pleted March 13 and Red Army troops are to be gone from Libava, 180 miles east of the capital, by March 25. 
The withdrawal agreement was initialed Feb. 22 in Prague and is to be signed in Moscow this week by Presidents Vaclav Havel and Mikhail Gorbachev. 
GETACTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME 
I·IJ,jJII il·Utj 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste I 
Aluminum e Newspapers eGlass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, orcall239-7668 
LEARN RUSSIAN ON THE BLACK SEA! 
The programs are organized by Dafna Ronn-Oxley of Vlrtus. Limited in cooperation with Sigma, a privately owned Russian cooperative in Sochl, Russia. There will be 2 sessions: June 8-July 11 and July 6­August 8. each session includes 80 hours of class work taught by qualified teachers at the university level plus 20 hours of class discussion, and also excursions in the area. COST: 1st sesslon-$2500. Price includes the course itself, accomodations with local Russian families, 3 meals per day, excursions and ALL air and land transportation. 2nd sesslon-$2680. Price Includes all of the above plus 4 days In Moscow. FOR INFORMATION CALL 1-800-274-9121 (24 hours a day) and leave your name and address. 
You are invited to an OPEN HOUSE MEETING ON Friday, March 2 between 11 :OOam -3:00pm 
room 
La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame University South Bend, Indiana 
13-year-old admits to molesting 64 children 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) -The confession was sup­posed to be secret, not even admissible in court. But now, people who follow the news know the name of a 13-year-old who admitted molesting 64 preschoolers. 
The leak of David Hawkey's confession and the resulting widespread publicity has seri­ously jeopardized his treat­ment, say counselors at the youth home where he is under­going court-ordered therapy. 
The boy now trusts no one and, because of fear of ha­rassment, has been removed from the public school he was attending under supervision. Social workers say they don't know where he can be helped without being followed by the stigma of what he admitted. 
"The question becomes, where can this child go now to get treatment? Are we going to have to send him out of state?" asked Glenn DeMots, associate executive director of Bethany Christian Services in Grand Rapids. 
The boy from Fruitport, a mostly rural community of 1,100 residents about 30 miles northwest of Grand Rapids, has been at Bethany since last summer after pleading guilty to second-degree criminal sexual conduct for molesting one child while baby-sitting during ser­vices at Fruitport Bethel Bap­tist Church. 
As part of his treatment, he was urged to disclose the names of any other victims. He 

, 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Friday, March 2 to Greg Guffey. For further information, call Greg Guffey at 239-5303 or 283-1662. 
admitted molesting 63 other children between ages 1 1/2 to 4 years old during 1985-88. 
He also implicated his 17­year-old brother, Paul, who was charged with one count of first-degree criminal sexual conduct. Paul denies the charge. 
David was told beforehand that any disclosures he made would be given to his case worker and police to ensure treatment for the alleged vic­tims. But otherwise, the confes­sion from patient to therapist is confidential. 
But during the notification of congregation members, the confession became public. The story was first published, iden­tifying the Hawkey boys, in the Muskegon Chronicle on Feb. 4. 
It wasn't long before the story was picked up nationally. David has been labeled as po­tentially one of the worst child molesters in U.S. history. 
Since the story broke, Muskegon County Prosecutor Tony Tague has filed two addi­tional charges of first-degree criminal sexual conduct against David and said he expects more charges. 
"I wouldn't feel comfortable just taking his word for (the number of victims), so we're trying to verify as many cases as we can," Tague said, adding that detectives were still inter­viewing many of the children. 

handling a case. 
Two-year-old Bradley McGee died July 28 after being repeat­edly dunked headfirst into a toilet, then beaten with pillows, prosecutors say. 
His mother. Sherly McGee Coe. 21, and her husband, Thomas Coe, 22, face separate trials in July on murder and aggravated child abuse charges. The proceedings will be held in Fort Lauderdale be­cause of heavy news coverage of the child's death in central Florida. 
Houk is accused of twice fail­ing to call an abuse hotline when he received calls about Bradley. In December 1988, Houk got a call claiming the mother was unfit because she was drinking and using co­caine. Then, a few weeks before Bradley's death, he received a call that the baby's mother had forced him to eat feces for soil­ing his diapers. 
In both instances, Houk's at­torneys claim the social worker acted in good faith by telling the caller to notify the toddler's assigned caseworker. 
Assistant State Attorney John Aguero questioned prospective jurors about a broad range of topics from handling of their own children to their knowledge of the case. 
All six jurors said they had heard about the case, and all but one said they believed such a charge should be punished by a jail term. 
• [jj '[]'[:30~0/jj[!. ~@[M]i]@U'. (!@(:3 ~l]r:30®Q!J~ [pi]@[p[!,i] 
ay OSCAR WILDR 


Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
Valdez capt. accused of endangering crew 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) ­Exxon Valdez Capt. Joseph Hazelwood tried to move the grounded tanker off a jagged reef, endangering the engine room crew and risking the loss of the ship, a prosecution ex­pert testified Monday. 
But defense attorneys at­tacked George Greiner Jr.'s tes­timony as inaccurate and elicited his concession that the ship never moved anywhere after it went aground. 
Greiner, who analyzed ship­board recordings of course changes during the ship's dis­astrous passage into Prince William Sound, said it was ob­vious that Hazelwood at­
tempted  to  move  the  tanker  
after  it  ran  onto  Bligh  Reef  
early March 24.  

Greiner, a marine safety con­sultant from Ridgefield, Wash., who spent 29 years as a Coast Guard officer before retiring in 1982, said recordings made between 12:38 a.m. and 1:41 
a.m. on that day showed the ship's heading was moved dras­tically back and forth. 
"The movement of the rudder back and forth is consistent with trying to move the vessel off the rock or bottom. I can think of no other reason for it," Greiner testified at Hazel­wood's trial. 
Under questioning from As­sistant District Attorney Brent Cole, Greiner said that moving the 987-foot ship o>IT the reef threatened further damage to the vessel and could have hurt or killed people in the engine room. 
Frvshmvn I St. Hedwig's Gong Showl 
Help support our class service 
project by volunteering for the 
tfollowing positions: 
·• Assistant Director 
.· ,.~--Stage Mananger 
-Technical Assistant (Ughts & Sound) -Publicity Manager -Crew members for these positions Ho experience necessaryl This is a gr42Cit opportonity to help ootl Call )enny X4890 or Lynn X4526
--_.... 
Greiner said the maneuver could have flooded the engine room, making the ship heavier and possibly sinking it. 
The prosecution contends that Hazelwood was reckless in trying to move the Exxon Valdez off the reef minutes after it ran aground, creating the nation's worst oil spill. 
Prosecutors say that, had Hazelwoor! succeeded in moving the vessel off the reef, the ship would haVf~ capsized, spilling even more oil and possibly killing crew members. 
The tanker spilled almost 11 million gallons of oil, killing countless birds, fish and other wildlife and blackening hun­dreds of miles of rocky shore. 
Hazelwood's attorneys main­tain he never attempted to back off the reef, but was trying to stabilize his ship by moving forward. 
Defense attorney Michael Chalos challenged Greiner's calculations, suggesting he didn't consider all information available when he reached his conclusions. 
"Do you know how much thrust would have to be gener­ated by the engine to move this vessel one inch?" Chalos asked. 
"No," said Greiner. "There's no way to calculate it." 
Chalos then asked whether the ship was capable of moving even one inch after the accident. 
Chalos suggested that, since the ship could not move, Hazelwood's efforts to extri­cate it from the reef meant little in assessing the criminal charges against him. 

APPhoto
Hilary found 
Hilary Foretich, the 7 1/2-year-old child at the center of a custody battle now spanning two oceans, tries a new bike inside of a motel compound in Christchurch, New Zealand Sunday. Hilary was sent into hiding with her maternal grandparents by her mother, Dr. Jean Morgan, who chose to go to jail rather than divulge Hilary's location, insisting that her ex-husband, Eric Foretich, had sexually abused the child. 

Shuttle Atlantis: Let's do launch 

were remaining at the Kennedy Space Center to review the flight plan. 
"We are disappointed we didn't launch, but are convinced that the launch team and the mission management team made the correct decision," Creighton said in a statement. "We are looking forward to our next opportunity." 
The astronauts boarded At­lantis about 2 1/2 hours before Monday's scheduled 12:54 a.m. liftoff. The countdown was put on hold, but a break in the 
weather never came and at 2:32 
a.m. the launch was abandoned. So far, the delays have cost the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration $2.75 million. 
Women 
continued from page 1 
blame. Notre Dame has a very long, fine history, but one dom­inated by men. Notre Dame is a very Christian place. One thing about Christianity is it encour­ages respect for the individual. Honestly, some people don't think of sexism as being disre­spectful to the individual," said Kolman. 
Kolman and Weaver agreed that Notre Dame lagged behind "peer institutions" in erecting a formal structure to address the status of women. 
According to Kolman, eight committee appointees have been named, and all are women. "In some sense there is a desire to have people more in tune with issues," she said, adding that there was no bias against men on the committee. "Men bring a different perspec­tive. They can offer important insights," she said. 
Kolman said she hopes the committee can convene by the first week of March. 
One ambitious Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student seeking challenging extra-curricular involvement to fill the following position: 
Observer Typesetting Service Director 
Applicants for this position should: 
• 
Possess strong management skills and the ability to work with all types of people. 

• 
Be eager to develop valuable Apple Macintosh skills. 

• 
Be energetic and enterprising. 

• 
Have the initiative to expand upon the successes of a profitable business venture. 


Contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
. c=-
Ihe Observer_-­

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -NASA will wait until Wednesday for the sixth at­tempt to launch the shuttle At­lantis on an undercover mili­tary mission, but weather may again interfere. 
Forecasters said there was only a 20 percent chance the weather would be favorable at launch time, expected to be about 12:45 a.m. 
The problem, they said, would be high winds and clouds, the forces that combined early Monday to halt the latest effort to put what sources said was a $500 million spy satellite in or­bit. 
The outlook improves to 40 percent on Thursday. 
After Monday's scrub, the fifth in five days, shuttle man­agers decided to wait two days so that the five military astro­nauts and launch team could rest. 
"We've got a 48-hour turnaround, and it's going to give us all a chance to get some rest," said NASA spokesman Bruce Buckingham. 
Three of the astronauts were making use of the break to fly back to their training center in Houston to practice liftoffs and landings in a shuttle simulator. 
They are Navy Capt. John 0. Creighton, the commander; Air Force Capt. John H. Casper, the pilot, and Marine Lt. Col. David 
C. Hilmers, the flight engineer. Air Force Col. Richard Mullane and Navy Cmdr. Pierre J. Thuot 

WEEKEND DISCERNMENT EXPERIENCE 
Friday, March 2 
7:00pm 
Saturday, March 3 
9:00pm 
Moreau Seminary adjacent to Notre Dame campus 
For those studnets who wish to come together to learn more about discerning an interest in religious life and priesthood. 
Contact: F1r. John Conley, esc Holy Cross Fathers & Brothers Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
Viewpoint
page 10 
The Obser.Yer 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc•a Rtch lannellt 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager . Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstine G1ll Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­icies of the adm1ntstrat1on of etther tnst1tut1on. The news ts reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible Unstgned editonals represent the opinton of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chtef. Manag1ng Edttor, Executtve News Ed1tor. Vtewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Edttor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of the communtty and the tree expresston of varytng opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged 
A lexicon for conservatives 

Rick Acker 
In my opinion, being conser­vative is in; just ask Michael 
In My Opinion 
Dukakis. Mel Gibson speaks at 
pro-life rallies, Charlton Heston campaigned for both Reagan Conservatism: 1. Belief in and Bush, and the College Re­goodness, justice, prosperity, publicans is the fastest growing God, and Ronald Reagan. 2. campus political organization The ideological force responsi­in America. There's no doubt ble for America's economic ex­about it: conservatism is pansion, the East European trendy. So, for all you conser­Revolution, the release of Nel­vative wannabies out there, son Mandela, and Notre here's a short list of "must" Dame's national championship. words which every aspiring young conservative should David Duke: 1. Former Impe­know by heart. rial Wizard of the Ku Klux 
Klan who ran for state office 
Abortion: 1. Murder (to rank as a Republican. 2. Not really a and file conservatives). 2. An conservative (doubtless part of issue not to be touched with a a liberal/communist plot aimed ten foot pole (to conservative at embarrassing conserva­politicians). tives). 
ACLU: 1. Atheists, Commu­Deficit: 1. Something brought nists, and Liberals United. 2. A about by Congressional over­front group for the Democratic spending on education and wel­party. fare. 2. Not an excuse to cut 
defense spending or raise 
Central America: Hegion de­taxes. voted to democracy, freedom, and human rights, except for Environmental Issues: Clever 
Cuba and Nicaragua. (see also: liberal disguise for yet another Nicaragua) attempt to raise taxes, restrict industry, cut defense spending, 
Communism: 1. An archaic and distract attention from the political and economic system threat of world communism. collapsing under its own weight. 2. The single greatest Freedom Fighter: 1. Guerilla threat to capitalism and soldier fighting against the morality. (Note: definitions 1 government of Afghanistan, and 2 are not contradictory) Angola, Cambodia, or 
Nicaragua. 2. The moral 
Communist: 1. One who be­equivalent of our founding fa­lieves in totalitarianism, athe­thers. (syn.: conservative. ant.: ism, socialized medicine, or a communist, terrorist) reduced American defense bud­get. 2. One who thinks Jesse God: 1. Someone who belongs Jackson should be President. in our classrooms and govern­(syn.: Liberal, socialist. ant.: ment buildings. 2. The first conservative) conservative. 
Conservative: 1. Any real GOP: God's Own Party. American. 2. Anyone who be­
Liberal: Whiny, amoral, and lieves in traditional moral val­unpatriotic individual who bF­
ues, freedom, and a lower capi­lieves in abortion and flagtal gains tax. 
burning. (syn.: communist, so­cialist. ant.: conservative) 
Libertarian: A pretentious conservative who favors legal­izing drugs and prostitution. 
Massachusetts: 1. Founding place of the Democratic Party, the Kennedy clan, and other 
subversive organizations. 2. Not really part of America (must have drifted over form Europe while nobody was look­ing). 
Media: Liberals with T.V. cameras and printing presses. 
Nicaragua: Spanish for "Afghanistan." 
Racism: 1. Something which hasn't been a problem in America since about 1964. 2. Affirmative action (the only ex­ception to definition 1). 
Sanctions:  One of the most  
important  forces  behind  
Nicaragua's  decision  to  hold  

elections. 2. Something which had no impact on South Africa's decision to release Nel­son Mandela. 
Socialist: A Communist who pretends to believe in democ­racy. 
Soviet Union: Still the Evil Empire (don't be fooled by the bald public relations guy with the birthmark). 
Terrorist: Guerilla soldier fighting against the government of El Salvador, the Philippines, Israel, or South Africa. (syn.: communist. ant.: freedom fighter) 
Union: An organized group of workers dedicated to lower­ing profits and increasing inef­ficiency. 
Rick Acker is a first year law student and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
_______,_____ 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
LETTERS 
NBC contract restores equitable distribution of football revenues 
Dear Editor: 
Kevin Guilfoile's Feb.22 money from Notre Dame by Viewpoint article was the first leeching onto the CFA surplus assessment of Notre Dame's funds generated by our na­
NBC football contract that tional football prestige. In truthfully reflects the intent of other words, Notre Dame's the CFA, ABC, NBC, and Notre football program subsidizes the Dame. While he accurately budgets of schools who receive portrayed the motives of the free income due to the dispro­CFA and ABC, he omitted an­portional distribution system. other source of clear greed: We have our own financial other schools with CFA con­needs to address (i.e. minority tracts. and low income financial aid). 
Under the current system, ev­so we should not allow others ery CFA school draws advertis­to siphon away our income. ing revenue into a pool which in The recently signed NBC con­turn is distributed back to the tract restores order to a natu­schools. But, the revenue gen­ral equilibrium. Unlike most erated by the schools is not dis­CFA schools, we have not and tributed according to their will not receive more than we draw. Most schools, in fact, draw from advertisers. The receive more than their contri­new contract only gives us ex­bution to the CFA. actly what we are owed-no 
Notre Dame, though, receives more, no less. Any cries of less income than it gives to the greed from other CFA schools CFA pool. Where does the ex­are sheer hypocrisy. tra money go? It is divided up among the other schools who George P. Hawley now complain about Notre Morrissey Hall Dame's "greed". They extract Feb. 22. I 990 
Iceberg d~bates provide a unique opportunity to address key issues 
Dear Editor: against, as well as voice their 
The semifinal round uf thl' own opinions. The debate will 
Iceberg Debates will be tonight last for forty-five minutes and 
at 9:00 p.m. The topic for this be followed by a fifteen to 
debate centers on the football thirty minute period for audi­
television contract between ence participation. A reception 
Notre Dame and the National will follow each debate. 
Broadcasting Company. The The Iceberg Debates are in­
two matches will be Grace I tended to involve the entire stu­
versus Pangborn at Mont­dent body and I strongly en­
gomery Theatre in LaFortune courage everyone to attend one 
and Pasquerilla East versus of these two debates on such an 
Breen-Phillips at the Hayes­important issue to our com­
Healy Auditorium. munity. 
These debates will be an ex­Matthew P. Thiel 
cellent opportunity for everyone Chairman 
concerned about the contract I990 Iceberg Debates 
to hear arguments for and Feb. 26, I 990 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY 
MR. TRUMP, HAS TH/5  l'M 7l<LJL.Y 50/?R.Y THINGS  
V&RY M&55Y PUBIAC  NOT  OIPN7 TURN OfJT!3e!TeR. I  
FWO IAJITH YWR IA/1~  AT  MI3AN, ~IAJORJ<&I)ON  
CHANGW Y()JR FEU­ ALL..  7HIS MARRIAGe I  
/N65 7DWARD  ..............  
HtR'?  
........  

/Ale CONSUL.T&D 7Ht 8I35TPLA5TIC 
SUR6f:ONS IN 
THt COUNTRY. 
8UTPWPL& 
'Man is not imprisoned by habit. Great changes in him can be wrought by crisis--once that crisis can be recognized and understood.' 
Norman Cousins 
.. 
~--~ 

----l 
-

Accent 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 page 11 
BONEHEAD BowL 
'A contest of useless information and NO trivia' 
STEVE BROWN As you can see, there are accent writer some really difficult questions here! Actually, there were some 
Last week, St. Ed's Hall spon-"real" questions about history sored its first Bonehead BowL and literature, but the contes­"What is the Bonehead Bowl?" tants and the audience seemed you may ask. Well, it's different to enjoy the ones along the lines things to different people. of "what's the name of Bo and 
Sophomore John Plumb de·· Luke's car on the Dukes" more. scribes it as "an excuse not to (Answer: the General Lee) do homework." Freshman Amy This year, the Bonehead Bowl Listerman says, "It's a chance consisted of about twenty-four to show off our vast knowledge teams, with names ranging or lack thereof." Others simply from Styrofoam Libido to St. see it as "a contest of useless Ed's Dave. The teams were split information and NO trivia." In into two divisions of 12 which any case, there's one thing that competed last Wednesday and 
, I't 

everyone involved in the bowl Thursday nights. Then, after agrees with -it's a lot of fun! single elimination play through 
TheBonehead---------·----------------fourroundsin Bowl is like the each division, ; college-bowl 1) Who is Calvin's best the field was 
competitions friend? nar~owe~ to thle 
that are often semifinalists. on TV game 2) What is sticking out of The cham-· 
~ ' ' 

shows. 1\vo Mary's head on the pionship was teams, each D held at
7 
~ I

made up of four orne· Theodore's on 
players, hear 3) Why does the snow on Saturday night. questions, buzz The team in on a Family South Quad melt from Stanford 
Feud-type in stripes? took this year's buzzer. and crown, but St. 
attempt to 4)What is your favorite Ed's plans to 
answer as many color? give the other questions as dorms a chance possible. anyq (t puno1~ aq1 to get even next 
The distinctive year. They plan 
feature of the lBaq S]auunl wealS (£ to make the Bonehead Bowl. P01 ~U!UII.{~!I (Z saqqoH (l bowl an annual though, is the -------------------------event and hope wide variety of knowledge that that support next year will be the questions attempt to extract even greater than it was this from the confines of the year. contestants' nimble minds. To give you an example of the vast The Bonehead Bowl was a lot 
range of these questions, here of fun for the audience as well are a few examples from the as the contestants. People had a competition: ball coming up with creative 
1) How many people ever answers to questions like "what died on the A-Team? is your favorite color" and "who 
2) Complete the following: made Notre Dame #1." So what Three cheese ___ if all the knowledge the bowl 
3) Why does Bo Schembechler fosters and 60 cents will get you eat his Wheaties right out of the a cup of coffee? 
box? A good time was had by all in Answers: 
the first-annual Bonehead 
1) none Bowl, and it promises to be­
2) croissant come an anticipated event in 
3) He keeps losing the bowl. the future. 
Vogan and Pritchard focus of Literary Festival Tuesday 
Sara Vogan is ries titled "Scenes From the also known for Homefront" (1987) earned her

SophomOre\ ~~~':.\~~~~~-~af\Of\\.\ 
her expression the University of Illinois Short in several dif-Fiction Award. ferent forms. Samples of both Vogan and

Literary'_jI~:;.::as ~~ ~.,i~ f\\ 
She holds a Pritchard's works were anthol­bachelor's ogized in "Best American Short 

~~~Fes~th~raJ. 
~~~i~~~~~ the --~ 'J-..~" Fes~ ,·1ta11 degree in 
Stories." The two women con­

MIKE BEVERIDGE Hesburgh -~ .\1 tinue to earn respect and admi­
journalism, accent writer ~~:;ry Audito-from the ration for their upcoming en­­

University of deavors. 

The University of Notre Dame West Virginia 
Melissa

is continuing its long tradition of several awards, including the (1969), and later returned to With literary talents such as
Pritchard has earned the
of honoring the power of writ­respect and praise of the Flannery O'Connor Award for UWV to teach creative writing. Vogan and Pritchard, the Festi­ing by hosting the 22nd Her efforts were rewarded with val promises to continue its 
literary community for her Short Fiction and the Carl 
Sophomore Literary Festival the Teacher of the Year Award tradition of excellence. Attend 
short fiction with the publica­Sandberg Literary Award. She 
this week. Tuesday's guests in 1973. Vogan has received the Festival and be a part of
tion of a collection titled "Spirit is also noted for sharing her ­
have both shown a variety of most of her honors for fiction. that tradition. Vogan and
Seizures" and for her first pub­talents as a respected teacher 
literary talents through teach­lished work, a novel titled of creative writing at Santa Fe Her first novel, "In Shelly's Leg" Pritchard will read in the Hes­ing as well as more than one Community College in her · (1981), was widely acclaimed, burgh Library Auditorium at
"Phoenix". Acclaim for 
form of writing. Melissa hometown, Taos, New Mexico. and her collection of short sto-8:30p.m. on Tuesday. 
Pritchard has come in the form Pritchard and Sara Vogan will 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
-
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
I 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATIONOF BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!I! 
Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1,400 Cost: Zero Investment 
Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-8472, ext. 10 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
......FEELING GUllTY?'.... Come to GUllT: FROM RUPTURE TO RECONCILIATION on Wed, 2/28 from 6:30-8:00 in the Foster Room at Lafortune. Presented by the Univers1ty Counseling Center. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
SPRING BREAK IN THE SUN 
Guaranteed Lowest Prices! 
'Cancun--$424 South Padre--$169 'Bahamas--$469 
'(Airfare included) CaiiTed x3276 
MADMACS MADMACS MADMACS meeting lues. Feb 27 Rm 300 Math/Comp Computerland reps and discount DISKS and PD apps. 
St. Edwards Hall Forum Father Oliver Williams, CSC, Associate Provost Speaks On: "What I think about Nelson Mandela and the Future of South Africa• A First-Hand Report Thursday, March 1 
7:00p.m. 
St. Edward's Hall 
MADMACS MADMACS MADMACS If you have a mac, then we want you to come to our meeting. Disks, software, peer support, Special lnterst Groups, etc. 
EXPERT TYPING AVAILABLE. CALL LIZ 234-1075 AFTER 1 PM. 
NEED A BABYSITIER? 21 YR OLD, ND SENIOR. WILLING TO SIT EVENINGS. HAVE CAR/WILL TRAVEL, RATES NEGOTIABLE. CALL MICHELLE 283-1825. 
For a hot tip on where 
to find a good time 
Call 64 7-0900 ext 17 40 
St. Mary's Campus Events 
HoltinA 

-LOST/FOUND 
LOSTI LOST! LOST! LU::; II An antique ring with a green square stone; lost on Feb. 14 possibly in south dining hall. Great sentimental value. REWARD I Call Deb at x3829 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify 
LOST Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­Vislon case. Please call x2967 if found. 
LOST: GREY I.D. CASE in the coatroom of the Snite Thursday, 2­22 at 5:10P.M. To the person who 

-took this, you were seen and I.D. ed. Return It immediately and no questions will be asked. 
Lost! I Lost! I Lost!! Lost! I KEYS & ID in a blue Notre Dame pouch between library auditorium and Cushing Hall at around 2:00 on Monday, Feb 
26. Please call Ann X4972 
Found: Men's ring outside 
South Dining Hall. Call David 
x.3233 
FOUND: One black Studio Six 
shoe at St. Ed's late Friday Night 
(Did you walk barefoot?) 
Call # 4364 to identify and claim. 
( WANTED__, 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B340. 
SPRING BREAK RIDERS NEEDED to drive back to Boston/NH area for break & share expenses. Call Kara 1825. 
Drummer & Guitarist seek SERIOUS musicians for Progressive & Rock band: Vocalist (Guitar or Keyboard playing ability a plus), Bassist & Keyboardist(male or female w/ good voice). Pro. equipment & good attitude a must. Call Ken X3303 
EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER 
OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor 
at CAMP WAYNE. Northeastern 
Pennsylvania, 21/2 hours-NYC. 
Co-ed 6/23-8/21. Salary. travel 
allowance and room and board. 
Option-pre-camp work starting 
6/10. Warm, fun family 
atmosphere. Specialists for all 
sports, waterfront, camping, 
computers, arts. Campus 
Interviews March 23, 1990 10-5. 

Write Box 823, Lynbrook, N.Y. 
11563 or call 516-559-4562 

Models wanted for Advanced Hair Cutting Class during the week. For more information call Cosimo's 277-1875 
ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602-838­8885, EXT R6262. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Outstanding brother/sister sports camps -22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls -215-884-3326; boys-914-698­1833. 
COUNSELOR Women's Care Center, pro-life pregnancy help center looking for full-time counselor to do pregnancy testing, support counseling, social service and medical referrals to offer positive alternatives to abortion for girls/women facing unplanned pregnancies. BA or equivalent experience required. Salary and benefits commensurate with experience. Will train. Send resume to: wee 
417 N. St. Louis St. 
South Bend, IN 46617 
Attn: Jeanne Thelen 

ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS 
FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F 
1 OAM-4PM 255-8700 
For Rent 
HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE HOME. 5 BDRM, WID. CLOSE TO ND. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­6010. 
SUMMER RENTAL 6/1-8/1 5 Bdrm,2 Bath.Furnished $120p.mnth p.prsn 515W.Marion JON x2506 
2 and 4 bedrm. furnished houses; 90-91 year. Great cond./area. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 
TOWNHOUSES' FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems. basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood.dishwasher CALL 232 -8256 
FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH SECURE HOME. 10:>1 r:JEMI\UDE. CAll :>:'14-fii;RR nR .., .. : ·,;1~ 1 
( FORSALE 
IBM PC system: color-graph,cs, printer, &software:$1000 or best offer-call X1 090 & leave message. 
Is It True ...Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
HOMES from $1 (U-repair). 
Delinquent tax property. 
Repossessions. Call 1-602-838­
8885 Ext. GH 6262. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, 
Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000 
loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy 
Bumper/Hitch. $5,800 or B/0. 
271-8016. 
1979 Buick Park Avenue 
Loaded, Excellent Condition 
All offers considered. 
Must sell. Call Aaron @ 3376 
Boston Acoustics A-70 spks 
Rated #1 in Consumer Reports. 
$225 OBO call Tony 289-8020 
For Sale: Marshall amplifier Call Scott @ x3405 
Round trip plane ticket. SB to Miami for Spring Break. Best Offer. 
f""'"ncms 
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!" WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 
I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT 502-582-1920. 
NEED 3 KENTUCKY LOWER ARENA G.A.'S. CALL BRYCE X1646 
$Need Missouri Tix X1418 $ 
I Need Missouri tickets, both GAs and student. Please call Jeanne at 2600 and leave a message. 
I Need Missouri Tixl Kevin x1758 
HEYII GOOD SAMARITAINSI!I PLEEEEZ help me out herellll I DESPARATEL Y need to trade my MIZZOU student ticket for a GA for my wonderful father! PLEEZ call Bryan at 272-7313 to help out a man in need Ill 
OH BOY I REALLY NEED 
TICKETS FOR THE MISSOURI 
GAME--CALL X1128. 
NEED Missou tix 
4 GA's and 2 Studs 
Please call Matt x2265 
NEED MISSOURI TIXS.272-6306 
The Observer accepts classifieds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and lrom 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's olfice, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. mcludmg spaces. 
My brother has been threatening me all year to get him ND tickets. PLEASE sell me your Missouri GAs before this ND grad takes drastic measures Will pay$$. call Diane 
'at2;~~ALS 
Parrot Heads Forever !II 
HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­8445. 
SOPHOMORES!! Get ready: THE SOPHOMORE EXPRESS 
is on it's way. WHERE? Union Station WHEN? Friday, March 2, from 
9:30pm to 1:OOam Featuring the band: "SMOKE TAXI" 
Tickets are $15.00 per couple and on sale NOW!!!! They include two souvenior glasses and round trip transportation. 
Ride Needed To NH/Boston area for Spring Break. Will share driving & expenses. Call 283-3442. 
$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ Need Billy Joel Tickets!!!! Worse than you could believe!! Please call #2030 or #4819!! Don't forget,$$$$$$$$$$!!!!!!!!! 
scon scon scon scon 
Happy birthday on March 2. 21 finally!!!!!!!!! 
GILBERT GILBERT GILBERT 
Need ride to Baltimore/D.C for Spring Break. Will pay$$. Kathy x4914 
Top 13 Quotes from the Lewis Quad 
13.Dana. I borrowed your room .. .knock! 12.Kel,get lucky? 11.Nancy, thanks for taping up the dead flowers 10.Yes Rich. you did fall during a slow song 9.Jamie maybe you should have kept the clock 8.Hsmnhuson...uh huh! ?.Get the fire extinguisher out of the room, now I 6.Jim Bob pulled it out too quickly and it got all over my face 5.1\'s a conditioned response 4.Ba-ba-boom 3.Rich, we all would have fit on the bed if it wasn't for our childbearing stock 2.Should it be after the formal or after the formal? 1.Beth, you won the bet! 
Joe-Thanks for the best year and a half! I love you so much. You are certainly the MAMITW, SME, HME, AAAM, BSE and the BBE. Bubba you, Kelley 
Joe-
Thanks for the best year and a half! I love you so much. You are certainly the MAMITW, SME, HME, AAAM, BSE and the BBE. Bubba you, Kelley 
MELISSA BURTCHAELL!I! And, of course, Mike, Bill, Ken, and Frank! Only 11 more days until we finally get some SUNil II the state police do not kick us out, we will have an AWESOME time! (I hope you saw this this time) 
THE CLUB 23 
Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
ADOPTION 
Physician and wife, happily married for ten years, would dearly love to adopt a baby. We have a comfortable home to share and most importantly lots of love, patience and understanding. We live on 20 rolling acres with a large lawn, pond and woods. We will provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded message. (219) 625-4205. 
Need a ride to St. Louis on 3/30!!! Call Julie x3141 
To the Fighting F-gs of 814 and the 'Nises: Cheer up and prepare for Bookstore--All is not lost!! 
P.S. Thanks to Ray Flannery and Joe Hippler for a great season. 
PHILIP KRAKER Will it be the NBA or the business world? Choices, choices. Consult your cruise director Julie McCoy to help make your choice. 
All children of SINGLE-PARENTS, please come to a meeting at 7pm in Lewis Hall on Feb 27th. Bring your ideas, problems, and possibly solutions so that we can make changes for Notre Dame students from "non-traditional" families. Any questions? Call Christina at x3445. 
SCARLET BEACON SCARLET BEACON SCARLET BEACON 
acoustic folk/rock 
Neil Durso Joe Meyer Kristen Sullivan Suzanne Brown 
at Club 23 TONIGHT, 10 p.m. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS...GET A DATE NOW. SENIOR FORMAL BID SALES THIS TUES., WED., AND THURS. 
ATIENTION ALL WSND STAFF 
The WSND Executive Staff cordially orders you to attend our SEMI-ANNUAL MANDATORY MEETING, to be held Wed., February 28, in the Puzzle Room of Breen-Phillips. Dinner will be catered (so don't eat before), entertain­ment will be provided (via the pleasure of one another's company). and station busi­ness will be handled. COME ANNOUNCERS, COME NEWS STAFF, COME NOCTURNE, COME ALLIII 
WOULD YOU LIKE TO WORK FOR THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST EMPLOYER? COME TO GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, NOON-4P.M. 
GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY CIVILIAN SUMMER AND PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, NOON-4 P.M., CCE. SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
Col. Congrats on your internship! Mishawaka won't get away with anything now that you are wearing the press hat. But the best of all, do you know what this internship means for your roommates? YES I YOU are buying Eduardo's next year. 
L, On Friday I'll buy you that Coke I owe you with whatever you like in it. But you still owe me dinner; I 
bought last time. J. 
CHUCKY SACK­HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY (SORRY I WON'T BE THERE) AND GOOD LUCK AT EASTERNS! 
LOTS OF LOVE, YOUR SISTER 
Top 5 Quotes From The Chicago Trip 
5. I'll give you a quarter to stand up and yell "You sunk my battleship!" 
4. It's no longer a cultural experience-it's an adventure. 
3. We've lost the physics gods-if you were a physics god, where would you be? 
2. Want a caramel brownie? 
1. It's 106 miles to Chicago, it's snowing, and we're wearing dress shoes. Hit it! 
Hey Skinny. 
What are you thinking? You can't beat the BIG Guy! 
I'm glad you can suck IT, because you're the only one who wants to.Go home to Mommy! 
Slimfast 
HEY J.R. 9D' I didn't want you to leave that way either-but you didn't say goodbye. Let's throw out the rule book and give it one last try. Besides, it can't get any worse and rules are made to be broken! 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY. BRIAN JIMMY AND SAM 
Sid, really luv ya n stuff!! Nan 
grand wizard: perhaps a meaningful encounter? Stop ogling Walsh aerobics. 
Congratulations SIEGFRIED SLAMMERS B TEAM The Purple People SLAM the 
OLD People! They must have forgotten 
theirGeritol! Thanks for a great season girls and thank God, when you're old and gray, you won't be as bad as BTICG and all their goofball friends! Until the party when we all wear our Budweiser pants, 
Vin and Chris 
Happy Birthday to our Wild Woman, the "Head"Master!!! We'll miss you next year! Love, 4th floor McCandless. 
Mau-Happy Birthdaylll We've had some awesome times ...l'll miss you next year!! I Love ya', Mau. 
Lots of people wear red sweaters.. . I think I know who you are. but please be more specific, who am I? 
I need a ride to Grand Rapids, Ml 3/1 or 3/2. Please call Jeni 284­5017. 
8th grade 
Valentines 
hiag 
SUGARCUBES tickets still on sale 
Rm. 200 LaFortune $27.00 ticket and bus last day is Wednesday! 
WVFIAM640 
Hey Slimfast, 
LOST: a walkman from the flocke. It was a x-mas present, $$ reward offered-no questions. call x1703. 
Did you lose a 1 inch diameter gold earring near Wash Hall? To recover your earring,please come to 213 St. Ed's with the correct 
match. 

FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
SUMMER RENTAL.Home near campus. Security system.272­6306 
Help meII My parents need 2 Mizzou B-ball nx. Call Mike #2940 
HELP!!II Desperately Need 4 Missouri tickets for big brol PLEASE CALLI II Ann 4x5087 BIG BUCKS INVOLVEDIII DJW-PATIENTL Y waiting for March. How about you? Love, TL T 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
Prepare yourself, Thaddeus is soon arrivingII 
SCOTI WALKER... Get OUT of MY section! 
Sucker weight lifters really make me sick I I'm so bad I can suck my own d---1 
If you go to your girl's house and I'm there already, Don't go crazy 'cause my name is skinnyI 
Tough Luck 
Zaf 

.. 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Firing of Berry settles Patriots' feud 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) ­Raymond Berry was fired Monday as coach of the New England Patriots in a power struggle with General Manager Pat Sullivan. Pittsburgh defen­sive coordinator Rod Rust re­portedly was the top candidate to succeed Berry. 
The firing apparently cen­tered on Sullivan's desire that Berry go outside the organiza­tion to name .offensive and de·· fensive coordinators, while Berry apparently wanted to fill those spots from his current staff. 
"In my job as a coach, I'm hired to give these people my best judgment ... I do things I believe in and I have a very dif­ficult time doing things I don't believe in," said Berry, who was released one day before his 57th birthday and after 5 112 seasons in which the Patriots were 48-39. 
When asked if he had ever wavered in his position, Berry said, "You can't do that. You can't compromise your beliefs." 
Sullivan had no comment when he left Sullivan Stadium at noon for a meeting with Berry and Berry's attorney. Berry said Sullivan had agreed to honor the final year of his five-year contract. 
Rust received permission from the Steelers to talk with Sullivan, flew from Pittsburgh Monday and reportedly met with Sullivan, who had no comment about a successor to Berry. The Patriots said a news CC;nference would be held Tuesday afternoon. 
In a statement released by the 
team, Sullivan said the decision 
to release Berry was "the most 
difficult and most unpleasant 
of my career." 
Sullivan had said improve­
ments throughout the entire 
organization were needed and a 
post-season review was under­
taken to pinpoint them. 
"It is apparent to me that 
Raymond Berry and I have en­countered deep philosophical differences as to the depth and nature of those improvements. To allow such differences to continue to exist is harmful to the organization," Sullivan said in his statement. 
"I was hired to coach the team and to make coaching de­cisions under our agreement," said Berry, referring to his con­tract. "If he (Sullivan) doesn't agree with my coaching deci­sions he can fire me, and he's done that. It's as simple as that. He's doing his job. I'm doing mine. We both have a right to do that because this is America." 
The Patriots were 5-11 last season and missed the NFL playoffs for the third consecu­tive year. Berry, who had worked without offensive and defensive coordinators in 1989, was pressured by Sullivan to add those positions. 
Last December, shortly after the season, Patriots owner Victor Kiam reportedly offered former San Francisco coach Bill Walsh the job of club presi­dent and the power to hire a coach or take the job himself. 
When Walsh declined, Berry appeared to be on firmer ground entering the final year of his contract, which report­edly gave him control over team personnel. 
But after Berry reportedly told Sullivan he planned to split the offensive coordinator's job between running back coach Bobby Grier and quarterback coach Richard Wood, Sullivan went to Kiam. 
The owner gave Sullivan permission to find a new coach. 
"It was time for Pat to step up to the plate and take charge," Kiam said. 
If Rust, 61, is hired, it would be his first NFL head coaching job. An assistant with four pro teams the past 14 years, Rust was Berry's defensive coordina­tor for 3 12 seasons.before fill­ing that position with Kansas City in 1988 and the Steelers in 1989. 
It was a dispute over an as­sistant coach that got Berry the Patriots' head job in the first place. And that assistant was Rust. 
Ron Meyer, then the head coach, fired Rust on Oct. 24, 1984 before informing Sullivan, who was attending league meetings in New Orleans. 
"I did what I felt was within my authority," Meyer said. 
Sullivan rushed home, hil"ed Berry that night and told Meyer the next morning he was fired. Rust regained his defensive co­ordinator's position. 
The Patriots were 5-3 at the time and ended the year at 9-7. The next season, Berry guided them to their only Super Bowl appearance in team history. They lost 46-10 to the Chicago Bears. 
New England was 11-5 the next season, but only 8-7 and 9-7 the next two years before having their worst record since 1981 last season, although in­juries sidelined several top de­fensive players for the entire season. 
Berry, who reportedly had great input into the offensive game plans, repeatedly was criticized for an unimaginative and predictable offense. 
In the next to last game of the season, the Patriots lost to the Steelers 28-10. Rust's de­fense didn't allow a touchdown unti11:16 was left in the game. 
"Our preparation was good," Pittsburgh linebacker Jerrol Williams said. 
Rust was the Patriots' defen­sive coordinator from 1983 through 1987. His stay with Kansas City ended when head coach Frank Gansz and his staff were fired late in the 1988 season. 
IF YOU~VE GIO'T TT~ lfrMJE~ Vi~VJ~ Wffi\~lf nr ~ 
There are o~er~ in cash prizes to the winners of the 
March 29 ~·-'-~ _ TALENT SHOW i""­. ~, ! ' 
-s o~~ ~\ 
NIGHTCLUB I \ '1 
To audition for the show please ~ "----./ apply at the Student Activities \, / office b FEBRUAHY 28. ~ 

The N.D. Finance Club Presents Its 
32nd ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 
Featuring: Mr. A. William Schenk Ill of PiHsburg National Bank and Mr. Jo•hn Cosgrave of Travelers Insurance Co. 
These men will discuss and entertain questions on 
"FINANCE TODAY'' 
Wednesday Night at 7:00p.m. in Theodores All Majors Welcome 
0 0 0 ~ 
~~~z
a a a t-i 
E; E; E; ~ 
9 < 0 
c9.d 
~-0 s:d 
0 ~ tn
!!; 

APPhoto Mark Baker and the Ohio State Buckeyes passed their way to an 86-80 victory over Illinois last night. See story on page 14. 
Faust's Zips may have violated rules 
AKRON, Ohio (AP) -The NCAA is considering a possible recruiting violation in former Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust's football program at Akron University. 
The university reported the possible violation. 
At issue is whether the pro­gram violated a rule requiring that "a member institution shall not publicize a prospect's intention to accept its offer of financial assistance." 
On Feb. 14, the national signing day, Faust released a list that included both players who llad i<:SUPrl lettPrs of intent and potential players who had not. 
"It's a violation," said Akron Athletic Director Jim Dennison. "But I think we have clarified it, made possibly a major thing into a minor thing." 
Faust played down the situa­tion. 
"I don't know what people are getting up in arms about," he said. "I wasn't trying to hide anything." 
Dennison said Faust made an honest mistake in the belief that certain players had "CQmmitted verbally." 
Foiled 
continued from page 20 
epee team, who went an aggre­gate 5-22 on the day. 
"It is going to be critical that we qualify as one of the two epee teams from the Midwest," said DeCicco. "This will begin when we go head-to-head with Wayne State this week." 
The regular season has been somewhat extended for the Irish, as they have re-scheduled a previously cancelled matchup with Wayne State. The Tartars will roll into town on Wednesday for a 2:30 p.m. meeting to close out the season. 

"I feel that we can beat Wayne State and Illinois again," DeCicco said. "But it's definitely not going to be easy." 
On Saturday, the Irish will begin their bid for qualification in the NCAA tournament at the Great Lakes Championships. 
TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
0 -· 


page 14 
Sooners ready for Jayhawks 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP)-Billy Tubbs has a rather interesting equation to sum up a wild few days at Lloyd Noble Arena: 1 + 1 45. 
Tubbs' fifth-ranked Sooners knocked off Missouri, last week's No. 1 team, 107-90 on Sunday and they face the current No. 1, Kansas, on Tuesday. 
Tubbs says the victories mean little to him other than the Sooners would increase their homecourt-winning streak to 45 with a victory over the Jayhawks. 
"Our people know about how we play at home when they're recruited and we don't need to tell them about it again and we're very emphatic about that," Tubbs said. "We never talk about winning, period. You just assume and expect it." 
Kansas, though. has come to expect winning against everyone except Missouri (27­2), which handed the Jayhawks their only losses. In its two previous visits to No. 1, each of which lasted two weeks, Kansas was beaten by Missouri. 
"Being number one is strange because we're getting ready to play Oklahoma," Kansas coach Roy Williams said. "The number one jinx isn't nearly as much as having to play at Oklahoma. It's not your ranking that matters, but who you're playing." 
Oklahoma (21-4), an 85-74 loser to the Jayhawks earlier this season, is playing much better than the first time the teams met. 
"We're going to have a drastic change from our last game," Williams said referring to a 70-58 victory over Kansas State on Saturday when the Jayhawks scored the game's final 12 points. 
The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held Tuesday and Wednesday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the SUB office. The entry fee is $5. Applications for the Hall of Fame Game are due March 1. 
AI McGuire will give his opinion of Notre Dame's road to the NCAA tourney on WVFI-AM's sportstalk tonight from 8­9 p.m. Also hear coach Digger Phelps' preview of the Dayton Flyers as Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormack host. 
Off-campus hockey has a playoff game at 9:15 p.m. tonight. 
Women's lacrosse club will practice from 6 to 8 p.m. Wednesday and 5 to 7 p.m. Friday at Angela Athletic Facility. Call 284-5207 .for more information. 
NVA needs officials for floor hockey. The pay is $8.50 per game. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Crew team will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 127 Nieuwland to discuss spring break trip. 
Women's Bookstore signups will be on March 26, not on February 26 as originally reported. Further details will be printed at a later date. 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
and execute without having the benefit of playing singles. This is important because it usually takes a player a while to get into a rhythm," Bayliss noted. 
"The real glue to our perfor­mance was David DiLucia's brilliant play at number one singles and number one dou­bles," Bayliss said. 
Yet no season-ending cake­walk awaits the Irish, as the HEB Collegiate Invitational at Corpus Christi, Texas looms on the horizon. The matches, which will all be against Top 25 teams, will be played outdoors, while the Irish have been com­peting indoors all season. While this will force the Irish to adapt, the team remains opti­mistic. "All the teams will be good. It's a prestigious tour­nament, and a big honor to be included, so we would just like to make sure that we make a good showing," Bayliss said. 

Ohio State adds to lllini woes with seesaw win in Columbus 
Jackson pours in 28 points as Buckeyes edge 18th-ranked Illinois in contest at St. John Arena 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Jim Jackson matched his career high with 28 points and Perry Carter scored 14 of his 18 points in the second half as Ohio State defeated No.18 Illinois 86-80 in a Big Ten Conference game Monday night. 
Kendall Gill scored 23 points, 

Jackson finished with 12 of 16 from the field and 3 of 3 at the line. He also had three re­bounds and three assists. 
Carter had a game-high 13 rebounds for the Buckeyes, but Illinois held a 37-33 advantage in rebounding. 
Marquette 90, Evansville 65 MILWAUKEE (AP) -Tony Smith scored 29 points and made eight straight free throws during a 20-0 second-half run Monday night as Marquette routed Evansville 90-65 in a 

Marcus Liberty and Steve Bardo each had 17 and Andy Kaufmann 11 for the Illini (19­7 overall and 9-7 in the Big Ten). 
The game was marked by wild turnarounds. Ohio State ( 14-11 overall and 8-7 in the Big Ten) led by as many as 19 points in the first half. 
But Illinois outscored the Buckeyes 23-2 over a 6 1/2­minute stretch to take a 45-43 lead early in the second half. 
Ohio State, which ran its record to 11-2 at St. John Arena this season, came back to take the lead for good at 58­56 on a 3-point field goal by freshman Alex Davis with 10:29 left. 
Illinois trailed 77-76 after Bardo scored on a driving layup with 2:07 left, but Carter scored on a shot inside with 
1:47 left and then added a pair of free throws with 1:28 left to put the Buckeyes ahead 81-76. 
Two free throws by Ervin Small cut it to 81-78, but Mark Baker, who chipped in with 13 AP Photo point-s, hit two free throws and 
Stephen Bardo (35) and Illinois lost a seesaw game to the Ohio State
Carter hit two more to put the 
Buckeyes last night by a score of 86-80. 
game out of reach. 
~;~~,~~~,~~~'~'~'~'{'~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~'~'~'~i~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'{'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~
..• .
~  ~..  
~~  Study Abroad in Latin America  ~~  
.~j  0  0  ~~  
·~~  D~~  ~;  
~~ ~~~  \)~~~~~··~~AI to  Wed. Feb. 28  t~ ~~·  


~  ~  
:~~  ~~~  Noon-Lunch/Discussion at the CSC  [~ 
·~~[~  ~;  
~  ~­ ~  
~~  Augsburg College's Center for Global Education  ~~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~...  ~.,  
~~  Semester Programs based in Cuernavaca, Mexico  ~~  
~  ~  
~~..•... :~~...  -Social Policy -Global Community  ~;'.•' ·~ t!. ·~  
~  ~  
~j  -Women &Development  t~  
...  ·~  
~ ...  ~ ·~  
~  ~  
~j  For more information contact the Center for Social Concerns  t~  

~~~~~\~~~\~~~\~~~\~\~~~\~~~\~~~\~~~~~~~\~\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\~\~~~~~\~~~\~~~~~\~\~\~\~~~~~\~~~\~\~\~~~\~~~~~\~~~\~\~~ 

9:30-Noon in the Library Concourse 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference game. 
Marquette (13-12 and 7-5 in the MCC) led by 15 at the half and then put the game away in the second half with the aid of 
three  technical fouls  on  the  
Aces.  
Trevor  Powell  added  16  

points and Mark Anglavar 15 for Marquette, which had lost six of seven before Monday. 
Scott Shreffler scored 17 points for Evansville (15-14 and 7-6), which played without injured leading scorer Dan Godfread. 
Shreffler hit three 3-pointers as the Aces chopped the 15­point halftime deficit to 10 with 
10:39 left, but Mark Anglavar began the 20-0 ·run with a 3­pointer. 
Attention Saint Mary's students: 
The.Observer is seeking enthusiastic students interested in covering events on the Saint Mary's campus for the newspaper. If you like to write, have an inquisitive mind, or simply would like to help us make the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity more aware of events on your campus, contact Corinne Pavlis at 277-3682. 

be a part of it. 
FOR Goo's SAKE... 
;~Ki SACRIFICE! 
Jb go forth and preach••• 
And preach we do; through word, television, radio, The Paulist Press and the performing arts ... in the cit­ies, on the campuses, at downtown centers. 
To go forth and bring peace••• Seek out the lost, the alienated. those cut off from the Church. Offer them a time of Grace, a community, a sense of peacefulness amidst the turmoil. 
To go forth and seek unity... Reach out to other Christian tradi­tions, find the touchstones of faith and work toward a common vision of One Church; to foster our unique spiritual kinship with the Jewish people and a greater understanding and sensitivity of other world religions. 
If you think this sacrifice is worth it, then call! The Paullsts at 1-BOG-235-3456. Or write Fr. John F. Duffy, C.S.P., Paulist Fathers Vocation Office 415 W. 59th St. New York, NV 10019 
The Paulist Fathers 

'---­

Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer page 15 
TiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiT Baseball negotiations stall again 

satisfied with their first-half effort.

Announcing an offer 
"We weren't communicating on defense," said Robinson. "We started to communicate a 
little better in the second half." 
A Coquese Washington layup on the fast break gave the Irish a 43-24 lead with 19:05 left in 

designed to save money
for people who are, 
the game. From that point, 
Xavier started to play tougher 
and chip away at the Notre

well, abit long-winded 
Dame advantage. "(Xavier) played very well," McGraw said. "I just thought

when it comes to, 
we let them into the game. We shouldn't have let them back in the game." 

you know, talking on 
With Notre Dame committing 17 of its 26 turnovers in the second half, the Musketeers were able to cut the lead to 11

the phone,and who, 
points AT 47-36 with 15 min­utes remaining. But whenever Xavier threatened to make it

quite understandably, 
any closer, the Irish would go on a spurt. "They are the best passing

don't want to have 
team we've played this year," Ehlen said. "They see the court so well, and they're so darn

towait till after11 pm 
quick with Washington and Robinson. They're awfully hard to press, but when you're down 

to get adeal on 
16, you have to press. 
"I felt pretty good about our effort in the second half to at least make it interesting." 

long distance prices. 
In the last 1:15 of the game, the Irish scored eight unan­swered points to make the final score a bit deceiving. As im­pressive as the final margin may appear, the Irish were not too satisfied with their perfor­mance. 
"It was kind of an ugly win," said Robinson, who is 20 points away from her l,OOOth career point at Notre Dame. "We were kind of sloppy. We need to keep our heads in it because it's coming down to the stretch." 

If you spend a lot oftime on the phone, the AT&TReach Out"' America Plan could save you a lot on your After hosting Dayton on Thursday, the Irish travel to
long distance bill. And you don't have to stay up late to do it. Starting at 5pm, the AT&TReach Out"' America 
Detroit next Tuesday for the

Plan takes an additional 25% off our already reduced evening prices. 
last game of the regular sea­

To find out more, call us at 1 800 REACH OUT, ext. 4093. son, play the
then in MCC

And don't worry, we'll keep it brief March at
Tournament 9-10 Dayton. The Irish need to go Disrowu applies lo our-of-stale calls direct-dialed 5-10 pm, SUnday-Friday. through the rest of the schedule 
This servire may not be available in all residence hall.< without a loss to have a legiti­mate shot at an NCAA Tournament berth. 
AP Photo Charles Barkley scored 25 points last night as Philadelphia beat Orlando 129-11 0, while the Hawks beat the Miami Heat 123-114. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball talks came to an abrupt halt Monday and threw the start of the regular season in danger while three Pittsburgh Pirates 
wondered  whether  the  fight  
over  salary  arbitration  was  
worth it.  

"The season is in very heavy jeopardy," Commissioner Fay Vincent said. 
Owners and players did not meet as expected Monday and union chief Donald Fehr left town, saying he wouldn't return to the bargaining table until management makes new pro­posals. 
Fehr, scheduled to meet with the union's executive board Tuesday in Phoenix, agreed the stalemate might postpone regu­lar season openers on April 2. 
"I think it's been in jeopardy for some days now," he said. "I don't know if it's gone, but it's in some jeopardy." 
But on the 12th day of the owners' lockout, Pirates pitcher Neal Heaton said he is anxious to play. 
''I'm kind of leaning toward, 'Let's sign,"' he was quoted as saying by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. "This is getting ridicu­lous. I'm ready to go." 
However, Pirates' player rep­resentative Mike LaValliere said the Irish, while Lisa Kuhns scored 13 (shooting 3-of-4 from three-point land). Julie Campbell led Xavier with 15 points, and Jennie Schilling had 11. 
Despite the big lead at the in­termission, the Irish were not he spoke with Heaton and two the logjam as two giant orga­other players who expressed nizations overwhelmed with similar sentiments -Bob riches, fighting in circum­Kipper and Jay Bell-and be-stances where there's a na­lieved they would support the tional obligation or trust at union if it came to a vote. stake." 
"When you're dealing with 26 "I find it tragic to the point teams and 24 players on each of absurdity," he said. team, of course you're going to Fehr paid a courtesy call to have varied responses and dif-Vincent on Monday before leav­ferent opinions," LaValliere ing for Arizona. He said he ex­told The Associated Press. pects to brief players around LaValliere also said he would the country after Tuesday's tell the dozen Pirates at the site meeting; he did not say when he of the team's camp in would return. Bradenton, Fla., to go home "My expectation is that after Friday if there was no settle-the Phoenix meeting the great ment. likelihood is that I will see play-
Owners and players each say ers in two or three other places a minimum of three weeks of before coming back to New spring training is needed plus York," Fehr said. several days for players to Management negotiator travel to camps. The exhibition Chuck O'Connor said he would season was scheduled to start wait for Fehr to call about an­Thursday-those four openers other bargaining session. 
have been canceled-and plans Asked what it would take for 
were to be made Tuesday about the union to return to negotia­
future spring-training games. tions, Fehr said, "It has to take 
Talks have stalled over salary an indication from the clubs arbitration eligibility. The that there's something mean-union wants players again to be ingful to talk about. eligible for arbitration after ~-..----------­two years, as they were before 
oops
the 1985 agreement, which in­creased the requirement to continued from page 20 three years. while Nowlin added 14 points 
Vincent sympathized with and nine boards. fans, saying they would view Robinson added 15 points for 

page 16 
Hurricanes poised as they await start of spring practice 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­With the Miami Hurricanes set to begin spring practice, sec­ond-year coach Dennis Erickson figures there won't be too many questions about what to expect from the defending national champions. 
"A year ago they were won­dering if we could coach," Erickson said Monday. "Now people won't question us until September, and then we'll win them all again." 

Miami actually won only 11 of 12 in 1989 but it was good enough for a third national championship in seven years. Last October's loss at Florida State was ignored by Erickson -and in the season highlight film unveiled at a luncheon Monday. 
Finishing No. 1 makes such oversights excusable. It also makes the coach eager to re­turn Tuesday to the practice field. 
"Anytime you start sitting back on your laurels and don't look to improve yourself, you'll get your rear ends beat," Erickson said. "We're always looking for new and better ways to do it. We want to learn and try to find the best way for us to continue to keep this pro­gram where it's at." 
Some of the changes Erickson plans involve the running game. Several Hurricanes coaches visited the Kansas City Chiefs staff earlier this month to find out how Christian Okoye gained so many yards. 
"We're going to spend some time investigating a better way to run play-action passes and look at some different blocking 
ICEBERG a:BAJES 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990
The Observer 
Saint Mary's honors Radke before beating up on Bethel 
. . 
Addmg to the Belles scor­ing efforts was Brohman, who scored ten points. Senior forward Amy Baranko added nine points, while Restovich and Tettonborn tallied eight points each. 
"It was the best perfor­mance of the year. The girls executed the game plan the way we prepared them to do," Wood said. 
The Belles shot at 55 per­
cent from the field and 57 
percent from the line. 
In a special ceremony be­fore the game, the Belles re­tired Radke's jersey, number ten. Radke leads the school with 1253 total career points. 
"I was really honored. I am glad I was able to contribute to the team and to Saint Mary's athletics," said Radke. 
"Only people with out­standing contributions to the team, school and community have their jersey's retired. She's made an outstanding contribution to the Saint Mary's pro­gram, Wood said, 
The only other jersey re­tired at Saint Mary's be­longed to Radke's sister Tammve. 


~ ------~------~ 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basket­ball team finished its season at home Saturday by routing Bethel College 92-53. 
The Belles upped their record to 12-10 by coming out of the gate with a vengeance. Led by sopho­more froward Janet Libbing's 16 first half points, the Belles dominated the boards. Senior guard Julie Radke added to the Belles momentum, sinking three three-point shots, while guard Dawn Brohman, senior, added a pair of trifectas. At the half, Saint Mary's held a comfortable 46-25lead. 
"We just shot extremely well, dominating the boards. We had great offensive exe­cution and defensive pres-sure,"said Belles coach Marvin Wood. 
In the second half, the Belles continued to trounce Bethel. Freshman forward Kim Holmes, sophomore forward Catherine Restovich and Libbing each led the team with six points in the second stanza. Junior guard Dawn Brohman and Radke helped seal the victory with three-point goals down the stretch. 

schemes," Erickson said. Miami will use a two-tight end set more, he said, to take  be overcoming to the loss of three departed linemen, includ­ing All-Americans Greg Mark  To help the pass rush, the Hurricanes will experiment with more blitzing and man-to­ 
advantage of depth at that po­sition and the ability of bruising sophomore Steve McGuire, who ran for 519 yards and 10 touchdowns in limited duty last season.  and Cortez Kennedy. "I don't know that you'll ever in college football find a front four better than we had this last year," Erickson said. "So replacing them is going to be  man secondary coverage, Erickson said. Four starting defenders re­turn, including linebacker Maurice Crum and defensive tackle Russell Maryland. Crum  
Defensively, the priority will  very, very difficult."  will miss spring drills because  

he's playing baseball. 
Eight starters return on of­fense, including quarterback Craig Erickson. Sophomore Bryan Fortay will get a chance to wrest the No. 2 job from classmate Gino Torretta, who will miss about half of the five weeks of drills with a broken right arm_ 



This Tuesday, February 27 
* Reception to follow 9:00pm 
SEMI-FINAL 

*Breen Phillips vs Pasquerilla East 
* Grace I vs Pangborn ROUND 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer 

Kansas moves back on top as_ Missouri falls in AP Poll 

(AP)-Another week and an­other trek across the Missouri­Kansas border for the No. 1 ranking in The Associated Press poll. 
The Jayhawks, who have beaten everybody on their schedule but Missouri, grabbed the top spot back from their Big Eight Conference rivals Monday a few hours after Missouri's 107-90 loss at Oklahoma. The Sooners moved up from 11th to a tie for fifth, giving the Big Eight three teams in the top five, with Missouri settling in at No. 3 behind UNLV. 
For eight weeks, it's been ei­ther Kansas or Missouri at No. 1, but Jayhawks coach Roy Williams, facing a date Tuesday at Oklahoma, refuses to worry about a No. 1 jinx. 
"Everybody says No. 1 is a jinx, but not nearly as much as playing at Oklahoma," Williams said. "If we were getting ready to play Elizabeth City State, I don't think people would be talking about is No. 1 a jinx. I happen to think playing in Norman is much tougher than the jinx of being ranked No. 1 in the country." 
The Jayhawks (27-2) moved into the No. 1 spot for the third time this season with 41 first­place votes and 1,570 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcast­ers. 
Kansas, which had both its previous stays at the top ended by Missouri, will be on the same court where the Tigers (25-3) were knocked from the No. 1
AP Photo spot after becoming 
The Oklahoma Sooners, who defeated the then-top-ranked Missouri Oklahoma's 44th straight vic­
Tigers on Sunday, face the top-ranked Kansas Jayhawks tonight. tim at home. The final five ranked teams Purdue and 72-66 to Michigan Kansas and Missouri have are Louisville, Loyola State. 
t·······•••++••••••••++••••••••++•••.............t 
• FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
••• i
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE INFORMATION PROGRAMS 
• Each of the departments in the college will sponsor an "open house"during + •• which groups of students can visit with faculty, tour the laboratory facilities, 
i

+ etc. In addition, each department will schedule times for individuals to have •• special questions answered. The times for the "open houses"and individual + 
• 
questions are as follows for each department. 
i 

OPEN HOUSE 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 2/26-6:00-7:00pm 
CHEMISTRY and BIOCHEMISTRY 
EARTH SCIENCES 
MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS

•:
: PREPROFESSIONAL STUDIES 
•+ 
FRESHMEN 

283 Galvin Life 
ScienceBuilding 
2/28-6:30-7:30pm 262 Stepan Chemistry Hall 
2/28-6:30-7:30pm 101 Earth Sciences Bldg. 
2127-7:00-8:00pm 214 Mathematics & Computing Center 
2/26-7:00-8:00pm 284 Nieuwland Science Hall 
2127-6:30-7:30pm 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
FRESHMEN 
kept the top ranking a Big Eight matter for the past eight weeks after Syracuse of the Big East held it for the first six weeks of the regular season. 
UNLV (24-4) moved from 
fourth to second with 14 first­place votes and 1,492 points, 44 more than Missouri, which held the top spot for three weeks in two stints. 
ConnecUcut, which set a school record for victories with its 24th against four losses, moved from sixth to fourth. The Huskies were No. 1 on one ballot and had 1,293 points, just five more than Duke and Oklahoma, which tied for fifth. 
Duke (23-5) dropped two spots from last week after los­ing to North Carolina State 76­
71. The Blue Devils were named No. 1 on one ballot. 
Georgetown (21-4) dropped from fifth to seventh with 1,230 points after losing to St. John's during the week. Michigan (20­
5) fell one place despite winning both its games last week. 
Purdue (20-5) held ninth even with a 90-78 loss to Illinois and Syracuse (20-5) moved up one spot to round out the Top 10. 
La Salle, which owns the country's best record at 25-1, received the other two first­place votes, but the Explorers again failed to crack the Top 10. 
Georgia Tech (20-5) led the second 10 with 920 points and was followed by Arkansas, La Salle, Michigan State, Louisiana State, Oregon State, Minnesota, Illinois, Xavier of Ohio and Clemson. 
School and record Pts  Pvs.  
1. Kansas 27-2 (4t) 1,570 2. UNLV 24-4 (14) 1,492 3. Missouri 25-3 (5) 1,448 4. Connecticut 24-4 (1) 1,293 5. Duke 23-5 (1) 1,288 6. Oklahoma 21-4 (tie) 1,288 7. Georgetown 21-4 1,230 8. Michigan 20-5 1,170 9. Purdue 20-5 972 10. Syracuse 20-5 967 11. Georgia Tech20·5 938 12. Arkansas 22-4 918 13. La Salle 25-1 (2) 874 14. Michigan St. 22-5 827 15. LSU 21-6 646 16. Oregon St. 21-4 597 17. Minnesota 19-6 454 18. Illinois 19-6 447 19. Xavier, Ohio 23-2 442 20. Clemson 22-5 400 21. Louisville 20-7 330 22. Loyola Marymount 22-5 325 23. Arizona 19--6 318 24. New Mexico St. 23-3 186 25. Georgia 19-6 172  2 4 1 6 3 10 5 7 9 11 8 13 1.4 15 12 17 18 19 19 23 16 22 21 24 - 

( ) -Number of f1rst place votes AP 
Marymount, Arizona, New Mexico State and Georgia, the only newcomer to the rankings. 
The Bulldogs (19-6) beat Southe.astern Conference foes Mississippi and Louisiana State last week to return to the poll for the first time since January, 1989. 
Indiana (16-8) was No. 25 last week, but the Hoosiers, who started the season 10-0, lost both Big Ten games they played last week, 72-49 to 
•+ 
:
:
INDIVIDUAL QUESTIONS 
2/27-10:00am-12:00 noon 2/28-Call for appointment 
:
(239-7835) 147 Galvin Life Science Bldg. 311-1:30-3:30 pm 356 Stepan Chemistry Hall 
3/2-9:00am-5:00pm 103 Earth Science Bldg. 
•:
2/28-1:00-4:00pm 3/1-1:00-4:00pm 3/2-1:00-4:00pm 
309 or 311 Mathematics and Computing Center 
3/2-3:00-S:OOpm 384 Nieuwland Science Hall 
2/28-2:00-4:00pm 3/1-2:00-4:00pm 229 Nieuwland Science Hall 
FRESHMEN 
J 
• 
_.. 

................................................ 
~-----------~--~--------~ 

page 18 
Rangers thrash Bruins 
NEW YORK (AP) -Darren Turcotte scored three times, twice in a five-goal second pe­riod, as the New York Rangers completed their first-ever regu­lar-season sweep of the Boston Bruins with a 6-1 victory Monday night. 
The Rangers won all three meetings with the Bruins this season, the first time since en­tering the NHL in 1926 they have swept the season series from Boston. The victory ex­tended the Rangers' unbeaten streak to 4-0-1 and ended the Bruins' four-game winning streak. 
Turcotte, playing his first full NHL season, had two power­play goals in the second period and completed his second ca­reer hat trick by beating relief goalie Andy Moog on a break­away with 6:31 remaining. 
Boston starter Reggie Lemelin stopped all 20 Ranger shots in the first period, includ­ing a penalty shot by Kelly Kisio at 10:17. But the Rangers solved Lemelin and the NHL's leading defense in the second period, scoring five times on seven shots. 
Cam Neely's power-play goal 

at 11:23 of the first period gave 
the Bruins a lead but Kisio tied 
it at 1:59 of the second period 
on a back-bander. Turcotte got 
his first goal, a slap shot from 
inside the right circle, at 4:18. 
Bernie Nicholls made it 3-1 at 
8:37 with a quick wrist shot from the bottom of the left cir­cle following a cross-ice pass from Ulf Dahlen. 
At that point, the Rangers had scored on all three of their shots in the period. 
Turcotte got his second power-play goal at 10:57, this time beating Lemelin from the top of the left circle with a slap shot. Rookie Troy Mallette added his fifth of the season at 18:12, back-handing Nicholls' rebound into a half-empty net. 
The five-goal period was the Rangers' biggest of the season and the victory gave them a three-point lead over the sec­ond-place New York Islanders in the Patrick Division. 
Kisio was awarded his penalty shot when Lemelin threw his stick at the puck as Kisio circled the net. Kisio skated in, but Lemelin stood his ground and stopped Kisio's wrist shot with his glove. 
The Bruins, who completed a six-game road trip with a 4-2-0 record, are 10-2-1 in their last 13 games away from Boston Garden. They remained three points ahead of second-place Montreal in the Adams Division. 
Nordiques 3,
PenJ{uins 2 

QUEBEC (AP) -Ken Mcrae and Lucien DeBlois scored third-period goals to give the lowly Quebec Nordiques a 3-2 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Monday night. 
It was only the second victory in the last 18 games for the Nordiques, who were the first team to be eliminated from the playoff race and have by far the worst record in the NHL (11­46-6). 
DeBlois slipped the rebound of Joe Sakic's shot from the point into an open net at 13:49 with Randy Gilhen serving a hooking penalty. 

Michel Petit scored Quebec's first goal. Jim Johnson and Phil Bourque scored for Pittsburgh, which is third in the Patrick Division and fell four points behind the first-place New York Rangers. 
The Penguins, who were bombed 11-1 Saturday night in Montreal, are 2-3-1 since star center Mario Lemieux was sidelined with a herniated disc in his back that may have ended his season. 

Hull shattering records in race to stardom 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Milestones are whizzing by like mile mark­ers on the interstate for Brett Hull of the St. Louis Blues. 
In February, Hull has passed the 50-goal mark, the Blues' single-season record and the career-best total of his father, Hall of Farner Bobby Hull. His next stop could be Jari Kurri's record of 71 goals by a right wing. 
"Getting 60 was nice," said Hull, who has an NHL-leading 61 goals after getting his fifth hat trick of the season in a 6-5 overtime loss Sunday to Montreal. ''I'm going to try and 
... score as many more as I can. "But you can't let yourself thinK about things like records." The latest achievement in Hull's dream season was beat­ing Bobby Hull's 58-goal total of 1968-69. He's the 13th player in league history to score 60 goals and he's still got
• 16 regular-season games left. 
Hull had 50 goals in 54 games. He now has 61 in 64. Bobby Hull's best never had a chance. 
"I guess it's like an honor, you could say," Hull said. "It's not only passing my dad, but it's joining guys like Guy Lafleur, Mike Bossy, Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux. "There are not many guys who have scored more than 60 goals." 
Hull's play has put the Blues, 
a .500 or worse team most of its history, in contending posi­tion and on the hockey map. Hockey has its pockets of ap­peal in the United States, but Hull has gone national with ap­pearances on the "Today Show" and "Late Night With David Letterman." 
But the spotlight hasn't stopped him. 
"I couldn't believe how hard the shot was," Canadiens goal­tender Patrick Roy said after Hull's 61st whizzed past him on Sunday to complete his hat trick and force overtime. "I still don't understand how it got in," Roy said. "It was a perfect shot." 
Roy's not the only one in awe. In only his third season, some observers say Hull is becoming as popular as Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux. 
Teams around the league are beginning to tailor their de­fenses to stop Hull, who has 37 more goals than Paul MacLean, the Blues' second-leading scorer. It hasn't made much difference; Hull has scored in 26 of his last 27 games. . 
Hull leads the league With 21 power-play goals and 303 shots on goal and has 97 points, also a career high. He also has a flair for the dramatic. 
Bobby Hull was in St. Louis on a one-night-only basis Feb. 6 in hopes of seeing No. 50. Brett complied with a third-pe­riod breakaway against Toronto, producing the NHL's only father-son 50-goal combi­nation. 
"That's the one you dream about," Hull said. 
Next was the Blues' record of 54 goals in a season, set by Wayne Babych in 1980-81. Five games later, a hat trick-all in the first 6:30 of the second pe­riod-against Quebec Feb. 15 gave Hull 55 as Babych watched. 

SENIOR FORMAL 
SPRING RAFFLE WINNERS 
BID: Laura Masotti BID: Patty Haddad DINNER: Mefissa Stapleton TUX: Kathy Revane 
TUX: Anaie Bellanca
·­
DON'T FORGET, BID SALES: FEBRUARY 27, 28 AND MARCH I 
Johnson opened the scoring at 5:39 of the second period on a 4-on-2 rush. Johnson one­timed Mark Recchi's drop pass from the high slot into the right corner of the net. 
Petit, booed each time he touched the puck for demand­ing to be traded over the week­end, got his 1Oth of the season at 7:02, tapping Brent Severyn's pass past goalie Wendell Young from the side of 
the net. It was Severyn's first point in 21 NHL games. 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 
Bourque put the Penguins ahead 1:26 into the third period when he scored from a scram­ble in front of goalie Scott Gordon. But Sakic stole the puck from Pittsburgh's Barry Pederson at the Penguins' blue line and fed McRae, who jammed it in at 8:14 for a 2-2 tie. 
Quebec defenseman Bryan Fogarty was ejected by referee Ron Hoggarth in the first pe­riod for high-sticking Pittsburgh's Bob Errey. 
, 

""" 
_-Ihe Obsenrer~== 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by Friday, March 2 to Colleen Cronin. For further information, contact Colleen Cronin at 239-5303. 
\... ~ 
The Thomas J. White Center, Right to Life, The Center for Civil and Human Rights and the Center for Social Concerns Present. .. 
Two lectures with anti-war and pro-life activist and writer 
Juli Loesch Wiley: 
ITlJWCB CDwCB(flnCBmCBCB# 
(B~ C000CDwc00IDCBffiCBCB 
12:15 p.m. Law School Courtroom 

7:30p.m. Montgomery Theatre Lafortune Student Center 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1ST 

--~---------~­
----------~ --------------~-~---~ 

Tuesday, February 27, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD

LECT'URE CIRCUIT Tuesday ACROSS 31 Chat 63 Cribs 
33 Nodule of stone 

1 Mimic 64 Evangelist
3:30p.m. Lecture, "Meehanistic Modeling of Two-Phase 
36Abbr. at Roberts

5 Bell and Kettle 
Flow in Vertical Pipes," Professor Nick Sylvester, Dean of Kennedy8 Yearned 65Aunt in
Engineering, University of Akron. Room 356 Fitzpatrick, 
37 Emulates a 
"Oklahoma!"

Refreshments Room 181 at 3 p.m. Sponsored by Dept. of 13 Brood cheerleader Chemical Engineering. 14 Stone s6 Collections of 
40 One-tenth of XXX 
sayings

6:30 p.m. University Counseling Center Workshop con­15 Archie or Grace 
411talo-, Italian

tinues, "Career /Major Decision Making." Room 300 Uni­16 Certain test Fascist leader 67 Catch a thief versity Counseling Center. 
17 Arab chief 44"See-, sa"Just-": 18 Cat---tails 
alligator" Nancy Reagan 

47 Brigham or C:AMPUS Robert 
19 Trickery 69 Roman 
household god22 Pokey

7 p.m. Film, "Red Desert." Annenberg Auditorium. 50 Altar boy 
23 Polar or ice 10 "-boyl"
Sponsored by Dept. of Communication and Theatre. Ad­51 Fortify
follower mission. 54 Charpoy
24 Worker for a
7 p.m. IHSAA Basketball Sectionals. JACC Arena. DOWN 
company 55 Overwhelm 
7 p.m. "The Courage of our 'Convictions'" series, 
26 Plotted 56 Olio 1 Shanghai nurse
"Odessey of Solomon Northrup," Patricia Washington, 
30 Rapid in a river 61 Standards 2 Not much, in
Director M.I.N.T. Carrol Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Mexico

Sponsored by Justice Education Series. 7 p.m. Roman Polanski's "MacBeth." Cushing Hall. 3 The "Aeneid," 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE e.g.
7:30 p.m. "Viaggie in ltalia" Movie series AIAS/ND. Room 206 Architecture Building. $1.00 Admission. 
4 Solves a 
"weighty"

9:15p.m. Films, "Great Blondino," "The Sunshine Sis~ 
problem

ters." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Dept. of 

5 Ott. note

Communication and Theatre. Admission. 14 Piquant 34-of Worms: 48 Certain degree 6 Movie 1521
20 Identical 49 Worldwide 

restaurateur 351reland, to a MENU 21 Resort of a sort 51 Sea birds 
Gael 25 Box for fruit 38Mauna-52 Scratch.
7 Plays the banjo 
8 Latin I word 39 It has a "sweet

Notre Dame 26 Plant disease 53 Suburb of 
9 Kind of table smell" MinneapolisChicken Romano 27 Pedro's face . 42 Gondoliers

10 Giddy or 57 Growl

Beef Stew/Biscuit haughty 28 Tumult 43 "Include me -":Sam 58 Mild oath 
Sea Strips 

""'-'-"......._._ ~~:H~.:;+:::.l 11 Athlete Banks or 29 What Caesar 
Goldwyn

Three Cheese Croissant Nevers cast 59 Pace 
45 Chicago so Actress Raines 
-=+=;..F+=-1 12 Steel-plow 32 Bridge expert attraction inventor Culbertson 46 City in central Pa. 62 Hit sign 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

-.. 

~ 
~ ~ 
~ BOOKSTORE ~ 
~ TONIGHT BASKETBALL~ 
1

! Late Sign-ups: ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Sara Vogan: Scenes from tlie ~ 
~~t~ ~ ~ 
~ ~~~ adJ 9-{otne;front Tuesday and Wednesday ~ ~ -and 5:00 to 7:00 pm ~ ­
~ ·.,)&\ . ~ 


~ e~"'~ S.U.B. Office ~ ~ ~ Melissa l,ritchard: Spirit Seizures 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ ~ $5 ~ 
~ Hesburgh Library Auditorium Fee: .00 r:~-"~-o ~ 
~ :tl\0~~ ~ 
~ 8:30pm ~\)0~ \) ~ 
~ ~ 
-

Sports 
Tuesday, February 27, 1990 

Victory over Xavier costly for Irish 
Liebscher hurts ankle as women gun down Musketeers 


By STEVE MEGARGEE "(Liebscher) has an ankle sup­Associate Sports Editor port in her shoe. This is the first time she's turned it all 
Muffet McGraw will have to year. Karen (Robinson) already hope that seven is a lucky num­has an ankle brace on. We'll ber for her Irish women's bas­have to start passing that ketball team during the next around." week or so. Despite extending its injured 
With less than nine minutes reserve list, the Irish also con­remaining in Monday night's tinued to dominate the MCC. 85-61 win over Midwest The victory over Xavier ex­Collegiate Conference rival tended Notre Dame's overall Xavier, Irish guard Sara win streak to eight games, and Liebscher injured her ankle the Irish have won 19 straight while trying to rebound a conference games dating to last missed free throw. Liebscher, season. The most recent win, who averages 9. 9 points per however, was something less game, figures to be out for the than remarkable. next seven to nine days, which "I thought we looked awful," means she will miss Thursday said McGraw, who stands one night's game with conference win away from her third con­foe Dayton. secutive 20-win season at Notre 
Notre Dame (19-6 overall, Dame. "This was one of the 14-0 in MCC play) already was worst games we've played in a down to an eight-person roster while. We've had so much time after losing players earlier in between games that we're just the season to injuries and aca­not sharp out there." demics. Notre Dame had not played 
"And then there were seven," since a 78-48 rout of Saint McGraw said after the game. Louis last Tuesday. 
Women improve to 5-3 on the season with weekend success on home court 
By BARBARA MORAN Louderback also noted the Sports Writer play of the Irish singles teams, which won an amaz­
The Notre Dame women's ing five games or more per tennis team slammed four match over the weekend. opponents at Eck Pavilion Louderback credited the last weekend. raising its sudden success of his team record from a mediocre 1-3 to its tough schedule, which to a respectable S-3 in the included harsh losses to space of three days. Texas and Texas A&M two 
Notre Dame's first con­weeks ago. quest took place Friday, "Playing down in Texas with the Irish beating Illinois wasn't fun," said the coach. 7-2. Kansas State came "We played strong teams next, falling to the Irish and got beat. But I think it Saturday morning by a score helps playing those strong of 6-3, and was followed by teams, because then when a 9-0 afternoon rout of you get up against these Drake University. Notre non-top-20 teams you find Dame closed out the that the ball doesn't come weekend on Sunday with a back so often." strong 8-1 victory over Miami of Ohio. After three straight week­
Irish coach Jay ends of action, the Irish will Louderback had nothing but take a much-needed rest praise for his team's per­next weekend, and will re­formance. sume play in California over 
"We had all twelve players spring break. Over break, in the first three matches, the team will first face and everybody had at least University of California at one win," said Louderback. Santa Barbara, followed by "Everybody played really matches with top-five teams well." UCLA and Pepperdine. 
Xavier (12-13, 7 -8) was with­out leading scorer Kim Blanton, who bruised a rib last week in a 75-54 loss to Butler. Without the sharpshooting Blanton (48 percent from three-point range) on the court, the Musketeers shot blanks from the field all night. 
"We missed her; she's our main outside threat," said Xavier coach Mark Ehlen, whose team hit just 26-of-72 shots (36 percent) for the evening. "Notre Dame stayed in a zone, and we weren't getting any good shots." 
The Irish led 39-24 at half­time, thanks in large part to the inside punch of Krissi Davis and Margaret Nowlin. The two forwards combined for 17 points and 10 rebounds in the first half. Davis eventually got her sixth double-double of the season with 17 points and 12 rebounds, both game highs, 
The Observer/John Cluver 
see HOOPS 1page 15 Krissi Davis poured in 17 points and added 12 rebounds in leading the Notre Dame women's basketball team to a win over Xavier last night. 
Another respected opponent bites the dust as men's tennis records win over Gophers 
shots on all nine points, and thwarting the tal­
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer ented efforts of Anthony Cruz, who had been 
ranked 13th in the nation as a high school ten­
The Notre Dame men's tennis team travelled nis player. to Minneapolis to serve the Golden Gophers of In doubles action, the Irish tandem of David Minnesota a cliff-hanging upset this weekend DiLucia and Mike Wallace upended Brian 
behind the dazzling performances of David Uihlein and Kevin Werwie 6-1, 7-5, while the DiLucia, Ron Rosas, Andy Zurcher, and Ryan third Irish doubles combination, Andy Zurcher Wenger. and Ryan Wenger, trounced Phillippe LeBlanc 
Minnesota, which had been ranked 25th in the and Dominic Rodriguez 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Notre 
nation, and had a reputation of being difficult Dame's second doubles team of Chuck Coleman 
to beat at home, did not fall without a fight, and Mark Schmidt fell to the furious Gopher 
duo of Rayfer Leach and Anthony Cruz, 6-4, 6-3. 
however. 
In singles, sophomore David DiLucia of "''m really excited about the way the team is 
Norristown, Pennsylvania defeated Minnesota's competing and fighting through these matches," first singles player Brian Uihlein, by a score of said Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "The 6-1, 6-2. Also winning in the singles bracket for team has been able to come back from some the Irish was third singles man Mark Schmidt, difficult situations, scratching and clawing who beat Kevin Werwie 6-3, 6-7, 7-5. Schmidt back. had been down in the third set, but staged a "Minnesota has only lost two home matches in 
tremendous rally, winning the next five games the last two years, and they have been ranked in 
the Top 25 for the last eight years. They are a
and the match. The Irish also got victories at the fifth and team that is used to winning at home, but we 
sixth singles positions, as freshman Andy just went out and took it away from them. The 
Zurcher outdueled Rick Naumoff of the Golden poise that our kids are showing is very_ gratify­
Gophers and freshman Ron Rosas battled back ing, considering that we've been playmg four 
repeatedly to stun Anthony Cruz. Like Schmidt, freshmen and one sophomore." 
Zurcher found himself struggling in the third Notable bright spots in the Irish weekend was 
set, but fought back, outhustling and outscrap­the play of Mike Wallace and Ryan Wenger, who 
ping his opponent. compete only in doubles matches. "Both Mike 
Ron Rosas provided his own version of Irish and Ryan were able to walk into their matches 
endurance, as he rebounded from being down 
nine match points, connecting with passing see TENNIS I page 14 

Eastern schools upset ND fencers 
By CHRIS FILLIO
.. haps a few good individuals from
Sports Writer 
Rutgers and Princeton. However, when 
If the Irish fencing teams seemed to the Tigers were done roaring, Princeton have been cruising through the season came away with a 17-10 victory. like a well-oiled machine, then they may "We totally overlooked Princeton," have come to the harsh realization this Irish foil captain Joel Clark said. "All weekend that perhaps they were a week we had been concentrating on quart low. Yale. We stomped them, but then got 
Placed in a difficult situation, the surprised by (Princeton)." Irish found themselves scheduled for a Saturday morning began on a high home and an away meet-on the same note, with a storm brewing inside the day. The decision was made to send the Joyce ACC fieldhouse as the Irish domi­top fencers to Princeton, N.J. to face nated Purdue, Michigan State, the powerful Eastern schools there. The Lawrence and Eastern Michigan. remaining team members competed at On the east coast, Notre Dame made home against several Midwestern col­relatively easy work of Yale, disposing leges. of the Elis 16-11, with the women tally­
"The events this weekend (at ing a 10-6 win. But then the men fell to Princeton) were certainly disappoint­the Tigers, and the women lost to a ing," said head coach Mike DeCicco, strong squad from Farleigh-Dickinson who saw the Irish drop their first (6-10), though the latter was not over­match in recent memory. "I feel sorry looked like the Princeton fiasco. for the players, especially the seniors Finishing out the day, the men de­on the team, who have to leave with feated Rutgers (18-9), while the women that blemish on an otherwise admirable took care of Princeton (14-2) and record." Rutgers (15-1) quite handily. 
Going into the weekend, the Irish Of special concern was the perfor­trained with the intention of meeting a mance-or lack thereof-of the. men's strong contingency from Yale, and per-see FOILED I paQe 13 


-

