'~­
VOL. XXIII NO. 90 Thursday, February 15, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Pasin/Tombar capture majority 
By PETER LOFTUS News Writer 
Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar defeated Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith in the student body president and vice-president run-off election Wednesday. 
"We're ecstatic with the re­sults." Pasin said. 
The ticket of Pasinfrombar received 2,316 votes. 60.47 percent of the ballots. The ticket of Sanchez/Smith drew in 1,514 votes. 39.53 percent of the vote. The total number of students who voted was 3,830. 
"Fred and I would like to commend Vinny and Melissa for a line race," Pasin said. "We would like to thank all the people who helped us in the campaign and supported 
us." ''I'm happy the campaign's over," Tombar said. 
Pasin and Tombar, who take office on April 1, ex­pressed disappointment with the way The Observer treated 
the campaign, referring to the editorial which ran in Monday's Observer which de­nounced the tickets of Pasinffombar and Sigi Loya and Raja Singh for forcing Sanchez and Smith to remove table tents from the dining halls. 
"Certain members of The Observer's editorial staff upset us," Pas in said. 
"We were, as a ticket," Tombar said, "along with Sigi and Raja accused of petty politicking." He accused some of the members of the editorial staff of pract~ing 

The Observer/ Bradford J. Boehm 
see Election/ page 4 


The Observer I Dave Short Grinning after winning are the next Vice President and President of the Notre Dame student body, (from 
left) Fred Tombar and Rob Pasin. They won by over 60 percent in Wednesday's run-off election. 
Countries respond to German reunification 
LONDON (AP) -An agree­ment giving the four Allies of World War II an advisory role in German reunification allayed fears in many countries about a military resurgence, but some anxieties remained Wednesday. 
Poland, worried about its 

• Historians' react to reunification I page 3 
borders, demanded a role in talks on the security aspects of unification. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, who had not hidden her unease about a united Germany, felt "much happier" after the agreement Tuesday in Ottawa, Canada, to hold the six-power talks, her aides said. 
"We were worried there wasn't a framework in wh'i.ch we and the Russians and other interested parties could actually discuss the external side of this," Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said. "Now we have that framework ... we are much happier." 
Under the agreement, the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and France -the Allies that conquered Nazi Germany and still occupy Berlin -will confer with both Germanys on the security ramifications of a single Germany. 
Officials of East Germany and West Germany will negotiate after East German elections March 18, then join the Allies to focus on the "external aspects ... including the issues of secu­rity of the neighboring states," the Ottawa announcement said. 
A six-power agreement would be presented to a 35-nation summit before the end of the year. 
The Soviet Union, whose ca­sualties in World War II were heaviest, said Wednesday its sensitivities should be taken into account. 
"We have a psychological trauma. We lost 26 million" people in the war, Foreig11 Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov told a news briefing. He added, however, that he be­lieved Europe was changing for the better. 
Premier Tadeusz Mazowiecki of Poland said at the end of a three-day visit to Britain: "We want to be present whenever the question of the security of Germany's neighbors is dis­cussed. Our stand is that our security matters cannot be set­tled by proxy for us. We must be present." 
Mazowiecki said Poland wants a treaty guaranteeing its borders, which embrace terri­tory populated by ethnic Germans and annexed from Germany at the end of World War II. No peace treaty was signed, so Poland has no for­mal guarantees. 
West Germany has said a uni­fied Germany would respect the border and make no territorial claims. 
Israeli officials referred to a stiltement Monday by Foreign Minister Moshe Arens that the Jewish state puts its faith in democracy. 
African National Congress demands black voting rights 
SOWETO, South Africa (AP) 
The African National Congress insists on full black voting rights. but it is open to compromise on other constitu­tional issues and to considering guarantees for whites, Nelson Mandela said Wednesday. 
Mandela, who plans to con­sult soon with ANC leaders in Zambia, did not elaborate on what compromises might be reached. 
"I think it be most presump­tuous of me to speak for the ANC," he said. "It is the ANC who would decide what com­promises it should make.... We are ready for honorable com­promises without surrendering our principles." 
During a conversation with a small group of reporters, Mandela was asked whether the ANC was willing to negotiate about its demand for a one­person, one-vote system, which would lead to black majority 
Coors and ND don't mix 
This is the second in a two­part series dealing with Notre Dame's alcohol policy. 
By JOE MOODY News Writer 
Beer drinkers at the Orange Bowl may have noticed the spe­cial edition Coors cans being sold around the stadium bear­ing the infamous Notre Dame golden helmet. 
This would appear to be in violation with the University's alcohol policy in Du Lac pro­hibiting the association or promotion of alcohol by Notre Dame. 
When The Observer called the Coors Brewing Company in Golden, Colorado to inquire about the incident, a spokesperson first said that she would imagine that Coors had received permission from Notre Dame to distribute the cans. 
However, later she called back and claimed that Coors did not need to get permission from Notre Dame's administra­tion and therefore did not do so. 
"The University would not have approved such a use. The licensing for the Orange Bowl goes through a licensing agent of the Orange Bowl. However, we had to approve all designs. There was never any design with Coors Beer in it so I find it safe to say it was an unautho­rized use. [The beer cans] were not licensed." said the Assistant General Counsel at Notre Dame, Carol Kaesebier. 
Coors said they received permission to use the Orange Bowl logo from American Express, the sponsors of the 
see Coors/ page 6 
rule. 
"That is the nature of com­promising -you compromise on fundamental issues," he said, but did not give the im­pression the ANC was prepared to alter its position on voting. 
The 71-year-old black leader praised President F.W. de Klerk, who legalized the ANC two weeks ago and released him from prison Sunday after 27 years. Because of de Klerk's "the possibility of a settlement is always there." 

"Compromises must be made in respect to every issue, as long as that compromise is in the interest not only of one population group, but the coun­try as whole," Mandela told re­porters at his four-room home, where he slept Tuesday night for the first time since his im­prisonment in 1962. 
Mandela has said since his National Congress wants to ease the fears of South Africa's 5 million whites about domina­tion by the 28 million blacks. 

He has expressed opposition, however, to the government concept of "group rights," which would give special legal protection to whites and other minorities. 
"We are aware of the fears of the whites in the country of be-

APPhoto 

The masters of the drug war 
President Bush turns to his drug czar, William Bennet, to give him a pen after he signed a new Unitea Nations agreement to help international drug traffic. (From left) Attorney General_ Dick Thornburg, Bennet, Joint Chiefs ot Staff Chairman Gen. Colin Powell and Health and Human Serv1ces Secretary Dr. Louis Sullivan. 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Just say no to paranoia about 
alcohol, drugs 
When 8-year-old 
Haley Woodfin took 

an unopened can of 
"Billy Beer," a collec­
tors item named for 

President Carter's 
late brother, to 
"show-and-tell," she 
was suspended from 

school for three days, Joe Moody 
forced to undergo News Copy Editor 
counseling for illegal 

possession of an alcoholic beverage and the 
police were notified. 

Haley will no longer see the Billy Beer as 
just a collector's item, but as some evil 
with"no" stamped on it, turning innocence 
into intrigue and increasing her curiosity. 
Do the masters of the alcohol and drug 
war suspect that adolescent substance 
abusers haven't heard Nancy Reagan tell 
them to "Just say no," or haven't yet seen 
the public service message where the egg is 
frying on a pan proclaiming, "This is your 
brain on drugs?" 

They have, but they've also witnessed 
"authorities" like Kitty Dukakis drink 
wood-grain alcohol in her bout with alco­
holism, and "heros" like Len Bias drop dead 
of cocaine overdoses. 

Last summer while in a European 
country with no drinking age, I noticed 
many of the teenagers didn't drink alcohol, 
but beverages like Coke simply out of 
preference. 

When they did drink alcohol, it was usually 
in moderation, often with their parents, in a 
healthy environment. 

There was no indication of weekend 
"keggers" where everyone flocks in just to 
get "smashed," or the glamorous effect 
created by being illicit. 

Prohibition was unsuccessful for adults 
70 years ago. Why should it be successful 
for kids today? 

Not that America should repeal its drinking age, if it were, a couple of generations would pass before we would learn how to drink responsibly. 
If I Ialey had just shown the Billy Beer and then taken it home, it would have been long forgotten, without any exclamation mark. 
"We want to help young people under­stand that alcohol and drugs are not ap­propriate," said the superintendent at Ha­ley's school. 
Understandable, but is alcohol suddenly "appropriate" at a specific age? For everyone? llow much? Why? This confusing message is enough to make one want to "head for the mountains." 
Haley's mother said, ''I'm furious. Haley took it for show and tell. She didn't run into a closet and pop it open." 
However, when she does get a little curi­ous, or is inevitably offered alcohol, it won't be one Billy Beer, it won't be by the ideal role model and it won't be at show-and-tell. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WEATHER 

Forcast for noon, Thursday Feb. 15 
Lines V\ow high lem~ratures. 

Yesterday's high: 57 Yesterday's low : 25 Nation's high: 88 (Lajitas, Texas) Nation's low: -27 (International Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy and warmer 
Thursday with freezing 
rain and sleet changing to 
rain by late morning. 
Highs 40 to 45. Cloudy 
Thursday night with rain 
and a chance of thunder­
showers. Lows around 
40.

FRONTS: 
."'T"""r • • • 
WARM srMlaJ).RY

/ cao e 1990 A<:cu· W£-at"*', Inc 
p,.._~IJI 
® © m ~ m 0 ~ 
"" 


IIIGN LOW 5HO'MRS T-STORI.IS FLURRifS SHOW ICE SUNNY Pf CLOUDY CIO(.JOY
FV."' 
OF INTEREST 

Alumni Senior Club/Senior Formal Committee will "Office Visits/Plant Trips Workshop" will focus announce the winning numbers to the Senior Formal on planning ahead for the ali-day second interview. Spring Raffie in The Observer tomorrow. Applications for Conducted by Marilyn Bury, asst. director of Career and next year available in Student Activities Office. Placement Services from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the llesburgh 
Library Lounge. The Charity Ball Committee will be meeting t~night 
at 7 p.m. at the Sorin Room in LaFortune. All those mter­Returning ND volunteers from Chile, Margy Pfeil, ested in being on the 1990 Committee are welcome. Sylvia Elixavida and Bill Cavanaugh, will be at the CentPr for Social Concerns at 7 p.m. tonight to speak of their 
Internships and Employment Opportuni!ies i~­two and half years of volunteer work in Santiago, Chile, formation night with Executive Management Associates m with the Holy Cross Associates Program.human services companies will be on Feb. 15, 7:30p.m. at 
the Center for Social Concerns. The International Festival Video will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. at Theodore's, LaFortune Student Price Waterhouse will give a presentation tonight Center. at 8 p.m. in the ND Room at LaFortune Student Center. 
WORLD 

The Soviet Union will join the worldwide Special Two Ethiopian rebel groups on Wednesday etaimed Olympics for mentally retarded children and adults, and they killed hundreds of army troops and wounded its national program stands to become the largest among hundreds more in fighting since last week. A communique more than 80 participating countries, officials said by the Eritrean People's Liberation Front also said the Wednesday. The Soviet decision to join the organization, government cut off electricity to Massawa, a Hed Sea port which currently enrolls 750,000 mentally handicapped they claim to have captured.The Eritrean rebels have b1~en athletes worldwide and is supported by 500,000 volun­fighting since 1962 for the independence of Ethiopia's teers, followed talks in Moscow last fall. northernmost province. 
NATIONAL 

Cupid had a willing accomplice in Judge Pro-life legislation advanced in Michigan's Senate Bernard Goodheart of Philadelphia, who married about on Wednesday when a bill was overwhelmingly passed two dozen couples in his courtroom in a Valentine's Day requiring minors to get permission from a parent or 
tradition. "We never know just how many are going to judge before having an abortion. The legislation, adopted show up," he said, pinning a red carnation on his robe 29-8, now goes to the House, which is expected to also 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff:  
Systems Molly Schwartz Cesar Capella  News Janice O'Leary Joe Moody  Sports Moll y Mahoney Production  
Business Kelly Tuthill Monica Yant  Aalenl Shonda Wilson Fran Moyer Alison Cocks  Greg Tice Andy Morrow Viewpoint  
Graphics Bradford Boehm  Ad Design Val Poletto  Kevin Reisch Katie Foster John Cronin  
Lisa Gunsorek  
Ryan Roberts  
Jeanne Naylor  

Quinn Satepauhoodle 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
before the first wedding party arrived. "We don't turn pass the bill. anybody away." 
INDIANA 

A witness identified Tuesday that an em­ployee of a Mishawaka center was worried she had suffocated a teenager while restraining her. Edward Seager said that Catherine Boyer, an employee of the Family and Children's Center, ex­pressed concern that she may have suffocated the 17 -year-old girl. Boyer, pleading innocent, is ac­cused of reckless homicide. 
A 14-year-old Indiana boy who rescued a friend being mauled by a 94-pound dog was among 11 people honored Wednesday for their heroism and community activities. Ryan Eberhard of Fort Wayne, Ind., said he acted on instinct because "my best friend was in danger" when a neighborhood dog broke loose from its chain and attacked a group of children. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Volume in shares 
138.53 Million 

NYSE Index 

183.21 {)-0.36 
S&P Composite 

332.01 {)-0.99 
Dow Jones Industrials 

2624.32 {)-.22 
Precious Metals Gold .J} $3.20 to $416.70/ oz. 
Silver{} .3¢ to $5.33/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On February 15: e In 1764: The city of St. Louis was established. e In 1842: A private mail service in New York City intro­duced the first adhesive 

postage stamps. e In 1879: President llayes signed a bill to allow women attorneys to argue cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. e In 1898: The U.S. battleship Maine blew up in Havana Har­bor, killing 260 crew members and escalating tensions with Spain. e In 1933: President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt escaped an attempt on his life in Miami, when shots fired at him by an assailant missed. However. Chicago Mayor Anton Cermak was killed. 
----·-----~--­
Thursday, February 15, 1990 The Observer page 3 


Fear of stro~ng reunited Germany runs deep 
WASHINGTON (AP) Historians say misgtvmgs about a reunited Germany are understandable but the world has more to fear from a power vacuum in the center of Europe. Young Germans, one adds, are not about "to slip out of their Adidas running shoes and pull on jackboots." 
For the most part, the histo­rians said an East Germany collapsing into chaos would be far more d-angerous than a united Germany. 
"The only alternative to re­unification," said Henry Ashb) Turner of Yale, is an East Germany in ruins, "a basket case. a Bangladesh of Europe." 
Added Richard Breitman of American University, author of three books on German history: "One Germany is not only inevitable, but given the suc­cessful record of West Germany over the last 40 years, my feel­ing it is better than having a regime in chaos." 
The historians spoke as the rush toward unification, which ing, 'Heil!"' 
Gerhard Weinberg of the University of North Carolina, considered a leading historian concentrating on the Nazi era, cautioned that reunification, if mishandled, still could prove explosive .. 
University of Chicago histo­rian Michael Geyer, a native of Germany, expressed another apprehension. 
He said he feared that the creation of a "strong, sovereign nation in the center of Europe" could reverse a more important development ­the 40-year drive toward an in­tegrated Europe in which in­dustries, banks, trade unions 

started with East Germans Germanies Since 1945," said and even government ministries 
flooding West after the collapse Germans have "no significant collaborated across borders. 
of the Berlin Wall last interest in territorial revisions. 

November, won the sanction of Those misgivings are mis­Gordon Craig, emeritus pro­
the four World War II allies -placed. I don't think there is fessor at Stanford, said the di­
the United States, Britain, any chance that the young men vision of Germany has been the 
France and the Soviet Union -of Germany are going to slip basis of a peace settlement 
who divided a defeated out of their Adidas running "which worked pretty well" but 
Germany 45 years ago. shoes and pull on jackboots was "abnormal and sooner or Turner, author of "The Two and start running around say-later had to be corrected." 



Dorm policies for JPW remain inconsistent 
By BRADLEY GALKO News Writer 
Dorm policies regarding so­cial gatherings and parietals will change this weekend-but only for some dorms. 
The rule changes will be in response to Junior Parents Weekend (JPW) which runs from Feb. 16 to 18. 
Some students challenge the fairness of the changes which affect all on-campus students for the benefit of only juniors and their parents. The inconsis­tent nature of the changes also bothers some students. 


Platonic Valentine's dinner 
Three friends, (from left) Lisa Claussen, Missy Arnett, and Laurie Donohoe of Saint Mary's enjoy a candlelight dinner in honor of Saint Valentine Wednesday night 
The extent and nature of the changes will be at the individual discretions of each hall's staff. "(There is) not a University policy as far as any (rule) changes for JPW," said a rep­resentative of the Office of Student Affairs. 
The response of individual dorms has varied from no changes in the rules to changes on social gatherings to even changes in parietals. 
Dillon is one hall, for in­stance, that is not making any changes for the weekend. "We're not changing anything," 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
said Fr. Joseph Carey, rector of Dillon. Farley Hall, likewise, will have few rule modifica­tions. "I haven't thought of any prior constraints on people," said Sr. Mary Louise Gude, rec­tress. "I hadn't thought ... to change anything because basi­cally I think people around here are pretty responsible," she 
added. 
She said that she would en­courage the residents of Farley to "monitor their behavior ac­cordingly" in light of the week­end. Fr. Wilfred Borden, rector of Pangborn, expressed a simi-Jar attitude. "I expect that ev­erybody will kind of realize this is juniors' weekend and kind of respect that," he said. His pol­icy will be slightly stricter than Gude's, however. "There is to be no parties or gatherings," he said. 

In regard to parietals for the weekend Borden said, "I haven't received any informa­tion from the Student Affairs office, and I was just waiting to see if they are going to give a universal (rule)." Some dorms, 
see JPW/ page 4 

Students take a longer time to graduate 
WASHINGTON (AP) Earning a college degree has become a six-year to 10-year chore for most students, ac­cording to a study released Wednesday. 
The National Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities said only 15 per­cent of college students com­plete a bachelor's degree four years after high school. Six years after high school gradua­tion, only 46 percent of the stu­dents who went straight on to college had earned a degree. 
Counting both those who went straight to college and those who took some time off after high school, 55 percent had either earned a degree or were still working on one six years after high school gradua­tion. 
"The picture of the average American college student today is not the picture that many of us have in our minds, based upon our own experiences 15, 20 and 25 years ago," said Oscar Porter, author of the study. "It's clear that complet­ing an undergraduate college degree in four years is not the norm in either the public or in­dependent sector." 
"While students in the inde­pendent sector are more likely to have completed their degrees in the traditional four years than students in the public sec­tor, the overall degree comple­tion rate offers little solace for either sector," he added. 


Economic injustice declared a sin 
By DAVID CERTO News Writer 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton led a discussion entitled "Citizen Action and Christian Witness" at noon Wednesday in the Law School. 
The lecture, sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies, was part of the Brown Bag lecture series. It marked Gumbleton's third ap­pearance as one of the Institute's visiting fellows. 
Gumbleton opened the dis­cussion by describing the Church's view that economic injustice is sinful. He said that 
Junior Parents Weekend 
~@[fl)©~rlt~ 
featuring: 
.,. 


, enantsans 
lm Notre Dame's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
When: Saturday, February 17 1 :30 &3:00 pm 
Where: Annenber!g Auditorium Snite Musuem 
All Are Welcomed! Juniors are encouraged to bring their Parents! 
while individual sin is often dis­cussed, collective or social sin is frequently overlooked. 
Citing figures of increasing poverty throughout the south­ern hemisphere and this coun­try, Gumbleton called on each person to make economic re­form a personal objective. "The systems of repression won't change unless you and I make it our priority to change them," he said. 
Third world debt and the control of both the prices of manufactured goods and raw materials, Gumbleton stated, allow the richest countries to continue to amass wealth while the least developed countries sink farther into poverty. "The oppressed nations," Gumbleton asserted, "have the responsibil­ity to demand their rights, and their repressors have the obli­gation to change." 

An internationally prominent activist for peace and social justice, Gumbleton is the presi­dent of Pax Christi-U.S.A. His writings have won him numer­ous awards, including the Justice and Peace medal from Bonaventure University and the Public Citizen of the Year award from the National Association of Social Workers. 
CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES NOT JUST HEARERS OF THE WORD 
Vatican II did much to restore the rightful place of the liturgy of the word in our common worship. This presentation will focus on the word of the Lord as an entree to living the 

_life in community. 
FATHER JOHN ALLYN 
MELLOH, S.M. was the 
director of the Notre Dame 
Center for Pastoral Liturgy 

before accepting his present 
position in the Department of 
Theology where he directs the 
John S. Marten Program in 
Homiletics and Liturgics. 

Sponsored by Campus Ministry. Sun., Feb. 18 & Tue., Feb 20. 
For more Information, call Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sr. Mary Curran, CSC 239-5242 7-8:30p.m. 

Senior Art Major Jocelyne Desmarais working diligently on one of her Senior Comprehensive Paintings. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
"petty journalism." 

"Wn think that thn mnmbers 
of thn t~ditorial staff took the 
issues all too lightly and made 
thn nlnction campaign and un­
dnsirabln sight," Tombar said. 
"Wn hopn that next year the 
staff would be willing to coop­
nrate with us." 

"Wn'll bt~ willing to cooperate with tlwm (the editorial staff)."added Pasin. 
SanchBz and Smith were 
pleased with thfl campaign and 
said that thny will still be in­
volvml in Stu<l!mt Govnrnment 
nnxt year. 

"Wn'd likn to thank all the 
pnopln that supportnd us." 
Sanchez said. 

"We had a lot of supporters," 
Smith said. 

Sanchez and Smith said that 
thn controvPrsy surrounding 
tlw table tents had a m~gative 
eiTeet on "students' idea of the 
nlnction process." 
ground running," said Pasin. 

"The first thing I'm going to do," Pasin said, "is grant a presidential pardon to the Ju­nior Class for being on proba­tion." 
Pasin said that he and Tombar also plan to distribute questionnaires to the student body "to get an accurate survey of what they see as important for the coming year." 
One of the main objectives, according to Tombar, will be to institute a "corporate-spon­sored lecture series." 
Pasin saw dass sizes and the male-female relationship at ND as two of the most pressing problems among the student 

Rights 
continued from page 1 

ing dominated by blacks, and we are addressing that very se­riously and very earnestly," he said Wednesday. 
"I am convinced that, in dis­cussions between the ANC and the government, we will be able to find a solution which will be accepted by everybody, black and white." 
De Klerk's National Party is committed to negotiating a new constitution within five years extending political rights to blacks. Gerrit Viljoen, the con­stitutional development minis­ter, conceded Tuesday the re­sulting government "is unlikely to have the National Party in control," 
In Lusaka, Zambia, the ANC leadership began a two-day meeting expected to focus on Mandela's future role and a re-· sponse to de Klerk's initiatives. 
ANC officials have acknowl­edged they were caught off guard Feb. 2 when de Klerk lifted a 30-year ban on the guerrilla movement and made other major concessions in a bid to get negotiations started. 
In recent months. Mandela had met frequently with senior government officials, including de Klerk, to discuss prospects for negotiations between them and the ANC. 
"My optimism has been strengthened" in those discus­sions, he said Wednesday. 
Thursday! February 15, 1990
The Observer 

Iceberg Debates continue 
JPW 
continued from page 3 

however, have not waited for the Office of Student Affairs to take the initiative for changing parietals. 
In announcing some of the strictest changes in dorm policy on campus, Morrissey's hall staff posted signs on all bath­room doors which read: "Attention All Seniors and Underclassmen: Parietals for this weekend are set for 12 
a.m. for both nights for .JPW. There will also be no gather­ings of any kind on both nights." 
S 0  M M E R S  6¢  
~heck Us Out!  G R A P H I C 5  copies  
../ Rolodex Cards.J Rosters "-Manuals.J Booklets  ../ Business Cards .J Envelopes "-Letterheads.J Resumes  tJ Roll Labels J Menus .J Invoices.J Registration Forms  ./ Legal Briefs.J Sales Literature "-Brochures.J Folders  
"Continuous.Forms J Book Markers  "Newsletters J Invitations  "Statements ..J Flyers  " Membership Cards ..! Contracts  
john S. Marten Program in . ~ 


52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-6991 

The following are the results of Round Two of the Iceberg Debates held Wednesday night. 
Resolved: That the ROTC programs at Notre Dame significantly conflict with its Christian Character and teachings. 
Aff Neg  at Walsh 1 Off-Campus I  
Aff Neg  Siegfried 0 at Holy Cross  2  
Aff Neg  Sorin 0 at Alumni  2  
Aff Neg  at Keenan Grace II 2  0  
Aff Neg  Off-Campus II 0 at Pasquerilla East  2  

Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg 
Aff Neg Dillon 0 at Breen-Phillips 2 

Fisher 1 at Lewis 

Knott 2 at Howard 0 
at Cavanaugh 0 Stanford 2 
at St. Edwards 2 Grace I 0 
Flanner I 0 at Morrisey 2 
at Pasquerilla West 2 Zahm 0 
Flanner II 2 at Badin 0 
at Farley 2 Carroll 0 
Pangborn at Lyons 1 



"Vinny and I plan on staying involved in student govern­ment," said Smith. "We're sin­cerely concerned about making change in the student body." 
"We'll create change through different avenues" than presi­dent and vice-president, Sanchez said. 
Pasin and Tombar take office April 1. and plan to "hit the body that they will need to ad­dress. 
Tombar said that there were certain inconsistencies that came out of the interpretations of the election campaign rules. 
"We'll ask Senate to revive the campaign rules and try to make them tighter and clearer." 

Themes ofEvangelization 
\umlt~~~ l••ln·twrr IX ttmllllt'."'''l· ll'bruarr .!O 
Not}ust Hearers ofthe Word 
Fr. John Melloh, S.M. Word as Entree to Livina 
Homiletics and Liturgics, Theology the Christian Life in Community 
Jmultl.l~ IHJrllar,J' 25 tmtl Tut•.wlm~ lt•lmutr,J• 27 
Preaching ChristJesus The Essential 
Fr. William Simmons, c.s.c. 

Mission ofthe Church 
Pastor, SacrwJ Hearl Parish \uml111. 1/un IJ ·I t/1/tl \11-tluntlt/1 llttrtb-
Cult How We Pray Tells Who We Are 
Fr. Mlchaelllima, Department of7'beokJgy \utttl111. llfll"l b .1; ttutllill'\tlt/1. Ita reb.!­
Creed Making the GoodNews Good 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Program ofL~Studies ''""'"I· lfnll.'iamlluntlal lfllll/11 
Code Moral Law or Moral Wisdom? 
Fr. jaaes llartdulell, c.s.c., DepartTMIII of7"b«JkJgy 
7-1:50 ,., lteenu-Stanionl Ch.pel 
lf••••al by the <Mike of Calllpu Mialltry ,_flrdler lnfGnllllon call Sr. M8ry Curran, c.s.c., 239-5242 C...,..Ministry, WJn Hall 
All are wekome 

Thursday, February 15, 1990 The Observer 
Supreme Soviet wary of proposal 
MOSCOW (AP) -President  Gorbachev's economic and so­ Gorbachev's government pow­ 
Mikhail Gorbachev appealed  cial reforms, including legaliza­ ers while further weakening the  
Wednesday for legislative  tion of private property.  Communist Party apparatus  
backing for a stronger presi­ However, the Kremlin leader­ that he is trying to reform.  
dency and said it was vital to  ship's proposal to call an  Gorbachev would have two  
his reforms, but wary lawmak­ emergency session of the  powerful instruments to im­ 
Prs refused to be stampeded  SupremP SoviPt's parent body,  plement his program of  
into setting a timetable.  the Congress of People's  "perestroika" -the party ap­ 
Once again. the 542-member  Deputies, to replace the office  paratus and the reinforced ma­ 
Supn~me Soviet proved itself a force to be reckoned with in the  now held by Gorbachev with a stronger WestPrn-style presi­ chinery of government.  
new Soviet political game,  dency met with raucous debate.  Vice President Anatoly  
which under Gorbachev has  "Unless democracy is  Lukyanov, who flanked  
shifted more from closed-door  strengthPned and ensured by  Gorbachev beneath a gilded  
sessions of tlw Kremlin leader­ corresponding mechanisms,  globe emblazoned with the  
ship to elected government  democracy will perish and we'll  hammer and sickle, recom­ 
bodies.  lose." Gorbachev angrily told  mended that lawmakers call the  
AftPr a two-month break. the  his critics.  Congress into session Feb. 27  
fledgling Soviet legislature re­ Otherwise, he said. the victors  to fortify the presidency and  
convenPd for the third time in  will be forces who want to  make other constitutional  
its less than one-year history.  "tighten the screws even tighter  -changes -including the  
Lawmakers approved a 22-item  than they were earlier."  planned abandonment of the  
agenda to dPbate bills designed  More power for the presi­ Communist Party's legally  
to put flesh on the skeleton of  dency would strengthen  guaranteed right to govern.  


Co-defendant of Noriega to plead guilty in drug-trafficking 
MIAMI (AI') -Eduardo Pardo, a eo-defendant of Manuel Noriega in the drug­trafficking casP against the fallnn Panamanian dictator. is scheduled to appear in court Thursday to plead guilty, it was learned Wednesday. 
Details of any plea bargain were not immediately known, but thP calendar for U.S. District Judge William lloeveler's court lists "Change of plea. Eduardo Pardo," and a courthouse source confirmed that Pardo was scheduled to plead. 
The 44-year-old pilot is ac­cused of conspiracy and making a flight with $800,000 in drug money from Fort Lauderdale to Panama in 1983. 
Pardo is one of six co-defen­dants in custody in the case, in­cluding Noriega, who is ac­cused of taking payoffs to pro­tect the cocaine trade. 
Pardo's attorney, Williami Meadows. could not immedi­ately be reached for comment. 
At a hearing earlier Wednesday, government and defense attorneys wrangled over what the defense said was a failure of the prosecution to turn over an inventory of mate­rials seized in Noriega's homes and offices in Panama. 
Noriega attorney Steven Kollin told Magistrate William Turnoff, "We haven't received the inventories and we feel we are being stonewalled. I feel we are dealing with two govern­ments -the military and the 
U.S. attorney's office." 
But Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Sullivan told Turnoff, "We have supplied a partial in­ventory and we are continuing to update all the time and they have been sent to Kollin." 
Kollin said he had not re­ceived the partial inventory. with his orders. Noriega was not at the hearing. 
Turnoff said that he felt the government was making a "good faith effort" to comply 
Sullivan said the inventory in­cludes items and documents taken from Noriega homes and offices. But he said the gov­ernment was appealing a part of Turnoffs order that encom­passed the overall military of­fices and not just Noriega's personal offices. 
Kollin also told the magis­trate that one of Noriega's homes in Panama City had been turned over to the Panamanian government and he feared ma­terial favorable to his client would be lost to the defense if given to Panamanian authori­ties. 
Outside the courtroom, Kollin said, "We have good reason to believe that some of this mate­rial concerns communications between General Noriega and 
U.S. officials and enforcement agencies." 
Indian airliner crashes near runway, killing 91 people 
NEW DELHI. India (AP)-An and charred and the nose was 
plane was on a demonstration An airline spokesman in New Indian Airlines Airbus jet that smashed across the grassy flight and flew too low and Delhi said there were at least had been in use only three plain adjacent to the airport. slowly over an airfield, hitting 17 foreigners on the flight. in­months crashed onto. a golf There was no immediate rea­some trees. cluding two Americans, a course and burned Wednesday son given for the cause of the The Airbus-320 is the first Frenchman, two Canadians, short of a runway in southern accident, which occurred about civilian airliner with a fully three Japanese and a Hong India. and 91 of the 146 people 1 p.m. Airport officials in computerized flight system, Kong man, all of whom sur­on board died, officials said. Bangalore, contacted by tele­which manufacturers say allow vived. 
The Airbus-320 grazed a phone, said the weather was for safer operation. dump of trees on its final ap­clear and there were no indica­Instead of the old control Information about the others proach to Bangalore airport tions of an emergency on column in front of the pilot, will take some time to gather, and caught fire when it hit the board. there is a "pistol-grip" side the spokesman said, because ground, about 50 yards from The aircraft was among a stick linked to five computers nationalities are not included the runway, officials said. fleet of 14 Airbus-320s pur­that modify and relay the pilot's on the tickets. 
The flight originated in chased by Indian Airlines last directions to wing and tail Bombay, 530 miles northwest year at a cost of $38 million earlier Wednesday, the airline flaps. A mechanical cable link "My husband's presence of of Bangalore. The officials said per plane from Airbus said. to the tail allows the pilot to fly mind helped me to get out of 139 passengers and a crew of Industrie, the European con­It was the first crash of an manually in emergencies. the aircraft through the back seven were on the hour-long sortium that manufactures the Airbus-320 in regular commer­Aviation Minister Arif door," said Marook Sadhwa, a flight and at least 55 people plane. cial service. An Airbus-320 car­Mohammed Khan flew to 29-year-old Canadian who was survived the crash. including The jet that crashed entered rying passengers crashed June Bangalore to inspect the crash being treated for burns. "As two Americans. the airline said. the fleet in December and had 26, 1988 at an air show in site and ordered an inquiry into soon as we came out, we ran 
The plane's tail was intact flown from Bombay to the eastern France, killing three the accident, the second-worst for a few yards and there were but its fuselage was shattered nearby city of Goa and back people and injuring 50. The in the history of Indian Airlines. two or three minor explosions." 

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 
Anyone Interested in coordinating the production of the Blue & Gold Pages (Guide to On and Off-Campus Living) for Student Government 
Any Questions, call Matt at 239-6111 

Sr~}l~l~!i
7'Jt:1989-1990 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1990 
Jill, Kendall,and Monique: Are you Here's to a great final Valentine's 
Roni Garza is the hottest babe KEVIN O'MEARA, your art is fabulous, Rembrandt!
ready for singles night? Let's Day with all you SeniorsI Thought
at the University of Notre Dame Happy Valentine's Day! i luv u!
Class 

share it together so we have I'd take a minute out of my ever so 
and possibly the world. ROSES ARE RED FDP
decent memories! busy schedule to say Hi and good
continued from page 7 """-MJG VIOLETS ARE BLUE
•Michael luck on the job searches I 
WISH YOU WERE HERE Remember Minnie, Laurie, and
WITH ME AT X.U. MISTER SEVENZ:Dear KYLE, 
TO THE WOMEN OF 5 NO. any other wandering minds that There are three things 
REGINA: Chicago is ill! New York? Seattle?
that last· LOVE, TRIPLE M HEY PHIL:
HOPE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY ...... Naa! ......Kel.....Faith, Hope and Love CHRISTINA TELESCA IS AS SWEET AS YOU ARE. ... and the greatest of LOVE, YOUR A.A. 
Australopithecus Afarensis: HAPPY V-DAYI "I'm lonely tonight Missing you terribly. Can'tthese is love. 
BOB: I hope you have a great
wait for fun in the sun in San love,
1 corinthians 13:13 I'm missing you now BUBBLE BATH QUEEN. Valentine's day (after). I'm
Diego. Happy Valentine's Day!
I love you with all my heart I'm wanting your love" YOU'LL NEVER KNOW JUST 
looking forward to our 3rd. and soul. honey I Happy Valentine's Day HOW MUCH YOU MEAN TO ME. CAL I love you! Rl your VEE 
·TINA (from very far away) P.S. Also can't wait to see
YOU'RE THE GREATEST. 
the little something. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
TAZ LOVE, YOUR YANKEE Thorn--Thanks for the valentines. 
KRISTIN IllR2: Will you be my Valentine on SWEETHEART They really brightened our day.

ERIC, I HOPE IT'S ONE THAT IS
Thursday? Love, TB THANK YOU FOR TWO YEARS Especially because they were the 
FILLED WITH LOTS OF AND EIGHT MONTHS OF BUSS. I only ones we gotlllllllll SUGAR, LOTS OF MELTING,
•HEY MOL' AA/\AMMAAAAAAAAA/\1\1\A/\AAAAAAAAAA/I.IIAA 
THINK YOU ARE THE GREATEST Love, The girls from 325 Holy AND EVEN A MISTAKE ORHope you see this oneI Dino, my Dino...you're the best big Joe DiMaria, AND AM ANXIOUS FOR OUR Cross TWO!
Happy V-Day #4 brother in the whole world, even if Happy Valentine's DayI 

FUTURE. HAPPY VALENTINE'S LOVE,Love, you hate my hair. ""monica I love you very much. DAY FROM YOUR KU SWEETIEII FE RET--NEXT TIME YOU ARE PETERob Love, Kelley THROUGH WITH THE DOCTOR-­
LOVE YOU. 

ZIP UP YOUR PANTS!IIIII Sined, HAPPY ROCK•Jim DANA 
AAAA/\AA/\II.AI\IIAIIAII.AAII.II.AAII.AII.AAAAIIAII.I\111111.
roberto, spunk king and microbe Your concerned and bewildered LIVESIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIII!II
Happy Valentine's Dayl hunter: do me, do me, make me roomies.

Watch My Lips, Je !'amour. Colleen, 'Moe Happy Valentine's Day,
holler. and, have a happy 
Mll./1. 1\IIAIIA AA/\AII 1111/\A
sweetheart's day. •mo Cathy, To the sweetest Valentine
Sweetheart. Wish you could be ALYCIA TOZAR here.
JFD&J Hey Lori. Happy Valentine's anyone could wish for. .. Happy V­Bubba you! And by the way, I Day! Love. All Day!
Love Always,
Whitesnake from Dillon-­haven't lost my VSA yet, have you? Love John.
To the nicest girl I know John 
AIIII.AAIIAAAAA/1/\AAIIIIAII/\AAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIAA
Somebody loves youlll!!l Show me. 
P.S. You know what they say 
111111111\AAIIAA

Love, KJT & M love ya, LAMB. who else? Jeanne Blasi, Have a Happy Valentine's Day! about those Irish girls. 
AAAA ft.AAII AMA 11111111
will"word, you goose. smooches 111\AIIft.llft.Aft.A/\/I./\A Betcha didn't think I'd actually go JESSICA-I had no idea that liftingYour favorite pest 
and smooches. mo JIM, through with this ad. I know It's not was this rewarding! Happy St. V's FOUR ROSES--WHO AND WHY HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! I the most exciting personal in the Day 'TimmyJS & CP--Cheers to the cutest FOUR!!!!!!!!!!! MISS YOU VERY MUCH AND world, but I hope you like it ascouple who holds their punch 
Queenie cocks and TUTS: you two I HOPE YOU ARE ABLE TO much as those nightly serenades. BRIAN"'
glasses better than their liquor. 

make my liver quiver, my bladder Happy 'Day to a valentine who VISIT ME SOON. Have a happy Valentine's Day. Happy 3rd Valentine's together! I splatter. thanks for letting me be IRONS! Love, Di LOVE, LIZ Love You! 
ft.AIIIIAAIIft.Aft.IIA/1.1\A
your pet freshman, even if I am a 'Cheryl MMAAMMMAKEITH AND scammer. ""Mony HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY KEVINAMMMA I JUST WANTED TO TELL MS, Mom, Dad. Terri, Jason, Elizabeth, AIIAAAIIAIIIIIIAAIIIIAA/\IIAIIII/\A/\IIIIAAAAIIAAIIA/1. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, COLE SM, KM. BS, NT, HH, JD, NR TO
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO MY Megan. and Grandma Thank you for making my 
AAAAAIIAAIIAA & KRISTIN! NOW YOU CAN'T HAVE A HAPPY VALENTINES
FAVORITE A--HOLES. Wasko!! I LOVE YOU ALLI! Sophomore year so great. Happy LOVE YOU GUYS A TON!IIIIIII!III • WUB NU!I WUB NU!! WUB NUll' DAYI AND I CLAIM ANY Luv, Lisa Valentine's day. Oh, don't forget to
SAY THAT NOBODY LOVES YOU! 
xxoo 
-YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 


Coors 
continued from page1 

Orange Bowl. But, they did not need any authorization from Notre Dame. 
We are currently investigating the situation. The first we heard about it was from !The Observer). We will definitely
cheek into it, said Kaesebier. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE OONSTITIITION 
·Ill<' wc,rds we b\'C t:r>· 
COLLEGE LOANS 

Are you in college and in debt? The Army may have an answer. If you received a loan under the National Direct Student Loan, the Guaranteed Student Loan or any, federally insured student loan federally approved by the Department of Education, you may be eligible for loan repayment Qualify and enlist in the Army and your loan can be reduced by 1/3 for each year of active duty served. Ask your local Army Recruiter about Loan Repayment 
Call: 
Army Recruiting Station 125 S: Hill St. South Bend (219) 234-4187 
ARMY 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

YOUR GEEK ROOMMATE SNORTING GUYS! 
feed the kid. FROM MAINE LOVE, RY 
Love, John"A"""""""""""""""/\1\1\11 

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BEING A STUDENT LEADER? 




CLASS ELECTIONS 
-INFORMATIONAL MEETING Thursday, February 15 
7:00 p.m. Foster Room, La Fortune 
-MANDATORY MEETING Monday, February 19 
7:30 p.m. Sorin Room, La Fortune 
CAMPAIGNING RUNS FROM Monday, February 26­Sunday, March 4 
MONDAY,MARCH15ELECTION DAY ! ! 
~~ 

ELECTIONS ARE FOR ALL CLASSES FOR PRESIDENT, VICE-PRESIDENT, SECRETARY, AND TREASURER 


Business 
Thursday, February 15, 1990 page 7 
Analysts: ~nilitary cuts would have little effect on deficit 
WASHINGTON (AP) That would represent a tiny ·CBO, Congress' budget analysis Reducing active U.S. military portion of the $36.5 billion in arm. The agency studies but forces by about one-fourth over savings the administration es­does not endorse the options, 
the next five years would save timates it needs in fiscal 1991. which rarely are enacted into $70 billion, but would produce which begins Oct. 1. Under the law. 
Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduc­Other possibilities studied byonly small savings next year 
and be hard to accomplish, tion law, the target for next CBO include eliminating next congressional analysts said year's shortfall is $64 billion. year's cost-of-living increase In light of the steady reduc­for Social Security and other
Wednesday. 
The Congressional Budget tion in tensions with the Soviet federal benefit programs, Office, in its annual analysis of Union and its allies, the figures which would save $9 billion; 
canceling NASA's planned

ways to cut the federal deficit, provide a sobering perspective on the budget savings that space station, for a $1.3 billionsaid paring American troop could be achieved by dramatic savings in 1991; and increasingstrength by 500,000 by 1995 the federal gasoline tax by 12from 2.1 million would save manpower cuts. 
The idea is one of 160 options cents per gallon, which would
just $510 million next year from the Bush administration's for cutting government spend­raise $12.1 billion. 
most recent plans. ing and raising taxes studied by In its look at possible defense 
Gov't. studies airline deregulation 
WASHINGTON (AP) that is neither regulated nor reregulate airlines would do Transportation Secretary competitive." more harm than good."Samuel Skinner promised Skinner acknowledged The study found that the Wednesday to oppose any ef­"pockets of problems," such as number of airlines increased fort to reregulate airlines, re­increased congestion at major from 30 to 38 between 1978, leasing a study that contends airports and higher fares for when airlines were deregulated, passengers are paying less for passengers traveling to and and 1984, but there are only 29 more service under deregula­from some highly concentrated large carriers, with eight of 
tion. hub airports. them providing 90 percent of However. Sen. John Danforth, Only about 10 percent of total the service. R-Mo.. a critic of decreasing passenger hours flown are in airline competition. said the the higher fare markets, Skin­The report, which analyzed nine-month-long Transporta­ner said at a news conference. data from 1979 to 1988, tion Department study adds to Passengers generally get better brought criticism from a busi­evidence of excessively high service, including non-stop ness travelers group and praise fares at some airports. flights and more frequent from the airline industry. "The report shows that flights, for the higher fares. deregulation is not delivering to "Air travelers have benefited "In terms of day-to-day op­the traveling public fare bene­under deregulation through eration-s and for people who fits if you happen to live near a more service at lower cost," are really biting the bullet and 
non-competitive airport," said Skinner said. "How can you out there flying, I think there 
Danforth spokesman Steve complain when 90 percent of are a lot of problems in this re­
Hilton. people in this country today are port," said Margie Crace, pres­
Hilton said Danforth feels it's flying with discount fares? ident of the National Business 
"intolerable to have an industry "Any effort to regulate or Travel Association. 
savings, CBO studied a scenario in which troop strength would be reduced by 60,000 next year and by increasingly larger numbers until 1995, for a tota cut of 500,000 men and women 
The report said the reduction would save $70 billion over the next five years when compared with the amounts of spending that would be necessary to keep pace with the costs of inflation. 
That total, however, is prob­ably unrealistically high be­cause the diminishing threat from Warsaw Pact nations has put pressure on President Bush and ess to seek reduc­tions in Pentagon spending, rather than increases. 
The study acknowledged that making such steep reductions over just five years "could cause significant disruptions." The authors said retirements and reduced enlistments would probably not produce enough cuts, making layoffs of career soldiers likely. 
By reducing U.S. forces by 250,000 over the same five years, CBO said $60 million would be saved next year, and $38 billion over five years com­pared to increases with infla-
FEEL lrvlPRISONED BY JPW? 
9:30 Thursday­COMEDIAN David Orion Friday & Saturday-The 10-2 DANCE PARTY 
This week at ~tlot..s 
NIGHTClUB 
FEEL ~~~PRISONED BY JPW? 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 

Featuring Friday night seafoocl buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 


NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Sun. 

State Road 23 and Ironwood 
----~ ~ 
~---------~ ~ 




Viewpoint
pageS Thursday, February 15, 1990 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 Gener:al Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager.... . ..... Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor .... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ...... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ... Theresa Kelly Production Manager..........Alison Cocks Accent Editor ......... John Blasi Systems Mgr.....Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor ..... Christine Gill Controller... ....Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther 1nst1tut10n The news is reported as accurately and ob­1ect1vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of the maJority of the following· Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managmg Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opm1ons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 

11 DIDYA f:VERll-1\NKAOOUT AIRJ.lBD; ?.. " 
EDITORIAL 
Election problems have clear solution 
Now that the election for student body president is over, student government can look back and learn from mistakes of the last two weeks. 
Mark Bettencourt's ticket was lined last week for an endorsement by Dialogue magazine that appeared in The Observer. Then there was controversy over Vinny Sanchez's placement of table tents in the dining halls. 
The candidates didn't cause the problems that marred the election; the bylaws on elections did. 
Fortunately, student government is aware of this. Student Body President Matt Breslin said he plans to form a committee to study the bylaws and to remove loopholes. 
Too many bylaws arc open to interpretation. Ambi­guity in the rules causes confusion and sometimes heated debate. 
One area of confusion is the bylaw on endorsements. The student body constitution states that no endorse­ment by a person or organization may appear on any printed or broadcast material that is not paid for by the candidates' campaign fund. 
Dialogue's endorsement appeared in an ad in The Observer. Election Committee Chairman Tom Rask called it a rule violation and lined the ticket for some­thing over which it had no control. None of the tickets paid the printing costs of The Observer, so none should be held responsible for endorsements paid for by someone else. 
The problem with the bylaws is what they don't ad­dress, such as advertising. Is a paid advertisement campaigning? Can students advertise without the candidates' consent? 
What about campaign posters? There is neither a definition of them nor rules on where they can and cannot be placed. If there were, the student senate probably would not have called an emergency meeting. 
Don't repeat the same mistakes. Make the bylaws clear. Candidates should not have to quibble over in­terpretation of the rules. This will make the elections fair and keep the focus where it should be -on the platforms. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

TV pact offers national exposure to deserving schools 
Dear Editor: 
After reading Scott Bruto­cao's article denouncing the Notre Dame-NBC television package (The Observer, Feb. 12), I would have believed that I had Miami's school paper rather than Notre Dame's. I feel compelled to defend this package that every Notre Dame fan should-be excited about. 
The following are the main benefits of this pact which have been brought forth thus far: 1) significantly more money for the scholarship fund; 2) a ma­jority of games appearing on free national television; 3) a uniform starting time for home games. 
A couple of additional bene­fits which have been overlooked are: 1) the additional funds al­low the University to increase the number of women's sports offered at a time when many schools are reducing the num­ber of sports offered; 2) the ND-NBC pact allows more schools to receive national ex­posure. Fine schools such as Stanford. Northwestern, Van­derbilt and Boston College will CFA teams basr.d on dr.mand, I appear on national television believe that NotrH Dame would and collect the reported have stayed with the CFA had $500,000 appearance fee. its national frfle telcwision r,x-These schools would not have posure not been cut to 3 or 4 appeared on national television games a year. without the ND-NBC pact. In Brutocao states, "No cme addition, more CFA teams will would like to envision a futurP appear on ABC where Notre programming snqunnce that Dame would otherwise haVf~ contained 'Aif' rnruns. Notre been shown without the NBC Damn football and stain deal. 'Gilligan's Island' r.pisodns cw-

The only legitimate drawback ery Saturday aftnrnoon." I'm of the ND-NBC pact is the .re-sorry Mr. Brutocao, but I (and duction of proceeds to the CFA the rest of Notre~ Dame fans) from ABC and ESPN following will take that linnup vnrsus Notre Dame's decision not to "Aif", "Little llousn on thP be included in the CFA pact. Prairie" and "Gilligan's Island" However, rather than attacking on NBC and an Iowa-Illinois NotrP Dame for making its own garnP on ABC. pact, the other CFA schools Congratulations to HnvPrPnd should thank Notre DamP for Beauchamp and athletic direr-subsidizing (in effect) their tor. Dick Hosr.nthal. on a grr.at programs since the br.ginning dnal for Notre Damn and its of the CFA television package in fans. As long as Notr<! I>anw 1984 through the 1990 season. continues to run tlw modPI col­While Notre Dame is but 1.6% Jpge program of honesty and of the CFA, ABC lownrnd its bid integrity, it ruwnr has to apolo­by 16.7 % after learning that gizf' for being successful. Notre Dame would not bP in-/1rian /lady eluded in the CFA package. De-Off-Campus spite deserving more than other NIJ Graduate, J9R6 
University wisely capitalizes on football team's success 
Dear Editor: 
The exclusive television con­tract signed with NBC cannot be reduced to motives of sheer greed. College football is a big business with massive growth potential; if Notre Dame had failed to capitalize on this op­portunity, it would have missed a tremendous chance to develop a strong, dedicated following. 
By creating a national net­work similar to that of the Chicago Cubs, Notre Dame can now increase its exposure to both contributing alumni and new followers. This decision to join forces with NBC should not be interpreted as a breach of Notre Dame's commitment to upholding stringent moral val­ues, but rather as a shrewd financial endeavor. 

Due to the skyrocketing costs of operating Our Lady's univer­sity, the Notre Dame adminis­tration could not justify passing up such a lucrative offer. In order to meet the challenges Notre Dame faces as a Catholic university spreading thfl Christian message, we simply could not forego such an ad­vantageous deal. With the de­posit of the substantial monies from the NBC contract into the University's general coffers, our entire community will bene­fit from this astute decision. This positive step taken by Fr. Beauchamp and Dick Rosenthal should be heartily applauded, not condemned. 
The exclusive package with 
NBC by no means underminns the intc~grity and mission of thP University; on tlw contrary, it providPs the opportunity for the Univp,rsity of Notre Dame to freely continue its long­standing dedication to God and country. Quite frankly, Notre Dame cannot turn down such desperately needed monies as it faces the challenge of further­ing the educational mission of Fr. Sorin and his dedicated band of followers in the harsh financial realities of the 1990s. 
It is not simply a question of 
morality,  it  is  a  question  of  
sensibility.  
David Scroppo  

Steven Dyokas C.B. Jones Planner Hall 
Feb. 13, 1990 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 


'Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.' 
George Santayana (1863-1952) 
Accent 
Thursday, February 15, 1990 page 9 


The enigmatic Diana Hoss opened ller own otfices in 1979. Soon her staff nicknamed her, "Miss-Ross-to-You." 

CALL HER 
• 



ISS ass 
Unauthorized biography explores the two sides of Diana Ross 
PAIGE A. SMORON 
assistant accent editor 
he makes a living singing in sequins. She hangs out with Michael Jackson. She shops for shoes with Cher. 

You've got to admire Diana Boss. 
The author of "Call Her Miss Boss," J. Randy Tarraborrelli, has turned his obsession with Ross into a career. His new unauthorized biography ex­plores the enigmatic Diana Boss, who can one minute in-into the background. Even are forbidden to speak to her Ross' affairs with Smokey and are expected to "avert their Bobinson and Gory served to eyes" in her presence. Are-advance her career. She would porter who calls her "Diana" do anything to move up the en-instead of "Miss Ross" will have tertainment ladder. his interview cut short. Ross 
Ultimately, Boss achieved a thinks nothing of buying a first level of success she never be-class airplane seat for an lieved possible. Soon, The evening gown she plans to wear Supremes became Diana Ross that night. and the Supremes, and eventu-The book is thorough. but the ally. Boss went solo. Since then. person behind the glamorous there have been endless image will always be a mystery. albums, concerts, and several Boss, a mother who always has movie appearances, including time for her children. is also a "Mahogany," "Lady Sings the ruthless businesswoman who Blues," and "The Wiz." went through 42 secretaries in 
five years. 
As with any famous person, The author's obsession with 
spire an entire -----=----~~~----............-----Ross began when 
audience to hold Ross thinks nothing he heard her sing 
hands. and the next "Where Did Our minute snap at an Of buying a firSt-ClaSS Love Go" with the employee, "Don't call Supremes when he 
was nine.~~~~:~~s~~ ~~:e airplane seat for Tarraborrelli 
devoted his book begins with the an evening gown 

early days of Motown adolescence to the Records, before the h I t Supremes, 
Supremes hit it big. S e PanS 0 Wear founding their Tarraborrelli de-• \ international fan scribes how the three that night. club. His behavior teenagers used to baffied many of his haunt "Hitsville" -----------------------friendsand 
hoping company president Berry Gory, Jr. would let them do handclaps for the recording stars. During this same time, instead of Diana Ross, the glamorous diva, there was Di­ane Ross from the Brewster Projects, who wasn't above a catfight with one of the Marvellettes. 
The Supremes became painfully aware of the racial tensions of the early 60s when they put in time touring the South in buses and were some­times shot at. Later, the Supremes, despite such horrible experiences, triumphed by becoming one of the first black groups to perform at the Copacabana. 
As they were being groomed for stardom, the ambitious Ross used every opportunity to push the other two Supremes, Mary Wilson and Florence Ballard, however, there's a lot of dirt to uncover. Boss' problems with the former Supremes are noto­rious. During the Motown 25th Anniversary Special, Ross al­most shoved Mary Wilson off the stage for trying to steal the show. Unfortunately, it was edited out of the tape. In 1986, Wilson published "Dreamgirl: My Life as a Supreme," and since that time, Wilson and Ross have not talked. 
Florence Ballard, who was never quiet about being walked on by Ross, was kicked out of the group for her alcoholism. After she left the Supremes, Ballard went on welfare and died in 1976, still estranged from Ross. Ross has been criti­cized for showing up at Bal­lard's funeral and for having the gall to sit in the front row and hold Ballard's children. 
Diana Ross is a woman used to being pampered; employees relatives, who couldn't understand why a nice Italian boy would be buying Ebony and Jet magazines at the corner newsstand. They'd ask his parents, "Rocco and Rose, why is he so interested in those colored girls?" 
None of that deterred Tarraborrelli. He has followed Ross' career since she left the Supremes, gathering informa­tion and interviewing 403 peo­ple who knew her. Unfortu­nately, most of these sources are anonymous, since all of Ross' employees are required to sign an agreement to never talk about her. This makes it rather difficult to verify some of Tarraborrelli's anecdotes, like the story about Michael Jackson asking a Beverly Hills chauffeur to drive around and address him as "Miss Ross." 
Just don't call him Diana. 

Thursday, February 15, 1990 
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.

Classifieds 
NOT1CES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Looking for a corporate sponsor for your fundraiser? Maybe I can help. Jay x 1856 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 289-1743. 
Student Art Forum Meeting tonight·7PM in Snite all welcome 
For a hot lip on where 
to lind a good time Call 647·0900 ext 17 40 St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotline 
LOST/FOUND 
HELP..I lost a sapphire/diamond ring! High Sentimental value···reward Call Debb1e 2935 
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES (GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239­5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL X4098 TO CLAIM. 
Lost at North Dining Hall: Blue 
backpack w/ grey suede bottom 
containing 2 red notebooks. If 
found, PLEASE call Mike x4057. 
Found: Men's ring outside 
South Dining Hall. Call David 
x.3233 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries.AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
ND SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Will pay good money for Football. Basketball pictures call Tom@ 2185 
NEEDED: A ride to Ball State any 
weekend x 1938 
Subway Sandw•ches 
Part time dnver for delivery to ND­
SMC campuses only. 
Good wage. car allowance, tips. 
277-7744 
Ride to U of W. Madison. Friday 
anytime to Sunday. Cal.l Tara 
x4058. 
Summer job interv1ews -Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories. hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000· $8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available ill other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal­oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
20. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
French Graduate Student 
NEEDS living accomodations 
near campus. Call Didier House for 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 bedrooms, WID Close to ND Competitive rent 264-6010 

ROOMMATE NEEDED. Own room in house near campus. Quiet, comfortable. Furnished or un­furnished. Considerate, non­smoker a must. $22Simo. Call 232-9952. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BDRM. HOUSE. 2 BLKS. FROM CAMPUS. 234-1714. 

FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood,dishwasher CALL 232 -8256 
FOR SALE 
ATIENTION FEMALE TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOR SALE: Spring Break plane ticket to Ft. Lauderdale. Best Offer call Molly at 234-5410 
NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call ND Dept. of Comm. & Theatre 239-7054 
nCKETS 

NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 

Help! I need 2 student tickets and oneGA for the Georgia Tech game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO ND­
MIZZOU GAME ON MARCH 3. CALL COLLECT 314-449-7618 
EVENINGS. 
$NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim x1646 
HEY NOW!! I NEED DEAD TIX FOR LANDOVER,MD SHOWS (SPRING BREAK) MARY 2593808 
OH BOY DO I NEED MISSOURI BASKETBALL TICKETS! CALL X3601. 
••••••••• •••••••••••••••Desparatel y need two Missouri B-ball tickets. Call Kristen at #2670 
4 Billy Joel Tix for sale. Men Feb 
19. Market Square Arena, Indy. $30 each. Call x2615 SOON!!! 
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x 233-6582 
HELP! I need 2 GA's for GEORGIA TECH. Kevin x1638 
PERSONALS 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 JERRY LONG hi there -Coak 
Need Ride to or near Pitt 2/15-16 or any wknd $$ JoAnne 1270 
DON'T WALK TO SENIOR BAR OR THE PARKING LOTS ALONE!!! 
CALL SAFEWALK!!! 283-BLUE 

Max, 
Happy 21st Birthday! I hope you're 
enjoying London! Miss you! 
Love, 
(Your little sis) 

Ann 
Windy City Windy City Windy City Cost--$10.00 Your ticket to Chicago LaFortune Information Desk 
Want to work for Student Activities next year? Get a JOB APPLICATION at the Information Desk. Jobs open in GAMES ROOM, INFORMATION DESK, BUILDING MANAGER, SOUND TECHNICIAN, OFFICE ASSISTANTS, and STEPAN MANAGERS. 
TOP TEN REASONS WHY WE SHOULD PLAY BASKETBALL LIKE LOYOLA-MARYMOUNT: 
10) The band wouldn't have time to play the "hey" cheer. 
9) We wouldn't have to pretend to play defense anymore. 
8) Coaching would become a non-factor. 
7) Joey wouldn't have to pass. 
6) We'd score more than a SMC'er on a Sat. nite. 
5) No Keith Tower. 
4) LMU remembers it's Denver. 
3) FISH!!! 
2) Losing by 20 is more fun when your score is 125. 
1) Univ. of Akron needs a basketball coach, too. 
TOP FIVE REASONS WE LOVE A GIRL NAMED NIRMALA 
5. SHE'S NOT AFRAID TO DISPLAY PUBLIC AFFECTION 
4. SHE'S THE ONLY PERSON WHO DRINKS AS MUCH AS WE DO 
3. SHE'S OUR ONLY PRE-MED FRIEND 
2. SHE'S ALWAYS WILLING TO SHOW A RA A GOOD TIME 
1. CAUSE IT'S HER BIRTHDAY HAPPY 18TH! LOVE, LAURIE & MAGGIE 
hiag 
CLUB 23 Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 

• Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening 
specials. 234·3541 'MO' 
Don't forget 
Friday Lunch Noon-2 at Alumni Sr. Club 
Don't forget 
St. Jude, please hear my prayer. 
Check out the New Price on 
Club Cup Nite ............................ .. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) ROME(JUNE17-JUL Y16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT., FR., SWITZ., GER., ENG., & ITALY. COURSES IN ART, BIO., BUEC, HIST., IT., SOC. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS STUDENTS, TEACHERS,& PIZZA. FOR MORE HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHIL Believe it or not, you have survived to face yet another major holiday with me!!! Thanks for your patience and support, have a happy v-day honey, 
Love, 
Molly 
ADOPTION 
Physician and wife, happily 
married for ten years, would dearly 
love to adopt a baby. We have a 
comfortable home to share and 
most importantly lots of love. 
patience and understanding. We 
live on 20 rolling acres with a large 
lawn, pond and woods. We will 
provide your child with the best educational opportunities. We will pay medical and legal expenses. Please call collect for a recorded message. (219) 625-4205. 
SOPHOMORES !!! 
Are you ready for Advanced 
Registration on March 30th ? 
Have you selected your major? 
If you answered no. consider 
registering for the CAREER/ 
MAJOR DECISION MAKING 
WORKSHOP starting the week of February 19th at the 
University Counseling Center. 
Call 239-7336 to register or 
for more information. 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
READ EXODUS 22:18 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
fll\l\l\l\l\fll\l\l\fll\/\111\f\ll.l\l\l\fll\fii\I\I\AIIf\l\ll.llf\lll\l\ 
SUNSHINE AND MARY 
MAHONEY 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO THE FIGHTIN' F-GS OF 814 
l\flll.l\lll\l\l\l\f\III\I\IIIIAI\11Af\f\ll.l\l\lll\l\lll\f\f\lllllll\ll 
1\f\1\M\flf\1\llf\ 
P.S GO 'NISES, ROLL ON P.E. INTERHALL BASKETBALLI 
So you think Janet Jackson and 
Madonna sound like amateurs? 
We'll pay you $450 to do better. 
SPRING BREAK 
DAYTONA 
$139 rm only $229 w. trans. high quality accommadations 
call Todd 1-800-265-1799 
Need a ride to Columbus this 
weekend, 2/16-2/18 
call Mike at X1114 
WVFI wants to know: How much do you like sweets? 
SUGARCUBES, perhaps? 
How about an evening in 
Chicago 
with the Sugarcubes??? 
Watch for details soon. 
WVFIAM640 
Rejoice and be glad all ye people for the day and the hour are at hand and love shall triumph. Years we have toiled to bring love into your midsts. Many setbacks we have suffered, but the powers of love have triumphed. No children shall weep and no person shall be deprived of love. Love Fest 1990!!!!! When Love came back to town! 
Dear B L: 
In answer to your questions: 
grad student, off-campus, nice 
lool<ing, no 
phone, sorry. How about 
writing back with time and 
place to meet? Thanks. 
. M. 
STUDENT ART FORUM 
MEETING 7PM TONIGHT THURS. FEB.15 
IN THE SNITE 
.......................... 
---~--------------------------------­
Kathy Bukolt, Happy belated Valentine's Day to the sex bombs of rm.228 H.C. and our would-be roommates (dopey transfers!) Love Christine, your 6'2" friend. 

RIDE NEEDED: Cols. OH leave 2116 return 2118 Please call Laura 284-4322 $$ 
CHARITY BALL MEETING 
Tonight ?p.m. Sorin Room LaFortune. All those intersted in joining 1990 committee are welcome. 
Valentines 
We love you, Mike Kolnik' 
xoxox 
The Gang (Left, right. and on top) 
JON SAMPSON HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 1990 
Happy Valentines Day Uncles Joe. Jake, Dave& Chris Your best niece, Jill 
SWOOP,SHAG,CALLIE,LONGWA Y AND PETEY-­Happy Valentine's Day.'"""" 
--your secret admirer 
ROB VIEYRA. AT AN OSWEGO SUNSET ON VALENTINE'S DAY, I'M THINKING OF YOU. LOVE, MICHELLE 
Dear Carra, 
Hey Gorgeous I I finally got a personal in for you' I love you very much! This is also a belated happy 9-months. It's been incredible and will only get better. 
I love you, Scruffy Man 
I\IV\1111.1\I\AI\III\flfl.lll\111\l\l\l\lll\f\lllll\l\f\llf\lll\lll\l\l\ 
l\l\l\llf\l\ll.lll\l\llll.l\l\f\f\l\l\l\l\l\f\f\ll.l\l\l\lllll\l\l\f\l\l\11 
11/1/\II/I./I/IAIIIII\AA/111/\II.II./I/I/1/\11.11 
Oh, by lhe way­Don't you know thai I can make a dream that's barely half awake come true? I wanted to say-But anything I could've said I felt somehow that you already knew 
Alllll\f\lll\f\lll\l\f\f\f\l\f\l\l\f\l\l\l\f\f\llllf\l\1\1111.1\1\1\1\ll 
. IIAAIIAIIII.AII/11\IIA/Iflfi.AII/1.1\1\IIIIAAAA/111./\IIAAAAA 
lll\lll'll\111\llf\l\l\l\lll\f\f\l\l\lll\l\l\f\ 
Happy Valentine's Day to the one and only 
l\l\llf\llf\l\f\f\f\l\l\l\l\llf\ll.l\llf\/I.AIII\AI\I\I\I\I\III\1\IIIII\ 
11/111.11.11/t./\fl.fl.llll 
T.Bass 
l\lll\l\lllll\l\fll\f\f\1\f\l\lllll\lllllll\l\lllllll\lllll\l\l\l\f\1\f\ 
AII/1/I.IIAII/1/\11.11 
Love and plenty of smooches, Jeff 
Happy Valentine's Day to the B.A., in London. Warmest wishes from Jeff. 
LAURA GRITZ: Hey baby' (Strange hand motion). Thank you for the pieces of the Wall!! Hope you didn't wreak too much havoc on Russia! Where d1d you hide your rubles!!?? WE MISS YOU! Wuv (true wuv) from: Pita, Heels, & Lisa G. 
P.S. Happy Valentines Day"" 
To the women of 5N REGINA: May your Valentine's Day be as sweet as you are. 
Love, your RA 
MELISSA MANCIAS 
Happy VD from your crazy valentine. I know that this isn't very proper, but then neither am I. We, 
however, are great together. Opposites do attract. Love, 
Marcus 
Lisa Michelle, Happy Valentine's Day! The past four months have been the best. ' I LOVE YOU! A Love Always, Mitch 
KJT­

Marilyn-"You are the greatest person that I have ever met!" Ever since Dec. 31, 1988, I haven't been able to stop thinking about you.'"l want to be BEST FRIENDS FOREVER'"" Happy Valentines Day! 'James' 
Kathy Ann, Have a wonderful Valentine's Day!! 
Love always, 
Jeff 
For all the special times. For what has been and whal will be. I send in this long distance Valentine. All my love to you Anne-Mane. 
TOP TEN THINGS WE LOVE ABOUT THE FISHER GUYS: 1 O.Eric Lutz's ability to enter-tain without knowing it-his trend-setting hair, too! 
9. Doug and Eric's "late night olympic" ice-throwing and Doug's dancing ability just can't be beat-"lt was f___ -ing awesome!" 
8. Ken's knack for knowing when the "time is right tor a silly song." 
7. Anthony Valle's love for his teddy bear, his beer mug, and h1s Doors double album. 
6. Dave Heit: soulmate·"Susan lives on a golf course." 
5. Rob Henning's many loves: Sol Goldman. Barry Manilow. feet. "Grace", Ron Jeremy. the mermaid. and penwinkle blue. 4.Rob Naber's quote:"You know these guys come [over) and they are still hard [to relate to) ...Ohl Hi Dianne'" P.S.·Turn around. Rob' 
3. Steve(I.S.W.) Reed: shares the couch.sharesthe~unes. but shows no mercy when the ch .28 weather babe is on I! 
2. Pat Midden's RED sleepwear, ability to make the most of the least he can get. and h1s "42" ways of serving things cold. We' you. Patsterl 
1. The lovely floral arrange· ments in the 72-1 mean 24 hr. lounge. Love the decor, Br. Ed1 
WE 'YOU GUYS'·-Eyore&Molly 
To S.O.L., my favorite BEANCOUNTING MaJor. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY'. and 1f you're ready to take me up on my offer, how about dinner, Friday, at the Fondue Parlor. Sound good? 
Kermrt 
P.S. Not bad tor a MARKETING maJor, huh? 
,-----~-------------------, 
SUMMER JOBS :;QlJNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rrn!BdiLaundry, Travel Nlowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the lollowing activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, ChetJrleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, 3uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scu~ Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck. N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 
02332 (617) 934-6536. 
Tired of being your own worst critic? If so, join our group focusing on modifying counter-productive self criticism. 
The 1st of six meetings will begin on February 20th, and continue through April 3rd. We will meet from 7:00-9:00 p.m in room 316 at the University Counseling Center. 
For more information, please contact BRYAN or ANTbiNELL at 239-7336. 
Be sure to come out and w1sh J1m Shilder a Happy 22nd at 1 p.m. in the D1 Parking Lot at the James P Shilder Memorial Fence. This fine landmark is dedicated to Jim by our very own Security Dept. 
Beatrice, Will you save me from the pit of dispair? Judas just isn't good company. 
days 239-7596 Parrot Heads Forever !I! INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK I don't know how many Somehow you've made it to PRISCILLAAT 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 
Valentines you received but another Valentine's Day with me, PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN remember you are mine! so I'm starting to think that we HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, MJG, Dafoe might have something going here! 
I COULD NEVER LOVE YOU 
FOR RENT 

LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. LIFE IS TOO SHORT FOR ME Have a great day and thanks for MOREEXPERIENCED PARENTS OF NOT TO TELL YOU HOW I FEEL, I ROSES ARE RED everything you do for me. I LOVE PETE
4 Bdrm home for rent ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, LOVE YOU -I ALWAYS HAVE AND VIOLETS ARE BLUE YOU!!I!! -JFD 1122 Blyler Place PRIVAtE ADOPTION. CALL ALWAYS WILL. TIM YOU KICK ASS (616)695-3786 COLLECT 513-891-1583. MMM BUT YOU KNOW I KICK MORE see Class/ page 6 
~------­
Thursday, February 15, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Irish to be in 'College Classic' 
SEATTLE (AP) -Notre Dame has decided to play in the first annual College Baseball Classic at the Kingdome on March 17 and 18, organizers said. 
Joining Notre Dame will be the Air Force Academy, Duke and Washington. 
Pat Murphy, coach of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, set up the tournament after con­tacting Kingdome officials last summer while he was recruiting in Seattle. Washington and Notre Dame say they will be the hosts for the tournament each year. 
"We think this will become the biggest college baseball tournament outside the College World Series," said John Rudolf, a Notre Dame graduate who heads a non-profit founda­tion supporting the tourna­ment. 
Four games will be played on 
the first day and a triple­
header will conclude the tour­
nament on St. Patrick's Day.
:·····
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
Baseball negotiations still at a stalemate 

NEW YORK (AP) -The players union dismissed Commissioner Fay Vincent's proposal at the stalled base­ball talks as a step back­ward Wednesday, ruining hopes of a breakthrough on the eve of a spring training lockout by owners. 
"It's not progress," said Phil Bradley, one of the play­ers attending a strategy session at the union office. 
Thus, camps will not open as scheduled Thursday, when pitchers, catchers and in­jured players were to start reporting in Florida and Arizona. Negotiations re­sume Thursday morning in New York, but the two sides say they aren't close to a new collective bargaining agreement. 
Union chief Donald Fehr spoke negatively of Vincent's proposal, which had raised hopes the day before. Fehr, who did not reject the plan outright, said it had three components: 
-A system of minimum salaries for players with less than three years in the rna­jars and a 75 percent cap on increases in salary arbitra­tion. 
-A two-year study com­mittee on revenue sharing and a provision that the four-year labor agreement could be reopened by man­agement after two years. 
-No increase in the bene­fit plan covering health care costs and player pensions. 
Vincent presented his plan during meetings Monday and Tuesday as a replacement for the owners' revenue sharing and pay-for-perfor­mance proposals. 
"It's a change of ap­proach, but not something we would seriously con­sider," Paul Molitor of Milwaukee said. 
Fehr, using the phrase of union lawyer Gene Orza, said Vincent's proposal was progress only because "we're now talking in the same ocean." 
Under Vincent's plan, play­ers with less than one year in the majors would have a $75,000 minimum salary, players with less than two years a $125,000 minimum, and players with less than three years a $200,000 min­imum. 
Fehr said he believed the minimums would become club-imposed standards. If that were true, three-plus players would have a $350,000 limit, four-plus players a $612,500 limit and five-plus players a top of $1,071,875. 
"We have fought the battle on salary caps before," said Fehr, who called the new proposal a request for give­backs. 
In 1980 and 1985, owners proposed 100 percent caps on raises for players in salary arbitration and each time withdrew the proposal after stiff opposition from the players. 
Last year, the average in­crease for players who filed for arbitration was 70 per­cent. Some players receive increases way above the av­erage. San Diego catcher Benito Santiago got a 262 percent increase Wednesday and California pitcher Bob McClure last month settled his case with a 313 percent increase. 
Vincent said that he pre­ferred not to talk about his plan other than at the nego­
:  Smith Corona presents three products that can  you can have the convenience of word processing  :  
:  help make schoolwork academic.  features with the simplicity of a typewriter.  :  
:  The Smith Corona PWP 2000 Personal Word  Of course, the pocket-size Spell~Right'" 300P  :  
:  Processor is in a class by itself. It's so compact it can  also comes with impeccable references. In this  :  
:  fit in the most compact dorm room.Yet, thanks to  case, a built-in electronic dictionary, a thesaurus,  :  
:  features like a built-in disk drive, 100,000 character  a calculator; even a collection of challenging  :  
:  DataDisk capacity, and a crystal clear display, it  word games.  :  
:  makes it easy to transform B's into Ns.  ·  So if you're thinking Magna Cum Laude at  :  
: : :• ;  For those who preter an electronic typewriter; the Smith Corona XD 4600 is the typewriter of preference.With its 16 character displafe and ap­proximately ~000 characters of editab e memory,  the end of this year; don't forget to think itJIIIIII SMITI-1 . Smith Corona at the CORON~TOMORROIN'S TECHNOLOGYbeginning of this year. ATYOURTOUCH'"  : : : • ;  
•  For more information on these products, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840  :  
:  or Smith Corona Canada, 440 Tapscott Road, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada MIB IY4.  .•  

~································································································ 
·····-r 
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
tiations. 
"It seems to me I am bet­ter off talking at the table," he said Wednesday. 
Orza attacked the proposal as "regressive." Orza said he interpreted it as manage­ment saying, "We're making more so we will give you less." 
Management negotiator Chuck O'Connor, speaking later at baseball's executive offices, declined to get into the specifics of the proposal. But he said the option to terminate after two years was meant to protect teams from an econom1c downturn in baseball. 
"(It) is an attempt to insu­late the clubs from problems they will come to pass before four years," O'Connor said. "In other words, to give them an out." 
O'Connor, who had a con­ference call Wednesday with the six owners on the Player Relations Committee, said that while the revenue-shar­ing proposal was being put aside for now, owners still saw it as the future of base­ball's labor-management relations. 

Detroit 
continued from page 16 
Shelley Roby le d Butler (15­6, 9-2 in the MCC) with 18 points. Although the game was close at times, McGraw said the Bulldogs did little that sur­prised the Irish. 
Notre Dame, now 16-6 overall and still undefeated in Midwest Collegiate Conference play, faces another challenge tonight when they host Detroit at 7:30. The Lady Titans are just 6-14, but McGraw feels the team could give the Irish some problems. 
"They've got two great play­
ers that give them one of the 
best inside-outside combos in 
the league," said McGraw. 
Leading Detroit with 17.2 ppg 
and 11.4 rpg is Cheryl Day, the 
only MCC player to achieve 
double figures in both cate­
gories. Her stats off the boards 
rank 20th nationally. McGraw 
is worried about how Notre 
Dame will stop the Lady Titans' 
inside game. 
"Cheryl is the best post player 
in the conference," said 
McGraw, "and we have had lots 
of problems defending inside." 
Freshman guard Patrice 
Martin will add to Irish wor­
ries. The 5-9 guard (10.6 ppg, 
3.2 rpg) excels at shooting three-pointers. Her .492 aver­age is fourth in the country. 
Although this is the first meeting between the schools this year, Notre Dame has won three straight and holds a 9-2 series advantage. While Robinson missed practice Wednesday to care for her in­jury, the junior predicts she will play tonight. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 


page 12 The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1990 
Lemieux's streak halted but Penguins stop Rangers 4-3 
NEW YORK (AP) -Mario Lemieux's near-record scoring streak came to an end at 46 games Wednesday night when the pain-hobbled center was shut out in Che Pittsburgh Penguins' 4-3 overtime victory over the New York Rangers. 
Lemieux. obviously sub-par because of a nagging back problem, saw limited ice time. After playing sparingly in the first two periods, the All-Star center failed to come out for the third period. 
Lemieux was in the training room after the second period and a team spokesman said Lemieux was "too sore" to con­tinue. 
Lemieux's point-scoring streak was the second longest in NHL history -behind only the 51 by Wayne Gretzky when he played for the Edmonton Oilers in 1983-84. 
The last time Lemieux didn't score a point was in a 5-1 loss to thf" Montreal Canadiens on Oct. 28 at the Montreal Forum. On his 46-game streak, Lemieux compiled 39 goals and 64 assists for 103 points. He leads the NJIL with 121 points. 
Gretzky, incidentally, has three of the four longest point streaks in NHL history-51 in 1983-84, 39 in 1985-86 and 30 in 1982-83. all with the Edmonton Oilers. 
Lemieux, who has a herniated disk that will probably need surgery at the end of the sea­son, was totally ineffective in a scoreless first period when he wasn't able to get a shot off. The teams themselves were able to manage only 11 shots be­tween them in the first 20 min­utes. 
In the second period, Lemieux saw limited action. He appeared for one shift early in the period that lasted 54 seconds and then for two Pittsburgh power plays. 
Lemieux showed little agility that has characterized his ca­reer as one of the NHL's premier players, limiting his play for the most part to the Ranger end of the rink. 
As for penalty-killing, Lemieux played in the first pe­
riod  but  that  was  it  for  the  
game.  
Paul  Coffey  had  two  goals  

and and two assists and John Cullen added four assists for the Penguins. 
Pittsburgh won it with 1:27 left in the overtime when Coffey took the puck at center ice. He flipped a cross-iee pass to Troy Loney, who came across the goalmouth and beat goaltender Mike Hichter with a backhand shot. It was Loney's eighth goal of the season. 
After the scoreless first pe­riod, each team scored twice in the second. 
New York's Troy Mallette scored from in front at 8:11 when Bernie Nicholls put the puck on his stick. 
Mark Recchi tied it 1-1 for Pittsburgh with a power-play goal at 9:19. 
It was on Recchi's goal that Lemieux came closest to scor­ing a point. He was standing at the sideboards when he passed to Coffey at the blue line. Coffey shot and Richter made the save. 
Cullen knocked the rebound off the goal post and it bounced out to Recchi, who punched it into an open net. 
Kelly Kisio put the Rangers the third period Wednesday up 2-1 with a breakaway goal night to give the Detroit Hed at 13:09, one second after a Wings a come-from-behind 6-5 Pittsburgh power play expired. victory over the Los Angeles 
The Penguins tied it at 15:44 Kings. on a goal by Coffey, who drilled Yzerman's goal capped a a slap shot from the left circle three-goal third period as the past Richter. Red Wings scored the game's 
Kisio then put the Rangers final four goals to overcome a ahead with a shorthanded goal 5-2 deficit. The Kings dropped from the top of the right circle their fourth straight game. at 9:32. Coffey matched that for Pittsburgh when he scored After Shawn Burr and Gerard from in front at 13:57. Gallant pulled the Hed Wings 
Red Wings 6, Kings 5 even with third-period goals, 
DETROIT -Steve Yzerman Daniel Shank intercepted a scored his third goal of the clearing pass in the Los Angeles game with 37 seconds left in zone. 

76ers rip lowly Nets 122-112 while Bucks, Celtics triumph 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Charles Barkley scored 16 of his 30 points in Philadelphia's big third quarter and the 76ers handed the New Jersey Nets their 11th straight defeat, 122­1 I 2 Wednesday night. 
The 76ers outscored the Nets 49-27 in the third quarter, the highest scoring period of the season for Philadelphia. 
The victory was the 76ers' 13th in their last 15 games, while the Nets suffered their 14th consecutive loss on the road. 
The 76ers, leading 62-53 with 
11:45 left in the third period, went on a 22-9 run to take a 84-61 advantage on a free throw by Barkley. Philadelphia built its biggest lead, 103-70, on a layup by Mike Gminski with 41 seconds left in the quarter. 
The 76ers led 118-94 with 
4:52 remaining in the game be­fore New Jersey went on a 14-2 run. 
Gminski added 16 points and Hersey Hawkins 15 for Philadelphia, while Dennis Hopson had 21 to lead New Jersey. 
Bucks 127, Nuggets 117 
MILWAUKEE Greg Anderson scored 12 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter Wednesday night, spurring the Milwaukee Bucks to a 127-117 victory. 
The Nuggets were within three early in the final period and then cut the Bucks' lead to 108-104 with 4:47 to go on Tim Kempton's three-point play. But Anderson scored nine of the Bucks' next 11 points and Alvin Robertson hit a layup off a missed free throw as Milwaukee went up 119-108 with 2:56 to go and stayed in control the rest of the way. 
The Bucks led 68-61 at the half, even blew an 11-point lead in the second quarter before recovering. 
Celtics 106, Spurs 95 
SAN ANTONIO -Kevin McHale scored 28 points as the Boston Celtics handed San Antonio its third consecutive defeat, the Spurs' longest losing streak of the season, 106-95 Wednesday night. 
Boston, which trailed by as many as 17 points in the first quarter, scored the final two points of the opening period and the first 17 of the second to take a 39-35 lead. Michael Smith's seven points fueled the rally. 
Reggie Lewis added 24 points and Larry Bird 20 for the Celtics. 
San Antonio got 32 points from David Robinson and 20 from Terry Cummings. 
The Celtics built the lead to 56-45 at the half. out-scoring San Antonio 34-10 in the 




Canadiens 10, Canucks 1 
MONTHEAL -Stephane Hicher set a dub record with two goals and three assists in a six-goal first period as the Montreal Canadiens routed the Vancouver Canucks 10-1 Wednesday night. 
Hicher, who added assists on goals by Brian Skrudland in the second and third periods, broke the previous club mark of four points in a period held by sev­eral Montreal players. 
The last time it was accom­plished was April 2, 1977. 
ond period. The Spurs were 3 of 18 from the field in the quar­ter. 
The bulge grew to as many as 17 points in the third quarter before the Spurs rallied. Using a 17-6 run at the end of the third period. San Antonio trimmed the deficit to 85-79. 
A Robinson field goal and free throw with 10:06 to play brought the Spurs within four. But Lewis scored six of the next seven points for Boston to push the lead back to double figures and San Antonio could get no closer than five the rest of the game. 
Suns 114, Jazz 103 PHOENIX -Seven of Kevin Johnson's 34 points came in a decisive 17-6 run late in the second period and the Phoenix Suns went on to win their 12th consecutive home game, 114­103 over the Utah Jazz Wednesday night. 
Tom Chambers added 22 points and Jeff Hornacek 19 for the Suns, who have won 16 of their last 19 games. 
The Midwest Division-leading Jazz lost for the eighth straight time in Phoenix since March 1986 and 32nd in 36 trips in the all-time series despite Thurl Bailey's 22 points and John Stockton's 20. 
Johnson finished with 14 as­sists and made 12 of his 21 field goals. 
-

TOWNHOUSES 


For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 


232-8256 

--------------------------------~-------------~-------------------------------------­
Thursday, February .15, 1990 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BR:IEFS 
Ski Club will meet to discuss the Winter Park spring break trip at 8 p.m. Thursday in 118 Nieuwland Science. Final payments, room selections and insurance forms will be taken at the meeting. Call x3662 or x2962 for more information. 
Cycling Club is forming a race team to compete in the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Association. Men. women and graduate students are welcome. No experience is necessary. Call 288-4409 or x3472 for more information. 
Racquetball Club is still accepting players for second semester. Call x 2334 or x 227 4 until Saturday if interested. 
Catcher Benito Santiago joined the millionaire club Wednesday when he won his arbitration case against the San Diego Padres. He was awarded $1.25 million in the case. 
Joe Montana, quarterback of the Super Bowl Champion San Francisco 49ers, heads the Professional Football Writers of America All-Pro team. He is joined by rookie Barry Sanders of Detroit and Christian Okoye of Kansas Cit . 
SMC basketball drops to 9-9, loses to Rosary 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Basketball team dropped its record to 9-9 Monday after Rosary College upset the Belles 78-68. 
The Belles came out strong in the first few minutes of the half, but Hosary quickly jumped ahead. By mid-way through the half. Hosary led by 18 points and by halftime the Belles trailed 45-32. 
"Wn got off to a decent start and tlwn we died. It looked like it was going to be a long night." said Belles coach Marvin Wood. 
In the second half. the Belles playPd tough. Their full-court press crPatPd problems for Rosary, slowing them down of­fensively. The Belles continued to cut their deficit. 
With just 6:57 left to play, the Belles trailed by just one point. 62-61. but it wasn't enough as late second half fouls plague the Belles drive. Rosary went on to take the victory. 
"Rosary is an excellent team and our girls played an excel­lent game against them," said Wood. 
Sophomore forward Catherine Restovich led the Belles effort with 18 points. Junior guard Mea Tettenborn scored 12 points on two three­point goals. Senior guard Dawn Brohman added 11 points, whiln Theresa Clemens, a sophomore guard. tallied 10. 

-~~~~~~~~ 


______.Mih ~ 
~ ~

I KILLILEA I 
~ February Service Specials ~ 
~~: Killilea Has Done It Again ~ --/ Front or Rear GM Brakes at ~ 
/ ~ 
/ 1985 Prices ~ 
I 
~ $79.95 each ~ ~ (86-89 Toronado models $10 extra) ~ ~ Includes: Factory Disc Pads or Shoes ~ 
Turn Rotors or Drums and Pack Wheel ~ : Bearings, if required {rear return ; ~ springs extra) ~ 

Warriors 
continued from page 16 
"I think that made me a little more determined," Fredrick said of his fourth foul. "It was an immature foul. Coach talked to me and said it was stupid, but don't let it get to me." 
Marquette built a five-point lead, its biggest of the game, at 56-51 when Trevor Powell hit a deep jumper from the left side and converted the free throw as yet another foul was called on the Irish. 
"I don't want to go to the NIT," Fredrick said, "so when you're down by five to Marquette, it's a quick gut­check." 
Kevin Ellery and Elmer Bennett got the Irish to within one, and Fredrick came back into the game with 8:24 to go. He and Bennett kept up the Irish scoring pace, and the Warriors missed a few key field goal attempts to put the Irish lead at 74-69 with a minute to 
go. 
The Warriors kept trying, and got two three-point bas­kets in the final minute, but LaPhonso Ellis converted a three-point play with 16 sec­onds left to put the game out of reach. 
"We'll take the win against Marquette," Phelps said. "We knew it would be a dogfight." 
Despite 21 total Irish fouls, no fouled out for Notre 

Bennett 
continued from page 16 
less playing time. 
"Elmer's going to put points on the board," said backcourt mate and co-captain Joe Fredrick. "That's nothing against Tim. Everyone loves playing with Tim. and he's a great point guard, but in the past few games we've just needed a little more scoring." 
Bennett says that it does not affect him whether he starts or sits for the first few minutes of a game. It doesn't appear to be that big a concern for him. 
"Once you're on the court, all else leaves the mind. and you just go out and play basket­ball." he said. 
In fact, he got off to a slow start Wednesday night, making just one of his first five shots. 
It was in the last 10 minutes of the game, when the Irish were trailing in a contest cru-Dame. Robinson and Fredrick 
played most of the second half 
with four fouls apiece. 

"I was excited about the way 
we protected Robinson and 
Fred," Phelps said. "The zone 
did a good job in keeping them 
in the game." 

"The Irish made the big plays 
down the stretch," O'Neill said. 
"They are really playing, and I 
think they'll finish strong. I 
thought that we played well, 
and we certainly had our 
chances. We got some good 
shots, some open shots, but 
they just didn't go down. I 
guess that's going to happen 
sometimes." 

Marquette has been suffering 
through a stretch of tough 
losses, losing two to MCC foes 
Dayton and Xavier and an over­
time contest to Virginia at 
home, but the program is im­
proving to the point where 
"Marquette will never be an au­
tomatic win for anyone," ac­
cording to O'Neill. The 
Warriors beat Notre Dame 80­
68 in Milwaukee in December. 
when the Irish were without the 
services of leading scorer and 
rebounder Ellis. 

"Ellis makes them a better 
team," O'Neill said. "It's never 
gratifying to come close, but we 
feel like we can compete with 
anyone we play." 

"It's good to get home and 
get a win," Phelps said. "We are 
aggressive here. On the road, 
things go the other way for us. · We get down by five at home 
Elmer Bennett 

cia! to their hopes of an NCAA bid, that Bennett took charge of the team. 
As the Irish trailed 60-57 with 8:24 to play, Bennett took charge of the Irish offense, whether he was penetrating, pulling up for short jumpers or dishing the ball to whomever was open. Bennett's direction helped Notre Dame take the lead even when Marquette con­tinued to have success on of­fense. 
"We never really panicked, but we knew we had to get things on the ball," said 
ii1.!.l~y J.!Jll!lll1 noon-2 i lJ.!.l:U y JJJJ)lll1 Cliff 
Erickson 
::J~J.u1 i.l~ y JJJ~ld~ LIVE 
"Crazy Jamaican" Reggae Music 


and we come back. On the road, that doesn't happen." 
Fredrick's 22 paced the Irish in the scoring column, followed by Bennett with 16 and Ellis with 12. Ellis and Robinson pulled down 12 and 11 re­bounds, respectively. Powell led all scorers with 29 points, fol­lowed by Smith for the Warriors with 21 points and a team-high eight rebounds. 
NOTRE DAME (79) 
Ellis 4-10 4-7 12, Williams 0­2 0-0 0, Robinson 4-6 2-2 10, Fredrick 7-13 5-6 22, Bennett 5-12 6-7 16, Tower 1-3 2-4 4 Singleton 0-1 1-4 1, Sweet 5-6 0-0 10, lPery 1-1 2-2 4, Jackson 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 27-56 22-32 79. MARQUETTE (76) 
Powell 12-20 5-8 29, Baldwin 1-5 2-2 4, Grosse 0-0 0-0 0, Anglavar 4-8 0-0 11, Smith 7­24 5-6 21, Hayes 1-1 0-0 2, Luter 3-5 0-0 7, Leurck 0-0 2-2 2. Totals 28-63 14-18 76. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 35, Marquette 33. 3-point goals­Marquette 6-15 (Anglavar 3-6, Smith 2-8, Luter 1-1), Notre Dame 3-8 (Ellis 0-1, Williams 0-1, Fredrick 3-4, Jackson 0-2). Fouled out-Grosse, Anglavar, Leurck. Rebounds-Marquette 37 (Smith 8), Notre Dame 38 (Ellis 12). Assists-Marquette 10 (Smith 5), Notre Dame 20 (Bennett 6). Total fouls­Marquette 29, Notre Dame 21. A-10.387. 
Bennett. "It seemed every time we would score, Marquette would come back and score on the other end." . 
Bennett's skills in directing the offense show a marked im­provement from his freshman year, when he still was trying to adjust to the point guard posi­tion. A former Texas Mr. Basketball. Bennett was a shooting guard who scored more than 30 points per game at Houston Bellaire High School. 
"Last year it was a little rough learning how to run the offense," Bennett said. "This year. I'm making the adjust­ments. I'm concentrating more. I'm not making the stupid turnovers, but just making the right passes." 
Nonetheless, the Irish need a point guard who can score and take some of the pressure off LaPhonso Ellis inside. Despite shooting just 5-of-12 from the field Wednesday, Bennett was able to accomplish that. 
"We're trying to convert him to point guard because he scores, especially against zones," Phelps said. "He strug­gled the first half, going 1-of-5, but you just stick with him." 
"Penetration and creativity is 
-.

all a part of his game," said Ellis. "Coach gave him the op­portunity to create, and when you give him that opportunity, he'll shine for you every time." 


GETACTIVE!! 


RECYCLE 

IDTRE DAME 
1·1i7ii111)·UtJ 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste I Aluminum • Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
I The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1990~e14 
Men's tennis 6-1 going into showdown with Wake Forest 
I t 
Home matches get Irish off to 
strong start 
By BOB MITCHELL With three matches this Sports Writer weekend, Notre Dame can ill afford to look beyond Wake 
Just like parents who keep Forest because they could find their infant home for the first themselves in a long-drawn out few days, Notre Dame head contest. And that is the last po­coach Bob Bayliss has kept his sition the Irish want to be in young squad home for four out with this busy slate of weekend of their first seven matches, action. protecting them from the harsh "Wake Forest will be tough elements of life on the road. one through six," says Bayliss. 
And Bayliss' tender, love and "Their number-five and-six care has brought big rewards players are scrappy, competi­for the Irish. Namely, Notre tive players and their number­
Bob Bayliss
Dame has knocked off the then two player beat Walter Dolhare No. 24-ranked Mountaineers of chance of winning. But if we last year. We have to be ag­West Virginia and coasted to are off just a little bit, Wake gressive off the bat and take three simple victories over Forest is certainly capable of the play to Wake. We do have Bowling Green, Southern beating us." our nicks and bruises but noth­Illinois and Western Michigan Perhaps, the most attractive ing that bad." at home. matchup from a fan's stand­
Bayliss' strategic scheduling point is the battle at the num­The 1990 Irish squad is rais­will continue to keep the Irish ber-one position between Notre ing the eyebrows of the colle­at Notre Dame as they host Dame's Dave DiLucia and Wake giate world with their 6-1 four prominent collegiate Forest's Amelino. record. No one-not evt~n teams in four days. The "This will be one of the better Bayliss-envisioned this much Deacons of Wake Forest will be matches," said Bayliss. success so quickly for the team. the first team to stop over at "Amelino is an all-court player Notre Dame as they enter the who covers the court and "So far, this is the best-case Eck Pavilion tonight at 6:30 passes extn~mely well. Amelino scenario," said Bayliss. "I at­
p.m. won the consolation bracket of tribute it to a good, concertt~d 
The Deacons are annually the National Indoor group effort from a team which one of collegiate tennis' better Championships last weekend, works very hard and has fun teams. Their 1990 claim to so Dave will have a tough together, and the fact that a fame is their roster, including draw." couple of players have improved Gilles Amelino, who is ranked Yet, by no stretch of the their game a great deal. fifth among the collegiate ten­imagination is this a one-match 
The Observer I John Cluver 
nis ranks. contest. The Deacons are solid "I am sure we will take our Dave Dilucia's play in the No. 1 singles slot has helped the Notre "They are a pretty good, throughout the lineup and lumps, but the success we have Dame men's tennis team to a 6-1 record thus far. Dilucia will have to young team." said Bayliss. "It could, with a little luck and a this year will depend upon how be at his best today when he takes on fifth-ranked Gilles Ameline and will be a good match. If we play few good bounces, prove to be we deal with that adversity the Deacons of Wake Forest. well then we have a good 
a thorn in the Irish's side. when it comes." 
dose out the Irish recruiting class. 
"Andre is a distinct possibil­ity," said Holtz. "There will be a


Good day for the Irish Recruits 
continued from page 16 

scholarship available when he for 1,263 yards and 14 determines where he will at­tend."
touchdowns on 123 carries, a 

Five of Notre Dame's recruits
10-yard average, to lead

The Class of 1994 
played their high school ball in
Mackenzie to its first-ever state 

Florida. Ohio and Pennsylvania.
playoff appearance. 

~ 
traditional hot spots for Notre
"He's impressive on both

Pete Bereich LB 6-3 225 New Lenox, Ill. 
Dame, did not fare as well in
sides of the football," said

Jerome Bettis FB 6-1 240 Detroit 
the elass of 1994. Jerry Burris TB 6-1 185 Rock Hill, S.C. 
Holtz. "but he's a fullback, not 

"Your recruiting base alwaysa linebacker. He will not play • ~ lll has to be within 500 miles,"linebacker. We always need a Lou Holtz 
big, strong fullback, and he's in high school, will be used said Holtz. "Vinny Cerrato re­
Tom Carter DB 5-11 170 St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Willie Clark RB 5-10 170 Wheatland, Calif. 
cruited Florida by himself.
the only fullback we recruited strictly in the secondary. 
John Covington DB 6-2 190 Winter Haven, Fla. 
this year." The Irish recruiting effort is Chicago is our home base. Ohio Lake Dawson WR 6-2 185 Federal Way, Wash. 
Jeff Burris of Rock Hill, S.C., even more impressive in light of and Western Pennsylvania are who runs a 4.4 40-yard dash, the recent departures of assis­also very critical. But we will
Jim Flanigan LB 6-3 240 Southern Door, Wis. 
continue to recruit nationally." 
joins Bettis in a backfield which tant coaches John Palermo, Jim 
Oliver Gibson LB 6-4 232 Romeoville, Ill. 
loses Anthony Johnson's 515 Strong and Barry Alvarez. NOTES: Stonebreaker, Banks Brian Hamilton DL 6-4 235 Chicago 
yards and 13 touchdowns. "This is a football team that and George Williams all at­The secondary, depleted by has to be put back together," tended Tuesday's first winter
B.J. Hawkins QB 6-4 185 Dumfries, Va. 
the losses of Pat Terrell, Stan said Holtz. "That includes the program workout•••Tony
Clint Johnson DB 5-10 175 Lake Brantley, Fla. 
Smagala and D'Juan Francisco staff, and it does pose some Brooks, who has expressed in­
terest in returning to the foot­
Greg Lane RB 5-11 175 Austin, Texas 
to graduation and the still problems." 

The Irish have signed 23 ball team, was not permitted to
uncertain status of Todd Lyght,

Dean Lytle RB 6-3 220 Brovard, N.C. 
should be shored up by five new players to national letters of in­participate since he still has not
Oscar McBride TE 6-5 230 Chiefland, Fla. 
been readmitted to the
recruits. LeShane Saddler from tent. Andre Hastings, USA 
Kevin McDougal QB 6-3 180 Pompano Beach, Fla. 
Waterloo, Iowa, is the second­Today's Offensive Player of the University•..Spring practice Mike McGlinn OL 6-7 250 Kansas City, Mo. 
ranked safety in the nation. Year, is expected to decide be­runs from March 23 to April Clint Johnson from Lake tween Notre Dame and Florida 
28..•The winter program, open 
Anthony Peterson DE 6-2 218 Donora, Pa. 
Brantley, Fla., who played both State today. If signed, the re­to both athletes and non-ath­
Marvin Robinson DB 5-9 180 Tampa 
letes, began Tuesday. Tim Ruddy OL 6-4 260 Dunmore, Pa. 
LeShane Saddler DB 5-11 185 Waterloo, Iowa Aaron Taylor OL 6-4 270 Concord, Calif. Bryant Young DE 6-4 245 Chicago Heights, Ill. 
defensive back and quarterback ceiver from Morrill, Ga. would 

ATIENTION STUDENTS 
Off Campus SI~In -ups: February 12-16 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. 

Show a mus February 12-March 5 at LaFortune lnfonnatlon desk. On Campus SlJln -ups:
more KOOSI}{JI 
Now -March 5. Look for posters in respective donns. 
~appy 21s~ "Christmas In April 1990" will take place on April 7, In the Washington Street neighborhood
!Easy on the Vcdka 
This project needs your support! QUESTIONS??? Please call: 
The Gang 
Karen Croteau X1367 Lora Mangan X 1314 Isabel Navarrete X1314 Bob Scheibel X2544 

~~-----------~--­
Thursday, February 15, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 

Thursday 
4 p.m. 'Prospects for Peace and Democracy in Central America Lecture Series,' "The Bush Administration, Congress and Central America Beyond the Reagan Era?", Alexander Wilde, Washington Office of Latin America, Washington, DC. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Institute for International Peace Studies. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "Drug Epidemic? -Policy Alternatives," by Steve Thomas, Assistant Commissioner of Corrections, City of New York, and Visiting Assistant Professor at School of Public Policy, Duke University. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
7 p.m. Lectures on "Enhancing Interaction in the Healthy Family, with various panelists, Room 110 CCE. Sponsored by Department of Psychology and the Center for Continuing Education. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Nicaragua and Guatemala Today: The Story that Needs to be Told," a slide lecture by Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, O.P., director of Educational Media, in the ETS Theater, CCE. Sponsored by Educational Media. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Lemon Baked Cod Stir Fry Beef and Peppers Macaroni and Cheese Fried Bologna Sandwich 
ACROSS 25 Quip: Part II 
21 Portends1 Snatch 

5 Shore up 30 Dregs 9 Arrest 31 "High-," M. Anderson play 
13 Wedding missiles 34 Saharan 
14 One of Jupiter's 35 Pansy's pad satellites 
36 Mayor of Palm 15 Sugar-maple Springs spout 
37 Crest 16 Indian tourist 
38 Kodiak, e.g. 

town 40 Emulated 17 Currier's partner 
Clementine's 18 Boccaccio's dad "The-Heart" 
41 Quip: Part Ill 19 Start of a quip 
44 Emulate Delbert 

22 Ands, in Avignon 
Mann 23 Tippler's trouble I 
46 Today's jrs., next 24 Factories, to Fifi year 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE CROSSWORD 


20 Roman date 21 Being 25-rover 
(children's game) 26 Raid warning 21 Belfry occupant 28 Pizarro's quest 29 Pickpocket 31 Heavy weight 32 Bill passed regularly 

3311 spared, it spoils 35 One-celled microorganisms 36 Encore! 38 Type of lace 39 Apiece 40 Tableland 41 Famous Vienna park 42-Baline (Irving Berlin) 
-.. 
43 Delicate 
pancakes 44 Resided 45 "-little 
pony .. " 47 Unlucky number 
on a match 48 Bulrushes 49 Plus item 51 Foot: Comb. 

form 52 Corny 53 Mayday's cousin 
47 Ditty syllable 50 End of the quip 53 Former Pacific 
defense gp. 54 Harvest 
55 "Scourge of mortals": Homer 
56 Of the distant past, poetically 57 Bright thought in Toulon 
58 Ancient Persian's contemporary 
59 Play the lead 
60 Has the misery 61 Gnat or rat 
DOWN 1 Rasp 
2 Correct 3 Character in "The Rivals" 4Grin 
5 Column base 6 Change the text 7 Genethliacons 
a Grazed upon 9 Generates 
10 Give a tenth of one's income 11 Lineup in a supermarket 
events 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 




~H.UH/HH/H/H///H////H//H/HHHH//H//H///HH//H//h'//H//H/::f'H/,WY.0'YH////h'//////H///HH//H•.W:M'HHH/H///h'/HH/UAW"UH/AWUH"~HHH/H~ 
~ ~  ~  
~ ~  ~  
~ 7f!JJ/B Jl3 0TJJ,(!J/l Jl3TF®rJ/}J,(!JfF!l ~  ~ l!J] 00 Executive Council Positions for 1990-91  ~  
~ ~  ~  
~ ~  ~  
~ ~  Applications for: Board Manager  ~  
~ ~  Director ofProgramming  ~  
~ ~  Director o~"Relations  ~  
~ ~  ~  ~  
~ ~  Now available at the Director ofMarketing  ~  
~ ~  ~~  ~  
~ Thursday, February 15 ~  Secretary's Desk •  ~  
~ 8:00 and 10:15 ~  2nd Floor LaFortune  ~  
~ Cushing Auditorium ~  ~  
~ ~  ~  
~ $2.00 ~  Due February 22, 1990  ~  
~ ~  STUDENT U~IO~ B~RD  ~  
~ ~  - ~  

.. 

~///h'////h'//H//////h'H//HHH///h'H/HD'////h'/HAWHAV~HHHHH/H/HHH/.UAWH/HH~~AWAW'H/H_A 
I 
I 
I 
j 




Sports

page 16 Thursday, February 15, 1990 
A second-half defensive adjustment and a 'take charge' game by Joe Fredrick gave the Notre Dame men's basketball team a 79-76 victory over Marquette Wednesday at the Joyce ACC. 
"We knew we'd have a pretty tough game," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "In the second naif when we finally went to the zone, I thought it was the best thing we could do ...it took away their inside game. We kept that away, and then went to their outside shooting and we got some key defensive rebounds." 
"I liked the way our team played," Marquette head coach Kevin O'Neill said. "we'll keep playing aggressive and hope some of the breaks go our way." 
Co-captain Fredrick scored a season-high 22 points on 7 -of-13 shooting (3-of-4 three-pointers, 5-of-6 from the line) to lead the Irish. but his play in the second half. when saddled with four fouls, dn~w aecolades from Phelps. 
"Joe came through when we needed it," Phelps said. "He took charge tonight. and that's what we needed from him." 
No one took charge in the first half except the referees, who called 20 fouls in the first half and 50 in a game that appeared to be relatively dean. Three Marquette players fouled out in the second half. 
The final seore was eloser than the Irish would have liked. Marquette nearly took the lead to end the first half, as a halfeourt swish by Tony Smith was launched just after the buzzer sounded. 
Notre Dame led by two at the half, 35-33. and the teams traded 
" 
...,.

baskets for the first ten minutes of the second period. Included in 
The Observer I Scott McCann
that stretch were five Notre Dame fouls in 25 seconds, two each 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team got some unexpected help
on Fredrick and Keith Robinson. Fredrick sat with his fourth with 
from Elmer Bennett Wednesday, as Bennett's 16 points and game­
14:32 to play. 

high six assists lifted the Irish to a 79-76 win over Marquette in the 
see WARRIORS I page 13 
Joyce ACC. 
By THERESA KELLY 

When Notre Dame needed
Sports Editor 

some scoring punch late in 
ND women prepare to host Titans 
Robinson's play keeps Irish undefeated in MCC games 

By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
When asked what one factor sparked the Notre Dame women's basketball team to its 59-46 victory Tuesday night over Butler, head coach Muffet McGraw could give only one re­ply. 
"Karen Robinson," said McGraw. "It's as simple as that." 

Robinson has a sprained an­Karen Robinson 
kle and was not expected to year, so I figured it would be no play. Yet when the Irish fell into big deal," said Robinson. "But a slump and needed some help, they've been playing really well 
the junior catalyst immediately and were psyched up." answered the call. · Although Notre Dame jumped 
"Karen was on crutches the to a 10-point lead, some big day of the game and we didn't plays from the Bulldogs put think she would play," McGraw them back in the fight. The explained. "Then when we Irish headed to the locker room 
needed her she came in and trailing by two, 28-26. sunk a couple of big baskets "We were slumping and they right in a row for us." got some emotional plays," 
The injury occurred during continued the 5-6 guard, "and practice on Monday. Warming started thinking they could play
The Observer I Pat Kusek 
up for the contest with the with us. I told coach, 'If you
Margaret Nowlin tossed in 15 points to help the Notre Dame women's 
Bulldogs, Robinson planned on need me, I'm here.' " 
basketball team to a 59-46 MCC win over Butler Tuesday. The Irish 
missing the game. McGraw tested Robinson's 
prepare for yet another MCC matchup as they take on Detroit tonight. 
"We e hem earlier in the ankle b uttin the Irish scor­Wednesday's 79-76 win over Marquette, the Irish got it from the most unlikely of positions. 

Point guard. 

Sophomore Elmer Bennett, starting for the first time since last month's LSU game, recorded a game-high six as­sists and also scored 16 points. 12 of which came in the second half. The Irish had not seen those kinds of scoring numbers from their point guard all sea­son. 
"We wanted to p1metrate as much as we could, and with Elmer handling the ball, I think he can go and score," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. 
Bennett has backed up Tim Singleton at point guard for much of the season. Singleton. a junior from New Orleans. ranks fourth on the all-time school assist list, but has aVPr­aged barely over live points a game. Bennett. while more prone to turnovers, has avPr­aged 9.3 points per game with 
see BENNETI I page 13 
ing leader on the floor with about a minute remaining in the first half. Once shn enterPd the game, Hobinson daims she pretty much forgot about the pain. McGraw then decided to use Robinson when Notre Dame needed her during a Bulldog scoring run in the second half. 
"We got lazy for a while and the shots weren't falling," McGraw commented. "Then Karen came off the bench and sunk those key shots." 
Although the Irish did build a lead in the first half, Notre Dame shot a dismal 35 percent from the field. McGraw praised forward Krissi Davis for carry­ing the team in the absence of Hobinson's outside shooting. 
"Krissi Davis rebounded well and got us some points inside," remarked McGraw. 
Davis lead the team in scor­ing, rebounding and assists with 17 points, seven boards and six dishes to pace the Irish. Margaret Nowlin added 15 points and did not miss a shot. 
see DETROIT I page 11 
1994 football recruiting class may be Holtz's 'best yet' 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 

Football coach Lou Holtz announced that this 
season's recruiting class might be his best yet at 
Notre Dame at Wednesday's press conference 
kicking off National Signing Day. 
"On paper, I feel better about this group than any we've ever recruited," said Holtz. "I've never had a group of freshmen that impressed me more as people. We satisfied most of the needs we had, and many of these freshmen will make a contribution." 
The Irish once again have perhaps the finest recruiting class in college football-one that is stocked with running backs and defensive backs. Speed is the most prominent characteristic among this year's recruits. 
Since Notre Dame does not recruit for any single year, depth at linebacker represented a pressing ·need for Holtz. Oliver Gibson, USA Today'.§ 
Defensive Player of the Year out or Romeoville, Ill., should alleviate the problems posed by Ned Bolcar's graduation this year and those of Donn Grimm and Michael Stonebreaker next year. 
"We have to have great linebackers," Holtz said. One of the biggest problems at Notre Dame has been lack of depth at linebacker. I think the freshmen are really going to make a big difference on our football team. 
"I promised Oliver Gibson he could play linebacker, and I promised him he could play basketball if his grades stay good." 
Pete Bereich of New Lenox, Ill., and Jim Flanigan of Southern Door, Wis., are also among the nation's best linebackers. Flanigan is the fifth-ranked prospect at his position, and Bereich is listed sev­enth in the country. 
Besides the loss of Tony Rice to graduation, the need to recruit quarterbacks arose from Rick Mirer's nagging back problems. Kevin McDougal of Pompano Beach, Fla., and B.J. Hawkins of Dumfries, Va., were both signed by Wednesday. 
Adding another dimension to the Irish passing game is tight end Oscar McBride of Chiefland, Fla. McBride is the Florida state discuss champion and is considered one of the top tight end prospects in the country. 
Every year, the tight end Notre Dame recruited the previous year acts as host when the new recruit arrives on campus. Frank Jacobs hosted Derek Brown, Brown hosted Irv Smith and this year. both Brown and Smith hosted McBride. 
"The real credit (for recruiting McBride) goes to our players," said Holtz. "Coaches only neutralize other coaches. The ~yers make the new recruits feel comfortable.'' 
Jerome Bettis from Detroit's Mackenzie High School, the most highly-recruited player in Michigan, topped Notre Dame's impressive Jist of running backs. The 6-0, 240-pound fullback rushed 
see RECRUITS I page 14 


