
VOL. XXIII NO. 95 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Schmidt, Lowry,Belin elected unopposed 
By CHRISTINE GILL posed again. This is our num­Saint Mary's Editor ber one priority." 
Saint Mary's student body Class officer elections were elections. held Wndnesday. re­also held, with the senior class sulted in the unopposed ticket ticket of Lowell Lehmann, Jeni of Kathy Schmidt, Maureen Racine, Marjorie Maley and Lowry and Maggie Belin win­Lauren Jaworowski winning ning the positions of Student with 53 percent of the vote. Body President, Vice-President The race for junior class of­of Student Affairs and Vice­fices had the single ticket of President of Academic' Affairs Greer Gilliland. Sarah Boyle, and College Relations, respec­Leslie Tedrow and Joelle tivnly. Pouliout gaining 84 percent of 
the ballots. 

The ticket. emphasizing Colleen Rhattigan, Tina Car­"Experience Guides, Dedication rara, Gretchen Bath and Lisa Works," gained the majority Minichillo will be the sopho­vote needed with 90 percent of more class officers after win­the student's votes. "We are ning 52 percent of the votes. All happy with the turnout of vot­of the victorious candidates ers and although we ran unop­take over their respective of­posed. we're not any less ex-. fices on April 1. cited about the victory," Schmidt said. "We plan to so­Elections Commissioner, licit ideas from the student Molly Bringardner, said she body, since there weren't other was happy with the competi­candidates, there wasn't a tiveness of the class races and chance to exchange ideas that, "the the tickets that were through the debate or cam­running unopposed should not paign." Schmidt continues, "We be penalized. I wouldn't con­want to get as many people in­sider it student apathy, but volw~d as we can. so there rather student awareness of won't be a ticket running unop-the candidate's credibility." 
Rights report criticizes Cuba, China; praises Soviet Union 
Wi\SIIINGTON (API advances in Eastern Europe. In Cuba, meanwhile, the re­a 35-nation pledge to foster port sketched a gloomy globe. Crackdowns in China and Cuba He told a House Foreign Af­port said President Fidel Castro human rights, in which Moscow From beheadings and ampu­drew strong criticism from the fairs subcommittee that the "has taken or fabricated op­joined. tations in Saudi Arabia to stu­Statn Department in its annual crackdown on pro-democracy portunities to harass, detain or Though the top leadership no dent detentions in Liberia and human rights report to iorces in China last year "put imprison" 50 human rights ad­longer .fosters anti-Semitism to disappearances in El Sal­Congress on Wednesday in con­into reverse, in very short vocates while the Marxist gov­and appears embarrassed by it, vador, the document catalogued trast to praise for "a remark­order, much of the significant ernment "silenced many of its "there has been a sharp in­man's inhumanity to man in able opening of the political movement toward a more open leading domestic critics." crease in popular expressions virtually every conceivable way. process" in the Soviet Union. society which had taken place The picture in the Soviet of anti-Semitic attitudes," the It said: 
The human rights situation in China .luring the last 10 Union was brighter. Under report said. "Jews have been • Pro-democracy demonstra­on the West Bank and in Ga.za, years." President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, increasingly concerned over the tors were gunned down in the where Palestinian Arabs are in _There was no indication, the report said, "the past year danger of violence." area of Beijing's Tiananmen the 27th month of an uprising however, that the Bush admin­witnessed a remarkable open­Schifter, in presenting the Square last June, and indepen­against Israeli control, was de­istration was about to harden ing up of the political process worldwide findings, said the dent observers were cited as scribed as "a source of deep its policy toward China, which and improvements in human "specter of totalitarianism is at challenging the official toll of concern." several members of Congress rights practices." long last disappearing from 20 executions as unrealistically 
Assistant Secretary Richard have likened to kid-gloves Still, the report said, the So­Europe." He added: "As of to­low. Schifter. the principal compiler treatment. Schifter said the viet Union "has a considerable day, Albania is the only relic of • In Myanmar, formerly of the 1,641-page document, United States must maintain distance to go before it will the age of Hitler and Stalin left Burma, men forced to walk contrasted suppression in ties to Beijing in order to bring meet the standards set forth in intact in Europe." China with giant human-rights about improvements. the Helsinki Final Act" of 1975, And yet, as a whole, the re-see Rights I page 6 
Havel says Europe 'will decide for itself' on troops there 
Wi\SIIINGTON (API items) yesterday," said presi­
row of the visitor's gallery. place to suggest specific moves Czechoslovak President Vaclav dential spokesman Marlin Speaking through a transla­to the United States. Havel told Congress Wednesday Fitzwater. He said they talked tor, Havel called Czechoslovakia The members of Congress that his nation welcomes U.S. at length Wednesday about the one of Eastern Europe's came to their feet when Havel help after decades of Soviet future of Europe and agreed to "wayward children" and said it said his country's peaceful rev­domination but that eventually stay in close contact during this wants to coordinate its return olution was inspired by the U.S. Europe must "decide for itself' period of rapid change. to the economic and political Constitution, Bill of Rights and how long American and Soviet Havel, the first of the new mainstream with Hungary, Declaration of Independence. troops should remain. East European leaders to ad­Poland and other nations "They inspire us to be citizens," 
His speech, to a joint meeting dress Congress, said the United emerging from 40 years of So­he said. of the House and Senate, came States could best help his coun­viet domination. After his White House meet­a day after President Bush told try by pressing the Soviet Union The United States can best ing, Havel was leaving Wash­the playwright-turned-president to stay on its own road to aid that return, he said, by ington for New York and meet­that NATO would "continue to democracy. helping the Soviet Union "on its ings with business leaders ­play a vital role in assuring He said he recognized a need irreversible, but immensely and a rock concert in his stability and security in for U.S. troops in Europe. VaclavHawl complicated road to democ­honor. Europe" and that the United But, he added, "Sooner or racy." Havel, the first head of state States would maintain a later, Europe must recover and his country to lead during its "The more quickly and the from his country to visit Wash­"strong military presence." come into its own, and decide time of rapid transition, re­,more peacefully the Soviet. ington, said that Europe is 
At Bush's request, Havel re­for itself how many of whose ceived a two-minute standing Union begins to move along the leaving th~ "antiquated strait­turned to the White House after soldiers it needs." ovation in the crowded House road towards genuine political jacket" of a world dominated his speech to Congress. White In a speech that was largely chamber, and appeared some­pluralism" and economic re­by two superpowers for one in House aides said the 45-minute philosophical, Havel said Amer­what stiff and surprised at the form, "the better it will be -which nations can stand more return session was not designed icans need to learn, along with reception. not just for Czechs and Slovaks, independently. to smooth over any differences his country, "how to put moral­As he began to speak, U.S. but for the whole world," he Lawmakers applauded his on troop levels, but to complete ity ahead of politics, science tennis star and former said. conclusion that American talks on economic issues and and economics." Czechoslovak citizen Martina Addressing reporters later, troops will be able to return trade. Havel, who reluctantly ac­Navratilova dabbed at her eyes Havel declined to elaborate on 
see Slavs/ page 6

"They didn't get to all (the cepted the popular mandate of with a handkerchief in the top that call, saying it was not his 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Fun in Phys. Ed. hit me during volleyball 
At 1:20 p.m., the most dreaded part of my day begins. It's not an intense semi­nar. with papers on Paul Pearson the existence of the News Copy Editor 
universe due every 
week. It's even worse. 
It's Phys. Ed. 
Let me sum up my 
Physical Education 
routine for the past 
13 years. Paul shows up. Paul screws up. 
Paul leaves with his ego flattened. 
When I entered my latest Phys. Ed. rota­
tion, Beginning Volleyball, the instructor 
told us, "It's very important to have fun 
here." I chuckled and said to myself "It's 
awfully hard to have fun while you're having 
your butt systematically kicked from one 
end of the gym to the other." 
After learning the do's and don't's of 
volleyball, such as "Don't serve the ball into 
the ceiling," we were divided into teams for 
a round-robin tournament. The instructor 
said "There will be a prize for the team that 
compiles the best record." The team that 
won got to leave with its self-confidence in­
tact. 
I knew things were going to be bad from the first serve. The girl standing behind me hit the ball and wondered where it went. BOOM!! Right in the back of my head! "It's going to be one of those rotations," I thought. 
Despite that serve, we won the game. But it was the only game we won. In fact, it was the only game we even came close to win­ning. As one of my teammates said, "We don't belong on a volleyball court. We belong on a Saturday morning cartoon." 
Not that we were all terrible. Some of us were great players. One guy, Rich, was phenomenal. He played four positions at once, to cover for those of us who couldn't even hit the ball. Unfortunately, despite his (and our) best efforts, we went into the final day of the tournament with a 1-8 record. By that time, I decided to stop trying to play well and to just start playing. 
Then we played even worse. That last day, I collided with at least two other players, missed four balls I tried to hit, and missed God-knows-how-many spikes. By then, it didn't matter. 
In the end, our record was 1-11 and we were proud of it. The last time we won the serve, we cheered louder than the team that won the tournament ( they won a bag of Snickers). 
As you are reading this, I am on my way to Conditioning. I can see the headline now: "Freshman strangles self with bench press bar." I think this time I'll try to have a little more fun. 
So here's to Rich, Bill, Fred and the rest of the now world-famous "Saturday Morn­ing Cartoon Crew." Thanks for helping turn Phys. Ed. into first-rate fun. Isn't that what Phys. Ed. is supposed to be about? 
The vi~ws expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
News  
Maureen Nelligan  Systems  
Sports  Janice O'Leary  Molly Schwartz  
Molly Mahoney  Joe Moody  Deb Walker  
Production  Acoenl  Business  
Christine Labaree  Shonda Wilson  Mike Kolar  
Kristin Costello  Fran Moyer  Monica Yant  
Alison Cocks  Caroline Clarke  
VIewpoint  
Kevin Reisch  Ad Design  Graphics  
Katie Foster  Val Poletto  Bradford Boehm  
John Cronin  Lisa Gunsorek  
Ryan Roberts  
Quinn Satepauhoodle  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 22. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © rn ~ [}]
' 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
A Pasta Lunch is being served today at the esc from 
11:30 to 1:30 p.m.. It benefits the YWCA Battered Women's Shelter. All are welcome. 
Charity Ball needs enthusiastic volunteers for the 1990 Committee. All those interested should attend tonight's meeting at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune or call Shannon McAuliffe 283-4230 or Brian Liptak 283-3661. 
WORLD 
A Palestinian who is considered a potential peace negotiator said Wednesday that Jewish settlers in the oc­cupied lands could stay in a future Palestinian state if they integrated into Arab villages. "People who want to live in mixed Jewish-Moslem-Christian villages, that's fine, but there will be no room for ghettos," pro-PLO activist Faisal Husseini said, speaking to about 200 Israeli ac­tivists of a newly formed peace movement of Sephardic Jews from slums and poor towns. 
NATIONAL 
Devoted "skin-heads," characterized by their shaven heads, were accused of beating up blacks and His­panics and plotting to gas Jews by putting cyanide in a synagogue's air conditioning. The defendants are on trial on federal civil rights charges alleging they vandalized a synagogue. Three also are accused of chasing blacks and Hispanics out of a park, named for a Confederate gen­eral, that they claimed for themselves. Security on the courtroom floor was tighter than usual. Visitors were asked to empty their pockets for inspection. 
Atlantis' commander got a sore throat Wednesday, forcing NASA to postpone for at least 24 hours the launch of the shuttle on a secret, all-military mission to put a spy satellite in orbit. A space agency statement said a bad weather forecast also was a factor in the post­ponement, but officials said that if not for the illness they would have continued the countdown, hoping for clear skies by launch time early Thursday. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for February 20. 1990 
"When a Man Loves a Woman," 
written by a Merrillville man 24 years ago and the Indiana University Singing Hoosiers vied for Volume in shares Grammy awards Wednesday. Calvin Lewis, 42, 
154.24 Million 
and co-writer Andrew Wright were nominated for Best Rhythm and Blues song of 1989. The awards were to be presented Wednesday night during a live telecast from the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. {\-.30 
S&P Composite 327.67 .!} .32
"The Holocaust was a hoax" said an 
Dow Jones Industrials 
IUPUI instructor. She was later suspended and is 
2583.56 .!} 13.29
seeking support from the Indiana Civil Liberties Union. Hiner taught that most Nazi concentra­
Precious Metals 
tion camp victims died of disease and starvation, 
Gold .!} $2.0 to $418/ oz. 
not in gas chambers. An estimated 6 million Jews were killed during Adolph Hitler's regime, many Sliver{\-6.4¢ to $5.28/ oz. in gas chambers, known as the Holocaust. 
Source: AP 

Yesterday's high: 33 
Yesterday's low: 24 
Nation's high: 86 
(Fort Myers, FL) Nation's low: -15 (Caribou, ME) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy Thursday with an 80 percent chance of rain. Highs in the middle 40s. Mostly cloudy and colder Tonight and Friday with a 30 percent chance of light snow. Lows Thursday night from the middle to upper 20s. Highs Friday from the lower to middle 30s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

B rn 


FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Rosemary Pherps (PSY) will discuss "Credible or not? Ethnic minorities and women in the classroom" to­morrow, Feb. 23, at 12:15 p.m. in Room 124 of the CSC. Faculty and staff especially encouraged to come. 
It's a wet Mardi Gras, with up to 5 inches forecast for today and Thursday, enough to turn the glossy paper mache floats of Carnival season into heaps of soggy newspaper. Since Sunday, at least of the six parades lead­ing up to Mardi Gras next Tuesday have been canceled or postponed because of rain. Fortunately, on Friday, skies should clear for two of the largest, most lavish parades on the weekend before Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday, which ends the feast of Carnival and begins the fast of Lent. 
President Bush will travel to New York and Cali­fornia next week for a series of Republican political events, the White House announced Wednesday. Bush will leave Feb. 28 for a Staten Island fund-raising dinner to benefit the congressional campaign of Republican Susan Molinari. He then will fly that evening to San Francisco to stump for Sen. Pete Wilson, who is running for governor 
of California. 

Mothers' breast milk contains natural tranquilizers, Swedish researchers reported Wednesday. The results could help explain why babies become calm and fall asleep after breast feeding, said Professor Sven Dencker of a hospital in Sweden. 
ALMANAC 

On February 22: e In 1819: Spain ceded Florida to the United States. e In 1865: Tennessee adopted a new constitution abolishing slavery. e In 1924: Calvin Coolidge de­livered the first presidential ra­dio broadcast from the White House. e In 1935: It became illegal 
for  airplanes  to  fly  over  the  
White House.  
e In  1980: In  a  stunning  

upset, the United States Olympic hockey team defeated the Soviets at Lake Placid, N.Y., 4-3. The U.S. team went on to win the gold medal. 
~-~-~-------~--------------~-­
~---~--­
Thursday, February 22, 1990 The Observer page 3 

East German official warns against rapid reunification 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -East Germany's foreign minister on Wednesday warned against rapid reunification, and his West German counterpart as­sured the victorious World War II ·Allies that nothing will be done behind their backs. 
In East Berlin, the govern­ment sought to assure worried citizens that there will be no immediate increases in state­subsidized food prices and an­nounced plans for large tax cuts to bolster private initia­tive. 
Fischer said during a Parliament debate that the uni­fication of Germany must be coupled with similar moves to­ward greater integration in Europe. 
"German unity must proceed at such a rhythm that it corre­sponds to the interests of the victorious powers and German neighbors," he said, adding that unification must not rattle European stability or the world's balance of power. 
West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich 

Foreign Minister Oskar Genscher said Germans must 

Panel sees hope for ordination of women 
By ANDREA CAVANAUGH News Writer 
The inclusion of women priests in the Catholic Church will have a "beautiful" effect on the Catholic community, a panel of two Notre Dame profes­sors and a senior student agreed. 
The panel, comprised of two Notre Dame theology professors and a senior stu­dent in the Program of Lib­eral Studies, discussed the history and symbolism of women priests. The Com­mittee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women sponsored the dis­cussion as the fifth of a series addressing the issue of women priests. 
"When you are reading these early Christian read­ings, it is like hearing a tele­phone from one end. It is important to keep that in mind," said Joseph Belkin­sopp, John O'Brien, profes­sor of Old Testament stud­ies. 
Belkinsopp said that the members of early Christian­ity had no individual titles, but most of the early leader­ship was held by males. He cited St. Paul as saying there should be " ... no male or fe­male... " but all should be "...one in Christ Jesus ... " 
Belkinsopp feels that the subordination of women is a dominant part of the Church's history. "We find if you take St. Thomas Aquinas ... he tells us where boys and the validly insane can be ordained, woman cannot." 
In spite of this, Belkinsopp believes that there is hope for the future of women 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
\YAY}\\f[F~ 

provide definite, binding recog­nition of European borders be­fore German unification is ac­cepted by all sides. · 
Responding to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's statement Tuesday that World War II Allies -the Soviet Union, the United States, Britain and France -had the final say on Germany's status, Genscher said: "We will never question this right." 
Talks between the two German states on reunification "will not be conducted behind Genscher said in an interview with Deutschlandfunk radio station. 
He also said Moscow had not specified what kind of interna­tional treaty it wants on German unification. 
Gorbachev said a reunified Germany must pledge to respect postwar borders in Europe. He specifically mentioned Poland, where one-third of the western territory belonged to Germany before World War II. 
Both Germanys are bound by treaties to respect the present would not be, and some conser­vatives in West Germany have suggested reunification be sought within the 1937 borders. 
Another sensitive issue raised by the rush toward unification has been the question of what to do with the large armies sta­tioned in both Germanys. 
The Soviet Union and East Germany insist that the com­bined state be neutraL West Germany and its Western allies want a united Germany to re­

priests. "The process can­not be defined as irre­versible." He desires a re­form of the Catholic doc­trines concerning the clergy. 
Adela Collins, professor of theology, discussed the sym­bolism of the priesthood. She said that the symbolism of the male in the Eucharist is not a valid reason to ex­clude women from the priesthood. 
Collins believes that the priest represents the Church turning towards God during the Eucharist. "If the priest represents the Church, then the woman can represent the Church as well as a man." 
Collins also drew an anal­ogy between the Eucharist and a meal. Since the woman is often viewed as the "nourisher," Collins said it is a role women can capably, easily and naturally fulfill. 
see Priests I page 6 



Nurse lectures on experiences in Armenia 
By COLLEEN TRAVERS News Writer 
Red Cross nurse Diane Hartwig presented a lecture and slide show of her experi­ences in Armenia following the 1988 earthquake. 
Hartwig travelled with the In­ternational Red Cross Society for a period of 6 months to help with their spinal cord unit. It was a shocking experience and according to Hartwig, "half a million people were injured, disabled, homeless, or dead." 
Help did not arrive to some of the small villages for at least 5 to 7 days after the earthquake. 

is accepting applications for the 1990-'91 Station Manager. Submit a personal statement including your qualifications to the station manager's mailbox in the studio (suite 200, LaFortune) by midnight, Sunday, February 25th. 


Wflt=ianJ 
&4 Tlte Voice of the Fighting Irish 

Hartwig pointed out that many of the villagers thought that it was a nuclear accident and they were the only ones to survive. 
Hartwig described many of her impressions of Armenia and the people she met. This in­cluded some of the more ex­treme customs that she was forced to get used to, including a nightly curfew of 10 p.m. and the constant presence of tanks and soldiers. 
"The whole idea of the project was to go in and train people so that they could keep the spinal cord program going on their own," claimed Hartwig. 
However, there we!e many difficult problems that ··the nurses had to face. One of the biggest problems was the very basic facilities that they were provided with. They were given a very limited supply of all nursing necessities. 
"One of the most exciting things was how much nursing we could do without nursing facilities," Hartwig said. 
Another problem was their lack of experience with spinal cord injuries. The Red Cross wqrkers had to try to educate the entire community as well as the local professionals. 
The program was extended from the original 6 months to 2 years and there are still Red Cross members working there. 
, 

WEEKEND DISCERNMENT EXPERIENCE 
Friday, March 2 
7:00ptn 
Saturday, March 3 9:00pm Moreau Seminary adjacent to Notre Dame campus 
For those studnets who wish to come together to learn more about discerning an interest in religious life and priesthood. 

Contact: Fr.John Conley, CSC HolyCross Fathers & Brothers Notre Dame, IN 239-6385 
j 

page 4 




Faculty Fellowship winners announced 
Special to The Observer 

Indianapolis-Faculty mem­bers at 17 Indiana colleges and universities will engage in op­portunities for personal and professional development under two annual competitive pro­grams sponsored by Lilly En­dowment Inc. 
The Lilly Endowment Faculty Open Fellowships will permit a total of 10 faculty members at seven Indiana public and inde­pendent institutions to take a leave from their normal aca­demic routine. Endowment awards of up to $25,000 will help sustain recipients while they pursue approved research or work-study programs of their own design. 
The program targets faculty members in mid-career -a time wh1m they are particularly vulnerable to occasional burnout. Since the program's inception in 1974, some 167 In­diana faculty members have partidpated. 
The Endowment has also se­lected 23 members at 12 of In­diana's independent colleges and universities for its Summer Stipend program. Winners will receive $5.000 for use in the summer to develop new courses for their institutions. A total of 111 faculty members have cre­ated new courses with the sup­port of stipends since 1983. 
In both the Faculty Open Fel­lowships and the Summer Stipend program, applicants submit proposals through their institution. Proposals are eval­uated by a panel of out-of-state judges. 
In announcing the 1990 win­ners, Endowment officials said, "The demand and response to these programs continues to be strong. Given the opportunity to improve themselves through fellowships or strengthen course offerings through stipends, faculty members at Indiana institutions are enthu­siastic participant." 
1990-91 Faculty Open Fellow­ship Winners include; J. Philip Bays, Professor of Chemistry and Physics of Saint Mary's College, Kathleen Biddick, As­sociate Professor of History, University of Notre Dame, So­nia Gernes, Associate Professor of English, University of Notre Dame and Thomas Whitman, Professor of Psychology, Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
1990 Winners of the Lilly En­dowment Summer Stipend Program's winning institutions, faculty and courses to be cre­ated include; Theodore Billy and Laura Haigwood, "Transatlantic Romanticism", Saint Mary's College, Hichard Jensen, "Statistical Methods for Biologists", Saint Mary's Col­lege, Bernard Doering, "Poets, Painters and Musicians of France". University of Notre Dame and George Lopez, "Teaching the Introductory In­ternational Helations Course As If Students Mattered", Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
Office of Advanced Studies retitled Graduate School in updating effort 
Special to the Observer 
The ·University of Notre Dame has changed the name of the unit responsible for post-bac­calaureate degrees in arts and sciences and engineering, as well as faculty research pro­
posals  to  private  and  public  
agencies.  
The  Office  of  Advanced  

Studies will now be called the Graduate School. The former 
Division of Sponsored Programs will be known as the Research Division of the Graduate School. 
Dr. Nathan Hatch, appointed vice president for advanced studies last July, will become vice president for graduate studies and research. The changes bring Notre Dame's nomenclature into line with that generally used in higher education. 

.. 
~ 



5£t ~~~~ 
D(IV£ 


Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 


THE NAIL STUDIO 
There are a variety ol technoques that our nail artists have been !rained to perlorm including art work and condltiomng of your nails. II you have had poor results tn lhe past elsewhere. why not try The Studto? Come tn for a tree evaluatioh of any natl problem. We have 1 J(klay guaranlee 
• Sotar Natll • Repetrs • Mantcures by Jecctca Flll-ln1 • UK Natl Jewelry • Whirlpool Pedtcures· 
Reg $40 Now $30 

I
$10 OFF 

I For Students I
The Castle 
272-8471

Bring in this ad I
Sl Ad_ 23 lit Ironwood Suit. 1 A By appointment only ConVflnient Parking I 
Expires 3/31/90 The Calle 27'2-0312 I 
_________________________j
I 
------~---------~­

The Observer I Marguerite Schropp
Can you pinch an inch? 

Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, director of athletics at Saint Mary's, administers a body composition analysis, or a body fat test, on sophomore Kelly McArdle. 
U.N. stresses attacks on drugs 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­European and Asian nations facing mounting problems from the illegal drug trade said Wednesday that regional and global attacks on trafficking and consumption must be co­ordinated to end the narcotics plague. 
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd told the U.N. special session on drugs that seizure of heroin in Europe has tripled since 1985, and cocaine seizures have quadrupled. He called it "a problem of night­mare proportions." 
"But it is not just a night­mare. It is real," Hurd said. 

Pakistani representative Kalim Oil Khan said that de­spite heightened efforts to eliminate illegal narcotics pro­duction in Southeast and Southwest Asia, drug abuse and crimes linked to the illicit trade increased there. 
Khan, federal secretary of Pakistan's Narcotics Control Ministry, told the session, "The loss of human lives resulting from drug trafficking and abuse is also increasing. That shows that something has gon.r wrong somewhere in our global strategy." 
He said Pakistan "has under­taken to declare war against narcotics and is committed to taking effective measures to eradicate the drug menace, both in the country as well ali at the regional level." 
U.N. agencies helped Pakistan develop projects to replace opium poppy cultivation with cash crops such as vegetables and fruit plants, Khan said. 
"No country can fight thf­scourge of drug abuse alone. We therefore expect the U.N. agencies to assist us in bringing about a positive change to solve this serious problem," Khan said. 
China's deputy health minis­ter, Gu Yingqi. said world ef­forts to fight drug trafficking must include safeguards to protect the sovereignty of all nations. 
Gu said no country should "threaten other countries with force, even armed invasion, un­der the excuse of fighting drugs or carrying out international cooperation for drug control." 
lie said in recent years illegal narcotics trafficking in China has involved "international drug gangs in collusion with unlawful Plements in China." The traffickers used Chinese border areas to ship drugs to other regions, he said. 
China believes drug-consum­ing nations bear the main re­sponsibility for redueing the demand for drugs, which will lead to supply reductions. 
~ Heats up vour weekend 
NIGIHCLUB 

10 p.m. Friday The Boathouse Blues live Saturday-the 10-2 Dance Party 



Security Awareness Days begin at SMC 
By CARLA PRANDO News Writer 
The Joint Meeting of the Saint Mary's· College Board of Governance and Board of Stu­dent Affairs began with Lisa Catenacci announcing a list of upcoming events. 
• 
On Monday, Feb. 26 Maley Johnson will be speaking in Stapleton lounge on the Black Catholic Experience. 

• 
Security Awareness Days begins on Tuesday. Feb. 27 with a panel discussion on per­sonal rights and responsibili­ties. 

•In 
conjunction with Security Awareness Days, Wednesday, Feb. 26 the aerobics classes 



is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 22 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
will be replaced with the Karate Academy demonstrating self­defense techniques. 
A recycling pilot program at Saint Mary's in cooperation with the Hope Rescue Mission will begin in the spring with re­ceptacles placed in every dorm for aluminum cans. 
Tricia Burke, director of the Alumnae Association, proposed a program which would link alumnae more closely with stu­dents. Burke suggested work­ing with student government to organize Founder's Day and other events to improve com­munication between alumnae and students. 
A joint event to take place during freshman orientation between Saint Mary's freshmen and Notre Dame freshman women was discussed. This event would attempt to prevent the formation of stereotypes about the women on both cam­puses. 

An announcement was made that Saint Mary's students· are welcome to participate in Bookstore Basketball at Notre Dame. Sign-ups will be from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in O'Shaughnessy Hall with a fee of $5. 
The meeting ended with some discussion of Senior Month and of the upcoming Charity Ball. 
Global warming linked to gases 
NEW YORK (AP) -Global warming over the past 30 years is almost certainly related to buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. as one might ex­pect if the greenhouse effect were responsible. a statistical analysis says. 
But the study cannot prove that the gas buildup caused the warming, researchers cau­tioned. 
Many scientists are concerned that continued buildup of car­bon dioxide and other gases in the atmosphere may lead to global warming that could alter climates. The atmospheric pro­cess is known as the green­house effect. 
But researchers disagree over whether gas buildup has caused any detectable warming yet. 
The new statistical analysis is presented in Thursday's issue of the British journal Nature by 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 
GETACTIVE!! 


RECYCLE 
ll£cYr£111 llllSN 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum eNewspapers e Glass 
For more information contact Paul Ruesch 2n-6172, or call 239-7668 

---------~--------------------., 
page 5 

Opposition party members allegedly murdered by rivals 
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) -Two opposition party ac­tivists were beaten to death and the tongue of one victim was cut out by party opponents. the traditionally anti-Communist National Peasants Party alleged Wednesday. 
Peasants Party spokesman Valentin Gabrielescu declined to­make specific accusations about who was behind the re­ported killings, but suggested they were politically motivated. 
Three suspects have been ar­rested in the Feb. 11 death and mutilation of Vasile Velescu, Gabrielescu said, refusing to identify them or their possible motives. 
He said only that Velescu, 60, "was killed because he was the chief of our organization" in Bacau, 180 miles northeast of Bucharest. 
Another party activist, from Calarasi County in southern Romania, also was murdered, Gabrielescu said. He refused to name the victim or give further details, saying he was following the wishes of the victim's fam­ily. 
There was no independent confirmation of the alleged murders. which would be the first ones with apparent politi­cal motives since the end of the revolution that overthrew and executed Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu in December. 
Gabrielescu warned of the possibility of further violence against the Peasants Party, the strongest rival of the National Salvation Front in Romania's elections in May. The front gov­erned alone for six weeks after 
Cynthia Kuo, Craig Lindberg and David Thomson of AT&T Bell Labs in Murray Hill, N.J. 
Their work used observations of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations taken monthly since 1958 at the summit of Mauna Loa in Hawaii. The val­ues are typical of measure­ments made at several sites. the researchers said. 
They compared the concen­trations to monthly averages of global temperature from 1958 to 1988 and found a strong statistical relationship between short-term fluctuations in the two trends. 
The chance of such a rela­tionship arising simply by chance is only about 2 in 1 mil­lion, the researchers said. 
That means "there is proba­bly some physical link" between the two trends but "there's no way to say which is causing the revolution before being pressured to share power with 37 other parties in a provi­sional Council of National Unity. 
Peasants Party members were "afraid to go ... to investigate exactly what happened," Gabrielescu said. 
Meanwhile, Romania's newly appointed minister of defense said that the Securitate, Ceaus­escu's infamous secret police, had been completely dissolved. The Securitate battled the army and civilians in the December revolution. 
But Col. Gen. Victor Stan­culescu said a new security force would be formed to pro­tect the state's interests. His comments were an apparent at­tempt to quell persistent con­cern that Securitate forces con­tinued to operate. 
A new security apparatus "composed of army officers who have proved their loyalty to the state" would be created "to protect it from those who would destablize society," he told the independent Romania Libera. 
In Bucharest and elsewhere, 3,294 Securitate members were put on reserve army status, in­cluding 611 officers of the former counter-espionage unit, he said. 
"The majority ... who gave il­legal orders or contributed to the repression of the revolution are under investigation, under arrest ... and will be tried," he said. 
which," Lindberg said in an in­terview. 
Some third factor, such as in­creased energy output from the sun, may be causing both ob­served trends, he said. 
The analysis found that changes in carbon dioxide con­centrations lagged behind those in temperature by five months. That might occur if warmer temperatures cause carbon dioxide to emerge from oceans or elsewhere in the environ­ment, Lindberg and Thomson said in telephone interviews. 
In a Nature editorial, re­searcher T.P. Barnett of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, Calif.. also said that the study's limitations mean it cannot be taken as proof of warming due to carbon dioxide. 
-~
• 

r 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1990 
r 
r Sandinistas end campaign with mass rally Iceberg Debates 
MANAGUA. Nicaragua (AP) 
war against the U.S.-supported -Thousands of people gath­Contra guerrilla movement. ered on flag-bedecked streets Alvarado said bitterly he had Wednesday for a campaign­been unable to walk since Aug. closing rally in support of 1, 1983, when he was blasted President Daniel Ortega and the by a Contra grenade. He said he Sandinista party's effort to and 22 other paraplegic veter­keep its power for six more ans had wheeled their way on years. group's 17-day, 160-mile trek 
"Let's celebrate victory now!" from the Honduran border read the front-page headline In town of El Espino. Barricada, the official Sandin­Public transport was nearly ista National Liberation Front non-existent in Managua as newspaper, with Sunday's elec­buses and trucks were diverted tion four days away. to taking people to a large 
The headline was sandwiched lakeside plaza for the rally. between color photos of Ortega The vote -to choose a presi­and his running mate, Vice Violeta Barrios de Chamorro of dent and vice-president, a 90­President Sergio Ramirez. the United National Opposition, member National Assembly, 
Many Sandinista supporters 1 coalition of 14 parties and municipal councils for 144 began gathering before dawn, one native Indian organization. towns, and two regional coun­sporting yellow, red or black "We are here to support the cils for the Atlantic Coast -is "Daniel Presidente" T-shirts revolution and defeat Violeta seen as a plebiscite on 10 years and baseball caps in the party's and her Contra friends," said of Sandinista rule. red-and-black colors. Tomas Alvarado, one of about Despite a massive campaign 
Ortega's main challenger is 250 disabled veterans of the effort and opinion polls that 
ropean peace conference "that "We are still under the sway would finally put a formal end of the destructive and vain be­
Slavs 
to the Second World War and lief that man is the pinnacle of continued from page 1 all its unhappy consequences." creation, and not just a part of 
At a brief news conference it, and that therefore everything home "because Europe will at later, he suggested such a is permitted." last be able to stand guard over meeting might come in 1991. His speech came a day after itself." Turning philosophical, he Havel got promises from Bush 
In the meantime, he declared, said years of repression have of freer trade between the two ·:czech~~~lovakia is returning to given his countrymen time to countries and incentives for hurope. ponder what is truly important, new investment and economic 
Havel called for the removal and said Americans can learn development. of "as many Soviet (military) from that experience as well. The Bush administration and units as possible" from his "The salvation of this human leading lawmakers also have country before national elec­world lies nowhere else than in proposed expanding an aid tions scheduled for June. the human heart, in the human program begun last year for 
He also called for moving up power to reflect, in human Poland and Hungary to include the Helsinki II international meekness and human responsi­Czechoslovakia and other coun­conference now planned for bility," Havel told the lawmak­tries emerging from Soviet 1992 and turning it into a Eu-ers. domination. 
crackdown, the report cited a in aid to Israel or make it con­
Rights 
significant increase in Pales­ditional on an improved record. tinian violence against Pales­
continued from page 1 
tinians. spurred by a growing In Jerusalem, Moshe Raviv, ahead of army troops in mine­Islamic fundamentalist Hamas the deputy director general of infested fields were blown up. movement. the foreign ministry, said U.S. 
• In Iran, prisoners were criticism of Israel's handling of flogged and suspended from Israeli government guidelines Palestinian human rights failed the ceiling, according to eyewit­to restrict use of force were vi­to take into account that Israel nesses and human rights olated and prosecution resulted was reacting to violence by groups. only in a "relatively small num­Palestinians. 
generally give Ortega the lead, The following are the results of the there was still uncertainty semifinals of the Iceberg Debates held about the outcome. 
Wednesday night. 
Many of Nicaragua's 1.75 Aff Fisher 1 million registered voters are Neg Breen-Phillips 2 reluctant to speak their minds to strangers and the large San­Aff Pasquerilla East 2 dinista rallies appear padded Neg Lyons 1 by public employees and others pressured to attend. Aff Pangborn 2 
Neg Alumni 1 

UNO, as the bloc is known, closed its campaign Sunday Aff Grace 2 with the largest opposition Neg Pasquerilla West rally since the Sandinistas took 
power in July 1979, gathering The winners here will compete on 60,000 people at the Plaza of Tuesday, Feb. 27. the Revolution. 
Wednesday also was the 56th anniversary of the assassina­tion of Gen. Augusto Cesar Sandino, a nationalist hero for whom the Sandinistas are named. 
Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.l., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has pro­posed sweetening the program with an additional $511 million next year and including new countries that meet certain tests for economic and political reform. 

c-Ib_~ e-~~--=-~­
-LADI:C~W!J.: -­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 23 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
Israel, a democracy, came in for little criticism. But there was concern about the occupied West Bank and Gaza. 
A total of 432 Palestinians were reported killed in 1989 ­304 by Israeli security forces and settlers and 128 by other Palestinians. 
While the Israeli defense forces engaged in a severe ber of such incidents," the re­port said. 
James Zogby, executive direc­tor of the Arab American Insti­tute, called the report a brutal indictment of Israeli occupa­tion, said pro-Israel groups applied pressure to mute the criticism nd said Congress should either cut the $3 billion 

Having male priests, the Church constructs a barrier so that women cannot respond tcr 
Priests 
continued from page 3 
God's call. 

Gina Perez, a senior student in the Program of Liberal Stud­ies, said, "Women have consis­tently been the silent strength of the Church." 
Perez said that when people celebrate the Eucharist, the event is all-inclusive. "The agent performing the Eucharist should be all-inclusive as well." 
Perez believes that the Church's change for the inclu­sion of women priests will be "beautiful." 
SECURITY BEAT 

MONDAY, FEB.19 
10:55 p.m.; A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that his car had been vandalized. Unknown person(s) had broken the antenna off of his car. 
11:07 p.m.; Notre Dame Security stopped three suspicious people In the 0-6 lot. The individuals were informed that Notre Dame is private property and were asked to leave. 
TUESDAY, FEB.20 
6:12 a.m.; On routine patrol of the parking lots, Notre Dame Security found that two of the cars in the Q-12 lot had been vandalized. Unknown person(s) had gained accesa to the vehicles by breaking rear 'lll'indowl;. 
8:45p.m.; A vieilor to campus reported that his jacke1 wa& stolen from the Tip­Off Club room in IN JACC sometime during the game. His 1oes is estimated to be $180.00. 





IN EASTERN EUROPE 
Tiusdl\f, Feh 22, 1990 
TBA
7:00pn M!Ugo!Jey 'I'he*r, 

Panel DiscuJSioll/FoDow Up: LaFortune Student Center 
"What do the issues in Eastern 

Europe mean to students as "Solidarity and the Future of 
Panel Di~a~ulon: 

members of the ND community, Poland: After the Euphoria" 
and as citizens of a nation?" 

F.E.E.D. M.E.
Prot. Andrzej W•llldrl, 

Observer, Scholastic. Mr. ,..&op.ky, Graduole Sludenl 
O'Neil Chairman. Hlslory 
Common Sense, Dialogue

Fabulous Eastern European D~r: Meal and Entertainment. Dinner and Polka Dance!
Prof. J.c.lc K. FutrlyM, 

reporters who covered the Prof. C1onMd r. Crllr:lllt>W, 
ProleMOr. Phyolca 

Saturday, February 24, 1990 
events (Yes, undergradsf)

6:30pm North Dining Hall, North Wing • Reservations Required: Call 239 • 7668 • 
Auoclale Proleuor. Hlslory 


--·-------~-~-------·--------~-·----------~--------------------·--·-~-------------~-------·-­
Business 
Thursday, February 22, 1990 
ND endowment ranks 1st of Catholic schools 
turns are then spent on Univer-of the gifts come from alumni, "People-invest money because 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
sity programs. A gift represents but others come from individu­they see something they like.
Business Writer 
a certain percentage of the als or groups "generally inter-Investors see in us the unique­
A survey of the National As-endowment and takes returns ested in Notre Dame and things ness of our Catholic character sociation of College and Uni-from the endowment according that Notre Dame is doing." and our commitment to strong versity Business Officers re-to its percentage in the pool. In the present fundraising academic standards," he said. vealed that Notre Dame's en-"Whatever the endowment's campaign for the endowment, At present efforts, Mason dowment ranks as the 18th earnings are, that is what you Mason notes that some pro­sees the endowment eventually largest in the nation. spend. Where the University grams have fallen short of their reaching the top ten or twelve 
The 1989 endowment was the spends the money depends on original monetary targets. "We of the nation. largest of any Catholic college where the donor specifies," said need to prioritize our unmet Harvard leads all colleges or university in the U.S. Thomas Mason, Vice President needs," he said. and universities with a 1989 
The market value of the Uni-of Business Affairs. Presently, the top three prior-endowment of $4.5 billion. versity of Notre Dame's en-Father William Beauchamp, ities are undergraduate finan-Beauchamp noted that when dowment was $542.5 million as Executive Vice President of the cia! aid, graduate stipends and the three largest endowments of June 30, 1989. This value University, said the endowment fellowships, and money for the for Harvard, University of represents an increase of 17 increased because "our invest-library. Texas and Texas A & M are percent from the 1988 endow-ment advisors have done very Notre Dame's endowment removed from consideration, ment of $463.5 million. well. We're very pleased." ranked 23rd in 1988. The 1989 Notre Dame is extremely com­
The endowment is a invest-Beauchamp expressed Notre ranking of 18th represents a petitive for the rest of ranked ment fund that takes gifts from Dame's goal of remaining "a significant increase. Mason at­colleges. individuals or groups and great Catholic University. A tributes this jump not only to Mason said, "another leap of places that money into a gen-strong endowment is needed to good investments, but also to four or five ranking points is eral pool. As the fund's invest-maintain that (status)." the strong efforts of the very feasible." ments earn money, those re-Mason mentioned that some fundraising committee. 
Students give assistance to low income taxpayers, ND employees 
By LIZ HOLlZ The prerequisite to this class hines with accountants from spreading the centers around teen years old and was started Business Wnter is ACCT 476, Introduction to the CPA firm of Umbaugh and so they would be easily accessi-by two Notre Dame students Federal Taxation. Associates, to help Plymouth ble." who were interested in helping "There. are about forty-five residences do their taxes," said The Center For Social Con-the community by preparing
The Tax Assistance Program students m the class and we are Wochner. cerns is one of these sites, and tax returns for the low income (TAPI is a one credit class at 
distributed among nine centers Crowe Chizek, Price Water-is open to ND employees with taxpayers.
Notre Dame in which students and two SWAT teams (Students house, Coopers and Lybrand, annual incomes at or below "Most people don't do it justassist low income taxpayers Working At Taxation)," said and Metzger and Mancini are $20,000. for the one credit, they do it be-with free preparation of their Wochner. the other CPA firms involved in "The faculty members are cause it's a great experience. Istate and federal tax returns. 
"The ~WAT teams have vari-this prog:am. actively involved and most have recommend people with a
"The class {ACCT 486} is one 
credit and is composed almost ous ?utJes. One team goes to The size of the student been for many years. Notre background in taxation get in-entirely of accounting majors. nursmg homes, centers for the groups vary from two to seven, Dame faculty members are co-volved in this program," The class itself lasts for three elderly, Logan Center, Goodwill depending upon the size of the ordinator Ken Milani Beth Wochner said. weeks and now we are working ~~~ustry's, h~spi.tals, and even center and location. . . Kern, Kevin Misiewic~, Ray An appointment is necessary 
VISit shut-ns, said Wochner. The centers are d1stnbuted Powell and Jim Wittenbach." and can be made by contacting 
in teams once at week at differ­ent centers until April 12th," "The other team ~oes to the throughout !he"Michi~na area. Saint Mary's is represented by Professor Kenneth Milani, TAP 
Marshall County Neighborhood Wochner said, We tned to get Claude Renshaw. program director, at 239-5296.
said Monica Wochner, public 
relations director for TAP. Center in Plymouth and com-a good coverage of the area This rogram (TAP) is nine-

Tim 
FULL SERVICE FLORIST 

Balloon Plants Bouquets Bouquets Cor§ages Arrangement 
[M]®~~w
Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil 
r----------------------, ~~®U
11 0°/o OFF CASH AND CARR'fl 1 with SMC or NO student ID I 
Love from your 
'Die cro.lllfJII Mall 

If}<).ire !Prig to drink and dri-.e 
------------------------·
Sout.b ot UJdvawlt)' F.-11 1111111 
at least let tre rest ofus kncm.

Family and
Mishawaka. 111 46M~ 5 
211-1291 901 Grape Rd. 

Friends
' 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 22, 1990
pageS 
The Obset:Ver~ __ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg1s Cocc1a  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  ...Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager . . . ..Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager .......... Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Blas1  Systems Mgr  ... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Enc Bailey  OTS Director  ...Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Christine Gill  Controller...  . ....... Anne Lindner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty ot Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies ot the admimstrat1on ot Mher mst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editonals represent the opmion ot the majority of the follow1ng Ed1!or-1n-Ch•el. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members ot the commumty and the tree express1on of varying op1nions on campus. through letters. is encouraged 
Visions in Medjugorje defy logic yet serve to inspire Christian faith 
Dear Editor: 
I'm writing in response to Michael J. Barbosa's letter "Logic, not visions should sup­port religion" (The Observer, Feb. 6). 
The most upsetting part of the article is when the writer asks why we can't have a "reasonable religion" based on common sense and not upon the elaims of a few "Eastern European adolescents." First, the Catholic religion is not based upon the apparitions in Medjugorje. The Christian faiths arn based upon the teachings of Christ. not appari­tions. The "Eastern European adolescents" haven't been made apostles or been ordained priests. Mary is appearing to give advice and encouragement, not to start her own cult. 
I can see why a critic may doubt the visions in Medjugorje, especially if they haven't been them. I mysf~lf believe in the vi­sions, for I have read and seen material that verify them. The eastern adolescents have all undergone psychiatric treat­ment, and have been proven to be in good mental health. Other scientific studies have been done to prove the visions' valid­ity. Therefore, not only my faith leaves me to believe in the ap­paritions of Mary, but modern technology. Yet, I'm sure 
there's still room for question­ing the apparitions. 
God's plan for us. That is what Being a true follower of 
faith is all about. We view Christ and believing in His common sense and logic teachings doesn't always seem 
through the eyes of the world. reasonable or logical. Is it rea­
If we are true followers of God, sonable that Jesus died and 
we must not follow the ways of then rose from the dead three 
the world that may seem logical days later? Is it reasonable 
and make more sense at times, that Mary become pregnant as 
but the ways of Jesus Christ. a virgin? Is it logical that I go In closing, I wonder who down to the Grotto and pray to 
doesn't question their faith. We some cement statue of Mary 
must have trust in God's teach­with a bunch of candles below 
ings and hope and pray to be her? Is it logical that Jesus, 
someday rewarded with a bet­God, and the Holy Spirit are all 
ter life. At Medjugorje, Mary is one person? trying to help us reach this Christian beliefs may not al­goal, and bring some people 
along with us.
ways seem logical. and at times seem paradoxical, but that i~ Tom A. Leahy because we are merely human, Carroll Hall and cannot fully understand Feb. 7, 1990 
Policy on investment contradicts morality 
Dear Editor: 
The University community should be grateful to the edi­tors of The Observer for pub­lishing the "official University policies on general investment and on South Africa invest­ment." (Feb. 12) I had never seen either statement in print before, but perhaps I haven't been payi!lg attention. 
I was fascinated by certain features of the General Invest­ment statement. It begins by stating the University['s com­mitment to an "investment pol­icy which reflects both its iden­tity as a Catholic university as well as its intention to promote the basic moral values of fair-
DOONESBURY 
ness, respeet for human life, poke fun at a corporation or an defense of human rights and individual who pledgedsocial justice ..." unswerving fealty to mother­Then, two paragraphs later, hood, apple pie, and all the the statement turns to the ap­homely virtues. Then, we would plication of these lofty princi­say that when it comes to busi­ples to the actual work of the ness, first, before all else, there trustees with the declaration is the fundamental moral re­that, "The starting point of the sponsibility to secure a satis­
formulation of an investment factory return on investment 
policy is the fundamental re­for the well being of those as­quirement that the trustees of sociated with the enterprise. the University have a moral and Now, what do we do, laugh or legal responsibility to ensure a 
cry? 
satisfactory return on invest­ments necessary for the sup­John J. Gilligan port and growth of the institu­Director tion as a whole." Institute for International 
Behold, the Almighty Bottom Peace Studies Line! Normally we would all Feb. 13, 1990 
I NOTICE 8URJW IN YOUR 
R£fDf<TA '3TATE:M£3NT fROM me 
PR1Jft'3'30R IAHJR&V!&WWAt/.-. TH/3. RESf.AROI. H& 541'5,"THe A55()()AT/ON5 BelUeEN 5W­efillftM ANI?175 /3.XP/3CTW C0N5CQf.B.I(£S ARE MIX&[), INS16N!fi­
CANTOR "-. 
A8'3CN[ II , ....:~-=--..... 

Traversing icy, slippery sidewalks poses 'serious health hazard' 
Dear Editor: querilla East and called the 
As a fifth year architecture Grounds/Maintenance office to student, I have wanted to write ask why they were not doing this letter since my freshmen anything about this. I was told year. Of course, like any other that since the temperature was apathetic Notre Dame student, supposed to rise to 42 degrees I have put it off. (which seemed very unlikely to 
I am referring to the inability me), they were waiting for the of the Notre Danre ice to melt (which seemed even Grounds/Maintenance staff to more unlikely). After inquiring effectively clear the roadways why they were not considering and sidewalks after a winter how dangerous it was in the storm. They will plow once and meantime, I did not receive a leave a one-half inch or more of satisfactory answer or a pro­ice on the sidewalks. Especially posed course of action. when the temperature starts to With the growing concern rise, these sidewalks become over safety on our cam pus extremely slippery. Anyone who which has received great re­has ever attempted to walk on sponse. I would like to sen this them without ice picks will issue promptly reviewed and agree that they become a seri­taken eare of before any seri­ous health hazard. ous accidents oceur. 
This afternoon, after almost Rosemarie Vizcarrondo killing myself while traversing Pasquerilla Fast //all campus, I returned to Pas-Feb. 18, 1990 
Success of International Festival reveals richness of diversity at NO 
Dear Editor: 
world," was a natural follow­On behalf of the International 
up to last year's "it's a small Student Organization, I would 
world" theme, and Saturday, in like to express my warmest 
the space of two hours, that thanks to all the people who 
world was brought here to participated in this year's In­
Notre Dame. ternational Festival. To all the 
We at the ISO hope that with 
performers, organizers and 
last year's and this year's im­helpers, your contribution was 
mensely successful Interna­a key element in the tremendous 
tional Festivals, people start to success that the show enjoyed. 
realize that, in spite of what is often said, diversity does exist 
This year's International Fes-within the Notre Dame and tival was performed to a Saint Mary's communities, and standing-room-only crowd at that the richness of eultures is Washington Hall, and was the present all around us. All that best, richest and most diverse is required from us is that we ever produced. It was, quoting open our eyes, and we will see The Observer, a "magnificent it. Maybe then will we finally display of talent" among the come to the realization of what Notre Dame/Saint Mary's stu-a small and wonderful world it 
dent bodies through songs, is. dances and beautiful costumes 
Ramzi Bualuan 

from around the world. The 
ISO Festival Chairman 

theme, "what a wonderful 
Feb. 6, 1990 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
IN 711& t./6HT CF 7HAT, 15N'T rrP05518U3 'THAT Sl!V-tsT£3CM 
CAU. 9a1/R/TY. 

'There are no problems we 
!'3N'TCAU9A/..IrTAU, 8UT 
H&MU~TBt; 
JU5T 

cannot solve together, and very
5/MP/,Y THe HAPPY SJ[)t;. 
Ft<OMOUTOF 

A5KIN6.
&FF&CT OFA STURIJY OiAR­
'3TATe." 

few that we can solve by 
ACTtR., IT5Ct-F TH& PRIJ{l()CT 
ourselves.'
fFUNAM81GUOIJS 
MORAL wuoma-t'f 
""" 

Lyndon B. Johnson 
Thursday, February 22, 1990 page 9 
Viewpoint 
Impudent squirrel population needs reduction 
Day in and day out, the 
the Georgetown Hoyas (just Viewpoint page (that is, when­With No Apologies what is a Hoya? Georgetown· ever I read it, which is never, people don't even know.) Why since nothing good ever ap­Glenn G. Fogarty not do them one better and pears here) seems to act as a temporarily use 'Notre Dame sounding board for every ama­I never knew existed before. (I Pacifist Squirrels?' Teams teur politico, hothead, or wind­imagine this squirrel was none could take the rodents on the 
bag around who can put two too intelligent.) This is not a road as mascots, and then syllables together. This in itself fun experience, kids, and I conveniently leave them in other might be okay if you hadn't wouldn't recommend going out parts of the country. Once we read the same exact thing in of your way to try it. (If you got rid of enough squirrels in Time the week before, and if did, though, you might make it this humane way, we could go the topic had some relevance to on Letterman's 'Stupid Pet back to the old 'mascot.' what occurs on this campus. A Tricks.') I do not enjoy being truly relevant Viewpoint column mistaken for a tree, even for a Proposal Number 3) There would focus on those members movable one at that. Naturally, must be some frustrated of our august academic com­even though this rodent quickly hunters around here, so whymunity who, while not sharing realized its mistake, it seems not have an old-fashioned in the journalistic limelight very imperative that this squirrel coon-hunt on campus, justoften, are worthy of notice in and its brethren should be rep­substituting the squirrel for the various ways. It is for this rea­rimanded for this shocking, raccoon. Non-Varsity Athletics son that I am writing about tragic incident, for my cup of could sponsor it. Imagine that. Notre Dame's squirrels who bitterness overfloweth. Right next to sheets for Water ­haven't received a lot of atten­(Actually, this didn't happen at Polo and Aerobics, "NVA Coon­tion on this page in the past. all, but it sounds good in an ar­Hunt! Sign up at the 
Now, I am not about to argue ticle on squirrels. No one ever among Notre Dame's vermin home would love it. Why own information desk." Now, some that there should be no squir­told me that the stuff that's clearly seems to be the result of just an ordinary squirrel when might say that such an event rels on this campus, for the printed in a paper of the sheer overpopulation; you can be the first on your might make the place a lot very fact that they are here Observer's quality has to be moreover, they just get in my block to have a licensed N.D. more dangerous, but it really shows that there might be some true, so don't quibble.) way, and on my nerves. To deal squirrel, and provide things couldn't be any more risky than good reason why they are here. If this wasn't enough, the with this pressing issue, I am which annoy me with a happy being murdered by an opening (You can Jearn this line of rea­other day, out of the pure about to propose some home. New ones could be sold door in O'Shag. (However, I soning in a philosophy course. goodness of my heart, I eminently practical suggestions for twenty dollars, and if you shouldn't give the people who Aren't you glad you go to col­stooped down with a bag of to eliminate some of our furry get bored with your squirrel, grind up that burrito meat any lege?) It's just that there seems potato chips in one hand and friends. the bookstore could buy it back new ideas.) to be too bloody many of them the loose chips in the other, to from you for fifty cents, re­this year, and they are begin­a panhandling squirrel. This selling it as a 'used' squirrel for Proposal Number 4) This is ning to exhibit some tendencies rodent, after spying both Proposal Number 1) It seems $19.99 (the one-cent discount the option I like best, and it's which might render them unfit hands, grabbed the bag and that the Notre Dame bookstore being very substantial by book­the most appropriate, given to be full-fledged participants ran away at breakneck speed. has a real penchant for making store standards.) The entice­that this is a Catholic in the sublime academic life of (Well, this actually happened to some truly hideous creations ment of new bookstore revenue university. Irish legend holds the community. Moreover, I've somebody else, but he said I that, nevertheless, manage to makes this a highly lucrative that the reason why there are received some pretty shoddy could use the story.) Devious sell just because they say 'Notre option. no snakes in Ireland is because treatment at the hands of these behavior like this clearly shows Dame' on them. We have Notre St. Patrick chased them all rodents in the past weeks, and I evidence that our squirrel Dame candy bars, earmuffs, Proposal Number 2) Word away. Now, I'm sure St. Pat don't like it one bit. Let me il­population js at odds with the magnets, teddy bears, and has it that the Peace Institute wouldn't mind too much getting 
lustrate. lofty moral and intellectual leprechaun everythings. If these doesn't like this 'Fighting' Irish rid of a few excess squirrels as 
One particularly dark Sunday values espoused by this fine things sell, then why wouldn't stuff anymore, so we may have well. Therefore, get your morning. as I was heading to university. (l dare say that people rush to buy an "Official to go searching for a new prayers going. an early Mass, an obese squir­there's even a chance that these Notre Dame Squirrel," complete mascot. Looking at other team rel jumped on me, obviously squirrels are flouting parietals with one of those hamster names, I find some true Glenn G. Fogarty is a junior 
mistaking me for some sort of as well, with utter impunity.) things that spin round and beauties, like the TCU Horned history/ALPA major and is a movable tree, something which This moral degeneration round. I'm sure the kids at Frogs, the Oregon Ducks, and regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Greed of CFA and ABC leads to NBC contract 
By Kevin Guilfoile 
When asked about the recent television deal between Notre Dame and NBC, Penn State coach Joe Paterno (the same Paterno who saw his school abandon the Eastern Independents for the Big Ten over Christmas) responded: "It's been a fun year. We got to see Notre ~)arne go from an academic institute to a banking institute." 
Reactions from schools 
across the country, and even 
from the pages of this newspa­
per, have had a similar ring. 
The dispute, they would tell us, 
is between green-with-greed 
Notre Dame and the poor, poor 
College Football Association, 
with the indigent American 
Broadcasting Company caught 
somewhere in the middle. 
Before we place blame for this tragedy solely under the Golden Dome, however, why don't we take a more objective look at the cast of characters. 
Notre Dame's detractors cry about its "unprecedented" backstabbing of the established CFA. Yet the precedent was set by the College Football Association in 1984 when it sued the NCAA over this very issue. In addition, it was that organization's bungling of its recent contract with ABC that forced Notre Dame's move in the first place. 
ABC, which already had the 
Big Ten and Pac Ten confer­
ences under contract, agreed to 
pay $210 million for the CFA 
contract, beginning in 1991. We 
do not have to be math majors 
to realize that a network which holds contracts with 84 school, all playing on the same day, is probably in over its head. The result of this logjam meant ABC would broadcast four or five games regionally throughout the country each Saturday. Most schools are accustomed to such coverage; but to expect assent from Notre Dame, which 
has alumni (both subway and the hard way) from coast-to­coast, is ludicrous. 
But enough explanation, let's look at the ramifications of Notre Dame's defection. The Irish are not blazing any new trails here; it is merely main­
' Notre Dame was able to pick from the nation's top players back when C, F and A were just letters in the alphabet.' 
taining the status quo. Last season, 12 of 13 Irish football games were shown live on na­tional television. Seven of them were broadcast by one of the three "free" networks. The NBC deal simply guarantees that six Irish home games, beginning in 1991, will be broadcast by NBC (as compared to the mere re­gional broadcasts that would be likely under the ABC con­tract). The CFA still holds the rights to Notre Dame's road games. 
And despite the smoke being blown by college coaches, there is no danger of all the major football schools striking similar deals and creating some sort of evil empire of football powers that dominate the airwaves from week to week. It is Notre Dame's unique appeal that made this deal possible. Other schools, including Miami, have tried to bait the networks and nobody is biting. 

Another criticism of the NBC contract has puzzled me. An Observer columnist last week claimed that the "parity of college football may be at stake" because of the exposure that Notre Dame will receive. Why was this not an issue last season? Or the season before? No matter who is doing the broadcasting, Notre Dame cannot be on TV more than it already is. 
Apparently, those who lose sleep over parity in college football are unaware of the vast amount of high school tal­ent throughout the fifty states, and that even with sophisti­cated recruiting tools, the pro­cess is still something of a crap shoot. Notre Dame was able to pick from the nation's top play­ers back when C, F and A were just letters in the alphabet. Unless the Irish are going to add another 70 or 80 scholar­ships each year, they are in no danger of cornering the market on talent. 
Finally, let's examine what the University stands to gain from the new contract. A largely overlooked aspect of the deal is the estimated $23 mil­lion (all the revenue that does not go to opposing schools) that will be used for student aid. This is money desperately needed at Notre Dame, whose benefactors have long realized that their names look better on the sides of dormitories than at the top of financial aid forms. 
The $100 million goal the ad­ministration has set for finan­cial aid will go a long way to­ward helping those students who have had to borrow them­selves into indentured servitude just to attend school here. 
And what does the CFA lose.? Even after the renegotiated contract, the 63 remaining members still have an incredibly lucrative deal with ABC, and rights to Notre Dame road games. Basically, they lose very little, unless of course, their primary motivation was to keep Notre Dame off TV. 
In fact, if there is a loser, I guess it is ABC. They will still broadcast the same number of Notre Dame games they had originally intended, but on other weeks they will have to compete against the Irish head to head for ratings. Their losses, however, are mostly the result of poor business sense and misinformation from the CFA. 
If we are still bent out of shape over the way Notre Dame conducted itself, we might claim the administration should have let its intentions be known earlier, but we shouldn't be shocked or surprised. Notre Dame's financial dealings have always been closely-guarded secrets and as the business world is governed, thankfully, by the law of Adam Smith and not the chivalry of Camelot. Notre Dame Was under no real obligation to pass around a press release until the deal was done. Furthermore, Fr. Beauchamp indicated Notre Dame's reservations concerning the contract in a letter to the CFA in October, and it was not until after that time that the athletic department began talks with NBC. 
If we still insist on ferreting out greed in this picture, how about starting with ABC? The network took a bath last sea­son when its Big Ten-Pac Ten schedule went up against CFA games, so it came up with the money to keep Saturday foot­ball off the other networks. ABC was never interested in in­creasing the exposure of College Football, but in de­creasing it for its own pur­poses. 
And what about the CFA? It had offers from CBS and NBC that would have maintained na­tional exposure for college football, but it sold out to ABC for more money. Also, let's not forget that the CFA's Executive Director Chuck Neinas, in his haste to close a $300 million deal, somehow forgot to tell the network that Notre Dame and Miami had not yet agreed to the contract. 
If the dollar is now calling the shots in the athletic depart­ment, then where are the Gatorade banners in the Notre Dame Stadium? Where is the Reebok Diamond Vision in the JACC? Why were the Irish the only bowl team not wearing sponsorship patches the last two New Years? 
It's not because those things were never offered. 
Kevin Guilfoile is a senior American Studies major. 
Accent
page 10 Thursday, February 22, 1990 
GLASNOST NO students from Eastern Europe and Soviet Union discuss reforms 
JOHN FISCHER 
accent writer 
Most of the media attention focused on the revolutionary changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union in the past months have dealt exclusively with politics, with the diplomats and government officials who are granting unheard-of free­doms to their citizens. 
In this flurry of action, the opinions and emotions of the eitizens themselves cannot be overlooked. The feelings of people in the Eastern European countries are as diverse as their cultures. 
Sergei Basarab, Kaja Szwykowska, and Katalin Fabian are natives of the Soviet Union. Poland, and Hungary. respectively. They, along with several others, are residents of the Peace House on Notre Dame's campus. The house is a residence for foreign graduate students who are in the Peace Studies curriculum. Upon graduation, several graduates return to their nations to help put into practice what they have learned. 
Despite studying here in the United States for most of the year, Basarab, Fabian, and Szwykowska have been at home recently enough to wit­ness firsthand the effects of the changes and have been in con­stant contact with their friends and families at home. The publics' reactions to the changes vary greatly among the nations. 
Poland, for instance, does not adhere to the usual perception that Americans have of a typi­cal communist country. The Solidarity movement, founded in 1981, predates the more re­cent changes by eight years. 
The Polish people basically opposed the corruption of the Communist government and their "terrible" economic poli­cies. During the years of mar­tial law. the undercurrent of the Polish opposition was the desire to control their own destinies or to be "masters of the house" as Szwykowska put it. 
The opposition work from the years 1981-89 was extremely difficult. "We rose occasionally during eight years of grey, 

hard. and hopeless under­
ground work," said 
Szwykowska. 

Finally. in 1989, after several years of pressure from the Polish people. the Communist government allowed opposition from the Solidarity movement in the elections. These elections, in which Solidarity won 99 of 100 Senate seats, differed immensely from past elections. 
In former elections, Szwykowska was associated with an independent, unofficial election monitoring group. Her observations indicated that a mere 6-16% of Poles voted, far from a majority vote for the Communists, as opposed to the Communist claim that 99.9% of Poles voted. 
The most recent election, however, was greeted in Poland with huge celebration. "People were jumping, hugging, and smiling in public when Solidarity won," says Szwykowska. She added that that type of display of emotion had never happened before in her lifetime. In describing the dedication of the Polish people to the Solidarity movement and greater freedom, she stated, "The Polish people always need a great idea in order to mobi­lize and overcome." 
The hope of change in Hungary for much of the 1980s came only in the form of unreli­able rumors of Solidarity in Poland. Then, in 1989, the wave of change hit Hungary it­self. The increasing freedom of Hungarians to determine their future brought on a "feeling of incredible hope-no one ever thought it would happen," ac­cording to Katalin Fabian. 
The more impressive changes she perceived in the attitudes of family and friends are their trust towards one another, lack of fear, and a "new conscious­ness." To define this last change, Fabian added that the Hungarian people are glad to be finally rid of the environ­ment that ran "against na­ture,"the environment of Communist rule. 
The events in the Soviet Union are of a different nature than in the other countries, whose quest for freedom was also in part a quest against Soviet influence in their nations. As the most dominant Communist force in the world, the Soviet Union's Communist Party has been the slowest to loosen its grip on power. This loosing finally occurred in early February as a much-publicized event. 
Sergei Basarab is skeptical of how big an impact this in­creased freedom of choice will have on the Soviet people. Through decades of training and educational propaganda, Basarab says that Soviet citi­zens have forgotten how to talk and act freely, and how to ex­press their own opinions and views. 
Basarab notes, however, that his observations can only be applied to his particular region, the Ukraine. He says that con­trary to the American percep­tion, the Soviet Union is not one huge, unified "bear." Rather, it is a collection of several smaller, unrelated republics of differing nationalities. 
Basarab feels that the struc­ture of the Soviet Union has ex­isted long enough that regard­less of what happens, the cen­tral government will still be in charge of the broader political matters and the military. The governments of each individual region, then, will control sepa­rately the economic and social aspects of their own region. Basarab predicts that this ideal setup will result in a looser confederation of nations than what now exists. 
Szwykowska, Fabian, and Bas.arab were in accordance in most aspects when addressing the next challenge that all of Europe must face, the inevitable reunification of East and West Germany. They all concurred that this reunifica­tion must be a peaceful transi­tion, and that a Central Europe free of weapons must start with Germany. 
Szwykowska, especially, is adamant about this because of the memories of Germany at­tempting to expand its borders into Poland during World War I and II. The horror of that era and of the idea of another uni­fied Germany still haunts the minds of the Polish people. All feel that military presence in Germany would be detrimental, even though German expansion through military means seems unlikely. 


Noting that it is difficult to predict how Germany will be­have, Basarab recommended that loose ends dating from the end of World War II be read­dressed and resolved. Szwykowska stated that one of these considerations involved the treaties signed at the end of the World War II. All treaties were negotiated with either West or East Germany; there­fore, when these countries unite to form Germany, the treaties will be worthless. It is Szwykowska's concern that leaving these types of details not addressP.d will lP.ad to fu­ture problems. 
As for the futures of their own nations, Szwykowska and Fabian are in agreement. They have incredible hope for eco­nomic recovery and greater freedom, but are fearful of possible disaster. As Szwykowska states, "If the new economic policies do not work, I would prefer not to think about it." 
Basarab sees two different objectives in the Soviet peoples' struggle for greater freedom. The intellectuals are seeking broader political reforms, while the average citizen's main con­cern is food. Both groups have differing opinions on how to achieve these objectives. Basarab expresses hope that the needs of both groups be provided, but is unsure how this can be accomplished. 


Thursday, February 22, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Knicks' Strickland traded to Spurs 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The New York Knicks granted Rod Strickland his wish Wednesday when they traded the second-year guard to the San Antonio Spurs for veteran guard Maurice Cheeks. 
Strickland had expressed un­happiness with his role as a backup to Mark Jackson earlier this season and asked to be traded. He also showed up an hour late to practice on Monday. 
"Maurice Cheeks is a proven winner. He has a (championship) ring which is what we are trying bring here," Knicks general manager AI Bianchi said. "This team needs leadership, maturity and stabil­ity and that's what Maurice brings. He's an old head who knows how to play the game." 
Strickland, who left DePaul after his junior season and was the Knicks' top pick in the 1988 draft, averaged 8.2 points and 
4.3 assists while playing 20 minutes per game. 
Cheeks, 33, was traded from Philadelphia to San Antonio last summer after spending his entire 11-year NBA career with the Philadelphia 76ers. He av­eraged 10.9 points and six as­sists in 35 minutes per game with the .Spurs. In his 11 sea­sons with the 76ers, Cheeks av­eraged 12.2 points and 7.3 as­sists in 853 games and leads active players in steals. 

Cheeks is expected to back up Jackson while Strickland likely will assume the starting point 
guard role_ with the  second­ 
place Spurs.  
"It is great for  us  that  we  

were able to get a young player who has a terrific chance to be a great point guard," Spurs coach Larry Brown said. "But we hate giving up Maurice be­cause we owe a lot to him for our success this year. It was just something we felt we had to do." 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in the Great Hall of O'Shag. The fee is $5. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball signups and registration will be Monday, March 26, 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room at LaFortune. A SMC location and time for that date to be announced. 
New rugby players will meet at 5:30 p.m. tonight in 117 Haggar. 
Notre Dame will play Georgia Tech on Saturday in men's basketball. Some tickets had listed the game as Sunday. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Observer in Lafortune. The Observer does not guarantee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at_the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces 
Classifieds 
I OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 SKIS Need 4 Mizzou Tix-GAorSTU Erin Still More Mock Trial Quotes: mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII $$$$$Call 277-7260$$$$$$ You're the best! And thanks for the 10. You're a gentleman & a 
NOTICES 
Countries,AII1ields. Free info. Write OLIN870'S best birthday! I hope I can return scholar. 
IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del TYROLIA BINDINGS Mom & Dad are coming & they the favor the 9th! 9. The drinks are in the toilet. 287-4082 TYPING AVAILABLE 
Mar, CA 92625. $150 want tix to Missouri & G Tech -Theresa 8. I'm bleeding to death through X4980 Call Jeff X3555 my eyes. MAIL BOXES ETC. 
ATIENTION-EARN MONEY 7. That's a real knee snapper. Shipping, Copies, Cards. 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/year Kenwood 40-Watt receiver 6. You grow up all your life being a 
RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has
income potential. Details. (1) 602· for sale. $140 or B.O. safe person & you just don't want Laser Quality For rooms for Graduation weekend. 
838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 277-9905 ask for John. HELP I! to be not safe.
Papers, Reports, Resumes, Etc. 
Minimum stay 2 nights with $100
4 MISSOURI TICKETS 5. Cheese factor, big time.
277-MAIL deposit per room. Send letter to
ND SPORTS PICTURES WANTED Realistic AM/FM stereo rcvr. NEEDED 277-9750 4. Don't worry. Megan will eat 
3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN
Will pay good money for 65 watts/channeL Must sell-$200 them. 
46514 or Call219-262-1581.
Football, Basketball photos or best offer. Call 271-5686, ask FOR SALE: Spring Break Plane 3. My broccoli is decidedly frigid. call Tom@ 2185 forGeoff. · ticket to NEW YORK CITY 2. How bowling sharp are we? Guaranteed Lowest Prices! 
SPRING BREAK IN THE SUN 
call: ALIX x4845 1. I suck forever. Ride Needed to Ohio St. this NEG 54" projection TV·cancun--$424 
weeko~nd 2/23-2125. Will pay PERFECT FOR DORMS OH BOY I REALLY NEED
South Padre--$169 CLUB 23 'Bahamas--$469 $$$. Mark x-1416 Call ND Dept. of Comm. & Theatre TICKETS FOR THE MISSOURI 239-7054 GAME--CALL X1128. 
**** 

'(Airfare included) Offering our specialty Call Ted x3276 MIDDLE EAST CUISINE 
Ski FREE
ATIENTION! ATIENTION! 1982 Volkswagen Rabbit 4 SALE: 1 WAY AIR TICKET TO Open for dinner 5 -11 pmAnyone interested in playing AD&D 4 door, air cond; $600 PHX ON 219. BEST OFFER­Monday to Saturday 
Friday nites!
please contact Bob at Call Chris @1690 X11651AN.
For a hot tip on where x1797
to find a good time THE CLUB 23 
$45 ~~~'A'ifa
TYPEWRITER-$75; SHORT­NEED 4 G. Tech and
Call647-0900 ext 1740 
Ill IJOUIW ul 20 or mnrc.
COUNSELOR WAVE RADI0-$60; 287-2834 4 Missou GA's and Women's Care Center, pro-life 2 Missou studs. Call Featuring up & coming bands. 
St. Mary's Campus Events 
m.ur.,.. .. ~ur ­
,....wid>
Hotline 
'fO: man:. Moool 1/il r..
pregnancy help center looking for 1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000 Matt at x2265. Don't miss our evening 
rcs<rvolion-...:. CRISTAL
full-time counselor to do loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy specials. 
available. C.U Rondy ~N 
at 1-800-321-46.37 N or 1-616-378-2911.
pregnancy testing, support Bumper/Hitch. $5,800 or B/0. Need TODD RUN OGREN tix for 234-3541 'MO'
LOST/FOUND counseling, social service and 271-8016. Vic Theatre, Chicago · 3/2 or 3/3. medical referrals to offer positive Kevin x1160 ADOPTION alternatives to abortion for Plane tx to Denver
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! 
girls/women facing unplanned perfect for Spring Break! Need TODD RUNDGREN tix for Physician and wife, happily 
*****
An antique ring with a 
pregnancies. BA or equivalent leave Sat 311 0 return Vic Theatre, Chicago-3/2 or 3/3. married for ten years, would dearly 
green square stone; lost on Feb. 
experience required. Salary and Sat 3117 GOOD PRICE Kevin x1160 love to adopt a baby. We have a
14 possibly in south dining hall. 
benefits commensurate with call #4825 comfortable home to share and
Great sentimental value. 
experience. Will train. Send most importantly lots of love, THE PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES REWARD! 
resume to: wee FT. WALTON BEACH, FLORIDA patience and understanding. We MC CORMICK'S FEB 24Call Deb at x3829 
417 N. St. Louis St. One Way Ticket. Leaves SB on live on 20 rolling acres with a large tO PM-?
PERSONALS

South Bend, IN 46617 3/8,$55. Call John X1812 lawn, pond and woods. We will BRING DEODERANTLOST: BROWN LEATHER 
Attn: Jeanne Thelen provide your child with the best 
WALLET WIND ID AND NY 
-------------------------------------HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & educational opportunities. We will 
LICENSE. IF FOUND PLEASE HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG pay medical and legal expenses. 
CALL LISA X1268. IrS 3 WEEKS 
SUMMER JOBS 

nCKETS 
TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE Please call collect for a recorded HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
TO MY 21ST 11!!!!!!1! 
COUNSELORS-BOYS CAMP, 
WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & message. (219) 625-4205. MARK!

W.MASS.IGIRLS CAMP, MAINE. TOP 
CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. 

Thanx for always being there for 
SALARY, AMIBO/lAUNORY, TRAVEL

FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday 
Help! I need 2 student tickets and Inn on Rt. 31 during 
SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343-READ EXODUS 22:18 me. You are a fantastic friend. 
ALLOWANCE. MUST LOVE KIDS AND 

oneGA for the Georgia Tech 8445. 
READ EXODUS 22:18 Love always,
HAVE SKILLIN ONE OF THE 

JPW. call John X1583 to game. Please call Jeanne at 2600. 
READ EXODUS 22:18 Mol
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY 

identify 
? ? NEED TO MAKE COPIES ? ? BASKETBALL,BICYCLING. 
ARTS&CRAFTS, BASEBALL. 

4 Missouri & Georgia Tech tixs for THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune'LOST' 
To the girl in the red sweater at the 
CHEEALEAOING, DANCE, DRAMA. 

sale.272-6306 61t Copies & open on weekends I NEED A RIDE TO EASTERN DePaul game on Tues., from theRed wire-rimmed glasses in a gray 
DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF case between PW and Haggar 
PENNSILVANIA FOR 3·10 BREAK guy in the gray T -shirt, if you're 
GUITAR, GYMNASTICS. HOCKEY. 

WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! Grand OpeningMon. If found please call x2963. 
steve-1723 interested, respond here.
HORSEBACK, KARATE LACRLSSE. 

WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN Feb. 23 -at Grace Hall 
NATURE. NURSES. PHOTOGRAPHY. 

LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK The COFFEEHOUSE 
PIANO, RADIO, ROCKETRY, ROPES.

LOST WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND
SAILBOAROING SAILING, SCUBA, 

Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ SUNSHINE: I hope you're not I need 3 tickets for the 
SOCCER, TENNIS, TRACK, W.S 1.. 

CHARITY BALL MEETING WATERSKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD.
Vision case. Please call x2967 if PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 feeling quite as cloudy now & Missouri game on March 3 Thurs. 7pm Sorin Rm LaFortune.
found. 
STOP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW ON 
MARY, in all seriousness, that $3 All those interested in the 1990 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RO FROM 

I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE has turned you into one Call me at 283-2785 committee are welcome.
Found: Men's ring outside 
11 :OOAM-6:00PM IN LAFORTUNE 

NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME 
FABULOUS BABE!! I

South Dining Hall. Call David 
STUDENT UNION, DOOLEY ROOM 1#37 

ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT x.3233 
502-582-1920. 
Louise-n-Pineapple Man, hmm 

SPRING BREAK HELP!!II Desperately Need 4 Missouri tickets for big bro! 
NEED GEORGIA TECH TIX, Do you wants lots of money? Sell 
FOR SALE DAYTONA PLEASE CALL!!! Ann 4x5087Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. 
ST. & GA. CALL JOANIE x3851 me your Georgia Tech tickets and 

BIG BUCKS INVOLVED!!! 
Dark blue, with red pinstripe. If you I'll give you enough to surround $139 rm. only $229 w. trans.
don't want me to go to a 2nd I need two tix for the Missouri yourself with booze, babes and high quality accommadations interview in my boxers, call Tom at 
game. Call Tim Thompson at 277-bashes. TOP DOLLAR!!! John 
JEFF "BONUS" JANICIK234-9728. Reward 
5398. x3584
FOR RENT 

call Todd t-800-265-1799 The golden one is here! 
HAPPY 22nd B·DAY on the $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Goober. oh dear Goober, 
2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM

A PAIR OF WOMEN'S GLOVES 
CLUE #3 22nd! Love, kaj
APTS. AVALIABLE 

I DESPERATELY NEED How shall I count the ways? 
Found on the walkway near 
LESS THAN 1 MILE 

3 MISSOURI TIX Too many, for you've She has a passion for North Dining hall on Sat.Jrday, 
CALL FRANK (283) · 4334 surpassed a young age. frozen yogurt & aerobics .......
FROM NOTRE DAME

February 17, in the morning. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ A double chin & gray hair 
LEEThey look like they belong 
FEATURES INCLUDE: 
shall now lead your days; 

Best wishes at the Bouts! You'll Security systems, to somebody's mother from 
Need 4 Missouri GA's. Call Robin x So too, shall legal beer 
always be looking good to usl Love they are yours. Call JPW. If you can describe them, 
4011. consumption make no delay, Need a ride to St. Louis on your SMC fan club-joy, amy, anne,
basements, rear yards, 

For if abused, Julio you shall 3/30!!! Call Julie x3141 jeni, julie & mo. 
x3311. 
washer & dryer, new 

GEORGIA TECH! GEORGIA out-weigh. TECH! Nevertheless, I hope your day 
construction, good 

JPW dinner table #37-­
I need tickets like you wouldn't is swelL DESPARA TEL Y SEEKING found roll of film, call Anne 
neighborhood,dishwasher 

believe. Please sell me yours (Hey now, this poem rhymed 
FRESHMAN FORMAL DATE-­KIM my life is over, Jimmy is Maxll! 
#2783 before my rich alum brother boils like hell!) PLEASE CALL MIKE AT my skin in oiL TOP DOLLAR!!! John HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 277-9609 x3584 luv, Your Idol 
YEAR. 

VIC Waima-be: if you're a real Rides needed to PittsburghFURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 need 3 GA tix for Georgia Tech. ----PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES----­man...identify yourselfl4766 this weekend. Katie 284-4379 
WANTED 
BDRM, WID. CLOSE TO NO. 

call x1512 at McCormick's 440 WANTS YOU!!!! Wendy 284-4393. 
COMPETITIVE RENT. 1·264· Saturday, Feb. 24
Apple Computer is now accepting 
6010. ----PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES-----Ride the Windy City Shuttle 
applications for the campus 
Need Mizzou tix. Call Pat x $10.00 at the Information Desk Plane Ticket to LA -Leave:position of student representative. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 233-6582 SCOTI WALKER... ­JUSTDOIT!!I Thurs. 3/8, Return Mon. 3/20 Responsibilities include marketing 
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Get OUT of MY section! 
$100-Must be female! Call Bethand some technical. 
I need sorne Georgia Tech tickets 28<4-5209Prefer sophomores and juniors. 
for my little brothers ..Please call To my roommates, sectionmates, Attention: an emergency board BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Please send resume to: 
219-291-7153 Kelly at '4985 and the guys from Zahm: ~forMA will be held on Thanks for a great birthday! Fridaf. Altendenee required.
Apple Computer 
Dad wants to see a good b-ball Theresa2 and 4 bedrm. furnished6133 N. River Road 
team; Missouri! He's willing to pay PLEASE, PLEASE offer me your--­Sheilah, SPLATT1!1!!!1111
houses; 90-91 year. GreatRosemont, tL eoG1~ mucho to those who will seii2GA's 

cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 Georgia Tech tix! 
Attn: Bill Duff 
and 2st tix. Call Mike @3646 call Paula x4633 
or 288-5653 hiag 




Nets beat Timberwolves to snap 14-game losing streak 
EAST HUTIIERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Lllster Conner's basket at the buzzer and subsequent free throw Wednesday night gave the New Jersey Nets a 95­93 victory over Minnesota 11nd snapped their 14-game losing streak, longest in the NBA this season. 
With the Timberwolves lead­ing 93-92, Conner took an in­bounds pass with six seconds left, drove the length of the court and hit an off-balance 10-footer as the buzzer sounded. He was fouled on the play by Minnesota guard Pooh Richardson and sank the free throw as New Jersey won for the first time since Jan. 17. 
Conner scored 13 of his 1 7 points in the second half, while Purvis Short led the Nets with 25 points. Tony Campbell scored 26 
I points and Sam Mitchell 23 for 
I the expansion Timberwolves, 
I 
I I 
I Missouri hangs on to 
I 
I win, Duke fall to Pack
I 
I 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -Doug

I 
I Smith scored 34 points and I Nathan Buntin and Travis Ford I hit high-pressure free throws in I the final seconds as top-ranked
I 
Missouri held off Iowa State
I 
89-85 Wednesday night. 
I 
Missouri, which regained the

I 
No. 1 spot this week, spent the
I 
night trying to put away the
I 
Cyclones, who lost their seventh 
I I 
straight Big Eight game. I Iowa State's Terry Woods hit I a 3-pointer to trim Missouri's I lead to 82-79 with 1:49 left, but I Anthony Peeler hit a free throw 
I 
and with 1:29 remaining and 
I 
Buntin made two for an 85-79
I 
lead.
I 
With 50 seconds left, Doug

I 
Collins intercepted Buntin's bad
I 
pass and drove in for a layup to
I 
I pull Iowa State to 85-83. But I Ford, the Big Eight's leading ~ free throw shooter, canned I both ends of a one-and-one at I the with 42 seconds left. 
~ 
N. Carolina St. 76, Duke 71
I 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Rodney

I 
~ Monroe scored 19 of his 22 
points in the second half and I helped North Carolina State I rally for a 7 6-71 victory over I third -ranked Duke Wednesday I night, overshadowing a 32­
I 
I 
point performance by Alaa
I 
'L Abdelnabv.
I 
Monroe struggled with a 1­for-10 effort in the first half
~ 
and finished at 6-for-21, but it
I 
I 
was his free-throw shooting that offset Abdelnaby's inside play and handed Duke its fourth straight loss in Raleigh. 
! 
Abdelnaby, who missed two of his 13 attempts, hit a pair of free throws with 1:35 left to 
cap his career-high game as well as topping a run in which he scored 15 of Duke's last 17 points. 
Oklahoma 88, Nebraska 66 
LINCOLN, Neb. -Skeeter Henry scored Oklahoma's last nine points of the first half and first four of the second as the lOth-ranked Sooners shook off Nebraska and rolled to an 88­66 victory Wednesday night in the Big Eight. 
Hitting 14 of its first 18 'Shots, Nebraska opened a 30­25 lead with eight minutes re­maining in the first half. But Oklahoma, making it nine straight 20-victory seasons, came back to lead 33-32 three minutes later. 
After another Nebraska bas­ket, Henry started his run, outscoring the Cornhuskers 13­4. 
who saw a team-record four­game winning streak snapped. Minnesota got back in the game with 10-0, 10-0 and 8-0 spurs after trailing 75-57 late in the third quarter. 
Pistons 140, Magic 109 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Joe Dumars had 22 points and led six Detroit scorers in double figures as the Pistons crushed Orlando for their league-best 13th straight victory. 
Detroit, which last lost on Jan. 21 in a nationally televised game against the Los Angeles Lakers, eclipsed the 12 consec­utive victories by the Philadelphia 76ers, a winning streak that the Pistons matched Monday night with a victory over the Miami Heat. 
Reserve guard Morlon Wiley led all Orlando scorers with 20 points. Jerry Reynolds had 16 
No. 12 LSU 75, Alabama 69 
BATON ROUGE, La. -Chris Jackson's scoring binge ended, but Shaquille O'Neal had 18 points, 14 rebounds and five blocked shots Wednesday night to lead 12th-ranked Louisiana 
State to  a  75-69 victory  over  
Alabama.  
Jackson  had  scored  146  

points over the past three games and was averaging 29 points for the season. He had 12 points in the first half Wednesday night, then didn't score again until the final 14 seconds, when he hit two free throws and broke away for a layup on an Alabama turnover. 
Illinois 90, Purdue 78 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -Kendall Gill scored 21 points as No. 19 Illinois used free throws to hold off repeated second-half nllies by No. 9 Purdue for a 90-78 victory Wednesday night in the Big Ten. 
The Illini (19-6, 9-6) hit 19 straight free throws in the sec­ond half and 31 of 38 for the game. 
Marcus Liberty scored 20 points, Stephen Bardo 18 and Andy Kaufmann 13 for Illinois. 
Purdue (19-5, 11-3) was led by 250-pound center Stephen Scheffler with 20 points. 

FOR BOYS 5 GLEN LANE 
points for the Magic, who lost 
their fourth straight. 
Mark Aguirre scored 21 points off the bench while re­serve forward John Salley had a career-high eight blocked shots. James Edwards had 19 points and Isiah Thomas 18 points and 13 assists for the Pistons. 
Cavs 121, Trail Blazers 109 
RICHFIELD, Ohio -Rookie Chucky Brown scored 15 of his 24 points in the first half as Cleveland built a 16-point lead on the way to an easy win over Portland. 
The Cavaliers shot 61 percent from the floor in the first half and led 64-48 at halftime. They scored the first six points of the second half, expanding the lead to 22, and Portland got no closer than 12 after that. 
The Trail Blazers, who got 20 

ints each from Jerome closer than eight again. points and 13 assists. 
·• 

APPI!oto Is the Big Ten still up in the air? Who knows after 19th-ranked Illinois upset ninth-ranked Purdue 90-78 Wednesday night. The lllini's Kendall Gill tossed in 21 points to lead the scalping of the Big Ten leader. The 
Kersey and Kevin Duckworth, lost for only the fourth time in the last 17 games. 
Mark Price scored 24 points for Cleveland, including three 3­pointers. 
Pacers 123, Hawks 96 INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's 
Reggie  Miller  scored  seven  
points  in  the  opening  three  
minutes  and  Atlanta  went  

nearly five minutes before making its first field goal. 
Indiana, which matched its victory total for all of last sea­son with its 28th triumph, scored the game's first seven points while Atlanta missed its first seven shots. 
Atlanta trailed 13-3 when John Battle made Hawks' first field goal with 7:12 left in the first period. Atlanta never drew 
SuperSonics 92, Heat 85 
MIAMI -Nate McMillan hit a 3-point shot with 1:25 to play, stopping a Miami rally and lift­ing Seattle to its seventh victory in eight road games. 
Trailing 75-62 after three quarters, Miami scored the first nine points of the fourth period to start a 12-3 spurt featuring five points each by Sherman Douglas and Glen Rice. The rally made it 77-74 with 8:20 left in the game. 
The Heat cut the margin to two points twice thereafter, the final time when Kevin Edwards' layup made it 87-85 at the 2:50 mark. McMillan's 3-pointer made it 90-85. 
Dana Barros scored 18 points for Seattle, which is now 9-18 on the road over a 2-17 start. The Heat were paced by Rice and Tellis Frank with 17 each, while Douglas had 15 

MAMARONECH, N.Y. 10543 DUXBURY,MA.02332 914-381-5983 COUNSELORS 617-934-6536 
WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONG SKILLS AND ABILITY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Computer 
Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General Counselors, 
Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneering, 
Riding, Rocketry, Ropes Course, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, 
Support Staff, Swimming, Tennis, Track, Volleyball, Waterskiing, 
Weight Training, Windsurfing, Woodworking, Yearbook. 
FULL EIGHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: 
TOMORROW FROM 11:00AM-4:00PM LA FORTUNE STUDENT UNION -DOOLEY ROOM (#37) 
Boilermakers were one-game ahead of Michigan State prior to the contest. 
S 0 M M E R S 
~heck Us Out! G R A P H I C S 
./ Rolodex Cards ./ Business Cards .J Roll Labels .,J Rosters .,J Envelopes J Menus.J Manuals .J Letterheads .J Invoices 
..J Booklets ..J Resumes .J Registration Forms ..J Folders 
.,/Continuous. Forms .j Newsletters ./Statements '1/ Membership Cards 
J Book Markers J Invitations -.1 Flyers -.1 Contracts 
52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219)277-6991 
STAFFING NOW FOR THE 1990 SUMMER SEASON 
Camp Vega 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR 
FOR GIRLS P.O. BOX 1771

SUMMER 
6¢ copies 
" Legal Briefs .,J Sales Literature .J Brochures 


Thursday, February 22, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Swimmers prepare for Easterns 
By JANICE ARCHER but we have had an excellent swimmers. Her best event, Sports Writer season, and I think we can the 200-yard breaststroke, do well." will be on her schedule this The Notre Dame women's The two-week rest that the weekend. Wood has also swim teams will compete in team has been granted gives qualified for the NCAA meet a three-day championship them a much needed rest in this event. She will also meet in Baltimore, Md. be­from a strenuous schedule compete in the 200 ginning today. In last year's that had them competing in individual medley and the 
Eastern Intercollegiate ten meets in a month's time. 100 breaststroke in Championships, the Irish fin­They have been preparing Maryland.ished fifth, and with an im­for the Easterns with the Another leading swimmer 
proved squad, hope to place luxury of a two week hiatus. is freshman Christy Van higher in the rankings this "We spent time polishing Patten, who broke the MCC year. our skills, sharpening our records in both the 50-and 
"We want to move up," speed and preparing from 100-yard freestyle events. Irish head coach Tim Welsh the neck up, as well as from She will lead Notre Dame said. "We have had a good the neck down. We will be this weekend in these two season, and I hope we can ready and excited for our races. 
swim the way we are ca­last meets," said Welsh. The Irish face some diffi­pable. The spirit and morale Freshman Tanya Williams cult competition in the of this team has been very will help lead the Irish in Easterns. West Virginia will high, so I am expecting us to Baltimore. She will be be defending their title from do well." swimming in her premiere last year's championships,
The women's squad has events-the 200 individual swimming against strong not swam competitively since medley, 400 individual med­programs from Maryland­Feb. 10, when they took the ley and the 200 butterfly. Baltimore County and Midwestern Collegiate Early in the season, she LaSalle. Conference title with ease. qualified to swim these three 
"Our women swam ex­events in the NCAA meet, "The MCC Championships 
tremely well in the MCC which will be held March 15-were an excellent indicator 
meet," Welsh said. "We just 17 in Austin, Texas. of what is to come," said 
hope we can continue in the Becky Wood, a junior, will Welsh. "We swam very fast, 
Easterns. There will be sev­also compete as one of and there is more speed 
eral very good teams there, Notre Dame's top where that came from." 
Pizza Hut·Delivers on CampusFast, Hot and Free! 

Durrn~ Ldb Da.x 13ea~r l2eveal5 J,,s Ftt1cf,,~: l-ll.lflt3tr== trJass Co,s v rn p f,oY)/ 
©1 C)qG Pizza Hut, hK. 
FAST FREE DELIVERY limited De&very Area 

Call232·2499 

r --~ M;di;.-----:--~~ 6-P;kPePsiZo~--i : # Cheese Pizza 1 I 99( 1
1

$ $699 or 2 $999 ~ . .. 1
<jJ lor on~ ~ with the purchase of any Patrs ~ . E I or Large Pizza at regular price. I
I 
Toppings xtro VAUD ON DEUVEIY OWIRYOUI Available an Pan, Hand-Tossed Traditional or Thin ' NCrispy"Piua I Offer expires Md 11, 1990 II VALID ON DELIVERY OR CARRYOUT Please mention coupon when ordering. One loupon Jll!' party I
• M h 11 1990 I per ¥isil at portilipating Pizzo Hut® restaurant. Hot valid m
I 0Her Exptres arc ' . . !ombinatian with any either Pizzo Hut® oiler. Poi~~ atrademark 1'\oo,. -11oo ,..,.. -'"" or4trfot. Oro<Ollpon pttpartypttvadal ~ 1 '"-"''"Pepsi-(o lim~ed"""'"-'""""''debvery oreo. Our driven 10rry no more I..:J I 
I 
I portoopahog 1'\na Hul" rtllawlllh. Mol val~~ ....,,nat.., w11h any ather ....-...._ Ill! n1~ ~na Hul" offw <ll> dt!ignat• oogi<ltrtc! tradtmlrb all'ma Hut, In<. l.inittc! P-~ I !han 520'00 ·1/201 1osh redemplioo value. 1u~ 1 o~ttovtty ..... Our driver><...., .. """ tt.an szo.oo. 1/lOc <lllh rtdompiion ::flut. I ©1990 ~zzi, Hu! 1rx. 75 -nut. .au.. 01!!0 1'\na Hut, in<. 45/20 ( I· 232-2499 • ~~ ~
..

~-----------J____________ 
FLORIDA 

Minnesota, Orlando 18 Pittsburgh, Bradenton 
Houston, Kissimmee 19 Chicago White Sox, Sarasota 
Kansas City, Haines City 20 Texas, Port Charlotte 
Boston, Winter Haven Baltimore, Miami 
Detroit, Lakeland 22 N.Y. Yankees, Fort Lauderdale 
Cincinnati, Plant City 23 Atlanta, W. Palm Beach 
Toronto, Dunedin 24 Montreal, W. Palm Beach 
Philadelphia, Clearwater 25 N. Y. Mets, Port St. Lucie 
St. Louis, St. Petersburg 26 Los Angeles, Vero Beach 
AP 

Baseball players 'outraged' by owners' latest proposals 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball He said the owners' approach players union chief Donald was: "Let's turn the clock back Fehr said Wednesday that new if we can find a way to do it." proposals by the owners Fehr said, "The owners are "provoked outrage" from the not intent and have never in­players association. tended on making an agree­
Fehr, who set a Thursday ment. This is the kind of ap­deadline for breaking off the proach which causes players talks, said management's latest (to think) why are we here." proposal was to eliminate free "My first thought was if agent and multiyear contracts someone wants to make our de­from consideration in salary cision process easier that's a arbitration. way to do it," Fehr said in re­
The large deals signed by free ferring to how little the union agents this winter -as much thought of the new proposals. as $15 million over four years He said management would -have fueled the rising salary have an internal meeting explosion to almost $600,000 Thursday morning and then per year in 1990. contact the union. 


Tonight  CLUB CUP NITE  
Friday  Lunch Noon-2  
Friday  Live•••Pheonix  

Saturday Misfits (10·11) DJ"S (11·2) 
·~· 

CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES PREACHING CHRIST JESUS The Essential Mission of the Church Preaching the Lord Jesus is more than just the words of a clever speaker. True preaching requires each Christian to know the Lord Jesus and his message, and so live as to proclaim the Good News of salvation. 
BILL SIMMONS, CSC . Simmons is pastor of Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. He has extensive teaching experience in secondary and college levels. His work recently has been devoted to parish activities and retreat work. ··.. · · .. Sun., Feb. 25 & Tue., Feb 27 Keenan-Stanford Chape1 7pm Sponsored by Campus Ministry. For more information call Sr. Mary Curran, CSC 239-5242 




Thoughts 
continued from pege 16 
cent recruiting class, the more I think Notre Dame may never lose another college football game. 
Former Notre Dame assistant Pete Gillen has done an amazing job at Xavier. 
For my money and time, the best basketball is still in the Big Ten. 
Why do I have this feeling that we're all a little bit better off since Andre Hastings chose Georgia? 
Somewhere, somehow, there should be more basketball courts on this campus. 
If you live out of state, make plans to attend at least one round of the Indiana high school tournament that begins next week. 
The time is ripe for Notre Dame to jump ship in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference.The Olympic programs can get no better playing MCC competition on a regular basis. 
I think baseball fans have no one to blame but the owners for the current situation. 
I think there should be some kind of protest by on-campus students for the administration to install ESPN in dorms. 
I really like the band and cheerleaders version of "William Tell Overture" even if they did copy it from Indiana. When Indiana does that with a packed house, it is by far the most intimidating and best cheer in college basketball. 

Hawaii 
continued from page 16 
best and he knows how to beat 
the best." 
The reason Piotrowicz, as 
well as senior set-up man Tony 
livorsi have earned this status 
is their adherence to "the plan." 
Murphy firmly believes that to 
be a successful pitcher you 
must get the first strike, spot 
pitches all through the count 
and use all your pitches in do­
ing these things. Following the 
lead of these upperclassmen is 
the key for the five extremely 
talented freshmen pitchers that 
Murphy has now. 
"The freshmen are all vying 
for a spot," Murphy said. " It's 
been a struggle. It takes some 
time to learn our pitching plan. 
They are progressing, but they 
have a long, long way to go." 

Many people overlook the de­fensive aspect of baseball, but not Murphy. His infielders take hundreds of ground balls a night through the winter months at Loftus. The starting infield of Joe Binkiewicz (who will also make a big mound contribution), Cory Mee, Mike Coss and Craig Counsell from first to third are solid. 
"Our infield is going to be the book cover of our team," Murphy said. "They're a bunch of overachievers. They don't have a lot talent, but they're consistent. They work very hard and they have great base­ball minds." 
Ed Lund will handle the catching duties and will be in­strumental in the development of the Irish pitching staff. In the outfield, Tom Murray and Eric Danapilis will battle for time. Dan Bautch, a reserve team player last year, has shown that hard work pays off as he earned the starting job in center. Mike Miadich will be in right field. 
Offensively, the Irish won't try to replace Dan Peltier, Pat Pesavento, and James Sass be­cause you simply can't. However, Notre Dame does have a few players who are ca­pable of putting up impressive numbers. 
"(Frank} Jacobs will play a big role as well as Eddie Lund," observed Murphy. "I also look for a freshmen, Eric Danapilis, to be ready to swing the bat." 
Lund and Jacobs will be the primary big guns in the lineup. Lund hit .328 with four HR's and 48 RBI's last year. Jacobs checked in with a .295 mark along with six HR's and 38 RBI. Cory Mee (.327} and Craig Counsell (.289) are capable of coming up with four or five hits per series. 
,.
""'' ....... ' ~~ 
·~~"''······~' 
-
.......___.... ·~-­

"'-<*~Mrl Jahn H. CkMr Keith Robinson's strong performances have coincided with Irish upsets and Notre Dame will definitely need his 14.3 points and 7.5 rebounds per game against Georgia Tech Saturday. 
-· 
I -w 
~ 
TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 

I,_ lit 
-

......... 
i 

lit &~ 

Keith 
continued from page 16 
Tech this coming Saturday. Serotte is coming to town, and it is likely that he will have a few words of wisdom for Keith Robinson. 
"Keith's got a lot at stake here," says Serotte. "He's got to play well for his stock to in­crease." 
Serotte is referring, of course, to Robinson's potential to play in the National Basketball Association after this, his final season at Notre Dame, comes to an end. If Robinson continues to score and rebound well, he may be chosen in the NBA draft. 
"Keith could be a good small forward in the NBA. He shoots well from the outside. If he has five consistent games to close out the season, he could have a great future as a small forward in the NBA," says Serotte. 
But for now, Robinson will concentrate on moving the Irish toward an NCAA Tournament bid. His senior leadership was 

~rF vou~vrE ~oT ~l~ T~rE~ wrE W#\~nr ~T ~ 
0 0 0 ~ 

There are o~:o in cash prizes to the winners of the ~ ~ ~ ~ March 29 /J_ ,_/_~ _ TALENT SHOW /" ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~~~5 o~l>~.~·~
~ 

To audition for the show please V 0 5D v.. apply at the Student Activities ~ office b FEBRUARY,28. 

Student Manager and Bartender Applications & Job o·escriptions for 1990-91 are now available in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Manager application deadline is Feb 23. Bartender application deadline is March 7. 
----~-----­

especially evident late in the game against Syracuse when he hit a key jumper just before the shot clock expired on one pos­session, and pulled the ball out to run valuable time off the clock on several others as the Irish beat the Orangemen 66­65. 
"A senior should be more un­der control in those situations and help the younger guys out," states Robinson. 
There was a time when Robinson was the younger guy who needed guidance on the floor. Since he was ineligible under Proposition 48 to play or practice during his freshman year, Robinson had a lot of catching up to do when prac­tices began in his sophomore year. 
"A lot of the things the guys learned freshman year I missed out on. I didn't have the chance to learn anything until my sec­ond year, so that hurt me," says Robinson. 
"Watching from the sideline was really rough," continues Robinson. "It paid off more academically because coming out of high school I didn't have the skills to organize my time, but it was a rough period, and it was something I had to ad­just to." 
Robinson has adjusted and developed to the point where with five games left in his this year, he is second on the team to LaPhonso Ellis in scoring 
(14.3 ppg) and rebounding (7.5 rpg). He also is within striking distance of the 1,000 point mark, as he has scored 977 points in an Irish uniform. 
If Robinson scores enough points to crack the 1,000 point barrier, the Irish may upset Georgia Tech this weekend. 
"If the guards dump the ball down low to Keith and LaPhonso, Notre Dame is very tough to beat," says Serotte. 
And when Serotte gives Robinson a pre-game pep talk, the Irish are even tougher to beat. 

...-------------~-----~----~-­
Thursday, February 22, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Thursday ACROSS 26 Prill is one 46 Pit surrounding a
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch: Center for Social Concerns. 
27 Turtle's upper plum seed 

Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace. 1-Rivera, 
shell 48 "-was

suburb of L.A. 
29 Save saying ..." 

5 Ale ingredient 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Trees, Peasant, and the Haitian 
33 Journalist-49 Welder, e.g. 

9 Actresses 
Church: The Anthropology of Environmental Reconcilia­
Rogers St. Johns 50 Htghly.

Eichhorn and 
tion," Professor Gerald Murray, University of Florida. 34 An acid dtsctplined
Eilbacher

Room 122 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by Department of An­, 54 Scandinavian
14 Jewish month 36 Poker player s . t. f
thropology and Reilly Center for the Study of Science, kitty 57 R e d vane tes o
15 Brainchild 
quartz

Technology and Values. 
16"-mio" 37 Opp. of long. 60 Radames' 17 Wood measure 38 McCarthy's beloved s
6:30 p.m. Career/Decision Making Workshop continues. 
18 Runnymede fellow traveler 61 With 40 Across, a
University Counseling Center. 
document: 1215 39 U.N. labor org. second self 20 Animal lacking 40 See 61 Across 62 Singer Laine 
6:30 p.m. Workshop: "Resumes For All Types of Jobs," 
in color 41 "-porridge 63 Calendar abbr. 
Paula Cook, Career Counselor, Career and Placement. 
22 Avaricious hot . " 64 Convenes Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Career and person 42 Tropical tree 65 N.C. college Placement. 23 In-(as one) 44 Actress Senta 66 Austen novel: 1816 7 p.m. Panel Discussion: "Solidarity and the Future of Poland: After the Euphoria". Montgomery Theater, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN
LaFortune Student Center. 
1 S.A. rodent 8 p.m. Lecture, "The State of the Union of the U.S. 
2 Adored one Health Care System", Honorable Otis Bowen, M.D., 3 Auto part former secretary of the Department of Health and Human 4 Kind of number Services. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the 5 Tree or cocktail Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 6 Okla. city 13 Gunlock part 31 Of the sun 50 Confidence 19 On all sides game
7 Part of a journey 32 Condescend BZip 21 Asiatic palm 35 Actress Papas 51 Ashen 
24 City inN
9 Site of a 1925 38 "Dynasty," for 52Commedia
MENUS Colombia 
one dell'­
peace 

25 Waterloos
Notre Dame conference 41 Annoys 53 Pleasant French 
27 Israelite leader: 
10 Juan Per6n's 42 Lake or singer city?
Deut. 1:36
Chicken Fajitas 

successor: 1974 28 Saying 43 Needle-shaped 55 Footnote abbr. Cheese & Veg Pot Pie 
11 Kind of apple 30 Part of a sac 45 Jan. birthstone 56 House. in Spain 
Veal Parmesan 

surrounding the 47 Actor in 58 Everything
BLT 

(Adenauer) heart "Cheers" 59 Modernist 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

-
I 
I 
~ 
1 I 
1 
j 
I I 

1 
I 

HOW'S 'fOOR T\-11'5 PIECE. IS ASOJf 
SNOW ART ~t. IAA~t>.C.i OF 
PPrGR'tSSING !' ~AOH'IOHI>.L IMA<ot~ 
I""'\ AWl Si~LS TO

~:~ 
, '-'~ C\:ltll~ I"'Q.t{\~G

"'­
""' -IN ~'1S W~LD. 

B'1 ABi\NilONING R£1'RtS£N­
I NOTICE 'iOIJR TATiot-lALISM, I'M FR£t 10 
0£\JVRE. \'5 E'tPRts.S !#I~St:li=' 't(\n\ P\JR£ 
MONOCI\RO!I.ATK. FORM. SP'i:C\~IC IN~I'R£· ThTIO~ G\\11:5 Wr..'{ iO A 
~~ 

M<i('t. 'ilse£RAL ~~':.£. ""'~. _r:;,j ........
I 


~ CI1990Un~VEt~NIPressSynchcate 2·2Z 


Civil Service History: On Oct. 12, 1979 (Columbus Day), government employee George Sullivan goes in to work for a couple of hours to, in his own words, "take care of some unfinished business." 
... TH£SE  'PE:OPL.£  LIVE  IN  INA-~GUA-T£,  
HoU&ij6,) 'RAREL'1"  +tAVE"  fNDOGtH  ;o  
tAT  PrNT>  MOST  OFI€N  ~€SO'Ri  

iO WEARIN61 RAV!S :JUST "rn CL01lt6 TttEMSELV£5. 
ANOTHE" SPECIAL ON rH£ ftlMf U:SS? 
""" 

NOP£. GIIAOUATE STIJDEIJl!i............. 


Tonight 
Eight Men Out 
8:00 and 10:15 Charlie Sheen John Cusack 


Cushing Auditorium $2.00 per person 

S.U.B.. Executive Council Positions for 1990-1991: 
Board Manager
Sign-ups will take place 
Director of Programming
on Sunday, February 25, 
Director of Relations
from 1:00 to 4:00 P.M. 
Director of Marketing
in the Great Hall of O'Shag 
Controller 

Pick up applications at Secretary's Desk, 2nd floor, Lafortun
~ 
Sign up fee isl!S,!:!Q. 
Last day to turn in is TodayIll 
STUDENT UNION Bo-t.Jt.O 

r-----~--~~----~--------~--------------------------~--------------------------------------------~ 
Sports
page 16 Thursday, February 22, 1990 
Irish baseball heads for sunnier skies in Hawaii 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
It's hard to believe that Indiana. with all its ice and snow this time of year, is in the same country as Hawaii where it was SO degrees and sunny yesterday. But this weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team will get to experience a place that most people only dream about. llowever, the purpose of the trip is not rest and n~lax­ation. 
" It will be a fun trip in that it will be a great experience." ex­plaim~d Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "We're not going there to lay on the beach and collect seashPlls. but to play baseball, 
become better as  a  team and  
mature as a team."  
Besides  getting  his  team  

rnady to face the University of Hawaii in a three-game set this week1md. Murphy can relish the fact that his team will travel to Texas the following weekend, the Seattle Kingdome over Spring Break and then host such national powers as Illinois and Nebraska later in the year. 
In preparation for this tremm1dous schedule, the Irish players have put in long hours of practice. While many people were wondering what color carpet to get for their room last August, the Irish were al­ready practicing. Murphy knows that the hard work will pay ofT for his squad. 

"We're very young, but very capable. We have lost so much of our team that our team has taken on a little bit of a new identity," said Murphy. "We have to be even more blue collar than we ever were and even more of a competitor than we ever were." 
Thn blue collar work ethic has been a Murphy mainstay since his first day as head coach. lie maintains that his team isn't that talented, but be­cause they work harder than anyone else in thn country, there is no limit to what this tlmm can accomplish. 
" I believe in these guys," Murphy said. "I think they can be competitive with anybody in the country. I think they have a competitive spirit that is being nurtured now that will allow them to do this." 
From their opening 3-0 win over Goshen, it was evident that the pitching staff and defensive play are going to get the Irish most of their victories this year. 

The Irish have some holes to fill in the pitching staff due to the loss of Erik Madsen (1 0-4, 
4.07 ERA) and Mike Pasilla (6­2,4.55 ERA) to graduation. In addition sophomore Brian Conway, who recorded five wins in 1989, will be lost because of arm surgery. By no means, 

Robinson keys plan for ND upset 
6'9 forward looks to high school coach for inspiration 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
When Grover Cleveland High School c~oach Art Serotte talks, Notre Dame forward K1~ith Hobinson listens. 
Although he graduated from Grover Cleveland in Buffalo, 
N.Y. almost four years ago, Hobinson still values his ex­eoach's advice. And even though Serotte doesn't get many opportunities to chat with his former star, his words have a remarkable effect on Hobinson's play. 
Two years ago Serotte came to Notre Dame to sen Hobinson and the Irish play against Kansas in the Joyce ACC. Before the game, he gave Hobinson a little pep talk. 
"I told Keith I didn't travel 800 miles to see him play lousy and watch Notre Dame lose the game." says Serotte. 
Although the distanee from Notre Dame to BuiTalo is closer to 500 miles than 800, Serotte made his point with Robinson, who averaged 30 points and 22 

.. 
rebounds per game as a senior at Grover Cleveland. Hobinson responded with perhaps the best game of his 

Keith Robinson 

sophomore season, recording 10 points, 10 boards and three steals in an 80-76 win over 
Player of the Year Danny Manning and the rest of the Jayhawks, who went on to win the NCAA Tournament. 
Serotte has spoken to Hobinson twice this season. The­first conversation sparked the 6-9 senior to make all nine of his field goal attempts in an 86­84 victory over UClA. This past weekend Serotte again inspired Hobinson, as he scored 13 points and added eight rebounds against the highly ac­daimed front line of the Syracuse Oran emen. 
"lie just has me reflect back on my high school days." Robinson says of Serotte. "He just wants me to go out there and play, try to block every­thing else out, and concentrate on my game." 
"You've got to understand our closeness," explains Serotte. "We're like father and son. I can't explain the unique­ness of our relationship." 
"He's always been an influ­ence on Keith because he knows the family situation," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "And as a second father he's able to be honest and open with him." 
Serotte believes that quality play from Robinson is the key ingredient in any Irish success against quality teams. Statistics support his argu­ment. When Robinson played well against UCLA and Syracuse, Notre Dame was able to squeak out wins. But in sub­par Robinson performances against Duke and LSU the Irish bowed in defeat. 
But there is good news for Hobinson and the Notre Dame basketball team as they prepare to face eighth-ranked Georgia 
see KEITH I page 14 

though are the Irish without "He's not the most talented pitchers who can get the job pitcher, but his tempcramPnt is done. unbelievable," Murphy said. 
Anchoring the staff will be "lie's a great competitor and senior All-MCC performer Brian he's getting bettPr as a pitcher. Piotrowicz, who was 11-4 last He's been in big gamP~. he season with a spectacular 2.24 knows how to pitch against the ERA. He also walked only 37 batters in 113 innings. see HAWAII I page 14 

Senior Keith Robinson will have to be at the top of his game Saturday when the Irish take on eighth-ranked Georgia Tech in the Joyce ACC. 
This, that and some other meaningless thoughts 
Some thoughts on some things that probably aren't worth thinking about. 
Is it just me or does it seem like college basketball has passnd by NBC's A1 McGuire? 
If women's track can be a varsity sport, then I can't think of one solid reason why 

et 
Maybe it's because I don't understand it, and I ference title in 1991. know Notre Dame's teams are among the best in the I don't think anyone ever imagined David country, but I still don't see the reasoning behind Robinson would have such a big impact in his first classifying fencing as a sport. NBA season. 
Why is it that I only see the entire cheerleading For my money, I'll take Larry Bird in his prime squad at big events (i.e. football) when the television over Michael Jordan in his even if Jordan hasn't 
... cameras are rolling? reached it yet. They give parades for titles, not for 
It's ridiculous that people buy season tickets in the points. yellow boxes at the Joyce ACC and then don't attend If you've never seen a Notre Dame moment in 
men's volleyball should not be Greg Guffey the games. sports-and the only one I can think of in the past promoted. Asst Sports Editor The Valentine's Day auction was a great success, three years was the 31-30 football victory over 
As much as I hate to admit but the organizers would need to pay me to spend Miami-then make plans to be at the JACC on it, is there any doubt that time with many of the auctionees. March 3 when the Irish host Missouri. Purdue's Gene Keady should Indiana may be down now, but Bob Knight should I don't know about you, but The National will be the Coach of the Year if the Boilers hang on for win at least one national title before this year's need to be really, really good to get my subscription. the Big Ten title? (With Kentucky's Rick Pitino a freshman class graduates. The women's basketball team deserves a post-sea­
.• 
close second?) As long as Lou Henson remains in coaching, does son tourney berth just for allowing the other MCC 
I don't care if his daughter is coming here. I'm it really matter if Illinois cheats? teams to play on the same floor with them. still getting sick of hearing Dick Vitale announce How about this scenario: Illinois gets the death The more I listen to Lou Holtz rave about this re-basketball games. penalty, the Big Ten brings Notre Dame into its 
Sunday's wrestling match with Iowa should be big. basketball league and Digger Phelps wins the con-see THOUGHTS I page 14 






