----~----~---------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 37 -WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

British arrive APPholo 
British troops from the 7th Armored Brigade, dubbed the "Desert 
Rats," descend a ramp from a Lockheed L-1011 at a U.S. Marine 
base in Saudi Arabia Tuesday:...______________, 

'U' newspaper reinstated 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Associate News Editor 
Student government has de­cided to partially reinstate the subscription to the "U" news­paper, said Student Body Presi­dent Rob Pasin. 

Pasin said that the deci6ion was based on the number of calls received on the FRED line concerning whether or not the "U" subscription should in fact be cancelled. 
In a letter published in the October 11 issue of The Ob­server, Pasin and Student Body Vice-President Fred Tombar asked students to call the FRED line and give their opinion whether or not "U" should be cancelled. 
Since it appeared to student government that few students actually read the magazine, Pasin and Tombar thought it would be best to cancel the subscription, but asked first for student input. "The fate of 'U' is up to you," said the letter. 
Pasin said that after the letter was published, there were 73 calls on the FRED line about "U" with 43 in favor of the sub­scription continuing, and 30 opposed. 
"We felt it was the best way to gauge opinion," he said. "We know it's not perfect, but is was the best option open to us." 
Several persons calling the FRED line made helpful sugges­tions, Pasin said, including the possibility of whether student government could get a partial subscription. "We IPasin and Tombarl checked to see if it was feasible. It is, so we'll therefore be getting 'U' only half as frequently as before," said Pasin. 
He added that "U" will no longer be inserted into The Ob-
see ·u· I page 4 

NO announces staff changes 
Special to The Observer 

Three changes in executive positions at Notre Dame have been announced by William Sexton, vice president for University Relations. 
James Murphy, 66, associate vice president for University Relations, will assume a major planning responsibility for Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial, to be observed from Sept. 1991 to Oct. 1992. 
While assisting Associate Provost Roger Schmitz, who is directing the Sesquicentennial, Murphy will continue to be a consultant to University Relations. 
A 1947 NO graduate who did graduate journalism study at Northwestern University, Murphy became director of public information at Notre Dame in 1952 and headed me­dia relations at the University until assuming his current posi­tion in 1969. 
Before joining the University's staff, he was a news editor for the American Broadcasting Company in Chicago and a public relations representative for the American Legion's national headquarters in 
Off-campus students often face isolation from campus, but find close friendships 
By  KATE  MANUEL  
News Writer  
Although  most individuals  

who move ofT-campus make the movtl with a group of friends, ofT-campus students must often face a sense of isolation from on-campus life and pvents, ac­cording to Cncelia Burger, a se­nior who moved off-campus in thn summer bntween her sophomore and junior years. 
"If you really want to be around people all the time, don't move off-campus. It's re­ally hard to ke11p up with things on campus. You become more independent but you also be­come more dependent on frifmds to keep you up," she said. 
"You rely on friends to make you at home on campus; to give you a home away from horne," Burger said, eiting the help of Tony Bosco, Jim DeMarco, Jim O'Conner, and Brad Fuller of Keenan Hall "for giving me a home away from home away 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING 
THIRD OF A THREE PART SERIES 

from home." 
Burger said that she missed the late night talks with her dormmates. She also missed "this fall, when everyone came back and were setting up their rooms, the bonding going on there. You have to make an ef­fort to spend time with your friends. You need to spend ex­tra time doing special things with friends." 
Despite a certain level of iso­lation among off-campus stu­dents, these students often de­velop close friendships with other off-campus students and with neighbors, according to Dave Haymond, a senior who has lived off-campus for three years. 
"It is difficult to get a hold of information about on-campus events. Finding such events takes more searching," he said. "But it would be difficult for me to make the transition to on­campus life now, because after you've been living off-campus for years your friends are off­campus." 
Off-campus representative Mark Bettencourt hopes to see a greater interest in both social and security concerns among off-campus students, and he encourages interested off-cam­pus students to contact himself or Steve Leinenweber to share ideas or to offer help. 
"We've discussed many times with the senior class officers trying to increase off-campus participation in senior class ac­tivities," he said. "But we haven't made a concerted effort to address the social issues be­cause we thought addressing crime was more important." 


Indianapolis. 
Richard Conklin, who has worked in media relations for Notre Dame for 23 years, 21 of them as director, will be pro­moted from assistant to asso­ciate vice president for University Relations and as­sume Murphy's duties. 
Conklin, 54, holds a bache­lor's degree from the University of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., and an M.A. in American Studies from Notre Dame. He came to Notre Dame as an as­sistant director of public in­formation in 1967 and assumed the directorship two years later. He was made an assistant vice president in 1985. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Conklin was a reporter for the 
St. Louis Post-Dispatch and Minneapolis Star and taught journalism and ran the news bureau at St. Thomas. 
Dennis Moore will be assum­ing Conklin's duties with the ti­tle director of Public Relations and Information. Moore, 42, a member of the Notre Dame Class of 1970, joined the Notre Dame staff in Aug. 1988 as an assistant director in the de­partment he will now head, and he was promoted to associate director in July 1989. 
Moore's previous experience includes 20 years in corporate public relations, marketing and magazine writing and editing. In addition to eight years spent as a freelance writer and con­sultant, he principally worked for Consumers Power Company in Jackson, Mich. and Kiwanis Magazine in Chicago. 

"These changes in responsi­bility assure that our Sesquicentennial celebration will get the experienced atten­tion it deserves while preserv­ing the continuity in public rela­tions at the University which has been a major institutional strength," Sexton said in mak­ing the announcement. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 17.
Why are 

Lines show high temperatures. 

feminist issues 


Yesterday's High: 6 7 Yesterday's Low: 43 
Nation's High: 96 
(Borrego Springs, CA) 
Nation's Low: 2 0 

(Gunnison, CO) 

a big deal? 
Inclusive language, changing the fight 
Forecast: 
song, panty raids, 

Partly cloudy, breezy, 
women in men's 

and mild today with a 40 
locker rooms-big 

percent chance of early
deal, right? 

morning showers, fol­
Right. All of these 

lowed by a chance of late 
issues are important, 

afternoon thunder­
but there are still a Robyn Simmons 

storms. The high will be in 
lot of people on cam-

the low to mid-70's. pus who don't think Asst. Accent Editor 
Cloudy, windy, and 
so. 

cooler tonight with an 80
The Year of Women has sparked debate 

percent chance of 
about various feminist issues, but there is a 

evening thunderstorms.
considerable amount of students on campus 

The low will be in the
who feel that there are more important 

middle to upper 40's.
things to worry about than whether or not 

Tomorrow will be much 
we sing about Notre Dame's "loyal sons" or 

Pressure 

colder with a 50 percent
"loyal sons and daughters." 

chance of showers and a
®© ~~~ ~ 
Right now our country is facing a lot of 

high in the upper 40's. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
problems that make the. debate over inclu­sive language and panty raids seem pale in comparison, and I'll be the first person to admit that I worry more about our women and men in the Persian Gulf than whether or OF INTEREST not Saint Mary's continues to have panty 
raids. 

The History Club will be holding a discussion A required driver seminar for anyone planningBut just because these feminist issues with faculty members for all those interested in the possi-to request use of a Center for Social Concerns van will be don't make the front pages everyday doesn't bility of entering graduate school in history. The discus-held at 4:30p.m.. Thursday, in the Center's Multi-purpose mean they are any less significant. It's easy sion will be held in the Dooley room, first floor of Room. This is a mandatory class for anyone who has not to say that we shouldn't make such a big 
LaFortune, at 7:30p.m. taken the class. 
deal over these issues when there are more 
important things to worry about, but what 

Psychology Club members are invited to meet 
individual has the right to rank all of the faculty over breakfast Thursday morning, 8:15 -9:45 a.m. 

problems our society faces in order of im­in the Psychology Lounge, Haggar Hall. 

London Program applications are now available Issues such as the fight song or panty 
portance? 

at the program office, 103 O'Shaughnessy Hall.
Stand-up comedians are needed for a campus 
Completed applications are due no later than Wednesday,raids may not cause people to lose as much show in the near future. If interested, call Adam bysleep as they might be losing over the state 
Friday at 283-3374. October 31. 
of the economy, but these are matters that 
we can take into our own hands. We may 
not be able to keep gas prices from sky­WORLDrocketing, but we do have the power to 
eliminate sexism at Notre Dame if we want 

Mikhail Gorbachev on Tuesday submitted a Kuwait's government-in-exile on Tuesday to. The question is how many students are 
scaled-back plan to transform the Soviet economy, elimi-ruled out conceding "one inch" of territory to Iraq in any willing to do it. 
nating a 500-day deadline for switching to a free-market settlement, and the United States said it would not accept As long as people continue to put issues 
system. His action drew an angry response from rival partial solutions to the Persian Gulf crisis. The comments such as inclusive language on the back 
Boris Yeltsin, Gorbachev's onetime partner in economic followed hints that Iraq might withdraw from Kuwait if it burner, there will never be full equality be­
reform, who termed the program an attempt "to preserve is allowed to retain three key areas -two islands con­tween the sexes. The issues that have been 
the administrative bureaucratic system." Yeltsin, presi-trolling Iraq's access to the gulf and part of an oil field. discussed on the Viewpoint pages in the 
dent of the Russian republic, said Russia, the largest re-But Iraq took a firm position Tuesday, with the newspa­past two months may seem small in and of 
public in the Soviet Union, might ignore the plan and set per of Saddam Hussein's ruling .party saying: "We will not themselves, but when you look at these is­
up its own currency, customs service and army. Russian give it [Kuwait] up even if we fight for it 1,000 years." sues as a whole, they become part of a 
officials have vowed to start a 500-day transition from a much larger picture. 
planned to a free-market economy Nov. 1. Perhaps all of those people who feel that 
gender-neutral pronouns and changing the fight song are pointless should try to write 

NATIONAL a paper using inclusive language or sing the 

Sen. Alan Cranston was
fight song with the alternate lyrics at least 



A gargantuan storm 1 112 times as wide as the
summoned Tuesday in Washington toone time. If you find yourself having to Earth has suddenly developed in Saturn's atmosphere and answer Senate Ethics Committeethink twice before writing "humankind" or the Hubble Space Telescope will be used to watch it, as­questions about his efforts to assistsinging "loyal sons and daughters" you've tronomers in Los Angeles said Tuesday. The oval-shapedCharles Keating, whose savings andgot the point behind these arguments. 
white spot on the solar system's second-largest planetloan was near collapse. Cranston, D­Changing the way we write changes the way . 
measures 12,500 miles wide by 3,100 miles long, theyCalif., one of five senators under in­we think. 
said. "'It's lovely," said Reta Beebe, an astronomer atvestigation, entered the closed meeting It's about time that students on this cam­New Mexico State University. Together, the three spotswith a stack of files and said he would pus realize that feminist issues are not go­stretch east to west 50,000 miles -almost one third ofnot comment publicly on his testimony. 
ing to go away just because we don't feel the way around the equatorial region of the ringed planetCranston contacted U.S. banking regulators on behalfthey are important in light of other events. 

-and 3,100 miles north to south, she said by phone from of Keating in 1987 and continued the intervention untilIt is up to each person to decide where they Las Cruces, N.M.
the federal government seized Keating's Lincoln Savingswant to put feminist issues on their list of and Loan in April 1989. 
priorities, but it is important that feminist issues are on the list in the first place. 

ALMANACINDIANA MARKET UPDATE 

On October 17: 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 

eln 1777: British forc~s underThe federal government sued two 
General John Burgoyne surrendered to
Tuesday's Staff 

major Indiana steelmakers for alleged violations American troops in Saratoga, N.Y., in
Volume in shares News Sports 
of pollution laws Tuesday, promising a more ag­what proved a turning point of the 
SystemsCarolyn Amann Chris Cooney 

gressive assault on Great Lakes polluters and 149.57 Million Revolutionary War.
Marl\ Sloan Paul Pearson 

threatening shareholder earnings with the eln 1977: West German comman­
Mike Murphy 
Mike Owens Production 

prospect of multi-million dollar civil penalties. dos stormed a hijacked Lufthansa jet­
Molly Flecker 
Graphics 

"They can't disregard the law," said Assistant liner that was on the ground in
Accent Cheryl Moser Michael Muldoon 

NYSE Index Mogadishu, Somalia, freeing all 86
Attorney General Richard Stewart. "If they pol­John Fischer VIewpoint 
Paige A. Smoron 

163.64 ~ 2.20 hostages aboard and killing three of the
lute illegally, they're going to have to pay, in addi­
Circulation 

S&P Composite four hijackers.
Melissa Cusack Kim St.Ciair 
BiiiO'Rourlle 

tion to cleaning up the problem." The lawsuits
Kathy Welsh 
1.47
Matt Novak 

298.92 ~ eln 1989: An earthquake measur­
filed in U.S. District Court at Hammond named
Ad Design 

Dow Jones Industrials ing 7.1 on the Richter scale struck
Scoreboard 

Inland Steel Industries Inc., Bethlehem Steel
Kelly McHugh 

2,381.19 ~35.15 northern California. killing 67 people, in­
Rene Ferran CaraEckman 

Corp., and a Whiting company, Federated Metals 
juring 2,500 and causing $7 billion in
Kerry Clair 

Corp. Precious Metals damage. 
Gold f'$13.75to $362.0/oz. e Ten years ago: In an
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 

address to the U.N. Security Council, Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 

Silver ~ .93¢ to $4.142/oz. Iranian Prime Minister Mohammad Ali rights are reserved. 
Rajai accused the United States of aiding Iraq in its war with Iran.
-------------------------' 

---------~~~------­
Wednesday, October 17, 1990 
The Observer 


,.....-----......--.......----------------­
Hr"P'PY B'l'D'T'UD1 A y
./"1 .lfi .l n, :rl

'[10 __________.. for help in avoiding another snowball fight this year. ~ AN AND BlDJr AN ALES1r A It was suggested at last
D~ ~-L1 L1 week's meeting that the hall presidents circulate a letter 




DAN !BIRIIAN 
LOVE, DAD AND MOM 


WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A workshop for couples in a serious rei a tionship who want to explore choices and expectations for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 12:30-5 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED; Stages of relationships Expectations for the future Steps in making healthy decisions 

COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME; 
"An excellent opportunity to examine 0\4 relationship 
in a comprehensive way" "A good balance of time together, lecture and take-home materials" 
'1t was nice to be able to have time set aside to really sit down and discuss issues!" "I was glad I traveled 4 hrs. to be here with my partner." 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQIDRED. 

Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. 
Applications lire due by Wednesday, October 31. 
181 
0MPU5 

MINISTRY 

totally unnecessary repair." 
"I have no moral compunc­tions about snowball fights," she continued. "It's just that we can't tolerate property damage 
and personal injury within a 
community context." 
O'Hara appealed to the IIPC security on duty continuously sentative to the ND Student Se-and it is difficult to apprehend nate. Both candidates, Chip responsible individuals. this so-Mailn and .Joe Blanco agreed lution could be useless, accord-that student government and ing to O'Hara. In addition, it is IIPC roles should be revised. impractical to hold students li-'The student government sit-able for thousands of dollars in uation right now should be re-damages. evaluated and 1 think the IIPC 

Lastly, it was suggested that should be put into a position halls be given some incentive to where it has a little more adhere to the regulations. power," said Mailn. The results rather than simply face pun-of this vote were not released at ishment if they do not. the meeting. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 






"'"'Mclfch of Dimes 
~ -llliiiBIRTH-DEFECtS FOUNDATION-illlil 

THE MUIIC OF LDBERATION 
Featuring an exuberant, young South African cast of high school and college age performers who have successfully played Broadway and are touring the country. 
Morris Civic Auditorium • South Bend October 27-28 Saturday 8p.m., Sunday 1:30 &7p.m. EST 
"SARAFINA! bubbles with enthusiasm, humor, righteous anger, passion and unquenchable hope. A celebration, too, of Mbaganga, the music that electrifies and sustains the black townships in South Africa." 
-John Simon, New York Magazine 
Tickets: Eves. -$29.50 $24.50 $17.50 $12.50 Matinee-$24.50 $19.50 $15.50 $10.50 
MasterCard & Visa Accepted Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 

8 ~'­
BOX OFFICE OPEN OCT. 9 
10 a.m.· 5p.m. Monday· Friday Telephone 284-9190 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
--~--­

~~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Panel tells students interested in foreign relations to think about graduate school 



, By MARK CAWLEY News Writer 
Interested students who have strong "gut" feelings about get­ting involved in international relations should consider grad­uate studies in international af­fairs, agreed a panel of repre­sentatives from international affairs graduate schools on Tuesday. 
The panel discussion con­cerned the goals of a graduate program in international affairs and the admissions and financial aid procedures in­volved with pursuing such a de­gree. 
The panel stated that, "a de­gree in international affairs is intended to produce efficient and knowledgeable individuals for work in foreign relations." This type of graduate degree also offers an interdisciplinary education in such areas as politics, history, economics, and law, according to the paneL 
The admissions procedures· are similar at most schools of­fering a degree in international affairs, according to Margaret Clark, director of graduate admissions at Princeton University. "First of all, we recommend that you meet all deadlines. We also want to know where you got your inter­est in international affairs and what you want to do with it," Clark said. 
While law schools and medi­cal schools highly emphasize test scores, "we take a more qualitative look at the student," said Clark. "Admissions offi­cers for international affairs degree programs look closely at extra-curricular activities, letters of recommendations, and work experience," she said. 
To help finance an interna­tional affairs degree, "graduate schools look to give you work­study programs and fellow­ships," said MarJean Knokey, assistant dean for admissions at Columbia University. "These programs are usually merit­need based, though," she added. The Financial Aid Form (FAF) is used most often by graduate schools, according to Knokey. "It is also important that if students have any ques­tions that they do not hesitate to call us," she said. 
The graduate schools repre­sented by the panel are mem­bers of the Association of Public Service and International Affairs (APSIA) Schools. 

'U' 
continued from page 1 
server, but will instead be 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER 
placed alongside it. In other student government 

ON LAW & GOVERNMENT news, Student Senate on Mon­day approved a $5400 loan to create "The Notre Dame Video 
PRESENTS
Store" in the former location of the Cellar, in the basement of LaFortune. The loan was given 

A Lecture 
unanimous approvaL 
The decision to fund a video store on campus was based on several reasons, said Pasin. The 

BY 
Cellar, a student-run music store, had closed, and student government wanted another 

WILLIAM J. BENNETT
student-run business there. 
"Student businesses serve two purposes," Pasin said. "They provide business experience, 

Director
and provide services to students as well." As more and more students and halls get VCRs, a video store should be a good 

OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY 
service as the need for videos increases, he said. 

ON
We're Fighting For Your Life. 

"Modernity and the Care of Our Children"
ftAmerican Heart 
"'Association 

Wednesday, October 17 7:30p.m.
WEAR IT 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium WITH CLASS! 
• a ~~: .-("· i·· ,-., 1 ~ .. ,..,. ·~ ,-. r:. ,-. ,::. ·::. ·:. •
! C~) 'I Preur cwolltlln (~) ~ r .. -~~~·P v"H;~ 1:"-"_, ! 
•. Cll1'1"(J/[,r{ud//Of1UJH ·' ~r-iday .. Oct. 1~; •. 
/Li ,..,A,.,Jr. 4-6f2 rn. 
• ~~-r u DU"1n Hacqar Pt1r!o;· • • 9 &1/ptm. Sponsore·:j b'v' 1 \h/'?1 11esSmc • : tJr!mtsi/011$1 f'-1al<e sure to piCk Uf:l by br:lcelet during the wee(,., : • Wopufar (uftut•e Gt'oup The bracelet entitles 'lOU to free softdrinks at • • Oct 6 6 partJclpatmg bars! so·wear therni • 
• * • bp.mt> •
. .
~~~• c~ 9iw. ~ opittlotis t)jt ~tt· C\VOtttatt • 
• t • 
Wednesday, October 17, 1990 The Observer page 5 

Motorcycle courier 
AP Photo Marine Lance Cpl. Greg Schmidt of New Orleans rides a motorcy­cle across the Saudi desert Sunday. 
Happy -Belated Birthday Sweet P! What a mug! Love, Kristin and Jen 

Persecution of homosexuals is wrong, gay teacher says 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
Homosexual activities are not 
immoral or inherently harmful 
to society, and therefore the 
persecution of homosexuals is 
unjust according to Richard 
Mohr. 

Mohr is an openly gay profes­sor of philosophy at the Uni­versity of Illinois and an award winning author. 
According to Mohr, nearly 2/5 of all men have had an orgas­mic homosexual experience, and homosexuals are involved in all levels of society. He stated that "homosexuals are your friends, ministers, teach­ers, office mate, roommate, Congressional representative, your spouse." 
Mohr argued that the stereo­types surrounding gays and lesbians are irrational reactions designed to uphold societal norms and shift blame for social problems from their ac­tual sources to outside sources. Mohr stated that "the stereo­type of child molester functions by giving the family unit a false screen of innocence ... and keeps the unit from being examined too closely for child molesta­tion, incest or wife battering." 
Mohr refuted those who ar­gue that homosexuality is im­moral. He argued that social customs and norms are no ba­sis for morality, rather these customs are only descriptive aspects of society. This line of reasoning, according to Mohr, would justify the atrocities of Nazi Germany, for religious persecution was widely ac­cepted under the Nazi regime. 
The Bible makes no moral condemnation of homosexuality according to Mohr. He stated that Christ made no mention of homosexuality, and that Old Testament references need to be examined in the context of ancient times. He said "Sodom and Gomorrah is becoming in­creasingly recognized as a con­demnation of inhospitality." Mohr pointed out that Lot, although he condemned homo­sexuality, participated in inces­tuous rape, but his tacit accep­tance of incest or rape does not morally justify such actions. 
According to Mohr, homosex­uality is not unnatural, rather it is common in nature. He cited the existence of other human societies where homosexuality is actually encouraged as a rite of maturation. Also, he argued that there is no one specific function for any of our organs, and therefore the sole design of our genitals is not procreation. "If the only design of our mouths is for eating, does that mean we should not use it for talking?" asked Mohr. 
Yet all these charges lead to discrimination and persecution against homosexuals, according to Mohr. He said that "the most severe form of abuse towards gays is queerbashing, where attackers will physically beat a gay person, sometimes until they are dead." These attacks, according to Mohr, often go without punishment because of the high levels of animosity towards homosexuals in society, even in courts of law. 
Job discrimination runs ram­pant against homosexuals, said Mohr, as exemplified by the routine discharge of gays and lesbians from military service. These expulsions are clearly examples of discrimination, said Mohr, for no regard is given to the homosexuals actual job performance. 
Some argue that acceptance of gays and lesbians in society will destroy the family unit and eventually society itself. Mohr argued that some states' strong laws protecting homosexuality have disproved that theory. In such states, the protection of homosexuals have in no way eroded the family or society as a whole, according to Mohr. 
America would be a better place if homosexuality were an accepted lifestyle, said Mohr. 
"All gay's and lesbian's ener­gies could be directed towards socially useful purposes, rather than towards fear of persecu­tion," he said. 
Sobering Advice can save alife 
Pleue Support the 
United Way!!! 

Cohn calls for change in gender's role in security 
By JEREMY MANIER emotion. These distinctions in 
News Writer the professional discourse 
serve effectively to exclude a 
whole class of ideas, interests, 
The state of national secu­and meanings from 
rity discourse today is such consideration within the 
that the charge of discipline. 
"wimpishness" represents the Cohn illustrated this sort of 
worst possible criticism, and exclusion with a story that a 
potential national security male physicist once related to 
crises, along with their poten­her. The physicist had once 
tial resolutions, are evaluated been part of a think tank 
only within military terms, which succeeded in revising a 
Carol Cohn said Tuesday. model of a counterforce 
Cohn, a Research Associate attack against military targets 
at the Harvard Medical so that the attack resulted in 
School Department of the deaths of 30 million 
Psychology, spoke in the people, rather than 36 
C.C.E. auditorium at the million. invitation of Professor The unanimous reaction of Kathleen Weigert and the those in the think tank was Hesburgh Center for Peace one of admiring approval at Studies. the new model's superior
Cohn presented a critique of efficiency. When the physicist 
gender, which she described expressed his horror at 
as "the constellation of having coolly accepted 30 
meaning a culture attaches to million deaths, his colleagues 
male-female differences," and responded with dead silence 
the ways in which it and unspoken scorn. "I felt 
constrains discourse within like a woman," the physicist 
the national security would later tell Cohn. 
professional community. Cohn said that the rejection 
experienced by the physicist 
According to Cohn, national in her example is 
security discourse occurs symptomatic of a basic 
within a context of distinct characteristic of national 
oppositions, in which security discourse. Par­
positions and individuals are ticipants in the discourse tend 
judged according to where to censor themselves on the 
they fall within established basis of the extent to which 
definitions of rational and their contributions conform to 
emotional, objective and those masculine traits which 
subjective, deliberative and are associated with value 
impulsive. within the discipline. 
All of these, Cohn argued, The fate of those who do not 
are associated in national censor themselves, Cohn 
security discourse with one explained, is the dreaded 
specific gender -rationality, stigma of wimpishness. "The 
objectivity, and deliberation use of the term 'wimp' is one 
are considered masculine of the most readily available 
traits, whereas emotion, sub­interpretative codes in the 
jectivity, and impulsiveness Pentagon and the national 
are feminine characteristics. security community," she said. 
"Men and women are Once the position of a 
supposed to be like their participant in the discourse 
descriptions in the lists," has been described as 
Cohn said. "wimpy," Cohn explained, the 
Yet both men and women in effect is like "a bath of 
the community, according to sulfuric acid which erases 
Cohn, tend to value everythlflg else in the room." 
characteristics associated Cohn stated that when a 
with masculinity more highly participant in national 
than those which seem to em­security discourse has 
body feminine traits. allowed himself to be 
Appeals to cool-headedness described as "wimpy," he is 
and resolve, for example, are effectively positioned within met more sympathetically the feminine, less valued side than appeals to morality or of the discourse's oppositions. 
Class 

Tenacity can help women and foreigners beat workforce obstacles, Sekaran says 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
News Writer 
Being both a woman and a foreigner makes it difficult to succeed in business, but tenac­ity and competency can over­come any discrimination in the workforce, said Uma Sekaran, an international business scholar. 
Sekaran, speaking at a lec­ture/discussion on international business in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's, discussed her work experiences and difficul­ties in coming to the United States from India for a job. 
Competition for jobs in India was fierce since "there were very few women working in any organization" but Sekaran's in­telligence, and seriousness granted her career advance­ment. Furthermore, she com­mented, "When all is said and done, it is a male-dominated culture everywhere. We have to learn to live with a delicate balance-there is a place for everyone." 
"In 1971, I applied for a visa and came to Manhattan with $3000 in my pocket. I came here thinking that I could get a job as easily as in India-that my success in business would transfer," Sekaran recalled. 
One obstacle she had to over­come was the discrimination against her traditional Indian dress. At Logics International in New York Sekaran was hired for the job but later was asked to change to Western style of clothing. Suited in native attire at the meeting, Sekaran stressed, "I have nothing against how you dress, but I don't want to be told what to wear." 
Sekaran, who works in Women's Advanced Placement at Southern Illinois University, has discovered that outward appearances are not nearly as important as competency. "I don't care what gender, race, or religion you are. If you're competent, it comes through at some stage," she stated. 
Pat Washington, professor of sociology, anthropology, and social studies at Saint Mary's, recognizes competence in Saint Mary's students. 
Washington said that Saint Mary's women in Notre Dame classes are "usually the ones who will challenge a professor, speak out in class, and are assertive" because of their leadership encouragement as women. 
Sekaran has recorded much progress in her department. "I think we have achieved a lot for women on campus. Since 1988, the women graduates have got­ten a considerably higher per­centage increase in salaries than men." 
Being a staunch advocator of female competency, Sekaran said she "would love to teach at Saint Mary's some day." She continued by expressing her concern that students "have a very sheltered life here and don't know what the business world it like." 
Jerry McElroy, professor of economics, agreed. "Our stu­dents don't get the 'real world' experience, but that is where Saint Mary's tradition comes in. From the active alumni, our students have access to them and gain insights into the busi­ness world." 
A ~onsensus was reached by the panel that there are some things that cannot be learned in a classroom. Sekaran stated that especially for women in the business world "sexual ha­rassment is a fact of life." As unfortunate as it may seem, "There is no way to be pre­pared for unpleasant circum­stances." 
Ravi Parashar, from the de­partment of business adminis­tration, said, "I think that one of the greatest things to see in the Saint Mary's women is the growth in self-confidence. With confidence, you can react better under tough situations, like sexual harassment." 
Sekaran's advice to women in the business world is: "Be flexi­ble!" In the rapidly changing market most college students realize that it is to their advan­tage to know what they want out of life, but not always to follow a rigid plan, she said. 
When it comes to international business, flexibility must go even further. Sekaran spoke from experience. "When you go to a foreign country, you need to know all job opportunities, what the requirements are, how many women are there, and how they are treated. Do your homework!" 
Sekaran has degrees from Bombay University, the Univer­sity of Connecticut, and UCLA. She has published seven books and written numerous journal articles. 
The lecture/discussion was brought to Saint Mary's by the Gathering Voices Series. 

Correction "We decided we didn't want look forward to Professor 
to come u~ with real specific O'Hara's response," said 
Due to an error in produc­guidelines, said Student Body Pasin. tion, the following was President Rob Pasin. The O'Hara has the option to ac­omitted from Tuesday's specifics of the policy will be cept or reJect the resolution Observer article on the band determined by the Office of and must mclude reasons for advertising policy: Student Activities, he said. her decision, he said. Her 
If the flyers are consistent Next the CLC's resolution decision is final and the CLC with the University goes to Patricia O'Hara, vice cannot override a veto. Advertisement Policy, DuLac president for student affairs. "The clarification of the page 52, in that they do not She must respond to the reso­band advertising policy is a focus on alcohol, and they do lution within seven days, said perfect example of students not advertise alcohol, only the Pasin. and administrators coop­performance's location, they "Off-campus band perfor­erating through regular use of should be allowed, according mances are an integral part of the Campus Life Council," to the resolution. social life at Notre Dame...l Pasin said. 
One Miami GA Available -Will HELPII am stuck in Pittsburgh and Drummer looking to join a band. The Simpsons is being shown continued from page 1 0 Trade for Two Penn State GAs. need a ride to South Bend for the Open to any type of music. If every Thursday at 7pm in the Miami game. If you can help me interested call Rob: 233·7440. Knights of Columbus building. 
$$$ NEEDED $$$ FOR SALE: MIAMI STUDENT 2 PENN ST. GA"s for 

Call David at 616·695·9826. get to NO by Saturday, please call Everyone is welcome and this 283·2346. week the Knights will be serving TIX. REASONABLE PRICE NO alum. He's got a lot of CALL JOHN X1698 reason why you should sell 
Need ride from St. Paui/Minn Area free ice cream! MARY GARINO IN D.C. to N.D. after Oct. break-
to him!! Hey YOU!!! Need a MIAMI ticket"! 
1. Be good Please call Lisa at x3738 Hey Judy Blue Eyes! 
Call Steve @ x1463 1 stud. tix 4 sale. Call Joe at Two Miami stud tix for sale X4062 2. If you can't be good, be call Mike X1565 1 will pay $280 for your 2 Miami careful 
DO YOU HAVE HIDDEN SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN GA's Call Bob 289-0922 4 SALE: 2 MIAMI STUD TIX, 3. If you can't be.careful, ARTISTIC TALENT THAT YOU'VE 
Miami Tickets 4 Sale (ST) 

ALWAYS WANTED TO SHOW? Call Dalys x4244 MAX OF $50 TO SPEND ON 
I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. HAVE A BEST OFFER . 234-2728 name it after me 
1NI:ED 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR ART EXPO '90 Don't Miss The Final Conflict! EACH. PLEASE CALL DAVE YOUNG ALUMNI AND WIFE I NEED A RIDE BACK FROM invites ALL members of the NO · X1045. THE D.C. AREA AFTER FALL 
COMING IN FROM BOSTON community to sign up for this I NEED a ride to anywhere in CALL 277-9452. BREAK. WILLING TO LEAVE informal exhibit Nov. 5 &6, in the New England for break, PLEASE 
2 NAVY TICKETS TO SELL. CALL HELP!! MUST SELL MIAMI JOHN 703-528-8288. ANY TIME DURING THE WEEK­SUB office from 3-5 pm, or call 
Will help pay gas $$ Need Miami ST Tickets? 
239-7757. Call Dan x3281 Call 271-0852 X2594 $$$ FOR ANY TXS TO MIAMI 
STUD. TIXIII GOOD PRICE! I'LL SPLIT COSTS. CALL GINA 
X4853

After 8.30 PM. GAME GNSTUDENT. H-203-953-SUBLIMINAL MESSAGE ... 
hiag ###############I#####Need 
8571, W-203-677-8556. DR. & MRS. Quinn, KTQ, Boogie, 
NEED BOTH MIAMI AND PENN. Miami GA's Please call Pat at On Thursday night, the band SEA 
& Wiggly: Thanks for a great week­STATE GA's!! PLEASE CALL 
There will be an INVESTMENT 284-4350 ask for Kristin 
#1010. end and for the free grub. Bo MONKEY CONSPIRACY will play CLUB meeting tonight at 7pm "Hold Me Back" Jirikian and the 
################I#### at an establishment that serves
•cALL A.S.A.P.• 
in Rm. 124 Hayes-Healy. All 

rest of the S.O.S. Need Miami Stud & GAs. members are encouraged to 
PERSONALS alcohol (bar) located on Eddy St. 
(Bridget's).
SELLING ONE MIAMI GA. CALL 

Call Man@ 273-1849 attend!
I need a ride to the Twin Cities 
FRANK x1852 •••chelle-Chelle••• 

after Miami!! Will help pay for gas TRADE; have 1 Miami tix; need A beautiful smile, pretty eyes, and tolls. The Anti-Eivis is hereby dubbed: CAROLINE 1 Miami student ticket for sale to
4 Penn state students; Jeff and awesome legs! Yes, Call Bill X2056 SIR TALKS ALOT OF THE Hmmm ... My identity. You know, best l'fter. Chris x3033. 
x3374 Michelle, this one is for you! ROUNDTABLE I've learned there's something to Surprised? Have a great day! be said for not revealing too much
TO MY DASHING BOYFRIEND: 
-Guess Who (heh, heh) HEY ALL YOU MONKEY too soon. Hope you understand.
Thanks for EIGHT happy, 
WANTED: 1 MIAMI TICKET. NEED MIAMI STUDS/GAS BAD 

HEADS!!! Enjoy your year. Always,
cheese-filled months!! 

CALL STEPH 283-4322 PLEASE CALL X3028 $$$$$ Gag Klimczak, go back to Day1on (and I bet you thought I AVID 
Come watch SEA MONKEY 

NOT-SO-WEALTHY ALUM FOR SALE-MIAMI STUD. TICK. where you belong, you schmuck. forgot!) 
CONSPIRACY perform at Bridget's(&GENUINE NO FAN) WILL CALL AFTER 5 -288-9545 Thanks for coming to visit, don't be on Thursday night. It promises to sdgf
PAY FACE FOR YOUR 2 EXTRA a stranger. Love and tongue LOVE, HUGS, AND SMOOCHES, be a strikingly purple, flowing, and PookeyMIAMI TIX 272-3229 NEED MIA GA'S •cALL DAVE kisses, John. 
bald production. Jackie Duden does good perms X1407 
P.S. Tara Abbott is a geek. 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 17, 1990 
page? 


LETTERS 
Urban Plunge exposes realities of homelessness 
Dear Editor: dice, sex, homelessness, drugs, !ems of drug addiction, vio­enough, you could see it per­TAKE THE PLUNGE! The 
llis name was Hobert war, the United States, God and lence, poverty and racial ten­vaded the entire system. Urban Plunge is a 48 hour im­.Jackson, but his friends called alcohol Uust to name a few). I sion that plague the inner city And as long as there continue mersion during Christmas him Bob. I met him the First found out that he was a fifty­of Philadelphia. These symp­to be people and programs like Break into inner city life; it's an night of my plunge iii an one year old veteran of the toms, and more, cry out for a the ones we visited in opportunity to experience con­overnight shelter in west Korean War, a husband, a fa­cure that most of us are unwill­Philadelphia, there will always ditions of poverty, injustice and Philadelphia. I had been ther, a published musician, a ing to administer. However, be hope -whether you see it apathy existing in our cities. playing cards with another suffering alcoholic and a man there are a variety of people through the work of the volun­The registration deadline is Oet. resident -a black man with a without a home. and programs which I became teers and social workers, or 19. Pick up applications at the severe mental illness -when Although I had many valuable aware of that are working for hear it in the voice of a six year Center for Social Concerns, Bob called me over to his experiences during my Urban such a cure. They are the ones old girl screaming "No!" in an­from dorm representatives or mattress. "That's good you've Plunge experience, talking with who take on the responsibility -swer to a question on a board from Campus Ministry. been payin' him some Bob was by far the most pro­what should be an entire na­game about drugs, or find it in Amy Bundens attention," he said. "Don't found. Through him, I saw just tion's responsibility -to try and the eyes of an enlightened alco­Pasquerilla East nobody pay him any respect how shamefully intolerable our turn the malignancies of the in­holic. Oct. 14, 1990 around here. The others, they society's attitude toward the ner city around. just spit on him and call him homeless really is, because, like It is an incredible task, trying Television oversimplifies NO bystupid, as if he wasn't a human Bob, so many of the street peo­to weed through and grab at being. It's a shame ... Thank ple I met suffered from the so­what seems to be very little focusing on crazed leprechaunyou." cietal concept that "homeless" hope for change. But, these 
Dear Editor: up in green velvet clothes is the
I was so touched by his gen­is synonymous with programs do just that, and the 
For yet another season, Notre dream of every undergraduate. 
uine concern for another man "worthless." They are a group potential is there. Working with 
Dame persists in ritual self­Despite his origins as a per­
in a setting that by no means of people in more need of soci­kids in the Catholic Worker's 
humiliation for the sole purpose nicious ethnic stereotype and
nurtured it that I sat down to ety's care than any other, and after school program, I saw just 
of entertaining the sports­his glaring faults as a repre­
listen to what else he had to yet our society views their mere how much potential there really 
crazed masses. As far as the sentative of student sentiment,
say. What followed were three existence as a nuisance. is. But, come to think of it, that 
mass media is concerned -and the leprechaun is continually
hours of commentary on his Along with homelessness, I potential was not only in the 
Notre Dame conspires in presented as the very image of
beliefs about life, love, preju-was also exposed to the prob-youth; if you looked hard fostering this impression -the Notre Dame. The reasons for University is primarily repre­this are obvious -the media's 
sented by one symbol: not the voracious need for an oversim­Golden Dome, the Hesburgh plified visual shorthand, how­Library, or any other manifes­ever distorted or inaceurate. tation of beauty or excellence, Thus, the leprechaun is in­
T-shirt enterprises trivialize the Church 
Dear Editor: seem to feel that the University ridiculous "Convicts vs 
but by the leering visage of a deed a symbol; a symbol of the 
The enthusiasm which seems is naught but another Sears and Catholics" item et a!, probably 
cartoonish and hyperactive University's craven status as the
to have inspired what I hope is Hoebuck or Fretters of a never heard of Martel or 
"leprechaun." willing hostage of the com­
a minority of Notre Dame stu­Highlands. Sobieski. Nor do they 
mercialization of collegiate
dents to produce such puerile One would think that students appreciate the historical signif­
Whether appearing in a state sport, as well as a symbol of
entities as t-shirts bearing the at du Lac would be educated icance of the above illusion. 
of demented rage on the cover television's mindless tendency
expression "Convicts vs enough to realize that there are Nor, would it seem, are they 
of The National or frantically to oversimplify and distort in
Catholics" as well as invitations more important issues in this aware that, in its 2000 year 
cavorting before any available the service of viewer stimula­
to, alwm, "copulate" with the world than such enterprises history, the Holy Homan 
camera during a game, the tion. With this in mind, perhaps
opponent institution, ought to whieh trivialize the Church, its Catholic Apostolic Church has 
leprechaun unfailingly portrays it would be more honest if
bn eondemned by a community mission and this University. had its share of "convicts." In 
to the country an image of a Notre Dame dropped the
so feverishly devoted to "social the wake of the Stanford game, 
student body composed of en­leprechaun and switched in­
coneerns." May I remind said Are these students prepared why not, in preparation for 
tirely crazed fanatics. Though I stead to having its real maseot,
students that, although one ap­to produce t-shirts, for exam­Miami: "Convinced vs Humbled 
am assured that student inter­the NBC peacock, patrol the
preciates their support of the ple, which read: "Arabs vs Catholics"? 
est in personifying this absurd sidelines in a continuous frenzy. 
football enterprise, they should Catholics" signed by Charles James J. Carberry 
figure has fallen to a new low (a 
not be seized by an enthusiasm Martel? Or "Turks vs Catholics" Professor 
trend one can only applaud). Kevin Thornton
whieh is more reflective of the signed by John Sobieski? Of Department ofChemical 
the administration continues to Off-Campus
"merchandising" instincts of course, it's obvious that most of Engineering 
sustain the myth that dressing Oct. 14, 1990
Mr. Hosenthal and others who those who have engineered this Oct. 11, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5MAtL 701J.JN 
/NOH/0. YOU 
NEV&R. HeARl? OF IT. 

I KNtfAJ YOU IA/&R&/117 FRCW1 A BIG {)Tf. YOU CAN AIJIJAYS T&U THe BIG-tflY80YS-SOM&­
7H!NG IN THt WAYTH&Y 
'Calculation never made a hero.' 
Cardinal John Henry Newman Theologian 
Wednesday, October 17, 1990
Viewpoint
page 8 
LETTERS 

Truth provides wholeness that human beings lack 
Dear Editor: of the self. Pride is the central 
"I will never live my life for theme -confidence in one's another man," writes Tim abilities and talents to the point 
Calmeyn (The Observer, Oct. of needing no other, except8}. I would like to respond to maybe another egotist to reas­Calmeyn's agreement with the sure you that yes, it's the world basic philosophical principle as that is skewed in its moral ideal 
put forth by Ayn Rand and the of sacrifice. "objectivist" school of thought. What about those who do not He raises the issues which are 
have excellence the sort of 
at the heart of the question, for which Rand presupposes in her whom do I live my life? followers? Does one only have Rand wrote in this century of to inflate one's ego with one's an ideal character named own hot air to realize that the Howard Rourk, an unpopular world is all wrong in rejecting
architect whose works were 
oneself? 
always rejected by the main­stream contractors. He flunked The ego is all important for out of school, was considered a Rand. Those who call for char­reject of society. Yet, he knew ity, giving or any concern for 
he had an extraordinary pen­others at the least expense of chant for drawing -he had a the self are destroyers of the vision. ego. The enemies are many, the ego lovers are few. To be 
He met one wealthy financier swayed by emotion is giving
who recognized his "genius" away one's rationality, the def­and invested in his works heav­inition of the self, the ego. The ily. The buildings, when "anti-life philosophies" are 
realized at last, were soundly given their steam by this man criticized by the current press. Jesus, the ultimate example of Roark was drawn more and an ego-destroyer. more inward, rejecting society by delving into his own Current abortion jargon
thoughts. notwithstanding. I can say that 
He met a woman who saw I am pro-life. I have come to something special in him. She, quite a rational decision in life duplicitous as she was, still to say the pinnacle in life is the 
loved to be with him, usually in giving of oneself for others. an intimate setting. Together, it Class me in a group with the was them against the world. Nazis and the Communists and 
Nothing else mattered; they de­ARENA and the ANC and anyspised those who had rejected other group that calls for the them, and those critics for the emptying of self for the sake of 
most part tried to be giving in the ultimate Good. Where I and terms of charity. these groups disagree is in defining the Good. Yet Rand Rand paints her critics as gets no further than positinggenerally superficial. Her phi­the self as the only reason for losophy presents altruism as existing. Her philosophy draws 
the greatest evil, as a letting go one into one's self, to the point 
Absence of clinic's name and employees needs explanation 

at which one is so blinded by the self as to not be able to see the truth. 
Calmeyn asks this University to consider this philosophy be­cause of its sincere commitment to the truth. Yet Father Sorin did not trudge with his weary band of French followers thousands of miles from home because he wanted to get the exercise or receive front page headlines in Le Monde. Committed to the truth as he was. he humbly gave of himself for the ultimate cause of others, and erected Mary's image as the ultimate human example of saintliness. Should this University call upon Rand instead of the Gospels, upon Nietzsche instead of Augustine, we would have to raze the esc. all of our social help programs, send the minorities "back to where they came from", etc. The danger and selfishness of the philosophy can be ap­praised quite easily. It is for those who are caught up in this that we fear. 
Rand has inspired "objectivist" clubs around the country, which gather around and talk of how the superficial society is selling themselves short and giving of themselves. There is no humility before the truth -love of ego is the truth for them. 
I once picked up a book by Rand, and, after a period in which it seemed like it was me against the world, was able to identify with this character. That I was open to Rand's thought for any period shows how vulnerable humankind is. Not until I took the eyes off of the self and tried to become truly "objective" did I realize that truth cannot be found in such an imperfection as hu­mankind. Not until I tried to become rationally aware of others did I realize that there is that Truth which is above and beyond ego. 
Call it Ego, God or Love, hu­mankind has realized that it lacks, it needs something to make it whole. There are five billion of us here, and then there is Truth. The mystery of the Cross cannot be explained away so simply. 
Dan Dwyer Sorin Hall Oct. 9, 1990 


Dear Editor: different policy for the local 
Last Wednesday's article "NO abortion clinic and its Students Pray at Second Protest employees. at Local Abortion Clinic" (The Michael Hamilton Observer, Oct. 10} fails to name The Graduate School the clinic at which the students Oct. 10, 1990 protested, and fails to name the clinic's physician quoted in the article. Since the rest of Editor's Note: The name of Wednesday's issue freely names the abortion clinic is the other businesses, institutions Women's Pavilion, located at and individuals involved in 2010 Ironwood Circle. While controversial activities and the clinic's name did not 
making controversial appear in The Observer's Oct. statements, I think The 10 article. it was printed in an Observer ought to explain to Oct. 1 article covering a Sept. 
the community why it has a 28 protest ofthe clinic. 
Selling student tickets fails to show unethical behavior 
Dear Editor: hold an unused ticket when 
I am writing in response to someone else (a sibling, a friend Greg Guffey's article about from another college} would confiscated student tickets (The pay for the opportunity in be in Observer, Oct. 11}. Guffey Notre Dame stadium. claims that those students who sell their tickets are, in a If the University wants to nutshell, "dishonest" and maintain an elitist clientele at immoral. its football games, then fine; 
give the students the tickets 
While I will concede the gratis. However, if the aim is to example of people selling extract currency from the tickets to others and playing student body, then it should down the necessity of having a allow that same student body to student ID for admission is resell tickets. unethical, l do not think that selling one's ticket without false Scalping is not illegal in pretenses is wrong. What is Indiana. Of course, underage "unethical" is that we, as drinking is, but the University students, pay $15,000 a year to seems to have a free. hand in come to this pillar of education deciding which state laws apply in the sea of Midwest to the Notre Dame campus. mediocrity, and the tickets we buy are only for our use. Many Christopher M. Gardner students cannot attend certain Off-Campus games, and it is wasteful to Oct. 11, 1990 

Bloodshed displays Israeli authorities' total disregard of Palestinian human life 
Dear Editor: Palestinians, it seems, the tering the Sacred Mount in an 
Once again, the urgency to Israeli police lower their attempt to lay a foundation for solve the Palestinian question standards of using deadly force. a Jewish Temple on Islam's was emphasized by the spillage The Israeli occupation forces second holiest place. The Israeli of Palestinian blood on the have even greater discrepancy authorities should have hands of the Israeli authorities. when dealing with militant and anticipated some sort of a The killing of 18 Palestinians violent Israeli settlers as violent clash. We should not and the shooting of 140 others opposed to dealing with accept the explanation of the on the Sacred Mount is Palestinian demonstrators. The Minister of Police in Israel that appalling to any person who former are dealt with using the a handful of policemen were values human life. I was utmost concern for human life fighting for their lives. If this is shocked to hear the interview and some sort of a due process the case, why didn't a single on TV with the Minister of of law, while the latter are dealt Israeli die in this sad incident? Police in Israel. He basically with in total disregard for life, stated that a handful of liberty and property. This incident leads one to policemen had to shoot people It would be ludicrous on the wonder, especially due to the throwing stones in an attempt part of the Illinois State Police, repetitive pattern. tP,at the to protect themselves and other for example, not to be prepared Israeli forces, whether police or Jewish civilians. As a law for possible trouble when the army, have utter disregard to enforcement officer myself, I neo-Nazis decided to march Palestinian life. The evacuation found this argument totally through Skokie with its large of illegal Jewish settlements ridiculous and insensitive to the number of Jewish Holocaust from the Sinai by the Israeli value of non-Jewish human life survivors. I agree with army during the first phase in the occupied territories. President Bush that the Israelis implementation of the Camp Need I remind the Israeli police should be more prepared for David Accord brought to our minister that a violent uprising such incidents given the screens violent clashes between had been going on in the deadlock of the existing the Israeli army and militant occupied territories, including situation of occupation in the Jewish settlers that included East Jerusalem, for the last West Bank and Gaza Strip, rock throwing, stick fighting three years? Any authority in especially with its last three with the army, and even some times of trouble should years of violent uprising. The incidents of cocktail bombs. Not strategically man the streets to Korean police have battled one Israeli settler was shot by protect its civilians from the Korean students that threw the Israeli army. rightfully disgruntled citizens of stones, sticks and cocktail We, as Americans, should an occupied nation. The irony bombs on the police, yet the voice our concern for human of the events in Jerusalem is police showed some restraint life everywhere. We should that it was the Israeli police, and deadly force was rarely work actively for the and not the army, that did the used. The Palestinian cocktail establishment of a just peace in shootings. bombs and stones are certainly the Middle East. If such a peace 
The Israeli government not deadlier than the Korean is realized, our national interest considers East Jerusalem and student bombs or rocks. would be safeguarded. its non-Jewish population as In Jerusalem on Oct. 8, ultra­citizens of Israel in principle. nationalist Israelis provoked the Joseph Araman '79 However, when the rioters are Palestinian population by en-Oct. 9, 1990 
Accent 
Wednesday, October 17, 1990 Page 9 
Andrews program celebrates tenth anniversary 
Scholarships allow Notre Dame students to serve others through Summer Service Projects 
cessful businessman and

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
started Universal Press

News Editor 
Syndicate with his friend John McMeel in 1970. The business

"I b«~lieve that several chal­
was started in Andrews' base­

l«~nges remain, and the most 
ment and soon flourished with

important of these is to re­the enormous popularity of
rnembnr the people I have met "Doonesbury" and other news­and tlw things I have learned, paper features.
and to incorporate thmn into a He was the author of a booklife-long attitude of compassion titled The Citizen Christian andand dmlication to the needs of 
he coauthored a book called

tlw less fortunate." 
The Perplnxed Catholic. 

Tlw above quotn is from the Although he was extremelyjournal of Molly McMahon, a busy with UPS and his bookI1JHS Notrn Damn graduate who publishing company, he was a 
SJHHll the summer of 1987 
dedicated husband to his wifeworking at Tlw Cam Center in 

and his two sons, Hugh and

SpringfiPid. Illinois. 
Jim.

Ml'Mahon's proj1~rt was spon­His wife, Kathy, and his busi­
sorPd by the i\ndrews ness partner, John McMeel,
S!'holarship Fund which cele­
both Notre Dame graduates,

hratns its tnnth annivnrsary this wanted to set up a memorialmonth. 
that was fitting of the man, said

Tlw i\ndrews Scholarship 
Dick Conklin, director of Public 

Fund is part of the Summer 
Relations and Information. 

SPrviee Project (SSP) program 
When asked what type ofat the Center for Social memorial they could set up,Concerns. Students elect to 

Conklin said he thought of the spend their summer doing in­Summer Service Project pro­

tf~nsive service work and 
gram which had begun duringrnceiwe a scholarship of $1,400 the summer of 1980. He sug­for their eight-weeks of service. 

gested that a memorial could be 

Typically Notre Dame alumni compiled into a booklet which hand knowledge about the Many alumni families provide
set up to provide scholarships

clubs sponsor students and celebrates the ten years of the Hispanic culture in Los Angeles. lodging for the students or just
for students who wanted to do

provide scholarships. The program. Her summer experience has a place to relax after a difficult 
service work, yet still earn

i\ndrews Fund was set up to aid proven helpful in her career as week. Some students were 
money for tuition during their

alumni dubs that cannot fully 'Today the funds are a pediatrician at Los Angeles adopted by families and treated 
summers.

fund student projects in their Children's ·Hospital. Altergott to vacations and special out­
used to assist alumni 
The next summer the pro­

said she is often more patient ings.
arllll. . 
gram supported four students.

McMahon is one of 184 Notre clubs which cannot fully and understanding with her pa­David Tyndall was grateful for 
Among early donors of the en­tients than other doctors. the

Dame students who have fund student projects in support of Bob and 
dowment were Universal Press

btmflfitted from the i\ndrews As a result of their summer Rosemary Anspach of
Syndicate columnists Abigail their area...' 
Scholarship. which is i\merican projects many students decided Bakersfield, California. While
Van Buren ("Dear Abby"), Mary 

higher education's first schol­Kris Sanders, 1986 Andrews to make service a permanent on his 1989 project, Tyndall
McGrory and "Doonesbury"

arship program for students Scholar, had the opportunity to part of their lives. Several of the was invited to the Anspachs'
cartoonist Garry Trudeau. 

involved in summer service serve as a birthing coach for a students participated in the house twice a week. 
Today the funds are used to

work. young woman. She spent her year-long Holy Cross Associates "Not only did they open up
assist alumni clubs which can. 

summer working at The Care or Jesuit Volunteers Corps their home to me, but they
'Students ... receive a not fully fund student projects Center, a problem pregnancy program. made me feel like a family
in their area, especially new or clinic in Springfield, Ill. Tom Esposito, a 1988 member. They helped me get

scholarship of $1400 for smaller dubs. The scholarships "Well, the day finally came Andrews Scholar, now lives in through the eight weeks by
eight weeks of service.' also give established clubs a 
that I was called over to the Virginia Beach, the site of his providing an outlet to discusschance to expand the number hospital; Karen was in labor. project. A Management the details and problems which Thursday night the 1990 of student volunteers in a given Within what was probably the Information Systems/Psychology were encountered throughouti\ndrews Scholars will get to­summer if projects are avail­fastest and most exciting four major, Esposito always though the project," he wrote. 
g«~ther for a dinner and a Mass able, but funds are not. 
hours of my life, Karen's baby he would enter the business Notre Dame's Andrewsto celebrate and reflect upon The number of students who girl was born. But, what also world after graduation. Scholars program has become atheir summer of service. Those have received Andrews happened during those four • However, his experience model for other universities.
in attendance will hear the ex­Scholarships has grown from hours was a bit less obvious to working with the foster chil­Recently Yale and Stanfordperiences of a few of the 29 four in 1981 to 29 in 1990, for a the others present...All differ­dren at the Department of Universities announced the be­students who benefitted from total of 184. The fund has be­ences were insignificant or, as I Social Service had such an ef­ginnings of programs similar tothe program this year. come a permanent endowment fect on his life that he· decided NO's.
realized later, nonexistent. We
Tht~ i\ndrews Scholarship of over $500,000. 
had given to each other, Karen to seek a career working with 
program was set up in 1980 Upon completion of their children. 'As a result of their 
had shared with me a very spe­
following the premature death projects the students were 
cial moment, and I had been Esposito, a 1990 graduate, summer projects many 
of .James Andrews. a 1961 asked to reflect upon their 
there to giver her support and now works at a crisis home for
alumnus of Notre Dame and summer's work and experir students decided to make
comfort. It was all certainly an runaways, abused children andcofounder of Universal Press ences. In addition, all of the event which I will never forget." troubled teens. This home is service a permanent part Syndkattl (UPS) in Kansas City. Andrews Scholars were asked The students gained much very similar to the site of his
i\ndrews died on October 19, to reflect upon their experi­of their lives.' 
from their summer experiences; SSP.
1980, at the age of 44. ences and evaluate the pro­many said they gained as much Another student was so en­Andrews was a highly sue-gram. Their testimony has been or more from the individuals thusiastic about his 1983 work Yale provides students with they worked with. Michelle at the Cheyenne River $2,000 stipends for their par­Lynch, a 1987 Andrews Scholar. Reservation in South Dakota ticipation in summer service said her experience "enhanced that he decided to move there work across the country. The my understanding of the after graduation. "I was con­program is funded by a special 
importance of reinvesting in vinced to pursue a license for endowment fund along with lo­society those skills and talents foster care and have provided a cal alumni dub support. each one of us acquires through home for a number of boys During the summer of 1989, a 
education and experience." from here.. I also am now similar program was started at 
Lynch volunteered at Camp-A­guardian to one of my former Stanford University, which Lot in San Diego. placements, a 16-year-old offered students $1.300 for Intensive summer experiences Native American boy from this summer servic~t work. give students the opportunity to tribe," wrote Romuald Caroff. Applications for the 1991 learn more about different cul­The impact of the Andrews Summer Service Projects will tures. This knowledge proved program spreads across the be available at the Center for useful to some of the partici-country and beyond. Students Social Concerns in December 
have worked in 36 states, 81 and January. American cities, and one for­
'Students have worked 
eign country. Over 80 alumni Missy Holland, a 1989
in 36 states, 81 American 
clubs have participated in the Andrews Scholar, had the fol­cities, and one foreign program. lowing advice for those inter­The alumni dubs are an inte­ested in participating an SSP:
country.' 
gral part of the program. Club "Go for it! Be prepared to un­-pttnts after graduation. members arrange and evaluate dergo some sort of transfor­
Carrie Altergott spent the project sites and provide finan­mation within. You'll never be summer of 1982 at Regis House cial support for the program. In quite the same. for you'll carryin Los Angeles working with addition, personal contact with the people you meet with youHispanic youth. During her the student is strongly en­wherever you go and whatever project, Altergott gained first-couraged. you do." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 

prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
TV FOR SALE!!! 12-inch, black­ NEED GA TIX FOR MIAMI.  1 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE  I NEED 8 PENN ST. GA's AND  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  and-white, portable television set for sale. Excellent condition.  1-800-323-7687 RANDY. WILL PAY TOP $$$.  BEST OFFER CALL JEN X2687  ALL I HAVE IS $$$ CALL TIM @283-2704  
Make me an offer (trust me, I'm a  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3  VERY reasonable guy). Call x1208 and leave an offer for Paul.  NEED MIAMI GA'S. BIG $$$. CALL 233-4693.  need 2 Miami GAs John, 277­7007  NEED 2 MIAMI GA #2790  
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, summer, J-term,  1/2 baths, 2 family rooms with plenty of room. Professors or mature students welcome. 272­ rt plane ticket SB to Houston leaving 10/19 returning 10/29.  HELP!!! I NEED PENN ST. GA'S· AND STUDS.  FOR SALE  I NEED PENN STATE TIX $$$ 4-STUD & 2-GA 273-9077  
Graduate and Internship  8939.  $120! call284-4094. must be  PLEASE CALL JOHN X2352  50 yd. line stud. ticket  
programs. All run under $6000.  female.  X2384  for THE MIAMI game ! I !  Need Miami student tix. badly !  
Curtin University. 1-800-878-3696. NOW OPEN/ BED & BREAKFAST  an attractive studio in lovely old mansion near ND ,255 plus deposit ;please call 2888595 d  Call John @ X3895  Call Paul at x1755 Sale 4 Miami Stud x1290  
Rooms available for all N/D events. IDEAL for family/ fans/ business associates  1 BDRM. EFFICIENCY APT. $160/MO. CLOSE TO ND. 702 HILL ST. 277-0873.  TICKETS  !!II HAVE 2 MIAMI STUD TIX !!!!  
from out-of-town. Minutes  
from N/D & toll road exit #83.  STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  --BEST OFFER-­ *#%@#$%  I need 2 or 3 MIAMI GA's!!  
219-273-038811-800-669­ AVAILABLE NOW  GAMES.272-6306  MIAMI STUD. TIX FOR SALE!!!  call Kathleen @ 4081  
0388  271-1833 AFTER 8PM  • Brian 3810 •  call Eric x1575  
HELP! This means YOU. I need  btwn 12:00-3:00  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING  TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE?  two GA's for Miami game. Will pay  after 11:00  1 pair Miami married stud. tix for  
237-1949  MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND  $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or  BEST OFFER!!!  sale.  
BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK  hotel reservations for any game.  FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TIK  *#%@#$%  GOOD AS GA'S.  
JUST SAY NO!  CALL JANE 271-1920  Amy 1289.  CALL-JIM 288-2743  273-9349  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's  2 MIAMI STUD TICKETS  
Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233-2342  NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure apts: 1 bdrm-$275  HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay$$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1 055  MIAMI STU. TIX 4 SALE  CALL WITH OFFER x2499  I need 2 Miami GA's !!!!!!!!!! and 1 Miami student ticket, call Allison, 2732  
Gay, lesbian, and bisexual  3 bdrm-$380  KATHY X2567  
discussion group for faculty, staff, and grad students.  dep., references 616-483-9572.  Need:  NEED MIAMI GA'S AND STUD.  NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL  SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TIX -CALL JOHN X1736  
Wednesday, 17 October, 7 p.m. Call Dennis, 234-4708 for more  FOR SALE  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES I  PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-9338  TOM 273-0302  
information.  I have 1 MIAMI stud. ticket to sell - AAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!  
I NEED A RIDE TO D.C. AREA FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. CALL INGO AT 289-4860  This is. the tape . you have been hear1ng !lllabou~ ®sang Parodye "Catholics Kill Convicts"  CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30 TOP $for Your Ga tix to all home  call Chrissy x3958 -leave a message and phone # 1 Miami student tik. for sale call me at 3213, we'll make adeal. 3213  MIAMI AND PENN ST. STUDS 4 SALE! CALL NOW X2546 SELLING 2 MIAMI STD. 1 PENN CALL LUIS 273-1528  I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS WAYBAD!I I'LL BE YOUR BEST FRIEND AND GIVE YOU MONEY!! 272-1981 OR X1879  
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS  To get your copy. call now  garnes call 277-9357  
UNIVERSITY TEACHING  271-9482  Patty  MIAMI AND PENN STUD TICS  Yes, I have MIAMI GA'S for sale  
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST  4 sale  AVAILABLE. CALL JOE @289­ !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
STUDENTS IN ECON  ND GRAD and wife from Calif.  1 Sr. Miami stud ticket  1769  x3760  
,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153  NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami  3375 Jim  
O'HARE to NWRK  Game. Call Collect (818) 591­ 2 MIAMI & PENN ST TIX FOR  
LOST/FOUND  Sun 10/21 7pm $100 Dave #1100  2625.  SALE 272-6459  Interested in going to the Tennessee game??  
Need 2 GA's for Penn St  For Sale! 2 Miami GAs  
RED..*RED*..RED***RED***  call Ryan x1048  or  I need Miami Ga's!!  Call for information about a bus  
jacket lost at stanford barn dance ... also  FOR SALE: THREE MIAMI SENIOR STUDENT TIXS-40 YD  1 student Call Andy @ 1563  HELP and call 288-0597  trip from South Bend that includes: transportation, hotel and  
RED ground grafic piece from RED car in D-2 lot... PRETTY PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN  LINE!!!!!!!!!!I!I!I!I! WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER BY THURS(10/18). CALL DAVE OR MARK X1219  FOR SALE: 4 Student and 2 Married Student Miami Tix  need 4 Penn. St. GAs  I WILL PAY YOU LOTS OF MONEY FOR 4 PENN ST. GA's.  TICKETS. Call Beth at 288-0597 for details  
THEM II! X-4096  BIG MONEY.  CALL FLO x1696  
ask for PAULA.  FOR SALE  DAVE X3024  Rob 259-3268  It Really Hurts To Do This  
LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. If found, please call Rene 277-9468. Reward offered.  One way plane ticket to NYC Thursday 10/25 $50­return ride to ND available Sunday 10/28. Call Kevin 273-1956  FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home games.  NEED TICKETS FORND-PITI x3684  2 MIDFIELD SEATS -ND-USC. (213) 273-9400, ROSLYN. •••• SELLING •••• 2 MIAMI TICKETS: Two  but when it comes right down to it, we need the money to go home more than we need our two miami student tickets.  
Call Joe X1688  2GA'S FOR SALE FOR MIAMI.  married student tickets on  If interested, we'll be taking the  
FOUND! blue nike nylon jacket in o'shag computer lab. call x1511 to claim\  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­ Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI,  BEST OFFER BY 10/19. CALL #2745 LEAVE OFFER.  40yrd. line. Call 282-9399, leave name, #, and offer by 10-19-1990.  best offer by 1 0/17 Jeanne *3619  
1364  PENN STATE TICKETS  
LOST:FRESHWATER PEARL  CALL 234-7644  MIAMI and Penn State tickets  I NEED MIAMI GA'S  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR MIAMI  
BRACELET WITH GOLD BEADS.  FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Tix  (student) For Sale 287-5003  CALL TIM AT 1416  CHRIS x1067  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL  call X 1346  AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR  Call by thursday  
TERRI239-5812  SALE X1511  Need MIAMI GAs. Please call  Need a Miami stud. tik soon?  
87 Fiero GT, loaded, mint end,  Darrell at 283-3302.  Let's talk. X1899 Mike  
I LOST MY HP28C CALCULATOR  org. owner, black, $7900/b.o.  NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND  HAVE: MIAMI STUD  
ON FRIDAY THE 28TH OR SO.  273-9349  PSU STUD. CALL 1511  NEED: 2 PENN ST. GA's  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  
HELP! I'M AN ENGINEER AND I'M  Call MARK@ 4125  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  I NEED 4 MIAMI GAs  
FLUNKING WITHOUT MY  FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs  We have tickets to all  CALL 273-1364  Call Matt #2052  
CALCULATOR. MY NAME  Sam X1726  HOME games ! I  
"STAGER" IS ON IT. REWARD $$.  Need 4 std. GA's for Miami.  $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS  NEED MIAMI GAs JOE X1761  
CALL DON 283-2173.  FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs  call Estevan or Ritchie  Should be in groups of 2 or 4.  3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL  
Sam X1726  @ 2275  Ph. 233-2651.  PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609.  for sale MIAMI stud tix  
Lost: Gold chain and cross  call andrew 1307  
shaped medal. Please call Brian x3001.  FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs Sam X1726  THIS IS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY ­ MIAMI STUDENT TIX FOR SALE CALL X2911 OR X2915  NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!  Will trade Penn St GA's for  
HELP THE NEEDY ­ W/OFFER  JUST WON THE LOTIERY-- Tenn. GA's Tim X3515  
WANTED  FOR SALE: Stu. Tix for MIAMI call DIEGO #4075  NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud HAVE MERCY!!!  HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC  I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!!  6 Miami GS's Best offer by  
MIKI 284-4386  CHRIS X3482  10/18 call273-1364  
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries,  For Sale, Cheap Plane Ticket to FLORIDA, for Fall Break, Call Vince 1396  Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami  4 SALE:  PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE CALL CATHY AT 273-9624  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI Stud Ticket  
Corona Del Mar CA 92625.  STUD EJ x1053  MIAMIGA'S  Best Offer by 10/18  
MIAMI STUDENTS  Wealthy Alumni  Tim x3015 7:30-? PM  
Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340.  Round-trip ticket to San Jose leaving 10/19, returning 10/29 $250/ x3958-leave a message  SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET --{;all LuAnn X4 766  X1167 MIAMI STUD FOR SALEI CALL DAN X3328  Desparately Need Miami Tix Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$  A CORPORATE PROBLEM. NEED 9 GA'S FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY $$$. 1-262-4990.  
NEEDED: Ride to/from Dallas  0 SAY CAN YOU SEE  
for break. Will help pay for gas. Diane x5468  2 MIAMI-PENN (ST) 4 THEE #1619 & ASK FOR LEE  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI ROSIE4025  I NEED MIAMI & PENN ST GA'S  I Need PSU GA's Call Beth 288-0597  I CAN'T PAY HIGH SCUMMY SCALPER PRICES, BUT CAN  
BRIAN 2049  AFFORD A FAIR $40 PER  
- WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St.,  EXECUTIVE COUNTRY  ALUMNUS NEEDS 5 MIAMI GA'S  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S  TICKET FOR G.A'S FROM A  
4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364  RETREAT, 4 BR, 2400 SF on 3.6 acre +  FOR FAMILY. Call collect at night 601-362-2339 or  NEED MIAMI TIX  CALL X3797  DESCENT PERSON. CALL 272 9602 AFTER 7:00-JEFF  
College Students: Earn up to $500/week between or after classes, stuffing envelopes.  pond. $123,900. RE/MAX 1 00 Realty 255-5858. Mary Jo Shively 277-2279.  X3140 for questions. 2 MIAMI STUD TIX FOR SALE  CALL2210  NEED PITISBURGH GA's  MIAMI STUD. TICKET BEST OFFER CALL 287-8793  
Don't Delay. For info: Send  CALL JACKIE OR PAULA AT  Selling  CALL MATI #1159  
SASE to DAWalker P.O. Box  FOR SALE LOVELY  277-9406  2 Stu Miami Tixs  4SALE  
14245, Washington D.C.,  TOWNHOUSE IN FARMINGTON.  255-5283  2 MIAMI STUD  
20044-4245  1843' of formal living, plus 1468' finished in basement. 3 bedrooms,  ROUND-TRIP AMERICAN AIRLINES TICKET (EXP. 12/14/90  SELL-3 Sid Tix  Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at 283-1818 and leave a message.  BEST OFFER #4635  
Make Money Watching T.V.! EXCITING new method. Amazing  2-1/2 baths, First Floor Master Suite. 2 Car Alt. Gar. 10 mins from  AND NOT GOOD T.G. WEEK) BEST OFFER. 259-7820.  MIAMI call287-9763  I NeEd MiAmi StUd  
24 hour recorded message reveals details. Call512-585-4808 Ext.  Campus. Call for private showing ...Noreen  Miami Student ticket for sale Best offer by 6pm Wed.  Call ToBy 4010  I need Miami tix! Tim 271-8795  
101.  O'Brien-Ladewski 234-5429.  I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's!  272-5643  I NEED MIAMI AND PITI TIX  
HELP! I need ride to PITI after  RE/MAX 1 00 -255-5858.  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE\ My parents will pay substancial  FOR SALE:  CALL PAT 234-8608  Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom  
Miami $ JoAnne 1275  You don't need I.D. to Games I  amounts of cash. Call Marc at  1 MIAMI STUDENT TIC. 288­ MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE!  x1581. Will beat any offer.  
Sale: 2 Miami Married stu. Tix  x1809.  5859, 7-8 AM+ EVENINGS.  Divorced Alum Dad in Houston  
NEED RIDE TO PHILLY!  1 Penn State married Tix.Call:  has plane, car, and hotel. Need  
X3191 Juan  271-9059 Sale I Making a deal  Selling 2 Miami stud together. Best offer by Wed 6PM. Call Sean  MIAMI STUDENT TIX CALL 288-2956  Miami Tix for GAME on son's 12th Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only  I need Miami Student tix.!!!! Call Lloyd 287-2218  
Wanted: Keyboard player for  @ 3068.  need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­ 
N.D. hockey games. Please call 239-5227 . .... .... -­ 7604 after 7.  see CLASS/ page 6  

-~-~­
----~­

Wednesday, October 17, 1990 The Observer 
page 11 
~--
Holtz adds that he has com­plete confidence in Darnell, and

Defense 
says all of his coaches are doing 

continued from page 16 a fine job. Notre Dame has been outstand­ing up front at times, the sec­••• ondary has not held its own to Holtz says that the expecta­date. This has created some tions of Irish fans have changed diseontinuity in the defense, and tremendously since he became it will be a challenge for coach in 1986. Darnnll, who took over this year for Barry Alvarez, to make it all "When I first came here they 
come together. said 'just be competitive,' " 
"I don't think there's any Holtz says with tongue planted doubt any time you have a firmly in cheek. "The first year coaching change that there's we were competitive, and I real­always going to be adjust­ized they must not have meant nwnts," Holtz says. what they said. What they really 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI "':z:
-

IT. tJ~ 
:s 
.. 'Vf1lJ 
cUss\ 
ClASS OF '94 • MONDAY • OG 15 
ClASS OF '93 • TUESDAY • OG 16 
ClASS OF '92 • WEDNESDAY • OG 17 
ClASS OF '91 • THURSDAY • OG 18 
All ClASSES • FRIDAY • OG 19 
EVERYONE • SATURDAY • 00 20 

AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO DESK. BOOKSTORE, THE PRO SHOP, AND GSU OFFICE 
wanted to do was win. They wanted to win and go to a bowl game, wanted to play on Jan­uary 1. The second year we did that, and then again I found out that this wasn't really what they meant. 
"What they meant was they wanted to win them all, and just let us win it all one time and we did that and I found out that wasn't really what they meant, what they meant was win them all, all the time. And after we did that, that wasn't good enough, they wanted to win big." 
Howard 
continued from page 16 
friend says there was some­
thing about Howard Hall in the 
Chicago Tribune," recalled 
Kolodziej. "I picked my tray 
right up and ran back to my 
room, and there was a little 
story about it. Since then, there 
have been calls from all kinds 
of papers, and it's been kind of 
fun." 

Fun, but the stories were in­
correct. All the papers claimed 
the autograph read, "Best 
wishes to all my fans... " The 
true signature read, "To my 
fans in Howard Hall-Best of 
Luck," signed, "Howard Hall." 
Before the Tribune had it, 
Clemson's weekly sports 
magazine (similar to Notre 
Dame's Blue & Gold Illustrated) 
ran a short blurb about it. 
Kolodziej also said newspapers 
such as the Atlanta Journal 
and Los Angles Times had 
WEAR IT WITH CLASS! 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team will be conducting a football concession stand this weekend in front of Dillon Hall. They will be selling food, "The Cause" t-shirts, as well as their own team t-shirts. 
Irish Insanity will hold an officer's meeting in room 304 St. Edward's Hall tonight at 7 p.m. 
"Walk-Away" -The walk on Thursday, Oct. 18th will be led by Dr. Kate Halischak, Special Assistant to Father Beauchamp and Head Academic Advisor. Everyone is invited to spend 30 minutes walking and talking with Dr, Halischak beginning at 
Washington Hall. 
news snippets. Even the mighty Sports Illustrated included a paragraph on it. 
In Howard's next interhall football game, CBS turned up to televise parts of it and include it in a Saturday pregame show for one of CBS's featured games. 
"I thought the whole thing was a cute idea and a lot of fun, but I never had any idea it would skyrocket," said Kolodziej. 
Having received word that CBS would be at the game, Howard had an unusually large amount of spectators. The game was against Lyons, and at the time Howard's record was 1-1. 
Six particularly devoted Howard (or national television) fans came to the game wearing t-shirts that, when put together in a line, spelled H-0-W-A-R-D. On the backs of the shirts, four together spelled H-A-L-L. Two particularly maniacal fans, Bob McAuliffe and Mike "Doyle" Ol­son, ran about, parading an eye-straining banner that read "HOWARD CHICKS RULE." 
Howard won. 
The disappointing note to this 
story is that the CBS represen­tative told Kolodziej that the network ran the sequence on Howard Hall in last Saturday's pregame show, without telling Kolodziej. They will, however, send her a tape. 
Mter the game against Lyons, Kolodziej and her friends were interviewed by a CBS television reporter. 
"With the camera coming and the interview, it was by far one of the best games we've played," says Kolodziej. "We've played well ever since." 
Howard is now 4-1 and going to the playoffs. The week after it beat Lyons, it played Off­Campus and pulled ofT another tough victory. 
The South Carolina Howard 
Hall is proud of his fan club. 
"I hope that my little picture­party motivated them," said Hall, who also sent the team 100 sticker-patches of the Clemson Tiger claw. "I'm happy to hear they're winning. Tell them good luck and I hope they go all the way." 
Now that the nation knows 
about this little episode, maybe 
more Howard Hall football 
players will step forward to 
claim their portion of the 
Howard Hall fan club. 
DELOIITE & TOUCHE 
WIU BE HOSTING A RECEPTION TONIGHT FROM 6:00PM TO 8:00PM IN THE ALUMNISENIOR CLUB. 
AU STUDENTS WHO ARE ON OUR INTERVIEW SCHEDULES FOR THURSDAYAND FRIDAYARE INVITED TO STOP BYAND MEET WITH VARIOUS PEOPLE FROM OUR STAFFIN ANINFORMAL SEITING. (AITIRE IS BUSINESS CASUAL) 
WE LOOK FOWARD TO SEEING YOU THERE! 
·­

---~---------------­
was the first time all year we put together some good drives." 
Cavanaugh had its chances. On its opening possession, it drove to the Stud six, where Wally Crapps fumbled. On fourth-and-goal inside the Stanford one in the third, Chris 
--~ 
..... 
IH 
continued from page 16 
zone. Beiter added the PAT. 
"The key to the game was a well-executed offense," said Studs coach Sean Gilboy. "It 
The playoff situation 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
The playoff format for men's interhall football remains the same as last year's, with the top two teams from each league making the postseason. NVA had discussed the possibility of adding extra wild­card qualifiers, but rejected the idea. 
"We decided against granting wild-cards because there are just not enough teams in any one division to justify doing so," said Lloyd Cochran, stu­dent supervisor of men's foot­ball at NVA. "We are afraid, if we have wild-cards, we may end up having a team with a losing record making the playoffs." 
Only the second-place teams from the Leahy and Parseghian Leagues have yet to be deter­mined. Here is a look at the teams still in the hunt, and their prospects: 
LEAHY 
Keenan (1-1-1): The Knights must beat Alumni, and then have Stanford either lose to Zahm or win by 12 points less than Keenan's margin over the Dogs. 

Stanford (1-1-1): The Studs need Keenan to lose for a real­istic chance at earning a berth. If Keenan loses, Stanford must defeat Zahm. If the Knights win, Stanford must by 13+ points more than Keenan beats Alumni. 
Zahm (1-2): If Alumni beats Keenan, and Zahm beats Stan­ford, Zahm is in. 
PARSEGHIAN 

Off-Campus (2-1): A win over Dillon clinches a playoff spot. If the Crime lose to the Big Red, it must be by six or less points, and Flanner must beat Morris­sey so that OfT-Campus wins a three-way tie-breaker on point differentials. 
Dillon (1-2): A win over the Crime by seven or more points clinches the Big Red a berth. A victory margin of six or less points on Wednesday means Morrissey must beat Planner on Thursday for Dillon to advance. 
Fox was stopped an inch from the goal line. Cavanaugh's points came on a safety when Stanford was called for clipping in the end zone. 
"We did everything we were supposed to except put it in," said coach Ken Cotter. "We got the ball twice inside their 10 .. 
and just couldn't convert." 
Zahm defeated Keenan 8-6 in the other Leahy contest. With the Knights' loss, Alumni clinched the Leahy champi­onship. 
Zahm scored after Pete Knight's fumble at the Keenan eight. Knight caught the swing pass from Mike Maier, and while fighting for extra yards, was gang-tackled and the ball popped loose. Pat McAndrew recovered for Zahm, and two plays later, Matt Lahey's five­yard completion to Paul Kell and Matt Seng's two-point con­version made it 8-0. 
Keenan took the ensuing kickoff and answered Zahm's score with one of its own. Dave Deltoro ran six yards for the touchdown. Going for two, Del­tore was stopped at the line of scrimmage. Refusing to give up, he pitched back to Maier, who ran around right end, but was brought down just outside the end zone. 
"I think the key was being ahead in the game and stopping them on the two-point conver­sion," said Zahm coach Dan Stopar. "They had to come from behind, and we were able to 
Scoreboard 
prepare and adjust for it at 
halftime." 
ROCKNE LEAGUE 
Sorin clinched the Rockne championship with a 6-3 victory over Pangborn. The Violence scored first as they took the opening kickoff down to the Otter 10. After a clipping penalty was called on Pangborn on first down, the Otter defense held, and John Jacobs kicked a 38-yard field goal. 
Sorin came back and scored on the opening drive of the sec­ond half when Kevin Kramer completed a 45-yard touch­down pass to Vic Lombardi. The Otter defense then took over to preserve the victory. 
"There's a definite excitement in making the playoffs," said Otter coach Kramer, "but there is also a disappointment in how we played the last two weeks. We're definitely good enough to go all the way, but we just haven't played well." 
"My goal now is to get the freshmen some experience," said Violence coach Rob Thom­son. He especially praised the efforts of freshmen center John O'Rourke, quarterback Justin Sage, and tailback Paul Zachlin. Thomson feels that if the 14 freshmen keep improving, by the time they're seniors, they'll be top contenders for the inter­hall championship. 
Fisher earnerl the Rockne League's second-place berth by coming from behind and defeat­ing St. Edward's 17-15. St. Ed's scored first on Bill Hozel's 10­yard run in the first quarter; Kevin Huie added the PAT. 
Right before halftime, the Green Wave struck back. They drove 70 yards, capping it off when Rick Ebert found Renzy Smith in the back left corner of the end zone from 20 yards out to make the halftime score 7-6. 
Fisher quickly went ahead 14-7 after halftime. Ebert scrambled 35 yards on the first play of the half, and on the next play, Mitch Green took a pitch, swept right, cut back against the grain and sprinted 30 yards for the touchdown. Ebert threw to Green for the two-point con­version. 
St. Edward's retook the lead when it stopped Ebert's fake punt attempt at the Green Wave 
40. Erik Marsh finished the drive with a five-yard run, and after Mike Musty's PAT run, St Ed's led 15-14 with 5:00 left. 
Fisher then drove from its own 20 after an unsportsman­like conduct penalty, keyed by a 20-yard run by Gene Richards and two Ebert-to-Smith con­nections. to the St. Edward's 15. With eight seconds left, Dan McGahn's 31-yard field goal try against the wind barely cleared the crossbar. and Fisher had the victory. 
"Even with our loss to Sorin," said Green Wave coach Ebert, "overall it's been a pretty fun season, and I'm glad it's not over yet." 

WORLD SERIES BOXSCORES  MEN'S INTERHALL FB  NHL STANDINGS  
OAKLAND RHndsn If McGee cf Canseco rf McGwir 1b  ab 5 5 2 3  r 0 0 0 0  h 3 1 0 0  rbl 0 0 0 0  CINCINNATI ab Larkin ss 4 Hatcher cf 3 ONeill rf 2 Davis If 4  r 1 3 2  h 0 3 0 2  rbl 0 1 1 3  Rockne League x-Sorin y·Fisher Carroll St. Edward's Pangborn Sunday, Oct. 14 Sorin 6 Pangborn 3  3-0 3-1 1-1-1 0-2-l 0-3  Leahy League x· Alumni 3-0 Keenan 1-1-1 Stanford 1-1-1 Zahm 1-2 Cavanaugh 1-3 Sunday, Oct. 14 Stanford 10 Cavanaugh 2  All Times EDT WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division W NY Rangers 4 Philadelphia 4 New Jersey 3  L 2 2 2  T 0 0  Pis 8 8 7  
Lansfrd 3b Steinbch c Rndlph 2b Gallego ss Stewart p  4 4 4 4 1  0 0 0 0 0  2 1 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  Morris 1b Sabo 3b Oliver c Duncan 2b Rijo p  4 3 4 3 3  0 0 0 0 0  1  0 2 0 0 0  Fisher 17 St. Edward's 15 Wednesday, Oct. 17 Sorin v. Carroll 8 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 18 Pangborn v. St. Edward's 9 p.m.  Zahm 8 Keenan 6 Wednesday, Oct. 17 Keenan v. Alumni 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 18 Zahm v. Stanford 8 ?.m.  Pittsburgh NY Islanders Washington Adams Division Boston  3 2 2 4  3 3 4  0 0 0 1  6 4 4 9  
- Jenngs ph  1  0  1  0  Dibble p  0  0  0  0  Parseghian League  Hartford  3  2  2  8  
Burns p Nelson p Hassey ph Sandrsn p Eckersly p  0 0 1 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  Bnzngr ph Myers p  1 0  0 0  0 0  0 0  x-Grace Off-Campus Dillon Flanner Morrissey Sunday, Oct. 14  4·0 2-1 1-2 1-2 0-3  Montreal 3 Quebec 2 Buffalo 0 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division  2 2 3  1 3 2  7 7 2  
DHdsn ph  1  0  0  0  Grace 21 Flanner 0  W  L  T  Pts  
Totals  35  0  9  0  Totals  31  7  10  7  Dillon 10 Morrissey 7  Chicago  4  3  o  8  
Wednesday, Oct. 17  Detroit  3  2  2  8  
Oakland 000 000 OO()-{) Cincinnati 202 030 oox-7 E-Gallego. DP--Dakland 2, Cincinnati 1. LOB--{)akland 11, Cincinnati 6. 28-RHenderson 2, Hatcher 2. HR-Davis (1). 58-McGee (1), Lansford (1).  Dillon v. Off-Campus 9 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 18 Morrissey v. FlannE"r 7 p.m. All games at Cartier Field x-clinched league title  St. Louis Minnesota Toronto Smythe Division  3 1 0  3 4 4  o  6 3  
y-clinched playoff spot  Los Angeles  4  1  9  
IP  H  R  ER  BB  so  Calgary  4  2  0  8  
Oakland Stewart L, 0-1  4  3  4  4  4  3  WOMEN'S INTERHALL FB  Vancouver Edmonton  3 1  2 2  0 2  6 4  
Burns  2-3  4  3  3  0  Gold  Blue  Winnipeg  5  3  
Nelson Sanderson  11-3 1  2 1  0 0  0 0  0  0 0  x-Breen-Phillips y·Howarrd  5-0 4-1  x·Farley y·Lewis  4-1 4-1  Tuesday's Games Chicago 3,  Detroit 2  
Eckersley  0  0  0  0  y.Off-Campus  3-2  y·P.W.  3-2  N.Y. Islanders 4, Winnipeg 1  
Cincinnati Rijo W, 1-0 Dibble Myers WP-Dibble.  7  7  0 0 0  0 0 0  2 0  5 0 2  y-Lyons 2-3 Badin 1-4 Walsh o-s Sunday, Oct. 14 Breen-Phillips 6 Lyons 0 Howard 22 Walsh 14  y-P.E. 2-3 Knott 1-4 Siegfried 1-4 Sunday, Oct. 14 Farley 6 Siegfried 0 OT P.W. 20 Knott 6  Philadelphia 5, Pittsburgh 1 Hartford 1 , Quebec 1 , tie St. Louis 5, Edmonton 2 Wednesday's Games Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m.  
Umpires-Home, Pulli (NL); First, Roe (AL); Second, Quick (NL); Third, Hendry  Tuesday, Oct. 16  Lewis 13 P.E. 6  Winnipeg at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m.  
(AL); Left, Marsh (NL); Right,  Barnett (AL).  Off-Campus 14 Badin 0  End of regular season  Hartford at Toronto, 7:35 p.m.  
T-2:38. A-55,830.  Washington at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m.  
NFL LEADERS  Minnesota at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Boston at Vancouver. 10:35 p.m.  
Thursday's  Games  
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE  NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE  Montreal  at  Detroit, 7:35 p.m.  
Quarterbacks  Quarterbacks  Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m.  
All  Com  Yds  TO  lnt  All  Com  Yds  TO  lnt  Toronto at Chicago. 8:35 p.m.  
Schroeder, LA  124  72  1159  7  2  Simms, Giants  117  73  1010  8  1  St. Louis at Calgary, 9:35 p.m.  
Moon, Hou. Krieg, Sea.  . 251 164  150 107  1904 1294  16 7  9 6  Montana, S.F. Testaverde, T.B.  199 130  131 79  1792 1193  14 8  5 2  SPORTS CALENDAR  
OsBerg, K.C.  177  94  1375  8  3  Everett, Rams  177  97  1428  11  4  
O'Brien, Jets Esiason, Gin.  173 179  98 105  1265 1471  4 11  2 10  Miller, All. Harbaugh, Chi.  177 110  103 69  1415 877  9 5  4 3  Wednesday, Oct. 17 no sports scheduled  
-·  Rushers  All  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  Rushers  All  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  Thursday, Oct. 18 no sports scheduled  
Humphrey, Den. Butts, S.D.  109 105  568 505  5.2 4.8  37 42  4 3  Anderson, Chi. B.Sanders, Del.  105 98  493 452  4.7 4.6  52 24  6 5  Friday, Oct. 19 Men's soccer v. Xavier 7:30p.m.  
Okoye, K.C. Thomas, Buff. Fenner, Sea. Stephens, N.E. Smith, Mia.  134 74 82 81 72  484 424 357 319 302  3.6 5.7 4.4 3.9 4.2  32 60 28 22 27  4 7 5  Johnson, Phoe. G.Anderson, T.B. Byner, Wash. E.Smith, Dall.  93 95 69 72  423 403 299 273  4.5 4.2 4.3 3.8  35 22 16 16  2 3 1 3  Saturday, Oct. 20 Men's football v. Miami, Fla. 2:30 p.m. Women's soccer v. Calvin College 10:00 a.m. Men's cross country v. William & Mary 10:30 a.m.  
Recalvers  Receivers  NO  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  TRANSACTIONS  
Williams, Sea. Hill, Hou. Givins, Hou. Jeffires, Hou. Fernandez, LA  NO 32 31 30 29 28  Yds 264 433 477 315 522  Avg 8.3 14.0 15.9 10.9 18.6  LG 30 33 80 35 66  TO 0 3 5 2 3  Rison, All. Rice, S.F. Byars, Phil. Ellard, Rams Sharpe, G.B. H.Jones, Minn.  38 35 33 27 27 27  549 574 336 460 446 443  14.4 16.4 10.2 17.0 16.5 16.4  175 42 25 150 176 42  6 8 0 2 1 3  FOOTBALL National Football League INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Agreed to contract terms with Joe Ferguson, quarterback. Waived Ken Clark, running back. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Traded Vann  
Johnson, Den. Touchdowns Fenner, Sea. Brooks, Gin. Givins, Hou. Green, Pitt. Smith, Mia.  28 TO 8 5 5 5 5  451 Rush 7 1 0 0 5  16.1 Rec 1 4 5 5 0  49 Ret 0 0 0 0 0  0 Pts 48 30 30 30 30  Touchdowns Anderson, Chi. Rice, S.F. B.Sanders, Det. Rison, All. G.Anderson, T.B.  TO 8 8 7 6 5  Rush 6 0 5 0 3  Rec 2 8 2 6 2  Ret 0 0 0 0 0  Pts 48 48 42 36 30  McElroy, safety, to the Seattle Seahawks for an undisclosed draft pick. PHOENIX CARDINALS-Traded David Galloway, defensive end, to the Denver Broncos for an undisclosed draft pick. Released Reggie McKenzie, linebacker, from injured reserve. Re-signed Amod Field, wide receiver, to the practice roster.  

Wednesday, October 17, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Awards 
continued from page 16 
A's, having their offensive support and bullpen to back him. Dave Stewart (22-11, 2.56) once again is victimized by hav­ing a great year, yet not the best year among all AL pitchers. Dennis Eckersley (4-2, 0.61, 48 saves) had another excellent season, but was not the best rnliever in the league. 
The competition comes down to two non-Oakland pitchers, Hoger Clemens (21-6, 1.93, 209 SO) of Boston and Bobby Thigpen (4-6, 1.83, major league record 57 saves) of the White Sox. The determining factor in my choice is that Thig­pen's season was record­breaking, one-of-a-kind, while Clemens' was outstanding, but almost expected of him by HOW; because of his greatness, the extraordinary becomes somewhat ordinary. So, my pick is Thigpen. CY YOUNG TOP 10: 
1. Thigpen 2. Clemens 3. Welch 
4. Stewart 5. Eckersley 6. Dave Steib, Toronto 7. Chuck Finley, · California 8. Erik Hanson, Seattle 9. Doug Jones, Cleveland 
10. Kevin Appier, Kansas City. 
ROOKIE OF THE YEAR: Kansas City's Kevin Appier (12­8, 2.76 ERA [fourth in the AL]) wins my vote over tough com­petition from Cleveland's Sandy Alomar, Jr. (.290, 9 HR, 66 RBI) and New York's Kevin Maas (.252, 21 HR, 41 RBI). ROOKIE TOP 10: 1. Appier 2. Alomar, Jr 
3. Maas 4. Ben McDonald, Baltimore 5. Frank Thomas, Chicago 6. Alex Cole, Cleveland 
7. John Olerud, Toronto 8. Scott Erickson, Minnesota 9. Jim Leyritz, New York 10. Kevin clubhouse propelled the Sox to a second-place finish, and a 25 game improvement in the standings. Torborg easily wins this award. MANAGER TOP 5: 

1. Torborg 2. Tony LaRussa, Oakland 3. Joe Morgan, Boston 
4. Sparky Anderson, Detroit 5. 
Jim Lefebvre, Seattle. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
MVP: Bonds or Bonilla? 
Bonilla or Bonds? Nothing against Ryne Sandberg of the Cubs (.306, 40 HR. 100 RBI, 25 SB), Darryl Strawberry of the Mets (.277, 37 HR, 108 RBI) and Eddie Murray of Los Angeles (.330, 26 HR. 95 RBI), but Barry Bonds (.301, 33 HR, 114 RBI, 52 SB) and Bobby Bonilla (.280, 32 HR. 120 RBI) of the Pittsburgh Pirates are the two most logical choices for this years MVP. I give the edge to Bonds because: 
a) Bonilla had the luxury of having Bonds hitting behind Strawberry and Murray (tie) 6. Doug Drabek, Pittsburgh 7. Chris Sabo, Cincinnati 8. Matt Williams, San Francisco 9. Ramon Martinez, Los Angeles 
10. Ron Gant. Atlanta. 
CY YOUNG: Again, several worthy candidates. Frank Viola of New York (20-12, 2.67) will get plenty of support, and for good reason: he was the best left-bander in the NL this year. Ramon Martinez of the Dodgers (20-6, 2.92, 223 SO [second in NL]) quietly assumed Orel Hershiser's role as ace of the lA rotation, holding the staff together and keeping the Dodgers in the NL West pennant chase. John ·Franco was the NL's best closer, notching 33 saves for the Mets. However, Doug Drabek (22-6, 2. 76) led a mediocre-talent­wise-Pittsburgh staff by example to a third-best staff 
1 
I Myers, Cincinnati 9. John Tudor, I St. Louis 10. Zane Smith, Pittsburgh. ROOKIE OF THE YEAR: Cincinnati's Hal Morris (.340, 7 HR 36 RBI) wins over Atlanta's Dave Justice (.282, 28 lliC 78 RBI), Montreal's Delino DeShields (.289, 42 SB). and Chicago's Mike Harkey (12-6, 
3.26) because he was able to produce in the heat of a pennant race. ROOKIE TOP 10: 1. Morris 2. Justice 3. Harkey 4. DeShields 5. John Burkett, San Francisco 6. Mike Hartley, Los Angeles 7. Bill Sampen, Montreal 8. Marquis Grissom, Montreal 9. Kent Mercker, Atlanta 10. Francisco Oliveras, San Francisco. 
MANAGER OF THE YEAR: Pittsburgh was another team not expected to do much in 1990, but Jim Leyland took an average pitching staff with no 
I 
Tapani, Minnesota. him in the lineup, ensuring ERA of 3.40, while c.learly established closer in the 
MANAGER OF THE YEAR: pitchers could not pitch around becoming the dominant pitcher bullpen, a budding star angered The Chicago White Sox were him and that he would get good in the league. He wins a close by his loss in arbitration, and picked in almost every pre­pitches to hit; b) Bonds was the battle. CY YOUNG TOP 10: 1. managed to win the NL East
AMERICAN season publication to finish last more complete player (52 steals Drabek 2. Martinez 3. Viola 4. over everyone's perennial~CANCER in the Western Division, but Jeff to 4, slightly better defensively). Franco 5. Jose Rijo, Cincinnati choice to win the pennant, the Torborg's masterful use of the MVP TOP 10: 1. Bonds 2. 6. Danny Darwin, Houston 7. Ed New York Mets. An easy choice.
'SOCIETY~ 
bullpen and gentle hand in the Bonilla 3. Sandberg 4. Whitson, San Diego 8. Randy MANAGER TOP 5: 1. Leyland 2. Lou Piniella, Cincinnati 3. Bud Harrelson, New York 4. Buck Rodgers, Montreal 5. Tom La­sorda, Los Angeles. 

A final note...while Oakland should win the World Series, Cincinnati definitely will not receive the whitewashing treat­ment Boston did. The Reds have enough offensive firepower to score some runs, and if, at the
GRAND OPENING 
same time, their starting pitching can hold off the A'sA WEEK OF EXCITING SALES &EVENTS 
until the sixth or seventh inning, the Nasty Boys can thwart any Oakland attempt atLocated 1f2 Block South of SR 23 on Ironwood one of their comebacks. However, Cincinnati starts two COME IN TO REGISTER FOR THE LAS VEGAS DRAWING lefties, and Oakland's lineup is tailor-made for battling
GRAND PRIZE-Las Vegas Drawing, October 25-28, 1990. See store for details. 
southpaws. Also, the A's have FREE PRIZES ALL WEEK LONG... the best pitching staff in baseball, hands down, and the WE CARRY SOFTWARE FOR: IBM AMIGA APPLE MACINTOSH Reds will have trouble scoring off them. Thus, my prediction is
• Produced for the llnladway stage llr •
• Computers • Peripherals • Plus a complete selection of books & magazines 
that the Xs will win In six.
Michael Butler Originallr Produced 11r tile
(219) 272-5484 
• 
New York 

• Shakespeare Festival 
Reds 
1724 N. Ironwood Suite B continued from page 16 
........ South Bend, IN 46635 

Hatcher went 3-for-3 with ~-----two doubles and a walk, and 
• 

led an aggressive attack on the ' SERVING YOUR MICROCOM•P-U,.T,.,ER""'NEEDS SINCE 1980 bases. 
• 

Wednesday Oct. 17,8.00 p.m.
• 

"Any time you get a lead
• Morris Civic Auditorium I 
against the A's, that's some­
Tickets available At Auditorium 
thing," Hatcher said.
• Box Office, LaFortune Info Desk, • and All Usual Outlets W During the Athletics' 10-game 
• 
• Charge Your Tickets At • breeze through the postseason, 284-9190 they never trailed by more than 
50% off with student I.D. at the • one run. In last year's World box office on the day of show Series sweep, they never trailed 
at all. 

•0 Baxter •0 
•
•

•• Come Talk to Us • 
Careers in: 
•

• 
Accounting

• 
Finance Sales 


•

• Marketing 
Operations Information Systems
• 

: Wednesday, October 17,7:00-9:00 PM 
• 

• University Club-Upper lounge Meet Baxter Night
• 
Sponsored by Baxter 

• On Campus Interviewing October 18 & 19
•




page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1990 
Women's IH football heats up 
Top eight teams will match-up in November playoffs 
By CHAD WISHCHUK Sports Writer 
The 1990 Women's Interhall Football regular season was completed Tuesday night at Cartier Field, setting the stage for the long-awaited play-offs to determine this years new pigskin queens. 
Following a 6-0 squeaker past Lyons Hall, Breen-Philips captured the coveted regular­season championship with an unblemished record of five vic­tories and no defeats, making them the team to beat in November. Katherine Mapother, captain of the Blitz, leads her "psyched-up" gridders into the play-offs. 
"I hope we play the same in­tense, exciting football that we've been playing all year," said Mapother. 
Staring down B. P. 's throats in the six-member Gold League is defending champion Howard Hall, who rode a string of four straight shutout wins into sec­ond place after an opening sea­son loss to No. 1 B.P. Off­Campus (3-2) put a giant ex­clamation point on their season with a 14-0 win over Badin (1­
4) Tuesday night to vault the Black Plague into the play-offs. Tight ends Michelle· Richards and Liz Nolan caught long bombs from quarterback Jill Bodensteiner to score for the Plague while Jennifer Salmon added the two-point conversion after Nolan's touchdown. 
Lyons will also be represented in post-season competition, fin­ishing their campaign at 2-3 behind leading scorer Maura Long. 
In the Blue Division, Farley's Finest and Lewis Hall blasted to a deadlock at the top spot. Both squads boast a 4-1 record heading into their play-off games. Farley's defense gave up only one TO all season long. Lewis' sole upset came at the hands of Farley by only six points. In the first round of play-offs, interhall fans will also see a 3-2 P.W. team, coming off a huge 20-6 shellacking of Knott (1-4), and the P.E. Pyros (2-3). 

The four winners of opening round play-off games on November 4 will advance to the semifinals the following Sunday. The Championship Final will be held at Cartier Field on Sunday afternoon, November 18. 
WEAR IT WITH CLASS!. 
STEP ON OUT TO 

T H E 0 D 0 R E' S THIS WEEKEND ! 
Dance to the tunes of your favorite DJs. Open Thursday and Friday at 9:30 p.m. 

Former Hurricanes want Miami to beat Notre Dame 
CORAL GAHLES, Fla. lAP)­
The Miami Hurricanes ex­pect a lot of phone calls from around the NFL this week. 
They're sure to hear from Bernard Clark in Cincinnati and Melvin Bratton in Denver. Alonzo Highsmith in Dallas and Cortez Kennedy in Seattle will call too. And Steve Walsh might reach out from his new area code in New Orleans. 
The ex-Hurricanes all know their alma mater plays Saturday at No. 6 Notre Dame. 
"The great thing about this 

program that's different from any other place I've been or seen," coach Dennis Erickson said, "is the closeness of the ex-players with the program and the players that are here. There's a real strong bond." 
Former Hurricanes tele­phone Erickson's office, the players' dorms or the training room. Current 'Canes say the callers provide motivation when the upcoming game is against a weak team and bolster confidence when the next opponent is, say, Notre Dame. 
Thinking ofdoing ayearof service? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
IBM CORPORATION OF 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY 
(Poughkeeepsie, EastFishkill, Kingston,Sterling Forrest 
Invites All Students Interested in Pursuing Carrers in Chemical, Electrical, and Mechanical Engineering to an 
INFORMATION SESSION 
on OCTOBER I8 at 6:oopm 
ROOM Izo~CUSHING HALL of ENGINEERING 

Wednesday, October 17, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 35 Nice station 59 Sibelius was Wednesday, October 17, 1990 361ndigo one
1 "It takes two to 60 Knot or cramp
4:15 p.m. "International Security: Language and &Row 
10 Burn 38 Foray 62 Karma
Assumptions," Carol Cohn, Visiting Faculty Fellow of the 
63 Notable periods
Institute for International Peace Studies. Room 121 Law 14 Tatum or Ryan 39 Get one's goat 
64 Move like Susan 
School. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace 15 Marcel's wave 40 Triumphs 
Jaffe

Studies. 16 Sharpen 41 Summit 17 Like a tall diva 42 Divert 
7:30 p.m. "Modernity and the Care of Our Children," DOWN
19Aware of 44 Natty
William Bennett, Director of the Office of National Drug 
20 Directional inits. 46 Sty sound 1 Decorated 
Control Policy. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored 
21 Dies-tinplate
47 Baroque

by the Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government. 
22 Sequence composer 2 Later 24 Lillie and Arthur 48 Of the skin 3 State bird of
8 p.m. Lecture, "The Russian Orthodox Church," 
Hawaii

Mikhail Scherbachev, Deputy Head, Publishing 25 Quaker 51 Shake-on 
pronoun powder 4Joke
Department of the Russian Orthodox Church, Moscow. 
2&Appalled 5 Hardy and 
Hoom 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by the 52 Milburn Stone 
North

Theology Department. 29 Extends role 33 Prosperity 55 Hawaiian fish & Judges' robes 34 Run away 56 Fan 7 "Picnic" playwright CAMPUS 8 Dutch ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE commune
Wednesday, October 17, 1990 
9 Vehicle in which
6 p.m. Film Series in cooperation with Student Moira Shearer Activities, "Pretty Woman." Commentator: Peggy Byers, starred Communication/Danceffheater and Chuck Presler, 10Emulate Sociology. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Michael Kidd Admission Free. Sponsored by Popular Culture Group. 11 "-soitqui 
mal ypense" 7 p.m. Film, "Bonnie and Clyde," Annenberg ~::+:-~ 12 Poker stake Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by 
~=+=-+-=-~ 13 Old cars 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
18 Q.E.D. part 23 Slippery one 

9 p.m. Film, "Boudu Saved From Drowning," 
24 Devotee of

Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. 
Balanchine's

Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
creations 

-::+..,..j..:'+-'-~ 25 Three-spot cards MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fried Steak Spaghetti & Meatballs Cheese Enchiladas Baked Haddock 
.____._____.____...__ 
26 Oscar, e.g. 27 Supernatural 
spirits 
28 Greets 
29 Factory 
30 Civil-rights org. 
31 Dirt 
32 Jewish rite 
34 Movie 
37 Production in which Princess Odette is transformed 
SPELUNKER 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
£~t.R'{~ T/1-.~ til£ FoR GRMHH>.' "'OBOD~ Pfo.'{S A~'{ ~;nt.t\TICI'\ 
1'C) t.\'{ N££0S! 
'I I· 
I~ 

BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
IS IT TOO t.\\JC\-1 10 A.SK 
FoR AA CK:C:/1.510NAL TOKEI'l Gt.S\\JRE at (l.fW:'t.<:.\/1.1\0N ?.' 
'\I 

43 Creek 44 Memorable 
Surrealist 45 Harmony 47 Supports 48 Thick flour 

pudding 49 Director Kazan 50 Tiniest of a litter 51 Singer Turner 52 Denounce as a 
failure 53 Of lyrical poetry 54 Sheepfold 57 Douglas­58 A.F.T. rival 

-~
\u~ ~ 
L....-------'1 

St.'i:. ?! [ ~'\ Mf>..~R TC:l M'{OO£! NCSQI)'( CA.R£5 A.Bc:liJI t<\£ .' 
.'I· 



Sports
page 16 Wednesday, October 17, 1990 
Holtz concerned about ND defense against 'Canes 
By KEN TYSIAC (4-1) coming into Notre Dame Associate Sports Editor Stadium Saturday averaging 
When Notre Dame went 37.2 points and 306.4 passing through two-a-days in the fall, yards per game, Holtz has good the Irish defense dominated the reason to worry, particularly offense in practice. Sophomore since the play of his defensive quarterback Rick Mirer consis-secondary has been erratic this tently had difficulty moving the season. ball down the field, and it ap-"Four men are not going to peared that although the Irish stop the pass out there," Holtz might not score a lot of points says. "You're going to have to this season, they would not give play five defensive backs a lot, up many, either. and when you do play five de-
But preseason practice is now fensive backs then they have a a distant memory for the Irish, tremendous advantage on the who are 4-1 on the season. The run, not that they need it. I defense has given up 36 and 27 think we're going to play better points to Stanford and Air Force on defense than people antici­respectively. Mirer's unit, on the pate, but right now, I really other hand, is averaging 437.4 have great concern in that yards and 34.6 points per game. area." While the offense has been a The Notre Dame defense, un­pleasant surprise for Notre der first-year defensive coordi-Dame coach Lou Holtz, the nator Gary Darnell's guidance, defense has been a disap-has moved to a more attack­pointment. oriented approach. But Dar-
With the Miami Hurricanes nell's squad hasn't created as many turnovers as expected (Irish opponents have only coughed up the ball seven times in five games), and Notre Dame is getting burned for a lot of big plays. 

"We knew we had problems with the defensive secondary coming into the (Michigan) game. We knew that. Losing (cornerback) Todd Lyght very early did not help the situation either," Holtz says. 
"We've had trouble against the pass," he continues. "I think that we've given up a lot of big plays, a lot of the yardage running comes when the individual breaks the line of scrimmage and continues to run. The difference is that our front seven is not playing too badly." 
But seven men does not a 

good defense make. Although 
see DEFENSE I page 11 


A's see red as Cincinnati wins Game 1 
''I'd hear9 so much about the Oakland 1\s. Going into today's game, I had hoped what hap­pened would happen," Rijo said. 
Stewart, meanwhile, was wild from the start and lasted only four innings. Baseball's best big-game pitcher had his worst postseason appearance ever. 
"The only pitch that failed me was my fastball," he said. "You just have to keep going and hope you're able to gain con­trol." 
It was Eric Davis who got the big hit, not Jose Canseco, Mark McGwire or the rest of Oakland's bruisers. 
Davis, Cincinnati's slumping star who has been bothered by a sore left shoulder and aching wrists and ankles, pierced the 1\s aura right away with a two­run homer in the first inning. 
"I was fortunate to get off to a good start, and everybody kept going," he said. "When I'm healthy and swing the bat well, I drive in a lot of runs and that takes the pressure off ev­erybody." 
It was Billy Hatcher who pro­vided the spark, not Rickey Henderson. 
see REDS I page 13 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz is concerned about the Irish defense. especially the secondary, going into Saturday's game. 
The real Howard Hall supports dorm team 
It seems that the Howard Hall interhall football team has a new favorite player, and it's not Raghib Ismail, Chris Zorich or Rick Mirer. 
The new choice athlete, and he has been the favorite for weeks now, is Clemson running back Howard Hall, whose name in lights would be quite a pro­paganda boost for the dorm by the same name on campus. 
But the team has not been watching at a distance. Thanks 
to Howard resident Kelly Kolodziej (that's KOHL-jay, brethren), 
Howard Hall and Howard Hall are big fans of each other, and the 
news has spread across the nation. 

"I called home on the day of the Clemson-Virginia football 
game," said Kolodziej, "and my dad said, 'Hey, there's a guy 
named Howard Hall for Clemson.' I knew someone at (Notre 
Dame) Sports Information who could get anything, so I called 
him." 

That someone at Sports Information was student a~sistant 
Derek Mohr, who went to Assistant Sports Information Director 
Rose Pietrzak. Pietrzak, who used to work in the Atlantic Athletic 
Conference, called Clemson Sports Information Director Tim 
Burret and within five days, the surprised Kolodziej had an 
autographed photo of Clemson's Howard Hall. 
That's only the beginning of the story. 
"A couple days later I was sitting in the dining hall and my 
see HOWARD I page 11 

CINCINNATI (AP) -The A's aren't invincible, after all. 
The Cincinnati Reds shocked Oakland and maybe even them­selves Tuesday night, routing the Athletics 7-0 in Game 1 of the World Series. 
It was Jose Rijo who was awesome, not Dave Stewart. 
Rijo, a former Athletics prospect, pitched seven shutout innings and ended Oakland's 1 0-game winning streak in the postseason. 

These guys will win postseason awards 
As the 1990 baseball season comes 
to a close, it becomes time once 
again to speculate on who will the Rene Ferran 
post-season awards. While I don't Sports Writer 
get an official vote, here are my 
choices for the accolades. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
MVP: The choice comes down to two players: Oakland's 
Rickey Henderson (.325 BA, .439 OBA, 28 HR, 65 SB) and 
Detroit's Cecil Fielder (.277 BA, 51 HR, 132 RBI). While 
Henderson had an outstanding season, and is the consum­
mate leadoff batter, the A's most likely would have won the 
AL West without him. The Tigers without Fielder, however, 
would have been battling the Yankees for the division cellar 
rather than improving 20 games from their 1989 record, 
and maintaining sight of the pennant-they finished nine 
games back overall. Isn't this the definition of a most valu­
able player? Thus, Fielder is my choice, but just barely. MVP 
TOP 10: 1. Fielder 2. Henderson 3. Kelly Gruber, Toronto 4. 
Bobby Thigpen, Chicago 5. Roger Clemens, Boston 6. Fred 
McGriff, Toronto 7. Ellis Burks, Boston 8. Ken Griffey, Jr, 
Seattle 9. Bob Welch, Oakland 10. George Brett, Kansas City. 
CY YOUNG: Again, a close decision. Bob Welch of Oakland 
had a career season, going 27-6 with a 2.95 ERA (the most 
wins in the AL since Denny McLain in 1968). However, Welch, 
like Storm Davis a year ago, benefitted from pitching for the 

~R~N~:~R~~ foot~"~tLprepares f?o~,f?!~xen~h• end 
Sports Writer 
After week four of the men's interhall football season, the races for the league champi­onships are over. Grace, Alumni, and Sorin have won the titles of their respective divisions, while Fisher has clinched the second berth from the Rockne League. 
PARSEGHIAN LEAGUE 
Grace won its first league title in over a decade by trouncing archrival Flanner 21-0. On its second play from scrimmage after holding Flanner on its ini­tial possession, Steve Homan and Jeff Abbott opened a huge hole in the line, and Joe Mi­nadeo turned a straight dive play into a 60-yard touchdown run. Bob Sweeney added the PAT, and quickly it was 7-0. 
With two minutes remaining in the first half, Grace made it 14-0 on Jim Kossler's 40-yard pass to Jeff Burns, and Sweeney's kick. Grace iced the victory early in the fourth quar­ter when Kossler found Tim 

"All the hard work and effort zone for the Big Red. has paid off in a champi-"This was a tremendous de­onship," said Grace coach Chris fensive effort which made up Sullivan. "The offense finally for our lack of offense," said came together, and we're hop-Dillon coach Scott Frigon. "Our ing to ride a cresting wave that most difficult game is coming will carry us to the stadium." up Wednesday (against Off-
Dillon kept its playoff hopes Campus), but I think our de­alive -by defeating Morrissey fense is up for the challenge. It 10-7. The Manor scored on the will come down to our offensive opening drive of the game performance." when quarterback Scott Taylor LEAHY LEAGUE scrambled seven yards for the Stanford eliminated 1989 touchdown. John Michael runner-up Cavanaugh from added the extra point. playoff contention with its 10-2 
The Big Red struggled on of-victory Sunday. All the Studs' fense all afternoon, but in the points came in the second fourth period, they finally put quarter. Jason Beiter kicked a together a sustained drive. 40-yard field goal after a Steve Zolioli's 25-yard comple-Stanford drive stalled at teh tion to Dan Schmidt set up An-Cavanaugh 22. thony Corey's 35-yard field goal With 30 seconds remaining in to make it 7-3. the half, Stanford lined up in 
Dillon's winning touchdown the spread formation. Tailback came on defense. Out of the Mike McKelvy ran a post pat-shotgun formation at the Manor tern, and when the Cavanaugh five, the snap sailed over defensive back slipped, quar­Taylor's head into the end zone. terback Brian Jockisch hit As Taylor attempted to recover McKelvy streaking into the end the ball, Mike Muligan came up 
Slentz wide open out in the left with the hit to jar the ball free 
see AWARDS I page 13 

flat; Slentz ran 25 yards to the again. David Pasquale finally see IH I page 12 



