
-

VOL. XXIII NO. 51
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Professors discuss U.S. involvement in Gulf Crisis 
By MICHAEL OWEN Arab League. according to News Writer Gaffney. On the political side of the is­
The Kuwaiti government was sue. Gaffney discussed the illegally overthrown and Iraq is Baath party that is present in guilty of blatant aggressive acts. both Syria and Iraq. In Syria, said Father Patrick Gaffney as the Baath party believes unity 
he opem!d a panel discussion should be achieved simultane­last night on the gulf crisis. ously in the Arab world while 
Four Notre Dame professors Iraq believes it should develop prnsented a variety of con­its own country first, according tributing factors to the current to Gaffney. Persian Gulf crisis in a forum In conclusion, Gaffney de­entitiHd, "A Panel Discussion on scribed the international situa­tlw Gulf Crisis" in the Jlesburgh tion in the Gulf as being differ­l.ibrary Auditorium. ent than most people under­
Participating professors in­stand it to be. Gaffney said that cluded Gaffney. assoeiate pro­Hussein could be making way fessor of anthropology; James for possible negotiations due to Bakowski. associate professor the fact that he has called for ... 
of neonomics; Alan Dowty, pro­them from the start and is now The Observer I Marguerite Schropp Professors John Gilligan (far left), Father Patrick Gaffney, Khalil Matta, Alan Dowty and James Rakowski
fllssor of government and in­beginning to break down his 
conducted a panel discussion on "The Gulf Crises: A Multidimensional Perspective." The purpose of this
ternational studies. and Khalil stance by releasing groups of 
was to analyze the various factors that have contributed to current Gulf situation .
Matta, acting chair and assoei­hostages. at!l professor of management. Hakowski addressed the pos­has always been there in the The presentation format of our policy, Matta said. John Gilligan. Shuster professor sible motivations for the United charter." He added that this the panel discussion was ended If the reason is our desire for and director of the Institute for States' involvement in the Gulf would not have been possible if by Professor Khalil Matta who low oil prices, Matta asked, "do 
International Peace Studies, crisis from an economic stand­"it weren't for the Soviet policy questioned many of the popular we really want to sacrifice the moderated the discussion. point. Rakowski said that it change" that helped bring una­reasons for why the United blood of our children to pay a 
Each presenter offer!ld their would not make sense for us to nimity among world powers. 
States has become involved in little Jess for oil?" Finally, Matta idllas in 15 minute sections and go to war over the price of oil Dowty also stated that it is in the Gulf crisis. Matta stated questioned whether the United 
th1m aeceptl!d questions from since. "it does not matter if he the interest of the United States that a reason for our involve­States has been trying to 
thll audience. (Hussein) is nice or a scoundrel to continue with the U.N.'s ment must be clearly defined remove the threat of a powerful<;affney proeeeded to outline because the market determines charter so as to avoid the ex­because we must be aware of Iraqi military presence which a four-part ov!lrview of the the price. not the dictator." tremes of an American/Iraq the consequences of a "bloody could include chemical, pres~:nt Arab situation. Histor­Dowty began his presentation war or a diplomatic victory for and costlv war." biological and nuclear ically, Gaffney said that it has by reviewing the section of the Iraq. weapons.bnen. "a rllgion troubled with United Nations Charter that de­As for possible alternative fights ever since the first World termines how a breach of peace approaches to war, Dowty sug­As for the U.S. being involved Last night's panel discussion War and since colonial states can be addressed. According to gested the use of "psychological in order to "correct an injus­was co-sponsored by the Inter­emerged at the disposition of Dowty, the charter allows for warfare" or the possibility of tice", Matta questioned why this national Graduate Student the French and British." When the use of land, sea and air cutting off Iraq's main water idea has not been used against Committee, Graduate Student 
Kuwait was released from Bri­forces to maintain international supply in Turkey. Dowty con­Turkey in its invasion of Cyprus Union. the Multicultural Coun­tish control in 1961, Iraq ol;­peace. cluded by stating, "If there is to or toward Israel in its cil, Student Government and jHcted and only settled fJr a Dowty said, "This is the first be war, let it be by Iraq's occupation of the West Bank. the Institute for International 
temporary border with the real use of the potential that choice." "We should be consistent" in Peace Studies. 
NEH bashes the way we teach 
WASHINGTON (API Traditional methods of training teachers, testing students and selecting tnxtbooks arc so flawed they may derail creative efforts to improve learning. a report said Sunday. 
Lynnn Cheney, chairman of thn National Endowment for the Humanities. used a man­dated congressional report to harshly criticize basic U.S. educational practices. 
Cheney called the practices "tyrannical machines." a phrase coined by philosopher William James to describe mnthods that become both counterproductive and resis­tant to change once established on a large scale. 
The report cited the Scholastic Aptitude Test as "an almost classic example" of a "tyrannical machine." 
Cheney also attacked school textbook selection committees that choose matnrial. without reading them, college education programs in which tnachers spend little time studying what they eventually will tiHtch and university systems that value research more than teaching. 
"Tyrannical machines domi­nate American education and havH contributed to its fail­ures." said Cheney in the re­port. "The most effective course for dealing with tyran­nical machines is to provide alternative systHms and to nnsure that pnople can choose -and choosn wisely ­among them." 
For this reason. Cheney said "choice" -allowing students and parents to decide where to attend school -is "one of the most promising ways of dismantling tyrannical machines and revitalizing the schools." 
"When there are alternative ways to become a teacher or to choose textbooks or to assess students -and when people know about them -it is more difficult for outmoded and unsatisfactory methods to dominate. Healthy competition is anathema to tyrannical ma­chines," she said. 
Deputy Education Secretary Ted Sanders applauded the report. saying "We need a revolution in teaching and learning." 
Mansfield University Presi­dent Rod Kelchner, in Mans­field. Pa.. said that "while Ch­eney makes some valid points, they are overridden by generalizing and bashing to the point of absurdity." 
The SAT, described by the report as the centerpiece of our educational system, filled an important need when first devised in the 1920s when officials wanted to detach college entrance examinations from the high school curriculum. Now, Cheney said the SAT tries to avoid testing what students have learned about subjects such as history and literature. 
In the past 10 years, the test has been attacked repeatedly yet it continues to thrive and to exercise considerable power. She said, "not only do institutions of higher education rank students by their SATs, they in turn are ranked by them, their status going up or down depending on the average scores of the incoming class. 
"Secondary schools are judged by SATs: Local housing prices rise and fall; principals and superintendents are hired and fired; and the entire nation reaches conclusions about the state of American education." 
Cheney said an alternative would be to expand the use of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, saying it was the sole assessment tool that is both nationally repre­sentative and comprehensive in calculating what America's students know and can do in various subject areas. 
College Board President Donald Stewart took issue with Cheney's assessment of the SAT, stressing she "makes some thought-provoking and sorrie extremely questionable statements." 
"In a nation with over 26,000 secondary schools ­with varying eurriculums and teaching and grading standards -the SAT provides an independent, objective verification of a student's mathematical and verbal reasoning abilities, skills that are important to academic success in college," he said. 



AP Photo 

Rescued! 
After being stranded in a box canyon in Fruit Heights, Utah, the 6­year-old gelding named Radar was airlifted to safety Thursday. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Permacloud over ND is here to stay 

We came back from October Break to beautiful 70 degree weather. The campus was bright and cheerful with the sun reflecting off the col­orful autumn leaves. Students made every excuse in the book in order to stay out­
doors. Homework Accent Copy Editor didn't seem so burdensome. 
Were we just imagining this scenario? It's almost too difficult to picture now as I load up each morning in sweaters, boots, coats and, of course, the cursed umbrella. 
As a good friend put it recently, "Permacloud" is back. That is, the inevitable and seemingly permanent gray mass which hovers over Our Lady, creating strings of monotonous and dreary days. 
Yes, that lovely gray sky, chilling rain and whipping wind characteristic of South ....~ ..~ has returned. The trees are now bare. The leaves, now brown, are matted to the soaked ground. Puddles the size of small lakes have taken over our pathways. 
Students make every excuse in the book so as NOT to have to venture out into the un­known. Classes are abandoned and trips to the library become less and less frequent­allowably, however. 
Who should have to subject themselves to such hell outdoors? (This argument eradi­cates the possibility of feeling the guilt you felt on those nice days while playing volley­ball when you should have been studying at the 'brare.) 
But what do we do with ourselves when we are confined to our dorms? 
This is an excellent time to start planning a spring break trip. Inevitably everyone will readily agree with your proposal to visit the Sahara. Just mention sun, heat and a CLOUDLESS sky. 
In addition, with all this bleak time on our hands and no shining sun to make us feel as if "we're missing out on something," it be­comes easier to study. Suddenly EVERYONE you know is doing it. 
This appears to be the ONLY positive aspect of Permacloud, ironic as it may seem. Study habits actually begin to im­prove. And with improved study habits we get improving grades (in most cases) and with improving grades we get "happy" (translation= generous, rewarding) parents. 
But hey, remember not to go overboard. There's a time to study, and then there's more time meant for leisure. Watch a movie, write a letter, find that sock you lost in your couch. Do those things you have been putting off for "that rainy day." 
Because, whether you like it or not, there are an infinite number of rainy days to come. 
Permacloud is definitely here to stay. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
News Joe Moody Kevaleen Ryan 
Accent Paige Smoron Colleen Cronin 
VIewpoint Jay Colucci 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Sports Ad Design Dave Dieteman Amy Eckert Dannika Simpson Scoreboard: Joy Mueller Rene Ferran Luke Lytell Jennifer McCarter Production Karen Newlove Christine Anderson 
Systems 
Gilbert Gomez 
Bernard Brenninkmeyer 
Stephanie Snyder 
.------------------------------------------­
-~~--~­

Tuesday, November 13, 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER 
forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 13. 
Yesterday's  high: 40  
Yesterday's  low: 3 7  
Nation's high: 94  
(Monrovia, Calif.)  
Nation's  low: 5  
(Alamosa, Colo.)  
Forecast:  
Sunshine and breezy today  
with highs in the mid 40s.  
Clear and  cold  with  lows  
tonight  in the  upper 20s.  
Tomorrow,  sunny  and  
warmer  with  highs in  the  
lower 50s.  
COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
Pressure  
®  ©  ~  ~  m  0  0 X  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

OF INTEREST 
Juniors may turn in pictures this week to the Student Activities Office on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center for Junior Parent's Weekend. No al­cohol allowed in these pictures. 
There will be a luncheon in the Rotary Room at Saint Mary's today from 12 -1 p.m. concerning the summer service project in Mexico. An informational meeting will also be held on tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Special guests from Maryknoll mis­sionaries will be present at the luncheon and meeting to talk about the project and answer questions. 
A workshop on "Writing Effective Resumes" will be held today from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Lounge and repeated tomorrow from 6:30 to 7:30 
p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. Ac­curately depicting your strengths and qualifications and focusing your resume will be discussed. Sponsored by Ca­reer and Placement Services. 
WORLD 
Police and volunteers flying in glider planes, . ~olice on_ Monday arrested 10 Greenpeace ac-hang gliders and helicopters tossed millions of tree and tiVIsts for hangmg a banner atop Tower Bridge in London plant seeds into Brazil's Atlantic Forest to reforest Rio de to protest British plans to conduct nuclear tests in Janeiro's ravaged wilderness. About 92 million seeds were Nevada. The activists included five people who held the dropped Sunday from 40 helicopters and 12 glider planes safety ropes and five others who were suspended 140 feet and hang gliders into three of Rio's national forests to above the Thames River to hang the enormous banner begin the city's "Dress Rio in Green" environmental cam-reading "Stop UK Nuclear Tests." The British environ­paign. The $320,000 campaign was planned shortly after mental group said it received leaked information last Rio was chosen as the host city of the 1992 United weekend that the test would be conducted underground Nations World Environment Conference. Wednesday. 
NATIONAL 
Pablo Picasso, world-........­
renown abstractionist artist, is shown here in 1970 two years before his death. Although he never visited the United States, the U.S. government maintained extensive files on the artist because it considered him a subver­sive, according to an article in the New York Times. The FBI still maintains a Picasso file, although the artist died 17 years ago at the age of 91. His works, featured in museums and galleries across the globe, are a tribute to a lifetime of exploratory 
painting and sculpting. 
INDIANA 

Indiana State Police were searching a remote area of Orange County Sunday night for a French Lick man who allegedly shot and killed his grandfather.. Witnesses said 31-year-year old William Trent Marshall had an argument with 84-year-old Homer Albright at his home north of Prospect Sunday morning and then shot him in the stomach, according to Sgt. Norman Weber of the state police post at Jasper. Albright was pro­nounced dead at the scene. Police said he also al­legedly shot his mother, 54·-year-old Donna Linehan. She was taken to Humana University Hospital in Louisville, but no condition was avail­able late Sunday. 
MARKET UPDATE 
for Nov. 13 1990 
Volume in shares 

199.64 Million 
NYSE Index 174.07 • 2.09 S&P Composite 319.48 .. 5.74 Dow Jones Industrials 2,540.35 +51.74 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $2.60 to $386.30/oz. 
Silver {7 4.0¢ to $4.237/oz. 
A meeting will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns for all those interested in con­tinued education, dialogue and action concerning the escalating mobilization for war in the Middle East. 
ND/SMC Right to Life will show and discuss the movie "Eclipse of Reason" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Siegfried Hall Lounge. Information and sign-ups for the Washington D.C. march in January will be available. 
Rodney West of Bristol, England will present "Public Subsidy -The Subtle Censorship," an unusual op­portunity to become familiar with a British perspective on censorship in the arts, tomorrow at 4 p.m. in Room 100 of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Anyone interested in Mock Trial should contact either Michael Moreland at 283-1827 or Amy Cashore at 283-2562 to obtain this year's case packet. 
Americans paid tribute to the dead of wars past in solemn Veterans Day ceremonies Sunday at the Tomb of the Unknowns and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington D.C. amid fears that the nation may be swept into a new war in the Persian Gulf. At the Vietnam memorial, Bob Horsch of Rahway, N.J., a vet­eran of Army service in Vietnam, said he believed it was "just a matter of time" until the United States was at war again. Horsch said he believed the military buildup in the Persian Gulf was justified by the need to protect American interests and those of other countries. Speakers at the ceremonies, including Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, paid tribute to the American troops now serving in the 
gulf region. ALMANAC 
On November 13: e In 1789: Benjamin Franklin wrote the letter in which he coined a now-famous saying, "Our new Constitution is now established, and has an appearance that promises permanency; but in this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes." e In 1942: President Roo­sevelt signed a measure lower­ing the minimum draft age from 21 to 18. e In 1985: Some 23,000 residents of Armero, Colombia, died when a gigantic mudslide, triggered by the Nevado del Ruiz volcano, buried the city. 
-----~~-~ --~~ -­
Tuesday, November 13, 1990 The Observer page 3 


Panel talks about the issue of a unified Germany 
robberies have occurred in the Article 146 of the Basic Law well as the four Allies, was the known as the "German Prob­

By CORINNE PAVLIS 
last month than in the entire would have allowed for the last treaty necessary. lem." 

Saint Mary's Editor 
history of Germany," cited calling of a new Constitutional Kommers also touched on Wegs questioned how far 

In commemoration of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame professors held a panel discussion Friday at Saint Mary's. 
Notre Dame professors Hobert Wegs and Donald Kommers joined Saint Mary's colleagues Jurgen Brauer and Robert Ladrech to address is­sues concerning the transition of East and West Germany into one unified Germany. 
Brauer, a visiting professor in the Economics department at Saint Mary's and a native of Berlin, opened the discussion with an analysis of some of the problems the unified Germany has faeed on economic and so­eial levels. 
Focusing on employment is­sues, Brauer noted that "East German workers will have to bncnme four times as produc­tive to keep up with their West German counterparts." Citing the auto industry as an exam­ple, Brauer estimated that three out of four East German workers will become essentially superfluous. 
"In the short run there are frightening prospects for the new Germany, including enor­mous unemployment, costs and dislocation," stated Brauer. 
Brauer explained that eco­nomic hardship, particularly for thn East Germans, is to be expected. "More reported bank Brauer to exemplify the des­peration many East Germans are suffering. 
Brauer also touched on the wider implications German unification will have on the rest of the European Community and stressed that "Europe should not provide Germany with the opportunity to divorce itself from the rest of Europe." 
In terms of the future, Brauer has a fairly positive attitude. "The general outlook for Ger­many is bright; by the late 1990s, the East will be as pro­ductive as the West is today," he predicted. 
Kommers, one of the leading experts on German constitu­tional and judicial issues and a professor in Notre Dame's gov­ernment department, focused on the Basic Law, the German constitution, and the process by which unification was legally possible. 
Kommers explained that there are two ways by which unification was possible under the German constitution: under Article 23 or Article 146. 
Under Article 23 of the Basic Law, the article under which unification actually occurred, additional territories may be annexed onto West Germany. This provision required East Germany to formally petition West Germany for annexation. 


SPEND AN EVENING WITH US FOR THE ULTIMATE IN FINE DINING AND ENTERTAINMENT 
lunch 11-2 pm Mon-Fri dinner 5-9 pm Mon-Thurs 5-10 pm Fri &: Sat 
BANQUET & RECEPTION ROOMS AVAILABLE 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 
289-P 0 L 0 

More than just flowers. 
flowers • Balloons • Greeting Caf<:ig Lafortune f>Memcnt 12:30-5:30 Monday thru &turday 283-4242 Vi&! (11 Ma&erCard accepted We deliver daily to NO. ~C. and Holy Ct'OM camp~ 



AE'fNA IS COMING. 
University of Notre Dame Reception/Information Session 
Reception/ Information Session November 13, 1990 Morris N. Alumni Room 5-7:00 p.m. 
• 
Actuaries 


• 
Claims Representatives 


convention to create a united Germany. Kommers explained that this route would have been more controversial and may "have been disastrous for the country as it would have opened a whole new can of worms to deal with." 
Kommers also explained the four major agreements neces­sary for unification to occur. First, a single monetary unit had to be chosen. Next, an elec­tion treaty was designed. 
Third, a political unity treaty designed to serve as the princi­ple governing doctrine was cre­ated. This treaty obliges Ger­many to revoke Article 23 of the Basic Law, thereby establishing the current boundaries permanently. 
An official agreement be­tween the two Germanies, as transitional provisions such as the decision to allow East and West Germany to maintain their opposing abortion policies for one year. 
Kommers emphasized that East Germany must now be or­ganized under the Western sys­tem. "The East Germany Judi­ciary must totally revise," ex­plained Kommers. He added that, "East Germany justices will no longer be qualified to preside over the Western sys­tem." 
Kommers, a professor at the Notre Dame Law school, noted that, "Legal education must be reconstructed to produce qualified East Germans." 
Wegs, an expert on Austrian history, presented an historical synopsis of the two Germanies, and what has come to be German ethnicity will be able to stretch. German problems of identity are not new. Fragmen­tation of the German people has existed for much longer than the current issues of unifi­cation, explained Wegs. 
Ladrech, a professor in the political science department at Saint Mary's, addressed issues concerning electoral politics in Germany. He explained that the "Christian Democratic Union (CDU) emerged as the largest party, not a dominating one, in the recent election." 
Ladrech also commented on the implication German unity will have on the rest of the Eu­ropean Community. 
The panel discussion was sponsored by the Saint Mary's Political Science Club and the Office of the Associate Dean. 
Hesburgh to hold book signing 
Special to The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame, will be available today in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 2 to 3:30 p.m. to sign copies of his autobiog­raphy, ''God, Country, Notre Dame." 
Written with Chicago alum­nus Jerry Reedy, this novel covers the life of Hesburgh from his boyhood in Syracuse, 
N.Y.• to his 35-year tenure as president of Notre Dame It also includes his extensive service to Church and state under several popes and presidents. 
Ukewise, Hesburgh addresses the changeover to lay gover­nance, the University's decision to become coeducational, the tensions during the years of student unrest and the conflicts with the Vatican over academic freedom. 
In terms of public service, he covers his years on the U.S. Commission of Civil Rights, the Presidential Clemency Board of Vietnam Offenders, and his lifelong interest in nuclear is· sues. The latter was the result of his representation of the Holy 
Actuarial Reception/ Information Center November 14, 1990 Morris N. Alumni Room 6-8:00 p.m. 
.co-ops 

• Bond Representatives r.r=~•• 
• 
Employee Benefits Representatives • Interns 

• 
Financial -Account Career Track Program 


See on the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
Hesburgh retired from Notre Dame's presidency in 1987 at the age of 70. He has an office in the Hesburgh Li­brary, and in addition to ex· tensive travel and speaking engagements, he has served on various commissions and boards and is active in the af-· fairs of several University in­stitutes. This includes the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Institute for International Peace Studies, and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 


A Tribute to John Lennon 
Poster Signed & No. (18"x24") $23.75 shipped T·Shlrl $19.50 shipped Long-Sleeved T·shirt $25.00 shipped 
CA,...,.,... add 1.2K. a.. Tu 

C>Aiglor­1001 t705.-.CA9<1165 a»-553-«187 
RICHMOND LAW 
RJCHMOND 

* 
Small classes, supportive faculty 

* 
Beautiful suburban campus 

* 
Dynamic legal community 


• 
Curriculum and placement with vision 

• 
Celebrating 120 years serving the legal profesion 



- Environmental Law in  
1st Year  
- Lawyering Skills &  
Clinical Courses  
- Video Interview Program  
(VIP) targets major midsize  
finna  

1-800-289-URLAW 
Director ofAdmission Services University ofRichmond School of Law Richmond, VA 23173 
Fully Accredited ABA/AALS 

Tuesday, November 13, 1990
The Observer
a e 4 

Emperor enthroned as a symbol, not a living god 
TOKYO (AP) -In a solemn, centuries-old rite at the Impe­rial Palace, Emperor Akihito acceded to the Chrysanthemum Throne on Monday, becoming the first Japanese monarch enthroned as a symbol and not a living god. 
Leftist radicals launched 25 separate attacks aimed at dis­rupting the ceremony, police said. They fired missiles at five military bases, including a 
U.S. naval base, and set fires at religious shrines and train stations. None of the attacks caused injuries. 
A massive national security operation involving thousands of police was mounted to pro­tect the ceremony and the scores of visiting dignitaries. 
Akihito, wearing a red­brown silk kimono of ancient design, sat on an elaborate lacquered throne in front of an Imperial Palace courtyard filled with attendants carrying bows and swords. 
He vowed to uphold Japan's modern constitution. which fundamentally restructures the world's oldest hereditary monarchy. 
"On this occasion, I pledge anew that I shall observe the constitution of Japan and dis­charge my duties as symbol of the state and of the unity of the people," Akihito, speaking in colloquial Japanese, told about 2,500 guests in the heavily guarded palace. 
Seated on her own throne at Akihito's side was Empress Michiko, also dressed in full imperial regalia. 
Under the cloudless skies, gong and drum attendants played haunting court music for royal family, officials and guests. Dignitaries from 158 countries at the ceremony in­cluded Vice President Dan Quayle and Britain's Prince Charles and Princess Diana. 
The ceremony ended with Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, dressed in swallowtail coat, leading the Japanese guests in three cries of "banzai!"-a 
wish for long life. He led the cheers from a spot level with the throne to underscore the constitution's emphasis on popular sovereignty. 
Following the enthronement, Akihito and Empress Michiko were to change into Western clothes and travel in an open car from the Imperial Palace to the Akasaka Palace, three miles away. Officials said nearly 10,000 police would line the route, which passes in front of Japan's parliament. 
Akihito had begun his morn­ing rituals by offering private prayers at three wooden shrines inside the Imperial Palace to announce his en­thronement to the Sun Goddess and ancestors. 
Critics say the 30-minute ceremony -and a series of accompanying rites to be held in coming weeks -are based too closely on the traditional religious rituals used for 
Akihito's  father  and  
grandfather,  who  were  
enthroned as divinities.  


AP Photo 
Emperor Akihito reads an address as he formally ascends to the Chrysanthemum Throne Monday at the imperial palace in Tokyo. 
Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY  
GESTURES OF GRATITUDE AND THANKSGIVING Week-end Presiders at Sacred Heart Church: The approaching time of Thanksgiving is a time to express gratitude Sunday, November 18 for the many good things we have received throughout the year­8:00AM -Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. individually and collectively. Originally, the day was set aside to 10:00 AM-Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. express thanks for the abundant harvest of the fields and the ample 11:45 AM-Rev. Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C. produce of the land. Today this national holiday focuses on Sunday Vespers -7:15 PM appreciation of all good things around us: our earth, its resources, our Vespers Concert-Notre Dame Orchestra families, friends and communities and the love shown us by them and by our God. Campus Ministry would like to draw your attention to two major Thanksgivingactivities related to thanksgiving. The first is a project of the World Campus-Wide Christian Prayer Service Hunger Coalition: the annual Thanksgiving Baskets Project. The Coalition asks that collection be taken up at the dorm masses on 'J ·~i ! :,.: Monday, November 19 Sunday, November 18. Money collected will be used to make up 7:30PMbaskets containing the traditional Thanksgiving dinner, including J.... -7.-·· 1:c,•:•>,:;;,:~;.. Sacred Heart Church turkeys, vegetables and the trimmings. Baskets will be delivered to needy families in the South Bend area. The second major Thanksgiving project is a prayer service, to be held We ..... on Monday, evening, November 19. This service of worship has been Baptist Student Union planned by a number of the various Christian prayer groups that meet Campus Bible Study on campus. Christians from various religious backgrounds and roots Campus Fellowship are invited to come together to give thanks, united in the oneness Campus Ministry proclaimed by Jesus. Fellowship Christian Athletes This interdenominational service is hoped to be the first of successive Graduate Student Union opportunities for common prayer with persons of many faiths and a lchthuschance to share cultural experiences and religious traditions among the Moreau Seminary diverse groups on campus. Voices of Faith All members of the University community are invited to join in this ..... invite you to join in this celebration. festive celebration of song and prayer and praise for the many benefits we have received. Also at that time will be remembered those who are ,!less fortunate than most of us. At the end of the service there will be ·.:• an opportunity to make a donation of food items or money. Please join in these gestures of gratitude. Share with others the gifts you have received. Thanks. Please bring donations of food and money to be sh<1rcd with the needy in the area.  


Strange man sighted in Siegfried 
By MEGAN JUNIUS leaving the restroom side of a however, no one was found, News Writer fourth floor bathroom when she Hurley said. spotted a man in the shower The suspect is described as a 
An unidentified man was side of the bathroom, Hurley white male, approximately 30 sighted in a women's bathroom said. years old, with black hair. He in Siegfried Hall early yesterday Startled, she left the bath­was around 5 foot 10 inches morning, according to Chuck room and tried to call her rec­and of medium build. Hurley, assistant director of tor. The man exited and pro­Security. ceeded down the hall in the op­In other security news, there 
A Siegfried resident was posite direction. has been a rise in the number •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• According to Hurley, another of stolen wallets outside the 
• girl spotted a man fitting the Joyce ACC racquetball courts. same description quickly de­According to Hurley, the scending a back stairwell at thefts occur while students are 
DART COURSES ADDED approximately the same time. playing and leave their wallets 
Security arrived shortly after and other personal belongings ANTH 496 01 3306 Honors Thesis, 3.0 cr. hrs. the incident was reported. outside the doorway of the EE 498E 01 3261 Multivariable Control Systems, 4.0 cr. hrs. Officers searched the building; court. 
MWF 11:1S-12:05 &W 03:2S-04:1S· EE 498F Co-Req. EE 498F 01 3262 Multivariable Control Systems Lab.,' 0.0 cr. hrs. M 02:20-0S:20; EE 498E Co-Req. EE 6SO 01 330S Control Systems Theory, 3.0 cr. hrs., T H 01:15-02:30 
American Heart &•a CLOSED COURSES AS OF Association ~ 7:00 P.M. 11/12/90 
•

ACCT 232 09 002S ACCT 232 10 0026 
DART COURSE CHANGES
BA 490 OS 0293 ENGL 311 01 0824 ENGL 311 02 26S3 CAPP 361 01 3023 MWF 12:1S-01:0S time chg 

TENNIS CLINIC
ENGL 312 02 26S4 CAPP 416 01 0417 MWF 12:1S-01:0S time chg ENGL 340 01 0833 CE S63 01 2323 T H 01:1S-02:30 day &time chg ENGL 413E 01 2667 EE 4S8 01 0681 EE 348 OR MATH 32S Pre-Req. 
TUESDAY 
ENGL 41S 01 2668 EE 498G 01 3074 cross-list withEE SS4 &CSE 498G ENGL 4160 01 2670 EE SS3 01 0704 T H 09:30-10:4S time chg 

NOVEMBER13
ENGL 4338 01 2675 EE 598C 01 0687 cancelled ENGL 4S2 01 2679 EE S98G 01 3264 MWF 01:1S-02:0S day &time addition ENGL 4S7C 01 2680 GOVT 342 01 0975 M~ 10:10-11:00 day chg 5:30 -7:00PM ENGL 465 01 2682 HATH 106 04 2922 M~F 01:15-02:05 day chg ENGL 490A 01 2687 MATH 106 OS 2923 MWF 02:20-03:10 day chg ENGL 491A 01 2688 MATH 106 06 2924 MWF 03:2S-04:1S day chg ENGL 492D 01 2689 MATH 6S8 01 1237 MWF 02:20-03:10 time chg ENGL 4968 01 2690 MATH 662 01 2960 MWF 10:10-11:00 time chg ENGL 497 01 2691 ME S63 01 2324 T H 01:1S-02:30 day &time chg GSC 344 01 2423 HIST 420 01 3191 liPS 491A 01 3228 Ml 433 01 2724 RLST 240 24 9524 
HYPERCARD DART BOOK 
soc 220 01 3030 soc 232 01 3032 
MEET AT THE ECK PAVILION 
A trial program, "The Digital DART Book", THEO 23S 01 2143 
soc 260 01 3033 designed to assist students in plaming 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA 
THEO 23S 02 1295 their schedules, Is now available in the Macintosh labs. Any comnents or suggestions 
239-6100
THEO 287 01 21S6 
for improvements can be given to the lab assistants or sent to the Registrar's 

~lliiiio...;'-.....CLINIC FREE OF CHARGE 
office. The course information in this program is only as current as the DART book, so check the Observer DART ads for any last-minute changes. • 



Tuesday, November13, 1990 
Bishops urge restraint on any U.S. action in Gulf 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The nation's Roman Catholic bish­ops on Monday urged rnstraint to minimize civilian casualties in any U.S. military action in the Persian Gulf crisis. 
Citing the church's longtime "just war" theory in regard to thn Middle East situation, bishops from across the country dnclarnd: 
"The military means used must be commensurate with the evil to be overcome and must be directed at the aggressors, not innocent pPople." 
This ruins out tactics that "could clnarly target civilian lives" and "means this war would havn to be a limited war," the bishops said. 
They urged that under those cireumstances the United States "stay thn course of per­sistent, peacdul and deter­minnd pressure against Iraq," using military force as a last rnsort. 
The bishops' position was set forth in their affirming of a letter about the erisis sent last wHek by Archbishop Hoger Mahony of Los Angeles to 
Secretary  of State James  
Bakllr.  
Mahony,  head  of  thn  

bishops' international policy 
committee, later told a news conference that the bishops' stand countenanced military force "only after every other avenue has been explored and tried." 
"The situation is fluid and changing daily," he said. "It is our hope that no use of force will be attempted." 
As the bishops began their annual fall meeting, the subject highlighted their discussion and indications were they may have more to say about it. 
Although affirming the Ma­hony assessment by a 249 to 15 ballot, they also decided to modify their agenda to consider the issue further. 
But this was to be behind doors as moved by Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston and upheld by a 126 to 118 vote. 
In lengthy debate, several bishops argued for open dis­cussion of the matter. 
"It's important that we do more," said auxiliary Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit, adding that it was critical to Americans who "need moral guidance." about it. 
The bishops' affirmed stand firmly condemns Iraq's aggression, the taking of civilian hostages and the "brutal treatment" of civilians in Kuwait. 
The Observer page 5 


O'Hara rejects CLC resolution 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY News Writer 
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, re­jected a Campus Life Council Resolution in favor of collective responsibility Friday because it contained "ambiguous and overbroad" language. 
The CLC met Monday to discuss the implications of O'Hara's decision about the resolution. Rob Pasin, student body president, said, "I am very disappointed with Professor O'Hara's decision to reject the resolution. Right now, we're trying to decide what course of action to take regarding the issues contained in the Student Bill of Rights." 
The resolution was initially composed of two parts. The first portion addressed mea­sures to be taken in case a campus-wide incident was expected to occur. Cited as a specific example of such an incident was the annual campus snowball fight. "Appropriate action to deter the incident" would then be taken by appropriate student leaders, according to the resolution. 
The second half of the resolution outlined a plan of action to be followed after such an event actually happened. This meant contacting student leaders and "adopting a course of action which stresses collective responsibility." 
Collective responsibility, ac­cording to a report created by the student Government Legal Department is a procedure in which "infractions in which many people are involved would be resolved by meeting with all appropriate parties and agreeing upon a course of action." 
"I am unwilling to adopt the resolution as a mandatory Uni­versity procedure. I do not mean to imply that I will not consult with student govern­ment leaders in appropriate circumstances," O'Hara said. She simply wanted to prevent herself from being locked into a situation "in which I am man­dated to do so in every instance of an event that has been only loosely defined." 
"I believe this issue would be better addressed if presented as part of the CLC Task Force review of existing University judicial procedures, rather than examined in isolation," said O'Hara. 
This suggestion left the CLC with three options. 
•The CLC Task Force could continue, against O'Hara's wishes, to deal with the issue the Bill of Rights "piecemeal," in regard to three specific is­sues: collective responsibility, uncensored press, and judicial review. 
•The 
CLC Task Force could form an "omnibus" report on all of the issues dealt with the Bill of Rights, which could be submitted to the office of stu­dent affairs. This report would then be taken under consideration during the revision of du Lac. 

•The 
task force could create a create an all-inclusive resolution which would be submitted to the CLC, voted upon, and sent to Patricia O'Hara for her definite approval or rejection. 


The third option shed light 
on the fact that O'Hara has 
final veto power over all CLC 
resolutions. "I believe the 
decision on the final course of 
action rests in this office," 
said O'Hara. If the CLC 
decided to take a risk, the 
entire resolution could be .rejected. 
No definite decisions were 
made at the CLC meeting 
Monday, but efforts to work 
together and communicate 
with O'Hara were 
emphasized. 

New business included spe­
cific requests to build several 
volleyball courts and recre­
ational fields specifically 
designated for football 
playing, etc., in the South 
Quad. 

The group also dis·cussed other issues such as parking for off-campus students, security phones and on­campus lighting. 
Tuesday, November 13, 1990
page 6 The Observer 
Senate discusses Anti­Apartheid at meeting 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 

John-Paul Checkett, president of the Anti-Apartheid Network, suggested that the Board of Trustees should be made ac­countable for their decisions in Notre Dame policy making. 
At the Student Senate meeting this week, Checkett discussed the complacent reaction of the Board of Trustees in their approach to the issue of divestment in South Africa. 
Checkett said, "In taking ref­erendums, the majority of stu­dents voted for divestment ... These referendums were pre­sented to the Board of Trustees. ... The Board stated that 'the administration was empowered and authorized after consultation with the di­vestment committee to divest immediately any and all hold­ings if, in their judgement, those companies doing business in South Africa are not influ­encing the dismantling of Apartheid or should circum­stances warrant this action be­cause of further deterioration of conditions itself." 
Even though these conditions for divestment have come about, according to Checkett, Notre Dame continues to keep to keep money in South Africa. 
However, "Divestment on this campus is no longer the main issue," he said, "the main issue, especially for the student gov­ernment, is the Board's re­sponse." 
According to Checkett, "The Board did not follow through and it did not offer any sub­stantial explanation of why it did not follow through ... If nothing happens with no expla­nation given, what does that say about our relationship? 






~&' ,,,,
Toocho'f'J 
Give to the United Way. 
... 

Are we [student government] in dialogue with the Board of Trustees or are we just paci­fied?" 
In other Senate news, an amendment to the official Stu­dent government constitution that would give the Student Se­nate a more defined interaction with student-run businesses. The amendment states: 
•The 
Student Senate may place a student business on probation, with a two thirds vote. The manager of the stu­dent business is to be notified of the impending vote and has the option to address the Senate before such vote is conducted. 

•Probation 
will be considered upon: 


1. 
A net loss exceeding $2000 from the previous fiscal year. 

2. 
Charges of ethical miscon­duct. 

3. 
Suggestion of a member of Student Senate. 


•Probation will consist of: 
1. 
The manager of the student business reporting to the Student Senate each semester as to the current status of the business. 

2. 
Any other measures deemed appropriate by the Stu­dent Senate or the Business Control Council. 


•Probationary status will be reviewed by the Student Senate at the beginning of the follow­ing school year. This review shall result in one of the follow­ing: 
1. 
The removal of probation­ary status. 

2. 
An additional year of pro­bation. 

3. 
Termination or restructur­ing of the student business. 


•A student business will be terminated or restructured after two consecutive years of probation and a third renewal of probationary status. 

AP Photo
Wave of the future 
One of ~ix American entrant~. in the Wo~ld Solar Car ~hallenge, the University of Michigan's "Sun Runner, runs through a stabtltty test agatnst an Australtan road train in Darwin, Australia, Saturday. 
Katzenelson: democrats are split 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 

The Democratic Party is without a coherent message for the 1990's due to a split within the party that began in the late 1940's, according to Ira Katznelson, Loeb Professor of Political and Social Science at the New School for Social Re­search. 
Katznelson presented this opinion Monday in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium in a lecture entitled "liberalism in America: Reflections on Markets, Citizen­ship and the State." 
The split formed between the party's Northern and Southern factions, said Katznelson. It began when efforts of Northern liberal Democrats to continue New Deal economic and politi­cal reforms were blocked by Southern Democrats (a.k.a. Dixecrats), who feared an ac­tivist Democratic government would force unwanted civil rights and labor protection laws upon the South. 
The Southern wing was a formidable presence within the Democratic Party, consisting of 52% of the Democratic mem­bers of the House of Represen­tatives in 1948. To prevent such a large faction from leaving the party, the Democratic leader­ship felt it necessary to reduce the liberal reformism of the party's political platform, he said. 
That decision, in Katznelson's view, prevented the Democratic Party from developing a plat­form resembling those of the Social Democratic parties of Western Europe. These parties draw most of their support from trade unions. 
According to Katznelson, the Democratic Party's attempt to appease its Southern faction robbed it of a coherent Social Democratic message that would serve as a solid alternative to the laissez faire economics of the Republican Party. 
Thus, in Katznelson's opinion, the Democrats' appeasement strategy was a failure since it failed to prevent Southern Democrats from voting Re­publican in recent Presidential elections. 
Katznelson is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Columbia University with a Ph. D. from Cambridge University. 


This Lecture Series is sponsored by the Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Art, Art History, and Design, Communication andTheatre, English, Government, History, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, .!,Jheology, 
· ·and ·~:~:t 
·Center forSocial Concerns, Student Government, Gender Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
A Lecture Series on 

-·---· ---~------------~ 
Tuesday, November13, 1990 


Big city mayors say more federal funds are needed 
NEW YORK (AP) -Cities de­serve more federal aid because they supply the labor and the tax revenue that keeps the nation going, some of the nation's urban mayors said Sunday. 
"Cities are our nation's mar­ketplaces, not only for business but also for ideas," Mayor David Dinkins said. "If we choke off our cities by denying them the resources they need to function efficiently, the marketplaces will disappear." 
Dinkins and a dozen other mayors spoke at a news con­ference to kick off a two-day conference on urban issues, such as combating drug abuse, improving education and paying for costly infrastructure such as bridges and roads. 
Atlanta Mayor Maynard Jackson said property taxes alone won't pay the bills for solving such problems. 
Boston Mayor Raymond Fly­nn said cities aren't getting enough federal aid to support drug education. 
Many of the mayors, most of them Democrats, said the fed­eral government is neglecting urban areas. In 1980, federal funds made up 19.4 percent of New York City's budget. Cur­rently that share is 9. 7 

Happy birthday 
AP Photo 
Members of Air Wing 3, US Marine Corps, salute during the playing of the national anthem, during a USMC birthday celebration at the air base in Saudi Arabia, Saturday. The Corps is celebrating its 215th birthday. The Marines are in Saudi Arabia as a part of Operation Desert Shield. 
11 Presentation of Macintosh's® New System Software11 
John Patrick Russell 
Cn"sult1"g £nxinur fnr 111'1'11­
Wlfh Q !'>ptCIQ/fy '" "Y~''"'" •m(tu~u·· 
Wednesday, November 14 geru•rnl sessicm • lOa"' ndvn11ced sessimr • lf'"' •Hesburgh Library Lou11gc 
Refreshments served 

I II 
~ Reception following presentation 
French students battle police 
PARIS (AP) -Hundreds of masked youths battled police and set 30 cars ablaze Monday as police in Paris blocked the route of more than 100,000 students demanding better conditions at their high schools. 
It was the worst violence in a month of nationwide student protests. 
·Riot police fired water can­nons and hundreds of rounds of tear gas at demonstrators, who pelted officers with rocks and bottles, smashed windows and looted stores. 
Police headquarters said 104 officers were hurt, including 18 hospitalized. Police reported 52 arrests in Paris, and a dozen youths arrested for vandalism during a protest march in Montbelaird, eastern France. 
In all, about 100 vehicles were damaged in Paris, police said. 
About 150,000 students took part in demonstrations else­where in France. 
President Francois Mitter­rand promised steps woul~ be taken to address student de­mands. They want more gov­ernment spending to improve security, upgrade substandard facilities, modernize curricula and hire more teachers. 
The main throng of protesters in Paris was orderly, but hundreds of youths on the fringes ran wild. Many rioters wore masks and carried clubs. 
Journalists were beaten. 
Mitterrand and Education Minister Lionel Jospin met with a delegation of student leaders and promised an emergency plan in response to demands for better education and safety on campus. 
Monday's march began at the Place de Ia Bastille in eastern Paris, where 201 years ago rioters stormed the prison to start the French Revolution. In the Montparnasse neighborhood 
SECURITY BEAT Thursday Nov. a Saturday, Nov. 10 
10:57 p.m. An off-campus student5:30 p.m. Two off-campus residents reported that she had been accosted byreported that their jackets and duffel bags three to five male suspects near the were stolen from a racquetball court in parking lot behind the Post Office. 
theJACC. 
10:41 p.m. A Saint Mary's student reported that her purse was stolen from a Sunday, Nov 11 racquetball court in the JACC. 12:05 a.m. A resident of Flanner Hall 
reported that his ring was stolen from his
Friday, Nov. 9 
unlocked room.

6:13a.m. A resident of Alumni Hall 
12:06 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hallreported that a leather jacket was stolen reported that her wallet was stolen whilefrom his car while it was parked in the she was at the Logan Center.
Club 23 parking lot. 
THE ~AIL sTUDio 
r S:=J;-"We are proud to present our nail technician~, who will pamper you with personalized, quality service. When you're ready for a change to a more natural looking nails call on The Castle. We're in the spotlight, for performance, precision and elegance. 
•Solar 
Nails •Repairs -Manirures by Jessica 

•Fill-Ins 
•14K Nail Jewelry •Whirlpool Pedirures 


Stacy Regular $5.5 Student Discount ($10 off) $45 






The Castle 
of southern Paris, gangs started smashing windows and robbing street vendors about two hours after the march started. 
Police Chief Pierre Verbrug­ghe, who deployed 5,000 offi­cers, told students they would not be allowed to follow their planned route and finish their march on the Champs Elysees. 
Many students obeyed the orders, but a few hundred youths squared off against po­lice at the Alma bridge. Police fired water cannons when they tried to cross, scattering the rioters who hurled rocks and trash. 
The youths regrouped and repeated attempts to break through police line. Vandals set fire to trash and dismantled bus stops. 
Jospin promised more dis­cussions with student leaders Tuesday and throughout the week, and said such talks should be held on the local level as well. 
You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation 
by 

Eli Lilly and Company 
on 

"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 
Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center 
5:00pm-7:00pm 
M 
i
I 
I 
I
I
! 
I 
I
,..,,_ 
I­
~'I; 
Ir\~ ,.,~ 
II I 

lf!IIII®~~~~~~~~----~-=_,.ZMW(.:~" 
~ Opt·n to students majoring in: ~ St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite IA Convenient Parking 
L---·~":::':::~==c~--__j ......~........~....~....z,.7......z...._••s......4...._7~~~~~~~~.1
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--....,.........,., 
Tuesday, November 13, 1990

page 8 The Observer 
Worry grows in Congress over gulf 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Mem­bers of Congress expressed in­creasing worry Monday over President Bush's latest moves in the Persian Gulf, warning that he is stepping out ahead of his carefully created international consensus and that Americans as well as allies may balk at going to war. 
"If George Bush wants his presidency to die in the Arabian desert, he's going to get his wish," Sen. Daniel Moynihan, D-N.Y., a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, said in an interview. 
Bush's spokesman quickly retorted, "Not a shot's been fired. What are these guys talking about?" 
The spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said Bush has no intention of leaving Congress out of his decision making. 
"They know what we're do­ing," Fitzwater said. "They've been kept informed every step of the way. It's appropriate that they be cautious, that they express these concerns. There's nothing wrong with that." 
Following Bush's announce­ment last week that the United States will begin a huge new deployment to gain an offensive capability in the region, the tone on Capitol Hill has shifted from cautious support to apprehension. 
Speaking in Albany, Ga., on Monday, Democratic Sen. Wyche Fowler said Congress should come back into session after Thanksgiving to debate the issue and to better define America's goals: "What will constitute victory, how long it might take and, more impor­tantly, to pursue every eco­nomic and diplomatic strategy, so that hopefully we can elimi­nate the military option." 
Moynihan's comment was among the harshest assess­ments yet of the president's handling of the crisis, which has enjoyed broad if nervous support from Congress since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
Others, including Rep. William Broomfield, R-Mich., the senior GOP member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, have voiced concern over the president's failure to consult broadly with Congress on the latest deployment. 
But Fitzwater said public support for Bush "has been very strong" and added: "We don't want to go to war. Presi­dent Bush will say the same things these congressmen are saying -be cautious, follow the policy, support the U.N. resolutions, consult with Congress." 
Bush has said he still hopes economic sanctions backed by United Nations resolutions and supported by most foreign nations will persuade Iraq to leave Kuwait without fighting. 
One senior congressional aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said lawmakers who have spent time among the voters in recent weeks are reflecting public unease with the gulf situation. The aide predicted that Bush would come under heavier fire from the Democratic-controlled Congress in the coming weeks. 
Senior administration offi­
cials, including Secretary of 
Defense Dick Cheney and 
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman 
Colin Powell, are to brief 

Apple introduces the Macintosh Classic. 
lawmakers on Tuesday for the first time since Congress adjourned Oct. 28. And members of the bipartisan leadership were scheduled to meet with Bush at the White House on Wednesday. 
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn, D-Ga., said he was not consulted about the latest troop buildup and received a call only Friday, the day after Bush announced itpublicly. 
"I haven't been told reasons why we have to rush this 

.. IfF~···.
thing," Nunn said in a .... "'"""
.···. 

.·>" .,, : .'
weekend television interview. 

"Why not let the embargo ·. -· ··=~w~ work? ... War should be the last option." Nunn said Bush has failed to explain, either to Congress or the American people, why the 
AP Photo 

liberation of Kuwait is "an in­Tears of sorrow terest so important we're will­
Druse women weep over the open coffin of Kamal Fares during his 
ing to spend thousands of 

funeral at his Druse village in Northern Israel. Fares was stabbed 
American lives, if necessary." 

to death by a Palestinian at the Jenin prison where he was a guard
Moynihan said he was 

as violence between Palestinians and Israelis continues. 
"stunned" by last week's developments, including the announcement that U.S. troops would not be rotated home from their gulf positions and the administration's conclusion that the United States is free under the United Nations charter to take whatever military action it wants. 
"That's the pattern of a country going to war," Moyni­han said. "He's decided, he's gone unilateral." 
Moynihan hypothetically ~ posed two newspaper head-• lines: "U.S. Invades Third World Country in Dispute Over Access to Raw Materials," and "World Unites in Support of Tiny Nation Overrun by Brutal Aggressor." 


I
Trying to stretch dollars when I 

you're computer shopping doesn't mean NOTRE DAME 
you're willing to make sacrifices. COMPUTER STORE That's why you should consider the new, affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer. It has everything you need-including amonitor, keyboard, mouse, 2megabytes of 
Office of University Computing RAM, and a40-megabyte hard disk. Just plug everything in and the Macintosh Classic is ready 
Computing Center/Math Building to run, because the system software is alreadyinstalled: And, thanks to the Macintosh · 
Phone: 239-7477 
computer's legendary ease ofuse, you'll be up and running in no time. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00
like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands ofavailable applications that all work in the same, consistent way-soonce you've learned one program, you're well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate that doesn't have trouble sharing. 
,

The Apple® 5uperDrive~standard equipment with every Macintosh-reads from and 
• . The power to be your best~
writes to Macintosh, M5-005, 05;2, and Apple II floppy disks, which means you can share 
• Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 mclude system software on floppy d•sks; software •s not 1nstalled
information with someone who uses adifferent type ofcomputer. 
~1990 Apple Comput~r, Inc. Apple. the Apple logo, and Macmtosh are reg1stered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. SuperDrive and power to be your best are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. Class•c IS a reg•stered trademark hcensed to Apple Computer Inc
See the Macintosh Classic for yourself It'll change your mind about cheap roommates. 

•s a registered trademark of M1crosoft Cor.poratton OS/2 •s a reg•stered trademark of lnterna!IOnal Bus1ness MaChines Corpo;at•on 



Viewpoint

Tuesday, November 13, 1990 page 9 

The ~Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Usa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. · 

LETTERS 

Poor planning insults those sensitive to racial issues 
Dear Editor: 
This Nov. 8, 1990, is indeed a day to remember. As I, with snveral hundred students, approached the CCE eager to see and hear Rosa Parks, we wnre stopped by someone rep­resenting authority who stopped us at the door with the intnntion of keeping us outside the building because the am­phitheater was full. 
It is ironic that those who planned the event chose such an inappropriate locale to host thn gathering of student body and faculty with Rosa Parks. Indend, their pnrception of our sensitivity to racial issues sold us -students of all ages, faculty and friends, blacks and non­blacks -short. 
Why wasn't a larger locale made available? The event could have been moved outside of the amphitheater to the atrium of the CCE building, the .IACC, Washington Hall, or even Sacrnd Heart Church. Those of us who hung around the build­ing, disappointed, humiliated and disgusted, waited for the miracle of common sense or practicality to happen. Instead, even some elderly women suf­fered the indignity of having to get on top of a precariously un­safe table situated outside of the auditorium in an attempt to sneak a view of Rosa and her soft-spoken voice.· So much for the human respect of persons of all ages. The rumor that a transcript would be made available somehow made me feel like poor Lazarus. Instead of experiencing a significant event, most of us who were there have to be grateful for the crumbs. 
What can those responsible do to redress this insult to Rosa Parks and to us who treasure social justice, human rights and the dignity of the individual, and of the black person in particular? Can they apologize for attempting to keep several of us outside the CCE building, hoping that we would just turn around and go home so as not to be conspicuously embarrassing for the or­ganizers? Apologize to the members of the black commu­nity who could not get close to their Rosa? Frankly, even though I felt insulted, I don't want an apology. I don't want this sort of thing to ever happen again. 
Just as I wanted to see and hear Rosa Parks, there are sev­eral members in this commu­nity who would have wanted to celebrate our common cause for the human rights of our black brothers and sisters. It is persons like her who particu­larly enable us to savor the monumental achievements in the quest for a better quality of life for all humankind. Her tes­timony is our victory. She is an example of what the common person can accomplish by standing up to what he or she 

Student Government explains reasons for locale, apologizes for inconvenience 
/Jear Hditor: 
On Nov. 8, Rosa Parks spoke at Notre Dame as part of Student Government's "Public Forum on Contemporary Issues." Much to our satisfac­tion. the turnout for the lecture was phenomenal. We interpret this as an overwhelming indica­tion of the Notre Dame com­munity's belief in the ideals which Rosa Parks represents. 
Unfortunately, we were un­able to accommodate everyone in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. We had been pursuing Rosa Parks since 

DOONESBURY 
April, and she was only able to confirm a date two weeks prior to her visit. The CCE was the only appropriate auditorium available to us at the time of Mrs. Parks' late acceptance of our invitation. Both Washington Hall and Cushing Auditorium were reserved that evening and could not be used. Upon the advice of the people who had heard Mrs. Parks speak, we decided that her voice would not be audible in the JACC or Stepan Center. Therefore, we chose the best option available, the CCE Auditorium. 
We apologize to those who were unable to see Rosa Parks. 
The lecture was videotaped, and we will be showing it on Wednesday, Nov. 14, at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Multipurpose Room. If you are unable to attend this showing, we will have copies of the video on reserve at the Hesburgh Library beginning Nov 14. 
Once again we apologize for the inconvenience. 
Rob Pasin Student Body President Fred Tombar lii Student Body Vice President Nov. 9, 1990 

believes needs to be challenged. She, like many others, is a re­demptive agent for all of human history, and yet, in her own way, exquisitely unique. Regretfully, what for us should have been a wonderful event, instead turned out to be just the opposite. 
It is obvious that there is a sensitivity on campus towards the racial issue. Let us cele­brate the achievements in this area, and let us all identify where and how improvement is called for. In concrete terms, I suggest that the University of Notre Dame readdress the issue of black dignity. Let us experi­ence a redemptive moment, in which all of us can meet and rejoice in the celebration of our uniqueness and what we have to contribute to each other as individuals, members of racial groups and diverse cultures. 
For the future, what do I recommend so that we who are part of this Catholic educational institution are made to feel integrally part of the University of Notre Dame? I suggest better planning and coordination of significant events. By offering participation to the University community in a decision­making process, everyone here would have the opportunity to be informed, make suggestions and be part of the decisional process. 
Rev.erend Aquilino Gonzalez Canovas Nov. 8, 1990 

Crowded seating at Rosa Parks' talk shows University's lack of priorities 
Dear Editor: 

Will you please tell me who planned the Rosa Parks lecture last night? I planned all week to hear her speak, only to find there was no room in the audi­torium twenty minutes before she was designated to speak. While Ms. Parks' popularity is understandable, the choice of venue made for her speech was absolutely inappropriate. The "Mother of the Civil Rights Movement," a major figure in American history, easily one of the gems of the speakers com­ing to Notre Dame this year, was not given a place to speak suitable to her top billing? 
While Student Body President Rob Pasin apologized for the lack of space, explaining, "it was the only place available," don't you think the University could have found some better accommodation for such a public figure? Where are the University's priorities? Even though I, too, idolize George Wendt as a champion beer­swiller and all-around funny guy, I question the fact that he had the privilege of the JACC to scream his lungs out for 45 seconds while one of the most courageous women in American history was given such an unfitting venue. The students who eame in throngs to see her were short-changed. 
Tom Conaghan 
Alumni Hall 
Nov. 9, 1990 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'You'll hate yourself at 50 if you don't take risks now.' 
Coordinator, SMC Ireland Program 
6COO MORNING, tAO/e5 ANO Ge/1/TtcMm.t I'M RJJNN!NG tATe, 50 t.&T 
page 10 Viewpoint Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
LETTERS 

Elitist attitudes unjustly stigmatize social science fields 
Dear Editor: 
Throughout the letter written by Dr. James J. Carberry (The Observer, Nov. 5), Carberry consistently stated, "It is per­ceived that..." This was am­biguous as to whether or not the said judgements reflected his ewn opinion. However, Dr. Carberry's final paragraph led me to deduce that the opinion of his subscribers closely paral­leled his own. Therefore, I will address my reaction to Dr. Carberry. 
I first must exclaim my sur­prise at the several ignorant and "tendentious" statements put forth by Dr. Carberry. I re­alize that his suggestion was that since the Notre Dame campus is "plagued by sports and social(ist) concerns," the university has suffered academ­ically; however, the first two (out of three) of his statements regarded the undergraduate liberal arts education, including cheap remarks made against the "Social (Pseudo) sciences" as being a field devoid of value. 
I would like to address to Dr. Carberry the perceived "folly" of the "Have-Method-Will­Measure Social (pseudo) Sciences and mindless trendy 'in' concerns. e.g. Gender and Peace Studies." Dr. Carberry, have you ever studied or been, say, a psychologist or social worker? An anthropologist? A woman? I hardly believe you can describe such studies as psychology, anthropology, gen­der studies, etc., as "shallow, indeed, hollow, pursuits of 'research"' without actually ex­periencing firsthand the bene­fits from these fields. 
As a psychology major and as an individual who has worked with and endeavored to help others with emotional prob­lems, I feel particularly per­turbed at the negative refer­ences directed toward the field of social science. I have wit­nessed firsthand the frustration and sense of helplessness people endure every day of their lives because they have been tortured, physically and mentally. Should I have chucked aside the boy who put a rifle to his head and pulled the trigger because he could not handle life? Should I have ignored the desperation for help that many kids felt because they had been raped by their fathers at the tender age of two and still feel fear and confusion ten to fourteen years later? Society should not research new ways to help the manically depressed, the schizophrenics who do not un­derstand their lives, or the abused, should it? The social sciences are worthless, right? 
Is giving individuals a taste of happiness or relief from their emotional pain worthwhile? Who would decrease the pain these children and adults suffer daily, a chemical engineer? a computer? Would these people who scoff at psychology feel differently if depression hit them or if they had experienced abuse and torture? 
If a person is hit by a car and breaks his leg, it is relatively easy to heal; however, it is not as easy to heal emotional wounds. People cannot help catching a cold, but somehow they think they should be able to prevent depression or other emotional problems. Simply be­cause we do not use engineer­ing methods to solve a problem does not mean that performing scientific research to solve other difficult problems, such as how to stop 1,000 more teenagers from committing sui­cide every day is not just as, if not more, important. Elitist at­



Lecture's scheduling difficulties reflect disturbing attitude at NO 
Dear Editor: 
On Nov. 8, we tried to attend the lecture given by Rosa Parks. Like many others, we were not able to see or hear her. The auditorium at the CCE was packed by 6:30, and the people who arrived later filled the lobby, hoping, if nothing else, to hear her. Unfortunately, the audio system alternated from not carrying her voice to distorting it, so as to make listening to her lecture impossible. To make matters worse, people were literally climbing the walls and jumping on chairs to catch a glimpse of this famous woman. Many people left the lecture out of frustration and disappointment. 
This situation could have been prevented H Rosa Parks had been scheduled to appear elsewhere. Larger facilities, such as Washington Hall, Stepan Center or the JACC, could have been used. We real­ize that Ms. Parks confirmed her speaking engagement at Notre Dame only two weeks prior to her arrival. However, we cannot believe that play re­hearsal at Washington Hall could not have been resched­uled or relocated. Similarly, the 
JACC  and  Stepan  Center  
seemed to  have  been  
unutilized.  

We have to wonder whether this lack of foresight is a re­flection of a disturbing attitude found at Notre Dame. Such an attitude seems to imply that an African American woman could not draw a large heterogeneous crowd to her lecture. This pa­tronizing attitude taken toward non-white, non-male speakers has been seen at Notre Dame before. 
During the Year of Cultural Diversity (1988-89), Sr. Thea Bowman, recipient of the 1990 Laetare Medal, spoke in Knott Hall's Chapel. Obviously, this facility was inadequate for Sister Bowman, just as the CCE was insufficient for Ms. Parks. Furthermore, Father Malloy did not attend the official reception dinner held for Sister Thea Bowman just as he did not meet with Rosa Parks before her lecture. As president of Notre Dame, his absence from these events seems to propagate this insensitive attitude towards non-traditional speakers. We realize that there were many demands upon Father Malloy's time, but his presence would have been encouraging and supportive towards the Year of Cultural Diversity and the Year of Women. 
As this Year of Women pro­gresses, we hope that the speakers as well as the atti­tudes taken towards these speakers will better reflect tol­erance and respect towards all. 
Anita Varkey, Roberta L. Bryer Pasquerilla West Nov. 11, 1990 
titudes should not exist when the welfare of society is the is­sue at hand. 
It is very disturbing that in this modern society there still exists such negative stigmas regarding psychology or any­thing other than a "pure" science (or areas dealing solely with numbers or "facts"). I am not in the field of chemical engineering, but I will acknowl­edge that it has some kind of purpose or value. So, too, do psychology and all of the other social sciences have value in society. 

I cannot comment personally on all of the other areas Dr. Carberry libeled (though I am positive he knows all about those "mindless" issues con­cerning women....); however, with the callous remarks Dr. Carberry, as a professional, put forth in his letter, I can only hope that he himself is not drafted for a peaceless war or come down with a nasty case of winter depression. 
Malene H. Terry Pasquerilla West Nov. 5, 1990 




'Shallow' disciplines search for truth, voice concerns of cultural minorities 
Dear Editor: 
As undergraduates in the quest for intellectual growth, we were absolutely appalled at the close-mindedness of Professor James Carberry, who wrote in response to the recent 
U.S. News and World Report's ranking of national universities (The Observer, Nov. 5). While we appreciate Professor Carberry's attempt to enlighten us as to the reasons of our falling status, he undermines this endeavor through his running commentary. His references to social concerns as socialist and social sciences as pseudo-sciences devalue his attempts at objective criticism. 
One reason he puts forth for our decline in rank is our "shallow, indeed hollow, pursuit of 'research' in areas of sheer tendentious folly," areas such as Deconstructionism, the Gender Studies Program, and Peace Studies. He basically writes in opposition to any change in the accepted intellectual canons and any search for traditions that have been lost in the construction of academic disciplines. Professor Carberry's comments are even more shocking if we consider the history of progress in his own discipline through questioning, discovery and innovation. For example, through Einstein's challenge to the existing doctrine, he revolutionized the concepts of space and time. 

Does Professor Carberry mean to say that the attempts of scholars at Notre Dame to delve deeper into the disciplines to recover the voices of the feminine as well as the masculine, of cultural minorities as well as dominant groups, and of negotiators as well as aggressors are shallow pursuits? It sounds more like a search for an understanding of reality to us -a deconstruction of the folly that only lets us see the partial truth of our rich multidisciplinary tradition in the liberal arts. 
If the persons responsible for the rankings in the U.S. News and World Report pass judgement as the author of the Nov. 5 letter does, should we really care how we are ranked by them? 
Ellen Feeney Sue Fitzgerald Kristen Stamile Breen-Philips Hall Nov. 8, 1990 


Dear Editor: me. He claimed that he had a frighten us, real people and lax 
To quote Laurie Lesniewski, knife and a gun, and he held a attitudes about our security do. (The Observer, Nov. 7). "It sharp stick to my throat.... This Now that your laughter has never fails to amaze me how a man is still at large." Clearly, been heard, would your cries group of supposedly intelligent there are people in this be heard as loudly in the event people can be so irretrievably community who wish to do us that your dismissal of the im­gullable." This is, most unfor­harm. portance of security leads to tunately, true. We, a collegiate the violation of you or another? people, have managed to con­This is where the terror felt Instead of wasting creative en­vince ourselves that many at Saint Mary's becomes vali­ergy on mockery, why not use popularly held beliefs are valid. dated. Had the rumor remained it towards the eradication of First and foremost is that our contained on Saint Mary's the causes of our fears? Why Saint Mary's/Notre Dame campus, it would have been not use it towards the fortifica­community is a safe one. It has dismissed as a prank. We tion of our security? There is a been repeatedly evidenced that knew, however, that it had gone logical explanation as to whystudents are at risk. How many far beyond this point when a such a fantastical rumor as an attempted or successful attacks fellow student returned from ax-wielding Bo Peep has the will it take before our safety is observing a local kindergarten power to "spread like wildfire"; considered seriously? One re­class, amazed at the children's we all have a genuine and valid cent proof of our vulnerability frightened whispers concerning concern for our well-being and was presented in mid-October. the prophesied ax murders at safety. Sa~nt Mary's security posted a Saint Mary's. If even one un­report detailing an attempted stable individual (and, from We do not live in a utopian rape. The victim amended this numerous attacks, we know society. Our security is a seri­report, attaching a notice in­there is at least one) heard the ous issue. sisting that what had been pre­rumors and believed he was sented was but a glossing over the one spoken of in the Diane Florin of the incident. She writes, prophesy, what harm this Tricia O'Brien "This man did not want to rape "harmless rumor" could have Regina South me. He said he was going to kill caused. Prophesies do not Oct. 7, 1990 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-.-----~~.---~--------------------------------~--~~
l 
-

I


Accent ~ I 
I 
l 
I I 
I 
. J 
Tuesday, November13, 1990 page 11 
' 

WALKING ON AIR 
More and more people are sacrificing beauty for comfort with Birkenstocks 
By ELIZABETH VIDA right across the street from wear Birkenstock sandals have Accent Writer Eduardo's Pizza). has been their egos intact," Sarno ad­selling the line of shoes for mits. "They've got to value 
.Jerusalem Cruisers. Jesus about five years. Salty Sarno, comfort over the latest fash­Sandals. You'vt~ seen them co-owner of the shoe store, said ion." around -they're hard to miss. of the emerging popularity of Wearing Birkenstocks is def­But where do thosP. odd-looking the sandals, "The shoes are initely an individualistic state­sandals come from, and why really popular out West, and in ment. But there's got to be arn so many people wearing resort areas. In some places in something there that would tlwm? Florida, every tenth person make so many people wear 
Those unique sandals are ac­seems to be wearing them. Out them. Sarno says of the shoe's tually one style in a line of in California, it's the same story. unique tit, "It's like walking in shoes from (;ermany, called Harrison Ford, Lily Tomlin, and sand all the time. People who Birkenstocks. Birkenstocks are Madonna all swear by them." used to walk around at home in a fairly recent import to thP. In Northern Indiana, how­their stocking feet or barefoot Unitml States. The Birkenstock ever, the style has yet to be­wear their Birkenstocks around family crnatnd the basic design come a major shoe trend. instead." for the shoes over 200 years "Maybe in five years or so, ago, and they have been all when everyone has tried them The shoes are certainly com­ov11r Europe for much longer on, we'll see more of them," fortable, and the main reason also very sturdy. "One man are for the full-size shoes. than here in the U.S. Sarno hypothesizes. for that is their orthopedic de­brought a 12-year-old pair of The sandals cost around $75, 
The only r11taiter in the area sign, with a built-in arch, toe Birkenstocks into the shop for a although you can get them in for the shoes, Ernie's Shoe So what makes the shoe so ridges, and low heel. Several new heel. A lot of people come the $50 range for synthetic up­Hepair in downtown South spndal? Is it thn trim, stream­doctors who bought their san­in with pairs they've had for pers, and it's even less expen­Bend (22S S. Michigan Street, line styling? "Most people who dals from Sarno have written eight, nine years for new heels. sive for the children's 
testimonials for the shoes. One I've never had a case of a strap Birkenstocks. doctor was so impressed with breaking." the shoes he bought them for a Wearing Birkenstocks takes a 
gift. Birkenstock sandals fit ev­certain type of person, and to eryone, from children's sizes to those people, the rewards of 
Orthopedic doctors recom­a women's size four to a man's wearing the shoe outweigh the mend the shoes, especially for seventeen. They also come in beauty of a nice pair of tight but people who suffer from heel various widths. In winter, the aesthetically pleasing Italian spurs, a condition that eight out sales for the sandals slow, even pumps. In an example of a of ten people have, and don't though a lot of people wear the Birkenstock convert, Sarno re­know until they injure their sandals with heavy socks. "In calls a woman who bought a feet. The sandals take the Minnesota, some people wear pair and then proceeded to 
weight off the ball of the foot. the sandals with socks out in throw out all her other shoes. 
"You can wear the shoes all the snow, because the snow is "She only wears Birkenstocks day, walking around -they very dry. The sandals keep the now." stay comfortable much longer blood circulating, so your feet Call them Jesus Sandals, or than gym shoes. And the low stay warm," says Sarno. Jerusalem Cruisers, or even 
heel is better for your back," Usually, though, most ugly, but to those who wear Sarno adds. The sandals are Birkenstock sales in the winter them, they're wonderful. 
Ireland's An Emotional Fish makes a strong debut 
By FRAN MOYER I'm going home," while at the Accent Writer same time Dave Frew cranks 
What would you call some­up the intensity of his dark gui­thing that soundnd like a com­tar playing. This combination bination of .Joy Division hoppnd sends the song into a frenzied, up on bnnnins, thn Velvet yet deeply moody emotional trip UmJj~rgrmmd, and thP. Doors? I that examines the human psy­don't know eith11r, but it is the che. Wow, did I just say that? closnst thing I could think of to I'm really sorry, but I am a PLS dnscrilw the self-titled debut major. album by Ireland's An Emotional Fish. With the exception of "Lace 
As I sat down to listnn to the Virginia," the rest of side one is album. I was ready to hear thn lnss than desirable. "Grey sanw old progressive music Matter" (not to be confused that has become oh so preva­with Oingo Boingo's hit), "Blue," lent in today's oppressive male and "Julian," all lack any sense corporate world. But, when I of intensity and are reduced to !ward thn first song, more or less sappy songs with ­"Ce In bratl~," I found mysnl f meaningless lyrics. For questioning my initial negative example, in "Grey Matter," attitude towards An Emotional Whelan sings "I drilled a hole in Fish. my head to let the sun shine 
through." Maybe one of you can tnll me just exactly what that is The moment one begins supposed to mean, because I don't have a clue.
to listen to the second 
"Lace Virginia," however, is a side of this album, one very good song. This song finds Whelan howling like a banshee,
begins to realize that this 
an ever quickening drum line,band is not your typical and grinding guitar riffs, all of deep. Apocalyptic Megaton Rhynos people. No, this song has an at­which combine to produce a The first song on the second (made famous by the Sex Gang titude. It is intense, harsh and
alternative band that tries 
sound very similar to Joy side, "All I Am," sounds as if Children), destroy the not easy to dance to, although
to be different and deep. 
Division. if and only if they had Lou Reed killed Whelan and "Doogiesque" norms of the trite there is a pretty cool sax solo in 
-
a hit or two of acid. took over the vocals. The initial and hackneyed Top 40 empire. the background. If for no other 
"Cnlebrate" is one of the best serenity of the song, however, is reason, you should buy this songs on tlw album. It begins All I can say is that An soon shattered by the explosion "Colours" (not to be confused record just for this song. with a heavy bass linn, which is Emotional Fish should be glad of a heavy drum beat and the with that rap song from Sean quickly overshadowed by the they had a second side to their insane rantings of Whelan Penn's cinematic masterpiece) An Emotional Fish's debut introduction of a folky guitar album because it is what saves (Heed?). and "Brick it Up" (which re­album is worth the money. It is motif. As the song progresses, this album from the critic's peats the line "Brick it Up" over full of maniacal screams, death­­tho beat pieks up and momen­damnation. The moment one This progression from placid twenty times) are the only pit­like bass and guitar parts, and tum increases. Vocalist Gt~rald begins to listen to the second euphony to tumultuous ca­falls on this second side. the heavy, monotonous beat of Wlwlan senms to become pos­side of this album, one begins cophony is also evident in the The best song on the album is a drum. So, go out and buy this sessed by the spirit of Jim to believe that this band is not stirring "Chance," in which the Kafkaesque "That Demon album and support this Morrison, as hn screams, your typical alternative band primal wailings, the likes of Jive." This song is not for you unknown Irish band, you won't "CPlebrate. This party's over. that tries to be different and which would wake those Post-soft edged New Wave big hair be sorry. 
• 




Tuesday, November 13, 1990
page 12 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
r ­
NEAR N.D. Duplex available. PARENTS NEED 2 PENN STATE 

NEED 4 PENN STATE TIX Help!! Need one Penn State GA 1 bdrm-$265 GAs! WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL 
PREFER GA'S. CALL MATT for Poor Relative. thanks, X3821
NOTICES 
2bdrm-$360 RAJA AT x1678. 

277-7371 Call Kevin 1589 dep., references 
I need PSU stud. tickets 616-483-9572. •• WE NEED .. •.......Heeeelllllppp!!.....
NEED PENN ST. G.A. TIX. CALL call 288-3354 TYPING AVAILABLE PENN STATE 
JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M. Support your local Prof · sell 287-4082 Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap TIXI 
BEFORE 11P.M. 2 GA's for Penn State to him. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 15 min. Walking from Campus X4079 
call239-7831 or 234-1972. I Need PSU GA's Typing Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 
Need Penn St. GAs. Please call Call 288-0597 Pickup & Delivery Bob x3234 FOR SALE: 2 PENN STATE 
Darrell at 283-3302. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 277-7406 MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS. 
Need Penn St GA's 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, CALL 277-9869. 
PENN STATE: Need several GAs. Sharon 284-5089 MONEY I'LL GIVE YOU $$FOR BOOKS or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., 
Call 289-6046. MONEY LOTS OF IT IF Used Texts bought and sold washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or NEED 4 PENST GA TIX-YOU 
Need 1 Penn. State GA, Stan MONEY YOU CAN SELL ME Pandora's Books 233-2342 288-5653 NAME PRICE-IF 
TO SELL: PENN ST-STUD 2742 HONEY PENN ST. GA'S. corner of NO ave and Howard TOGETHER=MORE $$ 
X2909 #1567 
I NEED 4 OF THEM. PLEASE


FOR SALE

NEED A RESUME? 
HAVE LOTS OF MONEY. ... AND NEED PENN TIX HELP ME. NEED I BEG? CALL Give us a call at 239-7471 or stop LARGE MARGE needs 2 G.A.s 
WE NEED A TON OF PENN 4 GA's & 4 STUD.$$ FLO X 1696 by our office in and 2 studs for PENN ST. 284­
STATE TIX. CALL 287-3087 MARI0#2440 314 LaFortune Student Center. FOR SALE 1985 BUICK REGAL 5201 
Need PENN STATE GA's. Call VERY GOOD CONDITION 76,000 
I need STUD TIX for PENN ST!I WANTED: 2-4 GEN. ADM. Woody at x4653. OBSERVER TYPESETTING MILES ,2 DOOR,AC $3600. OR 4 Penn St Stud Tix for sale Best 
Chris 273-9468 TICKETS AT OR NEAR COST TO BEST OFFER. CALL 233-5316 offer X4823,4819 
N.D.-PENN.ST. CALL MIKE AT I need 2 PENN ST GAs Help!! I need any 3 Penn St. 288-7361 OR 256-0969. call Lynne x2687 

LOST/FOUND ) 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S Need two Penn St. GAs and one 
tix. Call Mary at x1292. FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE stud tix. Darrell 283-3302. 

need penn stu/ga Need Penn State GA's!l >>>LOST<<< NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S. jill2633 Call Amiee at 284-5411 -BRACELET OF GOLD LETTERS 1364 PLEASE HELP 
PLEASE CALL DAVE X1045. which spell PLEASE ME 
I need 2 Penn State GAs. WILL DO ANYTHING FOR I LOVE YOU Plane ticket to Boston for sale: PLEASE ! 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME x2718 PENN STATE GA's!! call Obvious sentimental value L-11/20 R-11/25 I HAVE RELATIVES COMING, 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Kristin at 284-4350 REWARD ....ONLY $190:••••• AND NEED 4 PENN. ST. GA'S. I 
CALL 273-1364 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 288-7976 Please call x4809 WILL PAY LOTS OF CASH FOR 
NEED PSU GA'S-TOM x1653 I NEED ONE PENN STATE THEM. FLO x 1696 
Need 1 Penn Stud $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STUD. LOST: A FOR SALE !I Crate G-60 guitar 
Amy x1343 CALL MIKE X4022 Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 amplifier ... mint condition, ...THREE beautiful young ladies 
Need Penn St Stud & GAs somewhere between P.W. and the tremendous sound ..... give-away are visiting me next weekend. 
$$$$$ Todd X1724 Have 2 USC GA's lake. Please return-great price. 2 channels/built-in Please sell me your Penn St. tix! 
need 2 PSU GA's ·sentimental value! reverb/12"celestian speaker. A Kevin 289-7221 
I need 2 Penn State GA's Need 1 USC ticket-X3731 Bob x1081 ••••••REWARD•••••• personal favorite of Yngwie 
Call Katie x3771 call Kate or Amy at 4550. Malmsteen, the cornerstone of his NEED PENN ST. GA'S 
I Need PSU Tix-Stud.or GA Please help! sound .... make it yours today .... CALL MARK OR KEVIN 
$$$$$ $$$Derek 234-3356$$$ Mom is coming for Penn St. I Lost-on 11/3 Dark red and black Call #1732 and ask for Scott or 289-5542 
have to get a GA. x2448, camera -35mm-dropped by the Alex Lifeson. 
Need 2 Penn St GA's 2 USC GA'S leave a message if no answer. Grotto or on the shuttle. II you NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S 
Call Tim x1368 you want 'em, I got 'em picked it up, please call Jenny Gorgeous Brown 1980 Custom CALL JIM @1750 
SCOTT 4561 -serious offers 
284-4055. Dodge Van PERSONALS
Need 4 Penn St GA's. New clutch and muffler NEED 2+ PSU GA's 

Call x2891. I'll take 2 PSU GA's please. Interior completely carpeted 2+ USC TIX 
John 234-5840 hiagLOST: On Nov. 6, a gold Sunroof and rear ceiling vent CALL PETE 288-5869 
NEEDGA'S pendant, possibly on Stepan Slant-6 engine and body in great 
PENN & USC ############# I need your help. Fields, but it could be shape I Need 2 Penn St studs. Bill 
272-9770 Beer Pounding RICH Uncle anywhere on campus. It's a Highway miles X1583 
Coming to NO. Need 1 GA for Do you own an American Express dove with three circles 
$$$$ Needed $$$$ Penn State. Keven #2201 Card? around it, and it's about half Call Mark x2506 HEY! I'M IN DESPERATE NEED 
Penn State Std.'s and GA.'s an inch tall and half an inch OF PENN STATE TICKETS­
Ed@ 277-8974 or Jon X4022 Do you have a travel voucher you wide. Please call Elizabeth I have FOUR USC Tix studs or GA's. Will pay BIG 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE TICKETS! will not be using? at 40971 Julie at x2950 BUCKS. Call Margaret #2286 
Need tix for PENN ST. GAME. STUDENT OR GA. CALL BRIAN A friend from high school invited Will pay anything!!! Please Call AT 273-1740 me to his semi-formal at his LOST: All I need are PS tixs 
Kerry at 284-5073 and leave college.
2 footballs at Stepan field TICKETS GAorstud 
message!!! NEEDED: Two Penn St. GAs. I don't know how I'm going to getafter the FARLEY/LEWIS game call Matt x2474 
Call Matt at 288-7568. there. on Nov. 4. One says NVA 5 and NEED PENN ST. TICKETS 
Need One Stud. Ticket for the other says Jay Shrader. need penn st. stud tix 
Penn St. call MATT x2052 I need Penn State students If you won't be using your travel Call Kate @x4071. CALL SAM X4013 x1581 tom 
and GA's. Call Kim 289-1440. voucher, maybe we can make a BIG brothers coming and I need deal! LOST LOST LOST LOST Need 3 Penn St. stud. tix NEED: 4 PENN ST GA'SI!I! 
Penn State tickets! 3 GAs! $$$ I need Penn State GAs and GREEN NO SPIRAL JARED X4246 
Caryn 289-9417 student tix. John 288-1768 Call Cris @ X4842 NOTEBOOK IN HURLEY Call Jeff at X1655 
Best time to call: 5-7pm. thanx. ON THURSDAY 11/8/90. PENN STATE TIX; need 1 
NEED 4 PENN ST. GA's CONTAINS THEOLGY student; call John x3372 
I NEED TWO PENN STATE G.A.'s BIG$$$. Short blonde needs riders to and NOTES. IF ANY INFO, WINDCHILL 
CALL STEVE AT 273-9471. after8pm. from Atlanta for Christmas break. PLEASE CALL BARBARA FROSTBITE We Need Penn St. GA's and 
Rob 259-3268 Can leave anytime after Monday AT X 4030, 235 FARLEY. NOV17 Studs. Will pay big $$$$. 
I NEED 4 PENN ST GA's of finals week. Please call 273· PENN ST Call Bob or Jeff at x2235 
CALL JOHN x4141 FAMILY COMING FROM CALIF. 2078 Ask for Jeannie. LOST LOST A brown leather Need I say more? 
NEED TWO PENN ST. STUD OR FOSSIL WATCH with a brown Ryan need 2 stud tix NEED 4 GA PENN ST. TIX. CALL 
I REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. GA: X1930 BRIGHTEN SOMEONE'S DAY granite face was lost in La Fortune x1048 MATT 1-800-223-6559. 
G.A.s. CALL X1479, VINCE with balloons from Irish Gardens!l on Nov. 6 sometime between 8pm 
WE NEED PENN ST GA'S AND and 12am. 1 would really like to $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ for sale: 2 p.s. married 
Need 2 Penn St. GA's. Call John STDTIX Top 10 Quotes from Japan: get it back because it was a gift Wealthy Physician to Pay student tix 
(x1177). CALL DAN OR PAT 234·8608 from my Mom !I I'd really Big Bucks for PENN STATE 
1Q-Pulling an Ann Marie appreciate it if you would please G.A.'s or STUDS Help! I Need 2 Penn State GAs. 
We need LOTS of DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO 9--Holy Chowder! S.O. Dude! call Karen 284-5023. x 1935 ask for Alex Be a friend and sell me yours. 
Penn St. GA's! PENN ST. STUDENT TICKETS! 8-Hey Matt, Curry Rice Again? $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Top dollar paid! 
Call Sara or Barb x4419 7-l'm sooo hungry!LOST, RED LOOSELEAF Call Giuseppe @ 283-1563 
If you have tickets you're willing to 6-Chiisai Katsudo? Doozo Dare BINDER I NEED PENN ST & Tenn 
I NEED PENN ST TIX sell please call Kara? Dare Demo ii Desu 
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL tixs.272-6306 
REBECCA X4329 Rob (x3580) 5--You Gatta Get it From 234-7156 
Somewhere ACADEMIC LIFE AT STAKE! II !IIIII HELPI HELP! I NEED 
NEED PENN STATE STUDENT NEED 2 Penn ST GAs 4-M.C. Anvil and His Sidekick Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355 HELP!!!!! 
OR GA TICKET. CALL PAUL for sister and her husband Hook-UpI NEED 4 PENN GA'S. EITHER 
AT 271-9950. CALL Doug X1 087 3-You Breed? 4 TOGETHER OR 2&2. CALL 
2-Mochiron Ofuro De Senzurio 

., WANTED J Need 
COREY @1351. WILL PAY BIG $. 

NEED 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST. TRUST ME, I NEED A PENN ST. Kakimasu 
two CALL CHRIS x1067 TICKET MORE THAN THEY DO. 1-8o, Is this like the Blind Capital EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAYI Penn NEED PENNST TIX 287­
PLEASE HELP, CALL JOHN AT of the World, or What? 
ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT State 2218,MIKE 
I NEED USC TIX!! CALL STEVE 277-9648 -WILL PAY$$$. HOME. GAs. 
273-9472 P.S. Hey Tina, stay out of trouble CALL FOR INFORMATION. Jay Help: I need 4 PSU Student Tix 
For a really great Penn State you goddess of Viruses. 504-641-8003 EXT. 6840 x2290 for NJ Bra's. Call Lee at 277-9365 
S.O.S. We need Penn St. TIX student ticket, call x3033. Remember, no one EXPECTED 
Call Bob at x1170. Pearl Harbor! miss you, MO. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's 
I need Penn. St. GA's 
HELP WANTED: Earn up to $700 HAVE 4 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST CALL x4285 NEED PSU GA OR STUDENT Marty @ 288-1768 after 6PM I need 2 Penn State GA's 
wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start BEST OFFER 271-0999 
TIX Molly x4189 immediately. Work at home. For Hw········· 
TERRI4837 I need 4 Penn State GA's, info send SASEto: $$$$$ I need 1 PENN ST student 
preferably together, but will settle Two need ride to NJ for VicKorp, P.O. Box 750, Notre ticket. If you have one, please call 
I Need Penn St tix, studs and for 2 pair. Call277-9358 Thanksgiving-we'll help Dame, IN 46556. Need 5 USC tix Pam at X4858. 
GAs, call x3501 evenings-Brad. pay . Please call Alison 
Call Arthur x1610 Thanks! 

X4831 X X X X X X X X X X Need two Penn State 
Earn $300 to $500 per week $$$$$ $$$$$$BIG BUCKS PAID$$$$$$ stud. tix call Jim at PW FOOTBALL 
Reading Books at home. Call FOR PENN STATE GA'S REQUIRE 2 PENN ST GA'S X1910 or x1911 We should all be happy knowing 
1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. JOHN PLEASE CALL JEN X4827 
OR 1 STUDENT. that we ARE the best! 
271-0452. 

CALL JEFF@277-3998 A BIG thanks to Dave, Mike, & Meat for giving us the leadership 
Help! Two people need ride to NEED: PENN ST. GA's 
xxxxxxxxxx NEED 4 PSU GA'S to bring us together as a team.
Rochester for Thanksgiving. call TRACY @273-9033 I need Penn State GAs and 
ARNOLD X3333 CALL LATE THANKS also to EVERYone on
Buffalo is close enough. Call Tim student tickets. Call X1650. 
NEED 1 Penn GA the team for your time, dedication, 
Bauman at 287-9564 or Sarah at $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$N 
Amy x1343 NEED PENN ST GAS and spirit. EVERYONE on the
4901. EEDED DESPERATELY! Two CALL CHRIS X2274 team was an invaluable player!! 
Penn State Student Tix. Call Jon 
I NEED Penn St. tickets Paul at X4115. 
Thanks, C 
Student and GAs 


FOR RENT 
I NEED 1 PENN ST. GA or 

Call Mark at x2506 I NEED PENN ST. G.A.'S STUDENT TICKET Beth x1267 
CALLX2012 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Need 4 Penn State GA's call 
I'LL BUY YOUR PENN. ST. 219-291-7153 at 2786; if not in leave message SALE: 2 PENN ST GAs. CALL 
STUD. HEYHEYHEYI 
see CLASS I page 16
233-7198 WITH B.O. 

TIX. CALL GREG X1594 Make my day Sell me 2 Penn GA's 


Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
ISchool/Record  Pomts  
1. Notre Dame 8-1-0 (1) [55)  1,495  
2. Colorado 9-1-1 (4) {5]  1,419  
3. Miami, Fla. 6-2-0 (5)  1,349  
4. Georgia Tech 8-0-1 (7)  1,207  
5. Brigham Young 8-1-0 (8)  1,206  
6. Florida 8-1-0 (10)  1,163  
7. Texas 7-1-0 (14)  1,149  
8. Virginia8-1-0(11)  1,064  
9. Florida St. 7-2-0 (12)  1,001  
10. Washington 8-2-0 (2)  992  
11. Nebraska 9-1-0 (13)  897  
12. Houston 8-1-0 (3)  806  
13. Iowa 7-2-0 (6)  749  
14. Tennessee 5-2-2 (9)  725  
15. Mississippi8-1-0 (16)  693  
16. Michigan 6-3-0 (19)  600  
17. Clemson 8-2-0 (18)  576  
18. Penn St. 7-2-0 (21)  495  
19. Southern Cal. 7-2-1 (23)  323  
20. Louisville 9-1-1 (22)  311  
21. Ohio St. 6-2-1 (-)  304  
22. Illinois 6-3-0 (17)  236  
23. Michigan St. 5-3-1 (24)  206  
24. Auburn 6-2-1 (15)  172  
25. Southern Miss. 8-3-0 (·)  85  

...

Others receiving votes : California 82, Oklahoma, 69, Texas A&M 58 Oregon 21, San Jose St. 16, Colorado St. 15, Wyoming 6, Ala­bama 5, Baylor 2. C. Miichigan 2, UCLA 1. 
()-last week's rankmg [) • flfst-place votes bold facfl -NO opponents 
Women's lnterhall Football Playoffs 
11 B.P. 14 

P.W. 8 


It's never too late! i·---"'·'""\•
1,.·· 

At Observer Typesetting we work \ \ around the clock to ensure you have what you need when you need it. We offer a complete range of desktop publishing services including: text and image scanning, Linotronic imagesetting, typesetting and resume production. All work is completed in 24 hours. Guaranteed! 
NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East  
W  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  
Bulfalo  8  0  .889  274 150  
Miami  8  0  .889  192  96  
NY Jets  4  6  0  .400  178 21 6  
lndnplls  3  6  0  .333  125 196  
N England  1  8  0  .111  130 257  
Central  
Clncnnati  5  4  0  .556  212 225  
Pttsburgh  5  4  0  .556  171 147  
Houston  4  5  0  .444  194 169  
Cleveland  2  7  0  .222  128 235  
West  
LA Raidrs  6  3  0  .667  170 137  
Kan. City  5  4  0  .556  192 138  
San Diego  5  5  0  .500  214 163  
Seattle  4  5  0  .444  175 182  
Denver  3  6  0  .333  197 224  
NATIONAL CONFE REN CE  
East  
W  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  
NYGiants  9  0  0  1.000  226 11 0  
Phi Ia  5  4  0  .556  227 1 86  
Washingtn  5  4  0  .556  199 169  
Dallas  3  7  0  .300  125 204  
Phoenix  2  7  0  .222  117 240  
Central  
Chicago  8  1  0  .889  229 126  
Green Bay  4  5  0  .444  176 196  
Tampa Bay 4  6  0  .400  1 70  243  
Detroit  3  6  0  .333  213 237  
Minesota  3  6  0  .333  194 188  
West  

San Fran 9 0 0 1.000 222 144 New Orlns 4 5 0 .444 171 1 64 Atlanta 3 6 0 .333 232 251 
LARams 3 6 0 .333 198 258 
Monday's Game Philadelphia 28, Washington 14 
Sunday, Nov. 18 Detroit at New York Giants, 1 p.m. Houston at Cleveland, 1 p.m. New England at Buffalo, 1 p.m. New Orleans at Washington, 1 p.m. Philadelphia at Allanta, 1 p.m. San Diego at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Chicago at Denver, 4 p.m. Dallas at Los Angeles Rams. 4 p.m. Green Bay at Phoenox, 4 p.m. Minnesota at Seattle, 4 p.m. New York Jets at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. Tampa Bay at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 8 p.m. Monday. Nov. 19 Los Angeles Raiders at Miami, 9 p.m. 

(' 
\ •,\
' 
· , \ 
~ 
Give us a call at 239-7471 or stop by our office at 314 LaFortune Student Center to learn more about how our low prices and high quality can help you. 
ffiBffiE observer typesetting ffiBffiE 

Scoreboard 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division 
W L T Pis GF GA NY Rangers 13 6 1 27 82 51 Philadelphia 11 8 0 22 71 65 Washington 10 9 0 20 61 60 New Jersey 9 8 1 19 65 60 Pittsburgh 8 7 2 18 75 6 5 NY Islanders 7 10 0 14 51 6 8 Adams Division Boston 10 5 3 23 56 58 Montreal 10 7 2 22 61 57 Buffalo 7 6 4 18 58 50 Hartford 5 9 3 13 41 56 Quebec 3 13 3 9 49 78 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Dlvlalon 
W L T Pts GF GA Chicago 12 6 2 26 66 45 St. Louis 12 4 1 25 61 43 Detroit 7 8 3 17 63 74 Minnesota 4 1o 4 12 47 65 Toronto 3 16 1 7 54 96 Smythe Division Los Angeles 12 4 25 78 51 Calgary 12 7 25 86 62 Vancouver 9 9 0 18 54 61 Winnipeg 7 10 2 16 60 63 Edmonton 2 11 2 6 39 51 Monday's Game 
Toronto 5, Winnipeg 2 Tuesday's Games 
N.Y Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Montreal al New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. Pittsburgh at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. Quebec at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games Chicago at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Boston at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Washington at Toronto, 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Vancouver at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Buffalo at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
NHL LINESCORE 
Winnipeg 0 Toronto 2 
First Perlod-1, Toronto. Shedden 1 (Fenton, Clark), 7:54. 2, Toronto, Shedden 2 (Damphousse, Gill), 10:50. Penalties-Cole, Win (holding), 5:51; Marois, Tor (tripping), 13:09; Marois, Tor, double minor (high­sticking, roughing), 17:14; Sykes, Win (high­sticking). 17:14. 
Second Parlod-3, Winnipeg, Olczyk 5 (Osborne), 5:27. 4. Toronto, Damphousse 8 (Marois), 17:46. Penalty-Mantha. Win (tripping), 13:10. 
Third Perlod-5, Winnipeg, Kumpel 2 (Numminen), 2:22. 6, Toronto, Clark 6 (Iafrate), 10:38. 7, Toronto, Reid 7 (Hannan) 
19:24 (sh-en). Penalties-Cronin. Win (roughing), 3:37; Marois, Tor (roughing), 3:37; Donnelly, Win (high-sticking), 15:30; Ellett, Tor (high-sticking), 19:13. 
Shots on goal-Winnipeg 6-10-7-23. Toronto 15-9-9-33. 
O
Power-play Opportunities-Winnipeg of 3; Toronto 0 of 3. 
Goalies-Winnipeg, Essensa, 5-2-0 (32 shots-28 saves). Toronto, Reese, 1-4-1 (23-21). 
A-15,610. 
NFL BOX 
Washington 0 7 0 7-14 Philadelphia 7 0 21 Q-28 Phi-Frlzzell 30 interception return (Ruzek kick), 11 :28 1. Wash-Warren 8 pass from Rutledge (Lohmiller kick), :05 2. Phi-Sherman 9 pass from Byars (Ruzek kick), 11 :09 3 Phi-Simmons 18 fumble return (Ruzek kick), 12:19 3. Phi-Sherman 2 pass from Cunningham (Ruzek kick), 14:59 3. Was-Mitchell 1 run (Lohmiller kick), 14:16 4. A-65,857. 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

Atlantic  Division  
W  L  Pet  GB  Streak  
Boston  4  1  .800  Won 1  
New York  4  2  .667  1/2 Won 3  
Miami  2  2  .500  11/2 Won 1  
Philadelphia  2  3  .400  2  Lost 3  
Washington  2  3  .400  2  Won 1  
New Jersey  5  .167  31/2 Lost 2  
Central  Division  
Atlanta  4  1  .800  Won 1  
Milwaukee  4  1  .800  Won4  
Detroit  3  2  .600  Lost 1  
Indiana  3  2  .600  Lost 1  
Chicago  3  3  .500  11/2Won3  
Cleveland  3  3  .500  11/2Won 1  
Charlotte  2  4  .333  21/2 Lost 3  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midwest  Division  
W  L  Pet  GB  Streak  
Dallas  4  1  .800  Won4  
San Antonio  3  1  .750  1/2 Won 1  
Houston  3  3  .500  11/2 Won 1  
Minnesota  3  3  .500  11/2 Won 2  
Utah  2  2  .500  11/2 Lost 1  
Denver  0  6  .000  41/2 Lost 6  
Orlando  0  6  .000  41/2 Lost 6  
Pacific  Division  
Portland  5  0  1.000  Won5  
Phoenix  3  .750  1112 Won 2  
Seattle  3  .750  11/2 Lost 1  
Golden State  4  2  .667  11/2 Won 2  
LA  Clippers  2  4  .333  31/2 Lost 4  
LA Lakers  3  .250  31/2 Lost 1  
Sacramento  0  5  .000  5  Lost 5  
Monday's  Game  

Washington 97, New Jersey 92 
Tuesday's Games Cleveland at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Washington at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Miami at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Golden State, 8 p.m. Minnesota at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Boston at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Chicago at Utah: 9:30 p.m. New York at Seattle. 10 p.m. Phoenix at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Denver at Portland. 10:30 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games 
Charlotte at Boston, 7:30 p.m. 
Indiana at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Miami, 7:30 p.m. 
Milwaukee at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
NBA BOX 
WASHINGTON (97) 

King 15-30 8-11 38, Grant 8-17 5-5 21. Jones 0-1 1-2 1, Robinson 5-14 0-0 10, Walker 3-10 2-4 8, English 1-6 2-2 4, Alarie 4-5 3-3 11. Ellison 1· 7 0-0 2. Workman 1-3 0-0 2, Foster 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 38-94 21-27 97. NEW JERSEY (92) 
Morris 5-14 3-4 15, Coleman 5-16 6-6 16, Bowie 3-8 3-4 9, Blaylock 7-19 5-6 19, Theus 3-10 0-0 6, Buechler 2-6 0-0 4, Lee 1-3 0-0 2, Dudley 2-5 1-3 5, Haley 0·0 0-0 0, Garvin 3-12 4-4 10, Conner 2-3 2-2 6.Totals 33-96 24-29 92. Washington 24 29 28 16-97 New Jersey 29 24 19 2(}-92 
3-Point goals-Washington 0-0, New Jersey 2-9 (Morris 2-3, Bowie 0-1, Theus 0-1, Buechler 0-1, Blaylock 0-3). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Washington 68 (Walker 14), New Jersey 62 (Coleman 12). Assists-Washington 18 (King 6). New Jersey 18 (Blaylock 5). Total fouls­Washington 25, New Jersey 20. A--<3,1 03. 

Sophomores 
Get involved in the excitement of 


~JPW~ 
Apply for the 
Sophomore Committee! 
page 13 

1990-91 preseason poll results 
'90-91 '89-90 School Points 1 2 UNL V (50) 1,601 2 7 Arkansas [5) 1 ,506 3 14 Arizona (5) 1,488 4 4 Michigan St. (1) 1,302 5 North Carolina 1,282 6 15 Duke (2) 1,162 7 23 Alabama 1,110 8 Indiana 1 ,089 9 8 Georgetown {2) 1,054 10 Ohio State 887 11 UCLA 874 12 Pittsburgh 812 13 6 Syracuae 791 14 19 LSU 726 15 1 Oklahoma 670 16 9 Georgia Tech 640 17 3 Connec1icut 630 18 Virginia 540 19 Temple 300 20 Missouri 282 21 11 Georgia 280 22 Texas 254 23 16 Louisville 252 24 Southern Miss. 238 25 St. John's 213 
Others receiving votes (in descending order): 
Kansas, New Mexico, North Carolina State, Houston, East Tennessee State, Memphis State, DePaul 45, James Madison, Kentucky 42, Purdue, Minnesota. Oklahoma State, New Mexico, Brigham Young, Notre Dame 25, Xavier (Ohio), Illinois, Cincinnati, Stanford, Clemson, Rutgers 18, Michigan, Wyoming, South Alabama. California, S.W. Louisiana, Marquette 10, Murray Stale, Seton Hall, UC Santa Barbara, Utah, Creighton 7, New Orleans, Princeton, Tennessee. Ala.-Birmingham, Wake Forest. Long Beach State, South Florida, La Salle 4, Massachusetts, Colorado State, Iowa State, Florida State, Villanova, Mississippi State, St. Louis, Texas-EI Paso. AP 
Bold Face = NO Opponents 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
WASHINGTON BULLET&-Signed Ledell Eackles. guard, to a two-year contract and placed him on the suspended list. FOOTBALL National Football League 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOT$-Released David Douglas, offensive lineman, from Injured reserve. BASEBALL American League 
DETROIT TIGERs-Purchased the contracts of Rusty Meacham and Dave Haas, pitchers, from London of the Eastern League and Kevon Ritz and Eric Stone, pitchers. from Toledo of the International League. 

Delivery areas limrted to ensure sate driving. ©1989 Domino's Pim. Inc. 
OPEN FOR
IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ 


LUNCH
Call Us! 
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 



271-0300 289-0033 

1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 

•• --------
--------
-------...
I I

ou've heard of Twin Peaks,SUNDAY DOUBLE Domino's Pizza is offering I
•• FEATURE SPECIAL I I I OFFPEAKS I I I I Ifyou order before 4pm I Get llarge original I
Get 2 small original pizzas
I I and/or after 8pm, you can I pizza with your favorite I
with the topping of your

I I get 1 medium original pizza I topping for only $4.99. I
choice for only $5.99.

I Valid Sundays only. I with 2 toppings and 2 Cokes~ Valia Mondays & I I I for only $7.99 I Tuesdays orily. I 

I I I
• • ~1. i em® 1 II® i 
I Valid at partic1patmo stcns only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices I Valid at partiapatmo stores only. Not valid With any other oNer Pnces I Vahdat participatmo stores only. Not vahd wiltl any other offer. Prices I
• may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable Delivery areas 1 may vary Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 1
I limited to ensure safe dnvmo Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 I limoted to ensure safe drivlno. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 hm1ted to ensure safe driv1no. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penali;red for late delivenes 
Our drivers are not penalized for late delivenes Our dnvers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
Tuesday, November 13, 1990 The Observer page 15 

Pitt football suffering season of hard times 
I'ITTSBUHGH lAP) .Johnny Majors nnver saw timns these tough. Neither did Jaekie Sherrill. Even Foge Fazio and Mike Gottfried didn't have it this rough. 
For the first time in nearly 20 years, Pitt football is Pitt-i­ful. 
The 1976 national champion, a Top Ten fixture for years, Pitt was ranked as high as No. 13 this season aftnr starting 2-0. But the Panthers (3-6-1) havn won onr.n in their last eight games and are assured of their ser.ond losing season in 18 years. 
Where have you gonn, Tony Dorsntt'? Dan Marino? Hugh Grenn? Bill Fralic? 
Unless they upsnt Penn Statn on Nov. 24. the Panthers will matr.h their 19R4 rer.ord of 3-7-1. Pitt's worst since the Carl Dnl'asqua-coachnd 1972 team finished l-10. llowever, the 1<JR4 sr.hedule started with Brigham Young and Oklahoma and included no rent-a-win opponents. 
Quarterback Alex Van Pelt talked of playing in a "major, major bowl," but the Panthers won't be going to even a minor, minor bowl. 
How bad has Pitt been in r.oach Paul Hackett's first sea­son? This bad: 
-The Panthers' only victo­ries are over Ohio University, Boston College and Rutgers. They've been blown out against ranked opponents, losing by a combined 128-32 to Miami, Oklahoma and Notre Dame. 
-The attendance for Saturday's 28-18 loss to Temple was 16,375 and would have been lower if the Golden Panthers boosters dub hadn't given away 5,000 tickets. Pitt's average attendance for its seven horne games was 3R,264, its lowest since 1973. 
HATTIESBUHG, Miss. (AP) ­Southern Mississippi has shed its no-respect image. 
For the first time, its basket­ball and football teams are in the Top 25, and postseason bowl games are courting the Golden Eagles. 
"We're opening some eyes with our accomplishments," said basketball coach M.K. Turk, starting his 15th season at the school. "It speaks well for our total athletic program to have two teams ranked." 
In football, Southern over­came a demanding eight-game road schedule and completed an 8-3 regular season by beat­ing then No. 15 Auburn 13-12 Saturday. The Eagles were 5-3 on the road, with the losses by a combined eight points to Mississippi State, Georgia and Virginia Tech. 
Southern Mississippi made its first 1990 poll appearance at No. 25 Monday and is almost certain to get its second invita­tion to a bowl game under third-year coach Curley Hallman. Both the Independence Bowl and the All-


Southern Miss on way to glory 
American Bowl have expressed interest in the Golden Eagles. 
The basketball team, which last season got the school's first NCAA tournament invitation, was No. 24 in the preseason poll Monday. And the Golden Eagles are favored -ahead of perennial pick Louisville -to win the Metro Conference title. Last season, the Golden Eagles were 20-12 and finished second in the Metro for the first time. 
And in the spring, Southern's baseball team was 42-25, and for the first time got a spot in the NCAA regionals. The last two seasons, Southern has earned berths in the NCAA women's basketball tourna­ment. 
Southern Mississippi's pro­gram has made big strides since Bill McLellan became ath­letic director five years ago. He promised growth and change and has delivered. 
"We have only got a $4.9 mil­lion budget, so money is not ev­erything," McLellan said. "We have got 15 sports and the Division 1-A commitment was made before I got here. We do the best we can on what we have and have developed a well-rounded program." 
But success on the field hasn't led to a surge in fan support. 
Even though Southern Mississippi's football team has had only two losing seasons since 1980, there have been only two sellouts at 33,000-seat 
M.M. Roberts Stadium in the past decade and both against instate opponents -.Jackson State in 1987 and Mississippi State in 1989 -that are no longer on the schedule. 
The game against Division 1­AA Jackson State was a one­game contract, while a 1 0-year series with Mississippi State ended this season before a crowd of 40,000-plus at Starkville. 
The average attendance for the three home games this sea­·-. son was 20,885. 
"Our perception on a national basis is not going to start up unless we start at horne," McLellan said. "We appreciate the fan support we have. We just wish we had more." 

Georgia Tech for 1990 National Championship? 
ATLANTA lAP) -As coach of the nation's only undefeated r.ollege football team, Bobby Hoss knows what it will take for Georgia Ter.h to win the national championship. 
"Being the only unbeaten team, we have a legitimate shot," Hoss said Monday, after the Yellow .Jar.kets climbed to No. 4 in The Associated Press poll -Tech's highest ranking since being No. 3 two games into the 1961 season. 
"As long as we continue to win, we have a big opportunity in the rankings. It's where you end up that's important." 
The Yellow Jackets stayed unbeaten Saturday on Scott Sisson's two field goals in the final 5:09, including a 38­yarder with eight seconds left, for a 6-3 victory over Virginia Tech. 
Sisson sent the Jackets surg­ing into the Top Ten at No. 7 the previous week when he kicked a 37-yard field goal with seven seconds left in a 41-38 triumph over then top-ranked Virginia. 
When Texas beat previously undefeated Houston Saturday night, it left the Jackets as the nation's only team without a loss. The only blemish on Tech's 8-0-1 record is a 13-13 tie with North Carolina, one that came on a Sisson 27 -yard field goal with just over a minute remaining. 
Tech has to keep winning to lay claim to the national crown. The Jackets also need the top three teams in the poll to stum­ble -No. 1 Notre Dame, No. 2 Colorado and No. 3 Miami. 

Although bowl acceptances don't become official until Nov. 24, it's certain that Notre Dame will meet Colorado in the Orange Bowl for the second year in a row and Miami will meet the Southwest Conference champion in the Cotton Bowl. 
Tech is headed for the Citrus Bowl against Nebraska. Ross isn't concerned how the hype will effect his team. 
"I know that our kids read the papers and listen to the radio and watch television," he said. "It's not something I try to ignore. I simply remind our kids that if we want to continue to stay where we are or improve our position, it's important that we focus on our upcoming opponent and beat them." 
Tech's last two regular season games are on the road ­against Wake Forest Saturday and at Georgia on Dec. 1. 
Student Government Presents... APullK Forum On Contemporary Issues 
With 


Coleman McCarthy 
O>hunnillt of the Washington Post 
''ROTC at a Cotlwlic University?" 
NO! 

Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
7:00pm 

EngineeringAuditorium 
•
STUDENT 
5011111111 

This .r.eri£5 zm5 mnde possilie through the gmoruity ofseveral rnemlm ofthe Arts & /.111m Cnuruil and the BusinRSS OilPgr Council 


~~g~e_1_6_________________________________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_~_e_r__________________________________T_ue_s_d_a_y_,_N_o_ve_m__b_e_r_13_,_1_9_9_0 
Class ~~~z~~i~~esy~~eird.lcan'tbelieveljust High school star opts for Indiana 
continued from page 12 
To FARLEY"S FINEST and the best looking coachesintheleague Congrats on an excellent season II Thank you so much for all your time and effort-you guys are the best. Remember-STAY LOOSEII 
L.: Why no brunch? -R. 
Top 20 quotes from "The best roadtrip evert" 
20. Show me! Show me! 
19. 7 and a half inches. 
18. Lily...Lily of the valley! 
17. Coagulation social! 
16. Because it's great, to be, from under the Dome! 
15. Taco Hell! 14.P_S!!! 13. 5-1-2! 5-1-2! 
12. I like Salsa, and Cool Ranch, and Plain too! I like all kinds. 
11. Because it's great, to be, from under the dome I (hand gestures are a must here!) 
10. Swipe the leg! 
9. Your tarts are so interesting! 
8. Yeah, that's it, everyone from NO is a queer drug addict. 
7. Because it's great, to be, from under the Dome! 
6. She gets the efficiency award-she didn't have to pack because she wore it all. 
5. Because it's great, to be, on top of the Dome! 
4. Save the bucks! 
3. They are RU·UDE\\1. 
2. I like your sweatshirt! And the #1 quote of the weekend( in unison, with hand gestures) ... Because it's great, to be, from under the Dome I!! 
ALICE RULES! 
You smell good\ 
dear zest, I'm sorry I never got to meet you ... maybe next formal! 
dear dubey, love those shorts! 
0 GREAT AND HUNGRY Ell'. 
wow. 
TENNESSEE TOP 15 QUOTES: 
15. Excuse me, could you tell me where l­29is? 
14. Will I ever speak coherent English again? 
~ 
-
The New 1991 MCAT 
Test Dates: April 27, 1991 September 14, 1991 
Test Duration: 5 hours 45 Minutes 
No one can guarantee yoUI acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee IS your insurance policy. If you're not completely sausf1ed wnh your MCAT score, we'lllet you repeat the ennre course ..at 
no charge! . . We offer expert live instruction, mnovanve home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST -N-TAPE® labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produce~ more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combil)ed\ 

! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
SIGN UP IN SOUTH BEND TO A VOID A WAITING LIST FOR CLASS SEATS­
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
SIGN UP BY 12/1/90

RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AND SAVE $45.00! 

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
11. I can't do a d ... thing until she's out of the d ... bathroom! 
10. I'm so excited-'so don't be getting so excited!' 
9. Janet, the secretary from Air Force Rotc. 
8. We have class-you have lettuce in your hair. 
7. I'll follow them back to South Bend and burn down their temple-We're catholic not Jewish! 
6. I don't know if you heard me, but I live in the room he lived in last year. 
5. Y'all, how about chinese for dinner? 
4. Hey if you guys want, I'll drive now. 
3. Pass the Peanut Butter please. 
2. Good ol' Rocky Top, Rocky Top Tennessee! 
1. Hey, this motel's great! They clean the room every time you leave. Yeah you wake up in the morning and you're in a made bed I 
ATIENTION JUNIORS I! 
Do you want to be in the Junior Parents Weekend Slide Show? Please submit pictures to the Student Activities Office-3rd Floor LaFortune. 
Nov 12-Nov 16th (no pies accepted after Nov. 16) 
Questions-Call Katie x1297 NOTE-no alcohol allowed in pies. Thanks!!! 
Call or write to: Jon "Lion Loser" Pensa 320 E. Beaver Ave., Apt. 304 State College, Pa. 16801 (814)-867 · 8477 any1ime Tell him: 
1) There is mystique@ N.D. 
2) Joe Paterno is a nerd 
3) That the "Irish" will crush the "lions" 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
Tickets are on sale now for the class trip to CHICAGO. ONLY $10 
The trip will be Thurs., Nov. 29. Buses leave NO at 4:30 and will leave Chicago at 10:30. 
Sean P. Dennehy Please call x1 071 and wish him a Happy 21st Birthday and ask him how many shots he did last night!!l 
St. Jude pray for those who invoke your aid. 
LULAC MEETING: TONIGHT AT 118 NIEUWLAND HALL! 
LULAC MEETING: TONIGHT AT 118 NIEUWLAND HALL! 
LULAC MEETING: TONIGHT AT 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Alan Henderson of Indianapolis Brebeuf, considered one of the nation's top high school seniors, was one of two major prospects to announce Monday they plan to play college basketball at Indiana University. 
The 6-foot-9 Henderson an­nounced his choice of the Hoosier program over Duke and Stanford, the other two fi­nalists he had named earlier. 
"All three have good pro­grams. What it came down to was where I felt I could fit in best," Henderson told a news conference at his high school. 
Henderson said he decided last Wednesday and notified all three schools about an hour before his news conference. 
Indiana's next freshman class is also expected to include 7­foot Todd Lindeman, who aver­aged 22 points at North Dickinson High School in upper Michigan. Lindeman announced his intent to join the Hoosiers while attending Sunday's game between the Soviet National 
118 NIEWULAND HALL! 
NO 'BONES: When I say SPACE You say NEEDLE SPACE NEEDLE, SPACE NEEDLE! -Jer-Schtein 
Hi Hotrod! 
sdgf 
KNOW YOUR WINE§ I 
Z'I''!'Onul 
~ ...... .,
'How to Judge Any Bottle 
E:JIZI':.Qill':ll 
of Wine In 15 Minutes'. 16 page manual, 1 0 ye~ re­aearch, Invest in l£Oul'881t, send $3 to: Flexor lndustri~ Penyton Parkway Pampa TX ~ 
"' 


Seniors ofAll Majors Are Invited to a Presentation on 
Opportunities in Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 15, 1990 University Club 6:00P.M. 
Representatives ofMorgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Analyst Program 


Refreshments Provided 
Contact the University ofNotre Dame Career and Placement Services Center for additional information 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
team and Indiana at Bloomington. 
The early basketball signing period for high school seniors begins Wednesday and NCAA regulations prohibit coaches from discussing recruits pub­licly until after they sign a na­tional letter-of-intent. 
"The recruiting got a little hectic. There were times I was scared to pick up the phone," Henderson said. "So as soon as I knew, I didn't want to waste anybody else's time. I know how time-consuming the re­cruiting is now. I can only imagine how your mind would be wondering through the sea­son if you wait." 
Henderson, a first team all­state selection by The Associated Press last year when he averaged 29.7 points and 
14.2 rebounds, has scored 1,624 points and averaged 24.6 points in three seasons. He has a career shooting mark of nearly 55 percent from the field and has a 3.6 grade point aver­age out of a possible 4 at the private prep school. 
TIIE AMERICAN HEART ASSCHATION MEMORIAL PR<LRAM~
-
American Heart Association 
space provided as a public service. 

Incorporated 
Interested in a summer service project ? 
Learning about a third world country and serving others ? Come to the CSC Mexico project Informational meeting, Tuesday Nov. 13 at 7:00 p.m. in the esc. 
A special guest speaker from MaryKnoll Missionaries will be presenting the details of the project and to answer questions. 
~---~--­
Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
blurred vision, winning in Bayliss. "He put it on the line,

Eagles dominate hapless 
straight tie-breaker sets. and some of the others didn't. 

Rolex 

"They've been playing in a lot Dave was in the top 10 na­of tournaments lately," said tionally, but there's no question
continued from page 20 


Redskins in Philadelphia 
DiLucia of their Ball State he'll move up after this 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Heggie White and friends proved coach Buddy Hyan's point Monday night -that de­fense can score points as well as offense. 
With a little help from Handall Cunningham and Heath Sherman, the defense set up or scored three touchdowns in a span of 3:51 late in the third quarter to lead Philadelphia to a 28-14 win over Washington. 
Tho Eagles (5-4) got back into the middle of the NFC playoff race. Washington (5-4) lost both of its quarterbacks, Jeff Hutlodge and Stan Humphries, to injury. Brian Mitchell, a wishbone quarterback in college and now listed as a running back, took over and led Washington 56 yards to a late TD, which he scored on a 1­yard dive. 
The Eagles avenged a 13-7 loss at Washington three weeks ago and joined the Redskins four games behind the un­beaten New York Giants in the NFC East. If the season ended now, Washington and Philadelphia would be wild­card playofl' entries. 
Two of Philadelphia's touch­downs came directly from the defense, a 30-yard interception return for a score by William Frizzell in the first quarter and an 18-yard run with a fumble by Clyde Simmons in the middle of the third-quarter spurt. 
White's 33-yard return with the first interception of his il­lustrious career set up Cunningham's 2-yard pass to Sherman. The fourth TD came after the defense stuffed the Hedskins inside the 10, leading to Keith Byars' 9-yard pass on an option to Sherman, whose 124 yards in 35 carries made him the first Philadelphia back in nine years to rush for 100 yards in two straight games. 
With 30 mph wind gusts hin­dering the offense, the teams went off at halftime tied 7-7 on Frizzell's return and an 8-yard TD pass from Jeff Rutledge to Don Warren. 
But Rutledge, who rescued the Redskins indoors in Detroit last week by throwing for 363 yards in a 41-38 overtime win, couldn't cope with the Eagles or the weather. He completed just six of 19 for 63 yards before leaving in the third quarter with an injured right thumb. 
The Eagles' spurt started when White sacked Rutledge for a 6-yard loss to his own 4. Anthony Edwards returned the ensuing punt 11 yards to the Washington 33 and seven plays later, Byars hit Sherman in the end zone. The drive was pro­longed by a 6-yard, fourth­down pass from Cunningham to Sherman that put the ball at the 
21. 
On Washington's third play, Hopkins plowed into Rutledge and knocked the ball loose. Simmons picked it up on the 18 and carried it in to make it 21-7 just 1:10 after the first score. 
On the next series, Humphries was at quarterback for Washington. 
After a 14-yard pass to Gary Clark and two imcomplete passes, Byron Evans burst through and tipped the ball to White, who rambled to the 9. Two plays later, Cunningham hit Sherman all alone in the left corner of the end zone. 

DiLucia. "I was playing a opponents. "Coach Richards tournament. He's a franchise baseline player, which meant a does a great job with their player." lot of long points." tactics. They were flooding the With DiLucia the team will 
Monday in the doubles final, middle, so Coach Bayliss move also, as Bayliss feels the DiLucia overcame an eye injury countered and let us know that Irish clinched a spot repre­at the beginning of the second we needed to use the lob senting the Midwest at the set before he and Coleman beat more." National Indoors -a first for the the Ball State team for the With such a powerful asset. Irish. second time this season to go Irish head coach Bob Bayliss "Hopefully this tournament undefeated for the fall. After a gets the most out of his talent. will be a springboard for next ten minute break to ice the cut "Dave was the only highly season. We showed what we're under his eye, DiLucia returned seeded player to play in both capable of," commented and finished the match with singles and doubles," said Zurcher. 

Clyde Simmons, shown here with ex-Notre Dame standout Bob Golic in a preseason game at Detroit, scored a defensive touchdown as the Eagles defense swamped the Washington Redskins on Monday Night. 
You are invited to an Autograph Party 





GOD COUNTRY: NOTRE DAME 

Fr. Hesburgh ~ill be at the Notre Dame Bookstore Tuesday· Nov. I3th from z:oo to 3:30 Second Floor Book Department 
-

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1990 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
much from us. And we have worked so hard-I don't mean to say we didn't work hard last year-but we have worked even harder this year as a team." Even with hard work, Williams will be very difficult to replace. The Irish know they will each have to be a little bit better to offset his absence in the lineup. "I think when we finally saw that Monty had a problem, I really thought the upperclassmen really got together mentally," Phelps says. "There is really another type of closeness amongst these guys. I think that chemistry is very important, and that's great for our freshmen to see this approach. I think they're loose, I think they're serious, I think they're together. "Where you knew Monty Williams was going to be able to handle the ball in certain situations, now Kevin Ellery is going to have to do it. When you look at Monty getting offensive rebounds, that's the one thing I've told Daimon (Sweet), he's got to get offensive rebounds, or Daimon, the way Monty used to get the ball and be creative, now you've got to do that. Each player has got to step into it, because obviously we've got six players rather than seven with experience." Much of the burden falls on Ellery's square shoulders. As the sixth man, he has to make a huge contribution to the first team. He also has to run the second team, which is comprised of four freshmen, and whip those younger players into shape. "With Monty not being able to play, Daimon and I have to score more," Ellery says. "With the freshmen, what I try to get across to them is that they are going to make some mistakes. But they have to continue to play hard, and maybe as the season gets going they will play more like sophomores than like freshmen." "Ellery and (Tim) Singleton have been very serious as seniors leading this team," Phelps says. "And I think that's been important, especially when Ellery barks at you. There are not too many guys who are going to mess with him. And he's serious. He wants to win, he wants to win big, and he wants to have this team do something." So can this Irish team overcome adversity and become the cream that rises to the top of the college basketball crop? Since they are not expected to do much this season, the Irish could sneak up on some people and make this a very interesting season. With LaPhonso Ellis and Elmer Bennett returning Notre Dame has a potent inside-outside scoring combination. Singleton is a reliable point guard, Sweet is a tremendous athlete with the ability to make spectacular plays, Keith Tower will take up some space inside, and Ellery can play guard or forward coming off the bench. Depth might be a problem for the Irish, but the bottom line is that this is a determined bunch. And anybody that 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Men's interhall football coaches -turn in all-league ballots by tonight in the Observer office. 
The ND/SMC Ski team will hold a meeting on Wednesday, Nov. 14 at 8 p.m. in Rm, 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Anyone interested in trying out for the team must attend along with those who still have business to take care of for the Christmas trip to Steamboat. 
Anyone not currently a member of the Notre Dame crew team and interested in rowing varsity next semester, come to the meeting in 204 O'Shag on Wednesday, Nov. 14 at 7:30p.m. 
Mandatory crew meeting for both novice and varsity thin Wednesday, Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m. in 204 O'Shag. Money will be collected and the Penn State concession stand will be organized. 
WVFI-AM 640 will air Sports Talk at 8 p.m. tonight with hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan. Notre Dame basketball players Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet will be guests in the first half of the show followed by Irish tailback Ricky Watters in the second half. 
underestimates them might be those who overestimated last making just as big a mistake as year's squad. 
Research works. American Heart 
Association 


Want to feel this great about your first job? 



Exciting opportunities 
exist at IBM! 

IBM is recruiting 1990/91 graduates for openings in Programming, Engineering, and Technical Sales (BS/MS). 

Meet with IBM Managers at our Career Information Day Wednesday, November 14 LaFortune-Notre Dame Room Noon-5pm 
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies ofyour data sheet/resume and transcript, if available. Dress is casual. 
--...-­
-.--­
_ _..._ '-® 
An equal opportunity employer 


-

----------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Tuesday ACROSS 30Sawbuck &2Type of 33 A favorite game tournament
1 Breathless 

3:30-4:30 p.m. Presentation: "Writing Effective of George Bush &5 Early inhabitant 
& Word of reg ret 

Resumes;" Paula Cook, Career Counselor. Hesburgh 38 Violinist Bull of Britain 
10 Babe Ruth's 
39 Accumulate 66 Henri adjunct 

Library Lounge. 
sultanate 
&71n harmony14 Cabinetmaker's 
40 Pay dirt 
66 Interviews

4 p.m. Lecture: "Perestroika in the Eyes of an 41 Less ruddy 
tool &9 Actresses

Ordinary Muscovite;" Sergei Romaniuk. Room 303, 15 Rooster on a 43 Black Hawk was Sandra and 
one

Cushing llall of Engineering. spire Ruby
44 Indoor place for 
1& Shangri-La 70Comedian
· fun and games 

4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Avoidance of Governmental figure Amsterdam
46 Uses a mangle 

Violence;" Colman McCarthry, syndicated columnist. n Outdoor place 
49 "Ladders to 

Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Pi for fun and 
Fire" author 
games DOWN

Sigma Alpha. 
50 Alger's "-­
19 Surmounting 
Tom" 1--Maritimes,
20 Wright wing 

5 p.m. Presentation/Reception. Career opportunities 53 Imprecatory Nice's m-+--+---1 21 Declared
with Aetna Life and Casualty for Business and Arts and remark department Letters seniors. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 57 Singer Lopez 
22Miller's"-2 Neptune's first the Fall" observer
sa Of lyric poetry 24 Peddle 3lnanyway

7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Making the Transition from School eo Sigma 
2& Athlete on a mat predecessor 4 Owing the pot

to Work:" Wayne Szmyt, General Electric Corporate Staff, 
28 Punching tool &1 Biggers hero 5 Cribbage items 

Professional Relations. Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
& Parisian's 

Student Center. 
property 7Summacum
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7:30 p.m. Lecture: Fifth of a Five Part Series ­"Homosexuality: A Psychologist's Perspective;" Louise 
8 With 54 Down, Douce, PhD., Director of Counseling Center, Ohio State Wolverines' 
home 44 Called it quits 5& Proverbial fly 
University. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
9 Tranquilizes 45 Ruined catcher -=+=.,._:~""""',&,;;,~ 10 Criticizes 47 New Orleans 11 57 Demonstrative severely 33 Trunk fastener 
46 RR depot 59 Miler Steve ­
MENUS 
11 Pool game 34 Poet famed for 51 Pass pattern, in &1 Busy one 12 "Omnia vincit quatrains football before Apr. 15 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's " 35 Churchill 52 Best and Ferber &3 Suffix with Capri 13 Start of a court Downs, e.g. 
54See8 Down 64 Ear: Comb. 
Chicken Romano "Thanksgiving Buffet" game 3& Perennial Reno 
55 Yours, of yore form
Chili Cheese Macaroni Turkey and Dressing 18 Singer Lou-winner 23 Algerian rebel 37 Christie's "N 
Broiled Chicken Baked Ham Shrimp and Vegetable Stir Fry Answers to any three clues in this 
gp. in the 50's -?" ~;.+.:,:+=-~ 25 Colleen 41 "--Love puzzle are available by touch-tone -::;+;~;.F-.1,;,1 27 Precipitous You," Mercer air phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each ~:..L:....L::..-29 Pitcher Gardner 42 Florence's river minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
~Oio\, CO WE \.\t.RE's ONE. I'M SWPO'St.D \if!.'-4~ t>. SlioE 'f.l\\t>-I 1>.9-'t. ~()IJ 1'0 \-1\P..-.:£ p.. BOX I CO\JLD GOI~G TO DC DIORA.MA. WFII£ 1-l~IJ£" \IS WITt\\\? S\"U\)'(I~G 11\E. FOR f>. SCHOOL PIFiti'!ENT £(()· PROji::CI. ~~~-~ S'i'm.t<\S M-lO 
I'M GOit-l<:t TD 
M~~ to. D't.S£.RT 
SC.El\E. 


.­
Fleaboys 


THE FAR SIDE 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON GARY LARSON 
31 Grocery item 32 Six years in the Senate 



\\,\~~\\~\\\\\\\\\,\\~\''~'''''''''~-~1111 llll,IIJiffff'f~~~,-~,,Jd~IJ IIJ~~JIJII.II I II II I II I I II I I It I I I II I I 11 l>lo 11111111tll,fffJJ(( 
.. 

r-------------------------------------­





Sports 

page 20 Tuesday, November 13, 1990 
Irish basketball may surprise the 'experts' 
Great things were expected of last year's Notre Dame men's basketball team. The Irish were returning 10 players from a team that had been 21-9 the previous season. But even though there were several excellent players coming back, they never developed a good team chemistry and Coach Digger Phelps's squad slumped to a 16-13 record and lost to Virginia in the first round of 
the NCAA Tournament. 
This year is much different. Notre Dame had seven players returning from last year's team, and that would have provided the Irish with a solid nucleus. But then a heart ailment forced sophomore Monty Williams to end his career, and Phelps's troops have had to overcome the emotional loss of a close friend as well as the absence of a versatile player on the basketball court. 
Surprisingly, though, with all of these obstacles to overcome, this team is poised and confident as Thursday's season opener against Fordham approaches. Despite the fact that there are only six players with college experience on the roster to compete against a schedule which features such heavyweights as Indiana, UCLA, North Carolina, Duke and Louisville, the Notre Dame players seem very upbeat. 
"Last year was kind of a season when we had to win because we had everybody back," senior Kevin Ellery says. "We had guys like Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson and we were hoping it would be our year. This year is different because we don't have to worry about pressure, because people don't expect 
see HOOPS I page 18 

By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team wrapped up its fall season this weekend, taking with them the singles and doubles titles of the Rolex Midwest Region Championships. Irish junior All-American David DiLucia, the only highly seeded player to play in both singles and doubles action, ousted Northwestern's Steve Herdoiza, 6-3, 6-1 in singles action before pairing with teammate Chuck Coleman to defeat Ball State's duo of Dan Kronauge and Scott Campbell, 7-6 (9-7), 7-6 (7-5) to take the doubles title. 
The wins qualify DiLucia and Coleman for the National Indoor Championships to be held in February at Lexington, Kentucky. 
Irish sophomore Andy Zurcher, playing after a five-week layoff due to a bout with mononucleosis, put together a great tournament as well, ad­vancing to the semi-finals be­fore falling to Northwestern's Herdoiza, 6-2. 7-6 (10-8). Classmate Ron Rosas played some of his best tennis ever in a 6-3, 6-0 upset of Michigan's 

Irish tennis stars win Rolex 
Dilucia wins singles, teams with Coleman for doubles 
Volleyball drops to Colorado 
Irish are outgunned, outdefensed as Buffaloes roam 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame women's volley­ball suffered a tough loss Friday night, falling to Colorado in straight sets. 
The Lady Buffs played nearly flawless volleyball on both of­fense and defense, to earn the victory over the Irish. 
Colorado's Tina Murray made a spectacular showing with a .536 attack percentage, includ­ing a team-leading 16 kills. Murray added 9 digs to lead the Buffs on defense as well. 
Colorado (14-11) led throughout the contest, but was challenged early by a de­
--termined Irish squad. Notre Dame fought back from an early first-game deficit to even the score at 13-13. However, Colorado scored the final two points of the game, and carried the momentum into the second stanza. In game two, the Buffaloes came out strong, scoring the first eight points. From there, the Irish could not come back, and had to settle for a 15-3 setback. Colorado posted an incredible . 783 attack percentage in the 
second game, keeping Notre Dame's lackluster game under control. 
In game three, the Irish staged a comeback. After going down 12-5, Notre Dame fought to outscore the Lady Buffs, 7-2, to bring the match to its brink. With Colorado leading the third game 14-12, the service bounced back and forth, with each team forcing sideout after sideout. However, the Lady Buffs prevailed, winning the fi­nal point. 
With the loss, Notre Dame's record dropped to 8-22. The Irish have lost nine of their last ten matches. 
Notre Dame will close out its home schedule tonight when the Irish face Northwestern at 7:30p.m. at the JACC. 
The Wildcats bring a 14-15 record to South Bend, and an impressive 6-8 mark in the tough Big Ten, despite having lost their last four conference matches. 
Players to watch for Northwestern include Stacy Kammes, who leads the team with 324 kills, and ranks sec­ond on the squad with 326 digs. 
The Irish continue to play without four contributors. In 
fact, only seven took the court to face the Lady Buffs. The Notre Dame lineup has been decimated by an unfortunate string of stress fractures. 
Jen Slosar, Julie Harris, Cynthia May, and leading at­tacker and blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn have all gone down with stress fractures this sea­son, and all four remain side­lined. 
Though Northwestern is the only challenge left for the Irish at home, the squad has a long list of foes remaining across the country. 
The MCC tournament, in which the Irish are seeded fifth of eight, will be held at Xavier University in Cincinnati this weekend. Notre Dame plays Loyola in the first round. The Irish suffered a difficult four­game loss to Loyola earlier this season. 
After the tournament, Notre Dame will travel to Austin for the Whataburger Classic. The Irish will face national powers Texas, San Diego State, and Penn State at the University of Texas over Thanksgiving week­end. 

Dan Brackus in the Round of 16 before falling to eventual semi­finalist Jack Waite, 6-1, 6-2. 
"I couldn't have asked for a better performance from our players," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "We had three guys in the final eight and two in the final four. It's great to see that in such a demanding tournament." 
In the quarterfinals, Zurcher, who played at number five for the Irish last year, faced the unenviable task of playing teammate Coleman, who earlier in the season matched up with DiLucia in the finals of the Tom Fallon Invitational. 
"I absolutely hated it," Zurcher said of facing his teammate. "I missed the whole fall season, so he was pushing me a lot in practice to do well in this last tournament." 
Coleman, who rallied back in the Round of 16 to beat Marquette's Jorge Gonzalez, 6­7, 7-6, 6-4, had nothing but praise for Zurcher, who earlier defeated Minnesota's number one player. 
"He really played a great match. He worked harder than everyone else this summer and deserved to win on that given day." 
Other bright spots for the Irish included Rosas's march to the round of 16 and the doubles combination of Ryan Wenger and Paul Anthony taking two matches before falling in the quarterfinals. 
"I was mentally up for the match with Brackus and played well from the baseline," said Rosas. 
It was an all around team effort for the Irish. 
"This is a big step forward from last year," said Coleman of the team's performance. "It solidifies our position in the region and will hopefully give us what we need going into the spring season." 
DiLucia, fresh off a semifinals appearance at last weekends Volvo Tennis Championships, encountered a marathon weekend that forced him to play 11 matches in four days. The fact that he won all six singles matches in straight sets adds only adds to the dominance of his game. 
"I was pretty exhausted in the final singles match," said 
see ROLEX I page 17 


Breen-Phillips to face Howard in lnterhall title game 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Breen-Phillips and Howard football teams ad­vanced to the women's interhall finals with victories on Sunday at Stepan Field. 
Breen-Phillips reached the fi­nals with a 12-0 triumph over Farley, while Howard advanced with a 12-8 comeback win over Pasquerilla West. 
The Blitz dominated their contest from start to finish on both offense and defense to record the shutout. They got on the scoreboard in the first half on Amy Jenista's 35-yard run, but the two-point conversion failed, so they had to settle for a 6-0 lead at halftime. 
Breen-Phillips increased its lead to 12-0 when Kristy Alkidas scored on a 60-yard run in the second half, and the 12-point lead was more than enough to assure that the im­pregnable Blitz defense would hold. 
"As far as defense goes, I don't think we had one out­standing player," said co-cap­tain Katherine Mapother. "It was a team effort. In fact, we didn't even allow a first down the entire game." 
Safety Carrie Goles led the defense in the first half, as she intercepted one pass and re­turned it 30 yards. 
The Howard-Pasquerilla West contest was much less one­sided. Pasquerilla took the lead in the first half. as Jenny Tate took advantage of a Howard defensive mixup with a 60-yard touchdown reception. After the two-point conversion, P.W. went into halftime with an 8-0 advantage. 
At that point, Howard gath­ered as a team and decided that it was time to get down to business. 
"We got together and said, 'This is it. If we want it we have to pull it out now.' Fortunately we did just that," said Howard running back/quarterback Marianne Haggerty. 

With 9:30 left in the game, Howard closed the gap to two points on a two-yard option run to the left side by Becky Miller. The missed conversion attempt meant that P.W. still held an 8-6 lead, however. 
Late in the game, though, Howard's offense came alive once again. Howard got the ball in good field position, and then a 30-yard reception by Theresa Forest put the team in striking distance. A few plays later, Julie Snook took the ball down to the 
P.W. one-yard line on a sweep, and then Chris Hegg took it in on a center sneak for the win with just 2:30 left in the game. 
The Howard players will have a chance to defend their cham­pionship on Sunday. The Pasqtierilla players, meanwhile, will have to wait for next year. 
"We're still very pleased, we're glad we made it to the semifinals," P.W. senior nose­guard Kathryn Pirrota said. "We will only lose three seniors, so we should have a good team coming back next year." 

" 
l­





