
VOL. XXIII NO. 11 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush and Gorbachev: Saddam must end agression 
HELSINKI, Finland (AP) ­President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev emerged Sunday from a seven-hour summit devoted largely to the Persian Gulf crisis and declared they were "untted in the belief that Iraq's aggression must not be tolerated." 
In an extraordinary joint statement, the two superpow­ers called on the entire world community to adhere to United Nations sanctions against Iraq so long as Baghdad's armies occupy Kuwait. 
"Our preference is to resolve the crisis peacefully," said the written statement, issued mo­ments before Bush and Gor­bachev conducted a joint news conference marking the end of their one-day summit. 
"However, we are determined to see this aggression end, and if the current steps fail to end it, we are prepared to consider additional ones consistent with the UN charter." 
The joint statement also said the United States and Soviet Union recognize that the United Nations resolutions dealing with Iraq permit the shipment of food into Iraq and Kuwait for "humanitarian" 
• Gulf Roundup I page 4 
considerations. 
The two countries said any such imports "must be strictly monitored" to make sure they meet humanitarian concerns "with special priority being given to meeting the needs of children." 
It was the first time since World War II that the United States and the Soviet Union had lined up on the same side of a major regional conflict, and further evidence that the Cold War is fading into history. 
In their wrap-up news con­ference, Bush said he and Gorbachev agreed that they will accept no Persian Gulf settlement "short of the complete implementation" of the U.N. sanctions that demand an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. 
Gorbachev said their 
summit talks were "devoted to 
the quest for a political 
solution" to the Gulf crisis ... 
and I believe that they are on 
the right road." 
Bush and Gorbachev dis­
cussed the prospect of U.S. 
economic aid to Moscow, but 
came to no conclusion. Bush 
see SUMMIT I page 4 

Bed 'N Breakfast to serve ND/SMC visitors 

AP Photo

Tough Talk for Iraq 
U. S. President George Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, pictured here following their bilateral talks last December, emerged from a summit Sunday with a joint statement encouraging the world to uphold the United Nations sanctions against Iraq. This marks the first time since World War II that the two countries have taken the same side in a major regional conflict. 
Liberian president wounded and captured during battle in capital
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
News Writer 
For the fourth year running, a registry of private homes will be serving parents and friends of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students on special events weekends. 
With the scarcity of motel and hotel rooms in the South Bend area on busy weekends, such as home football games and graduation, many alumni and others are expected to take advantage of the service. 
Wilma Behnke, coordinator of this Bed 'N Breakfast, said that the service is available at any of over 35 homes in the area. 
"South Bend reaps a great deal from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame families," Behnke observed. With the number of rooms ranging from one to four in the homes participating, they will be able to accommodate much of the overflow when the hotels fill up. 
The person who seeks out a bed and breakfast service loves the home atmosphere and the sociability that it provides, said Behnke. Be­cause the Behnkes and many of the other hosts and hostesses have had children 
see BED I page 4 

ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (AP) -A rebel faction shot Liberian President Samuel Doe in both legs and captured him Sunday during a battle in that nation's capital. the British Broadcasting Corp. reported. 
The U.S. State Department confirmed that Doe had been captured by rebels led by Prince Johnson but would not comment further. 
More than 60 people, including dozens of Doe's bodyguards, were killed in the fighting between Doe loyalists and Johnson's fighters, the BBC said. It said the battle took place outside the 

Cuban-American bishop celebrates vigil mass honoring Cuban exiles 
By JOHN CRONIN 
News Writer 
A prominent Cuban-American bishop celebrated the brother­hood of exiled Cubans by pre­siding over a vigil mass for the feast of Our Lady of Charity last Friday. 
The Most Rev. Enrique San Pedro, auxiliary bishop of Galveston-Houston, said the mass at Sacred Heart Chapel. The service was sponsored by the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) and coincided with the first an­niversary of the group's for­mation. 
One year ago the group came together both as a community of faithful and a national com­munity to celebrate the feast of a symbol of faith and culture to exiled Cubans. Since that day several law students have or­ganized a group of 24 Cuban­American students at Notre Dame. 
"We founded the group be­cause we no longer wanted to be lumped together with all Hispanics. Hispanics are so di­verse that we wanted a group that could share a common heritage," stated Bert Lopez Alberola, president of CAUSA. 
The goal of CAUSA is to ad­vocate the establishment of a democratic system in Cuba fol­lowing what they regard as the inevitable collapse of the Castro regime. 
"The communist regime is defunct and its days are num­bered. The manifestations of discontent among the Cuban people is becoming more and more visible. Castro has been pophlar in the past, but we are beginning to see more open de­fiance of the government," said Lopez. 

As one of two Cull>an bishops in America, Bishop San Pedro's visit to Notre Dame demon­strated his solidarity with the exiled Cuban community in the United States. 
Bishop San Pedro's message to the Cuban-American stu­dents was one of encourage­ment. He shares the belief in the inevitable decay of the pre­sent Cuban political system and challenged the studlents to re­flect on the issues that will fa­cilitate the reconstruction of Cuba. 
CAUSA believes that its task is 
see BISHC>P I page 8 

headquarters of a West African task force in Monrovia, Liberia. 
Doe had left his fortified seaside mansion to pay an un­scheduled visit to the commander of the West African task force, Lt. Gen Arnold Quainoo of Ghana, the BBC's correspondent in Monrovia reported. 
Johnson and some of his fighters followed Doe, and a quarrel erupted, the BBC report said. The two sides then started battling with rifles, machine guns and grenades. 
Johnson's rebels wounded Doe in both legs and carried 
him off to their base camp, the report said. 
Johnson called the BBC and declared himself president of Liberia until an interim gov­ernment could be installed. Rival rebel leader Charles Taylor of the National Patriotic Front previously claimed the presidency. 
The BBC said Johnson pledged to court-martial Doe. 
Earlier, Doe and Johnson agreed to an informal ceasefire between their forces when the West African task force sailed into Monrovia two weeks ago. Taylor's forces opposed the West African intervention. 


AP PhOto

Children in arms 
A Tamil elder stares at a young Tamil Tiger rebel who was standing at attention during a funeral for a c~lleague in Jaffna, Sri Lanka. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Parking at ND: A fun way to spend your day 
So, South Quad car owners, how do you • like making the 15 to Chns Anderson 20 minute walk to your new parking lo-Controller cation in the D2 stu­dent lot? 
Now for North Quad students: do you enjoy fighting for good parking spots with the whole campus (except for the privileged few who get to use the D6 lot)? 
Obviously, the changes in the parking sit­uation over the summer bre!J.k have caused considerable problems and frustrations for those of us who have brought cars to school. The idea of a quick off-campus ex­cursion is entirely out of the question now since you waste nearly a half hour just walking to and from the parking lot. 
This is a serious problem which needs to be addressed, but to whom can we turn for help? 
I envision the following things happening as a result of student complaints and dis­content: 
•HPC 
and the Student Senate will form several ad hoc committees to study the problem, and their ultimate solution will be to have all the dorms hang out banners which read "Parking in D2: Is it fair?" 

•After 
receiving several complaints on the FRED line, Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar will be forced to start a student shuttle to D2. Since R-0-B was too short to use as a tele­phone number, they will insist that the new shuttle be dedicated to and named after Rob Pasin. 

•Reacting 
to student and parental pres­sures, the Administration will draft an offi­cial statement that proclaims that any stu­dent who donates $33 million to the Univer­sity for the construction of more buildings 


(like DeBartolo did) can get an on-campus parking spot. 
•As its contribution, ND Security will promise to provide student transportation to D2 anytime a squad car is going there. Unfortunately, only a handful of people will be able to take advantage of this invaluable service since Security cars rarely go into the 
-lot. 
•Finally, student-faculty relations will reach an all-time low after student car owners attempt a hostile takeover of faculty parking lots. 
For those members of the University community that are offended by this article, get a sense of humor and realize that this is only a feeble attempt to bring some humor to a really bad situation. 
And car owners, my advice to you is to just enjoy the walk to your off-campus parking place. After all, it takes away time that could be spent on other "worthwhile" ND activities.... like standing in a never­ending line. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
--Ih-. e--O.bse..--~~r--,A.-=Y:.'-' ­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Today's Stall: 
Peter Loftus Business
Production 
Kevaleen Ryan Christine Anderson Chrissy Ciletti Melissa Gorham Christine Walsh 
Ac.:cent 

Lisa Eaton Cristina Ortiz Ad Design Shanda Wilson Lisa Gunsorek Stephanie Snyder Viewpoint Anita Covelli Frank McGehee Kathy Welsh Tony Paganelli Joy Harris Sports Systems Rick Kurz Amalia Meier Circulation Fritz Valsaint Bill O'Roukrke Scoreboard Matt Novak Chris Cooney 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 7. Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
X

® © [[ill ~ [i] ~ ~ 
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's high: 82 Yesterday's low: 62 Nation's high: 115 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 31 (Truckee, Calif.) 
Forecast: Variable cloudiness to­day with a 30 percent chance of thunder­storms. Highs in the lower 80s. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow with lows in the lower 60s and highs again in the lower 80s. 
OF INTEREST 

Tim Roemer, Notre Dame alumnus and the Democratic candidate for the U.S. House of Representa­Irish Accent is holding auditions tonight at 7 tives in Indiana's 3rd District, will address students and p.m. Call Tim Farish at 283-2924 to reserve a place in the faculty in the Dillon Hall Chapel tonight at 7:30 p.m. auditions. Voter registration will immediately follow. 
The Center for Basic Learning Skills needs ded­

College bound students need tutors in all subjects icated Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students to volunteer one on Tuesday and Thursday from 4:15 to 5:45 p.m. and morning a week to tutor illiterate adults in South Bend. Wednesday from 6 to 7:30p.m. Contact Upward Bound at Transportation is provided. There is an orientation meet­
239-5669. 

ing tonight at 7 p.m. at the CSC. Call Matt Cleary at 277­7371 for more information. Senior Portraits will be taken until Sept. 21. Sign up 
at the Information Desk in LaFortune. Model United Nations will be holding an organiza­tional meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 124, Hayes­
Free "Bar-8-Q" Packages, with enough food to Healy Center. for ten people, will be raffied off by BACCHUS for each of the six home football games. Students may sign up in the dining halls today and tomorrow at lunch. 
WORLD Prime Minister Margaret 
Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian Thatcher said Sunday she may stay in youth Sunday in the first lethal clash between troops and office another five years and would stone-throwing activists in three weeks, Arab reports not rule out being prime minister at said. The clash in the West Bank village of Beita came as the age of 70. She was first elected Palestinians throughout the occupied lands observed a Conservative Party leader in 1975 and general strike marking 33 months since the start of their came to power when her Conservative uprising against Israel. Palestinian reporters identified Party won in the 1979 general election. the victim as 17-year-old Ahmad Abu Seif, saying he died She since has led the party to two after soldiers shot him in the chest while chasing a group general election victories. "I am not immortal, but I've got of stone-throwers into a field in Beita. Abu Seif was the a lot left in me yet," said Thatcher, who will be 65 next 729th Palestinian killed by Israelis during the revolt that month. began Dec. 8, 1987. 
NATIONAL 

The stabbing death of a 30~year-old woman has About 700 marchers in Seattle protested U.S. mili­renewed concern about eight other deaths Philadelphia tary involvement in the Persian Gulf over the weekend, police have said may be the work of a serial killer. A man chanting "Hell, no, we won't go, we won't fight for Tex­has been jailed without bond since May in one of the pre­aco," and "Money for school, not for war." The crowd vious deaths, which date back five years. All the previous listened to speeches Saturday at Seattle Center before victims were women, ranging in age from 28 to 68, who marching peacefully downtown. The rally was organized had been repeatedly stabbed or bludgeoned. Several had by the Northwest Coalition Against U.S. Military Interven­been sexually assaulted. Five of the previous victims were tion in the Mideast. Among the protesters was Korean killed in Frankford, a working-class neighborhood on the War veteran Don Alexander. A hand-lettered sign taped city's east side, and the others were killed nearby or fre­to his wheelchair said: "No blood for oil." quented bars in the neighborhood. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC A pregnant Indiana resident and her two e In 1608: John Smith was children were among hundreds of Americans 

elected president of the 
Jamestown colony council in Vir­
evacuated from the Persian Gulf crisis Sunday in 
ginia.

a government-chartered jet flying out of Iraq. 
Joan Khaja of New Harmony and more than 400 
e1n 1963: Twenty black students 
women and children were aboard an Iraqi Air­
entered public schools in Birming­
ways jumbo jet that arrived in London from 
ham, Tuskegee and Mobile, Ala.,

Baghdad, her sister Pauline Gerard said. Khaja, 
following a standoff between fed­

26, is traveling with her children, 1-year-old Basil 
eral authorities and Governor Ge­

and 2-year-old Janon. 
orge C. Wallace. 
NYSE Index e1n 1989: Hungary gave permis­

Former Governor and u.s. Health and Hu­
177.51 +1.45 sion for thousands of East Ger­
man Services Secretary Otis "Doc" Bowen has 
S&P Composite man refugees and visitors to emi­

lent his name to a medical research center that 
323.40 • 2.94 grate to West Germany. 

will promote preventive medicine and access to 
Dow Jones Industrials 

health care. Indiana University will begin fund­
eTen years ago: The League of 2,619.55 • 5.19
raising activities Wednesday for what will become 
Women Voters tried but failed to 

the Bowen Center at its School of Medicine in In­
persuade President Carter to par­
Precious Metals

dianapolis. A dinner that night will pay tribute to 
ticipate in a three-way campaign 

the 72-year-old physician from Bremen who has 
Gold +$0.20 to $389.50/ oz. debate with Republican nominee 

retired from public service after a four-year stint 
Ronald Reagan and independent
Silver+ 3.0¢ to $4.8001 oz. 

at HHS secretary in the Reagan administration. 
John Anderson. 


AP Photo

Rescue bid 
Two firemen try to prevent an unidentified Filipino woman, in striped shirt, from jumping from a 22nd floor window ledge outside the Philippine Consulate in Hong Kong Thursday. The woman broke loose and fell three floors to another ledge and was reported in serious condition at a hospital Friday. 
The Observer page 3 



New ND academic department heads announced by Provost 
Special to The Observer 
These are the names of faculty appointed to head their Notre Dame academic de­partments as announced by Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
•Barbara 
Allen, associate professor and chairperson of the department of American studies, College of Arts and Let­ters; · 

•James 
Bellis, associate pro­fessor and chairperson of the department of anthropology, College of Arts and Letters; 

•Daniel 
Costello, professor and acting chairman of the de­partment of computer science 


and engineering, College of Engineering; 
•Amitava 
Dutt, professor and acting chairman of the depart­ment of economics, College of Arts and Letters; 

•Thomas 
Frecka, Lizzadro professor and chairman of the department of accountancy, College of Business Administra­tion; 

•Gary 
Gutting, professor and chairperson of the department of philosophy, College of Arts and Letters; 

•William 
Kremer, associate professor and acting chairper­son for the fall semester of the department of art, art history 


and design, College of Arts and Letters; 
•Thomas 
Kselman, associate professor and chairperson of the department of history, Col­lege of Arts and Letters; 

•
Khalil Matta, associate pro­fessor and acting chairperson of the Department of Manage­ment, College of Business Ad­ministration; 

•Patrick 
Murphy, professor and chairperson of the depart­ment of marketing, College of Business Administration; and 

•Father 
James Rigert, asso­ciate professor and chairman of the department of earth sciences, College of Science. 


Zodiac killer and Dartman highlight a violent summer in New York City 
NEW YORK (AP) -An infant asleep on a couch. A business executive spea~Jng on a pay phone. A tourist standing on a subway platform. A 78-year­old man out for an evening walk. A prosecutor buying doughnuts. 
In the violent summer of 1990, they wen} among hun­dreds of murder victims in New York City. Memorial Day ar­rived with the Zodiac killer; the Labor Day weekend ended with a tourist from Utah stabbed to 
The University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration 
announces 

an organizational meeting for all business administration seniors currently enrolled in BA 490, ..Corporate Strategy .. , who may be interested in joining the 
NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL CASE TOURNAMENT TEAM 
Monday, September 17, 1990 7:00PM room 220, Hayes-Healy Center 
for more information, contact Professor Gar Kern 239-6070 
death in the subway while de­fending his mother from mug­gers. 
The three months in between continued a five-year trend of escalating summer violence, experts said. Killings continued at a record pace as the city ap­peared headed for a new homi­cide record of more than 2,000 for the year. 
"Clearly, this is the worst of times. The numbers are higher than ever for murders," said Thomas Reppetto, head of the watchdog Citizens Crime Com­mission. 
"This has got to be the worst summer since the Son of Sam" in 1977, said James Deady, a New Yorker for 27 years. "And that was a serial killer. This is much more wanton." 
Six out of 10 New Yorkers say they would live elsewhere if they could, and three-quarters describe the city as dangerous and dirty, according to a Time magazine-Cable News Network poll released Sunday. 
New York, historically and statistically, is a violent place. The average day sees five mur­ders, nine rapes, 256 robberies, 332 burglaries and 367 auto thefts. 
Walt Whitman, writing 150 
years ago, warned: "New York 
is onP of the most crime­
haunted and dangerous cities 
in Christendom." 
But this summer, violence was as constant as the heat. Victims were chosen by their 


TONIGHT Joseph Garba, President of the General Assembly, UN 
"New Politics i\mong Nations" 
Washington Hall, 7:00pm 
Tuesday, September 11 African (~ultural & Musical Evening with 
The Jeke Ba11d of Chicago 

Stepan Center 7:30 pm 
Free of Charge 
birth signs or their clothes. Panhandlers turned ugly if turned down. Children asleep in their homes or cars became shooting victims. Muggers killed cab drivers at the rate of nearly three a month. 
"I get the sense it was a more violent summer that usual. I think the fact that children were killed, that an assistant DA in the Bronx was killed ­these are people you don't ex­pect to get caught in the cross­frre," said Barbara Price, dean of graduate studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. 
The summer started with a cryptic note found beside a 78­year-old shooting victim. "Zodiac-time to die," it read. Joseph Proce, who was out for a late night walk, died 24 days after the May 31 shooting. 
The Zodiac also shot three 
people who survived. Then the 
mysterious killer disappeared 
and headlines were taken over 
by the Dartman. Between June 
26 and a July 12 arrest of a 
suspec~ an assailant used a 
blowgun to fire small, home­
made darts at 55 women in 
midtown Manhattan. 
A rash of fatal shootings in­
volving children had Mayor 
David Dinkins on the defensive 
around the same time. Four 
children, age 9 months to 9 
years, were shot to death in 
eight days at the end of July. 
On Sunday, Dinkins spoke at St. Patrick's Cathedral to ask New Yorkers to "come out from behind locked doors" to battle violence in the city's streets. 
"Come out and put your eyes and ears on the streets; come out to help stop the violence," said Dinkins, who joined Cardi­nal John O'Connor at Mass. 
On July 31, a television execu­
tive was shot to death while 
making a call at a Greenwich 
Village pay phone. Authorities 
say he was shot by a homeless 
man reportedly incensed by his 
rebuff of a request for spare 
change. 
August concluded with a double shot of violence: a pros­ecutor was killed by a stray bullet as he bought doughnuts in the Bronx and a former state senator was shot to death in his Brooklyn office on Aug. 30. 
Three days later, Brian Watkins, 22, of Provo, Utah, in town to see the U.S. Open tennis tournament, was stabbed to death in a Manhattan subway station while defending his mother· from muggers. That slaying reinforced the percep­tion of· out-of-towners that New York is out of control. 
r-------~~-----~------~-~-­
~ 
I 
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990
I 



Saddam tells superpowers to stay out of gulf crisis 
(AP)-Iraq's Saddarn Hussein bear in mind that "Iraq's army unjustifiable act of backing off, Scowcroft said, "I strategic waterway. on Saturday urged Presidents did not invade either of your aggression." think he's maneuvering at In Kuwait, two more em­
Bush and Gorbachev on the eve of their summit to get out of the Persian Gulf crisis and let the Arab world settle the matter. 
A U.S.-chartered flight carrying about 300 Americans from Kuwait and Iraq meanwhile, landed in Frankfurt, West Germany early Sunday and, after refueling, was to continue on to Charleston, S.C. The plane arrived from Amman, Jordan. 
Saddarn, in a statement read by an announcer on Iraqi tele" vision and billed as an open message to the U.S. and Soviet leaders, told them: "I am not saying to either of you ... what your decision should be." 
But he said Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev should 

countries." 
Saddarn, whose Aug. 2 takeover of Kuwait set off the chain of events leading to the summit in Helsinki, Finland, described Iraq as a peace-lov­ing nation and warned of dan­gers of the huge U.S.-led buildup of forces in the gulf region. 
"God and history are witness ... that the foreign intervention is complicating matters and will not provide a settlement," he said. 
In Helsinki, Bush and Gor­bachev expressed hopes for a settlement to the Persian Gulf crisis, now in its sixth week. 
Bush told reporters on ar­rival he hoped the summit would "strengthen our common approach to this 
The Soviet president, arriving later, cited the "acute crisis" in the gulf. "I hope this meeting will be successful," he said. 
Bush's National Security Ad­viser Brent Scowcroft sug­gested that the prospect of U.S.-Soviet unity on the Persian Gulf has Saddarn on the run. 
"We hope it causes him to lose some sleep," Scowcroft told reporters after a Saturday evening working dinner in Bush's hotel suite. 
"We've put together a strat­egy that has a good chance of success without the use of military force," Scowcroft said, referring to the trade embargo against Iraq. 
Asked whether Saddarn was present ... looking for a way out of his dilemma." 
Iraq, meanwhile, sought to solidify its new rapprochement with Iran in an effort to get around U.N. economic sanctions. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz is due in Tehran on Sunday for the first high-level visit in a decade. Tehran's Jornhuri Islarni newspaper said in an editorial that Aziz would return to Iraq "with his hands full" if Iraq continues its conciliatory policy toward Iran. 
This policy has included Iraq's withdrawal of troops from Iranian territory, its ex­change of war prisoners, and its dropping of a long-standing demand for full control of a bassies bowed to the pressure brought to bear by the Iraqi occupiers. Sweden and Norway evacuated their diplo­matic staffs but insisted their missions technically remained open. 
The Iraqis, who ordered em­bassies in the conquered emi­rate to close two weeks ago, have been backing up that de­mand with a cutoff of food, water, power and telephone service to the missions. 
About 20 embassies, includ­ing the U.S. mission, remain open with skeleton staffs to symbolize their refusal to ac­cept Iraq's annexation of Kuwait, and to try to provide some protection for their citi­zens trapped by the invasion. 
Bed 
continued from page 1 
in college, they have many common experiences to share. 
Visitors are noted for raving about the sense of community that is characteristic of South Bend, according to Behnke. It is in these homes that that spirit can be extended to Bed 'N Breakfast guests. A network of friends have used the Registry from all over the United States, San Salvador, and Puerto Rico. 

Behnke interviews prospec­tive hosts as well as visits their homes. "I have high standards and I follow the Bed 'N Break­fast Association of Housekeep­ing, which is impeccable. Homes range from spacious and elegant to bungalows. But all of them contain an attractive room or rooms with com­fortable beds and, in some cases, a private bath," she said. 
Prices begin at $50 per night per double occupancy. Reserva­tions are made through the Behnke residence where guests are placed in homes relatively close to Notre Dame. 
In addition to horne football games, accommodations are made for Junior Parents Weekend, Morn's Weekend at Saint Mary's, Graduation, Plate Convention and Freshman Orientation. 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry will also take requests from the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame offices. Accommodations would be available from outside the family and friends group throughout the year. 
Although the Registry is not listed in the Yellow Pages, it 


Summit 
continued from page 1 
said he was interested in ef­forts to help Moscow's new economic policies, and vowed to cooperate in as many ways as possible. 
But he said differences re­main, and the United States has its own economic problems. Bush said he will recommend to Congress that there be "as close cooperation in the economic field as possible." 
Gorbachev was at pains to say that Moscow wasn't coop­erating on the Kuwait crisis in order to get economic aid. "It would be very superficial to judge that the Soviet Union could be bought for dollars," he said. 
On one point of friction, the presence of Soviet military ad­visers in Iraq, Gorbachev said the number of advisers had been reduced from 193 to about 150. "They are leaving Iraq and the process is moving forward, so I don't think it's a problem," he said. There had been speculation that Gor­bachev would agree to with­draw all the advisers. 
Asked if war in the Persian Gulf was inevitable, Bush told reporters: 
"I hope that we can achieve a peaceful solution and the way to do that is to have Iraq comply with the United Nations resolutions. and I think the part of our joint statement, two short lines, said it most clearly: 'Nothing short of the complete im­plementation of the United Nations Security Council reso­lutions is acceptable.­
Bush added, "As soon as Saddarn Hussein realizes that, then there certainly will be a peaceful resolution to this question." 
"The United States is deter­mined to see these resolutions enforced, and I like to feel that they will be enforced, and that that will result in a peaceful resolution" of the conflict, Bush said. 
0). It bri~ out th~ best """""..:. In all of l.K 
. 


ACCOUNTING GRADUATES SHOULDN'T BE TREATED LIKE NUMBERS. Accordingly, we'd like to know your name. 
Ours is UJB Financial...one of the fastest-growing, family­oriented services organizations that can offer accounting students advantages which public firms can't. 
See Sue Jacobson when she visits your campus and you'll get all the information you need to make the right decision about your future. 
UJB Financial. Where you get the challenges of numbers without becoming one. See placement office for details. 
niUJB 
f({QFJNANCIAL 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN. 
.. 

~ ·.~. "1'1.: ?. l: l'> '· -.>r.;. ";..1. t, '): 1, ').'). ., 7 T, l:t -, ·• .... ,-~,··· ""t._"l"'\ .... -.-,.-;'1"''"'•-•"1"\ • -.-.-............ ,. 
~-~ -----~ -~-----------------­
Monday, September 10, 1990 The Obse,rver page-5 




Knife found in home of su~spect in U. of Fla. killings 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­State agents who searched a suspect's home in the killing of five college students found a knife hidden in a milk carton, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
The Gainesville Sun quoted two sources close to the inves­tigation as saying that the knife was found Thursday as agents searched the In­dialantic home of Edward Humphrey, his Gainesville apartment and his car. 
Police in Colby, Kan., said Sunday that Humphrey was told to leave the town in west­ern Kansas last month, about two weeks before the killings in Gainesville, because of his suspicious behavior, including arguing with a hitchhiker and later driving slowly through residential areas. 
Humphrey, 18, hasn't been landlords. charged in the slayings but Humphrey is being in lieu of has been identified by police 
$1 million bond in the Brevard 
as one of eight suspects. They County jail in Sharpes for al­have refused to call him the legedly assaulting his grand­prime suspect. mother the night of his return The Sun reported that the from summer school at the 
knife was found where Gainesville campus, where he Humphrey told investigators is a freshman. His earlier this month it would be. grandmother has said she Lab tests will be performed to wants to drop the charges. determine if the knife is linked Alachua County Sheriffs Lt. to the killings. Spencer Mann reported 
All of the victims died from Sunday that the crime scenes 
multiple stab wounds, police said. 
Also confiscated from the home, owned by Humphrey's 79-year-old grandmother, Elna Hlavaty, were books, videotapes, and clothing. Humphrey lived there with his mother and grandmother. 
Gainesville police Lt. Sadie 

l.Jrcoming Events 

-Washington Hall 
MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 10 Address and Reception 
H.E. MAJOR-GENERAL JOSEPH N. GARBA 
President of the General Assembly of the United Nations 
"NEW POLITICS AMONG NATIONS: EMPOWERING THE UNITED NATIONS TO DEAL WITH THE 1990s" 
Co-eponaorecl with the ND African Student Aeaocllllion u part of Africa Week 
TUESDA~SEPTEMBER11 
Panel 
ROBERT C. JOHANSEN Senior Fellow, liPS and DAVID CORTRIGHT VIsiting Faculty Fellow, liPS 
"ASSESSING THE MIDDLE EAST CONFLICT: WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS?" Moderator: GEORGE A. LOPEZ 
-Room 121 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR 
NTERNATIONAL 



111111 ~~~;~!:~ 
had finally been released by
Edward Humphrey 
police. Darnell said Friday that "We feel at this point that "promising evidence" was 
nothing more is going to be found in the searches, but she 
gained. We have recovered all refused to elaborate. we are going to recover," Meanwhile, police said the 
Mann said. three apartments where the 
In Colby, Kan., an officer in­five University of Florida tervened in an argument be­students were murdered have 
tween Humphrey and a hitch­been released to their 
hiker he had picked up Aug. 
10, said Police Chief Randy Jones. Humphrey then asked the officer where he could use a certain gasoline credit card and the officer pointed out a station about three blocks away, Jones said. 
"But he drove right past it and he was then seen driving slowly through some residential areas," Jones said. "The officer stopped him, asked him if he needed some assistance and they came to the mutual agreement that Humphrey would leave town." 
Hours after Humphrey left Colby, he was arrested in Col­orado's Crowley County, about 90 miles west of the Kansas border, after he allegedly failed to pay for $12 worth of gasoline at a convenience store, Sheriff's Sgt. Allan Turner said Thursday. 
Biological research center established by alum's gift 
Special to The Observer 
A research center to study the molecular structures of com­plex molecules, especially those of biological interest, has been established at the University of Notre Dame by a $500,000 gift from Dominique Lizzadro, a 1933 Notre Dame graduate. 
The Lizzadro Magnetic Reso­nance Research Center will be dedicated in Nieuwland Science Hall on Sept. 13. 
The center features a state­of-the-art nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer that enables researchers to obtain a three-dimensional picture of molecules in solution. Such a picture helps scientists to better understand the function and behavior of molecules within a system. 
Although the research center was established to focus specif­
ically on biochemical studies, such as cancer research, it will 
----------------------~ 


U.S. city councils utilize
Maple Lane 


hotlines to dispell rumors
BarberShop 
be equally useful to researchers studying complex organic and inorganic molecules. 
Lizzadro worked as an exam­iner for the Illinois Insurance Department before 1949 when he formed his own company in Oak Park, Ill. He retired as the company's president in 1985. 
A native of Baragiano, Italy, Lizzadro received his bachelor's degree in business administra­tion from Notre Dame. In his local community he is known for spearheading the renova­tion of many of Oak Park's older buildings. 
One of the structures, an of­fice and shopping complex that contains his company's main offices, received an interna­tional architectural award for the restoration to its 1908 original condition. 
The facility is under the di­rection of Anthony Serianni, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Sorry,
2112 S. Bend Ave. 
sir, there are no plans for an underwater shopping mall in
One mile fro1n 
the Inner Harbor. No, ma'am, a highway is not coming through your living room. And
campus next 
to Coach's 
no, pull tabs from soda cans 
and empty cigarette packs do 
not pay for kidney dialysis. 
iC iC 


~OPHOMORESi 
iC iC Say "FAREWELL to •~ 

• iC
SUMMER}} 

on the CLASS CRUISE on LAKE MICHIGAN.ie THURSDAY I SEPT. 13th. iC
•
iC 
Tickets available now!!! 
iC 
$20 through Tuesday. iC $25 (if available) Wed/Thurs.ie 
• 
iC • 
Purchase tix in Soph Class Off1ce (213 LaFortune) 3-Sp~ Buses depart Main Circle at 515pm. Return llt lllm. 
.ic 
iC 
For 22 years, operators at the city's rumor control center have been handing out facts and dispelling rumors for con­fused or curious citizens. 
"The rumor was it would be an underwater mall and they would have a restaurant and you could pick out your dinner from behind the glass," said Tom Saunders, who's worked for the hot line for 10 years. "We had contractors calling up wanting to build it." 
Rumor control hot lines were opened in several major cities in the 1960s to ease tension in the wake of race riots. Although the violence of that era has passed, Baltimore's hot line still has a place, and some cities that dropped theirs are reviving the idea, Saunders said. 
Philadelphia recently opened a rumor-control hot line after a black man was shot to death by a Korean shopkeeper, he said. 
Besides handling the frivolous rumors, Baltimore officials say, the hot line keeps the public informed about topics that could affect health or safety -and helps the city to keep in touch with its residents. 
"It's a place people can call to get good information, but also cast a straw vote, in effect, for things the city should be doing to enhance the community," said City Council President Mary Pat Clarke. 

~~.-~-----~~-~----~-----~--~------------~-­
-r-----~-~ ~ ~-----~---~---­
The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990
page 6 


The American frigate, USS Vandegrift, right, takes on fuel from the British Royal fleet auxiliary tanker Orangeleaf, in the Persian Gulf on Thursday. President Bush said Sunday that U.S. forces would re­main stationed in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere in the area for as long as necessary to get the job done. 
Texas prison to reconsider system of marking homosexuals with wristbands 
Today thru Friday, Sept. 14 9am-5pm 
Notre Dame Room (2'Ki floor), 
LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) ­A Fort Worth jail has promised to reconsider its system of marking ho­mosexual inmates with colored wristbands, a policy one gay activist said was "like throwing meat to the dogs." 
All prisoners at Tarrant County Jail wear colored wristbands: red for felons, blue for misdemeanor offend­ers, orange for those awaiting transfer to federal prisons, yellow for prisoners with medical problems and gray for homosexuals. 
New inmates are questioned as they enter the jail, which houses both men and women. Those who say they are homo­sexual or bisexual are allowed protective custody because homosexuals are common targets of abuse by other inmates, jail officials said Saturday. 
Homosexual inmates who choose protective custody are 

BEFORE YOU HAVE TO BURY YOUR HEAD IN BOOKS... 

Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BLOWDRY 
$ff95 
• No Appointment! 
• 
7 Days a Week! 

• 
FBEE Tanning ­Buy4-Get4 FBEE! 


INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTI.JRE 
given gray wristbands and housed in isolated groups, although they mingle with the rest of the prisoners during meals and exercise breaks, of­ficials said. 
"We need to make sure one prisoner is not abusing another prisoner for any reason, and this is an aid to us," said John Pempsell, the chief deputy sheriff who oversees the jail. 
Many homosexual activists and civil libertarians said the wristbands invite abuse, rather than deter it. 
"You're putting a sign around their neck like, 'Come and Beat on Me,'" said Ed Ko­ren, a Washington attorney for the National Prison Project of the American Civil Uberties Union. 
Tarrant County Gay Alliance member Thomas Bruner said the policy is "like throwing meat to the dogs." 


Budget talks in 3rd day; deadline Mon. 
ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE, Md. (AP) Congressional leaders and White House negotiators raced the clock Sunday, trying to narrow their differences over the budget and reach an agreement for fiscal 1991. 
The two sides worked for a third straight day at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, 20 minutes from the capital. Lawmakers have said they want to finish work by Monday to give Congress time to enact a package of savings by the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year. 
One official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the bargainers were discussing going to the on White House Monday to try to complete their work. 

President Bush was scheduled to return to Washington late Sunday after his Helsinki summit 
meeting  with  Soviet  
President  Mikhail Gor­ 
bachev.  

Congress and the Bush administration have been deadlocked all year over how to reduce the deficit. 
The bargainers have been searching for a combination of new taxes and spending cuts producing $50 billion in savings for next year and $500 billion over the next five years. Inaction could mean a record $250 billion deficit next year. 
Democrats and Republicans have clashed all year over how to achieve budget savings. 


Jail administrator Bill Broome met Thursday with two members of the gay alliance and said the policy. which has been in effect for years, would be reconsidered. 
"No policy is set in concrete," Broome said. "But the question has never before been brought to my at­tention." 
Broome did not say when 
YOU ROMAN CATHEDRAL! 
We loue you, 
Brenda, Julie, Bill, Kate & Dersheeka! 
GRAPE RD .. MISHAWAKA 277-7946 
3 LARGE PRIN.TS FOR $15!", I 
HOURS Oa1ly 9~8 

-·-···---. ----......:__ -· ----------·~ . . . --~-·-~ 
Saturday 9-6 • Suoday ·• ; 
'Copynght Ch1cago Yan Cutt1ng ':J '-:I':IL 
page 7 


Miss America title goes to Miss Illinois 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ­Miss Illinois Marjorie Vincent, a pianist of Haitian descent yvho wants* 'tQ practice International law, was crowned Miss America 1991 early Sunday. 
Miss Vincent broke into tears and smiled brightly as she given a surprise serenade of "There She Is" by Bert Parks, who returned to the pageant 10 years after he was fired as emcee. 
"I couldn't believe it," she said afterward. "I was just so happy that I was in the Top 
10. I still don't believe it." 
Irish MTV? The Observer 1E.G. Bailey 
Asked what she would do
Among the many activities featured at the La Fortune Student Center open house was Fun Flicks: To­
next, Vincent said, "I have no
tally Interactive Video, in which students could make their own music videos or movies. Costumes, 
idea. I just want to see my
backgrounds and music were supplied by the video company free of charge. 
family." First runner-up was Miss South Carolina Mary Gainey, 
Oklahoma executes murderer by lethal 
24, of Hartsv.ille. Following her as second 
runner-up was Miss Tennessee Dana Brown, 25, of 
injection; first state execution in 24 years 
McALESTER, Okla. (AP) -A man convicted in the shotgun slaying of someone who walked in on a burglary was put to death by injection early Monday in Oklahoma's first execution in 24 years. 
Charles Troy Coleman, 43, was pronounced dead at 
12:35 a.m. at Oklahoma State Penitentiary. 
"Just tell everybody I love them and I have a peace and quiet heart," he said before he was given the lethal injection in his left arm. 
He became the 138th person executed in the United States since the U.S. Supreme Court in 1976 allowed states to resume use of the death penalty. 
Oklahoma becomes the 15th state since 1976 to resume executions. The last person put to death in Oklahoma was James D. French, electrocuted in 1966 for killing his cellmate. Oklahoma has 115 people on death row, four of them women. 
Coleman had been sentenced to die for the 1979 slaying of John Seward in Muskogee. Seward, 68, and his wife, Roxie, 62, were killed when they surprised a burglar at a relative's home. Coleman was not tried in Mrs. Seward's death. 
Coleman's truck was seen at the home, and custom-cut meat and other possessions from the house were found in his truck when he was arrested. 
The U.S. Supreme Court twice denied requests Sunday to block the execution, the sixth and seventh time the high court had turned Coleman down, and a federal appeals court also refused a stay. 
Memphis. Miss Texas Suzanne 
Defense attorney Mandy 
Lawrence, 21, of Humble wasWelch raised mental compe­
third runner-up, while Miss
tency questions iln seeking a 
Louisiana Linnea Marie
stay of execution. 
Fayard, 22, of Shreveport took 
The inmate's final motion 
fifth place. 
for a stay was denied 6-1 by the U.S. Supreme Court late Earlier in the pageant, the
Sunday. Justice Thurgood 
7 5-year-old Parks serenadedMarshall dissented and Justice 29 former Miss Americas with 
Harry Clackmun did not 
a lip-synched "There She Is"participate. 
that wasn't quite synched. A
Coleman's lawyers lost a 
standing ovation greeted
series of appealls in recent 
Parks, neglected
days. On Saturday, they lost who to 
mention at least a dozen ofan effort to overturn a federal the former beauty queens hejudge's refusal to order the was to introduce. 
state Pardon and Parole 
Vincent, 25, of Oak Park, isBoard to conduct. a clemency 
a third-year law student at
hearing. 

Duke University who
A second clemency appeal 
graduated from DePaul
was made to Gov.. Henry Bell­
University in 1988 with a
man. That appeal said 
degree in music. 
Coleman had changed since 
She played Chopin's
1979 and had started a 
"Fantasy Impromptu -Opusreligious ministry in prison, 66" with dramatic flourishessaid Andrew Tevington, the governor's legal counsel. 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEETINGS 
TUES SEPT. 4 7P~1 MON SEPT. 10 7Pl\J1 Library Auditorium 
Seminar on how to write an effective personal statement with Prof. Marullo 
* Both sessions are mandatory* 
and a light touch during the talent portion of the competition. 
The 5-foot-6, 110-pound 
Vincent performed in a rust 
satin embroidered coat 
detailed in gold cracked ice 
over a black sheath petticoat 
dress. 
She wore a turquoise chiffon 
silk gown that was beaded 
with silver, white and varying 
shades of turquoise bugle 
beads., sequins and 
rhinestones. The gown also 
featured a sweetheart 
neckline with a keyhole 
opening in the back. 
Vincent, who came to the 
United States from Haiti when 
she was 3 years old, has said 
she wants to study interna­
tional law and help in the eco­
nomic development of the im­
poverished Caribbean nation. 
She speaks French and creole. 
Vincent comes from a 
modest family. Her father is a 
doorman and a check cashier 
and her mother is a 
seamstress. 
She said in a pre-pageant 
interview that she wants to 
speak out on the plight of 
battered women. 
Miss Vincent was the only 
black contestant among the 50 
this year. Last year's Miss 
America, Debbye Turner, also 
is black. Miss Vincent is the 
fourth black woman to hold 
the title. 
Vanessa Williams, then Miss 
New York, was the first in 
1983. She lost the crown be­
cause nude photos taken 
years earlier appeared in 
Penthouse magazine. She was 
replaced by first runner-up 
Suzette Charles, Miss New 
Jersey, who also is black. 
Among her interests, Vincent lists listening to chamber music and jazz, collecting mugs, cooking, reading mysteries and romance novels. 
The other semifinalists were Miss Colorado Karrie Mitchell, 24; Miss Iowa Kerri Lynne Rosenberg, 26; Miss Oklahoma Cynthia Lynne White, 24; Miss Pennsylvania Marla Wynne, 23, and Miss Virginia Shannon Noelle DePuy, 19. 
They scored the highest after three nights of preliminary competitions in swimsuit, talent, evening gown and interviews with judges. 
Miss South Carolina, like Miss Turner, played the marimba. Miss Pennsylvania performed a ventriloquist act with a green cockatoo puppet named Oscar. 
Several of the contestants overcame personal tragedies and disabilities to make it to the Boardwalk. 





SMC/ND NEEDS 
We need EVERYONE to help out with the SMC/ND Relations Committee. Don't be 
RELATIONS YOU! 
shy-Just Do It! Come on and lend a helping hand! For more information on our first spectacular meeting call: Pete at 287-2218 or Susan at 284-5047 



page 8 The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990 
Pope blesses largest Christian church in the world 
YAMOUSSOUKRO, Ivory Coast (AP) -Pope John Paul II arrived Sunday to consecrate the biggest Christian church in the world, a basilica that rivals the grandeur of St. Peter's. Op­ponents say the country can't afford it. 
Heavy security was in place around Yamoussoukro, the native town of President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, to prevent anti-government demonstra­tions by recently legalized op­position parties. 
Architect Pierre Fakhoury defended construction of the church in a country where Ro­man Catholics are estimated to make up less than 15 percent of the 10 million people. Most of the people are animists and Moslems. 
"The president swore he would give God the biggest and most beautiful church he could," he told reporters. 
On Thursday, police fired tear gas and used truncheons to break up an attempt by opposition leaders to stage a peaceful march in Abidjan, 

Prosecutors inclined to bust bingo 
NEW ALBANY, Ind. (AP) ­When bingo was illegal in Indiana, prosecutors looked the other way because the games run by churches, charities and other non-profit groups generally benefited good causes. 
Not that bingo is legal in the state, however, prosecutors are taking a closer look at the games to make sure there's no undue profiteering. 
"There's some concern among some prosecutors that the statute is somewhat loose," said Richard Good, executive director of the Indiana Prosecuting Attorneys Council. 
On July 1, a law took effect legalizing bingo to raise money for non-profit organizations. As of last week, 1,043 charitable groups had registered with the state, said Jane Kelley, a deputy 150 miles south of here. A British Broadcasting Corp. television team that tried to meet with opposition leaders was briefly detained Sunday. 

Houphouet-Boigny has ruled this nation as a one-party state since independence from France in 1960. 
The pope met with the president at his residence Sunday evening. 
Among the dignitaries who 

were to attend the Monday 
Pope John Paul II

morning consecration were South African Foreign 
to come to Yamoussoukro forMinister Pik Botha, French the service. 
Cooperation Minister Jacques Pelletier and Jean-Christophe The consecration ceremony
Mitterrand, the son and 
will end a 1 0-day papal tour
counselor of President 
of four African nations, during Francois Mitterrand. 
which the pope has called forCardinals and bishops from a narrowing of the economic18 African nations and about gap between the continent's350,000 people also were to urban elite and rural poor.
attend the consecration of the Earlier Sunday, in Kigali, theBasilica of Our Lady of Peace, capital of Rwanda, the Polish­which towers over this small born pope prayed to "the Vir­town 150 miles north of Abid­gin Mary, queen of peace," ap­jan. 
pealing for her intercession to
The Ivorian League of 
bring peace to the world, par­
Human Rights charged 
ticularly in the Persian Gulf.
Sunday that authorities had A Rwandan government offi­forced thousands of villagers 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents Catholic University's National Players performing THE TAMING OF THE SHREW 
Wednesday Sept. 19 thru Saturday, Sept 22 8:10pm 
, ~' Sunday, Sept. 23 3:10pm 
Washington Hall 

Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office $7 $5 StuJ Sen. Cit.~ Wed., Thu., Sun. 
Master Card/ Visa orders call 239-8128 


If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better l5AT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our l5AT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" l5AT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE" lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor. 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
secretary of state. 



Bishop 
continued from page 1 
to build an "international skills tank" which would allow them to contribute to the re­construction when the time comes, according to Lopez. 
The organization, which cur­rently has about two dozen participants, is hoping to ex­pand their membership in fu­ture years after they have gained official recognition by the university. CAUSA also in­tends to become involved in bringing more Cuban-American students to Notre Dame. 
There will be a conference sponsored by CAUSA on November 1 -3 which will bring together Cuban legal scholars, historians, and community leaders to discuss a future constitution for the country and to inaugurate a "think tank" which will facilitate a transition to democracy. 
Anyone of Cuban heritage who is interested in becoming involved in CAUSA should con­tact Lopez in the dean's office at the law school. 



INDUSTRY DAY 
for all ENGINEERING students SEPTEMBER 19 CAREER FAIR 11:00am-4:00pm Fitzpatrick Hall HORS D'OEUVRE HOUR %:30-6:30 South Bend Marriott sponsored by General Electric (Aerospace Division) BANQUET 6:30 pm transportation provided 
Representatives from over 35 major companies Opportunities for full-time employment and summer interships 
Bring your resumes! 
REGISTER NOW for the BANQUET -Sit at the table with your choice of company representatives -Delicious dinner cooked by Marriott chefs -Distinguished keynote speaker 
Extra forms available in Engineering Student Center-217 Cushing $5 deposit needed now-returned night of banquet REGISTRATION DEADLINE-FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 

cial publicly challenged the pontiff on the church's attitude to AIDS, celibacy and sainthood of Africans. 
Christophe Mfizi, Rwanda's state information director, said doctors were hard pressed to defend Catholic bans on birth control in nations facing a population problem and the use of condoms to prevent the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
John Paul initially declined to visit the basilica in Yamous­soukro, but accepted the invitation after Houphouet­Boigny agreed to build a hospital nearby and grant the Catholic Church permission to open a radio station. 
Houphouet-Boigny, a Catholic, has said he paid for the construction of the basilica with his own money. 
But opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo has questioned how the president, a former cocoa farmer, could afford to pay for a basilica on the scale of St. Peter's in Vatican City. Government opponents have accused Houphouet-Boigny of stealing state funds. 
The government says the basilica cost $140 million, but other estimates have put its cost as high as $250 million. 




Business 
Monday, September 10, 1990 page 9 
Copy service attracts increased student business 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Business Editor 
After almost a year of opera­tion, business at The Copy Shop is rapidly expanding, filling a previously existing gap in the campus market for copying and related services. 
The Copy Shop, owned and run by Dan Foley, a second­year MBA student and 1989 graduate of Notre Dame, began operations in the basement of LaFortune in October, 1989. The purpose of the new busi­ness is to provide a "complimentary service to ex­isting duplicating services on campus," according to Foley. 
One service that has particu­larly taken off this semester is that of compiling 'course pack­ets' for professors to be used as reading and study supple­ments for their students. The course packets serve as a "textbook supplement" and contain anything from sections of books, magazine and journal articles to professors' notes, outlines and copies of overhead transparencies, said Foley. 
The advantage of the course packets is that students need 
Board chairman 
not make as many trips to the reserve reading room in the li­brary, thus saving valuable time, said Foley. "They allow a professor to update their class each semester... keeping infor­mation current." 
Often the materials found in the course packets are sections from books that are out of print and articles that are ei­ther difficult to fmd or that the professors have written them­selves, Foley said. 
Approximately 76 professors from a wide range of depart­ments at the University opted to use The Copy Shop to assemble course packets this semester, according to Foley. 
Course packets provide "one compact format for all their materials," said Foley. Some professors even include course outlines with blank sheets so that student can take notes within the packets, making the packets "interactive teaching instruments." Foley said, "It's senseless to sit in a class and copy transparencies. [The packets] can open the class­room to more discussion." 
The Copy Shop has been espe­cially cautious with respect to the copyright laws governing the reproduction of print mate­rials such as those contained in the course packets, said Foley. 
Permission to reproduce ma­terials must be obtained for each thing that ils copied. Ordi­narily, The Copy Shop sends a fax of the request to reproduce materials directly to the pub­lishers. According -to Foley, "Only a few copyrights have been de:riied." 
The majority of the materials whose request for reproduction were denied were sections out of books currently in print, especially paperbacks, said Fo­ley. There have been few prob­lems with books that are out of print. 
Occasionally, publishers ask for royalty fees for the copies made. For example, a publisher may charge 50 cents per repro­duction, which would then be included in the price of the overall packet, explained Foley. 
According to Father Timothy Scully, assistant professor of government, "You can't find a single volume that fits the [individual professor's] analysis 
AP Photo 


Don Wilson, 17, of South Bend opened a skateboard shop grossing $20,000 in the first year of operations. 
Ford resorts to outsourcing for new parts 
DETROIT (AP)-Workers at Ford Motor Co.'s Cleveland engine plant recently heard some good news. The company will assemble a new engine at the huge, aging complex next to Hopkins International Airport. 
But there's a catch: Some of the engine's components will be made by outside suppliers, some from outside the United States. 
That bothers the United Auto Workers union, which sees the jobs of workers it represents linked to who makes the parts used in assembling Ford vehi­cles. 
"It's a pretty big concern to us," said one UAW official at Local 1250 who asked not to be identified. "We've got some aluminum stuff coming in, and that's being done by somebody else." 
UAW Vice President Stephen Yokich said so-called "outsourcing" is a critical issue in the negotiations between the UAW and the Big Three au­tomakers. UAW contracts cov­ering more than 450,000 work­ers expire at midnight Friday. 
Outsourcing became a hot topic during auto talks in the 1980s. That's when automakers closed plants and laid off workers by the tens of thou­sands to slash costs. 
Companies farm out less work now, but the issue remains. Looking to the future, federal fuel regulations and rapidly changing technology could have an impact on automakers' deci­sions about where to get a part or component. 
Each of the Big Three has too much factory capacity for what it is manufacturing. The UAW reasons that if automakers in­crease self-sufficiency for parts, it could increase the number of union jobs. 

HONDA +38.3% 

AP 

completely. There is just no text that provides the appropriate depth and breadth." In that sense, the course packets are a very useful tool, said Scully. 
Some departments rely heav­ily on magazine and journal articles, and the course packets enable professors to utilize these materials in their courses without forcing students to stand in line at the reserve reading room, said Scully. 
"Most major universities out­side of Notre Dame long ago moved to this pedagogical de­vice. We did it at the University of California, Berkeley when I taught there," said Scully. 
The number of course packets produced by Kinko's Copies has also increased this semester, said Kinko's employee Greg Burns. However, this is due largely to an increase in requests from Indiana University, South Bend, Burns said. 
The number of course packets requested by professors from Notre Dame has decreased slightly this year, said Burns. "This is probably due to the fact that we weren't able to send out notices like last year" to inform professors about this service, said Burns. Those Notre Dame professors who had used Kinko's in previous semesters continue to do so, said Burns. 
"Commercial business has picked up, but business from Notre Dame students seems to be down slightly this year," said Burns. Burns said that some of the business coming from stu­dents could have -gone to The Copy Shop, although many stu­dents continue to use Kinko's. 
Located in the basement of LaFortune, The Copy Shop pro­vides services beyond copying. They offer facsimile (fax) transmission services (both sending and receiving), high speed and volume copying, self­service copy machines, spiral binding, laminating, large 11 "x17" copies, and blue and red toner for copying posters at costs much lower and at a faster speed than printing presses. The shop also sells computer diskettes and office supplies. 
Public schools eam top marks in college buys Seven of top 10 in N.Y., N.J., FL. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Cooper Union, which charges its 1,000 students just $300 a year, leads a new list of best college buys in a Money Magazine guide. 
Seven of the top 10 schools that offer "the best education for the buck" are in New York, Florida or New Jersey, accord­ing to the new annual guide, "The Money Guide to the Best Colleges in America," going on sale at newsstands Monday. 
The top three values -Cooper Union, California Institute of Technology and Rice University -are all private. The remain­ing seven in the guide's top 10 are public universities. 
The 108-page publication, produced in collaboration with Peterson's Guides, lists 100 public and 100 private schools around the country that emerged as best values in a computer analysis that weighed tuition charges against 17 mea­sures of academic perfor­mance. 
The list excluded all two-year colleges and narrowly special­ized or sectarian schools. It also omitted the three U.S. mili­tary academies, which are free and provide excellent education 
but require at least five years' military service, ·'thereby masking their actual cost," ac­cording to the guide. 
Public universities were judged 
on the basis of out-of-state tu­itions, and private schools were judged at their full price exclu­sive of any scholarships or fi­nancial aid. 
Top on the list is Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, ahighly selec­tive private college located in New York City and founded by real estate magnate Peter Cooper 131 years ago. The school provides a $15,000-a­year subsidy to each student from its $100 million endow­ment and contributions. Stu­dents pay only a $300 activities fee. 
The rest of the guide's top 10 
are, in order: 
•California Institute of Tech­nology, Pasadena, Calif., ranked high despite its $13,495 price tag. The school has a teaching faculty of 27 4 for 799 undergraduates. Faculty and 
students  have  won  21  Nobel  
Prizes.  
•Rice  University, Houston,  

uses its $1 billion endowment to keep tuitions at a low $7,160 while maintaining an academic reputation rivaling Ivy League schools. 
•The 
New College of the Uni­versity of South Florida, Sara­sota, combines the small feel of a private school with a public college price: $5,488 for out-of­staters, $1,515 for Floridians. 

•State 
University of New York at Geneseo, a strong liberal arts branch of the 64-campus SUNY system, charges out-of­staters $4,925, $1,575 for New Yorkers. 

•State 
University of New York at Binghamton, a highly com­petitive "public Ivy," strong in liberal arts, costs $4,914 for out-of-state students, $1,564 for in-staters. 

•Trenton 
State College, Tren­ton, N.J., offers a strong core. curriculum for liberal arts stu­dents, at a cost of $3,795 for out-of-staters, $2,720 for New Jersey students. 

•State 
University of New York at Albany, with strong pro­grams in public administration, criminal justice and other gov­ernment-related career tracks, costs $4,835 for out-of-state students, $1,485 for New York­ers. 

•University 
of Virginia, Char­lottesville, long considered one of the top state universities with particularly excellent English and economics depart­ments, charges Virginians 2,966 and out-of-staters $8,136. 

•
University of Florida, Gainesville, boasts 114 majors in 52 disciplines, charges $4,630 for out-of-state stu­dents, $1,320 for Florida resi­dents. 


• '· I" 




Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, September 10, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ...............•....... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............•.. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor .........•....... Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..........•.............. Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•••.•Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

"PARIXJN Mf. ....ll-lffi£'~ TI-\b: BACK IXUR. '' 
Propaganda fuels fire of world conflict 
By Marc Conklin 
A recent crisis has awoken an old psychological phenomenon. It seems that in all countries at all times, the need for an enemy exists. And this is apparent especially in times of war. 
A few years ago, television stations aired a very popular study called "Faces of the Enemy," in which a psychologist found and displayed various forms of propaganda used in countries during times of war. It revealed Soviet, Iranian, and Japanese caricatures of Americans, as well as distorted American counter-portraits of these countries. Grotesque im­ages filled the screens-greedy Uncle Sams with guns, blood­thirsty Russian bears engulfing the globe, and Japanese-look­ing rats crawling over and spreading their diseases throughout the world. 
The message was clear: his­torically, countries have always used propaganda to make their supposed enemies appear sub­human, thereby making it "easier" or "more justified" to kill them in a war situation. The moral is also clear: first the question, "how could this have been done?" and then the conclusion, "certainly we are above this now." 

But the disturbing fact is that we in the United States are not above this childish practice. Indications that propaganda is alive and well can be seen even in our most reputable news publications. Soon after the Gulf Crisis began, Newsweek ran a cover which ignored every aspect of journalistic objectivity. On it was a picture 
of Saddam  Hussein-not  a  
photograph,  but  clearly  a  
drawing  made  from  a  

photograph. Behind the intimidating face of Hussein were bright orange and yellow tints which obviously were placed there to evoke the image of flames. There it was. Hussein portrayed as the Devil behind the bold-faced caption "Baghdad's Bully." 
LETTERS 

Ticket sales slight NO students 
Dear Editor: 
Until reading Dave Dieteman's "Devoted Football Fans" article (The Observer, Sept. 4). I was unaware that Saint Mary's students could purchase Notre Dame football tickets at the same time as Notre Dame students, thereby coming in competition for bet­ter seats. 
I therefore found it offensive that a Saint Mary's student complained about the twenty­three dollar season ticket price difference in Dieteman's article, citing that the two schools are 
DOONESBURY 
WuaJM/3 
ABOAR!), 
'30WI&R.. 
/ 

supposed to be equal. Indeed, the two schools are equal, but the fact remains that it is the University of Notre Dame football team. Actually, the ticket distribution process is unfair to Notre Dame students who logically should have the first pick of season tickets. 
The athletic deparment and administration should review the ticket distribution process and its obvious flaw. 
Nina Delorenzo Sept. 4, 1990 

Behavior such as this, espe­cially from a national and, in fact, international publication like Newsweek, is absolutely ir­responsible. But Newsweek is not the only offender. The me~ dia at large, both publications and television. have chosen to adopt a propaganda-type stance on the Middle East situa­tion, rather than to transmit real information. 
This does absolutely nothing to help the situation, and in fact only fuels the fire. Is there really any difference between a foreign country burning the American flag and the U.S. por­traying the leader of another country as Satan? We in the United States proudly, yet hyp­ocritically expound our belief that such actions are barbaric and uncivilized. We like to think that we are above barbarism, and yet we advocate it in sub­tler forms. 
In the end, something deeper in our society than the media is to blame for this. With the pre­sent situation, the media is now more than ever operating on a "give the people what they want" level. Newsweek's cover is a symptom of a disease which tells us that what we really want is an enemy-a man, a country, and finally an entire area of the world to set our­selves up against. 
Since our government has be­come compatible and even friendly with the U.S.S.R., we have now replaced our old ha­tred for them with a new ha­tred for the Middle East. We are merely transferring an emotion from one arbitrary place to another. 
We should be proud that in the United States we have enough control over our media to know the truth about all aspects surrounding a poten­tially violent situation such as this one. But we should be ashamed that we are throwing away the potential to become educated on the Middle East for a barbaric love to hate. 
Marc Conklin is a senior ma­joring in American Studies. 

Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety. of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
LETTERS 

Americans approve use of force 
Dear Editor: 
This is a reply to Kurt Mills' letter which criticized The Observer article comparing the Panama invasion with the Persian Gulf intervention (The Observer, Sept. 3). Mills claimed to be "sickened" by the pro-U.S. tilt of the piece, then regurgitated a passel of liberal shibboleths to prove it. His characterization of President Endara of Panama as a "fat cat aristocrat" is cause for concern, suggesting, as it does, a harboring of unhealthful feelings of class envy. Envy is a bad thing for a human soul, and from a holistic standpoint, it does not bode well for a full recovery. 
The purpose here, however, is 
not to cure (de-program?). but merely to offer some thoughts. First, the letter asserts that our nation's main interest in the 
·Gulf is "control of oil which does not belong to the U.S., but which it claims as its own .... " In Mills' mind, intervention aimed at securing our right to buy Arab oil is transmogrified into stealing it. This would suggest that Mills' real beef is with free trade -the "evil" cornerstone of capitalism. If this is so, his subsequent invocation of starv­ing Ethiopians is ironic, be­cause if there were more free trade in the world, there would be a lot less starvation. Second, in condemning the United States for acting to re­tain hegemony in the Western 
Hemisphere, Mills confuses hubris with simple self-esteem. He calls such action "dangerous" and "outmoded," but these words are more ap­posite to his liberal rhetoric. He advances a diffident, guilt-rid­den approach to the use of force which reminds one of America during the Carter era: a nation so ambivalent about itself that it could not even muster the will to protect its own interests. The verdict on that America was returned by the American people ten years ago this November -in the first Reagan landslide. 
T. J. Jackson 
Off-campus Sept. 4, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO, 51!<. JU5TA 6/RJFR/eND. F3ifT 

wa~,omY, 
'The first and worst of all frauds is 
!3UTJU5T AU/4Y FROM H/3R. 
rve N&VER.l313tN 

I//NNE31<.­
to cheat oneself.' 
I'M 13NGAGW. 813 Pff!7'1 L.05T W/7HCXJT M/3. 
5Ht'5 {30/NG 70 
.\ 
Gamaliel Bailey 



Accent
Monday, September 10, 1990 
page 11 


Africa Week 
September 9-14, 1990 
Monday, September 10 Joseph N. Garba President of the General 
Assembly of the United Nations "New Politics Among Nations" Washington Hall 7:00p.m. 
Tuesday, September 11 African Cultural & Musical 
Evening African Rhythmns & Dances by the Jeke Band of Chicago 
Stephan Center 8:00p.m. 

Wednesday, September 12 Panel Discussion & Reception "Recent Political 
Developments in Southern Africa" Engineering Auditorium 7:30p.m. 
Thurday, September 13 Fireside Chat "The Crisis of the Post­
Independence African State" Theodore's 7:00p.m. 
Friday, September 14 African Food, Music, and Dance 
Stephan Center 8:00p.m. Tickets $2.00 
Special Note: An Exhibition of African Art and Clothing will be on display in the Hesburgh Library Lobby from 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. daily throughout Africa Week. 
In addition, documentary videos on Africa, The Africans by Ali Mazrui and Traditional and Modern African Music, will be shown thoughout the week in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center from 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m. 

Kenya, Africa 
McDermoU experiences the poverty and faith of the Kenyan People 
MARK BERRIETTINI accent writer 
As Assistant Rector of Morrissey Hall, Father Tom McDermott talks about his stay in Kenya. "My room here is larger than a room that a fam­ily would live in in Kenya." 
Father McDermott was a parish priest in a low-class housing neighborhood outside of Nairobi, Kenya for the last eight years. He was also Director of Formation for the Holy Cross Fathers, which helps young men become Holy Cross Priests. 
The neighborhood is spon­sored by the World IBank and gives the poor of the area a chance to have a stable home, running water, and a sense of community. The neighborhood, one mile long and ollle-halfmile wide, is home to 75,000 people. 
Father McDermott com­mented, "Kenya has the largest birthrate in the world. In the 1960's after their indepen­dence, they (Nairobi) had 200,000 people. Now they have 2 million." 
The population explosion, along with a relatively new economy is causing many prob­lems for the poor of Kenya. Father McDermott explained that there are not enough jobs to support all of the people. A 
Nobody's Child, charity album, reaches out to homeless 
PAUL PEARSON 
accent writer 

There is one big danger in­volved in putting together bene­fiVcharity albums. They have this nasty habit of taking them­selves too seriously. At best, they get silly. At worst, they sacrifice entertainment value for social conscience. 
Nobody's Child: Romanian Angel Appeal slips into this sad groove occasionally, but only at its lowest points. 
This album was assembled by Barbara Bach, Yoko Ono, Linda McCartney and Olivia Harrison to provide relief for the thou­sands of orphanages in Romania languishing in poverty. filth and AIDS. 
An extremely worthwhile cause? Yes. However, a worth­while cause is not a license to preach to an otherwise willing listener. 
The album opens with the Traveling Wilburys performing the title track, "Nobody's Child." This song, which pushes the Wilburys into the realm of country music, seems to liter­ally speak about the orphan­ages in Romania. "They've long since stopped their crying I cause no one ever hears I and no one's there to notice them I or take away their fears." 
This song, like many others like it on the album is beautiful, but is also depressing. Instead of a we-can-beat-this-ifwe put­our-minds-to-it attitude, it seems to depend on pity to get sympathy and donations. 
An even worse example is provided by ex-Eurythmic Dave Stewart and his Spiritual Cowboys. Their song, "This Week," would fit in very well at a funeral for a stillborn baby. Stewart, with his breathy vocals and vibrato guitar chords, tries to captures the essence of John Lennon, but all he gets is the most depressing song since "I am a Rock." 
In fact, when he sings, "This weak little baby is fading away," one gets the idea that Stewart wouldn't mind doing the same thing himself. 
This is Nobody's Child at its worst. At its best, it contains songs that challenge, surprise and, most importantly, enter­tain. 
The album contains a unique contribution from music his­tory-the Paul Simon and George Harrison version of "Homeward Bound," recorded during a live broadcast of "Saturday Night Live." 
This song, which seems to have more instruments than the two acoustic guitars, is proof positive that anyone who is not familiar with Simon and Garfunkel is musically illiterate. It also provides a pleasant relief from "This Week," which is right before it. 
Elton John, with "Medicine Man," strikes the perfect bal­ance between message and mu­sic. It is one of the few songs on the album that does not hit the listener over the head like a sledgehammer. 
Instead, he slips it under a danceable, piano-dominated track that would make Paula Abdul jealous. He also makes the most profound and timely statement of the entire album when he sings "Man, we need a Santa Claus." 
The album ends with Guns N' Roses' latest single, "Civil War," which, along with "Homeward Bound," is worth the price of the album (even if you choose to buy the CD). Here, we fmd not the sexist party animals who sang "Turn around, b __, I've got a use for you," but fresh and innovative group of hard rockers who sing "Yi[)U can't trust freedom when it's not in your hands I When everyone is fighting for the Promised Land." 
This song presents Guns N' Roses as an important and fresh forc;e whose music does not ask to be heard; it demands to be heard. 
Nobody's Child is an album that tells its message from all different angles, with. mixed re­sults. Some of the songs are not recommended for persons having a bad day, but overall, is worth hearing. 
normal day for a man in Kenya would be looking for one or more day jobs. A daily job is hard to find. 
For a woman, a normal day would be selling a gunny sack of oranges or tomatoes on the streets. 
"A lot of people are looking for enough money just to get by," added Father McDermott. 
"Back at Notre Dame ... [Father McDermott] is amazed at its wealth. 'Everything that used to be a lightbulb is now a chandalier,' he said." 
Father McDermott also men­tioned the fact that when he re­turned to the United States he had a greater appreciation for the feminist movement. In . Kenya, women have no rights and are treated very badly .. 
Another difference is the Kenyans great respect for elders. Being old in Kenya is a sign of wisdom and is an honor. 
The faith and the generosity of the community stick out in Father McDermott's mind. "Their quality of faith, growing sense of community, joy of prayer, and lively liturgies," are what Father McDermott re­members the most. 
Before Father McDermott left Kenya in July, riots for more freedom broke out in his neigh­borhood and elsewhere around the country. The opening of Eastern Europe influenced the Kenyans to want more freedom from their one party system. 
"People feel more and more economically squeezed and are forced to ask political questions they never thought of," he ex­plains. "They want a govern­ment for the common man, and the government is unwilling to give it. Right now the riots have been suppressed and there is a surface normality, but underneath things are boiling." 
Father McDermott returned to Notre Dame in July to see his nieces and nephews and to get in touch with the Holy Cross Fathers in America again. 
Back at Notre Dame he is amazed at its wealth. "Everything that used to be a lightbulb is now a chandelier," he said. 
Now that Father McDermott is back at Notre Dame, he is happy to be here. Although he wants to return to Africa in the future, he also wants to make his contribution to the Notre Dame community. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mcuy's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 12 The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990 

(~_N_O_T_IC_ES~~ TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Balloon for rent. Custom  ~~_~__R_RE_~~ FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615.  MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDEDIII!II Mom, Dad, and bro. have never been to an ND game. 2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET will help keep them from watching it on t.v.  Need 1 Student ticket for Michigan game Call Mike at 4048 I desperately need a Michigan ticket. My roommate is going to Rome and this will be her last football game for a whole year.  need 2 Ml GA's Rick C. x 1750 !!1!!111!1111!11!!!!!!!1!11!!!!!11111!!1!!!1!1!!!!!11! I NEED SOME TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME (2 GA's and 2 ST). IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL PAM AT X4858. Thanks.  Looking for two G.A. tickets for the Purdue v. N.D. game please call Greg at #1594 WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX  
messages. Signs & Banners for your organization. 272-7770! Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books corner of ND ave. and Howard 233-2342  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 NOTRE DAME PHD STUDENT AT  272-8954 Amy Razz Help!!! Looking for Michigan tickets (GAs and Student) Please call John or Regina 258-0809 $$$  $$$$$Call Lisa or Kara at X2761 HELP! This means YOU. I need two GA's for Miami game. Will pay $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or hotel reservations for any game. Amy 1289.  I've got 1 00 reasons why you should sell me 2 MICH. TIX. Call Kevin x3347 Need 2 tickets (any kind) for Michigan game call Ay X1048  1 MIAMI STUD TIC Stephanie @ 4322 Desperately need 1 student ticket for Air Force game!!!! Please call ALICIA at x3465!!!  
' LOST/FOUND I LOST:  TURTLE CREEK E. LOOKS FOR A ROOMATE TO SHARE A 2­BEDA. APT. CALL JAMES 273­1627.  MICH TICKETS NEEDED 2STUD, 1 GA PLEASE CALL TERESA X2975  I need 4 Michigan GA's. Will pay big cash. x4189 Andi I need MICH stud tix. Will pay  Will trade 2 Penn St. GA's + $$$ for 2 or 4 Miami GA's call Jon at x1243  MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS WANTED!I! DENVER ALYM NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX.  
3 LAWN CHAIRS OUTSIDE ACC ON TUESDAY DURING JUNIOR TICKET SALES. PLEASE CALL IF  FOR SALE  SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468  $$$. Call Bill x1583 I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GA  Need Miami Tickets $$$284-4350$$$$$  WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT (303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB.  
YOU FOUND THEM OR KNOW ANYTHING I!!!! II X4090 OR X4049  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO  WANTED:  I NEED 2 PURDUE GA BRIAN X2153  Need 2 tix for AIR FORCE Annemarie x2773  WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2  
SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWOLOST: SOFT BLUE BOOK SATCHEL, DEClO SEPT 3 SEMESTERS $110, ONE CONTAINS BOOKS, PAPERS, NY SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­TIMES, ETC. $10 REWARD. PLEASE CALL 234-9648. 5959. DID YOU FIND A SET OF KEYS BIANCHI12SPEED 19" bike, WHILE WAITING FOR SOPH. lightweight, like new, was FOOTBALL TIX? CALL JASON AT $350, now $260 or best otter. 1397. 258-0752.  1 AIR FORCE G.A. 2 MIAMI G.A.'S CALL MIKE x1581 TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM 513-677-8106. You can save a marriage, sell me  SON OF CORPORATE CEO NEEDS 1-2 STUD TIX-MIAMI OR MICH #4501. BIG DOLLARS! NEED STUDENT TIX ALL HOME GAMES CALL 1597 #####################  FOR SALE 1 Mich Stud Tix Best Offer by Wed Midnight Alicia #4114 I need 2 Student Michigan tickets!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE Call Anne at 288 0597  MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­3982. NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS GA's or STUDS CALL DAN@ X1795 DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDU GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES.  
Found: A set of keys, containing  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S  your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566.  WANTED: MANY PENN STATE AND 2 AIRFORCE STUD TIX -­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL KEVIN X1589  
GM and room keys, behind Flanner Hall9/5. Call1749 to claim.  FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364  I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) CALL MATT X 2984  PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3349 ##################### NEED 2 MICH TIXIII 277-9452  NEED 2 MICH. TIX! G.A'S OR STUD. CALL x3771 or x3791  HELP! I NEED TWO TIX FOR MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ CALL GUY ATX1750  
FOUND: BRACELET IN THE SOUTH END OF NORTH DINING  COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE CALL 273-1364  I NEED MICH. GA's OR STUD TIX Name your terms! 277-0253  NEED 2 MICHIGAN STUDS OR  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  
HALL. IF IT IS YOURS, CALL X1553.  ------------------------------------­FOR SALE: 2 OCTOGAN SOLID  I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$  GAS. CALL DAVE X1045.  H  E  L  Pill  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S CALL 273-1364  
------------------------------------­FOUND: 1 STUD FOOTBALL TIX! PLEASE SEE CLAUDINE IN THE DELl IN LAFORTUNE TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM TICKET.  MAPLE END TABLES WITH STORAGE SPACE-$30 EA. OR $50 FOR BOTH; EXERCYCLE $40; ROLLAWAY BED, $40. CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM.  I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ NEED 1 MICH. Tix  ROYAL ORDER: Hear yel Hear ye! The Queen o' the Irish Requires 4 Miami Tickets For Her Royal Court  NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS PAYING TOP$$$$$ CALL JEFF@277-3998  NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT 284-4350  
AARON x2384 x2352  All Willing to Answer  
LOST: BOX OF BOOKS WITH MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 20$ REWARD FOR RETURN. CALL AIMEE X3720.  DIADORA CALCIO TUAF,$18. MARK 273-9058 TICKETS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX HAVE CASH #2936 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Her Highness' Plea Please Contact Treven X4503 ANY PRICE!! GAs or Studs I NEED MICH STUDENT TIX  I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! Parents will take back tuition if I don't come through!!!!!!!! Call Mike X3506  I am looking to trade 4 Michigan GA's for Miami GA's. I interested, call Hugh at 233-6740.  
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS  
Lost: brown, plastic glasses. Contact Dan Talbot: 234-1048 Lost: One yellow Ryder hand­truck borrowed from N.J. club truck. If you know where it is, call Lee at 277-9365  HELP!!!! Parents' first and last chance to see an ND football game. Desperately need 2 GA's and one student ticket for MICHIGAN. please call AMY (R.) 272-8954 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!!  Mike needs 1 stud. ticket for AF and up to 5 Tix for STANFORD or PURDUE! #3191 , Wonted-Noire Ooma-Mieni footbal fkkel! W"lll ply fop$  CALL DAN 234-8608 NEED MICH GA'S WILL PAY TOP $ CALL PAT 234-8608 THIS IS NO JOKE. DAD NEEDS 2 MIAMI STUD OR GA TIX LIKE HE NEEDS TO BREATHE-CALL MIKE X1750 TO MAKE THAT DOWN PAYMENT ON YOUR NEW CAR.  ~$$$.~$$$$$$$$ \\:~fi!Ni 6 MIAMI TICKETS Student& or Gen~ral Admi&&ion in any section Call Chuck collect (716) 265-0490 8 am-~::JJ pm •nd anytime Sat. & Sun.  U Need 2 Michigan GAs I Need 2 Miami GAs. How about a trade? Call Bryan at 2266 DESPERATE!!!!!!! I MEAN REALLY DESPERATE!!! I need 1 0, that's right 1 0 Miami tix (student or GA's) Every ticket helps. Family coming  
EARN $300 TO $500 PEA WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. WANTED-TIX  Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Air Force. Call Beth at 288-0597  Colll-100-!~-0578 \.. ~· Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Mark x1576.  I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE, PURDUE, AND PENN STATE GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID AT 284-5239 I NEED 3 GA'S TO AIRFORCE,  NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT ANY HOME GAME 232-6715  to see game. Call Bryan at 2266 I have stud. and G.A. tickets to all home games Call X 1244  
MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687 MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!!!!!! 2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket needed. PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 WANTED: HOUSESITTERICOMPANION FOR 15-YR-OLD MALE OCT. 11­14. KNOLL WOOD AREA. CALL 277-8654 AFTER 6 PM. ASK FOR JOHN OR ROSEMARY. EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 3­MONTHOLD. TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5. OUR HOME (BLAIR HILLS). $240 PER  Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­1934, Bill. Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEALTHY uncle 287-3472 Scotty TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket for Air Force 273-9469 -Diane SELLING: 2 GA's for Miami Michigan, and Penn State. Best otter. Call Gary or Tim x1230. Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597.  Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x1610. Need five GA's & STUD. for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Paul x1755. NEED 6 MICH GA'S AND 1 STUD TICKET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS I$ CALL BARB X4419 I need 3 Mich. tix (Stud or GA). Don x1788. I NEED MICHIGAN STUD. TIX CALL MIKE AT X4022 NEED 1 MICH TICKET -PURDY PLSX2172 WANTED: Have TWO MICHIGAN GA's to trade for TWO MIAMI GA's. Will also negotiate. ALSO NEEDED: Five AIR FORCE  PURDUE, AND PENN STATE GAMES. PLEASE CALL BRIGID AT 284-5239 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED AS MANY MICHIGAN GA'S AS I CAN GET. WILL PAY ALOT. WILL TAKE SNGLS,DBLS,TRPLS, ETC. CALL DAN X3419 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD GAME TIX for use by my nubile young sister who's coming to town. Call Alison at 4011 HAVE 2 MICH. GA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL MARK 212-595-0275. WILL TRADE TWO MIAMI GA'S FOR TWO ~.AICHIGAN GA'S OR  DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! Please call Kathy 277-9406 or Mike 273-9471. GREAT DEAL! 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­other offers welcome x2630 NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings HELP III !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882 NEED GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. CALL CHRIS X1 067 MICHIGAN TIX; need GA's or student; call Brian x3300  I need Michigan tickets 2 student 2GA Call Jill 289-8915 NEED: 2 Michigan GAs or 1 stud Top Dollar Paid Big Bucks Name Your Price Wealthy Uncle If any of these ph rases catches your eye, please call Andrew @ 1563 I need 1 MIAMI stud. ticket call Mike at x1701 Wealthy Alumni need Michigan  
MONTH. CALL259-6006. Need used psych books:personality & cognition  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICE II! #3501  GA's and 1 ST. TOM X3697  RIDE NEEDED TO FT. WAYNE AREA WE,EKENDS. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS.  Mich. StudTix needed. You need big cash. Let's talk. Dan x1188. Urgent!  G.A.s. Call Matt x2045 Pat (405)332-3411] $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
#2894  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED TIX TO MICHIGAN & MIAMI. HAVE$$ & USC TIX TO  Please call Danuta 234-5919-evenlngs or  HELP!! DE$PERATELY NEED  
I NEED TIXS. FOR ALL HOME  TRADE. LUKE X1213  John at 1-432-2516  MICH. STUD'S & GA'S. PLEA$E  
,..  Badminton Partner Needed  GAMES.272-6306  CALL MIKE 273-9338  Needed: USC GA's. Will take any  
Call Kathy x3232 ------------------------------------­ NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,  I NEED TICKETS I CAN'T HAVE MY BROTHER  STUDENTS. CALL (708) 530­ I NEED TIXI!I 2 GA'S FOR  amount. Contact Scott: 283-1818.  
HELP I I gave away my grey ND sweatshirt and they are  AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088  WATCH THE GAMES ON TV WILL BUY WHOLE SETS  2153 TODAY BEFORE 4:30.  PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590  Needed: 2 Penn State GA's. Contact Greg at 283-1517.  
discontinued.  If you have a large in  ------------------------------------­ CALL X 1167  PSU TICK (STU) NEEDED-CALL  
good condition and need some cash, I'll buy yours. Jay x2290  NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. CALL X 4045  Need 4 Michigan GA's; will take single tix or pairs; call at 2786  X3635 FOR DETAILS. WANTED  NEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX FOR MICH JOHN x1384  I need one student Michigan ticket. Willing to pay big money. Call Tim: #2281  
PURDUE/STANFORD TIX  
NEED MONEY ?? Downtown Book Co. Needs  NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT  HE L P!!!!!!lll!!!ll!!llll. My cuz from Arizona is coming to the  277-7684  PENN STATE TIX; need 3 GA's and 2 studs; call Money x337 4  NEED MIAMI TICKETS????  
Hard Workers. Flxbl Hours. Many Opportunities. Call Mr.  X2088  Michigan game. Will pay big $$ for any ticket. Call Mary  HELP!! I NEED 2 MICH. TIX 277-7684  MICHIGAN TIX; need 4 GA's;  ME TOO  
Turner 5-7 pm M-F 288-1002  PLEASE HELP ME I!!!!  at x1292.  call MaryAnn 284-5313  4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami  
Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s  Miami Ticket  fans that need humbling.  
- Students, need extra spending money???? MACRI'S DELliS NOW HIRING FULL AND PART  Please sell me your tickets !II!  Need 1 student Penn State ticket for a future Domer. Please call Pat at 273-9367.  Available x1412  $ $ $ NEED 2 stud. tix for MICH. game­ 272-8954  Amy  
TIME COOKS AND EVENING  Call Cathy at 273-9624.  I Need two Michigan GAs!  Dan 289-1015  
BUSSERS. Good employee benefits, flexible schedules, and a  Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade  Need 1 Michigan GA call Pat 289-5542  Maura x 2928  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I have 2 stud tix for all ND home games 271-0999 Best Otter  
great place to work. Apply within: Located in University Center on Grape Road.  Penn State or Air Force. Also will to pay big $. Call Jim at x1723  NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD GA'SI CALL DAN@ X1179  Please! Please! Please! I need one Mich. ticket of any sort! Lisa x3212  YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$  see Class I page 14  

Monday, September 10, 1990 Scoreboard page 13 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pel GB L10 Streak Boston 78 61 .561 z-6-4 Lost 1 Toronto 74 66 .529 4 1/2 z-8-2 Won4 Detroit 67 74 .475 12 z-5-5 Won 1 Milwaukee 6 6 73 .475 12 z-6-4 Lost 1 Baltimore 63 75 .457 14 1/2 z-4-6 Won3 Cleveland 62 78 .443 16 1/2 3-7 Won 1 NewYork 57 82 .410 21 1-9 Lost 4 West Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Oakland 89 50 .640 z-9-1 Won? Chicago 79 59 .572 9 1/2 z-6-4 Lost 3 Texas 73 67 .521 16 112 7-3 Won5 California 69 71 .493 20 1/2 z-4-6 Lost 3 Seattle 69 71 .493 20 1/2 6-4 Won1 Kansas City 66 74 .471 23 112 1-9 Lost 7 Minnesota 65 76 .461 25 6-4 Lost 3 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Pittsburgh 82 58 .586 7-3 Lost 1 New York 78 61 .561 3 1/2 z-4-6 Lost 1 Montreal 73 66 .525 8 1/2 z-6-4 Won 1 Chicago 65 74 .468 16 112 z-4-6 Lost 1 Philadelphia 65 74 .468 16 112 z-5-5 Won 1 St. Louis 64 76 .457 18 4-6 Won 1 West Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Cincinnati 79 60 .568 4-6 Lost 1 Los Angeles 74 66 .529 5 1/2 4-6 Won 1 San Francisco 72 68 .514 7 112 5-5 Won2 San Diego 64 75 .460 15 4-6 Won 1 Houston 63 77 .450 16 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 2 Atlanta 58 82 .414 21 1/2 z-8-2 Lost 1 
z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Saturday's Games Minnesota 6, Cleveland 
RESULTS
Boston 10. Seattle 2 Toronto 3, Chicago 0 Oakland 5, New York 2 

Men's Soccer Baltimore 5, California 4 Duke, 5 Notre Dame 2 (Sat.) Milwaukee 5, Detroit 2 w L T Pet PF PA N.C. State 2. Notre Dame 1 (Sun.) 
Texas 2. Kansas City 1 Buffalo 0 0 1.000 26 10 Sunday's Games Miami 0 0 1.000 27 24 
Women's Soccer No results available.
Seattle 3, Boston 1 lndnplis 0 0 .000 10 26 Oakland 7, New York 3 N England 0 0 .000 24 27 
Women's Volleyball

Baltimore 3, California NY Jets 0 0 .000 20 25 
Notre Dame over Evansville 15-1, 15-8, 15-10 Toronto 6, Chicago 1 Central (Fri.) 
Cleveland 12, Minnesota 9 Cincnnati 0 0 1.000 25 20 Notre Dame over St. Louis 18-16,9-15, 13-15, 15­Detroit 5, Milwaukee 0 Cleveland 1 0 0 1.000 13 3 12, 15-12 (Sat.) Texas 6, Kansas City 5 Houston 0 0 .000 27 47 Notre Dame over W. Michigan 15-10, 2-15, 15-9, 
15-13 (Sat)
Monday's Games Pttsburgh 0 0 .000 3 13 Milwaukee (Knudson 10-8 and Edens 3-2) at Boston (Kiecker 6-7 and G.Harris 12-6) West Chicago (Hibbard 12-8 and King 8-4) at Cleveland (Swindell 10-8 and Nagy 0-3), 2, Kan. City 1 0 0 1.000 24 21 Texas (Chiamparino 0-0) at New York (LaPoint 7-10), 7:30 p.m. LA Raidrs 1 0 0 1.000 14 9 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Detroit (Tanana 6-7) at Baltimore (Harnisch 1 0-10), 7:35 p.m. Denver 0 · 1 0 .000 9 14 Toronto (Wells 10-4) at Kansas City (Wagner 0-0), 8:35 p.m. San Diego 0 0 .000 14 17 Oakland (Welch 23-5) at Seattle (Hanson 13-9), 10:05 p.m. Seattle 0 1 0 .000 0 17 
Monday, Sept. 1 0 

Minnesota (P.Abbott 0-2) at California (J.Abbott 9-12), 10:35 p.m. NATIONAL CONFERENCE Tuesday's Games East No sports scheduled. 
Texas at New York, 7:30 p.m. w L T Pet PF PA Detroit at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Dallas 0 0 1.000 17 14 Milwaukee at Boston, 7:35 p.m. NYGiants 0 0 1.000 27 20 
Tuesday, Sept. 11 

Chicago at Cleveland, 7:35 p.m. Washingtn 1 0 0 1.000 31 0 No sports scheduled
Toronto at Kansas City, 8:35 p.m. Phila 0 1 0 .000 20 27 Oakland at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. Phoenix 0 0 .000 0 31 
Wednesday, Sept. 12 Minnesota at California. 10:35 p.m. Central Chicago 0 0 1.000 17 0 Men's soccer at Loyola, 7 p.m. NATIONAL LEAGUE Green Bay 1 0 0 1.000 36 24 Saturday's Games Tampa Bay 1 0 0 1.000 38 21 
Thursday, Sept. 13 

Chicago 5, St. Louis 4 Detroit 0 0 .000 21 38 No sports schedules.
San Francisco 2, Houston 1, 10 innings Minesota 0 0 .000 21 24 New York 12, Philadelphia 2 West 
Friday, Sept 14 Pittsburgh 6, Montreal 1 Atlanta 1 0 0 1.000 47 27 Cincinnati 8, Los Angeles 4 New Orlns 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Men's soccer vs. ST. LOUIS, 7:30p.m. 
Atlanta 11 . San Diego 5 San Fran 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Women's soccer vs. VALPARAISO, 5 p.m. Women's volleyball at Big Four Tournament
Sunday's Games LA Rams 0 0 .000 24 36 Sunday's Games
Philadelphia 6. New York 2 

Kansas City 24, Minnesota 21
Montreal 9, Pittsburgh 5 

Washington 31, Phoenix 0
San Francisco 5, Houston 1 

Green Bay 36, Los Angeles Rams 24 LEAGUE LEADERSLos Angeles 6, Cincinnati 4 
Chicago 17, Seattle 0
San Diego 5, Atlanta 4, 11 innings 

Tampa Bay 38, Detroit 21
St. Louis 9. Chicago 2 

Los Angeles Raiders 14, Denver 9 NATIONAL LEAGUEMonday's Games 
Atlanta 47, Houston 27 BAITING (370 at bats)-Dykstra,St. Louis (Deleon 7-15) at New York (Viola 17-9), 7:35 p.m. 
Bulfalo 26, Indianapolis 10 Philadelphia, .340; McGee, Stlouis, .335;
Pittsburgh (Z.Smith 10-7) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 8-8), 7:35 p.m. 
Cincinnati 25, New York Jets 20 Magadan, New York, .331: Murray, Los
Montreal (Nabholz 4-0) at Chicago (Harkey 12-6), 8:05 p.m. Miami 27, New England 24 Angeles, .315; Grace, ChicaQo..309.
Los Angeles (Morgan 10-13) at San Diego (Rasmussen 9-13), 10:05 p.m. 
Cleveland 13, Pittsburgh 3
Atlanta (Smaltz 13-9) at San Francisco (Robinson 10-5), 10:05 p.m. RUN8-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 104: Sandberg,
Dallas 17, San Diego 14
Only games scheduled Chicago, 99; Dykstra, Philadelphia. 97; Gant
New York Giants 27, Philadelphia 20
Tuesday's Games Atlanta, 93; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 92.
Monday's Game Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 12:35 p.m. 
San Francisco at New Orleans, 9 p.m. RBI-MaWilliams, San Francisco, 107;Montreal at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. 
Sunday, Sept. 16 JCarter, San Diego, 105: Bonds. Pittsburgh,Houston at Cincinnati. 7:35 p.m. 
Atlanta at Detroit, 1 p.m. 102; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 102; Strawberry,St. Louis at New York, 7:35 p.m. 
Buffalo at Miami, 1 p.m. New York, 92.
Los Angeles at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 

Chicago at Green Bay, 1 p.m. HIT8-Dykstra, Philadelphia, 176; TGwynn,
Atlanta at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m. 

Cincinnati at San Diego, 1 p.m. San Diego, 171: McGee, Stlouis, 168; Larkin, Cleveland at New York Jets, 1 p.m. Cincinnati, 164; Sandberg, Chicago, 163. AMERICAN LEAGUE 
New England at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. DOUBLEs-Jefferies, New York, 37; Dykstra, 
Los Angeles Rams at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. Philadelphia, 35: Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 34;California 000 001 000--1 5 3 Phoenix at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. HJohnson, New York, 34; Wallach, Montreal,Baltimore 021 000 OOx-3 8 0 
McCaskill and Schroeder; Telford, Bautista (7), Price (7). Schilling (8), Olson (9) and New Orleans at Minnesota, 4 p.m. 33. Tettleton. W-Telford, 2-2. L-McCaskill, 11-10. Sv--Oison (30). 
New York Giants at Dallas, 4 p.m. 
TRIPLEs-Duncan, Cincinnati, 11: Coleman,
Los Angeles Raiders at Seattle, 4 p.m. 
Stlouis, 9; LoSmith, Atlanta, 8; Butler, San
Washington at San Francisco, 4 p.m.
Chicago 001 000 000--1 7 4 
Francisco, 7: Dunston, Chicago, 7;Toronto 101 004 OOx~ 9 1 
Houston at Pittst1urgh, 8 p.m. 
MThompson, Stlouis, 7; TGwynn, San Diego,
McDowell, Pall (6), Radinsky (7), Rosenberg (8) and Fisk; Key, Acker (8), Ward (9) and Monaay, Sept. 17 ...
7. 
Myers. W-Key, 10-7. L-McDowell, 12-7. HAs-Toronto, McGriff (33), Myers (5). Kansas City at D·anver, 9 p.m. HOME RUNs-Mitchell, San Francisco, 33; 
Sandberg, Chicago, 33; Bonilla, Pittsburgh,Seattle 020 001 000-3 11 
31; Strawberry, New York, 31: MaWilliams, Young, Swift (8) and Valle; Hesketh, Irvine (6), Murphy (7), Gardner (8), Andersen (9) Montreal 022 001 004-9 15 o 
Boston 000 000 1Q0-1 9 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
San Francisco, 29. 
and Pena, Marzano (8). W-Young, 8-14. L-Hesketh, 0-2. Sv-Swift (5). Pittsburgh 000 121 001-5 11 0 STOLEN BASE8-Coleman, Stlouis, n; De.Martinez, Rojas (1 ), Sampan (5), Ruskin (5), Burke (6), Frey (9) and Fitzgerald; 
Yelding, Houston, 55; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 45; Oakland 030 000 004-7 9 Walk, Palacios (3), Heaton (4), Bair (6), Kipper (7), Power (8), Patterson (9) and 
Nixon, Montreal, 43: Raines, Montreal. 41. New York 000 002 100--3 1 0 LaValliere, Slaugh! (7). W-Bojas, 2-1. L-Walk, 5·5. HAs-Montreal, Galarraga (18), Stewart, Eckersley (9) and Steinbach; Leary, Cadaret (9), Plunk (9) and Geren. W­Fitzgerald (9). Pittsburgh, Bonds (26), King (13). 
PITCHING (11 decisions)-Darwin, Houston, Stewart, 19-10. L-Leary, 8-18. HR-Oakland, McGwire (36). 
11-2, .846, 2.08; Drabek, Pittsburgh, 19-5, .792, 2.63; Tudor, Stlouis, 12-4, .750, 2.43; Cleveland 000 100 731-12 20 4 
Cincinnati 01 0 1 20 000--4 8 2 RMartinez, Los Angeles, 17-6, . 739, 3.22; 
Los Angeles 021 020 lOx~ 9 0 Cook, Philadelphia, 8-3, .727, 3.54; Gooden, 
S.Valdez, Olin (4), Jones (8) and Alomar; Guthrie, Savage (7), Leach (7), Casian (8) and Jackson, Mahler (6) and Reed; Martinez and Dempsey. W-Martinez, 17-6. L-Jackson, New York, 16-6, .727, 3.87. Harper. W-Olin, 3-4. L-Savage, 0-2. 5-4. HAs-Cincinnati, Davis (19). Los Angeles, Brooks (19). 
Minnesota 120 Ott 040--9 13 o STRIKEOUTs-RMartinez, Los Angeles, 199; Cone, New York, 193; Gooden, New York, 
Stlouis 114 189; Fernandez, New York, 156; Deleon, Texas 000 230 001~ 7 Chicago 001 100 000--2 tO 1 Stlouis, 152; Smaltz, Atlanta. 152. 
Kansas City 002 120 000--5 11 1 030 000--9 13 
1 

McGaffigan, Crawlard (5), M.Davis (7), Farr (8) and Boom,, Macrarlane (9); Alexander, B.Smith, Tudor (5), Perez (9) and Pagnozzi; Bielecki, S.Wilson (2), Cottman (5), McMurtry (4), Jeffcoat (7), Arnsberg (9) and Petralli, Kreuter (9). W-Arnsberg, 6-1. L­Lancaster (6), Pica (8) and Girardi. W-Tudor, 12-4. L-Bielecki, 7-10. HAs-St. Louis, SAVEs-Franco, New York, 31; Myers, Farr, 10-7. HAs-Kansas City, Brett (11). Texas, Daugherty (5). Jose (2). Chicago, Salazar (12). Cincinnati, 28; LeSmith, Stlouis, 25; DaS­
mith, Houston, 23; Lefferts, San Diego, 23. 

r 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ­A 77 -year-old grandmother faces jail on contempt charges Monday if she refuses to say where her daughter has taken her two young granddaughters. 
Superior Court Judge Mark 
A. Pfeiffer ruled last year that Mary Pigeon helped her daughter, Elaine Yates, flee Warwick with the children five years ago and conspired to keep them from their father, Russell M. Yates Jr. 
Yates had sued his mother­in-law to find out what she knows. 
Mrs. Pigeon has testified that she does not know the whereabouts of hflr 


granddaughters, Kimberly and Kelly. But Pfeiffer found her in contempt of court and gave her until a hearing Monday to say where the girls are or face prison. 
Mrs. Pigeon could not be reached at her home or sum­mer residence on Sunday. Her lawyer, Daniel Schrock, was not at the office and his home number was not listed. 
Yates said he was optimistic Mrs. Pigeon would break her silence. 
"I've got to keep the faith and be hopeful," he said Sunday. 
Kimberly was 3 years old and Kelly was 10 months when they disappeared with their mother a few weeks after Mrs. Yates found her husband in bed with another woman. Yates has said he hit his wife and cut her forehead during an argument over the infidelity. 
The couple has not divorced, but Yates has legal custody of the children. 
"I won't divorce her because I won't let it be easy for her to change her name or the chil­dren's," he said. 
In May, Pfeiffer ordered Mrs. Pigeon to work 60 hours at an agency in Newport that searches for missing children, and she ended up serving twice that much. 
.\. 

Monday, September 10. 1990 
Opponents set out to disgrace Bhutto 
Class 

I need your MICH tix continued from page 12 puh-LEEZEI x4272 


w-------------....
I1  WANTED:  I I  
I  DISC .JOCKEY  I  
II  For weekend dances & weddings.  I1  

I Will train, all equipment provided. I I Great money! $8.00-$3!).00/hr.! I I If you're outgoing, clejln-cut, over 211 I and have your own car; 1 1 call Bands Unlimited. 233-5727. 1 
I I
.------~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~----­
BIG $$OR ROUND TRIP 
AIRFARE TO ACAPULCO FOR 
SRING BREAK IN EXCHANGE 
FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. BOB AT 1­
800-875-4525. 
NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA CALL COLLECT 313-663-4830 M-TH AFTER 8:15PM F-SUN ANY TIME 
NEED ALL THE STANDFORD TIX I CAN GET. GA's & stud. CALL DENNIS X2384 
Need 1 AIR FORCE stud ticket Call Chris X2274 
HELP!! Need MICH stud TIX!! HELP!!! call Tanja x1511 
I would like student tickets for all home games, esp. for Penn St.!!!! Call Jeff x1747 
Hi. My name is Colleen and I'm little, so DON'T HURT ME!!! And give me 2 GAs OR 2 stud for Stanford and Purdue. x2632 
----~-------------------------------­
I need a Michigan student tic. You need money. Call me. Jay x2290 A CORPORATE PROBLEM­NEED 8 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. WILL PAY$. 1-262-4990. 

DEATH will come my way if I don't get 2 PURDUE GA's! Help me. Call Steve X2478 
WANTED DESPARATELY: 
4 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICS 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR!! 
CALL JIM AT 277-9358 
WANTED 1 set of season tickets. Will pay for tickets plus $75.00. Call Jon at 237-9533. 
My little bro is coming and I need a Stanford ticket for him. Call Bill @ 1584. 
I need MICH tix Jeff x3320 
WE NEED A WHOLE BUNCH OF STANFORD STUDENT TIX and 3 USC TIXI Call ALYSSA or NANCY x3822 
WANTED: 

ANY GAMES TIX GA'S 
OR STUDS. 
CALL AARON #1581 
HELP!!!! NEED 3 MIAMI and 1 PSU tix for the family. Will pay lop $ for the tix! call4867 and ask for Amy 
Alumni dad coming from Calif. NEED one mich. GA 
1930 

DAVE GLENN DOES DISHES!!! DAVE DOES DISHES! DAVE'S DONE DISHES! DISHES DO DAVE! 
I luv my girl...and She'd luv to see STANFORD! Pleeease sell me your Stan STUD!! Call1603. 
NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TICKET!! Help my friend who attends a third-rate football school. John x1682 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
1 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICKET NEEDED CHRISx1172 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED MICH. TIX! Stu or GA. -Tom 
#3502. 

ME TOO! NEED MICH TIX! STUD & GA --TIM 271-8795 
HELP!! I NEED AIR FORCE TIX! 4 GA & 2 STUD. CALL KATHY X1704. 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TIX OR 
GA'S FOR THE PURDUE AND STANFORD GAMES. CALL CHRIS AT X2773. 
HELP!!!! No, I don't need Miami tickets.....! really, really need Air Force tickets and I'm dead if I don't get 'em! Please call Lynne @ X2687. 
HAPPY 19TH MEG-011 

So, is it 500 or 200 beers you're 
going to drink? Here's some 

birthday advice: always watch out 
for boys bearing pool sticks. 
You're the bestlll! 
Love PAL, Ber, Ter & Ster 
NEED MIAMI TIX. 
WILLING TO PAY A LOT 
CALL SHERI AT X2773 
NEEDTIX 
MICH, MIAMI & ALL others 


CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN 
ESCORT ON CAMPUS... 
EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM 
CALL 283-BLUE 

UPDATE: It looks like Jen is kicking the lace doilies off those Walsh girls in the battle of PRETIIEST DRESSER TOPS. Vote Jen, it's the right thing to do.... 
$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA 
CALL BETH 288-0597 
PETE SMITH, 
ALL OF LBI WISHES YOU A 

HAPPY BIG 20! WE LOVE YOU 
RIGHT UP TO THE SKYI -THE 
FAMILY 

JIM GUERRERA! I know I said Friday, but this should be more of a surprise. Happy birthday from your big sister! 
LOUIE! II Congratulations on making the team. When are we. going to celebrate? I love your body-Erwin M. Fletcher 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) -Her opponents are deter­mined to have Benazir Bhutto remembered as the disgraced leader of Pakistan's most cor­rupt and incompetent govern­ment, not as a martyr for democracy. 
When she was dismissed after 20 months in office, they set out to destroy what some called "the myth" -that only a Bhutto could govern Pakistan. 
In removing the prime minister and her democratically elected government Aug. 6, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan cited a long list of complaints ranging from corruption and ineptitude to abuse of power. 
Bhutto called it "a constitu­tional coup" by the Establish­ment, a reference to the generals who formerly ruled Pakistan and still have enormous influence. 
A caretaker government made up largely of defected allies and bitter critics of Bhutto has hurled charge after charge to an effort to discredit her Pakistan People's Party, which was founded by her father. Some say her enemies are trying to force her out of politics. 
Three former 'cabinet minis­ters have been charged in spe­cial courts set up to handle corruption cases and to dis­qualify candidates from elec­tions called for Oct. 24, three years ahead of schedule. 
The new government has said at least half a dozen more cases will be filed, possibly against Bhutto. 
Many Pakistanis see the tri­bunals as "kangaroo courts" evoking memories of the pro­cess her father, Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, 
LOFTY THOUGHTS: Alicia Biagi makes the world's greatest pizza and Di-Hart Barnes can really shake up the dressing! 
My mom won't visit her only daughter unless I get her ONE MICHIGAN G.A. Please help! 4053 
ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion groups forming. For info call Carol 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & STANFORD CALL 273-1364 
I NEED 1 GA FOR MICHIGAN GAME. CALL CATHY AT 284­
4005 

DESPERATE!!! 
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX 
FOR THE MICH. GAME. CALL HEATHER 271-9260 
Band seeks DRUMMER & GUITARIST. Folk rock, some blues, some reggae, some surprises. Call DAVE at 2238 or CHRIS at 2193. 
T-YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE!!! HAVE A GREAT DAY!!! I LOVE YOU MORE THAN EVER!!! Y.l.P. 
Join The 
FINANCE CLUB!!!!!III!!!IIIII!III!! 
First meeting tonight, Monday. 
It's at 6:30pm in room 223 
Hayes-Healy. 
Come hear about the fun 
events for the year! 
If you cannot attend and you 
want to get involved, call 
Maureen at 1704. 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
FIRST MEETING: 
TUESDAY 7:00 PM 
SIEGFRIED LOUNGE 
COME AND GET INVOLVED! 
sdgf 

Valentines 
underwent 13 years ago after Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq overthrew him. Bhutto was hanged two years later. 
"There are glaring similari­ties with 1977, but there also are differences," Bhutto said in a recent interview at her fortress-like home in Karachi. "The wind of democracy has come across the world. There is a new future ahead, and it will not be easy for them to drag Pakistan backward." 
Opponents have not presented concrete evidence to support their charges, and the family name still carries much of its old magic for many. Wherever she goes, Bhutto draws large crowds that chant "Benazir, Benazir is innocent!" 
Pakistanis have become in­creasingly cynical about the future of their stop-and-start democracy. 
Since its creation as a Moslem homeland 43 years 
ago,  when  the  Indian  
subcontinent  became  
independent  of  Britain,  

Pakistan has endured three wars, three internal in­surgencies and three military dictators. 
Two prime ministers, a president, several high­ranking generals and countless politicians and religious leaders have been assassinated. Thirteen governments have been dismissed and three constitutions written. 
"Many are wondering whether there is something sick, something terminal festering deep down in the political soul of Pakistan," said political analyst Akbar Ahmed. 
To: Katie O'Connell Happy Belated 21st!!! love, ex-Farley Chicks 
To: Kate Monahan 

~for the B-Corn Festivity. A great time was had by all. Love, Newlove 
BRUNETIE: HAD A GREAT TIME 
AT HACIENDA. LETS GO AGAIN. SHOULD WE TAKE MARK AND 
ANGIE?-SID 

There will be an organization­al meeting for the MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB on Mon., Sept.10,at ?p.m. in Rm.124 Hayes­Healy. All are welcome! 
Tree-

Who would have guessed this topsy turvy, nutty-kooky, on again­very off again, fantastic relationship would still be around 365 days later? 
Happy pseudo-anniversary 
Thanks for the memories 
Love 
Your star gazing 
Domer Dude 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 

Dr. Patricia O'Hara *Professor of Law *Former member of the NCAA Infraction Committee *Vice President for Student Affairs will speak on "Violations in College Athletics" Wednesday, Sept. 12 ?p.m. 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 

Monday, September 10, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
Open 
continued from page 20 
be Laver," Sampras said. "A lot of guys forget about that time, especially the ones who are my age. All the Australians were class individuals, and I'd like to be in that category." 
Agassi, clad in neon-green with blond-streaked hair and one shiny earring, carried on the Connors-McEnroe tradition with a cursing-spitting outburst that earned him a $3,000 fine in the second round. 
Sampras's victory in the first 
U.S. Open of the 1990s. thou12:h. may be an indication that the future of the American game may be in the hands of a player who cherishes substance over sass and talent over tantrums. He even wears plain, white out­fits. 
"This is the ultimate in ten­nis," he said. "Whatever I do the rest of my career, I'll al­ways be a U.S. Open cham­pion." 
Sampras played a dream match, acing Agassi 13 times and hitting 12 service winners with serves up to 124 mph. 
Agassi lacked the power and accuracy he showed in beating Boris Becker in the semifinals, but he was simply overwhelmed by Sampras's pinpoint serves, deep groundstrokes and quick thrusts at the net. 
"When you can hit a serve 120 mph on the line, there's not a lot (anyone) can do," Agassi said. 
Sampras had too many skills, volleying brilliantly with his long arms and legs covering the entire net, his racket cutting through the air like a fencer's foil. 
His first Grand Slam victory couldn't have been fashioned more slickly or completed more efficiently, all wrapped up neatly in 1 hour, 42 minutes. 
His graceful, looping ground­strokes kept Agassi pinned be­hind the baseline or scurrying from side to side in desperate dashes. 
The tenor of the match was evident when Sampras opened the second game with an ace. Two points later, the crowd of 20,746 giggled at the speed of Sampras's serve when his first serve, an inch long, sped past Agassi and nearly decapitated a linesman. Sampras loaded up again and smacked a service winner. 
Sampras broke him in the next game when Agassi netted a backhand and floated a fore­hand long on the final two points. Sampras, loosened up now, let go with his lfull force, holding service with three straight aces and drawing loud, respectful applause and whis­tles from the crowd. 
The winner, who walks with his head slightly bowed and seems always to be staring at the ground, clearly was assert­ing himself. and the crowd knew it was watching the com­ing of age of a major young talent. 
When the umpire changed a fault call against Agassi mid­way through the second set, giving him another first serve, a fan called out, "You need all the help you can get.. Agassi." Hardly anyone could disagree. 
Sampras, who beat Ivan Lendl and McEnroe in the quar­ters and semis, has learned not to let opponents back in the 
match.  Agassi  never  had  a  
chance.  
Sampras  gave  up  a  stingy  
three  points  on  serve  in the  

first set, and five points on serve in the second set. ''I'm serving so well, it puts a seed in the other guy's mind: 
MiriamS~oll 

Play one bad game and the set could be over," Sampras said. "Today was the best I could possibly play, and it couldn't be at a better time. I controlled the match and dictated the play. I don't know if anybody could have beat me." 
Agassi never broke him, and came close only three times in the third set when he had break-points in each of Sampras's first two services. 
Each time, though, Sampras responded by calmly coming back to hold, winning the first game of the set with two ser­vice winners and the third game with a lunging backhand volley on a forehand pass attempt by Agassi. 
That was the extent of the tension in the match, the only moments when fans who came to cheer Agassi had a chance to shout. At the end of that game, a fan yelled, "Wake up, Agassi," but clearly it was too late. 
Sampras broke him at love to take a 4-2 lead, closing out the set and, for all it meant, the match with a blazing backhand down the line while Agassi stared at it with a look of ex­asperation. 

B.A. History, Dartmouth College 

M.B.A. Stanford Graduate School of Business 
"I became aMacintosh convert in business school. "At our computer lab I'd always find lines ofpeople 
waiting to use the Macintosh computers, while othercom­puters just sat there. SoIhad achoice: wait for aMacintosh or come back at 6AM. to grab one before they'd all be taked. "After business school, Itook ajob at alarge bank and used my Macintosh for producing everything from spreadsheets to acompany newsletter. "Today Iuse Macintosh to help me run mv own management consulting firm.When Igive apres­entation, Ican see in people's faces that they're really impressed. And that makes me feel great. "Sometimes Itake Friday off, put my Macimosh and skis in the car and
' 
head for the mountains. I ski days and work nights. It's perfect. "You know, I can't say where I'll be in five, ten, or fifteen vears but I 
' ' 
can say that my Macintosh will be there with me:' 

Office ?f University Computing Computmg Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 ­
Why do people love Macintosh®? Ask them. 

C· 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of 
5:00 

NFL 
1 
1 
continued from page 20 
For the next 16 weeks -20 if you count post-season action ­people will sit in front of televisions for hours on Sunday and then again Monday night. They can watch the NFL on TNT or ESPN on Sunday nights or even catch games while eating Thanksgiving dinner. 
The Monday night phenomenon is the most interesting. How can people watch these games for hours on Sunday and then devote an entire weeknight to the same boredom? The worst thing to happen to Monday Night Football was when Howard Cosellleft. At least Cosell added some life to what usually amounted to boring, one-sided games. 
The fans of teams like Atlanta and the New York Jets provide interesting case studies. What would possess someone to buy one ticket -let alone season tickets -to watch these teams play? It's almost like a torture for some sin committed in a previous life. 
But the biggest waste comes in that teams actually think they can beat Montana and the 
of the past two Super Bowls. 
There is a team that could probably give the 49ers a game in this season's Super Bowl. But most of the 196 7 Green Bay Packers are ready for retirement homes. 
Emphast'Bin 
Liberal Arts 
International Bllli.nals 
C0111'111!8 available inSpanish 
aM in Bnglish 
FluencyinSpanish not required 
... 

AD COUI'St'S approved by UW-Piatteville am validated on an official UW-Piatteville transcript 
$3625 per -esttrfor Wilcouill6: 
~nlldeall. 
$3875 per -esterfor non-residenla. 
Coela include 
Tuition and Fees 
Room am Board in Spanish homes 
·IWdtripe 
AD financial aids apply 
For further informationcontact 
Study Abroad Propma 
308 Warner HaU 
Unlnmly of WIIICOIIsin·PiatteviUe 
1Unlnmty l'llza 
Platteville, WI 53818-3099 
(611) 342·17Z6 
-
-----~·------­
page 16 The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990 
Cubs, Bielecki pounded by Cards 
CHICAGO (AP)-John Tudor, pitching in relief for the second time this season, won his first game in more than a month with four scoreless innings and Felix Jose and Ray Lankford each drove in a pair of runs as the St. Louis Cardinals routed the Chicago Cubs 9-2 Sunday night. 
St. Louis had 13 hits and seven Cardinals drove in runs. Jose, acquired from Oakland on Aug. 30, had two hits, including a home run, and Lankford went 4-for-5 -a double and three singles. 
It was the first Sunday night game in the 76-year history of Wrigley Field, which has only had lights since 1988. 
Tudor (12-4), who had been suffering from a sore left shoulder, made his second relief appearance since coming the disabled list a week ago. He gave up three hits and won his first game since Aug. 5. Starter Bryn Smith, who spent the last month on the DL with a sore right shoulder, gave up two runs and six hits in four innings in his first appearance since July 27. Mike Perez pitched the ninth. 

Loser Mike Bielecki (7-10), winless in his last 10 starts at home, lasted 1 2-3 innings, yielding three runs on four hits and two walks. 
St. Louis chased Bielecki with a three-run second inning. Jose led off with a towering home run, his second in nine games with the Cardinals. Todd Zeile walked. Tim Jones tripled and scored on Smith's suicide squeeze. 
The Cubs got a run in the third on Mark Grace's RBI sin­gle. St. Louis made it 4-1 against Steve Wilson in the fourth when Jose walked, stole second and scored on Tom Pagnozzi's double. 

In the Cubs' fourth, Luis Salazar hit his 12th home run to make it 4-2. But the Cardinals added a run off Kevin Coffman in the fifth on an RBI single by Jose and broke it open with four in the sixth. Lankford had a two-run single and Vince Coleman and Pedro Guerrero had RBI hits in the inning. 
•

Sindelar WinS Hardee's Golf Classic 
COAL VALLEY, Ill. (AP) ­Joey Sindelar was stunned to win the Hardee's Golf Classic. And he thinks everyone else should have been, too. 
"I honestly can't believe I'm sitting here. I'm kind of in shock," said Sindelar, who beat Willie Wood on the first playoff hole Sunday to capture the $180,000 first prize. 
"If you watched my play, you're probably scratching your head, wondering how I got here. It wasn't pretty golf," said Sindelar, who came from three shots behind to tie Wood at the end of regulation. "I haven't found my driver and lots of time I was in the rough." 
On the first extra hole, 


Shelton 
continued from page 20 
game four. It was 13-9 when two more blasts by Cragin closed the gap to 13-11. White dumped one down to make it 13-12 and a few moments later a Cragin blast down the line gave the Irish a 14-13 lead and brought the crowd to its feet. Fiebelkorn ended it with an­other block. 
"We're looking for consis­tency,"said Lambert."We're not there yet. We're playing a new defense, a man-up defense with only two on the sides. It's diffi­cult to learn at first. With this team we can do it. It's going to Sindelar parred the 16th, while Wood had a bogey. 

"I hit the only good drive I had today on the playoff hole," said Sindelar, whose winner's check was more than he earned all last year, when he made $77,957 on the PGA Tour. It was Sindelar's sixth PGA vic­tory. 
Wood earned $108,000. 

Jim Gallagher Jr. had a 68 that put him at 11-under 269 with Australian Ian Baker­Finch, Jay Delsing, Dave Barr and Bill Britton. Baker-Finch closed with a 64, Britton a 65, Delsing a 68 and Barr a 67. 
"When you can get in a situa­tion to win, you want to win it because you don't get that many chances," said Wood, 
, 

who was in his first playoff. 
After both golfers hit their second shots into the rough be­hind the green, some 25 feet from the hole, Sindelar chipped within a foot of the cup, while Wood's shot flew six feet past. 
"I thought I was dead. You don't go head-to-head chipping with Willie Wood. He's one of the best out here," Sindelar said. ''I'm not a good chipper." 
Wood said the club hit part of a sprinkler head on the crucial shot. He missed his attempt for par before Sindelar holed the short putt for the victory. 
"It's a nice way to win. You sneak in the backdoor, so there's no pressure on you be­ing ahead." 
Irish lose a pair on road trip 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team's first two chances to knock off a Top 20 team this season were fruitless as the Irish fell to 10th-ranked Duke Friday night and 17th-ranked North Carolina State yesterday in the Metropolitan Life Classic in Durham, N.C. 
The Blue Devils downed NO by the score of 5-2, while out­shooting the Irish by 14 shots, 21-7. Notre Dame goals were scored by Kenyon Meyer, on an assist from Kevin Pendergast at the 26:31 mark of the game, and by Pendergast, with an as­sist by Tom Connaghan at with 
40:14 gone in the game. 

It was too little too late for the Irish when the faced the Wolfpack of N.C. State, as the 'Pack won 2-1. Kenyon Meyers and Kevin Pendergast hooked up for another score for NO, with Meyers tallying the only goal for the Irish after 79:14 had passed in the game. The Wolfpack also outshot the Irish, 26-11. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Insanity will have its first official meeting this year in the Montgomery Theater of LaFortune at 9 p.m. tonight. Plans for football season and fall sports will be discussed. All are welcome. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. and Thurs. at 8:30 p.m., Room 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. All are welcome. 
Women's Off-Campus football will have practice today at 5 p.m. at Clay High School. 


take more than two or three days." 

BURNS PARTY SHOP 
FUNDRAISING RENTAL EQUIPMENT 
We have a large assortment of equipment to suit every fundraising need: 
• 
Cotton Candy Machines 


• Snow Cone Machines 
• 
Hot Doggers 


• Barbeque Grills 
• 
Popcorn Machines •Roasters 

• 
Griddles • Assorted/Logo Balloons 

• 
Pop Coolers •Dunk Tank

-
• Deep Fryers • Souvenir (T-shirts, etc) 
*Choice of FREE DELIVERY or 10% discount 
Burns Party Shop 832 W. Mishawaka Ave. (Corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
259-4807 259-2833 
-
~----------------~·~ 
Monday, September 10, 1990 The Observer page 17 



Dallas, Atlanta winners as NFL season opens 
Cowboys 17, Chargers 
1 4 

When you are as bad as thf 
Cowboys have been recently, 
you'll take any kind of gift. The 
Chargers delivered a whopper 
and Dallas converted for its 
first home victory under Jimmy 
Johnson. 
Troy Aikman sneaked in from 
one yard with 1:58 to play after 
Dallas stopped a fake punt on 
the Cowboys' 47-yard line. 
Aikman took the Cowboys 53 
yards after San Diego tried the 
fake punt on fourth-and-6 with 
5:15 to play. Linebacker Gary Plummer was stopped by Bill Bates and Daniel Stubbs after a 2-yard gain. 
Falcons 47, Oilers 27 
At Atlanta, Glanville's new team looked a lot like the old, getting six personal-foul penalties and 16 overall for 139 yards. But the Falcons also forced six turnovers, scored three touchdowns in 1 minute, 50 seconds of the the first quarter, had three defensive scores -including an 82-yard interception return with 13 seconds left by Deion Sanders -and showed the kind of ag­gressiveness Glanville culti­vates. 
"Yeah, it sure did look famil­iar," said Robert Lyles, the Houston linebacker who plays that same style. "They were flying to ball, diving over thP. pile, talking trash on special teams.' 
Packers 36, Rams 24 
Who needs Majik? At Green Bay, the Packers didn't as Anthony Dilweg, given the chance to play by Don Majkowski's 45-day holdout, passed for three touchdowns in his first NFL start. He hit tight end Ed West for two touch­downs and Jeff Query for one. Dilweg completed 20 of 32 passes for 248 yards in outdu­eling Jim Everett (24-for-40 for 
Can you belieue the Red SoH are winning the AL East? Can you belieuethis red head turns 20 today? Wonders neuer cease! uu nPlW wBalrliiJ oiJ (ill :!J 
~UJJJ)d 
Loue -H 

340 yards but with two inter­
ceptions.) 

Chris Jacke tied a Packers record with a 53-yard field goal in the third period. 
Buccaneers 38, Lions 
21 

Testaverde threw three 
touchdown passes and the 
Tampa Bay defense sacked 
Rodney Peete five times. 
Testaverde completed 16 of 21 
passes for 237 yards. 
"He played like an All­
American, an All-Pro, what­
ever," Lions coach Wayne 
Fontes said. "It's his fourth 
year. It's his time to play well, 
and he played well." 
Giants 27, Eagles 20 
The Giants ended a four­game slide against the Eagles as Dave Meggett scored on a 68-yard punt return and Phil Simms threw for two touch­downs. 
The defense harassed Randall Cunningham all game, picking off three passes and sacking him four times. 
Redskins 31, Cardinals 
0 

The shutout was Washington's second straight -it beat Seattle 29-0 to con­clude the 1989 season. 
"You always want to do well in front of your teacher," Redskins tackle Jim Lachey said of Bugel. "We wanted to put on a clinic." 
The defense did, with three interceptions of Timm Rosenbach that set up touch­downs and one returned by Alvin Walton for a 57-yard score. 
Bears 17, Seahawks 0 
At Chicago, the Bears sacked Dave Krieg twice on the Seahawks' first series, then turned intercepted passes into two first-half scores. 
Neal Anderson got two 
ERSITY OF NOTRE D.·\~IL FOIH:H;~ STI'IlY I'I!IH;ii·\MS 
MEXICO CITY 
SPRING 1991 OR 1991-92 ACADEMIC YE \I! 
DISCUSSION AND SLIDE PRESENTATION 

PROFESSOR MARIA ROSA OLIVERA-WILI.IMIS 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER II. 1990 
4:30 P.M. ROOM 108 O'SHAUGHNESSY 




ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
On Sept. 4th at Activities /Night a brown Gucci Portfolio containing lists of members was taken from the table of the Notre Dame Council on 
touchdowns and rushed for 101 yards, and Jim Harbaugh com­pleted 21 of 29 passes for 203 yards. Both, however, looked at the defense as the reason Chicago won easily. 
"Everyone played well, but the defense pitched a shutout and anytime you do that in the in the National Football League, you're going to win," said Anderson, who scored on runs of 17 and four yards. 
Bengals 25, Jets 20 
Bruce Coslet, who helped build the potent offense in Cincinnati, returned there as coach of the Jets. And his new team was burned by that at­tack. 
After the Jets took a 10-point lead, the Bengals came back for 15 fourth-quarter points in 7 1/2 minutes. Jim Breech kicked two field goals, David Fulcher sacked Ken O'Brien in the end zone and Boomer Esiason had a 3-yard TD pass to James Brooks. 
Raiders 14, Broncos 9 
At Los Angeles, John Elway had a miserable day, hitting only 14 of 31 passes for 157 yards and needing a respite from the heat late in the game. 
Denver was victimized for third-quarter touchdowns by linebacker Jerry Robinson and cornerback Terry McDaniel. Robinson went five yards with an interception of Elway's pass to erase a 6-0 deficit. McDaniel scooped up a fumble by Vance Johnson and returned it 42 
-

International Business Development. If you signed up with us at that time, PLEJl~SE call one of. the following numbers and leave your name, campus (or off-campus) address, and phone number.. 
'Chris  x·1649  
Jim  x1091  
Julie  X "1341  
Amy  X 2653  

A substantial reward is being offered for the return  - 
of this item.  
If you can help us, please call x1 091. All information  
- 
will be kept strictly confidential.  
- 

f page 18 The Observer Monday, September 10, 1990 
~ 

Brigham Young passing attack knocks off Miami 
t 
PROVO, Utah (AP) -College football's team of the '80s is off to a rough start in the '90s. 
Top-ranked Miami, which has won three of the last seven na­tional championships, will have a hard time repeating the feat this year after losing its opener to No. 16 Brigham Young 28­21 Saturday night. 
''I'm very disappointed with the way our team played," Miami coach Dennis Erickson said. "We didn't play like we're capable of playing." 
Unfortunately for the Hurricanes, BYU did. 
Ty Detmer, the nation's lead­ing passer last season, shred­ded the vaunted Miami defense before a national television au­dience and a record crowd of 66,235 at Cougar Stadium. 
The slender junior completed 38 of 54 passes for 406 yards and three touchdowns to win his ballyhooed battle with Miami quarterback Craig Erickson, who completed 28 of 52 throws for 299 yards and no touchdowns. Both quarter­backs had one pass intercepted. 
Detmer's amazing perfor­mance makes him the early fa­vorite for the Heisman Trophy. 
"I don't think this one game will mean I'll win the Heisman," he said. "I was just glad to play well enough for us to win." 
The margin of victory would have been larger if BYU had held onto the ball. The Cougars (2-0) lost four fumbles and one of Detmer's passes was inter­cepted after bouncing off a BYU receiver. 
"If anyone had told me before the game that we would turn the ball over five times and win, I would have given them a saliva test," BYU coach LaVell Edwards said. 
Miami, which lost six starters from last year's top-ranked de­fense, probably wanted to give Detmer a saliva test after the game. The soft-spoken Texan frustrated the Hurricanes all 

KOLDWAVE PERSONAL COOLER! 
• 
Installs in minutes 

• 
Fully portable w/ easy roll casters 

• 
Cools and dehumi­difies. 

• 
6,000 BTU's: Runs on standard 115-V power. 

• 
Great for apts. 

• 
Comes complete w/ exhaust duct adapt. kit. 


*Moves from room to room for cool com­fort anywhere. 
*Provides cooling for impossible areas. 

night with his pinpoint passing  
and uncanny scrambling, which  
led to two of his TD tosses.  
"He's just a slimy little cat,"  
BYU halfback Matt Bellini said.  
"He was really moving around  
the pocket tonight."  
Bellini, who caught a 14-yard  
TD  pass from  Detmer in the  
second  quarter,  wasn't  sur­ 
prised that the Cougars moved  
the ball  so  effectively against  
Miami.  
"Our offense is  as  confident  
as  you'll find in the country,  
and that includes the 49ers,"  
said Bellini, who had 10 catches  
for 111 yards.  
However, few people outside  
the state of Utah thought BYU  
had  a  chance to beat Miami.  
The Hurricanes  were  13 l/2­ 
point favorites and showed lit­ 
tle respect for the Cougars in  
recent interviews.  ~,  
"They laughed and joked at us," said BYU defensive line­ APPOO!o  
men Mark Smith. "Who's laughing now?" Certainly not Miami, held to  Miami's Stephen McGuire is crunched by BYU defenders after a short the Cougars.  gam 1n the Hurricanes 28-21 loss to  
six first downs and 134 yards  lot more than three touchdowns  Ervin  Lee  late  in  the  fourth  remaining.  
total offense in the first half.  against a lightly regarded BYU  quarter. Lee intercepted a pass  BYU also made a crucial stop  
With eight starters back from  defense.  in his own end zone with 6:28  in the third period. Leading 21­ 
an  offense  that averaged  36  The Cougars stopped several  left and knocked away a fourth  20, Miami went for a first down  
points a game last season, the  drives with key defensive plays,  down pass by Erickson on the  on  a  4th-and-1  from its  own  
Hurricanes expected to score a  including  two  by  cornerback  BYU  goal  line  with  1:49  43.  
DAILY EVENTS  
SEPTEMBER 9-14,1990  

EXHIBITION OF AFRICAN ART AND CLOTHING 
HESBURGH LIBRARY LOBBY AND DOOLY ROOM -LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
10:00 am -4:00 pm 
DOCUMENTARY VIDEOS ON AFRICA: "The Africans", by Ali Mazrui 
TRADITIONAL AND MODERN AFRICAN MUSIC 
MONTGOMERY THEATER-LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 12 noon -1:00pm 
JJUJ~IICIDIM1 ~ 
JJIPW IE~JECCWIIWJE CCCIDIDIDII~JEIE 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE -3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
Available positions include: Exec. Coordinator Secretary Chairman Hotels: Hospitality Chairman Dinner Chairman Mass Chairman Hall parties Chairman Brunch Chairman Workshop Chairman Cocktail Chairman Finance Chairman 

Help make JPW 1991 one of the best weekends of your experience!! 
-
-CR Campbell& Sons1Nc. 
3010 Mlohawaka Ave. 
287-1566 



APPLICATIONS DUE SEPTEMBER 17 
w. coot wner. Otffers c~,., 

-
Monday, September 10, 1990 The Observer 
page 19 

CROSSWORD ~ 
CAMPUS

Monday 
1 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Movies "The Africans," and "Traditional and Modern Mrican Music." Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. Spon­sored by Notre Dame Mrican Student Association. 
7 p.m. SAUD/Live Jazz. Four piece jazz ensemble featuring Galen Abdur-Razzaq on flute. Saint Mary's Haggar Parlor. Call Saint Mary's box office for free tickets (Seating is limited). Sponsored by Saint Mary's office of Minority, International and Non-traditional Student Life. 
7 p.m. Opening address and reception for Mrica Week. 
H.E. Major General Joseph Garba, president of the Gen­eral Assembly of the United Nations. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame Mrican Student Association. 
Tuesday 
11 a.m. Lecture: "Richard Wright's Native Son: The So­cial and Prophetic Implications" by Anthony Lemelle, de­partment of sociology, Purdue University. Room 211 Cushing Hall. Sponsored by the Black Studies Program and the office of the dean of the College Arts and Letters. 
12 p.m. Kellogg seminar (brown bag lunch) "Rethinking Catholicism and Politics in Latin America: The Cases of Chile and Peru," Faculty Fellow Michael Fleet, associate professor, Marquette University. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Roast Pork Loin with Apples Baked Fish Parisienne Meatless Baked Ziti Pasta Bean Casserole Turkey Noodle Casserole Tacos Deli 

ACROSS 
1 Shoals; reefs 5 Riviera resort 9 Promise 
13Smell-(be suspicious) 14 Rollers at the beach 15 Baseball family name 16 Beach guards 18 Actor Penn 19 Dormant 20 Mecca on a hot day 22 Place to moor a boat 
24 What beach is to 20 Across: Abbr. 
25 Lincoln's nickname 

2B"For-the Bell Tolls" 30 Having hearing 
organs 35 Etna's output 37 Seine sight 38 Melville's 
"Benito-" 39 Hemingway novel: 1926 42 Alfresco exposure 43 Club for 
swingers 44 Raison d' -­45Amount of 
assessment 46 Picnic intruders 48 Sinking ship's 
call for help 49 Fish or suffix 52 Computer food 54 Being buoyed 
up by the water 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MSGR SALS.MAR 
A E R 0 E R A T OIM A N I G R A B E R N I E B AIN K S ORNE DOALL TEE G E 0 AlGiE W I L L J A R S 
TOR.RA
ISAIMIBAS NONUNIIIONI lA BIOIU T. E EN. B EIRIR AI DECREASE MOWERS NETT OUI 
P A ClE 0 B U T T 
0 N S 
AGE AREAS HAIL L A R R Y P A R K S E S N E ETAPE SMEE REED R EMil T EARS S S R S 
59 Talkative guy 63 Burden 64 Game often 
played on a 
beach &6 Parcel of land 67 Inventor Howe &a"Dies-" 69 Play with a 
Frisbee 70 Boardwalk-to­beach passage 71 Tierney or Tunney 
DOWN 
1 Beach­2 Diva's showpiece 3 Inflatable 
rubber item 4 Spirited horse 5 Seagoing 
U.S.A. force 6 Oscar winner Burl­
7 Goddess of agriculture 

aHomework assignment 27 Chris of tennis 9Cieanse 
29 Peach--, a 
10 Table spread 
dessert 
11 Surf sound 
31 Author Eliav 

12 Kind of buggy 14 Girl-, male 32 Lies lazily on activity on a the beach, e.g. 
beach 33 January, in 17 Rare sight at Juarez Daytona Beach 
34 Portions of 
21 Show contempt 
potions
23 Nut containing 
36 Largest
caffeine 
continent

25 Basilica feature 26-Grande, 38 Small summer Argentine bay houses 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE 

40 Not ignited 41 Kind of 
sculpture 47 Remain 50 Louganis, e.g. 51-Gay 53 -as a house 54 Horizontally 
level 55 Off one's rocker 56 Dinghy gear 57 Summer drinks 58 Brief look &o Like 
skinny-dippers 61 Aida or Ladd 62 Merriment 65 Once around a 
track 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ct each minute). 
GARY LARSON 

1-tE.LP ME. 
'NII\\ \).\\5 
~t'.t.'+JOR'(, C)'(;. ~1\I>.T'S 
1;,+3? 
I DONT 
BVI 11-\\'3 

R£.M£.MB't.R DOES~'\ 'i:.~W 
D\f>-<.;c:>~P..l \\1£. \t:l>.~tR 1-\\G\-\E.R MP..n\. 
IS J\JSI f>... EXPLI>.I~\NG 'N\-\£.1{ 'iO'J DEAL L\TIL£ U~OER \r LIKE. Wln-1 1-\\G\-\ T'tlc. H\\'5. ~\J~R'S, 'iO\J t-l.t'ill 1-\\G\.\E.R 
Mil.~. 

Humor at its lowes1t form. 





• 


IS POSTPONED 
STUDENT UNION BO D 

r----------------------------------------------------------------·· 






Sports
page 20 Monday, September 10, 1990 
Irish women's volley-ball wins the ND Invitational 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
The people who packed the pit of the JACC this weekend to watch the women's volleyball team host the Notre Dame Invitational expected to see re­sults. They got what they wanted. 
The Irish handily defeated Evansville Friday night 15­1,15-8,15-10. Saturday morn­ing's match with Saint Louis was a tough battle, but the Irish prevailed 18-16,9-15,13­15,15-12,15-12. Notre Dame wrapped up the championship in four games (15-10, 2-15,15­9,15-13) Saturday night against Western Michigan. 
"It feels,great to be home and have the crowd behind us," said senior captain and tournament MVP Tracey Shelton. "We really pulled together." 
The Irish got out of the gate quickly in Friday's first game against the Aces of Evansville. An Alicia Turner kill gave the Irish a 1-0 lead and before long it was 5-0 after a dump into the open middle by Amy White and a kill by Jessica Fiebelkorn. The Irish extended it out to 9-0 as White set Shelton for three straight blasts. The Irish con­tinued to get a good pass, set, kill combination while Evansville floundered in a sea of errors. 
Evansville jumped out to a 7­1 lead in game two before the Irish got their wake-up call. 

"We can't give 7-1 leads to good teams and expect to come back," said Lambert. 
After a kill off the net by Colleen Wagner closed the gap to 7-5, Shelton dipped into her arsenal for two more of her 11 kills for the match to tie the score at seven apiece. 
"We feel for one another," said Shelton."Volleyball's a team sport. When one person is on, everyone else senses it." 
Turner put the Irish ahead to stay with another cross-court kill, and seconds later Fiebelkorn scored one of her three solo blocks (five total) to up the lead to 9-7. 
"She [Fiebelkorn] was great," commented Shelton." She has a really good sense of the mid­dle." 
"I was pleased with our blocking," said coach Art Lambert. 
The Irish finished out the game strong to win 15-8, and they carried it over to game three, jumping out S-0. Evansville closed to S-4, though, and would not go away as the Irish still held the slimmest of margins, 7-6, four points later. 
The Irish pulled away with the help of a service ace by Turner and a strong kill by Molly Stark. Fieblekorn helped close things out with two more blocks down the stretch. The Irish helped their defensive ef­fort with 34 digs for the match. 
"Shelton (9 digs) was like a 

NFL can learn from the college-style of football 
The National Football League-the biggest and most popular way to waste a day of the week-began Sunday. 
But the diehards had four weeks of pre-season action, which consisted mostly of immature millionaires de­manding more millions. Most of these players couldn't even spend most of the money they make from salaries 


that exceed those of professionals like doctors or lawyers. Sports Editor The biggest off-field news centered on Eric Dickerson, the disgruntled 
Indianapolis Colt who decided to stay in Los Angeles rather than take a physical with the team. That Dickerson does not seem to care about forfeiting more than $600,000 in salary shows just how overpaid he has been for the past few years. 
The games began on Sunday and that overshadowed the fact that Don Majkowski of the Green Bay Packers just ended a 40-plus day holdout or the fact that Joe Montana of the San Francisco 49ers will make more in one season than most of his fans will make in a lifetime or the fact that an 
... 
old man like Lyle Alzado of the Los Angeles Raiders actually thought he could still play a young man's game. 
Sunday was a day when American families showed they don't mind being ripped off by millionaire owners by spend­ing hundreds of dollars to view these games. You can't blame the owners for the skyrocketing salaries without blaming the fans for supporting them. 
Sunday was also a day when the NFL showed it still must be the only professional sport to rely on a replay machine rather than a human being. Maybe someday owners will re­alize that a robot quarterback could be more effective and probably less expensive than Buffalo's Jim Kelly. 
Pro football is not college football. With college football, there is excitement, pageantry, the sense that every game hinges on a possible national championship. The top-ranked teams will usually meet for the national title. 
The NFL is slowly taking the course of the NBA and the NHL, where any team except those based in Florida or South America can make the playoffs. With 12 teams in this year's NFL playoffs, you get the feeling that each game is not as important, that a loss here or there is not as hard to swal­low. Major League Baseball is the only sport where post­season invitations are still based on wins and losses, on be­
• ing first in one of four divisions. 
see NFL I page 15 

jI' 
. 
. 
vacuum cleaner," said Lambert. 
The Irish again got off to a slow start in the opening game of the championship match, falling behind 6-1 to Western Michigan. The Irish rallied, though behind the strong swings of Fieblekorn and sophomore outside hitter Marilyn Cragin. A Fiebelkorn kill and block closed the gap to 6-4. 
"Fiebelkorn had a good tour­nament here," said Lambert. "We're trying to isolate the middle with quick sets because we don't have a powerful out­side hitter with Slosar out." 
Cragin would beg to differ. She continued to go up and over the Bronco players, com­ing down with tremendous kills; she finished with 18 for the match. 
"I was really pleased with Marilyn,"said Lambert."lt was a big confidence builder for her." 
The Irish came back to win game one 15-10, but faltered in game two, losing 15-2. 
In game three, Notre Dame took a 6-5 lead on a quick-set spike from White (35 assists) to Stark ( 4 kills, 5 blocks). Fieblekorn, who made the All­Tournament team, came up big down the stretch with a kill (one of 13) and two blocks. 
The Irish followed that 15-9 win with a thrilling come-from­

The Observer/John Cluver
behind win for the match in 

Notre Dame's Colleen Wagner slams a spike versus St. Louis as see SHELTON I page 16 teammate Jessica Fiebelkorn watches on. 
Seminoles take over the top spot 

Observer Staff Report 
The Florida State Seminoles took over the top spot vacated by Miami in the National College Sportswriters Football Poll yesterday. 
The Seminoles leapfrogged the Hurricanes, who lost to Brigham Young 28-21 on Saturday, and Notre Dame to claim the number-one ranking. Florida State received 10 1/2 first place votes to Notre Dame's 8 1/2. 
The poll, organized and founded by staff members of The Observer, will appear weekly in college newspapers across the country. More than 30 writers will eventually cast votes in the poll when classes begin at their respective schools. 
Florida State finished just 10 points ahead of the Irish, who will play their first game of the season against Michigan on September 15. Auburn, which received three first-place votes after soundly defeating Fullerton State in its home opener, is third. 



Sampras 
NEW YORK (AP) -He is a throwback to another era, a time when tennis players didn't curse or spit at officials, didn't smash their rackets or break signs. 
He doesn't tour the circuit with an entourage and he doesn't have a fat endorsement contract-not yet, anyway. 
Pete Sampras, loaded with talent but not full of himself, is the first American man to win the U.S. Open without barking at officials or throwing a tantrum in two decades. 
At 19, the youngest men's 

Michigan. which also has yet to play a game this season, moved up one spot to number six in the poll, while the loss to Brigham Young dropped Miami into a tie for fifth with USC. Tennessee, which defeated Mississippi State Saturday to raise its record to 2-0-1, is sev­enth, and Brigham Young moved up ten spots from its number 18 position in last week's poll, to number eight. 
Colorado, which squeaked by Stanford by a score of 21-17 on Thursday, is ninth, and Virginia, coming off its first victory ever over Clemson in 30 tries, rounds out the top 10. 
Nebraska leads off the sec­ond 10, followed by Texas A&M, Clemson, Pittsburgh, which defeated Boston College Saturday to raise its record to 2-0, and Arkansas. Oklahoma, which pummelled UCLA Saturday in the Bruins' home opener, Ohio State, Illinois, Washington and Arizona round out the top 20. 
The National College Sportswriters Football Poll with first place votes and wins and losses in parentheses and 

total points.  
1. Florida State (1 0.5) (1-0)  434.5  
2. Notre Dame (8.5) (0-0)  424.5  
3. Auburn (3) (1-0)  404  
4. Michigan (0-0)  355  
5. Miami (0-1), ·  323  
5. (tie) USC (1-0)  323  
7. Tennessee (2-Q-1)  296  
8. Brigham Young {1) (2-0)  293  
9. Colorado (1-0-1)  280  
10. Virginia (2-0)  276  
11. Nebraska (2-0)  275  
12. Texas A&M (1-Q)  201  
13. Clemson (1-1)  160  
14. Pittsburgh (2-Q)  148  
15. Arkansas (0-Q)  136  
16. Oklahoma (1-Q)  104  
17. Ohio State (1-0)  80  
18. Illinois (0-1)  63  
19. Washington (1-0)  52  
20. Arizona (1-0)  35  

Also Receiving Votes: Alabama 31, Houston 28, Florida 27, Texas 21, Michigan State 17, California 6, Arizona State 6, UCLA 4, Columbia 4, Fresno State 3, Air Force 3, South Carolina 2, Duke 2, Louisiana State 1, Toledo 1, Georgia Tech 1, Southern Mississippi 1. Writers from the following schools participated in the poll: Arizona State, Ball State, Brown, Colorado, Columbia, Florida State, Houston, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana State, Michigan, Nebraska, North Carolina State, Notre Dame, Penn State, Purdue, Southern Methodist, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, West Virginia. 
•


WinS the U.S. Open 
champ in history, Sampras is to conduct himself in such a as different from the man he gentlemanly manner at this beat, Andre Agassi, in a 6-4, 6-most turbulent of Grand Slam 3, 6-2 rout, as he is from the tournaments was Stan Smith, other dominant Americans of another soft-spoken Southern the 1970s and 1980s -five­Californian, who won in 1971. time winner Jimmy Connors Sampras was born that year, and four-time winner John but he learned from tapes and McEnroe. talks with old pros about the 
Sampras's sweet exterior and stylish ways of Smith and ear­laid-back Southern California lier champions like Ken calm mask his killer instincts Rosewall, Rod Laver, and on the court, his ability to ad­Arthur Ashe . 
minister, as Agassi said, "a "If there's someone I'd like to ·good, old-fashioned street emulate in the game, it would mugging." The last American champion see OPEN I page 15 



