. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------~----­

VOL. XXIII NO. 8 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 5, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

AP Photo 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevarnadze waves to photographers upon his arrival at Tokyo's Haneda Airport Tuesday. Shervarnadze began a four day visit to Japan with a call for greater cooperation between the two Pacific powers for world peace and stability. 
South Korean leader asks for tension relief 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -governments work jointly to South Korea asked North locate family members Korean delegates Wednesday to separated by the Korean War. agree to a proposal on easing An estimated 10 million tensions between the two Koreans were separated from · enemies that includes family members during the recogmzmg the others' 1950-53 conflict. sovereignty, free travel and Kang said multi-faceted gradual arms reduction. exchanges and cooperation 
The South's eight-point between the two sides should proposal was based on its include free travel across the conviction that lesser border during major holidays, agreements must precede talks economic and trade on unification of the peninsula, cooperation, reconnection of divided in 1945. North Korea broken railroad, highway, mail believes the two Koreas can and telephone service lines, and only establish trust if they recognizing the others' agree to the major issues of existence. arms cuts and reunification. He suggested the two sides 
The South's proposal came at jointly develop tourist the opening session of the first­resources and create a North­ever premiers talks between South tourist route in the North and South Korea, the beautiful eastern coast called highest level conference the Diamond Mountains, a between the two rivals in 45 haven favored by all Koreans. years. North and South Korea 
"Should the authorities of opened two days of formal both sides persist in prime ministers' talks confrontational and hostile Wednesday at 10 a.m. (9 p.m. attitudes, inter-Korean EDT Tuesday) with the seven­relations will never be member official delegations of improved," said South Korean both sides sitting across from Prime Minister Kang Yoon­one another at a table in main 
hoon. Kang, speaking first at the meeting, also proposed the two see KOREA/ page 7 
Soviets call for meeting to discuss Middle East 
MOSCOW (AP)-The Soviets on the Persian Gulf," he said. 
Tuesday proposed an interna­• Bush on summit/ page 5 "For its part, the Soviet 
tional conference to discuss the Union ... might take a fresh 
Persian Gulf crisis, the Arab-Is­U.N. Security Council embargo look at the issue of Soviet-Is­
raeli dispute and the Lebanese against Iraq after its invasion raeli relations," Shevardnadze 
civil war. of Kuwait on Aug. 2 and has added. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak given lukewarm support to U.S. The Soviet Union and Israel 
Shamir reiterated his opposi­Navy actions to enforce the have not had diplomatic rela­
tion to discussing the Pales­sanctions. tions since the 1967 Middle 
tinian issue at an international This is a departure from the East War, although both coun­
conference, but he welcomed Kremlin's historic stance. In tries have been moving closer in 
the idea of a conference on the the past, it shipped arms to recent months. 
Persian Gulf. militant Arab states, including In Jerusalem, Shamir said in 
A spokesman for President Iraq; was hostile to Israel; and response to the proposal: "On 
Mikhail Gorbachev declined to supported the Palestine Libera­the subject of the Persian Gulf, 
say how hard he will press the tion Organization. yes." 
issue at the summit with Presi­Shevardnadze criticized the 
dent Bush on Sunday. previous arms sales to Iraq, He continued: "We have our 
"The Soviet president intends which ended after the invasion, position about an international 
to discuss ... ways of defusing and said the Soviet Union might conference around the solution 
the Persian Gulf crisis, and he re-examine its relations with of the Israeli-Arab conflict. We 
believes that all efforts, includ­Israel. But he also linked solu­will not participate in such an 
ing those of a mediator, are tion of the Persian Gulf crisis to international conference." 
viewed positively in the Soviet the Palestinian issue, as well as Israel has vehemently op­
Union," presidential to the civil war in Lebanon. posed Soviet ideas to hold an 
spokesman Vitaly Ignatenko Iraqi President Saddam Hus­international conference to re­
told a news conference. sein at one point proposed that solve the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
Foreign Minister Eduard She­a pullout of his troops from 
vardnadze proposed the con­Kuwait be contingent upon an lgnatenko, while declining to ference earlier in the day during Israeli withdrawal from the oc­disclose what proposals Gor­a speech in Vladivostok, in the cupied territories. The United bachev might make at the Soviet Far East. Shevardnadze States rejected the plan. summit, read a statement say­said the summit in Helsinki, "At this point in time, there is ing that: "The president of the Finland, "will mark a major a growing awareness ... that a U.S.S.R. attaches great impor­milestone on the road toward . complex of problems involving tance to the forthcomingresolving the crisis in the the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Helsinki meeting." Persian Gulf." fate of the Palestinians and the 
But he said that "after one tragedy in Lebanon awaits its "Mikhail Gorbachev will use ·more look at the situation, we resolution in the Middle East," this meeting as a continuation 
still have come to the same Shevardnadze said in his of contacts to maintain the 
conclusion" that an interna­speech, which was carried by spirit of'the Malta meeting, and 
tional conference on the Middle the state news agency Tass. the Washington meeting," he 
East is necessary. He stressed "Presumably, Israel's agree­said referring to summits last 
that in the meantime, efforts to ment to its (a conference's) December and June. 
bring about a settlement of the convocation could exert a posi­"It is going to be a working 
Persian Gulf situation under tive influence on the overall sit­meeting to discuss a great host 
U.N. auspices should continue. uation in the Middle East and of international topics and bi­The Soviet Union voted for a on efforts to defuse the crisis in lateral relations," he said. 

Outdoor practice 
The Observer/Kevin Weiss 

Freshman Aurelia Gallagher is shown here brushing up on her volleyball skills in the afternoon sunshine. The sunny weather is expected to continue through the week, giving her more opportunities to play. 

-.. ---------~-------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1990 

INSIDE COLUMN WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept 5.

Attention SMC 
Lines show high temperatures. 

students: We want you! 
I am starting my senior year at Saint Mary's. At the same time I am starting my first school year as Saint Mary's Editor 
Yesterday's High: 81 for the fine paper you 
Yesterday's Low: 62 are presently reading. 
Nation's High: 110 This is my big chance 
(Borrego Springs, CA) to beg all of the stu­
Nation's Low: 35 dents, administrators, 
(Houlton, ME) and faculty on my Saint Mary's Editor 
Forecast: campus to give me HELP. 
Partly sunny and very A great many people believe that all of the 
warm today. High people across the street at that other school 
temperature will be in with the great football team don't really 
the mid-80's and the care about Saint Mary's. In fact, it is that 

COLD WARM STATIONARY low will be in the mid­
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
60's. Tomorrow willattitude that causes Saint Mary's women to 

Pressure 

also be partly cloudynot take full advantage of all that both 
h
® © ~ ~ ~ tzl w 
and warmer wih a highschools have to offer. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
in the upper 80's. corporate both schools. Many of these ac­
There is a plethora of activities that in­
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
tivities encourage, if not depend on, Saint Mary's involvement. The Observer is a great example. 
OF INTEREST
If you turn back to the front page of this paper, you will see that right under our 
Off-Campus Students may pick up their phone There will be an informational meet-
name it clearly states that that you are books in the Student Government Secretary's Office on the ing for anyone who has signed up or is interested in tu·­reading the "independent newspaper serving 2nd Floor of the LaFortune Student Center from 9 am to toring student athletes for the Office of Academic Advis-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
5 pm, today through Friday. ing for Athletics. The meeting will be held in the Mont­In order to effectively serve both schools, gomery Auditorium in LaFortune tonight at 8 pm. 
Saint Mary's women must get involved. Too Juggler is looking for people for editorial many of you enjoy sitting back and com­staff, art editor and more. There will be an organiza­plaining that The Observer does not cover tional meeting tonight at 7 pm in the Juggler Office, lo­ND/SMC Council for the Retarded willenough Saint Mary's stories. It certainly is cated on the .3rd Floor of LaFortune. hold an informational meeting tonight at the Knights ofnot because the staff does not wish to in­Columbus Hall. 
clude us. In fact, that couldn't be farther 
The Student Union Board Music Commission
from the truth. 

needs musicians who need a band to play in. Sign-ups will When I was chosen as Saint Mary's Edi­take place on Sept. 6 from 7 to 8 pm in the Sorin Room of 
All those interested in spending fall break in·
tor, it was made very clear to me that the the LaFortune Student Center. 
Medugorje should come to 443 PW tonight at 8 pm or calljob required someone with an outgoing per­Barb at 3687.
sonality who could get more Saint Mary's 
Senior cookout is tonight at the
involved as editors, writers, photographers, Alumni/Senior Club from 7 to 9 pm. Event is open to all etc. I guess I just have not been outgoing 
seniors. NDE Past Participants, palanca is needed for
enough. 

NDE #14 Sept. 7-9th. Please drop them off at the CampusSo, it's no more mister nice guy. GET IN­Black Cultural Arts Council meets today in Ministry Office in the Library. If you have any questionsVOLVED NOW! Your school needs you. Ask 
118 Nieuwland .Science Hall. All are welcome. contact Sr. Dorothy at 239-7800. 
not what The Observer can do for you, but what you can do can do for The Observer. In all fairness, I must point out that this 
WORLD plea is aimed not only at the students of Saint Mary's, but also to the faculty and 
Authorities on Tuesday uncovered a The youngest s~n o~ Romania's for~er di_cta­administration. Aside from the public rela­
tor, Nicolae Ceausescu, 1s bemg treated for cirrhosis of
clandestine mass grave containing the remains of an tions department, few offices and organiza­
the liver as a court considers his role in dozens of deaths 
estimated 1,700 bodies -mostly poor people but also tions keep us informed of what is going on 
during the December revolution that resulted in the down­
some political foes of Brazil's former military at Saint Mary's. 
fall of his dictator father. Nicu Ceausescu, who faces
dictatorship. The skeletons were packed in blue plasticAll of you department heads who attract 
charges of "complicity in genocide," celebrated his 39th
bags and buried in an unmarked section of the hillside respected lecturers from across the country 
birthday Saturday with relatives coming to his bed at could draw an even better crowd if the pub­
cemetery of Perus, a working-class suburb of Sao Paulo, Fundeni Hospital. Police guarded his door.
the country's largest city. 
lic relations department knew about the event a week or two in advance. Announce­ments made in class often only get the mes­
NATIONAL sage out to students in a particular major. 
Brian Watkins, an annual 
Class clowns around the country are returning to visitor to New York City from Provo, school armed with a new tool for teacher torture: "SpitNot only does the message not get to half Utah, came back once too often. He Wads," a high-tech version of the old-fashioned spitball.
of our campus, but practically no one was waiting in a midtown Manhattan "You can't stand in the way of progress," inventor Ted across the street finds out about all of the station Sunday night when a group of Skup said, tongue in cheek. "It sounds simple, but try de­incredible events sponsored by Saint Mary's. 
youths robbed his father and punched veloping one," said Skup, who created the wads after a It is time that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame his mother. Watkins fought back, and year's worth of sticky, slippery research. For $1.29 youstudents start taking advantage of all that one of the youths stabbed him to get a quarter-ounce of a light blue non-toxic compound,is offered on both campuses. It's time that death. Eight teenagers were arrested enough for several traditional-size spitballs. The material Saint Mary's finally becomes a true member Monday and charged with murder and robbery, police is described as a polymeric improvement on the originalof the community. 
said. Watkins' slaying was the 18th this year in the sub­spitball that won't stain when stuck. way system, versus 20 in all of 1989. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC

-Ih-e-0-bse.-~~er-.
----~ -.L-=Y~ -· 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
A union vying to represent state 

On September 5: 
employees challenged its rivals Tuesday to 35
(219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff 
debates around the state. The American Federation of State, County and Municipal 
e In 1903: In Korea

Production News Ad Design 
Employees issued the proposal to a multi-union Japanese force Russians to give
Wendy Cunningham Carolyn Amann Cara Eckman 
coalition, which also wants to represent the
Kelly Lynch Paul Pearson Mario Siguenzo 
up Mukden. 

Mike Owen Kelly McHugh 
state's 35,000 employees. AFSCME challenged the 
Scoreboard Jean-Philippe Thole 
e In 1915: In SwitzerlandUnited Steelworkers of America, the Teamsters 

Ken Tysiac /la:Md. Maria Blohm 
European Socialists meet in

and the Unity Team, a coalition of the United
Paige A. Smoron VIewpoint Frank McGehee 
Zimmerwald to discuss stance onAuto Workers, the American Federation of

Sports 
NYSE Index 
war.

Julie Shepard Stephanie Snyder 
Teachers and its affiliate, the Indiana State
Chris Cooney 

177.13 • 0.16
Kathy Welsh 
Employees Association, to debate Sept. 19.
Systiems

Christine Anderson 
e In 1934: Hitler predicts
S&P Composite

Mark Sloan 
Clra*llion 


323.09 • 0.53 
Reich will survive for 1 ,000 years. 

Mike Murphy Bill O'Rourke 
Graphics 
Dow Jones Industrials
Matt Novak Michael Muldoon 

e In 1953: Ike announces

2,613.37 • 0.99 a $45 million grant to Iran. 
Precious Metals

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
• Ten years ago: A ten­

throu~ Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
Gold +$1.40 to $383.70/ oz. 
mile tunnel opens in Switzerland,

Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
the world's longest, linking Goschenen and Airolo. 
Silver+ 5.4ft to $4.719/ oz. 


Wednesday, September 5, 1990 
Lecturer: Conflict between Iraq and Kuwait is not new 
By JOHANNA KELLY 
News writer 
The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait is another part of a long and historic struggle in the Middle East, Father Patrick Gaffney said Tuesday. 
Gaffney, an associate profes­sor of anthropology at Notre Dame, spoke at a seminar titled "Iraq and the Gulf: Background of the Crisis," held at Notre Dame's Law School Tuesday. The seminar was the first of a series of lectures concerning the crisis in the Middle East. 
Concentrating on the origin and structure of the Iraqi state and party system, Gaffney ex­plored the beginnings of Iraqi's claim on Kuwait. 
Gaffney described Iraq as having a "checkered back­ground." Iraq declared its in­dependence from Britain in 1932 but did not actually secure its freedom until 1958. After ten years marked by chaos and disorganization, the Ba'th party took power in 1968 and Iraq began to prosper. 
In recent years, Iraq has employed enormous numbers of military personnel, government employees, and secret police­men. Gaffney also noted a dis­tinct line between the rich and poor, the poor being a great majority. 
Gaffney pointed out that im­perialism is still very much alive in Iraq and stated that the na­tion is considered the "top of the iceberg of the Middle East," or a major power. Gaffney stressed, though, that Iraq is characterized by a lack of lin-

See your representative and make these savings on your ring during Ring Week Tuesday -Friday September 4,5,6 & 7th in the Haggar College Ctr. game rm. 
3214 Menauquet Trail Michigan City, IN 46360 
guistic or ethic unity, and has several distinct religious fac­tions. 
Kuwait, on the other hand, was described as a country 
plagued with troubles, yet re­luctant to yield to Iraqi "help". As proof of this, Gaffney said that, after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on September 2, Iraqi leader Sadam Hussein received no backing from the Kuwaiti people. 
Gaffney continued to explain that the conflict between Iraq and Kuwait originated during British control in the Middle East. After the discovery of oil in Kuwait, the British created a port to purposely make Iraqi travel in Kuwait difficult, pre­venting an Iraqi invasion, he said. 
"The British were the first underminders of the Iraqi inva­sion,"said Gaffney. 
According to Gaffney, Kuwait has always had "an illegitimacy in Iraq's eyes." Unknown to many, the majority of Iraq's citizens believe that Kuwait 
· rightfully belongs to Iraq, thus explaining the recent invasion, he said. 
Gaffney tends to doubt any further offensive moves will be made by Iraq. The invasion of Kuwait was not unanticipated by those of the Middle East and, furthermore, according to Gaffney, Hussein lacks popular support. 
"He may have intended to in­vade Saudi Arabia, it is a possi­bility,"said Gaffney. 
Gaffney later added, "The long term prospects are very tricky." 
• j VISA I 
Dennat required ..­

The Observer page 3 
The Observer/Kevin Weiss 

Father Patrick Gaffney, associate professor of anthropology, is shown during his seminar titled, "Iraq and the Gulf Background of the Crisis." The seminar was the first in a series concerning the Middle East crisis. 

Smoking banned in Sorin Hall 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
Due to a referendum passed by the residents last year, smoking in Sorin Hall will now be completely prohibited, ac­cording to Father Steve Newton, rector of Sorin. 
The results of last year's ref­erendum showed "almost 80 percent of the dorm voting in favor of going smoke free," Newton said. 
The referendum was added to last year's Sorin Hall Government election, along with other possibilities such as University dorms going co-ed. 
According to Jim Joyce, pres­ident of Sorin Hall, some of the residents "did not think that it was exactly fair, since the ref­erendum did not state that this policy would go into effect if enough people agreed with it." 
t\o•'­
~\t\6 :t~~ ~e;,S 

c'-' 
NoWay To TakeYour 

;J LSAT. 
j 1 

set your sights on school, there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We11 help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "hew" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help aS needed in our TEST-N-TAPE-Iab, open days, eveninp and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yoursel[ 
And watch the scales tip in your favo1: 
! STANlEY H. KAPlAN 
Take KaplanOrTakeYourCllances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
PHONE 219/272-4135RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
As for the enforcement of the smoking ban in Sorin, Newton stated "there are signs every­where in Sorin such as 'Thank you for not smoking' or the recognized 'no smoking' sign." 
Newton said, "I don't hesitate to say 'I'm sorry, this is a smoke-free hall.'" 
"The first real test of our policy will be on the first home fo.otball weekend when many parents and guests come to Sorin and may want to smoke," . Newton said. 
When asked about his dorm's smoking policy, Father Joseph Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall, stated "the basis of all of our rules is the common good." He added that smoking "has never been an issue" in Morrissey. 
Newton said that he was very pleased with the decision to go smoke-free. 
"Second-hand smoke is easy 



This Is 
to tell and has been linked to cancer. It gets in the curtains and the rugs and stays forever. This (decision) makes my environment cleaner and since the other Holy Cross members and I stay here year round, it is our only home." 
Joyce added that this move was a positive step for the resi­dents of Sorin but that they "do not want to preach to every­one." The issue may be put to a re-vote at the end of this year, according to Joyce. 
According to Evelyn Reinebold, director of Student Residences, the decision whether a dorm will be smoke­free or not is up to the hall it­self. 
Newton stated that incoming freshman did not have a vote in this issue but were informed of the new smoking status in their freshman information packets. 

US. DEPARTMENT OF SfATE US. INFORMATION AGENCY U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 
Career Opportunity 

·1 111-: FOI~EIGN SI· R\'ICE \\ IUTTE~ EX.\:\11'\ \TION 
Saturday, Octoller 27, 1990 

Applicalims must be ft:Ceived by September ll, 1990 
The Wriaen Eumm.ria'l il lhe inilial 11q> 
ia~f«•-••Fo!ap 
Service Ofrlcer. 

AppX:.u fCII' lhe ~... be: 
• Alleut 20 yem aid 01 lhe dale d lhe exarnmdan 
• 
Uliled s.:. cilimw 

• 
AvaiWlle f« worldwide uaipment 


You may obtain funher infOII!IItim IIIII Ill applil:alian from )Qit c.np. ~Office « by calma uea code (1m) 875-7490, Cll' by wrilina: 
The Recruitment Division 
u.s. Ilepulmed d s­
P.O. Bat 9317 Adinatm, Vi!Jinia 22209 

• AN F.Qu.u. Ottomnan F..acftnYDt • 

page 4 
Amendment 
. .

reVISIOn given to HPC 
By FRANK RIVERA 
News Writer 
Student Body Vice-President Fred Tombar presented the Hall Presidents' Council with a proposed amendment revision submitted by President Rob Pasin to the Student Senate. 
According to Tombar, the re­vised amendment will provide for the filling of any sudden va­cancies in the offices of student body president or vice-presi­dent. 
Tombar also announced pre­liminary plans for a Student Body Address to be given by Pasin and Tombar in the Center for Continuing Education at some point during the semester. 
Roy Landry, Upper Crust Pizza Supply representative, announced plans to begin deliv­eries to interested dormitory food sales. Upper Crust, started by two students is a non-University affiliated orga­nization. 
Irish Insanity President Mark Mueller said this year's window spirit posters will be dis­tributed to students on Saturday. 
The HPC discussed several tentative dates for the the Quarter Mile to benefit the United Way. They agreed to hold it in front of the bookstore some time between the ND at Michigan State and ND vs. Miami football games. 
The Best Buddies program also announced a meeting. It will be held Wednesday at 7pm in the Center for Social Concerns. The program is sponsored by the Kennedy Foundation and matches an ND student with a specially-needy child from the Logan Center in South Bend. 
Other events discussed in­cluded an Aerobathon to be held Sep. 12, and the Lyons' Volleyball Tournament to be held Sep. 23. 
In other business, funds ap­plications for special events and hall allocations were dis­tributed for the semester. 
DRIVE STRAIGtn;
INDIANA. 


~-~ ---~----~-· 

The 34th Street wall is known in Gainesville as a place where students often leave messages to one another for all the world to see. Usually the wall contains happy birthday and graduation messages. But this 


Some UF students enroll in gun safety 
GAINESVILLE,Fla (AP)-Most University of Florida students returned to their classes Tues­day after a week of mourning for five slain college students. But some have begun adding an off-campus gun course to their academic load. 
Investigators revisited the scenes of the five killings with a new laser device to search for additional evidence. 
As fearful and apprehensive students returned from the La­bor Day weekend, police warned that the killer may still be in their midst. 
"We do not have a timetable on an arrest, warrants or fruition of this case," said Lt. 
Spencer  Mann,  an Alachua  
County  Sheriff's  Office  
spokesman.  

Larry Humes, a University of Florida spokesman, said although exact figures were not available "our feeling is the majority of the students are back." 
Many are frightened, how­ever. Since the killings, about 60 people have signed up for a gun-safety course offered by Beckwith Indoor Pistol Range. That compares to three or four students a week normally tak­ing the $35 class. 
"It's been crazy," instructor Joe Parker said Tuesday. 
The three-hour course teaches how to shoot in self-de­fense. 
"Safety is heavily stressed," Parker said. "We don't want them hurting themselves or an­Qth_er innocent person." 
AP Photo week, as the University continues to recover from the brutal murder of five students, the wall became a memorial to the five murder victims. 
Firearms are not allowed on the University of Florida cam­pus. 
The university doesn't offer any martial-art self-defense classes but is considering them, said Martha Varnes, a spokeswoman with the Univer­sity of Florida Police Depart­ment. 
The bodies of University of Florida freshmen Sonja Larson, 18, and Christina Powell, 17, were found Aug. 26. The body of Santa Fe Community College student Christa Hoyt was found the next day, while the bodies of Tracey Paules, 23, and Manuel Taboada, 23, were found Aug. 28. 
On Tuesday, investigators re­turned to the three murder sites with a laser device in-
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 
l l :00 AM -4:00 PM 

1530ecio 239-7128 
vented by a Hattiesburg, Miss., dentist, Dr. Michael West. 
Lt. Sadie Darnell, a Gainesville police spokeswoman, said the laser may be able "to pick up infor­mation not apparent to the naked eye." 
Darnell said investigators will take any help offered -even information from psychics and people who have reported dreams. 
Of 20 binders full of initial in­vestigative reports, 11 repre­sent such information and do not require follow-ups, she said. Only four or five note­books contain investigative leads of the highest priority. 

Wednesday, September 5, 1990 The Observer page·S 

Airborne cheerleader The Observer/Kevin Weiss 
Cheerleaders Tyler Moore, left, and Matt Raulston, right, prepare to catch sophomore Jenny Finn during cheerleading practice Tuesday. The squad only has a few more days to get ready for the Michigan home-opener on Saturday, September 15. 

Bush, Gorbachev to discuss Hussein, arms during summit 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Next weekend's U.S.-Soviet summit will give Presidents Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev a chance to prod slow-moving conventional­arms talks as well as forge "an even stronger bond" of opposition to Iraq's Saddam Hussein, administration offi­cials said Tuesday. 
Bush also is considering adding a stop in Europe to brief NATO allies on his way back from Sunday's super­power summit in Helsinki, presidential spokesman Marlin · Fitzwater said. 
Administration officials said planners were focusing on a Monday session in Brussels. 
Originally, Bush planned to return directly to Washington from the capital of Finland. But Fitzwater said the president would like to be able to brief allied leaders on the summit if possible, just as he did after his meeting last December with Gorbachev at Malta. After that earlier summit, Bush stopped briefly in Brussels to brief NATO. 
"There is some discussion about whether we need to make another stop," Fitzwater said. "Pack another pair of under­wear," he added in an asid "­reporters who cover the presi­dent. 
Bush, on his first day back from an often-interrupted three-week vacation in Maine, met with his Cabinet and other top advisers to discuss the up­coming summit. 
"A new foundation for world order is being built and the spadework begins in Helsinki," Fitzwater declared. "It is somewhat ironic that the prospect of war is forging a new blueprint for world peace. Both leaders will want to apply some new brushstrokes to this emerging picture." 
Most public attention has fo­cused on what the two leaders might say on the subject of Iraq's invasion and continuing occupation of Kuwait. But arms talks also were sure to be discussed. 
Although negotiations on troop reductions are moving along well, officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said there still are serious problems in negotiating reduc­tions on cuts in aircraft and ar­tillery. 
Both countries hope to wind up the Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) pact in time for November's planned 35-country 0 "·;~ ""mmit of all European nations plus the United States and Canada. 
"The two presidents will not be negotiating details of this agreement," Fitzwater said. "But they will be attempting to add the impetus that will assure that that agreement is ready to sign and that the summit can be held." 
The two leaders will also likely discuss progress on a treaty to reduce long-range nu­clear weapons. But officials said those talks appear to be moving along smoothly, and less of a push is needed for them than for the conventional arms talks. 
Soviet economic reforms will also be on the agenda, Fitzwa­ter and other officials said. In particular, Bush is expected to bring up a study by the Interna­tional Monetary Fund -com­missioned at last July's eco­nomic summit of industrial democracies in Houston -of Soviet needs, the officials said. 
Bush and Gorbachev will also discuss regional hotspots, in­cluding Cambodia and Afghanistan, officials said. 
Still, officials stressed that the main purpose of the summit was to provide a highly visible show of superpower solidarity in bringing pressure to bear on Saddam to end his month-old occupation of Kuwait. 
NASA on schedule in third space shuttle launch attempt 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) NASA enjoyed a calm, un­eventful countdown Tuesday as the space agency moved closer to its third attempt to send Columbia on an astronomy mission and its first shuttle flight in months. 
Columbia is scheduled to lift off at 1:20 a.m. Thursday with seven astronauts and the $150 million Astro observatory. 
"Everybody's very comfort­able. The firing room is very calm," said test director AI Sofge. "We're just proceeding down through the count, busi­ness as usual, doing what we do best, no problems." 
NASA's first attempt to launch Columbia with Astro ended six hours before the scheduled May 30 liftoff when hydrogen leaked during fueling. The next countdown was halted Thursday after engineers lost contact with one of four tele­scopes inside Columbia's cargo bay. 
The communications problem with the X-ray telescope was corrected Sunday, allowing NASA to begin counting down once again. 
"We've had our share of problems. I figure it's time to have something go right for Astro," said project manager Bill Huddleston. 
The latest delay required a slight juggling of Astro's ob­serving schedule, said Arthur Davidsen, principal investigator of Johns Hopkins University's 
We're going to MEDUGOIUE 
For 
FALL BREAK 


INTERESTED? Come to a meeting on Wednesday (Sept. 5th), at 8:00 in 443 Pasquerilla West or call Barb X 3687 
ultraviolet telescope. 
Astronomers now will be able to observe Jupiter, which was too close to the sun as of last week, Davidsen said. But an important quasar -the brightest one, in fact -has moved too close to the sun and will not be visible to Astro until late fall. 
"We don't want to delay that long," Davidsen said. 
Scientists have been waiting for years for NASA to send up the observatory, which will study ultraviolet light and X­rays emitted from some of the hottest objects in the universe. About 150 objects will be ob­served during the nine-to 10­day flight, including a comet that is making its first recorded pass through the so­lar system. 
Astro had been scheduled for a ride on Columbia in March 1986, but the Challenger disas­ter two months earlier put all missions on hold. 
Astro's three ultraviolet tele­scopes will be operated round­the-clock by the four as­tronomers aboard Columbia. The X-ray telescope will be managed by computer com­mands sent from Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. 
It will be the first scientific mission in five years dedicated entirely to scientific research. Astro will remain in the cargo bay and be returned to Earth 

NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WED., SEPT. 5, 7:30p.m. KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HALL 
(by the Bookstore) COME AND LEARN ABOUT THE FUN YOU CAN HAVE WORKING WITH THE SPECIAL PEOPLE FROM LOGAN CENTER! QUESTIONS: JANET KUNST 284-5090 SALLY GREENE 283-3783 
for  possible  use  on  a  future  
mission.  
Columbia  will  be  the  first  

shuttle to fly since the entire fleet was grounded by hydrogen leaks this summer. 
A month after Columbia's leaks were discovered, Atlantis was found to have a similar problem and its July flight de­layed. NASA has since replaced Columbia's hydrogen lines and rescheduled Atlantis' secret military mission for November. 
"We're looking for a suc­cess," Huddleston said. "We have all expectations that we're going to have a success." 
NASA last launched a shuttle in April. Discovery's crew suc­cessfully placed the Hubble Space Telescope in orbit, but the $1.5 billion telescope later was found to have a defective mirror that produces blurry images. 
NASA is wasting no time get­ting its shuttle program back on track. Discovery was to be moved out to the other shuttle launch pad Tuesday night to await an October flight with the Ulysses satellite. 

page 6 The Observer 


Sand Man AP Photo 
Sgt. Major Kenneth Parker from Augusta, Ga., covers his face with a scarf to protect himself at an air base in Saudi Arabia Monday. Sandstorms are a major concern for U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia. 
Q It brin~ out the best in all of US:' 
United way 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 


South African troops·fire on black protestors; at least 40 dead in township battles 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP)-Troops Shot on Blacks, At Least 40 Dead in Latest Township Battles 
Soldiers fired on thousands of angry blacks Tuesday and rival gangs fought with axes, knives and spears as at least 40 people were killed in township violence. 
The violence came as Presi­dent F.W. de Klerk and African National Congress leader Nel­son Mandela visited black townships near Johannesburg to call for a halt in fighting that has killed more than 550 people since Aug. 12. 
The government has imposed emergency restrictions and sent elite army units to the town­ships, but fighting between Zulu followers of the conserva­tive Inkatha movement and other blacks loyal to the ANC raged for a fourth week. 
In Sebokeng, a pre-dawn clash killed four people at a migrant workers' hostel, police said. The victims were believed to be township residents ab­ducted by hostel dwellers. 
About 5,000 township resi­dents angered by the killings gathered at the hostel, police said. 
When the mob refused to dis­perse, army troops were called in and a "shooting incident oc­curred," said police Col. Frans Malherbe. "The bodies of 11 persons were found after the mob dispersed." 
South African newspaper photographer N. Khumalo told the South African Press Associ­ation that "people came toward (the soldiers) waving their hands, saying 'peace, we are not fighting.' Some of them even sat down." 
The troops "took up position, cocked their guns -I thought maybe they wanted to scare the people," Khumalo was quoted as saying. "All of a sudden there was shooting. Many of the people ran. Some of the people fell." 
The shooting marked the first time soldiers have been involved in a clash that has resulted in a loss of lives since they were de­ployed last month in the town­ships. 
In March, police opened fire on black demonstrators in Se­bokeng, killing at least five and wounding more than 150. A ju­dicial inquiry criticized police for the killings, saying gunfire was unjustified. 
Malherbe said both police and military were investigating Tuesday's shooting. 
A later police report Tuesday put the Sebokeng death toll at 36, with the other killings oc­curring in sporadic clashes near the hostel and adjacent areas. Police said more than 150 people were arrested. 
Black crowds also stoned journalists in Sebokeng and burned one reporter's car. 
A soundman for WTN, a Bri­tish television agency, was ar­rested in Vosloorus after being told to leave the area, WTN bu­reau chief Vincent Francis said. 








Sports Restaurant Lounge 
*Five T.V.s 
*Basketball Shoot 
*Two Dart Boards 
*Pizzas From Scratch 
SNEAKERS 
$1.000FF 
any large pizza (not valid with specials) expires 9/30/90 
*DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night 
*Conveniently LocatedJust Off Campus 
SNEAKERS (in University Lanes) 
ND 


Located in University Lanes-1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL 

Wednesday, September 5, 1990 The Observer 
page 7 

Palestinian uprising 
PLEASE HELP! PLEASE HELP! !!!*' The COFFEEHOUSE returns WANTED I need a michigan stud tix. PRAYER MEETING I NEED TO BUY SOMEONG'S •••Any musicians, poets, Will pay $$$ to see TO's. Thursdays @ 7:30pm 
Class 
FOOTBALL TICKET performers,or others interested in Campus rock band PHOENIX Jimx1583 Siegfried Chapel APPLICATION. IF YOUR NOT getting involved looking for lead singer. Classic ?? call Eileen x4815
continued from page 1 0 
GOING TO BUY FOOTBALL with the 'HOUSE call Colin @ rock--no wimps I Travel to MEDUGORJE for FALL 
TICKETS, SELL YOUR x1609 BREAKI! Come to 443 PW at 
APPLICATION TO ME FOR BIG call Peter x1414 $5 HAIRCUTSIIII 
8:00 Wed or call Barb #3687 NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS BUCKS!!!!! 

REGULAR & ROTC GA's or STUDS CALL KEVIN x1409 or stop 
JUNIORS 

CALL DAN@ X1795 Dear Brunette: The Hacienda on
by 911 FLANNER VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
JUNIORS Everyone wish STEVE HOMAN Grape Road in the shopping 1523 LINCOLNWAY WESTJUNIORS a HAPPY BIRTHDAY today!! I center with Venture and Phar-Mor. 

SOUTH BEND HELP! I NEED TWO TIX FOR Wear your green sweater. I Can't 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & The Class Cruise is Coming! 
MICH. FOR MY PARENTS OR wait--Sid
STANFORD CALL 273-1364 233-4767
September 13, 1990 THEY WILL DISOWN ME. $$$ Tickets will be on sale in the Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air Pellecchia, we sure are proud ofCALLGUYATX1750 class office daily from 3:00­
Force! you!
5:00 beginning Sept. 5. 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME call Julie X1992 Justin and Chris, consider sdgf
CO-DA Meetings: Students Cups, food and LOTS of fun. 
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S yourselves lucky you're not in this-­
interested in helping to start a Tickets are $20. 
ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR 
CALL 273-1364 Twelve Step Co-Dependency --yet. Jellydonuts, (aka Fligg, Pellecchia, 
BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion 
meeting on campus, call Sally at DON'T MISS IT! Well, the party's over---for now-­Ringo, Toddles, Richie-Rich, Slick, NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS !!!Ill but wait until this weekend, we Justin, Cracker, etc.) 
groups forming. For info call Carol 239-7336 for discussion and 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ planning. hear there's a lot of birthday's This weekend was a "ripper". 
PLEASE CALL KRISTIN AT Rich alumnus will pay approaching!! Too bad some of you jellydonuts 284-4350 Forever your servants, don't remember our excursions
BIG$$$$$ Looking for a really good housing for football tix application deal? Male (undergraduate) and/or passed out(Fiigg). 
"Guns?!!II!" and "Subs" 

CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN call #1782 roommate needed to share an (You guys really are rude and Toddles, we're happy to know that WANTED: TICKETS FOR crude) the lysol wasn't necessary but after 
ESCORT ON CAMPUS ... apartmenVhouse. Washer-dryer, 
STANFORD GAME OCT. 6. P.S. HOLY COWl !II!!! Look at that seeing your radiant smile on
EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM air, storage space. $100-$175 a PLEASE CALL COLLECT 8 AM-4 babel!! I! II Sunday, we hope that if it rained, 
CALL 283-BLUE month--includes everything. (Call 
CONGRATULATIONS Tasty you wore a raincoat!
late!) Bill 234-4995 

Terry, Bountiful Beth and Slick, what exactly was the grand Delicious Denise -Your
BEST BUDDIES I Happy Birthday Tanya! Hope it's a total on Fri. nite? You know it's not 
r;;;;~ 
applications were most
BEST BUDDIES ! Do you like camping and kids? Can great one!!! nice to move in on someone else's 
outstanding! Looking forward 
hi ag BEST BUDDIES I you spare one weekend a month? "woman"(especially an 
to a great year -522 Grace. 
Come & see what we are I ND/SMC counselors needed for a upperclassman's) Rich, sorry but I Mandatory meeting: local school's environmental THEY ARE COMING I just HAD to console the broken­NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS Wed., Sept. 5th at 7 PM DRUMMER wanted for rock band camping club--"Earth Crusaders." THE 1990 WINDOW POSTERS hearted victim of slicks attempted PLEASE CALL KARIN AT Center for Social Concerns with ATTITUDE. Call J.P. 271-Need also musicians for evening BROUGHT TO YOU BY "conquest". Ringo was too straight X1992 0742. campfire. Call Bill (late) 234-4995 IRISH INSANITY todoil. 
~~~==~................................................,-------------------------­
I $2.00 1 Korea 
I Free Dry Cleaning Icontinued from page 1 I
I Present this coupon and get $2.00 Iballroom of the headquarters I f d I hotel.
I worth 0 ry cleaning I The premiers smiled and I I shook hands across the table.-•IllFREE DRY CLEANING _..._ I I When photographers yelled for 
I I them to repeat the action, they I I stood for about a minute I clasping hands. 
Open Mon. -Sat. 1 I North Korean Prime Minister I N Qth p h R · d I Yon Hyong Muk, wearing a
3 Locations Convienent to Campus: I 0 er urc ase eqUire . I Communist Party Kim 11 Sung 
207'Dixie Way South Greenwood Shopping Center 5209 Grape Rd. I Not valid with other specials. I badge, waved briefly to R I d Ironwood Dr. &State Rd. 23 272-9462 1 I onlookers and took his seat on 
2 ~:~8~~ 3 _ Expires : 9/29/90 I the north side of the table. The 
272 9461
1~..~~~......-......................-......................~........................~.............~ SooiliKo~~prem~rs~oo
the south s1de. 


•
1n Israel hits 1,OOOth day 
spokesman, who cannot befrom this town just north of been killed by fellow Arabs, identified by name under mili­
Jerusalem. most on suspicion of collabora­tary rules. "Troops are posi­"There are fewer pressures tion with Israel. Forty-seven Is­tioned so there is less frictionon Israel from the United raelis have died. 
with the local population." 
States to start a dialogue with In recent months, according Meanwhile, the Palestinianthe Palestinians." Khatib said. to both Palestinians and Israeli side shows signs of fatigue"There is no more talk about army officials, there has been a from the almost weekly general Israeli violations of human marked slowdown in the upris­strikes ordered by uprisingrights in the occupied territo­ing. 
leaders and forced closures by
ries." Under Defense Minister 
the army. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Moshe Arens, the army since "Our business barely feeds
Shamir on Tuesday dismissed June has reduced its forces in our family." said Zaki Musleh.
reporters' questions about the heavily populated areas and a 60-year-old carpenter with a
anniversary. tightened firing rules. sharply shop on Ramallah's Palestine"It doesn't have any impact reducing Palestinian casualties. 
Street. "No one has any
on the progress of the Jewish In the past three months, 11 money."
people and the Jewish state," Palestinians have died from Is­Shamir said. raeli army gunfire. In the same Palestinians remain resilient 
Since the revolt began in De­period last year, the toll was despite the revolt's failure to cember 1987. a total of 728 77. achieve its main political goal Palestinians have been killed by "It reflects more experience of getting the Israelis out of the 
Israeli soldiers or civilians. In by the army in handling the sit­territories they seized in the addition, 255 Palestinians have uation," said an army 1967 Middle East war. 

~iangle Drafting Supply NoTRE DAME AND sAINT MARv·s sTuDENTsIWt BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS ~ 1021 North Moin Street PLUS . MishOWI:li<O, lndil:lnc 46545 20~ DISCOUNTS WITH STUDENT ID ON MOS 259-2459 ITEMS M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT 9AM-NOON  


Attention: Off campus students Graduate students Faculty 
Purchase THE SHIRT now 2nd Floor LaFortune S.U.B. Secretary's Desk 
RAMALLAH, Occupied West Bank (AP)-When an army truck broke down recently in the middle of this West Bank town, Palestinian teen-agers sprang into action. 
"They trashed it." said an Is­raeli army officer who wit­nessed the scene. "They broke every window, smashed every door and fender." 
The incident was a reminder that the Palestinian revolt against Israeli occupation. though eclipsed by the gulf cri­sis, persists as an angry war of 
stones  and  empty  bottles  
against  well-armed  Israeli  
troops.  

The uprising, known in Arabic as the "intefadeh," marks its 1,000th day Wednesday. The PLO-backed underground lead­ership of the revolt called for the anniversary to be marked with protest marches under the banner "Intefadeh until a Palestinian state." 
That goal remains illusive for the 1. 7 million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, and the character of the struggle is changing amid a more restrained Israeli military policy and the impact of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 
Palestinian support for Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein has disappointed the United States and other Western nations that tried to mediate the Israeli­Palestinian conflict. 
"There's no doubt that Israel 
is reaping political gains from 
the gulf crisis," said Ghassan 
Khatib, a Palestinian professor 

"I Can't Believe It's ·Yogurt" is offering student discount cards good for 10% discount on all purchases. To get your card, stop by the store location listed belavv 
1635 Edison Rd. * South Bend, Indiana 46637 * (219) 271-9540 (2 blocks east of N.D. stadium)
Not with arry other or promotion. At participating stores only. 


J: 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, September 5, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Most pro-aborts don't deny fetus is a life 
Dear Editor: "tens of thousands" of mothers condoms, illegal-despite what what is one of the most giving and the fact that human beings 
I must agree with the main died from abortion each year the pro-aborts may claim. groups of people that I've ever produce human offspring, and point of Rick Acker's recent when it was illegal. Now death, However, the fact that many met. they scoff. Show them a picture editorial, "Abortion there's something I'm strongly right-to-lifers don't want to use And what did the liberal ma­of a eight, twelve or even 20 'moderates' hold morally ques­against. No, I don't like death. contraceptives themselves jority of the Supreme Court week old baby, and they will tionable position" (The And, in the same way, the means that the pro-aborts will have to say in Roe vs. Wade, the keep denying what has become Observer, Aug. 29), that those pro-choicer probably talked continue to try to make this the 1973 decision that legalized bluntly obvious by this point, if who hold a "moderate" opinion about "how poor the woman issue. The truth is that only 120 abortion on demand? They it wasn't obvious enough to be­on abortion are in fact holding was" and "how much better off mothers died from illegal didn't say that the unborn gin with. Mention the fact that a more extreme position than society is since we have abor­abortion in 1966, the last year weren't human beings. No, such 400 to 500 aborted babies are those who claim that abortion tion" or even "what if 'it' was the unborn were protected in a statement i11 too direct, too born alive each year ( The kills an unborn human being, mentally retarded." And when all 50 states (Abortion unscientific. Instead, they Philadelphia Inquirer, August 2, or those who claim that a fetus the pro-lifer claimed that Surveillance, Nov. 1980, U.S. fudged and said that the un­1981) and they call it is not a human being. abortion takes a human life, the Department of Health and born don't possess "meaningful "unfortunate, but unnecessary 
However, I must question pro-choicer didn't agree, but Human Services). And just human life." There it is, mean­to preserve a women's right.. .." Acker's statement that he's probably said something like, think of how many more lives ingful human life. Meaningful Now ask yourself, if you were "never heard any pro-choice "Well, maybe it's a person to we'd save if we legalized hold­to whom? Meaningful to the to try to convince a 19th cen­advocate, no matter how radi­you, but there are others who ing up convenience stores. No Supreme Court? Meaningful to tury pro-slaver (who was cer­cal, argue as the 'moderates' disagree, and shouldn't there one needs to use religion to tell the life's parents? Meaningful to tainly as pro-choice as today's do, that abortion should be le­be room in society for differing them that abortion kills another the one living the life in ques­pro-aborts, after all no one was gal even if the fetus is a per­opinions?..." But the one thing human being -basic science tion? making you own slaves if you son." The statement may be lit­the pro-choicer never actually already does this just fine. If you really 'isten to those didn't want to) that blacks were erally true -with the got around to mentioning was Nevertheless, as long as most who actively promote abortion human, what proof do you exception of Kay Michaelman, the unborn human being that Catholics, Fundamentalists and (as compared to those who think you could show him? the current president of the abortion is being performed Evangelicals come out against simply favor it but don't What evidence would convince NARAL(National Abortion upon. abortion, the pro-aborts will try espouse it), if you actually pin him? Rights Action League), I have How often does a pro-choicer to make religion the issue, them down as to the question of As one pro-life leader put it, never heard another public fig­actually claim that "it's not a despite the fact that most whether or not the unborn are "claiming that the unborn ure make that claim. However, human being?" How often do Protestant and Jewish denomi­human beings, that is what you aren't human beings is the sci­his statement implies much they acknowledge or deny any nations support abortion. The will hear in the vast majority of entific equivalent of claiming more than that. It implies that of the basic biological facts truth is that it is the pro-lifers cases. To them, someone else's that the world is flat." The truth the pro-choicers claim exactly concerning unborn human life? who have opened their homes life does not possess value, is that no matter how much the opposite: that the unborn How often do they sit down and to unwed mothers, set up the therefore it is okay to kill. To they avoid the subject, the pro­aren't human beings. rationally discuss why the un­free day care centers, spon­them, if your life is judged to be aborts already know that every 
But wait a minute. Let's think born are or are not human? sored groups for women with without meaning, then you may abortion kills a human being ­about this. The last time you (Compare this to the crux of post-abortion syndrome, and be "eliminated" if it is they simply want to pass heard someone argue the pro­your average pro-life position.) volunteered at crisis pregnancy convenient. judgment on the value of choice position, what did they It very rarely happens, if at all. centers. Yet, many pro-aborts At the same time, there is no someone else's life. talk about? Maybe they said Instead, pro-abortion forces go right on claiming that "the proof that they would accept, that they're for women's rights. would rather talk about con­pro-lifers only care about life no logical scientific evidence Michael Sheliga What a coincidence, I'm also for traceptives, illegal abortion, before it's born." I guess I can that would get them to actually Graduate Student women's rights. As a matter of religion or "what terrible peo­understand where the rest of admit that the unborn are in­Department ofComputer fact, I have a hard time ple pro-lifers are" than actually their arguments come from, but deed human beings. Tell them Engineering thinking of anyone who is talk about abortion. Perhaps this one is a blatant smear on about brainwaves, a heartbeat Sept. 4, 1990 
against them. And what else? this is because they know that if They probably claimed that they actually stuck to the "one person shouldn't enforce subject of abortion, their side their morals on another per­wouldn't stand a chance. son." Boy, that sure sounds like In all my years in the right-to­something else I agree with. life movement, I've never met And I'll bet they mentioned the one person who has advocated fact that "thousands" or even making contraceptives, such as 
The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues. The first topic is student parking at Notre Dame. What do you like or dislike about the current parking situation? What would you change and how? We're interested in your thoughts! Write them down and send them to P.O. Box Q, The Observer, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. Friday, September 7. 
DOONESBURY 
lf3.Y M05T AcmJVrS, fWW Wll5 LOV!M31..Y Cf?AFT[[)BYANANPEJW "AN f.XQ/JI5rrtl-Y CARVW {}()U., CA!r1Pt51NO, Ht J1JA5 FIRST PW£0 fAIRLY GU'3TtNIN6 IN H15 IN A l{){AL. 50UYCNIR 5HOP IN 1'173 COI.f)f?£[) (1)11J5 Of 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
THE-Rt 1£ LANGUISH[/), UN50W, fOR 17 YtAR5. NOBOIJY, IT 5E&!Y1f.D, WANTED AN ANATOM­ICAl-L-Y £XPL.IUT GAG f)(]LL. 
'You can't measure time in 
days the way you can money in dollars because every day is different.' 
Jorge Luis Borges 

Accent 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 page 9 
Rock artist Phil Keaggy visits Saint Mary's 
Christian musician expresses emotions through varied uses of instrumentation 
ALBERT PISA 
accent writer 
Sometimes concerts can be very complicated -stages can be filled with props and special effects, and the presentation can overshadow the music. Phil Keaggy would like to present something very different from that in his show on September fourteenth at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. "My show is very stripped down and open-ended," Keaggy says. "I like to let the music and the emotion in it fill the room." 
Keaggy has been performing for over twenty-five years. He first started out as a member of the group Glass Harp in the late sixties. He later quit the group, and in August of 1972 released his first Christian-rock album, What A Day. 
Keaggy offers his listeners an interesting blend of music styles, ranging from acoustic guitar playing to classical sounds. He feels the secret to his success for all these years was his concentration on writ­ing original music. "When you do it that way," he explains, "you're not immediately com­pared. They don't say, 'Oops, you're just not cutting it like the original.' I communicate with more confidence when I know it is my music, and people tend to receive it at face value." 
In addition, Keaggy attempts to create a friendly and spon­taneous atmosphere with his voice .and array of guitars. "College students lead very structured lives most of the time, and because· of that they appreciate the change my style has to offer," he reveals. "If I say something humorous, it's because I just thought to say it, not because it was planned." 
If you have never heard of Keaggy, there may be a good reason why. Most of the coun­try does not have Christian mu­sic stations, and the ones that do often share this Ch'ristian format with other types of mu­sic formats as well. 
Keaggy's current album, Find Me in These Fields, has sold fifty-thousand copies almost entirely by word of mouth. "I appreciate the marketplace in which my music has been dis­tributed, and I am grateful to the people who have bought my records and come to my con­certs," he says, "but it's such a small segment of the real world. I'd like to see my music have a wider range of distribu­tion." Keaggy thinks that this could be possible through his distributor Myrrh records and their affiliation with A&M records. 
Keaggy describes his audi­ence as people who enjoy in­strumental, folk, and Beatle­influenced music. "I sing a lot of songs about love, forgiveness, family, and relationship with God," he says. Ultimately, Keaggy would just like to share his music with those around him. He explains, "When I put on a guitar it becomes an out­ward expression of what I feel inside. It's an honest transmis­sion because there have been times when I didn't feel so good about myself or I didn't feel so joyful or positive, and that comes through in my playing. When I feel very up and at peace with myself and the cir­cumstances around me, that comes through too." 
Tickets for the show are $9.50 in advance and can be purchased at the O'Laughlin box office. 

Nitzer Ebb shines in opening for Depeche Mode 
MARC P. JOHNSON 
accent writer 
Summer was the chance to catch all the best bands in the open air. Whatever tastes one may have, there were many concerts worth seeing. Although everyone might not agree, I feel that the Depeche Mode show was one of these. 
This article will not sing the praises of this band, for many in the media have suddenly jumped on the Depeche Mode 

bandwagon and done this for 
me. This article will instead fo­
cus on the lesser known band, 
Nitzer Ebb, who opened for 
Depeche Mode and, in turn, 
provided a show with just as much intensity and power. 
Actually, Nitzer Ebb almost missed this opportunity to open for Depeche Mode. When enter­ing the United States, they were arrested for importation of il­legal narcotics. If the group had not been allowed to enter the country, it was rumored that Erasure would have replaced Nitzer Ebb. 
Fortunately this scenario never occurred, and Nitzer Ebb did indeed play to the hoards who, more than likely, came to see Depeche Mode's newest Top 40 singles. I was also more in­terested in seeing Depeche Mode perform their Violator tour, but what I saw before that part of the concert was all the more pleasurable in its un­expectedness. 
The name of Nitzer Ebb's newest album is Showtime, and it follows exactly in the foot­steps of their release of Belief, two years earlier. The sound is not exactly for everyone, as the expressions of some of Depeche Mode's teeny-hopper fans at­tested. 
The heavily synthesized sound so characteristic of the "industrial" music from which Nitzer Ebb fmds its roots is present throughout. This may seem monotonous upon first listening, but each song con­tains a certain style and distinc­tive sound deserving, as all al­bums, more than just one lis­tening. 
"Fun to Be Had" is one of the best cuts on the record. To be classified as a good industrial noise song, there is no need for an abundance of deep and meaningful lyrics {which this song does not have), nor is there a need for the singer to have an especially strong voice {which he does not). The main requirement is energy, and this is present throughout the entire album of Showtime. 
At this point in time, many with a working knowledge of music may debate the value of music without deep lyrics or harmonious vocals. 
Yes, most of the music is produced by machine, and yes. listening to the album probably was not that different from at­tending the concert, but music is what you make of it, and an opinion based on personal taste cannot necessarily be wrong. It is my opinion that Showtime is a "must hear" album. 
WVFITop
10 Albums 
1. 
Sonic Youth -Goo 

2. 
Breeders -Pod 


3. 
David J -Songs From Another Season 

4. 
Iggy Pop -Brick by Brick 


5. Ultra Vivid Scene-Joy 
1967-1990 
6. Jesus Jones ­
Liquidizer 
7. 24-7 Spyz-Gumbo Millennium 
8. Concrete Blonde ­
Bloodletting 
9. Devo-Smooth Noodle Maps 
10. Gene Loves Jezebel­
Kiss of Life 
------~---~---------~---------------·--------~--­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1990 
Classifieds 
I 
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising Balloon for rent. Custom messages. Signs & Banners for your organization. 272-77701 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
1. 
Large Group Meeting When? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm) Where? 427 Stanford 

2. 
Welcome Picnic 


When? Sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) Main Circle @ 2:30 pm Where? Potawatomi Park Food & Rides 

ALL ARE WELCOME Questions? Call Sean@ x1910 
GRADUATE STUDENTS!! FACULTY II STAFF II Grad-Faculty-Staff Social This Friday, September 7 
5:00 pm to 9:00 pm Alumni-Senior Club 
Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books corner of ND ave. and Howard 
233-2342 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

One month student loans up to 
$250. Inquire at 2nd floor 
of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30
I LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: Watch near Library early Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to ID. 
LOST: BLUE ND FIESTA BOWL HANDBAG AT MICHIANA AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 234-4961. MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU HAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE CALL ME. 
LOST-green Navy seabag. Left behind bookstore 8\26. Contains clothes,etc. Please call Bart X3285. 
LOST-Green Navy seabag. Left behind the bookstore on 8\26. Contains clothes,etc. 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED 
SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK 
APTS. 273-9406. 
SITTER NEEDED TWO AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A WEEK. MUST DRIVE, KNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­8380 
WANTEO-TIX 
MIA-N.D. GAME 
CALL 800-323-7687 
roommate wanted to share 3-bedroom at castle point apt. callli tan: 
239-5692 (work) 
287-2528(home) 

Patties is now hiring part-time 
help.Kitchen,cashier,ice 
cream.Fiexible hours.We can 
adjust our schedule to yours.Call 
255-5525. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!!!!!! 
2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket 
needed. 
PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 
NEED 1 STUD. TICKET FOR 
PURDUE!!! CALL KEN X-1078 
"GABEL T.V: 

• 
SALES REPS WANTED 

• 31MMEDIATE OPENINGS 

• 
GREAT PT. TIME HOURS 


• $400-$600 WEEKLY 
"CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
CALL FOR INTERVIEW 
BETWEEN 1Q-12 NOON. MATT 
FRIENDSHUH 237-0691 
SELL ME YOUR TICKET APPLIC!! DEBBIE 283-2982. 
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN HISTORIC PARK AVE. NEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + 1/2 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO 239-7207 OR 289-3668.
I 
FORRENT 
3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­
1014. 
719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS. ATTACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 RHONDA. 
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure !urn. apt: 755 South Bend Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., references. 616-483-9572. 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 232-3616 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME WALK TO ND 6838889 OR2876389 
FURNISHED APT.LIKE ROOMS, PHONE, AIR, KITCHEN, MICROWAVE. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. EDDY ST. -6 BEDROOMS, 2 FULL BATHS, LIVING ROOM, EAT-IN KITCHEN AND FINISHED ROOM IN BASEMENT. LEASE REQUIRED THROUGH 5/31/91. $720/MO. $600 SECURITY. CONTACT TAMMI AT 232-1242. 
A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS 
f'POs~~';:E 
COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. 
On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak 
Hill condo like new condition, 2 
bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice location in complex. $65,900. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 
REALTY 282-2351. 
Two airline round-trip tickets from Newark to South Bend Oct. 12-14. $215 each. Call leo (201) 922­2184 
TIE-DYES!!! 
(l, XL, 100% preshrunk cotton) 
Hundreds made, all unique, all psychadellic 
Joe 233-4065 (we deliver) 
ZENITH PC--51/4 & 3 112 FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON FX-85 PRINTER. $1,000 OR BEST OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. 
Big Blue Computer Printer. model 5181001. Use with Apple lie and others -4 rolls of thermal paper ST X 80. Like new. Has 1 hour of use time. All cords and connectors, and manual, $40. Phone: 232-7116 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S 
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE 
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­
1364 
COUCH -LIKE NEW -FOR SALE 
CALL 273-1364 
FOR SALE: 2 OCTOGAN SOLID 
MAPLE END TABLES WITH 
STORAGE SPACE-$30 EA. OR 
$50 FOR BOTH; EXERCYCLE 
$40; ROLLAWAY BED, $40. CALL 
("~'"~~ I 
Nt:t:D 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. 
CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­
297-2192. 
HELP!Ill Parents' first and last chance to see an ND football game. Desperately need 2 GA's and on£ student ticket for MICHIGAN. 
please call AMY (R.) 
272-8954 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn State.Call316-775-6143 after 6pm. leave message. 
BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! 
Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and Air Force. 
Call Beth at 288-0597 
Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­1934, Bill. 
Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEALTHY uncle 287-3472 Scotty 
TICKETS NEEDED!!!I 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket 
for Air Force 273-9469 Diane 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need student tickets for Penn State, Miami, and Michigan. Will pay outrageous prices. Call Dan x1126. 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom x1597. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICE!!I #3501 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's for 4 AIR FORCE GA's. Call x1363. 
~ICHIGAN TICKETS Ill! ~ NEEDED! ~ 
~''''''''lJ 
12 6ft'S It 1 STUDENT I 
~ 272-8954 J'! ~ RMY RAZZ -~
...,,,,,,,._. 
Desperately need 1 Michigan ticket-student or GA. Call Barry at 1765 after 6pm. 
PLEASE HELP ME 11!11 Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
Please sell me your tickets !Ill 
Call Cathy at 273-9624. 
YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's 
AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! 
LETS DEAL! Ron x3504 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 
STUDENT TICKET FOR 
MIAMI GAME. Call Christine 
x4380 
PLEASE HELP!!II need 5 ND/Mich. tickets, stud. or GA; my life depends on it. BIG $ & "house" keg priveleges at our pre-game party. Please be my savior &call Missy, 287-1372. 
NEED 2 GA FOR PURDUE, 
STANFORD, AF, MIAMI"CALL DAVE X1407 
GUESS WHAT! !I Yes, I need tix, too 
especially for MICH and MIAMI. Will trade ANYTHING.$$$$ X4985 
Need 1 student ticket for Mich. and 3forMiami $$$$$$ Call Dave 1862 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!! GAORSTUD. CHRIS 273-9355 $$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS 
$$$$$$JULIE X2569 
Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade Penn State or Air Force. Also 
will to pay big $. Call Jim at x1723 
Help! I NEED 2-4 PURDUE TICKETSIWILL PAY BUCKS!! (GA's) call #349011 
CALL ME if you don't need 
your PURDUE tickets!! I need 
2GA's and 2S'sl! Christian at 
x1478 
Don't Wait in the LONG LINE 
sell your Football ticket 
application to me and make 
$$$$CALL ED 277-8974 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED!!!!!! 
Mom, Dad, and bro. have never been to an ND game. 
2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET will help keep them from watching it on t.v. 
272-8954 Amy Razz 

Wented 6 MIAMI TICKETS Students or General Admission In eny section 
Coli Chuck collect after B pm 
(716) 924~5045 Ond 

MICHIGAN still has maid service. Let us curse them. Need mucho stud. tix/ x1160 
Help! II Looking for Michigan tickets (GAs and Student) Please call John or Regina 258-0809 $$$ 
Please help me recruit little brother. I need Penn St GA & Stud tix. Call John C.@ x1622 
HELP!!!! My Sister is coming for the Michigan game, but she doesn't have a ticket. Please sell me yours. Call me at X4094. 
Need 2 GA for Mich. and 4 for A. F. Call Kevin 273-1906 
I NEED, WANT, WILL PAY FOR FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL KRISTEN AT X1273 ABOUT INDIVIDUAL TIX OR ENTIRE TIX APPLICATION. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WE NEED MICH AND MIAMI STUDENT AND GA TICKETS CALL ALLISON OR ANNE,2732 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468 
Need 2 Miami Stud TIX Will Pay Big Bucks x 1416 Brett 
WANTED: 

1 AIR FORCE G.A. 
2 MIAMI G.A.'S 
CALL MIKE x1581 
Need1 Michigan stud ticket for younger bro. Pat 2059. 
WILL BEAT ANY PRICEIIIIIIIII 
need tickets for (ANY OR ALL): 2 Mich GA's • 1 A.F. stud and 1 or 2 Mich stud. 
NAME YOUR PRICE!IIIIII X1187 
WANTED 
2 MICHIGAN TIXS 
277-7684 
PLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEA SE 1 to 3 PENN ST stud tix needed ­Susan x3141 
TRADE: ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MICH. TIX. CALL TOM 513-677-8106. 
You can save a marriage, sell me your two Miami GA'sl Dave X1566. 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKET(S) 
r Wanted-"" 
Noire Dome-Mioni footbol tkket Will pay topS \. Col 1-100-?~-0576 ~ 
CALL MATT X 2984 
HELP! NEED ONE PURDUE STUD. CALL DENIS X2090 
I NEED TO TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA's for 2 MIAMI GA's. Call SHANNON at x2171. 
I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER$$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ 
NEED 1 PURDUE Tix Bob x2384 x2352 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX HAVE CASH #2936 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!! Need 2 Mich stud TIX!! HELP!! call Tanja x1511 
NEED 1 MICH TIX. WILL PAY$$. CALLX4045 
HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's WILL TRADE FOR 2 TENN OR 2 MIAMI GA's x3652 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Mark x1576. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Art x161 0. 
Need five GA's for Michigan game. Will pay top dollar. Call Paul x1755. 
!NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!! 
lsept.15 ND-MICH. gen. ad. orl 
!stud. =O.k. Older bro +sis !!!!!! 
coming for 1st game $$3022! 
I need 2 Student Michigan 
tickets!!!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE Call Anne 
at 288 0597 
Need 2 Miami GA's 
Call Man x3630 

Okay, any student tickets for Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, please call Paige at x2980. This is serious. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 MICH. TIX! G.A'S OR STUD. CALL x3771 or x3791 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
H E L P!ll 

NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY 
WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS 
PAYING TOP$$$$$ 
CALL JEFF@277-3998 
HELP!! Desperately need 2 GA's for ND vs Penn State. Willing to pay big$!! 
Call 283-4321. 

I!!IIII!PLEASE HELP ME!!!!!!II 
Friend from Oreg,'ln coming to 
see MIAMI game. Willing to pay 
BIG BUCKS! 

Contact Tara at x1124 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN GA'S CALL TOM X1441 
HEY YOU!! 
PLEASE HELP!! 

I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN GAME. 
CALLX2819 

PENN ST. TIX NEEDED 
CALL SCOTT 234-3356 
I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
Parents will take back tuition 
if I don't come through!!!!!!!! 
Call Mike X3506 

WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 
COLL:t-312-745-721 0. 
I NEED GA'S TO PENN STATE 
CALL KENNY AT 271-9349 
NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ 
WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT 
ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 
MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$ 
DEBBIE x2982 

I need 2 Michigan GA's for 
my Mom + Dad's 34th wedding 
anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 
277-4838 

$$$will trade 4 PURDUE GA's and CA$H for 2 MICH GA's John X1187 
WILL PAY CASH for 1 student or 
GA Air Force tick X1187 
HELP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. 
tickets for hometown buddies 
driving all the way up from 
S.C. Call Caroline at x3838. 
DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO 
Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! 
Please call Kathy 277-9406 or 
Mike 273-9471. 

NEED 1 or 2 Miami GA or 
student tix.Name your price.. 
call x 3285 
My poor friends never went to an Irish game. Please sell me your Mich. student tix! Joni 
1839 
GREAT DEAL I 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­other offers welcome x2630 
Need 1 Michigan stud. Please call Peter x1802 
Have 2 USC -need 2 Miami GA Also any home game $$$$$$ Terri x4837 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX........... WAY BAD !!!I 233-7440. PAUL. 
WANTED One set of season student tickets . Will pay for tickets plus $100.00 to you. Call Clint at 289-4914. 
NEED STUD/GA TIX for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings 
HELP!!! !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882 
need 1-4 Mich tix-stud or GA I'll pay $, trade any stud tix, incl Miami x2188 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN GA'S! WILL PAY BIG$ CALL JOY X4856 
Need 2 Miami GAs Big$$ Angie x2110 
Need 1 Student or GA ticket to Michigan. Call Matt at x1089. 
NEED GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. CALL CHRIS X1067 
$$$$$$$$$ ND Alum needs 4 Stanford GAs. Will pay$$$! Call Jim Kirker collect 203-889-3738 $$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE!! NEED 1 OR 2 GA FOR B-DAY GIFT-PENN ST. MEG#3850 
Mich. StudTix needed. You need big cash. Let's talk.Dan x1188. Urgent! 
HELP!! DE$PERATELY NEED MICH. STUD'S & GA'S. PLEA$E CALL MIKE 273-9338 
I NEED TIX!I! 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE, 1 ST. FOR STAN. TONY X1590 
NEED 1 or 2 STUD TIX FOR MICH JOHN x1384 
Need 2 Purdue GA's. x3566 
PENN STATE TIX; need 3 GA's and 2 studs; call Money x3374 
MICHIGAN TIX; need 4 GA's; call MaryAnn 284-5313 
NEED Air Force GAs and stud tix call steve x2924 
Need a MIAMI ticket? I need MICHIGAN. Lets swap! x2601 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ YOU NEED CASH -I'VE GOT IT! I NEED 1 MICHIGAN G.A. & 1-3 MICH. STUDS. CALL BRIAN AT 273-0164 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
looking for two G.A. tickets for the Purdue v. N.D. game please call Greg at #1594 
WANTED: 2 MICH STUD TIX 1 MIAMI STUD TIC Stephanie @ 4322 
MICHIGAN/NO TICKETS WANTED!!! DENVER ALYM NEEDS TWO TO EIGHT GA TIX. WILL PAY$. CALL COLLECT 
(303) 298-9393. ASK FOR BOB. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE, STANFORD, AIR FORCE, OR PENN STATE GA'S FOR 2 MICHIAGAN GA'S. CALL 239­3982. 
see CLASS I page 7 

--------------------------------~-------------------~ -----~--------~---------------------.---~~----~~~----------------~----------------------~-------.~--------~ 
Scoreboard 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 page 11 
BASEBALL STANDINGS COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE U.S. OPEN 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Thursday, Sept. 6 Alabama St. (0-0-1) at Southern U. (0-1 ), Night Women East Division Stanford (0-0) at Colorado (0-0·1), Night Jackson St. (1-0) vs. Tennessee St. (0-1) at Singles w L Pet ca L10 Streak Memphis Quarterfinals Boston 76 59 .563 z-8-2 Lost2 Friday, Sept. 7 Tn.-Chattanooga (0-0) at Tennessee Tech (1-0), Mary Joe Fernandez, (8), Miami, del. Manuela Toronto 70 .515 4-6 Lost2 Maine (0-0) at Villanova (0-0), Night Maleeva-Fragniere (9), Switzerland, 6-2, 2-6, 6-1. 
66 61/2 Night 
Detroit 66 70 .485 101/2 z-8-2 Won2 Clemson (1-0) at Virginia (1-0) Gabriela Sabatini (5), Argentina, del. Leila Milwaukee 63 72 .467 13 5-5 Lost 3 Saturday, Sept. 8 Bowling Green (1-0) at VIrginia Tech (0-1), Night Meskhi, Soviet Union, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. Baltimore 60 74 .448 151/2 1-9 Lost 5 EAST VMI (1-0) at Western Carolina (0-1) Doubles Cleveland 60 75 .444 16 z-2-8 Wont Hofstra (1-0) at Bucknell (0-0) Appalachian St. (1-0) at Wake Forest (0-1 ), Night Quarterfinals New York 56 78 .418 191/2 4-6 Lost5 New Hampshire (0-0) at Connecticut (0-0) MIDWEST Jana Novotna and Helena Sukova, West Division Boston U. (0-1) at Delaware (0-0) Cincinnati (0-1) at Cent. Michigan (0-1) 
Czechoslovakia (1 ), del. Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, w L Pet ca L10 Streak Massachusetts (0-0) at Holy Cross (0-0) Western Michigan (0-0) at Eastern Michigan (0-Spain, and Robin White, San Diego (5), 7-6 (9-7), Oakland 85 50 .630 6-4 Won3 Kutztown (0-1) at Lafayette (0-0) 1), Night 
6-3. Chicago 78 56 .582 61/2 5-5 Won2 Fordham (0-1) at Lehigh (0-0) Ball St. (0-0) at Illinois St. (0-1), Night Doubles 
California 68 67 .504 17 7-3 Won2 Richmond (0-0) at Navy (0-0) Northern Iowa (1-0) at Iowa St. (0-0) Quarterfinals Texas 68 67 .504 17 3-7 Lost 1 Texas (0-0) at Penn St. (0-0) Oregon St. (0-1) at Kansas (0-1) Gigi Fernandez (2), Aspen, Colo .. and Martina Seattle 67 69 .493 18 112 z-6-4 Won2 Boston College (0-0) at Pittsburgh (1-0) Western Illinois (0-1) at Kansas St. (0-0), Night Navratilova, Aspen, Colo., del. Nicole Provis (8), 
Kansas City 66 69 .489 19 3-7 Lost 2 Towson St. (0-0) at Rhode Island (0-0) Akron (1-0) at Kent St. (0-1) Australia, and Elna Aeinach, South Africa, 7-6 (7­Minnesota 63 74 .460 23 z-7-3 Won4 Kentucky (1-0) at Rutgers (0-0), Night Toledo (0-0) at Miami, Ohio (0-1) 3), 4-6, 6-0. Temple (0-1) at Syracuse (0-1), Night Utah (1-0) at Minnesota (0-0), Night 
Kathy Jordan (4), Palo Mo. Calif., and Elizabeth NATIONAL LEAGUE Maryland (1-0) at West Virginia (1-0) Texas Christian (0-1) at Missouri (0-0) 
Smylie, Australia, del. Steffi Graf, West Germany, East Division SOUTH Northern Illinois (1-0) at Nebraska (1-0) and Lori McNeil, Houston, 6-2, 5-7, 6-1. w L Pet ca L10 Streak Southern Mississippi (1-0) at Alabama (0-0) Texas Tech (0-0) at Ohio St. (0-0) 
Mixed Doubles Pittsburgh 78 56 .582 4-6 Won3 Fullerton St. (1-0) at Auburn (0-0), Night Indiana St. (1-0) at Southern Illinois (0-1) Quarterfinal New York 77 56 .579 1/2 7-3 Lost 1 Tennessee-Martin (0-0) at Austin Peay (0-0), California (0-0) at Wisconsin (0-0) Meredith McGrath, Midland, Mich., and Mark Montreal 70 64 .522 8 z-6-4 Lost 1 Night Edinboro (0-0) at Youngstown St. (1-0) Woodforde, Australia, del. Arantxa Sanchez­Chicago 63 71 .470 15 z-4-6 Wont William & Mary (0-0) at Citadel (0-0), Night SOUTHWEST 
Vicario, Spain, and Jorge Lozano, Mexico, 5-7, 6­Philadelphia 62 72 .463 16 z-4-6 Lost3 Northeastern (0-0) vs. Delaware St. (0-1) at Northeast Louisiana (0-0) at Arkansas St. (0-0-1 ), 2,6-4. St. Louis 61 74 .452 171/2 3-7 Wont Wilmington, Del. Night 
West Division Central Florida (1-0) at Eastern Kentucky (0-0), UNLV (0-1) at Houston (0-0) 
w L Pet ca L10 Streak Night Alcorn St. (0-1) at North Texas (0-0), Night Cincinnati 77 57 .575 z-6-4 Lost2 Samford (0-0-1) at East Tennessee St. (0-1), Tulane (0-1) at Rice (1-0), Night GOLF Los Angeles 71 63 .530 6 6-4 Lost 1 Night Idaho (0-1) at Southwest Texas St. (1-0), Night San Francisco 68 .507 z-4-6 Wont Oklahoma St. (1-0) at Florida (0-0) 
66 9 Texas Southern (1-0) at Sam Houston St. (0-0) San Diego 61 72 .459 151/2 2-8 Lost 1 East Carolina (1-0) at Florida St. (0-0), Night at Galveston, Texas, Night PONTE VEDRA, Fla. (AP)-­Houston 61 73 .455 16 z-7-3 Wont Presbyterian (0-0) at Furman (1-0) 
Vanderbilt (0-0) at Southern Methodist (0-0), Money leaders on the 1990 PGA Tour Atlanta 55 80 .407 221/2 7-3 Won5 N. Carolina St. (1-0) at Georgia Tech (0-0) Night 
through the Greater Milwaukee Open, which 
z~denotes first game was a win Morris Brown (0-0) at Howard U. (1-0) 
Angelo St. (0-0) at Stephen F. Austin (0-1 ), Night ended Sept. 2: AMERICAN LEAGUE Liberty (1-0) at James Madison (0-0), Night New Mexico St. (0-1) at Texas-EI Paso (0-1), 1. Greg Norman $907,977Tuesday's Games Georgia (0-0) at LSU (0-0), Night Night 
2. Payne Stewart $826,063 
Seattle 7, Baltimore 2 Murray St. (0-0) at Louisville (0-0-1) 
Southwest Missouri St. (1-0) at Tulsa (0-1), Night 3. Hale Irwin $753,749Oakland 6, Boston 2 West Virginia Tech (0-0) at Marshall (1-0), Night FAR WEST 
4. Mark Calcavecchia $731,644
Detroij 3, Toronto 1 Louisiana Tech (0-1) at McNeese St. (0-1), Night Hawaii (0-1) at Air Force (0-1) 5. Paul Azinger $713,931
Chicago 6, Kansas City 3 Georgia Southern (1-0) at Middle Tennessee (1-Illinois (0-0) at Arizona (0-0), Night 6. Fred Couples $682,499Minnesota 7, Milwaukee 1 0), Night 
Baylor (0-1) at Arizona St. (0-0), Night 7. Gil Morgan $606,755Cleveland 7, Texas 5 Ark.-Pine Bluff (0-0) vs. Miss. Valley St. (1-0) at 
Weber St. (1-0) at Boise St. (1-0), Night 8. Lanny Wadkins $604,433Only games scheduled Jackson, Miss., Night 
Miami, Fla. (0-0) at Brigham Young (1-0), Night 9. Wayne Levi $592,397Wednesday's Games Memphis St. (0-0-1) at Mississippi (0-0), Night 
Montana St. (1-0) at Colorado St. (1-0) 10. Tom Kije $580,782California (Abbott 9-12) at New York (LaPoint 6-1 0), 7:30 p.m. Tennessee (1-0-1) at Mississippi St. (0-0), Night 
Lenolr-Rhyne (0-0) at Eastern Washington (0-0) Seattle (R.Johnson 13-8) at Baltimore (Mitchell 6-6), 7:35 p.m. Western Kentucky (0-0) at Morehead St. (0-1), 
New Mexico (1-0) at Fresno St. (1-0), Night Oakland (Welch 22-5) at Boston (Harris 12-5), 7:35p.m. Night 
Southern Utah (0-1) at Idaho St. (0-0) 11. Larry Mize $565,088Toronto (Wells 9-4) at Detroij (Parker 3-1), 7:35p.m. Bethune-Cookman (1-0) at Morgan St. (0-1) 
Northern Arizona (1-0) at Nevada (0-0) 12. Tim Simpson $501,189Kansas City (Stottlemyre 0-0) at Chicago (Hibbard 11-8), 8:05p.m. Winston-Salem (0-0) at N. Carolina A&T (1-0) 
San Diego St. (0-0) at Oregon (0-0) 13. Peter Jacobsen $477,688Minnesota (R.Smith 5-10) at Milwaukee (A. Robinson 8-3), 8:35p.m. Eastern Illinois (0-1) at NW Louisiana (0-0), 
Sacramento St. (0-0) at Pac~ic U. (0-1), Night 14. Chip Beck $432,816Cleveland (Swindell10-8) at Texas (Moyer 1-6), 8:35p.m. Night Oklahoma (0-0) at UCLA (0-0) 15. Wayne Grady $427,623Thursday's Games Nicholls St. (1-0) at SW Louisiana (1-0), Night 
Long Beach St. (0-1) at Utah St. (0-1) 16. Steve Elkington $412,623Cleveland at Detroit, 7:05 p.m. North Carolina (1-0) at South Carolina (1-0), 
San Jose St. (0-0-1) at Washington (0-0) 17. Mark O'Meara $402,275California at New York, 7:30 p.m. Night 
Wyoming (1-0) at Washington St. (1-0) 18. Jodie Mudd $401,746Kansas City at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
19. Robert Gamez $391,319Only games scheduled 20. John Huston 
I NATIONAL LEAGUE 
TRANSACTIONS $378,930 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Don
Monday's Games BASEBALL Majkowski, quarterback, to a one-year 21. Jim Gallagher, Jr. $368,282
Atlanta 8, Cincinnati 6 
American League contract. Waived Mike Norseth, quarterback; 22. Ben Crenshaw $348,440Montreal 3, Chicago 2, 12 innings SAL TIMORE ORIOLES-Activated Dave Dale Hatcher, punter; Flip Johnson, wide 23. David Frost $346,348Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 1 Johnson, pijcher, from the 15-day disabled receiver; Paul Frazier, running back; William 24. Nick Faldo $345,262New York 9, St. Louis 3 
list. Harris, tight end; George Varna, center; 25. Billy Mayfair $343,819Houston 7, Los Angeles 3 
TEXAS RANGERS-Acquired Joe Bilker Shawn Miller, defensive end; Greg Clark, 26. Jose Maria Olazabal $337,837
San Francisco 5, San Diego 4 Tuesday's Games 
and Scott Chiamparino, p~chers, from the linebacker; Roger Brown, cornerback; and 27. Davis Love Ill $337,022 Oakland Athletics to complete the Harold Stan Shiver, safety. Placed Eric Affholter, 28. Tommy Armour $329,182 Baines trade. wide receiver; Mark Hall, defensive end, and 29. Loren Roberts $325,947 Late Games Not Included 
Atlanta 7, Cincinnati 4 Chicago 3, Montreal 1 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS--Called up Jim Bryce Paup, linebacker, on injured reserve 30. Steve Pate $319,932 
Eppard, first baseman; Rob Ducey, and Dave Brown, cornerback, on thePittsburgh 11, Philadelphia 7 outfielder; and AI Leiter, pitcher, from physically-unable-to-perform list.
St. Louis 1, New York 0 Syracuse of the International League. HOUSTON OILERS-Signed Patrick 31 . Brian Tennyson $315,040San Francisco at San Diego, (n) 
National League Allen, cornerback. 32. Mike Donald $313,196Houston at Los Angeles, (n) CHICAGO CUBS--Called up Greg Sm~. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Released 33. Nick Price $305,428Wednesday's Games Infielder, and Dave Pavlas, pijcher, from Sidney Johnson, cornerback, and James 34. lan Baker-Finch $305,363New York (Viola 17-9 and Ojeda 7-5) at Pittsburgh (Z.Smith 9-7 and Heaton 11-8), 2, 5:05 Iowa of the American Association. Griffin, safety. Placed Jonathan Hayes, tight 35. Billy Ray Brown $299,161Chicago (Harkey 12-6) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 7 -8), 7:35 p.m. 
Purchased the contract of Derrick May, end; Fred Jones, wide receiver; Rob Woods 36. Scott Verplank $297,064Montreal (Nabholz 3-0) at St. Louis (Deleon 7-14), 8:35p.m. 
outfielder. tackle; and Tom Sims, nose guard on 37. Scott Hoch $296,563Houston (Scott 9-12) at San Diego (Rasmussen 8-13), 1 0:05 p.m. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Activated Drew injured reserve. 38. Steve Jones $289,682Cincinnati (Charlton 10-7) at San Francisco (Robinson 10-4), 10:05 p.m. 
Hall, pitcher, from the 21-day disabled list. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Placed Mike 39. Gene Sauers $287,235Atlanta (Smaltz 12-9) at Los Angeles (Morgan 1 0-12), 10:35 p.m. 
Released Rich Thompson, pitcher. Claimed Alexander. wide receiver, and Bruce 40. Corey Pavin $285,542
Thursday's Games 
Kevin Bearse and Carl Keliipuleole, Wilkerson, offensive tackle, on injuredMontreal at St. Louis, 1:35 p.m. 
pitchers, off waivers. reserve. Recalled Vince Evans, quarterback, Cincinnati at San Francisco, 3:35 p.m. 
NEW YORK METS--Called up Jeff and Elvis Patterson, cornerback, from 41 . Bruce Lietzke $274,174 New York at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Musselman and Jeff Innis, pijchers, and waivers. 42. Curtis Strange $272,359 Houston at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 
Chicago at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.m. 
Kelvin Torve, infielder, from Tidewater of the LOS ANGELES RAMS--Claimed Mickey 43. Mark Brooks $264,587 Atlanta at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
International League. Purchased the Sutton. cornerback, off waivers. Placed 44. Ray Royd $264,078 contract of Chris Jelic, infielder, from Darryl Henley and Jerry Gray, cornerbacks, 45. Tom Purtzer $263,852 Tidewater. Waived Barry Lyons, catcher, for and Larry Keirn, linebacker, on injured 46. Dan Forsman $260,846 the purpose of giving him his unconditional reserve. 47. Kenny Perry $258,881
SPORTS CALENDAR 
release. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Roy Foster, 48. Ken Green $254,889 PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Recalled Mike guard, to a one-year contract. Claimed 49. Craig Stadler $251,832 
York and Doug Bair, p~chers, from Buffalo of Clifford Char~on, linebacker, off waivers. 50. Chris Perry $246,508 Wednesday, Sept. 5 Saturday, Sept. 8 the American Association. Purchased the MINNESOTA VIKINGS--Claimed Cris No sports scheduled Women's soccer vs. DUKE, 2 p.m. contract of Dann Bilardello, catcher, from Carter, wide receiver, and Donald 
51. Morris Hatalsky $245,769 Women's volleyball continues to host the Notre Buffalo. lgwebuike, placekicker, off waivers. 
52. 
Tony Sills $243,350Thursday, Sept. 6 Dame Invitational vs. Evansville, St. Louis and BASKETBALL Recalled Jesse Clark, running back, from 

53. 
Mike Reid $237,540No sports scheduled Western Michigan National Basketball Association waivers. 


54. Scott Simpson $235,309 DETROIT PISTONS-Agreed to terms with NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Placed 
55. 
Rocco Mediate $233,844Friday, Sept. 7 Sunday, Sept. 9 wijh Tree Rollins, center. Sean Farrell, offensive guard; Paul 

56. 
Russ Cochran $220,193Men's soccer vs. DUKE, 8 p.m. Men's soccer vs. NORTH CAROLINA ST., 1 p.m. DENVER NUGGETS-Signed Clifford Lett Fairchild, center; Michael Timpson, wide 

57. 
Bill Britton $219,144Women's volleyball hosts the Notre Dame Women's soccer vs. UNC-GREENSBORO, 1 p.m. and Stevie Thompson, guards. receiver; Vincent Donelson, cornerback; 

58. 
Jeff Sluman $218,991Invitational vs. Evansville, St. Louis and Western HOUSTON ROCKETS-Named Ed Zeke Mowatt, tight end; and Jon Melander, 

59. 
Peter Persons $215,109Michigan Schmidt president. offensive tackle, on injured reserve. 

60. 
Tom Watson $213,989 PHOENIX SUNS-Signed Nagele Knight, Recalled Ed Williams, linebacker; Lin guard, to a four-year contract and Cedric Dawson, tight end; and David Douglas,LEAGUE LEADERS Ceballos, forward, to a three-year contract. offensive tackle, from waivers. Claimed 61. John Mahaffey $211,854 PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS-Signed Marion Hobby, defensive lineman; Gene 62. Billy Andrade $209,672 BASEBALL'S TOPTEN LaShun McDaniels, guard, to a one-year Chilton, center; and Stan Clayton, offensive 63. John Cook $209,167 By The Associated Press contract. guard, off waivers. 64. Mike Hulbert $207,300 Based on 352 at Bats. FOOTBALL NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Dave 65. Andrew Magee $202,363 AMERICAN LEAGUE National Football League Duerson, safety. Placed Matt Stover, 66. Hal Sutton $195,631 G AB A H Pet. ATLANTA FALCONS--Claimed Reggie placekicker, on injured reserve. 67. David Ishii $188,000 RHdsnOak 114 414 99 135 .326 Thornton, wide receiver, off waivers. NEW YORK JETS-Waived Brad Quast, 68. Don Pooley $185,386 Brett KC 121 465 74 149 .320 Recalled Stacey Bailey, wide receiver; Troy linebacker, and Anthony Parker, cornerback. 69. Jim Thorpe $184,864 Plmero Tax 127 492 60 157 .319 Sadowski, tight end; and Elbert Shelley, Recalled Chris Dressel, tight end; John 70. Fuzzy Zoeller $182,152 


Trammell Det 129 499 66 157 .315 safety, from waivers. Placed Reggie Galvin and Dan Murray, linebackers; and Burks Bsn 125 479 77 149 .311 Redding, offensive tackle; George Thomas, Freeman McNeil, running back, from 
71. 
Ted Schulz $180,709Boggs Bsn 130 523 79 162 .310 wide receiver; Tim Gordon, safety, and Mike waivers. Claimed Troy Johnson, linebacker, 

72. 
David Peoples $176,444Harper Min 116 417 57 129 .309 Pringle, running back, on injured reserve. and Doug Wellsandt, tight end, off waivers. 

73. 
Kirk Triplett $176,271DParker Mil 132 513 63 158 .308 CHICAGO BEARS-Placed Dante Jones, Placed Dale Dawkins, wide receiver; Patrick 

74. 
Jay Haas $170,102McGriff Tor 127 454 80 140 .308 linebacker, and Glen Kozlowski, wide Egu, running back; Alex Gordon, linebacker; 


75. Bob Estes $169,938
Puckett Min 124 464 78 143 .308 receiver, on injured reserve. Recalled Tom Scott Jones, offensive tackle; and Dwayne 76. Fred Funk $166,335 Home Runs Waddle and Quintin Sm~. wide receivers, White, offensive guard, on injured reserve. 
77. Brad Faxon $160,420Fielder, Detroit, 43; JCanseco, Oakland, 35; McGwire, Oakland, 33; McGriff, Toronto, 31; Deer, from waivers. NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Placed $154,508
78. Bill Glasson 
Milwaukee, 26; Gruber, Toronto, 24; RHenderson, Oakland, 24; BJackson, Kansas City, 22. CINCINNATl BENGALS--Piaced Bruce Charles Arbuckle, tight end, on injured 79. Bob Tway $154,192 Runs Batted In Reimers and Kirk Scrafford, offensive reserve. Claimed Pat Swoopes, nose tackle, 
80. Mark Lye $151,136
Fielder, Detroij, 112; McGwire, Oakland, 90; JCanseco, Oakland, 89; Gruber, Toronto, 88; DParker, linemen, and Lynn James, wide receiver, on off waivers. Milwaukee, 85; Trammell, Detroit, 82; Sierra, Texas, 81; Burks, Boston, 79. injured reserve. Re-signed Eric Crigler, PHOENIX CARDINALS--Claimed John 
offensive lineman, and Kendal Smith, wide Jackson, wide receiver, and Dennis Smijh, 81. Bobby Wadkins $150,804 G AB A H Pet. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
receiver. tight end, off waivers. Placed Stanley Blair, 82. Jay Delsing $150,391 
CLEVELAND BROWNS--Claimed Leo cornerback, and David Galloway, defensive 83. Mark McCumber $148,203Dykstra Phi 126 498 93 170 .341 
Lewis, wide receiver, off waivers. Agreed to end, on injured reserve. 84. Brian Claar $147,531McGee StL 125 501 76 168 .335 
terms with Felix Wright, defensive back . SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Placed Joel 85. Brad Bryant $146,919Magadan NY 117 356 59 118 .331 Placed Mark Harper, cornerback; Tom Patten, offensive tackle, and John Friesz, 86. Rick Fehr $146,037Duncan Gin 106 374 59 118 .316 
Gibson, defensive lineman, and Lawyer quarterback, on injured reserve. Recalled 87. D.A. Weibring $144,742Murray LA 128 459 76 143 .312 
Tillman, wide receiver, on injured reserve. Gerald Robinson, defensive end, from 88. David Edwards $143,960TGwynn SO 130 529 71 165 .312 
DALLAS COWBOYS-Signed Emmitt waivers. Claimed Anthony Shelton, 89. David Canipe $143,572Grace Chi 131 493 56 152 .308 
Smith, running back. Placed Michael Irvin, defensive back, off waivers. 90. Richard Zokol $140,934Bonds Pit 125 430 89 132 .307 
wide receiver, and Jeff Zimmerman, SEATTLE SEAHAWKS--Waived Ruben Larkin Cin 133 517 73 158 .306 
offensive guard, on injured reserve . Rodriguez, punter; Elroy Harris and Chris Dawson Chi 121 439 54 134 . 305 Recalled Timmy Sm~. running back, and Mclemore, running becks, Bobby Joe 91. Bill Sander $140,186LoSmith Atl 112 377 56 115 .305 
Ken Willis, placekicker, from waivers . Edmonds, kick returner; Jamie Kimmel, 92. Brad Fabel $138,798Roberts SO 125 462 84 141 . 305 DENVER BRONCOS-Placed Tim Lucas linebacker; Teddy Garcia, place kicker; 93. Donnie Hammond $136,059Wallach Mon 133 514 55 157 .305 
and Ronnie Halliburton, linebackers, and Robert Tyler, tight end; Terry Obee and John 94. Mike Smith $134,446Home Runs Brent Parkinson, offensive lineman, on Ford, wide receivers; and Jethro Franklin, 95. Tom Sieckmann $132,345Sandberg, Chicago, 32; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 31; Mitchell, San Francisco, 31; Strawberry, New York, 30; injured reserve. Recalled Scott Beavers, defensive end. Placed Dave Wyman, 96. Fu~on Allem $130,343MaWilliams, San Francisco, 27; Gant, Atlanta, 26; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 25; Saba, Cincinnati, 23. 
offensive lineman, and Ty Alert! and linebacker; R.J. Kors, safety; and Warren 97. Dave Barr $126,159Runs Batted In Anthony Thompson. linebackers, off Wheat, guard, on injured reserve. Received 98. Bob Lohr $126,Q43MaWilliams, San Francisco, 101; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 99; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 99; JCarter, San Diego, 99; 
Strawberry, New York, 90; Wallach, Montreal, 83; HJohnson, New York, 82; Mitchell, San Francisco, 82; waivers. a roster exemption for Cortez Kennedy, 99. Ray Stewart $123,536 defensive lineman. 100. Bob Eastwood $121,863 
..----------------~-----------------------·-------------~--~---------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1990 
Tricoci hopes for major impact with ND soccer 
First-year coach Berticelli anticipates big contribution from sophomore sweeper 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR soccer field is integral. He is "I played well last year, but "Mario can read the game balance is created between the 
Sports Writer the last line of defense before the system was confusing to really well," said Stebbins. "All offense, midfield and defense. the goalkeeper, and it is his job most players," said Tricoci. "I he needs is a little confidence." "Last year, players needed to to direct the defense. worked real hard this summer During training this summer,· be aggressive runners; soccer 
Upon first seeing Mario Tric­Playing sweeper is a pressure-and I knew I could start." Mario's exceptional work ethic skills weren't that important," oci, an image of a brash young filled situation, but Tricoci Tl,'"icoci was pushed into the caught the eye of Berticelli, who said Tricoci, "but this year, ev­star is conjured up in one's thrives on it. forward spot during the 1989 was looking for athletes to fill eryone contributes." mind. The sophomore "I enjoy the pressure," Tricoci campaign, despite the fact that his starting roster. Although he is a premier tal­sweeper's mop of curly hair said. "If you're scared back he had played midfield and de-"I liked his work rate, inten-ent in his own right, Tricoci's and aggressive style of play are there, there's only one guy be-fense throughout his high sity, and competitive spirit," goals center around the Irish reminiscent of athletes such as hind you." school career. But this year, he Berticelli said. "We tried to get team unit, and they are lofty Mark Gastineau and Andre Despite a stellar prep career, is glad to be back on the defen-11 competitive players, and indeed. Agassi. during which he scored 7 5 sive side of the ball. (Tricoci) had an extremely 
goals, Tricoci played in only "I control the tempo and set good preseason." "I hope we can work toward 
But unlike these individuals, three games last season. How-the defense. I can see the whole a national ranking this year,the first-year starter on the ever, this year, under first-year field, while the midfielders and Tricoci felt that last year's and contend for the NCAA Irish men's' soccer team plays coach Mike Berticelli, Tricoci forwards cannot," Tricoci said. system stressed raw athleticism championship soon," said Tric­with one motive: to help his felt that he had a chance to Co-captain Danny Stebbins overskill. However, Berticelli's oci. "We have the talent, and a team win. start, and he made the best of has confidence in Tricoci's system puts equal importance world-class coach, to do it 
The sweeper's role on the it. abilities. on conditioning and skill, and a with." 
Sabatini rallies to beat Soviet, will face Fernandez in semis 
NEW YORK (AP) -Gabriela 12th game when a lob by brightly over the stadium, and held on and broke Meskhi for proached the net 35 times to Sabatini danced along a tennis Meskhi landed an inch long, the crowd of about 20,000 the final time on a forehand Maleeva-Fragniere's 18. tightrope before knocking off a and came back from 2-5 down screamed and groaned with ev-long by Meskhi, ending the tiny Soviet slugger, and in the tie-breaker. ery exchange on seemingly end-longest straight-set women's She attacked Maleeva­American teen Mary Joe The athletic Argentine won less rallies. match of the tournament. Fragniere from the start, Fernandez delivered on the the last five points of the tie-Sabatini, worried about early Fernandez came back from a breaking her after two deuces, promise she showed in her first breaker as Meskhi's composure misses at the net, backed off bout of second-set wildness and then raced to a 4-0 lead by tak­
u.S. Open at 14. finally cracked. Meskhi had and played into Meskhi's took target practice at the ing control both at the baseline 
The shaky victories by No. 5 been winning points with deep, strength with topspin ground-corners and lines to reach her and at the net. Sabatini and No. 8 Fernandez hard groundstrokes and an ag-strokes for most of the first second Grand Slam semifinals "I got on top of her pretty on Tuesday set up a semifinal gressive net game that belied set. But after realizing she this year. fast in the first set," Fernandez match between them, and both her 5-foot-4 height and pixieish could win points with low shots Fernandez's 6-2, 2-6, 6-1 vic­will gladly take two days off build. that Meskhi smacked into the tory over Manuela Maleeva-Fernandez, the youngest first to recover from their jit-But in the tie-breaker, she net, Sabatini began to change Fragniere, the fourth-round player to win a match here two ters in getting there. double-faulted for the first time her strategy. conqueror of Martina weeks after she turned 14 in 
Sabatini, considered from the at 5-4, then hit a forehand Sabatini broke Meskhi twice Navratilova, confirmed that the 1985, is still a tall, skinny teen start of the Open a solid con-long, drilled an easy overhead to take a 4-2 lead in the second 19-year-old Floridian's trip to with a long pigtail draping tender to take Steffi Grafs title, into the net and lost the set on set. After the second break, at the Australian final last halfway down her back. But found herself in a 2 1/2 hour a weak backhand that Sabatini love, Meskhi looked glumly at January was no fluke. she's grown stronger, especially test of wills with unseeded Leila volleyed hard into the cement. the ground, as if already This was a poised and mature in the past year, and seems to Meskhi before winning 7-6 (7-That set lasted one hour, 29 beaten, dispirited by bad calls Fernandez, able to shake off a be just on the brink of reaching 5), 6-4. minutes -more than a half-and blown opportunities. Yet sloppy second set and stick to her potential. 
Sabatini, teetering on the hour longer than Graf took to she rallied again, broke her strategy of coming in be­edge of defeat in the first set, beat Jennifer Capriati in two Sabatini back twice and· was hind deep shots down the lines. said. "I knew I had to be ag­fought off a set point in the sets -but it served only as a serving at 5-4 with a chance to She showed a developing net gressive. I knew I had to keep 10th game after the crowd ral-prelude to an equally tense sec-tie the set. attack honed in doubles the pressure on her to be on the lied behind her, another in the ond set. A full moon shone Once more, though, Sabatini matches and onfidently ap-defensive all the time." 
~..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
: SENIORS 
.,i
I ~ 
~ I
I ~ 
~ I
I SENIOR COOKOUT SENIOR CUBS TRIP ~
I I
ATTHE 
~ ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB CUBS VS. EXPOS I
I ~
!------------------------------------! 
I WEDNESDAY MONDAY I ~ SEPT. 5th SEPT. 1 Olh ~ 
~ I
I 7·9 pm Night Game AI Wrigley ~ ~ I
I ~ 
~ Join your classmates Tickets go on sale 1I on the back patio Wednesday at the ~ ~ for a free dinner class office. limited 1 
~ spaces available ~
1 and go inside when so don't delay. ~1 the club opens at Cost is $18 -class 1 ~ 9:00 pm. office is open ! ~ from 3-5 pm. i 
I Open to all seniors. Buses will leave I ~ Gate 10 JACC on ~I *You do not have to be Monday at 4:30pm. I ~ 21 for the cookout ! ! * No alcohol on buses * 1 
~...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................~ 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Stewart downs Clemensas A's beat Red Sox 6-2 
BOSTON (AP) -Oakland's Dave Stewart outdueled Boston's Roger Clemens for the sixth consecutive time since 1986 Tuesday night as the Ath­letics capitalized on walks and errors for a 6-2 win over the Red Sox. 
Stewart (18-10) allowed six hits in eight innings, while Clemens (20-6) had an eight­game winning streak ended as he failed to get through the sixth. 
Clemens, who still leads the AL with a 1.98 earned run av­erage, gave up four runs, two unearned, in his shortest outing since June 18, when he lasted less than two innings against Baltimore. 
The two-time Cy Young 
Thorpe 
continued from page 16 
passes for an average of 33.3 yards and two touchdowns. 
Arizona State's Nathan LaDuke finished right behind Lyght in the 1989 Thorpe bal­loting, proving wrong those who thought the 5-10, 195­pounder was neither big enough nor fast enough to play college football. With 238 ca­reer tackles, LaDuke also had six interceptions last year, in­cluding three off Houston's Heisman Trophy winner Andre Ware. 
Rounding out the field are David Key, Bruce Pickens and Jesse Campbell. Key, who joins Welborne in Michigan's lethal backfield, was nicknamed "Predator" last year and says he gets sick just watching the offensive players walk on the field. His distaste for those on the other side of the line helped him garner 51 tackles last sea­son and earn a reputation as a hard knocker. 
Pickens, a senior cornerback from Nebraska, is considered a superb coverage specialist, while North Carolina State's Campbell is hoping to improve from a disappointing 1989 sea­son. 
Award winner struck out six, going over the 200-mark for a club record fifth time, but he walked six and committed two costly throwing errors. 
White Sox-6, KC 3 
CHICAGO (AP) -Jack McDowell won his sixth straight decision and record­breaking reliever Bobby Thigpen notched his 48th save as the Chicago White Sox beat the Kansas City Royals 6-3 Tuesday night. 
Dan Pasqua had two hits and three RBI and Lance Johnson had two hits and scored three runs to key the Chicago offense as the White Sox remained 6 1/2 games behind the AL West­leading Oakland Athletics, who beat Boston 6-2. 
To the Prettiest girl in the freshman class. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANGELA! 
LOVE, JOHN 

from behind and Justice added another solo homer in the eighth. Tom Glavine (7 -11) scattered six hits over eight in­nings in snapping a five-game losing streak dating back to July 17 and extending Atlanta's 
winning streak to five. 
Cubs 3, Expos 1 
MONTREAL -Ryne Sandberg hit his 32nd homer, a tie-breaking two-run shot in the ninth inning. Martinez (10­
10) had a one-hitter until Dwight Smith's sixth home run in the eighth inning tied the score. 
Gary Varsho, hitting for Cubs starter Mike Bielecki, opened the ninth with a checked-swing single in front of the mound that Martinez threw past first for an error. 
Football Ticket Sale Information 
Law/Grad Students: TODAY Sophomores: Thursday, Sept. 6 Freshmen: Friday, Sept. 7 

Issue Hours: 9:00AM-8:00PM 
Bring application, student 1.0. and remittance to Gate 1 0, JACC. One student may present maximum 4 applications and 1.0. cards. 
McDowell (12-6) gave up six hits, struck out two and walked four in 7 2-3 innings. McDowell's last loss was a 9-5 decision in Boston on August 1. He is 6-0 in nine starts at home since California beat him 4-1 on June 18. 
Thigpen, who broke Dave Righetti's major league save record with his 47th Monday, pitched the last 1 1-3 innings after McDowell gave up a two­run double to Danny Tartabull in the eighth. 
Cardinals 1, Mets 0 
ST. LOUIS -Joe Magrane, with help from two relievers, beat New York for the third time in less than six weeks as St. Louis ended the Mets' seven­game winning streak. 

Magrane, 6mar Olivares and Lee Smith combined on a five­hitter and Terry Pendleton's hit-and-run double in the fourth inning, only his second RBI since Aug. 8, scored Ozzie Smith from first with the only run. 
Sid Fernandez (9-11) held St. Louis to three hits in seven in­nings but two of them came in the fourth. Smith singled with one out for the Cardinals' first hit. He was off and running and scored standing up when Pendleton ripped a grounder inside third base down the left­field line. 
Braves 7, Reds 4 
ATLANTA -Home runs by Ron Gant and Dave Justice on consecutive pitches in the fourth inning brought Atlanta 
Items 
continued from page 16 
tangible signs of the fabled spirit of Fighting Irish football. 
You hear about Rockne. The Gipper. The Four Horsemen. Touchdown Jesus. The only one of these to appear in Notre Dame Stadium was Rockne, and that was only for one sea­son, the stadium's first. But what about the students, who have made the House That Rockne Built the hallowed box of animated spirit that it al­ways has been? 
On Monday morning at 2:30 a.m., we went out to the line of attrition to ask the real sus­tain~rs of the Notre Dame mys­tique why they so willingly sac­rifice sleep and comfort to wait for tickets that they were as­sured of getting later. 
"It's something to tell your grandkids about," said Wong, huddled under a blanket, play­ing poker (for poker chips, of course). "You're only at Notre Dame once, and this is what Notre Dame is all about." 
Squirrel, who was teaching his friends an alternate way to play poker in a game called 

specialists in pro bikes is welcoming students back to school by taking 10% of1 a full selection of 1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
Night Baseball, was a little less analytical.
The Observer 

JUNIOR CLASS CRUISE 
SEPT. 13, 1990 
Tickets on Sale today in the Junior Class Office 
"If's fun," said Squirrel, sim­
ply. "Unless security comes by." 
Security. The one snag in an 
otherwise wonderful tradition. 
Although ticket lines are less 
rowdy these days than they 
were a decade ago, the exis­
tence of coolers, furniture and 
trash makes the security de­
partment uneasy. 
"It's a very unsafe and irre­sponsible practice," said Rex Rakow, Director of Security at Notre Dame. "The students don't get any better seats by camping out anyway. And then people don't usually sit in their seats. It (the lines) seems an unnecessary burden for a lot of different people that doesn't need to happen. But it's sure not my call." 
Though it may have seemed as though those grim security guards were pestering students over petty offenses, they simply were doing their jobs. The fact is that they were trying to maintain order without dis­persing the whole party. In 
other words, if they had turned 
their heads at the activities, 
they could have lost their jobs. 
But at 3 a.m., the students 
didn't see things that way. 
"Put in there how the security guards are being --," said a few students. "Make sure you mention that." 
Security aside, the positive sentiments flowed from stu­dents excited to be there Sun­day night. Ticket buyers sang songs, played cards, threw Frisbees, socialized and even (gasp!) did homework. 
Pat McQuillan offered the most truthful explanation for sitting out all night away from his dorm in Dillon: "to put off doing homework." 
And another student, who didn't want the wrath of tall bodies coming down on him, had another explanation. 
"I'm waiting out for football tickets because we don't have a basketball team." 
The atmosphere in overnight ticket lines is always one to re­member. One person could be sleeping, the next person read­ing, and the next yelling some­thing to someone further up the line. As the hours passed, the activity waned, and at 7:30a.m. the bleary-eyed students watched Lou Holtz walk to the front of the line and give out jelly doughnuts. 
But one could find Squirrel throughout the night sitting in front, hardly moving his arm to take the poker chips he won in the last hand. 

----------~---------------­
r-~ S~ba cal:l~~e:ds :~~~a;~·· 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The women's soccer team started off its season on Sun­day with a 5-1 win over North­east Missouri State, thanks in part to senior co-captain Mimi Suba, who contributed her first assist of the year. 
The victory, as well as Suba's effort against the team ranked second in Division II, were not surprising. The St. Louis native was the leading playmaker on the team last year with 10 as­sists and earns nothing but praise from first-year coach Chris Petricelli. 
"Mimi is a talented striker off 
Majkowski finally signs contract 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) -discussions. He said Majkowski Don Majkowski, the Green Bay would sign the contract Packers' All-Pro quarterback, Wednesday. agreed Tuesday to end a 45-day "Don's thrilled to be back," 
holdout and sign a one-year Vataha said. "We think it's a contract that will pay him at fair deal given the circum­least $1.5 million, his agent stances. Don is anxious to 
said. show what he can do." Agent Randy Vataha said the Majkowski arrived at Green 
contract agreement, which with Bay's airport about 9 p.m. incentives could could pay Tuesday, saying there were no Majkowski as much as $2 mil­hard feelings about the con­lion, was reached during a tract dispute. meeting with Packers vice pres­ident Tom Braatz in Detroit. "It was unfortunate it took 
Vataha said the two sides re­so long. That's the business viewed contracts of other NFL part of it," he said. "Once ev­quarterbacks as part of their erything is done, both sides are 
receiver, so you can have a
Smith 

chance to make key plays and continued from page 16 help the team.~ . . 
so his speed certainly is not a Notre Dames recelVlng corps problem, and although Holtz has suffered a bit this fall be-says Smith's hands are a weak ca:us~ of injuries to sophomores point, he hasn't dropped too WI_lham Pollard _and Ray many passes this fall. Griggs, who have missed a lot 
"I think that in all the offense of practice since the beginning versus defense scrimmaging of two-a-days in August. Be­we've done this fall I've cause of these injuries, the Irish dropped maybe three balls at are going to lean on Smith even 
the most. I've been working a more, but he doesn't seem to 
lot on my hands, and I'm pretty mind. confident when the ball is "I'd iove to see Will and Raythrown to me," Smith says. get healthy, but right now I 
Confidence at the split end think I'm the one who can do 
position is going to be crucial the job," Smith says. for the Irish this year as they Those who still doubt that an unveil an attack which will bet­Irish passing attack will be ef­
ter utilize the passing skills of fective say that the inexperience 
sophomore quarterback Rick of the receivers will force Notre Mirer. Holtz says he welcomes Dame to rely too much on its the increased emphasis on the running game. Yet Holtz claims 
passing attack which will give the critics' perception of his the Irish receivers a more players as untested is unwar­prominent role in the offense. ranted. "This puts us in a position "I'd say unproven is a better where we will have an opportu­word than untested. We haven't nity to win more games," Holtz thrown the ball much (in the says. "That's why you play wide past), so you could say that we 
At Notre Dame, among the 10,000 stu­dents and the faculty and staff and re­ligJOus, there ate likely one thousand 
gay, lesbian, and bisexual people 
ONE THOUSAND OF US 
Gay people are everywhere, m all
ARE YOUR FRIENDS. 
walks of life. Sociological studjes show that about ten percent of tht" population is gay. It doesn't matter ~~ someone if Catholic, Protestant, or Jewish; whether they are Black, Asian, Hispanic, or white; rich or poor; or from ;;~ny culture or place -about one person in ten is gay, lesbian, or bisexu­al. Even here at Notre Dame, last se­mester's Student Government Sun•ev showed that nearly ten percent of st~­dents here have engaged in same-sex sexual activity. 
But gay people are a hidden minority, and our invisibility makes us easy tar­gets for discrimination and oppres­sion. And this atmosphere of hatred and intolerance makes it very difficult for gay people to live openly and free­ly. 
We are dedicated to providing sup­port and affm~nation to gay, }esbian. and bisexual people and educating tht' Notre Dame community about homo­sexuality. If you're interested in htdy;r ing us achieve these goals, please write or call us for more information 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame .Post Office Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
the ball who can score, but she's also a very smart tactical player," Petricelli said. 
Suba's three year varsity ca­reer at Notre Dame has been a very productive one. She has scored seven times, including the first varsity goal for the women's soccer program. In addition, Suba has 18 assists, including two in a come from behind win against St. Mary's her sophomore year. 
But, as Petricelli points out, her primary importance to the team stems not from her num­bers, but from her attitude. 
"Mimi has a calming effect on the team. She's a very level­headed player who is a team leader on and off the field," 
commented Petricelli. Freshman Christy Lewis agreed. 
"Mimi's an authority figure, but she isn't domineering," said Lewis. "Also, she made it a point to make all the freshmen, including myself, feel welcome." 
Unfortunately for Suba and the team, the senior strained a hip flexor in the second half of Sunday's game and will be out temporarily. She will most likely miss Saturday's game against Duke, as well as Sun­day's game against Greensburo. 
But once she is back, expect to see Suba leading the women's soccer team to a Divi­sion I ranking. 
glad it's over. I understand they had to say things as they are negotiating, and we had to say things. You've got to get over it." 
Asked how the settlement was reached, he said, "Green Bay started talking a little more, and that's all they needed to 
d0. " 

Infante said Tuesday he was pleased Majkowski would re­turn to the team and the dis­traction of the holdout would end, but Dilweg would remain 
-the starter for the opener. 
-have yet to prove ourselves," Holtz says. 
With Tony Smith leading the way, the Irish could prove themselves as soon as the sea­son opens September 15 against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. 

one can experience a major brain drain. And a big hunger for good food. Something besides carry-out pizzas and sandwidles. 
Fortunately, you can come home to the Hacienda on Grape Road for some terrific Mexican and American food and beverages... the famous Wet Burrito and Nachos Fiesta or some hot new menu items like Fajitas and fried ice 
cream. 

And, remember, Hacienda chips n' sauce are always FREE. 
1 0% discount on food to all ND/SMC students, farulty and staff at the Grape Road Indian Ridge Plaza Hacienda during September (college ID 
required). So why put up w~~ith~sta~l~e~p~izza~a~n=d~sa;n;d~w~ichfes~--~·;:-:;.1-----i
when you can come home to_ Hacienda? 
Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-1 0 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 


• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • · • · • • · • • • • • • · · • • · • • ·e·~cienda MexiCart Restallrahts -·1990 
..................-········--········--···..................... 
-----~-----. 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Championship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to anyone in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsitv golf teams. 
Notre Dame rugby meeting for anyone interested in playing for the N.D. rugby club should meet in the Haggar Hall auditorium on today at 5 p.m. No experience or pads necessary. Call Deuce at x3502. 
Anyone interested in joining the men's and women's varsity track and field teams, there will be an important meeting on Friday, Sept. 7th at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 
Any interested in playing women's off-campus football, call Jill at 288-0597 or Jennifer at 273­1814. 
Anyone interested in joining the novice crew 
team should attend the meeting on today at 7:30 
p.m. in 117 Cushing. 
Irish Insanity will have an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in Room 304, St. Edward's Hall. All are welcome. 
Anyone who has signed up or is interested in tutoring student-athletes for the Office of Academic Advising for Athletics, there will be an informational meeting tonight at 8 p.m. 
Racquetball players of all skill levels who are interested in joining the Racquetball Club, call x2334 or x2333 and leave a message. 
Hall Athletic Commissioners -Please call the Non­Varsity Office immediately to give them your name, address and phone number. This will get you on the 1990-91 mailing list, enabling you to receive NVA info for your hall. Call 239-5100. 
Hours for Rockne Memorial until Fall Break are: Swimming, Mon.-Fri. 7-9 a.m., noon-6 p.m. and 8­11 p.m., Sat. from 1-6 p.m. and from 7-11 p.m., and Sunday from 1-6 p.m. and 7:30-11 p.m. The Third Floor Weight Room is open Mon-Fri. 3-10:30 
p.m. and Sat.-Sun. noon-9 p.m. All other facilities are open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-11 p.m. and Sat-Sun. 10 
a.m. -11 p.m. Family hours are Sundays from 2-5 p.m. 
•
:
: 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 

CROSSWORD 
Wednesday, September 5, 1990 ACROSS 28 Took a nap 57 Mussorgsky's 
mountain?
Last Day for Class Changes. 32 British gun 
1 Cousin of grits 58 Obtains33 Criticize5 June 6, 1944 59 Cagney's
3:30 pm "A Most Dangerous Woman," a one-woman 9Graf-36 Apt to be fond 
partner on TVof rebel leader? 
play on the philosophy of Emma Goldman performed by 13 Kind of surgeon 
60-ofCapri
38 Work unit 

Michele Colopy. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored 14 Cleveland's 
61 "L' -.c'est39 Newspaper
by University Libraries/Friends of the Library. Free and lake moi"
notice, for short 

open to the public. 15 "lphigenia at 62 Restrainer 
-":Euripides 41 Pinch-hitters for 63 Comics' Harold 
parents16 Educ. inst. 

64 Function
4 pm Workshop, "How to Write an Effective Resume," 17 Craving 43 Hide by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director of Career And 18 Climbing vine 45 Below Placement Services. Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor 49 Acid neutralizer DOWN
19 Sign up LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and talk-show host 50 Got 1 German prison 
Placement Services. at town dump? 
53 Marechal -, camp 21 Sympathetic yellow climbing 2 Part of many a 
sorrow rose 
~ pm Movie, "The General." Annenberg Auditorium, 22 Capital of South mall 
54 Exhilarated 3 Less thoughtful 
Smte Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Australia 
dancer in health 4ltinerant

Communication and Theatre. 
23 Called forth routine? 
merchant 26 Yankee catcher 55 Crime fighter's 
5 Area of India's 27 Nobility tactic 
capital
7 pm Movie, "Nobody Listened." Room 101, Law 
6 Celtic priest 
School. Sponsored by the Cuban-American Union of 
7 Bride's path 
Student Advocates. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Still 9Would-be 
9 pm Movie, "Citizen Kane." Annenberg Auditorium, spouses Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame 10 Be Petruchio's Communication and Theatre. bride just to 
appease? 11 German article 12 Ethnic suffix 15 Vigorous 
MENUS 20 Type of wall covering 21 Carolina river 
Notre Dame 
24 Historic Hungarian city 
Top Round of Beef 

25 Veteran
Baked Sole w!Rice Dressing 
Chinese leader 
Stuffed Shells 

27 Bombard 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Chronicle Features 
by Universal Pres. Syndicate 
II· 


"Now stay calm ... Let's hear what they said to Bill." "Through the hoop, Bob! Through the hoop!" 
BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

..~ IF I GET 1-\0ME fl..\ 
3:CX), I S\-biJLD BE f\BLE. 
m 'N/l..TC\-1 If SIRNG\.\T 1\U.. 
10:3:), RIG\-\T? 
I ROO i\1t>.T TJ.\E I\~E.Rf>G t. tl\0\'1\ SMS S\-\E 
\J.\~, ~1
w 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


29 Flower part 30 Steinbeck character 31 Beat a bridge contract 33Sub­(secretly) 
34 Earliest victim 
35 Choose Mr. Charles at an outing? 37 Von Stroheim of the movies 40 Prospective worker 
SPELUNKER 

42 Tighter fitting 
44 "-Written in a Country Churchyard" 
46"-BeYou and Me," by Marla Thomas 
47 Fee for building use 
48 Hymn start 50 Part of a cycle 51 Moon valley 52 Utah city 55 Stallone's 
nickname 56 Chinese philosophy 57 Small part 

Sports
page 16 Wednesday, September 5, 1990 
Smith ready to contribute at Irish receiver spot 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

A young, inexperienced Notre Dame receiving corps is looking for an upperclassman to take the lead in the new, diversified attack which will feature a more prominent passing game. 
Junior split end Tony Smith just might be the man the Irish are looking for. 
"On our team, at every posi­tion, the upperclassmen take over the leadership," Smith says. "Rocket (flanker Raghib Ismail) and I are the only up­perclassmen at this position that have played consistently, 
so it's up to us to do the job." Smith's leadership has not gone unnoticed. 
"Tony's practice habits have improved 100 percent since this spring," says Skip Holtz, who coaches the receivers for the Irish. "He is in a position now to become a leader of this group." 
Smith's performance this fall has been a pleasant surprise for the Irish after what Holtz said was a lackluster spring. The 6-2, 181-pound native of Gary, Ind. explains that his shortcomings in the spring were the result of a lack of motivation. 
"In the spring, there is no 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Notre Dame All-American Todd Lyght leads this year's candidates for the Jim Thorpe Award, given annually to the nation's top collegiate defensive back. 

show everybody what I can do and not hold anything back," Smith says. 
Now Smith finds himself the frontrunner in the race for a starting split end position. Freshman Lake Dawson has also had an excellent fall, but he has yet to play a college game. The more experienced Smith, on the other hand, can boast of a resume which in­cludes a crucial 27 -yard recep­tion in the 1990 Orange Bowl against Colorado which helped set up Notre Dame's first score. 
Still, Holtz says Smith will have to play well to hold on to the starting spot. 
"Tony has been working with the first group this fall, but Lake Dawson has had a great fall as well, and he is going to push Tony," Holtz says. "Tony will have to continue to fight for the position, and that's good, because competition is the best thing a coach can have at any position." 
Smith does not worry too much about where he stands on the depth chart, though. He has all the necessary tools to be a good receiver. As a high school track star he ran the 110-meter high hurdles in 14.35 seconds, 
see SMITH/ page 14 

Lyght leads Thorpe hopefuls 
Notre Dame defensive back considered best in nation 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Notre Dame doesn't open its 1990 football season for an­other week and a half, but al­ready senior cornerback Todd Lyght is being touted by sportswriters and coaches around the country as the top candidate for this year's Jim Thorpe Award, given annually to the best defensive back in the nation. 
One of three finalists for the title last year, Lyght joins a number of powerful hitters that are inspiring fear in wide re­ceivers everywhere, preventing touchdowns by treating the backfield like their own per­sonal property. 
Cornerbacks and safeties ev­erywhere are tougher than ever this year and should give Lyght a little competition for the award, presented since 1986 by the Jim Thorpe Athletic Club in Oklahoma City and named for former Carlisle standout Jim Thorpe, a native Oklahoma In­dian. 
The All-American Lyght, named by many as the best player in college football and a definite first-round draft pick next spring, will anchor an otherwise inexperienced Irish defensive backfield. His eight 
New Michigan coach plans for ND 
BY GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
New Michigan coach Gary Moeller could probably pick a better way to open his colle­giate career than against sec­ond-ranked Notre Dame in the first game of the season for both teams. 
"I'd like to have one game under our belts but that won't happen," Moeller said during Tuesday's Big Ten teleconfer­ence. "I would rather open with someone other than Notre Dame to let some of our younger kids get their feet on the ground." 
The Irish and Wolverines will meet at 8 p.m. Sept. 15 in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish have won the past three meetings against the Wolverines. 
Moeller, a Michigan assistant from 1969-76 and again from 1980-89, succeeded the le­gendary Bo Schembechler, who retired last year after compiling a career mark of 234-65-8. Moeller was the head coach at Illinois from 1977-79 and had a 6-24-3 mark before returning two-a-day practices today and classes begin Thursday. 
to Michigan.  
The  Wolverines  will  finish  
r -~------------­ •  

"We've got a long way to go to be a good football team," Moeller said. "The key to us getting a good start is to get our young kids playing well." 
Elvis Grbac, who finished the 1989 Notre Dame game after Michael Taylor was injured, will be the quarterback. He com­pleted 73 of 116 passes last season for 824 yards and 8 touchdowns. 
The strength of the Wolverine offense should be the line, where five veterans return. Vet­erans returning include center Steve Everitt, guards Matt El­liott and Dave Dingman, and tackles Greg Skrepenak and Tom Dohring. 
"We should have a solid, vet­eran offensive line," Moeller said. 
That line might be one of the keys if Michigan is to win its third consecutive Big Ten championship. 
Former Notre Dame defen­sive coordbator and new Wis­consin hea,\ coach Barry Al­varez will c, uen his collegiate career Saturl ay when the Bad­gers host California. Alvarez expects more than 60,000 fans in Camp Randall Stadium for the opener. 
''I'm very anxious to get on the field in front of the crowd and get it rolling," Alvarez said. "One of the goals of this staff was to bring respect to this program." 
The Badgers were 2-9 last season, including 1-7 in the Big Ten, but they have 16 starters returning. Another advantage for Alvarez is that seven of the 
11  games  will  be  played  at  
home.  
Alvarez  has  invited  Notre  

Dame coach Lou Holtz to the opener, but Holtz is unsure if he will attend. Holtz did say that his former mentor, le­gendary Ohio State coach Woody Hayes, came to his opener at William and Mary in 1969. . 
A 1949 dark blue Chevrolet Coupe owned by Holtz sold for $7,000 in a classic car auction in Auburn, Ind., over the Labor. Day weekend. 
The car was purchased by Burl Keener, a Fort Wayne businessman. 
The Post-Season Awards 
Part Two of Four 

interceptions in 1989 are espe­cially impressive considering that quarterbacks usually avoided throwing anywhere near Lyght's territory. In Notre Dame's game versus Stanford, the Cardinals threw 68 passes against the Irish, but only two to Lyght's side of the field. 
A starter since his freshman year, the 6-1, 184-pound senior combines speed (he runs the 40 in 4.40) and aggressive tackling to lead the Irish defense. Lyght played more minutes last sea­son than any other defensive player and will be relied upon to protect the Irish endzone. 
The Irish will test Lyght's No. 1 opponent early in the year when they face Michigan's Tripp Welborne. Leading what might be the nation's best sec­ondary, the 6-0, 221-pound safety had 80 tackles and three interceptions last year, even though offensive coordinators usually stayed away from him in the same way they did Lyght. 
Although Welborne arrived at Michigan hoping to play wide receiver, a hard-hitting fresh­man campaign that included more tackles (seven) than re­ceptions (two) convinced coaches that he would make a better defensive back. Since then, the senior has relied on his speed (he also returned 32 punts for the Wolverines in 1989, for a 9.3 yard average) and tenacity to become a con­sensus All-American last sea­son. 
Pittburgh's Louis Riddick is another top candidate. The 6-3 senior will move f'rom free to strong safety this year after tallying 63 tackles as a junior. 
Although Riddick slimmed down in the off-season from 220 to 212 pounds, the Aca­demic All-American can bench press close to 400 pounds and is known for his exemplary work ethic. 
Another safety, Ken Swilling of Georgia Tech, has been called a new breed of defensive back. While the junior's 6-3, 238-pound frame seems more suited to play linebacker, Swill­ing enjoys using his size and 4.5 speed to intimidate even the bravest of receivers. 
As a sophomore, Swillings ranked third on the team in tackles and intercepted six 
see THORPE I page 13 

Fans show spirit by sitting out for tickets 
His name is Bob Wincer, but his friends know him as Squirrel, or Brown-Eyed Squirrel. He got his nick­name when he imitated a certain cam­
0 pus rodent by sitting in a tree, almost stoically, for a long period of time at a Dillon Pep-Rally. 
As it turns out, Squirrel is quite ~~~~ good at sitting out for a long period or time and hardly moving. He spends a Scott Brutocao good deal of time in his room, sitting Irish Items on the floor and doing his homework while watching "Wonder Years" or some such show on television. He could spend hours there. If he didn't need to eat, he could spend days. 


Squirrel used this talent for stoicism when he and friend Greg Wong arrived in front of Gate 10 of the JACC last Fri­day morning at 10 a.m. to wait for football tickets to go on sale. We're not talking about camping out for one night. Try three nights. 
"Last year it was wild," said Squirrel Sunday night, "but this year it seemed to mellow out a bit." 
As it turns out, Squirrel and Wong have camped out for football tickets every year at Notre Dame, and in their final year as students they wanted to make sure they were first in line. 
·And those lines, which numbered more than 200 persons in the wee hours of Monday morning, are one of the most 
see ITEMS I page 13 





