

-----~~-~-~--­
VOL. XXIII NO 84 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1990 
Blachman: Tolerance does not mean democracy for Central America 
AP Photo 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gorbachev's motions generate controversy 
MOSCOW (AP) -Communist Party leaders added an unex­pected third day to their pivotal meeting Tuesday and sent Mikhail Gorbachev back to the drawing board to fill in holes in his blueprint for ending the party's monopoly on power. 
The extension of the party session. which was supposed to end Tuesday, was a clear sign of the controversy generated by Gorbachev's proposals to re­vamp the country's political structure. 
It sharply contrasted with previous sessions, when the Cnntral Committee automati­cally approvnd policies that had been worknd out at higher lnvds. 
Cnntral Committee sources said most spnakers agreed with Gorbachnv's proposal that the party's monopoly on power, en­shrined in thn Soviet Constitu­tion. must end. 
"All unanimously think it has become obsolete. It has no meaning," Central Committee member Vladimir Anishchev told reporters who gathered outside thn Kremlin's Spasky Gate to await news. The session was dosnd to journalists. 
However. partial transcripts 
By JOHN FISCHER 
News Writer 
The increasing tolerance of opposition views in El Salvador and Nicaragua do not neces­sarily imply the presence of democracy in these countries, said Morris Blachman in a lee­tun~ on Tuesday. 
Blachman, assistant director of Foreign Studies at the Uni­versity of South Carolina, spoke on the topic of "Prospects for Democracy in Central America of two days of the session, in which 51 speakers took the floor, indicated that neither radical reformers nor hard-lin­ers were satisfied with Gor­bachev's proposal. 
Delegates said Tuesday night's Central Committee ses­sion was suspended so a com­mission, headed by Gorbachev, could complete changes to his nearly 20-page platform. A Central Committee source quoted Gorbachev as saying that the 60-member commis­sion was only half-finished, even though it met all night Monday. 
He said the meeting would re­sume Wednesday morning. 
Delegates interviewed Monday and Tuesday as they filed out onto Red Square indicated a common objection: the platform contains few specifics. 
"A lot of its points, and this is what has been said by many speakers, need major changes and reinforcement, especially in the direction of stepping up de­cisive action," Leonid Bibin, a non-voting Central Committee member, said in a Soviet TV in­terview Tuesday. 
see PARTY I page 7 


-El Salvador and Nicaragua," in the first of a three-part series of presentations con­cerning the state of Central American Affairs. 
The lecture focued on El Sal­vador and it addressed the three main causes of what Blachman termed "the opening of political space." 
He acknowledged the increase of effective participation of the citizens in their government. This participation can consist of an opposition party, or can take the form of a religious group, labor union, or a peas­ant association. 
Blachman said that greater democracy could be achieved by increasing the role of the public to include more than casting a ballot. 
He recommended the en­dorsement of freedom of speech and freedom of the press by the government, as well as improved journalism to keep the public better informed. 
The accountability of the cur-


Demonstrating for unification 
Demands for the reunification of both Germanys rang out at one of the almost traditional Monday demonstrations in Leipzig, East Germany. Carrying a banner reading, "We Saxons-und Our Aim: A (united) Germany in Peace and Freedom." See story, p. 5. 
rent government in El Salvador is another variable determining the prospects for democracy, Blachman said. With the mili­tary and the oligarchy holding the internal power, the only major entity capable of holding the government accountable for its actions is an external one, the United States. 
Blachman said that this ac­cimntability is not necessarily a strong support for democracy, since the United States provides El Salvador with funds to 
Clashes continue between Christian militias in Beirut 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­Gen. Michel Aoun's soldiers drove rival militiamen from a northern suburb Tuesday and turned their guns on a sur­rounded garrison in an intra­Christian war that has cost !_lundreds of lives in eight days. 
Beirut's largest Christian 
hospital said its morgue had : 
overflowed and the bodies 
would have to be buried in a 
mass grave. 
Voice of Lebanon, a Christian 
radio station, said thousands of people were going hungry in bomb shelters made cold and "Clank because of heavy rain an'tl a power failure caused when shellfire knocked out the main 
power station. 
Police said 38 people were killed and 111 wounded Tues­Vatican, European govern­day. That raised casualties to ments, the United Nations and 315 killed and 1,148 wounded Arab leaders for help in ending since the battle for Christian the fighting. supremacy began Jan. 30 be­"I appeal for your support in tween Aoun's men and the Le­any effort or endeavor I might banese Forces militia led by find myself compelled to take ... Samir Geagea. to end the plight of the Le-
President Elias Hrawi ap­pealed to the superpowers, 
see AOUN I page 7 strengthen its military, and Congress sends mixed signals as to their tolerance of human rights violations, he said. He stated that these mixed signals may have been a factor in the murder of six Jesuit priests two months ago. 

He added, "When the funding is in jeopardy, the oligarchy is willing to negotiate with the United States." 
The third major factor in 
see FREE I page 4 

Gorbachev reaches top of 5-yr. climb 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev's proposal for reforming the Communist Party would be the climax of a five-year squeeze play against elderly hard-liners of the Cen­tral Committee. 
Gorbachev took the helm of the Communist Party in March 1985 and since then has almost completely changed the 12-man Politburo, which handles every­day business. But he still cannot count on a majority on the 249­member Central Committee, the one body with the power to fire 
him. 
To push through radical changes, such as Monday's call for the party to give up its monopoly on power, Gorbachev needs Central Committee mem­bers who "pulse with fresh young blood," as the newspaper Argumenti i Fakti put it this week. 
The newspaper, in a scathing indictment of the age and tenure of the party leadership, noted that 61 percent of the Central Committee members were past retirement age, and some have been in positions of 
see CLIMAX I page 4 
AP 


------------~--~----~­
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Soviet reforms warrant cuts in U.S. sp.ending 
During the past two days, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) has been in special session, at the request of Soviet 


President Mikhail Matt Gallagher 
Gorbachev. The ses-Exec. News Editor 
sion was extended 

through today be---------­
cause the party 
leadership was unable 

to resolve the issues Gorbachev brought up. 
Foremost among these was Gorbachev's 
proposal that the CPSU give up its 
monopoly of power. which is granted under 
Article 106 of the Constitution of the 
U.S.S.H. 

Although Gorbachev is meeting resistance 
from conservatives who fear the change and 
from liberals who believe the change is not 
rapid enough, it is likely that he will succeed 
in getting the party reforms he desires. The 
dramatic change sweeping through Eastern 
Europe obviously has a great impact on the 
West. Perhaps its most important impact is 
the end of the Cold War. 

A massive Soviet invasion of Western Europe no longer seems likely. With the crumbling of communist governments, the Warsaw Pact (the communist equivalent of NATO) is a shadow of its former self. Sev­eral countries have asked the U.S.S.R. to withdraw its troops. If war were to come to Europe, it is a virtual certainty that the Soviets would have no allies willing to sup­port a Soviet invasion of Western Europe. . 
All this leads to an important domestic political issue for the United States. With the reduced threat in Europe, massive World War 11-style tank battles, for which our forces are structured. will be unlikely. Instead, American forces will face low-in­tensity connicts, such as in Panama or other Third World countries, and a restruc­turing will be necessary. 
The reduced international tension will also allow us to rnduce the defense budget. The United States, however, must be careful about these reductions. First, we must not give in to large-scale disarmament. No one is certain how long Gorbachev or like­minded reformers will last, in the face of conservative opposition. The United States must be able to defend itself if the Soviets' attitude changes. 
Second, the so-called "peace dividend" is nonexistent. All money saved from the de­fense budget must be applied toward reduc­ing the budget defidt. It is interesting that many of those who, three or four years ago, were blaming the deficit on swollen military expenditures, are the same people who wish to spend the savings from a reduced defense budget. If the budget deficit was caused, in part, by large defense expenditures, let's use the savings from defense to reduce the budget deficit. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Sports  News  Systems  
Greg Guffey  John O'Brien  Mark Sloan  
Chris Cooney  Monica Yant  Tim Quinn  
Production  Accent  Sports Wednesday  
Chris Labaree  Paige A. Smoron  Molly Mahoney  
Lisa Eaton  Barbara Bryn  
Graphics  
VIewpoint  Ad Design  Bradford J. Boehm  
Kathleen Walsh  Laura Rossi  
Becky Pichler  Mindy Breen  
Lisa Eaton  Kristie Rolke  
Shannon Roach  
Shiela Jones  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ii published Monday through FridB¥ except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
--~-----~~-­

The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 7. Lines show high temperatures. 
30 
Yesterday's high: 49 Yesterday's low: 29 Nation's high: 80 (Miami, Fla. and Presidio, Texas) Nation's low: -26 (Milo, Maine) 
Forecast: Becoming 
mostly sunny today. 
Highs in the middle 40s. 
Fair tonight. Lows in the 
lower 30s. Sunny and 
mild Thursday morning, 
then increasing cloudi­
ness in the afternoon. 
Highs from the upper 40s 
to around 50. 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 


rx>Cl
®© 
~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Interim President lon lliescu registered Romania's Jesse Jackson said that South African President former ruling National Salvation Front on Tuesday to run F.W. de Klerk's lifting of a ban on the African National in the May 20 elections, and a top aide said Iliescu will be Congress is a sign of hope for the nation's black majority.its presidential candidate. The Front, unelected and ruling The lifting of bans on the ANC and some 60 oppositionby decree since longtime Communist dictator Nicolae groups, announced by de Klerk on Friday, will help paveCeausescu was toppled and executed in December, is con­the way toward "a new South Africa," Jackson said in sidered the front-runner in the race against 29 political Lusaka. However, Forign Minister Pik Botha complained parties. that Jackson, a former candidate for the Democratic 
presidential nomination, alternates his statements on 
sanctions depending on his audience. 
NATIONAL 

The three major Republican fund-raising com-Twelve months of school are in storn for students mittees reaped more than $80 million in 1989 and entered in Los Angeles. Beginning in July 1991. all 646 schools in this election year with more than $14 million on hand, the Los Angeles Unified School District will go on a year­nearly triple the combined war chest of their Democratic round schedule; 102 Los Angeles schools alrnady operate counterparts, the Federal Election Commission said year-round. The plan will about double the number of' Tuesday. The Democratic National Committee and t:JC U.S. schools on year-round schedules and provide an irn­party's separate House and Senate campaign arms raised petus for other districts to adopt such plans, proponents and spent more than $19 million in 1989. said. The measure is intended to ease severe school ovf~r­
crowding in the 594,802-student Los Angeles district, second in size only to New York City's district. 
"Instead of breast of duck, we're serving cheddar­stuffed meatloaf," said Brad Grill, manager of the up­scale Harvest restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., one of President Bush told army troops at a Calif. many restauranteurs who are scaling back their prices to desert training exercise Tuesday that "uncertainties and lure the cautious customers of the '90s, who have become dangers" in the world justify increased military spending, as concerned about their wallets as they are about their despite congressional criticism that his plans ignore the waistlines. People have leaner budgets and baby boomers dismantling of the Communist empire. A eontirwnt away,who are starting their own families are eating out less, Rep. Les Aspin of Wisconsin, the Democratic chairman of said an editor at Nation's Restaurant News. the !louse Armed Services Committee. kept up thn pres­
sure for changes, saying the administration's $292.1 bil­lion defense budget fails "to match the new political reali­ties at home or abroad." 
OF INTEREST 
Activities Night II will be held tonight from 7-8 p.m. Actors and actresses of all makes and models are in llaggar Parlor, Saint Mary's. The event is sponsored needed for Saint Mary's directing projects. Minimal time by Saint Mary's Student Government. commitment. All skill levels are fine. Open auditions will 
be at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse 7:45-10:30 pm, Wed.,
AIDS Awareness Night is tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Feb. 7. Auditions will continue 7-8 pm, Thursday, Feb. 8, Theodore's. The ND/SMC student body will receive the Room 16 Regina Hall S.M.C. most current information about AIDS from a six-member panel. The event is sponsored by the Minority Pre-profes­sional Club, Pre-Professional Society, and Pugwash. 
MARKET UPDATE ALMANACINDIANA 
Closings for February 6, 1990 
On February 7: 

Teenage crime sleuths helped Lawrence­burg authorities recover clothing and other ma­e In 1904: A fire began interials believed used in a mother-son bank rob­Baltimore that raged for about
Volume in shares

bery. Although police arrested 20-year old Don­30 hours and destroyed moreald Pickett and his mother, Mona, 47, for the Jan. 134.07 Million than 1,500 buildings. 
26 robbery, they were still seeking crucial evi­
e In 1964: Thousands of
dence. That's when the club of eighth graders in­screaming. fans welcomed theterested in law enforcement arrived. The teens, Beatles at New York's John F.
excused from school Monday to take part in the 
{7 1.02 

Kennedy International Airportsearch, were ecstatic when their assistance led to as the "Fab Four" began their
S&P Composite IL 329.68 v 2.17
the discovery. 
first U.S. tour. 
Dow Jones Industrials 

e In 1971: Women in Switzer­
An Indiana State University student, who 
2606.31 {716.21 

land won the right to vote. idence hall, was expected to undergo surgery 
was accidentally shot Monday at a university res­e In 1974: The island nation
Precious Metals 

Tuesday on his right hand, school officials said. 
of Grenada won independence
Gold {7 $1.10to$421.30/oz.

Dale Hartley, 20, of Paris, Ill., plans no legal ac­
from Britain. tion against his roommate, Jl.llhn Tyler of Fort Silver.(/ 2.3¢ to $5.33/ oz. 
e In 1986: Haiti's President­Wayne, according to Sandy Klftle, Indiana State 
for-Life, Jean-Claude Duvalier,
Source: AP
News· Service news editor. 
fled his country, ending 28 years of his family's rule. 
NYSE Index 182.33 


-~-~---~--·-----------------··--~--~-~-~-~ ---~-~---~~------~------~----~---, 
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 The Observer 

HPC asked to promote SafeWalk 
By PATRICK HEALY News Writer 
Gina Mahoney, representing the new SafeWalk program at the !!all President's Council's Tuesday meeting, asked HPC to encourage use of the service and help make the service "socially acceptable." 
Mahoney, a member of stu­dent government, stated that many students felt uneasy about calling for the service, and encouraged the presidents to assist in alleviating these feelings in their dorms. 
When asked how a student could get an escort from a parking lot. Mahoney advised for students to drive to a secu­rity gate where an escort could be contacted. She stated that escorts should arrive approxi­mately five to ten minutes after calling. 
Holy Cross President Pete 
LaFleur announced the "Holy 
Cross Hog Bowl." a campus­
wide section football tourna­
ment for charity. The winner of 
the sin elimination tourna­ment will receive a $100 dinner gift certificate to the restaurant of its choice. 

Although there is a $30 entry fee, 100 percent of the money raised will go to the local homelesss shelter. Students are encouraged to attend the finals on February 11, as there will be representatives from the varsity 
football  team  as  well  as  re­ 
freshments.  
Representatives  of St.  Ed­ 

ward's and Farley announced a celebrity auction to be held on February 13. 
The auction will feature fa­miliar names around campus such as Father Malloy, Chris Zorich, and Chuck Freeby, and will take place at Theodore's from 9p.m.-1a.m. The highest bidder will get to spend two hours with their celebrity. 
A raffle will also be held at 
the event, with dinners for two at various restaurants for the winners. 
In other campus social news, Brian O'Fallon from St. Ed­ward's announced the 17th An­nual Bonehead Bowl, which he described as part quiz bowl but mostly a game show. He called it a "fun event," with no real academic purpose. 
The single elimination tour­nament, consisting of teams of four, will be held from Febru­ary 21st to the 24th. There will be a $5 entry fee, with the win­ning team receiving the cash prize. 
Mike Carrigan announced that the Social Studies Center will be distributing a question­naire concerning SYRs. He said feedback from students is needed, and that they could be very persuasive if enough ques­tionnaires are returned. 
Rich Daly from the Alumni Association thanked the Council for their assistance with the Holidity Host Program last November. He said that the program went better than ex­pected and was "very happy with the results." 
Daly spoke of program planned for Easter break in which students and local chil­dren can participate Easter egg hunt. 

s-~ ~ 
:il 

\1 8 SEE CfiROSO LIVE lOPM FRIDAY rtiGtiT fiT 

LAST CHANCE TO ORDER YOUR 
1990 ORANGE BOWL PROGRAMS 
COLLECTOR'S EDITION 
Send $7.00, check or money order, to: 
Touchdown Publications College Bowl Official Programs PO. Box B9 Trenton, NJ 08651 
Prices include shipping and handling. Quantities are limited. 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTSManager Controller Art Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 
page 3 

Going to California 
President Bush, pictured here with National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft before leaving Washington for a three day trip, watched U.S. military wargames in California Tuesday. Bush will also visit Nebraska and Ohio. 
TRACY SULLIVAN 
Hfo\PPV 2~ l8 ~ lRffH[D)fo\V SlUJlNSH~lNHE ~ 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, KERRY JOHN AND MIKE 
So many choices to make. So many things to consider. Is it worth the effort? Will I be happy? Will I be fulfilled? 
Fulfillment comes with doing what you love and doing it well... Using your tal­ents in an atmosphere where personal growth is encouraged. 
The Paulists can offer you a life. A life of commitment to people. Helping the lost and alienated find a spiritual home. Us­ing radio, television, film and other contem­porary means to spread the Gospel. Working with other Christians for unity and seeking a deeper understanding with other world religions. 
If you're looking for 1/fe...not just a career. choose the Paulists. For more lnfonnation caii1-8CJ0.235-3456. 


Choose 
a 
life... 


not justa careel 

Or write, Father John F. Duffy, C.S.P., Paulist Fathers Vocation Office 415 West 59th Street. New York, NY 10019 


CMI TOUR INCLUDES: eRound trip transportation on beautiful, modern highway coaches  $154.00 No Transportation  
eEight Florida days/seven endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels. located right on the Daytona Beach strip. Your hotel has a beautiful pool, sun deck, air conditioned rooms, color TV and a nice long stretch of beach.  
eA full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day.  
eA full list of pre·arranged discounts to save you money in Daytona Beach.  
eOptional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, party cruises. etc.  
Last year over 160 ND/SMC students went with us.  
AND SIGN UP  
LAST CHAHCE  
8pm Wed. Feb.7 LaFortune Montgomery  
 


r---------------------------------------------------~----~--------------------------------------------------------~---­
page 4 

Climax 
continued from page 1 

power almost since Josef Stalin's time. Many were ap­pointed only to qualify for "personal pensions" -lavish rntirnment benefits reserved for the nation's elite, the article found. 
"The party hardly has the right, having chosen such a Central Committee, to expect dynamism, revolutionary en­ergy, flexibility and extraordi­nary thinking," the article con­cluded. 
Gorbachev's proposal for se­cret, multicandidate elections of delegates to the party congress, which elects the Cen­tral Committee, would result in replaeing all but perhaps 10 percent of the current mem­bers, estimated Justis Paletskis, ideology secretary for the breakaway Lithuanian Com­munist Party. 
Paletskis is one of hundreds of progressive party leaders in­vited to attend and speak at 
Notre Dame and I


r-----------­
1 Saint Mary's: I 
II II 
Its SYR time I again... I 1 Give your date a I 1 lasting memento I I from 
I ~ 1 
t$111;;,.I 
I 
with this coupon

I 
receive 20% off 

I 
all corsages and

I 
I boutonnieres 
CMI Campus Marketing, Inc. 
presents 
Jeff Burgfechtels 2nd Annual Beach Party 
at 
DAYTONA BEACH 
$239 complete 

this week's crucial Central Committee meeting. Guests cannot vote on the final docu­ment, but Paletskis said he is certain the election proposal will be approved. While Gorbachev is changing the rules of the game at the top, pressure from rank-and­file communists and non-party members alike is providing the bottom jaw of the vise. High-ranking local party offi­cials were embarrassed in na­tional elections last year, when voters were given a choice for the first time in decades. A re­peat performance is likely this spring when elections for local and republic governing councils are held. 
In recent weeks local commu­nist leaders also have been fac­ing a new phenomenon: large­scale protests that have forced them to quit their posts. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
Free 
continued from page 1 

possible democratization, ac­cording. to Blachman, is the need for the existing govern­ment to tolerate conflicting ideas instead of persecuting dissidents. "They must have not only a tolerance of dissent, but also a celebration of it," he said. 
These three elements are the major contributors, according to Blachman, to democracy, which he defined as, " ... a par­ticipatory kind of relationship existing between the leadership of a society and its citizens. 
"In a democracy, informed, educated citizens can partici­pate actively and effectively in making decisions about their public lives." He added that this could best be achieved by arriv-
Summer Service Projects 
Summer Service Projects APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEB. 7 
$1400.00 Scholarship 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer In cities of Alumni Clubs all over the u.s. 
Information meeting: Feb. 7, 7 PM Center for Social Concerns 



ing at a generul consensus on who is a citizen and can thus participate in the government, and which aspects of the citi­zens' lives the government can legislate. 
Though it may appear that El Salvador is moving toward democracy, Blachman warned that much of the perceived in­crease in political openness was merely a channeling of the gov­ernment's overt repression into forms that appear more ac­ceptable to outside observers. 
Blachman added that the government no longer kills dis­sidents or protestors outright, but it still oppresses through legislation and propaganda. The instances in which protestors are killed occur when the government has de­clared a war zone, thus making it more internationally accept­

able to kill these people, he said. 
Blachman concluded with 
three observations stemming 
from his opinions of democracy 
in Central America. He said, 
"...it is a sham to call El Sal­
vador a democracy." 

He added the observation 
that the greatest indication of 
democratic tendencies is that 
the "opening of political space" 
that occurred a decade ago has 
caused people to be more will­
ing to "put their lives on the 
line" for their ideals. 

He warned that, "Neither demilitarization nor decentral­ization equate to democracy." 
The next lecture on Central America will be concerning the role of the Catholic Church in this area, to be held on Febru­ary 8, followed by a lecture on United States foreign policy on February 14. Both lectures will be held at 4 p.m. in the Center of Social Concerns. 
~~~~--------~~-----~--------------.., 
--------~------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
Correction 
Several lines from the last paragraph of an article on the abortion debate at Theodore's which appeared in Tuesday's Observer were accidently omitted. It should have n=Jad: 
She examined the role of the pro-life woman and crit­icized pro-choice advocates such as Faye Wattleton, president of Planned Parent­hood Federation of America. "Pro-abortion feminists don't want women to be sec­ond-class citizens... but somewhere along the way an sense of perspective is lost." 
in U.S.A. 

The Observer page5 
Baker: NATO would accept unified Germany 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -Secretary of State James Baker, trying to guide the drive to German reunification, regis­tered his support Tuesday for a plan that would keep the coun­try in NATO but bar Western troops from moving into what is now East Germany. 
The propos~. advanced by West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher last week, also would allow Soviet troops to remain in the eastern region -at least at the outset. 
A senior U.S. official familiar with Baker's thinking said the move to reunification had ac­celerated to the point that the 
t ~ :3~1 08(±).. 118( 8) t ~ ~ :WASHINGTON D.C. 
two Germanies are likely to be­gin a process of economic, po­litical and legal integration after East Germany holds na­tional elections March 18. 
"The process of unification is taking place on the ground right now, and will continue to take place at a quick pace," said the senior official, travel­ing aboard Baker's plane and commenting only on condition he not be named. 
Later, in a speech scheduled for delivery WPdnesday at Charles University, Baker pro­posed that the United States, Canada, the Soviet Union and 32 European nations send ob­server delegations to eastern and central Europe to ensure that the emerging democracies hold elections that genuinely represent their people. 
In his text, Baker also voiced support for Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's call for a summit of the 35 nations later in the year, and proposed it establish free elections as a human right. 
He said the Soviet leadership apparently had agreed that "legitimacy, not force, is the only way to ensure European stability." 
Baker has publicly lent sup-

GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road • Mishawaka, IN 255-5525 
~------------y------------~
: Dinner for 2 : Sundae : : $899 sa;2 99¢
e~~er: : 
I For I I 
I Pick any two Gourmet Sandwiches, I Buy any size sundae and I I two Garden _Salads, plus yQur choice of I receive a second one of the II French Fnes or Omon R1ngs and 2 1 · f 99 1 
Mini-Sundae~. same stze or •
L--~!!.~~! ~.!'~!'!.. _l_-f.!!l!.e.! ~~ !~!.-J 


Wednesday, February 7, 1990

•\ 
__________'!_­
See your most popular software in action! Representatives from: 
i .. 

OZenith Data Systems i 
OWordperfect OMicrosoft OCad (T.B .A.) 

ilm~m-·'...will be on hand to answer your questions.! ·•···.· •..··. 
~~~~ 



Wednesday February 7th I 0:00am-3:00pm 
LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
R e f r e s h m e n t s s n a c k s D 0 0 r p r I• z e s G I• v e A w a y s 
data 



_,__2NI'N 
systems 
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 The Observer 

Party 
continued from page 1 
Bibin said he and others want the platform to stress that the party must remain united. The party's unity has been threat­ened in recent months by a breakaway of the party in Lithuania and by proposals by Moscow radicals for formal factions. 
Gorbachev, as he has done on so many issues. has placed himself in the middle, trying to forge compromises. 
Still, the Soviet leader's plat­form has yielded to the de­mands of political reformers ­including the thousands of peo­ple who gathered near the Kremlin wall Sunday -by re­moving the party's monopoly and advancing to this summer a party congress that will be empowered to clear out conser­vatives on the Central Commit­tee. 
Gorbachev is not likely to wa­ter down the platform, for fear of displeasing the increasingly active and consolidated re­formers. But he also must be careful not to antagonize con­servatives, who remain strong in the Central Committee. 
Formally, the Central Com­mittee has the power to replace the party leader. 
Indrek Toome, premier of the Baltic republic of Estonia and a guest at the party meeting, em­phasized the threat from hard­liners. 
keeps 40,000 soldiers and 300 mand. tanks in Lebanon and supports On Tuesday, Hrawi called

Aoun 
Hrawi, whom Parliament Aoun "a mutineer against legit­
continued from page 1 
elected in November as part of imacy" and blamed him for the banesc people and salvagP LP­a peace plan designed to end latest carnage. banon." hP said in telegrams to Lebanon's 15-year-old civil President Bush, Mikhail Gor­war. His statement was seen as a bachcv. Pope John Paul II and threat to intervene militarily. other leaders. Hrawi dismissed Aoun as mil­He would have to call on the 
itary chief, but the general, who Syrians for that because the 
Arab leaders receiving the rejects the peace plan and does 22.000 Moslem troops loyal to telegram includrd President not recognize the president, has him are poorly trained and llafez Assad of Syria, who refused to relinquish his com-equipped. 
~~--... 

WE WANT YOU !! 
If you are looking for a challenge and are dependable, then we are looking for you! 
Come to the Doolev Room in The LaFortune Student Center Th~rsday, Feb 8th, between 4:00pm & 7:00 pm to find out more about these 
jobs! 

LaFortune Building iv[anager Stepan Center Building Manger Information Desk Games Room 0 f /ice Assistant Sound tees 
Or stop by the Information Desk and apply! 
Boston's white blanket 
A skier on Monday enjoys the aftermath of the Northeaster which dumped 6-8 inches of snow in the Boston area. South Bend, how­ever, has enjoyed unseasonably warm weather and an absence of snow. 
We would like to toke this opportunity to announce George's 22nd birthday. Wish him well and tell him he has wonderful parents. Thank you for your support. 
Rita and George 








ICEBERG DEBATES 
ICEBERG DEBAJES ROUND TWO 
Aff at (;race I Aff at Badin Neg Flanner I '\(•g Off-Campus I 
Aff at Knott .-\IT at Sorin Neg Pangborn !\t~g Holy Cross 
This Wednesday, Feb. 7 
AJT at Breen-Phillips AfT at Alumni Neg OfT-Campus II '\eg lloward 
AJT at Farley Aff at Carroll 

Neg Grace II Neg Dillon 

Get out and 
AJT at Cavanaugh Aff at Zahm 

Neg Pasquerilla East 

'\cg Fishnr AfT at Stanford 

support your team
Neg Pasquerilla West 
AJT at Lyons Neg Morrissey AJT at St. Edwards 
Neg Siegfried AJT at Keenan 

A Debate on Drug Legalization 
Neg Lewis 
Aff at Flanner II Neg Walsh 

will be held at a dorm near you. 




Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 7, 1990
page 8 

P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-chief 
Chris Donnelly 
1 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor... .Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor . . .... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor.. ............ Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor... . .. ............... John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bemard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor...... ............ Eric Bailey OTS Director.. ................. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor. .. .......... Christine Gill Controller.............................Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editoriills represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Edit!)r, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Court ruling keeps tenure process fair 
In January, the Supreme Court ruled on a case that will ensure equal opportunity and fairness for tenure candidates at colleges and universities nationwide. 
In the case of University of Pennsylvania v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the court ruled that universities must disclose confidential peer reviews in cases that charge racial or sexual discrimination in the tenure process. 
The University of Pennsylvania argued that academic freedom, granted by the First Amendment, protects its confidential tenure evaluations. But the Supreme Court denied the claim, citing the Equal Employment Opportunity Act M 1972, which requires businesses and other institutions to disclose reasons of employee firings. 
Tenure at academic institutions is akin to employee promotion in the business world. Colleges and universities should be subject to the same employee regulations as other institutions. 
While academic freedom and confidentiality of records arc important, they should not stand in the way of fairness or equal opportunity for tenure­seeking faculty. The Supreme Court's ?ecisi_on acknowledges the need to keep confidential information private, except when it is relevant to a 
discrimination charge. 

To disclose confidential records, a charge of racial or sexual discrimination must be plausible, and the confidential information relevant to the charge. Without a good reason and solid evidence of evaluation based on gender or race, rejected tenure candidates cannot demand release of confidential reviews. 
What the decision means is that professors who evaluate tenure candidates will have to support their r?marks with evidence. While the ruling will not dtrectly affect Notre Dame, it will keep the tenure process fair and the evaluators honest at all universities. 

DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

Safewalk escort service fosters a safer Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
Two major student govern­ment projects have finally come to fruition recently. An exten­sive amount of time and effort have been invested in these pro­jects to insure their success. Now, it is up to you, the Notre Dame community, to become involved and do your part in making these projects a tradi­tion here at the University. 
The Faculty Course Evalua­tions program is designed to give students the opportunity to do something about their aca­demic growth. There may be professors whose teaching style and ability is simply not adequate here at Notre Dame. But as students, what have we been able to do in the past? The Teacher Course Evaluations that we fill out at the end of the semester never seem to be acted upon, especially if a pro­fessor has tenure. 
The Faculty Course Evalua­tions are our way of saying that we want to improve our intellectual pursuits. All data will be tabulated and results will be published in a booklet that will be made available to students and faculty. Students can see how a professor has been judged in the past and use this as a gauge in selecting pro­fessors for the following semester. It is our hope that professors who are judged positively will continue their high level of teaching ability and professors who are judged negatively will improve their level of teaching to meet the needs of students. 
This program cannot be suc­ces~.ful without your support. If we do not get sufficient feed­back, we will not be able to compile a booklet. This is our chance to make a diffen~nce. The forms are easy to fill out and can be placed in the recep­tacles in the lobbies of dorms. The deadline had ben extnnded to Thursday, Feb. 8. 
NO Safewalk is the new stu­dent security escort service. The program began this past Mon­day. It is student initiated and student supported. Students will escort any member of' the Notre Dame community around campus at night. 
The program runs Sunday through Thursday. 7 p.m. to 1 a.m., and Fridays and Satur­days from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. The number to call for an escort is 283-BI.UE. W1~ can no longer assume that Notre Dame is immune to the evils of the world. ND Saf'ewalk is a serviee provided for stud1~nts in order to create a safer campus envi­ronment. 
Mall Breslin Student Body President /Jal'l' Kinkopj 5itudent Body Vice-President 
Feb. 6, 1990 
AIDS discussion relays latest information 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to offer the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student body an opportunity to learn the most current infor­mation about Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. As stu­dents. we are all young and in­volved with our lives and often do not take the time to think about issues unless we are con­fronted with them. AIDS is a complicated, serious topic and discussing this issue may make people uneasy. However, hav­ing the facts about AIDS is so important that no one can af­ford to be ignorant. In addi­tion, medical research is con­
stantly discovering new facts about AIDS. As a consequence, hospital, insurance, and em­ployment policies are continu­ally affected. Hence, we can only stress how important it is for people to keep themselves knowledgeable about AIDS. 
AIDS Awareness Night is tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Theodore's. There, in the space of two hours, you will receive the most current information from professionals in the South Bend area. The panel for this event consists of the following: a doctor who primarily deals with AIDS patients. an AIDS educator, a representative from Campus Ministry, a family member of a person with AIDS, a Notre Dame student who has worked with AIDS patients, and a person with AIDS. The agenda will include a brief speech from each panel member followed by a question and answer period in which you will be able to ask questions anonymously. We encourage Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students from all backgrounds and viewpoints to attend. 
Derrick Benn Chairperson AIDS Education Group 
feb. 4. J99o 
Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
6U/35 fAJHAT 
Yll<£13...

J.J. ANDI 
THifT'5 

I'M YOU terITGO,
HAVeN'T [U.Jp 
mRRJIJt&. 

aKJRJ<JN' ANI?B4M­
0NCBJN7H~ 
5(Mi8{X)'f 

ONn: CWC.I?AY YOUR
tA5rFOIJR~! 
ee-rn;;R. 
PLAN75A/?E
I 
TAK&7H~ 
AU.I?t3AI?.I
)
INITIATIV~. 
\
I 

'Nothing is as dangerous as an ignorant friend; a wise enemy is to be preferred.' 
Jean de Ia Fontaine 
(1621-1695) 



Viewpoint ·­
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 page 9 
Eliminating Eucharist turns Church into circus 

It has recently come to my at­tention that several of Notre Glenn G. FogartyDame's many "theological pro­gressives" have· proposed to With No Apologieseliminate Holy Communion from the opening-year Mass in protest against the alleged sex­place still is an institution that ism of that age-old villain, the bears some relation to what Roman Catholic Church. I, for historically has been known as one, must say that I am in Catholicism. To disprove this complete solidarity with these illusion, it may be necessary to dynamos of liberal theology. go one step further than com­
These courageous individuals plete secularization, and show have seen just where the issues that we are standing on the lie. and have taken a bold step cutting edge of theological pro­in removing a major impedi­gressivism. In short, we must ment to their goal of become a Pagan university. (In throws all papal bulls and en­"liberation" of, well, just about such an environment, I suppose many dorm Masses, to give the fond of variety in religion, and cyclicals into the garbage from 
everything. They have realized singing "Gimme' That Old-Time more for free so, too, should be Notre Dame.
animals room the top of the key, without even 
that to pursue our secular Religion" would take on an en­play. Last year we had "The Year of reading them (so much for goals to their logical conclu­tirely new meaning.) A seal on a platform could try Cultural Diversity." Why not open-mindedness). Another 
-
sion, we must rid ourselves As an admirer of pagan an­juggling chalices from its nose, declare next year the "Year of game would be called completely of the last vestiges tiquity, and a big fan of liberal and an elephant could conse­Religious Diversity?" Each "Eucharistic Hopscotch"of that narrow-minded, me­theology, I feel qualified to of­crate the "sacrificial" peanut. dorm chapel could be converted (otherwise known as "Hop on dieval, obscurantist religion fer several concrete proposals Cotton candy would be substi­into a different pagan temple, the Host"), in which the theolo­known as Roman Catholicism, which will expedite the tuted for the host, since I dare with a special emphasis on gian tries to show as much dis­and sweep that similarly re­progress of a trend well under­say the candy tastes better than Buddhism and Hinduism, since respect as possible to the Body
pressive fellow, God, into the way, as evidenced by our something which is oftentimes those two "traditions" seem to of Christ without missing a 
dustbin of history. First goes who so coura­portrayed here as a mere sym­to square. As the disrespect has
friends have appeal liberal theolo­
our Communion, then the priest­geously proposed to get rid of bol. (In lieu of the animals, the gians a great deal. We could already been shown, howeve_r, I hood, and voila!-no more the Body and Blood of Christ. celebrant could do whatever he rename the woman on the wonder whether the game is Church! To accomplish this First, we might do well to damn well pleased, since that is Dome "Athena" for good mea­necessary. Finally, there's the wonderful feat at Notre Dame form several committees to the same thing as a circus.) Our sure. (Maybe this won't be nec­ever-popular "Pope-Bashing."will not prove to be very diffi­deal with issues of the gravest theological progressives essary, though, since our This is especially fun for a lib­
cult, since the university's self­importance. One could be the doubtless would be able to cre­"comparative religion" courses eral theologian, since it enables styled theological elite has been "Committee for Liturgical Inno­ate even more ludicrous litur­do little if anything to establish him to get his picture in Time 
heading in that direction for vation." This group would be gies. Christianity's truth.) or Newsweek. 
quite some time. responsible for cooking up fun Another potential group is Moreover, during the French Nevertheless, NO suffers new versions of, well, if not the "Committee to Invite Rebel Revolution, Robespierre and the Yes, indeed, these are but a 
from a handicap that may quite the Mass, fun new ver­
Theologians to Campus Just gang turned Notre Dame few of the glorious thingsjeopardize its current goal of sions of something. For the Heck of It." Actually, I Cathedral into the "Temple of which could happen under the becoming a completely secular­Being rather fond of the tra­doubt whether a formal group Reason." Since the university guidance of our courageous
ized university, one which ditional "Circus Lunch" at the would be necessary to accom­has repeatedly shown where its liberal theology friends. Once places much more value on dining halls, I thought it might plish this task, given that Hugh true allegiance lies in terms of Communion goes, who knows 
sheer academic freedom than it be interesting to create a Hefner's favorite theologian, theology, it might be fun what comes next?
to 

does on teaching the truths of "Circus Liturgy," which would Charles Curran, has been here turn Sacred Heart, while it is 
Catholicism. This handicap is require the celebrant to dress time and time again, teaching undergoing renovations, into Glenn G. Fogarty is a junior the fact that many people in the as a clown. The audience would us about our savior, Dr. Ruth. the "Temple of Academic Free­history/ALPA major and is a nation at large believe that this sit on the floor, like they do in The ancient world was very dom," with regular showings of regular Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS

Waste reduction challenges us to change does not work or bec.:umes Drug legalization viewed as immoral -­
obsolescent. 
Dear Editor: are deadly, mind-bending sub­
This is where source reduc­
By Jeffrey Bray 
stances that affect a person'stion is applicable. We must Should drugs be legalized? 
change our current throw-away One might as easily ask if mur­physical, mental, emotional, 
habits and encourage manufac­der, indeed genocide, should be and social faculties, whetherOver the past year Notre these drugs are in pure doses
turers and producers of goods legal.
Dame, has een the success of that excess packaging and dis­Rick Acker (The Observer, or not. Also, amounts of alco­its initial attempt at helping the Jan. 30) proposes that since hol are currently regulated, and 
not desirable

environment through the 
posability are 
deaths are still caused by over­qualities in the things that we drug laws are ineffective and aHECYCLIN' IRISH Program. 
buy. What can we do to change profit could be made from reg­doses.
This project has prevented ulated, legalized drug trade, Secondly, the ineffectiveness countless aluminum and steel treatment, are effective means our habits? Think when we drugs should be legalized. He of drug law enforcement is cans, as well as newspapers to prolong the life of landfills, shop. Buy products that are packaged in recyclable contain­believes that violent crimes as­surely not a valid reason for le­and bottles from being sent to thus keeping true costs of ers or that are made from re­sociated with drugs would de­galization. Just because the a landfill facility, wasting waste disposal down. 
crease greatly from legaliza­current laws are, for the mostWhat, then, are the practical cycled materials. ~void exc~ss,precious space. Our recycling packaging. Buy high quality, tion. Lastly, Mr. Acker sub­part, ineffective, should the program also saves energy by applications of source reduc­durable goods as opposed to scribes to a "live and let live" government give up completely,reclaiming materials used to tion? It involves a fundamental change in our consumption low quality, disposable goods. policy that allows the average and allow the percentage of ar­make new products as opposed Switch to cloth diapers for ba­citizen to do whatever he or she rests, albeit small, dwindle to to making goods from virgin habits. Americans are now the bies. Most of us here at Notre feels like doing as long as it nothing? Should this countryraw materials. Clearly, Notre highest per capita producers of doesn't harm others; in fall further into decadence andDame were raised in cloth dia­
step in the waste, generating nearly 4
Dame is takir a pers. essence, personal freedom corruption and let its citizens
right direction. pounds of waste per day. Much above all else. Certainly drug become mindless drug addicts,However, statistics compiled of this waste is directly related Here at Notre Dame we can legalization will not meet all the and then-to shove the knife in by the EPA show that current to the disposable nature of source reduce by using lumber lofty goals that Mr. Acker has further-make a profit out ofIndiana landfills have a American society. For example: from old lofts rather than buy­set for it. these people's misery? Lettingpredicted life span of only eight excess packaging is a large ing new wood every year when Mr. Acker cites the Prohibi­the ends justify the means,years. This represents a crisis problem. Things like microwav­designing our humble abodes. 
tion Era as an example sup­even if the money could be putbecause new landfills are politi­able food containers, meat and Bring our own washable coffee porting his argument. Violent to good use, is simply an im­cally impossible to open in light produce trays, fast food pack­cup to drink as we study at the crimes supposedly decreased moral choice that this countryof the "NIMBY" ( Not In My aging, and plastic toothpaste Oak Room or the Huddle in­after the legalization of alco­cannot afford to make.
BackYard) syndrome. What tubes are not recyclable or are stead of using their disposable hol. One might ask, however, if More often than not, whenhappens in eight years when not recycled efficiently enough cups. The next time we buy ice all the alcohol related deaths these substances are used,existing landfills begin closing to discourage their disposal. cream, eat it from a cone in­that occur daily in this country, abuse is involved. Mr. Ackertheir gates to continued Another facet of this problem stead of a cup. It tastes great involving cars, guns, and other believes that drugs are fine asdumping? Will Indiana ship its is the presence of goods and it prevents a cup and a deadly weapons, are not violent long as his personal freedom isgarbage to other states like designed for disposability. How spoon from festering in a land­crimes. Does the fact that alco­not encroached upon. WhenNew York, New Jersey, many disposable razors, fill for 2000 years. 
hol is legal change the fact that under the influence, abusersPennsylvania, and a host of batteries, cigarette lighters, It is a challenge to change alcoholism, a form of drug ad­endanger themselves andother states currently do? Ex­and disposable diapers do our habits, but to keep America diction, is one of the country's others. Why not simply take the porting waste over state lines Americans throw away? A from drowning in a sea of its most pervasive social problems means for this violence away?
to beat intrastate dumping fees scary thought: over 16 billion own waste, something must be and causes of death? Does Mr. Obviously, no easy solution ex­is merely a quick-fix answer to baby diapers are disposed of done. Great strides have been 
Acker propose that if the ists for this nation's drug
a problem that needs a long­every year by Americans. Now · made in this country with recy­drinking age was abolished, the problem. But isn't making an term solution. some camera manufacturers cling, but if all the materials problem with adolescent drink­effort much better than surren­The answer lies in source re­have developed a disposable currently recyclable were recy­ing would disappearZ Similarly, dering a whole country to itsduction. What is source reduc­camera, just take your film out cled, this would only account the legalization of drugs will destruction by substances thattion one might ask? It is the and dispose. This shows how for 25-35% of our present not cure the problems caused corrupt children, adults, andidea of reducing waste at its spoiled we Americans have be­waste production. 
by the drugs themselves, legal governments alike? 
source, that is, the prevention come filling our trash bags Jeffrey Bray is senior govern­or illegal. It will surely worsenof waste before it is created. with these items every day. ment major with a Hesburgh 
them. Jason Winslade
Source reduction as a policy Additionally, our society has Program in Public Service con­Even if they were regulated by Flanner Hall 
goal, along with recycling, also become accustomed to centration and a member of the 
the FDA, drugs, like alcohol, Jan.30, 1990
compositing, and sewage throwing something out if it ND Environmental Action Club. 
J 
-·  
Accent 
page 10  Wednesday, February 7, 1990  

THE 

-







UNDERGROUND 
As progressive becomes mainstream, sub-pop, industrial, and rap emerge as new genres 

JASON WINSLADE 
accent writer 
The Cure. H.E.M. U2. New Order. Depeche Mode. Tears for Fears. Simple Minds. Not too long ago, these early 80's progressive bands were the darlings of underground pro­gressive fans. and unheard of outside of the underground cir­cles. Today, these bands are household names. play in front of stadium size crowds, arn frequently heard on Top 40 ra­dio. and are the trendy bands of the 80's and 90's, influencing countless clone bands. In flSSflnce, yesterday's under­ground has become today's mainstream. /\!though some of these bands still show facets of their old styli~. most have ma­tured considerably since th(~ir youth, and more orten than not have molded tlwir style to please tlw masses of nnw, young. and eager "progrnssiw" fans. What is the 1ww under­ground and can tlw new bands be accurately categorized? 
Even such musical gnnrns as jazz have had progrnssiw n~ac­tions to their mainstrnam. Punk was tlw most violnnt n•ac­tion to tlw rock mainstrnam, latnr subdividing into such typns as hardcorn, garage rock, and gothic rock. t·:lnctronic mu­sic, pionPnred by tlw Gnnnans and Japanese, led tlw way to techno-pop, and finally to tlw most underground faction of nlertronie. industrial. Main­stream rhythm and blues gaw way to rap. hip-hop, and house, a form of Plnctronieally sam­pled beats populariz(•d by mindless dance dubs known as acid houses. Most music genn~s have blurred their prnviously distinct lines and have pro­duced countless number of subdivisions. The most diversi­fied bands are the most suc­cessful, as in the case of the Hed I lot Chili Peppers , who combine funk, punk, hip-hop and rap for a unique sound. However. out of all these sub­genres, three movements in particular seem to indicate the direction of underground music today; sub-pop. industrial, and 
rap. 
1\s hardcorc is on the decline, it is being assimilated into other genres like sub-pop, a term named after the Seattle label which promotes area bands that combine classic rock influences with punk and hardcore (Black Flag meets Led Zeppelin). This new genre is the new grungy, garage sound, re­acting to the pop genre which takes itself too seriously, ac­cording to the sub-pop artists. Bands like Mudhoney and Soundgarden personify the sub­pop attitude in their less than meaningful lyrics, and harsh, yet fun, sound, modeled after the original fifties and sixties "Louie, Louie" sound. Other la­bels, like D.C.'s Dischord, Cali­fornia's SST, and New York's Revelation, are following suit and promoting the more diver­sified hardcore and garage rock bands, like Fugazi. 
Like rock, metal, and elec­tronic music, rap has its reac­tionary factions. Message ori­ented groups like Public Enemy, NWA, and Ice-T have led the way in underground rap against such "Cosby kid" rap­pers as Jazzy Jeff and Young MC, presenting issues such as drugs, racism and gang vio­lence, rathflr than innuendos and entertaining stories. He­gardless, tlwse groups am not above having a good time and rapping about othnr things be­sides thn horror of the strnets. 
1\s in all other forms of mu­sic, yesterday's underground has bncomn mainstrnam in rap also, as demonstrated by its gn~atly 1mlargnned audience. /\!though Nnw York and 1../\. an~ still thn epicenters of rap. it has sprPad to such <m~as as Dallas, 1\tlanta and Miami. wlwre lalwls such a<; len-T's Bhynw Syndicatn and NW/\'s Huthlnss Bncords producP un­dnrground rap groups. Tlw most diwrsilied groups, com­bining raps and ballads, arP thl' onPs that surviw the lonw·st. 
Finallv as a rPaction to tlw mindlPs.s lwats of house and tlw imagP consdous tPchno-pop artists. industrial music has rPaclwd the fon•f'ront of tlw nPw tPchnological wavP of PlPI'­tronic sound. Vancouvnr's :'IIPt­twPrk, Chicago's Wax Tracks. and tlw BPlgian/1\nwrican lalwl Play It /\gain Sam !wing thP primary indPpendnnt industrial lalwls. Manv bands likP NitzPr l·:bb, Front i.inP 1\ssPmhly, and t:ront 242 arn still dancP-ori­PntPd, ynl tlwy ofT1~r a morP nwsmnrizing brand of ITPatiw machiJH•-likP rnpPtition, consisting of harslwr and dPPpPr bnats. Hxp1~rinwntal bands such as Laibach and tlw GPrman t:instuerzPnd(' NnubautPn compete with tlw dafl(~e orient!~d bands, while tlw morn sucenssf'ul bands, as always, arn the ones that combine many diffnn~nt styles. With the adv1mt of nnw and ew~r-changing technology, industrial, on a continuum bntwnen house and hardcorn, is most accnssibln to artists who haw morn tnehnologieal skill than musical talent. However. when thn two arn eombilwd. tlw 

drum machines, sampled guitars, effects, and movie sound bites, can create fantastic audio seulptures of both mood and madness, as in the example of the atmospheric and horrific Skinny Puppy and the eonfrontational Ministry. Newer bands, such as Cleve­land's Nine Inch Nails, are bound to go far, by combining elements of thrash, punk, funk, techno-pop, and hip-hop. 
In general, the future of un­derground music, and music overall, lies in the hands of the artist who can diversify, whether it be in rap, sub-pop, industrial, or metal. If history repeats itself. today's under­ground music might be heard on mainstream radio ten years from now. Concerts might be­come more violent, confronta­tional, and effects-oriented. No genre will be pure, but will be saturated with numerous other styles and sub-genres. The face of music is changing as you read this, and unless you be­eome aware of the underground around you, you might get lost in the shuffle. 
Adrian Williams, Jeff Jotz, and Ted Leo contributed to this article. 
~-~ 
~--------~­

Sports Wednesday 
February 7, 1990 
NHL STANDINGS games
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division Thursday w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Men's and women's swimming at NY Islanders 26 24 5 57 199 193 13-12-4 13-12-1 8-11-4 
the MCC Championships 
NY Rangers 22 22 10 54 172 179 12-7-8 10-15-2 7-11-4 
Men's basketball at SMU
New Jersey 24 24 5 53 203 208 14-12-1 10-12-4 12-7-4 Philadelphia . 22 26 7 51 199 190 12-13-1 10-13-6 9-10-2 Friday Pittsburgh 23 26 4 50 216 238 15-12-1 8-14-3 12-11-2 Women's tennis at Rolex Indoor Washington 23 28 4 50 196 201 10-12-2 13-16-2 13-11-0 Tournament 
Adams Division 
Men's and women's swimming at
Boston 32 18 5 69 196 155 18-8-2 14-10-3 13-9-3 Buffalo 30 19 6 66 188 167 17-7-2 13-12-4 13-8-2 the MCC Championships Montreal 29 21 6 64 182 161 19-8-3 10-13-3 12-7-1 Hockey vs. LAKE FOREST, 7:30 Hartford 24 24 6 54 183 182 10-13-4 14-11-2 8-10-2 
p.m.

Quebec 9 38 6 24 167 259 5-18-5 4-20-1 3-15-2 
Saturday Women's tennis at Rolex Indoor
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Noms Division 
Tournament w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Men's and women's swimming at 198 18-8-1 11-12-3 8-9-1
Chicago 29 20 4 62 217 the MCC Championships 
28 24 58 242 237 18-8-1 10-16-1 14-8-1
Toronto 2 Wrestling vs. Purdue, 7:30 p.m.
St. Louis 24 21 8 56 185 174 12-9-4 12-12-4 9-11-1 Minnesota 24 29 3 51 190 209 19-7-1 5-22-2 11-12-1 Men's tennis hosts the NOTRE Detroit 19 28 6 44 193 213 13-10-3 6-18-3 9-11-2 DAME QUADRANGLE, action at 9 Smythe Division a.m., 3 p.m., 7 p.m. 
Calgary 26 16 13 65 227 182 17-4-5 9-12-8 9-10-3 
Hockey at Lake Forest
Edmonton 27 18 10 64 220 189 16-7-5 11-11-5 13-6-3 Winnipeg 25 22 7 57 200 201 15-9-4 10-13-3 10-6-2 
Men's basketball at Houston 
Los Angeles 23 24 6 52 232 220 14-12-2 9-12-4 9-7-5 Men's and women's fencing at 9 162 9-12-7 2-14-5
Vancouver 15 32 39 213 6-20-2 Northwestern, Ohio State & Cleveland State Sunday
Wednesday's Games St. Louis at Toronto, 7:30_p.m. Edmonton at New York Rangers. 7:35 p.m. 
::':'tll~ii.4SS.....l......illL....iJlcllliL.l...t~2lliiilll~Z:-~.....l.Lillli.J~........J Women's tennis at Rolex Indoor
Hartford at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. 
Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. 
~ n Tournament
. 

TuesdayBASKETBALL TOP 25 POLLS NBA STANDINGS Women's basketball at Butler 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the The Top Twenty Five women's EASTERN CONFERENCE Feb.14 Associated Press college basketball poll, basketball teams, with first-place votes of Atlantic DMsion Men's basketball vs. with first-place votes in parentheses. 60women's coaches in parentheses, total w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni 
MARQUETIE, 7:30 p.m. 
records through Feb. 4, total points based points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-New York 30 16 .652 Won3 20-2 10-14 17-8 on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-Philadelphia 30 16 .652 Won 12 19-3 11-13 25-9 
SCOREBOARD 
14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and 4-3-2-1, season records through Feb. 4, Boston 27 17 .614 2 Won 1 17-7 10-10 17-11 last week's ranking: points and last week's ranking as compiled Washington 17 30 .362 131/2 Won 1 13-11 4-19 9-19 Results from Jan. 31-Feb. 7 by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia New Jersey 12 34 .261 18 Lost 9 8-12 4-22 10-18 Women's basketball (15-6) Record PtsPvs Inquirer: Miami 10 37 .213 201/2 Lost 1 5-17 5-20 6-23 
Notre Dame 84, St. Louis 50 
1. Missouri (58) 21-1 1,617 1 Record PtsPvs Central Division 
Notre Dame 70, Evansville 58 
2. 
Kansas (7) 22-1 1,561 2 1. La. Tech (53) 19-0 1,637 1 Detroit 33 14 .702 Won 7 20-3 13-11 21-8 

3. 
Arkansas 19-2 1,438 3 2. Stanford (13) 19-0 1,597 2 Chicago 28 17 .622 4 Lost 2 18-2 10-15 14-11 Notre Dame 75, Loyola 63 

4. 
Duke 18-3 1,364 5 3. Nev.-Las Vegas 19-1 1,486 3 Milwaukee 26 21 .553 7 Lost 2 17-6 9-15 14-12 Women's tennis 

5. 
Georgetown 17-2 1,337 6 4. Georgia 19-2 1,447 4 Indiana 23 23 .500 91/2 Lost 5 16-7 7-16 15-12 


Notre Dame's Tracy Barton and 
6. Syracuse 16-3 1,281 7 5. Tennessee 16-4 1,393 5 Atlanta 21 23 .477 101/2 Lost 5 13-7 8-16 14-15 
Ann Bradshaw finished third in the
7. 
Michigan 16-4 1,113 4 6. Texas 15-3 1,322 6 Cleveland 20 24 .455 111/2 Won 1 12-10 8-14 13-15 

8. 
Connecticut 19-3 1,073 13 7. Washington 17-2 1,219 7 Orlando 13 32 .289 19 Lost 2 9-13 4-19 8-21 Eck Doubles Classic defeating 

9. 
UNLV 16-4 1,061 12 8. Long Beach St. 16-4 1,160 8 WESTERN CONFERENCE Ohio State's Kelly Story and Dana 

10. 
Purdue 16-3 1,013 8 9. Steph. F. Austin 16-2 1,111 9 Midwest Division 


Zanville 6-4, 1-6, 6-4. 
11. LSU 16-4 940 14 10. Purdue 16-3 1,065 10 w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni 12.111inois 16-4 866 11 11. N. Carolina St. 15-4 977 11 San Antonio 31 13 .705 -Won4 20-1 11-12 20-6 Wrestling (5-6) 
13. 
Oklahoma 15-3 854 9 12. Virginia 19-3 927 12 Utah 31 14 .689 1/2 Lost2 22-3 9-11 20-6 Notre Dame 18, Ohio State 15 

14. 
La Salle 16-1 795 15 13. Auburn 17-5 748 14 Denver 25 19 .568 6 Won2 17-5 8-14 14-15 Indiana 25, Notre Dame 14 

15. 
Louisville 16-4 739 10 14. Louisiana St. 16-3 743 16 Dallas 24 22 .522 8 Lost 2 17-8 7-14 15-19 


Men's swimming (15-2) 
16. Georgia Tech 14-4 634 17 15. Northwestern 16-2 660 19 Houston 21 24 .467 101/2 Lost 1 17-4 4-20 13-18 
Notre Dame 135, Duke 1 06 
17. 
Minnesota 15-4 566 19 16.1owa 14-5 647 13 Minnesota 10 34 .227 21 Lost 1 8-16 2-18 5-20 

18. 
Oregon St. 17-3 499 21 17. Hawaii 17-2 634 17 Charlotte 8 35 .186 22 1/2 Lost 8 7-16 1-19 5-23 N.C. State 136, Notre Dame 99 

19. 
UClA 15-4 450 16 18. S. Mississippi 18-2 563 18 Pacific Division Women's swimming (13-5) ­

20. 
Loyola Mary'mt 17-4 376 20 19. South Carolina 13-6 404 15 L.A. Lakers 33 11 .750 Won2 21-2 12-9 19-6 


23-2 10-10 Notre Dame 159, Duke 83 
21. Xavier. Ohio 17-2 298 23 20. Tenn.Tech 15-3 352 20 Portland 33 12 .733 1/2 Won2 23-8 
N.C. State 168, Notre Dame 123
22. 
Arizona 14-4 276 24 21. St. Joseph's 16-3 342 21 Phoenix 27 17 .614 6 Lost 1 19-5 8-12 19-10 

23. 
Michigan St. 17-5 257 22. Penn St. 16-3 275 22 Seattle 22 22 .500 11 Won3 17-5 5-17 11-13 Hockey (15-11-0) 

24. 
St. John's 17-6 208 18 23. N. Illinois 17-3 134 24 Golden State 22 23 .489 11 1/2 Lost 1 18-5 4-18 15-14 Air Force 6-2, Notre Dame 3-3 

25. 
Indiana 14-5 147 22 24. Providence 16-4 90 L.A. Clippers 20 26 .435 14 Lost 1 14-7 6-19 11-17 


Men's basketball (11-7) 
25. Vanderbilt 18-6 88 Sacramento 12 33 .267 211/2 Lost 5 10-13 2-20 7-22 
Duke 88, Notre Dame 76
Others receiving votes: Clemson 63, Wednesday's Games 
Other receiving votes: New Mexico St. Maryland 61, Connecticut 57, Montana 35, Charlotte at Boston, 7:30p.m. Men's tennis (3-1) 118, Alabama 88, North Carolina 58, Mississippi 33, Arkansas 32, Old Dominion Utah at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Notre Dame 6, Illinois 3 Brigham Young 29, N. Carolina St. 18, 30. Miami, Fla. 19, Kansas 14, Toledo 14, Golden State at Philadelphia, 8 p.m. Philadelphia at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Notre Dame 5, W. Virginia 4 
Texas 12, Idaho 6, Clemson 5, Louisiana Kansas St. 12, Oregon 8, Richmond 8, Phoenix at Seattle, 10 p.m. Miami at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
Men's fencing (13-0) &
Tech 5, Ball St. 4, Colorado St. 4, E. DePaul 6, Kentucky 6, Florida St. 4, Chicago at Los Angeles Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Detroit at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. 
Tennessee St. 3, Providence 3, Holy Cross Missouri 4, Oklahoma St. 4, San Francisco Thursday's Games Atlanta at Houston, 8:30p.m. Women's fencing (9-0) 2, Virginia 2. Iowa 1, James Madison 1, 4, SW Missouri 4, Holy Cross 3, Miami-Golden State at New York, 7:30p.m. Minnesota at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Both squads stayed undefeated Memphis St. 1, Southern U. 1, Wright St. 1. Ohio 3, Rutgers 2, Fairfield 1, New Mexico Los Angeles Clippers at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Indiana at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. 
by beating E. Michigan, Michigan, 
w L Pet w L Pet FG FGA Pet
Jordan, Chi. 45 559 325 1497 33.3 Cummings, S.A. 44 396 185 990 22.5 
Purdue 9 1 .900 17 3 .850 Barkley, Phil. 372 610 .610
Malone, Utah 44 491 366 1357 30.8 Richmond, G.S. 42 331 247 929 22.1 
Michigan 6 3 .667 18 4 .800 Parish, Bos. 308 518 .595
Ewing, N.Y. 45 476 279 1231 27.4 Tisdale, Sac. 45 410 173 993 22.1
Minnesota 6 3 .667 15 4 .789 Malone, Utah 491 835 .588
Chambers, Phoe. 44 421 289 1140 25.9
Michigan St 6 3 .667 17 5 .m West, Phoe. 178 303 .587
Rebounding Illinois 6 4 .600 16 4 .809 Williams, Port. 234 418 .560
Mullin, G.S. 44 404 274 1132 25.7 
G Off Del Tot Avg Indiana 4 5 .444 14 5 .737 Marciulionis, G.S.168 307 .547
Wilkins, All. 43 416 233 1099 25.6 
Olajuwon, Hou. 45 159 438 597 13.3 Ohio State 4 5 .444 10 9 .526 Hornacek, Phoe.307 564 .544
Barkley, Phil. 43 372 317 1064 24.7 
Robinson. S.A. 44 159 365 524 11.9
Miller, Ind. 46 394 254 1130 24.6
Iowa 3 6 .333 11 8 .579 
Oakl<~y. N.Y. 41 178 309 487 11.9 A99istsCampbell, Minn. 44 403 235 1048 23.8
Wisconsin 2 8 .200 11 11 .500 
Barkley, Phil. 43 211 295 506 11.8 G No. Avg.
Drexler, Port. 40 377 181 945 23.6
N'Western 1 9 .100 8 12 .400 
Malone, Utah 44 115 365 480 10.9 Stockton, Utah 42 566 13.5 Thursday's Games Ellis, Sea. 32 289 119 741 23.2 Seikaly, Mia. 45 162 316 478 10.6 Johnson, LAL 43 500 11.6 Minnesota at IIHnois Malone, Wash. 43 424 144 992 23.1 Parish, Bos. 44 167 297 464 10.5 K.Johnson, Phoe.36 392 10.9 Indiana at Michigan Olajuwon, Hou. 45 423 189 1036 23.0 Ewing, N.Y. 45 125 328 453 10.1 Bogues, Char. 42 445 10.6 
Robinson, S.A. 44 347 335 1029 23.4 
Iowa at Ohio State Malone, All. 43 197 227 424 9.9 Grant, LAC 44 442 10.0 McDaniel, Sea. 42 387 174 951 22.6 
Harper, LAC 35 301 182 798 22.8 
Wisconsin at Michigan State Bowie, N.J. 40 118 275 393 9.8 Porter, Port. 45 427 9.5 Thomas, Det. 46 429 9.3 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~;;~~~~~~;~~~~~~;~~~;~;~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~;~~;~~~~~~~~~~;~~;~~~~~~~~~I~f~~;~;f;;~;~~~~;;~~~I~;m;~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;~~~;~;;~~;~~~;~;~;~~;~;;~;;;;;;~~~;~;~~~;~;~~~m~;;;~~;;~;~;~;~;;;~;;~;~~;~~~ 

Michael
·.·.;~~)--E~~~~~~J;~~~;~~~;;;;~~~.---1 
RhaHigan
~1-} l
Special Events, Performing Arts, ~ . , Services, Publicity, and Relations. i 
turns 21
)
\ 1; ~ l 
and so It begins ... 
~, ... ,~~~ ~~~..~......... -~..l.f ~,/ Find out how you can make things 1 
~ ,. ...~ • ·• happen! 1 ( ~~.,ff.-Meet at the S.U.B. office, 2nd floor l 
'( .........,.,...,~( ~~J;~u~ursday, February 8th. ~ i ~~:-:z~~·! Refreshments provided. __]li/ i 
......,............ ~ 

..... --... -· ............ --....... -· ............................. -· --.......................... --............... -•• -· .................................... --....... --........ ... .,J 
Love, Colleen 


~------------------------------------------------------~-­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1990
-
Crum's technical ignites Louisville against Florida State 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -for arguing an official's call. Florida State (13-11, 4-5) Louisville came alive with a 14-But Florida State made only went 11:44 without a field goal, 2 run followittg a technical foul one of four free throws and missing nine shots, and turned on Coach Denny Crum midway turned th~ball over, awakening the ball over six times to help through the game and the 15th-both the Freedom Hall crowd the Louisville cause. The Semi-ranked Cardinals beat Florida of 19,355 and the Cardinals. noles got within seven points State 69-50 TuPsday night be-twice, the last time at 39-32 on hind Cornelius Holden's career-Louisville (17 -4, 7-1 Metro Irving Thomas' two free throws high 20 points and 12 re-Conference) scored five of the with 11:17 remaining, before bounds. next six points to take a 28-25 Louisville scored seven straight 
The game was tied 23-23 with halftime lead and nine of the to put the game out of reach. 
5:01 left in the first half when first 10 points in the second Louisville made 17 of 27 Crum was assessed a technical half to make it 37-26. shots (63 percent) in the second 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271·9114 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! Distributorships. Dealerships, Money making opportunities. Franchises, & Mail order, Detail, send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company, Box 3006, Boston, MA. 02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277· 5134 Cathy. 
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING IS MOVING, AND AS OF 2/9/90 WILL BE LOCATED 808 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD. SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 237·1949 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Charles Wilber Professor of Economics Responding to: "What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" An analysis of the Bishops' Letter on the Economy THURSDAY, FEB. 8 7 p.m. All are welcome ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
-
USED TEXTBOOKS 

AT A DISCOUNT' Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
Shipping, Copies. Cards. 
Laser Quality For 
Papers, Reports. Resumes, Etc. 
277·MAIL 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... 
Alumni Senior Club applications for 
bartenders and managers now 
available in Student Activities 
OHice. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 289·1743. 
For a hot tip on where to find a good lime Call647·0900 ext.1740 Saint Mary's Campus Events Hothne 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST Pair of red wire-nmmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963. 
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz Claiborne leather shoulder bag that doesn't belong to you, 
PLEASE return 1t' Contains many valuble items, including Sharp Graphic calculator, checkbook, etcl REWARD· no questions asked! PLEASE call283-4354 anytime I LOST: eye glasses in Washington Hall at Sunday's Gospel Choir concert(2-4-90). PLEASE call x4907 if you found them. My academic career depends on you !I 
WANTED 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
Ride Needed to IU·Bioomington 
this weekend. Fri2/9 Return 
Sun2/9 Claudine x4045 
Summer job interviews · Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000· $8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal· oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
20. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
Wanted: A ride to Purdue or Rensselaer THIS WEEKEND (2-9), or any other. Call Jennie X2194. 
SUMMER JOSS pooNSELORS -Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girts Camp, Maine 
Top Salary. Rm!Bd!Laundry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Goff, ~uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, ~ Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1n1, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR· LARGE 4 BDRM. HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. CLOSE TO SCHOOL. CALL 234· 9364. 
House for 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 bedrooms, WID Close to ND Competitive rent 264·60 1 0 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291·7153. 
FOR SALE 

1981 FORD GRANADA, 84,000 MI. $400. 255-3230. 
half and 29 of 56 (52 percent) for the game. Florida State made half its 22 shots in the first half but only 10 of 31 (32 percent) in the second half to finish at 40 percent, 
Holden, a sophomore for­ward, had a previous high of 18 points against Cincinnati earlier this season. Reserve Jerome Harmon added 15 points for Louisville. 

Louisville forward Tony Kim-bro. a fifth-year senior, became the 38th Cardinal to score 1,000 career points when he made a 3-pointer from the top of the key with 11:32 left in the first half. lie finished with five points. 
Chuck Graham, Thomas and Michael Polite each scored 11 points for Florida State. 
The Observer accepiS classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's oHice. Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
TICKETS 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND VS 
GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 
I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets 
For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259 
HELP! 

$NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim x1646 
I NEED MISSOURI TICKETS! If you have four Missouri tickets, I'll buy them. I'd like at least two sets of two. Call Monica at 4823. 
NEED 3 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL KEN x4074. 
FOR SALE: Plane ticket to VA. for Spring Break. Call Christine @ 284·4345! 
PERSONALS 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
Parrot Heads Forever !I! 
AVOID THE RUSH! AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! 
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER 
SOON TO ENTER YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. 
In 1986 the Board of Trustees promised to divest but didn't. Thursday, Feb.8 they meet again. Join the AAN at 12:15 Thursday for a vigil and demonstration on the Fieldhouse Mall. Come because you hate Apartheid and Because you love Notre Dame. 
ATTENTION ALL ENGLISH 
MAJORS: English Club meeting 
this Wed., 2/7, 
7:00 p.m., Dooley Room·· LaFortune!!!! Please Come! 
ENGLISH MAJORS' CLUB 
MEETING!!! Wed. night, 7:00 
p.m., Dooley Room-LaFortune 
Lots of events planned for this 
semester. Be there! 
ENGLISH MAJORS UNITE: Tonight, 7:00p.m., Dooley Room-· Lafortune. Hope to see you all there!!! 
Senior Girls! Senior Girls! "GIRLS NIGHT OUT' 
Go to Lenny's to see our "revealing" attraction! ! (Who knows, it could be Bob G.) 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus coming Feb. 10 from the 
Notre Dame Glee Club. 
PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513·891-1583. 
lr-­

SPRING BREAK 
Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get Early Bird Savings. Third year nning to Cancun. Rio, Bermuda and the Bahamas Call Doug at: 283-1818 
THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND Long-lasting. satisfying. all-natural. Guaranteed to bleed. CLUB 23 THIS FRIDAY 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE Thur. Feb. 8 7:00 pm. Rm 120 Law School Meeting and Movie: "Meet the Abortion Providers" 
Mary Lee. Great Job! We're all really proud of you. Just watch that brogue o.k.? Mia 
MIGURK. HAPPY B·DAY! Have a wild one! Wish I could be there. My advice to you is to start drinking heavily! A toast to a piece of toast! Love MOZER 
HI and my best to everyone else on both campuses esp. my McManless & H.C. buddies from last year, Ski club & Sailing Club etc ... See ya in Aug. Love MOZER 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ?p.m. Thursday, Feb. 8 All are welcome. ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
ANNE E. KENNEY: Happy Valentine's day·-so it's not USA TODAY. but it's close! 
XXOO·-l. 

The Dragon is Lame and Boss Hog will rule forever. 
ramzi 1 3.02 Personal 1 
02107 
VIC LUIS GREG 
KEVIN 

it would not have worked without you guys. You are the best! 
Only 2 more days until the birthday of MIKE MURPHY of Zahm!! (Still confused Mike??!) 
hi ag 

ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W .. KOKOMO. IN 46901. 
HUMANITAS JOURNAL now accepting essays, fiction and book reviews. Submit to English OHice by feb. 16th. 
••••••••wiNTERFESr••• 
BROTHER MICHAEL, The students are all over the PLACE!!! And there is NAH-thing the staff can do!!! 
With affection, Flanner Staff 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 ·11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 

Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234·3541 'MO' 
BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS' Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279. includes meals. parties, accomodat1ons, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399. 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel 1·800·638-6786. 
Seniors............................................... Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club 
from topm · 2am Got a Date/ Need a Date Senior Formal Spring Raffle 
Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc.. 
Don't forget 
Friday Lunch Noon·2 at Alumni Sr. Club 
Don't forget 

St. Jude. please hear my prayer. 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus Coming Feb. 10 from the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
Coming soon.. 
CliH Erickson Where? Alumni Sr. Club When? Feb 15 & 16 
MISFITS IN DISGUISE....... Alumni Sr. Club Feb 10 10pm-11pm........ 
Check out the New Price on Club Cup Nile ............................. . 

SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON(MAY 23·JUNE22) ROME(JUNE17-JUL Y16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT., FR .. SWITZ., GER., ENG., & ITALY. COURSES IN ART, BIO., BUEC, HIST., IT., SOC. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS STUDENTS, TEACHERS,& PIZZA. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK AT 284·4460 OR 272·3726. 
HELLO SUNSHINE, MARY AND. OF COURSE, VINNIE!!!!!!!! UUH-HIYA & GOOD-BY A FROM YOUR PAL MOLLY 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM PRESENTS: CHARLES WILBER Professor of Economics 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Charles Wilber Prof. of Economics 
respond• to 
"What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" 
An Anal}"'il d tl'le Bithop1' Leh•r on th• 
Economy 
Thurs. Feb. 8 at 7:00P.M. 
oo-aponsorod by S.U.B. 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN 
EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30P.M .. ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30P.M, ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL INVITED. 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30P.M. ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL INVITED. 
STILL NEED MICRO·ECON BOOK BY BROWNING. CALL AMY AT 3874 
Ed's Painting Co. Live in concert· Thur. nile 
10:00 to 12:00 in Keenan basement. Free admis. Accoustic rock 
FLOWER DELIVERY 
Send your "Secret Sweetie" a Valentine Flower' Only $1 in the dining halls!! Feb. 8-Feb. 13 
••SOPHOMORES** Sign ups for JPW Escape in Chicago start Mon., Feb. 5 lsi floor LaFortune • next to the inlomation desk ($60) 
Rich and Whitey: ok, the message was amusing, but the question remains the same: "Who slept on top last night?" just wondering ... m.y. 
Steve, Scott, Jon & Will· Would U do it. Did U do it-oh my God U did?-with who? 5 minutes? 
Paybacks are hell! 
Love, Kath & Erin 
SCUZ (RW) IS 20! Happy Birthday, Julie! -CW 
hi tim 

TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX responding to "What Do The Charity Ball Meeting ND SPORTS wall calendar now hi WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE Bishops Know About Economics?" 
7pm Tonite Sorin rm. La Fortune only $5.00! lnclueles action 

FOUND: In Library Auditorium-·2 SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES An analysis of the Bishops' Letter All interested in helping with thephotos &sporting event schedules. February is Windy City Month!
keys on a Seallle. Washington on the Economy ball are welcome to join us.
Mail order to: keychain. Room number 232. Call We need you all, so come and get 
AND BOOKS:702 S.Michigan Buy a ticket to Chicago and ........WINTERFEST.. .. 
Ken x1773. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8 7 P.M. 
involved.

South Bend,46618 get a shopping bag filled with neat FEBRUARY 4 · 1o•••••.. .. 
LOST 
slut!! Technics compact disc 
Only at the Info Desk in KC. YENTILAND RJ··UUHHIYA player with remote $165 LaFortune 
Brown Leather Jacket taken from FROM YOUR INVISIBLE PAL 
Daytona Beach 

party at 304 Campus View. I really x3443. 
SPRING BREAK MOLLY!
like it so please return it...or else I'll 
Largest trip 
!

Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get call crime stoppers. No questions 
on campus

NEC 54" projection TV THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND Early Bird Savings. Third yea~ 
Those interested in playing PERFECT FOR DORMS will be appearing at Club 23 
asked #1804 (Brian) GOTCHA the survival game, canrunning to Cancun. Rio, Bermuda 
8 pm Feb 7 Call NO Dept. of Comm. & Theatre 
sign up at dinner tonight and and the Bahamas Call Doug at: 

Lafortune Th'laler

239·7054 THIS FRIDAY tomorrow in the dining hall. 
283-1818 
284-4oi(Ji Jmrulcr 

---.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Rowing Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 124 Niewland to discuss spring break trip. Bring check books. 
Men's Volleyball Team will host Tri State at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce ACC pit. Admission is free. 
Holy Cross Hall will host "Hog Bowl !," a campus section football tournament to benefit homeless children in South Bend, this Saturday and Sunday at Holy Cross Field. Each men's hall will be represented by its section champ. The finals will be at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. 
Freshmen interested in being a student manager should attend a meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the ACC football auditorium. Call 239-6482 for more information. 
The Observer page 13 
Spurs extend home winning string 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Terry Cummings scored 23 points and Willie Anderson added 20 as the San Antonio Spurs extended their club-record home winning streak to 20 games Tuesday night with a 105-94 victory over the Atlanta Hawks. 
David Robinson added 17 points and 10 rebounds for the Spurs, who have the NBA's best home record, 21-1. 
The injury-plagued Hawks, losers of six straight games, 
9:30PM this Thursday at ~~5 
NIGHTCLUB 
l~V[E FROM THE DR. DEMENTO SHOW 




~,-~ome[)aAvE RUDOLF 

were led by Dominique Wilkins, who had 25 points, and Kevin Willis, who added 1 7. 
San Antonio scored the first 10 points of the second half, in­cluding four from Cummings, to take a 67-48 lead. 
Atlanta closed to within 71­62 with a 12-2 run later in the third quarter. 
But the Spurs, winners of five straight, used a 7-0 surge later in the period to go ahead by 18 and were threatened in the fourth quarter. 
Wilkins had 21 first-half points, but the Spurs, behind 17 points from Cummings, led 57­48 at the break. 
San Antonio, which leads the Midwest Divison by one game over Utah, set three free-throw records in the first half, fewest attempts in a quarter (0 in the second), fewest attempts in a half (three) and fewest made in a half (three). 
Atlanta, already missing Glenn Rivers and Jon Koncak, was without Antoine Carr Tuesday. He returned to At­lanta to receive treatment for a pulled thigh muscle. 
Rockets 108, Wolves 101 
HOUSTON (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon and Otis Thorpe scored 23 points each as Hous­ton withstood a fourth-quarter rally and defeated Minnesota. . Buck Johnson threw an er­rant pass with 19 seconds re­maining in the game, giving the Timberwolves an opportunity to tie the score, but Scott Roth committed an offensive foul and Mitchell Wiggins hit two free throws to seal the out­come. 
The Rockets' largest lead of 22 points evaporated quickly when their shooting cooled in the third quarter. Houston hit only 14 of 38 field-goal at­tempts in the second half, but survived because of 66 percent shooting in the first half. 
Minnesota, which has lost 12 straight road games, was led by Donald Royal with 21 and Sam Mitchell with 19. Spurs 105, Hawks 94 
Alumni-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. * Deadline for applications is March 7th  Panel Discussion Women Practicing Law Moderator: Teresa Godwin Phelps Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School Panel: Tang Thanh Le, Docteur en Droit, PhD, JD Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School Honorable Jean Jordan, JD Chief Judge, Superior Court, St Joseph County Adjunct Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School Carmen M. Piasecki, JD Partner, Nickle & Piasecki Ann Firth, JD Director of Residence Life University of Notre Dame Wednesday, Feb. 7,1990 7:00p.m. Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School  
Lowest ·ce in Town for Flowers on Valentine's • ens Valentines, Balloons and Cards, too. Remember to order EARLY... No advance orders will be taken after Monday, Feb. 12 Basement of LaFortune 12:30 -5:30 Mon. -Sat. We deliver dail ADWORKS  

........~~----~------~--~-------.~-----.----------------~~---.-------.-------------~----------------~---------------'-------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
No Magic in these Lakers as Volleyball Club wins easily 
If the Los Angeles Lakers in the second game as Pat Burke, Dan Kavanaugh, rolled into the Joyce ACC, Mike Flecker, Greg Barrett, Andy Sullivan and Greg people would no doubt come Mike Kamradt Scheckenbach took the floor for the Irish. The from miles around to see the Club Corner lineup continued to change, though, throughout the likes of Magic Johnson and rest of the match. James Worthy. " I still don't have my first team set," explained 
Tuesday night, the Grand Valley St. Lakers played the Volleyball Club and, no one is about to call this bunch talented as the Irish disposed of the Lakers in three games 15-2, 15-12 and 15-9. 
" We shouldn't have let this team score more than two points," said coach Bill Anderson. "I guess it's hard to get up for teams that aren't up to your tal­ent level. but that's what separates good and bad teams." 
The Irish starters in the first game of Pedro Nemelceff, Tom Martin, Dave Bose, Mike Sheedy, Tim Maloney and Paul DeMieri made quick work of the Lakers. GVSU took a 1-0 lead but the Irish then ran off 13 in a row. 
Dave Bose had 4 kills, including two rockets that made the Lakers glad they weren't in the line of fire. Jim Jefferey came off the bench for a block, and then took a Nemelceff set (one of eight) for a quick kill. The Notre Dame team looked impressive while the Laker team was in total disarray, not able to get any good sets or kills. 
The Irish went with a completely different lineup Anderson. "I'm trying to find a unity for the first team by using a lot of different combinations." 
Scheckenbach staked the Irish to an early lead with a solo block. The Irish used their superior passing ability to extend the margin to 6-1 but then ran into some sloppy play as the Lakers closed to 8­5 and Anderson called a timeout with the score 10-9 to settle down his team. 
With the score 14-12, Andy Sullivan came up with a big block to give the Irish a sideout and then gained the victory when GVSU had four hits. Dan Kavanaugh racked up nine assists while Pat Burke had four kills and four perfect serves. 
The Irish got the early lead in game three again but the Lakers closed to 11-9. A Flecker dink ex­tended the Irish lead to 13-9. Leo Casas served the last two points and also had a great one-handed save to keep one point alive. Another Flecker blast wrapped up the match for the Irish. 
The Irish lost their first three games of the year but are now on a roll, having won nine of their last ten. Included in that span is an impressive third-place finish at the University of Michigan Invita­tional last weekend. Notre Dame finished only be­hind Michigan and Michigan State while beating Bowling Green to gain third. 
"We've come a long way so far this year," said coach Anderson. "The tournament (last weekend) gave us a chance to look at personnel and mature a little." 
Not only was it a successful venture for the team, but 5-9 junior setter Nemelceff was named to the All-Tournament team. lie was only the third player in Notre Dame men's volleyball history to have that honor. 
The Gymnastics Club travelled to Miami (Ohio) to take on the Redskins as well as Purdue, and Eastern Michigan. The Irish women's team placed second, just three points behind Miami. 
"We definitely have as much talent as they do," said president Jenene Niedzwecki. "This was our first meet while it was Miami's third." 
Freshman Mary Malone placed third overall and second in the parallel bars. "She did really outstanding," commented Niedzwecki who herself finished fifth in the vault. The men didn't have a full team. but had a fine first meet. "They did great. This is the first time they per­formed against other team," said Niedzwecki. 
chemistry guys," without dorm affiliation) handed Siegfried B
Women 
Please join. continued from page 16 help from Breen-Phillips B. BTTCG can gain a firs-place 
their first loss, 31-25. With 
+
American 
Red C1'08a

Lyons B 25-2. Also, BTTCG (an tie if they defeat the lowly acronym for "better than the Lyons B team next Sunday. 
g~~~==========================================~~~~ 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
\ The Observer is currently seeking an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balanced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471. 



_Ihe_Obset:Ver­
=rr============================================================~=
011 110 

Ill ~~~~ ;;,~;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;~;::w.~;.;g, 
I 



~CLUB 
Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 
Questions? Call: 239-7521. 



Items 
continued from page 16 
every sport, it might be best for Notre Dame and for the MCC if the Irish somehow can find a way to enter a better conference. 
Burn the green uniforms., 
At first, this new form of road attire for the Notre Dame men's basketball team was a novelty. The Irish showed off the green on Saint Patrick's 
Men 
continued from page 16 
while Alumni A2 duels Holy Cross A at 8 p.m. 
Finally, at gym 4, Alumni B2 clashes with Sorin B at 7 p.m., Off-Campus B meets St. Ed's B at 8 p.m.. Cavanaugh B1 spars Day and whipped Vanderbilt in the first round of the NCAAs. 
And after the win over Vandy, it was only natural to think that maybe the green uniforms had some luck in them and bring them out again for the Georgetown game. 
Now it's obvious there's no more luck in these uniforms . Following losses to Georgetown last year, and to Louisville and Duke this year, the Irish are 1­3 wearing the green. 
This is one gimmick that has just worn out its welcome. 
Morrissey B1 at 9 p.m., and Zahm B faces Stanford Bl at 10 p.m. to close out the action for the day. 
Wednesday night at gym 1, Holy Cross B feuds with Dillon B2 at 7 p.m., Dillon A2· scraps with Carroll A at 8 p.m .. and St. Ed's A wrangles with Flanner A at 10 p.m. 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 
Come to the cheerleading informational meeting 
FEBRUARY 21st 
7:00pm in the Auditorium next to the Football office in the JACC. 

The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
presents 
" Defending Roman Loyalties and Republican Values: The 1848 Revolution in American Catholic Popular Literature" 
Professor Sandra Yocum Mize Saint Mary's College 
Thursday, February 8, 1990 
4:15P.M. 
Hesburqh Library Lounge 
-~-----7-------­
Wednesday, February 7, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
1\\o.tdoes it youn.9 man~ Go t"o the basemen"t~nd wo.it in the eMir--I't\ be down shortly/.. 
jMENSA GAIIESk 
Guess if's t;·me for one of our "apPc;ntments; huh! 
• 

The parenting advantages of dentists 


Wednesday ACROSS 24 Choose 53 Bay State city 
4:20 p.m. Lncture. "Laser Spectroscopy of Excited States 
1 Chief Norse god 25 Was sick 54 Slippery one 
of Positronium," by Prof. Klaus Ziock, Lawrence Liver­
5 Calamitous 26 An ICBM 56 Greek letter 
more Laboratory. Room 118 Nieuwland Science. Spon­
11 Communica­28 Newt 57 End of the 
sored by Dept. of Physics. 
tions call letters come-on
31 Coasters
7 p.m. Basketball. Saint Mary's College vs. Tri-State 
14 Sand hill in 62 "-Pinafore"
32 Cordwood
University. 
Britain measures 63 Use a rasp

7:30 p.m. Panel discussion on AIDS. Theodore's. Spon­
15 Get a new set of 34 Seat of Wayne 64 "Lord, -I?":

sored by the Pre-Professional Society, Pugwash, and the radials 
Co., Utah Matt. 26:22 

Minority Pre-Professional Club. 
16 Hearing shell 36 More of the 65 Raid the 17 C2 H6 0S 

come-on refrigerator18 Series enders 
41 Billy Joel's "Just 66 Add yeast 
MENUS 19 Half a fly _ the Way-Are" 67 Filly's mother 20 Start of a 42 Whole 68 Angels of mercy: photographer's
Notre Dame 

45 Fla. seaport Abbr.
come-on
Chicken Fried Steak 

23Afeast­50 M.D.'s 69 Rice and Gantry 
Spaghetti & Meatballs 

famine 52 Classic car 
70 Let off brake air 
Vegetable Rice Casserole Veal Parmesan Grinder 
DOWN

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 Small numbers of shares on Wall Street 

M 
2 Black mark at school
A 
3 Put in office 12 Hit very hard 37 Length measure 47 Bomb trials 

T 4 Modernists 13 Beliefs 38 Anoint, old style 48 Hayloft
H 5 Military unit 21 He's had it 39 Opp. of days 49 See 43 Down 6 Distant 22 OPEC's export 40 Device for 51 Farm machine 7 Egyptian solar 27 Celestial Altar getting rid of 55 Levels
1 deity 29 Baker's garbage 58 Fourth person 8 Caron role necessity 43 Breathe 59 Trolley in 
0 
30 Also 44 Lived London9 Persia, now
1 33 Omar's inverted 45 Photographer in 60 Garroway or Bowl the quip, e.g . Brubeck 11 Irritate 35 Soul, to Simone 46 He who cometh 61 Branch 



Sports
page 16 Wednesday, February 7, 1990 
ABC threatens action following ND contract 
NEW YORK (AP) -ABC Sports said Tuesday it was considering legal action against Notre Dame, NBC and the College Football Association in its battle to keep Fighting Irish home games. 
Stephen J. Solomon, senior vice president of ABC Sports,­angrily accused NBC and Notre Dame of interfering with its 
$210  million,  five-year  deal  
with the  CFA  that  begins  in  
1991.  

He also said that the network would not pay the full amount of money due in the contract unless Notre Dame home games were included. Both NBC and Notre Dame defended their actions, with NBC stating Tuesday: "We acted fairly in this situation." 
Meanwhile, ABC executives met Tuesday in New York with Chuck Neinas. the CFA's execu­tive director. Dave Ogrean. the CFA's assistant executive direc­tor for television, said in a tele­phone interview from Boulder, Colo.: "While we are familiar with the steps they might take against Notre Dame and NBC Sports, I don't think there's been any indication that ABC will pursue anything like that (legal action) against us. 
"Now that Notre Dame uni­laterally pulled out of the pack­age, we're trying to work it out so that there are 63 schools in­volved instead of 64," Ogrean said. 
Notre Dame and NBC agreed Monday to a live-year contract for the Fighting Irish's home games, beginning in 1991. The CFA and ABC agreed on Jan. 17 to a five-year, $210 million con­tract. 
"I believe that we have a con­tract with the CFA that includes all 64 schools, including Notre Dame," Solomon said. "Notre Dame is part of the deal we en­tered into with the CFA. We have informed them by letter that we have an agreement with the CFA that includes them." 
Asked if ABC or its parent, Capital Cities Inc., would take legal action to preserve the 
deal,  Solomon  said:  "That's  
certainly  one  of the  options  
we're entertaining."  



lnterhall basketball hitting stride 
Stars coming to forefront as crunch time nears for men 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 

Sports Writer 
As the 1990 men's lnterhall basketball season rolls towards the playoffs. the proverbial stars are beginning to shine. 
Sitting atop the heap of 22 A­division teams is Stanford A of the Big Sky League, boasting a 5-0 record. In the Big Sky. Stanford is dosely followed by Grace A, captained by Billy Sh­erman, at 4-1. 
Except for Cavanaugh A, who must win its final game, the rest of the teams in the Big Sky League must have more than a few things go their way in order to reach post-season eornpntition. 
In thn A-division ACC League, Morrissey A1, undefeated at 4­0, reigns supreme after prevail­ing in a :~6-:~2 nail-biter against Dillon A. whieh fell to 3-1. Yet Morrissey must refinn its game in order to bring its title hopes to fruition. 
Morrissey captain Kevin Keyes said, "Our next game is against the Off-Campus Van­dals. and we really need to play consistently, because we've been playing too spotty of late. 
We  especially  need  to  start  
playing good defense."  
Meanwhile,  Sorin  A  (3-0)  

faces a must win situation against Dillon A, which, in order to continue beyond the regular season, no longer has any option to win. 
"The game against Dillon will be a big game, and we're looking forward to it. You win, you get in the playoffs," Sorin captain Torn Zider said. 
In the A-division Big Ten, Morrissey A2, captained by Ed Larkin. sits in the lead at 3-0, followed by Fisher A, Holy Cross A and Carroll A at 2-1 eaeh. 
In the B-division, Sorin B of the ECAC and St. Ed's B of the WAC are tied at the top at 4-0. 
Trailing Sorin B in the ECAC is Alumni B2 (2-0). while the re­mainder of the ECAC must en­gage in a mad scramble to make the playoffs. A similar situation exists in the WAC. where St. Ed's B (4-0) and Off­Campus B (3-0) are the only teams with winning records. 
The B-division SEC promises a close race to the wire, as Ca­vanaugh B1 and Morrissey B head into the final week of the regular season deadlocked, each at 3-1. Closing out the B­division is the PAC Ten, led by Flanner B 1 ( 4-1) and closely shadowed by Stanford B1 (3-1 ). 
Tonight at ACC Intramural gym 2, Dillon A1 battles Sorin A at 7 p.m. for the right to make the playoffs. while Ca­vanaugh A and Keenan A square off at 8 p.m. At gym 1, Off-Campus Navarre Estates takes on Stanford B2 at 7 p.m., 
see MEN I page 14 

Women's divisions heading toward 'March Madness' 
By CHARLIE POLLARD 
Sports Writer 
"March Madness" will soon be here. 
That tempestuous time of year when basketball seasons galore will conclude in frenzind, unpredictable and exciting fashion, is:alrnost here. 
But before such featured events as the NCAA tournament and Notre Dame's own Book­store tournament, the Notre Dame women's interhall circuit takes center stage. 
Women's interhall is corn­posed of three divisions. The A­1 division showcases tradi­tional heavyweight Breen­Phillips, and relative newcomer Siegfried A. 
This past Sunday, Breen­Phillips avenged its opening­game loss to Siegfried A with· a 27-21"overtime win. Siegfried A still sits atop the A-1 division with· a 4-1 record, but Breen­.Phillips is right behind with a 3­1 .record. Christine Churchill, the Breen-Phillips captain, likes 
the position and progress of 
her team. 
"We really pointed towards this game (the 27-21 rematch victory)," said Churchill. "Siegfried beat us in the first game but we've come together more as a team since then." 
In Sunday's other action, Pasquerilla West evened its record at 2-2 with a 46-23 landslide victory over Badin Hall. Badin's last-place record dropped to 0-4. Lyons A is the fourth place team with a 1-2 record. They were to play Breen-Phillips Tuesday evening. 
The A-2 division has thus far 
been dominated by Lewis Hall 
with a 4-0 record. Pasquerilla 
East is one-half game back at 
4-1. These two teams will meet 
this Sunday in a division decid­
ing contest. 

Molly Mahoney, a senior on the underdog Pasquerilla East squad, is looking forward to the game. 
"Lewis is a very talented team. We have learned from experience that if we don't come to play, we will be beaten," said Mahoney. "We have a lot of weapons in our arsenal, but we have to execute properly to win." 
In last Sunday's action, Lewis beat 0-4 Walsh Hall, 35-31. Also, Pasquerilla East snuck by Howard Hall (1-3) by a score of 31-28. All is set for this Sun­day's big game at gym two of the Joyce ACC. Tipoff is set for 5 p.m. 
Closing out the A-2 division is Knott Hall at 1-2. Knott has yet to play Howard and Walsh, and could possibly make some noise in the playoffs with two season­ending victories. 
The women's B division con­
sists of only four teams. The B 
division has shown more parity 
than the other two divisions. 
Siegfried B holds first place 
with a 4-1 record followed by 
BTTCG (3-2), Breen-Pt :Hips B 
(2-3), then Lyons B (1-4). 
In last Sunday's action, 
Breen-Phillips B obliterated 
see WOMEN I page 14 

Irish baseball squad opens season today 
It looks like the Notre Dame 
baseball team just couldn't 
wait to get things started this 
season. 
The Irish will start their 

season today, more than two 
weeks earlier than scheduled, 

when they host Goshen at 3:30 
p.m. at Jake Kline Field. Notre Dame had not been expected to start its season until Feb. 23, when the Irish begin a three-game series at Hawaii. 
Goshen and Notre Dame agreed to play this garnn only in the last few days. 
Notre Dame is coming off a 48-19 season that included its first appearance in the NCAA Tournament since 1970. The Midwest Collegiate Conference champions finished the 1989 campaign ranked 23rd in the nation. 
I didn't know whether to laugh or cry last weekend when former Marquette coach AI McGuire babbled on national television about how his old school had just joined the "Metro Cities Conference." 
You know you conference has really hit the depths when people don't even bother remembering what "MCC" stands for. The way Notre Dame has dominated the Midwest Col­legiate Conference ever since climbing aboard two years ago, it may as well be called the Michiana Country Club. 
Sure, the MCC is one heck of a soccer conference, and has had some pretty competitive baseball as well. But other than that, it merely has served as an opportunity for Notre Dame to showcase its non-revenue sports. 
Let's take a look at some of the MCC's most recent con­
ference winners.: 
Golf: Notre Dame 
Track: Notre Dame 

Men's cross country: Notre Dame 
Men's swimming: Notre Dame 
Women's swimming: Notre Dame 
Women's basketball: Notre Dame 
Baseball: Notre Dame 

You get the picture. The problem for the MCC is that the Irish domination shows no signs of letting up. 
In women's basketball, the Irish are undefeaated in league play and outscoring MCC foes by an average of more than 20 points per game. The men's and women's swim teams both are strong favorites to defend their MCC titles this weekend. 
It's getting to the point where the MCC might be more competitive for the Irish in men's basketball than it is for Notre Dame's so-called "Olympic sports." Xavier, Saint Louis and Marquette all figure to reach either the NCAA or NIT tournaments this year. 
But even the MCC's relative strength in men's basketball probably will change when coaches like Xavier's Pete Gillen and Evansville's Jim Crews leave for greener pastures. 
The question is whether Notre Dame should do the same. The way the Irish have bullied MCC opponents in practically 
see ITEMS I page 14 









