
VOL. XXIII NO. 33 WEDNESDAY , OCTOBER 10, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NO slips, SMC climbs in national report 
Notre Dame left out of Top 25 national list Saint Mary's ranked fourth 
By MONICA YANT Top 25 three years ago, the veys "to confirm the wisdom of By CORINNE PAVLIS data with the results of a U.S. Associate News Editor first year U.S. News & World a decision already made." Saint Mary's Editor News and World Report survey Heport came out with the rank­The magazine bases a 
of academic reputations. Thisings. Two years ago ND ranked school's ranking on five cate­Saint Mary's has been ranked year, a record 60.1 percent ofNotre Dame was not included 18th and last year 23rd, he gories: reputation, selectivity, fourth among midwestern re­4,131 college presidents, deans, 

on the list of Top 25 national said. faculty resources, financial re­gional colleges and universities and admissions directorsuniversities for 1990, according According to Rooney, NO's sources and student satisfac­by U.S. News and World responded to the survey. 
to U.S. News & World Heport's omission from the list of top tion. Financial resources ac­Report. 
The report analyzed the fol­

annual rankings. schools is "a reflection of the counted for 20 percent of the For the fourth time in as lowing five key attributes inThe Oct. IS issue of the magazine changing its criteria final score, while student satis­many years, U.S. News and each school's overall rank: rep­magazine ranked the University each year." He said that faction was five percent. World Report has included utation, selectivity, faculty re­in the first quartile, the best of protests from schools not Reputation, selectivity, and fac­Saint Mary's in its annual re­sources, and student satisfac­four subgroups for schools not making previous lists may be ulty resources each counted 25 port on American higher educa­tion. Scores in the five cate­included in the Top 25 of their responsible for the adjust­percent of a school's score. tion. This year's ranking is up gories for each school wererespective categories. ments. In the 1989 rankings, ND was three places from last year's converted into percentiles. 
Notre Dame was ranked 23rd In 1987-88, when Notre 6th in the nation in student re­seventh place spot. 
The schools were then numer­

in the nation last year. Dame did not make the list, the tention, 18th in selectivity, 27th The Oct. 15 issue grouped ically ranked in order for each"We think we're among the Admissions office received the in reputation, 53rd in faculty Saint Mary's among those insti­
of the five attributes which

top undergraduate institutions "biggest jump in applications in quality, and 122nd in financial tutions in the region that were weighted. Reputation, se­in the country," said University our history," according to resources, according to award more than half of their lectivity, and faculty resourcesPresident father Edward Rooney. Because of ironies like Rooney. 
bachelor's degrees in two or each contributed twenty-fiveMalloy. "I think a lot of us look this, he said the University Although Notre Dame has an more occupational or profes­percent to the schools score.
at the Top 25 schools and sus­should "not lose any sleep" endowment in the top 20 in the sional disciplines, and that Financial Resources counted
pHct a lot of it [their ranking] is about being overlooked this nation, the poor showing in fi­combine the kinds of programs for twenty percent. Studenteoncerned with their graduate year. nancial resources may be at­
found at large state universities satisfaction was worth five
schools." "We haven't changed," said tributed to the University's li­with the intimate settings of percent of the Ranking.llarvard topped the list of na­Dick Conklin, director of Public brary budget, which is "not small liberal arts colleges. Saint Mary's overall scoretional universities. followed by Relations and Information. "If among the leaders," according 
Ranging in size from 822 to was a 93.1. It ranked first in
Stanford. Yale, Princeton, and we belonged lin the top 25] last to Rooney. He said that gov­35,582 students, the rankings student satisfaction, fourth inCalifornia Institute of year, we do this year." ernment funding tends to be considered 561 regional financial resources, and six­
Technology. "If anything, I think we're a "rather low" because Notre schools. U.S. News and World teenth in selectivity. 
"I don't have the slightest better University today than we Dame has fewer research pro­Report estimates that 3.4 mil­Student satisfaction was
idea why we slipped," said were two years ago," he added. grams than other schools and lion students attend these insti­assessed by a school's ability to
Kevin Hooney, director of ad­Conklin said, "Most people does not have a medical school. tutions. The report divides the graduate the students it admits missions, "It's just another who send their sons and daugh­This year's profile of Notre 
colleges into four regions: as freshmen. Ninety percent of 
mass media circus as far as I'm ters to Notre Dame don't need Dame shows a 1220 average North, South, Midwest, and Saint Mary's freshmen continueconcerned." a survey to confirm their West. 
on as sophomores. More than

Notre Dame did not make the choice," instead using the sur-see NO 1page 7 
The ratings are based on a system that combines statistical see SMCI page 7 
Soviet official teaches at ND 
By PATRICK HEALY cause it is hard to make com­book. He compared this to the 
News Writer parisons to the Soviet Union United States immigration law when political developments material in his office, large vol­there are happening so rapidly. umes that filled up an entire 
Igor Grazin, a member of the He has been spending much of bookshelf. Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.H., his time since his arrival Grazin is using his time awayis teaching comparative consti­preparing his lectures. from class to write a book on tutional government as a visit­Compared to law students in the recent events in Estonia. He ing professor at Notre Dame Estonia, Grazin said that the said being immersed in the this scholastic year. students at Notre Dame "work Supreme Soviet day after day
This is Grazin's second trip to much, much more." This was representing Estonia makes it the United States. His first was due to the to stronger competi­difficult "to grasp general ten­to Montana two years ago with tion among American students dencies" in the political climate. an Estonian delegation called to achieve a profession "not as His stay at Notre Dame awaythe Society of Friendship of highly prestigious" in the from the Soviet Union gives him 
Foreign Countries. There he · U.S.S.R. as in this country. "time and space" which helps met representatives from Notre The volume of work American give him an objective view of Dame, who were with the law students must learn is far the events he is involved in back 
The Observer/Bridget Zappa 
American counterpart to the greater than that in the Soviet home. Society, the Friendship Force. Union and particularly Estonia, Grazin's mission in the 
Sensible diet 
University Food Services executive chef Denis Ellis sautees a fish as 
Teaching his comparative he said. To emphasize his point, Supreme Soviet was to help the 
part of a meal that conforms to his idea of a balanced meal for a dieting 
constitutional law class is Grazin held up the civil law 
person. Ellis and dietician Becky Cook lectured on dieting Tuesday. 
"troublesome," Grazin said, be-code fQr Estonia, a thin hand-see SOVIET I page 4 

Former sex institute director says there is no single cause for homosexual behavior 
By  BRADLEY  GALKO  distinct  types.  He  added,  "I  there's something there,"  he  
Assistant News Editor  think we should keep the behav­ said, "some predisposition ...  
ioral  and  psychological  but we haven't found it."  
There is  no  single  cause  of  (homosexualities) separate."  Gebhard dismissed the notion  
homosexuality,  according  to  He also dispelled many mis­ that homosexuality is "against  
Paul Gebhard, professor emeri­ conceptions about the causes of  nature."  He  said,  
tus of anthropology at Indiana  homosexuality. "There is (sic)  "homosexuality  occurs  in  all  
University and former director  no  genetic  differences  that  animals except those that are  
ol' the Kinsey Institute  on  Sex  cause homosexuality," he said.  hostile during the mating sea­ 
Hnsearch.  However,  he  added,  "there  son."  
At the first in series of lec­ seems to be some neurological  He added that former studies  
tures  on  homosexuality spon­ predisposition to homosexuality  said that there existed no ex­ 
sored by  some  fifteen depart­ in some cases."  clusively, predominantly homo­ 
ments and units of the Univer­ He cited a  study by Hichard  sexual animal in nature.  "We  
sity, Gebhard said "the causa­tion of homosexuality is multi­factorial."  Green in which young effeminite boys were compared to non-ef­feminite boys. Years later, the  can't say that any longer," he said, "only of mammals." He cited species of seagulls and  
"There are different kinds of  incidence of adult homosexual­ lizards as examples of animals  
homosexuality," he said, each  ity of both groups  was  com­ that are  exclusively predomi­ 
with different causes. He men­ pared. The incidence in effemi­ nantly homosexual.  
tioned behavioral and psycho­logical homosexuality as two  nite boys was significantly greater. "It makes you think  see GEBHARD I page 6  



CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
page 2 
-----. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Applause for team shows 
NO's integrity 
With six seconds left to go, I never stopped believing that we'd pull it off. 
Neither did anyone else around me. I guess that's why I felt so empty after the 
Siobhan 
final play of the game 

Saturday, as Derek McCarthy Brown pounded his News Copy Editor fists over and over again in agonizing frustration. 
It wasn't his fault--everyone in that stadium knew that the last six seconds of the game couldn't make up for an hour's worth of mistakes. 
It was a moment of awkward uncertainty for everyone. The Stanford players and fans were going nuts over their unexpected victory, as the mighty Notre Dame football team, humbled, headed back to the locker room. 
And then, out of the stunned silence, the clapping began. I've never felt such immense pride as I did at that moment in being a part of the Notre Dame family. 
That applause symbolized every reason why I chose to attend this University. We, though defeated, clapped in the spirit of fair play and good sportsmanship. The spirit of our response was something that none of the T.V. cameras could have captured on film, or perfectly executed plays could ever hope to replace. 
That took class. That took ND. 
Notre Dame is more than just a school with an incredible football team. It is a body of students committed to integrity. We are the dreamers, the competitors, the involved. We are the players in life who can take a loss in stride and move on to win in the end, anyway. 


As a freshman, I have slowly learned that 
everyone here is faced with challenge. Those 
of us used to making straight A's are now 
making C's. Those of us to being first 
string don't even get to play anymore. 
Those of us used to winning have lost for 
the first time ever. And it hurts. 
The one (and perhaps only) thing that I've 
realized since I've arrived is that we are 
here to learn from our mistakes. We must 
stand behind our ideals. All of our big 
speeches at the beginning of the year won't 
mean anything without actions to back 
them up. 
Don't flinch. 

Learn from the valedictorians and team 
captains in this world. Do the best you can 
do. Be proud of the results of your work, 
whether good or bad. No matter how 
difficult, work together and challenge 
others with an attitude of good 
sportsmanship, not cut-throat opposition. 
More importantly, applaud those who 
beat you. Learn from the fierce opposition 
at the other end of the arena. 
You never know, you might perhaps wind 
up teaching them a thing or two. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  
News  Sports  
Carolyn Amann  Chris CoonE!Y  
Paul Pearson  
Mike Owens Accent Paige A. Smoron  Production Jeanne Blasi Cris Ortiz  Systems Mark Sloan Mike Murphy  
John Fischer Ad Design  Viewpoint Becky Pichler Kathy Welsh  Graphics Michael Muldoon  
Kelly McHugh Jean-Philippe Thole Maria Blohm  Scoreboard Rene Ferran  Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
·------------~---------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1990
------·----...
WEATHER Forecast for Wednesday, Sept. 10. 
lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
• •COLD  • • WARM  •• • STATIONARY  
Pressure  
®  ©  ~  ~  m  

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
"International Students: The Job Search" will be held tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Career and Placement Service Conference Room. Topics to be discussed: resume and cover letter writing; utilizing career and placement resources; understanding visa status in regard to em­ployment. All international students are encouraged to at­tend. 
"Meet Washington" is holding a meeting in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune at 7 p.m. The topic will be "Striking Workers: Should We Hire Permanent Replacements?" Mike Lawrence of the Teamsters Union will be present to lead the discussion. 
NATIONAL 
John Lennon's worldwide message of peace was delivered Tues­day as his song "Imagine" was played simultaneously for 1 billion people in 130 countries to celebrate what would have been his 50th birthday. "A dream we dream alone is only a dream, but the dream we dream together is real­ity. Happy birthday, 

John. The world is better today for sharing a time with you," Yoko Ono said at a United Nations ceremony before the playing of "Imagine." Lennon was shot to death by a deranged fan outside his Manhattan apartment building on Dec. 8, 1980. 
INDIANA 
The lure of large jackpots in the multi-state Lotto America should give a lift to sales of all Hoosier Lottery games, officials in Indianapolis said Tuesday. To cele­brate its first anniversary, the Hoosier Lottery will join the multi-state game on Oct. 14, giving Indiana players the chance to buy chances for jackpots that often reach the $15 million to $20 million range. "We really anticipate by joining Lotto America, our entire line of lottery offer­ings will benefit," said Hoosier Lottery Director John Weliever. Indiana will become the 13th and largest state 
to join the multi-state game. 
The twelfth annual Arts and Letters Career Day, sponsored by Notre Dame's Career and Placement Services office, will be held Thursday from noon to. 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). Students from all colleges will be welcome. Representatives from more than thirty industries will have booths at this career fair. They will provide interested stu­dents with information they may find helpful in their exploration of career possibilities. Among the industries represented will be: advertising, fi­nancial services, journalism, personnel manage­ment, publishing, and public relations. 

NYSE Index  
167.41  ..  4.24  
S&P Composite  .1IL  
289.71  'if'  8.27  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,445.54 +78.22 Precious Metals Gold +$4.80 to $389.70/oz. Sliver+ 7.7¢ to $4.593/oz. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold a Hospitality Luncheon tomorrow from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. Please come to the CSC tomorrow to enjoy some Puerto Rican food and to support the Hispanic Women's Coalition. 
Saint Mary's Founder's Day will be cele­brated tomorrow. A reception for faculty/staff/students will be held from noon until 1 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. There will also be a giveaway outside of Haggar from 12 
p.m. to 2 p.m. 
The Sophomore Spaghetti Social will be held to­day at Saint Mary's. The social, open to Saint Mary's sophomores, will be held in the residence halls. For more information, please see the Sophomore Social Newsletter. 
Sexual harassment of female students at the Naval Academy is widespread, and some victims don't complain openly for fear of reprisal, according to an in­ternal academy report released Tuesday."In such a cli­mate it is not surprising that some midshipmen have lost the ability to distinguish a blatant incident of sexual ha­rassment from routine pranks," it said. The report by a seven-member panel of academy faculty, military staff and midshipmen said immediate action is needed to cor­rect the conditions allowing mistreatment of women. 
Purdue University scientists are working toward NASA's grand dream: small, self-supporting colonies of astronauts living on the moon by 2010 and on Mars by 2020. Under a $5 million grant from the National Aero­nautics and Space Administration, Purdue will attempt to create an enclosed system that relies on four crops to provide oxygen, water and a vegetarian diet. The center initially will focus on three plants that will comprise a complete diet for the astronauts. Cowpeas, a relative of black-eyed peas; brassica, a mustard-like plant; and two strains of rice are being studied. 
On October 10: 
eJn 1845: The U.S. Naval Academy opened in Annapolis, Md. 
eJn 1886: The tuxedo dinner jacket made its American debut at the autumn ball in Tuxedo Park, N.Y. 
eJn 1911: Revolutionaries under Sun Vat-sen overthrew China's Manchu dynasty. 
eJn 1973: Vice President Spiro Agnew, accused of accepting bribes, pleaded no contest to one count of federal income tax evasion, and re­signed his office. 
e Ten years ago: some 4,500 people died when a pair of earthquakes struck northwestern Al­geria. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
0 ~  Exxx~  
FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Yesterday's High: 46 Yesterday's Low: 43 Nation's High: 99 (Monrovia, Calif.) Nation's Low: 2 (Laramie, Wyo.) 
Forecast: Cloudy today with a 90 percent chance of rain, possibly heavy at times. The high will be in the upper 40's. Cloudy tonight with a 70 percent chance of rain and a low in the upper 40's. Cloudy tomorrow with a 50 percent chance of rain and a high in the middle to upper 50's . 
--._--~ 

Wednesday, October 10, 1990 The Observer page 3 

APPhoto 
Bombarded 
Dillon Boulder, 4, and his sister Jodi, 6, right, bomb Bobby Trommeter. 8, with snowballs Monday as the trio play in the first snowfall of the season in Denver. Four inches of snow fell in the city of Denver. 
A very special thank you to our incredibly 
loyal customers and an invitation to our 
future friends. 

Come celebrate this anniversary occasion with us and take advantage of these once a year savings!
, ,
-----" ----­
Sc-:turday Suna::~y
I ONLY I I ONLY " I 
:SAVE 50~ I I FREE·! I I 
on the purchase of any Buy one medium or large
I Parfait when you preser'lt I I cup or cake cone and I this coupon.. receive the second oneI I I FREE with this coupon. I 
I Oct.13 ~I I Oct.14 ~~ 
'----_-;_-~ \. ---_-;,;:-~ 
1635 Edison Rd. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 217-9540 (2 BlockS East of NO Stadium) 
Not good With IY1Y other coupon or promotton 
IV. pert1C1pat1ng stcns ootv. 

Most people who lose weight gain it back, dietician says 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
Ninety-five percent of all in­dividuals who lose weight gain it back within a year, according to Becky Cook, a therapist and dietician. 

People put the weight back on because they discontinue their program when they have at­tained their goal, she said. A good eating program is one which the individual can follow for the rest of his life, Cook ex­plained. 
Cook, an employee of the Helpful Options For Problem Eaters (HOPE) program and of Memorial Hospital, spoke Tuesday along with Denis Ellis, chef of University Food Services. Their demonstration concerned "Fad Diets vs. Good Diets: learning to effectively plan and organize your meals." 
While Ellis provided instruc­tion and demonstration on preparing breakfast, a brown bag lunch, and supper, Cook spoke about the drawbacks of fad diets and the assets of healthy ones. 
In the 1980's, the fad diet in­dustry made about $110 billion, Cook said, and this profit is in­creasing. The creators of the diets make them sound good, said Cook, but the information they provide does not necessar­ily have to be true to print. The FDA does not have power to 

regulate things in print, she said. 
Cook cautioned listeners about the two categories of fad options. Diet pills act as ap­petite suppressants, but they also cause high blood pressure, a problem which many over­weight individuals already face. Fad diets offer quick solutions with instant gratification, but they often rid the body of mus­cle or water weight, instead of body fat. 
In addition, fad diets fail to teach the individual to perma­nently modify the eating habits which caused the weight gain in the first place. Consequently, the individual should not expect to keep the weight off for long,
she said. 
Cook commented on metabolism as well, stating that eating breakfast instantly raises one's metabolism for the day. On the other hand, two days of eating nothing results in a 40 percent reduction in metabolism. 
"There is no quick easy way to lose weight, because we want to lose body fat, not water or muscle," said Cook. One can recognize fad diets by their sensational claims, extremely rapid weight loss, lack of one or more of the four food groups, and requirement of special foods, books, devices, or fees, she said. 
Cook described the ideal weight loss program as one containing at least 1,200 calo-
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS-No Sales PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 15 WPM, enjoy talking with people, anllable for en•i•& and weekend shifts. All tralnlna proYided 
$5.00-$12.00/hour 
121 S. Niles An. Emporium Bide. 2nd fl. 282-2754 
ries per day from the four food groups, acceptable foods based upon a person's preferences and accessibility, elimination of bad eating habits, an exercise program, and new habits which can continue for a lifetime. 
Ellis provided helpful advice on how to improve one's eating habits. He began by preparing breakfast while his assistant set the table. He explained that "you have to be organized in the kitchen ... and create a con­ducive environment to bring the family together." He recom­mended setting the table and preparing the meal, as much as possible, the night before. 
"Meals should have eye ap­peal," said Ellis as he placed a slice of orange on the rim of a glass of juice. "The family can come down to a table that looks inviting...then we can create the good habits," he said. 
Ellis prepared breakfast, a brown bag lunch and dinner. He pointed out that the prepa­ration of a healthy meal does not take much time. "Combine practicality with variety," he said. 
"Vary your lunches so that 
you don't get bored with them," 
added Cook. "It's hard to 
change old habits. It's not 
easy, it's not fast, it takes ef­
fort, it takes time," she said. 
But a oermnn~>nt rhal)rt" 1." .-.at_ 
ing habits is the only way to 
maintain weight loss, she 
asserted. 
ftAmerican Heart -y-Association 


For more information and a complimentary brochure, calll-800-822-1998. Gatlinburg Chamber of Conunerce, P.O. Box 527, Gatlinburg, TN 37738 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, October 10. 1990 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 

Baltic states "prepare politi­cally, intellectually, and legally" for negotiations between the states and the Soviets on inde­pendence. He said his "legal po­sition is ambiguous" because during negotiations he cannot represent Estonia due to his membership in the Supreme Soviet. Alternately, he is viewed in Moscow as a member of the separatist movement. 
Grazin said he is optimistic about independence for the Baltic states. He said that "I am a politician," and that "politicians are professional optimists." He said politics without the probability or pos­sibility of success "would be a waste of time and nerves." 
The 500 day plan toward a market economy underway in the Soviet Union is "the only way out" of the country's des­perate economic situation, ac­cording to Grazin. He said that over the last two or three years "Gorbachev has wasted his time reserves," and that "for citi­zens, this winter will be very difficult" in the U.S.S.R. 
Grazin stated he thought con­servatives in the government will end up "unemployed," and that being that the most power­ful of them will likely just retire due to their age. Grazin said he knew of mid-level apparatchiks in Czechoslovakia who are presently making their living driving taxis. 
WEAR IT WITH CLASS! l 
Low productivity in the Soviet Union is due to "psychological factors," said Grazin. He said citizens are unsure of the eco­nomic and political future of their country and have no trust in their leaders, "this govern­ment in particular," who have lied to them repeatedly. 
· Grazin said now "is not the proper time for United States investment" in the Soviet Union, and that the anticipated effect of such investment is "overestimated." He said in­vestment by the U.S. would be more helpful "five to ten years down the road" when the Soviet market is prepared. 
More helpful assistance from the U.S., according to Grazin, would be "intellectual assis­tance" in teaching managers in Soviet financial institutions market strategies. 
Grazin said that he intends to learn more about American law while at Notre Dame. In his leisure time, Grazin would like to attend some student theater productions as well as classical plays to gain insights into American culture by observing their interpretations. 
Grazin, a professor of law at Tartu State University in Esto­nia, is at Notre Dame after be­ing named the Paul J. Scheir/Fort Howard Corpora­tion distinguished visiting pro­fessor of ethics at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Grazin's wife, Elena, is a lawyer as well as a specialist in American language and litera­ture. They have a two-and-a­half year old son whom they in­tend to enroll in nursery school to interact with American chil­dren. 
Doctoral candidate from Seoul receives fellowship 
Special to the Observer 
Jina Paik, a Notre Dame doc­toral candidate in sociology and a flative of Seoul, South Korea, has been awarded a fel­lowship from the Educational Foundation of the American Association of University Women (AAUW). 
This year, more than 2,500 women applied for AAUW Educational Foundation fellow­ships and grants, and 257 were successful. The recipients, in-
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRG;RAM®
-

1990 Cora{ Vodge Irisli ![a{{ C{assic 
9{ptre 'Dame vs. Jl.ir :Jorce 
rrft.urstiay, Octo6er 11, 7:00 pm :JrUfay, Octo6er 12, 8:30pm Covefe.sfj Statiium, Soutli 13eru£ 

J!ee 6us transportation 
Leaving tlie :Main (jate starting at 6:00 rrliurstiay aru£ from (jate 10 fo[[owing tlie Pep 'j@[[y :JrUfay 
Irisli 13ase6a[[ is 6ackJ 
•'.Free. admission witli 'B[ue and (jofd Card 
eluding scholars, community activists and teachers, are cho­sen for exceptional talent and ability. 
The Educational Foundation of the AAUW, the oldest and largest non-institutional source of funding for graduate educa­tion of women, will award more than $2 million in fellowships and grants for 1990-91. Stipends for the American Fellowships Program range from $12,500 to $25,000. 
American Heart Association 


I!  The Castle & Co. Men's Hairstyling  :!  
I  YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS,  I  
;  WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT?  I  
1 Haircut. ~poo, Blow Dry & Condition : Reg. $15.00  : 1  
I  Now $8.50 with  1  
:  coupon  ;  






-------------·-----------· 
I MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1 I 272-0312 277-1691 1 I 54533 Terrace Lane I I Across from Martin's I 
·------------------------­Whenthe Great 


Ameriam Dream 
isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

Wednesday, October 10, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Holy Cross 
HPC rejects Student Senate 
Animal research is
prof. tal~s at decision on Coming Out Day

sympOSIUm vital, doctor says 
By AMY MARK As a result of the rejection, News Writer the council will rewrite the res­Special to the Observer By SHANNON RYAN that "suffering is not good olution to dispel any implica­News Writer science. We [scientists] are not tions they felt the Senate's res­Winifred Caponigri, professor 
out to inflict pain upon ani­
The Hall Presidents' Council olution created, primarily toof geology at Holy Cross Col­Continued biomedical ad­mals." He further defended re­(HPC) Tuesday rejected the establish acceptance of freedom lege since 1969, is participating vancement includes the contin­searchers by pointing out that Student Senate resolution con­of sexual orientation, in accor­by invitation in the "First In­ued practice of animal re­the laws governing animal re­demning discrimination, ha­dance with the Catholic andternational Symposium on En­search, said Richard Doyle, searchers are extensive. 
rassment, and violence against University perspective of thisvironmental Studies on Tropical M.D., chairman of the St. Louis Principles guiding responsible any student, and recognizing issue. A committee of members Hain Forests," October 7-13, University School of Medicine. research, according to Doyle, October 11, 1990, as National will rewrite it, based on the ini­1990 in Manaus, Amazon, "Until recently, there were no include restricting the use of Coming Out Day . tial discussion and explanationBrazil. ql'~stions about using animals; animals to projects where other HPC member Maureen Con­for disapproval, and present aThe symposium will cover the point was, if you used them, methods are inadequate or nelly summed up the reasoning revision at their next meeting.
themes relatnd to tropical rain you must use them humanely," inappropriate, minimi~ing the behind a 19-4 decision against In other business, the HPC:forest neosystems, their dynam­said Doyle. "Animal rights is a number of animals used, care­the resolution: "Students areies and sustainability, and new phenomenon." fully designing studies to yield making too many inferences •Discussed ways to encourageman's interference and im­Animal rights groups, accord­clear-cut results and treating based on fears they may have, students not to participate inpacts. The Amazon Hegion will ing to Doyle, attempt to confer ..the animals in a humane fash­and they should be more open­the annual snowball fight,be emphasized. human rights upon animals and ion. 
minded about it...the HPC is which is against ND principlesThe event will include techni­present them as equals. The ac­Further, Doyle said, every re­going to clarify some of these and will be strictly prohibited; eal sessions with oral presenta­tivists are therefore opposed to search institution must have an issues ... " tions, round tables, poster ses­any use of animals by humans, Animal Care Committee com­The council expressed that •Heard from Julie Wright,sions, field trips, international "regardless of the beneficial prised of at least one DVM, one the Senate's resolution was too chapter director of the Bestorganization meetings, and a impact on mankind." scientist, one non-scientist vague regarding the principle Buddies program;social program. "We have so much to be (such as an ethicist, lawyer, or that the University does notThe aim of this symposium proud of," said Doyle, citing the condone non-marital sexual ac­•Heard from Cristin Costello,will be to compile a document discovery of antibiotics, hor­clergyman) and one person not tivity, whether heterosexual or executive coordinator of special which will help produce future mones, and DNA. "Those of us affiliated with the institution to homosexual, but does accept projects in the Student Gov­strategies for the Amazon Re­involved in animal research represent the interests of the freedom of sexual orientation. ernment and Chairperson ofgion. Caponigri will participate wonder why does the problem general community. It is the Chad Tate, president of Grace ND United Way, about resultsin group discussions on Geo­[with animal rights' activists] responsibility of this committee Hall, opposed the resolution from the Quarter Mile eventmorphology, Environmental persist?" to report any violations to the because he felt it was incon­and upcoming activities; and Geochemistry and Environmen­In response to accusations of United States Department of gruent with the Catholic per­tal Education. animal cruelty, Doyle responded Agriculture and the Public spective from which the Univer­•Heard from Tim Phelan, of­Health Service. 
These measures, according to sity policy is derived. ficer of the ND Boxing Club. Doyle, coupled with the Con­gressional mandates in the Animal Welfare Act and self­

Clarification tributed to crazed person
NOTRE DAME 

assessments by researchers 
because his actions can be

themselves, ensure humane 
explained, if not justified, by

treatment for lab animals.

VS MIAMI 
In an article in The Ob­his desire to seek access to
Doyle projects that the future 
server of Tuesday, Oct. 2 the Gulf waterway. 
of animal research will include 
there were errors in the re­•Matta stated that a war 
an emphasis on quality lab an­
OCTOBER 20, 1990 
porting of a lecture given by in the Gulf cannot be won
imals that are purpose-bred, a 
Professor Khalil Matta. through air strikes alone. A
stabilization of research stan­
•During the talk, Matta quick victory cannot be
dards, a more stringent proto­
made the point that, while achieved except through the
col review, and a reversal of the 
many Arabs view the inva­use of U.S. ground forces.
research community's position 
sion of Kuwait as an internal •Finally, Matta said the
On the evening of October 20 last 
from defense to offense. 
Arab problem, many others U.S. is going to end up stay­
year, Zheng-de Wang. a Notre Dame 
"The results of stopping ani­
sympathize with the Kuwaiti ing in the Gulf for a long pe­
mal research now would be
graduate student from Tianjin, 
people and their plight. riod of time, and that the
disastrous," said Doyle. "We
<:hina, wasstruckclown byacarwhile 
•In addition, he said that longer the U.S. stays, the
have made much progress, but
walking on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Saddam Hussein's actions greater the possibility of a
there is certainly much farther
Zheng-cle had already received his 
should not be simply at-war erupting.
to go."

master's degree in sociology, was 

pursuing a donora! degree and was hoping to ,;,;tain .~ law from Notre l~an~e fi>r w~at would rertainlv have been a distinguished career m mternallonal law. Lfninsu;·ed at the time of the accident, Zhcng-de was severely injured and comatose for several months. Now confined to a wheelchair and undergoing therapy. Zhcng-de is able to recognize old fr.iends and t~> mo\'t' his fingns filr rudimentary communication, hut Ius recovery ts br from complete and far from certain. . . . 
Profit'i derived from the sales of thts T -shtrt wtll be donated to Zht•ng-dc's family for the enormous expenses thi'i tragedy has innictcd on them. 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO. DESK, BOOKSTORE, PRO SHOPS, & G.S.U. OFFICE (30! LA FORTUNE) 
LOST HORIZONS IMPORTS Handmade Crafts From Nepal and Tibet 
BeautifulHatulknit Sweaters Colorful Handwoven Cotton & 
Wool Bags Traditional Tibetan Clothing Unique Tibetan & Nepalijewelry 
Sale held in Dooley Room at LaFortune Student Union 
8AM-5PM 

October 8th -12th 
Sponsored by Student Activities 
~---------­

The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1990
page 6 

ND students pray at second protest at local abortion clinic 
By L. PETER YOB clinic a week from Friday. stated that "freedom of speech 
Assistant News Editor Students "will be out (at the works both ways," and ex­clinic) before fall break," she pressed his dissatisfaction with said. the leadership of the Catholic 
A group of four Notre Dame Church. students met yesterday to pray The early afternoon traffic and show their opposition to was light around the clinic dur­Cara Patton, a Notre Dame abortion outside a local clinic ing the protest yesterday, and freshman who was at both where doctors routinely per­traffic into and out of the protests said that the same form abortions. clinic's parking lot seemed doctor parked his truck in 
The students, who stood in unaffected by the students. front of the protesters last the cold and blowing rain for a week, so that they would not be little over an hour, said a According to a court order, visible. Keen asked why, "if rosary and prayed for "greater the protesters are prohibited abortion is such a wonderful respect for human life." from, among other things, en­thing," does the clinic "close all 
The protest, which was the tering the property of the clinic, the shades" to their lobby? second in as many weeks at the harassing or coming within ten Keen said their protest was a clinic, is part of a continued ef-· feet of patients of the clinic and "peaceful demonstration" as fort on the part of pro-life stu­taking photographs. The opposed to other abortion 
dents to "try to develop aware­protesters obeyed the order protests around the nation. ness" about the clinic and abor­yesterday, remaining in an ad­"There are other methods," tion, according to Elsa jacent parking lot and speaking added Scheidler. Schiedler, a Notre Dame junior softly so that patients in the Elsa Scheidler is the niece of who attended the protest. clinic could not hear them. Joe Scheidler, who will take the 
Bill Keen, a sophomore from "Help us Lord, to realize what pro-life position in a debate to ND who led the rosary, said abortion really is ... " the stu­be held at Notre Dame in early that abortions are performed dents asked in their prayers. November. at the clinic on Tuesdays, "Help us carry the crosses you Keen said that "it doesn't Wednesdays and Fridays, and give us," they asked. matter how many people come" that the students planned to The clinic employees had no to the protests. "Through our protest there twice per month. comment when asked their example we want others to see 
Schiedler said that students opinion of the protest, however that pro-lifers are dedicated," may return to protest at the a doctor entering the clinic he said. 


American Heart ft Association ~ 

Gebhard 
continued from page 1 
Addressing the causes of sex­ual behavior in mammals Geb­hard said that all mammals ex­hibit two types of behavior: "mounting behavior" (typically male behavior) which is heavily dependant on male hormones and "mounted behavior" (typically female behavior) which is heavily dependent on female hormones. 
"Both patterns (mounting and mounted) exist in both males and females. Both pat-

By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
The Persian Gulf crisis has left Notre Dame's foreign study program in Jerusalem in a cloud of uncertainty. 
On Saturday, the State Department issued a warning suggesting that Americans avoid travelling in the Persian Gulf and Israeli-occupied terri­tories. "We don't know yet" how the Jerusalem Program scheduled for the Spring semester will be affected by this warning, said Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of Foreign Study Programs. 
Charles said that her office will "keep in touch with the State Department" to monitor the situation and will see if the terns are present in humans," he said. He added, "masculinity and femininity is not a one-line scale," implying one does not exist at the expense of the other. 

Homosexuality in humans is not however caused by hormone imbalances as it is in other mammals. "By the time you get up to primates," he said, "they're almost emancipated from hormonal control . . . Humans for all practical pur­poses are emancipated from hormonal control." 
NO Jerusalem program left uncertain by Gulf conflicts 
warning is still in effect at the end of this semester. 
Students who attended the program's informational meet­ing were told that the program will take place "only if it is safe," said Charles. 
She also said that if the pro­gram proceeds as scheduled and then the situation in the gulf worsens, the students would be brought home. 
Charles said that of the min­imum ten applications needed for the program to take place, five have been received so far. The application process will continue through Oct. 15. 
She added that no other for­eign study programs will be af­fected by the gulf situation. 
NEED 3 GA'S TOGETHER FOR I NEED 8 PENN ST GA's AND test text
Need 2 GA's and 2 STUDS for AIR FORCE. CALL MAn AT ALL I HAVE IS$$$ CALL TIM Miami. Call Bob at 233-8959. 288-7568. HELP ME!!!! I NEED 1 AIR @283-2704


Class 

FORCE STUDENT TICKET. If continued from page 1 0 you have one, please call Michelle test#2For Sale: 2 Stud Miami nx I need 4 Air Force GA's == Call x3879. NEED 2 MIAMI GA BO by Thurs X2206 Holly at X4492 #2790I Need PSU GA's Call Beth 288-0597 lest#3
I NEED 2 AF GAs ********50 YD. LINE•-***** I need 4 Air Force GAs! FOR SALE: TWO MIAMI AND 1
CALL THERESA@ 3617 INDULGE YOURSELF !!!I Parents and Sibs never been AIR FORCE STUD TIX. CALL Elizabeth Crisp you are the best 
MIAMI STUDENT to NO. Call Amy 284-5461 KEVIN AT X1409WANTED: One student ticket sister ever.
TIX FOR SALE for Air Force. Call3022 and Love, John LV. OFFER CHRIS #4814 name your price. 
••••••••so YD. LINE**••••• I NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S !!! CALL 
I NEED MIAMI AND Pin TIX JOE x1307 !!! 
CALL PAT 234-8608 
There will be an INVESTMENT CLUB meeting tonight at 7pm 

GET TOP 

NEED AIR FORCE G.A. 
Need two Air Force stud. or 
FOR YOUR in Rm. 124 Hayes-Healy. All

MIKE X1626 PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED 4 AF I HATE MIAMI AND I WANT TOG.A."s Please call Mike x4051 members are encouraged toGA'S. CALL BARRY @1765 SELL YOU MY STD. TIX. BEST attend!
OFFER!!! CALL 273-9316 
NOTRE DAME 

FOOTBALL TICKET 

AIR FORCE 2 GA'S & 2 STUD NEED 2 PENN ST GA's & Molly-hey, amazing roomie!! 
4 SALE X 1167 Ill!! HELP!!!!! 
WANTED: 2 G.A TICKETS FORSTUDENT TICKETS. 

1-800-733-8499 
Be carefuHapanese beer can beNEED 4 PENN STATE GAs TENN. GAME. (404) 923-4707. 

CALL STEVE @1453 hazardous to your health! 

CALL ANN at x4872 
ASK FOR PAUL 

MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE! 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA"S 


ALL SALES 

OK, I STILL NEED TWO MIAMI Divorced Alum Dad in Houston CALL X3797 STU. TIX. COUSINS FROM has plane, car, and hotel. Need 

CONFIDENTIAL 
Need 1 Miami GA

IRELAND COMING IN FOR THE 4 USC TIX FOR SALE. $50/EA Miami nx for GAME on son's 12th Call Kevin X1477 
GAME, #289-7221 KEVIN OR WILL TRADE FOR 1 OR 2 Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only MIAMI TIX. CALL JEFF (714) 646­
need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­8274. 
7604 after?. 

JENNIFER SWIZE**JENNIFER NEED1-2GA-MIAMI X1488 


\ PERSONALS 
SWIZE** JENNIFER SWIZE***JENNIFER SWIZE*** AIR FORCE GA TIX. 

1 Air Force stud tix for sale_. 
Now that I've gotten your REASONABLE. 516-437-9784 

RICH ALUM FROM SEAnLE Call Kate x 40454. Dave, attention, congratulations. 
AFTER6 PM.

NEEDS FOUR-AIR FORCE GOOD LUCK on your exams
2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE.
G.A."S WILL PAY. GUS (206) and interviews this weeklll 
TO HIGHEST BIDDER. 
624-7990, 789-3497, COLLECT Love, Anne Hey Hey Jen Swize: 
271-9552 HAVE AF TIX: 2 GAS , 1 STUD • I NEED AIR FORCE G.A. •IF NECESSARY. 
Fire up for office hours and WILL SELL OR TRADE FOR • FOR BIG $$$ PLEASE CALL • notetaking and all of the thrill and MIAMI OR PENN ST. MAn • CHRISTA x1267 • I really need a ride to the agony of office-holding, I am very

FOR SALE: 1 AF and 1 MIAMI X1213
I NEED 4 A.F. TIX CALL X3758 Philadelphia, New Jersey area proud of you, even if you do make student. Call Krista between after the Miami game. 
me pay you every time I burp. 

1:00 and 3:00, X1292, leave Will help pay and all. love--mo
offer. MIAMI STUD 4 SALE I 
NEED PlnSBURGH GA's I AM SELLING AF STUD Bill-2340 
TIX*CALL 284-5121 Call x2186 CALL MAn #1159 
sdgf Top 15 Christi Corbett's 21st MY FELLOW DOMERS: FOR SALE-TWO AIR FORCE 

Birthday Quotes (Belated) WILL SELL AF MIAMI PENN 15 "I have to walk the dog." 
I have two requests. STUDENT TIX. MAn X-3543 Valentines
1) I need to trade two AIR FORCE Need 2 GAs for Air Force. 
STUD TIX TO BEST OFFER "Take Tasha for a walk?" 
Student Tickets for GA's. Call Maureen 284-5402. 
X4823,4819 14 "We're #1; (pee) offl" 
2) I need to purchase one more FOR SALE: 2 Miami married 
13 "Bailey, you're a balancecat." AIR FORCE GA. stud. tix #489-9660 
12 "Grossi" hi ag

If you can help in any of these two I NeEd MiAmi StUd 
NEED ONE MIAMI TIXII COME 11 "I have a headache like my
endeavors, please call MIKE AT CaLl ToBy 4010
ON, I'LL BE YOUR BEST head against Ryan's couch." 
X1788

FRIEND. CALL 2545. FOR SALE 10 "I love you; I worship the devil." 2 Miami student tix. WHAT'S A GORCH? 
9 "Ein DeutschlandI" (Okay, so Best offer by 1 0/14. 
Siobhan says that.) 

I need MIAMI TICKETS! II GA'S or Leave Message x4988 Video games colorful and new,
8 "...And I don't mean maybe."

Students. If you can help please 2 AIR FORCE STU'S FOR SALE Pool tables a brilliant blue, 
MIAMITIX 7 "I don't have all the answers." call Kevin at 1409 ANDY 232-2586 Smiling workers to help you, 
Have 2 Stud. TOGETHER 6 "Okay, we meet for dinner at the Call X2169 with best offer Pasquerilla Center at 3" No, we don't have Miami tix. 
Have 1 Air Force student 
5 "He's dead and you're still 

PLEASE. I need 1 kind student 2 miami stud tix for sale ticket-reasonable price. Come play with us...
obsessingI" 

ticket for Air ForceII! Please call call kim at 277-7489 
Ask for Shubie *4761 THE GORCH GAMES ROOM Jim at 287·3087. IN LAFORTUNE 
4-SALE: 4 AIR FORCE, 3 MIAMI 4 "Does the blimp ever land?" 
STUD TIX 234-2728 3 "Women have foresight; men have foreskin." 
I Need Two AIR FORCE TIX or I'm 
DESPARATE: I need MIAMI tix! What else are you going to do,
2 "Maybe I do and maybe I don't 

AFGAs in big trouble with the P's. Prefer 
Will pay $$$!1-Kristi x4231. study?
and maybe it's none of your 

Will TRADE (+cash) for Penn or GA's. Call Matt at 277-7371
Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at businessI"
Miami Gas/stud tix or SELL x
283-1818 and leave a message. 1 "LivesL.Get them I"
2909. 

--··-----­


Wednesday, October 10, 1990 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
eighty percent graduate in four years. 
"Everyone recognizes that there are many ways to mea­sure the quality of undergradu­ate education; one of the best however is student satisfac­tion/retention rates," said William Hickey, President of Saint Mary's College. "To note that Saint Mary's College is number one among a group of approximately 135 institutions in this characteristic is a signal honor," added Hickey. 
The strength of a school's fi­nancial resources was deter­mined by the 1989 dollar total of its educational and general expenditures, divided by its to-
The Charles and Maraget Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
invites you to attend its annual Hibernian Lecture 
"PADDY'S PAYBACK; THE AMERICAN IMPACT ON IRELAND" 
Dennis Clark 
Thursday, October 11, 1990 4:15p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 


tal enrollment. Financial Aid played a key role in this cate­gory. Forty-four percent of Saint Mary's students are recipients of financial aid. 
Determinations for selectivity were based on rejection rates, average Scholastic Aptitude and American College Testing Assessment Tests, as well as high school class standings. 
The mean SAT score for Saint Mary's is 1025. Twenty-five per cent of the freshmen grad­uated in the top ten per cent of their high school class and over sixty-two percent in the top quarter of their class. 
Saint Mary's was the only women's college rated in the Midwest's top fifteen. Hickey expressed the College's enthu­siasm for the results of the poll. "As an institution which 
The Observer 
devotes itself to undergradu­ates and the excellence of teaching, we have to be pleased with this recognition," said Hickey. 
Two other Indiana institu­tions joined Saint Mary's among the best in the Midwest regional category; Valparaiso University ranked fifth, while Butler University ranked twelfth in the study. 
In all, this year's U.S. News and World Report study pro­duced fourteen groupings of colleges and universities, cate­gorized by size, selectivity, types of degrees offered, dollar amount of campus research, and region. A total of 1,37 4 four-year schools were included in the study. 
WAKE UP FANNON THE GAME IS OVER 


IHIAJFJFY lffi1EILAlT1ETIJ) ~(Q)fclhl
LOVE, KATSY, WALL FLOWER, CAR QUEEN, BETTY WINER, JAIL BIRDS, SLUGGER, and CALI 
Reserved Seol Ti(kets Go On Sole TOMORROW (October II) 10:00 o.m. ol 
•Joy(e A.C.C. •All Ti(ketMosler Lo(Oiions •Charge By Phone 1·800·359·8383 A IEAVEI PlOD TIOII 


ND 
continued from page 1 
SAT score and a 34 percent ac­ceptance rate. Eighty-one per­cent of incoming freshmen were in the top 10 percent of their high school class, and the University boasts a 91 percent graduation rate. 
The profile also noted that 87 percent of the faculty at Notre Dame hold a doctorate degree, and that the University main­tained a 15:1 student/faculty ratio. The figures, with the ex­ception of the graduation rate, represent the 1989-90 aca­demic year. 
According to Conklin, the magazine's four-year stint at ranking institutions of higher education has been met with complaints from educators 

Joel Smith 

Asst. Professor of Pllilosoplty and Director of Educational Computing, Allegheny College 
"Creating a New Learning Environment' 
•Strategies for assuring that educ~tional needs drive tcchnologrcal decrsrons 
Thursday, October 11 • 2p.m 103 Computing Center/ Math Buzldzng 
Refreshments served afterwards. 
~~~lll:;<(lmll•11 /Ill' tlf/1~1' ••I !!HII'I'r$1/.1( ~ o.JIII/)11/111,~. Umwr~11y H{ N'•lrt UW/Ito, 1111' (11//r.~r,lf Am ~lid/.(!/~!'>.rmiNl•\T,Im· 
page 7 
across the country about the validity of the list. But Conklin sees "much improvement" since the rankings began, noting a more objective presentation of the schools. 
Correction 
In an article about Parents' Weekend in Tuesday's Observer, there were two factual errors. The Jazz Band, not the Glee Club, will be the featured enter­tainment at the' dessert re­ception. The Glee Club will be making a brief appearance. In addition, the marching band concert is at 10:30 a.m. on the steps of the Administration building and step-off is at 11:20 a.m. 

WEAR IT WITH CLASS! 








Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 10, 1990
page 8 


r I 
I 
r 
r-­
1 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Student band policy strikes a bad chord 
Is your favorite student band playing off-campus this weekend? Did you want to take a night off from the usual crowded off-campus social gatherings and just listen to some of the best musical talent at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? Thanks to the Office of Student Affairs, you probably know they're performing. 
Over the summer, Student Affairs banned campus bands from advertising performances at off-campus bars, effectively destroying their only means of gener­ating interest. This action is ridiculous. 
Without the opportunity to advertise on campus, student bands have little or no chance to publicize their performances. Many band members, perform for the fun, and money they receive for the performance is usually applied toward equipment rental. When no one attends a performance, the band loses money. When the band consistently loses money, it becomes hard to continue performing. 
Last year, Student Affairs permitted student bands to advertise but changed its policy because it conflicted with another university policy prohibiting bars from advertising on campus. It was argued that these advertisements promoted not only the band but also the bar in which the performance was being held. 
It seems quite strange, then that the University not only allows but also supports advertisements for student bands at the Alumni-Senior Club, which is, despite all University attempts to disguise it, a bar. 
It is also strange that the University speaks of grand attempts to improve the social opportunities for students and then discourages an excellent opportunity for social interaction like band performances. 
The Office of Student Affairs should reinstate last year's policy. This policy stated that a band may advertise a performance at an off-campus bar as long as the focus of the advertisement is the band's performance and not the establishment itself or the the fact that alcohol will be served. 
Many students already choose to escape campus by patronizing off-campus bars. It is silly for the Admin­istration to think that advertisements for student bands will create a mass exodus of students seeking out alcohol. Student Affairs should reinstate the policy and then concentrate on improving the campus social situation. It's time they faced the music. 
DOONESBURY 

II WaLt~ vou /JGK rt\~. T~[ ~'R?T AM~NDM~T c;uouw oNLY r:wrEcr uNcoNrw~R;r~ Q:?Rf~sloN. ~ 

LETTERS 

Exclusive ticket policies reflect elitism 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in regard to the foolish poli~y governing admit­tance to football games. I un­derstand that a section of the stadium is allotted for the stu­dents, and great pains are made to make this area a ho­mogeneous conglomeration of undergraduate and graduate students. However, should a student be unavailable or un­willing to attend a game, I don't see the problem in giving a ticket to a non-student. 
I gave my roommate my Stanford ticket so that her fam­ily, who had driven fourteen hours to visit her, could ac­company her. They were turned away from the game. Somehow this was not the reception they expected from the "family-ori­ented" campus. I'm not sure why Notre Dame feels that my roommate's family would have tainted the crowd. They cheer­fully took their money for con­cessions while the poor trav­ellers watched the game from 
The best seats in the Huddle. I have an uncomfortable suspi­cion that the policy is based on elitism, so that attendance ex­cludes all but wealthy alumni and bona-fide Irish students. I hope I am mistaken. 
Margaret Stein Off-campus Oct. 6, 1990 



Reflections on art exhibit ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the Inside Column written by Florentine Hoelker (The Observer, Sept. 28). 
I am sure I express the opin­ions of the vast majority of art, art history and design majors on campus who were outraged by the blatantly ignorant views expounded by Mr. Hoelker in his column. His editorial on the value of twentieth century art represents. not only poor judg­ment of an editorial subject, but also the author's immature appreciation of modern art. 
My fellow artists and I found the entire article offensive. Mr. Hoelker exhibits a knowledge of art that appears to have ma­tured not far beyond third grade level. His ignorance is far beyond anything I have ever encountered on this campus, so much so that it makes me won­der how someone with such a narrow view of the finer arts was accepted into such a pres­tigious university. 
I would venture to guess that his idea of art fails to diverge past Michelangelo, Leonardo and the Classical sculpture of ancient Greece. He seems to appreciate nothing that may cause him to observe with more 
than just his optical faculties. 
There is more to art than just orderly colorful forms on can­vas or smoothly sculptured marble figures. Since the dawn of time, art has served far more than the mere aesthetic purpose Hoelker has assigned it. Social, political and religious functions have always been at the vanguard of artistic works, and only in the past few hun­dred years have personal fac­tors evolved into a more 

, prominent role. In his column, Hoelker fails to show any attempt at under­standing the "heaps of scrap metal," as he calls them, that enhance the beauty of our cam­pus. In his failure to open his mind to varying form of artistic expression, Hoelker not only nullifies his entire editorial, but he betrays his utter lack of artistic knowledge whatsoever. The type of ignorance he has displayed is quite intolerable in this day and age. 
All art is not beautiful by mere aesthetic standards. Often, an effort is needed on the part of the observer to ap­preciate a specific work. Even the Mona Lisa is more than just a pretty picture, but this aspect seems as lost to Hoelker as the National Championship is to this year's New York Yankees. I therefore suggest that the next time Hoelker finds himself be­fore a work of art that he make some sort of attempt, however feeble, to understand what he is viewing. He is not required to like what he sees, but he might at least learn to appreciate its content and craftsmanship. 
I cannot be sure that Hoelker will ever appreciate art for what it is, but I am sure of one thing: no one with any respect for the fine arts appreciated his commentary in any way. 
Jeremiah Daly Zahm Hall Oct. 8, 1990 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
~!OVeR H&R&.' {f)Mt Mf£T OUR alENT, Mf<. ANOR&WS! \  OH, MR. ANf)!?tWS, /)}f{/f{ A PtcASUREi I'V& At­WAYS Af)Mff?&f) YOUR... IJM...PFTRIJ/.EUM PROmC!5! INfiJCT, MY BOYFR/&Nf) IS Ova?. FIGHTING FOR  '!UP! HtR&'s AN8WP!C­TUREOFHIM IN H/5/JEStl<r MT/GU£5... I  ()JHOA! HOW 7H&PHONf3.' NOW, THAT's f3XPt0fTABt&! "\  &XPWIT­ABU?  ITS JlJ5T I WANTA A 7ffJI­20-FCXJT NICAL. BtW-UP 7&RM. /:JeHINV \ HtR! I  
7Htlrt f<JGHT NW!  
I  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Irs interesting to hear the way the world argues, agitates and persuades; how it threatens, how it shams and lies; how everybody is right and doesn't want to hear the other side.' 
Ryszard Kapuscinski 

~~---------~----------­


Accent 
Wednesday, October 1 0, 1990 Page9 

'Fantasia' Disney classic returns with golden anniversary magic 
By TED DUNCOMBE radio broadcaster. sion not only restores the sound restoration for Disney. Associated Press Writer The animated vignettes begin Philadelphia Orchestra, but "lt's quite dynamic, even by to­
PHILADELPHIA (AP) with abstract designs swaying recreates Stokowski's vision for day's standard of films." Leopold Stokowski's hands to Bach, and shift to fireflies, a "Fantasound" soundtrack that He used Stokowski's hand­carve the air, yellow and pink mushrooms, flowers, fish and distributed sound throughout written notes, old blueprints lights illuminating his every thistles in Tchaikovsky's "The and 1940s journals to direct the move as he brings Bach's Nutcracker Suite." What people will be music through modern theater "Toccata and Fugue in D sound systems. He estimated
hearing probably
Minor" to visual life. Mickey puts on his master's 3,000 pops and hisses were Soon, he and the orchestra cap and instructs brooms to removed from the soundtrack 
hasn't been heard
disappear, replaced by clouds, carry water, then loses control abstract lines, shifting shapes of them in "The Sorcerer's since 1941 , the actual "We really tried to keep the and beams of light. It is Apprentice." Moments after the music to its original integrity," .. "absolute music," we are told in vignette, Mickey's silhouette 'Fantasound'... he said. "We didn't want to the opening moments of Walt shakes hands with Stokowski at mess with the original sound. If Disney's animated tribute to the podium. the theater in the days before in removing a pop we would classical music, "Fantasia." Dinosaurs act out the origin stereo and digital sound. hurt the sound, we left the pop 
of the Earth to the strains of The music, however, was in." 
"Fantasia" was revolutionary Stravinsky's "The Rite of never uniformly popular with Similar care was taken to ad­when it appeared, and today Spring." critics, many of whom consid­here to the original visual im­remains a landmark blend of Fauns, centaurs and a ered Stokowski's treatment of ages in restoration, said Pete cinema and music, largely be­drunken Bacchus populate Beethoven and Bach as verging Comandini, vice president of cause of the collaboration of Mount Olympus in Beethoven's on sacrilege. Some of Disney's engineering for Y.C.M. Disney and Stokowski, the le­"Pastoral Symphony." A tutu­caricatures have been criticized Laboratories, which did the gendary conductor of The clad hippopotamus is the star of for being overly cute, and the work under the direction of Philadelphia Orchestra. Ponchielli's "Dance of the only black animated characters Disney's Leon Briggs. 
Disney had tinkered with syn­Hours," performing a graceful are servants for Bacchus. Each frame was individually chronization of cartoons and -and funny -pas de deux examined and cleaned. "This music as early as 1929 in "The with a crocodile. The vignette But Stokowski saw the film as dirt, being on there for 50 Skeleton Dance," the first of his includes other dancing hippos, a pioneering development. years, some of it was quite more than 70 "Silly crocodiles, elephants and "We who with Walt Disney stubborn and had to be cleaned 
ostriches. made 'Fantasia' think of it not by razor blade," he said. 'Fantasia' was Evil and the profane meet the as perfect or final, but as the forces of goodness and light in beginning of a new art form," The restorers' mandate was
revolutionary when it 
Mussorgsky's "Night on Bald he wrote in 1940. to make no modifications. "It Mountain," and Schubert's "Ave "Our aim was to make use of was a big jigsaw puzzle putting 
appeared, and today 
Maria" ends the film on a pious all the most recent scientific everything together, makingremains a landmark note, as a processional is developments in recording and sure everything fit to the exact reflected in a pool of water. reproducing music, methods frame as it originally was,"
of cinema and music. To restore the film, Disney that seemed to us helpful in Comandini said. used modern film stock and making music more eloquent, Finally, the color was bal­Symphonies." 
improved lenses to extract and so be of greater service to anced and approved by the stu­He first approached 
more detail and color from the all those who enjoy music." dio. original nitrate negative than "The picture is quite a bit
Stokowski with the idea of recording Dukas' "The 
seen in versions released a half "What people will be hearing sharper," he said. "The colors Sorcerer's Apprentice" and century ago. probably hasn't been heard are quite nice and rich and sat­animating it. The plan grew In a version of "Fantasia" since 1941, the actual urated. There's a lot of detail in 
into a concert of eight classical 
shown in theaters in 1982 and 'Fantasound,' the way it was there that's subtle and probably works narrated by Deems 
1985, the soundtrack was by intended to be heard," said hasn't been seen since it was Taylor, a popular composer and studio musicians. The new ver-Terry Porter, who headed the released." 
Flint promotes history at Saint Mary's 
Greek historian works her way to guest professor 
BY KRISTIN BAZANY and entered Oak Ridge 
ited during the Bronze Age Accent Writer Graduate School of Biomedical from 3500 B.C.-2500 B.C. the Have you ever wondered Sciences after receiving her de­time period which is the focus what a person can do with a gree from Notre Dame. of her doctorate. 


WVFI

degree in history? During her time at Oak Ridge, Flint says, "Archeology is a In case you have, Professor Flint became increasingly pes­wonderful area, because you Kimberly Flint-Hamilton would simistic about her choice in the need to look at the origins in 
be happy to answer that ques­bio-medical field and missed order to find the whole story. 
Top Ten Albums 

tion for you as she makes her her classical studies. After one 
And in this study , you never debut as a visiting professor at year at Oak Ridge she decided find what you don't look for, but Saint Mary's. she wasn't happy and returned there is a world of things to find 
Currently, Flint is the only to classical studies. if you just try." 
1. ALL -Allroy Saves female history professor at In 1984 Flint was accepted at During her time at Saint 
2. Precious Wax Drippings-After History 
Saint Mary's, and her area of Duke University and is Mary's, Flint hopes to aid the 
expertise, Greek Bronze Age presently finishing her doctor­women there in the study of 
3. Bob Mould -Black Sheets of Rain 
and Iron Age studies, is one ate work, hoping to receive her Greek history. along with the that has not been as thoroughly Ph.D. in classical studies in strong concentration of 
4. Jane's Addiction-Ritual de lo Habitual 
explored as other areas of his­December. American history they already torical study at Saint Mary's. During her studies at Duke, have. 
5. Killdozer -Fer Ladies Only 
Although Flint presently Flint journeyed in 1987 to teaches Middle Eastern history, Greece, where she took part in Flint says, "It is hard to get a 
6. The Blisters -Off My Back 
-
she hopes to be teaching Greek Bronze Age and Iron Age exca­good picture of current issues, 
7. Coffin Break-Rupture
history at Saint Mary's next vations. without studying prior concen­
semester. Intending only to study in trations as well." 
8. Fuel -Fuel
Hint is from a family of five Greece for a period of 9 to 12 Flint believes the women of children and grew up on the months, she continued her Saint Mary's are "energetic and 
9. 
Seizure-Seriously Delirious 

10. 
Lemonheads -Half the Time 


south side of Chicago, where studies at the American School very intelligent," and says, she attended Elizabeth Seton of Classical Studies in Athens. "Women can do anything they 
-
Iligh School in South Holland. She focused her attention on a want to do, and can get away Following high school she en­program for U.S. students in from traditional female roles if 
terfld Notre Dame in 1982 with Greek archeology. they are given help and realize plans for a double major in bi­After one year of attendance, the opportunities that are out ology and classical studies. Flint received a fellowship to there." 
At that time, there were no continue her studies for an­Facilitating this process is female historians or classical other year. one of Flint's objectives at Saint 
studies advisors in the depart­During this year, Flint studied Mary's and her expertise and ment, and Flint questioned how ancient agriculture and its ori­ambition should be a great far she could go in the area. gin in Greece. Flint is now asset for the history department 
Because of her doubts, she studying a neolithic cave on as well as the entire Saint felt biology was her best option Naxos Island which was inhab-Mary's community. 
-~---~ --~-----­
~---­
... 

I ~..• 
·• 

The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1990
~ page 10 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 

Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be 


Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES  Guess? WATCH FOUND 10/2 at Stepan Fields. Call Amy x1343 and describe it.  1981 oldsmobile, omega,4 speed,87000miles,good body, running well,$600 deadline: friday 239-5754,271-8858  Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John x1220  I HAVE AIR FORCE GA'S WILL TRADE FOR MIAMI GA'S X4046  I NEED MIAMI TIX CALL JOHN 258-0809  
Need 2 GA's for Penn St  I need GA's for Miami, Penn ST  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  test#4  '76 AUDI FOX; perfect body &  call Ryan x1 048  and Navy. WILL PAY WELL. I also will buy GA's for any other game  
mech. cond.; new paint, tires  too. Call Jason atx3413 or x3419  
brakes, clutch, A/C, 32 MPG.  2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX  
GRADUATE STUDENTS "GRAD CLUB" THIS FRIDAY, OCT. 12 4:30 PM -7:00 PM WILSON COMMONS' LOUNGE ALL GRAD STUDENTS INVITED!!  HELP!!: I lost my DETEX around St. Joseph Lake Thursday morning (1 0/4). PLEASE call if you've found it. x4362 WANTED  $1250/offer. Call234-1196, 8­10:00 P.M. FOR SALE 2 A. F. STUD TIX CALL ANDREA OR MARIA X3829  FOR SALE 272-6459 I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs & PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687 MIAMI TIX FOR SALE  """FOR SALE".... One MIAMI STUD Best offer by 10/1 7 Call Tom x1808 FOR SALE: 2 married stud. tix  Uncle Morris from Iowa is coming for the Miami game and ..surprise he has no ticket. Call Kara if you have a Miami GA for Uncle Morris at x2761.  
G A A D U A T E S T U D E NT S! There will be a meeting for  JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give hundreds of employers (including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank One, the Federal Reserve,  SALE 2 MIAMI GAS. 233-7198 WITH B.O.  DAVE X3024 FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home  AF, Miami, Penn St. Best Offer 287~5012 I NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME  My little sister is coming ALL THE WAY FROM ALASKA to see the Penn St game. Call Lisa or Kara at x2761 if you have any Penn St. student tickets to sell.  
Women United for Justice and Peace this Wednesday at 7 pm at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome.  Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Procter & Gamble, and Random House) access to your resume through Targeted Recruiting Services (TRS). Only $10 before Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment kit plus a free Corporate Profiles  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­1364  games. Call Joe X1688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, PENN STATE TICKETS  GAMES BRIAN 2049 Top Ten Reasons to Sell Mike Your Penn St. Student Ticket 10. It'll probably rain anyway. 9. It might even snow.  YO! HELP Swens & Me HAVE 2 Navy GAs & AF STUs NEED 2Pen St STU & Tennessee= BUY~SELL~TRADE MIKE x1183  
St. Edward's Hall Players Presents ARSENIC AND OLD LACE  Magazine, describing opportunites at the nation's leading employers, call 1-800-TRS-JOBS.  YELLOW 18 CU. FT REFRIGERATOR-NO PROBLEMS $50 CALL 287-2587  CALL 234-7644 I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s  8. We always beat the Big 10. 7. YOU name the price. 6. I'm not as annoying as Edna and Earl.  need miami GAs please call x3735  
A Comedy by Joseph Kesselring January 24-27, 1991 General meeting for all those interested in acting, directing,  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. WANTED: Enthusiastic individual  !I ST. LOUIS !I 1 way SB to StL or rnd trip nonstop tix 4 SALE IV 0ct21 (rtn Oct 28) Dan 2385 or 4655  CALLX3501 4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905 Need Air Force Tix. Students or G.A.s Call Paul at 1755  5. Because my brother is coming, and he's really cool. 4. Because I promise this is the last Top Ten list from me. 3. YOU name the price. 2.1'm easy to reach at x4798. 1. You get to meet me.  Need 4 NO-Air Force Tickets Call Greg or Diana 272~2984 FOR SALE: 1 AF stud Nick x2355  
producing, and tech will be held Sunday, Oct. 14 in Washington Hall at7 pm. If you are unable to attend, please  or student organization to promote Spring Break destination for 1991. Earn commissions, free trips and valuable work experience. Apply nowlll Call  I have 1 AF stu tix to trade or sell for 1 Penn stu tix Brian x1562  I COULD REALLY USE A PENN ST. TICKET-STUD or GA-call ALYSSA x3822  Selling!!! 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD EJ x1053  I Need 2 Penn St. GAs or studs $$$ Nick x2355$$$  
call Dennis (1513) or John (1648)  T.J. at Student Travel Service 1­ 
800-265-1799.  TICKETS  AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR  Need 4 GA's for AIR FORCE. Call Julia X3505  TWO AIR FORCE STUDENT TIX  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING  SALE X1511  FOR SALE!!!  
237~1949  Need ride to Boston for fall break.  CALL MIKE OR DAVE AT 3024  
JUST SAY NO!  Prefer to leave after Miami game. Will help pay for gas & tolls & can drive stick. Laura X3776  Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games.  NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND PSU STUD. CALL 1511  FOR SALE: Miami & AF STUD pair, AF GA. Best Offer by Fri.x3253.  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. &  Call tom x1597.  NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S.  SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET  
Howard. 233-2342  Needed: Tickets to NO-Pitt game. Call Maria 3829  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  MONEY NOT A CONSIDERATION.  I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS!  --<:all LuAnn X4 766  
LOST/FOUND FOUND: SILVER RING IN  Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340.  GAMES.272-6306 Need Miami GAs & Studs Mike 273-1537  RON X1913 SELLING STUD TIX to all home games  CALL TOM @ X 2259. MIAMI-For Sale-3 Miami Stu. tix 40 yd. line. Call and leave  For Sale ~ MIAMI TICKET Leave Name, Number, Offer. 284-4419  
LIBRARY. CALL WITH DESCRIPTION 234-5140.  EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS,  Need Miami stud tix for brothers, Dan x1795  up to 4 adj. MIAMI (day) 239-8232 (night) 273-1905 273~1723  offer. 277~9080  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  
I lost a navy blue windbreaker  JAMACIA AS PART-TIME  I KNOW I AM NOT THE ONLY  CALL 273~ 1364  
at Club 23 last Wednesday. If you found it, please call me at 289-3467. Ask for John.  CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786.  Need: TICKETS FOR ALL HOME  MI-AM~I in need of Miami tix. stud. & GA's x4274  ONE THAT NEEDS MIAMI GA's BUT I AM THE ONE WITH BIG BUCKS FOR THESE. call Krissy at 284~4350. DANKE!!  I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's Karen x4806  
I NEED 2-4 AIR FORCE STU/GA  GAMES!  
RED'''RED'''RED'''RED"' jacket lost at stanford barn dance ... also RED ground grafic piece from  TIX!I CALL KEARY #4289 FOR RENT  CALL JOE X1688 Monday~Thursday 3:30-6:30  PRETTY please ... Sell me your GA's to any home games. I need 4-8. $$ call Paula @ 4096  $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609.  
RED car in D-2 lot... PRETTY  
PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP,  NEED MIAMI GA'S  2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE  
RETURN THEM !II X-4096 ask for PAULA.  1991-1992 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm house.  I NEED TIX TO ANY GAME !II CALL SHARON 284-5089  DIANE 273-9469  CALL CARRIE AT 4049  NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIIIII  
Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­ JUST WON THE LOTIERY-­ 
5653  For Sale: 1 MIAMI St. Tix.  I HAVE 2 SETS OF AIR FORCE  
LOST:  I Need GA's for MIAMI, and  30-35 Yd. Line. Call JJ x1619  G.A.'S AT THE 50 YD. LINE.  I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS !I!  
A 14KT GOLD BRACELET.  PENN STATE. Also need stud. for  GREAT SEATS! CALL FRANK AT  
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991­ PSU & Miami. PLEASE call Beth  X3646. LEAVE NAME AND  PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE  
CALL ANDREA X3829  92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL  at 288-0597  OFFER IF NOT HOME  
CHUCK GLORE 232-1776.  CALL CATHY AT 273-9624  
HAVE A. F. stud. tix.Need Miami  
LOST: A "Berenger" watch with a black band, a black face, and gold Roman numerals. I lost it somewhere between Farley and  Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3 1/2 baths, 2 family rooms with  NO Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971, II am-8pm, M-F.  stud. Will trade +cash.Respond by 11pm Weds.Callx2336 or x3709.  FOR SALE 2 AIR FORCE STUDS & 1 MIAMI STUD CALL JOAN #4003  I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S X1639  
the Center for Social Concerns on Monday morning. If found, PLEASE call Michelle x3879. The  plenty of room. Professors or mature students welcome. 272­8939.  TOP $ for Your Ga tix to all home  THIS IS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY ­HELP THE NEEDY ­ NEEDII2 Air Force GA's  need one or two PENN STATE GAs. Call monica at 283~4021.  
watch was a gift and is very, very  games call277-9357  NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud  
important to me.  Patty  HAVE MERCY!!!  Chris 233-5882  
an attractive studio in lovely old  MIKI 284-4386  Need two tickets to NO vs. USC  
- Lost: Pink, rimless eyeglasses in blue Oakley soft case. If found, contact Jim at x-1716.  mansion near NO ,255 plus deposit ;please call 2888595 d roommate wanted to share two bedroom house. two minutes  I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's! PLEASEI277~4838  NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET Call x2453  game, student or GA's. Call Betsy at x3899. MIAMI TIX; need 1 student; call Bill'x3300  
- LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. If found, please call Rene 2n­9468. Reward offered. LOST: A GOLD AND SILVER SEIKO WATCH between Niewland and Hesburgh Lib. 10/8/90 from 2:00-3:00 p.m. REWARD, please call '2969  from campus. 2730087 STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 8PM TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALLJANE 271-1920  1 068. THANKS HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589 WANTED: ONE OR TWO NO­MIAMI TICKETS. CALL MRS. MCINTYRE COLLECT (802) 775­4553.  NEED: 4 AF GA's. Call Tracy 273-9033. WILL TRADE 4 AIR FORCE G.A.'S FOR 2 MIAMI G.A.'S CALL CHRIS #277~9363 Aim High!! -Sell me your Air Force tickets for top dollar. -I need 4 GAs and 1 Student  AIR FORCE I STUD FOR SALE I CALL TIM x3332 I I NEEDED: 3 Air Force stud. tix  Wealthy Alumni Desparately Need Miami Tix Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$ "I am willing to SELLIII" 2 Miami GA's. Call Mary at (603)889-0368 & make offer.  
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please contact Cara at x3847.  FOR SALE  NO GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami  "Call Jeff at 283-1164  Call4431 For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best offer. 284-5152 or 284-5115  NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX CALLX3224  
FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Portable TVIII Excellent condition.  Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625.  2 Miami Stud Tix  
Lost: 2 keys on a plain ring btwn oshag-Galvin-NDH please call x2661 if found  Call x1208 and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer before midnight, Oct. 12th.  For Sale Best Offer John x1808  I NEED 2 A. F. TIX-STUD OR G.A. CALL STACY 271-1953.  see CLASS I page 6  

The Observer page 11 
Sorin, Alumni and Grace dominate men's football 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The third week of men's in­tflrhall football action is com­plete and front runners have bngun to emerge for the differ­ent league titles. Sorin, Alumni and Grace are close to clinch­ing their respective league championships. 
ROCKNE LEAGUE 
In a battle of undefeateds, Sorin came back from a 7-2 halftime deficit to beat Fisher 14-7. Sorin scored first on a safety when the Green Wave had the snap go over punter Rick Ebert's head and through the end zone. 
Fisher's points came just be­fore halftime, when the Otters fumbled an option pitch at their 10. Linebacker Gene Hichards recovered for Fisher and on the next play Mick Grlllln ran for the touchdown. Don McGhan added the PAT. 
"This game was a bummer from our standpoint," said Fisher coach Ebert. "Our of­fense stunk it up; we didn't !lven completfl a pass. We were fortunate to score when we did." 
Fisher had the ball to start thll second half, but Otter de­fensive end Mike Murphy's fumble recovery at midfield gave Sorin its chance. The Ot­ters scored the go-ahead touchdown on Vic Lombardi's 13-yard run. Sorin then sealed the win on its next possession with a 65-yard touchdown pass from Kevin Kramer to Lom­bardi. 
"The one thing I can say is that I am happy to come away with a win in a situation where we did not execute well at all," stated Sorin coach Kramer. "That, however, says some­thing about our team, when we can win without playing our best." 
Carroll kept its playoff hopes alive by defeating Pangborn 8­
0. Tom Sullivan broke through the Violence line and blocked a Pangborn punt through the end zone to give the Vermin a 2-0 halftime lead. 
In the fourth period, the Vermin sacked Pangborn's quarterback on fourth down at the Violence five. On the subse­quent play, Sullivan ran for the touchdown to provide the final margin. 
Vermin coach Mike Baumer was especially pleased with the play of his defense, which only gave up two first downs to Pangborn. He said he looks forward to the upcoming off week in order to prepare for Carroll's upcoming game ver­sus Sorin. 
LEAHY LEAGUE 
Alumni clinched an opportu­
nity to defend its interhall championship by defeating Zahm 20-8. The Dogs stopped Zahm on its opening drive and then Chris Jeford blocked Greg Bachman's punt. Paul Nick­odemus recovered for Alumni at the Zahm 20. Four plays later, Dave Ludwig scored from five yards out. 
In the middle of the second quarter, Ludwig capped a 50­yard Dog drive with a 12-yard run, and in the third period, Alumni iced the victory on a Ludwig 15-yard rush. 
"Our team played well, we played a good Zahm team and we hope to sustain our level of play through Keenan in two weeks," said Dog coach Paul Szyperski. If Alumni defeats or ties the Knights, it will win the Leahy League. 
Zahm's points came late in the fourth on a five-yard pass from Matt Lahey to Paul Shuga. Matt Seng added the PAT run. 
"Just like last game, we had a punt blocked and all of a sud­den, early in the game, we're down by a score," said Zahm coach Dan Stopar. "Coming from behind in this league is very difficult." 
Keenan upped its record to 1­
0-1 in its new division with its 
6-0 victory over Cavanaugh. 
The Knights stopped Ca­
vanaugh on fourth and one at 
the Knight 40 in the fourth 
quarter. After driving to the 
Cavanaugh 40, Mike Maier 
found wide receiver Pete Knight 
for the winning score. 
PARSEGHIAN LEAGUE 
Off-Campus seriously dam­aged Morrissey's chances of re­turning to the playoffs by tip­ping the Manor 7-6. The Crime took the opening drive 65 yards to grab the early 7-0 lead. Brian Doherty took Bob Al­lard's screen pass 30 yards for the score. Bob Topel added the PAT. 
Morrissey came back just be­fore halftime on Jamie McMillin's five-yard pass to Scott Taylor. The PAT failed due to a bad snap, the differ­ence in the game. 
"We played quite well," said Manor coach David Shaw. "In fact, we controlled the ball most of the second half [b]ut they came up with ·t~~ key interceptions and basically stopped our drives from get­ting close to field goal range." 
For Crime coach Tom Helms, the key to the game was Off­Campus' ability to adjust to Morrissey's potent passing game. 
"They threw pretty well against us in the first half, but we made the necessary adjust­ments ... and were able ... to shut their passing game down afterwards," said Helms. 
Grace virtually locked up a playoff spot with its 13-0 vic­tory over Dillon. After a score­less first half, Grace broke onto the scoreboard midway into the third period on Jim Kossler's 15-yard pass to Jeff Burns and Bob Sweeney's PAT. 
In the fourth quarter, Grace 
coach Chris Sullivan tried a lit­tle trickery: he called for the halfback pass and Joe Minadeo executed it to perfection, find­ing Burns for a 35-yard com­pletion. That play set up Grace's second touchdown as Kossler scrambled and threw to tight end Mike Kamradt. The ball bounced off Kamradt's hands right to Minadeo, who walked into the end zone. 
"The key to this game was making the correct adjust­ments on defense to their [the Big Red's] run-and-shoot, and on offense . . . to find what would work in order to have our offense click," said Sulli­van. "Obviously, the best way to get rid of any doubts about our playoff situation is to beat Flanner. We must beat Flan­ner, or our playoff hopes may be in jeopardy." 

Items 
continued from page 16 
containing a large photo of Lou lloltz, and Irish athletic logos and campus scenes surround it. 
People on campus already have started wearing the shirts, and the ad in The Observer stating, "Buy It For 'The Cause," has been in the paper for more than a week. Sales al­ready have been immensely suc­cessful. 
"Our initial order was 11,000, but we've ordered 6,000 more," said Director of Student Activi­ties Joe Cassidy. "And it looks like we'll have to up that. Every goal (for shirt sales) I've had is being broken." 
The impressive sales can be attributed to the cooperative marketing by the Athletic De­partment, the bookstore and the Alumni Association. 
Prospective Zheng-de sup­porters can purchase the shirt at LaFortune Student Center, the ice rink in the ACC, the golf and tennis shops and the book­store. The shirt comes in short sleeves for $10 and long sleeves for $12. 
Those not on campus can order the shirt by calling 1­800-345-5027. There is a $5 per-order charge when ordered by phone. 
"What we'd like to do is have each class wear it a different day on the week before the Mi­ami game," said Cassidy. 

Scoreboard 
NHL STANDINGS INTERHALL 
w 
Tuesdav s Games Men's 
P•trlck Dlvlelon 
Rockne Le.1gue Pa-shian League Leahy League 
New Jersey 5, Minnesota 2
w L T Pis (E GA Sorin 2-0 Grace 3-0 y-Alumni 3-0
St. Louis 4. Pittsburgh 3
New Jersey 2 1 5 15 13 Fisher 2-1 Off-Campus 2-1 Keenan 1-0-1
Los Angeles at Vancouver, (n)
Pittsburgh 2 0 4 17 12 Carroll 1·1-1 Hanner 1-1 Cavanaugh 1-2 Wednesday's Games 
St. Edward's 0-1-1 Dillon 0-2 Stanford 0-1-1 Calgary at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Pangborn 0-2 Morrissey 0-2 Zahm 0-2
Washington 1 0 2 10 11 
NY Islanders 2 0 2 7 10 
Buffalo at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 7 Sunday, Oct. 7 y-clinched playoff spot 
NY Rangers 2 0 2 13 12 
Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m. Sorin 14 Fisher 7 Grace 13 Dillon 0 Sunday, Oct. 7 
Philadelphia 2 0 2 9 9 
Carroll 8 Pangborn 0 Off.Campus 7 Morrissey 6 Keenan 6 Cavanaugh 0 Ad•m• Dlvlelon Sunday, Oct. 14 Sunday, Oct. 14 Alumni 20 Zahm 8
Quebec at Toronto, 7:35 p.m. 
Boston at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m.
Boston 3 0 0 6 16 4 St. Edward's v. Fisher Flanner v. Grace Sunday, Oct. 14 Montreal 2 0 5 14 11 RESULTS Pangborn v. Sorin Morrissey v. Dillon Stanford v. Cavanaugh Hartford 1 1 3 11 12 
Zahm v. Keenan 

Buffalo 0 1 8 9 Men'• Soccer Quebec 0 2 6 15 Women's Gold
Butler 2 Notre Dema 0 OT 
Breen-Phillips 3-0 Norrie Dlvlelon SPORTS CALENDAR Farley 3-1 Howard 3-1 Lewis 3-1 Off-campus 2-1 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Blue 
w L T Pis (E GA Wednesday, October 10 
P.E. 2-2 Lyons 2-2 
Chicago 2 1 0 4 11 9 
P.W. 2-2 Badin J-3 St. Louis 2 1 0 4 9 10 WOMEN'S SOCCER vs. Wlsc.-MIIwaukee,6:00 
p.m. Knott 1-3 Walsh 0-4 Minnesota 1 3 0 2 11 16 Siegfried 1-3 Sunday, Oct. 7 Detroit 0 2 1 1 9 16 Sunday, Oct. 7 Breen-Phillips 22 Badin 8
Thu...-y, October 11 Toronto 0 3 0 0 4 14 BASEBALL vs. Air Force, 7:30 p.m.at Coveleski Farley 28 Knott 0 Lyons 12 Walsh 6 OT 
Stadium P.E. 13 P.W. 12 Howard 14 Off-campus 0
Smythe Dlvlelon 
Lewis 6 Siegfried 0 Wednesday, Oct. 10 
Calgary 3 0 0 6 11 6 Friday, October 12 
Sunday, Oct. 14 Breen-Phillips v. Off.Campus
Edmonton 0 3 6 5 
P.E. v. Lewis Sunday, Oct. 14
BASEBALL vs. Air Force, 8:30 at Coveleski Field
Winnipeg 1 3 13 8 
Walsh v. Howard

Women's Cross-Country at Indiana P.W. v. Knott 
Los Angeles 0 2 7 7 
lntercollegiates, 4:00 p.m. Farley v. Siegfried Lyons v. Breen-Phillips Badin v. Off.Campus 
End of regular season 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
... SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
::·:::::... 
-
in 




<LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 10, 1990 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Vancouver 0 2 8 6 
University of Notre Dame Foreign Studies Programs in 
Jerusale1n 
and 


Mexico City 
Spring Semester 1991 Applications Due October 15, 1990 
For more information please contact Dr. Claudia Kselman Assistant Director, Foreign s: udy Programs 
420 Administration Building 
239-5882 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1990 

Holtz 
continued from page 16 
where we haven't made the progress and consequently has hampered our whole football team right now." 
0 0 0 
Holtz praised the overall play of his team in the loss to Stan­ford. He said he liked the way the offense played, and praised the front seven on defense. The problems, said Holtz, were the secondary, the three fumbles on punts and a failure to stop several third down conversions by the Cardinal. 
"It was a situation that you don't normally face in coach­ing," said Holtz. "Normally 

Lambert 
continued from page 16 
We don't know what went on behind the scenes. We can't make a judgement on whether Lambert's release was appro­priate. because the appropriate parties will not comment. 
Rosenthal, reached last night, was vague in his explanation. 
"(Lambert) indicated that he had some philosophical differ­ences with the team," Rosenthal said. "He told us he would not coach anymore under those cir­cumstances." 
Several aspects of this situa­tion are disturbing. 1 For starters, a statement re­garding Lambert's situation should have been made Friday. The athletic department is re­sponsible to faithful Irish fans who show up at the games and see Lambert absent from the bench. The fans at least have a right to know who coaches the team they support, and this past weekend, they didn't have






1....~:::::::::~1 
• MICHAEL PATRICK : 
+ DUDDY • 
i 
+ WITH ALL OF THE + LOVE IN MY HEART, :: 
SHANNAB 
P.S. THANK YOU FOR 
+ YOURLOVE,SUPPOR~ + 
+ AND FRIENDSHIP +
-.................
~ 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE
C/) u..J PRESENTS 
~ ~ 
2 
<( 
0 
u..J 

~TROJAN 
~ 
~ 
f-­
C/) 0 



WOMEN 
0 z 

BY EURIPIDES 
0 ~ 

-
WASHINGTON HALL lABORATORY THEATRE 
~ 
THURS.. OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY, OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN.. OCT. 7 3:10PM C/) WED., OCT. 10 8:10PM 
THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM ~ FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM 0'-SAT., OCT. 13 8:10PM 
l SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM 
0 

TICKETS: $5, $4 STU/SEN CIT, WED THU & SUN
0'­

0'-
AVAILABLE AT THE D.OOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARDNISA 
~ 

ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
when you lose you put on the film and find several people who played very poorly or played lackadaisically, or made bad decisions. But that wasn't the case. For the most part, our football team really, really competed well." 
After such a devastating upset, Holtz did not say whether he would make any specific changes on defense. He did hint of a change, however, when he said that cornerback Reggie Brooks had a "very, very bad shoulder." 
"There are a lot of different things that we can do to im­prove our defensive sec­ondary," said Holtz. "I think a lot of it is fundamentals, a lot of it is confidence. When you 
a clue. 
Also. it would be interesting to find out why Lambert re­signed. Rosenthal said that the resignation was not coerced in any way. He said that he never issued any ultimatum to Lam­bert. He says the press release says it all. 
I disagree with that final statement. The press release sugarcoats the issue. It tells us that Lambert did a great job building up the volleyball pro­gram, and that he suddenly re­signed, without giving us a rea­son. 
The players who set the ball rolling in this situation are si­lent, too. Do they have some­thing to hide? 
We don't know exactly what made Lambert resign, and we 
DIRECTOR 
REGINALD BAIN SET & LIGHTS 
KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY Bosco 
get beat on third down four straight times (during the Stanford game), you have to worry about your people get­ting upset. 
"There isn't any place where you have to be a umt any more than you do with your defensive secondary. They compliment one another, and we will be a good secondary before this year is over. There is no doubt about it. But that's not soon enough. It should have hap­pened before now, and it will happen." 
H~ltz said that Raghib Ismail, who missed all but one play of Saturday's game because of a bruised thigh, will start at flanker this Saturday against Air Force. 
are not sure why the athletic department would let him go so easily. We do know that the Irish looked pretty pathetic in the Golden Dome Classic this weekend without Lambert on the sidelines. There is a lot of talent on that volleyball team; too much to condone such a poor performance this past weekend. 
1. PACIFIC HEIGHTS 4:45-7:15-9:45 
2.POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE 
4:30-7:0D-9:15 
3. DESPERATE HOURS 
5:00-7:15-9:30 


THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-3a.m. 

SEMINAR on NON-VIOLENCE JANUARY 8-13 LAS VEGAS, NEVADA 
(ONE CREDIT THEOLOGY COURSE) 
Information Night Thursday October 11 
7: 00 pm at Center for Social 
Concerns For more information :call 239-5319 
5POHTS BRIEFS 
NVA -Campus Badminton. Double elimination singles and doubles tournament. Deadline for registration is today. 
NVA CO-Ree Basketball. Entry deadline is today. Five team leagues consisting of five women and five men on a team. A fee of $20 is due with roster. Call NVA for complete rules. 
NVA lnterhall Volleyball. Men's and women's divisions. Rosters of at least seven members from same hall will be in five team round robin leagues. Entry deadline is today. 
Boxers: Veteran and novice, any and all, there is a mandatory meeting on Thursday, Oct. 11th at 9 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. All Notre Dame boxers must attend. Any questions, call Norm at 233-8133. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on Monday, Oct. 15th at 7 p.m. They were not held Monday the 8th as reported in the Observer. 
®®JPIRI®IDCIDIEIE~~ 
THIS IS THE OPPORUNITY YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR! 
ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEARCHING FOR A CHALLENGING OPPORUNITY AND WHO WOULD LIKE TO GET INVOLVED IN THE EXCITEMENT OF JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON FOR JPW-APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES. 
DEADLINE:OCTOBER 12, 1990 
Daily Specials 


Wednesday, October 10, 1990 The Observer page 13 

Oakland closes in on AL title 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -Oakland will try Wednesday long time," Oakland manager Same Boston start, same Oak­to advance to the World Series Tony La Hussa said. "In most land finish. for the third straight season of our games, our starting 
If this all looks familiar, it is. when it sends ace Dave Stewart pitching has been great and The A's again won with ease, 4-against Hoger Clemens, weak our relievers have been excel­1 Tuesday, and now are on the and pitching on three days' rest lent. I think today was very typ­vergtl of another sweep. in a rematch of Game 1 ical." 
For the third straight game, starters. Mike Moore, who struggled the Hed Sox took an early lead "I don't believe they can win most of the season, shut down and for the third straight four games in a row, so I just Boston on one run on four hits game, it wasn't enough. Only don't see any point in (Clemens) for six innings. Then it was one difference this time -pitching," Stewart said. "His time for Oakland's bullpen, Boston's bullpnn didn't blow it shoulder is tired and I believe which has not allowed a run in because it didn't get a chance that probably he is tired. 5 2-3 innings this series; 
to pitch. "I would think that the best Boston relievers have given up Willie Handolph, filling in for thing for Roger Clemens would 12 runs on 16 hits in 6 1-3 in­injured Walt Weiss, had a pair be to rest for the rest of the nings. 
of HBI singles and Dave Hen­year and get himself healthy Dennis Eckersley pitched the derson made the most of his and strong for next year. Or ninth for his second save of the first start with a sacrifice fly see if they should happen to series and his nine career play­
as the Athletics won their ninth win tomorrow's game and off saves and 10 in the postsea­straight postseason game. pitch on his regular day." son are both records. 
Oakland became the 18th Stewart has won his last "They're the best team in the team to take a 3-0 lead and the seven starts against Clemens world," Boston manager Joe previous 17 all won,· 13 by and if it happens again, Oak­Morgan said. ''I've been saying 
sweeps. That includes the Ath­land will be the first team to that for a few years." letics, who routed the Hed Sox play in three consecutive World in the 1988 playoffs and won Series since the New York The Red Sox, meanwhile, last year's World Series over Yankees from 1976-78. have lost nine straight in the 
Reds beat Pirates;lead NL series 3-1 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Eric Davis had trouble picking his finest moment Tuesday night after throwing the Pittsburgh Pirates into their darkest hour of the National League playoffs. 
Davis threw out a belly­flopping Bobby Bonilla at third base as he desperately tried to stretch an eight-in­ning double in a one-run game. The fourth playoff putout by a Cincinnati out­fielder ensured a 5-3 victory that put the Reds just one victory away from a World Series. 
It was perhaps the most significant play of Davis' ca­reer, even if he was reluctant to admit it. 
''I've won three Gold Gloves. I've taken homers away by going over the fence. I've dove and made catches," Davis said. "It's hard to pick out one most significant play." 
No one else had any illu­sions. 
"That was the defensive play of the year." Bonilla said. 
"When Eric threw Bonilla out, the whole team jumped out of the dugout. We felt the game was over," Reds starter Jose Rijo said. "It's an unbelievable feeling. He made a great play." 
The Reds' outfield has done that with regularity throughout the four playoff games. Right fielder Paul O'Neill threw out runners at second and third base in the first two games, and Davis and Billy Hatcher wiped out two more Tuesday. 


Socillf ~--., Hog' Roast ( . 4]··~~ Oct. 13 ? ~. '-·~~f('fo at.tar Air farce Game 
1 .1~;-~~.~ ,. T1e'kats 6111 uvance
\(~if 1 ('
.j ~ l,..j U l a.t the tate Pa.rents aud Alumni Wllecm1 Ticket= st ~Ceud:les= De=k 
~ 
-
-
-
~ 
-

NOTRE DAME
I­

BOXING
~ 
I 
I ATTENTION BOXERS I ~ 
I : Mandatory Meeting I• 
-

M,."~~~)QIC;(:-.,:::;ac;.;:::4e{:>.31:.!~:~.~~:...,·~-.::·>.X;t""•:'~~:':•:~CS:~::~~~~~:~~,~"~~~ 
~  
~ I ~ ~  All novice . Medical  those who want to box at Notre Dame, M M and veteran& must attend this meeting J and insurance forms will be distributed I  
- 1n  preparation  for  the  upcoming  mandatory  physicall  
M ­I  Thursday, October 11 127 Nieuwland Science Hall  ~ ~1  
I  9:00pm  ~  

'-~----~----~ 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 10. 1990 
Women's soccer faces UW-
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (9-3-1) faces off against Wisconsin-Milwaukee this evening at 6 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium in a game that may prove pivotal to the Irish drive for recognition as a re­gional power. 
In the most recent central re­gion poll, the Irish were ranked ninth, while Wisconsin-Milwau­kee slipped out of the Top Ten after suffering a 10-0 rout at the hands of Wisconsin-Madi­son. 
After suffering their first home loss of the season -a 2-0 decision against eighth-ranked Creighton -the Irish will be looking to get their game back on track before upcoming matchups with Northwestern and Saint Mary's College. 
"These are some important games coming up for us," re­marked Notre Dame head 

coach Chris Petrucelli. "This is posed to be, the biggest thing a big game for us. We have a that we can do is to try and big rivalry with Saint Mary's, prevent her from getting the and in between that game and ball by shutting out the other the MCC Tournament we have a players around her, because we trip to Florida International. can't match blinding speed. De­There is still a possibility for us fensively, keeping the ball away to make this an outstanding from her will be our concern." season." While the Irish shutout at the 
Last year, the Irish fell 2-1 to hands of Creighton was only Wisconsin-Milwaukee on the the second such offensive pro­road in the second game of the duction lag of the season, season. Bernie Holland, a se­Notre Dame will not allow such nior co-captain who has been a drought to continue. sidelined with injuries for the "We need to get our attack middle going of this season, sparked back up," exclaimed 
~ scored the lone goal for Notre Petrucelli. "After being shutout Dame on an assist from now­by Creighton, it's important for sophomore Denise Chabot. On us to create some chances and the afternoon, the Irish were score some goals." outshot 10-6. Yet haven't the Irish played 
"Wisconsin-Milwaukee is a all their home games this sea­very fast team," stated Petru­son at Alumni Field, which is a celli. "One of their forwards larger field? Shouldn't the supposedly has blinding speed, move to a smaller field while they have a midfielder (Krause) hamper the run-and­who runs the show. gun Notre Dame attack? 
"I think that when we are "Playing on a small field may dealing with a forward as dan­be to our advantage," theorized gerous as their player is sup-Petrucelli. "Wisconsin-Milwau­
Women's golf places six at Invite 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The women's golf team fin­ished off their fall season at the Northern Illinois Invitational over the weekend with a two round total of 709, placing the Irish sixth out of a field of ten which included strong teams from Northern Illinois, Illinois State and Kansas State. 
The weather was the biggest factor in the tournament. Tem­peratures hovered around 40 degrees and the wind chill was near freezing. In addition, the 
SMC 
continued from page 16 
only one shot on goal the entire game. 
"Overall the team played ex­tremely well," said co-captain Troester. "We were able to utilize our basic skills and capi­talize on offense." 
Gilliland opened the scoring drive in the second half after she shot a corner kick into the upper left corner of the net. 
Junior fullback Annie Hartzel added another goal as she went down the middle and shot the ball into the upper far corner of the net. 
Soon after, junior Frannie Cappelleri tapped a goal into the net after a corner kick from freshman Katie Daniel. 
"The team showed lots of composure," said Van Meter. "We were able to concentrate on the things that we have been working on all season." 
The Belles travel to Calvin College this Saturday and then the team will return home to challenge Notre Dame in a long awaited match to be held on Monday, Oct. 16 at Saint Mary's Field. 
Elizabeth Cris~Ja 
is 
The Best Sister 

Happy Birthday 
Love, John 

start of the tournament was hole tally of 244. Despite a si­rain delayed for several hours nus infection, senior Pandora until tournament officials de­Fecko was the second highest cided to start play regardless Irish finisher with a tie for 27th of weather. place. Freshman Chrissy Klein 
Coach Hanlon felt the kept pace with senior Roberta weather caused some problems Bryer as the two tied for 32nd for his young team. place. Sophomore Kathy Phares 
"The weather was really and freshman Alicia Murray mentally difficult to adjust to. completed the Notre Dame It was the worst that we have squad with solid performances. ever had to play in and we Hanlon was positive about didn't score well, but that is no the weekend. excuse because everyone played under the same conditions," "It was an important learning said Hanlon. experience in that we know we 
Junior Allison Wojnas posted need to be prepared to play in the top Irish score with a 96-that weather," said Hanlon. 
WORLD AWARENESS SERIES 
PLAYING CATCH-UP WITH EUROPE 
WE'DNESDAYFOCTOB"ER"''''I'Otlf~o>;:::::~~~===~==~:::=::::::::::::::::::::i:::::::::;:::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::~:i::: 
The Possibilltles for Peace in Northern Ireland 
(Panel Discussion) Most Rev. Edward Daly, Roman Catholic Bishop of Derry, Nothern Ireland Rt. Rev. Dr. James Mehaffey, An~can Bishop of Derry and Raphore, Nothern Ireiand Rev. Margret L. Johnson, Northern Ireland Working Group 
4:00pm 121 Law School 
Cosp011110red with the lnstkate for IDteraatioaal Peace Studies lllld the 
Center for Civillllld Human Rights 
•IRISH FEAST• 
tmd Reception for grasts from Northern Ire!tmd 
Dinner/Buffet and Reception Singer and Dancers: John Kennedy and the Sheam.usin 

2M> STIJD£0-rrGO\IRNN[Vf
GOV!RKMIKI 
kee may not be able to run all over us and utilize their speed on a smaller field. Plus, we've had a couple of days to practice and train on the smaller field." 
All things considered, the Irish are not out of the woods yet, largely because of injuries to several players. Shannon Jenkins, who dislocated her kneecap in practice last Wednesday, might return for Saturday's meeting with Northwestern. 
Molly Lennon, who would have taken Jenkins spot, injured her left foot last Thursday and is listed as possible for the Northwestern match. 
"With Molly in the lineup, maybe we would have done a couple of things differently," noted Petrucelli. "We miss Shannon's intensity and her physical play. Molly Lennon can probably do the same job, but she is hurt too. I doubt that ei­ther will play tomorrow. It'd be optimistic to say that either of them will play on Saturday. That's really in doubt at this point." 

As if the loss of Jenkins and Lennon did not sap Notre Dame's strength enough, the Irish are also temporarily without the services of fresh­man defender Brenda Gorski of 
South  Bend,  who  adds  both  
height and  power  to  the de­ 
fense.  

Injuries aside, an impressive outing against Wisconsin-Mil­waukee is what Notre Dame needs to keep scaling the cliffs of regional prominence. 
•............................................., 
PARENT'S 





p.-·~BALL
WEEKEND 
• 
UNIVIIIITY NOTI!E D"'WE
o• 
FIND OUT WHAT'S HAPPENING!!! 
PICK UP A PARENT'S WEEKEND SCHEDULE OF EVENTS AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NOTRE DAME 
T"'
•
• VS MIAMI ~ 
•
•
• OCTOBER 20, 1990 ~ 
•
•
• SHIRTS ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH:
•
• THE BOOKSTORE 
•
• GOLF PRO SHOP
•
• TENNIS PRO SHOP 
•
• JACC HOCKEY PRO SHOP 
•
• LaFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK
•
................................................. 


TIIURSDA"!¥~4tllir:<t2:;@.m?.:?.:~.r:~~~~~::=:=:~=r~==@~=:=:=:==:= 
Paddy's Payback: 'Ibe American Impact on Ireland 
(Lecture) Dennis Clark 
4:15pmHesburgh I.Jbrary Lounge 
OJsponacredby the Aoc:leot Ordel" aflllbemlaos and The Cbarlr.s and Margaret HaD Cuabwa eeowa the study err American Cll1:bollclllm. 


II •• ALUMNI :·-::W::·-=·==':•:-:::1
_.SENIOR 



~CLUBFRI 
SAT" 
NO LUNCH 
WE'RE
WED 
HURS 
NO GRAD 
OPEN 
NITE
Cross 
1/2 HOUR
CUP
the 
AFTER THE
NITE
Border! 
OPEN FROM 
GAME ENDS 
9-2 

., 
l'l
·t< 

Wednesday, October 10, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday, October 10, 1990 ACROSS 29 Hors d'oeuvres 57 Operatic 32 Portent offering by 
1 Gelid 

4:30 p.m. Reading by Carole Glickfeld, author of Wagner
33 Squelched

5 Broom made of
"Useful Gifts". Selections from her fiction. Room 223 60 Succulent plant 
34Adage

twigs &1 Join
Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by NO English Department and 
3& Operatic

10 Bridge coup &2"To-and a
Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies. offering by 
bone ...":141sland or port 

Gounod 
Kiplingnow called 

7 p.m. Film, "Written on the Wind," Annenberg 40 Male sheep, to 63 Tear
Xiamen

Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by a Londoner 64 Less feral 
15 Marry on the run 
41 Fluff, in 65 Racquets and 1&"Welcome
Notre Dame Communication & Theater. 
Frankfurt paddles-,"Altman
9 p.m. Film, "October," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 42 Stem Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame film 43 Touch up old 
17 Operatic DOWN
Communication & Theater. furniture 
offering by 45 Domesticated 1 David, for one Puccini European 2 Actor Sharif 

Thursday, October 11, 1990 
20 Erne or eagle 
polecat 3 Mineral deposit 21 Nerve networks 47 Genre 4 Pair 
noon Coffee Reception, "A Return to Tradition." 
22 Morning 48 Type of scan 5 Like some
Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by 
condensation 49 At right angles paths
Student AlumnAA 
23 Canadian to a ship's keel & Nudge Indians 52 Subject to 7 Like some 
25 Shiny fabric obligation pickles &Choose 9 Lincoln Ctr. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Wednesday, October 10, 1990 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE building
10 A star of 

6:30 p.m. Workshop, "International Students: The Job 

--~,...,-T":""1 "She-Devil"
Search" by Marilyn Rice, assistant director of Career and 
11 Golf shot 

Placement Services. Career and Placement Services Con­
8:::-f.::=-r:::~ 12"-Wantfor 27 Home of the 44 Emulated Tai 51 Backward note? 
ference Room. 
Christmas ...": Sun Devils and Randy 52 Disfigure 1946 song 28 Abilene-to-Fort 45 Dell denizen 53 Kind of bag 
7:30 p.m. "Under the Influence," Jean Kilbourne, 13 Pre-Columbian Worth dir. 46 Major ending 54 Halo Membor of the Board of Directors of the National Council Amerind 29 Style of cooking 48"Le-de 55 Pesky mite of Alcoholism. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored 18 Created 30 Glyceride is one Monte Cristo," 5& Roe by Notre Dame's Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 19 Operatic 31 "Socrate" by Dumas pere 58 Muffler's 
and Saint Mary's College. offering by composer 49 Gelling agent menace
Verdi 33 Reserved 50 Tree trunk 59 Gene material 23 Fact 35 Departed

1"!"'1'~+::-+-:--t-:-1-~ 24 Chemical 37 Wolfe's "­
~±=+=-compound Answers to any three clues in this 
and the River" 

MENUS ..,.+:=+::+=-1 25 IIk puzzle are available by touch-tone -:+.:=-t=:+:-1 26 ---propre 38 Verve phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ft each (self-respect) 39 Misdo minute). 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Ribs London Broil Noodles Romanoff 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
HoW COM£. ~l:ll, '(OUR MOM US£0 1Q mu ·R.E 1\\t. GO \Cl WORK , B\l\ Cll'lCE ONE 'rtl-\0 '(0\J CAMt. f>.L0\116-, 50\o\£0\11£. GO£':. Ttl HM> TO 5\fo-'i \-\OM[ . WORK, 1\ND 
NOT 1-\0I'<P 

Fish funerals 

··~~~j~~··~o~~~.....................sus.MC>vies~·····························; 
frijda)i October 12 THURSDAY f 7:,30 to 10:30 PM ~©~cdl~affil~~ll'--8PM and 1OPM_ . Montgomery Theatre, Adm1ss1on is $1. Stepan Center FRIDAY and SATURDAY 10:30PM 
: 
'f~l9 l\J~~~~ M®rrm~~~--SPM and Cushing Auditoriom, Tickets are $2. 

I. F~A.REN~~BALL 
,...1 Open Forum 
+ WEEKEND -i2 -iSPM 
~ .......... .. ..... .... Fiel~h~~se Mall sTUDENT UNION BOARD 



t.......................................................................... 

Explanations for volleyball
Getting to the bottom or we story behind the release of ex-Notre Dame volleyball coach Art Lambert is frustrating, to say the least. 
This much we know: 

•The Notre Dame players refused to practice at least once last week while Lambert was on a recruiting trip. Some players then met with Ath­letic Director Richard Rosenthal, presumably to air their grievances 
against Lambert. Associate Sports Editor 
championship outside of men's 
basketball.

•Lambert met with Rosenthal on 
Friday. 
Despite the second place fin­

•Friday night Lambert told the press that he would no 
ish, there was cause for the 

longer be coaching the Notre Dame volleyball team. Irish as­
Irish to celebrate as junior 

sistant Maria Perez coached the team to three losses in the 
Mike O'Connell captured the in­
Golden Dome Classic. 
dividual championship. 

•Rosenthal would not make a statement, however. Instead, 
O'Connell finished with a score 

he waited until Monday to announce that Lambert had re­
of 148 en route to the title. 

signed. The official press release was filled with praise for 
Men's golf coach George 

the deposed coach. Rosenthal was quoted as saying "we're 
Thomas was very pleased with 

certainly appreciative of the contributions Art has made 
O'Connell's performance. 

during his seven years as head coach." 
"Mike played an outstanding 

If everybody was so appreciative of Lambert's contribu­
tournament and his victory was 

tions, why didn't they make more of an effort to keep him 
a very positive note for the 
around? 

SMC soccer wins 5-0 to go 10-1-1 

By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team prevailed over the University of Chicago 5-0 yesterday at Saint Mary's Field to improve their record to 10-1-1. 
The Belles played an out­standing match despite wet and cold conditions. 
Saint Mary's first two goals came in the first half of a game that was played for the most part in front of the opponent's goal. 
Ten minutes into the half Megan Dalsaso flicked a goal in after a crossing shot from Tr­ish Troester. Five minutes later Stacy Winget tapped in the ball after a corner kick off of Greer Gilliland. 
"I was happy with the team execution," remarked Coach Tom Van Meter. "Despite the brutal conditions everyone con­tributed to the team effort." 
Saint Mary's began the sec­ond half completely containing the University of Chicago of­fense and defense, allowing 
see SMC/ page 14 
team," Thomas said. "However, 
see LAMBERT/ page 12 

I was disappointed that the 

The Observer 

The St. Mary's soccer team defeated the University of Chicago 5-0 Tuesday night to up their record to 10-1-1 on the season. 
----~ --------~---------~----------­





Sports 
Wednesday, October 10. 1990 

Holtz says ND won't be No. 1 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Partly because of Saturday's loss to Stanford and partly be­cause of Notre Dame football's special situation, Head Coach Lou Holtz discounted any pos­sibility of the Irish winning a national championship this year. 
''I'm not concerned at all about a national championship. As far as I'm concerned, that's a dead issue," said Holtz, speaking at a press conference Tuesday. "The only chance we had was to go 11-0, and play 

' anybody else that went 11-0. When you're here (at Notre Dame), you're not going to win it with a loss." When asked to explain why 
O'Connell wins MCC golf tournament 

By RICK SALVINO 

· Sports Writer 
needed 


situation 
The Notre Dame men's golf 

team finished second Tuesday in the nine-team MCC Golf Championship. The final round was postponed Tuesday due to bad weather conditions, with the Irish only three stro-kes be­hind champion Xavier. 
The second place finish halted Notre Dame's two-year tour­

Ken Tysiac nament winning streak and gave Xavier its first conference J'llotre Dame in particular had "We control our own destiny, to go undefeated to be chosen but the time to worry about as the top team in the country, (winning the national champi­Holtz used the Orange Bowl onship) was last Friday," said last year against Colorado as Holtz. "You've got to be lucky an example. to win a national champi­
"We were number two in the onship, particularly at Notre poll, we played number one Dame. You've got to win it (Colorado) in the poll, we beat overwhelmingly, convincingly, number one very decisively, and or else you don't win it at all." we drop a spot in the final," Not discouraged by the poll said Holtz. "Can you explain specters, Holtz said he likes the that? Now mind you, I'm not improvements his team has complaining." made in the last four weeks. 
Notre Dame going into the "I think we've made an awful game with Colorado was lot of progress in a lot of dif­ranked fourth in the Associated ferent areas and in certain in­Press poll and ended up second. stances approached being a But the sentiment was echoed very, very good football team," by the Blue & Gold Illustrated he said. "Not a great football headline "The Agony of Vic-team. The amazing thing is tory" after Notre Dame beat that there are some areas Colorado, only to watch No. 2 see HOLTZ 1page 12 Miami move into the top spot. 



Mike O'Connell 
team did not win. I felt that we were the strongest team in the tournament, and had we played the final round, we would have won." 
Nevertheless, Thomas was satisfied with the team's per­formance. He attributed the second place finish to a bad ruling by the tournament offi­cials, which cost the Irish four strokes. 
"I anticipated a win by us, but the bad ruling and the poor conditions of the greens really hurt us," he concluded. 
The Irish placed two players 
-shirt raises money 

o support ND studen 
It was the kind of day that changes a life, but in this case Notre Dame students and fam­ily have a chance to erase part of the insult from the injury. 
Graduate student Zheng-de Wang, destined for a doctorate in sociology at Notre Dame, was struck by a car in a hit-S 
tt 8 and-run affair shortly less than co rutocao 
a year ago. He had been walk-Irish Items 
ing to his off-campus home. ____ 
The accident left Zheng-de comatose in South Bend hospi tal for several months. In all, the Chinese 28-year-old was injured so severely that he spent 11 months in the hospital. His parents, from Tianjin in the People's Republic of China, flew to the United States in November and have been assist­ing in his recovery since. 
Zheng-de was uninsured. 
Today, Zheng-de is undergoing therapy at the St. Paul's Retirement Community in South Bend. Although he still can­not talk, he is able to recognize his old friends and move his fingers for simple communication. His doctors have hope that he can regain mobility and speech. 
That is where it stands for him, and here the Notre Dame family can help. In keeping with Zheng-de's extreme physi­cal, emotional and financial plights, a group of Notre Dame students have designed a commemorative T -shirt for next Saturday's Miami game, which marks one year to the day of Zheng-de's accident. 
The shirt is navy blue, with a classy "Notre Dame vs. Mi­ami" and a picture of the two teams' helmets on the front. On the back, there is a multicolored oicture of a !!arne ticket 
see ITEMS 1page 11 
on the seven-man all-conference 
team. In addition to O'Connell, 
sophomore Chris Dayton also 
qualified for the team. Dayton 
shot a 150 for the tournament 
and finished in a tie for third 
place. 
Other contributors to the 
Irish's second place finish were senior Paul Nolta, who shot a 155; sophomore Joe Dennen with a 159 and freshman Jay Johnsrud with a total of 156 for the tournament. 
The tournament concluded the fall schedule for the men's golf team, which now looks to­ward the spring season. Coach Thomas expects improvement, but, because of a very tough schedule, his team will face some major obstacles. 
"We will be facing some of the toughest teams in our re­gion," Thomas commented "and I don't expect us to puli any huge upsets. However, our scoring averages are very good right now, and I hope that we can continue to improve them in the spring." 






