
VOL. XXIII NO. 67 MONDAY , DECEMBER 10, 1990 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Students congregate for peace in. campus protest 
By PETER AMEND 
News Writer 
Over fifty students congre­gated on Fieldhouse Mall on Friday, taking time out of their schedules to reflect on the pos­sibility of war in the Middle East. 
Seven speakers, including a faculty member, local activists and students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provided sev­eral different perspectives on the Middle East issue, with the unified message: prevention of war in the Gulf. 
David Cortright, visiting fac­ulty fellow at the Peace Institute, spoke of the situation in the context of history. "We are gathered here on this 49th anniversary of Pearl Harbor and our nation's entry into World War II to cry out for peace. . . It is fitting that we gather here near the war memorial, and that we pay tribute to the memory of those who have gone before us by struggling to preserve the peace for which they sacri­ficed." 
Graduate student Janet Meissner, the creator of the peace petition that is circulat­ing around campus, said an of­fensive U.S. attack would create further animosity among the Arab people toward the United States, making peaceful attempts at communication more difficult in the futum. 
As students carried signs reading "negotiation not insti­gation" and "Peace on Earth," student speakers addressed the Gulf crisis as an environmental issue that demands more re­search on alternative energy sources in order to break away from our dependence on for­eign oil. 
Senior Jeff Long, a member of the Pax Christi Organization, 
see PROTEST I page 4 

Saint Mary's student dies Thursday in LeMans Hall 
By CORINNE PAVLIS County Coroner to aid in the 
faculties of both departments sitive, and sweet," said Saint Mary's Editor investigation of the death. expressed a deep sense of loss Dominello of the girl she Dr. James McMeel, St. Joseph over the death. "thought of as a daughter."Tragedy struck the Saint County coroner, performed an "She was a bright, warm, and Members of the Psychology
Mary's community on Thursday 

autopsy Friday afternoon but promising student with a deli­Department were also sad­when the body of Laurie was unable to determine the cate spirit, " said Professor dened by the loss. "I would cer­
Lesniewski was discovered by a cause of death. McMeel said Jeanne Rodes of the English tainly say she made incisive. in­Hesidence Advisor in LeMans "the post mortem examination Department. "Laurie did not teresting, and often provocative

llall. 

did not show anything." He have a drop of malice in her comments in class," said asso­Lesniewski, a Saint Mary's added that "we found no and God loves people like her." ciate professor of Psychologysenior from Cheektowaga, N.Y., anatomical cause of death fro·m Joe Miller, adding that he and 
was found dead in her room at 

the post." Assistant professor of English the entire class "enjoyed her approximately 7:30 p.m. "There is no indication at this Laurie Lesniewski Laura Haigwood also offered presence in class and will miss Thursday. point that we should suspect words of praise. "She was a her." 
Stephanie Tarkowski, the Office of College

anything but an overdose of very gifted poet as well as an Lesniewski was survived by
Hesidence Advisor in Communications, adding that

medication, whether it was in­exceptional student who never her parents, Mr. and Mrs. 
Lesniewski's section, was sum­"the students are in no immedi­

tentional or accidental, to have regarded her work as a chore." Francis Lesniewski, and her 
moned by a concerned friend ate danger." Feirrell said that

been the cause of death," said Haigwood said that her reading younger brother Daniel. 
who had expected Lesniewski "at this point we are looking

Officer Charlie Feirrell, Public seemed "to actually nurture Dr. William Hickey, President 
to JOtn her for dinner. into a lot of possibilities. such

Information Officer for the de­he~" · of the College, has been in con­Tarkowski alerted Saint Mary's partment. as health problems we were Lesniewski worked in the tact with the family and said 
Sncurity and the Saint Joseph unaware of." 

Saint Mary's offices of English, that "her parents have been County Police. The police The police have ruled out Lesniewski was a double History, and Political Science deeply moved by the outpouring 
responded to the call just after English/Psychology major in her

homicide, said Brett under Mary Beth Dominello. 
7:30 p.m. and contacted the McLaughlin of the Saint Mary's senior year. Members of the "She was extremely bright, sen-see DEA1lf 1page 4 
Prospects look better for NO freshman injured in last week's snowball battle 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL approached the group, thinking possible detached retina, as News Writer they were fellow residents of well as a blood spot behind the North Quad. eye. A patch was placed over However, the students were his eye to prevent further dam­
An ND freshman is breathing 
actually residents of South age, and medication was ad­
easier today after he learned 
Quad. As Mcintyre and Goggin ministered to control Mcintyre's 
that he will likely not lose sight 
approached the Mall, the South dizziness and eye bleeding. He
from his right eye, which was 
Quad students hurled several was then admitted to the
injurnd In last Tunsday's 
dozen snowballs at the pair. hospitalfor observation. 
snowball fight. 
With assistance from fellow Doctors initially feared
.lamns Mr.lntyre, a resident of 
North Quad students unavail­Mcintyre suffered permanent·
Keenan Hall, was hit in his 
able, Mcintyre and Goggin bore vision damage in the right eye. 
right eye with a snowball dur­
the full brunt of the barrage. Their fears subsided as the
ing the fight, an annual conflict 
bleeding eased, allowing them
bntween North and South 
Mcintyre was hit in the eye to see that the injury was less
Quads which marks the first 
with what he described as a serious than previously
snowfall of the winter. 
"packed and frozen snowball." thought. It is even possible that
The injury occurred around 
The injury, sent Mcintyre back Mcintyre may regain normal vi­
I0:30 Tuesday evening when 
into Keenan Hall with a closed sion without surgery. 
Melntyre and his roommate, 
and bleeding eye. Alarmed hall That prognosis has cheered
Patrick Goggin, ventured out of 
residents t.ook Mcintyre to the Mcintyre, who has been bedrid­
Kmman Hall in search of snow­
infirmary for treatment. den at the hospital since
When the eye failed to heal Wednesday. His spirits have 

overnight, Mcintyre was sent to also been buoyed by visits from The Observer/Cathleen Bernardi
spotted a large gJ;oup of 
Memorial Hospital of South Goggin and from many other Freshman James Mcintyre rests in Memorial Hospital following treat­
students gathered around the 

Bend. He was diagnosed as ment for an eye injury sustained in Tuesday's campus snowball fight.
Fieldhouse Mall. The two 

having a detached iris and a see INJURY I page 4 Mcintyre is expected to recover without impaired eyesight. 

page 2 The Observer Monday, December10, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The spirit of Christmas: a modern view 
In the spirit of Christmas, I've de­cided to downplay the following issues in the hopes that they may fix themselves without a great amount of fuss: 
The first is that the 
senior class officers 
have apparently done 

next to nothing in the Assoc. News Editor 
way of activities or special events. I see posters for every other class except for ours. VVhat do they do in that office? VVoodcarve? 
The second is the recurring ND bookstore legal robbery. VVhile buying necessities the other day, I picked up some deodorant a woman was shelving, noticing the three older price tags covered up. I picked at one, and the woman asked me what I was doing. I told her, and she responded, "That's okay. You won't be able to read the older prices anyway." VVhat happened to customer ser­vice? · Now then, in continuation of the afore­mentioned Christmas spirit, I'd like to make known to you a recent discovery from the Dead Sea scrolls, the Gospel according to Sham. The Immaculate Conception scenes read something like this: And in those days the Lord God sent his messenger the Angel Gabriel to a man who would be the foster father of the Son of the Most High, and Gabriel said, 
Greetings to you. line ofDavid. great king. I come to you now. for the message I bring is from God. If I may. where is your spouse? She'll soon have a child. Is she in the house? 
Joseph replied, 
A child? My spouse a she. you say? 
Both impossible. for my partner is gay, 
As am I. We live together in this 
House in a state of homosexual bliss. 
And lo! Gabriel was dumbfounded, for he had thought this was the Joseph he had been told to visit. He hoped that he had merely gotten the wrong address. And so Gabriel left, looking for a suitable couple for the birthing of the Son of Man. He found a woman of great courage and virtue whose name was Mary, and said to her, 
Hail to thee. Virgin, most favored one. 
To you soon will be born the Son 
OfGod. Great He will be. Jesus his name. 
Dreaming. your husband Joseph shall know the same. 
Mary replied, 
A son? What a joke! Oh. me you kill With your humor. Don't you know I'm on the pill? My boyfriend and I can't have children, I fear, If we did I would surely lose my career. 
Again Gabriel left, much confused, but still looking for the noble and holy couple willing to have the Christ Child. He didn't have much luck. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Ihe Obset:Ver_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7 4 71 
News Peter Loftus  Scoreboard Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Joy Harris  
Michael Owen Rene Ferran  Viewpoint  Tony Paganelli Anita Covelli  
Molly Flecker  Lisa Gunsorek  
Accent  DaveCerto  
Shonda Wilson  Business  
Lisa Eaton Paul Pearson  Production Michelle Wood  Jay Colucci  
Karen Newlove  Circulation  
Sports  Bill O'Roukrke  
Scott Brutocao  ,Systems  Matt Novak  
Amalia Meier  
Fritz Vaisaint  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday eX'Cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon Monday, Dec. 1 0 
Lines show high temperatures. 
3 
FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Amnesty International will hold a VVrite-a-Thon for Human Rights today in the Sorin Room of LaFortune from 5-8p.m. and in the Dooley Room 8-llp.m. 
Bacchus will be having a Christmas party for all in­terested students today at 7p.m. at Theodore's. Fun in­cludes: movies (the Grinch and Rudolph), mocktails and other goodies, and the pledge tree. 
Shenanigans singing and dancing ensemble will perform their annual Christmas concert tonight at 8p.m. in VVashington Hall. 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group will hold an organi­zational meeting on Tuesday, Dec. 11 at 12:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. The focus will be on setting priorities and planning for the spring semester. 
Seniors may sign up for interviews for the first two weeks of Spring Semester through Dec. 14 at Career and Placement Services. 
WORLD 
An Israeli soldier was killed and two were wounded when bombs exploded outside military headquarters in the occupied town of Bethlehem on Sunday, the third an­niversary of the Palestinian uprising. In other violence, an Arab was fatally shot as he tried to strangle an Israeli policeman and grab his rifle Sunday, the army said. Relatives saiQ. he was shot while standing at the door of his home. Soldiers also clashed with masked youths in the VVest Bank village of Bani Nairn, shooting one protester in the leg, the army said. Curfews confined more than a million Arabs to their homes in the occupied territories, some for the third straight day, in an army effort to quell violence on the anniversary of the intefadeh, or uprising. 
Police thought they had made the streets safer by taking away Gregor Hajek's driver's license. But the 29­year-old soldier was back on Vienna, Austria's streets hours later Sunday -with a tank. "I wanted to go home," Hajek told police shortly after climbing out of the M60 tank following a 35-mile drive from a town south of Vienna that ended near his parents home in the Austrian capital.En route the driver had tried to ram one squad car attempting to stop him, ignored several warnings to stop, and drove through a series of red lights. A police car, siren wailing to warn other drivers, had followed the tank on the last part of the journey. 
NATIONAL 
Singer Paula Abdul, one of the 

Yolanda King, daughter of Ma.rtin Luther King Jr.
world's highest-paid entertainers, 
pulled out of an acting performance in Tuscon, Ariz.,
suffered minor injuries in a three-car 
Sunday because she wanted to support efforts to punish
crash Sunday, police said. Miss Ab­
the state for refusing to create a holiday honoring the
dul's 1989 black Jaguar rear-ended 
slain civil rights lea'der. Yolanda King, a 34-year-old
another car, triggering a collision with 
actress, had originally said she would appear in the play,
a third car on Laurel Canyon Boule­
"Stepping Into Tomorrow," even though sports events
vard in Studio City, 10 miles north of 
and conventions have been canceled because of the
downtown Los Angeles, said police Sgt. AI Zardeneta. She was treated at Medical Ce~­ter of North Hollywood and later released, said hospital spokeswoman Sherry Reese. The former Los Angeles Lak­ers cheerleader complained of pains in her head, neck and 
upper body, Zardeneta said. 
INDIANA A large explosion rocked the Fort 
Benjamin Harrison area of Indianapolis Sunday night, causing injury and an evacuation. There were no early confirmed details on injuries. VVISH television reported several people were taken to hospitals. An Associated Press photographer on the scene said the explosion occurred near an apartment house, which had been demolished. "One of the housing units looks completely demolished. It's flat," said Tom Stratman. Fire officials said a natural gas leak may have set off controversy. However, on Sunday, she said she had changed her mind. Attallah Shabazz, the daughter of Malcolm X, decided to keep her commitment to perform in the musical play, which went ahead on schedule Sunday at the University of Arizona. 

NYSE Index 179.07 ..(}-0.64 
the blast, which occurred about 9 p.m. 
A 24-year-old .former Purdue University stu­
S&P Composite .J1..
dent and a Fort VVayne man, who taught English 
327.75 v 1.32

in Kuwait, returned safely to Indiana Sunday, 
Dow Jones Industrials
after being trapped in Iraq for the last four 
2,590.10 ..g,-12.38

months. Chuck Hodde, who attended Purdue, told a group of friends and relatives who greeted him 
Precious Metals 
at the Indianapolis International Airport he had 
Gold .!} $1.10 to $372.1 0/oz. 
remained in Baghdad, and although he said he was more fortunate than most, his ordeal had its 
Silver "' 7.8~ to $4.055/oz.
ups and downs. 
MARKET UPDATE 
1990 
30 
Yesterday's high: 54 
Yesterday's low: 29 
Nation's high: 87 
(Oceanside, CA) Nation's Low: -7 (Jackson, Wyo.) 
Forecast: 
Partly cloudy and not as 
warm today with a high of 
40 to 45. Clear tonight 
with a low around 30. 
Mostly sunny tomorrow 
with a high near 45. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
ALMANAC 
On December 10: 
e In 1520: Martin Luther publicly 
burned the papal edict demanding that he recant, or face excom~unication. e In 1869: Women were granted the right to vote in the Wyoming Terri­
tory. e In 1906: President Theodore Roosevelt became the first American 
to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, for helping to mediate an end to the Russo-Japan War. 
e In 1958: The first domestic pas­senger jet flight took place in the U.S. as a National Airlines Boeing 707 flew 
111 passengers from New York to Mi­ami in about 2 1/2 hours. e Ten years ago: Soviet Presi· dent Leonid Brezhnev, on a visit to In­dia, proposed a plan aimed at easing 
tensions in the Persian Gulf. 

Monday, December 10, 1990 The Observer page 3 
ND Press book on Texas poor wins national award 
Special to The Observer 

A University of Notre Dame Press book, "Poorest of Americans: The Mexiean Americans of the Lower Hio Grande Valley of Texas" by Hobert Lee Maril, has been named one of the 1990 Outstanding Books on Human Hights by the Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Human Hights in the United States. 
In his book, Maril, a faeulty member of Oklahoma University. uses statistical data to deseribn the plight of a community of people who "by almost every quantifiable measure which describes poverty" are poorer than those of any other region, rural or urban, in the nation. 
Examining the region's his­tory from Spanish eolonization to the present, he shows how the development of a two-class system has affected the Valley's political and economic development; how its powerful citizens maintain control over its vulnerable citizens through a pervasive system of patronage; and how the oppression has resulted in a two-tiered system of health care, education, employment and public services. 
The Gustavus Myers Center at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, Ark., was established "to identify, reward, and publicize outstanding books about all kinds of intolerance in the United States." Each January, publishers nationwide nominate books published the preceding year, and the winners are announced on Dec. 10, Human Rights Day. 
The Center is named in honor of the author of a 1943 book titled "The History of Bigotry in the United States." Myers intended his book to be "a realistic narrative of the origins and course of bigotry in the United States," which opposed the notion that bigotry in the U.S. was "spasmodic, having its oc­casional flashes and then seeming to subside, and in no ways significant or affright­ing." Instead, he wrote, "the facts show the smoldering, distorted views of a mass of people blindly ready to follow a leader as often as the propi­tious occasion presents itself." 
Sponsoring organizations for the Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Human Rights in the United States include B'nai B'rith, the Fellowship of Reconciliation, Free Inquiry magazine, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and Project Censored. 
i n rsian gulf t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 1 00% cotton t-shirt. sizes: medium, large, x-large send your name, quantity and size plus your check or money order for $12.95 per shirt to: 
dove promotions p.o. box 1904 south bend, in 46634 
ellow 2 to 4 w-k• tor delivery «:> 1990 dove productions 

Hostages call release 'miracle' 
BAGHDAD,Iraq tAP)-"I am stunned and still cannot believe it, it seems like a miracle," said Lyonell Hoffman, 51, of Melbourne, Fla., in Baghdad. He worked as a contractor in Kuwait before Iraq's invasion and had hidden out since then. 
U.S. officials said they planned to charter another flight in three or four days to evacuate the rest of the esti­mated 750 Americans in Iraq and Kuwait. 
Other flights being arranged included British charters to leave Monday and Tuesday to London, and a flight to Moscow, possibly Sunday night. Airport sources also said hundreds of Vietnamese workers were at the airport awaiting departure. 
The first foreigners to leave Baghdad under the decree is­sued by Saddam last week were a group of about 200 hostages, mostly Italians, who arrived in Rome on Sunday aboard an Italian-chartered jet. 
In addition to the Italians, the flight also carried Dutch, British, Australian, Irish and Finnish citizens, the Italian Foreign Ministry officials said. 
Western diplomats com­plained that Iraqi authorities bad thrown up some last­minute bureaueratic roadblocks to the exodus. 
For example, foreigners in ci­ties other than Baghdad were told they must obtain exit visas from those cities. Those who had been under work contracts were told that Iraqi law re­quires them to present a letter releasing them from their obli­gations. 
Iraq has refused U.S. requests to waive visa requirements for freed hostages, and the processing of the visas alone had been expected to delay some departures for days. 
However, diplomats said Iraqi officials were working quickly Sunday, processing an estimated 80 exit visas an hour. One diplomat said that it nor­mally takes up to half an hour to process a single exit visa. 
"They clearly have a different set of instructions now," said the diplomat. 

1\venty-one former American hostages landed in Houston early Sunday after flying out of Baghdad a day earlier aboard a jet chartered by former Treasury Secretary John Connally, who was in Iraq on a private hostage-freeing mission. 
DWI victim challenges 'estimator' device 
KOKOMO, Ind. (AP) -It's called an estimator, but Eugene Bradley says the alcohol detec­tion device isn't even close. 
Bradley, who was arrested for drunken driving in August, is trying to get his case dismissed because he claims state police entrapped by giving him a faulty estimator. 
The device is designed to let drinkers know when they be­come legally intoxicated. But Bradley says when he used the device after having five beers over two hours at a Kokomo tavern it gave him the OK. 
"The device gives you the idea that you can drink more
. 
than you actually can," said Bradley's attorney, Robert Caravelli of Kokomo. 
Bradley, a 42-year-old con­struction worker, argues that he used the device to estimate his blood-alcohol content and paced his consumption accord­ingly. 
Unfortunately, Bradley says he was unaware that both . the state police and the Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving had discredited the de­vice. 
About 44,000 estimators dis­tributed statewide were re­called because of inaccurate 

CLUB COLUMN 
DECEMBER 10, 1990 
BACCHUS will sponsor a Christmas party on Monday, December 10th at 7:00p.m. in Theodore's. The Grinch and Rudolph will be shown and refreshments will be served. 
This Is the last club column for the fall semester. The 
next club column will be on January 21st. Entries for the 1/21/91 club column will be due on Thursday, January 17th at 5:00 p.m. in the Club Room, 207 LaFortune. 
The Club Coordination Council would like to wish everyone a joyous Christmas and a very happy new year! Happy Holidays! 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 
readings. Many were returned or destroyed, but many were not. And police did not gener­ally publicize the problem with the estimator. 
"Nobody ever notified us of any recall," Caravelli said. 
In addition to seeking dis­missal of the case, Caravelli is asking the,judge to order the state police to publicize the fact that the devices are inaccurate. 

State police spent around $9,000 for 44,000 of the blood­alcohol content estimators in 1987, according to State Police Maj. Jack. Martin, the depart­ment's legal adviser. 
Martin said the state police are not exactly sure of the date whe11 they learned the devices were faulty. 
"One of our chemists in our laboratory brought to our at­tention that this estimator might not be totally accurate. Based upon that, we recalled all the ones we had out at the (state police) districts and de­stroyed them," Martin said. 
But he said the state police didn't feel any need to make any public announcement about the reported inaccuracy of the device. Martin said the public affairs officers in all of Indiana's state police posts were notified of the problem and were directed to collect them. 
The device is a cardboard wheel mounted on cardboard that allows people to match their weight with alcohol con­sumed. By matching the num­bers, the device is supposed to provide an estimate of the per­son's blood-alcohol content. 
_.....ig;;u~~i'~~~-~·~~·~r·~-d~~~-..F~t;;:·striff,..~d·~~~;~·~t=~-&;~ih·~~i'C£~~1Y-~y-·d~;;u;........ 
~ i 
~ Donate packs of KQOL·AID (25¢ ea.) or spare ~ 
1} change for the troops in Saudi i 

Arabia. All donations will ~ be sent on 
December 14th. 8 
w 


HEY KOOL-AID! OH YEAH! Pre-sweetened with NutraSweet ONLY 
For more information contact: Erin Lavelle, SUB General Manager, x4172 Nicole Farmer, Multicultural Executive Council, x2877 Lisa Bostwick, Student Senator #2, x2645 


Joe Wilson, Student Senator #4, x1686




4Wal 
...............................-.......................................................................................................................................1 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
....--------------­page 4 The Observer Monday, December10, 1990 
Student Government, the Hall 0' Hara said she would have repair costs. Matching funds consider participating in next President's Council, and to investigate the Mcintyre were revoked after last year's year's softball fight. "It's up to
Injury 

Student Affairs for reducing incident further before consid­fight caused major property the students to police them­student participation in the ering any changes in the en­damage, but were soon re­selves," Scully said. 
continued from page 1 

snowball fight. The University forcement of ND's anti-snowball stored after intense student friends. has cracked down on the fight fight policy. She ruled out protests. But despite his injury, 
The news of Mcintyre's injury in order to prevent the injuries revoking hall improvement Mcintyre says he will probably dismayed Patricia O'Hara, Vice­and property damage which matching funds, since the min­Brother Bonaventure Scully, participate in the snowball fight President for Student Affairs. has resulted from previous bat­imal property damage from this rector of Keenan Hall, called next year. "Only next time, I'll She had previously praised the tles. year's fight did not require the upon students to remember be wearing a hockey mask," "collaborative effort" between use of such funds to cover Mcintyre's injury when they Mcintyre added. 

Protest 
continued from page 1 
reflected on the Gulf situation in the setting of Christianity. 
Long said that although Jesus preached a message of com­passion for the less fortunate, "war creates the hungry and the sick." 
"In war," he said, "we shoot and bomb Jesus Christ." 
A spokesman for U.S. Representative-elect Tim Roemer read a statement by Roemer who commended the students for organizing such a meeting. He also mentioned that in a recent democratic caucus, he voted for the pro­posal to prevent war unless frrst attacked. 

Those who are interested in voicing their opinion on this is­sue are encouraged to partici­pate in the letter writing cam­paign which have tables set up in the entrance of the· Hesburgh • Library. 
The meeting ended with a prayer for Saddam Hussein and George Bush. 

friend of Lesniewski. "A part of Melvin Fliwinski Funeral Home each of us died when she did, in Cheektowaga, N. Y., last ~ but we will carry her memory night and will continue today 

Death 
continued from page 1 
on forever." from 2-4 p.m. and again from 

Tarkowski, other residents of 7-9 p.m. The home will remain of prayer and sympathy from LeMans, representatives from open however, from 2-9 p.m. the Saint Mary's family." the administration, and friends 
"They told me that her three of Lesniewski will also travel to Funeral services are sched­
years at Saint Mary's were her New York for funeral services. uled for tomorrow at the Queen happiest," said Hickey. The family began receiving of Martyrs Church, also located Daminello agreed with this sen­friends and relatives at the in Cheekatowaga, at 10 a.m. 
timent in saying that "Laurie really loved Saint Mary's and its wonderful personal atmo­
Look out World,
sphere." 

Kris Pierre is finally The Lesniewskis told Dr. 
ZI!

Hickey that "the 'Belles of Saint Mary's' will be played during the funeral services. Mrs. Hickey and I personally will take the condolences of the Saint Mary's community to 
Happy 'irthday Laurie's family on Tuesday," stated Hickey. 
Friends of Lesniewski agree that she was very fond of Saint Mary's. "She really loved the Saint Mary's community, and I think that it is important that Love, Mom, Dad even those who did not know 
and Allisbn
her well attend memorial ser­vices," said Laura Michaels, a 

---------------------.------------------­

1 20% D1scount • 
: TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : 
I I 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
----.
= ~ s 
~ 
Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder 

1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates


North of McDonald's 277-1161 
The parents have requested 
that in lieu of flowers, memori­
als of Laurie be made to Saint · Mary's College in her name. 
Lesniewski friends and hall­
mates gathered Thursday night 
to pray for Laurie and offer 
support for one another. "All 
and all I think the best thing 
that has happened was seeing 
the Saint Mary's community 
come together," said Residence Advisor Tarkowski. 
Hickey stresses that "now it is important for each of us to provide support for one another during this difficult period." 
McLaughlin said that "the counseling center is available as usual to address any con­cerns and question students may have." 



outer 
SPECIAL $2.00 OFF any 




coat 

Cleaned and Pressed 

1991 NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW INFORMATION MEETING.  
TUESDAY DECEMBER 11,1990 7:00 P.M. 122 HAYES-HEALY CENTER  
•  • Jim Ward will be available for questions • Registrations will be taken • 1991 Schedule of Classes will be distributed • Refreshments will be served For further information contact: Executive Programs: 239-5285  

Monday, December10, 1990 The Observer page 5 

Spanish mass Wednesday to mark Feast 
Special to The Observer 
A mass in Spanish will take place Wednesday, Dec. 12 at 5 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church in celnbration of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Patroness of the Aml)ricas. 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir, singing in Spanish, will take part in the celebration, and a spncial collection will be taken for the Mission Clinic of Ahuacatlan, Mexico. 
Guadalupe is the name of a Mexican shrine which com­memorates a series of appari­tions and miraeles reported between the 9th and 12th of December. 1531 by a• native AmNican whose baptismal name was Juan DiHgo. At THpeyac, a hill northwest of Mexico City, Juan Diego met a beautiful woman who claimed to be the Mother of God. Spnaking in his nativn lan­
guage, shn instructed him to have the local bishop, a man 
named ZummaragH, erect a of a local peasant, but in a sub­them to Bishop Zummarage as began immediately, and Juan church on thn site. sequent apparition, the woman a sign of her favor. When Juan Diego's cloak was enshrined directed Juan Diego to a rocky Diego did so, a painted image of there. Since then, the distinc­The initial approach was dis­place on Tepeyac in which the woman was discovered tively American image of Mary appointing, as ecclesiastical roses grew splendidly out of beneath the flowers. emblazoned on the homespun authorities wern reluctant to season. She told him to gather garment has been venerated by accept the prophetic credentials these into his cloak and to take Construction. of the church Catholics and others worldwide. 



Walesa wins big in Poland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Lech Walesa, the shipyard worker who helped lead his country out of Communism, swept to a laudslide victory in Poland's first popular presidential vote Sunday, according to exit polls. 
Walesa defeated emigre busi­nessman Stanislaw Tyminski, a virtual unknown before the campaign, by a margin of 77 percent to 23 percent, accord­ing to an exit survey of 22,500 voters at 303 representative 

" 
polling stations nationwide. 
"There are terribly difficult tasks waiting for us," a smiling but serious Walesa said as he sipped a congratulatory glass of champagne before the televi­sion cameras and adoring sup­porters in Gdansk, where his Solidarity movement began. 
"I hope that we will be build­ing Poland's future together. I want to behave firmly, I want to firmly correct everything that is wrong, and make firm accounts for everything that has not been accounted for yet." 
Tyminski declined to concede defeat immediately, saying he did not trust the polls. He said he would remain active in Polish politics. 
Outgoing President Wojciech Jaruzelski, who sent Walesa to jail under martial law nine years ago, sent his congratula­tions. He wished the new presi­dent ''fruitful activity for the good of our homeland." 


Poster Signed & No. (18"x24") $23.75 shipped T-Shirt $19.50 shipped Long-Sleeved T -shirt $25.00 shipped 
CA Rnldentlaad 8 25'11. SaJn Tu 

Cl Rigler Production• 1001 Bndgeway f705, Sausalito, CA 9496!' 800-553--8387 


The LSATis When? 
ai S H. KAPlAN 
~lake 1\aplan OrlakrYourChances 
2/9/91 LSAT Prep Classes Start 1/21/91 
in South Bend. 
Sign up before 
the holidays! 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466 3 7 PHONE 219/272-4135 
·------------------~----· 

Monday, December 10, 1990
page 6 The Observer 


Invite a seRior who aced the course over for pizza. (This is known as "Pizza Gratia Passa" or Pizza for the Sake of Passing.) 
Pepperoni slices make good page markers. 
Economics is easier if you've got a coupon. 
To reduce stress, kick back with a Domino's Pizza and 
Coca-Cola~ 

Sunday Double : Early Week Special : T~o Large Piz.zas
Feature : . wtth one topptng. 
I 

I . . I One Large Original Pizza $499 1Get two Large Pizzas $1095 I

$59 9 

I T~o S~ll Ong~nal . . I with one topping for $4.99. 1with the topping of I I PIZzas With _the toppmg I Available Monday and 1your choice for I : of your chmce for : Tuesday only. 1 :
:Ill Validatpartk:lpating.storesonly.Notvalldwi"!anyotheroffers.CIJStom&l'. p.ays : ValldatpartiopabogstO<esDilo.Notvalidwtthanyotheroffern.Customerpays : Ill Validatparticipatmg.storasonly.Not'o'alld'!ilhanyotherofferaCustomerpa.ys :
~~ 

sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure sale driving. Our sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe drivlng. Our sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure sale driving. OurI • drivers carry less than $20.00. Our liwers are not penalized lor late delivenes I . drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late dellv81'ies I • drivers carry less than $20.00. Our dnvers are not penalized for late dellvenes 1 
~-_:_~ ~---------G~'::I~I~ -~--·~ ~---------~~1.:21~-_j--....:. :_~--------~~~::!~'~ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 816 Portage Ave.
IB35South&ndAve. 
1!:)1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 




Business 
Monday, December10, 1990 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS Worries about the economy and the Middle East overshadowt'ld the holiday spirit in November, giving many big  'Steve the I Tramp' off  
retailers another disappointing month and raising the possibility  
of a disastrous Christmas for some storeowners. Consumers sharply curtailed their holiday spending even during the  the market  
Thanksgiving weekend, traditionally one of the year's most  
popular shopping periods, sales reports issued Thursday  STAMFORD, Conn. (AP) -A  
indicated. Several stores said their sales fell from November  national toy-store chain has  
1989 levt~ls, including Sears. Hoebuck and Co.; J.C. Penney Co.  stopped selling "Steve the  
Inc. and May Department Stores Co.  Tramp" dolls after some people and others picketed outside a  
The Federal Reserve revealed it took no action to support  mall and complained that the  
the dollar during the August-October period, when the U.S.  character from Dick Tracy de­ 
curmncy fflll precipitously and touched new lows in foreign  means the homeless.  
exchange trading. This was the second consecutive three-month  
pPriod that the F1~d declined to step in to support the dollar. But  The doll, sold by the Walt  
ollieials at the nation's cnntral bank stressed that their inaction  Disney Co.. is described on its  
should not be interprnted as a sign monetary authorities are  packages as an "ignorant bum  
unconcernmi about the dollar's dncline.  .. . dirty and scarred from a life  
'  on the streets. You'll smell him  
The world's leading industrial nations (with the exception  .before you see him."  
of Clerrnanyl an~ nxpnctnd to sutTer economic declines in 1991  A protest Friday by 12 people  
as crndit tightnns around the globe and trade subsides, the Conference Board said. The latest data show the leading  at the Stamford Town Center persuaded Kay Bee Toy &  
Pconomk indicators are nat or declining in nine of the world's  Hobby to remove the doll from  
top I I industrial nations, the board said.  its 1,200 stores, said Ken Cun­niff. vice president of advertis­ 
Talks among 107 nations trying to draft an ambitious  ing for the California-based  
global trade pact came dose to collapsing after the Europnan  chain.  
Community rnjected a last-minutfl compromise proposal to  "The character would be line  
makn significant cuts in farm subsidies. Various trade ministers  if it was just an old curmud­ 
suggnstnd that thn European action late Thursday virtually  geon, but I think the copy on  
doonwd any chances for reaching a trade agreement this week  the package goes too far,"  
in Bruss1~ls. But many said they would campaign to get more  Cunniff said.  
discussions schnduled.  Homeless people and activists  
Trading in crude oil futures would be temporarily  in Stamford organized a protest  
suspnnded in response to large price swings, under a plan  against the doll after an  
approved by thn New York Mercantile Exchange. The plan also  Episcopal priest, the Rev.  
would _limit the amount oil could rise or fall each day to $15 per  Christopher Hose of Hartford,  
barn~! and the amount gasoline or home heating oil could rise or fall to 40 cents a gallon each day.  put the doll at the top of his AP Photo annual list of "Warped Toys for Christmas," which he circulates Christmas in New York  
Continental Airlines. which filed for bankruptcy protection this week, announced it will begin daily non-stop service to Frankfurt from Newark International Airport on June I. Also, a sharnholders lawsuit filed in New York charged  to social action groups. In an annual Christmas ritual, it took 200 workers two weeks to hoist''I'm homeless, and you don't into position and decorate this 75-foot Norway spruce in Rockefellersmell me before you see me," Plaza. · said Carlton Whitehorn, one of  
Continental officials with making misleading comments about the troubled carrier's plans to seek bankruptcy protection in an effort to prop up its stock value. The Houston-based airline  the protesters on Friday. ''I'd like to let Disney know that Je­'After the fish soup'sus Christ was homeless, too."  
. disputed the allngations. The government said Michael Milken's admitted crimes  The doll is one of 14 figures of criminals and mobsters in­in Eastern Europe 
involved more than $4.7 million in fraud, an amount requiring more than three years in prison before parole. The defense disputed thn calculations, placing the total at a maximum of $693,000, which would make the former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. junk bond financier eligible for parole after two years imprisonment. The estimates were presented to U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood as part the process of determining the minimum time Milken must serve in prison.  spired by the movie "Dick Tracy," which was produced by By PATRICK NINNEMAN rate. He argued that "the peo­ple will accept capitalistDisney's Touchstone Pictures. Business Writer inequalities based on merit, The package containing the The Notre Dame Council on whereas they disliked commu­nist inequalities based on fam­doll reads: "Hardened and bit­International Business Devel­ter after a life on the mean opment met to discuss the ily or connections." streets, Steve the Tramp is a changing economic and political Capital problems will need to lout who would just as soon climates of Eastern Europe, be solved with the help of for­ 
A federal judge in Texas froze a Houston company's assets after regulators charged it had bilked investors out of at least $350,0000 with false claims about a deal to dispose of low­lnvel radioactive waste in Africa. Houston-based FMF Corp. also falsely claimed to have had a deal with a pharmaceutical company to dispose of 30,000 tons of contaminated waste, according to a civil lawsuit brought on Thursday by the SI!CUrities and Exchange Commission.  eigners. Bruszt stated thattake your life as your wallet. focusing primarily on Poland "Hungary already has a sizableDespite a low I.Q., he's as dan­and Hungary, Thursday. gerous as they come because The two speakers were Laszlo private sector, but that sector has very little money for in­he doesn't have anything to Bruszt, a visiting professor of vestment." Foreign investmentlose." sociology from Hungary, and In a statement Friday, the Father Timothy Scully, profes­would help that problem, ac­Walt Disney Co. defended the sor of Government at Notre cording to Bruszt. Having spent time in Polandtoy as "not intended in any way Dame. last summer, Scully discussedto represent the homeless." Bruszt discussed the changes  

Food for troops saves businesses 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) ­Two Evansville businesses that faced lean times this summer are in the middle of an unex­pHcted boom thanks to hungry soldiers serving in Operation Dnsert Shield. 
Companies that make MREs, or Meals Ready to Eat, have benefited from increasnd de­mand for military ration kits, including $31.7 million in con­tracts announced this week. 
"We wt~re looking at a very bleak future,'' said John Net­tMberg, president of Shelf Stabln Foods. "The government has told us war rnservns were largn and the budget was tight. .. 
Shdf Stable Foods planned to lay off about 150 of its 280 workers before the Persian Gulf crisis began, Netterberg said. Tlw company now plans to add 30 or 40 workers, he said. 
AmeriQual Foods Inc. wasn't planning layoffs. But the com­pany has hired about. 100 workers since September, dou­bling its work force. 
At least 75 of those workers were added because of the in­creased military demand, said company Vice President Don Rupprecht. AmeriQual, which also makes commercial mi­crowave dinners, plans no more hiring at this time, he said. 
The companies are two of about six in the United States that make MREs for the mili­tary. 
Before the Persian Gulf crisis, the Pentagon had told the com­panies to expect cuts of 27 per­cent to 30 percent in their regu­lar contracts. 
Procurements would not have been enough to keep all of the MRE companies in business, Netterberg said. 
Now it is uncertain whether the companies can keep up with the demand, Rupprecht said. "It's going to be rough,'' he said. 
"This involves a lot of over­time, a lot of inefficiencies," Rupprecht said. "We have to do a very careful ma"agement to make any money on this." 
Under the new c·ontractsb AmeriQual will make 22 million MREs for $26.4 million, accord­ing to Lorraine Netzko, spokeswoman for the Defense Personnel Support Center. 
Shelf Stable Foods will make 4 million MREs for $5.3 million, she said. The company also will benefit as a subcontractor for an assembly contract expected to be awarded its sister .com­pany, RAFCO of McAllen, Texas, Ms. Netzko said. 
Shelf Stable Foods' MREs will be included in combat ration kits assembled by RAFCO, which also will include other foods such as crackers, cheese, coffee mix and gum. 
Ms. Netzko said the military sends more than 1 million one­day ration kits to U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf each month. The kits contain several MREs. 
In recent years, the Pentagon bought 323.5 million MREs a year, she said. The military ex­pects to buy six times that number in 1991, Ms. Netzko said, and more may be needed. 

presently occurring in Hungary. He said that many social and economic barriers exist against Hungary's attempts to move towards a market economy. 
Bruszt likened Hungary's problems to making fish soup. He mused: "It is very easy to transform an aquarium into fish soup. After the fish soup, it is not so easy to get the aquar­ium again." He feels that although dissolving markets under communism was fairly easy, their re-creation will be much more difficult. 
Hungary faces three major problems, according to Bruszt. The first problem is financial indebtedness, which Bruszt puts as the largest in the re­gion. The second is the mainte­nance of social and political stability as free markets form. "Creating competition and a class of owners could be a source of strife,': he said. The third and largest problem for Bruszt, is the lack of capital to drive economic growth. 
Bruszt offered some solutions. He feels that some social problems, deriving from capi­talism, will eventually evapo­some of the problems facing that country. The two greatest difficulties he noted are envi­ronmental problems and the lack of what he called "the cul­ture of the market." 
Scully said that the pollution problems in all the urban areas he visited were terrible. As proof, he offernd the fact that "after only five minutes of jog­ging, I experienced a great deal of difficulty breathing." He ar­gued that this legacy of Leninist communism provides strong evidence against the environ­mental theories that more gov­ernment and less markets solve pollution problems. 
lie also noted that although competition exists in every soci­ety, personal competition and wide scale market competition do not always fall hand in hand. He mentioned the lack of a commitment to service for the consumer. Scully said "I went to a barber and they treated me as though I was causing them an-inconvenience." He argued the Poland neednd to develop a "culture of the market" before capitalism could really work in that society. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Viewpoint 
page 8 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administr;ation of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority oMhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Monday, December 10, 1990 
II IRVING \~so JITifRY ().BOllfTHb: QUAl<£, I'M fll:Rf\ID I'LL ~AVf TO ~~~M 1-\IM If: Wf. EVER HAVE ON{;... 1' 

EDITORIAL 

Student input needed to change registration 
The process of selecting classes and registering for 
them is never an easy one. This year, more than ever, it 
became obvious that the registration process needs to be 
improved. 

As students, it is not only our responsibility but our 
right to see that changes are made to improve the 
process. We are paying dearly for a quality education; 
problems that prevent the University from delivering that 
quality need to be rectified. 

We need to take an active role in improving our reg­
istration process. Everyone complains about registration: 
DART has its faults, there aren't enough classes or there 
aren't enough professors. If all we do is sit around and 
complain, we're wasting our tuition money. 
If you've had problems with DART, write a letter to the 
Registrar. Are you short on classes? Talk to your 
department chairman. Do you think we need more 
professors? Write the Provost. The only way we're going 
to prevent registration from continuing to be the debacle 
that it was this year is to give the Administration our 
input and recommend the needed changes. 
Last Wednesday, Student Government sponsored an 
open forum on the problems of the registration process. 
Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and Registrar, 
Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, 
and Bob Williamson, associate dean of Business 
Administration, were present to hear student's input on 
the problems of registration. Only eight students showed 
up to voice their concerns. 

If registration is to be improved, we, as students, need 
to show more interest than we did on Wednesday. We 
need to go to these forums. We need to write more 
letters. We need to let the Administration know that we 
expect more from them for the $15,000 a year we are 
paying. 

In our society, when someone buys a $15,000 car, they 
expect it to work. If there is something wrong with the 
car, you can be sure that the owner will raise a fuss__:and 
keep doing so until the car is fixed. Our education is that 
$15,000 car, and it is obvious that our car isn't working 
the way it should. The question is, do we make sure that 
it is fixed or do we just learn to live with the defects? The 
answer should be obvious. 
LETTERS 


U.S. quick fix is unavailable in Kuwait 
Dear Editor: 
It was with much dismay that I read Rich Kurz' Inside Column, "U.S. takes right position in Gulf Crisis" (The ·Observer, Nov. 29). Mr. Kurz states that the true intent of Operation Desert Shield is to free "a small, helpless country which cannot defend itself, and to keep an evil dictator from 
having the world in his hands." 
As a senior government and 
international studies major with 
a concentration in the Middle 
East, I can tell you the reason 
we are there is quite different. 
This year I am working on a 
senior essay concerned with a 
strategic energy policy and the 
effect of recent developments in 
the Middle East concerning this. 
First of all, for the past 15 or 20 
years we have had no strategic 
energy policy and have given 
very little effort to creating 
alternate energy sources and 
uses. 
Every book and article I read 
convinces me more that the 
main reason we are in the 
Middle East right now is to save 
ourselves, economically, from 
near-complete devastation 
because our government has been totally irresponsible with our energy needs. 

If Saddam Hussein ruled a poor, resourceless country in middle Africa somewhere and he took over a small neighbor and committed all sorts of atrocities, would we be there on his border with 500,000 
.. troops? I think not. If I offered a,. similar example in Far East Asia, where we have few energy interests. would he send troops? I think not. 
Mr. Kurz asks, "What kind of hypocrite would the United States be if we promised that (the right to life. liberty, and the pursuit of happiness) to our own people, but didn't care about the rights of any other country?" The U.S. has been hypocritical concerning these principles on numerous occasions--just read a history book. 
When issues have clear and identifiable truths to them. truths that don't fit our particular political taste or the fad of the moment, we feel a need to justify and rationalize away positions. If one fulfills his patriotic duty by mimicking George Bush word for word, then that is his prerogative; true patriotism, however, will look inward and ask, "How could we have avoided this? What can.we do to insure our security, not just quickly fix it?" 
I pray that the world community will continue th~ world embargo and isolation of Saddam Hussein for the heinous acts he has committed and that a peaceful solution is soon forthcoming. I pray that our present leaders will become responsible policy makers with regard to future energy policies and our related vulnerabilities. I also pray that, regardless M the media blitz and patriotic exhortations, people will be able to openly and truthfully admit why we go to war. 
Finally, I hope Mr. Kurz will quit deceiving himself and read up on why we are really risking the lives of 500,000 troops in the Middle East-for if the draft is instituted, he may just have to die for it. 
Thomas M. Kelly Cavanaugh Hall Nov. 29, 1990 

Debates present new opportunities for all 
Dear Editor: 
The 1991 Iceberg Debates 
.standing Committee urges stu­dents to participate in the Iceberg Debates. The event is a campus-wide undergraduate debate series which began in 1989 to further intellectual life and the discussion of social jus­tice issues within the Notre Dame community. The emphasis is on values 

and ideas which are intended to inform the participants, as well as the spectators. Judging is based upon the debaters agility to communicate and argue logically, rather than the speed of his or her presentation. 
Therefore. absolutely no previous debate experience is necessary. In fact, novices in the past have been quite successful at defeating even well-versed debaters. We encourage anyone interested to sign up with his or her hall president by Dec. 11. 
Kathryn Pirrotta, Chairperson Suzanne FitzGerald, Public Relations 1991/ceberg Debates Committee Dec4, 1990 


5TUARJ HITMt-' f 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
KINOA MAI<t5 YCXJ M/95 MAI<t/30RO 
'The secret of my success is constancy in purpose.' 
Benjamin Disraell 
--=-----_-_-__--~------=:::..-~___._..._----~ 

Viewpoint

Monday, December 10, 1990 page 9 
-
LETTERS 




NO students avoid questioning of authority 
Dear Editor: a crisis of these proportions, students with a basis for form­been told is "the right one." The Mr. Kurz and Mr. Alessandri are 
There's a disturbing tendency but for a college-education per­ing rational, moral positions most important part of becom­entitled to their, opinions. As an towards blind commitment to son to buy so wholeheartedly about pressing issues. ing committed to any point of individual who would like to see «correct" opinions on this cam­into nationalistic propaganda Mr. Alessandri did explain the view is to weigh both sides of our society and our government pus, as evidenced by several which says that America must need for hearing both sides of the issue in one's mind and function as well as possible, letters and columns in The destroy the presence of evil the argument in his Jetter, but I then to make one of them one's though, I think that as students Obs11rver Nov. 29. Upon open­wherever it manifests itself don't feel that he is allowing for own viewpoint after careful and as citizens, we need to ing The Observer to see Rich truly terrifies me, Not even freedom of thought among the consideration. question more heartily the Kurz's overly propagandized President Bush has come out students on this campus in his One of the goals of college­authority of our government vi11w of the American deploy­with a statement like Mr. Kurz's fear that emotions might run education is to prepare individ­instead of using tired old mnnt in tho Porsian Gulf. I had regarding the American rampant in a debate over such uals to make conscientious. nationalist cliches like "taking a to stop eating. It's frightening involvement in the Persian Gulf. a topic. Emotions are certainly reasoned decisions about real leading role in fighting evil in that any college-educated per­The other letter which struck a factor in forming any issues when confronted by the world" to legitimize our son in this country could spout a similar note was Fernando decision, and they must be con­them. Can we really expect to government's actions. We need ofT !inns like, UThe true inten­Alessandri's letter regarding sidered along with all of the ra­form reasoned positions on is­to hear all of the dissenting tion of the operation is to free a S.U.B.'s abortion debate of Nov. tional arguments which accom­sues, though, when we are con­opinions before we can under­small. helpless country which 29. While Mr. Alessandri has a pany any issue. sistently provided only one side stand what our own opinions cannot defend itself. and to legitimate point in his argument If one should come to change of issues which the Church or really are. Besides, if we, as in­keep an 1wil dictator from hav­that the Church condemns his or her own views regarding the administration finds con­quisitive and conscientious stu­ing tlw world in his hands," and abortion as an atrocity, and abortion after hearing both troversial? Can we expect to be dents, refuse to question au­the line in the following para­hence might not want to sides of the issue, that decision, functional citizens in a democ­thority and to hear dissenting 
-

graph which states, support a pro-choice speaker whether moral or not, is cer­racy when we fail to question voices. who will? uTraditionally, the U.S. has on campus, his fear that people tainly more respectable than the morality or the authority of taken a leading role in defend­might be swayed into a pro­that of the person who blindly our government when it makes David J. Holsinger ing the world against evil...." choice stance because of this follows the one side of the issue controversial commitments? St. Edward:c; Hall 
Mr. Kurz is, of course, entitled debate is not only ludicrous but which he or she has always I understand fully that both Dec. 3, 1990 to this llSpousal of flag-waving shows an underlying feeling of nationalism. but when I realize wanting to suppress dissenting that people who are supposed opinions. · to hn the educated elite of our country, the people who It is one thing for S.U.B. to qu11slion the authority of the invite a pro-choicer to speak govnrnment when it takes without rehuttal on the topic of questionahle actions and hold abortion; for one to vote not govnrnment to he responsible to even to hear the other point of thn peopln are saying (and view in a debate where both worsn yet, believing) things like sides of the issue are presented, this, it disturbs me greatly. however, is evidence of sup­
It's one thing for the govern­pression of intellectual freedom nwnt to spout overly nationalis­and is contrary to the tie rlwtoric whnn confronted by University's desire to provide 
Student government support of 
D.C. march reflects majority will 
Dt•ar Hdilor: pearance by Rosa L. Parks be­In our first letter to the editor cause of her outstanding this year. we vowed to work achievements in the civil rights 
Dear Editor: conflicting -views. Perhaps sources on feminism are nottoward transforming Student movement. On the other hand, Tuesday evening, the there may be a few feminists anti-feminists such as DaleGov11rnment into an organiza­we facilitated a visit from Feminist Forum and Year of who fit the description above, O'Leary who, in her SUB ­tion that addresstls issues be­Geraldine Ferraro. whom we Women will hold a discussion. but they are a small minority. sponsored speech. claimed that
yond the Golden I>qme. We respect for her accomplish­
on the movie Pretty Woman. To say that you are opposed to most feminists are atheists andhave nndeavored to"do this ments as the first female can­The Feminist Forum was feminism because you disagree were abused by their fathers.
through various means. Our· didate for Vice-president but recently established by a group with this small minority's in­You'll have better luck if you"Public Forum on with whom we personally dis­of women who felt that, while terpretation of feminism is like put down your shield and talkContnmporary Issues" agree because of her advocacy there are many feminists on saying that you are opposed to to a feminist.
manifHsts our most visible of pro-choice. Consistent with 
campus, there was no arena democracy because you dis­The discussion on Pretty
approach to fulfilling that goal. this practice, we funded a for discussion on women's agree with George McGovern's Woman will be at 7 p.m.,
Through this lecture series, we group of students who wished issues, nor was there a vehicle interpretation of democracy. Tuesday, in uThe Loft" ofhave tri11d to spark discussion to express their solidarity with through which issues could be The underlying gist of femi­O'Shag. It is not an attempt toabout the important issues of the suffering of El Salvador in a addressed and acted upon. nism is that men and women bombard you with radical fem­our time. Additionally, our co­trip to that country com­While the Observer are equal and that all people, inist theory but an opportunitysponsorship of the Washington, memorating the murder of six frequently runs articles and women and men, should be for dialogue. We chose thisD.C. trip to protest the Hoe v. Jesuit priests at the Catholic editorials on women's issues, it able to do anything they want movie because it is extremelyWado decision embodies our University of El Salvador. 
really does not provide for with their Jives, as long as it popular with women and men,most mcent effort to address a We firmly believe ti)at. when productive dialogue between does not infringe on the rights feminists and anti-feminists,eurrnnt issue of paramount it comes to supporting students 
the opposing sides. of others. Although you may and it brings up many ques­
concern -proteetion of the who wish to participate in di­Furthermore, we feel that it is disagree with the way some tions. "Why does the traditional unborn. rect, visible action on a political more effective to make an feminists interpret this idea, Cinderella story still hold up,Perhaps our decision to sup­issue, such as the march in active effort to improve the we hope that y-ou at least even today? How is it possibleport students who wish to ex­Washington to protest the Roe situation rather than simply agree with this basic principle. for a feminist to like this film,pross solidarity with the un­v. Wade decision, we must per­point out the obvious problems. We urge those who criticize the even if ihe or he finds parts ofborn has beon unpopular with form according to our most Before some of you throw feminist movement to first it sexist?" The discussion will some. It may be, however, that deeply held beliefs and, to the down your paper in disgust be­sympathetically examine the be led by Professor Hilarythis decision provides us with best of our abilities, to those of cause you equate the word various forms of feminism. Radner of the Communication 
an opportunity to reflect on our constituency. As your 
"feminism" with the "bra-burn­Criticism is fine, but it proves and Theatre department. Wethemes of some importance. elected representatives, ideally, ing, family-wrecking, man-hat­unproductive if you have only encourage you, feminist or not,.Joseph Cardinal Bernadine of our beliefs on most issues ~cho ing, hairy-legged radicals," superficial knowledge of what to come and join in the
Chicago asserted that llach those held by the majority of 
please be aware that this you are criticizing. The best discussion.
moral and ethical decision in the student body. However. at stereotype is very inaccurate. way to learn about feminism is Megan Wadethe life of every human com­times, it is possible that these The word "feminism" repre­to talk to a variety of feminists. Feminist Forum munity forms a «seamless gar­might conflict.. When such sents quite a variety of-even Generally, the most reliable Dec. 7, 1990ment," each becoming a part of conflicts arise, it is often diffi­a single, unified fabric. Every cult to find a resolution that moral decision, from small to satisfies all. 
Amnesty aids those deprived of rights
gn~at. shapes the garment of We hope, and indeed are con­our society. The "seamless vinced, that our decision to Dear Editor: man rights abuses by partici­will also be sending holidaygarment" of the good society is pursue an ethic of a "seamless Monday, Dec. 10 is Human pating in Amnesty 
greeting cards to prisoners of 
an ideal which we embrace and garment" -including even the Rights Day. Human rights are International's Write-a-thou. conscience in several countries. 
twen dare.. to emulate at Notre tortuously divisive issue of sup­inalienable rights that all peo­Amnesty International is an in­Please take a few minutes toDam11. It is a goal towards port for the unborn -reflects ple everywhere possess. The dependent, world-wide human 
stop by LaFortune today in the
which we strive in our many -the will of the majority of the 
United Nations has rights organization that works Sorin Room from 5 to 8 p.m. or
if often flawed -decisions, ae­student body. Though it is ap­documented these rights in the for the release of prisoners-of­the Dooley Room from 8 to 11tions, and b11liefs. parent that our decision is not Universal Declaration of conscience who have not used p.m. to write a Jetter or sign aIn support of this ideal of the shared by all, we appreciate, Human Rights. Some people, or advocated violence, for fair card and make a difference.
good human society, we have respect, and encourage open however, are deprived of these and ·prompt trials for all Human rights abuses can stop,
addressed a variety of issues discussion on this· ami every is-rights. Men, women and. political prisoners and opposes but only if we make an effort. over the course of the year. Our sue. children are imprisoned for torture or the execution of approach has entailed provid­Robert F. Pasin their beliefs, their color, their prisoners in all cases. Kelly Reuba 
ing exposure to philosophies Student Body President sex, their ethic origins. their At the write-a-thou, we will 
Group leader that we endorse as well as Fred Tombar 1/1 language or their religion. be writing letters on behalf of Amnesty International opinions that we reject. On the Student Body Hce President I am encouraging everyone to individuals who suffer from 
Group #43 

one hand, we organized an ap-Dec. 4, 1990 take a stand against these hu-these human rights abuses. We Dec. 3, 1990 

~--·_--·___--_--_-------=--------_----­
-
Accent 
page 10 Monday, December 1 0, 1990 
Student's death becomes gift of life 
Steve Saunders' parents donate ~is organs 
By SHONDA WILSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The tragedy of the death of Steve Saunders, a former Notre Dame freshman, did not end there, but served as a gift of life for another individual. 
Graduating from Aquinas High School as valedictorian of his cJass, Saunders' career at Notre Dame was cut short. In a single-car accident during the summer of 1989, the 19-year­old lost out on all of his hope,

-his dreams, and his life. When the specialists of Uni­versity of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics determined that Saun­ders' brain was no longer functioning, Carl and Susan Saunders, the parents of the victim, decided that organ do­nation was the only thing for them to do. 
"When they came in and told us the results of their testing and our alternatives, they men­tioned organ donation," says according to a letter sent to the '11t was just so cleansing. I had Susan. "I knew what Steve Saunders by David's family in wanted to talk with her for so would have wanted us to do. He appreciation of their act of long." was such a bright, alive person. selflessness. He would have wanted some­Organ donation is usually Walljasper lost the function of thing good to come out of such kept confidential, so the Saun­both of her kidneys during a a terrible situation." ders were never informed of routine medical design. At Iowa 
"What happened to Steve was the identity of the recipients. City she was placed on dialysis, such a devastating loss to our "Unless the donor family and which caused her to lose all en­family," says Carl, "but if do­recipient agree ... the identity of ergy. Because "our bedroom is nating his organs can keep both parties is kept confidential on the second floor," says someone else alive, somehow, it for their own protection," says Walljasper, "I could only go up can help justify what has hap­Smith. a few steps at a time before I pened." had to rest." 
According to Alicia Smith, Di­Susan was surprised, how­The dialysis also caused an rector of Education for the Or­ever, to receive a phone call increass in Walljasper's blood gan Procurement Program at from Joan Walljasper of Iowa pressure and the blood vessels With this in mind, Walljasper knowing how much good has the University of Iowa Hospitals City, saying that she knew who in her eyes to burst, making her decided to be an example for come of this. Steve's life is go­and Clinics, who has been with the donor of her kidney was blind for days at a time. "I everyone of what a transplant ing on in so many ways," says the program for four years, "I and asking to talk with her. couldn't move. I couldn't see. I can do for a person. "I want Susan. · \ · have never had a family come Joan realized who her donor knew that I wasn't going to people to know just what a dif­back to me later and say they was the moment she returned make it much longer," says ference organ donation makes." Donating one's organs is a regretted the decision." home from the hospital because Joan. That's when she decided As a result of the transplant, simple procedure. It just re­
Saunders was able to help she lives in West Point, Iowa, to have her name added to a the Walljasper of today is quires that one print his or her both a 15-year old boy and a eight miles form Fort Madison, waiting list for an organ trans­different from the one of wishes on the back of his or her 42-year-old woman. By donat­the Saunders' home town. plant. yesterday. "It's wonderful. I'm driver's license. It may also be ing one of his kidneys to David, "When I came home and real­learning how to be healthy done by filling out a uniform the 15-year-old, Saunders is ized that Steve Saunders had "When I realized who it was, I again." donor card. For more informa­bettering David's chances of died within a day of my trans­cried, mourned for this body. I Knowing about the lives that tion about organ donation, call living a normal life. "This is plant, it was easy to put it all was keeping a piece of this boy their son has improved has al­the Organ Procurement Pro­possible because of ... [the together." inside of me who had so much lowed the Saunders to accept gram at the University of Iowa Saunders' unselfish act in do­"I don't really know how to potential. I almost felt guilty," their son's death a little more. Hospitals and Clinics, (319) nating ... [their] son's organs," describe it," says Walljasper. says Walljasper. "It means so much to me, 356-4944. 
Students in Ireland run race for charity 
By SARAH VOIGT The group set up a table for a few Accent Writer days at "The Arts Block," the student center at St. Patrick's College. They How does a marathon become a also worked together to collect charity event? money from a dance that normally 
Ask the five Notre Dame and Saint has no charge. After soliciting Mary's students studying in Ireland neighbors and a few stores, the this semester who have raised 1,900 group had raised 700 pounds. pounds (about $3,600) for· Childline, a hotline for sexually and physically The total after collecting donations abused children. from family and friends in America 
increased to 1,900 pounds, almost 
Colleen Knight, Katy Howe, Kristen twice their initial goal. Colleen Knight Cade, Molly Coyle and Kerry Meehan wrote in a letter, "We are all excited, each ran a portion of the 26.4 mile since our goal was to raise 1,000 Dublin City Marathon recently. For pounds, and even that sounded pretty three weeks before the race they col­high." lected money for Childline, a hotline In order to increase publicity, the that is part of the Irish Society for the five wore t-shirts with the Childline Prevention of Cruelty for Children. logo and phone number during the 
race. They split the race and than 
Thousands of miles from the Center met at the finish line with a time of for Social Concerns, these five just under four hours. women took the initiative to design the project and to solicit These five students have shown contributions from Irish students as that it takes plenty of creativity, well as American relatives and endurance and teamwork to make a friends. marathon into a charity event. 



Monday, December 10, 1990 The Observer 
page 11 

Saint Mary's basketball falls to Indianapolis for 3d straight loss 
By CHRIS BACON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The difficulties continued as the Saint Mary's basketball team dropped its third game in 
a  row  Saturday  night  at  
Division  II  University  of  
Indianapolis, 94-65.  

The Belles were playing with­out the assistance of two of its players, sophomore Kristen Crowley and senior Linda Garrett. Crowley is out with a back problem and Garrett is out for health reasons. Belles head coach Marv Wood is uncertain when they'll return. 
The team felt the two players' absence as it watched its deficit increase. In the first half, the two teams played evenly. Shooting 39 percent from the field compared to Indianapolis' 42 percent, the Belles trailed 29-25 with three minutes re­maining in the half. But Indianapolis's fast-break over­powered the team as it exe­cuted a 13-2 run. Indianapolis lnd 42-27 at the half. 
"Things were looking good for us," said Wood, " but then they blitzed us." 
In the second half, the blitz continued. Offensively, the Belles committed costly turnovers and were unable to nxecute thnir shots. Indianapolis capitalized on the Bellns' weaknnsses and widnned its lnad. 
"In the sncond half we got bnhind by 27 points. At that point I just dncided to play the bench and give them some playing time," ~aid Wood. "They didn't play bad. but. they are 
For Belles' swim team, success comes vs. Albion 
By CHRIS BACON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Success comes in many forms. 
For the Saint Mary's swimming team, success came at its first dual meet of the season. In Friday night's meet at home. the Belles captured first place in six individual races to defeat Albion .College 13 7-103. starting the season ofT on a winning track for the second season in a row. 
Sophomore Chris Smiggen, a double individual winner in the meet. led the way for the Belles. Smiggen claimed vic­tories in both the 1000-yard freestyle and 100 butterfly. 
Freshman Jennifer Gustafson captured the 100 backstroke and sophomore Bethany Thompson claimed victory in the 500 free, while senior captain Toni Olivieri won the 100 free. 
"I swam well. It was a good race, " said Olivieri, " but, I still need to improve it more." 
Junior All-American diver Carrie Cummins captured first in the 3-meter and second in the 1-meter dives. 
"Albion has really good divers, especially for its (small) size," said Cummins. "I've been working of my 1­meter dive. It has become more consistent; it's really improved." 
Belles head coach Dennis Cooper is pleased with the Belles first performance in the dual season. 
"I thought we swam very well and we had some sur­prise swims from a couple of swimmers." he said. "It's a nice way to start out our dual meet season." 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Water Polo team will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 
8:30 at the team meeting room at the pool. 
Crew members: An extremely important meeting will be held Tuesday, Dec. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Everyone must attend. Anyone who is absent please drop ofT 30 dollars to 359 Alumni. Checkbooks will not be required for the meeting. 
UCLA 
continued from page 16 
secutive points to pull within four at 75-71 with 7:55 left. 
They trailed just 79-75 with 
6:00 left and Ellery at the line attempting a three-point play. He missed the shot, and Jon Ross was called for a question­able offensive goaltending that negated a Notre Dame basket that would have cut the margin to two. 
UCLA then scored seven of the next 10 points to take an 86-78 advantage, but the Irish fought back again to pull within 90-86 with 49 seconds remaining. Darrick Martin and Mitchell Butler hit four straight free throws to put the game out of reach. 
"They gave us a chance," Phelps said. " We just didn't get it done." 
Said UCLA coach Jim Harrick, "I watched all seven Notre Dame games on tape and this is the best they've played by far this year. They answered everything we gave them, but then we answered, too." 
Notre Dame took a 12-11 lead just six minutes into the contest when Bennett hit a jumper from the right baseline, but UCLA answered with nine of the next 14 points to take a 20-17 advantage. 
The Bruins turned that three-point lead into a 27-17 advantage midway through the first half, thanks to the play of guard Shon Tarver. He came ofT the bench to score seven straight points to ignite that run. 
The Bruins controlled the re­mainder of the first half, lead­ing 53-40 at the intermission. Tarver finished the half with 12 points on 5-of-7 shooting. 
NOTES-UCLA is now 6-0, its best start since the 1982-83 season when the Bruins also won their first six games... .This is the first time that Notre Dame has lost six games in a row since 1971-72, Digger Phelps's first year as head coach at Notre Dame....This was just the second Bruin win against the Irish in the past seven games. UCLA leads the all-time series 23-16....Don MacLean has now scored 30 or more points six times in his ca­reer....Ellis had five blocked shots....The Irish will host Southern Cal on Wednesday fn the Joyce ACC. 
smaller in size and Indianapolis has the depth." 
Junior Janet Libbing led the Belles efforts with 12 points and 11 rebounds. Sophomore Julie Snyder tallied eight points and seven rebounds and sophomore Kim Holmes added eight points and six points. Juniors Annie Hartzel and Catherine Restovich had seven and six points, respectively. 
Senior Mea Tetonborn tallied six points, three assists and six rebounds. 
Overall, the Belles shot 34 percent from the field, 73 per­cent from the line and commit­ted 28 turnovers. Indianapolis (6-1) shot 51 percent from the field, 62 percent from the line and committed 22 turnovers. 
Said Wood. :· We were playing a good team. They are well 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET LIMITED AVAILABILITLYII Today is the day I 
MINUTES FROM SB TO HOUSTON. OASIS TICKETS AND TOURS NOTICES FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON LV.12/21, RET. 12/30.$280.272-1-800-229-4493 happens today at 7:00p mo. Summer, Yr. round, All BACCHUS'S Free Party 
Countries. All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 9392 OR 654-7740. at THEODORE'S. Join us TYPING AVAILABLE Corona Del Mar CA 92625 232-3616 for movies, food, and fun 
PERSONALS

287-4082 ORANGE BOWL FLIGHT TICKET IT'S FREEl •••• CINCINNATI HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR. Leaving St. Louis 5:00 Dec. 30, INTERESTED IN PURE, CLEAN 5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE returning from Miami Jan. 3. hi ag ADOPTION: If you are pregnant
I desperately need a ride to DRINKING WATER IN YOUR Cincinnati on the friday of final RATES. 232-1776. Call Patx 233-7328. Asking and can't care for a child right OWN $300 or best offer. WAKEN' BAKEl SPRING BREAK 
week, and will cer1ainly help with now, please consider adoption. ROOM HERE AT NO? FOR INFO 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, JAMAICA/CANCUN FROM $429 We can pay medical expenses 
gas $. Please call Kristen CALL x1758. McDonald at x2927. or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL and help with other needs. We 
washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or SALE FREEl! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE are two NO alumni who can't have $$FOR BOOKS .... CINCINNATI ..... 288-5653 ALL NEW: K-2 SKIS-180 $301 800-426-7710 children and have been happily Used Texts bought and sold NORDICA BOOTS-10 married for 13 years and can offer 
Pandora's Books 233·2342 I need a ride to Philly area 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, BINDINGS, POLES $200.00 ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay a loving home. Please call collect corner or NO ave and Howard or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., 289-4179 on your own private yacht for only 317255-8701.
for x-mas break. Please!!!! Call Kathy x4238 washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or $28.50/ppiday. 288-5653 HEART-SHAPED OPAL RNG Special Air Fares, tool I For sale VW GTI '84 
LOST/FOUND 
W/2 DIA. CHIPS. COST Call Easy Sailing for details 
I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO. for INFO. call 255-2719 
$170-WILL SELL FOR $90. 1 (800)780-4001. Lost: Nikon camera. At Flanner $125w/ util. LISA 259-6841. ALL MEN'S HAl ROUTS $5 OFF. 
12120 AFTER 12:30 OR 12121 Single 2-Room Apt. 
CALL MELISSA x4036. 
Formal. If found please call x 1192 WILL SHARE$ 15 min. walk from Campus MENTION THIS ADD AT and ask for Tom. Camera Bob x3234 marsneedgoat CAMPUS HAIRCRAFTERS SMC contains film with great TICKETS GOOD THRU 12-20-90
Responsible Professional Seeking sentimental value. 
Housesitting Opportunity. Available Jan-Aug '91. Call A quaint studio in lovely old ORANGE BOWL TICKETS FLIGHT FOR SALE NEED RIDE TO /FROM PITI FOR 1 lost a black ·sun Ice" ski Kathleen, 234-0669. mansion 1/2 mile from campus CALL (800) 226-8499 DENVER-SOUTH BEND XMAS $ JOANNE 1275 
jacket with fluorescent blue 225 plus deposit please call TUES. JAN. 15 and red stripes and a blue 2888595 4 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS LOU 2246 M-inner lining. If found please FOR RENT FOR SALE: ROW 15, 25 yard line. STAY OUT OF THE SHOWERS! 
call Phil at x1436. (305) 255-3432. M­
AVOID THE RUSH I UPPERCLASSMAN TO SHARE ORANGE BOWL TIX AVOID THE LINES I MIKE RICHARDSON AND JOHN 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WANTED: FEMALE 
219-291-7153 Help!! Lost my keys! Between VERY NICE FAMILY-OWNED 317-879-8497 PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS KROEPFL GET Cfo41CKS. BLAIR 
Carroll Hall and SOH Tu. nile HOME IN SECURE GREETING CLASSIFIEDS O'CONNOR IS A MAJOR 
ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. 6 keys plus bike key on orange NEIGHBORHOOD. 7 MINS. . ORANGE BOWL TICKETS (4) SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF PEN-ISS.
6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS Nike plastic keychain. Call FROM CAMPUS. $260/MO. FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, 
OR GROUPS. Bryan x4521 for reward UTILITIES INCL. 234-5316 OR TOM (513) 931-7116. LEAVE DEC. 1'4. MICHELLE BERNINGER IS A 
232-1776. 234-7587. MESSAGE. DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE DORK! 
Helpll Lost 6 keys plus bike BEFORE FINALSIII
PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD lock key btwn. Carroll Hall ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD.
STUDENT. UTILITIES, $200/MO. and SOH on Tue. nite. On Nike FOR SALE LINE. (305) 891·058l.
SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON orange chain. Call Bryan at Help I I need a ride to Twin
ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. x4521 for reward I FOR SALE: '85 FORD TOPAZ AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP Cities area leaving 12/21 or
232-8444 noon-6. RED-2 DOOR AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO after. Will help with gas and 
83,000 MILES LONDON, 26 DEC. TO 8 JAN. tolls. Mary X2549 
WANTED 
LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC MORNINGS: 239-7979 PHONE 233-3745. HOME DOWNTOWN. OTHER TIMES: 2991251 Earn $300 tp $500 per week ORANGE BOWL CLASSIC 1991 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, HOT 
AVAIL. JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON-Reading Books at home. Call SMOKERS ONLY. VISTA 6-STEEL STRING NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO SHOTIII 
1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340 ACOUSTIC GUITAR WITH CASE. 3 DAYS/ 2 NIGHTS OF FUf-!AND 
NEAR N.D comfortable. secure NEVER USED. PAID $270, FOOTBALL IN MIAMI. apt: 1 bdrm -$255 ASKING $150. CALL MARY DECEMBER 31-JANUARY 2 IF YOU THOUGHT 20 WAS WANTED: 1 RESPONSIBLE BETH 287-5850. PRIME GAME TICKETS -HOTEL BAD ... 
dep., references 616-483-9572. INDIVIDUAL TO SHARE DRIVING ACCOMMODATIONS. WAIT UNTIL TONIGHT! & GAS TO WASHINGTON, D.C. ONE-WAY TICKET 12/16 SB TO '"NEW YEAR'S EVE KIRSTIN BRAUN IS 211111
CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS AREA. CALL PAM AT 239-RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR NEWARK, NJ. 277-3545 OR 239-CELEBRATION CRUISE"• HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LOVE, CARA, 
6904/6218, MON.-FRI., 8:00A.M.-$599.00 PER PERSON DOUBLE KRISTI, JEN, MICHELLE, 
NEXT YEAR. CALL 272-1441. 7609. 4:30P.M. OCCUPANCY. LOW AIRFARE KRISTIN, JACKIE, LORI, & TAM. 
AND CAR RATES. CALL NOW!! 


~ 
; 

p~ag~e_12________________________~~~neboanj 
Monday, December 10, 1990 

NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS NFL STANDINGS 
NHL STANDINGS 

EASTERN CONFERENCE AME.RICAN CONFERENCE
BASEBALL Suncley'e Gemee
WALES CONFERENCE

AUentlc Dlvlelon Eeet
Amerlcen League Buffalo 31, Indianapolis 7 
Petrick Dlvlelon

w L Pet. GB KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms w L T Pet. PF PA Houston 58, Cleveland 14 Boston 15 4 .789 with Andy McGafflgan, pitcher, on a one-year w ,L T Pte GF GA y-Buffalo , 2 0 .846 373 207 New York Giants 23, Minnesota 15
NY Ranger~~ 17 5 39 124

Philadelphia 13 6 .684 2 contract wnh Omaha ol the American Association. 99 y-Miaml 10 3 0 .769 275 184 Pittsburgh 24, New England 3
, Philadelphia 17 13 2 36
New Jer~~ey 7 .389 7 11'2 National League 113 104 Indianapolis 5 8 0 .385 200 281 Phoenix 24, Atlanta 13
, New Jersey 16 , 4 122
New York 7 .389 7 11'2 CINCINNATI REDS-Announced they would 36 104 N.Y. Jets 4 9 0 .308 216 295 San Francisco 20, Cincinnati 17, OT
Washington 17 15 0 34 108

Washington 6 13 .3t6 9 not offer arbnratlon to Rick Mahler, pitcher, and Ron 99 New England 1 12 0 .077 154 366
Pittsburgh 12 15 3 27 119 117 Seattle 20, Green Bay 14Miami 5 12 .294 9 Centre!
Oester, second baseman. NY Islanders 9 17 2 20 75 106 Washington 10, Chicago 9 
Centre! Dlvlelon Cincinnati 7 6 0 .538
Ademe Dlvlelon 292 294 Kansas City 31, Denver 20 
Detron 14 6 .700 Houston 7 6 0 .538 324 243
Boston 16 10 4 36 97 New Orleans 24, Los Angeles Rams 20
Milwaukee 14 6 .700 97 Pittsburgh 7 6
Montreal 16 13 3 35 104 0 .538 234 200 Miami 23, Philadelphia 20, OT
99

Chicago 12 7 .632 1 11'2 Cleveland 2 11 0 .154 201 396
Hartford 13 13 4 30 OPEN DATES: Dallas, New York Jets, San Cleveland 10 10 .500 4 88 94 West Diego, Tampa Bay 
Buffalo 10 12 7 27

Charlotte 8 10 .444 5 FOOTBALL 89 91 Kansas cny 9 4 0 .692 314 199 Indiana 8 12 Netlonel Footbill Leegue . 87 135 LA Raiders 8
Quebec 6 19 6 18

.400 6 4 0 .667 230 194 Moncley'e Game 
Atlanta 7 , .389 6 DETROIT LIONS-Activated Toby Caston, Seattle 7 6 0 .538 242 240 Los Angeles Raiders at Detroit, 9 p.m. 
linebacker; Bruce Alexander, cornerback; and CAMPBELL CONFERENCE San Diego 6 7 0 .462 272 220 WESTERN CONFERENCE Roben Claiborne, wide receiver, from Injured Denver 3 10 0 .231 277' 334
Norrie Dlvieion Seturdey, Dec. 15Midweet Dlvlelon reserve. Placed Bruce McNorton, cornerback, on w L T Pte GF GA Chicago 20 9 Buffalo at New York GianiS, 12:30 p.m

w L Pet. GB Injured reserve. Waived Rich Karlls, kicker, and 2 42 103 74 NATIONAL CONFERENCE
St. Louis 17 9 Washington at New England, 4 p.m. 
San Antonio 10 5 .667 Jimmy Williams, linebacker. 3 37 100 80 Eeat
Detron 13 13 4 30 108 113Ulah ,12 7 .632 Minnesota 9 16 w L T Pet. PF PA Suncley, Dec. 16
Houston 8 .579 1 6 24 88 101 X-N.Y. GlaniS , 2 0 .84~ 285 163
Toronto Atlanta at Cleveland, 1 p.m
Dallas 6 11 .353 5 7 24 1 15 84 139 Washington 6 5 0 .615 299 242 Houston at Kansas City, 1 p.m. 
Minnesota 6. 12 .333 5 11'2 Philadelphia 7 6 0 .538 325 275
Smythe Divieion Indianapolis at New York Jets, 1 p.m. 
Orlando 5 15 .250 7 11'2 HOCKEY Dallas 6 7 0 .462 193 255
Los Angeles 16 Minnesota at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. 
Denver 4 Netlonel Hockey League 7 5 37 117 89 Phoenix
15 .211 8 5 6 0 .385 206 308
Calgary Phoenix at Dallas, 1 p.m. . Ponland 18 1 .947 forward, to Springfield of the American Hockey 13 3 31 93 101 x-Chlcago 10 3 0 .769 290 207 Pacific Dlvlelon HARTFORD WHALERS-Sent Mark Greig, 16 10 4 36 126 97 Central
Vancouver 14 Pittsburgh at New Orleans, 1 p.m. , Edmonton Seattle at Miami, 1 p.m. 
LA Laker~~ 6 .647 6 League. 11 14 2 24 84 81 Green Bay 6 7 0 .462 241 270 Golden State LOS ANGELES KINGS-Extended the 17 6 24 105 116 Minnesota
Winnipeg 9 Green Bay at Philadelphia, 4 p.m. 
12 7 .632 6 6 7 0 .462 297 252 
Clndnnatl al Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. LA Clippers three years. Detron Phoenix 10 7 .588 7 contract ol Rogle Vachon, general manager, lor Tampa Bay 5 8 0 .385 210 311 San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m. 
9 9 .500 8 11'2 Suncley'a Gemee 4 8 0 .333 270 307 Chicago at Detroh, 8 p.m
Seattle &et Coeet Hockey Leegue Weet
5 12 .294 12 Lete Gemee Not Included 
Sacramento NASHVILLE KNIGHTS-Waived John Valo, x-San Fran
3 14 .176 14 Boston 3, Buffalo 2 12 1 0 .923 297 199 Moncley, Dec. 17delenseman. Activated Dennis Miller, delenseman, Calgary at Edmonton, late New Orleans 6 7 0 .462 235 239 San Francisco at Los Angeles Rams, 9 p.m. 
Suncley'e Gemee from the suspended list and traded his rights to the LA Rams 5
Philadelphia at Chicago, late 8 0 .385 305 346
Milwaukee 105, Seattle 99 Louisville Ice Hawks. Atlanta 3 10 0 .231 292 332LA Laker~~ 106, Washington 99 
Loss 
Continued from page 16 
remaining, but scored nine straight points to cut the lead to four. They also trailed 86-78 and UCLA had the ball with just over four minutes left, but scored eight of the next 12 points to make it another four-point game. 

That Notre Dame didn't give up might say a little bit more than meets the eye. This isn't a team that is ready to call it quits just because of some early-season adversity. There are too many games against too many big teams. 
"We're a close, tight-knit group," said Elmer Bennett, who scored 19 points. "We're not going to give up on each other. If everybody else gives up on you. you need each other. That was our sixth loss in a row, but we played great. We were at a top-10 school on their home court. We'll learn a lot from this. We're getting closer to where we can be as a team." 
Said Irish forward LaPhonso Ellis, "It snowed we have a lot of guts. When it seems like we're out of a game, we can make a lot of things happen." 

The key for Notre Dame now is to keep playing great in its next three games, all home games against USC. Portland and Valparaiso. Those are also games that the Irish need to win, tf only to learn how to win. 
Ellis was standing a few lock­ers down from Bennett. Ellis reflected for awhile on what was his best inside game so far this season, but he quickly turned to the thought that was in the back of everyone's mind. 
"We're still searching for that 'W,"' he said. "We just have to go out and play non-top 25 teams like we play do top 25 teams." 
The Irish will get that chance on Wednesday with USC. 

McCann. "He just needed to as having been named All·Big week. The kid he beat was jumped ahead again, as Greg 
keep his composure more at the Eight last year, took a 3-1 lead good-he lost in overtime to the Warren, ranked twelfth in the 
end." into the third period before 150-pound winner at Las nation, grappled his way to a 5­Continued from page 16 Jamie Boyd, wrestling at 142 fa.lling to the talented Boyd. Vegas." In fact, Layton led 1 decision over Emil Soehnlen however, was not displeased pounds, started the Irish come-"Boyd had a good win for a throughout the match, as he of Notre Dame. with Ahern's effort. back, as he decisioned Chip guy who hasn't wrestled much came away with a 4-2 decision The Irish, however, won the 
~Mike Ahern is a walk-on for Bunner. Bunner, who had this year," said McCann. "Todd over Dan Dunkin. next three matches, sealing the us at 134 pounds, but 1 though reached the quarterfinals of the Layton also did a good job after Layton's victory tied the meet 22-15 victory with Steve King's that he held his own," noted Las Vegas Invitational,. as well having a rough outing last 9-9, but the Tigers quickly pin of Doug Dunley. 
Mizzou 

i~~~~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;..-.~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1 l Great ift·Idea :r t 
1 f
1 ' f 
1 f
1 f
i f
1 1991 Gift f i , Calendars f I f 
i f 
i f
ij Hammes N 9tre Dame Bookstore ff 
i 2nd Floor f
1 -· r 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4:!i(~~~~~~~~~~~-b{~~~~~ 
Monday, December 10, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Men's swimming defeats Bowling Green, women fall 
Tanya Williams continued to shine for the Irish, setting two university records in the 100 and 200 backstrokes with win­ning times-58.43 and 2:05.78. Williams also won the 200 indi­vidual medley~ 
Jenny KipP.r.took firsts in 1­meter and 3-meter diving while Alicia Feehery won the 50 and 100 freestyles. Distance swim­mers Karen Keeley and Susan Bohdan placed first and second, respectively, in the 1000 free. 
Welsh emphasized the success and growth of the women's team, which climaxed this fall by winning the National Catholic Championships last week. The Irish will train for a month before their nexrmeet, The New Year's Classic in Boca Raton, Fla. Welsh says he's ex­cited to train and feels there is still something left to be done. The Irish will be looking for their second consecutive Eastern Collegiate Championships title. 
rebounds, and l thought that 
was key." 
"People don't look at me as a 
rebounder," llaysbert said, "but 
I knew we had to do extra. We 
had to go out there and play 
harder to win these games. 
We'd had these three losses, 
and we needed this win ~o build 
our confidence back up." 
After averaging almost six points a game through the Stanford game, sophomore point guard Coquese ·Washington has scored only four points in the past two con­tests. Washington, however, is not worrying about her offen­
sive production. 
"The other four starters are 
very good scorers, and I don't 
need to score points for us to 
win," said Washington. "It's my 
job to get them the ball, and 
that's what I'm concentrating 
on." · 
The Irish bench was not mueh 
of a factor in this game, scoring 
only two points. MeGraw 
attributes this to typieal up­
and-down freshmen play. 
They're just freshmen coming 
in off the bench," McGraw said. 
"so I know they're going to play 
a lot better. They've been doing 
a great job for us all along ... 
it's just a matter of them getting 
into the flow of the game and 
getting a little more time." 
For Syracuse, Kenneally and 
sophomore eenter Holly 
Oslander had 18 points apiece. 
Oslander, the Orangewomen's 
best player, was double-and 
triple-teamed most of the game, 
and had a hand in her face on 
almost every shot. 
The Irish took control of the 
game in the first half. grabbing 
a 38-28 halftime lead on the 
strength of Haysbert's 20 points 
and a press that took Syracuse 
out of its rhythm and forced 16 
first-half turnovers. 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
Thn Notre Dame men's swim team capped its fall season Saturday at Holfs aquatic Center, defeating Bowling Green 139.5-95.5. The Irish men looked remarkably fresh only a week after three intense days of National Catholic Championships competition. 
"Our men were able to re­bound from the NCC meet by exeeptional depth," said !lead Coaeh Tim Welsh. "The fresh­men who couldn't swim in the NCC meet, due to squad size limits, earried the day." 
Freshmen Bruce Emery, Tom Byorick, Kevin Flanagan and Brian Casey added to the total team depth and team balance that led to a relaxed second half of the meet. In the 50 and 200 frcestyles the Irish elaimed plaens one, two and three to in­crease their lead by over 30 points after the fourth event. 
Emery won the 200 individual medley and the 200 breast­stroke, while Sean Hyer also recorded double wins in the 1­meter and 3-meter diving. Sophomore Tom Whoell set a university record in the tOO­backstroke leg of the 400-yard medley relay. Colin Cooley, Ed Broderick, and Dave Nathe also swam on the winning relay. 
Nathe plaeed first in both the 50 freestyle and the 500 free-an impressive time of 
4:39.50 in an event he tlid not swim at the NCC meet last week. Jim Birmingham won the 200 free in 1 :43.04 
"The Bowling Green men are still rebuilding and although their freshmen swam very well, the team as a whole doesn't have the team depth ·the women's team has," said Welsh. "Our men demonstrated outstanding balance." · 
The Irish men came close to several NCAA cuts this fall and 


Tom Whowell 
Welsh said he looks forward to a great remainder of the sea­son. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team suffered its first loss on Saturday against Bowling Green, 143-157. 
The Irish rebounded from early deficits of two to 15 points to take the lead in the middle of the meet by as many as 14 points. Despite winning nine of 16 meet events the Irish were unable to win a relay and score the winning points. 

The Irish needed a first and third in either relay to win the meet or a first in a relay to tie the meet. Bowling Green cap­tured firsts and thirds in both the 400-yard medley relay and the 400-freestyle relay, an indi­cation of strong team depth. 
''I'm very satisfied with ho'w well the women came back after three intense and emo­tional days of competition last week in the National Catholic Championships;" said Welsh. "We knew ahead that Bowling Green had depth. We weren't able to overcome their depth." 
"We moved Tanya out of her normal butterfly events to backstroke to challenge Bowling Green's lead backstro­ker. It worked well but we couldn't overcome their depth," said Welsh. 
boards. "She (Haysbert) played great," 
Orange 

Irish head coach Muffet 
Continued from page 16 McGraw said. "She looked like an All-American out there, and
injury was minor, however, and she's capable of doing that ev­Davis was confident she would ery game. She's got a lot of tal­be able to play Thursday night ent, and she works hard.

against Texas Christian. 

"She rebounded very well;
For the Irish, Haysbert had a that's where she got a lot of her

points. Normally, she's getting
pulled down nine rebounds. 

them in transition, but tonightRobinson added 17 and Nowlin she got them off the offensive
scored 15 points and seven 

13ountiju{13askf,ts !Finals are :J{ere! · ' 
r.Bas/(?t Inc[udes: 2 cfozen fwmemade cookies, 4 frnits, 2 farge muffins, 2 pkgs. cr@l. & Cfuese, 3 pkgs. cfuese6aifs, 6 oz, ea. California l)v(q_ & Snac/(?ms, 2 pkgs. gum, 1 cfwcofate record 
• caa_Micfi<ysmitft 
$l9.00 

..,.. ·1-800-773-9'j16 
I 

Local272-9776 
Yeah! I know I'll be a B.A. someday! 
Happ~ Belated Birthda~ Courtn~ Swift! 
' (?{sJ more cussing & smo/(jng in tfie street!) 
THE ~AIL sTUDio 
PARENTS 
WITH 

DAUGHTERS IN SPORT 

DICK ROSENTHAL:  ATHLETICDIRECTOR  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
PAT UTZ:  DIRECIOR  
UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER  
RICH O'LEARY:  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR  
NON· VARSITY ATHLETICS  

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1990 7:00PM 
JOYCE ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER ENTER GATES 1 & 2 FREE OF CHARGE 
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME YEAR OF WOMEN AND THE DEPARTMENT OF NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Stacey 

Regular $55 Student Discount $15 off Now $40 for Full Set of Solar 
Sculptured Nails 
1!3nail technicians, who will pamper you with personalized, quality service. When you're ready for a change to a more natural looking nails call on The Castle. We're in the spotlight, for performance, precision and elegance. 
Manicures by Jessica Whirlpool Pedicures 
The Castle 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Just 5 minutes from campus 

page 14 The Observer Monday, December 10, 1990 
Hockey splits with Foresters in home-and-home set 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
Mter Division III power Lake Forest College snapped the Notre Dame hock~ team's six game winning stKtJak Friday night by a 3-2 score on its home ice, the Irish returned to the friendly confines of the Joyce ACC Saturday and cruised to a 6-0 win, gaining a split with the Foresters for the home-and­home series. 
At Lake Forest on Friday, the Irish jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead, as junior Pat Arendt scored at the 4:21 mark of the opening period on an assist from • defenseman Rob Copeland. Despite outshooting the Foresters 18-3 in the open­ing period, the Irish could get only one shot past goalie Dan Vacco. 
"He won the game for them," said Schafer. "We outshot them about two to one for the game, so it wasn't poor playing on our part, but rather a great effort by their goalie." 
Both teams were held score­less until Notre Dame sopho­more Dan Sawyer scored his third goal of the season, putting the Irish on top 2-0 four and half minutes into the second period. , 
The scoring ended there for the Irish, now 1-5-1 in away games. 
Lake Forest retaliated with two goals of its own in the sec­ond period, tying the game at two only minutes after the Irish had established a 2-0 lead. 
"Things just really weren't happening for us," said junior left wing Mike Curry. "They're always ready to play us and they came out and played a great game." 

In the midst of an eight-game win streak, the Foresters bene­fitted from yet another standout performance by Vacco. 
"He (Vacco) came up really big in the third period," said Irish left wing Lou Zadra. "He had some outstanding saves." 
The Foresters evened the series at 8-8 in games played at Lake Forest when Rob Ventura knocked in the game-winner with nine minutes left. 
Saturday brought a com­pletely different look for the Irish, however, as Zadra scored two power play· goals en route to a 6-0 win, improving the Irish to 8-6-1 heading iil.to a holiday roadtrip against such powerhouses as New Hampshire and Boston College. 
Zadra, who leads the Irish with ten goals, scored the first of three first period goals for the Irish at the 5:33 mark of the opening stanza, taking a rifling pass from center Dave Bankoske. Only 45 seconds later, sophomore Sterling Black tipped in a pass from freshman Matt Osiecki to put the Irish ahead 2-0. 
"We seemed to be a little slow in Friday's game, so we wanted to go out and show everyone that we're capable of beating them," said Osiecki. 
Sophomore Dan Sawyer nabbed his third goal of the season on 5-on-3 power play goal. Taking a pass from center Curtis Janicke, Sawyer blasted a slapshot past Vacco with 7:17 remaining in the first period. 
The Irish continued to take advantage of power play op­portunities in the second pe­riod, as Zadra scored on a power play goal off another as­sist from Bankoske, who leads the Irish with 11. 
"We had been working on the ­power play all week in practice, and Bankoske hit me with two great passes," said Zadra, who had two goals against Lake Forest last season. "It was good to see some results." 
Left wing Chris Olson scored his second goal of the season on an assist from Janicke at the 
3:42 mark of the second period. Junior Mike Curry put the finishing touches on the Irish win with a third-period goal, his ninth of the season. 
"We knew we were the better team and we came out on Saturday and showed it," said Curry. 
The Irish were also a more penalty-stricken team Saturday, with 15 calls going against them. Osiecki, who spent eight minutes in the box on four penalties, wasn't too thrilled about some of the calls. 

"They called some pretty The Observer 1Scott McCann cheap stuff," said Osiecki. "It's The Notre Dame hockey team is 1-5-1 in games away from home. not my role to be the goon of -------------------------....,


the team, so I wasn't out there trying to be more physical than I normally would be." 
"Luckily they didn't do to well on the power play," said Curry. "Having that many penalties could be costly against some of the better teams we'll be play­ing." 
The "better teams" are up next for the Irish, with games at Princeton, Army, New Hampshire, and Boston College over Christmas break. 
"Princeton and Army promise to be on the sante level of play with us, but we'lL be playing two of the best hockey teams in the nation in New Hampshire and Boston College," said Schafer. 

Jl.{i, 
9-'"ou were destined forfJ\{/D.! 
Happy 21st! 
Love, 
MomUDad 
. 

1991 ICEBERG DEBATES SIGN UP DEADLINE: DEC. ] 1 

• 
' 

Contact your Hall Presidents or Academic Commissioners for details 
Sponsored by Student Government 


Monday, December10, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Monday 
12:15 p.m. Brown Bag Colloquia, "Women and Development," Ann Clark. department of Philosophy, Saint Mary's. Room 303 Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Women's Studies at Saint Mary's 
College. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Noodle Soup Hoast Pork Loin w/Apples Meatless Bak11d Ziti Egg Holls Whipped Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 
Hoast Turkey w/Dressing Be11fStew Cheese Souffie Deli Bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
/I.~C:inlt.R 5\.\0W El(iOLUN.G l<:>'fe: (>..N.\) Pl:~c£ \N.IE~Q.uVTE.D E'JER.'i St.~£1'1 t-\11'-1\JTIO.S B'{ CC\-\t-\ER<:.\11-.\.S E'l<IOU..IN.G 
G~\) ~N.I) ~f>..~. 
I 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

1-\f>,~£ MUG~ FILM L£H, 9J STDP MM<.INE7 FACt:S Wl-l£N l TAKf. Tilt PICi\lR.E., OR '<CUR. N/l.t-I.E.'5 
ACROSS 
1 Health resorts 5 Choir voice 9 Meara or 
Bancroft 13 Eight furlongs 

.. 14 Healthy 16 Water fowl 17 And others: 
Abbr. 18 Bill of fare 19 Pitch 20 TV game show 23 Whale: Comb. 
form 24 Bikini part 25 Highways 28 Regional 
language 
32 Competent 33 Preface 35 Jackie's second 
mate 
36 TV soap opera 
40 Guido's high 
note 41 Revoke, as a legacy 42 Field of granular 
snow 
43 Repudiate 
45 Pair of jacks, 
e.g. 
47 Jujube 
481.npair 
49 TV mystery 
show 57 Actress Turner 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Ward off 59 Jejune eo Sour 61 Kind of drum &2 Hawaiian goose 63 Fountain or 
Rozelle &4 Jogging gait 65 Despot 
DOWN 

1 Hooded merganser 2Core 3 Wings for Am or 4 Chosen one 5 Broad neck scarves 6 Lounge about 7Sod a Aware of skulduggery 9 Real 10 Midday 11 Not one 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

=+::-+-=-+':-i 21 CiviI War general 
~:=-+::-::+.=:-! 22 Vagrant 7:+::-t:::±+::-t 25 Stormed -:::+=+.::+.::+=-+=-i 26 Ed ito rial marks on old 
manuscripts 27 Armbones 28 Ruin 29Consumed 
33 Beaver skin, in Western lingo 34 Unit of fluidity 37 Talked irrationally 38 Worshipers 39 Free from mistakes 44Chafe 
SPELUNKER 

'fOO COOL\)''I't:. B£t.N \)()\11£. 
CLICK

ZO MINUi£S A.f:l:) It '{OJ'\) .)US\ COOP'E.RAit.D. ~OW G\IJt. Mt. t>. St'\IL£. AND 1-\0LP 


. ! 
• 

45 Brunch order 53 Poor boy's 
46 Handle clumsily cousin 54 Mine finds 
49A spice 
55 Singer Turner 

50 Monad 
56 River in 51 Lease Germany 
52 Box 57 Track circuit 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 




CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

Sports
page 16 Monday, December10, 1990 
Notre Dame limps to defeat against UCLA at Pauley 
Despite solid play, 2-6 Irish are put to rest by 6-0 Bruins 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 

LOS ANGELES-When Notre Dame 'limped into Pauley Pavilion Saturday fo face eighth-ranked UCLA with a five-game losing stre~k and minus its senior captain, most people expected a scene like the 91-61 loss to Arizona in the semifinals of the Dodge NIT. 
But the Irish, who have gen­erally played well against tough UCLA teams, put together one of their best efforts of the sea­son before falling to the Bruins 99-91. UCLA improved to 6-0, while Notre Dame dropped to 2-6. 
"A lot of people didn't think we would hang tough for 40 minutes," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "I was very proud of what we did. We played extremely well against UCLA." 
The Irish played for the sec­ond consecutive game without senior point guard Tim Singleton, who will miss up to six weeks after injuring his back against Kentucky in the Big Four Classic Dec. 1. They had already lOBt starting for­ward Monty Williams to a heart problem before the season started. 
But they still played well enough to have a shot at upsetting the undefeated Bruins. Notre Dame committed a season-low 14 turnovers and shot 57 percent from the field in turning its game up a notch. 
"The only thing I can say is that we played a heck of a game," said Irish forward LaPhonso Ellis. "We went out and put a lot of things to­gether." 
Ellis led a balanced Notre Dame effort, scoring 21 points on 9-of-10 shooting. Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett and Kevin Ellery had 19 points each. Don Maclean led UCLA with 30 points, while Tracy Murray chipped in 18. 
Notre Dame had its chances in the second half. The Irish trailed 75-62 with 10:36 re­maining but scored nine con-
See UCLA, page 11 

Here it is: Irish did well by fighting back against UCLA 
LOS ANGELES-Here was 
earlier in the week and was Notre Dame, owner of a five­playing without senior captain game losing streak, playing · Tim Singleton? Just a four-point 
without two players who were expected to start in the presea­son, waiting for some new sol­diers to join its depleted army. 
And here was UCLA, owners of an unblemished 5-0 record Greg Guffey and number-eight ranking, Sports Editor playing in storied Pauley Pavilion, waiting for the ghosts Digger Phelps. of John Wooden, Lew Alcindor But it didn't quite turn out 
and Bill Walton to help hoist according to script. The Irish some new banners. came in with a message to de­liver and succeeded, even You half expected to see an though the final verdict was 99­
ambulance outside the arena to 91 in UCLA's favor. 
help clear the Irish bodies after this massacre. Custer probably An eight-point margin for the had a better chance of getting highly-touted Bruins against a margin at 90-86 with only 49 seconds remaining? Shouldn't it have been about 40 points by that time? 
"We proved to a lot of people what we can do," said Irish guard Brooks Boyer, who scored eight points in replacing Singleton. "We'll win some games. It's just a matter of time." 
There were several points in the second half when no one could have blamed the Irish if they had thrown in the towel. 
They trailed 75-62 with 10:36 
see LOSS I page 12

team that lost b 14 at Butlerout alive han Irish coach 
Irish stop Orangewoman rally 
Women's basketball team gets key 71-66 home win 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team snapped its three-game losing streak, withstanding a late Syracuse charge to defeat the Orangewomen 71-66 Saturday afternoon in the Joyce ACC. 
After Margaret Nowlin's short jumper pushed the Irish lead to 10, Syracuse quickly went on a 9-2 run-capped by Erin Kenneally's steal and layup-to cut the margin to 61-58 with 5:39 left. 
The Irish rose to the chal­lenge. Senior All-American candidate Ka.ren Robinson buried an 18-footer from the top of the key, and then Notre Dame forced a 30-second violation by the Orangewomen. 
Syracuse cut the lead back to four, but Robinson made two free throws. After an Orangewoman free throw, Robinson hit another jumper from the right baseline, and a minute later, Comalita Haysbert's nine-footer built the lead back to nine, 71-62, with 59 seconds remaining. 
Notre Dame got a scare with 
8:37 left in the first half when Krissi Davis had to leave the game with a knee injury. The 
see ORANGE I page 13 


The Observer I Scott McCann LaPhonso Ellis scored 21 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in Notre Dame's loss to UCLA Saturday. The Irish, 2-6, are without leader Tim Singleton, who is out for at least six weeks with a back injury. 
Wrestlers shoot down Redbirds, cage Tigers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame wrestling team opened its dual meet sea­son in impressive style this weekend. shooting down the Redbirds of Illinois State and caging the Missouri Tigers 22­15. 
The Irish took to the road Friday afternoon for their match with Illinois State, the first dual meet of the season for both teams. Notre Dame won the first two matches against the Redbirds en route to their victory.. 
On the day, Chris Jensen (118), Marcus Gowens (126), Mike Ahern (134), Jamie Boyd (142), Mark Gerardi (167), J.J.. McGrew and Chuck Weaver registered winning decisions. Steve King (190) battled Redbird Steve Hughes to a draw, while Todd Layton and Emil Soehnlen each suffered defeats. 
Notre Dame returned home to face the Missouri Tigers Sunday. Against the nascent Big Eight power, the Irish won six of the 10 matches. Steve King notched the quickest victory of the day as he took only thirty­five seconds to pin Doug Dunley. King's stunning win burst open a previously close match, as Notre Dame surged out to a 22-12 lead with one match remaining. 
"I knew that it would be tight," remarked Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann. "We won the close matches-we knew that we'd have to do that to win today. I'm very happy. We have five first-year kids and we can expect that every meet will be like this. We need a total team effort because we don't have lots of experience. The ex­perienced guys must get the big points for us. Missouri felt that they could beat us, and right­fully so. They were beating us early, but we came back." 
Missouri jumped out to an early 3-0 lead, as Sam Henson, ranked sixth in the nation, won a 9-3 decision over Irish fresh­man Chris Jensen at 118 pounds. "I'm pleased with the way Chris Jensen performed," said McCann. "The kid from Missouri was a redshirt fresh­man." 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, quickly tied up the meet, as ju­nior Marcus Gowens opened up a scoreless match, outscoring Eric DeVenney 3-1 in the third period. 
Yet in the 134 pound match, the Tigers seemed to seize the edge, as Kenny Liddell, already leading Mike Ahern of Notre Dame, registered a pin of Ahern. Coach McCann, 
see MlZZOU/page 12 





