
~~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
In light of the recent potential for political, economic, and le­gal reform in Cuba, the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) has orga­nized a symposium to be held at the Notre Dame Law School Nov. t-:{ to discuss that coun­try's present and future status. 
The symposium, "Constitutionalism in Cuba: Its Prncedent, llistory, and Hecommendations for the Future." will feature addresses by many prominent figures in the Cuban-American commu­nity, including Xavier Suarez, mayor of Miami, and Rolando Bonachea, the director of Radio Marti. 
lleribnrto Lopez Alberola, the presid1mt of CAUSA, said that the symposium is an attempt to start anticipating the challenges Cuba will face as it emerges from its present political syst11m. 
Lop11z Alberola said he be­lieves ehanges are inevitable in Cuba because of the dire condi­tion of the economy and the strong likelihood that the Soviet Union will discontinue all subsidies to a nation that is be­
coming "diametrically op­
posed" to it in economic theory. 
Citizens in Cuba are aware of 
CAUSA. and the symposium will 
be broadcast live over Radio 
Marti, he said. 
The symposium will begin with a reception Thursday evening at the Morris Inn. The addresses, which begin on Friday, will be highlighted by Suarez and Luis Aguilar, a pro­fessor of government at Georgetown, who will discuss his book, "Reflections on the Future of Cuba." 
Saturday's addresses will in­clude "The Restoration of Justice in Cuba" by Luis Figueroa, a former professor of Homan law at the Havana Law School. The symposium will conclude with a celebration liturgy by Bishop Augustine Roman from the Archdiocese of Miami. 
Roman is famous for negoti­ating the release of hostages during the Atlanta prison riots in 1987, and according to Lopez Alberola, is considered "the religious leader of Cuban people in exile." 
All lectures will be held in the courtroom on the second floor of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Saddam expects attack from U.S. in near future 
(AP) -Saddam Hussein said Tuesday that Iraq was making final preparations for war and expected an attack within days by the United States and its al­lies. A U.S. senator said President Bush's "patience is wearing thin." 
In the Persian Gulf, 10 American sailors died when a steam pipe ruptured in the boiler room of the USS Iwo Jima. And in Saudi Arabia, a Marine was killed in an acci­dent while driving in the desert. 
· Bush discussed possible mili­tary action against Iraq in a meeting with congressional leaders on the gulf crisis. but he told them he could not guar­antee he would consult them before embarking on hostilities. He refused to comment publicly on a report the United States plans to discuss a timetable with U.S. allies for a military offensive. 
Secretary of State James Baker on Saturday will begin a weeklong visit to Arab and European countries to consult on future steps in the gulf, offi­cials said. The visit will include a meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. 
Asked about the potential for a U.S. military strike, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said: "As these things unfold. of course, there are always scenarios for action that have to be considered ... but there is no timetable for ac­tion." 
Fitzwater sought to dampen fears that fighting was immi­nent. "The attitude at the meeting was play it down -be calm." he said. 
The United States has more than 200,000 troops in the gulf region and has announced plans to send at least 100,000 more. It is the largest U.S. mili­tary deployment since the Vietnam War. 
Saddam summoned his mili­tary commanders to a meeting in Baghdad to complete "preparations for urban war­fare and necessary measures to 
see GULF I page 6 
McCormick: Church should offer support to individuals deciding to be homosexual 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
While the moral statement of the Church maintains that ho­mosexuality is non-normative, the pastoral policy of the Church should be one that both respects an individual's judg­ment before God to be homo­sexual and supports an individ­ual who has made that judg­ment. according to Richard McCormick, S.J. 
McCormick, the John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics, began Tuesday's lecture. "Perspectives on Homosexuality and the Church," by saying, "We're really grasping for a pastoral position in answer to this question -how should the church respond to the homosexual individual and the homosexual community." 
McCormick's own recommen­dation for pastoral policy in­cludes the following six state­ments from his book "The Crit­ical Calling: Reflections on Moral Dilemmas Since Vatican II": 
•The power of sin in the world affects the behavior of individuals. 
•Christ is the "liberator 
supreme" and He gives us the capacity to love after his exam­ple. 
•Christ's 
followers are a con­tinuation of his presence and must change the social struc­tures to expand the capacity for individuals to love. 

•The 
power of sin often re­veals itself in sex. 

•It 
has been, and remains, the Church's conviction that the sexual expression of love offers the best opportunity for growth in male/female relationships. 

•However, 
if an individual is irreversably homosexual and is not called to "celibacy for the kingdom," sexual expression can take another, homosexual form. The decision to be homo­sexual is one made by an indi­vidual before God; the church should respect and support the judgment, rather than condemn it. 


The very term "homosexuality" poses the ·first obstacle to developing such a pastoral position, according to McCormick. He said, "There is no such thing as homosexuality. There are only homosexual individuals, more or less." 
Abstractions such as homo­sexuality often lead to stereo­typing because there is a reduc­tion of the whole person to the "private parts," according to McCormick. 
"When we say that gay is good, we are implying that it is good precisely because it is gay," said McCormick, who also applied the same objection to saying that heterosexuality is good precisely because it is heterosexuality. 
Other problematic ambigui­ties in the term homosexuality, according to McCormick, in­clude the homosexual individ­ual's "ranking" on the Kinsey scale, whether the individual is engaged in overt acts or has psychic inclinations, whether the person accepts the homo­sexual condition or is trying to change or control it, and whether the individual is en­gaged in casual contacts or has enduring relationships. 
The term "morality" presents a second obstacle to presenting a pastoral position, according to McCormick. 
McCormick distinguished two different aspects of morality ­
see CHURCH/ page 6 

AP P1101D
Happy to be home 
An unidentified French citizen flashes the "V" sign upon his arrival at Roissy Airport in France Tuesday. He was among hundreds of hostages released after three months under Saddam Hussein's control. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Make the most of your time at Notre Dame 
Sitting on a flimsy folding chair on the lawn of an alumnus of Notre Dame, I looked around at all the contrived faces of soon-to-be Notre Dame students, as they looked around in Scott Brutocao 

apparent wonder about why they came Asst. Sports Editor 
to a cookout for high school students that had been accepted to our university. 
It was four years ago, and I was among the wonderers. My fellow high school se­niors made artificial conversation, said how excited they were to be there, and how the food was so pleasant. 
I got out of my flimsy chair and walked over to where a couple of Notre Dame se­niors were standing idly with their hands in their pockets. 
"Excuse me, but how much sleep do you get at Notre Dame?" I asked, thinking it would be a scandalously insufficient amount. "Five or six hours?" 
"Oh, usually seven," said one senior. 
Great, I thought. That was worrying me. 
"How about workload?" I asked, not bothering to consider that it might differ from major to major. "Six hours a day, about?" 
"Oh, no," he said. "Usually two or three, but sometimes you have to do more." 
Full of smug contentment to have my hopelessly general questions answered, I turned away to get more pleasant food. 
"Hey, one more thing," the senior said. "Don't go home for breaks. Go out and do something during your free weeks." 
Don't go home for breaks? What was this he was saying? Notre Dame was 2,000 miles from home, and I was going to be ready to be home for a week during midsemester breaks. What an unapprecia­tive, family-hating, brutish pagan I was talking to. 
"Excuse me," I said. "I've got to get a hamburger." 
I stormed off, at least in mind, not realiz­ing that four years later I would find him to be completely right. 
Of course, he used the wrong tactic to tell a freshman to spend free time wisely. "Don't go home for breaks," masks a posi­tive sentiment by negative wording. 
He meant that there are many opportuni­ties for making the most out of time at Notre Dame during breaks, ranging from service in Appalachia to debauchery in South Padre. Time spent away from the usual grind at Notre Dame is a great way to realize the complete college experience. 
If you have no particular place to go, stay at Notre Dame once and see the real city, without 7,600 undergraduates flooding the streets. 
There are always some students who stay in the dorms, so it won't be a terribly exis­tential experience. And you just might gain a perspective about Notre Dame, a place where it is all too easy to get caught up in the immediate routine. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  
Ad Design  Scoreboard  
News  Kelly McHugh  Rene Ferran  
Carolyn Amann  Cara Eckman  
Paul Pearson  Kerry Clair  Systems  
Mike Owens  Maria Blohm  Marl< Sloan  
Mario Siguenza  Mike Murphy  
Accent  Jean-Philipe Thole  
Paige A. Smoron  Graphics  
John Fischer  Sports  Michael Muldoon  
Melissa Cusack  Rich Kurz  
Circulation  
Viewpoint KimSt.Ciair  Production Wendy Cunningham  BiiiO'Rourl<e Matt Novak  
Kathy Welsh  Ann Buff  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 31. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's High: 72 Yesterday's low: 47 Nation's High: 97 (Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 1 7 (Big Piney, Wyo.) 
Forecast: Mostly sunny and very mild today with a high of 70 to 75. Clear and mild tonight with a low of 40 to 
45. Sunny and mild Thursday with a high in the mid 70's. 
Pr9SSure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 
The Graduate Student Union in cooperation Junior/Senior Pre-Law and Pre-Med Students are with the Student Union Board will host a Halloween Party invited to visit the law and medical schools at the Univ. of for the children of Notre Dame faculty, staff and gradu-Michigan on Nov. 2. The number of spots is limited so ate students today from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at sign-ups will be on a first come, first serve basis. Theodore's, second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Registration will be at 201 Main Building today. The trip Refreshments, activities and Halloween Surprises will be is sponsored by SARG at no cost to those attending. provided. 
Attention: Clubs, Organizations and
Beta Alpha Psi will hold a mandatory meeting Departments -Information for the Spring Calendar of today at 4:15 p.m. in Room 23 Hayes-Healy. All current 
Events (Daily Shillelagh) is due in the Student Activities members and Fall initiates are required to attend if they Office, on Friday, Nov. 2. Please include the name of the wish to maintain their active status in BAP. 
event, date, time, place and sponsoring organization or department.
The Notre Dame German Club will meet outside the North Door of North Dining Hall for a dinner and discussion auf deutsch in the Blue Room. 
Because midsemester grade reports were 
mailed on Oct. 25 to students' home addresses. a day
The last day for course discontinuance has been later than originally scheduled, reports were also sent to moved to Monday, Nov. 5. student's local addresses. 
WORLD 
Prime Minister Margaret 
Drug traffickers in Bogata. Columbia threatened Thatcher, isolated in the European to execute seven journalists they are holding if the gov­Community and sliding in opinion polls ernment launches a new offensive against them, accord­at home, on Tuesday defended her re­ing to a statement sent to news organizations Tuesday. jection of the European Community's The statement, bearing the letterhead "The leap toward monetary union. In a Extraditables," as the Medellin cocaine cartel calls itself, rowdy Parliament session, opposition marked the first time the traffickers admitted holding the parties accused her of "tantrum tac­journalists, kidnapped over the past two months. Amongtics," being rude to the other the abducted reporters were Francisco Santos, news edi­leaders and undermining British influence at an EC tor of the country's leading newspaper, El Tiempo, and summit in Rome over the weekend. "In my view, we have Diana Turbay, daughter of former president Julio Cesar 
surrendered enough," Thatcher told lawmakers. Turbay. 
INDIANA 
Work may begin soon on a new SouthShore An attorney who represents Bedford North Railroad passenger station at Michiana Regional Airport Lawrence Community Schools was arrested Tuesday and to replace the downtown South Bend depot. An increase in charged with fondling a 15-year-old Lawrence County ridership is straining the downtown station, which is also boy. Jan Buker, 40, was charged with two felony counts used by Amtrak passenger trains, and seating is limited of child molesting and with disseminating matter harmful on rush-hour trains, said Gerald Hanas, manager of the to a minor, a misdemeanor. If convicted of the charges, Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District. Buker could face up to 12 years in prison and a $25,000 which owns the railroad. NICTD will use a portion of an 
fine. 
$18.5 million federal grant to pay for station improve­ments. 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On Oct. 31: 
Market Update for Oct. 30, 1990
Herbert and Vera DeMike's penchant for punctuality saved their lives -twice. The 
eln 1909: A West Point cadet 
is injured in a football game against 
DeMikes were saved from carbon monoxide poi­
Harvard, then dies, prompting the Volume in shares 
soning, caused by a malfunctioning furnace, Oct. 
cancellation of the annual Army-Navy 
22 by co-workers who were alarmed by their un­
game.
characteristic tardiness. The DeMikes have been 
133.98 Million 
eln 1932: President Franklin
saved from the deadly fumes twice because co­
Roosevelt urges five-day week and
workers at the University of Notre Dame, where 
federal aid for the unemployed. 
Herbert is a janitor and Vera is a maid, were 
NYSE Index
worried about them. "He is always on time," said 
eln 1946: Chilean President165.24 {7 1.47
John Zack, who came to the DeMikes' house and 
Videla upholds pledge, giving three 
S&P Composite 
rescued them on both occasions. "He is very 
Communists Cabinet seats. 
301.88 {7 2.83
rarely sick, and if he is, he calls." 
eln 1969: Gunman takes plane from San Francisco to Rome in 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,430.20 <Qr 5.94 
first transatlantic hijacking. 
Pre c i ous Metal s 
• Five Years Ago:
Gold {t$2.80 to $373.70/oz. 
President Reagan orders an inquiry on Soviet sailor forced back to ship nearSilver tt 7.7¢ to $4.127/oz. 
New Orleans. 

Wednesday, October 31, 1990 
The Observer 
ND business professors discuss potential business faculty jobs 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
A burning intellectual curios­ity, enthusiasm for teaching, and a desire to make students understand are keys to success for students seeking academic careers as professors, Edward Trubac, associate professor of finance and business eco­nomics, said Tuesday. 
A panel of Notre Dame pro­fessors discussed the faculty life during a seminar on business faculty careers sponsored by the ND College of Business Administration. 
The faculty life requires an inten~st in the big picture and in theoretical situations, as well as a desire to teach others, ac­cording to Ann Root, assistant profnssor of marketing. 
More importantly, "the job is about learning," said Joseph Guiltinan, associate dean of MBA programming. A professor continually interacts with students and his environment; once one stops learning, he stops being effective as a teacher, he continued. 
However, "if you're interested in the academic life because of teaching, don't get into it," said Trubac. Research and teaching are interdependent parts of faculty life, he said. 
The PhD programs train stu­dents in methods of research, through small-group, intensive-study seminars, research, and the dissertation, according to Michael Crant, assistant pro­fessor of management. Stu­dents, according to Crant, work toward contributing to the body of knowledge in a certain field. 
Both Trubac and William Ni­chols, professor of accountancy, said that teaching and research have rewards. 
Trubac explained that teach­ing never becomes boring, since there are always new develop­ments and applications of basic principles to changing situa­tions. 
While "your biggest im­pact.. .is in the teaching area," said Nichols, research gives a person recognition for his dis­coveries. "It's the most frus­trating thing I've done and the most rewarding thing I've done professionally," he concluded. 
"It's very hard for you to know whether you want to go into a doctorate program," said William Wilkie, Nathe professor of marketing. According to Wilkie, students considering a doctorate program needs to consider their long-term aspi­rations. According to Guiltinan, a student must like learning, be self-disciplined, and have sue­ceeded as a student. 
"Keep yourself in the running until you're sure you're out of the running," added John Keane, dean of the College of Business Administration. 
Interested students should talk to faculty members and students in doctorate programs, and investigate the doctorate programs of many schools in order to make a well-informed decision, said Guiltinan. 
According to Wilkie, the fac­ulty life is a rewarding one. "What matters is the internal­ization of scholarship, not ex­ternal pressures and struc­tures," he said. "The payoffs 
are  later." Striving to be  a  
scholar, he continued, is  a  
"worthy goal."  

page 3 
APPh®
Speech at Diet 
South African black leader Nelson Mandala delivers a speech at the House of Representatives Tuesday in Tokyo. 

India police open fire on Hindus, kill 5 
AYODHYA, India (AP) ­Government forces fired on thousands of Hindu fundamen­talists who broke through po­lice barricades Tuesday and forced their way into a heavily guarded mosque. Five Hindus were killed and 20 wounded. 
At least 26 people were killed in other parts of India as the decades-old dispute between Hindus and Moslems over own­ership of the site came to a head. 
The controversy has left at least 138 people dead in the past week, brought Prime Minister V.P. Singh's govern­ment close to collapse and fur­ther strained already tense re­lations between India's Hindu majority and Moslem minority. 
Singh, who opposes the Hindu campaign to replace the 16th-· century Moslem mosque, on Tuesday repeated his offer to resign if his party thought it would help contain the sectar­ian violence. He made a similar offer Monday. 
Hindu fundamentalists had. said they would start construc­tion Thesday on a temple to the god Rama on the site occupied by the mosque. The government said it would block any attempt to destroy the small, one-story shrine and arrested 90,000 supporters of the fundamentalist World Hindu Council in the past week. 
On Tuesday, 10,000 Hindus stormed police barricades out­side the disputed shrine. Police first used tear gas and bamboo canes to beat back the crowd. 
Clarification 
The Student Senate story in Tuesday's Observer did not clearly explain the events following a difference of opinion between former Business Board general manager Molly Griffin and the manager of Irish Gardens. While Griffin had the option to fire the manager, she chose not to. 

page 4 
DACOR asks NO to submit candidates for fellowship 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has been selected by Diplomatic and Consular Officers, Retired (DACOR), an association of re­tired U.S. Foreign Service offi­cers, to nominate candidates for a $10,000 fellowship in in­ternational affairs. 
The Willard L. Beaulac Memorial DACOR Bacon House Foundation Fellowship will be awarded to one of three seniors nominated by the University at the conclusion of the fall 1990 semester and selected by the education committee of the Washington, D.C.-based foun­dation. 
Awarded primarily on the ba­sis of academic excellence, the fellowship is exclusively for the payment of tuition and will be granted for a year of full-time graduate study in 1991-92. It may, however, be extended at a lower rate for a second year of study leading to a master's de­gree. 
Seniors who are U.S. citizens and are majoring in the fields including international rela­tions, economics, history and political science will be eligible for the award and need not be planning careers in the Foreign Service. 
Detailed information on the award will be available from Jennifer Warlick, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters and director of the University's Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
--~­
Wednesday, October 31, 1990The Observer 
API'tDto
Helms campaign 

North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms' campaign stop in Durham was interrupted several times by sup­porters of his opponent Harvey Gantt. At one point Helms allowed a Gantt supporter to take the micro­phone and speak. The campaign pits the conservative Helms against a more liberal opponent. 
I' 
President George Bush takes an opportunity to ham it up with photographers Saturday afternoon in Honolulu.He was about to set sail on a catamaran owned by friend Fred Zeder. 
................. 

REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED NOVEMBER 1 
Because of M & M -Midterms/Miami Registration/Information Available NOTRE DAME: -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry: ·Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library -Dorm Representatives 
SAINT MARY'S: ~Office of Justice Education 128/159 Madaleva Hall -Campus Ministry 161 Regina Hall 
................. 
Hoffmann wins Cavanaugh Award 
Special to the Observer 
F. Nordhoff ("Nordy") Hoffmann received the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Award from the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association in private ceremonies at the Morris Inn Oct. 19. 
While a student at Notre Dame, Hoffmann was an All­American player on Knute Rockne's last football team. Following his graduation in 1933, he worked for Shell Oil and the Curtiss-Wright Corporation, where he became interested in organized labor in the steel industry. He served the United Steelworkers as legisla­tive director and the Democratic Party as executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. 
In 1976, Hoffmann was 
Take A Good Food Study Break. 
make a greatstudybreak. 
sodium, and calories than most other cookies. 
They're made with naturally nutritious oatmeal 
and good food extras like dates, nuts, raisins, 
apples, and oat bran. 
Enjoy your next study break with America's 
favorite oatmeal cookies. 
Archway. The Good Food Cookie. 
FREE COOKIES 
Complimentary Archway Cookies at the movie. 
THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER Cushing Auditorium November 2&3 8:00p.m. &10:30 p.m. 
elected sergeant-at-arms of the 
U.S. Senate, in which he admin­istered 2000 employees with an annual budget of $56 million. Since 1981, he has been presi­dent of F. Nordy Hoffmann & Associates, a consulting firm in Washington, D.C. A former member of the National Alumni Board, he served as president of the Alumni Association in 1983. Hoffmann and his wife, Joanne, have one daughter, Eileen, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1988. Hoffmann is the seventh Notre Dame alumnus to receive the Cavanaugh Award, which is annually given to a graduate who has performed remarkable public service. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., died at Notre Dame in 1979. 
The University's 14th president, Father Cavanaugh was a native of Ossowo, Mich. who was graduated in 1923 and received a master's degree in English from Notre Dame four years later. 
Following a brief career in the Studebaker Corporation's advertising department, Cavanaugh entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1926 and was ordained a priest in 1931. He studied philosophy and theology for two years in Rome before returning to Notre Dame to serve as prefect of re­ligion. 
In 1938 Cavanaugh became assistant provincial of the Congregation, and in 1948, he became president of Notre Dame. During his six-year tenure, the number of graduate students quadrupled. 
W__
ed_n_e_s_d_ay~,_O_c_t~ob~e~r~3~1~·-1~9~90~---------------------------·--------~T~he~O~b~se~N~-~er~~---·~~-------------~~~------------------------------Lp~ag~e~5-----~ 
Continual growth needed to reduce poverty, Gaag says 
By JAY STONE •a pattern of growth which 
News Writer effectively uses the poor's most important asset, labor, which Gaag said is "the core of suc­
Sustained economic growth cessful anti-poverty policies,"and an "investment in human anddevelopment" are essential to •an active policy to providesuccessfully reduce poverty ac­basic social services, such as 
cording to Jacques van der 
education, family planning, and 
Gaag, member of the World 
health care. 
Bank and co-author of The 
Gaag said that the report is
World Development Report "not pleading for" economic 
1990 on poverty. 
growth or social services alone, Gaag gave a lecture Tuesday but for a balance between the
in the Law School about the two. The report's co-authors 
findings in the 1990 report on found that countries which em­global poverty. 
phasized only one of the twoThe World Bank's report ex­factors did not successfully re­amined the condition of poverty 
duce poverty. 
over a 20-year period from 1965 to 1985. According to For example, according to the Gaag, the report takes a long­report, Brazil and Pakistan,term view towards poverty, 
who increased growth while
emphasizing a pragmatic ap­neglecting social services, haveproach to poverty reduction quite high infant mortality ratesand an interest in human devel­
and very low primary en­
opment. The authors of the re­rollment. Sri Lanka has goodport were interested in "what primary enrollment rates andworked and what didn't", said low mortality rates for children Gaag. 
under the age of five, but has'1\vo factors are necessary to few economic opportunities forsuccessfully reduce poverty: 
the poor. 
"Roosevelt's 
paralegal 
program 
was my 
stepping­
stone 
to a 
rewarding 
career." 
Anne Hillard Legal Assistant 
Litigation • Real Estate CorporatioiUI • General Practice Estates, Trusts .k Wills Employee Benefits Plan 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Dlinois 

• 
Effective employment assistance 

• 
Four-month day and eight-month evening classes 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fielda locatioiUI 

• 
Student loalUI for qualified applicants 

• 
Spring and Summer terms begin in February and June 


A representative will be on your campus November 2, 1990. Please contact your placement omceto schedulean appointment. 
For additional information, please call collect: 
.~ 
Roo.evelt University Lawyer'• Assistant Program 
430 S. Michigan Ave. 
• Chicago, IL 60605 (312) :J-41-3882 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 

~ 
!KAPLAN 
DON"T COMPETE WITI-1 
AKAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 £. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466l7 Phone 219/272-4135 
Gaag said that even if a coun­growth", said Gaag, which, in report is not calling for an try pursues policies which en­turn, fosters poverty reduction. increase in foreign aid across courage poverty reduction, the board, said Gaag. Rather, there will still be those who re­Debt, however, contributes to he said, aid needs to be main exceptionally vulnerable, the poverty levels in many de­targeted toward investments namely the elderly and the dis­veloping countries. Gaag said that are truly necessary, such abled, to factors promoting that the debts of extremely poor as developing rural poverty. According to Gaag, the nations, particularly countries infrastructure and human capi­report suggests that nations in Sub-Saharan Africa, need to tal. institute income transfers and be forgiven in order for them to safety nets, such as food embark on a path towards From 1965-1985, the poverty subsidies and public employ­reducing their poverty levels. outlook in developing countries ment schemes, for the elderly Less poor developing countries, has improved according to the and the disabled. however, could conceivably. World Bank's 1990 report. 
repay their debts, said Gaag. Over that period of twenty 
According to Gaag, in deter­years, consumption per capita mining the type of safety net The report found little corre­has increased about 70 per policies which would be most lation between foreign aid, bi­cent, from $590 to $985, life effective, an emphasis on tar­lateral and unilateral, received expectancy has increased about geting those most in need by developing nations and 20 per cent, from 51 years to should be observed. Policies poverty reduction. Gaag said 62 years, and primary net en­which encourage self-selection that if foreign aid were to help rollment rate has increased by giving the poor various eco­reduce poverty, the existing from 73 to 84 per cent. nomic opportunities will be the amounts of such aid should be most effective targeting tech­redirected to focus on poverty Regionally, however, these nique, he said. reduction, or redistributed to economic indicators vary. For 
those nations which are example, South Asia's con­
In addition to national poli­severely poverty-stricken. sumption per capita has in­cies which encourage sustained creased 30 per cent while Sub­economic growth and social In 1988, Israel received Saharan Africa's consumption services, Gaag said interna­$282.07 per capita in aid and per capita has stagnated. tional efforts on issues like had an $8,650 per capita GNP, trade liberalization, debt, and but China received $1.84 per Although the global progress foreign aid are essential to re­capita in aid and had a $330 of poverty reduction is good, duce poverty. per capita GNP. Gaag pointed out that there are 
still about one billion people 
The world bank report sug­According to Gaag, aid should living in poverty. Gaag said the gests that trade liberalization also be given to countries which report defines the global indirectly reduces poverty. implement programs that poverty line as about "one dol­Trade liberalization is an encourage sustained economic lar of consumption per day per "engine for sustained economic growth and social services. The person." 
SENIOR CLASS ~ o~~~... HALLOWEEN PARTY/ 
The Generics rww~~~~~*o~===~ Costume Contest at... i!:CLUB 

~-~-------~ 
--~---------------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1990 
Students will 'Take Back the Night' with march 
By CARRIE DWYER News Writer 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will partici­pate in a campus-wide "Take Back the Night" march Thursday, beginning at 8 p.m. in front of O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
The basic purpose behind the march is to "raise community awareness concerning the fact that women do not feel safe walking alone on campus at night," said senior Lisa Keckler, one of the organizers of the event. 
In addition, the march will serve as a "public witness to the fact that a problem of secu­rity does exist at Notre Dame and recognize that there have been attacks," Keckler said. 
Several speakers will be ad­dressing security issues and safety precautions at several points during the march. The participants will walk around campus including a march down Saint Mary's Road and a stop at the Grotto. 
Organizers of the march hope that the event will encourage women to he more cautious when walking alone and sug­gest that students should take advantage of the University's escort service, SafeWalk, when­ever possible. 
University organizations sponsoring the march include Women United for Justice and Peace, the Women's Concerns Commission of Student Government, the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination. 
It's been  
a celebration  
since the  
day he was  
born.  
22 Years Today  
Glenn Hettenbach and his new bride, Stephanie Plemmons, feed each other wedding cake following  
their Halloween wedding Saturday in Newburgh, Ind. Both the bride and groom are big horror movie fans  
and both wanted something a little different for their wedding. The result: Frankenstein and his bride.  WHO HE -BRETT HUNT -OF COURSE  

Gulf 
continued from page 1 
be taken in the event of combat 
in (Kuwait)," the Iraqi News 
Agency reported. 
"We must be prepared with 
all that God has given us of po­
tential to thwart perfidious in~ 
tentions by the United States 
and its allies to launch an at­
tack in the next few days," the 
report quoted Saddam as say­
ing. 
The agency did not explain 
why Saddam believed an attack 
was imminent. 
Church 
continued from page 1 
specific  and  individual  
rectitude.  He defined specific  
rectitude  as  independent  of  
personal  dispositions  and  

circumstance, while individual rectitude involves the conduct of an individual. The married state, according to McCormick, is an example of specific rectitude; the conduct of a married individual is an example of individual rectitude. 
"By giving emphasis to 
specific rectitude, we abstract from tile real. Lumping all actions together more or less obscures differences (such as that between sexual relations between engaged individuals and sexual relations between 
casual  acquaintances),"  he  
said.  
"We  tend  to  focus  our  

attention on the morality of acts. But in doing this we run the risk of oversimplification. Sexuality is our capacity for relationship. One can avoid all sexual violations and still not be sexually mature." 
After pointing out the problematic nature of the the terms "homosexuality" and "morality," McCormick turned to the question of whether there is a normative position on homosexuality and what such a position would be. 
"The evidence that we have is that the heterosexual is the norm. I accept that. Now what does that mean?" he said. He also pointed out that not all heterosexual marriages are happy and fulfilling, while not all homosexual relationships are unhappy and unfulfllling. 
*************************************************************************** 
!* * 
* 
* 
* 
!* 
i ** * 
!* 
* 
!
! !* ! !* * 
!* !* * 
OFFICIAL COMMEMORATIVE NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 

T! 
The official commemorative shirt is decorated on the front with Notre Dame and Miami Football helmets, the date of the game, and the Final Score! The back is a multi-coloredcollageof NOlre Dame seenes including the Goltkn Dome, Hesburgh Library, Leprechaun, and two game tickets with a picture ofCoach Lou Hotlz. 
0 n the evening ofOctober20lastyearZheng -deWang, Notre Dame graduate stutknl from Tianjin, China, was struck down by a car while walking on Notre Dame Avenue. Uninsured at the time oftheaccitknt, Zheng-de was severely injured and comatose for several months. Now confined to a wheelchair and untkrgoing therapy, Zheng-de is able to recognize oldfriends and to move his fingers for rudimenJary communication, but his recovery is far from complete andfar from certain. 

Profits thrived from the sales of this T-shirt will be donated to Zheng-de' sfarnJy for the enormous expenses ;• this tragedy has inflected on them. 
The navy t-shirts are available in both short and long sleeve versions for $10.00 and $12.00 respectively. AU shirts are size extra-large. Get your shirts at the Notre Dame Bookstore, Hockey Pro-Shop, Alumni Association Office, and LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. Or call our toll free number, 1 800/345-5027 (Add $5.00 per telephone order for shipping and handling.) 
• PLACEMENT EXAMS FRENCH SPANISH 
Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Tuesday November 6 and Wednesday, November 7 
respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a placement Exam prior to registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information are available in the Language Lab Office Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
Sign up closes Friday, November 2 at 5:00 

-
*************************************************************************** 
..SUB Music presents•• !* a progressive band from New Jersey. * Performing at Ste]paLll'll Cell'llter on Tlbru.usdlay, November 1 at 7:30lPM. * 
* 
* 
The Critically Acclaimed !* * 
ITINY LIGHTS! * ~ 
* 
"Tiny Lights recall an era when Talking "Tiny Lights musicality refreshing" !* Heads played a small club with the same -The Daily Iowan • arty punch as this Hoboken outfit." ! 
-The Gayjn Report ! 
"Modern rockers shouldn't let this slide by." !* 
-Billboard ! 
*
"...you've got alternative music with a "Tiny Lights just glow--Band's eclectic ! touch of class." sounds stem from innovation." * 
-Illinois Entertainer -The Houston Press !* 
lPROMOTING "flHIJEJm NJBW A!LJBUM lHIO"f CIHIOCOIL.A1'lB MASSAGE !* 
* 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 31 , 1990 
The ObserYer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director ................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Dear Editor: 
In the Oct. 18 Observer, a young lady from farley named "Amy" expressed her worry about Miami ticket sales by saying, "I'm hoping that other ticket sellers won't back down on their prices, because if they Sflll out, they'll ruin it for the rest of us who want to make a lot of money." This is one of the most pathetic things I have ever heard in my four years at this University. 
First of all, Notre Dame has a long-standing football tradition. It is special to be part of the history by attending football games as a student. To miss out on football is to miss out on part of the Notre Dame experience. 
Secondly, the kind of merce­nary attitude presented by "Amy" and others like her can prHvent genuine fans from at­tflnding home games. Friends and siblings (many of them students) are often unable to S!Hl a Notre Dame game be­causfl student tickets have been boos ted to outrageous 
DOONESBURY 
prices-prices which are a result of the greed and selfishness of ticket sellers. 
Football, however is not the only reason to go to Notre Dame. In fact, I do not think Lou Holtz coaches football. He coaches life, and football is just sort of a hobby. In almost every speech and interview he has given, Mr. Holtz talks about striving to do your best, to have respect for yourself and for others, and to reflect the class and ideals that Notre Dame stands for. Wanton avarice is not one of these ideals. 
I hope that "Amy" and others like her will realize that such rapacious statements are self­degrading and a sign of super­ficial belief in the false god of money. Perhaps if she were less concerned with "making lots of money," she could un­derstand what it means to be a Notre Dame student-she obvi­ously has a lot to learn. 
Fred Trayers Dillon Hall Oct. 19, 1990 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Charles Weiher's letter entitled "Fatherly relationship with God justifies masculine references." (The Observer, Oct 15). Masculine images of God are indeed very justified, for God surely has many qualities which we consider "masculine." However, God also possesses an abundance of qualities which we consider "feminine." Think, for instance, of Isaiah 49:15, which compares the love of God to that of a mother: "Could a mother forget her baby, or a woman be without compassion for the child within her womb? Even if these forget, I (God) will never forget you." 
The point of inclusive language is not that masculine images of God are wrong; instead, it attempts to make us 
aware that there is more to God than masculinity. "Father" ·is a wonderful image of God, offering the concept of God as a loving provider and protector, but God is so much more than a father to us. Likewise, "mother" works beautifully because of the tender, compassionate, nurturing love we so often connect with our mothers. So many of our fathers and mothers have given us such a beautiful taste of God's unconditional love, but neither parental image -nor even the two combined -can fully express the reality of God. No single image can offer our human minds a complete understanding of God. 
page 7 
The mistake we make when we consistently call God "He" is, on some level of our consciousness, that we limit the ways which God can manifest Godself in our lives. It would be just as wrong, just as incomplete to consistently call God "She." The images we require to express the reality of this infinite being we call God, let us call God mother, father, sister, brother, master, servant, neighbor, friend, should be any image that works. Let us speak of God as male, as female, as both, or as neither. Let us refuse to confine our God according to the limitations of our own language and under­standing. 
Dana L. Dillon Knott Hall Oct. 15, 1990 
Remarks embarrass church hierarchy 
Dear Editor: 
In reading an Oct. 16 Wall Street Journal article about the conflict between the Catholic bishops and Catholic politicians on the abortion issue, I find that the Reverend Richard McBrien, Chairman of the theology department at Notre Dame University, was, as is so often the case, quite forthcoming in providing some choice quotations. 
"To hell with them that's what the politicians should be saying," is among the things which McBrien is quoted as saying. 
I wonder if McBrien has any appreciation of how offensive and embarrassing such com­ments are to a great many peo­ple, although they might be quite fashionable in certain cliques. 
They strike me as neither 
thoughtful nor perceptive; and, rather than arising out of a loving concern for those mem­bers of the Church who are in the hierarchy, they seem to spring out of a deep antago­nism. 
Judging solely from McBrien's quoted comments which from time to time affront me in the press, it is hard to believe that McBrien wishes the Church's hierarchy well. The impression he gives, rather, is that he takes glee in seeing it put down and embarrassed. 
For example, suppose that I was quoted in the Wall Street Journal as saying, "To hell with the theology department, that's what Notre Dame students should be saying." Would McBrien be inclined to think that I was a thoughtful person with tbe best interests of the theology department at heart, or would he think that I was a benighted bigot out to "get" someone, and quite unworthy of his attention? 
James J. Rakowski Associate Professor Oct. 17, 1990 
Racism requires senous response 
Dear Editor: 
As tempted as we are to respond to Monica Yant's Inside Column, "Brown's rule on parties is a liberal farce," with an equally sarcastic and ineffective tone, we do not take the issue of racism so lightly. 
David Brach Carroll Hall Alicia Sierra Pasquerilla East Democratic Socialists of America NDISMC Oct. 17, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'And the warlocks and witches rode again, on what the Christians ironically call the 'Feast of All Saints." 
Stephen King 
EXCUSE Me, MAN,  00 YOU, liKE,  YCS, I'MAfi?AI{)  
I'M FROM TH~  KNOW ANY­ THCR£/AJASA  
5ANITATION  THING A!30UT  VIGIL-LA5TN/6HT. 
UPARTMtNT..,  TH&fONZfJ Ml£6  I'M 7()t{) TH£Rt  
I  OUT FRONF  WERe 2400:? PEOPtE.  

OH, fAX){)).. , YW 
I'M /JRCA{)­
HA{)20,000 
FUUY
P&Oft& WAIT­
SORRY.
ING OIJ751{}&­
\
YOUR. HOU5t; ~ 
I 
HEY, YW'R& 
NO, {}EAR.,
NOT, Ul<£, 
ARE YOU~
YOKOCNO 
AR&YW, 
MAN?\ 
Wednesday, October 31, 1990
Viewpoint
page 8 
Christianity requires rejection of homosexuality 
Homosexuality is clearly a important because it separates Christian settings like Notre family member or roommate burning issue on college the act from the actor. Thus, a Dame and, according to the confessed to us that he or she campuses today. Rallies and homophobe has a phobia of Bv Rick Acker reports I have heard, positively suffered from a drug problem debates are held, "educational" homosexuality, but may not In "My Opinion thrives on other campuses. or a compulsion to steal, we materials are distributed by all have any negative feelings Christ taught us to "love your would probably not react by sides, and events like National toward homosexuals. Second, neighbor as yourself." He did rejecting and condemning him Coming Out Day get nation-wide this article rests on the not add "unless your neighbor or her. Rather, we would
Christian one is. We are even
publicity. However, like many assumption that homosexuality happens to be homosexual." probably react by giving him or
taught to fear and be repelled
burning issues, the is a sin. This assumption is We should remember that her support and help in
by sinful desires because these
homosexuality debate often shared by the Bible (e.g. Lev. homosexuality is not the only overcoming the sin or sinful
can lead to sin. Unarguably,
generates more heat that light. 20:13 and Rom. 1:26-27), the sin and homosexuals are not desire. We should react
Christianity asks for, even
In particular, the word Catholic Church and all major the only sinners. Saint Paul, in precisely the same way to
commands, "sin phobia." 
"homophobia" is regularly used Protestant Churches. I have, addition to condemning homosexuals. The old adage as an epithet and is, however, heard honest and that Christians should "hate the 
Homosexuality is a sin.
understandably, rarely intelligent Christians argue that 'The word "homophobia" sin and love the sinner" is
Christians are supposed to be
discussed in a rational and homosexuality really isn't a sin. particularly apt in this
sinphobic. It follows necessarily is regularly used as an
unemotional way. As an insult, I disagree with them, but for situation.
that Christians are supposed to
"homophobia" is generally the sake of brevity, I won't epithet and is, under­
be homophobic. We should fear 
understood to mean evil, debate the issue here. In short, Christians should be
and be repelled by standably, rarely dis­
intolerance and discrimination Phobia (feelings of fear and homophobic in the same way
homosexuality like any other sin 
towards homosexuals, which repulsion towards a thing) is cussed in a rational and they should phobic of any sin or
or sinful desire. Far from being
places it on the same level as not always bad for a Christian. sinful desire. However,
evil, like racism or sexism, unemotional way.' 
racism and sexism. However, Indeed, Christians are Christian homophobia requires
homophobia is a proper and 
one form of homophobia, at supposed to have a phobia of love and acceptance of our
healthy attitude for Christians homosexuality, teaches that "all
least in a Christian context, is sin. We are supposed to fear homosexual brothers and
to have. have sinned and fall short of
actually desirable. sin because we fear God and sisters at the same time we
What does homophobia imply the glory of God."
Before going further, two God hates sin. We are hate and reject their
for Christians? It most Homosexuals aren't the only
caveats are necessary. First, I supposed to be repelled by sin homosexuality.
definately does not imply the ones who need acceptance and
will be using the word because sin is an act in 
violence and hatred too often forgiveness; we all do. 
"homophobia" to refer to a opposition to the God we love Rick Acker is a second year
aimed at homosexuals and their We should love and accept
phobia of homosexuality, not and serve. The more one fears law student and a regular
defender. This VICIOUS homosexuals the same way we
homosexuals. This distinction is and is repelled by sin, the more viewpoint columnist. 
intolerance exists even in love and accept all sinners. If a 
LETTERS 
Column purposefully subverts SUB efforts toward better music 
Dear Editor: Unfortunately for ND/SMC, the 
Like any group of hardwork­group postponed their tour un­ing people, the students of til next spring as a result of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family illness. Mr. Owen was deserve an accurate news me­told about this situation by a dia. It is a journalist's duty to S.U.B. commissioner before he provide objective, verifiable wrote the article. facts which do not mislead stu­3) S.U.B. is attempting to dents. This duty was willfully bring Jane's Addiction to cam­neglected by Mike Owen in his pus next spring. Hopefully, this Inside Column, "ND Needs concert will work out. Not Better Concerts Than New surprisingly, Mr. Owen was in­Kids" (The Observer, Oct. 18). formed of our efforts before he 
In short, Mr. Owen disre­wrote the article. garded the facts about the 4) S.U.B. will give a free con­
Hussein's atrocities easily overlooked 
S.U.B. Music Entertainment cert by a critically acclaimed 
Commission. In this letter, we national band, Tiny Lights, on 
will provide the ND student Nov. 1 in Stepan Center at 7:30 Dear Editor: given accounts to the troop in Saudi Arabia until that body with hard, verifiable facts. p.m. In Paul Peralez's Viewpoint Congressional Human Rights country and the UAE requested 
1) S.U.B. is not sponsoring Based on the facts, anybody article entitled, "U.S. policy in Caucus of indefensible Iraqi assistance. The Kuwaiti people, Middle East neglects humanity's brutality. To begin the list, themselves, have voted with
New Kids on the Block. JACC who read Mr. Owen's article interests" (The Observer, Oct. Iraqi soldiers entered the their feet by leaving the
Productions is. Mr. Owen was should realize that he did not explicitly informed about New write to provide S.U.B. with 9), the author begins his maternity wards of Kuwaiti country. Not only is Kuwait 
"argument" by legitimizing the hospitals, removed newborn
Kids on the Block's sponsor by constructive criticism. He almost completely depopulated, 
Iraqi invasion and annexation infants from incubators, and but almost all of the peoplea S.U.B. commissioner before wrote to undermine S.U.B. 's 
of Kuwait. He states, "Saddam left the infants to die on the have fled to Saudi Arabia,he wrote the article. credibility with the student 
2) S.U.B. is committed to body. Hussein seeks nothing but to floor. Similarly, elderly where the U.S. is stationed. 
unite the Arab people and to re­members of the Kuwaiti
programming first-rate college Erin Lavelle Perhaps Mr. Peralez should ask 
store to the Arab mastery of his 
music. For example, S.U.B. ne­S. U.B. Board Manager population were removed from the fleeing Kuwaitis their 
house." It seems this statement life-support systems and left to opinion of the U.S. response in
gotiated to bring in the Pixies Diana Dow implies that Hussein wants one die by Iraqi soldiers. Even less the defense. 
on November 15. The Pixies MusicCo-Commissioner 
Arab nation with himself as the excusably, Iraqi soldiers bayo­
recently occupied the #1 posi­JeffKranig From this point in his argu­
tion on the College Music MusicCo-Commissioner undisputed leader. The unifica­neted pregnant women and al­ment, Mr. Peralez begins a Journal album chart. Oct. 19, 1990 tion of sovereign nations into an lowed them to bleed to death completely unfounded string of Arab state seems ideal. on the ground. It thus seems accusations against U.S. foreign
However, the only means to this that the West is correct to say policy and American politicalSong offends, angers student end is military conquest, subju­that Hussein "flouts officials. The writer chooses gation and destruction of alter­international law and defies 
not to elaborate about "the
Dear Editor: took part in the "sing-along," nate ways of life. Offered such a human decency." wholesale murder of their
Last weekend something the managemenVowners of the 
wonderful alternative, the The next logical step in Mr. (Arab) populations," and hisprofoundly disturbing took bar, or the performer. I con­League of Arab Nations
,f Peralez's argument, although criticisms of the United States
place at a local bar. Many demn the prejudice which lurks condemned Iraq and its he doesn't include it, would be government only continue ar Notre Dame students were just below the surface of these invasion and annexation of to ask, "Is the U.S. justified in string of unfounded, factless
there listening to a actions. This letter seeks to 
Kuwait. Obviously, other Arab its presence in Saudi Arabia?" political editorials. 
singer/guitar player. The num­give a voice to even the one
~ nations are anxiously lining up Other Arab states and the
ber of Notre Dame students in Jewish person who might have 
for their turn to fall to the world seem to answer a 
Hal Schmitt
attendance was evidenced by been among you, to bear wit­
sword of unification under resounding "Yes," judging by Chris Hewitt 
the crowd's enthusiastic ness to the embarrassment, 
Sad dam. the steady stream of James Flood response when the performer fear, and anger that he/she
f Those who are lining up, in condemnations of Iraqi Chris Ray

specifically thanked them for would undoubtedly have
r reality, are human rights emanating from the United Dillon Hall 
showing up. The performer experienced.
r groups, such as Amnesty Nations. The U.S. didn't land a Oct. 15, 1990 
r sang a song which repeated the I hope that we will all find International, waiting to testify verse "You piss me om You f-­strength and courage to look 
against the Iraqi army. Mr. 
How many Rockets is enough?
ing Jew!" His chant was beyond distinctions of creed, Peralez believes that, "Saddam repeated, with much race and sex, beyond Hussein has been portrayed in Dear Editor: over 100 players and since it is 
enthusiasm, by a large part of stereotypes with no basis in the a madman-a We wish to thank and con­
West as 
technically permissible to fieldthe audience, some of whom fact, and beyond our own religious zealot, who flouts gratulate Lou Holtz, the entire 
the same number more than
raised their their fists to selfish need to build ourselves international law and defies football team, and the student once at the same time, we sug­accentuate the lyrics. up at the expense of denigrat­human decency." The impli­body for the win against Miami. 
gest that the kick-off return
Certainly not every person at ing others. If you believe that cations of this statement are It certainly made our trip to the team field three or four number
the bar joined in, much less these actions were performed campus for the game worth­
that Saddam is not a religious 
25s. This way, the opposing
approved of, singing this song. "in jest" and that thoughts can 
fanatic (the only ones to while. 
team cannot decide to whom
Furthermore, not every somehow be separated from recently claim this were himself We are concerned, however, they should kick the ball. member of the audience was a actions, I urge you to remember and his public relations that "Rocket" Ismail (#25) will 
We hope this suggestion is
Notre Dame student, but the the Holocaust. 
consultants) and that he doesn't not be given the opportunity to useful.
fact remains that they consti­violate international law or display his kick-off return tal­tuted a majority of those in at­Vienna Colucci morals. ents in future games if opposing 
Michael Molinelli , '82
tendance. This letter is not Off-campus teams avoid kicking to him. 
Within the last few weeks 
Robert Ritger. '82
meant to condemn anyone who Oct. 19, 1990 alone, Kuwaiti nationals have Since the varsity roster has 
Oct. 23, 1990 


Accent 
Wednesday, October 31, 1990 


The return of the Great Pumpkin 
I low grand is the night when every malevolent spirit is given free reign upon unsuspecting mortals? 
Atop the plateau of holiday eminence, Halloween stands undaunted, shaking a bloody list at Thanksgiving and Easter. Christmas always produced a pageantry of Star Wars ligures, but all too often December 25th resembled a saccharine-sweet Hallmark card. 
Throughout my years of childhood, All Hallow's Eve lwld memories of gore-dripping t1~rror that even Arbor Day just couldn'tmatch. 
Halloween had all the advan­tages of a major holiday, but none of the drawbacks: no stuffy family dinners where aunts from Ogden asked who your girlfritmd was; you weren't jammed in a suit and lwrded off to Mass (except for tlw following day, but I got out of dass for that); and most im­portantly, people gave you candy for wearing some keen costume! 
It also arrived at a key time, repulsing the deep-blue funk of a new school year, carrying me towards the next major vaca­tion. In addition to all this it nwant something more, much more. 
I ••• 
vampires... would be the laughing stock of the undead community if spotted in earmuffs.' 
Hallow1~en released the flood­gates of my imagination and sent every shambling horror shrieking into the night. Alive were the creations of my cousins and I : the Connecticut Pancake, a lumbering 16-foot­tall nap jack which shredded helpless children with razor sharp teeth, and the dreaded Hopping Noodle, a wailing strand of pasta with a glowing eye, which chased us on one untiring leg. 
Not only did my nightmares 
BILL ROSEMANN 
Tales of angst... 
creep through the neighbor­hood, but I actually joined them. With a little fake blood and scar putty I was their equal. What freedom ... what power. 
With a costume I could be­come anyone I dreamed of be­ing, or was scared of becoming. Donning my disguise as soon as the school bus dropped me off, I would proceed to get physically ill due to unrestrain­able fervor. My mother would then threaten to keep me inside unless I drank some juice and put on something warm. 
Under protest I would give in, complaining that vampires drank human blood and would be the laughing stock of the undead community if spotted in earmuffs. Authenticity was inte­gral to the proper costume, but my mom placed more impor­tance on a normal body tem­perature. 
My early years of masquerade specialized in store bought super-hero costumes. My coveted Shazam mask truly filled my limbs with the powers of the Greek gods. 
Weeks before one night of trick-or-treating, I returned home from acquiring a glorious Spider Man costume to confront a snake in the driveway. I calmly explained to my mother that I could now dispatch of this beast and prepared to leap out of the car. My mom wouldn't believe me, so we waited for fif­teen minutes until the fearsome gardener slithered away. Adults just didn't possess the faith in costumes that I did. 
The grade school years en­tailed lavish productions painstakingly created by my mother. This display of love balanced out the guilt of letting her young child wander into the night to collect candy from 
Costume counseling: 
By PAIGE SMORON spirit. At Halloween every year, Assistant Accent Editor you get dressed up in orange 
The last time you wore a cos­and black, and wear that cute tume, it came out of a box and pin with the spider that crawls had "Speed Racer" emblazoned back up when you pull on it. across the chest. Somehow, you Unfortunately, you've just had could just never endure those a "Color Me Beautiful" plastic masks that make your consultation (all you fashion face sweat. Even those realistic slugs, and you know who you rubber "Planet of the Apes" are, ask the chic girl at the next ones could get pretty moist. table what that means), and as 
It's not that you don't have a Spring, orange is a big no-no. 

strangers. How my hand­crafted Darth Vader costume instilled awe into my friends who, all dressed as ghosts, dropped their sheet-covered heads in shame. 
This visage of evil, complete with a chest life support sys­tem, secured a victory at a school costume contest. Some kid with a similar last name thought he had been chosen, believing his cheesy Raggedy Andy costume could defeat the nefarious villainy of a warrior of the Darkside ... the gall of some people! 
The coming of high school brought with it the notion that it was socially unacceptable to embark upon these quests of greed. It's a good thing I care nothing for the whims of society. 
My senior-year Halloween became a quest for an ever elu­sive Zagnut candy bar. My friend Robert Dickinson and I , dressed as Secret Service men, accompanied another chum who had become his idol, Ronald Reagan. Equipped with trench coats, dark sunglasses, and those little hearing-aid things in our ears, we protected the president from vindictive treat-givers...and a Zagnut was acquired. 
After each night of hunting and gathering a traditional round of bartering, inventory, and concealment followed. Candy was divided into four major categories: fruit (which was immediately discarded), gum and milk duds, sweet tarts and lollipops, and those rare chocolate treasures. 
Loot would be tabulated and secreted away into a dark vault. Of course, returning to my stash I would find all of my candy bars devoured by my brother, who would leave empty wrappers in silent mockery. 
The annual night of terror competed valiantly against the plethora of television classics offered by Christmas. Halloween cartoons tried in vain to match characters such as Klondike, the "silver and gold" prospector, or Dennis, the misunderstood elf who re­ally wanted to be an oral sur­geon (both encountered by Rudolph). 
But who could forget the "Great Pumpkin," championed by Linus, or Charlie Brown's motto of losers, "I got rocks"? And I still envision myself as Ichabod Crane, pursued by the Headless Horseman, whenever I jog around St. Mary's Lake. 
The specials that other holi­days can't defeat were those brilliant creations that could only exist in the wondrous Seventies. 
I ••• 
we protected the president from vindictive treat-givers... and a Zagnut was acquired.' 
' The special Halloween episode of "In Search Of. .. " chilled my soul with its investi­gation of the Screaming Crystal Skull of Death. I was positive that the producers of "That's Incredible" placed their ghost stories at the end of each show 
Page9 
because they knew I would soon be alone in a dark bedroom. 
In those fear-filled hours be­fore sleep, I was convinced the Hamburgler lurked in the shadows, ready to consume me as he did McDonald hamburg­ers. I loved scaring myself, as all kids do, and Halloween cele­brates this fact. 
As I advance in years I find myself without a neighborhood to raid, but my love for Halloween endures. You can bet I'll be one of those fathers who goes around with his kids eaeh year in a goofy costume. For one night we can throw away our oat bran, frighten each other with tales of Gothic evil, and return to our youth. 
My mother, like many adults, just doesn't understand. Whenever the leaves begin to turn orange, and jack-o­lanterns appear on doorsteps she offers her theory that Satan is behind this magnanimous holiday. 
Every year when she asks, "Well, what do you think about Halloween?", I can only grin knowingly at the sky, which grays with an impending doom. 
how to choose the ultimate toga 
So what do you do? Like every and the Irish Guard, of course, other Red-Blooded American is set. All they have to do is de­College Student, you put on a cide whether to spray-paint toga and, between swigs of their hats Mysterious Mulberry beer, refer to yourself incor­or Simply Sapphire. rectly as a mythological god, as Why not go as your favorite in, "Peasant! Bring me a mut­tabloid celebrity? I don't think ton-chop! Charybdis is weary Elvis will ever go out of style. with hunger!" Roseanne might be an option, if 
you like to spit. Cher could be Why not try something a little relatively simple to imperson­more imaginative this year? ate, particularly in her "If I Could Turn Back Time" video.
Instead of going with the Greek 
theme, wear the same sheet All you'd need would be a big and go as Saddam Hussein; you wig and two black ribbons. Oh, might want to carry a stuffed and a few tattoos. (HINT: camel and call it your wife. It's Investing in a carton of the timely, it's making a political Bookstore's little leprechaun statement, it's you. face tattoos will not be very ef­
Obviously, the Simpsons are fective.) happening. This year's creative challenge will be how to por­Don't forget: here at Notre tray Marge's majestic hairstyle. Dame, we have a gold mine of You might decide that the best campus personalities to way to do justice to those ridicule. Enough said. gravity-defying azure tresses is Teaming up with some friends to go with cotton candy (and a can increase the fun the­lot of it). Art major~ could ex­number-of-people-you're-going­periment with paper mache', with-fold. (Seven-fold, etc.) 
Remember the Coneheads? Some conscientious citizens came up with the educational idea one year of dressing up as five forms of birth control. Going as a six-pack of beer or a herd of cattle would not only be original, but would foster a sense of cameraderie. Years from now, when you're wearing plaid pants and tailgating at the Michigan game, you can drunkenly slur, "How about the year we dressed up as a box of Q-tips? Weren't we nutty! Ha ha ha!" 
The bottom line is that 
•
Halloween can be what you make of it. One sophomore, who prefers to remain name­less so as not to be tormented with obscene phone calls and the censure of his roommates, confided that he had always had a fantasy to go as a giant Pez™ dispenser. Bill, be a Pez dispenser. Maybe a Donald Duck one with cherry candy. 
Or just wear a toga. 
Wednesday, October 31, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
Men's soccer loses 3 games 

The CbieMirI AndlvM ~ Kevin Pendergast and the men's soccer team hope to end their three game losing skid in the MCC Championships. 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
Fall break is supposed to be a time of rest and relaxation, but for the men's soccer team it was a time of troubles. It went winless in three games over the break, losing 2-0 to top-ranked Evansville in an away game, before traveling to Miami, Fla., to play in the Southern Bell Classic. The Irish lost to North Carolina-Charlotte 3-0 and 3­2 in overtime against the Golden Panthers of Florida International University. The Irish, now 3-10-3 on the season, weren't expecting a walk in the park when they went into Evansville. The Purple Aces were ranked sec­ond in the country at the time, and Black Beauty Field is a no­toriously difficult place to play. The Irish players had only good things to say about their opponents. "They were really, really, really good," said senior co-captain Paul LaVigne. "They're one of the fastest teams I've ever played against." Although Notre Dame was outplayed in the first half, LaVigne felt that the Irish hung tough in the second half. "They crammed it down our throats in the first half," he said, "but we played with them in the second half." The Irish hoped that the trip to the warm sun of Miami would get them back on track, but, as has happened all season, the Irish got short-changed when it came to the luck department. 
The 49ers of UNC-Charlotte could manage only five shots on goal, but three of them went in for scores. LaVigne summed the game up briefly. "We got some unlucky breaks," he said. The Irish didn't let their last couple of failures affect them going into the game against Florida InternationaL as they came out and fought tena­ciously, only to be the victims of poor officiating. Notre Dame had a total of four goals taken away by the referees, two of them on off­sides calls. "The refereeing was hideous," said LaVigne. "It really had an effect on the game." Even so, the Irish played well enough to have a 2-1 lead at one point, and then to force the game into overtime. Kenyon Meyer scored one goal for the Irish on an assist from Mario Tricoci, and Kevin Pendergast accounted for the other Irish goal. 
"We played really well against a good team," said LaVigne. "Mike Palmer came in and played really well in his first real chance to play, after Kenyon Meyer got hurt." The Irish will next play in the first round of the MCC Tournament Thursday against the Billikens of Saint Louis in that first round game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
I 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S!!! 
••REWARD•• WANTED: ENTREPRENEURS, Need 2 GA's for Penn St PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! 
I lost my RED PLAID PEOPLE WHO WANT TO WORK call Ryan x1048 I need student and GAs for CALL JERRY X2088
NOTICES 
UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 THEIR OWN HOURS, MAKE Penn State!! Call Kate at x4071 . in Hesburgh library. VERY high GOOD MONEY, AND HAVE THANKS!! sentimental value (plus, SOME FUN SELLING 20 CENT PERSONALS TYPING AVAILABLE it is unique and I would PER MINUTE PHONE CARDS I NEED TWO PENN ST GA's! I need MANY Penn State GAs, 
287-4082 definitely recognize it!) Please call ON CAMPUS WITH THE HELP PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! My preferably in groups. Call Paula-hiag 2983 with info OF EFFECTIVE POSTERS AND parents will pay substancial 283-4096. NQA. I really need my umbrella! FLYERS. FOR FREE INFO. amounts of cash. Call Marc at BOO! 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ••REWARD•• PACK, CALL 1-800-223-7592, AT x1809. I NEED PENN ST & Tenn BUY YOUR HALLOWEEN 
MAKE-UP MASKS AND REAL TOUCHTONE PHONES ONLY. NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL 
219-291-7153 TONE DIAL 268-2678. tixs.272-6306 
PUMPKINS AT THE COUNTY 
HARVESTER, M-F, 12-5
LOST: 14k-gold rope chain TOM 
Professional Word Processing bracelet on Stepan Football 273-0302 HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME Services. When SPEED, Field. GREAT Sentimental Needed: 4 PSU GA's BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S Are you and your roomate an odd 
FORMAT, STYLE, and Value. If found, please call Jared X4246 $ CALL 273-1364 couple that have little in common ACCURACY are vital ... let THE Cara x3847 $ 
but have found a way, or system, 
of living together? If this is you and
HOME OFFICE help. Call 234-$ NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S 
you want your situation published Found at Miami game: Needed: 4 PSU GA's ONE PENN STATE STUD CALL X3797 in the South Bend Tribune, call 
3891, ask for Kristi. $ 
Seen at x1818. TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS -one pair of sunglasses BEST OFFER UNIVERSITY TEACHING Call Man @3472 to identify. Call JOE 271-1211 Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Seen at Top 5 quotes from the AMUN trip EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST $ 283-1818 and leave a message. to Chicago: 
-one shoe JARED X4246 FOR SALE­
FOR SALE 
5) If you're going to commit a
STUDENTS IN ECON $ crime, make sure you're wear-ing,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 LOST RING I! I LOST RING!II $ Have Penn St GA's? Call Tom 
Gold Clataugh (sp?) ring ... an attractive studio in lovely old $ x1581. Will beat any offer. your name tag. 
two hands holding a heart­mansion near ND 255/mo call 4) I'm thinking two words: TYPING term shaped purple stone, with a 2888595 Will trade 2 TN TIX PLUS $$$ "limousine" and '1elony". papers/reports/letters/resumes. crown on top ... PLEASE contact HELP ME! For 3 TN TIX together. Call 3) They pull10 white guys out of Pick up & delivery available. 277-me if you've found it!!! It was HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. Eddy I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. Mike 202-955-6616. here a week. Go ahead and cross 5134 Cathy. a pre-Christmas gift-the St. 6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, eat-in JOE X2358 the street. 
only one I'll seel! Erin at 4634, Kitchen, Livingroom and finished Please help me I need Penn State 2) What pretty girls? I'm sit­114 Lewis ........ room in basement. $500 security GA's. And lots of them. They're for 
ting next to Jabba the Hut! 
WANTED 
and $500/month plus utilities. NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S these relatives I don't know very 1) Peace can wait!! Notre Dame Contact John at 232-1242. AND 2 STUD TIX CALL well, and if I don't get any, it could football is on. BIG BROTHERS,BIG SISTERS ARNOLD 3333 be downright awkward. Call TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? x2980. THUG-Chicago Trip MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND Happy 20th birthday! This Saturday, Nov. 3 OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR ••• NEED PENN ST. GA'S ••• We were going to write a Call237-1983 to R.S.V.P. mo. Summer, Yr., round, All CALL JANE 271-1920 PENN ST. TONY x1590 call John at 234-5840 Top 10 list about you, but Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 
besides GWEN, your Tuesday­
Wednesday-Thursday night 
CHICAGO 92625. FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 
BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE WANTED: 2 TICKETS I NEED A LOT OF PENN ST. solo beer binges and your 
BIG BROTHERS,BIG SISTERS CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, GA'S occasional resulting bed waning, SPRING BREAK/CHRISTMAS 273-9406 OR 283-2805 NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT $$$CALL DEREK 234-3356$$$ your excessive BREAK TOURS (704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. movie watching, GWEN once 
Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap again, your hairy back, and your 3 INDIVIDUALS OR STUDENT 15 min. Walking from Campus DO YOU HAVE PENN ST. TIX? hour long distance phone calls, we ORGANIZATIONS NEEDED TO Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 I NEED PENN STATE GA'S FOR I NEED 8!!!! CALL TIM#2704 the other members of the 
LOST/FOUND 
PROMOTE OUR SKI/SUN Bob x3234 UTILE SIS AND MOM PLEASE Pangborn Sophomore Six have 
nothing to rip on you about. Happy RED•••RED•••RED•••RED••• Birthday, we love you!!!!! 
TOURS. EARN MONEY & FREE CALL DIEGO #4075 Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll 
TRIPS TO CANCUN, be happy! Cristin x3857 jacket lost at stanford barn MONTREAL, DAYTONA, For Sale 
Happy 20th B-Day
dance...also VERMONT. CALL HI-LIFE 1-800-Need up to 4 Penn GAs & 2 stu. HAVE SIX (6) NAVY GA's Scon Kamenick, we love you. 
RED ground grafic piece from 263-5604. 10 SPEED BIKE 272-0306 x2567 BUY SOME OR ALL Curtis, John, Joe, DaveRED car in D-2 lot... PRETTY CALL x3652 and Vince. 
PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN THEM II! X-4096 WANTED: 6 Pin, 6 Penn St., A gorgeous brown 1980 Dodge I need 2 Navy G.A.'s and Need 2 studs for Penn St. Call 
WE SING BAD 
ask for PAULA. 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 custom van. 2 Penn. St. G.A.'s or Billx1583 listen for us soon
Wall to Wall carpeting. student tickets. 
(coming to your room) 
Sunroof and rear ceiling vent. Please call Kathy x1296 PLEASE SELL ME YOUR PENN LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses Tinted windows. ST. GA'S!! I NEED A LOT. $$$$ 
THE HUNT IS ON !Ill! Nov. 2 & 3 
in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. Make Money Watching T.V.! New clutch and muffler. X 3028 OR 2546 $$$ If found, please call Rene 277-EXCITING new method. Amazing Body and engine in excelllent $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
JET HOT-TUBS!?!?! Tell me ... do 
9468. Reward offered. 24 hour recorded message shape. Wealthy Physician to Pay I need all the tickets that you the candles always go out
reveals details. Call512-585-4808 Call x2506. Big Bucks for PENN STATE can sell me for the Tennessee­
BEFORE you both get there??? 
Ext. 101. G.A.'s or STUDS N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 
(You know I love you!) 
I lost my wallet October 17. CD Player, Stereo cabinet, mise x 1935 ask for Alex or leave a message. If you find it, please call Joe at electronic equip. 272-41 08, Steve $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WEEGE, WEEGE, WEEGE, 
2480 or 2456. Reward offered. ATIENTION: Excellent income for I I need two tickets for Penn State. 
WEEGE, WEEGE!!!!! You got
Thank you home assembly work. 504-646-HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. 
your wish times 5! (Is 5 your lucky 1700 DEPT. P5868 FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE 2 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE number?? Tee hee.)
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273· CALL JOY X4856 I need two tickets for Penn State. 
FOUND: "precious" stone outside 1364 GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. HAPPY "15th" BIRTHDAY ROB!
SCH Call Ken 239-5611 to HELP -I need PSU GA's You are such a "Mad Dog"!!
identify. TRAVEL FREE! CAMPUS REPS PLEEEAASE call Beth at NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA Love,
WANTED. QUALITY VACATIONS TICKETS 288-0597 TIX FOR UTILE SIS PLEASE!! 
Sara
TO EXOTIC DESTINATIONS. CALL SARAH 2815 FOUND: LADY'S BROWN AFFORDABLE SPRING BREAK Need 2 Penn St. GA's LISA GORSKI:Congratulations on TORTOISE SHELL GLASSES PACKAGES TO Need $$$?Sell Jay x2290 I NEEEEED Penn St. GA's leading the Irish at the MCC's and LEFT ON TUESDAY IN JAMAICAICANCUN! FREE your ga's to all Please Help for taking 4th place! Way to go! COUNTRY HARVESTER IN TRAVEL AND$$. 1-800-426-home games. Need 2 Penn St. GA's Jill x4852 LAFORTUNE. 7710. Call tom x1597. Jay x2290 
sdgf 

Wednesday, October 31, 1990 Scoreboard page 11 
NHL STANDINGS NFL INDIVIDUAL LEADERS 
NFL SlATS
WALES CONFERENCE 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE w L T Pts CE GA 
Patrick Division 
Quarterbacks NY Rangers 10 3 0 20 55 30 An Com Vds TO lnt New Jersey 8 3 17 50 38 Simms. Giants 145 90 1165 10 AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE OFFENSE
Pittsburgh 6 6 13 61 53 Testaverde. T.B. 162 100 1464 9 4 Yarde Ruah Paaa
Philadelphia 6 6 0 12 44 46 Miller. Atl. 219 130 1709 13 4 Houston 3020 625 2395
Washington 6 7 0 12 41 44 Montana, S.F. 266 168 2134 16 9 Cincinnati 2835 901 1734
NY Islanders 3 Harbaugh, Chi. 124 78 1043 6 4
9 0 6 31 54 
Jets 2513 1036 1477Adame Division Denver 2431 895 1536
Boston 6 4 1 13 36 41 Rushers Kansas City 2344 879 1465
Montreal 6 6 1 13 42 44 All Yds Avg LG TO Buffalo 2274 888 1386Hartford 4 6 2 10 30 40 Johnson. Phoe. 139 605 4.4 35 3 Miami 2188 794 1394Buffalo 3 5 3 9 36 36 Anderson, Chi. 125 567 4.5 52 8 Seattle 2137 839 1298
Quebec 3 7 3 9 38 53 B.Sanders, Det. 110 462 4.2 24 6 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE G.Anderson, T.B. 109 440 4.0 22 3 Norris Division Anderson, Giants 108 415 3.8 28 5 
w L T PIS CE GA E.Smith, Dall. 102 373 3.7 16 4 St. Louis 8 3 17 45 35 Broussard, All. 83 368 4.4 !50 3 Chicago 8 5 0 16 43 32 Detroit 6 4 3 15 51 48 DEFENSE
Receivers Minnesota 2 8 3 7 35 52 Yarde Ruah Pall NO Vds Avg LG TO Miami 1611 492 1119Toronto 2 10 1 5 34 61 
Rison, Atl. 45 
724 16.1 175 8
Smythe Division Rice, S.F. 44 672 Raiders 1888 666 1222 
15.3 42 9 Plnsburgh 2017 730 1287
Los Angeles 9 2 1 •1 9 57 33 
Byars, Phii.(RB) 42 411 9.8 Calgary 8 4 0 16 52 36 25 0 Kansas City 2099 828 1271
Ellard, Rams 40 668 16.7 !50 3Vancouver 6 5 0 12 36 38 Buffalo 2144 896 1248 
Novacek, Dall. 
35 402 11.5 t29 3 Houston 2157 698 1459Winnipeg 4 7 1 9 41 42 
A.Carter. Minn. 32 382 11.9 t49 4Edmonton 2 6 2 6 29 31 San Diego 2202 735 1487 E.Martin, N.O. 31 504 16.3 58 3 
Sharpe, G.B 30 522 17.4 176 1Tuuday'a Games Late Games Not Included 
Scoring
St. Louis 5, DetrOit 2 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE
Touchdowns
Los Angeles 4, N.Y. Islanders 1 
OFFENSE Pittsburgh 6, Philadelphia 2 Yard a Ruah Paaa
TO Rush Rec Ret Pta Anderson. Chi. 10 8 2 0 60Toronto 5, Minnesota 4 49ers 2842 618 2026Rice, S.F. 9 0 9 0 54
Calgary 8, New Jersey 3 Rams 2470 832 1838 Rison, All. 8 0 8 0 48
Washington at Vancouver, (n) Atlanta 2430 840 1790B.Sanders, Det. 8 6 2 0 48
Wednesday's Gemaa 1492
Philadelphia 2357 865 Minnesota 2292
Boston at Buffalo. 7:35 p.m. 824 1468 Montreal al Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Kicking Chicago 2290 1212 1078 Los Angeles at N.Y. Rangers. 7:35 p.m. PAT FG LG Pis Green Bay 2182 834 1548 Winnipeg at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Christie, T.B. 16·16 15·1 7 54 61 
Cofer, S.F. 19·19 13·19 56 58 Lohmiller, Wash. 15·15 13·20 55 54 Butler, Chi. 20·20 11 ·14 52 53 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
DEFENSElgwebuike, Minn. 16·16 12·14 48 52 
Evansville 2 Notre Dame 0 Yarde Ruah Pall
Davis, Atl. 25·25 8-11 51 49
UNC-Charlone 3 Notre Dame 0 Thuraday, November 1 Giants 1855 542 1113
Ruzek, Phil. 16-17 11 ·15 44 49Florida International 3 Notre Dame 2 OT Men·s soccer at St. Louis (1st round MCC Chicago 1848 856 1 1 112 
Tourney) Jacka, G.B. 13·14 10·12 53 43 Philadelphia 2038 596 1442 Women's Soccer Volleyball v. Illinois Washington 2072 661 1 411 
Notre Dame 2 Calvin College 0 AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 49818 2089 474 1815
Notre Dame 3 Florida International 2 OT Quarterbacks MCC Tournament New Orleans 2106 606 1500
Fr1<18y, November 2 All Com Vds TO 
lnt
Notre Dame 1 Dayton 0 (Mmlflr111la) Men's and women's swimming host Notre Dame Schroeder, Raiders 144 83 1335 
8 3
Notre Dame 4 Xavier 0 (championship) Relays Kelly, Bull. 193 122 1451 11 6 
NBA PRESEASON
Moon, Hou. 331 203 Notre Dame placed first at MCC Championships DeBerg, K.C. 21 1 1 1 7 1588 9 3 Brister, Pitt. 189 1 12 1272 11 8 
Men's Croea Country 2487 18 9 
Moo1day'a GamesWonwo'a Croa Country 
Saturday, November 3 Boston 120, Utah 102Notre Dame placed first at MCC Championships Football v. Navy at Giants Stadium Milwaukee 90, Cleveland 83
Rushers
Volleyball v. Western Michigan
Men'o Swtmmtng All Vds Avg LG TO Golden State 122, L.A. Clippers 114
Men's and women's swimming host MCC Dual
Notre Dame 58 Western Ontario 37 Seattle 117, Sacramento 116
Meet Butts, S.D. 145 654 4.5 42 6 Humphrey, Den. 112 573 5.1 137 
4 Tuesday's Game Women's Swimming Detroit 1 13, Houston 104Thomas, Buff. 98 565 5.8 60 2Notre Dame 58 Western Ontarto 37 
3.6 4 PreseasonEndOkoye, K.C. 145 515 32 
Fenner. Sea. 97 432 4.5 28 7 

Fans 
continued from page 16 
Vu Tran, another senior from Dillon, likes the wave for com­munltarlan reasons. 
"I think the wave brings ev­erybody together in the stadium like a family," says Tran. "It's cool. It's mostly for when the game gets so boring and you try to wake everybody up and start them cheering." 
Stacy Bogataj, a freshman in Le Mans, would have a set of codes instituted governing the wave. 
"If you're going to be there, the least you can do is do the wave," she says. "Tickets are so expensive anyway. Doing the wave should be a prerequisite to getting your ticket." 
"There arc many other ways of getting a crowd to cheer," says Ned. "That's the cheer­leader's job." 
This introduces other rituals which may get the crowd cheering. Take the popcorn-like procedure in which students jump up and down, so that the student section ends up looking like an irritated sea anenome. 
"I think Michigan was doing that cheer before we were," says Brian Lane, a senior In Morrissey. "I don't know, but I have trouble copying Michigan. It's like worshipping the devil or something." 
Most studeQts seemed to ap­prove of the bench jumping, de­spite the fact that it makes you reel like a fool when you partic­Ipate. 
The real controversy of bleacher participation is the curious practice of throwing cups into the air. The first time it happened in the last four years was in 1988, when, dur­ing the Miami game, people started throwing their plastic cups in the air until the stands looked like a popcorn popping machine. 
"The cups has to be the best," says Tran. "Nothing beats the cups. It even beats the wave. It should be mandatory. The alumni should get into that." 
"Now there's a cool tradi­tion," says Ned. Others, however, do not share in this enthusiasm. 
"I don't like the cup throwing because it gets out of control," says Linda Klein, a senior In Lewis. "I don't really like it when people get bashed in the head with it." 

NOTRE DAMEIS ANNUAL CAMPUS-WIDE DEBATE SERIES 
INTERESTED IN MEMBERSHIP ON THE ICEBERG DEBATES STANDING COMMITTEE? 
ICEBERG DEBATES" 
WE NEED PEOPLE IN THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
PUBLIC RELATIONS ADVERTISING DORM LIASON ARTWORK SCHEDULING POLICY ANALYST 
APLLICATIONS AVAILABE IN SECRETARY'S OFFICE .,j 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. DUE NOV. 5th BY 5 PM ~ 
Said Lane: "Cups are a defi­nite thumbs-down. It can be a real bummer if you get bashed on the head. It also distracts from the game. I prefer old­time cheers like 'We are N.D."' 
Says Ned: "There iB a definite risk factor, especially when the cups are still full. I say, just look up." 
We have a professed creator of the tradition at Notre Dame. Mike Byrne, who lives ofT-cam­pus, says he started it uninten­tionally. 
"I think. I started It," says Byrne. "I just tossed up my cup and everybody else did, and it kind of looked like popcorn." 
or all the non-sanctioned cheers, however, the wave is the most established. It may never leave Notre Dame, although it certainly wasn't born here. Credit the student body for a~ding spice with bench-jump­ing and a variant of the wave, the inverse wave. But with things that may be dangerous, let's be careful. 
And please, no more mob lynchings of Gum by. 

page 12 
The Observer Wednesday, October 31. 1990 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
"The thing that we hav·e developed is a winning attitude. We refuse to lose right now and that may be more important than everything else we've done because it will carry over -a winning attitude gets passed on. I think that that will have a big impact on the future of the program." The records broken by the 1990 squad read like a coach's wish list: Most Wins in a Season (16), Best Winning Percentage (.825), Most Goals Scored (66), Least Goals Allowed (18), Most Assists (40), Most Points (172), Most Shots (372), and Fewest Games Held Scoreless (two). Where individual records are concerned, marks were set for Most Shutouts in a Season (11; Michelle Lodyga), Most Goals (15; Alison Lester), Most Assists (9; Marianne Giolitto tied record), Most Points in a Season (35; Alison Lester), Most Game­Winning Goals (6; Susie Zilvitis), and Most Shots in a Game (10; Denise Chabot). So why, if Notre Dame is such a great team, aren't they busying themselves for post-season competition? Good question, but rest assured, the Irish have suffered no gross injustice. In Division I, the number of teams who participate in the championship tournament is proportional to the number of teams who participate in the sport. Hence, twelve teams are picked for post-season play. Even though the Irish went 16­3-1, their three losses came against Duke, UNC-Greensboro and Creighton -recognized 
powerhouses. Had Notre Dame pulled out wins over these teams, you can bet that they would be suiting up for a tournament game. After watching the women's soccer team mature and improve over the course of the season -especially after learning of their dismantling of nationally ranked Xavier -I cannot help but think that the Irish would have fared better against Duke and Greensboro had they played them at the end of the season. Of course, it could be argued that the Irish might not be playing so well now if they had not been spanked earlier. In any case, I'm not going too far out on a limb by saying that Notre Dame would give Duke and Greensboro a tighter game right now. "The weekend at Duke made us realize that we still had a lot to learn," said freshman Mary Kate Kelly, whose sentiments seem to speak for the entire team. "Duke was good, though, because if we had gone on play­ing relatively weak teams, we probably wouldn't have im­proved as much as we have." "After the weekend in North Carolina, I was upset that we had lost," said Petrucelli. "The kids thought that I was crazy. I said that we had a chance to beat lots of great teams and make the playoffs. But at the end, we all think that we had a great season. It's funny what you can accomplish when you really believe in yourself-these kids really believe that they can play now." When asked about the future of the growing Irish program, meanwhile, Kelly was op­timistic. 
..1 know that we'll probably get more and more competitive as time goes on with our new coach," said Kelly. "Coach is going to recruit hard and bring in lots of players. I had a great experience this year, and I hope and plan to be around for the next four years." Her coach shares her optimism. "We have to do a couple of things to take the next step," said Petrucelli. What is the next step, I wondered. "Our goal is to win the national championship," stated Petrucelli, his eyes and ex­pressions conveying that, without a doubt, he is a man with a mission. "I don't really feel that we are one, three or five years away. I feel like we are four or five players away. It could be a year or four before we win it. I don't see it as a matter of time, but as a matter of players. Potentially, we have the players that we need right here and they just have to get better. I have to get better and the kids have to get better. We need to be better at every position. "We are actively pursuing the top players in the country. I don't know if any Notre Dame team will ever win as many games as this, but we are trying to upgrade our talent. Also, we play Wisconsin, Duke, Xavier, Dayton and William & Mary next year. We are trying to get away from the club teams -I think we have proved that it is not worth it for us to play clubs." Clip and save, dear readers ­the Irish are putting the puzzle pieces in place and a national championship is within their grasp. 
win the third flight. Irish Head Coach Jay Louderback said his team performed admirably despite harsh weather conditions. "All the singles matches were outdoors," said Louderback, "and Saturday it was really windy and Sunday it got pretty cold, but our girls went out and didn't let it affect them. Everybody did really well." The Irish will face their next competition on November 9­12 when they travel to Madison, Wisconsin to participate in the Rolex National Indoor Qualifyer. The Rolex Tournnament will involve all the teams in the region, and the top doubles team, along with the singles champion and runner-up, qualify for the National Indoor Tournament. Notre Dame had no qualifiers last year, but Louderback hopes for a different outcome this year. "We're trying to get six singles players and three doubles teams into the [Rolex] competition," said 
Louderback. "It's rett bi . " 


TONIGHT! 8:00PM -I 2:00AM WilSON COMMONS' LOUNGE NO COVER CHARGE WITH COSTUME! 
-·· 
... 
ND women's tennis team sweeps all titles at MCC's 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
For the third consecutive year, the Notre Dame women's tennis team swept all singles and doubles titles to capture the Midwestern Collegiate Conference crown at Notre Dame last weekend. The Irish easily beat second place Marquette by a wide 72-50 margin. Notre Dame junior Tracy Barton defeated Marquette's Kim Limpert 6-1, 6-1, for the top flight singles title. Other Irish winners in the singles competition were freshman Christy Faustmann, who cap­tured the crown at second­seed, freshman Terri Vitale (third flight), freshman Lisa Tholen (fourth flight), sophomore Melissa Harris (fifth flight), and senior Kim Pacella (sixth flight). Barton followed up her sin­gles victory by teaming up with Faustman to capture the doubles crown. Vitale and Tholen took the number-two doubles title, and Katie Clark and Krist Doran combined to 

Wednesday, October 31, 1990 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
All Novice and Varsity crew members should come to 104 O'Shag at 7:30 p.m. today. Novice ergathon dues will be collected and this weekend's regatta will be discussed. Also, rent-a-rower details will be discussed. Varsity should bring $6 extra for Stevenson's. 
Novice boxers are rnminded that training begins this week in the boxing room at the ACC. All beginners should attend; veterans are welcome. Practice starts at 4 p.m. daily. Questions, call Norm at 233-8133. 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will be testing its ranks Sat, Nov. 3rd at 10 a.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. All spectators are welcome. 
Irish Insanity will not meet this Wednesday. All members are encouraged to attend the Nov. 9 hockey game. Details will follow. 
Off-campus soccer team -the first playoff game will be Sunday at 1 p.m. vs. St. Ed's at Stepan North. Questions, please call Dave at 233-9226 or Brian at 288-4724. 
Men's lnterhall football equipment return is Thursday, Nov. 1 at Gate 9 of the Stadium. The time are: Carroll, 6 p.m.; Pangborn, 
6:15 p.m.; St. Ed's, 6:30 p.m.; Dillon, 6:45 p.m.; Morrissey, 7 p.m.; Flanner, 7:15 p.m.; Keenan. 7:30p.m.; Cavanaugh. 7:45 p.m. and Zahm. 8 p.m. The teams who turn in everything on the first day will be placed in a hat determining issue for next year. Jerseys and pants must be returned no matter what condition. If not, a charge will result, and the team will be among the last to receive equipment next year. 
The NVA Turkey Shoot will be Nov. 13-14. Sign up at NVA. 
Some employers promise 
you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,c.s.c Congregation of Holy Cress Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Male swimmers beat WOU 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team returned from a successful road trip to Canada this past weekend, recording their first dual meet season win against Western Ontario, 58-37. 
Notre Dame has defeated their friendly opponents in all but one of their 30 meetings. The tradition swimmers' associate with the annual meeting is inherent in the ceremonial ex­change of gifts among the team captains and the singing of both the American and Canadian National Anthems be­fore the start of each·meet. Although the Irish dominated the waves, winning eight of nine individual events, the meet required more than the Irish men just showing up on the pool deck in their suits. 
"Canadian men have always done an excellent job of racing the 'opponent,"' said Coach Tim Welsh. "Swim meets often choose between racing the 'clock' and racing the 'man' (person in the next lane). It is very good preparation for us to race with a team that races the 
~man.'" 
The Western men won the opening relay, putting the Irish seven points behind. After Notre Dame won the next three events, they took the lead and didn't look back. Welsh felt the men and did "an especially strong job of controlling the middle portion of the meet." The transition points came in the middle of the meets in the 200 fly,lOO free, 200 back and 400 free. The Irish men in­creased their lead from eight points after the 200 fly to a 21 points three events later in the 400 free. "It is important in dual meets to grab the opportunity to win the meet when it comes. " said Coach Welsh. Senior co-captain Brian Rini won both the 400 free and the 200 free by coming from behind in the second half of both races. Rini broke the Western pool record in the 200 free with a time of 1:45.82. "Brian's races are an excellent example of 'racing the man' and also of our level of condi­tioning," said Welsh. Coach Welsh felt both the hard training work and practice time spent on starts, turns, and stroke mechanics showed very well in the teams' performance. 
Welsh emphasized the im­portance of team spirit among the team. Spirit, unity, enthu­siasm, and commitment to do­ing a good job are all a part of the game. 
"Both teams led in spirit by 
example and leadership of the senior class," he said. "Team spirit continues to be a trade­mark of our Notre Dame Swimming Teams. We are proud of that." 
Freshmen David Nathe won both sprint freestyle events; 50 free and 100 free. Senior co­captains Paul Godfrey and Jim Byrne took firsts in the 800 free and 200 back respectively. Junior Joe Rentz won the 200 fly and and junior Hoger Rand placed first in the 200 breast. 
Welsh is riding on the ex­citement of the Western victory as he prepares the men's team for the 26th Annual Notre Dame Relay Meet on Friday and the MCC Dual Meet Saturday. The MCC Dual Meet on Saturday will feature the MCC conference teams in a meet format which will allow Notre Dame to swim every event that will be in their conference championships in February. The day will also score dual meets between all conference teams, so that nearly 60 dual meet scores will be recorded on Saturday. 
The meet this weekend "will give us a chance for everyone to do a lot of swimming, and for us to examine both our team strength and team depth in de­tail," said Welsh. 
UNIVElbJ J. 1 \..Jr ~.jOlRI: DAME OFfiCE OF THE PROVG...l 1 , id~""".JLNTS 
ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE 
AT WASHINGTON IIALL THURSDAY, .NOVEMBER 1 ··sHAi<ESPEARE's-· As· YOU i..JKE·JT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2 SHAKESPEARE'S AS YOU LIKE IT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3 KATHLEEN Nl HOULIHAN'S SONS AND DAUGHTERS 
(Scenes from 20th Cemury lnsh Theatre) Devised by Sam Dale 
8:00 pm Tickets: $10, SR Sen it'I Ci lizens $6 Students 
Tickets arc available .11 1he UL'<>r or in advance ;t the !.a Fortune Student Center Ticket orr,< c M,tstnCarci/Visa orders call 239-R 12H 



We're looking for seniors who like 
working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and aucliting at State Farm. 
At State Farm, we understand the concept of "work:' Believe it or not, we also understand t11r concept of "plaY:' 
That's because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the frrst without having an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Farm in Bloomington could be Uw ideal place for you. ~ 
'tou'll work for one ofthe country's most respected companies on the most advanced comput.t'r equipment in the industry. 'thu'll be challenged and stimulated. \ou'll be rewarded with excellent pay ~md benefits. \ou'll make vour clas..<;mates verv envious. 
\\l1at's more, you'll cilso have time to appreciate the fmer things in life. That's because l3loom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, ttl start a family (if: indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the conununity's pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and ot11er recreational facilities, you'll find two Wliversities t11at offer a host or cultural and social activities to take advantage of 
Ifyou're a senior with a mat11. accounting, data processing, sAuTE State Farm or computer science background, come talk to us at your FAIM In college placement office. We're looking tor people who are SllraDCe motivated and outgoing. People who enjoy challenges on tlw INsuuNc~ Companies 
job -and away from it. After all, you're not just looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1990 
performance as far as tech­
nique is concerned, and productivity. But sometimes a
Women's swim team winners ~otes 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame's women's swim team recorded its first win of the season in a cross the border dual meet this past weekend. The Irish handily defeated the Western Ontario Stangs in London, Ontario, winning six of nine individual events. 
Coach Tim Welsh was pleased with his swimmers' performance. 
"It was a very good win for us," said Welsh. "The Canadian women have always been very competitive with us, they won two of the last three meets. 
"When they won the first re­lay in a time two seconds faster than they had swum last year in February, we knew they were prepared for the meet. On the next event, however, (800 freestyle), Katie Pamenter, and Karen Keeley finished first and second to tie the meet. We were in charge of the meet from that point on." 
In addition to winning six events, four combined first and second places helped lead the Irish to a 58-37 win. The combined places also proved the increase in team depth since last year when the Irish only beat the Stangs by six points. Coach Welsh attributed the teams' impressive performance to the strength of overall conditioning and to practice time spent working on starts, turns, and stroke mechanics. 
"Our hard training work showed, and showed up very well. This is a good sign for upcoming meets," said Welsh. 
"The team's spirit, unity, en­thusiasm, and commitment to doing a good job," said Coach Welsh, was an important key to the Irish win. "It is especially exciting to see the team so spirited this early in the season." 
Welsh was happy to see the continuation of Notre Dame Swimming Teams' "trademark" team spirit. 
"Both the men and women teams led in spirit by example and leadership of the senior class. This will help in our preparations for the meets leading up to the National Catholic meet right after Thanksgiving," he said. 
Sophomore standout Tanya Williams continued her win­ning ways by setting a Western Ontario pool record in the 200 fly, 2:05.61, and winning the 200 freestyle. Freshmen Kristin Heath, Shannah Mather and Colette LaForce all had excellent meets for their first Irish road trip. Heath recorded wins in the 200 Individual Medley and the 400 freestyle. Junior Shana Stephens and sophomore Kay Broderick took first and second places in the 200 back, while Susan Bohdan and Jean Kelly sealed two events by taking second places in the 200 free and 200 fly. 
This week the women pre­pare for the seventh annual Notre Dame Relays on Friday afternoon and the MCC Dual Meet on Saturday. 
"Both meets will give every­one the chance to do a lot of swimming, and for us to ex­amine both our team strength and team depth in detail," said Welsh. 
Notre Dame won both relay meets last year, and Welsh is aiming his team towards winning the relay meets again this year. 
We're Fighting For Your Life. American Heart ft 
Association 'Y' 
contmued from page 16 
for as long as he has been. He is really progressing very well." Young also figures to see more action this weekend especially with Zorich out. 
Although Irish quarterback Rick Mirer had his worst outing of the year against Pittsburgh (five for 16 passing, 85 yards, one interception), he erased any doubts Holtz might have had about his determination on the field. "On offense the thing that surprised me the most was Rick Mirer," Holtz said. "That was probably Rick Mirer's worst pitcher learns to win when he doesn't have a fastball. "That's the thing about Rick Mirer. Number one, on the pass that was intercepted, Rick Mirer was the guy that made the tackle on it. When it was first-and-15, we ran one of the few options we ran and he picked up 14 yards. He ran physically, he competed well, never got downhearted, never got discouraged, never worried about anything except winning and remained positive through the entire course of the football game. That's the first time I've seen him when he had a reason to be down, and he remained positive." 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
~eric~n Psychoanalytic Association accredited training; Umvemty of Chicago medical faculty; treating people with personal, relationship, or career problems. Increased self-knowledge reveals new opportunities. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 243-5656. 


Domoentic 5odollob ~-.-;;.-....-w;;;;;;; I I J1111111 
fll"-b 

Wednesday, October 31, 1990 The Observer page 15 
·-~ 
CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 
See the TINY LIGHTS!! 
'f~lUl rr~cQJ<ElW, November 1 ~ft®~~[(l} C®[(l}ft®~ 
OO~f!JB Show begins at 7:~©PM~ 
Thursday, 

FREEl 
Dirty Harry Montgomery Theatre-LaFortune Showtimes are 8PM and 1OPM. Tickets are $1 . 

Wednesday, October 31, 1990 ACROSS 33 "-siamo," 59 Sports org. Verdi aria 60 "The -that
1 Judge's bench 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m Third Annual Benefits and Lifestyle 35 Position G.R.F. men do ...":
5 Piglet played at Shak.
Fair, "Good Health Is No Trick." Joyce Athletic & 
10 Anagram for Michigan 61 Former town 
Convocation Center. Admission Free to Notre Dame 
oats 36 Salinger work, employee
Faculty and Staff. Sponsored by Human Resources. 14 Mormon milieu 
with "The" &2 Do a gym 15 Country lass 
40Self exercise
2 p.m. to 5 p.m. IDENTI CHILD-Children will be pho­16 See 10 Across 
&3 Rosalind41 Decorate anew
tographed and fingerprinted. Joyce Athletic and 17 Middling 
Russell role 42 Measure of "a 
Convocation Center. Admission Free to Notre Dame 
1&Compound miss" 64 Dispatches
Faculty and Staff, children and grandchildren. Sponsored derived from 
&5 These may be 43 Of touch, sight, 
by I Iuman Resources. ammonia 
smokedetc.
19Dies­
4&JuneV.I.P.'s
4:30 p.m. Fiction Readings by Richard Elman. Abrams 20 These have 
47 Musical syllable 
Chair in Jewish Studies. Room 223, Hayes-Healy. wide ears, DOWN 
according to 48 Defense org. 
Sponsored by ND English Department and Abrams Chair 1 Kiss 
Heywood 
49"-,
in Jewish Studies. 
28it
23 Kind of cup three-person'd 24 Exist God": Donne 3 Houston org. 
6:30 p.m Film, "Rebnl Without A Cause," Annenberg 4lrascible
25 Grieves 56 Arctic seal 
Auditorium. Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by 5 Pinches 
28 Side by side 58 "With this ring 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
6 Kind of sphere 
32 Savory jelly -wed" 7 "With the blue 
7:30 p.m. Hecital, "This England," performed by David ribbons-" Howey of the Royal Shakespeare Company. Auditorium, a Letters on some
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Provost's Office. switch boxes 9Whatsome 
8:45 p.m. Film, "The Godfather II," Annenberg smokers would 
like to kick 
Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by 
10 Evening party 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
11 Salts 12 Explorer Johnson
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
13 Dined
October 31, 1990 
21 Co-creator of "Twin Peaks" 
7:45 p.m. Seminar Discussion, "Truth and Authority in 22 Go wrong Hational Inquiry," Prof. Alasdair Macintyre. Part of the Faith, Intellectual Life, and the University Lecture Series. authority .Jacques Maritain Center, 7th Floor Hesburgh Library. 26 Early 
Missourian
Sponsored by G.S.U. Intellectual Life Committee. 
27 Writer Sinclair 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cajun Chicken Breast Macaroni & Cheese Sweet & Sour Pork Eggplant Creole 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



28 Pisa's river 
29 Bitter 
30 Fashion 
31 Sassafras and tupelo 
33 Victim 
34 First--kit 
37 Capricious people 38 Stern 39-grise 
(person having unofficial power) 
SPELUNKEii 
. 
MAROl 
GRASt 
\ 
P\CTIONAIW Ps)tHIC 

44 Fastener 51 Nose: Comb. form
45 Scrap for Spot 
52 Reward, in 
46 Some depart-poesy ment-store 53 Pine employees 54 Wading bird 55 Whips
49Edge 
56 Haw's pal 50 To be, in 57 Fred Astaire's Boulogne daughter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
LE.T M~ STAR\ DRAWIN' FIRST, 
WILL)'A? 
I 


ION BOARD 
Sports
Wednesday, October 31, 1990 
Chris Zorich out indefinitely with sore knee 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame nose guard Chris Zorich's knee injury will keep him out of the lineup indefi­nitely, according to Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz. Zorich hurt his knee on the astroturf at Pittsburgh Stadium midway through the third quarter in Notre Dame's 31-22 victory. Although there was no serious damage, the knee is very swollen and Zorich is experiencing some pain. He will definitely miss Saturday's game against Navy in Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. "My understanding on it is that when the swelling goes down and the pain subsides, there isn't any other damage that he can do to it," Holtz said. Holtz added that Zorich's injury is identical to one he suffered in the spring of his freshman year. Zorich missed all five weeks of spring practice that year because the swelling did not go down and the pain did not subside. "I know this. I know he wants 
"O.K., so, like, I'm standing in the football stadium, and, well, like, they get the wave goin'," says Ned in an excited voice. "I hate that thing. It becomes more important than the game. Why can't the people just yell 'We are N.D.' or something?" Ned may be right. The wave is hardly original, it takes away from the attention of the game, and it has a large faction against it. Besides Ned. Take Chris Hanley, a senior in 
Dillon: "We should ban the wave because it's boring and it doesn't make any sense. What's the point? There is no point. Who are 
to play. I know he would do anything to come back to play, but we aren't going to let him come back and play until he is perfectly healthy," Holtz said. Although the injury to Zorich, one of the top defensive linemen in the country, obviously concerns Holtz, the Irish coach is also worried about the condition of several players. Outside linebackers Andre Jones (thigh bruise) and Erik Simien (injured knee) will miss Saturday's game, as will split end William Pollard, who hurt his shoulder in practice Monday. Tight guard Mirko Jurkovic (knee) is listed as doubtful for Navy, and Holtz said tailback Tony Brooks (sore ribs) is considered "possible." "Injury-wise, every time we go on astroturf we have a problem with this," Holtz said. "Our football team has been in six very, very tough, physical foot­ball games out of the seven, and I t~ink it's showing up now on 
the injury list." 
Two Irish freshmen figure to carry an increased load in the 
A survey of behavior at ND football games 

we waving to? Ourselves? We know we're there." Or Frank Brosnan, a freshman in Planner: "Waves are kind of boring in a good game. The purpose is just to kill time, and to keep the crowd into it." But talk to other people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and you've got a mutiny if you insult the wave. "Who said the wave is no fun?" asks Amy Carlisle, a Saint Mary's junior in Le Mans. "You must have been talking to the nerds. I like it, all my roommates like it, and all my friends like it. We look forward to it during a game." 
see FANS I page 11 
Scott Brutocao 
Irish Items 
-~----~-·-------~-~-­
upcoming weeks. Holtz said he has been particularly impressed with the recent play of fullback Jerome Bettis and defensive tackle Bryant Young lately. Bettis and Young should both see more playing time as the season rolls on. It has been difficult to justify playing Bettis this season be­cause junior fullback Rodney Culver has been outstanding thus far. Culver is Notre Dame's leading rusher, with 539 yards in 108 attempts. He also has caught 10 passes for 59 yards. Still, Holtz says that Bettis has progressed so much that it will be impossible to keep him out of the lineup much longer. "I think Jerome Bettis is really coming along as a freshman 
and he will definitely play much, much more," Holtz said. "He is starting to compete for a starting position at the fullback position. Culver is playing well, but Jerome Bettis is such an excellent blocker that it's been hard to keep him on the bench 
see NOTES 1 page 
14 
Women's X-C wins the MCC title 
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame Women's Cross Country team approached the last hill on the University of Detroit's challeng­ing 3.1 mile layout Saturday at the MCC Championships, the Irish realized that the final climb symbolized much more than just the end of another race. An MCC victory would be the culmination of a long season which began with a humbling loss to Georgetown but saw the Irish improve with every per­formance. A win would also provide the fledgling program with some much deserved respect throughout the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. In need of no more motivation, the Irish roared to the finish line, scoring a mere 30 points to capture their first MCC title. An enthusiastic Coach Tim Connelly had nothing but praise for his hard working squad. "The girls ran just the way we planned," said Connelly. ''The 

Tim Connelly 
championship has been our goal all year." The Irish utilized remarkable depth in gaining the victory, placing five runners in the top ten. "They went out conservatively -to establish a good position," Connelly said. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame was sophomore Lisa Gorski, who finished with an impressive time of 18:47. Gorski was pleased with her performance but felt the team title was much more rewarding. "It was a total team effort," 
Gorski said. "We ran together and actually had a lot of fun." Connelly, who received MCC Coach of the Year honors for his efforts, echoed Gorski's sentiments. "It was an outstanding group performance," he said. However, the Irish coach did have special praise for the indi­vidual performance of junior Diana Bradley, who was the sixth Irish runner to cross the finish line. 
"Diana went out and made the race," Connelly said. "Even though she did not finish strongly, her leadership really helped the team." Connelly hopes the momentum will carry the Irish through the District IV meet at Purdue on November 10. "We've got to beat teams like Purdue, Illinois, and some Mid­American Conference squads," said Connelly. "If we do that, we'll crack the top ten." · 
Regardless of the district outcome, Connelly views the MCC victory as the pinnacle of a remarkable season. 
Women's soccer closes record books on good yea 

Given the fact that I 
am a sports writer covering the Notre Dame women's soccer team, it should come as no surprise that the obsequious question "That must 

be pretty boring ­
Dave 
why don't you cover a 
Dieteman
real sport?" (such 
Sports Writer
questions are not al­ways worded politely) does not amuse me. Anyone who can walk 
to the home games at Alumni Field or read the game stories about the team should be very much aware of the fact that women's soccer is a "real" sport, and Notre Dame has a very competitive team. Keep in mind that 1990 was only the third season of varsity play for the Irish. Despite having such a youthful program, the Notre Dame women's soccer 

Chris Zorich, here icing his injured knee at the Pitt game will be sidelined until the knee can heal. ' 
The Cllserver I Andrew Meaoskey 
team is well on its way to establishing itself as one of the premier programs in the nation. Those who denigrate women's soccer should also be reminded of the fact that in the first season under new head coach Chris Petrucelli, the Irish set a whopping 20 team and individual records in addition to winning the MCC Tournament in convincing fashion. Petrucelli, who makes covering his team not only professional but enjoyable, was visibly pleased with his team's accomplishment. He did not, however, appear to be shocked or surprised. "Before the season started, we set a few goals for ourselves," said Petrucelli. "We wanted to gain regional recognition. We did. We wanted to reduce our number of goals allowed. We did. We wanted to rewrite the record book. We did. We also wanted to win the MCC Tournament. We did. Obviously, we accomplished what we set out to do. 
see SOCCER/ page 12 


