

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1990
VOL. XXIII NO 61 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.N. passes use-of-force resolution by vote of 12-2 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The U.N. Baker, top representative for the United Security Council, led by the United States as president of the council. States, voted 12-2 Thursday to authorize "If Iraq does not reverse its course military action to free Kuwait if Iraq peacefully, then other necessary does not withdraw its occupying troops measures, including the use of force, and release all foreign hostages by Jan. should be authorized," said Baker. "We 
15. must put the choice to Saddam Hussein 
The only other time the council, in unmistakable terms." created 45 years ago to iron out "If war is imposed upon us by the international disputes, in its history has United States, this will be our destiny," sanctioned force to counter aggression said Iraqi Ambassador Abdul Amir al­was during the Korean War. Anbari. "Our people will not kneel, we 
China abstained, while Cuba and will rise to this responsibility." Yemen cast dissenting votes in'a session Baker at this juncture appeared to arranged by the United States in a show glare at the Iraqi representative and ofinternational solidarity against Iraq. flipped through a copy of the U.N. 
In an ex'traordinary meeting of 13 Charter. British Foreign Secretary foreign ministers, the council handed Douglas Hurd twirled his earphone. All Iraqi President Saddam Hussein an the ministers in session wore dark suits ultimatum to vacate the small oil-rich and sat somberly around a circular table sheikdom that his troops invaded Aug. 2, in the vaulted council chamber. or risk military conflict with U.S.-led The chamber is decorated with a forces. mural of a peaceful world arising from 
In Washington, President Bush called the ashes of war. the U.N. vote "a very strong and powerful message. It will go around the Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah world loud and clear that this guy's got al-Ahmad al-Jaber, however, was not to get out of there. pacified, saying, "The intransigence of 
"Once again, the United Nations, the Iraqi regime is pushing the region to exercising its proper responsibility and a conflagration which we do not want, its peacekeeping function, made a very but which appears to be the only avenue powerful statement. Everybody ought to to restore our rights." understand how strong it is and how important it is," Bush said minutes after The Kuwaiti representative denounced the vote. the "wild beasts" from Iraq whom he 
"Our aim today must be to convince said were pillaging his country and
The Observer/Martha Olldford 
Saddam Hussein that the just, humane murdering his people. "The Iraqi
The final stretch 
demands of the Council and the aggressor showed no sense of mercy or 
A Saint Mary's student enjoys one of the fleeting days of autumn as she slowly makes 
international community cannot be compassion, indeed, no respect for the 
her way down the Saint Mary's road toward home. 
ignored," said Secretary of State James divine or human codes of conduct." 
U.S.S.R. is 
Debate discusses the issues of abortion reintegrating 
By KATE MANUEL He also said that abortions in­volve more than just the indi­
News Writer 
vidual having the abortion.
with Europe 
Martin Klein was faced with a They also involve the unborn 
difficult decision. child being aborted and the By ANNMARIE ZELL His wife, who happened to be doctor performing the abortion. It is incompatible to argue for 
News Writer pregnant with a baby the cou­
ple very much wanted to have, the right to abortion based on a 
The Soviet Union is currently was in a coma following a car right to privacy and then to reintegrating with Europe, as accident. Klein was told by a request governmental funding, demonstrated by its joining an doctor that his wife would have according to Scheidler. He alliance against Iraq, according a better chance of emerging said, "The abortionists are con­to Jerry Hough, James Duke from the coma if she were not stantly referring to privacy; but Professor of Political Science carrying this child. Klein they want it both ways, they and Policy Science at Duke wanted the court to give him want to have their cake and eat 
University. power of attorney so he could it too," 
A major cultural force leading arrange {or his wife to have an Even those performing abor­the Soviets to reintegration with abortion. Two other individuals tions have little doubt that an the European community is approached the court asking unborn child is human, and the their similarity in heritage and that the Klein not be allowed to government definitely has a culture. Hough cited such arrange an abortion for his right to intervene to protect specific examples as wife. those who are not yet born, ac­
Dostoyevski, Tolstoy, and This example, provided by cording to Scheidler. Tchaikovsky, who he said fol­Sarah Weddington, the lawyer The Roe v. Wade decision is 
lowed in the western vein. Also, who had defended "Jane Roe" flawed because the Constitution the Soviet Union, like western in Roe v. Wade, of whether involved, according to but who has the right to force a must be considered in conjunc­European cultures, comes from Martin Klein could justify his Weddington. Rather than focus­decision. Only you know of your tion with the Declaration of a similar Christian tradition wife's abortion by the constitu­ing all their energies on abor­life and your beliefs." Independence, according to rooted in the Byzantine Church. tional right to privacy, was one tion, people should be working "The people who wrote the Scheidler. The Declaration of 
In his own visit to \he Soviet of many issues addressed in to provide a better world for Constitution were most con­Independence "puts life first Union in 1958, he noted that Thursday's debate between the children already born and cerned about making sure there without saying anything about "the teenagers were craving Weddington and Joseph doing more to prevent preg­is religious freedom here," being born" he added. American goods. They were not Scheidler. the executive director nancy, she added. added Weddington. She also "Nobody is 100 % pro-abor­"zenophobic" or in any way re­of the Pro-Ufe Action League. "We have a right to our be­pointed out that abortion was tion. There are very few people jecting westernization. The questions of whether liefs, but we should not be de­not an unknown technology who would have volunteered to 
These cultural forces are very there is a right to privacy and ciding for others," she said. "I when the Constitution was writ­be aborted. It is always some­strong in Gorbachev's genera­whether the state has a com­do not ask you to be pro-abor­ten. one else's abortion... We've all tion for several reasons, he pelling reason to regulate abor­tion. I am not pro-abortion, but According to Scheidler, more been unborn for a while," said said. When the current ruling tion were raised in Roe v. Wade, I think it should be legal." states are becoming interested Scheidler. generation was in its formative and are still at the heart of the "I don't have all the answers. in the unborn child because Weddington "and Scheidler years, the country was allied abortion debate today, said Sometimes I wish I knew how abortion is a social event. also disagreed on the exact with the United States in World Weddington. to make decisions for everyone "Abortion is a social event. moment when life begins. 
War Two. War propaganda dic­Weddington argued that life is
The decision to have or not to ' else. But I really don't think You go out to have an abortion. tated that the United States was have an abortion should not be that you want strangers making Abortion is a form of suicide: made by the government; it can the decisions for you," she said. national suicide, personal sui­
see DEBATE I page 4 
see U.S.S.R. 1page 7 
best be made by the individual "It is not who you agree with cide, family suicide," he said. 
• 


Friday, November 30, 1990
page 2 The Obseriler 
INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 
Forecast for Friday, 30, 1990.
Wanted·: 1991 
Lines show high temperatures. 
commencent speaker 
6 
It's about that time of year when the Uni­versity announces who will have the honor of addressing graduating Notre Dame students at their commencement. 
Last year. in honor Christine Walsh 
of the Year of the Family. the University Business Editor chose to invite actor and author Bill Cosby. Whether that choice 
FRONTS: 
was a good one or not is still open to de­bate. However, it is clear that the University chose Cosby because members of the 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

-
50 Yesterday's high: 61 Yesterday's low: 28 Nation's high: 'X> (Ft. Myers and Naples, Fla.), Nation's low: 05 below zero (International Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: Mostly sunny, breezy and milder Friday, with highs near 
50. Increasing cloudi­ness and warmer Friday night, with lows in the middlll 30s. Cloudy Saturday with a 30 percent chance of showers, and highs in the middle 40s. 
administration believed he exemplified the 
Pressure
values associated with those encouraged during the Year of the Family. 
® © ~ ~ [IT] 8 w 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
The 1988-89 school year was designated 
the Year of Cultural Diversity. Other than the fact that Peter Ueberroth served as president of the Los Angeles Olympic Orga­nizing Committee in 1979, it is difficult to see why he gave the commencement ad­dress. What criteria does the University use when selecting a commencement speaker? Furthermore, does that speaker represent the graduating class well? 
The connection (if there in fact is one) between the year designation and the speaker is not always clear, despite the Uni­versity's best attempts and good intentions. The criteria used for selection seem equally nebulous. Who should the University select? 
The problem with this question is that the University is the only body that has a say in who the speaker will be. Would it be inap­propriate or unfeasible to appeal to stu­dents, namely the graduating seniors, for input in this matter? 
The University may have to send invita­tions to popular public figures as far as a year in advance, which would complicate the possibility of student involvement in the decision process. However, perhaps the University could gather suggestions for commencement speakers from members of the graduating class during their junior year. The University would then have a list of potential speakers in time to send out the appropriate invitations. 
Even if the University is not bound by the suggestions of the student body, the admin­istration at least would have an idea of the general consensus among students. For ex­ample, since this is the Year of Women, the University may find a significant number of students suggesting notable women such as Jeane Kirkpatrick, Sandra Day O'Connor or Barbara Bush. or anyone else the seniors think appropriate. 
During the Freshmen Orientation Mass, we were told that one of the greatest mo­ments in our Notre Dame careers will be commencement weekend. Graduation is meant to be special to each graduate be­cause it marks a new beginning and is shared with family and friends. It seems ab­surd that graduates have no input into the decision concerning who the keynote speaker at this special occasion will be. 
Let the choice of our own commencement speaker be one of the first in our. venture into life after Notre Dame. 
--Ih.e-O.bse.-~ ~~er-­
---.L-::Y~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Thursday's Staff 
Production Sports News 
Melissa Cusack Rolando de Aguiar 
Brad Galko Jeanne Blasi Rene Ferran 
• Siobhan McCarthy Mark McGrath 
Ken Tysiac 
AccentSystems 
Robyn Simmons Cesar Capella 
Viewpoint 
Brian Grunert Paul Froning Julie Shepherd 
Paul Pearson Becky Pichler 
Michelle Devers 
Circulation 
Charmaine Martinez Bill O'Rourke Man Novak 
Photography •oaivd Short 
H  bserver (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday  
throl  Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The  
Obs~  r is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction  
rights  ~ reserved.  •  

Via Associated Pr9ss GraphicsN91 I Br9tldan R9gan 
OF INTEREST Sesquicentennial Student Committee will have a Fiesta Combo-Pan Americana at Theodore's. 
mandatory meeting on December 5 at 7 p.m. in the The International Student Organization, Stuflent Student Government office. Call Katie or Jen if you can Government. HAO and GSU invite you to a night of not attend. dancing to merengue, salsa, cumbias and more, all performed by the band Combo-Pan Americano. Friday,
A Human Billboard demonstration against war in November 30th, Theodore's from 9 p.rn.-2 a.m. the Middle East will be held on December 1. Anyone inter­ested in participating, contact Mark Anderlick at 288-Jack Appleton paintings and prints of the Notre 8156. 
Dame Campus will be on exhibit and for sale on Friday November 30, from 5 to 7 p.m. and Saturday December 1,The Pittsburgh Club is trying to run a Christmas from 3 to 7 p.m. in the Century Center Galleria, South 
bus. If interested, please call Chris (234-8817) or Steve 
Bend. 
(288-5869) before Monday night. 
Professor Alexander Prokopchuk. head of the 
Applications for inter-hall moves over Christmas
department 'Of International Cooperation and 
break will be accepted by the Office of Student Reside?ces
representative of the Russian Ministry of Education, will 
from December 3 to December 7. No Requests rec~1ved
be available to answer students' questions about studying 
after 5 p.m. on December 7 will be honored. Forms Will be
abroad in Russia and the Russian educational system. 
available at 8 a.m., December 3, in the Office of Student
Friday, November 30th from 12:30 to 3 p.m. in the $orin 
Residences, 311 Administration Building. 
Rnnm nf LaFortune. 
WoRLD An Andean summit in Bolivia that listed a common The first planeload of food from German charities market and anti-drug trafficking efforts at the top of its arrived in Moscow Thursday evening to begin relieving agenda brought together the presidents of Venezuela, Soviets weary of the daily hunt for food on the poorly Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia on Thursday. stocked shelves of state stores. Fearing ever-worsening President Bush's "initiative of the Americas" to create a shortages and rising prices, Soviet shoppers are snap­hemisphere-wide zone for_ free trade within North and ping up every item-within minutes of its arrival on shop South America will also be discussed during the two days shelves. Thursday's planeload of 25,000 pre-packaged of meetings opening Thursday. "Our principal proposition meals from German charities was sent to children's has­during this historical summit is the creation of a common pitals and orphanages. The German government planned and free market in the region," Paz Zamora said. It is the to ship huge food reserves, and ordinary Germans fourth such summit since the Andean pact came into be-oledge& $2.7 million on a telethon. ing in 1988. 
NATIONAL The discovery of two giant dinosaurs in Wyoming is Think sledding is harmless fun? Experts concede it's reigniting debate over why the huge beasts became ex-fun, but they dispute the idea that it's harmless. "It's a tinct. Colorado paleontologist Robert Bakker, who led the very common misperception that sledding is perfectly 
team that found the dinosaur remains, said Thursday the safe," said Robert Dershewitz, chief of pediatrics at the discoveries reinforce his theory that dinosaurs became Braintree, Mass. of the Harvard Community Health Plan. extinct gradually. The extinction of dinosaurs is "a big The federal Consumer Product Safety Commission reports 
area of controversy right now in science," said Dr. 31,809 cases in which sledders had to come to hospital Richard Stucky, paleontologist at the Denver Museum of emergency rooms in 1989. Forty-one percent of injuries in Natural History. Scientists offer dozens of theories about Dershewitz's study were to children 5 to 9, and almost the mysterious mass extinctions, including a change in the two-thirds of the total 211 cases came early in the sled­Earth's motion, famine, parasites, poisons, climatic ding season-December or January. changes, meteorites and even extraterrestrial hunters. 
INDIANA 
A trip to the dentist was more than a ~ou­tine matter for Indiana's Army Spec. Terry Rice, who is among troops at Fort Benjamin Harrison preparing for duty in Operation Desert Shield. Rice received a physical which included a dental examination. "They were going to pull a few teeth; that's what I thought," said Rice. A few turned into seven. "They pulled seven teeth and they gave me seven shots," he said. He goes back in a few days to have cavities filled and learn about getting a plate to replace the missing teeth. "They don't want you having a toothache over there," Rice said. "They want you in the best health possible." 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index  
173.14  {}  0.77  
S&P Composite 316.42  <7 1.53  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,518.81 ..0. 16.34 
Precious Metals Gold 1f$3.50 to $388.90/oz. Silver +3.2¢ to $4.085/oz~ 
ALMANAC 
OnNov.30: eln 1782: The U.S. and Britain signed preliminary peace arti­cles in Paris, ending the Revolu­tionary War. eln 1939: The Russo-Finnish War, also known as the Winter War, began as Soviet troops in­vaded Finland. eln 1954: Elizabeth Hodges of Sylacauga, Alabama. was in­jured when an 8 1/2-pound me-. teorite crashed through the roof of her house. eln 1980: Twenty people were slain in San Salvador when vio­lence erupted after the murder of prominent leftist leaders. 

page 3
Friday, November 30, 1990 The Observer 

The Observer/David Short Charles Villa-Vincencio Chairman of Religious Studies at the University of Capetown in South Africa, spoke at Notre Dame Thursday on the problems of South Africa. 

South African prof speaks of obstacles 
By MEG SHUFF News Writer 
South Africa must face three major obstacles before it can become a land of justice and democracy: economic justice, land reform, and racism, ac­cording t(} Charles Villa­Vicencio, Chairman of Religious Studies at the University of Capetown. 
Presently, attempts are being made to keep the economy in the hands of the white minority, said Villa-Vicencio. As evidence of this, he cited the limited number of Anglo-American companies, including the DeBeers Diamond Company, which privately own approxi­mately 50 percent of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 
South Africa is politically to the point where blacks could become part of the state, he said. In response to this, these companies are now urging for privatization, which would re­sult in limiting the state's role in the economy. 
Villa-Vicencio used an anal­ogy of a housewife who sells silverware as a means of demonstrating how blacks gain the right to sit at the dinner table. 
"Economic justice is a major issue as we face the future," Villa-Vicencio said. "Socialism has not worked, but neither has the capitalism of the Western world. 
"It is our obligation to find an alternative through options such as collective sharing and collective ownership," he added. 
South Africa is a microcosm of problems facing the world and many people realize that the time is right for change, said Villa-Vicencio. 
"This is the moment in time, but it is a dangerous time be­cause if a wrong decision is 

American Heart Association 
made we will pay for it, but on the other hand God's graces are with us." 
Despite these existing obsta­cles, Villa-Vicencio envisions much progress in for South Africa in the future. An irre­versible process of change is already underway, according to Villa-Vicencio. There is a tremendous amount of goodwill among the black population as they await the coming of a set­tlement. 
Specifically, Villa-Vicencio emphasized the crucial role which college campuses in the United States play by support­ing sanctions against South Africa. 
"It is vitally important to not change the medicine just as it is beginning to work," he said. "Sanctions need to stay in place until the settlement is signed and sealed and to do this we count on students in the U.S." 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Friday, November 30, 1990 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
not inherent at the moment sperm unites with egg. Scheidler maintained that life begins at conception. 
Even without abortions, ac­cording to Weddington, "75% of all fertilized ovum never be­come a child. What {Scheidler) calls a person does not always result in a person even in the absence of abortion." 
"It is probably true that a lot of conceptions do not go on to birth, but thank heavens we are not responsible for that," said Scheidler. He also said that even if one does not accept the view that life begins at concep­tion, every pregnancy is a birth waiting to happen. 
Both Weddington and Scheidler agreed on the impor­tance of discussing abortion at this lecture, which was co­sponsored by the Student Union Board and Student Government. 
"I do think the abortion issue is an important one. You, in the 
Heart Attack. Fight it with a Memorial gift to the American 
Heart Association. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM.,
-
long run, will be more decisive than either of us participants on the podium," said Weddington. 
"Abortion is probably the most controversial issue in the country today," said Scheidler. "Almost everyone has an opin­ion and the polls are showing a half-half split." 
Weddington is currently a history and government lec­turer at both the University of Texas and Texas Women's University. She has served as general counsel for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, an assistant to President Jimmy Carter, a legislator for three years in the Texas House of Representatives, and a political liaison for various state leaders. 
Scheidler directs the Pro-life Action League, a national pro­life educational organization headquartered in Chicago and has written a book on his methods of fighting abortion. He has appeared on more than a thousand television shows, produced a video featuring former abortionists. and is a regular guest columnist in USA Today. 

AP Photo
Heated argument 
A member of the West Bank settlement of Bait Aryeh (left) argues with Peace Now activists in Occupied West Bank. The activists were protesting the building of houses for new immigrants there, because the houses could endanger Soviet immigration and present an obstacle to peace. 
Happy Birthday Molly (E.B.)! 
She can rUe a fwrse, 6ut can she toucli the mon~y? 
P.S. How about some DAMN FINE 
LOVE, DREW AND LYSS-DOG
eggs? 

Great NOTRE DAME ORANGE Christmas BOWL 
GiftsII 
CAPS 
AVAILABLE 
RADIO CAP 
$32.95 
Now see it and hear it . .. never miss a play. The amazing Radio Cap with it's built-in AM/FM radio is perfect for listening to your favorite team. A MUST while attending the game! 
Mail to: 

Name':
______ ----­ ---­ -----------­ C. C. Enterprises  
Address:  P. 0. Box 2427  
Durango. CO  81302  
City/St/Zip:____  - ------------------­ -or call  - 
MC/VISA ;::_  --·-­ ------­ ·-·  ----­ (303)247-8194  
Exp. Date:____  Price inciudes shipping and battcri('~  




Friday, November 30, 1990 
The Observer page 5 
Labor party wins two special elections in Scotland 
PAISLEY, Scotland (AP) -The opposition Labor Party won two special parliamentary elections in western Scotland in the first electoral test of Britain's new Conservative government, according to results early Friday. 
The Labor victories in the two strongholds of that party had been widely predicted. They caused no great upset to the government of newly appointed Prime Minister John Major, who replaced Margaret Thatcher. 
Still, the Labor Party hailed the results of Thursday's voting. Its financial affairs spokesman, John Smith, said: "The change of leader and removal of Mrs. Thatcher has made no difference and brought no benefit to the Conservative Party, especially in this part of the country." 
In North Paisley, Labor can­didate Irene Adams won 11,353 
Presiders of Sacred Heart Church First Sunday of Advent Saturday, December 1 
5:00 PM-Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C. 
Sunday, December 2 
10:00 AM· Rev. Rkhard Warner, (.S.C. 
11:45 AM· Rev. Peter Rocca, (.S.C. 
f''''''''''~~~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,"ND'~sM'C''''''''''''''''''1 
~ ~V~"' STUDENTS ~ ~ ·'*~~ 18th A,nnual Program I
§c..."'~ l ­
§~ ~ s 
~ ~~ London Rome ~ ~ May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 ~ ~ • Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, ~ s Scotland, and France Germany, and ~ ~ Switzerland ~ 
§ s ~ Courses offered in ~ ~ ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, IIISTORY, EDUCATION, ~ § JUSTICE EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, AND ITALIAN. ~ § ~ 
§ ~ 
~ MEETING Tuesday, Dec. 4th ~ 
~ 6:30 pm CuroU Hall, SMC ~ ~ **Slides, free pizza, and past student and ~ ~ faculty participants will be present** i 
~ For information call Prof. Black : ~ 284-4460 or 272-3726 ! 
'S,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ 
Thinkingofdoing 
ayearofservice? 
How about doingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Nooe Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
votes or 43.9 percent against 7,583 votes or 29.4 percent for Roger Mullin of the Scottish National Party and 3,835 votes or 14.8 percent for Ewan Marwick of the Conservatives. Smaller groups won the rest of the votes. . 
In South Paisley, Labor can­didate Gordon McMaster won 12,485 votes or 46.1 percent against 7,455 votes or 27.5 percent for lain Lawson of the Scottish National Party and 3,627 votes or 13.4 percent for John Workman of the Conservatives. The other votes were gained by smaller groups. 
The Scottish National Party seeks independence from the rest of Britain for Scotland's 5.2 million people. The Conservatives, who have their main support in southern England, are generally unpopu­lar in Scotland. 

AP Photo
Out of the gutf 
An unidentified Arabic demonstrator stands in front of placards in 
central London Saturday during a demonstration against British 
and American Forces in the Gulf. Thousands attended the rally. 
ChlneH-Amerlc:an Restaurent &
~~1J·GR£~Yf 
Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at----$3.95 Dinners starting at----$5.45 Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.. Thuro. 11:30Lm.to 10p.m. Fri.· Sat.11:30Lm.1o 11 p.m. Sun. & Holida~ 11:30 Lm. to 10p.m. 130 Dixie W•y S., South Bend (next to RandaH's Inn) 
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL EXTRAVAGANZA 
BIG FOUR CLASSIC, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1st AT THE HOOSIER DOME I INDIANAPOLIS GAME #1 INDIANA VS. LOUISVILLE & GAME #2 NOTRE DAME VS. KENTUCKY 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS INVITES ALL ALUMNI, FRIEND AND VISITORS TO A POST GAME RECEPTION AND VICTORY PARTY AFTER THE GAME. FREE ADMISSION**EXHIBIT HALL B IN CONVENTION CENTER (ADJACENT TO DOME) *****CASH BAR/ REFRESHMENT***** 
FIGHTING IRISH VS. THE BULLDOGS 
CONTINUE YOUR HOOPS FUN BY JOINING ALUMNI AND FRIENDS ON MONDAY DECEMBER 3rd AT ST. THOMAS ACQUINAS SCHOOL GYM FOR A "PRE" AND "POST" GAME RECEPTION PRIOR TO THE GAME BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH''VS. THE BUTLER UNIVERSITY "BULLDOGS" AT HINKLE FIELDHOUSE. FRtE ADMISSION MONDAY, DECEMBER 3rd**6:00 PM AND IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE GAME ST. THOMAS ACQUINAS SCHOOU46th AND ILLINOIS STREET SANDWICHES, SOFT DRINKS** PARK AND RIDE (TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED TO AND FROM GAME ON BUS) 
THE HOLIDAY SEASON IS JUST AROUND 
AND SO IS CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD '90. 
BE A PART OF THE CELEBRATION AT LAFORTUNE: MONDAY, DECEMBER 3 THROUGH FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 
FIRESIDE CHATS: LOUNGE STUDY BREAKS: LOBBY 
(hif{i/i!Jtr-,{fVeiltnncli!!!!__ ~ .SMI!::J 
'7JJ';). ~ ';). jJ' Jt)1"b ~ 
THE CORNER, 
Holiday traditions celebrated 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN ·News Writer 
The diversity of the Notre Dame student body will be cele­brated next week as individuals from different cultures share their holiday traditions in "Christmas Around the World." 
Under the guidance of Karen Leonard, assistant director of students have planned a week of festive activities. 
Each day from Dec. 3-7, a "fire-side chat" will take place from 12-1 p.m. in the interna­tional student lounge in LaFortune. A round-table dis­cussion of holiday customs with a specified nationality for each day is planned, according to Leonard. 
Between 8-10 p.m. Monday through Wednesday nights. desserts from various national­ities will be offered as a study break in LaFortune. Musical groups, such as the Glee Club, will provide entertainment, said Leonard. 
On Thursday, a Christmas Tree decorating party is planned. The Christmas tree in LaFortune will feature various cultural decorations. Refreshments will be offered and Leonard hopes that some holiday carolling will take place outside LaFortune near Stonehenge. 
The conclusion of "Christmas Around the World" will be cele­brated with an Open House in the lobby of LaFortune begin­ning at 1p.m. The main attrac­tion will feature pictures with Santa. 
Leonard would like "Christmas Around the World" to be a holiday tradition at Notre Dame. According to Leonard, this will depend upon the cooperation and participa­tion of the students. 
Correction 
A caption under a photo on page 5 of Thursday's Observer was incorrect. Chicago actress Lisa Marie Wagner was per­forming in "Haunted by God: The Life of Dorothy Day", not practicing. 
,,,, ,, ,,,, 
~,:,~
Give to the United Way . 
... 




The Observer Friday, November 30, 1990 
.:_-._,...:.:
-_.··. 
-1'·-:·.:. .•-..... 
.. .~ .. ':·. 
-~'· 
..-...... 
-~.... 
' 
··'
,• 

TEAM RECORD Colorado 10·1·1 Miami 8·2 Florida 9·1 
r 
" 

Georgia Tech 9·0·1
-~ 
.
.•. BYU 1 0·1 Texas 9·1 Notre Dame 9·2 Penn State 9·2 
-~ r~:_~ ··, ~~-Houston 9·1 •. 
"r' '. Washington 9·2 
r--------------------------------------, 
I 
I I SUNDAY 
I I 
DOCBLE FEATURE 
I I I 
I Get 2small Original pizzas with the topping of your 
I $5.99 
chl>ilc for 11nh· Sj'ls__ \::alid Sunda1·s only. 
NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
r--------------------------------------,
:  EARLY  
I  
:  WEEK SPECIAL  
:I  $4.99  
I  Get !large Original pizza with your favorite  
topping for only $4.99 Valid Mondays &Tuesdays only.  

NEXT OPPONENT Notre Dame (1·1) San Diego State Florida State Georgia Hawaii Texas A&M Colorado ( 1 ·1 ) Florida St ( 12·28) Arizona St (12·2) Iowa (1·1) 
Ir--------------------------------------, I 2 Large Pizzas
I 
I I I 

I 1Topping 
I $10.95 I Get 2 Large Original Pizzas with the topping of your choice. 
• 

.. 

• hplrf\ 12131/110
~ hpirr(o lltllNl1 • E'P"" 12/llf\l<l 
:!) 
:!) 
Vall(l 3f p;Jr11CtJ).ltlllQ slofH ontv No!: vahd With any orhef otters PriCes may vary Customer pays 
s.ms tax \'there applable ~ry arm ltnuted to ensure ute drMng Our dnvet'1 wry Ins '.'a~~~~~ ~~~~-:~~~;~~~o~~~P on~"~~~~ ~~~~s'"~:~~:e& t~t=e~te ~:~~~ama~uv/~tV~~~~;~~s
tNn S20 00 Our drrvers are not per\lkled tor lite cleltvtr.es Va~~e~' fa!~~~~~:;~~P~:~~~~ on~hv~~ ~~~~~v~:~~~7~~~~~~~~e~:te PJr~~~rr~aOu~a~~we~~s~~~:S~ys
than $20 00 Our dnvtrs are not penallltd lor late dellveues 
than S20 00 Our dnvers are nO! penalrzed for late defJVerres 
--------------------------------------~ 
Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 183bmthBend.\re 289-0033 81b .\re. 
•r.--o. "--. ,;-,... -• ~ •.,..,-• # • • • • • • f. • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4o • •.. ~·--...:_·_-_·_:_-_-_-_-_._-_-_-_-_-_ -------·----------·-·-·---,:__ ----• -.------:=--.-=::;' ::-::.:=-=~=-----::_-----=----=------:_~---_-:__ ------:._r
P­

Friday, November 30, 1990 
The Observer 
U.S.S.R. 
continued from page 1 
an ally. Soviets still remember this time, he said. 
This generation is also very well educated. he added, with 65 percent of the population having high school diplomas, especially in subjects such as Math, Science and Russian lit­erature, which tie them to the West. 
In school, they are taught Marxism and Leninism, which are by nature very idealistic. When the Russian people com­pare the present reality with the ideal, the reality falls below their expectations, said Hough. This leads them to doubt the system's validity and possibly to look to the West. 
The second factor driving the Soviets to reintegrate with Europe is an economic one. Marx predicted that depres­sions would befall the capitalist world and the system would eventually fail. This never hap­pened. Soviets see the current success of Japan and South Korea, and want the Soviet Union to be more economically successful. To do this they feel the need to get involved with other countries and use some free market principles, he said. 
The third factor is Gee­strategic. Hough noted an im­portant change in world politics post WWII. Hough said that since 1940, Russia has un­dergone an evolutionary change in Russian views of the West. Russia stopped being threatened by the Western presence. In addition, the Russian desire. to expand disappeared because colonies were expensive, not very productive, and detrimental to the overall economy of the country. 
The current Russian fear of the future is China and India, according to Hough. Russia does not want to be surrounded on either side by a billion peo­ple without any allies. "This is the reason things are so durable in the USSR right now. This is why they are willing to pay such a large price for their integration into Europe," he said. This large price is the freedom for satellite countries like Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 
"Furthermore, Gorbachev probably looks upon Saddam Hussein as a gift. A way he can prove his loyalty and gain per­manent membership into the Western club," said Hough. 
Hough sees the process of in­tegration occurring in stages. 
"Russia will not become England in a few years," he said. Hough said that the United States is already a mili­tary alliance with the USSR, but is keeping-it quiet so that the American public can slowly be­come accustomed to the idea. Hough joked, "They don't want to frighten Jesse Helms too much." 
Intellectual and cultural inte­gration has already occurred in many ways in the Soviet Union, according to Hough. For ex­ample, the Russian youth have been dubbed the 'blue-jean' generation and enjoy listening to rock-n-roll. Economic inte­gration will occur soon, also, added Hough. He anticipated that Russia will establish a sys­tem of exports in a year or two. He also anticipated that they have a very "skilled work force." 
Hough predicted that the reintegration would occur un­der an authoritative govern­ment, not a democratic one. He added that Gorbachev will probably be the leader to ac­complish this "feat" of reinte­gration into Europe. 
In the changing role of Russia on the world scene, Hough pre­dicted many implications for the United States. The United States should continue to 
page 7 


AP Photo

Going home 
On foot and in trucks, Yemani citizens transport their posses· sions across a checkpoint on the Saudi Arabia border. Over 700,000 Yemanis have crossed the Harad checkpoint since they were forced to leave Saudi Arabia two months ago. 
strengthen its bonds with the Russia will be a stronger ally. USSR over the next five to ten Likewise, Hough said that we years, according to Hough. should try to integrate Japan Furthermore, he said that we and Latin America into this should not support the break­Western Alliance in order to up of the USSR into satellite compensate for the changes oc­republics like Georgia or the curring on the world political Ukraine, because a unified scene. 

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
Accidental Death of an Anarchist 
An outrageous satirical comedy by Dario Fo 
Adapted by Richard Nelson 
Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, December 5-8:10p.m Thursday, December 6-8:10p.m. Friday, December 7-8:10p.m. Saturday, December 8-8:10p.m. Sunday, December 9-3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $7.00 Students/Senior Citizens: $5.00 (Wed., Thu. and Sun.) 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Ticket Office 
MasterCardNisa orders call 
239-8128 
Groups call 239-5956 
, TODA YS MOST INTENSE 
BIOETHICAL CONFLICT A LECTURE BY FR. JAMES BURTCHAELL, CSC SPONSORED BY THE BIOLOGY CLUB 
..., "' ' 
FR. JAMES BURTCHAELL 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3 
7:00 PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Friday, November 30, 1990

page 8 The Observer 
Germany sends aid to U.S.S.R. 
l 
BERLIN (AP) -More than 40 television network said in a Bild newspaper. Below the years after Moscow tried to campaign for private donations. headline were pictures of starve West Berlin into submis­Although Germans routinely prominent Germans explaining sion, Germany said today it rush to the aid of victims of their reasons for contributing I would help ward off hunger in natural disasters and other money to the Bild campaign. 
.t the Soviet Union by donating emergencies, the current wave The state of Lower Saxony huge food reserves built up of support is unprecedented. pledged help totaling $5 because of the infamous Companies are contributing million, while the Maltese aid blockade. goods and services. German organization said it was 
A daily airlift of supplies and businesses and ordinary sending field kitchens to cook tens of thousands of food citizens pledged more than $4 meals for needy Ukrainians. packages sent by CARE, the million in donations during a international relief 45-minute telethon on ZDF, the Even before the latest actions, organization, will also aid the network said late Thursday. Germany had promised the crippled Communist nation, as Newspapers are running their Soviets $19.5 billion in financial part of a large-scale assistance own donation campaigns, and aid this year alone. 
AP Photo 

program. the money is still flowing to 
Moving out 
"The situation in the country various organizations. Pictures of food being loaded 
Vermont National Guardsman Larry and his Susie during family
is catastrophic. People have to "A Heart for Russia-We're for the Soviet Union are daily 
orientation at Camp Johnson Wednesday. The 131 st Engineering
fight for food. People already Taking Part," read the headline fare in the German news 
Company will move out Sunday morning to Fort Devens in
are going hungry," the ZDF today in the mass-circulation media. 
Massachusetts. 



·.... ·.. . roundtrip
·.·,,atrfares on ~Northwest Airlines. 
Only for studentAmerican Express®Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. card, valid through January 1991 on all Keep in mind that our Automatic 
Then get ready to take off In search of Northwest and Northwest Airlink Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
adventure, action-or just simply to Flights. (This discount is not applicable you to become a Cardmember now, as a 
escape. to the $118 student certificates and student, than it will ever be again. 
American Express and Northwest other certificates, promotions or special And remember that as a Card­Airlines have arranged these extraordi­status airfares) member you'll enjoy all the exceptional nary travel privileges on Northwest­• 2,500 BONUS MILES TO\l(;'t\RDS FREE benefits and personal service you exclusively for student Cardmembers: TRAVEL-when you enroll in Northwest's would expect from American Express. 
• 
CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. So pick up the phone. Apply for the PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER Card. And start packing! TICKETS-to many ofthe more than 180 IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. cities in the 48 contiguous United States Just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­served by Northwest. Each certificate is AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your good for a six-month period, and they application and begin to process it will arrive in four to six weeks after immediately (If you have your banking you receive the Card.* information handy, like your account 

• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT­number and bank address, it will help 


.\lembership lias Its Pril'ileges®

., 
with your own personalized discount speed the process) 

APPLY TODAY 
NORTHWEST 

~~ . 
AIRLINES

1-800-942-AMEX 
Automatic Acceptance makes it easier to get the Card now. 
'.I 
"Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non·refundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not always be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed wuhin 60 day; of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published rouungs. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago (SS.QQ), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call 1·800·9-i2·AMEX. © 1990 American Express Travel Related Services Compan); Inc 


THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
~­

Viewpoint
Friday, November 30 , 1990 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Edltor.••••..•.....•.....••.. Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor •...••..•.•.•••Michelle Dall 
Sports Editor ·············-······Greg Guffey Accent Edltor••.••••••...•••.•Colleen Cronin Photo Editor •••••••••••••••••••••,•..Eric Bailey 
• Saint Mary's Editor ........Corinne Pavlis 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager .•..•.•..Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ....••..••.. Amy Eckert Production Manager •....••..•••. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr ..•. Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .••••••••••••••••.•••Dan Shinnick Controller......••..•..••••••.••. Chris Anderson Art Director.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the· 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL ND must combat class shortage 
Registering for classes this.semester has been similar to spinning a roulette wheel for many College of Arts and Letters students: if they land on the right call number they might end up With a course they want to take. Unfortunately, the stakes in this game are high, and in our opinion, not nearly enough students are winning. 
It is ludicrous that second-semester seniors should still find it difficult to fill their schedules. It is also un­fair that underclassmen should be forced to wait until they are seniors to take classes which truly interest the{Il. Yet this is exactly what is happening. 
The reason for this problem is obvious, yet the members of this community who are in a position to rectiiiy the situation seem either unaware or indifferent to the effect that course shortage is having on the students. There are simply nor enough professors teaching in the College of Arts and Letters, given the increasing number of students declaring Arts and Letters majors. If juniors and seniors cannot easily select classes, then it is obvious that numbers of courses and spaces allotted within those courses are insufficient. 
Although this is not the first time the problem has arisen, the shortage is particularly serious this semester, and has left department chairmen scrambling in an effort to respond to the needs of all the students in their departments. 
The University's shortsightedness in this area is baffling and alarming, especially since the students suffer. Members of the Notre Dame community clamor for many things, from classroom buildings to hall improvements. However, none of these concerns should override the most important promise Notre Dame makes to its students: a quality education. The problems which have surfaced once again in the College of Arts and Letters prove that, at least in the case of Arts and Letters students, the University is not fulfilling this promise. 
Before this university increases its commitment to research, perhaps members of the administration should review its commitment to quality of education in all areas. It's time to change the rules of the game to enable the whole community to win. 

DOONESBURY 

Dear Editor: 
On Monday, Nov. 12, I painstakingly read the various articles on the Viewpoint page expressing disappointment about the arrangements made for the Rosa Parks visit. I must admit that initially I felt some guilt because I did play a signif­icant role in organizing the event. I realized that this could have been a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for many of us to see the Mother of the Civil Rights Movement in person. 
A few days later, however, the guilt I felt turned to disap­pointment when I went to the showing of Ms. Parks' videotape (which was advertised in The Observer two consecutive days prior to the showing). There were five people a.t this screening of Ms. Parks' speech. Two of these people were from the South Bend community, not from Notre Dame. 
After many futile attempts to find acceptable reasons for such a poor showing, curiosity got the best of me, and I de­cided to investigate the issue· further. I went to the audio visual section of the library, only to• find that this same videotape had indeed been placed on reserve by the Student Government since Nov. 14 and that it had not been checked out at all. 
Now, of course, I feel hardly any guilt about the issue at all. Although I do realize that see­ing a Civil Rights legend and 
-hearing her uplifting words firsthand does not compare to viewing a videotape, I also real­ize that efforts were made to correct a mistake. Were these efforts made in vain? Could it be that the Notre Dame community -almost 10,000 of us -missed the ad­vertisement about Ms. Parks's videotape showing? Could it be that we missed the subsequent articles about the videotape's reserve status? Could it be that we have been so bogged down with papers and tests that we just have not found the time to 
go out and view the tape? Or, could it be that we all just jumped on the bandwagon to bash those who organized the event without really caring about the issue at all? 
It would seem to me that a campus so genuinely concerned about having the opportunity to see such a proponent of justice and peace would jump at the chance to see her -whether it be on videotape or otherwise. Instead, our socially concerned Notre Dame community did nothing but jump at the chance to shout about this "hot" issue -for a couple of days, at least. 
Either we are genuinely concerned about the fact that a living legend graced us with her presence a few weeks ago or we are not. There is no in between. Indeed, the time has come to either put up or shut up, Notre Dame. 
Corey B. Collins Grace Hall President, NDISMC NMCP Nov. 27. 1990 

GARAY TRUDEAU 
510, ITAt.SO

A t<J4R IN THe MI0-13A5T 
' .
,¥CANS~

lrltM/5 .4tJ05 lOa/!? UI4Y 
He who has cares has brandy, 
MU-{)18.

OF tlf£ A5 W/5 /(}./(¥(/IT.' A (..(!AI( MCAN51A/tUAU8t 
too."

PR!VIN6 POMESTittoMWJLJS /,()/THIN A /rlONTH I 
Wilhelm Busch 
QUOTE OF THE DAY· 

\(·I 
l·~ 
' 
·~ 
'( 
'!.'I 
·l .' 
:,I 
·._~ 
. I 

NOV~ 30 • DEC ...2 
weekend calendar 
f~(&iy 
MUSIC . 
Pre-earthquake Party, featuring Big Shot, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Fiesta! featuring Carpacho & his Super Combo. Theodore's, 9 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. 
Bone Forest, Club 23, 10 p.m.-2 a.m. 
Vienna Boys Choir Concert, Morris Civic Auditorium, 7:30p.m. 
Apple Hill Chamber Players, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $8, $6. 
THEATER "Rosencrantz and Gildenstern are Dead,"Lab Theater, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Doors open at 7:40p.m. 
ART Jack Appleton, Paintings &Prints of the Notre Dame Campus, Century Center Galleria, 5 -7 p.m. 
sa~rday 
\ 
MUSIC 
Pre-earthquake Party, featuring Big Shot, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
New Earth Blues, Club 23, 10 p.m.-2 a.m. 
THEATER 
• "Rosencrantz and Glldenstern are Dead,"Lab Theater, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Doors open at 7:40p.m. 
ART Jack Appleton, Paintings & Prints of the Notre Dame Campus, Century Center Galleria, 3 -7 p.m. 
DANCE Christopher's Christmas, featuring the Patchwork Dance Company, O'Laughlin Audltori_um, 7 p.m. 
MUSIC Craig Cramer, Faculty Organ Recital, Sacred Heart Church, 9 p.m. 
DANCE Christopher's Christmas, featuring the Patchwork Dance Company, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 2 p.m . 
. ~s
..,,. 
FRIDAY "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
"The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. SATURDAY 
"I'm Gonna Git You Sucka,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m . 
"The Cook, the Thief, His Wife &Her Lover," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. 
r 


Costner's epic work on ~] 
with Wolves' deserves ar 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
n his latest film, "Dances With Wolves," Kevin Costner directs, co-produces and stars in a frontier epic that 
features  a  cast  of  
thousands-thousands  of  
buffalo, that is.  

The narrowing American frontier of the 1860s is the set­ting for "Dances With Wolves," a three-hour epic that examines the relationship between Native Americans and white settlers. Costner's skill as a director and his treatment of the subject matter is worthy of praise and hopefully an Academy Award. 
Costner stars as Lieutenant John Dunbar, a· Union soldier who is reassigned as a reward for an act of heroism. Dunbar chooses a post on the Western frontier because he wants to experience it before it vanishes forever. 
When Dunbar arrives at Fort Sedgewick, he finds that the post has been abandoned. He spends most of his time writing his reflections in a journal and befriending a wolf he names Two Socks. 
It isn't long before Dunb~r·s neighbors, a tribe of Sioux, <Hs­cover his presence and begin visiting him in order to find out how many more white settlers will be arriving. The first con­tact between Dunbar and tne Sioux is complicated by the fact that neither Dunbar nor the Sioux understand each other's language. 
The tribe's holy man, Kicking Bird (Graham GreeneL and warrior Wind In His Hair (Rodney A. Grant) have differ­ing opinions on how to handle their new neighbor. Wind In His Hair goes out of his way to prove that he~ is not frightened by Dunbar, while Kicking Bird prefers to deal with Dunbar on a more diplomatic level. 
When Dunbar decides to pay a visit to his neighbors, he meets Stands With a Fist (Mary McDonnell), a white woman who was adopted into the Sioux tribe as a child. Stands With A film are just as flesh-and-blood Fist is the only member of the as Costner and McDonnell. The tribe who can speak English, film wisely avoids portraying although ~~~ is quite hesitant to the individual 11'\flmbers of the do so. tribe as two-dimensional char­


The relationship between acters. Dunbar and Stands With A Fist strengthens as Dunbar becomes The actors also use the Sioux assimilated into the Sioux tribe. tribe's Lakota language, which Eventually Dunbar has to is translated on screen with decide between two very English subtitles. There are no distinct worlds: the Sioux cui-stereotypical Indians speaking ture and his own white culture. broken English for the benefit 
One of the many strong points of the viewers in this film. and of this film is the honest it is refreshing to see. portrayal of the Native Ameri-In addition to the sensitive cans. Kicking Bird. Wind In His portrayal of the conflict be-Hair and many other cast tween white settlers and Native members are played by Native Americans, the frontier setting American actors. is memorable, and Costner's di-
The Native Americans in this recting breathtakingly captures 
page 11 

)·ances Oscar 

olf he names Two Socks (below). 
the expanse of the American 
West 
One of the most visually 
stunning sequences involves the 
pursuit of a herd of buffalo. 
John Barry's musical score in­
tensifies the drama of the buf­
falo hunt, and the audience will 
carry with them the image of 
thousands of buffalo thundering 
a'rross the prairie long after the 
film is over. 
The audience will walk away from the theater with many memorable images after view­ing "Dances With Wolves," and hopefully Costner will walk away with an Oscar for what is truly one of the best films of 1990. 



w 

Ives sings this and .all the clas­night, and double doses of this There is only one special
Marc Johnson 
S 
sic songs on this production, character are recommended. worthy of mention on ABC, and To Be Continued... and "Silver and Gold" is better it will only be mentioned \o any current Top 40 hit. The Is­"The Night Before Christmas" state that it is not worth the ink land of Misfit toys and' an elfin is really one of the worst pro­this article is printed on. New tudents at Notre dentist add a quirky dimension ductions of the season. This plot 
Kids have a Christmas special.Dame know to this excellent Christmas spe­revolves around a really but for those who actually care, Christmas is coming cial. annoying mouse who wrote an 
it will be shown Dec. 14 at 9 when their "Garfield's Christmas" airs at editorial discrediting Santa p.m. on Channel 28. 
roommates suddenly 8 p.m. on Dec. 7 on channel 22, Claus. Santa then punishes a become obsessed with their followed by "The Claymation whole town of innocent children grades and the temperature Christmas" at 8:30. These two by threatening to boycott them. NBC was also a disappoint­drops to below absolute zero in specials are of more modern It would take a miracle to save ment this season, as the only this arctic wilderness we call origin, and they deservedly do them. Will it happen? Don't animated special they will air 
South Bend. not have the following enjoyed bother to find out. will be "Mickey's Christmas 
The cure for these two signs by the older classics. "Frosty the ·snowman" airs at Carol" on Dec. 19 at 8 p.m. may be the third sign of The quality of "Garfield" has 8 p.m. and will be followed by The Christmas special junkie Christmas' arrival-Christmas steadily declined, and while the "A Charlie Brown Christmas" at will note that the single great-specials! Claymation special has incredi­8:30 p.m. on Dec. 19 on Chan-est animated production of all 
When viewing the classic ble animation, the stories are net 22. This program has a very time does not appear on this Christmas specials this holiday rather dull. These shows are strong moral message. but list. Sadly, the Dr. Seuss' Grincl1 season, WSBT (Channel 22) has still better than studying, and never preaches to the viewer. will-be shown on cable. "The the definite edge. One of the Christmas is just too powerful "A Charlie Brown Christmas" Year Without A Santa Claus" highlights of their holiday pro­an attraction to ignore. , provides the most memorable also will not be featured on any gramming schedule is "Rudolph Dec. 8 features "The Bugs scene of the holiday season station. th'e Red-Nosed Reindeer." Bunny Christmas Special" on when Chuck chooses the sickly Hopefully, these absences will 
This program will be shown Channel 22 at 8 p.m .. and 'The natural tree over the jungle of not diminish the enjoyment of 
on Friday, Dec. 14, at 8 p.m., Night Before Christmas" at metal trees. the other programs, and hope-and it initially catches the 8:30. Bugs Bunny is a classic Charlie Brown really is a drip, fully the presence of this spe­viewer's ear with the melodious whether or not he appears on a but we love the guy, even if only cials will not" diminish the strains of its theme song. Burl Saturday morning or Saturday for his wacky hair. scores of exams. 


pr w 
Fatnous 'Rolling Stone' tnagazine's photos to be displayed at Theodore's 
T 
-. 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN the prize in a contest to be held Accent Writer next week during this exhibit. Rolling Stone's unique style of he "Stones" are photography has played a ma­
coming to the Notre jor role in the coverage of con­Dame campus. temporary pop culture since No, not "Stones" founder. publisher and editor 
the group, but Jan Wenner began the "Stones" as in Rolling Stone magazine in 1967. The Magazine. From Dec. 3 to Dec. magazine's photo journalism 5, Maxwell House Coffee will was applauded in 1988 when it sponsor an encore presentation received the National Magazine of "Rolling Stone: The Pho­Award for excellence in pho­tographs." tography. 
Notre Dame is one of the 25 Laurie Kratochvil, Rolling colleges where this exhibit will Stone's award-winning photo visit this year. Classic photos of director, chose the photographs Madonna, Eddie Murphy, Bob for the book and the exhibit Dylan. Jack Nicholson, Prince, tour. According to Ray Viault, the Grateful Dead and Mick Vice President of the Jagger are among the more Kraft/General Foods Corpora­than 50 reproductions taken tion, president of the Maxwell from the pages of Rolling Stone House Coffee division, "Coffee Magazine. This tour will allow houses and music have histori­students "'to have a colorful look cally been linked as a major at many of the most popular center of activity on campus. celebrities of today. "When we heard about 
The photos sel~cted for the Rolling Stone's plans to present exhibit ago are excerpted from a traveling exhibit targeted to a collection of 150. photos pub­college campuses. it presented college students, music, and dents." lished in the hardcover book Maxwell House with an excel­coffee houses. The association "Rolling Stones: The Pho­

"Rolling Stone: The Pho­lent opportunity to reach the with Rolling Stone contempo­tographs" will be featured at tographs" by Simon and Schus­college market, reinforcing the rizes the coffee house image to Theodore's Dec. 3-5 from 10 ter. A copy of this book will be historical relationship between appeal to today's college stu-a.m. to 6 p.m. 

.. 

. ' 

The Observer Friday, November 30, 1990
page 12 
Bringing Christ into the Night Country 
Night Country, established the asked on his deathbed if he wasStanding on the corner of Church as a kingdom of light, prepared for the next world. He
Manhattan's 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue, in the heart of 
Father Robert Griffin and places us all under orders answered: "One world at a Hell's Kitchen, as the light be­to let our lights shine before time." Here's a clue for every men. Christian trapped in the Night
gins to fall on a gray November Letters to a Lonely God . · Country: "One world at a
day, you don't have to be a neu­Hemingway wrote: "I know rotic to understand~ what's that the night is not the same time," meaning that heaven can meant by "The Night Country." growing gloom. a great deal of ice with Him. So as the day: that all things are wait. Once you discover the Night "So little cause for carolings/ I'd not knock any fundamental­different, that the things of the If we go home to God empty­
Country, you realize that it's a Of such ecstatic sound/ Was ist who relies on faith without night cannot be explained in the handed, expecting Him to anes­country of the soul that-you written on terrestrial works for his soul's salvation; day, because they do not exist, thetize our wounds with unde­can't walk away from. To put it things/Afar or nigh around,/ but doesn't Paul say that and the night can be a dreadful served bliss, we should be em­in another way, you realize that That I could think there trem­though I have all faith, so that I time for lonely people once barrassed at underestimating the Night Country is a moveable bled through/ His happy good­could move mountains, and their loneliness has started. If our own worth as human be­
ings created in the divine im­feast that will continue as long night air/ Some blessed Hope. have not charity, I am nothing? people bring so much courage 

as the darkness can reach you. Wereof he knew/ And I was As one well-acquainted with to this world that the world has age. Did He not create us as 
lovers with a passion for the in­

At death, of course, when unaware." the Night Country, I shiver at to kill them to bread them, so 
finite? "I am all at once whatthere may seem to be no place The "blessed Hope" one the honesty of the old hymn: of ·course it kills them. 

Christ is, since he was what Ileft but the Night Country, you should cling to as a Christina "Change and decay in all "The world breaks everyone and afterwards many are am, and/ This Jack, joke, poorwill be able, you hope, to escape should not come principally around I see." But is life given potsherd, patch, matchwood,

the darkness that's been wait­from a reliance on a religion to us as a daisy chain, so that strong at the broken places. ing for you all your life, in the that promises pie-in-the-sky­fickle-fingered Fate can pluck but those that will not break it immortal diamond,/ Is immor­
blessed Nirvana of the grave. bye-and-bye; nor should it rest the petals out of our hands one kills. It kills the very good and tal diamond." Thomas Hardy, the English notable on some holy expecta­after another, until there's the very gentle and the very Why should I pity myself as a victim of the school of hard
poet, seems to have pitched his tion of trading Earth's cross nothing left to the daisies but brave impartially. If you are
• tent in some darkling plain of for a starry crown up where the eyes? none of these you can be sure it knocks when, with the help of the Night Country. "I leaned the sun shines ever. Is heaven a place where our will kill you too but there will God's grace, I have it within my upon a coppice gate/ When _The Bible promises that the daisies get their petals back for be no special hurry." grasp to become a saint filled 
with love that death has noFrost was spectre-gray/ And Lord God will swallow up death all eternity? Is God's love for us The Night Country is no re­dominion Qver?

Winter's dregs made desolate/ in victory, and will wipe away a game He plays: breaking our spector of persons: Christians The weakening ege of day J The tears from all faces, but there hearts here. so He can mend are as victimized by the dark­The Word was made flesh, 
and dwelt amongst us. He could

tangled bine-stems scored the is another promise that doesn't them hereafter? ness as the cynics who live sky/ Like springs of broken leave Christians merely as bene­If you believe in God, you without hope of pie-in-sky. have saved us, if He had 
wished, from the humiliationslyres/And all mankind that ficiaries of the divine compas­should be able to figure out Christ our Lord, entering the 

heart of darkness, became a we face in the Night Country.
haunted nighV had sought their sion: "And now abideth faith, that there's more to life than 
man of sorrows acquainted But how could He have entitled
household fires." hope, and love, these three: but the bruising we take in the with grief, but when He turned us to be called the children of
The Norton Anthology tells us the greatest of these is love." Night Country. Otherwise, that this poem, dated Dec. 31, Pie-in-the-sky and crowns to you're reduced to the conclu­His suffering into a lovll story, God, unless our love for Him 
made our souls untouchable, as

1900, the last day of the 19th replace crosses may be precious sion that God created His chil­the Prince of Darkness couldn't 
-lovely with light as the burningcentury, was written as a la­in God's sweet eternity; but dren to be beggars at the gate, lay a glove on Him as the Lamb 

stars?

ment for a soldier killed in the here in the Night Country, waiting for handouts like poor of God Who taketh away the 
Lazarus. sins of the world. Not everyone who calls HimBoer War, though it is too they're junk food of the soul Lord will see God's face, Hestern to be called an elegy: "At that give religion a bad name. If Christians spend their lives Hemingway said: "The world 
once a voice arose among/ The Doesn't it cheapen grace when on a journey toward the Light, breaks everyone." Though told us. Perhaps the brightest bleak twigs overhead/ In a full­you velcro your soul with it, in must they make the whole trip Christ suffered on the cross, He saints in glory will be the ap­hearted evensong/ Of joy illim­order to attach yourself to the under cover of darkness? St. said: "Be of good cheer. I have parent also-rans who made Christ their Lord without
ited;/ An aged thrush, frail, coattails of the dying Lamb of John writes: "Christ was the overcome the world." By His gaunt, and small,/ In blast­God, expecting Him to give you true Light, which lighteth every resurrection, He prov~d that knowing it, by their attentive­
ness to losers in need of love to

beruffied plume,/ Had chosen a free ride to glory? man that comes into the Love is stronger than Death. 
survive on.

thus to fling his soul/ Upon the Faith without works may cut world." Christ, entering the Henry David Thoreau was 
• 
If you are tired of the go-to-class, study, go-to-class, study routine, 

The Observer wants you 
With the beginning of a new semester just around the corner, The Observer is looking for new faces in all departments-from Production to Sports and everything in between. If you're interested in joining the almost 200 crazy-people who have beaten the study-class-study routine, now is the perfect time. Come see us at The Observer office, 314 LaFortune, or call us at 239-5303. Join now and go crazy with us this winter. 
The Observer: The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Friday, November 30, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Women 
continued from page 20 
beat them last year, so they'll be gunning for us this time. We need to be ready for UCLA." 
McGraw anticipates an up­tempo game against the Bruins. For the Irish to be successful in that type of game, Robinson and Washington will be key in being able to handle UCLA's pressure. 
"I think we have to play really smart and really intense," Robinson said. "These teams play a lot more pressure de­fense than Evansville did." 
Stanford, the defending na­tional champion, currently is ranked sixth in the country. The Cardinal opened their season last week at Tennessee, losing 95-80. 
Seniors Trisha Stevens and Sonja Henning made the All­rae 10 team last year. Stevens, a 6-3 center, averaged 17.6 ppg and 5.9 rpg last season, and led the team with 28 points and 10 rebounds against the Volunteers. Henning, a 5-8 point guard, averaged 8.8 ppg and 6. 7 assists last season. 
The Cardinal also picked up Christy Hedgpeth, a Street and Smith's high school All­American last year, averaging 32 ppg, 12 rpg, and 6 apg for Westchester High in North Carolina. 
"Stanford is going to be very up for the game," said McGraw. "It's going to be a tough game for us to win. They have a real solid nucleus. (Stevens) is a re­ally good player. She's inside and outside ... they're really strong inside. We're going to have to pack it in on them." 
For Notre Dame to pull off the upset, outside shooting, a traditional Irish strength, will be key. 
"We've always been a good outside shooting team," said Washington. "So far, the teams we've played this year, we've had the advantage inside. Against Stanford, our outside shooting will be a factor. We know that we've got to be mak­ing shots. We can't have an off night against Stanford." 
The Irish are excited about the opportunity to play the de­fending champions. Notre Dame was excluded from last year's NCAA tournament, and McGraw thought this would be an excellent chance to prove the Irish are for real on the na­tional scene. 
"We can only win in this situ-
SPORTS BRIEFS Orange Bowl tickets sales end today. They will be on sale until 5 p.m. at Gate 10. The cost is $30.Each student can buy one by presenting a student l.D. Students must also present the I.D. in Florida. 
Irish Insanity will meet during the first intermission of tonight's hockey game at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. Plans for the SMC Christmas Bazaar will be discussed. 
NVA Ice Hockey teams can call the hockey office at 239-5227 or stop in to schedule ice time. 
Insurance deadline for NVA basketball and hockey activities is today. Schedules can be picked up at the NVA office. 
ation," said McGraw. "Just by playing them, we improve our strength of schedule, and a vic­tory would put us in the Top 20." 
"I think it will be a good challenge," said Robinson. "We have nothing to lose going in there, and it's a great opportu­nity for us to knock off a top team. Everyone's real excited about the trip." 
Both games will be broadcast locally on WHME, 103.1 FM. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be 
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 THE PITI CLUB is still trying  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP I CAN'T FIND MY GLASSES!!!!!!! and looking for them without them is not an easy task. Brown frames. Lost ­somewhere ... maybe north quad. Plase contact Paula @ 4096. Thanks.  I RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW' DAYTONA BEACH Sffg •  ~uffalo Club-Bus for x-mas Break Leaving 12/22/90, Return 1/15/91 Sign-ups-Mon. 1213., Tues. 12/4 7-9 PM in Lafortune near Info. Desk (call Dave #1424 w/Ouestions)  KNOW YOUR WINES I 'How to Judge Any Bottle :;!'~l ofWIJ_!ein1SMinutea\16 11./i I page manual, 1o y~ re-I Mlll'c/t, Invest in youreelf, ~j unct$3to: Flexor In~~ Penyton Parkway Pampa lX ~  Denise, You made it! We're going to have a great weekend. I don't know what we are going to dolor three days ALONE!! I Love You .  

to run 1ts Ctmstmas bus. If you are interested, call Chris (234-8817) or Steve (288-5869) before Mon. night, even if you have before. 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
FACULTY 
STAFF THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB IS OPEN exclusively TO YOU 1 
FRIDAY 5:00 PM-9:00 PM 
NO COVER CHARGE! 
Typing Pickup & Del1very 277-7406 
$$FOR BOOKS Used Texts bought and sold Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND ave and Howard 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 somewhere between P. W. and the lake. Please return -great sentimental value! 
••••••REWARD'"''' call Kate or Amy at 4550. 
LOST!!!!!!!! Pink Umbrella with wooden hand!• in North Dining Hall at lunchtime 11/27. I probably have your umbrella which looks similar. Please, if you have it would you call Julie at x1291 so we can trade. thx 
FOUND: a white dog, medium­sized, on 11126 in front of Law School. Very friendly. He obviously belongs to someone since he was trailing a broken rope leash. For information, call232-1994. 
LOST : a brown leather wallet -go ahead and keep the $20 dollars-just please PLEASE return it!! -no questions will be asked. My 
I.D. was of course in the wallet (so I'm sure you know who I am) but my name is Katy X2719 
Lost: One red winter coat (Eddie Bower). If you find it please call Victor at #3494. 
WATCH FOUND in LaFonune If it belonged to you, call and describe. Joe 271-1211 
LOST: Silver Watch Outside O'Shag Tuesday 11/2712:15 PLEASE call Jen #2531 
WANTED 
Earn $300 tp $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 Ext B 340 
NEED EXTRA $$ FOR CHRISTMAS? BOUNTIFUL BASKETS IS LOOKING FOR 2-3 PART-TIME WORKERS TO HELF DURING THE NEXT TWO WKS. CALL MICKEY SMITH AT 272­9776. 
I Apts/Dorms-What's the differ­ence? GET A HOUSE! 6 avail.: 4­6 BAs: Exc.Locations: Safe: Lndy; Character: 233-9947/287-3530. 
1 female needed to share a brand new condo at Oakhill! Your own bedroom/bath. Free laundry ... parking. Move in now or next semester. $250/mo. Call 288­0792. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
Do you need a roommate for next semester? !live at Indian Springs and I know we can work out a good arrange­ment. If you are interested, call Scott at 272-0403 
MARKET RESEARCH FIRM NEEDS TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS AND RECRUITERS FOR FOCUS GROUPS AND SuRVEYS. MUST HAVE EXCELLENT VERBAL COMMUNICATIONS SKILLS. EVENINGS!WKNDS. 287-7070 
Earn $500-$1500/wk part-time stuffing envelopes in your home. For free information send a long self-addressed stamped envelope to P.O. Box 4645, Dept. P139. Alburquerque NM 87196. 
Roommate wanted for next semester for two bedroom townhouse at Turtle Creek. Call Tim at 273-9254 
Need riders to L.l. tor Xmas break. Call X3725 
Band needs drummer. Call x1835 or x2008 if you fit this description. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ··~-Sf29• 
• AfvO J NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT ·~·sg6·
2 :i AtwD 1 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ·~·SfJ7• 
'NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ·~Sf24• 
~NIGHTS 
CORPUS CHRISTl 1 MUSTANG ISLAND ..~.sros· 
5 AND 7 NfCHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 1ff2• 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. 6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS. 232-1776. 
1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, I1Jrn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR TURTLE CREEK APT FROM JAN.-MAY PLEASE CALL 273-9406 OR 283-2805 
HOUSEMATES WANTED CHEAP rent, CLOSE to ND!SMC 271-9901 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 232-3616 
Female Roommate needed for Campus View Apt call Brigid #2628 
HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR. 5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE RATES. 232-1776. 
FOR SALE 
ONEWAYTIX MANCHESTER, NH TO S.B. 1/13 @$.75 X4064 
For Sale Ski Rack $50.00 TV color & remote call255-2719 
Free-standing BAR 21"Dx42"Hx"49'W 3 shelves WoodNinyl Like new. Oak Barrel Bar Lamp. 272-8236 after Spm. 
Free-standing BAR 21 "Dx42"Hx49'W 3 shelves Wood/Vinyl. Like new. Oak Barrel Bar Lamp. 272-8236 after 5pm. 
MUST SELL! 
PHOENIX plane ticket 4 X-MAS break AlT. Robin: 4-4277 
TICKETS 

~4\.,:""
ORANGE BOWL TICKETS 
CALL (800) 226-8499 

~'1r!i 
PATTitS
PERSONALS 

DO YOURSElF A FL'.VOil
-'"--_...,_-· 
ALAS-the day has come, 
there is no more waiting, 

oi~;"f~r2"f;:-$8.99-­
1
for three days there will be 

• save over $2.50 
no more busy signals -I Pr.ck 1ny two Gourmet S.ndWlch~. I The ROYAL COUPLE is now 1 two Garden Salads, plus your choice ol 1J French Fries or Onion Rint'i and ~ J
reunited!!!!!!! 

Pcxpires 12/16/90M.ini-.und•.-. I 
Cesar 
P.S. Where's Nancy? 
Anyone interested in answering a few questions for a documentary concerning reproductive rights, call x3814 by Friday. Please call, I need your participation! 
Dear Dumpy. 
Congratulations for your first letter -I guess I qualify as a true jock sniff now, huh? Looking forward to Saturday night so I can impress you again ­maybe this time you'll give me a little more than just candy! 
Frankie 

NO more days!!!! It--------~--------~Sundae I -D-AN_C_E
That's right-C.C. and D.R. together again. I 99ft I I Buy any size sundae and I We're all so glad. 
I 

receive a second one of theJ The Roomies. 1 same size for 99( 1 
L-...~---~f~~~.2.0 ..J 
Happy Birthday Elisa! 
HHHIIIII HHHHAAAALLLL!!!! HI HAL! 

Ireland Since the Union Justin Huntley McCarthy 
WAKE N' BAKEl SPRING BREAK JAMAICA/CANCUN FROM $429 SEA PRE-CYCLING 

ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE!! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE "BE A MESSAGE DAY" 

$30! 800-426-7710 
ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay on your own private yacht for only $28.50/pp/day. Special Air Fares. too!! Can Easy Sailing for details 1 (800)780-4001. 
PHILLY CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS LEAV: 12/21 RET: 1114 
PRICE$95 SIGN UP AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK: MON 12/3 7-8PM 
TUES 12/4 7-8PM 1ST COME 1ST SERVE KEVIN:289-5542 MIKE:1779 
Dear Heather, 
Hope you have a happy birthday 
and that your 
last year as a teen is a 
great one! Love, Jim 
To the 5'1 0" Italian girl from Concord, Ma. (Cindy was it?). I'm Michael or Go-Go the Penn Stater with the same birthday as you. I'd love to talk to you again call or write: 
Mike Galuza 
6857 Old Waterloo Rd. 
Baltimore, Md. 21227 
301-799-8926 
It's someone's birthday soon. Could it be someone in Carroll Hall? 
Hey Estevan. Live it up! 

MONDAY ENERGY WEEK!!!! 
Fluffchick! Happy birthday to the sweetest. best-looking, most exciting girl on campus. 
L. Ghost 

ADOPTION: If you are pregnant and can't care for a child right 
now, please consider adoption. We can pay medical expenses and help with other needs. We are two ND alumni who can't have children and have been happily married for 13 years and can offer a loving home. Please call collect 317 255-8701. 
ERD!!ERD!!ERD!! ERDI! ERD!! ERD!! GUESS WHO (HA!HA!) 
For sale VW GTI '84 for INFO. call255-2719 
DON'T MISS THIS! CAMPUS HAIRCRAFTERS CRISTMAS HAIRSHOW. MONDAY DEC.3, 
6:00 PM. SMC HAGAR PARLOR. MUSIC, MODELS, DOOR PRIZES! TONS OF FUN FOR FREE!! 
Hey homey(Estevan). 
estas listo para Sabado, pues vale mas porque vas amanecer bien crudo. Eso te lo prometo. Salud a tu 21 cumpleanos. 
Ritchie 
MONDAY SPECIAL $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES 277-1875 (Mondays Only) Sat, Dec. 1 
University 
Invitational 
Ballroom 
Dance 
South Dining Hall 
1pm-12am 
DANCE DANCE 
SMC-ND Summer School. London and Rome. Travel in Ireland, Scot., France, Ger., Switz., and Italy. Classes in Art, Business, Educ., Hist., Italian, and Sociology. Meeting at SMC Carroll Hall, 6:30pm, Dec. 4. Teachers, former students, slides, pizza, etc. 
I grant I never saw a goddess go. My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground. Be still my beating heart. Never to be wrong. Never to make promises that break It's like singing in the wind Be still my beating heart. My mistress' eyes are nothing 
like the sun. My hunger for 
her explains everything I've done. 
Be still my beating 
heart. 
Happy Birthday Allison 
The flag bearer, laundry's 
plague, ticket holder. dead 
with the alive, nice guy. 
Butch's buddy: Good luck at your interview today. I know you'll do great and get the job. I can't wait for this weekend ... Love, Whitney 
sdgf 
Rich Riley, 
I'm looking forward to this weelend! I know we're going to have a blast! But do you realistically think that I can arise and be ready to go at 7:30 am???? I hope you're having as much fun as I am. (O.K I think I took up enough space now!! !I) 
Love, 
Jeanne 
Scoreboard 

page 14 Friday, November 30, 1990 
COLLEGE RESULTS  NFL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  
TRANSACTIONS  
BASKETBALL USA BASKETBALL-Named P.J. Carleslmo coach of the U.S. team lor the 1991 World University Games. National Baeketball Aeaoclatlon MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Announced the resignation of Billy McKinney, director of player personnel. Continental Baaketball A..oclation CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER BULLETS-Signed Clarence Thorrpson, guard-forward. Waived Chris Harris, guard. FOOTBALL  EAST American Inti. 119, Westfield St. 78 Bates 109, Maine Marblme 66 BOWdoin 92, Maine-Farmington 74 Brooklyn Col. 72, Md.-E. Shore 61 Bryant 78, S. Connecticut 64 Connecticut 49, Yale 48 Cornell 53, St. Bonaventure 52 Did<inson 81, Goucher 41 FDU-Madison 72, Delaware Val. 49 Fordham 69, Seton Hall 68 Gallaudet 92, Haverford 73 Hunter 99, Kings Point 64 New Haven 96, St. Anselm 81 Roberta Wesleyan 102, Brockport St. 98, OT T ample 70, Villanova 57  AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat w L T Pet. Buffalo 9 2 0 .818 Miami 9 2 0 .818 Indianapolis 5 6 0 .455 N.Y. Jets 4 8 0 .333 New England 1 10 0 .091 Central· Cincinnati 6 5 0 .545 Houston 6 5 0 .545 Pittsburgh 6 5 0 .545 Cleveland 2 9 0 .182 Weal Kansas Crty 7 4 0 .636 LA Raiders 7 4 0 .636 Seanle 5 6 0 .455  PF 312 232 176 199 144 259 256 198 164 246 207 209  PA 177 122 230 257 305 262 216 181 300 172 174 216  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon w L Boston 11 2 Philadelphia 10 5 New York 6 7 Miami 5 9 New Jersey 5 10 Washington 4 9 Central Dlvlalon Detron 12 2 Milwaukee 10 4 Chicago 8 6 Charlotte 8 7 Cleveland 8 7 Indiana 5 9 Atlanta 4 9  Pet .846 .667 .462 .357 .333 .308 .857 .714 .571 .533 .533 .357 .308  GB 2 5 6112 7 7 2 4 4 112 4112 7 7112  LlO 8-2 8·2 5-5 3-7 4-6 3-7 9-1 7-3 7-3 6-4 6-4 2-8 1-9  Streak Won7 Wont Lost4 Wont Lost 1 Lost 1 Won9 Lost 1 Won3 Won2 Lost 1 Lost 3 Lost 8  Home 6-1 7-1 2-5 4-3 3-3 3-3 7-0 7·0 2-2 5-2 5-2 5-2 2-4  Away 5-1 3-4 4-2 1·6 2-7 1·6 5-2 3-4 6·4 3-5 3·5 0-7 2-5  Coni 8-2 9-4 3-4 4-8 3·8 3-8 10-0 8-4 3-3 7-6 7-6 3-8 1-8  
World League of American Football WLAF-Announced George Shinn has acquired the ownership rights to the Raleigh­Durham franchise. RALEIGH-DURHAM-Named Roman Gabriel general manager. HOCKEY National Hockey League ST. LOU IS BLUES-Recalled David Bruce, right wing, from Peoria of the International HOCkey League. HORSE RACING PHILADELPHIA PARK-Announced the resignation of Robert L. Bork, general manager, effective Friday. COLLEGE COLGATE-Signed Mike Foley, football  SOUTH Louisiana Tech 73, McNeese St. 64 N.C. Charlene 103, N.C.-Wilmington 69 Shorter 70, Flagler 66 Tennessee 93, Kent St. 69 WilHam & Mary 73, Army 71 MIDWEST DePaul117, Fla International 55 IlL-Chicago 71, Illinois 60 Miam, Ohio 103, Fairfield 78 Missouri 81, Florida A& M 52 SW Missouri St. 67, N. Iowa 58 Toledo 119, Prairie View 92 W. Illinois 107, Elmhurst 60 Wisconsin 72, San Francisco St. 53  San Diego 5 7 0 .417 Denver 3 8 0 .273 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eaat w L T Pet. PF x-N.Y. Giants 10 1 0 .909 Philadelphia 7 4 0 .636 Washington 6 5 0 .545 Dallas 5 7 0 .417 Phoenix 3 8 0 .273 Central Chicago 9 2 0 .818 Green Bay 6 5 0 .545 Minnesota 5 6 0 .455 Detroit 4 7 0 .384 Tarrpa Bay 4 8 0 .333 Weat San Fran 10 1 0 .909 New Orleans 5 6 0 .455 LA Rams 4 7 0 .384  234 237 PA 259 282 247 176 172 258 220 259 253 187 270 198 247  203 280 141 222 213 242 278 180 227 222 284 294 179 202 299  WESTERN CONFERENCE Midweat Dlvlalon w L San Antonio 8 4 Utah 7 6 Houston 8 7 Dallas 6 6 Minnesota 5 9 Denver 3 11 Orlando 3 11 Pacific Divlalon Portland 12 1 Phoenix 8 4 Golden State 9 6 LA lakers 7 5 LA Clippers 6 8 Seanle 4 7 Sacramento 1 12  Pet .667 .538 .533 .500 .357 .214 .214 .923 .667 .600 .583 .429 .364 .077  GB 1112 1112 2 4 6 6 3112 4 4 112 6112 7 11  LtO Streak Home 6-4 Lost 1 5-0 5-5 Won4 4-2 6-4 Lost 1 6·1 5-5 Wont 4-3 4-6 Lost 1 3-3 3-7 Won2 3-5 3-7 Lost 5 3-2 9-1 Wont 9-1 7-3 Won2 5·2· 6-4 Won 1 6-1 7-3 Won5 5-3 4-6 Lost 2 6-3 3-7 Loat3 3-4 1-9 Lost5 0-5 Saturday'• Gamea  Away 3·4 3·4 2-6 2-3 2-6 0·6 0·9 3·0 3-2 3-5 2·2 0-5 1·3 1-7  Coni 8-4 7-3 6-5 4-5 4·6 3-10 2-8 9-1 7-3 6·4 7-4 5-5 2-5 0-7  
coach, to a muHiyear contract.  Atlanta  3  8  0  .273  262  285  Chicago at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m.  
HOBART-Named Bill Maxwell football coach.  SOUTHWEST  x-ctinchedplayoff berth.  Thuraday'a  Gamea  Golden State at Miami, 7:30p.m.  
JERSEY CITY STATE-Named Renata Angioli sports Information director. WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE­Named Liz Clark women's basketball coach.  North Texas 118, Jad<son St. 115 Stephen F .Austin 78, Texas Southern 60 Texas-Arlington 154, Huston-Tillotson 85  Sunday, Dec. 2 AUanta atTarrpa Bay, 1 p.m. Cincinnati at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. Detrort at Chicago. 1 p.m  Denver 136. Sacramento 128 Phoenix 128, Seanle 110 Portland 107, Minnesota 92  Orlando at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Charlene at New York, 7:30p.m. Boston at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Detroit at Washington, 7:30p.m.  
Kansas Cny at New England, 1 p.m.  Sacramento at Houston, 8:30p.m  
Los Angeles Rams at Cleveland, 1 p.m.  Dallas at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m.  
HOW THE TOP 25 FARED How the A..oclaled Preu' top 25 teama fared Thuraday: 1. UNLV (0-0) Sat.: vs. UAB at Vancouver. 2. Arizona (f>.O). Sat.: vs. Long Beach State. 3. Arkansas (4-1) Sat.: vs. Kansas State. 4. North Carolina (2-0) Friday: vs. South  FAR WEST Air l=oroe 85, Samlord 68 Arizona St. 118, N. Arizona 77 Brigham Young 69, Weber St. 57 Butler 86, Portland 80 Montana Tech 75, Tnnny Bble 44 New Mexico St. 70, Texas-EI Paso 55 Point Lorna 87, Christian Heritage 74 San Diego 102, S. Utah 91 Santa Clara 73, Pacific U. 60 UC Davis 95, Fresno Pacific 80  Miami at Washington, 1 p.m Philadelphia at Buffalo, 1 p.m. Houston at Seanle, 4 p.m. Indianapolis at Phoenix, 4 p.m. Loa Angeles Raiders at Denver, 4 p.m. New Orleans at Dallas, 4 p.m New York Jets at San Diego, 4 p.m. Green Bay at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Monday, Dec. 3 New York Giants at San Francisco, 9 p.m.  Frlday'a Gamea Cleveland at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Washing1on at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Golden State at Orlando, 7:30p.m. Philadelphia at Detrort, 8 p.m Indiana at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. New York at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. Minnesota at Lnah, 9:30p.m.  LA C!Jlp8rs at Denver, 9:30p.m. LA Lakers at Phoenix, 9:30p.m Portland at Seanle, 10 p.m. Sunday'• Gamea MilWaukee at Indiana, 7:30p.m Minnesota at L.A C!Jlp8rs. 9 p.m. Lnah at Portland, 10 p.m.  
Carolina at Charlene.  Wyoming 101, Mo.-St. Louis 76  
5. Michigan State (1-1) Sat.: at Bowling Green.  
6. Alabama (2-0) Friday: vs. 119 Southern  
MlssissJipi at Birmingham.  
7. Syracuse (3-0) Sat.: vs. Cornell.  
8. Duke (4-1) Sat.: vs. NC-Charlone. 9. Georgetown (2-0) Sat.: vs. Southern Indiana. 10. Indiana (3-1) Sat.: vs. Louisville at the  Happy  
Hoosier Dome.  
11. Ohio State (2-0) Sat.: vs. Youngstown State. 12. UCLA (3-0) Sunday: vs. Loyola Marymount. 13. Pittsburgh (3-0) Sat.: at St. Francis, Pa. 14. Georgia Tech (2-0) Sat.: at Richmond. 15. Connecticut (3-0) beat Yale 49-48. Thursday, 12-6th, at 14 North Caronna 16. Virginia (2-1) Friday: vs. New Orleans. 17. Georgia (3-0) Sat., 12-8, at Mercer.  TOTALLY UNCUT. TOTALLY UNCENSORED. THE MOST SENSATIONAL FILM OF THE YEAR! 11EXUBERANT!"  Birthday M.K.  
18. Oklahoma (3-1) Sat.: vs. Angelo State.  -Mark Donen. VOGUE  
19. Southern Mississippi (0-0) Friday: va. 16  
Alabama at Blrrringham.  
20. LSU (1-1) Friday:vs. 122 Texas. 21. St. John's (2-0) Friday: vs. Niagara at Niagara Falls.  LOVE,  Dad,  
22. Texas (1-0) Friday: at •20 LSU. 23. Missouri (1-1) beat Florida A&M 81-52. Sat.: vs. Oregon. 24. Villanova (2-1) lost to Temple 70-57.  Mom,MaH  
Monday: at Pennsylvania. 25. Louisville (0-0) Sat.: vs. 110 Indiana at the Hoosier Dome.  andMo  
IGHT  7:1  9:45  

NHL STANDINGS  
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Dlvlalon  
w  L  T  Pte  
NY Rangers  16  7  5  37  
Philadelphia  16  10  2  34  
Washing1on  14  13  0  28  
New Jersey  13  10  2  28  
Pittsburgh  11  12  2  24  
NY Islanders  9  14  1  19  
Adem•  Dlvlalon  
Boston  14  7  4  32  
J  Montreal Hartford  12 10  11 11  3 4  27 24  
I\  Buffalo Quebec  g 4  9 18  6 5  24 13  
1  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlalon  
W  L  T  Pta  
I I  Chicago St. Louis Detroit  17 8 15 7 12 to  2 3 3  36 33 27  
I  Minnesota  5  15  6  16  
I  Toronto  5  21  1  11  
Smythe  Dlvialon  
Los Angeles  16  6  3  35  
Calgary  14  9  3  31  
Vancouver  11  12  2  24  
Winnipeg  9  15  3  21  
Edmonton  7  14  2  16  
Thursday's Games  
Late Game Not Included  
Boston 4, Edmonton 2  
Hartford 6, Pittsburgh 4  
Detrort 5, Chicago 1  
Los Angeles 4. St. Louis 4, tie  
Toronto at Vancouver, (n)  
Friday's Games  

GF 110 102 92 94 103 65 
80 78 72 75 71 
GF 90 88 93 67 74 
107 109 76 91 67 
N.Y. Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. i' 
Montreal at Washing1on, 8:05 p.mI Minnesota at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. Saturday'• Gamea Chicago at Detrort, 1 :05 p.m. 
I 
J N.Y. Rangers at Boston. 7:05p.m Edmonton at Hartford, 7:35p.m Washington at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
Buffalo at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Calgary at Montreal, 8:05p.m Pittsburgh at Minnesota, 8:35p.m
~ 
I 
New Jersey at St. Louis, 8:35p.m Toronto at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Sunday'a Gamea 

Detrort at Buffalo, 7:0S p.m ' Edmonton at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.m Calgary at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Winnipeg, 8:05 p.m. St. Louis at Chicago. 8:35p.m. 
GA 
73 86 87 83 99 89 
73 79 80 74 122 
GA 65 69 94 92 128 
78 83 85 95 71 
ADVENT & CHRISTMAS AT FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
SUNDAY OPPORTUNITIES 
8:45AM  Celebration worship Service (45 min)  
9:30AM  Refreshments in the Gathering Room  
9:50AM  "Sojourner" Sunday School Fellowship  
11:00 AM  Traditional Worship Service (1 hr)  

CHRISTMAS EVE SERVICES 
7:00PM "Family Celebration" 
11:00 PM "Candlelight Celebration" 


First United Methodist Church-333 N. Main (across from Burger King) 
WE.RE HAPPY TO PROVIDE TRANSPORTATION 
Call us during the week at 233-9463 (Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm) 
Friday, November 30, 1990 
The Observer page 15 

P H 0 T 0 G R A P H S 
Rolling Stone: The Photographs/On Exhibit at University Campuses 1990-1991 
THEODORE'S 
Monday, Dec 3 through Wednesday, Dec 5 • Open 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
andes lltf.!:L!= 
Complimentary Coffee • FREE ADMISSION Commemorative Mugs (while supplies last) 
Welcome 
page 16
11 
\~ 
li 
"I chose Ty Detmer. It was a hard choice 
for me to pick him over Ismail. I thought .. l 
the Rocket didn't touch the ball enough. If 
he's the best player in the country, he 

should touch the ball more than 126 times. Detmer's slats were impressive, 
and he had the big game against Miami." 
-Ed Sherman, Chicago Tribune 
"I voted forTy Detmer because of his 
consistency. He's such a phenomenal 
player, in there every play for BYU, 
turning something from nothing. I voted 
for Rocket second and Shawn Moore 
third. I kept coming back to this question: 
has he (Ismail) impacted his team like 
Tim Brown did? I answered no ... and 
Rocket 
continued from page 20 
cant role in this year's vote. 
"If you're gonna select an athlete for the player of the year," Holtz asks, "are you go­ing to base it on statistics? Rocket Ismail and anybody else that plays for us is not going to have great statistics. 
"When we recruited Rocket, we told him he'd probably be a wide receiver, we'll use him a lot like Tim Brown, and we'll get him the ball in a variety of different ways, but we aren't gonna make you a Heisman award winner. All we want to do is win." 
The Irish have compiled a 33­
Friday, November 30, 1990
The Observer 

What the voters are saying about the Heisman Trophy 
so I voted for Detmer. I think it will be close, though." -Keith Dunnavant, The National 
"The frontrunners are pretty clear-cut: Ty Detmer, who's set many records at BYU; Rocket Ismail, a tremendous impact player from numerous perspectives, and who definitely can change around a game, as can Detmer; and Eric Bieniemy, who has not gotten as much publicity, but has gained 1,500 yards for the number one team in the country." -sam Woolwine, Chattanooga News-Free Press 
"I voted for Bieniemy of Colorado. I've seen him play two years in a row against 
Washington. He's just been dynamite against a team which led the nation in rushing defense (65 yards per game), and Bieniemy just tore them up, gaining 165 yards this year." -Dick Rockne, Seattle nmes 
"My top vote went to Eric Bieniemy, and the primary reason was the production he was able to get in terms of the strength of schedule he faced. That's what turned me off of guys like Detmer. Rocket was second, because even though they had similar schedules in terms of strength, he simply did not touch the ball enough." -.Jeff Flanagan, Kansas City Star-Times "I voted for the Rocket, Detmer, and Shawn Moore. It seems he (Ismail) is one of the 

most exciting players in college football, and means more to his team than anyone else does for his team." -David Alfonso, Tampa Tribune 
"I voted Detmer, Klingler, and the Rocket. Yeah, Detmer plays in the WAC, a lousy league, but he showed me he was for real when he beat Miami singlehandedly. Klingler, I put him second because a lot of people got this anti-Kiingler sentiment alter throwing 11 touchdowns against Eastern Washington. My rationale is that it's not his fault, that Jenkins is diabolical ... I like the Rocket, but he didn't get the ball enough, and it was kind of my vote against the Notre Dame mystique. A lot of people said he wouldn't be in the top 10 if he didn't play for Notre Dame ... He's paying for the sins of nm Brown." -David Whitley, San Antonio Light 
"I've heard all the arguments against the Rocket. How he's the second coming of nm Brown, just another manufactured Heisman candidate out of Notre Dame .. . The Rocket has produced a kaleidoscope full of eye-popping 1990 moments." -Steve Bisheff, 
Orange County Register 


3 rNecord Din lsma~'s t_hreehyears $3.00 at otre arne, wmmng t e na-.,.-----·~~~t!~I!J~,,~~~AII srows
tiona! championship in '88. rl Before6pm 
LEARN RUSSIAN ON THE 
Ismail has embraced Holtz's CHUCKY'S BACK! 
ROCKY WI/ 

concept of team unity whole-CHILD5~5:30 II 4:45 
BLACK SEA!

heartedly, which is why he sometimes appears to avoid PI,AV 7:30 rJ starring 7:00 
IN SOCHI, RUSSIA

questions about his own talents. AI 9:30 SYLVESTER 
9:15

"When I was with the New STALLONE
2 
8 WEEK RUSSIAN LANGUAGE COURSE 
PLUS...

York Jets," Holtz says, "we had !"'~~~~~•~-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-·~~-----Ill"
to sneak Joe Namath out of the ! locker room. We have had to do $3.00 
5 DAY TOUR: JUNE 11 -AUGUST 5 that to a certain extent with All srows ~-----...... 
-OR-

Rocket Ismail. It's been very Before 6 pm 
10 DAY TOUR: JUNE 11 -AUGUST 20
difficult for Rock because he A younger feels he's J"ust an average foot-man.••A 4:45 
Thetruew 4:45 

FOR FURTHER DETAILS COME TO A
story of

bolder
ball player playing with a great woman. 
MEETING & PRESENTATION ON/NEAR YOUR CAMPUS: 
ide?tical ~ .., 7:00

7:00
group of young men, and he 
twms... 
9:30

ought to be able to talk about 
9:15 
1111 

Friday, November 30, 1990 
his teammates." 
12:30 PM-3:00PM
KRAYS~

Ismail seized the opportunity . 
LaFortune Student Center 

presented by Wednesday's 
press conference to do just that. 
Sarin Room 

When asked to list his most 
Misery
memorable moments from the 
A representative of the Ministry ol Education of the Russian Federation will be with us at the meeting. 
Based on Stephen King's Novel 
'90 season, Ismail offered 
OR CALL: 

Stonebreaker's end zone 
5:00-7:15-9:45 
DAFNA RONN-OXLEY AT TANDEM-VIRTUS LIMITED 
interception against Michigan, Zorich's sack of quarterback 
1·800-274-9121 

Todd Marinovich on the final 


play of the USC game, and any number of Mihalko's blocks on the kickoff return team. 
"People always see the glam­orous side of the media atten­tion that you get," Ismail said, "but a lot of the time it can kind of get to you. Last year, everything was kind of pushed on me and I felt overburdened with the attention." 
Media attention surrounding Ismail's Heisman candidacy has grown steadily over the past week. Questions about his fu­ture plans, in particular, pre­dominated on Wednesday. 
"My plans are definitely to come back to Notre Dame next year," Ismail says. "I haven't had any change of heart what­soever." 
"I don't think, with the excep­tion of his mother and his brother," Holtz says, "that anybody loves Rocket more than we do here in the Notre Dame family. We want what's in his best interests. Rocket didn't come here to prepare for professional football. He came here to get an education. We certainly would like to see him graduate from the University of Notre Dame." 
Friday, November 30 1990 The Observer page 17 
Men 
continued from page 20 
Hoosier Dome. 
"(The Big Four Classic) is ex­actly like the Final Four," said Phelps, noting the hysteria as­sociated with the event that will pack 40,000-plus into the Hoosier Dome for roughly five hours of basketball, first Indiana against Louisville at 2 p.m., then Notre Dame (2-3) and Kentucky (2-0) immediately following. The game will be televised by ABC, which is Channel 28 WSJV in South Bend. 
"The games are the same, the bands are the same (as the Final Four)," said Phelps. "It's a great way to get into college basketball games quick-get power games in early, which is a great experience for the kids." 
The Irish have had plenty of experience of "power games" already. To start ofT the season, the team finished fourth out of sixteen teams in the Dodge/NIT in New York. The Irish defeated Fordham and Iowa to advance to the "Final Four," only to fall to Arizona 91-61 last Wednesday and to Duke 85-77 Friday. 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
Then, Wednesday night, the Irish made a surge against the Hoosiers, getting the edge in the first half and nearly holding on to win. 
"I can't be disappointed with the way we played last night (against Indiana), but I'm dis­appointed that we lost because we had a chance to grab one, which would have given us a lot of credibility." 
The Irish have a chance for a credibility boost again against Kentucky. 
The Wildcats, a developing squad emerging out of the dol­drums of NCAA probation, are 2-0 this season after defeating Cincinnati Wednesday, 75-71. 
Last season, Kentucky hired Rick Pitino to reconstruct the team after it was devastated by 18 NCAA rules violations in 1988. He came in as head coach and salvaged a 14-14 season for the Wildcats in 1989-90, one year after the school's first losing record in 61 years. 
Pitino has had a history of restoring struggling basketball programs, having done it for Boston University (91-51 over five years), Providence (42-23 in two years, including a trip to the Final Four in 1987) and the NBA's New York Knicks (90-74 in two years). 
* 
* 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3* 8:00pm INTRODUCTION 
* 
Richard P. McBrien, Chairman, Department of Theology 
and Conference Chairman 
WELCOME Edward A. Malloy, CSC President, University of Notre Dame 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS Martin Marty Fairfax M. Cone Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago Divinity School 
Vatican II and Ecumenism 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*December 3-5, 1990 
* For information and a brochure *please call239-6691, at the 
*Center for Continuing Education 
This particular Kentucky team is led by 6-8 senior Reggie Hanson, a center averaging 
17.5 points per game and 6.0 rebounds. He's flanked by 6-9 freshman forward Jamal Mashburn (15.0 ppg, 5.5 rpg) and 6-7 junior forward John Pelphrey (11.5 ppg, 6.5 rpg). 
In the backcourt, sophomore guard Jeff Brassow averages 12 points and three rebounds per game, while junior Sean Woods has scored six points so far in the two games. 
"It's obvious that they will be the type of team that's going to shoot a lot of three's," said Phelps. "We knew that when we played them last year, and I think that's just what Rick Pitino likes to do." 
Although Kentucky leads the series 31-16, Notre Dame has beaten the Wildcats for the last two years, 80-67 at the Joyce ACC last year and 81-65 in Indianapolis two years ago. That matchup in 1988 was also in the Big Four Classic. 
"They'll mix their defenses in full court, they'll mix their de­fenses in half court," said Phelps. "So I think (our success) will be how we pick them up in the transition and how we get our own game going with our press as well as our transition when we get the ball." 
THE VATICAN II TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY CONFERENCE 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4 9:30am JUDITH MllULA BAIIEMUKA Professor of Sociology, University of Nairobi 
Vatican II and the Relationship Between Faith and Culture 
Respondents: 
Lawrence Cunningham, Professor ofTheology, University of Notre Dame 
Patrick Gaffney, CSC, Associate Professor ofAnthropology, University of Notre Dame 
1:30pm FREDRICK R. McMANUS, Professor of Canon Law The Catholic University ofAmerica 
Vatican II and Liturgical Reform 
R espondenJs: 
Eleanor Bernstein, CSJ, Director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, University of Notre Dame 
Regis Duffy, OFM, Associate Professor of Liturgy, University of Notre Dame 
4:00pm Vespers Sacred Heart Church Rt. Rev. Francis C. Gray Diocese of Nothern Indiana 
8:00pm ARCliBISIIOP MARCOS A. McGRATH, CSC, Panama Vatican II and Ministry: A Latin American Perspective 
Respondent: 
Auxiliary Bishop Richard J. Skiba, Milwaukee, WI 
Ministry: A North American Perspective 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5 9:00am HERVE LEGRAND, OP, Couvent des Dominicains, Paris 
Vatican II and the Communion ofChurches 
Respondents: 
Catherine LaCugna, Associate Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame 
Thomas E o·Meara, OP, William K. Warren, Professors ofTheology, University of Notre Dame 
Five pool records broken on first day of swim meet 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
After the first day of the National Catholic swimming and diving Championships, the meet has already exceeded all expectations. Five meet and pool records were broken by LaSalle, Notre Dame and Villanova. 
For the first time, Notre Dame leads both the men's and women's meets. The men are ahead of LaSalle 230 1/2 to 215, while the women edged ahead of last years' team champion Villanova 208 to 207. This marks the first time the Irish women have ever lead National Catholics at the end of a session. 
"The meet is faster than we realistically thought it'd be and as fast as we hoped it'd be," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "The key positions to look at are the whole field including the winners." 
The men's 500 freestyle times that won the top places in the 1987 meet were 8th, 9th and lOth tonight. LaSalle's Bill Wiebking set a 500 free pool 
WEIJNESDAY, DECEMBER 5 (cont. 
10:30 am GENERAL DISCUSSION 
11:30 am CLOSING LITURGY Sacred Heart Church Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC President Emeritus University of Notre Dame 
N.B. 
All conference sessions, 
unless otherwise noted, 
will be held at the 

University ofNotre Dame's 
Center for Continuing Education. 
The University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
~ 

and meet record in 4:30.04, over five seconds faster than his winning time from 1989. 
Notre Dame's 200 freestyle relay team broke the first meet and pool record in a winning time of 1:23.53. Junior Jim Birmingham qualified for senior nationals in the lead-ofT leg of the relay with a 50 free split of 
20.88 seconds. He· also won the 50 free in a time of 20.99, and missed the meet record by .01 second. 
Sophomore sensation Tanya Williams also recorded a meet and pool record for the Irish. Williams won the 200 individual medley and qualified for the NCAA Championship meet-to be held in March-with a time of 2:02.29. 
One of Villanova's strongest showings came in 500 freestyle. Mary Dowling and Chrisy Bridgewater placed first and second in the 500 free, Dowling set a meet and pool record, 4:55.56. 
"I'm happy with the way the women are swimming," said Villanova head coach Chuck Horton. "We get stronger each day and we're looking to con­tinue swimming as well as we are." 
LaSalle also recorded wins in the 200 Individual Medley and another meet and pool record in the 400 Medley Relay, 
3:25.13. Head Coach John Lyons is also pleased with his swimmers' performances. 
"Usually how you do on the first day sets a confidence level for the next days," said Lyons. "We're looking forward to the next couple days." 
Swimming and diving action will continue Friday and Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center, with preliminaries at 
10:30 and finals at 6:30 each day. 

EXQ~§§ P~§§ 
OF f'\OANA f'Jt."[JRP(.~TF~l· 
QUALITY PRINTING 
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND (219] 277-3355 
OFFICE SUPPLIES 
~Dr
PRIME RIB"" ~·. '·~ 
SEAFOOD i=IC[L) 
~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-992.5 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS 
Poul Catherine 
GRESK SINGLETON 
1800 INBTower 
~,IN46104 
(317) 634-9777 
lniHI in-oHio condtnon no m.ve 
llllhilintud ~ 


By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team is going west for the weekend. 
In fact, the Irish are headed to Nevada to compete in the 1990 Las Vegas Invitational, the most distinguished tournament aside from the NCAA championships. Notre Dame took seventh place at the 1989 Invitational. 
The Irish last competed in the Saint Louis Open on November 17. At that tourna­ment. senior Mark Gerardi won the 16 7 -pound division, while freshman J.J. McGrew took fourth place at 177 pounds. 
"Going to Las Vegas is always exciting, especially for the younger kids that haven't been there before," Irish Head Coach Fran McCann said. "The big thing that we're excited about is the level of competition. 12 of the Top 20 teams in the nation should be there. This is really the premier tourney; it is the biggest and most prestigious aside from the NCAAs." 
Among the notable teams ex­pected to compete are Top 10 powerhouses second-ranked Oklahoma State , number-three Nebraska , fifth-ranked Iowa State and sixth-ranked Arizona State. 
Given the fact that the 1990 Notre Dame wrestling team is comprised of four seniors, six 
Akers resigns as coach at Purdue 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Purdue football coach Fred Akers, who didn't have a win­ning season in four years, re­signed Thursday after the Boilermakers finished with a school-record nine losses. 
Athletic director George King cited declining attendance in each of Akers' four years and problems with player discipline as the reasons for a coaching change. 
"It's a sad day for us," Akers said, accompanied by his wife, Diana. "The things that were a concern to our administration 

l I 
were things that I didn't feel I could do a great deal about." Akers, however, said he was not forced to resign. 
"I have a choice. Sometimes decisions you make are very~~ difficult," he said, adding that he made up his mind on 
~ 
) 
Wednesday. 
Akers said a rape complaint filed Nov. 15 by a high school girl against quarterback Eric Hunter did not affect his deci­sion to quit. No charges have been filed against Hunter. 
"We're all going to learn sooner or later that there's nothing to that," he said. 
Under Akers, Purdue finished this season 2-9, the first time the team lost nine games in a season. He had a 12-31-1 record in four years, including a 9-23 in the Big Ten Conference. 
His best year was 1988, when the Boilermakers finished 4-7 and were sixth in the Big Ten with a 3-5 record. 
l 
King said the remaining four years of Akers' contract would be bought out. He receives a base salary that is reported to be $125,000 a year. 
Akers said he was proud of his recruiting, which was helped by a new, $9 million in­door practice facility next to Ross-Ade Stadium. 
Jl: 
"I don't think there's any
-I I question there's quite a bit more quality talent available here now than when we first started four years ago," he said. "Whoever takes over is going to have a nucleus." 

page 18 The Observer Friday, November 30, 1990 
Wrestlers hope to hit jackpot 
juniors, six sophomores and nine freshmen, one has suffi­cient cause to wonder how the youthful Irish matmen expect to fare. 
"Well, I don't expect us to get good seedings because we are. so young," McCann said. "We are talented, however, and we have to prove ourselves. 
"I fully expect Marcus Gowens to be in the top eight at 126 pounds. Mark Gerardi has a bad ankle, but he should also finish in the top eight. Gerardi is our most experienced wrestler and he placed fourth at this tournament last year. Steve King also has a chance to place high in his weight class. We are mostly sophomores, however, and we must prove ourselves." 
Gowens, a junior from Del City, Okla., whose season ex­ploits to date include a victory in his weight class at the sea­son-opening Michigan State Invitational, qualified for last year's NCAA championships. Gerardi and King also qualified for last year's NCAA champi­onships. King, meanwhile, won the 190-pound division at the Michigan State tournament, while Gerardi captured third­place at 167 pounds. 
I 
ROFFLER 
Also expected to contribute to the Irish effort are sophomore 142-pounder Jamie Boyd, se­nior lliO-pounder Todd Layton, and junior heavyweight Chuck Weaver. Boyd and Layton won their weight classes at Michigan State, while Weaver captured second-place in the heavyweight division. 
More importantly than want­ing to win every weight cate­gory, the Irish are looking to gain a world of valuable expe­rience this· weekend. 
"I certainly think and hope that this will be a confidence builder for us." McCann said. "The last three years, we have placed in the top 10 at this tournament. Last year, we were seventh. This can be a real confidence builder for us. We've been a little low key because the kids are so young. The main thing I'm looking for is im­provement." 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, the team is relatively injury­free as it readies for its showdown with destiny. 
With a little luck of the Irish, Notre Dame may be able to ·re­turn from Las Vegas with a jackpot of beneficial experience to reinvest. 

PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE ~ PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYlf SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 

IS GOD CALLING YOU TO THE CARMELITE ORDER? 
""J~J --...... _/ ....·:-:::;::~{/i})? j A 1'1 
vve ~J(f.JlWt Fv,,, 
:::r~:::: ~~~~~;~~ :.:::~R~5 
e SCHOOLS .:;:)i]NNER CITY 
-2BIAcr­
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 1317 Frontage Road • Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 • (708) 852-4536 • 
'
-
Q ACUI Regional Qualifier 8 BALL 
Monday & Tuesday December 3 & 4 
Starts at 6 p.m. in the 
Gorch Games Room 
Lafortune Student Center 
Sign up in the games' room Double Elimination $3 Entry Fee 

The ObserverfDavid Lee 

The Irish wrestling team will face some of the top teams in the country when it participates. in the Las Vegas Invitational this weekend. 
Wishing You, Damien, The Happi~st 21st BjrJhday! 

Nicole, Matt, Mom & Dad 
'i: STANLEY H. KAPlAN
J Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

12/1/90 LSAT CLASS STARTING NOW! 
page 19

Friday, November 30, 1990 The Observer 
.. 
CAMPUS CR'OSSWORD Friday 
ACROSS 33 Lagomorphs 51 Doctor played 34"-la by Robert 
7:15 & 9:45p.m. Film, "The Cook, the Thief, his Wife, 1 Plant disease 
France!" Young

5 Star in Lyra
and her Lover." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by sa Peppy
35 Taj Mahal's site 

9 Muslim crusade 
Communication & Theatre. 60 Polly, to Sawyer 
141talian lake 38 An O.K. Corral 
61 Steak order tS Indigo plant gunfighter 62 Evaluator
8 p.m. Classical Chamber Concert. Apple Hill Chamber 
16 Shelley's 39 Watchdog, 63"Dies-"
Players. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
"Adonais," e.g. perhaps 64 Seed coat 17 Frogner Park's 65 Residue
40 Part of a rifle 

8 & 10:30 p.m. Movie: "Willy Wonka." Cushing locale 66 Villainous look 
41 "Spiny plant 

Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 18 Legal wrongs 67 Asian weight 42 Soon
19 A lingua franca 8 & 10:30 p.m. Movie: "I'm Gonna Get You, Sucka." 20 Doctor in "Of 43 Singer Haggard 
DOWN

Human
Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 44 Doctor played 
Bondage" 
by Nigel Bruce 1 Doctor in 23 Click beetle 
8:10 p.m. Student p1ay: "RosenC1"antz & Guildenstern 46-up (admits, "Tristram 
24 James Herriot, 
are Dead." Washington Hall's Lab Theater. COTH for short) Shandy"
for one 2 Where Hawkeye 
LabScene Production. 47 Rouse
25 Steve and practiced49 Hawaiian-born
Woody 3 Citrus fruit 27 Rubbernecked actor 4 Screwdriver, LECTURE CIRCUIT 3t Stuyvesant had so Ulmaceous e.g.
4:30 p.m. Kenna Lectures in Mathematics, "Group one plant 5WhatTheda Representations and Geometry," Gus Lehrer, University of Baradid Sydney, Australia. Second Floor, Computing Center and 6 Legislate Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Mathematics ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7-monster 
(lizard)

Department. 
&Winglike 8 Doctor in an 29 Sinclair Lewis 46'"Be-puddled" 53 Physician's aim 

R.L.S. tale doctor Doctor-54 Quod-

MENUS 
10 Worldwide Notre Dame workers' assn. 
30 Iterate 47 "I-charmed demonstran­11 "Dr.­31 Mountain 
life .. .":Macbeth dum Experiment": climber's need 48 Greece, to 55 Poem by Byron 
Make Your Own Taco Bar 
Hawthorne 32 Level Greeks sa Soft cheese 
Vegetables Marinara 
~~:..j..:::..~ 12 Co-Nobelist in 34 "In-veritas" 49 Moons over 57 Holler
Pierson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich Literature: 1966 
38 Breathing Marcellus 59 Second after 
Quiche Lorraine 13 Colorists 
sound 52 Wading bird tee~~lll 21 Currier's 
37 Mythical hawk partner
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
39 Iraqi port 
-=+~~=-~ 22 Avid Answers to any three clues in this ..:.+::+:-+:::..! 26 Rents 43 Catty comment puzzle are available by touch-tone ~~~ 27 African tree 45 Kitchen phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each ~~..L.=..J 28 Afrikaans gadgets minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
BUT \-\OW Cf>.~ Wt. /\\'f'tt>-5£ -rnt. t>\\GI-IT'i S~C)W 0CM0!{5 \r 
'tl£ ~'\ S,c\CR\HCt: 
!\~'\ \.EP..Il~S ".' 
'i'lt.'Ll 1-\r>.'JE f.. 
W"-RM 'tl\~ll:.R .' 
·' I, 
I \Xl~\ Kt-IOW W\-\£\\1£R .~OO'K. GRAS? Of 11\E.ClLOG'< 
OR ~t.I'C.ORO~'\ I'S. Tl\t. MQi!..£ 1\I'Pr>-Ll\~G. 

Feb. 22, 1952: Veterinarians attempt the first skunk de-scenting operation. 
~liS!£ k££P5 CAUIN(n 
M£, STAN. SHf~ A 
BILL, WE 'R £

Nl C£ Ci11 RL AND AU.. 8VT, 
STICK PEoPLe· ALL

I'M J'Usr NOT AliRACfCD 
TH£ <iliRLS fiRE

TO 5 KINN'l 611RL~. 
SKII'IN Y.'

\ /
u 



• 
MOVIES! MOVIES! MOVIES! 
Friday: Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory* Cushing Auditorium 8:00 & 10:30 $2 
Saturday: I'm Gunna Git You Sucker Cushing Auditorium 8:00 & 10:30 $2 
*look for ANTOSTAL candy bars after Christmas break/ /.1 YOU COULD WIN!!! 
NEXT WEEK: 
******************** 
" 

. 
A.n eveni..f1.9 wt.th M-AyA. A:NUf:LOU 
author of 
t Know Why ~ Cn43ed 1u..... tt St.f19s ******************** 
Thut'sday, Dec. 6 Stephan Centet' 8 p.m. ti.c~ets $2 at LafOf' tune 






SportS
page 20 Friday, November 30, 1990 

Ismail may bring Heisman back home to Notre Dame 
By FRANK PASTOR Ismail, who purposely avoided even have to touch the ball in ASsociate Sports Editor the word "Heisman" throughout order to be a factor, as· Wednesday's press conference. Tennessee found out when It's a good thing Notre Dame "Hopefully, the best man will punter Joey Chapman, attempt­ing to kick away from him,
head coach Lou Holtz was on win. That'll be that." 
hand Wednesday as Raghib Holtz believes he's already shanked a 20-yard punt to set 
"Rocket" Ismail was presented found the best man. up Ricky Watters's go-ahead 
with the Walter Camp Football "Rocket had an incredible touchdown run in the fourth 
Foundation's "Player of the year as a wide receiver, as a quarter of Notre Dame's 34-29 Year" award. running back, et cetera," he victory. 
Otherwise, reporters' note­said. "But there's always a con­Statistically, Ismail has books would have been filled troversy over, 'How good is he?' amassed a total of 1, 7 26 all­with the exploits of Irish nose There isn't any controversy purpose yards in 1990, an av­
erage of 156.8 total yards per

tackle Chris Zorich, linebacker over Rocket this year. Anybody 
Michael Stonebreaker and spe­that's watched him play in game. He has two toO-yard­
cial teams "centerpiece" Ryan person would say this is a guy plus rushing games and two 
Mihalko without so much as a that not only doesn't come 100-yard-plus receiving games 
mention of the most exciting along every year, but maybe this year, and has scored six 
player in college football. every decade. touchdowns. 
Ismail, Notre Dame's multi­"If that award goes to the Ismail even may have created 
purpose offensive star, deflected outstanding athlete in the coun­a new statistic this 
praise toward his teammates, try, I don't think it can go to year-potential yardage­
coaches and family members in anybody else but Rocket while forcing Heisman voters to 
accepting the Walter Camp Ismail." consider more than just 
trophy, the first of two awards Whether he wins the Heisman statistical evidence in selecting for which he is in contention Trophy or not on Saturday, their award winner. 
this week. there can be no doubt that Factors s.uch as improved The second and most coveted Ismail already has revolution­field position due to opponents' individual award in college ized thinking in college football. unwillingness to kick to Ismail, football, the Heisman Trophy, No single player in football can the enhanced performance of will be presented Saturday at change the complexion of a Ismail's teammates with him in 
6:30 p.m. EST at New York's game so quickly or dramati­the lineup, and Notre Dame's Downtown Athletic Club. cally simply through his pres­record with Ismail out of the 
\;,, "There's nothing I can do, ence in (or out oO the lineup. lineup (0-2) may play a signifi­about going into Saturday," said The junior flanker does not see ROCKET/ page16 
Irish basketball squads face weekend road tests 
I_ 

Men will play vs. Women to visit California, Pitino's Wildcats 
challenge UCLA, Stanford 
j 
in Hoosier Dome 
By RENE FERRAN "I think we need to improve
\)

'• By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer defensively in our zone," said Assistant Sports Editor McGraw. "I think we're going to The Notre Dame women's have to play zone against UCLA.tl Scarcely having time to draw basketball team will travel to They're much bigger than we a breath after his third game the West Coast this weekend to are. We can't really match up against a top-1 0 team in six meet Pacific-1 0 powers UCLA with them." ­! days, Digger phelps was an­and Stanford. The Bruins are led by swering questions Thursday Coach Muffet McGraw's squad Rehema Stephens, a 5-11 junior about his basketball team's lat­will meet the Bruins at 10 p.m. who led the Pac-1 0 in scoring ~st power matchup, this one today and will take on the last year with 20.1 ppg. She against Kentucky on Saturday Cardinal Sunday at 5 p.m. was the leading scorer in \ in the Big Four Classic. The Irish head to California UCLA's first two games, and has 
. \ I "I think it's obvious our last fresh from an 83-65 victory a five-inch height advantage three games against Arizona, over MCC rival Evansville in the over Irish starting guards 
Duke and Indiana, you're play­season opener. Karen Robinson and Coquese ing against some of th·e best "Overall, I thought we.. played Washington. competition in the country, and well," McGraw said. "We played "We're really going to key on 
that's only going to help your really well in spurts. I thought Stephens." said McGraw. r basketball team," said Phelps, our transition game looked "We're going to try to match up whose team lost all three especially good. Our !Tian-to­with her out of the zone, andr I games, the latest Wednesday man defense was good. I was see if we can contain her a little 

night to Indiana 70-67. happy with our intensity for bit." The game with Kentucky, to most of the game.~ Notre Dame won 61-60 last 
be paired with another big­Notre Dame relied heavily on year at home, and senior for­name matchup of Louisville· its man-to-man defense to force ward Krissi Davis believes against Indiana, has been 26 turnovers against the Aces. UCLA will be shooting for re­
packaged under the billing of However, for the Irish to be venge at Pauley Pavilion. the fourth annual "Big Four successful on this road trip, "UCLA is developing into a ri­Classic" in Indianapolis's their execution in a zone will be valry for us," said Davis. "We 
crucial.

see MEN I page 17 see WOMEN I page 13 
Hockey team tries to continue win streak at home against Mercyhurst 
~-By RICH KURZ night at 7:30 at the Joyce ACC. 
The defense has been the Zadra believes that this year's Sports Writer The Lakers, 4-5, are a Division constant for the Irish so far this team has the potential to be as
.L 

III school, but that doesn't season, to the pleasure of good as the 1987-88 team. ') . Dorothy from "The Wizard of mean they're going to be a Schafer, but he wants the of­"Without a doubt, this is the
l. Oz" must have been right when walkover. fense to keep up its part of the best talent we've had since I've 
I 

t she said there's no place like Mercyhurst boasts an explo­bargain. been here," said the junior.. f• home. sive offe_nse, scoring nearly "We need to have a big night The Irish players are confi­L The Notre Dame hockey team seven goals a game. The Lakers on the power play soon," dent about their team, and 
started ofT its season by playing have three players with at least Schafer said, adding that "it's pleased with their progress. its first five games, and six of its nine goals, led by Scott Burfoot the first time we've had aine "The whole team is really
' 

first seven, on the road, who has 12 goals and 17 assists defensemen,..any. of whom can coming together well," said compiling a 1-5-1 record in the in only nine games. do the job." Marvin. 
r process. "They seem to be a pretty The last time the Irish and Schafer is also pleased with Since that time however, the good goal-scoring team," said the Lakers met was three sea­the improvement of his squad. Irish have reeled ofT wins in the Notre Dame head coach Ric sons ago, when Notre Dame
1: 

first four games of their Schafer. "They're a good won 7-3 at Mercyhurst. That ..At the beginning of the year
Ric Schafer 

.~ 
six-game homestand to even Division III team." same Irish team holds the Notre we were making some mis­their record at 5-5-1 and put The Notre Dame players The home ice advantage Dame record for most takes," he said. "But their fre­themselves in position to have aren't underestimating this hasn't hurt the Irish either, ac­consecutive wins at 14, on its quency has diminished, and their longest win streak since weekend's opponents. cording to junior Lou Zadra. way to a 27-4-2 record. we're playing better hockey. 
-I the 1987-88 season. "They're coming here looking "We started ofT (on the road) If the Irish can sweep the To do that the Irish are going for two wins," said sophomore against some of the better series with Mercyhurst, tbeir "We want to keep playing
:j 

to have to defeat Mercyhurst left wing Dan Marvin. "We have teams," he said. "Not having to ,;lx-game win streak will be the good hockey. If that happens, College tonight and tomorrow to play well." travel has helped." lonbP,st since that season, and we'll win more often than not." 
I 




