

VOL XXIII NO. 112 TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
FBI nabs Mafia boss, uncovers initiation rite 
BOSTON 1/\Pl -/\n FBI swnl'p through thrcn states on Monday nettPd New England's top organiwd crime boss, cul­minating a five-year probe in which invnstigators taped the Mafia's solemn blood initiation ritn,authoritins said. 
Tlw 113-count indictments naming 21 alleged mobsters wPrn especially significant for tlwir extnnsivl' description of the induction cPwmony, said 
U.S. Attornny General Dick Thornburgh. 
"It should lay to n~st once and for all any doubts that the Cosa Nostra is a figment of law Pnforcemnnt's imagination," Thornburgh told reporters. 
"It establishes beyond doubt thn nxistence of a secret, dan­destine opPration that takes it­snlf very seriously." 
FBI agents fanned out Mon­day ovnr Massachusetts. Hhode Island and Connecticut to ar­rest the alleged criminals on a range of charges including murder, racketeering, kidnap­ping, drug trafficking, gam­bling, obstruction of justice and witness intimidation. Fifteen of the 21 wen~ in custody Monday afternoon. 
"These thme indictments rep­resent an unprecedented as­sault on New England orga­nized crime activity," said Thornburgh, who was joined in Boston by the FBI Director William Sessions and U.S. at­torneys for the three New Eng­land states. 
Sessions said the dragnet and court-approved tapes of an in­duction ceremony in Medford in October shows the bureau's "ability to invade the inner sanctums ... with the intention to destroy them." 


The Observer/Bill Mowle 

Crazy bookstore names 
Steve Gawlik on the left and Chris Ford on the right both admire the variety of unique names for Book­store Basketball teams at Monday's tournament meeting. Gawlik's team is "Mr. Bubble and Four Other Guys Who Come in Boxes." Ford will vie for the championship on "Apocalypsie and the Four Horsemen." 
University meets needs of disabled students on individual, special basis 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
March has been designated Disabilitins /\wanmess Month by the Govnrnor's Planning Council for Pnople with Disabil­ities. 
There are 30 to 40 students with disabilities on the Notre Damn campus now, according to Eileen Kolman, associate provost and coordinator for disabled students. Because of the small number of disabled students, their problems are dealt with individually, and no ovr.rall policy is necessary, she said. 
Kolman said that although 
many of the older buildings on campus are not fully equipped for students with mobility-re­lated disabilities, "there are several halls that can accom­modate them." 
She said she knew of no un­dergraduates in wheelchairs, 


but knew of a few graduate students in wheelchairs who As renovations on the old live in Grace-O'Hara. halls occur, Heinebold said, the 
Students are sent forms after special needs of the disabled acceptance to the University, will be kept in mind. asking if they are disabled and Hegarding the difficulties have special needs, according students with mobility-related to Evelyn Heinebold, director of disabilities face at Notre Dame, student residences. Disabled Kolman said, "South Bend is students are specifically placed not a good place for winter, but in dorms that have facilities to there are basically not too accommodate them, she said. many students with disabilities 
Divorce, incomes change families 

By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
Exterrutl prPssurns. such as povnrty, divorce. and teen pregnancy, have caused serious changes in the structure and function of the /\mnriean fam­ily, according to Harriette Mc/\doo. professor of social work at Howard University. 
Her lecture titled, "Marriage: What's tlw Future?" focussed on the history, consequences and future of the two-parent Amf\rican family facing external pressures. 
McAdoo explained one of these pressures as, "increases in innation and fear of over­coming poverty." Husbands and wives must both work now, ac­cording to Mc/\doo. 
Only 18 percent of families today have mothers who stay at home with their children, she said. 
The demographic changes' within the American family have caused some serious per­sonal and public consequences. Time spent with the family has decreased sharply. 
McAdoo cited a Newsweek 
study that showed Americans 
spend one year of their lives 
searching through clutter on 



Harriette McAdoo 
their desks, seven years in the bathroom, and only seven min­utes a day with their children. 
Businesses suffer from this shift in families, also. There is evidence of "higher absences, more stress and an increase in health insurance costs," ac­cording to McAdoo. 
The shift to a dual income family has also caused dispari­ties between husbands and wives. Men are allowed to spend more time with their chHdren since they do not par­ticipate equally in household chores, she said. 
"In addition to their work days, women perform an aver­age of 22.6 hours of household chores per week as compared to seven hours performed by men," said McAdoo. 

Other pressures include di­
vorce and teenage pregnancy. McAdoo called divorce for women today "the feminization of poverty." This is supported by the fact that women's in­comes decrease and stay lower after a divorce in contrast to mens' incomes that decrease and quickly continue to in­crease. 
McAdoo stated that teenage pregnancy causes approxi­mately one third of single par­ent families. This figure is not as high as most people would believe, according to McAdoo. 
Results of various studies have showed that families "are retaining the same family val­ues," she concluded. Problems experienced by the modern family can be helped by an in­creasing number of government and local programs designed to help families cope with new pressures. 
McAdoo's lecture yesterday was the first in a series of lec­tures to be sponsored by the Program of Gender Studies at Notre Dame. 
here now." 
Kolman said that the Grounds/Maintenance depart­ment stays in touch with her of­fice and a special effort is made to clear the snow on the paths disabled students use to get to class. 
She also pointed out that a cart service is available both to students with disabilities and to students with temporary in­juries. 
Although there is no policy by which students with disabilities are given special excuses when they are unable to get to class, professors are generally very understanding, she said. 
"My experience is that all of the teachers...are quite accom­modating to it," she said. 
Students with disabilities such as blindness and deafness are also given special attention, Kolman said. For example, a deaf student in the Notre Dame Law School has an interpreter who signs the professors' lec­tures in his classes. The inter­preter was arranged through William McLean, assistant dean of law, and a local organiza­tion, Kolman said, and had to be brought in from Kankakee. 
Kolman spoke of a bill that is before Congress now, which, if passed, would require that 
see DISABLED/ page 6 

Police arraign Gonzalez on 87 counts of murder for fire 
NEW" YORK (AP) ~ The man accused of setting fire to the Happy Land social club· was arraigned·Monday on 87;counts of..murder, arid polite said be told them ''the devil got into me.'' 
Authorities began shutting other illegal clubs in re­
spf!Q,Se to New York qty;s worstfire in 79 years. . . 
The families of the 87 vic~ tims,. most of whom were Honduran or Dominican .sQ»;g!ft solacein and a governmel)t 
. was .set up to coun5el them and help make funt~.r;al. arrangements, 
Julio Gonzalez; 36., was ac­cuse(~ of setting the fire eady Sunday with $1 worth of ga­soline after arguing with a forlller girlfdend who W()fk~p at the iHegal.club. H¢ is said to have threatened to "shut this place down." 
'T got angry, the devil got into me, and I~~l the pla~e on ... Gonz(;J:~tlz told aP~ 
th . ~s; according to a ptFlice who spoke to The County Criminal Court, Gon­zalez was charged with 87 counts of murder committed during the course of arson; 87 counts of murder by de~ praved indifference to hu· man life; one count of at­tempted murder; and two counts of arson. 
He was held under a sui­cide watch at the Hikers Is· land jail, authorities said. The case was turned over to a grand jury. and Gonzalez will not be asked to enter a plea unless an indictment is issued. 
The deaths were believed to be the most ever charged to a single suspect in the continental United States. 
"He is a double animal," said Rene Mena, 63, whose son, Rene Jr., 30, died. "Here, they're going to have good food for him, a book. a movie~ In Central America, we don't do it that way." 
District Attorney Robert 
Johnsonsaid he hoped that 
if Gonzalez is convicted, he 

would get consecutive prison 
amounting to 
see FIRE I page 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Where have Notre Dame's goofs gone? 
My brother Rich was a thief. Well, not really. My Dad thinks he allowed Hich too much license during those odd years in the seventies, and that Hich stole his way John Cronin through Notre Dame­-he was a drama rna-Asst. Viewpoint Editor jor, or an art major---------­even he's not clear and he never went to a football game. Grand larceny! Imagine getting an educa­tion from ND without investing in it's tradi­tions-without so much as a blue and gold sweatshirt. 
Anyway. there were guys here in those days who seemed so eccentric. Okay, okay, I won't jive you with any reminiscences about the past-a golden past-after all, our Dome's as gold as there's was. right? Still, what about the guy who thought he was Patton. 
This bnllbottomed buck had an affinity for a recording of the movie "Patton." Every weekend, in the wee hours of the night, this student became General George S. Patton in full military attire. He had the soundtrack. the speakers, the microphone and he did a damn good impersonation. Blaring from some window in Alumni, he would bark out Patton's monologue to a "sleeping" campus. 
He went so far with the bit that he found a beat-up Army jeep-the ones you can order from the back a Holling Stone for $44-and was driven around the quads on AnTostal Wflekend. complete with a helmet, riding pants, a horsewhip, and of course a megaphone. This guy was for real. 
But wait a minute, the nuts back in those days don't stop there. There was a cool cat claiming to lead campus as their King. The guy who ran last year as King paled in comparison to his predecessor. King Kahuna was his name and in 1975 he took ND by storm. lie was a real hippie-long stringy hair, a Fu Manchu moustache, and a shell neeklaee. But of all his antics, none was as memo­rable as the rally at the Grotto. The King was carried in by his henchmen on his throne through a packed audience. As he stepped upon the altar and raised his arms two gasoline-lilled garbage cans on either side of the altar wer~ ignited and the names leapt up beside the King as he delivered his address. Needless to say, the king won the election by a landslide. So where are all these type of people at today's ND? I realize that that was then and this is now-a very conservative now, but I'm afraid that students here are going to realize only too late that it's not the evenings at Bridget's or some party at Campus View that are remembered in twenty years-it's being an individual. get­ting involved and not being afraid to do something that might be a little crazy. 

The expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Anyone interested in economics as a major is Anyone interested in working at the Collegiate welcome to the Economics Meet-Your-Major Night. Eco­Jazz Festival March 30 and 31 should eontact Barb at the nomics students and faculty will be present to answer any SUB oflice at 239-7668 or Janice at 283-2956. There will questions. The meeting will take place from 7-8 p.m. in also be a mandatory meeting Wednesday, March 28 at room 104 O'Shaughnessy. 9:00 p.m. in the SUB office in LaFortune. 
WoRLD 
A spiritual leader of two religious parties Monday Cigarette prices would rise to $5 a paek, tobaeeo appeared to hurt the Labor Party's chances of forming a advertising would be banned and minors would be barred coalition government by saying Labor had failed to keep from buying cigarettes under a proposal submitted to the Israel on the path of Judaism. Labor leaders had hoped government Monday. Everyone should have the right to a Rabbi Eliezar Menachem Schach, the spiritual mentor of smoke-free environment, said an accompanying rPport, the ultra-Orthodox Degel Hatorah and Shas parties, the first government study on smoking since 1973. Its would in his televised speech break a deadlock in efforts recommendations would give Sweden, along with Norway by the left-leaning Labor Party to form a government. and Finland, one of the world's toughest anti-smoking 
laws. 

NATIONAL 
Jesse Jackson threatened to 
Two pipe bombs exploded early Monday at the take the case for District of Columbia University of Alaska at Fairbanks and three others were statehood to the United Nations, but detonated by a military bomb squad in what the campus in the meantime Monday urged the city security director called a "a dangerous prank." No onH council to provide for electing was injured and no major damages reported, police said. "shadow" members of Congress. "It The bombs exploded at 4 a.m. and sent a metal end cap would be a last resort," Jackson said rocketing about 150 feet through a window of the Fine of appealing to the U.N. The city Arts Building about 40 feet above the ground. Other council, which was scheduled to vote shrapnel was found several hundred feet away, he said. Tuesday on a bill that would set terms of office of the The bombs went off at an ice arch in front of Rasmuson "shadow" delegation, has three times postponed a similar Library where they had been placed in holes in the arch, 
~Ih--.e--O.bse.--~~er-A-=Y:.,
---. 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff:  
Production  News  Ad Design  
Wendy Cunningham  Monica Yant  Amy Eckert  
Jeanne Blasi  Mike Owen  Laura Rossi  
Amy Leroux  Anita Covelli  
VIewpOint  Accent  Tony Paganelli  
Julie Shepherd Kathy Welsh  Paige Smoron Barbara Bryn  Sports Scott Brutocao  
Catherine Danahay  Ken Tysiac  
Systems Gilbert Gomez Deb Walker  Graphics Bradford J. Boehm  Circulation Chris Hanley  

Lu Medeiros 
· Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
•h Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
rter is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction are reserved. 
----~---~~-----------­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1990 
WEATHER 
t-orecast tor noon, 1 uesaay, Marcn :!.I. 
Lines show high temperatures. 

Pressure

®© ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 


vote in the past. "The first step for statehood is to get the the director said. election on the ballot for this year," Jackson said at a District Building news conference. "We are the cradle of democracy, but have no voting rights in Congress. It is immoral and unjust." 
Yesterday's high: 41 Yesterday's low: 29 Nation's high: 94 
(Bullhead City, Ariz) Nation's low: 1 (Yellowstone,Wy.) 
Forecast: Sunny and warmer today with a high in the upper 40s. Partly cloudy and warmer tonight with a low around 30. Becoming mostly cloudy and warmer Wednesday with a high in the low to mid 50s. 

INDIANA 
The Bureau of the Census doesn't ex­pect a cat to lill out a census form. However, the form intended for a Johnson County couple was addressed to their pet cat. Banjo. the 5-year-old cat that belongs to Steve and Carole Shanks, is listed on the mailbox, along with his owners' names. Census oflicials explain that in 1988, workers went door-to-door to identify rural route addresses such as the Shanks, and that may be how Banjo's name was placed on the form. 
John Saxon has so much faith in his 
theories of teaching mathematics that he's of­
fering his textbooks for free to multi-high 
school systems that agree to try them. If the 
system works, Saxon hopes that school offi­
cials will put in an order for more books. At 
least two Indiana school corporations have 
agreed to the deal. Fort Wayne North Side and 
Michigan City Rogers high schools are using 
the books, which emphasize learning through 
repetition and continual review. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for March 26, 1990 
Volume in shares 
116.11 Million 
NYSE Index 185.60 {t 0.15 S&P Composite 337.63 11 .41 Dow Jones Industrials 2,707.66 11 3.38 
Precious Metals 
Gold <0$23.1 0 to $365.80/ oz. 
Silver{} 10.7rt to $4.955/ oz. 

Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On March 27: 
eln 1900: Tlw London Parlinwnt passes the War Loan Act allocating 35 million pounds to Boer War. 
eln 1943: U.S. proposes Allied 
government to rule Indochina in 
place of French. 
eln 1945: Argnntina declares war on Axis. 
eln 1964: Nnw York police reveal th11 fact that the neighbors who witnessed the murder of Kitty Glm­ovese were indifferent and did nothing to help her. 
eJn 1971: UCLA wins their lifth straight NCAA basketball title. 
eln 1985: BPrnard Go!ltz is in­dicted on four eounts of attempted murder in New York. 
Tuesday, March 27, 1990 The Observer page 3 
SECURITY BEAT

Job interviews require salesmanship, gusto 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 

The importance of selling yourself in the job interview was stressed yesterday by Meg Nigro, a manpower develop­ment manager from the Ameri­can Sales Association (ASA). 
"You are selling yourself in the job interview. That is probably the most difficult sale you will ever have to make," Nigro said in her lecture titled "Sales: How to Enter the Field and be Successful." 
Nigro claimed that the ASA can help students "maximize thPir opportunities for getting 
iobs possible." They 
~"wiping to expose 
"ferent industries 
·aining and de­
ams. 

feels these pro­students in answer­he question, "How do you make yourself stand out and be 

r·············.................................................... 
Meg Nigro 

more than a piece of paper that we call a resume?" ASA helps the student answer this by go­ing through the interview pro­cess with the student. 
One tip Nigro gave for a suc­cessful interview was to provide tangible evidence with one's an­swers. She said, "You need to give the company evidence that 
you are the type of person they 
are looking for, and also to 
give them evidence that you are 
unique." 

She pointed out that the most common complaint of compa­nies comes from the students failure to follow up their inter­views. She said she believes this call can make the differ­ence between an offer or a re­jection letter. 
In her experience as an inter­viewer, Nigro rarely found any­one who asked her for a second interview. She recommended that students should show this type of initiative. "You need to show a degree of initiative no matter what job you are after," she said. 
When interviewing, Nigro did not rely heavily on a student's GPA. On the other hand, she sees a high activity level as cru­cial for success in obtaining employment in sales. 
The ASA came into existence 
eight months ago with the pur­
pose of filling the gap going 
from an undergraduate degree 
to employment in sales. The 
ASA gives people the opportu­
nity to get experience in sales 
and to distinguish themselves 
from other entry level appli­
cants. 
On May 22nd, the ASA will co­sponsor The "B.E.S.T." Oppor­tunity Job Fair at the Mc­Cormick Hotel in Chicago. One­hundred to 150 companies will be represented at the fair. 
There will not be a charge to attend the fair for those stu­dents who register through ca­reer placement or the market­ing club. During the fair, a student can interview with companies, attend career semi­nars, and attend an interview­ing skills seminar. 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club sponsored Nigro's lecture. 

Senate announces Irish Clover awards 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
The Irish Clover Award, given by the Student Senate for out­standing contribution to the Notre Dame community, will be presented to students Guy Weismantel and Melissa Smith and faculty members Victor Krebs and Peter Lombardo. 
Weismantel is presently stu­dent body treasurer, Smith is executive advisor to Student Government. Krebs is rector of Grace Hall, and Lombardo is associate professional special­ist and associate director of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
In other Senate news, the new Student Union Board Executive Council for 1990-91 was an­nounced at the Student Senate meeting Monday. 
Erin Laurelle was named board manager, Scott Harris director of programming, Tri­one Byrne director of market­ing, Beth Wittman, director of relations, and Dan Orie con­troller. 
Jim Hanley was named new Student Body Treasurer, and chose John Coffey as his assis­
tant. A member of the Multicul­tural Executive Council will sit in on Student Senate meetings next year if the Hall Presidents Council approves the proposal tomorrow. The Student Senate unanimously approved the pro­posal Monday. 
A bylaw to the Student Gov­ernment Constitution was added at the meeting, stating that when one candidate or ticket runs for election unop­posed and the time period al­lowed for the formation of write-in tickets has expired, the election committee may suspend the election and the candi­date/ticket will be declared the winner. 
i + +
• 
DART 

• COURSE EXCHANGE OPTION
. 

A new DART Course Exchange Option is now available. After you have dialed DART you Will be able to add one course (call number AAAA) in exchange for another (call number DODD), even if you have a full course load or the new course has a time conflict With the old one. You can also exchange sections of the same course. DART will check to see If the new course is open, that you meet all its requirements, and whether it conflicts w1th any other course on your schedule. The option works as follows: 
The new course does not require permission 
Enter the course you might like to drop (DODD) and the course you might like to add (AAAA) as follows DDDDAAAA * 0 #. DART will respond with the following message: 
This call number, DODD, will be dropped from your ta/11990 schedule. This call number. AAAA, will be added to your fall 1990 schedule. If you wish to cancel. press "1", if you wish to change, press "#". 
If you pressed #. and the new course is accessible to you, DART will respond w1th the follow1ng statement: 
This calf number, DODD, has been dropped from your fall 1990 schedule. 
ThiS call number. AAAA. has been added to your fall 1990 schedule. 
The new course requires permission 
Enter the course you might like to drop (DODD) and the course you might like to add (AAAA). along w1th It's permission number (NNNNNN). as follows OODOAAAA * !'lNNN~"i.Jt DART will respond with the following message: ­
•i 
This call number, DODD, will be dropped from your fa/11990 schedule. This call number. AAAA, will be added to your fa/11990 schedule. If you wish to cancel. oress "1", if you wish to change, press "#". 
If you pressed #. and the new course is accessible to you, DART will respond with the follow1ng statement. 
This call number. DODD, has been dropped from your tall 1990 schedule. 
Thts call number. AAAA. has been added to your fall 1990 schedule. 
DART CLOSED COURSES 
AS OF 7:00P.M. 3/26/90 
COURSE ID CALL# 
ENGL 399A 01 
6520 

ENGL 412A 01 6524 
ENGL 413C 01 6527 
ENGL 440 01 6529 
ENGL 450 01 6530 
ENGL 461C 01 6533 
ENGL 462B 01 6534 
ENGL 473C 01 
6537 ENGL 485C 01 
1208 ENGL 492A 01 1210 ENGL 495A 01 
6541 ENGL 495C 01 6542 MARK 231 03 1689 MARK 231 04 1690 MATH 699 01 
1827 RLST 200 06 9506 RLST 200 08 
9508 RLST 200 10 
9510 RLST 200 12 
9512 RLST 200 14 
9514 RLST 200 18 
9518 RLST 200 20 9520 RLST 200 26 9526 RLST 200 28 9528 RLST 362 04 9504 RLST 491 54 9554 RLST 491 55 
9555 RLST 491 56 9556 RLST 491 57 9557 RLST 491 58 9558 RLST 491 59 9559 RLST 491 60 9560 RLST 491 61 9561 RLST 497 62 9562 RLST 497 64 9564 RLST 497 66 9566 RLST 497 68 9568 RLST 497 69 9569 RLST 497 70 9570 RLST 497 71 9571 RLST 497 72 9572 

.................................................................. 
WEDNESDAY , MARCH 21 
10 p.m. On routine patrol of the 
JACC, Notre Dame Security found that 
the men's student locker room had been 
vandalized. Someone had knocked over 
trash cans and kicked the cover ott of a 
water fountain. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 22 
10:28 p.m. Two female students re­ported seeing a student age M/W who wore a blonde wig in the women's locker room of the Rockne Memorial. The sus­pect is approximately 5'11" tall, weighs 170 lbs, and was wearing blue sweats. 
11 :06 p.m. A Merrilville woman was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceed­ing the Posted Speed Limit. The defen­dant had been travelling 51 mph in a 30 mph zone on Notre Dame Avenue. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 23 
12:30 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported that sometime during the night someone had broken the driver's side mirror on her car while it was parked in the D-21ot. 
1:31 a.m Notre Dame Police arrested a Granger man for DWI. He was also cited for Driving While Suspended and Speeding, 49/25 on Juniper Road. The defendant was then transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
1:48 a.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a Goshen woman for DWI on Juniper Road. The defendant received addi­tional citations for Driving While Sus­pended and Speeding, 41/25. The sus­pect was transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
2:45 a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped two residents of St. Edward's Hall and a visiting student for vandalism to Univer­sity property. The students had broken one of the lights near the Sorin statue. 
1 p.m. An employee of the University reported the theft of cash from his pants pocket which had been left in an unse­cured locker in the Rockne. The theft occurred between 12:00 and 1:00 p.m. 
1:22 p.m. A resident of South Bend re­ported that her car had been struck by another vehicle while it was parked in the Morris Inn lot. The hit and run occurred sometime between g;oO a.m. and 10:30 p.m. on 3/22. 
3:40 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported receiving a phone call from an unknown person regarding the victim's car being parked in the aisle of D-2. Unknown per­son(s) had entered the vehicle and pushed it into the aisle sometime be­tween 10:30 a.m. on 3/22 and 3:20 p.m. on 3/23 . 
3:45 p.m. A faculty member reported the theft of 3 text books from his un­locked office. The vicitm's loss is esti­mated at $150.00. 
SATURDAY,MARCH24 
1:12 a.m. A California woman was cited by Notre Dame Security for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
2:19a.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a South Bend man for DWI. The defen­dant had been travelling 56 mph in a 30 mph zone on Ivy Road. He was trans­ported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
12:57 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a report of a one car acci­dent at the corner of the Juniper Road and Red West lot. No injuries were re­ported and damages were minimal. 
4:05 p.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a Niles resident for DWI. The defendant was first taken to Memorial Hospital for observation. He was later transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
4:45 p.m. A ~m Hall resident reported the theft of his duffel bag and contents from the lobby of the bookstore. His loss is estimated at $85.00. 
SUNDAY, MARCH 25 
12:50 a.m. An Illinois resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding. The defendant had been travelling 51 mph in a 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
1:27 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a Granger woman for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 42 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
2:20 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re ported the theft of cash from a des! drawer in his unlocked room. 


.----.--------------~------~~--,~--------------~--~----------~---------~------~~~----~------~~-----­

Conservatives lead in Hungary's elections 
BUDAPEST. llungary IAPl ­
A eonservative party and a een­
ter-left rival emerged Monday 
as the front-runners in llun­
gary's first democratic parlia­
nwntary dections in 43 years. 
Thn Socialist party. whieh 

ruled as the Communist Party until it r.hanged its name last year, initiated the dramatic re­forms that led to Sunday's bal­.loting but got litth~ eredit from voters. It trailed in fourth 
place. 
As dedion results triekiNI in 
Monday, the eonservativn llun­
garian Demoerati<: Forum had 
an edgn over the eenter-left 
J.nague of Free Dernoerats. 
But neither garnered anything dose to tlw absolute majority needed for deeisive vietory, making a coalition government likely aft1~r runoff deetions am lwld next month. 
Eler.tion officials said only live of the 394 parliamentary seats had been deeided by Mon­day. and three were llungarian Demoeratic Forum winners. 
More than 70 perr.ent of llungary's 7.S5 million eligible voters east ballots. 

With 3,60S,OOO--69 p1m:nnt -of the votes eounted late Monday, the eonservative Hun­garian Democratic Forum led with 24.22 percent and the een­ter-lel't League of Free Democrats was second with 20.S4 percent, state radio said. 
The Independent Smallhold­ers, a revived prn-World War ll party popular in rural areas, had 12.62 perr.ent. the Social­ists I0.54 perc1mt. the radical libnral League of Young Demoerats 8.57 percent and thn Christian Demoeratie Peo­ple's Party 6.43 pNeent. 
The rest of the 29 parties that fielded eandidates ap­
peared to fall short of winning 
4 pereent of the vote nationwide 
and thernfore would not be 
1~ntitled to any Parliament 
seats. 

Up to 14 candidates competed in most races, and the vote was so split that many seats will have to be contested again, eleetion offieials said. In the second round of voting, a simple majority will suffice, provided 25 percent of eligible voters turn out. 
The Democratic Forum and the Free Democrats have said they do not want to govern to­gether, so the Smallholders may be the key to forming a coalition. 
Smallhulder leader Vinee Vo­eroes said Monday his party is ideologically closer to the Fo­rum, whieh like the Smallhold­ers is based on traditional, Christian values . 

New band building to be built off of Juniper 
~ ~------------~ 
APPhoto 

By JOHANNA KELLY 
News writer 
No one seemed to notice the empty space between Washing­ton llall and LaFortune aftnr spring break. 
Students walked by, not missing tlw small, hrick build­ing that onee housed the Notrn Damn Band. With the con­struetion of the tww Band building off of .Juniper Hoad, the University decided to raze the old struetun~ over break. 
Tlw University determined that thP building, built in 1~98, was not worth renovating oe­eause of its poor eondition and small size. It was also in viola­tion of safety codPs. 
Through the years. the struc­ture served as the Huddle and a tailor sho , amon other uses. 
SObering Advice·;~ cansaveali~r~ 
Think Before You Drink ,~~Before You Drive ~~­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY 


Candy Lyon's Birthday is TODAY! Please Call Her and Wish Her a Good Day!! (283-2562) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

With the abundant supply of bricks left over from the demo­lition of the Old Fieldhouse, the lake-marl brieks that remained were discarded . The bricks are used to repair old buildings on campus. 
University maintenance plans to sod the fenced-off area this 
spring and hopes to eventually Hungarian Prime Minister Miklos Namath from the Hungarian Socialist 
landscape the spaee. Party is watched by surrounding media as he gives a last push to his vote into the ballot box in Budapest, Sunday. Namath along with other Hungarians is electing a new parliament in the first free and secret elections in 43 years. More than 70 percent of those eligible voted. 
FindingAJob DoesritHaveTo BeA Full11meJob 
There's no getting around it. It takes work to get work. 
Fortunately, new Jobs On File'"can eliminate alot of the job search busy work. 
Guide to majorU.S. employers. 
Jobs On File is arevolutionary reference guide to major U.S. employers. It works on your IBM PC or Apple Macintosh. And it's designed to cut yourjob search from weeks to days. 
JOBSource'" offers a library ofJobs On File software disks. We feature 45 different INDUSTRY reference disks for major employers nationwide. Depending on the industry, as many as 1,000 companies are profiled. Or maybe WHERE you want to live is more important? Then aCITY disk with up to 1,000 major employers may be your best choice. 
Savestime andhassles for $69.95 
At JOBSource we call thousands ofcompanies in 40 major cities to verify the contact person. Then we ask about local employees, revenue and other information. 
Jobs On File can help your job search go a lot faster. Organize and examine the data using your criteria. Then create cover letters with the built-in word processor. The program merges address information into your letter during the printing process, cutting prep time by as much as 90%. There is no product that offers such information and time saving convenience. 
Direct mail specialists would charge hundreds ofdollars for this company information. After spending thousands of dollars on an education, $69.95 for each INDUSTRY or CITY disk is agood invest­ment. Particularly ifit helps you get the right job. Call toll-free today to order. 
800-448-2364 
.Major credit cards accepted. Include •• $4 for shipping and handling. Allow I 3 weeks for shipping and handling. • Specify disk format when ordering. 
INDUSTRY DISKS 
Advertising agencies AD Government Accounting/CPA AC Hospitals Architectural design AR Hotels BM~ BA Industrial products BrokerI Securities BR Insurance Chemical/ Petroleum CE Law Firms Computer retailers CM Manufacturers Computer SW manu. CS Nursing homes Computer HW I HI-tech CH Pharmaceuticals/ health Construction suppliers CO Printers Consumerproducts CP Public Relations Contractors (commercial) CC Publishing Defense I aerospace DE Radio Stations Energy EG Real estate(commerclal) Engineering (arch.) EN Real estate(residential) Entertainment ET Retailing Food products FP School dials. (secondary) Food service FS Telecommunications Fortune 500 Industrial Fl Transportation Fortune 500 service FO TV stations Forest products FR Utilities 
CITY DISKS 
Atlanta  AA  New York  
Boston  BN  Phoenix  
Chicago  Cl  Philadelphia  
Cleveland Dallas/Ft. Worth  co OS  PIHsburgh Portland  ..  
Denver Detroit  DR DT  Salt Lake City Sen Diego  •  
Houston  HN  San Francisco  
Kansas City  KC  SeaHie  
Los Angeles  LA  St. Louis  
Miami  Ml  Tampa  
Minneapolis/St. Paul  MS  Washington, D.C.  
New Orleans  NO  



Tuesday, March 27, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Tandy, 'Daisy' gain Oscar honors 
LOS ANGELES (AP) "Driving Miss Daisy," the heartwarming story of a crotchety Jewish widow and her friendship with a patient black chauffeur, won the -Oscar as best picture Monday and cap­tured the top acting prize for Jessica Tandy. Its total of four awards made it the year's most-honored film. 
Daniel Day-Lewis was named 
best actor for his role in "My 
Left Foot" as Christy Brown, 
who battled cerebral palsy to 
become an acclaimed artist. 
Brenda Fricker, who played his 
devoted mother, won the best 
supporting actress award. 
Oliver Stone was honored at 
the 62nd annual Academy 
Awards as best director for 
"Born on the Fourth of July," 
the story of a Vietnam soldier's 
transformation from bitter paraplegic to anti-war activist. It was the second such prize in three years for Stone, who also won for the 1986 anti-Vietnam epic "Platoon." 
"My deepest thanks for your acknowledgment that Vietnam is not over, though some people say it is," said Stone. 
For the first time since 1981, the directing award did not go for the year's best picture. Bruce Beresford, who directed "Miss Daisy," was not even nominated, an omission that was commented on frequently during the presentations. 
"We're up here for one simple 
reason," said Richard Zanuck, 
who produced "Miss Daisy" 
with his wife, Lili. "And that's 
the fact that Bruce Beresford is 
a brilliant director." 

CLUB MEETINGS 
for the week of 3/26/90 
•The 
Notre Dame Knights of Columbus will hold a regular business meeting on Tuesday, March 27, at 1 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus Hall. 

•
The Water Polo Club will be hosting its spring tourney at Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday and Saturday, March 30 & 


31. 

•ALSAC will meet in the college Fellows Office at 4:30 
p.m. on Thursday, March 29. 

•ALSAC will hold a general meeting and elections at 1:00 
p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune, on Saturday, March 
31. 

•The CCC will have a meeting on Wednesday, March 28 at 6:30 in the Club Room, LaFortune. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 
Denzel Washington, the run­awav slave turned soldier in :'Glory," won the best support­mg actor award. 
"My son said he was going to make one of these out of clay for me, now I've got a model for hi~," an exultant Washing­ton satd as he held up his gold statuette, first award of the evening. 
"I never expected in a million years that I would be in this position. It's a miracle!" said Miss Tandy, who at 80 becomes the oldest performer to win an Oscar. The slender, white­haired actress received a standing ovation from the crowd that packed the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion of the Los Angeles Music Center. 
Day-Lewis had to overcome tough competition from "Miss Daisy's" Morgan Freeman and "Fourth of July's" Tom Cruise to win his Oscar. 
"For everyone involved in the film, all our desire to make the film, all the strength that we needed, all the pleasure that we 
took in making the film  came  
from  Christy  Brown,"  Day­ 
Lewis said.  

"1 don't believe this!" ex­claimed the Dublin-born Miss Fricker as she came on stage. 
She added her thanks to "Christy Brown, just for being alive, and to his mother, Mrs. Brown. Anybody who gives birth 22 times deserves one " she said, referring to the Osc~r. 
T~e awards were spread ir unusually even fashion during the 3-hour, 34-minute show that was televised live on ABC­TV and reached a worldwide audience estimated in advance at 1 billion. 
"Miss Daisy" also won for screenplay adaptation and makeup, making it the night's leader. 
Clergy are 'part of a team' in struggle to cope with death 
~y L. PETER YOB News Writer 
Communication and team­work between the terminally ill and professionals trying to help them make the approach of death easier for everyone in­volved, according to a panel that met yesterday. 
The discussion was initiated as part of Notre Dame's Year of the Family Program. It was designed to allow panelists to share their views with people who are now facing a death in the family. 
Father Gregory Green, staff chaplain and a panelist at the discussion, said that it is very important to remember that the "priest is very much in­volved in health care." He said that, "a clergyman is part of a team, not someone called to schedule a funeral." 
"The relationship built by a 

priest during sickness can help 
the family of the dying patient 
plan for the future," said 
Green. He also said that he 
hopes people will turn to a pas­

tor when faced with death or a 
dying family member. 
Another panelist, Marta 
Makielski of the IUSB school of 
nursing, said that she has 
worked in critical care nursing 
for 12 years. She said that 
many in critical care are on the 
fence between life and death 
and that she has personally 
"seen a lot of death." 
"People are often unprepared 
about death," said Makielski, 
and "many don't realize until 
they are in intensive care ef­
forts to keep them alive, that 
this is not what they wanted." 
While Makielski said that 
communication is a problem because most patients are in­timidated by doctors, another panelist, Professor Thomas Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School said that where medical technology is involved, doctors are intimidated by judges. 

"Doctors are afraid of being sued," said Shaffer. According to Shaffer, the Jaw is protective and "concerned with ""P.ing that the process of dying is not hastened." 
When deciding whether so­phisticated medical care should be withheld, the law usually looks for an indication of what the patient would desire to be provided or withheld. This in­tention is sometimes reflected in a document, called a living will, said Shaffer. 
Another panelist,Tom Burzynski, the director of hos­pice of St. Joseph County, said that "we are in a death denying society." Hospice looks at death as a normal process, ac­cording to Burzynski. 
Burzynski said that Hospice 

uses the team approach to help 
people deal with quality of life 
issues while they are dying. 
Hospice provides home care, 
said Burzynski, because when 
people are among family and 
possessions, they feel comfort­
able dying in that kind of situa­
tion. 
"Doctors are trained to cure," .said Burzynski, "but there comes a time when curing is no longer possible but caring is." 
"Perhaps we need to remind ourselves from time to time that patients are not just dy­ing" he said, "they are also liv­ing." 
Cantpus Ministry and You  @0PUS  
M.INISW­ 
EAT YOUR VEGETABLES. CHILDREN IN INDIANA ARE STARVING.  

"Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice's sake. They shall be satisfied." 
"I was hungry. You fed me." 

Hunger and starvation are a way of life for 500 million persons. None of them go to Notre Dame. 
That people are hungry is seldom debated. Why they are hungry often (though not often enough) is. It has been suggested that every country in the world has all of the resources necessary to free its people from their hunger, but economic and distribution policies prevent this from happening. 
According to the Institute for Food and Development Policy, there is more than enough food available to feed the entire world. Enough grain is produced to allow everyone on the planet ample protein and 3000 calories each day. Even in those countries where so many are forced to go hungry, there is ample supply. In India, soldiers patrol the country's 16 million tons of surplus grain. In Mexico, where 80% of the children in rural areas are undernourished, the cattle (mostly intended to U.S. export) consume more grain than does the country's entire rural population. In Bangladesh, enough resources are available to provide each person with 2600 calories per day, yet most consume fewer than 150\. calories per day. 
From the Institute: "Following the 1974 floods (in Bangladesh) millions in Bangladesh perished. But they did not die because of scarcity. One Bangladeshi describes what happened in her village: "A lot of people died of starvation here. The rich farmers were holding rice and not letting any of the poor see..." Asked whether there was enough food in the village, she replied, "There may not have been a Jot of food, but if it had been shared, no one would have died." 
The problem, this suggests, is not one of resources. The problem is one of justice. Of sharing. Of community. 500 million people are underfed. There is plenty of food. Some are not getting their share, others are getting too much. 
If you're reading this while eating, don't feel too indisposed. World hunger's not our fault, necessarily, but part of the solution does lie in our hands (or our mouths). 
Did you know that whatever you don't eat is given away to the poor? Through such University sponsored programs as FoodShare, food left over from dining hall meals are taken to a few agencies in South Bend -mostly Hope Rescue Mission and the Center for the Homeless -to feed those they 
serve. 

That means, very literally, that if any of us take vegetables, for example, and don't eat them, someone goes without. If we waste any food in any way (eg: food fights, taking more than we'll eat,etc.) it is literally taken away from someone who has nothing to eat that doesn't come from us. It is of value to reflect on this when we eat. What we eat nourishes us. What we don't eat will nourish someone else, if we act responsibly towards what we don't eat. 
Our eating habits, thus, become a great, practical and immediate way to increase our consciousness about being a global community. Imagine that a direct relationship between our eating habits and world hunger-at least on a local scale. A direct relationship between our selfishness or lack thereof and someone else's survival. 
So do our study habits become a way to increase our consciousness about the problems and potential solutions. Economics, earth sciences, biology, chemistry, business ethics, history, international relations, philosophy, theology, Freshmen Seminar, PLS, almost anything we study can be seen as a way to learn enough about the interrelatedness of all the earth and the issues that determine policies and practices affecting the world hunger situation. 
How we worship can also play a role in expanding our consciousness. In the Eucharist, for example, look at the bread that becomes for us and makes us the body of Christ. Not much to it, usually. Hardly nourishing in and of itself. But through our faith, we take it and eat of it and become what it represents. We become the body and blood and hands and minds and wills and policies and procedures that will be the current enactment of the gospel. We become the good news to those who need it. Or, we don't. 
An old yet effective story: An artist was asked to paint a picture of hell. She drew a great banquet with plenty of food, all types, great substance. She had a bunch of people sitting at the tables of the banquet, all told that they could only eat using the forks provided. Each fork was ten feet long -too long to reach anyone's own mouth. So everyone was starving to death, because they couldn't eat. 
The same artist was then asked to paint a portrait of heaven. She painted the same exact picture: great banquet, sumptuous food, people sitting at tables with ten foot forks that they had to use in order to eat. 
But in this picture, no one was starving to death. Everyone was well nourished. They used the forks to feed each other. 
So might we, so others might eat, too. 
This fourth week of Lent, the Office of Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns suggest we focus on the issue of hunger. Collections taken at last Sunday's Masses and contributions made during the week at either the Center for Social Concerns or the Office of Campus Ministry (Ubrary of Badin Hall) will be contributed to local agencies helping to feed the hungry in the local area. 
If you are interested in volunteering to help further in this issue, you might want to consider joining FoodShare. Volunteers take leftovers from our dining halls to local agencies, as mentioned above. It takes about one hour per day to do a FoodShare delivery. For more information, contact the CSC. 

Brought to you weekly by the 001ce of Campus dimstry and h'3 Observer 

page 6 
Fire 
continued from page 1 
An nqually angry Mayor David Dinkins ordered a sweep of other suspected unlicensed social dubs. Police and a spe­cial task force visited 241 clubs citywide from midnight to 7 
a.m. Monday and posted vacate orders on 187. 
Only 23 of the clubs were open -most are closed on Sunday nights. There were 52 safety violations and 30 sum­monses issued, said Sgt. Dick Vreeland, a police spokesman. 
In the East Tremont section of the Bronx, families drifted in and out of Public School 6 7, across from the fire-blackened 

Disabled 
continued from page 1 
businesses, housing and trans­
portation services, whether 
they are federally funded or 
not, be equipped so that they 
arn accessible to everyone. 
Commenting on the bill, 

Heinebold said, "I certainly 
think (disabled persons) should club. A task force of state, city 
and private agencies there 
helped them make funeral ar­
rangements and offered coun­
seling and financial assistance. 
"It's orderly, but it's not 

emotionally ordnrly," said Ken 
Curtin, a local Hed Cross disas­
ter relief director. "It's highly 
charged. There are a lot of out­
bursts of grief." 
In Honduras, a foreign min­

istry spokesman said the gov­
ernment "is deeply moved by 
the deaths of many countrymen 
in New York." The Honduran 
telephone company said it was· swamped with calls from people seeking word about loved ones. 
The fire broke out at 3:40 

a.m. Sunday, and those inside the club suffocated, burned or were trampled to death in a 
be able to have access to all the places they need to go, but it could be a great financial bur­den, especially on small, inde­pendent colleges." 
Reinebold said that the de­gree of financial burden on Notre Dame would depend on the length of time the University had to implement the changes. 

BILL OF UNIVERSITY AND STUDENT RELATIONS 
WHAT: Campus life Council Meeting 
WHEN: Wednesday, March 28, 1990 3:30p.m. 
WHERE: Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
WHO: The meeting will be open to "any member of the University Community" (bylaws, CLQ. And that means you. 
WHY: Because the issues within this Bill affect every Notre Dame student. Show your concern and voice your opinion. TAKE 
A STAND. 

* Additional copies of the Bill will be available today at the student government secretary's desk during regular office hours. 
The Observer 
matter of minutes. 
They had to "choose between a wall of fire or retreating and dying of asphyxiation," John­son said. 
Police believe five people escaped from the fire: three pa­trons; Gonzalez's former girl­friend, Lydia Feliciano; and the club disc jockey. 
The disc jockey, identified in published reports as Huben Valladares, was listed as stable at Jacobi Hospital with burns over 30 percent of his body, said hospital spokeswoman Vicki Ciampa. 
Feliciano and the others, whose names were withheld, escaped serious injury. Feli­ciano is in protective custod~·· 
Tuesday, March 27, J 990 

Soviet occupation is not a threat to June summit plans 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration on Monday opposed Soviet military occu­pation of three buildings in the capital of Lithuania but said Moscow's actions so far don't threaten June's U.S.-Soviet summit. 
The occupation of Communist Party buildings in Vilnius is "a kind of force and we're op­posed to any kind of use of force," said presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
He said that tensions in the secessionist republic "seem to have escalated on a daily ba­sis ... Building occupation is a significant event in this sense." 
Nonetheless, Fitzwater said, "The Soviets themselves have publicly and privately assured us that they have no intentions of using military force to re­solve the issue." 
Addressing the summit planned in June between Presi­dent Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, Fitzwater said: 
"We're prepared to have the summit at (that) time. We're still hopeful this can be re­solved." 
On the subject of recent Soviet no-force assurances, Fitzwater said that Moscow's promises were reiterated on Friday dur­ing a State Department meeting between Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger and Soviet Ambassador Yuri Dubinin. 
Dubinin earlier in the week had offered similar assurances to National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, the White House said. 
State Department spokeswoman Margaret 
Tutwiler said Secretary of State 
James Baker sent a private 
message to Soviet Foreign Min­
ister Eduard Shevardnadze 
over the weekend regarding the 
situation in Lithuania. 
Tutwiler said a m·eeting on 

tap next week between Baker 
and Shevardnadze was still 
planned. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, the 

Massachusetts Democrat visit­
ing the Soviet Union, said Mon­
day that Gorbachev had told 
him there are no plans to use 
force to bring Lithuania back 
into the Soviet fold. 
AftPr meeting with Gorbaehev 

for 1 1/2 hours, Kennndy said 
the Soviet leadnr "indicated to 
me that the position of the So­
viet Union was that thern would 
be no use of force unless the 
lives of others were threatened, 
and that he was committed to a 
peaceful resolution." 
In an interview with National 

Public Hadio, Lithuanian Presi­
dent Vytautas Landsbnrgis said 
the situation had become "very 
dangerous" in the light of Gor­
bachev's reported remarks to 
Kennedy. 
"Before he always said that 

he would not use force in 
Lithuania, but now we have a 
situation where he's qualifying 
that statement and setting a 
condition under which he could 
use force. 
"The only danger to the lives 

and health of the residents of 
Lithuania is the presence of So­
viet army troops themselves," 
Landsbergis said. 
Soviet soldiers took over two schools in Vilnius on Sunday, the Higher Party School and the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MBA INVITATIONAL CASE COMPETITION 
PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS: DUKE UNIVERSITY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 
>>> PUBLIC INVITED <<< 
10:00 AM TO 4:30 PM 
TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1990 CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Viewpoint
Tuesday, March 27, 1990 page 7 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tut~ill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny AccentEditor.................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shtnnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Con trotter ......................Chrrs Anderson 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reilect the policies of the administration of either rnstitution. The news rs reported as accurately and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinron of the matorrty of the Ediotr-rn·Chief. Managing Ediotr. Executrve News Ed1tor, V1ewp01nt Edrtor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Saint Mary·s Editor. Commentanes. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space rs available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying optnions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Saint Mary's needs new room selection policy 
Saint Mary's students completed the room selection 
process last week. Unfortunately, not all students are 
happy with the room and dorm they will be living in 
next year. 

BPcause each hall allots a certain number of spaces 
for each class, with the exception of seniors, many 
students arc forced to live in dorms where they would 
rather not reside. Many students are separated from 
friends with better room picks. 
The Saint Mary's housing selection process needs to 
be reorganized. First of all. the quota system should 
be abolished. Without the quota system, students will 
have a better chance of living in the dorm of their 
choice at least once in their four years at Saint 
Mary's. 

Additionally, Regina Hall should be reserved solely 
for freshmen. As the dorm is comprised of singles and 
is typically considered a freshman dorm, upperclass­
men should not be forced to live there simply to fill 
quotas. Upperclassmen should not have to live in a 
dorm where the rooms are considerably smaller than 
others on campus. Next year, 18 seniors are going to 
live in Regina Hall. 

After Regina is full, the remaining freshmen should 
be placed in McCandless Hall. McCandless would then 
primarily be a freshman and sophomore dorm. 
Seniors should choose their rooms first; once singles 
are filled in LeMans, Holy Cross and McCandless, the 
seniors would then be able to reevaluate their housing 
plans rather than live in singles in Regina. 
Juniors should choose rooms, next, and then sopho­
mores. This practice would increase students' chances 
of living in the same dorm or section with their 
friends. 

Another problem with the Saint Mary's housing pol­
icy is that student government leaders are given pref­
erence for housing selections because of the require­
ment that these students live on campus during the 
school year. 

There is no reason that student leaders, other than 
resident advisors, should chose their rooms prior to 
the regular lottery. Serving the Saint Mary's student 
body should be considered enough of a privilege for 
these leaders. Hall leaders should be elected after 
room picks. 

It's ridiculous that this housing system has been in 
use since 1984. It's definitely time for a change. 
DOONESBURY 

-~~~--""!II 
, ~_}-(~ I -"'--"'~--=!; lj. "'-, -•• \ 11---tt-~h--" 
''TWISONb: IS~ FRJM FAI<f!='Al SIWIULf\1~DFIOCR.IffiiTATIONSW~[ffNbRS AND ART\1=\C\N.-COLGR\NIQ ........ AND IT'SOUE.D 'GRANDBXSG1JDOLD·TIWI~ 01T·YE~LF·D7WN·AND·OC~AW: COUNTRY BREAKFAST.'' 
lETTERS 

Rights debates affect student life 
Dear Editor: 
Student Government is often criticized as a bunch of poster­happy bureaucrat-wanna-be's , who debate at "Top Secret Emergency" meetings over the mysteries of Notre Dame life, from table tents during elec­tions to Styrofoam bans. 
Well, politics and table tents aside, Student Government. more specifically the Campus Life Council, is in the midst of an important, if not controver­sial series of discussions which could affect many aspects of everyday student life. The topic in question is the proposed Bill of University and Student Rela­tions, a list of seven student rights. This bill could have far­reaching effects, from the con­tents and ads found in The Ob­server to the consequences of sending a snowball in the gen­eral direction of Dillon Hall. But most importantly, this pro­posal could usher in a more mature and responsible rela­tionship between the adminis­tration and students. 
Specifically, the bill calls for the rights of Notre Dame students to due process, to be judged in part by one's peers in administrative hearings, to open hearings, to by informed of all administrative hearings, to not be collectively punished unless self-imposed, to a free and uncensored press, and finally, to carry on individual and organized activity expressing any opinion regarding the University and/or society. The bill is a statement of trust between students and the administration. 
At this time, the bill has passed unanimously through the Student Senate, and is un­der consideration by the Cam­pus Life Council. This Council ( composed of students, faculty, rectors and Dr. Goldrick) is the most important body, of which students are members, which can suggest policy changes to the administration. Unlike the Student Senate, resolutions passed by the Campus Life Council must be commented upon by Father Tyson, in form of a veto, selective implementa­tion, or approval. 
The bill is the result of months of hard work and re­search by the Legal Department of Student Government, specifi­cally by Megan Hines and Greg Volan. This resolution is at a difficult crossroads, with 'lame duck' student leaders, graduat­ing seniors, the new elections and the perpetual threat of eternal tabling by the CLC due to the end of the academic year. Therefore, it is imperative for quick and decisive action, ac­companied by student support. to address these basic rights. 

While the Student Senate meetings are always open, the Campus Life Council is only open upon approval of its members. On Wednesday, March 28 at 3:30 pm in the Notre Dame Room (Second Floor LaFortune), the CLC will continue its consideration of this bill. All members of the Notre Dame community may attend this important meeting to add insight to this crucial discussion. This meeting is just one example of how. student government, in cooperation with faculty, hall staff and administration officials, can truly be effective. Please attend to voice your sincere approval or concerns about this bill. 
Lisa Bostwick District #1 Senator Walsh Hall March 23, 1990 

Students call for open discussion of rights bill 
Dear Editor: 

Based on the interest sparked at last Thursday's Campus Life Council Meeting, the group will meet again this Wednesday, March 28, at 3:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFor­tune to discuss the Bill of Uni­versity and Student Relations. I implore students to co:ne and make their presence felt at this meeting, as it is the first "open" Campus Life Council Meeting to to be held thus far. 
Through the decision to open the meeting, we can observe the bill's effectiveness to a small degree. Such an effect can only become magnified through stu­dent interest and participation. 
At the last meeting, there was no representative of Student Affairs present and, conse­quently, the bill was not al­lowed to be adequately dis­cussed nor were specific sec­tions able to be voted upon. I trust that there will be a repre­sentative from this office pre­sent Wednesday. And I trust that there will be mass student representation as well. 
Megan M. Hines Executive Coordinator, Legal Department March 26, 1990 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
'We are each of us angels with only one wing. And we can only fly embracing each other.' 
Luciano De Crescerzo 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, March 27, 1990 
Ordination issue tampers with traditions 
son to personal holiness. Con-ZG. . are aiming at bringing about a traordinary means for bringing 
sequently, since women hav11 IVen the present Sit-visible external change in the ller children to salvation. 
been excluded from the priest-uation of only male Church. But it is a veritable The Church was founded in 
By Jon Beane hood thP;re has been ~~hole-priests the Church al-axiom of Christian life that ex-order to e~hange people, not for 
sale demal of the poss1b1hty for ' ternal works must be thr over-people to change it. And herein 
at least half the members of the ready possesses ex-flow of a rich interior life. lies the rna] tragedy: those who 
I am a Catholic. And one of Church to attain personal holi-traordinary means for It has been my expPrience push for tlw ordination of 
tlw many duties incumbent ~ess. So!nething like this view bringing Her children to t~at t_hosc who push for the or-wonwn an~ by and large intPlli­
upon me as a Catholic is to be hes behmd most of the argu-. , dmat10n of women are gener-gent and industrious people. It 
an apostle of our Lord. I am ments for the ordination of salvatiOn. ally not very prayerful people; is just such people that the 
also a convert to the Faith. women. hence the first saints, were far their external apostolate is Church rnquin~s to be Apostles, 
Thus, I have been blessed with But this view has some flaws, from being people of a based upon weak foundations. especially in these rough tinws. 
special powers of discernment, chief of which is the prejudice "religious" cast; they were fish-I am not saying that all people So many souls are being irrevo­
at least with respect to com­that only in the priestly or reli-ermen, publicans and prosti-crying for "justice" in the cably lost because we are not 
paring the Catholic Faith with gious state can one become a tutes. Thus, to be a saint one Church are spiritually imma-working hard enough, through 
other forms of Christianity. saint. Any Christian can attain need not pursue the priestly ture; many of them arc proba-our example. our prayer, and 
No other form of Christianity to personal sanctity in this life, life; everyone baptized in Christ bly very holy people. But I am our works. Dons Christ hunger 
eonws dose to tlw truthfulness whether religious or lay, male has a vocation to be holy. utterly convinced that were for wonwn pri11sts or just 
and love of the Catholic Faith, or femal11. Such sanctity need In some ways it is easier to be such people to develop a gen-souls'! 
primarily because no other not be inferior to the sanctity holy in a celibate state of life uine life of prayer, they would I am not ilwluctably oppose~d 
church has our Eucharist. It is of priests; indeed in many cases than in a non-celibate state no longer see the Magisterium to wonwn priests; the Magis­
therefore especially painful for lay pc~ople are holier than their (though I sec no dear advan-as a bunch of bumaucrats or as terium only has to say tlw 
me to see Catholics parish priests. In short, thern tage of celibacy over chastity, an enemy, but as the living word, and I will believe~. But if 
"tampering" with this most is no rweessary connection be-i.e. the living of purity in the voice of Christ in tlw Church tlw Magisterium does decide to 
blessed gift from our Lord, or tween celibacy and holiness, state of matrimony.) today. Then they would c<~ase to change to laws concerning 
with the traditions and prac­though tlwre is a connection I am not saying that the voca-view the present situation as priesthood. it will do so at 
tices associat.-d with it. between chastity and holiness. tion to celibacy is not higher unjust. The Magisterium fol-God's parP and not at tlw pace• 
One such tradition that some Perhaps confusion concerning than the vocation to marriage, lows the Spirit, but tlw Spirit of human whims. It is very un­
would like to "tamper" with this distinction has fueled the for it is; I am only saying that comes only to thos<~ with well-likPly that at this time, or at 
concerns tlw issup of ordaining pn~judice that only celibate the calling to marriage is avo-prepared souls. any tinw in tlw near futurn (if 
women. It is often thought that members of the Church have a cation. And if this is so, then The underpinning prPsupposi-ever), God will wish tlwrn to lw 
only priests and religious are vocation. the complaint that half of the tion of their arguments is that women priests. In short. we all 
called upon by God and that the A vocation is literally a calling members of the Church are au-a priesthood that allowed need to lw humble. and to trust 
rest of the nwrnbnrs of the by Christ to come to him. Our tomatieally cut off from the women would tmmendously aid in the wisdom and prudence of 
Chun~h must settle for an inf<~-Lord does not call only priests possibility of genuine sanctity the sanctity of God's children. I our l<~aders. Any other cours<' 
rior position. and the religious to be saints, turns out to be quite empty. am not convinced of the truth sewms to be doomed to misdi-
This position is thought to bn lle calls everyone without ex-With respect to the "motives" of this. Given the present situa-rect.ion. 
inferior sine•~. apparently, only ception. The people he chose to of those pushing for the ordi-lion of only male priests, the Jon /Jeane is a Graduate .'-)tu­
the priestly lift~ can lead a per-be his first followers, and nation of women. these people Church already po dent in the philosophy depart-
ss<lsses ex-ment. 
'Benefits' of parietals deserve criticism 
minds. idealism. change and
By Brendan 
open thought. Open thought in­
O'Shaughnessey dudes both sexes, and parietals restrict the valuable exchange of thought that often occurs 
In tho rncent dass elections. I late-night. This leads to our noticed one of the candidate's first problem. slogans road. "Notre Dame, A relatively poor male-female loading tlw way into the 21st relationship exists at ND. For Century." That struek me as example, a student came by my funny in light of the fact that, room the other day selling a since Villanova adopted co-ed shirt that had "lie-Man Woman housing, Notre Dame remains llators Club" on the front and a tho only major unive~rsity in the big "Women are Property" on country that still lwlieves in tho back. This does not speak single-sex dorms and the only well of peaceful coexistence. major Catholic school investing Many male students have also in South Africa. But this article told me they do not consider is not about divestment or co­any girls just friends; instead, versity suggests that parietals convenient excuse to leave a pari•~tals have now. ed dorms, both of which seem they have 'acquaintances' or are necessary to keep guests of dorm when they want. Please, if I would like to see a dorm-by­inevitable; instead, I would like 'prospects.' Parietals contribute the opposite sex from imposing you do not have the backbone dorm votP on this matll~r tabu­to talk about the rule that to this problem by stressing the on their host's roommates. The to say, ''I'm leaving," you'd bet­latc~d by llall Prnsidtmts rather works synergistically with sin­differences between men and Administration thus hurls an­ter develop one soon, because than tho Administration. Sup­gle-sex dorms to poison many women, often marring the other insult at the students by parietals do not apply to the port for this proposal would aspnets of Notre Dame life-­relaxed feeling one could claiming that roommates can real world. very likely be •~ven stronger parietals. otherwise experience in a dorm not work this problem out like In conclusion, parietals than the results of the suecoss­
Parietals, as a concept, has of the opposite sex. ND loses mature people. Roommates should be updated with more ful rnfen~nd um on co-1~d hellls­many merits. Unfortunately, at many top students. athletes and must make many compromises, modern parameters, giving ing. Why not lind out'! I believe Notre Dame its limits are so open thinkers who hear about from use of the phone to play­quiet hours more importance. the Administration will listc~n to constraining, it is a more and disagree with parietals, ing the radio. These activities This is necessary to make the students. I hope I am not harmful than beneficial rule. I which results in an overly late at night bother a room­Notre Dame a more complete naive. believe a majority of the ND homogeneous student body. In mate in the same manner as a educational experience and to community would favor an ex­addition, the school does not guest; therefore, the annoyed improve male-femall~ relations tension of parietal parameters. provide many good, quiet roommate must speak up. on campus. Privacy, coupled One possibility is to extend places to study with a membor Another benefit of parintals I with tradition, gives parintals a /Jrendan o·....·haughnessy pariotals until 2 a.m. on week­of the opposite sex after have heard comes from stu­role in dorm lifo. but neither Freshman Year o.f Studies days, keeping quint hours at midnight, when many buildings dents who say parietals offer a justifies the strangling Pl'fect Morrissey flail midnight. At the same time, dose. dorm rooms are off­thorn would be no parietals on limits and lounges fill up with woekPnds, but quiet hours p1•ople and noise. LETTERS would be kept at 2 a.m. This Then~ are some practical system has worked well at benefits of parietals. The pri­
Volunteers gain perspective on poverty
other institutions such as Van­mary justification for pariotals derbilt, and would benef'it is privacy. Who could tolerate Dear J;"ditor: side rnsidemts and to sen how this visit as a way to di~PI><'n Notre Dame as well. thn terrible loss of pride after With Christmas in April just their volunteer work !'its into tlwir undPrstanding of tlw 
Learning should be thn main being seem with "morning face" around the corner, I'd like to ongoing efforts to improve strugglns. challenges and hopes 
objeetive of college. Learning or walking nude to the bath­let members of the Notre conditions in that neighbor­of' those living on tlw west sidc> indudes not only reading books room at 2:1 0? In reality, many Dame-Saint Mary's community hood. -insights that should make tlw and attnnding lnetures, but also people shower and walk around know about an opportunity The April 3 west side visit will Christmas in April experience growing socially and spiritu­in boxers or robes during non­that will be of special interest begin at 3:00 pm with a tour of especially mnaningful for them. ally. A University that prides it­parietal times -especially on to those volunttlering that day. the neighborhood led by the Please call the Cnn ter for self on an llonor Code based on weekends when many people . This year, as a companion to South Bend Ileritage Founda­Soda] Concnrns for more in­
trust should ext<~nd this trust wake up late. Furthermore, I Christmas in April, the Center tion, a local housing develop­formation or to n~gister for tlw to all aspects of school life. I feel the policy insults the jani­for Social Concerns and the ment organization. A discussion visit by the March 30 deadline. find the very concept of the tors and maids who must not Office of Community Helations and reflection will follow with Your support of Christmas in Administration telling studenl<t even qualify as men and women are sponsoring a visit on neighborhood leaders whose April is truly outstanding; it's when they are permitted to visit since they are not restricted by Tuesday, April 3, to South homes will be repaired during our hope that this visit will en­members of the opposite sex parietals. Quiet hours can Bend's west side neighborhood, Christmas in April. Transporta­rich your expnrience of helping insulting. We are no longer guarantee the ability to study site of this year's home repair tion will be provided and others that day. 

children and should be given and sleep in peace, while week­program. We're excited to offer participants will arrive back to 
Kathy Hoyer

the opportunity to learn about day parietals can still give ND this opportunity because it's a campus by 5:00pm. 
Coordinator for

and adjust to integrated social dorms that 'community feeling.' way for interested Christmas in We hope that interested 
Service/Social Action 

life. The University has histori­Other benefits of parietals April volunteers to gain new Christmas in April volunteers <~ally been the site of fresh also merit criticism. The Uni-perspectives on the lives of west will consider participating in March 21. 1990 
! 

Accent -­
Tuesday, March 27, 1990 page 9 
'I'd rather have a friend than money'
A visit to Appalachia puts values into perspective and forms new friendships 

MAGGIE MCCLOSKEY 
accent writer 

I was pn~pared to not take a slHlWPr for a w•H~k. I was ready to work hard and get dirty. But I drnw tlw linn at septic tank conservation. Tlw fact that we were limit•~d in our use of toilet paper and tlw numbnr of llush­ings p.-r day threw me for a loop. 
It is not oftl'n that one gnts to .-xpPrienre a differPnt way of lifP. And il is lnss common that <lllP would fon•go a trip to tlw bearlws of Florida and vnntun~ to tlw hills of Kenturky wlwrn flushing a toiiPt lwcomns a priv­iiPgP ratlwr than a duty. 
I saw morP than I bargairwd for during my wenk in Ap­palachia. I saw tlw poornst of tlw poor who have' more riclws than I could PVPr dream of hav­ing. Wlwn asked if I was jealous of tlw lives of tlw peopl•~ of Appalachia, I answ.-red yes, in somP wavs I was. Tlwir livPs are slow ·moving, quiPt, and JWiU'Pful <~omJHlrPd to tlw hustle and bu<=•l•• of my Pwryday life. But. 1 •tlso have lwPn taintl'd wi''' a lifP full of modPrn-day ,.,mvPniPrli'Ps. I am accustomed to PIPctridty and, Pven more so, plumbing. Dan and Wilma Gar­rett havP nPvPr vPnturPd vPry far out of tlwir hoiiPr. thP vaiiPy in which tlwy liw. Tlw life tlwy liw is tlw only way tlwy know. 
SWAP, Sharing With Ap­palachian Pnopln, is a Mennon­ite program based in Harlan, 
Kentucky. Denis and Jen Travnrs run the program which is aimed at helping to repair homes, as well as building lasting relationships with the people of Appalachia. The students who took part in SWAP were well aware of the first objective of the program, but I do not think they realized how dose they would grow to the families that were helped. 
The Garrntts are parents of l'ight and grandparents of ten. Stu Ilnaly, Pat Lanigan, Dan Skendzel and I had the job of replacing the roof on Wilma's homn that allowed water to pour inside the house. After removing and burning the old roof'. tlw process of placing the nPw roof was frustrating. But as wP managed to get each new strip of roofing placed, we felt a gn~at sense of accomplishment. A heavy rainfall Thursday night proved our hard work worthy. Not onP drop of rain found its way inside the five room bungalow. Despite continued rain and urm~rtainty on Friday, we managed to finish the job by re-roofing an addition to the house. 
As the only girl at the site, I grew close to Wilma. Each day I learned more about her life, and my admiration and respect for her grew. With her live two grandchildren she adopted after their mother, Wilma's daughter Nancy, was murdered three years ago. The sentencing of the man who murdered the daughter took place during the time we were working on the house. It was heartbreaking to listen to Dan and Wilma, and other family members talk about Nancy. An intense love and duty to protect exists between family members in the Appalachian region. The Garrelts, as well as the other families the group helped, believe in "an eye for an eye." At the trial, another of Wilma's daughters tried to bring a .38 into the courtroom, possibly to seek revenge on her sister's 

murderer. 
Dan, Stu, Pat and I grew close to the Garretts. As the week went on, we met other members of the family. We saw friends bring food, clothing, and furniture to Wilma. She had so many friends. "I would rather have good friends than money" became a comment of Wilma's that struck our hearts. 
The people of Appalachia have so much to offer. They may be poor, extremely poor, but they are so rich in life. They are happy 
'We had put a roof over their heads, and in turn, they had given the four of us a new understanding of happiness, love, and family...we had found new friends, the greatest of all riches.' 

despite what we see as miserable circumstances. They do not have material wealth; rather, they have human and spiritual wealth. Their lives are filled with hard work and many difficulties, but they have grown accustomed to hardship. They are survivors, deciding their own destiny, laws, and way of life in their little hollers in Southeastern Kentucky. 
Five families were designated to receive assistance from our group. Fourteen of us split up 
-· 
spine-chilling wake-up call from one spirited individual on the trip. We managed to strug­gle through the initial hours of the morning and to our job sites in the hills and hollers of Harlan. The work was difficult, tiring, frustrating, but reward­ing. Each evening we would re­flect upon the accomplishments of the day and deep inside we 
began to realize that despite setbacks and snarls in the jobs, 
we were performing miracles in 
the eyes of the people we were 
helping. 
I was asked at the end of my week in Kentucky why, as a se­nior, I had chosen to take part in the Center for Social Concerns seminar in Appalachia. I saw Appalachia as an opportunity to make an impression on a life in need. I was able to fulfill my expectations of the trip. as well as to discover a great deal about the people of Appalaehia. 

the other volunteers on the trip, 
and things about myself I never 
knew. I will never forget Dan and 
Wilma. And I do not believe 
they will forget Stu. Dan. Pat. or 
me. Saying goodbye was harder than I thought it would be. ­
There stood Wilma and her 
daughter Mary in Notre Dame 
sweatshirts that Dan and Pat 
had given them. They had huge 
smiles on their faces. We had 
put a roof over their heads and 
in turn, they had given the four 
into four teams, each with as­of us a new understanding of 
Above: L toR, juniors Dan Skendzel, Stu Healy, and Pat Lanigan helped repair the roof of Wilma Garrett's 
signments ranging from porch happiness, love, and family. In 
home. Wilma, bottom right, with daughter Mary, wear the sweatshirts they were given by the students. Top: repairs to the construction of Dan and Wilma, we had found Fourteen Notre Dame students participated in the SWAP Appalachian program in Kentuchy during their an outhouse. The days began new friends, the greatest of all 

-· page 10 The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Interested Sports Writers for tiH~ remainder of this The final sign-ups for Mud Volleyball are today. Call year and next fall should attend the new sports Nar.ibe or Caryn at x1 093. Cost is $7 per team. Team writers' meeting tomorrow, March 28 at 7 p.m. at the pairings may be picked up on Thursday, Man~h 29 at Observer. the SUB office. 
Interested Sportscasters who want to join the WVFI All captains of the NVA Men's Spring Soccer (640-am) sports staff should attend an informational Tournament must pick up schedules from NVA meeting tonight at 9 p.m. in the WVFI station on the immediately. Play begins Wednesday, March, 28. second floor of Lafortune. Questions? Call Vic at 283­2924. The Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold a mandatory 
meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 204 O'Shag. The men's tennis team is away at Indiana today. Officer positions for next year will be discussed. Details will app1~ar in tomorrow's Observer. The Cycling Club will have a meeting tonight in the 
The scorekeeper's meeting for Bookstore Sorin Room of Lafortune at 7 p.m. Bring morwy for Basketball will be held in the Montgomery Theatre jersey. Plans for upcoming races will be discussed. (Laforturw) at 7:30 on Mareh 28. 
SMC Lacrosse practice toady in front of Angela Her.. at 4 p.m. Bring mouthguards. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's off•ce. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
WVFI (640am) Sportstalk will feature Irish basPball coach Pat Murphy tonight from 8-9 p.m. Major league baseball preview and spring football updates will bP discussed as well. .Join hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowan, 239-6400. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball late sign-ups will continue this week. Call Nancy at x:1 196 or stop by 403 Lewis. 
Joining Notre Dame in the 1990 pre-season NIT Nov. 14-23 will bP NCAA Final Four participants Arkansas and DukP. Also included in tlw 16-team field are Arizona, Oklahoma, Austin Peay, Boston Colleg1~. Brigham Young, East Tennessee State, Fordham. Iowa. Marquette, Memphis State, New Orleans, TPrnple and Vanderbilt. 
' 

(  NOTICES  WANTED  GRAD STUDENTS I CLEAN 1-BDRM. APT. NEAR  RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located  SENIOR FORMAL BID FOR SALE CALL X3199  Days Fans!!!!!!! if you wish Jack and Jen  
WORDPROCESSING 272·1837 Typmg Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipp1ng. Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233·2342 ··········--------------------------­SUIIIIER JOBS LORS · Boys~. W. Mass. I Gn Camp, Maine Top s.y, Rml8dll..aundry. Travel Alowance. ~ ble kids and have skil in one ol lhe lollowing actiYities: Ndwly. Arts & Crafts, Beseb811. Baol<elbal. Bicycling. c~. Dance. Drama. Drums, Fencing, Goll, 0 Gyrrnastics, Hod<ey0 Honebacl<.Kar•. LllerOSSe. Nature, Nu,...,.,"""*¥"""". Piano. Radio, Rod<elry, Ropes, Sall>oarding. Sai~ng. SaD,. Soocer. T...... Track,-WSI, WlllerSki, w.w;;a. Wood. Men Cllll or wrile: ~Wlnadu, 5 Glen LMle, Manwoneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381·5~'.>-Women call or write: Camp Vege, P.O. Box 1n1. Duxbury, MA 02332 61 934-6536. Responsible,adu~ male, non· smoker, non-drinker will house sit June thru Aug. References. Call after 7pm 1-616-465-6292  1-' !:>TAFF: 21+. Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts. Some key positions avail. Also: WSI, lifeguard. arts & crafts, all land and water sports. fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows. drama, judo, dance, tennis. archery, photography, computers, model rocketry, guitar. radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness. woodwork. AN typist. 6/18·8/20. CAMP EMERSON. 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester. NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading books at home. Call615· 4 73· 7 440 Ext. B340 NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938 ATIENTION·HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840·$69.485. Call 1-602·838· 8885 Ext. R6262 ATTENTION: EARNING MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/year income potential. Details, (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. TV-6262 ATIENTION: POSTAL JOBS! Start $11.41/hour! For application info call (1) 602-838-8885, Ext. M­6262, 6am-10pm. ?days. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1 ·800-343-8373 INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER WEDNESDAY. MARCH 28,9 AM­4PM.  CAMPUS. KIT. & UTIL. FURN. $330 MO. 234·9871. Two (2) houses available for rent. Close to Notre Dame. Call 232­5411 for more information. 4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE 1990·91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE RENT. 277-0959. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? 2 bedroom furnished apt. for subleasing ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602·838-8885 Ext.A6262 A beautiful building site near N.D. 1/3 acre on Willow Run off of Cleveland Rd. 2nd lot on east side. Anxious sellers $9,000 or Best Offer. Call (616)476-2124 Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. Yamaha home stereo system for sale. CD player, receiver and Polk Audio speakers. $525, must sell. Call 291-2918 after 5. Two 100-watt speakers. I bought them in August and need more power for my 1Ox 10 room. Paid $200, want $150 or b/o. Joe, x2041 or late at x 1 838.  at Toll Road Exit #92, Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend). Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart, IN 46514. CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE. HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635·1307. READ AT THE SPEED YOU THINK, NOT THE RATE YOU TALK. AND BEITER UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU READ AT THE SAME TIME. CALL 234·271 8 FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE MOST FUN AND MOST SIGNIFICANT CLASS YOU MAY EVER EXPERIENCE. RESULTS GUARANTEED! HAPPY BIRTHDAY DISNEY!!!!! You're finally 21! HEY EVERYONE--­Did you know that DAVE FISHER is going to Senior Formal??? II you see him be sure to congratulate him on his big decision!!! THE WORD IS OUT---­DAVEFISHER IS GOING TO SENIOR FORMAL!!!  AMY THOMAS­DO NOT RESPOND!! HOW ABOUT A SPIRITUAL DATE SATURDAY NIGHT? p hiag UNDERGROUND Mountain Bike for sale. Top of the line Shwinn w/ accessories. $250 must sell. Call291·2918 after 5. SENIORS-DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY CASH. Michelle 2677 KATE McLEAN! HAPPY 19th TO MY B-DAY TWIN! LOVE, MARC SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! CLUB 23 GOOD MUSIC DIFFERENT FOOD LIVE PEOPLE GOOD FOOD DIFFERENT PEOPLE LIVE MUSIC GOOD PEOPLE DIFFERENT MUSIC LIVE FOOD MODELS NEEDED FOR  would just hop in bed and get it over with--call Molly x3885 COYLA O'CONNOR!!!!!!!! What did you do over break?? Pete-l'm desperate enough to drive a Jetta but not desper,.te enough to pay $9.90 for a persor • ...-~1! ......::?""'............----·-----·, __ MARC (BUTCHER, VINNIE, CLUELESS, GOOBER)­One good personal deserves another. HAPPY 20TH, you old tart. Hope it's a great day. Love. Lucky P.S. You are ugly!!!!! Congratulations!! Cheryl Cihak You'll make a most TRIUMPHANT cheerleader -6man Zelda. You're the goods. To: All Lonely Guys Out There: Today is your chance to hedonize with the best. Yes. believe it or not THE 1989 FLORIDA KISSING CHAMP is making her final date at ND after a RIGOROUS TOUR, including her unprecedented ND-MIAMI TAILGATE VICTORY. But wait Guys, you must SKINNY DIP  
KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm. 2bth. furnished 913 Leland X4420 MAKE $50 THE EASY WAY sign up for the TRACKS POOL TOURNAMENT in the Gorch Games Room-tourney play begins Monday. April 2 First Place-$50 Second &Third-Tracks Gift Certificates MADMACS will hold its monthly meeting TONIGHT at 7:00PM in room 300 of the math/comp bldn. SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER: APPLE Computer Spokesman! LOST KEYS 1 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 4841. THANKS. LOST: Gold "Monogram" Ring in the basement bathroom in the  CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For information Call (615) 779-5507 Ext. R-200. !!!BASEBALL CARDS WANTED!!! If you have any baseball cards that you would like to sell, I have some desparate little brothers who want to expand their collection! Call Kelly at 4985 Thanks! WANTED: 1 or 2 girls to live at Lafayette Square townhouses next year. If interested please call Beth or Jill at #2722 or #2723 ATIENTION SENIORS Moving to So. California? Need a roommate? '89 ND grad seeking roommate in Redondo Beach area. For more info call Debbie G. at (213)813-8607 (days) or (213)379·1505 (eve). Need RIDE to Annapolis or Baltimore MD April 5 or 6·8 Call Melissa #4431  OPPORTUNITY! 1978 CHEVROLET CAPRICE CLASSIC. 100,000 MI. RUNS GREAT. VERY DEPENDABLE. $1,000. WILL BARGAIN. CALL 1'''·7929lli::IClET!i Hey Seniors. Tell your parents to order all four GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH for any seat anywhere. So after break call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE P. 3270 Need miracle tickets for Uniondale, N.Y. Dead shows on 3/29·30. Call with info for money. x3684. BEAUX ARTS!!! THE GROOVE!!! MARCH31!!1 ONLY 400 TIX!!! \ PERSONALS  P .S. Carolyn tells us she just loves long stemmed red roses (In quantities ol12)! I need you like an alcoholic needs a beer; I need you like Steve needs a rear. I need you like Jordan needs peace; I need you like Steve needs release. I need you like a bun needs an oven; I need you like Steve needs some Iovin'. To the three golfer out on Sun. Thanks for ruining my parents visit. Your severe slice landed in the middle of the trunk putting a huge dent and chip in the freshly painted car (back from the garage two days ago.) Your lack of care as you walked away was also noted. Hope you had a great game. Another great reason to be proud of the Notre Dame "family". Andrew Leik  ADVANCED HAIRCUTIING CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277·1875. APRIL B-DAYS: AM and TM with special appearances by RG and CY. Seniors who go out with a bang! CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP Any Finance major interested in going on the Finance Club Chicago Trip, April19 & 20, must attend meeting Wed. March 28. 6:45 in HH Aud. Otherwise call Maureen x4667. CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP The World Tour continues at Club 23 TUESDAY EVENING IRISH MUSIC AND DANCING Farley Hall Players present GODSPELL, March 29, 30, 31 at Washington Hall at 8:00. Tickets are $2.00 and are on sale at the Information Desk LaFortune or at the door.  in St. Mary's Lake. Only from this crowd will the chosen ones be selected to GETN by the dishwater blonde from Illinois. To enter wish CANDY LYON a fully radicai22ND B·DAY, then proceed to St. Mary's Lake. Chris-­This is definitely war! By the way. why did you have to commit? Did il have any1hing to do with New Year's Eve? Touche Everyone wish Debbie Meek, "DISNEY", a Happy 21st Birthday!! Have a few margaritas for me at Chi Chi's tonight. Mark. AI, Jason, Julie, Wolf, Molly,  
- library on the Thursday of Break. If found, please call Dave at 232­9365 or just give it to library security. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD. SEAN 2073 Lost: small green stenographer's notebook was left in South Dining Hall has Italian notes in it. call x4174.  Student house 5 bdrms call Dan early 233-1 099 STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? Sublet a townhouse at Turtle Creek...(2 bedrm.,1 1/2bathrm,kitchen. etc.) Call Amy at x2702  Parrot Heads Forever!!! STUDENTS... JUST DO IT!!!!! Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS/2's. Visit the NO Computer Store for more details.  To the best looking cheerleader tryout: Laura, #18. I would like to meet you. If you are interested, please respond as soon as possible. -An admirer GET-APPLE: "I'd think it would take you longer because you're so big" The "E-Z School of WHAT?" find out. this summer in Texas.  To Marty and Bill: Thanks for being such great dates and letting us reminisce about the 70's and Schoolhouse Rock. E. digs the sweater. Remember us when you plan your next 70's party. Eileen's Freshmen 3-27 has ARRIVED!!I  all the girls from Siegfreid, and everyone who cheered me on to "The Chaun"-Yoy guys are "Simply the Best" and I guarantee everyone will know the "Wild Thing" real soon. Wags Sheri, Thanks for all the joy and hospitality. To Kent & Anthony. be nice to her. To Jessica & Molly, and all her friends at ND. good luck in all you do. To Sue, hope you & Ty have an awesome future together.  
LOST: Cascio watch between BP and D6 -James X 1 860 Lost: Red change purse with 3 keys attached. If found,please call Jill'5518  FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE. CALL 234-6688 OR 234·5041. SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP Walk to campus, pool etc.. 2bdrms. call277-7496  fr ••••••••• SENIORS GRADTIXS I need extras! Will pay $BIG BUCKS $ Call Margo x4189  CHRIS INFANTE: Dear Captain Quizbowl, Thanks for the great time Friday nile. Italians do make better lovers!ll XO  PATis21 ... HAPPY BIRTHDAY (no more $110 fines)  And back to Sheri, everyone in FL is waiting anxiously to see you. Until then!!! Friends Forever, Gretel. HI MAGGIE  
---------.. --------------------------­ 

Tuesday, March 27, 1990 The Observer 
NBA STANDINGS NBA BOX SCORES l 
EASTERN CONFERENCE NEW JERSEY (83) Atlantic Division 
Haley 1-6 1-2 3, Short 11-19 1-2 23, Bowie 3-12 w L 1'1:1 GB Streak 4-4 11. Hopson 5-12 6-6 16, Conner 5-8 0-0 10,
Philadelphia 44 26 .629 Won4 
Shackleford 2-5 2-2 6, Gervin 1-5 0-0 2. Myers 2-5 Boston 41 26 .612 1 112 WonS 
1-1 5. Dudley 0-2 1-2 1, Morris 1-4 2-2 4, Wood 0-1 New York 39 28 .582 31/2 Lost 6 
2-2 2. Totals 31-79 20-23 83. Washington 25 43 .368 18 Lost 1 
CHARLOTIE (97)Miami 16 54 .229 28 Won 1 
Tripucka 3-9 2-2 8, Gilliam 10-19 8-10 28, . New Jersey 15 54 .217 28 1/2 Lost 11 
J.R.Reid 3-10 1-2 7. Bogues 5-6 3-4 13, R.Reid 1-6 Central Division 
1-2 3, Curry 7-16 0-0 16, Keys 2-9 2-2 6, Holton 0­x-Detroit 51 18 .739 Lost3 
0 0-0 o. Gattison 2-4 0-0 4, Williams 4-4 4-8 12. Chicago 45 23 .662 5 112 Won 1 
Totals 37-83 21-30 97. Milw1ukee 36 32 .529 14 1/2 Lost 1 3-Point goals-New Jersey 1-5 (Bowie 1-3, Indiana 34 34 .500 161/2 Won3 Gervin 0-1, Wood 0-1), Charlotte 2-6 (Curry 2-5. Atlanta 33 36 .478 18 Won2 J.R.Reid 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Cleveland 32 36 .471 18 1/2 Won2 New Jersey 54 (Bowie 10), Charlotte 52 (Gilliam Orlando 17 51 .250 33 1/2 Lost2 11). Assists-New Jersey 16 (Conner 4). Charlotte 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
23 (Bogues 7). Total fouls-New Jersey 25, Midwest Division 
Charlotte 23. A-23,901. w L Pet GB Streak x-Utah 50 19 .725 Won4 San Antonio 46 22 .676 31/2 Lost 1 
SACRAMENTO (95) Dallas 38 29 .567 11 Won4 
Tisdale 8-19 3-4 19, McCray 12-20 3-4 27. Denver 
36 33 .522 14 Lost3 Ellison 2-3 0-0 4, Ainge 6-17 1-1 15, Del Negro 2-6 Houston 33 36 .478 17 Wont 
0-0 4, Carr 1-10 0-0 2. Toney 3-6 0-0 7. Pressley 6­Minnesota 18 50 .265 31 1/2 Won 1 
7 3-4 17, Kite 0-1 0-0 0, Allen 0-1 0-0 0. Turner 0-0 Charlotte 14 54 .206 35 1/2 Won 1 
0-0 0. Totals 40-90 10-13 95. Pacific Division 
CLEVELAND (116) x-LA Lakers 51 16 .761 Won4 
Nance 6-11 4-4 16, Bennett 0-1 0-0 o. Daughertyx-Portland 49 20 .710 3 Lost 1 
9-15 8-11 26, Ehlo 9-13 2-2 22, Price 5-8 5-7 16, Phoenix 46 22 .676 51/2 Lost 1 Williams 8-13 0-016, Brown 7-131-1 15, Kerr 0-5 Seattle 34 34 .500 171/2 Lost 2 
1-1 1, Rollins 1-1 0-0 2, Morton 1-1 0-0 2. Totals Golden State 31 36 .463 20 Won 1 
46-81 21-26 116. 
L.A. Clippers 26 43 .377 26 LastS 
3-Point goals-Sacramento 5-8 (Pressley 2-3, Sacramento 22 47 .319 30 Lost 1 
Ainge 2-4, Toney 1-1 ), Cleveland 3-5 (Ehlo 2-3, x-clinched playoff berth 
Price 1-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Tuesday's Games Sunday's Games Sacramento 46 (McCray 9). Cleveland 47 (Nance.
Washington at New York, 7:30p.m.
M1am1 105, Milwaukee 102 Williams 9). Assists-Sacramento 30 (Ainge, 

Boston at Indiana. 7:30p.m.
Dallas 9B. Detroit 96. OT Toney 6), Cleveland 39 (Ehlo 12). Total fouls­

Phoenix at Milwaukee. 8:30 p.m.
Minnesota 110, Portland 105 Sacramento 19, Cleveland lB. Technical­

Golden State at Dallas, 8:30p.m.
Los Angeles Lakers 116. Seattle 94 Sacramento illegal defense. A-13,54B.

Seattle at San Antonio, 8:30p.m.
Monday's Games 
Los Angeles Lakers at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
Late Game Not Included Wednesday's Games Charlotte 97. New Jersey 83 DENVER (102) 
New York at New Jersey. 7:30p.m
Atlanta 113, Denver 1 02 English 6-12 2-2 14. Schayes 5-10 2-2 12.

Boston at Philadelphia. 7:30 p.m.
Cleveland 116, Sacramento 95 Carroll8-17 2-2 18. Lever 7-15 3-4 17, Adams 4­

Denver at Washington. 7:30p.m.
Chicago 121. Phoenix 92 11 4-4 15, Davis 5-13 0-0 10, Lichti 3·6 2-2 8.

Miami at Orlando. 7:30p.m.
Houston 118. San Antonio 95 Rasmussen 1-2 0-0 2, Hanzlik 0-1 4-4 4, Lane 1-1

Charlotte at Detroit. 7:30 p.m.
Minnesota at Los Angeles Clippers. (n) 0-0 2. Totals 40-88 19-20 102. 

Chicago at Cleveland, B p.m. 
ATLANTA (113) 
Sacramento at Minnesota. 8 p.m. 
Wilkins 1 0-1B 15-17 36, Willis 6-11 2-2 14.
Los Angeles Lakers at Los Angeles Clippe'" 
Malone B-16 9-10 25. Rivers 2-10 2-2 6, Smith 2-7 4-6 B. Battle 7-9 2-2 16. Levingston 1-4 0-0 2. NHL STANDINGS Webb 3-3 0-0 6. Volkov 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 39-80 34­
39113. WALES CONFERENCE 3-Point goals-Denver 3-10 (Adams 3-7. Patrick Division Schayes 0-1, Lever 0-1, Davis 0-1), Atlanta t-7 
w L T Pts GF GA (Wilkins 1-5, Rivers 0-2). Fouled out-None. y-NY Rangers 35 28 13 B3 265 252 Rebounds-Denver 43 (Schayes 9), Atlanta 52 y·New Jersey 34 34 B 76 277 279 (Malone 18). Assists-Denver 20 (Lever B). Atlanta Washington 34 37 5 73 276 266 21 (Smith 7). Total fouls-Denver 2B. Atlanta 20. Pittsburgh 32 3B 7 71 309 34B Technical-Denver illegal defense. A-13,054. 
Philadelphia 30 3B 9 69 283 286 NY Islanders 29 37 11 69 267 279 Adams Division y-Boston 44 25 7 95 278 225 PHOENIX (92) y-Bulfalo 41 27 B 90 26B 237 Chambers B-18 4-4 20. Rambis 0-2 0-0 0. West 
y-Montreal 40 
2B 9 B9 2BO 229 3-4 3-3 9, Battle 5-5 0-2 10. K.Johnson 6-IB 5-5 y-Hartlord 37 32 7 81 266 259 17, E.Johnson 2-8 2-2 7. McGee 1-2 0-0 2. G.Grant Quebec t2 57 7 31 230 387 3-5 0-1 6, Lang 2-5 3-4 7, Legler 1-4 0-0 2. Perry 4­
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
8 0-0 B. Morrison 2-4 0-0 4. Totals 37-B3 17-21 92. Noms Division CHICAG0(121) W L T Pts ~ GA Pippen 13-17 1-2 27. H.Grant 6-9 4-4 16, y-Chicago 39 32 6 B4 304 2B5 Cartwright 2-4 3-4 7, Paxson 4-10 0-0 B. Jordan y-St. Louis 36 32 9 Bt 287 266 14-24 0-0 28, Armstrong 4-7 4-4 t 2. King 5-9 1-2 
y-Toronto 37 35 4 78 322 339 11. Perdue 2-5 0-0 4, Sanders 0-2 0-0 0. Nealy 1-3 Minnesota 34 3B 4 72 270 276 0-0 2, Davis 3-6 0-0 6, Lett 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 54-98 Detroit 2B 36 13 69 279 309 13-16 121. 
Smythe Division 3-Point goals-Phoenix 1-7 (E.Johnson 1-4, x-Calgary 39 23 15 93 330 257 K.Johnson 0-1. Morrison 0-2). Chicago 0-3 (Jordan y-Edmonton 36 27 14 86 305 274 0-1, Paxson 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­y-Winnipeg 36 31 10 82 291 2B2 Phoenix 49 (Lang B). Chicago 4B (Jordan 12). y-Los Angeles 34 36 6 74 327 31B Assists-Phoenix 20 (K.Johnson 6). Chicago 35 Vancouver 24 40 14 62 23B 299 (Pippen 9). Total fouls-Phoenix 15, Chicago 18. 
x-clinched division title A-17,BB4. y-clinched playoff berth Monday's Game 
Toronto at Minnesota. 8:35 p.m. Washington at New Jersey. 7:45p.m. Tuesday's Games Boston at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
SAN ANTONIO (95) 
Edmonton at Vancouver, 10:30 p.m. Hartford at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Winnipeg at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Cummings 9-17 0-0 lB. Elliott 3-6 0-0 6, Robinson B-20 B-11 24, Anderson B-13 1-2 17, ~~~a~o~~ ~~~~~·r;;t5cfu~bec. 7 35 p.m. Wednesday's Game 
Strickland 5-14 2-2 12, Brickowski 2-6 4-5 8 Calgary at New York Islanders. 7:35 p.m. New York Islanders at Toronto. 7:30p.m. 
Wingate 2-8 2-2 6, Jones 1-3 0-0 2. Blab 0-0 1-2 1, 
SPRING TRAINING 
At Kissimmee. Fla. 
At Orlando. Fla 
-

More than a third of the 58 games played so far in this year's NCAA men's oasketb~ll tournament have been decided by . ·three P!llnts or less, Including 13 of the 16 second ro1.1nd 
games and 4 of 8 semifinals.  •  
FULL TOURNAMENT  /  
Average margin of victory:  Games decided by:  
All 58 games so far:  9.40  1 pt.: 0000000 12.1%  
First round:  11.41  2 pts.: 000000000 15.5%  
Second round: 7.38 Semifinals: 7.25  3 pts.: 000000 10.3% 4 pts.: 000000 10.3%  
Overtime games: 5  5·10: 00000000 13.8%  
Includes all first and second round games and semifinals, plus the two  000000000011 20": 0000 24.1%  
finals played Saturday, March 24.  21+: 00000000 13.8%  

Moore 0-0 0-0 0, Paspalj 0-2 0-0 o. Williams 0-1 t­2 1. Totals 3B-90 19-26 95. HOUSTON (113) 
Johnson 4-5 4-4 12. Thorpe 13-15 4-6 30, Olajuwon 11-23 5-5 27, Floyd 4-9 2-210, Wiggins 5-14 4-5 14, Smith 3-4 0-0 6, Maxwell 0-4 0-2 O, Woodson 4-9 0-0 B. Bowie 0-1 0-0 0. Caldwell t-2 0-0 2,McCormick 1-1 0-0 2, Lloyd 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 47-BB 19-24 113. 
3-Point goals-San Antonio 0-1 (Wingate 0-1). Houston 0-4 (Maxwell 0-1, Bowie 0-1, Floyd 0-2). Fouled out-Johnson. Rebounds-San Antonio 54 (Robinson 12), Houston 51 (Oiajuwon 18). Assists-San Antonio 19 (Anderson 5), Houston 25 (Floyd 11 ). Total fouls-San Antonio 23, Houston 21. A-16,611. 
MINNESOTA (96) 
Corbin 3-9 2-2 B. Murphy 6-10 0-0 12, Breuer 5-7 2-3 12. Campbell9-20 9-11 27, Richardson 5-12 4­4 14, Roth 4-7 2-4 11, Mitchell3-8 2-2 8, Sellers 0­4 0-0 0, Lowe 0-1 0-0 0, Royalt-3 2-3 4. Totals 36­BI 23-29 96. LA CLIPPERS (101) 
Manning 12-16 2-2 26, Norman 6-1 0 3-5 15, Smith B-17 12-14 2B. Garland 2-13 0-0 4. Martin 5­11 5-5 15. Benjamin 3-6 1-2 7. Garnck 2-3 2-2 6. Bannister 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 3B-77 25-30101. 
3-Point goals-Minnesota 1-3 (Roth 1-1, Murphy 0-1, Sellers 0-1), Los Angeles 0-1 (Garland 0-1). Fouled out-Breuer. Rebounds-Minnesota 41 (Corbin 11 ), Los Angeles 54 (Norman 11 ). Assists-Minnesota 17 (Richardson 6), Los Angeles 26 (Garland 12). Total fouls-Minnesota 
24. Los Angeles 22. Technicals-Minnesota illegal defense 3. A-9,529. 
Late Sunday 
SEATILE(94) 
McDaniel 5-16 2-2 12, McKey 3-10 0-0 6, Cage 4-9 1-2 9, Ellis 5-9 3-6 13, McMillan 1-6 2-2 4 Threatt 5-6 0-0 10, Polynice 2-3 2-2 6, Barros'1-3 2-2 4. Kemp 8-15 2-2 19, S.Johnson 2-5 0-0 4, Dailey 1-4 0-0 2, Farmer 2-6 0-0 5. Totals 39-92 14-18 94. LA LAKERS {116) 
Green 2-7 2-2 6, Worthy 6-9 4-4 16. Thompson 2­6 4-4 B. E.Johnson 6-7 5-5 1B, Scott 5-10 5-6 17 Cooper 6-12 0-0 12, Divac 3-7 2-4 8, Woolridge B­11 2-2 18, Drew 2-4 2-2 7. McCants 2-4 0-2 4. McNamara 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 43-?B 26-31 116. 
3-Point goals-seattle 2-6 (Kemp 1-1, Farmer 1­1, Ellis 0-2, Barros 0-2). Los Angeles 4-9 (Scott 2­3, Drew t -2. E.Johnson 1-2, Green 0-1, Cooper 0­1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Seattle 49 (Cage 9). Los Angeles 4B (Divac 12). Assists­Seattle 22 (McMillan 6). Los Angeles 29 (E.Johnson 5). Total fouls-seattle 27. Los Angeles 17. Technical-Seattle coach Bickerstaff. A-17,505. 
AP/Pat Lyons 

SPORTS CALENDAR 
Tuesday, March 27 Fencing hosts NCAA tournament, Angela Sports Center (SMC). Men's tennis at Indiana. 3 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 28 Baseball at Purdue. 3 p.m. Fencing hosts NCAA tournament. individual men's epee. 
Thursday, March 29 Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational: Lexington. Ky Softball vs. LOYOLA (2). 3:30p.m. 
Friday, March 30 Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational. Lexington. Ky. Lacrosse at San Diego State Tournament, Notre Dame vs. Air Force. 
Saturday, March 31 Baseball vs. SAINT LOUIS, Coveleski Stadium. Baseball vs. ILLINOIS, Coveleski Stadium. (ESPN) Men's tennis at Miami (Ohio). 11 a.m. Women's tennis at Michigan State. 1:30 p.m. Lacrosse at San Diego State Tournament, Championship/Consolation. 
Men's golf at Kentucky Invitational, Lexington. Ky. Softball a1 Bradley (2) 2 p.m. 
Men's track at Meeting of the Minds vs. Rice. Harvard. Drake in Houston. TX 
RESULTS 
Men's fencing: Placed filth in foil division of NCAA championships 
John Coyle placed 37th in the Junior World Cross Country Championships held at Aux-Les-Bains, France, on Saturday, March 27. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League SEATILE MARINERs-Named John Taylor di­rector of corporate sales. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association CHARLOTIE HORNETs-Announced the resig-
New York (Al) 000 001 033-7 12 nation of Carl Scheer, president and general man­LosAngeles 022 010 071-13 14 3 Houston 000 010 o 1 0-2 11 o ager. to become president of the Denver Nuggets. 
Minnesota 023 01 0 000-6 9 3 Wetteland. Crews (3). Searage (5). Aase (7), Munoz (9) and Dempsey. Hernandez (6): Tapani. 
Darling, Ojeda (3). Cone (5). Whitehurst (6). Innis (B). Brown (9) and Lyons, Sasser (5'). Mercado (B); PHOENIX SUN5-Piaced Jeff Hornacek. guard. Guthrie (3), Candelaria (5). Pittman (7). Delkus (B) and Harper. Laudner (7). W-Aase. 1-0. L­
Schatzeder._ D.Sm1th (3). Allen (5), Kerfeld (7), Meyer (8). Bowen (9) and Biggio. Trevino (6). Nichols on the injured list. Signed Mike McGee. guard. for Pittman. 0-1. HRs-Los Angeles. Murray (1). Brooks (1). Minnesota. Gaetti 2 (2). 
(9). W-Whltehurst. 1-0. L-Kerfeld, 0-1. HR-Houston, Trevino (1). the rest of the season. At Miami 
HOCKEY 

At Fort Lauderdale. Fla National Hockey League
Montreal 001 100 030-5 11 4
Atlanta 000 010 003-4 13 1 ST, LOUIS BLUE5-Recalled Nelson Emerson. 
eanimore ooo ooo 021-3 11 o
New York (AL) 000 004 1Ox-5 9 2 center, from Peoria of the International HockeyDe.Martinez. Boyd (4). Winston (7). Rojas (B). Gideon (9) and Santovenia, Goff (B); Milacki. BautistaLilhquist. Clary (3). Havens (6). Olwine (7) and Whitt. Olson (6): Cary. Eiland (4), Plunk (7) and (5). Williamson (7), Olson (9) and Tettleton. Melv1n (6). W-De.Martinez. 1-0. L-Milacki, 0-1. League.
Cerone. Dorsett (6). W-E1Iand. 1-0 L-Havens. 0-1. HAs-Atlanta, Evans (1). New York. Blowers (1). 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!! 
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER 
DUTIES INCLUDE ACCOUNTING FOR: 

Adworks Irish Gardens Cellar 
GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE 
Accepting applications which can be picked up at Student Government 
Office 2nd Roor LaFortune Deadline is April 2nd 
SCIEN(:E;, TECHNOLOGY & VALUES  
SOPHOMORES  AND  FRESHMEN  
-'-Take aCourse  
-Elect the Concentration -Consider an Inter-disciplinary Career -Meet Others Sharing Yourlnterests/Concerns  -, I  
''STV COURSES TAKE UP THE QUESTIONS OF OUR LIVES"  
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: TUESDAY, MARCH 27 6:00-6:30 P.M. ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY  


page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1990 
ND wrestlers can't advance past second round of NCAAs 


Session 2 I:OOp.m. 
World 
continued from page 16 

Football (WLAFl in conjunction with the NFL. Tt1ams will be based in Milan. Frankfurt. London. Barcf1luna. Mexico City and Montreal, as well as New York, Orlando and four other 
U.S. citil1s to be announced. 

While the teams may have trouble drawing fans overseas initially. this will not destroy the league financially. The WI.AF already has television contracts with ABC and USA Cable network which total in Pxcess of 50 million dollars. ABC and USA have committed to carrying 50 games live. 
Play is scheduled to begin by March 23, 1991. 
Thn only thing more annoying than Phil Hizzuto's color on Yankee broadcasts is little Luis 
Line 
continued from page 16 

Junior Marc deManigold and sophomores Eric Jones and Stuart Tyner are expected to compete for spots on the sec­ond unit. Sophomores Todd Norman, Karl MeGill and Todd Stoker, and seniors Mike Callan and George Marshall should lend quality support. 
Sophomore defensive tackle Junior Bryant will miss the spring practice session to spend more time on academics. Bryant registered seven tackles in his freshman campaign. 
Bumpas may seem new to Notre Dame fans, but he has coached with both Holtz at Arkansas and new defensive 
.Anlerican Red Cross 

Polonia in the Yankee outfield with a glove so big that it could seat comfortably Hoseanne Barr. 
If you're sick of seeing little Louie and dozens of other major league outfielders capture line drives with monstrous mitts, take heart. This year the Major Leagues plan to enforce the rule which states that gloves must be no more than 12 inchns from the top of the web to the palm. 
Last year, in similar fashion, the Major Leagues announced a decision to enforce balks strictly. The result was a gigantie increase in the number of balks called by umpires. Since players can be ejected if they refuse to switch to regulation-size gloves, don't be surprised if you see Polonia and a few other ballplayers leave for early showers at least once during the season. 
coordinator Gary Darnell at Kansas State and Tennessee Tech. lie was a graduate assis­tant on Holtz's 1977 Hazorback squad which finished 11-1. 
"I have the utmost respect for 
Coach Holtz and what he has 
accomplished," Bumpas said. 
"It's a lot of fun and a privilege 
to work with him." 
Foil 

continued from page 16 
mark. Senior foilist Derek 
Holeman added much needed 
depth by making the switch 
from foil to epee, and could be 
a big factor if thP. Irish are to 
pull off a last-second miracle. 
Earlier in the season, the Irish managed to edge out the Penn State epee squad by a 5-4 margin in the USFA collegiate open. However, in head to head 
GETACTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME 

a planet is a terrible thing to ~~~t~ I Aluminum • Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
competition against Columbia's team, Notre Dame went down in defeat quite handily. 
"The key of cours<' will be to beat both Penn and Penn State, since they're in our own bracket." said Marx. 
The Princeton squad has ex­hibited over the course of the season that they can beat any­one on any given day, after they downed the Irish R-1 earlier in the season. 
On a brighter note, sopho-. more lleidi Piper placed second 
in the women's individual foil 
competition after falling to 
Columbia's Tzu Moy in straight 
bouts, 5-2. 5-2. 

The present standings aftnr thrne rounds of eompntition: Columbia 2(J, Notr11 Damn 26, Penn State 24, PPnn 22, and Wayne Statn 16. 
Tuesday's action will indude th11 men's individual foil finals at 4:30 p.m. and the ml'n 's Ppne tnam finals at 5:30 p.m. All events arn bning lwld at Saint Mary's AngPia Athletic facility. 
By KEN TVSIAC Associate Sports Editor 

All four competing Notre Dame wrestlers ran out of luck in the second round of the NCAA championships at College Park, Maryland this past Friday. 
Senior Pat Boyd, sophomore Marcus Gowens, junior Mark Gerardi and freshman Steve King all lost their second matches in the tournament after advancing with wins in the first round. Oklahoma State won the NCAA title by scoring 
117.75 points. 

Boyd was expected to chal­lenge for the title at 142 pounds, as he was ranked third in the nation in that weight class, but Jeff Lyons of Indiana had other plans. Lyons deci­sioned Boyd with a 5-1 overtime victory in which the referee was overruled when he awarded Boyd a two-point takedown early in the match. 
"Pat was not himself. he was just not right mentally," Irish coach Fran McCann said. "Ability-wise, he's a potential finalist. but something was missing." 
Joe Reynolds of Oklahoma went on to win the 142-pound bracket, while Boyd lost 4-3 in his first match in the "wrestle backs" bracket to finish the season with five losses against 28 wins and a draw. 
Gowens was pinned by Kendall Cross of Oklahoma State at 126 pounds. Cross, the defending national champion, was ranked third in the 126­pound division but did not reach the finals. In the wrestle backs, Gowens lost to Tom Toth of American University 7­6 when he gave up a takedown late in the final stanza. 
At 16 7 pounds, Gerardi lost a 6-2 decision to Tom Marchette of Bucknell in the second round. Gerardi fought back in the wrestle backs with an 8-4 decision over a wrestler from Franklin and Marshall before he was eliminated from the tournament by Casey Graham of Indiana by a 6-2 score. 
King lost a tight (5-3) second round match against Brooks Simpson of Iowa. Simpson went on to the finals where he lost to Matt Huppel of Lehigh by a score of 6-5. King won his first match of the wrestle backs be­
~ 
Pat Boyd 
fore being knocked out of the tournament by Jim Nelson of Iowa State in a 6-4 decision. 
"I thought Gerardi wrestled a good tournament," McCann said. "I thought for a freshman, Steve King was outstanding. lie showed a lot of heart. I was really pleased with those two (Gerardi and King). Everybody there (at the NCAAs) is talented, but it just comes down to who wants it the most." 
Senior Andy Hadenbaugh, de­spite qualifying, failed to make weight at 118 pounds and was unable to compete in the tour­nament. 
"We were extremely disap­pointed that Badenbaugh did not make weight. That put a damper on things right at the beginning. It was really not a good thing," McCann said. 
McCann was not surprised that Oklahoma State won the tournament outright. 
"I thought Oklahoma had the best shot going in," he said. "They had eight really solid guys; they just had too many horses for the rest of the field. Arizona State wrestled a great tournament as well. It was a great tournament; it came right down to the end." 
The Sun Devils placed second in the tourney with 104.75 points, while Iowa finished third with 102.75. 
The disappointment in the NCAA tournament closed out a season which opened with gmat expectations for the Irish, who looked very strong from top to bottom. Notre Dame began the season with a first place finish among eight teams in the Michigan State Invitational, but soon hit the skids on a trip to 
the west coast ovN Christmas Brnak. 
After finishing first in the Southern California Invitational, the Irish lost dual meets at Cal-Poly-San Luis Obispo and Fresno State. Although a win over Ohio State. which was ranked 1Oth in the country at the time, was cause for excitement, Notre Dame had trouble against some of the other Big 10 teams, losing dual meets to Michigan State, Iowa and Indiana. 
"Maybe we were a little too optimistic," McCann said. "Everything was in our favor, but (sophomore) Tim Anderson quit during the first semester, leaving a big hole at 134 (poundsl, and Andy's (Hadenbaugh's) weight problem hurt us as well." 
Hadenbaugh missed several meets during the season be­cause he couldn't make wnight. 
"That's what hurts," McCann concluded. "You know you havn the peopll'. but they can't play. That was really disappointing." 

fridCIY E'VE"NiN<;l JqturdCIY E'VE'NIN<;l 
Session 1 7:30p.m. 
Session 3 7:30 p.m.
judges' jam 11:30 p.m. 
Guest Band University or North Texas 11:15 p.m. 

Summttr h,\l!;. 

Over 50.000 summer JOb open~r>gs at Resons. Camps. Amusement Parks. 8us1nesses. Cru1se Lrnes. Ranches. and more in the U.S.. Canada. 
Australia. and 20 other countnes Complete d~teotory onry 519 95. Don·t wart trll a~er frnals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937 

Tuesday, March 27, 1990 The Observer page 13 

SMC tennis adjusting after losses Krzyzewski wants title 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE lost 1-6,1-6 to both schools. 2-6, 7-5,7-5. They were not 
for much-denied Duke 
Sports Writer Sophomore Ellen Mayer, as successful against 
The Saint Mary's tennis number four singles, lost to Northern Illinois, losing the team suffered two losses Eastern Michigan 1-6,1-6 battle 1-6, 3-6. DURHAM, N.C. (AP)-If Duke and-or physically. So that over the weekend. one to but defeated her Northern The Belles, an NCAA-3 and doesn't win the Final Four this you've got the proper focus and Eastern Michigan 8-1 and Illinois opponent 6-2, 6-3. NAIA-3 team, find the spring year, Coach Mike Krzyzewski that you still enjoy it, too." another to Northern Illinois "Ellen won her singles match season more challenging be-says he'll change his name. His Last season, Duke and Danny H-1. leaving the Belles' easily. She played a great cause they play mostly NCAA face, too. Ferry were expected to go to record at 1-5. match, great ground-Division 1 teams. "Although "I wasn't going to say any­the Final Four. This year; 
Number one singles senior strokes," said Belles coach our schedule is much more thing to anybody. But if we Krzyzewski admits that his ex­Jen Block was defeated by Charlene Szajko. challenging this [season] it's don't win it this time, I think pectations weren't that high, at her Eastern Michigan oppo-In doubles, Block and good experience for us; it I'm going to change my name least not at first. nent 2-6, 1-6. She fell to Sarah Mayer lost 4-6, 0-6 to prepares us for nationals," and grow a beard," Krzyzewski "I didn't think we had a team Notrthern Illinois 2-6, 5-7. Eastern Michigan and 2-6, Szajko said. "First semester said Monday at a news confer­at the start of the year that 
Junior Sarah Mayer lost 5-7 to Northern Illinois. we would walk on the court ence. "But I haven't figured could do this," he said. "Later, both her number two singles Koscielski and Ellen Mayer knowing we'd already won what name yet." I thought we had a chance." matches, 1-6, 2-6 against struggled over the first set against the other NAJA The success of Duke's bas­Duke lost three of its final Eastern Michigan and 0-6, with their Eastern Michigan Teams. Now we have to go ketball program under four regular-season games, 0-6 against Northern opponents, but had a strong on with a different mindset. Krzyzewski is both a joy and a then lost 83-72 to Georgia Tech Illinois. comeback, split sets, and But we still play well. That curse. In his tenure, the Blue in the semifinals of the Atlantic 
Denise McDonald. fresh-came away with a narrow puts Saint Mary's in a class Devils went to the Final Four in Coast Conference tournament. man third singles player, victory. The final score was of its own." 1986, 1988 and 1989, advanc­Krzyzewski said at the time ing to the championship game that his team was still improv­
good. 3-1. starts. Shortstop Mike Coss is ­
against Louisville in 1986. ing and still had a chance. 
Freshman Pat Leahy got the hitting .120, Jason Martinez But they haven't come home
Butler 
call for the nightcap. pitching a .190, captain Ed Lund .191, Joe with the title. Krzyzewski said the changes
continued from page 16 solid five innings and recording Binkiewicz .193, and senior "We haven't learned how to came slowly as the Blue Devils "It was pretty much a his first collegiate win. His designated hitter Frank Jacobs win it yet, but that doesn't gained confidence in them­
pitcher's day with the weather modest 1-0 record masks a .216. The Irish are hitting .242 mean that what we've done has selves, something that seemed conditions," said Piotrowicz. "I stellar 2.03 EHA in 26 2/3 as a team and have left 126 on been bad," Krzyzewski said. "I to be lacking initially. had a little trouble with innings pitched. base. guess the lessons to be learned establishing a good changeup, Freshman Chris Michalak Still, the Irish have an are how to approach this whole "We don't say it, but it's un­and I'm still waiting to have a picked up his first .save by impressive 12-4 record, week, so that when you do get derstood that someone will step game where I'm in control of pitching two innings of spotless identical to its record last year there, you're not tired, mentally forward," Abdelnaby said. 
all three of my pitches. I think relief, lowering his ERA further at this time. Last year's squad 
FIRST GAME SECOND GAME 
coach Murphy had a lot of to 2.08. finished at 48-19-1 and 
Notre Dame 3, Butler 1 Notre Dame 4, Butler 2 
confidence in me in the last In that game, the Irish received a bid to the NCAA inning where I gave up a few jumped out to an early 3-0 lead tournament, the first time it 
Notre Dame 

Notre Dame hits. and luckily I worked out in the first inning. Eric had been invited in 19 years. I>B H R RBI I>B H R RBI 
Danapilis , RF 3 0 0 1 Danapilis . RF 3 2 1 0
of it." Danapilis singled and stole "We have to improve Rotkis, LF 0 0 Rotkis, LF
3 3 1 1 1Said Murphy: "Brian didn't second to start the game, and greatly," said the third year Miadich, LF 0 0 0 Jacobs. DH 4 0 0 0 Jacobs, DH 3 0 0 Binkiewicz. 1 B 1
have great stuff on Sunday. but Mike Rotkis followed with a coach, whose cumulative 4 1 1 
Binkiewicz, 1 B 2 1 0 Mee, 2B 2 1 0 1his experience got him through. walk. After Frank Jacobs record is now 99-45-1. "We Mee, 2B 2 0 0 Lund, C 3 2 0 1 
lie has learned how to survive struck out, Binkiewicz singled have to improve in all areas, Lund, C 2 1 0 Counseii,3B 3 1 0 0 
Counseii,3B 3 1 0 2 Bautch. CF 2 0 0
no matter what stuff he has, in Danapilis as Rotkis took especially execution, offense, Bautch, CF 2 0 1 0 0 
Coss. SS 2 0 0 and that's a sign of a good third. A sacrifice bunt by Cory and intensity. Coss. SS 2 0 0 0 
Totals 27 8 4
pitchm." Meo scored Hotkis, and then a "It's still early in the season, Totals 22 3 The decisive scoring came in double by Lund scored and I am not as concerned 
Butler

the fourth inning. With the Binkiewicz. about our hitting as I may be 
Butler 

I>B H R RBI score tied 1-1, sophomore Joe One thing Murphy would not leading on to be. We're not I>B H R RBI Ackermann, 2B 3 1 0 1 
Binkiewicz singled. One out like to do is dismiss the hitting the ball as well as we Ackermann, 2B 4 1 0 0 Nies. SS 3 2 0 0 
Nies. ss 3 1 1 0 Coffee, 1B 3 0 0 0later. senior Ed Lund walked. scarcity of runs strictly to poor should, but it's early, and the Coffee. 1B 2 0 0 0 Merica. 3B 2 0 0 0 advancing to second and weather. The lack of hitting stats don't mean much. The Merica. 3B 3 1 0 1 Latty. LF 3 0 1 0 
Latty. c 3 0 0 0 Berglund. DH 3 1 0 0
Binkiewicz to third on a passed output has been nagging the numbers are just a small Berglund, DH 3 1 0 0 Lovat. RF 3 0 1 1 ball. Sophomore Craig Counsell Irish all season. indication but it becomes a Schaffer, RF 3 0 0 0 Johnson,C 2 0 0 0 
Lovat. LF 3 1 0 0 Murphy. CF 0
doubled homo Binkiewicz and Several starters from last larger indication as we play 3 0 
Murphy, CF 3 1 0 0 Lund to put tho Irish up for year have gotten off to horrid more and more games." Totals 25 5 2 2 Totals 27 6 
E: Coss. 2B: Rotkis. Lund. Stolen bases: 
E: Danapilis. 2B: Counsell. Ackermann. Stolen Danapilis. Lund. bases: Counsell. 
Notre Dame p H R ER B8 K p
Notre Dame H R ER B8 K Leahy W, ( 1·0) 5 5 2 1 1 3 Piotrowicz W, (3·2) 7 6 1 0 0 6 Michalak S. 1 2 0 0 0 0 3 
Butler p H R ER B8 K Butler p H R ER B8 K Hedrick L 7 3 3 2 6 Kessler L 4 4
3 7 8 1 3 
AIDS On The College Campus 
Richard Keeling, M.D. 
*President, AIDS Task Force American College Health Association 
* honored by Surgeon General for " outstanding leadership in the care ofpeople with HIV infection." 

Love from your family and friends 
* appeared on national news programs 20/20, 60 Minutes, MacNeil Lehrer News Hour, Today Show, etc. 
r~~~..~L~.-A ~~ ~ ~~" 
tl' ~,I ~.r 
One of the best speakers in the country on AIDS in the college age population. Happy 

Birthday ­
March 27, 1990 
3:00 pm &7:00pm Engineering Auditorium Kate!! 
Sponsored by: University Health Services Love, Mom, Dad & Sundance 
----­ 
----~--~-------~~-~~­-~-­ ---------~----..------­ 
f"'"------p-ag_e_1_4___ ~ ~  
The Observer  Tuesday, March 27, 1990  

-
Softball makes Detroit take notice 
By CHARLIE POLLARD five. Linn. a sophomore. im­gled to get one run across the Sports Writer proved her record to 3-3. plate. The cold weather that caused The Irish had only two more 
There is a new contender in Dayton to cancel their trip def­hits the rest of the game, but MidwestPrn Collegiate Confer­initely factored into the docile the timely string of four con­ence women's softball. hitting by both teams. The ball secutive singles provided 
The Notre Dame women's was not jumping off the bats of enough offense for the victory. softball team declared its ar­either team. Thus pitching, de­rival to the conference's upper fense and opportunistic hitting The sweep raised the overall echelon this weekend with a were the keys in both games. record of the Irish to 6-7. The sweep of three-time defending The Irish showed poise in team's MCC record is 2-0. A champion Detroit. The Irish finding the necessary amount year ago, the Irish lost two of thus gained the upper hand on of all three clements. Most sig­three games to both Dayton the regular season title with nificantly, the Irish defense this and Detroit. As a result. the identical 1-0 victories on season had let down at times, Irish settled for a third place Saturday at Alumni Field. allowing their opponents to finish in the conference. 
The doubleheader with take advantage. Against the Detroit had originally been Titans however. the defense With this year's fast start. scheduled for Sunday. When was outstanding. committing the Irish seem determined to Dayton cancelled their Friday only two innocuous errors in improve upon that finish. In twin billing with the Irish due two games. only their second season as a to the cold weather. Detroit Sophomore co-captain Ruth varsity sport, the women's and Notre Dame decided to do Kmak pointed out that the de­softball team appears ready to battle on Saturday afternoon fensive improvement keyed this contend for the title. Kmak instead. weekend's victories. spoke for the team when she 
It was all the same to the ''The defense was great," said evaluated the significance of 
Irish. They struck for the only Kmak. "Over the break we were the weekend sweep. 
run of the first game in the shaky. so it was really impor­
fourth inning. Freshman tant against Detroit that we "Two great wins. Beating 
Debbie Boulac singled home played good defense and we Detroit gives us lots of confi­
Laurie Sommerlad with two did." dence," Kmak said. "It shows 
outs. Sommerlad had singled The second game paralleled us that we can take the confer­
and advanced to third on a the first. In the second inning ence this year." 
base hit by Hachel Crossen. of the nightcap, consecutive 
That lone run proved to be singles by Crossen, Boulac and Results and details of 
enough as winning pitcher Folson left the bases loaded for Monday's doubleheader at 
Missy Linn scattered five hits junior co-captain Kathy Valparaiso will appear in 
and one walk while striking out Vernetti. Vernetti promptly sin-Wednesday's Observer. 
Baseball asks spring umpires not to strike 
Pill LADELPIIIA (AP)-Major Attorneys for the American Phillips said umpires would 
league baseball has asked a and National Leagues and the return to work for opening day. 
federal court to prevent urn-umpires' union were not im-April 9. 
pires from boycotting spring mediately reachable by tele-Exhibition games started in 
training games. saying it would phone. Florida and Arizona on Monday 
violate no-strike and grievance Richie Phillips, head of the with minor league umpires 
clauses in their contract. umpires' union, has said urn-working games. 
A hearing on the request for pires would not work spring The complaint said the 
a temporary restraining order training to protest the way leagues' collective bargaining 
is set for 10 a.m. Tuesday be-regular-season games were agreement with the umpires, in 
fore U.S. District Judge Norma rescheduled after the recent effect through Dec. 31, contains 
L. Shapiro. lockout ended. The umpires mandatory grievance and 
Baseball filed papers Sunday. said they should have been con-arbitration procedures for set­however they were not released suited before the reshuffling tling disputes between the par-until Monday afternoon. was final. ties. 
I I I
r--------------·----------------------,I ~ ~@@ & @@~@~~~ ~~~~~~~ 
1 THE NOTRE DAME COMPUTER LABS NEED YOU FOR FALL, 1990. 1 1 POSmONSAVAILABLEFORQUALIFIEDPEOPLEAT ALL LABS. 1 
: BASIC REOUIREMENIS: : I MACINTOSH-MS Word 4.0 expertise; Excel, SuperPaint, and Cricket Graph Skills I 1 DOS--005 3.3+, WordPerfect 5.1, True Basic, Lotus, and DBase III+ expertise I 
I ADDmONAL REQUIREMENTS: I I I 
I HAYES-HEALY ARCHITECTURE 1 1 Business major with working knowledge of Architecture or Engineering major 1 I TSO commands for the mainframe. Know-having experience with CAD programs 1 I ledge of FAIRMODEL, Systat, Mystat, Soritec, and programming inC or PASCAL. I I LINOO, and Cricket Graph also helpful. COMPUTER/MATH BUILDING I I HESBURGH LIBRARY Math or Science major with Mac and I : Also beneficial: 005/MAC file transfers, basic UNIX expertise, a working knowledge : I knowledge of TSO commands, and experience of Cor PASCAL, and Advanced I I with Excel, SuperPaint, and Cricket Graph. Graphics experience. I 
I •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I 1 Application fonns will be available in Room 246, Hesburgh Library. 1 1 Applications will be accepted through April 12, 1990. 1 

·--------------------------------------1 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL VOLUNTEERS 
VISIT TO THE WEST SIDE AND 
DISCUSSION WITH NEIGHBORHOOD LEADERS 
Tuesday April 3, 1990 3..5 p.m. 
r:mim!l
.m• 
~ 

*Come learn more about the neighborhood you'll be helping and deepen your volunteer experience. 
Dumars to miss four weeks 
DETROIT (AP)-Detroit Pistons starting guard Joe Dumars will miss at least four weeks after breaking the same hand he broke last year, the team said Monday. 
Dumars, averaging a ca­reer-best 18.4 points per game, suffered a rracture of the third metacarpal bone on his left hand when he tried to break a fall during Saturday's 105-98 loss at San Antonio. 
"When it first happened. I thought, 'Oh my God!' It was the same area of the hand that I hurt last year." Dumars said. "I can't even hold this piece of paper in this hand-it's too heavy." 
Dumars. 26, is in his fifth year in the league. lie was a member of the NBA Eastern Conferenee All-Star team last month and was the MVP of last year's NBA Finals, which the Pistons won in a four-gamn sweep over the Los Angclns Lakers. 
Kaplan LSAT prep­We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty 
on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you 
the finest test preparation possible. 
Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? ... It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test chang~. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. 
Want proof1 Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 
!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
6/11/90 LSAT Class starts 3/29/90. 
10/6/90 LSAT Class starts 9/6/90. Sign up in South Bend before you go hare and save 10%! Reserve your place in Sept. class now. 
• Visiting Scholar Series UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
AT&T 

Concentration in Gender Studies Series 
Gender and Families 
wed.,March28,1990 Susan Miller Okin 
4:15PM 

Hesburgh Library ProfessorofPoUtics, Brandelo Univ.; Vlolting Prof...,r, Harvard Unlv. Auditorium 
Justice, Gender and Families 
reception foUows Prof. Oldn'alecturt in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
The AT&T Visiti"g Scho'-sm.. is a progrllln of tire College ofAm aou1 Ldtns, 
U..iTJerSity ofNotre D,.,.., aou1 is made possible by • B'""' from tire AT&T 
Founthltion. 
fqr moP'l! i"fonrwlitm, 
amilid: Dr. Killhlarii-!Rlisdul/c Progrlllfl mGDulo Studits U..iTJerSity of Notre Dame Notre D.,., lrtd. 46556 
(219) 239·8184 


Tuesday, March 27, 1990 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
7 p.m. Film, "Teorema." Annenberg Auditorium. Spon­sored by NO Communication and Theatre. 
9 p.m. Films, "To Love, Honor and Obey," "It Scares Me to Feel This Way." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
4 p.m. "Notre Dame and the Post-Cold War World," Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, auxiliary bishop of Detroit and president of Pax Christi USA. Hoom 121 Law School. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies. 
8 p.m. "Scintillating Fiber Detectors and the Supercon­ducting Super Collider." Dr. Handa! Huchti, professor of physics. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by College of Science. 
8 p.m. "Calling the Shots," a lecture and video presenta­tion by Mrs. Carolyn Kelly, Alcohol and Drug Education coordinator. Montgomery Theater. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Hoast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo Monte Cristo Sandwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

33 Eden's 48 Buffalo pros on proprietor ice 34 Where Augustus 50 Relish died 52 Little eel 351ndian 53 Top players in a restaurant? 
tournament 54 Trunk

37 Teachers' org. 55 Ancient Asian 
40 Exacted 
56 Done
41 Aid a thug 

58 The Venerable 43 Ending for 
-,English 
young or old 

scholar 44 Fall flower 62WW IIGovt 46 Astaire's sister agency et al. 63 Ear: Comb. form 
JAY HOSLER 
ACROSS 
1 Closemouthed one 
5 Composer of "The Merry Widow" 

10 "-Holden": Bacheller 14 Prefix for dynamic 15 Puff up 16 Valley 17 Australian glee? 19"-boy!" 20 Small guitar, for short 21 Milton called this "ignoble" 22 One or the other 24 In the rear 26 Kind of lark or mouse 
28 Offspring Abbr. 30 Part of a saddle 33 Guanaco's 

locale 36 Put up, in a way 38 Donkey, in Dijon 39 No mere talker 40 Terror 41 "-boyl" 42 "-the King's 
Men": Warren 43 French legislative 
body 44 Detest 45 Gandhi 47"-quam 
videri," N.C. motto 49 Models 51 Certify 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

final word? 
THE FAR SIDE 

GARY LARSON 
55 Up-to-date 57 Secular clergyman, in 
France 59 Durocher 60 Knievel 61 British 
vagabond 64 Strike out 65 Horatian product 66 Kennedy and 
Koppel 67 Goddess of 
discord 68 Ventures 69 Words of 
approximation 
DOWN 1 Town north of Naples 2 Kin of onions 3 Court decree in Canada 4Bon­(witticism) 5 Famous race site 6 Site of the first Olympic games 1 Zenana 8 A.BA member 9 Fixed leftovers 10 Reviser 11 Maine anger? 
13 Close 18 "-looking at 
you I" 23 "-ItMy Way" 25 German 
dam-reservoir 27 Possessions 29"­
Knowledge," 1971 film 31 "For-usa child is born . 32 Juicy fruit 
SPELUNKER 



YOUR 



,..--------~~---~-~--------~~----~-...-~-~-~------~ ­
High school star Bailey won't live up to hopes at Indiana 
paQe 16 


Men foilists falter, finish fifth in NCAA 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 

Despite finishing thn third clay of this 
year's NCAA tournament tied for first place, 
the Notre Dame fencing tnam 's hopes for a 
national title have greatly diminished. 
A new NCAA format this year awards an 
ovnrall titiP for all weapons in both the men's 
and women's divisions. Two second-place fin­
ishes in men's sabre and women's foil had 
the Irish hot in pursuit of the championship. 
However. a surprising lifth-plaee finish for 
the normally strong men's foil team has left 
the Irish battling for evt~n a top four finish. 
"Wt~ lost only one foil match all clay," said 
Irish assistant coach Mike Marx, "But that 
They were all dose bouts" 
While tlw foil squad eruised through their 
other matclws, the loss to Penn put them on 
the dPfnnsiw as they then had to battle to 
11nish 11fth. 

Columbia took tlw men's foil competition, 
with I'Pnn State second. Yale third. and Pnnn 
taking fourth. 

So what hope is IPI't for the Irish now? 
"WP did exactly what we didn't want to 
clo-IPaVP it up to our epee Warn on the last 
day," said ft-ndng manager Mark Byrrw. "On 
TLH~sday our npee is up against Penn and 
Penn Statf' in the sanw braekct. Wn haw to 
hope that sonwonc like Princ£~ton gets hot an 
knorks ofT Columbia." 

Ovf'r tlw ('oursn of thn season, the Irish 
ep!'P tnam remained the biggest question 
see FOIL I page 12 
-

Sports 
Tuesday, March 27, 1990 
Time to work on the fundamentals 
NO defensive line learning defensive tactics of Bumpas 
By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
Everymw starts on an nq ual basis. 
In new Notre Danw d!'fPnsive line coaeh Dick Bumpas's scheme of things, the 11rst snv­eral clays of spring football practice arc primarily tnaching days. Tlwre will bP plenty of time to nvaluatl~ person1wl later. 
"Hight now is not so much an nvaluation time as it is a tnach­ing time," Bumpas said. "Everyonn is an NJual playPr with an equal amount of mps. If they get equal teaching time, then whnn thn timn conws for thmn to show what they ean do. they'll bn preparncl and tlwn we'll makn an evaluation." 
Ileac! eoaeh Lou lloltz bnlievns tlw 11rst six to ten days of' tlw spring season should be spent teaehing players the fun­clamentals. After a short bn~ak. the majority of' the rmnaining spring dates will be devoted to scrimmaging. 
"We do a lot first and then we break," Holtz said, "and then 
-ll'll!lliii"'.._IIJJI.. 
The Observer I David Lee 

As the NCAA championships went into its fourth day, the men's fencing team hurt its chances of winning by finishing fifth in men's foil. 
Baseball takes two in spite of weather 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
Appan~ntly torrents of' rain and snow don't 
occur only in South Bend. 
The Notre Dame nwn's basf'hall lf'am. 
sehecluled for a full four ganws ovt'r tlw 
weeknnd. completed only two, the otlwr pair 
being snowed out against Indiana. 
The Irish, now 12-4. made tlw most of tlwir 
ecological situation by taking both games of 
a doublehnacler on Sunday versus Butler 
after being dPnif~d tlw opportunity to do 
likewise against tlw Hoosiers of Indiana. 
In cold and windy weather conditions thn Irish managed to clnfnat MidwnstPrn Collegiate Confernnee rival Butler by scores of 3-1 and 4-2. This fnat was dorw largPJy by eompetnnt pitching sincf' tlw 40-degmn tem­pnraturn and tlw 10-15-m.p.h. winds blowing m wem not conducive to high seoring. 
"Butlt~r is a much improwd basPIJall team," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "Butler is going to raust~ havoc in our ronfenHH:P bf'­fore it's over. With thn wnatlwr conditions cold and windy. I'm proud of tlw tf'am com­ing through wit.h two wins, not panicking, and roming through in tlw dutch at the f'JHI of tlw games." 
In tlw first contest. stmior righthandf'r Brian l'iotrowicz pitdwd thn first romplntf' game of the season for tlw Irish. lie allowf'd six hits, no walks and o1w unearnf'd run in seven innings. Tlw only senior starter on tlw team, he lowered his eanwcl run average to 
2.43 and raised his record to :~-2. see BUTLER I page 13 
wn scrimmagn a lot tlw last 
half. That way WI' haw mPnting 
tinw and nvPrybody's tlwrP for 
installation." 

As thn Irish mowd into thnir fourth of 20 spring practicP sessions inside tlw Loftus Cnnter, tlw clefPnsive linenwn opnnecl with agility drills. prac­ticPd fPncling ofT blockers and mixPcl it up with tlwir ofTensiw count<~rparts in livn seven-on­snvnn drills. 
Bumpas's tnaching focusl's on smart. aggrPssivn defpnsivP play-sonwthing which should fit the dPI'nnsiw linenwn on tlw Irish rostPr wlwn that crucial nvaluation period arrivns. 
"What I look for is if a guy is aggrPssivP," Bumpas said, "if he will chase tlw football and try to make big hits. 
"The thing l'vP btHm most pleased with has lwnn tlw atti­tudP and niTort of tlw playPrs. All of tlwm haw worked hard 
and worked well." 

Senior quad-captain Chris Zorich. who bench pressed 4(>0 pounds at the team's winter conditioning program, returns at nose tackle. Zorieh was rep­
rimanded by lloltz for !wing too aggressive in his wal to punish tlw Irish ballcarriers at Monday's practice. 
Senior tackle (iPorge Williams, hark from a yt>ar of academic inPiigihility. hopes to rt-turn to tht' form lw displayPd as a startPr on Notrf' l>anw's l!JSS championship tf'am. liP Wf'ighed in at :w2 pounds this 
winter.  somPthing  that  ron­ 
l'erns lloltz.  
'"Boo'  (Williams)  nf'eds  to  

lose a little weight. hut lw is a forrt~." Holtz said. "liP is what you rPI'Pr to as an anrhor. IIf' is tlw first guy I would pick in a tug-of-war." 
Both sf'nior Bob Dahl and ju­nior Troy Hidgley would make l'apahle starters at dt>fPnsive tackle. Dahl startf'd all 12 rt>gular-season ganws for tlw Irish .last Sf'ason hut did not make tlw trip to thf' Orangf' Bowl. Hidglny, who harkf'd up Zorich at nose tackle last season, playt~d impressivPiy in Dahl's absence at tlw Orangf' Bowl. 
see LINE I page 12 
By now almost evnrybocly in thn nation has heard of Damon Bailey. the talented guard who led Bedford North Lawrence to an Indiana Stat!' lligh School basketball championship. The story of how Indiana University coach Bob Knight has benn drooling ovm BailPy since hn was in eighth grade has littcn~d an alarming amount of copy in sports pages across the country. 
In short. Bailey was the consummate high school basketball player. lie was a team playnr, a 32-point­per-ganw scorer, and now he is a sta!P champion. 
lie  has  nourished  despite  the  constant  media  
attention gnnnratnd by Knight's  almost fanatical  
obsession with him as a player.  

Bailey's success is bound to end next year when he becomes a freshman at Indiana. lie will be hard-


pressed to break into an Indiana lineup featuring such talented young players as Pat Graham, Calbert Cheaney and Greg Graham. 
Too much will be expected of Bailey, a 6-3 guard who has made his living by driving to the basket in high school. While Bailey's press clippings would 1111 volumes, his outside jump shots do not 1111 baskets frequently enough to be11t a quality shooting guard. 
The favorite son of Ileltonville, Ind. will not be able to take it to the hole against the best guards in the Big 10. lie will be forced to refine his game and usc his outside shot to set up his drives rather than vice versa. 
Bailey is a smart play<Jr who eventually will make the necessary adjustments to be a collegiate success (but never an All-American). llis freshman year, however, may be long and frustrating. 
The Stanley Cup Playoffs arc approaching, but nobody seems to care. Although the National Hockey League has a great product to offer, Commissioner John Ziegler and his associates have 
done a lousy job of marketing the NIIL in tlw UnitPd 
States. 

The fnw U.S. eitizens whose local cable TV 
companies pick up the Sports Channel will have tlw 
opportunity to see futum stars like St. Louis's Brett 
I lull, Buffalo's Pit~rrP Turgeon and Lue Bobitaille of 
Los Angeles battle for NIIL suprem;u:y. Tlw rest of 
us will remain in tlw clark until tlw NIIL nngotiates a 
legitimate network TV eontraet. 
Prof'pssional hockey will remain a sncond-ratP sport in the eyes of Anwrican sports fans until Ziegler ean put tog(;ther such a eontract. David Stern brought the NBA out of its dark ages through effective television marketing; it's about time that Zingler n~cogniznd that lw eould do thn samP. 
Do you think you have seen tlw last alternatitve to the NFL now that the USFL is dead and gmw'? Think again. 
Tex Sehramm, former president of' tlw Dallas Cowboys, is forming the World League of' American see WORLD I page 12 
Men's SUPER Heavyweight Tee Shirts Major College & University Prints & Resorts Logos by Russell Athletic Values to $24.00 

NowS799 
Excellent Quality! 


CLOTHING CONCEPTS 
Men's
lllllIIill :I!\~ 


()31:

HEAVYWEIGHT
m 
em
Men's & Ladies' 

FLEECE WORKOUT
m 
~::;;
UNION BAY TOPS &SPORTSWEAR

,.... 
Imperfects 
ct>tn

1DAY ONLY! 
SHORTS $599
Values to $30.00 NOW $5.99 Or 
3-:e

. . 
Knee Length 
2 FOR $10.00 
)>­
o•
_tn 

~r-~~~~~~~.-----~-----------.........................~ -·0
C5z

0 tf'Vn nt1!llll C/ # //1 ..l,. "'ij"'ftiiD®U'ii§ .... 
• z 
VUARNE(l ~ I,. I {(}~ ~ 
(;.J •• 
C/)0
-. 
--<

~ ~ OiliiiA'i msr 
'<0 

:::1: 
Men's Fila, Vuarnet Men's Code Bleu 
rom
en_

0 Prince & le cog Sportif TEES-SHORTS MOCK TURTLENECKS & TEES 
ACTIVEWEAR SPORTSWEAR
t!­
~~ 

i.Ji#ii!i4i4Wi@i·i·i If Perfect $24.00 Value
1 
rom

w 
REG. $28.00 $ Values to $55.00 
co ::a

a: I 
999 
·o

RBll NOW $799·$999 
I 
ffl_

NOW NOW $9.99·$12.99 
I\) (I)

1­
~m

ch 
z 
0(1)
Men's & Ladies 
O::::I: 0 

~ 
::a
SHORTS

Q2 IEJ ~~ i~~~: R ~oo•~ 'i 
-I 

Special Selection 
u,

0 
Life's A Beach-Sundek-California Beach Co.-Surf Fetish 
0

MEN'S TEES-Great Collection of California Surf and Athletic prints 
• 
oC :!1
a: 
99

0 
~ 

Values to $18.00 TEES! TEES! TEES! NOW$5 
0

~ 
::a 

t: 
)>o 
X'HoniE , uC] ~I\. '-l ~ ~t~~i.:­
$20

Q2 /Kkv 
'/' ( ~ ' ~~ . ._,
~ 
0 
0

~/• LtC:C:OOt... ' 
...:. LADIES'/JUNIORS' OCEAN PACIFIC & 
MEN'S SHORTS -SHORTS 
:::1

a: 
L.A. GEAR SPORTSWEAR$ 
0

Latest Surf & Active Styles $1299~ g Assorted Current Styles f99 
z

Values to $36.00
tn . Reg. $25.00-$35.00 
en

Q2 ~ 
::a

w~ ~~-------------P--~~~------.---------------~----------4 ,;,
tno ~-1JNIII11D1f QL
.._OFF SHOrE 111111H1 '""-abok~' 
I

ffi g> = '"~ $299LADIES' ~ -I
t!10:: Men'sOFFSHORE&OCEANPACIFIC DENIM SHORTS OCEAN PACIFIC TEE · 
0 

W cn SPORTSHIRTS By UNION BAY SHIRTS & REEBOK TANK TOPS 
±

cj ~ AssortedShortSieeveCalifomiaStvles $999 Reg. $26.00 S1299 Special Selection Only NOW 
~w~--------------z~ ..--------------~--------------------------~ oz 
~~ /~/)--~ Eto . '-" :e 
:::! ;£ adldaS..,; ~~ MEN'S me· p~~ fit ;; E If--anne. -~ Le1ther Basketball• Tennis • Running • Aerobic • Track ~ z ~ --~ ~ SHOES $1999 • ;
W:::J :1: u ....._~ Hi Tops& Lo Tops 10 
'3499

New Balance
S s;
Values to $65.00 !!!II!! 
.....~ 1DAY ONLY.' • ~HOLIDAY INN UNI~ERSITY AREAQ
:S -MAIN BALLROOM :SE3 TUESDAY, MARCH 27TH VJSA~P> 515 DIXIEWAY N. 
10:00 A.M.-7:00P.M. -NEAR CAMPUS 
2226 


Men's SUPER Heavyweight Tee Shirts Major College & University Prints &Resorts Logos by Russell Athletic Values to $24.00 
Excellent Quality! 


2226 2226 


Men's SUPER Heavyweight Tee Shirts Major College & University Prints & Resorts Logos by Russell Athletic Values to $24.00 
Excellent Quality! 


::::1: 
~ 
1-;" 
a:w 
.,!. 
I 
U) 
z 
0 
I= 
0 
0 
oa 
c(
a:: 
0 
>­
__. 
t: 
~ 
I 
.,_ 
a:: 
~ g 
en · 
~/~ 
LADIES'/JUNIORS' OCEAN PACIFIC & 
L.A. GEAR SPORTSWEAR$ Assorted Current Styles 

f99 
Reg. $25.00-$35.00 

-HOOlE '
::... -. ._..,
X! ~.tt ~s·~·l 
liCCOOIIII ' 
MEN'S SHORTS -SHORTS 
Latest Surf & Active Styles 
$1299 
Values to $36.00 
U)C\.1
w~ ..~------------~~----..-------.--------------~-----------4
~:i ~:~~~::~:~: ~=C:TEEQ2$299
DEN\!o!gRTS

w ~ SPORTSHIRTS By UNION BAY SHIRTS & REEBOK TANK TOPSd ;?:-AssortedShortSieeveCalifomiaStyles sggg Reg. $26.00 S1299 Special Selection Only NOW ~00.________________.______________~--------------------------~ z 
~~ ..-------------~f--~/1----~
__--j---------------~~~().--~.------~~--~----~
~ ~ adldaS ._,;~~ MEN'S me· p....) * ~ E If--anne. -~ Leather Bliaketball• Tennis • Running • Aerobic • Track .... z ~ --~ ....,.-SHOES S1999 : 
W::J 
::E u ~ Hi Tops& Lo Tops $ • e
99

S ~ New Balance values to $65.00 34 ~ s; ~ 1oAv oNLvr [eJ _ HOLIDA~~~~ ~:~~:~~~AREA~ 
a TUESDAY MARCH 27TH • • • VISA~ 515 DIXIEWAY N. 10:00 A.M.-7:00P.M. 1-1 NEAR CAMPUS 
2226 







