
VOL. XXIII NO. 110 FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Spring at Saint Mary's 
ND Law School is ranked 19 in nation 
By L. PETER YOB 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Law School is ranked 19th in the nation, according to a report published in the March 19 issue of U.S. News and World Report. 
Law School Dean David Link said the report is "better than others" he has seen and "surprisingly good and more accurate than ex­pected," but he added that there were some inac­curacies caused by the inclusion of irrelevant £ri­teria that mixed up the ranking order. 
"It is very hard to do a survey like this," Link said. The ranking is accurate in general but not in the specific placement of schools. 
Link agreed that an evaluation of instructional materials is a good criteria for ranking law schools, but he said that "academic reputation is a bad criteria." 
"It is bound to be inaccurate," said Link, be­cause "it is the result of a survey of law schools." 
Lawyers and judges are in a position to evalu­ate the academic quality of recent graduates be­cause they are hiring recent graduates from vari­ous schools, according to Link, but "law schools don't know much about other law schools." 
The legal-education section of the American Bar Association discouraged cooperation with 
the U.S. News Survey. Link Believes that "most

The sun shone over two of Saint Mary's residence halls on a spring-like afternoon this week. LeMans Hall on the left and 
Haggar Hall on the right are both involved in a discussion about room picking procedures at the college. 
Idaho supports abort. restriction 
BOISE, Idaho (AP) -The Both sides agree it would ban Idaho Senate passed and sent more than 90 percent of the to the governor Thursday the 1,500 abortions performed in most restrictive abortion law of Idaho each year. any state, one that could be-Right To Life forces had al­come a test of the U.S. Supreme ready begun focusing their lob­Court's commitment to legal-hying effort on the governor. ized abortions. Andrus was also the target of 
If signed by Democratic Gov. abortion rights advocates, who Cecil Andrus, the measure vowed to keep the battle alive. would take effect July 1. Andrus has declined to an-"We don't intend to quit," nounce his intentions on the bill said Sally Trott of Freedom but has reiterated his long-held Means Choice, citing polls that anti-abortion stand. indicate Idahoans may oppose 
"Abortion in my opinion is abortion but are more opposed cruel and unusual punishment," to government intervention in Republican Sen. Roger Madsen, their lives. the Boise attorney who helped "We will fight against the draft the legislation. told the governor's signature on this Senate before the 25-17 vote. bill, and we will fight after 
"It is the destruction of life, that," Trott said. "We have and what can we say about the legal recourse. We will repeal future of our society when de-that bill." fenseless victims are destroyed for the convenience of personal The bill was patterned on a choice?" Madsen said. "If we National Right To Life model are to make a mistake on this that has been rejected by other issue, we must make it on the states as too restrictive. But it side of life." is the version that abortion 
The law would make abortion foes want for the test of the illegal except in cases of non-U.S. Supreme Court's commit-statutory rape reported. within ment to its 1973 Roe vs. Wade seven days, incest if the victim decision that legalized abortion. is younger than 18, severe fetal Some constitutional experts deformity or a threat to the have warned that the bill is so mother's life or physical health. restrictive it likely would not withstand the the high court's scrutiny, and could cost the state as much as $1 million to defend. 
Right To Life forces main­tained the issue was whether Idaho would lead the nation in protecting the lives of the un­born. 
"We know it will be struck down" in the lower courts, said Kerry Uhlenkott of Right To Life of Idaho. "That's what we want. The Supreme Court jus­tices have invited us to chal­lenge Roe vs. Wade." 
The legislation cleared the House 13 days ago. 
Civil penalties of up to $10,000 for a first offense, $30,000 for a second offense and $50,000 for each addi­tiona! violation could be assessed against any physician performing or attempting to perform an abortion. Women undergoing the procedure would not be legally responsi­ble, and there are no criminal sanctions in the bill. 
Earlier this week, the Pacific territory of Guam enacted a ban on all abortions except to save the mother's life. That law is being challenged in court. 
see IDAHO/ page 4 
see LAW I page 4 

Campus Life discusses bill of students' rights at ND 

By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
News Writer 
A bill of students' rights was discussed by The Cam­pus Life Council on Thurs­day. 
The bill was proposed by the Legal Department of Student Government, and passed unanimously by the Student Senate on March 5. 
Megan Hines and Greg Volan, the authors of the bill, fielded questions from members of the Campus Life Council (CLC), which is an 18 member body made up of students, faculty, rectors, and administrators. 
The Bill of University and Student Relations "is a statement of trust," according to the Legal Department. Its focus is in the area of judicial proce­dures. The bill expounds a student's right to due process, which entitles him or her to have a fair hearing, judged by a fair and impartial board. The bill further states a student's right to be judged by one's peers, the right to have an open hearing, and the right not to be punished collec­tively. 
The issue was raised by faculty and rectors that there is a pastoral concern in violations, where 'the uni­versity is interested in the vi­olator's personal learning and growth, and that it is not just a question of "crime and punishment." 
Hines stressed that the purpose of the bill is the co­operation of students and the administration in judicial hearings, in order to better the relationship , and "make students more re­sponsible." 
Due to the one hour time constraint for the meeting, only the first two of eight articles of the bill were dis­cussed. · Matt Breslin, stu­dent body president and chairman of the CLC, called another meeting for next week to continue the discus­sion. 
Senate elections occur on April 1, and this will cause some turnover in the mem­
see CLC/page 4 

SMC students select dorm rooms for next year through lottery system 

By KRISTIN BAZANY 
News Wnter 
Saint Mary's students have been participating in room selections for the 1990-91 school year throughout this past week. 
Room selections are done by a computerized lottery system which allots a number of available rooms in each dorm for each class according to its size. This system has been used since the 1984-85 school year. 
Students are required to pay a $200 room deposit by a certain date in order to receive a number in the lo~tery. Thos~ students who don t pay their room deposit by the deadline are given lower lottery numbers. 
Each hall is allotted a certain number of spaces for each class with the exception of seniors, who are allowed unlim­ited spaces in each hall. 
The junior class is allotted 145 spaces in LeMans, 130 in Holy Cross, 80 in McCandless and 40 spaces in Regina. Sophomores are allotted 75 spaces in LeMans, 90 in Holy Cross, 120 in McCandless and 119 spaces in Regina. 
The incoming freshmen are 
• ND housing policy/page 10 
assigned rooms according to what is available after the lottery. A focus is put on each student's smoking preference and sleeping schedule. 
Those students dissatisfied with their assigned room may put their name on a waiting list for a more desirable room. 
Minni Owens, housing coordinator for Saint Mary's, says the only complaints she has received this year are con­cerning seniors who have been assigned to Regina Hall. According to Owens, the de­mand for single rooms was higher t~Is year than ev~r be-Saint Mary's sa~ d. "The ~ousi~gfore, which forced 18 semors to department IS lackmg m be assigned rooms in Regina organization, therefore many Hall, which has smaller rooms students suffer greatly. Their than the other dorms. lack of organization is unfair 
"The lottery may not be what to the entire Saint Mary's everyone wants it to be, but it community." is positively fair in every way A common complaint voiced that I know of from one by students is the existence of a student to the next. The system space quota for all classes used today is also much more except seniors. Many students efficient than it used to be, " feel there should be no space Owens said. quota, and room selection 
Although Minnie Owens should be based on seniority. claims no controversy exists Sheila Corrigan, a junior at with the room selection pro-Saint Mary's :...~.;.. ""'~ cess, many students have ex-ridiculous that underclassmen pressed dissatisfaction. 
Molly McMahon, a junior at see ROOMS/ page 4 

The Observer Friday, March 23, 1990 
r---------------~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A 'minor l·eaguer's' view of turning 21 

Hemember when birthdays meant bal­loons and ribbons and ice cream and cake? Each was an EVENT. As we aged, however, certain birthdays assumed special significance. Michelle Dall At six, we started 

Heal School; at Viewpoint Editor thirteen, we became Teenagers; and at six­teen, we could Drive and Date. Yet, each of these years was only a step toward the HEAL landmark.... The Big 2-1. One particular privilege accompanies the entry into adulthood ....the LEGAL con­sumption of alcohol. Junior year is gener­
----------~-----------------­
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, March 23. 
Lines show high temperatures. 

Yesterday's High: 48 Yesterday's Low: 46 Natiol'\'s High: 97 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's Low: 10 (Great Falls, Mont.) 
Forecast: Cloudy and cold today, with a high of 35. Light snow expected tonight with a low of 20. Chance of snow possible

FRONTS: 
Saturday with a high of 
30. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © ~ ~ [IT] EZ] r2]
' ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
ally the turning point. Students with early birthdays begin bar runs and master the obnoxious art of under-cutting the under­dassmen; others, cursed by fate and late birthdays, watch helplessly as their friends pass them by and abandon the pop ma­chines for stronger spirits. One by one, their buddies pull rank and leave them to the 'mimir leagues.' 
Since my birthday's in June, I fall into the latter category, and I've heard all the lines. At doors, for example, my friends will step aside and let me enter first. This is NOT a polite gesture, but, rather, an additional opportunity for harassment. "Women and children first," they'll say sweetly. "I guess you qualify for both! Would you like a HOOT beer?" I am rarely amused. 
I don't want to turn twenty-one just to drink legally, although it would be nice to go out with my friends and mix and mingle at the local watering holes once in a while. Yet, looking in on the "mature crowd," I can honestly say there are definite advan­tages to being a late bloomer. I've seen countless "elders" await their birthdays with initial excitement and eventual dread. Yes, drnad .... and Downright Fear. It's sad but true. Since booze and bars have become such a prominent part of birthdays on college campuses, many stu­dents get "baked" instead of caked. The guest of honor's gifts usually consist of free drinks administered by fun-loving friends 
and accommodating bartenders. Each shot becomes a candle on the unlucky recipient's cake. 
Escape is elusive. Protests go unheeded as eager friends turn deaf ears to their pals' pleading. Moreover, revenge is sweet, and those subjected to similar past fates are unlikely to either forget or forgive when the roles are reversed and they are no longer the prey. As a result, the "celebrations" usually turn ugly. By night's end, the victim typically stumbles, crawls or careens back to his/her room, falls in bed buzzed and wakes up hung as the "bash and crash" mentality takes its toll. 
Happy birthday? 

Complain though I may about my minor status and assorted aliases, maybe a late birthday isn't so bad after all... ..! guess I am a "spring chicken." 
OF INTEREST 
The Morrissey Manor Film Festival will Cheerleader and Leprechaun Tryouts be held Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Cushing Auditorium. will be held tonight and tomorrow night beginning at 7 The festival will feature short films made by each Notre p.m. in the J.A.C.C. Pit. Dame dorm and awards honoring the best entries will be A N t D t d t 
presented. ny 0 re arne S U en S attending Irish Accent's Dinner Theater are reminded to bring their Notre Dame Photo ID to the performance. 
WORLD 
Twenty people were killed and 56 injured in The formation of East Germany's first non-south Africa in black factional fighting and protests Communist government could be sped up as the Social against the white-dominated government, police and news Democrats agreed Thursday to discuss joining a coalition reports said Thursday. Authorities also arrested or fired government with an alliance that won national elections. 109 police and prison officers who mounted strikes and The left-leaning party, which finished second in Sunday's protests Wednesday to demand equality with white em-balloting to the Alliance for Germany, refused to work ployees. The violence was reported the same day U.S. Sec-with a right-wing party in the three-party Alliance. Al­retary of State James Baker met with President F.W. de liance leaders left the door open to sueh an arrangement. Klerk to encourage more reform by his government. de Klerk said he would like to lift the national state of emer­gency as soon as political violence subsides. 
NATIONAL 
Alcohol is responsible for more than 1oo.ooo A lawsuit filed by the Ku Klux Klan against city deaths annually in the United States, stealing 2. 7 million officials in Pulaski, Tenn. was dismissed because thn Klan years from drinkers' lives, federal health officials re-failed to object to the city's request for dismissal. "We ported Thursday. But while alcohol is a major health con-are glad it is over and feel that this is the most logical cern, more research is needed to determine which outcome," Mayor Dan Speer said after Wednesday's de­drinkers are at how much risk, the U.S. Centers for Dis-cision by U.S. District Judge John Nixon. The lawsuit ease Control said. Using computers, researchers pro-stemmed from Pulaski's denial of a parade permit on .Jan. jected how often various causes of death are related to 13, the Saturday before the Martin Luther King Jr. holi­drinking. They then projected the loss of life -and lost day. Members of the Klan gathered anyway for a news life-years -from drinking. conference and marched later in nearby Lawrenceburg. 
INDIANA 
A printer was seriously injured Thursday in an Marilyn Quayle, speaking to an assembly of explosion that demolished a print shop in downtown professional and business women, noted a growing num-Berne, authorities said. A spokesman for the Adams ber of working mothers, and later urged well-to-do County Sheriffs Department spokesman said the 1:30 women and men to slow their careers while their children 
p.m. blast in the downtown of this eastern Indiana town are young. Mrs. Quayle, the wife of Vice President Dan was caused by a severed natural gas line. The cause of the Quayle, told several hundred women at a YWCA Tribute to cut in the gas line wasn't immediately available. Women luncheon Thursday that the "traditional family" 
-a working father and a mother home with the childre!'! 

PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-74 71 Frtday'a Staff 
News Ad Design Sandra Wiegand Amy Eckert Mike Owen Kelly McHugh 
Jeanne Naylor Accent Quinn Satepauhoodle Colleen Cronin Paul Pearson 
Production 
lisa Eaton Chris Labaree Brian Grunert 
VIewpoint Ameli J. Gallanosa 
Systems 
Sports 
Cesar Capella Ken Tysiac Deirdre Bell 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS a member ot the Associated Press. All reproduction nghls are reserved 
-is declining. 
ALMANAC On March 23: 
e In 1909: Hoosnvnlt lnavl's for African safari sponson~d by the Smithsonian Institution and National Geographic. e In 1933: H1~ichstag gives llitlnr power to rule by dn<T<~<·. e In 1944: U.S. and Britian meognizc the Bolivian govern­
ment. e In 1964: Supreme Court rules U.S. cannot legally ques­tion foreign expropriation of property. e In 1987: FIori d a millionaire gives Oral Hoberts $1.:~ million after nvangelist said he would din if fund­
raising goals were not met. 

CAMPUS 
John Keane, Gillen dean of the College of Business Administration and Korth Professor of Strategic Management, has been elected to the board of directors of the North Central Indiana Medical Education Foundation. Keane, a Fort Wayne, Ind. native and a 1955 Notre Dam,e grad­uate, assumed the Gillen deanship in January 1989 after having served as eighteenth director of the U.S. Bureau of the Census under President Ronald Reagan. 
Notre Dame students and others in the Michiana region will take part in a march and a Mass Saturday to observe the tenth anniversary of the murder of Archbishop Oscar Romero of San Salvador. Marchers will depart from the parking lot of St. Joseph High School at 3 p.m. and walk to St. Stephen's Parish where a Mass will take place at 5 p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings tor March 22, 1990 
Volume in shares 
175.93 Million 
NYSE Index 184.70 {7 2.12 S&P Composite n 335.69 v 4.05 Dow Jones Industrials 2,695. 72 -{} 32.21 
Precious Metals 
Gold {7 $2.20 to $394.70 I oz. 
Silver{} 2.7¢ to $5.13/ oz. 
Source: AP 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
The PICTURES from the JPW SLIDE SHOW can be picked up in the Junior Class Office during office hours. 
Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer 
Irish literary greats to visit ND 
By CINDY PETRITES 
News Writer 
Renowned Irish poets and "the country's best graduate students of Irish literature" will unite this weekend at Notre Dame for the Fourth Annual Graduate Student Conference on Irish Literature and Culture. 
Graduate students froin some of the best universities in the country will deliver papers on subjects ranging from writers Yeats and Joyce, to Irish folk­lore and the Irish Women's Suffrage Movement during the two-day event cosponsored by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The purpose of the confer­ence is "to encourage graduate students in their work, provide a forum ~o discuss ideas, and bring people together who enjoy Irish music, literature, and culture," according to Conference Coordinator Christopher Strathman. The theme of the conference is how culture and politics connect in Irish art and literature. 
"A combination of the schol­arly and the social," is how Strathman described the event, emphasizing that the writings of the graduate students, many 
Contenders for student senator named 
Special to The Observer 
Contenders for Student 
District One senator, to repre­
Senator during 1990-91  have  
been announced.  
Running  unopposed  for  

sent Alumni, Badin, Carroll, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey and Pangborn Halls, of whom are delivering their papers for the first time, would be accessible to an un­dergraduate audience. 
Conference sessions, open to all free of charge, consist of the presentation of three pa­pers on such topics as "Contemporary Irish Fictions" and "Women Writing Ireland/Ireland Writing Women" read by graduate stu­dents. 
Following the readings will be commentary and response from scholars in the field, and a question and answer period which, Strathman said, he hopes will provide "lots of in­teraction between the deliverer and the audience." 
Conference highlights include the display of the O'Neill Collection of Rare Music Manuscripts and Books in the 
Rare Book Room of Hesburgh Library, an extensive collection including old scores of Irish music and books assembled by Chicago policeman Charles O'Neill. Following the display, John Kennedy and Friends will perform selections from the collection. 
The "gem of the conference," said Strathman, is the poetry reading at 8 p.m. Friday in the 
is Bill Allen, from Alumni Hall. 
Running for District Two se­nator, also unopposed, is Lisa Bostwick of Walsh Hall. District two includes Lewis, Old College, Sorin, St. Edward's and Walsh Halls. 
Contenders for District Three senator are John Brislin of Cavanaugh Hall and Mike Gaffney of Zahm Hall. District Three includes Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan. Stanford and Zahm Halls. 
Running for District Four se­nator are Richard Delevan of Flanner Hall and Joe Wilson of Grace Hall. District Four in­cludes Flanner, Grace, Knott, Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West and Siegfried Halls. 
Running unopposed for Off­Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The event will feature readings by John Montague, one of the best known Irish poets of this generation and author of The Rough Field; Paul Muldoon, an upcoming young Irish poet and author of Meeting the British; and Michael Carey, an lrish poet from New York who now makes his living as a farmer in Iowa. 
Boston College and· Rutgers University hosted the confer­ence in following years. In Strathman's opinion, Notre Dame was an ideal choice as hosting ground for the 1990 conference, both because of its obvious "Irish connection," and because its midwest loca­tion will allow a cross-section of schools to be represented. 
The conference will conclude Saturday with a lecture and discussion of "Culture and Politics: the Irish Literary Renaissance" delivered by University of Toronto Professor Robert O'Driscoll, a "mixed bag" recital of Irish music, poems, and stories per­formed by Treasa O'Driscoll at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, and the passing on of the torch to next year's hosting school. 

FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 
CONSULTING PERIOD MARCH 19-29, 1990 
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS ANSWERED BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOU COLLEGE PROGRAM SEE THE MARCH FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER SCHEDULING DETAILS 
DONT MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 


FRESHMAN FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 
They are sorted according to last name. Questions? Call Wendy at x2798 

Bill of rights discussion 
Student Senate members Raja Singh, Lisa Bostwick, and Megan Hines,seated left to right, and other members of the Campus Life Council discuss proposals offered for the Student's Bill of Rights. 
Romero is remembered for aid to poor in San Salvador 
By LIZ HOLTZ 
News Writer 
Archbishop Oscar Romero be­lieved that the plight of the poor was an international problem, according to Father Joseph Nangle, who spoke last night to commemorate the 1Oth anniversary of Romero's assas­sination. 
Romero was shot dead by a right-wing death squad member while presiding at Mass in a San Salvador hospital chapel on March 24, 1980. 
Romero was the Archbishop of San Salvador for three years and was dedicated to the plight of the poor, calling for eco­nomic, social and political re­forms, Nangle said. 
"At his cathedral in San Sal­vador, Romero wanted a voice for those who had no voice, science for those who had no science, and intellectual support for the poor," he said. 
The army fired on the mourn­ers at Romero's funeral while they buried him in the cathedral where he presided, and many mourners, rich and poor alike, come daily to pay the reverence 



FRESHMAN 
they feel for him, Nangle said. 
"He is still their bishop, their friend and their martyr," he said. "Even today the cathedral is extremely drab because Romero felt the poor needed essential goods rather then a new cathedral." 
When the radio station where Romero broadcasted was blown up by opposition forces, Romero remained faithful say­ing, "With people like this it is not hard to be a good shep­herd," according to Nangle. 
The University of Central America was active in the plight for the poor, Nangle said, and there was a great need for more institutions like this one. 
Nangle said, "Romero saw the need for a personal institu­tion for the poor. The plight of the poor is an enormous histor­ical scandal." 
"Our universities have the power to effect the poor of Cen­tral America in a positive man­ner and they await Catholic America to help them or give them a sign that we are with them in some way," said Nan­

page 4 The Observer Friday, March 23, 1990 
Law 


16 8 12 15 3 28 39 19 24 19 16 45 and 36 25 19 17 11 44 

Spelunker 
18 24 20 30 31 42 

see page 19. 
RANK/SCHOOL OVERALL AVERAGE AVERAGE SCORE LSAT STARTING SCORE SALARY 
3 11 44.0 $63 310 4 4 2 
000 3 10 16 3 450 7 7 16 6 44.0 2 18 24 10 44.0 
14 13 11 27 
12 13 9 6 16 12 


Idaho 
continued from page 1 
In Maryland, an anti-abortion 
filibuster in the state Senate en­
tered its eighth day as both 
sides in the battle over an abor­
tion rights bill appeared loeked 
into positions that lert little 
room for compromise. 
Supporters of that bill, which would allow unrestricted access to abortions until the fetus is viable outside the womb, moved to within a vote of ending the debate Tuesday night when they lost a cloture vote by a 31-16 margin. Two-thirds of the 47­member Senate, or 32 votes, are required to shut off debate. 
Maryland Senate Majority Leader Clarence Blount compared the divisiveness of abortion debate to the early days of the Civil War, when the state was torn between staying with the Union or seceding. 
"We're faeing a moral and 


Rooms 
continued from page 1 
are given spaees in the good halls that juniors would have wanted. There are even some students who graduate without ever having lived in the hall of their choice." 
Another criticism of the system is that some students receive special privileges be­cause of their involvement in student activities. According to Owen<o. thn<;~> d•1rlnnt<; who 
WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< 'O.JRLIFE 
Officers included are the president and vice-president of student government, and the student representative for the vice-president of Student Affairs. Owens stated the reason for these privileges is the requirement that these students live on campus during the school year. 
American Heart Association 
HILOSOPHY: Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, March 25th 
8:00 -9:00 pm Room 204 O'Shag 

REFRESHMV SERVED 
For further information contact: Prof. David Solomon Room 337 O'Shag, 7534 
religious issue. We must face it beeause it is not going away," said Blount. 
CLC 

SafeWalkcontinued from page 1 
bership of the CLC, and may "adversely affect the progress made on the bill," said I lines. 


In the next meeting, some membnrs of the CLC said they hoped officials from the Office 







Call 283-BLUE
of Student Affairs would at­
tend, as there were none pre­
sent at Thursday's meeting. 
In other business, the CLC 
2 5 8 3 
passed a resolution urging the Office of Student Affairs to issue a writ­ten clarifieation of university 
Student Escort Service policy regarding campus events during Junior Parents' Weekend, beeause of the eon­troversy surrounding the ean­
7 Nights a Week eellation of the Freshmen Formal. 
Sunday-Thursday 7:00pm -1:00am
xoress ress~ 
CF NOlANA NCORPORATED ® 
RE8UME8 TYPESET AND PRINTED 


Friday and Saturday 7:00pm -2:00am
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOl.ITH BEND (219] 277-3355 21 5 S. 1 1 TH STREET • NILES 
616 684-2080 


Friday, March 23, 1990 
Jewish and Catholic roles changing in U.S. 

By ASHBY JORDAN 
News Writer 
The changing status of the Jewish and Catholic communi­ties throughout American his­tory was the focus of a lecture given by Arthur Hertzberg, Professor of Religion at Dartmouth College, Thursday. 
Hertzberg, who is president of the American Jewish Policy Foundation, compared the two communities and their future roles in the United States in a lecture titled "Jewish and Catholic Immigrants to America: A Jewish Perspective". 
lie focused on how the two communities have assimilated into the mainstream of American society. He compared and contrasted the two groups and discussed how each started from similar backgrounds and yet took different routes to be­come a part of American soci­ety. 
The primary reason, he said, why Catholics and Jews became part of mainstream society at different rates involved the ed­ucational status of each group, and how each group viewed public education in America. 
Jews in America became more successful earlier, Hertzberg said, because they used the Protestant public educational system of the late 19th and early 20th centuries as a route to success. 
Catholics, according to Hertzberg, viewed Protestantism as a threat and abandoned public education and started a private system of their own. 
Because each group used ed­

ucation as a tool for advance­
ment, Hertzberg said, each was 
able to become successful. He 
said that the culmination of 
both groups' success came 
during the 1960's. 
Hertzberg said that the peak of Catholic success came when John F. Kennedy was elected president. The Jews, who were firmly established economically after World War II, became a political entity when they sup­ported the defence of Israel. 
The assimilation into American society led to other problems in both groups. Because both had become part 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
St. Paul's dark side 
The campus band St. Paul and the Martyrs performed their version of Pink Floyd's classic album Dark Side of the Moon Thursday night in Washington Hall for charity. 
of mainstream America, Catholics and Jews lost part of their religious and cultural identity. This problem, he said, is the new concern for both communities. 
Both Catholics and Jews need 

GETACTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAIIIE 
(.jJ,ii»IJl·Utj 
a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum e Newspapers • Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
WORLD AWARENESS SERIES PRESENTS 
The Struggle For 




STICE 
FRIDAY • March 23, 1990 6:30pm • South Dining Hall• Centrall}merican Dinner Reservations Required, call--=4,39-7668 

in Central America 
OVERSEAS Week Cosponsored by and DEVELOPMENT 
NETWORK 
to maintain their status as part of American culture while fo­cusing their attention to the resurgence of religious and cul­tural identity, said Hertzberg. 
By doing so, Hertzberg said that both communities can re­tain their influence in America, while reestablishing a heritage based on religious and cultural beliefs, rather than on opposi­tion to and fear of mainstream America. 

is currently looking for interested people to fill the following position: 
News Writer 
If you are interested in writing for the News Department please attend a meeting on Tues., March 27, in the Foster room in LaFortune at 8 
p.m. If you are unable to attend, please call Kelley or Janice at 239-5303. 

Mon .. March 26. 1990 
4:!5 PM 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Mon., March 26 
8:00PM 
Lyons Hall 
Wed., March 28, 1990 
4:15PM 
Hcsburgh Library Auditorium 
For mort information, contact: Dr. Kathlt~n Halischak Program in ~mhr 
Studit!f 
University o(Not.re Da.me Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 (219) 239·8094 
Concentration in Gender Studies Series 
Gender and Families 
Harriette Pipes McAdoo 
Professor, School of Social Work, Howard University 
Marriage: What's the Future? a conversation with Harriette Pipes McAdoo 
Susan Moller Okin 
Professor of Politics, Br8lldeis Univ.; Visiting Professor, Harvard Univ. 
Justice, Gender and Families 
reception follows Prof. Okin'e lecture in the Heeburgh Library Lounge 
TM AT&TVuiting Scholan SttrUs;., a program o(the College ofArtrand Utters, University ofNol~ Dantl!'!, and is: nt.ac:U poe:tibk by (1. grunt from the AT&T Foundation. ~ 
~~eddfh6:::~ 
uniY6rsJIY • 
•s Invited· EverYone 


~------~-----~--­
1 
I 
I i 



THE MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL 
Before you go out... 
Check out what films ND dorms produced! 

**** 
"Welaughe we cried, it was better than Cats." Gene Siskel 
and Roger Ebert 

"An event "A spectacular 
so special 5 ton-studded 
that it only extravaganza 

comes once of epic in a lifetime!" proportions." 
Saturday March 24 7:30p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER 
Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer 
page 7 
Change in Soviet Union causes erosion of civil-military system, historian says 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 
The recent wave of change in the Soviet Union has led to a struggle between civil and mili­tary forces for power as social­ist ideals have become more difficult to achieve, according to historian Mark Van Hagen. 
"The old civil-military system has virtually eroded and there has been a decline in the mili­tary state," said the Columbia University history professor in his lecture, "The Future of Pro­letarian Sparta: Civil-Military Relations and the Politics of Reform in the Soviet Union." 
The civil-military system prior to the 1980s was based on the socialist concept of self­sacrifice for the benefit of the union. Van Hagen termed that concept "proletarian Sparta." 
"There is a disparity between the ideology and the reality of proletarian Sparta," he said. 
!\s the social status of the So­viet people has declined over the years there has been a de­crease in patriotism and sup­port for the military. Increased vocal opposition has prompted the government to make concessions to unsatisfied groups, the professor said. 
Various elite groups and counter cultures are competing for power with the military. Draft evasion has become a se­rious problem as almost one half of the draftees are late in reporting to their assigned posts, Van Hagen said. 
"The 'Me Generation' of young Soviets reject military service because it would impinge on their individual lifestyles," explained Van Ha­gen, who recently wrote a book on civil-military relations in the Soviet Union from 1917 to 1930. 
The civilian press, taking ad­vantage of new freedoms, has criticized the army for its "degenerating influence on so­ciety." A recently formed offi­cers' union often counterat­tacks the negative reports with its own criticisms of the media, Van Hagen said. 
An important factor in the recent changes is Soviet Presi­dent Gorbachev's retreat from the traditional militarized so­cialist structure, Van Hagen asserted. The government used to prioritize the military, obedi­ence and proletarian Sparta. 
The leaders also had a dis­dain for foreign markets and a mistrust of foreign nations. Gorbachev has removed some international barriers, granted personal freedoms and de­creased the reliance on the mili­tary, Van Hagen said. 
The history professor gave a detailed description of previous reform movements in the Soviet Union since the Russian Revolu­tion. 
In the immediate aftermath of the civil war the revolutionist soldiers assumed control and helped the Bolshevik regime form a system of military so­cialism, he said. 
It was assumed that a social­
ist state would need an army 
only temporarily to maintain 
order. Van Hagen argued that 
the initial government was ac­
tually an "organic labor defense 
state." The Red Army became 
the main force behind the 
building of the Soviet state. 
After 1917, the soldiers evolved to working class status and gained eligibility for party membership for the first time. "The Soviet party used the Red Army as a vehicle of social mo­
..-------------------------·bility for recruiting disen­
chanted citizens to the party." 

Irl.sh Conference 
The party ranks eventuaify
split between the military and 1---------------------------"'1civilian members, the professor said. As a result, in the early
4'h Annual Meeting of the Graduate Student Conference on 1920s there were several at­Irish Literature and Culture 
pts to demilitarize the So-party. Although these
March 23'd-24'\ 1990 

ovements failed, the periodUniversity of Notre Dame 
ked the beginning of infor­demilitarized socialism. 
W B Yeats and Rev. Charles L O'Donnell. C.S.C during Yo!ats's 1933 visit to Notre Dame 
Poetry Readings: 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 8:00p.m. Friday, March 23"' 
Michael Carey 
John Montague Paul Muldoon 
Lecture: 
Robert O'Drisco/1, "Culture & Politics: The Irish Literary Renaissance" 
3:30 p.m. Saturday, March 24" at the CCE 
Irish Music: 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 8:00p.m. Saturday, March 24" 
The 0 'Net// collectton of Irish Music & Books Is on display at the Rare Book Room in the Hesburgh · Conference events listed are open to the public 
Dart wins award in local ad competition 
see SOVIET/page 9 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
The video produced for DART (Direct Access Registration by Telephone) recently won the top award in a local advertising competition, a representative of Golden Dome Productions said. 
According to Christopher Salvador, a producer at Golden Dome Productions, the video was judged by a national advertising organization against other advertisements done by companies in the South Bend area. The DART video won second prize in its category. There was no first prize awarded this year. 
The video won in the category of specialty advertising which, according to Salvador, is "a video done for someone who has something special they need to show someone." 
Salvr-' :, who worked on the DART video, said that he was pleasantly surprised by the results. "You never know how it's going to do.... They [the judges] bring a lot of different standards when they judge," he said. 
Salvador said that he enjoyed working on the video. "We had a blast working on it...lt's of the caliber we like to produce at Golden Dome," he said. 
According to Salvador, Golden Dome does not usually enter its work into competitions like this. since "we aren't an advertising company." However, he said, with this video, "We just said, 'What the heck?' We had done some great videos this year." 
Golden Dome plans to enter the video in other upcoming advertising competitions. 
In addition, Lora Spaulding, associate registrar, said that there will be two changes in the DART system from last semester. 
First, students can now enroll in Religious Studies and Education courses offered at Saint Mary's College by using the system. "They won't have to fill out a form to register for them," Spaulding said. 
Second, DART will try an option that will allow students to "look at a course as an exchange." According to Spaulding, students who have already selected a full course load may look at other courses without having to drop the courses for which they have already registered. Students in this situation previously were not allowed to look at other courses without dropping a course. 
The changes will most likely take effect for this upcoming registration period, although the exact dates are not definite. 
The Observer 

a e 8 


--~---~--.....-----~----~~­
--~ ~---~----~-·-·... ..-----------.----~ 

The Observer 
E.G. Bailey 

In memory of Archbishop Romero 
Father Joseph Nangle pauses after a speech he gave in commemoration of Archbishop Oscar Romero who was assasinated ten years ago. 

House committee toughens smog control 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House committee approved a compromise Thursday on tougher smog controls in a clean air bill, while a proposal for financial aid to coal miners still held up movement on simi­lar legislation in the Seante. 
The 38-2 vote by the House Energy and Commerce Commit­tee created one areas of likely conflict when the Senate and House versions of the two bills eventually have to be reconciled. The Senate earlier in the week rejected some of the same smog controls. 
Meanwhile, Senate leaders worked with the White House mental Protection Agency to 
impose an air pollution control 
plan if local officials fail to act,

Attention News 
would bring many small busi­nesses under smog-control regulations in cities with the

Department: 
dirtiest air, and would eliminate 
certain waivers now possible 
on grounds that compliance
On Tues., March 27, there will be a meeting of all 
would cost too much. These 
Assistant News Editors, Copy Editors, Day Staff 
were provisions the Senate rejected earlier in the week. 
and Reporters at 8 p.m. in the Foster room, 3rd 
The Senate spent much time floor LaFortune. Anyone who is interested in 
on marginal amendments. 
working in the News Department is welcome to attend. If you are unable to attend the meeting 
Spider's Irish Fans: 
please contact Kelley Tuthill or Janice O'Leary at The Observer at 239-5303. 

TOWNHOUSES 
FOR RENT 
2,3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
~::::::::::::====::============:!.,
1 

Dave "The Body" Archer is 21 and waiting for you. Call him at 1597 and wish him a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 

and Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., Thursday night and aides to in an attempt to find a way to Senate Majority Leader George resolve the dispute over the Mitchell, D-Maine, said the is­coal miner assistance. sue would be held over to next 
A vote on the amendment, week. Earlier in the day brought to the floor by Byrd Mitchell had said he expected it nearly two weeks ago, has been to "be resolved one way or an­postponed at least twice. Senate other" by the end of the day leaders are fearful that Byrd Thursday. has the votes to get it passed. That could unravel the The House committee vote compromise legislation worked came after two days of negoti­out with the White House, they tions among committee leaders, fear, because of the temptation including Rep. John Dingell, D­it would pose for lawmakers to Mich., the chairman. Many claim similar aid for other in­members voted only minutes dustries. after having first seen the inch­
The coal aid amendment did thick document. not surface again Thursday or The House provisions would continue to allow the Environ­
page 9 
Hazelwood convicted of misdemeanor only 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) ­A jury on Thursday acquitted Exxon Valdez skipper Joseph Hazelwood of being drunk and reckless in connection with the nation's worst oil spill, but convicted him of a minor charge of negligent discharge of oil. 
After deliberating for just 10 1/2 hours, the jurors absolved Hazelwood of one felony and two misdemeanors stemming from the disaster. The Exxon tanker ran aground and spilled nearly 11 million gallons of oil into Prince William Sound on March 24, 1989. 
The misdemeanor charge on which Hazelwood was convicted carries a maximum sentence of 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine, far less than the 7 1/4 years and $61,000 fine he could have faced if found guilty on all four charges. 
Superior Court Judge Karl Johnstone set sentencing for Friday at 1:30 p.m. 
There were bursts of ap­plause in the court room as the judge read the three verdicts of "not guilty" to counts of crimi­nal mischief-a felony-reck­less endangerment and operat­ing a vessel while intoxicated. 
Juror Terrill Smith said he and the others on the panel based their decision on the law and evidence, and "the state just didn't have the evidence." 
Hazelwood's New York lawyer, Michael Chalos, a former classmate of his at the New York State University Maritime Academy at Fort Schuyler, N.Y., clapped the skipper on the shoulder and hit the counsel table with his hand at the first "Not guilty" verdict. 
The normally taciturn defen­dant smiled broadly for the first time in the two-month­long trial and commented briefly to reporters, saying, ''I'm just relieved. I was ner­vous." 
''I'm going to try to get along with my life.... I'd like to go back to sea," Hazelwood told reporters at a news conference later. "That's what I do." 
His lawyer said he would be­gin negotiations with Exxon to get the former skipper's job back, and would fight expected efforts by the Coast Guard to revoke Hazelwood's captain's license. "The only employer he has ever had was Exxon," Cha­los said. 
"We think it's a great victory 
for Captain Hazelwood," Chalos said. "We had great faith in the jury system. The only charge he's been convicted of is a low­
level misdemeanor." 

Jim Morakis, a spokesman for Exxon in New York, said the company, which has fired Hazelwood, was "pleased that the ordeal of the trial is over for Capt. Hazelwood and his family. 
"The verdict would seem to 
confirm the view that the 
grounding of the Exxon Valdez 
was an accident," Morakis 
said. "In light of pending litiga­
tion any other comment would 
be inappropriate. 

Alaska Attorney General Douglas Baily said at a news conference in Juneau that he did not regret the decision not to seek criminal charges against other crew members, and disputed suggestions that the state had tried to make Hazelwood a scapegoat. 
"It was always my view that 
the captain of that vessel is ul­
timately responsible, and I 
think that to have gone down 
the chain, at least on the basis 
of any evidence we had, would 
have been inappropriate," Baily 
said. 

One of the jurors said he found unbelievable the prosecu­tion's complicated effort to prove Hazelwood was intoxi­cated through backward calcu­lations. The skipper's blood was not tested until long after the disaster, and juror Jewff Sage said he and the other pan­elists figured out that from the prosecution expert's calcula­tions, the captain would have had to consume an enormous amount of liquor before his ship ran aground. 
Soviet 
continued from page 7 

the military lost prominence in government because of the power struggle between mili­tary leaders. "By 1925, how­ever, the standing army had 
gained a legitimacy in the mili­
tary state." The army influ­
enced the economic and politi­
cal activities of the party, Van 
Hagen said. 

During Joseph Stalin's years as Soviet premier, the govern­ment increased the size of the army and the status of the sol­diers, he argued. The Soviet 
Union turned inward economi­
cally and culturally. The gov­
ernment emphasized patriotism 
and military values, he added. 

After World War II until the 1960s there was a retreat from the proletarian sparta and a expansion of political partici­pation, Van Hagen said. 
Leonid Brezhnev, General Secretary of the Communist Party from 1964 to 1982, re­turned to a partial proletarian Sparta strategy. Brezhnev in­creased the armed forces and restored the military as the dominant factor in the economy and government. 
Van Hagen's lecture was part of a series on the historical perspective of perestroika, sponsored by the Notre Dame history department. 

APpholo 

Demonstrating for democratic elections 
Demonstrators in Taiwan surround the car of Nationalist Assemblyman Luo Wen-tang Wednesday as he arrives to cast his vote for President shortly before protesters destroyed the car. 
NO dorms are kept all four years 

By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
In comparison to the Saint Mary's procedure for room picks, Notre Dame's system al­lows students to remain in their dormitories all four years. 
While Saint Mary's uses a campus-wide lottery system, Notre Dame's office of Student Hesidences lets each dorm use its own system of room picks, thus ensuring that students may stay in their own dorms. 
According to Evelyn Heinebold, Director of Student Hesidences, her office uses a computer system to generate a list of randomly selected stu­dents for each dorm. Individual dorms do not have to use that list, but may make their own random list, or base the list on Grade Point Averages. 
Grace Hall, for example, uses a room pick list based on G.P.A.'s, Reinebold said. Alumni Hall conducts its own lottery. The computer program used 
by  Student  Residences  does  
make  an  adjustment  that  
significantly  reduces  the  

chances of the same student's name ending up near or at the bottom of the list every year, Reinebold said. 
Student Residences also sends a list of "Standard Room Pick Regulations" to each dorm, including the following: 
•Seniors-to-be 
choose on the first day of room picks, ju­niors-to-be on the second day, and sophomores-to-be on the third. Hall residents must pick rooms on their specific class day or forfeit their picks. 

• 
Picks proceed from the top of the lottery list. Each student 



Greyhound negotiator to meet mediator 
DALlAS (AP) -A Greyhound Lines negotiator will meet with a federal mediator in Washing­ton on Friday as new incidents of violence were reported in the 3-week-old nationwide bus drivers' strike. 
Company spokesman George Gravley said Thursday that the mediator in the stalled contract talks called Greyhound's chief negotiator, Anthony Lanney, to Washington. No new talks are scheduled between management and·union. 
Federal mediators are trying to reopen negotiations or to ar­range "shuttle diplomacy" be­tween the sides, said Jim Power, spokesman for the Fed­eral Mediation and Conciliation Service. Henewed violence "is cnrtainly giving the effort a lit­tle more pressure," Powers has five minutes to choose a room after his or her name is called. Failure to pick within that time period will result in forfeiture of his place until his or her class has finalized its picks. 

•All 
rooms must be filled by the choosing student. For ex­ample, a student choosing a double must present two ID's in 

•A 
$75 fine will be levied against all members of any particular room which violates any of the rules of the room pick procedure. 


order to  reserve  that double.  
No  rooms  may  be  partially  
filled.  

Room picks are scheduled for April 25 through April 27. However, it is permissible for dorms to reschedule its room pick dates to its own conve­nience, Reinebold said. 
said. 
"It doesn't provide a sound basis for getting together. They need some level ground to work on. (Violence) is always coun­terproductive," he said. 
Jeff Nelson, a spokesman for the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions, said he had no knowledge of discus­sions between union officials and federal mediators. 
But Nelson called the meeting between the company and the mediator "a first step. Maybe they'll find it in their hearts to talk to their employees soon. 
"We are absolutely ready to meet at any time," he added. 
The meeting comes against a backdrop of more violence aimed at Greyhound buses, in­cluding the first in Texas. That happened overnight Wednesday 

is looking for a 
Day Editor 
Please contact Cathy Meere at 284-5228 or 239-5303 
when a bullet was fired at a bus carrying 30 people in San An­tonio. 
The bullet struck but did not penetrate a service door on an entrance ramp to Interstate 35. No one was injured and the bus continued on to Dallas, Travis County sheriff's officials said. 
"It did not penetrate the sec­ond window of the double win­dow," sheriffs Lt. George Meek said. "It left a hole in one pane but not the second, because it contains thick insulated plas­tic." 
Jah, 
t 
night 
NIGHTCLUB 
at our 
1()-2 
S~at 

Friday, March 23, 1990 
Thatcher candidate loses to socialist by a great margin 
LONDON (AP) -Prime Minis­ter Margaret Thatcher's candi­date was trounced Friday in a by-election in central England, losing the Conservative Party stronghold to an opposition so­cialist by a surprisingly wide margin. 
The result marked the Con­servatives' worst rout in a spe­cial parliamentary election in 50 years and was likely to fuel speculation that the Tories might try to dump Thatcher as leader this fall. 
The Labor Party captured the prosperous Mid-Staffordshire district with a 9,449-vote ma­jority, overturning a majority of more than 14,000 votes held by the previous Conservative Party legislator. 
The result, declared early Friday, reflected anger among voters at soaring 15 percent in­terest rates that have hiked the cost of home loans and an un­popular new local government tax. 
Labor candidate Sylvia Heal, a social worker, took 49 per­cent of the vote, way ahead of the 33 percent for the Conser­vative contender, accountant Charles Prior. The centrist So­cial and Liberal Democratic Party's Tim Jones trailed with 11 percent. 
Television networks earlier reported two exit polls con­ducted by Harris and National Opinion Poll as showing a large swing of more than 20 percent from the government to Labor, something Conservative Party 
chairman  Kenneth  Baker  
called, "disappointing."  
"Clearly  we  are  going  

through a period of unpopular­.ity. r think it will be tempo­
rary," Baker said. "The Labor 
Party is tonight the passive 
beneficiary of the protest vote." 
"People are absolutely fed up with Mrs. Thatcher," declared Labor Party spokesman .Jack Cunningham. "She is out of touch, she doesn't seem to un­derstand their problems ... and she doesn't,seem to care." 
Underlining the bad news for the Tories, a British Broadcast­ing Corp. survey Thursday night of the four most recent opinion polls across the country showed Labor averaging a 21­point lead nationally. This was Labor's biggest lead since Mrs. Thatcher won a third successive term in 1 'J8.7. 
A year ago, the Tories had a 1 0-point lead nationally. 
From Mid-Staffordshire, pollsters reported an underly­ing antipathy toward Thatcher personally among many of the people questioned right after they voted in the prosperous. semi-rural district. 
Harris reported that 84 per­cent of defecting Conservatives said Thatcher should resign be­fore the next general election, which must be held by mid­1992. Among defectors ques­tioned by the National Opinion Poll, 38 percent said she should quit. 
Harris' exit poll for Indepen­dent Television News at the 10 
p.m. close of voting showed La­bor winning 50 percent of the vote with the Conservatives get­ting 32 percent and the eentrist Social and Liberal Democratic Party 11 percent. ITN said Harris questioned 2,369 people. 
Get ready for Spring Break 
FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR AVERY UMITED 11ME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DETAILS ..• 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
272·7653 

University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln. 
-Friday at 1 0 PM­the 

CRAZY JAMAICAN 
one ofthe best live reggae acts you·u ever see. 1Wce the test: Go to this show determined to stand still. You will fail.. 


Friday, March 23, 1990 
page 11 
Ihe ~ObserNer~-=o 
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
~l1son Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager Jol1n 0 Bnen Kathleen o·connor 


News Editor... . ....... Kelley Tuth1ll Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor. . ...... M1cl1elle Dall Ad Design Manager............ Amy Ecker1 Sports Editor.......... . ..... Greg Gulley Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor.... . ...... Colleen Cromn Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor . . .............. Enc Ba11ey OTS Director ..................... Dan Sh1nmck Saini Mary·s Editor ....... Connne Pavlis Controller....................... Chns Anderson 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary"s College It does not necessar~ly reflect the poi1C1es of the adm1111strallon of either tnstitution. The news IS reported as accurately and ObjeCtively dS poss1ble. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1n10n of the maJority ol the Ed1tor 1n Ch1el. Managmg Editor. News Ed1tor. V1ewpomt Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor and Samt Mary"s Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present t~e v1ews of the authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty and thP tree expreSSIOn of vary1ng opinions on campus through letters. 15 encO\Hilqed 
Negative female stereotypes common on campus 
By Liz Havel  simply be unthinkable. No seri­ The  Observer  at  times  also  that humor and off-hand com­ women?  What does  this  sav  
ous news organization or edu­ mocks attempts at identifying  ments only serve  to reinforce  about Notre Dame  as  an aca­ 
"Women just aren't able  to  cational  establishment would  and eliminating harmful sexist  negative stereotypes, so I won't  demic institution? What does it  
face reality without drugs," claimed Scholastic's "This  stand for such a blatant ex­pression of prejudice, even in  behavior. The Observer's Inside Column frequently serves as a  belabor the point. Instead, I would like to question the per­ say about us as individuals? Finally, in light of recent  
Week  in  Distortion"  article  the context of humor.  forum for  concerns  raised by  sisting attitudes  that I,  as  a  events,  does  the  Notre Dame  
entitled "Estrogen" (Feb. 15).  Second,  the  Editor's  Note  derogatory  comments  made  member  of the  Notre  Dame  community view sexism  as  a  
The column proceeded in its usual satirical manner, but with  printed a week later Scholastic's Feb. 22  in the edition  against women. The Observer, in turn, has printed replies that  community, and find disturbing.  as  a  woman,  socially acceptableprejudice?  form  of  
a bitterness, exemplified in the  began,  "Apparently,  people  made these complaints  seem  
author's urgent defense of men,  were offended ..."We are then  foolish  by implying  that  the  How  can  Notre Dame,  as  a  
that cannot be ignored. It pro­ reassured  that,  "If  this  had  derogatory comments were not  value-orientated  institution,  Liz Havel is a junior govern­ 
nounced "Understand estrogen,  been  anticipated,  the  article  directed  against  real  female  condone  the  verbal abuse  of  ment major.  
and you  understand women."  would have been revised or dis­ members of the  Notre Dame  
Despite  a  lack  of  scientific  carded." The editor skillfully  community.  
evidence (by the way, estrogen  shifted the blame for the offen­ In addition, social situations  
is a hormone  -not a drug), the  sive nature of the article from  on campus often condone sex­ 
author  continued  to  explain  its author  to  the people who  ism. When I came home from  
women's  supposed  were offended by it. I was stung  the Keenan Review a few weeks  
helplessness, saying "No estro­ by  the  editor's reluctfmce  to  ago and admitted I had found  
gen, no euphoria. No euphoria,  admit that it might have been a  parts  of  it  offensive,  I  was  
no way to cope with life as we  poor judgment to print the ar­ bombarded by statements such  
men  must  every  day  of  our  ticle. I was also struck by the  as, "Lighten up,  " "You have to  
lives."  implausibility of the claim that  go expecting that kind of hu­ 
Being the welHrained Notre  the magazine, "holds no biases  mor,"  or,  worst  of all,  "You  
Dame female that I am, I first  on the basis of gender," when it  should be exposed to that. It's  
considered this article yet an­ printed  an  article  declaring,  good  for  you."  I don't know  
other example of that "humor  "we men see  every day [only]  which  is  worse- the  verbal  
you just have to learn to  ac­ senseless behavior" on the part  abuse or the responses to com­ 
cept." After all,  this is  Notre  of women.  plaints about this abuse, which  
Dame, and we all know that in  The presentation of the letter  imply the abuse is  a  commu­ 
the real world, men and women  to  the  editor  written  in  nity's right.  New gym hours 
are equal, so why bother get­ complaint  about  "Estrogen"  We are given a great deal of  are an  
ting upset over male-female re­ was  subtly condescending  as  knowledge at Notre Dame, but  
lations?  well. The letter was run under a  not everything we learn comes  unwelcome change 
Society, however, does place  headline which read, "Estrogen  out  of  the  classroom.  
negative  stereotypes  on  the  Article  'Distasteful  and  Information considered impor­ 
value and abilities of women  Offensive'." The editor's deci­ tant  enough  to  be  called  Dear Editor:  our  minds.  Those  glorious  
that can be harmful to their de­ sion to quote an emotional por­ "news," whether it be in the  nights are now over, as we find  
velopment in all  areas  of life,  tion of the otherwise reasoned  newspaper  or  the  weekly  We are writing on behalf of a  ourselves  playing  basketball  
including the work place, home,  and legitimate complaints rein­ magazine,  is  given authority  group of freshmen athletes in  without hoops. Why does the  
social situations and the class­ forced the stereotype of whin­ and has a direct bearing on the  Dillon Hall, but we are certain  gym close now at 11 pm since  
room.  When  these  harmful  ing Notre Dame females who  values this community claims to  that we speak for all hoopsters  Spring Break? We  asked  the  
stereotypes  appear  in  a  lack any sense of humor. When  hold.  In turn, the opinions of  who found a car parked under  same question of the gentleman  
Christian academic community,  I read the article, I could al­ students and faculty that  are  their old hoop when they were  who kicked us out of the ACC,  
they need to be addressed.  most hear the sighs in the din­ printed are given legitimacy by  kids. We were able to move the  but we could obtain no answer.  
Upon a second reading of the  ing  hall  of  people  saying,  the fact that campus publica­ car at home, but we have now  We hope and pray this situation  
Scholastic article,  two  points  "There they go again. What will  tions have this authority. The  found a more difficult obstacle  might be corrected.  
struck me. First, imagine if the  those feminists find to complain  values of the  community  are  to overcome.  
term "women" were replaced in  about next?"  also reflected through its jokes,  All year, we have looked for­ Mark P. Johnson  
this  article  with  any  other  Unfortunately, this is not an  which become almost institu­ ward  to  our  11  pm  to  1  am  Mark A. Frigo  
group. Think of the reaction to  isolated incident. Verbal abuse  tionalized through their verbal  study  break  at  the  Knute  Mike X. Livingston  
the  statement,  "Women  just  directed against women is fre­ repetition as well as their repe­ Rockne Memorial Gymnasium.  Anthony J. Cometta  
aren't able to face reality with­ quent  on  this  campus,  and  tition  in  cartoons  and  other  After studying straight through  Joseph J. Macchiarola  
out drugs," if it were directed  when  complaints  are  made  forms  of campus  entertail!­ from dinner five days  a week,  Scott E. Walker  
at a particular race, ethnic mi­ about  this  abuse,  belittling  ment.  this  break  becam·e  our  only  Dillon Hall  
nority,  or  even  men.  It would  replies abound. For example,  We have all heard the lecture  physical outlet after exercising  March 20, 1990  
DOONESBURY  ARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

'OJ 5t:f:, MARX, ROCI< 'N'RfJU. IA/A'fJ OR/61NAU.Y ABafT GIVING VOICE 70 RAW, UNPf<{)(ES5W tMOT/016 -77-113 R!?/35TORMS a= \.:::::::::~~  I Aa&PT THAT. I IJON'T I3VCN TRY TO TAP INTO IT ANYMO!<&. IT'S UNlJI6NIFIW. IN5T/3AI?, I'M 5PtAKJN6 70 TH/3 f3VOWIN6 (,()NCEii?J.6 CF TH£3 MA7UR/3 /.$Tf5Nf3R. ~;v-«=;:... I  JN013&1) Y(X} AR&, JAIII&5. AN[) IN THAT V&IN,it/HY [)(JN'T /A//3 acJ5£31A/ITH YOUR LATEST, "M& /..05tN' 'ran uKe 70 5AYAN'17J.IIAII'1 ABOUT IT~ "'-.....  5URE. IT'S A LITTLE I?£6GA& NUM813R ABOUT 6UM f)t!!"£AS£3.  
~'JM).~~S.  

'You don't need any brains to grow up.... it just happens to ya.' 
Jerry Mathers 
"Leave it to Beaver" 
THE RETU MORRISSE 

MARC JOHNSON 
accent writer 

he Cannes Film Festival it isn't, but Notre Dame's own Morrissey Film Festival 

would never make such a claim. With titles such as "Sex, Lyons, and Videotape," this festival chooses the decidedly sophisticated Notre D community as its 
The Morrissey Film was created one year Kevin Roxas and his Jim Mahony have been to guide it through its Last year's format pro highly successful, and H and Mahony have nothing. 
All dorms were req submit their own films, dorms were represen 
apy for 12 years, angst-ridden, humor. These anxieties in the womb: "I didn't come out. I could my family yelling. born, I wanted to go thought I left my wallet." 
The phrase "date from was coined by Lewis. thing, in fact, in his life is hell." 
lie's also famous for his nature gesture, a kind of less motion to the head... you'll know it when you Lewis gestures constantly doesn't think he could talk without use of his limbs. 
"In my dreams, Satan tures at me. I pay my an extra $15 to gesture. I quire my sexual partners gesture-in fact, when I the girl I can achieve a si neous gesture with, I'll her." lie promises that his tine tonight will be a veri circus of gestures. 
It was a slow climb from t New York comedy dubs tot curnmt hit series. In the ca1 '70s Lewis worked by day a advertising copywriter in N Jersey and by night in Nc · York City doing stand-up c edy. 
He started in California a warm-up comic for Sonny · Cher on tour (a dubious honor?), and appeared fre­quently on NBC's "Lfl.te Nig with David Letterman." "It' nice to be able to be on the show now whenever I wan do most of the talking, tho 

page 13 

entries. No restrictions were 
placed on the works, but Roxas 
stated that most were of a hu­
morous nature. 
e The entries were screened by a dedicated committee from Morrissey Manor, and six films were chosen from the original number. The Morrissey entry was added to these six, and they are most definitely entitled to reap the benefits of their in­credible amount of work. The six finalists, excluding 

"Anything But Love," Lewis has become close with the cast. He describes the atmosphere as "caring," and hopes that the series will be renewed. As for his ambiguous onscreen rela­tionship with Jamie Lee Curtis, Lewis hints that things might 
m get hotter on next Wednesday night's episode. "I don't know what will happen, but if I could 
I i 1-be the show's sexual consultant, I'd love for us to be more than 
t. friends." 
,d Some of Lewis' other projects include his ''I'm Doomed" con­cert that will run on HBO in June. "I don't mean to tease 
~ist you, but there will be some very 
1-famous people, I won't say who, but they'll be revealing deep dark secrets. Not like on Barbara Walters-real secrets." 

In the next few months, he might even be considering making a movie. "I guess I could always do a horror movie . . . about my family." 
Lewis has now even appeared on the cover of Esquire. "The first thing my mom said was, 'When's GQ'!' There's no pleas­ing her." But even with so many things going his way, he still has plenty of neuroses to share. "''ll 
; a always have family, rela­ind tionships, and tormented mem­ories." 
lt And he promises to be "brim­full with problems" for tonight's performance. 

He might even get an audi­ence from hell. 
the Morrissey entry, were then narrowed to one film which won the prestigious title of Best Picture and $100 for its dorm. This year a Best Actor and a Best Actress have also been chosen, but their lovely prizes have not yet been determined. 
"To be honest, some of the original entries weren't that great," said Roxas, but he went on to add that the six finalists "are very well done, and the Best Picture is exceptional." Entries by film majors were ac­cepted and resulted in some very high quality productions. 
Roxas further emphasized the fact that the quality of the end product is not necessarily what matters most. "The Morrissey Film Festival was created to foster dorm unity. If even five guys get to know each other better, then I think it was a success." 
The Morrissey Film Festival will be shown at 7:30p.m. in the Cushing Auditorium. No 
admission fee is required, but 
donations to aid the St. Hed­
wig's Outreach Center will be 
accepted. Morrissey runs the 
tutoring service at this facility. 
1 
~·····,....
..., ... 
. ...... -~ 

·w.:c L~JE:§§lEY 
I :-;;n r \\ .C 
.,..Jo .... 
.J...L.Jl\VlJ 
§'T~\1 A\L 


._p_.ag.._e_14_______________________..:..Th:...::e~O:..::b:::::se:::::rv:..:.::::er:.___________________Friday, March 23, 1990. 
On ''We're #1!!'' shirts and re-inventing the Church 
I met Jesus the other day, vis­iting Sacred .Heart Church, presently closed for renova­tions. Even though lie was wearing a "God Made Brigham Young U. Number One" t-shirt, I could tell it was I lim as soon as I saw the glory. The main al­tar at Sacred Heart has been sent to an angel factory for re­furbishing and a facelift, and lie was studying the torn-up sanctuary as though lie wished He had brought along His car­penter's tools. 
"As the Father's house," I said, "This place is nothing with the altar gone. I could smoke in here without disre­spect, now that the sacramental holiness has been removed." 
"Thank you for not smoking," He said, in the tone of voice He must have used when lie drove the money-changers out of the Temple. 
I said, "The Observer should get a picture of what the churches could look like, if the iconodasm continues." He an­swered, "No more prophecies of doom, if you please." Having been twice-rebuked, I felt like one of those Gospel dimwits who get shot down whenever they address the Son of Man. 
lie said, "The tabernacle will be back by the summer's end, and then this place will be back in business again as the house of God and the gate of heaven. But even $7 million worth of freshly-cleaned frescoes and stained glass windows are re­ally not the answer to a maiden's prayer. Answering a maiden's prayer in the brave new world seems to mean re­inventing the Church." 
sounded as redundant as re-in­
venting the wheel. "Is it desir­
able or possible to re-invent the 
Church?" lie said. "According 
to Luke 1:38, 'With God, noth­
ing shall be impossible;' and 
according to Matthew 9:16, 17, 
'No man putteth a piece of new 
cloth unto an old garment. .. 
Neither do men put new wines 
into old bottles."' 

The surprise was not in hearing the Lord quote Scrip­ture; the surprise was that He quoted from the King James translation. 
"Have you ever noticed," He said, "how the Mosaic account of creation sounds like a poem? In a way, theology and the reve­lation it is based on have an air of poetry, for poetry is what happens when you try to trans­late the truth about God into the kind of language which you use when you're making love, as prayer is supposed to be. 
"The poetry which describes God as a Trinity of Persons identified as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit now seems sex­ist. Re-writing the theology of the Creeds and the Liturgy­which will have to be done as soon as the Church begins women's ordinations-involves much more than neutering the concept of the Father and the Son, so that they can be praised and worshipped as the Parent 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to o Lonely God 

The Lord knows that I'm not the brightest, most scholarly lad He can speak His theologi­cal mind to; maybe I'm confus­ing His opinions with Notre Dame's experience in going coed. 
At first, some of us thought that coeducation was half ae­complished once the plumbing had been changed in the old dorms where the men used to live. Now, after all these years, we're still embarrassed at the presence of the male chauvinist spirit which makes the women on campus feel slightly like sec­ond-class citizens. 
I should have asked the Lord: "Do the boys in Technicolor who run the Church in Rome recognize that they're faced with re-inventing the Church in the 21st century, or sooner? Is this why they reject the ordina­tion of women as an impossible dream?'' 
To tell the truth, I was too shy to mention the pope or Cardinal Ratzinger. However, it was uplifting to hear my up-to­date Lord say He would have to see the women-priests of His re-invented Church wearing the Vatican sport shirts with Ro­man collars, or to throw on fiddle-backed vestments when they preside at Mass, as the lady-vicars in Anglicanism have Once again, when women are 
ordained, more has to change 
in the Church than the plumb­
ing; the least those ordained . can do is to design their own uniforms. 
Perhaps they should invent new rites of salvation which don't involve violence, as though they were commemorat­ing Mary Magdalene being stoned every time they say Mass. At least one Angliean writer has opposed the ordfna­tion of women on the grounds that it would be inappropriate for any woman to preside over a liturgical drama which reealls the shedding of blood. 
If, instead of Jesus, Christ has been "Jessica," this Angli­can argues, then the violence offered her by the males who nailed her to the cross would have unhealthy sexual over­tones. The Harvard Lampoon once dealt with "Jessica" Christ, the "messiah" of women's lib, in a tasteless par­ody. Offering the communion water at the Last Supper, she says, "This is my body." The acclamation of faith from the apostles is, "Hubba, hubba." 
"Better not think about it," the Lord said, when He found this cheap crack in my mind like a sick joke. 
He could re-invent the Church if He wanted to, couldn't He? At least lie could inspire the pope to re-invent prayer formu­las over 1,000 years old, which were written to be intoned by a male presider. The Lord could mental ministry, says Schille­
beeckx, that doesn't involve be­
ing ordained priest, deaeon, or 
bishop. 

In the meantime, Hatzinger in Home talks about the impor­tanee of sexual mystique; listening to him, we eould get a clue to the reasons that the Chureh has refused to ordain women, up to now. 
What I chiefly fear, you see, is the anger that would tear down the Chureh briek by brick, as though the Church couldn't possibly have an agenda that is based on justice and right­thinking, according to the lights the Lord gives the Chureh. 
For more than a week over spring break, l listened to par-· ents who asked: "What can I say to my ehildren, who have given up on the Chureh?" My only answer was: "Conversion is to the Lord. In the light of His truth, the Church is essen­tial; without Ilim, the Chureh need not be a force in our lives." 
Before leaving Him at Sacred Heart Church, I asked: "Why are you wearing the t-shirt touting that Mormon university as Number One in God's sight?" lie answered: "It's a policy de­eision that eomes from being all things to all people." Then He showed me another t-shirt that said, "God made Southern Methodist University Number One." 
Why should Notre Dame be hooked on the idea that God 

CALENDAR OF EVENTS 
(FOR INFORMATION: 239-5293) 
NOTE: Events wUI be held at the Center for Social Concerns, unless otherwise noted. 
Mar. 23-Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m. 
Mar. 29-30­Thunday-Frlday 
Apr. 3 -Tuesday 3:00-5:00 p.m. 
Apr. 6-Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m. 
Apr. 7 -Saturday 
Apr. 8--Sunday 
10:00 a.m.-Noon 
University of Notre Dame  
APRIL 15­ EARTII WEEK (Events co-sponsored with the Environmental Action Club and a variety of campus orgaolzalons)  
Apr. 17, 18, and 20 Noon -1:00 p.m.  Brown bag discussion luncheons with NO professors  
Apr. 17-Tuesday 8:00p.m.  Debate/Panel Discussion by campus experts ffheodore'sln LaFortune)  
Apr. 22 -Sunday 9:00a.m. ll:OOa.m. Noon -6:00 p.m.  EARTII DAY Run for the Environment Mass at the Grotto with Frs. Edward Malloy and Michael Himes Earth Day Fair In the Oeldhouse mall  
Apr. 19-Thursday 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m.  Hospitality Lunch for the benent of l..o8'an Center  
Apr. 19-21  Meeting of Advisory Council of the Institute for Pastoral ami Social Ministry (lbe Center Is a Component of IPSM)  
Apr. 26-Thursday 5:00-7:15p.m.  Reception and Dinner lor former Summer Service Project participants ( sponsored by Alumni Assoc.) (CCE)  
Apr. 30-Monday 8:00p.m.  "Earth Day -1990: Movln8" Towards Tomorrow's Environment" -A lecture by Earth Day founder Senator Gaylord Nelson ( Washington Hall)  
May 4 -Friday 8:30 a.m. -Noon  Meeting of Center for Social Concerns Advisory Board  
May 19-Saturday 11:00 a.m. -Noon  Volunteer Send-Off Ceremony with Edward Malloy, C.S.C (for graduating seniors beginning one year or more of volunteer service) (Washington Hall)  

FRIDAY FORUM lor faculty aaclstalr "What Can a Youn8" Woman Get Ou.t o1Phllosophy101?" Janet Kourany, Department of Philosophy (Theme of Series: '"Raclllm and Sexism In the Clanroom") 
Diocesan Volunteer Pro8'J'am ffeachln8' In New York)­reprNentadves wiD iatervlew seniors who have applied to the pro8'J'am 
Tour ofSoatb Bend's west side nelA"hborbood led by the Soutla Bend Herlta8"' Fo-datlon, followed by cllscusslon and reflections with nelpborhood leaders whose homes will be repaired durln8' "Christmas In AprD." (Deadline lor reptratlon: March 30) 
FRIDAY FORUM lor faculty and stair "Racism aDd the Curriculum: What Can Be Done?" Erskine Peten, Department of English, Black Studies (lbeme ofseries: · "Racism and Sexism In the Classroom") 
Christmas In April -Volunteers will repair and refurbish approximately 50 west side low Income homes (Call Pat Doran at 239-5550 to volunteer) 
Summer Service Project Workshop 
The Center for Social Concerns 
Nurture Life Through Service 
---~------~---------~--­
-----~------~--------------------­
Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer page 15 
~ns!~~on.:~J~~~"!I!£J~rg~!, .R.~pe.~ ,§PoH!!de!,S!~!?!:!~~~~"" 
Anderson made a tiebreaking make it106-106. Robinson then The Trail Blazers trailed 51-before jumping to a nine-point Terry Catledge's inside jumper 
foul shot with 1.2 seconds left and the San Antonio Spurs beat Portland 107-106 Thursday night, ending a 12-game losing streak against the Trail Blazers. 
With the score 106-all, Anderson missed a shot with 
3.7 seconds left but was fouled by Clyde Drexler while going for the rebound. Anderson made his first foul shot and missed the second. 
David Hobinson made a jump shot with 1:06 left and Anderson had two free throws blocked Kevin Duckworth's at­tempt and the shot clock ex­pired, giving the Spurs the ball. 
Robinson had 29 points, 19 rebounds and five blocked shots as the Spurs beat Portland for the first time since April 15, 1987. Terry Cummings scored 26 points and Anderson had _14. 
Drexler led the Trail Blazers with 26 points, and Duckworth had 20 and Jerome Kersey added 19. 
Hobinson gave the Spurs a 102-100 lead before Portland 47 at halftime but opened the third quarter with a 29-12 run, including 10 by Kersey, for their biggest lead at. 76-63. Portland led 82-74 after three quarters. 
Mavericks 116,
Magic 106 

ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) Rolando Blackman scored 32 points and Derek Harper added 27 Thursday night, leading the Dallas Mavericks to a 116-106 victory over the Orlando Magic. 
The Mavericks trailed 84-82 lead with six minutes left in the game. Blackman continually was left open by the Magic as they_tried to double-team Sam Perkms and Roy Tarpley inside. Blackman took advantage of the free shots, hitting 12 of 21. 
Harper was 11-for-17 from the floor. 
Scott Skiles and Nick Anderson each scored 22 for Orlando, which lost its 17th of its last 19 games. 
The Magic closed the first quarter with a 13-2 run to lead 33-26. Orlando's biggest lead with 6:24 remaining. 
Catledge had 15 at halftime as the Magic hit 58.5 percent (24 of 41) from the field. He scored only one point in the second half. 
Harper had 16 and Blackman had 14 for the Mavs at half­time. Dallas also was hot from the floor in the first two quar­ters, making 25 of 47 for 53.2 percent. 
Dallas pulled away in the fourth quarter behind 10 points from Blackman. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30pm. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds 1S 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
Classifieds 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY DILLON HALL...THE David, READING BOOKS! $32,000/year ---FINAL FRONTIER---Briefly. 'Null said .. 
NOTICES FOR SALE
income potential. Details. (1) 602-STUDENTS... Stuff 838-8885 Bk6262 A.C. 
WORDPROCESSING ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT 
JUST DO IT!!!!! 

You are cordially invited to272·1837 SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
Female graduate student wanted SHOTGUN-
follow the voyages of theFords, Mercedes, Corvettes, 
to housesit and be a companion to Take advantage of student Babs is bringing ine over Sat. night. 
Starship Enterprise this 
Typing Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. I'm coming to get you. 
a lucid, healthy 86 year old woman discounts on IBM PS/2's. 
weekend in Dillon Hall.
Pickup & Delivery 1-602-838-8885 Ext.A6262 
while family is away in mid-April. -Alyssa 277·7406 
Per diem. Will not interfere with Visit the NO Computer Store for classes. No housework. Own more details. "Alyssa and Kelly are the best.
DORM REFRIDGERATOR -FRIDAY­MAIL BOXES ETC. interested?? 9:00 STAR TREK: The Cage 
transportation n.eeded or use bus. I think everyone in Badin should Shipping, Packaging, Copies. 271-5651 The Original Pilot Episode! 
Please send name, telephone vote for them." Resumes from $15.00. Never Seen on Television!
number, and some information -Nancy Kesmodel 277-MAIL FOR SALE!!!! 11 :30 STAR TREK II:
about yourself to: 
IS THERE ANY QUESTION THAT 
Emerson STEREO: dual cassette, The Wrath of Khan
Indiana TrustCompanion "Yeah, vote for me." 
BILL IS THE MOST HAPPENING 
INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund turntable, AM/FM radio & -SATURDAY­
P.O. Box 5149 -Alyssa Fleck 
DUDE IN THE MED. PROGRAM?
in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! speakers. Will sell CHEAP!!! Best 9:00 STAR TREK Ill:
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 277·6245 offer. Call Shannon at 2469. The Search For Spock THE MORRISSEY FILM
Just ask SCRABBLE. The babes 
need ride to Columbus, Ohio on FESTIVAL11:30 STAR TREK IV:
dig him, the dudes want to be him
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! MICHIGAN WATERFRONT The Voyage Home 
3/23. call Bryce x1646 
and everybody's mother wants him
PANDORA'S BOOKS Saturday Night 
to be their son!!!!!!! 

Corner of NO ave and Howard 5 Acres-2500 sqft. home, 4 
SUMMER JOBS 7:30p.m.
233·2342 ponds,barn,On Dowagiac River 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Perhaps you've seen him with FREE! In the Dillon Party Room. Cushing Auditorium 
Front. Niles-M-51 N.

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
those girly-men in the weight room. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS LAURIE Z.
Of course he puts them to shame-­
St. Joseph River Front-2700 SqFt NEAR LAKE PLACID 
He's BILL! 

LOST/FOUND 
brick home,4-1/2 acres,225 ft. on THE MORRISSEY FILM
CALL 1-800-343-8373 HAPPY 20th TO BABY
GET YOUR MEAT HOOKS INTO 
River. N.Red Bud-Buchanan. FESTIVAL LOST : Gold ring with Ruby. HIM NOW GIRLS. ASK THEINTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE LAURIE -STINKY -BASS WENCH 
STUDENT CENTER -GOOSE! ......,
Great sentimental Value. GOOD DR. TO GIVE YOU A FREE
UNIQUE-4500 SqFt on 17 acres,2 TOMORROW NIGHT 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28,9 AM-
Please. return to Nick . x520B EXAM. YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!
barns­7:30P.M.
4PM. 
or 277-7236. Reward. 
pasture,fenced,pond,inground CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
-------------------------------------LOVE,
From one weasel to another:
pool, indoor hot tub room! A luxury Lost: Ladies Brown leather glove, It has been an awesome
home! Niles. 
THE BUTCHERlined. Between Morris Inn and month! I told you I would put 

cFOR RENT 
Walsh. Call James P11rcell collect something in the personals-­
Over 5000 sqft in this hi ag 
CHERYL1-923-4238 Student house that will teach you to call

contemporary luxury! On 5 Acres­
5 bdrms my bluff! Have a nice lunch!
security system,intercom,every ONLY NERDS WEAR YELLOW 
GOOD LUCK AT TRYOUTS!
LOST: LONG BLUE WINTER call Dan early 233-1 099 feature you could want. Servants BASEBALL CAPS--USUALLY YOU'RE GOING TO BECOAT WITH HOOD. CONTAINS $5.00 HAIRCUTS!!I!!!!!I!I!! 
quarters with private entrance. TO COVER UP THE HAIR THEY GREAT!!!
KEYS & SHADES IN POCKET. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Redfield Rd Near State Line. 
HAVEN'T WASHED IN WEEKS.
PLEASE CALL KURT 3308. 219-291-7153 Vito's Barbershop 
HANK THE BANK LIVES. Call Leona Proud 616-695-6933 
ONLY BIGGER NERDS HAVE GOLMUII!!
LOST: KEYS ON A 1988 SUMMER RENTAL.Home near 1523 Lincolnway West 
for info. ERA Day. NEVER SEEN "THE WIZARD OF 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP campus. Security system.272­
OZ!" GEEEEEZ! GET A LIFE I SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! 
KEYCHAIN. IF FOUND, PLEASE 6306 South Bend
FOR SALE...FOR SALE SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! 
CALL CATHY AT 4841 . THANKS. 
FINALLY THOSE NYLON SAVE THE BOO SOCKS! 
FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH 233-4767
SWEATPANTS YOU'VE BEEN GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID 
LOST: Gold "Monogram" Ring in SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE. SEARCHING FOR... NAVY W/ every Friday 12:15 Come and seethe basement bathroom in the CALL 234-6688 OR 234-5041 . Hello John! Have a great 17th 
GRN&YLW STRIPE. FULLY Administration Building steps The BOATHOUSE BLUES BANDlibrary on the Thursday of Break. If birthday.
LINED Wi SIDE ZIPPER. 
Be There! The BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND found, please call Dave at 232-LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME Love your big sis, Amy 
PULL-OVER JACKET TOO. 
The BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND9365 or just give it to library COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
CALL X2855 TO ORDER 
at

security. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms 
~-----------------------------------­
Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTTLE LENNY'S (on SR23}AUGUST. 234-9364. for Graduation weekend. Located this Saturday to Chicago! SAT. 24th @!O:OOpm
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. at Toll Road Exit #92, Elkhart (12 Tickets at Information Desk 
TICKETS
ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. HOUSE FOR RENT miles from South Bend). Minimum in LaFortune. THE MORRISSEY FILMREWARD. SEAN 2073 WALKING DISTANCE FROM stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per 
Hey Seniors, FESTIVAL
NO 232·3616 room. Send letter w~h deposit to 
Tell your parents to order all four Do you have what it takes to 
Lost: Brown wallet 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN GRADUATION TICKETS. be a manager? Well, apply TOMORROW NIGHT if found call x417 4 HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL 46514. 
Because I need 4 extra tickets and for building manager 7:30P.M.
Thanks. YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE will pay CASH for any seat positions for LaFortune and CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
HOME, 5 BDRM, WiD, CLOSE TO CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE 
anywhere. So after break call me Stepan. Job applications at 
MISSING NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264-DESPERATELY WISHES TO 
at 256-9374 and get your mula. Information Desk in LaFortune.
Missing from North Dining Hall: 6010. SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND 
Top 25 from the "Hillpeople do grey Jansport backpack MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE Padre Tour Deadline is March 23. 
Graduating Students from the Bay 
Please return. No questions KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH 25-I think I moved to a warmer
Area: Plane ticket, I Need 5 graduation tickets. Will
asked. JACQUIE CALHOUN Summer Rental OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS. sand dune. 
May15, one way, SFO to S. Pay ! Call INGRID #3461
x4959 4/5 bdrm. 2bth, furnished EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL 24-Lobster
Bend, best ofr. 277-5745, lv.
913 Leland KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT 23-I'm gonna drink til my eyesBEAUX ARTSmsg.
x4420 (201) 635-1307. 
hurt. 22-"Walk me home." " Why? I'm 
UNDERGROUND

WANTED 
I NEED GRAD TKTS 

SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP DINNER THEATRE finished"UNDERGROUND$$DAVE P. 3270
Walk to campus, pool EAT REAL FOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 21-If I wanted to dance with your CAMP STAFF: 21+, Coed, etc., 2bdrms, call 277-7496 SPAGHETTI WORKS daughter I would'veasked her.
sleepaway camp, Massachusetts. Help! My parents will kill me if I Mountain Bike for sale. 
MARCH26 20-This goes out to the exquisite 
Some key positions avail. Also: don't get two extra tickets for Top of the line Shwinn w/ 
GRAD STUDENTS! ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB creature in the red sweater.
WSI, lifeguard, arts & crafts, all graduation. I'm willing to pay accessories. $250 must sell.
CLEAN 1-BDRM. APT. NEAR TIX AT LAFORTUNE DESK 19-Hey Joe, dance with her I'll give 
Call 291-2918 after 5.

land and water sports, fitness. whatever I can for them. Call
CAMPUS. KIT. & UTIL. FURN. $6 you ten bucks.
gymnastics, piano/play for shows, Michael at x3260. .........................
$330 MO. 234-9871. 18-I'm not just a college girl I'm a
ATTN: DIGGER woman.
drama. judo. dance. tennis, 
archery, photography. computers. Need miracle tickets for Uniondale, 11 returning starters? A standout 
Two (2) houses available for rent. 17-ROX-ANNE
model rocketry, guitar, radio, N. Y. Dead shows on 3/29-30. Call freshman? 16-12?
Close to Notre Dame. Call 232-ST. PAUL AND THE MARTYRS: 16-Frank, now that we're safe, I
First-round defeat!5411 for more information. dozed off three times on my shift.
video. yearbook, newspaper, with info for money. x3684. 
'NUFF SAID

Far away across the field 15-Wear jeans or the sharks willwilderness, woodwork, RN typist. 
6/18-B/20. CAMP EMERSON, 5 BEAUX ARTS!!! 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? The tolling of the iron bell get you.
AG is great.

Brassie Rd. Eastchester. NY THE GROOVE!!! 
2 bedroom furnished apt. Calls the faithful to their knees 14-"I shouldn't be doing this 
10707. 800/955-CAMP. MARCH 31!!! 'null said.
for subleasing To hear the softly spoken magic 'cause I'm Catholic."" Don't worry,
ONLY 400 TIX!!! 

CALL NOW!! 284-4070 spells so am I!"
DAVE ARCHER!!! 13-Hey boy, where's the fahr?
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 
------------------------------------­

DAVE ARCHER!!!
mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII 
Sorry I couldn1 be there... 

12-Hot mayo and pepper biscuits. 
DAVE ARCHER!!!

Countries.AII fields. Free info. Write Doitup!! 11-I didn't know there were trees
Happy 21st Birthday! 
FOR RENT

IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del 
-Todd 
in Mexico.

Mar, CA 92625. 
2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM 
Looking for a fraternity, sorority of 10-After 15 tickets I don't even get APTS. AVALIABLE 
student organization that would It sure is a scary thing to know that a free one?
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE 
like to make $500-$1000 for a one the infamous "BODY" is finally 9-I've got peanut bladder! 
ENVIRONMENT Earn $2,500­
LESS THAN 1 MILE 
week on-campus marketing legal... B-Take 77, it'll be shorter. 
$3,500. National campaign 
FROM NOTRE DAME 
project. Must be organized and Best of luck in "reaching new 7-Hey Frank, can I bum one ofpositions to pass Clean Air Act. 
THE MORRISSEY FILM
hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at heights" tonight! those?
FEATURES INCLUDE:
stop toxic pollution, tighten 
FESTIVAL

(BOO) 592-2121. Love, 6-I'm sleeping in a· coffin.
pesticide controls'& promote 
Security systems, 
Your favorite PW brat 5-I am Joethar, of the Hillpeople.
comprehe~sive recycling. 
Saturday Night

Parrot Heads Forever !!I 4-Two little fingers stunk up the
basements, rear yards,
Available in 18 states & D.C. Call 
7:30p.m. 

SENIORS-DESPERATELY NEED wflole R.V.
washer & dryer, new
Kate at 1-800-75-EARTH 
Cushing Auditorium 

SENIORS GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL 3-Nothing about sex is ever construction, good 
GRADTIXS PAY CASH. Michelle 2677 I wrong. NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE 
I need extras! Will pay $BIG 2· Padre On, Hook'em Horns. any weekend-ext 1938 
neighborhood,dishwasher 
BUCKS $ Call Margo x41 89 Metro is in heat. 1-It's small 'cause I'm on roids. 
. 

~..~....ua-~~--------~----~----~--"=-~~·~--.--.~~---~--.---~==~~-.--.------~--~---------------~-----------.~----­
The Observer Friday, March 23, 1990 
LMU vs. UNLV matchup must wait 
Adversity builds character in Tarkanian's Running Rebels 

OAKLAND (APl -Loyola Marymount, the darling of the media because of its frenetic pace on offense and its dedica­tion of the postseason to fallen star !lank Gathers, is not play­ing No. 1 seed UNLY in the NCAA West Hegional finals. Not yet, anyway. 
Loyola would have to get past Alabama on Friday night, and UNLV would have to trip Ball State for that to happen. But that didn't stop the media from bombarding UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian with questions about Loyola on Thursday, and it didn't much deter Tarkanian from answering, either. 
'Til have to watch Loyola again to believe I'm seeing what I think I'm seeing," Tarkanian said. "What Loyola has done the past few games is beyond belief. I couldn't believe what they did against New Mexico State or Michigan." 
The Lions triumphed 111-92 over NMSU and 149-115 over defending ·NCAA champion Michigan in first-and second-

OAKLAND (AP) -Stalked by 
NCAA investigators all season, 
UNLV has turned what Coach 
Jerry Tarkanian modestly calls 
"adversity" into a unifying 
force. 
Before every UNLV free 
throw, the five HebeIs on the 
court huddle, their arms 
around each other's shoulders, 
and exchange encouraging 
words. 
It's not an empty gesture. It 
has become circle-the-wagons 
time for this besieged program, 
which nonetheless has shown a 
remarkable resiliency that finds 
Vegas in the final 16 of the 
NCAA tournament for the 
fourth time in the last five 
years. 
UNLV (31-5), the nation's No. 
2 team. will meet upstart Ball 
State (26-5) on Friday night in 
the NCAA West Hegionals at the 
Oakland Coliseum. Loyola 
Marymount (25-5) plays 
Alabama (26-S) in the other 
match up. 
Forward Stacey Augmon. a 
defensive stalwart, says this is 
the tightest, closest UNLV team 
he has been on. 
All-American forward Larry Johnson said he believes the Hebels banded together at the start of practice in mid­Oetober. "Everybody was being interviewed by the NCAA and everything was falling apart," Johnson said. "We had to come together." 
The troubles are seemingly 
endless: 
-The focus of the NCAA in­
vestigation apparently is the 
1<JS6 recruitment of Lloyd 
Daniels, which could result in 
UNLY being hit with its third 
probation under Tarkanian. 
-The NCAA also is looking into a newspaper report that former UNLV player Anthony­Jones had acquired a car under suspicious circumstances, and other players also were impli­cated. 
-Starting guard Anderson 
llunt was suspended for one 
game by the NCAA for failure 
to repay a student loan. 
-1\ight players, ineluding three starters, wen~ declared ineligible by the NCAA for one game each for failing to pay hotel room incidentals from last season. 
-Just before the oponing of fall practice, on Oct. 14, three non-starters were charged with rnsisting arrest. 
-Two reserves were sus­pended after an ugly brawl in a game against Utah State. 
-The Rebels played their first six games without starting 
center David Butler and backup 
forward Moses Scurry, who 
were academically ineligible. 
In addition, a number of players have missed significant playing time with injuries. George Ackles, a starter last season, broke his wrist last summer and hasn't played. Starting guard Greg Anthony broke his jaw on Feb. 12. Although he didn't miss any playing time, his jaw still is wired shut for every game. Backup guard Stacey Cvijanovich is still bothered by a separated shoulder. Only Johnson has played in all 36 games. 
No wonder Tarkanian says it has been "a real rough year for 
us." 
Yet, somehow, the Hebels continue to win. 
"This team has played well, through more adversity than any team I can remember," he said. "And then we had the in­juries on top of it. They haven't let those things affect the morale of the tnam or let it dis-

CHEER CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME 
Cheerleading Tryouts 
March 23rd and 24th 7:oopm in the Basketball Arena SHOW YOUR SPIRIT! 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Receivable Manager Purchasing Manager 
for more information contact Kathleen O'Connor at 239-7471 or 283-2570 
tract from what their focus is. 
"They've come together through adversity. They're very unselfish and very close." 

Tarkanian has been battling the NCAA in court for 19 years, and NCAA officials clearly look on him as running a tainted program -whether proved or not. 
Asked if he thought the NCAA was out to get him, Tarkanian smiled and replied sarcastically, ''I'm sure the NCAA probably is pulling for us. 
"Actually, some people in the NCAA have been nice to us. I'm sure one guy up there would 
like to see me lose. Overall, I think they've treated us fairly. We've received very high seed­ings in the tournament, for in­stance." 
As the No. 1 seed in the West, UNLV is considered by many to be the favorite to win its first NCAA title. Tenacious defense, which produces nearly 10 steals per game and sets up the fast­break offense, is the primary reason for the Rebels' success. 
round tournament games. 
"They're playing with emo­tion," Tarkanian added. "Everybody is at this tim!~ of year, but they're certainly fo­cused and committed." 
Then, apparently catching himself. Tarkanian said, "We have to worry about Ball Statn first, and Loyola has to worry about Alabama." 
Loyola Marymount's fast­break. shoot-it-up style has produced an NCAA-record scoring average of 125.2 points ppr ganw and speculation that the Lions don't really run plays. 
Asked on Thursday if he had a playbook, l.MU coach Paul Westhead said: "A what'? Something you play around with'? I have a couple of novels. 
"We have some designs of our fast break. It's about three pages -double-spaced with big pictures." 
Alabama coach Wimp Sanderson calls himself a friend of Westhead and says he 
"I think we're good enough to go all the way," Tarkanian said, "but you've got to be lucky from this point on." 
Tarkanian has been con­cerned about what he perceived as his team's lack of intensity over the past month, but has detected a turnaround in prac­tice this week. 
"I think we lost our intensity in February when we played about every other day," he said Thursday. "But on Tuesday and Wednesday and again today, I can see we've got it back. I hope it continues." 
Chinese-lmeric1n Restaurant & 
Cocktail loun&e

CR£-r\T 
Authentic Szechuan. Mandann & Hunan Cuisme 
'YALL 
p..;.;;.:;::.,;;;...._., Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.. Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. · Sat. t 1 :30 a.m. to 11 p.m Sun. & Holidays 11 :30 a.m. to 10 p.m ixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall"s Jnnl 272­
''A MAGICAL AND MOVING RIDE. 
With its delicate mix of counter culture wit and traditional values, it's a movie that could have been made only in the U.SA For viewers who leave their hearts open, the 
rewards are plentiful:' 
-David Ansen. NEWSWEEK MAGAZINE 
"It soars beyond dreams. It is a fantasy about belief, about hope, about fathers and sons, about a passion for life. 'field of Dreams' is a masterwork of 
wondennent:' 
-Gele Shalit.lllE TODAY SHOW/NBC·lV 
KEVIN·COSTNER 
FIELDOFDREAMS 
rnr;l • AUNIVERSAL RELEASE 
~~&~ COL~-::::1 e~tnuNJvwnansnxnK. 

TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
admires Westlw<~:d as a "good basketball coach and good technician.·· 
But Sanderson adds: "lie's too smart. 111~ knows English, Shakespearn, drama -all that 
crap. That's what I don't like about him. I~~~ can quote poetry -l.ongfeller, Shortfellm-, who­ever. I don't know any of that stuff. I just barely can n~ad." 
Westlwad said the death of Gatlwrs from lwart failure during a garlH\ on March 4 has made his players "rnalize that basketball is n~ally quite a triv­ial function compan~d to sonw of the other things going on around tlwm." 
I'Prsonally, Westlwad said, hn has "had a hard time managing my feelings about !lank. Tlw excitement of the games and the need to tend to the details of business has helped me. It would be more diflieult if the season were over. The game has occupied my interest. But the excitement of winning has in no way released our grief." 
Tarkanian witnessed Ball State's first-round tournament victory over Oregon State 54-53 and second-round upset of Louisville 62-60, but doesn't see 
the  Cardinals  as  an  upstart  
team.  
"Ball  State's  win  ovnr  

Louisville was not an upset," he said. ''I'm very impressed with the way they played Louisville. They led the whole game. They dominated. 
"They play real good defense. They jam the post very well. They're a very patient team on offense. They have good shoot­ers and a lot of depth. They're more of a halfcourt team." 
Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer 
Razorbacks defeat North Carolina 
DALLAS (AP) Lee Arkansas pull away by scoring made it to the final eight of the Mayberry's 3-point shooting 13 points in the final 6 1/2 min­tournament. and the inside play of Oliver utes. He finished with 19, 15 in The Longhorns are going be­Miller helped seventh-ranked the second half. cause their "BMW" guard trio Arkansas pull away from North Fox, the Tar Heels' leading -Blanks, Travis Mays and Carolina in the second half and scorer at 16 points per game, Joey Wright -operated on all rout the Tar Heels 96-73 in a went scoreless in the first half cylinders. Mays scbred 32 Midwest Hegional semifinal and finished with nine. Scott points and Wright had 26. game Thursday night. Williams had 20 for North "I drive a Pinto myself, but I 
Arkansas (29-4), seeded Carolina. think I see why they drive a fourth. will play Saturday in the Lenzie Howell led the BMW at Texas," Xavier coach regional final against the win­Razorbacks with 25 points. Pete Gillen said. "We couldn't ner of Thursday's late game Day, who watched most of the stop those guys. We tried a between sixth-seeded Xavier first half with three fouls, had zone, a triangle and two and and No. 10 seed Texas. It will 18 points. every defense we could think of. be the Hazorbacks' first ap­Blanks was really unstop­pearance in a regional final Texas 102, Xavier 89 pable." since 1979. Xavier, which upset 
Eighth-seeded North DALLAS (AP) -After firing Georgetown in the second Carolina, which was playing in blanks in the first half, Lance round, finished 28-5, the most the round of 16 for the 10 Blanks found the mark and wins in school history. Early in straight year and got there by helped Texas shoot down the second half, it seemed like upsetting top-ranked Xavier in the NCAA tournament the victorv total would be even Oklahoma. ended its season 21-Thursday night. higher. · 
13. Blanks, 0-for-8 in the first Led by their 6-foot-1 0 duo of 
The Tar lleels used an 11-1 half. scored 26 of his 28 points Derek Strong and Tyrone Hill, run early in the second half to in the second half as the the Musketeers increased their turn a 41-34 deficit into a 45-Longhorns rallied from a 16-53-41 halftime lead to 16 42 lead. Fox's dunk off a point deficit to beat Xavier 102-points by scoring the first two turnover made it 47-44, and 89 and set up an all-Southwest baskets of the second half. thPy matdwd it moments later Conference final in the Midwest But Texas rallied and went when Fox madP a shot inside. Regional. ahead 75-74 on Blanks' steal 
But with the score tied at 54, "I challenged myself mentally and dunk with 9:10 remaining. Mayberry madP a 3-pointer. at halftime," Blanks said. "I Blanks, who was 9-of-13 from Aftpr a fnw throw by George didn't want it to be the last half the field in the second half, then or something. We had no an­said. Lynch, Arkansas got two more of my career. I started driving led Texas on a 15-2 run that swers. Now Texas moves on to play 3-pointers from Mayberry and and the shots began to fall." made it 90-79 with 2:29 left. He 'We played a great first half, Arkansas, which beat the one from Todd Day in just over Texas (24-8) will play sev­had two steals and three bas­but all of a sudden they got ag­Longhorns 109-100 and 103-96 a minute to take a 66-55 lead enth-ranked Arkansas (29-4) kets during the Texas spurt. gressive and we couldn't an­in overtime this year. with 8:17 left. Mayberry fin­on Saturday at Reunion Arena. "Texas got on a roll and it swer. We spectated instead of "We had two great games ished with 19. Arkansas, which beat the was like trying to stop an participating." against Arkansas and it will be 
North Carolina pulled within Longhorns twice this season, avalanche coming down the Strong scored 27 points, a great matchup," Texas coach 68-61 on a 3-pointer by Fox advanced with a 96-73 tictory side of a mountain," Gillen while Hill added 22. Tom Penders said. ''I'm glad with 7:29 to play, but a 10-2 over North Carolina. It's the said. "Poof, our lead was gone. "We played great in the first we're playing them. It's good run clinched it. Miller helped first time two SWC teams have It was like we hit a brick wall half, then just lost it," Strong for the conference." 
George's buzzer shot thwarts Tiger rally, propels UConn to Final Eight 
EAST  HUTIIEHFOJW,  N.J.  second left.  67-53 with six minutes remain­ points, easily caught the  in­ continued  its  Meadowlands  
lAP)  - Tate  George  took  a  Scott Burrell,  a  pitcher who  ing. But the Tigers then scored  bound pass and made the win­ mastery by beating UCLA 90-81  
length-of-the-court  pass  with  was  the  No.  1  pick  by  the  12 straight points to get back  ner over the outstretched arms  Thursday night  and  moving  
one  second left and hit a  12­ Seattle Mariners last year, then  in the game.  of a Clemson defender.  into East Regional final for the  
foot  jumper  as  Connecticut,  threw a football pass from his  Dale  Davis'  tip-in  pulled  Replays showed that George  fourth time in five years.  
after blowing a  19-point lead,  own  baseline  to  George,  who  Clemson to 69-67 with 2:45 left  released the ball just before the  The 15th-ranked Blue Devils  
stunned  Clemson  71-70  caught the ball on the right side  and  after  each  team  missed  red light that signals the end of  (27 -8). who won regionals here  
Thursday night and advanced  of the  basket, turned around  shots,  the  Tigers  forced  a  the game went off and before  in 1986, '88 and '89, will play  
to the East Hegional final of the  and swished the winning shot.  turnover with 17 seconds to go  the  horn  sounded.  Clemson's  Connecticut on  Saturday. The  
NCAA tournament.  Third-ranked  Connecticut  and called time.  players, some of whom fell to  Huskies  (31-5)  beat Clemson  
Clemson, which  overcame  a  (31-5), whose only previous re­ the floor in shock, did not ar­ 71-70 on a last-second shot by  
19-point deficit against La Salle  gional final was 1964, will play  Young,  scoreless  to  that  gue over George's shot.  Tate George.  
in  the second  round.  seemed  the winner of the Duke-UCLA  point, got the ball in the left  Chris Smith led the Huskies  
ready to pull off another amaz­ game  on  Saturday in Dallas.  corner and made his 3-pointer  with 23 points. Elden Campbell  UCLA,  which  trailed  by  as  
ing come-from-behind  victory  The 17th-ranked Tigers, whose  to give Clemson its first lead  and Davis, Clemson's 6-foot-11  many as 11 points in the first  
after David Young's 3-pointer  only appearance in the regional  since early in the game. Young,  "Duo of Doom," each scored  half, rallied to take the lead 66­ 
gave the Tigers  a  70-69 lead  finals was in 1980, finished 26­ a  reserve  sophomore guard,  15, and Davis also had 17 re­ 65  on  a  3-pointer by Tracy  
with 11 seconds left.  9.  was averaging 6 points a game  bounds.  Murray with 7:53 left.  
George then missed a jumper and Clemson's Sean Tyson  Until the final shot, it ap­peared the Huskies would lose  and shooting only 29 percent from 3-point range.  Duke 90. UCLA 81  But with foul-plagued Duke trailing 68-67, Henderson hit  
grabbed the rebound and was  for the· first  time this  season  After Tyson missed his free  his final  3-pointer  to  start  a  
fouled with 1.6 seconds remain­ after holding  a  halftime lead.  throw-Clemson's ninth miss  EAST  HUTHERFORD,  N.J.  15-5  run  that  put  the  Blue  
ing. But Tyson missed the front  UConn is now 30-0 after lead­ in 25 tries - UConn got th~ re­ (AP) - Phil Henderson scored  Devils ahead to stay 82-73.  
end  of  a  one-and-one  and  ing at the half.  bound and a chance for the fi­ 28  points,  including  six  3­ UCLA, playing in its first re­ 
Connecticut  rebounded  and  Clemson  trailed  59-40  with  nal  shot.  George,  a  senior  pointers, and sparked  a  deci­ gional  semifinal  since  1980,  
called  time  with  exactly  one  12:36 left and  was  still down  guard  who  finished  with  12  sive second-half run  as  Duke  finished 22-11.  
Boeheim worries about size matchup  
NEW OHI.EANS (AP)  - It's  Sunday with a trip to the Final  
rare to hear Jim Boeheim wor­ Four at stake.  
rying over a size matchup.  First, Boeheim has to handle  
Usually Syracuse has a dis­ the Gophers of the Big Ten, a  
tinct advantage up front with  conference the Orangemen are  
as  big and  physical  a  trio  as  0-4 against in NCAA play.  
you can find in college basket­ "They are  big in the back­ 
ball.  court and  two big guards  are  
The  problem  facing  the  always  a  problem  for  us  
Orangemen against Minnesota  matchup-wise," Boeheim said  
on  Friday night is  a size mis­ Thursday.  "Minnesota  is  as  
match  in  the  backcourt.  good  as  any of the top seeds  
Advantage Minnesota.  and they know the way to play  
Syracuse (26-6). the region's  now."  
second  seed,  starts  6-foot-4  Both  teams  are  making  a  
swingman Stephen Thompson  second straight appearance in  
and 5-11 freshman point guard  the round of 16.  
Michael Edwards in the back­ "You always heard we were  
court.  The  sixth-seeded  no good, we had not shooting,"  
Gophers  counter  with  6-4  Minnesota coach Clem Haskins  
Melvin Newbern and 6-6 Kevin  said. "Well, we're in the sweet  
Lynch.  sixteen again so someone's do­ 
There  is  no  mismatch  up  ing something right."  
front  as  Minnesota  (22-8)  Derrick  Coleman  has  been  
grabbed  37.6  rebounds  per  doing  everything  right  for  
game,  not  far  behind  Syracuse. College basketball's  
Syracuse's 41.4.  all-time leading rebounder in  
The winner of the Syracuse­ what is considered the modern  
Minnesota game meets the win­ era,  Coleman  got  the  
ner of Friday night's other re­ Orangemen here with  a  last­ 
gional semifinal between top­ seconds  block  of  Virginia's  APPhoto  


seeded Michigan State and Bryant Stith to seal the 63-61 The Minnesota Gophers and the Michigan State Spartans are the only remaining representatives of the fourth-seeded Georgia Tech on second-round victory. Big Ten in the NCAA Tournament. They will meet Syracuse and Georgia Tech respectively tonight. 
0: u ..
= . ---­r 
page 18 Scoreboard Friday, March 23, 1990 NHL STAN DINGS NCAA BOX SCORES NCAA TOURNAMENT 
WALES CONFERENCE CLEMSON (70) EAST REGIONAL MIDWEST REGIONAL Patrick Division Davis 6-10 3-5 15, Tyson 5-8 1-3 11, Campbell 5-Arsl Round Ars1Round w L T Pis GF GA 11 5-7 15, Cash 2-9 3-5 B. Forrest 2-4 2-2 6, Young Hartford, Conn. Austin, Texas 13 81 258 249
x-NY Rangers 34 28 1-2 0-0 3, Jones 0-0 0-0 0. Howling 2-8 2-3 7, Thursday, March 15 Thursday, March 15 New Jersey 32 33 8 72 265 268 Buckingham 1-2 0-0 2, Lastinger 1-2 0-0 3, Brown Clemson 49. Brigham Young 47 Oklahoma 77, Towson State 68 
Washtnglon 33 36 5 71 270 261 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 25-56 16-25 70. La Salle 79, Southern Mississippi 63 North Carolina 83, Southwest Mtssoun State 70 Pit1sburgh 32 37 6 70 304 341 CONNECTICUT (71) Connecticut 76, Boston University 52 Arkansas 68, Princeton 64 278 274
Philadelphta 30 36 9 69 Heneleld 1-3 0-0 2, Burrell2-9 5-6 9, Walker 1-2 California 65, Indiana 63 Dayton 88, Illinois 86 36 68 261 271
NY Islanders 29 10 0-0 2, Smith 8-14 3-3 23, George 5-12 2-2 12, Atlanta Indianapolis Adams Division Gwynn 4-13 1-2 9, Sellers 2-3 0-1 4, DePriest 4-6 Friday, March 16 Friday, March 16 x·Boston 44 24 7 95 272 218 0-0 8, Williams 0-1 0-0 0, Cyrulik 1-1 0-1 2, Macklin Duke 81, Richmond 46 Georgetown 70. Texas Southern 52 
265 233

x-Buffalo 41 26 8 90 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 28-6411-15 71. St. John's 81, Temple 65 Xavter, Ohio 87, Kansas Stale 79 x-Montreal 39 27 9 87 272 220 Halftime-Connecticut 38, Clemson 29. 3-point UCLA 68, Alabama-Birmtngham 56 Texas 100. Georgia 88 x-Hartlord 35 77 255 goals-Clemson 4-12 (Cash 1-1, Lasttnger 1-1, Kansas 79, Robert Morris 71 Purdue 75, Northeast Louisiana 63 
32 7 253 
7 31 227 383

Quebec 12 56 Young 1-2, Howling 1-6, Forrest 0-2), Connecticut Second Round Second Round 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 4-10 (Smith 4-6, Heneleld 0-1, George 0-1, Gwynn Hartford, Conn. Austin, Texas Norris Division 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Clemson 40 Saturday, March 17 Saturday, March 17 w L T Pis GF GA (Davis 17), Connecticut 36 (Burrell 15). Assists­Connecticut 74, Calilornta 54 North Carolina 79, Oklahoma 77 284 257
x-St. Louis 36 31 9 81 Clemson 11 (Cash 4), Connecticut 16 (Smith 5). Clemson 79, La Salle 75 Arkansas 86, Dayton 84 x-Chicago 37 31 6 80 292 275 Total louis-Clemson 16, Connecticut 23. Atlanta Indianapolis Toronto 36 35 76 318 336 T echnicai-Davis. Sunday, March 18 Sunday, March 18 Mtnnesota 33 Duke 76. St. John's 72 Texas 73. Purdue 72 
38 4 70 263 270 272 303 UCLA (81) 
Detrott 27 35 13 67 UCLA 71, Kansas 70 Xavter. Ohto 74. Georgetown 71 Wilson 5-18 6-10 16. Maclean 9-17 3-5 21,
Smythe Division Semifinals Semifinals 326 Murray 6-12 0-2 15, Madkins 5-6 5-8 17, Martin 1-9 
x-Calgary 39 22 14 92 250 East Rutherford, N.J. Dallas 13 85 300 269 2-2 4, Butler 1-4 4-4 6, Owens 0-0 0-0 0, Mason 0­
x-Edmonton 36 27 Thursday, March 22 Thursday, March 22 275 1 0-0 0. Walker t-2 0-1 2. Totals 28-69 20-32 81. 
x-Wtnntpeg 36 30 9 81 286 Connecticut 71, Clemson 70 Arkansas 96, North Carolina 73 x-Los Angeles 32 36 6 70 315 314 DUKE (90) Duke 90, UCLA 81 Texas 102, Xavter, Ohio 89 40 13 59 231 294 Brickey 3-8 1-3 7, Laettner 8-12 8-8 24,
Vancouver 23 Championship Championship Abdelnaby 5-7 4-5 14, Henderson 10-22 2-2 28,
x -clinched playoff berth East Rutherford, N.J. Dallas Hurley 3-6 5-6 12, McCallrey 0-4 3-4 3, Koubek 0-1
Wednesday's Games Saturday's Games Saturday, March 24 saturday, March 24 Hartford 4. Quebec 1 Chtcago at Detroit, 1:05 p.m. Connecticut (31-5) vs. Duke (27-8). 1:40 p.m. Arkansas (29·4) vs Texas, 4:03p.m. 
0-0 0. Davis 1-1 0-0 2, Hill 0-3 0-0 0, Palmer 0-0 D­O0. Totals 30-64 23-28 90. 
Bullalo 5. Calgary 4 New Jersey at Phtladelphia, 1:05 p.m. Halftime-Duke 47, UCLA 38. 3-potnt goals­
Toronto 5. New York Rangers 5, lie Minnesota at Boston. 1:35 p.m. WEST REGIONAL UCLA 5-14 (Murray 3-5, Madktns 2-3, Wilson 0-1,
Winntpeg 3. Montreal 2 Calgary at Pittsburgh, 2:30p.m. ArsiRound
SOUTHEAST REGIONAL 
Martin 0-4), Duke 7-16 (Henderson 6-11. Hurley 1­
Edmonton 8, Sl. Louts 6 Montreal at Hartford. 7:35 p.m. Salt Lake City 
Ars1Round
4, Hill 0-1). Fouled out-Wilson. Rebounds-UCLA
Thursday's Games Toronto at Quebec. 7:35p.m. Thursday, March 15
Knoxville, Tenn. 
53 (Maclean 15), Duke 48 (laettner 14). Assists­
Late Games Not Included New York Islanders at Edmonton, 8:05p.m. Ball State 54, Oregon Stale 53 
Thursday, March 15 
UCLA 18 (Martin 8), Duke 19 (Hurley 9). Total
Basion 7. Quebec 3 Sl. Louts at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. lOUISVIlle 78, Idaho 59 
UC Santa Barbara 70, Houston 66
louis-UCLA 24, Duke 25. A-19,502.

Philadelphta 5. Ptttsburgh 3 Sunday's Games Nevada-Las Vegas I02. Arkansas-Little Rock 72
Mtchtgan State 75, Murray State 71, OT Minnesota 5. Detrott 1 PhTiadelphia at New York Rangers, 1:30 p.m. Ohto State 84. Provtdence 83, OT 
Louisiana State 70. Villanova 63 New Jersey at Chtcago. (n) Calgary at Washington, 1:35 p.m. NORTH CAROLINA (73) Long Beach, Calif. 
Georgia Tech 99, East Tennessee State 83 
New York Islanders at Los Angeles. (n) New Jersey at Bullalo, 2:05p.m. Chilcutt 5-10 0-0 11, Fox 4-10 0-0 9, Williams 6-Friday, March 16Richmond, Va. 
Friday's Games Detroit at Chtcago. 2:35p.m. 15 8-8 20. Rodl 0-2 0-2 0, Rice 3-5 3-6 10, lynch 3-Arizona 79, South Flonda 67Friday, March 16 
Montreal at Washtngton. 8:05p.m. Ptttsburgh at Hartford. 7:05p.m. 4 4-7 1O, Davis 4-12 1-2 11. Denny 0-3 0-0 0. 
Alabama 71. Colorado State 54Northern Iowa 74. Missoun 71 

Vancouver at Wtnntpeg, 8:30p.m. Winntpeg at Vancouver, 10:05 p.m. Harris 1-1 0-0 2. Wenstrom 0-0 0-0 0. Greene 0-0 Mtchtgan 76, Illinois State 70 Mtnnesota 64. Texas-EI Paso 61. OT 0-0 o. Totals 26-62 16-25 73. Loyola Marymount 111. New Mextco State 92 
Syracuse 70. Copptn State 48 

NBA STANDINGS ARKANSAS(96) Second Round 
Virginia 75, Notre Dame 67 

Day 6-13 3-4 18, Howell12-18 0-0 25, Credit 0-0 
Salt Lake City EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Second Round 
2-2 2. Mayberry 7-14 1-2 19. Bowers 1-5 2-2 4. 
saturday, March 17 Atlantic Division Knoxville, Tenn. 
Huery 2-8 0-0 4, Miller 7-7 5-5 19, Murry 0-2 0-0 0. 
Nevada-las Vegas 76, Ohio Stale 65 W L Ptt Streak 
Saturday, March 17 
Hawktns 1-2 0-0 2, Whitby 0-2 1-2 I, linn 1-1 0-0 
Ball State 62. louisville 60 Phtladelphta 42 26 .618 Won 2 
Michtgan State 62, UC Sanla Barbara 58 
2, Marks 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 37-72 14-17 96. 

AI Long Beach Boston 39 26 600 1 112 Won 2 
Georgia Tech 94, Loutsiana State 91 

Halftime-Arkansas 39, North Carolina 34. 3­
Sunday, March 18 New York 39 26 600 I 112 Lost 4 
Richmond, Va. 
point goals-North Carolina 5-17 (Davis 2-4, Rice 
Loyola Marymount 149, Mtchtgan 115 Washtngton 25 42 .373 16 112 Won I 
Sunday, March 18 
1-2, Chilcutt 1-3, Fox t-5, Williams 0-t. Denny 0-2), 
Alabama 77, Arizona 55 New Jersey 15 51 .227 26 Lost 
Syracuse 63. Virginia 61 

Arkansas 8-18 (Mayberry 4-7. Day 3-6, Howell I-I. 
SemifinalsMinnesota B1, Northern Iowa 78 

Mtamt 15 53 .221 27 Lost 5 
Murry 0-1, Whitby 0-1, Bowers 0-2). Fouled out­Friday, March 23 Central Dtvtsion 
Semifinals 
None. Rebounds-North Carolina 40 (Chilcutt II), Loyola Marymount (25·5) vs. Alabama (26-8). New Orleans 
x-Detrott 51 16 .761 Lost Nevada-las Vegas (31·5) vs. Ball State (26·6) 
Arkansas 36 (Howell 8). Asststs-North Carolina Chicago 43 22 .662 7 Won 3 
Friday, March 23 Sunday, March 25 
12 (Rice 5), Arkansas 20 (Mayberry 7). Total Mtlwaukee 35 .530 Lost Minnesota (22·8) vs. Syracuse (26-6). 8:04 p.m. UNLV-Ball State wtnner vs. Loyola Marymount· 
31 15 112 2 
fouls-North Carolina 17, Arkansas 21 lndtana 33 34 493 18 Won Michtgan State (28-5) vs. Georgta Tech (26-6) Alabama wtnner. 4:03p.m.
2 

Techntcals-North Carolina coach Smith. Atlanta 31 35 470 19 112 Lost 2 Cleveland 30 35 462 20 Lost 
Orlando 17 50 .254 34 loSI 
NBA BOX SCORES PRO TENNIS 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division DENVER (118) DALLAS (116) KEY BISCAYNE. Fla.-Results Thursday from 
w L Ptt Streak English 10-20 0-0 20, Schayes 3-8 8·8 14, Tarpley 9-17 4-6 22, Perkins 5-11 3·5 13, the $2 5 million International Players x-Utah 48 19 716 Won 2 Carroll 9·18 4-4 22, Adams 5·1 0 0·0 12, Lever 11-Donaldson 2-2 2-2 6. Harper 11-17 4·6 27. Champtonshtps at the lnternattonal Tennts Cent6r San Antonto 45 21 682 2 112 Won 18 1·3 23, Hanzlik 0-2 0·0 0, Lichti 3-5 5-6 II, Blackman 12-21 8-9 32, Williams 1-8 0-0 2. Davts (seedtngs tn parentheses)· Dallas 36 29 .554 11 Won 2 Davis 7-15 0-0 14, Rasmussen 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 4-6 1-1 10. Wenntngton 2-3 0-0 4 Totals 46-85 22-Men Denver 36 30 .545 11 112 Won 2 49-97 18-21 118. 29116. Singles Houston 32 35 478 16 Won SEATTLE (125) ORLANDO (106) Quarterfinals Minnesota 17 49 258 30 112 Lost McDaniel 11-18 2-2 24, McKey 5·14 0-0 10, O.Smith 4-10 4-4 12, Catledge 5-6 6·8 16, Green Stefan Edberg (3), Sweden. del Jakob Hlasek. Charlotte 12 53 .185 35 Won Cage 8·11 1·2 17, Eilts I 0-20 0·0 21. McMillan 2-5 8-13 2·218. Skiles 9·16 1-1 22, Anderson 10-17 2-Switzerland, 6-7 (7·9), 7-6 (7·5), 7-6 (8·6). PacWic Division 0-0 4. Barros 2-7 4-4 B. Threatt 6-10 7-8 19, 4 22, Reynolds 2·4 1-3 5, Acres 0·0 0·0 o. Vtncent Emtlto Sanchez (15), Spain, del. Martin Jaite x-l.A. Lakers 49 16 754 Won 2 Polynice 4-5 0-0 8, Kemp 6-9 1·2 14.Tolals 54-99 0·31-1 I, Ansley 3·6 2·2 8, Theus 1-2 0·0 2.Totals (10), Argenttna. 6·3, 6-3. 
x-Portland 48 19 .716 2 Lost 15-18 125. 32-125 42· 77 19-25 I 06. Jay Berger (7), Weston, Fla .. del. Pele Sampras 
Phoentx 44 21 677 5 Lost 3-Point goals-Denver 2·6 (Adams 2-~. Davis 0-3-Poinl goals-Dallas 2~5 (Harper 1-2, Davis 1-2, (16), Palos Verdes. Calif . default Seattle 33 32 .508 16 Lost 1. Lever 0-2), Seattle 2· 7 (Kemp 1-1. Ellis 1-5, Blackman 0-1), Orlando 3·7 (Skiles 3-6, Theus 0-Andre Agasst (5), Las Vegas, del. Jim Couner Golden State 30 35 462 19 Won Barros 0·1 ). Fouled out-None Rebounds­1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Dallas 44 (14). Dade Ctty. Fla., 4-6, 6·3, 6-1. LA Clippers 26 41 .388 24 Lost Denver 45 (Schayes, Carroll 9), Seattle 54 (Cage (Tarpley 15), Orlando 43 (Green. Anderson 10). Doubles Sacramento 21 45 .318 28 112 Won 15). Assists-Denver 21 (Adams 5), Seattle 32 Assists-Dallas 23 (Harper 8). Orlando 27 (Skiles Third Round 
x·clinched playoff berth (McMillan 16). Total fouls-Denver 17, Seattle 23. 10). Tolaf fouls-Dallas 17, Orlando 25. Nelson Aerts and Fernando Roese, Brazil, del Wednesday's Games A-9,830. Technicals-Dallas illegal defense 2, Blackman, Tomas Carbonell. Spain, and Michie! Schapers, Phtladelphta 118, Mtamt 97 GoldeA State at Utah. 9:30 p m PORTLAND (106) Acres. Skiles. Catledge. A-15,077. Netherlands. 7·6 (7-5), 6·7 (4-7). 6·3. 
Fourth Round Chtcago 99, Atlanta 89 Duckworth Drexler 11·19 3-4 Edwards 4-4 Rodman 3-6 Darren Cahill and Mark Kratzmann. Australia. 
Washtnglon 136, New Jersey I 06 Mtnnesota at Phoentx. 9:30 p.m. Kersey 6·15 7·8 19, Williams 4-5 6-8 14, DETROIT (11 0) 
Los Angeles Cltppers at Los Angeles Lakers, 10:30 p.m 8-20 4-4 20, 26, 7-14 18. 2-5 7, lndtana 112, Mtlwaukee 96 Saturday's Games Porter 6·13 1-1 14, Bryant 1-2 0·0 2, Young 0-0 0-0 Laimbeer 7·11 0·0 18, Dumars 4-11 2-2 10, del Brodenck Dyke. Australia, and Nduka Odtzor, Boston 123. Cleveland 114 Boston at New York. 7:30p.m. 0, C.Robinson 2-8 3-6 7, Cooper 1-1 0-0 2, Thomas 8-18 2-4 18, V.Johnson 4·8 0·0 8, Salley Nigena, 6-4, 6-4. Utah 118. Los Angeles Clippers I 02 Petrovic 1-5 0-0 2. Totals 40-88 24-31 106. 5-6 0·2 10, Aguirre 8-13 4-4 21. Totals 45-86 15-22 Sergio Casal and Emilio Sanchez. Spain. del
Phtladelphta at Washtngton. 7:30 p.m. 
Charlotte 115, Phoentx 114, OT Mtlwaukee at Orlando, 7:30p.m 110. Rick leach, Laguna Beach. Cali/.. and Jim Pugh,
SAN ANTONIO (107) Sacramento 90. Mtnnesota 84 Charlotle at Atlanta. 7:30p.m. HOUSTON (115) Palos Verdes, Calif., 7-6 (7·4), 6·3. 
Elliott 3·5 3-3 9, Cummings 12·20 1·4 26, Thursday's Games New Jersey at Cleveland. 7:30 p.m. 
D.Robinson 11-17 7-8 29, Strickland 5-14 2·2 12, B.Johnson 7-17 6-8 20, Thorpe 7-9 2-2 16, Late Game Not Included Sacramento at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
Anderson 4-16 6-8 14, Brickowski 3-3 3-3 9, Olajuwon 9·20 8·10 26, Floyd 2·5 6·6 12, Wiggins Dallas 116, Orlando 106 Golden State at Houston, 8:30p.m. TRANSACTIONS 
Wingate 1-2 1-2 3, Jones 0·3 0-0 0, Moore 2-4 0-0 8-14 0-0 16, Smith 1-1 0-0 2, Maxwell4-10 1·6 10, Houston 115, Detrott IIo Detroit at San Antonio. 8:30p.m. 
5. Totals 41·84 23·30 107. Woodson 5·6 2·2 13, McCormick 0-0 0-0 0. 
FOOTBALL Portland at Denver. 9:30p.m.
San Antonio 107, Portland 106 3-Point go,als-Portland 2-7 (Drexler 1·2, Porter Caldwell 0-0 0·0 0. Totals 43~82 25·34 115. 
National Football League 

Denver at Seattle, (n) Seatlle at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m 3-Point goals-Detroit 5·13
1-4, Kersey 0·1), San Antonio 2-2 (Cummings 1·1, (laimbeer 4·6, WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Signed Walter 
Friday's Games Utah at los Angeles Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
Moore 1·1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Aguirre 1-2, Dumars 0-1, V.Jolmson 0-1, Rodman Stanley, wide receiver-kick returner. 
Sunday's Games 
Atlanta at Boston, 7:30pm. Portland 48 (Williams 9), San Anlonio 57 0-1, Thomas 0-2), Houston 4-6 (Floyd 2-2, COLLEGE 
Milwaukee at Miami, 7:30 p.m.
Sacramento at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. (D.Robinson 19). Assists-Portland 27 (Porter 7), Woodson 1-1, Maxwell 1-3). Fouled cui­
IONA-Announced the resignation of Rob 
Detrott at Dallas. 8 p.m. 
New York at Charlotte. 7:30p.m. San Antonio 25 (Strickland 10). Total fouls-B.Johnson, Olajuwon Rebounds-Detroit 50 
Spence, offensive coordinator, so he can take a
--Dallas at Mtami, 7:30p.m. Minnesota at Portland. 10 p.m. 
Portland 25, San Antonio 25. Technicals-(Rodman 12). Houston 46 (Thorpe 11). Assists-
similar position at Hofstra. 

Seattle at Los Angeles lakers. 10:30 p.m. 
New Jersey at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Williams, Cummings, Portland illegal defense. A-Detroit 29 (Dumars, V.Johnson 10), Houston 25 
NORTHERN ARIZONA-Named Linda Bruns 
Cleveland at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 15,561. (Maxwell 6). Total fouls-Detroit 23, Houston 21. 
women's head basketball coach. 

Technicals-Oiajuwon, Floyd, Thomas, Aguirre. 
PITTSBURGH-Named Marvin Lewis outside 
A-16,611. 
linebackers coach. 

Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer page 19 
championships between the 
1977-78 and 1985-86 seasons,

Lacrosse team takes on Wooster NCAAs 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team looks to regain its win­ning ways as it takes on Wooster at the Loftus All­Sports Center on Saturday afternoon at 3 p.m. 
The Irish, 2-3 on the young season, own a commanding 7-1 edge in the lifetime series against Wooster (4-0). and prevailed in the last meeting between the two teams by an 8­7 margin. Also, Notre Dame is currently 2-0 at home, after having defeated Canisius College and Radford University. Yet aside from owning the series advantage and being nearly unbeatable at home, the Irish have another reason for optimism: the experience which they gained on their recent three-game jaunt down the Atlantic coast. 
"We've just come back from playing three of the Top 10 teams in the country," noted Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan, "And we need to find things we can do well and work on them. Our defense has out­standing talent, and it is impor­tant that we play like we did last week. We need to play with intensity on defense, and we can win if we do that." 
More good news for the Irish is the return to health of two talented sophomores, mid­fielder Brian Schirf and at­tacker Mike Sullivan. Schirf, who has recovered from his season-opening bout with mononucleosis, and Sullivan, who had been leading the Irish in goals scored this year and nursing an injured ankle, are both expected to play Saturday. 
"Our offense is coming along" continued coach Corrigan, "But most of our attack comes from our starters. Still, with Schirf and Sullivan healthier, our of­fense is healthier. But our fo­cus is on ourselves. We've seen them play and we've scouted them. The key to our success is that we play our best." 
Where the season is con­
cerned, a Notre Dame victory over Wooster would put the Irish in a better position in terms of NCAA postseason hopes before its crucial trip to the San Diego • State Tournament March 30, where the Irish will go up against the Air Force Academy. 
NOTES: Freshman goalie Chris Parent of Fairfield, Connecticut set a Notre Dame record with 29 saves in the Irish game against Adelphi in the consolation game of the Loyola Tournament on March 
18. Of the 61 shots taken by Adelphi, only 47 came near the goal, allowing Parent to make a record-breaking number of 29 saves. 
Senior attacker Brian McHugh of Parsippany, New Jersey is currently tied for sev­enth place on the Notre Dame lacrosse all-time scoring list. McHugh needs nine points to take sole possession of sixth place. 
AP Photo 

The Minnesota North Stars scored a big victory in their battle for the final playoff spot in the NHL's Norris Division by beating the Detroit Red Wings 5-2. In other NHL action last night Philadelphia beat Pittsburgh 5-3 and Boston hammered Quebec by a score of 7-3. 
.: . .. 
continued from page 24 
record, ended his college wrestling career with exactly 100 wins against 29 losses. His loss in the finals of the NCAA West Regional last weekend "disappointed" Irish coach Fran McCann, and it is likely that his failure to make weight did the same. 
In the third session, which will begin at noon on Friday, the amount of wrestlers in each weight class will. be cut from eight to four. The semifinals will begin at 7 p.m. tonight, and the championships will take place at 7 p.m. Saturday. 
Favored in the team competi­tion are Arizona State, Iowa and Oklahoma State. The Sun Devils, coached by Bobby Douglas, are the top-ranked team in the nation according to 
Amateur Wrestling News, and have qualified 10 wrestlers for the NCAA championships. ASU won the NCAAs in the 1987-88 season. 
The Hawkeyes, ranked third by AWN, won nine straight 
Twins 
continued from page 24 
guard-forward) departs, but will help next year at filling in at different areas." 
Cozen used only two of his college visits. He took a trip to Michigan State and Notre Dame before deciding he wanted to be part of a school that currently has 22 former Marist students. 
"He had Notre Dame in his mind the whole time," Marist coach Ken Styler said. "The prestige that Notre Dame has in the Chicagoland area had a big influence. I think he will be 
able  to  help  out  with  their  
perimeter game."  
The  Ross  twins  could  help  

ease the departure of Robinson and Paddock with their inside play. They led Northfield to the final eight this season before falling to unbeaten and current 
!:,: :, '•! ::! :! :! :! ::::N:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!:::::!:::::!:::::::!:!:::::::! 
11 ·:::. 
•!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
:-:r.~:·:::. ·o:·:;i.:+~~::o.··~Jlij8l ····:::·::
:jl(:!~e.:· : l ' lli&:'lilliil: •' ~ ·~: ' ' ' 
················································ 
·p···:·:·:·:·:··p·:·:·:·:·:s···:·:·:·:·:·:a·:
======~=====~= 
: . o···m· . ~~;: . ;;;;iii-·· :
····:: q·
: ·: · · : · . , u.a:.a.:, ..~~ ,
:. ::: ... : ·~~~·: ~.~:::.:.: 1::: ... :. I:·~·:·~:.~~: 
:::::: ': '•~1; :tt,:Q·:I:.i: :a·:' :t;':1' 6 :~·: ""~'t;':::::::
COLLEG~, 
·.~.·~ ...,,• ..:~ I a· 1 ~·~··· 
:::::: :!Y:f', 11 

1 I: t 11 1 I 1 I 1: 1 I 1:1 1 I 1 I I I I :::::: ~ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I&:
I .l.i.:&1_ 1 

~ '·' .. :. ' nt:;l~i,a;L "'()lfi' ~' ' '~rti:QUL:$
GRADUATE 
• ,~lP.:J1e.~ ... .'.~ .·. :·.~: ~~: .. : . . 
$~~~::M(trblll25~~r~:Ml~IW41~M
FINANCE 
' :~:~:~:~:~·~:f!:~:~:·:···:~:·:~:··~:~:~:~:·'~:·'~::·~:::~· '• 
·:::::;:.;,t :r.;:tf:··~:~:Nt:~t.ib.::JlJt:l:;:l.':'t!:::::
PLAN 
:::::M.. :~ ~~:~:~ ::l~~: iO;~~~t::::
I I I I I I I I I I I I It I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1111111 111111 11111111 1111 111111111 111111111 
::::.::: :::::: :::::: :::::::: :::: ::::::::: :::::::::
Jordan's Auto Mall 
YOU DESERVE 
~~.~~.t~ _,J~::.:.li.!J.:::1:::::i.We:::.~ ~:q.W~f::::i:_~~
SOME CREDIT. 
609 E. Jefferson 
:r.tl:J ~u· $: JoiY•Etilt;~u·-' tQ w 1: $u·U: 
'•' •'•' '•' • • •' •' • '• • •' • •' •' '• '''''' '' '' ''''
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
1111111 •••• ~ ••••• II •• 1.1111 1111 ·~··IIIII 111111111
YOU'VE EARNED IT. Mishawaka 
::::::: :::::: :::::: :::::::: :::: ::::::::: :::::::::
(219) 259-1981 

::::::: :::::: :::::: :::::::: :::: ::::::::: ::::::::: 
:·:·:·: :·:~:· 1:1:1: !•!•!•!• ·:·: :·:·:~:·: :1:1:1:·: 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
• ATTENTION: Grad Students 

Summer
Professors Employees 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. 


STORAGE
*locked intercom entrances 
•spacious floor plans w/country kitchens 
RESERVATION 
683-1959
CALL NOW 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 •GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 


2909 Sugc\r Mo.'lpk-Nonh 

South Bencf lndic\r\d 46228 
Master Mini Warehouses 
219. 277. 3731 
but have not won since. Iowa, coached by Dan Gable, thrashed the Irish by a score of 36-5 on February 25, and qualified nine wrestlers for the tournament. 
College Park, Maryland brings back some unpleasant memories for Gable's Hawkeyes. In 1987, they came into the arena wearing shirts with "X's" on them to symbolize the fact that they were going for their tenth straight national championship. Instead, they were the runner-ups in the tournament, and Iowa hasn't won an NCAA championship since (they were runners-up two years ago, and finished sixth last year), 
The team that could shut down ASU and lowa is defend­ing champion Oklalioma State. The Cowboys, coached by Joe Seay, are 2-1 versus Arizona State this season and also have defeated Iowa. Oklahoma State is ranked second in the country by AJ1'N. 
No. 1 Concord 54-52. 

They are strong candidates for the Indiana all-star team and have played in the shadows of media favorites Damon Bailey of Bedford, the all-time leading scorer in Indiana his­tory, and seven-foot Eric Montross of Lawrence North. 
"They carried us within two points of the Final Four," Northfield coach Steve McClure said. "With a break or two, we could still be playing. I think their game has spoken for itself through the season and through the tournament. I think it's going to be a crime if they both don't make the all­star team." 
Jon scored 18.7 points per game, while Joe averaged 14.6. Joe slightly outrebounded Jon, 260-251, during their senior seasons. 
"Joe's more of an inside player," Kilcullen said. "He plays well with his back to the basket. Jon can go inside as well as outside. They are both athletes who can move up and down the floor and have a 
great knowledge of the game. 

"We saw their developmentfrom sophomore year to junior year to where they are now and that development has been 
terrific," Kilcullen added. "They
won't be surprises to college 
recruiters. but they might be a surprise to the average fan." The Ross twins wanted to attend th e same coIIege. Purdue 
• d h h "] wh"l1 e 
recru1te t em eav1 y, Indiana also expressed interest. Northfield has produced Steve 
Ahlfeld, who played "or Indi"ana 
}I 

from 1973-75, and current Butler player Chad Fordyce. 
"They're going to have to get
stronger as post players at 
Notre Dame," McClure said. "They're above average shoot­ers for big men. Either of them can step out and be very ef­fective." 
Summt.>r lobs 

Over 50.000 summer job openings at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Businesses. Cru1se L1nes. Ranches. and more m the U.S.. Canada. 
Australia. and 20 gther countries. Complete d~rectory only $19.95. Don•t wait till after f1nals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Springs. CO 80937 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYUNG FOR 



The Observer

page 20 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cheerleader and Leprechaun Tryouts will be lwld this Friday and Saturday beginning at 
7:00 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Pit. All are welcome to attend. 
Sign-ups for women's bookstore basketball will be held March 26 from 6-9 
p.m. in the Sorin Hoom of LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall at St. Mary's. The fee is $5.00 per team. 
Anyone interested in signing up a mud volleyball team for Antostal, call Nacibe or Caryn at 1093. Cost is $7 per team. 
Interested Sports Writers for the remainder of this year and next fall should attend the new sports writers' meeting next Wednesday, March 28 at 7 p.m. at the Observer. 
Spring 
continued from page 24 
secondary. 
"This spring practice will probably be more critical than any I've had except my first year here in 1986," said Holtz. "It's like starting the job all over again. We're not maintaining anything. We're closing the books on last year." 
Eleven starters and 4 7 let­termen overall return from last season's second-ranked team. They will bn joined by yet an­other stellar recruiting class, one top-heavy on running backs and defensive backs. 
The most pressing needs, ac­cording to Holtz, are the quar­terback position and the defen­sive secondary, which returns only All-America cornerback Todd Lyght. Sophomores-to-be Hiek Mirer and Jake Kelchner are the only contenders for Hicn's vacated spot, while Hod Smith. Greg Davis and George Poorman look to replace the departed Stan Smagala, D'Juan Francisco and Pat Terrell in the secondary. 
The offensive line also needs an overhaul, with three of five starters lost to graduation. Tim Hyan returns at quick guard, but center and co-cap­tain Mike IIPidt, who dislocated his right Plbow in the Orange Bowl, will bP unable to partici­pate in spring practice. lie will be rnplaced by Gene McGuire. 
Linebacker Michael Stonebrnaker and defensive tackle George Williams return to action this spring after sit­ting out a year. Williams is a welcome addition to a defensive 
linn which loses tackle Jeff Aim. Stonebrt~aker hopes to return r,
to tlw form which placed him 
third in the 19R8 Butkus Award voting. llis return means that Donn Grimm will move to thP "Mike" line.backer position, filled last season by Ned Bolcar. 
Ho(hwy Culver is the fron­trunner to replace Johnson at fullbaek. Otlwrs nxpnr.tnd to r.ompPtP for starting positions indudP Tony Smith at split end, Winston Sandri, Jop AIIPn and .Justin Hall at ofTensivc tackle, M i rko J u rkovic at offensive guard and Troy Hidglny at de­fPnsive tarklP. 
Norm Balentine, Pierre Martin and Michael Smalls have left Notre Damn because of academic problems 11ml am 
not included on 

The scorekeeper's meeting for Bookstore Basketball will be held in the Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune) at 7:30 on March 28. 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will have its first home match of the 1990 season this Saturday vs. Dayton. The first game will start at 1 p.m. on Stepan Field. 
Interested Sportscasters who want to join the WVFI (640 a.m.) sports staff should attend an informational meeting next Tuesday, Mach 27 at 9 p.m. in the WVFI station on the second floor of LaFortune. Questions? Call Vic at 283-2924. 
The Bookstore Basketball captain's meeting will be on March 26 at Cushing Auditorium from 7-9 p.m. 
the 89-man 
roster for spring practice. Former Irish tailback Tony Brooks is still awaiting re­admission to the university. 
lleldt and rush end Devon McDonald will not participate in spring drills due to injury, and tight end Jacobs, who has recovered from a broken ankle suffered last year against Air Force, is now playing for the Irish baseball team. McDonald had arthroscopic surgery per­formed on his right knee this winter. 
"This is a football team that needs to be put back together," said Holtz. "That includes the staff, and it does pose some problems." 
The Irish coaching staff sports four new faces this 

spring, filling the voids left when defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez, defensive line coach John Palermo and run­ning backs coach Jim Strong left to take head coaching posi­tions at Wisconsin, Austin-Peay and UNLV, respectively. 
Former Florida defensive co­ordinator and interim head coach Gary Darnell takes over as defensive coordinator and inside linebacker coach. Dick Bumpas, who served as a grad-
Friday, March 23, 1990 
Softball team finally plays at home 
By CHARLIE POLLARD Sports Writer 
It has been a long time com­ing, but the Notre Dame women's softball team will fi­nally play a home game. 
After playing their first thir­teen games on the road, the team's record stands at 4-7 (not including last night's late doubleheader at Valparaiso). However, the outlook is not as bleak. The competition has been stiff and the team's per­formance positive. 
"We have struggled a little bit early this season," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. "But we have basically played pretty well against some very good competition." 
The competitive early season schedule can only help the Irish as they not only play their first home game, but their first MCC conference game as well. This weekend's action features two doubleheaders against confer­ence rivals. 
Today, the Irish face the Lady Titans of Detroit at 3:30 p.m. On Sunday they will play the Dayton Flyers beginning at 1 
p.m. Both doubleheaders will be played on Alumni Field. 
the team's confidence as well as a soothing dose of revenge if the Irish could manage throe or four wins this weekend. ;\ year ago, both Detroit and Dayton took two of three games from Notre Dame in the season series. Subsequently, Notre Dame had to settle for a third place finish in the final MCC standings. 
Last year's conference win­ner, Detroit, is again favored to top the MCC standings. The Lady Titans return their entire pitching staff. Dayton is stocked with returning starters as well. Coach Boulac knows that this weekend's games will be challenging. 
"Against these two teams we just can't let our mistakes beat us. The mental errors always seem to come back to haunt you," said Boulac. "If we can eliminate those, we should be a good team." 
Sophomore co-captain Huth Kmak has had a hot bat of late and her leadership will be cru­cia! this weekend. On the mound, the stellar pitching of sophomore Missy Linn will be counted on to aid the Irish cause. In Linn's last outing, she beat Temple 8-1 yielding only three hits while striking out 
uate assistant under Holtz at It would be a h boost to four and walking none. 
Arkansas, will coach the defen-,.llllli•Iilil••••llllll••••••••••lil••••••
sive line. Peter Vaas, former head coach at Allegheny College, will coach the Irish running backs, while voluntary assistant Skip Holtz serves as wide receivers coach. 


Join 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
Future Notre Damer: 
JOSEPH LADEK 01 
FlntGrade Hol)r Name ol Mary New Orleans, LA 

~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::::;~ 
JOIN THE 1990-1991 DOME STAFF 
Applications for staff positions including EDITOR-IN-CHIEF are now available in the Student Activites Office 315 LaFortune 
Be a part of the Notre Dame yearbook! 

THE WHARF INTRODUCES 
AWine'r of a Deal 
Wine, Rose 
and a 

Complete Dinner for Two 
INCLUDING: 
A select Bottle of Wine (Must be 21 years of age.) 
· A Longstem Rose for your Sweetheart. Complete Dinner for Two with soup or salad bar, run of the 
menu, including Live ~~~~~!!I Maine Lobster, and ~-'>./' choice of dessert. 
A Sweetheart ofa Deal 
Ont!44.95 
THE WHARF 
JOO E. COLFAX AT THE RIVER OFFER VALID FEI3RUARY & fv\ARCH, 1990 
~~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~mr 

INTERRACIAL DATING 
Where do you stand on the issue? 
Come and let us know! 
Date: Sunday, March 25 Time:7:00 PM Place: 220 Hayes-Healy 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Sponsored by NAACP 

Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer page 21 
Notre Dame baseball hits the road again for weekend doubleheaders 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Assistant Sports Editor 
For the fifth consecutive weekend the Notre Dame base­ball team is packing up its equipment and setting out on the road for competition. This weekend the Irish will face Indiana for a doubleheader on Saturday and Butler for an­other pair of games on Sunday. 
The primary reason for this weekly flight from South Bend is the poor weather conditions during this time of year. Nobody wants to play baseball under torrents of rain and snow, and since it is equally unappealing to play baseball indoors, the Irish baseball team goes mobile. 
This consistent road obliga­tion is not advantageous for its players. 
1631 E. Edison St. At the corner of Edison & St. Rd. 23 Just off N.D. campus 
$10.99 C Ds & $6.99 Tapes 
"It is tough on any team, any person or any anything," said head coach Pat Murphy. "With this weekend, these kids will have traveled for five straight weekends. It's tough to main­tain consistent grades with this kind of schedule, but for a team with a lot of 18-year-olds, they're handling it pretty well." 
Despite being a team loaded with freshmen, the Irish have enjoyed success early, jumping out to a respectable 10-4 record in the early going of the season. Currently on a 19-game road trip, they have won nine out of their last 10 games. 
Indiana, which split two games with the Irish last year en route to a 34-26 record, has a relative advantage early in the season. Since the school is located five hours south of Notre Dame, the comparatively 

Pat Murphy 

warmer climate allows the team to hold practices and play games outdoors on a consistent basis. Add to that the fact that Indiana usually starts out the season strong, and the Irish may have their hands full. 
"We like to have two tough 
filannah Myles 
)ane Child 
Lenny Kravitz 
The Beloved 
Chris Rea Enuff Znuff Everything But the Girl . 'o"t 
M ichel·le e'~e(~~::,~,,a&C PLOS LOU MORE! 
.· 6m ytdn On Salt..... 
. 
~5,.'...··.... ,,.... ~ 
.·---"···"-­

games with Indiana" said Murphy. 'They're a Big 10 club, definitely within our reach. It's difficult to beat them, and they have the early advantage of be­ing outside more." 
Butler, 12-32 and winless in five tries against the Irish last year, has Murphy worried. 
"Butler beat Indiana, and now they're dying to beat us. They're very very hungry, so that's the game that I'm really concerned about." 
This weekend's action should promise challenges for the Irish pitching staff. Loaded with tal­ent, the squad boasts a 2.98 earned run average, the lowest it has ever been under coach Murphy. Four starting pitchers· on the 10-man staff are fresh­men, each of whom is playing an important role on the team. 
"We've got talented throwers 
Notre Dame men to host Boilermakers 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team (16-3) will play its first home match in over a month in hosting Purdue Saturday at 1 
p.m. The Irish are coming off a sixth place finish in the University of Texas Invitational, which took place last weekend. 
The Irish are currently ranked 22nd in the nation, and first singles man Dave DiLucia is ranked 30th in the country. Freshman Andy Zurcher leads the team in wins with 25 against only eight setbacks. He has a 10-1 record at the fifth singles position, where he has played for most of the year. 
Two other Irish players have over 20 wins on the season. Second doubles ace Chuck Coleman (22-12) is one; DiLucia is the other. 
The first doubles team of DiLucia and Mike Wallace will try to lead Notre Dame to its 17th win of the season against Purdue. The DiLucia!Wallace tandem has combined for a 9-2 mark on the season, leading the Irish doubles teams to amass a 30-9 overall record. 

who've got to learn to become pitchers," explained Murphy. ''I'm pleased that they've shown traces of being good pitchers. But statistics don't mean a whole lot after 14 games. But they've done very well so far, which I expect." 
The starters for this weekend will be senior Brian Piotrowicz and freshman Pat Leahy on Saturday and sophomore Joe Binkiewicz and Chad Hartvigson or Alan Walania, both freshmen, on Sunday. 
The pitching staffs status is representative of the entire team, which is in the learning stages and has "a long way to go." One freshman who has been setting the bases on fire has been Eric Danapilis, who is hitting .377 with nine RBis and seven stolen bases. The team batting average is .244. 
" 


By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame track team will kick off its outdoor season at 10:30 a.m. this Saturday by hosting the Snowshoe Invitational at Krause Stadium. While schools such as Michigan State, Western Michigan, and Lewis University will attend the meet, Irish head coach Joe Piane is quick to point out that the competition's main purpose is to prepare for the rest of the season. 
"It's a very low-key affair," said Piane. "We're not really looking for results, but for competitive performances." 
Because the non-scored con­test is only a preliminary to the rest of the schedule, many of Notre Dame's runners either will not participate or plan to run in events below their usual level. For example, All­American Mike O'Connor who placed fifth in the 5,000 meter run at the NCAA Indoor Championships, will not com­pete. 
. "Mike won't run because he doesn't really need the race," said Paine, referring to the team captain. "lie could use a weekend of non-racing to relax and praetice." 
Piane emphasized that the 
meet's purpose for the other 
members of the Irish squad is 
to show their capability and 
competitiveness. 
"Competitiveness is the only 
logical goal this weekend, with 
the weather and everything," 
said Piane, "so most of the 
runners will compete down a. 
level. Hyan Cahill will step 
down from the 3000 to the 
1500 and Shawn Schneider will 
run tlw ROO instead of his usual 
longer distance. Again, Yan 
Searcy, our team captain, will 
run the 100 and 200 instead of 
the 400." 
Paine gave many reasons for 
the loose approach. lie ex­
plained that for most of the 
teams attending, the contest is 
the first outdoor compntition of 
the season. For Notre Dame, it 
.·­
+ 
American 
Red Cross 
is also the first time many of the Irish will have competed since February. 
The meet also should prepare the Irish for the start of their regular schedule, which begins next weekend. Notre Dame will travel to Texas March 31 to take on Rice, Harvard and Minnesota. 
"The competitiveness should 
help determine future placing," 

Friday, March 23, 1990 
Women's tennis defeats Broncos 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team boosted its record to 8-5 with a strong 7-2 win over the Western Michigan Broncos at home last night. 
The Irish clinched the win during singles competition, taking five of the six possible victories. The only singles player to fall was Kristy Doran, who lost 6-2, 6-2, at the number four spot. Doran was filling in for fourth-seed regu­lar Alice Lohrer, who was away at a job interview. 
Tracy Barton won easily at Notre Dame's top singles spot, beating Western Michigan's best with seores of 6-2, 6-2. Melissa Harris, Notre Dame's numbnr-two seed, followed suit, beating Amy McClure in a bat­tle-from-behind victory in three sets, 2-6, 6-4, 6-2. Katie Clark, at the third Irish spot, also snatched a comeback victory, winning 4-6, 6-4, 6-1. 
Because of the singles vi£to­rie's, Irish coach Jay Louderback opted to substitute some less experienced duos for the regular doubles teams. 
Tyler  Musleh  took  over  
Barton's number  one  doubles  
Piane said.  

Despite the relaxed atmo­sphere of this weekend's meet, Piane insists that the visiting squads should provide some excellent competition. 
"We'll be challenged in the field events definitely," said the 15th year coach, "and in the distances by Michigan State. It should be a good experience for everyone." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
LADYKILLERI 

IMik• *WOMANIZER• llrkwoodJ 
love, 
Yolanda 

last of 1he 

Tracy Barton 

spot, competing with top dou­bles regular Anne Bradshaw. The two lost in two snts, 6-1, 6­2. 
Louderback, though nervous before facing the Broncos. was 
cause I was afraid we were taking them too lightly," said the coach. "They're a good team. I didn't think we played as well as we have been. We started off a little slow; it hap­pens sometimes. 
"Our singles teams played well. though. Katie (Clark) and Melissa (Harris) both fought back after losing their first >ets. Thev both ended uo olav­ing great third set~." 
Ill 
ALUMNI "'·""'-----~.w.¥:WSILMXt.t·:~
SENIOR ~.....XKMW!iv-..~.,.,.,.,., 
Last night's win was the start of a four-day. four'-game week­end for the Irish. The team will travel to Purdue today and Indiana University tomorrow, before returning home Sunday to face Marquette. 
Louderback feels that the Western Michigan victory was a good warm up for the upcom­ing matchns. 
"It was good for us today to get everyone in and give somn people some rest," said thn coach. "The main thing this weekend, having four in a row, is to get through it with every­one healthy." 
or course, tlw coach would likn to chalk up a fnw wins along thn way. and a victory over rival Indiana would bn especially swnnt. 
generally  satisfied  with  his  
team's perf ormance.  
"I  was  a  little  nervous  be­ 

"Indiana is ranked 20th na­tionally and first in our rngion, so we want to be ready for them," said Louderback. "They're going to want to beat us, so it should be a good match." 
"We've never beaten Indiana 
before, but we're gntting 
closer," continued the coach. 
"There haven't been many 
schools in the region who have 
pushed them, and that's what 
we're hoping to do." 

Lunch nowll 
Noon-2

&!:CLUB. 
"TONITE Uve 

"The Boathouse Blues Band" 
Saturday-Play ball­
pretend you can pitch••• 
Happy 21st Birthday Dave! 
Love, Mom, 
Dad, Janice 
and Brian 


j 
Friday, March 23, 1990 The Observer page 23 
... 

5-9 p.m. Home and Garden Show. JACC Fieldhouse. 
7:30 & 9:45p.m. Film, "Field of Dreams," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. 
8 p.m. WWF Superstars of Wrestling. JACC Arena. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
1:45 p.m. Lecture, "An expert system--based environ­mental assessment system," by Carlos Rosas, Merck Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Division. Washington Hall. Sponsored by the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. 
4 p.m. Lecture by Allen Greenberg. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by the school of architecture spring 1990 lecture series. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Manifolds of non-positive curva­ture," Professor Werner Ballman, University of Bonn, West Germany. Room 226 Math Building. Coffee in Room 201 at 4 p.m. Sponsored by the Dept. of Mathematics. 
MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Irish Fried Flounder  Savory Rice and Spinach Bake  
Mushroom Quiche  Herbed Baked Fish  
Vegetables Marinara  Cheese Ravioli  
Gabby Crabby  Deli Bar  

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Covers for 
51-compos (out of touch) 52 Field hand of yore 54-retreat (decamp) 55 Sad songs 57 Worn down 59 Heifetz contemporary 60 Carson-Sajak alternative 62 Oxlike African antelope 63 Heathery hill 64"-Can": Sammy Davis Jr. 65 Remains in the air 
66-Willard, 1919 Dempsey victim 
67 Barbara Bush, -Pierce 
DOWN 

1 Make for the 
harbor 2 Magnetic alloy 3 Heavenly quaff 
4 City once called Hadria Picena 5 Leyte's neighbor 6 Fin. troubleshooter 7 Female lobster a Wheels, honchos et al. 9 Filled with interstices 10 Army medic 
1 Kind of Chinese pottery 4 "East River" author aln-(minus basic data) 
13 Kind of engr. 
15 Sprinter's target 
16 Wry humor 
17 Peter Jennings, e.g 
19Nez-. Northwest Indian tribe 
20 Vittorio Emanuele, re 

21 Magnetic­change line on a map 
22"-for naebody": Burns 
bldgs. 26 Fighting Tigers at 
Baton Rouge 27 Cousins or Lear 29 Old-time 
illuminants, 32 Spiced hot wine beverage 34 Clerical 
vestment 35 Agt.'s cut 38 Hotel 
functionary 40 High-wire accessory 
41 "-Foolish Things ..."· 1935 ballad 
43 Surrounded by 44 Caballero's date 46 Two-time AL. 
homer leader Thomas 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

48 Berserkers 
49 Parade-ground command 50 UK nursemaid 53 Miss Kett et al. 55 Sea or six preceder 
56 Means justifie~s 
58 Lines on AAA. maps 60 Winner over B.M.G.: 1964 
61 "... -the mightiest Julius fell": Shak. 
11 Loose a caboose 12-and 
terminer 14 Kind of bracelet 18 Poisonous 
evergreen shrub 21 IceI. or Ire. 24 Like some 
Olympic 
bobsleds 25 Doohickey 28 Modernist 30 Description of 
an English horn 

31 Adamant 33 World Series unfortunates 35Gal. components 36 Bedspread 
material 37 A saxophonist 39 Sharp-cornered: 
Abbr. 42--dance 
man 45 Book ends? 47 Demoisturize 
again 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



The Observer/E.G. Bailey The Notre Dame Fencing team will host the NCAA fencing championships this weekend. 
... 
Sports
page 24 
ND fencers to host NCAA tourney 
By CHRIS RLLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing teams have poised themselves in an excellent position to con­tend once again for the NCAA national championships. which will be held here at Notre Dame from March 24 through March 28. 
The Irish accomplished this by putting on quite an exhibi­tion at the Midwest Regionals two weeks ago in Detroit, MI. qualifying all three weapons for the men as well as the women's squad. 
"We did very well, in fact, better than I had expected," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "My major concern was qualifying all our weapons, espt)dally the epee team." 
That concern was dispelled quite readily. as epeeists David Calderhead, Jubba Beshin and Derek Holeman propelled the squad to one of this year's Midwestern bids. 
The sabre team received a powerful performance from sophomore Chris Baguer, who 

, 
Irish rebuild football team as spring practice begins 
BY FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
To Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz, spring practice presents both physical and so­da! benefits for the student-athlete. In addi­tion to fostering physical development and im­provement, it encourages player/coach rela­tionships without the pressure of specific game preparation. 
Today the Irish begin five wP..eks of spring drills that will culminate with the annual Blue­Gold game on Saturday. April 28 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Recent NCAA legislation threatened to radi­cally reduce, if not eliminate, spring practice to give the student-athlete more time to concentrate on academics. 
The NCAA Presidents Commission reduced the number of spring football practices from 20 (contact in 15) within a 36-day period to 15 (contact in 1 0) within a 21-day period at January's NCAA Convention in Dallas. The Presidents Commission defended the measure as protecting the student-athlete from exces­sive practice and meeting time. 
"I'm very much disappointed with the legis­lation," Holtz said in a recent interview with Blue and Gold Illustrated. "We're not talking about practicing at the expense of the student­athlete. And the legislation is not going to make these young men better students. 
"But I do think it's going to disrupt a young man's opportunity to improve himself as a football player. More emphasis is being placed teamed with All-American Leszek Nowosielski and James Taliaferro in garnering the top sabre seed for both the Midwest and the NCAA tour­nament. It is highly likely that Nowosielski, who hails from Ottawa, Ontario, will be seeded number one as well in the indi­vidual sabre competition. 
"The sabre team was excep­tional that weekend," said DeCicco. "We always expect Leszek to perform well, but Chris' finish was an added bonus. The sabre squad is very, very solid going into the tour­nament." 
For the men's foil team went about business as usual, taking the number one seed nationally. Freshman Noel Young led the charge with help from class­mate Jeff Piper and junior Phil Leary. 
A late-season surge by the women's squad which produced two dual meet victories over de­fending national champions Wayne State, coupled with a fine finish in the Midwest Regional, made them the third Irish squad to be presented a number one spot tor the NCAA tourney. Senior Annn Barreda will be joined by sophomore Heidi Piper and senior Kristin Kralicek as they attempt to give women's head coach Yves Auriol his third national cham­pionship team in three years. 
"Obviously, I feel cautiously optimistic about being seeded number one in three out of four weapons," said DeCicco. "It proves that we're at least in the same league as the other top schools like Penn, Penn State and Columbia." 
Those teams, along with Yale and NYU in women's foil, should be the top competition at this year's championships. 
"I'm just hoping that everyone will fence to their capabilities this next week," said DeCicco. "Unless there is some sort of disparity in the seedings, a top one, two, or three performance in each weapon will put us in excellent positions for contention." 
This Saturday's competition will kick off with the men's sabre at 10:30 a.m. 
Quad-captain Ricky Watters will lead the Notre Dame football team as spring practice begins today, 
on talent rather than working to improve 
yourself. I just think limiting spring practice is 
a disservice to everybody involved." 
Spring practice takes on even greater impor­tance for Notre Dame this year as the Irish must replace 11 of 22 starters from last sea­son's 12-1 squad, including quarterback Tony Rice, fullback Anthony Johnson, much of the offensive line and three of four starters in the 
see SPRING I page 20 

Four wrestlers advance past preliminaries 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame wrestlers Pat Boyd, Mark Gerardi, Marcus Gowens and Steve King won their first. matches at the NCAA championships in College Park, Maryland, Thursday. 
The first session of the tour­nament began at 10 a.m. with Irish wrestlers Boyd. Gerardi, Gowens and King advancing. Results were not available from the second round matches, which began at 7 p.m. last night. 
Boyd, who as a senior is the most highly regarded Irish wrestler. decisioned hometown favorite R.C. Papa of Maryland in the preliminary round of the 142-pound division by an 8-3 score. 
Boyd is currently ranked third in the nation by Amateur Wrestling News and will prob­ably face his toughest tests in 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Friday, March 23, 1990 

later rounds against top­ranked Tom Ortiz of Arizona State and second-ranked Joe Reynolds of Oklahoma. Boyd has never faced Ortiz, but he did defeat Reynolds in last year's NCAA Tournament. 
At 28-3-1, Boyd has suffered fewer losses than any other Irish wrestler. lie was named Most Outstanding Wrestler in both the Southern California Invitational and the National Catholic Tournament this year. A national championship at 142 pounds would be a sweet ending to his senior year. 
At 167 pounds, Gerardi, a junior who can boast of the top record on the Notre Dame team (35-5), decisioned Tom Socker of Bloomsburg 14-6 in the preliminary round. 
Gowens, a sophomore who wrestles at 126 pounds, won a 10-8 preliminary round deci­sion over Jeff Naes of Cal-State Fullerton, an opponent hP had 
Hoops recruits look promising 
Five seniors on the Notre Dame men's basketball team \ will graduate in May and . take more than 3,000 career points with them. '
1~...
·.·

The Irish have recruited 
J~'~ 
.

three talented high school 
seniors and might add more 
.....

in the coming weeks to help 
fill those gaps left by Joe Greg Guffey 
Fredrick, Keith Robinson, 
Sports Editor
Jamere Jackson. Scott Paddock and Tim Crawford. 
Notre Dame signed Carl Cozen of Marist High School in Chicago and Joe and Jon Ross, 6-9 twins from Northfield High School in Indiana, in November's early signing period. 
"All three will complement our returning players well," Notre Dame assistant coach and recruiting coordinator Matt Kilcullen said. 
Kilcullen hopes to add one or two names to that list in the coming weeks. Jason Williams, a junior from Indianapolis Pike, has verbally committed to Notre Dame for the 1991-92 season. 
Cozen is the first Marist player since 1967 to sign with a Division I school. Kevin O'Reardon went to Wichita State in 196 7 and later transferred to Jacksonville. 
The 6-6 forward averaged 19.3 points per game and shot 51 percent from the field to lead Marist to a 16-11 record this year. Cozen, the all-time leading scorer in Marist history with 1446 points, has faced a variety of specialty defenses this season, especially the box-in-one. 
"Carl Cozen has the ability to go outside and shoot the three-pointers as well as mix it up inside," Kilcullen said. "He was a kid that stood out in our minds who could play a variety of spots. lie can help us out when Kevin Ellery (a 6-5 
see TWINS I page 19 
NCAA Results 
Midwest Regional 
Texas 102, Xavier 89 Arkansas 96, UNC 73 
East Regional 
UConn 71, Clemson 70 Duke 90, UCLA 81 
Sen page 17 fur details 
lost to Parlier in the year. 
Surprising freshman Steve King, who qualified for the NCAA tournament by winning the NCAA West Regional at 190 pounds last weekend, won a 2­1 preliminary round decision to raise his season record to 20­15-1. 
Radenbaugh, a senior who finished the season with a 20-4 
see NCAAs I page 19 







