
VOL. XXIII NO. 102 
MONDAY, MARCH 5, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. soldier dies in Panama City 
PANAMA CITY. Panama (AP) 11:30 p.m., then sped away in a nals," Maj. Gen. Marc Cisneros, -An American soldier died of car. There was no immediate commander of the U.S. Army injuries suffered in a grenade claim of responsibility. It was South, said Saturday. "We attack on a discotheque, and the first such attack on U.S. must work together to bring six U.S. servicemen remained soldiers in Panama since the these criminals to justice." hospitalized, the U.S. military Dec. 20 invasion that ousted Six Americans were reported said Sunday. dictator Manuel Noriega. hospitalized late Sunday in sat­
A statement from the ·u.s. "We are saddened by the isfactory condition, and seven Southern Command said Army death of Army Specialist An­were released. Hospital officials Specialist Anthony Ward, 21, of thony Ward and convey our said 12 Panamanians were Houston. died at 5:15 p.m. Sat-heartfelt condolences to his injured and three were in inten­urday of injuries to the chest family," said a White House sive care, but in stable condi­and abdomen. He died at the statement from presidential tion. Earlier, the Southern 
U.S. military's Gorgas Hospital spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. Command had said 11 Pana­in Panama City. "This is an unfortunate incident manians were wounded. There 
Ward was among 16 Ameri-that mars the heroic steps the was no explanation for the dif­can servicemen and 12 Pana-people of Panama are taking in fering figures. manians injured late Friday in building democracy." Southern Command officials banded, Panamanian officials The attack occurred hours the attack on the disco, My Panamanian police said they and the head of Panama's Judi­have expressed concern that after Noriega's wife, three Place, which was known to be had questioned several wit­cial Technical Police met Satur­paramilitary groups Noriega daughters and grandson left frequented by Americans. nesses to the bombing but an-day to discuss the case. organized could resurface. Panama for Havana. As they 
Witnesses said two men nounced no arrests. Although organized resis­Large caches of weapons are left Panama City, they were yelling "Long live Noriega!" "We ask Panamanian citizens tance to the American invasion believed to remain hidden surrounded by hundreds of threw a grenade through a to free their society of these died out quickly and Noriega's around the country, officials 
see PANAMA I page 4 
glass wall of the disco at about tvoes of terrorists and crimi-Defense Forces have been dis-say. 
Greyhound strikers suspend picketing to mourn death 
(AP) --Some striking Grey­during the weekend to handle table for good-faith bargaining scene. He told mvestigators The victim was preparing to hound Lines Inc. workers applications. on a fair and equitable con­later that he hadn't realized he retire this year, said his wife, stayed off the picket line Sun­When the strike by the Amal­tract," Strait said. hit anyone, according to a Dorie Waterhouse. day in memory of a co-worker gamated Council of Greyhound The union, which represents statement released Sunday by "It really wasn't even his killed while picketing, and a Local Unions began Friday, it more than 9,000 employees, the Redding Police Department. strike," Mrs. Waterhouse said. federal official said fewer small initially stranded thousands of went on strike after negotia­Pickets trying to slow the bus "But he was in there in support companies than expected had passengers. But the company tors in Scottsdale, Ariz., failed yelled at the driver and hit the of his fellow drivers. He kept applied to temporarily take brought in temporary drivers to reach agreement on wage is­bus with their signs as it pulled saying, "It's a matter of self Greyhound routes. and Greyhound Chairman Fred sues. The strikers include the away from the terminal, and pride." 
Glenn Early, regional compli­Currey claimed the company company's 6,300 drivers. the bus had a minor crash with 
ance officer for the U.S. Inter­kept 25 percent of its routes On Sunday, some strikers in a striker's pickup truck on the Striking drivers in Olympia, state Commerce Commission in running, with the help of some Washington state stayed off the way out, police said. He later Wash., said they would cancel Philadelphia, said an ICC board union drivers crossing picket picket lines in honor of Robert flagged down a Highway Patrol picketing Sunday to observe a 
approved four temporary ap­lines. Waterhouse, 59, a union mem­car to report the minor crash, day of mourning for Water­plications Saturday for bus Union President Edward ber who was killed on a picket and was taken in for question­house. companies in the eastern re­Strait said Sunday that mem­line Saturday in Redding, Calif. ing about the striker's death, In addition to the death, there gion. The region includes 23 bers had carefully counted Waterhouse was crushed police said. have been a few violent inci­states from Maine to Florida, union drivers crossing picket against a building by a bus No charges were filed, and dents, including shots fired at a but none of the companies lines and spotted just 95. driven by a driver hired as a police referred the case to the bus in Chicago on Friday. serves points south of Virginia, "We ... hope that Greyhound temporary replacement. District Attorney for a final de­he said. management will soon realize Greyhound's Currey said he termination. In Philadelphia, police said a 
that the only way they will be was told the driver was trying "We don't believe that he in­Greyhound passenger awaited "The response is not what we able to provide the traveling to maneuver around a pickup tentionally ran over this per­arraignment Sunday on a expected," Early said Sunday. public with safe and affordable truck driven by a striker. son," Redding police investiga­charge of simple assault for al­ICC offices in Chicago and intercity bus transportation is The replacement driver, tor John Severson said Satur­legedly spraying a striker with 
San Francisco also stayed open by returning to the negotiation Theodore Graham, left the day. a pocket tear gas canister. 

Professors study academic tracking 
By LIZ HOLTZ 

News Writer 
Academic tracking plays an important role in the way friends in high school influence each other's college aspirations and eventual attendance, according to a nationwide study completed by two Notre Dame faculty members. 
This finding is only one of a series that Maureen Hallinan, a White professor of Arts and Letters in sociology and the principal investigator of the NO study, and Richard Williams, assistant professor of sociology, have conducted regarding friendships. 
Data was collected from more than 20,000 high school students by the National Opinion Research Center in the U.S. Department of Education for the study. 
In the survey, one item students indicated was whether they were in an academic track or a vocational track. Hallinan said, "As expected, there are sharp differences between students in the academic and non-academic tracks with respect to college plans and attendance." 
One interesting finding in the survey was that students have higher aspirations and educational outcomes when they have a best friend in a different track, although the reason for this remains unclear. 
However. different track friends are less in­fluential than same track friends in shaping a 

The Observer/Kevin Weise 
student's college plans and college attendance, 

Fowl weather comes to ND
Hallinan said. 

Yesterday's mild weather brought some birds to campus. However, they might want to go south today due to expected see FRIENDS I page 4 clouds and cold temperatures. 


Monday, March 5, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
U.S. shows 


hypocrisy with Court ruling 
It is incredibly 
ironic that the United States, which hails it­self as the champion and promoter of democratic rights throughout the world, finds it reasonable to 

exclude itself from Sandra Wiegand honoring these rights 
in its dealings with Asst. News Editor 
foreign countries. · 
Last week the Supreme Court ruled that the Fourth Amendment, which guarantees rights against unreasonable search and seizure, does not apply in foreign countries. American law-enforcement agencies will not be required to have a search warrant before searching private property in foreign coun­tries. In altering the amendment, the Supreme court has demonstrated once again that U.S. "ideology" can be disposed of when circumstances make it convenient. 
American politicians are fond of talking about the country's commitment to human rights, as if there were a moral basis for 
U.S. foreign policy which is geared toward the goal of universal freedom. But our ac­tions show that the real goal is more power (or sustained power) for the United States, regardless of whether we abide by our own ethics to attain it. 
The implications are great. We lose our credibility with other countries since our rhetoric and our actions are in direct con­flict. It is striking enough that the U.S. should feel it is qualified to make such a de­cision on its own, rather than through an international court or assembly. The Supreme Court addressed only the right of the U.S. to disregard the amendment; if an­other country did the same, we would cer­tainly call it a criminal action. The ruling implies that the U.S. considers itself on a higher plane than other countries, a plane where laws are unnecessary. 
The idea involves circular logic. We are disregarding the Fourth Amendment be­cause we think it will help us enforce the law. We want to cure all the evils in the world because we are morally superior to them, but because we are morally superior, we can disregard our own moral standards in order to impose justice. Regardless of how much we want to convict Manuel Nor­iega, the situation should not be such that we can send troops to a foreign country to extract a criminal by means that are illegal in our own country, then take him to this country for a "fair trial" by our legal sys­tem. The contradiction trivializes the Amer­ican judicial system, as well as our demo­cratic ideals. 

Checks and balances are very important to our law system, and we cannot assume that our law enforcement agencies will be infallible in deciding in what situations it would be responsible to conduct searches on foreign land. A search warrant is a check which helps ensure that our military does not have too much individual power in foreign countries. 
NATIONAL 

Space shuttle Atlantis landed safely on a Califor­Hundreds of Machinists union members. their nia desert runway Sunday, completing a secret military relatives and other supporters chanted "one day longer" mission that included the launch of a $500 million spy Sunday outside Eastern Airlines headquarters in Miami as 
satellite. Atlantis, carrying a crew of five military men, they marked the first anniversary of their strike. Hun­plunged through the Earth's atmosphere in a long fiery dreds more strikers and supporters rallied at LaGuardia dive, flashed over the California coastline north of Los Airport in New York and other cities with large Eastern Angeles and touched down at Edwards Air Force base at union memberships. Strikers rallied Saturday at Atlanta. 
10:08 a.m. PST. 
INDIANA 

Gary Cook was elected Sunday night to fill the At least three Richmond police officers are ex­seat in the Indiana House of Representatives left vacant pected to testify Monday when the extortion trial of by the death of his father, Rep. G. Edward Cook. Demo­former Wayne County Prosecutor Gerald Surface contin­
cratic precinct committeemen from House District 17 ues. Federal authorities told officers Mike Chambers, elected Cook 19-15 over George Schricker, a semi-retired Charles Fitzgerald and Richard Shoemaker to be ready to Plymouth businessman and son of former Gov. Henry testify in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis. Schricker. District 17 includes parts or all of Fulton, La­Porte, Marshall, Pulaski and Strake counties. 
-The~-0-.bse.~~or_----. . .&.-=Y:.'-' ­PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)·239-7471 
Today's Staff: Systems Sports
Amalia Meier Th eresa Kelly Dan Towers 
Production Business Beth Peterson
Pete Loftus Monica Yant Christine Anderson Erin O'Neil 
Lauren Deluca Maureen Gallagher 
Acoanl Viewpoint 
Cristina Oniz Ad Design John Cronin 
Uz Havel Mindy Breen 
Jeanne Naylor 
Kelly McHugh 

WEATHER Forecast for noon, Monday, March 5. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
0 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Yesterday's high: 38 Yesterday's low: 18 Nation's high: 83 (Buckeye and Gila Bend, AZ; Bly1he, CA; Presidio, TX) Nation's low: -6 (Pellston, Ml) 
Forecast: Mostly cloudy Monday. Highs in the lower 30s. Mostly cloudy Monday night. Lows in the lower 20s. Mostly cloudy Tuesday. Highs in the lower 30s. 

Mikhail Gorbachev said sun­day that the breakup of the Soviet Union could be more devastating to his country than the ruinous Cultural Revolution that wracked China for 10 years. When asked by reporters if he could put up with the BaltiC republics declaring independence, Gorbachev 

said that trying to disentangle the na­tionalities of the Soviet Union after decades of living together would lead to trouble comparable to the upheaval in China that started in 1966. 
The Vancouver City Council has been askerl to approve the use of a nuclear-powered Soviet carrier for grain exports despite the city's declaration as a nuclear­free zone. Morflot Freightliners wants to use the nuclear­powered Sevmorput, an icebreaker-container carrier, for grain shipments from March through July at Canada's main West Coast port. 
The government of Jammu-Kashmir state in India offered Sunday to hold elections within six months in a bid to halt a Moslem uprising, and security forces launched new raids on suspected militant hideouts. Moslem militants boycotted November's national parlia­mentary elections and forced residents in Kashmir -part of Jammu-Kashmir state -to stay away from the polls. But Jagmohan, the top administrator of the state, said he had information that various militant groups were con­sidering giving up their arms and adopting the demo­cratic process to power. 
Nicaraguan rebels said Sunday they have taken steps toward demobilization and that President-elect Vio­leta de Chamorro should replace the Sandinista army with a civilian police force. The U.S.-supported Contra rebels said in a statement that they are in contact with leaders of the United National Opposition coalition, which upset the leftist Sandinistas in Nicaragua's Feb. 25 elections. 
CAMPUS 

A rare medieval instruction for young pastors has been donated to Notre Dame's Hes­burgh Library by Astrik Gabriel, professor and director emeritus in the University's Medieval In­stitute. 
The book,"Manipulus Curatorum," published in 1493, was written by a Spanish curate, Guido de Monte Rochen, for the benefit of young pastors and includes treatises on the seven Sacraments and on articles of faith. 
This is the only copy of the book in an American collegiate library. The book joins the Library's collection of nearly 80 incunabula (books printed before 1501). 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March 2, 1990 
Volume in shares 
164.33 Million 
NYSE Index 184.97 '1} 1.45 S&P Composite 335.54 '1} 2.80 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,660.36 '1} 24.77 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $3.40 to $405.60/ oz. 
Silver\7 2.8¢ to $5.126/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On March 5: 

e In 1770: Tlw Boston Mas­saem took plaee as British sol­diers who had been taunted by a crowd of colonists opened fire, killing several p1~ople. e In 1868: The Senate was organized into a Court of Im­peachment to decide charges against President Andr1~w John­son. e In 1933: In Germany, the Nazi Party won a majority of seats in parliamentary elec­tions. e In 1946: Former British Prime Minister Winston Churc­hill, during an address at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., spoke of an "Iron Curtain" stretching from the Baltic to the Adriatic. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
Monday, March 5, 1990 

The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Is it a basket? 
A group of students prepare for Bookstore Basketball. Late sign­ups will be held from 2-4 p.m. today at the SUB office. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
lJrcoming Events 
TUESDAY. MARCH 6 
Brown Bag Semln~~r 

REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C. 
Director of the Institute for Pastoral 
and Soclai.Minlstry 

"NICARAGUAN ELECTION: A REPORT FROM AN OBSERVER" 
----------------~-------------------------------­
The Observer page 3 


NO Security investigates assault 
are mentally handicapped, he said. No charges have been filed against the suspect. 
After leaving a dance at the Logan Center, a community center for the mentally handi­capped, the victim and suspect walked to the library. The vic­tim was found naked in a men's restroom in the basement at approximately 8:06 p.m., Hur­ley said. 


By MONICA YANT 

A 21-year old man is a sus­pect in a possible sexual assault that occurred Friday, March 2, in a Hesburgh Memorial Library restroom, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The suspect, and the 26-year old female victim, are not asso­ciated with Notre Dame. Both 
Observer announces new General Board 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 

The 1990-91 General Board for The Observer has been cho­sen by Editor-in-Chief-elect Ali­son Cocks. 
Kelley Tuthill, a sophomore at Notre Dame from Hingham, Mass., who is an American Studies (AMST) major with a concentration in Gender stud­ies, has been named News Edi­tor. Tuthill is currently an As­sistant News Editor for The. Observer. 
Greg Guffey, a junior at ND from New Castle, Ind. who is also an· AMST major, has been named Sports Editor. Guffey now serves as Assistant Sports Editor. 
Colleen Cronin, a junior at ND from Streamwood, Ill. and AMST major, has been named Accent Editor. Cronin currently serves as Assistant Accent Edi­tor. 
Michelle Dall, a junior at ND from Dubuque, Iowa who is a government major, will be the 
Velasquez elected to Board of Trustees 
Special to The Observer 

Arthur Velasquez. pres'i• dent of Azteca Foods, Inc;., Chicago, has been elected trustee of Notre Dame. 
A 1960 graduate in electri• cal engineering from Notre Dame, Velasquez received an new Viewpoint Editor. Dall now holds the position of News Edi­tor. 
Eric Bailey will be continuing his present position as Photog­raphy Editor, which he has held for the 1989-90 publishing year. Bailey is a sophomore at ND, from Crystal Lake, Ill., who is majoring in English. 
Corinne Pavlis, a junior at Saint Mary's from Arlington Heights, Ill., a political science and history major with a phi­losophy minor, will be Saint Mary's F.ditc~. This will be her first positi()fl at The Observer. 
Joe Zadrozny, an ND junior from Houston, Texas, who is a government and international relations/French major, has been named Production Man­ager. Zadrozny is now Assis­tant Production Manager. 
Bernard Brenninkmeyer, an ND junior and an economics major from Scarsdale, N.Y., will be continuing his present piJsition as Systems Manager, which he assumed in October, 1989. and is an economics ma­
jor. 
from 1974 through 1980, he was the first Hispanic elected to a statewide office. 
Velasquez was a founder of Azt~t<;a {:()l"n Products Corporation in Chicago in 1970. The company, one of the largest Midwest tortilla manufacturers, was ac~ quired by th(} Pillsbury Corn7 
Logan Center workers noticea that the man returned to the dance without the woman, and connected the man to the inci­dent after Security was alerted to the woman's presence in the bathroom, he said. 
Hurley said that there are "indications that there may have been a sexual assault." Results from the victim's exam­ination at St. Joseph Hospital will indicate whether a sexual assault did take place. 
Beth Bolger, an ND junior from Mechanicsburg, Pa., who is a marketing major, has been named Advertising Manager. Bolger now serves as Assistant Advertising Manager. 
Amy Eckert, an ND sopho­more from Mishawaka, Ind. who is majoring in government, will be the new Ad Design Man­ager. Eckert now works as an Ad Designer. 
Chris Anderson, an ND junior from Youngstown, Ohio who is an accounting major, will have the position of Controller. This is his first position at The Ob­server. 
Freshman Dan Shinnick, an economics major at Notre Dame from Excelsior, Minn., has been named Director of Observer Typesetting Service. This is Shinnick's first Observer post. -The above will join 1990-91 Editor-in-Chief-elect Alison Cocks, Managing Editor-elect John O'Brien, and Business Edi­tor-elect Kathleen 0' Connor to form the 1990-91 General Board. They will assume their duties immediately after spring break. 
bury in 1989. 
He is also a founder of CID Broadcasting, Inc., the first 24-hour radio broadcast business owned and oper­ated by Chicago Hispanic principals. 
A resident of Palos Hills. Ill., he is a director of sev· eral Chic~go area corpora· tions and is active in many professional,civic and chan, table organizations. 


12:00 noon-Room 131 Decio FacuHy Hall (co-sponsored with the Kellogg Institute) 
WEDNESDAY. MARCH 21 
Lecture 

PATRICIA M. MISCHE Co-founder of Global Education Associates 
"ECOLOGICAL SECURITY IN AN INTERDEPENDENT WORLD" 4:00p.m.-Room 121 Law 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL



111111~~;;o;~?l:~ 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOJR LIFE 
American Heart Association 

~fM CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 1990 
./.ATTENTION STUDENTS 

Last chance to sign up for "Christmas in April." Off Campus Sign-ups: 
LaFortune information desk. 

On Campus Sign-ups: 
Look for posters in your dorm or ask your Hall President. 
THIS PROJECT NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT!!! Questions??? Please call: 
Karen Croteau x1367 Lora Mangan x1314 Isabel Navarrete x1314 Bob Scheibel x2544 

DEADLINE MARCH 5!!! 
page 4 

Andy Rooney returns to '60 Minutes' after suspension 
NEW YORK lAP) -Andy 
Hooney returned Sunday to "60 
Minutes" after a three-week 
suspension, saying he was wor­
ried he'd be wrongly remem­
bered as a racist for remarks 
he says he didn't make. 
Hooney was suspended by CBS without pay Feb. 8 but re­instated three weeks later. 
Back at his usual show-end­ing slot, Hooney said it was demeaning to defend himself because he had a long history of supporting civil rights. He said he didn't know how to apologize to homosexuals for a comment he made last year that he hadn't realized would be offensive. 
Staying at home made him worry about his legacy, he said. 
''I'd be known for the rest of my life as a racist bigot and as someone who had made life a little more difficult for homo­sexuals. I felt terrible and I've learned a lot," the 71-year-old Hooney said. 
"What do I say to defend my­self? Do I say, 'I'm not a racist.' That sounds like saying, 'I'm not a crook.' 
The Observer 
The Observer/Kevin Weise

A mass with class 
University President Father Edward Malloy celebrates the Freshman class mass at Zahm Hall. 

"How do I apologize to ho­
mosexuals for hurting them 
with a remark I made that I 
didn't realize would hurt 
them?" 

Hooney began his commen­
tary by reciting a portion of a 
poem he remembered from high 
school in which the writer la­
ments the loss of his true love. 
Not working for three weeks 
since his suspension, he said, 
was like losing his true love. 
In his typical biting style, he reiterated that he has opinions that will continue to upset some people. "That's what I'm here for," he said, while also ques­tioning why he had become em­broiled in controversy. 
"In 1970, I wrote the show called 'Harry and Lena' for Harry Belafonte and Lena Horne. I like Lena better than Harry. Does that make me a feminist?" 
CBS News president David Burke suspended Hooney after The Advocate, a gay magazine, quoted him as saying that blacks had "watered down their genes" because the least intelligent among them had the most children. 

Friends 
continued from page 1 
"This finding underscores the critical nature of track place­ment in secondary schools. Tracking leads to within-track friendships, and if students are incorrectly placed, the influence of their friends may result in their making inappropriate educational choices," said Hal­linan. 
The study found no evidence of a gender effect on the peer influence process. Hallinan said, "The difference between the influences of females and males is negligible and different sex friends are about as influ­ential as same-sex friends." 
However. the research reveals interesting differences in influ­ence by race. "Counter to 

hundred in the student samples. 
"But once formed, cross-race 
friendships bear a strong re­
semblance to same-race friend­
ships in terms of the way influ­
ence occurs," Hallinan said. 
Hallinan and Williams' analy­
sis of the National Opinion He­
search Center data is guided by 
T. Parsons theory of influence, which was expressed in a 1963 paper in Public Opinion. 
"Since friends, and especially close friends are perceived as trustworthy, a student is likely to believe their advice about the advantages or disadvantages of college," said Hallinan. "And the influence is likely to persist over a student's .secondary school career if the friendship tie continues." 
The journal, Sociology of Ed­ucation, will publish the study by Hallinan and Williams in an upcoming issue. 
prevalent belief, white students have substantially higher col­lege expectations when they 

"'~t Spring Break 
have a black best friend, and 

~~~~~ IN
0
the P-ducational aspirations of a black student differs little by the race of his or her best 

""' CANCUN 
friend," said Williams. Cross-race best friendships 

$138 
are rare. There were only a few 

EE~OO 
7 NIGHT HOTEL PACKAGFS AVAILABLE FROM $129 
Cfi"CO"
+
American 

TOORS

Red Cross 

Mexico Tours since 1966­Member BBB/IAT A 602-271-0316 
onn nnn n")6 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-27222 



Panama 
continued from page 1 

jeering people who shouted "Go away beggars!" 
Noriega is awaiting trial on drug charges in Miami, where he was taken after gaining refuge in the Vatican Embassy in Panama City days after U.S. invasion. He later surrendered to U.S. authorities. 
Two officers who were allied with Noriega have taken refuge in the Peruvian Embassy, and demonstrators Saturday hurled firebombs at the embassy in protest. 
There were no injuries or se­rious damage in the incident. 
U.S. soldiers and Panamanian police restored order. 
The protest was organized by widows of Panamanian soldiers slain in an Oct. 3 attempt to topple Noriega. They arc an­gered that Gonzalo Gonzalez and Heraclides Sucre, who are accused of killing coup leader Maj. Moises Giroldi, have been given refuge. 
Protesters also said they were concerned that the Panamanian government guaranteed safe passage out of the country to Noriega's family and several other Noriega associates. 
Giroldi's widow Adela said she did not know who threw the firebombs. 
"It was peaceful and the inci­dents were provoked by un­known pnople," she said. 
After the mnbassy inddnnt. the protnsb~rs met with Hicardo Calderon, first vice presidPnt and ministnr of justice and se­curity. Arias Calderon guaran­teed the widows that the gov­ernment would not grant safe conduct to Gonzalez and Sucre. 

ftAmerican HeartV'Association 
'v\'E'RE FIGHTli\G Fm 'OJRUFE 


.---------­
~­

Monday, March 5, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Thousands re-enact historic 'Bloody Sunday' 
SELMA, Ala. (AP) -Four blacks not to exercise their "We have another bridge to thousand people set out Sunday right to vote. go across now, the racial on a 25th anniversary re-en­
"You cannot walk around bridge, the bridge at Selma actment of a historic voting­here with these unused bless­High," Jackson said. rights march to Montgomery, ings," Jackson said, adding At the high school, about 150 including a replay of a bloody that 35 percent of all blacks el­black students staged a sit-in eonfrontation with police on a igible to vote are unregistered. last month that led to a week­bridge. "God has given us all these long, systemwide halt of classes 
The group returning to the votes. When you drop them they while other blacks intermit­Edmund Pettus bridge was led become snakes and go to tently occupied City Hall. by such civil-rights figures as Washington and bite us." The protests stemmed from .Jesse Jackson and Coretta Two weeks after the 1965 the white-majority school Scott King. Among them were violence at the bridge stopped board's refusal to extend the son111 of the original marchers, the first march, King and other contract of the 75 percent including U.S. Rep. John Lewis, Jesse Jackson notables led a second march -black system's superintendent, Hosea Williams, Albert Turner Williams said as he crossed the authorized by a federal judge Norward Roussell, the system's and F.D. Reese. bridge. "We've come a long and protected by thousands of first black school chief. 
"We shed a little blood here way. But Lord knows we've got federal troops -all the way to Lewis, who was injured on that made a difference. People a much further way to go." Montgomery. The events, in­Bloody Sunday, said the clash are now registering to vote," The 50-mile march will con­cluding Ku Klux Klan violence on the bridge "created a sense said LPwis. D-Ga. tinue in segments each day against the march, galvanized of righteous indignation" 
Halfway up the bridge Sun­through the week before culmi­Congress to pass the 1965 Vot­across the country and resulted day, smoke was released to nating with a rally March 1 0 at ing Rights Act. in demonstrations in more than simulate police tear gas and the Alabama Capitol. After The law lowered voting barri­80 cities. marrhtHs two abreast re­crossing the bridge, most of the ers to blacks across the South "The movement created a treated. som£> falling to the crowd turned back to Selma, and eventually led to a sharp climate for President Johnson ground. leaving several hundred to con­increase in the number of both and for the Congress to say yes 
On March 7. 1965, on the day tinue a short distance toward black voters and black office­while many had a desire to say rnmembnn1d in civil rights an­Montgomery before stopping holders. In Selma alone, the no," said Lewis. nals as Bloody Sunday. police for the night, police said. number of black registered vot­Bloody Sunday helped make usPd billy dubs and tear gas to Jackson, speaking earlier ers has climbed from about 600 America "a little more caring, a turn bark hundreds of Sunday from th8 First Baptist in 1965 to 10,800 now. Three !itt!~ mo}e sharing," said rnarrht>rs on the bridge named Church pulpit to about 600 of the five members of the Dal­LeWis. for a Conft>derate genPral. people, said Martin Luther King las County Commission are The Johnson administration 
"Lord knows we'rp not wlwre did not die and Nelson Mandela black. Four of the nine mem­had focused itself on Vietnam WP ought to bP, but thank God did not languish in a South bers of the Selma City Council and the war on poverty until wp'm not whPre we used to be." African prison for 27 years for are black. Bloody Sunday. 
-··.-.~-~-·-------~·-·-·-·--..-.,-------·------~-------------,
I'SI" SEVEN TASTY WAYS ~ 
TO IMPROVEA 
_f;rCOLLEGE EDUCATION.-~ 
Mon. Thurs. 
r················-·····, r·····················-,
BEAT THE CLOCK THICK THURSDAY 
Present this coupon and receive Order 1 large original pizza with 1 medium pizza smothered In cheese 1 toppin~;~ between 4 and 7 PM and pepperoni. 
It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Eveiy
and the time on the clock is the 

day this week, you can get a special offer 
t

price that you pay. 
PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00 
from Domino's Pizza~ Whether it's free extra Offer valid Monday's onlyl crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's Offer valid Thursday's onlyl more reasons to make this the week for a
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
~~e

special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
Valld .. pattlelpatlng~only.NolvaliclfthiiiTyOihefDI*.Prlclnrn.y_.,-. 
C~ p.,-. aalet lA• ~~ a.ppi!Cabll O.U,.rytrwiUrniiH IOitf\Wit ..... not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, cus&om... pa., M~H w: .mer.~~pp~~. o.~~wrr -llmlleod 10 _._... .. 
dr•"""i! Quo dr.-s Catty ~U 11w\ S2000 Ow dt1...f11 atl noll ~nalll.lod lot 1M 
v.lod al ~IC~Ir!Q $101'•1 only Not -...lid ""lh any 01'-t oltorf Prlc*l m&y Vlry. 

driving. Our dr.-1 eany leM than 1.20.00. Ovr drlvert .,. nof petl&llzed klr '* 
~,,..,,, Cl1H9 Domono'1 P1u1. In< 111b/aTI you'll see why this is the week you've been <MIIver..-. CHNII Domlno'l Plu&, Inc 1/sblcrn 
waiting for. 

·------------·-·-------··----------------------· 
CALL US!
Tues. Fri.
271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave.
r················------, r··············--------,
TRIPLE TUESDAY 1 DOUBLE DINNER DEAL 

I I 

Present this COUf>?n and receive 2·12"Present this coupon and receive 1 original pizzas with 2 toppings and 
3 small original cheese pizzas 1 

2 COKES for $11.49.
for $6.99. Additional toppings available I 

at an additional charge. ~~~ Offer valid Friday's onlyl 
Offer valid Tuesday's onlyl • . I 
II.

OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 : · • ~ • DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
v.liciMpwUc:iplllnglbWOPWy.Hal'4ildwlthll'l'fCilhll'oJIIK ....... mayvtly. I . PIZZA ..-adM~--Ofllr.NGI...alldwlth~atheraftlr.l'nc._,_., c-o.-par-............. ~. DeM_.-, .... 
......,to........

~CM~:r,=-~~-=--=-...::=:= I DELIVERs· thln I2Q.OQ. Our~.,. nat,.,......a.
driving. CAw dr...... CMry ... 

..._.... CIIMII Domlno'II'W:a. Inc. 1~
~01Q11Domlno'•l"lua.lnc. 1/at:rJcm I • 

FREE. ••••••••••••••••••••••••
·----------------------· ... 

Weds. Sun. Sat. 
r·····················-, r·····················-, r·····················-,
WILD WEDNESDAY DOUBLE FEATURE PARTY SPECIAL 
Present thls coupcy1 and receive Present this ~and receive Present this~ and receive 2-14• 1 small original pepperoni pizza 2 small original chHH pizzasfor $2.99. Additional toppings available for $5.29. ~~$12.:9t~sand at an additional charge. 
Offer valid Sunday's onlyl Offer valid Saturday's onlyl Offer valid Wednesday's onlyl ~· 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 ~~ OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 

Engineering seminar aids students 
By OLIVIA PORTER 
News Writer 
The Society of Women Engineers sponsored an infor­mational workshop for stu­dents interested in a career in engineering. 
The Saturday seminar con­sisted of three sets of 45 minute seminars that presented speakers from major corpora­tions such as Bendix, Amoco, and Arthur Anderson. The sub­jects discussed ranged from ef­fective job hunting to careers in mechanical engineering. 
Although many of the partici­pants were engineering majors, the workshop provided the stu­dents with optional career paths. A representative from Arthur Anderson discussed the possibility of using an engineer­ing degree to enter the consult­ing field. 
The issue of personal sacri­fices was addressed by a repre­sentative from the Amoco Oil Company who discussed ways to combine a successful career and a family. 
Despite the fact that the event was sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers, Christina Mueller, assistant chairperson, said that the workshop "was not just for women, but for anyone who wanted an insight of the various engineering fields." 

I.Buy 4 * sessions at the-;gula7lI price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I I and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 anq 1 
L_9et 6!._REE ~ET THE~EA~ 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA HOURS 

IMP ACT TIGHTS IS COMING Td N.D. 

Friday, March 2nd Noon-4:00 Dooley Room, LaFortune Center 

FITNESS APPAREL AND SWlMWEAR FOR 
•AEROBICS"DANC/NG"RUNNING'SW/MMJNG 
LARGE SELECTION OF COLORFUL STYLES FROM CONSERVATIVE TO OUTRAGEOUS 
NOW BOOKING FITNESS FASHION PARTIES! CALL 291-654.3 FOR INFORMATION 

-~---------~---­
page 6 The Observer Monday, March 5, 1990 
ND announces research funds 
Special to The Observer high temperature superconduc­•$25,000 from the Lilly En­tors. dowment Inc. for research by 
•$100,638 from the U.S. Sonia Gernes, associate profes­
Notre Dame received Navy for research by Bruce sor of English, on The Eliza­$1,783,537 in grants during Bunker, associate professor of beth Papers.January for the support and physics, on studies of •$25,000 from Lilly Endow­research and various pro­semiconductor microstructure. ment Inc. for an open fellow­grams. Hesearch funds totaled •$85,260 from Lhe National ship for Thomas Whitman, $1,729,509, including: Science Foundation for studies professor of psychology. 
•$297,822 
from the National on hemolymph ice nucleator Institutes of Health for re­proteins by John Duman, asso­•$20,000 from the National search by George Craig, profHs­ciate dean of the college of Endowment for the Arts for a sor of biological sciHnces, on science and Francis Castellino, fellowship in creative writing in vector competencH for La dean of the College of Science fiction for William O'Rourke, Crosse virus in Aedes. and Kleliderer-Pezold associate professor in English. 

•$2 
B,:340 from the National professor of biochemistry. •$20,000 from Universal En­Institutes of Health for re­ergy Systems for research on search by Howard Saz, profes­•$52,666 from the National stable grasping by Michael sor of biological sciences, on Aeronautics and Space Admin­Stanisic, assistant professor of the metabolism of parasitical istration Lewis Research Center aerospace and mechanical worms. for research on noise radiation engineering. 

•$183.620 
from the National from blades by Hafiz Atassi, Institutes of Health for re­professor of aerospace and •$12,000 !'rom the National search by Francis Castellino, meehanical engineering and co­Science Foundation for a grant dean of the College of Science director of the Center for Ap­supplement for James Kolata, and Kleliderer-Pezold plied Mathematics. professor of physics. professor of biochemistry, on •$44,014 from the Indiana blood coagulation protein­University School of Medicine Awards for instructional metal ion-lipid interactions. for wound healing research by programming totaled $15,450 

•$174,440 
from the National Robert Kingsley, adjunct assis­from the Indiana Commission Science Foundation for fast tant professor of the South for Higher Education for a beam research by Stephen Lun­Bend Center for Medical Educa­chemistry teacher's workshop, deen, professor of physics. tion. administered by Karen Morris, 

•$135,24
7 from the National staff professional specialist in Institutes of Health for re­•$40,000 from the American chemistry, and Beverly Peste!, search by Anthony Serianni, as­Chemical Soeiety's Petroleum visiting associate professor of sociate professor of chemistry Research Fund for studies by ~hemistry and biochemistry. and biochemisty, on biologi­Michael Chetcuti, assistant pro­cally-important furanosyl fessor of chemistry, on the Awards for service programs rings. chemistry of unsaturated metal totalL'd $38,578, including: 

•$134,062 
from the National complexes. Institutes of Health for re­•$26,400 from the •$22,086 from the Indiana search by Malcolm Fraser, as­O'Shaughnessy Foundation for State Board of Health for ar­sociate professor of biological research by Thomas .Smith, bovirus surveillance and labo­sciences, on transposed muta­chairman and professor of ar­ratory service, administered by genesis. chitecture, on a new English Paul Grimstad, associate pro­

•$115,000 
from the Indiana translation of The Ten Books fessor of biological sciences. Corp. for Science and Technol­on Architecture. 


Japanese Prime Minister Tashiki Kaifu, right, has an informal 
ogy for research by Paul •$25,000 from the Lilly En­•$16,492 from private bene­
conversation with U.S. President George Bush Saturday in 
McGinn. assistant professor of dowment Inc. for an open fel­factors for programs of the In­
Rancho Mirage, Calif. as they begin their second day of bi-lateral 
materials science and engineer­lowship for Kathleen Biddick, stitute for Pastoral and Social 
talks. 

ing, on thick film processing of associate professor of history. Ministry. 
······················································~·····································
* *
* *
* * 
* * a * * Bill of University and Student Relations ~ * * * *
* *
* * * Article I : * ~ A student has a right to due process. This right entitles the accused to close the hearing over the objection of the charged student(s). At an * * be presumed innocent until proven guilty, to be informed of the open hearing the administration has the discretion to limit the * ! accusation before the disciplinary hearing, to an adequate time to number of persons in attendance in order to ensure an orderly !*prepare a defense, to a fair hearing, to present witnesses and evidence proceeding. In such instances, the administrative decision is final. * * on one's behalf, to confront witnesses and evidence against one's self, to ~* have the assistance of an advisor, to be judged by a fair and impartial Article IV * * board, to appeal a decision if a violation of due process has been The University has the responsibility to a public disclosure of all * ! alleged and/or if new substantive evidence has been introduced into a administrative hearings. The parties involved shall remain nameless. !* case, and to a written explanation of the holding of the hearing. * * Article V * ! Article II Students have the right not to be collectively punished. Collective !* A student has the right to be judged by one's peers. Students will punishment involves the imposition of a sanction to a general group of * : comprise at least one half of the panel at administrative hearings. students who may or may not have participated in the act in question. !* The following hall offenses will be handled by the hall judicial board This right does not bar the self-imposition of collective responsibility. * * unless the student chooses to rectify the situation with the rector * ! directly; violations of intra-dormitory rules, and first offenses of Article VI :* University conduct violations in which the community affected is Students have a right to free and uncensored press. This right shall be * ! more significantly the dorm than that of the University. applied to all officially sanctioned University publications. : 
* Article Ill Article VII * : A student has the right to an open hearing. Disciplinary hearings will A student has a right to carry on individual or organized activity !* be open unless the student in question requests a closed hearing, in which expresses any opinion regarding the University and/or society. * * which case the hearing shall be closed. In a hearing of two or more The execution of this right shall be carried on in a manner consistent * : students, any one student's request for a closed hearing shall take with educational pursuits, University conduct and the rights of others. !* precedence over the request of one or more of the other students for an * * open hearing. In cases where the need to protect privacy is in the Article VIII * ~ judgment of the parties to the charge, the administrative party may This document shall be amended only by a two-thirds vote in the : : Student Senate and Campus Life Council. * 
• * 
* * 
* * * ***Th~ Student Government Legal Department is proposing this document :* : to the Student Body Senate tonight at 6:00 p.m. in the Notre Dame room, ! ! second floor Lafortune. The issues in this document affect every Notre ! ! Dame student. All Senate meetings are open. *** ! ! TAKE A STAND ! 
* ~....·············~.¥.¥:¥t,.....¥t!f?f-.1f;lft1f!f.¥.-¥:¥Jf*-.¥.1f¥Jf11-!l-.¥.1f:.1f1f11!1.¥¥..1f¥:JJ-•.¥.......................1f~~··¥.1flf~:¥-.¥.¥."t* 
Monday, March 5, 1990 The Observer page 7 

AP Photo
Last-minute campaigning 

Militants from the pro-democracy Russian People's Front hand out literature for their candidates Saturday on the eve of the Russian federation's first multicandidate parliamentary and local elections. 
Japanese/U.S. talks end friendly 
TOKYO (AP) Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu left be­hind friendly talks with President Bush and returned home Sunday to political reali­ties likely to dampen any post­summit euphoria. 
Japanese officials accompa­nying Kaifu said the summit in Palm Springs, Calif. could for­tify Kaifu's position as he tries to carry out pledges of eco­nomic reform. 
After his warm welcome in California, however, Kaifu faces a decidedly cooler reac­tion in Tokyo, where there is opposition to trade-related economic reform both in his Liberal Democratic Party and in the opposition-controlled upper house of Parliament. 
The summit, hastily arranged only a week in advance, had been widely expected to put Kaifu in the unenviable position of having to fend off criticism that Japan is dragging its feet in cutting its $49 billion trade surplus with the United States. 
But during their talks Friday and Saturday, Kaifu and Bush avoided detailed discussion of specific trade topics under ne­gotiation. 
Kaifu responded to Bush's request for substantive progress on both the Structural Impediments Initiative -talks aimed at attacking the trade imbalance indirectly through economic reform --and in other disputed trade areas with a pledge to "Do my best." 
"I told the president I am asking for cooperation and un­derstanding from my people, from businesses," and from in­volved government agencies, Kaifu told reporters in the United States. 
Among all three groups, Kaifu faces stubborn resistance to change and a tradition of cautious, slow decision-making that will hinder efforts to meet deadlines for progress on trade issues. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 

Assistant Production Managers 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
statement to Joe Zadrozny by 5 p.m. Friday, March 9. For further information, contact Joe Zadrozny at 239-7471. at 283-3128. 
CHEER CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME 
Cheerleacling Tryouts 
March 23rd and 24th 
7:oopm in the Basketball Arena SHOW YOUR SPIRIT! 

Efforts to arrest Philippine official result in 14 deaths 
Proposals include streamlin­ing Japan's byzantine distribu­tion system with its many mid­dlemen, hastening the opening of price-competitive large stores, and strictly enforcing anti-monopoly laws. 
Land-use reforms aimed at increasing space for much­needed housing and at cutting exorbitant land prices could eventually hit the real estate values underpinning much of Japan's enormous financial wealth. 
"The road is not smooth. We are dealing with things both societies have tried to rectify for decades," acknowledged Yukio Okamoto, director of the First North American Division of the Foreign Ministry. 
Many Japanese government and business leaders said Sunday they were happy with the results of the summit, and vowed to work hard to settle economic conflicts with the United States. 

MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Officials tried Sunday to arrest a governor indicted in a recent coup attempt, but his support­ers defended him in clashes that left at least 14 people dead, including a general, au­thorities said. 
The trouble began early Sunday when officials sent to arrest Gov. Rodolfo Aguinaldo in the city of Tuguegarao were taken hostage in a hotel. Later, government forces stormed the hotel, leading to a series of clashes later in the day in the city. At least 10 people were re­ported wounded. 
Aguinaldo, a former lieu­tenant colonel, escaped, but of­ficials said Sunday about 200 of his followers had surren­dered. 
The military chief of staff, Gen. Renato de Villa, placed the armed forces on nationwide alert and ordered the military to capture Aguinaldo "at all costs." 
Scattered shooting was still reported /late Sunday in Tuguegarao, capital of Cagayan province 250 miles north of Manila. 
Col. Emiliano Templo told re­porters Aguinaldo's followers were believed to be holding some people hostage in homes near the hotel. 
However, Acting Gov. Melvin Vargas said 10 more Aguinaldo followers surrendered early Monday and released about 30 hostages they were holding at a pawn shop. It was unclear if other hostages were still being held. 
Troops blocked a major bridge south of Tuguegarao, stranding thousands of travel­ers. Templo said Aguinaldo's followers included his private army, government militiamen and army Scout Rangers. 
Marines were flown from Manila on Sunday to reinforce security in Tuguegarao, a city of more than 80,000 people. Philippine Airlines canceled flights to the city and schools were ordered closed Monday. 
In Manila, a homemade bomb exploded late ~unday in the 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 

(Jane Special) Student Haircuts 
$8.00 By Jane Only 
I'm only 5 min. from campus 
The Castle 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Convenient Parking 
Z7Z·8471 
Makati district, but no injuries 
were reported and it was ap­
parently unrelated to the fight­
ing. 
Local Governments Secretary 

Luis Santos and Brig. Gen. 
Oscar Florendo had gone to 
Tuguegarao to serve Aguinaldo 
with the arrest warrant. 
Before dawn, Aguinaldo's supporters surrounded the six­story Delfino Hotel and took Florendo, chief of the military's civil relations service, and three aides prisoner and trapped Santos and others on the sec­ond floor. 
About 3 p.m., government forces launched an attack. Florendo, 51, was wounded during the rescue and was dead on arrival at a city hospital, said defense spokeswoman Lourdes Ilustre. 
Santos, two mayors, two colonels and a navy commodore were rescued unharmed, offi­cials said. 
Casualty figures were incom­plete, but regional commander Col. Miguel Fontanilla said at least 14 people died. 
They included 10 killed during a clash at a checkpoint near a bridge, three in fighting near a gasoline station and Florendo at the hotel, he said. 
President Corazon Aquino said Florendo "was killed by one of the followers of sus­pended Gov. Rodolfo Aguinaldo . . . . The act of cowardice and treachery of Aguinaldo's fol­lowers will not go unpunished. 
"I call on all our people to continue to reject violence and uphold our constitutional democracy and the processes of law in a peaceful manner." 
In a radio interview at the hotel earlier Sunday, Aguinaldo said he was a "victim of injus­tice .... I don't mind dying as a villain." He threatened to take 
his followers into the moun­tains and become "a rebel." 
Aguinaldo was suspended in January as governor of Cagayan province for allegedly supporting the Dec. 1-9 mili­tary rebellion and had been holed up in his hometown of Gattaran, 45 miles north of Tuguegarao. 
Aquinaldo told a Manila radio station on Dec. 1 that he was sending tanks and artillery to the city to support mutineers trying to oust Mrs. Aquino. 
The governor was indicted· along with Sen. Juan Ponce Enrile and five others in con­nection with the coup attempt, the sixth and bloodiest attempt to topple Mrs. Aquino since she took power in 1986. 

OURS: Mon. -Fri. 8:00 -5:30 Sat. 8:00-3:00 
APLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
2112 South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46630 
272-6722 '' 
next to Coach's ' 
Summer jobs 

Over 50,000 summer job openings at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Businesses. CrUise Lines. Ranches. and more in the U.S.. Canada. 
Australia. and 20 other countries. Complete directory only $19.95. Don't wait till after finals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039 Colorado Springs, CO 80937 . 

page 8 The Observer 
·t..·, * 

AP Photo
Final touchdown 

One of Ulan Bator citizens, who has been watching removal of the statue of former Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin from its pedestal, touches Stalin's head in front of the Mongolian National Diet Library on Feb. 22. 
Residents protest Daley's airport 
CHICAGO (AP) -Windows of 
bungalows lining the streets of 
the city's industrial Southeast 
Side are starting to sport new 
signs -an airplane stamped 
with a red circle and a slash. 
The message: No airport. 
Mayor Richard Daley's plan 
to build a third metropolitan 
airport near the Indiana line 
has sparked heated debate 
among politicians in two states 
and across the neighborhoods 
that would be bulldozed and 
replaced with runways. 
Daley announced the $4.9 bil­
lion project two weeks ago, 
saying it represents jobs and an 
investment that would help re­
vitalize the area, site of shut­
tered steel mills and toxic 
dumps. 
But Indiana officials are fighting for a share of any new airport that might be built to alleviate congestion at Chicago's O'Hare International, the world's busiest. A bi-state committee already had been considering four possible sites. none in Chicago. 
And even in Hegewisch, a mixed industrial and residential neighborhood Daley's Lake Calumet Airport would dis­place, there is no consensus. 
"Why should we have to leave? Why should somebody tell us where to live?" home­owner Janet Chibicki said last week. 
But contractor James Amen­dola, a resident for 26 years, says there are any number of reasons to bulldoze Hegewisch for an airport. 
"I think it'd be really good for the area considering we got dumps on one side killing us. The water's contaminated. What have we got left? All's we 
#\rp~~~©tmiUlQ)rtll~ ~~~rtll~ <m©©~[p)~r~rdl ~©r ~ ~~(Q) Urtll~~~r~~~W ~r~~~m.mrru rorar~[(\l~ .m~~©rtll ~~<marrp~r~©rtll 
*applications available from the secretary's office on 2nd floor of LaFortune 

*DEADLINE: March 9,1990 at 4pm 
GOOD LUCK! 

got left is people who got 
pride," he said. 

On one street. a block of 
white frame houses dead-ends 
with a view of a flaming 
smokestack at the LTV Steel 
yard. At the William W. Powers 
State Fish and Wildlife Area, 
picnic tables overlook oil tanks 
on the opposite shore of Wolf 
Lake. 

Under the mayor's proposal, 
5,510 to 9,360 homes would be 
replaced by runways in 
Chicago's Hegewisch and South 
Deering neighborhoods and in 
suburban Burnham and 
Calumet City. 

"It took everything we have to get this house, now they're going to take it away from us," said Mrs. Chibicki. She and her husband, Gary, saved 10 years before buying it for $64,000 in 1988, and she does not think they'll get a fair price for it. 
"I don't think anybody, even the powerful mayor of the city of Chicago, has the right to lit­erally destroy neighborhoods, when you have options 20 miles south or east of us," said Calumet City Mayor Robert Ste­faniak. 
No option has won federal support and even if Lake Calumet Airport i'S built, it would not open for about 20 years. 
The airport would cover 9,400 acres. compared with O'Hare's 7,700 acres. The city intends to pay for it with bonds, federal grants and ei­ther a $2.25 tax on travelers at O'Hare and Midway Airport on the Southwest Side, or state and local taxes. 
The city estimates the airport would create more than 200,000 permanent jobs and each year would inject $13.7 billion into the regional econ­omy. 
The city has pledged to reim­burse homeowners at fair­market value and to pay moving expenses and a relocation allowance, said Marj Halperin, Daley's deputy press secretary. 
Daley's announcement also spawned a political fight, be­cause it pre-empts the Illinois­Indiana committee that already had chosen four finalist airport sites, two in Indiana and two south of Chicago. 
Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., has enlisted the aid of fellow Republicans, including Senate 
Minority Leader Bob Dole, to fight Daley's plan. 
"The mayor's plan is clearly unfair to Indiana, which has played by the rules from the beginning in the selection pro­cess for that new airport," Coats said. 
He is trying to block $5.2 million the city requested from the Federal Aviation Adminis­tration to produce a master plan for the airport. 
Rep. Pete Visclosky, D-Ind., has accused U.S. Transporta­tion Secretary Samuel Skinner, former chairman of the Re­gional Transportation Author­ity of Northern Illinois, of fa­voring the city. 
"All I've agreed to do is not eliminate any choices," Skinner said last week after meeting with Coats and Dole. 
GOLF SALE 
AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
20o/oOFF SELECT PRODUCTS 
PLUS 

SHOW YOUR STUDENT OR STAFF ID AND TAKE ANOTHER 10o/o OFF 
(SHOP OPEN MON-FRI 7:30AM-1:OOPM""1 
~ SALE GOOD THROUGH APRIL 16 ~ 
Monday, March 5, 1990 

Children barred from school because of custody dispute 
EVANSVILLE. Ind. (AP) -A tangle of residency and child custody laws keeps 11-year-old Nakiatra Collier and her 16­year-old brother, Antoine, at home watching television in­stead of going to school. 
The sister and brother from Detroit were barred from at­tending school in Evansville for the second semester on Jan. 2 when custody or guardianship was not granted to their aunt, Linda Collier. 
Nakiatra spent the fall semester at Thompkins School and Antoine attended Central High School 
Nakiatra and Antoine say they have been living in Evansville with Collier since August because their mother, who lives in Detroit, is unable to care for them. 
"Once the court made its de­cision (not to grant custody), .we were not able to keep the children in school," said Jim Trader, supervisor of student services for the Evansville­Vanderburgh School Corp. "If there is not a guardian or no one has legal custody of them, then we have no one to corre­spond with." 
Evansville school officials said the residency requirements are designed to keep students from switching to school dis­tricts where they don't have le­gal guardians. 
Collier said she does not want to send Nakiatra and Antoine back to Detroit because they were not cared for properly and were not attending school because of conditions in the Detroit school system. She said she is a sister to the children's mother, Violet Collier, who is a single parent. Attempts to con­tact Violet Collier wnre unsuc­cessful. 
"These !Gas are confused and 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For information, please contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-5303. To apply for the position, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 7. 
PRESEASON 
seared. They are here, and they are going to stay here," Collier told The Evansville Courier in a copyright story in Sunday's edi­tions. 
"At one time they thought they were going to be sent back to Detroit, and they eried like babies. This whole process is confusing to them," she said. 
It is confusing to adults, as well. Trader said that if stu­dents could enroll without guardians, the system would be flooded with people from other districts. 
"It is a very common prob­lem, and we have to keep stu­dents in the district where their guardian lives," Trader said. "Technically, the children are still Michigan residents, be­cause they have legal parents in that state." 
But Indiana Department of Education officials disagree with Trader's decision. State officials say Indiana's compul­sory attendance law requires students under age 18 who have been in the state for more than 30 days to attend school. It is a Class B misdemeanor to keep them out. 
"They should be in school," said Risa Regnier, an attorney for the state. "(If) it appears that a relative is providing a home for them, and is caring for them, then they are entitled to go to school." 
Vanderburgh County Juvenile Court Judge Robert Lensing, who has handled the case, said he has no jurisdiction to order the children back to Michigan. 
"We do not have the respon­sibility to take children from other counties," Lensing said. "They are supposed to go back to their mother or father. Many times children are sent here be­cause the parent doesn't want to be bothered." 



Claybrook is banking on the story of Charles Keating's Lin­coln Savings and Loan to per­suade voters to demand changes in the way congres­sional elections are financed. 
Public Citizen, the organiza­tion Claybrook leads, is among a number of self-styled public interest groups pushing Congress to accept public fi­nancing of the campaigns, with spending limits and significant restrictions on political action committee donations. 
A new poll conducted for Pub­lic Citizen shows a clear major­ity of the public, 58 percent, supports the concept of public financing -the highest level since just after the Watergate scandal. 
But the poll also found most voters know very little about the mechanics of public financ­ing and are skeptical that any financing system would remove the influence of political action committees formed by special 

That is where Claybrook hopes the story of Keating and the widespread problems in the savings and loan industry will help. 
The collapse of Keating's Lin­coln Savings and Loan will cost taxpayers $2 billion. And Clay­brook estimates that the $150 billion federal bailout of the S&L industry overall is costing each taxpayer about $1,000. 
The poll found overwhelming anger among voters who were told about five senators who in­tervened on Keating's behalf with federal regulators who were considering seizing Lin­coln because of questionable lending and investments. 
Keating and associates previ­ously had donated $600,000 to the campaigns of causes of the five senators. 
That anger, according to the pollsters, could provide Public Citizen and its allies with the opening they have always needed to persuade the public system should be overhauled. 
"The scandals surrounding the savings and loan industry, in particular, have created a political moment where voters are able to make the concep­tual link between campaign money and their own interests and quality of representation," the analysis from the pollsters said. 
The pollsters cautioned, how­ever, that while people are un­happy with the current cam-. paign finance system and in­creasingly skeptical of Congress, they will be difficult to mobilize. 
"The public, though increas­ingly unhappy with the current system, examines the issue through its larger political lenses, which do not focus easily on campaign finance as a political issue," the analysis said. 
Public Citizen and its allies 

Debt excesses unravel, 
Henry Kaufman is an old-fashioned economist, but suddenly that begins to sound like a compliment. For 26 years as a leading official at Salomon Broth­ers, he warned with ever-increasing fer­vor against the national tendency to put everything on the cuff -even as Wall Street itself became a principal ex­ploiter of the pervasive mania for debt. 
Now, on his own for the past two years as head of the New York consult­ing and money-management firm that bears his name, Kaufman has what might seem the satisfaction of watching many deserving firms get their comeup­pance. Not only has the junk-bond em­pire of Drexel Burnham Lambert col­lapsed, but others such as Integrated Resources, Bank of New England, Cam­peau and countless S&Ls also have lost prominence. 
But Kaufman, characteristically, is neither gloating nor melodramatic. He is convinced that what he calls "the fi­nancial recklessness of the past decade" will result in tighter rules and dimin­ished influence for once-arrogant Wall Street firms, and he fears that this will lead to a less efficient allocation of capital generally. 
But he is not joining the frightening chorus that says these unraveling fi-

Louis Rukeyser 
Tribune Media Services 
nancial excesses must inevitably lead to crash and depression for the American economy. 
When I asked him directly whether such a dire outcome was now unavoid­able, Kaufman gave a surprisingly up­beat response. He said he believed the odds were against either a crash or de­pression, or even decade-long "malaise," and that the 1990s could turn out reasonably well for the Ameri­can economy. But there would be some painful transitions along the way. 
"The problem in the financial system really is one of fragility," he told me, "and the difficulty is to determine what that fragility is. We have a series of fi­nancial institutions, particularly thrift institutions, that are in difficulty. That may be a cost of $300 billion to the American public. 
"We have other financial institutions 
significantly leveraged, with a consider­able amount of commercial properties which are not what they used to be. And 
economic progress to follow 
of course we have corporations very heavily indebted. Now, put that all to­gether, there is a serious restraint on the American economy that just can't be qualified." 
Despite such limits, Kaufman believes this "restraint" should stop well short of catastrophe. "It, however, will take considerable time to undo what was done over a decade or two," he said. "And this is one of the great difficulties here, to be able to absorb this pain. I suspect that it won't lead to a crash or a depression -that our government, the Federal Reserve, is going to be competent enough to put out the fires wherever they may be. 
"But nevertheless this is going to make some of our institutions invalid; they're going to be convalescent rather than being vibrant as lenders, and therefore will be an impediment to the economy and to our international com­petitive position:" 
In general, then, this is not the best outlook for a nation that long believed it could borrow trouble without ever paying the price. Yet, when I specifically asked Kaufman whether he foresaw, like Jimmy Carter, a decade of 
~ "' " ,, • v .. • < ..,. t : . 
focus. Congressional leaders have promised to bring campaign fi­nance legislation to the floor this spring. But no bipartisan agreement is in sight and both Democrats and Republicans bickering among themselves. Lobbyists for Public Citizen, Common Cause and other groups are increasingly skepti­cal that their proposals will be enacted. 
The groups are hoping that a groundswell of public support will improve their chances, and the Public Citizen poll contained evidence to convince them that a well orchestrated campaign could attract supporters. 
Most encouraging to the groups was poll data showing that 58 pl'\rcent of respondents favor the concept of public fi­nancing, the highest level of support since immediately after the Watergate scandal. 
Surplus in Social Security forces budget changes 
WASHINGTON (AP) Congress and the White House are all but certain to make changes this year in the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduc­tion law, which has dominated debate over the federal budget since its enactment in 1985. 
If the revisions are major, it would be the second time in its short life that the legislation ­designed to gradually force a balanced budget -has been substantially altered. 
The changes will at the very least be forced by an issue that lawmakers have been fixated on in recent weeks: the gigantic surpluses accumulated each year by the Social Security trust fund. 
But with Gramm-Rudman's declining annual deficit targets scheduled to expire in fiscal 1993, when the budget is sup­posed to be balanced, there are other cross-currents as well. 
"malaise" for the American economy, he replied with a flat "no," adding: 
"I think the 1990s could be a reason­able one for the United States. The United States is moving from a position of superpower to a position of major power, where it's first among the major powers -partly because there is a de­militarization going on in the world. And as a result of that, we have the op­portunity to re-gear our fiscal policy very dramatically. 
"We can now pay attention a lot more to our infrastructure and to our domes­tic needs. And it was that buildup in military expenditures in the 1980s that contributed to some of the excesses in the economy. So, from my perspective, we are in the stage of undoing excesses -and we're beginning to be on the road back." 
A period of overdue transition, fol­lowed by renewed forward progress. This from the man often dubbed the Cassandra of Wall Street, " Dr. Doom." Henry Kaufman, who so unfashionably decried the explosive buildup of debt that was enriching so many of his Wall Street (and Main Street) colleagues, could be right twice. 
page 9 

RIO DE EJ8.()f Brazil ·(AP).• ••.•••. ·· The government on Friday ordered a. 25 percent mcrease mfuel prices. which have.nearly tripled since the first of the year. 
The price of gas<>line rose ftom $2.15 a gallon to $2.93 a gallon. ihe prices for diesel fuel, kerosene, alcohol 
t{u,el and cooking g.as also rose one-fourth. The government subsidizes alcohol to make it 25 percent cheaper than gasoline, although it costs twice as much as gasoline to produce. About one-third of Brazil's 
13.5 million vehicles run on alcohol made from domesti­cally grown sugar cane. 
The increase was the sixth since January, and happened 15 da.ys after a 48 percent price hike. Fuel prices have risen 281 percent this year. 
Conservatives want to extend the deficit targets into later years to hold down spending for domestic programs. Liber­als want to eliminate the tar­gets soon so that social spend­ing can expand, and they want to have the Pentagon budget and taxes play a greater role in cutting the deficit. 
"There are about 100 ideas in this place about how the pro­cess will be changed," says Se­nate Budget Committee Chair­man James Sasser, D-Tenn. 
The driving force for the changes is the ever-growing Social Security surplus, ex­pected to be $7 4 billion next year alone. 
Critics -and it's become hard to find members of Congress not sharply critical ­say this surplus makes the overall federal deficit appear smaller than it actually is. 

~-------~-~c--------~

LETTERS 

Sexist attitudes perpetuate destructive responses to date rape at ND 
Dear Editor: 
just as she did her drinks. But tiona) sexist double standard 
No one wants to believe that only a date rapist would con­that women should stay pure at date rapists Iurk within the sciously admit to himself that a all costs and never admit their "Notre Dame family." No fe­drunk woman deserves to be sexuality at all, while sexually male wants to have to face that raped. experienced men acquire a she has any reason to fear her Another deterrent to report­"studly" reputation. We cannot male classmates in an already ing rape does have much to do fail to notice that no male strained atmosphere of with the fact that the burden of equivalent exists for the term male/female relations at Notre proof is on the victim. I cannot "slut." Dame. Fortunately, we can re­agree that "the burden of proof In any case, every date rapist member that the overwhelming sor, his male as well as female ent, he rapes her when he should be on the accused rapist knows his behavior is unac­majority of students here are cohorts condone his behavior presses onward. Whether or to establish innocence." I ap­ceptable. His selfishness and great people. when they do not condemn it. not intercourse occurs becomes preciate the American ideal utter lack of compassion needs 
Building on Kristin Komy­Student Affairs or the a technicality when she still that we are all innocent until to be overridden by collective atte's purpose to increase Counseling Center needs to feels just as violated in the proven otherwise. A better so­condemnation both by society awareness of destructive atti­publicize how a victimized morning as the cloudy frag­lution to ameliorate her burden and especially by his peers, tudes suppressing reports of woman or the rapists' section ments of his degrading objecti­would be a professionally dis­where his interaction with soei­datn rape, a closer look into the mates ought to go about fication of her materialize in creet handling of her case by ety begins. Notre Dame does masons for those attitudes may reporting such a personal vio­her mind. The prevalent atti­sensitive and sympathetic peo­display better moral behavior help to extinguish them. The lation. Knowing that the situa­tude that it is her fault for her ple, not interrogators. than most campuses. but we all date rapist himself doesn't pre­tion will be handled profession­irresponsible drinking not only The problem that a "women can fight datfl rape by working sent himself as so monstrous ally and discreetly would keeps her from reporting it, but who was raped is interrogated to dissolve the sexist notions that we all can easily recognize greatly encourage the victim or also degrades her self-esteem as the 'guilty' one" exists not that help perpetuate it. 
Tammy Trautner

him as one who gets some kind anyone who knows about his enough for her to tell herself because she has the burden of 
Howard Hall

of power kick out of violating perversion to come forward. that she may have brought it on proof but because of a tradi-
Feb. 27. 1990

women. lie may present such Helated to Komyatte's an extraordinary superficial accurate observation that Involvement as Assistant Treasurer provides rewar~~ 
soeial exterior that his problem "society sends the message that Dear Editor: Each March, two individuals tlw dubs and organtzattonsis overlooked and suppressed it must be the woman's fault," Each year we see and hear arn ehosnn to snrvP as Assis-adhnrP to tlw spnnding guidP­by people who not wrongly ap­a prevalent reason date rape about the many activities and tant StudPnt Body TreasurPrs. lines approvNI by tlw sPtHttP. preciate his daily social behav­goes unreported here is services offered by student-run The role of tlw assistant is to AftPr sPrving this past yPar as ior. Even some of those who because of the abuse of alcohol campus organizations. llow-work closely with the Trnasun~r otw of tlw Assistant TrPasur­may glimpse his other prob­P.nmeshed in Notre Dame's ever. most people don't realize to disperse and monitor thnsP Prs. I would I'IH'ouragP anyonl' lematic side easily manage to social life. We all know that that our $55.00 student activity funds. Throughout tlwir junior who is intPrPstPd to apply for push it aside in favor of his alcohol impairs judgment, but fee provides the necessary year. both assistants will bf'-thn position. This position dP­positive aspects. it slights men in general to say funding for various groups and come familiar with the opnra-mands a commitnwnt of both 
Since we live in such close they lose control of their own the activities that they sponsor. tion of the Studnnt Body Trea-time and pf'f'ort. but tlw re­quarters and must interact sexuality so that they in­Over $400.000 is collected each surer's office. Thn following wards an• worth it. Applica­
constantly, this social policy voluntarily rape while under the year. March, one of the assistants tions for Assistant Studtlnt toward others of overlooking influence. 
The Student Body Treasurer is will assum1~ the responsibilities Body Treasurer may be ob-flaws and focusing on attrac­Drunk women do not escape 
responsible for budgeting this of Student Body Trnasurer. tained in thf' Trnasurer's office tive characteristics is a benefi­responsibility for their actions sum to the organizations whieh Thus, the person chosPn will on tlw second lloor of La.For­cial one. But when he violates a either. but if she is too intoxi­rely on it for their support. have the opportunity to serve tune between I:00 and 5:00 fellow human being and then cated to consent, or he knows These inelude student govern-for two years and with two dif-p.m. Tlw applications must bt~ brags about that to build his that no such sexual expression ment. Student Union Board, ferent student government returned by WPdnnsday. March 
masculinity as a sexual aggres-would occur if she were coher-
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 

Hall Presidents' Council. and administrations. 9 at 5:00 p.m. Thn position of almost 150 dubs and organiza-The Student Body Treasurer Assistant Student Body pro-lions. Once this sum has been also has the opportunity to vides a learning ~~xp1~rinnen of a budgeted, the Student Body serve as a member of the Stu-lifntimn. Treasurer's office is responsi-dent Senate and as Chairman of ble for maintaining accurate the Senate Budget and Finance records of all finances and for Committee. This means that the James M. Hanley dispersing the allocated funds Treasurer ensures that the lis­Assistant Student llody to the organizations mentioned cal policies established by thn Treasurer 

above. senate are followed 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
Accent

Monday, March 5, 1990 
Valerie's back 
Harper on the air again in new CBS comedy 
great grandmother was Jewish. "Sweet Jesus, I'm Jewish," she Joe 
says. "I'm going to miss Easter." The city manager Roger
Bucolo 
(Todd Sussman) explains that being Jewish is "carried

To Be 
through the mother like a reli­gious virus." Later, as Liz

Continued 
shuffies the staff out of her of­fice, Rogers tells Gloria, "Get 

Valerie Harper isn't one to used to this, Gloria. It's the his­stay off television for long pe­tory of our people. Always be­riods of time. She may no ing shoved from one place to longer be a member of the another." family-"The Hogan Family," Victor (James Lorinz,) the se­that is. but now she's part of curity guard, is an unusual the "City." type. Of Victor, Liz tells a friend, 
CBS airs "City" at 8:30 p.m. "Victor's... Victor's... We don't on Mondays. Valerie Harper give him a gun." When he's told stars as Liz Gianni, a high-en­to find out who's stealing all the ergy city manager. Her daugh­office's Liquid Paper, Victor ter Penny (LuAnne Ponce) re­suggests to Liz that Canadians cently moved back in with Liz are using the liquid to paint so unbalanced budgets and themselves so they blend in political egos often take a back with the snow as they cross the seat to family matters. border and sneak into America. 
Of course, Harper would Patiently, Liz tells Victor to never be involved with anything look at the size of the brush and that didn't reek of quality. The the bottle. She asks him how garbage collectors in her city many bottles he thinks it would probably wear white gloves and take to paint a single person give tours while on the job. white. Victor leaves the room, With the current TV trend defeated. Later, at the end of lending toward copycat sitcoms, the episode, Victor enters Liz's it's nice to see a show with office-all white-and provides genuinely funny lines and Liz with the answer to her unique characters. rhetorical question. 
In one episode, Liz is elated to This "City" does need some discoVPr Penny has a new job. improvements. For example, if 
-
When Gianni arrives at her of­the city's sewers are as filthy as fice later that same day, she some of the show's language, learns that Penny's job consists even the rats would find them of working in the mailroom at unsuitable for residency. The Liz's office. The twist comes as show it far too witty to use 
Liz discovers the previous some of the tasteless words it mailperson was fired by a man does. They will surely catch who had no authority to do so. viewers off guard. Thus. Liz must fire Penny to re­The show itself is in an inter­
store the real mailman to his esting predicament. "City" airs job. opposite Harper's old show, 
In one funnv scene before Liz "The Hogan Family" (previously fin~s Penny, thP daughter ap­titled "Valerie".) Also, it pits proaches her mother to express real-life brother and sister her love for the job. Penny against one another. Danny makes a speech about how Ponce plays Harper's son on she's now found direction in her "The Hogan Family" and Lu life and how, even though she's Anne Ponce plays Harper's made mistakes delivering the daughter in "City." mail. she's "going to stick it out." Liz replies. "Well there's a CBS has a great addition to its problem with that. honey. be­slew of Monday night comedies. cause I have to fire you." Harper is superb in her role, 
I·
Another plotline centers on and the comedy on the show is the city's social coordinator funny. If the language problem Gloria (Mary Jo Keenan) who is handled, people will sends away for her family tree. definitely want to move to this She discovers her great great "City." 
... 

BOB THOMAS the first comedy hit of the travel to the South Sea island of Associated Press Writer 1990s. Tom Hanks is bigger Waponi Woo and act as a than ever. If you liked Meg Ryan human sacrifice to appease the 
Today's filmmakers are in "When Harry Met Sally ...," raging volcano. Bridges then astonished to learn that film you'll like her three times as hopes to gain a rare mineral for classics such as "Citizen Kane," much in this one; she plays his superconductor business. "Casablanca" and "High Noon" three roles. The latter-day Jack Lemmon were shot almost entirely on The brain behind the film is as portrayer of society's victim, studio stages and backlots. John Patrick Shanley, whose Hanks is perfect for the role. Throughout the 1930s and '40s, "Moonstruck" proved he knew Along the way he meets three -­a movie made on location was a how to write credible women: a downtrodden fellow rarity, as films created a characters in hilarious worker, the spaced-out dream-like world that en­situations. This time he writes daughter of Bridges and her thralled entertainment-starved and directs. assuring that his half-sister, who accompanies audiences. vision reaches the screen intact. Hanks on his voyage. All are 
The physical vision has been the incredibly inventive Meg 
One of the many charms of realized by production designer Ryan. the strangely titled "Joe Versus Bo Welch, starting with the zig­"Joe Versus the Volcano" was the Volcano" is its other­zag pathway along which produced by Teri Schwartz, worldliness, the result of being Hanks and his fellow workers with the team of Steven filmed mostly within the slouch to their abominable jobs Spielberg, Kathleen Kennedy confines of a studio. There are in a ph!lrmaceutical supply and Frank Marshall as a few cityscapes. but the ocean company ("home of the rectal executive producers. Happily, scenes were shot on a studio probe".. ) this is one Amblin tank, and the South Sea island Hanks leaves his numbing job Entertainment production that is gloriously phony. You keep after being told by Dr. Robert has wit as well as special expecting Dorothy Lamour to Stack that he has a fatal effects. appear in a sarong. disease. He is enlisted by The film opens nation-wide 
. "Joe Versus the Volcano" is industrialist Lloyd Bridges to this Friday. 



-----------------·-~~~~ _...,..-..-r-"1""-, -.-,-r ~~
r== 
a e 12 The Observer 
Gathers dies after collapsing at game 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Hank Gathers, one of only two Divi­sion I players to lead the nation in scoring and rebounding in the same season, died Sunday night after collapsing during Loyola Marymount's West Coast Conference tournament game against Portland. He was 23. 
Gathers was pronounced dead at Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital, where he was taken after collapsing with 13:34 left in the first half of the game. He died at 6:55 p.m. PST, a school spokesman said. 
As a junior last season, Gath­ers averaged 32.7 points and 
13.7 rebounds, joining Xavier McDaniel of Wichita State in 1984-85 as the only NCAA player to lead the nation in both categories. 

A 6-foot-7, 210-pound center from Philadelphia, Gathers was forecast as a first-round selec­tion in this year's NBA draft. He passed up the draft follow­ing his junior season. 
It was the second time this season that Gathers has col­lapsed on his home court dur­ing a game. 
On Dec. 9 against UC Santa Barbara, Gathers went to the foul line with 13:56 left in the second half, missed his first free throw, stepped away from the foul line and went down. He underwent several days of tests in a local hospital and returned after missing two games. 
Gathers passed those tests and began taking medication to regulate his heartbeat. Doctors suspected that an accelerated heartbeat may have led to the fainting spell on that occasion. 
Gathers convinced the doc­tors to cut back on his medica­tion, after which he felt his body strength improving. He turned the corner in the first 
week  in  February  when  he  
scored  44 points against  St.  
Mary's.  

After Gathers collapsed, a de­cision to postpone the tourna­ment was made by Conference Commissioner Mike Gilleran. 
Athletic Director Brian Quinn said that three physicians were worked on Gathers while he was placed into the ambulance and taken to the hospital. 
Gilleran, in his sixth season as wee commissioner, stated that there will be no conference games played Monday. 
Ferry may return to U.S. to play 
MILAN, Italy (AP) -Former Duke All-American Danny Ferry may join his teammate Brian Shaw in returning to the United States after a less-than­impressive season in the Italian basketball league, a sports newspaper reported Sunday. 
Gazzetta dello Sport of Milan, Italy's largest sports daily, said Ferry's poor performance in Italy could have sealed his decision to leave Rome and sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who hold his NBA draft rights. Ferry signed last year with Messaggero Roma for an Italian record $1.5 million. 

"Rome is losing Ferry," read the paper's banner headline. 
Shaw. signed by the Roman team along with Ferry last summer, has decided to rejoin the Boston Celtics at the end of the season. 
Messaggero, eighth in the regular season standings, is fighting for a berth in the Italian league playoffs in May. 
Messaggero. officials and Ferry could not be reached for comment on Sunday. 
The article quoted coach Valerio Bianchini as saying that Ferry, 23, had an extremely ex­hausting start in the Italian league "and is now taking a breather -he's going through a period of low energy." 
Gazzetta also reported that Messaggero already was nego­tia_yng for a replacement. 
Monday, March 5, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The NO men's tennis team defeated two Top 20 teams last before falling 5-4 to Pepperdinein the semifinal round of last weekend's HEB Collegiate Tennis Championships. Irish sophomore Dave DiLucia was named Outstanding Player of the tournament by a vote of the players. Details will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. 
The NO baseball team won three of four games in its trip to Texas over the weekend. The Irish lost 5-3 Friday to the University of Texas, swept St. Mary's 3-2 and 5-1 in a Sat­urday doubleheader, then beat Trinity 5-4 on Sunday. De­tails will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. 
The NO softball team opened its season over the weekend by getting swept in a doubleheader to Indiana. The Hoosiers recorded wins of 7-3 and 4-0 over the Irish. 
The NO Cycling Club will be having a meeting Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 
The SMC lacrosse team has practice at 4 p.m. today at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 6:30 
p.m. in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
NVA needs officials for floor hockey. The pay is $8.50 per game. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Late Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups for anyone who missed all the other sign-ups will be held from 2-4 p.m. to­day in the SUB office. This will be the final opportunity for sign-ups. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be March 26. 
The Observer accepts class11ieds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center Deadlme for next day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day. mcludmg spaces
Classifieds 

- NOTICES  LOST: Favorite pair of Ray Bans in tan case. If found. please return. Matt 271·9576  ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F 1 OAM-4PM 255-8700  HOUSE FOR RENT WALKING DISTANCE FROM ND 232-3616  Parrot Heads Forever !! ! T Weav is almost here  Quotes from English 322 'Hire the handicapped · it's fun to watch ·At ND men are boys and  
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF BIG SCREE EN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1.400 IN JUST 10 DAYS! I! Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1 ,400 Cost: Zero Investment  WANTED OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1 ·800-343·8373  FORSALE .] Plane TX to DENVER leave 3/10 return 3/17 out of Indianapolis CHEAP! #4825  Attention! Humes bowled a 148 last Thursday night! Way to goI  women are guys • All women are w· 'Life is sado·macochism 'Why wouldn't you marry your sister? 'Children are a waste of money  
Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1(800)932·0528/1 (800)950-8472,  Mar, CA 92625. EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all positions. Both skilled and unskilled. For information Call  think spring break!  STUDENTS... JUST DO IT!!!!!  
ext. 10  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  (615) 77g-5507 Ext. R-200.  ATTENTION FEMALE  
CALL 615-473·7440 EXT. B340.  TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Take advantage of student  
TYPING AVAILABLE  ATTENTION: EASY WORK  FOR SALE: Spring Break  discounts on IBM PS/2's.  
287·4082  Need a ride to Md, Va, or DC  EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble  plane ticket to Ft.Lauderdale  To that certain someone who was  
EXPERT TYPING  area over break. Will pay and help drive. Ca11Tom4180  products at home. Details. ( 1) 602­838·8885 Ext. W·6262.  BEST OFFER call Molly @284·5410  Visit the ND Computer Store for more details.  in the corner of Senior Bar sometime last week and who had a  
$3/PG 291·3829 WORDPROCESSING 272·1837  ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­ AITENTION: EARN MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/YEAR INCOME POTENTIAL DETAILS. (1) 602-838-8885 EXT. TV-6262.  I have 1 ticket from O'Hare to Tampa for $238. It leaves on 3/10 and returns 3/17. If interested call x3772.  NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS-CAN  beer in his hand every time I looked over ... to this specific person. I say hello!!!  
..  NEED A BABYSITTER? 21 YR OLD, ND SENIOR, WILLING TO SIT EVENINGS. HAVE CAR/WILL TRAVEL, RATES NEGOTIABLE. CALL MICHELLE 283·1825.  8885. Ext. R.6262 GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL DESPERATELY SEEKING A GOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM.  Please help!! I need a ride back to N.D. from the State College, PA-Pittsburgh area on Sun. March 18. Will gladly help with expenses and driving. CALL Jim N. #3498  80' FORD FAIRMONT. AUTOMATIC, NC. 110,000 MI. RUNS OK. $640. CALL LEE, 272­8538. PLANE TICKET South Bend to Denver  LEAVE 3·8 OR 3-9-DAVE X1808 BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college teachers, unable to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible, caring people  Smigs and Bobber, GOOD LUCK at Nationals!!! You guys will do GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!IIIIII!!!! Love, Nan, Nora. and Jodi P.S. Have a GREAT time in Florida!!!  
..  MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 For a hot tip on where to find a good time Call647·0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events Hotline  RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELP DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4078 Pardon me; I am seeking a goodly number of those darling little tank tops that read, "Drink like a champion." Do call X3574. Need ride home or close to home-· Atlanta; Thomasville,Ga.; or Tallahassee, Fla.  WANTED: POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED FOR HIGH-CALIBER BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 iN FiNAL 32. IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 FOR RENT  3-9 to 3·18. Call Pete 272-9927 For Sale: 1980 CAMARO $1200. 232-6085 TICKETS NEED 3 KENTUCKY LOWER ARENA G.A.'S. CALL BRYCE X1646  ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect anytime except Tuesffhurs. 317·743-4512. hi'ag RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, /N 46514 or Call219·262·1581.  Valentines Senator, Thanks for Saturday night, I had a great time. A coke, beer, mugs, dops, a night at the movies, and a meaningful encounter, what else could one ask for? I still don't understand the  
LOST/FOUND  (Southern GA) Can leave after 2:30 Fri.,return by Sun night. Call Shonda X2551  KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm, 2bth,lurnished  PERSONALS  Mary Ann S. Have a nice day II! Love your busy bees! SPRING BREAK  thing with ice. See ya tonight! Pontenate.  
·­ Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red stripes. Any info call Tom at 234-9728. REWARD LOST: Gold ring with Ruby. Great sentimental Value. Please, return to Nick , x5208 or 277·7236. Reward. FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify LOSTI LOST! LOST! LOSTI LOST! A gold, Gruen watch with a smooth brown band in between Knott and St. Ed's. Call Brad at x1701.  EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER O!;'PORTUNITY·-Be a counselor at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern Pennsylvania, 2/12 hours from New York City. co-ed 6/23·8/21. Salary plus travel allowance and room and board. Option for pre· camp work starting 6/10. Warm, fun family atmos. Specialists needed in all sports. waterfront, camping, computers, arts. Sign·up CPO, Hesburgh Library. Write Box 823, Lynbrook, NY 11563 or call 516-599·4562 COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Outstanding brother/sister sports camps · 22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls · 215-884·3326; boys · 914-698­1833.  $600 pimth 913 Leland X4420 FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153 2 and 4 bedrm. furnished houses; 90-91 year. Great cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 or 288-5653 FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE CALL 234-6688 OR 234-5041 . 2 STUDENT HOUSES. 6·7 BDRMS. EACH. CALL CHUCK GLORE 232·1776.  FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good neighborhood ,dishwasher ALL 2 2­$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ Need Billy Joel Tickets Ill! Worse than you could believe!! Please call #2030 or #4819!!  DAYTONA $139 rm. only; $229 w. trans High quality accommadations call Todd 1-800-265·1799 I need a ride to PIITSBURGH AREA (or destinations east on PA turnpike) for break-will help pay for gas, tolls· Lisa X2218 ....,................... KEVIN, TIM, TONY, MIKE, and all the rest of the NO SKATERS & CO. Thanks for the great hockey season. May all of you reach yo,ur goals.  ., 277-3324 I I I ~~ I I 12" International I I comb6 1  
LOST... diamond and sapphire ring. High sentimental value .. "''reward''""''"" Call Debbie #2935. ··········--------------------·-----­. ~ . .  BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1481.  LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234·9364. • • -• ·• " ·-. ... • ..,  •  Don't forget,$$$$$$$$$$!!!!!!!!! Loveya, free Delivex:yGOING TO CINCINNATI3/9-10? Kt expires 3/8190Please take me with you I $$$ Tanya x3688. *"'***•··················------------------------------------­-· -----------------------------------·· ................... ,. 1..---­................. ,.~ ....... . ~ .. • • ·., • ... e • • • t. • i. • • t. l t ~ a. l-1 • t A. ' 4 a ' t • • a .. • -. ' '· t~ "'....... L • ~ ~ ,  


Bengals 
continued from page 20 
185-pound championship, won by Ricky Purcell when the ref­eree stopped his contest with Robert Urban late in the second round. Urban had scored well against Purcell, drawing blood from the defending champ's nose early in the second round. Two right uppercuts by Pur­cell then felled his opponent, and although Urban com­plained later, the officials stopped the fight. McCormick said that the referees made the 
right call.  .,  
"There's around,  not amateur  a or  fighter profes­ 

sional, who doesn't think he can continue. In amateur box­ing, if somebody gets hurt, the fight's over," said McCormick. 
There were many other fine matches. Brian Stokes won a split decision over Timothy Phelan in a .tightly contested 127-pound fight. Erik Milito used a strong right hook to score a split decision win over Mick Meyer at 138 pounds, And powerful Kurt Lauber outmus­cled Shane Hitzeman to win the 150-pound championship. 
Referee Terry Johnson was honored for his service to the Bengal Bouts in a ceremony be­fore the final bout of the night, as was founder Dominic Napolitano's widow, "Schatze" 
page 13 

Napolitano. Mrs. Napolitano received the prestigious Bengal Bout Award. given annually to the person who best represents the spirit of the Bengal Bouts. 
Jody Armetta, who. had al­ready shown his spirit in de­feating heavy favorite David Cane in the semifinals, earned his first title by winning a split decision over Colin Mullaney at 154 pounds. Defending champ Vance Becklund fought off a stubborn John Sordi en route to a unanimous decision at 158 pounds. 
Kerry Wate showed his strength in a 160-pound battle when he forced the referee to stop his contest with Chuck Moser at the 1:12 mark of the third round, and Jim Hawkins used his reach advantage on Norm Conley to score a unani­mous decision at 162 pounds. 
Kevin Max won a split deci­sion after a wild battle with Patrick Fay at 174 pounds, and Mike Ryan protected himself in earning the 180-pound title, using his jab and staying out of reach of the more powerful Chris Kiley as the Bengal Bouts were a rousing success once again. 
"It was a great tournament, we had a little bit of every­thing," said McCormick. "This was a first class boxing exhibi­tion, and everybody put on a great performance. When the University decides to do some­thing like this, they do it right." 

Report says Maryland 'blown away' by NCAA 
nounce the penalties at a news conference within a few days. 
David Berst, assistant execu­tive director for enforcement of the NCAA, said Saturday that he would defer all comment re­garding an announcement to university officials but would speak about the penalties once they were announced. 
According to the Sun's sources, there are a number of reasons why the program was hit hard. 
One source said the main rea­son was that the NCAA believed the university showed a lack of institutional control from the time it hired former coach Bob Wade without the benefit of a proper search, through the 18 violations committed during Wade's three seasons. 
Among the more serious vio­lations against Wade were pro­viding a leased car, cash pay­ments of $272 and rides for former Terrapins guard Rudy Archer before, during and after his one-season stay; giving free and discounted clothing to Alonzo Mourning and Brian Williams while they were being recruited; providing false and misleading information to NCAA investigators, and trying to get his assistant coaches to provide false and misleading information. 
Wade also was unavailable for comment. 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. (AP)­The University of Maryland will be banned from postseason play this year and in 1991 un­der NCAA sanctions against the men's basketball program, a published report said Sunday. 
"We got blown away," an unidentified source told The Sun of Baltimore. The univer­sity apparently had expected only to be banned from post­season play this year. 
In addition, NCAA sanctions also include a ban from televi­sion next season, and the uni­versity also will likely have to return $479,000 for reaching the second round of the NCAA tournament in 1988, the Sun said. 
Other sanctions probably will include a reduction in scholar­ships and limitation on off­campus recruiting visits, the paper said. 
Under Coach Gary Williams, the Terrapins finished their regular season at 18-12 after Saturday's 89-74 victory over Virginia. An NCAA ban would not necessarily keep the Ter­rapins out of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. 
Neither Williams nor athletic director Lew Perkins were available for comment. Univer­sity president William E. Kir­wan has declined to comment on the matter, but the Sun said Kirwan was expected to an­
0 Glasses Our next day Jet ServlcelWI can let you have The latest In designer frames! 'Choose your new glasses in as little as 24 hours. even from hundreds of traditionaL contem­bifocals. trifocals. and line-free bifocals. I porary. designer. safety. and sport frames for the entire family. Our trained fashion con­\ sultants can help you select the perfect framel The newest lens stylesl We have a complete selection of lenses available. Including line-free Dr. Tavel's optometrists perfomn complete bifocals. shatterproofTNT. ultra thin H .1.P.. special and ttiorough eye examinations right on lenses for computer users. mechanics. electri­the premises. to ensure that your prescrip­cians. and other occupations. as well as UV tion is perfect. coatings and the latest in tints. Offer A Great Deal. We always have a great deal to offer at Dr.CONTACT LENS SPECIALS Tavel's Premium Optical! You'll find all the DAILY OR 2PAIRS latest styles and fashions in eyewear. fast EXTENDED WEAR OF11tm0 service. comprehensive eye exams,fashion consultants. and all atvery affordable prices.$3998 $9998 Sottmat. clear. dc:Jt.t. or Sottmat. 8 or 8 &. l ·o· llnled extended w.or le.-s -·n 2 ~..nt colon Eye exam ,.q.Jred for conloctL Sorroe power restrlctlorw apply. 1111 E. Ireland Road 291-40Xl All Insurance plans welcome GM Prefened VISion Providefal program Metropolitan Ford • Chrysler • Watnef Gear • Medicaid ffi~~ill  

A.B. is 21 today! 
Love, 
Mom, 
Dad, Chris, S John 

-
-
' 


Notre Dame 98, Missouri 67 
The Observer ,.,_A. Scott Avoiding the defensive intimidation of Kevin Ellery, Missouri's Doug Smith changes his mind about heading 
for the basket. 
Upset 
continued from page 20 
The seeond wave of Notre Dame players kept the momen­tum up, building the lead to 13 at the half. 46-33, on Monty

,. Williams' buzzer-beating 16­foot baseline jumper off the in­bounds play. The Tigers hit their first four shots from the field. then went 8-for-26 the rest of the way to finish the half shooting 40 per­cent. Missouri shot 45 percent for the game. The Irish shot 61 percent for the game, led by Singleton, who hit all four of his shots, mostly fast break lay-ups, and Williams, who was 6-of-8. "Coach put me on the bench," Williams said. "And I knew when I got in that I had to con­tribute fast, while I got the chance. I knew we could beat them, but not as bad as we did." In the second half, Phelps again stuck with the lineup that was working. "I got the five guys who would say 'let's play together and get it done,'" Phelps said. "We came out relaxed and con­fident, and we started pounaing 
The Observer

-
-
London  $199  Madrid  $235  
Paris  225  Rome  259  
Frankfurt 215  

Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Fares 1/2 RT from Chicago. Some re­strictions apply. On·the-spot rail· passes. lnt'l. Student 1.0. cards, youth hostel passes. work and study pro­grams. Call for FREE Travel Catalog. 

away again. We just were not going to lose." 
"Notre Dame was outstand­ing," said Missouri head coach Norm Stewart, whose team is now i6-4. "They were tremen­dous from the start. We've come through a tough confer­ence schedule, and we sched­uled this game for a reason. We wanted a chance to prepare for the NCAAs." 
Stewart started a different five in the second half. The sec­ond five lost four points to the Irish before the original starters were brought in. 
"Everyone deserves a chance to lose," Stewart said. "We weren't getting too much per­formance. In the second half, we played aggressively, but we couldn't score. There wasn't much hope at that point." 
Hope, and wins over Syracuse and Missouri, are what the Irish are living on in terms of post-season play. After consec­utive losses to DePaul, Georgia Tech and Dayton, the Irish needed Saturday's win to have a shot at impressing the NCAA Tournament selection commit­tee. 
"We've played every type of situation," Phelps said. "We've played 15 road games. We've played three Top 10 teams three weeks in a row, and won two of three. I think if you look at the power rating of our schedule, we'll be in the top 30 teams in the country." 
MISSOURI (67) 

Buntin 3-5 2-3 8, Smith 5-11 3-5 13, Ford 5-10 2-2 12, Mcin­tyre 2-7 2-2 7, Peeler 3-9 2-4 9, Coward 3-6 0-0 7, Horton 1-2 0-0 2, Coleman 1-2 0-0 3, Burns 0-0 0-0 0, Sutton 1-2 0-0 2, Heller 2-2 0-2 4, Warren 0-2 0­0 0. Totals 26-58 11-18 67. 
NOTRE DAME (98) 
Ellis 3-7 3-5 9, Sweet 6-11 0­1 12, Robinson 6-9 1-1 13, Bennett 4-6 1-2 9, Ellery 4-9 1­2 11, Fredrick 4-8 0-0 8, Tower 0-0 0-0 0, Singleton 4-4 1-2 9, Williams 6-8 2-2 14, Jackson 0­0 0-0 0, Paddock 5-5 1-3 11. Totals 43-70 10-18 98. 
Halftime~Notre Dame 46, Missouri 33. 3-point goals­Missouri 4-15 (Coleman 1-1, Peeler 1-1, Coward 1-3, Mcin­tyre 1-6, Ford 0-4), Notre Dame 2-6 (Ellery 2-3, Fredrick 0-1, Crawford 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Mis­souri 30 (Smith 9), Notre Dame 39 (Robinson 12). Assists­Missouri 22 (Peeler 7), Notre Dame 26 (Singleton 8). Total fouls-Missouri 17, Notre Dame 19. A-11,418. 


WANTED: 
One ambitious Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student seeking challenging extra-curricular involvement to fill the following position: 
Observer Typesetting Service Director 
Applicants for this position should: 
• 
Possess strong management skills and the ability to work with all types of people. 

• 
Be eager to develop valuable Apple Macintosh skills. 

• 
Be energetic and enterprising. 

• 
Have the initiative to expand upon the successes of aprofitable business venture. 


Contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
c _
Ihe Obset:ver__ 
The CbserverI Dave Short LaPhonso Ellis !:pots the open man in the passing lane in Notre Dame's upset of Big Eight champ Missouri. 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT l 
l---~~~----~~~-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
: Reg. $8 ~~~ :
r-------------------1 
: ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I ~~I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 

Notre Dame 98, Missouri 67 
The Observer I LA Soot!

As Digger Phelps looks to count the basket, the Notre Dame players celebrate a potential three-point play. 
Irish look to avoid post-Missouri letdown vs. Wildcats 
By GREG GUFFEY Digger Phelps said. "The most pate in the Southeastern Con­He's had those kids playing well 17 8 of those from beyond the 
Assistant Sports Editor important things is to keep this ference Tournament because of all year, and this is their last three-point stripe. 
team mentally into it. We had a NCAA probation. game to decide if they're going Miller has shot (281) and 
great weekend. Now we've got Kentucky lost LeRon Ellis, to have a winning season." made (96) more three-pointers
One might expect a letdown . to come back and get number Chris Mills and Sean Sutton The Wildcats have four play­than the entire Notre Dame after a victory over the third­16. There's still life and our following last year's NCAA ers scoring in double figures. team (65 and 178). Miller, Han­ranked team in the country. goal is still there." probe, but first-year coach Rick Guard Derrick Miller, the line son (34), Feldhaus (32),
But the Notre Dame men's There should be a lot of emo­Pitino managed to keep the senior in the starting lineup, Pelphrey (44) and Richie basketball team knows what's tion tonight for the five Irish Wildcats competitive. leads Kentucky at 19.3 points Farmer (31) have all made at stake against Kentucky seniors who are playing their Kentucky has beaten per game followed by center more trifectas than Notre tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the last game at the JACC. Co-cap­Louisiana State, Alabama and Reggie Henson at 16.1 and Dame's leading shooter from Joyce ACC. tains Joe Fredrick and Jamere Georgia in the SEC and took forwards Daron Feldhaus at that land, Joe Fredrick (30). 
The Irish, 15-11 after a 98-67 Jackson, Keith Robinson, Scott Indiana to the wire in a 71-69 14.9 and John Pelphrey at 13.2. NOTES -Kentucky finished win over Missouri on Saturday, Paddock and Tim Crawford en­loss in December. Kentucky is Guard Sean Woods rounds out 10-8 in the SEC...The Wildcats need a victory over the Wildcats ter tonight's game with a home 13-3 at home and just 1-9 on the lineup at 9.2 ppg. lead the series with Notre and then one at De Paul this 
record of 50-12. the road. The Wildcats are not afraid Dame 31-16... The Irish won weekend to virtually assure Kentucky (14-13) will try to "They have enough talent to to shoot. They are 841-of-1922 last year's game 81-65...Notre themselves of a NCAA Tourna­spoil the going-away party for play against anybody," Phelps from the field this season with Dame is 0-1 against Kentuckyment bid. that quintet. This will be the said. "He (Pitino) has taken the 795 of those attempts from in the Joyce ACC. ..Because of 
"We're still not out of the last game of the season for the talent that was left and has three-point land. In contrast, the probation, tonight's gamewoods," Notre Dame coach Wildcats, who cannot partici-done a very good job with it. 1499 overall field goals with will not be televised live. 
Irish
The Observer, 

continued from page 20
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 

Put a hold on the order for r-==========~~~~~~:=========; the red, white and blue "iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:'~·~-·--·illiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ basketballs. Get a victory over
• J 

Kentucky and you can probably n,.~a~ HairCuttingC.,. forget about playing in the 
:•~ 8 tourney with three initials.
~ 

.,. .,. People were making plans for New York before the Missouri game, if the Irish even made that tourney at all. 
And this team, like its critics, could have packed it up as well. The seniors could have Started
~I • 
• II for Stepan instead of Remembering It's Denver. The rest of the team could have made plans for next season and thought about what might have 
M • • H 
been. But a team meeting on Thursday changed that. This 
M • • H 
Buy Observer Classifieds 
M • • • • H 
SLOWDOWN!
PE LE 


INClUDES PRECISION CUT li SHAMPOO INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE .
REDKEN 
G~APE RO., MISHAWAKA 


team decided it didn't want to be the first in six years to be denied an invitation to the big dance. 
"It was getting to the point where if we lost, we were going to the NIT," senior co-captain Joe Fredrick said. "There's no use playing for 65th place in the country." 
In order to play for the top spot, the Irish need to keep that momentum going tonight against Kentucky and than again Saturday at De Paul. Those games will be the real test. 
For now, Denver has become secondary to just making the tourney. Make the tourney and everything else will fall into place. 
And this Notre Dame team is one that could make some noise in the post-season. Just ask Missouri, the number-one club in the nation until a loss to Oklahoma last Sunday. 
The Irish have proven they can play with anybody against Syracuse, De Paul and Georgia Tech. They took the final step ... in showing they can hold a lead against Missouri. 
This is a team that has experienced a lot of growing pains. They grew a foot on Saturday. 
The players say this team is still growing. How far could it grow in the NCAA Tournament? "As far as we want," Ellis said. 
Missouri might answer that 
Notre Dame could become a 
giant instead of a giant-killer. 
.. . 

~American Heart ~Association 
PROFESSIONAL HOURS: Daily 9-8
277-7~ 

Please apply at the Student Activities Office. 
PRODUCTS Sat 9-6 Sun. 11-5 
' Hair longer than shoulder lenglh $10 additional. ~of Chicago Hair Culling Co. 1990 
-----------.. -----.. -.-----------·---------­
Monday, March 5. 1990

p~a~g~e~16~--------------------------------------------~T~h~eObseNer 
Michael hits, Bird misses, Bulls nip Celtics at the wire 
BOSTON (API -Michael to go. But he was fouled by 15 points in the final period. Chuck Person scored 29 to It was close for most of the Jordan got 12 of his 36 points Scottie Pippen. who protested Bird led Boston with 38 lead Indiana, which got only second half as no more than in the fourth quarter. and NBA and was called for a technical points. 20 in the fourth quarter, seven points in the final 4:29 of five points separated the teams free throw leader Larry Bird foul. and Robert Parish had 18 the game _ all by Person. until the final moments. missed a foul shot with 11.6 Bird, whose streak of 71 sue-points and 18 rebounds. For Reggie Miller added 25 for the Detroit led 58-57 at the half seconds left and a 3-pointer cessful foul shots ended Feb. Chicago, Pippen had 22. Pacers, who lost their third after Dumars hit two free with three seconds remaining 13, made the technical foul shot straight. throws with 6.5 seconds left. Sunday as the Chicago Bulls but missed the next free throw Pistons 111, Pacers 105 Trailing 98-96 with 4:29 left, held on for their eighth straight before making the third. It left Detroit guards Joe Dumars Detroit scored eight straight Dumars kept the Pistons in win, 118-114 over the Boston Boston down 115-114. and lsiah Thomas scored 23 points to go ahead 104-98 on the game during the third quar­Celtics. Kevin McHale quickly fouled points each and the Pistons John Salley's free throw with ter, when he scored 17 points. 
The winning streak is the Pippen. who made one of two held Indiana scoreless for 3:26 1:10 left. Person canned a 3-He sank his first seven shots Bulls' longest since 1980-81. shots with 10.2 seconds re-down the stretch Sund:w in :! pointer to pull Indiana within from the field in the period be­Th•~Y have won their last three maining. The Celtics got the re-111-1 OS victory over thP 104-101 with 1:03 to play, but fore missing the last two. roa.d games and avenged a 102-bound and rushed down court. Pacers. Dumars fed Bill Laimbeer for 100 loss to Boston in Chicago Bird got the ball near the 3-It was the Pistons' fifth an easv basket with 44 seconds Phoenix 108, Cleveland 96 on Nov. 4 in their only previous point line on the right side, but straight victory, 18th in 19 left to i-uake it 106-101. Kevin Johnson eelebrated his meeting. Boston's four-game his shot was partially blocked games and lOth in a row at 24th birthday Sunday by seor­winning streak. which matched by Pippen. home. Person hit two free throws ing 12 of his 30 points during a their longest of the season. Craig Hodges came up with Mark Aguirre added 15 with 25.7 seconds remaining, 15-5 third-period run as the ended. the ball for the Bulls, was points for the Pistons and making it 106-103, before Phoenix Suns beat the Cleveland 
The Bulls' 115-112 lead ap-fouled and finished the scoring Dennis Rodman grabbed 17 re-Aguirre and Thomas combined Cavaliers 108-96 for their dub­peared safe when Bird missed a with two free throws with .5 bounds. Six Pistons scored in to hit five free throws, clinching record 17th conseeutive vietory 3-point shot with 11.6 seconds seconds left. He had 12 of his double figures. Detroit's victory. at home. 
~--~~-c--------~~--~-c-~~~ 
rOundtrip airfares on orthwestAirlines. ,notJUSt agreat price. ts agreat experience. 
Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.)
... 
Then get ready to take off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. through january 1991 on all Northwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
American Express and Northwest Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. • travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively certificates and other certificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­and personal service you would expect from 
·'" OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Northwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for 
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER
Each certificate is good for a six-month the Card. And start packing!
IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL.
period, and they will arrive within six 

just pick up the phone, call1-800-942­
weeks after you receive the Card. Current 
AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your
Cardmembers will iutomatically receive 
application and begin to process it 
their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 
immediately. (If you have your banking 
provided they are still full time students~ 
information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help Membership Has Its Privileges~ 
APPLY TODAY 

1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

•If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVEK. 
----~--~~--~~~­

------~----~--­
----------~----------------~ 
Monday, March 5, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Syracuse caotures Big East title 
Thompson's technica1s give Orangemen lift over Hoyas 
(AP)-Give Stephen Thomp­

son credit for the winning 
basket in Syracuse's 89-87 
overtime win over Georgetown 
on Sunday. 
Assess John Thompson the 

blame for Stephen Thompson's 
being in position to score it. 
The Georgetown coach was thrown out of a game for the first time in 15 years in the first half of the game at the Carrier Dome, an ejection that carried three technical fouls with it. That contributed di­rectly to 10 Syracuse points that helped erase a 10-point first-half deficit. 
"Basically what happened is that it's probably my fault more than the officials' fault," said Thompson, who was called for three technicals in succes­sion by three different officials after protesting a foul called on Dwayne Bryant. 
"I probably let my competitive juices flow and those of us who have competed understand that. I made a mistake and that's that." 
Overall, seventh-ranked Ge­orgetown (22-5. 11-5 in the Big East) lost the game as much as Syracuse won it, although it gave the Orangemen a tie for Connecticut for the confer­ence's regular season title at 12-4. No. 10 Syracuse is also 22-5 overall. 
On Saturday, Cornelius Holden of No. 21 Louisville set an NCAA Division I record when he shot 14 of 14 in a 73­71 win over Mississippi State. 
No. 2 Nevada-Las Vegas earned a share of the Big West regular-season championship by trouncing Fullerton State 103-85 but surrendered the top 

c--­
~ 
Q.) 
~ 
0 
c:J 
= 
~ 
Q.) 
= 
0 
8 
....... 
Q.) 
8 
~ 
f= I 
• =~ 
c:J 
Q.) 
I ~ 
r:::-./:1
Q.) 
~ 
Q.) 
I ~ 


seed in the postseason tourney to No. 24 New Mexico State, which beat Fresno State 82-68; No. 4 Connecticut clinched a share of the Big East crown with a 95-74 win over Boston College; No. 5 Oklahoma laid claim to the revolving-door No. 1 spot with a 111-94 victory over Oklahoma State; No. 1 Kansas, a loser to Oklahoma earlier in the week, beat Iowa State 96-63; 
No. 11 Georgia Tech beat No. 20 Clemson 85-69, but Duke's loss gave the Tigers the ACC ti­tle anyway; No. 12 Arkansas whipped Rice 104-80 and No. 13 La Salle beat Fairfield 90-60 in the quarter-finals of the Metro Atlantic Athlertic Con­ference tourney. 
No. 25 Georgia clinched its first regular-season Southeast­ern Conference title with a 94­79 victory over Auburn, No. 14 Michigan State took a one­game lead in the Big Ten with a 75-73 overtime victory over 17th-ranked Minnesota, No. 15 LSU beat Mississippi 103-94, No. 23 Arizona beat No. 16 Oregon State 87-60, Dayton beat No. 19 Xavier 111-108 and No. 22 Loyola Marymount out­gunned Gonzaga 121-84. 
Elsewhere, defending Western Athletic Conference champion Colorado State tied Brigham Young for the title with a 62-45 triumph over San Diego State and Ball State won its second straight regular-season Mid­Americamn Conference crown by routing Central Michigan 84­57. 
No. 9 Purdue 79, No. 8 Michigan 77 Jimmy Oliver's Callaway jumper with two seconds left 
gave ninth-ranked Purdue its victory and kept the Boilermak­ers (21-6, 13-4) a half game behind Michigan State. They meet the Spartans in the regu­lar-season finale next Sunday. North Carolina 87, No.5 Duke 75 
King Rice scored 20 points to lead five players in double fig­ures, and North Carolina spoiled Duke's hopes for a share of first place ACC and give Clemson the regular-sea­son title at 10-4. The Blue Dev­ils finished 23-7, 9-5. No. 18 Illinois 118, Iowa 85 
Kendall Gill scored 25 points Sunday and three other Illinois seniors scored in double figures for the Illni, who jumped to a 16-8 lead, then outscored Iowa 21-4 to take a 37-12 lead with five minutes left in the half. Sophomore Andy Kaufmann scored 21 and seniors Ervin Small, Stephen Bardo and P.J. Bowman added 19, 13 and 11 points respectively. 
The triumph improved Illinois to 20-7, 10-7 in the Big Ten. Iowa fell to 12-15 and 4-13. 
No. 21 Louisville 73, 
S. Mississippi 71 

Holden, a 6-7 sophomore, also was 4-of-4 from the foul line as the Cardinals came back from a 42-36 halftime deficit. He was fouled by Clarence Weatherspoon and made two free throws with eight seconds left to win the game, then clinched it with a steal. 
Holden was averaging 10.4 points a game and his previous high was 20 against Florida State.The previous best perfect shooting game in Division I was 13-of-13 by six players, the last was Brad Daugherty. 
Well, who isn't? We need people interested in getting involved and working hard. 

Applications are now available for Student Government Cabinet positions for 1990-1991. Applications and job descriptions may be obtained at the Student Government secretary's office (2nd floor LaFortune) beginning March 1st, and must be returned by March 8th 
The following positions are available: 
Student Body Secretary 
Executive Coordinators for: Intellectual Life •Public Relations •Student Life •Special Projects •Legal Department •Board ofTrustee Reports 
Commissioners & Assistant Commissioners for: 
Academics •Political Concern~ •Iceberg Debates •World Awareness Series •Social Concerns Hall Fellows Programs •Faculty -Senate Liaison •Intellectual Life 
Alumni Relations • ND/SMC Relations •Photography •Correspondence •Lay-out/Design •Foreign Relations 
Women's Concerns •Minority/Cultural Concerns •Campus Improvements •Security Alcohol/Food/Health •Student Services •Legal Department Researchers &Policy Analysts 
,-....... 
~ ~ 
["-­
~ 
~ 
"-'"' 
~ 
Q) 
~ 
~ 
0 ~ 
,-....... N 
~ 
["-­
~ 
~ 
"-'"' 
~ ~ 
Q) 
~ 
0 
~ 
~ ~ 
C\$ 
u 
C'-... 
~ 
s::: 
C) 
·~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
OJ 
..... 
... 
----~­

-------~-----~-~ 
page 18 The Observer Monday, March 5, 1990 
ND lacrosse sets offensive records in season opener 
Quigley ties record with six goals in rout of Canisius 
Sophomore attackman Mike pressive 20 of 24 tries while
By PETE LaFLEUR 

Sullivan is in the record books Canisius converted only 17 of
Sports Writer 

with three goals and six assists, 39 clearing tries. establishing two records and "The key thing there was that 
Five Irish lacrosse scoring tying another. Sullivan set the whole team was working records were broken or tied records for assists at home (6) together on the clears and Saturday as Notre Dame ex­and points (9) at home and rides," Carey explained. "The ploded for a 19-7 season-open­equaled '89 graduate John middie line was moving the ball ing win over Canisius College Olmstead's overall record of up quickly and everyone else (0-1) at the Loftus Sports Cen­nine points in a game. was working hard to get open. ter. Freshman Chris Parent posted We've been working on that a 
The Irish, who won their ninth 10 saves in his first Irish start lot in the past two weeks. It's straight home opener, benefit­while sophomore Tom Duane really important to have good ted more from the new NCAA came off the bench to stop clearing and riding schemes rules, which encourage a faster three shots. Junior middies Pete with the faster pace." and more offensive-minded Gillin and Chris Rowley epito­Senior attackman Brian game, than did the Golden mized the Irish dominant ball McHugh, by posting a goal and Griffins, who were playing their control by scooping up six and three assists, moved into ninth first game at the Division I. five ground balls, respectively. on the Irish career scoring list varsity level. The return of five The Irish defense held their with 7 5 points and is now only Irish starters to the attaek and opponent to nine goals or less seven points away from seventh middie lines likewise proved ef­for the thirteenth time in the place. feetive as the starting midfield last 14 outings. Only four Two Irish newcomers netted line and starting attaek line teams in the last three years their first Irish goal in the eaeh poured in seven goals. have cracked the ten goal bar­high-scoring affair. Freshman 
"Ttw new rules were definitely rier against Notre Dame. The midfielder Ed Lamb posted two an advantage beeause they Irish defenders also thwarted second half goals while rookie make the game move quicker," four of five Canisius man-up attaekman Bo Perriello chipped said senior eo-captain Dave opportunities. in a goal and an assist. Fresh­Carey. "It's definitely impor­Quigley got Notre Dame off to man middie Chip Lonsdale eame tant to spread the scoring out a fast start with three first up with his first Irish point with sueh a fast-paced game." quarter goals, leading the Irish when he assisted Sullivan on a 
to a 6-1 first period lead. From second quarter goal. 
Ten Irish players scored in the there on it was pretty much all "All of the freshmen played rout, led by senior co-captain downhill, with the Irish taking really well," Carey said. "They Mike Quigley, who tied two an 11-4 lead into halftime. The all seemed to fit in really well." Irish records by exploding for Golden Griffins never cut the Notre Dame peppered the The Irish had not posted such Next up for thA Irish is Had­six goals from his midfield lead under seven the rest of the Canisius goal with 60 shots high numbers since April of ford, which travels to South spot. Quigley now shares the way. while the Golden Griffins put up 1987, when they routed Witten­Bend for a game on Tuesday. If overall goals record with three Irish dominance in the clear­only 35 attempts. Canisius burg 26-1. Saturday's 19 goals the weather cooperates, the former players and is only the ing opportunities was the most earned the edge on faceoffs ranks as the sixth-highest game will be played in Krause second Irish player to seore six telling statistic. Notre Dame (15-14) and each team scooped Notre Dame offensive output in Stadium at 3:30 p.m.; .if not, ~oals at home. cleared their zone on an im-up 43 ground balls. 120 games. the game will bn moved inside. 
Grand jury may be called in N.C. State investigation
.. 
HALEIGII, N.C. (AP) -State crime and nobody will talk to of NCAA rules from two men essary because of continued that would be an appropriate investigators, already being as-you, then you can force them to while at N.C. State, but he has negative publicity. conclusion of the matter," sisted by the FBI, are eonsider-either talk to you or take the denied being involved in point-Kaminsky met with sehool of-Johnson said. ing use of a federal grand jury Fifth Amendment," Cheshire shaving. Kramer also has de-ficials Saturday night, but in their probe of alleged point-said. adding that grand juries nied trying to influence games. Harold Hopfenberg, interim In the CBS interview, Valvano shaving by former North meet as a matter of course at While the investigations in-athletic director, said acting again denind involvement in the Carolina State basketball play-certain times. tensified, the North Carolina chancellor Larry Monteith is in problems with the basketball ers. "They can definitely be a State campus swirled with ru-no hurry to resolve the issue. program and said it would have 
Hill Dowdy of the State Bu-fishing expedition," he said. mors that Coach Jim Valvano If N.C. State is forced to pay been impossible to know about reau of Investigation said Sun-"That has long been one of the was ready to step aside. He ' Valvano to leave, it is not clear what his players were doing. day his agency has been unable arguments against grand coached the Wolfpack Sunday where the money would come to flush out the unidentified juries. But I don't see it happen in the regular-season finale from. He said a new TransAm former player who told ABC very often in the federal against Wake Forest, but his "That's the real issue," said driven by Shackleford was reg­News last week that at least realm." agent, Art Kaminsky. was in Roddy Jones, chairman of the istered to the player's girl­three players, including Charles Dowdy, citing SBI budget town to meet with school offi-University of North Carolina friend, who had graduated Shackleford, had conspired to cuts, said other agencies al-cials. Board of Governors. from N.C. State and had a job shave points on at least four ready are cooperating with his It has been speculated that William Johnson, a former in Atlanta. games. agency. Federal authorities Kaminsky is trying to reach a chairman of the UNC Board of 
"I don't know who he is and I have promised to cooperate compromise with school offi-Governors, said he hopes no "There are things that a wish I did," Dowdy said. "At and "they've been a big help al-cials on a contractual clause money changes hands if Val-coach certainly knows and is least, I don't know definitely." ready," Dowdy said. While that requires a $500,000 payoff vano steps down. responsible for." he said. 
A federal grand jury, with Dowdy said the FBI has been should either party sever the "I think if he were to resign, "There are other things that as subpoena powers and the assisting the SBI, an FBI relationship without cause. and the $500,000 clause were coach, are simply beyond your threat of perjury charges, could spokesman said Sunday that ''I'm not resigning today," waived by both parties, I think control." 
join the investigation if the SBI the agency at this time is not Valvano said Sunday in an in-rr~~~=====================~~~=-:::;w believes such a move is neces-involved in the N.C. State probe. terview with CBS. ''I'm coaching l l!l W II sary. Meanwhile, the Denville, N.J., Wake Forest and I'm looking ~ ~' "That's a possibility down the police chief was expected Mon-forward to coaching the line," Dowdy said. "I really day to turn over to the district Atlantic Coast Conference 
TOWNHOUSES
think it's too early to speculate attorney's offiee ·the results of (tournament) next week. whether that would be war-a four-month investigation in-"As of this point, no one has ranted at this point in time." volving Shackleford and Robert informed me of any decision by 
For Rent 
Joe Cheshire, a prominent Kramer, the alleged the university." .... Raleigh defense lawyer. said a "mastermind" of the point-Valvano has not been impli­
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
grand jury could streamline the shaving scheme. cated in the point-shaving in-investigation. Shackleford, now with the vestigation, but he has said he "If you're a state agent and New Jersey Nets, has admitted would be willing to leave if uni-
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
:vou're out there investigatin~ a receiving $65,000 in violation VArsity official~ bAlit:wP it is nec­
r-•••••••••••••2o;;[)i;~~~~t••••••••--••: 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements
I TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : 
I I 
Rear Yards 

------~-----------------------------­
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 

Professional Vision 
-· 
Dr. Ronald Snyder
1635 N. Ironwood 

and Associates
North of McDonald's 277-1161 
Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 
~~ Ji\

·-­
Monday, March 5, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
-

ACROSS 25 Retain 48 U.S. holly 28 Ballet skirt 49 Social
Monday 1 TV series engagementfeatured herein 30 Aquatic mammal so Tilts sideways 
7:30 p.m. "Prospects for Peace in El Salvador," given by 6 Entertainer 34 Altar on high 
52 Susan-plays
Gladis Sibrian, a representative of El Salvador's rebel Falana 
Grace Van Owen 
35 Five: Comb. 

Farabundo Marti Front for National Liberation and the 10 Zany 
54 High-school
Democratic Revolutionary Front, at the Center for Social 14 Attica's form 
subject
36 Grayish tan 

Concerns. Sponsored by Student Government, Overseas marketplace 
57 Annual quartet 15 Newspaper 37 "Kidnapped"
Development Network and the CSC. 61 Collection of 
notice, for short author's initials 
animals 
16 Understanding 38 Jackie's second 
63 Wooden shoe reply spouse 64 Sea eagles 
17 College officials 39 Electrical unit 
CAMPUS 65 Thurmond of 
18 Jimmy Smits 41 Land measure 
N.B.A. fame plays Victor-42 Former 66 Irregular
20 Signifies big-game guns 
67 First word of the Monday 22 Groups of nine 44 Soup server Bay State motto 23 Deighton or 46 Gun a motor 68-Rachins 7 p.m. Film, "The Bride of Frankenstein." Annenberg Au­Dykstra 47 Belgian W.W. I plays Douglas ditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre 24 Deputy battle site Brackman Department. 69 Precipitous 
9 p.m. Film, "Lust for Life." Annenberg Auditorium. Spon­----------------­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN
sored by ND Communication and Theatre Department. 
1 Alan or Cheryl 2Askew 3 Bank 
transaction 11 Nick Charles's 29 One-sided 51 Part of an opera 4 Corbin Bernsen dog 31 Coronet 53 Mitigates plays­12 Nourish 32 Wading bird 54 Pintail duck MENUS 
Becker 13 Hardy heroine 33 Superman 55 Decide: Rom. 5 Squander portrayer
19 Dignify law 
6 Deprivation 35 Making the 56 Guest houses 21 Enroll
Notre Dame 7 Kimono sash grade
24 Lawyer: Abbr. 57 Observed 
a Pool attendants 40 Slur over 
25-Hamlin 58 Hautboy
43 Free plays Michael 59 Proboscis9"... 1am 
Pot Hoast Ala Mode incapable of 45 Fool 
Kuzak 

so Pace 26 Lowest deck plays Leland 62Give-go 
Grilled Sole -":Lamb 49Richard­
Broccoli, Cheese Rice Casserole 10 Small room off a kitchen 27 Intense beam McKenzie (try)
BBQ Pork Sandwich 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
(J(.. \.\0~5, 
TOSS UP 1\.\\S DECK Of C~RDS, AAO l'lll>l\JG -,.,.~--­1\IE ~C'C or 
S?f..0£5! 
\.\t.R£. II IS! WOW.' Sl~ CLt}.N \-l0l£S 
-rnROJG\-l 
11-\t. t>.C£! 


®(ill riD Commissioner Rpp/ications Special EventsCommissions: Performing Arts ServicesRpplications due MusicFriday, March 9 Campus Entertainment Pick up Movies 2nd floor LaFortune Ideas and Issues at Secretary's Desk Publicity  ~@~~®©lru ww@lf~crn ~ ® r;:©J®fr<&®fr rMw[f)r.ru©fr~®frfll March 7, 7:00 and 9:00 Washington Hall Tickets go on sale Feb. 28 At Lafortune Info Desk ~ $2.00 students with I.D. ~ $3.00 non-students STUDENT UNION IO...RD  

Sports
page 20 Monday, March 5, 1990 
Rollercoaster Irish trounce Missouri 98-67 

By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame emotional rollercoaster started back on an uphill climb Saturday as the men's basketball team again established itself as a team that can beat anybody, as opposed to a team that anybody can beat. 
The Irish didn't just beat Missouri; they trounced a lack­adaisical Tiger team which came in ranked third in the country and left the Joyce ACC as quickly as possible. The final score: 98-67. 
"This is one of the great wins ever here," Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps said. "''ll take them No. 3 any time. Winning by 30 points was a fluke because of the emotion-1 wouldn't want to play them 10 times, but when we needed it, we got it done." 
When the Irish needed it most was early in the second half, as they built up a big lead and bat­tled against the letdown that has plagued them in the past few games. 
The five players who kept the Irish, now 15-11, up and the Tigers down were not, perhaps, those you would expect: Scott Paddock, Daimon Sweet, Monty Williams, Tim Singleton and Kevin Ellery. all of whom have sat this season and watched other Irish players take center stage. 
But not Saturday. 

"Every guy on the court had seen time on the bench," said Singleton, who had three key steals in the Irish run. "But each guy contributed. This was the time to show what we could do. On the court, we were re­laxed, and it was a team effort. We knew this time, when we got the lead, we had to bury them from there." 
With a 20-point lead at the 
11:32 mark in the second half, the five, along with center Keith Robinson, put together a 16-2 tear that lasted until 6:35 re­mained to play, built an 85-51 lead, and iced Notre Dame's second win over a top-five team on national television. 
Included in that span were goaltending calls on two con­secutive trips down the court, two steal-and-scores by Singleton and two inside moves for Paddock for scores. The balance was evident during that stretch, and also on the score sheet, where five Irish players scored in double figures, led by Williams with 14, and three more players added nine points each. 
"It started with the Dayton game," Paddock said of Notre Dame's 97-79 loss. "Our backs were to the wall. We realized we didn't want to go out this way. Coach got us a great game plan, and we executed. Everything clirked. We've been knocked down a lot, but we haven't given in." 
Notre Dame's starting live of Sweet. Ellery, Hobinson. LaPhonso Ellis and Elmer Bennett played the first I 0 minutes of the first half, falling behind early but putting to­gether an 11-2 run to take the lead, and working to a 23-19 advantage bnfore Phelps began substituting. 
see UPSET/ page 14 
31 points can change a season 
This was one for pride --------­and respect. This was one for the tournament selec­tion committee. This was one for the critics and 
J 

doubters. . 
But most of all, it was li/ •• one for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. G G ff 
The Irish seniors de-reg U ey cided they didn't want to Assistant Sports be remembered for an embarrassing 97-79 loss --------­at Dayton. They remedied that with a 98-67 rout of third-ranked Missouri Saturday afternoon at the Joyce ACC, the worst loss for the Tigers in four years. 
This game wasn't even as close as the 31­point margin indicated. The Irish got a lead, held it and then slammed the door in the second half. 
Bell sounds on 60th Bengal Bouts 
Trainor's courageous comeback highlights final round 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
It appeared that the 167­pound battle between between Chris Balint and Mike Trainor in the finals of 60th Bengal Bouts Friday night would end just seconds after it began in the north dome of the Joyce ACC. 
Balint twice knoeked Trainor to the eanvas with powerful right uppereuts early in the first round. and although Trainor managed to regain his senses and continun. a come­back victory seemed unfath­omable. 
"I knew he would come right at mP." said Trainor. "He just hit mP really hard. AftHr that, I just listened to my eorner man and my twin brother who I'd been ·• <lrking with for a while, and started to jab and move." 
At tlw end of the first round, Trainor turned the tide a bit with <:ombination to Balint's head. ;jAs the fight progressed, Balint seemed to tire as Trainor used a superior reach advantage to daze his oppo­nent, finally forcing a standing eight count in the third round. 
When final bell sounded, the crowd rose to its feet in appre­dation of Trainor's courage and Balint's strength in what was easily the best bout of the night. A unanimous decision by the judges made Trainor's im­probable comeback complete by awarding him a Bengal Bouts crown. 

"It was a elassic matchup," said boxing coach Sean Mc­Cormick. "The straight ahead fighter (Balint) versus a boxer with classic style (Trainor). Trainor started moving side to side, and that's what won the fight for him. I wasn't sur­prised at the comeback because he's in such great shape. Mike Trainor is just a terrific ath­lete, he's a tough kid with a su­per jab." 
Trainor and 13 other tough kids earned the right to be ealled Bengal Bouts champs on Friday night. For some. like 134-pounder John Manfredy. it was not a new experience. 
Manfredy, a fourth-year ar­chitect major who did not de­fend his championship last year because he was in Rome. had to defeat Derek Bartlett, a very formidable opponent, in order to regain his crown. 
"(Bartlett) was a very tough opponent, and he gave me the best tight I ever had. I tried to slow him down and get to the body, but he was moving around the ring pretty well," said Manfredy. 
Nonetheless, Manfredy held on to win a unanimous decision. 
Two-time defending 255­pound champ Brian Shannon pummeled Dave Prinzivalli, who was weakened by strep throat, on the way to his third consecu­tive championship. Prinzivalli came out strong, but tired midway through the first round and took a tremendous beating. Prinzivalli managed to finish the fight, but Shannon won by unanimous decision. 
In the 144-pound division, de­fending champ Doug Biolchini once again took his 10 stitches into the ring, this time against Lee Whitman, who controlled the early parts of the bout. But Biolchini's superior stamina showed in the end, and he came back for a unanimous victory. 
"(Whitman) came out strong," praised Biolchini. "The guy's a good boxer with a lot of heart. I think my stamina helped a lot, though. I still felt good, I had something left at the end of the fight." 
Controversy surrounded the 
see BENGALS I page 13 
''I'm sure a lot of people thought we would lose by 30," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "And I'm sure when we had the lead. ev­erybody thought we'd blow it. But those are the things we've been working on." 
When the Irish took a big second-half lead against Missouri, they turned it into show time instead of fold time. 
And this show had many stars. 
Daimon Sweet and LaPhonso Ellis dunking early in the half, Kevin Ellery hitting the trifecta, Scott Paddock putting in rebound baskets and left-handed hooks. Keith Robinson scoring from inside and outside, Tim Singleton dunking twice including a reversal after one of his game-high four steals and Monty Williams slamming the alley-oop home to give Singleton one of his game-high eight assists. 
"It felt like we  were in practice out there,"  
Singleton said.  
see IRISH/ page 15  







