
VOL XXIII NO 103 TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Elections result in runoffs; Shinnick wins 
By SANDRA WIEGAND cent of the juniors' votes, and Assistant News Editor • Co-ed housing?/ page 4 the Coffey ticket received 35 

THE 1990 CLASS ELECTIONS 
U.S. won't make deal for hostages' release from Iran 



percent. 

In class elm:tions, character­''I'm very happy with ized by elosn competition. the Patrick Mixon, Dave Cathcart, tonight's results. We're going winning snnior class ticket led Robin Stumpf and Molly O'Neill to work real hard and hope for 
TheThe 

by Mi!-h;wl Shinnick, presidnnt, and the ticket of Lynn Ramsay, the best in the run-off on 
Junior

Sophomore

was thn only orw to claim more Scott Boehnen, Greg Butrus Wednesday," Switzer said. 
Class


Class

than 50 pPrcnnt of thn votes in and Jenny Witt. "We're happy to be where we 
any class. The Shinnick ticket. which are now and we'll be hitting the Tlw othPr senior class offi­ran against only one competi­dorms tomorrow and cam­rPrs arP DPnnis Lynch. vice­tor, captured approximately 58 paigning," said Coffey. 
60
pn~sidPnt. Molly Grunewald, percent of the senior class "We've had a lot of support smTI'tary, and Jnnnifnr Linting. votes. so far and all we need is a final trnasurPr. "We're extremely happy and push to put us over the top," he 
HunofTs will bP hPid Wednes­grateful to everyone who sup­added. day to Plnrt junior and sopho­ported us. We're excited and Voting for sophomore class morP class ofTicPrs. Contending looking forward to next year. offices was extremely competi­for junior class officP, in the We hope to do a lot to make tive across the board, with ordPr of prPsident. vicn pn~si­next year the best year for our votes spread out within a range dent. SP<TPtary and tn~asun~r. class." Shinnick said. of 8 to approximately 18 per­arn tlw ticket of John Coffey. "We'd like to thank everyone cent for various tickets. Brian Murphy. Kristin Gafvnrt who turned out and voted," he The Mixon ticket received the and JuliP Hobnrtson and the said. highest percentage of sopho­tirkPt of JPnnifnr Svv"itznr, St1wn Voting was very competitive more votes. approximately 18 llanson. !\1pgan Wnyf'rs and between the junior class candi­percent. With about 17 percent Tim Thorton. dates who will partieipate in 
Contnnding for sophomore the run-off. The Switzer ticket 
see ELECTION I page 4 

class o!Tire arP the ticket of received approximately 38 per-
The Senior Class 
57.89% 

WASIII'JGTON (AP) -The ment," he said. 'They have told 
Asked what the administra­March 16, 1985. Whitn !louse said Monday that us what they are doing, they 
tion said to intermediaries who Speculation about their re­there are no grounds for ex­have asked us for advice. 
want to work on the hostages' lease has been fueled by a spatepecting thP imminent release of "When all this comes out behalf, Fitzwater said: "We of stories about contacts in the 
American hostages in Lebanon, later, I don't want it said they give them our policy and we Middle East about the though "there is a lot happen­were working for the U.S. gov­say, 'No deals. If you can be hostages.
ing" in behind-the-scenes ef­ernment. ... They've gotten ad­helpful, fine, but keep in mind, For example, a Syrian source forts. vice and comments and so this is our policy-no deal."' said Mahmoud Hashemi, a se­White !louse press secretary forth, so there is a lot happen­nior Iranian envoy, met SundayMarlin Fitzwater said many ing. 
Fitzwater told reporters that in Damascus with Farouk ai­people -excluding U.S. gov­"I don't want to be discour­if the United States becomes in­Sharaa, Syria's foreign minis­ernmPnt officials -are in­aging," he said. "I want to be volved in talks about the ter, "to coordinate efforts be­volved in discussions around encouraging. We want as many hostages: "We'll try to keep you tween the governments of Syria the world on behalf of the people to be helping on this as informed of talks. I suspect and Iran to gain the release of hostagPs. possible." Marlin Fitzwater they would be public, but you all the hostages."
The int!mnediaries include However. Fitzwater empha­
So far, he said, Iran has not never know." The source said Hashemi, the businessmen, diplomats of sized that the United States shown any interest. Eighteen Westerners are be­brother of Iranian President othf~r countries. representatives "will make no concessions in ing held in Lebanon. They in­Hashemi Rafsanjani, had ar­
of the hostage families and 
return for the hostages' re­Iran is believed to exert con­clude eight Americans, four rived from Beirut, where he met their employers and people who lease." siderable influence over Britons, two West Germans, with senior Shiite Moslem fig­have contacts in Iran and Le­"We cannot say that there is Hezbollah, an umbrella group two Swiss, an Irishman and an ures on the hostage issue. banon, he said. any movement," he said. "We of Shiites believed to hold some Italian. Most are believed held 
Often. they represent them­know of no imminent release." of the Americans in Lebanon. by Shiite Moslem factions loyal Another source said.: "This 
selves as representing the Fitzwater underscored that 
to Iran. appears to be a serious effort,United States, "but that is not the United States is ready to The longest-held is Terry An­
Fitzwater said that no U.S. the first in some time, to end the case," Fitzwater said. talk directly with Iran about government officials were derson, chief Middle East cor­the hostage ordeal. ... But I"Many of them have had con­the hostages "whenever Iran is respondent for The Associated
speaking with Iran about the don't think we'll see anyone out 
tacts with the U.S. govern-ready to do so." hostages. Press. who was kidnapped tomorrow.'' 
Salvadoran says American money finances war, death 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
Peace will come to El Sal­vador only when its government begins honest negotiations with opposition parties, a represen­tative of a Salvadoran opposi­tion party said Monday. 
Gladis Sibrian, a representa­tive of the Farabundo Marti Front for National Liberation and the Democratic Revolu­tionary Front (FMLN/FDR), Gladis Sibrian also called for the U.S. gov­democratic government. ernment to stop sending eco­"All that they (the govern­nomic aid to the Salvadoran ment) know is genocide." she government. said. 
Sibrian said that "It is only In her Monday lecture, with money from the U.S. that "Prospects for Peace in El Sal­our war continues." vador," Sibrian said that four 
She called the current gov­things are necessary for the ernment of Alfredo Christiani conflict in El Salvador to end. "a military dictatorship with The first is a cease-fire between St. ~dw~rd's sophom?re Ch~p Fortson c~sts his vote in Monday's class election as seniors Kevin Flynn and the face of democracy." She the armed forces and the rebelDav1d Mitchell superv1se. Th1s process Will have to be repeated Wednesday as neither sophomore nor junior said that the people of El Sal­tickets achieved a majority of the votes. 
vador have never had a truly see SIBRIAN! page 7 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, March 6,1990 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Education not just 'exercise of the mind' 
My four years of higher education at a liberal arts college are almost over. All the hours of study will soon be memo­ries. I can't say that I'm very sad to see 

them go, as there Christine Gill 
have been stressful 
moments in the past Saint Mary's Editor 
four years when I 
would have walked away from it all, if I'd 
had somewhere to go. 
After all, why was I going to college? To 
get an education, yes, but more importantly, 
to have a good job, a career, when I was 
through. This is the view many people take 
of college and there is nothing wrong with 
wanting to have a successful life. 
Imagine my surprise as I began studying a 
work, eommenting on the idea of a univer­
sity, that says that a liberal education con­
sists of exercises of mind, of reason and of 
relleetion. No mention of a job there. This 
work, by John Henry Newman goes on to 
say that there is a difference between liberal 
knowledge and useful knowledge and that 
those who use it in one way are not likely to 
use it in the other. So basically, I was being 
told that my business major was "useful" 
and "vocational" and therefore not relevant 
to a real liberal education. Yet, the more I 
thought about Mr. Newman's nineteenth 
eentury view. the more it seemed that he 
was correct and that somewhere in the last 
two hundred years or so, liberal education 
has bt~eome "lost." 
Knowledge should be an end in itself, ac­
cording to Newman's definition of liberal 
education. !low much of what we learn is 
for the more sake of knowing it, not bncause 
it is part of an assignment or for a paper or 
project? Colleges arc structured, with certain college, departmental and major credit requirements, lnaving littln room to take dasses that don't necessarily apply to your major, but you would enjoy taking. There is hardly the time left, after assign­ments and the extracurricular activities, to further explore something that interests you. Most often, onct.~ the semester is over, tlw intnrnst is replacP.d by new classP.s and assignments. 
There is the option of taking tlw courses that don't fulfill any "purpose" -those nlu­sivc elnctives-but for many people this would throw off thP.ir four-year schedule and cause extra semesters to bP. spP.nt in school. Not many people want to or can af­ford, literally or figuratively, to stay in school any longer than absolutely necessary. 
Where docs this leave liberal education? Learning does go on in liberal arts colleges, howevt~r I think Mr. Newman would be upset to sec that a changing world has turned it into "useful" learning rather than just an "exercise of the mind." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PO. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239·7471 
Today's Staff: 
Production 
Greg Tice 
Paige A. Smoron Ad Design
Jeanne Blasi 
Joe Zadrozny Val Poleno 
Terri Walsh Anita Covelli Mary Sain Jeanne Naylor Joy Harris
Systems Nl!ws Gilbert Gomez 
Sports
Monica Yant Tim Quinn Scott Brutocao 
Kev Ryan 
Maureen Welligan 
Viewpoint Graphics Kathleen Walsh Bradford J. Boehm Becky Pichler 
__________lisa E;aton 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduct1on 
nghts are reserved 


WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 6. 
Yesterday's high: 33 Yesterday's low: 30 Nation's high: 88 (Presidio, Tx.) Nation's low: -12 (Warroad, Minn.) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy today with a chance of morning flur­ries, highs in the middle 30s. Cloudy tonight, lows in the middle 20s. Cloudy and warmer Wednesday with a 30 percent chance of rain, highs 40 to 45. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
The Notre Dame Orchestra's Jerome Hoberman,

As part of the Lenten Series there will be a Liturgy conductor, will present a concert at 8 p.m. tonight in and Reflection in the Pangborn Chapel at 10 p.m. Washington Hall. The concert will feature music from tonight. "Rosamunde" by Schubert and "Concerto for Oboe and 
Violin" and "Brandenburg Concerto No. 6" by Bach. 
WORLD 

South Africa sent troops into the black homeland of Ciskei on Monday to quell widespread looting and arson following a military coup that ousted thn territory's au­thoritarian president. Brig. Gen. Oupa Gqozo of the Ciskni army, who seiznd power Sunday, told cheering supporters the African National Congress and other anti-aparthP.id groups would be allowed to operate freely und11r his nnw governmnnt. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's Likud party gav1~ conditional approval Monday to U.S. propos­~ls for peace talks with Palestinians. But nnw romplira­twns arosn when lnadnrs in tlw occupiNl lands said Palestin_ians in the terr.i~orit~s will serw on a delegation to talks With Israel only If the PLO chooses it. lsnwl insists the Palestine Liberation Organization havt\ no role in peace negotiations. and hawks in Shamir's ronsPrvatiw Likud bloc oppose U.S. elTorts to arrange talks with thP 
Palestinians. 

NATIONAL 
Lee Atwater, Republican National Chairman, was hospitalized Monday for observation after collapsing dur­ing a speech. A spokeswoman said initial tests were in­conclusive and that he would remain in the hospital overnight. Leslie Goodman, press secretary for the Republican National Committee, said Atwater had quickly regained consciousness after he fainted and keeled over as he was delivering a breakfast speech to a group of GOP contributors. 
Academic fraud is as old as education itself, but studies indicate about 20 percent to 30 percent of stu­dents cheat, and the figure is apparently rising. College administrators say the incidence of cheating is troubling but not inexplicable, given the "make it" mentality of the 1980s. Getting ahead any way you know how is sometimes perceived as part of playing the game of survival, college administrators said. 
INDIANA 

Rescue workers, using sledgehammers, crowbars and mallets chipped out a path Monday and were able to free Aaron Howell sixteen hours after he fell 30 feet in a Monroe County cave. He 
was  rushed  to  Bloomington Hospital and  was  
treated for head injuries and fractured ribs.  His  
condition is listed as stable.  

Indiana House Bill 1424, sponsored by Rep. Stanley Jones, D-West Lafayette, would create a state-funded scholarship program for low-income students who live up to a pledge made in the eighth grade to finish high school and re­main free of drugs and alcohol. The Senate ver­sion of bill was approved by a 89-11 margin in the House and will go to the governor. 
A Harvard University study releaspd Monday stated that teachers who spend tlw last minuw of nwry dass asking students for a quick summary of what tlwy had just learned substantially improve tlw !'lass's education. The "mw-minute, low-tPch, no-cost" tnchniqw' is among several recommendations of' the thn\n-year study of undergraduate education. A professor at llar­vard's Graduate School of Education and Kemwdy School of Government said he found stud11nts prnfern~d demanding courses and learned tlw most from teachers who gavn substantial. imnwdiatt~ feedback. 
The National Union of the Homeless said Mon· day it had seizPd at least five vacant, governmPnt-owned houses in Philadelphia as part of a national protest against housing policies. State Department of llousing and Urban Development spokP.sman Bill Glavin said agency officials knew only of two seizures in Philadelphia and were checking reports of another in Alt~xandria, Va. The union wants a number of changes in national policies toward the plight of the ;. mcless. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for March 2, 1990 
Volume in shares 
140.11 Million 
NYSE Index 
184.15 0 .82 
S&P Composite 
333.74 0 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,649.55 0 10.81 

Precious Metals Gold '[} $1.2 to $406.60/ oz. Silver{'! 1¢ to $5.116/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On March6: e In 1836: The Alamo in San Antonio fell to Mexican forces 
after a 13-day siege. All187 de­fenders of the mission com­pound -including Davy Crock­ett and James Bowie -were killed. e In 1857: The U.S. Supreme Court held that Dred Scott, a slave, could not sue for his freedom in a federal court. e In 1933: A nationwide bank holiday declared by President Franklin D. Roosevelt went into effect. 
e In 1944: U.S. bombers staged a daylight raid against Berlin during World War II. 

-----~ ~---------.~----~----------~------------------------------~------------------------------------------------·~~------------------­
Tuesday, March 6, 1990 The Observer page 3 
'Best Buddies' seeks student friends for mentally handicapped 
By JOHN CRONIN The job entails publicity and severely handicapped, Smith gan Center, none have the same era! membership will be taken News Writer providing the overall leadership said. one on one relationship that next fall, she said. 
for the Notre Dame/Saint "Our purpose is twofold. On Best Buddies would provide, 
The Center for Social Con­cerns is currently trying to im­plement two chapters of the Best Buddies program, an or­ganization which matches up college students with the men­tally handicapped, at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The CSC is looking for two students to fill the positions of Chapter Director for each school by the end of March so that the program can start in the fall, according to Kasey Smith, Midwest regional direc­tor. 
Snowy Saints 
Mary's chapters. The people se­lected will be flown to Pepper­dine University in California for a leadership conference from May 17-20. 
The philosophy of Best Bud­dies is geared more towards developing one on one social relationships rather than ther­apeutic rehabilitation, said Kathy Royer, coordinator for student/social action groups at the CSC. Students will be work­ing with the mildly retarded as opposed to caring for the 
The Observer/John Cluver 


The statue of St. Edward, in front of St. Edward's Hall, overlooks the University in the midst of a surprise snowstorm on Monday. 

( The Copy Shop ) 
~ ~ 
coPIEs coPIEs
in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center 

~ ~ 
coPIES Phone (219) 239-8138 FAX (219) 239-8139 coPIES 
c~;s HIGH-SPEED COPYING c~;f· 
COPIES COPIES 
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES
HIGH-QUALITY RESUMES 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES

FAX SERVICE

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES
LAMINATING 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES


SPIRAL BINDING

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES

COLOR PRINTING 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES

COMPUTER DISKS

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES

TRANSPARENCIES 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES



CONYEMENC£111
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES
Men-Thur Friday Saturday Sunday6¢ 7:30AM-11 PM 7:30AM-7PM noon-6PM noon-11 PM c!~s
COPIES 
6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES COPIII6 COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES 
one hand we want to give the people with developmental dis­abilities a one on one special relationship with a peer who is outside of their sphere. On the other hand, we want to give college students the opportu­nity to serve this community and to understand them (the mentally retarded) a little bet­ter, dissolving any previous misconceptions," said Smith. 
Although there are programs through the esc that coordi­nate student's work at the Lo-said Royer. 

The time commitment to Best Buddies is similar to that of the Big Brothers organization. A minimum of two individual out­ings a month, in addition to the occasional group functions, is required of those who take part in Best Buddies, said Smith. 
Best Buddies is initially limit­ing the participation to only 25 students per chapter in order to maintain the special rela­tionships. Applications for gen­
"The atmosphere at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is very conducive to an organi­zation like Best Buddies. Notre Dame is unusual in that very few schools have as strong of an awareness and such a ser­vice minded population," added Smith. 
Best Buddies was founded at Georgetown University in 1987 by Anthony Kennedy Shriver and since then the organization has spread to over 30 colleges and universities across the country. 
U.S. notes future of Europe in '92 
By COLLEEN GANNON News Writer 
Last year will go down in his­tory as a year of abrupt change, said the Right Honor­able Shirley Williams, a former British politician. 
Williams pointed out that there have been many fault lines or discontinuities in his­tory, like the French Revolution in 1789. "When we look back, we are going to see 1989 as a discontinuity of this kind, a sudden break with all that was before and a change to all that is going to be," she said in her lecture titled "Europe: A Conti­nent in Turmoil. 
According to Williams, the simple challenge presented by the Cold War has greatly bene­fitted the U.S. "Our politics have, for 50 years now, been shaped by a threat from out­side." 
The division made between the European World at Yalta in 1944 has provided the border between East and West for the last 45 years. Williams said there will be "an astonishing disillusionment of all our cer­tainties as a result of the year 1989." 
Williams said the phrase, "widening or deepening," lies at the heart of national worries today. "In the middle eighties, the community turned from widening to deepening." A deci­sion to have a complete com­mon market by 1992 was the first major step towards this deepening. 

Although the U.S. basically ig­nored the Western European Community through the eight­ies, today endless conferences are held in this country about the future of Europe in 1992. 
The European Common Mar­ket will be "a blending of a free market economy with a basic welfare state," based on the European community's decision to implement a model of free market economy different from that of the U.S. 
"The frightening thing about the transition (in Europe}," Williams said, "is that the first couple of years are likely to lead to a sudden drop in the standard of living before the force of the market and the forces of competition pick up the slack." 
A difficult dilemma will be de­ciding between deepening the community or moving away from that deepening toward a widening of the community, she said. 
The unification of Germany is "not the union of two indepen­dent countries," but more "like a corporation takeover," she said. The nature of the problem lies in the exchange rate. If the exchange rate is one to one, "the savings, the investments and all the rest of East Ger­many are almost worthless." 
The upcoming German elec­tion will present another prob­lem that will be difficult to re­solve. 
President George Bush has spoken of turning NATO into a type of corporation structure·in answer to these problems. Williams said she does not see this way out, because NATO is primarily a military, not politi­cal, alliance. 
"When there is no threat, why do we spend billions of billions of dollars in order to maintain a powerful force against it?" She said the world needs a structure that will last longer than NATO. 
Williams concluded with an argument in favor of the "concept of mutual nonaggres­sion act between the United States and the Soviet Union." 
Williams, a former British politician, now teaches at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Between 1964 and 1984, her political career in­cluded the posts of Parliamen­tary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, Minister of State at the Home Office, Secretary of State for Education and Science, and Paymaster-Gen­eral. 
Williams co-founded the So­
cial Democratic Party. She be­
came the first president of this 
party and the first Social 
Democrat elected to Parlia­
ment. 
The lecture on Friday, March 2 was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and Notre Dame's Committee for European Stud­ies. 

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOJR LIFE 
American Heart Association 
CLUB MEETINGS 
for the week of 3/5/90 
·The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus will hold a regular business meeting on Tuesday, March 6, at 7 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus Hall. 
·The Sailing Club will hold a meeting on Tuesday, March 6, at 6:30p.m. in room 204 O'Shaughnessey to discuss plans for the Freshman Icebreaker Regatta. 
·The Marketing Club will hold an informational meeting for the election of new officers on Wednesday, March 9, at 7 
p.m. in room 220 Hayes-Healy. 

A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
. ' one's game." fident now."
..............................................., 
Should priests be required to be Celibate? 

ICEBERG DEBATES 
:• 

CEBERG DEBAJES
i :

FINAL ROUND
i •
BREEN-PHILLIPS vs. PANGBORN
• 
WEDNESDAY 9:00 pm 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
* $500 to the Winning Team* 
There will be a reception following 
................................................ 
Monday. 
Almost 70 percent of fresh­men, sophomores and juniors who answered said they would live in a co-ed dorm if they had the option, and over 62 percent would favor their own dormi­tory becoming co-ed. 
Male dorms with the highest percentage of residents favor­ing conversion of their own dorm to co-ed were Flanner and Grace. Female dorms with the highest percentage were Lewis and Pasquerilla West. 
In Flannnr, 171 residents said they were in favor of their dorm becoming co-ed. and only 38 said they would not favor the change. In Lewis, 115 resi­dents favored their dorm bl~­eoming co-ed, and 51 did not. 
"The Board of Trustees wanted a gauge (of student support for co-ed housing)," said Matt Breslin, student body 
president. "Here is their ed, with 49 percent voting in 
gauge." 
"The implications are rela­tively dear," said Tom Hask, class election chairman, "the administration's defense has always been that the most diffi­eulty would be in choosing a dorm. Students have proven that tradition can still reign with eo-ed dorms." 
"The administration can't run from the truth," Hask said. 
The segment of the ND popu­lation that most favored co­residentiality for their own dorms was male freshmen, al­most 66 pnreent of whom voted favor of it. 
Over sixty-seven percent of freshman women did favor op­tional co-ed housing, however, and over 54 percent said'they would live in a co-ed dormitory if they had the option. 
Hesponse to the referendum was high, Hask said, 2,999 stu­dents responded to the question asking if they were in favor of co-ed housing, 3,017 responded to the question asking if they would live in a co-ed dorm, and 2,964 responded to the ques­tion of whether they would fa-
would you live in a co-ed dormitory? 

for it. Freshman females least favored their halls turning co-
The Observer/ Bradford J. Boehm 
vor their own dorm becoming co-ed. 
"These results show the rna­turity of the campus toward the referendum," Rask said, "We can effectively use referendums in the future." 
Co-residential housing will be the Student Senate's "big pro­ject" now, said Breslin. 
"We're going to put 100 per­cent into it," he said. 
Breslin said a formal pro­posal would be presented to Father David Tyson and Stu­dent Affairs, and to Father Ed­
ward Malloy after spring break. In May it will most likely be presented to the Board of Trustees also he said. 

All that jazz 
AP Photo 

Jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald is welcomed by Police Constable Steve Hutt as she arrives at a studio to open a 24-hour jazz broadcasting radio station in London on Sunday. 




Electt•on 
continued from page 1 
of the votes, the Hamsay ticket had the second highest percent­age. 
''I'm quite surprised and ex­cited," Hamsay said, "For the runoff it's still basieally any­
""I'm happy with the support we've received from other can-dictates who arn not in thn
ff" "d c h 1 · 
runo . sa1 at cart. w 1o IS on the Mixon tieket, running for vice president. 
"''m confident about the runoff," he said. "It was diffi­r.ult to get a f<wl for support with snven tickets. but I'm eon­

~ 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




---------~------..----­
Tuesday, March 6, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Senate passes bill of student rights, administrative limits 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
A bill of University and Stu­dent Relations, outlining basic student rights and responsibili­ties and the University's role in honoring them, was passed unanimously by the Student Se­nate on Monday. 
Briefly summarized, the bill included the following points: 
•A student has a right to due process. The accused must be presumed innocent until proven guilty, and be provided with the same rights guaranteed by the U.S. judicial system. 
•A 
student has the right to be judged by his peers. Students should comprise at least one half of the panel at administra­tive hearings. The following hall offenses will be handled by the hall judicial boar, violations of intra-dormitory rules, and first offenses of University conduct violations in which the community affected is more significantly the dorm than that of the University. 

•A 
student has the right to an open hearing. A closed hearing should be permitted if the stu­


dent requests it. 
•The 
University has the re­sponsibility to a public disclo­sure of all administrative hear­ings. The parties involved must remain nameless. 

•Students 
have the right not to be collectively punished. Col­lective punishment often tar­gets students who were not di­rectly involved in an incident. 

•Students 
have a right to a free and uncensored press. This right should be applied to all officially sanctioned University publications. 


•A student has the right to 

carry on individual or orga­
nized activity which expresses 
any opinion regarding the Uni­
versity and/or society. 
Megan Hines, executive coor­dinator of the Legal Depart­ment of Student Government, and Matt Breslin, student body president, drew up the pro­posal. 
Hines stressed that the bill is intended to benefit both the students and the NO adminis­tration, as it promotes "collective responsibility" by students, despite banning col­lective punishment. 
The bill requires that students 
be considered responsible 
adults in the same way admin­
istrators consider themselves 
responsible adults, she said. 
Hines hopes the bill will eventu­
ally be a preamble to DuLac. 
" ... students, as members of 
the Notre Dame community, 
should have a real, and not 
phony, role in all aspects of the 
(NO) community: intellectual, 
spiritual, and social," said a 
philosophical statement pre­
sented with the bill. 

The bill will be discussed at Campus Life Council . 
~

Speech team places 2nd at state 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Speech Team recently participated in the Indiana State Championship tournament and took second place overall in Sweepstakes (total high scores). 
Twelve Notre Dame students participated in the ten-team tournament, according to Mike Sayer. assistant to Director Nancy Wallace. 
Notre Dame students won the following awards: Extemporaneous speaking: 
•Rob 
Hennings, first place, varsity; 

•Terry 
Coyne, second place, varsity; 


Informative: lace,varsity; 

•Jennifer Finn. first place, 
novice; Dramatic Interpretation: 
•Joe 
Wilson, second place, varsity; first place, novice; 

•James 
Suttle, second place, 


Prose:  
•Joe  Wilson,  third  place,  
varsity;  
Poetry:  
•Joe  Wilson,  second  place,  
varsity;  
•Keith  McCoy,  third  place,  
novice;  

novice; Dramatic Duet: 
•Niobe Joseph and Trent Haywood, third place, novice; 
"We were very ecstatic," said Sayer. He said last year only two students participated in the State Championships. 

The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 
The State Tournament took place Feb. 24, at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind. 
At the tournament, six students qualified for the national tournament which will take place at the University of Mankato in Mankato, Minn. Thirteen NO students and a Saint Mary's student in all will participate in the nationals this year, Sayer said. Last year two students from NO participated. 
The following students will participate in the national tournament: Terry Coyne; James Suttle; Keith McCoy; John McKee; Niobe Joseph; Trent Haywood; Mary Roetzer SMC; Sonia Miller; Mike Sayer; Amy Wandstrat; Rob Hennings; Joe Wilson; Jennifer Finn. 
ftAmerican Heart'V'Association 

Unlocked rooms play victim to jewelry, monetary thefts 

By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 
Jewelry and money were stolen from several unlocked rooms in men's residence halls last weekend, accord­ing to Chuck Hurley, assis­tant director of Notre Dame Security. 
Three incidents of jewelry theft occurred in Grace Hall over the weekend. One 14k gold ring, one class ring, and one 1990 Orange Bowl ring were stolen from residents of Grace whose 
rooms  were  unlocked,  
Hurley said.  
In  Morrissey  Hall,  four  

residents had cash stolen from their rooms last weekend. 
Security has no suspects in any of the cases, he said. 

In an unrelated incident Security apprehended a stu~ dent who vandalized the ROTC Building early in the morning on Feb. 28, Hurley

said. 
The student had painted the word 'war' on the build­ing's roof. Security investi­gated the incident, identified the student, and handed the case over to Student Affairs, he explained. 
Hurley said he advises stu­dents to lock their rooms whenever they leave them unattended. Although "we realize that students are pretty trusting of other stu­dents," it is possible the thiefs are not students, but outsiders taking advantage of the unlocked rooms. 
Ca111pus Ministry and You 

@v1PUS

----------------------M.INISW 


Lenten Thoughts 
Alms: 'The rich have no more the Kingdom of Heaven than they have purchased by their alms." ­John Donne 
Atonement "Jesus alone can make atonement because he is the atonement -the at-one-ment between God and us." -Conville ffrench-Beytagh 
Confession: Come, now again thy woes impart, Tell all thy sorrows, all thy sin: We cannot heal the throbbing heart, Till we discern the wounds within. ­George Crabbe 
Conversion: "When I was in sin the sight of lepers nauseated me beyond measure; then God himself led me into their company, and I had pity on them; what had previously nauseated me became a source of spiritual and physical consolation." -Francis of Assisi 
Cross: "I have lived with the conviction that unearned suffering is redemptive. There are some who still find the cross a stumbling block, others consider it foolishness. But I am more convinced than ever that it is the power of God to social and individual salvation." -Martin Luther King 
Death: "Death is the flowering of life, the consummation of union with God." -Abbe de Tourville 
Desert: 'The desert bears the sign of our complete helplessness as we can do nothing to subsist alone and by ourselves, and we thus discover our weakness and the necessity of seeking help and strength in God." ­Rene Voillaume 
Desire: "If we go down into ourselves we find that we possess exactly what we desire."-Simone Weil 
Fasting: This is the kind of fast I require: to loose the fetters of injustic~, to untie the knots of the yoke, and set free those who are oppressed, tearing off every yoke. It is the sharing your food with the hungry taking the homeless poor into your house, clothing the naked when you meet them and never evading a duty to your kinsfolk.­Isaiah 
Forgiveness: "It is by forgiving that one is forgiven." -Mother Teresa 
Fulfillment: "The time is fulfilled; the kingdom is at hand."-Matthew 
Journey: 'The longest journey is the journey within." ­Dag Hammarskjold • 
Justice: "True peace is not merely the absencl 'Jf tension; it is the presence of justice." -Martin Luther 
King 

Kingdom: 'The kingdom of God is within you." ­Luke 
Liberation: 'The God we know through the bible is a liberating God, a God who destroys myths and alienations, a God who intervenes in history to break down the structures of injustice and who raises up prophets to point the way to justice and mercy. It is the god who frees slaves, makes empires fall and lifts up the oppressed." -Bolivia, 1970. 
Love: "To love another person is to see the face of God." -Victor Hugo 
Meditation: "Meditation is not the means to an end; it is both the means and the end." -Krishnamurti 
Peace: "Peace comes not by establishing a calm outward setting so much as by inwardly surrendering to whatever the setting." -Hubert van Zellar 
Petition: "I want to want to want you, God." ­Michael Ramsey 

Poverty: 'The worst poverty is the poverty of not having spiritual values." -Cardinal Basil Hume, OSB 
Prayer: "Give to the weary, visit the sick, support the poor; for this also is prayer." -Afrahat 
"Prayer is the sum of our relationship with God. We are what we pray. The degree of our faith is the degree of our prayer. Our ability to love is our ability to pray." -Carlo Carretta 
"Every Christian needs a half-hour of prayer every day, except when busy. Then we need a full hour."-St. Francis de Sales 

"Pray as you can, for prayer doesn't consist of thinking a great deal, but of loving a great deal." -St. Teresa of Avila 
"If you do not pray, everything can disappoint you by going wrong. If you do pray, everything can still go wrong, but not in a way that will disappoint you." ­
• Hubert van Zellar 

Reconciliation: "Some people think reconciliation is a soft option, that it means papering over the cracks. But the biblical meaning means looking facts in the fact and it can be very costly; it cost God the death of his own Son."-Desmond Tutu 
Redemption: "He became what we are that he might make us what he is." -St. Athanasius of Alexandria 
Brought to you WMidy by the Oftlce of Clmpua llnlstry 8nd 1be Observer 
---~ ~-----­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
Greyhound bus drivers' union seeks end to 4-day walkout 
DALLAS (AP) -The union representing striking Grey­hound bus drivers on Monday asked the eompany to return to the bargaining table to end the 4-day-old walkout against the United States' only nationwide bus system. 
In another development, sourees speaking on eondition of anonymity said Greyhound Lines Ine. was losing some of the drivers it had hired to re­plaee strikers. 
The strike has been marred by violenee and vandalism sinee 6,300 drivers and more than :~.000 office and maintenance workers walked out early Fri­day. Shots have been fired at buses, and a striking driver was killed Saturday when he was crushed by a bus baeking up to get around a pieket line. 
Union offieials on Monday sent a message to Greyhound Chairman Fred Currey request­ing a meeting with him as soon as possible. 
The message asked Currey to eontaet Ed Strait. president of the Amalgamated Couneil of Greyhound Loeal Unions. or Jim La Sala. international president of the Amalgamated Transit Union. 
Greyhound spokesman George Gravley said the eompany tried but failed to eontaet La Sala after reeeiving the request Monday, and is again awaiting word from the union. 
There have been no formal negotiations sinee talks broke off early Friday. Strait met briefly Friday night with P. An­thony Lannie, Greyhound's ex­eeutive viee president and ehief negotiator. 
At that point, Lannie said the union had no new proposals. Union spokesman Jeffrey Nel­son would not say Monday if the drivers had a revised offer to make to the eompany. 
The two sides entered negoti­ations last week far apart. The eompany said it eouldn't afford more than the $63 million con­traet it was offering. The union elaimed its offer was lower than management's, but the eompany valued that offer at more than $200 million. 
The eompany has been oper­ating with 700 replaeement drivers plus any union members who eross pieket lines. 

Currey said 350 union drivers are at work and the eompany is providing about 29 pereent of its normal serviee. The union says only 95 members have erossed pieket lines. 
Sources dose to the union daimed Monday that some re­plaeement drivers have walked off the job, induding 32 in the eompany's eentral region, whieh stretehes along the northern third of the eountry from just west of Pittsburgh to west of Denver. 
An internal message sent to some Greyhound offieials says the eompany is having to lower its level of serviee in the region partly due to the loss of newly hired drivers. 
Gravley said the ehange was foreed because not as many re­plaeements were hired for that area as had been expected, and did not reflect defeetions. 
"There have been a few of them that have left," Grey­hound spokesman he said, "and we are not surprised by that. They knew what they were get­ting into. These people were re­cruited and they were told hon­estly and forthrightly ... the na­ture of the work. 
"We told them that there could be times when they might be intimidated." 
There have been several inci­dents of strikers pounding the sides of buses as they erossed picket lines. 





Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.) Then get ready to take off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. throughjanuary 1991 on all Nonhwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
American Express and Nonhwest Nonhwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. travel privileges on Nonhwest-exclusively cenificates and other cenificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­and personal service you would expect from OF lWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many when you enroll in Nonhwest's WorldPerks® American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Nonhwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for 
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER
Each cenificate is good for a six-month the Card. And stan packing!
IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL.
period, and they will arrive within six 
just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­
weeks after you receive the Card. Current 
AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your
Cardmembers will automatically receive 
application and begin to process it

their $118 cenificates by March 15, 1990 
immediately. (If you have your banking 
provided they are still full time students~ 
information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help Membership Has Its Privileges• 
APPLY TODAY 


1-800-942-AMEX 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 


0 If you an: aln:ady a student American Expn:ss Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Expn:ss, PO. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fan: is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickers must be purchased within 24 hours after making n:servations. Fan:s are nonn:fundable and no itinerary changes may be made: after purchase. Sears at thi$ fan: an: limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available ber:ween cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. Ciry fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other n:strictions may apply. For complete offer derails, calii-80Q..942·AMEX. C>!990 American Expn:ss Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 

The Observer page 7 
Reformers win in Soviet election 
MOSCOW (AP) -Candidates Gorbachev. The runoffs are ex­Election Commission. who want faster reform won pected in two weeks. Narodny Rukh members said elections across the nation's In Washington, State De­the movement's leader, poet Slavic heartland and Boris partment spokesman Margaret Ivan Drach, was elected in the Yeltsin easily gained a legisla­Tutweiler said Monday that, first round along with several tive seat in the Russian repub­"While, for the most part, these other prominent activists. lic, unofficial returns indicated were not multiparty elections, Zyanon Paznyak, leader of Monday. there were, nonetheless, many the Byelorussian People's 
Yeltsin has said he will seek hotly contested, competitive re­Front, got 59 percent of the the presidency of the republic, gional and local races, offering vote in his Minsk district, said which traditionally means a voters a clear choice of candi­spokesman Victor Ivashkevich. place on the Communist Party's dates and ideologies. He said activist candidates ap­ruling Politburo. That could re­"This represents an impor­peared to have carried cities turn the Communist maverick tant and, indeed, historic step but party "apparatchiks," in­to the membership he lost in forward in the process of de­cluding Byelorussian party February 1988 for advocating mocratization in the Soviet chief Yefrem Sokolov, won ru­speedier change. Union," she said. ral districts. 
Leaders of popular move­Defeat of old guard local In Leningrad, Bella Kurkova, ments in the Ukraine and Communist leaders probably controversial commentator of Byelorussia, an outspoken tele­would help Gorbachev's liberal­the television program "Fifth vision commentator in Len­ization. He has railed against Wheel," appeared to be the only ingrad and a defiant editor in functionaries who hamper re­first-round winner, said IMA Moscow also appeared to have form, and people hoping to ex­Press, an official youth news won in Sunday's local and re­ercise new economic freedoms agency. public elections. have told of crippling obstacles "Fifth Wheel" is a public af­
"We're so happy! Such suc­erected by local party officials. fairs program that includes cess!" said Irina Rozhenko of Ukraine party chief Vladimir long segments about politics the Ukrainian pro-democracy Ivashko, considered a moderate and such social problems as movement Narodny Rukh. protege of Gorbachev, qualified crime and poor living condi­
Byelorussia, the Ukraine and for a runoff against an oppo­tions. the vast Russian republic ac­nent backed by the Narodny count for 80 percent of the So­Rukh pro-democracy group. Vi­Despite Leningrad's reputa­viet Union and more than two­taly Vorotnikov, president of tion as a conservative bastion, thirds of its 290 million people. the Russian republic, defeated a pro-democracy candidates 
Most of the 1,800 contests lone opponent in the city of dominated the elections, said for seats in the legislatures of Krasnodar, winning 71.3 per­Yelena Velinskaya, editor of the three republics remained cent of the votes cast. IMA Press. She said only two of undecided, with no candidate Both are members of the about 150 candidates sup­getting the required majority. Politburo. ported by the ultra-right na­State TV said fewer than 15 Preliminary figures showed tionalist group Pamyat survived percent were resolved in the Yeltsin, who has said he will the first round. Russian republic. challenge Vorotnikov for the 
Activists said strong show­republic presidency, got 72 per­Vladislav Starkov, editor of ings in this round nearly guar­cent of the vote in his district of the country's most popular
AP Photo 
anteed victories in runoff elec­Sverdlovsk in the Ural Moun­newspaper, Arguments and 
Raisa Gorbachev, wife of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, has her 
tions for candidates who want tains. He defeated 11 other Facts, was reported the winner 
granddaughter, Oksana, cast her ballot for her Sunday at a Moscow to step up the pace of reforms candidates, said Anatoly Moi­
of a seat to the Russian repub­
polling station. Soviets are voting for local councils and republic par­begun by President Mikhail seyev of the Russian Federation lir,'s parliament. liaments. 
ing the recent election of Vic­
Sibrian 

between the government andtoria Chamorro to the presi­the rebels. "We have nothing to
continued from page 1 

dency in Nicaragua, Sibrian lose."
forces. "We must stop the cap­

said, "if the Salvadoran people Sibrian said that the FMLN
tures, the killings,. and the dis­

go through the same process. will not concede to the Chris­
HAPPY 
appearances," she said. 

they won't elect Christiani." tiani government. "The FMLN
Sibrian also called for what 

The last thing that Sibrian will continue until we see
she referred to as the

BIRTHDAY called for is the end of U.S. aid changes in the political, eco­
"cleansing of the armed 

to the Christiani government. nomic and military structures
forces." She said that democ­

She said that the government in the country." 
BABEl II 
racy in El Salvador would be 

would change its ways if "they 
FROM, JOFUS, 
impossible without the reduc­In this regard, Sibrian said tion in the armed forces and don't see money coming in." that the U.S. could play a key the dissolving of the security Referring to the 10-year his­role in establishing changes in forces. tory of American aid to El Sal­El Salvador, but only if it stops vador, Sibrain said "That policy sending funds to the Christiani
She also requested that the

JACK, FRANK, 
FMLN, which she joined in has failed." government. "How many more However. she said that none
1989, be allowed to participate thousands of El Salvadorans
JIM &BERNIE . Qf these can occur without the have to die to show that this is
in the national elections sched­

opening of serious negotiations not the solution?"
uled to take place in 1991. Cit-

Ainerican Red Cross 





Notre Dame 
©rnlOLMJ~ ®lf@[F)[F)~rnl® 
ME 

IT'S BREAK TIME HOMEWARD BOUND 
~ 
§ 1. Stow your prized possessions Microwave out of sight--in a closet, locked trunk, Computer
~ 
or campus storage--or take them home. Iron
~ 
Popcorn popper 
~ 
§ 2. Be sure to lock windows and doors. Coffee pot Before you leave-double check. 
~ 
5. Don't forget your friends, be they ~ s 3. Own a bicycle? Take it home or lock 
Feathered
§~' it to a stationary object in your room. 
Furry Finny
~ 4. Unplug those basic necessities­Foliated
~ 
TV 6. Anyone you know staying around? Ask 
Stereo them to keep an eye on your place while 
Refrigerator (clean it out first!) you're gone. 


288-STOP 
The Colleges of Arts & Letters and Business Administration 
proudly present: 
Joseph Pichler President &Chief Executive Officer, Kroger Company 
speaking on 

"Ethics and Business" 
\ 
'\. 
\ ' ' 

Wednesday, March 7 
4:30p.m. \ \ 
Library Auditorium 







Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, March 6, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager.. . .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager. .......... Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr .. Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor . Enc Ba1ley OTS Director . . .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne Gill Controller . . ............... Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the ondependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the adm1nostrat10n of e1ther Institution The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of the majority of the following. Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managing Ed1tor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communoty and the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 

LETTERS 

Anti-white prejudices revealed in director Spike Lee's movie journal 
Dear Editor: street when they see him [Radio Americans from the violence of to blast his "box" in the pizze­did not have to show the drugs 
In his column, "Institutional Haheem] coming" ridicules other African-Americans. Lee's ria; he did not leave or turn it (it is his movie) but to call his Hacism Hestrains Minorities". whites for fear, although, judg­protrayal of the "racist police" ofT when asked to do so several portrayal "reality" is to ad­(The Observer, Feb. 26), Eric ing from Haheem's violence (Mr. Silk's words) is obviously times. After Sal forcefully vance a falsehood. Silk refers to "a rather absurd against Sal, fear of him is justi­one-sided and divorced from turned off the "box" by smash­remark made by a gentleman." fied. reality, yet Mr. Silk calls the ing it with a bat, Raheem tried What Spike Lee did (and here I was the gentleman who made Lee even stoops to using the portrayal "well-balanced." to kill him. Sal was well within Mr. Silk is correct) is to show a that "absurd" remark. I will derogatory term "white boys" his rights; Raheem was well wide "spectrum" of African­stand by my assertion that in his journal. The tone of Spike Some of Mr. Silk's observa­within his thuggish nature. Americans in a community. In Spike Lee holds anti-white prej­Lee's journal is plainly anti­tions make me wonder whether About those controversial pic­this, Spike Lee shows his ge­udice, and I will stand by my white. It seems to him that a he saw the same movie that I tures; Sal had the right to put nius. In spite of the fact that I assertion that Lee inaccurately white power structure is in­did. His descriptions of Radio up whomsoever he pleases, and believe that Spike Lee is preju­portrayed New York City police variably out to get him in par­Raheem are ill-chosen, to say those who do not like it are free diced, credit must be given officers. ticular and blacks in general. the least. He calls him to boycott Sal. where credit is due. 
I will begin with my con­Now, I will deal with my sec­"confused" when anti-social tention that Spike Lee is preju­ond assertion. Lee does inaccu­would be more apt. He says Finally, Mr. Silk asserts that I think that Mr. Silk ought to diced. When one reads Spike rately portray New York City "to his credit, he (Spike Lee) think a bit more before he la­Lee's movie journal, it quickly police officers. He states in his that he "goes about achieving shows us reality." I have al­bels ideas as "absurd." He becomes obvious that he always journal, "We see the two cops justice through the wrong ready shown how Lee did not ought also to support his capitalizes the word "black". in this scene throughout the means." There is no mention of accurately portray the police. statements about absurdity and he never capitalizes the film. They are probably cor­his obstreperousness, his vio­Unfortunately, the Bed-Stuy after he makes them. word "white." This may seem rupt, crack dealers themselves." lence against Sal or his rude­that Lee shows us is not reality. innocuous, but imagine the (Spike sure paints with a wide ness and loutishness. Where are the drugs? I have Sean P. O'Brien commotion if a white author brush.) seen Bed-Stuy; it is full of Off-Campus were to do the same, except In the movie itself, New York Raheem did not have the right drugs. Now Spike Lee certainly Feb. 26, 1990 that he switched the choice of police officers are clearly por­
capitalization. trayed in an undeserved nega­Judicial principles withstand demands of rape '(ictims Lee's journal also contains tive fashion. They are shown as 
,

Dear Editor: criminals will no longer go free 
many inflammatory statements a monolithic (white) power rape be denied the protection of 
In her article (The Observer, due to "technicalities."
about Ed Koch, former mayor structure that egregiously kills the "innocent until proven
Feb. 26) Kristin Komyatte These commentators fail to
of New York City. He asserts young African-American men. guilty" principle. However. she
vividly describes the plight of understand the harm that
that Ed Koch "is one of the Nothing could be further from does not see that without this 
rape victims who must relive would be caused by the removal 
main reasons why race rela­the truth: the New York City principle the suffering of raw~
the trauma of their rapes dur­of such legal protections. If, as
tions are so strained in New Police Dept. is multi-racial, victims who testify in court
ing courtroom testimony in Ms. Komyatte wishes, the bur­
York. " Not only is that an un­with an African-American as its would be replaced by the
order to put their rapists be­den of proof in criminal trials
fair charge, but it ignores black boss. While police brutality greater suffering of innoclmt
hind bars. Unfortunately, her was transferred from the ac­
demagogues, such as AI does occur, it is rather rare, people being convicted of rape
solution to the problem would cuser to the accused, it is cer­
Sharpton, Sonny Carson and and it pales in comparison to because they could not amass
do far more harm than good. tain that many people would be
others who have done much to the brutality cops must endure. the documentary evidence to
Ms. Komyatte proposes that convicted of crimes they did not
fan the flames of racial antag­New York City police officers support their innocence. Like it
a man accused of rape should commit based on flimsy cir­
onism. are overwhelmingly honest and or not, the good of society de­
have to establish his innocence cumstantial evidence, because
Lee is so quick to attack a decent men and women. In fact, mands that accus1~d rapists de­
in order to be acquitted of the they could not prove their inno­
white mayor (who was right­if it were not for the police in serve thn same rights under tlw
crime. This proposal conflicts cence beyond a reasonable
fully insulted by Jesse .Jackson's the real Bed-Stuy, the forces of law as are afforded to all ac­
with the basic American judicial doubt. Americans would live in
choice of the word lawlessness and chaos would cused criminals. 
principle that all people are in­fear of being sent to prison for
"llymietown" to describe New rack that community worse Although her frustration and
nocent until proven guilty. Ms. crimes they had nothing to do
York City) while conspicuously than it does now. New York sorrow for the plight of rape
Komyatte thinks this legal with, and would set up elabo­
ignoring the role of those hate­City police officers do not "take victims is understandable, they
principle is "a mistake." Her rate surveillance procedures
filled black demagogues. the life of an African-American do not justify her outrageous
view has been shared by many that could document their inno­
Lee's statement that "Larry youth at the first chance they proposal.
other commentators who, in cence if they were ever unjustlyBird is a contemporary white get." 
the aftermath of heinous accused of a crime.
American icon" is insulting to In fact, many New York City Michael !·icholl 
crimes, have proposed that Ms. Komyatte may feel the
whites. Lee's description of police officers risk their lives Keenan llaff
such trivial points of Jaw special nature of rape man­
"white people cross[ingl the daily to protect African-Feb. 26. 1990
should be repealed so that dates that those accused of 
DOONESBURY 
OKAY, THAT IUA5
... DAB~ YOU CAN 

71-'b f)()()RSI AN{)
f,/6HTMY f/1/Re/ YOU'!<& U5TE3NING 
WNPR's
j)LJ f 'UT&'N' 
eA5Y 
RiXJ<."I
/ . 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
St/Y, WANNA KNOW 

tuHY {)(}N/ YOU {)(}N/
WHO YOU ARU OUR 

YOUJU5T UNO&RSTAND­
TAR6eT AUOI/3Na 15 

'31AJITCH I /,.11<£; THIS
/,/5Te/?AS ''25 70 54N.' 

5TATIONS~ MUSIC!
CATOI THE3 70PCNI/ ?' 

I 
I 
CO't11NGUP,
54 YeARS OtJ)/ PlAY 
A SQ'Vt3R&­
70 60, 0/:J.':Z/;.K.-j,(t;AI/5! 
teA5eOA 
QUART&R.­

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Whoever admits that he is too busy to improve his methods has acknowledged himself to be at the end of his rope. And that is always the saddest predicament which anyone can get into.' 
J. Ogden Armour 

• 



Viewpoint

Tuesday, March 6. 1990 page 9 
Expression through writing gratifies the author 
By S. P. Udayakumar 
A friend of mine criticizes a piece of my writing and asks me not to write again. Calling me a "Catholic preacher, " an­other friend wonders if I have struck a deal with The Observer to get my articles published time and again. Some friends sarcastically hint in their con­versation with me that I don't have anything else to do. Although I respect their right to speak what they think, and regard their honesty and straightforwardness quite highly, I have to answer them in the way they don't seem to ap­preciate. 
I write because it helps me overcome my sense of helpless­ness and the feeling of alien­ation. When some intolerable happenings, unacceptable thoughts or ideas anger me, I do feel like yelling at that per­son or people concerned. That violent action would only lead to more violence and for no reason. Writing is a nonviolent way of expressing my anger and dissension. As I am equally responsible for all the ills in the world, I use writing to mend myself and my values. Writing helps me overcome my guilt and compunction. I am not trying to teach, but to think for myself. 
Who wouldn't welcome a brief recess and watch the play of waves while rowing all day long in a deep sea? Who wouldn't enjoy a few counts of 
deep  breath  under  the  coot  
shadow of a  tree in  an  oasis  
during  their  long  journey  

through a dreary, hot, lonely desert? Who wouldn't appreci­ate mouthfuls of ice-cold water while struggling to scale a steep mountain. I certainly would and do. 
Being an insignificant indi­vidual, I want to feel that I be­long; I want to be part of this world and its movement. I love to look around, watch, observe 
'Irs amazing how our living, powerful eyes, hearts and souls miser­ably fail to achieve what a few words of our writing can easily do.' 
and say aloud what I think and feel. I invest a few hours and earn some gratific-ation; the reader invests a few minutes and gets some recreation. We don't meet each other, kill time, bore one another, but we do communicate. The effort mixes primitiveness and modernity, love and invisibility, time and eternity. 
I see a fabulously beautiful young woman; my eyes hug hers, I peep into her heart, touch her soul and become one with her. We grin at each other and go away. I brood day and night over her pretty face, gor­geous smile, elegant walk, grace and beauty. Alas, all is in vain. I put my thoughts and feelings in black and white in a postcard and so does she in re­sponse. It's amazing how our living, powerful eyes, hearts and souls miserably fail to achieve what a few words of our writing can easily do. 

I like to see my name and creation in print, as a husband and wife relish to see their "creation" laugh and walk and carry their names and spirit to places and faces unknown to themselves. 
Writing helps me overcome the inherent shortcomings of my species. I am mortal, but I can taste immortality by writ­ing. I can transcend the cosmic plan and contemplate my own insignificant part in it. I touch the sun and the moon with my two hands while my feet are firmly placed on the earth. I fly and float and sing in the sky. I can breathe deeply; yes, writing is breathing for me. 
Prophet Mohammed said: "Pen and ink are mightier than sword and blood." When we think of those who fought with the sword and spilled blood, we call it history, forget about it, and move on. Those who toiled with pen and ink touched our head and heart and soul. We call their work wisdom and art and carry it with us. 
I would still marvel in the house of the masters of great penpersonship and try to do what they have done in my own humble way. To grow is the yearning in everyone. The little successes make me proceed. As a stumbling child tries again and again and then walks per­fectly, I want to walk and hop and run toward perfection whether or not I will eventually reach my goal. 
S. P. Udayakumar is a gradu­ate student in the Institute for International Peace Studies. 

LETTERS 

Ordination question deserves coherent arguments from its opposition 
Dear Editor: connection between this ramble 
Where does one begin to re­and the ordination of women, spond to Father Robert the link of free association may Griffin's recent column (Feb. be in the call of the Committee 
23) on women's ordination? for Notre Dame's Position of Because the column is less a the Ordination of Women coherent argument than a free (CNDPOW) that the University associating and anecdotal drop the Eucharist from the ramble, I will begin with an opening liturgy of the year. If anecdote of my own. this is the case then Griffin 
A few years ago my wife and I (along with a host of writers in noticed that Griffin. in a column the Observer's letters column) on poetry, referred to Emily misses the point that the Dickinson by her first name CNDPOW's call makes sense and the other poets (all men) by only insofar as its members their last names. Hoping to value the Eucharist. Why else persuade Griffin to drop an un­would the Committee ask that consciously sexist practice, but once a year (in a service not at­women's ordination and "be regardless of gender, then denied the sacrament of min­not wishing to embarrass him, tended by students, by the way) their friend." Those who fail where does the fault of politi-istry?" we wrote to him privately. the Eucharist not be shared. Griffin's unarticulated test of cizing the process lie? While Griffin may not enjoy There may· be a deeper and reasonableness are judged to The arguments for the ordi­Having met and spoken with "handling the flock roughly," more ominous connection be­be politically self-interested. nations of women are not polit­many people who think that the we never received the courtesy tween the issue of the ordina­There are ironies here. ical or self-seeking. time has come for the ordina­of a private response to a pri­tion of women and the threat of Griffin wrings his hands over Benedictine prioress Joan tion of women, I would like to vate letter. Instead, to our pizza liturgies and "doggie women's politicizing the issue Chittister has said that "When assure Griffin that they are,surprise, he responded with a treat" altar bread. Might it be of the ordination of women, but they baptize a woman, they like his classmates, "decent column, which began apologeti­that Griffin associates women he responds to the issue as a don't say, 'Now we pour this folk." Griffin worries that ad­cally but quickly turned un­with impurity? Why else dwell threat against him and his slightly diluted water on this vocates of women's ordination pleasant. By the end of the col­on degraded transformations school friends. He is bewil­slightly diluted creature who may be "digging a grave for the umn, it was us-against-them, of the Eucharist in a column on dered and pained that women will give us slightly diluted Church"; I believe that the the kind hearted old gent and women and the priesthood? might not realize that he en­Christianity-or ministry or Church is in more danger from priest against the shrill, nit­Somehow, in a manner that tered the ministry not to grab service-back.' . . . Either those who cling to an exclu­picking, and axe-grinding Griffin fails to articulate and power but to serve, but he has there's something wrong with sionary conception of the "professor" and his "little probably does not acknowledge no hesitance to ascribe selfish the present theology of min­priesthood without being able woman." Had we published a even to himself, pushy women and political motivations to istry, or there's something to articulate why. letter critical of Griffin in the are responsible for these women who experience the wrong with the present theol­Observer, we might have ex­outrages and would be respon­same call to service. If Griffin ogy of all the sacraments. If Stephen Fallon pected the reply that we got. sible for even greater ones were regards as threatening a call women qualify for baptism, Assistant Professor As it was, we were astonished. they to manage "to break up for the opening of the priest­confirmation, salvation, and Program ofLiberal Studies 
The recent column serves up that old gang of mine," become hood to all faithful Catholics, redemption, how can they be Feb. 27, 1990 the same unsavory stew, one priests, and thus "gain access part apology for a male-cen­to our religion's all-powerful Love for the Church fills women who seek ordination 
tered tradition as harmless and symbol." benevolent and two parts self­If Griffin has coherent argu­Dear Editor: grave for the Church," "trash Last week, for example, an interested and mean-spirited ments or theological reasons I have just finished reading the lifework of old priests," and undergraduate woman spoke of attack on those who question for opposing or delaying the Father Griffin's article on "shrill, unreasonable and ac­her deep love for the Church, of the male prerogative Griffin ordination of women, we are women priests (The Observer, cusatory" in reference to the her pain when she met people enjoys, this time triggered by a sure that everyone would like to Feb. 23), and at the risk of panels. who told her just to leave the poster publicizing a panel dis­hear them. But what he writes seeming to take on a member Every panel participant has Church. She spoke of her vision cussion on "Women Priests: sounds all too much like the of the "less gentle" sex, I must spoken from a position of love for a Church in which the loving History and Symbol." He sug­anxiety of the member of the respond. I am a member of the and concern for the Church. We ministry of women would be gests that those who call for all-male club who fears what Committee for Notre Dame's want our Church to be just and fully recognized and the ordination of women are will happen to the lodge meet­Position on the Ordination of all-encompassing, to represent empowered. I feel called to 
"willing to trash the lifework of ings if women are allowed to Women, which is responsible and to serve all persons. We public discussion of the ordina­old priests" like himself, but he join. for the panel discussion to believe in the Gospel message tion of women because I believe offers no arguments, coherent Griffin misunderstands sex­which Griffin refers. I was also that assures us that in Christ that we must speak in order to or otherwise, why this might be ism. How else could he write a participant in the first panel all differences which would di­bring about change, that our so. One finds instead disjointed that he and his fellow seminar­discussion entitled "Shouldn't vide us have disappeared. Our continued silence does not call reflections on a woman student ians, "decent lads" all, could the Roman Catholic Church panel discussions have explored our Church to conscience. It's 
who twenty years ago received not be chauvinists because they Also Ordain Women?" during Church history, theology, phi­n.ot always easy to speak, espe­the Eucharist while smoking, loved and respected their moth­which I spoke of my experience losophy, and experience in an Cially not for a woman at Notre 
beer and pizza liturgies, ana ers and sisters? However de­as a woman in the Catholic attempt to reveal where the Dame, where one is either silent 
homemade altar bread that re­cent Griffin is, he falls into the Church. Church has been and to open or "shrill." sembles "a doggie treat" after typical sexist traps of patroniz­Since I have not seen Griffin the way for where the Church going stale (Griffin approves of ing women and countering le­
at any of the events we might go. No one who has lis­
the Communion hosts gitimate opposition to the ex­sponsored, I am frankly sur­tened to us has found us "prepared in the covenant," by clusion of women as "shrill" 
prised at his responding so "shrill" or "accusatory". Nor in 
Teresa Godwin Phelps 

women who presumably know and "unreasonable." He assures speculatively to what has been any way have we "trashed" the 
Associate Professor of Law

their place in the Church). us that he is willing to listen to said and for bandying about work of priests, old or other­
Feb. 23, 1990

While there is no rational "reasonable" advocates of phrases such as "digging a wise. 

---~ ----~-·---._ 




Accent
page 10 Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
Kolisch hypnotizes Notre Dame 
JOHN FISCHER 
accent writer 

"I lovml it. It was mud1 better 
than 'Cats.' I'm going to see it 
again and again." 
While those in hypnotist .John Koliseh 's audiPnce may or may not eonw out of tlw show with this phrase on tlwir lips, it is widely aeknowlmlged that Koliseh is one of the world's premi1~re hypnotists. lie will display his talent on March 7 at Washington llall. 
Koliseh, a native of Vienna, Austria, was studying psychol­ogy at tlw Uniwrsity of Vienrut when he bnc<une internsted in hypnosis. Years of study in this linld have left him with the des­ignation of b1~ing thP "World's Fastest llypnotist." lin is able to hypnotize some people in just ten seconds. 
I lis act, which mixes humor with hypnotism, has appeared on the "Tonight Show" and the "Merv Grillin Show," among others. lie has also giwm pPr­formances on college campuses across the country and for eor­ponttions such as Exxon and IBM. The show has mPt with rave reviews everywhere it has gone . .Johnny Carson. after see­ing Kolisch in action. said, "(!lis) performance is one of the brightest and funniest in our profession today." 
Koliseh, a certified member of several hypnosis associations, demonstrates his powers through audhmee participation. Among the many mental feats he showcases are stage hypno­sis, posthypnotic suggestion, and even an experiment in ESP. Through all these demonstra­tions. Koliseh assures his vol­unteers that he will not seek to mnbarrass them, but to treat them with mspect while hypno­tized. 
Anyone can be hypnotized, even if"... it takes two or three times before you relax prop­erly." according to Kolisch. lie takes his hypnotized volunteers through some elementary exer­cises to exhibit the power of hypnotism. This power, how­ever, ean be limited, as he points out that no one can be forced to do anything against their morals while hypnotized. 
Hypnosis is also limited in that it is temporary. "There has never been a ease recorded of a hypnotized person failing to re­turn to normal." Kolisch says. 
While his main show focuses on the sometimes humorous re­sults of hypnotism, Kolisch also presents seminars on some of the more useful applications for human improvement. Noting that some physicians are now using hypnosis, Kolisch says that it is a viable method to use to conquer bad habits such as smoking. In his seminar, he instructs people how to use self-hypnosis to their benefit. 
The hypnotism seminar will take place at 3p.m. on March 8 at Theodore's and is free. The main show will be at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. on Wednesday, March 7, in Washington llall. Tickets for this show cost $2.00 for stu­dents and $3.00 otherwise, and are currently on sale at the Information Desk in Lafortune. 
,. ~-,., 
,, "' 
«: ,, ..
'* ~ ~~
.... 
lrl•~·-~~."'.•
.••.... 

Hypnotist John Kolisch will showcase his powers at Notre Dame this week. Kolisch gives an informative hypnosis seminar at 3 p.m. on Thursday in Theodore's. He will give two performances on Wednesday night at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Doug says to get ahaircut and enjoy spring break 
lan Mitchell 
Lion Taming 
My roommate Doug wants to become famous. Unlike most people. though, he doesn't plan to do it by making some famous discovery or great achievement. lie plans to infiltrate the English language itself. 
You know how people are always saying, "Well. you know what they say ..." after which thP.y quote some tired old saying like "the taller they are the harder they fall?" Well, Doug wants "they" to be replaced by his name. Let's see how this could work in everyday conversation. 
Sue: You cad! How could you even think of breaking up with me'!! 
Bill: Well, you know what Doug says: "There are plenty of other fish in the sea." 
Please do your part to spread this saying across the nation by using it as often as possible over spring vacation. As thou­sands of Notre Dame students work "Well, you know what Doug says" into casual conversation, others will copy them and the phase will soon be so hip that you'll see it on MTV. You'll be able to claim that you started a national fad. 
Remember: "Doug says"­learn it. live it, love it! 
* * * 


With Spring Break just ahead, my mind has begun to recall fondly those times when my family would vacation by travelling in a station wagon over long distances. Here's a completely fictional sample of what those good ol' times were like. 
Parental Unit: I'm warning you, if you don't start behaving yourself, I'll turn this car right around. I'm not kidding. You kids quiet down back there. 
ring out in the crowded 
automobiln, bringing a quick 
end to the witty repartne and 
heady argumentation.) So pnr­
haps I don't really miss those 
family ear trips all that much 
aftnr all. 
* * * 
I got a haircut recently. This, of course, gives me the opportunity to make some great grade school jokes: 
Him: Hey, did you get a haircut? Me: No, I got 'em all cut! (Uproarious Laughter.) 
But my hair is apparently of serious concern to some. People have begun to really take notice of my haircut. Here's how this works in real life. 
Her: Hey, did you get a haircut? 
Me: Yes. (Expecting her to reply with something like "Gee, it looks great.") 
Her: Oh. (Accompanied by a look with pitying eyes that clearly says, "That's okay, hats are in this year.") 
Now, the questions may vary ("What happened to you -lawnmower accident?"), but the basic concept is the same. I'm beginning to get the idea that perhaps my hair is not ex­actly the eighth fashion wonder of the world. All right. so I get some criticism. But hey, I'm not worried. After all, "beauty is only skin deep." 
At least, that's what Doug says. 
Kids: Are we there yet? 
As the adults steadfastly refused to admit they were lost, the kids began to amuse themselves by expressing their sibling rivalry in various unap­proved and antisocial manners. 
Sally: Mom, Bobby lit my doll on fire! 
Bobby: Did not! 
Sally: Did too! 
Mother (trying unsuccessfully to distract them): Now kids, just take a look at that beautiful 

scenery. Bobby: Did not! Did not! Sally: Did too! Did too! Bobby: Nuh-uh! Sally: Yes-huh! Mother (muttering in a low 
voice): Now, where did I pack 
that revolver? Bobby: Nuh-uh, nuh-uh! Sally: Yes-huh, yes-huh! Bobby: Nuh-uh times a 
thousand! Sally: Yes-huh times ... BLAM! BLAM! (Two shots 
--~~------~--~---~-~~----~------------~~--~--~~~~---------------------------­
Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The ND Cycling Club will be having a meeting Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 6:30 
p.m. in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Digger Phelps will react to recent critcism and discuss Irish basketball at 8 p.m. tonight on WVFi-AM 640 Sportstalk. Guests will include guard Joe Fredrick and Irish basketball radio commentator Jack Lorri. Join hosts Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormick at 239-6400. 
Notre Dame softball lost a doubleheader to Indiana Monday by scores of 7-3 and 4-0. Details will appear in WPdnesday's Observer. 
lnterhall ice hockey finals between Off-Campus and Dillon will be at 10:30 p.m. tonight at Ice Box on 1421 South Walnut Street. 
NVA needs baseball umpires. Sign up at the NVA office. 




Classifieds 
page 11
The Observer 

Pete Rose Jr. handles adversity 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Pete about his father's August, 1989 with Frederick, Md, a Class A Rose Jr., ever the optimist, says ban from baseball on gambling team. By mid-May, he was hit­there's a bright side to the life allegations. Rose Jr. says he ting .133 and had lost his spot time suspension given his fa also anticipates remarks from in the lineup. mous father. people who say his name, not "We asked an awful lot of 
"He'll get to see me play his skills, got him to pro ball. him to put him in Carolina more," said the 20-year-old ''I'm always going to hear it," League," Baltimore player per-Rose, who plays in the he said. "Guaranteed." sonnel director Doug Melvin Baltimore Orioles' minor But Rose, who reports March said. "That was an error in league system. "I hope he gets 12 to Miami for his second sea-judgment on our part." to see me play every game. I son as a minor leaguer, isn't "Ninety percent of the kids want to show him my apprecia worried. out of high school are going to tion for him. ''I'm ready to go," Rose said. struggle," said Roy Krasik, as­
"l want to say, 'Hey, dad, ''I'm a little bit bored. I'm sistant player development di­look what you did, you made ready to go down to spring rP.ctor. "It's a big adjustment, me into a great ballplayer.' He training and get started, then with travel and being away knows I'm a good player, but get the season under way." from home." I'd like to open his eyes more The younger Rose began his Rose reduced the problem to than I already have." pro career just as the investiga-baseball terms: "I had one 
The younger Rose expects to tion of his father's gambling problem, getting my hands hear hecklers this season came to a head last year. He started. And I wasn't playing along with more questions struggled in his rookie season every day. 
Is It True .... Jeeps tor $44 through the Government? Call tor facts! 1­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
For Sale: 1980 CAMARO $1200. 232-6085 
FOR RENT 

KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 4/5 bdrm, 2bth,turnished $600 ptmth 913 Leland X4420 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
2 STUDENT HOUSES. 6-7 
BDRMS. EACH. CALL CHUCK 
GLORE 232-1776. 
LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED. AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234-9364. 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
WALKING DISTANCE FROM 
ND 232-3616 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? 
2 bedroom furnished apt. 
available tor subleasing 
Call Now!!! 284-4070 
TUWNHOUSI:::v FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems. basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good lneighborhood.dishwasher 
L CALL 232 -8256 
--~~------------~~--------­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next~day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds mu ·.t be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Packaging, Copies. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL 
INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 
For a hot tip on where 
to find a good time Call 647·0900 ext 1740 St. Mary's Campus Events 
Hotline 

\ LOST/FOUND I 
Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue, with red stripes. Any info call Tom at 234-9728. REWARD 
LOST : Gold ring with Ruby. Great sentimental Value. Please. return to Nick , x5208 or 277-7236. Reward. 
FOUND: piece of jewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 during JPW. call John X1583 to identify 
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! A gold, Gruen watch with a smooth brown band in between Knott and St. Ed's. Call Brad at x1701. 
LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. High sentimental value .. ••••reward••••••••• Call Debbie #2935. 
LOST: Favorite pair of Ray Bans in tan case. If found, please return. Matt 271-9576 

WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer.Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free into. Write 
IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del 
Need ride home or close to home-­Atlanta; Thomasville,Ga.; or Tallahassee, Fla. (Southern GA) Can leave after 
2:30 Fri.,return by Sun night. Call Shonda X2551 
EX ND STAFFER AND WIFE DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR SUMMER, PREFERABLE IN MISHAWAKA. NON-SMOKERS, REFERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW DR., MULBERRY, FLA. 33860, OR PHONE (813) 425-4404. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Outstanding brother/sister sports camps -22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls -215-884-3326; boys -914-698­1833. 
ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F 10AM-4PM 255-8700 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
CAMPUS PAINTERS NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW 708/475-3439. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET· EVANSTON, IL 60201. 
ATTENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262. 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/YEAR INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602-838-8885 EXT. TV-6262. 
WANTED: 
POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED FOR HIGH-CALIBER BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR 3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL 
MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 
Need Ride to or near Pittsburgh 
2/8-9 $$ JoAnne 1270 
r----------------------~ 
SUMMER JOBS 
l 
can't remember for helping me through the early hours of 3/4. I'm 
Position Available Our carpet's not that...Oh, God, I 
can't believe I just said that." 

TICKETS 
feeling much better now. 

ALBS CATHOLIC SCHOOL PRINCIPAL 
Grades K-6 (118 students) COLLEEN RYAN (from For Sale: Round Trip ticket form 
Happy Birthday ELKHART): I want you, I need you, ­Chicago to San Antonio-Leaving LIZPODEN Applications available. I must cover your body in Miracle 3/9 P.M.-Return 3/18 you woman you! Write: Saint Patrick Parish Whip and lick every drop off in aCost: $100. Call Rob Re 1747. 
Love Capenda Office frenzy of unbridled passion. ........***********•* ..... PSYCHE! You lose. Here's your 
320 West Broadway Top Ten Quotes from the wild· Kokomo, IN 46901 damn personal, so get off myATTENTION FEMALE 
goose chase to Cocoa Beach to damn back!-John. 
TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
see Pat Mullane's dad off: (All correspondence will be kept FOR SALE: Spring Break 
10. Those girls are just asking for it. confidential) Celine: Happy Birthday! Too bad 
plane ticket to Ft.Lauderdale 
9. Duke: Get a picture of me in 
I'm a day late, but then again, you
BEST OFFER call Molly 
front of the Shuttle. were born a day late tor greatness.
@284-5410
........................ 8. The Shuttle is DEFINITELY Oh well, I guess YOU LOSE! Try 
going tonight. again next time-John 
7. Mario said the weather looks QUAD 0' LOVE: Thanks for a tun$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ good. 

birthday and a great year. I love Need Billy Joel Tickets!!!! 
6. The foam in the hot tub is you guys even though you're all Worse than you could believe!! 

caused by body oil. 

pennises. Even so, I'm hoping wePlease call #2030 or #4819!! 
5. Hey Joke, I bet you think your all sleep together next year. O.B.

Don't forget,$$$$$$$$$$!!!!!!!!! 
D s are pretty funny. Yeah, your Libby's aren't bad either. CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! 
4. I see you all found long pants. CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! 
3. I graduated first in my class at CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! 

I PERSONALS I 
Air Force Academy and I'm getting 
my Masters in physics at MIT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CATHY!!!!! 
2. That guy will forever be known ~ HAVE AN EXCELLENT DAY!!!!! 
Jenny D. 
as "cheese." LOVE,
Good Luck at Nationals!! From $1 OFF 
1. I can't help it that I'm a fir-ball YOUR SAGA AND KROGER 
your undeserving, insensitive 
Italian. I get it from my dad. I'm PARTNER
112" International I

friends of 4-North. 
proud of my heritage. •• T minus 31 and counting ... CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! 

I combO 

1 
CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! but Ice is nice 
Snow blows CATHY MEERE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!! 
(BUT SHE GOES TO THE CLUB save ferris 

Free Ddivery I 

GOING TO CINCINNATI3/9·10? ANYWAY!!)
expires 3/8190

Please take me with you!$$$ hiag Tanya x3688. Valentines 
... ---­

Mar, CA 92625. 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B340. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­8885. Ext. R.6262 
GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL 
DESPERATELY SEEKING A 
GOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE 
ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 
239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM. 
f:OUNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girts Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm/Bdllaundry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Chear1eading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, ~uHar. Gymnastics, Hockey, HO<Seback, Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes. Sailboarding, Sailing, Scu~ Soccer, Tennis, Track,WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: CBJ111 Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, :J.amaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAUREEN LONG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Mo iis 19 today so call her today and wish her a happy birthday. 
Mo. remember when: 
1. 
You skated around the ice skating rink with two left skates on? 

2. 
Your favorite jokes-the "Common Tater" ???? 

3. 
Have you ever stolen a can of Tuna????? 

4. 
How many syr's have you 


been to anyway? HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOl!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Stevey Megargee, 

Herre is your personal. I'm so looking forward to that lecture on the "Restructuring of Kroger's" tonight and, of course the passionate, romantic dinner at the dining hall afterwards. Aa my love.even though I can hardly compare to your TRUE love ........ 
love, me 
happy birthday to me 

To the big stud sitting at the ANE desk Sunday nite: you wore blue, but all I could see was red (the color of LUV). You ARE news, hot news at that. do-u-no-who-i-am? 
{p.s. only 4 days 'til "your day.") 
A special thanks to Jim, Bad Ben, Dave A., Dave H., Frank, Mark's dirty sock and the kind "nurse" wielding it, Grunko, the couch in 301, the Gatorade bottle, the two trash cans, and other people I 

Matt C: The walls are crumbling around you -ACN 
Monica M: I hope you had a good time on Saturday nite .. Hope we do it again soon.. MJF 
Kentucky coke addict, that 

white powdery stuff outside could 
be fun ...we'll see. The Texas Dealer RAMADA INN OF ELKHART has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call 219-262-1581. 
--.---.--.-..---.---;.---.---..---.--.---;-­
STUDENTS... 
JUST DO IT!!!!! 
Take advantage of student 
discounts on IBM PS/2's. 
Visit the ND Computer Store tor 
more details. 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS-CAN 
LEAVE 3-8 OR 3-9-DAVE X1808 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. Loving couple, both college teachers, unable to have children. Husband has adopted sisters. We are responsible, caring people 
·ready to share our love with a much wanted baby. Medical expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect anytime except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512. 
Top 5 reasons to go to an ND hockey game: 5 Free whistles and candy 4 Learn how a zamboni works 3 the mini-mites 2 Northwest puck shootout 1 You can play CHEXX all nile 
too bad the season's over 
SPRING BREAK 
DAYTONA 
$139 rm. only; $229 w. trans 
High quality accommadations 
call Todd 1-800-265-1799 

Andy, John, Mike, Dan & Bill Top 15 LeMans Formal Quotes: 15 Please get your feet out from under mine! 14 Andy's snoring could wake the dead! 13 Stupid Human Tricks-How high can you shoot the ice? 12 Kelly, Give me Five! 11 Honest, we were just talking (Right Suz) 10 Colleen, What were you thinking when you bought that dress? 9 Hey John, Let's do the pygmyr 8 Why do women go to the bathroom in groups? 7 Maryann, next time knock! 6 Would you like to swap chicken? 5 Didn't you know women can talk without using their mouths? 4 Excuse me, do we get dessert? 3 Carrie, have you ever had a ding dong? 2 Deep down you know you want it! 1 CHIVALRY LIVES!!! Thanks for a great time guys! Susan, Kelly, Colleen, Carrie, & Maryann 
The Top 10 Quotes from Milford: 
10. "Did you take a shower, Dave?" 
9. "It's still hard, Herbie." 
8. "Regis was tempted to respond in kind. You would have needed to turn on your windshield wipers." 
7. "A guy would lose his arm on one of these and he'd say, 'Oh, it's nothing-just a paper cut.'" 
6. "Ally, Herbie, I want to put your heads in this machine." 
5. "The Italian stump." 
4. "Does he give you the thumbs up, Tuts?" 
3. "It was more due to inexperience than anything else." 
2. "His lights are flashing. Should I pull over?" 
1. "No, that's not from last night. 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 381·5ga:;. Women call or write: CBJ111 READING BOOKS AT HOME. Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Ouxbury, MA CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B340. 02332 (617) 934-6536. _ 
·················--·····-·······-···-.-----------. 
RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA I FOR SALE \ 
FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELF DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL ­
CHRIS AT X4078 I have 1 ticket from O'Hare to Tampa for $238. It leaves on 3/10 and returns 3/17. If interested call x3772. 
Pardon me; I am seeking a goodly number of those darling little tank Pioneer CD player w/ remote. tops that read. "Drink like a Good condition. $75/BO-x1072 champion." Do call X3574. Patrick 
--~­
---~-~-­
r....-------~-·~··-----­
1 
I
I I I -
-


page 12 The Observer 

Big East seeding is all-important 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­Seeding is everything in the Big East Conference tournament. 
Which is why Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim was so relieved his Orangemen were able to defeat Georgetown on Sunday and earn the top seed for this year's tournament. 
"Now you only have to play teams you barely struggled by in the regular season," Boeheim said after his team's 89-87 overtime victory over the lloyas. "If we lost this game we would have dropped down to third and that's a tough way to go with these teams. 
"If Georgetown lost a coin flip they're in second and you're playing Providence. Providence and Georgetown is a tough one­two punch to take when you're in New York." 
Syracuse, Connecticut and· Georgetown are the Big East's Top 10 teams, with the Orangemen and surprising Huskies tying for the regular­season title at 12-4. Syracuse earned the top seeding via a tiebreaker. 
If the lluskiPs and Hoyas had tied-it would have happened with a Georgetown victory Sun­day-a coin nip would have 
Grace 
continued from page 20 

It is Llnlikely that any coach Notre DamP could hire will be abln to lun~ big-time recruits as well as Grace did. It may be a long time bf!fore a coach ar­rives at Notre Dame who can take the team to an NCAA tournament. 
Thnn again, as Boulac says, a college soccer coach needs to be more than a recruiter and a field tactician. The Athletic De­partment did not feel that Grace was organized enough off the field to continue running the program in the 1990s. 
Yet it still seems a shame that Grace's marvellous recruiting skills will go to waste. Couldn't there have been another solu­tion to the problem? Couldn't Notre Dame hire somebody to take care of Grace's office du­ties and allow him to coach soccer, which is what he does best? 
After all, two people will be hired to take his place anyway. 
This may not be a practical solution, but it seems that giv­ing Grace his walking papers isn't very reasonable either. Be­cause whether you like him or not, Dennis Grace a very tal­ented person. The University should not let him get away. 
Summl•rJot'to; Over 50.000 summer fOb opemngs at Resorts. Camps, Amusement Parks, Bus1nesses. CrUise L1nes. Ranches. and more 1n the U.S., Canada. Australia. and 20 other countries. Complete directory only $19.95. Don't wa1t till after f1nals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937  
~Spring Break ~ cANCuN $138 EB~t!J 7 NIGHT HOTEL PACKAGFS AVAILABLE FROM $129 CfiHCOH TOORS Mexico Tours since 1966­Member 888/IATA 602-271-0316 fi.lnll ooo_n~ 16  

been used since all the 
tiebreake-rs came out even. 
Connecticut and Georgetowrt (11-5 in the Big East) would meet in a Saturday semifinal if the Huskies beat Seton Hall and the lloyas top Providence on Friday. 
Syracuse, meanwhile, opPns with the winner of Thursday night's elimination game be­tween Pittsburgh and Boston College. The Orangemen could then find themselves in a semi­final against the winner of Fri­day's St. John's-Villanova game. 
The Huskies, picked to finish eighth in the coaches' presea­son poll, finished first for the first time in the conference's 11-year history, while the Orangemen added a fourth first-place finish. 
"What happened to us was a tremendous accomplishment, even I smiled," said Connecticut coaeh Jim Calhoun. 
Syracuse and Georgetown have been the dominant teams in conference play with only one of the 10 championship games not having either team in it. The lloyas have won six of the 10 tournaments and Syracuse has taken two. 
They looked like the best teams again on Sunday in a game Georgetown guard Dwayne Bryant called "one of the better games anyone's go­ing to see played this year." 
Boeheim praised both teams. 
"They played great because we played great the whole way," he said. "I thought we played as well as we could play and defensively I thought we played very well. It was a great game for everybody." 
Almost everybody. 

Georgetown coach John Thompson was ejected with 
2:14 left in the first half when he was assessed three technical fouls, the first for protesting a 
call  against Bryant  and  two  
more  for  stepping  onto  the  
court to continue arguing.  

"Basically what happened is that it's probably my fault more than the officials' fault," said Thompson, who left the court gesturing for more deri­sive cheering from the NCAA on-campus record crowd of 33,015. "I have respect for all three of them and have worked with them all before. I probably let my competitive juices flow and those of us who have com-
AP Photo 
Syracuse's Steven Thompson drives against Villanova's Tom Greis earlier this season. The Orangemen are the top seed in the Big East. 
peted understand that. I made builder," said Coleman, namnd a mistake and that's that." conference playt•r of the year 
The ejection still couldn't on Monday. "Especially when overshadow the game, the last you start :l-3 in the eonferenct! at home for Syracuse seniors and everybody is looking down Stephen Thompson and Derrick at you. We just kept in tlwre Coleman. and kept on battling to seP if 
"This is a momentum we could come back." 
Dean of Administration and Registrar 
• Registration for the 1990 fall semester will take place between March 26 and April 10. according to the following schedule: 
3/26/90-3/29/90 Senior/Grad Students/Law Students (level 8) 
3/30/90-4/ 4/90 Juniors/Grad Students/Law Students (level 7) 
4/5/90-4/10/90 Sophomores/Grad Students/Grad Business Students (levelS) 
• 
Appointments to use DART during this Registration period will be scheduled between 12 noon and 7 pm. The terminals in the Registrar's Office will be available during these times. 

• 
The unrestricted add/drop periods will be between 7 pm and 12 midnight, Monday-Friday, and between 10 am and 12 midnight Saturday and Sunday. Students can change their schedules at these times, without an appointment, after their DART appointment time. 

• 
DART books can be obtained from Department Offices, Deans' Offices and the Registrar's Office after Tuesday, March 6, 1990. check with you department for instructions on obtaining PINs. We cannot insure that changes of major requested between March 5 and April 10 can be processed. This may mean that you will have to wait until after April 10 to register for majors-only courses in your new major. 

• 
In addition to the regular course listing, the new DART book will also list courses according to the times the courses are offered. 

• 
The DART video will be shown for students who have not used DART in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Tuesday, March 20 and Wednesday, March 21. There will be three showings each evening: 6:30 pm, 7:15pm, and 8:00pm. 


Tuesday, March 6, 1990 The Observer page 13 
We're Fighting For Your Life. Possibility of Valvano's ­
Wish y~ur friends a Happy Birthday thr~ugh Observer advertising. 
ftAmeri_can Heart 


resignination explored
Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
V'Association 

Spring Break '90 

United Limo Hourly Service to O'Hare & Midway airports 
Departures from Notre Dame 
Leave  Arrive  Arrive  
Notre Dame  O'Hare Airport  Midway Airport  
Bus Shelter  Upper Level  All Airlines  
All Airlines  
Ph. 219-674-7000  Ph. 800-833-5555  Ph. 800-833-5555  
3:50AM  6:00AM  5:40AM  
4:50AM  7:00AM  6:40AM  
5:50AM  8:00AM  7:40AM  
6:50AM  9:00AM  8:40AM  
7:50AM  10:00 AM  9:40AM  
8:50AM  11 :oo AM  10:40 AM  
9:50AM  Noon  11:40 AM  
10:50 AM  1:00PM  12:40 PM  
11:50 AM  2:00PM  1:40PM  
12:50 PM  3:00PM  2:40PM  
1:50PM  4:00PM  3:40PM  
2:50PM  5:00PM  4:40PM  
3:50PM  6:00PM  5:40PM  
4:50PM  7:00PM  6:40PM  
5:50PM  8:00PM  7:40PM  
6:50PM  9:00PM  8:40PM  
SOUTH BEND  CHICAGO  CHICAGO  
TIME  TIME  TIME  

Departures from O'Hare 
Leave O'Hare Lower Level Term. 1 ­United Ph. 800-833-5555 6:50AM 7:50AM 8:50AM 9:50AM 10:50 AM 11:50 AM 12:50 PM 1:50PM 2:50PM 3:50PM 4:50PM 5:50PM 6:50PM 7:50PM 8:50PM 10:35 PM  Leave O'Hare Lower Level Restaurant Rotunda Ph. 800-833-5555 7:05AM 8:05AM 9:05AM 10:05 AM 11:05 AM 12:05 PM 1:05PM 2:05PM 3:05PM 4:05PM 5:05PM 6:05PM 7:05PM 8:05PM 9:05PM 10:50 PM  Leave Midway Airport Dollar Rent-A-Car Ph. 800-833-5555 T7:05AM T8:05 AM T9:05 AM T10:05 AM T11:05 AM T12:05 PM T1:05 PM T2:05 PM T3:05 PM T4:05 PM T5:05 PM T6:05 PM T7:05 PM T8:05 PM T9:05 PM T10:30 PM  
CHICAGO TIME  CHICAGO TIME  CHICAGO TIME  

T ·Carrier is Tri-State Coach Line. 
Reservations encouraged. 
674-7000 
United Limo 
We'll get you there. 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP)-Coach Jim Valvano's lawyer left North Carolina State Monday after proposing a contract buyout labeled as "very difficult" by one university official wrestling with allegations of point-shav­ing. 
Art Kaminsky, Valvano's at­torney and agent, returned to New York after discussions over the weekend with N.C. State officials of a possible buyout of Valvano's contract. Valvano has not been person­ally implicated in allegations that some of his players shaved points for money, but has come under fire to step down as head coach. 
Valvano said he had not met with school officials to discuss his contract on Monday. 
"I have not been involved in any discussions, and there weren't any today," he said, heading into practice Monday afternoon at Reynolds Coliseum. 
Junior guards Chris Corchiani and Rodney Monroe said N.C. State counsel Becky French met with Wolfpack players Monday, but they would not discuss the meeting. 
"That was just between the school and players," Corchiani said. 
He said he would consider leaving N.C. State if Valvano leaves. 
"I would definitely have to 
reevaluate my situation," 
Corchiani said. "You play for a 
university and you're used to its 
support. And when you see your 
coach not getting that kind of 
support, you wonder if it's all 
worth it." 
Calls for Valvano's dismissal 
began after ABC News reported 
last week that four players 
conspired to fix as many as 
four games during the 1987-88 
basketball season. That report 
came after an admission by 
former Wolfpack center 
Charles Shackleford that he ac­
cepted nearly $65,000 while a 
student, in violation of NCAA 
rules. 
Shackleford has denied any role in point-shaving. And Valvano insists he knew nothing of point-shaving or improper payments. 
"Mr. Kaminsky had come to Raleigh, requested to meet with the university officials concern­ing the possibility of Mr. Valvano's resignation, and he presented a proposal to the university which was very diffi­cult for us to respond to," said George Worsley, vice chancellor for business and finance. 
Valvano attended his team's practice Monday, but said only that he hasn't been involved in any discussions about his con­tract. 
Worsley would not say how much money Kaminsky pro­posed to settle Valvano's con­tract. The contract includes a buyout provision that requires the university to pay Valvano $500,000 if he is dismissed for anything short of a felony con­viction or a finding that he per­sonally was responsible for a major NCAA violation. 
Sources close to the negotia­tions said the school is legally obligated to pay Valvano $875,000 if he is fired or asked to step down, The Charlotte Observer reported Monday. Kaminsky has proposed a set­tlement of between $500,000 and $600,000 and that the school has offered $106,000, the coach's base salary for one year, the newspaper said. The newspaper also said Valvano is due $250,000 from a Wolfpack Club trust fund and a $125,000 annuity. 
Worsley would not comment on the report or say what amount would be acceptable to school officials. 
"The university has a very straightforward contract," he said. "I don't recall the con­tract mentioning any annuity ... (the $500,000 buyout) would only come about if Mr. Valvano is terminated. There's been no discussion with Mr. Kaminsky about terminating Mr. Valvano's contract." 
The contract allows Valvano to terminate it during the 30­day period after the regular basketball season ends. But it requires him to pay the school $500,000 if he leaves to coach in the NBA or at a Division I basketball program. 
Worsley said no further con­tract talks were scheduled with Kaminsky or Valvano. 
'Tm planning to go to the Atlantic Coast Conference tour­
nament,  and  Mr.  Valvano's  
planning  to  coach," Worsley  
said.  


page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
Gathers tragedv leaves mourne~s 
Nation in shock after basketball star collapses and d1es 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -While friends and relatives awaited the results of an autopsy, a teammate of Hank Gathers said Monday that the Loyola Marymount star had been dutifully taking his medication for a heart ailment. 
And a hospital statement said Gathers, who died Sunday. had been monitor1~d regularly since the heart problem was first discovernd in l>ecmnbnr. 
The 2:1-ymtr-old senior center from PhiladPiphia-one of the leading scorers in the nation­collapsed during a tournament playoll' game and died less than two hours later. 
Hob Dambacher of the Los Angeles coroner's office said results of the autopsy have been deferred pending the com­pletion of toxicology and tissue studies. "So there is no deter­mination yet as to the cause of death," he said. 
lie said the results probably will not be announced for a week to 10 days. 
Gathers was on medication for cardiac arrhythmia, which was discovered after he col­lapsed on the foul line Dec. I.J against UC-Santa Barbara. 
lie was tested extensively, then placed on medication be­fore being allowed to return to the lineup. lie ended up missing only two games. Gathers later convinced doctors to cut back on his medication, saying it made him sluggish, and said afterward that he could feel his body strength improving. 
Close friend and teammate Bo Kimble told reporters that Gathers "was taking his medi­cation." 
And Dr. Mason Weiss, the at­tending .cardiologist at Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital, where Gathers died, said: "As far as I know, everything was done to make sure that it was safe for him to play. And to the best of what medicine can do to predict these things, everything was correctly done. He was still taking his medication. He took it Sunday afternoon." 
Teammate Jeff Fryer said Gathers was so excited about playing Sunday that he did something out of character-he took a run around the track at Loyola. 
"We thought he was crazy," Fryer said of the 6-foot-7. 210­pound Gathers. "That was Hank. lie had never done that bPI'orn. lie was just pumped for the game. My locker's right next to his. lie told me and Terrell Lowery that he was go­ing to run on the track. We didn't believe him. Coach Westhead didn't know llank was out there. I'm not sure how far he ran. He usually jumps rope before a game." 
Daniel Freeman llospitals Inc., distributed the following statement at a Loyola news conference, after it was an­nounced that no medical ques­tions would be answered: 
"llank Gathers was evaluated at Daniel Freeman Memorial llospital after he passed out during a basketball game in December and underwent a rigorous battery of cardiology testing. A cardiac arrhythmia, a heart rhythm disturbance, was noted and treated with an anti-arrhythmic drug. His con­dition had been monitored on a regular basis since the December incident." 
Although Coach Paul Westhead said no decision had been made about whether the team would play in the NCAA tournament, Kimble, one of Gathers' high school playmates, said he wanted the No. 21 Lions to play as a tribute to their fallen star. 
The Lions won the West Coast Athletic Conference at 13-1 and earned the berth when the tournament was called off fol­lowing Gathers' death. 
Gathers collapsed at 5:14 
p.m. PST Sunday, about 6 1/2 minutes into Loyola's tourna­ment game against Portland. He was pronounced dead at 6:55p.m. 
"Hank and I were like broth­ers, we were so close," Kimble said. "We overcame so many obstaeles. He was up for every game. He gave 100 percent ev­ery time he played. 
"lie's one of the best people in the world," he said. "lie was always nice to everyone. I know he's listening. I just love him so much. I'm going to miss you, Hank." 
With that, Kimble couldn't go on, and was assisted from the podium. Later, after regaining his composure, Kimble was able to smile when he talked about Gathers and indicated strongly that the team would play in the NCAA tournament. 
"Oh yes, definitely, I'm sure we're going to play," said Kimble, who has succeeded Gathers this season as the na­tion's leading scorer. "We can turn a negative thing into a positive thing. We're going to be up for the challenge, we're going to dedicate this to Hank." 

'Sudden death' occurs too often in sports 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-When 23-year-old llank Gathers, the nation's leading scorer and re­bounder last season, collapsed and died on Sunday, his death was a shock. 
But it was hardly unusual­only the latest death in too long a list of athletes in top physical shape to die suddenly and often inexplicably. 
Among them: 
• Volleyball player Flo Hyman, the star of the 1984 
U.S. Olympic team, who died three years ago after collapsing in a match in Japan. She was 31. 
• 
Miami Dolphins linebacker Larry Gordon, who collapsed while jogging and died. He was 28. 

• 
World-class distance runner Jeff Drenth, who collapsed and died after a training run. He was 24. 

• 
Pete Maravich, former Louisiana State and NBA star, who died after collapsing dur­ing a pickup basketball game. He was 40. 


Perhaps the closest thing to Gathers' death occurred in the NFL on Oct. 24, 1971, when 28­year-old wide receiver Chuck Hughes of the Detroit Lions collapsed on the field after running a long pass pattern against the Chicago Bears. He died without regammg con­ciousness. 
Rut despite the similarity, doctors say there are a variety of reasons for such sudden tragedies. 
"The reason of sudden death in young athletes runs the ga­mut," said Dr. Mason Weiss of Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital. the attending cardiol­'lgist when Gathers died. 
'There are very different causes for these deaths." Weiss said such deaths are not uncommon, adding that, 
"There are reams of medical literature on sudden death." 
Hyman died from a rare con­genital disorder of connective tissue, called Marfan 's Syndrome. Gordon died in 1983 from an irregular heartbeat, as did Drenth, who died in 1985 and had a history of arrhyth­mia. 
Doctors said Maravich died from an undetected blockage to the heart. 
An in Hughes' case, patholo­gists said he had the heart of an elderly man, a condition that never had been detected in a physical examination. 
Gathers died of cardiac ar­rest, although the specific cause of his heart seizure won't be known until the results of an autopsy are in. 
Gathers, a 6-foot-7, 210­pounder, had been taking medi­ous battery of cardiology test­ing. A cardiac arrhythmia, a heart rhythm disturbance, was noted and treated with an anti­arrhythmic drug," said a statement released Monday by Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital. "His condition had been monitored on a regular basis since the December inci­dent." 
He seemed to return to full strength the first week in February, when he scored 44 points against St. Mary's. 
"As far as I know, everything was done to make sure that it was safe for him to play," Weiss said. 
"And to the best of what medicine can do to predict these things, everything was correctly done. He was still taking his medication. He took it Sunday afternoon." 


Jordan's Auto Mall 
609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka (219) 259-1981 


PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. lAP) ­
New York Mets outfielder Dar­
ryl Strawberry, admitting he 
has a problem with alcohol that 
required treatment, on Satur­
day said he is looking forward 
to playing baseball again. 
"Every day is a challenge," 
Strawberry said. "At this point 
now, I'm very happy with my­
self. I'm not so uptight about 
so many things as before. 
"J had so much pressure on 
me, I just didn't know which 
way to handle it." 
Strawberry, 27, was released Thursday from the Smithers Alcoholism and Treatment Cen­ter in New York after a 27-day stay. 
Accompanied by General Manager Frank Cashen to Sat­urday's press briefing at the Mets' spring training home at St. Lucie County Sports Com­plex, Strawberry said he is get­ting settled and preparing for the new season. 
''I'm getting new feelings about myself," he said. 
He was admitted to the treatment center after his Jan. 26 arrest when he allegedly threatened his wife, Lisa, with a gun. 
After an hour-long meeting Friday with Strawberry, the Los Angeles city attorneys in the Van Nuys, Calif., of'fice has reserved decision until this week whether to charge the ballplayer. If charged and con­victed on spousal battery and abuse, Strawberry could be sentenced up to a year in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
A spokesman for the Mets said Strawberry "has moved in" an undisclosed location in Port St. Lucie and "his family will be here this weekend." 
After Strawberry's release from the treatment center, he "visited with his family on Long Island (N.Y.)," the spokesman said. Then he flew to California for the hearing and on to Florida. 
In introducing him, Cashen 
said Strawberry wanted to 
make a statement on his own. 
"Everybody experiences it. 
but I had no control over it," 
Strawberry said of his prob­
lems with alcohol dependence. 
"I know I have to work hard on 
it -playing baseball again, 
getting on with my life. 
"It's a disease I have no con­
trol over. I'm looking forward 
to getting back with my wife 
and kids." 
Cashen said Strawberry "needs our help and our under­standing. 


is looking for a design major or an artistically inclined individual seeking practical experience to fill the following position: 
Graphics Editor 
• 
Responsible for composition of computer graphics for News, Sports and Accent pages 

•
Will gain valuable experience in Mac Draw and Adobe Illustrator and excellent portfolio material for future job or internship searches. 


A two-page application, a resume and any relevant work samples should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, March 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 


Tuesday, March 6, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Pro NBA action: Heat upset Jazz, Rockets defeat Spurs 

Heat 105, Jazz 104 
MIAMI (AP) -Glen Rice scored from the top of the key at the buzzer as the Miami Heat rallied from a nine-point deficit in the final 6:08 to beat Utah 105-104 Monday night, ending a seven-game winning streak by the Jazz. 
Rice scored after taking a feed from Sherman Douglas, who had rebounded a missed shot by teammate Scott Haffner. The victory was Miami's third in six games after the Heat had won just three of its previous 30. 
John Stockton's basket gave the Jazz a 104-100 lead with 34 seconds left, but the Heat an­swered four seconds later with a 3-point shot by Kevin Ed­wards, who scored 24 points. Stockton missed a layup with seven seconds left and Rice re­bounded to set up the winning basket. 
Rony Seikaly led Miami with 25 points. Douglas had 22 points and 14 assists. 
Olajuwon loses quadruple 
NEW YORK (AP) -Houston center Akeem Olajuwon will not be credited with a rare quadru­ple-double in a game against Golden State, NBA vice presi­dent Rod Thorn ruled Monday. 
Olajuwon, who had 29 points, 18 rebounds and 11 blocked shots in a 129-109 victory on Saturday, was originally cred­ited with nine assists in the ini­tial post-game boxscore. 
However, after members of the Rockets' staff reviewed video tapes of the game, they spotted what they thought was an uncredited assist for Olajuwon with less than six minutes remaining in the first 
quarter  on  Buck  Johnson's  
basket.  The  assist  total  was  
changed to 1 0.  

"A boxscore should not be changed after the fact for the purpose of achieving a statisti­cal milestone," Thorn said. "If an appreciable statistical change needs to be made after the boxscore is distributed. the league office is responsible for making the change if it is deemed necessary." 
Thorn said after reviewing ti)e footage of the play in ques­tion, an assist should not have been awarded. 
"This action," Thorn said, "is not intended to diminish in any way what was obviously a tremendous performance by one of the NBA's great play­ers." 
The NBA also announced Monday that Olajuwon has been named Player of the Week for the period ending Sunday. 
There have only been two recorded quadruple-doubles in NBA history. 
Nate Thurmond of Chicago was the first to accomplish a quadruple-double with 22 points, 14 rebounds, 13 assists and 12 blocked shots on Oct. 18, 1974. Alvin Robertson, then of San Antonio, had 20 points, 10 assists. 11 rebounds and 10 steals on Feb. 18, 1986 against Phoenix. 
Late in the fourth quarter of the runaway victory, Olajuwon had only nine blocks. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Assistant Production Managers 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
statement to Joe Zadrozny by 5 p.m. Friday, March 9. For further information, contact Joe Zadrozny at 239-7471. at 283-3128. 

TOWNHOUSES 
For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 

Karl Malone led Utah with 32 points. Stockton scored 21 points and had·14 assists. 
The Jazz took advantage of five consecutive Miami turnovers to score 13 straight points, the final six by Darrell Griffith, and open a 97-88 lead with 6:08 remaining. 
Douglas then scored six con­secutive points, and two free 
throws  by  Seikaly  reduced  
Utah's lead  to  102-100 with  
2:08 left.  

Rockets 109 
Spurs 105 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon scored 14 of his 37 points in the fourth quarter, including the go-ahead jumper with 39 seconds remaining, to lead the Houston Rockets to 109-105 victory Monday night over the San Antonio Spurs. 
Olajuwon's 15-foot fadeaway broke a tie at 105. Mitchell Wiggins added two free throws with 11 seconds left to give the Rockets their sixth victory in 30 road games this season. 
San Antonio, which had won four of its previous six games, was led by David Robinson with 29 points and Terry Cummings with 28. 


The Spurs led by 82-70 with 
2:26 left in the third quarter 
after  outscoring  the  Rockets  
39-24 in the period.  
But  Houston  used  a  10-2  

spurt midway through the fourth period to pull to 92-90 with 7:11 left. Olajuwon and Mike Woodson had four points apiece during the surge. 
San Antonio still led 101-98 with 3:13 left, but a 7-2 rally gave Houston a 105-103 lead with 1:39 to play. A jumper by Willie Anderson tied the game for San Antonio. 
Olajuwon scored 19 first-half points to help Houston take a 54-49 lead at the break. Olajuwon had a dozen second­quarter points as the Rockets outscored the Spurs 29-18 in the period. 
76ers 128 Clippers 105 Hersey Hawkins tied a sea­son-high with 28 points as the Philadelphia 76ers defeated Los Angeles 128-105 Monday night, handing the Clippers their 20th straight loss at the Spectrum. Philadelphia moved within a game of first-place New York in the Atlantic Division. The loss was the ninth in 11 games 
for Los Angeles. 
Mike Gminski scored 25 points for the 76ers, one shy of his season high. Charles Smith scored 22 points for the Clip­pers. 
The 76ers took command in the second quarter, moving from a 40-34 lead with a drive by Derek Smith and three jumpers by Gminski making it 48-36. The Clippers, who shot 59 percent in the first quarter, cooled off to 25 percent in the second. 
Gminski's 3-pointer with 3.7 seconds left gave the 76ers a 61-45 halftime lead, their biggest margin to that point. 
Philadelphia built the lead to 81-55 with 6:53 to go in the third quarter on a 3-pointer and a layup by Johnny 
Dawkins. The 76ers eventually 
led by as many as 31 points. 
Hawkins had given the 76ers 
a 30-28 lead with a followup at 
the first-quarter buzzer. The 
76ers took their first lead of 
the game at 22-20 with four 
minutes remaining in the quar­
ter on Ron Anderson's jumper 
during an 11-0 run over 3:37. 
The 76ers gave forward Rick 
Mahorn the night off to rest a 
bruised right elbow. 
Akeem Olajuwon of the Houston Rockets, one assist shy of having a "quadruple double," almost had the boxscore changed in his favor. He would have been the third person in history to get the quadruple double. 
SLOW DOWN! 
Please apply at the Student Activities Office. 

GETACTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

IDTRIIIAJIE 
JIC(;ITL/11 IJIISN 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 2n-6172, or call 239-7668 

page 16 The Observer 
Big Eight a dominating force 
OKLAIIOMA CITY (API -The change has been slow and it's far from com­plete. 
But overturning a tradition takes quite a bit of time and even chipping away at it takes a number of years. 
The signs arc there, however. They talk about blocked shots as well as blocked punts. People realize there are field goals that don't require a holder. 
The football-mad world of the Big Eight Conferenee has been forced to no­tire some pretty fair basketball teams. 
It's tough not to notiee three teams from the same league in the top live of the most recent poll. 
"I don't know if this has ever hap­pened in one of tlw lessnr conferences so it's great it's happening in the Big hght." said Oklahoma's Billy Tubbs. a man who ran afford to poke fun at the other major eonferenees since he knocked off two No. 1 s in a three-day span. 
Either Kansas or Missouri has held the top spot in the poll for the last eight weeks. With Oklahoma already fifth be­fore the second No. 1-bashing, it ap­pears th1~ Big Eight could finish the regular season with 1-2-3. 
Last time that was seen in a poll was one from the other sport they play out here. Nebraska, Oklahoma and Col­orado finished in just that order in the final football poll of the 1971 season. 
You can't get tickets for games at Allen Field House. llearnes Center and llilton Coliseum. Oklahoma's Lloyd No­ble Center rated with the noisiest of pits in the two victories this week as the at­tendance record was broken each night. 
"I think there's a lot of pride in our conference," Tubbs said. "Coaches want their teams to be best and there's that certain feeling that goes along with it that you want your conference to be the best. You want to be top in every­thing, team and conference." 
The success of the conference rose 
through the '80s. The decade started 
Oklahoma seizes top spot at polls 
(AP)-Oklahoma on Monday became the third team from the Big Eight to hold the No. 1 spot in the AP college basketball poll this season. 
The Sooners (23-4) jumped to the top from fifth after beating the other two teams from its conference which had been No. 1 this season-Missouri and Kansas-in three days. 
The victories were decisive­]07-90 over Missouri and 100­78 ovnr Kansas. 
The Soonnrs received 47 of 63 first-place votes and 1.555 _ points from a nationwide panel of sportswriters and broad­casters to nasily outdistance Kansas (28-3), which dropped one spot to second with 1.473 points. 
Oklahoma had its first-ever No. 1 ranking last season when it was in that spot for three of four weeks. 
The Sooners went to the top spot on Feb. 1 but lost at Okla­homa State three days later and dropped to fifth in the next poll. They rebounded with con­secutive home victories over No. 3 Missouri and No. 1 Ari­zona and held the top spot for three more weeks before losing to Missouri on Feb. 25. 
"We're taking it a little bit different than last year," Okla­homa coach Billy Tubbs said Monday. "When you achieve a top ranking for first time, like we did last year, it becomes bigger than what you try to achieve on the court. Right now we're just going to take it in stride and shoot for our final two goals of winning the next two tournaments." 
The first of those tourna­
ments will be the Big Eight get­
together this weekend in 
Kansas City where the Sooners 
could possibly face both 
Kansas and Missouri. The sec­ond, obviously, is the NCAA. 
"If there's a time to be num­ber one, I guess now would be it because it means you're play­ing good basketball at the most important time of the year," Tubbs said. 
Oklahoma was only one of 
ninfl IP.IJm<; frnm l11.;t wPPk'.; poll which didn't lose at least one game last week. It's the same 25 teams this week, with the order shuffled to reflect all those losses. 
UNLV (26-5) dropped from second to third after losing at Cal-Santa Barbara 78-70. The Hunnin' Hebels had three first­place votes and 1,363 points, 66 more than Syracuse (22-5), the Big East regular-season co­champions with Connecticut, which was 1Oth last week. 
Georgetown (22-5), which lost to Syracuse in the regular­season finale on Sunday, moved up two spots despite the loss and was named No. 1 on one ballot. The Hoyas had 1,224 points to edge Missouri (26-4). which dropped from third to sixth after an ugly 98-67 loss 
ND 
POM PON SQUAD Qrru~©[frruu®U~©rru®Q [l\i]®®U~ rru@ Come learn about tryouts Tuesday, March 6 
9:30pm in the Notre Dame Room 2nd floor LaFortune 
with the arrival of the first of a number of marquee players followed quickly with the addition of two coaches as op­posite as you can get but each as im­portant to the conference. 
Steve Stipanovich led Missouri to four consecutive titles in his outstanding ca­reer and he was followed as a key con­ference recruit by players such as Okla­
homa's Wayman Tisdale and Stacey 
King and Kansas' Danny Manning. 
The conference had five NBA first­
round draft picks in 1988 -Manning. 
Mitch Hichmond of Kansas State, llar­
vey Grant of Oklahoma. Jeff Grayer of 
Iowa State and Derrick Chievous of 
Missouri. 
The coaches who both arrived in 1981 
were Tubbs and Johnny Orr at Iowa 
State. 
Tubbs came over from Lamar, a 
smallnr program he brought a lot of at­
tention to. Orr moved over from the Big 
Ten. lie had 12 years at Michigan and 
he lost in national championship game 
in 1976. 
Their names and styles were a nice fit 
with Missouri's Norm Stewart who 
started at his alma mater in 1968. Hoy 
Williams, Dean Smith's assistant at 
North Carolina, is the latest addition 
and he seems to be fitting in nicely at 
Kansas. 
"I think the coaching is as good as 
you can get." Orr said. "We've got some 
great people in our league -Norm 
Stewart, Hoy Williams, Tubbs -they're 
just outstanding coaches. When you 
play they're teams you have to be 
ready." 
It still took a lot more to get the Big 
Eight in the high-rent conference dis­
trict with the Big East, Big Ten, ACC 
and SEC. 
"I think the greatest thing to happen 
to the Big Eight is that two years ago 
when we played Kansas in the final." 
Tubbs said referring to Kansas' 83-79 
victory over the Sooners in the title 
game. "Kansas State lost to Kansas in 
at Notre Dame. The Tigers, 
who had been No.  1 for four  
weeks this season,  had 1,209  
points.  

Michigan State, which beat Purdue and Minnesota this week to set the stage for a good chance at the Big Ten ti­tle, moved from 14th to seventh and was named No. 1 on two ballots. 
The Spartans' 1,156 points was 13 more than Connecticut's total as the Huskies (25-5) dropped from fourth to eighth after being beaten 84-64 by Ge­orgetown. 
Arkansas (23-4), one of the teams which didn't lose this week, and Purdue (21-6), which lost to Iowa 64-63, rounded out the Top Ten with 1,032 and 1,018 points, respectively. 
The Hazorbacks had been 12th last week and Purdue fell one place. 
La Salle (28-1). which re­ceived one first-place vote, led the Second Ten with 929 pointf. 
AP Photo 

Kansas guard Kevin Pritchard and Oklahoma's Damon Patterson (31) battle over a rebound in action earlier this year. They are part of a dominating Big Eight division. 
the regional final, that's three teams in the final eight. We had all those first­round draft picks and everyone had to admit that the Big Eight was good." 
There hadn't been any Big Eight teams in the Final Four between Kansas' appearances in 1971 and 1986. 
"We had to get into the Final Four," Orr said. "Once we did that, then I think the recognition started coming. Then when Oklahoma and Kansas got in the finals, that was great. Everybody knew 
weweregoodthe~n~.'•'..............................................~. 

H  2  B  K  
A  1  I  P  
P  S  R  
P  T  T  
y  H  
D  
A  
y  

WHo·s A GEEK? LOVE, JULES 

PLACEMENT EXAMS FRENCH SPANISH 
Mandatory Placement Exams in FRENCH and SPANISH will be given on: 
Thursday, March 8 
and Friday, March 9 respectively. 
Students who have studied French or Spanish in High School but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame m U S t take a Placement Exam orior to registration. 
ign up sheets and further information are available now in th 
Language Lab Office Rm. 251 O'Shaughnessy 
Si2n up closes on Wednesday, March 7 at 5:00 m. 
Tubbs said even that wasn't enough to silence all the skeptics. 
"Everyone pulled that crap that all those guys were gone so goodbye Big Eight," he said. "Here we are again and we don't have all those senior stars around. But I do see a lot of respect for our league around the country." 
It appears this season. however, that 

basketball is as top heavy as football had b1~en throughout the 1970s, its best decade. 

Tuesday, March 6, 1990 
Fencers roll over foes at Great Lakes meet 
By CHRIS FILLIO including strength of schedule 
Sports Writer and win-loss percentage. 
The Irish certainly have those 
The Notre Dame fencing factors covered, with the men 
teams continued their winning finishing the regular season at 
ways as they rolled over eleven 24-1 and the women at 22-1, 
Midwestern rivals en route to both records compiled against 
capturing top honors in both a wealth of top schools nation­
the men's and women's divi­wide. 
sions at the Great Lakes But DeCicco doesn't want his 
Regionals. teams to take any chances. 
Not only did they win the "Going into the Midwest 
overall team championships, tournament, we will likely re­
but all four weapons took first ceive the top seed in each 
place in their respective cate­weapon," said the veteran head 
gories. In all, the fencers cap­coach. "Based on this season, it 
tured nine individual medals, is probable that we will be se­
The fencing team took its act to the Great Lakes Regionals last weekend, blowing out all competition. If it
including two golds and four lected for the NCAAs. But if we 
continues on such a groove, it could qualify all four weapons to the NCAAs.
silvers. make it a point to make a good 
"It would seem to me that we showing in Detroit, then we spite missing two days of prac-Junior Phil Leary took second again edged the Tartars, 49-46. 
are in a good position to qualify can almost guarantee this." tice due to illness. Those last behind Wayne State's "Right now, I'm working to 
all four weapons," stated Irish The past weekend's results two guys will be the key for our Schroeder. Close behind Leary try to get us together, as a 
head coach Mike DeCicco. "But are an auspicious indicator for epee team. Jubba has certainly were teammates Noel Young team,'' said Barreda in refer-
first we must concentrate on the Irish. Sophomore Jubba been steady for us all season, and Jeff Piper. ence to the upcoming competi­
qualifying as one of the teams Beshin finished first in the epee and he continues to be a The women's squad faced tions. "It all depends on what 
out of the Midwest." division, just ahead of team­leader." Wayne State for the second kind of spirit we have. If we 
This weekend's tournament mate Derek Holeman. Fighting Equally as pleasing were the time in as many weeks, with fence as four individuals, we 
at Wayne State University in an illness, sophomore David Irish sabremen, who took all two more possible matchup to won't do well. But if we fence 
Detroit, Mich., will aid the Calderhead placed fifth. three top spots. Freshman follow in the upcoming weeks. as a unit, then I think we can 
NCAA selection committee in ''I'm happy that Jubba fenced James Taliaferro took the gold Wayne State's Loredana Ranza take it." 
picking the two Midwestern well and won the gold," said while sophomore Ed Baguer beat out senior Irish captain The next test for the Irish will 
teams to receive NCAA tourna­DeCicco, "and I'm possibly bested big brother Chris Anne Barreda for the gold. take place this weekend as they 
ment bids. While a top-two fin­more elated that Derek was Baguer in deciding the silver Heidi Piper, Kristin Kralicek, battle for a qualifying NCAA 
ish weighs heavily on the deci­able to finish second. Also, it's and bronze medals. and Lynn Kadri captured third, bid in the Midwestern tourna­
sion, other factors will influ­really a credit to David that he In addition, the Irish foilists fourth, and sixth, respectively, ment at Wayne State 
ence the committee's choices, was able to come in fifth de-continued to be a strong force. as the women's squad once University. 
The Ware watch: what will the Heisman winner decide? 
HOU~ !'ON (AP) -The pieces of All he has to do is decide. the NFL says you have to de­campus celebrity, Ware is still about another year of college 
the puzzle that make up Cougar head coach John clare. I'm still talking to NFL impressed when he meets stars football but Ware says he made 
Heisman Trophy winner Andre Jenkins is preparing an analysis teams about Andre." in other fields. no such statement. 
Ware's future are starting to of NFL teams to help Ware Ware has weathered the fame "I've seen places I never "It bothers me when you tell 
come together. decide if he should pass up his and furor of his celebrity sta­would have seen and met a lot somebody something and they 
He can play his senior year at senior year and declare himself tus. He still wears his trade­of people I didn't expect to want to twist it around a cer­
the University of Houston under for the NFL draft in April. mark polished smile, although meet," Ware said. "I met Burt tain way," Ware said. "It 
the protection of a Lloyd's of The Cougars begin spring it's difficult for him to sit Reynolds and Lonnie Anderson makes you kind of apprehensive 
London insurance policy. drills on Monday, but Jenkins through an entire basketball and Arnold Swartzenegger. You to talk to people. 
Or. he can shun college and says that's not a deadline for game on the Houston campus only get to see those people on "You never know what's go­
grab what will likely be a mil­Ware's decision. without being besieged for au­television." ing to come out." 
lion-dollar eontraet from the "There's nothing magic about tographs. But the weight of the decision Assistant athletic director 
NFL team that makes him a Monday." Jenkins said. "The In some ways, Ware is still a he must make and the pursuit Billy McGillis said Ware's in­
first-round draft piek. real deadline is March 22 when bright-eyed college junior even of the media to ·get an answer surance policy extended 
Ihe-Obset:Ver---­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For information, please contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-5303. To apply for the position, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 7. 
SOMMERS s¢ 
COPIES 
GRAPHICS 
Resumes  Also Available  
25 copies  Posters  
25 cover sheets  Banners  
25 envelopes  Color Copies  
$34.50  High Speed Copying Fax  

One and a half miles north of ND and SMC. 52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-6991 
v Check Us Out! 
though he established 25 NCAA has made Ware leery of inter­through July 1991, taking the records in leading the Cougars viewers trying to foretell his fu­protection through the 1990 to a 9-2 record last season, ture. season and up to the start of capped by winning the Heisman Ware was recently quoted by the 1991 NFL training camps. Trophy. one reporter as saying he was Ware won't discuss details of 
Although he has become a about to reach his decision his insurance policy. 
Notre Dame had never beaten the seventh, but the Irish won it 
in a twin bill. Freshmen Pat in the ninth when a Counsell 
Leahy hurled the first six in­single was followed by walks to 
Texas 
continued from page 20 

nings for the Irish giving up Lund, Binkiewicz and Danapilis came away with a lot of valu­eight hits, only one walk, and on a three-two count. Chris able experience and confi­two runs. Michalak picked up the win for dence." "The Freshmen are starting the Irish with a scoreless stint 
to grasp some of the concepts of 2-1/3 innings. 
Texas managed two runs in and get more confidence," In game two, the Irish got all that second inning and then got stated Murphy, "but they have a they would need in the third in­single runs in the fourth and long, long way to go." ning. Matt Krall singled in Mike seventh to take a 5-2 lead into The Irish broke a 1-1 tie in Miadich for the first run. Tom the ninth. The Irish made a the seventh when Counsell Allen ran for Krall, moved to comeback attempt as Danapilis walked, Ed Lund singled, and second on a walk to Dan singled and Jacobs drove him in Joe Binkiewicz followed with an Bautch, and then went on to with a double. The rally died RBI-single. swipe third and home. there, though, as Texas reliever "Bink and Eddie have strug­Joe Binkiewicz chalked up the John Dare closed the door. gled a bit, but it's nothing to be win, with a strong six-inning 
concerned about," said Murphy. performance highlighted by 
The Irish broke their three­"It's encouraging to win when only two hits, one run, and no game losing streak Saturday they're not at the top of their walks. with 3-2 and 5-1 wins over a games." "It was my first start of the 
tough St. Mary's team, a squad St. Mary's tied the game in year and I was pleased," said 
Happy 25th, Mom & Dad 
Love, ,.he Kids 
Binkiewicz. "I didn't walk any­one and I was really happy with that. That's important." 
The Irish beat Trinity on Sunday in another barn burner. In the second inning, Dan Bautch drove in Lund on a bunt hit, then stole second, third and home on consecutive pitches. 
"Coach just gave me the sig­nal," stated Bautch. "I'm just glad to be playing. Last year was tough with injuries. Now I feel physically ready, but I have a long way to go mentally." 
The Irish fell behind 3-2, but home runs by Mike Rotkis and Lund propelled the Irish to vic­tory. Mike Coffey, recovering from an arm injury, allowed only two hits over the last 3-213 to get the win. 


page 18 The Observer 
Women's basketball closes out season 
Irish set to take on Detroit in must-win situation for an NCAA hope 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team closes its regular season tonight in Detroit. taking on the struggling Lady Titans. Although the Irish trounced Detroit 99-58 in the two teams last matchup on Feb. 15, head coach MuiTet McGraw feels the Titans should play better at home. 
"They shot poorly when they were here," said McGraw. "I think they'll play a lot bettPr at home." 
For Notre Dame, this game is yet another in a series of must-win situa­tions. The 20-6 Irish hope to receive a first-ever invitation to the NCAA tour­nament. While the decision largely de­pends on how other teams do, a Notre Dame loss tonight or in the Midwest Collegiate Conference tournament this weekend could destroy any chance of 
consid1~ration. 
"We have to win tl},e rest of our games," McGraw has insisted repeat­edly. 
Because Detroit is not playing in the conference tourney, tonight's contest will close their season. Cheryl Day should spark the upset-minded Titans, although the Irish shut her down the last time the two teams met. In the Feb. 15 game, the Irish defense held the 6-1 center to eight points and three rebounds, while drawing enough fouls that Day had to leave the contest midway through the second half. The senior averages 17.2 points per game while grabbing 11 boards. 
McGraw plans to use the same game plan in order to handle Day tonight. 
"She's their best post player," McGraw said. "We'll try to pack our zone around her." 
Balancing the Titan attack is some talented outside shooting. Detroit leads the MCC in three-pointers, mostly because of freshman guard Patrice Martin. Martin had an off night at the ACC in February, sinkingjust one trey and scoring only six points. 
"Detroit is a definite three-point 
threat," McGraw said. "We'll have to 
be aware of that." 
Notre Dame will again be without the services of junior Sara Liebscher. The guard has an injured ankle and missed last Thursday's game against Dayton. 
"Sara practiced a little on Monday and it didn't look good," said McGraw. "She'll be there if we really need her, but I'd like to save her for Dayton." 
The Irish will play Dayton again at the MCC championships this weekend. 
Taking Liebscher's place in the starting line up tonight will be senior Lisa Kuhns. Notre Dame's roster presently numbers only seven, but so far the Irish have stayed out of foul trouble and gotten top-rate perfor­mances from the reserves. One of them. sophomore Deb Fitzgerald. has come alive recently. The 5-10 forward starred in her last performanceagainst thn Titans. In that match up, Fitzgerald scored a canwr high 22 points. 
------~------~------------,=.i-rs~·t--s~IH->t~o~f~th_<'_._s_e_c-or-ld~h~c~·d~f'---p~l<-ly~ti-e~d-t~h-e_s_c_o_rl-~-a-l_5_1_._T_h_e_n-. 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
Joe Fredrick had one of his best games of the season Monday against Kentucky, scoring 23 points in his last game at the JACC. 
NVentucky 
continued from page 20 

lead by shooting 5-of-7 from 
tlm~e-point range, holding Ellis 
to one point and forcing 13 
Irish turnovers. 

The Wildcats took the lead 
when Jeff Hrassow hit a three-
pointer from the left baseline 
with exactly 10 minutes left in 
the half'. Brassow's shot began 
ended when Reggie Hanson's 
slam put the 'Cats ahead 37-24. 
~I thought going into the 
game that it would be difficult 
because the hustle, spirit and 
emotion that typify Hick 
Pitino's teams would be evidnnt 
tonight," Irish coach Digger 
Phelps said, in reference to 
Kentucky's first-year mentor. 
"We came out a little too 
anxious, and we made some 
turnovers." 

Most of Phelps' attention at 
halftime was focused toward 
Ellis, who was not dominating 
inside against a Kentucky team 
that had no players taller than 
6-foot-7. 

"LaPhonso was fading away 
instead of going strong to the 
hole," Phelps said. "Even his 

The Observer I John Cluver 

Sophomore forward Deb Fitzgerald had her best game of the season against Detroit. 
was a fadeaway. I caiiPd a time out and told him just to turn and go strong to the hole." 
"I didn't do anything in tlw f'irst half," said Ellis, who finished with 12 points and a game-high 14 rebounds. "I knew I was a better player than that." 
Kentucky extended its lead to 10 points early in the second half, whnn a Sean Woods layup put the Wildcats up 43-33 with 
17:10 to play. That's when Ellis started to emerge in the paint. 
Notre Dame's leading scorer and rebounder tipped in an Ellery miss, then scored on a feed from Ellery a minute later to cut Kentucky's lead to 45­
42. The two teams exchanged baskets for the next three minutes. 
When Kentucky was forced to 
collapse inside, Ellery, Elmer 
Bennett and Joe Fredrick were 
free to bomb away from three-
point territory. 

"At first, we were able to 
take away the inside, but when 
Joe Fredrick came in, he made 
it difficult on our defense," 
Pitino said. "He stretched our 
defense, so it was difficult to 
cover all areas." 

Fredrick's trey with 10:35 to afll'r a pair of llanson frpp 
throws put the Wildcats hack 
minutes IPI't, Bemwtt respondPd 
with a trny that put thn Irish in 
front for good. 
"Notre Dame's three-point spurts really hurt us." said l'itino. whosn Wilndcats shot just 1-of'-8 from thnw-point rang.~ in the second half'. 
After thn Irish took tlw lead, Bennntt put the ganw on in~. The Irish point guard successfully got past tlw Kentueky press and conJHH'led on eight consecutive free throws in the last 1:31 to lwlp Notn~ Damn build its l1~ad. 
"I really didn't think their press was that tough at all," Bennett said. "After looking at the tapes, we felt they wouldn't be able to handle us 1-on-1 if we just dribbled through it instnad of passing." 
Phelps refused to predict Notre Dame's tournament prospects after the game. 
"All I know is DePaul beat us here, and I think we've got to play well Saturday (at DePaul}," Phelps said. "I would think that one independent is going to go." 

Fredrick 
continued from page 20 
"It did make up for that tonight," Frndrick said. ''I've strugglnd a lot this year and it's ~?od to go out on a high note. 
Fredrick started his final home game on the bench. but quickly established his place on the court. lie came in just five minutes into the game and played 29 of the next 35 minutes. 
lie nailed a three-pointer just 27 seconds after entering the game and converted a three­point play at the 14:04 mark to cut the Wildcat margin to 12­
10. lie finisht~d the half with 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting. 
"Joe eame in and gave the team a big boost." Notre Dame forward Kevin Ellery said. "lie was shooting well, got into a rhythm and played good defense." 
Said Fredrick. "I feel comfortable coming off the bench. It didn't matter how I played in the previous games. If the shots are there, I'm going to shoot it. They were just
.. 
falling tonight." 
They kept falling in the second hal f. lie hit a three­pointer to pull Notre Dame within st~ven at 43-36 and nailed another trifecta with HU5 left to tie the game at 51­
51. 
Perhaps his biggest shot came with 4:43 remaining when he hit an off-balance three­pointer with the shot clock down to one that boosted the Irish advantage to 66-58. The Wildcats never got closer than six after that shot. 
When Kentucky concentrated on stopping his shooting, Fredrick gave the ball up for four of his team-high six assists. 
"Joe Fredrick came off the bench and made things 
happen," Notre Dame coach 
Digger Phelps said. "It was nice 
to see him play this way in his 
last home game." 

Fredrick scored 23 points and then delivered the obligatory memoirs after the game. 
"It really hasn't set in yet," Fredrick said. "It will be really weird because the fans have been so good to me. It will be hard." 
Phelps knew it would be hard when he saw Fredrick and fellow co-captain Jamere Jackson while running Sunday in the concourse. They were 
Tuna queen 
turns 19. 
Happy Birthday 
To Maureen 
Long, short, or 
in between, 
you're the best we've ever seen. 
Love, Us 


standing in the empty JACC singing the Notre Dame Victory March. 
"That was a reflection of our four years here," Fredrick said. "We just wanted to walk out there and see what it looked like. It was weird to see Coach out there running by himself. 
"We started humming the fight song to pump him up as he was running. It pumpnd him up and it pumped us up. That was after Missouri and we thought eight more games and we could be national champs. People laugh, but we don't think it's unrealistic." 

LOYOLA 
0 ; I <t:

S:>.~. . pa UNIVERSITY 2::. 0 
CHICAGO
0 (j
~~J\t.p~\' 

THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 

offers an evening 
:MBA 
Professional education for positions of leadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence 
Now Accepting Appllct~tlons For Summer&. Ft~ll Qut~rters 
For information, call 312-915-6120 
Wt~ter Tower Compus 820 North Michlgt~n Avenue ChlCfiQO, Illinois 60611 
Loyo le~ 1 s e~n eque~J opportun1ty emp I oyer/educotor 
------------~-----­
Tuesday, March 6, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD Tuesday ACROSS 23 Shows fear 49 Land holdings 26 "-for Danny 52 Kind of mask or 
3:30p.m. Lecture: "Averaging Analysis of Adaptive Sys­1 Shopper's 
Fisher"· Robbins pipe

tems," Prof. Karl Astrom, Dept. of Electrical and Com­mecca 
28 Andrea del-55 Oriental

puter Engineering, University of Texas at Austin. Room 5Wise-owl 
58 Pat or tap 
33-avail

356 Fitzpatrick, Refreshments Room 181 at 3 p.m. Spon­9 Young bull 
60 Behind the 
35 loni's husband

sored by Dept. of Chemical Engineering. 13Redas­
scenes15 Tony-, 37 Eastern biggies 

4 p.m. Lecture: "The Restructuring of Kroger's," Execu­62 Gladden
memorable 38 Lasts

tive in Residence, Joseph Pichler, president and CEO of 63 Lake in Ireland
golfer 40 Asseverates

The Kroger Company. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 64 Joined
16 Sheltered at sea 42 Ebbets Field 

Sponsored by the College of Arts & Letters and the College 65 Fathered
17 His sentence is star

of Business Administration. 66 Kind of club 
lengthy 43 Brown, as raw 

4:30 p.m. Lecture: "Milton's Dante: the Dantean Influ­18 Broadway hit of silk 67 Rival of Henry ence on Donna Leggiadra," Ray Fleming, Dept. of Ro­yore, with "The" 45 Stadium in Ford 
68 Tout's concern
mance Languages, University of Pennsylvania. Room 122 20 Tropical fish Queens Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by Dept. of Romance Language 21 Puts in a 46 Having form and Literatures. container without reality 
DOWN 
22 Residue 47 Aboveboard 1 Knights of­2 "-Irish Rose"
CAMPUS 
3 Sinistral 

Tuesday ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Ogle's cousin 
7 p.m. Film, "China is Near," Annenberg Auditorium. 
5 Landon L A Will A I

Sponsored by NO Communication and Theatre. Admis­
6 More tranquil 
sion. 
7 Surrounded by 
7 p.m. The Courage of our Convictions' series, "A Quiet 
&John-
Garner, former 
Revolution," Terrence Martin, asst. professor of Religious 
V.P. 25 Occupied 9Tams 27 March King 
Studies. Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by 
Justice Education Series. 
10 Amor's wings 29 "Better a-of
7:30 p.m. Film, "Moonstruck," Room 206 Architecture. 
11 Diamond that pottage .. " 
Sponsored by Dept. of Architecture AlAS. $1 Admission. 
was rough 30 College lineman 12 Charge 31 Sweet bay, e.g. 14 Region 32 Greek mountain 19 Pendent 33 Six years in the
MENUS 

ornament Senate 24 Garb for an 34--cat 
Notre Dame 

investiture (sandlot game) 
Veal Parmesan Make Your Own Burrito Bar Macaroni & Cheese Hot Meatloaf Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
1\JtSOr..'(s IX>N.'I STWf M~D P\JSI-\It-IG DOWN. ~~D. I fO\JN.I.) l CO\JLD S\.lSPt:N.O !1\'1'51::.\.f 
1\IIS MORt{I~G I 1-\fo...O f.. ~Rrul DRU\'<\. l3'i 1-\0LOIN.G !<\'( ~R!I\S 0\l\ 
STf..RI M\JC\-1 'ri~£ f.. 1=\::.'fl \=££\ f>.B<Y-1£ \1-\E GROIJN.O. l \lJ>.,?I'£0 1\JI..RD£1<. , 1\N.D ~ l W~ 
T\-lr>-t--.1 1\-1\5 . sor-.R\N.G E.l=fQI<\LESSL~ O'l£.R 1\l.t ~S ~\) ll=.\.£~0N.'C \l(j,£S! I CO'VLD FLY.' I FQL\:lt:O to\'( t>.R!I\S Bt>.C¥: r..N..O Zo<::t:llt:O LO'tl O"l't:R n\t: 
~£\G\'?10RI-\OOI.). · £'4E.R'\~£ 'tii\'S ~Mt>.liO, t>.~l) 1\\t.'l R.N'-1 A\O~G-IJI"\OC.R ~'t: 1:>.'5 1 5\.10\ B'i . 1\\'t:N I ROC~D \JI' S:l\=11-'SI 1\{11..\ 1'-\~ t..~E.S 'tlt>..~~tD ~ 1\-\t WI~\). I. \.1>-%1-\t.D f>.~ V..~t.'i'.l, t-1\fl..¥:\~E.-~\lEs'C. LOOPS KROS'S "I"\\E. '5I(.'{ .' •• 111t>.TS Wl\'t:N. Mot<\ 'tt>Kc \1\'t.. \ll' r>-~0 SMD I ~s Q)l~t;; 10 ~\S'S 1\\£. BIJ'S IF I D\OOT Gt:r tl\'{ BOTIC)\-1\ 0\l\ r::fF BE.O; .20 ~IN.\J\tS Lr..\8<, 1-\E.~ I f..~, S\!>-N.IJ\N.G 11'1 \\\~ COLD RAil-.\, WM\\t\G 10 00 TO S::.\..lOOL, M~O 1 J\lS\ R\:\<\Eio\B£RED I FOROOI t<\'( l\JN.C\..l. 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
IT'S O.K. To B£ ALITTLE tJ£Rvovs ro~ Yoo~ r1RS DA'f AS A T€AC~ lNCn ASSISTAtJT. ;r \JSI Do 
WHAT T AL..v.JA'lS Do: tM AlntAI E Yov~ 5TuoENfS tN 11/Etf? VNDERWEAR. 
'\.~ 
L A D A FTA G 0 R A 0 Bll T I S E E D E A N S S I F U E N T E S  
DENOTES ENNEADS  
LIII~ A G E N T ,!!~~ T ""'"I 0 T T E.~J!~ PENTA ~E~$!~ ~_h~ ~~ I • R E L~~~~ROERS LADLE REV Y P R E S A S S I ~ D A 'T'E  
Llsr.rsi!COEY SCIENCE.ISONS  
MENAGERIE SABOT ERNSINATE EROSE E N S E A L A N S T E E P  



SUB Commissioner Applications 
Performing 
Special Events 
Performing Arts Campus Entertainment 
Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon 
Ideas and Issues
March 22nd and 23rd 
Washington Hall 8:00pm 
Publicity Services 

36 Fortuneteller's card 39 Finds new tenants 41 Crescent-shaped figure 44 Altered 48 Kefauver 50 Fracas 51 Oregon or Santa Fe 
53 Performed 54 Gets rid of 55 A peer 56 Teen woe 57--Ball 
(amusement­
park game) 59 Melange so What 
mendicants do 61 McMahon and Sullivan 
GARY LARSON 


Who Is KOLISCH?? He's the world's fastest 
Wednesday, March 7 in Washington Hall 
Movies Music 
Two show limes: 7pm and 9pm
Tickets: $3.00 at LaFortune Info Desk 
Tickets: $2 
-

on sale at LaFortune Info. Desk
Pick up Applications @ Secretary's
All proceeds go to St. Hedwigs Outreach Center ~ 
Desk, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
!<lnd the South Bend Women's Care Center. ~ 
Applications due Friday, March 9. 
I I 
~ 
Sports
page 20 Tuesday, March 6, 1990 

Notre Dame puts it to Wildcats in 2nd half, wins 80-67 
Irish bury trifectas, Fredrick comes off closer to NCAA bid bench to lead team 
By STEVE MEGARGEE By GREG GUFFEY 
Associate Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
Heading into Monday's season-ending 
Kentucky had the halftinw lead 37-30 and a contnst with Notre Damn. Kentucky had post-game celebration for thn five Notre 
made and attempted more three-point goals Dame seniors was threatfming to bneonw an 
in one year than the Irish had sinen the shot end-of-season lynching. was institutP<I in 19H6. 
"You're down 10 at the half. you've got to 
So it was only natural that Notre Dame 
speak to the crowd after thn gamn and you'reavertnd thn Wildcats' upset bid by not going to make the tourney if you lose,"
outgunning them. making s1wcn trifeetas to Notrn Danw senior co-captain .loP Frndrick 
Kentucky's six. The three-point onslaught led said. thn Irish to an H0-67 vietory and kept alive And it was Fn~drick who dneidnd lw wasn't 
the !Pam's NCAA Tournanwnt hopes. 
going to (pave tlw .Joyce ACC in that fashion. "The thn~es are always opt~n at some time 
Fredrick seorNI 13 of his season-high 23 
during the game," said Irish forward Kevin 
points in tlw second half to hPlp Notn• l>anw Ellery. who hit one tn~y in a nine-point ovnrcornl! a I0-point ddicit to down outing. "It's all a matter of n~ading them. 
Kentucky H0-67 and mow a stPp rlosPr to a Thn seeond half. thi!Y had to play tight on berth in the NCAA Tournanwnt. Phonz ( LaPhonso Ellis). and that opened up 
This gamP was Pven morP s1wcial to tlw thn!n-point shots." Fn~driek because it was against KPnturky. a Notrn Damn ( 16-1 I), which had shot 260­
school undPr two hours south of his 
of-6 70 from beyond the three-point line over Cincinnati honwtown. liP grPw up watching
the last four years, connected on 7 -of-1 0 NotrP Danw-KPntucky baskPtball ganws and 
treys Saturday. Irish eo-captain Joe Fredrick was one of tlw few Irish fans in a 
kd the way, going 4-of-6 from three-point 
prPdominantly Kentucky family. range on tlw way to ganw-high and season­"It seenwd likP !!Very time tlwy playPd,high totals of 23 points. 1\lmnr Bennett was Notre Damn got beat," FrPdrid said. "It 2-of-2 from three-point land and seon!d a 
meant something to play against and lwat carenr-high 22 points. Kentucky. All my cousins are from Kenttwky,Kentucky ( 14-14) was 6-of-15 from thrne­and it's a big rivalry bark home." 
point range Monday to 11nish the season Fredrick also n~gai1wd sonw prid•~ lost in a hitting 2H 1-of-H 10 trifeeta attempts. Derrick 
97-79 loss at Dayton last weekend. just an Miller hit thren treys. Sean Woods added two hour north of Cincinnati. Tlw Flynrs ht'id 
and Hnggie llanson made one. Fredrick to six points for his eoming-honwThn Wildcats jumped to a 37-30 halftime present. 
see KENTUCKY I page 18 see FREDRICK I page 18 
Baseball Texas trip catches eyes 
Irish lose close one to Texas but win others down South 
By MIKE KAMRADT The Irish bid to upset the was get through their right­Sports Writer Longhorns for the second handed lineup and hold them straight year got off to a good close." 
Disch-Falk Field, the home start in the first inning of last Senior Brian Piotrowicz came park for the University of Friday's game. Craig Counsell in and pitched outstanding ov1~r Texas Longhorn baseball team, got on to lead off the game and the next six innings. giving up is not a place most college stole second. With two out, hot­only two earned runs and one 
·eoaehes like to take their hitting freshman right 11elder walk. teams. Erie Danapilis stroked a single "It was a big game pressure­
An always talented Texas to seore Counsell. After stealing wise for me and the team." re­team and a hostile pack of over second, he was driven in by marked Piotrowicz. "With three 3000 baseball fanaties usually Frank Jacobs (2-for-3, 2 RBI) thousand screaming fans you don't make for a pleasant ex­for a 2-0 lead. Texas eame have to be able to make the perience. However, Irish head back with one in the bottom of pressure plays. I know I can do coach Pat Murphy loves a chal­the inning against starter Chad it and it's going to make the lenge, and the way the Irish llartvigson, and after team a lot better down the have played the Longhorns the Hartvigson started the second road." past two years, Texas may with consecutive walks, Murphy "Petro" was tagged with the want to reconsider having the came with the hook. loss, but that doesn't bother Irish back again. "He (Hartvigson) had a great Murphy. 
" It was no fluke we beat start at Hawaii and he had a "Petro pitched the game of them last year and no fluke we great start against Texas," his life," said Murphy. "lie played them tough (a 5-3 loss) commented Murphy. "lie got this year." said Murphy. rlone what we wanted and that see TEXAS I page 17 
Dismissal of Grace leaves Irish soccer in poor situation 
When the Notre Dame wanted. lie is a peerlnss recrune• c:uta a stnct eonsutuw ..... , 'Yf.l'~ 01 oectston. l,raee eontinUPS. athl1~tic department dncided disciplinarian. In 1988, when the Irish finished 15th "Notre Dame doesn't handl1! things this way. I just not to rPnnw men's and in the country, Grace was runner-up for the ISAA can't help but think there was an injustieP done." womPn 's soeenr eoaeh national coach of the year award. Grace also notes that his position will lw lilled by Dennis Grace's contract for Ken Tysiac But the athletic department argues that Graee was two full time head eoaehes: one for the mpn's team the 11JIJO season. a lot of either difficult or impossible to reach during the and one for thn women's team. people wnre shockt~d. day. Some time ago Athletic Director Richard His players claim they have benn behind Graee 
And rightly so. Tlw Irish Sports Writer Hosenthal had reportedly told Grace to begin every step of the way. Although a few freshnwn had soccer program had made keeping office hours. Although Grace beeame more problems with him early in the season, that appPars trnmendous strides under accessible after his meeting with Rosenthal, the to have been a ease of the new recruits adjusting to Grace's direction. Th1~ men Athletic Director wanted more improvement. their new role as small fish in a big pond. had compiled a 76-:JH-14 "There's more to being a college coach than just More than anything, the players worried about reeord during his six-year being able to produce on the field," says Assistant Grace's future. tmwrn and in 1988 earned Athletic Director Brian Boulae. "It was the little "Our biggest eoncern is over what he is going to 
Notm Dame's 11rst-ever bid to the NCAA soccer things that came baek to haunt (Grace). In the final do now," says junior Danny Stebbins, who will be a tournament. The women's team improved as well, analysis, the job wasn't getting done to Mr. co-captain on the 1990 squad. "lie has a wife and rising to varsity status in 198H. Rosenthal's satisfaction." two kids, so we're kind of worried about that." 
Grace's sueeess on the field is well documented. Grace appears to have a different idea of a soeeer In the meantime, Graee will continue to recruit for But Notre Dame officials argue that he did not do a coach's duties. Notre Dame until his contract expires and two 

good job as an administrator. The ensuing "I don't know what administrative things are. I people are hired to take the position hn once held. controversy ~as a lot to d~ with differing _opinions don·~ know .what offi.ee hours are. I honestly think Is it possible that even though Hosenthal agonized 
-
about the duties of a coach m college athletics. that m the SIX years I ve been here, the program has for a long time over this decision h<' made the Grace worked very hard to ensure the prosperity ~rown. I think I deserve to be in the future of Notre wrong one? · ' ' ' of both Irish soccer squads. The position of soccer Dame soccer," says Grace. coach at Notre D11me was the only job he ever "I don't know what would have happened to see GRACE I page 12 








