----~ 
, 
1 
1 
j 

THURSDAY,OCTOBER4,1990
VOL. XXIII NO. 29 
\ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Expert speaks on Gulf crisis 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Fundamental differences in Amnrican and Islamic nations' fomign policy need first to be ovHrcome before a peaceful resolution of the Middle East crisis becomes a possibility, according to Dr. Amjad-Ali, a visiting authority on lslamic­Amnrican relations. 
Amjad-Aii, director of the Christian Study CHnter in Hawalpindi, Afganistan, pointed out sevHral factors which could prevent a peaceful resolution in the Persian Gulf crisis. 
Amjad-Ali spoke of the United States' constant need for a bi­nary opposite, or foreign en­emy, to make American foreign policy relevant. With the recent changes in the Soviet Union and the hope of a future Soviet­Anwrican alliance, a new binary opposite must be sought, he said. 
"Islam is the new enemy," said Amjad-Aii. 
This should not come as a big surprisn, hownvnr, according to Amjad-Ali. Since the Iranian hostage crisis in 1979 -80, new tensions in the Middle East are constantly creatnd: Ayatollah 
see ISLAM I page 4 


By NATASHA WILSON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is well prepared to handle the challenges of the future while remaining faithful to the school's tradition, said University President Edward Malloy in his upbeat annual ad­dress to the faculty on Wednes­day afternoon. 
The strides Notre Dame made in the areas of academics, fi­nances and physical expansion during the last decade have bet­ter equipped the University to deal with the impending oppor­tunities and threats of the 1990s, Malloy said. 
In his speech, he recalled the University's achievements of the 1980s, presented his views on several current issues and opportunities at Notre Dame and analyzed the upcoming challenges facing the Univer­sity. 
"Hard work and cooperative interaction is the spirit that has characterized the last decade and this year [at Notre Dame)," Malloy said. 
He contrasted that spirit with the atmosphere of retrench­ment and financial anxiety that recently has characterized col­leges nationwide. Notre Dame has escaped many of the prob­lems faced especially by large 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
"Say no to greed." 
That was the message given to Notre Dame students in a lecture by William Clancy, As­' sistant Special Agent in Charge 
of the Chicago FBI office. 
Clancy, speaking to a packed 
crowd in llayes-llealy audito­
rium Wednesday, said there is a 
crisis of ethics in American 
business. This crisis has cre­
ated an upsurge in white-collar crimes, which Clancy believes will be continue into the near future if the economy goes into a recession. 
As a result, Clancy said, ND students will face many tempta­tions to commit white collar crime if they go on to deal with the business world. 
In order to persuade students not to engage in criminal activ­ity, Clancy read letter from a banker who was convicted of embezzlement. The banker writes of how the anguish he felt because of his arrest drove 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-Liberal 
!louse Democrats rebelled 
Wednesday against the $500­
billion doficlt-reduction pack­
age as Prosident Bush and con­
gressional leaders pushed hard 
for the plan on the eve of Its 
first vote. 
Leading !louse Democrats and Hopublicans expressed confi­dence that both sides would .r?und up a majority of votes by I h ursday, when the full House plans to vote on an outline of the package of tax boosts and spending cuts. 

"That is my intuition, that when tho vote comes there will be a majority of both parties," said House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash. 
But Bush, Foley and House Minority Leador Robert Michel, R-111., worked furiously behind the scenos, meeting privately with rank-and-file members and dispatching top lieutenants to do the same. Democratic leadership aides, speaking pri­vately, offered conflicting assessments of how worried they might be about the prospects. 
Democrats and Republicans figured on Wednesday night they were each 40 votes short of what they need and that a considerable number of Iaw­makors remained uncommitted. 
A number of liberal Democrats said they would op­pose the proposal, complaining about its reliance on $60 billion in Medicare cuts over five years and about the $11 billion in tax breaks it contains for small businesses. 
"To cut $60 billion from Medicare means a lot of low-in­come elderly are going to be faced with difficult out-of­pocket expenses," said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif. "These people didn't create the 


Malloy: ND ready to face the future 
• Mallloy speaks to faculty senate I page 7 
research universities, he said. "Notre Dame is small enough to be manageable and large enough to" have sufficient re­sources. 
Notre Dame has tried to en­sure its financial stability through fund raising activities, Malloy said. The University has strengthened its financial posi­tion through the incremental growth in its endowment, which now totals $600 million. The current development campaign, which started with a goal of $300 million, will probably have raised $450 million by the time it ends in December, he said. 
In response to the threats of an impending economic reces­sion and a war in the Middle East, the University has started strategic planning for the fu­ture. The administration re­cently developed a five year budget building plan that wouta help the University respond to emergency situations. 
For the future, Malloy de scribed bright prospects for Notre Dame. "I look forward to the 1990s with great confi­dence." He stressed the Univer­sity's commitment to remain "true to itself" while it adapts to future situations. 
see MALLOY I page 4 

FBI agent warns NO students about white-collar crime 
him to consider committing suicide. The banker resisted that impulse and accepted a five year prison sentence. 
According to Clancy, such harsh sentences are becoming increasingly common due to the increasing realization of the damage white collar crime does to the economy. 
To give an example of such to defraud the Department of Housing and Urban Develop­ment (HUD) by charging huge sums of money for housing re­pairs which were never made. 
Their actions, according to Clancy, have caused much of Detroit's housing stock to be­come uninhabitable while leav­ing HUD without the monetary .resources to remedy the situa­

damage, he recounted his inves-twn. . tigation of a scandal in Detroit Clancy sa~d tha~ when on~ of in which unscrupulous real-es-those convicted m connectiOn tate brokers contractors and with the case said he had to 
government ~fficials conspired ~IMti~it~fr;.::a~u~d:...,.:"t~o:..::,:st:;::a:..,:i~n~b,::us~i;,.-_______ 
ness," Clancy told him that "he should have gone out of busi­ness" rather than commit crime. 
Clancy gave similar advice to ND students. 
"Don't let your bank state­ments rule your lives," Clancy told the audience. "If you go into business, don't act out of greed but out of a desire to do good with the money you earn." 
By not basing their business 
see FBI/ page 4 

-=-----""1 
House Democrats rebel against budget package, Medicare an issue 
deficit." 
After a day of White House lobbying Republicans, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the needed votes still were not in hand, and declined to say how many votes the White House could muster. 
Bush kept close tabs on the results of lobbying efforts, checking in with Fitzwater at the end of the day for a reading of what the Congress members were telling reporters. Fitzwa­ter told him that "most say they are considering it, they're listening and they're sympa­thetic to the argument." 
Twenty-seven more Republi­cans met with Bush at the White House, the third straight day on which GOP lawmakers were summoned by the presi­dent for his sales pitch. One White House official called the operation the Bush administra­tion's biggest lobbying effort. 

The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 

L?ret Miller Ruppe, current U.S. ambassador t~ Norway and former drrector of the Peace Corps, speaks at Theodore's Wednesday night. 
~--------------------­

Thursday, October 4, 1990
page 2 The Observer 


~ -~-------­--------~-------~------------------~--­
INSIDE COLUMN 

Alcohol Policy makes sense (Buurrrp!) 
As a senior, one who has proudly at­tended every possible Senior Bar lunch, breakfast, and dinner only to throw them up to the delight of my rector, I've noticed a surprising trend de­velop among the un­dergrads here. 

There has been little, if any, recent public complaint over the University's Alcohol Policy, <hie!> and I think I know why: we have finally grown to see the immense wisdom of the Administra­tion in such a policy. Belch. 
I like it myself. Really. Could you pass the openerTThe Alcohol Policy as it stands is a marvel of logic and good judgment. Want a beer? In publicly bowing to the law, yet pri­vately giving students the option to drink behind closed doors or in closets, the Uni­versity truly encourages responsible drink­ing. Quick, pound that beer before we leave. 
Don't you think so? Shot? I mean, with the way the University preaches responsible drinking and backs it up, there is no other response possible but respect for the policy and a desir~ to follow it. There's beer in the 
fridge.

Especialiy admirable is the University's absolute and moral stance on the Alcohol Policy. Fill me up? It's good to know that rules don't bend or break for the two great gods: Alumni and Football. See you at the 
tailgaiter. Can you imagine the scoffing, the disrespect, the questioning of the Alcohol Policy if rampant drinking were permitted during football weekends? Wanna shotgun? 
What if thousands of strangers came here every other weekend or so, bringing beer and wine and food, then consumed it in the open, right by the stadium-what a horrible sight that would be, a flagrant disregard of the Administration's rules. I think I'm gonna puke. 
And special events like Junior Parents Weekend, too; the University is so unwaver­ing in its policy that even for the numerous and wealthy parents, it upholds its rules. More wine, Dad? It's good to not see rec­tors get blitzed on champagne, the same ones who would fine you the next weekend if you were just as toasted as they were. Bong it! 
So here we are, on a morally sound cam­pus that never would consider breaking its own rules for the sake of satisfying the rich or powerful or potentially generous. Chug this one. 
Actually, we're at Notre Dame. How muc is a pitcher? If you drink at one place Sat­urday afternoon, in the open, at a certain time, then it's okay. How many cases? How­ever, if you drink in the same place at a dif­ferent time, then it's bad. You could get fine, you horrible children! 
Is there a reason, anyone, for this? Ca any single person give me any single reaso for these glaring inconsistencies? 
Drinks are on me. 

The views expressed in the Inside Colum are those of the author and not necessaril thm~P. of The Observer. 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 4. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 70 Yesterday's low: 58 Nation's high: 90 
(Orlando, Fla. and Sa­vannah, Ga.) Nation's low: 24 
(Eiko, Nev.) 
Forecast: 

Cloudy, breezy and cool 
today with a chance of 
some early morning 
sprinkles, then becoming 
partly sunny by after­
noon with highs in the mid 
to high 60s. Clear and 
colder tonight with lows in 
the high 40s. Sunny and 
a little warmer tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 70s. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 

IXX1
®© 
~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctated Press GraphtcsNet 
OF INTEREST 

A workshop on Women in Music will be Habitat for Humanity is holding a meeting held today at 4:15 p.m. in the Multi-purpose room in the tonight at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. For Center for Social Concerns. This event is sponsored by the information call Paula Thompson at 237-0788. Year of Women and Campus Ministry. 
The deadline to sign up for the Senior Rap­
!he Medieval Club is sponsoring a colloquia Up discussion group is Friday. Males are encouraged towith Maureen Boulton, associate professor of the participate as there is currently a three to one ratio.
rom~nce" languages and literature, on "Why Medieval Contact the Center for Social Concerns for moreStudies? All are welcome to attend in the Medieval information.
Seminar Room, 7th Floor of the Hesburgh Library tonight at 7 p.m.. ' 
WORLD 

As East G_erm~ny disappeared on Serbs in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, manning a Wed~esday .. the Soviet Uruon moved to officially end its roadblock wounded two police near Knin, a town in the relations With the former nation and transfer bilateral center of the conflict between Serbs and Croats Yu­agreements to the united Germany. The Supreme Soviet go~lavia's two largest ethnic groups, Tanjug news agency vote~ 303-23, with 35 abstentions, to adopt a resolution said Wednesday. Serb leaders are threatening to use force "takmg under consideration" an East German proposal and to ally themselves with Serbs in other republics if to ~nnul a 197 5 treaty governing relations with the Soviet Croatia doesn't give in to their demands for full auton­
Uruon. It was not clear whether the resolution actually omy, developments that could plunge this volatile Balkan end~d the treaty or if further action would be needed. The nation into a civil war. In Slovenia, to the north, officials official news agency Tass interpreted the vote as a cancel­
said they w~~d "use all m?ans" to resist any move by the 
lation of the treaty. 
Yugoslav military to regam command over the region's home guard. 
NATIONAL 

David Duke, u.s. Senate can­An all-white jury Wednesday convicted record
didate, who once burned crosses to store owner Charles Freeman of obscenity for selling the denounce blacks, is now asking for sexually explicit album "As Nasty as They WannaBe," bytheir help, claiming Sen. Bennett the black rap group 2 Live Crew that had been banned by
Johnston "has led you down the blind a federal judge. The misdemeanor conviction carries aalley of poverty, crime and human possible one-year jail sentence and $1,000 fine. Browardmisery." ''I'm not your enemy," the County Judge Paul Backman set sentencing for Nov. 2.
former Ku Klux Klan leader said in a Freeman denounced the jurors as unfair and ignorant of30-minute television fireside chat the black community. The lyrics of the Miami-based rapbroadcast for the first time Tuesday rugm. 
I our rea• group have been criticized as promoting violence againstenemies are liberals like Bennett Johnston who have the women.
assumption blacks can't compete with whites and must be given preferential treatment and must be judged by lower standards...." 
CAMPUS MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On October 4:

The Feast of Saint Francis of Assisi will be observed at the University of Notre Dame Thursday by a Mass, a simple meal, a candlelight 
eln 1777: George Washington's 
procession and a prayer vigil for peace. The Mass 
troops launched an assault on the 
will take place at 5 p.m. in the Stanford/Keenan 
British at Germantown, Pa. The attack

Volume in shares 

lost momentum, and the Americans suf­
Hall chapel. It will be followed by a meal of soup 
135.49 Million 

fered heavy casualties. cerns. At 7:30 p.m. there will be a candlelight 
and bread at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­
eln 1931: The comic strip "Dick 
procession from the War Memorial fountain to 
Tracy," created by Chester Gould, made 
the Grotto, where participants will hold a prayer 
its debut. 
NYSE Index

vigil for peace. 
170.80 .. 1.79 

eln 1957: The Space Age began as
Saint Mary's College is one of 10 col­
S&P Composite 

the Soviet Union, to the dismay of the 
leges and universities which will receive a grant 
311.40 + 3.81 

United States, launched Sputnik, the 
from the Knight Foundation, officials said 
Dow Jones Industrials 

first man-made satellite, into orbit
Wednesday. The $2.3 million in grants, awarded 
2,489.36 +15.84 
around the Earth.

under the foundation's Excellence in Undergrad­
eJn 1965: Pope Paul VI became the
Precious Metals

uate Education Program, were the third in a 
first reigning pontiff to visit the Western
series announced by the foundation, which has 
Gold +$ 4.8 to $393.90/oz. 

Hemisphere as he appealed for world
given nearly $7.5 million to 31 schools in two 
peace in an address to the U.N. General 
Silver + 1¢ to $ 4.69/oz.

years. "Better education is a necessity in today's 
Assembly.

world," said Creed Black, foundation president. 

Thursday, October 4, 1990 
The Observer 

page 3 

ND prof. describes his culture shock in Africa 
Arms agreement reached in principle by U.S. and U.S.S.R. 
By ALICIA REALE 
News Writer 
Whlle ln the West African country of Ghana, anthropology professor James Bellis, who Is white, was required to transfer his driver's license and had to fill out a form which asked for his skin color. 
As an "educated liberal" he was uncertain of how to answer such a question. 
Bellis peered over a black man's shoulder and saw that he had put "red" in response to tho question. He looked at an­other black man's form and he had written "yellow." Finally, he looked at a third native's form and saw that he had put "black." 
Confused, he finally asked the man In charge who replied, "I don't know." He then asked an­other official. The man asked to see his arm and then replied, "I'd put 'fair'." 
Explaining this Incident at a lecture Wednesday, Bellis said, "That category in that culture was not a classification system. It was not a social caste. It was just descriptive, as eye color Is here." 
The above anecdote was one of several cultural differences experienced by Bellis when he lived in Ghana with his family from 1967 to 1969, working on his dissertation on Ghanian ar­chitecture. Bellls Is presently associate professor and chair­person of the anthropology de­partment. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The United States and the Soviet Union announced agreement in principle Wednesday on a com­prehensive treaty to limit non­nuclear weapons in Europe. If signed, such a treaty would represent the first limits on these arms in Europe since the end of World War II. 
The two sides also said they had made "substantial progress" on a separate agreement to limit long-range nuclear weapons. 
The agreement came at the end of more than five hours of talks between Secretary of State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard She­vardnadze. 
It sets ceiling on weapons that may be deployed in Europe, but does not cover the number of 
soldiers that may be put in the 
field, a topic the negotiators 
agreed to skip. 
Both ministers cautioned that 

final approval must await con­
sultation with their allies in 
NATO and the Warsaw Pact. 
Shevardnadze said one stick­ing point remained concerning limits on helicopters, "but that is not very difficult" and could be resolved by NATO and War­saw Pact negotiators in Vienna, site of talks on the treaty for 19 months. 
The last remaining roadblocks cleared in the session at the So­viet Mission to the United Na­tions were limits on land-based airplanes and verification pro­cedures for guarding against cheating. 
Baker and Shevardnadze did not explain the deal struck 
In terms of his experiences abroad, Bellls focused on the cultural differences that result in culture shock. 
He defined culture shock as "what happens to the individ­ual's psychology when one con­fronts a new culture, a new way of life." He shared many hu­morous anecdotes of the differ­ences he experienced amidst a new culture. 
Bellis said that culture is 
learned behavior. Most things we know are subconscious. By the time Americans go to school at 6 years old, we are fluent In English. 
Notions of logic, family, courtship, and love are all sub­liminal systems, Bellis says. He advises that when one joes abroad, he or she shoul be aware that "most of that cul­ture you'll never even come face to face with in explicit ways.~ 
"The challenge of living abroad," said Bellis, "is to at­tempt to control and come to terms with the continuing evo­lution of your learned way of life." Bellis said culture shock is also experienced when a person returns home. The traveller has experienced a "life changing series of events." 
"Cross-cultural living is the most extraordinary and peaked way to face your own life," said Bellis. 
In Ghana there was a limited supply of merchandise in the store, Bellis said. After return­ing to the United States, he and his wife went shopping be-on these two points, although Shevardnadze said with a chuckle "of course the Soviet Union made all the conces­sions." 
At the White House, presiden­tial spokesman Marlin Fitzwa­ter reacted to the announce­ment with one word: "Great," and said there would be no fur­ther comment Wednesdav. -The accord is the projected centerpiece for a 34-nation summit meeting to be held in Paris Nov. 19-21. Until the two superpowers hear from their allies, Baker reserved judgment on whether that deadline would be met. 
The two superpowers agreed in 1989 to limits on their short­range nuclear weapons in Eu­rope. 
In 15 years of desultory talks 


. . The Observer I Macy Hueckel James Bell1s, professor of anthropology, discusses the challenges of adjusting to a foreign culture as he faced when he lived in Ghana, at a Fireside Chat in the International Student Office Lounge Wednesd~y. 
cause, as Bellis said, "after two When Notre Dame students years we needed clean under­go abroad, some explore the wear." According to Bellis his new culture and become highly wife spent a long time in the immersed, Bellis said. Their store. Finally she returned, new experiences can change empty-handed. When he ques­
them. When students return, it 

tioned her she explained, "I is normal to distance them­couldn't make a choice." This is selves from the culture at large a brief notion of the "adaptive and from family that didn't drift In our behavioral pattern, share In the experience. our values," said Bellis. 
before that on "Mutual and Balanced Force Reductions" they made no progress on con­ventional force reductions. The February 1989 nuclear agree­ment and the unilateral moves by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to end the Cold War revived the conventional forces negotiations under the rubric "Conventional Forces in Eu­rope." 
The steady withdrawal of So­viet troops and tanks and U.S. cutbacks already are doing what the treaty seeks to ac­complish. But a treaty repre­sents a formal commitment by both sides. 
The Versailles Treaty that ended World War I imposed arms limits on Germany. The victorious powers, though sharply cutting their forces, never agreed on similar limns for themselves, and the German dictator Adolf Hitler started renouncing the Versailles arms limits in 1935. 

The new treaty on conven­tional arms would require the Warsaw Pact to withdraw 40,000 tanks, more than 51,000 artillery pieces and more than 40,000 armored personnel carriers from eastern and central Europe -four­
l 
sevenths to two-thirds of esti­mated current deployments. The arms would have to be moved east of the Ural Moun­
l
tains in the Soviet Union, about 1,200 miles east of the Soviet border with Poland. 
~ 
The restrictions on the , smaller NATO forces would be minimal, requiring only the re­moval of some 2,000 tanks. 
"You get caught in a stan­
dard, classic process. The only 
people easy to relate to are 
people goln~ through that same 
experience, Bellis said. 

.-------------,~ 

1
DRIVE S1'RAIGif't

INDIANA 
• 

~------------------~ 


, r I 
,f 
• 
Foliage season 

Visitors on a bus tour line up for a visit to Morses' Sugar Shack under the backdrop of Vermont maple 
trees showing their fall colors Thursday. Tourism officials in New England are concerned that the 
economic slowdown may cause a decline in the all-important foliage season for the regional economy 

a difficult time understandin!!' how "religion and politics are totally integrated" in Islamic nations. 
Amjad-Ali said Islamic na­tions are correct in believing such a separation is impossible. Only when American and Is­lamic attitudes about each others' systems of government reach a common !!round can progress be made. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
'SOCIETYs 







0MPU5 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
He said that Notre Dame 

plans to expand the faculty, in­
crease graduate fellowships, 
offer more financial aid, pro­
vide better resources for the li­
brary and the computer labs 
and give additional funds to the 
University's institutes and cen­
ters. 
Malloy predicted that the 

faculty would receive more na­
tional and international recog­
nition for their publications 
and research. The salaries of 
the Notre Dame faculty rank in 
the top quintile of all research 
and teaching universities. Ag­
gressive recruiting efforts have 
increased the size and improved 
the quality of the faculty, Mal­
loy said. 
The president also said that in the future the Notre Dame community will become increas­ingly sensitive to multicultural concerns. During the last five years the percentage of minor­ity students has grown steadily. 
-There has also been an in­creased commitment of re­sources to financial aid and the preservation of high admission standards, Malloy said. On the graduate level, the construction of new graduate student hous­ing will enhance student life, he said. 
Issues such as Notre Dame's Catholic character, the teaching of ethics, gender-related con­cerns and the needs of student athletes, deserve the attention of the entire Notre Dame com­munity, Malloy said. 
"Our Catholic identity is our greatest strength,• Malloy said. He also stressed the need for the community to address its obligations to society and to the Church "with openness and concern for the common good.· 

MINISTRY. 

You're invited ... 

...to take part in the CROP Walk for Hunger Sunday, October 7, at 2:00pm, starting at Saint Joseph's High School. See your Hall Service Commissioner, or CROP Walk representative about how to sign up. Begin your day by celebrating ma~s at 11:45 at Sacred Heart Church. Fr. Richard Warner, esc, will preside, and music will be provided 
e Charge Your Tickets At e
by th~: Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
284-9190

....____________......... . 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 
On the topic of student athlet­

ics, Malloy said "It is possible for us to maintain a high qual­ity competitive athletic program that is consistent with our her­itage. • 
In response to the recent na­tionwide concern about drug use among athletes, Notre Dame has implemented educa­tion programs and tried to cre­ate a climate of drug prevention in its athletic programs, he said. For example, the school's athletic department has regular unannounced drug tests of stu­dent athletes. 
Malloy said Notre Dame can instill ethics in its students by introducing them to a theoreti­cal framework of ethics that they can apply to real life situa­tions. 
In light of the Year of Women, Malloy stated that during the last four years the number of females as increased from 32 percent to 37 percent ~f the undergraduate popula­
tion. 
Since 40 percent of the appli­cants is female, Malloy said that the University should ei­ther adopt gender-blind admis­sions policy or continue to ad­ju~t the ratio to reflect the ap­plicant pool. He is recommend­ing that the Board of Trustees consider that issue. 
Addressing the issue of vio­lence against women, Malloy said, "We need to cultivate a place where women are treated with dignity and 1·espect. • 
Some current efforts toward achieving that goal include im­proved lighting around campus, emergency phones in parking lots, increased security pa­trolling and the Safe Walk pro­gram. 
• 
• Bnladway stage lly • 
Michael Butler Originally Prodtlcetl by tile 

New York Shakespeare Festival 



LIVE ON

•••• STAGE • •• • • •• • 
• 
Wednesday Oct. 17, 

8:00p.m.Morris Civic Auditorium 


• 
Tickets Available At Auditorium · 

• 
Box Office, LaFortune Info Desk, And All Usual Outlets 


Islam 
continued from page 1 

Khomeni, Yassar Arafat, Edi Amin, Mohamar Khadaffi, and now Saddam Hussein present to the United States easy tar­gets against whom America can be seen as peacekeepers. 
The idea of an Islamic nation wanting peace is "a paradox in 
FBI 
continued from page 1 

r 
~ decisions on greed, Clancy said r people will be able to withstand 
! r 
the temptation to commit white collar crimfl. Clancy's lecture was spon­sored by the Notre Dame chap­
~ 
r 
~ 
,r 
, 
most western minds," said Am­jad-Ali. U.S. attitudes must change if peace is to survive this crisis. 
Perhaps the biggest obstacle Amjad-Ali foresees, however, is the drastically different atti­tudes the United States and Is­lam nations hold toward the role of religion in politics. Americans who live with sepa­ration of church and state have 
ter of Beta Gamma Sigma, the national honor society for business students. 
United Way
• 

FUU SERVICE FLORIST  
Balloon  Plants  Bouquets  
Bouquets  Corsages  Arran"'""'"'"'!:>"'  
Dish Gardens  Boutonnieres  Fresh and Sil  

r----------------------~
110°/o OFF CASH AND CARRYJ 1 with SMC or NO student 10 I 
'Die Cm-'Dgl "-II

------------------------·
Soutb ot Vnlvenlty Park Mall Mishawaka. 11'1 4flM~ 
5901 Grape Rd.
211·1291 

The Observer page 5 

Ordination of women policy attacked by panel 
By PETER AMEND News Writer 
A panel of students and pro­fessors discussing the ordina­tion of women Wednesday ac­cused the Roman Catholic Church and the University of Notre Dame of not fulfilling the spirit of Jesus' message by denying their female members the opportunity to become or­dained priests. 
The message of the panel dis­cussion could be summed up in the applause heard over the suggestion by a priest in the audience who wanted to see the discussion of this issue taken straight to the Board of Trustees, which is meeting this week. 
Sister Mary Aquin O'Neill, one of the panelists, said, "the the­ology that prohibits the ordina­tion of women is unthinkable. It can't be defended, appropri­ated, or passed on without do­ing violence to the other things we believe." 
At the end of her speech, O'Neill questioned where women fit into the mission of the Church. "We have created a Church in which women have no role specific to us and there is one role that is closed to us: representing Christ at the Eucharist, with all that flows from that role in the current structure." 
Another panelist, John Houck. professor of manage­ment, said that Notre Dame has befm a leader in fighting racial discrimination in univer­sities and should take a stand against this type of discrimina­
After educating himself on the issue, Houck said he had to decide that "either God was mean and God did not love half of his creatures, and therefore they could not hold office in God's church, or try to prove that God was not mean." 
Mary Susan Twohy, a Notre Dame senior, spoke about the psychological ramifications of the Church's decision on the ordination issue in the Roman Catholic community. Twohy said that many female members may feel "betrayed and regret­ful. The Church, which may have once seemed nurturing, now appears deceitfully op­pressive." 
The last member of the panel to speak was Rachel Tomas, an undergraduate student at Saint Mary's College. Tomas shared her experience of living with a poor Mexican community that hungered for the Word of God, but were deprived of the Eucharist because of the lack of priests. Tomas also said that there were many capable and dedicated women who reg­ularly celebrated every part of the Catholic celebration except for the Eucharist. 
O'Neill noted that, although Pope John Paul II has called for a monthlong assembly to revi­talize the priesthood in the wake of a "burnout" to voca­tional life, he is not allowing the issue of the ordination of 
tion. women to be discussed.
e • ·~· ••_..:.--.-.-.-. -=--=-~----__..--_.. ____.~-------------••••••• -=: 
~ HRPPY II 20TH II JIM MARRONE ~ 
~ MAY YOUR BIRTHDAY BRING ~ '• YOU THE BEST OF ~ ~ EVERYTHING ~ 'CAUSE YOU DESERVE IT! 
I 
WE LOll£ YR! 
MOM, DAD, SUZY CHRIS, AND JINHIE 

The Observer 1Macy Hueckel
Let's Dance 
Several Notre Dame students celebrate Multicultural Fall Festival Week by showing off their .dancing skills in LaFortune Student Center. The Multicultural Festival continues today and concludes Fnday. 
Ad hoc committee seeks means to combat sexism and racism on campus 
By  DUSTIN  KLINGER  
News Writer  
The  ad  hoc  committee  for  

combatting racism and sexism at Notre Dame set goals of ed­ucating the campus about ac­quaintance rape and educating first-year students about racial and gender issues during their first meeting. 
During an open forum Wednesday the group of 10 students and nine faculty and staff members also discussed the need for a campus-wide in­clusive language policy, discus­sion about harassment in the classroom and a mentor pro­gram for first-year students. 
Facilitated by Kathleen Maas Weigert, faculty liaison and academic coordinator at the Center for Social Concerns, and Kate Halischak, executive offi­cer of the Gender Studies Pro­gram, the group was originally created as an offshoot of the Friday Forum and began meet­ing at the end of the 1989-90 school year. 
Educating first-year students and acquaintance rape carried over as the two top issues and cussion. Many committee members noted the steps that have already been taken in the area of acquaintance rape edu­cation and prevention. 
The Gender Studies program has purchased a 20-minute awareness video on the issue that has been shown to first year students in many of the residence halls and is available to any individual or group wishing to view it, said Halis­chak. 
The resident assistant train­ing program, which emphasizes acquaintance rape awareness, prevention and counseling, was also mentioned as a positive step in combating the problem. The need for these kinds of dormitory administered pro­grams to be extended to grad­uate dormitories was expressed as well. 
The Freshman Year of Stud­ies was agreed upon as the primary target for incorporat­ing issues of sexism and racism into the curriculum to ensure early awareness. Some sug­and Eileen Kolman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, be included in developing these programs. 
When the floor was opened for new discussion, one member asked how a student can respond when a professor re­peatedly makes sexist and racist comments within a class. The official policy suggests that students take a complaint di­rectly to the provost. Weigert suggested that filing a com­plaint with a group of students would be the most effective. 
The adoption of a mentor program establishing a direct faculty connection for individ­ual students to take their con­cerns to was discussed as a way to clarify the procedure for reporting offenses. The mentor program established last year by the Office of Minority Stu­dent Affairs was suggested as an example to follow. 
The committee also agreed 
gested a faculty training pro-that a policy of inclusive Ian-gram could be implemented, guage should be adopted by the and that Patricia O'Hara, vice committee and suggested to the 
•·-··.··-··.·.'-•• _ _ •• ...... "''"·-·-_ •• •• ·-11i11s.vi.ei.iallrllli'silllil Inclusive Ian­
··.··-.... ...... •• ·-·-••••...... •• ·-•• ··--o.lpi.ie.lniiie.iid-th gJrlloiuillpdiiiiis.-•lip•r•e•s•id•e•n•t-o•f•S•t•u•d•e•n•t-A•f•fa•i•rs. administration. 




COUNSELINE 


is a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped material covering a variety of student concerns. DIAL 239-7713 and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear. 
Title 

l Friendship Building 3 Types of Intimacy 4 Physical Intimacy 5 Fighting Constructively 6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 7 Dealing With Constructive Criticism 8 Dealing With Anger 9 Understanding Jealousy And How To Deal With It 
10 How To Say "NO" 

16 Becoming Open To Others 
20 Female Homosexuality 
21 Male Homosexuality 
30 Anxiety And Possible Ways To Cope With It 
32 How To Deal With Loneliness 
33 How To Handle Fears 
34 Increasing Self-Awareness 
35 Building Self-Esteem And Confidence 
36 The Value Of Self-Talk 
37 Relaxation Exercises 
38 Coping With Stress 
39 Female Sex Role --Changes and Stresses 
40 Male Sex'Role --Changes and Stresses 
Tape II Title 
44 Learning To Accept Yourself 50 Understanding Eating Disorders 51 Understanding Anorexia Nervosa 52 Understanding Bulimia 61 What Is Therapy And How To Use It 70 Infatuation Or Love? 83 How To Cope With A Broken Relationship 84 Death And Dying 85 Understanding Grief 90 Helping A Friend 
160 Early Signs Of An Alcohol Problem 
161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 
402 Self Assertiveness 
412 Examples Of Contract Building 
431 What Is Depression 
432 How To Deal With Depression 
433 Depression As A Lifestyle 
478 Becoming Independent From Parents 
479 Dealing With Alcoholic Parents 
491 Suicidal Crisis 
492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials In Others 
493 Helping Someone In A Suicidal Crisis 
The complete list of tapes is also available on page 2 of your Notre Dame/St. Mary's telephone directory. Counseline is sponsored by the University Counseling Center. For further information or assistance, call239-7336. 
guage was illustrated in replac­ing the word "freshmen" with "first-year students." 
The committee will continue meeting to discuss these issues, but needs to find a permanent facilitator because Halischak will not continue after the Oct. 3 meeting. Weigert has also asked to be replaced at the end of this semester. 
Anyone interested in joining this group is invited to join them at their next meeting in the Center for Social Concerns Multi-purpose room Oct. 17 at 
12:15 p.m. 
, 

BAR-B-QUE BEEF RIB BUFFET MADE FROM OUR OWN PRIME Rll 

.~~~~\. 6 
8PM t 95 
L YOU CARE TO fAT 

Also on Bu"''· .. Mesquite Chicken & Chili 
100 Center, Mishawaka Phone 259-9925 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 

Mutiny in Phillipines reaches major city 

MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Mutinous soldiers seized a ma­jor southern city before dawn Thursday in a new attempt to overthrow the government of President Corazon Aquino. 
Manila radio stations said the mutineers, led by the former
' chief of Mrs. Aquino's guard
r force, were also in control of a 
, 
r 
regional military headquarters in the city of Cagayan de Oro. 
r 
r 
r The armed forces went on na­r tionwide alert, and Mrs. Aquino huddled with her Cabinet and ~ senior military officers and congressmen at the presidential 
r 
~ palace. ''I'm calling once again on the people to rally against these troublemakers," Mrs. Aquino 
"P Photo said on the radio. "The consti­
r 
Loading up . . . tution will be upheld with force 
~ 
Soldiers from the 1009th Transportation Corps Detachment prepare nfles and ammumt1on ~afore when challenged with force." 
r 
leaving for Saudi Arabia from Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis Tuesday. The re~erye umt from Steps were taken to isolate the 
r 
' 
r Lansing, Mich., is the first reserve-style unit that has been deployed from the fort on a m1ss1on. rebels who seized the 402nd L----=-------------------------------------1 Brigade army base, located in 
Saddam visits Kuwait as visiting leaders seek peaceful resolution 
(AP)-Saddam Hussein on Wednesday made his first known visit to Kuwait since Iraq captured its oil-rich neighbor Aug. 2. Another neighbor, Iran, said it would keep out of any military con­frontation between Iraq and U.S.-led multinational forces in the region. 
Elsewhere in the Middle East, visiting French President Francois Mitterrand, Japanese Prime Minister Toshiku Kaifu and Soviet envoy Yevgeny Primakov all sought a peaceful solution to the Persian Gulf cri­sis. 
But new terror threats emerged. Palestinian guerrilla leader Abul Abbas warned he would attack U.S. aircraft if Iraqi planes were hit with weapons as part of the U.N. air embargo against Iraq. 
In Washington, Bush admin­istration officials told Congress Iraq is likely to remain a long­term threat, and sales of bil­lions of dollars in U.S. weaponry to Saudi Arabia are crucial to a new regional coali­tion to balance that menace. 
Iraq, facing an international force on its border with Saudi Arabia after invading Kuwait, suddenly made peace with Iran last month after eight years of war and two years of dead­locked peace talks. 
Saddam wooed Iran to side with him. Tehran joined world demands that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, but "also urged the expulsion of foreign forces from the region. 
On Wednesday, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati said on Tehran TV that Iran wants a peaceful settlement and "force should be the last possi­ble resort for solving this crisis, but Iran will not participate in this in any way." 
His remarks, monitored in Cyprus, indicated Iran was dis­tancing itself from Iraq, follow­ing suggestions it could cir­
cumvent  a  U.S.-led  embargo  
and  send  Iraq  food  and  
medicine.  Reports  from  

Washington said Iraq also asked Tehran to help export its embargoed oil. 
The London-based Amnesty International meanwhile issued a report saying Iraqi occupa­tion troops tortured and exe­cuted scores of people in Kuwait, some for refusing to display pictures of Saddam. 
Refugees have said stores and 
shops were pillaged, and that 
Iraq was out to dismantle 
Kuwaiti institutions. They re­

ported summary executions of 
resistance fighters. 
The Iraqi News Agency gave a 

different portrait. It said 
Saddam toured the streets of 
Kuwait, which "appeared 
flourishing after its return to 
the mother homeland." 
The news agency said Saddam met with Iraqi troops and presided over two meetings of military commanders. Iraq has annexed the emirate, declaring it Baghdad's 19th province. 
Kuwait city "glittered with pride" at Saddam's visit, said the agency, monitored in Cyprus. 
Mitterrand flew to the Persian Gulf for a two-day visit during which he planned to meet regional leaders and in­spect French troops. 
the city of Butuan, on Min­danao island about 500 miles south of Manila. Flights to Mindanao were canceled and schools on the island were closed. 
About 200 troops led by three medium-rank officers seized the brigade at about 1 a.m. Thursday (noon Wednesday EDT), army chief Gen. Renato de Villa said. One report said the base commander had joined the mutiny. 
The rebels later gained con­trol of Butuan, a port city of about 200,000 people on Min­danao's north coast. The rebels were under the command of renegade Col. Alexander Noble, former chief of staff of Mrs. Aquino's guard force. 
Manila radio station DZXL interviewed Noble at Camp Evangelista, regional Philippine Constabulary headquarters in Cagayan de Oro, 70 miles west of Butuan. 
"This shows that the free Mindanao movement is not just propaganda," Noble told re­porters. 
A senior legislator, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 
the mutineers planned to 
establish a secessionist gov­
ernment on Mindanao, the 
southernmost Philippines island 
and the second largest. There 
had been rumors that a coup 
attempt was brewing in the re­
gion for nearly six months. 
Mrs. Aquino has survived six 
coup attempts since she took 
office in February 1986. In the 
most recent attempt, in Decem­
ber, rebels seized Manila's fi­
nancial district in bloody fight­
ing and nearly toppled the gov­
ernment 
Also Thursday, a bomb ex­
ploded outside a Manila army 
base three hours after the Min­
danao base was taken. There 
were no injuries. 
It was the 35th explosion in the capital since August. Offi­cials see the bombings as the work of military officers hoping to destabilize the country. 
De Villa said soldiers from the 53rd Infantry Battalion, one of the units at the 402nd Brigade, organized the takeover. About 3,000 soldiers are based at the brigade. 
The brigade's commanding officer, Col. Hercules Galon, apparently escaped the rebel soldiers led by Maj. Adolfo Cer­deno, said a military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Emiliano Templo. But later Templo said Galon may have joined the rebels. 


Francesco's Ristorante 
Excellent Italian Cuisine 
20% Discount with Student ID Mon. -Thurs. 
Three blocks west of 100 Center on Lincolnway West, Mishawaka Mon.-Thurs. 4 -10pm Fri.-Sat. 5 -11pm 
Now Open Sundays On Home Football Weekends. 256-1444 
........................................................................ 
Is Feminism the Future? 
The Women's Movement and the New Equality 
A Lecture by Dale O'Leary 
a presentation of: 

THE~YEARG • 






~DMEN) 
ThundaJ', October 4 at 8 pm HaJ'e•Healy Auditorium (Rm 122) 
"A simple survey of 19th century history will reveal that every cause women took up succeeded: alx>Lition, women's property rights, reform ofchild lalx>r, women's education, women's suffrage ... " "They have not freed women to be who they are; 

they have tried to free women from what they are." 
• 
page 7

Thursday, October 4, 1990 The Observer 

By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
University President Father Edward Malloy spoke in favor of freshman athletic eligibility in his address to a meeting of the Faculty Senate Wednesday. 
Drawing on his own college experiences, Malloy spoke in favor of freshman eligibility, saying, "I found freshman inel­igibility very frustrating and it didn't help me academically." 
Freshman ineligibility does not decrease practice time, but does lead to an increase in red­shirting, according to Malloy. He said, "When most schools talk about freshman ineligibil­ity, it is virtually giving al­lowance to five-year red-shirt­ing." 
According to Malloy, ninety­four percent of freshman ath­letes entering Notre Dame do graduate in four years, and this progress toward graduation in four years should be the most important factor in determining freshman eligibility. 
Malloy also addressed the topics of the Hesburgh Library, the Faculty Senate's Committee on Governance, and tenure policies. 
In regard to improving the li­brary's national ranking, Mal­loy said that accurately target­ing a collection budget and en­hancing what can be done in personnel are the major fac­tors. 
"We have made significant strides in purchasing materials, especially since we don't have a
Ali Hussain, 8, center, punches holes in tin earlier this month at a 
medical school or other profes­
factory Calcutta, India, which employs children 
sional schools to inflate the to­tals," he said. "Attracting 
Malloy likes eligibility of freshman athletes 
benefactors has been a plus. Personnel is the most expensive part of our operating budget right now." 
Malloy also. mentioned that an external review of the li­brary system had just been completed and that the review­ers had questioned the role and function of the branch li­braries. 
The proposal for a Faculty Senate Committee on University Governance-does not represent any significant advance in fac­ulty-administration communi­cation, according to Malloy. 
"Many vehicles have been cre­ated already," he said, "and many have not been given suffi­cient weight by the faculty and the administration. One such is the Faculty Board on Athletics. Very seldom does a large insti­tution like this function by bal­lot or referendum. The pro­posal, as I understood it, did not seem to represent any sig­nificant advance." 
Malloy believes tenure deci­sions should rest with the de­partments and colleges, not the upper-level administration and he questions whether anything could make the tenure process less painful for those denied it. 
"I am not aware that there is any situation where this is done ease and comfort," said Malloy. "And I am not convinced that another level of review would help," 
Malloy's attendance at the Faculty Senate followed his an­nual faculty address earlier the same day. Paul Conway, associ­ate professor of finance, presided at the meeting and welcomed Malloy. 



COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 



~~TROJAN ~WOMEN 

BY EURIPIDES 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
Support the 

March of Dimes
--BIIlfH.OEFECIS FOUNDATfON....illil 
WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT.. OcT. 6 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM WED., OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN.. OcT. 14 3:10PM DIRECTOR 
REGINALD BAI N SET & LiGHTS 
KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY BOSCO 
TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SfN CIT, WED THU & SUN AVAILABLE AT TilE DpOR OR IN ADVANCE AT· 
LAFORTUNETICKET0FFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 

CAMPUS MINISTRY UNTIR FOR SOCIAL CONCERN PAX CHRISTI STUDENT GOVERNMENT W M 
SMC gets grant from local bank 
By CORRINE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College has 
received a $100,000 gift 
from Society Bank, Indiana 
for assistance in the renova­
tion of the College's largest 
classroom building. 
The grant will be part of a 
projected $2 million renova­
tion project proposed for 
Madeleva Hall. In addition to 
classrooms, the building 
houses the majority of fac­
ulty and department offices. 
The project calls for re­
configuration of office and 
classroom space and re­
design of existing areas to 
accommodate computer fa­
cilities, study areas and stu­
dent lounges. The heating 
and cooling systems for the 
building will also be re­
paired. 
"Society Bank is pleased to 
assist in the renovation of 
Madeleva Hall on the Saint 
Mary's College campus," 
said Michael Hammes, presi­
dent of Society Bank. 
"The building is a land­
mark in the community and 
a lasting memorial to a 
great educator. Helping pre­
serve and upgrade this cam­
pus landmark is a commu­
nity responsibility we whole­
heartedly accept in partner­
ship with Saint Mary's," he 
added. 
"We are grateful to Society Bank for this gift, which is indicative of the increasingly significant role that the local business community p.ays in support of higher educa­tion," said Saint Mary's President William Hickey. "We are pleased to be part of this growing partnership in the promotion of academic excellence." 
Madeleva Hall, named in honor of Sister Madeleva Wolff, president of Saint 
Mary's from 1934 to 1961, was completed in 1966. In­cluded on the lists of de­partments located in Madel­eva are education, history, political science, mathemat­ics, philosophy, psychology, religious studies, business administration, economics, sociology, anthropology, so­cial work, and women's Studies. The day students' lounge and Paula Program are also located·· in the building. It has not yet been announced when construc­tion is scheduled to begin. 
RJ 

OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK ST. MARY'S CAMPUS MINISTRY NOTRE DAME ENCOUNTER INVITE THE NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S COMMUNTIY TO A 
VIGIL FOR PEACE TONIGHT! 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 4 -THE FEAST OF ST. FRANOS BEGINS AT 7:30PM AT THE WAR MEMORIAL FOLLOWED BY CANDLEUGHT PROCESSION TO THE GROTTO LET US PRAY TOGETHER 
~ 
1 1 1 
, 1 1 
1 
,
, 
l 
i ~ 
1
, 
1 
Thursday, October 4, 1990
The Observer 

page 8 
NO-produced _televis~on 
Former head of Peace Corps

special on Ch1le to a1r 
Ruppe speaks about its.future 
Special to The Observer Rene Cortazar. Foxley and Cortazar are 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
"Chile: Return to Democracy," .former Notre Dame faculty an hour long Notre Dame spe-. During the last six months, cial, will be broadcast over Notre ·.Dame has produced 
When Loret Miller Ruppe took WNIT-TV, Channel 34, at 10 through Golden Dome Produc­
over as director of the Peace 
Corps in 1981, she was dis­
The program is dertved _fro~ ~rams, exam~m~g m_aJor soctal p.m. (EST) on Nov. 1.. tions 31 "Life. Choic~s" pr_o­

mayed at the fact that the bud­four 30-minute "Life Chmces Issues, for dtstnbutwn over a 
get for the Corps was equal to shows produced by Notre Dame national cable network. 
the budget for the Corps in and aired locally over WNIT-TV The series has won a Gariel 
1967. and Heritage Cablevision's Award in national-competition 

She found this troubling, VISN Channel in July and Au-for religious programming. 
since, she said, many people 
gust. 
Videotape was shot in Chile in July, and among the 18 inter­views conducted were ones with Patricio Aylwin, president of the Chilean government that took over from strongman Au­gusto Pinochet, and two of this cabinet members, Finance Min­ister Alejandro Foxley and La­bor and Social Welfare Minister 

r r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r r 
r 
r r r 
f NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIIIII 
r 
JUST WON THE LOTTERY-­

r 
,r 
I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! 

r 
PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE

r 
CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 

~ 
4 Miami GA's together for sale best offer by 10/5 call273-1364 
NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE 272-4748 
I NEED 3 MIAMI TICKETS, STUDS OR GAS. CALL MIKE MURPHY 277-9365 
$$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL WIL -217/223-9609. 

r NEED THREE STANFORD GA'S 
r BADIII CALL BIG STEVE@ 2506 HAVECASHII 
Need Student and GA's to Air Force. Call Aaron at 3264. 
----------1 
Need STANFORD and MIAMitix, student or GA's. Please call Betsy at 4858. 
Need 4 Air Force & Stanford. Call Sprout, 287-9670 
Will trade 2 Air Force GA's for 2 Stanford GA's or buy them outright. Dennis x2384 
You should sell me 4 MIAMI GAs immediately! Pete x1745 
NEED 3 AIR FORCE GAs Call Betsy X3771 
Wanted:1-2 Penn GAs + 2 GAs for any homegame #2771 
need one or two PENN STATE GAs. Call monica at 283-4021. 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S I WILL PAY WELL. 
$$$$$ 
CALL JEFF AT 273-1257 
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASEIII I REALLY NEED 1 MIAMI AND 2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX. CALL KAREN AT X2612. 
THE Family coming and need 5 Stan GA-MAFIA Connections-Sell me tix or lose body partsll Call Nancy x4995 
Please helpll I need Penn State tickets­GAorStud. Call Kathie X2484 
NEED 1-2 AIR FORCE GA #2790 
members in the Kellogg Center for International Studies. 
The program will cover "the disappeared" and the demo­cratic movement, the tension between Chile's national debt and its social needs and the role of the Catholic Church in the return to popular govern­ment, according to Producer Michael Doyle. 
Have one MIAMI stud ticket to sell. Best offer taken. Call Cara x3847. 
I need Penn St. and Miami stud. tix. Call Dan X1407 
Need two tickets to NO vs. USC game, student or GA's. Call Betsy at x3899. 
HELP! NEED AIR FORCE GA'S 
FORMAANDPA 
TODDX1724 
NEED STANFORD STUD TIX CHRISX1751 
I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S IIIIIII $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Grandfather and little brother need tix to see their first NO game. Call Andy at x1211 
I NEED 1 STANFORD GA X1057 TIM 
Selling all stud. tixll! Best offer-x2694,Maj 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 AF GA's & 3 STANFORD GA's CALL JOHN x4141 MONEY IS NO OBJECT $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I have 4 Miami Studs Need 4 Miami GA's Trade? WILL PAY Ill Treven X4503 
MIAMI TIX; need 1 student; call Bill x3300 
Hey-We have two Miami student tickets RIGHT NEXT TO EACH OTHER!!!!! What more could you ask for?IIIII Call 4354 or 4321 and leave best offer by Fri., Oct. 5. 
NEED MIAMI GEN + STUD TIX #2287 
••MIAMI.. STANFORD & AIR FORCE ••TWO STUD. TICK:• .. .. TOGETHER.... CALL JIM WITH "BEST OFFER" 271-0333 
----------1 
HAVE 3 STANFORDS & TONS OF $$ I NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S LET'S MAKE A DEALII CALL STEVE #2506 
Wealthy Alumni Desparately Need MiamiTix Call Tim x2015 $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED STANFORD GA Call Zaida x3435 $$$$$$$$$$$ 
I JUST PLAIN NEED: 
1 STD. STANFORD 2 STD PENN STATE 2GAFORCE 
CALL JOHN X3697. 

Dame run deep. She received au honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame, and she de­livered the commencement ad­dress in 1984. 
In addition to this, Ruppe's grandfather, Byron Kanaley, was a chairman of ND's Asso­ciate Board of Lay Trustees, and her father, Frederick Miller, was captain of the 1928 ND football team. 
In her lecture, Ruppe said that she was concerned about the Corps' starting programs in Second World countries, such as Romania and Hungary. Her main worry was the possibility of resources being taken from Third World programs and put into the new Second World programs, resulting in neglect of the Third World programs. 
When asked what she felt would be the biggest crisis sit­uation the Corps could face, Ruppe responded, "WP. always 
face the crisis of 'When should we pull our volunteers from a country?'" when a military emergency could put volunteers in danger. 
Fred Tombar, student body vice president, said he found the lecture very informative. "I didn't know much about the in­ner workings of the Peace Corps before this lecture. It gave me a new perspective on what they actually do." 
Ruppe is currently leading a 
nationwide Leadership for 
Peace campaign to increase the 
size of the Corps to 10,000 by 
the early 1990s. 

applaud the Peace Corps as one of the best programs the U.S. is currently sponsoring. 
Ruppe, who is now the U.S. ambassador to Norway, spoke at Theodore's Wednesday about her experiences as direc­tor of the Peace Corps from 1981 through 1989, the longest tenure in the organization's historv. 
Ruppe's connections to N11tre 
..1am willing to SELLIII.. 2 Miami GA's. Call Mary at (603)889-0368 & make offer. 
Selling one stud tick for Stanford and A.F.: Nell x2525 
NEED STANFORD G.A.'S & STUD. TIX CALL X1840 
PLEASE HELP MY OUT OF TOWN RELATIVES WITH 4 PENN STATE G.A.s 
and 1 MIAMI G.A. CHRIS AT $3419 
I HAVE 2 MIAMI GAs AND 1 STD TIX WANT TO TRADE FOR PENN ST. TIX. 287-3587 
FOR SALE: STUD TIX STAN AF MIAMI ETC. JON 1619 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUD. CALL BRIAN AT X1426 
I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR MY 6 AND 8 YEAR OLD COUSINS! PLEASE CALL SANDY X41211 
DESPERATLEY NEEDED 3 Penn State G.A.s. Call Kate x4071 to trade $MONEY$ for your tickets 
ALSO DESPERATELY NEEDED one Penn State student ticket Call Wendy at x4055 
NEED 1 MIAMI STUD OR GA CALL TONY 271-1873 
Will Trade: 1 Air Force Stud for 1 Stanford Stud or GA Call Anthony 273-9417 

For Sale: 2 Air Force GA's, Section 9. Best Offer Call Tressy, x2755 
SELLING STUD TIX to home games 239-8232 after 5pm 273-9209 leave b.o. syd 

Will trade 2 Stanford GAs tor 2 Air Force GAs. Heidi x4026 
Need 2-4 Stanford GA's X4012 
I WANT TO TRADE 2 A. F. GA'S FOR 2 STAN. GA'S #1630 JOHN 
I need 6 Standord GAs. Cristin x3857 
For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best offer. 284-5152 or 284-5115 
I have STANFORD GA's to Sell Please call me if you need them. 288-0597 
I Need PSU GA's Call Beth 288-0597 

4 STUD. TIX/ALL HOME GAMES MAKE OFFER: 287-9731 
I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S call Andi x4189 

I NEED ONE STANFORD GA FOR RICH ALUM. -CALL COREY AT x1351 
MUST SELL 3 STUD STANFORD TIXI MAKE OFFER, MIKE X1817 
Jolly What! Miami stud X3479 Righteous! Fab! Go Ducks! 
D Tix Stanford 
1 STDTixAF Call JP, 239 5699 

TICKETS: 4 STANFORD AND 5 MIAMI STUD. TIX. 234-2728 
WANTED: One student ticket for Air Force. Call3022 and name your price. 
$NEEDED DESPARATELY $ 2 STANFORD GA s. Will buy or trade for 2 AIR FORCE GA. John I Maureen 273-9165 
Two Chicks Need Your Tix: 2 Stanford Stud. 5 Air Force Stud. Please call Jen and Kristin X4827 

STANFORD TIX; need 1 student; call Bill x3300 
I need 1 Penn State student ticket Charlene x4067 
Need 2 Stanford GA's callx4285 
STANFORD or AIR FORCE STUDENT TIX(3) for sale at FACE VALUE. Call Randy at 277-8679 
NEED 2 PENN ST GA's & STUDENT TICKETS. CALL STEVE @1453 
Need Stanford GAs call Matt 273-1537 

Miami Stud needed for a very big brother. Suzanne 4174 
HELP I'M STUCK!IIIIIIIIII 

...with 2 married student tickets for MIAMI. Yeah, MIAMI -no ID required. best offer call: 
Amy 272-8954 





\PERSONALS) 
hiag 

..LONG ISLAND STUDENTS.. 
Fall Break Bus Oct 21 AM toLl -Oct 27 PM back to NO. Done in our usual "spirit" for only $10011st come, 1st serve-act now! Janice 2993,Joni 1839.SMC welcome! 

for sale: SEATTLE rd-trp plane tix­ Lost-blue backpck 127NSH on  
fall break. Save bucks. Caroline  9/26 @1 :45. physics NB, detex  
x4354  desperately wanted. no Q's,712 PE  
x4354 Caroline.  
I'M DESPERATEII NEED TO  ..LIVE BAND..LIVE BAND..  
TRADE TWO AIR FORCE  
STUDENT TIX FOR GA'S.  AT  
PLEASE HELP. I WILL BE  ..BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S ..  
FOREVER IN DEBT TO YOU.  
CALL MIKE AT 1788.  ..THURSDAY, OCT. 4, 1990..  
P.S. MOM WILL KILL ME IF I  
DON'T GET THESE!  ****..KROSEN ROE *******  
LIVE AT BRIDGET'S THIS  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP +  ...THURSDAY NIGHT...  
CASH! JAMAICA! BAHAMAS! Sell  
trips on your campus and earn tree  ..LIVE BAND..LIVE BAND..  
trip for you plus bonus cash I Call  
FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-31361  
PRINCE  
GUARD .  NO STRESS ALLOWED  
HYPOCRITE  in the 26'ers fan club. Survival  
rules: sleep and chocolate. Hang  
LAWYER  in there, Moire, Molly, Jane, and  
PREACHER  Ana.  
LANDLORD  -Vonny  
ANY ONE HE EASILY COULD BE  
INCLUDING A MIGHTY GOD OF  
THE SEA  NO STRESS ALLOWED  
in the 26'ers fan club. Survival  
HOWEVER, A SENIOR MALE  rules: sleep and chocolate. Hang  
SLUT IS HE\!!  in there, Mo'1re, Molly, Jane, and  
Ana.  
-Vonny  
FOR SALE  
1-way plane ticket  
from Boston to Chicago  
on October 28  
must be female,  
if interested, call x4500  
CAROLINE  
Who are you, and what's with all  
your personals? You're always  
THE COFFEEHOUSE OF GRACE  trying to give some-thing away or  
BRINGS ANOTHER NIGHT OF  get something back. Are you  
AUDITORY THRILLS WITH:  unsatisfied with your life? Are you  
9:00 JUDY HUTCHINSON AND  lost and lonely? Are you trying to  
RACHEL CRUZ  start a permanent "Caroline  
10:30 BONE FOREST  column" in the Observer? Are you  
FRIDAY,OCT, 5 IN THE  cute? Wanna know!  
GRACE BASEMENT.  -AN AVID READER  
SENIOR MALES NEEDED FOR  
get ready for the  SENIOR RAP UP DISCUSSION  
••• grace hall  GROUP&-SO FAR THE RATIO  
24 hour run!  IS 3 TO 1-THE WOMEN ARE  
OCTOBER 201h  WINNING, GUYS. GO TO C.S.C.  
FOR MORE INFO.  
One Way Flight to NY-La Guar  
Leave 10/20 after Miami game  
7:50PM. Price negot.  
Call Jim x1858  WVFI PRESENTS :  
THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  IRISH BASEBALL VERSUS  
THE SHIRT  WICHITA STATE  
Faculty Faculty Faculty  
Graduate Students &  THURSDAY, OCT. 4 7:00 PM  
Undergrad Students who want  
THE SHIRT can stjll buy them at  COVELESKI STADIUM  
the SUB Secretary's desk on the  
2nd Floor of LaFortune!  WVFI 640AM  
They make great Christmas Gifts  
and can also be bought at the  
Stanford Pep Rally!!  
(GATE 3 of ACC)  FINANCE CLUB  
GO IRISH BEAT CARDINAL!  BBQ!!!III  
THE SHIRT  Today, Thursday at 5:30pm  
THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  Call Maureen for details 1704.  
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  
STANFORD CALL 273-1364  
sdgf  
happy birthday T.C., or "guido, the  
killer pimp from Fort Wayne who  
has hated that nickname since  
freshman year at North Side." your  
favorite ex-river rat, M.Y.  Valentines  

....................................-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­





Business 
page 9 

Bear market is trouble for mutual funds 
NEW YORK (AP) -The mil­lions of Americans who sock away money in mutual funds didn't escape the pain and suf­fering on Wall Street during the past three months. 
In addition to taking a toll on the blue chips of the Dow Jones industrial average, the quarter that ended Sunday belted funds across the board. The Persian Gulf and the weakening econ­omy were to blame. 
"There were very few places to hide in the third quarter," said Michael Lipper, whose company, Lipper Analytical Se­curities Corp., released its quarterly performance report on nearly 1,800 mutual funds Wednesday. 
Lipper groups the funds into 27 categories based on the type of investments they make, such as growth stocks or corporate bonds. Two-thirds of these groups performed as poorly as they did in past recessions. 
And the worst may be yet to come. "If we look at our measures of prior down markets com­
pared with the present, there may be more to go," Lipper said in an interview. 
Mutual funds are a popular way for individuals to invest in the stock, bond and money markets. By pooling the money of many investors, mutual funds can buy a wider variety of securities than could a single investor, limiting the risk should any of the investments go bad. 
Lipper's figures were for funds that invest in stocks and taxable bonds. They did not in­clude money market mutual funds, a popular investment al­ternative to savings accounts, or funds that invest in tax-ex­empt government bonds. 
Among the funds in the rank­ing, those that invest in stocks fared the worst during the third quarter, declining an av­erage of 15.5 percent. That compares with a gain of 5. 9 percent in the second quarter. 
By comparison, the 30-stock Dow Jones average had a nega­tive return of about 14 percent during the quarter, assuming 

OWENSBORO, Ky. (AP) -Owensboro has been dethroned as America's No. 1 fast-food city, but Mayor David Adkisson wasn't unhappy when the latest rankings were released by Hestaurant Business magazine. 
"That was sort of a dubious designation anyhow, so I'm not greatly disappointed," Adkisson said. "I won't go out and burn my chamber of commerce magazine over it." 
The magazine, published in New York, dropped Owensboro from first to 50th place and 
THRESHOLD

CATEGORY 
FOR CATEGORY 
gave the new top spot to Wilm­ington, N.C. 
"I don't think that (top rank­ing) was any honor," said Ken Bosley, who represents the restaurant industry on the Owensboro-Daviess County Tourist Commission. "It's not something to be ashamed of, but it's nothing to be proud of either." 
Two years ago, Hestaurant Business listed Owensboro fourth in per capita fast-food sales with an average of $401 being spent for every man, 
AMOUNT ABOVE TOTAL LIMIT (subject to 10% tax) AFTER TAX 


Car $30,000 $140,150 $184,165 [43-FT. TIARA PLEASURE BOAT: list price $490,000 
THRESHOLD AMOUNT ABOVE TOTAL

CATEGORY 
FOR CATEGORY LIMIT (subjectto 10% tax) AFTER TAX 

Private boats $100,000 $390,000 $529,000 and yachts [34~FT~-S'i"LVERTONHPLEASURE BOAT: list price $102,000 THRESHOLD AMOUNT ABOVE TOTAL
CATEGORY 
FOR CATEGORY LIMIT (subject to 10% tax) AFTER TAX 

Private boats $100,000 $2,000 $102,200 and yachts /PASHA DE CARTIER1sK GOLOWATCH: list price -$14§01 THRESHOLD AMOUNT ABOVE TOTAL
CATEGORY 
FOR CATEGORY LIMIT (subject to 10% tax) AFTERTAX 

Jewelry and $5,000 $143,000 $162,300 furs 
[ R-USSIANSABLE COAT: list price $150,000 
THRESHOLD AMOUNT ABOVE TOTAL

CATEGORY 
FOR CATEGORY LIMIT (subject to 10% tax) AFTER TAX 

Jewelry and $5,000 $145,000 $164,500 furs 
Prices quoted from the following sources: Wide World of Cars, Spring Valley, N.Y.; Corrigan's Yacht Yard, Hampton Bays, Long Island, N.Y.; Cartier, N.Y.; Saks Fifth Avenue, Revillon Fur Salon, N.Y. 
dividends were reinvested, while , A Year of Dow's Ups and Downs Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, another popular gauge 
Dow Jones weekly closings from Sept. 29, 1989 through Sept. 28,1990 
of the stock market, lost 13.7 percent, Lipper said. 
A decline in stock funds also was not surprising given the unusually strong performance of these funds in the 1980s, Lipper said. The top-ranked fund in the 10 years ended Sept. 30, Fidelity Investment's Magel­lan fund, grew 622.7 percent, which he called "unsustainably high." 
The Iraqi standoff also took a toll on many bond funds dur­ing the quarter, since bond prices are extremely sensitive to the inflation caused by higher oil prices. Funds that in­vest in l.ong-term, taxable bonds declined 0.8 percent on average during the quarter, compared with a gain of 3.2 percent in the second quarter. 
The only groups of funds that grew were so-called world in­come funds, which invest pri-

3000 2900 2800 
2700 2600 2500 2400 2300 2200 2100 
0 

0 N D J F M A M J J A S 
marily in corporate bonds 
1989 1990 
worldwide, and gold 
funds. 1-------------------------------------------------...,j 
King of the fast food towns dethroned, falls to 50th spot 
woman and child in Daviess burgers for consumption on­County. premise or for carry-out." 
Last year, the city reached the Bosley said local restaurants top with an average of $460 didn't care for the No. 1 desig­per person. The latest figures, nation because they were afraid which the magazine published it would attract more attention in its Sept. 20 issue, show from the chains. Owensboro's per capita sales at "You can overbuild," he said. $338. "You can divide the pie too 
Restaurant Business defines much and hurt your service. fast-foot establishments as Now maybe the chains will look those with "limited menus. In­somewhere else." cluded in this group are estab­The magazine's Restaurant lishments that prepare re­Growth Index suggests that freshment items such as pizza, Owensboro may have too many barbecued chicken and ham-eating places. 
A rating of 100 means supply equals demand. A rating below 100 means the market is satu­rated. Owensboro's rating is 76. 
"I would think the market is saturated. As far as local peo­ple eating out, anyway," Bosley said. "Maybe when we can get more people coming to town, the demand will increase and we'll need more." 
Restaurant Business also has a rating to determine if more people in a community eat out than at home. 

Heating costs will skyrocket 
Increases of 50 percent similar to '70s crisis 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­spite adequate supplies of heating oil, millions of house­hold budgets are expected to be strained this winter as energy prices soar and government as­sistance programs are unable to keep pace. 
"We're going back into the 'food or fuel' problem of the early '70s for low-income and senior citizens," predicts Edwin Rothschild, an energy specialist at Citizen Action, a consumer and environmental group. 
Sharply higher prices could make the average season heat­ing bill of $800, common in much of the Northeast, closer to $1,200 this winter, govern­ment and energy experts pre­dicted. 
And federal budget negotia­tors are adding to the cost spi­ral. The new deficit-reduction plan being considered by Congress adds a 2-cent a gallon energy tax on all refined petroleum products, except for heating oil, beginning in Jan­uary. The jump comes as high gasoline prices and a proposed tax on gasoline impose sharply higher transportation costs on most households. 
Federal officials told heating industry representatives and state energy officials this week that, barring a further flare up in the Persian Gulf, there will be more than enough supply of heating oil and natural gas this winter. Stocks are higher than any time in recent years and many customers already have topped off their tanks. 
"Right now we're in the best supply position for heating oil we've been in three years. ... The hope is that prices will go down," says Bernard Smith, executive director of the New England Fuel Institute, which represents heating oil dealers in the region. 
The wholesale price of heat­ing oil soared from about 56 cents a gallon before Iraq's Aug. 2 invu,lon of Kuwait to $1.03 a gallon last Friday, although the price dropped a bit this week. Retailers have absorbed some of the increase, but consumers still face heating bills that are likely to be 50 percent higher than last year. 
Clair Jarvis of the American Association of Retired Persons said elderly people on fixed in­comes may be among the hard­est hit and be forced to spend their food and medicine money on fuel. "In the long .run they will suffer physically," said Jarvis, a retired minister from West Virginia. 
But oil distributors say they also are victims of the oil mar­ket. 
Vera Haskins, vice president of Mauger & Co. Inc., a Philadelphia area distributor, said her company so far has passed only three-fourths of the price increase on to cus­tomers. Nevertheless, the price ,has jumped 40 percent since ,
,
July to $1.28 a gallon. 

,
Soaring heating prices also 

,
batter low income households 

,
at a time when the federal gov­

,
ernment and many .~tates are ,cutting public assistance pro­grams aimed at helping the 'I poor pay for heat. ,
Federal energy subsidies for ,low-income families have been 
,
,halved since 1985 to $1.05 bil­
lion for this fiscal year -,
,
enough to cover only one in ev­ery four people eligible because they are below or near the 

,
poverty level. 

1
"We think the states should be picking up more" of the money, said Janet Fox, director of the office in the Department of Health and Human Services 
~ 
that administers the fund. 

1 
l 
Meanwhile, the Bush adminis­1
,
tration wants to phase out an­

,
other federal program that 

, 
·~
helps low-income people make 
their homes more energy-effi­

1
cient. The program provided 
$217 million this year, but the administration wants to cut that to $30 million for this win­ter, maintaining states already have money available for such programs. 
But many state officials said their energy conservation funds are shrinking. 

·AP·· .. ------·--·-· 


-----------------------------~---­
r 




Viewpoint 
r 
r r r 
r 
r r r r r r r 
r 
~ , r ~ 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,. ~ 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
,.. 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
Dear Editor: 
My name is Dreama Whitaker, and I am a rape sur­vivor. When I was twelve, a man came to me, destroying childhood faith and illusion as I watched in helpless horror. At fourteen, I was comfortable in my fear and he came again, wearing a different face, but his blackened eyes burned with the same hatred. I was seven­teen and he followed in dark­ness to extinguish the remain­ing light. 
Now I must speak. My past, my pain, has purpose if I am able to gather the shattered fragments and find buried among the memories truth un­shaken. May I hold triumphant truth high, and reveal hope in the light for all to see? 
Rape is more than a brutal crime against women; in our society, this is easily dismissed and forgotten: Rape is a violent attack on the human soul. One 

DOONESBURY 


AN AO FOR UNIVERSAL P/3­77?tJU3UM ~ I WNW, 511?, I'M NOT 90 5/JRE 7HAT 
7HAT'5 A GOa?~­RIZR MOV&' fa< 
MG... 
act performed in hatred seeks to destroy the spirit by ravish­ing the flesh. Will we stand idle and allow the soul to be sacri­ficed at the hands of men? 
I cannot name the hatred hidden behind the eyes, the evil nurtured within the heart. Perhaps it lies within each of us, struggling, attempting to surface. Yet I must believe that the human soul will ever tri­umph over darkness. The flick­ering green flame must not die. 
As a society, as individuals, we must strive to end the abuse of women, to conquer the darkness which attempts, shadowed in human form, to extinguish the spirit. We are the quiet hope and the help. Can you stand in silence? 
Please forgive my crusade, or welcome it as your own. 
Dreama Whitaker Pasquerilla West Sept. 28. 1990 

[X)()N£SBlJRY, M.
MIKer NO. 7H&RG MU5T 813 50M/3 MISUNP&R­
I'M 800/<&f? 5TANIJIN6! Mil<& (AJ(}()tO 
5TRAI6HT THROlEH 
I 70H/3U. StU 70 FLAO<. FOR AN 
NEVER aJMPROMIEie HIM­
OIL-COMPANY! 
~~~®\ 
v!I~W<ijl.­af~•il:':" 
·o.u. 

ROTC presence contradicts values of Christians in ND community 
LETTERS 

Feast of Saint Francis directs campus concerns toward peace 
Dear Editor: 
In honor of the Feast of St. Francis of Assisl, Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, Pax Christi, Women United for Justice and Peace, the Overseas Development Network, Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and stu­dent government are spon­soring a prayer vigil for peace tonight at 7:30 at the Peace Memorial. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.' 

Matthew New Testament 
With heightened tensions in the Middle East, our prayers for peace are needed now more than ever. I urge you to come and pray that we will not have to add another stone to "Stonehenge." 
Robert F. Pasin Student Body President Oct. 4, 1990 
rectory, and wou1d be well pub­licized. There is presently no one hired by Campus Ministry specifically for this purpose. 
2. If a student in ROTC de­cides to leave the program, that student shou1d not have to leave Notre Dame for financial reasons. There should be scholarship money available for such students. Notre Dame has already demonstrated its commitment to the military. By providing such a scholarship program, Notre Dame would be demonstrating an equal com­mitment to its ROTC students who decide that military service is not right for them. 
We recognize that a call for the removal of ROTC at this time would fall upon deaf ears. If implemented, though, the goals we propose would make Notre Dame an environment far more amenable to those who find the military inconsistent with their beliefs and values. 
Jeffery D. Long Pangborn Hall 
Oct. 1. 1990 
Dear Editor: 
I. and several other members of the Notre Dame community, challenge the presence of ROTC at our University. We are stu­dents and facu1ty who believe in the tradition of non-violence taught by Jesus Christ and held by the Catholic Church since its origin. Because of our beliefs, we find Notre Dame's commit­ment to the military through ROTC inconsistent with its pro­fessedly Christian character. 
There are two important parts of our position that I wish to emphasize and call to the attention of the Notre Dame community at large. 
The first is that we have no desire to judge, criticize or in any way alienate the students enrolled in Notre Dame's ROTC program. Although we do not necessarily agree with them, we profoundly respect the numer­ous reasons. particularly the financial reasons. that motivate students to join ROTC. Our dis­sent is not directed at these students, but at the institution. 
The second point is that we are not naive idealists. We un­derstand fu1ly that the immedi­ate removal of ROTC from Notre Dame is a practical im­possibility. Our disagreement with the present situation, though, has led us to formulate an agenda which a majority of the students at Notre Dame, in­cluding many who do not share our beliefs, could respect and support. It is an agenda which we believe is practical and de­serving of serious consideration. We urge the students, faculty and administration of Notre Dame to reflect upon this agenda and work for its im­plementation. 

Our agenda consists of two goals: 
1. The establishment of a professional University staff position as part of Campus Ministry for the counseling of students who become conscien­tious objectors. The services of this counselor on conscientious objection would be available to all students including. but not limited to, those in ROTC. The counselor wou1d have a distinct office and office hours, a phone number listed in the campus di­
----------~---­
Accent 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 
Hispanic organizations extend -welcotne 

CRISTINA ORTIZ GRETCHEN REIBOLD 
accent writers 

"iHola! '?Que tal'?" is a com­mon phrase among many llispanics around campus. It is an expression of sincerity. Translated in English. it means, "Hello. how are you'?" 
Whether you have ties with Mnxico, Central America. South America, Puerto Rico, Cuba, Dominican Hepublic, Spain, or any other Hispanic area, you will never feel left out (unless you decide to seclude yourself from others}. This hospitality extends to other cultures as well. 
"The Hispanic American Organization (IIAO} welcomes everyone to learn more about the Hispanic culture and its customs," says Jorge Vera, the president of the Club. The club consists of students from a wide array of Hispanic backgrounds, induding students of non­llispanic backgrounds who enjoy discovering more about Hispanic traditions. 
The club focuses on three main aspects: culture, society, and service. Each year HAO members organize a number of cultural activities to promote awareness on campus. The Posadas is one such event which commemorates the pilgrimage Mary and Joseph took to Bethlehem. Another cultural event honors the Virgin of Guadalupe (December 12). the patron saint of many Spanish speaking countries. 

The Annual Hispanic Semi­formal and the Big Brother/Big Sister program round off the social activities of the HAO. 
Cultural music played at the semi-formal will include the polka, corrida, cumbia, salsa, and merengue. 
The Big Brother/Big Sister program stepped off its first year with a cook-out at Carroll Hall. 
Generally, Hispanic cultures are renowned for their strong faith and unity. Members of the HAO share these virtues with others through various service projects. Each Sunday several HAO members attend a Spanish mass at St. Stephen's Catholic Church in South Bend. Following the mass these stu­dents stay to assist teachers with the children's catechism program. 
Service efforts are also shared at El Campito day care center in South Bend. Students are involved in coordinating ac­tivities for the young ones. 

In addition to HAO, ND/SMC Hispanic students may partici­pate in the League for United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), a national organiza­tion with a branch founded at NO last spring. Although this club is politically oriented, it also sponsors a variety show called "Latin Expressions" at the end of the year. 
Finally, Ballet Folklorico de Azul y Oro is a dance group consisting of ten members. Each year this group performs various dances from different regions of Mexico. Performances for the Multicultural Week, International Students' Organization and the South Bend community are among the occassions. 
If you are interested in any of these clubs, you may contact the following club presidents: HAO, Jorge Vera at 283-1494; LULAC, Manuel Espino at 289-0383; and Ballet Folklorico de Azul y Oro, Rachel Reyna at 283-4912. 
NOTE: Tonight there is an HAO meeting open to everyone at 7 p.m. in the T.V. room of Farley Hall. In addition, Ballet Folklorico de Azul y Oro will open its season this Friday with a performance at the Field House Mall at 4:30. 




'Ferris Bueller' leaves audience unconscious 
To set himself apart from his movie foil, the television Ferris Bueller (Charlie Schlatter) sev­ered the head of a cardboard representation of the Ferris Bueller of movie fame (Matthew Broderick). What he failed to realize is that many viewers probably found the cardboard more interesting than television reality. 
Ferris Bueller has returned, and his television program is called, surprisingly enough, "Ferris Bueller." The television program keeps the same main characters as the movie and basically just continues the theme that was started with Ferris' day of missed class. 
Ferris is still the king of his home and school. Mr. and Mrs. Bueller see their son as perfect while his sister sees him as the weasel he really is. Obviously 
Marc Johnson 
To be continued ... 
her parents view her as a problem child lacking all the social graces of their brilliant son. 
Ferris still is loved by all his classmates in high school, and he is still despised by his principal Mr. Rooney (Richard Riehle). Ferris has basically replaced the need to see administration, counselors, or anyone with a title. Sick of cafeteria food? Talk to Ferris. Not happy with your schedule? Talk to Ferris. Get the picture? 
Unfortunately viewers should change their picture or turn the television off completely. This program is definitely not the place to search for great lines. 
When asked what he has in common with the gorgeous girl from the season premiere, Ferris responds, "a weird name." This joke was even less humorous on the small screen. 

Although this television series is not worthy of comparison between its movie version, the new Mr. Rooney is not funny even in his own right. This character proved to be one of the key elements in a classic film, and the humorous relationship between Ferris and his principal ­is necessary for the success of the televis~on program also. Unfortunately the conflict in this relationship seems forced, trite, and lacks humor. 
Ferris Bueller tells his audience that "there exists only two states of consciousness: sub and un." Guess in which state his audience found itself? 

----~-------------. 
Thursday, October 4, 1990The Observerpage 12 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 

prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
LOST: A SET OF 4 KEYS ON  1991-1992 Reserve your  I REALLY NEED 2 MIAMI G.A.'s!l  $  
NOTICES  THE OVALS BEHIND STEPEN CENTER. IF FOUND PLEASE  6,5,4, or 2 bedrm house. Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­ good $$$-call Jacquie @ x4986  WANTED: ONE OR TWO NO­MIAMI TICKETS. CALL MRS.  $ $  
CALL ANDREW AT 1417!1  5653  I Need GA's for  MCINTYRE COLLECT (802) 775­ MIAMI AND AIR FORCE  
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME.  AIR FORCE, MIAMI, and  4553.  STUDENT TIX FOR SALE  
CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­ Lost: 2 keys on a plain ring btwn  STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991­ PENN STATE. Also need stud. for  BEST OFFER  
297-2192.  oshag-Galvin-NDH  92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL  PSU & Miami.  PLEASE call Beth  Selling stud. tix.  Let's make a  CALL JOE 233-4065  
please call  x2661 if found  CHUCK GLORE 232-1776.  at 288-0597  deal!!!  x2620, Marie  $  
TYPING AVAILABLE  I  $  
287-4082  a studio apartment in lovely  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn  NEED AIRFORCE & MIAMI TIXI  $  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949  WANTED  old mansion near N. D. 255 plus deposit ; please call 2888595  St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971, II am-8pm, M-F.  CALL MO x4805 NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET  Need Stu lix? I have! Call Fang @272-9041  
roommate wanted to share two  CALL MIKE AT X2097  
JUST SAY NO!  BABYSITIER WANTED:  Looking  bedroom house.  two minutes  NEED 2GA'S FOR STAN AND  **WE NEED Air Force GA's!;  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. &  for someone to watch 2 small children in my home. 4-8 hours a  from campus. 2730087  AIRFORCE MIKE-1625  Need 3 AirForce lix  &WE have SIAN. stud. tix (2) Can buy, trade or sell or mix  
Howard. 233-2342  week.(flexible) wage negotiable.  STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK  !!IIIIIHELPIIIII!  Bad!  call: 289-6046 or 233-3973  
Transportation required.  AVAILABLE  NOW  I NEED TWO STUD. TIX FOR AIR  
SMC-ND student~ummer  271-1833 AFTER 7:00PM  FORCE FOR ADORABLE UTILE  PauiX2481  
programs London (May 22-June  SPRING BREAK 1991 -Individual  BROTHERII  
21) and Rome (June 16-July 15).  or student organization needed to  CALL PATSY X4765  2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX  
Travel in Ireland, Scot., Eng., France, Ger., Switz., and Italy. Courses in art, bus. and aeon.,  promote Spring Break trip. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. CALL NOW!!I  FOR SALE  TICKETS WANTED:  I need G.A.'s for the Stanford game. Call Don @1653.  FOR SALE 272-6459 I need one AF stud ticket  
educ., Italian, justice ed., his!. and  Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800­ I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX  Call Mary X2549  
soc.  Meeting Oct. 15 7:00pm  327-6013.  TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM  10 GA'S FOR AIRFORCE  ND GRAD and wife from Calif.  
Carroll Hall (SMC). Teachers,  AND LEAVE B.O. #3770  NEED 21ickets to N.D. Miami  
slides, former students, pizza, etc.  JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give  4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE  Game. Call Collect (818) 591­ I need Stanford Stud. lixlll  
For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284­4460 (office) 272-3726 (home).  hundreds of employers (including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank  FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Portable TVIII Excellent condition.  CALL X1650 AND LEAVE NAME,  2625.  Call Georgie at X3622  
One, the Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft,  Call x1208 and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer  PRICE AND PHONE IF NO ONE IS HOME.  NEED STANFORD TICKETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE (708) 325­ o/o0/o o/o0/o o/oo/o 0/o0/o MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE  
lnterVarsity Christian  Procter & Gamble, and Random  before midnight, Oct. 12th.  0345!!!  CALL NOW 2546  
Fellowship  House) access to your resume  I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD  or3028  
MEETING:  through Targeted Recruiting  Sale: 3 Stanford Stud. tix  FOR MIAMI OH. FRIEND  NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA. CALL  
"Why Should Christians Pray"  Services (TRS). Only $10 before  2 married, 233-7198  CALL TAD#1718  277-9406 AND ASK FOR JACKIE.  
When ? Fri. Oct. 5, 7:30pm  Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment  
Where ? 427 Stanford  kit plus a free Corporate Profiles  SMALL DAY BED WITH BACK  STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED!  WANTED -FOOTBALL TICKETS­ Have 4 Stan GA's will sell or trade  
?? Call lim@ x1985  Magazine, describing opportunites  CUSHIONS, 29 x 72.  ••• 3 GAs, or 2 GAs & 1  PENN STATE GAME NEED 4·  for Penn St tix  Call Chris at 1718  
ALL ARE WELCOME  at the nation's leading employers,  EXCELLENT FOR STUDENT.  marriade stud tix •••  PLEASE CALL 201-689-5133 OR  
caii1-800-TRS-JOBS.  $65.272-6194.  call Patty 255-5771  WRITE TO P.O. BOX 267  
' LOST/FOUND•••••• REWARo•••• ....  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE  NEED 2 GA's for STANFORD,  WASHINGTON, N.J. 07882. 2 STANFORD TIX FOR SALE.  need 2 Stanford tix 4757 SHANNON  
My license was losVstolen last  mo. Summer, Yr., round, All  NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­ AIR FORCE, and PENN STATE.  X4541, X3612.  I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs &  
9/20 at The Commons.  I need it  Countries, Corona Del Mar CA  1364  PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687  
back so I can write checks, drink  92625.  Call Pete x-1097  Need Student lix for AIR FORCE.  
etc....  Call Jackie x4121  
It is a Pennsylvania license.  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO  1985 BUICK REGAL  75,000 Ml  
PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the  ST. LOUIS THIS WEEKEND-OCT  EXCELLENT  NEED MIAMI GAs & STUD JOE  As of 10/4 needed:  
name on the ID) with ANY  5-7. CALL MIKE X1613  CONDITION,V6,AC,2  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  X1761  2 STANFORD GA's  
information. 288-0597  DOOR,LIGHT BLUE ASKING  HELP ME!  1 MIAMI Stud lix  
$4200. CALL 233-5316.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S & MIAMI  
FOUND AT MICHIGAN GAME ­ GA'S OR STUD.  NEED STAN. GA'S $$$ $$$TOM  Call Mike X1890  
BRO. PETER'S BUSHNELL  Medical, sports, or exercise  FOR SALE: Four Stanford GA's  234-8608  
BINOCULARS-CALL X1407  oriented person needed part­ and two Miami Student tix.  Best  CALL SAM X4013  
time to assist with patients  offer. Chris 1 052.  HEY! I HAVE 1 AIR FORCE GA  
ATIENTION  in sports/orthopaedic physical  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TO SELL AND I NEED 1 PENN  
TO THE YOUNG MAN WHO STOLE OUR TAP FRI. NITE.  therapy clinic. Call Maura at 277-9901.  MOVING SALE 81 olds omega good body running well $700  ST GA  CALL ME-RON AT 277­ 
TWO OF OUR FRIENDS SAW  or better offer 239-5754 or  Parents cut me out of will. I need 2  9359  I need 1 Stanford GA  
YOU TAKE IT, AND WILL RECOGNIZE YOU WHEN THEY  I need a ride to or toward Champaign,IL, this weekend. Will  271-8858  AF GAs to get back in the fold. call Michele x4995.  BUY A RAFFLE TICKET FOR  Karen x4806  
SEE YOU.  RETURN IT, NO  pay gas $$.  Doug x2355  FOR SALE:  $10.00.  For Sale:  
QUESTIONS ASKED.  SAME  2 STAN. STUD. TIX  AIR FORCE TIX; need 1 student;  HELP A LOCAL FENCING CLUB  3 Stanford Stud. lix together  
GOES FOR THE JERK WHO  SEC. 30  call Chris x3372  AND RECEIVE A CHANCE FOR  
STOLE MY STRAW HAT.  JIM#2461  2 MIAMI TICKETS.  Call Joe X1688  
Need 2 Penn GAs Julie x1992  CALL CAROLE. 272-7741.  
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S  Stanford stu. tix For Sale  
HAVE YOU SEEN MY KEYS???  FOR STANFORD  
LAST SEEN  ACROSS THE  TIMI  X3143  Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John  Mike x3024  
STREET FROM STEPAN  Schwinn Varsity Bike  BIG $$for  x1220  
COURTS SITIING ON A FENCE  $40 caii271-1953,Wendy  2 Air Force GA's  MIAMI TIX FOR SALE  
POST. HAVE SMILEY FACE AND EIFFEL TOWER KEY CHAINS.  ONE MIAMI TIX AVAILABLE  1984 Buick Regal-Loaded  call Luigi  x4659  2 STANFORD STU'S FOR SALE ANDY 232-2586  DAVE  X3024  
PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT  BARB X3143  New Transmission, Brakes  I NEED 6 AIR FORCE GA'S.  
X1336. LOST-AIWA SUPERBASS  Need 2GA's for Tennessee game! Matt #1070 $$  $2400, 271-1953,Wendy L TICKETS  MONEY NOTA CONSIDERATION. PLEASE CALL JIM AT x1 091  2 Stanford GA's Good Seats Sect. 15. Call 288-4183 leave name, number and offer.  FOR SALE: Tickets for all remaining home games.  
WALKMAN in Washington  
 NEEDED: 2 AIRFORCE GAs  Call Joe X1688  
Hall Laundry Room on Sept.30  Earn $300 to $500 per week  Need $$$?Sell  FOR GRANDPARENTS  Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM  
around 4 pm. I know it sounds  Reading Books at home. Call  your ga's to all  CALL MARY X1727  
nice, but please return it.  1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340.  home games.  NEED AF GA'S -4 TOGETHER  Need Stanford GA's 232-6715  
REWARD-$$ or MIAMI  Call tom x1597.  OR 2 SETS OF 2; 3-5 MIAMI  NEED 2GAs FOR ANY HOME  
Call Cesar (1690)  GA;1 MIA STUD TIX* CALL DAVE  GAME. AMY X1918  
Christmas Help  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  X1407  
FOUND: PACKET OF FAMILY PHOTOS WITH TRISH ON BACK OF THEM OUTSIDE OF HURLEY ON MONDAY. CALL SHARON  National firm has many openings available. $8.10 starting. Gain great business experience . Weekends and  GAMES.272-6306 I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ I need 2 GA's for EVERY home  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED AIR FORCE, STANFORD, AND MIAMI TICKETS. GA'S OR  HAVE 1 MIAMI STUD BEST OFFER. AMY X1918 STANFORD STUD TIX FOR  I need GA's for any home game, but especially Miami, Penn Stand Navy. I will pay well. Call Jason at X3413 or X3419.  
239-6370 OR GO TO 225 HAYES­ evenings available.call271-8699  game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  STUD. CALL ROB OR TOM  SALE  
HEALY TO CLAIM.  PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$  X1779.  CALL427611  2 Miami Ga's to sell  
EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING  Call John after 6P.M. at  
FOUND: JACKET IN FRESHMAN 8ESOURCE CENTER. CLAIM AT  BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, JAMACIA AS PART-TIME  Need 2 Air Force GA's call  YOU CAN CHANGE THE WORLD!  LEGITIMATE NEED for two STANFORD GA'S. Cancer Patient  (703) 528-8288.  
SECURITY IN OLD ROTC BLDG.  CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING  Brian C. at x3546 or x3540  OR MINE IF YOU SELL ME  has never seen a  HELP Ill  
BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786.  YOUR STANFORD GA'S OR  Notre Dame Game. Will pay  

LOST:  MIAMI TIX WANTED  STUD'S. CALL KEVIN AT X2201  reasonable price for tickets.  DAD NEEDS AN AIR FORCE  
Yellow Folder- NEEDED: AN ARTIST WITH  $GA$  Tom 272-3420.  GA  
contains very important material ....  TALENT IN PORTRAITS  (201) 334-3804  I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS!!!  DON'T LET HIM DOWN  
Reward!  PLEASE CALL JACKIE 4112  GA'S OR STUDENT. CALL KATE  Scott x3314  
Call Jay Johnsrud at 1581.  BIG$$$$$  Needed: Miami lix, Stud. or  ATX1330.  HAVE 4 STAN. TIX TOGETHER.  
GA Please call Matt X3024  Will trade for 2 Miami  
LOST:  ANYONE DRIVING BACK AFTER  Need Miami GAs & Studs  I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST  together and 1 Miami separate. Call 239-3982  
Yellow Folder- FALL BREAK FROM THE PHILA  Mike 273-1537  UNCLE AND COUSINS. IF YOU  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  
Contains very important material.  OR HARRISBURG  CAN HELP MY NOV.16  Need 2 Stud Stanford lix  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  
REWARD!!!  AREA?,ANYWHERE WITHIN  Need Miami stud tix  REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X  x1560-Kev  CALL 273-1364  
Call Jay Johnsrud ... 1581  2HRS. I NEED A RIDEI PLEASE  for brothers, Dan x1795  1068. THANKS  
CALL X4046  CALL BRIAN AT X1426  
- LOST: 14 k gold rope chain  WANTED: 1 or 2 dedicated  Need:  STUDENT TICKETS NEEDED! STAN,AF,PENN ST. X1581 TOM  DESPERATELY NEED  
bracelet on Stepan Football  students to fill the Fri. night  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME  AIR FORCE TIXIII  CALL  WANTED-TIX  
field. GREAT Sentimental  10pm-12am shift for  GAMES!  KARIN x1992  MIA -N.D. GAME  
Value. If found, please  COUNSELINE. If you're  4 STU OR GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  CALL 800-323-7687  
contact Cara at x3847.  interested in providing this  CALL JOE X1688  JOE 1599 OR PETE 273-9126  Need Stanford GA's  
community service, Call  Monday-Thursday  call Kenyon x1233  BUY, SELL OR TRADE AIR  
LOST: SILVER NECKLACE  239-7336.  3:30-6:30  FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD  
W/PEARL PENDANT NEAR  GAME.  
SACRED HEART. HIGH  I NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S  I NEED THREE AIR FORCE GA's  CALL LAUREN 273-1380  
SENTIMENTAL VALUEII PLEASE  I need 2 PITI GA's for my Dad's  Need 1 Stanford GA, Stan x2742  CALL MARY X4189  CALL JIM AT #3800  
CALL  birthday present. If you can help,  
AMY AT X3427 IF FOUND.  call Julie X4571  NEED 2 STANFORD GA  HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S  i Have Penn St. Students  
TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GA + $  AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR  I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's Ill  best offer 273-1364  
LOST AT THE PUTIING GREEN: A Hogan 51 sandwedge x1930  FOR RENT  MIKE 1158  POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589  call Hilary x4304  

Thursday, October 4, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
Scoreboard 
LEAGUE LEADERS 
BASEBALL'S ANAL TOPTEN 
By Tlw "->cceeed "'­ 
Bued on 450-' ­AMERICAN LEAGUE  
G  AB  R  H  Pet.  
Btet1 KC  142  544  82  179  .329  
RHdan Oak  136  489  119  159  .325  
Plmero Tax  154  598  72  191  .319  
Trammell Det  148  559  71  170  .304  
Boggs Bsn  155  619  89  187  .302  
EMantnez Sea  144  487  71  147  .302  
GrtyJr Sea  155  597  91  179  .300  
McGriff Tor  153  557  91  167  .300  
CJames Cle  140  526  62  158  .299  
Puckett Min  146  551  82  164  .298  
HomeRI.ww  

Fielder, Detroit, 51; McGwire, Oakland. 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Toronto. 35; Gruber, Toronto, 31; BJackson, Kansas City, 26; RHenderson, Oakland. 28; Deer. Milwaukee. 27. fUw llllltod In Fielder, Detroit, 132; Gruber. Toronto. 118; McGwire, Oakland, 108; JCanseco, Oakland, 101; Sierra, Texas, 96; Maldonado, Cleveland, 95; DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Burks, Boston, 69; Patmeiro, Texas, 89; Trammell, Detroit, 89. Pitching (15 Declelona) Welch, Oakland, 27-6, .818; Clemens. Boston, 21-6, .778; King, Chicago, 12-4, .750; Slieb, Toronto, 18-6, .750; BJones, Chicago, 11·4, .733; RRoblnson, Milwaukee. 12·5, .706; Boddlcker, Boston, 17-6, .680, 4 are tied with .667. 
BASEBALL'S TOPTEN 
By Tlw "->cceeed "'-
Bued on 450-' ­
NAl'IONAL LEAGUE 
G NJ R H Pet McGee Stl 125 501 76 168 .335 Magadan NY 144 451 73 148 .328 Murray LA 154 555 96 182 .328 Dykstra Phi 149 590 106 192 .325 Dawson Chi 147 529 72 164 .310 Roberta SO 148 555 104 172 .310 Butter SF t80 622 106 192 .309 Grace Chi 157 589 72 182 .309 TGwynn SO 141 573 80 177 .309 Sandberg Chi 155 815 116 188 .306 
HomeRI.ww Sandberg, Chicago, 40; Strawberry, New York, 37; Mitchell, San Francisco, 35; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 33; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 33; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 32; Gant, At1anta, 32; Justlce, At1anta, 28. fUw llllltod In 
MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 122; Bonilla, Plt1aburgh, 120; JCaner, San Diego, 115; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 114; Strawberry, New York, 108; Dawson, Chicago, tOO: Sandbero. Chicago, 100; Wallach. Montreal, 98. Pitching (15 Decillone) 
Drabek, Pittsburgh, 22-6, .788; RManlnez, Loa Angeles, 20·6, .769; Tudor, S1. Louis, 12-4, .750; Darwin, Houston, 11-4, .733; Gooden, New York, 19·7, .731; 
Burl<ett. San Francisco, 14-7, .667; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667; Rljo, Cincinnati, 14·8, .636. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
TEAM BATTING  
NJ  R  
Cincinnati  5526  693  
Chicago  5600  690  
Los Angeles  5491  728  
San Francisco  5574  719  
Pittsburgh  5389  733  
San Diego  5554  673  
Stlouis  5463  599  
New Vorl<  5504  775  
Philadelphia  5534  646  
Atlanta  5504  682  
Montreal  5453  662  
Houston  5379  573  
INDIVIDUAL BATTING  
410 or IliON-' 11-'8.  
NJ  R  
McGee Stl  50t  76  
Murray LA  558  96  
Magadan NY  451  73  
Dykstra Phi  590  106  
Dawson Chi  529  72  
Butler SF  622  108  
Grace Chi  589  72  
Robens SO  556  t04  
TGwynn SO  573  80  
Duncan Cln  434  67  
Sandberg Chi  615  t16  
LoSm~h All  488  72  
LHarrls LA  43t  61  
Gant Atl  575  t07  
Bonds Pit  519  104  
Larl<ln Cin  614  85  
Daniels LA  450  81  
Wallach Mon  826  69  
WCiarkSF  BOO  91  
Coleman Stl  497  73  
Kruk Phi  443  52  
Mitchell SF  524  90  
DeShields Mon  499  69  
Alomar SO  586  eo  
Raines Mon  457  65  
Jefferies NY  803  96  
VanSlyke PI!  493  67  
Treadway All  474  56  
Justice Atl  439  76  
Guerrero StL  498  42  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
TEAMBArnNG  
AB  R  
Boston  5516  699  
Cleveland  5484  732  
Kansas City  5488  707  
Toronto  5589  767  
Minnesota  5499  666  
Calllornla  5570  690  
Seattle  5474  640  
Texas  5469  676  
Detroit  5479  750  
Chicago  5402  682  
Milwaukee  5504  732  
Oakland  5433  733  
Baltimore  5410  669  
New Vorl<  5483  803  
INDIVIDUAL BATIING  
410 or IliON-' 11-'8.  
AB  R  
Brett KC  544  82  
RHdsn Oak  489  119  
Plmero Tax  598  72  
Trammell Del  559  71  
Boggs Bsn  619  89  
EManlnez Sea  487  71  
GrlyJr Sea  597  91  
McGriff Tor  557  91  
CJames Cie  528  62  
Puckett Min  551  82  
Greenwell Bsn  610  71  
Burks Bsn  588  89  
Franco Tex  582  96  
Harper Min  479  61  
Sheffield Mil  487  67  
Jacoby Cle  553  77  
Alomar Cle  445  60  
DParl<er Mil  610  71  
JoReed Ban  598  70  
Hrbek Min  492  61  
Quintana Ban  512  56  
Fisk Chi  452  65  
Kelly NY  641  85  
Wohnson Chi  541  76  
Molitor Mil  418  64  
Baines Oak  415  52  
ADavls Sea  494  63  
Elsenrelch KC  496  61  
Sierra Tax  608  70  
Guillen Chi  516  6t  

H 1466 1474 1436 1456 1396 1429 1399 1410 1410 1376 t363 t300 
H 
t68 184 t48 192 164 192 182 172 177 133 188 142 131 174 156 185 133 185 176 145 129 t52 t44 168 131 171 140 134 124 140 
H 1502 1465 1464 1479 1458 1448 1419 1416 1418 1393 t408 1379 t328 t322 
H t79 159 191 t70 187 147 179 167 158 164 t8t 174 172 141 t43 162 129 176 173 141 t47 129 183 154 1t9 118 140 139 170 144 
HR 
125 136 129 152 138 123 73 172 103 162 114 94 
HR 
3 
26 6 
9 27 3 
9 9 4 
10 40 9 2 32 33 7 27 21 19 6 7 35 4 6 9 15 17 11 28 13 
HR 
106 110 tOO 167 100 147 107 110 172 106 128 164 132 147 
HR 
14 28 14 14 6 
11 
22 35 12 12 t4 21 1t 6 10 14 9 21 5 22 7 t8 15 1 12 t6 17 5 16 1 
Ill 
644 
649 669 680 693 628 554 734 618 636 807 537 
Ill 62 95 72 59 100 44 82 44 72 55 100 42 29 84 114 67 94 98 95 39 67 93 45 60 62 68 
77 59 78 80 
RBI 
661 675 660 729 627 646 610 641 714 637 681 693 623 561 
RBI 
87 61 89 89 63 49 80 88 70 80 73 89 69 54 67 75 66 92 52 79 67 65 61 51 45 65 68 51 96 58 
Pel 
.265 .263 .262 .261 .259 .257 .256 .256 .255 .250 .250 .242 
Pel 
.335 .330 .328 .325 .310 .309 .309 .309 .309 .306 .306 . 305 .304 .303 .301 .301 .296 .296 .293 .292 .291 .290 . 289 .287 .287 .284 
.284 
.283 .282 .281 
Pet .272 .267 .267 .265 .265 .260 .259 .259 .259 .258 .256 .254 .245 .241 
Pet .329 .325 .319 .304 .302 .302 .300 .300 .299 .298 .297 .296 .296 .294 .294 .293 .290 .289 .289 .287 .287 .285 .285 .285 .285 .284 .283 .280 .280 .279 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBAll American l..eegue SEATILE MARINERs-Named Kendall Caner and John Ramey scouts. National Lague MONTREAL EXPOs-Purchased the contract of Gllbeno Reyes, catcher, from Indianapolis of the American Association. Sent Orlando Mercado, catcher, and Yorkls Perez, pncher, to Indianapolis. Released Johnny Paredes, Infielder. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE&-Demoted Darold Knowles, pitching coach, to their minor-league system. Waived Tommy Barren, second baseman, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Auoctetlon HOUSTON ROCKET&-Signed Willie Bland, forward-guard, to a one-year contract. MILWAUKEE BUCK&-Signed Jay Taylor, guard, to a one-year contract. MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVE&-Agreed to terms with Fenon Spencer, center, on a five-year contract. ConUnenllll Baakelball Aa8oclaUon ALBANY PATROON&-Signed Ben McDonald, forward, and Kevin Houston, guard. LACROSSE CATBIRD&-Signed Todd Mitchell, forward. 
FOOTBAll 

National Football League ATLANTA FALCON&-Signed William Evers, cornerback. Waived Darron Norris, running back. Activated nm Gordon, safety; Mike Pringle, running back; Reggie Redding, tackle; and George Thomas, wide receiver, from injured reserve and placed them to the practice roster. BUFFALO BILL&-Signed Clarkston Hines, wide receiver; Pat Marlatt, defensive end; and Vernon Turner, running back. GREEN BAY PACKER5-Signed Pete Shons, defensive end, and Craig Hudson, tight end, to the practice roster. LOS ANGELES RAIDER&-Signed Joe Cormier, linebacker; Rich Banlewski, tight end; and Marcus Wilson, defensive back, and assigned them to the practice roster. LOS ANGELES RAM&-Signed Marcus Dupree, running back; Jim Price, tight end; and Derric Carr, defensive end, and assigned Price and Carr to the practice roster. PHOENIX CARDINAL&-Signed Amod Field, wide receiver, to the practice roster. SAN DIEGO CHARGER&-Signed John Carney, kicker, and Donnie Elder, cornerback. Placed Joe Fuller, cornerback, on injured reserve. Released Mike Wlthycombe, offensive tackle. SEATILE SEAHAWK&-Signed Trey Junkin, center. Released Michael Morris, center. 
HOCKEY National Hockey Laague HARTFORD WHALER&-Traded Joel Quenneville, defenseman, to the Washington Capitals for future considerations. MONTREAL CANADIEN5-Signed Brent Gilchrist, center, to a one-year contract. TORONTO MAPLE LEAF&-Signed Drake Barehowsky, defenseman, and Felix Potvin, goa~ender, to multiyear contracts. WINNIPEG JETs-Reassigned Simon Wheeldon and Jeff Parl<er, centers, to Moncton of the American Hockey League and Stu Sames, center, to the Canadian National Team. 
Amertcan Hockey League CAPITAL DISTRICT ISLANDER&-Released Paul Cohen, goaltender; John Bergeron and Tony Schmalzbauer, defensemen; and Phil Huber and Steve Young, forwards. 
COLLEGE NCAA-Placed Nonhwestern Louisiana on probation for three years and banned the men's basketball team from postseason play for two years for violating NCAA policy. 
BASEBALL STANDINGS  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
e.! Dfvllllon w L  Pet.  Cll  
x-Pittsburgh 95 67 New Vorl< 9t 71  .588 .562  4  
Montreal 85 77  .525  10  
Philadelphia 77 84 Chicago 76 85 St. Louis 70 92  .478 .472 .432  17 112 t8 112 25  
West Dfvllllon W L  Pet.  Cll  
x-Cinclnnatl 91 71  .562  
Los Angeles 86 75 San Francisco 85 77  .534 .525  4 112 6  
Houston 75 87  .463  16  
San Diego 74 87 Atlanta 65 97  .460 .401  16112 26  
x-clinched division tnle  
TUMday'a GarMa Cincinnati 3, Houston 2  
Montreal 2, St. louis 1  
Chicago 3, Philadelphia t  
Pittsburgh 9, New Vorl< 4  
Atlanta 16, San Francisco 7  
Los Angeles 8, San Diego 7, 10 Innings  
Wed.....&oy'a GarMa Ute GaiMe Not Included  
Houston 3, Cincinnati 2  
Montreal 9, St. Louis 2  
New York 6, Pittsburgh 3  
San Francisco 6, Atlanta 3  
Chicago al Philadelphia (n)  
San Diego at Los Angeles (n)  
Season Ends  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
e.! Dfvllllon  
w L Pet  Cll  
y-Boslon 87 74 .540 Toi'l>nlo 86 75 .534  1  
Detroit 78 83 .484  9  
Cleveland 77 85 .475  10 112  
Baltimore 75 85 .469  t1 1/2  
Milwaukee 73 88 .453  14  
New Vorl< 67 94 .4t6  20  
West Dfvllllon  
W L Pet  Cll  
x-Oakland 103 59 .636  
Chicago 94 67 .584 Texas 83 78 .516  8t/2 19 112  
California 80 82 .494  23  
Seattle 77 85 .475  26  
Kansas City 75 86 .466 Minnesota 74 88 .457  27 112 29  
x-cllnched dlvtsion tkle  
y-cllnched tie for division title  
TUMday'a GarMa  
New York 4, Detroit 1  
Chicago 3, Boston 2, 11 Innings  
Toronto 2, Baltimore 1  
Cleveland 13, Kansas City 3 Seattle 3, Minnesota 0  
Milwaukee 1, Texas 0  
Oakland 6, California 4  
Wedrweday's GarMa  
late GarMS Not Included  
Cleveland 5, Kansas City 3  

Minnesota 7, Seattle 4 California t1 , Oakland 6 Detroit at New York (n) Chicago at Boston (n) Toronto at Baltimore (n) Texas at Milwaukee (n) End Regular Season 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Saturday, October 6 
Stanford vs. FOOTBALL, 12:10 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium . VOLLEYBALL hosts Golden Dome Classic: 
Hofstra vs. Notre Dame, 10 a.m. In JACC. LSU vs. Oklahoma, 12 p.m. In JACC. Oklahoma vs. Hofstra, 66p.m. In JACC. LSU vs. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. In JACC. 
Creighton va. WOMEN'S SOCCER, 8 p.m. 
Sundr{, October 7 MEN'S SOCCER hosts Irish Soccer Classic: Ohio State vs. Western Michigan, 12:30 p.m. at Krause Stadium . Creighton vs. Notre Dame, 3 p.m. at Krause Stadium. 
Thurect.y, October 4 
Wichita State vs. BASEBALL, 7 p.m. at Coveleskl Stadium. 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 

GAME 1: Thursday, 8:30 p.m.--·--­at Cincinnati GAME2: Friday, 3:20p.m. at Cincinnati GAME3: Monday, Oct. 8, 3:30 p.m. at Pittsburgh GAME4: Tuesday, Oct. 9, 8:20p.m. at Pittsburgh 
G~M.E..~~Jif n~~ry) ~. 
Wednesday, Oct. 10, 8:20p.m. at Pittsburgh 
GAME: 6: (iffi~S$!Jry) Friday, Oct.12, 8:20p.m. at Cincinnati 
GAM1:7: jifnectJ~ry) Saturday, Oct. 13, 8:20 p.m. at Cincinnati (All times EDT) 
F~, October 5 
CROSS COUNTRY hosts Notre Dame Invitational, 1·4 p.m. at Burl<e Go~ Course. Stanford vs. MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SWIMMING, 4 p.m. at Ro~s Aquatic Center. MEN'S SOCCER hosts Irish Soccer Classic: 
Western Michigan vs. Creighton. 5 p.m. at Krause Stadium. Ohio State vs. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. at Krause Stadium. 
Stanford vs. MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TENNIS, 6 
p.m. at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
VOLLEYBALL hosts Golden Dome Classic: LSU vs. Hofstra , 6 p.m. In the JACC. Oklahoma va. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. In the JACC. WichitaState va. BASEBALL, 8:30p.m. at 
Coveleskl Stadium. Lewis vs. WOMEN'S SOCCER, 5:30 p.m. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

GAME1: Saturday, 8:30p.m. at Boston 
GAME 2.:...:____ Sunday, 8:20p.m. at Boston 
GAME3: Tuesday, Oct. 9, 3:30p.m. at Oakland 
GAME4: Wednesday, Oct. 1o, 3:20 p.m. at Oakland 
GAME 5: (if nectJssary) Thursday, Oct. 11, 8:20 p.m. at Oakland 
GAME 6: (if nectJssary) .....____ Saturday, Oct.13, 12:20 p.m. at Boston 
G~MI; 7: (if_~~ry) Sunday, Oct. 14, 8:20p.m. at Boston 
(All times EDT) 

--
~------~ 
Thursday, October 4, 1990
The Observer
page 14 
wsu 
continued from page 20 
Chris Wimmer and catcher Doug Mirabelli pace the team offensively. McCloughan hit .340 and Wimmer .322, and both were named to· the 1989 second-team All-America. Hall hit .336 and Mirabelli .302. 
Notre Dame 
For the Irish, viewers can ex­pect sophomore David Sinnes to start tonight's game. Sinnes, a first-team Freshman All­America pick, led the nation with a 1.05 ERA. He amassed a 9-2 record whUe acting primar­ily as a starter, but occasionally as a reliever. 
In the second game, Murphy is undecided whether sopho­more Pat Leahy (8-1, 3.14 ERA) or freshman Tom Price would get the call. 
For both games, a circling bus will transport fans to Coveleski, located in downtown South Bend. A bus will leave from the main circle tonight starting at 6 p.m. and tomor­row from Gate 10 of the JACC at 7:30p.m. 
Here's a look at the probable starters for Thursday's game: 
Catcher: Matt Krall was the 
backup catcher for senior cap­
tain Ed Lund last year. Krall hit 
.304 last year with one home run and six RBI in 46 at bats. If not Krall, last year's second baseman Cory Mee will be be­hind the plate. 
First Base: This year's cap­tain Joe Binkiewicz wUI return for his third year at-first. Binkiewicz hit .322 with four home runs and 29 RBI last sea­son, and also compiled a 4-4 record on the mound. 
Second Base: Expect fresh-
As skipper of Wichita, 


Simien 
continued from page 20 
incoming freshman, a member of the Football News Nifty 55 team, and rated the top outside linebacker in the nation by tal­ent scout Max Emfinger. 
What would make a player of such talent choose to enroll at a college so far from home? Several things. 
"I grew up in Los Angeles, and I grew up watching Southern Cal and UCLA. But by my senior year in high school, I was burned out on all of that," said Simien. "When I was a se­nior, Notre Dame just looked like the place to be at the time. Notre Dame looked like it was on the way up, and I wanted to be a part of it. 
"Coming to Notre Dame has been a real learning experience for me, too. I've grown more mature, and I've become more adult as a person. I'm really pleased with this team. It's pretty fun playing, but of course, I want to graduate in four years. If I could just real­ize my full potential, it would be unbelievable, but that is all I ask for." 
Stephenson 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Spor1s Editor 
Wichita State baseball coach Gene Stephenson may as well have given the Shockers its team name. 
Stephenson resurrected a program that had been dor­mant for seven years when he came over to Wichita State in 1977. Thirteen years later, Stephenson is 726 wins and two NCAA champi­onships richer, catapulting Wichita State into collegiate baseball national promi­nence. 
Quite a shocker. 
Stephenson's 726-235-3 record, a .755 winning per­centage, is third-best among active NCAA Division I coaches. He has coached the Shockers to 50 or more wins nine times in his 13-year tenure. His teams have amassed 60 wins four times, and three times (1982, 1985 
is winner 

Gene Stephenson 
of the Year. He also received that honor in 1982. 
The Shockers under Stephenson also have won the Missouri Valley Conference five times in the last six years, and Stephenson has been named MVC Coach of the Year seven times since 1980. 
A 1968 graduate of Missouri, Stephenson was named an assistant coach man Greg Layson to make an immediate impact. If he doesn't, Cory Mee may return. 


Third Base: Craig Counsell (.265, 4 HR, 34 RBI) has im­proved his fielding and will probably be a mainstay at third. 
Shortstop: Senior Mike Coss started 57 of 58 games last season, chalking up a .290 bat­ting average with two home runs and 33 RBI. He also led the team in sacrifices with 14. 
Left Field: Frank. Jacobs, previously a moonlighter for the football team, has decided that baseball is where his fu­ture lies, and with good reason. Jacobs hit .277 last year, but led the team in home runs (11), RBI (49) and walks (40). His raw power impressed scouts enough that the Houston Astros drafted him in the 15th round last summer. 
Center Field: Junior Dan 
Bautch puts his wheels to use. 
Bautch led the team with 29 
stolen bases last season, scor­
ing 35 runs on 35 hits. 
Right Field: Sophomore Eric Danapilis set the Midwestern Collegiate Conference ablaze, leading Notre Dame in hits (60), batting average (.429), slugging pet. (671) and on-base pet. (.509). His 60 hits were eight better than anyone else on the team, and he missed 18 games with a back injury. 
Designated Hitter: Pitcher 
Pat Leahy is a multi-talented 
player. The 6-7 sophomore 
went 1 for 3 last season, but 
Murphy has been impressed by 
Leahy's hitting prowess. Edwin 
Hartwell and Adam Maisano 
will get considerable time at 
DH as well. 
lVENTAL 
ILINSS 
AWARENFSS WEEK 
October 7-13, 1990 


great careers in FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
WITH 
COMPTROLLER'S ORGANIZATION 
explore opportunities in : 
AUDITING, ACCOUNTING, SYSTEMS AND TAX 
we seek candidates with degrees in: 
ACCOUNTING, ECONOMICS, BUSINESS, FINANCE, AND LIBERAL ARTS 
Come to our presentation/reception upper lounge-University Club 
WE WILL BE INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 30 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 
The Observer page 15 



• I

irish women sw1mmers ace an Olympian task 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The last thing the Notre Dame women's swimming team expects to do Is win Friday night's meet against Stanford. 
"Winning the meet Is nowhere on our list of realis­tic priorities," Irish coach Tim Welsh says. "We are swimming this weekend be­cause we love the game. Stanford is swimming this weekend because they love the game. The fact that they are faster than us actually excites us." 
Welsh's attitude is proba­bly a good one. The Irish really don't stand much of a chance against the Cardinal, who will feature world record holder Janet Evans and Summer Sanders, ranked third in the world in the 200-moi\:,r butterfly. The meet, which will be held at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 4 
p.m. Friday, will most likely be dominated by the visiting team. 
Welsh welcomes the chal­lenge. He says that the meet will be good for his program and help establish Notre Dame's image as a national contender. 
"We hope Stanford will set a lot of pool records this weekend," Welsh says. "Pool records define a level of ex­cellence for a program and we want that defined at the highest level. We want the Stanford swimming team to write their name all over our record book, and we want them to do it when they're swimming right next to us. We also want to get excited by how close we are to them." 
Leading the way for the Irish will be sophomore Tanya Williams, who quali­fied for the NCAA tourna­ment in the 200-yard and 400-yard individual medley 1990. After one year at Notre Dame Williams holds six school records. Welsh will not say which events Williams would participate in against Stanford. 
"The rules of a dual meet don't require you to an­nounce that. We will run a 
eneral format race, though, 
~~dit ~hamplonsP  
and the fastest people will swim In the fastest events," Welsh says. Other Irish swimmers to watch are sophomore Chrisy Van Patten and Katey Andrew in the sprint free events. The weekend will be an in­teresting learning experience for the swimmers from both schools. The members (lf the visiting team will d.f;tually stay with their Irish hosts. Welsh says that this will give his squad some insight on what it is like to live as a champion. "This will help build our program because it wiD al­low us to race, train and live with arguably the best team in the United States. The ex­perience of living together for the weekend will help us see what it's like to be that caliber of a team," Welsh says. The coaches just might learn a thing or two from the Stanford squad as well. "We will have our eyes open," Welsh says. "The truly great swimmers teach the coaches, although not vocally, of course. Coaches learn by watching. Coaches with good eyes can learn a lot at a meet like this." The Irish swim coach will also learn a bit about his own team. There wllll -. lot of situations for Welsh to evaluate against Stanford. "We have never competed this early in the season. Since we're just coming back from the summer, we want to check and see where ev­erybody stands at this point. The second thin~ is that for those who haven't done a lot of racing, we want to see how they will perform. We want to see how people maintain control of tech­nique and how they compete in a meet," Welsh says. With a superb Stanford squad coming In, the Irish will just enjoy the meet and not worry about winnin~. Earn ..... while youlearn. ManJ)<M'er is looking for students interested in earning great pay -plus commissions. We oHer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience. Plus tree use of a personal computer. If you're a full-time student, Sophomore or ab!M. with at least a B average and are computer familiar. Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales ol the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. For experience that pays, can today. Manpower, Inc. 320 W. LaSalle Ave. 234-0157 Contact: Kim Hall  

FREE 

VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending Notre Dame I Wichita State Baseball Game at Covaleski Stadium on Friday, October 5th at 8:30pm. 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending the Notre Dame I LSU volleyball game at the JACC on Saturday, October 6th at 7:30pm. 
® 

MAXWELL HOUSE COFFEE VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
All benefits of a regular Blue; nd Gold Card holder (except the three drawings for athletic tickets) 
S) 
Free Maxwell House Coffe: I Notre Damel4 oz.coffee mug 
.® 

Free Maxwell House cof' ~eat the Huddle during the month of November by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
® 

Free Crystal Light at tne Huddle during the month of April by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
Free drawings for VIP members only throughout the year for: Chicago Bulls Basketball Tickets Free Limo Service and Dinner at Eli's Place for Steak in Chicago One free round trip ticket to Spring Break 

-.. 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 
page 16 The Observer 
Irish, Cardinal to meet in pool 
By COQUESE WASHINGTON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame Men's Swim Coach Tim Welsh views his team's involvement in the Weekend of Champions as ex­cellent study for the Irish swimmers. The Irish and Cardinal squads will eat, live, and train together, as well as compete for superiority in the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday. 
Continuing the tradition of academic excellence, the Notre Dame swimmers will have a short lesson on what it takes to become, and remain, a colle­giate powerhouse in the pool. 
Irish women 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
With a vast amount of talent, but with only six monogram­wimmers on the roster, the ND women's tennis team is lacking only experience. 
The team will gain that experience very quickly when they take on the five-time defending NCAA champion, 
top-ranked  Stanford,  at  the  
Eck  Tennis  Pavilion  Friday  
afternoon.  

The Notre Dame team counts three freshmen among its top five players, while only one se­nior, Kim Pacella, is on the team's roster. Junior Tracy Barton led the team to a 17-8 record last year, qualifying it for the NCAA tournament. Barton, Pacella, sophomore Melissa Harris, and junior Christy Doran return, and will see action against Stanford. 
For the Stanford match, the three freshmen follow Barton at the second, third, and fourth spots. Christy Faustmann. from Aiken, S.C., Terri Vitale, out of 
Bradenton, Fla., and Lisa Tholen, of Wichita, Kan., have 
"We want to redefme normal­ity for the Rolfs pool," said Coach Welsh. "Bringing in Stanford this early in the sea­son will help us do that." 
Indeed, it should. Stanford finished last season with an outstanding third-place finish at the NCAA Championships, and this year's squad is backed by Jeff Rouse, a world record holder and NCAA champion in the breaststroke. The Stanford team also features the likes of distance freestyler Alec Kostich, a competitor in this summer's goodwill Games, and sprinter Erik Maurer. 
The Irish boast strong swimmers, in their own right. Senior captain Brian Rini, last year's MVP and university 

" "'~ W~eekend'o.f. ft 
L-._--=:....:..h:...:a:.:.m::...:..::.!!:P...;;;I...;;;o...;;;n..;;.s..:......_--....~ 
impressed Coach Jay Louderback throughout the preseason. 
"All three freshmen have 
played really well," he said. "I 
knew they'd come in and play at 
the top." 
Indeed, the freshmen must 
play at the top against 
Stanford, as the Cardinal has 
four of the top 11 players in the 
country. Faustmann will face 
Sandra Birch, who is ranked 
second nationally, while Vitale's 
opponent will be Teri 
Whitlinger, herself the seventh­
ranked player in the nation. 
Stanford's fourth seed, fresh­
man Laxmi Pouri, is ranked 
11th in collegiate tennis, and 
will meet Tholen. 
Barton, also ranked among 
the Too 40 nationally, will take 
on Debbie Graham, the #1 col-record holder in the 5UU-and 1000-yd freestyle, will lead a squad that features ten fresh­man. 
Senior Jim Byrne and sophomore John Godfrey hoi­ster the Irish backstroke events, and Colin Cooley, an­other university record holder, heads the Irish breaststroke events. All in all, the squad re­turns 13 letterwinners. 
"This is a great a chance to Bee hQw much wP. h:~vP. im­proved since last year," said Coach Welsh. "We also want to see each of our freshman race and try to fmd out which events suit them best. It's a good op­portunity for our captains to show their leadership in a meet, and generally an advantageous
opportunity for our program." 

face Stanford at Ecks 
legiate player in America. 
To say that the Irish have their work cut out for them is an understatement. 
"We really want to enjoy our­selves," said Louderback. "It's good for us. We've got nothing to lose." 
The team's season has just begun, and will not really be underway until February. The meeting with Stanford is only the second contest of the fall season. 
At the LSU Lady Tiger Invitational, the Irish earned a 13-12 record in singles compe­tition, highlighted by perfect records by Doran and Tholen, and a 6-5 record in doubles, in­cluding a 3-0 mark for Tholen and Vitale. 
Louderback has visions of an NCAA tournament invitation in 1991. The fall matches will, he hopes, lead the squad to this goal. "We're playing as much as we can this fall," he said. "Hopefully, these matches will give us a shot at staying in the Top 25." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

NVA Singles Racquetball tournaments will be held for gradlfac and IH men and women. One match will be played per week. Sign up at NVA by today. Call239-6100. 
NVA Co-Ree lnnertube Waterpolo sign ups end today. Rosters must have a minimum of 10 people, four female, but are not limited by hall. A $10 entry fee is due with rosters. Only the frrst 32 entries will be accepted. 
Attention novice crew members -Mandatory meeting today in 127 Nieuwland at 7:30p.m. 
"Walk-Away" -Sally Derengowski, Assistant Director of Non-Varsity Athletics, will be the guest walk leader today. The walk will commence at 12:10 p.m. at Washington Hall. Join Sally and discover what's new in NVA. 
All Salllng Club members are invited for dinner at the Rib Shack and bowling today. Meet at the Main Circle at 7 p.m. Drivers are needed. If you can drive, call Julie at x2950. 
ND/SMC Field Hockey has practice today form 4-6 
p.m. on the Astroturf. There is a game this Sunday in the North Shore Tournament. Call Suzanne at x4174 for more information. 
NVA IH Cross Country results -Grace won for the second week in a row and Bill Borgos of Keenan won the 
individual  competition  for  the  second  straight  seek.  
Sorgos's winning time wa s 13: 32.  
Today  Is  the  last  day  for  sign-ups  for  the  NVA  

horseback-riding trip on Sunday, Oct. 7th. Call 239-6100 for more details or register at NVA in the JACC. 




WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEK IN 
Thursday, October 4 Multicultural Coffeehouse w/ John Kennedy 8:00PM 
Friday, October 5 Dance to the tunes.played by one of your favorite DJs 
Saturday, October 6 Closed due to Football 

.. 
Game 

FREE 
APPLES 
(FOOD FOR THOUGHT ABOUT ACAREER IN ADVERTISING) 
Advertising demands a keenly educated mind. One instilled with curiosity, inspiration, and the vision to see what others don't. 
Ifyou like problem-solving for the fun of it, want your ideas heard, and thrive on responsibility, competition, and hard work-it may be right for you. 
Hear what some Notre Dame grads think about life in a very special kind of advertising agency. 
MBA's

Undergrads 
Monday, Oct. 8

Thursday, Oct. 4 
7:00pm6:00pm 

Upper Lounge,

Senior Bar University Club 
P.S. There really will be free apples! 
I
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 35 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601 
We work for these great clients: Allst.al.e, Amurol, Black & Df'cker, Commonwealth Edison, Oean Wilt~, First Brands, Genera1 MotoB, Green Giant, Hallmark Cards, H.J. Heinz, Heinz Pet Producta, Keebler, KeUogg's, Kraft General Fbods, McDonald's, McDonald's Owner.~ ofOlicagoland and Northwest. Indiana, Miller Brewing, Phihp Morris, Noxell, Plll!lbury, Procter&Gamble, Samsonlte, Schenley, Sealy, Seven-Up, MnJ. Smith's, StarKist Seafood, Tropicana, Unocal76, United Airlines. 
,.....---~-----------------~-----------~-----~-----------------~--------~ 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Dilucia leads NO vs.Stanford Bengals to keep pants 
By DAVE McMAHON s orts Writer 
P 
The Stanford men's tennis team, hoping to continue its dominance on the national level, enters the Weekend of Champions with one of the most talented teams ever assembled. 
With four players in the preseason Top 50, the Irish wJIJ have their hands full with the Cardinal when action gets underway Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The number one, two, and three singles matches begin at 6 p.m. 
Notre Dame All-American David DiLucia, 7-0 after being ranked 10th in the preseason Volvo Tennis Poll, will proba­bly face Stanford sophomore Jonathan Stark, ranked as the top collegiate player in the na­tion by the same poll, although the final Cardinal line-ups will not be announced until Friday. 
OILucia, looking to become the first two-time All­American in Irish tennis his­tory, is coming off a year in which he posted a dual-match record of 22-3 (.880). 
uYou can't place a value on what David means to Notre Dame tennis and what his presence will mean five years 
from now," says head coach Bob Bayliss. At number-two singles for the Irish is sophomore Chuck Coleman, coming off a strong 33-13 performance last year. The fourth year coach is pleased with his team's prepa­ration for the match with a team of Stanford's caliber. Although playing such a domi­nant team may seem over­whelming to some, big matches arc nothing new to the young Irish squad, which faced top ten teams Georgia and Texas Christian last year. After a year of collegiate ten­nis, sophomore Mark Schmidt, playing at number three sin­gles, is ready to go right after his opponent. uWe're used to playing great teams, and with the home court advantage, the crowd should help us out consider­ably," said the Atlanta native. ult builds a lot of confidence when we're out there and hear the crowd get behind us." After a 31-12 mark last year, Schmidt feels more comfortable with a year of experience behind him. ul'll definitely be more re­laxed than I was last year when we played TCU and Georgia," said Schmidt. uWhen you're inexperienced, you come into a big match like 

this too psyched up. Now that I've had a few big matches, I think I've found the perfect balance." Ron Rosas, a sophomore from El Paso, Texas, was 33­12 last year and won his last 14 matches. While Rosas is anxious to play what he says Is by far the biggest match of his young career, he thinks the Irish will do well. ult'll be really tough to get up for mentally, but of our team is familiar with them from junior tennis, so we know what to expect," said Rosas. 
The home court advantage could be a deciding factor in some of the matches, accord­ing to Rosas. 
uWhen you get on any kind of roll, the crowd really helps you keep the momentum. It's easy for the opposing team to get frustrated when we've got the crowd behind us." 
With a respectable showing against the three-time defend­ing national champions, the Irish may gain enough mo­mentum to propel them to the top of the pack in college ten­nis. 
on' says Coach Wyche 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Sam commissioner in light of what Wyche, saying he was trying to happened in New England that comply with a league directive said everyone had to have equal when he barred a woman from access," Wyche said. "After we the Cincinnati Bengals' locker got this letter, I went to our room, will keep his players in players and .s~id 'what do you uniform for 20 minutes after want to do? this week's game to adhere to He said he offered them four league policy. ideas-to put up a partition 
While reiterating his belief beyond which no reporter could that players shouldn't be inter-go; to keep them in uniform; to viewed in the nude by women, keep them on the field for in-Wyche said Wednesday he tervicws; or keep women out-would go out of his way to en-side but make any player the sure that female reporters will reporter wanted available. He have equal access to his play-said in view of the configura­crs. tion of the locker room at the 
The Bengals coach has been Kingdome, putting up a parti­threatened with a steep fine by tion seemed impractical. Wyche commissioner Paul Tagliabue added that they chose the a)­for banning Denise Tom of USA ternative of talking to women Today from the locker room outside the locker room. after Monday night's 31-16 loss "I handled it personally," he in Seattle. But Wyche said said of the dealings with Tom. Wednesday he has yet to hear "She said she wanted Boomer from the commissioner and Esiason and she got him with a Tagliabue's office said it was personal escort from the head unlikely there would be a ruling coach. I don't think anyone else until later this week. has gotten that. 
Wyche, sp~aking by conference "I didn't even think it was an call from Renton, Wash., where incident until I started getting the Bengals are training, said calls after the ~arne." 
that, in fact, it was a directive For this week's game with the 
from Tagliabue following Los Angeles Rams, Wyche said: 
incidents of alleged sexual "We'll resort to Plan B. We'll 
harassment of Boston Herald keep our players dressed for 20 
reporter Lisa Olson by several minutes and then we'll ask ev-
New England Patriots that led eryone to leave. Then, once they 
to Monday's incident. get dressed, we'lllct people 
"We got a letter from the back in if they want anything else. 
Fielder makes history by banging home runs 50, 51 
NEW YORK (AP) -Cecil Fielder became the first American Leaguer to hit 50 home runs since Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle did it 29 years ago, connecting Wednesday night in the fourth inning and later adding No. 51 In the final game of the season. 
"It was a lot of pressure," Fielder said. "I wouldn't wish that on anyone in baseball." 
The Detroit first baseman is the 11th player to hit 50 homers and the first since George Foster of the Cincinnati Heds in 1977. The feat has been accomolished 18 times. 
Fielder, who walked and lined out in his first two at-bats, sent a 2-1 pitch from New York Yankees rookie Steve Adkins into the first row of the upper­deck in left field in the fourth. He took four steps out of the batter's box, watched to see if the ball would hook foul, and when it didn't, he began jump­ing up and down and pumping both fists in the air. 
"It was a relief,'' he said. "I got so excited, I jumped for joy." 
The two-run homer put Detroit ahead 6-0. After strik­Ing out. increasing his major 

HEY NO/SMC Students ..... Do you know who are NO's biggest football fans? The clients of Logan Center 
Donate your Stanford Football tickets so they can see the game in person. 
Drop your tickets off at the Dining Halls this Wed., Thurs., and Friday at dinner or in Logan Center's mailbox at CSC. 
Questions: Janet 284-5090 Sally 283-3783 

league-leading total to 182, Fielder hit a three-run homer in the eighth ofT Alan Mllls into the lower deck in left. 
Fielder led the majors in homers and with 132 RBis this season. He had gone 2-for-21 since his last home run; his longest drought of the year without a homer was 45 at­bats. 
Fielder went 0-for-4 in each of the first two games of the sea­son-ending series at Yankee Stadium. He struck out five times, popped out twice and grounded to the mound. 
or the last five players to hit 50 home runs, four were later named Most Valuable Player. The only one who missed out was Mantle, who hit 54 homers to Maris' record 61 in 1961 in the home run race between Yankee teammates. 
For the second straight game, 
Tigers manager Sparky 
Anderson moved Fielder from the third spot in the lineup to second, hoping to get him an extra at-bat. Fielder drew a walk in a four-run first, capped by Gary Ward's grand slam, 
and lined out to left in the sec­ond. 
The historic homer was the 
third given up by Adkins in 24 
innings. 
Fielder, 27, finished far ahead in the race for the home-run ti­tle. Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs is second in the majors with 40 and Mark McGwire of Oakland was sec­ond In the AL with 39. 
Last year, Fielder hit 38 home runs for Hanshin In Japan's Central League. He spent his first four years in the majors with Toronto, but was unable to break Into the starting lineup and went overseas. 
The Tigers signed Fielder last December as a free agent, giv­ing him a two-year, $3 million contract. At the time, many criticized the move, saying the Tigers had spent too much on an unproven player. 
"The Detroit Tigers took a chance," Fielder said. "They believed and a lot of other peo­ple didn't believe. Things were said that weren't nice about Cecil Fielder, even before spring training." 

I! I I ALUMNI ~~~~~"'~''*~ ' '""'''""·~-­
.... SENIOR ~r<=~~"" · · 
i!:CLUBLast Night with 
CLIFF ERICKSON 
and bring your cup! 
HAPPY 21st AMY LOWERY 
You've 
come a 
long way, 
Baby! 
Love, 
from tJ 11 your 
friends 
a e 18 
Belles tie when the dark comes 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team {7-1-1) tied St. Joseph College 0-0 yesterday at Saint Mary's Field in a hard­
fought  match  against  the  
tough Division II squad.  
The Belles made  an  im­ 

pressive showing yesterday dominating both on offense and defense. Unfortunately the Belles were unable to score before play was sus­pended due to darkness after ten minutes of the tiebreaker period. 
Saint Mary's contained the aggressive St. Joseph team throughout the very physical match. The Belles had many scoring opportunities but they couldn't get on the scoreboard. 
"The team showed lots of composure," said head coach Tom Van Meter. "We played extremely well overall con­sidering the wet and windy conditions." 
Saint Mary's, which lost to St. Joseph last year, pulled together on defense and of­fense. 
"The defensive attitude of the team was great," Van Meter said. 
The Belles face Hope College Friday afternoon at home. This game, along with the next two home games, is critical for the Belles. 
"The next three teams are all common opponents of the seventh ranked team in the nation, Kalamazoo College, "said Coach Tom Van Meter. "The next three games will be good measur­ing sticks for Saint Mary's." 
1\IENfAL 
ILU\ESS AWARENESS WEEK 
"A GENUINE TRIUMPH 
-Vlnccnt Canby, ntE NEW YORK 11MES 
"****!AMASTERPIECE!
-DIIrid Edrladn, NEW YORK POST 
'1WO ENTHUSIASTIC TIIUM8S UJ 
-SISKEL a: EBEilT 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI & SAT 
7:15, 9:45 
The Observer 
Champs 
continued from page 20 
Even though both teams have 
recently appeared more 
adept at losing, go with the 
Bucs. 
While the Reds surely deserve 
their NL West crown, holding 
the lead from day one to day 
162, any team that would let a 
Hershiser-less, bullpen-less 
Dodger squad chase them has 
got to be worried. 
And it's evident that they are. 
After cruising through the 
spring and early summer, 
Cincinnati manager Lou Piniella 
suddenly looked around, real­
ized his team was on top of the 
heap and gulped. 
The team gulped with him. 
An 11 game lead July 23 fell to 
3 1/2 numerous times in the 
year's closing heats, when re­
ally good teams usually find ex­traordinary ways to pull out wins. The Reds just got worse. 

The Pirates, on the other hand, had to fight off a strong surge by the New York Mets, but went on an 11-game win­ning tear to clinch the title. Even though they split their games with the Reds this year. Pittsburgh swept their Western Division counterparts in August just as the Mets challenge be­came apparent. This would be the Pirates' year if Oakland wasn't so good. 
In addition, while Pittsburgh has two explosive MVP candi­dates in Barry Bonds and Bobby Bonilla, Cincinnati will struggle to produce anything resembling an offense unless the ailing Bill Doran (hospitalized), Chris Sabo (strong start, quick stop) and Eric Davis (sore shoulder, grumpy ego) recover in a hurry. 
But pitching, as usual, will ul­timately decide who wins the National League. Here, soon­to-be Cy Young Award winner Doug Drabek, Zane Smith (1.30 ERA since being acquired Aug. 8), and rookie Randy Tomlin will outperform the collapsible Cincinnati corps that is depend­ing too heavily on its relievers while praying Danny Jackson and Tom Browning can recover from injuries and fill the void created by All-Starstruck Jack 

Armstrong. 
So the Bucs will down 
the Reds in six and the A's will 
sweep a baffled BoSox club. 
How then, exactly, will Oakland 
dominate the NL pennant win­
ner? 
Look at the list of league 
leaders. Rickey Henderson, 
Mark McGwire, NL batting 
champ Willie McGee and That 
Other Guy Who Makes Too 
Much Money place at or near 
the top in categories such as hits, home runs, RBis an 
stolen bases. You don't nee much more than that. Of course, the A's have more. Their incredible pitching sta of three Cy Young candidates eventual winner Bob Welch, Dave Stewart and DennL Eckersley -has demonstrated how easy it can be to send frus­trated batters back to the dugout. 
Meanwhile, this Oakland tea knows all too well how to los ('88) and win ('89) Worl Series and they show no incli­nation of returning to their dis astrous form of two years ago Manager Tony LaRussa is con­fident and he should be; thi team is the only one of the fou on any kind of victory mission. 
There must be some way to avoid doing the same thing
for the nextforty years. 
Life's been pretty good sofar. You've 
kept moving-taken all the right 
steps along the way (for the most part). And now you're ready for the 
biggest step. 

You'll be getting your degree from 
a top school. You're about to find a 
great job. 

The question is: which job? And will it have the potential to interest you for a whole career? 
You've probably heard the story of the job applicant who said he was a shoe salesman with fifteen years expe­rience. "No:· corrected the recruiter interviewing him, "you've had six months experience thirty times:· 
Isn't there some way to keep challenging yourself in new and 
Cll990 Andersen Consultm,g, AA & Co., S.C. 
different areas? 

Andersen Consulting offers you the opportunity to work on a variety of projects-with clients in a wide range of industries. 
We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business advan­tage. Every hour oievery business day, we implement a solution to help one ofour more than 5,000 clients worldwide. 
What makes that possible is the quality ofour people. And the quality of our training. We're known for both. 
Because business and tech­nology are ever -changing, we see training as a continuing process. And our $123-million Centerfor Profes-
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportunity employer. 
sional Education in St. Charles, Illinois, is just one measure of our commitment. We train you for a career-notjust a job. 
Does the idea offorty years of knowing exactly what you'll be doing each week scare you? Then don"t settle for that. Demand challenge and variety. Come talk to us. And find out more about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
Where we go from here"' 

Information session -October 4th, 8·1 0 p.m. South Dining Hall -Faculty Dining Room. Interviews -October 5. 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 J. R. ·s bailiwick 63 Height: Comb. Thursday, October 4, 1990 35 Kin of hie or hoc form
1 Indian princess 

noon Lecture (Brown Bag Lunch), "Reflections on a 64Painter­
37 Not sanguine 
5 Univ. of Calif. 

Visit to Vietnam and Cambodia." Father Wilson D. della Francesca 
39 French historian 
site, with 10

Miscamble. C.S.C., Assistant Prof., Institute for 
Across 40 College at 5 & &5 Kalman 
International Peace Studies. Room 101, Law School. 1 0 Across operetta
10 See 5 Across

Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies. named after 66 Espied
14 Trammell of the 
loser to 
Tigers 

Eisenhower 67 Records 15 Decorate 
43 Painter El-68 Catchall abbr. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
16 Actress Virna 44 Air: Comb. form 69 Deuce topper 

Thursday 
45 Art cult 70 Path preceder 17 Zilch 46 Writers Ernest 71 Kind of job 
7 p.m. "Ethic in Business," Bill Fisher, former ND foot­18 Unit of 
and Anya 

ball player and coach and present GM marketing director. capacitance 
48 Antitoxins
Room 124, Hayes-Healy. 19 It, in Italy DOWN
50 In the go 
20 Loser in 1972 
position

Friday 1 Hit the doorbell 
23 Shirt type 

51 Middle East 
2 Medicinal plant 24 Sped bread

12:15 p.m. Friday forum at the Center for Social Con­3 Billionth: Comb. 
25 Part of a TV set 53 Literary
cerns, theme: The Year of the Women. "A Catholic Femi­form 
monogram
28 Specialty at

nist: Oxymoron?" Sister Regina Coli, associate specialist 4 Like neon
U.C.L.A. 55 Loser in 1988
in the department of theology. Room 124, Center for So­
5 Kind of file 

cial Concerns. Brown Bag or soup and bread for $1. 
6 Huxtable and 

Sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Rehan
the Ordination of Women. 
7 Standard 8 Pamphlet 

12:15 p.m. "Europe's Future Architecture a.nd 
9 "Susan-," 25 Catches flies 41 Where Ephesus 56 Bakery worker 
Germany's Role in It." Dr. Gerd Langguth, Representation 
1937 play 26 Core group was 57 Canadian
of European Communities in Bonn. Washington Hall. 
42 Jose lturbi was Indian10 Winner over
Sponsored by the Committee for European Studies, The 
27 Lease again 
Blaine (1884) one sa Family branch 
Kellogg Institute, ISLA and the Departments of History, 129 Sky Bear 47 "-the Rear,"
and Harrison 59 Endure, in 
t.overnment and International Studies and Sociolos.rv. 30 Quotes old song 
(1892) Edinburgh
49lnvite 
11 Start the day 32 Actresses 60 "Kiss Me,-"
52Ak a 
12 U.N. Security Eilbacher and 61 Keoghs' kin 
54 Let upMENUS Council member Kirk 55 Vertical spar 62 Smooth as ­13 National park in 33 Battery terminal Utah 34 French
Saint Mary's Answers to any three clues in this 
legislature
Notre Dame 1=+::-:+:--t:-;-1 21 Aitch preceder puzzle are available by touch-tone t=+::+.--t=-1 22 Emulate D. phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each
36 Harsh sound 
Italian Lasagna

Stuffed Pork Chops Webster 38Simple minute).
Chinese Pepper Steak Baked Cajun Cod Shrimp Fried Rice Pasta Bar Deli Bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 



WELL ,MR. .$Mini, IT APPEARS THAT Yov ARE sum:RJNGI FROM AN ILLN£55 CoMMON AMON 6J CARTooN CHARACTERS YOUR A i>£ -COMIC.US VERBOSnM: THE. INABILITY TO FIT AL'-y()l) 
HAVE TO '5AY WI'NilN YOliR DIALOGJU£ BitU.OON. 
"Step back, Loretta! ... It's a red-hot poker!" 
~ "Isn't it time you got up and THE SECOND CITY ©®rruil®M® fiD@[fi)cW® ~ ~ said something at the NATIONAL TOURING COMPANY Bone Forest • • ...OPEN FORUM?" TO~~G[}j)T, October 4 •
iC Topic: "Racism" XYZ Affair • ~ lffHHS 1\fFTlE!RliNJOOINJ, 8:00PM Friday, October 5 ~ """ October 4 at 12NOON Washington Hall 5PM at Theodore's ~ 
• 
Fieldhl'~Use Mall Tickets are $5 at Lafortune Info. Desk. .Em.el iC 

• 
~ l©~i@h~. October 4: iC ~ "feminism" f! ~ ~~\"<)' 1\!rp~:W.Il«il at SPM and 10 PM. tt DALE O'LEARY, Guest Speaker ~ s'r<0 --Montgomery Theatre( LaFortune) ~ 

• 
(F.':> T " 0 Tickets are $1. 


~ TOINH~fHI ' October 4 IFil'idla~~ a~~d Sa~h~ll'adl~. October 5 and 6: 
• ~ 7:45PM ~~ll©ik !Rl~~ftil at 8PM and 1 0:15PM. iC i( Hayes-Healy, Room 122 --Cushing Auditorium iC ~ FREE! Tickets are $2. STUDENT UNION BOARrt 
~*******************************************~****ie ..
_ 

-~-~---------------­
Sports 
Thursday, October 4, 1990 
Irish baseball will kickoffWeekend of Champions 
APPt-oo 
James Joseph of Auburn is tackled by Tennessee defenders in last Saturday's game which ended in a controversial tie. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
~ ~n.d,~f~
When 1989 NCAA Baseball 
~ 
Champion Wichita State takes to the field at Stanley Coveleski 
hamp10ns
Stadium tonight at 7 p.m., Irish ~.-__;____..::.._____...~ Head Coach Pat Murphy can Dame football and baseball on take all the credit. the same billing," said Murphy, Sure, it's the Weekend of referring to the "Battle Before Champions, and much planning the War" two years ago, in and effort was spent in Notre which the Notre Dame and Dame's attracting such a Miami baseball teams played a prominent baseball program. two-game series during the But Pat Murphy isn't just re-Irish-Miami football weekend. sponsible for convincing "The same type of talent at­Wichita State coach Gene tracts people to the games, and Stephenson to come here. He's it's an obvious lead-in to the responsible for the entire fall football games. We do what­sport concept. ever we can do to help the total "When we rrrst played (in the picture of athletics here at fall it was ust to get Notre Notre Dame, but these type of 
No d~ubt.about the vict<?r; the As Will take the Senes 
I'm going to go out on a real limb here: the Oakland A's will win the 1990 World Series. 
I know, I know, it's not the most outrageous prediction, but sometimes you just can't argue with the facts. It's boring, too; repeats usually are. Unfortunately none of this year's un­derdogs could muster the strength to overtake any of the division leaders and battle for what could have been 

wide open playoff berths. Chris CooneyThe most exciting, or comical, as I prefer to call it, part of this season's Assistant Sports Editor 
finale surrounds (surprise, surprise) the Boston Hed Sox and their infamous ability to nauseate the masochistic fans who loyally ride the team's annual rollercoaster into obliv­ion. Statisticians have recently determined that Boston's quality of play in a game is inversely proportional to the im­portance of its outcome. 
Of course, the Sox winning the AL East delays the inevitable. Meanwhile, those fans born after 1918 will try to replace visions of grounders rolling past haggard infielders with delusions of Roger Clemens pitching eight straight per­fect games and winning it all for his team. Trust me, my roommate is from Massachusetts and I've seen it happen. 
So who will Oakland beat for the World Championship? Both the Cincinnati Reds and Pittsburgh Pirates have spent the last few weeks plodding towards the finish line with one eye glancing fearfully behind them. 
see CHAMPS I page 18 

Holtz would go for the victory 
Auburn head coach Pat Dye heard the crit­ics even before he sent kicker Jim Von Wyl 
onto the field. 
With his Tigers trail­ing Tennessee 26-25 and only 1:56 remain­ing in Saturday's Southeastern Conference matchup, Dye chose to go for the 


extra point instead of the two-point conver­sion and 

preserve Auburn's undefeated record and national championship hopes. 
Cries of "Tie" Dye immediately followed, but the Tiger coach stood by his decision, pointing out that a tie keeps Auburn in con­tention for both the SEC title and the national championship. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz was asked recently how he would respond in a similar situation. 
"I guess you'd say my philosophy is to go for the win," said Holtz, "but there are a couple things that determine it. One, do we have a good two-point play? If we had to go for two three different times and used up ev­ery two-point play we had, chances of us making the two-point conversion would not be very good and we would probably kick it." • 
Holtz faced such a decision against Penn State in 1987 when the Irish scored with 31 seconds remaining to draw to within one 


to the football team. 
O.K., now to baseball: Tonight's game between the Irish and the Shockers is the first-ever between the two teams. Wichita State, in 14 years under Stephenson, has never played a four-year college in the fall season before. The Shockers usually play junior colleges during their fall-season tune up. 
Wichita State 
Last vear. Wichita State had 
a young pitching squad but still 
managed a 45-19 record and
Pat Murphy 

an appearance in the NCAA weekends are all predicated on tournament. This year, the the schedule of the football Shockers return their entire 
team." ~tarting rotation, five regulars 
In recognition of the football m the lineup and nine other let­team's tremendous influence, terwinners. we pause one moment in thanks The team's youth last year 

Simien is up to the challenge 
8 DAVID DIETEMANslarts Writer 
Who is the best linebacker in college football? 
While the names of Michael Stonebreaker, Donn Grimm, Andre Jones, Devon McDonald, Alfred Williams (Colorado), Kanavis McGhee (Colorado), and Maurice Crum (Miami) may be given in response to that question, there is another name lurking close behind. 
Eric Simien. 

A sophomore outside linebacker from Los Angeles, his nickname is "Reckless," and he strives to live up to it. Last year, Simien saw action in 12 games, missing only the matchup with Michigan State. During his playing stint, he made 69 appearances on spe­cial teams, and added 11 more special teams appearances against Colorado in the Orange Bowl. 
Over the whole of 1989, he recorded nine tackles (two solo, seven assisted) and was also awarded a Notre Dame mono­gram. Last week against Purdue, he twice sacked 

Eric Simien 
Boilermaker quarterback Eric Hunter tin the fourth quarter for a net loss of 13 yards. 
Yet while his efforts may be the apertif of some college football gourmets, he has not gone unnocticed by the discern­ing palate of Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
"I though Eric Simien had an excellent football game last Saturday," said Holtz. "He was in on 11 plays, had two sacks and a quarterback hurry. He plays very hard and he's very talented. 
"He's been handicapped by a calf problem, but I think that point at 21-20. Quarterback Tony Rice kept the ball on the two-point conversion attempt but was dropped behind the line of scrim­mage. 
As it turned out, Holtz didn't have much choice in the matter. Notre Dame entered the game with an 8-1 record and anything short of a win would have eliminated the Irish from national championship contention. 
"The situation then was that the only chance we had for the national championship at that time was to win," said Holtz. "A tie would have eliminated us as well. We weren't involved in a conference race. If a tie can still keep you in the national championship race and you don't feel you have a good chance to make the two-point conversion, then you 
probably ought to kick it. 
"Pat Dye chose to go for the tie in his first conference game. That's his decision." 
Quick tackle Gene McGuire had arthro­scopic surgery performed on his knee Sunday. He tore cartilage in the knee Saturday against Purdue and is expected to be out two to four weeks. 
McGuire will be replaced in the starting lineup by Winston Sandri, who returned only last week from a severely sprained knee. 
Tony Brooks started his first game at tail­back on Saturday, temporarily displacing quad-captain Ricky Watters. Despite the 
see NOTES I page 15 
caused the squad to hit for its lowest average under Stephenson (.298) and the sec­ond-lowest number of home runs (43). 
In tonight's game, Stephenson has indicated that he will start sophomore Kennie Steenstra (9-2, 2.47 ERA ·last year, second-team freshman All America). When the two teams square otT for another meeting tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. junior Darrin Paxton (12-4, 
3.49 ERA) wiU get the call. 
The Shockers send a strong contingent of sophomores to the plate tonight as well. Infielder Scott McCloughan, outfielder Carl Hall, Infielder 
see WSU I page 14 
he is really starting to come along now. He has rehabilitated that [injury] pretty well. Hopefully he'll be able to be out on the lield a lot more than what he has been in the past because his performances cer­tainly justify him getting more 
playing time." 

A stern and independent spirit, the 6-3, 221-pound Simien possesses what some re­fer to as the linebacker mental­ity. 
"The player that I like best to watch is Lawrence Taylor of the New York Giants," said Simien. "Derrick Thomas is fun to watch, too. In high school, I played defensive tackle for three years, but I like outside linebacker better. What I like most about it is the quarter­back sacks." 
While a player at Junipero Serra High School, he racked up 239 career tackles, as well as 40 sacks over his junior and senior years. As a result of his high school efforts, Simien was a SuperPrep All-American, one of The Sporting News top 100 
see SIMIEN I page 14 





