~--~---------~ ---~-~----~--------­
-----~------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 100 THURSDAY, MARCH 1,1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Soviets enact land reform 
MOSCOW (AP) -Legislators 
the Kremlin leadership hopes to overwhelmingly approved a bill raise farm productivity, which Wednesday that allows Soviets is notoriously low on those to acquire land and bequeath it farms. to their children, a major Rural families already pro­modification of decades of duce one-fourth of the coun­state control of land. try's gross agricultural produc­
The law. however, stops short tion, including nearly 30 per­of legalizing full private owner­cent of the meat, milk and eggs ship of property by strictly for­on individual plots they are al­bidding the sale of land. Under lowed to exploit. the new law, plots only can be In a poll published Wednesday leased, and the lease prices will in the newspaper Izvestia, 40 be set by the state. percent of those queried said The measure was part of a Mikhail Gorbachev they were eager to become 
comprehensive package de­day's edition of the newspaper individual farmers. signed to give the force of law Komsomolskaya Pravda, The Supreme Soviet legisla­to the economic and social re­economist Pavel Voshchanov ture first voted separately on forms championed by President welcomed the reform as a first each chapter of the 52-article Mikhail Gorbachev. The official step to reversing a situation in measure, then approved the 
news agency Tass called it "a which the Soviet Union, with entire law 349-7 with 12 ab­major legal document of Soviet some of the richest farmland stentions. The full Congress of economic reform." on Earth, has become a net im­People's Deputies must now 
The law is to serve as the ba­porter of food. approve it. sis for further legislation by The Soviet Constitution says Wednesday's four-hour ses­each republic to regulate land "the land, its minerals, waters sion was the third time the distribution. and forests are the exclusive Supreme Soviet considered the 
State ownership of land, in­property of the state." The proposed so-called Law on scribed in the Soviet Constitu­Congress of People's Deputies, Land. During earlier debate, tion, has been a cornerstone of the Supreme Soviet's parent about 150 proposals and criti­communism since the 1917 rev­body, will be asked to change cisms of the bill were made. olution. But reformers and the Constitution when it meets Alexander Nikonov, the pres­economists repeatedly have March 12. ident of the Soviet Agricultural called for allowing private By altering the Constitution Academy who submitted the ownership as a way of spurring and allowing the roughly 23 bill, said about 40 percent of growth in the troubled econ­million people employed on the the original draft had been re­omy. 26,000 collective and 23,000 vised to accommodate the pro­
In a commentary in Wednes-state farms to acquire plots, posed changes. 
Computer program root of minority housing controversy 
By JOE MOODY to steer minority students into The new computerized hous·· Department, Volan, and Loya, something should be done AND KELLEY TUTHILL the same rooms when assigning ing program was supposed to met with Evelyn Reinebold, di­about it, according to Hines. News Writers the incoming freshmen. be primarily random, with no rector of student residences, Goldrick was contacted for concessions made except for John Goldrick, associate vice comment but he referred The After a controversy arose Sigi Loya, student senator, extreme cases. president for Resident Life, and Observer to Reinebold. 
questioning just how "random" said that he noticed that a However, through coopera­the computer programmer, to The explanation given by the the freshman housing assign­large number of minority stu­tion with the housing office, the ask for an explanation of why Administration for the dispro­ments were, the Administration dents were housed together in legal department compiled a the housing assignments did portionate assignments was agreed with the Student certain dorms and in certain list of 56 cases where at least not appear to be random. that the computer read names Government Legal Department sections. "We [Loya and other 2, 3, or 4 minority students They asked the representa­in order of confirmation to the to modify the computer pro­student leaders] tried to find were placed together in the tives of Residences to "alleviate University and assigned them in gram to ensure that dispropor­out what was going on," he same room, according to a re­the discrepancy between reality groups to fill rooms in the 
tionate placement would not said. port compiled by Greg Volan, and what they claim to be" dorms. occur in the future. He said that the Student research department commi~­random, said Hines. Minority students tended to The Legal Department be­Government Legal Department sioner of the Legal Department. At the Campus Life Council confirm late because many came concerned that the hous­was called in to investigate the Megan Hines, executive coor-meeting, Goldrick admitted that 
see DORMS I page 4
ing office perhaps had a policy issue. dinator of the Le!lal there was a problem and that 
Carter asks Contras to 'lay down their arms' and leave 
WASHINGTON (AP) • Ortega calls off attacks or. Former President Jimmy the Contras/ page 6 Carter, who played honest bro­
• Bush I Gorbachev discuss 
ker in the Nicaraguan elections, 
Nicaragua/ page 6 
called on the Contra rebels Wednesday to lay down their military action, that's obviously arms and remove "a military a very destabilizing factor," force threatening the country." Carter said. "I don't think there 
Carter commented after a 45-is going to be a guarantee of an minute meeting with Secretary orderly transition as long as of State James Baker, who told the Contras are a military force a Senate committee earlier that threatening the country." blending the rebels into the He commented in a curbside Central American country's po­news conference outside the litical life was a delicate prob­State Department. lem but one that would be re­On Capitol Hill, Baker de­solved. clared that "the war is over" in 
The former president said Nicaragua despite lingering what happens to the Contras mistrust by longtime foes. was "the key unresolved fac­He noted that a bipartisan tor" in Nicaragua now that policy agreement between the President-elect Violeta administration and Congress Chamorro has defeated Sandin­last year called for "voluntary ista President Daniel Ortega in reintegration" of the rebels un­an election Carter helped moni­der safe and democratic condi­tor after extensive discussions tions. with both sides. With Sunday's election victory 
"If you have an army on the by Chamorro and a request by edge of your country or in your 
see U.S. I page 4 
country that still threatens 


---------~--------~----------~-~--~--~---~----=-------c---~--"'11 
page 2 _ 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Conservatives look ahead to 1990s 
Conservatism is 
dead. 
So says David---------
Dinkins, New York's 
Democratic mayor. 
As communism begins 
to crumble, says 
Dinkins, the right 
wing will be without 
an enemy, and 
"without an enemy, 
they have no energy." Dave Bruner 
The eighties have Viewpoint Editor ended. The decade of --------­yuppies, materialism, Ronald Reagan. BMWs. tax cuts and Perrier is gone forever. The nineties will bring a kinder, gentler world: communism is crumbling; the cold war is dead; defense contractors are folding and Nicaragua has ousted the Sandinistas. 
Being a conservative just isn't fun any­more. "Republican" is a dirty word; "Conservative" is even worse. According to NOW and the ABA, at least 110 percent ot the country is pro-choice (though the Notre Dame Law School might disagree). The Contras are disbanding, and to top it all off, it's hard to find any good junk bonds. 
But conservatism isn't all washed up just yet. The Sandinistas may not give up power peacefully. and hope persists for a capital gains tax cut. Mario Cuomo still thinks he's a good Catholic, and the same Ted Kennedy who voted against John Tower seems to have his own problem keeping the cork in the bottle. 
Any conservative will tell you that not only is conservatism still alive, it is expanding into the youth of America. Traditional val­ues are making a comeback, a direct result of the Reagan era and Bush's emphasis on the family. Conservatives can remind them­selves that many of the great achievements of the past decade are a direct result of conservative v1s1on and policies. Conservatives who have fought for freedom and democracy are at last seeing freedom taking hold throughout the world. 
True conservatives are ready to build on their past suecesses, not rest on their lau­rels. The conservative of the nineties will be different than conservatives of the eighties. The conservative movement will be younger and more active. More college age freshmen are calling themselves conservative than ever before. This young and active element will energize the conservative movement in the nineties and push for social change. 
The new right is not reactionary but vi­sionary: enterprise zones for inner city economic development. Reducing America's health care costs by providing tax breaks directly to workers, not to businesses. Economic incentives for a clean environ­ment. A "family tax cut" instead of state­sponsored day care. 
Each day that passes brings news of an­other political upheaval in the world. The decline of the Warsaw Pact and the loss of global hegemonic stability places an even greater responsibility on the U.S. and the free nations of the world to maintain order. At the same time, we must ensure that the domestic economic recovery of the eighties expands to include everyone here at home. Young, activist conservatives are ready to make a positive change. 

PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today'a Staff: 
Systems

Nllws Production Maureen Nelligan Jeanne Blasi Molly Schwartz John O'Brien Greg Tice Deb Walker Joe Moody 
VIewpoint 
Business 
Katie Foster 

Mike Kolar Aalenl John Cronin 
Monica Yant Shonda Wilson Caroline Clarke 

Fran Moyer Ad Design 
Katie McBride Val Poletto Lisa Gu nsorek Ryan Roberts Graphk:a
Sparta 
Quinn Satepauhoodle Bradford Boehm Theresa Kelly 

Jeanne Naylor 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduct1on 
nghts are reserved 
The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, Mar. 1. Lines show high temperatures.
50 
40 40 50 
Yesterday's high: 32 Yesterday's low: 17 Nation's high: 89 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: -9 (Houghton Lake, Mich.) 
Forecast: Sunny Today. Highs in the upper 30s. Fair 
FRONTS: tonight. Lows in the middle 20s. Partly sunny and a little 
COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, In' warmer Friday. Highs Pressure 
40 to 45~ 
® © ~ ~ m 0 h ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
East European Week is having its final panel-lead Women United for Justice and Peace invites discussion on "What the issues of Eastern Europe mean all to attend a talk and slide presentation by Cathy for us as members of the ND community and as citizens Schmidt, a representative of Call to Action and Quest for of a nation," this Thursday, March 1st, at 7:30p.m. at the Peace. She will share experiences of her work in Main Purpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns. Nicaragua, focusing on the recent elections as well as The panelists will be reporters from The Observer, Com-women's role in the struggle for social justice. We will mon Sense, Dialogue and Scholastic, who covered the meet at 8 p.m. tonight in the Foster Room, third floor of week's events. LaFortune. 
Business Sophomores interested in becoming in­
Teaching English in Japan (Good Shepherd 
volved in Student Government should apply at the Student 
Movement) will have a representative at the Center for Body Treasurer's Office at LaFortune. Applications areSocial Concerns on March 1 -Thursday at 12 p.m. Stop being taken for the 1990-91 Assistant Treasurer. Appli­by for more information. 
cations are due March 9, 1990. Joseph Coulson, novelist, essayist. poet, will infor­
Anti-War/Pro-life Activist Juli Loesch Wiley will
mally meet with faculty and students in Grace Hall's Cof­speak in "Divine Obedience/Civil Disobedience," at 12:15feehouse from 10:30 p.m. to 12 a.m.. 
today in the Law School Courtroom. She will also speak on "Pro-Life Feminism" at 7:30 p.m. this evening inCharity Ball is looking for enthusiastic volunteers to LaFortune's Montgomery Theater.
join the 1990 committee. All those interested should come to the meeting today in the Sorin Room at LaFortune at 7 Mark Perlman will give a painting slide and lecture 
p.m. or call Shannon McAuliffe at 283-4230. show at 12 p.m. in Room 200 Riley Hall. 
WORLD
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu 
of Japan, a "clean" but junior member 

A Shanghai court Wednesday convicted five men ofwho led his governing party to a spying for the rival Nationalist government on Taiwancrucial election victory, is showing new and sentenced them to prison terms of five years to life.
assertiveness at home. With powerful They were among more than a dozen mainland Chineseparty elders watching him for any accused of acting as agents of Taiwan during last year'smisstep, he also is looking to a massive pro-democracy protests. 
successful summit with President Bush this weekend to further strengthen his position."I think Japan-U.S. relations are extremely im­portant and I will work to keep them from worsening economically," said Kaifu. 
NATIONAL 
A court-backed agreement on safety measures Mayor Marion Barry, back in the capital for the for all-terrain vehicles has failed to result in the expected first time in more than a month, pleaded innocent sharp decline in injuries and deaths, the chairman of a Wed• ~sday to cocaine possession and perjury charges House panel said Wednesday. They said that there are filed after an investigation into his ties to a convicted some 2.5 million of the existing three-wheeled models and drug dealer. "We will not plea bargain, and the mayor is the newer four-wheel versions, many of them ridden pri-not considering resigning," Barry's attorney, R. Kenneth marily by children. They said an agreement by manufac-Mundy, said after the nine-minute court proceeding. "The turers not to sell adult-sized vehicles for use by children mayor is confident he will be vindicated at trial." Barry is under 16 is being ignored. enrolled in a substance abuse Mundy said the mayor's 
treatment for alcoholism was "going well" and Barry was in "good spirits." 
ALMANACINDIANA 

A five-month-old infant may have On March 1: suffocated early Wednesday when it fell from a e In 1781: The Articles of bed into a partially filled plastic bag, Confederation were adopted by investigators said. Gala Rollins, 22, awoke and the Continental Congress. went to her sister's bedroom and found the infant e In 1810: Composer Frederic partially covered by the plastic clothes bag about 
Chopin was born. 
2:30 a.m., detectives said. She was pronounced e In 1864: Nebraska became adead at 3:25 a.m.. 

state. e In 1927: The Bank of Italy became a National Bank. 
A compromise proposal to reduce motor 

e In 1954: Five congressmen

vehicle excise taxes should provide average Hoosiers relief from a tax they love to hate, were shot by Puerto Rican na­lawmakers said Wednesday. The Indiana House tionalists in the House. approved late Tuesday a plan calling for a $79 e In 1956: The University of 
If}UU're !})it~ to drink ard dti\e at Iea<;t let the t"e>1 of LL~ kno.v.

million annual reduction in the amount of excise Alabama ousts Autherine Lucy, 
Reader's Digest

taxes Hoosiers pay on their cars, motorcycles a Black, saying she made li­and small trucks. belous accusations. 


Thursday, March 1, 1990 
Strong earthquake rocks L.A., Southern California 
UPLAND, Calif. (AP) -A strong earthquake rocked a 200-mile swath of Southern California on Wednesday, trig­gering rock slides onto high­ways, breaking windows, top­
pling  at  least  one  wall  and  
causing  widespread  minor  
damage.  

There were no immediate re­ports of serious injuries from the quake, which was felt from San Diego to Santa Barbara and swayed high-rise buildings in Las Vegas, 230 miles north­east of Los Angeles. 
It measured 5.5 on the Richter scale, and was centered three miles northwest of Up­land, a city about 40 miles east of Los Angeles, said Hall Daily of the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. 
The U.S. Geological Survey gave the same magnitude, but a preliminary reading by Univer­sity of California Seismo­graphic Stations at Berkeley­put the magnitude at 6.0. Such measuring differences are common. A quake of magnitude 
5.5 is capable of causing con­siderable damage. 
Scattered damage was re­ported in the region east of Los Angeles. 
At Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, about five miles from the epicenter, the quake broke a window and toppled wall-mounted bookcases in the president's office, said Burt Tashman, at the school. 
''I'm on the second story and boy, I tell you, things started 




Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice 
"Roosevelt's 
Estates, Trusts & Wills 
Employee Benefit Plans 

paralegal 
• ~~at ~.B.A.-approved program m Illinom

program 
• 
Hffedive employement assistanc:e 

• 
Three-month day and six-month 



was my 
evening classes 
• Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak 

Brook and Olympia Pields locations
stepping­
• Student loans for qualified appli­cants

stone 
• On camp1111 Mar. 23, 1990, see your career placement omce for details
to a 
rewarding 
For a brochure and your invatation to an infonnation session, write or call: 
career." 
~ Roooovolt Unlvomty 
N­
• Lowye."• A.ol·-PJopom 
Addtuo
• 430 S. Mldd:::-­

A..eHIIard 
Chlc...,,JLLegal Aabtaat 
City Zip
312-341-3882 s-

M...lb DP 

----CELEBRATE----­
SPRING BREAK '90 
IN Fl'. LAUDERDALE AT 
~:= 
CERTAND DANCE CU1B 181'&\RSAND OLDER AD.MJT'J1!:D 

10A.ll. to 6 P.ll. POOLSIDE PAR11ES 
UVSD..J.~~OIIIIar•._VOU&!UIL 
-·-T~.aAfto'I"JI&-.&.WU.OIIIIar 
.llm~'IDDATwrm ... 'IDwaTWI", WSTT-OIIIIar ~-PlADID"I'--•~,_o,_T_ 
AIIDODID -WAft

_a.uml.,._,.,.._..........__
eta&T.Y. 
7 P.ll. to 8 P.ll. COLLEGE PARTY 

____T ______
IIJTRE DAI£ PARTY • IUIDAY, IIARCH 12 
au-.--.,-··----~....
ALL REFRESHMENTS .75 
c:lOIIP'E'm Df COIIII:8111,._ PIUZI!al 
EVENil'IG8 BrlM¥Dr:S Olf TilE BEACB.PRI!:siCI¥'J'S ••• JI'DRY 
rr.l~~aoarw.au.MIIID 
.-n.r.PLUIIIO nm.-srJMIIICS MVIIIIC ••• PUll 8 MilS TO 81:11\'E J'OV1 
·--------a.aMV 

IIJTRE DAI£ PARTY • PIIIDAY. IIARCII 12 ONE FREE REFRESHMENT 
GOOD 11110117 ..P.ll. JaOBn.T

.._..C....CtJnWIIRJ Suanen on theee.:ta • 218S. AIIMdc lhd.• Pl t..udl!rclllr. PL • t308l.-a_.,. (L()CATED 112 BLOCX HCllll1f"'lAS OlAS &VIl ONAlAI 
~POUCT1l8Yua-.ou.a~ 
SPRING BREAK '90 
shaking," Tashman said. 
"Glass fell from the wall of the 
president's office and fell all 
over the place. Pictures fell. The 
pane broke. That sort of 
thing." 

The side of a one-story auto 
parts building collapsed in La 
Verne, 10 miles from the epi­
center said Mayor Jon Blicken­
st:tff, adding that nobody was 
hun. The wall as measured 20 
feet by 80 feet and was made of 
unreinforceu umcrete, at least 
80 years old. 

At Ontario International Air­
port, a few miles from the epi­
center, ceiling panels and signs 
fell, and windows cracked in 
the operations tower, said 
manager Michael DiGirolamo. 
A small rock slide on Inter­
from the epicenter, startled 
motorists, causing minor acci­
dents, the Highway Patrol said. 
Another small rockslide closed 
the road through Soledad 
Canyon, 35 miles northwest of 
Los Angeles. 

A boulder twice the size of a car fell onto Angeles C(esi Highway in the San Galiriel Mountains, blocking half' of the two-lane rural road. 
It was the strongest earthquake in California since a 7.1-magnitude quake struck the San Francisco Bay region Oct. 17, reawakening fears throughout the state of a mas­sive quake scientists predict in coming years. 

40 dayS Of faSting beginS The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 
Shannon Ryan (left) receives ashes yesterday for Ash Wednesday in th~ Regi.n~ Chap~l. at Saint Mary's. Ash Wednesday begins the 40 days of fasting before Easter Sunday 1n Chnsttan tradttJon. 




High Court limits 4th Amendment 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. agents do not need warrants for searches in other countries, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday in a decision seen as bolstering the fight against drug smugglers and terrorists -and perhaps aiding the pros­ecution of ousted Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega. 
By a 6-3 vote, the justices upheld the warrantless search of the home of a suspected Mexican drug smuggler. 
Foreigners living abroad do not have the same rights as 
U.S. citizens or aliens living here, the court said. 
In another decision, the court gave police broad new authority to conduct sweeping searches in this country after making arrests in private homes. 
Voting 7-2, the justices said police may use the evidence 
~----------------------------------­
/ ' 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Quote of the Day Writer 
To apply or receive additional informatlon, contact Michelle Dall at 239-5303 by March 5. 
~''-----------------------------------// 
Reggae is Back! 

voted Chicago's #1 Reggae Band two years in a row. 

at the New Center Street 
tonight 
showtime: 9:30p.m. 1 00 Center -Mishawaka 
concert hotline 256-0710 
seized when they arrested a Riverdale, Md., man accused of armed robbery. The ruling rein­stated his conviction and 35­year prison sentence. 
The court said police may search throughout a house when they have a reasonable suspicion there is a hidden danger to the arresting officers -even if authorities lack a search warrant or probable cause to believe there is a dan­ger. 
In a third ruling, the court said states may make the death penalty the only punishment for some murderers without violat­ing the Constitution's ban on mandatory death sentences. The court, by a 5-4 vote, upheld a Pennsylvania law. 
In the drug-smuggling case, the court narrowed the Fourth Amendment's protection 
~ 
against unreasonable searches and seizures. 
Aliens are entitled to such constitutional safeguards only "when they have come within the territory of the United States and developed substan­tial connections with this coun­try," Chief Justice William Rehnquist said. 
Without mentioning the Nor­iega case, Rehnquist said, "Situations threatening to im­portant American interests may arise halfway around the globe ... (that) require an American response with armed force." 
He added: "If there are to be restrictions on searches and seizures which occur incident to such American action, they must be imposed by the political branches through diplomatic understanding, treaty or legis­lation." 
The ruling could help the gov­ernment's prosecution of Nor­iega on drug-trafficking and money-laundering charges from a 12-count indictment handed down in February 1988. After U.S. troops invaded Panama in December to cap­ture Noriega, he surrendered and was brought to the United States to stand trial in Florida. 
There has been speculation Noriega's lawyers might argue 
U.S. armed forces illegally seized evidence in the invasion. 
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said the high court's ruling "recognizes the right and need of law enforce­ment officers to have lawful, practical means of dealing with international drug trafficking operations." 
"Drug traffickers and terror­ists will take no cheer from the court's opinion," Thornburgh said. 
The U.S. military is seeking to become more involved in fight­ing drug smuggling by using spy satellites and other surveil­lance techniques to track sus­pects in foreign countries. 
Wednesday's decision was denounced by the court's dis­senters. Justice William Bren­nan said the decision lets au­thorities indiscriminately "break down doors ... when the door being broken belongs to a foreigner." 
"If we expect aliens to obey our laws, aliens should be able to expect that we will obey our Constitution when we investi­gate, prosecute and punish 
them. Lawlessness breeds law­lessness," Brennan said. 
Justices Thurgood Marshall and Harry Blackmun also dis­sented. 

-------~--~--------~ ~----~----------------­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1990 

Barbara Bush takes a stab at pool as she teaches elementary students in Southwest Washington the 
essentials of being a good hustler Tuesday. 


Dorms 

continued from page 1 
were waiting to receive their fi­nancial aid packages, explained Hines. These groups of minority freshmen were subsequently listed together on housing lists. These students were then matched with rooms together, Hines said she teamed while in meetings with Goldrick and 
Ileinebold. 
Another reason for late con­
firmation is that many minority 
students attend Minority 
Student Weekend in the spring, 
said Loya. He explained that 
many students send confirma­
tions after this weekend. 
The Administration has 
agreed to modify the system for 
the 1990-91 academic year for 
all incoming freshmen. The 
computer will now place stu­
dents one by one, dorm by 
dorm, as opposed to room by 
room, according to Heinebold. 
"This is a case where students 
come up with an issue, pre­
sented it to the Administration, 
and the Administration re­
solved it to the best of every­
one's interests," said Hines. 
Student Body President Matt 
Breslin said his initial reaction 
when he received the report 
from the Legal Department was 
to discuss the issue with minor­
ity club presidents on campus. 
Loya reported to Breslin that 
the minority leaders said that 
STEAKS )~
PRIME RIB ~~/~w
f, '' 
SEAFOOD ~IC ~ 
Ho 
P.t.:i ~ 
all housing procedures should be rand<lm, said Breslin. Student "Government then worked together to find out why the discrepancies occurred. 
At a fall Campus Life Council meeting "it was evident that the computer program was not sufficient," said Breslin. He said that he was told the pro­gram would be changed. 
Breslin said that he was pleased with the response to the problem. He said he was pleased with the way the Student Senate and the Legal Department worked together to solve this discrepancy. 
Joe Watson, president of National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). said that he noticed that many minorities were housed together in the same dorms and the same sections when he distributed club flyers. 
He said that if two or more students chose to live together, for instance during Minority Weekend, it should be permissi­

ble.  However,  Watson  said  
"otherwise it should  be  ran­ 
dom."  

"I don't why Notre Dame doesn't have a housing ques­tionnaire," said Watson. He said that a questionnaire would facilitate better housing situa­tions on campus. 

He believes that students should have the experience of living with different types of people. "It's a great experi­
100 CENTER. MISHAWAKA 

Featuring Friday night secdood buffet 
and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
CULT: HOW WE PRAY TELLS WHO WE ARE Cult (communal worship) reflects and shapes the whole life of the Church. Examining the way we worship is one important way of discovering the Christian vision of life. 


FR. MICHAEL J. HIMES is an Associate Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. He was awarded with distinction a Ph.D. in the History of Christianity from the University of Chicago. At the invitation of the World Council on Religion and Peace, he delivered the address in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the United Nations. 
Sunday, Mar. 4 and 
Wednesday, Mar. 7 

Keenan-Stanford Chapel 7p.m. 
Sponeonod by Campw Ministry. For more information, oontllcl Sr. Mary Curran, CSC. 239·5242 
ence," said Watson. "You need to learn to live outside of what you're used to ... you learn how to get along (with others) ... I, personally, think that everyone should have that experience." 
In regards to the Administration's response to the problem, Loya said, "I was really pleased." He said that he will be following up on this is­sue next year. 
Loya said that he tried to pass a resolution in Student Senate to prohibit special housing requests. He said that the proposal did not receive fa­vorable response and was not passed by senate. According to Loya some senators did not like the wording of the resolutions, he said he might re-present the proposal. 


Give. 
JaAmerican Heart 
~Association 
WE'RE FIGHTII\G Fa< 'ra.JR LIFE 

u.s. 

continued from page 1 
her and Ortega for the rebels to disband, Baker said, "those conditions are now rapidly be­ing created." 
However, he added that years of distrust had produced ·"legitimate fears on both sides that should be addressed." 
Baker said he hoped Homan Catholic Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo in Managua "would be able to play a role in resolving this issue," along with the United Nations and the Organization of American States. 
Carter seemed optimistic, as well. Having spoken with most of the Sandinista leaders, in­cluding Defense Minister Hum­berto Ortega, the former U.S. president said the Chamorro­led National Opposition Union 
and  the  Sandinistas  were  
working  harmoniously  on  a  
transition of power.  

Carter ;;aid the Sandinistas acknowledged the results of the election as well as the right of Chamorro to choose her own ministers of defense and inte­rior, which control the army and security forces. 
Still, he said the Contras, who fought with American weapons and money to bring down the Sandinistas, had "legitimate concerns that must be met." 
Carter said ways must be found to permit the rebels, many of whom fought from se­cure bases outside Nicaragua, to return home "in a peaceful way, without their arms." 
Baker told senators, "We want to avoid a standoff with each side demanding that the other go first." 
In Nicaragua a day earlier, Rafael Solis, a high-ranking military commander, said th~ Sandinistas would not give up control of the police or Central America's largest army until the Contras disband. 
Meanwhile, Contra leader Is­rael Galeano said from Hon­duras, where thousands of the rebels are based across the border, that they would not disband until after Chamorro is inaugurated April 25. 
Baker said he hoped Congress, for which Nicaragua has been the most divisive for­eign policy issue of the past decade, would not start a polit­ical debate about demobiliza­tion of the rebels. 
"It would be unfortunate ... if we now divided on this very complex and sensitive and deli­cate issue by drawing lines in the sand about who ought to go first," Baker said. 
Asked whether the adminis­tration has contingency plans in case the Sandinistas seek to retain power over the nation's military and security appara­tus, Baker said: "That's a con­tingency that isn't likely. 
Frankly, it just isn't going  to  
happen.  That's  all  going  to  
work out."  



H A P P Y 19th to the 
11\jJ~:~r<:~'.w lt\Jl~\lFJ.;\IUJI.illl~l;a ·~ 


Joe Dummer 
Hugs & Kisses jack, tracy, mike 

9:30 PM Thursday at... 

IN .ilL'-SeR1oUsNfsS 
The Comedy-lmprov Troupe 
,{~ CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 1990 
fll!l/l' .ATTENTION STUDENTS 
Last chance to sign up for "Christmas in April." Off Campus Sign-ups: 
LaFortune information desk. 

On Campus Sign-ups: 
Look for posters in your dorm or ask your Hall President. 
THIS PROJECT NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT!!! 
Questions??? Please call:  
Karen Croteau Isabel Navarrete  x1367 x1314  Lora Mangan Bob Scheibel  x1314 x2544  
DEADLINE MARCH 5!!!  



Don't come back here Yankee 
The Saint Mary's International Club presented "Images of an Ugly American," discussing how Americans are treated while abroad. Standing at right is Tim Dimerais, sales-manager for United Export. Sitting left is John Derda, president of Derdo Inc.. Both are Notre Dame graduates. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 

To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Michelle Dall by 5 p.m. Monday, March 5. For further information, contact Michelle Dall at 239-7471. 
The Observer page 5 
SMC announces waste recycling 
By COLLEEN TRAVERS News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Waste Recy­cling Program is scheduled to begin on March 19th and will continue until finals week, ac­cording to Board of Student Mfairs member Ann Clark, who made this announcement at Wednesday's student govern­ment meeting. 
There will be boxes on every floor of all the residence halls and the money that this project generates will go to the Hope Rescue Mission, a homeless shelter in South Bend. 
Clark emphasized that the project will "need volunteers and will be dependant on stu­dent input for its success." 
The possibility of forming a Recycling club or an Ecology club was also discussed. These students would probably be re­sponsible for taking over and organizing the recycling pro­gram, as well as other future projects. 
There was also a presenta­tion by Kasey Smith, the Mid­west Regional Director of the "Best Buddies" organization. The purpose of this organiza­tion is to match college stu­dents with a mentally chal­lenged friend to give them a re­lationship with people outside of their families and special ed­ucation classes. 
Smith is currently looking for a Chapter Director for Saint Mary's. This director will be re­
sponsible for the leadership and management of the program. Applications are available in the Student Activities office and a decision will be made by mid­April. 
There will be a Health Break taking place on Wednesday, March 7, from noon to 3 p.m. in front of Haggar College Cen­ter. Healthy foods, including various fruits, will be passed out and announcements con­cerning health matters will be distributed. 

Minn. debates tough abortion law 
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP)-Hun­dreds of abortion-rights ac­tivists on Wednesday exchanged taunts with a small group of anti-abortionists outside the Capitol amid intense lobbying over a bill that would ban most abortions in the state. 
The bill, which would prohibit abortions for "birth-control reasons," was drafted as model legislation by the National Right-To-Life Committee in the wake of last summer's U.S. Supreme Court decision that gave states more leeway to re­strict abortions. 
Although Minnesota was long associated in national politics with the liberalism espoused by former Vice President Walter Mondale, an abortion rights 
supporter,  it  has  been  a  
stronghold  of  anti-abortion  
sentiment.  

Proponents say the legislation would be the toughest enforce­able anti-abortion measure in the nation, prohibiting an esti­mated 93 percent of the abor­tions performed in the state. 
The measure would allow abortions only in these cases: 
•rape 
reported to police within 48 hours of the attack; 

•incest 
reported to authori­ties before the abortion; 

•pregnancy 
that threatens the woman's life or endangers her health; 

•pregnancy 
that would result in a child born with "profound and irremediable physical or mental disabilities incompatible with sustained survival." 


Nearly 2,000 pro-choice demonstrators rallied Wednes­day morning. Their chants of "Choice" were met by shouts of "Life" by a small group of abortion foes. No arrests were made. 
Mickelmann spoke a few hours before the bill was taken up by the Senate Health and Human Services Committee, a 16-member oanel that reflects how split the Legislature is on abortion. 
Also Wednesday, lawmakers in Annapolis, Md., conducted a hearing on four abortion re­striction bills and one anti­abortion bill. The hearing at­tracted an overflow crowd that left about 150 people, mostly abortion opponents, standing with protest signs outside a legislative building. 
In Minnesota, the bill's spon­sor, Democratic Sen. Gene Waldorf, tried unsuccessfully to have the measure taken up in the House first. 



Thursday, March 1st, 1990 
7:30• Main~R()(l11(CSC) 



"What Do the Issues in Eastern Europe Mean to us as Members of the Notre Dame Community and as Citizens of a Nation?" 
Panel-lead Discussion With: Common Sense, Dialogue, Observer, and Scholastic Reporters who covered the events. 
ADWORKS 



The Observer 

AP Photo President Bush, seen here gesturing toward Sen. Bob Dole, discussed the political shakeup in Nicaragua as well as German reunification with Soviet leader Gorbachev during a telephone conversation Wednesday. 
Ortega halts attacks on Contras 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -President Daniel Ortega de­clared a halt to attacks on the Contras Wednesday and called again on the United States to help dismantle the rebel force. 
President-elect Violeta Bar­rios de Chamorro, who joined Ortega on Tuesday in asking the U.S.-backed Contras to put down their arms, praised his move as a step forward. 
"The causes of civil war in Nicaragua have disappeared," Mrs. Chamorro told a news conference. "There is no reason for war." 
She said the Contras, most of them based in neighboring Honduras, "must lay down their weapons and come home to work for the reconstruction of Nicaragua." 
Ortega said in a statement that he ordered all offensive military operations against the Contras to halt. He said the United States should help pay for demobilizing and relocating the rebels. 
Chamorro upset Ortega in an election on Sunday that he agreed to as part of a Central American plan for ending the war and which he clearly ex­pected to win. 
Demobilizing the Contras is the trickiest issue in transition talks that began Tuesday be­tween Chamorro's 14-party 

GROW WITH A FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM Where you go In your profession often hos o lot to do 
with where you stort. If you wont to moke the most of your potential, look Into the mony opportunities ovolloble In NAVY MEDICNE. 
MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS UNIQUE CAREER FOR MATH/SCIENCE MAJORS UNLIMITED CAREER POTENTIAL FOR NURSES 
The Navy Medical Team offers o professionol coreer plus the unique benefits' ond rewording lifestyle os o Novy officer. 
EXCELLENT MEDICAL FACILITIES COMPETITIVE SALARY & BENEFITS NAVV OFFICER FRINGE BENEFITS 

A Novy Medlcol Progrom representotlve will be on compus on Morch 6 & 7, 1990. Moke on oppol ntment ot the Plocement Office, or coll oheod for lnformotlon. 1-600-527-6636 
2f. 


NAWoFFiC'Etr 
You areTomorrow. You are the Nav • 

coalition, the United National Opposition, and the stunned Sandinistas, who have been in power for 10 1/2 years. 
Sandinista officials say they cannot give up control of the armed forces and police, both party organs, as long as the 10,000-man Contra army is in­tact. 
Chamorro made it clear she expects Ortega to keep his promise to turn over power and that her government plans to run the army and security forces. 
'Tm the one who is going to give orders," said the silver­haired widow, who was chosen to run against Ortega because of her powerful symbolic value. 
The 1978 death of her hus­band, opposition publisher Pe­dro Joaquin Chamorro, touched off the revolution that over­threw dictator Anastasio So­moza and put the Sandinistas in power. 
She said the Sandinistas "have to turn over everything," including the armed forces ­the traditional source of real power in Latin America. 
"The minister of defense will be a civilian," she declared. 
The current minister, Gen. Humberto Ortega, the presi­dent's brother, leads the San­dinista transition team. Chamorro's son-in-law and 
campaign manager, Antonio Lacayo, heads the United Na­tional Opposition team. 
The transition talks are ex­pected to be. complex. 
Ortega laid out tough Sandin­ista positions on Tuesday be­fore thousands of cheering party members. 
He demanded demobilization of the Contras and said the party would "defend the in­tegrity and the professionalism of the army and the police forces." 
Mrs. Chamorro campaigned on a platform that promised an end to the draft and drastic cuts in the armed forces, which Soviet aid has built into the most powerful military machine in the region. 
The statement from the San­dinista leadership also chal­lenged privatization, a major plank in the UNO platform. 


Our next day Jet Service TM can let you have The latest In designer frames! Choose your new glasses in as little as 24 hours. even from hundreds of traditional. contem­bifocals. trifocals. and line-free bifocals. porary. designer. safety. and
I 

\ 
sport frames for the entire family. Our trained fashion con­
sultants can help you select the perfect frame! 

The newest lens styles! We have a complete 
selection of lenses available.lncluding line-free Dr. Tavel's optometrists perform complete bifocals. shatterproofTNT. ultra thin H .I.P.. special and tnorough eye examinations right on lenses for computer users. mechanics. electri­the premises. to ensure that your prescrip­cians. and other occupations. as well as UV tion is perfect. coatings and the latest in tints. 
Offer A Great Deal. 

Thursday, March 1. 1990 

Bush phones Gorbachev on Nicaragua and Germany 
NEW YORK (AP) -President Bush telephoned Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev Wednesday for a "very constructive" and frank discussion on the political shakeup in Nicaragua, where the Kremlin is credited with helping promote an honest election. 
In what was believed to be only their third telephone con­versation, the two leaders also discussed issues of European security, including German re­unification, and preparations for a superpower summit this summer, according to U.S. ac­counts and the Soviet news agency Tass. 
Bush called the Soviet presi­dent before setting out on a cross-country campaign trip, with stops at New York's Staten Island and San Fran­Clisco, ami a weekend meeting in Palm Springs, Calif., with Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu. 
"From Moscow to Managua, change is in the air," Bush said in remarks prepared for a speech in San Francisco at a fund-raiser for Republican Sen. 

Saint Louis Univenity's 
Academic Year In Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: English, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU In Madrid Is a member ol AAIEOE 
Graduate Courses o"ered dur1ng Summer Session 

Apply NOW for Spring, Summer and Fall More than 1,000 students In the Program. 
Contact: 

Saint Louis University In Madrid Saint Louis University Bravo Murillo, 38 
Study Abroad Coordinator Edlflclo Gonzaga, Planta Baja Admissions OHice Madrid 28015 Spain 
221 North Grand Blvd. Tel: 593-3783 
St. Louis, MO 63103 Toll-free tel: 1·800-325-6666 





Glasses 
CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILY OR 
EXTENDEDWEAR 

$3998 


Softmate clear. dolly. or Soflmale 8 or 8 a L 'O'I1nled eldended wear le....,. len-. In 2 clllerenl colon 
Eye exom required IO< contoc:IL Somoi ~r restrk:ltol'll apply. 
All Insurance plans welcome GM .,.._felTed Vision Provide,.. program Metr~itan Ford • Chrysler • Wom• Gear • Medicaid 
ES~OO!a 
We always have a great deal to offer at Dr. Tavel's Premium Opticall You'll find all the latest styles and fashions in eyewear, fast service. comprehensive eye exams.fashlon consultants. and all atvery affordable prices. 

1111 E. Ireland Road 291-4CXXJ 
Pete Wilson, running for gover­
nor. 
Bush said, "The world has undergone another upheaval, but this time there is no war and there are fewer tyrants in the world than before." He called Gorbachev a bold leader who was undertaking daring reforms. 
"In the Revolution of '89, an idea overcame armies and tanks, and that idea is democ­racy," Bush said. 
"This has been true in the East. Now it is becoming true throughout the Western Hemi­sphere, first in Panama after Operation Just Cause (the U.S. invasion to topple Manuel An­tonio Noriega) and now, at long last, for the brave people -of Nicaragua," Bush said. 
"Could we have asked for more?" 
Bush discussed his conversa­tion with Gorbachev as he flew to New York to campaign for Republican Susan Molinari, who is hoping to succeed her father, former Rep. Guy Moli­nari, in Congress. 




Thursday, March 1 , 1990 
AP Photo Space Shuttle Atlantis soars into the heavens behind a cloud of steam as it lifts off Wednesday. The classified mission was hampered by bad weather which helped cause five delays in the launch time. 
WANTED: 
One ambitious Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student seeking challenging extra-curricular involvement to fill the following position: 
Observer Typesetting Service Director 
Applicants for this position should: 
• 
Possess strong management skills and the ability to work with all types of people. 

• 
Be eager to develop valuable Apple Macintosh skills. 

• 
Be energetic and enterprising. 

• 
Have the initiative to expand upon the successes of a profitable business venture. 


Contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
.. Ihe ObserYer___ 
The Observer page 7 

Atlantis lifts off with military cargo 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Space shuttle Atlantis, aloft at last on a secret military mis­sion after five launch delays, orbited the globe Wednesday in a public silence that NASA of­ficials said meant all was well. 
Atlantis blasted off with five military astronauts and a cargo believed to be a $500 million spy satellite at 2:51 a.m., its 700-foot column of fire visible for hundreds of miles. It was NASA's sixth at­tempt at launching the 100-ton spaceship for the mission, one short a record for the most shuttle postponements. 
"Thank goodness we can fi­nally stop meeting like this," NASA administrator Richard Truly told the launch team after Atlantis rocketed into or­bit. "It was a tough one to get off, but a great job." 
Nothing was heard from At­lantis' all-military crew, and launch director Bob Sieck said, "the crew was pretty quiet and very patient." 

Illinois, Indiana argue over airport 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Gov. James Thompson warned Wednesday that bickering be­tween politicians in Chicago and Indiana could imperil con­struction of a new airport in one of the states. 
"It is the job of experts, not politicians, to assess those ad­vantages and disadvantages of each site," Thompson said. 
"It's tough enough to build a multibillion-dollar airport these days," he said. "You don't need the added burden of people raising the objections that the site selection is not fair." 
Thompson's comments came a day after Rep. Pete Visclosky, D-Ind., accused Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner of favoring Chicago's bid to put a 
SOMMERS ~heck Us Out! G R A p H I C S 
./ Rolodex Cards .J Business Cards t/ Roll Labels 
' Rosters ' Envelopes J MenusVManuals VLetterheads V Invoices .J Booklets .J Resumes .J Registration Forms 
\J Continuous Forms \J Newsletters \1 Statements J Book Markers J Invitations J Flyers 
52021 U.S. 33 North South Bend, IN 46637 
"The fact that we haven't heard anything indicates that all is going according to plan," added Bruce Buckingham, a spokesman for the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration. 
Because of the classified na­ture of the Defense Department mission, NASA quickly blacked out public release of communi­cations from the shuttle for the entire trip. 
Liftoff, originally set for Feb. 15, almost was delayed a sixth time because of bad weather at Kennedy Space Center and at emergency abort sites. 
The first scheduled liftoff was halted when the crew's com­mander was stricken with a cold. His illness, combined with uncertain weather, prompted NASA to scrub the second launch. 
The others were blocked twice by bad weather and once by a malfunctioning computer. 
With rain and clouds threat­ening to postpone once more, 
third regional airport on the city's southeast side. 
Also Tuesday, Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., and Senate Mi­nority Leader Robert Dole, R­Kan., met with Skinner and urged him to reject Chicago Mayor Richard Daley's request that the government help pay for a study of the site. 
Other sites under considera­tion are the Gary (Ind.) Re­gional Airport, which would re­quire expansion; a site strad­dling the Illinois-Indiana border east of Beecher, Ill.; a site between Beecher and Peotone; and .a site northeast of Kankakee. 
"I haven't foreclosed any­thing," Skinner said after the meeting. "All I've agreed to do NASA halted Wednesday's countdown for about two hours. The clock was restarted at nine minutes, paused briefly for a final weather check, then ticked to liftoff. 
"The weather finally cooper­ated. We had a good, smooth count," said Forrest McCart­ney, director of Kennedy Space Center. "The team exercised good patience." 
As the rocket ignited, light burst from the launch pad and leaped form cloud to cloud across the nighttime horizon. 
People as far north as Wash­ington, D.C., reported seeing the blue, white and red light of Atlantis' rockets as the space­ship streaked up the East Coast on the highest inclination orbit ever traveled by a shuttle. For many, it resembled a brilliant falling star. 
"It only lasted about seven to 10 seconds. But it beat the hell out of a fireworks show," said Mike Albertson, an editor at the Savannah (Ga.) Evening Press. 
is not eliminate any choices." 
Thompson acknowledged that Daley may have irritated Indi­ana, especially since a commis­sion has already been looking at other sites in northeast Illi­nois and northwest Indiana. 
"My hope is that Mayor Da­ley, me, Secretary Skinner and (Indiana) Gov. (Evan) Bayh can work together to find a process that will fairly consider all of the sites, including Chicago," Thompson said. 
"If we don't get going on a third major airport our econ­omy will lose out," he said. "All of these sentiments have been conveyed to Secretary Skinner by me." 
6¢ 
copies 
./ Legal Briefs 
' Sales LiteraturevBrochures .J Folders \1 Membership Cards 
-.1 Contracts 


Saturday, March 3rd, at 2:30pm MEN S BASKftBALL hosts 3 MISSOURI Let s help DIGGER and THE TEAM BURST THE TIGERS BALLOON! 
IRISH INSANift wiD pass out balloons to students before the game. POP EM altar our first basket. 
AND TONIGHT at 7:30 pm WOMEN S BASKETBALL puts its unbeaten MCC record against DAYTON 
IRISH INSANift will disbibute BASKE'I'BALL INSANift T-shirts FREE We only have so many, so coma early! 
MOVE INTO HEALTH CARE with the ARMY RESERVE 

Become a/an: *Dental Lab Specialist *E.MT (Paramedic) *Practical Nurse *O.R. Specialist *X-Ray Specialist *Pharmacy Specialist *Respiratory Specialist *Lab Specialist 
Train at a local, Army -approved civilian school of your choice. Our new Specialized Training for Army Readiness (STAR) program pays for your tuition, books, and fees. Find out if you qualify. 
Call: 

Army Recruiting Station 125 S. Hill St. South Bend 
(219) 234-4187 Be All You Can Be: ARMY RESERVE 


------~·~~---~---------~----­
page 8 The Observer Thursday, March 1 . 1990 
---------------~-.
Interested in fame, money an ·power. 


ell, who isn't? We need people interested in getting involved and working hard. 

Applications are now available for Student Government c:abinet position for 1990-1991. Applications and job descriptions may be obtained at the Student Government secretary's office (2nd floor LaFortune) beginning March 1st, and must be returned by March .Sth 
The following positions are available: 
Student Body Secretary 
Executive Coordinators for: Intellectual Life •Public Relations •Student Life •Special Projects •Legal Department •Board of Trustee Report 

Commissioners & Assistant Commissioners for: 
Academics • Political Concerns • Iceberg Debates • World Awareness Series • Social Concerns Hall Fellows Programs • Faculty -Senate Liaison • Intellectual Life 
lumni Relations • ND/SMC Relations • Photography • Correspondence • Lay-out/Design • Foreign Relation 
Women's Concerns • Minority/Cultural Concerns • Campus Improvements • Security Alcohol/Food/Health • Student Services • Legal Department Researchers & Policy Analysts 


uestions? Call Robert (#1712) or Fred (#1734) 


Business 

page 9 

Home sales to rise in the spring 
WASHINGTON (AP) Existing home sales declined 
2.2 percent in January as rising mortgage interest rates combined with the usual winter lull to brake sales to their slowest pace since last summer, a real estate trade group said Wednesday. 
The National Association of Realtors said resales of single­family homes totaled a seasonally adjusted 3.48 million units in January, compared to 
3.56 million one month earlier. It was the slowest pace since last August's 3.44 million rate. 
John Tuccillo, the Realtors' chief economist, said he did not see a big increase in existing home sales in the near future, but added that "as rates taper off in the spring, we expect sales to pick up." 
Surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. show that fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages rose from 9.83 percent to 10.05 percent during January. 
"The rate rise in January made a dent, in high-end and less-expensive markets," said Realtors' President Norman Flynn, who also noted that the 

•J~~~~;~,~~~~;;;JIIRrJ
t 

~==~·~=~m~~·!J.. !!!·ill·· 
Source: National Association of Realtors . AP 
start of a new year is a slow home-sales period. 
The housing market has been hurt by the Federal Reserve's high interest policies designed 
to stem inflation by slowing-the economy. Existing home sales dropped to a 3.25 million rate last May when mortgage rates were still near their peak. 
The Commerce Department is scheduled to release on Friday 
its report on new home sales in 
January. 
The Realtors' survey found the median price of an existing home to be $96,200, up 4 percent from December and 7.1 percent from January 1989. The median means half of the homes cost more, half less. 
The only increase in resales 
occurred in the South where 
1.40 million units were sold on an annual rate, up 0. 7 percent from December. The median price there was $86,300.
Sales in the West, where the median price was $144,000, 
suffered the biggest decline,
down 11.5 percent to 540,000 million units. 
The Northeast posted a 3.4 t~rcent d_rop to .560,000 units. e median pnce there was 
$ 147 10
· ~· . 
T~e Midwest expenenced a de~lme of 2 percen~ to 96.0,000 umts. It had a median pnce of 
$7 4 600 
·· 

IRS promises tax refunds in record time 

slowest pace in more than three years in 1989, the gov~ ernment said Wednesday. Analysts welcomed a slight upward revision in fourth':: quarter actiVity, but many remain anxious over prospects this vear. 
The Commerce Department revised the fourth quarter gross national product up­wards from 0.5 percent to 
0.9 percent, which in turn boosted overall 1989 eco­nomic growth to 3.0 percent from last month's 2.9 per­cent 
Despite the improvement, it was the slowest yearly growth since a 2.7 percent gain in 1986 and the lowest quarterly advance since the economy grew 0.8 percent in the third quarter of that year. The GNP rose 4.4 in 1988. 
"The bottom line is, the economy is likely to stay out of a recession, but just barely," said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a New York government securities dealer. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the re­port offered further evidence 
,. 
.Ihe Obsener___ ""' 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Friday, March 2 to Greg Guffey. For further information, call Greg Guffey at 239-5303 or 283-1662. 
\. ~ 

notre dame 

Student Art Forum 
presents: 

Student/Faculty Lecture Series with 


DICK STEVENS 
of the Notre Dame Photography Dept. 
"My Work in Progress" 
Thursday, March 1st 7:00pm in the Snite Museum ofArt 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Internal Revenue Service is processing tax returns at a 
near  record  pace  and  
promising  refunds  in  about  
four weeks.  

During the first half of the filing season, 31.9 million returns were received by the IRS, about 30 percent of the total expected this vear. 
Receipts through Feb. 23 "were 
3.6 percent higher than a year ago. 
The agency said Wednesday that it has processed 19.4 percent more returns than at this time last year, 18.1 million compared with 15.1 million. More than half the processed returns, 9. 9 million, have produced refunds, up 20.3 
Attention Saint Mary's students: 
The Observer is seeking enthusiastic students interested in covering events on the Saint Mary's campus for the newspaper. If you like to write, have an inquisitive mind, or simply would like to help us make the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity more aware of events on your campus, contact Corinne Pavlis at 277-3682. 

be a part of it. 
LEARN RUSSIAN ON THE BLACK SEA! 
The programs are organized by Dafna Ronn-Oxley of Vlrtus. Limited in cooperation with Sigma, a privately owned Russian cooperative In Sochl, Russia. There will be 2 sessions: June 8-July 11 and July 6­August 8. each session includes 80 hours of class work taught by qualified teachers at the university level plus 20 hours of class discussion, and also excursions In the area. COST: 1st sesslon-$2500. Price includes the course itself, accomodations with local Russian families, 3 meals per day, excursions and ALL air and land transportation. 2nd seaslon-$2680. Price Includes all of the above plus 4 days In Moscow. FOR INFORMAnON CALL 1-800-274-9121 (24 hours a day) and leave your name and address. 
You are invited to an OPEN HOUSE MEETING ON Friday, March 2 between 11 :OOam -3:00pm 
room La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame University 
~=~===Q==~====~===·==~===Q===~===~====I:dl l___________~_m__h_ee_n_d,_ln_d_ia-na----------~ 
percent from last year. 
This year's refunds are averaging $868, compared with $825 during the same period last year. Refunds have totaled $8.6 billion, up 26.5 percent. "Those who file returns before the last-minute rush can expect refunds in about four weeks," the IRS said. 
More than 2. 5 million taxpayers have opted for refunds within about two weeks by filing their returns electronically through companies authorized by the IRS. By comparison, about 645,000 electronic returns were received during the same period last year. 
Electronic filing is available in every state this year, although only to taxpayers who are due refunds. 
Summer Job~ 
Over 50.000 summer job openings at Resorrs. Camps. Amusement Parks, Businesses. CrUise Lmes. Ranches. and more in the U.S .• Canada. 
Australia. and 20 other countries. Complete directory only $19.95. Don't wail till after finals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Springs. CO 80937 


~I ARIA CONCHITA .JENNIFER 
ALONSO BfALS 
.\w ELIZABETH 
r:iil ~ ASHlfY HE'MD\LE 
~~ )I 1\MJVIJIII INilfi'J.Nllf.NT 
c-.~·-·-~-............. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI and SAT 7:30,9:30 

,1 
1 
j 
' 





Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, March 1, 1990 
.Ihe ObserYer___ 
P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg•s Coccia R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager ...Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .......Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor . Enc Ba1iey OTS Director ... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor . Chnstme Gill Controller ... Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­Icies of the adm1mstrat1on oi e1ther InStitution The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the maJority of the lollowing Editor-1n-Ch1ef. Managmg Ed1tor. Executive News Ed1tor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor, Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Editor Commentaries, leners, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commumty and the tree express1on of varying opinions on campus, through IaMers, IS encouraged. 
W'tll,BUCK, Tl-\~~~ 
ONLYONb WAY't£ 
aN F'ti.Y lOU YOUR !=AIR 
MARKET VALUb: ... 
HfRS~rnr;:
-~-.,. 

Kr;:vS TOTI-IE !=RAI-K~I~...
jlj YOU"REM 
N£WOWNER.
ll'Ell 
~ 


Politics prevent vvomen from gaining input and voice in today's Church 
Dear Editor: churches, Roman and non­
There were many crucial is­Roman. "Real Presence" does sues which were very badly not equal transubstantiation. misrepresented in Father Christian churches with a litur­Robert Griffin's column (The gical tradition share a belief in Observer, Feb.23) that a sing.le the real presence of Christ in letter could not do justice to the eucharist; it is the "How?" any one of them. Allow me, that yields varying answers. therefore, to point out as suc­Perhaps we should look to the cinctly as possible what I see as early Christians, not asking dangerous distortions. how this can happen, but simply 
First of all, Griffin has en­giving thanks that it does. gaged in the worst kind of stereotyping: women are "the There are also less glaring gentler sex," sometimes but equally misleading assump­half and somehow lose. Against 
in the NBA: Adrian Dantley, only those with terrible or fair "reasonable" but also "shrilll, tions: that all "Protestants" are Syracuse, it was 14, against Kelly Tripucka, Orlando programs would hire him. unreasonable and accusatory." alike; that "homemade altar DePaul, it was 18, and this Woolridge, John Paxson, Bill The "denominational" churches bread" (the only eucharist weekend against Georgia Tech, Laimbeer, and now David are "comfortless," with "empty bread for a long time in the 
it was 14. Now how can a team To the student body, I am in
Rivers. There are more, but I sanctuaries" which lack the early church when people truly 
play like a top contender in the think I have proved my point. support with all of you. It is "Real Presence" of Christ; the 
presented their gifts) is some­first half and come out in the The talent is there, but it is not time for serious change which eucharist itself has "lost its how less good than "hosts pre­second half and play totally op­used as it should be. The needs to happen soon. Those 
magic as a religious symbol;" pared in a convent"; that Notre 
posite? My answer is the coach. who support Digger are the
reason again is the coach. and priests are "that old gan~: Dame is the "City of the Blessed 
Secondly, look at the talent people who do not know about of (his)." Sacrament." we have. In comparison to Finally, take a look at the the game of basketball. I can In talking about the debate other schools, we have probably number of years that Digger handle losing, but only when its concerning the ordination of This column is offensive, er­one of the best talented teams has been coaching, and in com­justified. 
women in the Roman Catholic: roneous, and detrimental to 
in the nation. But somehow parison, look at how many 
church, Griffin, consciously or solid theology, true ecumenism these players' talents are not times he has been to the final not, makes one very pertinent and healthy inclusiveness. Even utilized correctly, thus causing four: once. Therefore, this does Patrick Vargo observation: women have "set the headline of the column
r 
r our team to be only mediocre. not make him a great coach. Holy Cross Hall their hearts on gaining access ("Women in the pastures of the Look at the players that have Maybe a fair one at that. As for Feb. 26, 1990 to our religion's all-powerful good shepherd"), implies that
r 
r symbol." How hypocritical and women should be grateful even
, 
misleading, then, to question to be allowed to graze with the
Fencing aptly suits the definition of 'sport' 
whether the motive behind the men. Griffin, who claims to be 
~ 
Dear Editor: make a valid assumption about and the highest winning per­debate is political. Control over respectful of women, describes In response to Mr. Guffey's anything, he should witness it centage (.930) of any tenured access to our religion's all­in the first paragraph his faith~ commentary on sports for himself. coach here. Both the women's powerful symbol by an exclu­in "the fatherhood of God, the
r (Observer, Feb.22), we find his Webster's Dictionary defines and men's teams are unde­sively male clergy is the ulti­brotherhood of man, and the remarks uneducated, ignorant, sport as "an activity, especially feated this year (14-0 and 18-0 mate politicization of the leadership of Jesus." He char­respectively)_ acterizes those in favor of
and insulting. We are senior when competitive, requiring eucharist. fencers on Notre Dame's team more or less vigorous bodily Quite frankly, all of the Notre women's ordination as and we extend an open invita­exertion, and carried on, Dame fencers have taken great Perhaps the most damaging "madcap Catholics." 
tion to Mr. Guffey to attend the sometimes as a profession, ac­offense to Mr. Guffey's t:om­and hurtful distortion is 
NCAA Championship Fencing cording to some traditional ments. We represent Notre Griffin's total lack of under­Marie Conn, IHM standing of, or appreciation
Tournament (which takes place form or set of rules." Fencing Dame with pride and dignity, Graduate Student at Notre Dame this spring), one combines intelligence, dexterity, and we cannot believe that one for, the doctrine of the Theology Dept. of our home meets, or any of speed, endurance, hard work, of our own sports editors rould eucharist in the Christian Feb. 23, 1990 our practices. self-discipline, individual be so insensitive and ignorant 
Mr. Guffey claims to not un­courage, and extensive train­in his remarks. 
Viewpoint welcomes IHtters and columns on a
Dan Yu

derstand the sport of fencing ing. 
Joel Clark 

variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint,
and does not believe that it Presently, Michael DeCicco, 
Off-Campus

should be "classified as a Notre Dame's head fencing 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Feb. 23, 1990

sport." We feel that for him to coach, has a record of 54 7-41 
DOONESBURY 
I M&TMARIA AFTl3R.. I SA/A/ Hti?../N THAT TRUa<eR FUCJ<. '3H13 PLAYW "5/JCON{) UKJMAN," 
ANP SH& CIJMPUTEI-Y RAN 
AIAJAY IAJITH THe MOVIe! 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I KNOW ACT1N6, AND 
All/[) THAT's Y&AH. I
/JU/&'18 M&, THAT WAS 
t-1./HeN YOU IA/~1? Hl3<
ACTING.' SHtCMllMAAIPW 
lJttJI?W YOIJI? Ff?lei-/{}51-(!P. I
THe 5CRt&N, 
W<&TO~ HATJ70HAVe GCWPf?lel-/{)5~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'What we anticipate seldom occurs; what we least expected generally happens.' 
Benjamin Disraeli 


Viewpoint ­
Thursday, March 1, 1990 page 11 
Liberals betray human rights in abortion stand 

The abortion issue is cur­
Maria Rhomberg
rently near, if not at, the head of the list of feminist and leftist On Human Rights concerns, yet the pro-choice moral is to say that women position seems incompatible can't make moral decisions." with both the traditional stance This statement is ridiculous. of the left, as well as a truly Michelman totally denies the consistent feminism. human fallibility of each of the 
Feminist Mary Meehan, who 1.6 million women choosing boasts that she's never voted abortion each year and as­for a Republican for president, sumes that questioning them writes: "People turn to the Left must have some sexist basis. 
because they are deeply con­Little attention has been paid cerned with helping the power­to the stance of a group of less-the poor. unorganized women called Feminists for Life workers. illegal immigrants, of America (FFL). They "offer the homeless. people exploited a way out of Falwell versus by multinational corporations. Steinem", hut are, conse­But who is more helpless and quently, in the painful position more in need of being saved of being across the battle lines from extinction than the fetus from their feminist colleagues who is being marked for abor­and comrades. tion? In that respect those in­volved in the Pro-Life Action The FFL position rests on two individual has to kill her child Society has a significant re­As writer Jason DeParle says: League are much farther to the fundamental beliefs: equal to get ahead, what does sponsibility to support women "One of the animating spirits of left than those who pride them­rights for all women and the 'getting ahead' mean?'' dealing with problem pregnan­liberalism and other factionsselves on how compassionate right of every baby to be born. 
cies. Efforts must continue to on the Left, and proudly so, isthey are." They support what they call an In 1970 Juli Loesch left the be made in providing physical the concern for the most vul­Inclusive Equal Rights Amend­Catholic church and immersed support (food, money, clothing, nerable. But who could beCertainly, feminists are right ment-a combination of the herself in feminism and the shelter) as well as emotional more vulnerable than the un­to complain about a lot of ERA and the Human Life push for legal abortion. In re­and psychological support to born? And how can liberalismthings-sexual exploitation, Amendment that would forbid a considering her protests these women, both during their hope to regain the glory ofdenial of rights to any person
double standards, economic against the Vietnam War she pregnancy and after the birth standing for humanity anddiscrimination among them, based on biological factors. found herself "inconsistent to of the child. 
morality while finding nothing etc.-but they fail to address Many members of FFL were the point of incoherence. We inhumane or immoral in the ex­
the contradictory implications once pro-choice. were saying that killing was not Perhaps most importantly, ef­termination of so much life?"
of the huge injustice that is fur­an acceptable solution to con­forts must be made to changethered when they support abor­Sharon Lond, FFL's national flict situations, yet when we had negative attitudes toward chil­Juli Loesch, of Feminists for tion. secretary, changed her position our own conflict situation, we dren and all vulnerable human Life, will be speaking at Notre 
after years of working in the were willing to go straight to life. People who claim to be Dame on March 1. 
Kate Michelman, head of the poorest section of Albany. She killing as a technical fix." The "pro-life" must be consistent in National Abortion Rights Ac­writes, "Drugs and crime are in feminist idea that a woman has their defense of life. Those who Maria Rhomberg is a juniortion League, says "If (a woman) large part due to the economic an inherent inalienable worth place themselves on the "Left" majoring in the Program of 
makes a decision (to have an structures of the ghetto, not to loses meaning if a woman because of their concern for Liberal Studies and Vice-Presi­abortion) then she's made the teen pregnancy. And women in claims that another type of justice, must realize their moral dent of NDISMC Right to Life. right decision. To even raise these communities generally human life has value only if she obligation to protect the un­This column is sponsored bythe question of when it's im-don't want abortions ... If an bestows it. born. the Coalition on Human Rights. 
S. Africa needs quick reform to avoid violence 
The release of Nelson Joseph L. Novak the general population own 87 apartheid-supporting Conser­will be the legal, political, and Mandela and the legalization of percent of the land, leaving 13 vative Party. However, this is economic reforms that will the African National Congress International Affairs percent of that land to the 75 unlikely. The immediate future have to be made in South Africa has fueled a belief that South repealed to end the outrages of percent black majority. of South Africa will probably be before the struggle for freedom Africa may actually be in so-called "petty" apartheid in Moreover, whites control 60 one of negotiations between the is accomplished. Clearly, South peaceful transition from white parks and hospitals. percent of South Africa's government and the ANC. Africa is still very much a rule to majority rule. After dismantling of the wealth while blacks receive only nation in transition. Encouraging signs abound. One apartheid system, political re­29 percent of that wealth. Any­Thus, de Klerk will have to senior government official, form must be undertaken. one who thinks economic speak to Nelson Mandela and Joseph L. Nouak is a third 
year law student and is a regu­
Minister for Constitutional Political reform would involve inequality does not have vicious Oliver Tambo. Certainly, the Affairs Gerrit Viljoen, has the acceptance by the white mi­effects on black living stan­subject of such negotiations lar Viewpoint columnist. asserted that white supremacy nority of the concept of "one dards should examine the could end within the decade. man, one vote." This would not health and education statis­
LETTERS 
Other reformers within mean "one man, one vote" only tics-average white life ex­President F.W. de Klerk's within one's own group pectancy is 66 years, for National Party are even said to whether that means white, blacks 44 years. Meanwhile, 98 
Pop tune corrupts 'virgin ears' support a comprehensive bill to black or Asian. For too long percent of whites are literate end apartheid. white South Africans have at­but only 53 percent of blacks Dear Editor: things have no place intruding 
Nonetheless, the fact remains tempted to offer blacks and are. For a change, I am writing themselves into the Notre that the pace of South African others a "freedom" that in­How can a person advance if not in response to some ob­Dame/ Saint Mary's community. reform must quicken before volves self-rule in one's particu­he or she cannot read and is scure column or letter to the I am disgusted and outraged black patience abruptly ends. lar group but not real control malnourished? Nelson Mandela editor, but rather to voice my that our infinitely benevolent Reforms must take place on of South Africa's destiny. and the ANC assert that as long objection to a pop tune played administration permits such three different levels-legal. Hence, all "homelands" must be as economic inequality persists over the audio system in North blatantly hedonistic material to 
political, and economic-or the abolished, as should single-race blacks will never benefit from Dining Hall on the eve of Feb. appear in any form at Notre black majority will be forced to legislatures. South Africa's great wealth 19. The song in question, Dame, much less passively al­violently take what is rightfully At its most basic level, South since it will always be blacks George Michael's "I Want Your lowing it to waft over nearly theirs. Such violence would help African political reform begins who will be poor. Mandela has Sex," may have some artistic half the student body in the no one in South Africa, espe­at a polling booth where South spoken of the future national­merit in its own right, but it is midst of dinner, traditionally cially an intransigent white Africans can vote from one ization of mines and other in­most certainly inappropriate an intimate meal shared by majority. common ballot for their own dustries. Who can blame him? fare for this campus. family. 
To prevent violence, legal re­representatives to one national The present system benefits I find it disgraceful and un­In a community such as ours, forms are what must take place legislature. If the results of only the few who are whites. pardonable that the adminis­steeped in Catholic tradition first and these must include the such elections lead to the elec­Surely, economic reform is tration, while finding it within and moral values, I find it truly complete dismantling of the tion of Marxists, so be it. All necessary and must entail its jurisdiction to censure despicable that the administra­apartheid system. First, the South Africans must be able to worker participation in nearly every other medium of tion should sit passively by Population Registration Act support the party of their management decisions and at expression on this campus, ir­while we are bombarded by ob­must be repealed. This act re­choice. Perhaps the legislature least preliminary public control responsibly neglects our scene, licentious smut that quires all South Africans to could be bicameral with an up­of certain enterprises. Perhaps inalienable right to the protec­stands diametrically opposed to 
register their race with the per house giving whites a set later these industries can be tion of our virgin ears from the message of chastity and government so the government number of seats for a select sold to private black investors. such monstrously offensive moral rectitude that permeates can use that fact against people number of years. However, Regardless, Mandela is correct lyrics as "Sex is natural, sex is this sacred university. 

of color. Second, the Group such an arrangement would when he says that all South good/Not everybody does it, but 
Areas Act must go. This act only be transitory like the Africans must be free of want everybody should." I can only hope that our gra­segregates South Africans into Lancaster House agreements and hunger before they are While I will be the first to ciously paternal administration different areas on the basis of that ended minority rule in truly free. admit that George Michael is will take this letter to heart and race. Zimbabwe. entirely free to believe what he implement the necessary stepsWith a repeal of the The final element of the new Overall, President de Klerk likes, I must protest the laxity to rectify this repugnant and Population Registration Act South Africa involves economic has moved South Africa at least in editorial attentiveness that loathsome situation. It is offen­
-
and Group Areas Act, Pass laws reform. Reform of the economy 
partially towards a multi-racial permitted this particular song sive to the student body and which control the movement of must begin from the premise state, but there is a long way to (and I'm sure, many like it) to detrimental to the image of the black South Africans would be that blacks own virtually noth­go, and many things could go slip past those responsible for University.unenforceable and purposeless. ing of their own land. The facts wrong. For example, a white censuring such things. Matt Farina
Finally. the Reservation of speak for themselves. Whites backlash could occur leading to That this song was aired is Cavanaugh Hall 
Separate Amenities Act must be who account for 14 percent of the installation of the morally reprehensible; such 
Feb. 19, 1990 

-




Accent 
page 12 

Poets Coulson and Stanton featured tonight at Festival 
-
'The ~mportance of Being Earnest' 
Wilde's satire of Victorian society 
JASON WII\ISLADE 
accent writer 
Oscar Wilde would certainly enjoy satirizing and criticizing today's society, as much as he does the British Victorian era in his classic show. "The Importance of Being Earnest," presented by the Notre Dame Communication/T'heatre de­partment this Wednesday through Sunday at Washington Hall. Like today, Wilde's world of irony consists of "style not sincerity," and is, as described by one of the character's, "an age of surfaces." 
The show tells the story of two soeially mobile, upper class dandies, Jack Worthing (Matt Nash) and Algernon "Algy" Montcrieffe (Timothy Deenihan). These two charac­ters experiment with "Bunburying". a practice of creating fictitious relationships as an excuses to avoid engage­ments. The confusion begins when Jack tells Algy he takes on the name Ernest in town, while keeping the name Jack in the country. When Algy takes on the persona of Jack's fabri­cated brother, Ernest. the ac­tion and the confusion continue with both friends using the name of Ernest at different times. 
Mistaken identities and false shows of sincerity bring the characters to confusion and the audience to laughter. Jack must 

--
deal with Algy's pompous aunt, Lady Bracknell. played wonder­fully by visiting professional Kate Burke, before he can marry his love, Gwendolyn Fairfax (Robin Dvorak). Lady Bracknell's daughter. Algy also falls in love with Jack's young ward, Cecily Cardew (Tasha Gutting). 
The two couples are in trou­ble. however, because both Gwendolyn and Cecily think that they are engaged to someone named Ernest. The main reason the two girls offer their love is due to Jack and Algy having the name Ernest. This emphasis on the shallow basis for their love becomes an ongoing theme in Wilde's play, showing the characters of Cecily and Gwendolyn as empty-headed society girls, and the two young men as ma­nipulative playboys. 
Extra humorous touches are offered by the idiosyncratic performances of Helene Mengert as Miss Prism, Cecily's tutor, and Gerald Welch as Dr. Chasuble, the parish rector. Finally, the robotic servant class is represented by Algy's butler, Lane (Mario Borelli) and Cecily's elderly butler, Merriman (David Foster). 

The staging for the show is quite intricate, with an overall magenta color scheme for Algy's house in Act I, and a lighter, green and white atmo­sphere for the garden scenes. The sets are realistic while still 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Algernon (left) shows reluctance in returning a cigarette case to Jack. This cigarette case leads to Algernon finding out about Jack's alias. 

JULIE HAURYKIEWICZ 
accent writer 

Continuing the week of Sophomore Literary Festival readings, poets Joseph Coulson and Maura Stanton will speak tonight at 8:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Coulson will speak first, fol­lowed by Stanton. Both poets will host a forum tomorrow, March 2, from 11 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. in the library auditorium. 
Coulson is the author of "A Measured Silence" and "The Letting Go." His newest work, "Graph and Other Poems,"was 
Sophomore Literary' 
Festival! 
published this month, and he expects another book to bn re­
leased this fall. 

Originally a native of Detroit, Coulson pursued graduatP work with such mentor-poets as Robert Creeley and John Logan at the State University of New York at Buffalo. There, he received his M.A. in Creative Writing and a Ph.D, in American Literature. Since lending a touch of symbolism 
dealing with hypocritical upper 
class ideals. 
This symbolism is also pre­sent in how the actors are di­rected. Very seldom does a character look directly at all­other character when speaking. Instead, they always gaze slightly to the side of the other character or directly at the au­dience. This practice is oft(•n performed by Jack, the charac­ter most concerned with proper social etiquette and impres­sions. These indirect stares are awkward and unsettling at first. but they become finely in­tegrated into the whole scheme of upper class manners and rituals, in which serving cake instead of bread and butter is the ultimate insult. 
The audience member can see that these characters are the mouthpieces for Wilde':; witticisms and ironies. They represent Wilde speaking di­rectly to the audience, making society aware of its silly ru tes and customs of what "one" should or shouldn't do. This il­lusion is produced by each of the actors' characteristic and proper stares. The modern-day viewer cannot help but feel di­rectly addressed by Wilde·~: perceptions of society as por­trayed by the Victorian cha.rac­ters. 
The dialogue is quick and witty, and attention must be paid to every word. Fortunately, the upper-class British accents do not hinder the speech or lessen the jokes. Although the play is a full three hours. Wilde and the actors set a consistently quick pace and do not let up . The play is filled with quick witted epigrams, constantly displaying the superficiality and hypocrisy in which the characters revel. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Gwendolyn Fairfax (Robin Dvorak), Lady Bracknell's daughter, is the object of Jack Worthing's love in "The Importance of Being Earnest." 
Nash and Deenihan provide cissistic women obsessed with an excellent contrast in display­appearances. ing their characters' polar atti­tudes towards manners. "The Importance of Being However, the actors also effec­Earnest" is a classic comedy of tively emphasize the character's manners, enjoyable and engag­similarities as scheming society ing. It will be presented men. The same can be said of Thursday, Friday. and Saturday Dvorak and Gutting. Although at 8:10p.m. and Sunday at 3:10 the innocent Cecily is of the p.m. Tickets are available at the country and the worldly door and in advance at the Gwendolyn is of the city, the LaFortune Student Center two are both shallow and nar-Information Desk. 

1985, he has taught at both the Marlborough School in Los Angeles and UCLA. 
A poet and professor at Indiana University, Maura Stanton has served as the Director of the Indiana University Writers' Conference. She has twice been the recipient of both the National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship and the PEN Syndicated Fiction Award. 
Stanton has also been a judge for numerous literary contests. Her works include "Cries of Swimmers," "Snow on Snow," and "Molly Companion." Maura Stanton 

~---------------~ -------~­
Thursday, March 1, 1990 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint MaJy's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musl be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
-
GUESS WHAT! I'M STILL ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT $$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ PHILIP KRAKER To the blond in the red sweater ­NOTICES DESPERATELY SEEKING A HOMES from $1 (U-repair). Need Billy Joel Tickets Ill! Will it be the NBA or the business You sat in the first or second row of GOOD PIANO. IF YOU HAVE Delinquent tax property. Worse than you could believe!! world? Choices, choices. Consult the bleachers behind section 2 TYPING AVAILABLE ONE, PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT Repossessions. Call 1-602-838-Please call #2030 or #481911 your cruise with 2 friends. Specific enough? 287-4082 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM. 8885 Ext. GH 6262. Don1 forget.$$$$$$$$$$!!!!1!1!1 
director Julie McCoy to help make your choice. Meal McGill, WORDPROCESSING EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT Although we've only just begun the 272-1837 READING BOOKS AT HOME. SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. best is yet to come.. 
CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B340. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, ND Student Art Forum SATURDAY Lea EXPERT TYPING AVAILABLE. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-Faculty Lecture Series: SATURDAY CLUB 23 CALL LIZ 234-1075 AFTER 1 PM. NEED RIDE TO/NEAR PHILLY 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. SATURDAY FOR SPRING BREAK! will pay & Dick Stevens of ND Photo.dept help drive. Call Larissa x3719 80' FORD FAIRMONT. "My Work In Progress" St. Paul and the Martyrs 
NEED A BABYSITTER? 21 YR AUTOMATIC, A/C. 110,000 MI. To Jeannie, Hi! This is Dean.(AKA 
SATURDAY

OLD, NO SENIOR, WILLING TO RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA RUNS OK. $640. CALL LEE, 272-Thursday, March 1. Dine, Dog) I met you last Friday on SATURDAY CLUB 23
SIT EVENINGS. HAVE CAR/WILL FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL HELP 8538. 7pm in the Snite Museum Napoleon Street, Your eyes are as 
SATURDAY

TRAVEL, RATES NEGOTIABLE. DRIVE & $$. PLEASE CALL all Welcome brown as bark and your lips as ripe CALL MICHELLE 283-1825. CHRIS AT X4078 as melons. I hope you remember
TICKETS who I am. I served your beer first MAIL BOXES ETC. EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER SCOTT SCOTT SCOTT SCOTT because you looked so luscious. I Shipping, Packaging, Copies. OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! forgot your last name and I have Resumes from $15.00. at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN Happy birthday on March 2. an SYR coming up. Please
Come rain, sleet or snow, 

277-MAIL Pennsylvania, 21/2 hours-NYC. LANDOVER,MO OVER BREAK 21 finally!!!!!!!!! respond, I already looked under 
The Windy City Shuttle still comes 

Co-ed 6/23-8/21. Salary, travel WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND every Jeannie in the phone book. I
and goes! 

INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund allowance and room and board. GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ GILBERT GILBERT GILBERT Tickets only $1 0 at the LaFortune am getting nowhere. Please write in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! Option-pre-camp work starting PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 back.
Information Desk. 

MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 6/1 0. Warm, fun family Need ride to Baltimore/D.C for Love, Sweet Naked Dine atmosphere. Specialists for all I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE Spring Break. Will pay $$. Kathy sports, waterfront, camping, NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME x4914 computers, arts. Campus ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT 1st Annual B.P. PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES Interviews March 23, 1990 1 0-5. 502-582-1920. Stairclimb for S.O.S. friday nite at club 23 
For a hot tip on where Write Box 823, Lynbrook, N.Y. ••*SENIORs••• Saturday,March 2nd MMIIII.M.AAAPREMAAII.MAMAI\.11. to find a good time 11563 or call 516-559-4562 **•SENIORS*** 11am-1pm at B.P.!! MMMSWEATMMM Call 647-0900 ext 1740 
•••sENIORS*** Come and climb, just for AMITCHIESMA 
St. Mary's Campus Events NEED 3 KENTUCKY LOWER LAST CHANCE TO BUY: the health of it!!! Ho~ine ARENA G.A.'S. SENIOR FORMAL BIDS!!!!
ATTENTION-HIRING! 
CALLBRYCE X1646 TONI~HT: LEMANS LOBBY 6-9 HolaJose,Government jobs -your area. 
? Que tal?

$17,840-$69.485. Call1-602-838­
LOST/FOUND 
Slimfast, Espero que todo vaya bien!! 
8885. EXT R6262. 
B.P. Stairclimb Why should I go home to mommy for S.O.S.
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: 
LOST $Need Missouri Tix X1418 $ when I can go to your girl's house? Saturday, March 2nd 
Outstanding brother/sister sports 
11 am-1 pm at B.P.

Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­camps -22 mile lake near "On Come and climb for a good Vision case. Please call x2967 if Golden Pond" site seek staff. 
found. Tough Luck! cause!!
Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls 
St. Edwards Hall Forum 
Prizes!Ill
Zaf

-215-884-3326; boys-914-698­
Father Oliver Williams, 
Refreshments!!! I LOST: GREY I.D. CASE in the 

1833. . I Need Missouri Tix! coatroom of the Snite Thursday, 2-I want to buy your Missouri 
CSC, Associate Provost 22 at5:10 P.M. To the person who Ticket --Call 283-2785 
Kevin x1758 

ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS 
Speaks On: 

took this, you were seen and 1.0. 
FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F HEY!! GOOD SAMARITAINS!I! 
"What I think about 

ed. Return it immediately and no 
1OAM-4PM 255-8700 1st Annual
PLEEEEZ help me out here!!!!
questions will be asked. GOING TO CINCINNATI3/9-10? 
Nelson Mandela 
B.P. Stairclimb for S.O.S.
Please take me with you! $$$

SUMMER JOBS When:Saturday, March 2nd 
and the Future of 

LOST: a walkman from the I DESPARATELY need to trade Tanya x3688.
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 11am-1pm 
South Africa• 

Rocke. It was a x-mas present, $$ my MIZZOU student ticket for a GA
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Where:Breen -Phillips Hall
for my wonderful father! 

reward offered-no questions. call 
A First-Hand Report

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Why:For the health of it!! 
x1703. PLEEZ call Bryan at 272-7313
NEAR LAKE PLACID Prizes!!! Refreshments!!! 
Thursday, March 1

to help out a man in need!!! STUDENTS...
CALL 1-800-343-8373 
7:00p.m. Lost!! Lost!! Lost!! Lost!! $$$$1 REALLY NEED TWO JUST DO IT!!!!! 
St. Edward's Hall

KEYS & ID in a blue Notre Dame MISSOURI STUDS OR GA'S.
Looking for a ride for Spring Break 
pouch between library auditorium PLEASE CALL PETE AT #2043. Take advantage of student
to Long Island/NYC area. 1st Annual B.P. Stairclimb and Cushing Hall at around 2:00 LEAVE MESSAGE. discounts on IBM PS/2's.
Can leave Friday. Call Pat@ forS.O.S.!!III!I!!!!I on Monday, Feb #283-1786 Saturday, March 2nd 
26. Please call Ann X4972 Visit the ND Computer Store for 11 am-1 pmMISSOURI ! MY FRIEND FROM more details. 
at Breen -Phillips Hall

WANTED: To the girls of 234 (or is it 324?):
'NOVA WANTS TO SEE A REAL Come join us,just for the Please tell of the "unknownB-BALL GAME--NEED JUST 1 
health of it!!!!!!l!!l!ll! Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. FOR HIGH-CALIBER --CALL BRETT AT 3841 Prizes!!!! Refreshments!!!! 
POINT/OFF GUARD WANTED pleasures" in your preferred mode 
of transportation. Did you keep

Dark blue. with red stripes. Any Usten baby...
BOOKSTORE TEAM. LAST YEAR your sunglasses on?
info call Tom at 234-9728. Read your medical chart. 
3 IN FINAL 64 AND 1 IN FINAL 32. hmmmmmm--Galileo
Need 1 Mizzou stud. GA ticket.
REWARD IF YOU FEEL READY, CALL Please call Bill x1696. Thanx DREW-HEAD, St. Paul WHO??? I need a ride to Grand Rapids, Ml
I am sorry you did not get

MIKE OR STEVE AT X1650 Come to McCormick's 3/1 or 3/2. Please call Jeni 284­
NEED Missou tix RA--1 think you would have Saturday, Mar. 3rd 5017.
4 GA's and 2 Studs been very good at it. It is The McBoathouse McBiues Please call Matt x2265 their loss!! But hey, you will
Looking for someone to house sit Band 
now have the distinct honor 

this summer? Responsible 10til2
Help me!! My parents need 2 and priviledge of living with
St. Marys student is available ---It's McCooler, Man Hey Sophomore Women!! Join
Mizzou B-ball Tlx. me and Melissa again!!! Buck 
starting in May. Call Aimie Vargas us for a study break!! 
Call Mike #2940 up little camper: things will 
284-4417. * IRISH TAKE SOHO •
LOST: Walkman left at get better for you! 
The BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND March?
Montgomery Theater after Need 2 Missori Tix call Mike We love you! 
at McCormick's 8:30-9:30
x3597 meandUssa
Icebergs on Tuesday. Please call FOR RENT Sat. Mar. 3rd 10til2 Haggar Chameleon Room Rob at X2330 . -What IS the "scoop" on 
...NINTENDO TOURNEY• ..

SUMMER RENTAL 6/1-8/1 campus bands anyway??? *PLus·
BEST OFFER: 2 Miss & 2 Kent Two man Tecmo Bowl
5 Bdrm,2 Bath,Furnished All NO women are FOUND: One black Studio Six $120p.mnth p.prsn 
tix. Call Mike x2727 Win a Nintendo Action Set 
invited to join us for dinner at 5:00, shoe at St. Ed's late Friday Night 515 W. Marion 
Open to all classes! Sign up at Sr. ~--------------------, 
to study afterwards, before the 

We have tickets for the following Class Office 3-5 by Mon. SUMMER JOBS
(Did you walk barefoot?) JON x2506 study break I 
events at the LaFortune Box NSELORS ·Boys Camp, W. Mass.
Call # 4364 to identify and claim. 
Office: I Git1s Camp, Maine 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
Top Salary, Rm/Bdllaundry, Travel

1. The Importance of Being
Did you lose a 1 inch diameter gold SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 ATTENTION 2ND FLOOR GRACE
Allowance.
Earnestearring near Wash Hall? To You guys have NO class!

Must love kids and have skill in one of

2. John Kolisch hiag
recover your earring.please come BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Do the world a favor, learn how tothe following activijies:3. George Carlin to 213 St. Ed's with the correct 219-291-7153 

treat women right.
Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball,4. Dream Girls

match. 
-8MC

Basketball, Bicycling, Chearteading,2 and 4 bedrm. furnished 
5. 
Gallagher 


Dance. Drama. Drums. Fencing, Goff.
6. 
Oh Calcutta


LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! houses; 90-91 year. Great 
Molly--We know this is a little late, A gold, Gruen watch cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 
uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. 
but something of this magnitude 
Karate. Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses.
Need 2 Missouri tickets!! 

with a smooth brown band or 288-5653 cannot go unmentionned. Your
Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry,in between Knott and St. Ed's. 
call 284-5235 

"fall from Grace" is evident Call Brad at x1701. FURNISHED 6-BDRM., 2-BATH Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, ~ because of your behavior two
Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Watan;ki,
Need 2 Missouri tix!! 

SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE. 
weekends ago. However, judging 
Weights, Wood. Men call or write:
call 284-5235 

CALL 234-6688 OR 234-5041. 
from your limp, your fall was LOST...diamond and sapphire ring. 
Camp Winadu. 5 Glen Lane, 

anything but graceful!!! High sentimental value .. 
Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 

Love, ****reward********* 
381-5983. Women call or write: Camp

FOR SALE 
Vega. P.O. Box tnt, Duxbury, MA 

The quint Call Debbie #2935. 
l ' PERSONALS I 
02332 (617) 934-6536. IBM PC system: color-graphics, HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG 
'-----------.J 
HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & Jugs, Gin, Feret, & Gimpy, ­
~©0&10

printer, &software:$1 000 or best TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE We have qu~e a weekend inWANTED offer-call X1090 & leave message. WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & $1 OFF Come see the Rick Astley front of us. Get ready to get sloppy on Friday( or tonight for that 
CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. of Notre Dame --Jayme Stayer! In 
SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343-I 12" international I concert tonight at 7:30, 115 matter). We must make up for our OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 Plane TX to DENVER sobriety this past weekend with the
8445. Crowley Hall. Where does that 
mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII leave 3/10 return 3/17 1 combo 1 rents.
voice come from?? Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write Ride Needed To NH/Boston area
out of Indianapolis Love, Katie & Molly CHEAP! #4825 
IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del for Spring Break. Will share driving Krista,
think spring break! HAPPY BIRTHDAY
Mar. CA 92625. & expenses. Call 283-3442. Free Delivery I Thank you for the last 6 months, 
-
GARY FRANCESCONI ! I ! 
they have been very special to me.
expires 3/8/90 

Kitette and Cock Robin--Hope you I love you. SPRING BREAK RIDERS NEEDED ATTENTION FEMALE have fun at the dance this John WE LOVE YOU, to drive back to Boston/NH area for weekend. As concerned roomies
TRAVELERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! .... break & share expenses. Call Kara we must inquire into your SPRING BREAK
FOR SALE: Spring Break MARIE & MARIE plane ticket to Ft.Lauderdale
1825. "relationship". Are you: A. dating B. 
BEST OFFER call Molly Cheer up and prepare for 
seeing each other C. going out or DAYTONA 
...
@284-5410 Bookstore--All is not lost!! 
Correction Please let us know. We just cannot $139 rm. only; $229 w. trans Das Krieg mistakenly appeared in Need a ride to Md, Va. or DC seem to figure it out. Why just last 
D. "boyfriendgirlfriend" like? 
yesterday's personals instead of area over break. Will pay and help week it was "over" and now you P.S. Thanks to Ray Flannery and High quality accommadations Der Krieg. We ask that you forgive drive. Call Tom 4180 75 Buick Runs good seem to be back in the swing of Joe Hippler for a great season. us for this error. And we can probably call off the war too.
X3013 things!!!! call Todd 1-800-265-1799 
I I

-
J 

r-----------~~--~~~~--~~--~----------------~------------------------------------------~-----------------------------~------· 
• 
-
--
• 
-
page 14 The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1990 
Syracuse tops Seton Hall; Hawkeyes stun Boilermakers 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Derrick Coleman tipped in Billy Owens' missed shot at the buzzer Wednesday night as No. 10 Syracuse continued its domination of Seton Hall, defeating the Pirates for the 20th straight time, 71-69 in the Big East. 
The victory was the third straight for the Orangemen (21-5, 11-4) and it handed Se­ton Hall (11-15, 4-11) its eighth loss in nine games. 
Seton Hall had rallied from a 69-63 deficit in the final 2:14 and tied the game when Oliver Taylor drove the lane and 
scooped  in  a  layup  with  9.2  
seconds to play.  
After  a  Syracuse  timeout,  

Bengals 
continued from page 20 
repeatedly to win the round convincingly, and then knocked Elevado to the canvas in the third round to win easily. 
Bartlett will have his hands full on Friday, however, as he will face sophomore John Man­
fredy,  who  methodically  de­ 
stroyed  Bill  Wheeler  in  the  
other 134-pound fight.  

In the 144-pound division, two-time champion Doug Biol­chini came out with gauze taped to a cut on his chin which required 10 stitches after his 
Seven 
continued from page 20 
need this win to get the number four spot in the tournament." 
Pacing Dayton (5-7 in the MCC) will be Annette Melvin and Kaihra Goodman. Melvin leads the team in steals, with 33, and field goal shooting percentage, at 47.1 percent. Goodman ranks fourth in the MCC in re­bounding with a 7.5 average and was named Player of the Week recently. 
"Goodman has really been starting to score lately," ex­plained McGraw. "They hadn't been good off the block, so she's been helping their inside game." 

to one of the victorious teams.  upsets."  
Balloon Bouquets Dish Gardens  FULL SERVICE FLORIST Plants Corsages Boutonnieres  Bouquets Arrangement Fresh and Sil  

Taking Liebscher's place in the Irish starting line-up will be senior Lisa Kuhns, who is aver­aging 8.4 ppg and 3.0 rpg. Be­sides compensating for the low number of players, McGraw claimed Notre Dame will not have to change its game-plan much by subbing for Liebscper, who is questionable for next Tuesday's game against Detroit as well. 
"Offensively, things won't be any different," said McGraw. "I think Lisa will do a fine job." 
Adding to the Irish pressures is the looming lOOOth point for 
IMPACT TIGHTS IS COMING Td N.D. 
Friday, March 2nd Noon-4:00 Dooley Room, LaFortune Center 


FITNESS APP"-REL MJD SWIMWE"-R FOR ""-EROBICS"DMJCING"RUNNTNG"SWIMMING 
LARGE SELECfiON OF COLORFUL SITLES FROM CONSERVATIVE TO OliTRAGEOUS 
NOW BOQJ(JNG FITNESS F"-SHION PAATIESI CALL lfl-4543 FOR INFORMATION 
Owens took the inbounds pass, dribbled the length of the court and tossed up an off-balance shot driving the lane. The ball bounced off the rim, but Cole­man grabbed it in midair and pushed it off the backboard and in for his only basket of the half. 
Syracuse had led the entire second half, thanks in large part to Owens, who scored 15 of his 21 points and four times thwarted Seton Hall rallies with baskets. His two free throws with 2:14 to play had given the Orangemen the 69-63 lead. 
Coleman finished with 15 points, Michael Edwards added 14 points and Stephen Thomp­son had 11. 
No. 3 Missouri 65, 
Kansas St. 60 
Third-ranked Missoul'i locked up its seventh Big Eight bas­ketball championship Wednes­day night, riding 28 points and 1 7 rebounds by Doug Smith to a 65-60 victory over Kansas State. 
Missouri goes into its regu­lar-season finale at Notre Dame Saturday with a 26-3 record and one of the nation's hottest players in the 6-foot-10 Smith, who has averaged al­most 28 points in his last six games. 
The Tigers, 12-2 in the Big Eight with road losses to Okla­homa and Kansas State, also got a boost from point guard 

quarterfinal fight on Tuesday. nent for uppercuts to the face. Biolchini had a difficult time The judges seemed to bo unim­with Matt Potts, the crowd fa­pressed with Conley's obvious 
vorite who was less skilled but skill, though, and Conley had to just as determined as Biolchini. sweat out the victory Biolchini finally was able to announcement in a split deci­
solve Potts in the third round, sion. however, and knocked him Junior Jim Hawkins seored a down in that final stanza be­split decision victory in the fore scoring a unanimous deci­other 162-pound fight, using a sion. Lee Whitman defeated strong second round to impress Bobby Burke in the other 144-the judges. 
pound match. The referee stopped a 185­
Junior Norm Conley displayed pound fight between John Car­the night's most impressive ney and defending champion variation of punches in his 162-Ricky Purcell at 1: 11 of the pound bout with Ed Schmitt. third round as Purcell recorded Conley made consistently used the win. Purcell had trouble in body blows to set up his oppo-the second round after a strong 
Robinson. The junior guard, invitation to the NCAA Tour­who leads Notre Dame with nament. Notre Dame received 
14.4 ppg, needs only twenty six votes in last week's poll, but more to become the seventh McGraw insists that the two Irish player to achieve that "have nothing to do will each mark. other." 
"I think it's really playing on McGraw says the Irish her mind and I wish people chances of receiving the invita­would stop talking about it," tion are pretty good, but ulti­commented McGraw. "With mately the decision is out of four games remaining, she only Notre Dame's control. needs to get five points in each "We're not in the driver's seat game. She'll have no problem on this one," McGraw ex­reaching it before the season plained, "but we should know ends." more after this weekend. Their 
More importantly for the are a lot of conference tourna­team right now is attaining an ments that should determine 
(Jane Special) Student Haircuts 
$8.00 ByJaneOnly 
I'm only 5 min. from campus 
The Castle 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Convenient Parking 
272·8471 
Grad/Faculty/Staff 
0J0~1Uf0ml~~ 

Lee Coward. He came off the knocking the Boilermakers out bench in the first half after of the Big Ten lead. missing several games with an Iowa snapped its six-game injury. losing streak to improve to 12­
Kansas State (16-13, 6-7) 14 overall and 4-12 in the scored the first five points of league. Purdue, which whipped the game, but Smith's two free Iowa 80-59 earlier this season, throws with 7:51 left in the half fell to 20-6, 12-4. Michigan gave the Tigers their first lead, State is 11-3 in the conference. 17-15. Kansas State never went ahead again. Bullard's short turnaround 
jumper on the left side came 
with eight seconds left. Pur­

Iowa 64, due's Tony Jones dribbled the 
No. 9 Purdue 63 length of the court with the in­
Matt Bullard, playing his last 
bounds pass but missed a game at Carver-Hawkeye 
jumper from the left side. Arena, scored 15 points and hit Jimmy Oliver's shot from deep the winning shot Wednesday 
in the right corner swished in, night to lead Iowa to a 64-63 
but officials ruled time had ex­victory over No. 9 Purdute, 
pired. 

start, but managed to recover Michael Butler and Shane in the third round. Hitzeman advanced by 
Robert Urban used his hands walkover in the 150-pound divi­of stone to pound his way to sion. victory as the referee stopp•ed In addition, John Sordi and his fight against Steve two-time defending champ Vanatsky 1:16 into the second Vance Becklund defeated Tim round of the other 185-pound Tyvand and Dave Tyndall re­fight. spectively in the 158-pound di­
Also, in the 127-pound divi­vision; Chuck Moser and Kerry sion, Timothy Phelan heat Wate were impressive in 160­Trent Haywood and Brian pound wins over Ken Hamer Stokes defeated Drew and Steve Kubicki; Patrick Fay Dougherty; Mick Meyer and beat Davey Jones and Kevin Erik Milito advanced in the Max punished Mark Ross in the 138-pound division with wins 17 4-pound division; and Chris over Mike Jennings and Ernie Kiley and Mike Burner scored Tacogue respectively; and Kurt victories over Kurt Heil and Lauber won unanimously over Michael Ryan in the 180-pound. 
our chances." The invitations will not be given 
Although the Irish have out until March 11, after the earned a 19-6 record this year MCC championships. and are undefeated (14-0) in "Our record speaks for it­their conference, McGraw said self." said McGraw, "but if that major upsets this weekend teams score major upsets, they could influence the tournament may get the at-large bids in­committee to give the Irish bid stead of us. We don't want any 
r----------------------,
110°/o OFF CASH AND CARR'fl 1 with SMC 01~ NO student ID 1 
1be ero.inp 1111111 Soutb ot tlnlnnlty Pm-k 1111111 
-----------··-----------· 
Mis~~~M~ 5901 Grape Rd. 
The Thomas J. White Center, Right to Life, The Center for Civil and Human Rights and the Center for Social Concerns Present. .. 
Two lectures witllr anti-war and pro-life activis~· and writer 
Juli Loe~sch Wiley: 
~0 (D[])CBrffiCBffiCBCBff ~ LDJ0(D\l)c00IDCBffiCB0 
12:15 p.m. Law School Courtroom 

7:30 p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1ST 
Thursday,March1~,1~9~9~0__________________________________Th~e~O~b=se~N~e=r~--------------------------------------------~pa~gfe~15 
Late Men's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups for anyone who missed all the other sign-ups will be held from 2-4 p.m. Monday, March 3, in the SUB of­fice. This will be the final opportunity for sign-ups. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be on March 26. 
In the South Bend sectional Wednesday night, Clay High School edged Mishawaka 80-76 to advance to the semifinals. The winning Colonials will face Riley, a victor over St. Joe Wednesday, in Friday night's semifinal. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Cross country ski rentals will be Thursday-Sunday from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. at the golf shop as weather permits. 
NVA needs officials for floor hockey. The pay is $8.50 per game. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Women's lacrosse club will practice from 6 to 8 
p.m. Wednesday and 5 to 7 p.m. Friday at Angela Athletic Facility. Call 284-5207 for more informa­tion. 
Troy Mallette scored the tie-breaking goal 49 sec­onds into the third period as the New York Rangers, buttressed by their special teams, beat the Washing­ton Capitals 3-2 on Wednesday night. In other NHL action, the Penguins beat the Devils 2-1, Detroit topped the Islanders 4-3, and the Whalers defeated the Canadiens 3-1. -The Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at The Ob­server in Lafortune. The Observer does not guaran­tee that briefs will be printed and briefs will be edited for clarity and length. Because of space con­straints, no brief may run more than two times. 

Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In sear~h of adventure, action-or just simply to escape. 
American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest -exclusively for student Cardmembers: 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF 1WO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-tO many of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six -weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 provided they are still full time students~ 
• 
10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-With your own personalized discount card, valid through january 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.) 

• 
2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL­when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® Free Travel Program. 


AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help 
APPLY TODAY 
1-800-942-AMEX 
speed the process.) 

Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again. • 
And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
So don't miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing! 

Membership Has Its Privileges• 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

-
*Ifyou are already a srudent American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, PO. Box 35029, Ann: Srudc:nt Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available berween cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVE_R. 
.. 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 1 , 1990 
' 

Garden unfriendly to 1\llavericks 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird scored 31 points, and a 14-2 third-quarter surge led the Celtics to a 111-98 victory Wednesday night that kept the Dallas Mavericks winless at Boston Garden in their 10-year history. 
The Mavericks, 0-10 in Boston, were led by Derek Harper with 30 points and Rolando Blackman with 18. They have won seven of their last 10 games but have been held under 100 points in five of their last six. 
Boston, returning home after going 4-4 on a 13-day road trip, won its third straight game. It got 21 points from Michael Smith and 16 from Reggie Lewis. 
Hawks 102, Pacers 99 
Kevin Willis scored 19 points and grabbed 18 rebounds as 

Fields lay· dormant as talks continue 
WINTER HAVEN. Fla. (AP)­The freshly painted seats sparkle in the sun. 
The grass in the infield and outfield is finely manicured, as green as a four-leaf clover. 
The seats, though, are empty. There are no spike marks in the grass. 
There are no ballplayers on the fields. No crack of the bat meeting a ball. The silence is eerie, like that in an old grave­yard. 
Like the mighty Casey. major league baseball has struck out. 
The Observer 1steve Moskop For the second time in 15 The Dayton Flyers, shown here in their last trip to Notre Dame, climbed years, spring training has been all over Notre Dame Wednesday, dominating the second half to beat put on hold by a labor dispute the Irish for the first time since 1976. between club owners and the 
~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------·-----
Flyers 
continued from page 20 
with 10. Ellis pulled down a

... 
game-high 16 rebounds. 
The Irish outrebounded the Flyers 41-23, but it was seven offensive boards by Dayton in the second half that may have sealed Notre Dame's fate. Four of those came in an early sec­ond-half spurt when Dayton pulled away. 
"That's just lack of concen­tration and blockouts," Phelps said. "That led to points and that put us in a negative. We never recoverHd from that." 
Notre Dame overcame a nine­point deficit to lead 42-40 at the half, but Dayton took •over in the second stanza. 
The Flyers scored the first eight points of the second half on a tip-in by Wes Coffee and three-pointers from Knight and Springer. The Irish pulled within six at 50-44 on a base­line jumper by Robinson and then trailed 58-50 with 13:57 left on another Robinson bas­ket. 
Then Dayton turned it up a notch. The Flyers scored 13 of the next 15 points to push the margin to 71-52 with 8:50 re­maining. 
They increased the lead to 78­56 on a Corbitt jumper with just 4:47 left. The closest Notre Dame could get was 89-75 when Williams hit a threll­pointer from the right side with 
1:48 left. Dayton had seven steals and

-
forced 11 Notre Dame turnovers in the first half, but Robinson and Ellis helped the Irish with a strong inside game. 
With the score tied at 10, Dayton ran off 13 of the next 15 points for a 23-12 advan­tage. The Flyers Jed 27-19 with 
9:06 left on a Coffee layup, but Notre Dame scored seven straight points -five from Ellis and two from Kevin Ellery -to 

pull within one at 27-26. shooting, while Ellis added 11 Ahead 34-33, the Irish built points and 10 rebounds. 
their biggest lead at 40-35 on 
four points from Robinson and Notre Dame outrebounded 
two from Daimon Sweet. Dayton 23-9 in the first half Robinson finished the half and connected on 59 percent of with 18 points on 7 -of-1 0 their first-half field goals. 
,. ... 
' 

.-Ihe Obsener___ 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by Friday, March 2 to Colleen Cronin. For further information, contact Colleen Cronin at 239-5303. 
\.... ~ 
..... 


Divisions for Undergrad Men 

ROSTER MINIMUM OF12-MAXIMUM OF 16 ALL PLAYERS FROM THE SAMEHALL RULES HANDED OUI' WITH SCHEDULES BANDII.OSEJI.S INATTHENVAOFF1CE PLAYWILLSTAJI.T AS WEATHERPERMITS 
IDEADLINE •MARCH 7I 
Atlanta survived a late flurry of 3-point shots. 
It was the fourth victory in a row for the Hawks, who snapped Indiana's two-game winning streak and beat the Pacers for the first time in four meetings this season. Indiana had won seven of its previous 10 games. 
Dominique Wilkins also had 19 points for Atlanta and Moses Malone added 17 points and 12 rebounds. Reggie Miller led Indiana with 24 points, in­cluding three 3-point baskets. Detlef Schrempf added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Chuck Person 19 points. 
The Hawks never trailed afiler Kenny Smith's short basket in the lane broke an 82-82 tie with 
8:48 to play. But the Hawks had to hold on right to the final buzzer, at which Miller missed a 3-point attempt from the right corner. 
Heat 113, Kings 92 

Kevin Edwards scored 16 first-quarter points, only two fewer than the Sacramento team. as Miami opened a big early lead and never trailed. 
Edwards, who finished with 32 points and sat out the final 15 minutes, hit 13 of 17 shots and six of six free throws. The victory was only the third in 19 games for the Heat. 
The Kings played without leading scorer Wayman Tisdale, who missed his second consecutive game with the flu. Sacramento has lost four in a row and 13 of its last 15 games. The Kings are winless (0-9) on the road since Jan. 27, and 3-23 as a visitor this sea­son. 
players' union. 

Normally, March 1 marks the Athletics host to the San Fran­opening of the exhibition sea-cisco Giants in Phoenix at night son. Players are anxious to get in a rematch of the 1989 World going. Snowbirds from the Series opponents for the benefit 
north get baseball fever only of earthquake victims. games will temper. 
This year ballparks housing In Florida, three scheduled 18 major league teams in openers were cancelled. They Florida and eight in Arizona were the Baltimore Orioles and are off limits to players. The the Chicago White Sox in Sara-owners have imposed a lockout sota, the University of Georgia until a new collective bargain-and the Atlanta Braves at West ing agreement is reached. Palm BHach, and Edison College 
versus the Texas Rangers at 

With no settlement in sight, Fort Myers. clubs are cancelling games at least through March 10. Other major league clubs had 
The exhibition season had planned to swing into the exhi­been scheduled to be bition season on Friday. 

~~~~~~V~Av~.v~v~v~~~~~~#~~~ 
JORGE 

Muchas Felicidades En Tus 21. 
Te Queremos Mucha! 
Papi, Mami, Tania, Maria E. 


... 
Thursday, March 1, 1990 

ND men's swim team travels to Eastern ICs 
the season support that this 
squad is the strongest men's Sports Writer team we have put together in 
my five years at Notre Dame," 
After a long break between Welsh said. competitions and three weeks The Irish will attempt to of intense training, the Notre move up in the standings from Dame men's swim team travels last year's sixth place finish in to Cleveland State to take part the competition. in this weekend's Eastern In­"We have three goals in this tercollegiate Swimming and championship," said Welsh. Diving Championships. "We want to swim lifetime best 
The field for the men will be times, set new university slightly bigger than last week's records, and advance our team field for the women's team, position." which returned to campus with The squad will not be looking the championship. Twelve to a select few to lead them to teams begin the three-day com­victory. The depth the team has petition today, including some shown throughout the season that will present competitive has been the key to their much­challenges to the Irish. improved 16-2 record. 
Southern Illinois will be rac­"How we do as a team de­ing in the Easterns for the first pends on how all 19 men do," time, but are the favorite going noted Welsh. in. Throughout the year, SIU The men's dramatic im­has been ranked in the top 20 provement this season allowed nationally. them to profit from surprising 
Western Kentucky is another their opponents. They were not strong team in the meet. Three expected to win the National years ago, when Notre Dame Catholic Championships in De­hosted the Midwestern Inde­cember, as they did, but now pendent Championships, West­that the dual meet season has ern Kentucky took the title. ended, opponents have become 
Other talented teams include wary. West Virginia, last year's "The element of surprise is Eastern champions, and Notre over," Welsh said. "Other teams Dame's perennial rival, St. have recognized our good sea­Bonaventure, will also be com­son." peting in the meet they won in After the success they have 1988. enjoyed this year, and the 
"We are headed for a very women's recent victory in the competitive field," acknowl­Easterns in Baltimore, the men edged Irish head coach Tim have the benefits of all these Welsh. "Our challenge is to put past contests. forth the fastest times we can "Each meet has made us at the right time, and the right more confident, from our dual time is now." meets to the championships," 
Welsh brings a 19-member Welsh said. "Our confidence squad to Cleveland, one in and hopes are high, and we are which he has great confidence. excited to go to Cleveland and 
"Our record and times over compete." 
By JANICE ARCHER 
+American Red Cross 
Frczshmcznl St. HCldwig's Gong Showl 
Help support our class service 
projcrct by volunteering for thcr 
following positions: 
-Assistant Director 
-Stager Manangcrr 
-Tcrchnical Assistant (Ughts & Sound) 
-Publicity Manager 
-Crew members for thcrscr positions 
No czxpczricznccz nczcczssaryl This is a grczat opportunity to hczlp ootl Call )cznny X4890 or Lynn X4516 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~ 
CAMPUS32 TEAM 

SOCCER TOURNAMENT 
1) FIRST 32 TEAMS SUBMITTED TO THE NV A OFFICE WITH $10 ENTRY FEE ONLY 
2) OPEN TO STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
3) VARSITY PLAYERS ARE NOT ELIGIBLE 
4) INSURANCE FORMS MUST BE FILLED our 
5) DOUBLE ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT 
6) PLAy TO START MARCH 31 (DEPENDING ON THE IIEATHER) 
IDEADLINE -MARCH 7 I 

RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -North However, he added, "There Carolina State coach Jim Val­was no information to lead me vano and two former players to believe there was any point­denied allegations Wednesday shaving." of point-shaving in a basketball That's what Valvano and game against Tampa, a some former players are say­smaller, unranked school, in ing, too. 1986. "I was never aware of any­
The Greensboro News & thing going on with point-shav­Record, quoting unnamed ing," Vinny Del Negro, now a sources, reported that a State guard with the Sacramento Bureau of Investigation probe Kings, said in a telephone in­centered on a Dec. 27, 1986, terview from Miami. "I just game between then 12th­think we had a bad game." ranked N.C. State and the Divi­"I don't know anything," said sion II school. The Wolfpack Bennie Bolton, another member lost, 67-62. of the '86 team, reached at his 
William Dowdy, the SBI's home in Washington. chief investigator, acknowl­"I heard about it, yeah," said edged that the agency was in­Bolton, who has been playing in vestigating the N.C. State bas­Australia. "It was just a case of ketball program -already on coming in against a hungry two years' probation for NCAA team and we didn't play up to violations -and that part of our capabilities." the probe would include the Valvano, who missed the point-shaving allegations. game at Tampa due to illness, 
John P. O'Malley 

Sales Representative 

New Memberships or Transfers 
c'tii'cico MOTOR CLUB  Auto & Property Insurance AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA  
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545  
219/277-5790  RES.:  219/288-0980  
Please ask for John O'MIIIIe  .  

what's happening at 7~~~ 4') 
lndie Industrial Innovative •' Dance Music 

the 10-2 
HOUSE PARTY 


said he never suspected anyone of trying to throw the game. 
"If I had, I would have re­ported it," he said. "But I never reported it because I never had a reason to." 
"I don't know what to make of it," said Tampa coach Richard Schmidt, whose 1986­87 team finished 26-6. "If there was point-shaving going on, why would it be against us? There wasn't even a line on the game, at least not to my knowl­edge." 
Tampa guard Johnny Jones, who scored a game-high 30 points that night, also doesn't believe point-shaving figured in the game's final outcome. 
"I don't buy it, any of it," said Jones, now living in Sara­sota, Fla. "It just makes me mad. Why won't they admit that we just played a better game and leave it at that? It's not fair to the school or to the community that was there that night and shared the moment with us. It's just a bunch of ex­cuses." 
In his book "Personal Fouls," about N.C. State basketball, author Peter Golenbock had a different explanation for the loss to Tampa. 
He said the team was demor­alized by Valvano's absence ­his first in 20 years of coaching -and upset at having no Christmas break. He also said the players were dismayed by conflicting instructions from two assistant coaches. 
But Del Negro said that, too, was untrue. 
"Coach Valvano had a bad case of the flu," he said. "They (Tampa) were very emotional and we just didn't perform the way that we should have." 
And Bolton said: "I don't now how you can substantiate that as true. I know when I go out to play, 1 play to win. I can at­tribute that to the other players as well." 
Del Negro said he was sorry to hear that former Wolfpack player Charles Shackleford admitted accepting $65,000 from two men while he played for the school. 
"Coach Valvano couldn't be a babysitter 24 hours a day," he said. "It's unfortunate that the school is getting a bad reputa­tion because of some incidents with some players." 
-

---------------------...------_.-------~----~--________......_ 
page 18 

ND wrestlers top lllini; up dual record to 7-8 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team defeated Illinois 20-16 on the road Wednesday to close out its regular season with a dual match record of 7-8. 

Freshman Steve King pinned his opponent 1:28 into the 190­pound match to lead the Irish. Sophomore 126-_pounder Marcus Gowens recorded a technical fall 6:13 into his match, leading 22-7 before the 15-point margin automatically stopped the contest. 
Senior Andy Radenbaugh won the 118-pound match by a score of 10-3, junior 158­pounder Todd Tomazic won 9-3 and junior 167-pounder Mark 
Oklahoma doing its part to keep No.1 in the Big Eight 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP)-Okla­
homa, it seems, is trying to 
make sure the nation's No. 1 
team remains in the Big Eight 
Conference. 
Last week, Missouri of the 
Big Eight held the top spot. But 
Oklahoma beat the Tigers on 
Sunday, knocking them to No. 3 
and allowing conference rival 
Kansas to become No. 1 for the 
third time this season. 
That victory also bumped the 
Sooners from lOth into a tie 
for fifth, giving the Big Eight 
three of the nation's top five 
teams. On Tuesday, Oklahoma 
pounded the nation's new No. 1 
team, 100-78, ending its home 
schedule at 16-0 and increasing 
its winning streak at Lloyd No-

MCC places two on probation 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A woman's basketball player from Evansville and another from Loyola of Illinois have been placed on probation for the remainder of the 1989-90 season, the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference announced Wednesday. 
The players were placed on probation for an incident that occurred during a game. be­tween the two schools on Feb. 
24. Both players were ejected from the game for fighting, MCC Commissioner Tucker DiEdwardo said. 
Any further incidents involv­ing the two players may result in a suspension of one or more games, he said. 
DiEdwardo said the players' names would not be released. 

Fencers 
continued from page 20 
well be a rematch of the 
upcoming NCAA finals. I'd have 

to say that both teams are 
equal in strength." 
The same squad, including 
Lynn Kadri and Tara Kelly, will 
travel with the men's fecning 
team this weekend to the Great 
Lakes Championships in 
Appleton, WI. 
We need you. 
t. 
~American Heart ~Association 

-
WE'RE RGHlli'G Frn 'O.JRUFE 
Gerardi won 10-8 in his bracket. 
Illinois (3-9) was the sixth school from the Big Ten, generally considered the top wrestling conference in the nation, to face the Irish this season. In dual meets with Big Ten teams, Notre Dame defeated Ohio State and Illinois, but lost to Michigan State, Indiana, Purdue and Iowa. 
Notre Dame next competes in the NCAA Western Regionals at Charleston, Ill., on March 10. Those indiduals who qualify at Regionals will advance to the NCAA Championships, scheduled for March 22-24 at College Park, Md. 

ble Arena to 45 games. 
A victory Saturday at Okla­homa State could propel the Sooners to the top of the poll heading into next week's con­ference tournament. The ramifications of a big showing in this big stretch were clear to the Sooners. 
"We were really fired up playing the number ones be­cause we were number five, and we could get to be one of the top four teams and than a number-one seed," William Davis, who scored 22 points against Kansas, said. 
Oklahoma coach Billy Tubbs said his team's strong perfor­mances were due more to the fact they were important con-
American Red Cross +J 

Photography Department 
is now taking applications for the following Assistant Photo Editor positions: 
Sports, Features, and Saint Mary's 
Submit a one-page personal statement to The Observer office by March 9. For more information, contact Eric Bailey at 239-5323 

ference games. 
"There's no mystique with playing No. 1 when it's Missouri or Kansas because we play 'em all the time," he said. "That's the most important thing. The rivalry and the inter-conference thing hits you more than No. 1, but this made it special, I'd have to say that." 
In the Kansas game, the Sooners went to the press from the outset -something they haven't done of late -and Kansas wound up committing a season-high 26 turnovers. 
During one stretch in the first half, when Oklahoma widened its lead from 18-13 to 25-15, Kansas turned the ball over on 10 of 12 possessions. The Sooners eventually opened a 41-17 lead before tiring in ,,he 
final five minutes of the half. 
"We couldn't get shots we needed and they forced us into turnovers," Kansas guard Kevin Pritchard said. "When you do that, ypur offense comes ofT your defense, and that's. a big part of their game." 
Kansas coach Roy Williams saw it this way: 
"I think they just got after us 
a little harder than we were 
ready to be gotten after," he 
said. "They just got after our tails and we didn't do a good job of taking care of the bas­ketball." 

"The last home game for se­niors is usually a very emo­tional time," Williams said. "But they played very well. It wasn't just emotion out there. They executed, did the things they wanted to do and made us look a little silly at times." 
Oklahoma is 22-4 overall and 10-3 in the Big Eight, while Kansas is 27-3 and 10-3 after losing to someone other than Mssouri. Each of those Mis­souri losses knocked the Jay­hawks from the No. 1 spot. 
''KIMBO" 
has been waiting 

for today! 
Happy Birthday! 


When you go to that all important job interview do you want copies of your resume or do you want originals? 
Adworks 
gives you originals, not copies. 
Each resume we print 1or you is an original. Do you really want your future employer to see acopy of your resume or an original? You decide. 
Adworks • 301 Lafortune • (219) ADW-ORKS 
Thursday, March 1, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 

ACROSS 31 Bereft, in times 54 Oater of yore 56 River in 
1 "Off the Court" 
Thursday 32 Torment Germany
author 34 Eggs, to Cato 57 Actress Massey 5 Steer 

6:30 p.m. University Counseling Center Workshop con­35 Sp. women 58 Bakery
10 Stagehand 

tinues: 'Career/Major Decision Making.' Room 300 Uni­36 Papal cape specialist
14 Condo cousin

versity Counseling Center. 37 Seed cov\'!ring 59 Look sharply 
15 Plant of the goosefoot family 38 Well-known diet. 60 Rob-to pay 
8:10 p.m. Theater: "The Importance of Being Earnest," 39 Undercoats a Paul
16 Pool on a liner by Oscar Wilde. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Depart­surface 61 Used frugally, 
17 Savvy ment of Communication and Theater. 40 H.S.test 
with"out"

19 Literary conflict 41 Property
20 Chore for a 

7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion/Follow Up: "What do the is­farmer 43 Golf events 
DOWN 

sues in Eastern Europe mean to students as members of 21 Harbinger 44 Serves perfectly the ND community, and as citizens of a nation?"Main 23 Gladden 45 Earthy deposits 1 Suffer sorely Purpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. 24 Gdansk native 47 Kind of puzzle 2Anon 
3 Bargain 25 London suburb 50 Bent shrewdly

Friday 27 Dies 53 Emend 4 Greek letters 5 Assume as fact
Noon Humanities Colloquium: "Cicero on the Tasks and 
6 Girl of song

Modes of Philosophy," Walter Nicgorski, Program of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Director Fritz 

Liberal Studies. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by Commit­tee on Critical and Continental Thought. 
8 Mil. training program 9"-Mouth,"
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Joyce Cary 

Friday 
novel 25 Journalist 32 Lash 46 Close by, 
10 Glowers

Noon Lecture: "Europe: A Continent in Turmoil," Hon. 
Stewart or 33 The Ram of the poetically
-=-=+=+=,_ ~,:.r::.+=-1 11 Capital of Latvia 
Shirley Williams, Harvard University. Annenberg Joseph zodiac 47 General­
12Matinee­
37 As American as
Auditorium. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Commit­26 Kitchen gadget purpose car
~,...r,.;+=-t 13 Golden or tee for European Studies. Walden 27 London buggies 48 Not in use 
39 Twelve-point 49 Taunt
type

ale-whisky drink so Cheating aid 
22 Site of the first 42 Kind of mind or MENUS Olympic games work
29--les-Bains, 51 Actress Summer 
-:-+::;:+.:-F.-1 24 Rem brandt French spa 43 Church calendar 52 Word with arm or
Notre Dame stick
-,U.S. 30 Seasoned 45 Intervening, in painter seamen law 55 Corrida cry 
BBQ Chix Drumstick & Rib Platter Fried Clams Hot Dogs on a Roll Frito Misto 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


to.m.R 1'111 \X)~£. Wt>.KI-\I~G 1"'4 I 1-\t'L\. TH.L ME W"t>.TlWt. B:X>'¥:. Wf>S P.Q:)JT1 to.~~ l'lL 
Till. /liM 'tt""-T n.\t. 1\1 SI\~S 'N£1<£ t>.BO\JT! st£ I v.£'RE. 
00\1'-1~ T'NIC.t. t>S 1'1\l~ \~ 1\\t. 
S~M£ M"OO~T 0~ 1\to\£ ! 

"Coast, Dad, coast!" 
l~h)WUbYHL~Maura Stanton 
° Tonight ~ ~ ~ Cries of Swimmers · lJ®(QJOO~O~ ~Qilai)[]~®® ~ ~ Joseph Coulson ~ 
~ ~o~\-,ot'lore Lile,.a Mel Gibson ~ 
~ ~~ ~ A Measured Silence Michelle Pleiffer ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Kurt RusseD ~ ~ rresHval ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Hesburgh Library Auditorium L• Cushing Auditorium ~ 
~ 8:00 and 10:15 ~ 
~ 8:30 P.M. ~· ~ 
~ ~ 
~~··.,a 

Sports
page 20 

Dayton flies by Irish 97-79 
Second-half domination propels Flyers to win 
By GREG GUFFEY son, "We needed to come out souri and that puts you back in Assistant Sports Editor with confidence and we didn't. the hunt," Notre Dame coach This is the first time the seniors Digger Phelps said. "That's the 
DAYTON -The Notre Dame have lost to Dayton. The crowd thing about our schedule this men's basketball team has suf­was a big factor as far as help­year. It's l!oofv enough where fered setbacks on the road all ing them when they were press­you're never out of it." season, but Wednesday's loss ing us." It was the biggest margin of at Dayton may have been the · The Flyers used a full-court victory in the series for Dayton, biggest and the toughest. press, pressure defense and which improved to 17-9 and 
The Flyers upset the Irish 97-blistering shooting in winning greatly increased its post-sea­79 Wednesday night before a their first game against the son chances. sold-out UD Arena crowd of Irish in their last nine tries. Senior point guard Negele 13,511. That was the identical If Notre Dame wasn't on the Knight led the Flyers with a score Notre Dame beat the Fly­NCAA Tournament fence before game-high 28 points and 10 as­ers by in late January at the Wednesday's game with Day­sists. Forward Anthony Corbitt Joyce ACC. ton, it was straddling, holding added 15 points, guard Ray 
"Personally to come here and and clinging to it afterward. Springer 13 and Norm Grevey get blown out in your backyard Now Notre Dame will need to 11. hurts," said Cincinnati native win at least two-and maybe all Keith Robinson tied a career­and Irish eo-captain Joe three-of its remaining games high with 26 points for the Fredrick, who was held to six to gain an invitation to the Irish. He was joined in double points on 3-of-1 0 shooting. tourney. The first test will come figures by LaPhonso Ellis with "More importantly for the team against Missouri Saturday in 17 points and Monty Williams we needed to get our 15th win the JACC. and we didn't get it." "All you have to do is get a see FLYEAS/ pa9e 16 
Said Irish center Keith Robin-win against a team like Mis­
·fllEDRl

Armetta upsets Cane in Bengals 
clearly the crowd favorite. corner swinging and, after
By KEN TYSIAC 

"It was 100 percent mental driving Teehan against the 
Sports Writer 
preparation," said Armetta. ropes to force a standing eight 
3

The semifinal round of the "(Cane) is a great fighter. count, Balint corraled him into 60th Bengal Bouts turned sour Knowing that he's a lefty and the gold corner for the final for defending 154-pound he likes to come with the one­blows. 
champion David "Sugar" Cane two jab, I cut the ring off from Balint will have his hands full last night at the Joyce ACC as him and tried to stay away in the finals, however, as he will he was upset in a split decision from his tremendous speed and face Mike Trainor, who scored by sophomore Jody Armetta. power." a unanimous decision over 
"It was most surprising," Sophomore Colin Mullaney Garth Behrje by scoring re­
said boxing coach Sean beat John Bastian in a unani­peated rights to Behrje's face. McCormick. "You've got to give mous decision in the other 154-A 134-pound fight between Jody credit. David is as good a pound bout and will face sophomore Derek Bartlett and 
fighter as we've ever had here, Armetta in the finals Friday freshman Mo Elevado was the and Jody gave David a good night. highlight of the lighter weight fight." Cane's fellow co-captain Chris divisions. At the end of a rather 
It was a bout that any boxing Balint fared much better in his nondescript first round Elevado purist would love. Armetta and 16 7 -pound fight against Bren­started showing off by dancing Cane boxed carefully and skill­dan Teehan. He finished the around in front of Bartlet1. fully throughout a very even shortest fight of the night when Bartlett apparently was not match. When the scorecards the referee figured Teehan had amused. He came out swinging were collected, Armetta was taken enough abuse at the 1:07 in the second round, scoring The Observer I John Cluver ahead by a smidgeon over the mark of the first round. LaPhonso Ellis held his own, but the Notre Dame men's basketball 
see BENGALS I page 14

hometown hero Cane, who was Balint simply came out of his team didn't, as the Flyers beat thH Irish Wednesday in Dayton. 
ND women's hoops do'"'" to seven 
By CHRIS COONEY ''I'm really worried about this. McGraw. "We played a lot of Sports Writer game," said McGraw, even zone last time, and we'll have to though Notre Dame decisivel} do that again to stay out of 
Head coach Muffet McGraw won the last matchup, 85-60 foul trouble." will be going for her third­on Jan. 23. "With Sara gone, all While it may appear that the straight 20-win season, and we need is someone to get into Irish should have no problem Karen Robinson has a chance foul trouble." soundly defeating the 9-14 Fly­of scoring her 1000th career McGraw is referring to in­ers, McGraw explained that point, but the Notre llame jured guard Sara Liebscher, Dayton has been surging re­women's basketball team faces who hurt her ankle in Monday's. cently and is seeking a bid to more pressing concerns when contest against Xavier. The the MCC Tournament with a they host tonight's 7:30 game Irish will miss Liebscher's 9.6 vengeance. against Dayton. points and 5.6 rebounds per "Last time we played them, 
With the roster reduc1'd to game. In addition, with only we scored the first eight points seven healthy players, the Irish seven people, Notre Dame may and really got out of the block will confront an inspired Flyer have to adjust its game in order well," McGraw said. "They've squad that needs this victory to conserve its players. played very well since then and earn a berth in the MCC Tour­"We'll probably play a little 
see SEVEN I page 14 

nament. more conservatively," predicteri 
Fencers tip Wayne St. on touches 
Senior captain Anne Barreda battle against the Tartars. And
By CHRIS RLLIO 
Sports Writer began the competition in although sophomore Rachel unusual fashion, dropping her Haugh finished the day 1-3, her first two bouts before coming victory was an inspiring and 
The Notre Dame women's back to ice the victory in the critical one in which she battled fencing squad took care of meet's last match-up. back from a 4-1 deficit to win some unfinished business "She had a lot of pressure on by a 5-4 count. yesterday afternoon as they her, and was quite tense," said Senior Kristin Kralicek used closed out the regular season women's head coach Yves a defensive approach to split with a narrow come-from­Auriol, who saw the women's her four bouts on the day. while behind victory over midwestern unbe&ten streak snapped last sophomore Heidi Piper had the rival Wayne State. week~nd against Farleigh­best record for the Irish women 
The 16-match dual meet Dickinson. "But she changed on the day, going 3-1 in ended with the score knott1'd at her fencing style to make the employing an aggressive style. 8-8 after the Irish women won adjustment. She really fought "That was probably the finest four of the last six bouts. In her last bout as a leader." competition we've seen all the final tally, the Irish The Irish were still looking year," said Wayne State head


Margaret Nowlin is one of seven players left on the Notre Dame emerged victorious based on for someone to claim that coach Gil Pezza. "It could very women's basketball team who will face Dayton tonight at the Joyce their 64-54 margin in total elusive fourth spot in the AC:C:. touches. starting lineup going into the see FENCERS/ page 18 






