~--------------------------------~--------------------------~------------------------------------------­

By MONICA Y ANT 
Assistant News Editor 
Noting that "tlw notion of pariPtals is ambiguous both in intPnt and nwthod." a Student (;owrnnwnt mport on sexuality rPrornnwnds that tlw University nitlwr arknowledgn that pre­venting sexual n~lations is the goal of pariPtals, or modify visitation hours and disci­plinary artion. 
Tlw 19H1J-90 HPport to tlw Board of Trustees also included rPeomnwndations on sexual ethics. ro-rnsidnntiality. sexual harassnwnt and rape, contra­reptiV!~s and AIDS. and homo­sexuality. 
With regards to parietals, the 
..
... 
fl.l!', 
'. 
• The process I page 4 
Committee on sexuality reeom­nwnds the following: 
•That the university "acknowledge, if it is indeed the rase, that the prevention of sexual relations between stu­dmlls is the goal of the limit parietal visitation regulation." 
If thn above was not the case, the report reeommends: 
• 
Modifying visitation hours to the following: 9 a.m. every morning, ending at 2 a.m. on weeknights and 3 a.m. on Fri­day and Saturday nights. 

• 
Moderation of the present disciplinary aetion to: a warn­ing for first violation of pari­etal visitation policy; temporary 


"'""" 
\t 
.;# 
Student Government Report on: >\ 
Q''1~~~ 
suspension from the dormitory after second violation; dis­missal from the dorm after third offense. 
• Allowing each residenee hall to vote on the extension of quiet hours. 
The recommendations sur­rounding parietals were based on research on the intent and consequences of the policy, a student survey on sexuality, and comparative studies of 
"\h* f' 
APPhoto 
A young Soviet couple, left, sporting the latest in Western fashion, and a couple in more rustic attire pose for photos before a giant mural of Marx, Engels, and Lenin in Red Square Monday. The mural was put on display in preparation for May Day celebrations. 
other peer institutions' visita­tion policies. In the 1990 student survey, to 
which 705 of 2000 SIJI(IPntc r<L sponded. 79 pereent said that Notre Dame does not provide a healthy environment for inter­action with the opposite sex, 
75.7 percent of those listing parietals as a "major problem­causing area." 
Hesponding to the area of co­residentiality, the report states, "Both the Committee and the 1990 Student Government sur­vey consider co-residentiality the most effective way of im­proving the quality of male-fe­male relations." According to the survey, 76.6 percent of those who considered relations at ND unhealthy cited single­sex dorms as one of the causes. 
In light of two rnports on co­residentiality made within tlw past two years. tlw Comrnittne reeomrnends the following: 
• lmpl1~rnenting eo-residen­tiality as quickly as possible at the University. 
• "Not implementing parietals in a eo-residential situation be­cause the aim or such is not to live next to or above members of the opposite sex. but to in­teract with them." 
All aspeets of the sexuality report were difficult to ad­drnss, Committee Chair .Juli1~ Shadd said, because of the 
see REPORT/ page 6 
Nations celebrate an uncommon May Day 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) ­Eastern Europe ignored vio­lence elsewhere and quietly cel­ebrated its freedom from decades of stagnant Communist ritual on May Day, substituting musie fests and pienics for the proletarian parades of the past. 
Turbulence marked May Day demonstrations in South Ko­rea, West Berlin, Mexico, Turkey and the Philippines, however. 
And in Moscow, a brief burst of the popular rage that has swept hard-line Communists from power aeross Eastern Eu­rope erupted in Bed Square Tuesday, where the traditional parade was open to all for the first time in decades. 
Taunting Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and other top leaders with cries of "Shame!" demonstrators. waved Lithuanian nags and banners bearing fierce anti­Kremlin slogans. 
With their Stalinist leaders already overthrown, thanks in part to Gorbachev's reforms, East Europeans rejoiced more peacefully, marking May Day as they wished. 
In Leipzig, East Germany, however. leftist youths brawled with young nco-Nazis in the market square, the government news agency ADN report1~d. 
West Bnrlin suffered an an­nual surge of May Day violm1ce as bands of mostly leftist radi­cals hurled firebombs and roeks Tuesday night and poliee rnsponded with tear gas and truneheons. More than 50 peo­ple were arrested, poliee said. 
But the common traditions or Western and Eastern Europe also found symbolic expression in May Day celebrations in West Berlin as 60,000 Ger­mans, including thousands of East Berliners, came through 
see MAY DAY I page 6 
New construction forces change of parking lots 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
News Writer 
Parking facilities for both faculty and students will be changnd dtw to rww construc­tion on campus, according to Phil Johnson. assistant director of Snrurily. 
"Wn will bn eornpt~nsating for thn loss of space by providing it in anotht~r a rna," said Johnson. 
Hnsident student parking will bt~ locatnd in the D-2 and D-6 lots, whieh am scheduled to be expanded. 
"Until we know exactly how mtu·h additional space is ere­atnd in thn D-6 lot and until that lot is rt~surfaced, we won't know which residence halls will b1~ assigrwd thnn~." Johnson said. 
.Johnson speculated that Alumni, Dillon, and Sorin halls will all bn assigned to the D-2 Iol. 
Th11 D-1 lot will bncome fac­ulty parking due to the amount of spaee needed for construe­Lion equipment used for the new DeBartolo quad. which once was ust~d forfaculty park­ing. aceording to Johnson. 
Off-campus student parking will be available next term in the areas south and southeast of the stadium. Graduate stu­dents will have the C-2 lot available at the intersection of Bulla and Juniper roads, ac­eording to Johnson. 
"Thes1~ decisions were made by a eommittee that met during the last seven months to review Notre Dame parking with stu­dent representatives," said Johnson. 
Jim Schilder, a senior who is a student representative to the committee said, "The University committee needs positive input from all members of the com­munity to find viable options." 
Schilder said the reason for the division of the lots is so that all of the traffic of people and cars will not be concen­trated in one area. 
Johnson said he was certain that Walsh, Badin, Howard, Lyons, and Carroll halls will all park in the D-6 lot. Depending on how space settles out, Pang­born, Morrissey, and Fisher halls will be fit into either the D-2 or D-6 lots. 
"We recognize that we are asking students to walk to the 
see PARKING I page 4 -, 


-----------~--­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1990 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Ordination of women slowed by weak logic 
The two most com­monly used argu­ments presented in defense of the Catholic Church re­garding women in the priesthood are that of tradition and the im­portance of resem­

Melissa
blance to Christ. 
McAndrews
While it is true that 
Assistant SMC Editor 
tradition holds an important place in Catholicism, I feel that excluding women on those grounds is wrong. 
To say that tradition vindicates something is a weak argument. Similar arguments would then vindicate slavery, oppression of the poor, and Italian popes. In addition, historical evidence shows that this is not how things have always been. At the time of Christ, the role closest to that of church priests was performed by both men and women. Priests as we know them were not instituted by Christ. (He was not a sexist.) While the priesthood is a worthwhile institu­tion, there is no reason for its being exclu­sively male. 
The second argument for maleness is that of resemblance. For a priest to perform his function he must physically resemble Christ. I have been to the Middle East where Jesus was born and the people there do not physi­cally resemble Aryans or Orientals. Just as the church has no problem ordaining these non-resemblers so should it be for women. 
Perhaps one can argue that it is in the phallus that one resembles Christ. To this ridiculous position I offer a ridiculous counter. Imagine that a priest, Fr. Smith, is in the hospital for something like a tonsil­lectomy and by some mistake he is rolled into the wrong operating room where they are expecting Mr. Jones for a sex change. Jones has his tonsils out, but can Fr. Smith still perform his priestly functions? 
If this scenario seems unlikely, perhaps 
Fr. Smith was similarly maimed in a car ac­
cident. What if this accident occurred one 
week prior to Smith's ordination? Now a 
"non-resembler," can Smith still be or­
dained? 
Perhaps one might argue that it is not the 
phallus but something else that is required 
to properly resemble Christ-possibly 
chromosomes? I doubt that the Church 
would refuse to ordain a man simply be­
cause he had Klinefelters Syndrome or such. 
More than once I have heard our parish priest proclaim the Church's desperate need for more priests. Why then is the Church shutting out a most valuable source? I feel that the church's position is much like that of the whites in South Africa. My opinion is that the whites there know perfectly well that they are wrong, yet are unwilling to re­linquish their valuable monopoly of power. The position of the male dominated Church is similar. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Spor1s  News  Viewpoint  
Chris Cooney  Paul Pearson  Lisa Eaton  
Mike Owen  
Production  Systems  
Kristin Costello  Accent  Mark Sloan  
Chris Labaree  Paige A. Smoron  Dan Towers  
Barbara Bryn  
Sarah Rose Fiske  
Scoreboard  Circulation  
Greg Guffey  Ad Design  Bill O'Rourke  
Quinn Satepauhoodle  Matt Novak  
Joy Harris  
Amy Eckert  
Lisa Gunsorek  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, May 2. Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
WARM
COLD STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
h
® © rn ~ m EZJ EZ3 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST 
A memorial mass for Robert Steve D0 Ian will be today at 1 p.m. in the Architecture Building lobby. 
Refrigerator Rental Returns will be at Stepan Courts on Friday May 5th from 2-5 p.m. Refrigerators must be clean and defrosted for deposits to be returned. Call SUB at 239-7668 with any questions. 
WORLD 
President Carlos Menem of the Peronist party of Buenos Aires, which for decades advocated a blend of capitalism and socialism, said Tuesday that capi­talism is the only solution to Argentina's economic prob­lems. His comments came as 40,000 May Day demonstra­tors rallied and cheers leftist leaders who denounced Menem's recent bills to restrict the right to strike and to regulate employment. In opening a session of Congress, Menem said: "We hope to construct capitalism that is humanized. Decent. Efficient. Competitive." 
NATIONAL 
president Bush paid 
Gunfire killed two Mohawk Indians at tnbute Tuesday night to Korean War the St. Regis Indian Heservation on Tuesday, and police veterans, saying their fight "laid the later closed off the reservation, torn by a 9-month-old foundation for the march of democracy" dispute over casino gambling. Troopers escorted investi­around the world today. Bush delivered gators of the Quebec Provincial Force through the New the speech before a black-tie audience of York section of the reservation Tuesday night to reach 550 at a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising din­the scene of the shootings, which occurred early Tuesday. ner for the Korean War Veterans Memo­State police said they were entering the reservation as a rial."It was a war in which we peacekeeping force. One of the victims, Matthew Pyke, 22, 
turned the tide against communism for the first time, in a victory regrettably sometimes ignored by history," Bush said of the conflict that claimed 54,246 American lives. 
INDIANA 
State regulators in Indianapolis are investigating whether Indiana Bell Telephone Co. earned millions of dollars more than was authorized last year. 
Hobert Glazier, utilities director for the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, says the company might have earned $14.4 million too much. "The investigation is not concluded. We don't have a final figure," Glazier said Monday. 
Hoosiers reported 2,662 cases of elderly abuse in 1988, but the state experienced an estimated 133,145 cases, according to the House Select Committee on Aging subcommittee on health and long-term care. The number of to­tal cases includes estimates by the state of the number of unreported cases. It also may be influ­enced by a subcommittee estimate based on the national average ratio of reported to unreported elder abuse cases. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for May 1, 1990 

{} 0.73 S&P Composite 332.25 {} 1.45 Dow Jones Industrials 2,668.92 {}12.16 
Precious Metals Gold {!r $2.60 to $371.40 I oz. 
Silver{} 1.5¢ to $4.932 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Irish Guard will be holding tryouts for next year's season. Those who missed the organizational meeting should call Mike Norman at 283-3508. 
All juniors planning to take on-campus interviews at the Career and Placement Services office during their senior year are reminded to turn in two copies of their re­sume before leaving campus this spring. 
.The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights said Tuesday that 68 legal professionals were murdered worldwide in 1989 and at least 209 others were tortured. detained or harassed because they advoeated justice. "The lawyers and judges with whom this report is concerned stand as symbols of the struggle for justice and human rights," said committee Chairman Marvin Frankel. The report chronicled abuses against lawyers, judges, law students and law professors in 48 countries. 
was shot while he was walking in the St. Hegis Mohawk Indian Heservation, in Snye, Quebec, during gun battle be­
tween rival factions. 
ALMANAC 
On May 2: e1n 1932: Jack Benny's first radio show made its debut on the NBC Blue network. e1n 1936: "Peter and the Wolf," a symphonic tale for children by Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev, had its world premiere in Moscow. e1n 1945: The Soviet Union announced the fall of Berlin, and the Allies announced the surrender of Nazi troops in Italy and parts of Austria. ePresident Spiro Agnew was disbarred by the Maryland Court of Appeals, effectively preventing him from practicing law anywhere in the United "tates. 
Yesterday's high: 69 Yesterday's low: 3 9 Nation's High: 102 
(Presidio, Tex.) Nation's Low: 5 
(Yellowstone, Wy.) 
Forecast: Partly sunny skies today. Highs will approach 60. Rain likely to develop Thursday. Highs in the low 60s. 
..---~~~---~--------~~---~-~-~-----~~~ ---~
-_,-----.... ~~-....... 

Spring painting 
TheObservertL.A. scott 
24-year-old artist Andy DeWeerd! works on a painting of the tulips near the Administration Building. Andy works for Conrad Schmidt, the firm that is renovatinQ the murals inside Sacred Heart Church. 

Now in our new location: 1724 N Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 272-0129 
Bicycles by: *Raleigh •Basso 
•Bridgestone 
•Miele 

•Eddy 
Merckx •DeRosa •Pinarello 


•Thule 
car racks 

•Giordana 
clothing 

• 
Diadora shoes 

•CIC 
heart rate monitors 

•Exceed 
sport nutritional supplements 


The area's ONLY certified FIT-KIT Technicians for roper fit and position
p 
•
NECA Frame Alignment 

•Customer 
Wheel Building 


•Certified Mechanics 
The Observer page 3 
Student supports Lithuania, while prof. finds it a mistake 
The Lithuanian drive for in­dependence from the Soviet Union is either an expression of 19th century nationalism or a reaffirmation of Lithuania's right to independence. 
Discriptions vary depending on who is being asked to ex-· plain the situation. 
George Brinkley, a govern­ment and international studies professor, tends to disagree with the path to independence that the Lithuanians have taken. Gailius Draugelis, a ju­nior at ND, supports Lithua­nian in its drive. 
Brinkley explained that the Soviet Constitution traditionally has appeared very demoeratic, guaranteeing a number or rights, including the right for a republic to secede. None of these rights had any substance, but "Mikhail Gorbachev has takon steps to give substance to these rights," Brinkley said. 
According to Brinkley, the Soviets have passed a law al­lowing secession that will be an amendment to the Soviet Con­stitution. Brinkley said that this law would require a national plebacite that must be passed by a 2/3 vote before secession would be allowed. 
It would also require a five-year period before the seces­sion of a republic becomes ef­fective and would require that minority rights in the republic be protected, he said. 
Brink ley stated that "Lithuanians made a mad dash 
at beating the changes." This undercuts their legitimacy and is a "foolish approach." 
The rush of Lithuania to get in before the rules could be adopted made this a confronta-
Brinkley also stated that the eleetion of Vytautas Landsber­gis as president of Lithuania also made the situation with Moscow more confrontational. He referred to Landsbergis' polities as "amateurish." 
It was a mistake to elect him over the leader of the Lithua­nian Communist Party, he said, but added that it would be a mistake if he were removed at this point. 
"The Lithuanian government was already a free, dl~moeratie government." said Brinkley. "Gorbachev made this possi­ble." 
According to Brinkley, the problem was that "in an explo­sive situation where you have free eleetions there is a ten­dency to go to an extreme." 
Brinkley believes that "the Baltic states ought to be inde­pendent, but independent in a broader European Union with 
participation from  the  Soviet  
Union."  
Brinkley  fears  that  the  

Lithuanian drive for indepen­dence, coupled with other prob­lems faced by Gorbaehev could spell trouble for the continua­tion of Perestroika and Glas­nost in the Soviet Union as a whole. 
"Lithuanians will have to moderate because of their eco­nomic position and the realiza­tion that politically, their own stance is destroying the chance for democracy, freedom and human rights that Gorbachev is giving them," Brinkley said. 
Draugelis, as a second-gener­ation Lithuanian, has a differ­ent perspective. Although he 
grew up in Rochester, N.Y., his first language is Lithuanian. Draugelis believes that Gor­bachev's plan for secession was 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti~on~a~l~s~it~u~a~ti~on~,~h~e~.~sa~i~d·~~~almost impos~ble to carry out. 
According to Draugelis, the Lithuanian move is not so much a secession as it is a reaffirma­tion of independence. lie said that the Soviets have admittf~d that the annexation of the Baltie Hepublics (which include Lithuania) was an illegal act, based on a secret treaty be­tween the Soviets and Nazi Germany. 
"On every moral ground and track, the Lithuanians have won the argument," he said. 
"The Lithuanians have shown that they will be friendly neigh­bors," he said. "I don't under­stand why Gorbachev would want to hold onto hostile occu­pied territory instead of having a frifmdly neighbor." 
Draugelis believes that Lithuania could create a viable economy if it were independent from the Soviet Union and it would still trade with tho Sovi­ets. In fact, an independent Lithuania could mint its own currency, trade on the world market, and become a "sourcn of hard currency for the Soviet Union," he said. 
An independent Lithuania would have to negotiate with the Soviet Union on many is­sues. Lithuanians would have to allow Soviet bases to remain, Draugelis said. 
He does not believe that Lithuania's lack of natural re­sources would cause them problems after independence. "If you replace the word Lithuania with Japan, you have a similar situation," Draugelis said, referring to Japan's eco­nomic success and lack of natu­ral resources. 
"The U.S. should be positive to Lithuanian independence and to Gorbachev," he said. 
Draugelis said that whether one believes this decision is correct or not, one must aecept the harsh realities that Lithua­nians have made this decision. 
Clothin2 & Usable Item Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 


Clothings, Furniture, Appliances, & Other Usable Items. 

ALL Residence Halls 
Monday, May 7 
Tuesday, May 15 
Monday, May 21 
~~ 
()ffi(]Of 
(N\IIIUS 
Campus Ministry, 239-5242
MNISTRY 
& 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society, 234-6000 

r---------------------------------~ 
HOLY CROSS PARISH 1520 Vassar Avenue South Bend, IN 46628 
2111233 21711 
MALE GRADUATE HOUS.ING I $170 permo 
Furnished sleeping rooms. Bed, dresser, desk, telephone hook-up, eating & cooking areas, & laundry facilities provided. 9 month lease 
n•II.II·II·II-11·11·11-11.11-L 
THE CONGREGATION OF I 
HOLYCROSS i
-
Through vision, work and prayer Holy Cross I­
-
priests and brothers have ~ven life to the I 
-
University of Notre Dame, enriching our world I
-
-
with timeless values, caring service. I
-
-
I 
Holy Cross also serves avariety of ministries: i schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to i the poor and others... i -
-
I
For information: 
-
-
I
Fr. John Conley, CSC ­
-
Vocation Director 
I
Box 541 
Notre Dame, IN 465561 
(219) 239-6385 = 
ADWORKSI 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
page 4 
Trustees Reports can bring major changes, Pasin says 
By MONICA Y ANT 
Assistant News Editor 
Through Student Government Reports to the Board of Trustees, student concerns and suggestions are presented to a group that has the ability to make significant changes at the University. 
Sometimes the reports, which are made three times each year, serve strictly in the informa­tional sense, said Rob Pasin, student body president. But in other cases. they can bring about major changes to the ND community. Pasin cited the ren­ovation of the LaFortune Student Center as the result of several Board of Trustees re­ports which repeatedly called for a student center on campus. 
Pasin said the topics for the reports chosen by the student body president and vice-presi­dent, may come from responses
r 
r to student government surveys, and are "always issues that are
I 
~ 
pertinent." The three reports to be presented at Thursday's meetings are on sexuality, fac­ulty/student relations, and the role of women at the University. 
At the Thursday meetings, a Board of Trustees committee in the area of the report will dis­cuss the issue with the student government committee. The chair of that Board committee will then present its recommen­dations to the Trustees at the Friday meeting, according to Father Thomas Blantz, a mem­ber of the Trustees' Committee on Student Affairs. 
But because the changes pro­posed in the reports are often "long term in their scope," the Board of Trustees does not necessarily act immediately upon every report or recom­mendation, Pasin said. He noted that sometimes parts of reports are implemented, while other times the information is 
held until a later date. 
The time factor involved in implementing report recom­mendations is "one of the frus­trating things," Pasin said. "The University is thinking of change in terms of five and ten years," he said, "and we're [student government] thinking next fall." 
American Heart ft Association ~ 
How to Make Money Without Sacrificing Your 
Face it. Even though the sun may be shining and the beach is calling your name, sooner or later you'll probably have to make some money for school. Wouldn't it be nice to work around your own schedule...to have the luxury of keeping a bigger piece of the summer to yourself? 
Personnel Pool Temporary Services believes in summer too! We can offer you long and short term assignments in your part of town ... positions to fit your type of skills-from clerical, word processing and data entry, to paralegaVlegal support and light industrial. Our 9 Chicagoland locations are here to make your summer fun and prosperous. 
We also offer great pay, student benefits, referral bonuses, and more! So.. .it's your call, make it today! 
~ (312) 781-9132 
~~ Pe~~~~ol. 
REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
IF YOU RENTED A REFRIGERATOR AT THE FALL MALL IT MUST BE RETURNED. 
WHEN: FRI MAY 4TH 2PM--5PM WHERE: STEPAN BASKETBALL COURTS 
The refrigerators MUST be CLEAN, DRY and DEFROSTED in order to receive your deposit. 
NO EXCEPTIONS 
Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
edge of campus and students have expressed concerns about safety," said Johnson. 
To alleviate this, Johnson suggested the use of campus services such as Safewalk and Security to help students. "Personal safety is of paramount importance," said Johnson. 
Johnson said he realized the inconvenience the new parking will cause but hoped the park­ing's proximity to' the new quad will be evident to those who are required to move. 
With help from the Physical Plant department, the expan­sion and relocation of parking will start after Commencement and will be completed before the Fall Semester begins, ac­~ording to _Johnson. 
FREE 
TANNING 
Attention Freshmen Sophomores and Juniors 
Earn.­while youlearn. 
Manpower is looking for students interested in earning great pay. We offer flexible hours. And valuable training and businBIIII experience. Plus free use of a personal computer. 
If you're a full-time student, Sophomore or above, with at least a B average and are computer familiar, Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of th IBM Pereonal System/2 on campus. 
Send resume to: 
Lynette Lottie 
Collegiate Rep Manpower Inc. 320 W. La Salle South Bend, Ind. 
46601 
~--.-~~~-----...--.---------.-------------------------------~-------------­
Wednesday, May 2, 1990 The Observer 
APPholo
May Day march . . 
A bov waves a flag as soldiers march during a May Day demonstration, organ1zed by M~scow­supporting communists opposed to Lithuania's secession from the U.S.S.R., Tuesda 111 V1ln1us. 
-~----­
pageS 
Israel concerned with 
U.S. policy, occupied lands, and hostages 

Reed is 'angry' since other hostages are still captives 
MALDEN, Mass. (;\I') -lix­hostage )."rank HtHHI said Tuesday he had been sf!parated from Terry Anderson and Thomas Sutlwrland about a year ago, and was surprised to find out tlwy had not bnen re­
leased.  according  to  Htwd's  
daughtN.  
"lin said  he had  been with  

them, hut that he hadn't St)en Terry /\ndt~rson or Mr. 
AUENTtcW· Sili>ENTS Mil IfACHEBS Porloc:t-"ni'I'PT/FT ....,..,..... U.S.A. T.. ID r..ily. tiondo~·-lhom 
San long ci-...a.. E...,.... o pr-l tmmed•• c:uh income, long """ reeid.ltlll tncome tuouW1 
odlool ywao. No--no-.­
otyow can-In--rThwodoy, 7 prn· M.niott Jiotll........ fft.· ..lor r.... Harmon. 
Sutherland for about a year," said Marilyn Langston, 33. "lie was disturbed that they weren't out. lie thought for sure they would have been released." 
Anderson. chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, was abducted on a Beirut street in 19S5. Sutherland, acting agriculture dean at American University of Beirut, was abducted later that year. 
Heed's wife, Fahima Heed, said her husband was "very, very angry" when he learned that Anderson and Sutherland were still hostages. Fahima, known as "Fifi," and Heed's 9­ycar-old son, Tarek, were re­united Tuesday with Heed in West Germany. 
In an interview from Wiesbaden with television sta­tion WHDII of Boston, Heed said of the reunion: "Nobody spoke a word, we just hugged each other. Then he started breaking up. He cried. lie broke down and cried." 
"We were there to cheer Frank. But Frank was cheering Tarek, trying to make him laugh, and we ended up laugh­ing, the three of us." 
Heed could not sit still and his concentration was erratic, she said. 
Pac & Ship 
specializing in UPS service 
We will be on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses for your 
convenience:  
Notre Dame Stepan Center May 8-11 1pm-5:30pm May 15-18 1pm-5:30pm  Saint Mary's LeMans Parking Lot May 8 ~ 11 1pm-5:30pm May 15-18 1pm-5:30pm  

10% OFF FOR STUDENTS!! 
or visit 277-7748 
open daily
115 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 
UPS on campus UPS on campus 
MAKE IT EASY ON YOURSELF SHIPPING AVAILABLE ON CAMPUS 
UPS SERVICE DAILY 
JEHUSALEM lAP) -Officials 
expressed concern Tuesday 
over Israel's growing friction 
with the United States, which 
stems from disagreements over 
Middle East peace policy, 
Jewish settlements in the occu­
pied lands and U.S. hostages in 
Lebanon. 
Heferring to the State 
Department's sharp critieism 
of Israel for rejecting U.S. pro­
posals for a Palestinian-Israeli 
dialoguf!, Foreign Minister 
Moshe Arens said, "It has to 
worry me, and it has to worry 
all or us." 
On Monday, the State Department aceused right-wing Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of missing an important oppor­tunity for peaee by refusing to agree to U.S. terms for talks with Palestinians in Cairo. 
The Shamir government re­jected the talks, saying they eould lead to backdoor negotia­tions with the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
Adding to the strain is Washington's pressure on Israel to stop building Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip and to free Shiite Moslem prisoners to help win the release or u.s. hostages in Lebanon. 
Israel has resisted both de­mands, and Shamir's caretaker government has even stepped up settlement construction in recent weeks. 
The Haaretz daily reported Tuesday that Shamir agreed to push plans to create settle-

RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF An opportunity, In dialogue with othere, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community end HIVIce. 
PLAN NOW FOR THE FALL! 
RETREAT 
Pac&Ship 9-5 Sat 10am-7

DATES:  September 7-9, 1990  
APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED:  jthrough May 41  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Office  
103 Hesburgh Ubrary  
239-7800  
COST:  $20.00  
UPS on campus  

ments approved by previous governments and listed 14 sites under consideration. Tlw U.S. has repeatedly said that settle­ments arn an obst.aele to peace. 
Prnsident Bush made an indi­rect appnal for a prisoner re­lease, saying he "certainly had no objection" if Israel made such a move as a goodwill ges­ture. 
But Shamir spokesman Avi Pazner said Israel had not re­ceived any rnquest for a pris­oner relnase and said the United States was "certainly not" pressuring Israel over the issue. 
lie strnssed that lsnwl was seeking the release of thrne Israeli servicemen held by radi­cal Shiitn Moslems in Lebanon. 
But Pazner and other officials gave no indication that Israel 
would  free  abducted  pro­ 
Iranian  Shiite  cleric  Sheik  
Abdul-Karim  Obeid  or  about  

:~00 Arabs, most Lebanese Shiites, held by an Israeli­backed militia in south Lebanon to encourage the release of U.S. hostages. 
Shamir is now trying to form a right-wing coalition govern­ment without the center-left Labor Party. Labor collapsed the joint Labor-Likud govern­ment in March when Shamir re­fused to endorsf! U.S. peace proposals. 
Arens, a close Shamir ally, said Tuesday that Shamir would stick to a peace initiativf! adopted by the Likud-Lahor coalition in May 191-18. 
"You will lind that in the pol­icy guidelines (of the nnw gov­ernment) it will be written that we haVI) to advance the peace program of May 191-18. And it will be advanced," Arens said in an interview with Israel televi­sion. 
The government peace pro­gram calls for Palestinian elec­tions and limited autonomy in the occupiod territories. 
Focus 
on 
America's 
Future 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executitre Suites 
f~\:.~~C\:. LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 11, O~~ O.e \~S\)~~ CALL 239-6714 . O~ ~~.1/c/t 
\ '\oo THE COUNTRY HARVESTER .s: 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 
we ship computers, W.P. & momtors 'l"Jt4o 
minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! 
1671 Riverside Drive @
Not an agent of UPS 

~ 
·-­
UPS on campus UPS on campus 
I 
r 
~ 
r 

------------------------------------------------------------------------~.--------­
The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
The report mentions anti-gay Sexual harassment extends
Report 
sentiment on eampus as being beyond the homosexual popula­responsible for the harassment tion at ND. Ranging from ver­
continued from page 1 
of students who have admitted bal insults to forced inter­committee members' religious their homosexuality. "This gen­course, sexual harassment and personal views. One issue eral homophobia and low­"reveals a fundamental lack of of particular difficulty was con­grade harassment creates a human interrelation between traceptives and AIDS. highly oppressive atmosphere the sexes," according to the re­
Fifty percent of the ND stu­that causes many homosexual port. Six percent of women dent body are sexually active, students to remain completely surveyed said they had been a according to the survey, and 47 closeted..." victim of date rape, while 29 percent of these students prac­The one group on campus percent admitted knowing a tice some form of birth control. that "could possibly alleviate date rape victim. The majority 
In addition, 70 percent of the such misconceptions about ho­of the victims did not report the students surveyed reported that mosexuality," Gays and Les­incident, according to the sur­contraceptives should be avail­bians at Notre Dame/Saint vey. 
able through University Health Mary's College {GLND/SMC), is Center. not recognized by the Univer­In light of the seriousness of 
Because of these results, as sity. This lack of organizational this issue on a campus and na­well as outside research, the status prohibits the group from tional level. the Committee Committee recommends the advertising or sponsoring lec­made the following recommen­following: tures. dations: 
• That ND upgrade the qual­Because, as the report found, ity of sexual education regard­the University recognizes other • The University should add 
APPhoto 
ing AIDS. groups whose missions seem to DuLae a "clear definition of
Damaged Church 
• That ND recognize the use "contrary to Catholicism," such sexual assault and a general 
A child watches an unexploded U.S. designed 155MM howitzer 
of condoms as a means of dis­as the Baptist Student Union policy towards victims and per­
shell at the yard of the war-scarred church in the Beirut resort of 
ease prevention, without neces­and the Women United For Jus­petrators." 
Keliat Tuesday. The village, reputed for its plush restaurants and 
sarily condoning or promoting tice and Peace, and the fact • Notre Dame should "widely 
night clubs, has become a no-man's land separating rival 
sexual activity. that 81.3 percent of the student publicize services for victims of 
Christian forces of Gen. Michael Aoun and militia chieftain Samir 
• That during the summer, body supports the existence of sexual assault" and make stu­
Geagea northeast of Beirut. An 81-hour cease-fire was called 
the University specify its proce­some type of homosexual orga­dents aware that counseling is 
Saturday to allow citizens to salvage their households. 
dure should a student contract nization, the Committee available. the AIDS virus. reaehed the following recom­• That support groups be of­gaily, in keeping with the demo­Shadd said that the recom­mendations: fered to victims of sexual as­cratic reforms implemented last mendations on homosexuality •That the University recog­sault.
May Day 
month by King Birendra. were also reached after much nize and grant club status to 
continued from page 1 debate. and that in many cases the group GLND/SMC, which The report will be presented Workers in Mozambique the Committee came to no con­"provides an unthreatening fo­to the Board of Trustees' the Brandenburg Gate. marched through downtown sensus. Much of the data used rum for gay students to meet Committee on Student Affairs 
Stormy street protests broke Maputo demanding higher for this section came from in­for support, social outlets, and on Thursday. Shadd said she out in Seoul, South Korea's wages and lower prices and cel­terviews with homosexual stu­to join in a campaign of educa­hopes the Trustees "take it (the capital, and at least 17 provin­ebrating their first May Day dents, according to the report. tion and for gay civil rights." report) into consideration in cial cities on the labor holiday. since the ruling party dropped According to the survey on • That the University add terms of representing student Tens of thousands of students its Marxist philosophy. sexuality, one percent of those "sexual orientation" to its non­views" when they discuss the and workers at auto plants, responding indicated they were discrimination policies, which possibility of changes at the subways, shipyards and broad­And in Santiago, Chile, Presi­homosexual, two percent said already include, "race, color, University. cast stations held rallies or dent Patricio Aylwin marked bisexual, and another one per­national and ethnic ori­clashed with police. the nation's first May Day in cent said they were unsure of gin...[and] handicap." 
The protests were over police democracy in 17 years, asking their sexual orientation. Also in • That Notre Dame join 
Volunteer. 
raids that crushed strikes at a workers for patience in their the survey were statistics, often forces with University Counsel­state broadcast network and economic demands and an­greater than 50 percent, indi­ing Center and other campus South Korea's largest shipyard. nouncing changes in restrictive cating negative attitudes to­departments to develop sympo­American Heart 
Citizens in Nepal for the first labor laws issued by the previ­ward homosexuality by stu­siums on the issue of homosex­Association time celebrated May Day le-ous military regime. dents. uality. 
NOTRE DAME AVE. • •
••• APARTMENTS • 
NOW OFFERING •• 
• Summer Special
• Low monthly rate for summer months •
• 
• Early Bird Special
• Sign up before May 15th for Fall •• Semester and receive a 10o/o discount • 
• 
• Completely furnished • Off-street parking •
•
• • Balconies • On-site management & maintenance •• 
• Laundry Facilities • All deluxe features 
Our office is conveniently located at 820 ND Ave. 
• 
Call 234-6647 for all details
• 


Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
ND starts its second Alumni Club in communist country 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
Tlw new Notrn Damn Alumni Club of tlw Soviet Union is the !HIP of two known United States alumni rlubs in a communist country, according to Charlns LPnnon. PXe!~utivP din~clor of thP NotrP DamP Alumni Association. Tlw Notn• Danw Alumni Club of' China is tlw olhnr. 
Thr<'P of' thl' four rhart<'r mPmh<'rs of lh<' nl'w alumni club did not rPrPivP degrnes from NotrP DamP. JlownvPr. ar!'ording to John (;illigan. di­rPrlor of tlw lnstitutn for lnlPrnational l'ear.n Studies, 'Tarh won a rPrtificatn from lthP lnstilutPI for tlw su('(:nssful !'ompiPlion of a rours1~ of studiPs at tlw graduall~ level in thP International 1'1•ar.e S!'holars program." 
LPnnon and Cilligan agree that hl'causP of this status. tlwy qualify as ml'mlwrs of a Notre l>anw Alumni Club as fornwr students who matriculated at Notn~ llaml' but did not obtain a degme. 
The goals of the new Alumni Club arn to keep the alumni in­t'ormnd and to keep Uwm to­gether, in addition to recruiting nnw students, said Lennon. lin hopes that, in addition to the usual two graduate law stu­dents who eonw to Notre Dame, eventually live or six un­dPrgraduates will be sent each year. 
"I think it is a gn~at idea," said Lennon. "Wn would lovn to sen other communist countries open up Ito the Alumni Clubs!." 
.John Attanasio. a prot'nssor at tlw Notn~ DamP Law School. and an expPrt in r.onstitutional law, is also in llw Sovint Union giving lectur!'s in many uniwr­sitins. According to David Link. dean of tlw Law School, Attanasio is helping tlw pPopln of llw province of Estonia to re-draft tlwir constitution. 
T h P p r oj ~~ c t "o ft'c r s !Attanasio! and tlw Notn~ Dame Law School an opportu­nity to have an impact on the events in Hussia, " Link said. Link expects a Hussian profes­sor will be joining the Notre Dame faculty for next year. 
The Observer 

AP Photo 
Workout with Arnold 
President Bush joins Arnold Schwarzenegger on Lifecycle exercise bicycles on the White House lawn Tuesday morning for "The Great American Workout," a display of various forms of physical fitness. The program was sponsored by the President's Council on Physical Fitness and sports. 
We'll PackageAnything 
(YOU'VE GOT ON CAMPUS OR Ofl) 
andShipit ~ Anywhere! .~ 
You're smart enough to know a good ~ 
deal when you see one. Let us pack • 
your belongings and get them home QJ··-·-·~ .... 
(or elsewhere). -------~ 
Bring them to us, or call for plck up. 
• Ship via UPS, Federal Expref.&, 
<t6
truck, air, or U.S. Postal Service. 
• 
Protective packaging, including exclusive Foam Safe. 

• 
Large items, fragile items, anything 

• 
CASH, CREDIT CARD, LOCAL CHECK or COD 

• 
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 


914 Erskine Plaza South Bend 291-2000
'P.hstS 

PACKAGlNOAND SENDINO ~.ROS e e® ----~ 
r--------------~ 
13uy any 12' 
Italian Su6 witli One Litre Soft Vrin{ anareceive 
$1.00 off 
ca[[ 
277-3324 
:Free 'lJeGvery 
coupon ezyires: 
5-6-90 
~--------------~ 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER A Pro-Life Pregnancy Help Center: MOTHER'S DAY CARDS Available Wed. May 2-Fri. May 4 in Dining Halls at Dinner and in Law School during lunch. Mass Card is offered as way to honor Mother's and support work of Care Center. Asking $2 donation. 
Kimberly Kozlowski--Happy 21st!!WLFYIYou're the BESTI!Idgoveudgus. 
Irresistible, Congrats on Bookstore! You're THE BEST! (in all ways) 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER WILL BE OPEN THIS SUMMER! 239-67t4 
GREAT GIFTS IN A NEAT SHOP LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
FOR SALE: One way ticket South Bend to Boston departing May 21. Best Offer. Call Laura x3484 
ANNE-MARIE WALKER 
You have a beautiful smile. 
1 know this because I have 
noticed your ID card sitting 
on the checker's table at 
North Dining Hall for the past 
two nights 
-Anonymous 
Tim kicks ass 'cause I said so. 
FRILLY RANK 
I look like taco. but I taste 
like tuna!ll!ll 
PMS-THIS WEEK LOOK FOR DETAILS-EVERYBODY DOES IT! 
.....POTTERY SALE'.... Riley Hall -outside on the lawn May 2nd & 3rd 1 0-4pm .....POTTERY SALE'.... 

THIS WEEK AT. • • Wed: Cross the Border Thurs: Club Cup Night Fri: Domestic Night Open Friday lunch, noon -2pm 
Student Activities Boord Presents: 
®0~~ GD®W~)l @U\1® WJ~ ID@lNJID®® @J@[h]@J 
live from Chicago 
..... .. .. ....
.. .. 
.. .. .. ... .. .... 
.. .. .. 
... .. .. ...... 
.. .. .. .. .. .. 
.. .. .. .............
.. .. ..
.. .. .. ... .. .. ......
.. .. .. 
.. .. .. ..... .. .. .... 
.. .. .. .. .. ....
.......... 
............ .. .. .. 
.. .. .. .... 
THIS WEDNESDAY. MAY 2. 1990 on the field south of Madelvva from 5-8 pm 
BRING YOOR OWN BLANKET ­RELAX TO SOME FREE TONESII 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, May 2, 1990
page 8 
.:-Ihe ObseOE___ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief 
Alison Cocks Managing Editor Bueln-Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
New. Editor•••••••••••••••••••••••Kelley Tuthill Advertlelng Manager •••••••••Beth Bolger VI-point Editor ........... " ••Michelle Dall Ad O..lgn Manager•••••••••••• Amy Eckert Sporlll Editor •••••••••••••••••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager ••••••••Joe Zadrozny Accent Edltor••••••" .....-.Colleen Cronin Syatema Mgr ••••Bernard Brennlnkmeyer Photo Editor •••••••••••••••••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director •••••••••••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint lllary'a Editor••••••••Corinne Pavlis Controller-·····---···Chris Anderson Art Director•••••••••.•••••...Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Salnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polldes of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Salnt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

By Rich Delevan 
A university is more than a collection of people who by chance pay for an education at the same place. A true univer­sity is also a community of ideas, where the best and the brightest bring their ideas to clash and mature. and in that process, we seek the truth. At Notre Dame, we've got values and character down to a science. Somewhere along the road, however. we have lost the vibrant clash of ideas that sep­arates truly great institutions of higher learning. 
One of the main reasons for this is the stress we place on unity. It is part of our Catholic character, but it is something that can become overdeveloped. Students at Notre Dame have similar backgrounds in religion and economic situations that tend to provide an environment without inherent conflict. The overwhelming majority of stu­dents (myself included) are Catholic, middle class subur­banites. That helps us to get along well. We get along so well, in fact, that we're afraid of anything that might cause argument. 
There are several ways we can be unified while still pre­serving our diversity and indi­viduality. The first is a com­prehensive election reform. An election is usually the best time to debate the issues that will affect the students and campus for years to come. Instead, they are reduced to battles over the best posters and who will suc­ceed in bringing the most fla­vors of frozen yogurt to the dining hall. 
Current election rules further 
this situation. Spending rules 
limit senate campaigns to $45, 
class office to $7 5, and presi­
dent/vice president at $125. 
DOONESBURY 
I IX)N73etiBVB IT! YOU tf/6?& RJ6HT, HON8Y! 
JHEREARE P8JPl.& UV­ING UN!leR PMACHIJTl35! 
/ Ye5,5/R. !OR.FOUIZ 
MCWTH5NOW. 
I 
down in its own language. To penrs and freedom of associa­be blunt, it had too many tion. /\II later rnforms can take words. That, combined with an place only in this nnw context. apathetic Office of Student SPrious discussion of these Affairs led by Father Tyson, types of changes must begin if was enough to send the docu­we an~ nvnr going to sen a vi­ment to that graveyard of good brant intnllnctual life devnlop at ideas, the "task force". Notre Dame. What nends to be 
improvnd is the amount of in­If students and administra­ternal debatn on campus issues. tors am serious about changing These and othnr reforms can their relationship, they might bring Notre Dame's intellectual do the following: life to standards nxisting for Include a representative of il!hletics--excellence. and noth­Student Affairs as an active ing less. If the passionate in­participant in the task force. tt~nsity found in the Bockne Stadium, Center for Social 
The revised bill should take a Concerns and the Grotto eould These limits set on campaigns First, take the best forums lesson from the U.S. be extnnded to the Senate and force candidates to rely on for debate which currently exist Constitution. It should be an thn pages of this newspaper, 
posters, the printed equivalent on campus--The Observer, charter of the basic rights of wn'd havn a true standard of of the 8-second TV sound byte, Scholastic, Dialogue and students that the administra­excellence--and a university of which forces candidates to WSND--and use them. !lequire tion agrees not to violate. thn first rank. 
come up with as many plati­them to provide space and air These should include freedoms tudes and empty promises as time for candidates. Second, of expression, uncensored Richard Delevan a freshman they can fit into 30 words or loosen the restrictions on en­press, the right to a trial by government/history major. 
less. Debates exist only for the dorsements by student organi­student body president/vice zations and publications. It is 
LETTERS
president elections, and about the right of U.S. citizens to ex­thirty p·eople attended this press their support for candi­
year's--about half of those dates in any form they choose, Arts and Letters majors deserve were media staff. with limits. Third, raise spend­respect for their choices, talents
Innovation, when it occurs, is ing limits on campaigns, and stifled. What kind of signals provide matching funds to can­Dear Editor: matter is that students
some has student government sent in didates. Most importantly, en­Arts and Letters majors do are destined to become the this year? "Table tents" are the courage some type of "Meet the not receive the respect they de­great historians and writers of work of the devil, as demon­Candidates" forum for all con­serve from the majority of their our time while others will un­strated by the grossly unethical tests. Actually hearing a candi­Notre Dame peers. doubtedly contribute their treatment of Vinny Sanchez and date explain his ideas is in­Students in the College of engineering and scientific tal­Melissa Smith in this year's finitely better than reading Arts and Letters have chosen ents to the world. Let's give ev­campaign. Endorsements are "improve male/female their major because of their in­eryone the credit they deserve. 
less than worthless if no one relations" above a· urinal. If we terest in that particular field. I hold a great amount of re­knows about them, and, in the let voters ask how and why Most do not base the decision spect for math and science ma­case of Mark Bettencourt and directly, we can cut down on on the "realization that they jors. Personally, I have no de­Dialogue, can be rather damag­empty promises. would not be able to handle the sire to enter into either field. ing. In either case, those with A real student Bill of Rights math or science program;" they However, each one of us was the power to do so stifled new should also be implemented. simply do not wish to spend accepted into this University ideas. Our recent experience in trying their lives working in an area in regardless of our intended ma­Something is dreadfully to change the stu­which they hold no interest. jor. Once we are here, it is a wrong with a set of election dent/administrative relation­Individual thought and ability matter of personal interest as rules that spends as much time ship is lesson for the future. differentiate students at all col­to which area we wish to pur­prohibiting sound trucks and Only by changing the environ­leges and universities. It is sue. It is up to all of us to re­
airplane banners as it does ex­ment can real debate ever take inevitable that some students spect these decisions. plaining balloting. The system place. The so-called, "Bill of will be more adept in the tech­must be reformed to allow a Undergraduate and nical areas and some will be Jeannie Leavey 
free exchange of ideas on issues Administrative Relations," was stronger in language and cre­Badin Hall of merit. a good idea that was bogged ative skills. The fact-of-the-April 26, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QU~TE OF THE PAY 
7HI5/5/IoKJ?EDI&c.' ...BUTIAJITfKJUT IT, THBSB Y&AH, /3UT I OON'T. UK/7 50f18 NIGHT­Pl!fCY7tlj3 tuoUWHAV8 ftlJ5Het-7HIS awwMAJt:& IrlAR/5H P05T-M00-7!JR /ITAU-! fTMf?AN9 A LOT A HEUIJVA 7Hf!M&. 
'There is no pleasure in having
/3mt(JHfTB YOUR COMif-.13 fXl.tiN H/5RE.1 PAI?J<, IAJ()JJPo/7 IT? 5/R. IT5HOW5 YOU CARe,! I 
nothing to do; the fun is having lots to do and not doing it.·
""' .#J-IIIoo.. 
John W. Raper 
Accent
Wednesday, May 2, 1990 page 9 
Mellencamp tries his hand at a new art 
INDIANAPOLIS (APl-Singnr .John Mnlleneamp's art is popu­lated with eharaders from America's heartland. But th1~se days, those characters are morn likely to be found in oil paintings than on the radio. 
For Mellencamp. painting has provided a respite from thn pn~ssures of rock 'n roll and the rncmlt collapse of his second marriag1L 
I lis second 1~xhibit of oil paintings opnnnd April 12 at tlw Churehman-Fehsenfeld (;allery of thn Indianapolis Art League. Mellencamp first display1~d his work last yt~ar at an exhibit with jazz artist Miles Davis in Los Ang~~Ins. 
Tlw 21J portraits depict the singnr-songwritnr's family and friends. Tlw facial Pxprnssions en~atPd by his mutPd brush strok1~s an~ always sad. and tlwy convey tlw sanw disillusionnwnt found in his musiral antlwms about tlw nation's hPartland and tlw farm crisis. 
"I think you ran say nHH'h morP in a painting than you can in a stupid song," lw said in an intnrviPw with Holling StonP rnagazirw last yPar. 
"Sonw days I start at sewn o'rlork in tlw morning, and I paint until tiw, Pal dimwr and rome bark and paint till mid­night. I don't haw to se1~ any­body. I don't haw to talk to anybody. It's lwtll~r than snx for nw." 
llownvf'r, MPIIPncamp's w1~alth hardly fits tlw slnrPotypP of a struggling artist. I lis albums haw sold millions, lw I'IH'ords in his own studio and lw could afl'onl to spPnd murh of the last year in an art studio lw had built next to his honw rwar Bloomington. 
liP and his wifn, Vicky. arn in thP middle of a divoro~. Thny arP thn pan~nts of Tnddi Jon, R, and .Justic1~. 4. who rurrently are living with their motlwr. 
M1~llnncamp's manager, lfarry Sandler. said the singP.r did not want to bn interviewed about his ventun~ into the art world. "John wants to lnt the paintings stand on their own," Sandler said. "lin just chooses not to speak at this time." 
Mellencamp has not hinll~d that his musk career is over, but it has certainly taken an extend1~d vacation. lfis growing discontent with pop stardom surfaced in his last album"Never want1~d to be no pop singer. never wanted to write no pop songs." goes the bitter rdrain of the hit single, "Pop Singer," which offers Mel­Iencamp's cynical view of today's music scmw. 

IIn rdused to tour in support of "Big Daddy," and his only stage appearance in recent months came at the Farm Aid IV concert in Indianapolis March 7. The rousing ovation he received and his energetic three-song performance were far removed from the solitude of a blank canvas. 
Mnllcncamp organized the first rarm Aid back in 19R4 with Willie Nelson as a benefit for struggling farmers. 
"I think people my age need to start taking their position in the community seriously. and start dealing with local problems within the system," he said in an interview with the Associated Press. "I don't mean standing in the back rows and throwing stuff, any coward can do that. We tried that in the '60s and it didn't work out too good. I mean to take affirmative action and to make positive steps to make changes in a country that needs to go through that right now." 
But those who have worked with Mellencamp say he is seri­ous about painting, and that it is not merely a hobby. Jan Royce traveled to Mellcncamp's studio several times last summer to help him learn oil techniques. 
"lie's very bright, very eager to learn, very driven." said Royce, a portrait painter from Indianapolis. "lie paints from the heart, just as his music is from the heart." 
Royce said the immediacy of 
Midnight Oil's 'Blue Sky Mining' 
JOHN LANE Accent Writer 
Blue Sky Mining is the new album from Midnight Oil, the vet<~ran rock1~rs from Australia. This band contimws to put out ex<~ell1~nt music that's both se­rious and popular on Blue Sky Mining. 
Bltw Sky Mining is much like an 1~xtension of Dins1~l And Dust, the hand's brilliant 19R7 recording that broke thmn into the Anwrkan music scene. Mid­night Oil continues to apply se­rious political lyrics to strong guitars and drums. Ilmwver, tlw band has also diversified its sound a hit, adding more key­boards and horns to Uwir mu­sic. With tlwir rww sound, Mid­night Oil has made an im­provement over their previous work, whih~ mtaining their hard-edged roots. 
The band's political concerns an~ genuine. One critic tabbed them as the probable number one band on tiH~ CIA's hypothet­ical rnusidan's hit list because of their dislike of American l'on~ign policy. The band also writes about the Australian Aborigones and the demise of the environment. 
Midnight Oil's greatest talent is their ability to apply these concerns to music without sounding lik1~ preachers. but more like rock musirians. They do this on pop songs "Blue Sky Mine," the album's first singln, "Stars Of Warburton." and "Shakers And Movers." 
Blue Sky Mining offers a vari­ety of songs. In addition to the pop songs noted above, there are a number of fast, hard­rockin' tracks. "Forgotten Years" and "King Of The Mountain" feature furious mu­sic by guitarists Martin Holsey and Jim Moginie and drummer Hob Hirst. Blue Sky Mining also contains some good slow tunes, such as "Antarctica" and "Hiver Huns Hed," that set up the ur­gent vocals of singer Peter Gar­rett. 
Ovnrall, Blue Sky Mining rep­resents another excellent re­lease from Midnight Oil. The band demonstrates their politi­cal concerns as well as talent as musicians on this album. 
creating a painting appeals to Mellencamp's impatient nature. 
"lin works very fast and tries to capture what he's reeling im­mediately," said Julia L. Muncy, exhibits curator at the art league. 
By displaying his paintings to the public and critics, Muney said Mellencamp wanted "some validation for himself. lle wants the public to confirm, 'Am I going in the right direction?"' 
At least some buyers think so. Three of his self-portraits, ranging in price from $2,000 to $6,000. were sold before the show opened, Muney said. 
Reaction to the show was en­thusiastic among the 450 guests invited to a pre-opening party attended by Mellencamp, Muncy said. 
"They liked the work a lot. They might have been skeptical, but they are no longer," Muney said. "I was expecting things to look a little more folksy. I was surprised at the expertness or the paint­handling." 
In yet another paradox, Mel­lencamp chose to personally oversee all aspects of the Indi­anapolis showing. 
Muncy said he helped set up the exhibit, fussed over the titles of each painting and wired the frames himself in preparation for hanging. 
"lle'll deprecate his paintings. It's very strange because he's serious about painting but after a while he won't be satisfied with the results. 
"We were looking at some of these paintings and he told me, 'This is crummy, but you can hang it anyway."' Muney said. gesturing toward the exhibit. Later on. Mnllencamp did insist on removing two paintings from the exhibit because he wasn't satisliPd with thmn. 
lie may not want to discuss his paintings, but the prices on his works speak volunws. 
!lis two least expensive works are a self-portrait of himsPif and another titled "Big J," showing his daughtPr, .Justice, in a pink dn~ss. Both sell for $2,000. Tlm•e paintings an~ priced at $15,000. They are among tlw largest works in the exhibit. measuring roughly 72 inches long by 4R inches wide. 
llis first wife, Priscilla, is the subject of "Cil," which shows her wearing '50s-style glasses and large earrings. 
In "The Beach or the Bar," said to be Mnllencamp's favorite, he portrays seven people gathered around an outdoor bar. At his showing last fall in Los Angeles, the painting carried a $25,500 price tag. In Indianapolis, it's praetically a steal at $12,000. 
"Paintings cost more in L.A. He adjusted his prices down for the Midwestern market," stated Muncy. 
Muney said Mellencamp asked her if his prices were too high. "Given his name and what he's putting into them, frankly, I said no," she said. 
But Muney admits few artists who have been painting for less than two years can tag such elaborate prices on their works. 
"Yes, they're paying for the name," she said of potential Mellencamp collectors. 

Top Ten 
1. 
Blow-Red Lorry, Yellow Lorry 

2. 
Thing of Beauty-Volcano Suns 

3. 
This-Tilt-A-Whirl 

4. 
Blue Sky Mining -Midnight Oil 

5. 
Showtime-Nitzer Ebb 

6. 
Rock 'N' Roll-Cynics 

7. 
Deep-Peter Murphy 

8. 
Gold Afternoon Fix-The Church 

9. 
Umber-Bitch Magnet 

10. 
Eye-Robyn Hitchcock 


-· 
... 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.in. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1990 

\  NOTICES  LOST: dropped a single key (429)somewhere near St. Mary's Lake or Holy Cross last week.  Party Off Campus Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand V-ball court, washer/  ONE LOFT: ALMOST NEW. MUST PICK UP BY 5/1 1. GOOD PRICE. RON #3107  GOING HOME !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim at x1143 ASAP.  TOP TEN QUOTES FROM lOA 1O.How you call it... 9.Dude!  
EXPERT TYPING  PLEASE call x4897 if you picked it  dryer, safe. Bruce :  8.1=1=1=1  
$3/PG  up.  234-3831 or 288-5653  COMPUTER FOR SALE  ?.Guys, have you seen my door?  
291-3829 UPS ON CAMPUS THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 239-6174 -LAFORTUNE  LOST: Gold watch. Lost on Monday , April 30th. Has much sentimental value. Reward if found. Call Lisa at x4838.  Two Bedr Condo 2Baths, Lg rooms,pool,great for Grads 232-3972. Castle Point Studio  AMSTRAD (IBM compatible) lncludes:Color monitor, modem and EPSON printer; ALL FOR $485. Call Panos at 237-0027  LET US HELP YOU! SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY $100 FREE INSURANCE THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE  6.Madonna is an incredible singer. 5.Yo! I can drink a gallon of milk. 4.Hey!! G-String!!!! 3.But guys, it's my job. 2.Actually guys, it was my first time in a bed.  
WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! $100 FREE INSURANCE  LOST: Gold Chain Sat. between the An Tostal picnic and the Blue and Gold Game. Extreme Sentimental Value  for summer rent;fully furnished 277-8379 LARGE 5 BR HOUSE 2 BATHS  For Sale: Apple lie, monitor, dbl. disk, wp programs and manuals, hundreds o' games, $500. Greg xt462  WE TAPE! WE LABEL! WE SHIP! Discounts available  !.YOU F_ER!!!! Good-bye and good luck. Paul.  
Discounts Available  REWARD!! call Kelly 284-5464  t t/2 KITCHENS WET BAR IN  
..MOVING OFF-CAMPUS.. Need Furniture (beds, tables, desks, couch, etc...), then call 272­6117. All furniture must be sold!  WANTED  BASEMENT. NEAR ST. JOE HOSP. $480 MO. 9M LEASE 271­0373 SUMMER RENTER NEEDED  -NICE-FURNITURE FOR SALE An entire apartment! Must sell this week. Best offer or only offer! Call 272-6117  Louii-Give the frog back ••••••••FOR SALE.........  TB-Time to play name that tune ... "Everything I want the world to be, Is now coming true especially for me And the reason is clear.  
So CALL NOW! TYPING term  NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938  Luxurious Indian Springs Apts 3-bdrm townhouse, wshr/dryr in aptmt, dshwshr, central AC,  MOVING? Don't rent-BUY! $5000(0BO) buys Ford C700 2  Couch with a pull out BED  It's because you are here You're the nearest thing to heaven that I've seen-"  
papers/reports/letters/resumes Pick up & delivery available. 277-5134 Cathy  BOXES TO SHIP HOME FOR YOU. UPS ON CAMPUS DAILY  $165/mo. 232-5571. AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE.  t/2T moving truck w/hydraulic lift, 500 mi on rebuilt eng. Huge cargo box. Extra tires. BUY-LOAD­MOVE-SELL cheaper than renting!  Best Offer takes it!!!l! Call Beth Natasha or Sara at X2722  Thank You St. Jude  
Need term papers or resumes typed? Call Joanne 287-6005 WORDPROCESSING 272-1837  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 239-6714 WE TAPE' WE LABEL! WE SHIP!  COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­9364. SUBLET a TURTLE CREEK  Call288-4183. Notre Dame Men's Volleyball Team is selling ND volleyball T -shirts. Three styles to choose from. Prices $10 &  NEW JERSEY CLUB TRUCK LOADING TIMES 5/10/90:6:00-7:00 PM STEPAN COURTS  Dear BM: Miss you much. Please come up and visit me. --Your second floor Hesburgh admirer.  
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS!  Discounts available  TOWNHOUSE/FULLY FURNISHED  $11. For info call Tom x2333  5/11/90:4:15-7:00 PM STEPAN COURTS  hiag  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  tO Speed bike.272-6306  CALL KEVIN xt636  ANY PROBLEMS, CALL LEE OR  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF  
Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from  STU REPORTER WANTED NEXT FALL Need knowledgable ND fan to file daily sports update-$$. Journalism exp a plus. 312-248­5148  SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, CALL MICHELE AT x4544 or SARAH AT x4068.  VOLVO-t 978 4-dr. sedan. Auto. trans. New: tires, battery, tune-up, exhaust sys., $1800 obo. Dave 258-t 165. SPEAKERS-Project One, 3-way  DAVE (3883,4235) ASK ME IF I AM A CAR. ARE YOU A CAR?  PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., KOKOMO,IN 46901.  
Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R) 212-864-2000. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  Looking for a triple loft, 'U' shaped, to fit a room of a two-room triple. Call X4067 or X4081 ARE YOU GOING TO AMERICAN UNIV. OR JUST MOVING TO D.C. IN AUGUST? LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE? ME TOO! CALL 271-9858  FOR RENT Furnished apt-like rooms, air, kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus 272-0615 FREE, almost! Furnished houses (2) on N.D. Ave., $115 mo. per person for entire summer, OR flat $190 pp for summer session; plus electric. DEPOSIT. REFERENCES. 259-7801 days, 255-5852  spkrs. $50 obo. Call Dave: 258­1165. Selling 1 double loft-$70, and t single loft-$30, X4907. For sale: large bar and refrigerator (which fits into bar) Can buy together or separately. Excellent condition. If interested call 271­0032.  NO! ARE YOU A CAR? UH, UH, NO! HAHAHA!!!!! For Sale: Flight from Chicago to Denver, May 20. Call xt844  SENIORS Can you afford to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE you graduate and spring into savings. JUST DO IT! Call an IBM student rep today! 237-3680, -3790, -3794  
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!  evenings.  ADOPTION. We are a childless,  
MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245 TRUCK TO CONNECTICUT:  Patties is now hiring for the summer. Flexible Hours Day and Night. Our work schedule is perfect for students. Apply in  SUBLET FOR SUMMER 2-bdr apt. partially furnished Turtle Creek-price negotiable call Anne x4267.  Moving Off Campus? We Have Furniture. Call 277-661 t MRS. CRUM-CRACKER :  Going to D.C. for the summer or moving there permanently? D.C. Alumni Club can help you find housing. Call Mike Jones at (202) 546-7582 (evenings)  educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227.  
NEED BOXES, TRUNKS, ETC. BROUGHT HOME? LOW$$ CALL RYAN X3398  person. 3602 Grape Rd. Outpost Center  4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE  WE LOVE YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN TWO RESUMES TO CAREER  SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12,  

 Share driving ONLY to Bedford, VA, or en route 5/t 0 or 1 1 call  TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE RENT. 277-0959.  -the studs in 707, 708  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING.  In La Fortune (Dooley Room)! UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245  
\ LOST/FOUND  Patty, 1675. ATIENTION ·HIRING!  FOR RENT TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  TICKETS  JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN TWO RESUMES TO CAREER  PETE'S BREWING COMPANY  
LOST AT SENIOR FORMAL: faux pearl bracelet, 3 strands thick ...it belonged to my Grandmother and has GREAT sentimental value. PLEASE CALL LAURA #2533 FOUND: Blue wrist keychain­O'Sullivan?-with 2 car keys-Found Sat. at 5 PM at Bookstore Semis­on grassy hill near Stepan. Tom­1887  Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call t-602­838-8885. EXT R-6262. ATIENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details. (I) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262. ATIENTION: EARN MONEY WATCHING TV! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (I) 602­ PRICE NEGOTIABLE PLEASE CALL EITHER: TRACIE X4026 OR LAUREN X4035 GOING TO NORTHWESTERN FOR SUMMER SCHOOL? JOB IN EVANSTON/CHICAGO? 1/2 2BDR APT TO SUBLET, 3 BLKS TO NU, 1 TO EL. SARA 1674. Female wanted to share a recently  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! ~!~~.~~.':.~~.~~!~!.~!.~?? -881 3 Grad Tix = Big $$ Call Steve@ 287-2105 Yipes! My ultra-rich grandma needs a ticket for graduation or she'll beat me into submission with  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING. JUNIORS, JUNIORS: TURN IN TWO RESUMES TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING. SENIORS, DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST  LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED SPECIAL TV BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383.  
·­ HELP!!! I lost a gold ring in the mudpits Saturday. Reward to the person who finds it. Call Paula at 283-4081. LOST: Lens cap for camera. CANON Yeah, I know it doesn't seem like much but I'm broke. If found call 283-1836. THANX LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD. SEAN 2073 LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk. LOST: A Canon Sprint camera at Senior Formal. Please call Kay at277-8813. Thanks! PLEASE!! I LOST MY COMPUTER DISKS -YES WITH ALL MY PAPERS -IN LAFORTUNE LAB OR SOMEWHERE IN THE HUDDLE. THEY WERE IN A RED CASE HOLDING 5 DISKS, SOME WITH THE NAME "MOON." I REALLY REALLY NEED THESE!!! IF YOU'VE PICKED UP THE WRONG  838-8885. Ext. TV-6262. ROOMATE NEEDED SUMMER ONLY OAK HILL CONDOS FEMALE ONLY PHONE AND LEAVE A MESSAGE 272-1259 FOR RENT 6 bdr. 2 baths, Secure house. 1021 DeMaude. $550 mo. Call 234 6688 or 234 5041 . NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. Turtle Creek Apt furnished/summer Matt x3549 SUBLETTING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302 New 2 Bdrm., 2 Bath Condo. Available for 1990-1991. Walk to campus. Call Michelle at x4981.  redecorated 2 bdrm house for the summer. $200 mo. Call Now: 232-7970 FOR SALE ENTIRE ROOM­EVERYTHING MUST GO!! GIANT tOFT CUSHION/CHAIR/COUCH-MUST SEEI ONE OF A KIND. CALL 3114 ANDY OR GREG. For sale-Macintosh t 28k Complete package: printer, second disk drive, mouse, keyboard, software, only $785. 233-9428, after 6 p.m. DINING ROOM SET; EXCELLENT COND. $45 : SMALL DESK $20 OR BEST OFFER. KEVIN 256-2927 FURNISHINGS FOR THE STYLISH STUDENT: Red shag carpet (approx. 9xt2) and a wood bookcase (3 shelves). Best Offer. Call Rich at 4601. Furniture: A whole apartment full of CHEAP goods. Must go this week. Call Tom anytime 234-7083 1978VW EXCELLENT CONDITION 61 ,000 MILES, A!C 272-t 134.  her cane. I will give you CASH today for your ticket. CALL X4238 and name your price. PLEASE CALL CRISTINA IF YOU ARE SELLING GRADUATION TICKETS 283-2986. NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 616-342-0729. $$$ I NEED GRAD TIX $$$ Call BRAD @ 271-0758 I need graduation tickets for huge family. Please call Jeanne at 2600. GRADUATION TIXS, I NEED THEM! BIG BUCKS! CALL MELEAH AT X4229 NEED 2 GRAD TIX ! ! ENTER LOTIERY 4 ME ! ! CALL JIM X1415 CASH FOR GRADUATION TICKETS!! Call Chris @ 4328. \ PERSONALS  MINUTE TO PLACE YOUR "GOODBYE" CLASSIFIEDS IN THE OBSERVER FOR THE MAY 181SSUE. COME IN THIS WEEK AND AVOID THE RUSH. P.S. IF YOU DON'T COME IN THIS WEEK, THE DEADLINE FOR THE LAST ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, MAY17. DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO SAY A SPECIAL GOODBYE TO YOUR SPECIAL FRIENDS. THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS THIS FRIDAY, MAY 4. THE DEADLINE FOR GETIING CLASSIFIEDS IN FOR THAT ISSUE IS 3 PM THURSDAY, MAY3. SPIKE aka AND I KELLY Happy 21st on the 1st. Say, what's that on the side of Marian's car?? kissten and sleezy: fire up for three flights of stairs and a thoroughly rocking year. couldn't have asked for two kooler future roommies. i love you both bunches and bunches--mo Kurt loves heinous chicks! American Woofdog in London-· Your life is an A+ !I  PROFESSIONAL COUPLE DESIRES TO ADOPT BABY. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED OF THE CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT IF YOU DESIRE. EXPENSES PAID. CALL 0-317-298-8548 OR ATIORNEY 0-317-882-9799 (ref#89-129). ANNA BUNGER GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS LOVE CLANCY CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS REGARDLESS OF CONDITION. 277-9954. LAW STUDENT LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE IN D.C. THIS FALL. CALL KATHLEEN AT 1918. DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO SEE DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE BAMBOO GANG ON WED., MAY 2 IN THE FIELD SOUTH OF MADELEVA, 5-8 PM TONIGHT DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE BAMBOO GANG-LIVE FROM CHICAGO-5-8 ON THE FIELD SOUTH OF MADELEVA!! Are you an ND student from DuPage County or the Chicago suburbs? Interested in doing any community service in your free time this summer?  
CASE, OR WHATEVER, PLEASE CALL MONICA AT 288-4335 OR LEAVE IT AT THE LAFORTUNE LAB. THANK YOU!!!! I lost my SEIKO wristwatch  2 BDRM, 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272­6306 SUMMER RENTAL. House or Rooms. Near campus.272-6306 NEAR ND: Clean and comfortable  For Sale: 2 Lofts $35 ea. 2 sm. couches $20 & $30. Table & lamp $5 ea., Pale Green Rug fits double or quad. Call 3442. Remember Furniture is hard to find in the fall. AMSTRAD LAPTOP W/  spunk lords rule START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates.  Why so somber? You know I'd drive on flats to see you! Let's get together & talk about our relationship (on any level). What's your point?!? I'll miss you guys I Love, Heather Buffalo Baggage Truck loads  Fellowship of American College Students organizes various activities during the summer and provides college students with service work opportunities in their spare time. Call Ron X1716 if interested.  
with black wristband.  Maybe  turn. apts: 755 South Bend  EXTERNAL MONITER. 2  Call: Gary Erb  Fri. 5/11 2-5pm Stepan and  
on North Quad. If found  Ave•efficiency-$225;•t bdrm-$265  DRIVES. MUST SELL SOON.  At: Gates Toyota  unloads Sat. 5/t 2 6-9pm. For info  
please call Diana x4003  dep.,references 616-483-9572  GARYX3952.  237-4999  call Tom x3368 or Matt x3681.  see CLASS I page 7  

--------~----------------------~-·--_,__ ~

Wednesday, May 2, 1990 Scoreboard page 11 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NBA PLAYOFFS TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE FIRST ROUND leads series 2· 1 BASEBALL East Division East Division (Best-of-5) Milwaukee 119, Chicago 112, Chtcago leads American League 
w L A::l <E w L A::l <E Thursday, April 26 senes 2·1 DETROIT TIGER5-Returned Johnny Paredes, Milwaukee 13 6 684 PiUsburgh 14 6 700 Philadelphia 111, Cleveland 106 Detroit 108, Indiana 96, Detroit wins series 3-0 infielder, to the Montreal Expos and Steve Boston 12 8 600 11/2 Montreal 11 9 ,550 3 Detroit 104, Indiana 92 Houston 114, Los Angeles Lakers 108, Los Wapntck. pitcher. to the Toronto Blue Jays Toronto 13 9 591 11/2 Philadelphia 11 9 .550 3 Boston 116, New York 105 Angeles leads series 2· 1 Recalled Brian DuBois, pitcher, !rom Toledo ot the Cleveland 9 10 474 4 New York 9 II .450 5 San Antonio 119, Denver 103 Portland 106, Dallas 92, Portland wins series 3·0 InternatiOnal League Baltimore 9 12 429 5 St. Louis 9 11 .450 5 Portland 109, Dallas 102 San Antonio at Denver, (n) KANSAS CITY ROYAL5-0ptioned Bill Pecota, New York 7 II 389 5 1/2 Ch1cago 8 11 .421 51/2 Friday, April27 infielder, and Gary Thurman, outfielder, to Omaha DetrOit 8 13 381 6 West Division Chicago Ill. Milwaukee 97 Wednesday, May 2 of the American Assoctatlon. West Division w L A::l <E Utah 113, Phoenix 96 Boston at New York, 8 p.m. OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms With 
w L A::l <E Cincinnati 13 4 .765 Los Angeles Lakers 101, Houston 89 Utah at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. Dennis Eckersley. p1tcher. on a two,year contract Oakland 15 5 750 Los Angeles 11 10 .524 4 Saturday, April 28 Thursday, May 3 extenston. Ch1cago 11 6 647 2 1/2 San Diego 9 10 .474 5 Boston 157, New Vorl< 128, Boston leads series 2-Chicago at Milwaukee, 6 p.m. SEATTLE MARINERS-Placed Scott Texas 11 10 .524 4 1/2 Houston 9 11 .450 5 1/2 0 Los Angeles Lakers at Houston, 8 p.m. Bankhead. pttcher. on 20-day 1njury rehab11itatton Caltlornta 9 11 450 6 San Francisco 8 12 .400 61/2 Detroit 100, Indiana 87 Philadelphia at Cleveland, 8 p.m. assignment wtth Calgary ol the Pacific Coast Minnesota 8 12 400 7 Atlanta 5 13 ,278 8112 San Antonto 129, Denver 120, San Antonio leads San Antonio at Denver, TBA, il necessary League. Purchased the contract of Bryan Clark, Seattle 8 13 .381 7112 series 2·0 Friday, May 4 pitcher. from Calgary. Sent Dennis Powell, pitcher, Kansas C1ty 6 13 316 8 1/2 Portland 114, Dallas 107 Boston at New Vorl<, 8 p.m., il necessary and Mat1 Sinatra, catcher, outright to Calgary 
Sunday, Aprll29 Utah at Phoenix. TBA TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Assigned Steve Chicago 109, Milwaukee 1 02 Saturday, May 5 Wapnick, pitcher. to Syracuse ol the International AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Los Angeles Lakers 104, Houston 100 Cleveland at Philadelphia, TBA. if necessary League
Tuesday's Games Monday's Games 
Philadelphia 107, Cleveland 101 Denver at San Antonio, TBA, il necessary National League Oakland 4. New York 2 Cincinnati 6, Philadelphia 2 
Phoenix 105, Utah 87, series tied H Milwaukee at Chicago, TBA, il necessary ATLANTA BRAVES-Placed Nick Esasky. first Calitornta 7. Balttmore 1 Houston 4, Montreal 2 
Monday, April 30 Sunday, May 6 baseman. on the 15-day d1sabled list, retroactive to Boston 8. Saattle 2 Atlanta 7. New York 4 
No games scheduled Houston at Los Angeles Lakers. 3:30p.m., il April22.Toronto 4. Cleveland 3 San Francisco 8, Los Angeles 4 
Tuesday, May 1 necessary CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Jell Pico, pitcher,
Minnesota 9, Detro1t 5 Only games scheduled 
Late Game Not Included New Vorl< at Boston, TBA, if necessary to Iowa of the American Association. Chteago 5, Texas t Tuesday's Games 
Cleveland 122, Philadelphia 92, Philadelphia Phoenix at Utah. TBA, if necessary MONTREAL EXPOS-Ass1gned JohnnyM1lwaukee 6. Kansas C1ty 4 Late Games Not Included 
Paredes, infielder. to Indianapolis of the Amencan Philadelphia 4, Cincinnati 2 
Associatton. Atlanta 5, New York 2 
PHILADELPHIA (95) DETROIT (108) PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Sent EulogioWednesday's Games Montreal 2, Houston 1, 13 innings Mahorn 3-7 3-6 9, Barkley 5-10 5·8 17, Gminski Edwards 4·12 5-5 t3, Rodman 5-6 0-2 10, Perez, shortstop, !rom Spartanburg ol the South Seattle (Hanson 2·0) at Boston (Harns 2-0), 6:05 St. LOUIS at San D1ego. (n) 1-6 0-0 2, Hawkins 7·15 5-5 19, Dawkins 3-9 2·2 8, Laimbeer 6·12 0·0 12, Dumars 6·11 3·4 15. Atlantic League to thetr extended spnng trainingOakland (Sanderson 2· 1) at New York (Leary 1. t ), Pittsburgh at Los Angeles, (n) Anderson 2·6 2·2 7, Brooks 3-4 2-2 10, Smith 5-8 Thomas 10-18 1-2 23, Salley 6·9 5-7 17, Aguirre 3· 
program. Assigned Corey Thomas, infielder, to 
7:30p.m Chicago al San Francisco, (n) 1-2 11, Thornton 1-3 2·4 4. Nimphius 1-6 0-0 2, 8 4-4 10, Johnson 4-11 0-0 8. Totals 44-87 t8-24 SpartanburgCalllorma (Biyleven 0-2) at Balttmore (Ballard 0·3), Wednesday's Games Payne 2-4 0-0 4, Copeland 1·2 0·0 2. Totals 34-80 108. 7:35p.m Chicago (Harkey 2·1) at San Francisco (Garrelts 0-22-31 95. INDIANA (96) Toronto (Cerutti t-3) at Cleveland (Black 2·0). 7:35 2). 3:35p.m. CLEVELAND (122) Person 6-14 1·4 14, Schrempl7·15 6·6 20. Smits 
FOOTBALL National Football League M1nnesota (West 1·3) at DetrOit (Morns 2-2), 7·35 St. Louis (Deleon 2-0) at San Diego (Hurst 0·3), Nance 7-10 3-3 17, Bennett 4·11 2·4 10, 3-10 4-5 10, Fleming 5·11 4·4 14, Miller 8·13 6·7 CHICAGO BEARS-Stgned Steve Elmlinger,
Texas (Hough t·l) at Ch1cago (H1bbard 2·1). 8:05 4:05p.m. Daugherty 5-8 3-9 13, Ehlo 9·13 5·7 25. Price 3·9 22, Sanders 2·6 0-0 4, Green 0-2 0-0 0, Thompson Quintin Smith and Cedric Tillman, wide recetvers:Milwaukee (Navarro 0-0) at Kansas Ctty (Gub1cza Atlanta (Clary 0· 1) at Montreal (Z.Smith 2· 1 ), 7:35 7-7 t5, Williams 5-10 3-3 13, Rollins 1·2 2-4 4, Kerr 4·8 4·4 12. Wittman 0·0 0-0 0. Totals 35-79 25-30 James Loti and James Moses, delens1ve backs,
t·3). 8 35 p.m Cincinnati (Browning 2·1) at New York (Viola 4·0), 2-3 0-0 4, Chievous 5-6 3-3 13, Mokeski 0·1 2·2 2, 96. 
Alex Armentos. safety: Bruce Brineman. guard: Red 
7:35p.m Morton 2-3 2·2 6.Totals 43-76 32-44 122. 3·Point goals-Detroit 2-5 (Thomas 2·3, 
Hennings. defensive tackle: Sloan Hood, fullback:
Houston (Clancy t ·0) at Philadelphia (Cook 3-0), 3·Point goals-Philadelphia 5-14 (Brooks 2·3. Laimbeer 0-1, Aguirre 0-1), Indiana 1-6 (Person 1· 
Tim Marconi, tackle: Keith Ponlillet. cornerback.
Thursday's Games 7:35p.m Barkley 2-4, Anderson 1·1, Gminski 0·1, Dawkins 3, Fleming 0·1, Schremp! 0-2). Fouled out-None. 
and Davtd Westbrooks, defensive end. 
Cleveland at New York. 1 p m Ptttsburgh (Smtley 2-2) at Los Angeles 0·1, Smith 0-1, Payne 0-1, Hawkins 0·2), Rebounds-Detroit 52 (Laimbeer 19), Indiana 46 CLEVELAND BROWNS-Watved Darryl Sims,
Minnesota at Detroit. 1 :35 p m (Valenzuela t-2). 10:35 p m Cleveland 4·7 (Ehlo 2-3, Price 2-4). Fouled out­(Thompson 6). Assists-Detroit 25 (Thomas 9), defensive lineman: K.D. Dunn, tight end: and BobMilwaukee al Kansas Ctty, 2 35 p m Thursday's Games None. Rebounds-Philadelphia 41 (Barkley 11 ), Indiana 15 (Miller 4). Total louis-Detroit 25, Sims. offensive lineman Stgned George
Texas at Chtcago. 8 05 p m Atlanta at Montreal, 7:35p.m. ·cleveland 59 (Daugherty, Ehlo 10). Assists­Indiana 21. Technicals-Rodman. Schremp!. A-Hawthorne, offensive tackle: Pete Scott. offenSiveCalilornta at Seattle. 10·05 p m Cincinnati at New York, 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia 18 (Dawkins 7), Cleveland 32 15,301. 
guard: Tom Bolyard, punter: Kevin Sprinkles. tight 
Only games scheduled Houston at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. (Daugherty, Ehlo 9). Total louis-Philadelphia 24, end: and Jerry Kaurlc, placekicker. 
Cleveland 27. Technicals-Philadelphia illegal 
INDIANAPOLIS COL T5-Signed Doug Lowery. 
defense, Barkley. A-16,317. 
Gary Baldinger and Sean McNanie, delenstve LA LAKERS (108) ends: Dwayne O'Connor and Eugene Riley. light
AMERICAN lEAGUE NATIONAl lEAGUE PORTLAND (106) Green 7·10 2-2 16, Worthy 10-18 5-7 26, ends; Ron Vargo. center: and Jesste Hester, w1de BATTING (34 at bats)-Heath. DetrOit. 444. BAITING (34 at bats)-Kennedy. San Franc1sco. Kersey 12·22 5·8 29. B.Williams 2-3 3·4 7, Thompson 4-7 1-3 9, E.Johnson 5-14 7·9 17, Scott receiver. 
Pena Boston. 403. Gnlley. Seattle ..388. Stillwell. 4t0. Duncan, C1nc1nnati. .408. Santiago. San Duckworth 2·7 0·0 4, Drexler 9·17 2·2 20, Porter 7-6-11 2·2 16, Woolridge 7·12 4-5 18. Divac 2·2 2-2 
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-S1gned Sidney
Kansas C1ty. 386. Webster. Cleveland. 375 D1ego. 397. Sabo. Cincinnati ..391: Lark1n. 13 6-10 20, Cooper 2-4 0-2 4, Young 1-2 2·2 4, 6, Cooper 0·1 0-0 0, Drew 0·0 0-0 0. Totals 41·75 Johnson. cornerback: Bryan Barker, punter: Lee 
RUN8-RHenderson Oakland. 16. Canseco. Ctncinnalt. 365. Petrovic 1-3 4·4 6, Robinson 2·4 0-2 4. Bryant 2-3 23-30 108. 
Johnson, nose tackle: Sherrod Ra1nge, delenstve Oakland. 15. Boggs Boston. t4. Franco. Texas. 14. RUNS-Bonilla, Prttsburgh, 17: Butler. San 4-4 8. Totals 40-78 26-38 106. HOUSTON (114) 
back: Lonnie Marts and Enc Thomas, linebackers. 
Palmetro. Texas. 14. Reynolds. Seattle. 14 Franc1sco. 16, Sabo. Cincinnati. 16: McGee. St. DALLAS (92) B.Johnson 4·9 4·4 12, Thorpe 8·13 11-14 27. 
Mike Kiselak, guard: and Bran Lowery, runnmg
RBI-Gruber. Toronto. 20. Fielder. DetrOit. t9. LOUIS. t5, 4 are !ted With 14 Tarpley 2· t2 2-8 6, Perkins 5-12 3-4 13, Olajuwon 10·17 2-2 22. Floyd 9-t2 2-6 23, back. 
McGwtre. Oakland. 18. Felix. Toronto. 17: Gnlley, RBI-Bontlla. Pittsburgh. 21. Guerrero. St. LOUIS. Donaldson 6·7 0·1 12. Harper 5·14 0·0 II, Maxwell 9-25 5·8 26, Smith 0-0 0·0 0, Wiggins 0·1 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Morgan 
Seattle, 17 20: JCarter. San Diego. 17. WCiark. San Blackman 11-22 0·0 23, Jones 0·0 0-0 0, 1-2 1, McCormick 1·1 1-2 3, Caldwell 0·0 0-0 Gregory. wide receiver, and Tim Hauck, tree safetyHIT5-Gnlley. Seattle, 31. Pena, Boston. 29. Franc1sco t7: Dawson. Chtcago. 15. MaWilliams. H.Williams 6·11 5·8 17, Wennington 0·1 0-0 0, O.Totals 41-78 26·38 114. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Granted Earl Ferrell. 
Fernandez. Toronto. 27. Gruber. Toronto. 27, San Franctsco. t5 Allord 4·8 2-2 10.Totals 39-87 12-23 92. 3-Point goals-Los Angeles 3-12 (Scott 2·4, running back. lree·agency status. 
Trammell, Detro1t. 26 HITS-Sutler. San Franctsco. 30: McGee. St. 3·Point goals-Portland 0-4 (Drexler 0-2. Porter Worthy 1-2, Woolridge 0-1, Cooper 0·1, E.Johnson 
DOUBLES-DParker. Milwaukee. 7. Felix. Louis. 30. WCiark. San Franc1sco. 26: Larkin. 0-2), Dallas 2·10 (Blackman 1·3, Harper 1-4, 0·4), Houston 6·12 (Floyd 3·4, Maxwell 3·8). Toronto. 7. Gladden. Minnesota, 7, RHenderson. Cincinnati 25. Sabo. Cincinnati. 25: Sant1ago. San Tarpley 0-1, Alford 0·2). Fouled out-Perkins. Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Los Angeles 39 TENNIS Oakland. 7. Stillwell Kansas C1ly. 7. Trammell. D1ego. 25 Rebounds-Portland 55 (B.Williams 1 0), Dallas 54 (E.Johnson 8), Houston 51 (Thorpe 8). Assists­USTA-Named Marshall Happer U.S. Open DetrOit. 7 DOUBLES-Gnssom. Montreal. B. McGee. St. (Tarpley 15). Assists-Portland 26 (Drexler 1 0), Los Angeles 31 (E.Johnson 18), Houston 27 (Floyd tournament dtrector and Michael J. Burns U.S. 
Lows. B DeShields. Montreal. 7: Owen. Montreal. Dallas 22 (Harper 12). Total fouls-Portland 26, 18). Total fouls-Los Angeles 21. Houston 24. A-Claycourt tournament dtrector. TRIPLES-tO are lied with 2 7. 5 are lied With 6 Dallas 29. A-17,007 16.611. 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
COLLEGE METRO ATLANTIC CONFERENCE-Named Rev. Aloystus P Kelley. pres1dent: Brother Thomas 
J. Scanlan, chairman ol the Policy Committee, and 
Dr. Daniel P Starr. chatrman ol the Comm1ttee on DIVISION SEMIFINALS Mmnesota 4. Chicago 0 Tuesday, April 17 wtns senes 4-1 Athletic Administration. Wednesday, April 4 Winntpeg 4. Edmonton 3, 20T Boston 3. Hartford 1, Boston wins series 4-3 Boston 3. Montreal I. Boston wins series 4·1 ALLEGHENY-Named Joe Philbin ollensive 
Mtnnesota 2. Ch1cago 1 Los Angeles 12, Calgary 4 Saturday, April 28 coordinator and offensive line coach. St. Louts 4. Toronto 2 Wednesday, April 11 DIVISION FINALS St. Louis 4, Chicago 2 CHAPMAN COLLEGE-Named Dave Currey Los Angeles 5. Calgary 3 Boston 6, Hartford 5 Wednesday, April 18 Monday, April 30 athletic director. effective July 1 W1nmpeg 7, Edmonton 5 Bulfalo 4. Montreal 2 St. Louis 4. Chicago 3 Chicago 8, St. Louis 2, Chicago wins series 4-3 FLORIDA-Signed Lon Kruger. men's head 
Thursday, April 5 New Vorl< Rangers 6, New York Islanders 1 Edmonton 7, Los Angeles 0 basketball coach, to a five-year contract. Hartford 4. Boston 3 Washmgton 3. New Jersey 1 Thursday, Aprll19 PFE IFFER-Named Jack Ingram athletic Bullalo 4. Montreal 1 Thursday, April 12 NY. Rangers 7, Washington 3 CONFERENCE FINALS director. New Vorl< Rangers 2. New York Islanders 1 Chicago 5. Minnesota t Bosotn 1 , Montreal 0 Wednesday, May 2 
' 
SOUTHERN METHODIST-Announced the 
Washington 5. New Jersey 4 OT St. louis 4. Toronto 3, St. Lows wms series 4-1 Friday, Aprll20 Ch1cago at Edmonton. 9:35p.m. 
resignation of John Ftefding. women's tennts 
Friday, Aprtl6 Calgary 5. Los Angeles 1 Chicago 5, St. Louts 3 Thursday, May 3 
coach. Ch1cago 5, M1nnesota 3 Edmonton 4. Winnipeg 3 Edmonton 6, Los Angeles 1 Washington at Boston, 7:35p.m. 
WYOMING-Announced that Lee Mayberry,St LoUis 4. Toronto 2 Friday, April 13 Saturday, April 21 Friday, May 4 
basketball forward. is transferring to a juniorCalgary 8, Los Angeles 5 Boston 3, Hartford 2 Boston 5. Montreal4, OT Chicago at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 
college
Edmonton 3, Wtnnipeg 2. OT Montreal 4, Bullalo 2 Washington 6. N.Y. Rangers 3 Saturday, May 5 
Saturday, Aprll7 Washington 4, New Jersey 3 Sunday, April 22 Washington at Boston, 7:05p.m. Boston 3, Hartford 1 New York Rangers 6, New York Islanders 5, St. Louis 5, Chicago 4, Sunday, May 6 Montreal 3, Bulfalo 0 Rangers win series 4-1 Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 4 Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m. New Jersey 6. Washmgton 5 Saturday, April 14 Monday, April 23 Monday, May 7 SPORTS CALENDAR New York Rangers 5, New York Islanders 2 Edmonton 4, Winnipeg 3 Washington 7, N.Y. Rangers 1 Boston at Washington. 7:35p.m. 
Sunday, AprtiB Minnesota 5, Chicago 3 Boston 6, Montreal 3 Tuesday, May 8 St. LoUis 6, Toronto 5. OT Los Angeles 4, Calgary 3, 20T, Los Angeles wins Tuesday, April 24 Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Winmpeg 2 Edmonton 1 series 4·2 Ch1cago 3, St. Louis 2 Wednesday, May 9 Wednesday, May 2 Ch1cago 2. Mmnesota 1 Sunday, Aprtl15 Edmonton 6, Los Angeles 5, OT. Edmonton wins Boston at Washington, 7:35p.m. Baseball vs. Valparaiso (2) 2 p.m 
Loa Angeles 2, Calgary 1, OT Montreal 5, Bulfalo 2, Montreal wins series 4-2 series 4·0 Thursday, May 10 
Lacrosse vs. Michigan St. 
Monday, Aprtl9 Washington 3, New Jersey 2, Wash1ngton wins Wednesday, April 25 Chicago at Edmonton. 9:35p.m.. if necessary Harttord 5, Boston 3 senes 4·2 Washington 4, N.Y. Rangers 3, OT Friday, May 11 Thursday, May 3 Montreal 2. Bullalo 1, OT Hartford 3, Boston 2, OT, series tied 3·3 Montreal 4, Boston 1 Washington at Boston, 7:35p.m., il necessary Softball vs. ValparaiSO (2) 4 p.m 
New York Islanders 4. New York Rangers 3. 20T Monday, April 16 Thursday, April 26 Saturday, May 12 New Jersey 2. Washington 1 Ch1cago 5, Minnesota 2, Chicago wins series 4·3 Chicago 3, St. Louts 2 Edmunton at Chicago, 8:35p.m.. il necessary Frtday, May 4 
Tuesday, Aprt110 Edmonton 4, Winnipeg 1. Edmonton wins series 4-Friday, Apr1127 Sunday, May 13 Softball vs lllino1s·Chicago (2) 4 p.m Toronto 4. StLOUIS 2 3 Washington 2, NY. Rangers 1, OT, Washington Boston at Washington, 7:05p.m.. il necessary 

SUMMER WORK EHPERIENCE 
RESPONSIBLE SALES EHPERIENCE FOR HIGH GROWTH ENTERPRISE 
EHCELLENT INCOME POTENTIRl FROMRL TRRININ6 & FLEHIBLE HOURS OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT NRTIONWIDE 
flUllWlUI.: Interest In Marketing and Sales Strong Interpersonal Skills EHcellenl Presentation Skills 
l:.Jul.lW: Doug Clerk, rounder 
Clork's Heolthy Gourmet • 1415 Terminal Rood • Niles, Ml 49120 • (616) 683-9500 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

BICYCLES •EXERCISERS •BM)( HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PARTS-ACCESSORIES 
BIKES BOXED ••• Ct.OSEO SUNDAY & MONOAY
SUMMER STORAGE TUESDAY IOAM-7PM 
W£tltfESOAY-SATUROAY lOAM 5 30PM 
AVAILABI E ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 
277-8866 259-4862 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 3836 LWE 
r 
page 12 
Crew team light eight earns championship 
The Crew team capped off a suc­cessful season with a trip to the Midwest Rowing Championships in Madison, Wisconsin last weekend. The men's lightweight eight took first for the second year in a row with Dave Reeder (bow), Mike Allen, Mike Whitman, Eric Waffner, Bart Hichards, Bob Gregory, John Wilson and Matt Noll (stroke) anchoring Mike Kamradt the boat. Jill Jacobs was the 

Club Corner
coxswain. 
"It was pretty exciting," said Richards."We pulled away early and held off a charge by Witchita St., but overall, it was surpris­ingly easy." 
The men's heavyweight eight, who took home a bronze medal, were barely edged out by Northwestern for second. None of the women's teams placed. 
"Overall it was a very satisfying season," said new presi­dent Richards. 
The Men's volleyball team took another giant step toward becoming a top volleyball program as they finished 13th at the National Tournament on April 20th and 21st in Knoxville, Tennessee. The team capped off a season that saw the Irish go an outstanding 31-14, including a win over the varsity squad of Graceland College. In the Tournament the Irish were able to notch a few match victories, but weren't able to get by some of the toughest club teams in the nation. 
"We were pretty happy with the results because it was our first time to the Nationals," said Captain Tom Martin." We didn't play as well as we had been and we ran into some tough competition." 
That competition included the University of California­Berkley and the University of Tennessee. Those two teams competed for the championship with Berkley winning it all. 
"With a little luck and if we had played better we could have made a run at beating them,"commented Martin. 
The Irish will definitely be back next year led by this year's co-MVPs, junior Martin and sophomore Dave Bose. Martin led the team in kills with a whopping 267 or 6 per match. Senior Mike Sheedy was second with 220 while Bose put down 214. Pedro Nemalceff will return next year to run the offense from his setter position. The junior had an amazing 960 assists and also contributed a 98% serving percentage. 
"This tournament was good because now we've been there 
once and we know what it takes to win it," said Martin. 
HAMMES 
NDTREDAM£ 

) 
_f 
Scotch Mailing Tape (tan) 
$1.99 
The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
SMC tennis ends season with loss 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE rival 6-2. 6-2. Number five McDonald was down 2-5 in the Sports Writer sophomore Marie Koscielski­first set when sho came back to was defeated in three sets, 6-defeat her opponent in straight 
The Saint Mary's tennis 1,3-6,2-6. Freshman Natalie sets 7-5. 6-0. team,( 5-9 ), ended its season Kloepfer, number six singles, away this weekend. after being ousted her oppmwnt 6-0, 6-2. The Belles were also victori­defeated in a close match ous after a dose battle against against Division 1 University of In doubles, Block and Sarah Kalamazoo College on Friday, Toledo, 6-3. Mayer were defeated in close defeating their opponent 5-4. 
three sets, 2-6, 6-4, 3-6. Num­
Jen Block, senior captain, ber two doubles Koscielski and "The most difficult part of played a tough number one Mayer lost in straight sets, 6-2, the match against Kalamazoo match, losing 6-1, 6-1. Junior 6-2. Number three doubles Mc­was there was no-ad scoring. It co-captain Sarah Mayer played Donald and Kloepfer were also really makes a differl'nce. We well with a sweeping victory dPI'eated 6-2,6-4. definitely wPre not overplayed over her number two singles or ovcrpownn~d. Tlw matrh opponent, 6-0,6-0. In earlier action, the Belles was close because of too many 
"Everything just clicked for lambasted Aquinas College on unforced errors," said Szajko. her," said Belles coach Charlene Saturday with only the number Szajko. three doubles going to three "I think we played w~ry wPII," 
sets. The final score was 9-0. said Szajko. "Towards tlw end 
Freshman Denise McDonald of the year it's hard to keep on suffered defeat at number three The biggest win for the Belles track. But everyorw played wPll. singles, losing 6-1,6-1. Number in that match was McDonald's They were cxc~ited and had tlwir four Ellen Mayer crushed her number three singles match. minds on thn ganw." 
Basketball recruit picks ND for '91 
Observer Staff Report us," Kerkman said. "But he's The 1990 freshman class will 
also very capable of going out-include 6-9 twins Jon and Joe 
A 6-6 high school junior from side. lie can handle the ball and Ross of Northfield High in Illinois will attend Notre Dame is one of our better passers. Wabash, 6-3 guard-forward on a basketball scholarship in He's a very good all-around the fall of 1991, his coach said player." Carl Cozone of Marist High in Tuesday. Taylor and Williams will be Chicago, and 6-2 guard Brooks 
Aurora West coach Gordon able to officially sign in Boyer of Lumen Christi High in Kerkman said Bill Taylor has November. Jackson, Mich. verbally committed to Notre r:~~~l~~~:~~~:~ 
D~~:o·m what I und"rstand. h" · WEEK. END LITURGIES AT STEPAN ~ has given a verbal c~mmitmen~ ~ MAY B • 8, 1990 ::: to Notre Dam~," Kerkman said. 1 5:00 pm Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., presiding. ~ !~ylor ~Ill_ J0111 Jason ~} 10.00 am Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., presiding. I Wtl~tams, ~ JU?IOr guard from !i:ri 11:45 am Rev. Daniel Jenk C S c idin :::: 
Indtanapohs Ptke who has also ~ y, • • ., pres g. 1 verbally committed to the Irish. I WEEK • END LITURGIES AT STEPAN ;-; Taylor averaged 18.5 and ~ MAY 12 • 13 1990 ~ pulled down 9 rebounds per I R J hn ' ~
5.00
game as a junior while helping ii : pm ev. 0 Lahey, C.S.C, presiding. I Aurora West to a 24-6 record. l10.00 am Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C., presiding. ~ "In the past. t~ree years, he ' • 11:45 am Rev. ~tephen Newton, C.S.C., presiding. " 
"Stick With The One You Know" 
Strapping 
T A P II 
Htelo""'""'~ ll..,ol-.... •I• II• ....••• . ~~o, . .,.. u.••, 1\."••ll·ototl"'•.,. II"~ 
Scotch Clear Scotch Box Sealing Strapping Tape Tape 
$2.59 $2.39 

Wednesday, May 2, 1990 The Observer page 13 
H~ i"~ ~"~,~..~inner ~!,~~,,~~at~ ~~~~!~!d~,. Q,i,y~.~.,fl.,~~~~...~,~ Y~,~~ 
Ohio State tailback Archie ~ an incredible 40-6 record. was a springboard in my career." (;riffin looks like he should . He won the Heismans in 1974 and 1975 andre-Griffin springboardnd to the two lleismans, a pro bf' carrying the water bottle . e e mains the only two-time winner of that coveted career with the Cincinnati Bengals and a current instPad of the football. honor. position as an assistant athletic director at Ohio 
At five-feet, ten inches, "It wasn't so much that I won it two times, but State. lie is also very active in community service, Griflin doesn't exactly tower that it was the lleisman Trophy," Griffin said. "That gettirig his OSU degree a quarter early so he could over a crowd. ..:J stands for excellence and reflects the success we devote more time to that service. 
"Wiwn I walk into a room had as a team." While stressing the importance of a good nduca­the first thing people say is, Greg Guffey Griffin's career didn't exactly begin with lleisman lion, Griffin continually draws comparisons between 'I thought you were bigger Sports Editor hopes. As a freshman in 1972, the first year fresh-football and life. than that,"' Griffin said after men could play on tlw varsity level, he fumbled in his "The thing I like most about athletics and the spPaking to Tlw Ohio State first carry against Iowa. game of football is that you learn the important Ins-Alumni Club of Gn~ater But when he thought his earner might be over be-son of how to get up after you'vt~ btwn knocked South Bend Tuesday IWtming. "But I had a high fore it started, eoach Woody Hayes gave him an-down," Griffin said. "The game of football is like school coach who said it wasn't tlw size of the dog other chance the following week against North real life. Things get tough, and we've got to get up. in tlw light. but tlw size of the light in the dog." Carolina. The result was a 239-yard rushing per-We've got to strive and reach the things we set out 
Gri rnn artually used that siw to his advantage formance and a 29-14 Bur.kfly1~ victory. to." during a stellar Buckeye canwr in which he won two "That was my most memorable moment in all of And Griffin has had a long reach. both on and off IIPisman trophies and gainml 5589 yards on IJ24 football," Griffin said. ''I'm very thankful for that. the football field. 
after my sophomorn year I was looking for a morn talented place academically and in ten­
Dolhare 
continued from page 16 
nis." rior education and better Sinen he has come to Notre 
com pnti tion. Dame, he has enjoyed great 
"In Arg1~ntina I had no idea success, finishing 27-16 this how the system worked in year and 25-12 last year. His Anwrica," said I>olhan~. "It's brand of tennis has lent credi­like if you wanted to go to bility to the tennis program. study in Argentina. would you Head Coach Bayliss likes the know wlwre to go to college'! I experience and demeanor of wound up at Austin Peay, but the international component of his tennis team. King David. But this doesn't But the gallant I>olhare will 
"lie adds credibility, ability bother Dolhare. be quick to remind you that the and Bxperience to this team," ''I've been very confident in one in the spotlight is not the said Bayliss. "He's played all my position," said I>olhare. whole show. When it comes to over the world. lie's got savvy." "Dave deserves all the exposure results, there is no tennis 
he's getting. lie's getting most player more important than 
In Argentina Dolhare was a of the attention, but it's much another, since every win counts two-time Argentinean national easier to ehannel the exposure the same. age group champion, and in through Dave than any other Presently the 24-4 Irish, 1986 he was ranked second in player. lie's the most talented ranked 19th in the nation, am his age group. So why is this player on our team by far, and waiting for the NCAA tourna­maestro pi second fiddle Dave is the one who catches ment committee to decide out of the t'? 's attention." whether Notre Dame will get a rr.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i!!!p.l~~!!!!l bid to thn ultimate match. the 
NCAAs. Whether Dolharn plays any more collegiate tennis de­pends upon the decree of that committee. since the tennis team wound up its season against by beating Division Ill Kalamazoo 9-0 on Ttwsday night. 
On the future, Dolhare origi­nally intended to go back to Argentina, but now he has changed his plans. But what are his plans? 
"That's a tough question. It wouldn't be a tough question if I knew what I was doing. I'm definitely going to say in Amer­ica, but after May 20 I rPally don't know. I guess I'll get a job." 



Ittook Freud 38 years to understand it. You have one night. 
The psych exam is in 12 hours. And your id wants to party. Your ego 
wanl'i to conk out. But your superego knows you need to stay awake 
tonight to cram. 
Fortunately, you've got Vivarin. It helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So all your brainpower can focus on understanding the brain. 
If Freud had used Vivarin, maybe he could have understood the brain 
IC> 1990 SmithKlinc Beecham 
faster, too. Revive with VIVARIN: 
U~ as direcred. Contains caffeine cquivalcnr uf £Wo cup!!! ofcoff 

~----------------------~------~----­
p!11814 The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Varsity Cross Country and Track and Field: Beginning in the fall, women's track and field will be a varsity sport at Notre Dame. Any women interested in competing in track and/or cross country are asked to at­tend a brief meeting on Wednesday, May 2 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Any further questions. please call the Track Office at 239-6989. 
Notre Dame boxers: those who ordered videotapes, your tapes will be at the Huddle from 7-9 p.m. on Wed., May 2 under the boxing picture. 
Bengal Bout videotapes will be on sale today from 7-9 p.m. beneath the boxing picture in the Huddle.. Price is $8. 
Men's soccer final will be played today at 4:30 p.m. at Stepan Field. ISO will face Keenan Hall. 
Lax 
continued from page 16 
was marked by constant im­provement. We're in the posi­tion we wanted to be in right now, and we feel very good about this game. We have our fate in our hands coming into this last game, and we're ready for the challenge." 
In the lifetime series, Notre Dame owns a commanding 8-3 edge over Michigan State, with the Spartans' only wins coming which compiled an 8-7 overall record. 
Yet the Irish are actively planning to return last year's favor to the Spartans. Led on offense by Brian McHugh, Mike Sullivan, Mike Quigley, Dave Carey, Brian Mayglothling, Ed Lamb, Mike Sennet and a resurgent Brian Schirf, the Irish have the potential to keep 
in 1986, 1987 and 1989 in a 
series which dates back to 

Now you can go and have
1981. This fact coupled with Notre Dame's .7307 home win­your first DRINK. ning percentage in 10 years of home varsity play, give the Irish reason for optimism. 
However, the Spartans ~ dumped the Irish 9-7 in East Lansing last year, giving Michi­gan State the NCAA West re­
Love,
gional bid. Michigan State later fell to Adelphi in the first round of the tournament. Also, the 
Spartans have 24 lettermen back from last year's squad, 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
in high school I wasn't used to 
striking out. I get too frus­
trated when I go 0-for-4 and I 
let it affect me. lie (Murphy) 
said I'll have days like that, but 
that I'll have my good days too. 
I'm still not completely used to 
that." 
Jacobs bears the dimensions 
of a classic power hitter. The 6­
5, 245-pound designated hitter 
and occasional first baseman 
also moonlights as a tight end 
for Lou Holtz's football squad, 
a dual duty that he loves despite 
the tremendous time 
commitments. 
"It (two sports) is tough be­
rause jt's a lot of sports activi­ties," said Jacobs. "I love both sports so much that I can't give up either one of them. I've just got to make sacrifices to play them both, because it's a wor­thy cause. Twenty years from now I'll be able to look back at the fact that I've played two great sports." 
Although he is not looking to the future just yet, with another season of football and another entire campaign of baseball ahead of him still at Notre Dame, he does recognize that he would like to pursue a ca­reer in professional baseball. One of the weaknesses of his game right now is his batting average, which is currently .260 but has been climbing as of late. 
"I think I'm a better hitter than that (.260)," said Jacobs. "In the beginning of the season I got off to an inconsistent start, but I'm getting better. It's just not the numbers I'm used to getting. I'm trying to help the team, do the job and hit well." 
If Jacobs continues to im­prove, his coach sees great things for him in the years ahead. 
"He's got a tremendous fu­ture," said Murphy, "He has a quality that all professional clubs want, and that's power. That is why ticket prices go up, and the home run is one of the most exciting things in base­ball. People are going to have to pay a lot of money to get him, and he'll be a professional baseball player someday." 
the Spartan goalkeepers blood pressure soaring all afternoon. 
On defense, Notre Dame de­pends on goalies Tom Duane and Chris Parent to be the backbones of a stingy, hard­sticking defensive unit. The roving Irish defense is manned by Pete Gillin, Eamon McAnaney, Jeff Salamon, and Dave Barnard. 
Yet evt~n if the Irish fail to Spartans on May 12. rout the Spartans, the chance The NCAA selection commit­for a bid would still remain­tee will announce tournament provided that the Ohio State bids on May 13, with the first 
eould d ateh the round beginning on May 16. 
"alii.Grad ATTENTION: Students 
IIIII Professors Employees 
•furnished 
and unfurnished suites 

•flexible 
leases 

•washer 
&dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 


l')OQ ~US"' ·"""',.,.. Non \ourl"' ~ntl ln('h"'''"' .&olll\ 
2f9. 277. 3731 


5 different stxles available 
Send them now because we'll be closed during 
We also have a large selection of graduation cards b Rec cled Pa er Products 
Wednesday, May 2, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
4:20 p.m. l.eeture, "Possible Electromagnetic: l'ropertins of Nnutrinos and Implications for Solar Neutrinos," Dr. M.B. Voloshin, Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Physics Institute in Moscow, and Theoretical Physics Institute in Minneapolis. Hoom 118 Ninuwland Seinncn. Sponsornd by Dept. of Physics. 
8 p.m. Spring Chorale Concert. Church of Lorntto. Conducted by Nancy Menk. Sponsored by SMC Dept. of Music. 
Thursday 
12 p.m.Bmwn Bag, "From Transition to Consolidation: Is Them Hoom for Hope in Latin America?" Carina Perelli and .Juan Hi<tl. Pnitho, Sodedad dn Analisis Politieo, Monlividno, Uruguay. Hoom 101 l>neio. Srwnsornd by Kellogg Institute. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Hibs 
London Broil 
Chieknn Tntrazzini I lot Clwnsn Open Face Sub 
1 Adjust a clock 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Paddle's cousin 3 Wet blanket 4 Bacall musical 5 No-nos 
sA Walton 7 Respondent a Big spender 9 Forested 
plea 11 Sass 
12 Biblical verb ending 
14 They will be themselves 
20 Not quite 52 Favorites 53 Siouan group 54 Beginning for 
dynamic or space 55 Org. that backed 
GHW.B. 
56 Former NYC. skyline sign 59-deplume 60 Merino's mother 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Cr 1990 UntVtllll Press S nthcate 

~QIJ Cfo.IJG\-\T Tilt. 'ai>.LL fOR ~£. 'riRC>t-IG \tNI\! 
'«l\J Gel\ 0\JR OWN GU'i 0\JT.' 'ri\\f>..l A. 
ll'ri£EB! ~1\r>..T to. lE.R\(.! 
'ft\\f>..l ~ IOIOT! 

BILL WATTERSON 
\1£.CK, II '+lf>.S 
iCl\l MClR<l\11! 
~CiH\I~G, G\l~S. 
~\.\"'-\ '+(t.Rt '+11-1£\11 ~0\l'Rt. 
'iO'J 00\~G Il-l \\II Th\' 1'\1'\5\CJ.l 
1\IE. 00\VIEll>.': 
CO~I)\1\0N ll~ 
IT'5 f>.. \IIE.'N !<\£, ~()J CM-1... 
IM~IIolG! WlR£. UP 1\) BAr.' 
OOPS, I 
I>ROI'?ED T\.\t. CATC.\.1. IT \)()t.'St\'l 
(()\)~'\\ 1'\()~, 
RIG\\T:' 
ACROSS 
1 Mixer 5 Elevenses in London a Bogland 13 A Dodge City 
marshal 14 Animal shelter 15 D.C. doings 16 Stumble 17 Kimono sashes 18 Pizazz 19Apun is a­22Aswell 23 Newts 24 He created the 
Wizard ofOz 26 Vassal 50 Oct. stone 28 Puppy talk 52 A pun is an 32 They perform example of 
"Asleep in the 55 A lone star? 
Deep" 
57 "L'-c'est 34 Rosary segment moi" 
36 King, in Reims 58 Island goose 
37 A pun is the--61 Piece for eight 40 Steely Dan 
62 Lucky pros· album 
pector's find 41 Spill the beans 
631ncrease 
42 She lived at the 64 Old hat 
Plaza 65 Draft letters 
43 Twining plant stem 66"-Came Running": J.
45 April visitor Jones
47 Dig for pay dirt 48 Legal claim 
DOWN 


Sheep health classes 
21 Baseball's Hall 
24 City in central China 25 Nile dam 27Town near Salerno 29 U.S author Shaw 30 Composure 31 Locale 
32 Tell a secret 33 Music player 35 Turkish dishes 38 Long johns 39 Certain 
ornamentations 44 Puts on cloud 
nine 46 Wanderers 49Angry 51 Head 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


Sports
page 16 Wednesday, May 2, 1990 
DePaul gives Irish hard time 

By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team (32-15) will not soon for­get the DePaul Blue Demons (30-21). The Blue Demons are to the Irish what kryptonite is to Superman. After yesterday's action, the Irish still have not defeated them in two years, dropping the first game 5-1, while salvaging a 0-0 tie in the second game. 
The first game began in an ominous way, with DePaul leadoff batter Jenny Lelzynski smacking the second pitch of the game over the centerfield fence for a homerun off Irish starter Missy Linn. 
The Irish tied the score in the bottom of the third. Shortstop Ruth Kmak reached on an er­ror, then was sacrificed to sec­ond by Laurie Sommerlad. Rachel Crossen followed with a double to right, which the De­Paul rightfielder lost in the sun. That would be all of the Irish offense for the rest of the day. 
Versatile Jacobs leads busy Irish against Valpo tonight 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
No sage could have predicted the Notre Dame baseball sea­son thus far. 
This is not particularly be­cause of any injuries the team has sustained, nor any specific shortcomings of the team, nor because of the fact that the team is relatively inexperienced, nor because it has not beaten a top-20 team this year, nor be­cause the NCAA selection committee decreed that the MCC tournament winner would no longer receivP an automatic bid to the national tournament. 
It is just because disappoint­ing game cancellations and hec­tic schedules have made this season unpredictable. All these adversities, and the Irish are a respectable 34-1 0. 
''I'm happy that at 34-10 
Lax faces Mich. St. in search of bid 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team plans to bring home its first-ever NCAA Tournament bid this afternoon as it battles the Michigan State Spartans at 
3:30 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish, at 8-6, are fresh off a home victory over mid­western rival Ohio State, and are looking to give the Spartans similar treatment. Notre Dame's win over Ohio State, coupled with an earlier triumph over the Air Force Academy, has the Irish sitting in the driver's seat where tournament bids are concerned because an
• 
Irish win over Michigan State would guarantee Notre Dame's bid. 
"There's not much to be said at this point," explained Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. "During the year, we improved a lot as a team, and except for the match against Ohio Wes­leyan, our season as a whole 
see LAX I page 14 
people think that we're having an off-season," said Head Coach Pat Murphy. "It just gives credibility to this pro­gram. We've been having a tremendous year considering all the adversity we've encoun­tered." 
To counter oppressive Na­ture, the Irish have been scrambling to make up some rainouts. This was their inten­tion when they traveled to Chicago on Monday night for a doubleheader with Illinois­Chicago, having just played four games against Detroit on the road the previous two days. 
The Irish split with the Flames in offensive battles, winning 1 0-9 in the first game and losing 10-8 in the second. The topsy-turvy contests were shining examples of the type of unpredictable season Notre Dame has had. 

Frank Jacobs 
Today the battle-weary Irish host neighbor Valparaiso at Jake Kline Field starting at 2 
p.m. for a scheduled double­header. That will make for eight games in live days, and for the Irish very little is cer­tain despite their 46-17 overall edge versus the Crusaders. 
"If you look at what Val­paraiso has done this year, 

Notre Dame should be headed for post-season play 1t Brian McHugh and the rest of the Irish lacrosse team can defeat Michigan State this afternoon. 
DePaul broke the game open in the fifth, scoring three runs. After a lead off single by Tina Kosey and a sacrifice, Lelzynski reached on an error putting runners at first and third. De­Paul then executed the double steal to perfection, breaking the tie. The Blue Demons then followed with an infield hit and a double to plate two more runs. They added an insurance run in the sixth on a successful suicide squeeze to make the fi­nal score 5-1. 
Linn pitched fairly well in the defeat, allowing only 2 earned runs while striking out six, but her record dropped to 12-7. 
"It was tough all around, the defense was strong, but they hit it hard at people and forced mistakes. We hit it hard at them, but they didn't make any mistakes," said Linn. 
The second game proved to be an old fashioned pitching duel between NO's freshman Staci Alford and the Demons' Anne Cooley. Both pitchers held the opposing teams offense scoreless through 11 innings. 
The game ended in a 0-0 tie and had to be called as a result of darkness. 
The only chance for a run oc­curred in the DePaul ninth, when Irish centerfielder Rachel Crossen threw a strike to catcher Amy Folsom to cut down the Demons' Kelly Ka­vanaugh, who represented the go ahead run. The Irish could only manage minor threats against Cooley. 
Alford yielded 10 hits, while striking out five and walking none. She did not feel it was her best pitching performance, which is not surprising since she threw a no-hitter and won 
the  MCC  championship  game  
earlier this year.  
"Your  never  satisfied  when  

you have a scoreless game, but Staci pitched extremely well," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. "DePaul is one of the better teams in the midwest. We not quite at their level yet. but we've played them tough today and for four games." 
they're as good as a lot of other teams on our schedule," said Murphy. "They've beaten Purdue, Indiana and Indiana State, so they're a very credible club. And right now the thing we're worried about is keeping our players healthy and getting our players to classes, but we'll put nine guys on the field and our team knows how to win." 
Despite all the uncertainties, the team itself has its share of dependable veterans who must bear some of the weight of the rollercoaster season and per­form their roles to keep some semblance of team consistency. 
Junior Frank Jacobs is one such player. 
Jacobs is the traditional power hitter on the team, filling one of the oldest and most ex­citing roles a baseball team re­quires. lie will not lead the team in batting average or stolen bases, but he will bn in the running in such categories at home runs, RB!s and strike­outs. 
"That's a big change that coach Murphy warned me about," said Jacobs. "lie told me that my role was not to be a .400 hitter, because that wasn't what he wanted from me. lie said my role was to be a power hitter. lie said it would comn, that J'll hit thn homn runs but I'll also strike out." 
Both predictions by Murphy havn come to pass, with Jacobs leading the team with six homn runs and :~6 HBis, but also leading the team with 33 strikeouts. 
"The strikeouts are going to come, and that's just baseball." said Jacobs. "That has been a big point to get used to because 
see BASEBALL I page 14 
Remember Sir Walter when praising tennis 
When Notre Dame tennis is men­tioned to sports fans, our media­soaked brains scan our memories and emerge with a picture of King David, or David DiLucia, the No. 26 tennis player in the nation. He is the cream of the Notre Dame tennis crop, a sophomore and already a mainstay at the No. 1 singles posi­tion. 
But this fixation is not completely fair, for we are forgetting the other five players on the team whose per­formances are every bit as important 
l 

Scott Brutocao 
Irish Items 
as King David's. What about Sir Walter, also known as se­nior Walter Dolhare, the No. 2 singles player and team cap­tain? 
Although he may not be the King of Notre Dame tennis, he has been knighted, and his story is probably the most color­ful on the court. Born and raised in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Dolhare came to America in search of a first-rate education and competitive tennis, a combination he could find nowhere else in the world. 
"I wanted an education in America, but I also wanted to keep playing tennis, and you can't go to college and play competitive tennis except in America," said Dolhare. "You certainly can't in Argentina, in Europe or in any other place that I know." 
So Sir Walter packed his bags, landed in America and wound up at Austin Peay in Tennessee, where he got his wish of getting a college education and playing intense tennis. After he racked up a 54-26 record in two years at Peay, he transferred to Notre Dame in the hopes of acquiring a supe­
see DOLHARE I page 13 
