VOL. XXIII NO. 34 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

'----------------------------------------1 that will bring absolute joy." To illustrate this point, Kil­
bourne showed an advertise-
COnfUses Congressiona I Democrats ~ne;etdi:;;'~i~hgl~sa:~rr~:e~~s~~! 
WASIIINCTON (AI') -Confu­sion over President Bush's posi­tion on higher taxes slowed eongressional efforts Wednes­day to start work in earnest on a nnw budget agrnement. 
Bush showed no inclination to elarify matters, saying, "Let Congrr.ss elear it up." and threatening to shut down the government again if he doesn't gnt an aeceptahln deal. 
Congressional Democrats complained that an apparent Bush rejection of higher taxes on tlw wnalthiest Americans ­a revnrsal of thn position he took at his news eonference Tunsday -would make it tougher to forge a budget r,om­promise. 
But thnre was no shortage of options, as both Republieans and Democrats began floating new versions of tax and spend­ing plans on Capitol Hill. 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., and other law­makers who met with the pres­ident Tuesday night said he had not ruled out the tax boost at that private meeting, as re­ported by Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore. 
White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater told reporters that Bush "listened to" the GOP lawmakers rather than stating a position. 
Bush, on a campaign trip in the South, was asked repeatedly about the matter, but turned away the questions with wisecracks. 
He was asked as he jogged during a break in St. Peters­burg, Fla.. if he would care to clear up the confusion. 
'Confusion?" he responded. 
Was he giving up on his long­sought capital gains tax rate cut, the item the Democrats supposedly were to trade for his support of higher income taxes on rich people? 
"Read my hips," he said, pointing, as he jogged by. Could he clear up his posi­
tion? 
"Let Congress clear it up." 
At a fundraising reception in Atlanta, Bush said he vetoed the temporary spending bill last weekend, shutting down the 
see BUSH I page 4 
Events to focus on alcohol abuse 
By CORINNE PAVLIS 
Saint Mary's Editor 
WllllnesSMC hopes to "raise the student consciousness eon­eerning alcohol abuse on col­lege campuses." said Well­nesSMC director Sue Medley. 
Part of this effort includes a 
spench by Mark Bambek. pro­
fessor of chemistry at Saint 
Mary's, who will address the 
community on the effects of al­
cohol. 
The lecture is part of a series sponsored by WellnnsSMC. the Saint Mary's College wellness program. The organization will sponsor evnnts over the next two weeks in recognition of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Medley also hopes the pro­grams will present "educational information and some positive alternatives to alcohol consumption." 
The lecture, "Chemical Ef­feets of Alcohol." will be given LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's campus on friday. The event will be preceded by a "Mocktail Hour" at 6 p.m. The event is co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's residence life staff. 
WellnesSMC will also be re­leasing the results of a study conducted on Saint Mary's campus last Spring. The study involved a survey of student use of alcohol and drugs. 
Future events include a tail­gate party before the Air Force game. Beginning at 8:30 a.m., the tailgater will be held on the main avenue leading to Saint Mary's. 
Immediately following the game, a pig roast will take place, co-sponsored by McCan­dless Hall, in front of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. Tickets for the pug roast are priced at $5 per person and are available at the McCandless parietals desk. 
On Oct. 15, a student panel discussion entitled "You and Your Lifestyles: Choices at Saint Mary's College" will be held at 8 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
On Oct. 19, a happy hour, open to all Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty, staff, adminis­trators, and guests, will be held in the Haggar College Center parlor from 4 to 6 p.m. 
In addition, WellnesSMC is S(J.-:"~"ring "Oktoberfest" in conjunction with several local eating and drinking establish­ments. Bracelets will be pro­vided for students who do not wish to drink alcohol while visiting these bars and restau­rants. 
Students wearing the bracelets will receive free soda from servers at the establish­ments during the week of Oct. 15-20. 
Also during the week, Well­nesSMC student members will tie red ribbons on car an­tennas to remind drivers to drink responsibly and to dis­courage driving while under the influence. 
Bracelets, a lists of partici­pating "Oktoberfest" estab­lishments. and red ribbons will be available outside Haggar College Center daily from 11 a.m. -1 p.m., beginning Oct. 15. 
Alcohol education materials and information on nutrition breaks will also be available throughout the week. For more information, contact the WellnesSMC center at 284­5546. Unless indicated, all events are open to students free of charge. 
Kilbourne says alcohol ads promoting a myth 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Jean Kilbourne, a member of the Board of Directors of the National Council on Alcoholism and an internationally recog­nized media critic, told her au­dience last night, "America has a drug problem," and "Alcohol is the nation's number one drug." 
Her lecture. entitled "Under the Influence," focused on the effect the advertising industry has on the consumption of al­cohol in America. "Alcohol is one of the most heavily adver­tised products in our society," she said. 
She compared the advertise­ments to a myth. "All advertis­ing is essentially myth making; (the advertisers] link alcohol with everything alcoholism de­stroys ... The primary fantasy is that alcohol is a magic potion 
said alcohol aetually destroys dreams. but the industry does not show this side of drinking. 
"Again and again we're told it will make us successful." 
The ads also suggest that al­cohol will make us sexy, in­crease sexual function and is linked with risky behavior. Kil­bourne said, "Shakespeare said it best; drink 'provokes the de­sire, but it takes away the per-formance'." 

She also said the alcohol in­dustry attempts to convince people that excessive drinking is normal. She used Michelob to make her point. Over the pjlst ten years the Michelob slogan have changed four times. First, they claimed, "Holidays were made for Michelob." Next, "Weekends were made for Michelob," and eventually they told eon sum ers to "Put a little weekend in your week." Now Michelob is telling consumers that "The night belongs to Michelob." 
According to Kilbourne. this change in slogan mirrors alco­holic progression; a person starts out as a casual drinker and eventually alcohol con­sumption becomes an every day event. She told the audience, "Image how different it would be if (the slogan) was the night belonged to alcohol." 
Kilbourne also said the alco­hol industry "creates a climate ..,of violence." 
She further stated that, "Women's bodies are dehuman­ized, no where more so than al­cohol ads. One-half of all cases of rape and violence is alcohol related." Statistically. a reported 55 percent of all arrests have some link with alcohol. 
Kilbourne said the three pur­poses of advertising are to re­cruit new users, increase the 
see ADS I page 4 
Sophomore Jennifer Fahey donates blood for the first time in the Saint Mary's Blood Drive sponsored by the American Red Cross. 

First Blood 
The Observer 1 Marguerite Schropp 

0 ~~~------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~~eN~er~_____________________________T_h~u~rs~d~ay,October11, 1990
e_a e 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Homosexuals deserve our tolerance 
The mere mention of the recent resolu­tion passed by the Student Senate and the Graduate Student Union concerning the recognition of Na­tional Coming Out 
Day draws a negative 
Alison Cocks 
response from most students faster than Editor-in-Chief 
they can say "homo­phobia." 
Homophobia is the most dangerous pho­bia ailing Notre Dame students today. Many of those who find the idea of a homosexual lifestyle unappealing also choose to feel re­pulsed by homosexuals themselves. 
Right or wrong, they are entitled to their feelings. But when they allow those feelings to take the form of public and private ha­rassment, and· when they deliberately ostra­cize some students because they are differ­ent, it is time to consider whether such prejudices should be fostered in the com­munity. 
I admire the people who will openly come to terms with their sexuality today. It takes guts. I wish I didn't have to say that about them, because it is alarming that it requires so much courage to openly defy the norm on this campus. 
Notre Dame prides itself on its 'family' atmosphere and 'Christian' community. Yet this same community encourages unhealthy attitudes toward homosexuals. Recognizing National Coming Out Day is a necessary gesture from the students if these negative 
·attitudes are to be eliminated from campus. 
It is unrealistic for the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to expect voluntary University recognition of their group. I think they realize that. 
It is not unrealistic for them to expect to 
be treated with the same respect as their heterosexual counterparts. This is what they have asked of the student body through the resolution. The Senate and GSU deserve praise for its open-mindedness. It's a pity the Hall Presidents' Council could not follow suit. 
These people have chosen simply to admit that their sexual preferences differ from the accepted norm, not that they engage in ho­mosexual activities. The Notre Dame 'family' is not violating its mission state­ment or Church doctrines by acknowledging that some of its members are different. 
I urge everyone on this campus to be tol­
erant today. All of you have endured trau­
matic periods in your lives. 
For these people, coming to terms with 
their sexuality is one of the most difficult 
tasks they will ever face. Remember thos~ 
times instead of turning your back on these 
people because you don't like homosexual­
ity. 
Accept them, even if you can't empathize 
with them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, October 11. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
70 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © ~' ~ [Til [3 rn 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Arts and Letters Career Day is being held today from 12 -4 p.m. in lower level of Center for Continuing Education. Representatives from 30 career ar­eas are in attendance to answer any questions which sophomores, juniors and seniors have and to provide lit­erature for students to take with them. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-to-Life will have a meeting tonight at 8:45 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns auditorium. Father Norman Weslin from the "Victim Souls for the Unborn Christ Child" is the guest speaker. 
Saint Mary's Founder's Day Celebration continues tonight with a special dinner/slide show at the dining hall. There will also be a showing of "The Belles of Saint Mary's" at 9 p.m. in Carwell, Auditorium. 
An open house will be held at Riedinger Alumnae House today from 3:30 -5 p.m. 
WORLD 
Garry Kasparov, the highest-rated player in chess history, had the white pieces and the slight advantage of the first move Wednesday at the resumption of his world championship defense against Anatoly Karpov. Kasparov, 27, known for his bold, attacking style, and Karpov, 39, who favors methodical, defense-minded strategies, opened their long-awaited match Monday night. After five hours and 30 moves apiece, their first game ended in a draw. Analysts said the turning point of Monday night's game was Kasparov's 19th move; attacking Karpov's white rook with his bishop."Karpov played rather list­lessly in the opening, but Kasparov pressed too hard and nearly let [the game] get away," said grandmaster Joel 
Benjamin of New York. 
INDIANA 
Two days after lawmakers put to­gether a compromise plan to expand the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, a Senate committee's action threatened to delay or kill the legislation. The compromise had been finalized Monday by Republican Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Coats, and Rep. Peter Visclosky, D-Merrillville, who were confident it would be signed by President Bush before Congress adjourned for the year. But, in an unexpected twist, the Senate Energy and Nat­ural Resources Committee adjourned without vot­ing on the legislation Wednesday morning. The panel abandoned debate after its senior Republi­can, James McClure of Idaho, objected to the es­timated cost of $27 million to buy and beautify about 1,300 new acres for Indiana's only national park. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index  
164.97  .. 2.44  
S&P Composite 300..39  ~  4.71  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,407.92 .. 37.62 
Precious Metals 
Gold + $4.80 to $389.70/oz. Silver+ 7.7¢ to $4.593/oz. 
A documentary on "Medjugorje" will be shown in Room 207 of the Architecture Building at 9 p.m. The film will depict the daily appearances and messages of the Virgin Mary to the six children in the village of Medjugorje, Yugoslavia. 
In commemoration of National Coming Out Day, a prayer service focusing on the dignity and rights of all people will take place today at 9 p.m. at the Grotto. Fa­ther David Burrell will be presiding. 
Applications for the Extern Program for all SARG members are now past due. Friday will be the last day they will be accepted. No exceptions. 
LBBS will conduct a seminar on starting your own business at 6:45 p.m. in Room 180 of Nieuwland Science Hall. ' 
Yitzhak Shamir's government in Israel urged Jews to gather at the Wailing Wall at the end of the reli­gious festival of Sukkot on Thursday in a show of defiance of the Arab ston­ing attack that precipitated the riot of Temple Mount. Israel on Wednesday appointed a panel headed by a former spy chief to investigate the killing of 

19 Palestinians in Monday's bloodbath. It also rejected 
U.S. charges that police used excessive force. To block further violence, the army kept more than a million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip confmed to their homes by curfew. 
Yesterday's high: 46 
Yesterday's low: 41 
Nation's high: 99 (Monrovia, Calif.) Nation's low: 1 6 (Gunnison, Calif.) 
Forecast: 
Becoming partly sunny 
during the afternoon with 
highs in the upper 50s. 
Fair and cool tonight with 
lows around 40. Increas­
ing cloudiness tomorrow 
with a 30 percent chance 
of showers. Highs around 
60. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ALMANAC On October 11 : 
eln 1776: American forces led by Gen. Benedict Arnold suffered heavy losses, but managed to stall the British at the first naval battle of Lake Champlain during the American Revolution. 
eln 1932: The first political telecast in the U.S. took place as the Democratic National Committee sponsored a program from a CBS television studio in New York. 
eln 1962: Pope John the XXIII convened the first session of the Roman Catholic Church's 21st Ecumenical Council, also known as Vatican II. 
e Ten years ago: Soviet cosmonauts Leonid Popov and Valery Ryumin returned to Earth after completing six months in space aboard a Salyut space station. 
News 
L. PeterYob Kevaleen Ryan 
Accent Shonda Wilson Cristina Ortiz 
Sports Dave Dieteman Production Cheryl Moser Kelly Lynch 
Systems Cesar Capella Fritz Valsaint 
Viewpoint DaveCerto Cheryl Moser Kelly Lynch 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



------------------~------------------------------------------~------~--~--------~---------------------~---------------­
Thursday, October 11, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Bishops tout peace for N. Ireland 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
Peace is possible in Northern Ireland if the complexity of the 
issues  are  addressed,  said  
Hishops  Edward  Daly  and  
James Mehaffey.  

"My message is one of hope," said Mehaffny, the Anglican bishop of Derry and Haphoe, Northern Ireland. Mehaffey and Daly, the Catholic bishop of Derry. are travelling together across the U.S. giving talks on the situation in Northern Ire­land. 
The two bishops spoke Wednesday at a panni discus­sion as part of the World Awareness Series: Peace in Ire­land. Mehaffey said that two minist~1rs from both sides of the conflict uniting for peace would have been unheard of ten or 12 years ago. 
"We do a kind of duet," Me­haffey said. "In our community at horne everybody knows that Mehaffey and Daly are friends and some don't like it, but some 
..
d0. 
llesolving the conflict will have to be comprehensive, the bishops said. They stressed that the tension is not merely the result of religious differences. 
"Many people around the world regard the conflict in Northern Ireland as some sort of weird anachronistic, religious war -a throw-back to the Middle Ages," Daly said. "The belief that this problem is only a religious one is an over­simplification of the issue." 
Economic, political, religious and social aspects of the prob­lem need to be dealt with, Me­haffey said. 
"The tensions and conflict are the result of a complex web of history, culture, social and reli­gious aspects," said Mehaffey. "The strands are woven to­gether to form the situation in Northern Ireland." 
History is seen by both bish­ops as a stumbling block in the resolution of the problems. It is an obsession of the Irish, they added. 
"Ilistory is a burden on our back," Mehaffey said. "It should be an inspiration, but. instead, it is a big stick we use to beat the other side with." 
Many Irish people still see the supporters of the British as colonizers. said Daly. This is something which both sides need to be aware of, he said. 
"In Ireland, too many people feel threatened by differences," said Daly. "I only wish we could come to see that both groups have a richness." 
The Anglo-Irish Agreement, signed by both Britain and the Republic of Ireland in 1985, is a sign of hope, the bishops agreed. It recognizes the ri'ghts of both sides to seed fulfillment of their goals while rejecting all violent methods. 
Regular meetings between the two countries were also estab­lished with the creation of an inter-governmental conference. "Britain and the Republic of Ireland have shown strong support for the agreement since 1985 and this is a good sign," said Mehaffey. 
The fact that political deci­sions about Northern Ireland are still made in England does not please Mehaffey, he said. Greater cooperation could lead to more respect, he said. 
"Fear is often at the heart of problems in Northern Ireland," Mehaffey said. "Acts of violence increase this distrust," Daly added. 
Bloody Sunday propelled Daly into the international spotlight on January 30, 1972. He was photographed with many of the victims of the violent demon­stration. 
"War is glorified by a lot of people for their own interest," said Daly. He warned, however, that "war is obscene." 
Some of the worst hate-mail that Daly has ever read comes from the United States, he said. It is time that people moved away from the old romantic ideas concerning the English­Irish conflict, he added. 
"My father was in the old IRA (Irish Republican Army) and I was very proud of that," he said. "However, I cannot identify with today's IRA." 
Violence does not solve prob­lems, Daly said. One way that Americans can help the situa­tion is by investing in the region and by forming stronger ties to universities in the area. 
"Your great nation and ours should be rededicated to the American dream," said Daly. "I mean this in an international sense." 

University offers free computer training to interested NO students 
By MEG SHUFF 
News Writer 
Tho problem: you have a pa­per due the next day and you havn no due how to use a com­puter, so you panic and end up having to make excuses to your professor. 
The solution: attend a com­puter training class offered by the Ollice of University Comput­ing. 
Thn classes, which began on Oct. I, will run through Friday. They offer free instruction to Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students who have never used a computer for word processing. 
"Attending this class well be­fore a paper is due will save students a lot of time and frus­tration during the crunch," said Dave Mastic, training specialist and manager of the program. "When a paper is duo, the last thing a student has to worry about is trying to learn how to use a computer." 
The current class series fo­cuses on the basics of using a computer for writing a paper. The instruction includes the use 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
AVN "R'JIJH" /JAUNT 
THE BEST!! 
MOM,DAD, BETH & CHRIS 
The most shocking 
of Microsoft Word 4.0 on the Macintosh computers and Word Perfect 5.1 on the IBM/Zenith (DOS) computers. 
The attendance in the classes thus far has been good, said Mastic. "The participation is about what I expected; we have been filling about half of our capacity each night." 
The students have enjoyed the classes and found them to be extremely useful," he added. 
The current series ends on Friday, but if students are in-
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PR([;RAMe 
~~ 
VAmerican Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
thing about <®

NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR THE MENTALLY ILL
mentafillness is 
how little people To understand more, calll-800-950-NAMI.
understandIt. 
terested in attending one of the classes they should register in person at the Information Re­source Center (IRC) or by calling 239-8111. All classes are taught in room 248 of the Hesburgh Library from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
At the present time it is uncertain whether classes will be offered again after Fall Break. This information will be available when students return at the end of October at the JRC in Room 111 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Build­ing. 
Classes for the spring semester are also currently be­ing discussed. "It seems that most students are interested in word processing, so those classes will be offered again in the spring," said Mastic. In addition to the word processing classes, there may also be classes offered that deal with other aspects of the computer next semestP.r. 
Information regarding spring semester offerings will be available in the IHC after the Christmas Break. 
SECURITY BEAT 
Monday, Oct. 8 
5;55 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of computer parts from Fitzpatrick Hall sometime be­tween Oct. 3 and Oct. 5. 
7:52 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to a several doors in Keenan Hall, 
Tuesday, Oct. 9 
2:45p.m. A P.W. resident reported losing her watch somewhere between Nieuwland Science Hall and the Hes· burgh Library. 
5 p.m. A Farley resident reported injuries sustained from a dog bite sustained while she was jogging off­campus. 
Wednesday, Oct. 10 
9 a.m. An Indiana resident re­ported the attempted theft of her purse from the coat hooks on the west wall of the Loftus Center track. 
10:35 a.m. A Zahm resident re· ported the theft of his bookbag from a table on the second floor of the Hes· burgh library. 
11 a.m. A faculty member reported an Illegal entry into his office in Cush­ing Hall. No loss was discovered. 
~®IPOO®IDCIDlliiE~~ 
THIS IS THE OPPORUNITY YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR! 
WE ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEARCHING FOR A CHALLENGIN OPPORUNITY AND WHO WOULD LIKE TO GET INVOLVED IN THE EXCITEMENT OF JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON FOR JPW-APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES. 
DEADLINE:OCTOBER 12. 1990 


page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1990 
up with the following quote seen on a T-shirt: "I don't have a drinking problem. I drink. I get continued from page 1 drunk. I fall down. No problem." 
Ads Stanford U. to allow gay, lesbian 
students to share campus housing
consumption ot a certain prod­She said this quote is a "result 

IACCOUNTING SENIORS I 
PLANNING TO TAKE THE MAY 1991 CPA EXAM ARE INVITED TO ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING TO DISCUSS 
THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM 
uct. and to assist consumers who are chosing among com­peting brands. 
The alcohol and tobacco in­dustries have denied they are advertising for these purposes, she said. They claim they are only trying to get people to switch brands. She refuted this assertion and explained how advertisers target women, mi­norities, and young people. Kil­bourne said these advertise­ments "stress freedom, inde­pendence, power, and control." Actually, alcohol takes these things away. 
The ads aimed at young women try to convince them that alcohol will increase their independence, but they fail to show that "women suffer greater physiological damage" than men. She also said women are more prone to be cross-ad­dicted (taking prescription drugs) and stigmatized. Fur­thermore, alcohol consumption during pregnancy is the primary cause of birth defects. 
Kilbourne gave a list of the signs of an alcoholic. They in­clude: missing classes or work, experiencing blackouts, changes in a person's tolerance to alcohol and defensiveness about drinking. She indicated that a high tolerance for alcohol in a young person is a symptom of alcoholism and urged anyone with a drinking problem to seek help through Alcoholic Anonymous or the University Counseling Center. 
She said America's attitude about drinking can be summed 
,-------------~;.. Lloyd Bentsen, generally in line with the tax trade Bush en­dorsed at his news conference. 
American Heart ft "I had the deal all worked out until the president changed his
Association ~ 
position on taxes," said Bentsen. 
~----------­
I 
I 
1./ 
of cultural conditioning. 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) ­Problem drinking is profitable Unmarried couples, including
for the industry and is 
lesbians and gay men, will be
presented as normal ... [we 
allowed to share housingthink it is] fine to get drunk as formerly reserved for marriedlong as you don't get behind the students at Stanford Universitywheel of a car." 
under a new policy. Kilbourne would like to see The university Board of counter-advertising. For every Trustees decision announced three beer commercials, she Tuesday gives same-sex and would like to see one ad that unmarried couples the same shows the other side of exces-rights as legally married students. sive drinking. She also sug-It entitles "domestic partners" of gested that the excise tax on students to housing and alcohol be raised to pay for the university services such as access counter-advertising in order to · to library and athletic facilities. reduce alcohol consumption. Norm Robinson, Stanford's 
acting dean of student affairs, 
said the policy would preventKilbourne said the alcohol students from having to chooseadvertisers are "selling attitudes between Stanford and their love about alcohol and life." We need interest.
to change the change the norms "The change also affirmsand tell people it is okay not to 
Stanford's policy of not dis­
drink or it is okay be a light criminating against students on adrinker. but it is not okay to variety of factors, includingabuse alcohol. she said. 
sexual orientation," Robinson 
She said denial is the chief barrier to combatting alco­holism and reducing alcohol 
Bush
consumption. In her summa­tion, she stressed the impor­continued from page 1 tance of "creat[ingl a society and government, to keep the pres­a world people want to live in, sure on Congress that otherwise not escape from." would have gone home. 
A videotape of the lecture is The bill that eventually passed available in the Office of Alcohol expires Oct. 19. "The clock is and Drug Education. If any running and it's going to keep group is interested in viewing on running and I'll veto it again the tape, they should contact if we don't get a satisfactory Carolyn Kelly at 239-7970. A deal," Bush said. handout entitled "Alcohol Awareness Resources" is also The Senate Finance Commit­available by writing: Jean Kil­tee indefinitely postponed a bourne, 51 Church Street meeting at which it was to dis­Boston, Massachusetts 02116. cuss a budget package written 
by its chairman. Texas Demo­

COMMUNICATION & THEATRE
VJ 
~ PRESENTS 
~ 
(/') 
2 ~ ;w~~
0 BY EURIPIDES 
0 ~ 
WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
DIRECTOR REGINALD BAIN 
~ 
SET & LIGHTS KEVIN DREYER 
(/') 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
~ 
STAGE MANAGER
0'-­
l TONY Bosco 
0 
TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SEN CIT, WED THU & SUN
0'-­
AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT0'--LAFORTUNETICKETOFFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA 
~ 
ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY, OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM WED., OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN .. OCT. 14 3:10PM 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS Room 137 Hayes-Healy 
239-5285 

(MA, PhD) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues. 
AREA CONCENTRATIONS: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Interna­tiona! relations, Inter­american relations, inter­national business man­agement, comparative development, strategic and national security studies. 
Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by February 15. 
GRADUXI'E SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL S11JDIFS 
UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI PO. BOX 248123 CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 

said in a statement. significant victory, others said 
"This is a significant stepping there are still several areas where stone in recognizing the legiti­Stanford continues to macy of all relationships," said discriminate against homosex­Steven Petrow, director of public uals, despite a 4-year-old policy affairs for National Gay Rights prohibiting the practice. Advocates, a San Francisco-based David Bradfute, a graduate 
group that works for the equal student in biological sciences, treatment of homosexual couples. said gay and lesbian partnersUnder the domestic partners should be covered under Stan­policy, students must state they ford's health insurance policy. 
are in an "established long-term Partners now may use the stu­domestic partnership with a dent health clinic, but must paymutual commitment similar to for treatment. 
that of marriage ... and share the necessities of life and 
Bradfute also wants the new responsibility for their common rights extended to faculty and welfare." staff, who aren't included in the Stanford officials previously policy change. decided on granting such benefits case by case. In the last two years, Gay activists also want Stan­
Stanford has permitted two ford to sever ties with the FBI, the homosexual couples to live CIA and the Reserve Officers' together at a university family Training Corps, all of which 
housing complex. recruit students on campus but Although the ruling was hailed refuse to enlist gay men or by gay rights advocates as a lesbians. 
American Heart ft Association V' 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,1 

~ PARE'\JT'S I 
~ F.. O~TBALL ~ ~ WI;:EKEND TOP TEN REASONS ~ ~ TO ENJOY PARENTS WEEKEND ~ ~ OCT. 12-14: ~ ~ 10. Concession stands I I 9. Pep Rally ~ ~ 8. Shennanigans Performance I ~ 7. Glee Club/Stud. Government Dessert ~ 1 Reception 1 
1 
6. The Band of the FIGHTIN' IRISH I ~ 5. Alumni Assoc. Post Game Party ~ 

1 
4. ND Student Players' "Do Black Patent I ~ Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?" ~ 

3. Casino Night 1

1 
2. Notre Dame vs. Air Force I ~ 1. GOODOL'MOMANDDAD!!! ~ 't Pick Up a Complete Schedule of Events at the 1i LaFortune Information Desk ~ NOTRE DAME SHIRTS ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH:


1
T"" ~ 
" :z: THE BOOKSTORE GOLF PRO SHOP 1 ~ vs MIAMI ;; TENNIS PRO SHOP I " -1 JACC HOCKEY PRO SHOP I
I OCTOBER 20 1990 '-" LaFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK I 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,/ 

STUDENTDISCOUNTAVAILABLE 
Registration must be received by October 19 

By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
The conventional wisdom 
that there are limited 
employment opporunities for 
liberal arts graduates will be 
challenged this week by the 
twelfth annual Arts and 
Letters Career Day. 
The Career Day. sponsored 
by Notre Dame's Career and 
Placement Services office, is 
aimed at acquainting 
students in Arts and Letters 
with the various career 
options they might consider 
upon graduating. 
Career Day will be held 
today from noon to 4 p.m. in 
the Center for Continuing 
Edueation (CCE). Students 
from all colleges will be wel­
come. 
Representatives from 
more than thirty industries 
will have booths at this 
"career fair." They will provide interested students with information they may find helpful in their explo­ration of career possibilities. Among the industries repre­sented will be: advertising, fi­nancial services. journalism, personnel management, pub­lishing, and public relations. 
"Attending Career Day is a great way for students to ob­tain a lot of career information in a short amount of time," ac­cording to Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Services. 
Reynolds said Career Day would be beneficial for both seniors and underclassmen. "It's important for sophomores and juniors to begin searching for career information as soon as possible" said Reynolds, "so they can make their career de­cision making easier down the road." 
-----~--------------­
The Observer eage 5 
By SARAH VOIGT 
News Writer 
PMS, a disorder defined by Karen Lesch as, "a cluster of symptoms that appears in a woman's cycle between ovula­tion and the start of the men­strual flow" is a fact. 
Lesch, a nurse practitioner who specializes in gynecology and obstetrics, related some surprising news about Premen­strual Syndrome (PMS) in a lec­ture at Notre Dame yesterday. 
Seventy to ninety percent of women experience premen­strual symptoms to some degree or another at some time in their lives, said Lesch. Between five and ten percent of this group suffer from severe PMS that impairs their ability to function. 
The extent and the duration of physical, emotional, and psychological symptoms of PMS vary from woman to woman, said Lesch. "I've found that the most common complaint from PMS sufferers has been the feelingofbeingoutofcontrol." 
Lesch said that, partly due to these problematic symptoms, no 
one knows for sure what causes 
PMS. 
She said that physicians often dismiss PMS as fiction because of the lack of medical knowledge about the syndrome. "In this high tech age it is often difficult for doctors to deal with the ignorance about PMS." 
Some of the inconclusive and often contradictory theories about the causes of PMS in­clude: 
• 
Ovarian disfunction in which the ovary does not product the correct levels of estrogen and progesterone hormones; 

• 
Hormone and fluid imbal­ance; 

• Poor nutrition; 

• 
The release of prostaglandins, short distance chemical messages that send pain messages to the uterus; 

• Lack of sleep and exercise; 

• 
Psychological or cultural problems. 


Lesch refuted the theory that PMS is a product of "neurotic, over-educated women who use it as an excuse for not being able to be all things to all peo­ple." 
She cited studies from all over the world that have affirmed the universal scope of the syndrome. 
The existence of one specific drug that will cure the PMS symptoms is also a fiction. She listed vitamin E and B complex, motrin, and other common over the counter aspirins and mild diuretics as drugs that help some women some of the time. 
Lesch personally advocates a more holistic approach to treatment of symptoms. She suggests a high carbohydrate diet, small frequent meals, and the elimination of caffeine, al­cohol, tobacco, and sugary, salty foods from the diet. 
"From all of women I have observed, one of the only defi­nite things I can say is that caf­feine makes PMS worse." She asks PMS sufferers to try to keep a high self esteem and a sense of humor. 
To aid in the latter she quoted a friend who claims, "There is no such thing as PMS. Women are just too nice the rest of the month." 
GSU recognizes Coming-Out Day 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Council passed a resolution recognizing National Coming-Out Day last night in their second meeting of the academic year, with a vote of 19 for, sev·en against, and three abstaining. 
Secretary Karen Slawner in­troduced the resolution by say­ing, "It was suggested at the last officers meeting that the Graduate Student Council (GSC) in some way recognize National Coming-Out Day. We recognize that there are almost as many views on homosexuality as there are individuals in this room. But, we want to use this opportunity to condemn any discrimination against gays and lesbians on this campus." 
Mike Clinton, a member of the GSC, supported the passage of the resolution by saying, "I don't think this resolution is really directed against university 
the GSU, presided at this meet­ing of the Graduate Student Council. 
The GSC also devoted time to discussing fundraising efforts for Zhenge-de Wang, a graduate student injured in a hit-and-run accident last spring. 
Executive Vice-President Edna Hidekel, chairperson of the ad hoc committee on fundraising, reported that the GSU had raised over seven hundred dollars for this cause at last weekend's concession stand. "This amount is going directly to Zhenge-de from the GSU," she said. 
According to Hidekel, another concession stand, selling shirts, will be operated at the Century Center on the next two week­ends, during the welcoming mixers for Notre Dame and Air Force and Miami fans, respec­tively. 
Also on the agenda, the GSC approved the purchase of a $2,200 laserwriter for use in the Graduate Student Union (GSU) office. 
According to Vice-Presi­dent/Treasurer Catharine Hawes, financing this purchase will not significantly diminish the GSU budget because of money left over from last spring. 
"We have money left over that was not spent last year. Toward the end of last year the graduate school found out that there were about two hundred more of us than they thought," she said. 
Reports were presented to the GSC by chairpersons of the GSU standing committees. 
Social Officer Reynold Nesiba reminded members of the Grad Club get-togethers on Fridays at the Alumni/Senior Club or Wilson Commons. He also told of plans to host a Halloween party for the children of gradu­ate students and faculty, a Hal­loween party for graduate stu­dents themselves, a viewing of 

the Tennessee game  at  the  
Alumni/Senior Club,  and  a  
Christmas party.  

Tom D'Andrea, chair of the intellectual committee described plans for bringing speakers on curriculum reform to campus, for hosting a forum in which individuals discuss the contribution they feel their spe­cialty area makes to the whole university, and for sponsoring a seminar on faith and intellectual life with the topic of pluralism, truth, and authority. 
Srini Sudramanian, chair of the International Graduate Student committee, said there will be monthly talks on issues of international importance; the first of these talks will be in November on the Gulf Crisis. 
The Quality of Life committee, chaired by Paul Voida, will be investigating the possibility of university-wide day care on campus and will be involved in working with Campus Ministry to put together an ecumenical worship service for graduate students. 
Defining a role for the GSU in the Year of Women and compil­ing a resource directory for graduate students are the pri­orities of the Women's Resource committee, according to its co­chairperson Greg Bazan. 
Shar'ron Harris, chairperson of the Libraries committee, conveyed a reminder that cards from the copy machine vendor in the library should be used before the end of October. 

Know your limit and stay within it 

NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 
OCTOBER 20, 1990 


On the evening of October 20 last year, Zhcng-de Wang, a Notre Dame graduate student from Tianjin, China, was struck down byacarwhile walking on Notre Dame Avenue. Zheng-dt• had already received his master's degree in socioloh'Y· was 
-~ pursuing a doctoral degree and was hoping to obtain a law degree l!·om Notre Dame lin· what would rntainly have been a distinguished career in international law. l'ninsurecl at tlH· time oft he ardclent, Zheng-de was severely injured and l'<>lllatose lin· st•vt·ralmolllhs. Now confined to a wheelchair and undergoing thnapv. Zheng-de is able to recognize old friends and to me IV<' his lingers for rudimentary communication, but his recoverv is 1;1r from complete and 1;1r from certain. ' Profil<; derived from the sales of this T -shirt will be donated to Zheng-de's family for the enormous expenses this tragedy has innicted on them. 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS, LA FORTUNE INFO. DESK_ BOOKSTORE, PRO SHOPS, & G.S.U. OFFICE (307 LA FORTUNE) 

,_...--­
Thursday, October 11, 1990
The Observer 
page 6 

Hsueh-Chia Chang, professor people to chemical engineering. and chairman of chemical engi­People do it because they love it. neering. "There was a shortage Money is a nice benefit. We 
Happy Birthday. Stvvcz Baumczr
If what happened
of [chemical engineering] have security, we know we can graduates 4 or 5 years ago be­get jobs." cause the employment picture "When you go to grad school, 
on your inside 
was not as bright. The price of you go basically for free. The oil has gone up, and the indus­schools themselves offer a tu­
happened on your 
try is recovering from the ition waiver and money for slump. I foresee a real healthy room and board. When you can 
outside, would 
chemical engineering economy make $36,000 a year out of in the next few years," said school [undergraduate]. they 
you still smoke?
Chang. [graduate schools] have to do This year. approximately 43 something to get you to go," he companies will be interviewing said. 
NOVEMBER 15. 
. .· . ~~'~
THE GREAT AMERICAN 
A~~ . , 
t
SMOKEOUT. ·. AMERICAN 
Come Celebrate his 22nd Birthday tonight!
CANCER
American Heart&~ 
• SOCIETY''
Association V' 
From your roommates 
BAR-B-QUE BEEF RIB BUFFET 
1990 Cora{ 'Dodge Irisfi J"a{[ C{assic
MADE FROM OUR OWN PRIME RIB 

.~~~~~6 
9\[ptre 'Dame vs. J'l.ir J'orce
-8PM 95 
L YOU c!E TO EAT 
Also on Buffet. .. 
rrfiursiay, Octo6er 11, 7:00 pm
Mesquite Chicken & Chili 
:FrU!ay, Octo6er 12, 8:30pm
100 Center, Mishawaka Phone 259-9925 
Covefes{(j Stcufium, Soutfi 13eni 

J!ee bus transportation 

Leaving tfie Main (jate starting at 6:00 rrfiursiay ani from (jate 10 jo[fowing tfie Pep 'Rg[[y :FrU!ay 
Irisli 'Base6a[[ is 6acK.J 
•'}'ree admission with. 'B{ue aru£ (joft£ Card 

vr_)'H'·'~ ;-::~~ •
~""'·" •«•··~L~-?l\*M 
NO participates in day-long 'distance education' event 
By FRANK RIVERA News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame was among fourteen colleges and universities in Indiana to participate in the day-long In­diana Conference on Technolo­gies for Distance Education (ICTDE). 
The conference, conducted by the Indiana Higher Education Telecommunication System (IHETS) television network and the colleges and universities, serves as "a very good oppor­tunity to show the state of In­diana how distance education takes place," said Sister Elaine DesRosiers. director of Educa­tional Media. 
"Distance education" is a phrase used by IHETS, to de­scribe formal instruction which uses modern communication technologies to surmount the geographical separation of the teacher from the student, and is not new to the University, ac­cording to DesRosiers. 
"This is the first time there is a conference to teach people about it," said DesRosiers. "We have been doing this for several years. The engineers, for exam­ple. teach classes via satellite to many businesses across the country." 
Funded by Lilly Endowment. 
winds had increased to 65 mph
Demand, salaries rise and the storm had picked up speed, charging north across the Gulf of Mexico at 10 mph,
for chemical engineers 
By KATE KECKLER News Writer 
Salary offers to graduating chemical engineers are up 6.6% to $35, 112 per year, according to the College Placement Coun­cil. 
The demand for chemical engineers is still rising, said 
Inc., the conference featured locally planned sessions at host campuses allowing participants to interact with colleagues and investigate local facilities. 
"With the building of the new classroom building and the Peace Institute," said DesRosiers, "the potential for Notre Dame's doing more with teaching here and having lis­teners elsewhere is going to be on the rise with our new tech­nology." 
The teleconference included addresses by John Mutz, presi­dent of Lilly Endowment, Inc., John Worthen, president of Ball State University and Philip Swain, director of Continuing Engineering Education at Pur­due University and chair of the ICTDE steering committee. 
Other speakers. present in studios throughout the state, fielded questions from partici­
pants at each of the thirteen
sites through a two-way audio '--------------------------------------_J 
system. The topics discussed were 
MIAMI (AP) -Tropical Storm
computer networking in dis­
Marco thundered toward
tance education, audiographic Florida's Gulf Coast with in­applications. student recruit­
creased strength Wednesdayment, broadcast telecourses. 
evening.
satellite programming reception 
Forecasters said the stormand compressed video 
could crash ashore by morning. 
technologies. 
By 10 p.m. EDT, Marco's top 
twice as fast as two hours ear­lier.
chemical engineering graduates 
That could put landfall
on campus. According to senior somewhere in the area betweenchemical engineering student Fort Myers and Sarasota beforeDon Stager, the 14 or 15 stu­dawn Thursday, Zimmer said. 
dents will each get about 5 or 6 "We're prepared, as preparedjob offers. 
as we're going to be," Sanibel
Regarding the salary Marina owner Myton Ireland
prospects, Stager noted, "As can said after hauling nine boats, all
be seen by the size of the 
40 feet or longer, onto land. "Ifclasses, money doesn't attract we wait too late and then it blows hard, we're in trouble." 

At 10 p.m., Marco's center was located near 26.2 north latitude, 82.4 west longitude, about 45 miles southwest of Fort Myers. Forecasters said they expected it to maintain its direction. 
Marco's winds weren't ex­pected to reach the hurricane threshold of 7 4 mph, said fore­caster Bob Case. 
"Coastal flooding and beach erosion will probably be the main problem that it will pro­duce," he said. "The further north the system goes, the closer it will get to the coast." 
Marco's southwest winds were expected to push tides 1 to 3 feet above normal, scour the coast's sandy beaches and dump 3 or more inches of rain in some sections. 
Storm warnings were in effect from the Dry Tortugas through Key Largo, including Florida Bay, and northward along the Southwest Florida coast to Cedar Key at the southern edge of the Big Bend region. 
All Red Cross chapters on the Gulf Coast from the Keys to Panhandle were on alert and ready to open shelters. said state disaster specialist Karen Wescott. Emergency manage­ment planner Don Reed said two shelters were already being opened in Bradenton to house voluntary evacuees from low­lying areas. 


Thursday, October 11 , 1990 

Bavarian fire hydrant 
Eleven-year-old Robert is posing with a painted hydra-nt, placed near the fire station in Muthmannshofen, a little bavarian town southwest of Munich Tuesday. 
All 
• 
AP Photo 
The Observer page 7 
Corporate division president talks at Saint Mary's Business luncheon 
By CORINNE PAVLIS 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Success for American corpo­rations in the global market­place, according to Beth Bron­ner, president of the sweet goods division of the Slim-Fast Corporation, will depend on their ability to understand both their audiences and themselves. 
Bronner, addressed the Saint Mary's Business Associates fall luncheon yesterday. 
"Education for a global mar­ketplace means educating our­selves not only about who our customers are, but also about who our employees are and how we can use their personal and educational strengths to succeed in new and challenging market," said Bronner. 
With boundaries between 
countries and barriers to inter­
national trade dissolving, 
Bronner said the world has, in 
effect, become a smaller place. 
Bronner added that to remain 
competitive in this "shrinking" 
environment, American corpo­
rations must initiate employ­
ment policies that provide 
equity in pay scales and execu­
tive level positions, especially 
for minorities and women. 
"There's little to keep 
women earning sixty-three 
cents on her male 
counterpart's dollar here (in 
the United States) when she 
can earn parity pay in a 
foreign country less dominated 
by the "old boy" network and 
attitudes," Bronner said. 
Bronner also addressed the difficulty of marketing Ameri­can products in new today's new markets. "Just as some idioms lose something in the translation, so do some prod­ucts," said the Slim-Fast executive. "What flies in Philadelphia may flop in Finland. A borderless world does not automatically lead to a universal taste in products, " added Bronner. 
Bronner said that U.S. cor­porations must "learn to adapt, like chameleons, to the surroundings in which they want to succeed, rather than attempt to change the world to fit American standards." 
Stressing the need to adapt products to local preferences, Bronner said, "If you try to de­sign one product that pleases everybody, it ends up pleasing no one at all. To succeed glob­ally, companies must decide which markets they can please with their products and ser­vices, and go after those ripe opportunities, rather than try to fit square pegs into the proverbial and unprofitable, round hole." 
The trick, according to Bronner, is assessing each fragment of a market to deter­mine and accommodate local cultural preferences. "In mak­ing these assessments, global marketers must be as good at gathering information as they are in acting upon that infor­mation," said Bronner. 
"Fortunately, we've got a speedier flow of information available to us than was ever possible before," explained 
NOTRE DAME BOXING 
ATTENTION BOXERS 
Mandatory Meeting 
those who want to box at Notre 
Bronner. She added that to­day's corporations have no more excuses to be operating on "yesterday's news." 
"Although some companies have failed miserably by trying to do the equivalent of selling ice cubes to Eskimos," said Bronner, "many corporations that are basing their business plans on accurate knowledge of the international market, and carrying those plans through with the needed modifications required in various countries, are succeeding." 
Bronner concluded by reiterating that today's corporations "are finding that it is, indeed, a small world after all." 
Before joining Slim-Fast, Bronner held a variety of mar­keting positions at Haagen­Dazs, Nabisco, and Fleis­chmann division. 
Bronner holds a bachelor's degree from Vassar College and an M.B.A. from the university of Chicago Graduate School of Business. She has been a guest speaker at several industry and university conferences on the role of women in the corporate world. Bronner has also been profiled in various national publications, including USA Today, Working Woman, Savvy, and Fortune. 
Thirty-five local firms com­prise the Saint Mary's Business Associates Program, which is designed to strengthen the relationship between the College and the Michiana community. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Dame, 
I 
meeting .I
nOVJ.Ce and veteran~ must attend this Medical and 1nsurance forms will be
I distribut.ed 
I 
I
1n preparation for the upcoming mandatory phys1call 
Thursday, October 11 I 
!l)!Km.~>IIK)iZ!:-~-~='~'i;~~;~;~;;~::~:~----~-J ''.• 
Business
page 8 Thursday, October 11, 1990 
Entrepreneur urges: Follow Disney's advice 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
Business Writer 
John McCormack, Inc. magazine's "hottest en­trepreneur in America," spoke to Notre Dame students yester­day on the secrets of his suc­cess. 
According to McCormack, the key to success is holding on to a dream until it becomes a real­ity and then helping other peo­ple carry out their own dreams. 
Basing his life on this philos­ophy, McCormack has gone from being a New York police­man, to a Wall Street stockbro­ker, to the owner of a promi­nent chain of Texas-based sa­lons, called Visible Changes. His experience as franchise founder has earned him the reputation of being an authority on fran­chising and small business eco­nomics. 
In his lecture, McCormack, who had no college education and no management training, stressed the importance of learning about success by fol­lowing the examples of success­ful people. 
"Anybody who wants to start a business should study under an entrepreneur," said McCor­q~ack. "If you want to learn how to make it you have to go to someone who has." 
McCormack attributes his success to the valuable lessons he learned while working under a variety of men who had come to the United States penniless, uneducated, and friendless and yet became millionaires. He challenged students to listen to the advise he received from these successful men and apply it to their own lives. 
Stressing the importance of faith in oneself, McCormack told students, "You have to build confidence in yourself or you won't get anywhere." He asked, "how can you make any­thing of yourself if you only know your liabilities and not your assets?" 
McCormack also reassured students that it is acceptable to start out working at the bot­tom. He said, "It is not so terri­ble not being 'in gear' at 28 years old." 
According to McCormack, hard work and determination will pay off in the long run. In his own endeavors, McCormack was turned down by 299 banks before he finally obtained a 
Budget Plans Compared: Latest Proposals 
Committees in the House and Senate are working to flesh out the skeleton deficit reduction package approved earlier in the week. Compared below are details of the failed budget suimmit package, the skeleton deal, and the latest detailed proposal. 
Original budget summit package 
Package Rejected by the element House Oct. 4 
$60 billion in cuts over five years, including $28 billion in
••cuts 
added cost to recipients; deductible doubled to $150. 
Reduces deduction by 3% 
I~ taxes 
for taxpayers earning over 
$1 00,000; raises ceiling on 
income taxed for Medicare 
from $51 ,300 to $73,000. 
Capital gains tax No cut in capital gains taxation. 
~« 
Other taxes Specific list of excise tax increases already agreed to by the White House, including gasoline, home heating oil, tobacco, alcohol and luxury goods. 

A variety of cuts in all departments, including significant reductions in defense and farm support spending. 
Revised House package 
Passed Oct. 8; similar plan passed by Senate 
$42 billion in cuts over five years, including $12 billion in added cost to recipients; deductible up 33% to $100. 
No specifics in package. 
No cut in capital gains taxation. 
No specifics in package. 
No specifics in package. Congress would work out cuts later, along the lines of original budgit summit package. 
Bentsen-Senate Finance plan 
Being considered in committee Oct. 10 
Similar to revised House package, no increase in Medicare part B premiums. 
Eliminates the 28% marginal rate "bubble" for high-income taxpayers; raises ceiling on income taxed for Medicare to $85,000 or $90,000. 
30% exclusion for gains on property held 3 years or longer. 
Similar to original budget summit package, except no added tax on heating oil; luxury tax limited to highest­priced cars, boats, jewelry, furs. 
Similar to revised House package. 
AP/Pat Lyons 
Global economics are next wave 
Council discusses increased EEC interaction 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Devel­opment met Wednesday to dis­cuss the globalization of na­tional economies. 
Three student speakers, Dar­ren Kew, Mike Boyle and Jim Nappo, presented their experi­ences from summer internships and study in Spain and Great Britain. They discussed the globalization occurring be­tween the markets of the Euro­pean Economic Community, and they offered their own reflec­tions on how these two national economies are dealing with the growing economic interdepen­dence of the world. 
Kew, the council president, studied in Madrid, Spain for six weeks. He discussed the social and political effects of global­ization from the Spanish point of view. 
Kew noted that the increased competition of a unified Euro­pean market could disrupt some aspects of the traditional Spanish lifestyle. He quoted a Spanish friend who said "I make enough money to live and to go out for a beer... Why should I work harder?" 
Kew noted the strong en­trepreneurial spirit existing in other Common Market coun­tries such as Germany, and ne­cessity for change in Spain if it hopes to compete. 
Boyle, the council chairman who also studied in Madrid, discussed barriers to globaliza­tion and specifically the barri­ers that exist precluding EEC unification. These barriers are, according to Boyle, border con­trols with regard to foreigners, protectionism and political differences between countries, and the differing fiscal policies of each EEC nation. 
Boyle said that Spain has al­ready made strong economic gains resulting from EEC par­ticipation. The cheap value of the Spanish peseta relative to other European currencies has made Spain an attractive in­vestment opportunity. He said that countries with a stronger currency, like Germany, can in­vest cheaply in productive facil­ities. 
He also noted a flip side to Spain's participation in the Common Market. "The internal (European) market will in­crease competition within the EC such that investment will flow toward the most produc­tive regions," he said. He ar­gued that if Spain does not be­come more productive, the pre­sent high level of investment will slip away. 
Jim Nappo, the council's in­ternship chairman, who worked as an intern for Dow Chemical at the company's London office, was the last speaker. He worked on a project that stud­ied the pan-European cultural acceptability of an environmen­tally safe meat wrap. 
Working on this project, Nappo realized the interna­tional view a company must take in developing an product. "The British did not seem to care about an environmentally safe plastic, while the West Germans we talked with seemed extremely interested," he said. 
Nappo noted that companies unwilling to take this global perspective will not be able to compete with companies that take an international approach to marketing. 
loan to open Visible Changes. 
Once McCormack set up his salons, strong employee rela­tions were crucial to his con­tinuing success. 
McCormack believes that "the company was successful be­cause we actually gave people who didn't dream the ability to dream." 
Discussing the high caliber of his employees he said, "If you really want to get some­thing out of people, you must first give them something such as self-esteem." 
Programs such as profit­sharing and employee group vacations boost morale and make employees feel they are truly part of the company. Mc­Cormack said that such a re­ward system is an effective way to maintain high standards. 
Once standards are set, the customers know the quality that can be expected and con­tinue to come back, said Mc­Cormack. "In the long run what you thought was acceptable productivity at one time be­comes not acceptable." The higher McCormack sets the standards, the more successful his salons become. 
McCormack concluded by challenging students to follow the advice of Walt Disney: Think about the values you want to live by, believe in your­self, dream about what you want to happen, and dare to turn your dreams into realities. 
The lecture, entitled "Wake Up America-the Recess is Over," was the third in the Siegfried Lecture Series in en­trepreneurial studies. 
Financial consultant gives insurance advice 
By KEVIN GRUBEN 
Business Writer 
In choosing an insurance pol­icy, time and in-depth research are critical components of the search, according to Joyce Wegs, a financial consultant with the Equitable Financial Companies. 
A former faculty member, Wegs focused her presentation around life insurance: who needs it, which type is best suited for each individual, and how to go about purchasing certain policies. 
Wegs said she did not see the need for single, independent people to enter into life insur­ance policies unless they are ei­ther planning for the future or are interested in leaving money to dependent beneficiaries. 
She emphasized the need for life insurance, however, for those who have others depen­dent on their income, whether they be a spouse, children, or elderly parents. 
"Many people don't like to talk to other members of their family ... it's too painful of a subject," said Wegs, stressing the need for families to be open about the sudden absence of a provider and to discuss the ramifications of a premature death. 
With so many insurance poli­cies available today, she urged those looking into purchasing policies to seek professional advice before entering into one. 
"Be wary of policies where you have to continue to prove that you are healthy. Question policies which are cheaper­usually this mea.1s that the in­surance company is not count­ing on paying it," she warned. 
Wegs also advised purchasing one policy rather than buying several small ones. 
The lecture, co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Library and the Accountancy Department, in conjunction with The Year of Women, was the second in­stallment in a six part series titled, "Understanding and Managing Family Resources." The series· will continue through April. 
NO to participate in 
Notre Dame's College of Bll$iness Administration will a team this fall. to the 2nd IJ)~~rna~ Tournament at of Western 
next spring. 
is the first year that Notre Dame will compete in the Western Ontario tourna­ment. 
HOne particularly exciting t of the competition,'' 
J)ean John Keane 
()f the College of Business Adminis~ tration/ is that Notre Dame business students will have the opportunity to compete with last year's champion team, the University of Vir­
along with atleast one Europe and Asia/' 
students will bat­spot on the Notre 
. • ' > 
' "'' ·• • 
·tournament 
"A great commitment on the part of the students will be necessary to make the fi­nal team. Excellent analyti­cal, thinking, and presenta­tion skills are a must," said Assistant Professor of Man­agement and team coach Clayton Smith. 
Students eligible for the team must be enrolled in the Advanced Corporate Strat­egy course, where they will take part in four practice cases. A final in-house case­off will be held in February to pick the traveling team. 
"I'm amazed at the amount of raw talent in the students. With some more case work and polish there's a good chance that we'll come home with the first place trophy," said Jim O'Rourke, director of the college's Center for Business Communication and assistant coach. 

------------------~----------------~-----~---------­
Viewpoint 
page 9
Thursday, October 11, 1990 
Rhetoric increases animosity in the Gulf 
weeks, the majority of WesternBy Watts Hudgens leaders have gone on the record saying that they believe 
This is a response to Kevin 
that war is imminent. The Smant's Viewpoint column titled 
world media hangs on every"Opposition to U.S. Policy in the 
belligerent word, and this is Gulf Unreasonable" (The 
having a frightful effect on the Observer, Sept. 28). Smant 
possibility of a peaceful seems to take an objective posi­
settlement. If Saddam Hussein tion in his column dealing with 
has any intelligencethe military buildup in the 
whatsoever, his most logicalPersian Gulf, but I've found a 
reaction to these statements is few problems and omissions 
to assume that the U.S.-led with his analysis of U.S. policy. 
forces do not plan on waitingSmant elaims that the pri­
for the international embargo mary goal of a nation's foreign 
or negotiation to end the crisis, policy is Hw protection of its 
but rather that they plan to national interests. This soems 
attack. It is ironic that the to be an nxtremnly aceuratn Soviet Union and France-two dnfinition of U.S. policy in Saudi 
nations held in little regard in Arabia: "We are there to 
America-are the only nations protect our sources of oil." Does 
trying to avoid an armed anyont~ rnally beliP.ve Mr. Bush's 
conflict. Pmhaps the French are noble rlwtoric about defending 
simply cowardly or naive, or dmnocraeies form aggression? 
perhaps the communists are Or that tlw Unit!~d States would 
simply trying to undermine the have rome to Kuwait's aid had 
international coalition to fur­it bmm located anywhere else 
ther their revolution-then in the world-say in Indonesia 
again, perhaps the Soviet Union or Central Africa? I have no 
has more recent memories of real problem with the demands 
fighting in the Middle East of propaganda when countries 
twisted in strong regional poli­are trying to justify themselves 
tics and emotions. before the United Nations 
The world needs to unite and/or the world-propaganda 
when someone like Hussein is part of the grand game of 
threatens world security and power. Nevertheless, I must peace. If we have learned any­question the President's choice 
thing from World War II, of rhetoric during this standoff 
melting before aggressive na­opposite a huge army and tions just compounds the prob­chemically-capable military, as 
lem. However, the question as opposed to past scenarios like 
to whether the United States Panama and Grenada. 
has the responsibility to lead It seems unreasonable to 
such an effort remains open to churn out emotional, deroga­
debate. If, as Smant claims, the tory press releases about first goal of a nation's foreignSaddam Hussein day after day, 
policy must be to protect its after day. Everyone's file on 
national interests, then what llussein seems to indicate that 
are we to do when our national he is intelligent, arrogant....and 
interests conflict with our unstable. If you were trying to 
"responsibility to the world?" negotiate with someone who 
This question, also, remains had the power to start a devas­open to debate and is tating war in the Middle East, 
practically irrelevant to the would you continue to hurl in­
Kuwait crisis because this hap­sults an~ threats to an arro­
pens to be one of those rare gant, tl;tstable dictator? 
times when our national inter­l'rFsident Bush's propaganda 
ests and our worldly responsi­is r.t least as arrogant and ag­
bilities dictate the same course. 1!" essive as llussein's. In recent 
Make no mistake-if the United 
Church position on orientation reveals misunderstandings 
/Jear Editor: completely different level than 
I am writing in response to most other discriminations. Susan Loveless' letter (The Observer, Oct. 5). If I under­Anyone who disagrees need stood correctly, she is wonder­only listen to any one of the ing why homosexual persons vast number of anti­n~quire special treatment not homosexual people on campus aceordP.d to other minorities. As as he or she rants and raves a heterosexual white male about homosexuals being anti­Catholic, I don't exactly have Christian. One needs to go no first-hand expP-rience with dis­further than the Catholic crimination here at ND. Bishops' letter on sexuality to Nevertheless, I feel I c:an otTer a find out that the Catholic fHw insights. Church does not consider 
homosexual orientation to be 
WhiiH it is true that all anti-Christian. minority groups experience discrimination, harassment, I do agree with one of Miss and violence, there is a crucial Loveless' points, however. The differenee between the gay and lesbian community treatment of homosexuals and should not need the approval of that of other minorities. You others for their own self worth. don't find a lot of raeist or sex­And they wouldn't, if all of us ­ist pnople who would argue that gay or straight, male or female, thf~Y hnve a moral right to act pink or blue -would simply as they do. However, a great open our eyes, ears, and hearts many people feel that they have to the feelings and problems of not only a right, but a moral those around us. responsibility to discriminate against homosexual persons. Michael K. Gaffney This puts discrimination of gay Senator. District 3 and lesbian persons on a Oct. 5. 1990 
The Viewpoint Department welcomes submissions from any and all members of the Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's community. You don't have to be a regular writer or a member of the Observer sta to submit a column. Voice your views and make a difference-write Viewpoint at P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
States were not dependent on 
foreign oil for 50 percent of our 
petroleum imports, then we 
would not be entrenched in 
Saudi Arabia. 
Smant stated that, "The United States must have oil to function..." and that President Bush should not be held re­sponsible for the quantum leap in oil imports over the last ten years (the Reagan/Bush years). A good capitalist can hardly fault consumer's natural reac­tion to the low petroleum prices in the 80's, but a good citizen may find it difficult to exonerate the Reagan/Bush years where funds for research on al­ternative energy sources were eut by 75 percent. One can still forgive President Bush for that fiasco, but one cannot forgive him for continuing to ignore such research when it's obvious that such technology would be very useful right now at limiting our vulnerability to Hussein. 
Although President Bush been reluctant to increase alternative energy funding, he has called for a reevaluation of the oil industry's proposals to develop oil fields on the coast of Alaska and in other sensitive areas. Regardless of how one views the environmental conse­quences of such development, it will take at least eight years for these oil fields to even begin to produce a marketable quantity of oil. Eight years is a long time to be in Saudi Arabia. 
The Bush Administration has promised to veto a Senate bill which raises the national au­tomobile mileage average from 23 mpg to 25 mpg by 1991 with incremental gains in the future and the goal of 30 rripg. The Reagan administration actually tried to lower the national av­erage down to 21 mpg. The auto industry has the technol­ogy to implement this today; in fact, they've had it for years. The improved gas efficiency gained by this bill would make up for the loss in Kuwait oil production in less than three years, as opposed to an eight year wait for an increase in domestic production. While an increase in domestic production might temporarily serve to sa­tiate our hunger for oil, the gas 
(RISlS PRECJNA!'CY 
efficiency legislation will reduce 
our dependence on oil now and 
in the future. Furthermore, if 
the bill's goal of a 30 mpg na­
tional average is ever achieved, 
it would not even matter if the 
oil fields of Saudi Arabia were 
lost to an Iraqi attack. The auto 
industry has the technology to 
meet a national fuel economy 
standard of 40 mpg by the year 
2000; thus, the current Senate 
goal of 30 mpg is fairly 
moderate in its provisions. 
Smant is probably correct: 
President Bush should not ig­
nore the threat to American in­
terests in the Persian Gulf while 
reflecting, "Damn! If I'd only 
c:onvinced Honnie to boost that 
fuel economy standard back in 
1985..." However, it is his job 
to reflect on past lessons and 
perhaps work toward a time 
when it may not be necessary 
to risk American lives, budget 
accords and political skins over 
a few billion barrels of oil. 
Watts Hudgens is a senior majoring in government and french. 

~%. 
~ 
Problems dismissed by the insecure 

Dear Editor: 
On Friday, I was disturbed to read a letter written by Susan Loveless. (The Observer, Oct.5) She seems to be frightened by the prospect of "Coming Out Day" for the gays and lesbians of Notre Dame, fearing that such deserved recognition would infringe upon her rights as a heterosexual. She goes on to provide what she terms "absurd solutions for an absurd problem." 
However, she fails to provide any reasoning behind her assertion that her rights will be infringed. She relates the ex­ample of the oppression of Saint Mary's students, hardly a fitting analogy. Are Saint Mary's students constantly victims of blatant harassment, literature on the bathroom walls, and overt threats usually of physical violence by those who deem it so necessary to establish their own heterosexuality? 
the infringement she spoke of? Taking away some of the spot­light? Just like. in history, every year has been the year of men, heterosexuality is blatantly cel­ebrated every day, although even that is suppressed by the almighty DuLac. 
Miss Loveless suggests that if gays have enough self-confi­dence, then they do not need to be recognized. Not only is this attitude one that would push homosexuals back into the closet, thus sweeping them un­der the rug so as not to be dealt with. But this attitude fueled the fire of segregation in the 60's which pushed African­Americans into their position as barely recognized humans, and created the forces of sexism that would push women back into the kitchen where they supposedly "belong." 
It is ridiculous to think that a fellow human being does not need to be recognized as such. It is this recognition that Notre Dame's homosexual community seeks, but approval is a loftier goal, considering views of that infallible icon, the Catholic Church, which also seeks to subjugate minorities like women. 
I highly commend the Student Senate in their attempts to rec­ognize National Coming Out Day. This body hopefully will prove that the Notre Dame community is not a racist, sex­ist, homophobic society, and that these ignorances can be overcome through an intelligent and informed recognition that sexuality, like race and gender is a fact, and not an opinion. 
Jason L. Winslade 
Off-Campus 
Oct. 8. 1990 
Headline misstates events in Africa 
More frightening is that the 
Dear Editor: of Rwanda. The correct
attitude of Miss Loveless has 
Allow me to comment on a re­headline therefore should be
too often been applied to 
port titled "Foreigners Flee "Foreigners Flee Rwanda ...." 
racism, sexism, segregation and 
Kenya While Rebels Battle with Nairobi, Kenya being
supremacism. Proposing a 
Army" (The Observer, Oct. 8). quoted only as the source of the
National Straight Day, a term 
The events reported therein story.
implying that homosexuality is 
have nothing whatsoever to do As a Kenyan currently at
crooked and not the "proper" 
with Kenya, the only connection Notre Dame, I am concerned 
way (as if there is one), Miss 
being that the report was filed about the damage the report
Loveless is on the same side as 
from the AP office in Nairobi, might do to the image of my
advocates of the Year of Men 
Kenya's capital. Kenya and country, especially in light of
Rwanda are two different recent events in Uberia.
countries with Tanzania,
the majority that feel threat­
another country, in between George Wachira 
ened whenever people who are 
them. The events reported take Off-Campus
different are recognized. Is this 
place in Kigali, the capital city Oct. 9, 1990 
, I I I I I I I I I t 1.1,1 I •.t I • t I I I 
't,l r • r 
Viewpoint 
oage 10 Thursday, October 11, 1990 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ..••••••••.• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ......••...•.•••••,•.Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor .............•.•• Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .•.•Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ........•................ Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Ssint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 
Dial FRED to decide 'U' fate Campus Ministry offers support 
Dear Editor: 3) After discussing these two for Coming-Out Day concerns 
We are writing in regard to factors with the cabinet, the controversy surrounding everyone agreed that the $1500 Dear Editor: mate rights of every person,the discontinuation of the 'U' (minus the first edition) could With the support of Student and each Christian's obligationMagazine subscription. be better spent to serve the Government and the Hall to treat others with respect. 
When allocating money in our entire student body. President's Council, some mem­Staff members of Campus budget, we keep one thing in In The Observer's editorial bers of the University commu­Ministry have been and are mind at all times: will these (Oct. 9), the editorial board nity are supporting "Coming willing to offer support and an
six people called the FRED line
funds provide a quality service compared the discontinuation Out Day." Despite carefully opportunity for a confidential 
to express their happiness that
to as many students as of 'U' with removing magazines worded resolutions, there re~ conversation to anyone seeking
we had terminated the
possible? It is very difficult for from the Bookstore which have mains a concern that some such assistance because of
subscription. Only one person
us to judge whether a majority condom advertisements. There combination of hidden agendas questions or concerns related to 
expressed disappointment with
of students read and want the is one major difference: and unstated goals are at stake. sexual orientation. Persons
the decision. Therefore, we
'U.' We decided that only a students can choose whether As a result, a number of people availing themselves of such
believe our decision was a
small number of people actually they wish to buy publications of goodwill are cautious about help need not fear breach of
positive one.
read the publication. This deci­from the Bookstore which their response. confidentiality nor the
At this point, the decision is
sion was based on three rea­contain condom ads -with the Is it possible to voice opposi­possibility of exploitation of 
yours. The money which goes
sons: 'U' they could not. Therefore, tion to harassment of some their personal situation. We 
to pay for 'U' is yours. If the
we believed that if some members of our community, will be happy to explore with
majority of students express to
1) On the day 'U' was students did not want their gay persons in this particular students questions they wish to 
us that they wish the 'U'
distributed, five people called money supporting condom ads, case, without feeling manipu­raise or concerns they want to
subscription to continue, we
the FRED line to ask that we we would inquire if they could lated into supporting a lifestyle discuss in a context of support
will continue it. If the majority
discontinue the subscription. be removed. with which one disagrees or and challenge, and with full
of students express a desire to
Five people may not seem like Upon inquiry, we learned that which is often lived out in ways regard for the teaching and
discontinue the subscription, it
many, but we felt that if five it would not be a problem for that are contradictory to the tradition of the Catholic Church. 
will remain discontinued. Just
people felt strongly enough to 'U' to remove the ads. teachings of the Catholic Faculty members who are
dial F-R-E-D and express your
call and complain, there were However, when we received the Church? What position can be willing to assist the Campus
opinion by October 15, by 5p.m.
many others who felt the same first edition, some ads appeared taken or petition signed without Ministry staff in this effort are
If you wish for us to take your
way. in the classified section. Since a lingering concern that one's invited to make their interest
opinion seriously, leave your
'U' broke its contract with us words will be slightly distorted known to us. 
name and phone number. 
2) More importantly, while at and we believed a majority of or inappropriately related to
The fate of 'U' is up to you. 
the dining hall we looked students did not read it anyway, several of the many issues Richard V. Warner. C.S. C. around to see if people were we decided to use the breach of related to the area of human Director. Campus Ministry actually reading 'U' magazine. contract as grounds for sexuality in general and Oct. 9. 1990
Robert F. Pasin
We observed that the vast discontinuing the subscription. homosexuality in particular?
Student Body President 
majority of students were After the article ran in The How can one support persons
Fred Tombar li/
simply letting the 'U' fall to the Observer informing students affected by discrimination
Student Body lice President Irish: Catholics 
floor when they picked up The that we were discontinuing 'U,' without expressing tacit or ex­
Oct. 9, 1990
Observer. plicit approval for a lifestyle? 
There are a number of situa­or Convicts? 
tions where inappropriate or 
exploitative sexual relationships Dear Editor: 
Cancellations cost students a bundle 
Dear Editor: cancelled three times, and, $80.01 of her top-quality 
could raise some of the same My curiosity has been piqued
When we came to Notre sadly, we have not even education. This also means that questions. A special focus on by the T-shirts I have seen on Dame, we expected a top­reached October break. for every minute of class that 
these issues as they are related campus proclaiming "Catholics 

quality education. Much to our While this may seem we are denied, we pay $0.53. to homosexuality is important vs. Convicts." I can understand dismay, we have discovered insignificant, Notre Dame Obviously, this problem needs a the part about the convicts.
at this time in view of specific 
that certain professors cancel students pay approximately remedy. circumstances. What I cannot figure out is why classes on a fairly regular basis. $12,000 in tuition per year. While the Catholic Church's the Miami students are referred Furthermore, still other Assuming a five class course­Keira E. Kazmerski 
teaching on what might be de­to as "Catholics." 
professors frequently let their load, this means that we pay Evelyn Ann Smith 
scribed as "gay lifestyle" ques­
students out of class early. For $26.67 per fifty minute class Shannon L. Neptune 
tions is clear, so too are nor­Francis J. Deck 
example, one of our period. This means that our Lewis Hall 
mative guidelines for conduct Off-campus
roommate's classes has been roommate has been denied Oct. 7, 1990 
based on the dignity and legiti-October 5, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU lliROtu UP 7li8 H{}()f;J 7D
~Y, 7HE EXTERIORS 
!?&VEAL-A 5!/U; 5TEAMING
tte'U. 5fKXlTAT!Wli.-18U 
[)(JN'TWRRY 
A80UT7HtM 
mw... 
7DMORROtu, 50 ,,.,_,_ V-8 £3NGIN8ElOCJ<. YW SMIW ATITAND UCJ< YOUR UPS.,.

RIGHT. THffl Ya.J  
I5M/U3 AT THe ENGINe  THROWA ({XJP£.8 57'l3AKS ON IT. I  
Bl(X)(~  
\  

'It we had to tolerate in others what we permit in ourselves, life would become completely unbearable.' 
Georges Courteline 

Accent 
Thursday, October 11 , 1990 page 11 
The Notre Dame Student Players 
presents 

By MITCH FREEHAUF 
Accent Writer 
Nuns wielding wooden rulers and a throwback to the days when school children could recite the Baltimore Catechism upon command can be seen this week when the Notre Dame Student Players perform the musicaVcomedy "Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Heflect Up?" (the title refers to nuns warning girls that such shoes allow over­sexed males to see up a girl's skirt). 
The play is based on the books The Last Catholic in America and Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up? both by John Powers, following the life of Eddie Ryan (played by Joseph Clair) during his adolescent years while attending Catholic grammar school and high sehool. 
The viewer is treated to Eddie's scrapbook memories as he reflects on what his life was like as a teenager and his constant attempts to be someone he wasn't. Some of the scenes include the horrors of guilt associated with the Sacrament to Reconciliation, classroom antics, the awkwardness of the first freshman mixer, and a romance between Eddie and his overweight but lovable girlfriend, Becky (played by Wendy Eckelcamp). 
The plot does not revolve around any single character, but rather presents many different personalities and how their relationships grow and change. The play's director, Maggie McDonald, commented. "We're trying to downplay stereotypes ...._, such as the class clown or the typical shy kid." 
Although the play takes place in a Catholic school environ-ment and much of the humor is derived from this setting, Maggie McDonald said, "We want to bring out the better points of the play such as the experiences of growing up-love. asking life's big questions, and struggling to find an identity amongst constant peer pressure. We've even addf1d scenes from the book that were not in the play's original script in an attP.mpt to hopefully allow the viewer a better understanding of the characters' feelings. 
The Notre Dame Student Players have worked hard to present the play. Pre-production was plagued by problems such as a very late change in the lead role. One character had to be written out due to illness. Most of the aeting ensemble found themselves doing a fair share of teehnical work as well. Their director had only praise for them. however, saying. "We've .had many setbaeks. but the entire cast has really pulled together, and everyone's very proud of the show." 
"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Heflect Up?" will run from October 11-13 beginning at 8:10 
p.m.. each night located in Washington Hall. Ticket prices are $3 for students and $5 for the general public. All tickets are available at the information desk in the LaFortune Student Center. 
NBC bumbles with 'The Fanelli Boys' 
·­
"Thn fanelli Boys" finds its origins in the what could be any typical sitcom. The series plays Wednnsdays at 8:30 p.m. on NBC and is based on the activities of a stereotypical Italian family. The matriarch of this family is Theresa Fanelli (Ann Guilbert). This fine, upstanding older woman has overseen the lives of her four 
sons, and considering their successful statuses at present. 
considers herself well of a peaceful rntirement to Miami. 
Anthony (Ned Eisenberg) is director of the family funeral parlor. Business is a success. (Andy Hirsch) is college and is fairing as well as the al ND undergrad. Frankie is Meloni) is engaged. and >om (Joe Pantoliano), well, >om is a hustler, but a hustler 
th a good heart. If this were the true situation with her sons, then Mamma Fanelli could definitely retire to Miami with an easy conscience and nice places to visit when she feels like returning home to Philadelphia, provided that Philadelphia has any nice places to which one wants to return. 
The truth of the matter is that television is just a little crazy, and the Fanelli boys are in desperate need of assistance. If they weren't, NBC would not really have much of a series. Anthony finds himself $25,000 in debt. Ronnie is failing out of college, and thus is still fairing as well as the typical Notre Dame undergrad. Frankie's engagement has been broken, and Dom, well, Dom is still a hustler. Needless to mention, Theresa Fanelli needs to enlist some aid which is provided in the shape of her brother and priest. Angelo (Richard Libertini). 
MARC JOHNSON Accent Writer 
With this background firmly in place, the specifics of this program can be analyzed for humorous content. The viewer can search, but I do not believe there will be any content available for analysis. 
The particular episode of this ednesday night focused on one major plot, that of the return of Dom's former wife. The minor plot of this episode concentrated on the success of a baseball team on which the Fanelli boys play. 
The opening joke is all important for the success of a sitcom, and programs like "Cheers" have mastered the concept of grabbing the audience's attention with classic lines. "The Fanelli Boys" fails as miserably as "Cheers" succeeds with this concept. 
As the program begins, Anthony is speaking with his brother Frankie about an upcoming date. He advises a better tie and provides one himself. "I borrowed this from Mr. Baducci," Anthony said. "Hey, isn't that the guy from viewing room one?"questions Frankie. If that did not strike you as particularly humorous, you will probably find yourself with the majority of viewers. 
"The Fanelli Boys" slowly deteriorated as the two plots resolved their complications. Dom's ex-wife returns asking for alimony. She ends up falling for Anthony but finally elopes with a limo driver. The baseball team makes it to the league championship by defeating a rival funeral parlor, and in the final game Angelo is called into duty and makes the game­saving catch. This catch by no means compares with that of Les Nessman's on "WKHP," and the catch incites no emotion. 
"The Fanelli Boys" bumbles through its twenty-two minutes of air playing upon jokes as old as the concept of the sitcom itself. The whole idea of basing a show upon ethnic jokes is not necessarily offensive; it just is not humorous. If the readers of this article actually do make an effort to watch "The Fanelli Boys" despite sound advice, they should be prepared for the exploitation of other obvious lines of humor. A funeral parlor in the basement? The possibilities for ridiculous jokes are endless in this situation alone. 
In the infinitely wise words of Dom, "Blood is thicker than water, and no one is thicker than me." Dom is definitely thick if he believes anyone will watch the "Fanelli Boys." 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 11 , 1990
r 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
"GRAD CLUB" 
THIS FRIDAY. OCT. 12 
4:30 PM -7:00 PM WILSON COMMONS' LOUNGE ALL GRAD STUDENTS INVITED!! 
G R A D U A T E S T U D E N T S! 
St. Edward's Hall Players Presents 
ARSENIC AND OLD LACE 
A Comedy by Joseph Kesselring 
January 24-27, 1991 
General meeting for all those interested in acting, directing, producing, and tech will be held Sunday, Oct. 14 in Washington Hall at 7 pm. 
If you are unable to attend, please call Dennis (1513) or John (1648) 
Come and watch the first new episode of the Simpsons at the Knights of Columbus tonight at 7pm. There will be ice cream and everyone is welcome I 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of ND ave. & Howard. 233-2342 
LOST/FOUND ~= 
I lost a navy blue windbreaker at Club 23 last Wednesday. If you found it, please call me at 289-3467. Ask for John. 
RED•••RED•••RED•••RED••• jacket lost at stanford barn dance ... also RED ground grafic piece from RED car in D-2 lot... PRETTY PLEASE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN THEM !!! X­4096 ask for PAULA. 
LOST: A 14KT GOLD BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL ANDREA X3829 
LOST: A "Berenger" watch with a black band, a black face, and gold Roman numerals. I lost it somewhere between Farley and the Center for Social Concerns on Monday morning. If found, PLEASE call Michelle x3879. The watch was a gift and is very, very important to me. 
Lost: Pink, rimless eyeglasses in blue 
Oakley soft case. If found, contact Jim at 
x-1716. 
-· 
LOST: Black Vuarnet sunglasses in North Dining Hall Fri. 6:30 p.m. If found, please call Rene 277-9468. Reward offered. 
LOST: A GOLD AND SILVER SEIKO WATCH between Niewland and Hesburgh Lib. 10/8/90 from 2:00-3:00 p.m. REWARD, please call.2969 
LOST CAMERA on field at Stanford Game: Film has great sentimental value! PLEASE call Adrienne x4215 
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please contact Cara at x3847. 
Guess? WATCH FOUND 10/2 at Stepan Fields. Call Amy x1343 and describe it. 
test#4 OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.
HELP!!: I lost my DETEX around St. 
Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona
Joseph Lake Thursday morning (10/4). Targeted Recruiting Services (TRS). Only 
L--W_A_N_TE_o___,l_ 
Del Mar CA 92625. 
PLEASE call if you've found it. x4362 $10 before Oct. 15th. For your free 
JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give hundreds of enrollment kit plus a free Corporate Profiles LOST:FRESHWATER PEARL employers Magazine, describing opportunites at the 
Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books 
at home. Call
BRACELET WITH GOLD BEADS. (including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank One, the nation's leading employers, caii1-800-TRS­1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs, JOBS. 
TERRI239-5812 Microsoft, Procter & Gamble, and Random House) access to your resume through 
see CLASS I page 13 
• 
GREEKS HAVE AlWAYS APPRECIATED COMFORT. 
What is real comfort? ARussell Athletic Sweatshirt. And if you know your history, you could be living a lot more comfortably next tenn. Simply identify this famous face and the two 
others in our newspaper campaign, and you could win a $1,000 scholarship from Russell Athletic for next semester.* Visit JACC Ice Arena for details and entry fonns. 
*Ifyou are agraduating senior and win the sweepstakes, you will receive $1000 credit on your tuition. 

Thursday, October 11, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
NEEDED: SELLING OK, I STILL NEED TWO MIAMI I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI, 3 Air Force stud. tix STU. TIX. COUSINS FROM 
Class 
GAMES.272-6306 PENN STATE TICKETS Call4431 2 (together) stud tix IRELAND COMING IN FOR THE 
continued from page 12 EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, JAMACIA AS PART-TIME CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786.  HELP! This means YOU. I need two GA's for Miami game. Will pay $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or hotel reservations for any game. Amy 1289.  
NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY 4 BREAK-EILEEN 284-4253  HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pay$$$$$$$$! Call Matt X1055  
Need a ride from L.l. to N.D. alter Oct. break? Call X3725.  
HELPI!I  Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or GA Please call Matt X3024  
I need a ride home to MPLS/STP alter the Miami game and a ride back to ND the next weekend. Will pay $$$. Please call Jason at 1397.  Need Miami GAs & Studs Mike 273-1537 Need:  
NEEDED: Ride to/from Dallas for break. Will help pay for gas. Diane x5468 FOR RENT  f  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES I CALL JOE X1688 Monday-Thursday 3:30-6:30  
STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991 92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE 232-1776.  I Need GA's for MIAMI. and PENN STATE. Also need stud. for PSU & Miami. PLEASE call Beth at 288-0597  
an attractive stud1o in lovely old mansion near ND ,255 plus deposit ;please call 2888595 d STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 8PM  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) 257-5971' II am-8pm, M-F AIR FORCE TIX; need 1 student; call Chris x3372  
TIRED OF O'HARA-GRACE? MOVE INTO MY APT'S 2ND BEDROOM AT TURTLE CREEK CALL JANE 271-1920 FORSALE ]  I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL JEFF 0. AT X 1068. THANKS  
FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Portable TV!!! Excellent condition. Call x1208 and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer before  HELP! NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR POOR RELATIVES! CALL KEVIN X1589  

m1dmght. Oct. 12th. 
1981 oldsmobile, omega,4 speed,87000mlles,good body. runmng well,$600 deadline: fnday 239-5754,271-8858 
'76 AUDI FOX; perfect body & mech. cond.; new pa1nt. tires brakes, clutch, AIC, 32 MPG. $1250/offer. Call234-1196, 8-10:1 PM 
FOR SALE 2 A .F. STUD TIX 
CALL ANDREA OR MARIA 
1 
X 3829 • ~.ave over $2.50 
ND GRAD and wife from Calif. NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami Game. Call Collect (818) 591­2625. 
C3:2A_··­
~'M 
PAlTitS 
_"___ ..
no Yf)URS!Lr A FI.M('I/1
-... 
oi~;;";'f;r2'f;;;-$8.9~r--­
CALL 234-7644 GAME, #289-7221 KEVIN Miami or Air Force I NEED MIAMI TIX 2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE. I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s CALL JOHN 258-0809 Call Jim with BEST OFFER TO HIGHEST BIDDER. 
CALL X3501 271-0333 271-9552 I need GA's for Miami, Penn ST and Navy. WILL PAY WELL. I also FOR SALE: 1 AF and 1 MIAMI 
4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905 will buy GA's for any other game 
student. Call Krista between too. Call Jason atx3413 or x3419 
FAST 
1:00 and 3:00, X1292, leave offer.
FUNDRAISING
Need Air Force Tix. Students or 
G.A.s Call Paul at 1755 Uncle Morris from Iowa is coming 
MY FELLOW DOMERS: for the Miami game and ..surprise 
PROGRAM 
I have two requests. he has no ticket. Call Kara if you 
1) I need to trade two AIR FORCE AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR have a Miami GA for Uncle Morris 
Student Tickets for GA's. 
*1000:.::
WIIK.
SALE X1511 at x276t. 
2) I need to purchase one more 
AIR FORCE GA. NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND My little sister is coming ALL THE 
Earn up to $1000 in one week 
If you can help in any of these two PSU STUD. CALL1511 WAY FROM ALASKA to see the 
for your campus organization. 
endeavors, please call MIKE AT Penn St game. Call Lisa or Kara 
X1788
Plus a chance at
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S. at x2761 if you have any Penn St. MONEY student tickets to sell. 
$5000 more! 
I need MIAMI TICKETSII! GA'S or NOT A CONSIDERATION. 
Students. If you can help please 
This program works!
RON Xt913 YO! HELP Swans & Me call Kevin at 1409
No investment needed. 
HAVE 2 Navy GAs & AF STUs NEED 2Pen St STU & 
PLEASE. I need 1 kind student SELLING STUD TIX Tennessee= BUY-SELL-TRADE 
Gill 1-IOMJ2-45Z8 
ticket for Air Force!I! Please call 
Ext. 50 
to all home games MIKE x1183 
Jim at 287-3087. up to 4 adj. MIAMI (day) 239-8232 need miami GAs please call x3735 NEED 3 GA'S TOGETHER FOR (night) 273-1905 I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAS AND AIR FORCE. CALL MATT AT 
273-1723 Need 4 NO-Air Force Tickets ONE STUD. CALL KRISTEN 288-7568. Call Greg or Diana 272-2984 X2873 MIAMI TIX; need 1 GA; call 
3 STUD AIR FORCE TKTS. Bob x3300 We have tickets to all SEC. 30. BEST OFFER. CALL HOME games ! ! FOR SALE: 1 AF stud X4900. I need 4 Air Force GA's •• Call 
Nick x2355 Holly at X4492 call Estevan or Ritchie HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME @2275 BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S I need 4 Air Force GAs! 
I Need 2 Penn St. GAs or studs CALL 273-1 364 Parents and Sibs never been $$$ Nick x2355$$$ to ND. Call Amy 284-5461 $$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS MI-AM-I in need of Miami 3 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL I NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S !!I CALL tix. stud. & GA's x4274 PAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609. JOE x1307 Ill 
Have 1 Miami tix NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIIIII PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED 4 AF PRETTY please ...Sell me your Bob 2384 GA'S. CALL BARRY @1 765 GA's to any home games. I need 4-JUST WON THE LOTTERY-­
8. $$call Paula@ 4096 I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!! 11!11 HELP !!!!! 
Have 1 Miami tix NEED 4 PENN STATE GAs For Sale: 1 MIAMI St. Tix. Bob 2384 PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE CALL ANN at x4872 30-35 Yd. Line. Call JJ xt619 
CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 
4 USC TIX FOR SALE. $50/EA OR 
SELLING 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET need one or two PENN STATE WILL TRADE FOR 1 OR 2 MIAMI THIS IS A CATHOLIC ---<:all LuAnn X4 766 GAs. Call monica at 283-4021. TIX. CALL JEFF (714) 646-8274. UNIVERSITY­HELP THE NEEDY -AIR FORCE GA TIX. NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud Need two tickets to ND vs. USC REASONABLE. 516-437-9784 HAVE MERCY!!! For Sale -MIAMI TICKET game, student or GA's. Call Betsy AFTER 6 PM. MIKI 284-4386 Leave Name, Number, Offer. at x3899. 
284-4419 HAVE AF TIX: 2 GAS , 1 STUD 
Wealthy Alumni WILL SELL OR TRADE FOR I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's! Desparately Need MIAMI OR PENN ST. MATT PLEASE! 277-4838 2 Airforce GA's Good seats. Sect. Miami Tix Xt213 
15. Call288-4183 Leave name, Call Tim x201 5 number and offer. $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
MIAMI STUD 4 SALE! NEED: 4 AF GA's. Call Tracy 273-NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX Call x2186 9033. 
SALE! MIAMI, AF STU 2719714 CALL X3224 WILL TRADE 4 AIR FORCE Need 2 GAs for Air Force. G.A.'S FOR 2 MIAMI G.A.'S For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best Call Maureen 284-5402. CALL CHRIS #277-9363 offer. 284-5152 or 284-5115 
I NEED 1 STUD. & 3 GA TIX FOR I NeEd MiAmi StUd Aim High!! AIR FORCE. CALL SHANNON@ I Need PSU GA's Call ToBy 4010 -Sell me your Air Force tickets for 271-9260. Call Beth 288-0597 top dollar. -I need 4 GAs and 1 Student NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S NEED PENN STATE STUD TIX ··call Jeff at 283-1164 HEY Air Force Sucks !!! HOMER X1384 
...so you don't want to go CALL X3797
I r,IC.k •ny two C....nwmel S.ndWlCht•:-I 
-----------1 IWO Garden Salads, phts your cho1c(~ 11t I me neither... but my siblings 2 AIR FORCE STU'S FOR SALE French Fril"S.or Oruon Rm~ and~ 1 2 Miami Stud Tix do... I NEED GA's $$$$$ ANDY 232-2586 
I
SALE 2 MIAMI GAS. I MlniS\Il~lli/90 I For Sale Jim 287-0889 NEED1-2GA-MIAMI X1488 233-7198 WITH B.O. Best Offer 2 miami stud tix for sale 
ts~;J~---~--------~ 
John x1808 RICH ALUM FROM SEATTLE call kim at 277-7 489 
NEEDS FOUR AIR FORCE G.A.'S ••••••FOR SALE•••••• It's raining so skip the game. WILL PAY. GUS (206) 624-7990, I Need Two AIR FORCE TIX or I'm 
--------1 99tt I 
Selling 2 PSU GAs leave name I Buy any size sundae and I 
One MIAMI STUD call287-0889 Jim 789-3497, COLLECT IF in big trouble with the P's. Prefer 
and offer 272_ re<:ei ve a second one of the l
4541 1 Best offer by t 0/17 $$ for Air Force GA's NECESSARY. GA's. Call Matt at 277-7371 
-----------1 same size for 99~ 1 
Call Tom xt808
..__ _.. ..,.____________...
I 10/21/90 I 
NEED PITTSBURGH GA's HELP ME!III I NEED 1 AIR I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI CALL MATT #1159 FORCE STUDENT TICKET. If you FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE FOR SALE: 2 married stud. tix ROSIE4025 have one, please call Michelle NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED. AF, Miami, Penn St. x3879. 1364 NEED 5 EITHER STUD. OR GA Best Offer 287-5012 
EITHER SINGLE OR IN A BLOCK. MIAMI TIX AFGAs WILLING TO PAY THE BIG I NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME FOR SALE Have 2 Stud. TOGETHER CALL THERESA@ 3617 BUCKS!! CALL JEFF@ #4352 GAMES BRIAN 2049 2 AIR FORCE GA'S Call X2169 with best offer 
YELLOW 18 CU. FT best offer, call x4500 I NEED MIAMI AND PITT TIX REFRIGERATOR-NO Selling! II 2 50yd. Air Force GA's, 5 4-SALE: 4 AIR FORCE, 3 MIAMI CALL PAT 234-8608 PROBLEMS $50 CALL 287-2587 Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John Air Force STUD, & 3 Miami STUD STUD TIX 234-2728 
xt220 EJ x1053 For Sale I HATE MIAMI AND I WANT TO 2 Miami GA's SELL YOU MY STD. TIX. BEST Need 4 GA's for AIR FORCE. Call 1 Miami Student Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at OFFER! II CALL 273-9316 
II ST. LOUIS I! Need 2 GA's for Penn St Julia X3505 t Air Force 283-1 818 and leave a message. 1 way SB to StL or rnd trip call Ryan x 1 048 Call Jim at 2298 WANTED: 2 G.A TICKETS FOR nonstop tix 4 SALE FOR SALE: Miami & AF STUD Need 2 GA's and 2 STUDS for TENN. GAME. (404) 923-4707. lv Oct21 pair, AF GA. Best Offer by Miami. Call Bob at 233-8959. (rtn Oct 28) 2 STANFD & AIR FORCE TIX FOR Fri.x3253. Two(2) MIAMI GA's for SALE MAKE A DREAM COME TRUE I Dan 2385 or 4655 SALE 272-6459 call277-5745 between For Sale: 2 Stud Miami Tix Divorced Alum Dad in Houston has 
I NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS I 9:00 am -5:00 pm. BO by Thurs X2206 plane, car, and hotel. Need Miami CALL TOM @ X 2259. Leave best offer on machine. Tix for GAME on son's 12th FOR SALE 1 Miami Stud Tix I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs & ••••••••so YD. LINE••••••• Birthday; PLEASE HELP; Only call X 1346 PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE 4 SALE: 2 MIAMI STUD. TIX & INDULGE YOURSELF I!II need 2; Call Collect (713) 524­CALL CARRIE AT 4049 1 PENN ST. X 2620, MARIE MIAMI STUDENT 7604 after 7. 
TIX FOR SALE 87 Fiero GT, loaded, mmt end, I NEED 1 AIR FORCE G.A. FOR LV. OFFER CHRIS #4817 1 Air Force stud tix for sale. org. owner, black, $7900/b.o. MIAMI TIX FOR SALE I HAVE 2 SETS OF AIR FORCE LITTLE BROTHER COMING UP. Call Kate x 40454.
••••••••50 YD. LINE••••••• 273-9349 G.A.'S AT THE 50 YD. LINE. CALL 2336 WED. OR THU. DAVE X3024 GREAT SEATS! CALL FRANK AT SELL 2 STD MIAMI 1 AIR F X3646. LEAVE NAME AND HELP! I NEED 2 AF GA'S 1 PENN ST • I NEED AIR FORCE GA. OFFER IF NOT HOME CALL JOHN X4 141 CALL LUIS 273-1528 • FOR BIG $$$ PLEASE CALL • 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE: MONEY IS NO OBJECT CHRISTA x1267 Tickets for all remaining home NEED!! 2 Air Force GA's NEED AIR FORCE G.A. 
Need $$$?Sell games. MIKE X1626 your ga's to all Chris 233-5882 I have one stud tix I AM SELLING AF STUD home games. Call Joe X1688 for Air Force and Tlx·cALL 284-5t2t Call tom xt597. Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET Miami call Jenny G AIR FORCE 2 GA'S & 2 STUD 
Call x2453 284-4292 w/best offer. 4 SALE X 1167 
see CLASS I page 17 


Scoreboard 
page 14 Thursday, October 11, 1990 
NFL STANDINGS 
TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
By The Associated Press By The Associated PressBy The Associated Press 
BASEBALL All Times EDT 
All Times EDT 
American League WALES CONFERENCE 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Named Mickey White Patrick Division w L T Pel PF PA director of scouting. w L T Pis GF GA Buffalo 
East 
4 1 0 .800 130 99 National League New Jersey 2 1 1 5 15 13 
Miami 4 1 0 .800 108 73 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Fired Sandy Alomar Sr., Pittsburgh 2 1 0 4 17 12 Indianapolis 2 3 0 
.400 81 108 third base coach. Announced they will pick up the NY Rangers 2 2 0 4 17 14 
N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 . 400 104 109 option on the contract of Allee Hammaker, pitcher . NY Islanders 1 2 0 2 7 10 New England 1 0 80 152 1 0 9
4 .200 Philadelphia 2 2 9 
BASKETBALL Washington 1 2 0 2 12 15Central 
1 .800 National Basketball Association Adams Division 
Cincinnati 4 0 137 105 
3 .400 114 MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Agreed to terms Boston 3 0 0 6 16 4
Cleveland 2 0 78 
2 3 0 . 400 98 108 with Gerald Glass, guard, on a three-year contract . Montreal 2 0 1 5 14 11 Pittsburgh 2 3 0 .400 68 84 Waived Glenn Puddy, center. and Brian Rowsom, Hartford 2 1 1 5 15 15 'Wfi5I, forward. Quebec 1 2 3 14 20.... 
LA Raiders 4 0 99 Buffalo 2 11 13 Houston 
1 .800 73 SEATTLE SUPERSONICS-Agreed to terms with 0 1 
Gary Payton, guard. 
Kansas City 3 2 0 .600 117 71 
0 .400 124 127 Continental Basketball Association CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Seattle 2 3 0 .400 108 104 LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Steve Mitchell, Norris Division San Diego 1 4 0 .200 75 w Denver 2 3 
105 guard. L T Pis GF GA Chicago 2 1 0 4 11 9 NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
FOOTBALL St. Louis 2 1 0 4 9 10 National Football League Detroit 1 2 1 3 15 21 w L T Pel PF PA BUFFALO BILLS-Placed Mark Kelso, defensive Minnesota 1 3 0 2 11 16 
East 
N.Y. Giants 4 0 0 1.000 106 47 back, on injured reserve. Toronto 0 4 0 0 9 22 
1 0 .750 101 51 GREEN BAY PACKERS-Traded Brent Fullwood, Smythe Division Dallas 2 3 0 .400 70 102 running back, to the Cleveland Browns for an Calgary 3 1 0 6 16 11 Philadelphia 1 3 0 .250 91 95 undisclosed draft pick. Los Angeles 2 1 0 4 13 9 
Washington 3 3 0 .250 40 118 KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Waived Pete Mandley, Edmonton 1 0 1 3 6 5Phoenix 
wide receiver. Winnipeg 1 1 1 3 13 8 Chicago 4 1 0 .800 104 66 MIAMI DOLPHINS-Placed African Grant, safety, on Vancouver 1 2 0 2 10 12 Tampa Bay 
Central 
3 2 0 .600 108 110 injured reserve. Re-signed Jeff Faulkner, defensive 
Detroit 2 3 0 .400 117 126 end. Waived Basil Proctor, linebacker. Signed Stacy A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 Green Bay 2 3 0 
.400 89 120 Searels, guard-center, to the reserve squad . 
Minnesota 1 4 0 .200 116 103 MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Waived Rich Karlis, The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes in 'Wfi5I, placekicker; J.J. Flannigan, running back; and James 
parentheses, records through Oct. 6, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point
4 0 0 1.000 82 59 Harper, offensive tackle. Activated Alfred Anderson, Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 102 94 running back, and David Huffman, guard, from for a 25th-place vote, and last week's rankings: LA Rams 1 3 0 .250 111 111 injured reserve. 
San Francisco 
Record Pts Pvs 
New Orleans 3 0 .250 70 80 NEW YORK JETS-Placed Dave Cadigan, guard, on injured reserve. 1. Michigan (34) 3-1-0 1,453 3
Sunday's Games Detroit 34, Minnesota 27 2. Virginia (14) 5-0-0 1,384 4 Indianapolis 23, Kansas City 19 World League of American Football Atlanta 28, New Orleans 27 WLAF-Named Bryan Broaddus, Jeff Beathard, Terry 
3. Miami, Fla. (6) 3-1-0 1,324 9 Miami 20, New York Jets 16 McDonough, Kenny King, Derrick Jensen. Lionel 4. Oklahoma (1) 5-0-0 1,244 7 Pittsburgh 36, San Diego 14 Vital and Mike Maccagnan to the scouting staff. 
5. Tennessee (1) 3-0-2 1,235 6
San Francisco 24, Houston 21 Seattle 33, New England 20 HOCKEY 6. Auburn 3-0-1 1,176 5 Dallas 14, Tampa Bay 10 National Hockey League 
7. Nebraska (2) 5-0-0 1,145 8
Cincinnati 34, Los Angeles Rams 31, OT HARTFORD WHALERS-Signed Jergus Baca, Chicago 27, Green Bay 13 defenseman, to a multiyear contract. 8. Notre Dame 3-10 1,122 Buffalo 38, Los Angeles Raiders 24 PHILADELPHIA FLYEAS-Assigned Dale Kushner, 
9. Florida (1) 5-0-0 1,017 10OPEN DATE: New York Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Washington left wing, to Hershey of the American Hockey 10. Florida St. 4-1-0 993 2
Monday's Game League. Cleveland 30, Denver 29 VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Named Steve Tambellini 11. Illinois 3-1-0 796 13 Sunday's Games director of public relations and Steve Frost director of 
12. Houston (1) 4-0-0 763 13
San Francisco at Atlanta, 1 p.m. hockey information. Cincinnati at Houston, 1 p.m. International Hockey league 13. Brigham Young 4-1-0 751 11 Detroit at Kansas City, 1 p.m. SAN DIEGO GULLS-Obtained Darcy Norton, 
14. Colorado 4-1-1 705 12
Cleveland at New Orleans, 1 p.m. center, and Clark Donatelli, left wing, on loan from San Diego at New York Jets, 1 p.m. the Minnesota North Stars. 15. Clemson 5-1-0 690 16 Green Bay at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. 
16. Southern Cal 4-1-0 667 15 Pittsburgh at Denver, 4 p.m. SOCCER 
Seattle at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Major Soccer League 17. Washington 4-1-0 648 17 
Dallas at Phoenix, 4 p.m. CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Signed Rudy Pikuzinski, 18. Georgia Tech 4-0-0 451 23 New York Giants at Washington, 4 p.m. forward. 
19. Oregon 4-1-0 424 22
Los Angeles Rams at Chicago, 7:30 p.m. OPEN DATE: Buffalo, Indianapolis, Miami, New England COLLEGE 20. Texas A&M 4-1-0 395 19 FRANKLIN & MARSHALL-Named William Dirrigl 
21. Arizona 4-1-0 319 25
men's lacrosse coach, Dan Fahringer men's assistant basketball coach, Rebecca Lovett women's 22. Indiana 4-0-0 212 assistant basketball coach and Gwyn J. MacMurray 
6-0-0
LCS COMPOSITE BOXES 23. Wyoming 132 
assistant swimming coach. JACKSONVILLE-Announced the resignation of 24. Mississippi 4-1-0 93 
National League Playoffs John Randall, women's golf coach. 25. Iowa 3-1-0 86 Compoalte Box NEW HAMPSHIRE-Announced Bob Kullen, hockey 
Other receiving votes: Texas 76, Ohio St. 47, Texas Christian 43, Stanford 25, Michigan St. 24, Syracuse 
Cincinnati leads 3-2 coach, temporarily left the team due to medical By The Associated Press problems. Named Dick Umile interim hockey coach. 16, South Carolina 15, Alabama 5, Toledo 4, Arkansas 3, California 3, Louisville 3, Missouri 3, Colorado BATTING SUMMARY 
St. 2, Penn St. 2, S. Mississippi 2, LSU 1, N. Illinois 1.
PITTSBURGH 
ab r h 2b 3b tr rbl avg Bream 1b 8 1 4 1 0 1 3 .500 Bell ss 17 3 5 1 0 1 1 GAME 4 ALCS BOX SCORE
.294 Redus 1b 7 1 2 0 0 0 0 .286 Lind 2b 18 1 5 1 1 1 2 .278 
ATHLETICS 3, REO SOX 1
VanSlyke c1 20 3 5 1 1 0 3 .250 
BOSTON OAKLANDMartinez 1b 18 0 4 1 0 0 1 .222 
ab r h bl ab r h blReynolds rl 9 0 2 0 0 0 0 .222 
Burks ct 4 1 1 0 RHndsn ~ 3 0 1 0
Bonds~ 17 3 3 0 0 0 1 .176 
Reed 2b 4 0 1 1 DHndsn ct 4 0 0 0Drabek p 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 .167 
Boggs 3b 4 0 2 0 Canseco r1 3 0 0 0Beckman 3b 7 1 1 1 0 0 0 .143 
Greenwl 4 0 Jennngs rl 0 0
Slaught c 7 0 1 1 0 0 1 .143 ~ 0 0 1 0 
Pena c 3 0 0 0 Baines dh 3 0 1 0King 3b 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 .125 
Evans dh 3 0 0 0 McGeepr 0 0 0 0LVIIIere c 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Brnnsky rf 3 0 0 0 Hassey ph 0 0 0 0Walkp 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Quintan 1b 2 0 0 0 Blnksp pr 0 0 0 0Smith p 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Rivera ss 3 0 0 0 Lansfrd 3b 3 1 1 0
Totals 158 14 35 8 2 3 13 .222 
Steinbch c 3 0 2 0 McGwir 1b 2 1 0 1CINCINNATI Rndlph 2b 2 1 0 0ab r h 2b 3b tr rbl avg Gallego ss 3 0 1 2Benzingr 1b 6 0 3 0 0 0 0 .500 
Totals 30 1 4 1 Totals 27 3 6 3
ONeillrl 15 1 7 3 0 1 4 .467 Morris 1b 12 3 5 1 0 0 1 .417 
Boston 000 000 001-1
Duncan 2b 17 1 5 0 0 1 4 .294 
Oakland 030 ooo oox-3Winnghm cl 7 1 2 1 0 0 1 .286 
E-{3reenwell. DP-Boston 2, Oakland. LOB--Boston 3, Oakland 5. 2B--Gallego, Burks. SB--RHenderson (2), Blankenship (1 ).
Sabo 3b 18 1 5 0 0 1 3 .278 Hatcher cl 11 2 3 1 0 1 2 .273 
p H R ER Ell so
Braggs rl 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 .250 
~ 
Larkin ss 19 4 4 2 0 0 1 .211 
Clemens L, 0-1 1 2-3 3 3 3 1 0Ollverc 10 1 2 0 0 0 0 .200 
Bo~on 2 2-3 2 0 0 2 3
Davis If 19 2 3 1 0 0 1 .158 
Gray 2 2-3 1 0 0 0 2
Reed c 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Andersen 1 0 0 0 1 2
Rljop 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Oakland
Browning p 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Stewart W, 2-0 8 4 1 1 1 1Dibble p 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Honeycutt S, 1 1 0 0 0 0 0
Oester 2b 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Jackson p 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Quinones ph 1 0 0 0 1 GAME 4 NLCS BOX SCORE
1 0 .000 Totals 159 18 40 9 0 4 18 .252 REDS 5, PIRATES 3
OAKLAND 
PITTSBURGH ab r h 2b 3b tr ab r h bl ab r h bl 
CINCINNATI 
Quirk ph 1 0 rbl avg 1 0
1 
Randolph 2b 6 1 0 0 0 0 1.000 Hatcherct Larkin ss 5 0 0 0 0 0 Bckmn 3b 4 4 1 1
0 3 0 4 0 Bellss 1 
DHndsn ct .500
2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 0Neillr1 4 1 3 1 VanSiykcf 4 1 1 1
1
Lansford 3b .500 
Gallego 2b 7 13 1 1 3 6 0 1 0 0 2 Morris 1b Davis If 4 4 2 1 3 1 0 0 Bonillart Bonds~ 3 4 0 0 1 1 0 0
.462 
0 0 0
Steinbach c .429
8 2 3 0 0 Sabo 3b 3 1 2 3 Bream 1b 3 0 1 1
0 1
Baines dh .375
11 2 4 1 0 0 Reedc 3 0 0 0 LVIIiere c 3 0 0 0 
Hassey c 3 .364
3 0 1 0 0 0 0 Ollverc 1 0 0 0 Lind 2b 4 0 2 0 
RHndsn If .333
14 1 4 0 0 Duncan 2b 3 0 1 0 Walkp 2 0 0 0 
Canseco rl .286
8 3 2 0 0 0 0 3 Bnzngr ph 0 0 0 0 Rynlds ph 0 0 0 0
1 .250
McGeect 9 3 2 1 0 0 0 Oester2b 0 0 0 0 Powerp 0 0 0 0 
McGwire1b .222
11 1 2 0 0 0 1 Rijo p 3 0 0 0 King ph 1 0 0 0 
Weiss ss 7 2 0 .182 0 0
0 0 0 0 .000 Myers p 0 0 Totals 100 
17 32 3 0 0 15 .320 Quinns ph 0 0 0 1 Dibble p 0 0 0 0 BOSTON Totals 34 5 10 5 Totals 32 3 8 3 
ab r h 2b 3b tr rbl avgBoggs 3b 12 
1 5 1 0 1 1 .417 Cincinnati 000 200 201-5 Rivera ss 6 1 2 1 0 0 0 .333 Pittsburgh 100 100 01 Q-3
Marshall ph 
3 0 1 0 0 0 0 E-Larkin. DP--cinclnnati 1, Pittsburgh 1. LOB---{;incinnati 5, Pittsburgh 6. 2B--Backman, Bream, ONeill, Bonilla, Morris.
.333
Evans dh 10 0 3 1 0 0 SB--Backman (1), VanSlyke (1). Bonds (1). SF-Sabo, Quinones.
0 .300
Burksct 11 
0 3 1 0 0 0 .273
Pena c ·:· 
11 0 3 0 0 0 0 .273 p H R ER Ell so 
Brunnsky rf 9 0 1 0 0 0 1 .111 CincinnatiReed 2b 11 
0 1 0 0 0 0 .091 RijoW, 1-0 7 6 3 3 4 7 
Quintana 1b 11 
0 0 0 0 0 1 .000 Myers 1 2 0 0 0 1 
Greenwell~ 10 0 0 2
1 0 0 0 0 .000 DibbleS, 1 1 0 0 0 Heap ph 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pltt8burgh
.000 .198
iollita 96 3 19 4 0 3 WalkL, 1-1 7 7 4 4 0 3 Power 2 3 1 1 1 2 


~~---------~---··~ ----~ -----~--­


. . 
~:'. '.~:~: 
\ • ' • l ... ~. • • ' 
Det~ry ii1!U trlllllta to ensure Silt 01111rno ~1990 Oommos Plm Inc. 
® 
IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA~ 
Call Us! 
271-0300 289-0033 Open for lunch! 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 
--------
---------------.,I 
I
UNDAY DOUBLE EARLY WEEK 2 LARGE PIZZAS 
I
FEATURE SPECIAL 
I
1 TOPPING
I I I
$5.99 $4.99
I I $10.95 I I Get llarge original pizza I pizzas with t)le t~pipcf of I with.the to~p~ ofaour I Get 2 large or~inal I 
pizzas with y9ur avorite1
ali I cho1ce. Va 1d on ays I 
topptng. 1
Sundays only. I and Tuesdays only.. I I I I I I
e1 Jll®
f)
• I : ® I I 
j
I ~loci lA :»rtJOI).Itrno Slam (lilly No« valid ..m 1/'Pf 011\ef oftlt' Pnas I 'hhd II pJI1ICII).lllll9 startS only Nol valid wtltlllly olt1ff ollet Pnca I 
:ult1 ~~ wfltl1! IO()IIU~ Qewwry MUS rn.ry '4') CuSJ~r Pl't1 ~s ,.. wfltft .tQCJIIUOII Otwrrt nu rNy vJry Customtr I).1YS SJIH r.u wfltl1 J~. Otll-..ry ~~US Out d~ c.arry Ins INn S2000 I kmted :o enW<t ute """"'0 Out~~~,., CJtTY leSS~ S2000 I kmlt<d 10 ensu111 ule dtmnO Our dn¥el'1 c.arry laS II\M'I 120.00. I Out ar-.n "~ noc Deft.llti'N tor~~~ Our drMI'1 .1~ nol DeftJI!nd lot ~~ ~ 


--------~-----------­
page 16 
Notebook 
continued from page 20 
"Forget the national championship," Holtz continued. "Forget the other things. We've got some things that we've got to answer for ourselves right now. We made a commitment to be the very best we can possibly be. We made a commitment to play every single football game to the best of our abilities, and that is what we are going to do." 
And that is something another week is not going to change. 
It runs iil the family. Holtz expected the worst when he consulted Head Trainer Jim Russ following last week's Stanford game. 
What he found, however, was a surprisingly healthy Irish 
Tickets 
continued from page 20 
Ignorance of the law doesn't 
count when the law is printed 
on the ticket. 
If anything, Cunningham could probably expect an increase in confiscated tickets with Miami playing in Notre Dame Stadium next weekend and then Penn State coming in November. 
Cunningham is caught with his hands tied this season. A computer check matching the tickets with the original purchasers would be lengthy and costly. But the results of that check would help pinpoint the problem, especially if the same people sell their tickets each game. 
Another possibility -and a good one at that -would mean a return to the old system of issuing all the tickets in one book. It would mean more re­sponsibility for the students, but it would cut down significantly on the number of scalped tickets. 
lew York · 
Shakespeare Festiwal 
• LIVE ON 
: STAGE ••• • • •• •
• 
Wednesday Oct. 17, 

8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 

• 
Tickets Available At Auditorium · 

• 
Box Office, LaFortune Info Desk. And All Usual Outlets 


r e Charge Your Tickets At e 
284-9190 squad. 
"I thought we would have something like 50 injuries after that game," said Holtz. "We have so many people banged up who are trying to hide it from the trainers. That tells you something about this team." 
The only players expected to miss Saturday's Air Force game are tailback Tony Brooks (swollen ankle) and his brother, cornerback Reggie Brooks (injured shoulder)." 
Down and out. Former Irish inside linebacker Ned Bolcar, a fifth-round draft choice of the Seattle Seahawks, tore cartilage in his knee last Sunday in a game against the New England Patriots. He will be out for the season. 
For now, Cunningham can 
only appeal to the morals of the student body. And probably count the confiscated tickets again next Monday morning. 
We're Fighting Fm Your Life. ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
Notre Dame/St. sCommunity 
Across the nation today, people are stepping out of secret _ and friends know something about themselves that they had previously kept hidden. As part of National Coming Out oa¥.~-&ctVs ancOeSbli!6ffn. the United States are proudly (and perhaps alittle anxiously) revealing themselves as lesbians and gay people. It will be quite show pride in themselves openly, perhaps tor the first time in their lives. 
For many, arriving at that point has involved jumping Because of vast misunderstandings and misperceptions about sexuality, people who are lesbian and gay face loss of job and reality of emotional and physical assaults, and, sadly, the loss of 
family and friends. 
are students who have come out ~Dtembers. And once you have l*tiJtJOuDie life, being extra careful 
to awhole new life and 
to a fearful environment bigoted slams. Be sensitive and anger they may feel. If 
rt~:tmihl,ritvor oppressed group. People ~xuat QQ1enta1tion must constantly fight for elVes ®Clre!ISed have afilial obligation to 
Palrtcla E. Tierney, 
Chris VIRIIn Bossche, DepnnartaEnglish 
.Iaine VIdal, ~ Dame Staff 
J.lllchael Yen, Na1ional Coming Out DayCommitile 
Janwl Walon, Depmlentof Ergli&h 
Mril Wohon, Depmlentof Ecanomic& 
-----~------­
The Observer Thursday, October 11 , 199 
Irish clubs ready for weekend 
Last weekend was the Weekend of Champions. This weekend, Irish club sports will face similar obstacles. The clubs' team members hope that they will fare better than their varsity counterparts. 
0 0 0 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will compete this weekend at the Head of the Elk, which will run through Elkhart on the St. Joseph's River. 
Over 1200 athletes from across the country will compete in the race, a 3.85­mile upstream struggle. 
Last year, the Notre Dame varsity crew won all but two races at the Head of the Elk. Club President Barton Richards is confident that this year's team will do as well. 
"How are we planning on doing? We're going to win," said Richards. 
Notre Dame will send over 110 boaters to the event. The crew will compete in seven different events. 
0 0 0 
Last weekend, a Notre Dame success story could be found in Chicago, where the Rugby Club played the Chicago Area Rugby Football 
An Open~~ to the 
Rolando de Aguiar Club Corner 
Union Tournament. The Irish played in the eight-team college division, and left the tournament champions outscoring opponents by a combined score of 114-13 in capturing the crown. 
Northern Illinois provided the most competition for the Irish squad, as they held Notre Dame to a 24-4 win in the semifinal. Notre Dame earlier beat the University of Chicago 42-3. Even more impressive for the Irish offense is that both of these games were played with 30-minute halves, rather than the conventional 40-minute periods. 
The final game of the tourne, went the duration. Northwestern likely wishes it had been ruled a TKO, as the Irish bloodied the Huskies in a 48-6 win. 
Coach Art Maelander's troops have suffered losses only to Bowling Green and Michigan. 
The Irish will face Kalamazoo this weekend at Stepan Field. This team will be a tough opponent for Notre Dame. 
0 0 
0 
Notre Dame's Boxing Club will hold an organizational meeting at 9:00 tonight in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Beginning after fall break, the club will hold novice training, which will continue until Thanksgiving. Training will cover boxing basics, as well as conditioning. 
The major function of the Boxing Club is the Bengal Bouts. The money raised from this tournament goes to the Bengal Missions of Holy Cross. In past years, the club has raised from $12,000­$20,000 for the Bangladeshi missions. 
0 0 0 
ND Sailing will be competing in two regattas this weekend. The team will send squads to Lake Forest for the Lake Forest Regatta and to Columbus, Ohio for the Ohio State Fall Regatta. 
or all of their out to your friends, you say or who you 

The Observer 
Thursday, October 11, 1990 page 17 
Men's soccer falls to Butler in Overtime; LaVigne TKO'd 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team failed to score a goal for the sixth time in seven games Tuesday night in a 2-0 overtime loss at Butler. 
Although the Irish held their opponents scoreless in regula­tion, the Bulldogs broke the ice 
3:10 into the overtime when Jeff Kurtz blasted a shot past Notre Dame goalie Peter Gulli off an indirect kick outside the penalty box. Butler's Talor Kumler added an insurance goal late in the overtime. 
Notre Dame had numerous opportunities to score in regu­lation. 
"The (Butler) defenders probably cleared five or six goals off the goal line," said senior Irish co-captain Paul LaVigne. "If you could have seen how many times our for­wards raised their arms in the air thinking they had a goal, only to see the ball cleared away, you wouldn't have be­lieved it." 
The overtime loss broke a three-game Notre Dame un­beaten streak and dropped the Irish to 3-8-3 on the season. It also overshadowed another solid defensive performance for coach Mike Berticelli's squad. For the fourth straight game, the Irish did not allow a goal in regulation. But the Notre Dame forwards couldn't convert. 
"The best you can do if you don't score a goal is tie," LaVigne said. "It's getting ridiculous. It's true that we haven't allowed goals in regula­tion the past four games, and that's big for (goalkeeper) Peter Gulli, but more than anything, we come away realizing that we didn't score a goal again. 
"We're doing everything we can out there, but we still couldn't score a goal to save our lives. You can sense the ur­gency to score a goal when you're out there on the field. Maybe we are trying too hard, but it definitely is constantly on our minds out there." 
The Irish will take a couple of days off to heal their wounds after playing three games in five days. Their next scheduled match is on Oct. 19 against Xavier at Krause Stadium. 
"We can use some time off," said LaVigne, who was knocked unconscious for a couple of minutes against Butler but went back into the game. "We have played three overtime games in the past eight days, and let me tell you, those games take their toll." 
Class 
continued from page 13 FOR SALE 2 Miami student tix. Best offer by 10/14. Leave Message x4988 
Have 1 Air Force student ticket-reasonable price. Ask for Shubie '4761 
DESPARATE: I need MIAMI tixl Will pay $$$11-Kristi x4231. 
I NEED 8 PENN ST. GA's AND ALL I HAVE IS $$$ CALL TIM @283-2704 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA #2790 
FOR SALE: TWO MIAMI AND 1 
AIR FORCE STUD TIX. CALL 
KEVIN AT X1409 
SELLING ALL STUD TIX-BEST OFFER-EILEEN 284-4253 
4 SALE: 3 MIAMI STUD TIX BEST OFFER-273-9088 
A GOOD REASON FOR LIVING ­ND FOOTBALL! NEED 9 GA TIX FOR MIAMI AND 5 FOR AIR FORCE.t-262-4990. CALL NOW 
Need Air Force Stu Tix? Call Fong @2729041 
1 MIAMI Stud Tix for sale Make Offer Shari x3781 
Need Miami student tix. badly I Call Paul at x1755 
Sale 4 A-F & 4 Miami stud x1290 
1 pair Air Force, Miami, & Penn St. for sale 273-9349 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S Call Matt x4235 
1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE CALL MARY X1727 
1 AF studtix 4 sale -cheap x1714 John 
We are selling two MIAMI student tickets next to each other. Call NOW with best offer-4321 or 4354. 
Need AIR FORCE GAs and stud tix. Call Darrell at 283-3302. 
~~. !~l.!~~~ 
0 vou £! A <J\1<!11
.........._
....._ .. 
Dinner for 2 for $8.99 save over $2.50 
Pick ony two C.•wm<t Sondwict..._ 
I have one Stud tix for Miami Call Jennie T 284-4292 
I need three Miami GA's and one Stud tix call Tim at 1416 
Yes, Yes, Yes I do Have 2 stu tixs Just for you 2AF, 2MIAMI too 255-5283 
FOR SALE: One MIAMI Student ticket. Call Clem or John (x1177) with best offer. 
FOR SALE: 2 AF stud & AF m. stud. Resonable price Call Tom X 3697 
Who's kidding who? I NEED Tix for Air Force BADLY. GAs or Studs. Call Dan 289-0002 
two Gordon Solad1, plus~d>oic:e Of I fotendt Fries ot Onion •nd :! 
hiag
Miru••rw:l~ 
ex iralion date 10/21 
~-----­
Sundae 
One Way Flight to NY-La Guar 
99t 
Leave 10/20 after Miami game 
Buy any size sWldae and 
7:50PM. Price negot. Call Jim x1858 
L_ -~•""""'~of tl< 
stud. tix #489-9660 X1511 

A FREE Seminar for SENIOR YEAR NursingStudents

9 
Transition is a one-day program 
designed to help you make the 
transition from student to
I professional. Saturday, October 27, 1990 This no-cost seminar includes 
sessions, lunch and breaks. Mayo 
Medical Center will cover the cost of 
lodging for out-of-town participants 
at the Kahler Hotel. 
Sessions include: 
• Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 
I 
• Coping Measures for the 
Oncology Nurse 
• 
Financial planning for the Young Professional 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
Discharge Planning for Senior Adults: Special Needs for Special People 

• 
Overview of Organ Transplantation 

• 
Preparing for the job Search 

• 
Technological Advances in Outpatient Surgery 


Deadline for re~i.WJ/ion is Oct. 1i', 1991! 
Call collect 507-286-7030 for registration information and brochure. 
Transition is sponsored by 
Mayo Medical Center 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
1\n Alltrm.llll'<' Acti<Jn/1:(/u,JI ( >pportuml\ tmplm•<•r 
I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay 
lots of money for them, and will 
give you my first-born as well. Flo 
x1696. 
I need 4 Penn St. GA's. I will pay 
lots of money for them, and will 
give you my first-born as well. Flo 
x1696 . 
I PERSONALS
I I L 
CARA ECKMAN, LISA GUNSOREK, MARIA BLOHM, KERRY CLAIR, JOY HARRIS, KEARA IRVINE, LUKE LYTELL, JENNIFER McCARTER, ANNE McCARTHY, KELLY McHUGH, JOY MUELLER, TONY PAGANELLLI. CHRISSIE ROSSI, DANNIKA SIMPSON, MARIO SIGUENZA AND JEAN-PHILIPPE THOLE-Your company is 
requested this Sunday, October 14 
at the Ad Design meeting to be 
held at the Observer office. See 
you then. Love, Amy. 
test #3 
Need 1 Miami GA Call Kevin X1477 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYII To my buddy from Plano, from your friend in the sports dept. P.S, -enjoy the 'za? 
CAROLINE The sources of my entertain­ment would frazzle the mind and weaken the knees of the likes of you, little one. Any questions? 
AVID 
BUTTONS!!! BUTTONS Ill Who's got the BUTTONS??? 
Oh where, Oh where can the BUTTONS be found? Oh where, Oh where can they be?l? 
HERE THEY ARE/II WE'VE GOT 'EMil! Parents' Football Weekend 
BUTTONS will be available at these locations this weekend: -Lat. Info Desk -Glee Club/Stud. Gov'VJazz 
Band Dessert Reception -"Casino Night" -Alumni Hospitality Center 
•• and they're FREEIW' HAPPY 21st ALYSSA-One less thing to be obsessed about. Keep looking at those toes I 1 hope today is great I Ill 
love ya-Nan 
......................... 
Reinke, I love you! Pedro Cozzillno 
........................ 
Elizabeth-Anne Crisp, you have made us very proud to be your grandparents. Happy Birthday, "Meme" and "Beck" 
I really need a ride to the Philadelphia, New Jersey area after the Miami game. Will help pay and all. 
Bill-2340 
KARIN GRACE IS THE ANTI­ELVIS I 
THEODORE'S Stop by Theodore's Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday and dance to the tunes of your favorite DJs: Thursday -Roy Landry Friday -Joe Watson Saturday -John Yang 
sdgf 
Today is ANN "POOH" BALINT'S 
21st Birthdayll/11 Call and wish her a happy birthday today! 284-430611 
«LONG ISLAND BUS» Seats going fast I Cal.l now to reserve spot on '1he bus from HELL"! Joni 1839,Janice 2993 & get$ in by 10/16! 
MARY GARINO IN D.C. 
1. 
Be good 

2. 
If you can't be good, be careful 


3, If you can't be careful, name it after me 
same size far 99t Happy Birthday to the Soehnlen 
GOING TO OR THROUGH House of Iron /II
::~=~~~a!_10/21 I 
KNOXVILLE. TN -OCT. BRK ­Love, the 3 Mothers. 
AFTER MIAMI?? I NEED A FOR SALE: 2 Miami married RIDE;WILL SHARE$$ CALL 
ANDI KELLY COYLA O'CONNOR I really wanted to give you guys a personal to embarass the heck out of you, but I know that paybacks are ... not fun. So pretend I put something in here tor you, and think how embarrassed you would have been. 
HELPIII Need a ride to Cleveland for October break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Kathie X4045111 
DRIVE STRAIGHT,
INDIANA. 
WEAR IT WITH Cl..ASS! 
In the name Of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful R LECTURE ON "GULF CRISIS: STATUS & POSSIBLE OUTCOMES" BY DR. SAM I RL -RRYRN, PROFESSOR, FLORI DR STATE UN IUERS ITY FRIDRY,OCTOBER 12,1990 4:30P.M. RT THEODORE'S ORGANIZED BY THE MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION OF NOTRE DAME  

~-----------------------------------------------------------------· 
The Observer
page 18 
Women's soccer beats Milw. 
Overcome cold and Panthers to raise record to 1 0-3-1 
By DANIEL TALBOT Sports Writer 
After being shutout by Creighton last weekend, the women's soccer team, led by freshman sensation Alison Lester, who had two goals, re­turned with a shutout of their own, defeating the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 3-0 last night at Krause Stadium. 
"We played very well tonight," said first-year coach Chris Petrucelli. "It is an important win. Any shutout is important." 
The shutout was accom­plished by a stringent Irish de­fense that held Wisconsin ­Milwaukee to only seven shots on goal. Goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga had four saves in recording her seventh shutout of the season. 
There may have been some worry about the defense due to the absence of fullback Shannon Jenkins, but with some adept 
moves by the coach the Irish were able to avoid defensive gaps. 
"We put Stephanie Porter in back for defense and moved Mimi Suba up to midfield, which worked out fine" said Petrucelli. 
The first and winning goal was scored by midfielder Marianne Giolitto at 11:23 of the first half. The goal gives her 19 points for the season, good enough for second on the team in that category. 
After the shutout this week­end, Petrucelli was worried about another offensive lapse last night, but hoped for an early spark. 
"Because we started off with the wind I felt it was important that we score a couple of goals in the first half, and we were able to accomplished that," stated Petrucelli. 
The incessant attacking of Lester and fellow forward Susie Zilvitis helped the Irish record 15 shots on goal, more than 
twice Wisconsin-Milwaukee's total. The second Irish goal came at 
21:09 of the first half, as Lester scored on an assist from Margaret Jarc. The combination of Jarc-to-Lester also provided the third goal on an indirect kick at 70:36. 
The two goals by Lester give her 10 for the season and 24 points, which leads the team. 
"Alison Lester took over the game," commended Petrucelli. " Her ability to work with team­mates and to finish plays is outstanding. I think she is the best freshman in the region." 
Coach Petrucelli heaped praise for the work of all the freshmen players, seven of whom start. 
'Tm very pleased with our freshmen," he said. "I don't feel our freshmen are freshmen anymore with the experience they've had. I'm not disap­pointed with any of them." 

Belles volleyball prepared for match up with Concordia 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
After a few days break from their grinding road schedule, the Saint Mary's Volleyball team resumes action tonight as the 
face  visiting  Concordia  
University.  
After  facing  Concordia  

tonight, the Belles will travel on Friday to face Nazareth College whom they beat earlier this season. On Saturday, they will be back at home to meet 11th­to play with confidence and consistency. 
"I think our performance has been strong, but inconsistent," said senior co-captain Michelle Sibilsky. " We are right there and we have the talent. We just need to get the consistency back into our game." 
Previous to last weekend's tournament, the Belles led the NCAA Division III in kills per game (15.3) and in assists per game (12.4). They were ranked centages (.250) and were third in service aces, averaging 3. 70 per game. 
Despite these impressive of­fensive numbers, the Belles have been plagued with a lack­luster performance on defense. 
"We're playing tentatively, waiting for the other team to set the tempo," coach Medley added. " We're allowing teams to get a string of four or five points on us in a row. We have 
ranked Calvin College. fifth as a team in hitting per-to get aggressive on defense." 
The Belles, looking to improve their 6-10 record after coming off of a four game loss last weekend at the University of Wisconsin Whitewater Tournament, have mixed emo­tions about tonight's game. 
"We've never played them and I've never seen them play, so I · don't know what to expect," said Belles head coach Sue Medley. "Physically, we're well prepared to play. We just need 
HAPPY
':••PROBABLY 
ONE OF THE BIRTHDAY TO MASTERPIECES OUR OF THIS DECADE!' 
WILD AND 
-Caryn James, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
CRAZY COUSIN 
"A TRIUMPHANT 
PERFORMANCE •••Isabelle Huppert 
LOVE YOU, 
has seized the 
TIMMY,
role of a lifetime." 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
PATRICK,
"PASSIONATE••• 
STEPHEN,
I was riveted." JOHNNY ADAMS 
FULL SERVICE FLORIS i 
Balloon Plants t:ouquets 
Bouquets Corsages Arrangemen Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Si 
r-----------------------,
110°/o OFF CASH AND CARR'fl 1 with SMC or NO student ID 1 
111e CrOMings JllaU
------------------------·
Soutb of Ulllvenlty Plll'k Mall Cinema at the Snlte Mishawaka. IN 46545 
5901 Grape Rd.
277-1291
FRiand SAT 7:30,9:30 
in action against IUSB, scored as the Irish beat Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
Irish volleyball ends losing streak 
Special to The Observer 15, 15-10. That stretched the Irish losing streak to seven 
The Notre Dame volleyball matches. team broke a seven-match Lori Miller led Loyola with losing streak in splitting a 22 kills and a .463 hitting pair of matches Tuesday night percentage, while Therese in Chicago. O'Neill added 15 kills. Jessica 
The Irish lost to Loyola in Fiebelkorn had 11 kills for the the first match but rebounded Irish. to defeat Marquette in the The Irish won the second 
nightcap. match over Marquette in four Loyola downed Notre Dame games, 5-15, 15-13, 15-3, 15­in four games, 15-6, 15-4, 11-9. 
~---e>  ND-SMC  
~  "S'  STUDENTS  
~~ ~~  

18th Annual Program 
~ <l,~ London Rome 

May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, JUSTICE EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, AND ITALIAN 
MEETING Monday Oct. 15th 
7:00pm Carroll Hall, SMC 
FR££ PIZZA 

**Past student and faculty participants will be .....,,..,,.,," 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
CJENTJEIR §1rJRJEJE1r 
100 Cen~er1 Mi§hawaJka 
--:rOttiGHT-­
Reggae Tonight 
with 
Tony Bell and Kutchie 
from Chicago, Illinois Showtime 9:30 p.m. 1/2 price admission with college ID Concert line 256-0710 
• 9 ot' t 1' I 1' ot 1' 1' ll. oo. ' 'I 1 • • •" ..• e • "1'
t. 


-----~-~ -----------------------------~ 
·, I . ~ '• 
Thursday, October 11, 1990 The Observer page 19 
·-., 

GOOD DAY ~ EH'? 
"Listen -I bought these here yesterday, and the 

'!GA Ill' II 
dang things won't stop squeaking!" 
: ~~ Open Forum : 
• 
~@} ,'l--Stand up and Deliver e : ~© 'SJe~ ~~ THIS AFTERNOON : 

• 
\\.\ v,o ~ 12 15PM e


• ~\\ 0 ~·'? ~0~ : 


e ©~. ~'().~' " 0e~ Fieldhouse Mall : e ~'\'~ ~ '\:0 " SUB MOVIES: e
~ ~~ ­
. 1 . C:J'(Q"( • • •
•
• STUDENT UNION BOARD•
.._•••....••..•....•••..•••.........•••••.••.••••••..•.••• 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
12 • 4 p.m. Arts and Letters Career Day. Lower level, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
2 p.m. Discussion of software developed for classes in philosophy, mathematics, writing and physics and the strategies for assuring that pedagogical needs drive tech­nological decisions. Associate Professor Joel Smith, Al­legheny College. Room 103, Computing Center and Math­ematics Building. Sponsored by the OUC, the College of Arts and Letters and NEXT Computer, Inc. 
4 p.m. Lecture, " The Argentinian Political Party Sys­tem: Can It work?" Torcuato di Tella, Universidad de Buenos Aires. Room 131, Declo Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and the department of sociology. 
4:15 p.m. Hibernian Lecture, "Paddy's Payback: The American Impact On Ireland," Professor Dennis Clark. Jlesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
4:15p.m. "Writing and Speech in Montaigne's Essais." Gerard Defaux,professor of French at Johns Hopkins University. Room 124, Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by de­partment of romance languages and literatures. 
4:30 p.m. Tour of Freimann Life Science Center, ani­mal research facility by Robert Spence, manager of bio­logical sciences. Room 101, Galvin. Sponsored by the Bi­ology Club. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "The Renaissance Mechanism." William Kerrigan, department of English, University of Mas­sachusetts, Amherst. Galvin Life Science Auditorium. Sponsored by the program of liberal studies and the English department. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "Religion in a Changing Soviet Union: A Hussian Orthodox View." Deputy head of the publishing department, Mikhail Scherbachev, Russian Orthodox Church, Moscow. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Spon­sored by department of theology. 
8:10 p.m. Studio Series Production, KTrojan Women," Washington Hall. 
9 p.m. Film, KBells of Saint Mary's." Game Room, Hag­gar Collf1ge Center. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
A M 0 Y E L 0 P E T 0 L A 10 Pulsation
I 
30 Female gonadM A D A.AU T ~E R F L Y 11 Bring home the
B oT 
32 Bears, to Ovid
P R E D A T 0 R R E T I A bacon 33 Shea levels
···~one~w ENE~ 12Anin-lawofthe 
S A T E E N C A N A P~ Borgias 34 Certain Spanish 
o M E N s A T o N• s AIW 13 ---majeste paintings 
R 0 M E 0 E T J U L I E T T E 21 Bird allied to a 36 Actor Belushi, by birth
T UP. F.AU M REIN jay
E S T A 1 N F ~R R E T 22 Caribbean 38 Namesakes of a K I N D C A T witchcraft Spanish queen
•A B E A M M 01:1 T G A G E 25 Gambols 
41 Lend­G 0 T T~R D A M M E R U N G 26 In any way (listen)
I 
27 Horeb A L 0 E U N I T E A R A G 29 Control a race 42 Most lucid R E N D T A M E R B A T S horse's speed 47Top---(A1) 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

ACROSS 
1 Lion's hangout 5 "Thy word is --unto my feet ...": Psalm 119 10 Command to Fido 14 Within: Comb. 
form 15 Not now 16 Take the edge 
off 17 "They have spread-­...":Psalm 140 18 What Berra once guarded 
19 Partner of crafts 
20 Nay or neigh 
23lnlet 
241.o.u., e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE C 0 L D B E S 0 M S L A M 
25 Ethiopian prince 28 Rain of Spain collector 31 Confutes 35 Of the ear 37 Chalet feature 39 Eagle's abode 40 lte or clam chowder 43Without embellishment 44 Of a time period 45 Snappish 46 Broke bread, in away 48 Belgian stream 50 Ar-tee connection 51 River of Switzerland 53 Broadcast 
CROSSWORD 
55 Being or begin 63 Aneighbor of Ghana 64 From bad to 
65 Pop drink 66 Kazan of 
Hollywood 67 Les ---Unis &&One of the 
Alcotts 69When both 
hands are up 10 Adjust the clock 71 Eft 
DOWN 
1Awife of Jacob 2 Part of A.D. 3 Footnote term 4 Chopper part 5 From Ato Z &"Namouna" 
composer 7 --impasse &Doled 
-
9 Lean toward 
49 Roast or something to roast 
52 Chew the scenery 54 Puerto or Costa follower 55"-o'clock scholar" 56 --contendere 
57 Exchange premium 58 Some monks 59 Italian innkeeper 60 City on Seward Peninsula 51 Incandescence &2 Orient 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

~--~---------------­
__..... 
Sports 
Thursday, October 11, 1990 
page 20 
Air Force Falcons flying in to battle Irish baseball 

-
I 
I 
~ 
I 
I f 
~ 
I ~ 
r 
I I 
t 
I 
I 
~ 
l 
t 
I 
! 
r 
.,.. 
-
~ 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
Once again the Notre Dame baseball team proved that it is a team to be reckoned with na­tionally as it beat perennial powerhouse Wichita State last week. 
So one might think that with the Air Force Falcons coming to town this weekend for games Thursday at 7:30 and Friday at 8:30, the Irish could breath a sigh of relief. 
Guess again. 
The Irish faced the Falcons twice in last spring's Irish Baseball Classic in the Seattle Kingdome. Air Force pushed the Irish to the limit as the Notre won two one-run games, 4-3 and 6-5. In 6-5 win, Frank Jacobs blasted an 11th inning homer. 
"I have a lot of respect for Paul Mainieri and his club," 
Pittsburgh
Notre Dame players, coaches reiterate committment to be best 
wins 3-2 
PITTSBURGH {AP)-Doug Tuesday's press conference, one 
To listen to Lou Holtz at 
Drabek provided the Pittsburgh would have gotten the 
Pirates with some arms control impression that he knew Notre 

of their own Wednesday night Dame was on the brink of 
to send the National League greatness-or complete 
playoffs back to Cincinnati. collapse-before last Saturday's 
Drabek allowed two runs and Stanford game. 
seven hits in 8 1-3 innings as "If we could have gotten 
the Pirates beat the Reds 3-2 in through one more week," said 
Game 5. Bob Patterson came Holtz, "I think it would have 
on with one out and runners on been tremendous. I mentioned 
second and third to end the to some people last week that if FRANK PASTOR 
game. we could get by last week, we Football Notebook 
"We've done it this way all were just fixing to have some 
year," Drabek said. "Now we things mushroom and come a 
have to do it two more times." lot more rapidly, but now I 
If history is any indication, don't know. We'll just have to see. 
the Pirates may have the Reds "It makes it difficult to prepare {for Air Force), but at the 
right where they want them. In same time you've got to put it behind you. That's life." 
the 1925 and 1979 World Stanford's 36-31 come-from-behind victory shocked the Irish 
Series, Pittsburgh trailed 3-1 faithful and sent Notre Dame plummeting to No. 8 in Monday's 
and came back to win both. Associated Press College Football Poll. Its effect on Notre 
Drabek was in his 22-victory Dame's national title chances remains to be determined. 
form. After Larkin's leadoff Still, it is hard to believe that one loss can put an end to 
double, he retired 13 straight Notre Dame's national championship hopes any more than one 
until Sabo singled in the fifth. win can clinch it at this point in the season. 
Drabek, who walked one and It is simply too early to tell. 
struck out five, was Michigan, who lost a heartbreaker to the Irish in the season 
particularly tough on Eric opener, woke up Monday morning to find itself number one-a 
Davis. The left fielder fanned position it did not hold even before the Notre Dame game. 
three times and is 3-for-19 in "My feeling is that (the voters) always overevaluate Notre 
the series with nine strikeouts. Dame in the preseason-everybody," said Holtz, "and then at the end of the season they always underevaluate us. That is 
Oakland 3, Boston 1 my opinion, and I feel that way strongly." The only evaluations Holtz values are those his players make 
OAKLAND {AP) -First the with respect to the Irish coaching staff. 
umpires got rid of Roger "We have an obligation as coaches that we owe it to every 
Clemens, then the rest was single football player that really cares about this football team 
easy .for Dave Stewart and the to give them the very best coaehing and the very best chance 
Oakland Athletics. They swept to win. If there's anything that loss has done to me other than 
the Boston Red Sox for the get me down, it made us all the more determined that we owe 
American League pennant and it to our football players to give them every chance to win as 
their third straight trip to the many games as they can. 
World Series. Stewart followed up his first­
see Notebook I page 16 
game heroics with an even 
Cunningham co·ncerned about confiscated tickets 
As he thumbed through a "This is the most anybody stack of 85 student tickets can remember," Cunningham confiscated last weekend at said. the Stanford game,. Notre The writing on the front of a Dame Ticket Manager Bubba student ticket says "May be Cunningham admitted he is in used only by a Notr~ Dame or a difficult situaHon. Saint Mary's student with a 
It seems like yesterday that current ID card." Ushers he was a Notre Dame student, rightfully turn away people and he probably tried many of with student tickets who the same tricks still used cannot produce an 10. today. He can sympathize to There is one big loophole in an extent, but there comes a this procedure. It is fairly time when enough is enough. easy to get an 10 for a student 
In the first three home from another college. Ushers games -Michigan, Purdue and do not have the time to check Stanford ushers have several pieces of identification confiscated over 300 student in order for people to enter tickets. Most were taken when the stadium. the ticket holder could not But there is one aspect in produce an 10. this situation that is 
GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
disturbing, especially to Cunningham. The basic principle involved is dishonesty. 
An isolated case involved a student who approached there would be ?o problems at Cunningham last week and th~ gate even Wit~out an 10. said she lost her tickets. Students sell tickets to the Cunningham issued a game and th~n !ell the_ people duplicate set with the seat they can get m, Cunmngham assignment in black ink. That said.. "T~at's not true. It's same ticket turned up Monday unethical. morning when he sorted In the example above, who through the confiscated gets the blame? Do ~ou bla~e ducats. t~e sellers for sellmg thmr 
tickets? Or do you blame the 
The other case occurs more student who actually thou~?ht frequently. The example here she could get h~r family is of a student who bought t~roug~ the gate With student student tickets for her family, tickets. which was visiting last The old p~rase "Let th_e weekend. The ushers rightfully buyer beware' should prevail turned them away at the gate. h_ere. The stud~nt knew those Other people who had tickets tickets reqmred an ID. confiscated said they received assurance from the seller that see Tickets I page 16 said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "They have a great de­fensive club and they run the bases well. They're used to playing teams of our calibre. They're a hungry team." 

Junior Steve Carson is the Academy's top returning player. As a first baseman he hit .346 and as pitcher was 7-3 with a 
5.12 ERA. Junior outfielder Mike Remualdo returns a .345 average. Senior Mike Wollet {4­0, 4.72) is the other top pitcher for the Falcons. 
Jacobs will most likely figure a great deal into the fortunes of the Irish this weekend. In last weekend's three game set with the Shockers, he went 3 for 7 with three REI's, a homer and a triple. 
"I was more impressed with Jacobs the second night," said Murphy. "They didn't give him anything to hit. He kept in his game, though, kept his focus and didn't go after any bad pitches. Any good power hitter is going to take his walks." 
Although Jacobs is renowned for his offense, his defensive play will be important to the Irish fortunes not only this 
-weekend, but the entire season. "For us to be successful we have to have Jacobs in left field," said Murphy. "He's come a long way since last year," commented outfield coach John Flanagan. "We kind of threw him out there at the end of last year because we needed another stick in the lineup. He's worked hard. He knows that if he wants to play pro ball it will give him more versatility." One might think that someone as big as Jacobs (6'5", 
240) wouldn't be able to move very well, but that's not the case. 
"He's got his speed back," 
said Flanagan, referring to the ankle injury that hampered Jacobs most of last year. "He's got great speed. He just needs repetitions in seeing the ball off the bat." 
Jacobs may see a lot of time at DH because of sophomore Edwin Hartwell. Hartwell started the second game of last Thursday's doubleheader and went 2 for 4 with 2 REI's. 
"Edwin Hartwell has proven he's ready to play at this level," said Murphy. 
Juniors Craig Counsell and Cory Mee, although not big­name players, continue to be vi­tal cogs in the Irish machine. 
"Counsell could play for any­one, anywhere," said Murphy. "He knows the game in and out. His baseball knowledge is ex­ceptional. That's why he started as a freshman." 
Mee, on the other hand will continue to play second base, where he's started since the middle of freshman year, as well as do some catching for the Irish. 
"Cory's responded very well to being behind the plate," said Murphy. "Whether he's playing or not, he's a starter. He's steady, steady steady." 
Dave Sinnes will get the start Thursday while freshman Tom Price will take the hill for Friday's game. In his first big game as a college pitcher, Price lasted 3 1/3 innings giving up four hits and two earned runs. He struck out three and walked one. 
"Price is going to be an out­standing college pitcher," commented Murphy. "He needs to learn not to overthrow his fastball. He's better off throw­ing it 90%, and doing some­thing with it." 
better effort. He beat Boston 3­1 Wednesday and won for the eighth straight time in head-to­head matchups with Clemens. 
In the ultimate sign of Boston's failure and frustration, Clemens was ejected in the second inning for arguing balls and strikes with umpire Terry Cooney, triggering a wild scene that left water coolers, players and coaches strewn across the field. 
Especially against the take­advantage A's, and it showed when Mike Gallego met Tom Bolton with a two-run double that sent Oakland to its 1Oth straight victory in the postseason. 

