

VOL. XXIII NO. 99 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/L.A. Scott 
Matthew Thiel, Iceberg Debate chariman, moderates Tuesday's debate of Pangborn versus Grace. From left, Panborn's Andrew Scharfenburg and Brad Newcomer, Grace's John Albers and Chris Dellicarpini. Pangborn won this round on the topic of Notre Dame's football contract with NBC, was won by Pangborn. 
Soviet Union accepts powerful presidency 
MOSCOW (AP) -A deter­mined and at times angry Mikhail Gorbachev on Tuesday rammed through the Soviet leg­islature his proposal for a more powerful presidency that progressive lawmakers warned could become a dictatorship. 
Gorbachev, his voice rising as his temper frayed, accused his critics of engaging in "cheap demagoguery." The Soviet leadnr recognized lawmakers and revoked their right to spnak apparently at whim dur­ing the often-stormy debate. 
He hailed the Supreme So­viet's final and overwhelming approval of his proposal as a "a great political event." But lawmaker Leonid Sukhov, a Ukrainian taxi driver, warned: "The way the voting went today is the same way presidential power will be." 
After only two days of dis­cussion, spread over two weeks, the Supreme Soviet voted 34 7-24 with 43 absten­tions to. approve creation in principle of a national presi­dency with a five-year term, to replace the government post now held by Gorbachev. whose formal title is Supreme Soviet chairman. 
Shuttle set to go again 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP} -Despite strong winds, NASA began fueling Atlantis on Tues­day for a sixth attempt to launch the shuttle on a secret mission to put a spy satellite in orbit. 
A sixth delay would tie the record for launch postpone­ments experienced by two ear­lier shuttle missions. 
As the launch managers met, Air Force weather forecasters reduced the odds for favorable weather at the planned 12:45 
a.m. launch time Wednesday from 60 percent to 40 percent. 
The big problem was winds that in mid-afternoon were gusting to 18 mph. The winds were expected to persist early Wednesday but should subside to below 10 mph by the end of the launch opportunity, which ends about 2:25 a.m. 
The bill was remanded to committees to consider the dozens of amendments offered by deputies during debate. 
Subject to final approval by the legislature's parent body, the Congress of People's Deputies, the president will be granted powers to veto laws, unilaterally declare states of emergency, and name the prime minister, according to a copy of the bill shown to Western re­porters. 
Gorbachev, who chaired the legislature's proceedings, em­phasized he has not yet been elected president and said he has even considered refusing the office, but few expect the 58-year-old Communist Party chief not to be chosen. 
The presidency would give Gorbachev a new and stable power base at a time when his 20 million-member party's popularity and prestige are waning and it pursues the de­clared aim of following East Europe's Communist parties in renouncing its legally guaran­teed right to govern and com­pete in a multiparty system. 
see SOVIET/ page 6 
Based on the possibility of diminishing winds, the decision was made to proceed, and workers at the launch pad be­gan pumping 528,000 gallons of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen into the shuttle's fuel tank. 
A crosswind of 18 mph would be dangerous if Atlantis devel­oped a problem early in flight and the crew had to attempt an emergency landing at a runway near the launch pad. Mission rules dictate crosswinds must not exceed 14 mph. 
Weather forecasters also said there were some clouds in the launch area but they should not cause trouble. 
Asked about the earlier 60 percent favorable forecast, At­lantis' commander John Creighton said, "Looks good to me.... We're ready to go." 

l 
l 
AP Photo
Congratulations to Chamorro 
Pres~dent B~sh hailed Violeta Chamorro's upset over Nicaraguan president Daniel Ortega in Sunday's election, calling for a "peaceful transition" to democratic rule in that country. 
Aid promised to Nicaragua 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration, savor­ing the defeat of leftist Pres­ident Daniel Ortega, promised Tuesday to lift sanctions soon against 
• Resistance I page 4 
Nicaragua and assemble "significant and meaningful" aid to rebuild its shattered economy. 
President Bush met at the White House with congres­sional leaders including Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., who said post-Ortega assistance probably would cost hun­dreds of millions of dollars over five years. 
Nunn suggested creating an "emerging democracy ac­count" of foreign aid for countries such as Nicaragua, Panama and the fledgling democracies in Eastern Eu­rope. 

The White House said it liked the idea if it meant the administration would have more flexibility in the way the United States dispenses foreign aid. 
To the surprise of the ad­ministration, Ortega was de­feated in Sunday's presiden­tial election by opposition newspaper publisher Violeta Chamorro, who was backed by the United States. 
The vote sets the stage for the first democratic transfer of power ever in Nicaragua, with Chamorro taking office April 25 from Ortega's revo­lutionary government. 
Bush summoned congres­sional leaders to the White House to chart a new strat-
NBC contract proves to be questionable in Icebergs 
ByJOEMOODY 
News Writer 
In two heated debates last night over the controversial NBC football contract, both teams proved the University's decision to was definitely a questionable one. 
The Iceberg semifinals ended with the teams of Breen­Phillips and Pangborn as victors, headed for the championship to be held next week. 
The resolution for the finals was: "That the University of Notre Dame should not have signed a football television con­tract with the National Broad­casting Company." 
"It was a very controversial egy for dealing with a coun­try viewed for a decade as a 
U.S. adversary. 

"The president indicated that there would be a dra­matic and swift change in policy," said Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., the assis­tant Democratic leader, after meeting with Bush. "What we can do in terms of aid depends upon what Congress can find, along with the administration, in a very tight budget situation." 
Without providing a figure, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater promised that U.S. assistance would be substantial. 
"The United States' com­mitment is strong and enduring," Fitzwater said. 
see BUSH I page 6 

topic, and both sides had very strong arguments as evident by the split decisions," said Ice­berg Debate Chairman, Matthew Thiel. 
Before the debate took place, The Iceberg Standing Commit­tee contacted the Executive Vice President of the University, Father Beauchamp, and asked him to submit an article to The Observer supporting the NBC contract. Beauchamp, however, declined that offer calling the question of the contract a non-issue, and that there was no need for a debate; said Thiel. 
The interesting thing is that the teams in oooosition to the 
see BERGS I page 
3 


Wednesday, February 28, 1990
page 2 The Observer INSIDE COLUMN 


Wintertime is slow season 


~----------------~------------------------­
WEATHER 
Lines show high temperatures. 
30 20 
Yesterday's high: 28 Yesterday's low: 26 Nation's high: 85 at (Borrego Springs, Calif. and Buckeye, Coolidge, Gila Bend and Yuma, Ariz.) Nation's low: -29 (Milo, 
Maine) 
Forecast:  
Variably cloudy and very  
cool today with a chance  
80  of flurries. Highs from the  
lower to middle 30s. Clear  
FRONTS: • •• •COLD WARM  •• •STATIONARY  and cold tonight. Lows around 15. Sunny and cool Thursday. Highs in the upper 30s. ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
Pressure  
® ©  ~~~  ~  m  ~i'  0 X  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

OF INTEREST 
International Club presents "Images of an Ugly Security Awareness Days Part II continues America" tonight at 6:30p.m. in 304 Haggar Parlor, SMC. tonight at 9 p.m. in Angela Athletic facility at SMC. Jerry Heads of many corporations will be speaking of the im-Wroblewski and members of the Midwest Karate ages of America and Business in other countries. Academy will demonstrate self-defense tactics with active 
participation for all. Notre Dame women are especially
Feeling Guilty: Rupture to Reconc:iliation, a invited. Sponsored by St. Mary's Student Government and workshop on resolving guilt feelings, will be presented Security Dept. tonight 6:30-8 p.m. in the Foster Room at LaFortune by Beth Wilson and Tim Fischer of the University Counseling A Eucharistic missionaries representative, Carol Center. McCollins, will be recruiting for a New Orleans based 
post-graduation opportunity today at the Center for So­
NDE past participants will have an Ash Wednesday cial Concerns. mass tonight at 7:15p.m. in St. Ed's chapel (second floor) instead of a regular Fourth Day gathering. Teaching English in Japan (Good Shepherd 
Movement) will have a representative at the C.S.C. on 
Sophomore Literary Festival W.P. Kinsella, au­Thursday 12 noon until 11 p.m. thor of "Shoeless Joe," will be giving a reading of his work tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Audi­Correction: cheerleading tryouts are not being torium. Kinsella will meet informally with students and held in the Basketball Arena as was posted, but are faculty in Grace Hall's Coffeehouse at 10:30 p.m. 'lcheduled to take place in the ACC Pit. 
NATIONAL 
Mayor Marion Barry returned to the nation's capi­Joseph Hazelwood used bad judgment in virtu­tal Tuesday from a substance abuse treatment program ally every decision he made the night the Exxon Valdez at a South Carolina hospital to answer cocaine possession ran aground, a veteran sea captain testified Tuesday at and perjury charges filed against him, city officials said. Hazelwood's trial. Robert Beevers, a consultant who Barry could face a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison spent 14 years as a tanker captain, said the worst move and a $1.25 million fine if convicted of all eharges filed Hazelwood made on March 24 was leaving the ship's against him. The mayor's original arraignment date was bridge in the hands of a third mate during a hazardous postponed from Feb. 21 until Wednesday after his attor­passage into Prince William Sound. Soon after Hazelwood ney argued that the first appearance date would interfere left the bridge, the Exxon Valdez impaled itself on Bligh with his treatment. Reef, causing the nation's worst oil spill. 
WORLD 
Nearly a quarter-million Soviet Jews are ex­Soviet heavy metal band Gorky Park has been pected to immigrate to Israel in 1990, three times the signed for Farm Aid IV at the Hoosier Dome on April 7, previous estimate, a senior government official was and has singer John Cougar Mellencamp to thank for quoted as saying Tuesday on Israel television. The sudden what will be its biggest American gig yet. Lead guitarist leap in the estimate, the source said, derives from the Alexei Belov said of loosening borders in Eastern block opening of new migration channels that would allow countries " ... I always dreamed of a day when there would 230,000 Jews to come to Israel. So far this year, 9,441 be no borders between countries. Maybe it will come in Soviet Jews have arrived and earlier Israeli estimates put 100 years. And I will know that a little piece of this work the number of expected immigrants in 1990 at 80,000. was done by our band by bringing people closer." 
INDIANA ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On February 28:

A cafeteria boycott at Owen Valley High School in Spencer ended after a week, but stu­e In 1902: In Colorado, 1000 Volume in sharesdents promised to protest again if food prices are 
miners were buried in an 152.59 Million 

not lowered. Usually, 500 students go through 
avalanche.

the daily lunch line. During the boycott, the count wavered between 50 and 100. Students protested e In 1909: Roosevelt becomes lunchroom policies in which they had to pay for the first president to visit the ketchup and high a Ia carte prices, including Austrian embassy. 
'I} 0.90

$1.35 cheeseburgers and $1.65 tenderloins. e In 1921: Sailors start the 
S&P Composite A
Kronstadt anti-Bolshevik move­

330.26 1I 1 .59 
The 20 and 18-year old parents of two ment. 
Dow Jones Industrials 

injured infants -one suffering from seve1·al e In 1953: Shah Reza Pahlevi 2,617.12 'I} 14.64fractures and human bites -were charged with 
drives Mossadegh out of home 

felony battery and child neglect Tuesday in Indi­Precious Metals
while mobs riot in Tehran. 

anapolis said. The charges came after the 1 0­
e In 1984: Canadian Prime Gold {} $1.10 to $408.00/ oz.

week-old Cassandra Carpenter received hospital Minister Pierre Trudeau an­
treatment for two fractured legs, a broken arm, Silver{} 7.3¢ to $5.075/ oz. 
nounces his resignation in Ot­12 broken ribs and several bites, said authorities. 

tawa. Source: AP 
NYSE Index 
182.16 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 
The Observer page 3 

Proposal for off-campus co-presidents announced at Hall President's Council 

By PETER LOFTUS 
News Writer 
A proposal to establish two off-campus co-presidents was announced at the Hall Presi­dents Council meeting Tuesday. 
Student Body President Matt Breslin said that the establish­ment of two co-presidents for off-campus will centralize the leadership of off-campus stu­dents. 
In the past, Breslin said, there has been a lack of com­munication between off-campus leaders, which include repre­sentatives in the student Senate and in HPC. 
The co-presidents will work with student senators to pro­mote the weJI-being of off cam­pus students, which number close to 1.500, Breslin said. It is hoped that one co-president will concentrate on campus is­sues and the oth()r will concen­trate on programs and activi­ties for off-campus students. 

The problem of the lack of off-campus student voting was discussed. Student Senate is considering setting up more voting booths, perhaps in be­tween Fitzpatrick Hall and the Snite Museum, or in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The proposal will be voted on next week by both Student Sen­ate and HPC. 
In other business, Art Goll­witzer announced a charity run for muliple sclerosis on April 8 in Loftus Center. 
The Senior class is sponsor­ing a Nintendo tournament next week. The deadline for sign-ups is Thursday, with a two dollar entry fee. The tour­nament is not limited to se­niors. 
Kara Kinnealy, head of the foreign relations committee, announced a proposal for the establishment of a foreign re­lations representative from each dorm. The representatives would be responsible for keep­ing up communications with overseas students. 
A date has not yet been set for the Pangborn Cup, a golf tournament. Each dorm will field a five-man team in this charity event. 
It was announced that there will be a referendum on next weeks class officer election ballots concerning co-residen­tial housing. 
The student Senate and Hall President election ballots will have a referendum on night classes. Those elections are to be held March 27. 
The deadline for sign-ups for Christmas in April is next Tuesday, March 6. Anyone signing up after that date will not be guaranteed work in a house. 
Those students staying on campus over spring break are asked to volunteer their help with entering into the comput­ers names of students who signed up. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey
Words of wisdom 
Ken Kesey spoke about the future of literarture and other topics in a forum Tuesday at the Library lounge as part of the Sophomore Literary Festival, which will continue through Friday. 




Government agencies will be present during Career Day 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI sored by Career and Placement Some of the representatives majors. They government also three million employees. More News Writer Services. include the U.S. Secret Service, needs people with technical, than half a million new workers 
South Bend Mayor Joe Ker­Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, business and science back­are hired each year. 
Over 25 federal, state and lo­nan, an ND graduate, will be and Firearms, the IRS, Finance grounds in addition to bilingual Government jobs are avail­
cal government agencies will be present during the day. Both and Accounting Center, and skills or investigative, quanti­able all over the country with 
represented today from 12 permanent and summer em­others. tative and verbal strengths. only about 12 percent located 
noon to 4 p.m. at the Center for ployment opportunities will be "The point is to stress that A test is not required for all in the Washington D.C. area. 
Continuing Education during discussed by the representa­people of all backgrounds and government jobs and and rep­Applicant qualifications are 
Government Career Day spon-tives. are needed because there is a resentatives from the agency the same as for similar jobs in 















wide variety of government op­will answer questions about the the private sector and advan­portunities for Notre Dame and process of application, accord­tages of government jobs are 
, Saint Mary's students" said co­ing to the Office of Personnel about the same as in any other ordinator Paula Cook, career Management in Indianapolis. large organization such as ben­counselor. The United States Govern­efits, early retirement options, Agencies are not only looking ment is the largest employer in job security, and nationwide for government or liberal arts the country with just under mobility. said Cook. 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
The team of Pangborn, made off Courtney. Pangborn was 
up of Andrew Scharfenberg, affirmative and therefore was
Bergs

Assistant Sports Editor 
John Mulhern, Jennifer Mc­against the NBC contract. 
continued from page 1 

Dougall, and Brad Newcomer In the other match, the team
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
contract won their respective won 2-1 against Grace I's team of Breen-Phillips, made up of debates, proving that it was of John Albers, Chris Delli­Suzanne Fitzgerald, Kate Mc­not a non-issue, Thiel said carpini, Laurie Setzke, and Ge-Fadden, Bryan Robertson, and
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
Greg Butrus defeated, 2-1. Pas­statement by 4 p.m. Friday, March 2 to Greg 
querilla East with members Tracy Birmingham, Kate
Guffey. For further information, call Greg 

Attention Saint Mary's 
English, Peter Meringolo, and
Guffey at 239-5303 or 283-1662. 
Amy Thomas. Opening for the Pangborn

students: 
team, Brad Newcomer pointed
The Observer is seeking enthusiastic students 
out that Notre Dame's Catholic interested in covering events on the Saint Mary's 


values should be "paramount," and should set a precedent for
campus for the newspaper. If you like to write, 
other schools. Teammate An­
A 

have an inquisitive mind, or simply would like to 
drew Scharfenberg added that
LIVING FAITH IN THE FAMILY 
the manner that the contract
help us make the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
(PART II 6F THE SuNDAY SERIES 
was brought about and signed
EX,PLORING ISSUES OFfAITH 
munity more aware of events on your campus, 
was "secretive, unethical, and
contact Corinne Pavlis at 277-3682. 
unfair."



/mmrQTimG\{] 

Arguing for the negative side, Grace I's speakers John Albers and Chris Dellicarpini stressed that Notre Dame is merely us­
be a part of it. 
ing its resources to help its students.
I ;?I~~~:~l~l~?f[~!~~~ 

~{~ CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 1990 
V
1---To "'''f•lly '"'"""'""d'""'-""' 

lakes, mountains, woods; at other times, a church, a synagogue, a mosque. Too often the home 


./.ATTENTION STUDENTS 
is divorced from one's sacred pkzces. This program explores the capacity ofthe home to nurture 
Last chance to sign up for "Christmas in April." 
a deeply spiritual life for the traditional family, for those who share a home 
Off Campus Sign-ups: 
andfor those who live alone. 
LaFortune information desk. On Campus Sign-ups: Look for posters in your dorm or
SUNDAY, MARCH 4TH 
ask your Hall President.
Center for Continuing Education Jl:30-4:30pm 
THIS PROJECT NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT!!! 
-
Please register ForBabysitting will 
Questions??? Please call: 
babysitting by 3/1 activities for 
be provided with by ealling Campus 
Karen Croteau x1367 Lora Mangan x1314
Ministry:239·5242different ages. 0Jv1PUS·

MNI5TRY 
Isabel Navarrete x1314 Bob Scheibel x2544 


DEADLINE MARCH 5!!! 

Jackson says 'no' to mayor's job 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -A military commander said Tuesday that the defeated San­dinistas would not give up con­trol of the armed forces and police unless the U.S.-backed Contra rebels are disbanded. 
President Daniel Ortega and hundreds of top Sandinista party members met to map strategy following his stunning election loss Sunday to news­paper publisher Violeta Barrios de Chamorro. 
Hank-and-file Sandinistas held demonstrations and some denounced the elections results while grudgingly saying they would accept the party's loss. Others urged Ortega not to give up power. 
Rafael Solis, a military com­mander, and other Sandinista sources said Ortega had pre­sented recommendations for a transition plan and a strategy for the Sandinistas as they re­linquish power after 10 years and become the opposition. 
Solis said a key demand would be the immediate demo­bilization of U.S.-backed Contra guerrillas before the San­dinistas would give up control of the army -Central Amer­ica's largest-and the police. 
"They have to come back without arms. This is a neces­sity in Nicaragua. We need this in order to continue discussions about our army," he said. 
Solis called on Chamorro's victorious United National Op­position coalition to press for disbanding the Contras, who have been fighting to overthrow the leftist Sandinistas since 1981. 
Chamorro, publisher of La Prensa newspaper, is scheduled w take office for a six-year term April 25. 
One of Chamorro's closest advisers, former Contra leader Alfredo Cesar. said Monday that the question of the armed forces was the most crucial point of the transition. 
Solis also said during a break in the Sandinista meeting that "if UNO decides to privatize the banking system it could be an irresponsible act that starts a war." 
"We Will Defend the Con­quests of the Revolution," read a front-page headline in Barri­cada, the Sandinista party newspaper. 
Meanwhile, Ortega's defeat began to sink in among his stunned supporters. 
After a post-election day of calm, thousands of rank-and­file Sandinistas streamed to­ward a downtown plaza. Others demonstrated outside the building where the leftist 
• fj 'i1!!30\.'90fj[], @®IMJI]®V'., 
G'®!!3 ~1]!!30®Q!J~ [pl]@[p(],l] 
•Y OSCAR WILDI! 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990
The Observer 

Lecture give~n on relationship between family and structure of political regimes 
By JOE MOODY News Writer 
Professor Frederick Wilhelm­sen discussed the role of the family in political society at his lecture last night. 
The dynamics within the fam­ily foreshadow the dynamics between political leadership and the members of a political society, explained Wilhelmsen. He paraphrased the Greek philosopher Aristotle that man is more a domestic animal than a political animal. 
Wilhelmsen said the family is an organic reality prior to any for of political organization, inasmuch as it is the source of legitimacy for all politicalle8al­ity. He noted that even totali­
AP Photo 

tarian regimes such as Hed China, Stalin, and Lenin have 
Jesse Jackson announced Monday that he will not run for mayor 
recognized this, and made con­
of Washington D.C. Present Mayor Marion Barry is to be ar­
cessions to ensure the stability 
raigned on cocaine possession and perjury charges today. 
of the family. Because the family is the ba-

Sandinistas won't give up power 
party's nine-man directorate met with Cabinet ministers, top party leaders from around the country and military comman­ders. 
Voice of Nicaragua, the state radio, broadcast hours of an­guished calls from Sandinista militants, many of whom ac­cused UNO of cheating its way to victory and urged Ortega not to concede defeat. 
Others said they would accept the decisions of the party. 
Ortega publicly recognized Chamorro's triumph Monday morning in a dramatic speech in which he said the election was the result of Sandinista democratic efforts. He later met with Chamorro and em­braced the widow of an assas­sinated hero of the revolution that toppled rightist dictator Anastasio Somoza in 1979. 
sic unit of political society, un­less governments allow the family as such to be repre­sented, the government will fail to exercise to fulfill its repre­sentative function, said Wil­helmsen. 
Wilhelmsen pointed out the inconsistency of many contem­porary liberal democracies in this respect: "Democracy seems to want happy and good family lives in its rulers, but is unwill­ing to represent the family po­litically." 
If our democracy is to be truly representative, we must strike against the democratic individualism which "when faithful to its own essence must marginate the family and its claims," and reduce mankind, "to an aggregate of individuals, an amorphous mass with nei­ther family traditions nor cor­porate memories," he said. 
The lecture, entitled "The Family as the Basis for Political Existence," was held last night in the Galvin auditorium. It was sponsored by the Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, the Student Gov­ernment Intellectual Life Com­mission, Notre Dame Year of the Family, and the Jacques Maritain Center. 
Professor Wilhelmsen is a Professor of Philosophy and Politics at the University of Dallas. He received his masters in Philosophy from Notre Dame in 1948. 
~need someonewith the ronfidenceofa~' 
the dedicationor­
amarathonerandthe 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
Vk need 1 Peace Corps volunlcer Call usatl-800-424-8580, Ext. 91. 


WANTED: 
One ambitious Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student seeking challenging extra-curricular involvement to fill the following position: 
Observer Typesetting Service Director 
Applicants for this position should: 
• 
Possess strong management skills and the ability to work with all types of people. 

• 
Be eager to develop valuable Apple Macintosh skills. 

• 
Be energetic and enterprising. 

• 
Have the initiative to expand upon the successes of a profitable business venture. 


Contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
. Ihe ObserYer. __ 

~----~---------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, February 28, 1990 

Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Arens pays tribute Monaay at Umschlagplatz, the depot where Jews from the Warsaw ghetto were loaded on trains headed for Nazi concentration camps during World War II. 
LEARN RUSSIAN ON THE BLACK SEA! 
The programs are organized by Dafna Ronn-Oxley of Virtus. Limited in cooperation with Sigma, a privately owned Russian cooperative in Sochl, Russia. There will be 2 sessions: June 8-July 11 and July 6­August 8. each session includes 80 hours of class work taught by qualified teachers at the university level plus 20 hours of class discussion, and also excursions in the area. COST: 1st sesslon-$2500. Price includes the course itself, accomodations with local Russian families, 3 meals per day, excursions and ALL air and land transportation. 2nd sesslon-$2680. Price includes all of the above plus 4 days In Moscow. FOR INFORMATION CALL 1-800-274-9121 (24 hours a day) and leave your name and address. 
You are invited to an OPEN HOUSE MEETING ON Friday, March 2 between 11 :OOam • 3:00pm 
room 
La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame University South Bend, Indiana 
The Observer page 5 

Poland~ Israel to resume relations 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Is­rael and Poland resumed full diplomatic relations after a 23­year break Tuesday, the third Warsaw Pact country to renew relations with the Jewish state in the past six months. 
Poland ended relations in 1967 to support the Arab side in the Middle East War. Hun­gary restored relations in September and Czechoslovakia followed suit Feb. 9. 

Prime Minister Tadeusz Ma­zowiecki looked on as Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Arens and Polish Foreign Minister Krzysztof Skubiszewski signed the protocol at a government palace, and the delegations sipped champagne to celebrate the long-awaited event. 
Poland has had low-level ties with Israel since 1987 and the new Solidarity-led government is hoping that the restoration of a formal embassy will lead to closer economic and cultural cooperation. 
"We are today opening a new chapter in the long history, full of tragedies, of the Jewish peo­ple of Poland," Arens told Is­rael Army Radio. "I hope for good and close relations be­tween Israel and Poland." 
Speaking to reporters after the ceremony, Arens stressed that Israel also hopes for Polish support for Israeli positions in the Middle East peace process. 
He later told Israel Army Ra­dio he found "great under­standing" for Israel's problems among Poland's leaders. "It seems even a greater and fuller u.nderstanding than we have found in Western Europe," he added. 

Poland has said resuming re­lations with Israel should not disturb its relations with Arab countries. Poland continues to endorse Palestinian rights to self-determination, and Sku­biszewski held a January meet­ing with Arab diplomats to as­sure continued support. 
Nevertheless, state radio in Libya said it had "deep regret" over the resumption of rela­tions. The Polish ambassador to Tripoli was summoned to the Libyan Foreign Ministry and told that the action would harm Libyan-Polish relations and Arab-Polish relations generally, the Libyan radio report said. 
Arens, in the radio interview, said he had invited Polish Pres­ident Wojciech Jaruzelski to Is­rael. The invitation was ac­cepted but no date was set, he said. 
Skubiszewski also said he, too, had accepted an invitation to Israel. 
Arens said he expected re­suming diplomatic ties will lead to "very extensive economic re­lations" between Israel and Poland, as well as closer peo­ple-to-people links. 
"There is no doubt in my mind that it will bring about a widening, a deepening and a strengthening of the relation­ship between the Polish people and the Jewish people in Poland and Israel," Arens said. 
He referred to the small community of about 10,000 Jews remaining in Poland after the Holocaust and massive postwar emigration of Polish Jews, mainly to Israel and the United States. 

On Monday, Arens went on emotional visits to memorials to Poland's once vibrant Jewish community, which numbered 
3.5 million before World War 
II. 

He paid homage at the mon­ument to the Warsaw Ghetto uprising of 1943, when Jews, held in a walled-in section of the city to face starvation or deportation, rose up against the Nazi occupiers. 
Arens stood in silence at the monument at Umschlagplatz, the depot where 300,000 War­saw Jews were loaded on trains to the Nazi concentration camps. 

On Tuesday, Arens also dis­cussed economic issues with Polish Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz, met with Ma­zowiecki and had a session scheduled with Jaruzelski, who was Communist Party leader when the then-Communist gov­ernment initiated contacts with Israel. 



Dear NursingBoards booster, 
(Excerpts from actual letters* 
Stanley H. Kaplan has received from 
satlisfied NCLEX-prep takers.) 
"Not passing the NCLEX the ftrSt time was the worst thing to happen to me ... taking Kaplan was the best thing fve ever done ... " 
-Student from Belkeley; California 
I feel that your nursing program is solely responsible for my 550 point increase ... " --Student from Birmingham, Alabama 
"I hadn't studied for my first NCLEX and did not pass. Kaplan really motivated me to study hard to achieve a passing score the second time around ... " 
~.Student from New Yolk City; New Yolk 
No one but Kaplan gives you small classes led by ex­perienced nurses, and a tape review series. So ifyou want the best and most experienced in test prep, do what these RNs did. Call Kaplan! 
·~ YOlJO liKE TO READ MOI!E lETTERS liKE THfSE. 
&KAPLAN
COME VISIT us. 
A 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 



How to...rent a tux The Observer/L.A. Scott Don Buczynski of Louie's Tux Shop talks with student assistants. His shop is involved in Senior formal bid sales, which are taking place in LaFortune Hall and Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
"We will develop an aid pack­age for Nicaragua that will be significant and meaningful. The democratic aspirations of the Nicaraguan people deserve our support and they will have it." 
Fitzwater said the United 
States was examining "the full 
range of economic options 
aimed at reintegrating 
Nicaragua into the interna­
ti(mal economy." 
He said Bush would discuss Nicaragua's needs this weekend at a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, whose country has become the world's largest donor of for­eign aid. 
Nunn also said U.S. aid for emerging democracies should be sizable. 
"After all, we spent trillions 

Soviet 
continued from page 1 
Progressive lawmakers strongly objected to concentrating so much power in one leader's hands and what they called Gorbachev's undue haste in pressing the issue on the Supreme Soviet. But other legislators said mounting economic, social and ethnic woes prove the need for a strong leader. 
"We are tired of social ten­sion. When are you going to put the country in order?" law­maker Rano Ubaidullaeva of Uzbekistan said her con­stituents were demanding. "We need a person who can have real power ... the quicker the better." 
But Anatoly Sobchak rejected the demand for "a strong hand" voiced by some. "We are deciding the question of ap­pointing a nationwide gen­darmr .. the Leningrad jurist said. He told the 542-member legislature: "All our decisions can be crossed out by the pres­ident." 
Sobchak and another member of the progressive Inter-Re­gional Group of parliamentari­ans, Sergei Stankevich of Moscow, said the new presi­dency would tilt the balance of power toward the head of state to the detriment of the new working legislature, which has functioned for less than a year. 
"We know all too well from the history of our country how dangerous is the concentration and super-concentration of power and authority in one place," said Stankevich, who has studied the U.S. Constitu­tion. 
Visibly stung by some law­makers' insinuations that the new office was being tailor­made for him, Gorbachev ex­claimed from the dais: "This is and trillions of dollars, hun­
dreds of billions of dollars, de­
fending the free world waiting 
for this day, and now that 
we've arrived at this day, I 
think we should not be short­
sighted in our approach," Nunn 
said. 

In a message that seemed 
primarily aimed at the Contra 
rebels long supported by the 
Reagan and Bush administra­
tions, Fitzwater urged restraint 
in the post-election period. He 
reiterated a U.S. call that there 
be an immediate cease-fire 
"under U.N. supervision and 
that it be strictly respected by 
all sides." 

"We have always anticipated that the resistance would de­mobilize and repatriate under conditions of oolitical freedom and personal security," Fitzwa­ter said. 
In contrast to the skepticism the White House has applied to 
not serious. This is cheap dem­
agoguery!" 

"We're talking about the president's power, about con­stitutional changes," he said. "What does Gorbachev have to do with this?" 
He repeated previous assur­ances that there would be more than one candidate for the of­fice, and added: "Sometimes I have an outrageous thought, in order to prove that this (the political system) is not being adjusted for somebody ... to de­cline if my name is on the list of candidates." 
But he said such an act would be "cowardice." The new presi­dency, he said, was vital for the success of his economic and so­cial reform drive, known as "perestroika." 
According to the draft bill on the presidency shown to re­statements by Ortega, the ad­ministration appeared eager to accept his promise of a smooth transition of power. 
"We have the words of Presi­dent Ortega about wanting a peaceful and effective transi­tion, and we fully expect that to occur," Fitzwater said. 

At the State Department, spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said that prior sug­gestions of Sandinista unwill­ingness to turn over power were made in the heat of the campaign and that, so far as the administration knows, no such statements have been made since the elections. 
Fitzwater said the adminis­tration would respond to the changes in Nicaragua's gov­ernment with a series of steps designed to normalize relations. 
porters, the holder of the office must be a Soviet citizen at le.ast 35 years old. The president will be directly elected by the voters, the bill stipulates. but thajurist who presented it to the Supreme Soviet said the proee­dure will be different the first time. 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 
Havel suggests Soviet Union should invite Dubcek to visit 
MOSCOW (AP) -Czechoslo­vakia's president suggested Tuesday a visit to Moscow by Alexander Dubcek, the Com­munist Party chief whose lib­eral "Prague Spring" was crushed by the Red Army a gen­eration before Gorbachev's re­forms. 
In a meeting with Soviet law­makers, President Vaclav Havel said it could be part of an ex­change of parliamentary dele­gations, with the Czechoslovak group led by Dubcek, who now is president of Parliament. 
As Communist Party chief in 1968, Dubcek introduced re­forms offensive to the Kremlin, which opposed liberalization until Mikhail Gorbachev be­came its leader in 1985. Soviet tanks rolled into Prague in Au­gust. 
Earlier Tuesday, Havel paid homage to human rights ac­tivist Andrei Sakharov, whom the official news agency Tass described as one of the few So­viets to openly welcome the "Prague Spring" and denounce the invasion. 
Dubcek's last two official visits to Moscow were humiliat­ing. The first time, he was a prisoner days after the invasion and on the second, two months later, he signed an agreement allowing Soviet troops to stay in his country indefinitely and providing for a return to hard­line rule. 
lie was dismissed as party chief in 1969 and languished in obseurity until Czechoslovakia's peaceful revolution broke the Communist grip on power last fall. 

Havel met with President Gorbachev on Monday and said they had agreed all 73,500 Hcd Army soldiers would leave Czechoslovakia by July 1, 1991, and might be gone sooner. 
Tass said the first train car­rying troops and armor out of Czechoslovakia crossed into the Soviet Union on Tuesday after­noon. 
Sakharov, a fearless cam­paigner for human rights and reform, did not live to see Havel, a playwright scorned and jailed by the Communists, become president of Czechoslo­vakia. 
Havel went to the grave with Sakharov's widow, Yelena Bon­ner, and added flowers to mounds of others left by ordi­nary Soviet citizens who visit the grave. 

FreshmenI St. Hedwig's <iong Showl 
Help support our class service project by volunteering for the following positions: -Assistant Director 
. -Stope Mananger . -Technical Assistant (Ughts & Sound) -Publicity Manager -Crew members for these positions No experience necessaryl This is a grClCit opportunity to help ootl Call Jenny X4890 or Lynn X4526
I--------____....._.._.. ---------b-.......,.._..._..._..._..._..._ 
9:30 PM Thursday at... 

NIGHTCLUB 


IN JIL\. SeR1oUsNfsS 
The Comedy-lmprov Troupe 

Wednesday, February 28, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Japan's Kaifu names new cabinet members Gary casino 

TOKYO (AP) -Prime Minis­ter Toshiki Kaifu, newly re­elected by Parliament, formed a Cabinet Wednesday after fight­ing off attempts to include scandal-tainted politicians in his administration. 
Kaifu displayed uncharacter­istic assertiveness by weather­ing intense intraparty haggling over appointments that delayed announcement of the Cabinet for several hours. 
He also dropped both women named to his first Cabinet, formed shortly after July's elec­tion in which female voters played a major role in ousting the ruling Liberal Democratic Party from control of the upper house. 
But he kept his foreign and finance ministers in what polit­ical analysts said was a move to preserve continuity in rela­tions with the United States at a time of renewed trade fric­tion, and maintain a steady policy in dealing with a widely unpopular new tax. 
The Cabinet was to present itself to Emperor Akihito later Wednesday before holding its first meeting. 
The reshuffling came two days before Kaifu was to leave for a hastily arranged summit with President Bush. The two­day meeting begins Friday and is expected to focus on U.S. calls for Japan to radically al­ter the structure of its economy and ease its $49 billion trade surplus with the United States. 

Foreign Minister Taro Nakayama and newly named International Trade and Indus­try Minister Keibun Muto held a 
Hashimoto, an ambitious 
politician widely regarded as a 
future prime minister. 
The backstage wrangling fol­lowed Kaifu's re-election Tues­day as president of the ruling party, and thus prime minister. 
Parliament's lower house, which officially names the premier, voted to keep Kaifu 286-146 over Socialist Party Chairwoman Takako Doi. 
The upper house, controlled by the opposition since July, voted for Kaifu 111-91 over Doi with 44 blank ballots in a runoff. 
Voter outrage over the tax and the far-reaching Recruit scandal led to the Liberal Democrats' trouncing at the polls in July. In the scandal, stocks in a subsidiary of Re­cruit Co. -a business informa­tion conglomerate -were sold to politicians at artificially low prices. 
The scandal brought down the administration of former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita and led to the resig­nation of his successor, Sousuke Uno, who stepped down to take responsibility for the July election outcome. 
But Kaifu led the Liberal Democrats to an unexpectedly wide majority in the Feb. 18 lower house election, giving him and his party renewed confi­dence in their leadership. 

~ 6TATION0 Of TliE CDOM fQID\Y5 of LENT 7·15 p.m. 
SACRED HEART CRYPT CHURCH 


~~-----N-OT_.RE_.D_Mm_._..___._____.__.._~~ 
INTERESTED IN 
legislation falls short 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Earline Rogers worked franti­cally to bring casino gambling legislation to the Senate floor but her amendment died along with a bill to make changes in Indiana's lottery and pari­mutuellaws. 
Rogers, D-Gary, was pre­pared to insert the casino lan­guage Monday night into House Bill 1338 but never got the chance. That makes it virtually impossible for Gary to obtain permission to build casino ho­tels along Lake Michigan this year. 
The bill's sponsor, Sen. Lawrence Borst, R-Indianapo­lis, ran out of time to call the bill before Monday's midnight deadline for the Senate to amend House measures. He also claimed Rogers' amend­ment would have threatened ·fi­nal passage of his bill. 
Rogers, who tried unsuccess­

~
fully to get Borst to call down the bill, said she had the 25 votes needed to amend the measure. 
"The minute we hit 25, all of a sudden we were told we needed 26," she said. "All I was looking for was enough votes to pass an amendment, and then work between now and tomorrow to get enough votes to get it to pass on third (reading)." 
With the absence of Sen. Richard Young, D-Milltown, se­nators need only 25 votes to amend a bill, but 26 to pick up 
a constitutional majority needed to pass a measure out of the chamber. 
Borst said Rogers should not have proposed the amendment to his bill unless she had the 26th vote. 
"Usually you have regard for someone else's legislation. This is the Senate, not the House," Borst said, referring to Rogers' recent election to the Senate after eight years in the House. 
SummL'T Joh.. 
Over 50.000 summer job opemngs at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Bus1nesses. Cru1se Lrnes. Ranches. and more rn the U.S.. Canada. 


ADVERTISING 
OR 
Australia. and 20 other countnes. Complete drrectory only $19.95. Don't wart till after finals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937


MANAGEMENT? 
Adworks is currently accepting applications for the positions of 
SEDUCTION. ROMANCE. MURDER. THE THINGS ONE DOES FOR lOVE.

PRESIDENT 
AND 


AMPIRE'S

EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
for the 1990-91 academic year. Applications are 

I I S S 
now available in the Adworks office,· room 300 LaFortune, between 2:30 and 5:00PM. The appli­
~"'""-1111NIWI't'I!I,.N1 
'--••-'-'-•
..... ­

cation deadline is Friday, March 2 at 5:00PM. 
Cinema at the Snlte

ADWORKS FRI and SAT 7:30,9:30 







photos. kinko•se 
the copy center 

news conference to address immediately the trade tensions Kaifu will face. 
Japan "must maintain good relations with the United States," Nakayama said. "At_ a time of Japan-U.S. economic friction, we will make strong efforts in the ... talks. We must promote discussions for Japan­
U.S. global partnership in the 
Aside from Nakayama, the only other Cabinet holdover was Finance Minister Ryutaro 
r:--------------­
• Quality Thesis Copies I I
KAPIAN-SMH 
• Course Packets I Bring this coupon into a participating Kinko's Copy Center and receive S2.00 off IBAR REVIEW SERVICES on a set of regularly priced Passport Photos. No appointment nec.essar~. Not v•lid 
• Floppy Disks I with any other offer. One coupon per customer. Good throuch 4130190 
1717 E-South Bend Ave. • Term Paper Copies 1 South Bend, IN 46637 • Collating/Binding I Mon.-Fri.-7:00 a.m.-11 :00 p.m.
PHONE 219/272-4135 I
Sat. -Sun.-9:00 a.m.-6:00p.m.
• Passport Photos 

I I
• Fax Service 

18187 State Road 23 271-0398
I I 
..---------------------••••••••••••-L--------------.I 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990
pageS 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager . Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor .John Blasi Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor ..Eric Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chrisl1ne Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICieS of the adm1nostrat10n of e1ther onst1tution The news is reported as accurately and ob­;ectlvely as poss1ble Uns1gned editonals represent the op1nion ol the maJonly of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef Manag1ng Ed1tor, Executive News Ed1tor V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor Commentanes. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of varyong opm1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
LETTERS

King just one part of black history 
South African 

American clergymen tradition­an important aspect that may prisoner freed 
By Patricia A. Washington 
ally have had a degree of inde­be lost on the television genera­pendence and authority tion, and upon many of us who Dear Editor: unavailable to most other remember the times, but often This letter is from M. Henry 
In recogmzmg February as members of the community. In forget: segregation wasn't sim­Fazzie who has been a prisoner Black History Month, we ac­addition to providing spiritual ply part of the existing mores of conscience in South Africa. knowledge and reflect upon the and moral leadership, African­and established practices of the Amnesty International has been contributions of African­American churchmen were times, it was, in fact, law in working on his case for over American men and women to looked to for economic leader­parts of this country. In chal­three years. the rich heritage of American ship as welL lenging and breaking those life. At the same time, it is also In organizing the economic laws, King refused to bow to Jackie Uhll important that we remember boycott of Montgomery, AI., in what was nothing less than Coordinator not just the words and deeds of the mid-1950s, which led ulti­American apartheid. Amnesty International individuals, but the way in mately to the Supreme CoUirt's Feb. 27,1990 which those singular contribu­1957 transportation dese,~re­During his lifetime, King re­tions tie into the overall fabric gation ruling, King was not ceived the accolades and the of African-American history. and culture begin with the peo­only drawing his inspiration honors befitting a hero. The Dear Ms. Megna: 
One of the most prominent ple and the images preserved from Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., majority of the other monu­I received your letter and I African-Americans of this cen­on videotape. This, of course, is who had first applied the boy­mental figures in African­am apologizing for a late reply. tury is Dr. Martin Luther King, not the case. cott tactic in the 1930s, but he American history were not Thanks very much to you for Jr. His efforts, along with the For example, an organized, was also fulfilling a leadership nearly as fortunate. all your campaigns you've made demonstrations led by the integrated civil rights move­legacy created by his clerical One of the sad legacies of the to pressure the South African Southern Christian Leadership ment is not a 1960s, nor, for predecessors in the African­African-American experience is government to release us and Conference, and the sit-ins or­that matter, a 20th-century, in­American community. that many of the contributors also lift the restrictions on us. ganized by the Student Non­vention. The roots of the to the culture and the The restrictions were lifted to Violent Coordinating Committee movement go back to the Once King began his crusade advancement of their people all of us in December of last (SNCC) and the Freedom Riders African-American abolitionists, for social justice, he soon real­saw their lives end in poverty or year. We can go wherever we of the Congress of Racial predating the Civil War. ized that civil rights were only a obscurity. It is fitting that King want now without any permis­Equality (CORE), awakened this Abolitionists realized that slav­small part of the larger whole_ have a national holiday sion from the government. country to an unjust social and ery was anathema to the demo­Without jobs. without educa­celebrated in his honor, but we economic climate for African­cratic principles upon which tion, without housing, there should also remember My family is also in a satis­Americans. this country was founded; fur­could be no integration. Here, individuals like the abolitionist factory condition except the 
Both the Civil Rights Act of thermore, it was systematically King also followed the lead of Harriet Tubman, whose name fact that nobody is working for 1964 and the Voting Rights Act dehumanizing to both African­several of his African-Amerkan may be less well-remembered, the maintenance of the family. of 1965 exist in large part American slaves and Euro­predecessors. but whose contributions are no We are living on an income of because of King and his American slave holders. While Mohandas Gandhi did less important. Cool-drinks and paraffin, but followers. Today, as ethnic and play a pivotal role in the During Black History Month, of that we are just helpless. cultural differences come to It is here, with the anti­shaping of King's non-violent we remember the prominent re­For more information as you mesh with the established slavery movement, that we first philosophy, there was a distinct cent event, but we must also be are interested concerning the order, King's calls for see an integrated social justice African-American influence in aware of the legacy of which struggle in South Africa, I hope brotherhood and unity can be campaign composed of a the ideas King synthesized into they are but a part. While we to meet you in mid-April if used as a blueprint for greater variety of ethnic and religious social action. King utilized the honor individuals like King who things go well. There is a great understanding in an increas­groups, not unlike the philosophies of Booker T. stand among the great African­possibility that I will be leaving ingly diverse society. composition of the groups who Washington, who focused on Americans of history, it is South Africa on April 16 to 
marched for civil rights in the jobs, and a need for African­equally important to recognize your country. Although, so far 
From a historical standpoint, 1960s. Americans to help themselves; his reverence for the history of I'm not quite sure of the places however, it is revealing to see Among those supporters for he looked to W.E.B. Du Bois, his people, and the strength I will touch, but I also wish to how contemporary events, such racial equality were clergymen who also called for civil rights, that he drew from the contribu­meet you. as the civil rights movement, of all faiths, and at the fore­but emphasized education, and tions of those who came before can trace their origins to an front was King. While minis­a global perspective for him. I can't forget to say we are earlier time. To a generation ters, priests, and rabbis have African-American ambition; he very, very happy for the release that has grown up witnessing always been looked upon as borrowed from Marcus Dr. Patricia Washington is of Comrade Nelson Mandela, "history as it happens," thanks community leaders, within the Garvey's dictum of self­Director of the Office of our leader. to the ever present eye of the African-American community, determination and a need for Minority, International and television camera, it may seem the clergymen has held an even blacks to band together. Non-Traditional Student Life at Yours in Struggle, that African-American history loftier status. African-It is appropriate here to note Saint Mary's College. M. Henry Fazzie 

DOONESBURY 
{X)NNI8, NO. I'MN(Jf5/381N6 ARe>W AN>a-le. IT'S BIMBO 5Titk UMBO UNTil, THIS 51i&/NG 7HIN6 an-5 OFF. 
I
MARI.A 
MAP!£$ 
/NOW~ 
8/fGilJtS, MARJAANO I AReJU5T 6{X){) FR!eNI1S. I IXJN'T KNOW 
51-fe f(}(JNI? ()(f7' I KI4S GREAT IN 
7He 5110<., ~1-116'/?e I?&FIN­
17UY NOT HAVING ANAFFAIR! IF IAJe PJ&RE, 1'/J1<1-KJWABOUTIT. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'For our sakes God make him who did not know sin to be sin, so that in him we might be­come the very holiness of God. 
2 Corinthians 5:22 

---~-----~------­
--------~~-~-~--~~---.l 
1 
I 
j
Accent 
I
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 page 9 
I 

'Shoeless Joe' I Iauthor Kinsella speaks at festival 
JULIE A. HAURVKIEWICZ accent writer 
W.P. Kinsella, the author of "Shoeless Joe," the multi­award-winning novel that became the basis for the 1989 movie "Field of Dreams" starring Kevin Costner, will speak tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. In addition to 
"Shoeless J " the winner of 
Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship Award, Kinsella has authored 15 books and more than 200 short stories, including "The Iowa Baseball Confederacy," "The Moccasin Telegraph," "Dance Me Outside," and "The Fencepost Chronicles," which won the Leacock Medal for Humor in 1987. 
Residing in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, Kinsella is an avid baseball fan. He teaches fiction writing at the University of Calgary yet during the summer­time he indulges in his passion for the game by touring U.S. baseball capitals with his wife, Ann Knight. The two have re­cently co-authored a book of poetry, "The Rainbow Ware­house." 
ELIZABETH VIDA Before it was renovated, the delectable pastries, all at rea­February 23, with several acts, Kinsella's love of writing, as 
well as his love of baseball is accent writer basement of LaFortune used to sonable prices. A cappucino including Father Lardner, evident in "Shoeless Joe," It's bound to happen-you hold a coffee shop called Naz. machine is a possibility in the rector of Grace Hall, who, Victor where he writes: "Writing is 
have a tough test or a paper In 0' Shaughnessy Hall, Wad­future. Krebs mentioned, "is very diffe~ent ... Other people get into due, and the library is too quiet, dick's offers a place for stu­enthusiastic about providing a occupations by accident or byLaFortune is too loud, and your dents and faculty to get to­The Underground, with the new alternative." Father 
dorm is way too distracting. gether. But a place not just for hard work of Krebs, Rudy design; but writers are born.
Lardner entertained the We have to write. I have toGetting comfortable and getting coffee, but for music, art, and Zaragoza, program manager, audience with the harmonica. 
write. I could work at selling
down to work seems like an other entertainment in a casual Brian Packard, Mike Garjiulo, impossible task. Now, however, atmosphere was still lacking on and Mark Molloy, has been Steve Brown, a resident of motels or slopping hogs, for 50 
Grace Hall, attended the St. years, but if someone asked my
there is a new place on campus, campus. transformed into a comfortable Paul and the Martyrs concert at occupation, I'd say writer, evena place where you can study in and relaxing spot that is con­
a quiet atmosphere without The Coffeehouse is the brain­ducive to conversation or The Coffeehouse on Saturday if I'd never sold a word. Writers hearing the lights buzz. On child of Victor Krebs, assistant studying. A copy of Paul Klee's night and was impressed. "It write. Other people talk." 
Kinsella will speak at 8:30weekends, it's a place for rector of Grace Hall and a "Source of Fire" covers one of was packed and we had a cool p.m. this evening in the Res­concerts, comedy, and campus member of Student Govern­the walls, and student photog­time-I would recommend it for burgh Library Auditorium. Inentertainment. It's called The ment's Intellectual Life Commit­raphy exhibits will be displayed a place to hang out on the addition, Kinsella will host aCoffeehouse, and its located in tee. Krebs describes The Cof­on another. Kevin McCormick's weekends". 
forum in the library lounge to­
the basement of Grace Hall, in feehouse as somewhere "people photographs are being dis­what used to be the can go to hang out, be creative, played now. Comfortable chairs The Coffeehouse is open on morrow, March 1, from 11:00 
a.m. to 12:20 p.m. 
Underground. and have a nice conversation." invite quiet reading and a small Wednesdays and Thursdays "Field of Dreams" will be Besides the atmosphere, The stage can hold bands and other from 8:30p.m. to 12:00, Satur­shown at the Snite on Friday,The Coffeehouse is not the Coffeehouse offers gourmet acts for the weekends. day from 8:30 to 1:30, and March 23, at 7:30 and 9:45first of its kind at Notre Dame. coffee, soft drinks, and The Coffeehouse opened Friday, Sunday from 9:30 to 12:30. p.m. 
Dreamdate fantasy dashed by love god 
As a service to the general ing your meal and clothes and * "Ha ha ha ha hal Oh ... to go with you a week ago, but public, Lion Taming is proud to generally making you look like I'm sorry; you weren't serious, I've regained my sanity." answer the questions and solve a complete dorkhead. The girl lan Mitchell were you?" * "I can't make it, something the problems of our loyal read­quickly disappears in a sea of * "''d sooner die a slow and came up -I've just got to get ers (yes, both of them): laughing faces as every person painful death roasted over an my checkbook balanced." 
in the entire dining hall turns Lion Taming open fire, thanks." * "My boyfriend Ralph and I Dear Lion Taming, as one to jeer at your stupidity. * "Oh God, no. Whatever will be ready at eight; by the 
· I've been scoping out News of your embarrassment made you think I'd want to go way, who are you taking?" this gorgeous girl in the dining spreads like wildfire throughout forget it. Ever. Not even if you out with you?" hall since last semester, but I the school, and not even your pay them. So hey-let's be * Scream loudly and hang up Dear Lion Taming, can't seem to get her at­closest friends will give you the careful out there. the phone. Seeing as how you tention. What's an exciting, time of day. Ostracized from * "Urn ... gee ... well ... " (Look don't actually get any mail, different way to get her atten­the loving arms of the Notre Dear Lion Taming, around as if trapped.) "Sure, I these letters are fake, aren't tion? Dame family, you stop shaving This guy asked me out guess so." (Note: this may not they? They look like cheap 
-Stan W. and showering and gradually and I care nothing for him. seem to be cruel enough at first rejects from the Valentine's begin muttering to yourself, How can I make his life as glance, but it does set up stage Day column. What are you 
Ah, the dining hall; site of in­responding to a voice only you miserable as possible? two.) trying to pull, a fast one? numerable romantic begin­can hear. As you fall deeper -Angela R. 2) Accept his invitation, then -Robert D. nings! Perhaps as you reach up into the depths of insanity ... If my experience is any guid•~. cancel when he calls a few days So, Bob-ola, you're back to fill your glass with soda, you Wait, where was I? Oh yes. the most women don't need help on later. again. Well, yeah, these are are distracted by a leggy, point of all this-two things: this one. But for those of you Him: "So, what time should I left-over letters from Valen­buxom, flaxen-haired beauty 1) Getting a girl's attention is interested in advanced cruelty pick you up?" tine's Day which didn't make it who approaches and places ·her relatively easy; keeping it is techniques, there are two basic A few winning responses: into print. But I'm sure my edi­tray seductively close to your hard. approaches to the problem: * "Oh, was that tonight? Gee, tor, who cut them last time, has own; she gazes deeply into your 2) The dining hall is filled 1) Turn him down when he tonight's not really a good night learned her lesson. No matter eyes and her full mouth allur­with hundreds of students with asks you out. This is almost too for me." how long-winded, boring or ingly changes from a tiny pout nothing better to do than scope easy: * The blunt approach: "You obnoxious I get, she'd never to a welcoming smile, and then the opposite sex, and if you put Him: So, do you want to go know, I was really looking for­dare touch a single letter of my a hearty laugh as your glass the moves on a babe there and out sometime? ward to going with you, but I sterling prose now. Yes, I can overflows and soda comes fail, the people you are eating A brief list of some possible got a better offer." write on confidently knowing pouring down your arm, soak-with will never allow you to responses: * "I'm sorry, I know I agreed that I will never be cut off unti 
Sports Wednesday 
February 28, 1990
page 10 
NHL STATISTICS SPORTS LIST SPORTS CALENDAR 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Pab1cll Division 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away DIY 
NY Rangers 28 25 11 67 210 208 15-9-8 13-16-3 11-12-4 
NY Islanders 28 28 8 64 230 228 13-14-6 15-14-2 9-13-6 
Pinsburgh 29 30 5 63 265 291 19-13-1 10-17-4 17-12-2 
New Jersey 26 29 8 60 227 241 15-14-3 11-15-5 13-9-5 
Washington 27 32 4 58 239 234 13-14-2 14-18-2 13-14-0 
Philade'phia 25 31 8 58 232 228 14-15-2 11-16-6 10-13-3 
Adams OMslon 
x-Boston 38 22 5 81 232 183 19-10-2 19-12-3 14-9-3 
x·Buffalo 36 23 6 78 223 201 22-8-2 14-15-4 16-9-2 
x-Montreal 35 23 7 77 238 191 24-8-3 11-15-4 15-9-1 
x-Hartford 28 28 7 63 217 220 12-15-4 16-13-3 10-12-2 
Quebec 11 46 6 28 191 319 7-20-5 4-26-1 3-19-2 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Dlvtslon 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away DIY 
Chicago 35 24 4 74 260 233 21-10-1 14-14-3 10-10-1 
St. Louis 31 25 8 70 238 213 17-11-4 14-14-4 12-13-1 
Toronto 32 29 3 67 281 288 21-8-2 11-21-1 15-9-1 
Minnesota 26 35 3 55 215 238 21-10-1 5-25-2 12-13-1 
Detroit 22 32 10 54 239 267 16-12-5 6-20-5 9-13-2 
Smythe Division 
Calgary 31 20 13 75 274 215 19-6-5 12-14-8 10-12-3 
Edmonton 31 22 12 74 259 229 19-9-5 12-13-7 15-6-4 
Winnipeg 30 26 8 68 234 230 17-10-5 13-16-3 12-8-2 
Los Angeles 27 30 6 60 273 263 17-14-2 10-16-4 10-9-5 
Vancouver 20 36 10 50 196 253 11-14-8 9-22-2 4-15-6 
x-clinched playoff berth 
Wednesday's GarMS Washington at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. 
Quebec at Toronto, 7:30 p.m. New Jersey at Pinsburgh. 7:35p.m. 
Montreal at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia at Vancouver, 10:30 p.m. 
New York Islanders at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Edmonton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
TOP 25 BASKETBALL POLLS 
The Top Twenty Five women's basketball The Top Twenty Five teams in the EASTERN CONFERENCE teams. with first-place votes of 66 women's Associated Press college basketball poll, Atlantic Division Championshipscoaches in parentheses, total points based on with first-place votes in parentheses, records w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni 
Women's tennis at USTA I ITCA
25-24-23-22-21·20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-through Feb. 25, total points based on 25-.648-13-16 21-10
New York 35 19 Lost 2 22-3 
12-11·1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1, season records 24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-12-National Indoors Team
Philadelphia 35 21 .625 1 Won 1 22-4 13-17 27-10 Boston 32
through Feb. 25, points and last week's 11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's 22 .593 3 Won2 18-8 14-14 17-12 Championships ranking as compiled by Mel Greenberg of The ranking: 22 34 14 15-13 13-20
Washington .393 Won 1 7-21 Men's tennis at H.E.B. Collegiate New Jersey 
Philadelphia Inquirer: Record Pis Pvs 13 41 .241 22 Lost 2 9-17 4-24 10-21 
Championships

Record Pis Pvs 1. Kansas (41) 27-2 1,570 2 Miami 11 46 .193 251/2 Lost2 6-22 5-24 7-31 
1. 
La. Tech (60) 26-0 1,548 1 2. UNLV (14) 24-4 1,492 4 Hockey in Huntsville for Alabama

Central Division 


2. 
Stanford (2) 24-1 1,487 3 3. Missouri (5) 25-3 1,448 1 Detroit 40 15 .727-Won 1 24-3 16-12 27-9 Faceoff Tournament 

3. 
Tennessee 23-4 1,412 4 4. Connecticut ( 1) 24-4 1,293 6 Chicago 34 20 .630 5 1/2 Won 5 21-2 13-18 18-12 


Men's vs. MISSOURI, 2:30 (NBC) 
4. Washington 22-2 1,328 5 5. Duke(!) 23-5 1,288 3 Milwaukee 32 23 .582 8 Won4 20-8 12-15 17-14 
Lacrosse vs. CANISIUS
5. 
Nev.·Las Vegas 25-2 1,312 2 (tie) Oklahoma 21-4 1,288 10 29 26 11 Won 1 19-8 10-18 17-13

Indiana .527 

6. 
Georgia 24-3 1,259 7 7. Georgetown 21-4 1,230 5 9-20 17-19 COLLEGE, 12:30 p.m. 

Atlanta 26 29 .473 14 Won3 17-9 

7. 
Sleph. F. Austin 24-2 1,159 8 8. Michigan 20-5 1,170 7 Cleveland 25 28 .472 14 Won3 17-12 8-16 16-18 Men's swimming at the Eastern 

8. 
Texas 20-4 1,096 6 9. Purdue 20-5 972 9 11-15 4-25 10-27


Orlando 15 40 .273 25 Lost 7 Intercollegiate Championships 
9. N. Carolina St. 22-4 1,083 9 10. Syracuse 20-5 967 11 
Men's track at IC4As in Boston
1
0. Long Beach St. 22-5 959 12 11 . Georgia Tech 20-5 938 8 

11. 
Iowa 19-5 876 13 12. Arkansas 22-4 918 13 Baseball at St. Mary's (Texas) 


WESTERN CONFERENCE 
12. 
Auburn 21-6 792 11 13. La 5alle (2) 25-1 874 14 


Midwest Division 

13. 
Northwestern 20-3 769 16 14. Michigan St. 22-5 827 15 w L Pet GB Streak Home Away Coni Sunday 

14. 
Hawaii 23-2 760 14 15. LSU 21-6 646 12 16 .709-Won5 26-3 13-13 25-8 Women's tennis at USTA 1 ITCA

Utah 39 

15. 
Virginia 23-5 737 10 16. Oregon St. 21-4 597 17 


San Antonio 37 17 .685 11/2 Won3 23-4 14-13 25-8 National Indoors Team 
16. 
Purdue 19-6 575 15 17. Minnesota 19-6 454 18 Dallas 31 23 .574 71/2 Won2 20-8 11-15 19-19 

Championships

17. 
South Carolina 18-7 387 20 t8.111inois 19-6 447 19 Denver 29 25 .537 91/2 Lost 1 20-8 9-17 16-17 

18. 
N. Illinois 22-4 383 22 1g, Xavier, Ohio 23-2 442 19 Houston 24 30 .444 14 1/2 Lost 1 19-7 5-23 14-20 Women's swimming at Cleveland 

19. 
Arkansas 21-3 361 25 20. Clemson 22-5 400 23 Minnesota 14 40 .259 241/2 Lost 3 12-17 2-23 7-25 State Invitational 

20. 
s. Mississippi 22-3 344 17 21. Louisville 20-7 330 16 Chari one 9 43 .173 28 1/2 Lost 4 8-20 1-23 6-27 Men's tennis at H.E.B. Collegiate

21. 
Louisiana St. 19-7 294 19 22. Loyola Mary'nt 22-5 325 22 Paclftc Dlvtsion Championships

22. 
Providence 22-4 270 23 23. Arizona 19-6 318 21 L.A. Lakers 40 13 .755-Lost 1 24-4 16-9 23-8 

23. 
Tennessee Tech 21-4 256 18 24. New Mexico St. 23-3 186 24 Portland 37 17 .685 31/2 Lost 3 24-4 13-13 26-9 Softball at Indiana 

24. 
St. Joseph's 20-5 160 21 25. Georgia 19-6 172 Phoenix 35 17 .673 4 1/2 Won8 23-5 12-12 25-10 Baseball at Trinity 

25. 
Penn St. 20-5 97-12 19-7 9-18 14-15


Seanle 28 25 .528 Won5 Others receiving votes: Connecticut 72, Other receiving votes: St. John's 75, Golden State 24 30 .444 161/2 Lost 6 19-8 5-22 15-18 Monday Montana 45, Missouri 39, Maryland 37, Houston 34, E. Tennessee St. 21, SW 191/2 Lost 7 14-12 7-21 11-23 Men's basketball vs. KENTUCKY,
L.A. Clippers 21 33 .389 Vanderbilt 32, Florida St. 31, Clemson 28, Missouri St. 12, Virginia 12, Louisiana Tech 
Sacramento 15 39 .278 251/2 Lost 3 12-17 3-22 9-28 7:30 p.m. (SC-delayed broadcast) Mississippi 26, Kansas 22, Toledo 11, DePaul 10, /\!a.-Birmingham 8, Alabama 6, Texas 5, 
Monday's Games Dallas at Boston, 7:30p.m. 
9, Richmond 9, Dartmouth 8, UCLA 8, Kansas Brigham Young 4, N. Carolina St. 4, Idaho 3, TuesdaySt. 7, Colorado 6, Fairfield 6, Notre Dame 6, /ndia·na 2, Memphis St. 2, UC Santa Barbara 
Philadelphia 129, Orlando 1'10 Sacramento at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Atlanta 123, Miami 114 Indiana at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Women's basketball at DetroitOregon 6, Fresno St. 5, St. Peter's 5, Maine 4, 2, California 1, Colorado St. 1, Coppin St. 1, San Antonio 105, Sacramento 96 Los Angeles Lakers at Seanle, 10 p.m. March7Alabama 3, Miami-Ohio 3, Utah 2, w. Hawaii 1, Holy Cross 1, Ohio St. 1, Penn St. 
Wednesday's Games San Antonio at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Kentucky 2, Miami-Florida 1, Michigan 1. 1, Southam U. 1. No sports scheduled 
SCOREBOARD BIG TEN STANDINGS 
Results from Feb. 21-28 Notre Dame 20, Michigan State 7 Fairleigh Dickinson beat Notre Women's swimming w L Pet w L Pet Women's basketball (19-6) Notre Dame 22, E. Michigan 4 Dame 10-6 to snap the squad's 21-Notre Dame won the Eastern Purdue 12 3 .800 20 5 .800 Michigan St 11 3 .786 22 5 .815
Notre Dame 85, Xavier 61 Notre Dame 23, Lawrence 4 game winning streak Intercollegiate Swimming 
Michigan 10 4 .714 20 5 .800
Men's tennis (11-1) Away: Notre Dame 10, Yale 6 outscoring two-time defending 
Minnesota 10 5 .667 19 6 .760 
Notre Dame 6, Minnesota 3 Princeton ended Notre Dame's 46-Notre Dame 15, Rutgers 1 champion West Virginia 670-612.5 
Illinois 9 7 .563 19 7 .731 Women's tennis (5-3) bout winning streak, with a 17-10 Notre Dame 14, Princeton 2 100 breaststroke-Becky Wood Ohio State 8 7 .533 14 11 .560 16
Notre Dame 7, Illinois 2 victory Men's basketball (14-10) (1 :07.27) Indiana 6 8 .429 8 .667 
Iowa 3 12 .200 11 14 .440
Notre Dame 6, Kansas State 3 Notre Dame 16, Yale 10 Georgia Tech 88, Notre Dame 80 200 breaststroke-Wood 
Wisconsin 3 12 .200 13 15 .464 
(2:24.70)

Notre Dame 9, Drake 0 Notre Dame 18, Rutgers 9 OT N'Western 2 13 .133 9 16 .360 Notre Dame 8, Miami (Ohio) 1 Women's fencing (21-1) Hockey (18-13) 400 individual medley-Tanya Sunday's Results Wrestling (6-8) Home: Notre Dame 6, Michigan-Doarborn Williams (4:26.43)-Eastern Michigan State 72, Indiana 66 
Monday's Results 

Iowa 36, Notre Dame 5 Notre Dame 14, Miami (Ohio) 2 3 Intercollegiate record 
Ohio State 86, Illinois 80 Men's fencing (24-1) Notre Dame 10, E. Michigan 6 Baseball (1-2) 200 butterfly-Williams, second Wednesday Game 
Home: Notre Dame 16, Lawrence 6 Hawaii 6-12, Notre Dame 0-l (2:05.72) Purdue at Iowa 

Notre Dame 25, Miami 2 Away: 

Bruno's 
ll: I Nonh Eddy f(itkM.Iwdl Phlt.al 
Suuth lk:nd. lm.llilll<~ 
~H~l-'<•:!S 

J14~$6.oo-FReEoe!wERv··--1 
I 16" $8.00 with coupon I I 8" $10 00 I
.,lmltOM,.,,.,plzziJ

I 1 · -prices oertain to deliveries only-I 
LARGE PARTIES (minimum 12 people)
~---------------------­
•All 
you can eat for $4.00 at Bruno's 

•Free 
pop and specials *Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays only 


289-4625 
GETA~CTIVE!! 
RECYCLE 

NOTRE DAME 
I.Zi,ii»l IZ.Qtj 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
I Aluminum • Newspapers • Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 The Observer page 11 
both the men's and women's next year." one diver are seniors. success this year," Welsh said. The women's victory in the "This meet is like the first
Swim 
"In the Easterns. each person Easterns foreshadows good meet of next year. You carry 
continued from page 16 knew exactly what to do. The things to come for the squad in the feeling you end the year on game plan was very accurate the future. Of the 19 member into the next season." noted and specific. We will miss him squad, only one swimmer and Welsh. 
The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
Classifieds 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? BEST OFFER: 2 Miss & 2 Kent Come rain, sleet or snow, ND/SMC 2 bedroom furnished apt. tix. Call Mike x2727 The Windy City Shuttle still comes
'---N_O_T_IC_ES___.jj [ WANTED available for subleasing and goes! Get the "SCOOP" on campus 
Call Now!!! 284-4070 My brother has been threatening Tickets only $10 at the LaFortune bands ....... .. TYPING AVAILABLE OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 me all year to get him NO tickets. Information Desk. ......... THEN come out and see 287-4082 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII PLEASE sell me your Missouri GAs 
Slimfast,

Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write before this ND grad takes drastic ST. PAUL and the MARTYRS EXPERT TYPING IJC, PO Bx 52-JN04, Corona Del measures. Will pay$$. call Diane 
at 284-5178. Why should I go home to mommy this SATURDAY, March 3 at
$3/PG Mar, CA 92625. FOR SALE when I can go to your girl's house? 
291-3829 CLUB 23 
••••••FEELING GUlLTY?'..'' 
SPRING BREAK RIDERS NEEDED Come to GUlLT: FROM RUPTURE to drive back to Boston/NH area for IBM PC system: color-graphics, PERSONALS Tough Luck! 
printer, &software:$! 000 or best Zaf
TO RECONCILIATION on Wed, break & share expenses. Call Kara Mary Ann S. Have a nice day!! I 2128 from 6:30-8:00 in the Foster 1825. Love your busy bees I 
offer-call X1090 & leave message. 
W.P. KINSELLA-

Room at Lafortune. Presented by CAPTAIN BONEHEAD OF author of FIELD OF DREAMS
WALSH, ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT A wizard must be careful with the 
the University Counseling Center. To the Fighting F-gs of 814 and 
the 'Nises: SPRING BREAK IN THE SUN Drummer & Guitarist seek HOMES from $1 (U-repair). "dangerous liasons;" and after at Grace's COFFEEHOUSE Cheer up and prepare tor 
SERIOUS musicians tor Bookstore--All is not lost!! 
Delinquent tax property. yesterday's, I'm afraid it's beyond Wednesday at 1 0:30 PM 
Repossessions. Call 1-602-838-my controi...DAS KRIEG!!!!!!!!! 8885 Ext. GH 6262. To speak informally with students 
Guaranteed Lowest Prices I Progressive & Rock band: Vocalist 
•cancun--$424 (Guitar or Keyboard playing ability P.S. Thanks to Ray Flannery and 
and faculty Mary, Carrie and Tracy: Here's a

South Padre--$169 a plus). Bassist & Joe Hippler for a great season. 
ATIENTJON-GOVERNMENT personal tor y'all so you don't have SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. . to read other people's. 
'Bahamas--$469 Keyboardist(male or female w/ W.P. KINSELLA
•(Airfare included) good voice). Pro. equipment & Call Ted x3276 good attitude a must. Call Ken PHILIP KRAKER 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, P.S. Jimmy B ain~ bad neither! Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­
X3303 THE (late) TOP TEN QUOTES Will it be the NBA or ~e business 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
FROM THE VIOLENCE FORMAL world? Choices, choices. Consult 
hiag

EXPERT TYPING AVAILABLE. Neeld a ride to Md, Va, or DC your cruise 
1986 Toyota 4x2 pickup, 23,000 
CALL LIZ 234-1075 AFTER 1 PM. area over break. Will pay and help 10. "Ryan, Brad ... are you two director Julie McCoy to help 
loving miles. AM-FM, Heavy 
drive. Call Tom 4180 • make your choice. 
together or what?

Bumper/Hitch. $5,800 or B/0. HAPPILY MARRIED COUPLE & 
9. "I've got to get some play­NEED A BABYSITIER? 21 YR HOPEFUL BIG BROTHER LONG SENIORS, SENIORS, 
271-8016. 

l've got ticket #007." OLD. NO SENIOR, WILLING TO ATIENTION-HIRING! TO SHARE A LIFETIME OF LOVE SENIORS ... GET A DATE NOW. 
8. "Nick, what are you doing?" SIT EVENINGS. HAVE CAR/WILL Government jobs -your area. WITH YOUR BABY. LEGAL & SENIOR FORMAL BID SALES 
7. "Here, Lambo ... just be sureFor Sale: Marshall amplifier 

TRAVEL, RATES NEGOTIABLE. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-CONFIDENTIAL. CALL COLLECT. THIS TUES., WED., AND THURS. 
to take the bus, O.K.?" CALL MICHELLE 283·1825. 8885, EXT R6262. SHELLEY & GLENN 215-343­
Call Scott @ x3405 6. "Colacino -that's not your 
8445. 
date!"

80' FORD FAIRMONT. HAPPY
MAIL BOXES ETC. COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: 5. "Where's Opie?" 
AUTOMATIC, A/C. 110,000 MI. 
SCOTI WALKER... RUNS OK. $640. CALL LEE, 272­
Shipping, Packaging, Copies. Outstanding brother/sister sports 4. "Raho, get out of the BIRTHDAY 
Resumes from $15.00. camps -22 mile lake near "On Get OUT of MY section! fountain. It's non-alcoholic 
8538. GIL!!!!!!!!!
277-MAIL Golden Pond" site seek staff. 
anyway.'' Interviews avail. Transp. paid. Girls SOPHOMORES!! 3. "Mike, is that BECKY?!?!" INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund -215-884-3326; boys-914-698-75 Buick Runs good Get ready: "A girl dressed like that came to
2. "You play for Georgia Tech? in 3 Days to 2 Weeks! 1833. THE SOPHOMORE EXPRESS dance."
X3013 

You guys are nothing!"MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 is on it's way. -G.G. Chicago '90 
1. "Hey, Cuda, where's the ARTIST TO ILLUSTRATE MAPS 
WHERE? Union Station receipt book?" 

For a hot tip on where FOR BOOK. CALL JOHN M-F WHEN? Friday, March 2, from Don't play any dr. ..kng games. to find a good time TICKETS 9:30 pm to 1:OOam That's nothing but trouble!!!!! 
I OAM-4PM 255-8700 HAPPY HAsh WEDNESDAY! Call 647-0900 ext 17 40 Featuring the band: 
St. Mary's Campus Events CRUISE SHIPS now hiring all SCRAPE YOUR BOWL AND PUT 
"SMOKE TAXI" HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ho~ine poSitions. Both skilled and NEED Missouri tickets. Please help Tickets are $15.00 per couple and THE RESIN ON YOUR GIL unskilled. For information Call FOREHEAD!
x3815. on sale NOW!!!! 
(615) 779-5507 Ext. R-200. They include two souvenior from the bad boys in the other glasses and round trip section
I want to buy your Missouri 

I need a ride to K.C., or St. Louis, WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! transportation. Ticket --Call 283-2785 ATIENTION ALL WSND STAFF 
St. Edwards Hall Forum 
Mo., or to Ottumwa, Ia WANT DEAD TIX FOR SHOWS IN
Father Oliver Williams, 
ove1r Spring Break. Will help with LANDOVER,MD OVER BREAK Ride Needed To NH/Boston area 
for Spring Break. Will share driving The WSND Executive Staff Call Maureen 284-4336 $$$ & expenses. Call 283-3442. cordially orders you to attend 
CSC, Associate Provost 
driv1ng and expenses. WILL TRADE MY MIZZOU AND GOING TO CINCINNAT1 3/9-1 0? 
GA. TECH HOOPS TIX PLUS $$$ Please take me with you!$$$
Speaks On: 
our SEMI-ANNUAL MANDATORY 
PLEASE CALL CHRIS 283 4078 Tanya x3688. 
"What I think about 
Looking for someone to house sit DELLI!!! You rule! MEETING, to be held Wed., 
this summer? Responsible From your Amazon queen. February 28, in the Puzzle 
Nelson Mandala 
I NEED 3 TICKETS TO THE ND MEN'S SWIMMERS St. Marys student is available NOTRE DAME -MISSOURI GAME Bust the move at Easterns! 
Room of Breen-Phillips. 
and the Future of 
Dinner will be catered (so
stan:ing in May. Call Aimie Vargas ON MARCH 3. CALL CHRIS AT Good Luck! Love, THE CHICS 
South Africa" 
$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ don't eat before), entertain­
284-4417. 502-582-1920. 
Need Billy Joel Tickets!!!! LINUS-ment will be provided (via the 
A First-Hand Report 
Worse than you could believe!! Good Luck this weekend! :53.2 pleasure of one another'sNEED 3 KENTUCKY LOWER 
Thursday, March 1 
Please call #2030 or #4819!! and 1 :53.00 -you can do it! company), and station busi-ARENA G.A.'S. 
SUMMER JOBS 
Don't forget,$$$$$$$$$$HI!H!H Love, LUCY ness will be handled. 
7:00p.m. 
CALL BRYCE X1646pouNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. 
COME ANNOUNCERS, COME 
St. Edward's Hall 
I Girls Camp, Maine ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF NEWS STAFF, COME $Need Missouri Tix X1418 $ Top Salary, Rm/Bd!Laundry, Travel PRAYER AND JOYOUS NOCTURNE,Allowance. 
ND Student Art Forum COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A COME ALL!!! 
I Need Missouri tickets, both GAs Must love kids and have skill in one of Faculty Lecture Series: CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: and student. Please call Jeanne atthe following activities: POOR GLARES, 
LOST/FOUND 
2600 and leave a message.
Archery, Arts & Crafts. Baseball, Dick Stevens of ND Photo.dept 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., SUGAR CUBES 
Basketball, Bicycling, Chet~rleading, "My Work In Progress" KOKOMO,IN 46901. tickets still on sale
Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, I Need Missouri Tix! 
Rm. 200 LaFortune LOST l;uitar, Gymnastics. Hockey, Horseback, Kevin x1758 

Thursday, March 1. $27.00 ticket and bus Pair of glasses in a burgundy Nu­Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, 
7pm ir\ the Snite Museum CLUB 23 last day is Wednesday! 
Vision case. Please call x2967 if Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, found. Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Sculry. 
all Welcome WVFIAM640
HEY!! GOOD SAMARITAINS!!! Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, 
Offering our specialty

PLEEEEZ help me out here!!!! LOST: GREY J.D. CASE in the Weights, Wood. Men call or write: 
MIDDLE EAST CUISINE GOING TO INDY OR IU THISI DESPARATEL Y need to trade scon scon scon scon Open for dinner 5 -11 pm WEEKEND?
coatroom of the Snite Thursday, 2-Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, my MIZZOU student ticket for a GA Monday to Saturday I need a ride & can leave by22 at 5:10P.M. To the person who Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 
for my wonderful father! took this, you were seen and I.D. 381-S983. Women call or write: Camp 
Happy birthday on March 2. 12 on Fri. Will share driving & PLEEZ call Bryan at 272-7313 21 finally!!l!!!l!! expenses. Call Shannon x1326.
V81;i8, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MAed. Return it immediately and no 
to help out a man in need!!l THE CLUB 23 questions will be asked. 
02332 (617) 934-6536. GILBERT GILBERT GILBERT SATURDAY
$$$$1 REALLY NEED TWO Featuring up & coming bands. 
SATURDAY CLUB 23
LOST: a walkman from the MISSOURI STUDS OR GA'S. Don't miss our evening Need ride to Baltimore/D.C for SATURDAY
Rocke. It was a x-mas present, $$ PLEASE CALL PETE AT #2043. specials. reward offered-no questions. call [ FOR RENT J LEAVE MESSAGE. Spring Break. Will pay $$. Kathy 234-3541 'MO' 
x4914 St. Paul and the Martyrs 
x1703. OH BOY I REALLY NEED Rico, Rich's brother and Recliner 
SATURDAY
HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL TICKETS FOR THE MISSOURI man,
Please help a poor culturally SATURDAY CLUB 23
Lost!! Lost!! Lost!! Lost!! YEAR. GAME--CALL X1128. I wish we never would have 
deprived Mexican child to see SATURDAY
KEYS & ID in a blue Notre Dame FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 5 gotten stuck as 
.,

Wash. D.C. over break by giving 
pouch between library auditorium BDHM, WID. CLOSE TO ND. NEED Missou tix roommates last year. I knew youhim and two friends a ride there for 
and Cushing Hall at around 2:00 COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264-4 GA's and 2 Studs guys would get break. Will share expenses. Call
on Monday, Feb 6010. Please call Matt x2265 me in nothing but trouble. First my Al@1081.
26. Please call Ann X4972 grades, now 
SUMMER RENTAL 6/1-8/1 NEED MISSOURI TIXS.272-6306 this, what's next? Top 10 from Ruth's 21st 
5 Bdrm,2 Bath,Furnished Whatever it is, let's do it. 
1. 7 feet of inflatable fun 

Found: Men's ring outside $120p.mnth p.prsn Help me!! My parents need 2 2. It looks like it will snow tomorrow
South Dining Hall. Call David 515 W. Marion Mizzou B-ball Tix. Thank's for a great b-day, 
3. I feel bloated

x.3233 JON x2506 Call Mike #2940 Mike X 
4. 
We got to PULL this one out of context

5. 
What did you blow? 



FOUND: One black Studio Six FUFlNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Need 2 Missori Tix call Mike 
shoe at St. Ed's late Friday Night SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 x3597 
6. Is it in there yet? 

(Did you walk barefoot?) ADOPTION
7. Maybe you should slow down 

Call# 4364 to identify and claim. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY NEED Missouri tikets. Please help Physician and wife, happily 
your approach ~@0@0
219-291-7153 x3815. married for ten years, would dearly 
8. Did you have the receipt? 

Did you lose a 1 inch diameter gold love to adopt a baby. We have a
9. If you could be a woman would $1 OFF earring near Wash Hall ? To We have tickets for the following you do it? comfortable home to share and 
recover your earring,please come SUMMER SUBLEASE events at the LaFortune Box 10. Do they have cigarettes in your most ·Importantly lots of love, I 12" international I 
TURTLE CREEK APTS. 
to 213 St. Ed's with the correct patience and understanding. We
Office: 
bathroom too? 

match. 272-7449 live on 20 rolling acres with a large I combo
1. The Importance of Being Earnest HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETHERS!!! lawn, pond and woods. We will LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! 2. John Kolisch LOVE, SHELBY provide your child with the best 
A gold, Gruen watch l ano 4 bedrm. furnished 3. George Carlin educational opportunities. We will Free Delivery with a smooth brown band houses; 90-91 year. Great 4. Dream Girls I need a ride to Grand Rapids, Ml pay medical and legal expenses. 
expires 3/8/90 

in between Knott and St. Ed's. cond. /area. Bruce: 234-3831 5. Gallagher 3/1 or 3/2. Please call Jeni 284-Please call collect for a recorded Call Brad at x1701. or 288-5653 6. Oh Calcutta 5017. message. (219) 625-4205. 


The Observer 
Ellery 
continued from page 16 

Phelps likes the positives that 
Ellery has to offer. 

"He can help this team in many different ways," explains Phelps. "He can make the out­side shot and he can also help out inside, so that players like (LaPhonso) Ellis and (Keith) Robinson can get inside and score the baskets." 
Ellery can play anywhere from outside the three-point arc to inside the paint., a flexi­bility that helps a team but can be hard on the player. 
"It's kind of difficult to play inside as a big man and play outside as a guard," says Ellery. "You can get confused and mixed up, but other than that it doesn't really matter. I'd rather defend a guard than a big man. The guard is smaller, and the big men elbow me and stuff like that." 
At 6-5, 235, Ellery combines the characteristics of a guard and a forward. Inside, he has to make up his height disadvan­tage by playing physical and boxing out, a trying .aspect of the game he could probably do without. 
"If I go up against a guy that's 6-8. thmu!h I might be 
stronger than him, if they can 
get the ball up to him close· to 
the basket he can just turn 
around and shoot over me be­
cause of my height," says 
Ellery. "So I try to keep him 
away from the basket as far as 
I can, kind of pushing him out 
so he can't turn around on me 
and·shoot. 

"Sometimes it's hard on me to keep my composure when they're all bodying me. When I play outside it's not like that. I just keep my hand up on a guy so he won't shoot. It's a big dif­ference." 
In recent games especially, Ellery has not been getting much playing time. In Saturday's overtime loss to Georgia Tech, he did not play. 
Averaging only 12 minutes. it is difficult to keep up the inten­sity when he sits on the bench. When Phelps calls him in, he has to be ready to respond, and respond well. 
"It's tough," says Ellery. "You wish you were in the game, be­cause you feel you can help out, but you have to learn to accept it. That's just the way things have to be at that time. Maybe the ne~.t game you'll get your chance. 
"It's not that I'm unhappy, it's just that I would like to play more, maybe help the team out 
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 
a little more than I am sitting on the bench," says Ellery. "I can't go against what he (Phelps) says, but I have to ac­cept what he says and just go out and do my best." 
Ellery has shown flashes of excellence during the season. In 107-60 romp over Miami (Fla.) on January 27, his 17 points and 12 rebounds were both tops on the team. 
One aspect of his game that he has been critieized for has been his inconsistency. The box scores sometimes reveal few stats to justify his minutes played, as in his two points in 14 minutes in last week's loss to DePaul. 
"That's just the style of player he is," says Phelps. "He's obviously not a quick player, so people might think he's not giv­ing his all out there. But he makes things happen." 
Ellery has a clear conscience about it. 
"I think when I got into the game I did my best, gave the team a boost," he explains. "Sometimes it worked and sometimes it didn't. To me I think I did my job. To others it might seem like I didn't do enough as far as effort. or whatever you want to call it. But I think I've done my share." 
Bengal Bouts feature close con1petition in matches tonight 
"Sugar" Cane will attempt to Wisconsin, whose fight was continue his title defense by us-stopped in the the second round ing his superb quickness to on Sunday. keep sophomore Jody Armetta Finally, senior co-captain off guard. The other 154-pound Chris Balint, a veritable bull­match will pit senior John dozer who lost 24 pounds to Bastian against sophomore prepare for Bengal Bouts, and Colin Mullaney. Mike Trainor will be heavy fa­
In the 162-pound division, a vorites in their 167-poundfierce battle could erupt when matchups against Brendan experienced junior Norm Conley Teehan and Garth Behrje re­faces Ed Schmitt of Colgate, spectively. 
~ SENIORS:
rN 

Be a missioner for one year, ~ teaching English in Kyo to, ]apan 
~················· 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The 180-and 185-pound divi­sions will begin fighting tonight at 7:30 in the north dome of the Joyce ACC in the semifinals of the 60th Bengal Bouts after be­ing idle in Sunday's quarterfinal round. 
Defending 185-pound cham­pion Ricky Purcell is very anx­ious to get underway, although he knows very little about his opponent, Elizabeth, N.J. native John Carney. 
"I've been going nuts," says Purcell, who is a walk-on cornerback on the Notre Dame football team. "I wanted to fight so bad on Sunday that I can't stand it. But Wednesday will be here soon enough, and I'll be ready to go." 
The other 185-pound match will pit law student Robert Urban against senior Steve Vankoski. In the 180-pound di­vision, Pittsburgh Kurt Heil will meet fellow senior Chris Kiley and junior Mike Baumer will square off with Michael Ryan of West Salsbury, Connecticut. 
The most intriguing matchup of the night may be the 158­pound battle between two-time champion Vance Becklund and senior Dave Tyndall, who showed his punching power when he forced the referee to stop his fight against Adam Selke 1:16 into the third round of their quarterfinal matchup on Sunday. 
"(Tyndall) is sort of wild at times, and he throws good, strong punches," says Becklund. "The worst thing I could do is get careless. I'm going to have to stick to basics and fight my fight out there." 
Another two-time champ, se­nior Doug Biolchini, will have to contend with adversity in his 144-pound matchup against ju­nior Matthew Potts. Biolchini needed 10 stitches on his chin after his unanimous quarterfi­nal victory over John Padgett on Sunday. 
"I expect the cut to open up," says Biolchini. "I'm going to tell the judges that the cut will be the reason for the bleeding. It's not going to bother me at all. A broken hand, a hurt wrist, or a sore neck would hurt you, but a cut on the chin won't." 
Biolchini is more concerned with Potts, who scored a unanimous decision over senior pound division could be the Daniel Roberts on Sunday. matchup between senior John 
"He's an excellent fighter. He Manfredy and junior Bill is tough as nails. I fought him Wheeler. The powerful my sophomore year, and he is a Manfredy forced the referee to tough guy. He's got a good stop his fight 1:28 into the first right, throws good, clean com-round on Sunday while Wheeler binations and he works really defeated Benjamin Supnet on a hard. It's going to be a helluva unanimous decision in the fight to watch," claims quarterfinals. Biolchini. In the 154-pound division, 
A fight to watch in the 134-Bengal Bout co-captain Dave 
r 


is currently accepting applications for th12 following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by Friday, March 2 to Colleen Cronin. For further information, contact Colleen Cronin at 239-5303. 
The Thomas J. White Center, Right to Life, The Center for Civil and Human Right:s and the Center for Social Concerns Present. .. 
Two lectures with anti-war and pro-life activist and writer 
Juli Loesch Wiley: 
CDJOOilCB CDDxBciiDCBffi0CB§ ~ ffiJ0CDG:lc00IDCBffi0CB 
12:15 p.m. Law School Courtroom 

7:30 p.m. Montgomery Theatre Lafortune Student Center 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1ST 

n o t r e dame Student Art Forum presents: Student/Faculty Lecture Series with DICK STEVENS of the Notre Dame Photography Dept. "My Work in Progress" Thursday, March 1st 7:00pm in the Snite Museum ofArt I  



~~--­

Wednesday, February 28, 1990 
?L~YERS 
GET THE GOLD 
SHAIFT 
Two discontent baseball fans express their anger as stalled negotiations continue to cancel Spring Training in Florida and Arizona. 
AP Photo 

Bic stic c1r
99 
Brite Lil:a.er 
SAVE 1.00. 
A. ~-pk. Brite Liner Y highlighters or 
ea. 10-pk. Stic. blue or black. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I 
Ml(•r•@:l;;~+fll.',liJ;!olt)J:!:JHI~ 
iii Reprint -~ 
Specialslg 
Hook's Coupon Hook's Coupon 
Big Shot 
4"x6" 
Reprints 
From 135 color nega11ves 
Hook's Drugs & Gillette
Save •1oo on Tickets!
Generic drugs 
Indiana Flower & Patio Show 
Indiana High Five
can help you stay 
March 10 thru 18, 1990 
All-Star Team
Indiana State Fairgrounds 
healthy :for less. 
Vote for your favonte Indiana H1gh School Senior Basketball 
Buy your tickets in advance for 
player. male or female. Popular v~te will det~rmine the
4.00 each (gate price 5.00) at 
High-Frve Team members. See details at the Gillette display
C!!b.""~~~ 
Hook's Dependable Drug Stores 
1n your local Hook's Dependable Drug Store. No purchase necessary.
Dependable Drllg Slores now thru March 9. 
Kodak Film 
SAVE 1.00. 24-exposure 135/200 ISO 

149 Liquid 
~~0~pbottle 

----~~-----------~-------------~------------­
The Observer page 13 
Oklahoma wins again, upsetting No.1 KU 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) ­Oklahoma beat the No. 1 team in the country for the second time in three days Tuesday night with an easy 100-78 vic­tory over Kansas. 
The fifth-ranked Sooners (22­
4) had beaten then-No. 1 Missouri 107-90 on Sunday and the outcome was even more 
Dayton 
continued from page 16 
point margin and fell 63-62 to the Blue Demons, then squan­dered a 14-point advantage and lost 88-80 in overtime to the Yellow Jackets. 
"I think we played very well the past week," Phelps said. "I think we're playing as well as we have in a long time. I don't want these kids to lose their confidence. 
159:Microwave 
Coke or
Popping 
Sprite
Corn 

0 2-liter bottle. Regular, Choice ol flavors diet, caffeine-free, ea. By Orville Redenbacher. Classic or cherry. 
SAVE 70C. 

REV LON 
REVLON 
Ultra

189Revlon Nail 
Slim•Fast
Enamel 
SAVE 2.40.
Remover 

559 
14-oz. can.
ea. Choice of formulas. 
Choice of flavors. 

convincing against the Jayhawks (27 -3). 
The wins extended Oklahoma's homecourt winning streak to 45 games and the lat­est was played before a record crowd of 12,166 at Lloyd Noble Center. 
Oklahoma used some impres­sive defense to force a season­
"There's a lot of basketball left for us. It's going to be crazy in college basketball the last two weeks. Our next objec­tive is to play Dayton." 
After their 97-79 loss to the Irish, the Flyers dropped games to Xavier and Loyola, but have bounced back to post a five-game win streak. They are 16-9 overall, 9-4 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and could challenge for that league's automatic NCAA bid in the post-season tourney. 
Senior guard Negele Knight 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD EVENTS; 
"PRRENTHOOO" Wednesday and Thursday in Carroll Auditorium at 9:00 and 11:15 $1.00 admission 
LeMans Formal tickets on sale this week in lobby 
Senior Formal Bid Sales at ND tonight from 6-9 in Notre Dame Room-LaFortune and tomorrow night at SMC in LeMans Lobby 6-9 
------~~­
high 26 turnovers and hand 

Kansas  its  first  loss  to  any  
team other t han Missouri.  
The  win  also  pulled  the  

Sooners even with Kansas in the Big Eight standings at 10-3, one game behind first-place Missouri. 
Skeeter Henry led the Sooners with 23 points. 
has been the big spark for Dayton in that five-game streak. He scored 70 points in the last two Flyer victories, in­cluding a career-high 42 against Detroit, and has earned MCC Player of the Week honors three of the past five weeks. 
Knight leads Dayton in scor­ing (21.8 ppg), assists (5.8), steals (1.8), free-throw per­centage (81 percent) and three­point percentage (49 percent). 
"I think Knight is a great point guard," Phelps said. "He's taking charge offensively. I think Knight is as explosive as Kenny Anderson." 
Anderson scored 32 points in leading Georgia Tech to the come-from-behind victory over the Irish. 
Notre Dame will also need to contain senior forward Anthony Corbitt, who scores 
15.6 points per game. The re­maining Dayton starters are forward Noland Robinson (9.4 ppg), center Wes Coffee (3.4 ppg) and guard Ray Springer 
(7.5 ppg). 
Elmer Bennett has been a big spark for the Irish in the past several games. Over the last 14 contests, he is averaging 14.4 points, 28.9 minutes, 4.6 as­sists and has shot 50.5 percent from the field. In the last four games, he has scored 18.3 points per game, including a career-high 21 against Georgia Tech. 
"I think Elmer Bennett has been a big spark to our of­fense," Phelps said. "I think he's getting a lot more confi­dence each time he goes out there." 
The remainder of the lineup should stay the same -Joe Fredrick (13. 7 ppg) at the other guard, Keith Robinson 
(14.5 ppg, 7.8 rpg) at center and LaPhonso Ellis (14.8 ppg, 
12.6 rpg) and Monty Williams 
(7.5 ppg) at forwards. 
NOTES -Notre Dame leads the series with Dayton 22-10 and has won the last eight meetings by an average of 12.5 points per game...Knight, a fifth-year senior, is the lone Flyer to have a victory against the Irish...Robinson is hitting 58 percent from the field ...The Notre Dame basketball banquet is set for March 12, and tickets are $25...Fredrick had hit a three-pointer in 16 straight games until having the streak snapped against Georgia Tech. . .Robinson needs just five points to have 1,000 for his career. 

,~~~~~~-----~­
! Wednesday, February 28, 1990
page 14 The Obseove• 
more in the fifth. In the sixth, a of 32 players being freshmen or bases loaded walk to Todd sophomores, means the squad
Baseball 
Takayoshi forced in Randy may go through some growing
• continued from page 16 Vollmer to break a 7-7 tie. pains early in the year as many 
up over the last live innings and While Murphy felt it was disap­adjust to the jump of playing had a good outing, giving up pointing to lose that big of a against much stiffer competi­only one run. Besides Leahy, lead, he insisted that it will only tion. These ballplayers, Murphy also thought Chad make the Irish better as a team Murphy's first two recruiting Hartvigson and Tony Livorsi in the weeks to come. classes, will be the nucleus for pitched well over the weekend. "We're not going to feel sorry the next few years. but with the In Saturday's game, Notre for ourselves." observed help of senior leadership from Dame took a 7-0 lead in the top Murphy. "I won't let it happen captain Ed Lund and Brian of the third on seven hits and in practice this week." Piotrowicz as well as more ex­
four Hainbow errors. The base on balls (17 in 23 perience under their belts, this Rightfielder Eric Danapilis innings) proved to be the down­team should win when it knocked in two runs and Dll fall of the Irish pitchers, espe­counts: in the MCC tournament Edwin Hartwell chipped in an cially the freshmen. and the NCAA playoffs. RBI double. Cory Mee, who led "The young guys didn't have the Irish by going 3 for 7 in the good focus," commented "If I were Hawaii, I wouldn't two games, also contributed to Murphy. "(Dave) Sinnes has got want to play us at the end of the outburst. a lot of ability, he just has to the year," Murphy said. "We're 
"Danapilis, Hartwell, (Dan) get comfortable and get some better than Hawaii. Their Bautch and (Mike) Miadich are more confidence. He's just try­coach, Les Murakami, says going to be an exciting outfield ing too hard. Walania's also we're better than UCLA and for the future," stated Murphy. not pitching up to his capabil­Cal. We don't care about that, 
Hawaii chipped away with ity." though," continues Murphy. two in the fourth and three Notre Dame's youth, with 23 "We can't be satisfied." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held Tuesday and Wednesday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the SUB office. The entry fee is $5. Applications for the Hall of Fame Game are due March 1. 
Women's lacrosse club will practice from 6 to 8 p.m. Wednesday and 5 to 7 p.m. Friday at Angela Athletic Facility. Call 284-5207 for more information. 
NVA needs officials for floor hockey. The pay is $8.5Q per game. Sign up at the NVA office. 
Crew team will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 127 Nieuwland to discuss spring break trip. 
Women's Bookstore signups will be on March 26, not on February 26 as originally reported. Further details will be printed at a later date. 
Cross country ski rentals will be Thursday-Sunday from 
4:30 to 5:30 p.m. at the golf shop as weather permits. 
~c-~~~-----~77~~~~~~~-~~~~ 
undtrip ai,rf(:lres on orcl1west.Airhnes..
~ 

',J10tJUSt agreat pr1ce. fts agreat exper1ence. 
Only for student American Express® Cardmembers. 
Apply for the American Express® Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.) Then get ready to rake off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
American Express and Noithwest Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively certificates and other certificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits 
• CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES ID~\RDS FREE TRAVEL­and personal service you would expect from OF lWO $118 ROUNDTRJP TICKETS-tO many when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Northwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for 
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER
Each certificate is good for a six-month the Card. And start packing!
IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL.
period, and they will arrive within six 
just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­
-weeks after.you receive the Card. Current 
AMEX, and talk to us. ~(!e'll take your
Cardmembers will automatically receive 
application and begin to process it
their $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 
immediately. (Ifyou have your banking 
provided they are still full rime students~ 
information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help Membership Has Its Privileges• 
APPLY TODAY 


1-800-942-jAMEX NORTHWEST AIRLINES 
•[f you a~ already a studem American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your studem ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Studem Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fa~ is for roundtrip tnvel on Nonhwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you caU. Travel must originate by cenificate.expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Nonhwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call 1-800-942-AMEX. ~1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
THE AMERICAN EXPREss• CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER. 
---~----------------~-~­
--------~-------­
Wednesday, February 28, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Wednesday ACROSS 23 Cubbyhole 49 Optic membrane 
4 p.m. Lecture: "The Sacrament of Creation: Toward an 1 Brazilian Indians 26 Choose a new 52 -fixe club member (obsession)
Environmental Theology," Rev. Michael Himes, Associate 4-Clark, U.S. Professor of Theology at ND. Room 121 Law School. Atty. Gen.: 29 Jam pan 53 Early Mexican 
Indian

Sponsored by the Peace Institute. 1967-69 31 Letters on a 55 The Promised 
10 Betty White's chasuble 4 p.m. Lecture: "Myths and Facts about the Budget role in "Golden 32 Whimper Land 
Girls" 57 Have jealous or
Deficit," Robert Eisner, Northwestern University. Hayes­33 Tropical fish 
covetous
Healy Auditorium. Sponsored by the College of Business. 14 Dos Passos 35 What Stephen 
feelingstrilogy 
King evokes 
61 Locale15 Practical, as a

4:20 p.m. Lecture: "The lmpeger Quantum Hall Effect for 37 Phrase from 
ga·dget 62 Dermal
Non-Specialists," Prof. Donald Yennie, ND Physics. Room "Keep the Home 
decoration16 Place for your 
118 Nieuwland Science. Sponsored by Dept. of Physics. Fires Burning" 
dough 63 Corp. boss 
40 African antelope 

17 Very pale 64 Attire 
41 Ingredients for 

20 Two Gentle-65 Solar-system
rickeys

CAMPUS 
men's milieu model 
42 Rip of the films 

21 Prefix with lace 66 White-tailed
6:30-8:30 p.m. University Counseling Center workshop, or lock 43 Lemon-meringue predator"Career/Major Decision Making." Room 300 University dessert
22 Old Testament Counseling Center. character: Gen. 44 Celery unit 14:13 48-Lanka 
DOWN 
7 p.m. IHSAA basketball sectionals. J.A.C.C. Arena. 
jellies 7:30p.m. Bengal Bouts semi-finals. J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Early ascetic 3 Was most irate 
8:10 p.m. Theatre: "The Importance of Being Earnest" 
4 Bankrupt by Oscar Wilde. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Dept. of 
11 Execute a coup 30 Little Dickens 46 Person taking off 
5 "Hitch your 
Communication and Theatre. wagon to-": 12 Bishop's heroine 47 Gambier, Ohio, Emerson authority 32 Unsullied campus 
34 Dam syst. 49 Haggard classic chaser 35 Play by e. e. 50 "Were it my­6 Ginnie or Sallie 13 Tolkien creature 
MElliUS 18 Kind of ode cummings fight ...": Shak.
7 Famed 19 Rdwys. 

suffragette's 36 First numbers 51 Thespian monogram 24 Emerald Isle, to 37 Love, in Lugo 54 Yemeni, e.g. a Gael
8 Dinsmore, Janis 38 Spaniel type 56 Sailor's greeting 
Notre IOame 
25 Brown or

and DeWolfe 39 Reclining one 57 Diamond base 
Baked Cod Sesame McCarthy
9 Brings forth a 40"-adeal!" 58 Feminists' goal 
Cheese Ravioli 
lamb 27 Easy as falling 43 Flat; level 59 H20
Tuna Muffin w/Cheese off­
10 Architect Mies 45 "Ten Cents so Suffix with 
Fettucini Alfredo 
vander-28 Part of r.p.m. -," 1930 song Jersey 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


~ . ~ 
~ S h L·t F t / · ~
I ~ op ·,. • es. I HypnotiSt I ~ W.P. Kmsella / ..His name is KOLISCH!! I 
~ Author of Shoeless Joe 1 . ~ 
~ l'b A d / Tickets on sale today..11 1
8.30
1 · J rary u · 1 Info. Desk, 2nd Floor Lafortun~ ~ I J1Ar..elf 1 $2 '1 uCJ r I 
~ ~ 
~ Last Day to Sign up for Bookstore Basketball ! 
~ ~ 
~ 5-?om SUB office ~ 
~H///AV'AV'//.UU///AV'/.M~/HA'.JW/AV'///H/H'/////H/AV'//H/H//HH//HAV'/H/AV'H/HH//H/.UU//H//AV'H/H/H/HAV'HHAV'H//A¥HH/H/H'/HH//H//HHH//A¥AV'H.UU..4 

r------.------~----------------------------------------~--------------------------·------------------------------~--------------------~­
Sports
page 16 
ND baseball squad to travel soLith 
Team continues tough road schedule in Texas rematch 
By MIKE KAMRADT The Irish definitely have their defeating Notre Dame 6-0 and Sports Writer work cut out for them, espe­12-7. Despite the results, much cially against Texas, the run­good did come from the ven­
It's too bad college athletes ner-up in the College World ture. can't accumulate frequent flyer Series last year. The Longhorns "Overall it was a good trip," mileage. will want to avenge last year's explained Murphy. "We faced 
If they could, Irish baseball loss at the hands of Notre an extraordinary amount of players would have no trouble Dame. In that game, the Irish adversity with bad weather. the meeting the requirements this jumped out to a 5-0 lead over long trip and two capacity year. After traveling some their third-ranked hosts, crowds. It's going to help us 
4.000 odd miles to Honolulu thanks to the heavy hitting of positively down the road." and back to take on the Frank Jacobs and Dan Peltier. In the first game the University of Hawaii last week­Tony Livorsi pitched the middle Rainbows held Notre Dame to end. the Irish will journey to innings and picked up the win one hit in their 6-0 win, but 
Austin, Texas this weekend to for Notre Dame. Texas closed that's not to to say the Irish face the University of Texas to 6-5 in the sixth. but the Irish didn't swing the bat well. Longhorns, one of the elite quickly pulled away at 9-5. "We hit the ball as well teams in college baseball. After Tensions mounted again in the Friday as we did Saturday," this formidable task, the Irish later innings as Texas gained commented Murphy. "Joe 
will take on one of the top to 11-9. With the more than Binkiewicz hit three rockets NAJA squads in the country in 4,000 fans whooping it up, right at people. St. Mary's, a team that blanked doser Mike Coffey held off the "Their pitcher was pretty the Irish 5-0 last season. Notre Longhorns and preserved one darn good, too," Murphy con­
The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Dame will conclude the trip of the biggest wins in the his­tinued. "That was our first test 
The Notre Dame baseball team will face three tough opponents as mey
with a matchup against Trinity. tory of Notre Dame Baseball. against that type of pitching 
travel to warmer climates for a second straight weekend. 
"Texas has one of the top In the upcoming games, the and we're going to have to hit three programs in the country. Irish will certainly have to play against it." them earned, on nine hits. threw too many 1-2 strikes." " said Irish head coach Pat better than they did this past Brian Piotrowicz started the "Petro threw strikes," Freshman Pat Leahy mopped Murphy, "and St. Mary's is bet­weekend. The Hawaii Rainbows game for Irish. In four innings, Murphy said of the senior, who 
see BASEBALU page 14
ter than Hawaii." proved to be unfriendly hosts, he gave up five runs, four of only gave up one walk, "but he 
Irish NCAA invite at stake tonight 
After last weHk's games, Notre Dame must beat Dayton 
By GREG GUFFEY where the Flyers have won the 14-10 Irish that will deter­Assistant Sports Editor their last five games. Notre mine if they fflCI~ive an invita­Dame has struggled on the tion to the 64-team NCAA DAYTON -Must-win and the road this year, dropping 8 of Tournament. Missouri comes Notre Dame men's basketball 13 contests. to the JACC Saturday, and team are becoming much too "Playing Dayton the second Kentucky visits Monday before synonymous. time will offer a challenge," Notre Dame ends the season 
The Irish face another of Notre Dame coach Digger next Saturday at DePaul. those situations tonight at Phelps said. "They play well The Irish could have put Dayton (7:30 p.m., WNDU-TV) and have a lot of confidence at themselves in a great position in a rematch of Notre Dame's home. Every time we go down had they maintained big leads 97-79 Jan. 30 victory over the there it's a close basketball last week against DePaul and Flyers in the Joyce ACC. game, and I don't think this Georgia Tech. They lost an 18­
But that score could be mis-one will be any different." leading going into the matchup The Dayton game will begin a 
see DAYTON I page 13
at University of Davton Arena. crucial four-game stretch for 
"Pit bull" E:llery plays double role off bench 
By SCOTI BRUTOCAO other things, it's good that he Sports Writer thinks of me being vicious and stuff like that. But I could live 
In 1986, basketball coach 
without the pit bull." Digger Phelps traveled down to Canine or no, Ellery is a re­Springfield, Ky., and recruited serve whom Phelps can use ei­a pit bull. ther at the power forward or 
This pit bull, also known as guard position. His role pri­Kevin Ellery, averaged 29.6 marily is to give the team life points per game at his high during slow periods. He has school during his senior year played in 20 games as a re­and was named Kentucky UPI serve, seeing limited time and player of the year. But why the averaging 3. 7 points and 2.4 pit bull? rebounds per game.
Kevin Ellery

"Because of his body," says "I see my role as a boost," Phelps. "He's strong, aggres­might not sit well with Ellery, says Ellery. "To rebound, to sive, built solid at 6-5, and but the spirit of the analogy is score when I need to, and just that's how he plays-llike a pit still a compliment. to add positives to the team." bull. It's characteristic of his "I don't really like being
. The Observer I Steve Moskop Joe Frednck and the rest of the Irish team will face the Dayton Flyers game." characterized as an animal," see ELLERY I page 12 tonight at 7:30 in Dayton. WNDU will show the game. References to runty pooches says Ellery, "but as far as the 

Women's swim team ends sec1son with biggest victory
By JANICE ARCHER points to the Mountaineers' 100 butterfly had similar re-stepped up a notch," said "It was certainly a big Sports Writer 612.5. West Virginia has suits, and four swimmers Welsh. "The women's team honor," said Welsh. "It was 
won the championship two placed in the top nine in the has gotten stronger, more also a recognition of the 
out of the three years that 200 backstroke. confident, and more unified women's enormous im-
The Notre Dame women's the Easterns have been held. The three victories went to as a team." provement from one season swimming team ended their "The key to our success NCAA qualifiers Becky Wood Testament to the team's to the next, and a sign that season in an impressive fash­was team balance and and Tanya Williams. Wood unification and aggressive-the administrative capacity ion last weekend by captur­depth," Welsh said. took the 100 breaststroke ness is their performance on is working well across the ing the title at the 1990 "Everyone played an impor-with a time of 1:07.27, and Friday. The Irish were be-season." EastPrn Intercollegiate tant part." the 200 breaststroke in hind at the end of the day on Welsh gave credit to assis-Swimming and Diving Every swimmer of the 19-2:24.70. In an Eastern Thursday, but all sixteen of tant coach Mike Roberts, Championships in Baltimore, member squad scored in the record time, Williams swam Friday's swimmers scored who as a third year law stu-Md. meet, but the championship the 400 individual medley in and the two divers both dent. is in his last year of 
"Our transformation was was not won on first place 4:26.43. Susan Bohdan set a qualified for the top eight. assistant coaching. Roberts remarkable," said Irish head victories. Out of the 20 new university record in the "We responded as a team," was responsible for the coach Tim Welsh. In last events raced over three days, 500 freestyle, and the relay Welsh said. "The team game plans of the seasons year's competition, the the Irish only won three. team also set a new Irish trusted itself and took risks meets, of analyzing the pos­squad placed fifth out of a Instead, the points were record in the 800 free. sibilities and alternatives ten-team field. garnered by having more fin-"The Easterns had a much Along with the team cham-that might arise during 
Notre Dame faced strong ishers in higher spots. In the tougher field than the MCC's, pionship, another highlight competition. competition in the meet from 100 backstroke, five Irish and was also tougher than of the meet came when "He had a major impact on West Virginia, but edged swimmers scored, and four the National Catholic Coach Welsh won the Coach them out by scoring 670 placed in the top eight. The Championships, so everyone of the Year honors. see SWIM I paqe 11 



