
VOL. XXIII NO. 31 MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Vigils held in protest of dedication of new ROTC building 
By PATRICK HEALY The members of the vigil were News Writer not a formal organization, but 
called themselves an "ad hoc" 
group. 
Two vigils were held this Despite the intentions of weekend to protest a mass held Caponigro and Twohy. some for the dedication of the new members of the group stated Pasquerilla Center and to gar­anti-ROTC opinions, and ner support for three proposals Caponigro said he was concerning the Notre Dame Re­"concerned people in ROTC felt serve Officers' Training (ROTC) it [the vigil] was an attack program. against them." 
The vigils were held on Friday Caponigro said the vigil outside of Sacred Heart Church wasn't intended to attack the during the mass and on Satur­morality of the ROTC students, day outside of the Pasquerilla and doesn't "think they're building. during the blessing of (ROTC students) unethical as the building. people." 
The proposals include a A midshipman who observed counselor for ROTC students, a the vigil stated that the demon­mandatory class in war law strators "don't know what goes and ethics for these students, on in ROTC." His colleague said and alternate scholarships for the "atmosphere of the Univer­students needing financial aid sity is moralistic" and that offi­but whose morals are in con­cers from Notre Dame will have flict with ROTC, said senior sound morals and a religious Mary Sue Twohy, co-leader of background. He noted that the demonstrations. many ROTC students take a 
Jay Caponigro. another co­morals class and also must 
leader, said he was "not com­take the required philosophy 
fortable with a mass for the and theology classes. 
dedication of a building for 
non:... but emphasized that 
see ROTC I page 4 
th•~ vigil was "not-anti ROTC". 
Women are leaving Church due to low status, sister says 
women as "defective men." She
By DAVID ZIRINGER 
said that biased attitudes yet
News Writer 
persist, being reflected even in 
current statements by Pope 
Women are "perpetual mi­John Paul II. nors" in the Catholic Church, A recent bishops' letter on said Sister Regina Coli in her women further reinforced bi­lecture Friday. ased doctoral ideology. The 
Coli. Director of Field Educa­letter maintained the idea that tion at Notre Dame. cited sur­different roles are more appro­veys showing that young, edu­priate for each sex, said Coli. cated women are leaving the Coli said that insensitivity to­church more than any other wards women is also reflected group. in the church's traditional im­
Historical church policy. the age of God as a male. She said church image of God as a male, offering but one image of God and a disregard for female is "heretical," and that every church contributions are image we present of God (such responsible for the "serious" as a female image) offers a dif­exodus. according to Coli. ferent view of God. 
Attitudes in church doctrine Women's religious contribu­are founded on 15th to 17th tions are not respected, Coil century understandings. Coli 
see CHURCH I page 4
said, some of which perceived 


. . . The Observer/David Lee People be~r s1gns of prot~st at the ded1cat1on of the new ROTC building on Friday. Students and others gather outs1de of Pasquenlla Center. 
Drug czar Bennett to give lecture at ND; subject: care of children 
Special to The Observer universities until 1981 when tiona! Strategy was released 
he was selected by President along with a $10.6 billion 
William Bennett, director Ronald Reagan to head the budget, detailing activities of 
of the Office of National National Endowment for the every federal anti-drug pro-
Drug Control Policy and Humanities, where he served gram and agency. Bennett 
former U.S. Secretary of Ed-until being named in 1985 was appointed by President 
ucation, will speak Oct. 17 at Secretary of Education. Ben-George Bush to direct the 
Notre Dame. nett stepped down from his Office of National Drug Con-
His lecture, "Modernity cabinet post in 1988. trol Policy, a position he as-and the Care of our Chil-In September, 1989 Presi-sumed in March. dren," will be at 7:30 pm in dent Bush released his Na-Since the Bush adminis­the Hesburgh Library audi-tiona! Drug Control Strat-tration took office, the fed­torium. It is free and open to egy. The report, prepared by era! government has in-the public. Bennett, resulted from six creased spending to fight 
A native of Brooklyn, N.Y., months of discussion with drugs some 70 percent -the Bennett holds a bachelor's government leaders. treat-largest percentage increase degree in philosophy from ment professionals, educa-of any major program in the Williams College, a tors, drug policy experts. federal government. doctorate in political law enforcement officials Last February Bennett ac-philosophy from the and hundreds of American companied President Bush to University of Texas, and a citizens involved in fighting Cartegena, Colombia to par-law degree from Harvard. drugs. ticipate in the first Andean He taught at a number of In January, a second Na-drug summit. 
~£2N§!,l{~9 nt q!t~~~~d<its.Qff~f~[l]J.?.Y~ncem
Saint Mary's Editor identification and credit cards over the apathy displayed by missing. the first officer and said that 
A Notre Dame student was 
The attacker was described "had the first officer filed a re-attacked at approximately 1:30 by the victim as a black man in port, all cars in the area. in­
a.m. Saturday on Ivy Road, his mid-twenties. He was wear-eluding Notre Dame Security, South Bend. ing a red sweatshirt with white would have been notified. It 
The victim was walking alone stripes on the sleeve. seems this would have improved on Ivy Road between Vaness The victim walked back to the chances of apprehending Street and Edison Road, near Turtle Creek Apartments where him for me to identify." 
Turtle Creek Apartments. he phoned St. Joseph County "When I first noticed my as­Police. The victim claims the re­The parents of the victim sailant he was about twenty sponding officer was unwilling have filed a formal complaint feet behind me but I did not to file a report or accept the against the police department. think anything of it" said the pipe as evidence. Labis said he is investigating victim. "The next thing I knew I the report and looking into the was struck on the head twice The victim further claims that actions of both the officer who 
with a metal pipe." although he suffered injury to took the call and the one who 
After striking the student, the top of his head, the officer responded to the call. "If I the suspect allegedly told the was unwilling to transport him wasn't concerned about this victim, "Give me your wallet." A to the hospital or summon an matter, I wouldn't have spent struggle brought both men to ambulance. hours with the victim's parents the ground at which time the The victim's father made a as well as hours investigating 
assailant dropped the pipe. second call to Police and later the incident." 
The victim said he was able Sgt. Greg Labis, the supervisor to grab hold of the pipe and on duty that evening, inter­Chuck Hurley, assistant di­strike his attacker across the viewed the victim at St. rector of Notre Dame Security, face once. The suspect al­Joseph's Hospital. There the verified that Security received legedly ripped the victim's student received sixteen report of the incident early pocket off his shorts, taking stitches on the top right of his the student's wallet. head. 
see ASSAULT I page 4 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
f 
t 
page 2 
I 
I 
I t 
r 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Team needs support even after loss 

Well fans, how do we deal with this tragedy? Being a ju­nior, this is only the second time I've wo­ken up on Sunday knowing the Irish football team had lost 


the previous day. Mike Kamradt 
The first was bad because it was Miami. Sports COpy Editor But we were on Thanksgiving Break at the time and I had Mom to make me cookies and console me. This is different though: It's our first home loss in five seasons and Mom is nowhere to be found. 
Since we don't lose too often, it was inter­esting to see some people's reaction to the loss. I myself did not take it too well. I learned that the human body is a delicate thing and doesn't do too well in confronta­tions with inanimate objects such as walls. I'm also out a clock radio and a light bulb­estimated retail value $19.95. At least now I have an excuse for waking up late for class. 
Some "brilliant" people deduced that we stink. Sure we should never have lost to Stanford. We know it and the team knows it. But getting down on the team in that way isn't the way to go. These same people were proclaiming our greatness two years ago when we won the championship. A fair­weather fan isn't a true fan. 
It's also not really fair to blame Ricky Watters. Sure, his mistakes were a big fac­tor in the loss. But he's also done a lot to win games for Irish. Keep in mind, too, that the defense didn't have a great game and the offense didn't put up a whole lot of points against a so-so defense made up of nine sophomores. 
Some said it was about time we lost. We 

got lucky the last two weeks and it's about 
time the luck ran out. Sorry, I can't buy that 
logic either. Anyone who has ever played 
competitive sports feels you should win ev­
ery time out. 
You don't say, "Gee, we really have won a 
lot, it's about time we lost." When you get 
to be as good as our team is, you're disap­
pointed any time you lose. That's especially 
true in football where you have to wait an 
entire week for a chance at redemption. 
The real fact of the the matter is the loss 
wasn't a tragedy at all. We still have seven 
regular season games left, including meet­
ings with Top Ten Miami and Tennessee. 
Four of the Top Ten teams already have one 
loss and with the way this college football 
season is going, a few more are bound to be 
tagged with a defeat. 
Keep in mind that Miami won the cham­
pionship last year despite a mid-season loss 
to Florida State. If we don't win it, it won't 
be because of this loss. We'll have to lose 
again to be out of the race. So take heart 
those of you who lamented that the season's 
over-it's not. The Irish still control their 
own destiny and the Irish will bounce back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  
News  Production  Business  
Peter Loftus  Michelle Wood  Jay Colucci  
Christine Stephan  Beth Peterson  
Rene Ferran  Lisa Eaton  Ad  Design  
Lisa Gunsorek  
Accent  VIewpoint  Anita Covelli  
Jennifer Guerin  Kathy Welsh  Tony Paganelli  
DavidCerto  Joy Harris  
Sports  Molly Flecker  
Ken Tysiac  Circulation  
Systems  Bill O'Roukrke  
Scoreboard  Amalia Meier  Matt Novak  
Chris Cooney  Fritz Valsaint  
Rene Ferran  


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
COLD Pressure 
® © 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Student Senate will be held tonight at 6:00 pm in Misa en Espanol-Bishop Placido Rodriquez of the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor of LaFortune. All are Chicago will say a Spanish Mass today at 6:00 pm in the welcome. Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. Reception will immediately follow. 
WORLD 

Two of the seven journalists being held hostage by the Medellin cocaine cartel in Bogota, Colombia sent their family members a tape-recorded message praying for a quick resolution to the crisis, local news media reported Sunday.lt was the first word from any of the victims since they disappeared in August and September. "We hope that this will end well and that we will be able to be with you soon," Diana Turbay de Uribe said in a message sent to her father. former President Julio Cesar Turbay. He was president for the Liberal Party from 1978 to 1982.The administration of President Cesar Gaviria says the Medellin cartel is holding all seven journalists. 
NATIONAL 
Discovery's astronauts, their primary job behind them, started a small fire aboard the shuttle Sun­day in Cape Canaveral, Fla. as part of an experiment to study the spread of flames in space. The solar probe Ulysses, meanwhUe, sped safely toward Jupiter at a record-setting 34,130 mph. Discovery's five-man crew started the satellite on its roundabout journey of 1.86 bil­lion miles shortly after liftoff Saturday. The first test fire aboard a shuttle burned about 70 seconds within a sealed aluminum container, as cameras recorded the event. Shuttle safety managers wanted to observe how fire acts 
in the absence of Earth's gravity. 
INDIANA 
A three-alarm fire at an office building in downtown Fort Wayne o burned for three hours, gutting two of the Gaskins' Building's three floors. Several firefighters were injured fighting the blaze, said District Fire Chief Thomas Tucker. City police arrested James Leroy Walton, 20, on a felony arson charge, said Capt. Thomas Broxon of the Fort Wayne Fire Depart­ment. Walton was arrested in 1988 on a separate arson charge, according to the Fort Wayne Jour­nal Gazette. 
Runoff elections will be held in all 10 bargaining units after two unions failed to win a majority in the election to decide union representation for state government employees, officials said Sunday in Indianapolis. In seven bargaining units, the runoffs will be between the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and the Unity team, a coalition of the United Auto Workers, American Federation of Teachers and the Indiana State Employees Association. 
-
Monday, October 8, 1990
The Observer


---------------·-· 
WARM STATIONARY 
~~~ ~ m 

--·-­
WEATHER 
60 
Yesterday's high: 64 
Yesterday's low: 59 
Nation's high: 99 
(Laredo, Texas) 
Nation's low: 6 
(Wisdom, Mont.) 
Forecast: Cool today with rain likely. High around 60. Likelihood of rain 60 per­cent. Thundershowers possible tonight and Tuesday. Heavy rain possible. Cool with lows near 50 and highs around 
60. Likelihood of rain 80 percent both tonight and Tuesday. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
90 

0 0 X 
FLURRIES SNOW 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 171.33 • 0.53 S&P Composite + 312.69 1.29 Dow Jones Industrials 2,510.64 • 6.19 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.20 to $398.1 0/oz. 
Silver+ 0.2¢ to $4.728/oz. 
The populist Freedom Party, capitalizing on widespread popular discontent over bureaucracy and corruption, made strong gains in parliamentary elections Sunday in Vienna, Austria. The governing Socialists slightly increased their representation and offered to form a new coalition government with the conservative People's Party, which lost ground in the balloting. The So­cialists made it clear throughout the election campaign they would not form a coalition with the Freedom Party, which they say is too far right. 
A woman threw herself over her 2-year-old granddaughter just as a 1-ton wheat planter rolled over them, and each somehow survived the twisting blades. Joan Sullivan, 54, of Niles, was hospitalized for treatment of broken bones and bruises. Young Sara escaped Fri­day's accident with just a few scrapes. The ac~ident oc­curred while Sara's· grandfather, James Sullivan, was planting wheat on the 800-acre family farm in Niles, about 20 miles east of Salina, Kan. 
ALMANAC 
On October 8: 
eln 1934: Bruno Hauptmann was indicted for murder in the death of the infant son of Charles Undbergh. 
eln 1945: President Truman an­nounced that the secret of the atomic bomb would be shared only with Britain and Canada. 
eln 1956: Don Larsen pitched the only perfect game ever in a World Series as the New York Yankees beat the Brooklyn Dodgers, 2-0. 
eln 1970: Exiled Soviet author Alexander Solzhenitsyn was awarded the Nobel Prize for literatue. 
eTen years ago: The Soviet Union and Syria signed a 20-year co­operation treaty in Moscow. 

Monday, October 8, 1990 
The Observer page 3 
ND teacher elected to head national group 
By JOE GODIN 
News Writer 
Louis Berzai, currently a computer applications teacher at Notre Dame, culminated over 23 years of work in data processing by being elected the Association President of the Data Processing Management Association (DPMA) for 1991. 
Berzai, an adjunct instructor in computer applications, was elected president on Sunday, September 30, at the annual Data Processing Management conference, which was held in San Diego. 
Berzai has a long list of cre­dentials. He has been a mem­ber of the Michiana chapter of
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

the DPMA for 23 years. In
Catholicism and feminism 
1980, he started a five-year 
Sister Regina Coli gives lecture" A Catholic Feminist: An Oxymoron?" at the Center for Social Concerns 
term as President of the Michi­
on Friday.(Story, Pg. 1) 
ana chapter as well as Associa­tion Director. He served in the regional association for six years including two years as
Students, staff, faculty discuss sexism, 
president, in 1985 and 1986. 
Throughout 1987 and 1988 he 
was the Association Vice Presi­

the law, and individuality at open forum 


By AMY MARK 
News Writer 
An open forum, Friday gave students and other concerned members of the Notre Dame community a chance to discuss sexism, the law, restitution, and individuality. 
Teresa Phelps, associate profesor of Law, was scheduled to give a lecture titled "Sexism and the Law," but was unable to attend. The lecture was to be thn conclusion of a week-long series of "Fireside Chats," given by various speakers as part of the Multicultural Fall Festival. 
In place of the lecture, stu­dents, faculty and staff spent an hour participating in an open discussion about topics of concern. 
One senior spoke about the Victim/Offender Reconciliation program, which seeks restitu­tion as an alternative to send­ing offenders directly "through the system." The open forum also addressed the matter of subjectivity versus objectivity, and the individuality of each person versus society, under 
the law. 
Due to the unique structure of the discussion, most points were inconclusive and unsolved, but one participant summed up his views with one thought: "By working together... we'll find a workable solution, in terms of the society." Stefanie Dziedzic, a senior living with others stu­dents in an area halfway house, stressed the obligation of per­sonal responsibility and the ne­cessity of changing the "system" to adjust to an ever­changing society. 
dent for the membership area. 1989 saw Berzai as the Associ­ation Secretaryffreasurer. In 1990 he served a one-year term as Association Executive Vice President. 
The term of his presidency is one year. His duties concern the general governing of the association. "I help guide the association and follow through with my goals for the associa­tion," Berzai said. "I am also concerned with the goals of the body because the body is the most important part of the or­ganization. The goals of the body are just as important as 
my goals because they make up the organization." Berzai was enthusiastic about his election. "In 1980, I decided 

Last yearwe madeover14,000students 
that I wanted to become the president of the association.

Wall Streetl}'coons in the... 
Now I have reached my goal." He expressed the desire to in­volve more people in the orga­nization. "I want to spark the chapter. I want to create ex­citement and invite more cor­porate interest. Secondly, I would like to do more research and development for educa­tional purposes." 

e™ Although being president is a great responsibility, he does November 1, 1990 to February 28, 1991 not feel it will affect his work 
Enter this year's competition and you 'II become a Wall Street tycoon, buying and selling stocks with your own SSOO,OOO broker­age account. If you're the best trJder at the end of this national stock market competition, you 'II be cashing a check for a very real S2S,OOO! 
Real Trading 
There is no better way to get hands-on stock market experi­ence. You're on the phone, call­ing your broker on a toll-free AT&T 800 Service line to buy and sell stocks. "Give me SIOO,OOO worth of SARA LEE and another SSO,OOO worth of 
AT&T." Y<m start with a fictitious SSOO,OOO brokerage account. 
Cash Scholarship Awards 
1st. ....................$25,000 2nd .....................10,000 3rd ......................7,500 4th ......................5,000 5th ......................4,000 6th ......................3,000 7th ......................2,500 8th ......................2,000 9th ......................1,500 10th ......................1,000 
Co-sponsored by: 

Win atrip lor you and aguest compliments of the Holiday Inn lucaya Beach Resort In Freeport, Grand Bahama, Bahamas and the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism. 
Build your portfolio from over S,OOO stocks listed on the OTC, New York, and American Stock Exchanges. Brokers will give you up-to-the-second quotes and exe­cute your orders. Monthly state­ments will keep you informed of your fortunes. 
Real Prizes 
Over $200,000 in total prizes will be awarded! This includes cash scholarship awards, trips ~o the Bahamas, and hundreds of monthly prizes from Cham­pion USA. More than 1,000 win­
ners in all. You can win a cash 
The Bahamas 

~l--~-: .......
Ministry of Tourism at Notre Dame. "ND is my number one responsibility," hescholarship award of $25,000. 


said.

Imagine cashing that check! Top 
Louis Berzal 

Berzai has been involved with data processing since he grad­uated from college. He worked for a data center for 20 years before coming to Notre Dame. "Mter working at the data cen­ter for that long I just got tired of it. I needed something more," he said of his former job. He came to Notre Dame in 1984 to teach computer appli­cations. He loves his job as well as his students. 
"I just love working with the 

students here. I think it's just 
class. To me, it seems like 
there is a higher quality of stu­
dent herfl," Berzai said of his 
students. 
The DPMA has a membership 

of nearly 40,000 people. It is 
the largest organization which 
represents computer applica­
tions professionals in the 
world. DPMA dedicates itself 
to the advancement of com­
puter applications in many 
fields, such as business, 
science, and government. 
On the college level, there are 

483 student chapters with 
about 10,000 members. Notre 
Dame has its own chapter with 
a membership of about 20 peo­
ple. Berzai is a faculty advisor 
for the student chapter here, 
which is called the Computer 
Applications Honor Society. 
According to Berzai, the stu­
dent chapter is designed to 
"Give students ideas of different 
companies around and also 
provide interesting topics for 
study." 
The DPMA has 285 chapters around the country. Besides the chapters, there are several hundred individual member­ships around the world. The benefits of this association in­clude professional recognition in the industry, training for leadership positions, commu­nity service through chapter sponsorships, improved educa­tion, and management and t~chnical information 
winners receive weekly national recognition from USA TODAY. You can follow the current standings of the AT&T Colle­giate Investment Challenge 
every Monday during the competition in the "MONEY" section of USA TODAY. 
Enter and :Win 
The Third Annual AT&T Collegiate Investment Chal­lenge begins the morning of November 1, 1990 and ends on February 28, 1991. Your trading can lead to fame, a great Bahamas tan, and a $25,000 fortune. Call now to enter or to get your free brochure. 
Registration deadline: October 27, 1990. 
Entry fee only 
$49.95 

e It bring<; out the bestin all of us.· 
United way 



CLUB COLUMN 
CLUB LEADERS: 
PLACE YOUR AD HERE! That's right! The Club Coordination Council sponsors this column to appear weekly in The Observer. To advertise your club's meetings/events and GUARANTEE that they get printed, just drop off your CLUB COLUMN entry to the Club Room (Rm. 207 in LaFortune) by Thursday at 5:00 and the ad will appear the following Monday. 
In addition, the Club Room is open Sunday through Thursday from 3:00 to 8:00 p.m. All clubs have mailboxes there as well as access to our phones and computer! Come check us outll 
Any questions? Contact Jeff Stark at x3376 or call the Club room at x2086. 
MONDAY· Club Council will meet at 7:00 in the Club Room. All members should attend. 
Call Today 

A service of The Observer and the Club Coc>rdination Council. 
1800 545-1990Ext. 33 
The AT&TCollegiate Investment Challenge is produced and managed by Wall Street Games, Inc., 40 Grove Street, Wellesley, MA 02181. 
~-­
page 4 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 
I was attended by about thirty, a 
I group which was notably multi­generational and culturally di­

ROTC 

verse. The group of students,
continued from page 1 

faculty, and staff handed out Although most ROTC students fliers and held signs. said they respected the vigil, Signs stated "There should be 
some felt their presence at other financial options" and mass was wrong. ROTC student "Give peace a chance." One 
Gary Clark thought they sign, as well as the fliers, 
"should not protest during stated "We cannot simultane­
mass." Another, Dennis Her­ously prevent and prepare for 
genrether said "the mass was war," a quote by Albert Ein­
part of a celebration thanking stein. 
the Pasquerillas" for their do­During a prayer vigil, the 
nation to construct the build­group sang, gave readings 
ing, and that the protest from the Bible and Martin 
"made it look like Notre Dame Luther King, and shared reflec­didn't appreciate it." tions with one another. One The demonstration on Friday student offered, "we are not 
here to antagonize, attack, or hurt, but because God is a God of love." Another said "If any­one thinks what we're doing is radical, Jesus was the biggest radical of all." 
One student stated "we are here to question ROTC on cam­pus" and said in our country "we practice war, we don't practice peace." Another participant, Chris Kozoll, said "ROTC at Notre Dame is a contradication in terms." 
One notable member of the vigil was Adele O'Shaugnessy, who is the daughter-in-law of I. 
A. O'Shaugnessy, a Notre Dame donor. She said that she is op­posed to ROTC at Notre Dame, and discussed this with Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, in a private meeting last year. According to O'Shaugnessy, Hesburgh justi­fied ND's program saying America needs Catholic leaders in the military. 
The vigil on Saturday was held outside of the Pasquerilla building during the dedication. Approximately two dozen demonstrators attended, and lasted for about twenty min­utes. Like Friday, leaflets were handed out, and a short prayer service was held. 
Caponigro said he was "pleased" with the two demon­strations. Twohy said she thought they were "well done" and were a good start in achieving their objectives. She said the next step should be a "peaceful, goodhearted dia­logue" between the people at the protest and ROTC students. 
The $5 million, Pasquerilla Center is the gift of Notre Dame trustee Frank Pas­querilla of Johnstown, Pa. It houses Notre Dames Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC de­tachments, which include 681 students. At 50,000 square­feet, it is the nati<m's largest privately financed ROTC center. The University has more ROTC scholarships in effect than any other educational institution. 

Church 
continued from page 1 
said, and that women are treated like "second class citi­zens in our church." She stated that women are rarely involved in Church decisions affecting them, and that they are not even directly addressed by Church leaders about such de­cisions. 
Coli said she stays in the Church because she "no longer expects the church to be per­
fect." However, she also has hope for the women who are committed to the church and its progress, despite recognizing the Church's "victimization" of them. 
Furthermore, she feels she can "move the church best by staying with it." 
Pasquerilla receives 
0.0.0. award 
Special to The Observer 
Frank Pasquerilla, chairman 
of the board and chief executive 
officer of Crown American Cor­
poration, Johnstown, Pa., has 
received the second-highest 
civilian award from the De­
partment of Defense. 
The award for outstanding 
public service recognizes Pas­
querilla's $5-million gift to 
build the nation's largest pri­
vately financed Reserve Offi­
cers' Training Corps building at 
the University of Notre Dame. 
The silver medal and rosette 
were presented at a dedication 
dinner October 5 on campus by 
Army Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, 
director of operations for the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
"Mr. Pasquerilla's patriotic support, coupled with the Uni­versity's extensive involvement, underscores the highest level of commitment to educating value-oriented men and women as future leaders in the armed services," the citation stated. There are 681 students-almost 10 percent of the undergradu­ate student body-enrolled in all three armed services' ROTC programs at Notre Dame. 
The Pasquerilla family and friends, along with military dignitaries and University offi­cials and trustees, were in­volved in dedication ceremonies for the Pasquerilla Center Octo­ber 5 and 6 at Notre Dame. Pasquerilla is a trustee of the University. 
Correction 
In Friday's Observer story about the "U" college news­paper the subscription price was incorrectly listed as $15,000 per year. The fee, which was previously cov­ered by the student activity fee, is actually $1,500 per year. 

Assault Striking teachers cpnsider settlement 
continued from page 1 NEW ORLEANS (AP} ­Thousands of public school 
Saturday morning. Hurley, a teachers Sunday night argued rormer South Bend Police chief, over a tentative agreement that commented that the alleged ac­would end a three-week strike. tions of the responding officer Nat LaCour, president of the were not in line with formal United Teachers of New Or­police procedure and that the leans, had said he would rec­incident merits investigation. ommend the city's 4,400 teach­
ers approve the proposed 
Anyone who sees a man that three-year contract and return fits the above description or to class Monday. has any information about the "We obviously didn't get all incident should call Notre that we wanted, but it's enough Dame Security or St. Joseph's to recommend a settlement," County Police, said Labis. LaCour said Saturday night 
after he and Frank Fudesco, 
To promote abetter under­standin& o.f the psycho-social, religious, cultural, philosophical, and historical aspects of homosexuality ancflesbian and gay people. 
This Lecture Series is sponsored by the Departments of Amencan Studies, Anthropology, Art, Art History, and Design, Communication and Theatre, English, Government, History, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Theology, 
and 

Center for Social Concerns, Student Government, Gender Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
chief negotiator for the Orleans Parish School Board, agreed on the proposal. 
LaCour and School Board President Carl Robinson had planned a joint news conference Sunday night after a meeting called to let union members vote on the agreement. 
But when the time for their announcement passed with no ratification vote, Robinson held his own news conference to urge teachers to return to work. He disclosed that the proposal called for a 3 percent pay raise for teachers this school year, no raise the following year and a 4 percent raise the third year. 
On Saturday, LaCour de­scribed the contract as a win­win proposal. Fudesco said it will require cutbacks, but they won't be as severe as officials had feared. 
The school board said earlier that it might have to cut all athletic programs and lay off 400 people, including social workers and school nurses, to meet the union's demands. 

A Lecture Series on 
------~-----------~------­
Monday, October a, 1990 The Observer page 5 

ram·-bod·lan ro~l~ nl~n
'-# I I ""..,...,...~ flllloa I 


attack with Chinese tanks 
SIEM REAP PROVINCE, Cam­bodia (AP) -Bolstered by their first shipments of Chinese tanks, Khmer Rouge guerrillas are preparing a major attack to seize an area considered Cambodia's most important cultural and historic region. 
After making major gains in rural areas in the past year, the Khmer Rouge now are shifting to conventional military tactics to seize cities and key economic regions, Western military ana­lysts say. 
The rebels recently took the key government artillery base
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
at Sre Noi, and now say they are preparing to attack Bantei 
Quaners can help 
Student summons others to participate in the annual Quarter Mila for united way. Many helped by ad­
Srei, the last major government 
hering their quarters to the quarter mila of tapa on the south quad. 
position defending the provin­
cial capital of Siem Reap and 
the nearby Angkor Wat tem­
Germany to have important but restrained ples, the symbol of Cambodian civilization. The rebels have massed
role in European politics, says expert 
By SIOBHAN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
While the newly reunified Germany will have a tremen­dous impact on the European economic structure, it is hesi­tant to take the lead in creating a strong political union in Eu­rope, according to Gerd Langguth, head of the Repre­sentation of the European Communities in Bonn. 
"In the long term, the Euro­pean Economic Community (EEC) is the only stable eco­nomic structure in the future," said Langguth, speaking at Washington Hall Friday. Ger­many's "already dominant role in world trade" will help speed up the economic and monetary integration of Europe, but not too much, he added. 
"Germans themselves know that they must be reluctant," said Langguth. The impact of Hitler and World War II have not been forgotten, and Ger-
r 
mans today "fear that Euro­peans may feel that they are too powerful, too dominant. Germans are less influential than they could be." 
"The current structure will not allow the German commu­nity to become a world power," said Langguth. 
However, the Germans will continue to play a vital role in the growth of the EEC. Its im­mediate goal is to form a Euro­pean Central Bank. Later, "with no doubt, the EEC will probably become more politi­cally involved," said Langguth. In the distant future, he believes that the EEC will go so far as to create a communal system of defense. 
"Many people are afraid" of this unity, however, because it could "upset the balance of Eu­rope," according to Langguth. Presently, Germany simply "wants to be treated as an equal partner." 
Today, Germany's political 

WOMEN'S ISSUES & 
victory.

TODAY'S CATHOLIC TTl\.TIVERSITIES 
Thai and Western sources, 
speaking on condition of 
anonymity, said China's secret 
delivery of 24 tanks is the first 
such shipment ever to the guer-

A Lecture by Dr. Ronda Chervin 
Take a TOUR of a 
NUCLEAR POWERED SUBMARINE
8 PM Tuesday October 9 Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Rm 122) 
Norfolk, VA San Diego, CA 
Dr. Chervin received her PhD in Philosophy at Fordham University. She is currently an Associate Professor of Philosophy at St. John's Seminary in Camarillo, California and one of the women' consultants to the US Bishops writing a Pastotal on the concerns of women. 
She is the author of Feminine, Free and Faithful and Woman to Woman: The Joyful. Sorrowful and Glorious Mysteries of 
A Navy representative will be on campus Tuesday, October 9th in the
Being a Woman in the Church and 14 other books. 
Placement Office from 9am to 3pm. For more information, all LT Bennett or L T Griffin: 1-800-553-1147
bW THE 
Sophs. & Jrs. -5.3 GPA or better
\~YEAR OF 
Seniors -5.0. GPA or better 
TECHNICAL, ENGINEERING,




\XDMEN) 
MATH & SCIENCE MAJORS.


rillas. Dozens of the Communist rebels have returned to the jun­gles from China, where they were trained to operate tanks, they said. 
The sources said 12 tanks are at the Khmer Rouge-controlled district capital of Andung Veng, the staging area for the offen­sive. against Siem Reap. The other 12 are near the Khmer Rouge-held town of Pailin in western Battambang province. 
The guerrillas also have re­ceived scores of Chinese jeeps, transport trucks, and heavy weapons. 
The Khmer Rouge has relied on Chinese arms in the nearly 12-year-old war against the Vietnamese-installed govern­ment armed by the Soviet Union. 
Hundreds of thousands of people died from starvation, execution and disease during the Khmer Rouge's fanatical Communist rule from 1"975 until Vietnam invaded in late 1978. 
Areas of the country's north are under the control of former monarch Prince Norodom Si­hanouk, whose guerrillas are allied with the Khmer Rouge and a third rebel group. Si­hanouk has wide support among peasants, and several thousand of his troops move freely through scores of iso­lated rural villages. 
They are welcomed by many villagers fearful of the Khmer Rouge and deeply suspicious of Vietnam's influence over Prime Minister Hun Sen's government in Phnom Penh. 
But Sihanouk commanders say they cannot compete for territory with the Khmer Rouge, who have stockpiles of ammunition to fight for several years if China were to cut them off. 
"The Khmer Rouge have lots of weapons, but few support­ers," said Sihanouk commander Gen. Kien Van, at his jungle headquarters less than 20 miles from Angkor Wat. 
"We have lots of supporters but few weapons. So the Khmer Rouge get stronger and the non-Communists get weaker." 
rulers get together "in confer­ence rooms in Brussels ... using arguments, not armaments," to get their way, according to Langguth. He is "convinced that West Germans have learned their lesson." 
In an attempt to patch up re­lations with the Jewish commu­nity, the government of Ger­many has held seminars, orga­nized discussions and financed trips to Israel in order to raise German cultural awareness. Also, Germany has restrained the number of its representa­tives at worldwide conferences, in order to appear less threat­ening to other nations, accord­ing to Langguth. 
"Today we know that Ger­many can have, and eat, its cake," said Langguth. 
Langguth was a member of the West German Bundestag from 1976 to 1980. He has also had a broad range of pub­lications concerning German youth, education, democracy tanks, heavy guns and troops to attack government defenses in this northwestern province, according to field commanders and Khmer Rouge fighters in­terviewed in the guerrilla zone. 
A recent 10-day, 190-mile trek through guerrilla-held area near Angkor Wat showed the rebels had overrun impor­tant positions and moved freely through villages less than an hour's drive from the Siem Reap provincial capital. 
"We were ordered to attack Bantei Srei this month and then we will attack Siem Reap,"said Bong Thieun, a young Khmer Rouge soldier interviewed at Sre Noi. 
Khmer Rouge bulldozers and chainsaws are carving tank and truck roads through the jungles toward Angkor Wat. 
"What we see happening in Siem Reap is alarming," said a 
Western  military intelligence  
analyst.  "They  are  using  a  
strategy  different  from  any­ 

where else. It looks like a real move to take Siem Reap." 
Analysts said the capture of Siem Reap and Angkor Wat would be a major psychological 
page 6 
S. Korean officials fired after spy scandal 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ­President Roh Tae fired his de­fense minister and the powerful chief of military intelligence last Monday following allega­tions that the government spied on more than 1 ,300 civilians. 
Presidential spokesman Lee Soo-jung said Roh was holding the two officials responsible and said the government would take unspecified reform mea­sures "to meet with circum­stances befitting the new era." 
Charges in the past week of the military surveillance, including spying on leading government and opposition politicians, have eroded government claims that the armed forces are politically neutral and no longer figure in politics. 
Roh moved quickly in an ef­fort to diminish the impact on his government. 
Roh's office said Defense Minister Lee Sang-hoon was replaced by Lee Jong-koo, 57, former army chief of staff. Lt. Gen. Cho Nam-pung was out as commander of the Defense Security Command and Lt. Gen. Koo Chang-hoe was in. 
Lee Jong-koo once headed the Defense Security Command un­der disgraced former President Chun Doo-hwan, now in inter­nal exile. 
Politicians, citizens groups, lawyers and dissidents reacted in outrage last week after army Pvt. Yoon Suk-yang, 24, re­vealed the alleged surveillance of civilians in this nation of 
42.5 million people. 
His political foes demanded that Roh apologize publicly, that the command be dissolved, and that measures be spelled out to prevent further surveil­lance. 
Kim Dae-jung, leader of the Party for Peace and Democracy, said Monday he would go on a hunger strike until the defense command was dissolved. 
"The military's meddling in politics aims at wiping out the democratic forces," he told a news conference. 
Yoon deserted from the mili­tary intelligence operation on Sept. 23, taking with him confi­dential papers, computer discs and data he said were evidence of massive and organized illegal spying on civilians. 
He revealed data that in­cluded the names and personal records of governing party chairman Kim Young-sam; Kim Dae-jung, and 89 other law­makers as well as hundreds of dissidents, clergy and journal­ists. 
The Defense Ministry said Saturday it kept the informa­tion not for political surveil­lance but to "protect or cut off those listed from enemies or impure elements." 
Roh promised to maintain the military's political neutrality after taking office in 1988. 
Roh gathered in two thirds of the 299 National Assembly seats last January by merging his party with two conservative opposition groups. 
In August, all 78 opposition members of parliament re­signed en masse, accusing Roh of railroading bills and ignor­ing demands for reforms. 
Mandela and De Klerk to discuss black factional wars 
JOHANNESBURG, South Mrica (AP) -President F.W. de Klerk and Mrican National Congress leader Nelson Man­dela have set a meeting for Monday to discuss recent black factional fighting, newspapers reported. 
The ANC called last week for a meeting with de Klerk on the violence in black townships around Johannesburg, which has killed about 800 people since erupting Aug. 12. 
The fighting has pitted Zulu followers of the conservative Inkatha movement against Xhosas and other blacks linked to the ANC, the nation's largest anti-apartheid group. It has strained relations between the white-led government and the ANC. 
Mandela and other black leaders have accused security forces of instigating the street fighting in a bid to destabilize the country and derail peace talks with the government. 

• 
48 hour Immersion Into Inner city life 

• opportunity to experience conditions o4 poverty,ln)ustlce, and apathy existing In our cmes 

• 
privilege to meet with people who wortc to Improve these condmons and leam from their experience 

• 
during Christmas Break (2nd week of January) at one ot over 40 sites across the country 

• 
participants receive I hour academic credit 


REGISTRATION/INFORMATION SESSION October 9, 6:30 pm CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Monday, October 8, 1990
The Observer 


The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

Celebrating Spain 
The Spanish club is shown selling food and enjoying the weather outside of Lafortune during multicul­tural week. 
Brazilian elections bad news for ecologists 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil (AP) -The sweeping victories by conservatives in last week's congressional and gubernato­rial races will mean bad news for the rain forest and its de­fenders, environmentalists say. 
Conservatives won a large majority in last week's voting, and showed special strength in the nine states of the Amazon region. 
"Almost all ... are totally op­posed to ecological concerns and rational development," Fernando Gabeira, a leader of Brazil's small Green Party, said over the weekend. 
The federal government sets most environmental policy, but political scientist David Fleis­cher of the University of Brasilia noted: "Almost all pol­icy enforcement is carried out by local authorities. If they s~.~w no interest in protecting the environment, decisions at the federal level lose much ol their impact." 
Right-wing candidates for governor won outright victories in three of the nine states and were headed for Nov. 25 runoffs in the other six. 
Only in two small states, Acre 
and Amapa, did  pro-ecology  
candidates  even  get  to  the  
runoffs.  

Candidates had to win an ab­solute majority to take a first­round victory. 
In congressional races, con­servatives won at least 11 of the 13 senate chairs at stake in the Amazon region and all but a few of the house seats. 
Rightist populists have long dominated the impoverished region. Much of their success comes from support by major landowners, who traditionally control the votes of the rural poor.
Many voters also view envi­ronmentalism as an attempt to block economic growth and lock the Amazon into perennial 
backwardness. 
Slash-and-burn techniques used by ranchers and farmers have already destroyed about 8 percent of the 2-million-square­mile wilderness, according to government figures. 
In Amazonas, the area's largest state, incoming gover­nor Gilberto Mestrinho favors widescale destruction of the rain forest to promote large mining and agricultural pro­jects. 
The state's new senator, Amazonino Mendes, proposed handing out chain saws to set­tlers to speed the felling of the forest. 

great careers in FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
WITH 



COMPTROLLER'S ORGANIZATION 
explore opportunities in : 
AUDITING, ACCOUNTING, SYSTEMS AND TAX 
we seek candidates with degrees in: 
ACCOUNTING, ECONOMICS, BUSINESS, FINANCE, AND LIBERAL ARTS 
Come to our presentation/reception upper lounge -University Club 
October 29 at 6:30 P.M. 
WE WILL BE INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 

OCTOBER 30 


----~~--~­ ~-­ ~-­ 
Monday, October 8, 1990  The Observer  page 7  

Kuwaitis flee to Saudi Arabia after opening 

(AP)-Hundreds of Kuwaitis crossed into Saudi Arabia on Sunday after Iraq suddenly re­laxed restrictions on Kuwaitis leaving the occupied emirate. Some refugees said it was the latest move in an Iraqi cam­paign to depopulate Kuwait, isolate the resistance movement and prepare for war. 
World leaders kept up diplo­matic efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to the crisis that arose with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
Japan's Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu traveled to Oman after a two-day visit with King Faud in Saudi Arabia. 
PLO leader Yasser Arafat met King Hussein in Jordan and said a peace initiative on the gulf crisis was being formu­lated according to the plan proposed by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. 
On Aug. 12, Saddam said he would discuss withdrawing from Kuwait if the Israelis also 
Mormons: abortion is 'morally dangerous' 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) ­Mormon Church leaders on Sunday decried abortion, ho­mosexuality and drug addiction as "morally and spiritually dangerous" lifestyles. 
"In or out of marriage, abor­tion is not an individual choice. At a minimum, the lives of three are involved," Elder Boyd Packer told the church's 160th Semiannual General Conference. 
Only in cases of incest, rape, when a mother's health is jeop­ardized or a severely deformed fetus who cannot survive birth is abortion anything but a "thou shalt not," Packer said, and even then "much sober prayer is required to make the right choice." 
The two-day conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints concluded Sunday with the faith's presi­dent, Ezra Taft Benson, still hospitalized in serious condi­tion following surgery nearly three weeks ago for blood clots on the brain. 
Church officials said Benson, 91, watched the proceedings on television. 
Packer, a senior member of the Council of the Twelve Apos­tles, blasted those who justify 

The ND/SMC NAACP 
will hold its first panel discussion-
MINORITIES and the NO Administration 
tonight 

Monday, October 8, 1990 Theodore's (LaFortune Student Center) 8:00pm 
Come to voice your opinions and to receive some valuable information. 


HOG ROAST 
~~~,~ ailer 1~~ ~ree Game })r"·' \fJ Tickets Gin ad:vance 
\) ~1 \ ..nJ 7atthe gate 
withdrew from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
.10sexuality by saying "these Arafat said Saddam's pro­impulses are inborn, cannot be posal "has brought about an overcome and should not be re­international consensus for thesisted." 
need to solve the Palestinian problem."
"They quote scriptures to jus­"The linkage is becomingtify perverted acts between possible now. Those who believe consenting adults. That same otherwise, let them submit their logic would justify incest or the own proposals to solve themolesting of little children of Middle East problems," he said. 
either gender," he said. ~ 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismat Abdul-Maguid, mean­"I believe that most people while, arrived in Damascus forare drawn to a life of drug ad­talks with Syrian Presidentdiction or perversion or submit Hafez Assad. He indicated heto an abortion without really was making the visit to increase realizing how morally and spiritually dangerous they are." 
NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI 
OCTOBER 20, 1990 


On the evening of October 20 last year, Zheng-<l.e Wang, a Notre Dame graduate student from Tianjin, China, was struck down by a carwhile walking on Notre Dame Avenue. Zheng-<l.e had already received his master's degree in sociology, was pursuing a doctoral degree and was hoping to obtain a law degree from Notre Dame for what would certainly have been a distinguished career in international law. Uninsured at the time of the accident, Zheng-<l.e was severely injured and comatose for several months. Now confined to a wheelchair and undergoing therapy, Zheng-<l.e is able to recognize old friends and to move his fingers for rudimentary communication, but his recovery is 
cooperation in forcing Iraq out of Kuwait. 
Kaifu arrived in the Mideast last week to offer financial help to front-line states Turkey, Jordan and Egypt and to seek a political solution. He has re­ferred to a new world order after the crisis is solved in 
which Japan was eager to play a role. 
Kaifu spokesman Shigeo Takaneka said Fahd urged Tokyo to spread its financial aid to other nations hit by the U.N.-imposed economic block­ade of Iraq, such as Syria and Bangladesh. 
Takaneka said Japan reiter­ated its call for Iraq's complete and unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait, restoration of the emirate's leadership and re­lease of all foreigners detained by Iraq after its attack on Kuwait. 
Kuwaiti refugees at the Khafji border crossing in Saudi Arabia said the border opened on Friday, following intensified night searches in Kuwait City which prompted many of them to leave out of fear. They said Iraqi troops were confiscating all identification papers in Kuwait. 
That raised Saudi fears that the Iraqis planned to try to in­filtrate agents into the king­dom. 
About 1,000 people arrived from Kuwait over the weekend, most lacking any identification, Saudi border officials said. The influx was the largest since mid-September, when 7,000 Kuwaitis poured through in a three-day frenzy. 
U.S. military officials in Washington and Saudi Arabia meanwhile rt~ported the Ameri­can troop buildup in the crisis area was nearly complete, with almost 200,000 U.S. soldiers deployed there. U.S. troops lead a multinational force arrayed in the Saudi desert to forestall any further Iraqi military thrust. 
Iraq controls 20 percent of world oil reserves with its takeover of Kuwait. Saudi Ara­bia, which adjoins Kuwait, is the world's biggest oil exporter. 
In other developments: 
•Soldiers in Israel began handing out gas masks to civil­ians in a nationwide drive to guard Israelis from a possible Iraqi chemical arms attack. Military officials called it just a preventive measure. Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Shamir said in a speech Israel "has no intentions to attack Iraq," although it takes Baghdad's chemical at­tack threats seriously, Israel radio said. 
far from complete and far from certain. 
Profits derived from the sales of this T ""'hirt will be donated to Zheng-<l.e's family for the enormous expenses this tragedy has inflicted on them. 
AVAILABLE FROM HALL REPS , LA FORTUNE INFO. DESK. BOOKSTORE, PRO SHOPS, & G.S.U. OFFICE (307 LA FORTUNE) 

W&MEN·s ALI.IANCE Meetin£' Oct.a 
81.m. 

SPAGHETTI 

DINNER 
&ct.lO 
-B-fi3D.
1n every a:orm 




rl,~s8;(!~~ .. H&LYCR&S~H~Lt
Parmte and Alumni Wele~e 
en your mind The SweetestTbtnf SYR
Tickets at McCan]:less Desk 
. OcLlZla!D 


-~-----~---~---­
page 8 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 


Foreigners flee Kenya while rebels battle army 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY in 
.LONDON, ENG~AND 

THURSDAY.OCTOBER11 
Brown Bag Seminar 
THOMAS F. MALONE Visiting Faculty Fellow of the Institute and former Foreign Secretary of the National Academy of Science 
"WHITHER PLANET EARTH AND HUMANKIND?" 
12:00 noon-Room 101 Law School Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FORIll INTERNATIONAL
111111~~~~~!:: 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) -tive in Rwanda, told journalists tinued fighting in the north, in­Hundreds of foreigners that he and his family were cluding some artillery attacks crowded onto special flights staying in a hotel in Kigali by the government." out of Rwanda's capital on when rebels attacked early Fri­He said most of those leaving Sunday while government day. on the special flights were forces and rebels clashed in the "It was chaos. The French wives and children of aid work­northern part of the country. paratroopers were shooting, ers. No governments have 
Security in large parts of the and the people coming from ordered evacuations of their Kigali, the capital. and at the Uganda also were shooting," citizens. airport was being provided by he said upon arrival in Paris. A special Air France flight 500 Belgian paratroopers and "In the hotel, there was panic, carrying 252 foreign evacuees 300 French Foreign Legion­and the guests barricaded the from Rwanda arrived in Paris. naires sent in to maintain order windows with mattresses. Aboard were about 100 French and protect foreigners. Zaire "The Rwandan soldiers citizens and a large contingent also has sent 500 soldiers. seemed especially nervous, and of Germans, as well as other 
Some of the more than 700 it seemed they were firing at nationalities. refugees flown to France and the French troops." In Brussels, 463 refugees ar­Belgium recounted the chaos in A diplomat in Kigali, reached rived aboard thre.e Belgian the country since rebels invaded by telephone from Nairobi, re­planes. More than 200 of the Sept. 30. ported no violence in the city refugees were Belgian. Others 
Jean-Claude Fayd-Herbe, the early Sunday. But he added: were Dutch, American, German World Bank's chief representa-"We've heard reports of con-and Danish. 
Dolphins, held in captivity for extensive study, released to ocean after 2 years 
TAMPA BAY, Fla. (AP) -tion about their watery envi­The transmitter has a rangeEcho and Misha, two dolphins ronment. of more than six miles and an held captive for more than two Last month, the two 300-expected life of two weeks be­
years as part of a California pound dolphins were trans­fore the specially designed bolts 
research project, splashed to ported to Mote on Central dissolve and fall off. freedom in the same shallow Florida's Gulf Coast to prepare After that and for the year to waters they once knew as their for their return home. come, researchers workinghome. While other captive dolphins from a small boat will track the 
"When they start swimming have been released in the wild, dolphins three to four days a along the coast and socializing Wells said this is the first pro­week and for up to 12 hours a with other dolphins -then ject involving electronic moni­day -taking photographs to we'll call it a success," said toring and tracking to find out see how well they are assimilat­conservation biologist Randy how captive dolphins readjust ing into dolphin society and Wells, who plans to track the and socialize. even counting their breaths to 
dolphins for a year in what sci­"You have to understand that gauge their health. entists say is the first extensive for the past two years, these If they begin to show signs of study of how captive dolphins dolphins have been isolated and sickness or are shunned byadapt in the wild. hand-fed nothing but frozen other dolphins, scientists are 
"Of course, it will take them a fish," said Kerri Dieffenwierth, prepared to take them back. while to get their bearings," spokeswoman for Mote, where But Wells doesn't expect that to Wells said. the dolphins were held in a pro­
happen. 
Within seconds after a dozen tective lagoon, taught to eat Mote Marine Laboratory re­live fish and slowly weaned searchers gingerly lowered from human contact. Echo and Misha into the water For the first two days in the Saturday, they sped off in tan­wild, the 8-and 9-year-old dem -and beached themselves males will be followed around on a sandbar. the clock, both visually and 
Cheers turned to concern, and with the help of a coin-sized researchers swam out to the radio transmitter on Echo's 
AWARENESS
foundering dolphins and gave dorsal fm. them a second push. Within an "Male dolphins tend to bond hour, they were spotted swim­for life," the spokeswoman WEEK ming with a pod of about three said. "they were together when 
dolphins. we found them and they should 
Wells, affiliated with the be together forever." October 7-13, 1990 Chicago Zoological Society, took the dolphins from the same harbor in the summer of 

RN AND L 


1988 for a project at the Uni­
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH
versity of California at Santa 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS-No Sales
Cruz. He wanted to study the SOJlhli>ttc:atfld system of sounds 
PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
iiiiiiiiJii'informa-
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with 
tilJ y l'l' 

people, anilable for enning and weekend shifts. All training provided
FOR 

$5.00-$12.00/hour 
121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd fl. 282-2754
~'TIIf: CAUSE" 
Israeli officials complain about U.S. travel warning 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel Foreign Ministry spokesman 
expressed its "amazement" Yosef Amihud said. 
on Sunday at a State De­It said "the Americans 
partment travel warning have recently expressed their 
that urged Americans to satisfaction with the recent 
avoid the Persian Gulf and improvement of the condi­
Israeli-occupied lands be­tions of security in the terri­
cause of persistent unrest tories." 
and tensions. Jud·ea and Samaria are the 
The advisory was issued biblical names for the occu­
Saturday. pied West Bank, which with 
Prime Minister Yitzhak the Gaza Strip was captured 
Shamir sought to reassure by Israel in the 196 7 Mideast 
travelers Sunday, saying, war. A Palestinian uprising 
"All friends of Israel and against Israeli rule has been 
those who know Israel also going on in these areas since 
know you can visit Israel December 1987. 
safely ... without fear." Tourism and hotel officials 
Israel's Embassy in have reported a 30 percent 
Washington was instructed drop in the number of visi­
"to express our amazement tors since the gulf crisis be­
and complaint concerning gan. A nationwide gas mask 
the travel advisory which to­distribution campaign has 
gether with the situation in begun here in response to 
the Persian Gulf dealt with threats of chemical attack 
Judea, Samaria and Gaza," from Iraq. 
:;upport 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­

WEDNESDAY.OCTOBER10 
Northern Ireland Bishops Panel 
MOST REV. EDWARD DALY Roman Catholic Bishop of Derry RT. REV. DR. JAMES MEHAFFEY Anglican Bishop of Derry & Raphoe REV. MARGARET L. JOHNSTON Northern Ireland Working Group 
"THE POSSIBILITIES FOR PEACE IN NORTHERN IRELAND" 4:00p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
Up to 1,000 foreigners have left Kigali on special flights since late Friday. the diplo­matic source in Rwanda said on condition of anonymity. 
Friday's fighting in Kigali lasted only a few hours, but there were fears the conflict could degenerate into the ethnic violence that has plagued Rwanda in the past. 
The rebels belong mostly to Rwanda's minority Tutsi ethnic group. They were chased from power three decades ago by the 
majority  Hutu  tribe  in  clan  
fighting  that  killed  tens  of  
thousands of people.  

During those clashes, more than 100,000 Tutsis fled to neighboring Uganda, Zaire and Tanzania, where they have been living as refugees ever since. 
The diplomat said govern­ment soldiers were conducting house-to-house searches in some parts of Kigali, but it was not clear whether they were looking for arms or Tutsis. Tutsis are generally distin­guishable from the shorter. stockier Hutus by their tall, lanky physiques. 
Many of the rebels are said to be deserters from the Ugandan army. Their numbers never have been reliably estimated. Figures cited by various diplo­matic sources have ranged from a few hundred to several thousand. 
They are led by Maj. Gen. Fred Rwigyema, a Rwandan Tutsi. 

---------~~~~----, 
Monday, October 8, 1990 The Observer page 9 
Bitter debate in Calif. gubernatorial race 
BUHBANK, Calif. (AP) -Gu­bernatorial eandidates Dianne Feinstein and Pete Wilson dashed Sunday on Wilson's 
U.S. Senate attendance record, campaign funding and their vi­sions for the state's future, in a bitter first debate. 
Feinstein, the Demoeratie former mayor of San Fran­eisco, and Hepublican Wilson both daimed to be the eandi­date of new ideas. 
"I think there's a need for someone that's fresh, new and a little bit different," Feinstein said in the live, televised debate. 
Wilson said that being a Re­publican would not handcuff him in Saeramento. where the Legislature is dominated by Democrats. lie also portrayed himself as a reformer. 
''I'm running for governor because I want to make ehanges in California that I think need to be made," said Wilson. lie would give up his Senate seat if elected Nov. 6 to sueee11d retiring Republican Gov. (;m>rge Deukmejian. 
The debate quiekly turned to attaeks. some personal. 
Feinstein accused Wilson of having "the worst attendance reeord in the Congress." miss­ing votes on the death penalty, Supreme Court confirmation, Middle East resolutions and the budget. 
"I think absenteeism is an important indieation of per­formance," said ~<'einstein. 
Wilson countered that he has a IJ3 pereent attendanee reeord overall. 2 percentage points better than that of Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif. 
Turning to the offensive, Wil­son criticized Feinstein for tak­ing large campaign donations in the wake of a judge's over­turning Proposition 73, which had limited individual donations to $1,000. 
lie singled out Feinstein's ac­ceptance of $150,000 from a California llighway Patrol or­ganization. 
"Dianne, I am truly shocked that you would be so blind to so gross a conflict of interest," he said. 
The one-hour debate, tele­vised from KNBC-TV's studios, marked the first time the rivals for governor have met face-to­face in eight months, and their first-ever televised showdown. A second and final televised de­bate is scheduled next week in San Francisco. 
The debate was divided into 
30 minutes of questions from 
political reporters and 30 min­
utes in which Feinstein and 
Wilson questioned each other. 
The two debates are espe­cially important because Wilson and Feinstein have been virtu­ally tied in every independent poll reported since they won their party nominations in the June primary. 
Much of the debates' impact is expected to come in post-de­bate television and print re­ports. 
Viewership for the Sunday debate was not expected to be particularly high because it co­incided with the second game of the American League baseball championship series between Oakland and Boston 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

"li" ~~9D~QtJ2\~..2§ 
Acareer path at EDS can lead in many directions. 
Entry-level Computer Opportunities ( :onsidn a rompany where yon ran work with leadi1~g edge ted111ology in a variety of industries-EDS. As a $!>5 hiII ion corporal ion providing i nli>nll<ltion tech­nology solutions li>r customers around the world. EDS believes r('(l/ career opportunity means a variety of people working with a variety ofalternatives. ()ur entry-level development programs are recognized as models in the infimnation technology services field. They provide the practical hands-on experience and the technical know-how needed to excel and grow in this dynamic industry. 
Systems Engineering Development (SED) Program 
• 
4-year college degree (any major) with a 3.0/4.0 overall (;PA preferred 

• 
Demonstrated technical aptitude 


Engineering Systems Development (ESDI Program 
• 4-year college dev;ree in electrical, manufacturing, mechanical, industrial or chemical engineering with a 3.o/4.0 overall GPA preferred 
All positions require excellent communication skills, a strong record ofachievement and willingness to relocate nationwide. 
EDS will be conducting on-campus interviews on October 9th and lOth for the SED and ESD Programs. For more information, contact your placement office or send us your resume today. 
EDS Recruiting 700 Tilwer Drive, 5th Floor P.O. Box 7019, Dept. 2CBZ2H10 
Troy, M14H007-701!l 
tll'-1 l~.tn rtju,aluppwlunil)' rlllJJiuvrr mJIMh 
II 


Communication . AP ~horo 
South African State President, P.w. de Klerk (left) and Deputy President of the Afr!can Nattonal Congress, Nelson Mandala (right) shown in Cape Town, South Africa prior to their talks rn. early May. Mandala and de Klerk are scheduled to meet today to discuss fighting between black lacttons. 
Ex-Kiansman Duke loses Louisiana race for Senate; Johnston gets the message 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -State the state's 64 parishes and held puter programs or courthouse Rep. David Duke conceded de-Johnston close in several operations. Those reported to feat Sunday to incumbent U.S. others. Duke had campaigned the Associatdd Press gave Sen. J. Bennett Johnston, who on a ticket that opposed affir-Bagert 10,536 votes -less said he "got the message" from mative action and proposed than 1 percent of the 1.4 mil­600,000 voters who backed welfare reform and a flat-rate lion cast. Duke, a former Klan leader federal income tax. Duke said "political deals" running as a Republican. Johnston said Duke benefited were responsible for Bagert's 
Duke backed off his threat to from a protest vote arising withdrawal. Johnston drew the file a lawsuit over absentee from sour economic conditions unprecedented cross-party en­ballots cast -but not counted in Louisiana. dorsement of eight Senate Re­-for state Sen. Ben Bagert, "A lot of those votes were publicans and Jack Kemp, sec­the official Republican nominee. protest votes," Johnston said. retary of housing and urban Bagert dropped out two days "People were sort of venting development. before Saturday's primary their spleen. They said, 'Well, Johnston said his 10 percent amid pressure from national I'm going to send old Bennett a victory margin would have been GOP leaders who feared his message.' Bennett got the mes-considered a landslide had it presence in the race would help sage." not been for Duke's presence in Duke force a November runoff. He said he would work to di-the race. 
"We'll help people who feel versify the state's economy "When you can win at a time their right to vote has been ab-away from the petroleum in-that incumbents all over the rogated," Duke said. "We'll dustry's boom-and-bust cycles. country are in trouble, when help them pursue that if they so Under Louisiana's unusual Louisiana has been in a depres­desire, but I'm trying to do as open primary system, all candi-sion and when people are trying Bennett Johnston said, and dates run against each other in to send a message ... I think kind of heal at this point." the primary, regardless of that's a tremendous win," 
Complete but unofficial re-party. A runoff would have Johnston said. turns gave Johnston 749,552 been held Nov. 6 if Johnston Duke said he was studying a votes, or 54 percent, and Duke had failed to receive a majority possible run for governor in 605,681 votes, or 44 percent. Saturday. 1991. Such a race would re­Two minor Democratic candi-Bagert withdrew too late to quire him to give up his state dates split the remainder. Nick get his name off the ballot. Un-House seat, which he won in a Accardo had 21,709 votes and der a 1981 law, Bagert's votes special election in 1989. Larry Crowe had 14,472 votes. could not be counted. There also has been specula­
Duke's strength surprised Some were, however, because tion Duke might seek a U.S. pollsters, as he carried 23 of it was too late to change com-House seat in 1992 . 
§~'>.31Z~•·)M(~ll-55~iof~·:::;..:i<DID:::ZI£7.:~'::>ai!:K'~~. ··:JD;···~-~411l''::~:~r>.ai!K~, 
~··· . . THE ~IEGFRIED LECTURE :E~IES .IN ENTR~PREN~URIA~· ! t,.; STUDIES PRESENTS 1
II ' ~
JOHN McCORMACK CHAIRMAN AND OWNER OF VISIBLE CHANGES 
i_•,,-, 
I 

! JOHN McCORMACK WILL BE VISITING OUR CAMPUS ON WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 10th. 1990 AS PART OF THE SIEGFRIED LECTURE SERIES IN ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES. 
MR. McCORMACK WILL BE GIVING A PRESENTATION FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC, IN ROOM 122 OF HAYES-HEALY AT 4:00PM ON WEDNESDAY. THE PRESENTATION IS TITLED "WAKE UP AMERICA-THE RECESS IS 
OVER." 

MR. McCORMACK WAS FEATURED IN A COVER STORY IN INC. MAGAZINE IN JANUARY OF 1988, ENTITLED "THE HOTTEST ENTREPRENEUR IN AMERICA." HIS BOOK SELF MADE IN AMERICA IS DUE OUT IN JANUARY, 1991, AND ALREADY HAS 150,000 COPIES ADVANCE ORDERED. THIS PAST YEAR, MR. McCORMACK TAUGHT A CLASS AT RICE UNIVERSITY; STUDENTS VOTED IT THE "CLASS OF THE YEAR." 
COME AND JOIN US! 
,. 

"i.iD:~:.>.ai!K~~ie'~)QID(:::o-.<::XF..;;:::•*I<:~::oaiD{:~~~-~,_~ 
Business
page 10 
Monday, October 8, 1990 

U.S. Congress still undecided on budget 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Demo­cratic leaders predicted Sunday that a new budget agreement easing Medicare cuts and tern-. pering excise tax increases will be reached before the govern­ment shutdown takes full effect Tuesday. 
Democrats told their leaders to go ahead with a plan de­signed to let Democratic-con­trolled committees draft later the specifics for reaching $500 billion in deficit reduction over the next five years. 
Republicans were balking but House Speaker Thomas Foley (D-Wash.) said he might go ahead with it anyway. Informal bipartisan talks continued into the night Sunday as the House remained on standby to con­sider any plan put before it. 
Sorry, we're closed 
The Senate, meanwhile, con­vened at 6 p.m. and adjourned 12 minutes later after conclud­ing that it would be hours, at best, before anything concrete would emanate froni the House. 
That meant there was no chance of a final budget agreement being approved Sunday, but the practical im­pact of pushing a decision into today was marginal since it is Columbus Day. 
Republicans and Democrats, meanwhile, continued to blame each other for the partial gov­ernment shutdown that closed federal tourist attractions and other weekend programs na­tionwide. 
Foley said President Bush's veto Saturday of a bill designed to keep the government operat­ing during the negotiations was "a bad mistake" that had slowed the talks. 
The president was "saying we ought to rebuild the fiscal house of this country and (then 
he) sets the house  on fire for  
awhile  to  get  our  attention,"  
Foley said.  

Bush spent Sunday at h~ mountaintop retreat at Camp David, conferring by telephone with his chief of staff, John Su­nunu, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, part of the administration team that nego­tiated the defeated budget pact. 
Vice President Dan Quayle, appearing on ABC-TV's "This Week With David Brinkley" program, said Bush was not the problem, "The problem is Congress." 
AP Photo 


People were turned away from the national monuments, the Smithsonian museums, art galleries and pther government attractions in Washington Saturday because of the budget crisis. 
UAW and Ford reach agreement Three-year deal includes $1.5 billion for laid-off workers 
DEARBORN. Mich. (AP) ­The· United Auto Workers union and Ford Motor Co. reached a tentative national labor con­tract Sunday closely mirroring the agreement last month with General Motors Corp. 
"This tentative agreement provides that UAW-represented Ford workers will fully share in the gains achieved by the pat­tern settlement reached earlier at General Motors," said UAW President Owen Bieber in a statement. 
Under the three-year deal, Ford will put aside about $1.5 billion to cover the income of workers who are laid off, Bieber said. GM, which has three times as many UAW workers, promised to spend up to $4 billion to protect the in­comes of laid-off workers. 
Negotiators stayed up all Saturday night to close the deal. As the negotiations inten­sified last week, after the union's contract with GM was ratified, the main dispute was a clause calling for penalty pay up to $5 an hour for excessive scheduled overtime. 
That provision in the GM­UAW contract was aimed di­rectly at Ford. Since the late 1980s, Ford's manufacturing employees worked considerably more overtime than those at GM. At one time, nearly 20 per­cent of the cars and trucks the automaker assembled were made by workers on overtime. 
Ford Chairman Harold Poling said he did not expect the over­time penalty to be an immediate problem because of the falloff in truck and car sales. 
"I think short term we're go­ing to be faced a serious prob­lem because of the general economy," Poling said. "I think it's going to take some time to evaluate what the alternatives are." 
Analysts and automakers have forecast a slow recovery in the sales rate of cars and trucks in the United States from a trough late last year. 
Ford "probably won't have much in overtime expenditures next year," auto analyst David Healy of the New York invest­ment banker Barclays de Zoete Wedd said Sunday. 
The union has scheduled a meeting of its 135-member Ford bargaining council for Tuesday in Dearborn. That panel of union local presidents and bargaining committee of­ficials must approve the tenta­tive agreement before it is sent to the UAW's 44 Ford locals for rank-and-file ratification. 
About 100,000 Ford employ­ees are covered by the UAW na­tional contract. GM has about 300,000 workers represented by the union, and Chrysler Corp., which still must bargain 
a  national  agreement,  has  
about  63,000  hourly  and  
salaried UAW members.  

Provisions of the pattern agreement included: 
• 
A three-year income guar­antee for every worker laid off for more than 36 weeks at fac­tories closed because of slow car, truck or parts sales. 

• 
A 3 percent boost in work­ers' base wages in the first year and lump-sum payments of 3 percent of wages in the second and third years. 

• 
Continuation of cost-of-liv­ing adjustments in wages. 

• 
Improvements in pension payments. 

• 
No change in health-care provisions. 


Quayle predicted that 90 per­cent of the budget deal Bush unsuccessfully lobbied for last week would remain, and would pass with a few changes. 
"We now know what the problems were with the old one," agreed Sen. James Sasser (D-Tenn.), chairman of the Se­nate Budget Committee. 
"The new budget agreement in my view will address the problem of the overly large Medicare cuts ... and also will address the revenue part of the package," said Sasser, also ap­pearing on ABC. 
The draft plan circulated in the House would reduce from $60 billion to $42 billion the amount that Medicare would contribute to deficit reduction over the next five years. 
Beneficiaries of Medicare coverage would only be ex­pected to bear $12 billion of the cost, compared to $28 billion in the original package. The rest would be made up by limiting allowances for providers of the medical services for the elderly. 
Although the draft did not spell out details, legislators said they were told the de­ductible for doctors' bills would rise from $75 to $100, instead of $150 in the original plan. In addition, monthly premiums would rise at a much slower rate. 
Opposition from the public to the package seemed to concen­trate on a list of provisions in­cluding the Medicare premiums and fees, and a 12-cent motor fuel boost. 

Non-essential U.S. services on hold 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vaca­tioning Americans have been hardest hit so far by the budget stalemate, encountering "closed" signs at Montana's Custer Battlefield National Monument and locked gates at the White House. 
The federal government tech­nically shut down at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, except for essential services, but that was the first day of a three-day Columbus Day holiday weekend. 
As a result. most federal em­ployee did not anticipate re­turning to work until Tuesday. Workers were told to report to their jobs Tuesday, at which time non-essential personnel will be sent home within the first three hours if there is no budget agreement. 
The shutdown affects non­essential government personnel nationwide. But federal opera­tions deemed essential, such as those involving aviation, health, law enforcement and security, are not affected by the cns1s. Normal weekend operations were in effect, for example, at the Defense Department and at the Federal Aviation Adminis­tration. 
Over the weekend, the most visible impact of the budget im­passe fell on the National Park Service, which runs mountain and seaside resorts from coast to coast. 
In Michigan, layoffs were re­
ported at the Pictured Rocks 
National Lakeshore at Munising 
and at the Sleeping Bear Dunes 
on Lake Michigan near Empire. 
In the nation's capital, thou­sands of tourists were locked out of some of the nation's most historic sights for the second day: the 13 Smithsonian Institution museums, including the air and space museum, one of the most popular in the world; the White House; the Li­brary of Congress; and the Washington Monument. 

The Evolution of GM's Saturn Cars 

1982 (July): "Saturn" chosen as code name for new GM small-car project. 1983 (Nov.): GM chairman Roger Smith officially unveils the project. 1984 (Sept.): First Saturn vehicle assembled for testing. 1985 (Jan.): Smith says GM will invest $5 billion in Saturn, employ 
6,000 people to build it and produce 500,000 cars a year. 
(July): GM and United Autoworkers announce unique agreement tor Japanese-style production of Saturn cars. Spring Hill, Tennessee chosen as site for Saturn manufacturing complex. 
1986 (Oct.): Hurt by delays and management changes, GM halves 
original production plans. 1988 (Jan.): GM starts recruiting Saturn workers. 1989 (Jan.): Twenty-six dealers sign franchise agreements to sell 
Satumcars. 1990 (Spring): First group of Saturns are assembled for testing of mass-manufacturing systems. (Summer): Production of cars destined for dealers begin. "Job 1 ," 
the first car to be marketed, scheduled for rollout. (Autumn): Saturns scheduled to go on sale as 1991 models. (Oct. 11 ): Saturns debut. Price range: $7,995 to $11,775. 
API Ross Toro 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Viewpoint
Monday, October 8, 1990 page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ...........••.......... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ••••..•..•.•...Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ...••••••••• Amy Eckert Sports Editor .•.••••.•....•.••.•..Greg Guffey Production Manager •••.•.•••••••Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor•••••••••.•..•••.Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ....•..••••••....••.•••••Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••.••.....•..•••.•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..••••.•Corinne Pavlis Controller...........•........•.. Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS 
Security for women requires work 

Overly competitive MSU fans attack NO student after game 
Dear Editor: 
I've restrained myself from writing this letter for a long time, believing the University would surely recognize the problem of security. Unfortunately, I have been let down. 
With all the recent incidents concerning attackers and sus­picious persons, I would think the University would take steps to protect its students. It spends large sums of money to keep our beautiful golden dome well­lit at night (I have no problem at all with that}, yet, right beneath it, the dark grounds surrounding the administration building is a likely setting for an attack. Many other places on campus are similarly dark and innocent victim to walk by. Running from an attacker from within the lot is also unsafe-how easily can a girl wearing a dress or heels scale a chain-link fence? At the very least, security officers should be posted at the entrances of the D-2 lot from dark until 2 a.m. on weeknights, dark until 3 
a.m. on weekends. 
If this would be a strain on security, maybe the University should consider putting some of our tuition increases into beefing up the staff. A friend of mine was recently refused a se­curity escort from St. Mary's to Notre Dame because overbur­dened security "doesn't give escorts in the daytime." Funny, but I seem to recall a recent 11 a.m. attaek near Saint Joseph's Lake. When my friend pointed this out to security on the phone, they hung up on her. Not only did she have to walk alone, but she was particularly unable to defend herself because she was burdened with several pieces of luggage. 
The irony is that the current school year has been desig­nated the Year of Women. If the University is truly committed to its own theme, it should wake up and notice the special safely risks faced by women. Improving security will do far more for women than any panel discussion. 
Julie Scharfenberg Lewis Hall Oct. 1, 1990 

Dear Editor. 
I would like to footnote a let­ter which was written to the ed­itor last week (The Observer, Sept. 28). In it a student expressed her shame and discontent for a fellow student who was yelling out obscenities at the Michigan State game. While I do not condone such completely unnecessary behavior either, I feel the student body of Notre Dame has a right to hear my story. 
I traveled to Michigan State, like many other ND fans, to see a football game and have some fun. Out of the twenty of us who made the trip, only a few had tickets in hand. Subsequently, most of us were looking for any tickets we could find and as fate would have it, I had to settle for a seat alone. Nevertheless, the game was exciting and I made a few new friends during its course. After the game, however, as I left the stadium to join my friends to celebrate, I encountered unsportsmanlike conduct which surpasses the aforementioned "big-mouth." 
When I exited the stands six men approached me, singled me out and, without provocation, attacked me. Presumably, my Notre Dame paraphernalia offended the MSU fans so they proceeded to 
DOONESBURY 
kick and beat me. In fact, while they were on top of me, an in­terval which seemed like an eternity, one sensation which stood out was the sound of cheers from the bystanders looking on. Finally people be­gan to get involved and security arrived; smaller fights ensued, and I was lost in the wave of the crowd. After some time I happened upon a couple of friends and they carried me to the RV I arrived in. Once there, security was called, and I spent the next long hours in an ambulance and a hospital emergency room. 
Obviously it would be impos­sible to assume my attackers were students; however, judg­ing from their shouts and screams, there were in fact MSU fans. It seems to me that I should not be the only one of­fended beyond belief by this in­cident. 
I think we all need to re­evaluate exactly what competi­tion involves; there are bound­aries which should always be respected-by losers and victors alike. If nothing else, I certainly hope someone (if not everyone) can learn something from this episode. 
Jim Di Joseph Grace Hall Oct. 1,1990 

unsafe. 
The University finally realized the urgent need for lighting and call boxes in the D-6 parking lot. But what about those who park in D-2? Not only is it poorly lit, but no call boxes ex­ist. Worst of all is the fence which surrounds the lot. Since there are only a couple of openings at opposite sides of the very large and shadowy lot, a potential attacker need only wait outside an opening for an 
Student appreciates support of peers 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to comment on the generosity of the students and faculty at Saint Mary's. Last week, I went into my classes, as well as some others, and explained that on Sept. 29 I was going to go on a 10 mile horseback ride to raise money for the We Can Ride 4-H Club-the · Berrien County horseback riding program for the handicapped. I was overwhelmed by the response I received, and I thank everyone 

LOOK, BCU'51C, I CO/ItT!3NJOY IAKJRJ<.IN6 FOR ateNTS UK& UNIV!iRSA/... PfiTROU:UM ANY M)l(t THAN YaJ [)(), BUTI HAV~ 7lJ uw; 
/N7Hf3' 
R&A/... 
IF YOU t{)(J( HARIJENOI/6H, AU.. 
aJ/YfPANI&S AR/3 PROBABl-Y 00­./NG 50M6THING 08JCCT/ONA!Jt&. At.-9<?, I'Vt" 6JTA FAMI/..Y NOW. U!<£ !TOR. 7HAT ~ 
\ 
I KNOW, 
00 YOR
Mil<£, I 

UN~AN[)... \ 
\ 

''IT JU~T 1\l.L HAFKNt;D C.fJ ~A?I.... " 

who contributed. 
In commending those who could sponsor me, I do not wish to scorn those who could not. I certainly understand that indi­viduals cannot give to every cause and that being a student (or teacher) does not pay well. I am certain, however, because of the community's spirit, members of Saint Mary's still give to the causes they most believe in when they are able. I am sure that the same spirit crosses the street to Notre Dame. 
Again, I thank those who contributed. Money collected from Saint Mary's alone totaled around $200, and other contri­butions brought my total to $300 and made me the adult in the program with the most money raised. 
Victoria Bensley Off-campus Oct. 1, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MIKE, IIJ//) 

OH... RJGffT.
HAV&N/N& 

1-k'JW'f?& 7H5Y 
011/..0R/3N 

AU-/VIAKJNG
[)(JRJNG TH& 

WT? I
13TH a:NTUR:f. 
\ 

'A person wakes up and doesn't think that the last day of his life could be beginning.' 
Ryszard Kapuscinski 
Viewpoint

page 12 Monday, October 8, 1990 
Persuasive forces demand self-sacrifice 
By Timothy Calmeyn 
, On the evening of Sept. 29, a television series called "Star Trek: The Next Generation" had its season premier. The great bulk of Star Trek productions have always dealt with significant moral and philosophical ideas. This year's premiere featured an enemy known as the "Borg" just out­side of earth and ready to de­mand that all beings on earth sacrifice themselves to the Borg collective where their diversity as a species would be inte­grated into the Borg collective. 
For those of you familiar with the amazing feats accomplished by ships named "Enterprise," it should come as no surprise that the Enterprise prevailed and the earth was not forced into submission. The skills of the Enterprise crew and Captain Picard's ability to "individualize" while still under Borg control saved the earth and perhaps all of the Federation. 
Of course, Star Trek is fiction, but the moral threat posed by the Borg is not. There are extremely powerful and in­fluential forces on this earth proclaiming that one's life is not one's own and that it should be lived for a purpose other than your own self-interest. This doctrine often includes lines such as, "You are your brother's keeper." 
Most people on earth are in some way united with the phi­losophy of self-sacrifice. Manifestations of this have often been political, in that ac­tual physical force was used, as in Nazi Germany. Nazism de­manded its members and citi­zenry live their lives for the state. A statement by Adolf Hitler (quoted in The Ominous Parallels: The End of Freedom in America by Leonard Peikoffi summarizes the Nazi philoso­phy: 
"It is thus necessary that the individual should finally come to realize that his own ego is of no importance in comparison with the existence of his nation; that the position of the individ­ual ego is conditioned solely by the interests of the nation as a whole... that above all unity of a nation's spirit and will are worth far more than the free­dom of the spirit and the will of an individual. .." 
Politicians are often calling for sacrifice. John F. Kennedy once said, "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for you coun­try." This was said with fan­fares in the background. Such statements are by no means limited to Democrats or "liberals." The Republicans and the "conservatives" are just as guilty for demanding that peo­ple be self-sacrificing. 
Politics, and the use of force which often results, is just one way that the individual is at­tacked and his or her life is demanded to be sacrificed. In fact, force is perhaps the least effective means by which the individual submits to the collec­tive. The most effective method used to destroy the individual is the call for self-sacrifice. 
People tend to resist force, but they seem to show little re­sistance for arguments by per­suasion. Many year ago, a man came who showed to the world 
• 

L---~----------~~----------------------------~~sexual functionaries. Sexual 
Public Forum series promotes discursive campus atmosphere 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in response to Tom Dixon's letter (The Observer, Oct. 2). In his letter, Mr. Dixon questioned why the University would invite Geraldine Ferraro to speak at Notre Dame when her stance on abortion conflicts with the Church's teaching on this issue. 
For clarification, student government invited Ferraro to speak as part of our "Public Forum on Contemporary Issues" series. The goal of this series is to spark discussion and debate about important and pressing issues of the day. We believe that by inviting people whose beliefs are controversial, it causes people to reflect on their own beliefs and values. We invited Ferraro because she was the first woman to run for vice president. The fact that her lecture caused people to discuss the issue of Catholic politicians and their stances on abortion is positive. Mr. Dixon's letter is a perfect example of this type of discussion occurring, and we thank him for making his views known. 
Inviting Ferraro to campus in no way means that student government endorses her position on any issue. Rather, it means that Student Government endorses promoting an open, discursive atmosphere which is essential for a true learning community. 
Robert F. Pasin Student Body President Fred Tombar III Student Body Mce President Oct. 3, 1990 

that force is not necessary to destroy the ego. This man taught by example and per­suaded with emotion. His final act can be considered the ulti­mate expression of the anti-life philosophies. With no regard for his own self, he willingly died claiming to save humanity while supposedly possessing the power to free himself. 
He died, and many have claimed that he rose. He did rise, has risen and continues to rise on a nearly constant basis. The will of Jesus Christ echoes in every man and woman who willingly lives his or her life for others. Jesus Christ can be heard in the calls to self-sacri­fice by ministers, teachers, politicians and perhaps by you, the reader. 
In the novel, Atlas Shrugged, the author Ayn Rand presents the moral code that she claims, and I agree, no man or woman should ever break. It reads, "I swear-by my life and my love of it-that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine." 
If you consider this quote carefully, you should be able· to conclude that it does not repre­sent a radical deviation from the mainstream of ideas offered today (e.g. altruism). Surely, you should be able to see the contrast that that quote makes with Catholicism and Christianity in general. I would never ask anyone to accept my words on the basis of faith, and no reasonable person should ever do that. Instead, I would like to mention two reasons why such ideas, although anti­Christian and against the religious goals of this University, should be given con­sideration. 
The first reason is one I think the University should agree with. This is that an honest commitment to the truth not only demands a free flow of ideas, but also a rational con­sideration of such ideas. 
The second reason comes from the Notre Dame 1989-90 Bulletin of Information. 
"... Notre Dame's Catholic character is a call to be a wel­coming place, a kind of ex­tended family where individuals from all backgrounds and of every faith can both feel at home and be prized for the spe­cial contribution that they make. It is a call to cultivate a spirit of honest and open ex­change, always in a valuing context." 
Although my epistemology is not based on "faith" (used above). I think a substitute word such as "belief" fits into the context of that quote. 
Timothy Calmeyn is a sopho­more chemical engineering ma­jor. 


Senate statement implies behavioral acceptance 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame Student Senate's recent vote to recog­nize National Coming Out Day "in recognition of the problems and concerns faced by gay and lesbian students" greatly dis­appointed me and many of my fellow students. 
Unfortunately, this action goes beyond its stated objective of condemning discrimination, harassment and violence. The philosophy behind National Coming Out Day carries with it not only the laudable purpose of encouraging tolerance for those of a homosexual orienta­tion, but also an implied accep­tance of the behavior associ­ated with homosexuality. Human beings are not merely 
relations have two essential 
parts (in the true, philosophical sense of the word): union and procreation. When we deny the second part, we deny part of our life. It is not creative, but by its own nature tends toward being an exercise in self-grati­fication, which is destructive. Many homosexual groups, such as Courage, acknowledge this distinction. They feel strongly about their homosexual orien­tation, but choose to lead faith­ful, celibate lives. 
You need not accept my per­sonal opinion (although I have a few gay friends who do). There is always the authority of law, as shown by the United States Supreme Court. A 1986 case, Bowers v. Hardwick, held that there is no constitutional right to engage in sodomy and upheld a Georgia statute that prohibited such behavior, even between consenting adults. 
Finally, let us keep in mind that Notre Dame is a Catholic institution. The teaching au­thority of the Church instructs us that while homosexual ori­entation per se is not immoral, homosexual activity, like ex­tramarital heterosexual activity, is sinful and should not be encouraged by anyone, much less the students of a Catholic university. 
I sincerely hope that the Notre Dame Student Senate makes more prudent decisions in the future. 
Maria A. Pedulla Off-campus Oct. 3, 1990 

The Viewpoint Department welcomes submissions from any and all members of the Notre Dame /Saint Mary's community. You don't have to be a regular writer or a member of the Observer staff to submit a column. Voice your views and make a difference-write Viewpoint at 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Art column evokes emotional response 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame art com­munity, I'd like to offer a re­sponse to Florentine Hoelker's Inside Column (The Observer, Sept. 28). In the commentary, Hoelker described Father Austin Collins' sculpture outside of Decio as a "seemingly careless disposal of trash." Hoelker also described other sculptures in our community with a barrage of uneducated, negative comments. In the article, art is described as "nonsense, a meaningless mass, trite, rubbish, and nothing significant." 
It is clear that Hoelker has had no art background. The reference to a "trendy wave of non-expressive garbage that some dare to call art" was a particularly emotional and childish response to a "lump of rusting metal." 
Hoelker failed to realize that all types of art evoke a response from the viewer. Just as I was thoroughly disgusted with his commentary, "Hoelker found Fr. Collins' sculpture repulsive. Each accomplished its purpose-both the art and the article forced a response from someone. Personally, I found Hoelker's article nothing more than a mass of unsubstantiated slams on the University art community. This does not make the article right or wrong; it is still journalism. Likewise, just because a sculpture seems meaningless and trite, it is still art. 
I suggest Hoelker open his eyes. He might actually appreciate the emotional response true art evokes. I find it hard to believe that some can consider Hoelker's article liberal-minded and expressive. 
Tim Gasperak Fisher Hall Oct. 3, 1990 


- 
Accent  
Monday, October 8, 1990  page 13  

'Chimes' magazine provides Saint Mary's students chance to showcase talents 
ANNA MARIE TABOR 
accent writer 
"Shakespeare and Milton don't inspire writers to write. People around them do," says Max Westler, Saint Mary's as­sistant professor of English and faculty advisor for "Chimes" magazine. 
Saint Mary's students will be inspired and enlightened when they receive copies of the 1990 "Chimes" in their mailboxes this week. Beth Henaldi, a Saint Mary's senior and the editor of "Chimes," anticipates a good response since the project is unique to Saint Mary's. 
"Chimes" is a student-written and -compiled literature and art magazine that displays the talent of peers. It is unlikely that you missed the "'Chimes' is Coming" posters, unless you've walked to class with your eyes dos1~d and haven't opened an issue of The Observer lately. 
Henaldi pointed out that the staff has made a "conscious ef­fort to advertise so that stu· dents will recognize 'Chimes' and btl curious enough to read it." Having worked on the magazine for four years, He­naldi apprnr.iates the role it plays at Saint Mary's, but has found that many students are unfamiliar with the publication. 
Westler explained the impor­tance of "Chimes" is "that it shows a different aspect of Saint Mary's and its students that doesn't get into any other publication at the school. There is no other forum that the stu­dents can use to express their beliefs, angers. and dreams." 
Inside the silksereen cover, don't expect to find a homoge­
neous table of contents. The 
poems, stories, and artwork 
reveal thoughtful, and some­
times controversial, views of life. The depth and complexity of the pieces reflect the writing ability of many students. West­ler is pleased with the art as well, and said that it is very im­
pressive and a positive reflec­tion on the Saint Mary's art de­partment. 
The "Chimes" office is already taking submissions for the 1991 issue. English majors are not the only ones attracted to the possibility of appearing in a professional magazine. Anyone who likes to express something through words or pictures can contribute. Although "Chimes" is mainly for Saint Mary's stu­dents, local and national writ­ers, Notre Dame students, and faculty and staff members' work have appeared in the past. 
All submissions are presented to the editorial board, which is comprised of ten to fifteen members. "The board looks for interesting, well-written pieces that make you think," Renaldi said. A reader will not find a cute, trite, or sappy story in any issue. 
Renaldi is impressed with the discriminating board members who select appropriate mate­rial. Both Westler and Renaldi speak emphatically about the editorial board and describe it as a satisfying experience. 
Most of the submissions are handed in during the second semester. That is when the real work begins. All of the mem­bers read and study every piece 


The Multicultural Council is presenting an Ireland Series this weok. "Playing Catch-up With Europe: Peace In Ireland" is intended to highlight some of the complex issues that face Ireland. The week will include various panel discussions and an lrish Feast with entertainment provided by Irish singer John Kennedy. 
Issue: Irish Americanism Speaker(s): Prof. Jay P. Dolan, History; Prof. William A. O'Rourke. Assoc. Professor, Engllsh; Bro. Donal Leader, Graduate Student When: Monday, Oct. 8, 7 p.m. Where: Theodore's 
Issues: Sources of Ireland's Trouble Speaker(s): Fr. Ernan McMullin, Professor and Cardinal John O'Hara Chair, Philosophy; Prof. John J. Gilligan, Professor and Dirm:tor, Institute for International Peace Studies; Prof. Cornelius O'Boyle, VIsiting Professor, Program of Uberal Studies; Prof. John J. Collins, Professor, Theology When: Tuesday, Oct. 9, 7 p.m. Where: Theodore's 
Issue: The Possibilities for Peace in Northern Ireland Speaker(s): Most Rev. Edward Daly, Roman Catholic Bishop, Derry, Northern Ireland; Rt. Rev. Dr. James Mehaffey, Anglocan Bishop of Derry and Haphore, Northern Ireland; Rev. Margaret L. Johnson. Northern Ireland Working Group When: Wednesday, Oet. 10, 4 p.m. Where: 121 Law School 
Issue: Irish Feast and Reception for guests from N. Ireland Forum: Dinner/Buffet and Reception SpMker{s): Singer and Dancers: John Kennedy and the Sheamusin When: Wednesday, Oct. 10, 6 p.m. Where: Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall **Make reservations by calling Student Government 239-7668. 
Issue: "Paddy's Payback: The American Impact on Ireland" Speaker{s): Dennis Clark When: Thursday, Oct. 11, 4:15p.m. Where: Hesburgh Library Lounge 
candidness of "Chimes." Censorship is not taken into account. Westler and Renaldi agree that no one has the judgment to decide what someone should or shouldn't read. "Chimes" respects the intelligence of the students and offers a kaleidoscope of ideas. 
Renaldi and the other board members have a busy year of selecting pieces, contacting au­thors to make any changes, scaling artwork to fit a page, and preparing the magazine for Ave Maria Publishing. The final product captures an often hid­den aspect of campus life that doesn't receive enough recogni­tion. 
"'Chimes' is an important magazine," Renaldi stated matter-of-factly. "It showcases the creativity and talent of Saint Mary's women and exposes the uniqueness of some of the women here. 'Chimes' captures what yearbooks cannot." 
Westler's only regret is that the size of the magazine does not enable them to publish all of the material they'd like to. But the confidence in what is published is high. Westler al­ways keeps extra copies of '­Chimes handy to give to visitors and well-known artists who come to Saint Mary's. 
"When people visit the cam­pus, they usually have a good impression of the school by the atmosphere and talking to a few students," Westler con­cluded. "'Chimes' goes way be­yond the surface of subjects. Readers realize the wide variety of things going on and the maturity and wisdom of these women." 
before the meetings and come together to discuss and debate what should make the cut. Westler finds the meetings particularly rewarding because the board members get to know each other well and influence each other's decisions. 
Westler recognizes the value of "coming to a tolerance for a lot of students. The members feel free to disagree. Someone may be shy at the beginning and not say anything, but once 
CHIMES90 
a piece she likes is rejected, she'll speak up next time. Artists have to be free to talk about anything." 
By having many distinct voices, "Chimes" is less likely to publish bad material. Democ­racy makes the process worth doing, Westler smiled. 
Freshmen who are accus­tomed to the restrictions of high school publications may be surprised by the refreshing 
A letter direct from the Rome front . • 
• 

ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN 
accent writer 
Almost every school year, a few weeks after Christmas break, students read The Ob­server's Accent page and find someone's account of their ex­periences abroad. Unfortu­nately, this ends up being a very condensed account of an entire semester of activity. Generally, this is too late to influence any­one to go the following year. 
This article comes to you straight from Rome, home of the Saint Mary's Rome Pro­gram. There are 60 of us, 49 women and 11 men. There are a good number of students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and a few from other schools such as Marquette, Colgate, Catholic University, Boston College, and University of Toronto. 
The program sends us to As­sisi for five days of orientation. We were warned about this_ trip, but I am going to make it a little more clear than previous students ever did. 
If you decide to go next year, plan on spending a lot of time walking up hills during your summer vacation. Prepare yourself or plan on being in a little bit of pain for a day or two. Assisi is not only home of St. Francis but also of many hills and steps. 
Upon arrival in Assisi, we walked uphill for 15 minutes to reach our residence. Remem­ber, that is up steps with carry­on luggage that has everything for a five-day stay. This should have been a sign to us. After every meal there is a climb of about 55 steps back to the res­idence. 
It sounds awful, but everyone agrees it was a wonderful ori­entation experience. Assisi is a beautiful small town. The his­tory surrounds you. Even a three-mile hike (uphill, of course) to the Bremo (hermitage) of St. Francis was worthwhile. 
Those of us who attended mass at the Basilica of St. Francis were given a tour through a monastery that dates back to the 1400s. Talk about a time warp-it is as medieval as you can get! 
As a ND student, I knew only three people in the program prior to the trip. By the end of the orientation everyone was pretty well acquainted with one another. This was done by al­phabetically assigning us to a roommate during our stay in Assisi and creating a system by which everyone sat with differ­ent people at every meal. 
I had a conversation with al­most every person by the end of orientation and felt comfortable with them. Everyone is willing to be open because we have no one else, so to speak. This whole trip is all about new friendships and a new culture. 
At the time of writing this ar­
ticle, I have been in Rome for  
one full week.The city is a lot to  
take in all at once. Assisi pre­ 
pared us well by utilizing the  
Italian we had not spoken since  
May.  
Hotel Tiziano, the women's  
residence, and the Pensione  
Barrett, the men's residence,  
are comfortable. The rules take  
some getting used to, but it is  
not anything dramatic. The  
men join us for meals during the week at the Tiziano, and we  - 
fend for ourselves on the week­ 
ends among the many bars and  
restaurants.  
We really are in the heart of  
Rome-the noise level proves it.  
The Piazza Navona and the  
Pantheon are just a block or  
two away. Even in our first weekend here people have  - 
heard the pope say mass at St.  
Peter's, and some of the guys  
saw him as they walked around  
outside a few days before.  
Everything seems very dra­ 
matic, whether it is getting mail or noticing another cultural  - 
difference. Italians can pick us  
out of a crowd by our tennis  
shoes, and we recognize Ital­ 
ians by their jeans, which are  
either hemmed or worn as  
floods. Every site is awe-inspiring at  - 
first glance. Every conversation  
with an Italian is triumphant,  
even when we stumble and  
grasp for the right words. We  
just continue to try because  
"when in Rome ..."  
- 


UA! 
----~-----~-~-----·----------------·-··--------------------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give Need two tickets to NO vs. USC NO Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn
\ NOTICES One Way Flight to NY-La Guar 
hundreds of employers game, student or GA's. Call Betsy St. Call Jeff Walsh collecl (602) I NEED 1 MIAMI STUO!I KATHY Leave 10/20 after Miami game 7:50 
(including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank at x3899. 257-5971, X1704$ PM. Price negot. 
One, the Federal Reserve, II am-8pm, M-F. 
Call Jim x1858Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, MIAMI TIX; need 1 student; 

TYPING AVAILABLE I need 2 Penn St. tix: G.A. or stud. 
Procter & Gamble, and Random call Bill x3300 TOP$ for Your Ga tix to all home
287-4082 Call John F. x 1622 Dave,
House) access to your resume games call 277-9357 GOOD LUCK on your exams and
through Targeted Recruiting Wealthy Alumni Patty
NOW OPEN! BED & BREAKFAST 4 sale:Miami & AF tixs. 4905 interviews this week Ill 
Rooms available for all N/0 Services (TRS). Only $10 before Desparately Need Love, Anne
Oct. 15th. For your free enrollment MiamiTix AIR FORCE TIX; need 1 student; 
events. IDEAL for family/ Need Air Force Tix. Students or 
fans/ business associates kit plus a free Corporate Profiles Call Tim x2015 call Chris x3372 G.A.s Call Paul at 1755 THE SHIRT THE SHIRTMagazine, describing opportunites $$$$$$$$$$$$from out-of-town. Minutes THE SHIRT
at the nation's leading employers, 1111111111111111111111111 ••1 am willing to SELL111••
from N/0 & toll road exit #83. I COULD REALLY USE A PENN Faculty Faculty Faculty 
219-273-0388/1-800-669-call 1-800-TRS·JOBS. 2 MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE ST. TICKET-STUD or GA-call Graduate Students & 
2 Miami GA's. Call Mary at 50 YRD. LINE -TO HIGHEST
0388 ALYSSA x3822 Undergrad Students who want THE OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. (603)889-0368 & make offer. BIDDER BY THURSDAY 277-8379 
-----------------------·-------------SHIRT can still buy them at the
Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, CALL LATE.
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 

AIR FORCE STUD TICK FOR SALE SUB Secretary's desk on the 2nd 237-1949 
Corona Del Mar CA 92625. NEED MIAMI STUD. TIX 1111111111!1111111!!111!! 
X1511 Floor of LaFortune! They make great Christmas Gifts Medical, sports, or exercise CALLX3224 I NEED FOUR (4) PENN STATE
JUSTSAYNOI NEED MIAMI & PSU GA'S AND and can also be bought at the
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's oriented person needed part­GA'S FOR MY LONG-LOST UNCLE PSU STUD. CALL 1511 Stanford Pep Rally!!
Books, corner of NO ave. & time to assist with patients NEED 1 MIAMI STUD OR GA AND COUSINS. IF YOU CAN HELP Howard. 233-2342 in sports/orthopaedic physical CALL TONY 271-1873 MY NOV. 16 REUNION, CALL NEED-~-AiR_F_ORCE-GA:S~-MONE'i (GATE 3 of ACC) therapy clinic. Call JEFF 0. AT X 1068. THANKS 
NOT A CONSIDERATION. 
Maura at 277-9901. SELLING STUD TIX GO IRISH BEAT CARDINAL!
SMC-ND students--summer RONX1913 programs London (May 22-June to home games HELPI NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S THE SHIRT 
21) and Rome (June 16-July 15). WANTED: Enthusiastic individual 239-8232 AND 1 OR 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SELLING STUD TIX THE SHIRT THE SHIRT 
Travel in Ireland, Scot., Eng., or student organization to promote after 5pm 273-9209 POOR RELATIVES! to all home games France, Ger., Switz.. and Italy. Spring Break destination for 1991. leave b.o. syd . CALL KEVIN X1589 HELP I NEED A RIDE 
up to 4 adj. MIAMI 
Courses in art, bus. and econ., Earn commissions, free trips and (day) 239-8232 MIAMI U. OR CINCY valuable work experience. Apply For Sale: 3 MIAMI Stud. tix. Best TH. OCT 11 OR FRI. OCT 12
educ., Italian, justice ed., his!. and WANTED: ONE OR TWO NO­(night) 273-1905 
now!! I Call offer. 284-5152 or 284-5115 MIAMI TICKETS. CALL MRS. EDX1167
soc. Meeting Oct. 15 7:00pm 273-1723 Carroll Hall (SMC). Teachers, T.J. at Student Travel Service 1-MCINTYRE COLLECT (802) ns­slides, former students, pizza, 800-265-1799. 4 STUD. TIX/ALL HOME GAMES 4553. i have all the home game tix GOING TO OR THROUGH 
etc. For info call Prof. A.A. Black to sale ;call chen #2803. 
MAKE OFFER: 287-9731 KNOXVILLE, TN -OCT. BRK­
284-4460 (office) 272-3726 GOING TO DAYTON AFTER THE NO GRAD and wife from Calif. AFTER MIAMI?? I NEED A MIAMI GAME? PLEASE LET ME I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S NEED 2 Tickets to N.D. Miami RIOE;WILL SHARE $$ CALL
(home). We have tickets to all COME! MARY X2671 call Andi x4189 Game. Call Collecl (818) 591-X1511
HOME games I I 2625. Earn $300 to $500 per week WANTED: One student ticket ROCKIN' AT THE ROCK
call Estevan or Ritchie Reading Books at home. Call for Air Force. Call 3022 and NEED STANFORD TICKIOTS. 
@2275
LOST/FOUND 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. name your price. PLEASE CALL DAVE (70111 n5-BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 03451!1 EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING Need two Air Force stud. or rrn 301 7pm mon. at the ROCK BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS, G.A.'s Please call Mike x4051 NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA. CALL
****** REWARD"'******* 

277-9406 AND ASK FOR JACKIE. MI-AM-I in need of Miami THANK YOU , ST. JUDEMy license was lost/stolen last JAMACIA AS PART-TIME 
Two Chicks Need Your Tix: tix. stud. & GA's x4274
9/20 at The Commons. I need it CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING 2 Stanford Stud. 
back so I can write checks, drink BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786 
5 Air Force Stud. PRETTY please ...Sell me your
etc .... NEED MIAMI GAs & STUD JOE
Please call Jen and Kristin GA's to any home games. I need 4-WHATS A GORCH?
It is a Pennsylvania license. I need 2 PITT GA's for my Dad's X1761
X4827 .9. $$ call Paula @ 4096
PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the birthday present. If you can help, Video games colorful and new,name on the ID) with ANY call Julie X4571 
NEED 2 PENN ST GA's & NEED MIAMI GA'S Pool tables a brilliant blue, 
information. 288-0597 PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED. 
STUDENT TICKETS. DIANE 273-9469 Smiling workers to help you,
---. NEED 5 EITHER STUD. OR GA No, we don't have Miami tix. 
FOUND: PACKET OF FAMILY EITHER SINGLE OR IN A BLOCK. 
For Sale: 1 MIAMI St. Tix.
FOR RENT

PHOTOS WITH TRISH ON BACK WILLING TO PAY THE BIG 30-35 Yd. Line. Call JJ x1619 Come play with us...
OF THEM OUTSIDE OF HURLEY CALL STEVE @1453 BUCKSII CALL JEFF @ #4352 THEGORCHGAMESROOMON MONDAY. CALL SHARON 239­HAVE A.F. stud. tix.Need Miami IN LAFORTUNE6370 OR GO TO 225 HAYES­NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S stud .Will trade +cash.Respond by
HEALY TO CLAIM. 1991-1992 Reserve your Need 2 MIAMI GA'S-call John 11 pm Weds.Callx2336 or x3709. What else are you going to do,
6,5,4, or 2 bedrrn house. CALL X3797 x1220 study?
FOUND: JACKET IN FRESHMAN Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­THIS IS A CATHOLIC
RESOURCE CENTER. CLAIM AT 5653 NEEDED: 2 AIRFORCE GAs UNIVERSITY -GOD OF THUNDER:
SECURITY IN OLD ROTC BLDG. HELP I'M STUCKIIIIIIIIIII FOR GRANDPARENTS HELP THE NEEDY -"This is the hardest of all: 
STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991-92 CALL MARY X1727 NEED 2 miami GAs & 1 stud to close the open hand of FOUND: SILVER RING IN SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK ...with 2 married student tickets for HAVE MERCY!!! love." --Nietzsche
LIBRARY. CALL WITH GLORE 232-1776. MIAMI. Yeah, MIAMI -no 10 
MIKI 284-4386 If even the breath of love 
DESCRIPTION 234-5140. required. best offer call: is to much weight for the
a studio apartment in lovely STANFORD STUD TIX FOR SALE 
NEED: 4 AF GA's. Call Tracy 273-rose to bear, it must be
I lost a navy blue windbreaker old mansion near N. D. 255 plus Amy 272-8954 CALL427611 
9033. silenced.
at Club 23 last Wednesday. If deposit ; please call 2888595 you found it, please call me HAVE 2 MIAMI MARRIED HELP!! I need 1 Airforce GA! 
$$$$$$$$cashiche$$$$$$$$$$ test textat 289-3467. Ask for John. Large 3000 Sq. Ft. home in quiet STUDENT TICKETS AND/OR Willing to pay $$$$$$$$$. 
I need 2 Miami G.A.'s-Name your Farminton Sq. 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3 LOTS OF$$$ TO TRADE FOR KarenX3847 miserable price. Fred#1852
REo•••REo•••REo•••REo••• 112 baths, 2 family rooms with 4 PENN STATE GA' S. CALL jacket lost at stanford barn plenty of room. Professors or 277-9869. $ 
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME
dance...also mature students welcome. 272­
$ 

BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S
RED ground grafic piece from RED 8939. RICH ALUM FROM SEATTLE $ CALL 273-1364 
car in D-2 lot... PRETTY PLEASE NEEDS FOUR AIR FORCE G.A.'S MIAMI AND AIR FORCE WITH SUGAR ON TOP, RETURN roommate wanted to share two WILL PAY. GUS (206) 624-7990, STUDENT TIX FOR SALE 
I need MIAMI TIX
THEM Ill X-4096 bedroom house. two minutes from 789-3497, COLLECT IF BEST OFFER -Chris 234-8891ask for PAULA. campus. 2730087 NECESSARY. CALL JOE 233-4065 
$ 

I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain I NEED 4 A.F. TIX CALL X3758 $ Karen x4806
bracelet on Stepan Football $ NEED PITTSBURGH GA's
field. GREAT Sentimental 

Value. If found, please _I TICKETS CALL MATT #1159 •"WE NEED Air Force GA's!; contact Cara at x3847. 
&WE have SIAN. stud. tix (2) 
FOR SALE
WILL SELL AF MIAMI PENN STUD Can buy, trade or sell or mixI REALLY NEED 2 MIAMI G.A.'sll 
TIX TO BEST OFFER X4823,4819 call: 289-6046 or 233-3973LOST AT THE PUTTING GREEN: good $$$-call Jacquie @ x4986 A Hogan Sl sandwedge x1930 
2srANFo-~AiR-FoRcErix FoR FoR sALE: 12-inch Black & White Need $$$?Sell SALE 272-6459 Portable TV!!! Excellent condition. 
NEED ONE MIAMI TIXII COME 
ON, I'LL BE YOUR BEST FRIEND. 
your ga's to all Call x1208 and leave a message
CALL2545.
-
for Paul. Will take best offer 
home games. OVALS BEHIND STEPEN MIAMITIX 
LOST: A SET OF 4 KEYS ON THE 

Call tom x1597. ------------------------------------before midnight, Oct. 12th. 
I need one AF stud ticket CALL ANDREW AT 14171! HELP! This means YOU. I need Call X2169 with best offer Call Mary X2549 
CENTER. IF FOUND PLEASE Have 2 Stud. TOGETHER 
IS IT TRUE...JEEPS FOR $44 two GA's for Miami game. Will pay 
THROUGH THE U.S. GOVT? CALL FOR FACTS!
Lost: 2 keys on a plain ring btwfl $, exchange with Purdue tix and/or o/o0/o 0/oo/o o/oo/o o/o0/o oshag-G(llvin-NDH hotel reservations for any game. MIAMI STUDS FOR SALE 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840 
please call x2661 if found Amy 1289. HELP: I need a Miami GA. Will pa~ CALL NOW 2546 SMALL DAY BED WITH BACK
$$$$$$$$1 Call Matt X1055 or3028 
Need 2 Air Force GA's call Ofo% %0/o OfoOfo CUSHIONS, 29 x 72. EXCELLENT
Guess? WATCH FOUND 10/2 at Stepan Fields. Call Amy Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or 
FOR STUDENT. $65.272-6194. 
GA Please call Matt X3024 I need lots of AIR FORCE GAs & PENN ST studs. Lynne x2687 x1343 and describe it. 
I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S FORi Have Penn St. Students MOST GAMES CALL GIVE NAME
Need Miami GAs & Studs
best offer 273-1364 

-3AME AND PRICE 273-1364
Mike 273-1537 MIAMI TIX FOR SALE 
$$$$$ PROUD SMC POP NEEDS 3

WANTED 'ELLOW 18 CU. FT
Need Miami stud tix DAVE X3024 for brothers, Dan x1795 TIX TO NO/MIAMI GAME. WILL lEFRIGERATOR--NO PROBLEMSPAY$. CALL WIL-217/223-9609. 
FOR SALE: 50 CALL 287-2587 
Need: Tickets for all remaining home games. 
BABYSITTER WANTED: Looking NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIII!I 
for someone to watch 2 small children in my home. 4-8 hours a JUST WON THE LOTTERY----­
TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES! Call Joe X1688
week.(flexible) wage negotiable. PERSONALS 
CALL JOE X1688 Mon.-Thurs. 3:30-6:30 PM
Transportation required. I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!II 
-Monday-Thursday SPRING BREAK 1991 -Individual PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE 
3:30-6:30 2 Miami Ga's to sell hiag or student organization needed to Call John after 6P.M. at ------------------------------------­promote Spring Break trip. Earn CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 
I NEED TIX TO ANY GAMEIll (703) 528-8288. Art, money, free trips and valuable CALL SHARON 284-5089 You don't need a Jaguar. 
NEED AIR FORCE, MIAMI,
work experience. CALL NOW!! I I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S ·-the girl of your dreams. Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-X1639 I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME PENN STATE TICKETS ---------------------------------­GAMES.272-6306 CALL 234-7644 dave glenn does dishes 
327-6013. ··-----------------------------------need one or two PENN STATE -------------------------------------GAs. Call monica at 283-4021. 
-
I Need GA's for I NEED AIR FORCE G.A.s FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + 
AIR FORCE, MIAMI, and CALL X3501 CASH! JAMAICA I BAHAMASI Sell WANTED: NEWSPAPER 
PENN STATE. Also need stud. for ;:······:····:··---------------------t~ps on your campus and earn free CARRIERS. CALL SEAN @ 3068 Have 2 great AF ga's. Need 2 PSU & Miami. PLEASE call Beth at 1 Mtamt stud (sec. 30) for sal• tnp for you plus bonus cash I Call FOR INFO Miami ga. Trade or Sell. Call 1603. 288-0597 x1632 FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-31361 
-----------·-----------·-------------.........: ..................:.. ........~~-:-::...!....: ..:....~ •.· ­
sdgf Valentines 

YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE MENTALLY Ill TO SUFFER FROM MENTAL ILLNESS 
Mothers, fathers, sons, daugh­ters, wives, husbands-family members of all kinds-suffer when someone they love is mentally ill. If a loved one's mental illness is troubling you, we invite you to join a local family-to-family support group. 

Indiana Alliance for the Mentally Ill P.O. Box 501216 Indianapolis, IN 46250-1216 (317) 923-6442 1-800-677-6442 
Affiliated with the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill 


Monday, October 8, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Pittsburgh offense comes alive in win over Charaers ­
Yes,  sir,  the  Pittsburgh  Scormg the toucnoowns even  This time, Steve Tasker broke  
Steeiers' offense  can  find  the  made the dour Walton smile.  in  untouched  to  block  Jeff  
end zone.  Not surprisingly,  so  His new offense had been criti­ Gosset's punt. James Williams  
can the Bengals and Rams.  cized by fans, media and even  grabbed the ball and went 38  
The Steclers did it four times  some players, but coach Chuck  yards for the winning TD with  
Sunday,  ending  a  streak  of  Noll stood by the former Jets  6:52 left.  
touchdown  futility dating  to  coach.  The Bills were down 24-14  
last season's playoffs. Bubby Brister threw two second-quar­ "Joe came up to me and said, 'Good job, big man,"' Green  before James Lofton caught a 42-yard touchdown pass from  
ter TD  passes  to  rookie  Eric  said of his TD catches. "We're  Jim Kelly with 8:37 to go. That  
Green as the offense, held with­out a touchdown for 19 quar­ back. I feel more In tune now. I know how the NFL feels."  began 5:03.  a  run  of 24  points  in  
ters, scored three In 17 minutes  The Chargers felt that their  After Williams put Buffalo  
and four overall In a 36-14 vic­ fifth-ranked defense could con­ ahead, Bennett forced and  re­ 
tory over San Diego.  tinue  Pittsburgh's unenviable  covered  a  fumble  by  Jay  
Green scored from eight and  streak. Not only couldn't they  Schroeder on the next posses­ 
one yard out, and Warren Williams and Barry Foster each had 2-yard runs for Pittsburgh. Boomer Eslason passed for 471 yards, outdueling Jim  do that, they couldn't stop the Steelers from rolling over them. "It was embarassing," said linebacker Gary Plummer, who scored a first-quarter touch­ sion. The Bills got Scott Norwood's 23-yard field goal with 4:07 left, then sewed it up when Nate Odomes stripped the ball from Willie Gault and ran  
Everett, who had 372, as Clncinati beat the Los Angeles Hams 34-31. Cincinnati blew a 21-0 lead, then won on Jim  down on offense when he caught a 2-yard pass on a tackle-eligible play. "It was a lack of confidence, as far as  49 yards for a touchdown. Buffalo (4-1) has scored 44 points in the fourth quarter of its last two comeback wins. The  
Breech's 44-yard field goal with 3:04 left In overtime. Playing without Eddie Brown, their top receiver, the Bengals  I'm concerned. There's no en­thusiasm on defense, and If you don't have enthusiasm, that re­flects on your confidence. I  Raiders (4-1) had allowed just 35 points heading Into the game.  
got 100-yard receiving days from Rodney Holman (10 for 161 yards), Tim McGee (eight for 142) and James Brooks (seven for 109). For Los Angeles, Flipper Anderson caught seven passes for 144 yards and Henry Ellard was seven for 100.  don't understand it. That's as flat as we've ever been." The Steelers were stoked by the unveiling of a a 7 -foot statue of team founder Art Rooney outside the stadium. "That brought out a lot of the spirit in the team," Dwayne Woodruff said. "We felt the  Bears 27, Packers 13 At Chicago, Mike Tomczak's 6-yard touchdown run on a bootleg play and field goals of 50 and 51 yards by Kevin Butler were decisive as the Bears took control of the NFC Central lead at 4-1.  
The Colts and Seahawks kept  Chief was with us today. We felt  Neal Anderson  rushed  21  
It going, winning their second  he was right there on the side­ times for 141 yards, with a 52­ 
straight after losing their first  lines with us."  yard run to set up the final TD.  
three games. Indianapolis sur­ Green Bay (2-3) lost for  a  
prised Kansas City 23-19 and Seattle rallied past New England 33-20. Also coming back for victories were Atlanta, 28-27 over New  Bengals 34, Rams 31, OT Breech's winning kick came at the end of a 63-yard, eight­play drive. Esiason started the drive from his 12 with a 22­ second time in four weeks to the Bears. The Bears led 10-6 late In the third quarter when Richard Dent recovered a fumble on the  
,  Orleans; San Francisco, which set an NFL mark with Its 12th consecutive road win, 24-21 at Houston; Detroit, a 34-27 win­ncr at Minnesota; Dallas, which  yard pass to Harold Green. He hit McGee for 27, Brooks for nine and then the Bengals played it safe, setting up Breech.  Green Bay 17. Three plays later, Tomczak skirted right end on his touchdown run. He had replaced starter Jim AP Photo Harbaugh, who left late In the  
took  Tampa Bay  14-10;  and  Mike Lansford's 40-yard field  The Pittsburgh Stealers' offense scored four touchdowns in a 36-14first half with injured ribs. victory over San Diego yesterday.  
Miami, a 20-16 victor against the New York Jets.  goal with 1:36 game at 31.  left  tied  the  Colts  23, Chiefs  19  come  back that way  was  an  It  was  Montana's  third  
Chicago beat Green Bay 27-13  Earlier,  Esiason  had  ·rD  At Indianapolis, the Colts won  outstanding performance."  touchdown pass  as  he earlier  
and, in  a  night game, It  was  passes of 27 and nine yards to  their  second  straight  after  hit Taylor with a 78-yarder and  
Buffalo 38, the Raiders 24. On  Brooks, and 14 yards to Green.  opening  with  three  defeats.  Seahawks  33, Patriots  20  threw six yards to Jerry Rice.  
Monday night, Cleveland Is at Denver. Four NFC East teams -the Hcdskins, Eagles, Giants and Cardinals-had byes. Stealers 36, Chargers 14 "We came together today as an offense, but this Isn't where we stop," said Merrll Hogc, who had 78 yards on 14 car­ries. "We voted Joe (Walton, the beleaguered offensive coor­dinator) the only game ball be­cause we want to show we're behind him and we know what he's going through. We're get­ting confidence In this and we've to keep it  Everett combined with Damone Johnson for a 9-yarder and Anderson for 55. The victory followed six days of controversy surrounding the Bengals after coach Sam Wyche barred a woman reporter from the team's locker room in Seattle. Bills 38, Raiders 24 At Buffalo, the Bills had lightning strike for the second straight week. Last week, a blocked field goal that was re­turned 80 yards for a touch­down by Cornelius Bennett sparked the Bills over Denver.  Albert Bentley won it with a tO­yard run with 5:53 to go for his second touchdown. Nick Lowery kicked four field goals and Derrick Thomas had four of seven sacks by Kansas City (3-2) against Jack Trudeau. But Christian Okoye's fumble set up the winning touchdown midway through the final period. Mike Prior recovered at the Chiefs' 21. After a 4-yard gain by Trudeau and a 7-yard pass to Stacey Simmons, Bentley ran in for the touchdown. "It was a magnificent win for us," coach Ron Meyer said. To  After New England took its only lead, 20-19 on Jason Staurovsky's 48-yard field goal, visiting Seattle rallied in the fi­nal three minutes with two touchdowns in 24 seconds. Dave Krieg found Jeff Chadwick with a 45-yard scor­ing pass and Derrick Fenner added a 5-yard run for his sev­enth TD this year. Seattle (2-3) scored on its first four possessions. New England (1-4} got a 53-yard field goal from Staurovsky that tied Gino Cappelletti's team record.  Montana finished with 318 yards, completing 20 of 28 passes. Taylor caught four passes for 132 yards and Rice had 78 yards on six receptions. Hoger Craig set a record for career receptions by a running back with 494 for San Francisco (4-0). Warren Moon had two touch­down passes and sneaked in a yard for another score for Houston (2-3). Lions 34, VIkings 27 At Minneapolis, the Lions turned to Bob Gagliano and he turned in a terrific performance  -­ 

CCWQ.I!./1TVtATfcW5 /o 7Rt. ARST LAP( op 
6~1/vfM.tNb, V'N/E7£VAN'~ ON 5#rr/£!?.1t/cr 7ftE. 
f/oLF3 ~fJC, C:f)olr£.1<. Pea. f<i_c.C¥<;:> IN' 71{£. lat>·>V "P"Ilti.S-rjLE.. /f£1< <f."'I/. 7'1 4./i5 ;g,J :5I£. FAs"'a<. 71-IIW 7f/£ tJLP MN,Id 
-~­

..:.~.~­
~~---~~ 
,:'. 

Falcons 28, Saints 27 In place of injured starter At Atlanta, Chris Miller Rodney Peete. capped his best day in the NFL Gagliano passed for 299 with a 3-yard touchdown pass yards and three touchdowns as Detroit (3-2) dropped the
to Andre Rison with 1:33 re­
Vikings into the NFC Central
maining, snapping the Falcons' 
cellar.
six-game losing streak against 
Minnesota is off to its first 1­
the Saints. Before the score, 
4 start since 196 7, has lost Its
Miller twice hit Rison on 
last two at home to division ri­
fourth-down plays to keep alive 
vals after 13 straight wins In
the 80-yard drive. 
Miller completed 23 of 44 the Metrodome and fell to the Lions for the first time since
passes for 366 yards and three 
touchdowns. Rison had 10 Jerry Burns' debut as coach, 
catches for 154 yards and two ending a string of seven Vikings 
scores for Atlanta (2-2). wins. John Fourcade, fighting to Gagliano had TD passes of 22 
keep his job as quarterback, yards to Barry Sanders, five to 
passed for two touchdowns and Richard Johnson and 16 to 
ran for another for the Saints Terry Greer. 
(1-3}. Steve Walsh, acquired 
from Dallas late last month, 
did not play for New Orleans. Cowboys 14, Bucs 1 0 ­At Dallas, the Cowboys sur­49ers 24, Oilers 21 passed their victory total of At Houston, the Super Bowl last season as rookie Emmitt 
champions benefitted from a Smith rushed for 121 yards and 
timeout called by the Oilers de­scored on a fourth-quarter, 14­
fense that negated a turnover. yard run. Smith's yardage was ­
Joe Montana then completed a the most by a Dallas running 

46-yard TD pass to John back since Herschel Walker 
Taylor for the winning points gained 134 yards against 
with 6:31 left. Cleveland on Dec. 4. 1988. 
page 16 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 
-
·4f% 
Photographers: ·Matt Mittino, Kenneth 0 .· Dave Short 

Right. A deep thigh bruise kept Irish flanker Raghib Ismail out of action against the Cardinal. 
Far right. Notre Dame's Adrian Jarrell holds on for a big gainer. 
The ball bounces away from Notre Dame tight end Derek Brown on the last play of Stanford's 36-31 victory over the Irish. If Brown had held on to this 23-yard Rick Mirer toss in the left corner of the endzone the Irish would have pulled off yet another miraculous comeback. 
Notre Dame defensive linemen Chris Zorich (50) and Williams celebrate their sack of Cardinal quarterback Jason Palumbis. 

Left. Junior Irish split end Tony Smith hangs on to the ball for the second of his two touchdowns. 
Above. Cardinal fullback Tommy Vardell dives across the line of scrimmage and into the endzone. Vardell only carried five times in

-
the game, but four of those carries went for touchdowns. 
Right. Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer dives forward and reaches across the goal line to give his team a 7-0 first quarter 

-
lead. 



-------~-----~---­
-~-~-----­
Monday, October 8, 1990 The Observer page 17 
and let the ball hit his raised and I tried to get him the ball."
for 60 yards. The biggest pass 
hands and fall to the ground. was a completion over the mid­McCaffrey caught six passes 
Four plays and 1:48 later, the dle to tight end Cory Booker, for 111 yards.
Loss How 
continued from page 24 fullback Vardell scored the who evaded Lyght and continued from page 24 Even senior All-American 
disastrous. It's just a game of third of his four touchdowns on scampered down the sidelines nose guard Chris Zorich hurt 
inches. They made the big the day, making the score 31-for a 25-yard gain. Irish. A defensive unit can be­them. Zorich, who played sen­
plays. We didn't." 29 Notre Dame with 0:17 left in After the touchdown, Green come demoralized if it stops a sationally otherwise, let his Notre Dame turnovers on the third quarter. called for a two-point attempt, drive and forces a punt, and worst vice-overaggression­punts resulted in 14 points for The last fumble, committed and Palumbis delivered with a then has to come right back on get the best of him against the Cardinal. Both Holtz and by Watters with the score still short pass to Ed McCaffrey, the field after the punt return Stanford for one play. His 15­senior Ricky Watters attributed 31-29, occurred in the fourth who outstretched his arm and team screws up. When this yard penalty for unnecessary part of the reason for so many quarter with 11:45 left. barely put the ball over the line happens three times, the results roughness allowed the Cardinal fumbles to the strong wind, Stanford recovered, marched as he was being tackled by can be disastrous, and the op­a second chance after which reached up to 30 mph on down the field to the Notre Lyght. The score made it 24-15 posing team is going to run up linebacker Mike Stonebreaker the day. Dame 20, but failed to convert and Stanford was back into the a lot of points. had dropped fullback Tommy In the first quarter, senior a 37 -yard field goal. game. The weakness of the Irish Vardell for a loss on third and 
Watters dropped the first of The Cardinal did not squan­In the fourth quarter, secondary further handicapped four in the second quarter. 
what would be two botched der many other scoring oppor­Palumbis converted on four of the Irish defense. It seemed After the penalty gave Stanford 
punt returns when the ball hit tunities. Palumbis, leading a six third down situations, that every time the Cardinal a first down, the Cardinal drove 
his face mask and jersey, San Francisco 49ers-style of­passing for three and running were in a third-and-long situa­for their second touchdown. 
bouncing to the covering fense with many screens and for another. The near-clinching tion, they threw to cornerback And last, but certainly not 
Tommy Vardell. short pass plays, completed 26 play occurred when Palumbis Reggie Brooks's side of the least, the Irish gamebreaker 
One play later, Stanford tail­of 34 passes (.760) for 256 had excellent protection and field. Brooks had 14 tackles in sat out the game. Ismail was 
back Glyn Milburn cut toward yards against a sagging and completed a 26-yard pass up the game. When a cornerback sorely missed on the punt re­
the outside past defensive occasionally confused Irish the middle to a wide-open makes that many tackles, it is a turn team, and one can't help 
tackle Bob Dahl, past corner­secondary. McCaffrey. That brought the good indication that the ball is but think that if he had been 
back Reggie Brooks and into "We just weren't making the ball down to the Notre Dame coming his way much too often. able to perform he would have 
the end zone from nine yards plays," said senior cornerback five with less than a minute left To Brooks's credit, he did somehow managed to come up 
out to even the score at 7-7 Todd Lyght, who was back in the game. draw a difficult assignment. with a big play that might have 
with six minutes left in the from a pulled hamstring after "We've been through these "(Brooks) is a good player," carried Notre Dame over the 
top.
quarter. sitting out for the Michigan kind of games before and we've said Cardinal quarterback 
The second Irish punt debacle State and Purdue games. "They come out on top," said Mirer, Jason Palumbis, "but when So that, in a nutshell, is how occurred late in the third quar­were plays that are up to the referring to the Michigan and you've got a guy like Ed it happened. Take a confident, ter when Cardinal punter Paul secondary to make. It's not an Michigan State come-from-be­McCaffrey who is 6-6 and runs underrated Stanford team, Stonehouse kicked the ball specific guy's fault. Just a hind wins. "Those things go a 4.5 (40-yard dash) and has a throw in a few fumbled punts short to Adrian Jarrell, who breakdown of the whole sec­through your mind, but we 38-inch vertical leap, you can't and missed coverages, a key was positioned halfway be­cover him. Nobody can. They penalty, and an injured star,
ondary." can't dwell on those things. We 
tween the line of scrimmage and you have the recipe for an
With 6:30 left in the second came out, played our type of tried to play us with some man 
upset. But remember, don't lose
and the punt returner Watters. quarter and Stanford down 24-game and just came up a little coverages and two-deep zones, Jarrell, circling under the ball 7, Palumbis led a 10-play, 80-short, and that's too bad for and that left Ed open in the any sleep over it. It is only a 
near midfield, twisted his body yard drive in which he passed us. We'll be back." middle and down the sidelines game. 
Holtz dejected after his most disappointing loss 
By KEN TYSIAC whatever it was (actually 3bJ­much like the one the 'Niners Glyn Milburn, it makes my job a In Ismail's absence, the other 
Associate Sports Editor well, we've got to go back and have used to win two straight lot easier." Irish receivers showed what 
look at it." Super Bowls. The Cardinal ••• they could do. Junior split end 
Notre Dame's 36-31 loss to The Irish haven't given up 36 players like to believe that they One player who could have Tony Smith was particularly 
Stanford took its toll on Irish points since they defeated USC can be as successful with that made Holtz's job a lot easier impressive, as he became the 
coach Lou Holtz. After the 38-37 on Nov. 29, 1986 in offense as San Francisco has. was junior flanker Raghib first Notre Dame player to 
game Saturday, a dejected Holtz's first year as coach. "I think we have the best of-Ismail. The Irish star suffered catch two touchdown passes in 
Holtz said that he couldn't re­They haven't given up that fensive system in the country," a deep thigh bruise three weeks one game since Ricky Watters 
call ever being in a loss which many at home since a 36-32 Cardinal quarterback Jason ago in Notre Dame's 28-24 win caught two in a 41-13 win over 
was as difficult as the defeat at loss to South Carolina on Oct. Palumbis said. "If they (the over Michigan, and he still Air Force on Oct. 22, 1980. 
the hands of the Cardinal in 20, 1984, under Gerry Faust. 49ers) can win Super Bowls hasn't recovered. Smith fmished with five catches 
Notre Dame Stadium. ••• with it, we better be able to win "Rocket Ismail is banged up for 78 yards. 
Holtz was particularly disap­Stanford coach Dennis Green, some big games. Now I'm no and could not practice "I thought our receivers 
pointed with his defense. who was once receivers coach Joe Montana, but I try to im-Wednesday or Thursday," Holtz played exceptionally well," 
"There are going to be under Bill Walsh with the San prove each week, and when you said. "He was hobbled, and he Holtz said. "I think Tony Smith 
changes somewhere," Holtz Francisco 49ers, has developed have talent like (receivers) Ed came up before the game and caught the ball well and com­
said. "You give up 38 points or an offense for the Cardinal McCaffrey, John Pinckney and said he could not handle punts, peted. I thought Shawn Davis, 
Adrian Jarrell, William Pollard, 
••----....---------------------------~~• We could have possibly played 
him, but then again when he'd Ray Griggs, our receivers been banged up the past couple played an outstanding football weeks it probably wasn't in his game from what I saw. There best interest." were a lot of clutch catches by
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
••• them." Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 10, 1990 ­
8:00p.m. 

The Notre Dame Room 
of the Morris Inn 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND'72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. I 
------------·-----------· 
I The Castle & Co. I 
INTERVIEW DATES: I I I 
ACCENT November 15-16, 1990 I Men's Hairstyling I I 
(Information Systems Management) 
I YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, I : WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? I
TIMP November 16, 1990 
I

(Telecommunications) 1 Haircut. Shampoo. Blow Dry & Condition 
I
I
FMDP 

November 15, 1990 
Reg. $15.00 1
I
(Financial Management) 

I .,.. Now $8.50 with 1 
MCEBO ASSOCIATES November 16, 1990 I coupon : ­(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
I MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 1 
I 1
I 272-0312 277-1691 1
Internship information will also be available 
I 

~ 54533 Terrace Lane I
I

An Eq1111l Opporlunlly Employer Across from Martin's I 
··----------------------------------..-A·------------------------­

page 18 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 
--Bayliss disappointed as Cardinal defeat Irish men 
By DAVE MCMAHON While DiLucia was to have 
sophomore Mark Schmidt on their mistakes. Before we Sports Writer played Palmer, the top singles jumped off to a 3-0 lead in the knew it, we had taken the sec­player in the nation, in the first set before losing 6-4, 6-2 ond set and only needed the 
The Notre Dame men's tennis number one singles match, he at number three singles. third to win." team met a formidable oppo­instead faced Alex O'Brien, who "I started off really strong, At number two doubles, Ryan nent on Friday when it faced moved in the Cardinal lineup but he started charging and got Wenger and Paul Anthony fell the top-ranked Stanford due to Stark's recovery from a me off-balance," said Schmidt. in a close match, 6-4, 6-4. Cardinal in an exhibition foot stress fracture. DiLucia "After I lost the first set, I just Sophomore Andy Zurcher, after match. Although head coach would have preferred to play lost my confidence and didn't recovering from a bout with Bob Bayliss feels his team as a the best the Cardinal had to of­play nearly as well as I did in mononucleosis, teamed with whole did not play at the level it fer. the first set." Todd Wilson in a 6-3, 7-6 loss could have, the Irish doubles "I was a little disappointed Irish sophomore Ron Rosas at three doubles. combination of David DiLucia that Stark wasn't able to lost 6-2, 7-5 at number four While the Irish feel they could and Chuck Coleman struck fire play,"said DiLucia, who lost to singles, while freshman Tommy have put on a better showing, in the third set en route to a 5-O'Brien 7-5, 6-3. "I've played North put up a great effort be­playing such a big match early
Chuck Coleman

7, 7-6, 7-5 upset of Jonathan him a few times before and fore falling 7-6, 1-6, 6-4. At in the season should prove to Palmer and Jared Stark, know his game pretty well, but number six singles, sophomore be beneficial. ranked first in the nation. you just have to adjust in situa­around and makes you earn ev­Ryan Lee fell, 6-1, 6-1. "This will definitely build 
The doubles win provided the tions like that." ery point. He doesn't give away In doubles action, DiLucia character," said a pleased sole victory for the Irish, who O'Brien, on of the top 10 anything." and Coleman took advantage of DiLucia. "We play three other entered the match ranked 15th. players in the nation, proved to The rest of the Cardinal sin­sloppy play from the top dou­top five teams later in the sea­
"I'm not satisfied with the be a worthy opponent for gles players provided the Irish bles team in the country. son, so this is going to give us way we played," said Bayliss. DiLucia, ranked 14th. with their toughest competition "We started making more something to build from. "Stanford is a difficult measur­"He didn't have anything too to date. At number two singles, first serves in the second set," Hopefully everything will come ing stick, but I think we can flashy," commented DiLucia. sophomore Chuck Coleman lost said DiLucia. "They gave us together by the time we play play better." "He's pretty consistent all-to Palmer, 6-2, 6-2, while easy points and we capitalized those other matches." 
Irish men's cross country squad wins its own tournament 
By BARBARA MORAN course in 25:07.9 for third Notre Dame Head Coach Joe "We were really surprised Sports Writer place overall. Pittsburgh's Piane was extremely pleased that we won by that much," Keith Dowling took first overall with his team's performance, said O'Connor. "I don't even 
For the first time since 1984, with a time of 25:04.5, and was and expressed surprise that the think that we were favored go­the Notre Dame men's cross followed closely by Edinboro's Irish won by such a wide mar­ing into the meet. We had a country team captured first Chris Rauber, who took second gin. solid team effort." place at the Notre Dame in 25:06.4. Invitational, taking a decisive The Irish placed four runners "We had a good day," said Piane hopes that the strong victory over 17 competitors on in the top ten, including Piane. "When you consider that win will nudge the Irish up a Burke Memorial Golf Course O'Connor. John Coyle took fifth out of the four teams finishing few notches from their current last Friday. overall in 25:40.1, and was fol­behind us two are nationally eight spot in the national rank­
The undefeated Irish won by lowed by teammates Pat ranked (Pitt and Virginia), one ings. He was quick to point out, a large margin, finishing with a Kearns (eighth) and Ryan Cahill is number one in Division 2 however, that rankings matter total of 40 points to second­(ninth). (Edinboro) and one is number less than performance, and place Pittsburgh's 105 points. The Notre Dame B-team was one in Division 3 that the Irish remain focused Rounding out the top five also victorious, winning the (Wisconsin/Oshkosh), you can on their goal of capturing an schools were Virginia (115), Gold race with 89 points, 12 see why we didn't expect to fin­NCAA bid on November 10. Wisconsin/Oshkosh (140), and points away from the second ish so far ahead. It indicates Edinboro University (173). place team. The top Irish fin­that our kids are pretty good." "[Our finish] has to have an 
Senior Captain Mike O'Connor isher for the B-team was Mike O'Connor agreed with his effect on the national rank­crossed the line first for the Drake, who took fourth with a coach about the surprising fin­ings," said Piane. "We went in Irish, completing the five-mile time of 26:39.7 ish. eighth, and hopefully we'll move up. But it doesn't matter what we do now, it's what we do on November 10. There are 35 schools in the district and three get to go to NCAAs; it's pretty cutthroat. But we run as good a schedule as anybody, and hopefully the kids will be hard­ened when it comes time for districts. 
"One nice thing about the weekend," added Piane, "was that it was the Weekend of Champions, and it was nice to come away champions." 
IAMERICAN WCANCER '.SOCIE1Y® 


-
WORLD AWARENESS SERIES 
PLAYING CATCH-UP WITH EUROPE 
Irish Americanism 
(Panel D1acussi.OD) 

Prof. ~~inDolan, Profeasor, ~ 
Prof. A. O'Rourke, PnfeasOr, Assoc. 
Bkssor, EnglishBro. Donal Leade~; Graduate Student 
7:00pm Foster Room 

~~ 
Paddy's Payback: The American Impact on IreJand 
(Lecture) Dennis Carll: 

4:15pm Hesbmgh I.ihrary Lounge Cciopomo.ed bythe Ancient OnkrofHibc:mlans and 1beOlarles and ~Han CushwaCenterforthe Study of American Catbollclsm 
«> 
S1lDEi'n' GoVERNMENT 
GOYfiNMfNT 
•IRISH FEAST• 

and Reception for guests from Northern Ireland 
Dinner /Buffet and Reception Singer and Dancers: John Kennedy and the Shearnusin 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10th 6:00pm Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall 
•Make reservations by Cillling Student Government 2.39-7668 
Sources of Ireland's Trouble 
(Panel Discussion) Fr. Ernan Me Mullin, Professor and Cardinal John O'Hara Chair, Philosophy Prof. John J. Gilligan, Professor and Director, Institute for International Peace Studies Prof. Cornelius 0' Boyle, Visiting Professor, Program of Liberal Studies Prof. John J. Collins, Professor, Theology 
7:00pm Theodores 
WEDNESDAYf'0CTGBER1ZJ.'Offi~:~" ..tu""'-. ;;.:;: ,j The Possibilities for Peace in Northern Ireland 
(Panel Discussion) Most Rev. Edward Daly, Roman Catholic Bishop of Derry. Nothern Ireland Rt. Rev. Dr. James Mehaffey, Anglican Bishop of Derry and Raphore, Nothern Ireland Rev. Margret L. Johnson, Northern Ireland Working Group 
4:00pm 121 Law School 
Cosponsored with the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Center for Civil and Human Rights 




Monday. October 8, 1990 
ND baseball wins one of three from Wichita State 
Special to the Observer 
After defeating 1989 NCAA Champion Wichita State in the first game of a three-game series, the Notre Dame baseball tlmrn fell to the Shockers in the ensuing two, 8-7 Thursday night and 9-3 Friday night. 
On Friday, the Irish allowed four runs in the sixth inning, with thn main damage being a thrnn-run home run by Brian Morrow that landed outside of Covnleski Stadium. Morrow, a frnshman, was 2 for 4 with 4 HBI in the game, with a triple in addition to the horne run. 
Shockers starter Darrin Paxton, who played on Team USA over the summer, earned the win by pitching four shutout innings, allowing one hit and striking out five. Freshman Tom Price suffered the loss. 
Notre Dame did not score un­til the ninth inning, when Frank Jacobs and Pat Leahy walked. Adam Maisano, pinch-hitting for Dan Bautch, singled, load­ing the bases, and Cory Mee followed with a run-scoring base on balls. 
Junior Korey Wrobleski, with the bases still loaded, grounded 
back to the pitcher Matt 
Klusener, who threw to home 
for the force. Then catcher 
Mickey Rusk, attempting to 
double up Wrobleski at first, 
threw wide and high into right 
field, allowing two more Irish 
runs to score. 
On Thursday, after winning the first game of a double­header 4-0, the Irish lost the second, 8-7. 
In the second game, which extended past 1:30 a.m., the Shockers scored the deciding run in the eighth when Notre 
".Dame shortstop Mike Coss committed his third error of the game on a Todd Dreifort ground ball, allowing pinch runner Chris Wimmer to score. 
Sophomore Chris Michalak was the losing pitcher, while Jaime Bluma was the winner. 
Notre Dame had tied the score at seven in the seventh when Bautch singled in Jacobs, who had walked. Wichita State started off the eighth with con­
j 

secutive walks to Jose Ramos 

and Jamey Tarrh. Bosox basher 
AP Photo The Irish were leading 2-0 in Harold Baines of the Oakland A's had two hits and drove in three the fot:rth when Wichita State runs in Oakland's 4-1 victory over Boston. rallied for six runs. 
page 1!:1 

ND loss allows Wolverines to claim top spot 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
Michigan took over the top spot in the National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll released late Sunday evening by three points over Virginia. Thirty schools took part in this week's poll. 
The Wolverines, by virtue of their 41-3 victory over Wisconsin, captured first posi­tion, receiving 14.5 first-place votes and 570.5 total points. The Cavaliers, idle this week, moved up to second with 9.5 first-place votes and 567.5 total points. 
Miami catapulted from ninth to third with its 31-22 win against Florida State; the Hurricanes received one first­place vote and 485 total points. Oklahoma, capturing 458.5 points, jumped from eighth to fourth by beating Oklahoma State 31-17. Auburn and Nebraska received the other first-place votes cast. Last week's top two ranked teams, the Irish (no. 1) and the Seminoles (no. 2) both tumbled seven positions each in this week's survey. 
The bottom half of the survey saw little movement; however, there are two new members of the Top 20. 
The National Collegiate Sportswriters 
Poll, with records, last week's rankings, 
first place votes in parentheses, and 
total points: 
1 (3) Michigan (14.5) 3·1 570.5 
2 (4) Virginia (9.5) 5-0 567.5 
3 (9) Miami, Fla (1) 3·1 485 
4 (8) Oklahoma 5-0 458.5 
5 (5) Auburn (1) 3-0·1 456 
6 (7) Nebraska (4) 5-0 446 
7 (6) Tennessee 3-0·2 427 
8 (1)NotreDame 3·1 411 
9 (2) Florida State 4-1 385.5 
1 0 ( 11 ) Florida 5-0 375 
11 (13) Houston 4-0 248 
12 (10) Brigham Young 4-1 237 
13 (14) Illinois 3-1 226 
14 (12) usc 4-1 212.5 
15 (15) Colorado 4·1-1 196 
16 (16) Clemson 5-1 159 
17 (17) Washington 4-1 145 
18 ( nr) Georgia Tech 4-{) 87 
19(18)TexasA&M 4-1 70 
20 ( nr) Oregon 4-1 60 
Others receiving votes: Indiana 
22, Arizona 21.5, Wyoming 9.5, 
Stanford 9.5, Penn State 3, Texas 
3, Michigan State 2, Toledo 2, 
Ohio State 2, Northern Illinois 2, 
Iowa 1. 
Schools participating in this 
week's poll: Florida, Oregon State, 
Utah, Colorado, Clemson, Michigan, 
Kentucky, Penn, Illinois, Ball 
State, Miami, West Virginia, USC, 
Wisconsin, Arizona, Texas, Kansas, 
Alabama, Brown, Columbia, N.C. 
State, Nebraska, Indiana, Notre 
Dame, Penn State, Oregon, Stanford, 
Arizona State, Virginia, Duke. 
tAMERICAN WCANCER 
'.SOCIETY® 

Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
-

Don't let this happen to you. Sign up now for an interview with the National Security Agency. We're looking for Spring '91 and Fall '91 graduates interested in full-time employment. It could be the opportunity you've been looking for. 
NSA is the Department of Defense agency charged with foreign Signals Intelligence, domestic Information Security, and overall Operations Security 
for the U.S. Government. It's an important, exdting mission that lends itself to some unique job opportunities. So don't miss out on 

National 
what could be the chance 
Security
of a lifetime. Meet with 
Agency
NSA. We're coming to The OpportUnities of a Lifetime
campus. 

NSA INTERVIEW SCHEDULE The National Security Agency will be on campus November 27th 

-
Interviewing seniors majoring In electrical engineering, computer science, mathematics, and Slavic, Middle Eastern and Asian languages. Summer positions are also available for juniors. 
An rqual opportumty ernpoyl'r [5 




The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 
ND doesn't allow a goal in Irish Soccer Classic 
Notre Dame women's soccer splits two weekend matches in Invitational 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
Going into the past weekend, 
the Notre Dame men's soccer 
team was in a deep funk. 
The squad was on a four­

game winless streak, hadn't 
scored a goal in the last five 
periods of play. and was ques­
tioning itself at every turn. 
The Irish Soccer Classic, held this past weekend, helped Notre Dame start to erase those some of those problem spots. After defeating Ohio State 2-0 on Friday night, yesterday after­noon the Irish, now 3-6-3, tied 0-0 with an unbeaten Creighton team (10-0-2), and probably would have beaten the Blue Jays were it not for a contro­versial call. 
The Irish had controlled much of the game, but had not been able to get a shot past Creighton goalie Kevin Doyle, who came into the game with a sparkling 0.58 GAA. 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team split its two matches in the Notre Dame Invitational during the Weekend of Champions. 
On Friday, Dayton and Creighton battled to a 4-4 over­time tie in the first game, while Notre Dame spanked Lewis University 4-0 in the second game. 
Sunday was not so kind to the Irish. as they dropped a 2-0 heartbreaker to Creighton (8-3­1). Dayton (4-4-2), which will face Notre Dame (9-3-1) in the MCC tournament, trounced Lewis (3-7-1) 5-0 in the early game. 
"I think we played well against Lewis," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Early in the game we tried to kick too long, but I thought that we adjusted well and played some shorter balls. I'm satisfied with the way we played." 
All four of the Irish goals came in the first half of a game that was played almost entirely in front of the Lewis goal. Notre Dame's first score came at the 28:18 mark, as Mary Kate Kelly took an assist from Susie Zilvitis and quickly hit a shot. 
-
"Mary Kate Kelly has really come on lately," remarked Petrucelli. "She really caused problems for them on the right side. Early on she was concen­trating on defense, but now her attacking is coming on. She re­ally has gotten her whole game 
together."
Soon after Kelly's goal, Marianne Giolitto drilled a shot into the opposite corner of the net. Stephanie Porter got the assist. 
Yet perhaps the most incred­ible goal of the day came off the foot of senior co-captain Mimi Suba. Marianne Giolitto, who had been awarded an indi­rect kick after a Lewis foul, passed the ball to Suba, who had positioned herself 20 yards from the net. Suba one-touched a chip shot over the hands of the leaping Lewis goalie and below the crossbar for a 3-0 Irish lead. 
Stephanie Porter finished the scoring for Notre Dame with. an unassisted goal in the clos­ing minutes of the first half. 
Notre Dame outshot Lewis 18-0. Key to this defensive ef­
-
fort was the play of freshman Andrea Kurek, who completely shut down the attack of Lewis. scoring machine Ann Stenholt, 
But with the Irish counter-at­tacking a Blue Jays' drive, Mitch Kern lofted a crossing shot from very close to the left end-line. The ball crossed over the goal to the right side, where Brendan Dillman was waiting, alone, to head-in the shot. 
Seconds after Dillman had scored, and well after Kern had hit the cross, the linesman dis­allowed the goal, claimin~ that the ball was out-of-bounds. 
The official never indicated at what point the ball had left the field of play, but subsequent replays indicated that the ball had never, at any point, gone out of bounds. 
Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli wasn't dwelling on the missed call, though. 

"He was closer to it than I was," said Berticelli. "If he says its out, then I guess it was out." 
1 Both teams came out fighting in the first half, but Creighton ended up with the first-half ad­
vantage. 
who came into the game with 15 goals and two assists. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame and Creighton struggled to a 0-0 halftime tie before the visiting Lady Jays pulled away with a victory. 

In the second half, Creighton made use of two quick scores to send the Irish down to de­feat. At the 56:00 mark, Lady Jay midfielder Tacy Rayburn snaked her way through the Irish defense and beat Notre Dame goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga, who otherwise enjoyed a spectacular day. 
Only two minutes later, Creighton forward Jill Thurman scored on a fast break, seemingly taking Notre Dame by surprise. In the course of two short minutes, the Irish were sent reeling. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~• 

No really, 
you do look 
21, really, and... 

[}{]<ID[p.>lP->W ~~ ~lro@l<IDW 
~@a a~ 

ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~===============================================R 1990 Cora{ 1Joc£ge Irisli ~a[[ C[assic 
9\[ptre r.Dame vs. Jl.ir !Jorce 
rrfturstiay, Octo6er 11, 7:00pm :Fritiay, Octo6er 12, 8:30pm Covefeskj Statfium, Soutfi 'Bern£ 

Tree bus transportation 


Leaving tfie :Main (jate starting at 6:00 rrfturstiay am£ from (jate 10 fo[fowing tfie Pep iJ(fz.{{y :Jri.tiay 
Irisli t.Base6a[[ is 6acl(j 
•'.Tree admission witli r.B{zu and (jofti Card 

Peter Gulli 
The Blue Jays got off nine shots in the first stanza. forc­ing Irish goalkeeper Peter Gulli to make eight saves in the half. 
Notre Dame came out fired up for the second period, and took control of play for most of the rest of the game. 
Creighton goalie Kevin Doyle kept the Jays in the game, with 10 saves in the second half, in­cluding three remarkable saves in a period of 30 seconds. 
Marianne Glolltto 
Yet Notre Dame maintained its composure and its intensity, continuaiiy battling to even up its key central-region matchup. Creighton goalie Denise Zaver made save after impressive save, frustrating the Irish ef­forts. 
Two strong Irish scoring chances both fell short. Zaver 

After a deflected header. the ball was cleared to the middle where it was passed to Kenyon Meyer. Meyer rocketed a shot on goal, but Doyle knocked it away, right to Danny Stebbins who lifted his shot just over the crossbar. 
Although both teams chal­lenged the goal in the remaining minutes of regulation, neither team had a solid chance to score until overtime. 
With 2:52 left in overtime, the Blue Jays had a free kick about 15 yards from goal. Creighton's Brian Kamler hit the shot over the wall. towards the upper left corner of the net. Gulli made an incredible save, stepping to­wards the ball, jumping and knocking the ball out of the way. 
SportsChannel America taped Sunday's game with Creighton, and will air it at a yet-to-be-de­termined time. 
The Irish started out their 
weekend with a 2-0 victory over 
made an impressive save of a powerful shot by Marianne Giolitto, robbing the Irish of a goal. Later, Tasha Strawbridge crossed a perfect pass to 
Giolitto, who was camped in front of the Creighton net. However, Giolitto's head shot sailed over the net, as the Lady Jays once again dodged a bul­let. 
LOST HORIZONS IMPORTS Handmade Crafts From Nepal and Tibet 
Beautiful Handknit Sweaters Colorful Handwoven Cotton & 
lVoolBags Traditional Tibetan Clothing Unique Tibetan & NepaliJewelry 
Sale held in Dooley Room at LaFortune Student Union 
8AM-5PM 
Octoher 8th -12th 
Sponsored by Student Activities 
"I'm obviously disappointed that we lost," stated Petrucelli. "I don't really feel like we were outclassed by Creighton or that we were beaten by a better team. I think they did a couple of things that we couldn't han­dle, such as the long throw in. Lori Fickenscher killed us with her long throw-ins and speed." 

the  Ohio  State  Buckeyes  in  
front  of  1,112  fans  Friday  
night.  

Both teams started out a little sluggishly in the first half, but the Irish were able to pick up their level of play in the second stanza, and knocked two shots in midway through the half. 
Brendan Dillman lined a shot at Buckeye goalkeeper Todd Wilson, which Wilson deflected up into the air. Kenyon Meyer was there to take advantage of the deflection, heading it into the goal at the 67:02 mark to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Just a 1:53 later, Irish co­captain Danny Stebbins scored his third goal of the season on a breakaway. After his charge forced the goalie to come out and attack him, Stebbins slid the ball into the net before the keeper could do anything about it. 
From that point on, no one really challenged to score, and Notre Dame hung on for its third win of the season, 2-0. 


Monday, October 8, 1990 The Observer page 21 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Hamill to skate at Joyce ACC 
The Notre Dame men's basketball program will bn holding walk-on tryouts for the 1990-91 basketball team 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
practice, doing school figures today at 7 p.m. in the JACC Auxiliary Gymnasium. 
Assistant Sports Editor and only a couple of hours do­ing free skating." The Sailing Club will meet Tuesday, Oct. 9th. The 
The professional skaters Nowadays, says Hamill, the meetings are no longer held in the boathouse. Starting this 
tonight in "Irish on Ice," an ice­athletes enjoy a greater public Wednesday they will be held in Room 205A O'Shag. All 
skating exhibition to benefit the awareness of amateur skating, members should attend. 
Notre Dame hockey team, will and a lot of that has to do with represent a wide variety of what has come before them. NVA -Campus Badminton. Double elimination 
skating talents and styles. "Just about everybody has singles and doubles tournament. Register at NVA by Oct. 
To 1976 gold medalist heard of Christopher Bowman 10. 
Dorothy Hamill, it will also and Jill Trenary. In my day, I represent the evolution of pro­was second in the world cham­NVA CO-Ree Basketball. Entry deadline Oct. 10. 
fessional skating in a micro­pionship level the year before Five team leagues consisting of five women and five men on 
cosm. the Olympics and nobody knew a team. A fee of $20 is due with roster. Call NVA for 
For a person like Hamill, 14 me. There's a greater aware­complete rules. 
years after whizzing into the in­ness of the amateurs now than ternational sporting scene Dorothy Hamill there was then. complete with pretty looks and today, it's kind of a shame that "I think a lot of us have paved
ND volleyball loses three 
a revolutionary haircut, skating they don't have the experience the way for the kids nowadays.
has been a vehicle for a career of traveling with a professional I think it'll be easier for them. By MIKE KAMRADT Oklahoma ran off three in many different forms. It pro­show because it really teaches Peggy Fleming opened a lot of Sports Writer straight points to win. vided her with international you an awful lot about what doors for me. In the same way,
It seemed as if the Irish might fame when she won the gold in being a performer and a tour­I think we've opened the doors 
After a particularly embar­finally pull one off in the second Vienna, Austria, in 1976; it ing athlete is like." for the Debbie Thomases, the rassing loss last year, Chicago game. It was close the entire 
gave her a trade in which to So when Hamill shares time Jill Trenarys. And they'll con­Bear head coach Mike Ditka way, but the Sooners eventually earn a living; and it helped her on the ice with younger skating tinue to open doors for the next said, "We may not win another took a 14-11 lead. The Irish to learn about what being a 
professionals like 1990 World ones. And that's good."
game all year." fought back to tie at 14, but performer is about. Champion Jill Trenary, 1989 Viewers tonight will see Maybe those would be the didn't have enough as they fell 
"I'm one of the last of the U.S. men's figure skating Hamill's finesse and Bowman's sentiments of Maria Perez, who 16-14. Game three was never warhorses that have been out champion Christopher acrobatics, Hamill's precisioncoached the women's volleyball close. 
there and really toured on the Bowman, and two-time na­and Trenary's flair. With the team this weekend. That is, if Chris Choquette and Alicia road," says Hamill. "It's not a tional dance champions Susan stunt-oriented style of today'sshe talked to the press. Perez Turner played well as each glamorous life. It's the life of a Wynne and Joseph Druar, there skaters Hamill sometimes won­
wasn't in a talking mood and chalked up 11 kills. Choquette gypsy." 
will be a difference in skating ders about how she would fare with good reason; the Irish had a .345 hit percentage while 
Hamill received this awaken­experiences as wide as Lake if she were skating in the '90s. 
were spanked at home for the Turner had a .303. 
ing as a result of her five-year Placid. 
second consecutive weekend, It did get worse. It took contract with Ice Capades, "Ice skating has changed "Obviously I'd be doing things losing matches to Oklahoma, 
Hofstra only 50 minutes to dis­signed just a few months after completely," says Hamill. "It's a different because of the
Hofstra and LSU. pose of the Irish. The Irish had her success in the Olympics. She whole different sport. changes in the sport, but IThe Irish lost 15-12, 16-14, negative hit percentages in 
was only 19 then, and the con­Emphasis is really on athletics think I'd have the same drive15-6 Friday night against the games one and three. They had stant schedule of performances and gymnastics, and I think and the same competitiveness
Sooners, were beaten 15-4, 15­only four and two kills respec­helped her put her skating suc­that's good. It's just different. and passion for it," says
11, 15-5 by Hofstra Saturday tively in those games. The Irish cess in perspective. 
Compulsory figures are out Hamill. "I just think that timesmorning and finished off the recorded only 12 digs and five "In some ways," says Hamill, now, and that's where I used to have changed, and that priori­
weekend with by falling to blocks for the match. 
"the kids who are competing spend my seven hours a day of ties are different now."
17th-ranked Louisiana State LSU did much of the same to 15-5, 15-5, 15-0. 
Irish taking 53 minutes to take The Irish have now lost six care of business. The Irish ex­
Virginia wins ND Invitational
consecutive matches and 17 perienced the ultimate humila­straight games. The Irish tion in getting skunked 15-0 in By RICHARD MATHURIN finished with 67 points. Beni not as well as we're capable of looked like they may break the the third game of the match. Sports Writer Gras of Virginia took the top running. We were sixth in the 
string of losses Friday night. In "We had two days of practice honors with a time of 18:31.5. field last year, which was The Virginia Cavaliers over­
the spirit of last weekend, the and we had a different lineup," She was closely followed by nowhere as good as this year's 
Irish fell behind early in game said Perez. "We're going to powered a group of 15 teams Western Ontario's Brenda field, so we made an improve­one Friday. Down 7-1, the Irish make mistakes. Considering all to capture the Notre Dame Arbuckle who finished with a ment," said Irish coach Tim made a comeback. The nar­that happened, it could have Invitational Cross Country time of 18:33.1. Connelly. rowed the gap to one at 10-9 been worse." meet. They finished with the Notre Dame finished fourth A nice surprise for the Irish and then caught the Sooners at· The Irish can only hope low score of 48 points to easily in the meet with a total of 141 was the performance of fresh­
12. However, they didn't have Loyola and Marquette are more outdistance their nearest com­points. Junior Amy Blaising man Patty Villarreal from La enough to pull off the victory as petitor Western Ontario, who was the top Irish finisher com­Jolla, California, who had not

Details 
magazine 

WE DARE You To TELL Us WHAT's ON YouR MIND! 
DETAILS IS NOW A MODERN MEN'S MAGAZINE, AND WE'RE LOOKING FOR A FEW OF YOU UNDERGRADUATE MEN TO TELL US WHAT YOU WANT, WHAT YOU NEED, WHAT YOU'RE TIRED OF, AND WHAT YOU WANT MORE OF. 
JOIN THE DETAILS MAGAZINE COLLEGE PANEL AND YOU'LL RE­CEIVE SURVEYS FROM COMPANIES WHO VALUE YOUR TASTES AND OPINIONS, PRODUCT SAMPLES FROM COMPANIES WHO WANT TO 
TALK TO COLLEGE MEN, AND MANY OTHER SURPRISES, INCLUDING A PRE-FINALS CARE PACKAGE! 
WE'LL START YOU OFF WITH A FREE CASSETTE TAPE CALLED MUSIC MATTERS, A SPECIAL COMPILATION OF NEW RELEASES FROM RECORD COMPANIES. 
JOINING IS SIMPLE (AND FREE!). JUST CALL THE NUMBER BELOW OR FILL OUT THIS FORM AND MAIL IT NOW. 
~--------------~oAreU?-------------­
NAME 
UNIVERSITY 

CURRENT ADDRESS ---·--------­
CITY/STATE/ZIP 

MAJOR ____________
CLASS OF __ AGE ___ 
RETURN TO: DETAILS MAGAZINE, 632 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. NY 10012 ATT: COLLEGE PANEL 
OR CALL: 212 · 598 3729 
ing in 18th with a time of been a factor in the Irish's pre­
19:27.4. She was followed by vious meets. She finished a senior Jenny Ledrick, who strong 28th in the meet with a placed 22nd with a time of time of 19:49.7. 
19:35.7. "She's doing a great job. 
"I thought we ran well, but She's more comfortable with herself. She now feels that she can run in these meets," said
ISL'Y IT Connelly of Villarreal. "Our goal is top ten in our
FOR district. We were eighth and probably moved up a couple ofh'flll· l ,\USE" places after the meet," said 
Connelly. 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE
C./) U-J PRESENTS 
~ ~ 
0 
U-J
02 -< ~TROJAN 
~ 

1-­
(/') 0 
0::: WOMEN
z 0 BY EURIPIDES 
0 ~ 

WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM DIRECTOR FRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM REGINALD BAIN 
SAT.. OCT. 6 8:10PM SET & LIGHTS 
SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM 
~ KEVIN DREYER 
(/') WED., OCT. 10 8:10PM 
COSTUMES
THURS., OCT. 11 8:10PM RICHARD DONNELLY 
~ FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM 0'-SAT., OCT. 13 8:10PM STAGE MANAGER l SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM TONY BOSCO 
0 

TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SEN CIT. WED TIIU & SUN
0'­

AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
-
0'-

LAfORTUNETICKETo"FFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA 
~ 

ORDERS CALL 239-8128 

page 22 The Observer Monday, October 8, 1990 
Irish men lose match but gain valuable experience 
By HUGH MUNDY at the 1989 NCAA 
merous impressive perfor­thused about the meet's ener­Sports Writer Championships, boasted a stel­mances as well, highlighted by gized environment. lar squad of All-Americans led Rini's second place fmish in the "Everything about the meet From the outset of Friday by 1989 NCAA backstroke 200 meter butterfly. helped me swim faster," he 
afternoon's men's swim meet champion and world record The Irish captain was pleased said. between Notre Dame and the holder Jeff Rouse. with his race but was more en­Outstanding performers for highly regarded Stanford The Irish countered with an thusiastic about the team as a the Cardinal included Eddie Cardinal, the atmosphere at impressive contingent of its whole. Parente, a winner in the 200 Rolfs Aquatic Center was one of own, featuring senior captain "The entire meet was great butterfly and the 200 freestyle, cameraderie over competition. and 1989 most valuable per­for us as a team,"Rini com­and Alex Kostich, who grabbed 
Both teams looked more to­former Brian Rini. mented. "The excitement gen­top honors in the 500 and wards gaining experience and Welsh, however, was uncon­erated by the crowd created a 1,000-yard freestyle events. enjoyment from the early sea­cerned with comparisons of in­championship atmosphere and Welsh hopes the momentum son match up than establishing dividual times or performances. helped everyone swim well." gained in Friday's meet will a fierce rivalry. "The purpose of this meet is Otber solid performances remain with the Irish through­
Tim Welsh

As a result, the 117-80 not which team swims faster," were handed in by Jim Doran, out the season and views the 
Cardinal victory did not noted Welsh. "Notre Dame and third in the 1,000-yard entire experience as invaluable dampen the spirits of Irish Stanford are two outstanding 400 medley relay in a pool freestyle, Colin Cooley, fourth in for both schools. coach Tim Welsh. universities who came together record 3:26.76. the 200 breaststroke, and a 
"It was wonderful competing to promote the sport of swim­The Cardinal dominance con­surprising third-place finish in "We'll look to the positive en­with one of America's premier ming." tinued throughout the meet as the 200-yard freestyle by ergy generated through this swim teams,"said Welsh. "The In the meet's first event, Stanford copped first place in freshman David Nathe. meet to help our training and score really had no relevance." Stanford lived up to its ad­each of the eleven events. Nathe, swimming in his first racing for the remainder of the 
Stanford, which finished third vanced billing, capturing the Notre Dame turned in nu-meet for the Irish, was also en-season," Welsh remarked. 
Stanford women break four pool records in defeat of ND 
By RICK SALVINO Stanford's 400-yard medley re­said that her coach felt that she that we demonstrated today, I said. "I did exceptionally well Sports Writer lay team to a time of 3:54.00, did very well for this stage of feel that we'll do very well." for this time of the year. It was which was also a pool record. the season. In addition,-Welsh stated that great to have a team of Stanford's caliber swim here at
When the Stanford women's She also set a record in the Despite the great performance several Irish women had per­swim team entered the Rolfs 200-yard individual medley, by Stanford, Notre Dame coach sonal best times on Friday. Notre Dame, and the whole Aquatic Center Friday, Notre with a time of 4:52.43. Pam Tim Welsh had nothing but One very bright spot for Notre weekend, in general, was a su­Dame coach Tim Welsh knew Minthorn finished with a time praise for his own team. Dame was sophomore Tanya per experience." not to expect a victory from his of 4:52.43 in the 500-yard "This was a wonderful experi­Williams, who captured the team. Stanford finished second freestyle to claim the Cardinal's ence, in which we learned some only Irish victory of the meet. Williams hopes to return to 
Her time of 2:05.08 in the 200-the NCAAs this year, and she is
at last year's NCAA Champion­final record. valuable lessons. The gap be­ships, and is led by Olympian Janet Evans also swam on her tween their team and ours is a yard butterfly was not only looking forward to the de­Janet Evans and world class team's winning 400-yard big one, but we got to see first good enough to win, but it also manding schedule that the Irish performer Summer Sanders. freestyle relay team, as well as hand what it takes to be the established a new pool record women have to face. 
Not surprisingly, then, finishing third in the 200-yard best," Welsh commented. "Most in that event. Williams also Stanford defeated the Irish breaststroke. "My performance important though, is that we performed well in the 200-yard For now though, Williams and 111-85 in their meet. In doing in the 1,000 was very good," enjoyed the experience im­breaststroke, in which she fin­the rest of her teammates will so, the Cardinal women broke she said, "and I swam well in mensely." ished just two seconds off of concentrate on preparing for four pool records. Leading the the 200 breaststroke, in which I As for the upcoming season, the lead. She appears on track the start of the season. This record-breakers was Evans, wanted to work on my stroke." coach Welsh is very optimistic. for another superb season, as past weekend certainly showed whose time of 9:41.74 in the Evans' top priority right now "This is the best we have ever she attempts to return to the the Irish what they will have to 1000-yard freestyle, shattered is to prepare for the upcoming swam in October," he said. "We NCAA Tournament next spring. do achieve the national promi­the old pool record by 29 sec­World Championships, in hopes have a very demanding sched­"I was very happy with my nence which they are looking to onds. In addition, Sanders led of performing well there. She ule, but with the aggressiveness swimming today," Williams gain. 
i ~CIDIPIBJCIDIDCIDffiJE~~ i 
! THIS IS THE OPPORUNITY YOU ! ! HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR! ! 
: WE ARE LOOKING FOR AN ENTHUSIASTIC : : INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEARCHING FOR A ! ~HALLENGING OPPORUNITY AND WHO WOULD LIKE : :TO GET INVOLVED IN THE EXCITEMENT OF JUNIOR : : PARENTS WEEKEND. : 
: IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR :! SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON FOR ! : JPW-APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN STUDENT : ACTIVITIES. 
-
. ••• DEADLINE: • OCTOBER 12, 1990
•
• 

'··························································· 

~-··---­
Monday, October 8, 1990 The Observer page 23 
•

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
7 p.m. Presentation/reception for all 2nd year MBA students Interested In discovering career opportunities with Leo Burnett Company. Upper Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Monday 
4 p.m. "Revolution on Campus," by Prof. Jeffrey Hart, Dartmouth College, Hesburgh library Lounge. Sponsored by Jacques Maritain Center. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag Lunch) "Cuba and the New World Economy: The Challenge of Cuba's Integration to Latin America and the Caribbean," Pedro Monreal, Faculty Fellow. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
12:10 p.m. "Basic Car Care 1," Marty Ogren, Chief Me­chanic, University of Notre Dame. Transportation Center (Maintenance Building). Sponsored by Year of Women. 
12:15 p.m. Second in a Six-part Series-Understanding and Managing Family Resources., "Insurance Review and Evaluation," Joyce Wegs. Equitable Financial Companies. Room 121, Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by the Hesburgh li­brary and the Notre Dame Accountancy Department and the Year of Women. 
MENUS 
' 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 


5& Thievish Dickens lad 59 Augury 60 Crust &1 Roof edge 
&2 Shea nine &3 Places for chapeaux 
64 Pub quaffs 
DOWN 
1 Italian wine 

center 2 Evening dress 3 Work on galleys 4Jutlander 5 Six-outs unit 6 Tea or water 
adjunct 7 N African bigwig 

a Pitcher Walter Johnson, e.g.: Abbr. 9 Thirst quencher 
10 Rapid Robert of 
ACROSS 
1 Like Methuselah 

5 "-stranger, and ye took me in": Matt. 25:35 
10 Casino game 

14 Stadium drink 
15 Appointed 
1& Land west of 
Nod 
17 Airfield sight 
20 Cabinet post 

21 Sailors' patron saint 22 Hostelry 23 Emit amplified 
light 25 Seaport on We Island 29 Ornamental stone 
33 Millay's "­Figs From· Thistles" 
34 He directed "Network" 35 Debussy's "Air de-" 
3& Amphibian also called hellbender 
40 Drop a pop fly 41 Womanizers 42 Baseball's Gus 
or Buddy 43 Cincinnati managers? 45 Pieces of 
pottery 47 Callers of K's 48 That ship 49 Bullets for a G.l. 51 Most ancient 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~.,......-, 


pitching fame 
:7:+:'-+:'-:-B 11 First person 
~.:..+=.:~ 12Sitefor10 
~mJiill Across 

~ 13Single -=4-.:.+:..=+=~ 18 Hibernia 19 Spaniard's monetary unit 
23 Certain beans 
1
~~~~~~~ 24 "Full many-
IIIII ...":Gray ~=+:::+=-!,;,~,.;. 25 More F-+-=:-+:--+=-perspicacious ~~~+-.:.l 2& Blazing =+:::-+-,-+=:-~ 27 What a razor razes 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

:za A 27 Down on a farm 29 Bulrushes 30 Presbyter 31 Give way 32 Some noblemen 34 Praises highly 37 This is earth shaking 38 Kind of opera 39 Org. in which a Bird flies 44 We, the people 
SPELUNKER 

45 Nuances 46 Ruth, to old 
Yankee fans 48 Decipher 49 Alas! 50 Convene 51 Injured 52 Notion 53 Equal: Fr. 
54 Golfer Ballesteros 55 Very, in Versailles 56 Seaver or Lasorda 57 Blaster's material sa Lawyer's retainer 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 {75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


Women's Issues & Today's Catholic· Universities 

A lecture by Dr. Ronda Chervin 8 PM Hayes Healy Auditorium (Rm 122) Tuesday October 9 (FREE) SUB & Year of Women 
THE

~YEAR OF 
~DMEN) 
-.. 
-
• 
.. 
-

Sports
page 24 Monday, October 8, 1990 
Cardinal rally ends Irish home win streak at 19 
Stanford capitalizes on N D errors to score 36-31 victory 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Tommy Vardell's acrobatic flip into the end zone over a grounded Michael Stonebreaker Saturday represented more than just a touchdown. It was a pin that took the air out of one of the most robust collegiate football balloons anywhere. 
How much air escaped and how long it will take to refill are unknown. 
The touchdown. capping a 61-yard, 12-play final drive by the Stanford Cardinal that con­sumed 5:28, came with just 36 seconds left in the game, giving the Cardinal a 36-31lead which dumbfounded Irish football fans and left them bewildered about just what had happened. 
This is what happened: 

•It 
made Stanford (2-3) only the second team in history, and the first in 36 years, to defeat a top-ranked Irish team at Notre Dame Stadium (Purdue did it twice, in 1950 and 1954). 

•It 
ended a 19-game home winning streak by the Irish that 


-
extended back to 1986, when Penn State beat Notre Dame 24-19 on November 15. 
•It knocked Notre Dame out of the top position of the na­tional rankings, a spot the Irish had held since Miami lost to Brigham Young four weeks ago. 
"We have never lost faith in our team," said Stanford head coach Dennis Green, whose team suffered final-minute losses this season to Colorado and UCLA. "This was another good opportunity to play a good team under the most difficult of situations." 
Even so, Stanford's achieve­ment almost was nullified when the Irish, who have had a pen­chant for last-second victories this season, followed the Cardinal touchdown with a 4 7­yard march in 25 seconds to the Stanford 23. 
With six seconds left, quarterback Rick Mirer lofted a pass deep to tight end Derek Brown, who dove into the front corner of the end zone but could not hang on to the ball, 

Volleyball program in big trouble without Lambert 
Let me preface this by say­ing that I really don't care whether Art Lambert coaches the Notre Dame volleyball 
team. 

I like the public Art Lambert. I don't know the pri­vate one. 
The situation remained muddled over the weekend as Greg Guffey Lambert said he was finished Sports Editor coaching the Irish, but no one from the athletic department would confirm the move . 
• 


• 
"I will not be coaching the Notre Dame volleyball team anymore," Lambert said when reached at his home just before Friday night's match between the Irish and Oklahoma. 
Lambert's future had been uncertain since the players revolted early last week and boycotted at least one practice while Lambert was on a recruiting trip. Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal said Friday that he would probably issue a statement to­day. 
It seems a safe bet that Rosenthal will officially announce today that Lambert is finished coaching volleyball at Notre Dame. The situation has now -escalated to such a level that we should expect Rosenthal to give valid reasons for the coaching 
change. Assistant (head) (interim) coach Maria Perez guided the team over the weekend and she will 
letting a possible victory crash with the incompletion. 
"I was stretched out, but I had the ball in my hands," said Brown. "My hands hit the ground and then so did the ball. I should have had it." 
Few would have thought that it would come to that, as the Cardinal did not gain a first down until 8:23 into the second quarter and were trailing the Irish 24-7 with 6:30 remaining in the first half. 
But on a day in which all­purpose man Raghib Ismail was out with a deep thigh bruise, the Irish fumbled three punts, presented a lax coverage scheme for sharpshooting Cardinal quarterback Jason Palumbis, and failed to execute on crucial plays that could have swung the game around. 
"I don't know if I've ever been in a loss that was this difficult," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "The three turnovers on punts were absolutely 


The Observer/Ken Osgood Irish receiver Tony Smith, who had five catches for 78 yards, raises 
see LOSS 1 page 17 his arms in jubilation after one of his two touchdown receptions. 
It's only a game, but still. .. How did Notre Dame lose? 
Notre Dame football losses have become such a rarity during the Lou Holtz regime that the campus collapses into a state of shock when the Irish do stumble. 
The alumni leave soon after the game ends, and the students, left all by themselves on a campus which is dead silent, drink to excess and torment each other with that elusive question. How did this happen? 
First of all, it seems that Notre Dame students take an Irish loss a bit too seri­ously. It's only a game, folks. It seems a bit childish to cry over something as trivial as a football game. But let's forget about 
--------­

that and get to the question you have all been asking. 
So how did the Irish lose? 

For starters, Stanford is a much better team than most people think. This was virtually the same Cardinal squad which threat­ened to upset the Irish last year in Palo Alto but finished on the short end of a 27-17 score. This Notre Dame team, on the other hand, is quite far behind last season's squad, particularly on the offensive line and in the secondary. 
And then there were the turnovers. With Raghib Ismail out with a deep thigh bruise, returning punts became a nightmare for the 
see HOW I page 17 
Splash! 
The Stanford men swim teams set numerous pool records at RoHs Aquatic Center. See page 22. 
Superskaters 
Dorothy Hamill and Jill Trenary will be among the celebrities skating to benefit NO hockey. See page 21. 
Soccer 
The Irish men's soccer team went 1-0-1 and the women's squad spnt over the weekend. See page 20. 

probably call the shots for the remainder of the sea­son. If that is the case, Perez must learn that she will be in the headlines. 
This means that she cannot refuse to answer questions about only the match like she did Friday night or answer one question about the match and then exercise her "constitutional right" to not talk to the press like she did Saturday night. Can you imagine what would have happened if Lou Holtz had refused to answer questions after Saturday's loss to Stanford? 
If Lambert does not return to the bench, this situ­ation will set a dangerous precedent. In a way, it will say that the team is bigger and more powerful than the coach. At times last weekend, it seemed like the inmates were running the jail. 
I forget who it was, but someone raised an inter­esting point over the weekend. Is it the job of the athletic department to make sure the players and ·coaches maintain a good relationship on and off the court, thus making each happy? Or is it the job of the athletic department to field a competitive team with the best coach possible who can win matches against a tough schedule? Or do the two go hand in hand? 
What was so unbearable about Art Lambert that caused this coaching change midway through the season? Was it something that no one could have taken action about in the past six years? These are questions that need to be answered. 
The players seemed happy in the matches over the weekend, but they didn't score a point in the third 
game of their Saturday night loss to LSU. It was almost as if the 17th-ranked Tigers were trying to prove a point. 
It's hard to blame the players when the athletic department will not issue a statement saying who is coaching the team. Everyone is in a tough situation in this instance. 
The timing of this event was also unfortunate, helping to turn the Weekend of Champions into the Weekend of Chaos. It transformed what were sup­posed to be positive headlines into negative ones. 
This is a big story because the volleyball program is one of only two Olympic sports programs (women's basketball being the other) that is fully funded by the athletic department. And right now, it is a program in disarray. 
It's hard to believe that Notre Dame has not lost a major recruiting edge. What could anyone possibly tell the high school seniors with whom Lambert talked earlier in the week? There is no coach but we still want you to play here anyway. 
Jn 1988, Lambert coached the team to its first­ever NCAA Tournament berth. With that, he was able to recruit some of the best talent in the nation and also schedule some of the top teams in the country. With the schedule the Irish are facing, something must be done in order for Notre Dame to compete in those matches. 
The season appears lost. The program is still sal­vageable. 










